
Nov-Dec 1976 
vol 2, no 6 


the magazine of recreational and educational computing 


Austria Sch 32.00 
Belgium BF 70.00 
Canada $1.50 
Denmark Kr 11.00 
Finland Mk 7.00 
France F 9.00 
Germany DM 4.50 
Great Britain £ 1.00 
Greece Dr 65.00 
Holland Dfl 5.00 
Italy L 1500 
Norway Kr 10.00 
Portugal Esc 55.00 
Spain Ptas 120.00 
Sweden Kr 8.00 
Switzerland SF 4.50 
USA $1.50 


$1.50 



Beyond BASIC 


Games: Poster, 
Two-to-Ten, LEM 


Computer 


Techniques 


Computer 
Literacy Quiz 


Computers and 



Equipment Reviews: 

Tektronix 4051, 

HP 25, Odyssey Game 


Computer Stores 


Luehrmann: Should the Computer 
Teach the Student or Vice Versa? 














































































































































































































































































The small wonder 




ROT® ALTAIF BSD 


Measuring just 11" wide x 11" deep x 5" high, and weighing a 
mere 7 pounds, the Altair™ 680b is a complete, general-purpose 
computer. 

The secret to this revolutionary , small computer is its CPU 
board. This double-sided board fits along the bottom of the Altair 
case and plugs directly into the front panel board. It contains 
the new 6800 microprocessor, 1,024 bytes of RAM memory, a 256 
byte PROM monitor, provisions for 768 bytes of additional PROM 
or ROM, and a single Interface port with a Motorola ACIA serial 
interface adapter which can be configured either RS-232 or TTY. 
A five level Baudot interface option is also available. 

The Altair 680b can be programmed from front panel switches, 
or it can be interfaced to a video display terminal, or teletype¬ 
writer. Three additional circuit boards can be plugged inside the 
Altair 680b for further memory and interface expansion. The first 
of these boards is a 16K static RAM memory board. 

Software already developed includes Altair 680 BASIC with 
all the features of the 8K BASIC previously developed for the 
Altair 8800. These include Boolean operators, the ability to read 
or write a byte from any I/O port or memory location, multiple 
statements per line, and the ability to interrupt program execution 
and then continue after the examination of variable values. This 
software takes only 6.8K bytes of memory space and a copy is 
included free with the purchase of the Altair 680 16K memory 
board. 

Other software includes a resident two pass assembler.(also 
free with 16K board) The Altair 680b is also compatible with 
Motorola 6800 software. 

The Altair 6 80b is ideal for hobbyists who want a powerful 

computer system at an economic price. Altair 680b owners qualify 

NOTE: Altair is a trademark of NUTS. Inc. 


for membership in the Altair Users Croup, and like other Altair 
owners, they receive a complimentary subscription to Computer 
Notes and complete factory support. 

PRICES: 

Altair 680b kit with complete, easy-to-understand assembly man¬ 


ual, operator's manual, and programming manual.$466 

Assembled Altair 680b.$625 

Aitair 680b Turnkey model kit.$395 

Expander Card 680MB (required to expand 680).$ 24 

Altair 680BSM 16K static RAM board kit with 680 BASIC.$685 

Altair 680 BASIC when purchased separately.$200 

Baudot option.$ 42 


MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY 


□ Enclosed is a check for $_ 

□ BankAmericard «_or Master Charge *_ 

□ Altair b80b □ Kit □ Assembled □ Other (specify) 

enclose $8 for postage and handling (Continental U.S. Others subject to quote) 

□ Please send free information package. 

NAME_ 

ADDRESS_ 

CITY-STATE & ZIP_ 

IjuOIjS® 

2450 Alamo SE/Albuquerque, NM 87106, 505-243-7821 


Price, specifications subject to change. Please allow up to 60 days for delivery. 
























alphanumeric display 
generated with 
Dazzle-Writer software 
(see below) 


Now your 
color TV can be your 
computer display terminal 


New capabilities, too 

Cromemco’s new computer/tv interface 
circuit lets you have a full-color computer 
display terminal for little more than a 
black-and-white terminal. 

The Cromemco interface also lets you do 
vastly more with your color terminal than 
you can do with ordinary black-and-whites. 

We call our interface the TV Dazzler®. It 
consists of two circuit boards that plug 
directly into your Altair 8800 or IMSAI 
8080 computer. 

Alphanumerics plus action, and graphics 

The Dazzler® maps your computer 
memory content onto your color tv screen 
in full color. 

That doesn’t mean just that you see 
alphanumerics in color. You can display any 
information in memory. And do so in color. 

LIFE in color 

You can display computer games or 
animated shows (rocket ships). What’s more, 
you can display business or technical 
graphics — multi-colored charts, graphs, 
histograms, educational material — all from 
computer memory. Even light shows. Not 


even the biggest computer manufacturers 
offer all this in color. 

Needs only 2K memory 
Technically, the Dazzler® scans your 
computer memory using direct-memory 
access (DMA). It formats each memory bit 
into a point on the tv screen to give a 
128 x 128-element picture. Only a 2K-byte 
computer memory is required (only 512 
bytes for a 32 x 32 picture). The quality of 
the pictures is evident in the photos. 

The Dazzler® output is a video signal 
that goes directly to the tv video amp or to 
the antenna terminal through an inexpensive 
commercially-available device. 

Inexpensive — and so much better 
You can see from the list below that the 
Dazzler® is little if any more in price than 
an ordinary b/w interface or tv typewriter. 
But it does so much more. 

Order now 

By mail or at your computer store 
If you’re into computers (or want to be), 


if you want to invent these beautiful 
displays or games, or to plot colorful 
material inexpensively at home or in 
business, the Dazzler® is for you. 

Not only is it reasonable, but it’s sold at 
computer stores from coast to coast. 

Or order directly by mail on your bank 
card. 


TV DAZZLER® (complete kit).$215 

TV DAZZLER® (fully assembled 

and tested) .$350 

SOFTWARE 

(punched paper tape with documentation) 

LIFE in full color . $15 

KALEIDOSCOPE in full color . $15 

DAZZLE-WRITER (for 

alphanumeric displays in color) .... $15 

DAZZLE-MATION (for computer¬ 
generated animated displays. $15 

TIC-TAC-T0E (you play 

the computer). $15 

Shipped prepaid if fully paid with order. 
California users add 6% sales tax. 

Mastercharge and BankAmericard accepted 
with signed order. 


Delivery: from stock for immediate shipment. 


CHASE • LIFE • DAZZLEMATION • DAZZLE-WRITER • TIC-TAC-TOE • KALEIDOSCOPE 

SOME SEQUENCES FROM CROMEMCO SOFTWARE 


Cromemco 

Specialists in computers and peripherals 

2432 CHARLESTON RD., MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA 94043 • (415) 964-7400 
















































scam 

fOPTUI 



Introducing SCELBAL, 
the new microcomputer 
language that’s simpler 
than machine language. 


A complete language for 
“8008’7“8080” systems 
including source listings, 
routines, flow charts and 
more! 


SCELBAL. scientific ELementary 
BAsic Language for “8008”/“8080” 
systems. A complete, illustrated program book. Routines. 
Techniques. Source Listings. Flow Charts. And more. 
Took several years to develop. Now yours for many years 
to come. First time that intimate details of higher level 
language has been offered for such a low price. Only $49! 
You get 5 Commands: SCR, LIST, RUN, SAVE, LOAD. 

14 Statements: REM, LET, IF . . . THEN, GOTO, FOR with 
STEP, END, INPUT, PRINT, NEXT, GOSUB, RETURN and 
optional DIM. 7 Functions: INT, SGN, ABS, SQ*R, RND, 
CHR, TAB. And, it runs in 8K and more. Here’s all the 
data needed to customize a high level language for your 
system ... at a fraction of the cost! 


Order your copy today! Get 
started advancing your system! 


$ 49 


PPd. 



Here’s SCELBI’s First Book of 
Computer Games for the 8008/8080. 
Action-packed. And fun. 

Try to beat the computer at its own game, 
i Here’s the first complete machine language 
\ computer manual for computer games to 
\ include source listings, flow charts, 
routines and more. Space Capture — You 
\ against the computer using “search and 
destroy” strategy to shoot down roaming 
alien spaceships in outerspace. Hexpawn 
— a mini-chess game that lets the 
computer make mistakes... but only 
once. Hangman — an updated version 
of the great kid game. Computer selects 
words at random from long, expandable 
list. Try to beat it in 8 moves or less. 
Illustrated. Fun extras to put your 
computer to challenging, competitive, 
fun use. m . . 4^95 

Order yours today! |*fr p pc |. 


SCELBI’s new microcomputer 
Game Book of Outer Space... 

Captain your own crusading starship 
against the logic of your “8008” or 
“8080”. You must destroy a random 
number of alien ships without running 
out of stardates, out of fuel, out 
of ammunition or out of the galaxy. 

Plan your mission. How much fuel is 
used for your warp factor? Don’t run 
into roaming stars that can damage your 
ship. Suddenly! Condition Red! Alien in 
sight! How big is he? Fire a phasor or 
torpedo! He’s damaged or destroyed. 

But, you’ve used valuable fuel. That’s 
just the beginning. A new game every 
time. Complete program book in machine 
language for 4K memory, including 
source listings, flow charts, routines, etc. 

Great intergalactic adventure and fun. 

Order “GALAXY” today! 14 95 PPd- 


G4MXY 



"‘"'‘UllVO |« 



“ 8080 ” 

SOFTWARE MANUALS 




Three new basic, com¬ 
plete “MUST” manuals! 
“8080” Assembler Pro¬ 
gram operates easily in 
4K bytes of RAM (includ¬ 
ing symbol table). Unique 
feature: How to accept 
mnemonics related to 
“8008” based machines 
on “8080”. Includes ail 
major routines, pertinent 
flow charts, com- 

§*? 4 - ' ' 3k * 


mented assembled listing 
and more. $17.95. 

“8080” Editor Program 
identical to “8008” 
Editor, with machine 
codes for “8080”. $14.95. 
“8080” Monitor Routines 
same functions as “8008” 
specifically developed 
to utilize expanded 


Prices shown for North American customers. 
Master Charge, Postal and Bank Money Orders 
preferred. Personal checks delay shipping 
up to 4 weeks. Pricing, specifications, 
availability subject to change without notice. 


14 95 It 98 

PPd- ppd. ppd. 

SAVE $5.35! BUY ALL 3 FOR ONi(i 

Now you can cook-up hot programs 
for your own “ 8080 ” 

The “Cook Book” even in¬ 
cludes a completely assem¬ 
bled floating point arithmetic 
program ... plus input/output 
processing for your basic I/O 
programming through inter¬ 
rupt processing. Code and 
numeric conversion routines. 
Real time programming. 

Search and sort routines. And 
many, many more finger-lickin’ 
goodies. Order your copy of 
Scelbi’s “8080” Software 
Gourmet Guide & Cook Book 
today. Only $9.95 ppd. 


Gobble up practical “how to” 
facts, including the description 
of “8080” instruction set. 
How to manipulate the "8080” 
stack. Flow charts and source 
listings. General purpose 
routines for multiple precision 
operation. Programming time 
delays for real time applica¬ 
tions. Random number gener¬ 
ators. And many other basic 
programming function 
comestibles. 


ICilB t CO WiiifUfe 

1322 Rear Boston Post Rd., Mitford, CT 06460 
t,UnMIUVPP IRHLl Telephone: 203/874-1573 









GPeatlve compating 



Publisher 

David H. Ahl 

Editor 

Burchenal Green 


In This Issue of 
CREATIVE COMPUTING 


ARTICLES 

Altair 8800: Getting a System Together — Kuzmack 25 
Beyond BASIC — Salisbury 28 

SNOBOL — Touretzky 32 

A Retail Computer Store — Dunion 33 

Disk Destruction Made Easy 38 

Should the Computer 

Teach the Student? — Luehrmann 42 

The Government Dinosaur — Winn 46 

Computers and Beauty — Sasaki 48 

Let Us First Make It — Taylor 52 

The Reactive Engine Paper — Winograd 58 

FICTION & FOOLISHNESS 

Pulling the Plug — Mosmann 39 

Poetry — Payack 41 

A Place For Today — Vitale 56 

A Day in the Life of Able Charlie — Pohl 60 

Little REM Writing Loop — Hadley 63 

REVIEWS AND RESOURCES 

Compleat Computer Catalogue 12 

Equipment Profiles: 

Tektronix 4051 — Gray 20 

Hewlett Packard HP 25 — Blodgett 22 

Odyssey Video Game — Ahl 24 

Great Wall 203 — Chang 65 

Buying a Used Teletype — Ahl 23 

Computer Store Directory 36 


Associate Editors 

John Lees, University of Missouri-Rolla 
Trish Todd, Brown University 
Steve North, County College of Morris 
Walter Koetke, Lexington High School 

Reviews Editors 

Peter Kugel, Boston College 

Stephen B. Gray, Amateur Computer Society 

Careers Editor 

Eleanor Corr, Keystone Jr. College 

Higher Education Editors 

A. Kent Morton, Dartmouth College 
Merl Miller, Matrix Publishers 

Humor Editor 

Jack Ludwig 

Technology Editors 

Thomas R. Kibler, Georgia State University 
Alan Salisbury, U.S. Army 


THINGS TO DO, COMPUTER GAMES 


What Is Computer Literacy? — Moursund 54 

Computer Aids to Teaching 

Geometry — Barnes & Stocker 66 

CMAPS: Choropleth Mapping Program — Cerny 72 

Heapsort — Chase 75 

A Comparison of Sorts — Grillo 76 

Days and Dates — Reagan 80 

Puzzles 82 

Progression Problems — Reeves 83 

Computer Games: 

Poster — Huntress 84 

LEM 86 

Two-to-Ten 88 


DEPARTMENTS 


Business Manager 

Carol R. Tick 


Notices 4 Editorial 10 

Input/Output 6 Reviews 89 


Nov-Dec 1976 
Volume 2, Number 6 

Consecutive Issue No. 12 Under 1,000,000 Circulation 

Creative Computing magazine is published bi-monthly by Creative 
Computing, P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 07960. (Editorial office: 20 
Lynnfield Drive, Morristown, NJ 07960) 

Subscriptions: Institutional 1-year $15, 3-year $40; Individual 1-year $8, 
3-year $21; Foreign 1-year $10, 3-year $27. Subscription orders, change of 
address, Form 3579 to Creative Computing, P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 
07960. 


MEMBER 



COMMITTEE OF SMALL MAGAZINE 
EDITORS AND PUBLISHERS 


THE COVER 


Second class postage paid at Morristown, New Jersey and at additional 
mailing offices. 

Copyright © 1976 by Creative Computing. All rights reserved. Reproduc¬ 
tion prohibited. Printed in USA. 


The cover illustration, "A City,” is by M. Sasaki and T. Sasaki. 
Original size is 23 x 19.5cm 2 . The computer used was a Facom 230- 
75. A description of the technique with additional illustrations can 
be found in the article "Computers and Beauty" on pp. 48-51. 


3 







Notices, etc. 


WINNER 

Dr. Thomas Dwyer, author of "The Art of Education: Blueprint for 
a Renaissance," in the last issue of Creative Computing, won the 
MOS Technology Inc.'s drawing at the Personal Computing 
Conference at Atlantic City. His prize was a free 4K Memory Board 
for a Kim-1. 

Moral: Submit your next exciting article to Creative Computing. 



SEMINAR 

E & L Instruments will hold seminars nationwide thatwillbe hands 
on sessions working with computers. One instructor will be John 
Titus, co-author of the Bugbook series. The $80.00 fee for two days 
is returned in $30.00 worth of Bugbooks and a $50.00 discount on 
any E & L microcomputer hardware. Contact: Richard Vuilleques, E 
& L Instruments, Inc., 61 First Street, Derby, CN 06418 


OUR FACE IS RED 

"How We Spent Our Summer Vacation," Sep/Oct 1976, pp 22- 
25 was not, in fact, written by a group of anonymous computer 
bums as our lack of a credit line might imply. Author was John 
Lees, assisted by Richard Freeman, Dennis Keats, and Susan 
Culwell. 


1977 National Computer Conference 
June 13-16 Dallas 

SPECIAL CALL FOR PAPERS 
IN 

PERSONAL COMPUTING 

The 1977 National Computer Conference will feature several 
events for personal computing enthusiasts including the Personal 
Computing Fair, exhibits of personal computing equipment by 
manufacturers, seminars and social events in addition to paper 
presentation. 

Two days of Personal Computing paper and panel presentations 
are being planned. Papers and panels in any subject of interest to 
personal computing enthusiasts are sought including 

• personal computer software, 

• hardware designs and trends for personal computing, 

• innovative applications of personal computing systems, 

• the influence of the personal computing movement on the 
computer industry and computer science education, 

• standards for personal computing products, 

• predictions of trends in personal computing. 

The 'll NCC will be the year's largest gathering of data 
processing users and computer professionals. Approximately 
30,000 people are expected to gather for the conference program 
of over 100 sessions plus the year's largest display of computer 
hardware, software, systems, and services featuring over 250 
exhibitors. 

1977 NCC Paper Guidelines 

Previously unpublished papers are solicited. Papers submitted for 
consideration must be in final form with all figures and tables, 
ready for typesetting. All papers will be refereed. Refereed and 
approved papers will be sent immediately to the printer, with no 
opportunity for author changes. The Conference Proceedings 
Editors reserve the right to edit all papers prior to publication or to 
request that the authors change them to meet AFIPS publication 
requirements. 

The material submitted should include: 


Looks like one catalogue entry, Sep/Oct 1976, pg 16, got all the 
mistakes: name of book should be "The Calculus With Analytic 
Geometry Handbook" (not Textbook), author is Jason R. Taylor (not 
Joseph), and price is $2.95 (not unknown). 




This 

Publication 
is Available in 

MICROFORM 



..from 

Xerox 

University 

Microfilms 

300 North Zeeb Rd., 
Ann Arbor, Mich. 48106 
(313) 761-4700 


PLEASE 
WRITE FOR 
COMPLETE 
INFORMATION 




1) Six copies of the paper. The paper should be a maximum of 
5,000 words. The submitted paper should be the final version— 
cleanly typed, double spaced on one side of the paper, ready for 
typesetting. Each page should be numbered and have the 
principal author's name on it. Submission of a paper implies 
guarantee by the author that all necessary approvals and 
clearances have been obtained. 

2) Six copies of a page containing a 150 word abstract, the 
Computing Reviews Classification and four to six keywords 
descriptive of the content of the paper. 

3) Three copies of a short biography of the presentor to be used in 
conference publicity and for introductions by the session 
chairman. 

Deadline for all submissions is December 1,1976. Authors will be 
notified before March 1, 1977 regarding the acceptance of their 
papers. 

Please send all submissions to the 'll NCC Program Chairman: 

Dr. Robert R. Korfhage 
Dept, of Computer Science 
Southern Methodist University 
Dallas, TX 75275 
214/692-3082 


4 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 















101 Baste- 

Computer Games 

David H. AM. At) anthology of games 
and »iimdatK)ru from Accy-Deucey to 
Ytlttnee, all in the BASIC language. 
Contains a complete listing, sample run, 
Mm a descriptive write-up of each game. 
Our most popular book! Large format, 
248 pp. $7,50 [6C] 


What to Do After 
You Hit Return 

Another collection of games and 
simulations—all in BASIC—including 
number guessing games, word games, 
hide-and-seek games, pattern games, 
board games, business and social science 
simulations and science fiction games. 
Large format. 158 pp. $6.95 [8A] 

Fun & Games 
with the Computer 

Ted Sage. “This book is designed as a 
text for a one-semester course in com¬ 
puter programming using the BASIC 
language. The programs used as il¬ 
lustrations and exercises are games 
rather than mathematical algorithms, in 
order to make the book appealing and 
accessible to more students. The text is 
well written, with many excellent sample 
programs. Highly recommended.” — the 
Mathematics Teacher 351 pp. $5.95 [8B] 

Game Playing 
With the Computer, 

2nd Ed. 

Donald Spencer. Over 70 games, puzzles, 
and mathematical recreations for the 
computer. Over 25 games in BASIC and 
FORTRAN are included complete with 
descriptions, flowcharts, and output. 
Also includes a fascinating account of the 
history of game-playing machines, right 
up to today’s computer war games. Lots 
ot “how-to” information for applying 
mathematical concepts to writing your 
own games. 320 pp. 1976 $14.95 [8S] 


Want to get up to speed 
quickly? 

Then try some of these best 
sellers from the Creative Com¬ 
puting Book Service. 


Creative Computing Magazine 

So you’ve got your own computer. Now what? Creative Computing is chock full 
of answers — new computer games with complete listings every issue, TV color 
graphics, simulations, educational programs,, how to catalog your LPs on 
computer, etc. Also computer stories by Asimov, Pohl, and others; loads of 
challenging problems and puzzles; in-depth equipment reports on kits, terminals, 
and calculators; reviews of programming and hobbyist books; outrageous 
cartoons and much more. Creative Computing is the software and applications 
magazine of personal and educational computing. Bi-monthly. 

1-year sub’n $8.00 [ 1 A], 3- years $21.00 [I B], sample copy $1.50 [1C] 

Problems For 
Computer Solution 

Gruenberger A Jaffray. A collection of 
92 problems in engineering, business, 
social science and mathematics. The 
problems are presented in depth and 
cover a wide range of difficulty. Oriented 
to Fortran but good for any language. A 
classic. 401 pp. $8.95 [7A] 


Problem Solving With 
The Computer 

Ted Sage. This text is designed to be used 
in a one-semester course in computer 
programming. It teaches BASIC in the 
context of the traditional high school 
mathematics curriculum. There are 40 
carefully graded problems dealing with 
many of the more familiar topics of 
algebra and geometry. Probably the 
most widely adopted computer text. 244 
pp. $5.95 [8J] 

A Simplified Guide to 
Fortran Programming 

Daniel McCracken. A thorough first text 
in Fortran. Covers all basic statements 
and quickly gets into case studies ranging 
from simple (printing columns) to 
challenging (craps games simulation). 
278 pp. $8.75 [7F] 


The Best of Creative 
Computing — Vol. 1 

David Ahl, ed. Staggering diversity of 
articles and fiction (Isaac Asimov, etc.), 
computer games (IS new ones with 
complete listings), vivid graphics, 15 
pages of “foolishness,” and comprehen¬ 
sive reviews of over 100 books. The book 
consists of material which originally 
appeared in the first 6 issues of Creative 
Computing (1975), all of which are now 
out of print. 524 pp. $8.95 [6AJ 


Understanding Solid 
State Electronics 

An excellent tutorial mtroductioh to 
transistor and diode circuitry. Used at 
the TI Learning Center, ibi s book was 
written for the person who needs to 
understand electronics hot can't devote 
years to the study. 242 pp, $195 (9A] 


BYTE Magazine 

If you are considering a personal com¬ 
puting system now or later, BYTE 
provides a wealth of information on how 
to get started at an affordable price. 
Covers theory of computers, practical 
applications, and of course, lots of how¬ 
to build it. Monthly. 1-Year sub’n $12.00 
[2A], 3-Years $30.00 [2B] 

Games & Puzzles 
Magazine 

The only magazine in the world devoted 
to games and puzzles of every kind — 
mathematical, problematical, 
crosswords, chess, gomoko, checkers, 
backgammon, wargames, card games, 
board games, reviews, competitions, and 
more. Monthly. 1-Year sub*n$I2.00[3A] 

Games With The 
Pocket Calculator 

Sivasailam Thiagarajan and Harold 
Stolovitch. A big step beyond tricks and 
puzzles with the hand calculator, the two 
dozen games of chance and strategy in 
this clever new book involve two or more 
players in conflict and competition. A 
single inexpensive four-banger is all you 
need to play. Large format. 50 pp. $2.00 
[8H] 

Games, Tricks and 
Puzzles For A Hand 
Calculator 

Wally Judd. This book is a necessity for 
anyone who owns or intends to buy a 
hand calculator, from the most 
sophisticated (the HP65, for example) to 
the basic “four banger.” 110 pp. $2.95 
[8D] 


Computer Lib/ 

Dream Machine 

Ted Nelson. This book is devoted to the 
premise that everybody should under¬ 
stand computers. In a blithe manner the 
author covers interactive systems, ter¬ 
minals, computer languages, data struc¬ 
tures. binary patterns, computer 
architecture, mini-computers, big com¬ 
puters, microprocessors, simulation, 
military uses of computers, computer 
companies, and much, much more. 
Whole earth catalog style and size. A 
doozy! 127 pp. $7.00 [8P1 

Computer Power and 
Human Reason 

Joseph Weizenbaum. In this major new 
book, a distinguished computer scientist 
sounds the warning against the 
dangerous tendency to view computers 
and humans as merely two different 
kinds of “thinking machines.” Weizen¬ 
baum explains exactly how the computer 
works and how it is being wrongly 
substituted for human choices. 300 pp. 
$9.95 [8R] 


A Guided Tour of 
Computer Programming 
In Basic 

Tom Dwyer and Michael Kaufman. 
“This is a fine book, mainly for young 
people, but of value for everyone, full of 
detail, many examples (including 
programs for hotel and airline reser¬ 
vations systems, and payroll), with much 
thought having been given to the use of 
graphics in teaching This is the best of 
the introductory texts on BASIC."— 
Creative Computing Large format. 156 
pp. $4.40 [8L] 


BASIC Programming 
2nd Ed 

Kemeny and Kurtz . “A simple gradual 
introduction to computer programming 
and time-sharing systems. The best text 
on BASIC on almost all counts. Ratine 
K+" -Creative Computing. 150 pp. $8.55 

PE] 


Artist and Computer 

Ruth Leavitt, ed. Presents personal 
statements of 35 internationally-known 
computer artists coupled with over 160 
plates in full color and black A white. 
Covers video art, optical phenomena, 
mathematical structures, sculpture, 
weaving, and more. 132 pp. $4.95 [6D] 
Cloth cover $10.95 [6EJ 


Build Your Own 
Working Robot 

David Heiserman. Complete plans, 
schematics and logic circuits for building 
a robot. Not a project for novices, this 
robot is a sophisticated experiment in 
cybernetics. You build him in phases and 


Microprocessors 

A collection of articles from Electronics 
magazine. The book is in three parts: 
device technology; designing with 
microprocessors; and applications. 160 
pp. 1975 $13.50 [9J] 

Microprocessors: Tech¬ 
nology, Architecture 
and Applications 

Daniel R. McGlvnn. This introduction 
to the microprocessor defines and 
describes the related computer structures 
and electronic semi-conductor processes. 
Treats both hardware and software, 
giving an overview of commercially 
available microprocessors, and helps the 
user to determine the best one for 
him/her. 240 pp. $12.00 [7C] 

The Art of Computer 
Programming 

Donald Knuth. The purpose of this series 
is to provide a unified, readable, and 
theoretically sound summary of the 
present knowledge concerning computer 
programming techniques, together with 
their historical development. For the 
sake of clarity, many carefully checked 
computer procedures are expressed both 
in formal and informal language. A 
classic series. Vol. I: Fundamental 
Algorithms, 634 pp. $20.95 [7R]. Vol. 2: 
Seminumerical Algorithms, 624 pp. 
$20.95 [7S]. Vol. 3: Sorting and 
Searching, 722 pp. $20.95 [7T]. 


watch his capabilities increase and his 
personality develop. Phase I is leash led, ALGOL by PrOblGITlS 
Phase 11 has a basic brain, while Phase 
III responds and makes decisions. 238 
1976 $5.95 [9M] 


Computer Science: 

A First Course (2nd Ed.) 

Forsythe, Keenan, Organic k. and 
Stenberg. A new, improved edition of 
this comprehensive survey of the basic 
components of computer science. There 
has been an updating of important areas 
such as Programming, Structured 
Programming, Problem Solving, and 
other Computer Science Concepts. The 
quantity of exercises and problems has 
been increased. 876 pp.$16.95 [7D] 

Mr. Spock Poster 

Dramatic, large (17” x 23") computer 
image of Mr. Spock on heavy poster 
stock. Uses two levels of overprinting. 
Comes in strong mailing tube. $ 1.50 [5B] 


PP 


Computers and 
Society 

R. Hamming. Provides a framework for 
thinking about and drawing conclusions 
about how machines should be used in 
our society. Presents, in a non-technical 
way. the principles of computer 
operations, programming and use. 288 
pp. 1972 $7.95 [8T] 

Problem Solving: The 
Computer Approach 

LaFave, Milbrandl, and Garth. 
Describes the process of thinking 
through the steps needed to solve a 
problem, flowcharting the steps, coding 
in a computer language, development of 
appropriate test data, and manual 
checking. 176 pp. 1973 $10.40 [8U] 


B. Meek. A set of programming exer¬ 
cises, both abstract and concrete, to give 
the reader a thorough working 
knowledge of ALGOL. Good compan¬ 
ion to vendor’s language manual. 168 pp. 
1972 $8.95 [8V] 


Computer Algorithms 
and Flowcharting 

G. Silver and J. Silver. A straightforward 
approach to analyzing problems and 
structuring solutions suitable for the 
computer. Branching, counters, loops, 
and other important concepts are 
presented in easily-grasped modular 
units in the text. 176 pp. 1975 $6.95 [8W] 

Creative Computing 
Catalogue 

Zany 12-page tabloid newspaper/ 
catalog lists books, magazines, art prints, 
and T-Shirts. A conversation piece even 
if you don’t order anything. Free. [5A] 


Use Order Form On Inside Back Cover. 

















Input/ Output 



Humanistic Computer Uses 


Dear Editor: 

1 am working on a survey of the humanistic use of computers 
and would like to get in touch with other people who are 
interested in this field. 1 want to learn about what can, and is, 
being done to make the use of computers as humanized as 
possible. More specifically, 1 want to know: 

— What are the potentially humane applications of com¬ 
puters? 

— What are the important ingredients in humanized 
computer systems? 

— What is currently being done in the field of humane com¬ 
puting, both in terms of theory and practice? 

— Which individuals and groups are actively doing this work? 

— What are their particular goals and objectives? 

— What are the results so far? 

— What are the major factors determining their successes and 
failures? 

Do computers have a role in the humanizing of our society? 
Can we use them to facilitate the creative expression of our 
individuality and the healthy fulfillment of our potential? Can 
the use of computers help us to communicate meaningfully with 
each other, so as to promote mutual caring, understanding and 
respect? If computer systems can indeed contribute to further¬ 
ing humanistic ideals, what would such systems look like in 
principle and how well do existing and planned systems measure 
up to these aims in practice? 

Or perhaps computers, by their nature, are inappropriate for 
such a role in people’s lives? If so, why, and what can be done to 
ensure that computer systems are as humanized as possible? Just 
what are the limits and limiting factors in the humanistic use of 
computers? 

1 would like to hear from anyone who can contribute to 
answering such questions. They should write to me describing 
their thoughts, fantasies, plans and experiences related to the 
humane use of computers. 

Andrew Clement 
789 West 18th Avenue 
Vancouver, B.C. 

Canada V5Z 1W1 


Humanistic Computer Jobs? 

Dear Editor: 

This may sound strange but the whole idea of humanizing 
computers is what has been pushing me along for my degree. I’m 
looking around now for a job paying good money, doing just 
that. If you have any ideas let me know. 

Mark S. Mayes 
Boston University 

Editor's note. If anyone has any ideas for Mark, knows of any 
jobs, or shares his concern, let us hear from you. 

Strange Phenomenon 

Dear Editor: 

1 recently came across a strange phenomenon which may be of 
some interest to you. Through a head injury which is caused by 
gassing it is possible to transmit sound and pictures over a 
wireless wave from head to head over long distances. Individual 
heads are turned into what could indeed be called small radio- 
television transmitters and receivers. 

As far as I can make out the gassing enables an electrical field 
which is normally enclosed within the body on a circuit of its 
own to be tuned into. This forms a circuit over which signals can 
be transmitted. 

In transmitting there isn’t any frequency fade. The pitch of 
the signals seems to be several tones higher and several tones 
lower than ordinary sound. The sound isn’t audible to the ear in 
the usual way. It is heard within the head or out from it 
according to the way that it is transmitted. It is possible that the 
ears are affected in such a way that they ‘hear’ outside the 
normal range of sound. I think that the sound could be thought 
of as being in a quite new and unresearched tonal range. 

Several people combine together to tune into the head. 
Broadcasts between heads are almost continuous. It has 
occurred to me that it might be possible to tune into such 
broadcasts on specially made metre bands in ultra high 
frequencies. The fact that pictures can be transmitted as well as 
sound suggests that broadcasts take place on very high 
frequencies. 

No research is being done here in Australia on this problem. 1 
understand that this kind of communication falls into the 
category of Cybernetics, a relatively new field about which very 
little is known. Both the Russians and Japanese are carrying out 
studies where it is concerned. 

To my mind the thing is a security risk in that in times of war 
transmissions could be made other than by orthodox means. 1 
realize that all this will sound incredible to you but 1 hope that 
you will be able to give it some serious thought. 

If the frequencies on which transmissions are taking place 
could be determined it might be possible to design a piece of 
electronic equipment like a small transistorized transmitter that 
could block signals being sent into individual heads. Enormous 
numbers of people seem to be involved in it here. Is any research 
being done in this field in America? 

E. Rowlands 
Sidney, NSW, Australia 

Health Care Applications 

Dear Editor: 

I would be very interested in corresponding with anyone in the 
health professions or with an interest in health care delivery data 
collection and recording about programs such as [the one I 
wrote for an IBM 5100 to collect clinical data]. 

Our intention is to begin in a very basic (no pun intended) 
manner and slowly graduate to more sophisticated programs on 
interacting health care problems. It is not our intention to write 


6 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 















Games for 
Thinkers 

from WFF ? N PROOF publishers 
THE EMPHASIS IS NOT ON WHAT 
TO THINK, BUT HOW TO THINK! 



OHrSTS 


ONSETS 


2 to 4 players 

$ 10 . 00 * 


The Game of Set Theory, By Layman E. Allen, Peter Kugel, 
(M.I.T.), Martin Owens (Mitre Corp.) The game of set theory. 
This 30-game package can instruct students in kindergarten 
through high school in basics of set theory as well as extend 
a challenge to any adult exploring “new math." Encourages 
players to enjoy mathematics while learning concepts of union, 
intersection, logical differences, complement, identity, inclu¬ 
sion, null and universal sets. 


CONFIGURATIONS: Number Puzzles and Patterns for All 
Ages, by Harold L. Dorwart (Professor of Mathematics, Trinity 

College). A series of ingenious geometric and mathematical 
problems that will delight and challenge those who enjoy 
careful reasoning. Suitable for Jr. and Sr. high school levels. 
If you prefer solitaire, this one is for you. 

1 Player $6.75* 




2 to 4 players 

$13.00* 

The Game of Modern Logic, By Layman E. Allen, (Professor 
of Law and Research Social Scientist, University of Michigan). 

The original game of symbolic logic. Twenty-one-game kit that 
starts with speed games that challenge intelligent adults. The 
kit provides entertainment and practice in abstract thinking 
relevant for philosophy, mathematics, English, and computer 
programming for Jr. and Sr. high school. 


WFF ’N PROOF 



QUERIES 

’N 

THEORIES 

For teen-agers 
and adults 


2 to 4 players 
$13.00* 

The Game of Science & Language. (A Simulation of Scientific 
Method and Generative Grammars), By Layman E. Allen and 
Joan Ross (University of Michigan) and Peter Kugel (Massa¬ 
chusetts Institute of Technology). Through inductive reasoning, 
players learn scientific method of inquiry and gain skill in 
organizing, analyzing, and synthesizing data while engaged in 
an intriguing game of linguistics. 




THE 

PROPAGANDA 

GAME 


2 to 4 players 

$11.00* 

By Lome Greene (N.B.C., Paramount Studios), and Robert 
Allen (Director of Academic Games, Nova University). Stu¬ 
dents learn the fascinating techniques used by professionals 
to influence public opinion by learning to recognize "band¬ 
wagon” appeals, faulty analogy, out-of-context quotes, ration¬ 
alization, technical jargon, emotional appeals, and many more. 
Particularly fascinating for social studies classes, English, 
problems of democracy, debate. 


EQUATIONS 


2 to 4 players 

$ 10 . 00 * 

The Game of Creative Mathematics, By Layman E. Allen. Our 

most popular game of mathematics. Five-game kit for use in 
intermediate grades through high school. Includes arithmetic 
operations such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, divi¬ 
sion, exponents and radicals in a variety of number bases. 
Like chess, the game can be as simple or as complex as the 
players make it. 



0N-W0RDS: The Game of Word Structures, 
by Professors Layman E. Allen and Frederick L. 
Goodman and Doris Humphrey and Joan Ross, 
Research Associates (University of Michigan). An 

instructional game that incorporates any aspect 
of words that players wish to introduce. Players 
practice and learn spelling, counting, grammar, 
phonetics, word roots, inflectional endings, pre¬ 
fixes and suffixes. 

2 or more players / For children & adults $10.00* 


[WFF ’N PROOF GAMES " 

| 1490-DF South Blvd., Ann Arbor, Ml 48104 

_ a. WFF ’N PROOF (logic) $13.00* 

| _ b. QUERIES ’N THEORIES (sci.&lang.) 13.00* 

_ c. EQUATIONS (mathematics) 10.00* 

_ d. ON-SETS (set theory) 10.00* 

_ e. PROPAGANDA (social studies) 11.00* 

_ f. CONFIGURATIONS (geometry) 6.75* 

I _ g. ON-WORDS (word structures) 10.00* 

| _ 5-game special (a-e) 49.95* 

j _ 6-game special (a-f) 55.95* 

_ 7-game special (a-g) 64.95* 


♦includes postage & handling 
My check is enclosed for $_ 

Name_ 

Address _ 

City_ State_Zip_ 































programs which will diagnose anything. That sort of work 
requires a tremendous amount of computing capability which 
we do not have nor are we desirous of obtaining. There are many 
other institutions in the United States, the University of 
Missouri at Columbia being one of these, who have done a far 
better job at that than we will ever be able to do. Our entire 
thrust is toward the individual practitioner of medicine,dentist¬ 
ry, or veterinary medicine who now has within his reach because 
of present day technology, the ability to collect, record, and 
retrieve data in a far more efficient manner than he has ever been 
able to do before. 

Richard E. Easton, M.D.F.A.C.P.M. 

President 

Health Information Services, Inc. 

5341 Parliament Drive 
Professional Bldg., Suite 104 
Virginia Beach, Virginia 23462 

SNOBOL 

Dear Editor: 

Being a member of the all-too-small group of people who 
know and love SNOBOL, I was disappointed to see it only 
barely mentioned in “On Computer Languages” of the 
September-October issue. Enclosed is a brief description of this 
mind-blowing language. BASIC may be the best beginner’s 
language in the world, but there are problems of a higher 
nature than SPACEWAR, ya’ know. 

By the way, PL1 is really spelled PL/1 (that’s a Roman 
numeral—IBM’s attempt at class). PL/1 was supposed to 
replace FORTRAN, COBOL, assembly language, and 
everything else, as the special language of the System/360. It is 
a general purpose language: “good” for lots of things, but not 
great at anything Math freaks find much more versatility in 
APL; string manipulation and linguistics people prefer more 
sophisticated dialects like SNOBOL; artificial intelligence 
researchers think LISP is best (for LISt Processing, anyway); 
and operating systems people know that assembly language is 
far more efficient. “What is it good for?” you ask. PL/1 is a 
good replacement for another unimaginative language: 
COBOL. 

Computer Science types also like PL/1, because it allows 
them to practice structured programming, a technique 
necessitated by the poor quality of certain languages, notably 
COBOL, PL/1, ALGOL, and related diseases. I recently 
watched a group of Intro-to-Programming students hack their 
way through a PL/1 program to do some simple string 
manipulation. What they did with mountains of DO WHILE’S 
and SUBSTR’s and INDEX’S could have been done in half a 
dozen lines of SNOBOL. Likewise, the hairy matrix inversion 
and statistical problems many FORTRAN students are 
subjected to could be done in a few lines of APL. 

Granted, beginning programmers must learn the concepts 
of looping, conditional branching, etc. But this can be taught in 
a more comfortable environment like interactive BASIC. Some 
of the BASIC interpreters running on minicomputers are really 
beautiful. And when a student moves on to more complex 
areas of study, he should be supplied with the appropriate 
tools. SMALLTALK is an excellent example of an intelligent 
language for a specialized application. Viva Xerox PARC! I 
think you’ll find that most of the creative programming is done 
in languages like BASIC and FORTRAN because of their 
flexibility. COBOL, PL/1, and RPG are for the production- 
oriented business world, where results are more important than 
aesthetics. 

The high schools with PDP-8’s running BAS¬ 
IC/ PAL/ FOCAL software are still way ahead of the average dp 
shop with its 360/50 under DOS producing umptween carbons 
of reports and audit trails no one would even want to read. Com¬ 
puters are mind-expanding tools: programming languages 
should be designed for this purpose. 

I may have made a few readers angry by this time, but isn’t 
that good? Maybe they’ll write you about their opinions. 

David Touretzky 
Rutgers University 

An article on SNOBOL may be found on page 32. 


A Prejudiced Analysis 

Dear Editor: 

The “Prejudice Analysis” program by Richard Kahn and 
Mark Gross described in your September-October issue is a 
prize example of the misuse of computers denounced by 
Weizenbaum and others. It falsely claims to analyze, disguises 
propaganda as science, and intimidates its subjects. To what¬ 
ever extent Dr. Siegel of Tufts is responsible, he has shown 
neither the honesty required of a scientist nor the concern for 
subjects required of a psychiatrist. 

Here are the counts of the indictment: 

1. The computer is used to mystify the user, disguise what is 
being done, and lend scientific authority to opinion. It claims to 
“analyze” the extent of a person’s racial prejudice. It simply 
counts the extent of his agreement with the “right answers.” The 
more strongly he holds the right opinions the less prejudiced he 
is said to be. That cannot honestly be called analysis. 

2. The questionnaire itself is a propaganda document. Many 
of the obviously “prejudiced” statements are caricatures of the 
actual beliefs of most of Siegel's foes — e.g. the opponents of 
busing. 

3. The program expresses fanatical intolerance. Each item 
has a right response, and disagreeing slightly is counted 
“ANSWERED IN A RACIST MANNER.” 

4. The program teaches that objectivity is racist. Many of the 
statements concern matters that vary from area to area, e.g. 
whether a neighborhood is open to Negroes, whether welfare 
families would soon follow Black families into the neighbor¬ 
hood, whether particular schools would be better with more 
minority groups, and whether property values would go up or 
down if minorities entered. The student is taught that circum¬ 
stances are irrelevant; the non-racist answer is always the same. 
Many of the questions are only tenuously related to race, but 
you're racist unless you conform. 

5. The word prejudice is misused. Its use started when it was 
observed that many anti-Negro and anti-Semitic views were 
based on hearsay and were usually abandoned on acquaintance. 
Such a view is a prejudice, but many views called prejudices here 
are held by people as much acquainted with minorities as Siegel, 
Kahn and Gross. They still may be mistaken, but they are not 
prejudices unless thoughtlessly held. 

6. The program instigates and manipulates guilt feelings to 
browbeat students into conformity. The student soon recog¬ 
nizes that he is in the hands of fanatics. If he wants the good will 
of his teacher and his right-thinking classmates, he will know 
how he must answer all but question 9. U nless he is rather subtle, 
he will believe he ought to disagree with “ City riots are a threat 
to our suburban life ” just as he must disagree with the more 
traditional “ Property values will go down if minorities enter the 
neighborhood .” But this is the racist response. 

Perhaps not agreeing doesn’t take rioters seriously enough. 
The effect is to trip the unwary and worry the wary. Almost no 
subject will get a clean bill of health, and each will go away with a 
feeling of guilt. 

7. Using the program in a classroom violates the civil right of 
a student not to be swindled and browbeaten by his teachers and 
university researchers. Considered as a scientific experiment in¬ 
volving human subjects, it violates every pertinent code of ethics 
and may violate Massachusetts or Federal law'. 

I fear that such abuse of questionnaires and computers has 
become widespread in the social sciences, but it is rarely 
described as clearly and concisely as Messrs. Gross and Kahn 
have done. Since the program is dated 1970, one can hope they 
have recovered some objectivity, honesty and fairness. Still it 
would be interesting to know how many high school classes were 
subjected to this computerized indoctrination. 

The reader may think it foolish to have put even this much 
effort into attacking a high school students’ hack. Maybe no 
class was ever subjected to it, and if one was, maybe the students 
were not intimidated, thought it was silly, and said so. My 
excuse is that it is rare and refreshing to find all these common 
intellectual crimes concentrated in two pages and a computer 
program whose unambiguous behavior leaves no room for the 
authors to claim they were misunderstood. 

John McCarthy 
Computer Science Department 
Stanford, CA 94305 


8 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 



- We Design - 

Educational 
Computer Systems 


School Computers are special. 

More than hardware is necessary. 

Instructional programs must exist 
in a wide range of disciplines. 
Administrative software must be created 
for unique requirements in education. 
Students and administrators should be able 
to work simultaneously and independently. 
Operating systems must provide excellent security. 

Most importantly, the company providing the 
system must be an educational specialist. 

Be able to determine your unique needs, 
funnel information from other users, 
train people, on-site if necessary, 
create new educational software, 
and provide continuous support 
even after the installation. 



A FIVE (5) TERMINAL TIMESHARING SYSTEM WITH 
DISKETTE STORAGE IS UNDER $20,000. 

COMPLETE SYSTEMS START AT $5,915. 


Please call me about the following system: 

□ Low Cost 

□ Medium Scale Timesharing 

□ Administrative 

□ Instructional and Administrative 

Name_Title. 

School_ 

Address_ 

State 
Zip- 


City. 


Phone- 


SO 

yootnff 


Nc^jx^x^^ U L f 

corporation U 


196 Trumbull Street 
Hartford, Connecticut 06103 
(203) 728-6777 





































edit cp i 


We are asking you, dear readers, to indicate your reac¬ 
tion to various articles and features in Creative Computing. 

Our purpose is twofold: to learn which articles from our 
issues you read together with your constructive criticisms, 
and to find out more about who you are. This information is 
vitally important to us and your time in filling out our form 
will be most appreciated. Why?? Read on. 

As a result of informal surveys in the past we have some 
ideas about which articles will be most read when we put 
together an issue of Creative Computing. For example, we 
know that the "Complete Computer Catalogue" section is 
more widely read than the longer reviews even when they 
carry substantially similar information. We know that 
articles about programming techniques in BASIC will be 
read more than, say, an article on medical applications. 

Yet, we cannot always choose articles that will have the 
highest initial readership acceptance. We feel that you 
demand from us leadership in exploring new, creative uses 
of computers. We believe that you share our concern that 
computers be made to benefit people and help shape a more 
humane future, and that we must pay attention now to the 
directions in which they are developed. We feel it is 
incumbent upon us to expose our readers to unfamiliar 
subjects that may help stretch their thinking, as that ex¬ 
posure has helped broaden our vision. To cover these areas 
in sufficient depth, it may be rough goingforthe uninitiated. 
Microprocessors, for example, are of increasing importance 
to everyone whether they realize it or not. We shall keep 
pounding away. 


Nevertheless, we certainly don't have all the answers, 
nor are we so bullheaded that we won't accept comments or 
criticisms from our readers. For if, regardless of our purpose 
to help inform you as you become a leader toward a better 
future, you're just not reading our stuff, period, our 
grandiose ideas are for nought. So please, now, vent your 
passions, tell us what you'll read. 

The reason for asking about who you are is a simple old- 
fashioned matter of economics. We want to have more 
advertising in Creative Computing to help defray expenses 
so that we can afford to increase the size and printed quality 
of the magazine, afford more top quality work, pay the 
increased postal rates, paper rates, etc., and not increase 
the cost of subscriptions in this day of inflation. We could do 
it with advertising, but many potential advertisers want to 
know more about you, our subscribers, before they'll give us 
their ads. Also, we think we're asking for ads from people 
whose products will be interesting to you, which would be 
an attraction to, rather than a detraction from, our maga¬ 
zine. So how about it, will you help us out? 

David Ahl 


Please 
Return < 
Form j 




T Shirts! 


T-Shirts available in adult sizes S, M, L, 
XL. Ajl cotton, made in USA. $4.00 each 
postpaid in USA, $5.00 to foreign ad¬ 
dresses. Send order (specifying design and 
size) with payment to Creative Computing, 
P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 07960. 
Allow 8 weeks for delivery. 









CREATIVE COMPUTING SURVEY 


We hope that you are motivated through lofty ideals and noble purposes to respond to our questionnaire. But in the event you 
demand a crass, greedy, materialistic incentive, here it is. We are having a drawing of all submitted survey forms. The first prize 
winner receives a 3-year subscription or renewal of Creative Computing. The second and third place winners each receive a one- 
year subscription or renewal 

WIN A 3-YEAR SUBSCRIPTION TO CREATIVE COMPUTING, 

OR ONE OF TWO 1-YEAR SUBSCRIPTIONS! 


Complete this form and return it for the drawing. Deadline is January 2, 1977. 


A. 


In an issue of Creative Computing 

1 read: Always Mostly 

Some 

times 

Never 

Feature Articles 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Book Reviews 

a 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Fiction 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Puzzles and Problems 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Simulations and Learning Programs 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Game Programs 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Letters to the Editor 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Advertisements 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Editorials 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Compleat Computer Catalogue 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Cartoons, Humor 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Notices 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

1 use the games or programs listed: 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

1 would be interested in 

Very 


Not 

Waste 

more articles about: 

Much 

Some 

Much 

of Space 

Building a Computer 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Microcomputers 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Computer use in Education 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Computer Applications in: 

Music 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Art/Graphics 

n 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Medicine 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Space Exploration 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Business and Industry 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Home Control 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Computer Graphics 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Artificial Intelligence 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Learning Activities 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Fiction 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Social Implications 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Computer Club Activities 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

Other 

1 would like more technical articles: 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

1 would like more reprints from 

conference talks: 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 


C. My function is: 

□ Faculty: College or University 

□ Faculty: Grades K-12 

□ Student: College or University 

□ Student: Grades K-12 

□ Industry: title_ 

□ Government: title_ 

□ Other (please specify)_ 


D. I utilize a computer at (checkall that apply): 

□ work □ home 

□ school □ Other. 


E. 

At home 1 have (check all that apply): 


□ microcomputer □ floppy disk 


□ minicomputer 

□ digital cassette tape 


□ CRT terminal 

□ video display 


□ hard copy terminal □ Other 

F. 

1 utilize my home computer for: 



□ recreation 

□ record keeping 


□ CAI 

□ home control 


□ research 

□ work related 

G. 

(If in education) 1 use a computer: 



□ in a computer center 

□ in my discipline which is 

H. 

My age: □ under 20 

□ 36-50 


□ 21-35 

□ 50 or over 

1. 

Books 1 read are: (check all that apply) 


□ science fiction 

□ mystery 


□ modern literature 

□ history 


□ sports 

□ adventure 

J. 

Other magazines 1 read are: (checkall that apply) 


□ Byte 

□ Interface 


□ Communications of the ACM 

□ The Mathematics Teacher 


□ Computer 

□ Mini Micro Systems 


□ Computer Decisions 

□ Minicomputer News 


□ Computerworld 

□ People's Computer Company 


□ Curriculum Product Review 

□ Science News 


□ Datamation 

□ Scientific American 


□ Dr. Dobb's Journal 

□ The Journal 

K 

How many people read this copy of Creative? 


□ one 

□ three 


□ two 

□ more? 

L. 

1 save my copy: 

□ a week or two 

□ keep it (file it, save it. 


□ a month or two 

treasure it) 

M. 

1 recommend, specify, select or purchase: (check all that apply): 


□ Medium/large computer 

□ Programmable calculators 


□ Minicomputer 

□ Hand calculators 


□ Microcomputer 

□ Computer leasing service 


□ MPU chips 

□ Software 


□ CRT Terminal 

□ Courseware 


□ Teleprinter 

□ Learning Aids 


□ Graphics Terminal 

□ Books/Publications 


□ Coupler/Data set 

□ Consultants 


□ Peripherals 

□ Other 

N. 

Please add comments: 



Name_ 

Address _ 

City _ 

State & Zip 


NOV DEC 1 976 


Return to: Creative Computing, P. O. Box 789-M, Morristown, N.J. 07960 


11 























CDK1PLEHT 
COKIPliTEB 
CATALOGJE 



We welcome entries from readers for 
the “Compleat Computer Catalogue” on 
any item related, even distantly, to 
computers. Please include the name of 
the item, a brief evaluative description, 
price, and complete source data. If it is an 
item you obtained over one year ago, 
please check with the source to make sure 
it is still available at the quoted price. 

Send contributions to “The Compleat 
Computer Catalogue,” Creative Comput¬ 
ing, P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 
07960. 


BOOKS AND 
BOOKLETS 


CALCULATORS IN THE ELE¬ 
MENTARY SCHOOL 

A 59 page special report published by the 
Curriculum Group of the Oregon Council 
for Computer Education. The first half of 
the booklet contains many calculator games 
and exercises. (To find out what Amelia 
Earhart’s father said the first time he saw her 
flying an airplane by herself. Find .023x3, 
add 10141 to the result, multiply by 5, and 
look at the answer upside down.) The rest of 
the report describes a six-week experiment 
using calculators with fifth and sixth grade 
students including an outline of each day’s 
activities, the results, and conclusions. Two 
annotated bibliographies. S2.00. 

Oregon Council for Computer Education, 
4015 SW Canyon Rd, Portland, OR 97221 


COMPUTER USES IN EDUCA¬ 
TION 

Proceedings of the ACM SIGGSE- 
SICCUE Symposium in Anaheim, Califor¬ 
nia, in February 1976 are available in a 400 
page publication. If you’re interested in these 
important papers describing innovative uses 
of computers in education get the book. It’s 
doubtful you’ll get a chance to read them 
anywhere else since reprint costs run S500 an 
article. (Let the ACM know how you feel 
about that too!) Price for ACM or S1GGSE 
members is $15 prepaid; others $20 prepaid. 

ACM Order Department, P.O. Box 
12105, Church Street Station, New York 
10249 


NO FREE WILL IN TOMATOES 

This is the title of a little (2% x 4 / 2 "), 
handmade (sewn and tied), limited edition 
(300) chapbook of 14 “minimal poems” by 
Peter Payack. These witty poems, some of 
which have previously appeared in Creative 
Computing show Peter’s fascination with 
history and science. 

Peter Payack and Jane Barnes publish 
chapbooks under the name of Quark Press 
(A quark being the smallest identifiable 
physical particle known today). Peter is also 
founder of Phone-A-Poem in the Boston 
area (call 617-492-1144 for a delightful short 
poetry reading by a contemporary poet). 

Three chapbooks are in Quark’s First 
Series: Curios by F.A. Nettelbeck, 

Mythologies by Jane Barnes and No Free 
Will in Tomatoes . $1.00 each, $2.50 for all 
three. 

Quark Press, Box 193, Cambridge, MA 
02141 



COMPUTER GAMES IN 
MACHINE CODE 

Scelbi’s First Book of Computer Games 
contains three games in machine code for 
8008 and 8080 based systems: “Space 
Capture,” Hexpawn, and Hangman. Hex- 
pawn and Hangman are modeled on the 
familiar games, and the idea in Space 
Capture is to shoot down a computer- 
controlled spaceship roaming the galaxy. 
Scelbi also has another game book called 
Galaxy. In Galaxy the object is to search 
through a galaxy of 64 quadrants (each 
composed of 64 sectors) to find alien ships 
and destroy them with torpedoes or 
“phasors.” Sound familiar? Anyway, both 
books include complete programs, il¬ 
lustrations, and flowcharts. Scelbi’s First 
Book and Galaxy are both $14.95 apiece, 
ppd. 

Scelbi Computer Consulting, Inc., 1322 
Rear Boston Post Road, Milford, CT 06460 


HP EDUCATIONAL 
SYSTEMS INFORMATION 

Hewlett Packard, one of the most active 
computer vendors in the educational arena 
has announced a number of new 
applications and software packages further 
enhancing their hardware for educational 
customers. 

The 12-page booklet “Computer 
Solutions for Elementary/Secondary 
Schools” describes hardware, software 
(instructional, CAI, administrative, etc.) for 
the HP 2000 and 3000 series. Free. 

“Computer Solutions for Colleges and 
Universities” is a 12-page booklet emphasiz¬ 
ing software in instruction, administration, 
and networks as well as user services. Free. 

“HP Math” describes three CAI math 
courses for students in grades 1 to 6, the 
higher grades, and for adults who need 
remedial work in arithmetic. Free. 

The 128-page “HP Clearinghouse” 
catalog describes almost every known 
application of HP minicomputers in educa¬ 
tion. It contains 80 entries on instructional 
and administrative applications, 50 entries 
on utility packages, and 90 descriptions of 
books, catalogs, and periodicals. $2.00. 

“Learning Timesharing BASIC” is a 60- 
page booklet designed to teach BASIC to 
beginners in a light and easy-to-understand 
way. $3.00 [A fun text, although we feel you 
can do better; see Creative’s review of 34 
books on BASIC in previous issues.] 

Inquiries Manager, Hewlett-Packard Co., 
1501 Page Mill Road, Palo Alto, CA 94304 

CALCULATORS IN THE 
CLASSROOM 

A 24 page report on a symposium 
sponsored by Rockwell International in 
December 1974. Most of the controversy 
centers around whether or not the use of 
calculators in the classroom is justified or 
whether it is just a passing fad (as “language 
labs” once were). Price unknown. 

Arnold Isford, Manager, Educational 
Marketing, Microelectronic Product Divi¬ 
sion, Rockwell International, 3310 
Miraloma Avenue, PO Box 3669, Anaheim, 
CA 92803 

“Knowledge is power.” 

Bacon 


12 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 













BUY-SELL-RENT 

Teletypes—Telex—TWX—C R T 
Couplers—Decwriters—Terminals 
DATA RENTALS/SALES/ INC. 

2919 So. La Cienega Blvd. • Culver City, Calif. 90230 
Phone (213) 559-3822 


MURPHY’S LAWS! 

Incomparable “scientific” wit. Colorfully 
lithographed on 8" x 10" heavy Parchtext 
for framing. A great business or personal 
gift! Only $3 (4/$10). Four Comers 
Press, Dept. CCA, Hanover, Mass. 
02339. 


COMPUTER GAMES! 


\ 


Fantastic collection of 101 computer games in BASIC, each 
one with a complete listing, sample run, and write-up are con¬ 
tained in the book, 101 BASIC Computer Games edited by 
David Ahl. Over 30,000 copies sold! 248 pages, paperback. 
$7.50 plus 75* handling ($8.25 total). 

Creative Computing, P.0. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 
07960. 




+^+++++++^+++<M^++++++++++++++++ 

FANTASY 8 SCIENCE FICTION books at 
up to 15% off! Over 1500 titles in stock. 
Also F&SF games, records, and a complete 
STAR TREK section. Send 25C for cat. to: 
NOVA* BOX 149* BROOKLYN, NY 11204 
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ 


CHESS AND COMPUTERS 

by David Levy 

This book describes how computers play chess and gives a de¬ 
tailed history of computer chess from the earliest chess playing 
machines up to present research projects. 

$7.95 Paper 0-914894-02-1 

$11.95 Hard 0-914894-01-X October, 1976 

1975 

U.S. COMPUTER CHESS CHAMPIONSHIP 

by David Levy 

Analysis of the sixth annual tournament in which 12 chess play¬ 
ing computer programs competed against each other and of a 
simultaneous exhibition match between the author, an interna¬ 
tional chess master, and the computers. David Levy won 10 
matches and drew two. 

$4.95 Paper 0-914894-01-3 

$6.95 Hard 0-914894-00-5 April, 1976 

1976 

U.S. COMPUTER CHESS CHAMPIONSHIP 

by David Levy 

This book is a description of the 1976 U.S. Computer Chess 
Championship which is held in Houston, Texas in October, 1976. 
It contains a detailed description and analysis of that tournament 
by David Levy, the tournament director. 

$4.95 Paper 0-914894-04-8 January, 1977 

As a special offer all three books are available softbound for 
$14.95 plus $1.50 for postage and handling. 

Please add 10% to all prices for orders outside the U.S. and Canada 
Residents of California please add 6% sales tax. 

Prices subject to change without notice. 

Postage and handling charge 75* per book. 

§ COMPUTER SCIENCE PRESS, INC. 
4566 POE AVENUE 
WOODLAND HILLS, CA. 91364 


NOW...Readers of CREATIVE COMPUTING 

Can Save $12 On an Introductory Subscription 
to DP/ED... And Get 2 Free Bonus Reports! 

You may never get such an offer again. Subscribe to DATA PROCESSING FOR 
EDUCATION for $28 ($12 off the regular $40 cost if you act Now) and receive 
the only newsletter on using the computer in education. Plus, you receive 2 
bonus reports. They are: (1) THE PLIGHT OF THE DP MANAGER, reprinted 
from the Harvard Business Review, and...(2) DATA COLLECTION SYSTEM 
HAS 20 TIMES THE OUTPUT ATI /10th THE COST. Special, to CREATIVE 
COMPUTING readers only. Just fill out the form below. 


-CLIP AND MAIL- 



To: Data Processing For Education 
North American Building 
401 North Broad Street 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19108 

Send me DATA PROCESSING FOR EDUCATION for one year 
(12 issues) and bill me for only $28.1 understand I can read 
three issues, and then just write “cancel” on your invoice, if I 
am not completely satisfied and owe nothing. And, I can keep 
the reports. 


Name. 


.Phone. 


Address. 


City&State. 


.Zip. 


P.S. Pass on this Special offer to your Data Processing Dept. 



13 























ORGANIZATIONS 


scs 

The Society for Computer Simulation is 
the principle technical society devoted to the 
advancement of simulation through the use 
of computers and similar devices. SCS seeks 
to promote the development of simulation 
technology through the exchange of infor¬ 
mation among people who use simulation to 
advantage in their endeavors. Full 
membership is open to anyone who has been 
in any phase of simulation for at least four 
years. Membership is $25/yr, students $15. 

Alex McKenna, The Society for Com¬ 
puter Simulation, P.O. Box 2228, La Jolla, 
CA 92038 


ACM, NCC, and CCUC conferences, and a 
joint conference with SIGCSE (first time 
in 1976). Annual membership $6 for 
non-ACM members. 

S1GCUE, ACM, 1133 Avenue of the 
Americas, New York, NY 10036 


ACM SIGCAS 

The purpose of the ACM Special Interest 
Group on Computers and Society is to 
provide a forum for the examination of the 
impact of computers on society, in terms of 
major economic, political, and sociological 
trends; information systems in many areas; 
privacy; and related issues. Very 
professional quarterly newsletter. Non- 
ACM membership in SIGCAS $9.00/yr. 

SIGCAS, ACM, 1133 Ave. of the 
Americas, New York, NY 10036 


sources and uses of energy, communications, 
food & nutrition, tools and low impact 
technology, and transportation. Individual 
membership for a year is $6.00 and includes 4 
issues of the magazine Northwest Synergy 
Access. Include a SASE. 

ComNet Northwest Information 
Network, Box 5599, Seattle, Washington, 
98105 




ACM 

The purpose of the Association for 
Computing Machinery is to advance the 
sciences and arts of information processing 
including the study, design, development, 
construction, and application of modern 
machinery, computing techniques, and 
languages. Persons qualified to be ACM 
members must subscribe to its purposes, 
have attained professional stature as 
demonstrated by intellectual competence 
and ethical conduct in information process¬ 
ing, and must be endorsed by two members 
of the ACM. Student membership also 
available at reduced rates. Many diverse 
publications and Special Interest Groups. 

Joseph Cunningham, Association for 
Computing Machinery, 1133 Avenue of the 
Americas, New York, N.Y. 10036 

ACM SIGCSE 

The purpose of the ACM Special Interest 
Group on Computer Science Education is to 
provide a forum for problems common 
among college educators attempting to 
develop, implement, or evaluate computer 
science programs, courses, and problem sets. 
Quarterly newsletter. Non-ACM 
membership in SIGCSE $9.00/yr. 

SIGCSE, ACM, 1133 Ave of the 
Americas, New York, NY 10036 

ACM SIGCUE 

The Special Interest Group of Com¬ 
puter Users in Education of the ACM has 
as a major purpose the interchange of 
information among educational (instruc¬ 
tional) users. The membership of 1200 or 
so is skewed toward higher education. 
The quarterly bulletin is substantial (40 
typed pages) and carries in-depth articles, 
interviews, and conference reports. Each 
issue also runs an annotated bibliography 
of new books and magazine articles. The 
group sponsors meetings at the annual 


IEEE COMPUTER SOCIETY 

The IEEE Computer Society is actually 
part of a much larger organization, the 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers. It was formed to advance the 
theory and practice of computer and 
information processing technology and 
exchange technical information among its 
members. These people are concerned 
mostly with hardware. To be eligible for 
membership in the IEEE Computer Society 
you must be an IEEE or approved society 
member, have graduated from a four-year 
course of study, have been involved in the 
computer field professionally for at least five 
years, or be a registered student in the 
Society’s field of interest Membership 
including IEEE dues $46/yr. 

Harry Hayman, P.O. Box 639A, Silver 
Spring, Maryland 20901 



ASCUE 

This organization of Small College Users 
in Education aspires to encourage the 
appropriate uses of computing equipment 
and techniques for its member institutions 
and to assist its members in solving in¬ 
dividual problems. Formerly an IBM 1130 
users group, member institutions today have 
DEC, HP, GA, and other hardware as well 
as the inevitable IBM systems. Regular 
Membership is $35 for educational in¬ 
stitutions. 

Dan Kinnard, ASCUE Director of Public 
Relations, New Mexico Military Institute, 
Roswell, New Mexico 88201 


COMNET 

ComNet—Northeast Information 

Network is a cooperative resource and skills 
exchange for Washington, Oregon, Idaho, 
and British Columbia. It serves as a 
community memory bank providing people 
with information on positive options and 
alternatives they need for now and the 
future. ComNet makes information 
available on topics such as alternative 


ADCIS 

The Association for Computer-Based 
Instructional Systems focuses on CAI in 
general, with particular emphasis on 
educational psychology and applications in 
the medical sciences. It publishes a 
newsletter which carries information about 
the activities of individual members and 
abstracts of the association’s two meetings 
each year. 

Peter Dean, Box 1403, Los Gatos, CA 
95030 



AEDS 

The Association for Educational Data 
Systems was founded in 1962 to provide a 
forum for the exchange of ideas and 
information about the relationship between 
technology and modern education. Primary 
emphasis tends to be on public school data 
processing applications with instructional 
applications taking a back seat. Individual 
membership $20, student $10. Membership 
is “open to all interested in learning more 
and keeping informed about current 
developments in educational data systems.” 
AEDS also holds an annual convention and 
sponsors a programming contest for 
students in grades 7-12. 

Shirley Easterwood, Association for 
Educational Data Systems, 1201 16th St. 
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036 

NAUCAL 

The National Association of Users of 
Computer Applications to Learning is an 
organization of users whose purpose is to 
improve the learning-teaching process by 
influencing the development, evaluation, 
and dissemination of computer applications 
to learning. NAUCAL provides a forum for 
the exchange of ideas in the areas of drill- 
and-practice, tutorial, simulations, problem 
solving, computer-based testing, and other 
facets of instructional computing. It was 
founded in 1970 and is now a functional 


14 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 











chapter of AEDS. Membership is on an 
individual basis at $5.00 per calendar year. 

Mr. George H. L i t m a n, 
Secretary/Treasurer, Board of Education, 
City of Chicago, 228 North Lasalle Street, 
Room 430, Chicago, Illinois 60601 

ASIS 

The American Society for Information 
Science is a nonprofit professional associa¬ 
tion organized for literary, scientific, and 
educational purposes and dedicated to the 
creation, application, and dissemination of 
knowledge concerning information and its 
transfer. The Society acts as a bridge 
between research and development and the 
requirements of diverse types of information 
systems. Annual conference with 
proceedings, bimonthly Journal of the 
ASIS, 10 times/yr Bulletin. Regular 
membership $35, student $10. 

Robert McAfee, Jr., American Society for 
Information Science, 1155 16th Street, 
N.W., Suite 210, Washington, D.C. 20036 


MEDIA 


COMPUTER ART SLIDES 

The Computer Arts Society has collected 
a set of 35mm slides of artwork done by 
computer. Sets of approximately 100 slides 
are available at cost (approx. 30c per slide, 
i.e. $30.00/set). 

Ruth Leavitt, 5315 Dupont Ave South, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55419. 



EYES FOR COMPUTERS 

Robotics and machine intelligence are 
explored in this film from the General 
Motors Film Library. Shown are attempts to 
develop decision making powers into the 
computer—decisions based on what the 
computer “sees" via TV cameras. GM’s 
object is to develop machines to do some 
assembly line work, inspection procedures, 
and “intelligent” parts handling. The 
problems associated with a simple task such 
as recognizing a three dimensional object 
and then doing something with it are 
immense, as suggested by this film. This is an 
interesting computer applications film. It’s 
short, crisp, and good! About 10 minutes. 
Free. 

General Motors Film Library, Detroit, 
Mich. 48202 

VIDEOTAPE ON 
MAGIC SQUARES 

A 30 minute color video tape describing 
the magic squares of De La Loubere and 
Franklin has been produced by Donald T. 
Fiele at the University of Wisconsin- 


Parkside. The tape contains: a brief 
historical description of the De La Loubere 
and Franklin Magic Squares; an explana¬ 
tion of the algorithm used to construct each 
square; and a segment showing the magic 
squares being generated by computer. The 
tape is appropriate for junior high school 
and above, and is available in many forms: 
Vi" reel - $25, %" reel or cassette- $30, L'reel- 
$30. If you send your own reel or cassette 
deduct $15. 

David Campbell, Director, Media 
Production Center, University of Wisconsin 
- Parkside, Kenosha, Wisconsin 53140 


FATHER OF THE COMPUTER 

“Charles Babbage, Father of the 
Computer” is a 28-minute color TV 
documentary which introduces Babbage’s 
amazing calculating engines and many 
basic concepts of computer technology. 
It is available in the four popular TV tape 
formats (videocassette, IVC 1”, EIJ Yi\ 
and broadcast standard 2”). Loan of tape, 
free; dubbing at reasonable rates. 

AFIPS History of Computing Project, 
20 Wilson Road, West Point, NY 10996. 



SPECIAL PRICE 

The Bugbook library — Bugbooks I, II, IIA and III — are available 
together at the factory direct price of $37.00 . . . save 
postage and handling . . . order today. 

Prices applicable only in the U.S. and its possessions. 


In a world crawling with bugs, it’s 
good to have the Bugbooks by 
your side. Good to have just four 
books dedicated solely to teach- 


ture a step farther into the world 
of digital electronics without them. 
Because the place is crawling 
with bugs. 


ing you digital electronics . . . 
from ground zero on up. From 
fundamental logic and memory 
experiments to interfacing with 
microprocessors. The Bugbooks 
are E&L Instruments’ pioneering 
approach to mastering today’s 
pulse-quick world of micro-elec¬ 
tronics. With an approach that’s 
simple and straightforward. Clear. 
Complete. Well-illustrated. And as 
fresh as tomorrow’s circuit de¬ 
sign. In all, some 1350 pages. 
They’re the Bugbooks. Don’t ven- 


ni 


□ E&L INSTRUMENTS, INC. 

f| Circuit Design Aids 
61 First Street, Derby, Ct. 06418 
(203) 735-8774 


Order directly from one of 
our stocking representatives. 

Los Angeles, CA (213) 377-0975 
San Francisco, CA (415) 961-2828 
Woodbridge, CT (203) 397-1461 
Denver, CO (303) 744-2501 
Orlando, FL (305) 351-1841 
Chicago, IL (312) 956-8090 
Kansas City, KS (913) 649-8952 
New York, NY (201) 467-8585 
Syracuse, NY (315) 699-2651 
Dayton, OH (513) 222-0011 
Philadelphia, PA (215) 723-8733 
Dallas, TX (214) 690-4004 
Fairfax, VA (703) 273-1803 
Seattle, WA (206) 938-4166 


NOV DEC 1 976 


15 


























TEKTRONIX GRAPHICS 
PRODUCTS 

Following close on the heels of interactive 
computing in schools is interactive graphics. 
And few vendors have a more comprehen¬ 
sive line of graphics products than Tektronix 
ranging from the inexpensive 4006 graphic 
computer terminal ($2995) to the 4014 big 
19" screen terminal ($10595) to the 4051 
stand-alone BASIC graphic computer 
($6995). 

Worthwhile free literature from Tektronix 
includes Tekgraphics (April 73, No. 5, 
“Educational Applications”), 4051 Flyer, 
Computer Products Catalog, and Price List. 

Tektronix, Inc., Information Display 
Group, P.O. Box 500, Beaverton, OR 97077 

[See the complete review of the 4051 on pp. 
20 - 21 .] 


TT250 GRAPHICS TERMINAL 

Developed at the MIT Artificial In¬ 
telligence Lab, this terminal is different from 
any other you've probably seen since it uses 
two screens! One is used for text, and the 
other for dynamic graphics. The characters 
are on programmable 16x8 fonts with no 
spaces between the characters—so you can 
combine the characters to form larger 
symbols or even diagrams. In normal use the 
separation between characters is treated as 
part of the character itself. Also, the graphics 
have the capability of animation; that is, they 
can be changed smoothly and rapidly. The 
TT2500 has its own built-in processor and 
starts at $5,950. 

General Turtle Corporation Limited, 120 
Boul. Industrie!, Boucherville, Quebec J4B 
2X2, Canada 


LOW-COST GRAPHICS 
TERMINAL KIT 

The GT-6I Graphics Terminal Kit, 
produced by Southwest Technical Iroducts 
Corporation, displays an array of cells 64 
wide by 96 high on a standard video monitor 
or modified TV set. Each cell can be 
selectively turned on or off by the computer. 
There is also a provision for mixing graphics 
and alphanumerics on the same screen when 
using the GT-61 with Southwest's CT-I024 
TVT. And since the GT-61 may be driven by 
any computer having a TTL compatible 8 bit 
parallel output, it isn't necessary to own a 
particular system to use it! The GT-61 is 
$98.50, less power supply, chassis, and 
TV monitor. 

Southwest Technical Products Corpora¬ 
tion, 219 W. Rhapsody, San Antonio, TX 
78216 


HARDWARE 


1 Kits with 2k memory (no power supply) 
start at $375 (6502), $425 (8080,6800), or 
,$475 (Z-80). Add $135 for 12A power 
supply, $225 for 8k memory and keyboard 
(around $50) and you're in business. More 
information is free. 

[Incidentally, The Digital Group has 
gained a good reputation for not announcing 
products before they can be delivered — 
DHA] 

The Digital Group, Inc., P.O. Box 6528, 
Denver, CO 80206 


THE DIGITAL GROUP 

The Digital Group has a new idea. Namely 
a microcomputer system with in- 
terchangable CPUs at the CPU card level. In 
other words, a system doesn’t become 
immediately obsolete with each new 
microprocessor announcement. Your major 
investment in memory and I/O is protected. 

A typical Digital Group System consists 
of a CPU card with 2K RAM (choice of 
Zilog/Mostek Z-80, Intel 8080A, Motorola 
6800 or MOS Technology 6502), I/O card 
with f our input and four output ports, TV 
Readout and audio cassette interface, 8k 
static RAM and Mini-Mother board. You 
have to add a power supply, ASCII 
keyboard, cassette recorder, TV set and 
cabinet (if you wish) and you’re ready to go. 

Currently available software includes 
Tiny BASIC, a number of Tiny BASIC 
games, some ham and educational packages. 


CRT TERMINALS 

DS-3000 KSR terminal from Hal Com¬ 
munications can receive and send Baudot (5 
level) and/or ASCII (8 level) code data. 
Built-in microprocessor allows full cursor 
positioning and editing of the full screen of 
16 lines x 72 characters/line. Hal seems more 
interested than most manufacturers in 
schools and hobbyists. 

HAL Communications Corp., 807 East 
Green St., Urbana, IL 61801 


IBM 5100 

The 5100 is IBM’s first entry in the true 
minicomputer/ calculator field. This desktop 
unit, slightly larger than an electric 
typewriter, contains CPU, keyboard, 4" 
CRT display, cartridge tape unit, memory 
(up to 64k) and can run BASIC, APL, or 
both. The 5100 can drive a TV monitor 
directly. Options include a telecom¬ 
munications interface, medium-speed 
printer, and an auxiliary tape unit. (BASIC 
takes 4k overheard, APL 6k). Prices are as 
follows: 


Memory 

BASIC 

APL 

Both 

16k 

$ 8,975 

$ 9,975 

$10,975 

32k 

11,975 

12,975 

13,975 

48 k 

14,975 

15,975 

16,975 

64k 

17,975 

18,975 

19,975 


Printer is $300, aux tape $2300, comm, 
adapter $900, programming packages 
(business, stat, math) $500 each, BASIC 
CAI pkg $225, APL CAI pkg $295. 

IBM, General Systems Div., P.O. Box 
2150, Atlanta, GA 30301 


16 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 

















Consider 

what 



trifi hay 

in 


ltffUz 




5i XTEESl 

SLacK&Wrtfle 

PQ5T6K5 OF 
CHAMie CHAM 




12 axmiLs ON 

aN AlRPLTINE 
PtiSHT 

C fXE7Z£0 £XW0 



T£N HOURS OF 
P/IKKtNS IN 
DOWNTOWN 
W/15HiN6ToN, D.C. 


ONE FULL-YEAR 
MEMBERSHIP IN THE 
IEEE COMPUTER SOCIETY 

and with it, an automatic subscription to COMPUTER magazine, 
hefty price breaks on tutorials and proceedings (over 125 titles), 
member rates on conference registration, plus opportunities to 
participate in local chapter activities and technical committees. 






Special introductory offer: join now and receive FREE the one-volume collection of COMPUTER reprints, 
"Microprocessor Architecture and Applications." 

Fill out and mail the form below. Find out why membership in the IEEE Computer Society is one of the 
wisest investments you'll ever make. (At 24 bucks, can you afford NOT to?) 


25 YEARS OF SERVICE 



-1 

Quick —send me everything I need to know about joining the IEEE Computer Society. 

You can send me my free copy of "Microprocessor Architecture and Applications" 
when I join. 

Name_ . 

Address_ I 


MAIL THIS FORM TO: 

IEEE Computer Society • 5855 Naples Plaza • Long Beach, California 90803 


























































useful to verify entries without watching the 
visual display and for education it is valuable 
to capture and hold the attention of students. 
Four functions, square root, percent, in¬ 
dependent memory, constant, floating 
decimal, eight-digit capacity. Earphone jack 
for private listening; operates 3 hours 
between charges. Instructions available in 
print, braille, or cassette. Complete with 
case, earphone, battery charger and instruc¬ 
tions $395.00. 

Telesensory Systems, Inc., 1889 Page Mill 
Rd., Palo Alto, CA 94394 


TALKING CALCULATOR 

With a 24-word vocabulary, the 
SPEECH-PLUS calculator enunciates—in 
easy-to-understand electronic speech—each 
keystroke as it is made and then announces 
the answer. In production applications, it is 


JOLT 

JOLT is a microcomputer system based 
on the 6502 microprocessor with a 
debugger/monitor on a special read-only 
memory package called DEMON. This 
firmware permits use of any terminal from 


LIGHTWEIGHT TERMINAL 

Weighing only W /2 lbs including coupler 
and carrying case, the Tymshare Model 125 
terminal requires only a standard telephone 
and electrical outlet for fully portable KSR 
operation. Features include silent printing, 
color-coded keyboard, integrated 13-key 
numeric pad, and alternate 30 or 10 cps 
operation. Sale price: $2210; rental as low as 
$100/month. The Model 125 is available 
through Tymshare offices in major cities in 
the United States. 

Tymshare, Inc., 20705 Valley Green 
Drive, Cupertino, CA 95014 


LOW COST PRINTER KIT 

Southwest Technical’s PR-40 
Alphanumeric Printer Kit uses a 5x7 dot 
matrix impact print mechanism. It prints the 
64 upper case ASCII characters, 40 
characters per line, 75 1pm on standard 3%" 
rolls of adding machine paper. Complete kit 
$250.00. 

Southwest Technical Products Corp., 219 
W. Rhapsody, San Antonio, TX 78216 


PCM-12 COMPUTER KIT 

If you're thinking about buying a com¬ 
puter kit, then this one is worth some 
consideration. The PCM-12 is a simulation 
of a PD P-8 based on the Intersil IM6100 
microprocessor. It runs the same software 
and has essentially the same front panel 
functions as the PDP-8. As a result there is 
already a ton of cheap software for the 
PCM-12. When ordered with the kit, 4K 
BASIC on papertape is only $1.50! The basic 
system with IK of memory is $799. An 8K 
system with terminal interface (but no 
terminal) would run $1417. 

PCM, Box 215, San Ramon, CA 94583 


PROTOTYPING BOARD FOR 
AMI 6800 


This board is useful for hardware and 
softward evaulation of 6800-based 
microcomputer applications. It contains a 
built-in programmer for the S6834 EPROM 
and Tiny BASIC is also available on the 
EPROM at no extra charge. Communica¬ 
tion to the outside world is done with a TTY. 
A minimum kit is $295 and a fully tested unit 
with Tiny BASIC on EPROM is $950. 

American Microsystems, Inc., 3800 
Homestead Rd., Santa Clara, CA 95051 


10-30 cps and lets you display CPU register, 
memory locations, also load from and write 
to papertape. JOLT is not a mainframe, it’s 
one of those things where the boards stack 
one on top of another. The CPU board is 
$249 and other options are available. 

Pehaco Corporation, Jolt Sales Agents, 
Microcomputer Associates Inc., Dept. A, 
111 Main Street, Los Altos, CA 94022 





MINI-MICRO DESIGNER 

The MMD-1 is an inexpensive 
educational microcomputer with easy bread¬ 
boarding capabilities. It has a keyboard 
entry system and is intended for use at the 
machine language level and not for 
sophisticated applications. The MMD-1 is 
based on the 8080A chip and has on-board 
PROMs to control keyboard entry. A 
complete MMD-1 kit is $350. Bugbook III 
provides extensive documentation including 
60 experiments for the MMD-1 in its 592 
pages. $14.95. 

E & L Instruments Incorporated, 61 First 
Street, Derby, Connecticut 06418 



COMPUTER TRAINER 

The Model 300 Computer Trainer is a 
completely assembled and tested, ready-to- 
use computer which comes complete with a 
20 experiment lab manual written for use 
with a college physics, electronics, or 
computer course. Since the manual assumes 
no knowledge of computers or digital 
electronics, it is also ideal for self-teaching. 
The first lab is simply loading and reading 
memory, and the last experiment is inter¬ 
facing the computer to a TTY. 

The unit comes with 128 words of memory 
and is based on the MOS Technology 6502 
chip. The Trainer with lab manual is $99, 
power supply is $10, and hardware and 
programming manuals are $10. 

Ohio Scientific Instruments, Box 374, 
Hudson, Ohio 44236 


18 


CREATVE COMPUTING 




CALCULATORS 


ASKING THE CALCULATED 
QUESTION 

NOVUS presents a calculator for the older 
siblings of the young kids who use that wise 
old owl QuizKid calculator described in the 
Sept/Oct catalogue. It’s the more serious, 
more versatile QuizKid 11. This lets the user 
choose a type of problem (addition, mul¬ 
tiplication, subtraction or division) and a 
desired speed, then presents a timed series of 
ten problems. The child gets two tries at the 
correct answer after which it is displayed. 
The score is revealed at the end of the series. 
With a game adapter and over 1200 
problems it’s a hoot of a value at $24.95. 

To order and for information on QuizKid 
11 and other exciting calculator and 
mathematic learning aids contact: Mr. Jay 
Hemming, Educational Marketing 
Manager, National Semiconductor, 1177 
Kern Avenue, Sunnyvale, CA 94086. 


BIORHYTHM CALCULATOR 

If you’re one of those biorhythm freaks 
then you’ll be interested in a new Casio 
calculator called a Biolator, which in 
addition to performing regular 
mathematical functions, also computes your 
biorhythm. It has a 99 year calendar which 
permits you to calculate the number of days 
since your birth (if it was in this century— 
tough luck, senior citizens). The biorhythm 
is supposedly a representation of a person’s 
physical, emotional, and intellectual states. 
Suggested retail price is $29.95. Look in a 
local department store because we don’t 
have Casio’s address. 


MISC. 


TECHNOLOGY EXCHANGE 
SERVICE 

Technotec is a system available from over 
5000 computer terminals in more than 150 
metropolitan areas worldwide. Its purpose is 
to get together those who have useful 
inventions or know-how with those seeking 
to acquire new technology, in the form of a 
“Techno-Stock.” Techno-Stocks in a par¬ 
ticular area of interest can be located easily 
by entering keywords. Technotec isn’t an 
information system, but is a communication 
system built around a central data base. A 
general information manual is $3.50 (Order 
No. 76073300). 

Control Data Technotec, Inc., Box O, 
Minneapolis, MN 55440 


NOV-DEC 1 976 


TERMINAL SYSTEMS DIVISION 
DAYTON 

We have a number of new and challenging 
opportunities involved with the hard¬ 
ware/software design and development of 
real-time financial terminals. Immediate 
needs are at all levels in the following areas: 

PROGRAMMER/ 
SYSTEMS ANALYSTS 

These positions require knowledge in the areas of micro¬ 
processors and minicomputers based on real-time 
operating systems. Responsibilities will be to participate 
in the design of software development and write test 
software for mini and micro based real-time operating 
systems in a distributive network. 

An opportunity also exists for participation in the archi¬ 
tectural design of an Automated Health Care System. 

Candidates should have a BS/MS degree in Computer 
Science or Math and at least 3 years programming ex¬ 
perience. Experience with assembly and COBOL 
languages is necessary. 


SYSTEM DESIGN 
SOFTWARE 

These positions require the ability to provide technical 
expertise and leadership in the area of real-time terminal 
control and batch operating systems. Responsibilities 
will be to translate and interpret the state-of-the-art in 
operating systems to an assigned terminal control 
project and to select, influence and affect broad tech¬ 
nical directions in software. Will be responsible for 
coordinating complex distributed processing operating 
system software development which will support ap¬ 
plications coded in high level languages and run in both 
microcomputer and minicomputer mode environments. 

Candidates should have an MS degree in Computer 
Science, Systems Engineering, or Math, and 7 to 10 
years programming experience with at least 5 years in 
operating system design and development. 

These positions are at NCR's Terminal 
Systems Division in Dayton, Ohio. If you 
qualify and are interested in these oppor¬ 
tunities, submit your resume and salary re¬ 
quirements to: 

Robert L. Opalek, Manager 
Employment Department 
Terminal Systems Division-Dayton 
NCR Corporation 
Dayton, Ohio 45479 


NCR 


An Equal Opportunity Employer 


19 












A Creative Computing Equipment Profile . . . 


TEKTRONIX 4051 
GRAPHICS SYSTEM 

by Stephen B. Gray 
Gray Engineering Consultants 
Darien, CT 


The Tektronix 4051 is one of several hard-wired BASIC 
computers (which can be programmed only in BASIC), but it 
is the only one that also offers graphics, as well as the abil¬ 
ity to function as a terminal. I had the good fortune to be able 
to borrow a 4051 for a month, and I'd like to tell you about 
this fascinating desk-top (or pedestal-mounted) graphics 
computer. First, a look at the hardware, then later the soft¬ 
ware. 

The Hardware 

The main keyboard offersthefull 128-character ASCII set 
with both upper and lower case; 96 printing characters and 
32 control characters. Several additional built-in character 
fonts permit the use of accented vowels and special signs 
such as the British pound sign. To the right of the main key¬ 
board is a numeric keypad which, when used with nearby 
keys for the four arithmetic functions plus parentheses and 
exponentiation, permits fast calculator-type computations, 
without line numbers or any programming at all. The key¬ 
pad is also a help when entering numeric data into a BASIC 
program. 

A group of ten user-definable keys, used in conjunction 
with the shift key, allows up to 20 pre-defined program sub¬ 
routines to be individually selected for injection into the 
main program. The first 99 line numbers are reserved for 
these User Definable keys; each key transfers program con¬ 
trol to the first of four line numbers, enough for a very short 
subroutine or, more likely, enough for a GOSUB to a larger 
subroutine. If the last of the four lines is not a RETURN (or 
END or STOP), the system keeps executing statements in 
sequence, in the user-definable routines, until it finds a 
RETURN, STOP or END, or until it continues into the main 
program beginning at line 100. These keys are very handy 
for menu selection, and a plastic overlay card you can write 
on keeps track of what you've got them programmed for. 

At top center of the keyboard, five keys provide ten func¬ 
tions for program editing, permitting characters to be 
changed, deleted or added. A nearby Auto Number Key will 
provide a line number automatically for each BASIC state¬ 
ment before it is entered on the keyboard, starting with 100 
and incrementing by 10; the initial line number and incre¬ 
ment can be changed to whatever is desired. A Step 
Program key permits executing the current BASIC program 
one step at a time, starting at the first line or, by using a 
GOTO, at any line desired. 

At top right are three keys for peripheral control. The Auto 
Load Key causes the internal magnetic-tape unit to load the 
first program found on the current tape cartridge. The 
Rewind key will rewind the tape cartridge backtothe begin¬ 
ning, and Make Copy causes the optional Hard Copy Unit, if 
one is attached, to make a paper copy of the information on 
the display. 

The vertical slot at the right of the display holds a 300- 
kilobyte magnetic-tape cartridge; more about that when we 
get into software. 



The display uses an 11 -inch-diagonal direct-view storage 
crt, with 72 characters per line, 35 lines per page, 1024 x 
780 addressable graphic points. Clever feature: the data on 
the screen dims to a lower (but still readable) level after a 
few minutes, to conserve energy; pressing the shift key re¬ 
stores the original brightness. 

The MPU used in the 4051 is a 6800; a 32k ROM holds 
the operating system. The 4051 is supplied with an 8- 
kilobyte RAM for work space; memory is expandable in 8k 
options up to 32k maximum. 

Hardware options include the 4631 Hard Copy Unit for 
dry-process copies; 4924 Magnetic Tape Unit for 300k 
external bytes; 4662 Digital Plotter for X-Y plotting and 
digitizing on a 10-by-15-inch work area; 4952 Joystick for 
positioning the graphics cursor in interactive graphics. 

Communications Option 

A communications option, which adds an RS-232C inter- 

face, lets the 4051 act, in terminal mode, like a Tektronix 

~4012 Computer Display terminal, with keyboard inputs 

going direct to whatever computer the 4051 is connected 
to, and with returning data and graphics going up on the 
screen. The same option lets the 4051, in communications 


20 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 









mode, use the internal tape unit to send or receive data at 
speeds up to 2400 baud. An output-only RS-232C inter¬ 
face, for line printers, is also available. Either option is in the 
form of a plug-in ROM package, about the size of two 
cigarette packs, which fits into a receptacle in the back of 
the 4051. There are three others, which I haven't seen: 
matrix, editor, and binary-loader ROM packs; more are in 
the works. 

Software and Manuals 

Four manuals and two pre-recorded tapes come with the 
4051. The two manuals on BASIC will be covered in a future 
review. The tapes are duplicates; one is to be put "in a safe 
place; it exists to minimize down time in the event the 
operational tape is accidently erased." Each tape contains 
these programs: system verification, tutorial, Y-only data 
plot, X-Y data plot, histogram plot, and function plot. The 
"4051 Graphic System Operator's Manual" contains all the 
information that's on the tape, with amplification, plus an 
introduction, sections on "keys, buttons and switches" and 
routine maintenance, appendixes on error messages, 
specifications, and installation, a glossary, and an index. 
The fourth manual is the "4051 Graphic System Reference 
Manual." 

System Software Tape 

For the beginner, the first of the seven programs to use 
would be the Graphics System Tutoria l, which has a menu 
with these six alternatives: the whole tutorial, keyboard 
operations, demonstration of graphic software, program¬ 
ming primer, graphics commands, index (for picking and 
choosing). 

System verification, which is meant to be used when the 
system is first received, and "at any later time when sys¬ 
tem performance is in doubt," takes less than 10 minutes, 
and is mostly automatic. The Software Verification part 
requires the user to press keys as requested, and the 
system responds with various phrases and test patterns. 
The Firmwave Verification checks out system memory, and 
runs all by itself in less than a minute. 

The two best features about all the canned plotting pro¬ 
grams is that they're automated as much as possible, and 
there is a great variety of statements that let you do just 
about anything you can think of, plus some that might not 
have occurred to you. Let's look at a function plot to see how 
it all works. A function can be plotted in a very short time, if 
the user chooses to let the system set certain parameters 
automatically. If he/she wishes, the user can override 
these "default values" and, for instance, move either axis 
and/or change its length, change the data range on either 
axis, choose either a line or point plot, and choose from five 
point-plot symbols. 

After the user has chosen Function Plot from the master 
menu, he/she is asked to enter the function, either single¬ 
variable in Y or double-variable in X and Y. The screen then 
shows the Function Plot menu, listing all the parameters 
one can enter. Most of these can be skipped by letting the 
4051 set most of them with default values, but there are of 
course several that must be entered. This is done by 
selecting the first menu item, Display Function, which will 
then cause the 4051 to ask the user to enter only three 
numbers: beginning and ending independent variables, and 
increment. 

After the increment is entered, and the user presses 
Return, the screen displays the function, complete with 
axes and labels. If the plot is satisfactory, that's it. But if the 
user wants to smooth out the curve, he can enter a smaller 
increment and replot in a few seconds. By calling up the 
Function Plot menu, he can make further changes as 
desired. If he forgets what changes he's made, selecting 
List Parameters from the menu will provide a reference 
chart. 


As a BASIC computer, the 4051 is excellent. All the 

necessar y statem ents are here, plus some I'd never heard 

oTbetare which proved not only fascinating but useful .^FUZZ 
decides just how close a comparison isto be made between 

two noh-zero numbers; iu, tor instance, compares 

two numbers to ten digits. This gets around the problem of 
what are often necessarily imprecise mathematical opera¬ 
tions. SECRET permits a program to be executed only; "it 
can never be listed, saved, or in general output from 
memory." SUM "returns the algebraic sum of the elements 
in a specified array." 

Graphics 

Now to the specialty of the 4051, graphics. With its 
amazing variety of statements, the 4051 can create just 
about anything you've got in mind, as far as static display 
goes. VIEWPORT a nd WINDOW determine which part of a 
curve will be shown where on the screen. AXIS p roduces an 
X-Y axis, with tic marks as desired. After you specify an 
initial point with MOVE and a pair of coordinates to indi¬ 
cate how far from the lower-left corner of the screen you 
want the point to be, a DRAW s tatement with coordinates 
will specify a line. A square can thus be drawn by using one 
MOVE and four DRAW statements. This can be simplified 
with arrays to a single DRAW statement by using DIM, four 
pairs of coordinates in DATA, READ X,Y and DRAW X,Y. 

RMOVE and RDRAW "free the programmer from having 
to7igure out the absolute coordinates of each data point" by 
interpreting the numeric constants as relative increments 
to the position of the cursor. ROTATE w ill move a pattern, or 
single vector, through a specified angle, in either direction, 
once or more than once (with FOR/NEXT), and is a main 
ingredient in creating one type of graphic art. 

All this information on graphics is given in the Reference 
Manual, which also has sections on language elements 
(constants, variables, operators, strings, DIM, LET), 
environmental control (presets for degree/radian/grad, 
trace/normal, initializing the system, fuzzy comparisons, 
etc.), system control (CALL, COPY, HOME, PAGE), memory 
management (DELETE, MEMORY, SPACE), controlling pro¬ 
gram flow (END, FOR/NEXT, GOSUB/RETURN, GOTO, 
IF/THEN, RETURN, RUN, STOP), handling interrupts, 
input/output operations (DATA, OLD, PRINT, READ, SAVE, 
SECRET, etc.), math operations (ABS, COS, INT, LOG, PI, 
SQR, etc.), character strings (ASC, DIM, INPUT, LEN, VAL, 
etc.), programming editing, debugging and documentation 
(DELETE, LIST, REMARK, RENUMBER, SET), language 
syntax (rules for line numbers, keyboards, data items, etc.), 
and appendixes on error messages, tables (ASCII character 
values, character priority, fonts, etc.), interfacing informa¬ 
tion, and glossary. 

The two manuals are very good, except that the examples 
in the reference-manual sections on the various state¬ 
ments are too skimpy in many places. 

There's a lot more to say about the 4051, but if you're 
interested in this computer, a demonstration is of course 
much better than any number of words. Tektronix ha s 
several fine demo tapes, such as the one I had, which gives 

examples olapplications in mechanical ennineerinn (conic 

analysis), electrical engineering (filter design), business 
(financial analysis, depreciation, savings and loan), mathe¬ 
matics (integration), statistics (regression analysis), plus 
sections on peripherals, available character sets, stock- 
market bar chart. Crosshair Simulation (a sort of draw-it- 
yourself), three-dimensional plot, winding up with a 
Capability Demonstration, which describes the 4051, 
shows a wide variety of graphs, and ends by drawing the 
Tektronix logo. 

If there's anything Tektronix left out, I wasn't able to 
discover it in four weeks of using this marvelous machine, 
the 4051 Graphics System. 


NOV DEC 1 976 


21 























A Creative Computing Equipment Profile . . . 


HEWLETT PACKARD 
HP-S5 CALCULATOR 

“The Minimum Computer” 

by James Blodgett 


The Hewlett-Packard HP-25 programmable calculator is 
the cheapest complete computer system on the market 
today. This statement may raise debate. For one thing, I am 
saying that the HP-25 is a computer while several cheaper 
programmable calculators are not. Second, despite its 
simplicity I am saying that it is a complete system. Both 
points are matters of definition and debate, but my defini¬ 
tion makes good sense. 

What, after all, makes a computer? At what level of com¬ 
plexity does a programmable calculator become a com¬ 
puter? At present common usage gives no precise distinc¬ 
tion. But since loops, nested loops, and alternate sequences 
of operations are fundamental to programming, I would like 
to suggest that a system is a computer if it can do them, and 
is not otherwise. In general, this means that it must be able 
to do some form of conditional branching. Besides, I have 
tried programmable calculators without conditional 
branching, and they are simply not much fun. They can do 
only one short sequence of steps in one way, so the com¬ 
plexity of their programs is strictly limited. Conditional 
branching allows complexity. And the HP-25 is the 
cheapest programmable with conditional branching. 

(This is not to say that a cheaper programmable might not 
be the best buy for many people. For some practical ap¬ 
plications, a little programming goes a long way. And on 
some models, it is possible to simulate simple loops by 
pushing some version of the “run” button over and over.) 

Another possible point of contention is my calling the HP- 
25 a complete system. I call it complete because it 
computes, by itself, and it is all you have to buy. At this 
writing (Feb 76) there are more ambitious computers 
advertised in the price range of the HP-25, but they are by 
no means all you have to buy. For example, the Altair 680 
CPU board in kit form lists for the same price as the HP-25 at 
retail ($195), although the 680 is not yet discounted while 
the HP-25 is. But the 680 CPU board is a "complete 
computer" only to those who are ready to wire it into some¬ 
thing else—and that something else had better include 
some memory. Even the 680 "complete" kit with memory, 
front panel and case for $345 is a complete computer only 
to those who are willing to enter and read out both data and 
machine language instructions in binary, do this each time 
the machine is turned on, and flip switches forever. This 
might provide interesting recreational computing for some 
people, but the machine by itself is certainly not very 
practical. Most Altair users buy at least a terminal, the 
Basic language (available as of Feb. 76 only on the Altair 
8800) and the extra memory necessary to support Basic, 
and these additions put the system in the $2,000 range. 

One might also question my statement that the HP-25 isa 
complete computer because of features which it lacks, or 
because of the general limits of the system. Hewlett- 
Packard, for example, calls the HP-25 only a "program¬ 
mable calculator," while their HP-65 is "fully program¬ 
mable" because it can store its programs on small magnetic 



cards. Such storage is certainly a useful feature, but it is not 
a necessary feature for programming to intellectually "feel 
like" computer programming. The HP-25 feels like a com¬ 
puter, and it doesn't need a card to do so. 

(The new Texas Instruments SR-52 also has a card, and 
twice the memory and program capacity of the HP-65 for 
half the price. Readers contemplating purchase might well 
consider the SR-52; the HP-25 is the cheapest but not 
necessarily the best choice.) 

The HP-25 is in fact quite limitedfor a computer: it has49 
steps of programming and 8 memory registers, plus 5 
registers in its operational stack. Refusing to call it a com¬ 
puter because of its limits, however, is mainly a matter of 
preference for larger systems. I would call the HP-25 a 
computer despite its limits. The system it defines is not at all 
trivial. It can do enough so that it is fun to program, and it is 
also useful, and will do a reasonable fraction of the personal 
computing that a mathematically oriented user would do 
with a much larger system. 

Indeed, the very fact that the system is limited has both 
practical and recreational advantages. A larger system can 


22 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 













be very impractical when one is seduced into wasting days 
solving what had at first appeared to be a simple problem, 
writing hundreds of steps, debugging, and improving the 
output. If one has an HP-25 and a problem can't be solved 
on it, one knows that the problem will take a substantial 
amount of programming on a larger system, and this is a 
very good point at which to ask whether the solution is 
worth the trouble. 

Another recreational and educational advantage of a 
limited system is that one is much more quickly forced to 
optimize programs. Optimal programs are much better 
esthetically than sloppy programs, and there is a real 
feeling of craftsmanship in knowing a system well, trying 
every trick in the book, and finally being able to shoehorn a 
complicated problem into a limited number of steps. 

An example of a recreational problem may give some idea 
of the possibilities and limits of the HP-25. I have been 
trying since I bought the machine to make it play ticktack- 
toe. I am almost certain that this is impossible in such a 
limited machine, but it is less impossible than one might 
think at first. 

For example, there are nine positions in a ticktacktoe 
board—how can one store the contents of these positions in 
only eight memory registers? Well, the machine can take a 
number with a decimal point and throw away either the 
fractional or the integral component. Thus it is possible to 
extract a specific digit in a larger number by placing the 
decimal point in front of the digit, taking the fractional 
component of the number, then multiplying this fractional 
component by ten and looking at the integral component. It 
is also possible to place a digit in any decimal position by 
multiplying the digit by ten-to-the-power of the desired 
decimal position and adding the resulting number to the 
number in a storage register. (Unfortunately the ten-to-the- 
power function is slightly off in the last decimal place for 
ten-to-the-seventh and higher powers, but if necessary this 
can be corrected by a few steps of programming.) Since one 
can both take out and also put a number in any decimal posi¬ 
tion, the ten decimal places in one register can be used as 
ten different memory locations. Thus if necessary a repre¬ 
sentation of the ticktacktoe board can be stored in only one 
register. 

A more fundamental limitation for implementing tick¬ 
tacktoe is that the small number of branches which are 
possible in 49 steps seems much lower than the number of 
decisions a computer must make in playing ticktacktoe. The 
number of branches possible for the HP-25 is much less 
than 49 because a branch requires from one to five steps 
depending on what one isdoing. Inorderto branch it may be 
necessary to bring the two numbersto be compared into the 
two appropriate registers, specify the logical test to be 
applied, and specify the two different directions to go to de¬ 
pending on the outcome of the test, and this totals five 
steps. 

My latest thought is to sequentially peel off digits from a 
sequence of memory registers and use these digits as a sort 
of higher-level programming language to specify the se¬ 
quence of application of a group of subroutines, thus in a 
sense expanding the programming capacity, lam fairly sure 
that this will not work, since the peeling-off and branching 
program alone will take quite a few steps, and there might 
be room for only about four or five very short subroutines. 

Whether or not it can be implemented, the ticktacktoe 
problem is an example of the complexity and richness of 
strategy possible in what seems at first to be a very limited 
system. And despite the difficulty with ticktacktoe, by no 
means are all games excluded. For example, the Applica¬ 
tions Programs book that comes with the HP-25 includes a 
moon-landing program and a version of nim. And I have 
written an ESP testing game, a ball-bouncing game, and 
others. Games which can be implemented tend to be rela¬ 
tively simple, however. The best game is the system itself. 


Hints on Buying a 
Used Teletype 

by David Ahl 

If you've been following the Teletype ads, you know that 
the ASR 33 has been sold for well over 10 years. It was, for 
many years, the workhorse of the TWX and Telex networks 
(although the real heavy-duty workhorses of the networks 
are the Models 28, 35, and 37). 

The ASR-33 is Teletype Corporation's most popular 
product in history with over 600,000 delivered as of early 
1976. Many of these are now on the surplus market 
available both "as is" and reconditioned. Here are some 
hints if you're considering buying a used unit. 

Serial Numbers 1 -200,000 are likely to be dogs. In "as is" 
condition they're worth $250 or less. They're generally 
tough to refurbish because so many parts must be replaced. 
(By the way, the Serial Number is hard to find—you have to 
take off the cover and look for a little plate, generally 
covered with dirt and oil, in the back corner). 

Serial Numbers 200,000-450,000 may be OK as is, 
particularly if they've been under a regular maintenance 
contract. As is price should be $350-$400 or so. 

Serial Numbers 450,000 and higher should be in good 
shape. Nevertheless, it's worth seeking out units that have 
been under a maintenance contract. 

Reconditioning generally adds $250 or more to the price; 
generally a reconditioned unit of any age is going to cost 
$700-$900. While this is only $100-$300 under the new 
price ($969 plus), sometimes a reconditioned unit is 
actually better — all the initial bugs have been worked out 
and it should be in good adjustment. 

Of course, another alternative is to buy a new one. Base 
price direct from Teletype Corp. is $969. However, for most 
minis and/or micro systems, you're going to have to add 
about $75-$200 worth of bits and pieces from the computer 
vendor to make it all work. 

The other big question—where do you get one? Many, 
perhaps most, second-hand computer or terminal dealers 
will not sell you an ASR-33. The reason, as a salesman from 
American Used Computer told me is that dealers can make 
a lot more money renting them than selling outright. Hence, 
you're going to have to make a few phone calls to terminal 
vendors listed in the Yellow pages or from ads in 
Computerworld, Computer Hot Line, etc. Chances are you'll 
find someone with a temporary overstock and maybe even 
someone who cares about hobbyists or schools and will sell 
you a '33. After six phone calls in the metro New York area I 
found 3 dealers willing to sell me a '33 for prices between 
$775 used and cleaned to $875 reconditioned. I eventually 
decided to wait out the 8 to 12-week delivery cycle and get 
one for $969 through the MITS-Teletype Corp. deal. In 
theory, delivery today is better, but don't bank on it. 

There are many models of the '33, but by far the most 
common model in use by schools and hobbyists is the ASR 
(Automatic Send Receive) i.e., it has paper tape reader and 
punch, friction feed (as opposed to sprocket or pin feed on 
the paper). The order number is: 33 ASR/TC or 3320/3JA. 



NOV DEC 1 976 


23 







A Creative Computing Equipment Profile . . . 


ODYSSEY 
VIDEO GAMES 


by David H. Ahl 


Ah, the fascinating path of product development. The 
original Odyssey game from Magnavox (1972) didn't beep. 
It didn't even keep score. It was expensive (in the multi¬ 
hundred dollar range). It came with overlays to put on the 
face of the TV set and little program cards which allowed 
you to play a fair number of games — skiing, submarine 
chase, shooting gallery, and, of course, tennis/ping pong. 

However, it wasn't nearly as good as Atari's Pong (the 
original one to appear in taverns, arcades, and shopping 
centers). Magnavox responded by filing a suit against Atari 
claiming that they (Magnavox) held the patents on ping- 
pong/tennis ball bouncing algorithms for video displays. 
Panic in Atari-land until it was determined (with the aid of 
yours truly) that CRT ball-bouncing algorithms had been 
around since 1957 at places like MIT and CMU and other 
homes of computer hackers. Having won their case, Atari 
added insult to injury by putting together a home version of 
Pong, lining up Sears to distribute it, and pow(!) the battle 
for the home video game market was off and running. 

Magnavox, not to be outdone, introduced the Odyssey 
200. In all fairness, I should point out that this product 
would have been introduced whether or not the suit was 
won. The 200 was, in most ways, an improvement over the 
first Odyssey. No overlays, no program cards, and it kept 
score and beeped. However, it had only three games — 
tennis, hockey, and "smash." 

Tennis is the standard CRT tennis. Hockey has a wall on 
each side of the screen with an opening in it. The puck 
bounces on the wall; the object is to get it in the opening 
(goal). Smash is a wall ball game. There can be only two 
players, although in tennis and hockey each player can 
control a main paddle and a second, drone paddle (in tennis 
it's a doubles partner, in hockey it's a goalie). 

A significant improvement over earlier TV games is the 
horizontal as well as vertical paddle control as well as ball 
control. Once you hit the ball, you can control its vertical 
path until it is hit by the opposing player. Sports purists will 
object that this is not an accurate simulation of the real 
thing, however, it makes for a much more interesting game. 
And why shouldn't electronic games be different, or even 
unique (heaven forbid)? There is also a ball speed control. 

Because each player has three controls and only two 
hands, (at least those from this planet), the game can be very 
exciting or very frustrating. Since there are essentially two 
variables and one constant per player, there are many 
possible playing strategies. It is conceivably possible to 
have two or three players per side. This is not particularly 
satisfactory for casual play although things improve after a 
few beers and/or as team-mates get to know each other's 
moves. 

This year there are three Odyssey games. The 300 is a 
basic unit with Hockey, Tennis and Smash. It has only one 
control and drones (goalies) only in hockey. The main 
additions this year seems to be an automatic serve and 
3-position skill switch. It keeps score, beeps, and has 
automatic English. Retail price is around $69. 



Odyssey 400 is essentially an updated 200 as described 
above with mainly an addition of automatic serve. Retail 
price is around $100. However, if you don't need automatic 
serve, you might want to look for a 200; in this area they're 
being heavily discounted to make room for the newer 400. 

Odyssey 500 is the top-of-the-line model with colored 
playing fields and players. It also has a fourth game, soccer. 

Magnavox loaned us an Odyssey 300 for testing. It seemed 
rugged and, as they say in Road and Track, the controls fell 
nicely to hand. It connected to the VHF antenna terminals 
easily. The only pain was finding 6 "C" batteries to make it 
work (my DC power supply was busy elsewhere). Since the 
unit was a loaner I didn't explore the insides too extensively 
to see if any interesting mods were possible. I wouldn't 
encourage this type of thing anyway; it doesn't use a 
microprocessor or memory so it wouldn't have much 
general purpose versatility. (Please don't take that state¬ 
ment as a challenge to prove me wrong.) 

Summary: if you like eye-hand coordination games and 
have $70 (or more) burning a hole in your wallet, Odyssey 
might be opere pretium. 

If you're a comparison shopper, you should be aware that 
Atari/Pong now have four games on the market this year 
starting with the bottom-of-the-line PONG IV ($65) and 
ranging to a 4-player, 5-game super model ($100) available 
through Sears. J.C. Penney has still another model ($60). 
Unisonic's Tournament 2000 plays 6 games and includes a 
separate electronic pistol ($88 in K-Mart). Also several 
electronics parts vendors are selling kits in the definitely 
non-bargain price range of $50-$90. 


24 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 

















Richard Kuzmack 

Chesapeake Microcomputer Club, Inc. 
1435 Layman Street 
McLean, Virginia 22101 


In this year's first issue of Creative, Vo/. 2, No. 1, we 
published Steve Gray's "Building a MITS Altair 8800: First 
Impressions." It is only fitting that in this last issue of the 
year we follow-up on that article with an account of 
interfacing-to and using the Altair 8800 once built. We 
asked Rich Kuzmack, President of the Chesapeake 
Microcomputer Club, if he'd write the follow-up for us, and 
this is his account. 


want to eventually be running FORTRAN or APL, one of the 
smaller BASICS is a good idea for a start. It will come in very 
handy later on for that large applications program that 
won't fit after one of the larger language interpreters soaks 
up its share of the available memory space. 


BUILDING A 
MITS ALTAIR 8800 

GETTING A 
SYSTEM TOGETHER 


Once you have completed and checked out the assembly 
of your Altair 8800 main frame kit you are ready to develop a 
usable system by adding memory, input/output interfaces, 
and the input/output devices themselves. This is a good 
point to review your system plan, or start one if you have 
neglected this step thus far. Even if you are just beginning to 
think of maybe getting a personal computer of your own, 
stay tuned. In this article we will explore together the kinds 
of decisions you'll probably have to make in planning your 
system and the considerations you'll want to keep in mind 
as you make them. 

The process of making a system plan usually consists of 
deciding how to get the most out of what you have the least. 
The money that you are able to devote to your system is 
most often going to be the limiting factor, although some 
will find the availability of time to work on it even more 
limiting. Neither is necessarily an absolute limit once you 
realize that you can substitute some patience for some of 
either one. It may take you longer to save up the money or 
assemble a board, but over the long haul you will have 
fewer regrets and headaches if you take the extra time 
required to avoid low performance components and hasty 
construction practices. 

The other side of the system planning process makes you 
think about what you want to do with your computer. 
Indeed, there is acertain logictoplanningwhattoput intoa 
system based on what you want out of it, but many 
computer hobbyists have not been especially concerned 
with this question. So let's not address the end use, but 
think instead in terms of the high level programming 
languages you'd like to have running on your system. 
Several are available for your Altair's 8080 CPU, and the 
amount of memory and I/O needed to support a particular 
language can provide you with a first cut at some goals for 
planning your system. A popular starting point that makes a 
lot of sense is the BASIC language because it can start small 
and grow with your system, from Tiny BASIC to the 4,8, and 
12K versions available from MITS and others. Even if you 


Getting In ... and out 

Two kinds of input/output will be needed before your 
system is ready to run. First, some means to get to and from 
a non-volatile mass memory medium, such as audio 
cassette or paper tape, will be required to take advantage of 
available machine-readable software and to provide a way 
to save software you've written or modified yourself. 
Second, you will want a keyboard for program and data 
entry, and an output display of some kind. There are many 
possible solutions to performing these functions because of 
the many products on the market today that were designed 
to work in your Altair, and because of the variety of both 
new and used equipment originally intended for com- 
merical systems. 

In deciding what to get for my own system an important 
factor was the flexibility that could be squeezed out of each 
board. A board that can be made to serve more than one use 
saves both time and money that might otherwise go to 
buying and building another board and adding another slot 
(maybe even another mother board, tool). I made my 
decision and purchases several months ago and am quite 
pleased with my choices, but your circumstances and goals 
may be very different from mine and there is certainly more 
to select from now. While I hope the specifics of my system 
are helpful, you'll have to extract and modify to suit your 
own needs. 

The input/output interfaces in my system consist of three 
boards: the MITS four port parallel board, the Processor 
Technology video display module (VDM-1), and the MITS 
audio cassette recorder board. The advantage of this 
configuration is that two of the three devices to be 
interfaced are already available in most homes: a black- 
and-white television set and a cassette recorder. Only the 
keyboard has to be bought, and one that is encoded for 
ASCII (American Standard Code for Information In¬ 
terchange) can usually be had for under $50 on the surplus 
market, while keyboards with other encoding schemes cost 


NOV DEC 1 976 


25 










a lot less but might have to be translated to ASCII in 
software. (It only takes 51 2 bytes to go both ways for an 8- 
bit code, but if you don't want to spare the memory, stick to 
an ASCII keyboard.) 

The parallel board was purchased initially with just one 
port to connect to a surplus keyboard. Using the Motorola 
6820 Peripheral Interface Adapter (PIA) chip, it is an 
extremely simple, tremendously versatile piece of 
hardware. But there's a catch — in order to get the thing to 
work at all you have to configure the little beast with 
software that is more than a little complex. I thought it was 
my own stupidity that was the cause of my problems with it 
until I started getting phone calls from other members of our 
local computer club who were having the same kinds of 
trouble. The inadequacy of the documentation that came 
with the kit was eventually recognized by the presentation 
of expanded documentation in Computer Notes. Hopefully 
the explanation supplied with the kit has also been revised 
by now. 

The Video Display Module presented the opposite 
problem. The instructions for using it were quite adequate, 
but the assembly manual is confusing in the great amount 
of detail concerning intermediate checks and tests, some 
requiring an oscilloscope which I don't have. So instead, I 
simply put the board together carefully without stopping for 
any of the intermediate checks, and winding up with a board 
that seemed to work fine. I attributed the difficulty I was 
having adjusting the picture to the TV set I was using until I 
found out that two diodes had been left out of the kit and the 
assembly manual. Installing the diodes solved the problem, 
and the current version of the VDM has corrected this 
ommission. 

Modifying an old TV set to work with the VDM seemed 
beforehand like it would be a fairly formidable task, but 
following the guidance provided in Don Lancaster's Byte 
article on television interfacing (reprint provided with kit) 
proved to be quite straightforward. Getting the parts and the 
schematic for an old TV delayed things somewhat. The 
Sam's Photofact for my set was temporarily out of stock, as 
usual, and there is no point in even opening the set's 
cabinet until you've studied the circuit diagram and the 
component layout. The few parts that are needed were not 
available in the indicated type numbers at several parts 
sources, but after running a few poor stockmen ragged I 
was able to get equivalent substitutes for one of the three 
suggested circuits. A useful technique in such situations is 
to have a list of part numbers for each alternative made up 
ahead of time and when one of them can be filled 
completely note down beside each part the designation on 
the substitute part. That way when you get home you won't 
have trouble figuring out what was a substitute for what. 

The audio cassette recorder interface consists of two 
separate circuit boards: a TTL-level serial I/O port and a 
modem (modulator-demodulator) board. Assembly of the 
boards presents no particular difficulties. The assembly 
instructions, however, say to mount the two of them 
together, but that way the unit will take up the space of two 
slots inside your Altair case. Then, too, I had another reason 
for not mounting them together. For audio cassette 
recording and playback the modem at that time operated on 
the same 2025/2225 Hertz band that a standard "103" 
style originate modem uses to receive data. Of course, if the 
modem will only be used with magnetic tape, just the 
2025/2225 band is needed. However, I also wanted to use 
mine as a 103 data set so for this it had to be able to send 
on 1070/1270 Hertz and receive on 2025/2225 Hertz. 

The ACR modem has the capability to do both jobs by 
changing the six jumper wires that control the modulator 
frequencies. To have both a standard 103 originate modem 
and an audio cassette recorder modem all in the same board 
(but not both at the same time) simply replace those six 
jumpers with a non-shorting six pole, two position rotary 



switch, connecting the numbered row to the "B" row for 
audio cassette operation and to the "A" rowfor use with an 
acoustic coupler to your telephone handset. 

This dual capability of the modem board is no accident, by 
the way. It is used as a standard 103 style originate modem 
in the MITS COMTER 256 terminal. However, in order to 
make the modem less sensitive to the speed variations of 
low quality cassette recorders MITS announced a modem 
modification changing the width but fortunately not the 
center of the operating frequency band. That modification 
would make it much more difficult to use the same modem 
board for both applications. As I was having no trouble with 
speed variation on my cassette recorder I decided not to 
implement the modulator portion of the change, but only to 
widen the lock range on the phase locked loop of the 
demodulator. Thus I can read tapes written with either the 
old method or the new method, plus easily switch over to 
full 103 style operation. The only wrinkle that has been 
introduced into my plan by the modification is the potential 
problem that might come up if I wanted to give a tape 
written on my system to someone using a poor quality 
recorder, but even that would only require a brief loan of my 
recorder to get the data into the other system one time to 
then be dumped out using that other system's equipment 
alone. 



. • you forgot to tell him it's an antique computer. He thinks 
it's ours..." 


26 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 























Deciding About Memory 

Some of the toughest decisions you'll face with your 
system will have to do with internal system memory. You 
have more different memory boards to choose from than 
any other type of board. Most of this memory will be random 
access read/write (RAM), but at least some read-only 
memory (ROM) can save you a lot of work each time you 
turn the power on. Programmable ROM of the erasable 
variety is the best bet in the long run, because you can count 
on wanting to make changes from time to time. But it is 
RAM that requires the greatest care since it is needed in 
relatively large amounts. 

Cost is certainly a most important factor, but do not 
neglect the relative advantages and disadvantages 
associated with the options you have in access speeds, 
board densities, and rates of power consumption. In some 
cases you may also want to give special consideration to 
some of the design features which may or may not be 
available on particular memory boards. These features 
include battery backup capability, wait state flexibility, 
switch selectable addressing, and memory protect features. 
When you get to the bottom line, however, you'll see that 
what really drives the decision process is your answer to the 
question, "How much memory do I want in my system when 
I'm all done?" You will also want to consider, "How will this 
memory board perform if I someday want to upgrade my 
ALTAIR from the 8080 CPU to some new processor chip?" 
(Selected chips of the Z-80, for example, can run at a clock 
rate of 4 MHZ, which means memories with access times 
longer than 250 nanoseconds would need a wait state to 
work in such a system.) 

Well, there it is, again! We're back to the need for a good 
system plan, including a pretty solid idea of the use to be 
made of the system. But how else can you make an 
intelligent decision? If you'll need a lot of memory you had 
better plan to conserve power consumption, while a smaller 
system memory would allow you to use some of the really 
low cost but power-hungry memory boards. Then, too, 
memory can be added in increments of either 4, 8, or 16K 
bytes with readily available kits, and although the 4K boards 
may be easier to afford, the higher density boards may be a 
better buy in terms of cost and power consumption per byte. 
They will certainly take fewer slots for the same total 
memory size, and adding slots to your ALTAIR takes both 
time and money. 

In my own system I decided in favor of high speed memory 
and started off with 20K of dynamic RAM in five 4K boards 
from MITS. There was a prolonged delay in getting them up 
and running because the boards had to be recalled for 
factory rework and replacement of defective parts. In the 
meantime MITS lowered its price on that kit and gave a 



substantial credit on a board-for-board basis for earlier 
purchases. So even though I could have done better with 
higher density boards now available based on the regular 
prices, the credit tilted the decision in favor of five more 4K 
boards. 

Yes, that's a lot of memory, but my system plan includes 
applications needing that much. In particular, I have 
become very fond of the APL programming language, 
including an extensive library of programs that I've written 
over the past few years. When APL becomes available for 
the 8080 it is expected to require 24K bytes for the 
interpreter, on top of which memory will be needed for user 
workspace. Since APL has the greatest memory require¬ 
ment of the uses I have for my system, it serves to determine 
the amount of memory I need. 

Plan for Repairability, Too 

As you implement your system plan you will be pouring in 
a lot of money and you can expect it to work for a long time 
before any of its parts fail. But eventually something's going 
to go bad, and it is now while you're putting it together that 
you should allow for the future event. My plan for 
repairability consists of never soldering an integrated 
circuit directly into a printed circuit board. I use sockets 
supplied with the kit and socket strips for all other ICs. If a 
board doesn't work because of a bad 1C somewhere, it is 
then quite easy to pull and replace one 1C at a time until the 
culprit is found. 



I have used over 5,000 of these strip sockets and 
recommend them on three grounds in addition to the fact 
that I've never had any problems with them. First, they are 
relatively inexpensive when purchased in strips of 1,000, 
costing about a penny a pin. Second, they allow you to get at 
the printed circuit traces under the 1C, which regular 
sockets don't. This feature saved me a lot of trouble when 
MITS announced that a trace had to be cut that was under 
the memory protect flip-flop on my 4K boards. Third, while 
they may not last through as many insertions and removals 
as a regular socket, if it becomes necessary to replace them 
it's easy because each is a separate piece to be unsoldered. 
Removing a regular socket would be as difficult as removing 
an 1C. 

Finally, while I have you thinking about repairs, you 
should make a simple addition to your ALTAIR that will 
lessen the likelihood of its needing repair. Add a metal oxide 
varistor (GE-750) across the power line at the terminal, 
block to protect your system rrom aamage due to high 
voltage transients. With hundreds or thousands of dollars of 
hardware inside your ALTAIR case, you can hardly afford 
not to invest the three dollars or so that it takes for this 
protection. 


NOV DEC 1 976 


27 













BEYOND BASIC 

by Alan B. Salisbury 


INTRODUCTION: 

There are many levels of exposure to and interest in 
computers. It's probably safe to assume that the majority of 
Creative Computing's readers are familiar with BASIC and 
the computing power which it makes available to them. An 
equally safe assumption is that many readers do not have a 
very deep knowledge of the computer beyond that which 
they obtain through BASIC. This level of computer interest 
and understanding is sufficient for many purposes and 
represents a very large community of computer users. 

The vast majority of users of computers have little or no 
knowledge at all of the computer. In fact, they may not even 
be aware at times that they are using a computer! These 
"users" include, for instance, the people who drop a quarter 
into a slot to play a tennis or hockey-type game using a video 
screen and hand controls. Slightly more involved, perhaps, 
is the person who sits at a terminal to play STAR TREK after 
someone else has loaded in the correct program and set the 
system up ready for play. Countless other applications could 
be listed in which the fact that a computer is doing the 
behind-the-scenes work may or may not be apparent to the 
user. 

This article looks in the other direction, beyond BASIC, 
toward a deeper level of understanding of the computer. 
The purpose of twofold: first, it will help the reader to put 
BASIC in its proper perspective in relation tothe many other 
types of computer software; second, it may (hopefully) 
stimulate many readers to expand their knowledge of 
computers and thus open up whole new areas of excite¬ 
ment and challenge. 

BASIC IN PERSPECTIVE ... 

To begin with, let's review exactly what BASIC really is. 
Simply stated, BASIC is a programming "language." Like 
any language, it has a vocabulary with precise meanings 
and a set of rules as to how that vocabulary may be used 
(semantics and syntax). BASIC can be used to express 
problems and their solutions in a form that is readily under¬ 
standable by humans—it looks reasonably close to English 
and algebra for instance. 

Generally, BASIC is not directly understood by com¬ 
puters! (There are a very few special computers which 
actually are built to directly understand BASIC, however.) 
Hence, a translation is required from a user program 
written in BASIC into another form which is directly under¬ 
standable by the computer. BASIC is therefore usually 
referred to as a "higher order language" (HOL) when 
compared to a "machine language." 

There are other higher order languages, of course, in 
addition to BASIC. The most popular of these are FORTRAN 
(FORmula TRANslation), ALGOL (ALGorithmic Oriented 
Language) and COBOL (COmmon Business Oriented 
Language). A host of additional languages exist, highly 
tailored to specific uses. All of these languages are similar 
in that they require translation into a machine language 
before the computer can actually run the program. 


COMPILERS . . . 

Higher order languages wouldn't be of great value if the 
programmer was saddled with the job of doing the transla¬ 
tion from BASIC, for instance, to machine language. 
Fortunately, this is the type of job that a computer can do 
very well. Programs called "compilers" have been written 
to do thistranslation for us. Acompilertakesasits"input"a 
higher order language program (called the "source pro¬ 
gram") and produces as its "output" a machine language 
program (called the "object" program) ready to be run on 
the computer. We thus have a two-step process including a 
compile (translate) phase and an "execute" (run) phase. 

One of the important and very nice features of higher 
order languages is that they are generally "machine 
independent." That is, when writing in BASIC, the pro¬ 
grammer doesn't need to know if his program will be run on 
an Interdata 7/16 or a DEC PDP-11/40 for example. 1 
Different translators will, of course, be required, one for the 
Interdata machine and one for the DEC machine, sincetheir 
machine languages are quite different. These translation 
programs are usually provided by the manufacturer of the 
hardware. 

MACHINE LANGUAGE ... 

We have mentioned machine language many times 
without really addressing how it differs from higher order 
languages. This can best be understood by looking at the 
familiar four-function calculator, which in many ways is a 
very simple computer. This calculator can do four functions: 
add, subtract, multiply and divide. This is, in effect, the 
vocabulary of "instructions" which the calculator under¬ 
stands. We can use the four-function calculator to solve any 
problem whose solution can be reduced to a series of steps 
(a "program") using the +, -, X, i operations. 

As an example, let's consider the BASIC statement: 

LET X = A+5 

We can translate this into a series of steps (using the 
calculator) such as the following: 2 

Clear 
Enter A 
Depress + 

Enter 5 
Depress + 

Read X 

Here we have expanded the vocabulary to include the 
human actions (clear, enter, depress for input, and read for 
output). In the language of the machine/human team, the 
above program is a translation of the BASIC statement. 

Moving from the four-function calculator to a mini¬ 
computer is not difficult. One major difference is that the 

1 1n fact, some differences in BASIC may occur between manufacturers. 

2 The exact sequence will depend on the logic of the particular calculator. The 
sequence shown is typical. 


28 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 





vocabulary, or "instruction set," is greatly increased; a 
typical mini may have 70 or more functional instructions 
which it understands, including the familiar add, subtract, 
multiply and divide. New capabilities here include such 
things as "shifting" numbers left or right, or "comparing" 
two numbers to determine if one is bigger, smaller, or the 
same as the other. 

Another significant difference is in the amount of 
memory available. Our calculator example, above, did not 
include memory. Many calculators have one or more 
"memory" locations in which a number may be "stored" 
and later "recalled" by use of appropriate keys (which 
actually add to the instruction set vocabulary of the 
calculator.) Computers generally have thousands of such 
memory locations which can be used to store not only 
numbers (or "data"), but they can also be used to store 
instructions so that the entire program can be stored within 
the computer. 

It is this last fact (program storage) which makes the 
computer the powerful instrument it is. With the program 
stored inside the computer, the operator need only depress 
the "start" or "run" switch and the program can then be 
executed at electronic speeds, typically in millions of 
instructions per second. Add to this the fact that the 
computer can make "decisions" (for example, using a 
"compare" instruction, go on to different parts of the pro¬ 
gram depending on the results of the comparison) and you 
have a good explanation of the power of the computer. 

Returning to our previous example, a sequence of mini¬ 
computer type instructions to perform the LET X = A+5 
function might be 

CLA A 

ADD Five 

STO X 

CLA, ADD and STO are abbreviations (called "mnemonics") 
for the full instruction names. For example, CLA could be 
"Clear and Add," meaning "clear the working (ac¬ 
cumulator) register to zero and add to it the contents of the 
memory location indicated" (in this case. A). ADD would 
simply be "add to the accumulator register" without 
clearing beforehand, and STO would be "store" the 
contents of the working register in the indicated memory 
location. Each of the many instructions of the computer has 
a similar detailed and precise meaning. 


BINARY NUMBERS 

In the binary number system, only two symbols 
(digits) may be used, 0 (zero) or 1 (one). The decimal 
system, on the other hand has ten symbols: Othru 9. 
Just as in the decimal system, when counting causes 
usto run out of symbols in one column, we carry 1 into 
the next column and start over, the same process 
occurs in the binary system. The difference is that a 
carry in the decimal system occurs for every count of 
ten, while it occurs in the binary system for every 
count of two. Therefore, "place values" in the binary 
system are powers of 2 (1, 2, 4, 8, 16, etc.) as 
compared to place values in the decimal system 
which are powers of 10 (1, 1 0 , 100, 1000, etc.). 

Conversion from binary to decimal is a simple 
process requiring only that the place values cor¬ 
responding to 1 's in the binary number be added up. 
As an example: 

<j) co </> co y> to to 
^ CM CD 00 ^ CN r— 

CO CO i— 

0 10 110 1 


32 

8 

4 

45 


To complete the picture, we have to now point out that 
even the above three instruction program sequence is not 
really in machine language. Computers don't normally 
understand letters and words such as CLA. In fact, 
everything within the machine must ultimately be in the 
form of binary numbers, consisting only of combinations of 
ones and zeros. This is the fundamental unit of information 
within the machine, known as the "bit" (for binary digit). 

Memory locations and working registers within a 
computer generally contain a fixed number of bits which is 
the "word" length of the computer. Minicomputers typically 
use 12 or 16 bits per word; alternatively, as few as 8 bits (the 
"byte") or as many as 64 bits may be handled at a time. The 
significance of word length lies primarily in the magnitude 
of the numbers that can be stored in a single word; fewer 
bits means smaller numbers or, more important, greater 
round off error since, in effect, fewer significant digits can 
be saved. Speed is also affected, since a wider word length 
usually means that more bits can be processed at onetime. 

It was mentioned earlier that memory is used to store 
Loth data and the program. Program instructions are stored 
in memory words according to precise formats. As an 
example, a 16-bit word may be divided into 6 bits for an 
"operation code" (specifying the particular instruction to be 
performed) and 10 bits for a memory address (the location of 
the data to be used). Our CLA A instruction would thus 
include a 6-bit code for CLA (it might be 001010) and a 10- 
bit binary address for the location we chose to call A (this 
could be 0000101101 if location 45 were used for A). 3 The 
complete machine language instruction would then be: 


001010 0000101101 
Opcode Address 


ASSEMBLERS ... 

Once again we are faced with the problem of translating 
from the mnemonic (or symbolic) form of instruction into 
the numeric machine language form. The computer comes 
to the rescue as before with a special translation program 
(available from the hardware manufacturer) which 
"assembles" machine language programs from the sym¬ 
bolic instructions. An "assembler" program takes as input 
symbolic assembly language source statements and 
produces as its output a binary machine language object 
program ready for execution. Unlike higher order language 
programs which are largely machine independent, 
assembly language programs are very machine dependent 
since each type computer has its own, generally unique, 
machine and assembly language. 

In addition to relative machine dependence or in¬ 
dependence, there are other considerations involved in 
understanding the differences between compilers and 
assemblers. Our example showed that a single BASIC 
statement resulted in several assembly language-type 
instructions. Each assembly language instruction, on the 
other hand, usually causes a single binary machine 
language instruction to be generated. It is not uncommon 
for a good assembly language programmer to write a pro¬ 
gram requiring fewer machine instructions than one 
written in a higher order language and compiled into 
machine instructions. The assembly language program¬ 
mer may therefore find that his program requires less 
memory and executes faster. The price paid for this possible 
bonus is usually the extra time (and training) required to do 
assembly language programming. As compilers become 
more efficient, this difference may narrow. 


3 See inset box for an explanation of binary numbers. 


NOV DEC 1 976 


29 












LOADERS ... 

We have talked about compilers, assemblers, source pro¬ 
grams, and object programs. How do these programs get 
into the machine? One (horrible) alternative is for an 
operator to load the binary instructions through the console 
of the machine, one word at a time by setting switches or 
entering them through a small calculator-like keyboard. 
Preferably, the program could be punched onto paper tape 
or cards beforehand and then simply read into the machine. 
The capability to "read'' a program into memory requires 
that another program already must be in memory to cause 
the reading to take place! Such a program, called a 
"loader," must include all of the many detailed instruc¬ 
tions required to read a card, for instance, and then move 
all of the 80 characters or other binary information read 
from the card into designated locations in memory. In fact, 
all input and output operations are fairly complicated at the 
machine language level and the manufacturer usually 
provides "utility" programs so that the programmer doesn't 
have to write these himself. For the same reason, a 
"library" of other useful routines is generally available 
including such things as math functions. 4 

SYSTEMS SOFTWARE . . . 

Compilers, assemblers, loaders and utilities are collec¬ 
tively referred to as "systems software" and are usually 
written by the manufacturer's "systems programmers." 
The using programmer is, in contrast, referred to as an 
"applications programmer" and his "applications pro¬ 
grams" are the programs written to solve the user's 
problem. 

Starting with a program written in BASIC, there are many 
steps required before the output is available. First, a loader 
must be in the machine. (Loading the loader is itself a job to 
be done by the operator!) Then the BASIC compiler can be 
loaded in, the source program read, and the translated 
object program produced as output. Now the object pro¬ 
gram is read in (again by a loader) and then executed 
producing the final results. Input/output utilities and math 
routines may well have been required and loaded in along 
with the object deck. 

The smallest mini (or micro) computers are often 
operated in just this fashion, with the operator handling 
many separate programs and manually controlling the 
sequences of loading and execution. This job, too, is one in 
which the computer can lend a hand. 

OPERATING SYSTEMS . .. 

The most important of "systems" programs is one called 
an "operating system" (sometimes "executive," "monitor," 
"control program") which takes over these tasks of sched¬ 
uling, allocating space in memory, calling other systems 
programs, etc. With an operating system (OS), the using 
programmer can simply state the kind of job he wants to do 
(using a special "job control language" requiring a card or 
statement of the beginning of his program), and the^OS will 
handle many of these details for him. Here, then, we have 
another form of computer language, that which is used to 
talk with the operating system. 

With an OS in control of the computer, our sequence of 
events is simplified. The source program deck, written in 
BASIC, together with a job control card, may be all that the 
user must place in the input card reader. After reading the 
job control card, the OS will call in the BASIC compiler 
(probably stored on a disc file), load it, translate the source 
program to a machine language program, loadthe machine 
language program together with all required utility and 


4 Hardware math instructions are normally limited to add, subtract, multiply, 
and divide. Trig functions, square roots, etc., require programs that compute 
these higher math functions using the basic instructions. 


library programs, and finally execute the object program. 
What we have described here can be called a "Compile- 
and-Go" scheme, in which the system does not have to stop 
between the translation and execution phases. 

INTERPRETERS ... 

Our brief tour of systems software has omitted one 
important type of program, the "interpreter," which is 
particularly important to BASIC users. The use of a BASIC 
compiler to first translate a BASIC program into machine 
language for later execution is one method available for the 
BASIC user to execute his programs. It may be the only 
method, depending on the computer and its available 
systems software. Frequently, however, a BASIC inter¬ 
preter may be available to execute BASIC programs, either 
in addition to a compiler or in place of it. 

An interpreter differs from a compiler in one major area: 
an interpreter does not translate the source program, but 
rather it effectively executes it directly. Each line of a BASIC 
program is examined by the interpreter to determine what 
actions will be required to execute (or, more accurately, 
evaluate) the statement. The interpreter then performs 
those actions by immediately executing the appropriate 
portions of its own program, and then moves on to the next 
source BASIC statement. This is in contrast to the compiler 
process in which the entire BASIC program is translated to 
a unique set of machine language instructions which are 
then executed after the compiler has finished its job. 

To illustrate how the two systems differ, let's consider 
how they would process the BASIC statement: 

LET X = 2+3 

A compiler would produce as itsoutput a machine language 
program consisting of several instructions, which when 
executed later would calculate the desired result and assign 
it to the variable X. An interpreter, on the other hand, would 
produce as its output the new value of X which is 5; no in¬ 
structions or new program would be produced by the inter¬ 
preter. 

What differences does the user see between a compiler 
and an interpreter? Not many. Both methods ultimately 
produce the same end results. If the program is to be 
executed many times, there is a benefit to using the 
compiler method; in this method, it is possible to obtain a 
copy of the object program produced by the compiler, on 
punched cards or tape for instance. Then when the user 


^CREATIVE COMPUTING 



30 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 























wants to execute his program again, he can merely load it 
and execute it, without going through the time consuming 
translation phase. Compilation therefore offers the poten¬ 
tial of time-saving efficiency. 

INTERACTIVE SYSTEMS ... 

Interpreters generally offer an advantage of their own in 
that they may be "interactive.” This allows the program¬ 
mer to sit at a teletype, for instance, with the interactive 
BASIC interpreter in control, and get immediate "feed¬ 
back" from the interpreter as he enters his BASIC state¬ 
ments. Errors can be immediately identified by the inter¬ 
preter and corrected by the programmer. Also, the results of 
executing each BASIC statement can be available im¬ 
mediately, thus making the system react to the user as if it 
were a sophisticated calculator. For a new program, it may 
therefore be possible to get an answer faster using an inter¬ 
preter than using a compiler, since the interpreter does not 
have to go through the separate translate and execute 
phases. 

DEBUG PROGRAMS ... 

A special type of interactive program often available for 
mini's and micro's is the debug program, sometimes called 
a monitor. 5 A debug program is used to aid in debugging a 
machine language program. It typically permits the pro¬ 
grammer to insert "break points" in his program which will 


R This use of the term "monitor” is somewhat different from the OS type 
"monitor." 


cause the program to pause in its execution and then allow 
the programmer to examine the contents of key registers 
and memory locations. In this way, the programmer can 
walk through the execution of his program and if there is a 
"bug" in the program, he can isolate it (hopefully). 

TEXT EDITORS . . . 

Other programs besides interpreters may be interactive. 
One of the most common is a "text editor" which can be 
used to help create a new program or "file." If a BASIC 
compiler were available through a time-sharing system, an 
interactive text editor could be used to build or create a 
BASIC program using an on-line terminal; the text editor 
would permit the programmer to make changes such as 
adding or deleting individual characters or whole lines. 
When the-programmer is satisfied with his program, he 
could then ask the system to compile it and execute it. The 
software performing the actual time-sharing operations 
serving many users simultaneously is essentially a more 
complex type of operating system as we have previously 
discussed. 

SUMMARY . . . 

We have now completed a very general introductory over¬ 
view of systems software. The reader should now have a 
reasonable understanding of the various types of programs 
involved, the functions they perform, and howthey relate to 
one another. The types of systems programs available and 
the functions they perform are summarized in the accom¬ 
panying table. 


TABLE OF KEY SYSTEMS PROGRAMS 


Systems Program 


Name 

Function 

Input(s) 

Output(s) 

Comments 

Compiler 

Translate HOL 

Program to Machine 
Language Program 

HOL Source 

Program 

Listing. Machine 
Language Object 
Program 

Object Program may 
be punched out or 
loaded into memory 

Assembler 

Translates Assembly 
Language Program 
to Machine Language 
Program 

Assembly Language 
Source Program 

Listing. Machine 
Language Object 
Program 

Object Program may 
be punched out or 
loaded into memory 

Interpreter 

"Executes" HOL 
Program 

HOL Source 

Program 

Problem Solution 

Output is only what 
the source program 
produces. Interactive 

Loader 

Loads Machine 
Language Programs 

Machine Language 
Object Program(s) 

Machine Language 
programs ready to 
be executed 

Loaded into memory 

Text Editor 

Creates or edits 
files 

Source Programs, 
data, etc. 

Listing or copies 
of files when 
requested 

Interactive 

Debug Program 

Facilitates isola¬ 
tion of program 
bugs 

Commands to 

Debug Program 

Responses to 
commands, e g. 
register contents, 
memory contents, etc. 

Runs along with 
user's object 
program to be 
debugged 

Operating System 

Overall control of 
computer system 
and its resources 

Job Control 

Language or 
equivalent. All 
other inputs to 
computer 

Responses to JCL 
commands. Log of 
system status, error 
messages to 
operator, etc. 

Schedules jobs, allo¬ 
cates memory, etc., 
to minimize need 
for operator 


NOV DEC 1 976 


31 






















SNOBOL 


by David Touretzky 


SNOBOL is a string processing, pattern matching lan¬ 
guage, that breaks all the restrictions associated with 
numerical languages like FORTRAN or dp languages like 
COBOL Here are some key points: 


4. Complete debugging tools are available, including 
traces, variable dumps, and program controlled error hand¬ 
ling. Interactive implementations, such as SITBOL, allow 
convenient debugging as the program executes. 


1. No fixed data types. A variable's type is determined by its 
values. Changing the value changes the type. The data¬ 
types available are: string, integer, real, double precision, 
array, table, pattern, name, and compiled code. The table is 
a type of hash table: its subscript is a string instead of an 
integer. 

2. The heart of SNOBOL is the concept of pattern matching. 
A SNOBOL statement is made up of one or more of the fol¬ 
lowing fields: 

label string pattern = 
string branch 

Every pattern match either fails or succeeds. The branch 
section causes branching to a specified label based on the 
results of the pattern match. For example: 

MYLABLE CARD 'CAT' I 'DOG' = 

'ANIMAL' :S(L1) 

In statement MYLABEL, the variable CARD is searched for 
any occurrence of 'CAT' or 'DOG'. If the test succeeds, the 
string which was matched is replaced by the string 
'ANIMAL', and, since the match succeeded, the program 
would branch to LI. If the test failed, the program would 
continue with the next statement. Pattern matching can be 
much more complex, and can include many levels of al¬ 
ternatives, calls to user or system functions, recursive 
pattern definitions, and self-modifying patterns. Many spe¬ 
cial characters are used in pattern matching operations. For 
example, the $ is an assignment operator. 

TEXT SPAN('A') $ C = 

will match the first contiguous string of A s in TEXT and as¬ 
sign that string to the variable C. In addition, the string will 
be deleted from TEXT, since a null expression appears to the 
right of the equals sign. 

3. Concatenation is accomplished by writing expressions 
next to each other. For example: 

MESSAGE = 'THE BILL IS' 

(COST ★ 1.05) 7 

In this case, COST would be multiplied by 1.05, converted 
to a string, and concatenated with the other strings in the 
expression. Strings may be of any length. They expand and 
contract through pattern matches or assignments. 


5. As you have seen, SNOBOL has no verbs, no data re¬ 
strictions, and no artificial constructs like blocks, proce¬ 
dures, or cases. The language is based on special symbols, 
such as =$.★?&:()(§), and system functions which generate 
patterns (such as CONVERT). There are also some system 
variables, such as &ALPHABET which contains every pos¬ 
sible character, &STLIMIT, the maximum number of state¬ 
ments that may be executed and &ERRNO, the code 
number of the most recent error interrupt. 

6. SNOBOL is available on many machines, including the 
IBM 360, the DEC system 10, and UNIVAC 1108. Two ex¬ 
tended versions are commonly in use: SPITBOL and 
SITBOL. The best introduction to the language I have seen is 
the SNOBOL 4 Primer, by Ralph and Madge Griswold, pub¬ 
lished by Prentice-Hall. 

7. SNOBOL can be used for many things, including file 
manipulation, database editing, music generation, lan¬ 
guage analysis and translation, game theory, computer as¬ 
sisted instruction, and the simulation of automata. 



"And where were you when the FORTRAN hit the fan?" 


32 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 






















A RETAIL COMPUTER STORE? 
YOU GOTTA BE KIDDING!! 


by Jim Dunion and Ron Roberts* 


FAR FROM THE MADDENING CROWD 

The doors are boarded up now, and the raging mob seems 
to have subsided. For awhile at least I'm safe. The light is 
flickering low on this, my last candle, and I realize that time 
grows short for me to put these thoughts onto paper. For 
tomorrow brings a new day, a new mob, a new call from 
David Ahl wondering where this article is. Time indeed, 
grows short. One year in the retail computer store business. 
One year. Is it possible that only a year ago this madness 
descended upon me? That only a year ago I was a 
reasonably happy, nonchalant student, quietly pursuing a 
graduate degree in computer science and then -ah- but now 
I'm getting ahead of myself. First of all, what we're talking 
about is retail computer stores in general, and the 
experiences of one such store. The Computer 
Systemcenter, in particular. What we have seen in this past 
year is no lessthan the birth of an industry. Now, with a full 
year under our belt, it is time for the first self-assessment. 
Retail computer stores — from where did they come, how 
have they developed, and where are they going? While we 
certainly can't speak for all stores, we can provide insight to 
the structure and events surrounding one such store's 
existence. 

THE BEGINNINGS 

In recent years, there has been an increasing tendency 
for technology to advance faster than society can adapt to 
its changes, a fact particularly visible within the field of solid 
state electronics. Most of those involved in either elec¬ 
tronics or computer technology are aware of the recent and 
continuing advancements which have led to the develop¬ 
ment of the "computer on a chip." Although the im¬ 
plications of readily available low cost computer power 
have been discussed many times in many different forums, 
it has been almost invariably within technical, non-public 
circles. For the general publicthe usual interaction with any 
form of computer technology has been via the "DO NOT 
FOLD, STAPLE, OR MUTILATE" admonishment. To John Q. 
American, it has little mattered whether the phone 
company used their 1 st, 3rd or 300th generation equipment 
to produce his bill. To him, a bill is a bill, and due to the 
aloofness and mystery which has always surrounded it, a 
computer is a computer. 

With the advent of the microprocessor, however, this 
public perception of computers began to change. The 
availability of the personal computer as a consumer item 


*The Computer Systemcenter , 3330 Piedmont Road NE, 
Atlanta, Georgia 30305. (404) 231-1691. 


initiated tremendous strides towards public enlightenment 
of the computer as a useful, entertaining tool. Now, 
computer stores are everywhere, hobbyists clubs exist in 
almost every major city, and news coverage and public 
visibility is swelling on a national, even worldwide, basis. 

But it was not always like this. When Dick and Lois Heiser 
pioneered the first computer store in southern California in 
the fall of 1975, every move was a gamble. How was the 
public going to react? Was the initial surge due to a sincere 
interest, or due to a shortlived "fad." After just beginning to 
recover from a nationwide recession, would the public 
climb upon an expensive, yet unproven movement? And the 
equipment! Could it be obtained? Would it work? Could it be 
kept working? While the popular computer concept was 
dawning, the task remained to acquaint and convince the 
public of its existence and stability. Sure, fhere were a few 
computer clubs around, but they were technically slanted 
away from the typical consumer. Already existing, too, were 
the professional computer societies, but they had (and still 
have) no room for the novice. Some popular computer 
publications were around, but very few people knew of 
these. And buying a computer by mail-order? Un¬ 
assembled? My face still pales at the thought! 

Where oh where, then, was the solution? What structure 
could tie down the loose ends, and present a united, 
uncomplicated front to the consumer? Obviously, (NOW its 
obvious) the retail computer store. The revolution was 
underway! 

A retail computer store? At first the idea seems 
incredible, but why not? The equipment is available, it is 
priced at levels that consumers can afford, and the 
applications are endless. With this challenge in mind, and 
with the four partners crossing their fingers, the enterprise 
known as The Computer Systemcenter came to life. Being 
an unprecedented concept, there were no guidelines to be 
used in formulating this marketing strategy, no viable way 
to survey public attitudes, no anything but talent, 
enthusiasm and ideas. Although possibly not the best and 
certainly subject to change, herein is contained a summary 
of our philosophy, methods, and initial experience in this 
endeavor. 

WHY OPEN A RETAIL COMPUTER STORE 

This, of course, was the first and foremost question to 
be resolved. Although no member of the partnership had 
ever claimed being pioneers to any movement, the 
following reasons were used to justify the adventure: 

• To create public awareness that solid state technology 
has reduced the size, delicate nature and cost of 
computers while greatly increasing their reliability. 
Cost reductions, of course, demand the greatest 
emphasis. 


NOV DEC 1 976 


33 








• To present this low-cost computer technology in a 
setting with which the public is comfortable and well 
acquainted. The open marketplace arrangement, with 
freedom of movement and selection, should be as 
advantageous with computer products as it is, for 
example, with stereo or photographic gear. 

• To bring together under one roof the preferred items 
from the equipment lines of several manufacturers. In 
the old computer world to even suggest crossing the 
lines of one manufacturer with another is almost 
sacrilegious. 

• To provide a local and publicly accessible source of 
computer expertise. The public, particularly in its initial 
learning stages, is going to be seeking a qualified 
technician with a layman's delivery. 

• To generate public understanding, confidence, and 
most of all, enthusiasm about the coming revolution in 
popular computers. This obviously is a challenge and a 
responsibility. The psychological factors encountered 
by springing computers in everyone's face may well be 
endless, so we'll hold back any discussions on this. 

• To be an innovator in a concept which will alter the lives 
and thinking of this generation and all following 
generations. Hopefully, too, this innovation will turn us 
a tidy reward in our generation. Innovations alone do 
not pay bills. 

Okay, so we were convinced. And luckily so were enough 
investors to get the project off the ground. We then turned 
to the next question. 

WHAT SHOULD A RETAIL COMPUTER STORE BE? 

This should certainly be viewed as no small matter. After 
all, it's not everyday that one can set the philosophical 
guidelines for a revolutionary (there's that word again!) new 
concept. In addition to the normal properties any complete 
retail establishment should exhibit, such as good manage¬ 
ment, products and reputation, the unique nature of the 
computer as a product demands additional efforts and 
responsibilities. These include: 

• A much higher level of competence. The retail 
computer dealer must become a cross between a 
personable department store clerk and a seasoned 
computer scientist (with a touch of showmanship a 
definite plus). 

• An ability to communicate and to educate. Rarely will 
the typical consumer know less about what the product 
is and does than he will in this environment. 

• An understanding of public apprehension and mis¬ 
conceptions about computers. Unfortunately, although 
through no real fault of their own, computers have 
received a lot of bad publicity and blame. And too, the 
"Big Brother" or "Numbered Society" image probably 
lurks in the back of almost everyone's mind. 

MOVING FROM IDEAS TO REALITY 

The notions of the armchair philosopher are good only to 
a certain point. It soon became time to move from concepts 
into a working concern. Actually establishing a real live 
computer store involved dozens of mundane questionsthat 
had to be answered and literally hundreds of small 
problems to solve, not to mention a few humdingers. Here is 
the rationale behind some of our major decisions. 

• WHERE SHOULD THE STORE BE? We felt that the 
crucial aspect of our business was presenting com¬ 
puter technology to the people. Therefore, we had to be 
situated in a location with high visibility and 
accessibility. We finally chose a location in a new, 
small shopping center in northeast Atlanta. 



• WHAT SHOULD THE PHYSICAL LAYOUT BE? Our store 
is broken into four sections. The public access is, of 
course, into the showroom where we continually 
maintain at least one complete system up and running 
for inspection and demonstrations. Equipment 
assembly, checkout, storage and repair is performed in 
what we call our work room, which is essentially a 
technicians shop. Then, for solitude and to retain some 
semblance of mental stability, we have our personal 
offices. Although tiny in size, this has not been a 
particularly important factor since we have had little 
time thus far to sit down. The last, and possibly most 
unique section of our establishment, is a large 
combination classroom/conference room. As a con¬ 
ference room, this area has had more or less 
predictable uses. However, due to the nature of our 
product, we felt that a classroom was mandatory for 
public instruction, seminars, and lectures. 

• WHAT'S IN A COMPUTER SHOWROOM? In deciding 
what products to carry at the store our principle 
decision was which major line of computers to support. 
We felt that we could only offer adequate support and 
services for a single type of mainframe. Also, our 
supplier would need to offer the computers in both kit 
and assembled form for a reasonable cost. Lastly, the 
production and delivery capabilities of the manufac¬ 
turer would need to adequately support us as dealers. 
At the time we made our decision, only one company 
seemed to fulfill these requirements. That was MITS of 
Albuquerque, New Mexico with the Altair 8800 line of 
computers. This decision was of course only a 
beginning, because even though MITS had several 
peripherals available for the Altair, we could not offer a 
complete product line strictly using their equipment. 
Thus we began making arrangements for various 
terminals (hardcopy, CRT, and color graphics) as well 
as several "plug compatible" devices such as inter¬ 
faces to a standard television. We also felt it necessary 
to carry as many of the publications of interest to the 
general computer user as possible. Examples of these 
include BYTE, Peoples Computer Company, and 
Creative Computing. In the software area, we offer 
system programs such as monitors, assemblers, and 
text editors as well as a BASIC language. Computer 
games is an area of great interesttothe consumer, and 
lends itself to entertaining but informative demon¬ 
strations. Consequently much of our initial effort has 
been in that area. 

• HOW ABOUT SERVICES AND SUPPORT? Having the 
necessary equipment in the necessary place only 
serves as part of the attraction for any retail operation. 


34 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 












The ability to develop, troubleshoot, and maintain 
hardware and software is a must, as is the ability to 
speak (or at least listen) intelligently about pertinent 
matters on a consultation basis. And again, due to the 
very nature of our product, user community support is 
of utmost importance. The public must understand or 
feel that they will be given the chance to understand. 
We offer, for example, free introductory classes (both 
hardware and software) to the purchasers of our units, 
with only a nominal charge to non-purchasers. For the 
do-it-yourselfer, an hour (at least) each evening is set 
aside for him to bring in his under-the-weather Altair 
and get free troubleshooting. Other community func¬ 
tions include the active support of the local microcom¬ 
puter hobbyist club, one of the largest of its kind in the 
nation. We also have gained the reputation as being a 
local depository of technical computer-related 
brochures and publications. Keeping abreast of the 
latest price changes and new product offerings is 
necessary for our survival. 

INITIAL EXPERIENCE 

October and November of 1975 were spent building and 
furnishing the store. During this period, we noticed a faint 
quickening of the public pulse at the shopping center where 
we are located. More and more people stopped by to talk and 
find out what type of place this was going to be. In 
November we were already working out of a half-finished 
store front. Finally, after months of preparation, we opened 
the doors on December 20, 1975. Since then the ex¬ 
periences have been truly remarkable. We have run the 
gamut from uproarious laughter to the utter frustration that 
seems destined to accompany any business operation. 
Problems? They occur by the dozens. Basically, however, 
they can be classified into one of two areas; either problems 
that are common to all small businesses, or problems 
unique to computer stores. 

The largest obstacle we have had to overcome is our own 
lack of business experience. Initially this didn't seem too 
important, but since then we evolved our own form of 
Murphy's Law: If something can be done wrong—we will do 
it wrong; and just to be sure, we'll do it wrong two different 
ways. We have certainly not been immune from the various 
small ailments that plague small businesses — lack of 
management expertise, supply problems, cash flow, bad 
checks, you name it. At times these daily problems seem to 
outweigh and overwhelm everything else, causing us to 
occasionally have to reach down deep and rely on a certain 
humor to see us through. One of our pet diversions is 
coining "Anti-Slogans" that seem to fit the mood. We have 
a few classics, such as. 

"Progress — We Sneer At The Term" 

"Problems Are Our Most Important Product" 

"Where Concepts Become Confusion-And Confusion 

Becomes A Way Of Life." 

The other issues with which we deal are those unique to 
computer stores. First, there is the basic task of letting 
people know what we're trying to do. Tothe average person 
who walks in off the street, we usually have to tell them that 
even though they can be used as such, we're not selling 
calculators. Then we have to expect two stock questions, 
"What kind of place is this?", and "Well, what can you do 
with these computers?" 

At first we would stammer around trying to pull together 
good answers, but by now it's practically a conditioned 
response. We hear one of these questions and bang! Put the 
old mind into AUTO and crank up the song and dance 
routine. I mean, we've got it down pat! 

To characterize our typical customer is impossible. 
Applications range from monitoring water levels in the 
depths of a sewer, to writing payroll checks, to controlling a 


model railroad in someone's basement. Users include 
extremely sophisticated systems programmers as well as 
complete computer novices. Actually, it's less frustrating 
dealing with a complete novice who is somewhat awed by 
computers than it is to deal with an IBM 370 programmer 
who views microcomputers as "Toys." When this happens 
(and it does happen), we just take them in our computer 
room and show the business system on which we perform 
our accounting and inventory control (Altair 8800A, 40K of 
memory, dual disk units, video terminal and printer, all built 
into a custom desk). It's almost frightening when you think 
it's all based on a $30.00 microprocessor. 

Our biggest miscalculation seems to have been just how 
much time is required by the computer novice. We tend to 
forget just how much there is to know about computers 
until we try to explain things to someone who thinks that a 
terminal is actually the computer. We've literally spent 
hours passionately pleading the case of Microcomputers to 
someone only to hear "Well, I'm really only in here killing 
time while my wife is shopping." 

And the joys of Kit-building. Ah, there's a story in itself. 
Someone buys a Kit, puts it together overnight, it doesn't 
work, he screams, and brings it in muttering "damn crappy 
equipment." Usually, the next thing we hear is "What do 
you mean, bad solder joints? I went to the NASA soldering 
school." Still, we have a certain obligation to help each 
customer get his system up and running. We've tried to 
accomplish this by setting aside a certain time each day, 
(6:00-7:00PM), during which we have a free software and 
hardware clinic. During this time anyone can bring in their 
sick machines and/or programs and we'll give them a hand. 

The latest issue we've had to deal with is the "software 
vacuum." People are discovering that after the machine is 
working, the real uses are just beginning. Canned programs 
are fine (programs written and debugged by someone else), 
but when it comes to writing one's own programs — well, 
there's more to software than meetsthe eye. To combat this 
situation, we have started a series of programming lectures 
entitled. The Art Of Creative Computer Programming 'This 
series is aimed at providing a novice programmer with 
insights about programming and a set of software tools and 
tricks to tackle his own programming project. 

WHERE DO WE GO FROM HERE 

In a year's time computer stores have evolved from a few 
timid, rather speculative ventures to a firmly established 
concept. The first generation of stores are highly in¬ 
dividualized with each having a different emphasis. In filling 
out the scorecard on ourselves, I would have to say that we 
set some very idealistic, but unrealistic, goals. But, there's 
no substitute for experience, and even with somewhat 
altered goals, our enthusiasm and energy still runs high. 

What about the overall industry? The approaches offered 
by the differing stores are quite varied. At one extreme is the 
store that attempts to act primarily as a computer 
supermarket, emphasizing a broad assortment of equip¬ 
ment for the customer. The other extreme is taken by stores 
that emphasize primarily their service and support. Of 
course, this is actually a continuum. As computers become 
easier to use, as the general public becomes more aware, 
and as the software vacuum is filled, the tendency will be to 
move towards the supermarket concept. In these early 
stages, however, education, service, and installing con¬ 
sumer confidence must be paramount to all other con¬ 
siderations. 

Would we do it over again? You can bet your solid-state 
bippies that we would. Each of our successes, whether a 
simple home computer or an intricate industrial system, 
causes feelings of pleasure and accomplishment. The 
dream of readily available computer power is now 
becoming a reality and we are sharing, and hopefully 
helping, in the transition. 


NOV DEC 1 976 


35 





RETAIL COMPUTER STORES 

COMPUTER STORE OF SAN FRANCISCO 


1093 Mission St. 

San Francisco, CA 94103 


ARKANSAS 

COMPUTER PRODUCTS UNLIMITED 
4216 West 12th St. 

Little Rock, AR 72204 
(501) 666-2839 

ARIZONA 

TRI-TEK, INC. 

6522 North 43rd Ave. 

Glendale, AZ 85301 
(602) 931-6949, 931-4528 

CALIFORNIA 

APPLIED COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY 
1038 Merced 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
(415) 527-6760 

BARGAIN ELECTRONICS 
201 8 Lomita Blvd. 

Lomita, CA 9071 7 
(213) 539-2260 

BITS N' BYTES 

1216 West Wilshire Ave. 

Fullerton, CA 92633 
(714) 525-9613 

BYTE SHOP NO. 1 
1063 El Camino Real 
Mountain View, CA 94043 
(415) 969-5464 

BYTE SHOP NO. 2 
3400 El Camino Real 
Santa Clara, CA 95050 
(408) 249-4221 

BYTE SHOP NO. 3 
2559 So. Bascom Ave. 

Campbell, CA 95008 
(408) 377-4685 

BYTE SHOP NO. 4 
1225 Ocean St. 

Santa Cruz, CA 95060 

COMPUTER CENTER 
8205 Ronson Rd. 

San Diego, CA 92111 
(714) 292-5302 

COMPUTER COMPONENTS, INC. 
5848 Sepulveda Blvd. 

Van Nuys, CA 91411 
(213) 782-7924 

COMPUTER KITS 
1044 University Ave. 

Berkeley, CA 94710 
(415) 845-5300 

THE COMPUTER MART 
2333 Beverly Blvd. 

Los Angeles, CA 90057 
(213) 484-2002 

COMPUTER MART OF LA 
625 West Katella No. 10 
Orange, CA 92667 
(714) 633-1222 

COMPUTER MEDIA, INC. 

10090 N. Blaney, Suite 6 
Cupertino, CA 95014 
(408) 867-0885 

THE COMPUTER STORE 
820 Broadway 
Santa Monica, CA 90401 
(213)451-0713 


(415)431-0640 

COMPUTER WAY, INC. 

15525 Computer Ln. 

Huntington Beach, CA 92649 
(714) 892-8816 

COMPUTERS AND STUFF 
664 Via Alamo 
San Lorenzo, CA 94580 
(415) 278-4720 

CTI DATA SYSTEMS 
3450 East Spring St. 

Long Beach, CA 90806 
(213) 426-7375 

THE DATA CENTER 

c/o Programma Consultants 

3400 Wilshire Blvd. 

Los Angeles, CA 90010 

DIALECT 

1076 El Dorado Dr. 

Livermore, CA 94550 
(415)433-0390 

IV DIMENSION, INC. 

7060 Miramar Rd. Suite 104 
San Diego, CA 92121 
(714) 566-7610 

METATIC CORP. 

2211 Fountain Oaks Drive 
Morgan Hill, CA 95037 
(408) 779-8150 

MICRO BYTE 
c/o Guy Hall 
183 East 8th Ave. 

Chico, CA 95926 

MICROPROCESSOR MARKETING 
c/o Tom Hudson 

28120 Peacock Ridge Dr. No. 806 
Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 90274 

PETE'S ELECTRONICS 
3007 Ventura Blvd. 

Oxnard, CA 93030 
(805) 485-6467 

PROKO ELECTRONICS 
975 Foothill 

San Luis Obispo, CA 93402 
(805) 544-5441 

RAINBOW ENTERPRISE 
10723 White Oak Ave. 

Granada Hills, CA 91344 
(213) 360-2171 

SANDRLY ASSOC, 
c/o Dickinson 
7020 Balboa Blvd. 

Van Nuys, CA 91406 

THE SMALL BUSINESS COMPUTER CO. 
400 Dewey Blvd. 

San Francisco, CA 94116 
(415) 665-2575 

SUNNY SOUNDS 
927 B E. Las Tunas Dr. 

San Gabriel, CA 91776 

SUNSHINE COMPUTER CO. 

9 Palomino Lane 
Carson, CA 90745 
(213)830-8965 


COLORADO 

COMPUTER COUNTRY, INC. 
18 Alameda Square 
2200 West Alameda 
Denver, CO 80223 
(303) 935-1100 

GATEWAY ELECTRONICS 
2839 W. 44th Ave. 

Denver, CO 80211 
(303) 458-5444 

INTERMOUNTAIN DIGITAL 
c/o Douglas M. Woodard 
1027 Dellwood Ave. 
Boulder, CO 80302 

J.B. SAUNDERS CO. 

3050 Valmont Rd. 

Boulder, CO 80301 
(303)442-1212 


CONNECTICUT 

THE COMPUTER STORE 
63 So. Main St. 

Windsor Locks, CT 06096 
(203) 627-0188 

HEURISTIC SYSTEMS 
c/o Susan Gilpatrick 
244 Crystal Lake Rd. 
Ellington, CT 06029 


FLORIDA 

THE COMPUTER STORE 
c/o Comprehensive Systems 
P.O. Box 251 
Pensacola, FL 32502 
(904) 434-6754 

DOUGLAS COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
710 Oaks Plantation Drive 
Jacksonville, FL 32211 
(904) 724-8726 

ELECON CORPORATION 
4981 - 72nd Ave. North 
Pinellas Park, FL 33465 
(813) 541-3021 

MARSH DATA SYSTEMS 
5405-B Southern Comfort Blvd. 
Tampa, FL 33614 
(813) 886-9890 

MICROCOMPUTER SYSTEMS, INC. 
144 So. Dale Mabry Hwy. 

Tampa, FL 33609 
(813) 879-4301 

SUNNY COMPUTER STORES, INC. 

117 Newton Road 
West Hollywood, FL 33023 
(305) 989-1258 

GEORGIA 

ATLANTA COMPUTER MART 
5091-B Buford Highway 
Atlanta, GA 30340 
(404) 455-0647 

THE COMPUTER SYSTEM CENTER 
3330 Piedmont Rd. 

Atlanta, GA 30305 
(404) 231-1691 


36 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 








ILLINOIS 

CHICAGO COMPUTER STORE 
517 Talcott Rd. Hwy 62 
Park Ridge, IL 60068 

ITTY BITTY MACHINE CO. 

1316 Chicago Ave. 

Evanston, IL 60201 
(312) EAT-6800 


INDIANA 

DATA DOMAIN 
111 So. College Ave. 
Bloomington, IN 47401 

KENTUCKY 

CYBERTRONICS, INC. 
312 Productions Court 
Louisville, KY 40299 
(502) 459-0426 


LOUISIANA 

EXECUTONE MICROCOMPUTER 
6969 Titian Ave. 

Baton Rouge, LA 70806 
(504) 383-1371 


MARYLAND 

THE COMPUTER WORKSHOP 
5709 Frederick Ave. 

Rockville, MD 20852 
(301) 468-0455 


MASSACHUSETTS 

COMPUTER MART 
473 Winter St. 

Waltham, MA 02154 
(617) 890-0677 

THE COMPUTER STORE, INC. 
120 Cambridge Street 
Burlington, MA01803 
(617) 272-8770 

THE COMPUTER STORE, INC. 
P.O. Box 2621 

Framingham Center, MA 01701 
(617) 877-6984 


MICHIGAN 

COMPUMART, INC. 

254 South Wagner Rd. 

Ann Arbor, Ml 48103 

THE COMPUTER STORE OF ANN ARBOR 
310 E. Washington St. 

Ann Arbor, Ml 48108 


MISSOURI 

GATEWAY ELECTRONICS 
8123-25 Page Blvd. 

St. Louis, MO 63130 
(314) 427-6116 


NEBRASKA 

WELLING ELECTRONICS 
529 North 33rd St. 
Omaha, NE 68131 
(402) 342-6564 


NEW JERSEY 

COMPUTER MART OF NJ 
151 Kline Blvd. 

Colonia, NJ 07067 
(201) 574-2173 

THE COMPUTER ROOM 
451 Simons Ave. 

Hackensack, NJ 07601 
(201) 342-6667 

HOBOKEN COMPUTER WORKS 
56 Second St. 

Hoboken, NJ 07030 
(201) 949-2493/420-1 644 

TECHNICAL DESIGN LABS, INC. 
342 Columbus Ave. 

Trenton, NJ 08629 
(609) 599-1868 

WILLIAM ELECTRONIC SUPPLY 
1863 Woodbridge Ave. 

Edison, NJ 08817 


NEW MEXICO 

THE COMPUTER SHACK 
3120 San Mateo NE 
Albuquerque, NM 87110 


NEW YORK 

AUDIO DESIGN ELECTRONICS 
487 Broadway, Rm 512 
New York, NY 10013 
(212) 226-2038 

COLLEGIATE AUDIO 
2A Telfort St. 

Oneonta, NY 13820 
(607) 432-1930 

COMPUTER CORNER 
White Plains Mall 
200 Hamilton Ave. 

White Plains, NY 10601 
(914) 457-7853 

COMPUTER ENTERPRISES 
P.O. Box 71 

Fayetteville, NY 13066 
(315) 637-6208 

COMPUTER MART OF NEW YORK 
314 5th Ave. 

New York, NY 10001 
(212) 279-1048 

THE COMPUTER STORE OF NEW YORK 
55 West 39th St. 

New York, NY 10018 
(212) 221-1404 

ELECTRONIC PRODUCTS 
645 Stewart Ave. 

Garden City, NY 11530 

SYNCHRO SOUND ENTERPRISES 
193-25 Jamaica Ave. 

Hollis, NY 11423 

(212) 359-1489/468-7067 


OHIO 

ELS SMALL COMPUTER CENTER 
2209 Taylor Road 
Cleveland Heights, OH 44112 
(216) 249-7820 


RIDGWAY EAST 
Retail Computer Center 
161 Bell St. 

Chagrin Falls, OH 44022 
Cleveland - (216) 247-4845 

OREGON 

THE REAL OREGON COMPUTER CO. 
205 West 10th 
Eugene, OR 97401 


PENNSYLVANIA 

THE COMPUTER ROOM 
Juniper and Sansom Sts. 
Philadelphia, PA 

J.B INDUSTRIES 
610 West Olney Ave. 
Philadelphia, PA 19120 

LECTRO MEDIA, LTD. 

22 New Market 
2nd & Pine Sts. 

Philadelphia, PA 19147 
(215) 925-9090 

MARTIN J. O'BOYLE ASSOC. 
P.O. Box 9094 
Pittsburgh, PA 15224 
(412) 361-1602 

PERSONAL COMPUTER CORP. 
Frazer Mall 
Frazer, PA 19355 
(215) 647-8460 


RHODE ISLAND 

COMPUTER POWER, INC. 
60 Harding St. 

West Warwick, Rl 02893 
(401) 822-0204 


TENNESSEE 

BYTE'TRONICS 
5604 Kingston Pike 
Knoxville, TN 37919 
(615) 588-8971 


TEXAS 

DIGITEX 
2111 Farrington 
Dallas, TX 75207 
(214) 744-1849 

ELECTRONIC SPECIALTY CO. 
2006 San Sebastian B-232 
Houston, TX 77058 
(713)475-4402 

THE MICRO STORE 
c/o David Wilson 
2602 D. Custer Parkway 
Richardson, TX 75080 
(214) 231-4088 

POLARIS COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
3311 Richmond, Suite 200 
Houston, TX 77006 
(713) 527-0348 


UTAH 

COMPUTERS & STUFF 
1092 S. State St. 
Orem, UT 84057 
(801) 224-2066 


NOV DEC 1 976 


37 







VIRGINIA 

COMPUTER HOBBIES UNLIMITED 
9601 Kendrick Rd. 

Richmond, VA 23235 
(804) 276-5056 

MEDIA REACTIONS, INC. 

11303 South Shore Drive 
Reston, VA 22090 
(703)471-9330 

MICROSYSTEMS 
6605 A Backlick Rd. 

Springfield, VA 22150 
(703) 569-1110 


WASHINGTON 

MICROCOMPUTER APPLICATIONS 
6009-B 13th Way SE 
Lacey, WA 98503 
(206) 456-3924 


RETAIL COMPUTER STORE 
410 N.E. 72nd 
Seattle, WA 98115 
(206) 524-4101 


WISCONSIN 

LAUERMAN DEPARTMENT STORE 
Marinette, Wl 54143 
(715) 735-3311 

MILWAUKEE COMPUTER STORE 
3415 N. 49th St. 

Milwaukee, Wl 53216 
(414) 445-2403 



If you know of a computer store which is not 
listed here, or if the listing of a store is 
incorrect, please send us the correct listing. 
We will run updates every issue and the 
complete directory twice a year. 


"CofAptfruR- crittesC' 

(Be Sure, to collet* *he 
comfit *e Set ©/ iz '•!) 


DISK DESTRUCTION MADE SIMPLE 

by Bill Thorne, London, England 


The diagram below vividly illustrates the 
effects that lint, dust, finger prints, smoke 
particles, etc., can have when they are on a disk 
surface and meet flying heads of a typical cartridge 
disk drive. The results, as you might imagine, can 


be very damaging to reliable disk performance. By 
storing disk cartridges more carefully and keeping 
them in a clean environment, reliability can be 
dramatically improved. 



38 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 
































What really happens 
when a major computer 
in a modern information 
network breaks down? 


Charles Mosmann 

PULLING 

THE 

PLUG 



“All this business about computers taking over is non¬ 
sense, of course, but it’s dangerous nonsense. It’s just not 
true. Newspapers trying to scare up a headline." 

The noise level in the coffee shop had suddenly 
abated, as though everyone paused to take a breath at 
once. I couldn’t help overhearing the remarks being made 
at the table behind me. 

“Right," a second voice affirmed, “You can always pull 
the plug." 

I did not turn around to see who the two men were; they 
were undoubtedly a couple of the hundreds, perhaps even 
thousands, of engineers and programmers who seemed to 
be involved in virtually every enterprise in the large office 
building where I worked. 

When I got back to my office, I kept thinking about the 
idea of pulling the plug. Did anybody really know where 
the plug was? In fact, modern information networks are 
designed so that if one computer stops working, the work 
load is automatically shifted around to some other 
machine. The computer that accepts a user’s job is likely 
to be no more than a scheduling and switching center, 
which will locate a computer somewhere else to do the 
actual processing. 

I had a few minutes before I was going to have to leave 
for a meeting. I decided to pursue the question a little 
further to pass the time. I have a typewriter-1 ike terminal 
beside my desk which is my own personal access to the 
computer network. I turned my chair to face it and flicked 


on the switch. The computer system to which I subscribe 
announced itself and asked me for identification. I typed 
in my name, my account number, and a password known 
only to the system and me, which functions as a sort of 
combination lock so that no one else can mess with my 
files or run up my bill, pretending to be me. 

Finally, all these formalities were taken care of satis¬ 
factorily and the machine typed out, “READY." The follow¬ 
ing dialogue took place between us. 

READY 

list available socio-economic models. 

ECO-75, CAL81, USECON, ECOMETRIC, USECON2. 
MORE? 

no. call CAL81. 

(pause) 

YOU HAVE CALLED CAL81, A SIMULATION OF LOCAL 
AND NATIONAL SOCIO-ECONOMIC SYSTEMS. DO 
YOU NEED A DESCRIPTION OF CURRENT FILES AND 
CAPABILITIES? 

no. 

PLEASE STATE PRESUPPOSITIONS OF YOUR SIMULA¬ 
TION. 

time - current, status - normal except: pull the plug 

on this computer. 


NOV DEC 1 976 


39 































DEFINE “THIS COMPUTER.” DEFINE “PULL THE 
PLUG.” 

this computer - the computer on which CAL81 is 
now running and which is in communication with 
user 15a-225/85. pull the plug - this computer 
stops operating and does not restart. 

OK. PLEASE STATE OPERATION/OUTPUT REQUIRE¬ 
MENTS. 

significant changes to systems/this city/next 7 
days. 


(pause) 

DAY 1, 14:07. MASTER COMPUTER 307/21 AT 
COMPUTIL INC LOSANGELES CEASES OPERATION. 
NO REASON REPORTED. NO ESTIMATE OF DOWN¬ 
TIME AVAILABLE. ALL UNCOMPLETED JOBS ROUTED 
TO COMPUTIL SAN DIEGO UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE. 

DAY 1, 16:30. SUDDEN INCREASE IN WORKLOAD AT 
BANK CLOSING TIME OVERLOADS SANDIEGO COM¬ 
PUTER AND EXCESS ROUTED VIA LOSANGELES TO 
SANFRANCISCO. 

DAY 1, 16:37. UNANTICIPATED POWER SURGE IN 
SANFRANCISCO TEMPORARILY INCAPACITATES 
COMMUNICATIONS SATELLITE COMPUTER. WORK IS 
SENT BACK TO LOSANGELES WHICH ATTEMPTS TO 
REROUTE IT TO DENVER. 

DAY 1, 16:38. SYSTEM DEADLOCK IN DENVER COM¬ 
PUTER DUE TO SUDDEN OVERLOAD ON SCHED¬ 
ULING ROUTINE. NO OLD JOBS ARE COMPLETED. 
ALL NEW JOBS ENTERING SYSTEM ARE ROUTED TO 
LOSANGELES OR SANDIEGO. 

DAY 1, 16:39. LOSANGELES COMMUNICATIONS 
CENTER OVERLOADED AND SOME MESSAGES ARE 
LOST. 

DAY 1, 17:00. CITY BANKS CANNOT BALANCE OUT 
ACCOUNTS. AT FOUR BANKS THERE ARE NO PROVI¬ 
SIONS FOR CLOSING THE BANK UNDER THESE 
CONDITIONS. PERSONNEL STANDING BY AWAITING 
INSTRUCTIONS. 

DAY 1, 17:00. THREE LARGE MANUFACTURING 
PLANTS IN LOSANGELES AND TWO IN SANDIEGO 
USING COMPUTER-CONTROLLED TIME CLOCKS. 
THESE ARE RUNNING SLOW AND WILL NOT ALLOW 
WORKERS TO GO HOME. 

DAY 1, 21:15. MANUAL PROCEDURES FINALLY SUC¬ 
CEED IN CLOSING DOWN BANKS AND PLANTS FOR 
THE NIGHT. 

DAY 2, 09:00. 23 PAYROLLS DUE THIS MORNING ARE 
NOT AVAILABLE DUE TO CRISIS OF DAY BEFORE. 
BANKS RECEIVE NUMEROUS REQUESTS FOR SHORT¬ 
TERM CREDIT WHICH HAVE TO BE DENIED BE¬ 
CAUSE CREDIT FILE IS NOT AVAILABLE, DUE TO 
FAILURE TO CLOSE OUT BOOKS PROPERLY DURING 
CRISIS OF DAY BEFORE. 

DAY 2, 11:40. OVERLOAD ON SANDIEGO CENTER 
CAUSES DECISION BY ELECTRIC UTILITY TO SHIFT 
OPERATION OF GENERATOR SCHEDULING PRO¬ 
GRAM TO PHOENIX COMPUTER. MOMENTARY DIP IN 
POWER LEVEL DURING THIS SHIFT. 

DAY 2, 11:41. DIP IN POWER LEVEL DAMAGES DISC 
STORAGE AND DISC DRIVE OF SANDIEGO MASTER 
COMPUTER. TAPE RENDERED UNREADABLE ON 
INPUT/OUTPUT COMPUTER. 


DAY 2, 11:42. AUTOMATIC SCHEDULING PROGRAM 
AT SANDIEGO COMPUTER CENTER DECIDES TO 
LOWER WORKLOAD BY TRANSFERRING IT TO SEAT¬ 
TLE VIA TELEPHONE. DELAY IN CARRYING OUT PLAN 
DUE TO FAILURE OF LONG-DISTANCE BILLING 
SYSTEM; ALL LONG-DISTANCE CALLS MUST BE 
PLACED MANUALLY. 

DAY 2, 12:00. DAMAGED DISC IN SANDIEGO CON¬ 
TAINED UNIQUE COPY OF YESTERDAY’S POLICE 
FILES. 17 PRISONERS RELEASED BECAUSE THERE 
ARE NO RECORDS, NO GROUNDS FOR DETAINING 
THEM. 

DAY 2, 14:00. DAMAGED TAPE HAD CREDIT RECORDS 
OF UNITED TRUST AND LOAN COMPANY. ALL LOAN 
OPERATIONS TEMPORARILY SUSPENDED; ALL ES¬ 
CROW OPERATIONS DELAYED AT LEAST ONE WEEK. 

DAY 3, 09:00. 26 RETAIL STORES CLOSE TODAY FOR 
INDEFINITE PERIOD, CONSEQUENCE OF SEVERE 
CASH/CREDIT SHORTAGE. 

DAY 4, 09:00. ALL FUEL DELIVERIES BY NATIONAL 
STANDARD OIL COMPANY TO THEIR DISTRIBUTORS 
ARE HALTED. THEIR SIMULATION AND TRANS¬ 
PORTATION SCHEDULING SYSTEM WAS BUMPED 
FROM COMPUTER BY PRIORITY JOB FROM CITY 
MANAGER'S OFFICE. 

DAY 4, 15:00. EVENING EDITION OF DAILY TIMES DE¬ 
MANDS FULL INVESTIGATION OF CRISIS! TO BEGIN 
IMMEDIATELY. ALSO ANNOUNCES THAT PUBLICA¬ 
TION WILL BE HALTED IMMEDIATELY AS OF THIS 
DATE, SINCE AUTOMATIC TYPESETTING SYSTEM 
CANNOT BE RUN. BLAME PLACED ON SEVERE 
SHORTAGE OF COMPUTING CAPABILITY IN THE 
CITY. 

DAY 5, 09:10. UNITED TRUCKING, OPERATIONS 
TRANSPORTATION, AND AGRI-TRUCK INC FORCED 
TO CURTAIL OPERATIONS DUE TO FUEL SHORTAGE 
AND CASH/CREDIT CRISIS. 

DAY 5, 10:15. REPRESENTATIVES OF LOCAL MARKET 
CHAINS HOLD PRESS CONFERENCE, INDICATING 
MAJOR FOOD SHORTAGES. SOME EVIDENCE OF 
HOARDING ALSO REPORTED. 

DAY 5, 12:10. CITIZENS MASS AT CITY HALL, 
DEMANDING ACTION. COMPLAINTS INCLUDE: LOSS 
OF JOBS, SCARCITY OF FOOD, ALARMING DIP IN 
QUALITY OF TV PROGRAMMING DUE TO COMPUTER 
SHORTAGE. 

DAY 5, 16:00. UNDERGROUND NEWSPAPER NOW 
ONLY PAPER IN CITY STILL IN PUBLICATION, DUE TO 
PRIMITIVE MANUAL NATURE OF ITS OPERATION. 
THIS WEEK’S EDITION PLACES TOTAL BLAME FOR 
CRISIS ON “GIANT BRAINS" AND CALLS FOR 
DESTRUCTION OF COMPUTERS. 

DAY 6, 07:00. POLICE REPORT THAT NUMEROUS 
COMPUTERS AND OTHER AUTOMATIC MACHINES 
HAVE BEEN DAMAGED DURING THE NIGHT. PUBLIC 
ELECTRIC COMPANY HAS TO SHUT DOWN THREE 
GENERATORS; CALLS ON NEIGHBORING DISTRICTS 
TO HELP OVERCOME EMERGENCY. 

DAY 6, 07:30. DRAIN ON NEIGHBORING DISTRICTS 
CAUSES INTERMITTENT POWER FAILURES 
THROUGHOUT THE STATE. 

DAY 6, 09:00. POWER FAILURE CAUSES ALL COM¬ 
PUTERS IN STATE CAPITOL TO STOP OPERATING, 
EXCEPT FOR MILITARY COMPUTERS WHICH RUN ON 
EMERGENCY GENERATORS. 


40 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 




DAY 7, 09:30. GOVERNOR REPORTS ALL SYSTEMS IN 
STATE ARE NOW INOPERATIVE EXCEPT FOR 
NATIONAL DEFENSE. 

END OF 7-DAY REPORT. CONTINUE? 

no. status report, national level, as of day 10. 

PRESIDENT DEMANDS TOTAL ISOLATION OF STATE 
TO AVOID DOMINO EFFECT AND SYSTEMATIC 
DESTRUCTION OF NATIONAL LIFE-STYLE. 

successful? 

NO. TELEPHONE, TELEGRAPH, RAIL, COMMERCIAL 
TRUCK, AIR TRANSPORTATION ARE CLOSED DOWN. 
MICRO-WAVE INTER COMPUTER NET HAS FAILSAFE 
PROVISION WHICH CAUSES IT TO REFUSE TO AC¬ 
CEPT TRAFFIC BECAUSE OF DANGER OF OVERLOAD. 
COMPUTERS IN NEIGHBORING STATES BEGIN TO 
SHUNT POWER/INFORMATION SERVICES TO 
DAMAGED AREAS. 

effect? 

NEIGHBORING STATES EXPERIENCE SIMILAR 
BREAKDOWNS. PRESIDENT DECLARES NATIONAL 
EMERGENCY AFTER BRIEF CABINET MEETING. 

effect of this declaration? 

MINIMAL. NO MEANS TO PROMULGATE MESSAGE, 
status of population? 

DEATHS FROM STARVATION AND CIVIL INSURREC¬ 
TION. DETAILED STATISTICS? 

no. 


CONTINUE SIMULATION OR TERMINATE? 
terminate. 

SIMULATION TERMINATED. SAVE FILE OR SCRAP 
FILE? 

scrap. 

FILE SAVED. SIGN OFF. 

My curiosity had been satisfied by this brief game. I 
checked my watch, saw that it was time to leave for my 
meeting, and turned away from my terminal. As I was put¬ 
ting papers in my briefcase, I heard the rapid clicking 
noise of a further message being typed. I did not bother to 
check what it was; not infrequently, systems information 
of only marginal importance is printed out for users who 
may be interested. 

As I was putting on my coat and turning to the door, a 
funny thing happened. The ceiling lights in the room were 
beginning to flicker. I instinctively turned my head up to 
look at them. A few of the flourescent panels were already 
dark. I don’t know what made me look down at the 
terminal just then, but I did. And in the fading light I saw 
the message that had been printed a few minutes before: 

MASTER COMPUTER 307/21 AT COMPUTIL INC LOS- 
ANGELES CEASES OPERATION. NO REASON 
REPORTED. NO ESTIMATE OF DOWNTIME AVAIL¬ 
ABLE. ALL UNCOMPLETED JOBS ROUTED TO COM¬ 
PUTIL SAN DIEGO UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE. END OF 
MESSAGE. 

Before I took my eyes from the page, my office was 
totally dark. 


THE COSMIC CLOCK 

Life crawled 
out of the sea, 
three hundred million 
years ago. 

On the cosmic clock 
that’s only a few 
hours. 

The cosmic clock 
runs on pure energy, 
with stars for 
jewels. 

It's a one hundred 
thousand million 
billion jewel clock, 
which hasn't been 
rewound since 
the big bang, 

15 billion years ago. 

It wasn’t 

made in Switzerland, 
either. 

The old man 
down the street 
wears it on 
a gold chain. 

It shines 
in the dark 
like cat's 
eyes. 


POEMS 

by Peter Payack 


INTUITION 

A flip-flop is female, 

Built of two NAND gates 
Whose output is fed back 
To each other as input. 

When the input to both 
NAND gates is positive, 

The flip-flop is in 
The indeterminate state. 

This does not mean 
It cannot decide whether 
To go the one way or the other, 
But only that you 
Cannot predict ahead of time 
Which way it will go. 

Electrons are tricky 
In flip-flops. 

Like they were in the lead 
Which kept the Alchemists 
Guessing. 

Flip-flops are built of 
NAND gates, and NAND gates 
Are powered by electrons, 
Which can fool you, just like 
They fooled Paracelsus. 


PERIOD 

According 
to Einstein's 
theory 
of relativity, 
any given 
point 
in space 
and time 
can be declared 
the center 
of things. 

The period 
at the end 
of this poem 
is the center 
of the universe, 
now. 


THE WHITE LINE 

A white line 
divides the road 
like the border 

between sanity and madness. 

I drive on the right side 
and chuckle at those who come 
in the opposite direction: 
“Insane bastards!” 


NOV DEC 1 976 


41 











How much longer will a computer illiterate be considered 
educated? How long will he be employable and for what jobs? 
Is it enough to be merely a subject of computer administered 
instruction? 

Should the computer teach 
the student, or vice-versa? 


by ARTHUR W. LUEHRMANN 

Dartmouth College 
Hanover, New Hampshire 


This sermon begins with a parable. 

Once upon a time in the ancient past there was a 
nation in which writing and reading had not yet been 
invented. Society was as advanced as possible, con¬ 
sidering that it had no mechanism for recording the 
letter of the law or of writing agreements, contracts, 
or debts. Nor was there a way of recording the heritage 
of information and knowledge that had to be passed 
on from generation to generation. 

As a result, a great fraction of the total effort of the 
society was spent in oral transmission of information. 
Master teachers, who themselves had been taught by 
older master teachers, lectured before children and 
young people of the society. Training a master teacher 
was a long and expensive process, and so the society 
could not afford many. For reasons of economy the 
curriculum was quite rigid and lectures were on a fixed 
schedule. Teaching, obviously, was a labor-intensive 
industry based on skilled, expensive talent. Education, 
per force, was a luxury that could be afforded by the 
elite classes only. 

Then, one day, writing and reading were invented. 
Not surprisingly, the first application of this new 
technology was to business and government. Money 
was printed; laws were encoded; treaties were signed. 
In response to these needs, a reading and writing in¬ 
dustry grew up. Within a few years it was able to offer 
a broad range of reading and writing services to its 
customers. The customers found this to be a con¬ 
venient arrangement, since hiring readers and writers 
from service vendors eliminated the need for each 
customer to invest in an expensive R&D effort of 
its own. The customers remained illiterate. 

At first the situation was somewhat chaotic. Each 
vendor of reading and writing service tended to de¬ 
velop its own favorite language and its own technique 
for encoding information, leading to incompatibilities 
that impeded the spread of the new technology. After 
a winnowing-out period, however, the number of 
competing systems settled down to a few and major 


difficulties were handled by translators—though in¬ 
evitably something seemed to be lost in the process. 

Always looking for new markets, the vendors of 
reading and writing service began to examine the area 
of education. In view of its elitist role in the society it 
had been dismissed at first as too limited a market. A 
few, more imaginative people, however, argued that 
the application of reading and writing technology 
could turn education into a mass market. They pro¬ 
posed the following plan of attack. Reading and 
writing specialists and master teachers would work as 
a team. The master teachers would deliver their best, 
most carefully prepared lectures to the reading and 
writing experts, who would write them carefully 
verbatim into books. The books would then be copied 
many times, and each copy would be made available to 
a new type of educational functionary—the reader. 
His only job would be to assemble groups of students 
and to read aloud to them the recorded lectures of the 
master teachers. In view of the fact that training such 
a reader would be far less expensive than the educa¬ 
tion of a master teacher, the on-going cost of such a 
program would be far less than that of the conven¬ 
tional lecture method. The new method came to be 
called Writing Assisted Instruction, frequently ab¬ 
breviated to WAI. 

Needless to say, WAI had its opponents. Established 
master teachers expressed doubt whether a less skilled 
reader would be able to communicate subtleties of 
inflection, and they were certain that a mere reader 
could not process student responses with skill or intel¬ 
ligence. WAI proponents counter-charged that the 
master teachers were merely expressing their vested 
interest in the present educational establishment, and, 
indeed, that they ought to be fearful because the 
superiority of WAI would ultimately drive out the 
conventional practitioners. Even within the education 
establishment some younger members became WAI 
supporters on the grounds that the new method was 
a boon to education research. Until then, teaching had 


Reprinted from Proceedings of Spring Joint Computer Conference, 1972. Copyright 1972 by AFIPS. 


42 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 









been something of a black art, shrouded in the privacy 
of the classroom. To compare one teacher with another 
was impossible. But in the future, they said, the 
written record of the lectures of master teachers would 
make the teaching experience explicit and subject to 
analysis, comparison and improvement. It was high 
time, the young Turks exclaimed, that the teaching 
profession act with accountability to the public it 
served. 

Unfortunately, such controversy remained for many 
years on a hypothetical plane. The number of actual 
WAI efforts was very small and their results were not 
striking. There was also a credibility problem. Many 
of the most outspoken advocates of WAI, especially 
in the legislature and in business and on local school 
boards, were themselves almost totally illiterate in the 
new reading and writing skills. How could they evaluate 
a new technology if they had not mastered it them¬ 
selves? 

Finally, government, business and some members 
of the education establishment decided to mount two 
or three large-scale demonstrations of WAI in order 
to show publicly the advantages of the new educational 
technology. For a period of several years curriculum 
experts collected information on a few key courses of 
lectures by assorted master teachers. The reading and 
writing experts wrote down the best series and read 
them aloud to the curriculum experts, who would 
criticize them and make improvements. The reading 
and writing experts would then incorporate the im¬ 
provements in the next draft. Then came the field 
test. Readers began to read the drafts aloud to actual 
classes of students, and this led to further revision 
by the curriculum experts and rewriting by the reading 
and writing experts. At the end of a few more years a 
summative evaluation of the projects was undertaken 
by an independent, reputable educational testing or¬ 
ganization, whose mission was to compare the cost and 
effectiveness of WAI with conventional education. 

The parable is nearing its conclusion now. Actually 
it has two alternate endings, one happy and one sad. 
The sad ending, which follows now, is brief. 

The educational testing organization reported that 
the projects were a complete vindication of Writing 
Assisted Instruction. It found that students taught 
by WAI performed even better on standardized tests 
than students taught by the average master teacher, 
that the students liked WAI better, and that the total 
cost of WAI was about a fourth that of conventional 
instruction. These pilot projects were imitated on a 
grand scale and education was revolutionized. Special 
institutes turned out vast numbers of readers and 
within ten years they were reading courses of lectures 
aloud to masses of people who could never have been 


educated before the new instructional technology 
arrived. The nation grew and prospered and thanked 
the day that the reading and writing industry was 
founded. 

That is the sad ending. The happy ending is some¬ 
what longer and more complicated. Here it is: 

The educational testing organization found that 
WAI was neither measurably worse than conventional 
instruction, nor better. It found that costs were some¬ 
what higher than anticipated, mainly because the 
market demand for people with reading and writing 
skills had driven their wages up near those of master 
teachers. 

But this lukewarm finding was anticlimactic when it 
came, for the impact of reading and writing on educa¬ 
tion had taken a new turn during the intervening years. 
Here is how it happened. 

At first a few master teachers had themselves found 
it necessary in pursuing their own research to spend the 
enormous effort required to master the skills of reading 
and writing. As they became more and more competent 
readers and writers, they began to see clearly the power 
of the written word within their own disciplines. 
Naturally enough the humanists were the first to apply 
this new intellectual tool to their fields of interest. 
Literature specialists collected stories, wrote them 
down, exchanged them with each other and began to 
develop literary criticism to a new height. Language 
specialists compiled lists of grammatical rules, which 
became writing manuals. Scientists were slower in 
becoming literate, with mathematicians leading the 
way, since they grasped the possibility of writing mathe¬ 
matical concepts in abstract notation. Nevertheless, 
for many years scientists continued to remain in verbal 
darkness. 

While reading and writing had its primary impact 
on scholarly research, at the same time many master 
teachers across the land began to wonder whether it 
might not be beneficial to introduce elementary uses 
of reading and writing to students in their courses. A 
few language teachers began to show students how to 
write phrases and sentences, and the more venture¬ 
some teachers even asked students to write sentences 
of their own. Such experience, they claimed, greatly 
enhanced a student’s understanding of syntax and 
rules of grammar. Even in subject areas far removed 
from language, to which reading and writing have a 
natural affinity, teachers began to report pedagogical 
gains due to having students carry out elementary 
reading and writing tasks as an adjunct to conventional 
instruction. 

One obstacle to student use of reading and writing 
was the awkwardness of the main systems of notation, 
which had been developed mainly for research and 


NOV DEC 1 976 


43 






business applications. The most popular such system 
was particularly difficult to format, since its characters 
all had to be positioned accurately in a fixed number of 
columns. Occasionally there were rumors that a group 
of teachers in a remote province near the northern 
frontier had developed a simpler writing system and 
all their students were using it daily. Such rumors were 
hard to verify; only a few people ever voyaged that 
far north, and, in any case, experts in the reading and 
writing industry seemed confident that anything that 
made the current system simpler would also take away 
its power and elegance. So most teachers adhered to it. 

Within a few years teachers began to hold national 
meetings to tell one another how their students used 
reading and writing within their courses. Advocates 
of this type of use, which came to be called adjunctive , 
insisted that it be distinguished clearly from WAI. 
Writing Assisted Instruction, they charged, was nothing 
more than an improvement in the technology of de¬ 
livering instruction. Adjunctive use of reading and 
writing by the student, on the other hand, represented 
a change in the intellectual content of instruction. They 
argued from the following philosophical premise: 

Reading and writing constitute a new and 
fundamental intellectual resource. To use that 
resource as a mere delivery system for instruction, 
but not to give a student instruction in how he 
might use the resource himself, was the chief 
failure of the WAI effort, they said. What a loss 
of opportunity, they exclaimed, if the skill of 
reading and writing were to be harnessed for the 
purpose of turning out masses of students who 
were unable to read and write! 

WAI advocates responded that it was well and good 
that a few elitist schools teach their students the dif¬ 
ficult skill of reading and writing; it was enough that 
WAI teach lesser skills to masses that might otherwise 
remain uneducated and unemployable. 

How much longer, asked the WAI opponents in 
rebuttal, will an illiterate person be considered edu¬ 
cated? How long will he be employable and for what 
jobs if elitist schools are turning out competent readers 
and writers by the hundreds? 

The more visionary advocates of mass literacy told 
of foreseeing the day when students would spend more 
hours of the day reading and writing than listening to 
lectures. Small research libraries had indeed sprung up 
at some schools, but they were expensive operations 
limited to a few specialists who had to raise funds to 
pay for their use. Such people were particularly in¬ 
credulous at the suggestion that every school ought to 
adopt as an educational goal the establishment of a 


significant library open freely to all students. School 
administrators were at first appalled at the idea that 
the library should not be on a pay-as-you-go basis but 
should be budgeted as part of the general institutional 
overhead costs. 

But as time went on and even school administrators 
became competent and imaginative users of the skill 
of reading and writing, all schools gradually accepted 
as a mission the bringing of literacy to all students. 
Accreditation agencies examined the quality of libraries 
before approving schools. Books began to appear all 
over and finally even in peopled homes. WAI did not 
die out altogether, but continued as a cost-effective 
alternative to the lecture. But as books reduced de¬ 
pendence on lectures, students made less use of both 
WAI and lectures and spent more time on their own 
reading and writing projects. The nation grew and 
prospered and wrote poems in praise of the day that 
reading and writing were discovered and made available 
to all people. 

End of parable. 

It is a perilous strategy, bordering on bad taste, to 
tell a joke and then for several pages explain why it 
was supposed to be funny. However, this allegorical 
tale has been told here not merely for entertainment 
but mainly for the moral lesson it carries. To compare 
reading and writing with computing might be dis¬ 
missed as an amusing frivolity; but that would be 
wrong. Our fundamental philosophical premise here is 
that, like reading and writing, 

“[computing] constitutes a new and funda¬ 
mental intellectual resource. To use that resource 
as a mere delivery system for instruction, but not 
to give a student instruction in how he might use 
the resource himself, has been the chief failure of 
the [C]AI effort. What a loss of opportunity if 
the skill of [computing] were to be harnessed for 
the purpose of turning out masses of students who 
were unable to [use computing]!” 

As this example shows, it is a trivial editing task 
to go through the entire reading and writing fable and 
turn it into a story about computing and its uses in 
education. In fairness, the author admits that the 
story really is about computing and that reverse editing 
was done in the original telling so that it would seem 
to be about reading and writing. Yet, as a story about 
reading and writing it has considerable plausibility, 
doesn’t it? The Writing Assisted Instruction program 
outlined in the story is not a totally absurd idea for 
putting reading and writing to use in education. One 
cannot argue against claims that committing lectures 


44 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 








to writing would make education available to more 
people, would invite critical comparisons and a con¬ 
sequent improvement in subsequent revisions of 
written materials, and would be an asset to the study 
of the learning process itself. What does appear absurd, 
however, is the failure of these mythical WAI propo¬ 
nents to recognize that the best educational use of 
reading and writing is the teaching of reading and 
writing itself to everyone. Mass literacy is an educa¬ 
tional mission about which few of us have doubts today. 

Yet that consensus among us seems to vanish when 
one substitutes “computing” for “reading and writing” 
and “CAI” for “WAI”. Mass computing literacy is 
not an agreed-upon educational goal. Today very few 
courses at any educational level show students how to 
use computing as an intellectual tool with applications 
to the subject matter being taught. Oh, there are a few 
isolated, subject-matter-free courses in computer pro¬ 
gramming; but their market is largely restricted to 
vocational-education students, at one end of the 
spectrum, and future computer professionals at the 
other. It is true that most schools consider it prestigious 
to have a large and powerful computer facility; but 
the fact of the matter is that such computers are 
usually the captives of research and administrative 
interests and operate on a pay-as-you-go basis. Iron¬ 
ically, it is in the most prestigious universities that 
students are least likely to be permitted to use those 
prestigious computers. It is a rare secondary school, 
college, or university that budgets and operates its 
computer facility in the same way that it budgets and 
operates its library. (There is a persistent rumor of an 
exceptional example in some remote province near the 
northern frontier, but so few people ever travel that 
way that the report is hard to verify.) Jn the main, 
literacy in computing simply is not an educational 

goal at many schools. Most educators seem to find 

bizarre the suggestion that accreditation agencies 

examine schools for the quality of their educational 

computing facilitie s, ju st as they now do with librarie s. 

The distressing truth today is that educators, local 
school boards and federal policy-makers are far more 
receptive to the plans of CAI proponents for using the 
technology of computing as a cost-effective delivery 
system for instruction in math or remedial English 
than they are to making computing itself a part of 
education. This statement should not be taken as a 
blast against CAI. On the contrary, CAI advocates 
are to be commended for their desire to reduce the 
cost of instruction, to tailor it to the different learning 
styles of students, to develop systems that encourage 
closer examination of what is being taught and systems 
for improving instruction, and to hold teachers and 
schools accountable to their clientele. With enough 
developmental work on CAI, it is likely that students 
will perceive the computer as a very superior teacher. 
Above all, CAI promises to make education a less 


labor-intensive industry and so to enable masses of 
people to become better educated. This is certainly a 
goal worth working for. 

But there is a higher goal. If the computer is so 
powerful a resource that it can be programmed to 
simulate the instructional process, shouldn’t we be 
teaching our students mastery of this powerful intel¬ 
lectual tool? Is it enough that a student be the subject 
of computer administered instruction—the end-user 
of a new technology? Or should his education also 
include learning to use the computer (1) to get infor¬ 

mation in the social sciences from a large data-base 
inquiry system, or (2) to simulate an ecological system, 

or (3) to solve problems by using algorithms, or (4) to 

acquire laboratory data and analyze it, or (5) to 

represent textual information for editing and analysis, 

or (6) to represent musical information for analysis, or 

(7) to create and process graphical information? These 
uses of computers in education cause students to be¬ 
come masters of computing, not merely its subjects. 

It will be countered that such an educational mission 
is well and good for a few elitist schools, where students 
are willing to learn the difficult skill of computing; but 
it is enough that CAI teach lesser skills to masses of 
students that might otherwise remain uneducated and 
unemployable. 

In response we ask, how much longer will a computer 

illiterate be considered educated? How long will he be 

employable and for what jobs if elitist schools are 

turning out competent computer users by the thou¬ 

sands? 

“"TKe true story about computing and education is 
at its midpoint. Like the reading and writing parable, 
it has a sad ending and a happy ending. Which one 
actually occurs will be determined by you—teachers, 
school administrators, computer professionals, and 
government policy-makers. 



"Now hear this! / am the programmer. You are the programee\ 


NOV DEC 1 976 


45 







































Opinion 

THE 

GOVERNMENT 
DINOSA UR 

Charles Winn 
530 McAlway Road 
Charlotte , N. C. 28211 



Over the years we have witnessed the growth and 
development of what could best be described as the gov¬ 
ernmental dinosaur — a large unwieldy critter, whothough 
well-meaning, thinks slowly, moves awkwardly, reacts 
tardily, and is beset with many ailments and infirmities. Like 
its animal form it may well ultimately become so ineffec¬ 
tive and weighed down as to collapse into death and ex¬ 
tinction. This governmental monstrosity has assumed 
duties and responsibilities out of all proportion to its 
intrinsic talents and abilities. It was designed or put 
together piecemeal to serve in slower less demanding times 
and has had newand challenging obligations thrust upon it. 

Human comprehension and reaction at the govern¬ 
mental and legislative levels is incapable of coping with the 
multitude or complexity of rapidly changing facts, figures, 
and demands. New discoveries, advanced technologies, 
and other newly revealed knowledge moves at such a rapid 
pace that it defies human assimilation and coordination by 
those who require these benefits and insights most. Gov¬ 
ernment, like the great retarded beast, stumbles and 
staggers its way along — trampling many underfoot, 
wavering from a proper course, over or under compen¬ 
sating, and becoming more lost and confused. The mere 
size of the organism renders it ineffectual. The mul¬ 
titudinous bureaus, departments, offices, agencies, and 
divisions grow like cancerous cells in wild profusion. When 
they do function or respond it is not always in conjunction 
with other parts or in their best interests. Communication 
and cooperation between these segments is a nightmare 
activity. 

Other investigators and writers have examined and ably 
described the wild inconsistencies and glaring deficiencies 
of this tremendous organization. We are all familiar with 
some of the errors, shortcomings, and the ineffectiveness 
of the government as it exists today. It is no one individual's 
fault that these conditions prevail, but does this ignorant 
beast in its present form warrant our trust and confidence? 
Does it even begin to efficiently serve the potential and 
actual needs of the American populace? 

This beast is not peculiar to only the United States, but 
has its counterparts in other countries. In fact, there the 
colossus may be even more ponderous, awkward, and 
intractable. Our chief concern however, is with remedies, 
improvements, and innovations. This process shouldn't 
require revolution in anything but our thinking and our solu¬ 
tions. 


Initially, we might try a massive undertaking — the 
creation of the largest, most efficient computer yet con¬ 
ceived or assembled — a computer capable of retaining, 
assimilating, and processing information relating to all 
phases of governmental concern or interest. The machine 
would require a sizeable complex of experts to insure its 
proper function. Initially, to insure the accuracy of data, 
statistics, and information gathered, there would have to be 
a virtually fool-proof systems organization to gather such 
data and a board of experts from various fields and 
disciplines, men above suspicion or reproach and of sterling 
character, to make final judgments on what material wasto 
be programmed and to oversee those that physically 
entered information into the machine. The margin for error 
would most certainly be less than it is under present 
random circumstances. 

The machine could be programmed to temporarily reject 
material that was inconsistent with or deviant from 
information already retained. This material, in turn, could 
be reviewed by the board to ascertain its accuracy before re¬ 
submission. Computer experts and designers could build 
the necessary safety procedures and safeguards into the 
machine at its inception to prevent tampering and misuse. 

This computer might well be dubbed Uncle Sam and 
could be relied on for accuracy, rationale, and impartiality. 
The machine may not be infallible, but would be infinitely 
superior to the mass confusion and human error that exist 
today. It could provide the president and his cabinet, the 
Congress, and other essential government figures with up- 
to-date and comprehensive information on which deci¬ 
sions could be partially based. The extent to which this 
information would be acted upon could be determined by 
experience and performance. Uncle Sam would obviate 
much of the reliance placed upon outside lobbyists, who are 
almost always selfishly motivated, and self-appointed 
experts whose information is often, at best, questionable. 
Uncle Sam could offset and reduce much of the mediocrity, 
partiality, and outright chicanery that now exists in the gov¬ 
ernment area. 

If these machines can be relied upon to deliver expensive 
and complicated space vehicles to obscure destinations 
with unerring accuracy and exactitude, they could certainly 
be channeled to the task of eliminating much of the human 
weakness and shortcomings, the boondoggery, and all of 
the prolonged hassling that they generate in government 
affairs. The legislative and administrative systems have 


46 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 























become a snarl of ineptitude. The idea of Uncle Sam is not 
inconsistent with the human element for humans are, in 
fact, computers of a sort that lack the total recall, 
instantaneous operation, tirelessness, and the uncanny 
accuracy of their machine counterparts. They work very 
well in harmony and in conjunction with each other — the 
one providing what the other lacks. 

The slowness and frequently the absence of reaction of 
the government to social needs results in the creation of a 
sense of alienation and helplessness in the general 
populace. Many experts and observers feel that the citizen's 
inability to express himself and make himself heard is the 
greatest weakness and ill in our society. Millions regard 
themselves as ineffectual pawns incapable of bringing 
about change or improvement even at the lowest levels of 
government and administration — they crave recognition 
and a sense of participation. 

This pressing need might well be also answered by 
computer technology and provide a step toward truly 
democratic procedures. Present knowledge is sufficient to 
devise an electronic voting system whereby the average 
voter could be consulted and heard on basic issues. A coded 
card, similar to a credit card, might be issued to a qualified 
voter. This, in turn, could identify the voter upon insertion 
into an apparatus incorporated into the telephone system, 
thereby permitting the voter to dial his vote by following 
designated procedures. This type of equipment could be in 
every home possessing telephone service and con¬ 
veniently located booths could serve others who lack 
individual telephone service or who may be away from their 
homes. 

Radio and television could be more fully employed to keep 
the public abreast of current issues and prepared to make 
intelligent decisions on matters relating to the public 
welfare. Computers could tally these votes and furnish 
them directly to legislative government thus bringing about 
a return to democratic procedures unknown since the days 
of the great Grecian cities. If anything this would be im¬ 
provement upon any democratic procedure ever employed 
on a large scale basis. For the first time the public could 
express itself directly without all of the representative in¬ 
consistencies and blindness that we now experience. 

Another improvement would be to gradually transfer 
much of the governmental function to segments of private 
industry. This would be in keeping with our professed faith 
in free enterprise and consistent with the fact that business 
is much more efficient and goal oriented than the present 
framework of governmental administration. 

These duties and responsibilitiescould still be originated, 
supervised, advised, and checked upon by government per¬ 
sonnel at the upper levels. The functions and activities 
themselves would be the assignment of private companies 
or independent agencies that are geared for efficiency and 
results. This arrangement would produce greater accom¬ 
plishment of goals and at great savings to the taxpayer. 
There would be benefits to be reaped all the way around. 
One such benefit would be the elimination of duplication 
and the removal of personnel who are often incapable, 
indifferent, or lacking in motivation or dedication. The 
present efficient government employee would have nothing 
to fear for he would readily be absorbed into the new system 
with extended responsibilities and a much greater oppor¬ 
tunity to prove himself. 

There is nothing sanctified or holy about governmental 
form that precludes its being changed or altered to conform 
to new demands and needs, to make better responses. 
Many of the founders of our country expressed this attitude 
freely and made allowances for it in the Constitution. If 
we're going to retain the old dinosaur, let's at least give it 
some assistance and provide it with modern aids. It 
deserves our wholehearted support and is most certainly in 
our best interests. 


Juvenile Information 
System Killed 

Last April, an unusual alliance of computer professionals 
and civil liberties advocates managed to halt the 
implementation of a Juvenile Information System in the 
Santa Clara, California Probation Department. The victory 
was the result of a lot of people learning about other 
people's problems and beginning to care about them. 

Dorothy Ellenburg, director of the Council for 
Community Action Planning, Inc. in San Jose brought to 
light the problem with JIS. The system, which was to 
centralize the files of juveniles in order to enable agencies 
all over the county to have access to them, raised questions 
among her group because it called for the inclusion of the 
names of juveniles who weren't officially "delinquent". 
With the help of Carol Guddal, a technical writer for 
Hewlett-Packard and more than 30 other volunteer 
computer professionals, the CCAP studied the abuses to 
which the JIS might be subject, and were able to convince 
the county board of supervisors to defeat its implementa¬ 
tion. A central objection to JIS that the computer 
professionals brought to light was its lack of security. With 
terminals all over the county that would produce not just 
displays of data, but printouts too, there was little that 
could be done to control the confidentiality of 
information. CCAP argued that such easy access to 
information about children who weren't even criminals 
would be tantamount to labelling them as "asocial kids". 
The computer experts who studied the implications of the 
system agreed. 

A byproduct of the joint effort was the establishment of 
a data confidentiality commission in the county. The group 
is studying the implications of computerization and 
information sharing of the more than three million 
individual records compiled by county government on its 
citizens. Carol Guddal stated very clearly what she and the 
other computer experts learned and intend to remember as 
a result of their involvement: "It's easy to become isolated 
from the use of these systems after they've been shipped 
out the door. . . . I'm not so sure that I'll be guilty of it 
anymore. I never realized how profoundly a computer 
system can influence a community. They are not toys." 


SYSTEMATIC 
TRI-PHASE PROJECTION 

(Prophetic Rhetoric) 
by Linda $. Labelson 

Our company has integrated a transitional logistical 
concept. The total policy options consist of flexibility and 
capability with a functional parallelled time-phase projec¬ 
tion. 

Total hardware mobility is to be monitored with pro¬ 
grammed digital synchronized contingency. 

Our objective is third-generation programming; respon¬ 
sive, balanced management, with a totalitarian compatibili¬ 
ty* 

Circumspectly, we purport an accelerated expediting of 
this highly technical innovation. 


NOV DEC 1 976 


47 










“Computers and Beauty” 


by Mutsuko SASAKI and Tateaki SASAKI* 
1-18-17, Syoan Suginami-ku, Tokyo 167, JAPAN 


In this article we consider beauty and simple methods of its 
realization by a computer. Here, by the beauty we do not mean 
such beauty as of logic or of love but mean artistic beauty 
appealing to the human’s aesthetic sense. 

In order to realize the beauty systematically by a computer, 
we need the concept of beauty to be defined suitably for pro¬ 
gramming. In searching for such a definition, we first note a very 
simple and very typical example: the “golden section,” i.e., the 
most beautiful sectioning of a finite line into two parts. It is 
impressive that the ratio giving the golden section is not far from 
1:1. If the ratio was 1:10, say, then the corresponding section 
would not appeal to our aesthetic sense. One of other typical 
examples is music; a beautiful melody would be an ugly one if 
the arrangement of notes in the music were bad. We can 
suppose from these examples an essential element of beauty; 
we may call it harmony. A thing being lacking in harmony will 
make the human’s feeling unstable and cause an antipathy in his 
mind. Saying this from the viewpoint of beauty, we can say that 
it is not beautiful. On the other hand, we also note that the ratio 
giving the golden section is not exactly 1:1. We may describe 
this as that variety is necessary for the object being more 
beautiful. Let us illustrate this by cooking: cooking must contain 
the nutriment, but even the nutrimental cooking is not a better 
one if it tastes bad! Thus variety is an additional element of 
beauty. In this sense, an object which is full of variety but lacking 
in harmony, say a picture drawn by utilizing only random 
numbers, will not be beautiful. Therefore, one can adopt the 
representation of harmony and variety as a simple definition of 
beauty. It should be noted that both harmony and variety are 
conceptually much less abstract than beauty itself and suitable 
for computer programming because they can be converted into 
numerical relations rather easily. In the following we shall 
consider actual methods of realization of beauty through a 
computer by taking up the drawing as a concrete example. 

For the sake of explanatory convenience, we classify the 
pictorial beauty into i) mathematical beauty, ii) natural beauty, 
and iii) creative beauty. By these terms we mean, respectively, 
that i) beauty found in figures easily expressible in terms of 
mathematical functions, ii) beauty found in nature, and iii) 
beauty being dependent mainly on the human’s creative 
powers. Many of the actual drawings may, of course, contain 
two or all of these types of beauty. We are not sure that above 
classification covers all types of the pictorial beauty, but the 
reader will see that it is very adequate for the computer drawing. 

i) We often experience that simple mathematical functions 
enable us to make excellently beautiful drawings. Most func¬ 
tions commonly used in applied mathematics represent 
continuous changes of one dependent variable with respect to 
changes of other independent variables under some definite 
rules. These rules maintain the balance of the resulting drawing 
as a whole, and continuity of the functions prevents the local 
configurations of the drawing from becoming too various. Thus 
we may say that most mathematical functions are harmonic. 
(The functions called harmonic in mathematics are solutions of 


* Present affiliation: The Institute of Physical and Chemical Research, Wako-shi, 
Saitama 351, JAPAN. 


the Laplace’s differential equation. We are using the term 
“harmonic” in wider meaning here.) Perhaps the mathematical 
functions are best suited for expressing harmony simply. What 
we should care for in this case is how to represent variety. 
Fortunately, variety is also contained in the functions to some 
extent, and mathematics provides us with random numbers. 
Hence, we may be able to represent variety sufficiently in terms 
of mathematics. Many works of the computer art up to the 
present are based on the mathematical beauty. This beauty is 
so popular to computer artists and so easy to realize by a 
computer that we do not discuss it anymore. 

ii) Most people will agree with an opinion that nature is full of 
variety. But we can also find a great many kinds of harmony in 
nature; e.g., figures of flowers, butterflies, fishes, mountains, 
etc., etc. We think this is because that laws in physics, biology, 
etc. govern the nature and make it be harmonic: matters are 
built from atoms systematically, only evolved and selected 
beings are surviving and they are balanced as a whole due to the 
struggle for existence, and even the nonliving things are 
balanced. We can hence represent harmony as well as variety 
by imitating the natural objects. Further the natural objects can 
also cause through our memory many psychological effects 
which are no more contained in the category of beauty. The 
important points in representing beauty by natural objects are 
that the resulting drawing should not become too complicated 
and that each object drawn in the drawing should be easily 
identified. The reason is that natural objects themselves are 
sufficiently various. For example, suppose we are drawing 
many flowers on a paper. If we only outline the flowers the draw¬ 
ing would not be so beautiful. If the overlapped and invisible 
parts are also drawn, the resulting drawing will be too compli¬ 
cated and may even be ugly. In this case, therefore, more 
complicated programs or peripheral systems are necessary 
than in the previous case. Some examples are an image reader 
and a picture recording system, but here we explain our simple 
program by showing illustrations. Figure 1 shows an input 
drawing for our system. The drawing showing three flowers 

in Fig. 2 is rather ugly because it is too complicated; even to 
identify it as representing three flowers is not so easy. Invisible 
parts are eliminated in Fig. 3. In Fig. 4 insides of the flowers are 
“painted” with assigned patterns. The resulting drawing is much 
more beautiful than that shown in Fig. 2. In this way, we can see 
that we can well represent beauty by imitating natural objects 
and processing them through even a simple system. We should 
of course design many systems in order to raise the computer 
art to higher positions. But, since nature is full of variety, we can 
conceive many possibilities. In particular, since we know beauti¬ 
fulness of the mathematical beauty and easiness of its handling, 
we have a good possibility in creating a new type of beauty 
which has not been well considered so far, by synthesizing the 
mathematical and the natural beauties. 

iii) It is very common that artists raise aesthetic effects of 
their pictures by emphasizing the principal parts, changing 
color tones, modifying and distorting the figures to be drawn, 
and so on. Further artists often make pictures by using mainly 
their inspiration and imagination. The beauty represented in 
these cases is created by the human’s creative powers. There¬ 
fore, in order to treat it systematically and automatically we 


48 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 










NOV DEC 1 976 


49 













































































50 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


Fig. 5: “Hellow Sunflowers!, II.” Original size 24 x 34 cm 2 . Computer execution time 48 sec on a FACOM 230-75. 






















































































































































































































































































Perhaps we will have to 
educate and train the 
computer so that it can 
appreciate beauty. 


must implement, more or less, the creative 
powers to computers. This is a very 
important task, because the creative powers 
are so much widely required in almost all of 
the art works; even in handling 
mathematical functions we encounter many 
problems whose solutions require the 
creative powers, such as how to use the 
functions in the drawing. On the other hand, 
the implementation is certainly a difficult 
task. We must investigate many things: 
What procedures are effective in creating 
beauty? How can we realize them by a 
computer? And so on. Perhaps we will have 
to educate and train the computer so that it 
can appreciate beauty, by making trials and 
errors. An important strategy which we 
would like to propose here is to ease the 
difficulty by adopting our definition of beauty 
and considering all things from this view¬ 
point. We have seen that the definition is 
persuasive and useful for the previous two 
types of beauty. We think it is also useful 
enough for the creative beauty. For exam¬ 
ple, the artist’s techniques mentioned at the 
beginning of this section can be explained in 
part as that artists recover harmony from 
otherwise excess of variety. Of course there 
are many ways in representing harmony and 
variety, and much more detailed in¬ 
vestigations are necessary in the actual 
programming. But above example seems to 
show usefulness of our strategy clearly. We 
can not say much about the realization of 
creative beauty through a computer at 
present, because we have not considered it 
yet. A few years later we will surely be able to 
say much about it. 

Finally we show our recent works in Figs. 
5, 6, and 7. They were produced by our 
system for computer art named ART-3, 
whose main functions are i) transformation 
of the input figures, ii) elimination of the 
invisible parts, and iii) to paint the surfaces 
by various patterns. ART-3 contains more 
than fifty mathematical functions for the 
figure transformation and the pattern 
generation. We can see from these figures 
how ART-3 works and how mathematical 
and natural beauties are united by it. 


Fig. 7: “Surmarine walk, II.” Original size 24 x 50 cm 2 . 
Computer execution time 83 sec on a FACOM 230-75. 


Figure 6 appears on the cover. 


NOV DEC 1 976 


51 






































































































































LET US FIRST MAKE IT 

or 

AND NOW I SAW, 
THOUGH TOO LATE 

or 

ROBINSON CRUSOE: A BOOK FOR 
ALL COMPUTING SEASONS 


by Robert Taylor 

Teachers College, Columbia University 


Upon re-reading Robinson Crusoe recently, I was struck 
by the numerous parallels between the activities of Crusoe 
on his island and the work of today's analysts and 
programmers. Crusoe laid plans; established timetables; 
implemented solutions, modified his implementations, and 
occasionally even abandoned them; provided backup for 
various system components; and so forth. One might even 
argue that he trained a junior programmer or analyst named 
Friday. 



THIS I DID WITHOUT FIRE, BY MERE MALLET AND CHISEL 


The book is so rich in readable case studies appropriate 
for today's analyst or programmer to ponder that any 
computing professional would do well to read (or re-read) it 
at his earliest convenience. Why should what many regard 
as the first novel in the English language be so appropriate 
to today's analysts and programmers? Because Defoe was a 
good story-teller and because human problem solving hasn't 
changed as much as we sometimes like to imagine. Consider 
just two examples from Defoe's text: (1) Robinson 
Crusoe's unsuccessful attempt to escape from his island by 
building his own dugout canoe and (2) his successful 
attempt to guard against the catastrophic loss of his goat 
herd. The first illustrates how need causes the desperate to 
overlook fatal design flaws and attempt impossible 
implementations. The second illustrates the design and 
implementation of a backup system. 

Attempting to implement a catastrophically flawed system 

The first illustration concerns Crusoe's attempt to build 
a dugout canoe with which he can escape from the island. 
Note that the seductive attractiveness of a portion of the 
system (building the canoe) clouds his critical insight into 
the major flaw of the overall system (launching the canoe 
once it's built). 

At length, I began to think whether it was not possible to 
make myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of these 
climates make, even without tools, or, as I might say, without 
hands, of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought 
possible, but easy, and pleased myself extremely with the 
idea of making it, and with my having much more 
convenience for it than any of the Negroes or Indians; but 
not at all considering the particular inconveniences which I 
lay under more than the Indians did, viz., the want of hands 
to move it into the water when it was made, a difficulty 
much harder for me to surmount than all the consequences 
of want of tools could be to them: for what could it avail me, 
if, after I had chosen my tree, and with much trouble cut it 
down, and might be able with my tools to hew and dub the 
outside into the proper shape of a boat, and burn or cut the 
inside to make it hollow, so as to make a boat of it — if, after 
all this, I must leave it just where I found it, and was not able 
to launch it into the water? 

One would imagine, if I had had the least reflection upon 
my mind of my circumstances while I was making this boat, I 
should have immediately thought how I was to get it into the 
sea: but my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage in it, 
that I never once considered how I should get it off the land; 
and it was really, in its own nature, more easy for me to 
guide it over forty-five miles of sea, than the forty-five 
fathoms of land, where it lay, to set it afloat in the water. 

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that 
ever man did, who had any of his senses awake. I pleased 


52 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 















myself with the design, without determining whether I was 
able to undertake it; not but that the difficulty of launching 
my boat came often into my head; but I put a stop on my 
own inquiries into it, by this foolish answer: Let us first 
make it; I warrant I will find some way or other to get it 
along when it is done. 

This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness 
of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I felled a cedar 
tree, and I question much whether Solomon ever had such a 
one for the building of the Temple at Jerusalem; it was five 
feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stump, 
and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of 
twenty-two feet, where it lessened and then parted into 
branches. It was not without infinite labour that I felled this 
tree; I was twenty days hacking and hewing at the bottom, 
and fourteen more getting the branches and limbs, and the 
vast spreading head of it, cut off; after this, it cost me a 
month to shape it and dub it to a proportion, and to 
something like the bottom of a boat, that it might swim 
upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three months more 
to clear the inside, and work it out so as to make an exact 
boat of it: this I did, indeed, without fire, by mere mallet and 
chisel, and by the dint of hard labour, till I had brought it to 
be a very handsome periagua, and big enough to have carried 
six-and-twenty men, and consequently big enough to have 
carried me and all my cargo. 

When I had gone through this work, I was extremely 
delighted with it. The boat was really much bigger than ever I 
saw a canoe or a periagua that was made of one tree, in my 
life. Many a weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure; and 
there remained nothing but to get it into the water; which, 
had I accomplished, I make no question but I should have 
begun the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to be 
performed, that ever was undertaken. 



But all my devices to get it into the water failed me; 
though they cost me inexpressible labour too. It lay about 
one hundred yards from the water, and not more; but the 
first inconvenience was, it was up hill towards the creek. 
Well, to take away this discouragement, I resolved to dig into 
the surface of the earth and so make a declivity; this I began, 
and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains; but who grudges 
pains that have their deliverance in view? When this was 
worked through, and this difficulty managed, I was still much 
the same, for I could no more stir the canoe than I could the 
other boat. Then I measured the distance of ground, and 
resolved to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up to the 
canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the water. 
Well, I began this work; and when I began to enter upon it, 
and calculate how deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the 
stuff was to be thrown out, I found by the number of hands I 
had, having none but my own, that it must have been ten or 
twelve years before I could have gone through with it; for the 
shore lay so high, that at the upper end it must have been at 
least twenty feet deep; this attempt, though with great 
reluctancy, I was at length obliged to give over also. 

This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too late, 
the folly of beginning a work before we count the cost, and 
before we judge rightly of our own strength to go through 
with it. 

This passage gives a very graphic picture of how the 
seduction takes place. His decision to "first make it" and 
then to worry about launching the boat later characterizes 
all too well the misplaced optimism we all seem to succumb 
to from time to time in designing and implementing 
systems. 


Backing up major system components 

The second illustration concerns Crusoe's design and 
implementation of a backup supply of goats. Earlier in the 
narrative, Crusoe went to considerable pain to capture and 
domesticate some wild goats and they have since become a 
principal component in his diet. 

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my 
other affairs: for I had a great concern upon me for my little 
herd of goats; they were not only a ready supply to me on 
every occasion, and began to be sufficient for me, without 
the expense of powder and shot, but also without the fatigue 
of hunting after the wild ones; and I was loath to lose the 
advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up over 
again. 

For this purpose, after long consideration, I could think 
of but two ways to preserve them: one was, to find another 
convenient place to dig a cave under ground, and to drive 
them into it every night; and the other was, to enclose two or 
three little bits of land, remote from one another, and as 
much concealed as I could, where I might keep about half a 
dozen young goats in each place; so that if any disaster 
happened to the flock in general, I might be able to raise 
them again with little trouble and time; and this, though it 
would require a great deal of time and labour, I thought was 
the most rational design. 

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most 
retired parts of the island; and I pitched upon one, which was 
as private, indeed, as my heart could wish for: it was a little 
damp piece of ground, in the middle of the hollow and thick 
woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost myself once 
before, endeavouring to come back that way from the eastern 
part of the island. Here I found a clear piece of land, near 
three acres, so surrounded with woods, that it was almost an 
enclosure by nature; at least, it did not want near so much 
labour to make it so as the other pieces of ground I had 
worked so hard at. 

I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, 
and in less than a month’s time I had so fenced it round, that 
my flock, or herd, call it which you please, who were not so 
wild now as at first they might be supposed to be, were well 
enough secured in it; so, without any further delay, I removed 
ten young she-goats and two he-goats to this piece; and when 
they were there, I continued to perfect the fence, till I had 
made it as secure as the other, which, however, I did at more 
leisure, and it took me up more time by a great deal. 

That Robinson Crusoe should provide backup for such 
an essential component of his survival as his goat herd 
seems so obvious as to need no comment. However, how 
often do professional programmers and analysts fail utterly 
to provide backup for equally essential components of their 
own systems? 

Further reflections 

Cases like the two just presented abound in the book. 
Mistakes and successes are even replicated, just as they too 
often are in the contemporary systems world. The insight 
which these cases afford is particularly appealing because 
the adventure does not purport to deal with systems or 
computing at all! Moreover, though the cases largely lack 
the complex human interface problems common to systems 
involving many people (Robinson Crusoe lives and labors 
alone on his island for most of the narrative), this 
simplification allows Defoe to strip problems to their 
essentials. Crusoe's work is done primarily for himself. He is 
his own end user. As such, he must, in the most literal of all 
senses, "live with" the system he creates. Defoe thus 
presents us with the entire systems environment in a very 
compact form. 

What else lies within the narrative of Crusoe's life on the 
island? Get a copy of Robinson Crusoe , read it, and find 
out. Be prepared to see your systems work in a refreshing 
new light. And should you feel too critical of Crusoe's 
solutions to his many problems, notice how long he 
survived. His solutions were viable enough to keep him 
going for 27 years, 2 months, and 19 days. Can any of us 
top that? 


NOV DEC 1 976 


53 

















WHAT IS 
COMPUTER 
LITERACY? 


by David Moursund 
University of Oregon 


The concept of "computer literacy" is receiving much 
mention today. Over a period of time, we have developed a 
definition. 

Computer literacy refers to a knowledge of the 
non-technical and low-technical aspects of the capa¬ 
bilities and limitations of computers, and of the social, 
vocational, and educational implications of computers. 
While such a definition can provide a focus for thought and 
discussion, it still does not pinpoint what is meant by 
computer literacy. Among other things it does not provide 
a measure of computer literacy nor a method for improving 
a person's level of computer literacy. 

Most of you are familiar with the question "What is 
IQ?" and the answer "IQ is what is measured by an IQ 
test." It seems to me that we are at a similar stage of 
development for CL (computer literacy). Lately, many 
course outlines for computer concepts or computer literacy 
courses at the college level have been developed at Oregon 
and elsewhere. These courses are designed to raise a 
person's level of CL, and a knowledge of the content of 
such courses constitutes a certain level of computer 
literacy. 

The University of Oregon's computer concepts course is 
a no-prerequisite, low level, introductory computer science 
course. Its major goal is to raise a student's level of 
computer literacy. Over a period of six years the course has 
evolved to the current point, where its content is 
approximately 1/3 computer programming and 2/3 
non-programming materials. A Venn diagram of the course 
content is given below. 



In the diagram the computer programming, computer 
usage, and hands-on experience provides a foundation upon 
which the non-programming aspects of the course are built. 
Each of these four areas strongly overlaps the other three, 
and each supports the other three. A well balanced course 
needs aspects of each of these four areas. 

It seems difficult to develop a course that is coherent 
and well integrated, and still preserves a reasonable balance 
among the four major areas. Probably the computer 
programming and related computer usage and hands-on 
experience is the major source of trouble. Most computer 
programming texts are designed to teach computer 
programming. That is, their major goal is to move a student 
rapidly along the computer programmer path. Most such 
books contain little information on the capabilities, 
limitations, or implications of computers. The material is 
not organized in a manner to make it fit in well with 
non-programming, computer literacy materials. 

To overcome this difficulty in the UO's course, I have 
written a 150 page book, BASIC Programming for 
Computer Literacy. This book is currently being used in the 
course, and seems to be a satisfactory text. It is available 
for $4.00 (which includes postage and handling) from the 
Computer Science Department, University of Oregon, 
Eugene, Oregon 97403. 

The non-programming content of a CL course can range 
over a wide variety of topics, and will depend to a certain 
extent upon the interests and knowledge of the instructor. 
One cannot tell if a person is computer literate on the basis 
of a single true-false or multiple choice question. That is, 
CL refers to a broad, integrated knowledge of low level 
computer science. Such knowledge must include many facts 
and how these facts interrelate. But it is difficult to isolate 
a single fact that is indispensable, or fundamental. 

On the non-programming content of the course, I use an 
objective-type final exam. In fall 1974 this exam consisted 
of 150 questions. An item analysis was run on these 
questions to determine which were the more difficult and 
which best differentiated the students who scored high on 
the test from those who scored lower on the test. Thirty of 
the better questions (harder, and good differentiators) have 
been selected and appear at the end of this article. A 
student making an A or high B on the exam probably 
answered at least 3/4 of these questions correctly. 

The answers in most cases are not obvious. The 30 
question test was administered to students on the first day 
of the winter term 1975 course. The class average was 
14.75. Random guessing by all students would have 
produced a class average of about 12. 

Taken individually, the merits of any single question are 
certainly subject to debate. One can easily argue that the 
question is not relevant to his concept of what constitutes 
computer literacy. Taken as a whole, however, such a group 
of questions provides a reasonably broad measure of many 
parts of the non-programming content of a computer 
literacy course. Try the test yourself. Try it on your 
students. Individual questions can provide a good basis for 
class discussion or individual student reading/study 
projects. 


54 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 













COMPUTER LITERACY QUIZ 


1. All computers understand the language BASIC because, 
as its name implies, it is the most fundamental of 
computer languages. 

2. For any problem within its capability, a computer can 
always solve it more quickly and cheaper than can be 
done manually. 

3. Example of random access storage devices include: 

1. core and disk 

2. magnetic tape and punch cards 

3. disk and magnetic tape 

4. paper tape and punch cards 

5. all of the above 

4. M.I.C.R. stands for magnetic ink character recognition, 
and is used on bank checks in the United States. 

5. Which of the following does not manufacture and sell 
computers? 

1. Control Data Corporation 

2. IBM 

3. Digital Equipment Corp. 

4. Honeywell 

5. American Telephone and Telegraph Company 

6. A typical CAI drill and practice program: 

1. works only when one is teaching elementary 
arithmetic 

2. aks the student questions and checks his answers 

3. forces all the students to work the same set of 
problems 

4. allows three incorrect responses before going on to 
the next problem 

5. none of the above 

7. Although learning a machine language is difficult, once 
one has mastered it, he can write programs that will be 
understood by any machine. 

8. The best computer programs for playing chess and 
checkers are based upon having the computer memorize 
tens of thousands of board positions (i.e. rote memory). 

9. It is now possible to manufacture a single large-scale 
integrated circuit, called a chip, which contains all of 
the circuitry for a CPU. 

10. The concept and use of punched cards was developed: 

1. before 1900 

2. about 1920 

3. about 1940 

4. about 1960 

11. PLATO is an educational computer system which uses a 
gas plasma display terminal. 

12. In the early days of computers, all programming was 
done: 

1. in FORTRAN 

2. in BASIC 

3. in machine language 

4. inUNIVAC 

13. The Turing "Imitation Game": 

1. has a computer imitate a business environment to 
train executives in decision-making. 

2. has a person imitate a computer to find program 
errors. 

3. has a computer simulate a complex situation 
providing a detailed study of alternative effects. 

4. has a computer pretend to be human, demonstrat¬ 
ing artificial intelligence. 

14. The science of control and feedback theory is called 
cybernetics, and Norbert Weiner contributed a lot to 
this area. 


15. One threat to privacy comes from the willingness of 
most people to provide information about themselves 
voluntarily. 

16. Which of the following is a characteristic of a problem 
which is well-suited to solution by the computer? 

1. Problem solution involves value judgments 

2. All necessary decisions are quantifiable 

3. The problem is ill-defined 

4. The solution to the problem is needed only one 
time 

17. The largest user of computers in the U. S. Government 
is: 

1. The Internal Revenue Service 

2. The Census Bureau 

3. The military 

4. Congress 

5. None of these. 

18. When one is buying a computer system, he might 
purchase hardware and software from two different 
companies. 

19. Magnetic tape is an effective medium in operations 
requiring frequent access to data on a random basis. 

20. Very large computer programs are apt to contain 
undetected errors even after the programs have been 
used for several years. 

21. NCIC is a method whereby checks printed with a 
special ink can be machine read. 

22. By 1950 about 1000 electronic digital computers had 
been manufactured and placed into service. 

23. The fastest core memories have retrieval times of about 
one millisecond. 

24. Using an 8 bit code (such as on magnetic tape), how 
many different characters can be represented? 

1. 8 

2. 16 

3. 32 

4. 256 

5. 512 

25. A computer's memory can think about and solve a 
problem much in the same way as a person's brain 
works on a problem. 

26. A major problem with computerized data banks is 
guarding against erroneous data getting into the system. 

27. A disadvantage of punched card machines is that the 
speed of processing is limited by the movement of 
mechanical parts and devices. 

28. Which of the following is not an example of the 
administrative application of computers in education? 

1. Payroll 

2. Scheduling 

3. Student records 

4. Computer-assisted instruction 

29. Why do computer* scientists write computer programs 
to play games? 

1. Computer scientists have lots of fun doing this. 

2. To communicate the ability of the computer. 

3. To study the nature of problem solving. 

4. All of the above. 

5. None of the above. 

30. Computer costs (measured in terms of computations 
per dollar) have leveled off in the last five years. 


Answers on page 81. 


NOV DEC 1 976 


55 







A Place for Today 


by 

Joseph N. Vitale 



The futile anger of an impatient traffic-stalled driver, 
expressed by long blasts of a car horn, dissipated as it filtered 
through his office window. It became the only melodious sound 
he had heard all day. Up until then he sat, mind and body 
bathing in dreariness, staring at the rain-soaked window and 
listening to an almost-cyclic splatter. The wind seemed to drive 
periodic herds of rain into that side of the building. Blow, you 
bastard, he thought, it’s music to my ears! As if commanded, 
the car horn responded even more irately. 

Christ, it’s dark outside! What time was it? As he turned 
toward the clock on the wall opposite the window, his eyes 
scanned a variety of computer-generated art forms: Miss 
September Playmate of last year with heavy typescript in the 
right spots; a yellowing Santa Claus sleigh led by only six 
reindeer above which were the letters Merry Xmas and a 
Happy, the rest had been torn off some time ago; several 
neatly-drawn trigonometric curves among others. It was only 
after he noted the time at 3:15 PM that he let out a groan from 
the pain that originated in his neck. Too young to get a stiff neck 
on a rainy day. 

He looked down at his desk; papers full of mathematical 
equations, large sheets covered with logical flow diagrams, as¬ 
sorted printouts and decks of punched cards. What did it 
mean? He studied his latest project; a speedier technique by 
which the computer could approximate the numerical solution 
to a set of coupled differential equations. What the hell did it all 
mean? 

The rain seemed to fade and in his mind the quietness of the 
empty office amplified until the silence was olive-oil pure. Then 
he was no longer alone! They came again! Large faceless 
bodyless heads with long hair, medium-length beards covering 


high-necked collars, through his office doorway, across his 
desk and out his window, each with a name lettered over an 
empty face: Leibnitz, Gauss, LaPlace — on they came — 
LeGendre, Fibonacci, great mathematicians all! And again, 
also, he realized that they had sat in such offices, and on such 
dismal days as this, most likely, established much of the theory 
he was using. And he? He had contributed nothing today, a void 
which was made even more monumental by the fact that he had 
five million dollars worth of computer at his disposal. The rains 
came again and he despaired. I am nothing! 

His depression settled on a buzzing sound deep within him. 
He decided he was hearing himself think. Christ, he thought, 
not only can’t I get my mind together, but I’ve got to listen to 
myself producing nothing. But wait! It was outside of himself. 
The intercom on his desk was buzzing away! He picked it up 
and his secretary announced the arrival of his 3:30 PM 
appointment with Miss Ann Coyle. 

The young woman sat across the desk from him, her legs 
crossed, dress raised over the upper knee to an inquisitive 
length; her long sandy hair was drawn tightly into a bun high on 
the back of her head and large thick-rimmed circular glasses 
covered deep-blue eyes which betrayed an *1 dare you’ look. 

Not another one! Not today! Not after Gauss, LeGendre and 
company! He was constantly beseiged by a variety of people 
who wanted demonstrations of the computer’s incredible feats: 


56 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 





































tic-tac-toe, horoscopes and various other games ingeniously 
programmed by people like himself to give the computer a 
humanistic appearance. What bullshit! Inwardly, he was 
satisfyingly-proud of the fact that he knew of one binary digit — 
called a ‘bit’ in the computer — which, if changed in the 
computer’s central processor from a zero to a one, would drive 
the machine stark raving mad; a berserk multimillion dollar 
totality of illogic, destroying itself ad infinitum or until someone 
discovered and pulled the plug. 

“I know nothing about computers,” she said, her voice 
humble but firm. So what else is new, he thought. “My primary 
interest is the philosophy of art,” she continued. The what of art 
. . . the philosophy of art! What the hell? 

. . and I had been directed to you.” she finished an 
explanation, much more confident now. Her skirt rose slightly 
higher on the knee. 

“How do you think I might help you?” he heard himself 
asking. “Computers have been used to generate artistic 
pictures using special plotting devices. There are situations, at 
some museums, where computers have been used to do 
selective retrieval from files of art objects. For example, given 
complete computerized collections of all paintings in a 
particular museum, certain retrieval programs can be used 
which might list out a total description of those paintings which 
satisfy chosen sets of properties presented to those programs.” 
He looked up at the crack in the ceiling, almost hoping that 
water might seep through. He continued, “I suppose there are 
needs, by various scholars, also, to do statistical analyses by 
computer on data that physically describe paintings in certain 
groups . . . like what is the average weight of all paintings in a 
particular group, or mean canvas areas, or something like 
that.” He stopped to let her absorb his statement. 

“But,” he went on, in a rapidly tiring voice, “I’m not sure I can 
see how a computer might be used when dealing with the . . . 
the philosophy of art.” He raised his eyebrows and peered 
heavily through her glasses. Am I sinking in, he wondered? No, 
I am not, he answered his own question. 

“Please correct me if I say anything that sounds like non¬ 
sense,” she said. “I have heard that the computer can do... uh 
... unbelievable things and I wonder ...” her voice oozed lazily 
into silence. 

“You wonder what? Let’s have it!” Christ, let’s have it! 

“Well, I wonder if the computer can get two people to talk to 
each other and discuss their philosophies!” she rambled out the 
phrases in a quick jerky rhythm. 

“Oh, is that all? You don’t need a computer for that! What 
you need is called a telephone!” He was getting somewhat 
impatient. This girl is either very misguided or very strange. 

“No, let me finish.” She smiled. “The people I am talking 
about lived at different times! One is Marcel DuChamp, the 
French-American artist who died in 1968. The other is Marshall 
McLuhan, the American art philosopher who is still alive.” She 
spoke much more confidently, now. “You see, it would be in¬ 
triguing to hear them discuss their philosophies with each 
other. It would be particularly interesting if the computer could 
generate a dialogue between them in the form of a two-man 
play. While . . . although their lives overlapped . . . it’s the one 
thing they never did . . . talk to each other. And yet, it would 
have been one of the most stimulating discussions in the his¬ 
tory of art philosophy.” The skirt was definitely up higher than 
ever now and the eyes twinkled, almost immorally. 

He gulped hard. He rose from his desk, walked over to the 
window and looked outside. It had stopped raining now and it 
was much lighter. A rainbow was forming to the West. The 
traffic was moving a lot freer now, too. They went out this 
window . . . Leibnitz, Fibonacci and the rest. Where did they 
go? And what did it mean? 

He turned and stared at the back of her head, concentrating 
on the bun as if it were some crystal ball in which he might see 
some meaning. Was there any special association between the 
events of today — the rain, the parade of the faceless ones, this 


girl with her philosophy of art, DuChamp and McLuhan, the 
computer and the rainbow? Was there any special association? 

Association? Association! The phrase came slowly, but it 
came, first rolling soundlessly off his tongue, then circling his 
mind like a stock market ticker-tape. Linear Associative 
Information Retrieval! He had read of it some months ago in 
one of the journals; a new theoretical technique which could be 
used to determine the sameness or differentness of two 
documents ... to indicate the snynonymy or contiguity of two 
documents by using similarity matrices with respect to 
assigned keywords which described the documents. Weren’t 
the ideas of sameness or differentness when applied to 
concepts rather than documents a way to distinguish 
philosophies — basically the writings of the men! Yes, yes! His 
mind accelerated now, building the basic steps, already seeing 
mental images of flowcharts, computer programs and, finally, 
dialogue printing at a computer terminal! Dialogue between 
DuChamp and McLuhan! 

And wait! Why stop at DuChamp and McLuhan? Certainly, 
if the computer could be made to generate discussion between 
them, then the possibilities were endless. What about Adolph 
Hitler and Karl Marx? Or William Shakespeare and William 
Faulkner? Or any two people who had published a great deal? 
Or any three people? Unbelievable! But possible! Round table 
discussions between any of the eminent people in the history of 
the world! 

A large bodyless head came through the doorway of his 
office, across his desk and out the window. Only this time it was 
not faceless! 

“Miss Coyle,” he said, “could you bring me some literature 
which contains a representative sample of the philosophies of 
DuChamp and McLuhan? I think ... I think I might be able to 
help you.” 




" . . No thanks, ... Just scanning ..." 


NOV-DEC 1 976 


57 


































THE REACTIVE 
ENGINE PAPER 



by TERRY WINOGRAD 

This paper, written in October of 1974, originally appeared 
as a file on the computer at the Artificial Intelligence 
Laboratory at Stanford University where Terry Winograd 
is currently leading courses in computer science, linguistics, 
and the social implications of computing. At the time of 
writing the people at SAIL were discussing how to design 
their new timesharing system. Another file was also 
maintained on the system in which comments, suggestions 
and objections could be stored. It is an argument for 
personal computing — not an essay, but a sort of 
cybernated commentary. 

—Marc Le Brun 

NOTE: 

This is written in an attempt to provoke discussion, 
so it may overstate, exaggerate, etc. It is written 
from the viewpoint of the Ivory (silicon?) tower, 
so the issue is “What is possible?”, not “What is now 
practical?” After all, working at the AI lab you would 
never realize that there are still people in the world 
(even at Stanford!!) who talk to computers by cutting 
little holes in pieces of cardboard. 

WHY TIME-SHARING IS OBSOLETE: 

Time-sharing is obsolete because it is based on the 
assumption that a person interacting with a computer large 
enough to do serious work cannot make good use of its 
computing power except during a fraction of the time. 

GEDANKEN EXPERIMENT: 

Imagine that by a decree of God (or ARPA or whoever) 
we were only allowed to run one user at a time on the 
PDP-10. All the systems efforts would be directed to 
making each person's time on the computer as profitable 
as possible. What kind of system would you organize? 

REACTIVE SYSTEMS: 

I will borrow a term from Alan Kay (from whom I have 
also absorbed many of these ideas) to contrast our current 
"interactive" system with an imagined "reactive" system. 

A reactive system contains a full-scale processor whose 
only job is to cater to a single user. It can therefore 
afford to do relatively large amounts of processing when 
he or she is doing the simplest of tasks, like editing or 
giving monitor commands. It can maintain complex 
reactive graphic displays in real time (e.g. the multiple 
windows in the current SMALLTALK system). 1 

CLAIM: 

The advantages of a reactive system over current 
interactive systems will be as large as the 
advantages of interactive over batch. 

NATURAL COMMUNICATION: 

One of the main advantages of a reactive system is that it 
can afford to do extensive processing to figure out what 
the user wants to do, based on both what he or she says 
and what the current context is. This is the main feature 
of natural language as a communication system — it is 
designed (evolved) with the assumption that the hearer 
will always make use of context and a shared base of 
knowledge in his interpretation. People are much more 
efficient at communicating in this style, regardless of 
whether it is in actual "natural language" or in some 
artificial language. There are lots of bits and pieces of 
this in current systems — everything from default file 
extensions to command completion to the rather 
extensive set of facilities (like spelling correction) in 
INTERLISP. 2 On current interactive systems there 
is a strong tendency to avoid these because they involve 
running a higher-level program to interpret inputs. With 


a reactive system, the bottleneck is the user's typing 
speed (although we could even imagine some sort of 
simple voice inputs if we pushed this idea far enough), 
so we can afford to do lots of processing. 

REMEMBERING AND DEDUCING: 

Often the problem isn't that we want to specify a command 
in a way which needs a smart processor to understand what 
it is, but in a way which takes a smart processor to do it. 

If we were talking at the command level to a program with 
even limited deductive capabilities (the kinds now put into 
robotics programs) it would free us from much of the 
tedium of converting our desires into "machine code." 

Why shouldn't we be able to say in some language "put 
the current who display in a file" and let the system worry 
about the details of just what needs to be run. 

The whole range of things like UNDO, REDO, etc., which 
are creeping into languages like INTER LISP could be 
extended to cover every aspect of our communication 
with the computer — it could remember the context of 
what we have been doing, and make the necessary deductions 
to do rather sophisticated things (e.g., redoing some sequence 
of actions, but tailoring it to apply to a different kind of 
data object). 

EDITING: Maxim: People Never Edit Character Strings. 

Whenever I am editing, I am editing a document, a 
message, a program, or some other structure about which I 
know much more than the simple sequence Qf characters. 

The reactive system should always be dealing with my 
editing in this way. Formatting systems for documents 
should be interactive and incremental — what I see on my 
screen should always be what I would see on the Xerox 
Graphics Printer when I put it out. This includes fonts, 
justification, diagram placement, etc. etc. Of course the 
program should be able to reconfigure and modify this in 
a whole variety of ways, but I should always be working 
with a document, not a source file (or even a screen- 
editor!) When I put in a new word or line, things should 
move to make room for it. Things like spelling-checking 
could be done incrementally, looking up each word as it 
is typed in, then when I ask for it, interactively pointing 
out those not in the dictionary (e.g. by flashing them) 
and letting me make changes. For programs, the editor 
should be part of an integrated programming and debugging 
system (as in INTERLISP), not a separate program at all. 

PROGRAMMING AND DEBUGGING: 

We have glimpses of integrated systems in SMALLTALK, 
INTERLISP, ECL 3 and Swinehart's thesis 4 describing a 
SAIL-based system. Often these are forced into horrible 
compromises by the fact that they are walking the line 
between wanting the user to have the full power a 
program can offer at each step of the way, while having 
to run them on time-sharing systems which are based on 
the assumption that you really only want to process part 
of the time. They fall far short of putting in the kind of 
integrated knowledge-base and deductive programs which 
would really allow the system to act as a programming 
assistant. They do not make full use of the possibilities 
for incremental compiling (coupled with the editor) which 
can give the user the feeling of always working with an 
interpreted system, while actually having the efficiency 
of careful compiling. They are only beginning to make use 
of the kind of graphic interactions which can greatly 
broaden the programmer program bandwidth. I have 


Reprinted with permission of the author. Copyright 1975 by the 
CoEvolution Quarterly. Sausalito, CA 94965. 


58 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 







ranted about this elsewhere 5 so will say no more here, 
except to note that this is probably the most important 
area where reactive systems will change our concept of 
programming. 

IS IT WORTH IT? 

The same could be (has been and still is) asked about 
interactive computing. Ask the programmer who has become 
accustomed to an interactive debugging system and then has 
to go back to octal (or hexadecimal) dumps. In the short 
run (and we are always in the short run) this is a difficult 
question, and I will take the escape given above — it is 
certainly worth it if our research grants will support it. 

In the long run I don't think there is any doubt. The costs 
of processing, memory, etc. are going down and although 
there may be ultimate limits, we are still far from them. 
Anything which trades off increased processing for 
increased ease of computer use by people will be eventually 
justifiable on practical grounds. Twenty years from now 
this question will be as outdated as it would be to ask now 
whether it is really worth having the computer go to the 
work of accepting programs in symbolic form, since people 
are perfectly capable of converting them to binary numbers 
and entering them that way. 

CAN IT BE DONE WITH CURRENT TECHNOLOGY? 
Researchers at a number of places (including XEROX and 
MIT-AI) are currently designing and building "personal 
computers" which have a processing power far beyond 
standard minis or "smart terminals." In fact many of the 
ideas above are being implemented at Xerox. By connecting 
these into a simple network with shared facilities for things 
like specialized 1-0 (XGP, A-D and D-A, ARPANET, etc.) 
and large file storage (allowing file sharing), these computers 
could currently provide everything we get from a time¬ 
sharing system, while opening the way to all of the advantages 
of reactive systems. At the moment, the cost per user (even 
if they were commercially available — which they aren't) 
would be significantly greater than an improved this-generation 
time sharing system of the kind being planned at SAIL. 
However the picture is not that clear if we look ahead the 
3-5 years necessary to actually get systems running. Careful 
thought needs to be given to realistically assessing what 
hardware will (or could if we put effort into it) be available 
by then, and how much it will really cost. 

WHY SHOULD WE CARE? 

This paper was circulated only partially because there is a 
general interest in talking about systems. There are 
particular reasons to think seriously about these issues now. 

Al researchers (particularly John McCarthy) have always 
been at the cutting edge of new systems ideas (like time¬ 
sharing, list processing, etc.). In this case I think we have 
even more to offer, since many of the techniques which are 
needed to build reactive systems are "Al techniques" 
involving knowledge bases, deduction, etc. We have the 
option of taking the viewpoint of "wiping the slate clean," 
thinking in terms of what we would really like to do with 
the new technologies, rather than incrementally building 
on the ideas and equipment now available. Even if the 
appropriate personal computers were not available right 
now, much of the design and debugging could be done on 
current systems if we had a clear idea of what we expected 
from the hardware. 


m 

xxx 


X* 

xxx 


xxx 


xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx 

XXX XXXX XXXxXXXX XXXXX** 

X XX XX XX XX XX xxxxxx 


XXXXXXXX 
» XXXX XXXX 
XXXX VX XX 






i xxxxx 
xxxxx 
tx xxxxx 

XXV X 
XXXX 

xxxxxx 

xxxxx 


XXXX XX XX 


XXX X 


XX 

XX XXX 

XXXXkX xxx 

XXX XXXXX XX» x 

XX XXXXXXXXX 


XXXXXXXXXXX 

XXXXXXXXX 



XX 


xxxxxxx 


xxv 



X XXXXXXX 


xx xx xx 



XX 

XX 

XX 



UlUUb 

ou 

uuu 

UbUU 

uuou 

UUUUUUUlUUblUbUbU v/OUU 

C UlUlUlUuu 


occ 

cooc 

oto 

oca 


XXXXXXXXX 

X xxx 


X/x* 


XXXX X 


PUNCH LINE: I believe that reactive systems are 
“where it will be” a few years from now, and we 
have the choice of leading or waiting to follow. ■ 


XXX XX 

xx xx 


REFERENCES 

1. Personal Computing by Alan Kay, Learning Group, 
Xerox Palo Alto Research Center and A Personal Computer 
for Children of All Ages by Alan Kay, ACM National 
Conference, August 1975. 

2. INTERLISP Reference Manual by Warren Teitelman, 
Xerox Palo Alto Research Center. 

3. The Treatment of Data Types in ELI by Ben Wegbreit, 
Communications of the ACM 17, 5 May 1974. 

4. COPILOT: A Multiple Proems Approach to Interactive 
Programming Systems by Daniel Carl Swinehart, Stanford 
Artificial Intelligence Laboratory AIM 230. 

5. Breaking the Complexity Barrier (again) by Terry 
Winograd, ACM Sigplan Notices 10:1 January 1975. 



NOV DEC 1 976 


59 






























A Day in the Life 

of 

Able Charlie 


by Frederik Fohl 


t 



60 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 






































The time was 0900:00 A.M., and Charlie woke up. 

The first thing he had to do was to find out who he was that 
day, and so he explored his memory. He discovered that he was 
a white male American, thirty-two years old, married, employed 
in the sales department of a public utility company. He had two 
children, a boy and a girl. He had made $17,400 in the year just 
past, and if it hadn’t been for Harriet’s part-time teaching salary 
he didn’t know how they would have managed. He still owed 
over $19,000 on their $38,000 house, $1900 on the car and 
nearly a thousand on the loan for modernizing the kitchen they 
had taken out two years before. Moreover, his daughter, 
Florence, had unfortunately inherited his bite, and so the 
orthodontist was going to cost him fifteen hundred dollars very 
soon. Charlie discovered that many of his thoughts were of 
money. 

However, his memory contained many other things. He 
became aware that he was a fan of the Los Angeles Dodgers, 
and that he had volunteered as a Little League coach against the 
day when his four-year-old son, Chuck, was old enough to play. 
Charlie remembered that he was inclined to favor Chuck over 
the girl. It was curious that he could not remember what color 
Chuck’s hair was, or whether Florence was doing well in school, 
but Charlie didn’t realize that it was curious and so he continued 
to explore his memory. 

He was a heavy smoker, drank a can of beer now and then, 
especially in hot weather, but didn’t go much for the hard stuff. 
Although he liked looking at other women, he did not go beyond 
looking. Although he enjoyed a game of poker twice a month, he 
did not care to gamble heavy stakes. He drove a small foreign 
car (it was not clear whether it was a Datsun, a VW or a Fiat), on 
which he got 24.7 miles to the gallon in everyday use and nearly 
29 miles a gallon the road. (He did not know what color it was. It 
did not occur to him to wonder why.) Charlie remembered that 
he was active in his party’s politics (he did not know whether it 
was Democrat or Republican) and that he thought the mayor of 
his town was a crook. But he could not have said the mayor’s 
name. 

All these things about himself Charlie apprehended in a very 
short time indeed. He then spent somewhat longer remember¬ 
ing what brand of cigarettes he smoked, where he bought them, 
what had happened when he tried to give them up (his wife 
complained of his short temper and begged him to start again) 
and what other brands he had tried. He rehearsed the services 
offered by his neighborhood filling station, and what he looked 
for when he needed gas on the road; what kind of Scotch 
impressed him when he was offered it at a friend’s home; and 
why he had decided against switching from lather to an electric 
razor. Charlie inventoried every purchase he and his family had 
made for the past year, swiftly and without error. He recalled 
what TV programs he watched, what magazines he read and 
which of the thousands of commercials and advertisements 
they contained had affected any of the purchases. 

At that point Charlie discovered that he had done everything 
he was required to do just then. He made a quick parity check 
on his instructions. When it revealed no gross error or failure on 
his part, he announced that he was ready for his next task and 
waited in standby mode for orders. 

He waited what was for Charlie a very, very long time. All of 
this had taken Charlie a period measured only in fractions of a 
second. Now he rested, neither wondering nor moving, for a 
stimulus to further action. Without it he would do nothing, ever. 
He was not impatient. He knew what “patience” was in 
conceptual terms — he could relate it to his memory of himself 
waiting without “patience” for a traffic light to change but it 
did not occur to him to feel that way now. 

At 0901:30, give or take a few seconds, a young woman in a 
light gray dress, carrying a container of coffee, set the coffee 
down on her desk and seated herself before a large typewriter. 
She had heard the bell that announced Charlie was ready more 
than a minute before, but she was not quite ready for Charlie. 
She typed several rows of characters, checked them over, took 
a sip of her coffee and stood up. 


She glanced at the various lights and dials on Charlie’s front 
panel, saw nothing to cause concern. Her typewriter had 
produced not only the visible row of characters on the sheet of 
paper it held but, on a spool connected electrically to the keys, a 
strip of magnetic tape. She snipped a four-foot length of it free, 
taped it to another reel, rewound it and fed it into a scanning 
device. She removed the rubber band from a packet of 
perforated cards and dropped them into a hopper. 

Then she pressed a button. Rubber-tipped fingers dealt the 
cards into sorting bins where, one by one, they were taken up 
again and read, like the music roll of an old player piano. The 
tape reel slid past its scanning head on a cushion of air and 
disappeared. The time was 0901:55. 



Charlie began work — not at 0901:55, exactly, but at a time so 
near to it that the difference was measurable only in 
picoseconds. 

His first problem, he was informed, had to do with cigarette 
package designs. He waited while the cards on that subject 
were scanned. There were forty-one alternate designs, and they 
were presented to him in pairs. First he was offered Package 
One and Package Two simultaneously; he compared them, 
made a value judgment based on what he knew of his own 
buying habits and preferences and stated his preference. Then 
Package One and Package Three were offered to him, then 
Package One and Package Four, and so on until Package One 
had been compared with each of the others. Then he was 
offered Package Two with Package Three, Package Two with 
Package Four; and on and on until each prospective design on 
the list had been compared with each other. (There were 861 
combinations in all, taken two at a time.) 

At that point Charlie went into a sort of reverie while another 
part of his mind — it could have been called his “subconscious” 
— tabulated the results of his cross-pairing and established an 
order of preference. He wrote down, in order, the ten package 
designs he had most favored. He wrote it in the form of impulses 
recorded on a magnetic tape (this caused a reel by the desk of 
the girl in gray to spin rapidly for a moment, which she noticed 
out of the corner of her eye). Then he hummed for a moment, 
waiting for the card reader to allow him to begin his next task. 

Each of Charlie’s value decisions had taken him only about 
four nanoseconds, but the evaluation and read-out were much 
slower. It took him considerably longer to announce his results 
than to arrive at them, and so it was 0902:45 before he began his 
next job. 

The next assignment was to assess the merits of some 
proposed shaving-cream formulations. 


NOV-DEC 1 976 


61 

















































Here the task was considerably more difficult, for several 
reasons. The first part of his task was to rank his preferences 
among the fifty-five formulations as to their odors, textures and 
visual appearances, each in combination with the other. Charlie 
did not, in fact, realize quite how difficult it was, since he had no 
idea that he possessed neither smell nor vision, and touch only 
in the sense that certain of his members were capable of probing 
a card or tape for punched holes. He then had to evaluate some 
24 shapes and weights of pressure canisters in relation to each 
sort of lather. Here too, Charlie was unaware of his lacks. In fact 
he did not have thumb and fingers; the “grasp” and “weight” 
and “feel” of the canisters in his “hand” was in fact only a 
locating of certain binary statistics within the parameters of 
certain other quantities that were a part of his memory. In order 
for Charlie to be able to express an opinion on any of the 
matters on which his verdict was sought many subterfuges had 
been devised by the programmers on the staff of the advertising 
agency that owned Charlie. They materially prolonged the time 
for each comparison. However, he was in no way concerned by 
this. He did what he had always done. He did the task that was 
assigned to him, and when it was done he looked for, and did, 
the task that was next. 

In all of the hour and forty-odd minutes in which Charlie, 
husband of Harriet, father of Florence and Chuck, searched his 
responses to a wide range of offerings, he performed something 
over five thousand million separate operations, including parity 
checks and internal verifications. He faithfully reflected the 
customs and tastes of the average of a sample of some four 
million American males as they pertained to the purchase of 
tobacco, beer, gasoline, automotive accessories, soft drinks, 
airline tickets, motion-picture admissions, sporting goods, hi-fi 
equipment, toilet articles and power tools. When his final 
magnetic report was on the tape he signaled by ringing a bell. 
That was the end of Charlie’s working day. In a sense it was the 
end of his life. 

The girl in the light-gray dress was in the assistant division 
chief’s office when Charlie’s bell rang, and so she didn’t react at 
once. Charlie waited like a man on a benzedrine high, his mind 


clear and capable, but disengaged. It was nearly 1100 when the 
girl got back to her desk. 

She took the spool of tape that held all his opinions and 
threaded it into a printer, where it began typing out plain copy at 
a rate of 350 words a minute. She replaced it with a blank spool, 
consulted her work sheet and began to change Charlie with 
switch, with patch-cord and with dial. 

As she worked whole banks of memories dropped out of 
circuit. Chuck and Florence fell out of his personality without 
leaving a mark. His wife disappeared, his house, his car; the Los 
Angeles Dodgers went, with the Little League and the dunning 
letters from the bank. 

She then checked the programming sheet and, following its 
instructions, selected new personality ingredients for Charlie: 
an economic level, an age, a set of buying habits, a profile of 
interests. She began to charge Able Charlie with the sum of 
these habits and biases. He was not yet aware of what he was, 
since he had not yet received the command to learn himself. For 
that matter, he was no longer “he”. Now Able Charlie was a 
teen-age girl, her principal interests cosmetics, soft drinks, 
clothes, records and boys. 

When all the patches were complete and the new tapes were 
ready to roll, the girl in the gray dress double-checked, and 
pressed the “execute” button. Able Charlie, AC-770, began to 
take up his — her — its new life. 

The girl in the gray dress idly examined the polish on her nails. 
Her mind was not far from stand-by mode, either; until the first 
read-out came, or a trouble signal, she had nothing to do but 
wait for lunch. 

Inside the AC-77 Charlie, or Charlotte, was swiftly sniffing 
colognes whose fragrance was only the simulation of magnetic 
patterns on iron-oxide tape and comparing shades of lipstick 
whose colors were only a point on a hypothetical scale. The girl 
programmer was comparing colors, too. She wished idly that 
she had a friend to chat with — Rose Fink, after all? Or Catalina 
Coral? — but when she thought she heard a low contralto sigh 
she dismissed it at once. She knew that she was alone. 



62 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 

















Once upon an operating system, in a cassette on the 12-edge 
of the forest, there resided a binary decimal digit. She was 
counted by her REM statements whenever she went looping, 
and so she was labeled Little REM Writing Loop. 

One day, Little REM Writing Loop’s matrix called her from 
her subroutine. “Will you convey this disk pack to your nano¬ 
matrix?” she printed. “She is off-line, today, and I am processed 
about her. Her subsystem has been listing as of late, and I can 
only conclude that she is headed for third storage.” 

“Oh, to be positive, Matrix!” was Little REM Writing Loop’s 
voice-response; for she felt right justified whenever she looped 
down to her nano-matrix’s address. 

“Be deterministic as you thread your way through the forest,” 
her matrix warned in a Guarded Command. “There could be an 
optical scanner INFILE. If he monitors this disk pack, he will 
signal that your nano-matrix is an ALGOLic, when the truth is 
that she is bugged only by a post condition.” She structured 
Little REM Writing Loop’s parentheses over her Is. “You 
wouldn’t want that to be printed out, would you, Little REM 
Writing Loop?” 

“Oh, that wouldn’t mark-sense!” returned Little REM Writing 
Loop. “There are only AFLs in this disk pack!” 

“Then, BEGIN,” instructed her matrix. “I hope your 
character recognition is Greater than mine.” 

So Little REM Writing Loop SKIFped out into the forest along 
the outer loop. In spite of her matrix’s Implied Dos, she 
STOPped to pick some square roots in an address field along 
the slack path. “This isn’t a TAN function,” she theorized, “but 
there is an unambiguous array of hybrids here, and I shall gather 
them for my dear nano-matrix.” 

She was picking macro facsimiles when suddenly she 
encountered an invoice. “Why are you indexing out here among 
the trees, Little REM Writing Loop?” modulated the invoice. 

Little REM Writing Loop raised her (I)s. Dimensioned nearby 


was a blinking cursor! An optical scanner! A real negative 
number! Little REM Writing Loop’s intuition warned her against 
time-sharing with this syntactic character, but he was JOSSing. 
He couldn’t possibly have any logical design on her! 

“I’m looping to my nano-matrix’s threshold with this 8-bit disk 
pack,” she returned. “Nano-matrix is off-line, today.” 

“Oh,” replied the optical scanner. “Where does your nano¬ 
matrix reside?” 

“She resides in the discrete structure beside the 
CODASYL,” returned Little REM Writing Loop. 

Little REM Writing Loop segmented herself from the optical 
scanner and continued to her nano-matrix’s address. 

The blinking cursor waited till she had gone into her 
subroutine loop. Then, he SKIPped through the forest and soon 
arrived at the nano-matrix’s discrete structure. He drummed on 
the file. 

“Who is INFILE?” called Nano-matrix. 

“It’s Little REM Writing Loop,” returned the optical scanner 
with binary invoice. 

“Why, just punch the key and $ENTRY,” replied Nano¬ 
matrix. 

When Nano-matrix recognized the blinking cursor, she 
vectored and sequenced out of access. Through the network 
she listed, with the optical scanner on her track. 

Then, he STOPped. Instead of auditing her, he SEARCHed 
through her master file until he found Nano-matrix’s most 
exponential macro. He assumed it and hopped into Nano¬ 
matrix’s source deck. 

Soon, there came a magnetic drum at the file. 

“Who is INFILE?” called the optical scanner invoicing like 
Nano-matrix. 

“It’s Little REM Writing Loop, Nano-matrix,” replied Little 
REM Writing Loop. 

“Just punch the key and $ENTRY,” replied the blinking 


NOV DEC 1 976 


63 





















































cursor. 

Little REM Writing Loop OPENed the file and $ENTRYed 
into Nano-matrix’s structure. She STOPped, and her (I)s left 
their data base when she looked the optical scanner interface as 
he multiplexed in her nano-matrix’s source deck. 

“FORTRAN! WATFOR! Nano-matrix, what amBIGuous (I)s 
you have!” 

“The easier you are initialized, my dear,” returned the optical 
scanner. 

“And, Nano-matrix,” stated Little REM Writing Loop, ’’what 
three-dimensional antennae you have!” 

“The better to audit you with, my dear,” returned the blinking 
cursor ... 

“But, Nano-matrix,” declared Little REM Writing Loop, 
“what sharp brackets you have!” 

“The better to byte you with,” argued the optical scanner. 
And he LEAPed out of the source deck. 

Suddenly, there was a transfer of control. Little REM Writing 
Loop’s Nano-matrix came looping in, and with her, a member of 
the JCL. 


“There he is,” cried the nano-matrix, pointing to the optical 
scanner. 

The blinking cursor truncated his stochastic response when 
he spied the JCL. He indexed around Nano-matrix’s decision 
table and around her analog and took direct access to the outer 
loop with the JCL right behind him. The JCL loaded a disk 
cartridge and blanked the optical scanner with a laser beam. 

Little Rem Writing Loop backuped her Nano-matrix and 
helped her into her source deck, for Nano-matrix was at an odd 
parity, inplemented as she was by an advanced integer problem. 
“I have been out of SORT, in virtual storage lately,” she told 
Little REM Writing Loop, “but LET us sample the APLs.” 

So Little REM Writing Loop and her Nano-matrix sampled 
the APLs until the disk pack was empty and Nano-Matrix’s core 
storage was loaded. And they were never interpolated by the 
optical scanner again. 

“There is a Hierarchy than he,” declared Nano-matrix, “and 
everyone is right justified in the output.” 

ENDOFILE 



"Moonrise Over the City" by Kerry (Bit-Mangler) Jones 


64 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


























































































































COMPUTERS CAN ... 

A computer can do more work than 
a man. 

One reason that’s little known 
Is that it never has to stop 
To answer the telephone. 

A computer can do more work than 
a man. 

One more way to explain 
Is that it doesn’t stop it’s work 
To argue and complain. 

A computer can do more work than 
a man. 

Because it never takes 
Those dawdling, lengthy lapses 
That we call coffee breaks. 

A computer can do more work than 
a man. 

And it’s easy to see why. 

It doesn’t sit with its chin on its hand 
And watch the girls prance by. 

A computer can do more work than 
a man. 

One reason it’s such a whiz: 

It doesn’t buttonhole passersby 
To tell them how busy it is. 

A computer doesn’t take nervous pills 
All day at the water fountains, 

And wastes no time with molehills 
Making them into mountains. 

A computer can do more work than 
a man. 

Because, I have a hunch 
It doesn’t spend three hours 
With a customer at lunch. 

A computer can do more work than 
a man. 

And one good reason I’ve seen is 
It doesn’t spend the afternoon 
Half-conscious from martinis. 

A computer can do more work than 
a man. 

And partly it’s a matter 
Of not spending all day angling 
For the next job up the ladder. 

A computer can do more work than 
a man. 

Here’s a final explanation: 

It wastes no time on fears of being 
Replaced by Automation. 


A uthor unkno wn 


IMEW ELECTRONIC DESK 
CALCULATOR FROM CHINA 


KUNG CHANG 


T HE Great Wall 203, an advanced type of electronic desk calculator, 
was trial-produced early this year by a plant under the Institute 
of Mathematics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. It is 2.5 times 
as fast as similar calculators produced abroad, has twice the storage 
capacity and an expanded machine language. It is also slightly smaller 
and easier to operate than such models. 

The Great Wall 203 is of a type more advanced than ordinary 
electronic desk calculators. It has more functions, greater storage 
capacity, higher operating speed and under program control can auto¬ 
matically solve complex problems. Programs can be written, debugged 
and modified conveniently at the keyboard. Equipped with a printer 
and a magnetic tape unit, it is a complete, independent small computer 
system that performs some of the functions of a general-purpose elec¬ 
tronic digital computer. Its easier handling and maintenance make it 
suitable for wide popular use. 

Most of the people who designed and built the calculator are 
young mathematicians. Though they were unfamiliar with electronics 
and computing and their plant was poorly equipped, they drew en¬ 
couragement from Chairman Mao’s teaching, “The Chinese people have 
high aspirations, they have ability, and they will certainly catch up 
with and surpass advanced world levels in the not too distant 
future.” After studying a lot of material and critically assimilating 
the good points of foreign and domestic calculators, they boldly created 
a design in line with the characteristic of Chinese components. Making 
full use of collective wisdom, the whole plant made suggestions in the 
course of trial production. 

They designed and built this new advanced electronic desk cal¬ 
culator which uses integrated circuits in one year and five months. 
Now the Great Wall 203 is undergoing comprehensive testing to per¬ 
fect it for production and distribution. 



Testing the Great Wall 203. 


Reprinted from a recent issue of CHINA RECONSTRUCTS, Peking 


NOV DEC 1 976 


65 







COMPUTER GENERATED AIDS TO 
TEACHING GEOMETRIC CONCEPTS 


by 

Dr. Bruce H. Barnes 
and 

Frederick R. Stocker 
The Pennsylvania State University 


INTRODUCTION 

One of the most difficult tasks for any classroom 
instructor is to diagramatically illustrate mathematical and 
geometric concepts with a blackboard and chalk as the 
medium of description. Frequently accuracy gives way to 
hand waving, especially when the concepts involved are 
three-dimensional in nature or involve a high degree of 
mathematical accuracy in representation. That a picture is 
worth a thousand words or handwaves is as true in the 
classroom as anywhere else. One solution to this problem is 
to use the computer to supply a textbook base of programs 
which provide graphical output with a high degree of visual 
and mathematical accuracy. With static motion* or dynamic 
motion added, third (structural for example) and fourth 
(rotation in time for example) dimensional concepts can be 
made to stand out. This discussion offers some approaches 
to the use of computer graphics, as an answer to the black¬ 
board and chalk problem. The use of graphics in ele¬ 
mentary mathematics is presented by matrices and trans¬ 
formations, while Fourier Series is used as a representative 
of advanced mathematics. 

COMPUTER GRAPHICS 

A large diversity of hardware has been developed or 
used in support of graphic image presentation including 
cameras and film, overhead projectors, computer high¬ 
speed line printers, pen and ink plotters and cathode ray 
tube displays. Many techniques have been developed to 
present information for assimilation using devices such as 
those mentioned. Educational television makes good use of 
film. Computer assisted instruction uses some combina¬ 
tions of the above mentioned devices. Many college courses 
have made use of such devices to some extent. This discus¬ 
sion will center around the high speed line printers, pen and 
ink plotters and cathode ray tube devices as mediums of 
communication. 

Every computer installation has some type of line printer 
for output. These devices print lines of text on paper vary¬ 
ing from standard 8 V 2 by 11 "to large format computer print¬ 
out pages. If the printed lines are patterned or overstruck 
with several characters, then plots may be generated or 
geometric shapes approximated. Current devices in use 
typically output several hundred lines of characters per 
minute (with overprinting the number of actual lines comes 
down). Each page of output may be likened to a single frame 
of film hence enabling a sequence of pages to tell a story as 
is the case with a sequence of frames on film. The primary 
advantage to this medium of output is availability and cost. 
Also considerable software support programming has been 
done for such devices. 

Typical pen and ink plotters allow a pen to be moved over 
paper and if pressed to the paper a line results from the 
movement (called a draw), while if the pen is not pressed to 
the paper no line results on movement, (called a move). 
Thus, again, plots of geometric shapes may be generated. 


Likewise, several pages of plotter output may be put 
together to tell a story as indicated earlier. The principal 
advantage of such devices is accuracy of detail and large 
output format. Both the printers and the plotters described 
take time in the order of seconds to minutes to produce each 
plot. 

The CRT devices have a beam of electrons which maybe 
deflected at variable speed across the phosphor coating on 
a screen causing the phosphor to glow for a period of time 
again producing a picture or frame of output. A sequence of 
such pictures can again be used to tell a story. Once the 
phosphor is excited, if it continues to emit visable light for a 
period of minutes the scope employs what is known as a 
storage tube which holdsan imageonce drawn through use 
of a high persistance phosphor. If the image fades within a 
matter of microseconds then the tube utilized is a refresh 
tube and it employs a low persistance phosphor. Systems 
with storage tubes allow for viewing single frames in a 
sequence one at a time with a time delay between frames 
on the order of seconds to minutes depending o‘n the system 
employed. Such systems may be used to show static motion 
as defined earlier. Systems with refresh tubes typically 
employ more sophisticated hardware to support the rapid 
updating of information (in the form of pictures and text). 
Such systems are relatively expensive; however, due to the 
rapidity with which each picture can be drawn (typically 
1/40 second or less) and due to the interaction possible, 
dynamic motion may be employed and interactive tech¬ 
niques developed to allow the user to communicate with a 
program in real-time. For a discussion of Computer 
Graphics see Newman and Sproull (1). 

COMPUTER SYSTEM 

The line printer on which these pictures were developed 
is an IBM 1403 printer. The plotter on which these pictures 
were plotted is a Calcomp 564-30 inch incremental plotter. 
The interactive graphics system on which these programs 
were developed is an Adage Model 30 with 32768-30 bit 
words of core. (2) Control devices used include a joystick, 6 
variable control dials, alphanumeric keyboard, 18 function 
switches and foot-pedals. With this equipment the images 
are dynamically manipulable by both the instructor and the 
student. 

The programs and techniques discussed in this paper 
have been tested, implemented and are currently running 
as part of a computer graphics training program on the 
Pennsylvania State University Computation Center Adage 
Model 30. They form part of a computer graphics on-line 
text book base for the development of computer graphics 
geometric conceptualization as required by the Computer 
Science undergraduate course in graphics presented by 
Penn State. 

“Incremental motion where the increments taken show large changes in 
information or geometric orientation. 


66 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 















Figure 1 


NOV DEC 1 976 


67 


























































































They have been successfully used to supplement 9 lec¬ 
tures (one per week) per ten week term (Spring and Fall, 
1973 and Spring, 1974). The information was presented 
directly via the graphics system using the scope as a black¬ 
board and the instructor as the knowledgeable program¬ 
mer. This course is open to students from most programs in 
the University. 

It should be emphasized that with recent advances in 
computer hardware, and industry projection of further 
developmentsthe availability of interactive graphics units is 
rapidly on the rise. Storage tubes can now be purchased for 
under $4,000.00. Some mini-computers for programming 
support are in the one toten thousand dollar range. Refresh 
scopes are also becoming inexpensive and raster systems 
(TV like systems) are being employed for which the costs are 
within the $10,000 range per unit with mini-computers 
interfaced for support. These costs will continue to come 
down as the new miniturization technology, such as used in 
the new pocket calculators, advances. As this happens, 
more departmental requests for plotting support in terms of 
both hardware and software programming will be honored 
if need can be demonstrated. 

PROGRAMS FOR CONCEPT DEMONSTRATION 

The computer programs, MATRIX and SQWAV, are 
utilized in this paper to demonstrate the techniques under 
discussion. MATRIX demonstrates the geometric sig¬ 
nificance of matrices and vectors. SQWAV allows sine 
curve approximations to a square wave to be explored. The 
MATRIX program is intended to aid in developing under¬ 
standing at the geometric and analytical levels, thus 
enabling the instructor or student to develop mathematical 
comprehension. The SQWAV program illustrates a 
mechanism whereby detailed analysis for comprehension 
in an application may be developed. The MATRIX and 
SQWAV programs provide a variety of visual options to 
choose from thus freeing the instructor to select the 
concept area desired within the framework of the program 
being processed. Through the use of such programs, the 
comprehension of the student is readily tested and the 
development of new understanding as well as the correc¬ 
tion of weak areas can be accomplished by the instructor. In 
this manner we feel graphics is seen to be an important 
teaching aid to the classroom instructor and for the student. 

In Figure 1 the interactive scope, plotter and line printer 
are contrasted at the pictorial level to emphasize realizable 
aspects of the thoughts presented. The other figures illus¬ 
trate other concepts which could be viewed in a similar 
manner. 

MATRIX PROGRAM 

By selecting a transformation to be varied off a variable 
control dial or through a program input READ statement, 
such as rotation about the Z axis (in the XY plane), the vari¬ 
ation of vector and matrix equation entries may be 
monitored dynamically as illustrated in Figure 1. It should 
be noted that the X,Y-planar rotation submatrix varies but 
that all Z rotation elements remain unchanged. This allows 
the two dimensional transformation (rotation) to be 
observed within the larger context of the three-dimen¬ 
sional environment and also indicates the mathematical 
independence of the third dimension. In a similar manner, 
other rotations, translations and scaling may be studied as 
well as how they effect each other in combination. 

EFFECTS OF INDIVIDUAL MATRIX ENTRIES 

Another important aspect illustrated in the matrix pro¬ 
gram is the effect on an individual matrix element on a 
geometric transformation. Figure 2 presents sequences of 
pictures which illustrate the changing of the rotational 
matrix element in row 1, column 1 of the rotation array to 


affect scaling in X. The scaling range is illustrated from zero 
to full scale. Figure 3 illustrates the individual and 
combined effects of skewing in X, then Y and then both X 
and Y. The last picture of this sequence illustrates viewing 
such a skewing operation in 3-dimensions. Figure 4 indi¬ 
cates a precision coordinate grid available to check on the 
transformation accuracy from a visual standpoint, while 
figure 5 indicates how the various mathematical repre¬ 
sentations are selectable and comparable on the scope face 
as different transformational aspects are being monitored. 
The input and control tables may optionally be viewed as 
illustrated. Note that in all of the scope illustrations, the pri¬ 
mary value being monitored is shown at the bottom of the 
graphic image to three significant figures while the matrix 
items being monitored are shown only to two figures, thus 
illustrating the round off in effect on the system. 

SQUARE WAVE PROGRAM 

The blackboard problem is very pronounced in teaching 
Fourier Series. With simple sketching the instructor can 
illustrate how the terms are summed and possibly con¬ 
vince the student that the series will converge. The 
accuracy and speed of computer graphics, however, allow 
the instructor to illustrate more concepts convincingly. On a 
cathode ray tube one can watch the series converging and 
gain some meaningful insight into the rapidity of con¬ 
vergence. The Gibb's phenomenon which is almost 
impossible to sketch with any accuracy or to even convince 
the students that it exists, is beautifully illustrated (note 
Figure 6). That is one reason for using the split screen to 
show Gibb's phenomenon along with the next term to be 
added and the sum of the first terms of the series. The 
computer output can be used by each individual student or 
they can be used as visual aids for the instructor. Both tech¬ 
niques have been used by Mathematics Professors in 
teaching the Course Fourier Series and Partial Differential 
Equations to establish understanding which cannot be 
gained from the usual classroom exercises. 

CONCLUSION 

Through the transformation matrix and square wave 
examples we have indicated how programs at both the 
structure and application levels can be used to produce a 
symbiotic affect between theory and applications where the 
student develops understanding in both areas 
simultaneously. Programs such as this are intended to 
provide the knowledgeable instructor with a source of 
mathematical and geometrical information which makes 
available for selection different representations of the same 
concepts. A collection of such programs provides an inter¬ 
active textbook-like data base for teaching fundamental 
concepts in an area, in this case two andthreedimensional 
transformations contrasting mathematical models with 
both matrix and geometric representations. Sequences of 
output as shown in the figures can be obtained from the 
computer with the student supplying the input sequence for 
control of an entry in the matrices or an axis or axies about 
which the rotation is to be observed. The sequential output 
of pictures will then tell the story. Preferred sequences of 
values may be selected to develop course material of an in¬ 
structor's own choosing for classroom work. In the case of 
an interactive system both the knowledgeable instructor 
and the novice student may dynamically manipulate the 
geometric imagery and/or the matrix entries to study the 
effects of modifying either the geometric structure or the 
analytical mathematical model which corresponds to the 
geometric image. In this manner the student develops a 
visual geometric understanding of the analytic model as 
well as an analytical understanding of the geometric struc¬ 
tures and transformations. 

Thus computer graphics can be used as a valuable 


68 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 








teaching aid at either the classroom level, the individual (1 
to 1) confrontation level, or at the level where the student 
seeks information through direct program interaction. With 
a little imagination, such techniques as these can be im¬ 
plemented using any available high speed printers or 
plotters for output. 

It should be noted that programs, such as those illus¬ 
trated herein, make excellent student programming proj¬ 
ects. They allow the use of as much programming skill and 
imagination as the student is capable of, because any proj¬ 
ect of this type isopen ended and can growfrom very simple 
to quite complex. The end results of a project are useful, giv¬ 
ing the student a sense of accomplishment in not doing just 
another exercise. 


REFERENCES 

(1) William M. Newman and Robert F. Sprou II, Principles of Interactive Com¬ 
puter Graphics. McGraw Hill, 1973 

(2) Adage Fortran Programming System, Adage, Inc., 1079 Commonwealth 
Avenue, Boston, Mass. 1972 


k 

ItJftije’H 


Fluctuation of attention Illusion 
Gaze steadily and will change from white design on black 
background to black design on white background. 




Figure 2 


NOV DEC 1 976 


69 

























Figure 3 

































NOV DEC 1976 


71 


Figure 

















CM APS: A Basic Language Program 
for Choropleth Mapping 

James W. Cerny 
University of New Hampshire 


The best synonym for the cartographer's term 
"choropleth map" would be "shading-by-area map". This is 
the familiar type of map in which there is a single data 
value for each observation area (state, county, census tract, 
etc.). Typically this involves arraying our data in ascending 
order so we can classify it into data classes or intervals, with 
a different shading symbol assigned to each data class. The 
map is constructed by taking each data value, looking up 
the appropriate data class, and shading the area with the 
associated shading symbol for that data class. It is a 
conservative mapping technique, because we assume the 
data values apply uniformly throughout each observation 
area, making no inferences about gradients. A general 
introduction to this and other types of mapping can be 
found in Robinson and Sale (1969). 

M. W. Scripter (1969) devised a Fortran computer 
program for choropleth mapping on computers with limited 
storage. Since then, many Fortran versions of his program 
have been produced (Caspall and Jozwiak, 1973; Whitmore, 
1972). Listed and discussed below, however, is CM APS, a 
Basic-language version of Scripter's program designed for 
interactive computing on a terminal. The program, as 
presented, is only of moderate length and complexity and 
many embellishments are possible. 

Fundamental to computer mapping is some method of 
coding information to describe the base area to be mapped. 
CMAPS uses a scan-line technique as follows. First, you 
must select a base map of a suitable scale. The areas on this 
base map will be approximated using the print symbols 
available on the terminal. Since most terminals print (or 
display) 10 characters per inch horizontally and 6 
characters per inch vertically, you should overlay the base 
map with a 6 x 10 to the inch grid. Each row in this grid 
will be one row in the printed map. Obviously very small 
areas will be difficult to represent without a map of 
sufficiently large scale. Each row will be composed of 
segments, one segment representing a slice of a map area or 
the background surrounding the map. Map areas should be 
numbered in an arbitrary but consistent manner, either 
from top to bottom or from an alphabetical list of the 
areas. The background is assigned the number N+1, where 
N is the number of map areas. Each segment requires two 
pieces of information to describe it to the CMAPS program: 
the number of the map area it represents and the rightmost 
grid cell (print position) it occupies in that scan-line row. A 
whole scan-line data file is thus constructed for each base 
area that will be mapped. Each scan-line in that file consists 
of the number of segments in that line and then, in pairs, 
the segment number and rightmost print position. The 
leftmost print positions are deduced by CMAPS. You 
should also realize that to change the size of the printed 
map requires construction of a new scan-file. 

The version of CMAPS listed here (Figure 1) allows an 
unlimited number of scan-lines or length of the map, up to 
20 map areas (not counting background), up to 20 data 
classes, and will produce a map up to 72 characters wide. 
Before running CMAPS a scan-line file as described above 
must have been created. Then the program asks for a map 
title, map parameters, data class limits, print symbols for 
the data classes, and the data itself. In the sample run 
shown (Figure 2), a scan-line file of New Hampshire was 
used that was 50 scan-lines long, 45 columns wide, and 
composed of 10 map areas or counties (Figure 3). The data 


mapped were the percentage of the 1970 population in 
each county that was either first or second generation 
Canadian. The county order for numbering in the scan 
deck, from 1 through 10, was Coos, Grafton, Carroll, 
Belknap, Sullivan, Merrimack, Strafford, Rockingham, 
Cheshire, and Hillsborough. The program operates as 
follows. It classifies the data according to the data values 
and class limits read in. If a value is on the border between 
two classes, it is assigned to the lower data class. Then 
CMAPS begins a loop, reading information from the scan 
file one line at a time. It never stores more than one line of 
the map at a time. It reads how many segments there are 
for that line, and for each segment reads which map area 
that is, deduces which contiguous print positions belong to 
that segment, computes which map symbol should be 
associated with the segment on the basis of the data 
classification already done, proceeding until it has 
composed a whole line, which is then printed. 

In the sample run (Figure 2) the highest values are in the 
northernmost county (Coos) and in the counties where 
there was the greatest industrialization in the nineteenth 
century. Most of the people of Canadian origin in New 
Hampshire are of French background, drawn to the 
prospect of work in the mills and factories when a different 
economic situation existed. Note that an attempt has been 
made to use darker shading for higher values or percentages. 
A different map classification might show more or less 
detail to the pattern. 

In our implementation of CMAPS, we use a separate 
program to print an explanatory description of CMAPS and 
choropleth mapping, but such information could be 
incorporated directly in the CMAPS program. We also have 
a little utility program called SCANMAKE (Figure 4) to 
facilitate the construction of scan files by people who are 
novices. CMAPS could be made more retentive, storing 
shading and data values so that users would only have to 
supply new data class limits to experiment in the mapping 
of a set of data. At the risk of greatly enlarging memory 
requirements, the scan-file information could be read in and 
stored in an array, or it could be stored in data statements. 
In making modifications perhaps two things should be kept 
in mind. People are not likely to seek finished quality maps 
from CMAPS, but it can be very useful for working maps 
and quick proofing of data classifications. It is time 
consuming to print large numbers of maps on the same base 
at a terminal and perhaps that type of production work is 
better done in a batch environment. 

References 

Caspall, F. C., and Jozwiak, L. 1973. "CORMAP: A 
Choroplethic Mapping Routine," Technical Report No. 
1, Institute for Regional, Rural, and Community 
Studies, Western Illinois University. 

Robinson, A., and Sale, R. 1969. Elements of Cartography f 
3rd ed. New York: Wiley & Sons. 

Scripter, M. W. 1969. "Choropleth Maps on Small Digital 
Computers," Proceedings , Association of American 
Geographers, v. 1, 133—136. 

Whitmore, S. E. 1972. "INMAP: A Computer-Aided 
Instruction Program for Teaching Class-Interval Selec¬ 
tion," pp. 39—42 in Proceedings , Conference on 
Computer Applications in Geography, 12—14 October 
1972, Department of Geography, SUNY at Albany. 


72 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 







100 REM CMAPS . . . CH0R0PLETH MAPPING PROGRAM. 

110 REM JAMES » T . CERNY, MARCH 1975. 

120 REM REFERENCES: (1) SCRIPTER, M.V.1969. "CHOROPLETH MAPS ON 
130 REM SMALL DIGITAL COMPUTERS," PROCEEDINGS, ASSOCIATION OF 
140 REM AMERICAN GEOGRAPHERS, V. |, 133-136. (2) CASPALL, F.C. AND 
150 REM JOZ'UAK, L. 1973. "CORMAP: A CHOROPLETHIC MAPPING ROUTINE," 
160 REM TECHNICAL REPORT NO. 1, INSTITUTE FOR REGIONAL, RURAL, AND 
170 REM COMMUNITY STUDIES, |T E STERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY. 

180 DIM A< 72>,B(72),CS C22 ) ,D C20 ) , E5 ( 72 > ,U (2 1 ),X(20) 

190 PRINT "PROGRAM CMAPS MAKES CHOROPLETH MAPS. SEE **CMAPSDOC." 
200 PRINT 

210 PRINT "ENTER THE MAP TITLE (UP TO 18 CHARS)." 

220 INPUT Ft 

230 PRINT "ENTER THE NO. OF CLASSES, AREAS, SCAN LINES," 

240 PRINT "AMD MAP VIDTH IN COLUMNS." 

250 INPUT N1,N2,M3,L 
260 N4*N1+1 

270 PRINT "ENTER THE LOVER LIMIT FOR THE FIRST CLASS AND," 

280 PRINT "IM ORDER, THE UPPER LIMIT FOR EACH CLASS." 

290 MAT INPUT V(N4) 

300 U(N4)=U<N4 >*.00001+U(N4 ) 

310 REM ASSIGN BACKGROUND AND OUT-OF-RANGE SYMBOLS. 

320 C$(N1+1 )= * . • 

330 CS(N1+2 ) =’R * 

340 PRINT "ENTER A PRINT SYMBOL FOR EACH CLASS, ONE AT A TIME," 

350 PRINT "IN ORDER. THE SYMBOLS AND *R» ARE RESERVED." 

360 FOR M=1 TO Ml 

3 70 INPUT C$ CM) 

380 NEXT M 

390 PRINT "ENTER THE DATA TO BE MAPPED, ONE VALUE FOR EACH" 

400 PRINT "MAP AREA. THE ORDER MUST MATCH SCAN DECK NUMBERING." 

410 MAT INPUT X(N2) 

420 PRINT "VHAT IS THE NAME OF YOUR SCAN-LINE FILE?" 

430 INPUT G$ 

440 OPEN 1,GS,INPUT 

450 REM CLASSIFY MAP AREAS ACCORDING TO DATA VALUES. 

460 D(N2 +1)=N4 

470 FOR M=1 TO N2 

480 IF XCMX U(l) THEN 530 

4 90 FOR N=2 TO N4 
500 Q =N-1 

510 IF U<N> > X(M) THEN 540 

520 NEXT N 

530 Q=Nl+2 

540 D(M)=Q 

550 NEXT M 

560 REM BEGIN SEQUENCE TO COMPOSE AND PRINT MAP LINES. 

570 FOR N* 1 TO 5 

580 PRINT 

590 NEXT N 

600 PRINT FS 

610 PRINT 

620 FOR M=1 TO Nl 

630 print "ClaS5";m;"SYmbol ";c$cm>;" limits";u<m>;"TO";u(m+i> 

640 NEXT M 

650 PRINT 

660 PRINT 

670 FOR M=1 TO N3 

680 REM FE T CH NO. SEGMENTS PER LINE, THEN BY PAIRS, 

690 REM AREA NO. AND RIGHMOST PRINT POSITION FOR EACH. 

700 GET 1: PI 
710 FOR N=1 TO PI 
720 GET 1: A(N),B(N> 

730 NEXT N 
740 11=0 

750 FOR N=1 TO PI 
760 12=11+1 
770 I 1= 3(M) 

780 K=A(N) 

790 K=D(K) 

800 FOR J=12 TO II 
810 E$(J)=C$(K) 

820 NEXT J 
830 NEXT N 

840 IF Il>= L THEN 890 
850 12=11+1 
860 FOR J=12 TO L 
870 ES(J)=Ct(N4) 

880 NEXT J 
890 LI=L-1 
900 FOR N=1 TO LI 
910 PRINT E$CN>; 

920 NEXT N 
930 PRINT ES(L> 

940 NEXT M 

950 REM END COMPOSE AND PRINT SEQUENCE. 

960 CLOSE 1 
970 FOR N=1 TO 5 
980 PRINT 
990 NEXT M 

1000 PRINT "DO YOU v A NT TO MAKE ANOTHER MAP (YES OR NO)?" 

1010 INPUT At 
1020 IF AS= *YES * THEN 210 
1030 STOP 
1040 END 


Figure 1. Program CMAPS Listing. 


OROGRAM CMAPS MAKES CHOROPLETH MAPS. SEE **CMAPSDOC. 

EN T ER THE MAP TITLE (VP TO 18 CHARS). 

7RCT 1£2 CANADIAN 

ENTER THE NO. OF CLASSES, AREAS, SCAN LINES, 

AND MAP T 'ID‘ r H IN COLUMNS. 

?3,10,50,45 

ENTER THE LOi*ER LIMIT FOR THE FIRST CLASS AND, 

IN ORDER, THE UPPER LIMIT FOR EACH CLASS. 

?0,10,20,35 


EN T ER A PRINT SYMBOL FOR EACH CLASS, ONE AT A TIME, 
IN ORDER. THE SYMBOLS * AND ’R* ARE RESERVED. 

?0 

?X 

?# 

ENTER t HE DATA TO BE MAPPED, ONE VALUE FOR EACH 
MAP AREA. THE ORDER MUST MATCH SCAN DECK NUMBERING. 
?30.7,9.6,7.3,12.8,12.0,10.5,12.4,8.7,7.7,17.1 


VHAT IS THE NAME OF YOUR SCAN-LINE FILE? 
7NHSCAM 


Figure 2. Sample CMAPS Run. 


PCT 142 CANADIAN 

CLASS 1 SYMBOL 0 LIMITS 0 TO 10 

CLASS 2 SYMBOL X LIMITS 10 TO 20 

CLASS 3 SYMBOL # LIMITS 20 TO 35.0003 


...##...# 

.######## 

.######## 

######### 


. ########## . 

. ########### . 

.############. 

.#############. 

.#############. 

. ############ . 

. ########### . 

. ############ . 

...#############. 

. ############## . 

... 

. 000000 ##############. 

.0000000000#### ########0.. 

.0000000000000####000000. 

. 000000000000000#0000000 . 

.00000000000000000000000. 

.000000000000000000000000. 

.000000000000000000000000. 

. 0000000000000000000000000 . 

. 00000000000000000000000000 . 

. 00000000000000000000000000 . 

. 000000000000000000000000000 . 

.oooooooooooooooooxxoooooooooo. 

.oooooooooooooooxxxxxxoooooooo. 

.oooooooooooooooxxxxxxxxooooooo. 

.xxxxxxo 0000 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxo 000 . 

.xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx. 

.xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx. 

.xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx. 

.XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX. 

.XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX.... 

. v xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxoooxxxxxxxx... 

.xoooooxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxoooooxxxxxx... 

.ooooooooo xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxo 00000 xxxxxo 0 .. 

.oooooooooxxxxxxxxxxxxxxooooooooooooooo. 

.ooooooooooxxxxxxxxxxxxxxooooooooooooooo. 

....oooooooooooxxxxxxxxxxxxxooooooooooooooo.. 

...oooooooooooooxxxxxxxxxxxxoooooooooooo. 

....ooooooooooooxxxxxxxxxxxxxoooooo. 

.ooooooooooooxxxxxxxxxxxxxxooo. 

.ooooooooooooxxxxxxxxxxxxxx. 


DO Y0 Tf VANT TO MAKE ANOTHER MAP (YES OR NO)? 
°N0 


NOV DEC 1 976 


73 





























































































L IME 

MO . 1 


1 

1 1 

AS 







LIME 

MO . 7 


1 

1 1 

AS 

1 Fi ? - 

ure 3. 

NHSCAN 

File. 



LIME 

MO. 3 


s 

1 1 

30 

1 

32 

1 1 

35 

l 

36 

1 1 

AS 











LIME 

MO. A 


3 

1 1 

28 

l 

36 

1 1 

A5 



LIME 

NO. 5 


3 

1 1 

28 

1 

36 

1 1 

A5 



LPT 

MO. 6 


3 

1 1 

27 

1 

36 

1 1 

A5 



L IME 

MO. 7 


3 

1 1 

27 

1 

36 

1 1 

A5 



LIME 

MO. 8 


3 

1 1 

26 

1 

36 

1 1 

A5 



LIME 

MO. 9 


3 

1 1 

26 

1 

36 

1 1 

A5 



LIME 

MO. 10 


3 

1 1 

26 

1 

37 

1 1 

A 5 



LIME 

MO. 11 


3 

1 1 

25 

1 

37 

1 1 

A 5 



L I M E 

MO. 1 2 


3 

1 1 

2A 

1 

37 

1 1 

A5 



LIME 

MO. 13 


3 

1 1 

2A 

1 

37 

1 1 

A5 



LIME 

MO. 1A 


3 

1 1 

25 

1 

37 

1 1 

A5 



LIME 

MO. 15 


3 

1 1 

26 

1 

37 

1 1 

A 5 



LIME 

MO. 16 


3 

1 1 

25 

1 

37 

1 1 

A 5 



LIME 

NO . 1 t 


3 

1 1 

2A 

1 

37 

1 1 

A5 



L IME 

MO. 18 


3 

1 1 

23 

1 

3 7 

1 1 

A5 



LIME 

MO. 19 


A 

1 1 

20 

2 

22 

1 

37 

1 l 

A5 

LIME 

mo. 20 


A 

1 1 

1 7 

0 

23 

1 

37 

1 1 

A5 

LI^E 

MO. PI 


S 

1 I 

1 S 

2 

25 

1 

37 

3 

38 

1 1 

AS 











L IME 

MO. ?2 


5 

1 1 

15 

7 

28 

1 

32 

3 

38 

1 1 

AS 











LP’E 

mo. 23 


6 

1 1 

15 

2 

29 

3 

30 

1 

31 

3 

3 p 

1 1 

AS 









L I M Z 

MO. 2 A 


A 

1 1 

IS 

2 

29 

3 

38 

1 1 

A 5 

LIME 

mo. 26 


A 

1 1 

1 A 

0 

30 

3 

38 

1 1 

A 5 

L IME 

MO. 2* 


A 

1 1 

1 A 

2 

30 

3 

33 

1 1 

A5 

LIME 

MO. ?*> 


A 

1 1 

13 

2 

30 

3 

35 

1 1 

A5 

LIME 

MO. 28 


A 

1 1 

1 2 

2 

26 

3 

33 

1 1 

A 5 

LIME 

MO. 29 


A 

1 1 

12 

7 

26 

3 

33 

1 1 

A 5 

LP’E 

MO. 30 


A 

1 1 

1 1 

2 

26 

3 

33 

1 1 

A 5 

LI M E 

MO. 31 


S 

1 1 

9 

2 

26 

A 

23 

3 

38 

1 I 

AS 











L IME 

MO. 37 


s 

1 1 

9 

2 

2A 

A 

3D 

3 

33 

1 1 

A5 











LIME 

MO. 3 3 


5 

1 1 

S 

2 

23 

A 

31 

3 

38 

1 1 

AS 











I. IMF. 

MO. 3A 


8 

1 1 

7 

S 

13 

2 

1 8 

6 

22 

A 

3 A 

7 

35 

3 

39 

1 1 

AS 





LI M E 

mo. 3^ 


6 

1 1 

7 

s 

1 7 

6 

23 

A 

33 

*» 

30 

1 1 

AS 









L IME 

MO. 3 6 


6 

1 1 

7 

s 

1 S 

6 

27 

A 

3A 

7 

39 

1 1 

AS 









LIME 

MO. 37 


6 

1 1 

7 

5 

1 A 

6 

29 

A 

3 A 

7 

39 

1 1 

AS 









LIME 

MO. 2 3 


6 

1 1 

7 

S 

1A 

6 

31 

A 

33 

7 

AO 

1 1 

AS 









LIME 

MO. 3 9 


5 

1 1 

6 

5 

1 A 

6 

33 

7 

A 1 

1 1 

AS 











LIME 

0 

c 


6 

1 1 

6 

5 

15 

6 

31 

8 

3A 

7 

A2 

1 1 

AS 









LIME 

MO. A 1 


9 

1 1 

6 

5 

7 

9 

12 

5 

15 

10 

18 

6 

31 

8 

36 

7 

A2 

1 1 

A5 



LINE 

MO. A 2 


8 

1 1 

6 

9 

15 

10 

23 

6 

30 

8 

36 

7 

A 1 

8 

A3 

1 1 

A5 





LIME 

mo. A3 


6 

1 1 

6 

9 

15 

10 

27 

6 

29 

Q 

A A 

1 1 

A5 









LIME 

MO. AA 


5 

1 1 

5 

9 

15 

10 

29 

8 

AA 

1 1 

AS 











LIME 

MO. AS 


6 

1 1 

A 

9 

15 

10 

28 

8 

A3 

1 1 

AS 











LIME 

MO. A 6 


5 

1 1 

3 

9 

16 

10 

28 

8 

AO 

1 1 

AS 











LIME 

MO . A T 


6 

1 1 

A 

9 

16 

10 

29 

3 

35 

1 1 

AS 











LIME 

MO. AS 


S 

1 1 

S 

9 

1 7 

10 

31 

8 

3 A 

1 1 

AS 











LPT 

MO. A 9 


A 

I 1 

6 

9 

18 

10 

32 

1 1 

A 5 

LIME 

MO. SO 


1 

1 1 

AS 








100 ">E W ORHGPAM * r 0 PREPARE SCAM-LINE FILES. 

110 REM JA M E e CERMY, AP7.IL 1 975. 

120 *>RIMT "PROGRAM TO PREPARE SCAN-LIME FILES. SEE **CMAPSD0C." 
130 PRI MT # 

1 A0 DIM E<S0) 

150 DO IM' p " FILE MAME*>" 

160 INP"T A$ 

l-TQ oockj 1 / A?/0”T c '’^ 

180 o°!»r 

1 90 K=0 

200 °E IMT "ME 1 ’ R0 1f . EMTEP MO. SECS. ZERO TO STOP." 

210 IM° M T A 

220 IF A=0 them 300 

230 K=K+1 

2AO OTT T 1 : A 

250 M=A*2 

260 °PIM T "ENTER SEGMEM"* PAI oc : AREA MO., RIGHT PRINT PCS." 

270 MAT INP"T B(M) 

280 MA T P Tf T 1 : 3 
290 GO to 200 
300 CLOSE 1 
310 G n EN 1,A$,IMPMT 
320 FOR M=1 TO K 
330 GET 1: A 
3AO °RINT a; 

350 M=A*2 

3 60 MAT GET 1: 9 CM) 

370 MAT PRimt D 
3 80 MEX* r M 
390 STOP 
A 00 END 


Figure 4. Program SCANMAKE. 


XXX XXX XX 


XX XX xxxx 


/XXXX 
XXXXXX XX 
XX X XX 


XXXXX XX 


XXX*X> 

XXXXX) 

XXXXX) 

xxxx 


>.XXY< XXXXX* <XX»XXXXX> XXXXX>XaXXXaXXX>.XXXXXXXXXXXX XX XX X> XXXXX) XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX 
XX XX XX XX 

XX XX XX XX 


aXXXXXXXXX 

xxxxx>xxxxxxxx 
XX XXX xxxx 


( X XX 
XX xxxx 
XX xxxx 

XXXXX XXX 
X XX XX XXX 
XX)XXXXX 
xxxxxxxxx 
xxxxxxxxxx 
xxxxxxxxxk 
XX) xxxxxxx 
t xxxxxxxx>x 

( XXXXXXXX X 
( XXXXXXxX X 

t x>xxxxx xxx 

X XXXXXXX X XXX 
X XXXXXX XXXXX 

xx xxxxx xx x; 

x x> x : 


xxxxx 

XXXXXXXX 
XXXXXX)X 
XXXXX xxx 
XXXXXX 


XXXX 

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX) 

XXXXXX 


XX 

XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXX>XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX 

XX XX XXXX XXXXXXXX XXX XX XX 

XX XX xxxxxxx xxx XXX XX XX 

XX XX XXXXX XX XX 

XXXX XXXX 

/XXXX XXXX XXXXXXX) XX XX XXXX XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX XX XXX (XXXX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX 


< XX XX XXXXXX 
! XX >X XXXXXX 
XX XX X) 
XXXXXX XXXXX 
XXXXXX xxxxx 
XXXXXX xxxxx 
XX XX XX 


XXXXXX 

XXXXXX 

XXXXXX 


xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx 
XXXXXX xxxxxx xxxxxx 
xxxxxx x/xrxx xxxxxx 


74 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 























Creative Programming Techniques... 



Most programming texts present the problem of 
writing one or two basic types of sort programs. Are 
these generally used in production? Usually not. One 
of the most efficient production sort algorithms is 
known as Heapsort. In the richly commented BASIC 
program below, Geoffrey Chase, OSB, of the Ports¬ 
mouth Abbey School has written a Heapsort routine 
for both character string or numeric sorting. Look it 
over. Study how it works. And when you want a real¬ 
ly efficient sort routine, use it! 

NOTES: 

<1) EVIDENTLY THIS CAN BE SPLIT INTO TWO PROGRAMS; OR YOU 
CAN CUT OUT THE UNNEEDED HALF. 

(2) LINE 120 CAN BE DIMENSIONED AS DESIRED. 

(3) THE ! "TAG” COMMENTS AREN’T NEEDED. SOME BASICS 

ALLOW ! * SOME ALLOW » INSTEAD* SOME NEITHER. 


THEN 480 
THEN 140 


100 REM. KNUTH/WILLI AMS/FLOYD 

110 ! PAS *74 

120 DIM N(150)* CSC 150) 

130 PRINT 
135 PRINT 
140 PRINT 

145 PRINT "TYPE C 
150 PRINT "TYPE N 
155 INPUT W$ 

160 N=0 
163 PRINT 
166 PRINT 
170 IF W$="N* 

180 IF W$<>"C' 

190 j- 

200 GOSUB 720 
210 INPUT SS 
215 PRINT 
220 

230 N =N+1 

235 INPUT CSCN) 

240 IF CS(N)<>S$ THEN 230 
250 

260 N=N-1 
265 PRINT 
270 

280 L=INT(N/2)+1 
285 N 1 =N 

290 IF L=l THEN 310 
300 L=L-1 
303 A$=CS(L) 

306 GOTO 350 
310 A$=CSCN1) 

315 CSCNl>=CS(1) 

320 N1=N1-1 

330 IF N1=1 THEN 440 

340 

350 J=L 
360 I=J 
365 J=2*J 

370 IF J=N1 THEN 400 

380 IF J>N1 THEN 420 

390 IF CSCJ)>=C$<J+l) THEN 400 

395 J=J+1 

400 IF AS>=CSCJ) THEN 420 
410 CSC I)=C$CJ) 

415 GOTO 360 
420 CSCD-AS 
425 GOTO 290 
430 

440 CSC 1)=AS 
450 FOR 1=1 TO N 
453 PRINT CSC I) 

456 NEXT I 
460 GOTO 130 

470 !- 

480 GOSUB 720 
483 INPUT S 
486 PRINT 
490 N=N+1 
493 INPUT NCN) 

496 IF NCN)<>S THEN 490 
500 N=N-1 
505 PRINT 
510 ! 


HEAPSORT ALGORITHM. 


FOR CHARACTER STRING SORT** 
FOR NUMBER SORT. "1 


! FANCY "IF" 


SYNTAX. COMPARE 
390-400. 


520 L=INT(N/2)+l 
525 N1=N 

530 IF L=1 THEN 550 
540 L=L-1 
543 A=NCL) 

546 GOTO 590 
550 A=NCN1) 

555 NCN1)=NC1) 

560 N1=N1-1 
570 IF N1=1 THEN 680 
580 ! 

590 J=L 
600 I=J 
605 J=2*J 

610 IF J=N1 THEN 640 
620 IF J>N1 THEN 660 
630 IF NCJXNCJ+l) THEN J=J+1 
640 IF A>NCJ) THEN 660 
650 NCIXNCJ) 

655 GOTO 600 
660 NCI)=A 
665 GOTO 530 
670 ! 

680 NC1)=A 

690 FOR 1=1 TO N 

693 PRINT NCI) 

696 NEXT I 
700 GOTO 130 

7 10 !-- SUBROUTINE: -- 

720 PRINT "PLEASE INDICATE A STOP CODE--SOMETHING NOT IN YOUR" 
730 PRINT "LIST* WHICH WILL ACT AS AN * END-OF-LIST* SIGNAL: ”* 
740 RETURN 
750 ! 

760 END 

TYPE C FOR CHARACTER STRING SORT* 

TYPE N FOR NUMBER SORT. ? C 


PLEASE INDICATE A STOP CODE--SOMETHING NOT IN YOUR 
LIST* WHICH WILL ACT AS AN 'END-OF-LIST* SIGNAL: ? KNUTH 


! START C0UNT=N AT 0 


! BAD REPLY 

c CHARACTER SORT: > —- 
! ASK FOR STOP CODE 
f GET STOP CODE 

! INPUT LOOP: 


! END OF INPUT... 


» HEAPSORT PROPER: 


! PRESERVE N* USE N1 


! MOVE TOP OF HEAP TO END 
! HEAP IS 1 SMALLER NOW 
! ONLY ONE LEFT? THEN WEfRE DONE. 
! NO* CONTINUE 


! LOOK FOR "SONS" OF I 


! "Nl" IS SIZE OF ACTIVE LIST 
! CHOOSE LARGER "SON" 


! LARGER SON REPLACES PARENT 


! END Or SORT.. 


! OR REVERSE ORDER: I=N TO 1 STEP -1 


< NUMERIC SORT: >- 


DAVID AHL* ESQ. 
COSMO COMPUTERS 
ABPLANALP LTD. 
PETRODOLLARS 
DMA TRANSFER 
CREATIVE COMP. 
M.O.S. ABACUS 
ALGORITHMS 
LEONARDO P. 
CHINESE REMS. 
SORTED STRINGS 
NEG. FULLBACK 
STAR TREK* V.2 
KNUTH 


ABPLANALP LTD. 
ALGORITHMS 
CHINESE REMS. 
COSMO COMPUTERS 
CREATIVE COMP. 
DAVID AHL 
DMA TRANSFER 
LEONARDO P. 
M.O.S. ABACUS 
NEG. FULLBACK 
PETRODOLLARS 
SORTED STRINGS 
STAR TREK 


TYPE C FOR CHARACTER STRING SORT* 
TYPE N FOR NUMBER SORT. ? N 


PLEASE INDICATE A STOP CODE--SOMETHING NOT IN YOUR 
LIST* WHICH WILL ACT AS AN ’END-OF-LIST* SIGNAL: ? -1E6 

? 3.1416 
? 22222 
? 2E10 
? 2E-10 
? 66.666 
? -1E5 
? -1E6 


-1 

2•00000E-10 
3. 1416 
66.666 
22222 

2•00000E+10 


TYPE C FOR CHARACTER STRING SORT* 
TYPE N FOR NUMBER SORT. ? 

STOP AT LINE 155 
READY 


NOV-DEC 1 976 


75 










A Comparison of Sorts 

John P. Grillo 

Dept, of Computer Information Systems 
West Texas State University 
Canyon, Texas 7901 6 


When students in programming courses compare 
notes, they find that there is a fairly small set of 
computer problems which are given as programming 
assignments in practically all courses. Here is a sam¬ 
pling of these Golden Oldies. The Indian Problem: If 
the Indians had deposited the $24 they got for Man¬ 
hattan Island in 1620 and earned 6% interest com¬ 
pounded yearly, what would that deposit be worth 
now? Fibonacci Numbers: What is the largest Fibo¬ 
nacci number less than a given number? Grain of 
Wheat, or Doubled Penny: Starting with one grain of 
wheat, or one penny, and doubling the number every 
day, how many whatevers are there on the 30th (64th) 
day? Table Printing: Produce as output a table of the 
[squares, square roots, trig functions] of numbers 
between 1 and 50. The Sort: Sort the data provided 
in ascending (descending) order and print it. 

All of these have innumerable variants and all, 
except for the sort, are based on relatively obvious, 
simple, or already familiar looping algorithms which 
show off the computer’s ability to handle simple 
loops. The sort is a different type of problem: (1) the 
output can be achieved using any of a number of 
algorithms, but not any are truly easy to understand; 
(2) the object of the problem is not to produce the 
output as much as to learn the algorithm and to op¬ 
timize computer efficiency by minimizing core use 
and execution time; (3) the algorithm used is often 
called a production algorithm, one which is used 
widely in application programming. 

All too often students are presented with the sim¬ 
plest algorithm because it is easiest to learn. That is 
true enough, but unfortunately, that algorithm is the 
one students tend to use any time they have to sort, 
just because they know it. This “horseblinders” result 
would be of no consequence were the algorithm 
learned the best one, or even one of the better ones. 
But the algorithm taught, and learned, is usually the 
worst one, the bubble sort. 

This technique is called bubble sorting because 
of the way it “floats” the smaller numbers to the top, 
just like bubbles in a column of water. It might be 
better called the “trouble sort,” though, because of all 
the machinations that go on at the lower level just 
to float that number up there. 

Slightly better, in terms of efficiency, is the de¬ 
layed replacement sorting technique. This is really a 
modification of the bubble sort, except that the 
smallest of two numbers is not “floated” until it is 
found to be the smallest of all; whereas the bubble 
sort floats the smaller of a pair, then checks another 
pair, the delayed replacement sort checks all pairs 
and floats only the one found to be the smallest. 
This greatly reduces the number of executions of 
the switching statements. The number of pairwise 
comparisons is exactly equal both in the delayed re¬ 
placement sort and in the bubble sort, and that num¬ 
ber rises exponentially as the number of elements 
to be sorted rises. 


An adaptation by Marlene Metzner (2) of the Shell 
sort overcomes both difficulties: the number of com¬ 
parisons is roughly ten times the number of elements 
to be sorted, and the number of switches is roughly 
five times the number of elements, if that number of 
elements is less than 1000. This ratio of comparisons 
to switches makes intuitive sense, since one would 
expect that a pair of numbers chosen for possible 
switching would require switching only half the time. 

Appended to this article is a listing of a BASIC 
program which was used to test sorting algorithms. 
As an added benefit, the random numbers produced 
are made to approximate a normal distribution and 
are truncated. Thus the output from this program 
can be used as a sample of scores with known 
statistics. By timing the three methods of sorting 
using various sample sizes, some estimates of sort¬ 
ing time were calculated. Figure 1 shows graphically 
the effect of algorithm selection on sorting time. 

Figure 1—Observed Sort Times 
I —Bubble Sort 



Figures 2, 3, and 4 are the flowcharts for the 
three sorting algorithms. All are written to sort a 
table of N data entries in a table D without use of 
any additional array space; that is, they are all 
replacement sorts—array D starts unsorted and be¬ 
comes sorted. The bubble sort, or Sort I, has as a 
characteristic feature the use of only two indices, I 
and J, and no checking of indices except against N, 
the number of elements being sorted. The delayed 
replacement sort, Sort II, uses three indices, I, J, and 
K, and only one of them is compared to N. Note also 
that in Sort II discovering that D(J) is greater than 
D(l) does not force a switch; much more index 
checking is performed first. The Shell-Metzner sort, 
Sort III, at first glance seems to have regressed to 
Sort I in that if D(l) is greater than D(L), they are 
switched. But though this is true, the comparison is 
performed only after much checking, using not 2, not 
3, but 5 indices—I, J, K, L, and M. As a hint in be¬ 
ginning to understand Sort III, consider that the first 


76 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 










Figure 2 


Figure 4 



Figure 3 




compared pair of 100 numbers is the 1st and 51st; 
the second is the 2nd and 52nd; etc. 

Table I summarizes information on execution of 
each of the sorts on sets of 10 to 2,000 elements. 
These elements, or numbers to be sorted, were gen¬ 
erated by the program listed in the appendix, so 
they were normally distributed. The table lists three 
numbers for each set of elements and each algo¬ 
rithm: T = time of execution in milliseconds on a 
DECSystem 10 Kl processor; S = number of times 
pairs of elements were switched; C = number of 


Table I—Sort Execution Data 



N 

Approximate 
Proportionality to N 



10 

20 

50 

100 

200 

500 

1,000 



T 

33 

84 

450 

1,700 

7,500 

34,000 

150,000 

.385 N 1 -** 

SORT I 

S 

19 

100 

620 

2,700 

11,000 

63,000 

250,000 

.25 H 2 

BUBBLE 

c 

45 

190 

1,225 

4,950 

19 ,900 

124,750 

499,500 

.5 N 1 

SORT II 

T 

17 

50 

250 

830 

4,100 

20,000 

75,000 

.206 N l ’ 

DELAYED 

S 

5 

17 

46 

90 

190 

490 

990 

N 

REP'T. 

c 

45 

190 

1,225 

4,950 

19,900 

124,750 

499 ,500 

.5 N* 

SORT III 

T 

17 

34 

130 

320 

600 

1,600 

3,700 

1.18 N 1-1 * 

SHELL- 

s 

13 

34 

150 

450 

930 

2,600 

5,900 

2N 1,1 ' 

METZNER 

c 

31 

85 

320 

900 

2,100 

5,800 

13,000 

4 N 1 • 1 * 


NOV-DEC 1 976 


77 




















































































FIGURE V-LOG-LOG TRANSFORMATION OF SORT TIME VS SORT SIZE 


times pairs of elements were compared. All values 
in the table were rounded to two significant digits 
for clarity, except the number of comparisons in 
Sorts I and II, which are always’exact ( (N 2 —N)/2 ). 

One of the effects of sorting normally distributed 
numbers is evident in Table I: the number of 
switches in Sorts I and III is less than half the num¬ 
ber of compares by an amount equal to the pairs 
which were equal. That is, almost half of the com¬ 
pared pairs were right to begin with (A<B); almost 
half had to be switched (A>B); and some were left 
alone because they were equal (A = B). For this 
reason the proportionalities shown may increase 
slightly when these sorts are used on data with very 
few equal values. 

In both Sort I and Sort II all possible pairs of 
elements were compared once; in 10 numbers the 
45 comparisons are: 9 of #1 with the remaining 9; 
8 of #2 with the remaining 8; 7 of #3 with the re¬ 
maining 7; etc., such that the number of com¬ 
parisons C = 9 + 8 + 7 + 6 + 5 + 4 + 3 + 2 + 1 = 45.* 

In Sort II the number of switches is always less 
than the number of elements. This is because in this 
algorithm a switch is executed only when an ele¬ 
ment has found its place. 

In Sort III many elements must be switched more 
than once, but far fewer compares are executed. One 
may consider this algorithm to be intelligent enough, 
so to speak, that it is aware that if A< B and B<C 
there is no reason to compare A to C; A must be 
smaller. 

Table I also indicates the approximate quan¬ 
titative relationships between N and C or S for 
each of the algorithms. A curvilinear regression anal¬ 
ysis (1) was performed on the sort times to determine 
the equations which would predict the sort times 
given the number of elements. In each of the equa¬ 
tions listed below, T is the time in milliseconds, and 
N is the number of elements. The coefficient and 
exponent are given to three significant digits only, 
as this is empirical evidence. 


SORT I 
SORT II 
SORT III 


T = 
T = 


.385 N 
.206 N 


1.84 

184 


T =1.18 N 


1.18 


Note that the time-saving with Sort II over 
Sort I is in the coefficient, and that it is in the ex¬ 
ponent with Sort III. Figure 5 is a transposed plot 
of the data in Figure 1, but this time on log-log 
paper. It is evident that Sorts I and II have equal 
slopes (thus equal exponents) and that Sort III has 
a reduced slope. ■ 

One cannot resist adding as Table II some sorting 
times for very large arrays using these three tech¬ 
niques. Of course, one must have available a great 
deal of memory to perform some of these sorts; and 
only under special circumstances and with additional 
merging algorithms can a programmer use these 
sorting techniques for large disk or tape sorts. A 
clear indication of the advantage of Sort III over 
both Sorts I and II can be calculated using data in 
Tables I and II. For every tenfold increase in ele¬ 
ments to be sorted, there is a seventyfold increase 
in sort time using I and II, but only a fifteenfold in¬ 
crease using Sort III. 


* This is another classic programming problem, the 
Sum-of-digits. Most teachers force their students to 
program the brute force sum to teach looping tech¬ 
niques rather than Gauss’ elegant Sum = (N 2 + N)/2. 


100,000 


10,000 



N 


TABLE II—TIMING OF VERY LARGE CORE SORTS 


N 

10,000 
100,000 
1 ,000 ,000 
10,000 ,000 


Sort I 
2.5 hrs 
7.1 days 
490 days 
93 years 


Sort II 
1.3 hrs 
3.8 days 
260 days 
50 years 


Sort III 

1 min 
15 min 
3.9 hrs 
2.5 days 


When this study was started, its purpose was to 
determine the crossover point at which the Shell- 
Metzner sort would begin to be more efficient than 
either of the other two. After all, it does take more 
coding space, and it does execute more statements 
given very small sorts. But after dealing with all 
three of these algorithms, it became more and more 
obvious that any production core sort code should 
use Sort III. The only excuse, weak as it is, for using 
either of the other two would be to teach the basics 
of sorting algorithms, or of following a flowchart. 
And under no circumstances should a student ever 
be taught the bubble sort or the delayed replace¬ 
ment sort without being presented the Shell-Metzner 
sort as well. 


References: 

1. Gottlieb, Byron S., Programming with BASIC, 
McGraw-Hill Book Company, Schaum’s Outline 
Series in Accounting (1975), 175-183. 

2. Stuart, Fredric, FORTRAN Programming, John 
Wiley and Sons (New York, 1969), 294-295. From 
a method published by Marlene Metzner, Pratt and 
Whitney Aircraft Company. From a method 
described by D. L. Shell. 


John P. Grillo is a convert from chemistry to computing. He was an analytical 
chemist for Sandia Corporation in Albuquerque, New Mexico for four years. 
After three years of study at the University of New Mexico for his advanced 
degree, he taught at Albuquerque Technical-Vocational Institute, then the 
Computer Information Systems Department at West Texas State University. 
He is there now as an assistant professor. His research interests are the 
man-machine interface and CAI 


78 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 











10 DIM R2< 2800) 

20 PRINT "THIS PROGRAM PRODUCES A NORMALLV DISTRIBUTED SAMPLE" 

20 PRINT "OF UP TO 2868 POSITIVE INTEGERS ACCORDING TO V'OUR DEMANDS. 
46 PRINT 

50 PRINT "DO VOU WISH TO TIME SORTING ALGORITHMS"; 

INPUT St 

IF S$0"VES" GOTO 150 
PRINT "SELECT SORTING ALGORITHM:” 


"TVPE 
" B 
" R 
" S 

S* 

"TVPE THE FOLLOWING 


TO USE” 

BUBBLE" 

DELAVED REPLACEMENT" 
SHELL - MET2NER" 


SAMPLE SIZE, MEAN, STD. DEV. 


2000 " 


USING CENTRAL LIMIT THEOREM TECHNIQUE 


^ PRoCjRNNS To TEST 
SSORT AL&oRlTHfAS 


"WHAT FORM OF OUTPUT DO VOU WANT?" 


€0 
70 
80 

90 PRINT 
106 PRINT 
110 PRINT 
120 PRINT 
12-0 PRINT 
140 INPUT 
150 PRINT 
168 52=S4=F=0 
170 X1 = TI M 
180 INPUT V, M, S 
196 IF VO2088 GO TO 248 
208 PRINT "MAXIMUM SIZE = 

210 GO TO 150 
220 
220 

240 'COMPUTE RANDOM NOS. 

250 FOR N=1 TO V 
260 R=0 

270 FOR J=1 TO 12 
288 RaR+RND 
290 NEXT J 
280 R=M+S*<R-6> 

210 R2<N)=INT<R) 

228 S2=S2+R2<N) 

220 S4=S4+R2<N)*R2<N) 

240 NEXT N 
256 X2=TIM-X1 
268 PRINT 
276 PRINT 
2S0 PRINT 

290 PRINT VRANDOM NUMBERS GENERATED IN"X2"SECONDS 

460 PRINT 

410 PRINT 

420 M2 = S2/V 

420 V2=S4-M2*S2 

440 V2=V27<V-l) 

450 PRINT "MEAN = "M2; 

460 PRINT ", STD DEV. ="SQR<V2) 

476 PRINT 
488 PRINT 
490 PRINT 
508 PRINT 
510 PRINT 
526 PRINT 
526 PRINT 
540 PRINT 
550 PRINT 
568 PRINT 
570 INPUT Q* 

580 IF LEFT$<Q$,1)<>“F" GOTO 620 
590 PRINT "WHAT IS THE NAME OF THE FILE" 

608 INPUT Ft 
618 FILE #1, Ft 
620 SCRATCH #1 
628 IF Q$O"G" GOTO 688 
640 IF F=1 GOTO 660 
650 GOSUB 1220 
660 GOSUB 1840 
676 GOTO 920 

688 IF RIGHT$(0$, 1)0"S" GOTO 710 
690 IF F = 1 GOTO 710 
708 GOSUB 1226 

710 IF LEFT$CQ$, 1)0"F" GOTO 868 
728 FOR A=1 TO V BV 18 
728 FOR B = A TO A + 9 
740 IF B>V GO TO 928 
756 PRINT #1,R2(B); 

760 NEXT B 
770 PRINT #1 
780 NEXT A 
790 GOTO 920 

880 IF LEFT$<Qf,1)= M T" GOTO 850 
810 IF LEN<Q$>>0 GOTO 828 
820 STOP 

820 PRINT "IMPROPER OUTPUT CODE; 

840 GOTO 470 
850 FOR A = 1 TO V BV 18 
860 FOR B=A TO A+9 
876 IF B>V GOTO 928 
888 PRINT R 2 < B >; 

898 NEXT B 
908 PRINT 
910 NEXT A 
928 PRINT 

928 PRINT "DIFFERENT OUTPUT"; 

940 INPUT Q t 

950 IF Cf = "VES" GOTO 516 
960 IF Q$<>"NO" GOTO 5S0 

970 PRINT "DO VOU WANT ANOTHER SET OF NUMBERS" 

980 INPUT T t 

998 IF T*="VES" GO TO 158 
1000 STOP 
1010 


"TVPE 
" 6 
" T 
" F 
" TS 
" FS 


IF VOU WANT" 

HISTOGRAM ON TTV" 

NUMBERS ON TTV" 

NUMBERS ON FILE" 

NUMBERS ON TTV, SORTED" 
NUMBERS ON FILE, SORTED" 


TRY AGAIN" 


79 


1020 

1020 'GRAPHING ROUTINE 
1040 L=R2<1> 

1650 H = R 2 < V ) 

I860 I=<H-L>/26 

1076 PRINT "GRAPH OF"V"NUMBERS PRODUCED, FROM"L"TO"H"BV"I 
1080 PRINT 
3096 PRINT 
1106 B = 1 

3110 FOR A=L TO H BV I 
1128 PRINT INTCA), 

1126 IF R2<BXR2<B-i> GOTO 1286 

114G IF R2 < B > >A GOTO 1180 

1156 PRINT 

1160 B=B+1 

3170 GOTO 1126 

118G PRINT 

1198 NEXT A 

1200 PRINT 

1210 PRINT 

3226 RETURN 

322G 'SORTING ROUTINE 

1246 F=1 

1256 X1 = TIM 

1268 IF S*="R" GOTO 1586 
3 276 IF S$ ="B" GOTO 1220 
1280 GOTO 1710 
1296 
3 206 

.1216 ' BUBBLE SORT 

3226 PRINT "BUBBLE SORT ALGORITHM" 

3228 N7=C7=0 
3246 FOF 0=1 TO V-l 
3256 FOR B=A+l TO V 
3260 C7=C7+1 

3276 IF R2<RXR2<B)GGT0 1420 
3286 N7=N7+1 
3296 T = P 2 < A ) 

3406 R2 < A)=R2(B) 

3410 R2< B) = T 
1426 NEXT B, A 
3428 X2=TIM-Xl 

3440 PRINT X2"SECONDS SORTING TIME. " 

3450 PRINT N7"SWITCHES EXECUTED. " 

1466 PRINT C7"C:0MPARIS0NS EXECUTED. " 

3470 RETURN 

I486 

3496 

3506 'DELAVED REPLACEMENT SORT 

3510 PRINT "DELAVED REPLACEMENT SORT ALGORITHM:" 

1526 N7=C7=6 

3520 J7=K7=L7=0 

1540 L7=L7+1 

3550 IF L7=V GOTO 1426 

1568 J7 = L7 

3570 K7=J7+1 

1586 C7=C7+i 

1596 IF R2<K?)>R2<J7) GOTO 1618 

3660 J7 = K7 

361G K7 = K7 +1 

1620 IF K 7 O V GOTO 1580 

3620 IF L7=J7 GOTO 1540 

3646 N7=N7+1 

1656 T=P2<J7> 

3660 R2<J7>=R2<L7> 

3670 R2<L7> = T 
1680 GOTO 1546 
1698 
1700 

1710 'SHELL - METZNER SORT 

1726 PRINT "SHELL - METZNER SORT " 

3720 N7=C7=6 

1748 M6=V 

1756 M6 = INT< M6/2) 

1768 IF M6=0 GOTO 1420 

1770 K6=V-M6 

1780 xT6 = l 

3 790 I 6 = J6 

1800 L6=I6+M6 

1810 C7=C7+1 

1820 IF R2(I6X = R2(L6) GOTO 1898 
1826 N7=N7+1 
1846 T = R2<16) 

3856 R2<I6)=R2<L6) 

3860 R2<L6)=T 

3876 16=16-M6 

1886 IF I6>=1 GOTO I860 

3890 J6=J6+1 

I960 IF J6>K6 GOTO 1758 

3910 GOTO 1798 

1926 END 

READ V 





THIS PROGRAM PRODUCES ft NORMAtLV DISTRIBUTED SftMPLE 

OF UP TO 2660 POSITIVE INTEGERS ACCORDING TO VOUR DEMANDS. 


DAYS 

AND 

DATES 


DO VOU WISH TO TIME SORTING ALGORITHMS ?VES 
SELECT SORTING ALGORITHM: 

TVPE TO USE 

B BUBBLE 

R DELAVED REPLACEMENT 

S SHELL - METZNER 

?R 

TVPE THE FOLLOWING SAMPLE SIZE, MEAN, STD. DEV. 
?100,100,15 


100 RANDOM NUMBERS GENERATED IN 0. 216 SECONDS. 


MEAN = 100. 81 , STD. DEV. = 15 5879 


WHAT FORM OF OUTPUT DO VOU WANT? 

TVPE IF VOU WftNT 

G HISTOGRAM ON TTV 

T NUMBERS ON TTV 

F NUMBERS ON FILE 


TS 

NUMBERS ON 

TTV. 

SORTED 



FS 

NUMBERS ON 

FILE 

, SORTED 



?T 







101 

149 

98 88 

69 

81 184 

115 

121 111 

115 

105 

101 82 

120 

112 88 

107 108 115 

95 

117 

80 89 

111 

97 115 

95 

105 102 

109 

102 

84 127 

99 

112 96 

77 

98 92 

87 

97 

74 125 

114 

125 82 

102 

90 100 

108 

104 

92 92 

112 

106 85 

76 

112 122 

102 

110 

72 88 

104 

91 128 

107 122 106 

185 

80 

106 76 

110 

82 82 

82 

92 92 

100 

102 

121 10 

2 72 

101 108 

88 114 119 

120 

111 

71 89 

95 

106 94 

88 

90 120 


DIFFERENT OUTPUT ?TS 
DELAVED REPLACEMENT SORT ALGORITHM 
0. 967 SECONDS SORTING TIME. 

96 SWITCHES EXECUTED. 

4950 COMPARISONS EXECUTED. 


69 

71 72 

72 

74 

76 

76 77 80 

80 



81 

82 82 

82 

82 

82 

84 85 87 

88 



88 

88 88 

88 

89 

89 

90 90 91 

92 



92 

92 92 

92 

94 

95 

95 95 96 

97 



97 

98 98 

99 

100 

100 

101 101 

101 

102 


102 

102 10 

2 . 

102 

102 

104 104 

104 

105 

105 

105 

106 106 

106 

106 

107 187 

108 

108 

108 

109 

110 110 

111 

111 

111 112 

112 

112 

112 

114 

114 11 

5 

115 

115 

115 117 

119 

126 

120 

120 

12G 12 

1 

122 

125 

127 121 

122 

125 

149 


DIFFERENT OUTPUT ?G 

GRAPH OF 100 NUMBERS PRODUCED, FROM 69 TO 149 BV 2. 66667 


69 * 

71 * 

74 * * * 

7 7 * * 4: 

79 

8 2 * * 4: 4: 4-' * 

85 * * * * 

87 * 

90 ********* 

92 ** 4' * 4 4: 

95 4 44 4 

98 44444 

101 444444 

102 ****** 

106 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 

109 4 4 4 4 4 4 

ill 4 4 4 4 4 

114 4 4 4 4 4 4 

117 4 4 4 4 4 

119 4 

122 4 4 4 4 4 

125 4 4 

127 4 

120 

122 44 

125 4 

128 

141 

142 
146 


James Reagan 
Mathematics Teacher 
Stevenson High School 
Sterling Heights, Michigan 


Dates become important and remembered because of 
their importance. You remember your birthday, that perfect 
date, a confirmation or bar mitzvah, a marriage, divorce, 
death, birth, or graduation date of yourself or your love. 
These are personal. Remember the dates? Sure. Remember 
the day of the week? No? I didn't think so. But now, to take 
you back in your memory lane to that fond or dreaded day 
there is a find-the-day-of-the-week formula known as 
Zeller's Congruence. 

If you don't care about your personal past, how knowl¬ 
edgeable are you about your historical past? Try the quiz to 
see. 

An Illustrative Quiz 

Provide the date and the day of the week for each of the 
following events. 

1. The stock market crashes beginning the Great 
Depression. 

2. The Second Continental Congress adopts the 
Declaration of Independence. 

3. Japan attacks Pearl Harbor. 

4. President Lincoln is assssinated at Ford's Theater. 

5. The bombardment of Fort Sumter begins the Civil 
War. 

6 . General Custer makes his "last stand" at Little Big 
Horn. 

7. Russia launches Sputnik I, the first artificial 
satellite. 

8 . The United States of America drops an atomic bomb 
on Hiroshima, Japan. 

9. President Kennedy is slain by an assassin's bullet in 
Dallas, Texas. 

10. The oceanliner Lusitania is sunk by German U-boat 
torpedoes killing 1198 persons including 124 
Americans. 

11. German armies invade Poland starting World War 
Two. 

12. The United States Supreme Court rules in the case 
of Brown v Board of Education that separate schools 
based upon skin color are inherently unequal. 

13. South Korea is invaded by North Korean troops. 

14. Richard M. Nixon resigns as President of the United 
States of America. 

15. D-day. Allied troops land in Normandy, France. 

Scoring: Count 1 point each for month, day of the month, 
and year; count 5 points for correct day of the week. There 
are a possible 8 points for each event with 120 possible 
points for the quiz. If you scored 0-10 points you are about 
average; 11-20 points above average; 21-40 points 
superior; 41-80 points unbelievable; 81-120 points an 
historical nut — congratulations!!! 


80 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 







For those of you who need help 1) reread history books for 
the date and 2) utilize Zeller's Congruence todetermine the 
day of the week for any particular date. The formula is: 


F = ( | 2.6m -0.2 | + k + d + — + - 2c)mod 7. 

4 4 

In this formula, F will have a value 0, 1,2, 3, 4, 5, or 6; the 
corresponding day of the week is Sunday, Monday, 
Tuesday, Wednesday, ..or Saturday. The modulus 7 can 
be thought of as the remainder when the value of the 
parenthetical expression is divided by 7. 

The righthand side of the congruence contains the 
variables described as follows: 
k is the day of the month, 
c is the number of hundreds in the year, 
d is the year in the century, and 
m is the month number, but not the layman's month 
number. 

January and February are month numbers 11 and 1 2 
of the preceding year (affecting d and possibly c 
described above), March is month number 1, April is 
month 2, May is 3, ..., and December is month 
number 10. 

The square brackets,| |, indicate that the "greatest integer 

value" is to be applied to the included expression. A specific 
example follows. 

Example 

The date is October 12, 1956. In layman's terms the date 
is expressed as 10, 12, 1956. For Zeller's Congruence we 
use m = 8, k = 12, c = 19, and d = 56. 

Substituting these values into the right side of the 
congruence we have 

F = (| 2.6*8 - 0.21 + 12 + 56+ — + — -2*19)mod7 

4 4 

= (| 20.8 - 0.21 + 12 + 56 + | 14 | + | 4.751 - 38) mod 7 
= (20 + 12 + 56 + 14 + 4 - 38)mod 7 
= (68) mod 7 
= 5 mod 7. 


Thus, we conclude that the day of the week is Friday. 

In the application of the formula the following mapping 
may be a helpful study guide. 


LAYMAN'S 

NOTATION 

10-12-1956 
9-18-1963 
12-25-1972 
3- 9-1929 
2- 6-1976 
1-13-1970 
1 - 1-2000 


FORMULA 

REQUIRES 

8,12,19,56 
7,18,19,63 
10,25,19,72 
1, 9,19,29 
12, 6,19,75 
11,13,19,69 
11, 1,19,99 


F VALUE 
COMPUTED 

5 
3 
1 

6 

5 
2 

6 


DAY OF 
THE WEEK 

Friday 

Wednesday 

Monday 

Saturday 

Friday 

Tuesday 

Saturday 


It might be helpful to understand that the month numbers 
for the application of the congruence begin with March = 1 
and continue to the following February = 1 2; inthiswayany 
leap year day is placed at the end of the formula year. 

The First Problem 

Write a program that will accept any date in layman's 
terms and print the corresponding day of the week. The 
program must provide the translation for the application of 
the variables used in the congruence. For example, if one 
types 1,13,1974the program must translate these valuesto 
11,13,1 9,73 for the corresponding values of m, k, c and d, 
respectively. Using this program you may verify the days of 
the week for the dates of the Illustrative Quiz. 


The Second Problem 

Superstitions have developed over the history of man. 
Many people are superstitious of certain events; those who 
are not superstitious have some knowledge of the 
superstitions. Some of the events associated with "bad 
luck" are: walking under a ladder, having a black cat cross 
one's path, and breaking a mirror. Perhaps the most well 
known of all superstitions involves "Black Friday," the 
description of Friday the Thirteenth. 

This year, 1976, has two Friday the Thirteenths; one 
occurred in February and the other in August. This may be 
verified by a search of the calendar or by observation of a 
perpetual calendar. 

The second problem becomes one of modifying the 
program produced to solve the first problem: produce a list 
of Friday the Thirteenths over a given interval of years. For 
example, produce a list of Friday the Thirteenths for the 
years from 1977 to 1980. 

The Third Problem 

This third problem might be investigated using the 
computer program produced for the second problem. 
However, there is also a rigorous mathematical proof of the 
conjectures motivated by the computer investigation. 

The problem is stated in the form of two questions: 

1. What is the most number of Friday the Thirteenths in 
any given year? 

2. Is there any year that does not have at least one Friday 
the Thirteenth? 

The Fourth Problem 

Some workers are paid bi-weekly, that is they are paid 
every-other week. The traditional payday is Friday. In a 
given year there are some months that have 5 Fridays; two 
of these months occur so that there are 3 paydays in that 
month, one on each of the first, third and fifth Fridays. The 
month of February has 4 of each day of the week except in 
years that are leap years; then one day occurs five times. If 
that day that occurs fivetimes is Friday, there is a possibility 
that three paydays may occur in that month. 

In what years will February have five Fridays? How often 
does this occur? If one has bi-weekly pay-periods and one of 
them does occur on the first Friday of a leap year February 
beginning on Friday, will the same situation occur again in 
the worker's lifetime? 


Answers To Illustrative Quiz 

Aepsani ‘.ppGi '9 0un P ‘91 
Aepuj '6 isn6nv pi 
AepuojAi .'0961 ‘9Z aunp £i 
AepuoiAi -17961 ‘Li Ae|/\| Zi 
Aepuj '6861 'i Jaqweideg it 
Aepuj '9161 'L Ab|/\j oi 
Aepud -8961 'ZZ JQqwoAON 6 
AepuoiAi :gt76l '9 isn6nv Q 
Aepud :z.96l ‘P ^qoioo L 
Aepung :g^8l ‘9Z 0 unp g 
AepUd -1981 ‘Zi l! JC V '9 
Aepseni :gg8l ‘pi |udv p 
Aepung ‘ipQi ‘L JaqiuaoeQ £ 
Aepung >A|np z 

Aepsjnqi :q Z q t 'p Z jeqoioo * i 


ANSWERS TO COMPUTER LITERACY QUIZ 


1. F 

7. F 

13.4 

19. F 

25. F 

2. F 

8. F 

14. T 

20. T 

26. T 

3. 1 

9. T 

15. T 

21. F 

27. T 

4. T 

10 . 1 

16. 2 

22. F 

28.4 

5. 5 

11. T 

17. 3 

23. F 

29.4 

6. 2 

12. 3 

18. T 

24.4 

30. F 


NOV DEC 1 976 


81 







Puzzles and 
Problems for Fun 

JOKER 

Four cards, one of each suit, and one each Jack, 
Queen, King and Ace are laid out in a row. 

1. The heart isn't next to the club. 

2. No card is next to its immediate senior in rank. 

3. The colors of the suits alternate. 

4. The king and queen face in opposite directions. 

5. The Jack of diamonds is not in the row. 

Identify the four cards. 


YEAR IN, YEAR OUT 

If you take the figures in the year 1974 and multiply 
them together (1 x 9 x 7 x 4) you end up with the product 
252. What is the next date on which this happens? 

Similarly 1975 multiplies out to give 315; how long 
will we have to wait until this happens again? 

Games & Puzzles 



COMPUTER 

RECREATIONS 


by D. Van Tassel 

Chess Programs 

Chess is a popular game but not many of us can write a 
program to play chess. But there are many interesting pro¬ 
grams that can be based on chess pieces. 

A real simple program is one that reads the row and 
column of the queen as input, and asoutput prints a picture 
of the board with the square the queen is on marked with a 
Q. Next mark the squares the queen could move to with *'s 
and mark all other squares with +'s. A queen can move 
vertically, horizontally, or diagonally as far as desired. For 
example, a chess-board with a queen in the second row and 
third column would look as follows: 

+ *** + + + + 
**Q***** 

+ *** + + + + 

* + * + * + + + 

+ + * + + * + + 

+ + * + + + * + 

+ + * + + + + * 

+ + * + + + + + 

A more interesting program isthe Eight Queens problem: 
Write a program to place 8 queens on a chessboard such 
that no queen can take any of the others. This means that no 
two queens may be on the same row, on the same column, 
or on the same diagonal. This is not a trivial program nor is 
impossible. I suggest you try it by hand before attempting 
the program. An elegant solution by Niklaus Wirth is dis¬ 
cussed in the book Structured Programming by Dahl, 
Kijkstra, and Hoare, Academic Press. 


FILLERUP 

Try to arrange the full names of the fifty states into an 
interlocking pattern, crossword-fashion, minimizing the 
area of the rectangle into which the completed pattern will 
fit. All of the state names must be used once and only once. 
All of the names must be interconnected; that is, no name 
or group of names may be unconnected from the rest of the 
names in the completed diagram. Your crossword diagram 
must be of the kind which uses blacked-out squares. Spaces 
in state-names are to be ignored. 

Games & Puzzles 

READING MATTER 

A printer uses 1215 characters to number the pages of 
a book. How many pages are in the book? 


Thinkers' Corner 


by Layman E. Allen © 1976 

WORD PUZZLES 

How many of the problems (a) through (f) below can 
you solve by forming a network of words that have 
exactly as many letters as the number listed as the 
GOAL? (Suppose that each symbol below is imprinted on 
a disc.) 

To qualify as a network 

(1) all sequences of discs across and down must be 
words, 

(2) the words must have two or more letters and not 
be proper names, 

(3) all of the discs inthe REQUIREDcolumn must be 
used, 

(4) as many of the discs in PERMITTED as you wish 
may be used, and 

(5) at most one of the discs in RESOURCES may be 
used. 

Example: The number of letters in the words of the 
network 

CAT is 7: CAT=3, TO=2, ON=2 

ON 3 + 2 + 2 = 7 

The number in the network CAT is 3. 


Problem 

GOAL 

REQUIRED 

PERMITTED 

RESOURCES 

(a) 

7 

DR 

EO R T 

CEKL MPS 

(b) 

8 

El Z 

EH K 0 

DENO P RS 

(c) 

10 

CEO 

AE MOT 

ACKMN QU 

(d) 

14 

EOS 

AMP SU 

ADNO R ST 

(e) 

16 

NOW 

AN N OTW 

ACF GH NP 

(f) 

21 

El T V 

EL N NRS T 

ABEMS RX 


t70L8t7 

IIAI Moqjvuuv'peoy pje^ped /\A ‘006 L 'a3ua6i||8ju| ueiunn jojuawaoueq 
-113 aqi jo) uouepunoy aqj_ iuoj) isanbaj uodn aiqeneAe s| sauie6 leuoq 
-ornisu! jaqjo puesjqi inoqe uoqewjoju! aajj sajmorujg pjo/v\ jo awe0 
: SOHOM'NO 6u|Ae|d a>w Aeiu noA 'a|zznd )o pup| S|qi Aofua noA )| 


1 






N 3 1 




3 


N3A3 


a 


Z 


a IS 


dVOS 


I 


1 

<J) 

3sn 

(P) 

30HS 

(q) 

N 


3 


a 3d 


AA 


±v 


s 


N OON 


0 


0 


1NVAA 

0) 

3D NO 

0) 

u 

(e) 


.'(sjdL/jo aje ajaqi Apuanbajj) sj9msu\ / paisa66ns autos 


82 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 









Progression Problems 


Charles A. Reeves 
Tallahassee, Florida 


Last week we grew paramecium in a hay infusion, as 
described in the experiment from our science book 
(Today's Basic Science). We put some hay in a bucket of 
tap water, and left it sitting by itself for 7 days. At the end 
of that time, we had a bucket full of the things. 

The book also mentioned that paramecium reproduce by 
cell division about every 5 hours. Assume that there was 
only 1 paramecium in the bucket when we started — how 
many would there be at the end of the 7th day? 

For those who want more: Have the computer print the 
number of paramecium at the end of the 4th, 5th, 6th, and 
7th days, all in one run! 

On page 194 of Today's Basic Science , you will find: 
"The female grasshopper is especially adapted for 
egg-laying. The female lays from 20 to 100 eggs. It lays 
the eggs in the ground or perhaps in a rotted log. A 
structure at the tip of the abdomen enables the female 
to dig a hole in the ground or in rotted wood. This 
structure is called the 'ovipositer'." 



Assume for a moment that you are a scientist, doing an 
experiment with grasshoppers over a ten-year period. You 
are applying for a grant from the U. S. government, and so 
you have to plan how much money you will spend on food, 
tags, etc. for these animals. 

You have to first find out how many grasshoppers you 
will have in a ten year period (you are starting the 
experiment with only 1 pair, a male and a female). Have the 
computer calculate and report to you approximately how 
many grasshoppers will be born from that one pair. 
Grasshoppers live only one year, so the females will lay eggs 
only once in their lives. Assume also that half of those born 
will be males. 

Write a program that you can use to find the average of a 
given set of numbers. We will use this program to find the 
class average on tests, and to find the average height and 
weight of the class. You will want to tell the computer to 
save this program for future usage. 



It takes nature about 500 years to produce 1 inch of 
topsoil. Many years ago our country had an average depth 
of almost 9 inches of this good dirt, but now we are down 


to 6 inches. This type of dirt is necessary, of course, for 
growing food. 

Careless management of our soil causes about 1% per 
year to erode away, and then it's lost forever. Once we get 
down to less than 3 inches, it will be impossible to grow 
crops on a major scale. Have the computer calculate and 
report to you the year that our country will have less than 
3 inches of topsoil, assuming that it continues to erode 
away at 1 % per year. 

Will you be alive then? Will your children be alive? 



Jack got a pair of bunnies as a New Year's Day present 
in 1972. This pair became a pair of young rabbits in 
February, and a pair of adult rabbits in March. A pair of 
adult rabbits produces a pair of bunnies each month from 
then on, and this growth cycle continues. The number of 
pairs of rabbits of each type is provided below, for the first 
six months: 


Pairs of bunnies 
Pairs of young 
Pairs of adults 
Total pairs 


Have the computer tell you the maximum number of 
rabbits that Jack could have in three years. [Saving the 
"maximum number" means we are assuming that, of each 


pair born, one is a male and one a female, and that none of 
the rabbits die over this period of time.] 



NOV DEC 1 976 


83 























ONIindtNOO 3AIJ_V3dO 


*8 


‘ls©J ©qi S0op j©)ndiuoo 0L|i -©Bbssquj jnoA uj ©dAi oi 
noA >|sb U0iu imm n -s©qouj u; uj6jBuu puBqi)©| puB 
‘MlPjM ‘iq6j©L| ©qi JO) noA Aj©nb m m j©indiuoo ©qi 

,Nnd, adAi 

; uuejdojd am urn o± 


*1 ! jo) ©poo 

IIOSV aqi spuj) pue iu©ujn6jB 6ujJis ©qi s©>|B) qojqM 
uojioun) ( )qsv aqi s©iB|mujS 366—((„ 
ClllAl)lVO‘ tt O+ „)lVO = (X)VNd d30 1u©lu©ibis ©mi 

:suoue;dep\/ 

*6ujJis p©uf3jsSB 

©Ml uj I; sind pub ‘sjqiobjbmo A Buuunoo pub x 
IB BujiJBis $z 10 Buuisqns b s©>|bi ( a‘X‘$Z )CIIIA1 • 
• 6uuis p©ubjSSB ©Ml uj I; 

sind pub s6ujJis omi s©ibu©ibouoo ( $a‘$x )1V0 • 

,:, = J©ijUJ!|0p !©uj| j©d S1U0LU01B1S ©|dji|n|/\j • 
(1U0UU01B1S) N3H± dl • 
:S0jniB©l it pjBpUBlS-UOU„ 6UjM0||0) 
©Ml qijM 8/SO Japun Qisva 0821103 duuoonpg 

.* aj&AAijOS ay± 


■J9UUBQ lO PB01SU! ggiSOd 1! 
I|B0 oi p©p;o©p | ‘j©uunj©jO) si; oi ©0UB|qiJU©s©j ©him 
os sjB©q mou i! ©oujs *oib ‘bujbs ©mi bjb t i, ©Ml pub 

J, ©Ml ‘BLUBS ©Ml BJB ,Z, ©Ml PUB Z , aqi UOISJ0A J0LU 

-jo) ©Ml u| -Abm ©ujbs ©Ml ino lUjjd oj©z ©Ml pub 
©M l ld©ox© sj©u©| omi ou iuBj6ojd Alu u| -©iBjjdojddB 
©j©MM sj©ujoo p©punoj ©abm mou sj©u©| ©mi MV *umo 

AlU )0 SJ01OBJBMO ©JO111 M0) B p©ppB PUB SJ©U©| ©Ml 

MB )0 ©dBqs ©Ml p©Bubmo A|©)©|dujoo | sjMl 6ujop u| 
•©ujinojqns j©d suojioun) ©jolu jo omi p©wjO)j©d ibmi 
s©ujinojqns ©sodjnd-jiinw ©pBiu | ‘LUBjBojd Alu u; os 
•|n)©isBM A|0 lu 0 jix© sbm ‘©ujinojqns j©d uojioun) ©uo 
A|uo pub ©uo p©LUJO)j©d ©ujinojqns mob© ibmi Iob) 
©Ml ‘JBsn j©d ©joo ubmi ss©| sbm qojqM lu©isAs 
jno joj inoiujjd jj©Ml p©mojiuoo ibmi s©ujinojqns 
©iduujs Ajqa MljM SJ0UJOO ©JBnbs pbm ||B A©qi *6uj>jOO| 
-ujB|d j©mibBoi|b pub p©iqjB6 s©iuji©luos ©J 0M ino 
lUjjd pinoM LUBj6ojd ©Ml sj©ii©| ©Ml ‘©|jqMUB©|/\| 

’ p©A|OS 

sbm uj©|qojd isjj) ©Ml os ‘uojioun) ( )qsv aqi PBiB| 
-niujs ibmi uojioun) p©U!)0p-j©sn 082(103 us puno) 
I \©6 ubmo, )u©iu©ibis ©Ml JO) uojiBiniujs b 6ujpuj) 
sbm iu©iqojd isjj) ©Ml •joss©o©p©jd sij oi ©ouB|q 

-LU0S0J ©llljl 6ujJB©q MOU UOjSjAQJ 0)0|dUJOO B SB 
dn p©pu© 0ISV9 jn ° °1 LUBj6ojd |BUj6jJ0 ©Ml idBpB oi 
A|0 J©uj )duj©i)B is©poLU b ©q oi ino p©)JB)s Ibmm 

*||©M SB SQISVa 

J0M1O 01 p©idBpB ©q Amsb© ubo ij inq ‘Qisva 0821103 
dwoonpg j©pun unj oi p©u6jS0p sbm n 'jauueg lubj6 
-OJd BMl 10 UOjlBldBpB UB Sj H31S0d LUBjBojd BMl 

•ssBj/M ‘lubmBujh 

ssQJiunn pjO)pBjg 


H31S0d 


cccccccccccccccc 
cccccccccccccccccc 
cccccccccccccccccccc 
cccccccccccccccccccc 
cccc cccc 

cccc cccc 

cccc cccc 

cccc cccc 

cccc cccc 

cccc cccc 

cccc cccc 

cccc cccc 


0000000000000000 
000000000000000000 
00000000000000000000 
00000000000000000000 
0000 0000 
0000 0000 
0000 0000 
0000 0000 
00000000000000000000 
00000000000000000000 
000000000000000000 
0000000000000000 


fMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM 

MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM 

ftIMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM 

MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM 

MMMMMNMM 

MMMMMMMM 

MMMMMMMM 

MMMMMMMM 

MMMMMMMM 

MMMMMMMM 

MMMMMMMM 

MMMMMMMM 

MMMMMMMM 

MMMMMMMM 

MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM 

MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM 

MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM 

MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM 


PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP 
PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP 
PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP 
PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP 
PPPP PPPP 

PPPP PPPP 

PPPP PPPP 

PPPP PPPP 

PPPPPPPPPPPP 
PPPPPPPPPPPP 
PPPPPPPPPP 
PPPPPPPP 


uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu 

uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu 

uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu 

uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu 

uuuu 

uuuu 

uuuu 

uuuu 

uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu 

uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu 

uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu 

uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu 


TTTT 

TTTT 

TTTT 

TTTT 

TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT 

TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT 

TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT 

TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT 

TTTT 

TTTT 

TTTT 

TTTT 


mi 

mi 

mi 

mi 

niiiiiiiiiniii 

hi iii1111111111 

niiiiiiiiiiitn 

niiiiiiiiiniii 

mi 

mi 

ini 

mi 


NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN 

NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN 

NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN 

NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN 

NNNNNNNN 

NNNNNNNN 

NNNNNNNN 

NNNNNNNN 

NNNNNNNN 

NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN 

NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN 

NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN 

NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN 


GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG 

GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG 

GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG 

GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG 


GGGG GGGG 

GGGG GGGG 

GGGG GGGG 

GGGG GGGG GGGG 
GGGGGGGGGGGG GGGG 

GGGGGGGGGGGG GGGG 

GGGGGSGGGGG GGGG 

GGGGGGGGGG GGGG 

GGGG 


cccccccccccccccc 

CCCCcCCCCCCCCCCCCC 

CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC 

CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC 

cccc cccc 

cccc CcCC 

CCCC CCCC 

cccc cccc 

cccc cccc 

cccc cccc 

cccc cccc 

cccc cccc 


RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR 
RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR 
RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR 
RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR 
RRRR RRRR 

RRRR RRRR 

RRRR RRRR 

RRRR RRRR 

RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR 
RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR 
RRRRRRRRR RRRRRRRR 
RRRRRRRR RRRRRR 


ci.EELEEEEEELLtELL tLc 
tEEEcLcLtEEEEEcLLCtE 
lEEEEEeElEEEEEEEEEEL 
EEEcEEELECCLLELLEELL 
EEEE LEEL LEES 
EEEE cell eeeE 
EEEE EEEE EEEE 
EEEE EEEE fcfe.Lt 
EEEE EEEE e-E EE 
EEEE EEEE eEEE 
eEEE EEEe C.EEE 
EEEE EEEE fcfctfc 


AAAAAAAAAAHA«nrtn«ri 
AAAAAAAAAMAxAmm^mHA 
HAAAAAAAA/UtHHnn>utitnM 
HAAAAAAAA/mtUtiuwuvnnM 
hHah hMHM 

nMHn HMHM 

rtHnn mum 


AAAAAHnMMniuwtwuwiMHn 


TTiT 

TTTT 

TTTT 

TTTT 

TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT 

TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT 

TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT 

TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT 

TTTT 

TTTT 

TTTT 

TTTT 


IIIIIIIIIIII 

UIIIIIIIIII 

uuuimii 

UIIIIIIIIII 


vwwwv 

wvwvvv 

wvwvvv 

VVVVVWV 

vwwwv 

wvwvvv 

wvwvvv 

VVWVWV 

vwvww 

wvwvvv 


EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE 
EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE 
EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE 
EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE 
EEEE EEEE EEEE 
EEEE EEEE EEEE 
EEEE EEEE EEEE 
EEEE EEEE EEEE 
EEEE EEEE EEEE 
EEEE EEEE EEEE 
EEEE EEEE EEEE 
EEEE EEEE EEEE 





















">>-992 
”) x GOSUB940 

001)xC»AxIFF>B4(0)THEN990 


2 !BRADFORD HUNTRESS H.H.S. HINGHAM MASS 

200 PRINT”INPUT HEIGHT/ WIDTH/ & LEFTHAND MARGIN.(ALL IN INCHES)"iINPUTL 
/R/S 

260 PRINT”INPUT MESSAGE”:LINPUTBS 

261 DEFFNACX)-CATC” +0”/CAT(KID(X/I/l>/” 

262 S=S*l2:A»2*R:G0SUBl 500:H4-CATCH4CL)/ 

270 A»2*RxF«F*lXA2-INTCCF/6-INTCF/6))*6+ 

271 IFF/6-INT(F/6)THENA2-6 

272 J4»MID(B4CINTCCF-I)/6)+I>/A2/I>xA1-FNACJ4) 

277 G 4-”” x FOF.X- 1TOL x G 4-CATC G 4/ J4) x NEXTX 

284 FORX-1TOLxG4CX)-”"xFORY*1TOXxG4CX)-CATCGSCX)/J$>xNEXTY 
286 NEXTX 

290 FORX-1TOA/2 x PRINT:NEXTX 

294 IFAI-47THENGOSUB880 xGOT0270 

295 IFAl-39THENG6-1xGOSUB1600XG6-0:G0SUB1600 x GOTO270 

296 IFAl-33THENG6-2»GOSUBl800xG6*lxGOSUB1800xGOTO270 
300 IFAI-46THEN345 

302 IFA1-32THEN630 

303 I FA 1 < 48TH EN27 0 

305 IFA1>57THEN310 

306 0NA1 -47GOTO500/ 445/621/62 5/63 5/ 552/61 5/60 5/ 59 5/ 58 5 
310 I FAl<65THEN27 0 

320 0NA1-64GOTO350/360/37 0/380/390/400/410/430/440/450/460/470/480/490/5 
00/510/520 

331 0NA1-81GOTO530 / 550/ 560 / 570 / 580/ 590 / 6 0 0 / 6 1 0 / 62 0xGOTO270 
345 FORX-ITOA:PRINTTABCS)/G4/G4xNEXTX 

349 GOTO 270 

350 G6-0 xGOSUBl 3001 A-C/2x G0SUB6 40 i A-C x GOSUB690: A* C/2: GOSUB640 x GOSUB 1 400 x 
GOTO270 

360 GOSUB640s GOSUB650 sA-C/2 XGOSUB6 40x G6-0x GOSUB80 5sGOTO270 
370 G6 - 1 x GOSUB840 x A-C/2 x GOSUB6 40 : A-C x GOSUB700 x GOSUB700 x GOTO270 
380 GOSUB640 x G0SUB7 00 XA-C/2:GQSUB6 40: G6-0xGOSUBS40:GOTO270 
390 GOSUB640 x GOSUB6 50:G0SUE650:GOTO270 
400 GOSUB640:GOSUB690:G OSUB690 x GOTO270 

410 G6-1XGOSUB840 xA-C/2:GOSUB640x A=C*.7 5sGOSUB700 x A-A/3x G0SUB6 50 x A-2* A 

411 G0SUB7 60 x G6*3 xGOSUB1800 xA-A/2xG0SUB710tGOTO270 
430 GOSUB640:G0SUB710 XGOSUB640 XGOTO270 

440 GOSUB7 00 x GOSUB640 sGOSUB700sGOTO270 

445 G0SUB912s A-C/2xGOSUB700 :A-C XGOSUB640x G0SUB740:GOTO270 

450 G0SUB645x A-C/2 x G0SUB7 50 x A-C x G0SUB7 40:A-C/2x GOSUB640 x G6-1x G0SUB1400 x G 

OTO270 

460 GOSUB640 s GOSUB860 XGOTO270 

470 GOSUB640xG0SUB7 40 xG0SUB740 x GOTO 270 

480 GOSUB 640 xGOSUB890s GOSUB880 xGOSUB640s GOTO270 

490 GOSUB 640xGOSUB890xG0SUB640 xGOT0270 

500 A-C/2 xG6-1x GOSUB840 x GOSUB640X GOSUB700 x GOSUB700 x GOSUB640 s G6=0 xG0SUB8 4 
0XGOTO270 

510 GOSUB640:GOSUB690xA-C/21GOSUB790XG6-0xGOSUBl600:GOTO270 

520 G6-lXGOSUB840 xA-C/2 XGOSUB6 40:A- C*.7 5xGOSUB700 xA-C/4X GOSU&650 

521 A-C/2: GOSUB640 xA-C/4lG6-0 x G0SUB8 40 x G0SUB7 10 : A-C x GOTO270 
530 GOSUB640XGOSUB690 x A-C/2xGOSUB640:G6=0 xGOSUB80 5:GOT0270 
540 GOSUB640 x GOSUB690 s A=C/2 s G0SUB640 x G6-0x GOSUB80 5x GOTO270 

550 G6*2x GOSUB1800xA-C/2 xGOSUB 770xA«CxG0SUB650xA-C/2:GOSUB 760xG6=3 

551 G0SUB1800 xGOT0270 

552 GOSUB770xGOSUB6 50 xA-C/2XG0SUB7601G6-3:GOSUB 1800XGOTO270 
560 GOSUB780:G OSUB640 xGOSUB780sGOTO270 

570 G6-1xGOSUB1300xA-C/2XG0SUB640xA=Q:G0SUB740xA-C/2:GOSUB640XG0SUB1400x 
GOT0270 

580 GOSUB890 x GOSUB880 XGOTO270 

585 G6-1xGOSUBl600xA-C/2XGOSUB790XA-CXGOSUB690XA-C/2XGOSUB640XG6-0XGOSUB 
1400x G0T027 0 

590 G6-1xGOSUBl300:A-C/2XG0SUB640xA-CXGOSUB880iGOSUB890XA-C/2XGOSUB640 

591 G0SUB1400XGOTO270 

595 G6®1XGOSUB80 5:A-C/2 XGOSUB640:A-C x G0SUB650:A-C/2:GOSUB640:G6-0 

596 GOSUB805xGOTO270 
600 GOSUB900XGOTO270 

605 GOSUB780:G0SUB780 XGOSUB640XGOTO270 

610 G6-0 xGOSUB960 x GOSUB800 xG6-1:GOSUB960tGOTO270 

615 A-C/2x G6-1x G0SUB840:GOSUB640 s G0SUB6 50:G0SUB6 50 x G0SUB760 x G6-3 x G0SUB18 
00XGOTO270 

620 GOSUB920 x GOTO27 0 

621 A-C/2:G6=4xG0SUBl800XGOSUB760XA-CXG0SUB650xA-C/2sGOSUB770xG6-1xGOSUB 
1800 SGOTO270 

625 GOSUB700XGOSUB650 xA-C/2xGOSUB640x G6-0 XGOSUB80 5x GOTO270 

630 FORX- lTOC*3 x PRI NTx NEXTX 

631 GOTO270 

635 GOSUB790:G0SUB710xGOSUB640:GOTO270 

640 FORY-lTOAsPRINTTAB(S);xFORX-1 TO10xPRINTGS;xNEXTX 

641 PRINT!NEXTY 

642 RETURN 

645 F0RX-C/2TO1STEP-1:PRINTTABC S+X )t x FORY-1 TO 4*L-X:PRINTG4( 1>;x NEXTY 

646 PRINTxNEXTX 

647 RETURN 
650 IF A<ITHENA-1 

670 FORX-1TOAx PRINTTABC S)iG4/*GS;HS;HS;G$;GS;HS;HJ;G$;GtxNEXTX 

671 RETURN 

690 FORX-1 TOAx PRInttabc4*l+S);gs;gsjh*;hs;gj;gsxNEXTX 

691 RETURN 

700 FORX- 1TOAxPRINTTABC S);G 4;G 4i: PRINTTABC S+8*L> ; G 1J G Sx NEXTX 

701 RETURN 

710 IF X<1THENA-1 

711 F0RX«lT0AxPRINTTABC4*L*S);G4;G4:NEXTX 

712 RETURN 


740 FORX-1TOASPRINTTABCS)JG4;G4:NEXTX 
746 RETURN 

7 50 FORX-ITOA:PRINTTABC S>;GS;GS/GJ;GSxNEXTX 
756 RETURN 

760 FORY-1 TOA: PRINTTABC S ) ; G S) G S; G $; G iS G 4; G 4; H S; HS; G 4) G Sx NEXTY 
766 RETURN 

770 FORX-1 TOA x PRI NTTABC S ) ; G 4; G 4; H 4; H4; G 4; G 4,* G 4; G 45 G 45 G 4: NEXTX 
776 RETURN 

780 FORX-1T0AxPRINTTABC8*L+S);G45G4xNEXTX 
786 RETURN 

790 FORX- 1 TOAx PRINTTABC 4*L+S ) ; G 45 G 45 G 45G 4iG 4; G 4x NEXTX 
796 RETURN 

800 FORX- ITOA: PRI NTTABC S ) ; G 4/' G 4J G $; G 4; G 4; G 4: N EXTX 

801 RETURN 

805 IFG6-1THENG7-C/2:G9--lxG8=l:GOTO810 

806 G7«1:G9«1XG8-C/2 

810 F0RX-G7T0G8STEPG9:I FA1-82THENPRINTTABCS >;:G0T0812 

811 PRINTTABC S+X)I 

812 F0RY-1T02:I FA1-82THENIFY-1THENK9-X:G0T0814 

813 K9«2*X 

814 F0RZ*1T05*L-K9:PRINTG SC 1)1xNEXTZ 

820 IFX>3THEN950 

821 V-X 

830 PRINTH4C2*V) 5 ” ”5 xNEXTY 
832 PRINTxNEXTX 
834 RETURN 

840 IFG6*!THENG7-C/2xG8-l:G9*-1XG0T0842 

841 G7-lxG8«C/2:G9*l 

842 FORX-37TOG8STEPG9 x PRINTTABC S+X)1:FORY-1TO10*L-2*XxPRINTG4C1);xNEXTY 

843 PRINTxNEXTX 

844 RETURN 

860 IFR>LTHENG6-L*4xG7-lXG0T0865 

861 G7 *INTCL/R+ »5)xG6-C*2*L/R 

865 FORX-1 TOG6STEP37:PRINTTABCS+4*L-X)5G45G 45TAB(S+4*L+X>5 G45G4:NEXTX 
871 RETURN 

880 FORX-0TO6*LSTEP 6*L/ClPRINTTABCX+S)5G45G4)G4;G$XNEXTX 

881 RETURN 

890 FORX«6*LTO0STEP-6*L/C:PRINTTAB(X+S)5GS5G45G45 G4:NEXTX 

891 RETURN 

900 FORX-0TO7*LSTEPC14*L)/CC*6):PRINTTABCX+S)5G45G45G$5 
91 0 PRI NTTABC 7 *L-X+S) ; G 4/* G 41G 4s NEXTX 

911 RETURN 

912 FORX-1 TOC/2:PRINTTABC S);G 4;G4;:PRINTTABCS + 8*L);G45xFORY-1TOXx PRINTG 4 
Cl )/* xNEXTY 

913 PRINTxNEXTX 

914 RETURN 

920 FORX=0TO7*LSTEP(7*L)/CC*3):PRINTTA8CS)5G45G4;TABCX+S)5G45G45G45 

930 PRINTTAB(8*L+S)5G4JG$xNEXTX 

931 RETURN 

940 FORX«1TOA*3 xPRINTs NEXTX 

941 RETURN 

950 FORW-1TOX-3SPRINT” ”;xNEXTV 

951 V-3XG0T0 830 

960 IFG6- 1 THENG7-4*Lx G8-7*LxG9-4*L/Cx G0T0962 ZZZZ 

961 G7-7*LxG8-4*L:G9-FIX(-4*L/C) - 

962 F0RX-37T0G8STEPG9xPRINTTABCX+S)5G45G45G4:NEXTX 

963 RETURN ZZZZ 

980 DATA””/” ”/” ”/” ”/” ” 

990 FORX-1T0C*3 x PRINT x NEXTX I Z Z Z 

1000 STOP Z Z Z Z 

1300 FORX-C/2TO1 STEP-1xIFG6-1THENPRINTTABC S+X)/ XGOTO1304 
1302 PRINTTABCS); "’HI!** 

1304 FORY-1 TO!0*L-Xx PRINTG4C1);xNEXTY 

1305 PRINTxNEXTX 

1306 RETURN 

1400 FORX-1T0C/2:IFG6-1THENPRINTTABCS+X)5xGOTOl403 

1402 PRINTTABCS); - 

1403 FORY-1TO10*L-X:PRINTG4(I)5 xNEXTY ZZZZ 

1404 PRINTxNEXTX ZZZZ 

1405 RETURN - 

1500 RESTORE:F0RJ8-1T06:READH4CJ8)XNEXTJ8 

1501 RETURN 

1600 IFG6-0THEN37-1xG8-C/2xG9-lXGOTO1602 

1601 G7-C/2xG8-l:G9»-1 

1602 F0RX-G7T038STEPG9:PRINTTABC 4*L+X*S)5xFORY-1T06*L-2*XxPRINTG4C1);:NE 
XTY 

1603 PRINTxNEXTX 

1604 RETURN 

1800 IFG6/2-INTCG6/2)THENG7-C/2xG8=!XG9--1XG0T01812 

1801 G7-1:G8-C/2xG9-l 

1812 F0RX-G7T0G8STEPG9:IFG6<»2THENG4*0xG5=4*LxGOSUBl820:G0SU81830:GOTOl8 

60 

1814 G4=8*L:G5-0xGOSUBl830xGOSUBl820:GOTO 1860 

1820 PRINTTABC S+G4)5G 4)G SIxRETURN 

1830 IFG6-4THENIFA1-50THENPRINTTABCS);G4CX); 

1840 PRINTTABCS+G5*X)5 x FORY-1T06*L-2*Xx PRINTG 4(1);:NEXT Y 

1841 IFA1-71THENF0RY-1TOXxPRINTG4C1);xNEXTY 

1842 RETURN 

1860 PRINTxNEXTX 

1861 RETURN 


CO CM CM C 
CM 01 03 C 
CM 03 CO C 
CM CM 01 C 
03 03 03 C 
03 03 03 C 


03 03 
CO 03 03 
O) 03 03 
03 03 03 
03 03 CO 
03 CO 03 
03 03 03 
03 03 03 
03 03 03 
03 03 03 < 
01 03 03 
03 03 03 ' 
03 03 03 ' 
03 03 03 ' 
01 03 03 ' 
03 03 03 * 
03 OJ 03 c 


03 03 03 03 01 

03 01 01 03 03 

03 03 01 03 03 

03 03 03 01 03 

03 03 03 03 01 

01 01 03 OJ 03 

01 
03 


03 

01 

J CM 03 CM CM CM 
J 03 03 03 03 03 
J 03 01 03 OJ 03 
3 01 03 03 03 03 
3 03 03 03 03 03 
J 03 03 03 01 03 


01 

01 01 
03 03 01 
03 03 01 
03 01 03 
03 03 03 
03 03 01 
03 03 03 
03 01 01 
03 03 01 
03 03 03 
01 01 03 
03 01 03 
03 03 03 
03 01 03 
03 03 03 
03 03 
03 


10103010301010105 

10103010303030101 

10303010103030103 

0303030103030303 

0301010101010301 

0101030303010101 


oo co co co co co 
co co co co co co 
CO CO CO CO CO CO 
CO CO CO CO CO CO 
CO CO CO CO CO CO 
CO CO CO CO CO CO 


CO co co 
co 


co co 

CO CO 

co co 

CO CO 
CO CO 
co CO 


CO 

CO 

CO co CO 
CO CO CO 

co co co 

CO 


CO CO CO CO CO CO 
CO CO CO CO CO co 
CO CO CO CO CO CO 
CO CO CO CO CO CO 

co co co co co co 

CO CO CO CO CO CO 


CO 
CO 
CO CO CO 

co co co 


CO 

co co 
co co co 

co co co 

co co n 

CO 

CO 

CO CO 
CO CO CO 

CO CO CO 

CO CO CO 
CO co 


•ST sr <7 

sr sr sr 
^ 

CT 7 CJ ^ 
CJ ^ C ^ 

<i sr sr sr 
^ <T 

<3 cr cj >r 
sr 4- sr * 
sr sr -7 sr 
■a 1 sr -3 -7 
■ST ST sr 
sr -g 1 sr sr 
■7 <3 ^ 

<r -g 1 ^ 

sr sr <7 * 

•=» -T 

cjccxcr 


•ST ^ CT ST <7 

sr sr sr sr 

ST ST ^ -T ^ 
ST ST -T ST -T 
*T ST ^ ST jy 

ST ST ST -ST -T 

■T 

ST 

sr 

« 

sr 

5 

ST 

■T 

sr 


sr sr SJ 
■T ST SJ 
•T >T •T 
sr ST ST 

sr ST sr 

ST ^ ST 
ST ST ST 
•T sr ST 
ST ST ST 
ST -T ST 
■T sr ST 
ST -T sr 
-T ST sr 

sr sr sr 
ST sr ST 
ST ST T 1 
-T ST sr 
ST sr sr 
ST -T ST 
ST sr sr 
ST sr sr 

sr sr sr 
ST sr sr 
ST ST 
ST sr sr 
< sr >r 

^ ST ST 

s? sr •? 

ST ST ^ 
<T ST sr 


in m tn 
in m in 
in in in 
m in in 
in in tn 
m in in 
m m m 
m in m 
m m in 
in in m 
in in m 
m in m 
in in in 
in m in 
in m in 
m m in 
in in in 
in in in 


m in m m 
in m in in 
in m m m 
in in in in 
in in m in 
m in m m 
in 
m 


in in in in in 
m m in m in 
in m m m in 
m in m in in 
m in in m m 
in in tn in in 


in 

in 

in m in in 
in in in in 
m in m in 
in in in m 
in in in m 
m m in m 


in in in 
in in in 
m m m 
m m in 
in in in 
in in m 


in in in m 
m m in m 
in in in m 
in in in in 
in in in m 
in in in in 


m m m 
in m m in 
in in in m m 
m in m in tn 
m in m in in 
in m in m m 
m m m in 
in m m m 
in in in tn 
m m in m 
in in m in 
in in in in 
in in in in m 
m m in in in 
in in m m in 
in m in in m 
m in in in 
m tn m 


‘O iO co 
\0 -o \0 vO 

\Q \{) \Q \Q 

\£> \0 vO 

\£) O O vO vO 

'O vO vO vO 

cO vO vO iO 
0*0 0(0 
o o o o 

VO vO vO 'O 
\0 lO <0 lO 
NO 'O 'O lO 
'O 'O vO \0 'O 
'O 'O vO O vO 
O 'O O 'C 'O 
O \0 vO ■O 
vO vO O vO 
vO 'O \0 \0 •£> 
vO iO vO vO 
no NO vO 'O 

oooo 

'O \Q \0 \0 
<0 vO vO >0 
vO vO \0 cO 
vO nO vO vO vO 
vD \D vO vO 'O 
vO 'O O O y O 
^ 'O 'O O 'O 
O VO NO VO 

o o o 


\Q vO vO vO >0 vO vO 

O vO 'O 'O cO vO nO 

o o o o o o o 

'O 'O vO NO cO nO nO 

vO vQ vQ vO sO 'O 

o o o o o o o 


\D vO »0 
vO vO vO 
•O 'O \0 
'C yO \0 
'O so O 
•O VO O 


>0 0 0 
o o o 
o o o 
o o o 
o o o 
o o o 


o o 

o o o 

oooo 

oooo 

oooo 

oooo 

oooo 

oooo 

oooo 

oooo 

oooo 

oooo 

oooo 

oooo 

oooo 

oooo 

o o o 

o o 


85 














Another new game from Creative Computing 


LEM 


Author: Unknown 

Modified by: Bill Cotter, Pittsfield, Mass. 

Language: BASIC (Honeywell 600/6000) 

Description: The user is put at the controls of yet 
another Lunar Module. The first task is to pick the 
initial conditions—speed, etc. This lets the user pro¬ 
gress in a learning fashion; there is no random 
factoring involved. 

Factors to be considered: 

(1) Landing speed—land harder than 3 meters/sec 
and that’s it. 

(2) Moving too fast over the terrain causes you 
to flip when you land. 

(3) Your engines will blow up if used to the limit. 

Suggestions: Improve lines 2080-2250 (the landing 
plot). 


Program 
li sum <a 


100 PRINT "THIS IS A LUNAR LANDING PROGRAM. 

110 PRINT "DO YOU WISH INSTRUCTIONS"I 
120 INPUT VS 
130 IF V$*"NO" GOTO 330 
140 PRINT "THIS IS THE LANDING ZONE." 

ISO PRINT TAB(10)1"~ "?TAB(12)I "Y AXIS (♦)" 

160 FOR 1*1 TO 4 
170 PRINT TAfcK 10)1"!" 

1«0 NEXT I __ 

190 PRINT "-+-> X AXIS < + >" 

200 FOR 1=1 TO 5 
210 PRINT TAB(10)I J, !» 

220 NEXT I 

230 PRINT "THE POSITIVE Z AXIS IS OUT OF TIE PAPER" 

240 PRINT "YOU ARE TRYING TO'LAND ON THE CROSS." 

250 PRINT "YOU PAVE CONTROL OF YOUR VERTICALCZ), HORIZONTAL(Y)," 
260 PRINT "AND TRANSVERSE(X) VELOCITIES. YOU ALSO HAVE THE " 

270 PRINT "ADDITIONAL ABILITY TO CONTROL TFE LENGTh OF TIME OF » 

280 PRINT "BURN. YOU WILL SUPPLY ALL INITIAL DATA." 

290 PRINT "ALL UNITS ARE METRIC." 

300 PRINT 

310 PRINT "REMEMBER IF YOU RUN OUT OF FUEL THATS IT." 

320 PRINT 

330 PRINT "WHAT IS TIE INITIAL ALTITUDE"! 

340 INPUT A3 

350 PRINT "WHAT IS TIE INITIAL VERTICAL VELOCITY (DOWN IS +)»! 
360 INPUT V6 

370 PRINT "WHAT IS THE DISTANCE Y"l 
380 INPUT D4 

390 PRINT "WHAT IS Y VELOCITY"! 

400 INPUT V4 

410 PRINT "WHAT IS TFE DISTANCE X"! 

420 INPUT DS 

430 PRINT "WIAT IS TIE X VELOCITY"! 

440 INPUT VS 

450 PRINT "WHAT IS TIE MAXIMUM BURN RATE"! 

460 INPUT M 

470 PRINT "WPAT IS YOUR FUEL CAPACITY"! 

480 INPUT F3 

490 PRINT "WHAT IS TIE GRAVITATIONAL CONSTANT"! 

500 INPUT G 

510 PRINT "WHAT IS TIE NAME OF YOUR SHIP"! 

520 INPUT N1 $ 

530 PRINT 

540 PRINT "CONTROL TO "Nl$" COMMENCE LANDING." 

550 GO SUB 1900 

560 LET V=V6 

570 LET V I=V4 

580 LET V2=V5 

590 LET T=0 

600 LET F=F3 

610 LET A=A3 

620 LET Dl=D4 

630 LET D2=D5 

640 LET T3=T3+T 

650 GOSUB 2080 

660 PRINT "TIME ="T3"SEC.» 

670 PRINT "ALT="A" METERS V=»V" METERd/SEC" 


680 PRINT "DIST. 
690 PRINT "DIST. 


X=»D2"METERS. V= 
Y-"DI"METERS. V* 
700 PRINT "FUEL="F J, UNITS" 

710 PRINT "TIME INTERVAL"! 

720 INPUT T 

730 PRINT "VERTICAL(Z) BURN"! 

740 INPUT B 

750 PRINT "XHAuSVERSECX) BURN"! 


"V2"METERS/SEC" 

VI‘'METEHS/5EC" 


760 INPUT B2 
770 LET b2=-B2 

780 PRINT " HORIZONTAL (Y) BURN"! 

790 INPUT BI 

800 LET b l=-8I 

810 PRINT 

820 GOTO 1340 

830 LET FI=F 

840 LET AI=A 

850 IF F<=0 GOTO 1190 

860 LET A=A-V*T-((G-8)*T)/2 

870 IF A<=0 GOTO 910 

880 LET V=V+(G-B)*T 

890 GO SUB 2010 

900 GO TO 640 

910 LET G1=G-B 

920 LET TI=((-2*V)+S0R(ABS<4*V~2+8*G*A1)))/(2*U) 

930 LET v=V+(Gl*TI) 

940 GOSUB 2010 
950 LET T4=T3+T1 
960 IF V<3 GOTO 990 

970 PRIwT "AT T=»T4" THE "Nl$» CRASHED WITH A DESCENT »! 

980 GOTO 1000 

990 PRINT "AT T="T4"THE "Nl$" LANDED WITH A DESCENT 
1000 PRINT "VELOCITY OF"V"M/SEC" 

1010 LET R=3UR(V1~2+V^2) 

1020 IF H>5 GOTO 1050 

io3o print "wm a horizontal velocity of "R"m/sec» 

1040 GOTO 1080 
1050 LET P9=1 

1060 PRINT "AND FLIPPED OVER WITH A HORIZONTAL VELOCITY OF"R»M/SEC" 

1070 LET P9=I 

1080 PRINT "TFE LANDING POINT WAS AT ("D2","D1")" 

1090 LEI D=SQR(DI~2+D2"2) 

1100 IF K<=5 GOTO 1140 

1110 PRINT D"METERS FROM TIE LANDING SITE." 

1120 GOTO 1790 

1130 IF P9=I GOTO 1790 

1140 IF D>100 GOTO I 170 

1150 PRINV "BEAUTIFUL "N1S" YOU WERE "D"METEWS FROM THE LANDING SITE" 
1160 GOTO 1790 

1170 PRINT "GOOD LANDING "NIS". BUT YOU WERE "D"METERS OFF" 

1180 GQTC 1790 

1190 LET T=F1/(ABS(B)+ABS(B1)+ABS(B2)) 

1200 LET A=A-( V*((G—B)/2)) 

1210 LET V=V+(G—B) 

1220 LET TI=((-2*V)+SUH(4*V~A+8*AI*G))/(2*G) 

1230 LET V=V+G*Tl 

1240 GOSUB 2010 

1250 LET DI=Dl+VI*(TI-T) 

1260 LET D2=D2+V2*(TI-T) 

1270 IF V<3 GOTO 950 
1280 LET T4=T3+T1 

1290 PRINT "TIE "NI$iN2" CRASHED AT T="T4"SEC AT TFE POINT ("D2","DI")" 
1300 LET R=SQR(Vr2+V2"2) 

1310 PRINT "WITH A DOmNWARD VELOCITY "V"AND A FORWARD VELOCITY"R 
1320 PRINT "CRASH DUE TO PILOT ERROR (THE IDIOT RAN OUT OF FUEL)" 

1330 GOTO 1790 
1340 IF ABS(B)<=M GOT01400 
1350 IF b<0 GOTO 1380 
1360 LET b=M 
1370 GOTO 1390 
1380 LET d*-M 
1390 LET Z=Z+1 

1400 IF ABS(BI)<=M GOTO 1460 
1410 IF Bl<0 GOTO 1440 
1420 LET B1=M 
1430 GOTO 1450 
1440 LET B1=-M 
1450 LET Z1=ZI+1 
1460 IF ABS(82)<=M GOTO 1520 
1470 IF B2<0 GOTO 1500 
1480 LET b2=M 
1490 GOTO 1510 
1500 LET B2=-M 
1510 LET Z2*Z2+1 

1520 LET F=F-((ABS(B)+ABS(BI)+ABS(B2))*T) 

1530 IF Z=l GOTO 1600 
1540 IF Z=2 GOTO 1780 
1550 IF Zl=l GOTO 1660 
1560 IF Z1=2 GOTO 1780 
1570 IF Z2=l GOTO 1720 
1580 IF 22=2 GOTO 1780 
1590 GOTO I 770 
1600 IF 8=0 GOTO 1550 
1610 LET E=E-1 
1620 IF E=0 GOTO 1780 
1630 GOSUB 1880 

1640 PRINT "VERTICAL ENGINE WILL bLOw IN"E" BURNS" 

1650 GOTO 1550 
1660 IF d1=0 GOTO 1570 
1670 LET EI=EI-1 
1680 IF El=0 GOTO 1780 
1690 GOSUB 1880 

1700 PRINT "HORIZONTAL ENGINE WILL bLOw IN"E1" BURNS" 

1710 GOTO Id/O 
1720 IF b2=0 GOTJ 1770 
1730 LET E2=E2-I 
1740 IF E2=0 GOTO 1780 
17 DO GOSUB 1880 

i/6o pRinT "Transverse engine will blow in"E2 " burns" 

1770 GOTO 840 



86 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 










21 


r/ao gosub 1990 

1790 PRInT 

IbOO PRINT "WOULD YOU LIKE TO ThY TO CRASI IT AGAIN STUPID"! 
IblO INPUT V$ 

Ifa20 IP V$=»NO'«GOTO 1870 

1830 PRINT "SAME INITIAL VALUES"! 

Ifa40 INPUT V$ 

1850 IP V$="YES" GOTO 530 
I860 GOTO 320 
1870 STOP 
1880 PRINT " "! 

1890 RETURN 
1900 LET T3=0 

1910 LET Z=0 

1920 LET Zl=0 

1930 LET Z2=0 

1940 LET E=11 

1950 LET H1=11 

1960 LET E2=11 

1970 LET P9=0 

1980 RETURN 

I 990 PRINT "BANG! ! !!!!!!!" 

2000 RETURN 

2010 LET V7=V1-Bl*T 

2020 LET Dl=DI+!VI*T) + !T*!V1-V7))/2 

2030 LET V8=V2-B2*T 

2040 LET D2=D2+!V2*T)+(T*!V2-V8))/2 

2050 LETVI=V7 

2060 LET V2=V8 

2070 RETURN 

2080 IP A>100 GOTO 2250 
2090 IF D2>100 GOTO 2250 
2100 IF D1>I 00 GOTO 2250 
2110 LET 02=INTCD2/I0)+I0 
2120 LET U1 =-INT!D1/20)+5 
2130 PRINT "T="T3 
2140 FOR 1=1 TO 11 
2150 IF I<>0J GOTO 2210 
2160 IF 1=6 GOTO 2190 

2170 PRINT TAB(10)1"!"!TAB(Q2)!"X ALTITUDE="A 
2180 GOTO 2240 

2190 PRINT "-+-"!TAb(Q2)!"X ALTITUDE="!A 

2200 GOTO 2240 
2210 IF 1=6 GOTO 2230 
2220 GOTO 2240 

2230 PRINT »-+-•• 

2240 NEXT I 
2250 RETURN 
2260 END 


T= 

-+-X ALTITUDE* 75.9 

TIME = 21 SEC. 

ALT* 75.9 METERS V* 5.590999 METERS/SEC 
DI5T. X* 31.3 METERS. V* -.4 METERS/SEC 
DIST. Y* -10 METERS. V=-5.9604o*-08 ;4ETERS/SEC 
fuel* M50.6 units 

TIME INTERVAL ?I 0 
VERTICALCZ) BURN ?.5 
TRANSVERSE(X) BURN VO 
HORIZONTAL (Y) BURN ?0 


T* 31 


-+-X ALTITUDE* 19.40001 

TIME * 31 SEC. 

ALT* 19.40001 MeTERS V* 0.599999 METERS/SEC 

DIST. X* 27.3 METERS. V= -.4 METERS/SEC 

DIST. Y* -10 METERS. V=-5.96046e-08 METERS/SEC 

FUEL* 1151.6 UNITS 

TIME INTERVAL ?1 

VHRTICAL(Z) BURN ?5 

T.RANSVF.RSE(X) BURN 7-1 

HORIZONTAL (Y) BURN ?0 


T* 32 

-+-x ALTITUDE* 15.00001 

TIME = 32 SEC. 

ALT* 15.00001 METERS V* 2.199999 METERS/SEC 

DIST. X= 27.4 METERS. V* -1.4 METERS/SEC 

DIST. Y= -10 METERS. V=-5.9o046e-08 MtTERS/SEC 

FUEL* 1145.6 UNITS 

TIME INTERVAL ?2 

VERTICAL(Z) BURN ?.5 

T.RANSVErSE(X) BURN ?0 

HORIZONTAL (Y) BURN VO 


T= 34 


-+- X ALTITUDE* 10.50001 

TIME = 34 SEC. 

ALT= 10.50001 METERS V* 2.399999 METERS/SEC 

DIST. X= 24.6 METERS. V= -1.4 METERS/SEC 

DIST. Y* -10 METERS. V=-5.96046e-08 METERS/SEC 

FUEL* 114.4.6 UNITS 

TIME INTERVAL ?2 

VERTICAL(Z) BURN ?.7 

TRANSVERSE(X) BURN V.7 

HORIZONTAL (Y) BURN VO 


SAMPLE Ron | 


THIS IS A LUNAR LANDING PROGRAM. 

DO YOU NISH INSTRUCTIONS ?N0 
WHAT IS THE INITIAL ALTITUDE ?600 

WHAT IS THE INITIAL VERTICAL VELOCITY (DOWN IS +) 725 

WHAT IS THE DISTANCE Y 7200 

WHAT IS Y VELOCITY 7-10 

WHAT IS THE DISTANCE X 725 

WHAT IS THE X VELOCITY 71 

WHAT IS THE MAXIMUM BURN RATE 750 

WHAT IS YOUR FUEL CAPACITY 71200 

WHAT IS THE GRAVITATIONAL CONSTANT 7.6 

WHAT IS THE NAME OF YOUR SHIP 7AQUARIUS 

CONTROL TO AQUARIUS COMMENCE LANDING. 

TIME * 0 SEC. 

ALT* oOO METERS V= 25 METERS/SEC 
DIST. X= 25 METERS. V= I METERS/SEC 

DIST. Y* 200 METERS. V* -10 METERS/SEC 
FUEL* 1200 UNITS 
TIME INTERVAL 75 
VERTICAL(Z) BURN 70 
TRANSVEHSE(X) BURN 7-.2 
HORIZONTAL (Y) BURN 70 


T- 36 

-+-x ALTITUDE* 5.800013 

TIME = 36 SEC. 

ALT* 5.800013 METERS V* 2.199999 METERS/SEC 

DIST. X* 20.4 METERS. V=-l.49012e-08 METERS/SEC 

DIST. Y* -10 METERS. V*-5,9604oe-08 METERS/SEC 

FUEL* 1141.* UNITS 

TIME INTERVAL 72 

VERTICAL(Z) BURN 7.8 

TRANSVERSE!X) BURN 70 

HORIZONTAL (Y) BURN ?U 

T* 38 

-+- x ALTITUDE* 1.600014 

TIME = 38 SEC. 

ALT* 1.600014 METERS V= 1.799999 METERS/SEC 

DIST. X* 20.4 METERS. V=-1.49012e-08 METERS/SEC 

DIST. Y* -10 METERS. V*-5.96046e-06 METERS/SEC 

HJEL* 1140.2 UNITS 

TIME INTERVAL 72 

VERTICAL!Z) BURN 7.7 

TRANSVERSE!X) BURN 70 

HORIZONTAL !Y) BURN 70 

AT T= 38.78595 THE AQUARIUS LANDED WITH A DESCENT VELOCITY OF 
1.721405 M/SEC 

WITH A HORIZONTAL VELOCITY OF 6.l4391e-08 M/SEC 
THE LANDING POINT WAS AT ! 20.4 , -10 ) 

BEAUTIFUL AQUARIUS YOU WERE 22.71915 METERS FROM THE LANDING SITE 
WOULD YOU LIKE TO TRY TO CRASH IT AGAIN STUPID 7N0 


TIME * 5 SEC. 

ALT* 473.5 METERS V= 28 METERS/SEC 

DIST. X* 32.5 MEfERS. V* 0 METERS/SEC 

DIST. Y* 150 METERS. V* -10 METERS/SEC 

FUEL* 1199 UNITS 

TIME INTERVAL 710 

VERTICAL(Z) BURN 70 

TRANSVERSE!X) BURN 70 

HORIZONTAL !Y) BURN 70 


TIME * 15 SEC. 

ALT* 190.5 METERS V= 34 METERS/SEC 
DIST. X* 32.5 METERS. V* 0 METERS/SEC 
DIST. Y* 50 METERS. V* -10 METERS/SEC 
FUEL* 1199 UNITS 
TIME INTERVAL 72 
VERTICAL!Z) BURN 710 
TRANSVERSE!X) BURN ?-.2 
HORIZONTAL !Y> BURN 72 


TIME * 17 SEC. 

ALT* 131.9 METERS V* 15.2 METERS/SEC 

DIST. X* 32.9 METERS. V= -.4 METERS/SEC 

DIST. Y= 26 METERS. V= -6 METERS/SEC 

FUEL* 1174.6 UNITS 

TIME INTERVAL 74 

VERTICALS) BURN 7j33 

TRANSVERSE!X) BURN 70 

HORIZONTAL < Y) BURN V1.5 


























Another new game from Creative Computing 


TWO TO TEN 


Two-to-Ten is a game of chance played with a 
special deck of cards with only the cards 2-10. 
The game is similar to blackjack in that you are 
drawing cards and trying to come as close as 
possible to a goal number (chosen at random 
before each round) without going over it. You 
must come within a certain number of points of 
the goal number determined by a "lucky-limit" 
card. The catch to the game is that you are not 
given the exact value of the goal number but rather 
a clue that is only within 15% of the goal. 

Can you think of a way to make Two-to-Ten 
more interesting? Perhaps playing it against the 
computer as an opponent? Let's hear your ideas! 

I'm embarrassed to say that I don't remember 
who originally gave me Two-to-Ten, but if the 
author will drop a line, I'll credit him or her in the 
next issue. — DHA 


RUNNH 


SAAAPLE RUM 


WELCOME TO THE GAME TWO-TO-TEN THE NAME COMES FROM THE 
SPECIAL "DECK OF CARDS" USED. THERE ARE NO FACE CARDS - ONLY 
THE CARDS 2-ID. THIS GAME IS EASY AND FUN TO PLAY IF YOU 
UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU ARE DOING SO READ THE INSTRUCTIONS 
CAREFULLY. 

AT THE START OF THE GAME YOU BET ON WINNING. TYPE IN ANY 
NUMBER BETWEEN 0 AND 200 RSTS THEN PICKS A RANDOM NUMBER 
YOU ARE TO REACH BY THE SUM TOTAL OF MORE CARDS CHOSEN. 
BECAUSE OF THE RARE CHANCE OF YOU GETTING TO THAT NUMBER 
EXACTLY; YOU ARE GIVEN AN ALLOWANCE CARD. THE OBJECT OF 
THE GAME IS TO GET THE TOTAL OF CARDS WITHIN THE MYSTRY 
NUMBER WITHOUT GOING OVER. 

YOU ARE GIVEN A HINT AS TO WHAT THE NUMBER IS. THIS IS NOT 
THE EXACT NUMBER ONLY ONE CLOSE. ALL YOU DO IN THIS GAME IS 
DECIDE WHEN TO STOP. AT THIS POINT YOUR TOTAL IS COMPARED 
WITH THE NUMBER AND YOUR WINNINGS ARE DETERMINED. 


GOOD LUCK! 


Program 

Listing- 


50 PAINT \PRINT \PRINT 

60 PRINT "WELCOME TO THE GAME TWO-TO-TEN. THE NAME COMES FROM THE" 

70 PRINT 'SPECIAL "DECK OF CARDS" USED. THERE ARE NO FACE CARDS - ONLY* 
80 PRINT "THE CAROS 2-10. THIS GAME IS EA3Y AND FUN TO PLAY IF YOU" 

90 PRINT "UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU ARE DOING SO READ THE INSTRUCTIONS" 

100 PRINT "CAREFULLY." 

110 PRINT "AT THE START OF THE GAME YOU BET ON WINNING. TYPE IN ANY" 

120 PRINT "NUMBER BETWEEN 0 AND 200. RSTS THEN PICKS A RANDOM NUMBER 
130 PRINT "YOU ARE TO REACH BY THE SUM TOTAL OF MORE CARDS CHOSEN." 

140 PRINT "BECAUSE OF THE RARE CHANCE OF YOU GETTING TO THAT NUMBER" 

150 PRINT "EXACTLY, YOU ARE GIVEN AN ALLOWANCE CARD. THE OBJECT OF" 

160 PRINT "THE GAME IS TO GET THE TOTAL OF CARDS WITHIN THE MYSTRY 
170 PRINT "NUMBER WITHOUT GOING OVER." 

180 PRINT "YOU ARE GIVEN A HINT AS TO WHAT THE NUMBER IS. THIS IS NOT" 
185 PRINT "THE EXACT NUMBER ONLY ONE CLOSE. ALL YOU 00 IN THIS GAME IS" 
190 PRINT "DECIDE WHEN TO STOP. AT THIS POINT YOUR TOTAL IS COMPARED" 
195 PRINT "WITH THE NUMBER AND YOUR WINNINGS ARE DETERMINED." 

197 PRINT\PRINT"GOOD LUCK|"\PRINT\PRINT\PRINT 

199 M«20M 

200 RANDOMIZE 
210 D»e\T*0 

215 0«INTC 10*RND(0) )«-25 
220 N*INT(O*RnD(0))*O 
230 R*(INT(15*RND(0))M)/100 
250 3«!NT(?*RND(0)M) 

260 IF S"l THEN E«INT(N-(N*R)) 

265 GOTO 280 
270 E*INT(N*(N*R)) 

280 A«INT(9*RNU(0)+2) 

285 PRINT "PLACE YOUR BET . . . 

290 IF B>M THEN 295 ELSE 300 
295 PRINT "YOU CAN'T BET MORE THAN Y0U»VE G0T|"\GQT0 250 
300 PRINT 'YOUR "LUCKY-LIMIT" CARO IS A'A 

310 PRINT "YOU MUST COME WITHIN"A"WITH0UT GOING OVER TO WIN," 

320 PRINT \PR1NT "HERE WE GOI" 

330 PRINT \PRI NT 
340 D*D*1 

350 C«INT(9*RnD(0)42) 

360 PRINT "CARD #"D«IS A"C". YOU ARE TRYING TO COME NEAR"E 
365 T«T*C 

370 IF T>N THEN 375 ELSE 380 

375 PRINT "YOUR TOTAL IS OVER THE NUMBER"N". AN AUTOMATIC LOSSl" 

377 GOTO 570 

380 PRINT "TOUR TOTAL IS M T". DO YOU WANT TO CONTINUE"! MNPUT 0S\PRINT 

390 IF LEFTCOS,1)«"Y" THEN 330 

410 IF T>*N-A AND T<»N THEN 500 ELSE 550 

500 PRINT "YOU WIN 1 THE NUMBER WAS"N". YOUR GUESS TOTAL WAS"T"WITHIN" 
5l0 PRINT "YOUR LIMIT CARD." 

520 M«M+B 
540 GOTO 600 

550 PRINT "YOU BLEW ITl THE NUMBER WAS"N", OUTSIDE YOUR ALLOWANCE BY"; 
560 PRINT (N-A)-T \PRINT 
570 M«M-B 

600 PRINT "YOU NOW HAVE $"M"IN CASH TO BET IN THE NEXT GAME I" 

610 INPUT "WOULD YOU LIKE TO Pi AY THAT NEXT GAME"IQ$\PRINT 
620 IF LEFTCQJ, n»"Y"THEN 200 
630 PRINT "HOPE YOU HAD FllN" 

999 END 


YOU HAVE $"M"T0 SPEND,"!\INPUT BVPRINT 


PLfiCE VOUR BET . . . VOU HAVE * 200 TO SPEND. ? 50 

VOUR "LUCKY-LIMIT" CARD IS A 5 

VOU MUST COME WITHIN 5 WITHOUT GOING OVER TO WIN. 
HERE WE GO! 


CARD 

i 1 IS A 

10 

VOU ARE TRVING 

TO COME NEAR 5' 

TOUR 

TOTAL IS 

10 

DO 

VOU 

WANT TO 

CONTINUE? VES 

CARD 

# 2 IS A 

4 . 

VOU 

ARE 

TRVING 

TO COME NEAR 54 

TOUR 

TOTAL IS 

14 . 

DO 

VOU 

WANT TO 

CONTINUE? VES 

CARD 

4 3 IS A 

? . 

VOU 

ARE 

TRVING 

TO COME NEAR 54 

TOUR 

TOTAL IS 

21 . 

DO 

VOU 

WANT TO 

CONTINUE? VES 

CARD 

« 4 IS A 

6 . 

VOU 

ARE 

TRVING 

TO COME NEAR 54 

TOUR 

TOTAL IS 

27 . 

DO 

VOU 

WANT TO 

CONTINUE? VES 

CARD 

4 5 IS A 

9 . 

VOU 

ARE 

TRVING 

TO COME NEAR 54 

TOUR 

TOTAL IS 

36 . 

DO 

VOU 

WANT TO 

CONTINUE? VES 

CARD 

# 6IS A 

5 . 

VOU 

ARE 

TRVING 

TO COME NEAR 54 

TOUR 

TOTAL IS 

41 . 

DO 

VOU 

WANT TO 

CONTINUE? VES 

CARD 

4 7 IS A 

5 . 

VOU 

ARE 

TRVING 

TO COME NEAR 54 

TOUR 

TOTAL IS 

46 . 

DO 

VOU 

WANT TO 

CONTINUE? VES 

CARD 

4 8 IS A 

4 . 

VOU 

ARE 

TRVING 

TO COME NEAR 54 

TOUR 

TOTAL IS 

50 . 

DO 

VOU 

WANT TO 

CONTINUE? VES 

CARD 

4 9 IS A 

9 . 

VOU 

ARE 

TRVING 

TO COME NEAR 54 

TOUR 

TOTAL IS 

59 . 

DO 

VOU 

WANT TO 

CONTINUE? NO 


VOU WIN ! THE NUMBER WAS 61 . VOUR GUESS TOTAL 
WAS 59 WITHIN VOUR LIMIT CARD. 

VOU NUW HAVE * 250 IN CASH TO BET IN THE NEXT GAME! 
WOULD VOU LIKE TO PLAV THAT NEXT GAME? NO 

HOPE VOU HAD FUN 


88 


READ V 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 









Creative Computing Feature Review ... 

by Serna Marks 


Learning Alternatives In U.S. Education: Where Student And 
Computer Meet. Beverly Hunter, Carol S. Kastner, Martin L. 
Rubin, and Robert J. Seidel. Educational Technology Publica¬ 
tions, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey 07632. 1975. xvi + 398 pp., 
$14.95. 


Every few years another major study appears on the future of 
computers in education. There was the Rosser Report of the 
National Academy of Sciences in 1966; 1 the Pierce Report of the 
President’s Science Advisory Committee in 1967; 2 the Oettinger 
and Marks report of the Harvard Program on Technology and 
Society in 1969; 3 the Tickton report of the Commission on In¬ 
structional Technology in 1970; 4 the Levien report of a study for 
the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education and the Rand 
Corporation in 1972; 5 The Fourth Revolution , a report and 
recommendations by the Carnegie Commission on Higher 
Education, also in I972; 6 and now a report by Beverly Hunter, 
Carol S. Kastner, Martin L. Rubin and Robert J. Seidel in 1975. 

The latest in this series, published as Learning Alternatives in 
U.S. Education: Where Student and Computer Meet , is based 
on a project performed at the Human Resources Research 
Organization (HumRRO) under a grant from the National 
Science Foundation. The purpose of the project was “to study 
development and dissemination of computer-based learning 
materials in the U.S. and to identify approaches for achieving 
beneficial, nationwide use of computers in education.” 

In the decade since the Rosser Report little has changed in the 
classroom, but a great deal has changed outside of it. The use of 
computers has grown substantially and people's attitudes 
towards them have changed accordingly. We have moved from 
what Levien calls the “parochial era,” during which computer 
usage was expensive and justified for only a narrow class of 
numerical and clerical tasks, to what he calls “a universal era,” in 
which computers are economically accessible for a wide class of 
new and previously infeasible applications. 7 

Before too long computers will be accessible to everyone. 
Today over 13 million people in the U.S. alone own pocket cal¬ 
culators, perhaps the first sign of free and easy access to com¬ 
puter power for all. s Millions more are coming into direct con¬ 
tact with computers through point-of-sale terminals located in 
stores, supermarkets, airline reservation counters and offtrack 
betting parlors; credit cards; cash machines; cash registers; 
digital watches; toys and games; electronic mail; and an ever- 
increasing number of terminals located in schools and colleges, 
libraries, museums, and store-front and community computing 
centers. It is even possible today to build your own computer 
with 4K memory, cassette operating system, alpha-numeric key¬ 
board, and extended Basic for less than $500. By 1985, predicts, 
F.G. “Buck” Rodgers, Corporate Vice President for Marketing 
at IBM, one out of every 100 homes will have a computer 
terminal. Some people think that he is a stodgy pessimist! 

It is the accessibility to computer power, brought about by 
greatly reduced costs and high demand, that is the key to its 
future use. Major changes accompany the use of any new 
medium as it passes from the hands of the few to the hands of the 
many, and the history of technology shows that it is next to im¬ 
possible to predict when a medium is in the hands of the few how 
it will be used in the hands of the many. Yet the authors of 
Learning Alternatives content themselves with describing the 
present and simply extrapolating from today to tomorrow. They 
paint the picture within the frame but fail to consider the 
changing framework in which it’s all happening. 

But first for the good news. The authors do a superlative job 
of telling us where we are. The book is an invaluable source of 
information about what computer-based learning materials are 
available today, where to find them, and what you can do with 
them. The set of references (all twenty-three pages of them)-and 
sources of information listed in the appendices alone arc worth 
the price of the book, and the analyses offered by the authors in 
the first four chapters are clear and insightful. 


The first two chapters, beautifully written by Hunter and 
Seidel, point out the diversity of purposes and activities which 
can be served by technology, and the interdependence of social 
goals, values, educational reform and technology. They pro¬ 
vide many useful distinctions such as the difference between an 
educational innovation designed to be used within the current 
educational structure and one intended to reform it. 

In the third chapter there are many examples of computer- 
based learning materials, arranged by discipline, an excellent 
guide for the person who wants to get started and needs to know 
where to begin. The Decision Guide offered in Appendix 4 will 
help him avoid the mistakes of others by answering some well 
formulated questions about the target situation into which the 
innovation will be introduced, the characteristics and purposes 
of the innovation, and the costs and support necessary to main¬ 
tain it. 

Chapter 4 presents a series of interesting case studies illus¬ 
trating various approaches to the development of computer- 
based learning materials. Although the reader is left to draw his 
own conclusions the authors caution that “Whether you place 
your bets on creative individuals, discipline experts, systematic 
methodology, student or teacher involvement, powerful tech¬ 
nology, multi-disciplinary teams, magnitude of funding, or a 
combination of these, there are no guaranteed outcomes in 
quality or acceptance of the end product, [emphasis added]” 

Now for the bad news. In spite of this cautionary note and the 
statement that “it seems neither useful nor possible to seek 
principles or optimum strategies for development,” the authors 
nevertheless conclude that the major problem in the develop¬ 
ment of quality materials justifying widespread adoption has 
been the ‘ Tack of a coherent plan." They therefore advocate that 
a “coordinated national program” be established with “strategy 
coherence” based on one of five alternative models. All of the 
models involve massive infusions of Federal funds, curriculum 
by committee, and are extentions or combinations of existing 
approaches that certainly have neither proved themselves nor 
given any indication that “bigger is better.” 

Are there no other alternatives? Is there no place else to look 
for authors and distribution mechanisms than within the current 
structures which have proved so unsuccessful to date? 

Perhaps looking at the past uses of computers in the class¬ 
room is not the best way to think about future uses of the com¬ 
puter in education. Perhaps a new viewpoint is necessary. 

Let us consider for a moment some of the changes in the pro¬ 
duction of materials which accompanied another powerful tech¬ 
nology as it moved from the hands of the few to the hands of the 
many, and recall some of the more notable changes that 
occurred when typography released the books from the hands of 
the scribe and the monastery into the hands of the public at 
large. y Until Gutenberg, there were no authors writing for a 
public. The public of Dante and Chaucer was necessarily a small 
group who listened to the poets reciting their verses, Reading 
publics, in our sense of the term, did not exist. The situation then 
was not unlike that of the composer before phonograph, radio 
and LP—the audience for new works was small and select. 

The impact of having computer terminals located in homes, 
libraries, and places of public access, will not simply be to move 
the classroom to a new location but to change the audience and 
the conditions of use. This will happen regardless of anything 
that educators do or don’t do. The use of pocket calculators by 
school children today is a case in point. It happened, and would 
have done so, with or without the approval of the National 
Council of Teachers of Mathematics. 

What can we do then to assure the nationwide, beneficial use 
of computers in education? Let me offer a few suggestions of my 
own. 

First, we must act now to gain the experience needed to make 
intelligent and considered decisions about computer use in 
education. When computer power becomes as freely and easily 
accessible as electric power is today, the question must not be 
“what can we afford to do,” but “what do we want to do.” 


NOV DEC 1 976 


89 






Investments in providing accessibility to computing power in 
our schools should not be viewed as an investment in machines, 
but rather as an investment in the experience to be gained by stu¬ 
dents, faculty and administrators. Long lead times are neces¬ 
sary to prepare for its use. 

Second, we should take the opportunity to rethink every¬ 
thing that we do in education, remembering that the vast range 
of uses to which print has been put in education were not at all 
apparent on the day that Gutenberg set his first line of type. I 
would guess that we haven’t even begun to scratch the surface in 
finding new and imaginative roles for the computer. We must 
look ahead rather than behind; we are at the start of art adven¬ 
ture, not the end. 

Third, we must not consider the computer in isolation, but 
rather view it together with the other communications tech¬ 
nologies which are shaping our lives—radio, broadcast televi¬ 
sion, cable television, home videodisc systems, telephone, 
satellite carriers and the rest. 

And fourth, let us remember that computers alone will not 
bring about change. They need the efforts of imaginative people 
who can try out and demonstrate their ideas in viable settings, 
which are large enough to accurately portray the critical inter¬ 
actions which often fail to appear in small settings and whose 
absence creates misleading results. 

The technology that will allow us to do whatever we want to 
do will soon be at hand. We must be prepared with the visions, 
the insights, and the experience to know what we want to do. 
Learning Alternatives serves a well-defined need. It tells us how 
to begin. 


FOOTNOTES 

1. National Academy of Sciences — National Research Council, Digital Com¬ 
puter Needs in Universities and Colleges, Washington, D.C., 1966. 

2. President’s Science Advisory Committee, Computers in Higher Education, The 
White House, Washington, D.C., 1967. 

3. Oettinger, Anthony G. with Serna Marks, Run, Computer, Run: The 
Mythology of Educational Innovation, Harvard University Press, Cambridge. 
Mass., 1969. 

4. Commission on Instructional Technology, To Improve Learning: A Report to 
the President and the Congress of the United States , U.S. Government Print¬ 
ing Office, 1970. 

5. Levien, Roger E. et. al. The Emerging Technology: Instructional Uses of the 
Computer in Higher Education, McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York, 
1972. 

6. The Fourth Revolution: Instructional Technology in Higher Education , 
McGraw-Hill Book Company. 1972. 

7. Levien, 1972, p. 3. 

8. For those who consider the pocket calculator a toy, let me point out that many 
of the 13 million calculators now in use are equivalent in power to what John 
von Neumann had available to him in 1945 for the entire Manhattan Project. 

9. The ideas here are stated by Marshall McLuhan with respect to the increased 
availability of 8mm film in the schools and appear in 8mm Sound Film and 
Education, Louis Forsdale (ed.). Bureau of Publications, Teachers College, 
Columbia University, New York, 1962. Many of the comments on the value of 
accessibility as a key factor in the usefulness of an educational product were first 
expressed by Louis Forsdale in this volume. 


Edcentric: A Journal of Educational Change , published by The 
Center for Educational Reform, Inc., P.O. Box 10085, Eugene, 
Oregon, 97401, six-issue (one-year) subscription $6.00 for 
individuals, $10.00 for institutions. 

The name says it very succinctly: Edcentric is a journal of 
educational change and criticism, relevant and up-to-date be¬ 
cause it is published and written by people in the schools, for 
people in the schools. The topics covered in the magazine range 
from, well, anything to everything of interest to people who 
believe that schools should treat people as human beings. The 
magazine is aimed at teachers and parents and concerned 
persons who are interested in “working to change education and 
to make changes through education” and sharing their experi¬ 
ences with others. 

Edcentric is rather unusual in that it is put together by an 
editorial collective, the members of which are in a constant state 
of flux. As a consequence, the magazine comes out somewhat 
irregularly (it does come out 37 issues so far, the latest on 
Public Alternative Schools) but it has a certain life and spirit 
that marks Edcentric as a vital force for change and under¬ 
standing. 


CREATIVE 
COMPUTING 
Reviews 


Reviews Editor: Peter 
Kugel, School of Management, 
Boston College, Chestnut Hill, 
MA 02167. 

Readers: Want to be a 
reviewer? Write to the Reviews 
Editor directly. Publishers: 
send materials for review to 
the Reviews Editor. 


A NS COBOL Ruth Ashley. 242 pp. $3.95. John Wiley & Sons, 
Inc. (Wiley Self-teaching guides). New York, 1974. 

Ruth Ashley’s American National Standard COBOL is an 
acceptable self-teaching book and classroom text for those who 
do not have access to a computer terminal and do have previous 
programming experience. A general understanding of program¬ 
ming and flowcharting is assumed. The author displays her 
knowledge of the elementary errors students have when 
beginning to program the most widely used computer language 
in business today. 

Each chapter starts with a list of behavioral objectives and 
proceeds in the standard programmed text method of frames 
followed by multiple choice questions. The answers which 
directly follow the questions are supplemented with detailed and 
clear reasons for those answers. The student is provided with 
strips of COBOL coding forms for writing his or her programs. 
Throughout the book, much attention is given to spelling, 
punctuation, and format as is required in this language. 

The author suggests that students try to complete each of the 
ten chapters in one or two study sessions of 1 to 3 hours each. 
The first chapter is devoted to the different divisions. The final 
question asks the student to write a complete small program. 
The second and third chapters cover MOVE, COMPUTE, GO 
TO, IF and arithmetic operations. The different types of files 
and editing are covered in the next four chapters. Chapter eight 
clearly presents PERFORM options. The last two chapters on 
tables and desk files complete a well planned text for anyone 
who is interested in an inexpensive text for high school or college 
students beginning COBOL. Teachers will find a complete 
lesson plan prepared by a teacher who understands student 
errors. 



Paul A. Chase 
Leicester, MASS. 


NOV DEC 1 976 


John Lees 
Rolla, MO 


90 


[Available from the Creative Computing Book Service. Catalog 
No. 7H. Use order form on inside back cover.] 















YOU CAN DO 
MORE IN THE FUTURE 
WITH THE FUTURIST. 


No one knows exactly what will happen 
tomorrow, but forward-looking experts from many 
professions are making a concerted effort to 
understand and forecast future social and 
technological developments. 

Their forecasts and ideas now are easily and 
conveniently available in THE FUTURIST, an 
exciting bi-monthly magazine that specializes in 
keeping people informed about what may happen 
in the years ahead. By reading THE FUTURIST you 
will learn about forthcoming developments and be 
better prepared to deal successfully with our 
rapidly changing world. 

You will find THE FUTURIST a source of 
valuable ideas for anticipating and adjusting to 
change, making long-range plans, and reaching 


effective decisions in your personal and 
professional life. Enter your subscription now, to 
get your own “window on tomorrow.” 

Recent articles from THE FUTURIST: 

“Anticipatory Democracy” by Alvin Toffler 

“Man-Woman Relationships in the Future” by 
Herbert Otto 

“Architecture Beyond 2000” by Roy Mason 
“The Road to World Harmony” by Jay Forrester 
“Education for a Leisure Society” by Robert Strom 

“Body Pleasure and the Origins of Violence” by 
Jim Prescott 

“The Future of Computer Conferencing” by 
Murray Turoff 


THE FUTURIST 

Dept. L 

4916 St. Elmo Avenue 
Washington, D.C. 20014 • U.S.A. 

Enter my subscription to THE FUTURIST 
for one year at only $12. 

□ Payment enclosed. (I’ll receive an extra 
issue as a bonus.) 

□ Bill me. 

GUARANTEE: I understand that if I'm not 100% 
satisfied with my first issue of THE FUTURIST, I’ll 
let you know within one month and my payment 
will be refunded or my bill cancelled 


Name 



Address 


State 


ZIP 


Occupation 


91 

















Sorting and Sort Systems , Harold Lorin. Addison-Wesley, 
1975. 460 pp., $16.95. 

This book is for experienced programmers who are interested 
in developing or using a sort. It would also be useful to non-pro¬ 
grammers who need to understand the behavior of Sorting 
Systems, since it is one of the most readable texts on sorting in 
the literature with the details of programming left to the 
appendices. The specific sorting methods are covered broadly 
and carefully while recognizing that the ultimate performance of 
algorithms depends on the computer in use. Thus the reader 
comes away with a good intuitive feel for sorting and some 
confidence that, if there were not a good sort available in his sub¬ 
routine library, he could knock off a respectable one in a few 
hours. 

I feel that sorting should be one of the first things taught 
fledgling programmers, even in science-oriented schools or 
departments. Besides its practical value, it is an interesting 
mathematical subject. (No one yet knows how to make a 
SHELLSORT behave optimally. And who would expect that 
the fastest known procedure for reliably putting order into a 
sequence of values involves the generation of random numbers?) 

The only criticism of the present book is that there are no 
exercises. In spite of that, the book ought to be available to any 
teacher of programming, if only because it is stimulating and 
pleasurable reading. 

Not the least attractive feature of the book is the inclusion of 
all the ACM sorting algorithms (in ALGOL) as well as several 
related PL/1 programs. 

L. D. Yarbrough 
Lexington, MA 

^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 

Mechanics . Herbert D. Peckham, Student Lab Book, 32pp, $1. 
Teacher’s Advisor, 40pp. $1. Hewlett-Packard Co., Cupertino, 
Calif., 1972. 

These booklets, in the HP Computer Curriculum Series, are 
intended to help meet the need for computer-oriented problems 
in physics by providing students an opportunity to use the 
computer as a problem solving tool within a particular subject 
matter area. Specifically, this unit is intended as an “enrich¬ 
ment” experience in the field of mechanics. 

There are seven topics: rates, displacements, Newton’s second 
law, half step method, the harmonic oscillator, more com¬ 
plicated forces, and orbital motion. In each section, there is a 
little preparatory explanation, an initial supplied program, and 
several exercises where the student is asked to modify the given 
program to extend or generalize the results. Each section also 
provides at least one advanced programming exercise where the 
student is asked to construct a separate but related program 
from scratch. The Teacher’s Advisor provides program listings 
and sample runs. With only minor adjustments, these programs 
should be adaptable to different computers. 

The author assumes that the student (1) has had algebra and 
some trigonometry, (2) that he already knows how to write a 
simple computer program in BASIC, and (3) that he will have 
access to a computer for at least two hours per week. 

Perhaps the most thorny problem in teaching introductory 
physics is that the student does not have the requisite tools of 
calculus at his disposal. This booklet serves as an example of 
how the computer can help overcome the difficulty. Although 
the words “calculus,” “derivative,” and “integration” are never 
used, nearly all of the exercises here involve calculus by means of 
difference approximations. The student who uses this material 
will accordingly have a much better feeling for calculus when he 
or she studies it analytically. 

The computer enriches the study in other ways. Usingjust one 
program, the student can perform many different experiments 
by making slight modifications to the basic program, and make 
generalizations on the basis of the results. 

The exercises are sequenced so that the student applies what 
he or she has learned in the previous problem to solving the next 
one. This feature provides a strong thread of continuity and 
makes the treatment highly attractive. On the other hand, 
because it does build on previous results and is cumulative, one 
cannot omit any section and pick up a later section. 

Although the exercises, in a “watch me and then imitate, 


modify, and extend” format begin slowly, they quickly become 
challenging in terms of programming skills required. The first 
two sections on rates and displacements involve concepts and 
problems that are simple and straightforward. In section 3, on 
Newton’s second law, the programming begins to get a little 
more involved. Perhaps the author discovered this, for he has 
added an appendix where he looks at the section 3 initial 
program in more detail. There is a flow chart and a line-by-line 
description of what is happening in the program. The reviewer 
agrees that this would be a good time to nail down a few key 
programming skills by looking at a fairly central program. The 
time would be well spent since subsequent exercises are 
somewhat more involved. An average high school physics class 
in my area would find these later exercises moderately difficult. 
Indeed, the author assumes that “students taking “introductory 
physics (in college?) will be quite capable as a group.” 

This unit could be used with a uniformly good high school 
physics class, but as the instructor, I would want to provide 
some additional instruction on the concepts as well as an 
occasional review of programming principles and techniques. It 
would also be useful as a directed individual study project for a 
bright high school senior with some programming experience 
and an available terminal. 

With regard to the pamphlet’s printed format, it would be 
helpful if at least the statements of the exercises could be 
reprinted in the Teacher’s Advisor so that the teacher could 
relate the solution commentary to the problems, and not have to 
refer back and forth between manuals. 

Daniel S. Yates 
Glen Allen, VA 

User’s Guide to Computer Crime, Its Commission, Detection 
and Prevention. Stephen W. Leibholz and Louis D. Wilson, 
Chilton Book Company, Radnor, Pa. 1974. $9.95 

This book comes complete with disclaimer that all the cases of 
theft, fraud, sabotage, and espionage conducted via computer as 
described in the book have actually been comitted and 
discovered. However, the implication to the casual reader is 
clear: There must be more clever people who have not yet been 
discovered! 

Were it not for the fact that the technology is mercifully 
somewhat sketchy and general in places, the User’s Guide to 
Computer Crime could be labelled as hazardous to the health of 
computers. As it stands, it could be a generalized cookbook for 
how to make money, or at least mischief, by manipulating the 
computer. 

Those who are already deeply involved in computer security 
will find nothing new here. But those who had labored under the 
mistaken notion that because the computer is complex, it is also 
safe, can profit from it. The incidents of unauthorized computer 
manipulation make some of our flights of fancy seem positively 
earthbound. The book attempts to move the reader who may be 
responsible for a data processing system from the edge of 
immediate panic to a more positive predisposition to do 
something, perhaps using some of the valuable suggestions 
contained in the latter portions of the book. 

The book has four major divisions: basic problems and case 
histories of various “crimes,” specific measures and general 
operating principles to achieve reasonable protection from 
incidents, methods of auditing and detecting unusual activity 
along with some legal discussion of computer use and abuse, and 
recommendations for user programs of action in accounting and 
legislative realms. The appendices are as revelatory as the book 
itself: A checklist for ensuring data processing operations 
security, a reprint of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, and even the 
reprint of the first of 105 counts in the Equity Funding 
indictment, one of the largest computer-assisted heists in history 
(so far), and the Stanford Research Institute survey of 
programmer ethics. In the latter, of the 55 managers and 
programmers surveyed, 13 thought it was “okay” to attempt to 
log onto a time-sharing service for which they were not 
authorized users. 10 had actually done it. Only 17 thought it was 
illegal. 

Not only is the book worthwhile for anyone who has had 
cause to manage, use or mistrust computers, but it is written in 
an easy, readable style. 

Deanna J. Dragunas 
Wetumpka, AL 


92 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 



ES (jri 


THE BEST OF THE FUTURE 

AVAILABLE HOW... 



There is a new direction in the field of Science Fiction. 

The early period, the time of Gernsback, Burroughs, and robots, 
gave way to the middle period of interstellar travel, Russell, and 
Campbell. Now the new wave of authors, led by the most farsighted 
of the 'old timers', are taking Science Fiction into its young adult¬ 
hood. Experimentation is now mixed creatively with the tested 
craftsmanship of the masters. The great work of the past is now the 
foundation of the future. The best is yet to come, and GALILEO 
is where you'll find it. 

GALILEO is a new science fiction quarterly (destined to be 
monthly) which will be available only through subscription and a 
few selected bookshops around the country. Its cost, at $1.50, will 
reflect the quality of its contents in design, illustration, and most 
importantly, writing. (Subscribers will, of course, benefit from a 
reduced cost per copy). The great names we proudly announce on 
our covers are symbols of the fine works by authors both new and 
established which we will gather together for each voyage to the 
stars. An outstanding crew in every issue. 


Our intention in publishing GALILEO is to pick up where 
editors like John W. Campbell left off. Science Fiction is—or should 
be—quality entertainment AND literature. It is the most important 
literature of our time, or any time. . . . History teaches, science leads 
Our GALILEO offers a vision of mankind's future through the eyes 
of the poet and the scientist. There can be no true appreciation of 
the present, or the past, without the perspective of the future. 


Science and theory are the raw materials,. .what mankind 
might do with them is Science Fiction. GALILEO is the quality 
Science Fiction magazine, the best of the future, available now! 


This is one voyage I don't want to miss. Sign me up for the special 
subscription rate I have checked below. My check is enclosed. 



[ ] 4 issues at $4. (saving $2.) 

[ ] 10 issues $9. (saving $6.) 


m Name: 



■ 

m Street: 

Town: 

First issue premiere 
September 2,1976 

■ 

State: 

mm - _ 

Zip: 

■ 

Send to: GALILEO, 339 Newbury Street, Boston, MA 02115 


























































Security, Accuracy, and Privacy in Computer Systems. James 
Martin, Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J. 1973, $ 19.95 

The savvy professional who wants considerable, sound 
technical detail computer security would do well to invest in 
James Martin’s Security, Accuracy, and Privacy in Computer 
Systems. This book can function either as a reasonably complete 
course in computer security, or as a reference book on specific 
areas. The 600-page length of the book makes reading it more 
than a casual task, but the writing is well done and never gets in 
the way of the information. 

Martin divides his tome into five well-balanced parts, each 
containing information applicable to a range of system types, 
from batch processing to teleprocessing in real-time. These 
major sections are: 

1. Definition of the overall problem 

II. Design of the computer system 

III. Design of physical security 

IV. Design of administrative controls 

V. Design of the legal and social environment 

The book also contains extensive appendices giving 
guidelines for the construction of storage vaults, a checklist 
which relates security vulnerabilities to specific sections of the 
book, and copies of legislation pertaining to privacy. These are 
not currently relevant because the Privacy Act of 1974 (HR. 93- 
579) was passed after this book was issued, and because 
Congress has some firm proposals for legislation to apply to the 
private protection in computer systems. 

James Martin is well-known for his expertise and prolific 
writing in the area of data communications which makes his 
advice and analysis particularly relevant to today’s many 
remotely accessed computer systems. Too often in the past, data 
system protection has meant fire and flood protection. These 
traditional security concerns, as well as those relating to 
personnel management, locks, and print-out disposal are given 
their due. But concerns for data scrambling, communication 
line protection, operating system “glitches,” and other areas 
which are more intimately involved in the technology of modern 
data processing systems are emphasized. 

Deanna J. Dragunas 
Wetumpka, AL 

Scelbi’s Galaxy Game by Robert Findley, 1976, 172 pp. paper, 
$14.95. Scelbi Computer Consulting, 1322 Rear Boston Post 
Road, Milford, CT 06460. 

Scelbi’s First Book of Computer Games by Nat Wadsworth and 
Robert Findley, 1976, 122 pp. paper, $14.95. Scelbi Computer 
Consulting. 

If you own a small 8008 or 8080 based system, you’ll be 
interested in these two new computer game books by Scelbi. The 
games in these books aren’t in Basic or any other high-level 
language, but instead are in assembly language and machine 
code. Extensive documentation is included. 

The object of Galaxy is to travel throughout the galaxy in 
search of alien ships and destroy them in a limited number of 
stardates. You have two types of weapons: torpedoes, and a 
“phasor” (fired by the Starship Enterprise we assume). The 
game is pretty bony—no floating point math, very short 
messages, and some things which will bother Star Trek—excuse 
me. Galaxy purists, but remember, it all fits in 4K! 

The other book, Scelbi’s First Book, contains Space Capture, 
Hexpawn, and Hangman. In Space Capture, played on an 8 by 8 
grid, you attempt to prevent an enemy spacecraft from moving 
by destroying all the sectors around him with your “phasor.” 
Hexpawn appears to be very much like the Hexpawn game 
described by R.R. Wier in Byte, while Hangman is modeled on 
the popular word game. 

Although the messages contained in these games are brief and 
a little too cute, (example: !#0# DARN! YOU HAVE ME CAP¬ 
TURED!!) you can change them easily. Since each program is 
thoroughly explained, it might be interesting to add some of 
your own features if you have enough memory. 

Steve North 
Newfoundland, NJ 


Recursive Programming Techniques, W. H. Burge. Addison- 
Wesley Publ. Co., 1975. 272 pp., $15.75 

This is a graduate-level book on programming which will 
appeal primarily to Computer Science majors. The presentation 
is taut, rigorous, and thorough, and requires a high level of 
motivation from the reader. As in most of the books in this (The 
Systems Programming) Series, there are no exercises, so it is 
more of a reference text than teaching text, but it is excellent in 
either role. 

Some excerpts from the table of contents may give the flavor 
of the book: 

1. Basic Notions and Notations 

1.3 Variables and Lambda Expressions 

1.4 Data Structures 

1.10 Recursive Functions 

2. Program Structure 

2.2 Reverse Polish Programs 

2.8 Compiling Expressions 

2.10 Labels and GO TO Statements 

3. Data Structures 

3.5 List Structures 

3.6 Trees and Forests 

3.10Sequences, Coroutines, and Streams 

4. Parsing 

4.3 Context-Free Languages 

4.6 Left-Corner Bottom-Up Parsing 

5. Sorting 

5.3 Binary Search Trees 
5.5 Quicksort 

5.9 Tape Sorting 

L. D. Yarbrough 
Lexington, MA 


^ 1 / 


Introduction to Data Processing. Martin L. Harris, 326 pp. 

$3.95. John Wiley and Sons, Inc., New York. 1973. 

Harris presents the fundamentals of data processing in 
a programmed format. Each chapter is divided into num¬ 
bered sections that present new information. The objectives 
are identified at the beginning of each chapter and each 
chapter also contains a review. You may use the review as 
a pretest and, if satisfied with your performance, you may 
skip that chapter. 

The basic concepts of data processing are presented 
in an elementary, low-key fashion. The book could truly 
serve as an “introduction” for the neophyte. Little previous 
knowledge of data processing or computer application is 
assumed. “The purpose of this book, then, is to give you 
some basic understanding of what data processing is, how 
it is organized, what types of equipment are used, and 
how a particular data processing system is designed.” A 
cross referencing chart to other data processing texts is 
provided for the reader who seeks additional information 
or another perspective to the same topics. 

One chapter provides instruction in the BASIC pro¬ 
gramming language as an illustration of how instructions 
are written for a computer. Uses for other languages 
(COBOL, FORTRAN, RPG) are only briefly mentioned. 

The text can be recommended to someone who is be¬ 
ginning a study of data processing. It provides an introduc¬ 
tory background in a programmed format for self-study. It 
might also be used as a review text. It is unfortunate, 
however, that only masculine pronouns (he, his, him) are 
used throughout the book. 

Jane Donnelly Gawronski 
San Diego Department of Education 
San Diego, CA. 92111 


94 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 







A sleek graceful sailing vessel glides across the sometimes green, 
sometimes blue Caribbean. The cargo: you. And an intimate group 
of lively, fun-loving shipmates. 


Uniform of the day: Shorts 
and tee shirts. Or your bikini 
if you want. And bare feet. 

Mission: A leisurely cruise to 
remote islands with names 
like Martinique, Grenada, 
Antigua—those are the 
ones you’ve heard of. Before 
the cruise ends, you’ll 


Life aboard your big 
sailing yacht is informal 
Relaxed. Romantic. 

There’s good food. 

And ‘grog! And a few 
pleasant comforts... 
but any resemblance 
to a plush pretentious 
resort hotel is 
accidental. 


know the names of many 
more. You’ll know intimitely 
the enchanting different 
mood of each... and its 
own beauty and charm. 


Come on and live. 


Spend 6 days 
exploring paradise. 
Spend six nights watching the moon rise and 
getting to know interesting people. It could be 
the most meaningful experience of your life 
...and it’s easily the best vacation you’ve had. 


A cruise is forming 
now. Your share from 
$265. Write Cap’n Mike 
for your free 
adventure booklet 
in full color. 


@ Windjammer Cruises. 


Address _ 

City _ State_ Zip_ 

Phone 

P.O. Box 120, Dept. 17 Miami Beach, Florida 33139 


95 


















Electronic Computers. S. H. Hollingdale and G. C. Tootill. 
Penguin Books (A Pelican Original), Middlesex, England. 
Published 1965 and revised in 1975. 378 pages, illustrated, 
indexed, 4 Vi x 7, £1 ($3.95 in the United States and Canada), 
paperback. 

The publisher’s notes on the back cover describe this book as 
being intended for “the general reader.” “[The authors] have 
taken particular care with the specialist jargon of their subject, 
explaining each term as it occurs.” 

A “general reader” had better equip himself or herself with a 
solid background in mathematics and electronics if that general 
reader wants to wade through some parts of the book. A certain 
technical patois in a work of this sort is probably unavoidable, 
but it is irresponsible if not actually misleading of the publisher 
to represent the book as a general work when it is in fact no such 
thing. 

For example, it is hardly helpful to offer, as the authors do in a 
footnote on page 107, a twenty-five word definition of a 
derivative. A reader who doesn't already know what a derivative 
is will not understand either the definition or the second order 
differential equations sprinkled across the page in the solution 
of a multi-storied building stress analysis problem. And no 
reader who doesn’t know something about electronics is likely to 
understand the wiring diagram on the next page of the analog 
computer which is supposed to work out the solution. 

The authors are both mathematicians who have been involved 
in the British computer industry almost from its beginnings after 
World War II. The writing is clear, although a bit leaden in the 
inimitable style of British technical writing. The book’s 
emphasis is on the British computer industry and British 
computer users, with little said of what is happening on the other 
shore of the Atlantic. The bias is somewhat strange in light of the 
almost total American domination of the field. 

There are twelve chapters. The first two present a detailed 
history of computing, beginning with the abacus. It has always 
been a mystery to me why the decimal notation was not used in 
ancient times by the same peoples who used the abacus so 
skillfully. Nothing seems to be more natural than the transition 
from the positional decimal notation of the abacus to a similar 
system for writing the same numbers on paper or papyrus or 
cuneiform. Yet the ancient Greeks, who were first rate 
mathematical heavyweights, never made the connection and 
used a cumbersome alphabet-based system for transcribing 
numbers. Hollingdale and Tootill offer the explanation that 
since arithmetic was always done on an abacus and never on 
“scratch papyrus,” the awkwardness of the method used to write 
down numbers was never really a problem. I find this 
explanation clever but not quite satisfying. 

In fact the Babylonians did use a positional notation with a 
radix of sixty but without a zero, so 1,60,3600 and 1 / 60 were all 
written the same way and the correct figure had to be deduced 
from the context. The elusive zero wasn’t invented until many 
centuries later by the Hindus, even though it was right there on 
the abacus all the time. 

Of course we can always ask questions of the type — If the 
Greeks were really so smart, why didn’t they invent the 
cheeseburger?” In retrospect many brilliant ideas seem to be so 
simple that it is difficult to understand why no one thought of 
them before. Hindsight is one of the most exact of the sciences. 

In 1946 the American Army in Japan staged a competition 
between a Japanese version of the abacus, known as a soroban 
and the most modern electric (not electronic — the word wasn’t 
even in the dictionary then) calculator. To quote Stars and 
Stripes, “the abacus victory was complete.” So ended an era. 

The emphasis in the book is on hardware. There are numerous 
diagrams of the “insides” of various units, including a 
differential analyzer! Not much space is devoted to minicom¬ 
puters, and the little there is on the subject of micro¬ 
miniaturization seems to have been added as an afterthought 
when the book was last revised in 1975. This last comment is not 
offered as a criticism, since no one in his right mind could have 
foreseen the Intel 8080, but the sparse treatment does date the 
book. 

In fact the 1975 revision appears not to have been especially 
extensive. In several instances the authors mention the 
technique of punching out intermediate results on cards for use 
in later steps of the calculation, as though tapes and disks had 
not yet been invented. Nevertheless, the workings of tape units 
are explained in chapter seven and almost the whole of chapter 


twelve is devoted to a very detailed description of disk drives. 

Although there is a chapter on software, it is mostly devoted 
to a description of programming languages, especially ALGOL. 
There is too little said about operating systems or time sharing, 
and nothing at all of interpreters or of structured programming. 

The effect of computers on society is not treated at all, except 
in an aside in which the authors mention “effective ways of using 
[computers] — for good or ill.” 

To sum up, the book is clearly written and informative, 
although hardly as up to date or inclusive as it might be. It is also 
too technical for the general reader, but it can be useful to the 
reader with a good background in computers who wants to fill in 
some gaps in his or her knowledge, particularly about early 
hardware. 

A final point — if one British pound is worth* about two 
American dollars, why does this book cost £1 in Britain and 
$3.95 in the United States? 

Alex Ragen 
Jerusalem, Israel 

* When this review was written, matters changed rather seriously 
soon after. 

Configurations (Game). Harold L. Dorwart. Wiff ‘N’ Proof 
Learning Games Association, 1490 South Boulevard, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48104. $6.75. 

After playing the game Configurations a student should have: 

1) The realization of the existence of finite projective geometries, 

2) An aroused interest in finite projective geometries, 3) A better 
understanding of some number patterns. 

Configurations contains a series of geometric puzzles, as 
games of solitaire and discovery, based on finite projective 
geometries. The geometries used are the Fano 73 , the Mobius- 
Kantor 83 , the Pappus 93 , the Desargues 10 3 and others. Each 
of the games is played on a game board with small plastic 
numerals provided in the game kit. By placing the numerals on 
the boards according to the rules found in the instruction 
manual, the player is led to very interesting mathematical 
discoveries. 

Configurations would be a worthwhile addition to any Math 
Lab or Math Resource Center to be used by students working on 
independent projects or by those who are interested in a fun way 
to acquire new knowledge. 

Peter B. Danos 
W. Redding, Conn. 

^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 

Software Tools, Kernighan, B.W. and Plauger, P.J., Addison- 
Wesley Publ. Co., 1976, $8.95. 

To teachers of programming: Stop what you are now doing; 
get yourself a copy of this book and study it. Then give some 
thought to what you have been teaching and what you should be 
teaching about programming. You will find in the book a lot of 
good ideas and a wealth of well-written, useful examples that 
you can use to explain to your students how to write clear, 
effective, reliable, understandable programs. If you get caught 
up by the ideas in the book you can send $25 to Ms. Linda Banks 
at Addison-Wesley and she will send you a 9-track 800 BPI 
magnetic tape containing all the programs in this book (over 200 
in all) for you and your students to use and study. 

To students of programming: If your teacher is too slow in 
responding to the above, get your own copy of this book and 
study it. Shortly you will be programming rings around your 
classmates and your teacher, and you will be preparing yourself 
to take your place among a new wave of professional computer 
scientists who know, for a change, what they are doing. 

To professional programmers: Get on the ball; the new wave 
is coming. 

To the authors and publishers of software tools: I am adding 
your book to a short list of things I wish I had done, along with 
the pocket calculator, the cassette tape recorder, and a few other 
goodies. This is the best programming book published in the last 
3 years, at least. Thank you. 

L. D. Yarbrough 
Lexington, MA 


96 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 







CREATIVE COMPUTING BRINGS TOGETHER LEADING 
PROJECTS AND WRITERS UNDER ONE COVER 


The following are just a small sample of 
the contributors that have recently ap¬ 
peared on the pages of Creative Com¬ 
puting: 


• David H. Ahl 

Author of 101 BASIC Computer 
Games and other books 

• Isaac Asimov 

Author of over 165 books on science 
and science fiction 

• Alfred Bork 

Director of Physics Computer De¬ 
velopment Project, UC, Irvine 

• T. C. Chen 

IBM San Jose Research Laboratory 

• Gordon R. Dickson 
Noted science fiction author 

• Herbert L. Dreyfus 

Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, UC, 
Berkeley 

• Thomas A. Dwyer 

Project Solo and Soloworks, Univ. of 
Pittsburgh 


• Stephen B. Gray 

Founder, Amateur Computer Society 

• Ron Jones 

Founder, Zephyros Education Ex¬ 
change and DeSchool Primers 

• Kenneth Knowlton 

Computer artist, inventor of EXPLOR 
graphics language 

• Walter Koetke 

Pioneer in using computers in secon¬ 
dary school mathematics 

• Peter Kugel 

Inventor of many logic games 

• Ruth Leavitt 

Computer artist, author of Artist and 
Computer 

• Sol Libes 

Author of many electronics texts, 
President NJ Amateur Computer 
Group 

• Serna Marks 

Co-author of Run Computer , Run and 
numerous articles 

• John McCarthy 

Artifical Intelligence Laboratory, 
Stanford Univ. 


• Robert McLean 

Ontario Institute for Studies in Edu¬ 
cation 

• Erik McWilliams 

TIE Branch, National Science Founda¬ 
tion 

• Monty Newborn 

Author of Computer Chess and other 
related books 

• Frederik Pohl 

Noted science fiction author and 
editor 

• Bertram Raphael 

Author of The Thinking Computer 

• Robert Taylor 

Director of Academic Computing, 
Teachers College, Columbia Univ. 

• John Tunney 

U S. Senator from California 

• Murray Turoff 

Developer of computer conferencing 

• Xerox Palo Alto Research Center 
Home of Dynabook and the Smalltalk 
language 

• John Whitney 
Computer film-maker 




PRAGMATIC, SIGNIFICANT 
REVIEWS EVERY ISSUE 


ORDER FORM 


Creative Computing brings you no-nonsense reviews of 
hardware, books, and games like the following: 

• Microprocessor kits: Altair 8800, SWTP 6800, etc. 

• Programmable hand calculators: HP 22, Tl SR 52, etc. 

• Programmable desk calculators: HP 9815A, etc. 

• Self-contained minicomputers: Tektronix 4015, Wang 
2200 , etc. 

• Peripherals: Teletype KSR 43, TV Dazzler, etc. 

• Video games: Pong, Odyssey 300, etc. 

• Books: 10 reviews every issue; every BASIC book re¬ 
viewed in 1976 

• Miscellaneous: Movies, TV shows, games, records, etc. 


MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS 


Creative Computing (Bi-monthly) 


□ Institutional 

□ Institutional 

□ Individual \ 

□ Individual ' 

□ Individual i 

□ Individual ' 


» Any 
f Country 

USA only 
Foreign 


1-year 

$15 

3-year 

40 

1-year 

8 

3-year 

21 

1-year 

10 

3-year 

27 


Creative Computing and Byte (Save 10%) 

USA □ 1-year $18 □ 3-year $46 

Foreign □ 1 -year 23 □ 3-year 61 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 
IN A NUTSHELL 

Creative Computing is for students, educators, hobby¬ 
ists, and anyone curious about computers. Carries 
articles and stories about computers in art, music, 
education, space exploration, health care, and other 
unusual as well as traditional applications. Lots of 
how-to building and programming information. 
Contains programs, games and simulations with 
complete listings mostly in BASIC, FORTRAN, and 
APL. In-depth book reviews, problems, puzzles, fic¬ 
tion, poetry, side-splitting cartoons and more. Con¬ 
temporary, humanistic editorial approach. Published 
bi-monthly. At least 96 pages per issue. Over 25,000 
circulation in 50 states and 22 foreign countries. 




BOOKS AND MERCHANDISE 

Quart. Cat. Descriptions Price 


Books shipping charge $1.00 USA, $2.00 Foreign 
NJ Residents add 5% sales tax 
TOTAL (magazines and books) 

□ Cash, check, or M.O. enclosed 

□ BankAmericard ) Card No. _ 

□ Master Charge j Expiration date _ 

□ Please bill me ($1.00 billing fee will be added) 

Name_ 


NO RISK GUARANTEE 

"You may cancel your subscription at anytime and we will 
refund the balance without question." 


Address _ 

City _State 


Zip 

























6800 

★ COMPLETE WITH 2K OF MEMORY 

★ SERIAL INTERFACE 

★ STANDARD ROM MONITOR (Motorola MC 6830L7) 

★ 4K AND 8K BASIC AVAILABLE 



Always the best value in hardware and now an outstanding 
selection of software too. What more could you want in a 
computer system? For less than four hundred dollars you 
get everything you need—ready to connect to a terminal 
and go to work. No surprises no funny business, just good 
reliable hardware in a very practical system that may be ex¬ 
panded to meet almost any later need. 

Memory and interfaces are not extra cost items in our 
system. A standard Motorola MIKBUG® ROM monitor 
makes the system completely compatible with Motorola 

® Motorola 


software and eliminates any need for console switches and 
light. Data may be entered from the terminal in convenient 
hexidecimal form. The power supply is adequate to operate 
a fully expanded system with up to 24K of memory and up 
to eight (8) interfaces—simultaneously. 

See the 6800 and our peripheral equipment at your nearest 
dealer, or write for a complete description. 

MP-68 COMPUTER KIT—with serial interface, 

2k of memory and ROM monitor $395.00 ppd 


Southwest Technical Products Corporation, 219 W. Rhapsody, San Antonio, Texas 78216 










