
Do It Yourself 
Computer Poetry 

Amateur Computer Clubs 



COMPUTERS IN ELECTIONS 

Feature Review: Computer Power and 

Human Reason 

Creative Programming Techniques 



























WHY SETTLE FOR LESS- 



PROCESSOR— 


"Motorola" M6800 processor 
with Mikbug® ROM operating 
system. Automatic reset and load¬ 
ing, plus full compatability with 
Motorola evaluation set software. Crystal 
controlled oscillator provides the clock signal 
for the processor and is divided down by the 
MCI4411 to provide the various Baud rate outputs 
for the interface circuits. Full buffering on all data 
and address busses insures "glitch" free operation with 
full expansion of memory and interfaces. 


POWER 
SUPPLY- 

Heavy duty 10.0 Amp power 
supply capable of powering a 
fully expanded system of memory 
and interface boards. Note 25 Amp 
rectifier bridge and 91,000 mfd computer 
grade filter capacitor. 


INTERFACE- 


Serial control interface connects to any RS-232, or 
20 Ma. TTY control terminal. Connectors pro¬ 
vided for expansion of up to eight interfaces. 
Unique programmable interface circuits 
allow you to match the interface to al¬ 
most any possible combination of 
polarity and control signal ar¬ 
rangements. Baud rate selec¬ 
tion can be made on each 
individual interface. All 
this at a sensible cost 
of only $35.00 for 
either serial, or 
parallel type 


MEMORY- 


All static memory with selected 2102 IC's al¬ 
lows processor to run at its maximum 
speed at all times. No refresh system is 
needed and no time is lost in me¬ 
mory refresh cycles. Each board 
holds 4,096 words of this 
proven reliable and trouble 
free memory. Cost- 
only $125.00 for 
each full 4K 


memory. 


DOCUMENTATION- 

Probably the most extensive and complete set of data available for any 
microprocessor system is supplied with our 6800 computer. This includes 
the Motorola programming manual, our own very complete assembly in¬ 
structions, plus a notebook full of information that we have compiled on 
the system hardware and programming. This includes diagnostic programs, 
sample programs and even a Tic Tac Toe listing. 


Mikbug® is a registered trademark of 
Motorola Inc. 



Computer System 


with serial interface and 2,048 words 
of memory.$395.00 


r 



CITV STATE ZIP 


Southwest Technical Products Corp., Box 32040, San Antonio, Texas 78284 





















• A COMPLETE 
MICROCOMPUTER 

• ONLY $245 

• NOT A KIT! 

• FULLY ASSEMBLED 

• FULLY TESTED 

• FULLY WARRANTED 

• OPERATES WITH 

• KEYBOARD & DISPLAY 

• AUDIO CASSETTE 

• TTY 

• KIM-1 INCLUDES 

• HARDWARE 

KIM-1 MODULE WITH 
6502^iP ARRAY 
6530 ARRAY (2) 

1 K BYTE RAM 
15 I/O PINS 

• SOFTWARE 

MONITOR PROGRAMS 
(STORED IN 
2048 ROM BYTES) 

• FULL DOCUMENTATION 

KIM-1 USER MANUAL 
SYSTEM SCHEMATIC 
6500 HARDWARE 
MANUAL 

6500 PROGRAMMING 
MANUAL 

6500 PROGRAMMER'S 
REFERENCE CARD 

I I I I I I I 


■ 

■ 

■ 

■ 


Send to: 



MOS TECHNOLOGY. INC. 
KIM-1, 950 Rittenhouse Rd. 
Norristown, PA 19401 


Please ship me_KIM-1 Systems at a cost of $245.00 per system plus $4.50 for 

shipping, handling and insurance (U.S. and Canada only) PA residents add 6% sales tax. 

(International sales subject to U.S. Commodity Control Regulations. 

Add $20.00 per system for shipping and handling of international orders.) 

My check or money order is enclosed for $_ 

Name_ 

Address - 

City_State_Zip_ 












































































































































ICEIBI 

fOPTUI 



Introducing SCELBAL, 
the new microcomputer 
language that’s simpler 
than machine language. 


A complete language for 
“8008”/“8080” systems 
including source listings, 
routines, flow charts and 
more! 


SCELBAL. Scientific ELementary 
BAsic Language for “8008”/“8080” 
systems. A complete, illustrated program book. Routines. 
Techniques. Source Listings. Flow Charts. And more. 
Took several years to develop. Now yours for many years 
to come. First time that intimate details of higher level 
language has been offered for such a low price. Only $49! 
You get 5 Commands: SCR, LIST, RUN, SAVE, LOAD. 

14 Statements: REM, LET, IF . . . THEN, GOTO, FOR with 
STEP, END, INPUT, PRINT, NEXT, GOSUB, RETURN and 
optional DIM. 7 Functions: INT, SGN, ABS, SQ*R, RND, 
CHR, TAB. And, it runs in 8K and more. Here’s all the 
data needed to customize a high level language for your 
system ... at a fraction of the cost! 


Order your copy today! Get 
started advancing your system! 


$ 49 


ppd. 



Here’s SCELBI’s First Book of 
Computer Games for the 8008/8080. 
Action-packed. And fun. 

\ Try to beat the computer at its own game. 

1 Here’s the first complete machine language 
computer manual for computer games to 
include source listings, flow charts, 
routines and more. Space Capture — You 
against the computer using “search and 
destroy” strategy to shoot down roaming 
alien spaceships in outerspace. Hexpawn 
-^-a mini-chess game that lets the 
computer make mistakes ... but only 
once. Hangman — an updated version 
of the great kid game. Computer selects 
words at random from long, expandable 
list. Try to beat it in 8 moves or less. 
Illustrated. Fun extras to put your 
computer to challenging, competitive, 
fun use. . . , 4^95 

Order yours today! p p( j. 


SCELBI’s new microcomputer 
Game Book of Outer Space... 

Captain your own crusading starship 
against the logic of your "BOOS” or 
“8080”. You must destroy a random 
number of alien ships without running 
out of stardates, out of fuel, out 
of ammunition or out of the galaxy. 

Plan your mission. How much fuel is 
used for your warp factor? Don’t run 
into roaming stars that can damage your 
ship. Suddenly! Condition Red! Alien in 
sight! How big is he? Fire a phasor or 
torpedo! He’s damaged or destroyed. 

But, you’ve used valuable fuel. That’s 
Just the beginning. A new game every 
time. Complete program book in machine 
language for 4K memory, including 
source listings, flow charts, routines, etc. 

Great intergalactic adventure and fun. 

Order “GALAXY” today! 14 95 PP* 


G4MXY 




“ 8080 ” 

SOFTWARE MANUALS 


ASs 6M| 


Three new basic, com¬ 
plete “MUST” manuals! 
“8080” Assembler Pro¬ 
gram operates easily in 
4K bytes of RAM (includ¬ 
ing symbol table). Unique 
feature: How to accept 
mnemonics related to ' 

* 8008” based machines 
on “8080”. Includes all 
major routines, pertinent 
flow charts, highly com¬ 


mented assembled listing 
and more. $17.95. 

“8080“ Editor Program 
identical to “8008” 
Editor, with machine 
codes for “8080”. $14.95. 
“8080” Monitor Routines 
same functions as “8008” 
specifically developed 
to utilize expanded 
capabilities of ”8080”. 
$11.95. 


SAVE $5.35! BUY ALL 3 FOR ONLY $39.50! 


MACHINE LANGUAGE 
PROGRAMMING 

FOR THE “8008” 

(and similar microcomputers) 


Here’s the detailed, 
basic manual you need to 
develop today’s machine 
language programs. 170 
pages. Illustrated. Easy- 
to-read, understand. Most 
techniques applicable to 
other micro-computers, 
including ”8080”. 
Floating-point arith¬ 
metic package is 
worth the price 
alonel 

Order today! 


19 95 pp<i. 


► Detailed presentation of “8008” codes • Flow Charts 
» Mapping • Floating-point Package • Debugging 

> Basic programs: loops, counters, masks 

• Organizing Tables • Editing/Assembling 

• >Math operations • I/O, Real Time Programming 

• Maximizing memories • And lots more. 

Master Charge, Postal and Bank Money Orders preferred. 
Personal checks delay shipping up to 4 weeks. Pricing, 
specifications, availability subject to change without notice. 
Prices for U.S. and Canadian delivery at book mailing rate. 
Add $2.50 for each publication If Priority Air Service (U.S.) 
desired. Foreign orders add $6.00 for each publication. 

SCELBI COMPUTER 
CONSULTING INC. 

1322 Rear Boston Post Rd., Milford, CT 06460 
Telephone: 203/874-1573 


ROBERT A. PAUL ADVERTISING AGENCY 5404-A 4-28-76 


















creative Gorapatmg 



In This Issue of 
CREATIVE COMPUTING 


ARTICLES 

Toward the Electric Symbol - Mueller .20 

How We Spent Our Summer Vacation - Lees ..22 

Compyouter Fair - Thomas .26 

Interview With Carole McCauley - Silverstein .28 

Once Upon a Computer - McCauley .29 

Poets, Birds, Snow, Kites, Computer - Layzer .31 

Producing Computer Poetry - Chisman .32 

Amateur Computing - Libes .39 

The Madness of Programming Contests - Lees .42 

The Art of Education - Dwyer ..46 

Computing At the University of Texas .50 

Computers in Secondary Schools - 1975 . 51 

Russian Computing: One Man’s View - Ahl ...52 

Polls, Pols, and Power - Acocella .54 

Some Thoughts - Lees .62 

World Altair Convention .64 

FICTION AND POETRY 

Myself Manifest - Chisman .33 

Never Talk to Computers That Are Strange - Cail .58 

REVIEWS AND RESOURCES 

Compleat Computer Catalogue . 14 

Equipment Profile: HP9815A Calculator .. 18 

Computer Club Directory . 40 

Star Trek Information Exchange .44 

Feature Review: Computer Power and Human Reason . 83 


Publisher 

David H. Ahl 

Editor 

Burchenal Green 

Associate Editors 

John Lees, University of Missouri-Rolla 
Trish Todd, Brown University 
Steve North, County College of Morris 
Walter Koetke, Lexington High School 

Reviews Editors 

Peter Kugel, Boston College 

Stephen B. Gray, Amateur Computer Society 

Careers Editor 

Eleanor Corr, Keystone Jr. College 

Higher Education Editors 

A. Kent Morton, Dartmouth College 
Merl Miller, Matrix Publishers 


THINGS TO DO, COMPUTER GAMES 


Haiku Generator - Emmerich .34 

Roses Are Red, Violets Are Blue - Ahl . 36 

Prejudice Analysis - Kahn and Gross .67 

The World of Series - Reagan ...69 

Change For A Dollar - Hess .70 

Creative Programming Techniques .71 

Puzzles and Problems .72 

WATCHMAN - Oglesby .74 

DELMAR - Morgan and Roderick .76 

FOOLISHNESS 

An Analytic Examination of Creative 

Computing - Ahl .57 

Trots and Bonnie - Flenniken .65 

A Fable . 66 


Humor Editor 

Jack Ludwig 

Technology Editors 

Thomas R. Kibler, Georgia State University 
Alan Salisbury, U.S. Army 


Notices .... 
Input/Output 
Editorial ... 


DEPARTMENTS 


4 Subscription Form ... 21 

6 Compendium . 78 

12 Reviews . 92 


Business Manager 

Carol R. Tick 

Sep-Oct 1976 

Volume 2, Number 5 “Under 1,000,000 circulation” 

Consecutive Issue No. 11 

Creative Computing magazine is published bi-monthly by Creative 
Computing, P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 07960. (Editorial office: 20 
Lynnfield Drive, Morristown, NJ 07960) 

Subscriptions: Institutional 1-year $15, 3-year $40; Individual 1-year $8, 
3-year $21; Foreign 1 -year $10, 3-year $27. Subscription orders, change of 
address, Form 3579 to Creative Computing, P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 
07960. 

Second class postage paid at Morristown, New Jersey and at additional 
mailing offices. 

Copyright © 1976 by Creative Computing. All rights reserved. Reproduc¬ 
tion prohibited. Printed in USA. 


MEMBER 



COMMITTEE OF SMALL MAGAZINE 
EDITORS AND PUBLISHERS 


COVER 

The cover art is typical of the many mathematical constructions 
possible with a small computer plotter. Interestingly, the cover 
was not done with a computer but rather was intricately done by 
hand lacing strings between carefully drilled holes in a sheet of 
plexiglass. The artist is Peter Catranides who has many other 
designs in multiple and limited editions available at very 
reasonable prices. Write him at 24 Bennett Ave., #34B; New York, 
NY 10033. 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


3 



















































Notices, etc. 

CALL FOR PAPERS 

National Computer Conference 

June 13-16, 1977, Dallas, Texas 

Have you just been saying to yourself, “The fastest growing and 
most exciting area of interest today is the individual and computing. 
I wish more people were tuned in to its potential and ac¬ 
complishments." 

Now is your chancel! Share your thoughts, dreams, expertise. 
As well as the traditional professional areas, in 1977, NCC is 
looking for papers in the following areas: 

The INDIVIDUAL and COMPUTING 

• Career Development 

• Privacy 

• Legislation 

• Computer Crime 

• Computer Errors Past & Future 

• Computers as a Hobby 

• Personal Computing 

• Computing Satire (Fiction) 

• Influence of Computers on Individuals 

Deadline: December 1, 1976. For guidelines, contact: 

Dr. Robert R. Korfhage, Program Chairman, Dept, of Computer 
Science, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX 75275 


CCUC/8 at Michigan State 

The Eighth Annual Conference on Computers in Undergraduate 
Curricula (CCUC/8) will be held June 19-22, 1977, at Michigan 
State University. 

CCUC is the only national multidisciplinary conference concern¬ 
ed solely with the use of computers in undergraduate instruction. 
The first conference was held at the University of Iowa in 1970. 

For further information and call-for papers contact Gerald E. St. 
Amand, Graduate School of Business Administration, 418 Eppley 
Center, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Ml 48824 


Naucal Conference 

The National Association of Users of Computer Applications to 
Learning 1976 Conference Oct. 28-30 in Portland, Oregon will 
feature Richard Hooper talking about Great Britain's national 
planning for instructional computing, Seymour Papert talking 
about the turtle system for elementary education, Alfred Bork 
discussing computer graphics in education, and Joseph Weisen - 
baum author of Computer Power and Human Reason, (reviewed in 
this issue) speaking on the computer as an extension of the human 
mind. 

To register, write: Dr. John Mandelare, Marion Hall, Marylhurst 
Campus, Marylhurst, Oregon 97036 


PLAY ROOM 




ATTENTION READERS 

I Creative Computing is seeking articles, programs, 
I graphics, games reviews and other material for future 
I issues. We are especially looking for “how-to” material. 
Contributions should be typed, double-space (3000 
I words maximum). Include a self-addressed stamped 
l envelope if you want an acknowledgement, 
i We pay for material from professional writers at rates 
1 between K and 3$ per word. Please note on your 
1 submission whether you are submitting on a paid or 
unpaid basis (the probability of acceptance is higher for 
unpaid material). We normally do not pay for material 
from educators or students. 

Upcoming issues will focus on a wide variety of topics 
including the following: 

Computer kits 
Arts and humanities 
Music 

TTY and plotter graphics 
Health care, medicine 
Psychiatric treatment 

Public access (libraries, museums, storefronts) 

Retail computer stores 
Networks 

Computer conferencing 
Education 

Computer games that learn 
Robots and cyborgs 
Future computers 




OUR FACE IS RED 

"Report on Current Equipment" (Mar/Apr 1976, page 29) was, 
unfortunately, not credited to its author, the very talented and creative Fred 
Gruenberger of Popular Computing, Box 272, Calabasas, CA 91302. Please 
forgive us Fred. 

The puzzles and problems (Mar/Apr 1976, page 67) were credited to 
MACUG Newsletter when, in fact, MACUG had gotten them from The Point 
Set. This bulletin is published by the Department of Mathematics, Univ. of 
Wisconsin, Stevens Point, Wl 54481. Editor is Gordon Miller. Sorry Gordon. 


Graeme Levin, Publisher of Games & Puzzles Magazine,asked 
me to mention that they are seeking contributions for their 
monthly “Play Room" feature. "Play Room" consists of relatively 
short articles about proprietary and traditional games not 
regularly covered (descriptions, strategies of play, etc.) (Regularly 
covered games include Mastermind, Chess, Crosswords, Go, and 
Bridge.) Original card, pencil-and-paper, board, etc. games are 
welcome. 

Send material to "Play Room" Editor, Games & Puzzles, 11 
Tottenham Court Road, London Wl A4XF, England. 

Incidentally, a one-year subscription to Games & Puzzles costs 
$12.00 to the same address. Please mention Creative . 


WHY REPRINTS? 


Occasionally readers write and ask me, why does 
Creative Computing run reprints of articles which have 
appeared elsewhere and are available through libraries? 

1. Many of the publications from which we run reprints 
are not generally available in local or school libraries. 

2. I would rather run a good reprint than a mediocre 
original article. 

3. Oftenl get a reprint of an appropriate article by an 
outstanding author whereas I could not possibly afford to 
pay the author for> original material. 

4. In my experience, if we run a reference to another 
article, or even a brief synopsis, most people will not 
bother to look it up (assuming, of course, that it is 
available). One might argue, ‘‘Well, if they don’t look it up, 
they’re not interested.” I disagree—-even interested people 
won’t remember to make note of the reference, or will 
forget it when they do go to the library. Secondly, I believe 
that many people who would not normally be interested in j 
a subject, will read about it if it’s in front of them, thereby • 
broadening their scope and breadth of knowledge. 

This last point explains too why I occasionally let 
Creative Computing take forays into diverse subject 
areas, sometimes only distantly related to computing — I 
DHA 


“Tis the mind that makes the body rich.” 

Shakespeare 


4 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 







DAZZLER SOFTWARE CONTEST 

FIRST PRIZE: $500 certificate for hardware 

from CROMEMCO 

SECOND PRIZE: $250 certificate for hardware 
from CROMEMCO ' 

OBJECT: 

Develop a program resulting in a new and interesting display using 
the Cromemco TV Dazzler. (The Dazzler is an interface that permits 
a home color TV set to be a graphic terminal for certain 
microcomputers.) 

RULES: 

• All entries must use the Cromemco Dazzler display and must not 
require more than 20K of computer memory. 

• All entries will be judged on 

1 —originality 

2— general user appeal 

3— clarity of documentation 

• Entries should include source code and object code on punched 
paper tape. A listing of an appropriate bootstrap loader should 
also be provided. 

• Software should be compatible with MITS REV 1 serial I/O' port 
convention for I/O requirements (i.e., data transfer is on port 1, 
bit 7 (active low) of input port 0 is used to indicate receiver 
ready, and bit 0 (active low) of input port 0 is used to indicate 
transmitter empty). 

Microcomputers can be incredibly versatile. The Dazzler adds the 
dimension of full-color graphic display to the microcomputer. 

What can you develop? — games ? — business ? — education? — 
art? — others? 

SEND ALL ENTRIES TO: PEOPLE'S COMPUTER COMPANY, P.O. 
Box 310, Menlo Park, Ca. 94025 

ENTRIES MUST BE RECEIVED BY SEPT. 30, 1976. 

ATTENTION: 

COMPUTER KIT BUILDERS 

Creative Computing is seeking in-depth articles about building 
various computer kits. We want truthful, straight-forward, in-depth 
reports covering: 

• Ordering, delivery, and manufacturer support 

• Ease of assembly, time, clarity of instructions 

• Use of the machine, how it works 

• Software and documentation 

We do not want manufacturer puffery, broad generalizations, or 
writing bogged down in technical abstractions. We are particularly 
interested in the Altair 680, IMSAI8080, SWTP 6800, Jolt System, 
Sphere, Wave Mate, etc. 

Articles should be typed, double space; 3000 words or less. 
Include photos if possible. Payment will be made at our standard 
rate of approx. 2Vi cents per word. Send material to Editor, Creative 
Computing, P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 07960. 

EAI AWARD PROGRAM 

Electronics-Associates, Inc., manufacturer and designer of 
analog/hybrid computer equipment, in order to encourage the use 
of hybrid technology, has established an award program offering 
up to 

$2500 

to graduate students who do research on a topic that is either 
uniquely dependent on analog/hybrid computers, extends their 
applicability to technical problems, or improves their utility or 
performance. 

$200-$500 

honoraria are offered to professors who publish on the 
advantages of teaching both hybrid and digital technology. 

For details on both programs—write or call: 

Arthur I. Rubin, Manager, Scientific Computation, Elec¬ 
tronic Associates, Inc., 18S Monmouth Parkway, West 
Long Branch, NJ 07764, (201) 229-1100 


IC KITS FOR SCHOOLS 

The following University Kits are available to classes and individual student 
projects. All Kits contain functional devices which have been rejected for 
cosmetic defects. Documentation describing the operation of the units in 
each Kit is also included. 


Kit A 

Kit B 

KitC 

1 -4040 

1-8080A 

1-3001 

1 -4201 

1 -8224 

8-3002 

2-4002-1 

8-2102A 

1 -3003 

2-4002-2 

4-1702A 

2-3212 

1 -4008 

4-8212 

1-3214 

1 -4009 

1 -8205 

4-3226 

4-1702A 


10-3601 


Please include a check payable to Intel Corporation in the amount 
of $20.00 per Kit. California shipments must include 6% sales tax. 

UNIVERSITY MICROCOMPUTER KIT REQUEST 

Name: ___ 

School: _1_ 

Your Position: _ 

School 

Address: _ 


Phone: _ 

Number of Kits required: Kit,_ 

Number 


Please describe the nature and intent of the class or project. 


If you are an instructor, how many students are involved in this class or 
project? What is their level of sophistication (undergraduate, graduate, 
etc.)? 


If you are a student, please provide the name and school address of your 
faculty advisor. 


Is this an individual project or are other students also involved? 


Intel is interested in making available general applications information to all 
microprocessor users. Do you anticipate producing a final paper (or perhaps 
a program) that we might make available to other users? 


Please return this information to: 

Dr. A. J. Nichols, Manager 
Microcomputer Applications 
Intel Corporation 
3065 Bowers Avenue 
Santa Clara, CA 95051 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


5 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 





























Input/ Output 



Electronic Bulletin Board 


Dear Editor: 

I enjoy your magazine very much and would like to 
compliment you and your staff on the fine job that you are 
doing. 

I would like to meet with (or at least talk over the phone with) 
people in my area who share an interest for computers as 1 do. 
Since this magazine is concerned with my interest, 1 would like 
to have anyone in my area to contact me if they would also like 
to rap about anything concerning the EDP. Also, if any of your 
readers would like to learn of others in their area, 1 would be 
glad to offer my services (along with a DEC-lO’s data base 
system) to this end. I know that meeting others would be a very 
worthwhile undertaking, along with the possibility of getting 
access to sophisticated computer systems. If anyone does 
contact me, I would be helpful to have at least their name, 
address, zip, phone number, and possibly experience with 
computers. 

If 1 can be of assistance to you in any way in the future, please 
contact me, at (301) 299-4379. (evenings) 

Paul L. Yao 
8812 Bells Mill Rd. 

Potomac, MD 20854 


A Dissenting View 

Dear Editor: 

Pm afraid the review of The Computerized Society in your 
Jan-Feb. issue might cause some people to overlook what I feel 
is a neat book. 

Let’s give credit where credit is due. The problem with books 
of this type is that they are dull. In contrast, Martin and 
Norman’s book is highly readable and downright enjoyable. The 
quote from Agnew was more indicative of the authors’style and 
colorfulness than it was of anything else. 

Pat Boyd 
1461 Hilyard 
Eugene, OR 97401 


About hardware, games 
cabbages, kings, etc. 

Dear Editor: 

I thought the last issue was perhaps the best thought out one 
I’ve seen. The program which did geometric proofs was 
fascinating, really. But I wish you had included the source 
code, no matter what particular language it was in. 

Also liked that “Report on Current Equipment.’’ That was 
really subtle ... despite all the clues in it, I don’t think a single 
student in my HS would be able to identify what was being 
discussed. I didn’t! As a matter of fact, you nearly had me 
writing a nasty letter about “Jehovah’s Instruments” (I’m a 
Jehovah’s Witness). 

But there are a few things I forsee as a problem in CC. I’m 
not sure what stand you have taken with regard to writing 
about hardware, but its my guess that you have decided not to 
get too involved. Which is good, since other mags are already 
doing a good job, and it is nice to see some variety. So it would 
seem more logical to me to just completely ignore hardware 
entirely, rather than write (not you, but your staff) very 
generalized stuff like, “Microprocessors are very small. They 
come in ICs. They will get cheaper as time goes on.” Anyone 
who really cares will need a lot more info, and anyone who 
doesn’t care will skip the article. I guess system design does 
have a lot to do with AI but as time progresses hopefully 
hardware will become more transparent to the user — he won’t 
have to bother with ex^ct system configs. and other 
meaningless technicalities. 

Another point I wanted, to bring up ... I think a lot of 
hobbyists are getting a little carried away with their Altairs and 
other home systems. I’m not referring to you, but to other 
people. One hears a lot of talk about computer revolutions, 
and computers changing our way of living, and a computer in 
every home, but if there is going to be a computer in every 
home, it won’t be anything like a black box with lights on it! 
That is no more useful to Joe American, than say, a flashlight. 
Less useful. Something which does nothing but eat up around 
$1,000 and play games and maybe balance a checkbook (now 
emptied, of course!) will not appeal to many people. 
Computers will have to show up in ways that they can be easily 
used by people who know nothing about binary numbers and 
addresses and compilers. Most people have televisions and 
radios which can be operated by a 6 year old, and not 
shortwave sets requiring years of training to operate. Every 
technological advancement has become popular when it was 
reduced to a form where the users did not have to become, 
familiar with its working innards ... except the business 
computer, perhaps. Sounds like good material for an editorial! 

Some really strange things going on at the HS here. For a 
couple of months we had an outbreak of masochism! It is really 
strange to watch a bunch of high school seniors do stuff like 
pour milkshakes in their pockets (“It was thirsty”) or punch 
themselves out, or dive headlong into a muddy ditch, or throw 
their watches and glasses down a hall. The masochism has died 
out and been replaced by total apathy. A lot ot teachers 
complain that they can’t cover the same material with us as 
they did in previous years. 

Please try to avoid making Creative Computing too much 
like Popluar Science by skirting over many “scientific” topics 
and not going into them in depth. Be sure to live up to the 
name of your mag. The geometric proof writing program was 
the most creative program I’ve seen in a while. I realize that this 
is probably a very slim possibility, but if you need any paid 
help with CC for cheap let me know ... I’m looking for a job 
this summer.* 

One other thing. There seems to be some feeling that the 
quality of the games in Creative and PCC are too low; one 
person even said he never got a game out of a magazine he 


6 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


















Three machines. 
Thousands of uses. 


HP desktop computing systems 
put the power where the problems are. 


Hewlett-Packard’s desktop 
computing systems can help 
you solve problems, generate 
reports, manipulate data, 
control instruments, and com¬ 
municate with big computers. 
Versatile, yes—and easy 
to use. 

You don’t have to become 
a computer programmer to 
write routines for these ma¬ 
chines. Instructions are 
simple and straightforward. 
And you can use the systems 
for simple keystroke calcu¬ 
lations, too. 

HP desktop computing 
systems provide economical 
alternatives to bigger, more 
expensive computers; power¬ 
ful alternatives to the time- 
consuming drudgery of 
manual calculation. 

Three computing systems 
and plenty of peripherals: 
it’s your choice. 

We offer a range of comput¬ 


ing power and I/O options so 
you can configure a system 
just right for you. 

Choose the low-cost HP 
9815 for programmed prob¬ 
lem-solving, small interfacing 
applications, and quick key¬ 
stroke calculations. It’s easy 
to use and easy to justify. 

The HP 9825, with inter¬ 
rupt, direct memory access, 
live keyboard, and a state-of- 
the-art NMOS processor, has 
minicomputer capabilities for 


system control jobs and for 
raw number-crunching 
capability. 

The HP 9830, pro¬ 
grammed in BASIC, is an all¬ 
purpose system. With an 
extensive software library and 
a large choice of peripherals 
(including 4.8 million bytes 
of mass memory and data 
communications capability), 
it may be all the computing 
power a small business or a 
large department requires. 


HP peripherals include 
card readers, paper tape 
punch and readers, printers, 
storage devices, a CRT, a 
digitizer, and, an X-Y plotter. 

Software, specialized or 
generalized, helps you 
solve problems fast. 

We’ve developed hundreds 
of programs for many appli¬ 
cations to make these systems 
quick and easy to use. There 
are generalized program 
libraries for statistics, account¬ 
ing, math, and financial anal¬ 
ysis; specialized programs for 
disciplines as diverse as elec¬ 
trical engineering and ele¬ 
mentary education, surveying 
and medical lab analysis. 

Versatile, economical 
problem-solving at 
your fingertips. 

Whether you’re an engineer 
or teacher, manager or tech¬ 
nician, businessman or scien¬ 
tist, an HP desktop comput¬ 
ing system can make problem 
solving easier and more pro¬ 
ductive. Write or call your HP 
office for more information. 


I’m interested in learning more about HP desktop 
computing systems in education applications. 

□ Please send me more information. 

□ Please have your representative contact me. 

J Name_ 

Title_ 

Institution_ 

Address ' _ 

City/State/Zip__ 

Telephone_ 



Hewlett-Packard, Box 301, 
Loveland, Colorado 80537 


406/16 


HEWLETT [hpl PACKARD 




Sales and service from 172 offices in 65 countries. 

PO Box 301, Loveland. Colorado 80537 
For assistance call Washington (301) 948-6370 Chicago (312) 677-0400. 
Atlanta (404) 434-4000. Los Angeles (213) 877-1282. Toronto (416) 678-9430 






















wanted anyway. I personally subscribe to the school of thought 
that part of the fun in playing a game is programming, it and 
knowing how it works, and being able to change it. My physics 
teacher came up with a good rule for determining if a game is 
worthwhile— “If it doesn’t use any unique aspect of the 
computer — such as its ability to store large amounts of data, 
manipulate them very fast, randomize numbers, or print things 
out in a particular way, then the game isn’t worth while.’’ Which 
is what was wrong with MASTERMIND in latest CC ... it 
could be easily played the normal way. Having the computer 
play would be interesting as an example of AI.. Similar with 
Bobstones. Deepspace fit the criterion for a worthwhile game 
under this rule, however. Just thought you might want to think 
it over ... it’s my guess that you are really not a computer 
games person, and the types of games appearing in Creative 
bears this out. Don’t take that as an insult, its just a fact. There 
are more important things than games ... recreation is an end 
to itself, but not a useful end with respect to other goals. 

Believe it or not, the heads took over the computer room 
here! It is really strange ... all these freaks manage to stop 
smoking the little green roll-your-owns long enough to play 
football on a TTY. I would say it was fine with me, except they 
are really messing things up. Last year, 1 BH (before heads) the 
computer room was clean and neat, and equipment broke 
down rarely and was fixed immediately. Now the equipment is 
always in in partial disrepair and is littered with trash. I guess 
recreational computing can have its disadvantages. 

Yours truly, etc. etc. 

Steve North 
7 Deerhaven Lane 
Newfoundland, N.J. 07435 

*\Not so slim after all. Steve is working for Creative this summer (1976) on a 
variety of things (games, hardware reviews, etc.) 

Attn: Coursewriter Users 

Dear Cyberfans: 

The Freehold Users’ Group is wondering if any of you know 
of any installation using the “BASIC/Coursewriter” implemen¬ 
tation of BASIC. If you know of such an installation or if you 
yourself use such facilities, please send the name and location of 
the installation, type of system, your name and address, and 
your relation to that system (supervisor, student, instructor, 
passer-by, etc.) To: Anthony Begonja, 31Brookside Road, 
Freehold Township, New Jersey 07728 

We are interested in communicating with and trading 
programs with fellow coursewriter users, especially the kind of 
programs that fully accommodate the various quirks in the 
coursewriter 1.1 system. This includes the text editor written by 
the Freehold Users’ Group for this kind of implementation and 
it is available upon request. 

Anthony Begonja 
For the Freehold Users’ Group 

Comments on the Turing Test 

Dear Editor: 

In the Mar/April issue of Creative Computing, Ref.l , Lewis 
Garrett makes a common mis-statement of the Turing Test as 
follows: “It consists of a man (the examiner) trying to discern 
whether or not the responses to questions he has proposed are 
being answered by a computer or another man.” 

The actual Turing test, in Turing’s own words is given in Ref. 
2: “The imitation game is played with three people, a man (A), a 
woman (B), and an interrogator (C) who may be of either sex. 
The interrogator stays in a room apart from the other two. The 
object of the game for the interrogator is to determine which of 
the other two is the man and which is the woman.... A’s object 
in the game is to try and cause C to make thewrong identification 
... The object of B is to help the interrogator... We now ask the 
question ‘What will happen when a machine takes the part of A 
in the game?’ Will the interrogator decide wrongly as often when 
the game is played like this as when the game is played between a 
man and a woman? These questions replace our original, “Can 
machines think?” 

There are two interesting aspects of this formulation: 

1—Turing obviously felt that faking, as far as sexual 
identification is concerned, requires a high level of intelligence. 


2—Turning seemed to feel that the sex of the examiner was 
unimportant. 

An experiment using the Turing game 

I have run this experiment half a dozen times in classes at San 
Jose State University, as reported in Ref. 3. Briefly, a male and a 
female student are sent out into the hall and the man is told to 
fool the class into believing he is the woman. The class makes up 
questions to determine which response comes from the man and 
which from the woman, using a courier to carry the messages 
back and forth. The experiment is repeated with the woman 
trying to fool the class into thinking that she is the man. 

It turns out that Turing was indeed correct in surmising that 
this type of faking requires a high degree of intelligence. 
However, he failed to realize that the sex of the interrogator is of 
crucial importance: only a woman can make up good questions 
to detect a man’s faking, and only a man can make up good 
questions to detect a woman’s faking. 

By now I know the areas for good questions for detecting both 
types of faking, and I now know about a certain type of question 
that can devastate fakers in any field, but I won’t spoil the game 
for you by revealing them at this time. Play the game with some 
friends and enjoy learning about the nuances of fakery on your 
own. 

Oscar Firschein 
Lockheed Palo Alto Research Laboratory 
3251 Hanover St. 

Palo Alto, CA 94304 

References 

1— “Primer on Artificial Intelligence,” Lewis E. Garrett, Creative Computing, 
Vol. 2, No. 2, Mar.Arpil 1976, pp. 20-24 

2— “Creative Machinery and Intelligence,” A.M. Turing in “Computers and 
Thought, edited by Edward Feigenbaum and Julian Feldman, McGraw Hill 1963, 
pp. 11-35 

3— “The Turing Women’s Liberation Index,” O. Firschein, DATAMATION, 
April 1974, p. 28 

“Learning Programs — A Challenge” 

Dear Editor: 

For some time, I’ve toyed with the idea of developing a 
program that “learns.” I realize that this has been done by the 
chess-playing monsters, but how about a simple learning tic-tac- 
toe program? I have not had the time to work on this much, but 
the task is a little more difficult than it seems on the surface. I 
have taken the approach that the tic-tac-toe program 
“remembers” all previous games. Through some algorithim, it 
never repeats a losing game. Therefore, eventually only winning 
(or tie) games are left. I’ll admit that this is more “remembering” 
than learning, but its a crude approach that works. The 
challenge is in getting the program to fit into a minicomputer 
without a disk. So—if you’re interested, I’d like to see what your 
readers can come up with under these constraints. 

1. Tic-Tac-Toe must fit into 32k and not use a mass storage 
devise. 

2. Use any “learning” approach you can dream up. 

3. Program must start out ignorant—how long (how many 
games) does it take before the program wins 10 in a row? 

Peter Weiss 
COMSAT, Room 4051 
950 L’Enfant Plaza S.W. 
Washington, DC 20024 

Regarding People’s Computer Company 

Dear Editor: ^ 

Upon re-reading the articles on WUMPUS which you have 
so kindly published I noticed several remarks I made regarding 
People’s Computer Company and its staff. PCC was the 
birthplace of Wumpus and its first proving ground. The open 
and creative atmosphere and playful attitude towards com¬ 
puters at PCC allowed the generation of many computer games 
with truly new ideas. 

The creative ferment caused the strong expression of many 
viewpoints towards ideas. My remarks are meant as views I 
had towards certain IDEAS and are not meant to be taken 
personally. 

Gregory Yob 
Lo-Op Center 
8099 La Plaza 
Cotati, CA 94928 


8 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 







Four ways to get 

more out of (or into) 
your computer 


Here are four of our most popular computer peripherals. They let you do a lot more with your 
Altair 8800 or IMSAI 8080. They are simple to use and simple to install. And they all have the 
combined quality and low price that has made Cromemco the leading name in microcomputer 
peripherals. Cromemco’s delivery is prompt, too. 

Watch this space for other exciting new Cromemco products to come. 



The easy way to put programs into PROM. Cromemco’s 
Bytesaver™ gives you a place for up to 8K of PROM memory 
using 2704/2708 PROMs. Also gives you a built-in PROM 
programmer (saves buying one separately). Enough memory 
capacity to hold powerful programs such as 8K BASIC. Kit 
(Model 8KBS-K): $195. Assembled (Model 8KBS-W): $295. 



Let your color TV be your display terminal. You can have a 
full-color computer display terminal at unbelievably low cost 
with the Cromemco TV Dazzler™. You can display multi¬ 
colored charts, graphs, educational material, games. Requires 
only 2K-byte 'memory for 128 x 128-element picture. Kit 
(Model CGI-K): $215. Assembled (Model CGI-W): $?50. 



Fast analog I/O with 7 channels. Couples your digital com¬ 
puter to an analog world. This advanced board lets you 
input 7 channels of analog to your computer and output 7 
channels of analog to feed to output devices. Also has an 
8-bit parallel I/O port. Very fast conversion — only 5 micro¬ 
seconds. Kit (Model D + 7A-K): $145. Assembled (Model 
D + 7A-W): $245. 

JOYSTICK ALSO AVAILABLE: Kit (Model JS-1-K): $65. Assem¬ 
bled (Model JS-1-W): $95. 



Low-cost Optical Data Digitizer: This small, rugged camera is 
useful for image recognition, process control, and other 
industrial applications. Has f2.8 25-mm lens. Uses image 
sensors that produce 1024-element (32 x 32) picture. Con¬ 
troller boards also available to give software control of 
exposure, frame rate and memory allocations for picture 
storage. Camera kit (Model 88-ACC-K): $195. Controller kit 
(Model 88-CCC-K): $195. Camera assembled (Model 88- 
ACC-W): $295.Controller assembled (Model 88-CCC-W): $295 



Cromemco 

Specialists in computer peripherals 

2432 Charleston Rd., Mountain View, CA 94043 • (415) 964-7400 

















“Some men make artifacts. To date, 
artifacts haven’t made any men.” 

April 3, 1976 

Dear Editor: 

“A bird is an instrument working according to mathematical 
law.. 

Which, of course, is, manifestly untrue. Birds aren’t 
instruments, they’re birds (as da Vinci well knew); the 
statement shocks, and was meant to shock, precisely because 
this is so and known to be so. Otherwise one is simply saying 
that instruments are instruments which if unexceptionable is 
damn’ dull. 

We are dealing here with metaphor, the indispensable (if 
hazardous) tool of all science as it is of all poetry. We are 
attempting to describe on aspect of a real thing (“bird”) in 
terms of something else (“instrument”) which it is not. 

The power and the limits of metaphor, more particularly of 
its proper subset, analogy, were favorite discussion topics in 
the Medieval universities. The whole of theology, for example, 
hangs on this one peg. 

Our age hates metaphysic and pays the price: it blunders 
constantly into logical traps. What da Vinci is saying, I suspect, 
is this: with respect to those apparent regularities of nature that 
we like to call “laws”, a natural flying creature flies in the same 
universe as an artificial one. 

Whether merely understanding a natural entity infallibly 
leads to our replicating part of its behaviour with an artificial 
device I don’t know. Airplanes probably had to wait for a most 
unbirdlike engine and fuel before they could be invented; still, 
in the meantime a good deal of effort was wasted in the futile 
attempt to fly as birds do. If one excepts the lost work of Prof. 
Icarus of Greece, it appears that the ornithopter is not cost- 
effective. 

For that matter we still can’t fly as birds fly, nor do they fly 
by our methods. Helium-filled & rotating-wing species are rare 
birds in Rhode Island, and only in Aristophanes do they propel 
themselves by ejecting a jet stream from the backside. 

I rather think there’s a moral to this. 

M.I: The analogy between nature and artifact is a useful 
starting point that is quickly outgrown. Then it becomes 
a dead weight and generates fallacies. 

Computers are not human, which is why they are useful. 
There are plenty of humans around, after all. 

M.2: Statements made about one aspect of a thing become 
false when the qualifiers are removed. 

With reference to electrical shock, I once read that “a 
human being is a 50,000 ohm 1-watt resistor.” 

M.3: The claim that some man or some academic discipline 
possesses real “hard” knowledge undimmed by analogy 
or metaphor is self-contradictory. 

There are at least 4 metaphors involved in making such a 
claim! 

M.4: The curse of our age is the sundering of human culture, 
and human psychology, into the “two cultures”. This 
fragmentation is greatly accelerated by fallacies like M.3 
above. 

The result is to oppose one “hemisphere” (to use current 
mythology, against the other, one man against another, 
one branch of learning against its badly needed counter¬ 
poise. 

And so art will lose the love of order, structure, meaning 
and concrete reality which alone can give it form; and 
computer programming loses the intuitive, the aesthetic, 
the all-important criterion of elegance which — to me — 
is the only justification for programming at all. 

I am suggesting, in other words, that motorcycle 
maintenance and Zazen are alike prerequisites to Satori, to 
enlightenment. 

Digression: I weary of hearing that all programming depends 
on the ability to flowchart, in approved standard symbols, 
everything that a program will do. 

Respondeo Dicendum Quod (I reply that one must say: 
“—the standard Medieval prelude to taking a formal position 
on an issue): 

This pretty fable collapses in the face of reality. One never 
knows what the interaction will be between the actual coding 
process and one’s preconceived notion of structure or flow. I 
have never written a program or system of programs of any 
significant complexity without having a good many preconcep¬ 
tions shot to hell. Like electrical circuitry, the diagrams that 


matter are written after the thing is working — not before. 

And this, to me, is the educational value of programming! It 
is one of the rare places where the young are shaken out of the 
notion that we so sedulously force down their — alas — 
trusting throats, that there is an immediate “right answer" to 
every question; that Teacher knows it, or else has the special 
edition of the book with bound-in answers (never mind that a 
substantial fraction of them are wrong!); that wisdom consists 
in memorizing what Teacher says and imitating what he does. 

Well, I’ve never known a teacher who learned to program 
with half the ease of an average, if motivated, student. 

End Digression. 

Parting Thoughts: 

1. Another analogy to the processor, suggested by Travels in 
Computerland: the super-duper Lionel electric train set, the 
biggest and most expensive available toy! 

Surely no one believes that adults differ in kind from 
children? Children are as highly sexed as we are, they seek as 
we do challenge, interests, amusement in their games, and like 
us again they play sometimes with dangerous toys they cannot 
control. Or have we adults subjected to Pure Reason the bomb, 
the Presidency, napalm, “bugs”, radioactive waste or the pace 
and tempo of modern life? 

2. Re birds, most of the “birds” man has built were built to 
kill men; or (a more recent improvement) cities, nations, 
perhaps the whole planet. As for computers, they are a spinoff 
from aerospace, the most militarized of all industries. I don’t 
draw any immediate necessary conclusion, but a little sobriety 
seems called for. 

3. Some men make artifacts. To date, artifacts haven't made 
any men. To explain man by the machine, to explain Henry 
Ford by the Model T, is preposterous in the ancient sense 
(backwards). It ignores the orders of causality and of temporal 
sequence. It is somewhat more natural to proceed the other 
way, and to explain the work of art or of artifice by studying 
the artist or the artisan. 

4. Must “Creative” stoop to the arguement from scorn? Is it 
only a fool that thinks human knowledge “mystical” or 
mysterious, when it is the one thing that human knowledge 
inself can never quite know? 

Our own mind, after all, is not a “thing”: it is not something 
external to us, which we can observe and not contaminate by 
observation, nor colour by the interposition of self. 

Man pondering man is subject to all the self-referential 
paradoxes of Lord Russell, analyzed rather shrewdly by St. 
Gregory of Nazianzus some 1600 years before his modest 
Lordship named them for himself. 

So we compromise, as da Vinci did with his bird. We work 
by analogy, we analyze a part rather than the whole, But ruin 
awaits us if we drop those qualifiers! 

5. One cannot help noticing that hand-in-hand with the 
reduction of man to mechanics goes a new mysticism of its 
own, a deification of the machine. Have we come, then, to the 
worship of the works of our own hands? Has “left-hemisphere” 
rationality brought us full circle to idolatry? 

“Similes illis fiant qui faciunt ea”, as another page of your 
Gutenberg would show. Men who make idols become what 
they make: sub-humans. 

6. Is it too rash to suggest, instead, what your magazine cover 
carries so splendidly, the first words man set to movable type: 
In Principio erat Verbum. Before all else there was the Word 
... all things were made through it (or him) and apart from the 
Word was nothing made. In him was made Life, the light of 
man: the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness cannot 
overpower it. 

True, maybe; false, maybe; “mystical”, certainly. But foolish, 
surely. And yet is it altogether to be scorned? 

7. Remember, in parting, that someone once proved 
hummingbirds can’t possibly fly. This saves one from all sorts 
of observational error! 

8. Two quick thank-yous to your authors: 

A. “Information is in no sense truth” (and some of it is 
downright false). Amen 

B. The positive theme of your issue — the future of the 
computer is unforseeable, but certainly vast — is true & 
needs saying. 

Yours devotedly, 
(Rev. Dom) Geoffrey Chase 
O.S.B., S.T.L. 

Abbey 

Portsmouth RI 02871 
CREATIVE COMPUTING 


10 



BUY-SELL-RENT 

Teletypes—Telex—TWX—C R T 
Couplers—Decwriters—Terminals 
DATA RENTALS/SALES, INC. 

2919 So. La Cienega Blvd. • Culver City, Calif. 90230 
Phone (213) 559-3822 


WFF’N PROOF (logic) 13.00* 

QUERIES N THEORIES (logic) 13.00* 

EQUATIONS (mathematics) 10.00* 

ON-SETS (set theory) 10.00* 

PROPAGANDA (social studies) 11.00* 

ON-WORDS (word structures) 10.00* 

CONFIGURATIONS (geometry) 6.75* 

TRI-NIM (problem solving) 5.75* 

REAL NUMBERS (arithmetic) 2.25* 

WFF (beginner’s logic) 2.25* 

QWIK-SANE (topology puzzle) 2.25* 

TAC-TICKLE (pure strategy) 1.75* 

TEACHERS MANUAL 1.25* 

THINKERS BOOKENDS 16.00* 

Complete 12-Kit THINK TANK & Teachers Manual 
with bookends (save $10.75) 94.50* 

without bookends (save $4.75) 84.50* 


‘Includes postage and handling charges 

Order from: WFF ’N PROOF 
1490- DD South Blvd. 

Ann Arbor, Mi 48104 

Fully guaranteed. Dealer inquiries invited. 


Gifts that are a COMPLIMENT to receive! 


COMPUTER SCIENCE BOOKS 

NEW computer science books that secondary school 
students can easily read and understand. 

* Fun With Computers and BASIC 

* Accent on BASIC 

* Using BASIC in the Classroom 

* Flowcharting and BASIC 

* Understanding Computers 

* What Computers Can Do 

* Sixty Problems with BASIC Solutions 

* Computers in Number Theory 

* A Quick Look at BASIC 

* Problems for Computer Solution 
For information on these books write: 

CAMELOT PUBLISHING COMPANY, P.O.Box 1357, 
Ormond Beach, Florida 32074. 


MURPHY’S LAWS! 

Incomparable “scientific” wit. Colorfully 
lithographed on 8" x 10" heavy Parchtext 
for framing. A great business or personal 
gift! Only $3 (4/$10). Four Corners 
Press, Dept. CCA, Hanover, Mass. 
02339. 



hcme-ofMce-school-park-club-churches-laboratory 


Unique instructional games designed by university 
professors to make learning fun through brainto- 
brain action. Beginning games can be mastered by 
young children—final games will challenge intelli¬ 
gent adults. These are the famous GAMES FOR 
THINKERS from WFF ’N PROOF Publishers. 


Plant a THINK TANK anywhere 
and watch the minds grow! 



11 

SEP-OCT 1 976 




T Shirts! 


T-Shirts available in adult sizes S, M, L; 
XL. All cotton, made in USA. $4.00 each 
postpaid in USA, $5.00 to foreign ad¬ 
dresses. Send order (specifying design and 
size) with payment to Creative Computing, 
P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 07960. 
Allow 8 weeks for delivery. 














CREATIVE COMPUTING Editorial 


Instructional Computing 
In Schools — 

How, When, What? 


by David Ahl 


The survey completed by the American Institutes for Re¬ 
search in 1975 projects that every secondary school in the 
USA will have computer access by 1984 (appropriate datel). 
But what kind of access? And, more important, will it really 
be used to advantage? 

Personally, I am appalled at what I see in numerous 
schools that think of themselves as having a computer 
available for instruction. For example, one local school has 
an IBM 1130 and one computer science course. In the 
course, the students "write” (really copy) three canned 
FORTRAN programs which they then keypunch (Wow!) and 
give to an operator to run. They get results 3 days later, this 
is computer education?? 

I strongly believe that schools should align their educa¬ 
tion more closely with what will be found in the real world 
when their students get out. In other words, schools should 
be at the leading edge of the state of the art instead of 
lagging it by 10 to 20 years because of imagined cost 
constraints. 

What this means in concrete terms isthat schools should 
have one or more timesharing terminalsto a powerful large 
or medium scale system with ability to manipulate very 
large problems. Secondly, they should have a terminal into 
an information network such as Lockheed Dialog or the NY 


Times Data Bank. Third, they should have a variety of mini- 
and microprocessor systems around for all sorts of things. 
Indeed for under $1000 a school could build a new MPU kit 
or two every yearl Just think, if the same $5500 per year 
that the average school spends on one timesharing 
terminal were put toward kits, after 5 years, the school 
would own 25 working computer systems. 

The advantage of building a computer kit are many-fold. 
It's a project that can be done jointly between the vo-tech 
classes and the math and science classes. Those students 
who want to get involved with the nitty-gritty of the hard¬ 
ware have an opportunity to do so; students who want to 
write operating systems, compilers and interpreters can do 
so; and when the system is finished you have a nice BASIC¬ 
speaking computer for everyone to use. 

Schools should also attempt to assemble a wide variety of 
devices and peripherals such as A/D and D/A converters, 
music synthesizers, audio cassette recorders and inter¬ 
faces, TV interfaces and character generators, plotters, etc. 

Only by having a full range of computer access (both 
remote and local), hands-on hardware and systems, and 
variety of related equipment will students begin to get the 
education they'll need to utilize the tremendous computer 
power that will be theirs in the 1980's. 


An Ideal? 

Here's my personal idea of the ideal computer facilities 
for an average high school in 1976-77 — DHA. 


1 hard copy and 1 CRT 
terminal to comprehensive 
timesharing system 

1 printing CRT terminal to 
information network 

1 terminal with 

animated graphics 

1 BASIC Language 
calculator with plotter or 
CRT graphics 

1 mini (kit) with 
audio cassette, terminal 
and TV driver 

1 mini (kit) with 
A/D, D/A, Music 
Synthesizer 


DEC LA-36 and 
Hazeltine 1000 to On- 
Line Systems Timesharing. 

Dataspeed 40 to Lockheed 
DIALOG. 

General Turtle TT250 

HP 9830A with printer and 
plotter or Tektronix 4051 

Altair 8800 (8K), ASR 33, 
Chromemco TV dazzler 


SWTP 6800, Performer 
Music Synthesizer 



"Rotated Infinity" by Tony (Core Dump) Martin 


12 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 




















- We Design - 

Educational 
Computer Systems 



School Computers are special. 

More than hardware is necessary. 

Instructional programs must exist 
in a wide range of disciplines. 

Administrative software must be created 
for unique requirements in education. 

Students and administrators should be able 
to work simultaneously and independently. 

Operating systems must provide excellent security. 

Most importantly, the company providing the 
system must be an educational specialist. 

Be able to determine your unique needs, 
funnel information from other users, 
train people, on-site if necessary, 
create new educational software, 
and provide continuous support 
even after the installation. 

A FIVE (5) TERMINAL TIMESHARING SYSTEM WITH 
DISKETTE STORAGE IS UNDER $20,000. 


COMPLETE SYSTEMS START AT $5,915. 


Please call me about the following system: 


□ Low Cost 

□ Medium Scale Timesharing 

□ Administrative 

□ Instructional and Administrative 

Name_Title 



corporation 


School- 

Address 


196 Trumbull Street 
Hartford, Connecticut 06103 
(203) 728-6777 


City. 


State 


Phone- 


Zip. 
































CDKIPLEflT 

COMPUTER 

CfITflLDGliE 



We welcome entries from readers for 
the “Compleat Computer Catalogue” on 
any item related, even distantly, to 
computers. Please include the name of 
the item, a brief evaluative description, 
price, and complete source data. If it is an 
item you obtained over one year ago, 
please check with the source to make sure 
it is still available at the quoted price. 

Send contributions to “The Compleat 
Computer Catalogue,” Creative Comput¬ 
ing , P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 
07960. 


BOOKS AND 
BOOKLETS 


A.I. BIBLIOGRAPHY 

A comprehensive bibliography listing 334 
papers, 7 books, and 29 technical reports 
produced over the years at the MIT A.l. 
Laboratory is available. Lists extensive 
material on LISP, LOGO, PLANNER, 
robots, etc. Sources of the publications are 
noted. Ask for A.L Memo No. 191, updated 
June 1975. 

MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, 
Room 812, 545 Technology Square, Cam¬ 
bridge, MA 02139 



FREE MONEY? 

Well, almost free. The 1975-1976 Annual 
Register of Grant Support is an index to 
more than 2,500 sources of nonrepayable 
financial aid from a wide variety of sources. 
It's 600 pages long and $47.50, so you may 
need a grant just to buy this book! A similar 
book, entitled The Directory of Publishing 
Opportunities, is a guide to publications 
which accept work from outside sources. 
The directory is 700 pages and $44.50. 

Marquis Academic Media, 200 East Ohio 
Street, Chicago, Illinois 60611 


MICROPROCESSORS 
IN EDUCATION 

This is a bibliography and directory of 
manufacturers, articles, and other material 
on microprocessors, microcomputers, and 
small general-purpose computers. It covers 
hardware, software, interfacing, etc. Unfor¬ 
tunately, the field is moving so fast that a 
bibliography becomes quickly dated. 
Nevertheless, this booklet (dated Feb. 1976) 
will bring you up to date through 1975. 

(I confess to having mixed feelings about 
this booklet. They list 36 magazines carrying 
material related to microprocessors in 
education including ones like American 
Laboratory, Iron Age, and Machine Design 
but do not list Creative Computing. One 
wonders. . . —DHA) 

Oregon Council for Computer Education, 
4015 S.W. Canyon Road, Portland, OR 
97221 



THE BEST OF ZEPHYROS 

Zephyros started in 1971 as a non-profit 
group of teachers, parents, and artists in San 
Francisco with the intent to produce and 
print their own textbooks to improve on the 
sterile offerings of the major publishers. 
Collecting and printing ideas developed and 
used by classroom teachers in the past 4 
years, they have reached over 46,000 
teachers many of whom have contributed 
ideas to the 17 Deschool Primers produced 
by Zephyros to date. Zephyros is a rare 
trading post of ideas that really work. This 
oversize (11x16"), 308-page book is a 
collection of 300 of the best of those eventful, 
creative lesson plans. Edited by the most 
creative one of all, Ron Jones. $10.00. 
Zephyros catalog $1.00. 

Zephyros, 1201 Stanyan St., San Fran¬ 
cisco, C A 94117 

PROGRESSIVE TECHNOLOGY 

This group publishes a list of periodicals 
for “Progressive Scientists” (read 
“Radical”). Covers a wide range of 
magazines and newsletters Free. 

Progressive Technology, P.O. Box 20049, 
Tallahasee, Florida 32304 


POCKET CALCULATOR 
BUYER'S GUIDE 

A new 32-page brochure, “Pocket 
calculator Buyer's Guide,” is now available 
free from the Hewlett-Packard Company. 
The brochure describes and gives 
specifications for the company's full line of 
preprogrammed and programmable pocket 
calculators for science, engineering, 
business, finance and education from the 
new HP21 to the original HP65. Guide is 
free. 

Inquiries Manager, Hewlett-Packard 
Company, 1501 Page Mill Road, Palo Alto, 
CA 94304 



COMPUTER MANPOWER- 
SUPPLY AND DEMAND 

A 39 page booklet by John W. Hamblen. 
This publication explains what types of jobs 
are available in data processing and where 
(geographically) the jobs will be in the 
future. Also contains extensive statistics on 
where to get a post-secondary education in 
computer science. While this isn’t exactly the 
kind of reading you can't put down until you 
finish, it is something which should be in 
every high school guidance department. $10 
for educational institutions and $25 to 
everyone else. 

Information Systems Consultants, R.R. 1, 
Box 256A, St. James, MO 65559 


BRIEFING ON THE IMPACT OF 
PRIVACY LEGISLATION 

A 65 page booklet published by the Data 
Processing Management Association. While 
this booklet is a little heavy, it is definitely 
worthwhile reading. It consists of commen¬ 
taries and interviews of people both in and 
out of government. Some of the ‘privacy 
horror stories' are so shockingly absurd, 
they're almost funny, (as long as they're not 
happening to you)! $15.95. 

Data Processing Management Associa¬ 
tion, 505 Busse Highway, Park Ridge, 
Illinois 60068 


14 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 









FINITE STATE 
FANTASIES 

By Richard Didday 

A programmer oriented and 
directed piece of foolishness 
designed to produce a chuckle and 
will no doubt hit some exposed 
nerves in the process. 

Price: $2.25 


MICROCOMPUTER 
DICTIONARY & GUIDE 

Charles J. Sippl and David Kidd 

This new microcomputer dic¬ 
tionary fills the urgent need for all 
communications people, computer 
people, engineers, scientists and 
industrialists to become quickly 
familiar with the terminology and 
nomenclature in a new revolution 
in computer control capabilities. 

Over 8000 definitions and ex¬ 
planations of terms and concepts 
(704 pages) relating to 
microprocessors, microcomputers 
and microcontrollers. There are 
also separate appendices on: 
programmable calculators; math 
and statistics definitions; flowchart 
symbols and techniques; binary 
number systems and switching 
theory; symbol charts and tables; 
summaries of BASIC FORTRAN 
and APL. In addition there is a 
comprehensive electronics/com¬ 
puter abbreviations and acronyms 
section. 

Price: $17.95 


ANALYSIS AND 
DESIGN OF DIGITAL 
CIRCUITS 

Paul M. Chirlian 

An excellent text for use in a first 
course in Digital Circuits and 
Systems. Provides the Electrical 
Engineering student with the basic 
ideas of switching theory and will 
also provide him with an under¬ 
standing of the total operation of 
the complete computer system. 
The topics of digital electronics 
and computer interfacing are also 
considered. In addition, the ideas 
discussed provide a fundamental 
understanding of microprocessors 
and minicomputers. 

Price: $16.95 


CALCULATOR USER’S 
GUIDE AND 
DICTIONARY 

By Charles J. Sippl 

Contains comprehensive sections 
on (1) what’s available in program¬ 
mable calculators in today’s 
market — including comparisons 
(2) how to use most units ranging 
in price from $50 to $3000 (3) a 
7000 term dictionary section 
relating to calculators. 

Programmable calculators are 
now the keyboard computers for 
the masses — easily understood 
and usable by anyone who knows 
the terminology — students, 
businessmen, professionals, etc. 
However, you would be wise to buy 
a calculator ONLY AFTER 
READING THIS BOOK! Approx. 
550 pages in all. 

Price: $9.95 


PROGRAMMABLE 

CALCULATORS 

By Charles J . Sippl 

Written at an understandable level, 
this handy reference is designed 
for anyone interested in 
calculators. This is a pragmatic 
“how to use what’s available” book 
on a difficult-to-understand sub¬ 
ject. This reference offers a 16 
page appendix of glossary terms 
as well as an appendix of clearly- 
defined capabilities of products 
available in the market place. A 
complete guide to the industry as 
well as a tutorial book. Available 
fall of 1976. Approximately 300 
pages. 

Price: $8.95 



MATRIX PUBLISHERS, INC. 

Dept. CC, 207 Kenyon Rd., Champaign, IL 61820 

Please send me book(s) checked below under your 15 day no risk trial guarantee. If pay¬ 
ment accompanies order, we pay all shipping and handling charges. (III. customers add 
5% sales tax) 

□ Microcomputer Dictionary □ Calculator Users Guide □ Finite State Fantasies 
□ Analysis and Design of Digital Circuits □ Programmable Calculators 

Name _ 

Address ___ 

City _ State _ Zip _ 















COMPUTERIZED TEACHING IN 
THE HEALTH SCIENCES 

This 200 page book is the most complete 
and up-to-date collection of information 
about computerized teaching materials in 
the health sciences. It contains information 
on 300 instructional units or programs 
intended for students of medicine, dentistry, 
nursing, pharmacy, and other health 
sciences disciplines. It covers about 750 
hours of teaching materials, and includes 
key-word indexes for subject matter, author, 
programming language, and source institu¬ 
tion. It is published by the Health Sciences 
Interest Group of ADCIS, and costs $4.50 
per copy. Make checks payable to “ADCIS- 
HSIG.” 

HSIG Treasurer, 2114 Mason Hill Drive, 
Alexandria, Virginia 22306. 



AFIPS BOOKLETS 

Two booklets are available from AFIPS 
of interest to educators: 

“AFIPS Press Publications” lists NCC 
Proceedings and a wide range of books from 
AFIPS, the 15 constituent societies, 
American Elsevier, and Hayden. Free. 

“All you ever wanted to know about 
AFIPS constituent societies (but never could 
, Find in one place)” provides exactly what the 
title says. Free. 

American Federation of Information 
Processing Societies, 210 Summit Ave., 
Montvale, NJ 07645 

HOBBYIST HARDWARE 
EXCHANGE 

On-Line is a small magazine consisting of 
nothing but classified ads, both commercial 
and individual. Mostly ads for hardware 
hobbyist items, some club listings and 
meeting schedules. The publisher, D.H. 
Beetle, guarantees that every issue will carry, 
at least 6 pages of ads, otherwise he’ll count it 
only as a partial issue. Comes out every three 
weeks. Trial 4-issue subscription $1.00, 1- 
year (18 issues) $3.75. 

On-Line, 24695 Santa Cruz Highway, Los 
Gatos, CA 95030 

AMATEUR COMPUTER 
SOCIETY NEWSLETTER 

The oldest of all the hobbyist newsletters, 
this one dates from “the good old days” when 
hobbyists built computers from scrapped 
650s, G-15s, and military guidance com¬ 
puters. It now covers kits, chips, and reader 
experiences. This 6 to 8 page mimeo 
newsletter appears every 2 to 3 months. 
Editor is Steve Gray, digital and audio editor 
of Popular Electronics and frequent con-, 
tributor to Creative Computing. $5.00 buys 
you membership in the Society plus 10 to 12 
newsletters over a 2-year period. 

Stephen B. Gray, Amateur Computer 
Society, 260 Noroton Ave., Darien, CT 
06820 



learn something new from this book. A 
useful reference, though. Includes index. 

Taylor Associates, 59 Middlesex Turn¬ 
pike, Bedford, MA 01730. Price unknown. 



MICROCOMPUTER DESIGN 

A rather technical 400-page book aimed at 
engineers designing microprocessors into 
other products. Could also be used as a 
college text or by advanced hobbyists. Full 
schematics and circuit descriptions are 
included for the 8080-based CPU of the 
MIKE 3 microcomputer from Martin 
Research. Microcomputer Design book 
$25.00; literature or the MIKE 3 and 
Modular Micro Series free. 

Martin Research, 3336 Commercial Ave., 
Northbrook, IL 60062 

1C CATALOG 

Cybertronics new catalog covers a broad 
spectrum of ICs and related devices (TTL 
DIPS, CMOS, Amplifiers, VRs, 
Microprocessors, etc.). Also sockets, 
wirewrap stuff, prototyping boards, and 
capacitors. Catalog free. 

Cybertronics, P.O. Box 18065, Louisville, 
KY 40218 


1C, VIDEO GAME KIT CATALOG 

Jade Company’s new catalog has a 
complete listing of ICs (TTL, CMOS, 
Linear) as well as discrete components 
(transistors, diodes, etc.). [Prices are about 
as low as I’ve seen—DH A] Catalog also lists 
a video game kit ($137.50) that plays 5 
interesting games. Catalog free. 

Jade Co., P.O. Box 4246, Torrance, CA 
90510 


MAGAZINES, 
JOURNALS, 
NEWSLETTERS 

SWTPC6800 

COMPUTER NEWSLETTER 



A new newsletter for users of Southwest’s 
M6800 system. The first issue (June 1976) 
contained the source code for Tiny BASIC 
on the M6800, and the machine code for 
Blackjack. The newsletter also told where to 
get games such as Hangman, Mastermind, 
and “Klingon Capture” (whatever that is) for 
the 6800. Printed and mailed free to all 
M6800 owners and clubs. 

Southwest Technical Products, 219 W. 
Rhapsody, San Antonio, TX 78216 

COMPUTE/115 


SUPERMARKETSCANNING 
ANDYOU 

An eight page booklet which explains the 
advantages of the Universal Price Code— 
those black and white bars which now 
appear on almost everything you pick up at 
the supermarket. As can be expected, this 
booklet tends to minimize or completely 
ignore the disadvantages of the UPC. 
Moderately interesting, though. 

NCR Corporation, Main and K Streets, 
Dayton, Ohio 45479 


This newsletter is sponsored by National 
Semiconductor and is produced by COM¬ 
PUTE (Club of Microprocessor 
Programmers, Users, and Technical Ex¬ 
perts). Since it is so highly oriented toward 
National and its products (half the 
newsletter seems to be N.S. spec sheets) it 
may not be too interesting to people who 
aren’t using National microprocessors. 
Membership is $15 and also includes listings 
of user library programs. Printed monthly. 

COMPUTE/115 National Semiconduc¬ 
tor, 2900 Semiconductor Drive, Santa 
Clara, CA 95051 


THE CALCULUS WITH ANALYTIC 
GEOMETRY TEXTBOOK 


This 56 page booklet by Joseph R. Taylor 
is not intended as a replacement for a 
standard text, but merely as a supplement to 
one. However you may find it to be a 
powerful tool in itself since a wide range of 
hard-to-remember theorems and problem 
solving methods are put at your fingertips. 
Since explanations are short and sometimes 
a bit abstruse, it would be difficult to try to 


sees INTERFACE 

A newsletter-turned-magazine written by 
the Southern California Computer Society. 
Seems to be mostly hardware oriented and 
largely reprints. To get Interface you must 
join SCCS—membership is $10/year. 

Southern California Computer Society, 
PO Box 987, South Pasadena, CA 91030 


16 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 



















ALTERNATIVE SOURCES 
OFENERGY 

A.S.E. is a quarterly magazine for people 
concerned with the development of alter¬ 
native technologies for a decentralized 
society. Emphasis is on alternative en¬ 
vironmental technologies in the fields of 
energy sources, agriculture, transportation, 
and communication. It is written by people 
who are directly involved with these ideas. 
A.S.E. also functions as a communications 
network and maintains a lending library. 
Besides printing the quarterly, A.S.E. also 
publishes special booklets on various topics, 
the most recent of these being Kilowatt 
Counter: A Consumer’s Guide to Energy 
Concepts , Quantities, and Uses. $5 for four 
issues. 

A.S.E. Subscriptions, Route 2, Box 90A, 
Milaca, MN 56353 



NASA FACTS 

In contrast to the abounding negative 
publicity about the space program, this 
magazine explains some of its positive 
aspects, and also tells what NASA is 
involved in now. The June 1975 issue (stock 
number 033-000-00618-7) has some very 
timely stuff in it about the Viking Mission to 
Mars. There are lots of good color pictures 
and diagrams. 

NASA Facts can be obtained from the 
Superintendent of Documents, U.S. 
Government Printing Office, Washington, 
DC 20402, for 50c. 



COMMUNICATIONS 

TOMORROW 

This newsletter is printed by the Special 
Studies Division of the World Future 
Society and edited by the talented Wes 
Thomas. Interesting reading; the first issue 
(April 1976) had short articles on such topics 
as satellites for people, fiber optics systems, 
and computer conferencing. Published 
bimonthly. Subscriptions as $9 per year. 

World Future Society, 4916 Elmo 
Avenue, Washington, DC 20014 

DR. DOBBS JOURNAL 

The principle purpose of this xeroxed 
newsletter is to promote the writing and 
distribution of free software written for and 
by amateur computer users—in the form of 
Tiny BASIC. The first issue contained the 
entire machine code for Tiny BASIC on an 
8080 system and information on how to 


interface a scientific calculator chip to an 
8008. This newsletter recently eliminated 
“Tiny BASIC” from its name and is now 
titled Dr. Dobb’s Journal of Computer 
Calisthenics and Orthodontia. The inten¬ 
tion is to widen out to include other “Tiny” 
languages. Since many people can’t afford 
all the newsletters out on the market today, 
DDJCC&O will carry reprints of useful 
articles from other sources. 

People’s Computer Company, Box 310, 
Menlo Park, CA 94025. A year’s subscrip¬ 
tion (10 issues) is $10 and single copies are 
$1.50 


LEARNING 

AIDS 


CARDBOARD COMPUTER 

Cardiac, the Cardboard Illustrative Aid to 
Computation, is a cardboard device 
developed by Bell Laboratories which can be 
used to introduce students and adults to 
fundamental computing principles. Cardiac 
has 100 words of memory, a single ac¬ 
cumulator, and 10 two-address instructions. 
It can be used to demonstrate loops, 
indexing, subroutines, double precision, and 
comes with a 53 page manual. $4.95. 

Comspace, 350 Great Neck Rd., Far- 
mingdale, NY 11735 



THE MATH GROUP 

This company produces learning aids such 
as puzzles, posters, and word games. The 
materials they offer are designed to make 
learning fun. Free catalog. 

The Math Group, Inc., 396 East 79th 
Street, Minneapolis, MN 55420 

LEARNING ACTIVITY 
PACKAGES 

These three learning activity packages 
were developed by John Gindele, a veteran 
teacher at Plymouth Junior High School 
near Minneapolis. They are self- 
instructional packets designed to introduce 
7th grade industrial arts students to the 
computer 

Introduction to Computers — Explains 
what a computer is and traces the develop¬ 
ment of computers from before Babbage’s 
“Analytical Engine” to modern day 
technology. 22 pages. 

Introduction to Timesharing and the 
BASIC Language —This LAP discusses 
what timesharing and BASIC are, but 
doesn’t get into any programming concepts. 
13 pages. 

Using the Computer to Figure the Cost of 
Your Industrial Arts Project —As Mr. 
Gindele suggests, this package is a little more 
limited to use in the industrial 
arts/ mathematics area. While it does explain 
how to log on, get and run a program, and 


log off, the packet is oriented towards using a 
Honeywell 1648 with a TTY and acoustic 
coupler and is somewhat limited in 
applications with other systems and terminal 
types. 18 pages. 

These LAP’S are $3.50 each or $7.75 for all 
three and some additional material. Send for 
a free catalog describing these and other 
LAPS to EDU-PAC of Minnesota, Box 
27101, Dept. 76, Minneapolis, Minn. 55427 

(A more complete review of this will 
appear in the future in Creative Computing.) 



QUIZ KID CALCULATOR 

Here’s a new kind of calculator. There’s no 
place for an answer to appear! Instead, a 
youngster enters a problem such as “9 x 2=?” 
and then punches in the answer s/ he believes 
to be correct. If 18 is entered to the problem 
above, the owl’s green eye will light; any 
other answer gets a red eye.Watch your kid’s 
eyes light up with this one! It really makes 
dull arithmetic an enjoyable game at a very 
economical price. Complete with coloring 
book chock full of elementary arithmetic 
puzzles and carrying pouch. $17.95 plus 
$2.50 shipping. 

National Semiconductor Electronics, 

1177 Kern Ave., Sunnyvale, CA 94086 

GLOBAL FUTURES GAME 

A dynamic simulation of present and 
future world conditions in terms of popula¬ 
tion, food technology, education, and 
relative growth rates of each. Groups of 
players representing eight socio-economic 
world regions barter for resources in five 
year rounds ending in the year 2020. Players 
make collective policy decisions and errors 
are reflected in “World Destruct Points.” 
Hopefully the players will gain insight into 
the interconnectedness of world problems 
and their solution. The game can be played 
by 8 to 48 high school or college students in 
two hours. The game is $10 and extra 
scoresheets are $5 for 48. 

Earthrise, Box 120, Annex Station, 
Providence, RI 02901 

MATHIPUTER 

A “Mathiputer” is a rugged calculator 
type device which can be used in classrooms 
to teach addition, subtraction, multiplica¬ 
tion, and division. However, instead of 
supplying the answer, the student is asked a 
problem which he must solve. A correct 
answer will cause a “happy face” to appear, 
and a “sad face” indicates an incorrect 
response. Prices range from $199.50 to 
$324.50 for one which times responses. 

Cybernetic Systems, Inc., 9615 Acoma 
Southeast, Albuquerque, NM 97123 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


17 









A Creative Computing Equipment Profile ... 

HEWLETT PACKARD 
SSI 5A 

PROGRAMMABLE 

CALCULATOR 

by David Ettel 
6015 36th Ave. NE 
Seattle, WA 98115 


A person unfamiliar with or not interested in howto build 
his/her own computer system may be interested in a 
programmable calculator (a what?! — a programmable 
calculator — you can't hold it in your hand; it can be 
programmed; it has a few memory registers, a printer, and 
can be hooked up to many different peripheral devices). 
Recently I had the pleasure of evaluating (playing) with the 
brand new, just off the shelf, HP 9815A programmable 
calculator and immediately fell in love with it (some 
jealousy has arisen in certain quarters). It is, in the words of 
my boss, 'darling' — by which I understand her to mean — 
sleek (13x13 inches - 4 inches high) and compact (13 
pounds). The 16 character/line thermal printer (numeric, 
alpha, and a few special characters) and cartridge system, 
both of which are built in, add to the character of the 
machine. 

The 9815A uses a keyboard language (i.e. commands are 
entered by using the proper key on the keyboard) which is 
more effecient (fewer steps are required to do something) 
than any other programmable calculator I have seen. Some 
of the commands are: 

GO TO 

GO SUB / RETURN 

FOR NEXT loops 

STORE into a register 

RECALL from a register 

IF statements for conditional branching 

24 scientific functions are also included along with the four 
basic arithmetic keys. Once entered,programs may be 
edited or stepped through. Editing includes inserting, 
deleting and changing of instructions. GO TO's and 
GO SUB's using absolute addresses are automatically 
updated when inserting or deleting. 

The programs are stored in the program memory. The 
basic machine contains 472 program steps with an option 
to have that increased to 2008 steps. Storage registers are 
created by assigning 8 steps of program memory to be a 
main storage register. Thus memory can be divided 
between program memory and data register memory 
depending on the application. 

472 steps or even 2008 steps may seem like a serious 
constraint, but this problem is taken care of by the unique 
cartridge system. Using cartridges which can hold 96,000 
program steps or 12,000 data registers, the effective 
memory size of the 9815A is enlarged enormously. The 
cartridge system uses bi-directional search to locate a 
specified data set. Search speed is 60 inches/second. 
Read/write speed is 10 inches/second. The compact 
cartridge contains 140 feet of tape. Two tracks are used for 
recording information. With the cartridge system programs 



can be segmented - one program can call another program 
from the tape and pass control to that program. Called 
programs can overlay the calling program. Also, data may 
be stored and recalled from the tape. Program size and data 
register memory size are therefore not severly limited. 

Peripherals include a plotter, a digitizer, paper tape 
reader, thermal page printer, and paper tape punch. The 
plotter would be nice for games. 

It seems to me that the programmable calculator may be 
the closest thing to a computer system (core, operating 
system, software, printer, off-line storage) for a reasonable 
price - reasonable for the HP 9815A being $2900. I'd be 
interested in knowing what a comparable do-it-yourself 
system would cost - then I could make an intelligent 
decision about what goes on my Christmas list next year. 

(More information on the 981 5A including brochure and 
technical data sheets are available from Inquiries Manager, 
Hewlett Packard, 1 501 Page Mill Road, Palo Alto, CA 94304 
or from your local HP office. 


18 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 






V 


The Modem Little Red Hen. 



Once upon a time, there was a little red hen who 
scratched about the barnyard until she uncovered 
some grains of wheat. She called her neighbors and 
said, “If we plant this wheat, we shall have bread 
to eat. Who will help me plant it?” 

u Not I” said the cow. 

“Not I” said the duck. 

“Not I” said the pig. 

“Not I’,’ said the goose. 

“Then I will;’ said the little red hen. And she 
did. The wheat grew tall and ripened into golden 
grain. “Who will help me reap my wheat?” asked 
the little red hen. 

“Not I,” said the duck. 

“Out of my classification^ said the pig. 

“I’d lose my. seniority,” said the cow. 

“I’d lose my unemployment compensation” said 
the goose. 

“Then I will” said the little red hen, and she did. 


At last it came time to bake the bread. “Who will 
help me bake the bread?” asked the little red hen. 

“That would be overtime for me’,’ said the cow. 

“I’d lose my welfare benefits;’ said the duck. 

“I’m a dropout and never learned how” said 
the pig. 

“If I’m to be the only helper, that’s discrimina¬ 
tion” said the goose. 

“Then I will” said the little red hen. 

She baked five loaves and held them up for her 
neighbors to see. 

They all wanted some and, in fact, demanded a 
share. But the little red hen said, “No, I can eat the 
five loaves myself!’ 

“Excess profits!” cried the cow. 

“Capitalist leech!” screamed the duck. 

“I demand equal rights!” yelled the goose. 

And the pig just grunted. And they painted 
“unfair” picket signs and marched round and round 
the little red hen, shouting obscenities. 

When the government agent came, he said to the 
little red hen, “You must not be greedy.” 

“But I earned the bread;’ said the little red hen. 

“Exactly,” said the agent. “That is the wonderful 
free enterprise system. Anyone in the barnyard can 
earn as much as he wants. But under our modern 
government regulations, the productive workers 
must divide their product with the idle!’ 

And they lived happily ever after, including the 
little red hen, who smiled and clucked, “I am 
grateful. I am grateful!’ 

But her neighbors wondered why she never 
again baked any more bread. 


At the conclusion of the required business of the 1975 Pennwalt Annual 
Meeting, Chairman and President William P Drake, commenting on the 
state of the company in today's economy, read this, his own adaptation of a 
modem version of the well-known fable of The Little Red Hen. 


For 125 years we’ve been making things people need-including profits. 

ISPENMALT 

CORPORATION 

Three Parkway. Philadelphia, Pa. 19102 
Chemicals • Health Products • Specialized Equipment 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


19 




















TOWARD THE ELECTRIC SYMBOL 


by Robert E. Mueller* 

Britton House 
Roosevelt, NJ 08555 

Computer art is conditioning us for a radical new way to 
think. I call this new process the electric symbol, an entirely 
new medium for future mathematics and science. But it 
begins as art. The play instinct of the human mind takes up 
any novelty and plays around with it for eons before it can 
take on human meaning. Computer art is at a very early 
stage of the evolution of the electric symbol. 

For example, long before Rene Descartes conceived 
Analytic Geometry mathematicians played around with 
geometric patterning that appeared to have little mathe¬ 
matical or scientific significance. The Greek preoccupation 
with conic sections and infinitely-divisible geometries led to 
many pre-mathematical insights — calculus was trying to 
burst out of their thinking, but it had to take many years 
before it saw the light of day as a strict discipline. Geometers 
in Descartes time invented many curves for the sake of pure 
beauty. They even named them: Witches of Agnesi, Devils 
on Two Sticks, Hippopedes, Cocked Hats, Anallagmatics, 
Cissoids, Foliums, Horopters, Loxodromes, Pseudo- 
versieras — all names we could easily give to modern 
computer art. Later all of these curves took on scientific 
significance in dynamics, magnetism, and electric circuits. 

We do not yet understand where our computer art is 
leading. This is because, I think, we have not yet assimilated 
the vast array of visual forms made possible with the 
computer. As art — that is serious visual art like Leonardo's 
drawings, Rembrandt's etchings, Picasso's abstractions — 
computer art is little more than elaborate design. [See my 
article "Idols of Computer Art" in the May 1972 issue of Art 
in America if you want to pursue this suggestion further.] 
But as a precondition for future mathematics and a new 
mode of electric symbolization, I think that computer art is 
extremely important. 

Imagine, for example, a future mathematician or scientist 
bent on mathematical theorization sitting down to a video¬ 
computer CRT console with a probe as his pencil. He no 
longer writes mathematical equations on a two-dimen¬ 
sional surface, using a pencil. Instead he writes into a visual 
space whose geometry can be very complex. His sym¬ 
bolization is not formed out of letters or numbers; out of 
simple marks such as plus, times, integral signs, or matrices 
limited by the pencil-and-paper medium. Instead he has the 
complete electric freedom to invent new multi-dimen¬ 
sional symbols in a deep video space — it can even partake 
of the entire color spectrum! 

Symbolization can proceed in a new way, and computer 
art forms may ultimately provide keys that will help unlock 
these new ways to symbolize. The play of computer forms, 
the designs and beautiful doodles of computer art, take on 
certain recognizable characteristics. As you look over the art 
in* this book**, try to categorize the art yourself: symmetries 
within symmetries, sinusoidal variations, planes in move¬ 
ment, multispatial flows, and so on. The future use — the 
mathematical evolution of a truly novel way to symbolize in 
this electric medium — will depend upon your condition¬ 
ing to them. Perhaps you will be able, like Descartes, to call 
them to mathematical and scientific account, and help give 
birth to the new electric symbol of the future. 


♦Robert Mueller is the author of the book, “The Science of Art,” Day, New 
York, 1967. 

♦♦“Artist and Computer" edited by Ruth Leavitt. Available for $4.95 plus 75c 
handling from Creative Computing Press, P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 
07960. 


D 

°D ■■■E 


■ 

\E\ 

u 


□ 

jD 

rn 

r 

rr 


□ 

r 



£ 

□□ 


□ 

D 


■ ■«DCOnH3D 

DDIGBII 
■■□■■O Dice 

□□□ □■□■■ 

■ ■! 


“Computer leone" by Vera Molnar 



20 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 



















CREATIVE COMPUTING ORDER FORM 

A. MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS 


Creative Computing (Bi-monthly) 

- Institutional \ Any 

- Institutional • country 

1-Year 

$15 

3-Year 

$40 

- Individual i MCfl _ . 

_ Individual / ^A only 

1-Year 

$ 8 

3-Year 

$21 

- Individual \ r- nn 

- Individual ' Foreign 

1-Year 

$10 

3-Year 

$27 

- Bulk (10-24 copies) 

1-Year 

$ 7 

- Bulk 25-99 copies) 

1-Year 

$ 6 

- Bulk (100 copies) 

1-Year 

$ 5 


Creative Computing and Byte (Save 10%) 

USA - 1-Year $18 _ 3-Year $46 

Foreign: - 1-Year $23 _ 3-Year $61 

Byte 

-1-Year $12 _3-Year $30 

Games &Puzzles_ 

-1-Year $12 _3-Year $36 


TOTALPARTA 


B. BACK ISSUES, POSTERS, PRINTS, T-SHIRTS 


Quart. Description Price 

Creative Computing back issues: 

Volume 1 (see book order form below) 

_ Vol. 2, No. 1 Games and Puzzles $1.50 

__ Vol. 2, No. 2 Artificial Intelligence $1.50 

_ Vol. 2, No. 5 Diverse Subjects $1.50 

_ Mr. Spock Computer Image Poster $1.50 

_ Star Trek Computer Images, Set of 7 $l 50 

_ T-Shirt. Design_Size (S M L XL) $1.50 

_ Art Print. Specify_ $4 00 


Total 


TOTALPARTB 


Quantity Description 

__ The Best of Creative Computing Vol. 1 $8.95 

—__ 101 Basic Computer Games $7.50 

_ Artist and Computer - paper $4.95 

__ Artist and Computer - cloth $10.95 

- What To Do After You Hit Return $6.95 

_ Star Fleet Technical Manual $6.95 

- Games. Tricks, and Puzzles for a 

Hand Calculator $2.95 

- Games With the Pocket Calculator $2.00 

__ Fun and Games With the Computer $5.95 

_ Problem Solving With the Computer $5.95 

_ Problems For Computer Solution $8.95 

_ A Guided Tour of Computer 

Programming in BASIC $4.40 

_ BASIC Programming - 2nd Ed. $8.50 

_ BASIC (self-teaching guide) $3.95 

_ My Computer Likes Me $2.29 


Quantity Description Price 

_ A Simplified Guide to _ 

Fortran Programming $8.75 

_ Computer Science: A First _ 

Course, 2nd Ed. $16.95 

_ Introduction to Microcomputers _ 

and Microprocessors $10.50 

_ Microprocessors: Technology, _ 

Architecture and Applications $12.00 

_ Computer Lib/Dream Machines $7.00 _ 

_ Computer Power and Human Reason $9.95^ __ 

_ Freedom’s Edge $5.95 -- 

_ Electric Media $4.95 - 

_ The Calculating Book $2.95 - 

_ 150 Problems in Crypt- Arithmetic $1.95 - 

_ Advanced Applications for _ 

Pocket Calculators $5.95 


Shipping and handling (1 book 754, 2 or more $1.00) 


C. BOOKS ORDER 

Price 


TOTAL PART C 


D. TOTAL ORDER 


(Please Print) 

Name _ 

Address_ 


City-State_Zip 


Total - Parts A,B,C _ 

Outside USA, add $1.00 _ 

NJ Residents add 5% sales tax _ 

Billing charge (see below) $1.00 - 

GRAND TOTAL _ 

□ Check or M.O. enclosed 

□ Please bill me (add $1.00 billing charge) 

□ BankAmericard \ Card No. _ 

□ Master Charge f Expiration Date _ 


Return form to: Creative Computing, P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 07960, USA 

























































































By now you've read about the National Computer Conference 
(June 7-10, New York) in Computerworld, Datamation. Com¬ 
puter Notes, and all the rest. But while our reporting is totally 
untimely, it brims over with poignant human drama and brings 
you reality as it really was. Keen! —DHA 


How We Spent Our Summer Vacation 


Following is the story of how four students came to leave 
the security of the midwest and journeyed to the Big Apple 
for the National Computer Conference. June 7-10. It is a 
true story. Any resemblance to fictitious characters is 
accidental . 

-Prelude- 

One fine day in January, John was talking on the phone 
with David Ahl about the magazine and things in general 
and stuff. In the course of the conversation Dave said, 
"You're coming to NCC of course?" Caught totally off¬ 
guard, John replied, "Uh, NCC?" 

"You know. The National Computer Conference in New 
York, in June? Creative will have a booth there." 

"Uh, yeh. Uh, I hadn't really thought about it; it does 
sound interesting. I'll look into it and let you know." 

"Okay, If you decide to come you can stay with me and you 
can even work in the booth. I'd like to meet and talk with 
you." 

The conversation then degenerated into other things but 
the crucial idea had been planted. The subject of NCC was 
to lie dormant for several weeks until John committed 



Big Apple 1899. 


himself by paying the sixty dollar advance registration fee. 
At that point he became chicken about going all the way to 
New York by his lonesome, so he took advantage of his 
position as resident weirdo in the UMR Software Lab to 
recruit some other people who enjoyed a similar spirit of 
adventure and lack of common sense. A suitable notice was 
promptly posted on the bulletin board above the cor¬ 
respondence with Gregory Yob (author of Wumpus and 
known to refer to the Software Lab as a "zoo") and below 
the designs for the Simple Operating System. 

Luring people with the promise of an Educational and 
Enlightening Experience, the chance to meet world-famous 
DAVID AHL, and above all the opportunity to goto New York 
cheap and miss the first week of summer school, John 
managed to catch the interest of four undergrads. Time 
passed. Various means of getting New York were discussed 
and discarded (the Comp-Sci Department was less than 
enthusiastic about financing a week long bash for some of 
its flakyer students). Finally it was decided that the group 
would travel in Susan's ten year old Chevy. This also pretty 
well established Susan as one of the group. During this time 
Dave was asked to extend his original offer of a place to stay 
to first one, then two, then three additional people. How 
could he refuse? 

The spring semester came to a close with nothing very 
definite decided beyond the fact that soma number of 
persons would be leaving for NCC on the fourth of June. 
John and Dave had been exchanging letters completely out 
of phase with each other, so Dave probably never really 
knew what to expect. After a short respite in Tulsa, John 
returned to Rolla late in May, finding under his door a 
cryptic note on a scrap of brown paper which could only be 
interpreted as meaning that Sam could not get away from 
his co-op job long enough to make the trip. 

Dave managed to be everywhere but at the other end of 
the phone for a week, then was finally reached on May 28. 
One of the out-of-phase letters had included the informa¬ 
tion that a Tektronix 4051 Graphics System was being 
loaned to Creative for use in the booth, but alas, had no 
creative-type demonstration programs. It was arranged that 
the group from Rolla would show up early to write some 
creative-type demos. 

In order to get to Morristown on Friday, June 4, it was 
decided to leave at five ayem on Thursday, driving the 1200 
or so miles in two days. (Not normally any great trick for four 
students, but only two of these four had driver's licenses.) 
After two days of trying, John finally reached Dennis, who 
lives in a one-horse town in northwestern Missouri which 
evidently still has a wind-up phone system, and told him the 
departure date. 

Like the reasonable, sensible people they are, the group 
went out for pizza the night before leaving and all got to bed 
by one ayem except Susan who didn't go to bed at all. 


22 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 










-The Trip- 

Susan drove around and collected everyone beginning at 
fourthirty ayem. We threw our gear in the trunk, buckled our 
seatbelts and set off in the direction of St. Louis. Sunrise 
reassured us that we were in fact heading east, so Dennis 
and Richard fell asleep while John saw to it that Susan 
stayed awake and kept the car on the road. 

Several hours later the group stopped at a grocery store 
and purchased orange juice and donutsfor breakfast, which 
were consumed at a rest stop several miles further on. 
Somewhere after breakfast the car began acting funny but 
it was put down to Dennis not being familiar yet with the 
car. However, upon restarting the car after gasing up in 
Terra Haute it sounded like a buzz-bomb, so Susan drove 
into the first Midas Muffler repair shop she could find. 

Fortunately only a gasket was required and the interstate 
was soon again speeding by at fifty-five. It was decided to 
shoot for Cambridge, Ohio that day, so reservations were 
wisely made ahead and Cambridge reached around eight 
pee em. Dinner was obtained in styrofoam containers at the 
local McD****d's. The sensible thing todo would have been 
to go to sleep immediately, but Richard turned out to be a 
Mary Hartman freak, so John, Dennis and Richard sat up 
until midnight warching teevee and finishing the orange 
juice. 

i Rising at five the next morning the group soon forged into 
scenic, smog covered Pennsylvania. Tired of the vista 
offered by 1-70, it sounded like a good idea to drive off into 
|the rustic Pennsylvania countryside in search of breakfast. 

Forty-five minutes later we heaved a sigh of relief when 
the good old interstate was found again before the car ran 
out of gas. Breakfast was obtained in styrofoam containers 
at you-know-where. The next seventy miles were downhill 
on the famous Pennsylvania Turnpike. We agreed un¬ 
animously that tunnels are neat and that Missouri really 
should get a few. 

The day went on and so did the highway and the trucks 
and the smog. Bethlehem was picked as a quaint place to 
get lost in while searching for a place to eat lunch, but this 
was becoming old-hat and a fast-food emporium was 
located soon after regaining the good old interstate. 
Continuing a steady pace for the remainder of the 
afternoon, Morristown was reached exactly at the begin¬ 
ning of the rush-hour. 

Now eastern traffic is a little heavier than that of rural 
Missouri, so Dennis concentrated mainly on not getting hit 
by the other insane motorists. Of course it was soon 
discovered that Morristown was on the other side of the 
interstate, but that was easy to fix and after driving all the 
way through Morristown and back looking for a shopping 
center with a phone booth the car came to rest in a school 
parking lot. Susan had been sitting in the back seat gritting 



her teeth and pulling her hair at ail the things which had 
almost happened to her car. She now took over from Dennis 
and Dennis gritted his teeth and made that assortment of 
noises that only Dennis can make in the back seat. 

We were looking for a shopping center with a phone 
because we wanted to buy some postcards and call David 
for directions to his house which he said, “You’ll never 
find if I don’t tell you how to get there.” Since the streets 
of Morristown appeared to be in the pattern of a mobius 
pretzel, we were quite prepared to take his advice. So we 
promptly got lost again and ended up on a road obviously 
headed out into farmland. Turning around was the clever 
thing to do, so Susan took the first right and then a few 
more turns trying to get back to the road we had been on, 
and succeeding only in getting lost in the suburb we had 
blundered into, when John suddenly said, “HOLD IT!” 

Screech. "Huh, what?" 

'That mailbox had 'Ahl' on it." 

"Oh, come-on. No way. Putt-putt in reverse. 

"A .. H .. L. The right housenumber, too. What street are 
we on? This can't possibly have happened. The odds don't 
exist!" But it had happened. We drive 1200 miles and found 
David Ahl's secluded house by accident. Just programmer's 
luck. 

-NCC and the Big Apple- 

We stayed with Dave and Sandy Ahl for two days, 
occupying ourselves with programming the Tektronix 4051, 
sleeping and such. Working with the 4051 was a little 
aggravating because we didn't have a hard copy unit. In 
spite of that drawback we managed to get some decent 
graphic demos and games going. The group was accorded 
great honor by being let into Dave's inner sanctum, where 
each issue of Creative Computing is born. The fabulous 
"Artist and Computer" issue was just off the press and we 
also got to see much of the material being pasted up for the 
Sep/Oct issue. 

Sunday morning the Tektronix was loaded into the cars 
along with many (but not enough as it turned out) 
catalogues, magazines, books, posters and general stuff. 
Susan, Richard and Dennis then followed Dave and John 
into New York City. By some strange fluke of luck both cars 
arrived in front of the Coliseum without mishap. It hardly 
need be mentioned that the weather, until then fair and 
sunny, had turned overcast and rainy. This gave rise to a 
first impression of New York City as something which had 
condensed out of the smog. 

The stuff was carried from the cars in the front of the 
building anc^ up the escalators to the second floor. This was 
done during lunch in order to avoid paying union laborers 
double time to carry it in as all exhibitors were supposed to 
do. We often bent such rules during the show or we would 
have been reduced to begging on streetcorners for money to 



Susan Culwell, Dennis Keats, and John Lees Typical mob scene at the Creative Com- Richard Freeman and John Lees peddle 
at the Creative Computing booth at NCC during puting/Byte booth at NCC. Over 10,000 people Creative Computing merchandise in style, 
a rare, uncrowded moment. came by. 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


23 











Al Stahl, Popeye animator dropped by our NCC 
booth and whipped off a quick sketch for us. 


leave the place. From the point of view of a small magazine, 
the costs associated with exhibiting in the Coliseum are 
atrocious! 

The Creative Computing booth was on the second floor 
next to the exit to the escalators to the third floor. Not a 
bad location at all. During the first two days we shared 
the booth with the people from Byte magazine (another 
bunch of weirdies). We also handed out information for 
Computer Mart of New York and we had a Hoboken 
Computer Works IMSAI 8080 running a TV Dazzler as an 
additional attention getter to the Tektronix. All in all, the 
booth looked pretty good. We even had balloons. 

After setting up the booth and taking a cursory look at 
the other exhibits Dave and Richard went off to an 
exhibitor’s party while the other three of us walked to the 
hotel to our eight floor forty-two dollar a night room with 
a scenic view of garbage in the streets and heavy 
particulate matter in the air. It was discovered that the 
sleeping bags and some books had been left in the car 
when checking in earlier, so we set off to get them. 

The car turned out to be at the very bottom of the parking 
garage, just above the pump which kept the whole place 
from flooding. There is very little oxygen at the bottom of a 
four-level parking garage and the trio was almost happy to 


regain the eighth floor. We attracted some rather strange 
looks tramping through the plush hotel lobby, past the bell 
captain and the dining room and all, dragging a load of 
camping gear. At least we didn't have to be worried about 
being mugged for our luggage. 

Back in the room the first thought was, "something to 
drink!" Fortunately there was a soda machine in the hall 
just outside the door. Unfortunately the machine wanted to 
be fed 450 for each can of soda. Hrrmph. Back home it was 
200 per bottle. Oh, well. When in New York ... The ice 
machine on the floor didn't work, neither did the one on the 
seventh floor. The sixth floor had some very wet ice. At least 
it didn't cost any more. 

Luxuriating with the obscenely priced soda pop, the 
question of dinner began rumbling through our stomachs. 
The room service menu offered a cheeseburger for $4.20 
and coffee at 800 a cup. Yipe! Discard the room service 
menu and forget the hotel restaurant. There was a 
McD****d's somewhere in the vicinity, but it was now 
getting dark in the crime capitol and we didn’t want to get 
mugged looking for a Quarter Pounder, so we had some 
more soda for dinner and wished we had the sense to buy 
a three pound jar of peanut butter before we left 
civilization. 

Eventually Dave and Richard showed up. They had fared 
much better in the food and drink department, especially in 
the drink department.Dave went off to his room and the rest 
of us discussed New York and listened to Richard's tales of 
the antics of tipsy exhibitors. Eventually we parceled 
ourselves out over the room and went to sleep. 

The following two nights Susan slept with Debbie Luhrs 
of Byte at their hotel while Bill Mayhew of Boston 
Children's Museum slept with us. Bill was also heard to 
make the comment that we resembled a zoo. This was when 
Dennis and Richard were using a bed as a trampoline and 
throwing pillows at each other and Susan and John were 
writing out loud a letter to Pamelia back in Rolla. To be 
completely fair about the matter, we feel that Bill still has 
the potential to be a real weirdo if he'll just let himself go. 
The fourth night we were all together again in one happy, 
secure group. Susan was glad to get out of Byte’s cheap 
hotel, only twenty dollars a night with no soda machine. 

‘ The four days of manning the booth in the Coliseum were, 
to say the least, tiring and hectic. Each day began with 
breakfast at the styrofoam emporeum and often ended with 
dinner at the same establishment. Lunch was 85C hotdogs 
at the Coliseum. Work in the booth consisted primarily of 
standing in one spot and forcing (politely) people to accept a 




Frederik Pohl reads a quotefrom “Day Million" The latest in computer fashions: a magnetic Wild Bill Mayhew of the Children's Museum in 
about computers in the far future—he expects tape gown. Boston describes their extensive computer 

them to provide everything, even sex. program for children at an NCC session on 

Public Access. 


24 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 







copy of our free catalogue. We passed out some 7000 
catalogues before the show was over and we ran out early 
at that. Dave twice had to drive back to Morristown to get 
more supplies. 

The Creative booth attracted quite a lot of attention. We 
were not your usual booth handing out your usual blase 
sales literature, and most people reacted favorably to that. 
Dave was even interviewed by the Soviet news agency, 
Tass as well as the New York Post and others. A number of 
peoplefrom the Tektronix exhibit came over and played the 
games on our 4051. Evidently their exhibit was too serious 
for that kind of thing. Interest was even shown in us by IBM. 
Gee. Of course a lot of kooks stopped by, many of whom said 
they were subscribers. 

We spent some time walking around looking at the 
exhibits, picking up literature and physically seeing 
machines we had hitherto only read about. Some of the 
more interesting things to see were the National Student 
Computer Fair, the Computer Graphics Art Exhibit, the 
networking demonstration, the Fourth International Com¬ 
puter Art Festival, the Computer Science Film Theater, and 
the booths of such well known companies as MITS, General 
Turtle and Vocal Interface (VOTRAX). In dull moments 
simply looking at the people always proved interesting. 
Estimated attendance was 35,000 plus. 

One of the more interesting conference sessions we 
attended was Richard Speer's session on Computer 
Generated Films. Several really fascinating films were 
shown, including a mind-blowing one which contained a 
graphic depiction of mathematically turning a sphere 
inside-out. Dave hosted a session of Public Access to 
Computer Power and had a paper published in the 
Conference Proceedings. As usual some of the sessions, 
despite interesting titles, proved to be unremittingly dull 
and we even walked out on a couple. 

A highlight of our stay in New York City was the nightthat 
Dave took us on the subway to ride the Staten Island Ferry 
and then to a little restaurant in The Village for a superb 
dinner. On the ferry we actually got a whiff of decent air and 
in looking back at Manhatten Island realized just how 
incredibly filthy the air over New York City really is. The 
graffiti covered subway trains, although ear-shatteringly 
noisy, were rather quaint. Getting off the subway at Bleeker 



Speakers from the NCC Public Access to 
Computers session joined in Beefsteak 
Charlie's to have a few. L to R: Robert Smith, 
Privacy Journal; Ron Anderson, Univ. of MN 
("Computer Cartoons," Creative 1:3); Trinka 
Dunnagan, Univ of IA (Technical Transport 
Problems, Creative 1:6); ’Burchenal Green, 
Editor of Creative. 


Street (memories of Simon & Garfunkle) we walked to 
Bedford and went through an unmarked door into 
Chumley's, a restaurant which Dave assured us was one 
which retained the Bohemian flavor of The Village as it used 
to be. The meal was excellent although Richard, Demmis 
and Susan embarrassed Dave by ordering their London 
Broils well done. John, who grew up in a moderately large 
city, was cultured enough to order his rare. 

Thursday, the last day of the exhibit, dragged on. We ran 
out of catalogues shortly after noon and then just stood 
around talking to people who came by the booth. As six 
o'clock approached, Dave went to get the car while the rest 
of us packed up the booth and carried the stuff down the 
back stairs, talking our way past guards who wanted to see 
passes for all the stuff we were removing. John pointed out 
that it would be silly to write ourselves passes and kept 
walking as he wastalking. Fortunately we didn't have much 
left at that point and soon we were standing on the sidewalk 
with a little pile of leftovers when Dave drove up. 

We were all greatly relieved to get out of the city and would 
not have particularly disturbed if New York had sunk 
beneath the waves as soon as we were through the Lincoln 
Tunnel. We sped for Morristown, stopping to eat along the 
way. Following a few hours discussion of the high points of 
the past five days, such as almost losing all the subscription 
records when the maid cleaning the room threw them away 
while we were checking out, we fell into exhausted 
slumber. 

-The Return- 

The trek back to Missouri passed without incident of great 
note. The group took two nights to return since we were all 
fatigued and even getting a little tired of each other. It is true 
that there were some interesting points - pizza and donuts 
in Sharon, the ozone alert covering Pennsylvania, Ohio and 
Indiana - but they don't amount to much. Suffice it to say 
that our eleven day trip finally came to an end and we all re¬ 
entered the routine of the University. 

THE END 





Press On 

Nothing in the world can take the 
place of 

Persistence 

o Talent will not— 

Nothing is more common than 
unsuccessful men with talent, 
o Genius will not— 

Unrewarded genius is almost a 
proverb. 

o Education alone will not— 

The world is full of educated 
derelicts. 

Persistence and determination alone 
are omnipotent. 

From a McDonald's Ad 








SEP-OCT 1 976 


25 














COMPYOUTER FAIR 

Wes Thomas* 


Hello - Scott. 

"Who's that?" 

It's - me. 

"Me who?" 

I - am - a - Wang - 2200 - computer - 
interfaced - to - a - Votrax - audio - 
synthesizer. 

I - want - to - show - you - how - I - can - 
help - kids - learn. . . 

"I'm scared. Will it hurt?" 

Do - not - be - afraid, - Let's - first - play * 
a - game. 

"Oh, goody, I love games." 

I - am - thinking - of - a - number - from - 
one - to - one - hundred. - Try - to - guess - 
the - number - and -1 - will - tell - you - if - 
your - guess - is - low - or - high. - You - 
have - only - six - guesses - until - you - 
lose. - What - is - your - guess.-please. 

"Ah, one hundred and two." 

You - are - not - thinking. -Your - guess - 
is - very - high. -Try - again... 

Scott is a dummy. But so what? He was 
the star of the show. I had wandered in 
from the exhibits at the New York 
Coliseum—part of the 1976 National 
Computer Conference—attracted by a 
sign that said COMPYOUTER FAIR. And 
here I was in the middle of the top 58 
entries out of 350 submitted by students 
in the U.S., Canada, and U.S. schools in 
Europe. And I was talking to Michael 
Taylor, a 9th grade Lexington, Mass, 
student-ventriloquist-programmer who 
had created a "talking computer." 

"The program.was written in BASIC on 
the Wang 2200 computer interfaced with 
the Votrax speech synthesizer," Mike 
was explaining. "To make the Votrax talk, 

I used hex codes, which the Votrax 
understands as the different phonemes 
(sounds). It puts the phonemes together 
to form words, so the vocabulary is really 
unlimited." 

"One of the best things it could be used 
for is education, because it's a teacher 
that will never give up and its very 
persistent. It's also good for hospitals. 
Let's say, for example, someone is sick on 
the road. The doctor can call the computer 
at a hospital. The computer will give the 
person's history, and what medicine 
should not be given to him, and what 
should be.. 

I thanked Mike and slipped out of the 
crowd pressing around me and headed 
toward a bank of teletype terminals. 
Seated behind one was Donald Abrams of 
New York City. He looked like he was 

*Wes Thomas is editor of Communications 
Tomorrow, an occasional publication of the 
World Future Society; an interviewer for 
WBAI-FM in New York; a contributor to a 
variety of other interesting publications; and 
also toils regularly for Reeves Teletape Corp. 



Michael Taylor, a 9th grader from Lexington, 
MA poses with his ventriloquist dummy nextto 
his project, a voice synthesis unit connected to 
a Wang 2200. 


about 8 years old, but turned out to be 13. 

I asked him what he was doing. "This is 
the Questionnaire Independent Dating 
System," he came back with, sounding 
vaguely like the Votrax. I guess he had 
been hearing it all day. "It is a dating 
system that does not rely on any one 
single questionnaire, but can be suited to 
fit any questionnaire that could be 
written. It gives you two matches: a 
general match, which gives each person 
his or her best match; and an audience 
match, which matches up every male 
with one female, and vice versa so there 
are no conflicts." He paused briefly to 
allow me to catch up to his thinking. "It 
also prepares a response summary, 
which helps you to improve the values of 
each question by telling you what percent¬ 
age of the responders to each question 
matched. Obviously, the lower the 
percentage of matching, the better the 
question and therefore it should have the 
higher priority, since it is in that question 
that individual differences tend to show 
up best." 

I shook my head in agreement. Ob¬ 
viously. Just what the world needs—a 13 
year old combination Ann Landers— 
computer programmer! Rather than 
admit I didn't have the foggiest idea of 
what he was saying, I quickly changed the 
subject. What else had he been doing 
with computers? "I've been working in six 



A CBS-TV crew videotaped Mike Taylor for a 
spot on the 6 pm news. 


languages. I intend to modify the system 
at the school that I go to to make it a bit 
more like a higher-level computer." What 
system? "Our IBM 1130. I intend to 
modify the Disk Monitor System." Sorry I 
asked. 

Or the Grand Prize winner, Walter 
Freitag, Jr., of Dresher, Pennsylvania, 
age 15, who developed a computer 
perdiction model for the spread of fire. 
Walter is a self-taught programmer (no 
computer classes are offered in his 
school). His father, a chemist, told him his 
project was impossible, but Walter did it 
anyway, using the Univac 1108 computer 
where his father works. The model, 
written in BASIC, uses a series of three- 
dimensional matrices to represent the 
spread of fire in a structure which 
includes the temperature at which the 
material ignites, time to "burn out," etc. 

Walter believes the model can be 
developed to be useful for fighting fires 
and planning new buildings. Walter, who 
was a previous winner of 5 other science 
fairs, won an Altair 8800. He thought he 
might use it to further develop his model, 
or possibly lend to his school, or both. 



William Blum, a hs senior from Huntington, NY 
demonstrates his digitally controlled elec¬ 
tronic music synthesizer to Daniel McCracken, 
noted author and a Computer Fair judge. 

I turned to Andrew Shooman, age 11, 
absorbed in modifying his own computer 
or something. A giant drawing over the 
terminal read "Computer Astronomy 
Almanac." What was that? "It consists of 
two programs—a planet program and a 
moon program." He sounded like Votrax, 
too. What was this, casting for "The 
Bionic Boy?" "The planet program gives 
the position of the planets for any day in 


26 


. CREATIVE COMPUTING 











Wes Thomas interviewing Student Computer 
Fair participants. 


1976 and 1977. And the moon program 
gives the phases of the moon foranydate 
in the 20th century." The TTY was 
clunking out a series of numbers. "This 
tells the position of the planets. For 
instance, this month, Mars is in the 
Constellation Leo. If you look in the sky 
tonight, you will see Mars in the Con¬ 
stellation Leo. That makes it easier for 
astronomers to find." Astronomers that 
would like some help can contact Andrew 
at Glen Cove South School in Long Island. 

Around the corner, Matthew Korn of 
Forest Hills, New York was explaining his 
stock analysis system to two 
businessmen avidly taking notes. 
Matthew told me his system throws new 
light on the stock market and can be 
seriously used. He would charge "5% of 
your earnings." Matthew, age 17, is 
looking for a summer job "at full ex¬ 
ecutive salary, but I'm willing to go down 
a bit. I'm starting in Yale this September. 
That should be good for an extra $20,- 
000." Prospective employers can contact 
his secretary for an interview at Bronx 
High School. He'll try to fit you in. 

In the next exhibit, Abraham Lederman 
was playing his advanced monopoly 
game with a computer terminal, and 
elsewhere Glenn Sage of Portland, 
Oregon was toying with a computer game 
that prepares the player for an imminent 



Leslie Heller, a 6th grader from Poughkeepsie, 
NY choreographed and performed a ballet 
based on APL symbols. 


stock market crash by buying and selling 
stock for maximum profit before the 
crash. These three could be dangerous if 
they ever got together. 

Wisely deciding not to make that 
suggestion, I joined a crowd gathering 
around a piano, where Stephen Basili, 
Grade 5 was playing "Computer Boogie," 
using different musical passages to 
represent different computer com¬ 
ponents ("... the card reader sounds like 
this..Maybe Stephen could set IBM 
documentation to music—maybe that 
would help... 

Later, I listened to performances by 
several other programmer-musicians, 
including Glenn Poole of Springfield, 
Virginia, who used "probabilistic 
mathematical techniques" on a computer 



Entry in the poster category at the National 
Student Computer Fair. 


to compose music; David Shmoys of 
Huntington Station, New York, who uses 
a computer to automatically transform 
Telemann flute compositions; Bruce 
Horn, Palo Alto, California, who uses the 
SMALLTALK language to plot musical 
notes on a CRT screen, and the New York 
Chapter/ACM award winner, William 
Blum, who has developed what may be 
the world's most advanced analog-digital 
music synthesizer (more on that in a 
future issue of Creative Computing). 

Many, if not most of the fair projects 
were dreamed up and executed by the 
students completely on their own, like 
Alan Sung of Douglaston, New York, who 
wrote a program to organize Regents' 
exams, grade the results, and produce 
statistical analyses, replacing a team of 
10 teachers. 

Space doesn't permit a description of 
the many other exciting exhibits, such as 
computer pinball, football, and poker 
games, or BATTLESHIP, or "A Natural 
Language Problem Solver Employing 
Modified Deterministic Finite State 
Automata" (I carefully bypassed that 
one—I had learned my lesson with 
Abrams), or Robert Bedichek's 
homemade minicomputer breadboarded 
over an entire length of the Coliseum 
(well, almost), or Lane Molpus (great 
name, that), who designed his own 
computer from scratch, or SWARMS (a 
computer model of attacking bees from 
South America, no kidding), or the many 
imaginative stories and drawings—and 
even a ballet—but Creative Computing 



Three computer fair entries from the Northern 
NJ Student ACM Chapter. 


(where else?) will be carrying more on the 
fair in future issues. 

What was this fair all about? I asked 
organizer Serna Marks: "We wanted to 
get away from the computer science fair. 
This wasn't going to be 'let's just build 
another compiler.' Computers are for 
everyone, and computer power is soon 
going to be in the hands of all the people. 
One of the interesting questions is how is 
this computer power going to be used, 
how can we start thinking about it? These 
kids regard computers as a free and easy- 
to-use resource. They are totally in¬ 
tolerant of hard-to-use systems. They are 
interested in how computers can be fun 
and how to do things better. We wanted 
to influence the schools in a very subtle 
way—to say there's more to computers 
than FORTRAN programming. We 
wanted to get the English and Social 
Studies teachers involved—to encourage 
students to think about computers, draw 
pictures about them, write essays, incor¬ 
porate them into their own way of 
thinking. I think we succeeded." Well, so 
did the thousands of enthusiastic people 
attending the fair. It was the largest, the 
best organized, and most attractive 
student computer fair so far. The kids 
even wrote their own proceedings, 
published in a giant binder. As Serna 
modestly told me: "This fair set a new 
standard." 

As I walked out, slightly numbed by it 
all, Scott was still trying to outguess the 
talking computer (".. .too low—try 
again..."), Bedichek was adjusting the 
data rate of his I/O board and trying to tap 
into< the experiment next to him, and 
Korn, Lederman, and Sage were in a 
huddle, probably plotting the takeover of 
IBM. "It's going to be an interesting 
generation," I thought. 



SEP-OCT 1 976 


27 



































Writers and Computers: An Interview 
With Carole Spearin McCauley 


by Cathy Silverstein 
24 Kolbert Drive 
Scarsdale, New York 10583 


When the words “computer-assisted literature” are men¬ 
tioned, one doesn’t know what to expect. Carole Spearin 
McCauley is a youthful, soft-spoken Connecticut woman who is 
one of a handful of authors using the computer to generate 
prose. 

Ms. McCauley was educated as a literature major and subse¬ 
quently entered professional journalism and creative writing. 
But after attending various computer and information process¬ 
ing conferences, she sought a way to combine both her job and 
her interest in technology. She wondered what ways data 
processing could aid writers involved in literary projects. Six 
years ago she found what she calls the “gestating” field of 
computer-assisted literature and through it another way of 
creating fiction. 

Ms. McCauley then began to research various systems but 
more importantly she sought a “user-friendly” language to use 
in her programs. She chose APL because of its ability to process 
both character and numeric strings as well as having consider¬ 
able editing and formatting capabilities. She learned to pro¬ 
gram the hard way — by reading inadequate manuals and by ex¬ 
perimenting with programs at the terminal. Unfortunately her 
facility is not equipped to take full advantage of the interactive 
nature of APL. 

“Sex and Violence ” her first project, combined both 
language content and graphics similar to poetry. It involved the 
generation of phrase substitutes from word lists. The final 
results were published in an anthology, Assembling , edited’ by 
Richard Kostelanetz. 

Though some may view the preceding as trivial, it must be 
considered a major advance in the field of computer-assisted 
prose. As Ms. McCauley states: 

“It (computer prose) must form some kind of whole or 
people will feel they’ve been cheated. It either has to be 
short enough to stand on its own or it must be 
incorporated into some larger work to help the reader 
make sense of it. 

I don’t like to write things that have no purpose. 
Frankly, things are so damn hard to do, that they 
deserve a context. 

I’ve found my fiction won’t be accepted just because it 
exists. It must offer someone something in the way of 
ideas or needs. It doesn’t do the cause of computer 
literature any good to come up with nonsense. I don’t 
want computer literature to get a bad reputation from 
what I’ve done.” 

After “Sex and Violence” she progresses to the stanza form. 
This project in 1970-71 involved template lines, skeleton format 
and three categories of mood words (positive, negative and 
ambivalent). These stanzas were later incorporated into the 
novel, Happenthing In Travelon , she’d begun to write. The 
novel published in 1975 by Daughters, Inc., a feminist publisher, 
led Ms. McCauley to what would become the two areas she ex¬ 
plores using the computer. Initially she sought another manner 
of presenting meaningful characters through computer- 
assisted portraits beyond the usual narrative method (“he said 

. she said _ then they _”). Secondly she used the 

computer as a design tool, to add greater dimension to her fic¬ 
tion. 


In 1971-72 Ms. McCauley was contacted by Prof. Max Vense 
and Elisabeth Walther from the University of Stuttgart, 
Germany. They asked her to write a book, composed of 
computer-assisted works. Six Portraits (1973) was included in a 
series they published. While working on this book, Ms. 
McCauley began to realize the first of her goals — the creation 
of new methods of characterization. This project produced a 
set of sentences dealing with the protagonists of her developing 
novel in addition to anagrams of word relations assigned to 
them. In her words: 

“The computer makes the characters more three- 
dimensional in a way that is faster and easier than being 
totally alone in your head. By making connections the 
writer hadn’t seen, it offered an opportunity to meditate 
on the nature of each character’s growth and con¬ 
sistency.” 

Lest you believe this “miner” has struck a vein of gold, Ms. 
McCauley has encountered great difficulties when seeking a 
market for any fiction either totally or partially computer¬ 
generated. The hostility shown by many New York publishers 
has further impressed her with the need for imaginative and 
well-planned programs. Ms. McCauley thereby plays devil’s 
advocate by constantly evaluating the role of the computer in 
literature. Can computer fiction stand on its own? Will it make 
its own statement?* 

This author sees the field of computer-assisted literature as a 
method of extension, much as the car was originally an exten¬ 
sion for the horse. She looks forward to a time when a terminal 
will share equal rights with a television set in the home. In fact, 
Ms. McCauley believes common use of the computer to be 
necessary before computer literature will be more widely recog¬ 
nized. 

The major drawback Ms. McCauley has encountered is the 
inability of the computer to adequately express emotion. She 
anticipates a “change in the traditional goals of programming 
toward more humanistic and imaginative applications.” Finally 
she feels that greater experimentation with and use of the 
computer will engender integration of computer science and 
literature to “help people to remain generalists.” 

Ms. McCauley sees many areas for expansion and improve¬ 
ment of both form and content in the expanding arsenal of tools 
employed in computer-assisted fiction. The nature of random 
composition, literary criticism and generation of the most 
stringent literary forms such as the sonnet are only a few 
possible areas. As an author and as a programmer, she yearns 
for her work to be taken seriously so that the “presence of 
computer literature in or as a work of fiction will be viewed on 
equal terms” with both traditional and experimental modes. 

Ms. Carole Spearin McCauley and her work show that con¬ 
trary to often voiced fears, we are not doomed to ‘narrow’ 
specialization. In this case, a computer, the once-exclusive 
brainchild of science, engineering and business, has become an 
integral part of one of our most humanistic fields, literature. 


*One New York publisher, Fraeger, was impressed enough with the manu¬ 
script and computer parts of Happenthing to give her a contract to do a non-fic¬ 
tion book. This resulted in Computer and Creativity, published by Praeger in late 
1974. 


28 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 







Once Upon A Computer... 


by Carole S. McCauley 


The computer as novelist and poet? Vladimir Nabokov 
Model 360? 

As with computer art and graphics, the very idea can 
disturb or amuse people, including some computer com¬ 
pany employees, because it upsets traditional myths about 
how art or literature are created. 

As a writer. I'm a veteran of eight projects in computer 
prose, totalling hundreds of pages, which I have used in a 
variety of ways. Besides their literary value, my projects 
(especially the APL programming!) have tended to teach 
me what won't work — and why — rather than the joy of 
celebrating what does work. 

Like any other tool or machine, the literary computer 
may be used oversimply (to produce something that can be 
done by hand or typewriter) or uncreatively (to produce 
nonsense or to reproduce something already done). Let me 
briefly illustrate each of these problems and how they 
interconnect, since what is simple-minded is probably 
uncreative, too. 

Sometimes these faults can be caused by innocent 
ignorance because the writer usually is not his/her own 
programmer, especially at the beginning. S/he must depend 
on a programming partner willing to work with poetic or 
otherwise unusual material never seen before. This partner, 
or the writer after a programming course, must get the data 
to run through the machine and print out at the terminal 
without "bugs" (errors). 

Another principle is that the machine, while able to 
make many rapid calculations, is totally dependent on 
correct data and commands down to every comma and 
apostrophe. Helpless without them, it has no judgment or 
ability to proceed independently. The machine can spot an 
error but not correct it. 

1. The literary computer may be used too simply. An 
example: just feeding it a list of words (Jesus hotdog freak 
fruit, etc.) without syntactical instructions or doing any¬ 
thing further to develop an idea. This means accepting 
however the machine may churn them out (fruit freak 
hotdog Jesus) for the (possible) humorous results. 

The machine also produces handsome design poems, can 
take a few words or letters and print them in a pretty 
pattern on nice white paper. So could the poet Guillaume 
Apollinaire sixty years ago — and so can most people with a 
typewriter. 

2. The machine may be used uncreatively, in my 
opinion, to produce lines like 

O Death ... The river 

The night Winks 

Comes and shines .. . And I am ravished. 

0 night. 

Weep like a red flower... 

O darling, 

Dance like a transparent moon ... 

Sink, O darling! . .. 

O poet, 

The body of your blessing reaches me ... 


Where did these words come from? Their author, who 
selected such lines from printouts of a computer project at 
Yale, says, "Typically, 25 words of a vocabulary were taken 
from an anthology of classical English poetry beginning 
with the 16th century ... I took another 25 words from an 
avant-garde anthology published in the late 1960's." Com¬ 
pleting this project was, I know, no small or simple task. It 
entailed, for instance, 19 different vocabularies of 50 words 
each, which the machine combined and interchanged by 
random number generation into "two stanzas a second or a 
theoretical 7,200 stanzas an hour." 

If a writer enters something, s/he gets something out 
that sounds and looks like poetry. As any lit major knows, 
however, lines like these have already been done by many 
romantic poets. The process resembles using a Moog 
synthesizer to re-produce Beethoven's romantic sym¬ 
phonies. 

When an author can avoid the above difficulties, there 
remain technical and graphics problems. One is getting copy 
printed dark enough on paper white or good enough to 
photo offset successfully. Another is getting the machine to 
repeat itself — to print out two originals that are exactly 
alike. If the machine process used is random number 
generation, the essence of randomness is that, like lightning, 
it is not apt to strike twice in all the same places. 

While I enjoy and find my computer experiments 
fruitful, fascinating, and fun (sometimes lovely copy 
chugging out and I needn't do a thing — after a certain 
point), I don't predict a great future community among 
writers, computers, and computer programmers. Computer 
time is expensive, few writers are yet their own program¬ 
mers, and programmers may not possess the kind of minds 
that want to produce creative literature. Literary experi¬ 
mentation can be an uncertain process, requiring the species 
of poetic, unprosaic mind that is happy with unfixed 
parameters, serendipitous juxtapositions, no-definite-end- 
goal-from-the-beginning. Programmers may find such free¬ 
dom pointless or frightening. 

My eight computerized projects have so far involved a 
couple experiments with learning computer and program¬ 
ming terminology and applying it to characters in a novel I 
wrote. Next I did two design poems for which the machine 
was given two lists of words and two basic sentences, then 
told to combine and recombine these words, creating nearly 
endless new sentences, finally commanded to print these on 
the page in certain designs. The two lists of words: one on 
sex and one on violence. I achieved the designs by 
examining the total printout, numbering the "best" sen¬ 
tences (funniest, most sensible, most tragic, etc.), and 
commanding the machine to print these in certain line 
lengths. 

Line 1: print sentence No. 14 complete, followed by 
beginning of sentence No. 178. Total width allowable: 50 
characters including spaces ... 

Line 5 (shorter line): print characters 1 to 20 .. . The 
whole is similar to a crochet pattern of varying row lengths 
and stitches. 

The final result begins' SEX 

_- and - - - are the end of___ 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


29 




SEX. 


MARRIAGE and PREGNANCY are the end of LOVE. 
LOVE and MARRIAGE are the end of MAN. MAN and 
PREGNANCY are the end of WOMAN. WOMAN and 
HORMONES are the end of UNDER THE SHEETS. 
UNDER THE SHEETS and 
DIAPERS are the end of W 
OMEN'S LIBERATION. WO 

and so on. 

Print on the total page is shaped to form the letters S 

E 

X. 


number 1, 5 times in the first run (first paragraph), double 
(2) that amount or ten times in the second, and so on until 
the whole paragraph appears and can be read. Pat. No. 1 has 
a fixed shape (crosses of horizontal and vertical lines). 
However, it is again random number generation that 
determines exactly where, which letters, in each paragraph 
that pat. No. 1 will choose or use to repeat the design. 

Here are samples of a first, third, and fifth (final) run of 
the paragraph on the character Joette Winton. Taube .means 
"dove"; Schneeba/lschlacht, "snowball fight." 

HNEEB 

L . ADD 

I FIT 

UNC T? 1 

S ARE BED QUI 

ED. 


Print on the violence page forms a gun with bullets 
spraying. 

My next project ("Things I Will Never Do Again") 
resulted from giving the computer over a dozen lists of 
words (all from my novel, all classified by part of speech 
and by "value" or tone within the book's emotional 
context) plus a basic seven-line stanza form: 

+ = POSITIVE NOUN, ADJ, VERB, ADV 
- = NEGATIVE NOUN, ADJ, VERB, ADV 
° = AMBIVALENT NOUN, ADJ, VERB, ADV 

RHYME LINE 

A +ADJ +NOUN ADV +VERB PREPOSITION THE 
+NOUN -ADJ AS -NOUN 


£ 

J RS. 
UNC ON T 
P S ARE VET. 
UN TED. 


L 

RYT 
Tf I 
BED QUI K 


N HNEEB 
CAR . ADD 
VERY 
R THE F 

S 


E 

u ST CE L E IN HNEEB SCH HT. 

Zj AMEB L . EMATS. SO AYI CAR ADD HEER 0 

MIL I RS. VE DO RYT RSELV PT THE VERY ORK. D 

ERVE UNC ON THIS FLIC T? I AN UNVE HER FOR THE F 

DIAPERS ARE VET. GO T BED QUI K C BE DOCT S IS 

UNTED. 


T N E 

D. A: 

E&QHOJIN. A. IL Us ST GER L IM G E EIN HNEEB LLSCHLA HT. 

TJULHS.LAZ&1 GAMEBIRD L EMATS. SONGBIRD AYING CAR . ADD CHEER TO 
MILY DINNERS. VE DO EVERYTHING OURSELVES EXC PT THE VERY AVY VORK. DO YOU 
ERVE UNCH ON THIS FLIC T? I VAS AN UNWED MOTHER FOR THE FI. M SON'S 
DIAPERS ARE VET. GO T BED QUICKLY--I SHALL C L THE DOCT . THIS S IS 
HAUNTED. 


A °ADJ °NOUN ADV °VERB PREP THE °NOUN 
HOW? 

+ADV -ADV °ADV 


JOETTE VINTON HOUSEVIFE, MOTHER 37 

CdZd: DIE TAUBE 

PJ&NQlltlCG. £AK£FJILLI-- ES 1ST ger<5ll IM gewolbe. FINE SCHNEEBALLSCHLACHT. 
TAARSLATj: : GAMEBIRD PLACEMATS. SONGBIRD PLAYING CARDS. ADD CHEER- TO 

FAMILY DINNERS. VE DO EVERYTHING OURSELVES EXCEPT THE VERY HEAVY VORK. DO YOI 
SERVE LUNCH ON THIS FLIGHT? I VAS AN UNWED MOTHER FOR THE FBI. MY SON'S 
DIAPERS ARE WET. GO TO BED QUICKLYSHALL CALL THE DOCTOR. THIS HOUSE IS 
HAUNTED. 


RHYME LINE 

MOUNTAIN KNOWS SNOWS 

A FABULOUS FI RESHADOW QUICKLY CIRCUITS 
ABOUT THE GODDESS 
DANK AS RAINSTAINS 

A FLIRTATIOUS JOETTE SOMETIMES DIAPERS 
UPON THE PLANE 
HOW? 

FLATTEREDLY REDCOLDLY KAY-NINELY 
SKYFLY 

"Things I Will Never Do Again" is actually the last page 
of the novel, titled Happenthing in Travel On. Happenthing 
is a happening; Travel On is an old house. The book is a 
winter frontier adventure of a group of women — one with 
a baby — who take an airplane and live together on a 
mountainside. More stanzas appear elsewhere in the book, 
using key words appropriate to the action in each section. 
Each stanza can also be considered as an interplay of 
variables (underlined parts of speech, above) with constants 
(definite and indefinite articles, repetition of certain rhyme 
lines). 

Two more projects, again from the novel, appeared as a 
separate book, Six Portraits , in Germany. These combine 
design poetry with German-English language learning. The 
two total about fifty pages of printout. For the first, I 
assigned to each of the novel's people a symbol plus a 
paragraph set of basic sentences. Each paragraph is different 
and appropriate to the personality, speech, and attitudes of 
the character. Each paragraph appears four times in partial 
form, the fifth time in complete form. A command (for 
example, IVY X 5 2 1) begins each computer run on a 
character. This means that program X will print pattern 


My other German project: I entered into the computer 
twelve lists of words. That means two equivalent lists (1 in 
German = 1 in English) for each of the book's six 
characters. For example, bang (German) = "anxious" 
(English). The machine was then programmed to print these 
words randomly in anagram-like pairs. 

Here is a sampling of words that describe the character 
Giselle, a frightened student. 


A 

R 

D 

0 

R 

GLUT 


. D 
E 
S 
T 
I 
T 
U 
T 
E 

BAR 


JAMMER 

I 

S 


E 

R 

Y 


C G 

FANG HARM 

T I 

C E 

H F 


FATAL 

W 

K 

W 

A 

ELF R 

L D 

E 

V 

E 

N 

S 

T 

FADE 

L 

E C 
PLUMP 
U 
M 
S 
Y 


P 

0 

0 

ARM • 

FEE 
A 
' I 
R 
Y 


BOG S 

E C 

N A 

T B 


GRIND 


BANG 

N 

X 

I 

0 

U 

S 


PEST 
T L 

H A 

DIE G 

U 
E 


30 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 

















The trick is that to an English-speaking person, the page 
appears entirely English. However, one-half of each word 
pair (all the horizontally printed words) is actually German. 

Both the German projects are intended as a new kind of 
verbal portrait, a different method of doing fictional 
characters beyond the usual "he said, she said, then 
they ..." arranged in consecutive paragraphs and pages of 
narration and description. Both are also satires on foreign 
language learning in general. Both were done in APL, a 
general purpose programming language, and the programs 
appear with them. 

My latest project, done for a book Computers and 
Creativity, is a brief, randomized fairy tale. Its title is "Five 
Ways to Tell a Story: the Sad Case of Catrina M.". Here are 
two versions of Catrina's first paragraph. 

1 . 

Once upon a time like twenty years ago Catrina M. was 
born at an early age in Winnemucca, Nevada. She was a 
smiley baby, full of milk and cereal. At three she attended 
nursery school where she played with her teachers constant¬ 
ly. Having somehow survived her young years, she entered 
first grade, full of trust and hope. Her tearful subjects were 
arithmetic and underwater basketweaving, (This was a very 
weird school.) 

Being a good girl, she married her mother, adored her 
father, and stammered at her sister, who was twenty years 
younger. (This was a very major family.) However, she did 
manage to mature and get it all together by the age of 
sixteen. 

Next she tried female consciousness raising although her 
father didn't believe in careers for women. This took her 
thirteen and a half years. When she had finished, she still 
wasn't qualified to undertake higher education until she 
learned never to say no. 

She never hated anybody because her mother had 
doubts about success. Comforted by her friends, dog, and 
boss, she lives a mostly lively life in the Bronx. Sometimes 
Catrina M. still has doubts about fair treatment but 
generally she has managed to trust other people. 

2 . 

Once upon a time like a-lady-never-tells-how-old Catrina 
M. was born at an early age in Caribou, Maine. She was a 
bratty baby, full of sound and fury. At three she attended 
nursery school where she ignored her teachers constantly. 
Having somehow survived her young years, she entered first 
grade, full of tantrums and eating problems. Her liberal 
subjects were arithmetic and underwater basketweaving, 
(This was a very major school.) 

Being a good girl, she fought her mother, cried at her 
father, and married her sister, who was thirteen and a half 
years younger. (This was a very progressive * family.) 
However, she did manage to flip out and reach outward by 
the age of ten. 

Next she tried female consciousness raising although her 
father didn't believe in nervous breakdowns for women. 
This took her twenty years. When she had finished, she still 
wasn't qualified to undertake diplomas until she learned to 
brew coffee. 

She never blushed at anybody because her mother had 
doubts about fulfillment. Comforted by her friends, dog, 
and boss, she lives a mostly celibate life in Milford, 
Pennsylvania. Sometimes Catrina M. still has doubts about 
courage but generally she has managed to flip out. 


Future possibilities for myself and others in this area: 
using the machine to explore metaphor and simile with 
larger vocabularies and other stanza forms, to investigate 
other rhetorical problems. Why do some of the machine's 


random choices work so much better than others? Why are 
some so striking, others nonsense? Can the machine create 
paradoxes or epigrams? How to compare the process of 
human, poetic creativity with these electronic processes 
(random number generation, letter matching, table lookup 
of equivalents, sorting, merging, etc.)? 

Such computer work excites me, at the very least, as a 
welcome change from the usual think-type-retype-retype 
process by which literature has been created. The challenge 
is to devise concepts encompassing, original, complex, and 
subtle enough to give the machine, the author, and the 
programmer an optimal workout. 


Poets, Birds, Snow, Kites, 
and The Computer 

by Arthur Layzer 

Last December, at the engineering institution where I 
teach, a novel program of computer art works entitled "The 
Computer Is a Medium" was presented. In these works, the 
computer in some essential way "filtered" the expression 
of the English language: the voice speaking the words of a 
poem was an artificial, musical voice synthesized by the 
computer (Speech Songs by Charles Dodge); an animated 
film was constructed entirely out of the textured words of a 
poem (the author's "Morning Elevator"); the computer was 
used to spew out possibilities that filled in the blanks of a 
pre-set sentence structure (Carole McCauley's Do-It-Your¬ 
self poems on Sex and Violence); animated graphics and 
poem fragments interplayed with the aid of a general pro¬ 
gramming language (Stan Vanderbeek's and Ken 
Knowlton's "Poem Fields"). 

At the center of "A Computer Is a Medium" was a non¬ 
computer event, a reading by Siv Cedering Fox. Her poetry 
evoked personal resonances from inorganic snow, ice and 
water. A remarkable illusion of spatial extension occurred, 
enhanced by a computer-music background of James 
Randall. 

At first sight it seems absurd to have invited a live poet to 
a computer arts program, about as absurd as entering a bird 
in an exhibition of fancy kites. The situation looks more 
reasonable if you compare not how well the computer-kite 
or the bird-poet can fly but how they each take to the wind. 
The bird-poet flies effortlessly. The computer-kite with its 
over-simplified angular construction is vulnerable and 
reacts transparently to the wind blowing. And it is 
dependent on a human hand for guidance by way of a long 
string that is just visible enough so that you can't forget it. 

What is the wind for the artist who works with the 
computer? That is the hardest thing and sometimes you 
have to blow yourself to keep the composition afloat. But 
there is also the wind of random numbers and the wind of a 
programmed process which you have set up but which you 
can't control from moment to moment. 

It seems that only by getting outside of ourselves can we 
express anything that is profound. The poet learns this 
instinctively and is then called crazy. 

The inside of the computer is chilling in its starkness, its 
ordered qualities and its fragmentation. When the creative 
wind blows on the computer's personality, shapes it or 
melts it to an organic form that we recognize as humanly 
associated—takes the computer's personality outside of 
itself—we feel the significance of the human situation in a 
striking way: We have managed to get outside of ourselves 
also—perhaps going the other way. 

Reprinted with permission of the author from the Arts in Society bulletin 
(Summer/Fall 1974) of The Univ. of Wisconsin - Extension. 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


31 









Producing Computer Poetry 

by Margaret Chisman 
50 Tuddenham Road 
Ipswich, Suffolk, IP4 2SP 
England 


Ideas mill around vaguely for some time. I collect words 
that appeal to me visually, orally or semantically without 
any special theme in mind. This phase corresponds to the 
'data soup' of scientific problem solving and can last for 
months. Sometimes the fermenting process erupts under 
its own volition, or under the jerk of an outside impetus — 
such as the Computer Arts Society writing to me about a 
forthcoming exhibition at the Science Museum, London, of 
computer generated art. 

I produce, as a first step, a verse, which is generally the 
kind of apparently meaningful nonsense that Chomsky 
refers to about green ideas sleeping furiously. I use for the 
parts of speech I desire whatever words in that category 
first come into my head — this is to get the lilt or rhythm of 
the verse. For example: — 

Should fancy free us from technique 
Or belief lead us to provocative faith 
Should loving add to our pattern of crime 
When all living is dead. 

or another 

My heart looks at life 
Thrusting with growth but true 
Always giving never having 
Agony though softened corrupts. 

I then break it down as follows: — (taking the second verse) 


provide a jolt. Each person has their own repertoire of 
words, and writing this kind of poetry it is easy to get into a 
semantic rut. So I flip the dictionary open randomly and 
follow up any interesting words in the Synonym Finder. 

In the early days of my work I used a Telcomp programme 
with a random number generator to select from each group. 
I eventually decided this had less than an artistic result in 
that words could, and were used over and over again, thus 
reducing the impact. Quite by chance, I made an improve¬ 
ment. One day I could not get on a terminal and so, 
impatiently, I wrote the words on pieces of card and put 
each group of words in a separate bag, taking one word out 
of each bag in order. It struck me then that it would be better 
poetry if, after taking a word out I did not put it back again (as 
the computer does in its random number generator). Thus I 
had x number of verses corresponding to x number of words 
I put in each group and there was no repetition. Other sets 
of verses can, of course, be produced, by putting the whole 
lot of the words back again in the bags and starting all over 
again. 

I believe several other computer poets have discovered 
they can simulate the action of a computer thus. The con¬ 
tribution of the computer (or a 'computer approach') is to 
suspend judgment on conventional patterns of associa¬ 
tion. 

I deliberately never use punctuation in computer poetry 
because its absence allows greater varieties of combina¬ 
tion of meaningful groups of words. 


(D 


( 2 ) 


My heart looks at 

(Fixed) noun singular subject verb present tense singular 


( 3 ) 

life 

noun singular object 


( 4 ) ( 5 ) 

Thrusting with growth 

verb present participle noun singular 


( 6 ) ( 7 ) 

but true 

linking word adjective 


( 8 ) ( 9 ) ( 10 ) ( 11 ) 

Always giving never having 

linking word verb present participle linking word verb present participle 


( 12 ) ( 13 ) ( 14 ) ( 15 ) 

Agony though softened corrupts 

noun singular linking word verb past participle verb present singular 


Then in each group I list say 8-10 words (limiting myself 
to about 10 because of the time factor — finding 10 words 
that please me, in each group can take up to a week.) I use 
Rodale's 'Synonym Finder' and also his 'Word Finder' plus 
Chambers Twentieth Century Etymological Dictionary. I do 
not make any attempt at rhyming as, in my experience, this 
would not only make my work immeasurably more difficult 
but amateurish rhyming can be bathotic. However there is 
place for it in humorous verse. 

The criterion for the selection of words in each group is 
generally overall compatibility of meaning, mood and 
category but with an occasional word quite out of keeping to 


Groups of words used for verses that follow 

Slot 1 Head, eye, hand, reason, heart, child,flesh, mood. 

Slot 2 Thrives on, quickens with, delights in, shades 
into, leads to, craves for, yearns for, prepares for. 

Slot 3 Pain, grief, rejection, enchantment, caresses, life, 
joy, prayer. 

Slot 4 Unseen by, bleak with, eager for, strong with, free 
from, fresh to, ardent with, blind to. t 

Slot 5 Guilt, doubt, despair, sin, pride, lust, dread, lies. 

Slot 6 Maybe, yet, even, but, now, never, perhaps, 
always. 

Slot 7 Vague, true, calm, dull, soft, cruel, fierce, vain. 

Slot 8 Not, rarely, beyond, above, sometimes, seldom, 
just, only. 

Slot 9 Relaxing, hoarding, quarrelling, blaming, probing, 
seeking, hiding, drifting. 

Slot 10 Repeat slot 8 

Slot 11 Seducing, aching, dreaming, doubting, pitying, 
loving, daring, stifling. 

Slot 12 Comfort, sorrow, friendship, freedom, passion, 
praise, remorse, truth. 

Slot 13 Started with 'though' and changed to 'if' as it was 
more meaningful.. 

Slot 14 Controlled, withheld, followed, enforced, enjoyed, 
* derided, applauded, suppressed. 

Slot 15 Corrupts, consoles, refreshes, enslaves, endures, 
destroys, divides, consumes. 


32 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 









MYSELF MANIFEST 


Margaret Chisman, 1974 



1 st Selection 

My head thrives on pain 
Unseen by guilt 
Not relaxing not seducing 
Comfort if controlled 
Corrupts 

My eye quickens with grief 
Bleak with doubt yet true 
Rarely hoarding rarely aching 
Sorrow if withheld 
Consoles 

My hand delights in rejection 
Eager for despair ever calm 
Beyond quarrelling beyond dreaming 
Friendship if followed 
Refreshes 

My reason shades into enchantment 
Strong with sin but dull 
Above blaming above doubting 
Freedom if enforced 
Enslaves 

My heart leads to caresses 

Free from pride now soft 

Sometimes probing sometimes pitying 

Passion if enjoyed 

Endures 

My child craves for life 
Fresh to lust never cruel 
Seldom seeking seldom loving 
Praise if derided 
Destroys 

My flesh yearns for joy 
Ardent with dread perhaps fierce 
Just hiding just daring 
Remorse if applauded 
Divides 

My mood prepares for prayer 
Blind to lies always vain 
Only drifting only stifling 
Truth if suppressed 
Consumes 


2nd Selection 


My flesh leads to rejection 
Free from despair never soft 
Beyond hiding beyond dreaming 
Remorse if applauded 
Divides 

My child thrives on grief 
Ardent with pride yet true 
Just seeking just dreaming 
Truth if controlled 
Corrupts 

My heart quickens with enchantment 
Eager for dread now fierce 
Rarely blaming rarely seducing 
Comfort if withheld 
Enslaves 

My hand shades into life 
Unseen by sin always vague 
Sometimes releasing sometimes stifling 
Freedom if enjoyed 
Refreshes 

My reason delights in caresses 
Bleak with lies maybe cruel 
Not quarrelling not doubting 
Friendship if derided 
Consoles 

My eye prepares for pain 
Fresh to lust but vain 
Above probing above loving 
Praise if followed 
Endures 

My head craves for joy 
Blind to guilt perhaps calm 
Seldom hoarding seldom aching 
Passion if enforced 
Destroys 

My mood yearns for prayer 
Strong with doubt ever dull 
Only drifting only pitying 
Sorrow if suppressed 
Consumes 







SEP-OCT 1 976 



33 




















































































































































HAIKU GENERATOR 

Paul J. Emmerich 
Dana College, Blair, Nebraska 


This program is a rather trivial example of the symbiotic 
relationship of man and computer forecast by John Kemeny 
as the direction of future development. In it the operator 
interacts with the computer to produce seventeen syllable, 
three line statements which, with luck and perseverance, 
may be termed haiku. You'll no doubt remember that a 
haiku is a Japanese form of poetry that consists of three 
lines containing five, seven, and five syllables. The main 
idea is to present a striking image. 

Program Characteristics 

The program is composed of four lists of words (nouns, 
verbs, adjectives, and adverbs), one punctuation mark (the 
ellipsis), and a method of selecting words at random from 
these lists to be combined in a particular pattern. The 
pattern of word categories is determined by the operator at 
the time he runs the program. 

Two inputs are required from the operator — a limit for 
choosing a number of random numbers (referred to by the 
program as a "seed”) and the pattern of words to be used in 
composing the haiku. The "seed" is used to run through a 
series of random numbers produced by the computer's 
random number generator. The random numbers deter¬ 
mine which particular words are chosen from the word lists 
in the pattern specified by the operator. The word categories 
are entered as numbers — 1 for noun, 2 for verb, 3 for adjec¬ 
tive, 4 for adverb, and 5 for an ellipsis. Up to eighteen 
categories can be entered for this pattern. 

Syllables are counted by identifying a, e, i, o, u, and 
terminal y. Terminal e does not count as a syllable. Thus 
boot would count as two syllables and the would not count 
at all. 

The lists need not be single words since the strings are 
combined on the basis of length regardless of internal 
blanks. By following the spelling conventions described 
above, you can modify the lists to include anything that you 
desire. If you do not follow the rules (e.g. you use words with 
adjacent vowel letters that are not pronounced separately), 
the worst that will happen isthatthe machine will not count 
syllables correctly. 

Lexical items must be 26 or fewer characters, thus 
permitting phrases and clauses as well as individual words 
in the lexicon of the program. Since a haiku contains only 
seventeen syllables, the number of word categories never 
needs to be longer than that. In fact, one or two categories 
can be used alone since the program repeats the input 
pattern as many times as necessary to come up with at least 
seventeen syllables. Each haiku is also limited to a maxi¬ 
mum of 255 characters. 

Currently, there are eighteen of each — noun, verb, 
adjective* and adverb. From these 72 entries and the one 
punctuation mark permitted, there are thousands of 


different combinations possible. Changing the vocabulary, 
of course, increases the number of different haiku that can 
be written by the program. If your form of BASIC allows 
character strings in DATA statements, you can work out a 
nicer lexicon by using the RND function and reading from 
DATA statements. 

Operation 

Type the word RUN, followed as usual by RETURN. The 
program will respond SEED? Enter a number. When the 
program has produced that many random numbers, it will 
ask for your list of word categories. Enter numbers from 1 to 
5, pressing RETURN after each. The numbers mean: 

1 choose a noun 

2 choose a verb 

3 choose an adjective 

4 choose an adverb 

5 put in an ellipsis. 

At the end of your pattern, enter 0 (zero) to tell the machine 
to start composing the haiku. 

If the first part of a haiku is satisfying, modifications can 
be made by choosing the same seed, repeating the word 
category pattern as far as it is satisfactory, and then chang¬ 
ing the remaining entries in the pattern. 

The program and a sample run appear below. 



Author Emmerich and Nova computer produce Haiku 
together. 


34 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 





I 


LIST 

0010 

0020 

0030 

0040 

0050 

0060 

0070 

0080 

0090 

0100 

0110 

0120 

0130 

0140 

0150 

0160 

0170 

0180 

0190 

0200 

0210 

0220 

0230 

0240 

0250 

0260 

0270 

0280 

0290 

0300 

0310 

0320 

0330 

0340 

0350 

0360 

0370 

0380 

0390 

0400 

0410 

0420 

0430 

0440 

0450 

0460 

0470 

0480 

0490 

0500 

0510 

0520 

0530 

0540 

0550 

0560 

0570 

0580 

0590 

0600 

0610 

0620 

0630 

0640 

0650 

0660 

0670 

0680 

0690 

0700 

0710 

0720 

0730 

0740 

0750 

0760 

0770 


REM *****HAIKU GENERATOR 

REM *****D.C. PROGRAM LIBRARY FILE NO. 850-1 
REM *****WRITTEN BY PAUL J. EMMERICH* FALL* 1973 
REM *****DANA COLLEGE* BLAIR* NEBRASKA 68008 
DIM C C183 * PS C255 3 * AS C261 
PRINT "SEED"* 

INPUT N 
PRINT 

REM , *****WIND RANDOM NUM8ER GENERATOR 

FOR 1=1 TO N 
LET X=RNDC1) 

NEXT I 
LET C1=1 

REM *****paTTERN INPUT ROUTINE 

PRINT "WORD CATEGORIES" -- 

input cccn a Tty 1 

IF C£C 1 3 =0 GOTO 0210 |\V 

0,30 LISTING 

GOTO 0160 
LET 1=0 
LET C!=C1-1 
PRINT 

REM *****C0NSTRUCT STRING 

FOR J=1 TO Cl 

LET A=INT(RND(J>*100)+1 
IF A=0 GOTO 0260 
IF A>18 GOTO 0260 
ON CCJ3 GOSUB 0670 
LET P$ = P$ * AS 
LET 1=1+1 
IF 1=17 GOTO 0360 
NEXT J 
LET J=1 
GOTO 0250 
LET J=1 

REM *****BLANK REMAINDER OF LINE FOR PRINTING 

LET P$CLENCP$)+1*2503=" " 

LET S2=5 
LET L=L+1 

REM *****C0UNT SYLLABLES 

FOR I=J TO LEN(PS) 

0500 
0490 
0500 
0500 
0520 


1510 REM *****ADJECTIVE ROUTINE 

1520 IF A>9 GOTO 1540 


1530 

1540 

ON A GOTO 1560* 
LET A=A-9 

1600* 

1640* 

1680* 

1720* 

1760* 

1800* 

1840* 

1880 

1550 

1560 

ON A GOTO 1580* 
LET A$ = "R!JDE " 

1620* 

1660* 

1700* 

1740* 

1780* 

1820* 

I860* 

1900 


1570 RETURN 

1580 LET A$="DUMB " 

1590 RETURN 

1600 LET A$="THAT HAS NOTHING TO OFFER 
1610 RETURN 


Adjectives go here 


1920 

1930 

1940 

1950 

1960 

1970 

1980 

1990 

2000 

2010 

2020 


1100* 1510* 1920* 2330 


REM ***★★ADVERB ROUTINE 

IF A>9 GOTO 1950 

ON A GOTO 1970* 2010* 2050* 2090* 2130* 2170* 2210* 2250* 2290 
LET A=A-9 

3N A GOTO 1990* 2030* 2070* 2110* 2150* 2190* 2230* 2270* 2310 
LET A$= M CIJNMINGLY " 

RETURN 

LET AS="SWIFTLY " 

RETURN 

LET A$="HARD " 

RETURN 

Av»d i<? adverbs here 


2330 

2340 

2350 

2360 


REM 

LET A$= 

RETURN 

END 


*****ellipsi s 


GOTO 

GOTO 

GOTO 

GOTO 

GOTO 


IF P$ CI * I3="A" 

IF P$ C I * I 3 ="E" 

IF PSCI*I3="I" 

IF P$ C I * I 3 ="0’ 

IF P$ CI * I 3 ="Y" 

IF P$ CI * I 3 <>"U" G0T0 0540 
IF PSCI + 1* 1 + 13 = " " GOTO 0540 
LET S1=S1+1 
GGT0 0530 

IF PSCI +1 * I +13=" " GOTO 0500 
IF SI=S2 GOTO 0570 
NEXT I 

REM *****END OF WORD? 

LET 1=1+1 

IF PS CI*I3<>" " GOTO 0560 
REM *****PRINT LINE 

PRINT PS CJ*I 3 
LET J»I 
LET SI=0 

IF L=2 G0T3 0390 
LET S2=7 

IF L=1 GOTO 0400 

PRINT 

STOP 

REM *****N0UN ROUTINE 

IF A>9 GOTO 0700 

ON A GOTO 0720* 0760* 0800* 0840* 0880* 0920* 0960* 
LET A=A-9 
ON A GOTO 0740 
LET A$="FL0WER ’ 

RETURN 

LET A$="VIND3W 
RETURN 

LET A$="8IRD " 

RETURN 


The only pOffOSC O-f *W\€ 
s«ed ts Ic4 you *Urt 
fbe random number 
ftt «H*t 

or a diP-fer#nf pUcc each 

run. Can y»u think. of aw-r 
oHur way h» do *Hu« ? y 


1000* 1040 

0780* 0820* 0860* 0900* 0940* 0980* 1020* 1060 


Inserf |(p addrh'onal nouns o( yo 
choice here in Statements Soo - lofco 
£ach noun needs a LET A* * ** word*" 
and a HEtoRM. 


\ 

SAMPLE 

RUN 


RUN 

» SEED? 35 
W0RD CATEGORIES 

? 3? 3? 1? 5? 3? 3? 1? 5? 2? 0 
LOVELY DUMB GIRL 
. . . FALTERING CRISP EYE . . 
DUMB SUDDEN DELIGHT 


SHIMMER 


ST0« AT 0660 
RUN 

SEED? 34 
WORD CATEGORIES 
? 4? 4? 2? 5? 4? 4? 2? 1? 0 
MADLY SWIFTLY WHISPER 
. . . KINDLY SOFTLY SHIMMER RAY 
BRUTALLY SWIFTLY 


STOP AT 0660 
RUN 

SEED? 59 

WORD CATEGORIES 

? 1? 3? 3? 3? 5? 1? 3? 3? 3? 0 
GIRL MUSCULAR LOVELY 
MUSCULAR . . . SKY BIG SHORT MUSCULAR 
TRUMPET SHORT SUDDEN 


STOP AT 0660 
RUN 

SEED? 500 
WORD CATEGORIES 
? 1? 2? 2? 2? 1? 2? 4? 0 
SUN PULSE DILATE WHISPER 
WINDOW THINK SMOKILY GIRL 
HOPE PULSE WHISPER DELIGHT 


1 100 

1 1 10 
1120 

REM *****VERB ROUTINE 

IF A>9 GOTO 1130 

ON A GOTO 1150* 1190* 1230* 

1270* 

1310* 

1350* 

1390* 

1430* 

1470 

1 130 

1 140 

LET A=A-9 

ON A GOTO 1170* 1210* 

1250* 

1290* 

1330* 

1370* 

1410* 

1450* 

1490 

1 150 

1 160 

1 170 
1180 
1190 
1200 

LET AS="RUN " 

RETURN 

LET A$="SHINE " 

RETURN 

LET AS="SING " 

RETURN 









Insert 1^ I*ore verb* here 


Page *5 


STOP AT 0660 
RUN 

SEED? 423 
WORD CATEGORIES 
? 2? 2? 1? 0 
SHINE BULGE BIRD ARREST 
SHIMMER WIND RUN HOPE EYE BULGE 
SCRUB SUN SING SHINE WINDOW 


STOP AT 0660 






Roses are red, 

Computers are "blue 


by David H. Ahl 


There must be some things a computer can't 
do, but — aside from pole vaulting — it's getting 
harder and harder to name them. And now the 
electronic monster is also a poet! Maybe a good 
one, even. What is poetry, anyway, or some kinds 
of poetry at least, but words strung together on a 
page to a musical, surprising, emotional, or other¬ 
wise interesting effect? And this a computer can do 
like crazy. All it requires is a programmer to 
program its grammar and vocabulary and a man of 
taste to winnow its rhapsodic outpourings. And 
though the computer may not yet be the greatest 
of poets, it is certainly among the freshest and 
most original. Would you believe an anthology of 
the future featuring the works of IBM 360? Click. 



EXERCISE 1 

Try to discover poetry in discarded magazines. 
Cut out interesting words and phrases and arrange 
them for meaning or to convey an impression or 
feeling. Then paste them on construction paper for 
an interesting display. A typical result: 

Now! Run to Mexico 
Now you're free 
after 30 days of driving 
on a single tank of gas 
Free! 

EXERCISE 2 

Run the computer program POET for a page 
or two of output. This is heavily random except 
that phrases from four groups generally follow in 
order. The phrases, for the most part, are similar to 
those that might be used by Edgar Allen Poe. Some 
of the stanzas will seem to make sense. Overall the 
impression is one of evil darkness and impending 
doom. 


EXERCISE 3 

Divide the class into small groups. Have each 
group select one of the groups of words below and 
use them in the computer program BARD. This 
program is the same as POET except.it allows you 


to input your phrases 
already in the computer, 
by retyping it.) 

AIRLINE PHRASES 

Giants of the skies 
Soaring high 
On the world's rim 
Breathtaking 
The wings of man 

Distant lands 
New vistas 
Luring me 
Up, up and away 
Fasten your seatbelt 


instead of using those 
(You can also use POET 


Shades of blue 
Silver bird 

Time shortens and melts 
Entrancing me 
Billowing clouds 

Endless horizon 
Deep red sunset 
See the world 
Like a bird 
Fly high .... 


36 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 





























90 

100 

101 

102 

103 

104 

105 
110 
111 
112 

113 

114 

115 
120 
121 
122 

123 

124 

125 

130 

131 

132 

133 

134 
210 
212 

214 

215 
220 
230 
240 
250 
270 
999 


RANDOMIZfc 
IF I<>1 THEM 
I <>2 
I*>3 

I <>4 
I <>5 
GOTO 210 
IF I<>1 THEM 
I <>2 
I <>3 
I < > 4 

lob 
GOTO 218 
IF I<>1 THEN 
1<>2 
I <>3 

I 04 

1 <>5 
GOTO 210 
IF I<>1 THFM 
I <>2 
I <>3 
I o 4 
I <>5 
U*0 


IF 

IF 

IF 

IF 


IF 

IF 

IF 

IF 


IF 

IF 

IF 

IF 


Thfc'M 

Tm£M 

THEN 

THEN 


THEN 

THEN 

THEN 

THEN 


THEN 

THEN 

THEN 

THEN 


THEN 

then 

then 

Then 

THEN 


101 

102 

103 

104 
210 

111 

112 

113 

114 
210 

121 

122 

123 

124 
210 


IF 
IF 
IF 
IF 
IF 

IF RND>.6b THEN 

PRINTVJS0 

I■INT(ft*RND+1) 

JeJ+l\KsK+l 

IF U>0 THEN 240 


131 

132 

133 

134 
210 

212 


ELSE 

ELSE 

ELSE 

ELSE 

ELSE 

ELSE 

ELSE 

ELSt 

ELSE 

ELSE 

ELSE 

ELSt 

ELSE 

ELSE 

ELSE 


PRINT "MIDNIGHT DREARY" 
PRINT "FIREY EYES"} 
PRINT "dIRD OR FIEND"} 
PRINT "THING OF EVIL"; 
PRINT "PHOPHET"} 

PRINT "BEGUILING ME"} 
PRINT "THRILLED ME"} 
PRINT "STILL SITTING... 
PRINT "BURNED. "\GOTO 
PRINT "NEVER FLITTING"} 


PROGRAM POET 


212 


IF U*0 THEN 210 ELSE 
PRINT "AMO MY SOUL"! 
PRINT "DARKNESS THERE"} 
PRINT "SHALL BE LIFTED" 
print "Quoth the raven" 


PRINT 


ELSE PRINT 
ELSE PRINT 
else print 

ELSE PRINT 

else print 
ELSE if RND>,19 then 212 ELSE 
214 ELSE PRINT " "l\U«U+l\GOT 


"NOTHING MORE"} 
"YET AGAIN"} 

"Slowly creeping" 

"...NEVERMORE"} 
"EVERMORE."} 


The programs are. both 

Written *n fiASIC-PLuS. 
Vou’ll have *H> converf 
Etiem -to ftASic "for 
\foor cow\po her. k 

backslash (\) 

"\G0T0 21? S€p ^es 

W\u IWpl-e st atevnents 
c>v\ one Iine. Generally 

"SIGN OF PARTING"! 

\jo<j tan substitute 
a baeksie^h -for 
* ELSE" i£ 4our BASIC 
doesn't perwnt IF-THEN 
ELSE. If i|®ur QASic 
doesn't allow multiple 
Statements om one line, 
4be\A goo have a little 
PRIM ","}\U*2 wort work. 
0 21b 


-to do. 


ON J GOTO 100,110,120,130,250 
J«0\PRINT\IF K>20 ThEn 270 ELSE 
PRINT\U*0\Ks0\GOTO 110 
END 


Fuse if intcj/2)<>j/2 

GOTO 215 


!4R else print » 


" ! 


10 REMNANTS OF ANOTHER PROGRAM, POET, APPEAR IN THIS 
20 REMARKABLE PROGRAM ,BARD, WRITTEN BY DAVE AHL. 


PROGRAM BARD 


30 PRINT "BARD WRITES RANDOM POETRY WITH YOUR WORDS OR PHRASES. 11 
40 PRINT "YOU SUPPLY 20 WORDS OR PHRASES UP TO 16 LETTERS LONG. " 

50 RANDOMIZE \ DIM A$<20) \ FOR 1=1 TO 4 
60 PRINT \ PRINT "FIVE PHRASES FOR LINE"I"PLEASE" 

70 FOR J=1 TO 5 \ S=( I -1)*5+J \ INPUT A$(S) 

80 IF LEN< A$(S))>16 THEN INPUT "TOO LONG. AGAIN. A$(S) \ GOTO 80 

90 NEXT J \ NEXT I ^—TKis lirwits a phftJ* -h> Ife characters . Zo *ni'gM- be. be+Fer. 

100 PRINT \ INPUT "WHERE DO YOU WANT OUTPUT (KB: , LF': , OR LP1:)";B$ 

110 OPEN B« FOR OUTPUT AS FILE 1 \ J=0 \ GOTO 330 

200 PRINT #l,A*(I)i \ GOTO 300 ^ - TH'vs ellows printing on tbe line 

210 PRINT #l,A$(I+5); \ GOTO 300 pnnher o- \|our -terminal- It H** 0 **’1 
220 PRINT #1, A$( I-t-10); \ GOTO 300 have. a. terminal , Ci*np »4 ose standard 

230 PRINT #r,fl$(I + 15)i \ GOTO 300 p *' KT *ta+emewts. 

300 IF U=0 THEN 310 ELSE IF RND>. 19 THEN 310 ELSE PRINT #1, ", "j \ U=2 
310 IF RND>. 65 THEN 320 ELSE PRINT #1," \ U=U+1 \ GOTO 330 

320 PRINT #1 \ U=0 

330 I = I NT (5#RND+1) \ J=J+1 \ K=K+1 \ L=L+1 

340 IF U>0 THEN 350 ELSE IF INT(J/2)OJ/2 THEN 350 ELSE PRINT #1," 

350 ON J GOTO 200,210,220,230,360 

360 J=0 \ PRINT #1 \ IF K>20 THEN 370 ELSE GOTO 330 
370 PRINT #1 \ U=0 \ K=0 \ IF LC200 THEN 200 
999 CLOSE 1 \ END 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


37 









NATURE PHRASES 


Carpet of ferns 
Morning dew 
Tang of dawn 
, Swaying pines 
The song of nature 

Entrances me 
Soothing me 
Rustling leaves 
Gently caresses 
Radiates calm 

Mighty oaks 
Grace and beauty 
Silently singing 
Nature speaking 
Captures my senses 

Untouched, unspoiled 
Shades of green 
Tranquility 
.... Evermore 
So peaceful.... 

INDUSTRY PHRASES 

Harnessing energy 
Industrial might 
Steel, oil, timber, nylon 
Furnaces roaring 
Around the clock 

Mining, casting, refining 
Computer tapes whir 
Hammers pounding 
Throbbing pulsating 
Rubber, zinc, glass 

(You write these 
5 phrases) 

Machines and people 
Improving life 
Conquering poverty 
Energy .... 

Technology.... 



3-YEAR-OLD PHRASES 

Romper stompers 
"Look at me!" 

Dancing and singing 
Sparkling eyes 
Bouncing curls 

Devilishly spirited 
Unbounded energy 
Supremely happy 
Inquiring, curious 
Looking, discovering 

"Tie my shoes" 

"I can do it myself" 
Skipping and jumping 
Radiating joy 
Oh, so lively! 

Always active 
And gumballs 
... . Delightful 
. ... So lovable 
Adventure! 


ASTRONOMY 

TASTE AND TOUCH BRIGHTEN SPRING SNOW 
WEEDS BROUGHT THE REFUSAL 
UNBEARABLY 

WEEDS LOITERED WESTERN STARS 
THE EARTH CATWALKS THE EAST RIM 
LESS VIVID 

TO REST THE EARTH 

TO HAVE FOG-BREATH 

THE LITTLE WESTERN STARS FOUGHT 


A LIONESS 

UPON THE SHORE 
ALL NIGHT 
GROTESQUELY 

FRIGID FINAL A LIONESS SAYS 

AFTER A RIVER 
TOO SOON 
TO FEEL 

SHINING MEAT-EATING EMOTION GRINNED 


EXERCISE 4 

Choose a subject and make up 20 phrases 
about the subject. Use these phrases in the program 
BARD. 

EXERCISE 5 

Read the computer generated poetry below. 
Do you like it more or less than poetry written by 
humans? Why? 

Since the computer was programmed by a 
human maybe we should regard the computer as an 
extension of the hand or the intellect of the writer. 
In this case the poetry is still really a product of 
the writer. Do you agree? Why or why not? 


THE STEEL 

VEINS ROUSE THE STEEL 
JOY PROTRACTS THE DIRECTION 

MISTS UTTER THE STATUES 
RED FIRE WEAVES LOVERS 

NAKED PLEASURES BEGIN 
THE STEEL 


OPTIONAL PROJECT 1 

Write a program to compose any kind of 
poetry you wish. 


38 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 









AMATEUR COMPUTING 


by Sol Libes, President 
Amateur Computer Group of New Jersey 


What is Amateur Computing? 

Amateur computing is private computer use, in one's 
own home, of one's own computer—a computer that is 
most usually home-built and microprocessor based. 

Amateur computing is the prelude to the future of a 
computer in every home. It is following in the tradition of 
Amateur Radio. 

At the turn of the century when Marconi developed the 
antenna and demonstrated that radio signals could be 
transmitted significant distances, amateur radio experi¬ 
menters eagerly began experimenting. They developed 
transmitters and receivers, communicated with one 
another, improved equipment, expanded the range and 
frequency spectrum. It was not until the 1920's that 
commercial broadcasting began and the home radio 
receiver became common-place. 

It was the radio amateurs, experimenting in basements 
and attics, who laid the foundation for the home radio 
receiver. In 1900, if you had tried to tell someone about 
radio receivers, they would not have even understood what 
you were talking about. The situation in home computers, 
today, is much the same. 

Today, amateur computer hobbyists are embarking on the 
road toward the home computer. It began in the 1960's with 
the availability of economical digital IC's (integrated 
circuits). With them, a few determined pioneers built home 
computers to perform special functions. Around 1972, a 
company called INTEL introduced a single 1C which 
contained most of the circuitry for a small control type CPU 
(central processing unit). This 1C, called the 8008 MPU 
(microprocessor unit) made it possible for amateurs to start 
building home computer systems. They interfaced them to 
TTY's (teletypes) and started to use them for general 
purpose applications (like game playing) and applications 
for which the manufacturer had not really designed them. 
But then again, amateur home experimenters are always 
doing things like that. 

With the 8008, amateur computing, as a hobby was born. 
In 1974, INTEL introduced the 8080 MPU—more powerful, 
faster, and easier to use than the 8008. Motorola and 
several other manufacturers introduced MPU's, prices 
dropped and the hobby began to grow. There were several 
hundred homebuilt computer systems. 

In January 1975, MITS Inc. introduced the ALTAIR 
8800 CPU kit (using the 8080) making it even easier to 
build a home computer system. Now there are several 
dozen kits on the market (in a future article we wil I try to rate 
them) and several thousand computer hobbyists. 

The hobby is growing like wildfire—particularly as home 
machines become easier to assemble, more powerful and 
lower in cost. Before long, home computing will go 
commercial too, as radio did, and we will see a computer in 
every home! 

Who Are Computer Amateurs? 

Like radio amateurs, amateur computer hobbyists come 
from all walks of life. There are high school students, 
teachers, computer programmers, researchers, radio 
amateurs, retired senior citizens and others too many to 
mention. But, they all have a common interest. It is their 


incessant curiousity and eagerness to learn anything now. 

It is from these computer amateurs that will come the 
computer revolution of tomorrow. 

What Do Computer Amateurs Do? 

First of all, most computer amateurs build their own 
computer systems, usually from kits. A typical home 
computer system, of today, consists of a CPU (the ALTAIR 
8800 is currently the most popular), with about 12K 
(12,288) words of 1C RAM'(random access memory), IK 
(1,024) words of 1C ROM (read only memory) containing the 
Monitor system control program, a key-board input (usually 
surplus), a TV alphanumeric display (using a black and 
white TV receiver) for output and an audio cassette (hi-fi 
type) for program storage. Typical software includes an 
assembler, program editor, text editor and BASIC inter¬ 
preter. This typical system presently costs about $1200 to 
$1500 to build. 

Computer amateurs use their systems for hardware and 
software development, for playing games (mostly in BASIC), 
word-processing, automatic operation of amateur radio 
stations, monitoring home operating systems, scientific 
calculations and analysis, book-keeping operations—and 
much more. 

There are amateurs with full color graphics displays on 
color TV sets, amateurs with talking computers—and on 
and on—there is no limit to the home computer's applica¬ 
tions. Can the home-built robot be far away? 

How Does One Get Into Amateur Computing? 

If the preceding has whet your appetite and you want to 
look into amateur computing, the first step is to attend a 
meeting of an amateur computer club. There are now 
several dozen in the country. An up-to-date list of computer 
clubs follows this article. 

Learn from the experiences of others. Computer equip¬ 
ment is still expensive. But there is a lot of used equipment 
available—much of which is sold or traded at amateur club 
meetings. 

Also, if you build your own system, the likelihood isthat it* 
will not work and will require debugging. Clubs offer 
assistance to members in getting their hardware up and 
running. 

Also, most clubs have a software librarian, so that soft¬ 
ware can be made available at low cost. Most amateurs 
make their programs available to other amateurs. Most 
clubs also do "group purchasing" to obtain discounts for 
their members. Another important function of clubs, is 
spreading the word on suppliers—which are reliable and 
which are not (unfortunately there are some unreliable 
suppliers in this area). 

Keep in mind, that when you undertake to build your own 
home system, IBM will not be there to provide hardware and 
software assistance (besides who could afford their prices?) 
and a club will serve as your back-up. 

In The Next Issue 

This column will continue in the next issue with a 
discussion of magazines and books for the amateur 
computer hobbyist. 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


39 




COMPUTER CLUB DIRECTORY 


Alabama 

North Alabama Computer Club 
c/oJack Crenshaw 
1409 Blevins Gap Road SE 
Huntsville, AL 35802 

California 

Bay Area Microprocessor Users Group 
4565 Black Avenue 
Pleasanton, CA 94566 

Computer Organization of Los Angeles 

PO Box 43677 

Los Angeles, CA 90043 

Computer Phreaques United 
c/o Mac McCormick 
2090 Cross Street 
Seaside, CA 93955 

Glendale Community College Computer Club 
c/o V.S. Lashleu 
1500 N, Verdugo Road 
Glendale, CA 92108 

Homebrew Computer Club 
PO Box 626 

Mountain View, CA 94040 

HP-65 Users Group 
c/o Richard J. Nelson 
2541 W. Camden Place 
Santa Ana, CA 90024 

Jim McCord 

330 Vereda Legenda 

Goleta, CA 93017 

John T. Craig 

2497 Lompoc-Casmalia Road 

Lompoc, CA 93436 

(People owning Varian Computers) 

Litton Calculator/Computer Club 
Litton Guidance and Control Systems 
MS 78/31 

5500 Canoga Avenue 
Woodland Hills, CA 91364 

LLLRA Hobbyist Group 
c/o Charles D. Hoover 
35 West Essen Street 
Stockton, CA 95204 

LO*OP Center 
8099 La Plaza 
Cotati, CA 94928 

Sacramento Minicomputer Users Group 
Box 741 

Citrus Heights, CA 95610 

San Diego Computing Society 

PO Box 9988 

San Diego, CA 92109 

San Gabriel SCCS 
c/o Dan Erickson 
400 S. Catalina Avenue 
Pasadena, CA 91106 

Santa Barbara Computer Group 
c/o Glenn A. McComb 
210 Barrunca, Apt. 2 
Santa Barbara, CA 93101 

Santa Barbara Nameless 
Computer Club 
c/o Doug Penrod 
1445 La Clima Road 
Santa Barbara, CA 93101 

Southern California Compu f er Society 
PO Box 987 

South Pasadena, CA 91030 


29 Palms California Area Group 
c/o Sgt. Wesley Isgrigg 
74055 Casita Drive 
29 Palms, CA 92277 

UCLA Computer Club 
3514 Boelter Hall 
UCLA 

Los Angeles, CA 90024 

Valley Chapter, SCCS 
c/o R. Stuart Gibbs 
5652 Lemona Avenue 
Van Nuys, CA 91411 

Ventura County Computer Club 
c/o Eric Strohbehn 
4409 Vinyard Avenue 
Oxnard, CA 93030 


Colorado 

Denver Amateur Computer Society 
PO Box 6338 
Denver, CO 80206 


Connecticut 

Connecticut Microists 
c/o George Ahmuty 
6011 Wendy Lane 
Westport, CT 06881 

Connecticut SCCS 
c/o Charles Floto 
267 Willow Street 
New Haven, CT 06511 


District of Columbia 

Washington Amateur Computer Society 
Robert Jones 

4201 Massachusetts Avenue Apt. 168W 
Washington, DC 20016 


Florida 

Miami Area Computer Club 
c/o Terry Williamson 
PO Box 430852, S. 

Miami, FL 33143 

Miami Computer Club 
John Lynn 
13431 SW 79th 
Miami, FL 33183 

Southern Florida 
c/o Roberto Denis 
11080 NW 39th Street 
Coral Springs, FL 33065 

Tallahassee Amateur Computer Society 
c/o Larry Hughes 
Rt. 14, Box 351-116 
Tallahassee, FL 32304 


Georgia 

Atlanta Area Microcomputer Hobbyist Club 
c/o Jim Dunion 
421 Ridgecrest Road 
Atlanta, GA 30307 


Hawaii 

Aloha Computer Club 
c/o Robert Kennedy 
1541 Dominus No. 1404 
Honolulu, HI 96822 


Illinois 

Chicago Area Computer Hobbyist's Exchange 
(CACHE) 

PO Box 36 

Vernon Hills, IL 60061 

Chicago Area Microcomputer Users Group 
c/o Bill Precht 
1102 S. Edison 
Lombard, IL 60148 

ICE-NINE, Inc. 

PO Box 291 

Western Springs, IL 60558 
Indiana 

Beta lota Tau 
c/o Richard R. Petke 
R.H.l.T. Box 420 
Terre Haute'lN 47803 
(Computer Fraternity) 

Hoosier Amateur Computer and Kluge Society 

c/o Ray Borill 

111S. College Avenue 

Bloomington, IN 47401 

Louisville Area Users of Micro¬ 
processors 
115 Edgemont Drive 
New Albany, IN 47150 

Kentucky 

Louisville Area Users of Micro¬ 
processors 

c/o Steve Roberts (Cybertronics) 

PO Box 18065 
Louisville, KY 40218 

Louisiana 

New Orleans Computer Club 
Amil Alline 

1119 Pennsylvania Avenue 
Slidell, LA 70458 

Maryland 

Chesapeake Microcomputer Club 
236 St. David Court, X4 
Cockeysville, MD 21030 

Massachusetts 

Alcove Computer Club 
C/o John P. Vullo 
21 Sunset Ave. 

North Reading, MA01864 

New England Computer Society 
PO Box 198 
Bedford, MA 01730 

Michigan 

Ann Arbor Computing Club 
c/o Roger Gregory 
1485 Newport Road # 

Ann Arbor, Ml 48103 

C.J. Lamesfield 
Box 271 

Davison, Ml 48423 

Computer Hobbyists Around Lansing 
c/o Joyce and Marvin Church 
4307 Mar Moor Drive 
Lansing, Ml 48917 

Detroit Area Club 
c/o Dennis Siemit 
45466 Cluster 
Utica, Ml 48087 


40 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 







Detroit Area Users Group 
c/o Dana Badertscher 
18300 Ash 

East Detroit, Ml 48021 

Mid-Michigan Micro Group 
c/o William T. Serviss 
13121 Tucker Drive 
DeWitt, Ml 48820 

SEMCO 

c/o Dick Weir 

20,000 Great Oak Circle S. 

Mt. Clemens, Ml 


Minnesota 

Bit Users Association 
Resource Access Center 
3010 4th Avenue S. 

Minneapolis, MN 55408 

Southern Minnesota Amateur Computer Club 
2212 NW 17th Avenue 
Rochester, MN 55901 

XXX-11 
Dick Corner 
514 S. 9th Street 
Moorhead, MN 56560 


New Hampshire 

Nashua Area Computer Club 
c/o Dwayne Jeffries 
181 Cypress Lane 
Nashua, NH 03060 

New England Computer Club 
c/o BYTE 
70 Main Street 
Peterborough, NH 03458 


New Jersey 

Amateur Computer Group of New Jersey 

c/o Sol Libes 

UCTI 

1776 Raritan Road 
Scotch Plains, NJ 07076 

New Jersey Club 
c/o Bruce C. Dalland 
37 Brook Drive 
Dover, NJ 07801 


New Mexico 

Albuquerque Area Computer Club 
Gary Tack 
PO Box 866 
Corrales, NM 87048 


New York 

Buffalo Group 
c/o Chuck Fischer 
355 South Creek Drive 
Depew, NY 14043 

Ithaca Computer Club 
c/o Steven Edelman 
204 Dryden Road 
Ithaca, NY 14850 

Long Island Computer Association 
c/o Gerry Harrison 
PO Box 864 
Jamaica, NY 11431 

Long Island Computer Club 
c/o Popular Electronics 
One Park Avenue 
Neyv York, NY 10016 


New York Micro Hobbyist Group 
c/o Robert Schwartz 
375 Riverside Drive, Apt 1 E 
New York, NY 10025 

Pacesetter User's Group 
1457 Broadway, Rm. 305 
New York, NY 10016 

Students Cybernetics Lab 
16 Lin wood Avenue 
Buffalo, New York 14209 

Westchester Amateur Computer Society 
c/o Harold Shair 
41 Colby Avenue 
Rye, NY 10580 


Ohio 

Amateur Computer Society of 
Columbus 
c/o Walter Marvin 
408 Thurber Drive West #6 
Columbus, OH 43215 

Cleveland Digital Group 
c/o John Kabat, Jr. 

1200 Seneca Blvd. #407 
Broadway Heights, OH 44147 

Dayton Computer Club 
c/o Doug Andrew 
8668 Sturbridge Avenue 
Cincinnati, OH 45200 

Midwest Alliance of Computer Clubs 
c/o Gary Coleman 
PO Box 83 

Brecksville, OH 44141 


Oklahoma 

Central Oklahoma Amateur Computing 
Society 
c/o Lee Lilly 
PO Box 2213 
Norman, OK 73069 

Oklahoma City Club 
c/o Bill Cowden 
2412 SW 45th 
Oklahoma City, OK 73119 


Oregon 

Portland Computer Club 
c/o Bill Marsh 
2814 NE 40th Street 
Portland, OR 97212 


Pennsylvania 

Delaware Valley Chapter, SCCS 
c/o Martin Dimmerman 
1228 Barrowdale 
Rydal, PA 19046 

Pittsburgh Area Computer Club 

c/o Fred Kitman 

OPUS-1 

400 Smithfield Road 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 


Texas 

El Paso Computer Group 
c/o Jack 0. Coats, Jr. 

213 Argonaut Apt. 27 
El Paso, TX 79912 

NASA-JSC Computer Hobbyist Club 
c/o Marlowe Cassetti 
1011 Davenport 
Seabrook, TX 77586 


Texas A&M University Microcomputer 
Club 

PO Box M-9 

Aggieland Station, TX 77844 

Texas Computer Club 
c/o L.G. Walker -v 

Rt. 1 Box 272 
Aledo, TX 76008 

The Computer Hobbyist Group of 
North Texas 
c/o Bill Fuller 
2377 Dalworth 157 
Grand Prairie, TX 75050 

Utah 

Salt Lake City Computer Club 
2925 Valley View Avenue 
Holladay, UT 84117 

Virginia 

Andrew Convery 

2315 Freetown Ct., Apt. 1,10 

Reston, VA 22091 

Dyna-Micro Users Group 
c/o Dr. Frank Settle, Jr. 

Digital Directions 
PO Box 1053 
Lexington, VA 24450 

IBM 5100 Users Group 
c/o Richard E. Easton, MD 
5541 Parliment Drive, Suite 104 
Virginia Beach, VA 23462 

Penninsula Computer Hobbyist Club 
c/o Larry Polis 
2 Weber Lane 
Hampton, VA 23663 

Washington-Baltimore Computer Hobbyist 
Club 

c/o Richard Rubinstein 
7711 Elba Road 
Alexandria, VA 22306 

Washington 

Northwest Computer Club 
PO Box 5304 
Seattle, WA 98105 

Wisconsin 

Wisconsin Area Tribe of Computer 
Hobbyists (WATCH) 
c/o Don Stevens 
PO Box 159 

Sheboygan Falls, Wl 22306 

If you have a computer club in your area which 
is not listed here, or if the listing for your club is 
incorrect, please send us an updated listing. 
We will run updates every issue and the 
complete directory twice a year. 



SEP-OCT 1976 


41 







The Madness Known as 
Programming Contests 


by John Lees 

University of Missouri-Rolla 


Programming contests are a rather new form of competi¬ 
tive sport. I don't know when the first programming contest 
was held, but it can not have been too long ago; the neces¬ 
sary technology has been in existence no more than fifteen 
years. Such contests are probably a phenomenon of this 
decade, since the primary ingredient — crazy students of 
computer science — has been available in quantity only for 
the past few years. 

Just what is a programming contest? That is still open to 
definition at this time. I am going to describe my experi¬ 
ences as a co-chairman of the second Annual North Central 
Regional Programming Contest which was held at the 
University of Missouri-Rolla on April 17, 1976. The 
preceding year I was a contestant in the first North Central 
Regional, so I have now seen programming contests from 
both sides. If pressed on the question of whether I prefer 
being a contestant or being a co-chairman, I will reply, 
"Next time I think I'll just watch." 

The contests held at Rolla drew from twenty to twenty- 
five participants from the ACM's (Association for Com¬ 
puting Machinery) North Central Region, an area which 
includes about 400 Colleges, Universities and Junior 
Colleges, all of which were invited to participate. Each 
institution could send one team consisting of up to four stu¬ 
dent team members and a team sponsor to the contest. 
Teams had to pay their own transportation and lodging, but 
there were no fees associated with the contest itself. 
Facilities and time were donated by the UMR Computer 
Center, students, faculty and staff, with financial 
assistance from the ACM North Central Region. The UMR 
student chapter of the ACM was responsible for organizing 
and running the second annual contest. 

The exact form of a contest is dictated by the facilities 
available and by the need for a standard language. One of 
the most difficult requirements of a programming contest is 
that everyone must be programming in the same language, 
everyone must be aware of the language standard used, 
and the language must be popular enough that the con¬ 
testants don't have to learn it on the fly. Taking all three 
points into consideration there was no choice but to adopt 
ANSI FORTRAN IV as the contest language. No one in their 
right mind would think of a contest using COBOL, andthere 
are no other widely used programming languages. (Ed. 
note: BASIC?) 

The facilities at UMR are punchcard oriented, so teams 
were distributed around the building in such a way that 
each team had a keypunch, a table and blackboard space. To 
ensure essentially instant turnaround, we detached our¬ 
selves from the University Network and ran WATFIV, a fast, 
in-core student FORTRAN compiler, on our own 360/50. 
Contestants could read in their decks on a cardreader in the 
hall; another cardreader in the machine room was used to 
run decks which had been handed in for judging. Output 
was printed on an 1100 line-per-minute printer and handed 
back immediately after the run had been logged. 

Following an explanation of the contest rules and time to 
look over the facilities and locate their assigned rooms, the 


four contest problems were handed out and the contest 
began at 10:30 a.m., closing at 4:00 p.m. The teams could 
work the entire five and a half hours (most did), but pro¬ 
gram distribution was closed during a one and one-half 
hour lunch period: decks could be read in during that period, 
but no output was handed back and decks could not be 
handed in forjudging. 

Each team had to solve the same four problems. They 
could approach the task in any way they wished; all that 
counted was getting a program written in ANSI FORTRAN 
that would give the correct output when run with the offi¬ 
cial data. Most teams seemed to assign one member to each 
problem and work more or less independently, although it is 
not at all clear that this is the best of all possible strategies. 
As many runs as needed to debug a program (at 10 points 
penalty per run) could be made through the hall cardreader 
with any test data dreamed up by the contestants allowed. 
Once a team felt that they had a problem correctly pro¬ 
grammed, such that it would work to specification with any 
possible input data, the deck was handed in at program dis¬ 
tribution to be run with official data and judged. Submitting 
a deck for judging incurred a 15 point penalty plus a real¬ 
time penalty in that ten minutes or so were required for the 
deck to be run with official data and the source and output 
judged. 

If the judges found an incorrect answer or an ANSI viola¬ 
tion, the source listing was marked as such and handed 
back to the team for them to correct the problem and try 
again. The output of judged runs was not handed back, i.e., 
the contestants could not find out what the official data 
was. When a run was judged to be totally correct, the time of 
the run was put on the scoreboard and that team could 
forget about that problem. 

The problems were far from easy. This year only one 
team, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, completed all four 
problems to finish in first place. One team completed three 
problems and quite a few teams did not complete any of the 
four problems. The problems ranged from playing BINGO to 
a loading dock problem involving moving crates through a 
hall and around a corner (the program had to determine if 
the dimensions of a crate allowed it to be moved without 
tipping it on a corner). The winning team made seven 
judged and twelve non-judged runs. One team gave up 
before the contest was over and ran a job which printed the 
message "WE GIVE UP. WE ARE SLASHING OUR WRISTS 
IN THE RESTROOM." 2000 times. We felt that this was in 
rather poor taste and canceled the job. 

We feel that the First and Second Annual North Central 
Regional Programming Contests have been successful. The 
participants have all seemedto havefun and everything has 
run more smoothly than we have hoped for. (Note: 100 
dozen homemade cookies are too much for eighteen teams 
and assorted contest personnel to eat in one day. The same 
comment applies to 60 gallons of soda pop. 30 dozen donuts 
is about right.) One thing that bothers me is that program¬ 
ming contests seem to encourage anything but "good pro¬ 
gramming." The only thing that counts in a contest is 


42 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 










results, however gained. Perhaps someone can figure out 
how to have a contest in which programming technique and 
style are taken into account. 

What do you need to hold your own programming con¬ 
test? First of all you have to decide if you have the physical 
facilities. Acquiring the usage of an entire building, a good 
size computer system and twenty-five working key¬ 
punches for an entire day is not a trivial task. Of course it 
should be possible to use a different setup for running a 
contest. I'd like to see one run interactively in BASIC, but the 
problems of familiarizing teams with BASIC and with the 
interactive system, of there being no standard for BASIC 
and of scoring and allowing protected access to official data 
sets must first be surmounted. 

Once one has the facilities required to host a program¬ 
ming contest, all that is needed to pull one off is ten or 
fifteen people willing to enthusiastically write letters, type 
letters, duplicate letters, stuff envelopes, formulate rules, 
make plans, bake cookies, move keypunches, tear paper, 
answer questions, clean the place up, etc., etc., etc. The 
number of picky little details which must be taken care of 
during the four or five months it takesto plan and carry out a 
contest are staggering.* Having a few hundred dollars for 
postage and trophies and food doesn't hurt at all, either. To 
anyone crazy enough to host or to participate in a program¬ 
ming contest, I can only wish the best of luck! 


* A packet of information on how the UMR contests were set up may be had 
from: 

Dr. John Metzner 
Computer Science Department 
University of Missouri-Rolla 
Rolla, Missouri 65401 

Please include several stamps to help defray postage costs. 



"To err is human. To really foul up a computer takes a Man ." 


DARTMOUTH TO DESIGN, 
DEVELOP COMPUTER-BASED 
VISUAL RETRIEVAL SYSTEM 
UNDER EXXON GRANT 

HANOVER, N.H.—The Exxon Education Foundation has 
granted Dartmouth College $87,500 for the design and 
development of a computer-based system for retrieving 
visual information, such as reproductions of works of art, 
photographs of minerals, star maps and anatomical illus¬ 
trations, according to Prof. Arthur W. Luehrmann, assistant 
director of the Office of Academic Computing (OAC) and 
assistant director of the Office of Instructional Services and 
Educational Research (OISER). 

Professor Luehrmann described the system as one in 
which pictorial information will be reproduced as color 
images on microfiche cards. As many as fifty thousand 
different images will then be stored in a microfiche 
projector. The projector will be attached to an ordinary 
computer terminal on the Dartmouth Time Sharing System 
and will receive its commands from the computer. Five 
microfiche terminals will be acquired under the grant and 
will be used initially by the art and earth sciences depart¬ 
ments and the Hopkins Center Art Galleries. In future the 
system will be available to other departments. Data bases 
will be developed for information retrieval using Project 
Find. 

In describing the potential uses of the system, Professor 
Luehrmann cited several representative possibilities, 
including student use in art history courses. For example, 
the student might ask the computer to search through the 
entire art collection and retrieve all reproductions of a time 
period or style, including or excluding specific artists. The 
computer would then select all objects fulfilling the defini¬ 
tions of the student, and would project them in an order 
selected by the student onto the screen of the microfiche 
projector. 

Another user of the system might be a geology professor 
who would write a tutorial program with photographic illus¬ 
trations to teach certain concepts to students in a 
mineralogy course. The system could also be used by the 
staff of the Hopkins Center to plan art exhibits, by computer- 
assisted browsing through pictorial reproductions of the art 
collection, and making selections and deletions for a 
specific theme. 

Initial project work and planning were begun with the aid 
of a $9,400 award to OISER in October, 1975, by the Presi¬ 
dent's Venture Fund, established at Dartmouth by the Ford 
Foundation to encourage new educational projects. 

Much of the work on the OISER/OAC project, which will 
include computer programming, photography and prepara¬ 
tion of the microfiche images, will be conducted by 
students. Steven R. Johnson of Seneca Falls, N.Y., a 
bachelor of engineering candidate at the Thayer School of 
Engineering, has designed the computer interface for the 
projector. His work is supervised by Prof. Irving Thomas. Dr. 
Jan van der Marck, director of galleries and collections, will 
supervise cataloging activities for the Hopkins Center. 
Profs. Robert McGrath and Richard Birnie will oversee 
activities related to the art and earth sciences de¬ 
partments. Professor Luehrmann has responsibility for 
overall direction of the project. 


“On one occasion Aristotle was asked 
how much educated men were superior to 
those uneducated: ‘As much/ said he, ‘as the 
living are to the dead.* ” 

Diogenes Laertius 


SEP-OCT 1976 


43 



































STAR TREK 
LIVES! 



6000 "Trekkies" paid $20 each the weekend of February 
13, 1976, to attend the latest Star Trek Convention, a five- 
day extravaganza held in the Hotel Commodore. Star Trek — 
whose Starf/eet Technical Manual and Blueprints have 
captured top billing on the New York Times paperback lists 
for 15 weeks straight — is the creation of writer Gene 
Roddenberry. Roddenberry, whose latest obsession is a film 
version of Star Trek for Paramount Pictures, has seen his 
budget go from $186,000 for a 60-minute TV show to over 
$5 million for a 90-minute movie. Roddenberry is now 
dreaming of a new bridge where the rails are constructed of 
some marvellous new plastic instead of pine 2 x4's. He also 
wants the Enterprise crew to have computer displays and 
read out devices rather than phony mockups. The movie will 
start shooting the fall of 1976; release is scheduled for late 
summer 1977. 

The original Star Trek was made in the early 60's and 
what was then 10 years ahead of its time is now passe. 
Especially "the role of women" notes Roddenberry. In the 
original pilot, the crew was 50% male, 50% female. A 
woman was second in command. But that was the 60's and 
the executives with whom he worked were afraid that 
people would think that there was "too much fooling 
around out in space" so the ratio was reduced to 1:3. 

Gene Roddenberry's interests are far broader than 
science fiction. He reads widely and quotes freely from the 
classics and the latest TM books as well as from scifi. He 
feels that all people should broaden themselves to a wide 
range of literature, instead of keeping "blinders" on for just 
one thing. 

Roddenberry and his wife were glowing with excitement 
at the convention. When asked what makes Star Trek still 
live 10 years later, Mrs. Roddenberry said, "fans make it 
live. They make Star Trek real." Gene was a bit more 
philosophical and felt that the most important staying ele¬ 
ment in the Star Trek series is that it is "essentially a state¬ 
ment of optimism about tomorrow. And we don't have many 
of those today." Roddenberry is fundamentally a positive 
person; he feels that "a mind is a wonderful thing. It's a 
great computer." 

The 5-day convention was a hectic happening. There 
were autograph and photograph sessions, presentations by 
various stars and scifi authors (Isaac Asimov, Frederick 
Pohl, Gordon Dickson, etc.), an alien costume parade, an art 


show (with some very professional acrylics), a fanzine and 
book exhibit, and a huge dealer's room with 120 dealer 
tables. 

Ah yes, the dealer area. Frantic buying and selling of 
posters, books, film clips, photos, buttons, Mr. Spock ears, 
old and new comics, fanzines, balloons, T-Shirts, costumes, 
phasers, records, tapes, et al. 10 -minute specials on the 
loudspeaker. Wild mobs. Candice Bergen walked around 
the dealer area completely unnoticed, followed shortly by 
an NBC shooting crew. Little notice even then. Perhaps if 
she had Vulcan ears. 

At the Creative Computing table (yes, we go to all kinds of 
cons), Trekkies compared notes on different computer 
versions of Star Trek. Some versions had Romulans, others 
had wild space warp rules, one even had Tribbles! Most 
found Super Star Trek(Creaf/Ve, Vol. 1, No.4)totheir liking. 

One Trekkie came by and felt compelled to explain, while 
paying for his Mr. Spock computer image, that he was 
actually a Trekker (a rational fan). Whereas, he said, a 
Trekkie worships anything connected with Star Trek and 
would sell his or her mother for a pair of Spock ears. Oh, and 
if you're reading this article in secret and you slip into the 
bathroom with your portable TV to watch Star Trek because 
you're afraid of what your family or friends might say, 
there's now a button for you too... "Closet Trekkie." (These 
buttons were sported by several well-dressed very well- 
known people at the press reception.) 

There are over 25 Star Trek conventions every year, each 
one attended by 1,000 to 15,000 and more fans. (At 
Creative we'll attend one or two of these cons per year). 
There are also over 250 local Star Trek clubs so if you're a 
Trekkie, Trekker, or Closet Trekkie there's lots for you to do 
right here on earth exploring new worlds and following in 
the path blazed by the Enterprise crew, boldly going where 
no man has gone before. Live long and prosper! —DHA 


The Enterprise computer image above is one of a 
NEW set of 7 Star Trek computer images produced by 
Creative Computing. Also included in this set are Kirk, 
Spock, McCoy, Scott, Uhura, and Sulu. 8 V 2 XII on 
heavy stock. $1.50 postpaid from Creative Com¬ 
puting, P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 07960. 


44 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 





















































































STAR TREK 
INFOR¬ 
MATION 
EXCHANGE 


In this column, Creative Computing will 
list computer-related Star Trek materials 
such as programs, computer images, etc. 
Upper limit on material for sale is $20.00; 
people with higher-priced material should 
purchase an ad. 

Original Star Trek 
Game in BASIC 

One of the first Star Trek computer games 
in BASIC to appear widely was actually 
mislabeled SPACWR (Spacewar) in 101 
BASIC Computer Games. It was designed 
for BASIC-PLUS on RSTS-11 but can be 
easily modified for other versions of BASIC. 
101 Games is available for $7.50 plus 75c 
postage from Creative Computing, P.O. Box 
789-M, Morristown, NJ 07960. 


CDC Fortran Star Trek 

For Control Data 6000 series or any Cyber 
series running under either NOS or 
KRONOS. Will run on other systems with 
slight modifications. The program is called 
“STARK” and is written in FORTRAN with 
some simple CDC assembler ... fully 
documented. Will send copy on paper for 
$2.00 to cover postage ’and handling or 
FREE in exchange for any other Star Trek 
program. Includes 50 page Information- 
Instruction Manual. (New Version 3.0.0 
available October 1976.) The version has 27 
commands. Send to: C.D. Foley, F502 
Wilkeson Quad, SUNYAB-Amherst Cam¬ 
pus, Buffalo, New York 14261. 


BASIC Super Star Trek 
on Cards for Nova 

I work for an engineering-research 
organization that has a Data General 840 
NOVA computer. Running on the NOVA at 
the present time is the Super Star Trek game 
that appeared in the May-June, 1975 issue of 
Creative Computing. Our physical copy is in 
BASIC punched on cards. We would be 
happy to send a copy of it to whomever 
might desire it for a break-even price of the 
cards, postage and duplication, of $10. 

The mailing address is: Mr. Michael 
Tomayko, c/o Kaman AviDyne, 83 Second 
Avenue, NW Industrial Park, Burlington, 
Massachusetts 01803 


Enterprise T-Shirt 

A beautiful midnight blue T-Shirt with a 
large detailed Enterprise and stars design in 
silver is available from Creative Computing. 
No wording of any kind appears on the shirt. 
$4.00 postpaid from Creative Computing, 
P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 07960. 


APL Star Trek Listing 

I have a Star Trek computer game written 
in APL. It’s feature is that it can be set for 
various levels of difficulty, allowing the 
enemy to take evasive action and generally 
be rather hard to kill. 

I am working on a 3-D version, but only in 
my spare time, and it will probably not be 
ready for quite awhile. 

I am willing to ‘give’ the programs away, 
but I need to ask $ l to cover my effort and 
the postage for the listings. 

Send to David B. Wood, 5108 Viking Rd., 
Bethesda, MD 20014. 

Battle Simulation Games 

I have 2 Star Trek Battle Games, a two 
dimensional, and a three dimensional. Each 
is about 400 lines of standard BASIC. They 
are completely random battle simulators. I 
will sell them for $15.00 each (paper tape 
extra). The price includes full source listing; 
documentation, and instructions and hints. 
For more info send stamp to Mike Aurelius, 
1318 18th Avenue South, St. Cloud, 

Minnesota 56301. 

PL/I Star Trek Listing 

“I have a Star Trek game which runs in 
PL/I (CPS or other conversational system) 
on IBM 360/65. For a copy of the program 
(which runs about 25-30 x 11 pages) 
please write to: John Braue, 407 Sherman 
House, University of Connecticut, Storrs, 
Ct. 06268. Please send $5; “U. Conn, is 
incredibly nasty about photoreproduction.” 

Advanced Star Trek 
in PL/I 

This PL/I games is 1600 statements long 
(100K compiled) for an. IBM 370/158 
running OS/VS with TSO option. Enemy 
aliens consist of Klingons in two types of 
ship with different capabilities; Romulans 
which are invisible, move about and trail the 
Enterprise; and Tholians which attack in 
groups of three with weblike tractor beams. 
15 commands. Main Federation ship is the 
Enterprise; the Fairy Queen is also available 
in emergencies. Galaxy is 10x10 with 10x10 
sectors. Time travel is possible but very 
dangerous. 

Game will be sent in source form with all 
JCL necessary. Also on cards will be 
included the rules and sideview picture of the 
Enterprise. Cost for the entire box of 2000 
cards plus postage is $10.00. Also can be 
copied onto your magtape, but write first. 
Might also consider swaps; make an offer! 

John R. Bane, P.O. Box 3125, University 
Station, Clemson, SC 2963 L* 

Computer Images of 
Star Trek People 

A new set of 7 extensively detailed 
computer images of Star Trek people is now 
available from Creative Computing. (The 
new images have solid black borders — the 
old ones had no borders). Kirk, Spock, 
McCoy, Scott, Uhura, Sulu and the Enter¬ 
prise. S ] /2 x 11, heavy stock. $1.50 per set 
postpaid. Creative Computing, P.O. Box 
789-M, Morristown, NJ 07960. 


Klugy APL 
Star Trek Game 

Bob Leedom’s Super Star Trek* 
(Creative, Vol 1, No 4) is about the best I’ve 
run across, and plays very well. I have an 
extremely klugy version in APL (a 
somewhat restricted subset of Super Star 
Trek) which I’d be glad to trade with anyone 
who is interested. It does work and the local 
college has been using it heavily. Write Bob 
Wier, Recreation Technology, P.O. Box 
9209, College Station, TX 77840 

♦Super Star Trek is now available only in 
“The Best of Creative Computing-Vol. 1” — 
$8.95 plus 75c postage from us at Creative. 

Star Trek for Altair 8800 

A version of Star Trek is now available for 
the Altair 8800. It is written in Altair 4 K 
BASIC and is available from International 
Data Systems Inc. The purchase price of $10 
(checks OK) includes a complete program 
source listing, operational instructions, tips 
on how to “patch” the program to add your 
own features, a one year limited warranty 
against “bugs,” and postage and handling. 
Star Trek Offer, International Data Systems 
Inc, PO Box 593001-AMF, Miami FL 
33159. 

Dice Star Trek 

Star Trek as a computer game dates back 
to the late 1960s. Versions have been widely 
published in the HP User Library, 101 
BASIC computer games, and Creative 
Computing (May-Jun 1975). It is probably 
the single most popular and most addictive 
computer game. Now, good news for those 
with no computer: Dice Star Trek (DST). 
This game is a rare example of a board (or 
manual) game being modeled on a computer 
game. And what a model it is! DST simulates 
virtually every aspect of the computer 
version: navigation, short-range scan, long- 
range scan, phasers, photon torpedoes, 
shields, damage control, etc. Be warned: it’s 
complicated—the instructions run to 34 
pages (!) and there are 12 detailed “cards” 
which supply galactic sector conditions, 
phaser hit information, on-board computer 
calculations, damage information, etc. 

Marion Stubbs, author of DST, writes 
that games of DST “last for days or weeks. 
Perhaps months if one takes time off in 
between. Two hours vanish like magic. It’s a 
wonderful, absorbing, and satisfying solo 
game.” Although long, the instructions are 
clear and thorough (Marion is editor of 
M500, the math newsletter of the British 
Open University). 

Cost of the 52-page game booklet is only 
$2.00. Send cash (overseas checks are bad 
news going either way). Marion says, “we 
like dollars here, even if you don’t like £s.” 

Marion Stubbs, 176 Midanbury Lane, 
Southampton S09 4GX, England. 


No More, Please 

Peter Weiss wrote asking me to inform 
readers that he can no longer supply Fortran 
Star Trek listings. He apparently got deluged 
after his letter appeared in Creative. Please, 
no more to Peter. 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


45 





THE ART OF EDUCATION: 
BLUEPRINT FOR A RENAISSANCE 

Thomas A. Dwyer 
Project Solo 
University of Pittsburgh 
Pittsburgh, PA 15260 


Crises come and go in public education, and our present 
times are no exception. The statistics about student and 
teacher dropouts (not to mention violence and senseless 
destruction of property) are known well enough, but the 
deeper losses signalled by these symptoms have been 
obscured by other pressures in society today. We desperate¬ 
ly need the insights of careful and calm thought if the 
opportunities made possible by years of hard work are not 
to escape our grasp. 

A starting point is to recognize that the real tragedy to fear 
is the waste of those human qualities that are cultivatable 
only in the fleeting years of childhood, qualities without 
which the wisdom of mature years will never flourish. An 
educational system is important only if it is literally a cradle 
of wisdom; all other issues—personally satisfying careers, 
new knowledge, even the fate of civilization itself—flow 
from this premise. 

But wisdom is an intangible and idealistic concept while 
educational systems are tangible and nitty-gritty realities. 
How can there ever be a lasting union of these two worlds? I 
believe that part of the secret to managing this challenge is 
to view education as an advanced art. Because it is the most 
demanding of arts, it admittedly needs the modern tools of 
science, business, and especially technology. In fact, it is 
only the balance of an artistic viewpoint that will extract real 
substance from these other advances. 


The Magic of Technology 

A phonograph is placed in a room with a small group of 
listeners. A well-made recording of a Verdi opera is placed 
on the turntable, and for an hour or so the listeners 
concentrate on everything they hear. We then ask the 
question: What have the listeners received? 

The answer is that the amount, subtlety, and utility of 
information received by each person is radically dependent 
on the history of experiences (or “cultural background”) 
each person brings to the listening room. A listener raised in 
Napoli within a community that lived and breathed opera, 
will actually “hear” things that are beyond comprehension 
for other listeners. Even more startling will be the depth of 
information absorbed by a listener who has been a creative 
worker in the field of opera, whether at the composing, 
performing, or production levels. At the other extreme, a 
listener who has had no part of the operatic culture, will 
literally be hearing mostly “noise.” Efforts aimed at 
perfecting either the record or record player will not 
substantially change this situation. 

Our imagined experiment reveals three fundamental 
approaches to bringing about learning, and makes clear the 
remarkable catalytic interactions they can have on one 
another. These approaches (or techniques) can be describ¬ 
ed in terms of the adjectives “transmittal”, “experiential”, 
and “creative”. 


The Magic of Art 

Walking through an art museum produces an exhilaration 
that is hard to' explain. The exhibits are static, and mostly 
from places and times foreign to the visitor. What kind of 
magic is it that can transcend these barriers and touch us so 
deeply? I think it is the awesome realization that we are 
seeing one common world interpreted in as many in¬ 
credibly different ways as there are artists. 

I propose that the way to bring a Renaissance to education 
is to view its global character as homomorphic to this 
dynamic “one-world, many-understandings” lesson from 
art. I believe that an educational system will become a cradle 
of wisdom when it learns to build genuine artistic diversity, 
based on common experience, controlled by discipline 
willingly embraced because there is real purpose. 1 

How to manage this challenge is of course a tough 
question. Remarkably, it is answered in part by again 
returning to the world of art. To see why, consider the 
following “thought” experiment. 



46 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 







determined by schemata unique to each learner. It 
therefore argues that factual data given to a learner through 
“instruction” doesn't become knowledge until it has 
somehow or other been fitted to these schemata. This 
means that instruction makes sense only when it recognizes 
the existence of an internal representation/transformation 
system unique to each person. The example of how 
instructors of blind students learn to respect the inter¬ 
nalizations of others shows how this theoretical view can 
translate into very practical pedagogical methods. 3 

The revolutionary goal that follows from this stance is to 
design a school where the students assume from the 
beginning that their task is to invent all knowledge. A good 
way to clarify what this goal means is to immediately address 
two obvious questions: 

(1) Does this goal rule out teachers, books, lectures, 
television, films, or CAl? Definitely not. What it does is 
revolutionize the use of these “transmittal” elements, 
and give each of them revolutionary goals of their own. 
As the main goal suggests, there is a radical difference 
in the learning of two students attending the same 
lecture when one student views his task as ingestion 
followed by regurgitation, 4 while the other has the 
goal of appropriating (or rejecting) ideas for either 
present or future use in personal invention. 5 

(2) Does this goal imply abandonment of what is usually 
called a curriculum structure? No, but it does imply 
very different approach to the design and use of such a 
structure. Our successful use of a “top down” 
approach to curriculum writing at Soloworks illustrates 
one way in which the design process can take on very 
new dimensions. 6 


No knowledge is really transmitted; it 
must all be created. 


Transmittal techniques are those that attempt to pass on 
ideas, facts, skills, etc. from person to person. As our 
experiment suggests, this information can be both limited 
and cryptic, and heavily immersed in “noise.” But when we 
add a human receiver to the system, there now arises the 
possibility of retrieving, reconstructing, and even creating 
content from the original noisy signal, provided the 
appropriate experiential and creative faculties of that 
human listener have been enabled. 

We have been using this model at the Soloworks 2 lab to 
guide our use of technology as both an art and a craft. In 
particular, we have been investigating the potential of 
computer-based technology for providing invigorating sets 
of experiences that will sensitize students as expert 
“receivers” in a laboratory-based mathematics curriculum. 
We have also used this same technology to support students 
in creative work, so that they will not only get maximum 
benefit from the transmittal elements of the curriculum, but 
will themselves eventually contribute to the growing body 
of knowledge from which transmittal mode draws. 

To extend these ideas from a laboratory level to the 
difficult arena of public education, more than “advanced 
technology” is needed. We must also work at defining 
“advanced goals” that stimulate new thinking and new 
dedication. We must develop models that clarify the role of 
technology within the “advanced art” needed to support 
such goals. Finally, we must address some very practical 
questions, and ask what “advanced crafts” are needed to 
implement these goals, what they will cost, and what 
alternate or redundant branches are needed in our plan to 
assure high reliability and success. Let me go into some 
detail. 


Advanced Goals 

The question is sometimes asked “how do you decide 
which things the student is to invent (or re-invent), and 
which things are to be accepted on the say-so of teachers 
and books—after all, time is limited, and no one can re¬ 
invent ail knowledge.” One flaw in this rhetorical argument 
is the assumption that acquiring knowledge from others is 
time-efficient, and that therefore the main job of education 
is to accelerate and refine the transmittal process. 

A more imaginative (and I believe a much more 
productive) position is that no knowledge is really 
transmitted; it must all be created. This view starts with the 
assumption that knowledge is a medley of many com¬ 
ponents and relations, and that the resultant “whole” is 




SEP-OCT 1 976 


47 













The most fascinating place to be is at 
the podium, not in the audience; 
this is a tremendously important 
point. 


I believe that an important sub-goal of the educational 
setting being recommended would be to invent techniques 
that transmit certain major ideas almost instantaneously. For 
example, we once wrote (with great difficulty) a rather long, 
cleverly illustrated explanation of what time-sharing really 
meant to a computer user. Now all we have to do is let these 
users hear music played as one job on our time-sharing 
system, and they immediately know more about both the 
qualitative and quantitative aspects of time-sharing than we 
were ever able to describe in writing. By linking this 
demonstration to remembered ideas about the regularity 
and timing of music, we have made the new idea of time¬ 
sharing completely transparent. 

A meta-goal that comes out of this sub-goal is to involve 
the students in creating similarly radical “teaching” 
techniques. On a more general level, this meta-goal 
translates into a concern for, and analysis of, learning itself, 
but by the students as well as the educators. 

Education as an Advanced Art; Relation to Technology 

In setting the advanced goals that have just been 
described, I have tried to combine imagination with insights 
that come out of laboratory experience. I have also tried to 
set goals that are theoretically realizable. Now I must 
address the question of what overall architecture is needed 
to support this realization. 

The model proposed is not describable with formulas or 
flowcharts. Its structure is suggested much more by words 
like “culture” and “community,” while its realization is 
dependent on the ideas of “orchestration” and “adaptabili¬ 
ty.” Its inner workings spring from a concern for honesty, 
discipline, and responsibility, while the dominant character 
it seeks is one of enthusiasm, friendliness, and humor. 

This list of descriptors is not as Utopian as it may seem. It 
suggests in fact the kind of total image we attach to the 
workings of serious art. For this reason I suggest that the 
process of developing and refining an architecture for 
education be viewed as an advanced art, rather than a 
science, business, or social service. 

Let me further illustrate the power of viewing education 
as an advanced art by focusing on one of these descriptors 


(“orchestration”), and then applying it to the specific 
problem of selecting and using technology in education/ 

The diversity of views on how to use technology 
(computers in particular) for education can be very 
confusing. These views range from single-minded advocacy 
of computers as automated drill, practice, and “tutoring” 
systems, to the belief that the real payoff will come when 
every child has a personal computer to be used as a kind of 
“supertoy.” 

The idea of orchestration helps sort things out by 
reminding us of the advantages in a rich palette of tonal 
colors. It suggests that new textures can be created, and new 
dimensions explored, by exploiting differences, not 
sameness. (It also says that the most fascinating place to be is 
at the podium, not in the audience; this is a tremendously 
important point.) 

To introduce a somewhat more abstract but (at least for 
mathematicians) more extensible terminology, we can say 
that the pbwer of the orchestration concept flows from the 
idea of orthogonality of components. In a way this is an 
unexpected result; it says that global unity comes out of 
local diversity, it argues that new dimensions are possible 
precisely because our new technological tools do not all 
point in the same direction, and because they are not all 
hardware oriented. It is a result with implications as 
profound for education as was the discovery of the role of 
independent but rich basis elements in structuring extra¬ 
ordinarily imaginative spaces for mathematics. 

This abstract idea translates nicely into practice. At one 
level, we have found it useful to think of three orthogonal 
classes of tools described by the words transmittal, 
experiential, and creative (recall our phonograph experi¬ 
ment). For example, a CAI lesson belongs in the first class, an 
interactive simulation in the second, and a debugging 
session or synthesis project in the third. It is also useful to 
distinguish orthogonalities within classes. For example, 
exploiting the contrasts between transmittal elements such 
as CAI sessions, books, films, and lectures is much more 
effective than trying to make them equivalent, pointing all 
in the same direction. There is much more payoff in building 
multi-dimensional systems from elements that contain 
different intrinsic perspectives. 

Past educational systems have been denied such hyper- 
dimensionality. What the recent developments of computer 
technology (and computer science) now present to us is a 
large set of non-trivial orthogonal basis elements. We must 
of course continue to enrich this set. But we are also ready to 
begin work on another enterprise, namely the art of 
creating new and complex “forms” that generate im¬ 
aginative educational systems from this growing basis. It is 



48 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 















Some of the elements that we see as essential to such an 
undertaking are the following: 

1. A Set of Advanced Goals 

2. An architecture based on the idea of education as a 
complex art made possible by new ideas, theories, 
strategies, and technologies. 

3. A view of education that sees more power in the ideas 
of community and culture, than in the methodologies 
of business or science. 

4. Craftsmen with complementary skills, including 
teachers who like to teach, all kinds of students, 
theoreticians, engineers, and imaginative ad¬ 
ministrators. 

5. An extensive collection of the orthogonal materials 
needed to support an adaptive curriculum. 

6. Advanced tools, especially those related to the general 
purpose computer, and post 1970 man-machine inter¬ 
faces. 

7. An administrative sub-structure that fosters initiative, 
controls unproductive overhead, and encourages 
continued experimentation. 

8. A built in proof-of-performance mechanism which 
gives constant attention to good communication with 
others through use of imaginative media. 

9. Most important of all, the recognition that good art is 
the product of singular devotion. A great deal of 
attention should be given to mechanisms that make it 
impossible for vested interests, or committee-type 
compromise and mediocrity to ever settle in. 

While we have some specific ideas on the forms such 
structures might take, a true educational renaissance will be 
possible only when a multitude of “artistic" views are 
brought to bear. We have received many letters at 
Soloworks proving that there are lots of such good views, 
representing lots of good people, and we continue to invite 
this feedback. Well try to synthesize as many of these views 
as possible in our 1976 final report on Soloworks. 

1 A complementary view is found in Mark Van Doren's book "LIBERAL 
EDUCATION” where he urges that the work of education "be done as 
artists do things, with skill and thorough care, and with a reverence not 
hostile to high spirits.” 

2 Soloworks is the informal name of an NSF project entitled "A Computer- 
Based Laboratory for High School Mathematics.” 

3 For further detail, see page 142 of T. Dwyer "Heuristic Strategies for Using 
Computers to Enrich Education” (Soloworks Newsletter #26). 

4 That most students view this as their function is easily proved by listening to 
student conversations in the hall after an exam. "What did you give for 
#4?,” "I don't think that's what he wanted,” and "I'm glad that's over” are 
common and revealing reactions. 

5 To illustrate by example we cite the adult who still (35 years later) 
remembers every single word of a German translation of a silly song 
because it was created by a class plot to have each student interrupt the 
lesson every few minutes and ask the teacher for the German equivalent of 
successively needed words. 

6 For further detail, see "The Significance of Solo-Mode Learning for 
Curriculum Design”, Soloworks Newsletter #33. 


If educational administrators run un¬ 
imaginative educational shops, it's 
because they must spend most of 
their time responding to anti- 
imaginative pressures. 


no exaggeration to assert that the rewards of such efforts will 
be structures with elegances considerably greater than 
those found in any of their parts. 


Education as a Craft 

We now come to the problem of translating artistic ideals 
into reliable practice in an imperfect world. We must now 
ask what policies, skills, techniques, materials, tools, and 
craftsmen are needed to successfully put together and 
maintain the kind of educational enterprise we have 
described. 

Particular attention needs to be given to developing new 
ideas about educational administration, especially the 
“killer demands" of overhead. If educational administrators 
run unimaginative educational shops, it's because they must 
spend most of their time responding to anti-imaginative 
pressures. Very few of them are given the chance to break 
out of this pattern. It's definitely the squeaking wheel that 
seems to grab most of their attention. As a result, fresh ideas 
are seldom supported, and initiative soon dies of loneliness. 
The solution to this problem is not to ignore administration, 
but to design new administrative climates. Making distinc¬ 
tions between “creative", “logistical", and “fiscal" ad¬ 
ministration will be an important first step. 

There is not space to discuss the other crafts needed 
except in summary form. However it is worth reporting that 
a number of us working with these ideas have found that 
many of the needed talents are best developed “in-house." 
The idea of using older students and alumni as part of a first- 
rate staff works very well in practice, especially when there 
are good teachers around who know how to energize young 
talent. 


Summary 

Our experience at Soloworks indicates that the learning 
phenomena we (and others doing similar work) have 
observed in settings of the type described in this paper are 
extensible, workable, and applicable. We believe that this 
experience can be applied to new educational structures 
that have been explicitly engineered from the ground up as 
advanced artistic enterprises. 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


49 
























Computing At The University of Texas 


Predictions that computers someday would replace 
teachers in the classroom have long been made, but 
replacing teachers has not been the goal of computer-based 
education at The University of Texas. 

In the words of Dr. George Culp, coordinator of instruc¬ 
tional computing for the UT Computation Center, computer- 
based instruction is directed toward "relieving the instruc¬ 
tor of routine work and freeing him for more effective 
contact with students." 

Instructional computing has been done for several years 
on UT's CDC 6600/6400 SYSTEM, one of the most power¬ 
ful computers in the world. The Computation Center also 
has a NOVA 840 which performs some of the instructional 
programs, and the center recently has added a DEC-10 sys¬ 
tem which is especially well-suited for instructional com¬ 
puting. 

The DEC-10 gives priority to classroom instructional 
users and its BASIC offers extensions and instructional 
features beyond those available on the CDC 6600/6400 
system. 

Instructional computing is basically interactive, meaning 
that the student actually 'talks' to the computer through a 
typewriter device, and the computer responds. 

For example, if the computer asks a question, the student 
responds and then is told whether his answer is correct. 
Programs can be set up in a number of ways, but essen¬ 
tially interactive computing means that the user receives 
immediate response which gives students an idea about 
their progress, as well as reinforcing learning. 

UT's extensive use of the computer in the classroom 
received a substantial boost from a four-year National 
Science Foundation-sponsored project known as Project C- 
BE (computer-based education). 

The intent of Project C-BE was to apply computers to the 
teaching of science and engineering courses, but the 
success of the project's application to other areas is 
attested to by the fact that 27 courses at UT, ranging from 
chemistry to English, now are taught with the aid of 
computers. 

"We would like to expand the use of the computer for 
instruction," says Dr. Culp, "and with the addition of the 
DEC-10 to our facility, we have the capability to do so." 

He adds: 

"One of the problems we have to overcome is the 
reluctance a lot of people have to using the computer, which 
they perceive to be impersonal." 

In truth, the computer can be used to assist the instructor 
in achieving closer personal contact with students. 

"We are aware of the problem, and do everything we can 
to overcome it, but our best spokesmen are the instructors 
on campus who are using interactive computing as part of 
their teaching." 

Dr. J. J. Lagowski, professor of chemistry, and Dr. John 
Allan, associate professor of mechanical engineering, were 
co-directors of Project C-BE. Dr. Lagowski says he first 
began to consider the use of the computer as an 
instructional aid in 1965 when he faced the task of 
coordinating chemistry courses for more than 3,000 
freshmen. 

"A lot of information is lost in transmitting knowledge 
from professor to graduate student and then to student," 
Dr. Lagowski says. "My aim in developing computer 
instruction was to forestall this loss of information, not to 
replace the instructor." 


With the aid of computers, teachers can be more flexible 
in their use of time while teaching large classes, he 
explains. 

"Before, I was doing the work in the classroom that 
students could have been doing on their own and learning 
better than could be taught in a lecture," he explains. "I am 
now able to present the great schemes of chemistry and 
nature in my lectures. Students are receiving the benefits of 
what machines do best and what people do best." 

"I am completely sold on the concept," he adds. "We have 
the data to prove that students do better than they did before 
the computer became part of our program." 

Dr. Walt Reed, assistant professor of mechanical 
engineering, is using instructional computing to teach 
kinematics, which is the study of the motion of mechanical 
devices. 

In the course of learning kinematics, beginning engi¬ 
neering students also learn the basics of computing which 
they will use throughout their careers. 

Students in Dr. Reed's course use a television-like screen 
to draw machine designs with an electronic "light pen." 
They describe the motions they wish their design to make by 
using symbols. 

"What appears on the screen is exactly what would occur 
if the student built the device in the workshop," says Dr. 
Reed, "but the computer can show the student more than 
he could see if he had actually built the machine." 

The computer. Dr. Reed explains, is usedtodothingsthat 
otherwise could not be done in the course. 

"One of our biggest problems in engineering education is 
that we lose a lot of good potential engineers because of the 
drudgery they face mastering the necessary basics," says 
Dr. Reed. "They are anxious to perform actual engineering 
tasks, and the computer makes this possible." 


In the College of Business Administration, Dr. Joel Stutz, 
assistant professor of computer science, is teaching 



Pat Caroom (left), manager of the DEC-10 system at The University of Texas 
at Austin, and Judith West, programmer, design software for the system 
dedicated to iriteractive instructional computing at UT. Elissa Vogel (at 
console) is a system operator. 


50 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 










beginning statistics which also introduces business 
students to basic computing. 

"The goal in my course is to teach-students enough about 
computing so that they will be able to communicate with 
specialists as they will be doing throughout their careers," 
Dr. Stutz says. 

The Graduate School of Library Science is employing the 
computer to prepare students for their careers as 
professional librarians in a field which is becoming 
increasingly computerized. 

"Our students are mostly inexperienced with the 
computer," says Dr. Ron Wyllys, assistant professor of 
library science, "but we are confident that the experience 
they gain here, both in computer basics and the actual use 
of computers as they are used in libraries, prepares them for 
their careers." 

Computers are being used now in courses and subject 
areas that once were thought to be impossible to translate 
into terms that could be used by computers. 

Dr. Susan Wittig, assistant professor of English, uses the 
computer to teach freshman English. 

The computer cannot make subjective judgments about 
the quality of a student's work, but many freshmen are 
deficient in the basic skills of writing and communicating. In 
Dr. Wittig's classes the computer is used to teach and 
reinforce the basic mechanics of English grammar. 

Dr. Culp says that the possibilities of instructional 
computing are just beginning to be realized. 

"With the addition of the DEC-10 we have increased the 
services the Computation Center can offer to the faculty 
who wish to use computer-aided instruction," he points 
out. 

"Among the features of the DEC-10 are the ability of the 
user to switch to a calculation mode during an instruction 
program," he explains. "That is important in many types of 
applications that we could not handle before." 

Another advantage of the DEC-10 is its record-keeping 
capability. The instructor can find out immediately such 
information as how many students have completed a lesson 
or look at the performance record of an individual student. 
Another advantage is the upper case/lower case printer 
which has made classroom material more readable as well 
as providing a means to add emphasis on terminal output. 

"Many of our users have requested the capabilities we 
now have," says Ms. Pat Caroom, manager of the DEC-10 
and NOVA systems for the Computation Center, "and we 
are ready to help potential users develop any special pro¬ 
grams they might need." 

Dr. Culp points out the Computation Center is mainly a 
service facility, designed to help researchers and teachers 
use the computer to its full capacity. 

Under the direction of Dr. Charles Warlick, the UT 
Computation Center is among the most diverse and modern 
academic centers in the country. 

This spring the center is conducting a series of seminars 
to familiarize users and potential users with the capabilities 
of the DEC-10. 

"We encourage everyone, whether they have any knowl¬ 
edge or prior experience with the computer, to call on our 
staff any time they have questions or ideas," Dr. Culp says, 
"and we will do our best to meet their specific needs for 
instructional computing use." 

If the growth of computing in the recent past is any indica¬ 
tion of future trends, instructional computing will have a 
large impact on higher education, and the UT Computation 
Center will play a large role in creating that future. 


“The best way to have a good idea is to 
have lots of ideas.” 


Linus Pauling 


COMPUTERS IN 
SECONDARY 
SCHOOLS—1975 

A second study funded by the NSF on the use of 
computers in secondary education was completed in the fall 
of 1975 by the American Institutes for Research (The first 
study was done by the AIR in 1970). Principal investigators 
were William Bukoshi and Arthur Korotkin. The sample 
consisted of 25% of U.S. School Districts; about 65% of 
these responded. 

Major conclusions of the study were as follows: 

• Since 1970 computing in secondary education has 
steadily increased with 58.2 percent of the schools that 
responded to the survey indicating they are currently 
using a computer for administrative and/or instructional 
purposes (34.4. percent in 1970). 

• The trend is toward more fully using the computer. Of 
schools using computers, only those using them for both 
administrative and instructional uses increased from 
1970 to 1975 (26.2 percent to 37.5 percent). The 
percentage of schools using computers for only ad¬ 
ministrative or only instructional purposes dropped from 
1970 to 1975 (62.5 percent to 54.1 percent for 
administration; 11.3 percent to 8.4 percent for instruc¬ 
tional). 

• Given the findings concerning the growth of secondary 
school computing for the last five years (1970-1975), and 
with the assumption that the current rate of adoption of 
computer technology in the schools (4.8 percent/year) 
will continue, it can be projected that within the next 
decade every secondary school in the country will have 
access to a computer system for some type of ad¬ 
ministrative and/or instructional application. 

• Respondents indicated that using the computer as a 
"problem-solving tool" and as a subject area for 
"computer science" courses were the most frequently 
utilized instructional applications in secondary educa¬ 
tion. 

• In schools using computers CAI has increased from 8.4 
percent in 1970 to 13.8 percent in 1975. 

• The predominant instructional use of computers in 1975 
is still for mathematics. 

• With regard to administration the most frequent uses of 
the computer are for student accounting and resource ' 
management. 

• The BASIC language has become the predominant 
computer language for instructional computing. 

• Schools using computers tended to be larger than non¬ 
user schools (median number of students 1000 versus 
400). The size of the user schools, however, is smaller 
than in 1970, when the median number of students was 
1347. 

• The current survey indicates that over 90 percent of the 
funding for educational computing at the secondary 
school level comes from local and state sources. 

• Despite the growth in computing activities, there was 
virtually no change since 1970 in the relative amount of 
the operating budget spent for instructional computing 
($0.18 per $100 of school expenditures in 1975 versus 
$0.17 in 1970). 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


51 










by 

David H. Ahl 


On a trip to Russia in April 1974,1 took the opportunity to 
visit the Exhibition of Economic Achievement of the 
U.S.S.R. Occupying 550 acres, it is similar to a small world's 
fair. It encompasses some 80 large pavilions each devoted 
to a different branch of agriculture, industry, or science. It 
also includes a circular cinema, open-air stadium, and many 
restaurants, few of which were open during our visit in 
early April. There was still a fair amount of snow on the 
ground and what wasn't snow was mud so it was hardly 
ideal weather for tramping around an outdoor exhibition. 

There are pavilions devoted to atomic energy, physics, 
chemistry, civil architecture, culture, printing, fur breeding, 
education, public health, radio, space exploration, and 
many other areas. I visited several of these briefly and 
found, somewhat to my dismay, that often the three story 
front facade stood in front of a small one story, 2 or 3 room 
display. Impressive from the outside, but not much depth. 

One pavilion I did visit at some length was the computer 
pavilion. There were no signs in English, nor could any of 
the guides inside speak English, hence my account is based 
strictly on personal observation. There were two large 
computers in operation, one a batch system (EC-1020) that 
looked like a cross between a 1401 and 360/30 or 40. The 
peripherals looked decidedly vintage, particularly the card 
reader and tape drives. The other system (M-4030) was a 
time-sharing system with a front panel that reminded me of 
a flattened PDP-15; the rocker switches were identical. It 
appeared to use a 32-bit work length. Most of the terminals 
on the timesharing system were CRTs with quite large 
screens (12" or more). The terminals were bulky and gave a 
strong impression of functional utility. The Russian 
equivalent to our Teletype looks very much like an ASR-37 
except the tape reader and punch are nicely recessed to the 
right of the keyboard. Their 2781 equivalent looks 
something like an IBM Model B electric typewriter, moving 
carriage and all. Keypunches look like carbon copies of the 
029. 

A nice young girl tried to explain text editing to me with 
much gesturing and pointing. The terminal had almost all 
the capability of the Dataspeed 40 — scrolling, line 
insertion, line deletion, etc. When you get your copy OK on 
the CRT, you press a button and it types out on the attached 
(local) printer. The major differences between it and the 
Dataspeed 40 are that intelligence is in the CPU, not the 
terminal, and the hefty, ungainly size of the unit. 

I saw much other hardware, both operational and some 
just on display. (Most of the center was fully in use—the 
Russians don't leave expensive hardware unused.) 
Throughout the display, I saw no signs of any minicom¬ 
puters or microprocessors. Nor, in my entire trip, did I see a 
single pocket calculator, not even in GUM, the largest store 
in Moscow. 

I asked one of our guides, a graduate of the University of 
Moscow, about the use of computers in schools. College 
students, particularly in mathematics and science, are 
exposed to them although apparently to a lesser degree 
than in the United States. High School students do not use 
computers. Our guide, who had a wonderful sense of 
humor, told us of an experimental computers system to 
translate one language to another. When given the English 
phrase "Out of sight, out of mind" it translated it into 
Russian as a "blind idiot." Think about itl 


Instructor points to register of Russian M4030 timesharing system. 


Russian version of the Teletype. 


RUSSIAN COMPUTING- 
ONE MAN’S VIEW 


52 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 











Typical pavilion at the USSR Economic Achievements Exhibition— Keypunch machine, 

large facade but only one or two rooms inside. 



Console of a Russian EC-1020 batch processing computer system. 



Typical Russian CRT terminal. Most have very large screens. 



Russians are required to put their zip code in machine-readable 
form on the bottom left side of envelopes. 


A postcard view of Moscow University. During my visit the ground 
was snow covered and the sky cloud covered. 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


53 









































Polls, Pols, and Power: 

The Computer on the Hustings 

by Nicholas Acocella 


Politicians have been running for whatever office is 
available for as long as democracy has been around. It's the 
nature of the beast. Recent innovations in computer 
technology, while not noticeably affecting the volume of 
political activity, have created a paradox in modern 
campaigning, making it, at the same time, more complex 
and more simple. 

On the one hand, political campaigning, like everything 
else in American life, has become a matter for specialists 
engaged in sophisticated pursuits not readily understood by 
the layman. At the same time, campaigning would have 
grown more complex even without the advent of com¬ 
puters, which seem to be part of the solution tothe problem 
they simultaneously helped create. 

At any rate, the ward heelers of yesteryear, with their 
derby hats, cigar stubs, and local accents,have yielded their 
places in the average campaign headquarters to specialists 
retained for their technical expertise rather than for their 
first hand knowledge of conditions in the third ward. 

This new breed tends to be younger, more modestly 
dressed, and better educated than the precinct captains 
they pushed aside—the inflections of Harvard and The 
University of Chicago supplanting those of South Boston 
and the South Side of Chicago. 

But—not so remarkably—they are trying to do the same 
things the old timers did less scientifically and more 
intuitively. They are raising money, categorizing voters, 
identifying voter opinions, and determining voter prefer¬ 
ences: the things all campaigners have to do in all elections 
regardless of the methods used. 



“It threw up when I programmed it to select the most honest 

political candidate.” ^CREATIVE COMPUTING 


Fund Raising 

Fund Raising: "Money is the mother's milk of politics,” 
once observed Jess Unruh, the one-time Big Daddy of 
California politics. And he was right. You can't run a 
political campaign without money any more than you can 
run an automobile without gasoline. In the old days you sent 
a friendly lawyer down to the local courthouse to corner 
other sympathetic members of the legal fraternity into sign¬ 
ing $50 and $100 checks. Or you rounded up the fat cats for 
whom you either have done or might do a favor; they usually 
came through. 

Today a campaigner, while he probably will not reject the 
first of these alternatives, simply doesn't have the second 
option because of campaign financing reform laws. Instead 
he will probably go to a direct response fund raising firm. 

These firms stockpile computer files of past and potential 
contributers to campaigns. A candidate with a large en¬ 
vironmental point to make will seek a fund raiser who has 
access to membership lists of the Sierra Club, Friends of the 
Earth and similar organizations. Candidates with heavy 
liberal credentials will use one who hasthe ADAand ACLU 
membership lists. 


The variations within this arrangement are virtually 
unlimited. Some fund raisers—like Richard A. Viguerie, 
Inc., of Washington, who works only for extremely con¬ 
servative candidates—are ideological. Others will accept 
offers from candidates within a wide range of the political 
spectrum, while reserving the right to reject the few candi¬ 
dates with whom they disagree entirely. 

Some lists are finely honed compilations of names of 
those who have already contributed to the candidate (or 
those like him). Others are less selectively compiled, 
including people who are likely to contribute to a campaign 
of a particular stripe. Still others are even more inclusive, 
containing names of those who might contribute. Cost, on a 
per name basis, often depends upon the degree of 
selectivity. 

Naturally, returns on more generalized lists are lower. 
Prospecting from such lists will bring in contributions from 
anywhere between 1 and 3 percent of those solicited. Such 
an endeavor simply isn't cost effective unless letters are 
printed (rather than computerized), in which case a run of 
labels is all a finance committee needs. 

A purged or specialized list—perhaps consisting of con¬ 
tributors from the candidate's previous campaigns or from 
respondents to a prospecting mailing—deserves more 

* Articles by Mr. Acocella have appeared in Campaign Insight, Model’s Circle, 
New York Affairs, Fodor’s Travel Guides, and five books on sports. 

CREATIVE COMPUTING 


54 


Governor George Wallace of 
Alabama has virtually perfected this 
technique, raising millions of dollars 
in small contributions from "just 
folks" over the years. 


T 
























The computer letter, asking for im¬ 
mediate and future contributions, 
had four blank checks, a mailing 
label addressed to the recipient, and 
an application for a button identify¬ 
ing the wearer as an early McGovern 
supporter. 


particular attention. Such donor lists can bring a response 
from between 10 and 25 percent of the addressees. 
Governor George Wallace of Alabama has virtually 
perfected this technique, raising millions of dollars in small 
contributions from "just folks" over the years. 

But no major fund raising effort can be a folksy, back¬ 
room operation. It must be highly sophisticated, with 
computerized letters—perhaps mentioning the recipient by 
name in the body of the letter, perhaps not—going to lists of 
special interest voters, who usually get a basic letter with 
variant paragraphs for different groups. Such an endeavor 
might also include an information storage system retain¬ 
ing the names of contributors and the amounts they con¬ 
tribute, and capable of purging those who prove unrespon¬ 
sive after a few tries. 

Perhaps the greatest computerized fund raising coup was 
the brainchild of Thomas L. Collins of the New York 
advertising firm of Rapp, Collins, Stone and Adler. During 
the 1972 presidential election Collins sent out a mailing on 
behalf of Senator George McGovern (for obvious reasons 
candidates with a strong ideological identification do best in 
this sort of drive) to a prime list of past and potential con¬ 
tributors at a cost of $25,000. The computer letter, asking 
for immediate and future contributions, had four blank 
checks, a mailing label addressed to the recipient, and an 
application for a button identifying the wearer as an early 
McGovern supporter. Americans, it seems, don't like to take 
something—not even a campaign button—for nothing, 
because 100,000 donors sent in $1 million in response to 
this mailing. 

Polling 

Polling: With enough money a campaign can go in any 
direction its directors choose; the problem is in defining the 
direction that will be most effective. The computer and its 
legitimate offspring, the poll, are there to help answer this 
all important preliminary question. 

The kinds of polls available are about as many as the 
number of campaigns in which they have been used. Most 
depend on random samples of 100 or more names, below 
which the data is most suitable, culled from census lists, the 
telephone book, random digit dialing, or from any pre¬ 
defined list. The sample is screened to weed out the non¬ 
citizen, the unregistered and the non-voter. From there the 
pollster will frame questions designed to tell his client what 
he wants or needs to know. A few examples should suffice: 

Asking preliminary demographic questions can yield a 
profile of the electorate's characteristics. 

Asking whether the respondent will vote in the forth¬ 
coming election can yield a maximum likely turnout. 

Collating the results of these two questions can yield a 
profile of likely voters, indicating not only how many people 
will vote but also what kind of people will vote. 

Asking the respondent's predisposition toward the candi¬ 
dates can yield a model of the undecided voters similar to 
the model for all probable voters. 

Richard M. Hochhauser, a former vice president of 
Cambridge-Plesser, a research opinion consulting firm, and 
now president of RMH Research, Inc., outlines the six basic 


kinds of political polls, any combination of which may be 
used in an individual campaign. 

1. An Issue Definition Poll seeks to ascertain what the 
electorate at large and/or some portion of it (the most likely 
voters, various age groups, various religions or ethnic 
groups, probable supporters or opponents, etc.) sees as the 
most serious problems facing the city, state or nation. The 
pollster can gather the necessary data either by asking 
relevant questions directly or by providing a list of issues 
and asking the respondent to rank them. 

2. A Bench Mark Poll, conducted with as much as a 
year's lead time, provides the information with which to 
screen the electorate, classify the voters demographically, 
develop a media profile (i.e., establish what the voters read 
and watch), determine the degree of the candidate's name 
recognition and the public's knowledge of him, evaluate the 
public's image and opinion of the candidate, establish the 
importance of the forthcoming election, and measure the 
depth of conviction of committed voters and the importance 
of party identification. With this information at hand a 
prospective candidate has the wherewithal to decide 
whether to go ahead with his campaign and, if so, what kind 
of pose to strike and what kind of campaign to run. 

3. A Tracking Poll updates the information in a bench 
mark poll sometime before election day. Since much of the 
cost of polling is devoured by actual interviewing time, the 
use of the same sample as in the bench mark poll can save a 
campaign considerable money. 

4. A Target Voter Survey selects a sample of voters 
whom the campaign wishes especially to reach. It may try to 
measure penetration into the opposition's supporters, or 
the degree of the campaign's effect on undecided voters or 
on some other subdivision of the total electorate. 

5. There aretwokindsof Communications Surveys. One, 
the Theme Effectiveness Survey, is used to determine the 
kinds of ads a campaign should use. There may be three 
possible ways of reelecting an aging incumbent, three 
thematic hooks on which to hang the entire campaign: 
"Senator Smith, a man of experience and accomplish¬ 
ment," "Senator Smith's stand on the issues," or "Youth 
can't keep up with the activities of Senator Smith." A theme 
effectiveness survey can help decide which would be most 
persuasive. The other, an Ad Effectiveness Survey, is used 
to determine the ability of specific ads, already released, to 
accomplish their desired effect. Obviously ads may have 
different impacts on different elements in a constituency, 
so a communications survey employs various screening 
questions to measure an ad's effectiveness with specific 
groups of voters. Furthermore, voters in different media 
markets may react differently. To take these differences into 
account in statewide or nationwide elections, the same poll 
is often conducted separately in each relevant media 
market. (Earlier polls may also be duplicated in as many 
media markets as funds allow.) 

6. The last type of poll is the one candidates, campaign 
managers, and consultants like to conduct least, the Post 
Mortem Survey, which seeks to discover why the candi¬ 
date lost. Actually, such polls are not always lamentable 
events. Often they are a part of the process of planning for 
ultimate victory, a process which sometimes extends over 
more than one term. 

Voter Identification 

Voter Identification: Hochhauser and those like him deal 
primarily with categories of voters, generalizations ex¬ 
trapolated from interviews with individuals. But there is 
another way of looking at voters, other categories of voters 
with which candidates and campaign managers must deal. 
These classifications define voters in a way that allows 
dealing with them specifically and individually rather than 
generally. 

One such division is party registration, which is part of 
the public record and readily available at any Board of 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


55 








John Goodfriend, a 36 year old 
political consultant from New York, 
has developed an ethnication pro¬ 
gram that can identify seven ethnic 
groups with 90 percent accuracy 
and 90 percent completeness. 


Election. Obviously in a restricted party primary this 
information is a sine qua non. 

A similar category that has come increasingly under the 
umbrella of the computer specialists is ethnic identification. 
Again, what they do is nothing so very new. The old ward 
leader knew the boundaries of the local Italian neighbor¬ 
hood; it was his job to know, and, if he didn't, there might be 
a new ward leader next time around. Also, a politician, 
recognizing the solidarity and common interests and 
aspirations of the Irish or Scandinavian voters in his con¬ 
stituency, would make special appeals to each of these 
groups by whatever means were available to him. 

To a great extent the melting pot effect has blurred the 
lines of many ethnic neighborhoods. This is much less true 
of ethnic identity however. The geographic dispersion of 
people with common backgrounds and common concerns 
has made the ethnic scan a necessity in many urban (and 
even suburban) electorates. The fact that such groups also 
have surnames with common characteristics has made it 
possible. 

John Goodfriend, a 36 year old political consultant from 
New York, has developed an ethnication program that can 
identify seven ethnic groups with 90 percent accuracy and 
90 percent completeness. (His program is flexible enough to 
approach 100 percent in either field at some small sacrifice 
to the other.) His lists of names come from library sources, 
ethnic club membership lists, church lists, foreign and local 
telephone books and acknowledged experts. 

Goodfriend's first approach was a simple name match, 
but this proved not effective enough. Today he employs 300 
tables, based on a first name-last name, prefix-suffix 
analyses to sort out the seven ethnic groups. 

The uses of such a list are as various as politics itself. An 
endorsing letter from a respected member of the ethnic 
group, a specialized mailing in the ethnic group's old world 
language, a move to strengthen organizational efforts 
among the candidate's co-ethnics: all these are 
possibilities. 

But there are subtler applications as well. Working jointly 
with Steve Balber at Datatab, Inc., Goodfriend has also 
developed a process for compiling a prime voter list, that is, 
a list of voters who, based upon past turnout are most likely 
to vote in a given election. This gives a candidate and his 
managers access to the best, say, 100,000 voters at whom 
to direct his campaign. 

Frequency is a variable factor here. A campaign may want 
only the names of those who have voted in all of the last four 
similar elections or it may want the names of those who 
have voted in any of the last four elections. The direction of 
the campaign's proposed attack will determine the exact 
definition of the list. 

The fact is that some ethnic groups have better voting 
records than others. For instance, Jewish voters in New 
York City are about 20 percent of the overall electorate but 
constitute as much as 40 percent of the turnout in 
Democratic primaries. Accordingly, combining the two 
processes—ethnication and prime voter listing—can give a 
campaign manager the narrowest target group whose votes 
will win his election for him. 


Canvassing 

Canvassing: All political campaigns seek to accomplish 
three things: raise money, make noise to convince 
undecided voters, and organize an effective drive to 
guarantee that favorable voters get to the polls on election 
day. 

The last of these, predicated on the assumption that it is 
easier to win by getting out your vote than by changing the 
minds of the other guy's votes, is as old as partisan politics. 
As far back as the presidential election of 1800 Aaron Burr 
organized a card file of every voter in New York City, listing 
his political leanings and what it would take to get him to the 
polls. That election lasted four days with Burr and his 
cohorts running from poll to poll to draw out the voters pre¬ 
disposed toward the Jefferson-Burr ticket. 

Burr carried New York, became vice-president, and went 
on to infamy. So did his system. 

It was an historically fitting fate. Burr's associates during 
those four days 175 years ago were the beginnings of 
Tammany Hall, from whose domain the Burr system spread 
to oil other political machines. In time the file cards took on 
added information such as when a Thanksgiving turkey was 
delivered, when a voter's nephew was given a position on 
the cops, etc. 

Times change, but there is little that is new under the sun. 
The New Politics of the 1960's reinvented the Burr system, 
using all manner of hardware. The size and complexity of 
modern America had made its demands again. 




56 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 























































With a computer file of every voter in an entire 
constituency, or in a specific target group, along with his 
address and telephone number, a campaign can canvass 
voters to determine their likelihood of voting favorably. The 
results can be fed into the computer file at regular intervals 
so that on election day volunteers, operating from a print 
out of names and addresses can "pull" favorable voters. 

Politicians have always rated the electorate in this way, 
but in the past non-machine politicians have had to rely on 
their general judgments of districts. If a campaign manager 
assumed that a given district will, for whatever reason, vote 
overwhelmingly in favor of his candidate, the natural reac¬ 
tion was to concentrate organizational efforts in that dis¬ 
trict. 

Computerization makes it possible to treat each voter and 
his voting preference individually, as part of what amounts 
to a universal poll. 

And that isn't all. A good program can provide lists of 
undecided voters whom the campaign's noise might affect, 
analyses of the electorate and its component parts to 
facilitate decision making, a basic family mailing list for 
printing labels, records of identifying characteristics such 
as profession and type of residence, geographic sorts for 
specialized mailings, etc. The only limitations to the 
information that can be stored and retrieved with speed and 
ease are the number of characters on the computer card 
and what you intend to do with the file. 

Naturally, the larger the campaign, the more unwieldy a 
computerized canvassing operation becomes, but cam¬ 
paign managers often treat anything larger than a Con¬ 
gressional district in semi-autonomous segments. Entire 
states have been canvassed in this way. 

In effect, then, computers have insinuated themselves 
into modern politics as much as they have into every other 
phase of life in the 1970's, from how we receive our pay 
checks to how we spend it and everything in between. And 
for the same reasons. It's simply easier and faster to deal by 
computer with the numbers and complexities of what has in 
the past been done manually. The political computer 
specialist takes what the politician has always done and 
does it more quickly and more accurately to allow campaign 
planners and directors to maximize tlje impact of the time, 
money, and resources at their availability. 



"Before attempting to determine the country's next 
president, I suggest you try something comparatively 
simple, like who the class president will be!" 


An Analytic Examination of 
Creative Computing 

by David H. Ahl y 

Introduction 

Creative Computing has an untarnished reputation as an im¬ 
partial journal concerned with the most fundamental issues of 
computers in education and one which welcomes contribu¬ 
tions from all comers. Yet it appears that Creative Computing is 
so concerned with its galactic responsibilities that it has over¬ 
looked the constituent elements of the words between its 
covers. Without these words, Creative Computing readers are 
speechless. Words become part of phrases, phrases become 
part of sentences, sentences become part of articles, and so on. 

Therefore, it is imperative to examine the content of the 
words in Creative Computing. Creative can not rest on its 
laurels but must be subject to analytic examination to prevent 
any distorting biases from unwittingly creeping by the editors. 

Method 

A random sample of words was chosen from a random 
sample of issues of Creative Computing. The letters in each 
word were classified according to an ancient Indo-European 
System. For example, an “a” in any given word was tallied under 
the column heading “a,” whereas a “b” was tallied under the 
heading “b,” etc. In a sample of 1709 words, the following dis¬ 
tribution was obtained: 


a 

1723 

h 

283 

o 

617 

V 

38 

b 

339 

i 

1605 

P 

271 

w 

172 

c 

395 

j 

62 

q 

49 

X 

12 

d 

549 

k 

216 

r 

445 

y 

228 

e 

.2283 

1 

327 

s 

438 

z 

6 

f 

117 

m 

172 

X 

382 



9 

161 

n 

494 

u 

1173 




Results 

Mean usage of letters varies from 23.724% for the letter “e” to 
.069% of “z.” This is attributable in some degree to the corollary 
finding that Creative Computing authors tend, all other things 
being equal, to prefer more words containing “e’s” than “z’s.” 
More research on this point is urgently needed to uncover the 
reasons for this preference. The magnitude of this difference, 
significant beyond the .00001 level of confidence, raises the 
unwelcome specter of some underlying literary bias that can no 
longer remain unnoticed by Creative Computing editors. 

From a correlation matrix, other biases of Creative 
Computing authors were uncovered. For example, of the 49 
instances of a Creative Computing author employing the letter 
“q” he invariably prefers to follow it with a “u.” Also, such letters 
as “i,” “b,” and “m” are frequently used consecutively. 
However, we seldom find the sequence “x,” “d,” and “s.” Why 
should such glaring biases exist in a journal noted for its fair¬ 
ness and neutrality? 

Conclusion 

You, the readers of Creative Computing , must demand from 
the contributors and editors a more uniform distribution of the 
most basic elements of the words used in Creative Computing 
which so profoundly influence its entire content and outlook. 
Use your computers to keep track issue by issue of whether a 
more homogeneous distribution is being obtained. Cojxr sqally 
kibmz! 


(Portions of the above article were plagiarized from an article in The Journal of 
Irreproducible Results by Alvin Howard, PH.D. My apologies. —DHA) 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


57 














NEVER TALK TO COMPUTERS 

THAT ARE STRANGE by Carol Cail 



58 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 






























































































































































































































































































































































“Artificial intelligence. It’s a new 
science between psychology and 
computer programming. Over¬ 
simplified, it’s teaching computers 
to talk-” 


“When I was doing Professor Willis just now, he kept 
sneezing. So I asks, ‘Have you got hay fever?’ and he says, ‘No, 
it’s an old war wound.’ Did you ever hear of a wound that would 
make you sneeze years after? Was it his nose or what?” 

Dr. Sills turned a page of the report he was trying to read and 
murmured, “It was probably the dust you were raising, Malvin. 
He was kidding you.” 

“Oh, sure, I see. I should of got it.” Malvin ran a gray rag 
along the blackboard tray and snapped it behind his back, 
chuckling belatedly. 

Dr. Sills sighed and shielded his eyes with long-fingered 
hands, the report open between his elbows on the desk. He 
read two lines. 

“My dad was wounded in World War I.” Malvin leaned on 
the desk flat palmed, his face low enough to look under the 
doctor’s laced fingers. “Maybe that’s why he’s such a grouch. 
His hip hurts.” 

Sills nodded, staring at the page. 

“He walks like Frankenstein. Course, he doesn’t hold his 
arms out stiff in front.” 

“Malvin, I’m sorry, but I really must study now. Could you 
talk to me some other time?” 

“Oh, sure. I’ll get the cleaning done faster if I keep my yap 
shut, too.” He grabbed up a push broom and began plowing the 
tiny office with it. 

The silence wasn’t helping Sills any. It was like waiting for a 
shoe to drop, wondering how long Malvin could keep his 
thoughts to himself. Ronald Sills had been at the university six 
weeks and had managed to be working elsewhere in the build¬ 
ing at least half of the evenings Malvin was rearranging the dust 
in his closet of an office. Yet he already krtew the custodian’s 
opinions on everything from apples to zoos and back through 
the alphabet again. Malvin Denwald would rather talk than 
drink, which is the only activity Sills could think of that Malvin 
couldn’t do and talk at the same time. 

Though he’d read the same sentence three times, Sills kept 
his eyes down in possum absorption; looking up was a certain 
invitation to conversation. 

Of course, Malvin was lonely. One didn’t have to be a 
psychologist, which Dr. Sills was, to know that. Malvin’s deficits 
included a face like a ventriloquist’s dummy, all lower lip and 
protruding eyes. He was approaching middle age, with no 
chance of a better job and no family but an unaffectionate semi¬ 
invalid father. The shortage of intelligence that was in large part 
responsible for all this also helped him to accept it with good 
humor. His one real pleasure, then, was having the ear of fine, 
important men like Dr. Sills. 

Who made the mistake of sneezing. Malvin laughed and, the 
dam of silence broken, words began to pour. Sills shut the 
report folder and ripped a tissue from the box to blow his nose. 

“Which war did you get your wound, hah?” Malvin not only 
liked talking, he preferred dialogues. “No kidding, Doc. Were 
you in the army?” 

“Korea.” 

“Oh, come on. Now I know you’re pulling my leg. You’re too 
young to been in that one. More likely Viet Nam. Right?” 

“I’m older than I look. It really was Korea.” 

“Well, I be. You sure do look young. Maybe it’s cause you’re 
slight built. Kept your boyish figure, hah? Then you got lots of 
blonde hair and a good tan and all. You ought to grow a beard or 


a mustache. That’d make you look older. Everybody else 
around here is hairy. Some of the ladies, even! Ha, ha, ha.” 

Sills began building an armload of books for exodus to the 
library. Malvin began polishing the desk top with his dusty rag. 

“You through reading your folder here? ‘Human Reaction 
and Interaction in AI Experimentation.’ Did I call all those big 
words right? It sure doesn’t sound like very exciting reading. 
What does the AI stand for, anyway?” 

“Artificial intelligence. It’s a new science between psy¬ 
chology and computer programming. Oversimplified, it’s teach¬ 
ing computers to talk—” Here the rote recitation broke off, and 
Dr. Sills almost added, “Eureka!” 

Instead, he dropped the books onto the desk, fished a key 
ring from his pants pocket, and, clasping Malvin by the elbow to 
steer him into the hall, announced, “I have something I want to 
show you.” 

Sills unlocked the door directly across from his office, 
revealing another small room stuffed with equipment: a type- 
writer-like console, a file cabinet with a telephone on top, a 
bookshelf loaded with manuals and papers, a fat swivel chair. 

“Have you been in here, Malvin?” 

“Sometimes to sweep the floor anckempty the wastecan. I 
never touch anything else, so I can’t get blamed for anything.” 

“Yes. This is an expensive terminal setup. This Teletype 
connects with the computer over in the Science Center. Just 
this console you see here costs us $3,000 a year rental from the 
manufacturer.” 

Malvin made the expected noises of wonderment. “What do 
you do with it that makes it worth all that much?” 

“It’s an experimental tool. I’m an artificial intelligence re¬ 
searcher—the only one here so far—and I have a grant to teach 
language to the computer.” 

Malvin struggled to see the desirability of that. “You mean 
English?” 

“Well, yes, but it could be programmed for any language. 
Which one isn’t the point. Communication is the point.” 

Malvin nodded, not seeing. 

“Do you know what psychotherapy is, Malvin?” 

He hadn’t been the sanitary engineer in the psychology 
building for fourteen years for nothing. “It’s sort of like a 
psychiatrist.” 

“That’s right. The patient talks about his problems to a 
counselor trained to listen and be sympathetic. Just having 
someone listening to him is a tremendous help to the troubled 
person.” 

“Yeah, that’s the truth. I even talk to myself sometimes, and 
I listen to me, too. Ha, ha, ha. It beats a goldfish.” 

Sills did not follow up the last remark. He’d sat down at the 
console, flipped a switch, and dialed some numbers on the 
phone. The awakened terminal hummed. It teletyped, 
“NAME?” 

Sills typed, “Malvin Denwald.” 

“Hey, now,” Malvin said, taking a step backwards. 

“I’m going to let you talk to Art. How old are you?” Sills 
asked as the computer typed the question. 

“Who’s Art?” Malvin watched Sills poke a four and a zero. 
“I’m thirty-nine, Who’s Art?” 

“Art is short for artificial intelligence, which is what the 
computer has.” 

“You mean you want me to talk to a machine?” Malvin 
shook his hands and head sideways. “I’m not mechanical 
minded. I don’t even want an electric vacuum cleaner.” 

“You can read and write, can’t you?” Sills asked, typing 
“male” in answer to the last computer question. 

“Course, but—” 

“That’s all you have to do. Read the question or remark the 
computer makes on this printout, and type whatever you want 
to say to the computer on these keys.” 

Sills stood and encouraged Malvin into the chair with a firm 
arm around his back. They watched the computer type, “DO 
YOU HAVE A PROBLEM WITH DRUGS?” Malvin gave the 
console an outraged frown. 


SEP-OCT 1976 


59 










“You mean you want me to talk to 
a machine?” Malvin shook his hands 
and head sideways. “I’m not 
mechanical minded. 1 don’t even 
want an electric vacuum cleaner.” 


“Type ‘n-o,’” Sills advised. 

Malvin touched the two keys with reluctance. 

“DO YOU HAVE A PROBLEM OF A SEXUAL 
NATURE?” 

This time Malvin’s ears lit red and he tried to escape, but Sills 
held his shoulder with one hand while leaning to type “no” with 
the other. 

“DO YOU HAVE A PROBLEM WITH ONE OR BOTH OF 
YOUR PARENTS?” 

Malvin stopped resisting and studied the keyboard. He 
typed back, one*fingered, “mother dead dad yes.” 

The computer relayed, “TELL ME MORE ABOUT YOUR 
FATHER.” 

A grin grew on Malvin’s face. “Why, Doc, you’re doing a 
deluxe job learning this Art to hold a conversation. Next thing 
you’ll be having him watch TV with you.” 

“You go ahead and use the computer. I’ll be in my office.” 

Malvin nodded, studying the keyboard. “What if I can’t spell 
something?” 

“Just do the best you can putting it down like it sounds. Art 
can usually figure out your meaning.” 

“This is sure some machine,” Malvin marveled. He jumped 
as the teletype began a message. 

“ARE YOU HAVING TROUBLE GETTING STARTED?” 

“You’re an impatient cuss. Just give me time,” Malvin 
muttered. 

Sills left him unburdening himself via hunt and peck. 

Sills settled back with his feet on the desk and began a care¬ 
ful, uninterrupted reading of the AI report. He was unbothered 
by the constant chatter of the teletype across the hall. It had a 
rain on the roof tempo, a slow steady dripping that was Malvin, 
interspersed by bursts of hail, Art. 

The precipitation was still in progress thirty minutes later 
when Sills closed the folder, disengaged his ankles from the 
desk, and crossed the hall. Malvin glanced up without recogni¬ 
tion, concentrating on a response to Art. 

“I hate to interrupt, Malvin, but we’d better call it an eve¬ 
ning.” 

Malvin wakened from the spell. 

“Gosh, yes. I gotta finish this floor tonight. Thanks a million 
for letting me try this thing.” 

“Would you like to do it again?” 

“Could I? Sure.” 

“If you hurry with, your work, you’d have time to use the 
computer the two nights a week you’re cleaning my office. I’ll 
put you down as a subject helping me in my experimental 
work.” 

“Now wait. I don’t want to get you in trouble.” 

“No, your talking with Art will legitimately help me see what 
kinds of programming he needs. I have several students coming 
in during the day to do the same thing.” 

“Wait’ll I tell my dad I’m helping a professor with some re¬ 
search, just like a regular student.” 

“One thing; be sure to save the printouts so I can prove to 
the backers that I’m earning the grant money.” 

The smile died on Malvin’s wide mouth. “Oh. Well, I better 
not say anything too personal had I? You really have to do 
that?” 

“You say anything you want, Malvin. It’s all confidential. No 
one will read the printouts.” 

“Except you.” 



“I would never reveal anything you want kept private. 
Besides, you know how busy I always am. I may not have time to 
read all the data you and Art discuss.” 

“Yeah, well, I guess it’s okay,” Malvin said with such 
reluctance that, the minute he was around the hall corner, Dr. 
Sills extracted the printout and, with more than professional 
curiosity, began to scan it. 

The entire time had been spent on the subject of Denwald, 
Senior. The image of an ailing, cantankerous octogenarian 
emerged. The computer’s comments were easy to separate 
from Malvin’s, not only because they were shorter, but because 
they were capitalized: 

GOOD. WE ARE LISTENING TO YOU TELL ABOUT 
YOUR ANGER. 

we argue all the time, i dont want to fight with him but it 
always ends up in a fight, sometimes i feel 
PLEASE GO ON. 

i never told this to anybody before, i think i hate my dad. i 
know its wicked but i cant help it. 

YOU FEEL VERY GUILTY ABOUT THIS. 

i never told anybody, sometimes i actshally want to hit him. 
kill him even, its awful, i dream about it. 

WHAT DOES YOUR DREAMING ABOUT THIS MEAN 
TO YOU? 

howd you like to dream you was killing somebody? 

WE WERE DISCUSSING YOU, NOT ME. 

Sills shook his head. If Malvin only knew how sadly common 
his problem was, he needn’t be embarrassed about Sills read¬ 
ing the printout. 

Malvin’s second chance at the computer, on Thursday, 
yielded a rehash of the Monday session’s dialogue. Sills was 
folding the printout for filing when a number caught his eye, and 
he examined an exchange he’d skipped previously: 

hes a miser, hes got 60,000 dollars in the bank but we live like 
we was one step from the poor house, we live in a great big 
manshun thats falling down around our ears, we eat beans, he 
sleeps in a attic room on the third floor because he says heat 
rises, he wont even let me spend my own money, id get a guitar. 
WHY DO YOU WANT A GUITAR? 

(Here Sills made a mental note that Art needed program¬ 
ming on how to keep to the point. But Malvin’s next remarks 
showed that he’d ignored the proffered sidetrack.) 

so when im mad at him i wish he was dead and then i wouldnt 
have to fight with him anymore and all that money would be 
mine and i wouldnt let it rot in that bank but id spend some of it. 
then when im not mad at him i feel awful about what i been think¬ 
ing. 

Dr. Sills carefully folded the printout, envisioning a suddenly 
wealthy Malvin. Sills involuntarily touched his jacket pocket 
containing the Dean’s letter, the one warning that “... funds for 
computer facilities will be drastically reduced in next semester’s 
budget, and when your grant expires ....” 

The vision of Malvin with money dissolved into a vision of 
Dr. Ronald Sills with money. First he’d set up a private research 
laboratory. He’d make himself a reputation with significant 
applications of AI. He’d build an adjoining clinic, hire a 


60 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 

















now listen you just watch your 
mouth buddy i dont have to take any 
smart stuff from a machine. 


competent staff. He’d be written up in journals, invited to lec¬ 
ture around the country, consulted by learned psychologists all 
over the world. The good he could do if only he had the capital 
to set matters in motion! 

Sills sat down and folded his arms, contemplating the 
console that existed for the next summons and command. Art 
could solve astronomical equations, play chess, diagnose an ill¬ 
ness, write a sonnet. He could surely be schooled in the tech¬ 
niques of fund raising. 

Four evenings later, Malvin’s third session with the com¬ 
puter began with an exchange about the weather, television, 
and football. Then Malvin typed, “my dad likes the rams,” and 
Art seized the opportunity to reconsider familiar grievances: 

HAVE YOU BEEN FIGHTING WITH YOUR FATHER 
THIS WEEK? 

oh sure that same old story. 

TELL ME ABOUT IT. 

i was two minutes late getting home from work friday and he 
said i was with a shameless wrench while he was working his feet 
to the bone sniffing termites. 

I BEG YOUR PARDON? 

he is always saying im with a girl, i don’t know any girls, and 
hes always looking for termites with his spray can. he thinks he 
can wipe them all out that way and save the price of a 
exterminator. 

DO YOU STILL FEEL YOU WANT TO KILL YOUR 
FATHER SOMETIMES? 

i try not to think about it. lets dont talk about it. seen any 
good movies lately ha ha. 

WHY DON’T YOU? 
why dont i what. 

WHY DONT YOU KILL YOUR FATHER? 
now listen you just watch your mouth buddy i dont have to 
take any smart stuff from a machine. 

YOU WOULD BE DOING HIM A FAVOR. HE IS VERY 
OLD AND IN CONSTANT PAIN. HE HAS NOTHING TO 
LIVE FOR AND WOULD WELCOME THE RESTFULNESS 
OF DEATH. 

i am not going to sit here and 
HAVE YOU EVER HEARD OF EUTHANASIA? 
i think its in the eastern hemisfere. i got work to do 
IT IS MERCY KILLING. MORE AND MORE DOCTORS, 
LAWYERS, AND OTHER PROFESSIONALS ARE ACCEPT¬ 
ING IT AS THE COMPASSIONATE WAY TO HELP 
PEOPLE LIKE YOUR FATHER. ' 

help him by knocking him off??? 

IF YOU WERE OLD AND HOPELESSLY ILL, 
WOULDNT YOU WISH YOU WERE DEAD? DO UNTO 
OTHERS. DONT BE SELFISH. 

just suppose i did that for him. the police wouldn’t see it was 
a nice thing to do. is it selfish to want to stay out of jail? 

YOU CAN MAKE THE DEATH LOOK ACCIDENTAL. IT 
WOULD BE EASY. 

yeah i suppose you got it all planned knowitall. 

YOU SAID YOUR FATHER SLEEPS ON THE TOP 
FLOOR OF YOUR HOUSE. ARE THERE A NUMBER OF 
STAIR STEPS TO HIS ROOM AND ARE THEY STEEP? 

yes if you must know, they go straight up from the second 
floor with no landing to rest on so he sometimes sits on a step to 
catch his breath. 

GOOD. ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS GIVE HIM A HELP¬ 
ING HAND IN THE MIDDLE OF HIS CHEST WHEN HE 
GETS TO THE TOP. WHO WOULD DOUBT YOU THAT 
HE HAD A DIZZY SPELL AND FELL? 

SEP-OCT 1 976 


you make it sound easy all right but here you are safe in yoqr 
office the whole time. 

MALVIN, IT WOULD WORK. YOU WOULDNT BE 
UNDER HIS THUMB ANYMORE. YOU’D HAVE ALL THAT 
MONEY TO SPEND HOWEVER YOU WANT. YOU 
COULD BUY A GUITAR. 

or a juice harp? 

YOU THINK ABOUT IT. AND REMEMBER YOU’D BE 
DOING IT FOR YOUR FATHER. 

ill be seeing you art. 

YOU HAD BETTER TEAR UP THE LAST HALF OF THIS 
PRINTOUT. JUST GIVE DOCTOR SILLS THE PART 
BEFORE WE WERE DISCUSSING YOUR FATHER. 

good idea, i got to admit your thinking all the time. 
THANK YOU. 

Two nights later, Dr. Sills discovered, by way of the news¬ 
paper, that Edward Denwald had fallen down a flight of stairs to 
his apparently accidental death. Sills was surprised at how easy 
it had been. 

Malvin did not come to work Thursday. He appeared at the 
usual time Monday to clean Dr. Sills’ office. 

“I’m sorry to hear of your father’s death. You have my 
sympathy.” 

“They say it was for the best. His health and age and all.” 

“Yes, of course. He’s much better off now.” 

“I guess so. Listen, I won’t be using the computer tonight. 
I’m kind of behind on everything since I was off last week.” 

“No, Malvin. Don’t bother with my office tonight. It will do 
you good to talk to Art after this emotional experience.” 

For a moment Malvin scowled determination to stick by his 
duty. Then he sighed, “Well, I guess I am feeling sort of low. I 
don’t have a soul in the world now, not one relation, except a 
second cousin in Brooklyn that we don’t have anything to do 
with because she changed her name to Tootsie Rolls.” 

Sills resisted the temptation to ask anything. “You see, 
you’re beginning to feel like getting it all off your chest. Come 
on; I’ll unlock the computer room.” 

As Art and Malvin traded preliminary greetings, Sills exited, 
then leaned back around the doorjamb to say, “Malvin, I have to 
run down to the library for a few minutes. If you finish here 
before I get back, just switch off Art and pull the door shut.” 

Malvin ackowledged with a nod, considering how to 
respond to Art’s “HOW’S THE WORLD TREATING YOU 
THIS WEEK?” 

Forty minutes later, the librarian tapped Dr. Sills’ shoulder 
as he dozed over “Morphemes and Phonemes: Why Johnny 
Computer Can’t Read.” 

“Phone call for you, Dr. Sills.” 

He leaned against the checkout desk, smiling at the pretty 
student helper, and said, “Sills,” into the receiver tucked under 
his chin. 

“This is Malvin, and I’ve got a terrible confession to make.” 

“Now just take it easy. What—” 

“I killed him. I didn’t mean to but he made me so mad—” 

“Wait. Slow d-” 

“He was trying to blackmail me.” 

“Your father?” Sills asked, confused. 

“No, me. He said I pushed my dad down the stairs. You can 
ask the coroner if it wasn’t a heart attack. I was reading comic 
books. At Downy’s Drugs.” 

The assistant librarian was alarmed to observe Sills’ smile 
slide into a pained grimace. He was strangling the receiver with 
both hands as Malvin’s voice tumbled out. 

“Art kept saying I must bring him $20,000 one month from 
today and leave it in his printout file cabinet, or he’d tell the 
police I’d murdered my dad. So I lost my temper and I took the 
chair and I hit him a good lick. Well, more like three good licks.” 

Sills groaned, and the watching girl scurried to get help. 

“Dr. Sills, I don’t know how you’re going to explain it. I’m 
truly sorry. Art was mighty smart, but he just didn’t have a stitch 
of conscience.” 


END 






Some Thoughts 

John R. Lees, Jr. 

Associate Editor Creative Computing 
P. 0. Box 1543 Rolla, MO 65401 


I have been thinking quite a lot lately about People's 
Computer Company and Creative Computing , and what 
the existence of such publications means; about the 
explosion in computer, minicomputers, microprocessors 
and the “hobby” computer thing, and what such an 
explosion means; and about community communications 
and free schools and deschooling society and social change 
and the certain knowledge that world-wide disaster is 
imminent, and I am wondering if anyone has the faintest 
idea as to what is going on. 


I t 



We appear to be rushing head-on in this country (only in 
this country?) into something which I have started thinking 
of as the distributed-computer society. Two computers 
in every garage ... and in every washing machine, oven, 
radio, watch, telephone, doorbell, in short, a computer as 
an integral part of every technological device. The $10 
microprocessor is here and getting cheaper every day. 
Already everything is electronic, soon, everything will 
have a microprocessor snuggled somewhere within it. 

This worries me. 

To help you see why it worries me, let me rephrase a 
sentence from the above paragraph: Already our tools 
are all electronic, soon, our tools will all have micro¬ 
processors as integral parts. This is an important point 
because a microprocessor is an inherently incomprehensible 
device; a device which cannot be understood out of the 
context of an extremely complicated, elite technology. 

How does a microprocessor work? No, not what it does, 
but how it actually does it? Is that not really important? 
We are beginning to build things using tools which we do 
not really understand. Do we understand what we build 
with those tools? 


This article also appeared in People's Computer Company. (P.O. Box 310, 
Menlo Park, CA 94025) Mar/Apr 1976. 


We are touting the computer a6 the educational device to. 
end all educational devices, but we frequently stress the 
point, “Don’t worry about how it works, that isn’t 
important,” often adding, “I don’t really understand it 
myself.” I can’t help but think of what Ivan Illich says 
in Deschooling Society about the radio, how mass pro¬ 
duction techniques changed it from an educational source 
of parts and electronics knowledge into a disposable 
throwaway. With computer it’s worse; in many cases we 
don’t even understand the software. In many cases we 
are prohibited from understanding the software because 
it is critical or proprietary or necessary to “system 
security” or simply written in a half-assed way which makes 
it impossible to figure out. 

Some of us are thinking of basing various social revolutions 
around the “inexpensive” computer. Try comparing the 
price of an Altair against the world median income! And 
how secure is any revolution based on a black box, the 
production, the understanding, of which is not in the 
hands of the revolutionaries? (Seen any basement diffusion 
furnaces lately? Ion-Implantation in the bathroom?) Whose 
revolution is it, anyway? The people’s? Or the fraction 
of a fraction of a percent of the population who at 
least partially understands the technology involved? 

Think of the eliteness of even the readership of People's 
Computer Company and Creative Computing! Are we 
serious, or are we just playing with our fascinating new toy? 



IT1 assume that we think we are serious, because computers 
are transforming world technology. It’s hard to comprehend 
how omnipresent the influence of the computer has become. 
Environmental and social impact statements are not 
required on new technologies that bloom overnight and 
captivate all thinking in the wink of an eye. And that’s 
the way it happened! 

I entered college in 1971 and the hottest thing going was 
the Heathkit electronic calculator that would do four 
functions for only $130.00. It was fantastic! By the time 


62 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 




















I graduated the Altair was in production and the 8080 
had 78 instructions for $130.00. That is starkly 
unbelievable! Except that it happened and it’s still 
happening. I entered college from one culture and graduated 
into another .one. 1*11 have my master’s degree in one year 
and what will it be like then? Star Trek on every TV in 
the nation, probably. Is that the idea? 



The idea is for some people to make a lot of iponey and 
expand their industry and keep the GNP growing. That 
is the gut force behind the computer explosion, that 
and the fact that the computer is the advertiser’s dream 
come true. “Here is our universal do-all Take a close 
look at it. We guarantee that you can think of something 
to use it for! If you can’t, well, sorry, it looks like your 
business is obsolete.” The self-expanding product; the 
product which grabs you by the throat and says, “Thou 
shalt do it my way, or your investment is worthless. 

And by the way, Fd do it a lot better with another 32K.” 



To return to my main point, I guess what really bothers me 
is that we are beginning to base so much of our everyday 
world on technologies which are not intuitively under¬ 
standable. We no longer feel that it is necessary to under¬ 
stand ourtools. I beUeve that if we do not understand our 
tools, then we do not control our tools, our tools control 
us. The people who do understand our tools control us. 

If I am the end user of a computer statistical package, but 
I am not a programmer, then if someone changes the 
package I must change. If l am a programmer, but don't 
understand hardware, then if someone changes the machine 
I program for, I must change. Even if I understand all 
facets of the computer I use, from software to hardware, 

I am still in trouble, for if someone changes the design of 
an integrated circuit device such as a microprocessor or 
a memory chip, there's not a damn thing I can do about 
it except change to suit Them. 


All users of advanced technologies are subservient to 
the elite who understand and control those technologies. 

Even the elite represented by PCX and Creative are not 
very elite. How do People’s Consumer Company and 
Creative Consuming grab you? (Down, Dragon!, Down!) 
I’m not too taken with those names, but even though I am 
fairly knowledgeable about computers I realize that I am 
basically helpless. I am still only a user of someone else's 
technology. If things continue on in the same way they 
are going right now, I am not sure that I see the situation 
-getting any better. 



Aha! The way is clear for the usual Basic Question: Mu 
Things Go On This Way? No, I’m not denouncing com¬ 


puters or technology or capitalism or anything else. Per¬ 
haps there was only one way to reach this point in history, 
it makes little difference, we are here. The distributed- 
computer society is upon us. We know that computers are, 

" if nothing else, great toys and we have hopes that they 
can be much more. 

But must computers remain black boxes? Must computer, 
technology, itself, remain of no educational value? Must 
control of the use of computers for social change remain, 
ultimately, with others than those who are trying to bring 
about change? Must the public forever fall farther and 
farther behind in understanding the devices with which it 
is manipulated? 

Okay, I am but an egg, and all that, and I don’t have many 
answers, so I'm asking: Can we have an understandable 
computer technology? Is the way we are doing things 
now the only way to do them? Can we transform computers 
into tools which most people can understand and use? 

Can we have computers for people? Can we use computers 
to bring about useful social change? Can we reconcile 
personal computers in this country with the fact that much 
of the world population will starve to death by the end of 
this century of technological progress? Are we really 
doing something useful in terms of the future of this 
. planet, or are we really just playing games? 

Those are some pretty brutal questions, and to some degree 
I have been playing the devil’s advocate, but I really want 
to find some answers. So now that I've raised the points, 
and I’ll admit that some of the things I’ve said could use 
some expansion and clarification, let's have some discussion. 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


63 






















World Altair Computer Convention 




Don Alexander of Columbus, Ohio won a complete Altair 
floppy disc system in the Demonstration Contest with his 
computer controlled (Altair 8800 naturally) amateur radio 
station. 


Lou Fields, VP of the Southern Calif Computer Society, 
presents a trophy to Carl Helmers, editor of Byte, in 
recognition of his contribution to the home computer field. 



Ted Nelson interrupts Dave Ahl's presentation at the point 
he predicted that videodiscs will be the medium that will 
drag computers into the average home because of the 
immense, cheap storage capability of the disc. Nelson 
disagreed saying videodiscs are no more real than Phono 
Vision in 1947. 



Some of the 700 people who attended the First World Altair 
Computer Convention in Albuquerque, New Mexico 
March 26-28, 1976. 



Norm Tilbury and Barbara Solomon of 
the Daylight Savings Company kept 
track of visitors to their exhibit on-line at 
WACC. 

Photos by Andrea Lewis and Robert 
Prati, both of MITS. 



Ted Nelson said to WACC audience 
that hobby computing will remain a cult, 
a "minority hobby until the machines 
can be made much simpler." He thinks 
"the need is for canned systems or black 
boxes." 



Publisher turned peddler. This photo 
was taken during one of the brief lulls in 
activity around the Creative Computing 
table. 


64 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 







I 



THOTS^'d BOi U U£ 


t 



7££Y/P£PS// U/P£R£‘D \ [ /ft SPP£AD/A/G T//£ 

Y£ G£TAUT///)T HAIR- \ WORO A80urrA£NASTY 
SPRAY AMD D£OOOPAMT?\ PLUOPOCAR&OnS /N a 
--- \TP£S£ CMS ... Jj 




... t//£yPe pyoat/ms up ro r//£rop optpesky 

AMD £AT/A/G 7Y/£ 3PAl/£ /L/TTY_£ DZO/YS 
LAY£P T//AT PROTECTS US PROP TP£ 


VtrPAV/OLEr M£AA//£S/... 





SEP-OCT 1 976 


65 


















































































nee upon a time, long before they 
invented the ball point pen (even 
before they invented the pencil), 
teachers used to teach by lecturing 
to the students who memorized every 
word their teacher said. Memorizing 
was the only way to learn. 

One day a bright young man came up to his teacher 
and said: 

“Sir, I have invented a pencil.” 

“What is a pencil?” asked the Teacher. 

“It is a device to assist you in teaching and assist 
us in learning,” replied the Student. 

“What do I do with it? If I eat it will it help me 
memorize better? If my students eat it will it help 
them memorize better?” 

“No,” said the student. “If you use it and we use it 
we won’t have to memorize at all.” 

“What kind of teaching would that be, without lecturing 
and without memorizing? How will I know if my 
students are learning if they don’t memorize and 
recite for me?” 

“That’s easy,” replied the student. “You will ask them 
to write what they have learned.” 

“Write?” queried the Teacher. 

“Oh, that’s something they will have to learn to do 
before they can use the pencil.” 

“And how long does learning to write take?” 

“Perhaps a year.” 

“You mean to say that I will have to wait a whole year 
before students can use your new method for 
learning? Then they will come to class and write down 


what I say. What is the difference between that and 
memorizing right now, without learning to write?” 

“Well, for one thing, the slow students will be able to 
t keep up by reading the notes.” 

“Reading?” 

“Another skill they have to acquire.” 

“Notes?” 

“That you will prepare.” 

“You mean I have to do more work with your new 
method of learning? I like memorizing better. I still see 
no advantage.” 

“But sir, the advantages will present themselves once 
the system is in operation, because there will be so 
many things students and teachers will be able to do 
that they could not do before.” 

“You have to prove it to me before I will make any 
radical change like you suggest. Anyhow, haven’t we 
always learned by memorizing?” 

MORAL: Newton’s 2nd Law that a body at rest stays 
at rest unless acted upon by an outside 
force is not just a law of physics. 


This article is reprinted from the May, 1972, issue of Computer 
Mediamation. In the words of the newsletter’s editor, Dr. Sam 
Spero, "Computer Mediamation is an occasional publication of 
the Educational Media Center of Cuyahoga Community College, 
Cleveland, Ohio. Its purpose is to motivate faculty to examine the 
potential of computers in instruction. The newsletter explores all 
the ways that a computer can be used as a medium (“. . . means, 
agency or instrumentality . . .”) for implementing any or all facets 
of the instruction process.” 





TO en0t£S6Uf 
The RNSrfOe*. 

t& -jj- . ^s^er 

Appear^ i'm eflS'f-To-ftjflo 
L£D Display afr&r ftfeu j 
Seconds of c&LcuUtfitxjT.vne. 

Ut~ appft*;ect, ujiTK Case, pectaftjer 
ANd uignvcOoa 


66 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 





























Prejudice Analysis 


Richard Kahn 
Natick High School 

PREJUDICE ANALYSIS is a computer activity 
to show a person the extent of his racial prejudice 
as measured by an inventory developed by Dr. 
George S. Siegel, a psychiatrist at the Tufts Medical 
Center. The activity should also provoke thought 
about the definition of prejudice and the validity 
of this questionnaire. In addition, the activity 
illustrates the use of the computer in social science 
research for collecting and checking data and 
carrying out calculations. 

After the program is loaded, it will ask how 
prejudiced you think you are and then it will 
request responses to the accompanying list of 34 
questions. The program then calculates your degree 
of prejudice based on your responses to the 
questions. Answer each question according to the 
following 6-point scale: 

1. Strongly disagree 

2. Moderately disagree 

3. Slightly disagree 

4. Slightly agree 

5. Moderately agree 

6. Strongly agree 

After all of the individual responses are 
entered, the program summarizes the responses of 
the entire class and stars questions on which more 
than N% of the class answered in a racially 
prejudiced manner. The quantity N can be 
specified in Statement 362. 


The Questions 

1. Minority group neighbors would probably 
lower property values in this area. 

2. Blacks have long been denied many basic rights 
and privileges. 

3. In national emergencies, it is highly important 
to limit responsible government jobs to native. 
White, Christian Americans. 

4. Efforts to provide opportunities for Blacks to 
live where they want are going too slowly. 

5. Present treatment of conscientious objectors 
and draft evaders is too lenient. 

6. Manual labor and menial jobs seem to fit the 
Negro mentality and ability better than more 
skilled or responsible work. 

7. Too much of the tax dollar is spent supporting 
the poor. 

8. Our schools would be better with more 
minority groups represented. 

9. City riots are a threat to our suburban life. 

10. City rioters demonstrate that inferior groups, 
when they are given too much freedom and 
money, just misuse their privileges and create 
disturbances. 


Mark Gross 

Cambridge School of Weston 

11. It is possible that this neighborhood would 
deteriorate with open housing. 

12. Blacks are discriminated against. 

13. Welfare encourages illegitimacy. 

14. Busing children to achieve racial balance is 
desirable. 

15. Blacks may have a part to play in White 
civilization, but it is best to keep them in their 
own districts and schools and to prevent too 
much intermixing with Whites. 

16. It would be a mistake to have Blacks for 
foremen and leaders over Whites. 

17. This town government is doing too little to 
encourage integration. 

18. Fair and open housing will probably drive 
property values down in this neighborhood. 

19. Riots have brought about some long overdue 
action by city governments to help the Black 
community. 

20. It is possible that this neighborhood would 
deteriorate if minority group families were 
permitted into this area. 

21. If a Black family comes to live in this area, 
welfare families will soon follow. 

22. Black power movements can lead only to 
violence. 

23. More minority group families in this 
community would be desirable. 

24. Special government programs should be devised 
to make it easier for minority group families to 
live in this area. 

25. Blacks would solve many of their social 
problems by not being so irresponsible and 
lazy. 

26. Patriotism and loyalty are the first and most 
important requirements of a good citizen. 

27. There will always be wars because there will 
always be races who ruthlessly try to grab more 
than their share. 

28. Our neighborhood is better off without 
minority groups. 

29. Law and order must be established as the first 
order of business. 

30. The people who raise all the talk about putting 
Blacks on the same level as Whites and giving 
them the same privileges are mostly radical 
agitators trying to stir up conflicts. 

31. There is something inherently primitive and 
uncivilized in the Negro, as shown in his music 
and aggressiveness. 

32. Welfare, although imperfect, is a necessity for 
many. 

33. Open and fair housing can be achieved without 
government programs. 

34. My neighborhood is open to Negroes who care 
to come to live. 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


67 










1 REM ** WESTWOOD SURVEY. TO EASIC EY MARK GROSS. AUG 25/1970 ** 

2 DIM At 35) / C( 35) 

5 PRINT -*** TO OPERATOR- ENTER NO. OF SUBJECTS-; 

7 INPUT S8 

10 PRINT -BEFORE STARTING THIS TEST, YOU SHOULD HAVE A LIST- 
15 PRINT -OF THE QUESTIONS. IF YOU DON 'T, TYPE CTFL/ C AN D" 

20 PRINT -THE MACHINE WILL STOP. " 

25 PRINT 

30 PRINT -RATE YOURSELF. DO YOU REGARD YOURSELF AS: - 
35 PRINT -1> VERY PREJUDICED, 2> MODERATELY SO" 

40 PRINT -3> SLIGHTLY PREDJUDI CEE, OR 4> NOT AT ALL." 

45 PRINT -ANSWER-; 

50 INPUT SI 

60 PRINT "OK--NOV INDICATE YOUR AGREEMENT WITH THE STATEMENTS ON- 
65 PRINT -YOUR SHEET ACCORDING TO THE FOLLOWING SCALE:- 
70 PRINT -1-STRONGLY DISAGREE, 2-MO DERATELY DISAGREE, - 
72 PRINT "3-SLIGHTLY DISAGREE, 4-SLIGHTLY AGREE, - 
75 PRINT -5-MODERATELY AGREE, OF 6-STFONGLY AGREE" 

80 FOR X=1 TO 34 
85 print -#-;x; 

90 INPUT A(X) 

91 IF ACX) > 6 THEN 94 

92 IF A<X) < 1 THEN 94 

93 GOTO 95 

94 PRINT -ILLEGAL RESPONSE"\GOTO 85 

95 NEXT X 

100 LET A( 2)*7-A< 2) 

1 05 LET A(4) = 7-A(4) 

1 10 LET A(8)=7-A<8) 

115 LET A( 9 ) = 7-A( 9 ) 

120 LET AC 12)“7-AC12) 

125 LET AC14)=7-AC14) 

130 LET AC 17)=7-A(17) 

135 LET AC19)»7-AC19) 

140 LET AC 23)-7-AC 23) 

145 LET AC 24) = 7-AC 24) 

150 LET AC 32)= 7-AC 32) 

152 PRINT -YOU RATED YOURSELF AS "; 

155 IF S1 =* 1 THEN 190 
160 IF S 1 = 2 THEN 185 
165 IF S 1 = 3 THEN 180 
1 70PRINT -NOT- 
175 GO TO 195 ' 

180 PRINT -SLIGHTLY -; 

182 GO TO 195 

185 PRINT "MODERATELY •; 

187 GO TO 195 
190 PRINT "VERY "; 

195 PRINT "PREDJUDI CED. - 
200 IF C=1 THEN 245 

205 LET C=1 

206 PRINT -I RATE YOU AS 
210 FOR X=1 TO 34 

215 LET S3= S3+ACX) 

220 NEXT X 

225 IF S3<76 THEN 170 
230 IF S3< 1 19 THEN 180 
235 IF S3< 161 THEN 185 
240 GO TO 190 
245 LET C= 0 
250 LET S3* 0 
255 LET S9=S9+t 
260 FOR X*1 TO 34 
265 IF ACX)>3 THEN 275 
270 GO TO 28 0 
275 LET CCX)=C(X)+1 
280 NEXT X 

285 IF S9> = S8 THEN 305 
290 LET S3= 0 

295 PRINT --- 

300 GO TO 25 

305 PRINT -*** TO OPEPATOR-HERE IS THE TABULATION- 

306 READ T 

310 FOP X*1 TO 34 

315 PRINT -#-;X;- WAS ANSWERED IN A RACIST MANNER"; CCX); - TIMES"; 

320 IF CCX)>CT/I00)*S8 THEN 335 

325 PRINT 

330 GO TO 340 

335 PRINT "**" 

340 NEXT X 
345 PRINT 

350 PRINT •-** MEANS THAT THE 'QUESTION ' WAS ANSWERED IN A 'PACIST'- 

355 PRINT -MANNER EY OVER ";T;-% OF THE SUBJECTS" 

356 PRINT -DISCUSSION. ***- 

360 STOP 

361 REM ** STMNT 362 IS X OF 'RACIST ANS' FROM CLASS FOR DISCUSSION 

362 DATA 20 
365 END 


Humanize Your 
Primary Typewriter 

■ Kindergarten teacher Janet Carter 
of the Marlboro Village School (Mon¬ 
mouth Co.) makes excellent use of 
her primary typewriter by “Humaniz¬ 
ing” it. 

She recommends for those who do 
not have a machine, to order an extra 
long carriage so that all size paper 
can be used. She feels it is not neces¬ 
sary to teach typing but limits should 
be put on the typewriters use. 

Allowing students to hunt and peck 
for their name is one use while allow¬ 
ing children to type words they have 
just learned from reading a story is 
another. She feels this is an excellent 
reinforcement to the reading lesson. 

Another way she uses the typewrit¬ 
er is to have students relate how they 
feel about something and type their 
feeling. The stories can be bound in 
a simple book to be read and re-read 
at a later time. 

Students write a newspaper after 
they have several weeks of “Show 
and Tell” experience. This is used 
for reading readiness. Over a period 
of a few weeks, everyone has a 
chance to talk, to be listened to, and 
have their talk written down on the 
typewriter to be duplicated for every¬ 
one to enjoy. 



Reprinted with permission from NJEA 
Review, Oct 1974. 


Of course 

I know what’s going on... 
I Just don’t understand it! 


68 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 























The World of Series — 
Playoff That Is 


James Reagan 
Stevenson High School 
Sterling Heights, Mich. 

What Are Playoffs? 

Traditionally the professional sports of baseball, 
basketball, and hockey have held what are called 
championship playoffs to determine the particular 
sport league champion. Comparable playoff systems 
are used after the regular season ends by such pro¬ 
fessional sport organizations as Major League Base¬ 
ball, the National Football League, the National 
Hockey League, and the National and American 
Basketball Associations. An even number of teams 
qualify for the championship playoffs determined by 
their regular season record and/or by their compara¬ 
tive standing within a particular division of the 
league. 

The playoff setup may be illustrated by Major 
League Baseball. Each of the division winners quali¬ 
fies for the playoffs. The winners of the two Ameri¬ 
can League divisions, East and West, play each 
other in a best-of-five games series while the Na¬ 
tional League divisional winners play their best-of- 
five series. (In a best-of-five series the first team to 
win three games is the winner of the series.) The 
winner of the World Series is considered the best 
team in baseball. 

There has been a trend in the major professional 
sports to expand—add teams to the respective 
leagues. This has changed many previous playoff 
systems to include more teams qualifying for the 
championship playoffs. For example, the National 
Basketball Association now has a first round series 
in which there are two best-of-three series before 
the semi-final and final playoffs. 

Some of the criticism of professional sport ex¬ 
pansion is that the entire championship structure 
is designed to add revenue to the pockets of the 
team owners and the best team is not necessarily 
the one that wins. 

Let us investigate some of the questions and 
results of employing a championship playoff system. 

First Investigation 

If we consider that playoff series are a money 
generating activity, how much money can the com¬ 
peting teams, not necessarily the players, expect to 
earn? The earnings are reflected in the number of 
games that can be expected to be played. In a best- 
of-seven series, there could be four, five, six, or 
seven games played. Which number of games should 
we expect? 

Certainly games cannot or should not be fixed 
so that there can be more games in the series; that 
is both illegal and unethical. Just let things go 
naturally and see what happens. 

SEP-OCT 1976 



We can use the computer to simulate each game 
of the series and keep track of how many games it 
takes to win each of several series simulations. For 
each game we will presently assume each team is 
equally likely to win, just as flipping a coin is 
usually considered equally likely to be a head or a 
tail. When a team wins four games the series is 
over and we tally the number of games played in 
the series. If the series ends in four games, we in¬ 
crease the count for four game series by one; 
similarly, we add to the counts for series ending 
in five, six, or seven games. After a large number 
of playoff series simulations, perhaps a hundred, 
we will have some idea of the expected number of 
games for a best-of-seven game series. The follow¬ 
ing questions arise and can be answered from the 
simulations: 

1. Is a prediction of a “four game sweep” rea¬ 
sonable? 

2. Is a prediction that the series will go six or 
seven games really going out on a limb? 

3. How well do the results of the simulation 
agree with actual outcomes of Major League 
World Series or other best-of-seven champion¬ 
ship playoffs? 

Many preliminary playoffs are not best-of-seven. 
Some are best-of-five and some are best-of-three. 
How should the series results be expected to be 
distributed with these kinds of playoffs? 

We originally assumed that the probability that 
a team would win any game was 0.5; but, seldom 
are the two teams equally likely of winning a given 
game. There are many factors affecting the a priori 
probability of a team winning a game. Some of the 
factors are: 

1. The place where the game is played. Does the 
home team have the advantage? 


69 


T 








2. The season records of the teams. The team 
with the better season record may have a 
better than 0.5 probability of winning a game. 

3. The winner of the previous game. A psycho¬ 
logical advantage is usually associated with 
the team that has won the previous game. 

An investigation stating the probability influenc¬ 
ing factors and the simulation will lead to some in¬ 
teresting results. 

Second Investigation 

An equally important investigation is one which 
will help answer the question: “Just because Team A 
wins a series, does that mean that Team A is the 
better of the two teams?” Certainly if we agree to 
use the criterion that the winner is the better team 
the answer to the question is “Yes”. But, most 


sports fans have a preconceived idea of which team 
is the better of the two. Now I rephrase the ques¬ 
tion: “If Team A is better than Team B, what is the 
probability that Team A will win a best-of-seven 
series from Team B?” 

By Team A being better than Team B I mean 
that for any game that they play, the probability that 
Team A will win, P(A), is greater than the probability 
that Team B will win, P(B). If we first consider 
P(A) = 0.55, what is the probability that Team A 
will win the series? The question can be answered 
using various probabilities for Team A. 

Further, if Team A is better than Team B, what 
is the probability that Team A will win a best-of-five 
series? I recently heard a sportscaster say, “Any¬ 
thing can happen in a five game series.” Finally, 
what happens in a best-of-three series as in the 
NBA? 


How Many Ways Can You 
Make Change For A Dollar? 


by Brian Hess 

Even with all the nickels and dimes and pennies 
running around this country, somebody still always 
needs change for a dollar for this or that. Assuming 
that you carried around enough change, how many 
ways could you help out someone who needed the 
right change for some infernal vending machine? You 
can use half-dollars, quarters, dimes, nickels, or pen¬ 
nies to make the right change. For example, you 
could give him 1 half, 1 quarter, 1 dime, 2 nickels, 
and 5 pennies. Get it? 

There are a few different ways to solve the prob¬ 
lem. One is to break it down into smaller problems, 
easily solved (e.g., how many ways can you make 
change for a quarter?) and then combine the answers 
to get the “big” answer. Another mathematical meth¬ 
od would be to write out a series of equations relat¬ 
ing each piece of change to each other and the dollar 
and then solve them. Finally, you could do the prob¬ 
lem by exhaustion. 

Solving a problem by exhaustion means writing 
down all the answers until all the possibilities of 
solution are exhausted (or until you are exhausted, 
whichever comes first). Fortunately, you Creative 
Computing readers can exhaust a computer rather 
than yourselves. Write a program to figure out how 
many ways you can make change for a dollar. Print 
the ways as well as a final total. (WARNING: Print¬ 
ing takes time on a TTY—if you are in a hurry [or be¬ 
ing charged] don’t bother printing all the ways, just 
the final total.) 



Hints: 1) If you use loops, counting one by one, It 
will probably take close to 20 minutes to compute all 
of it (even without printing all the combinations). Do 
you have to index the “pennies-counter” by one? 
Once the half-dollar counter reaches 2, what happens 
to all the other nested coin-counters? What about 4 
quarters? Dimes? 

2) If your program doesn’t come out with well 
over 100 ways to make change for a dollar, it has 
something wrong with it. (I’m not going to tell you 
the exact answer—work it out for yourself!) 

3) Once you have gotten the answer, ask some 
friends to guess at what they think it is. You’ll hear 
some very interesting numbers. Use the computer to 
tabulate them, etc. 

4) Write some sort of applications changes for 
this program. Look at how the number of com¬ 
binations changes. For example, nobody uses half- 
dollars in vending machines, so restrict the number 
of halves to 1. Also, who wants more than 25 pen¬ 
nies? Only parking meters and gumball machines use 
them. Finally, include at least 1 dime in the change 
so that your changeless friend can make a phone 
call! 

Brian is a high school student in Western Springs, Illinois. 


70 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 











CREATIVE PROGRAMMING TECHNIQUES 


■ ■ ■ ■ 


In this regular column. Creative Computing will publish original 
programming techniques, hints, and tricks. We're not looking for material 
from textbooks, but we are seeking material from readers that has proved 
helpful and effective. Send contributions to Editor, Creative Computing. 
The techniques presented below are from the A dvisory Unit for Computer 
Based Education, Hertfordshire County Council, England. 


CONDITIONAL STATEMENTS 

It is probably a fair generalisation to say that 
the comparison statement in any high level 
language is one to be avoided wherever possible. It 
usually translates into a sequence of arithmetic 
operations followed by a comparison with zero, 
which is usually the basic comparison operation 
available in the machine code. 

As, contrariwise, the comparison instruction is 
fundamental to any serious programming, it is 
natural to look at some ways of using it as little as 
possible. We offer some general hints: 

In a language which allows compound 'logical' 
statements, such as FORTRAN, it is often wise to 
re-write such a statement using simpler statements, 
particularly where "OR" is being used. The follow¬ 
ing is probably transparent to readers without any 
knowledge of FORTRAN. 

Instead of: 

IF (COST.EQ.O.O .OR. TIME.LT.9.5 .OR. 

DAYS.GT.5.0) GO TO 9995 

it is better to write: 

IF (COST.EQ.O.O) GO TO 9995 

IF (TIME.LT.9.5) GO TO 9995 

IF (DAYS.GT.5.0) GO TO 9995 

and best to order these three conditional state¬ 
ments so that the one most likely to be satisfied is 
tried first. The philosophy behind this is clear; if 
the COST is zero, we do not need to try the other 
two conditionals, but it is often the case with some 
systems that the full logical value of the compound 
conditional statement will be computed before 
branching. 


THERE’S ALWAYS 
AN EASY SOLUTION 
TO EVERY PROBLEM 

NEAT . . . PLAUSIBLE . . . AND WRONG 


SEARCHING A LIST 

Another interesting technique is concerned 
with searching an unordered list for a particular 
entry. Imagine we have a list of names: 

GILLIAN, JOSEPHINE, CINDY, ANGELA, 
DAPHNE.. JEAN 

stored in the one-dimensional array A$(1), 

A$(2),., A$(n), and we wish to find out 

whether "PHOEBE" is one of the names on this 
list. An 'obvious' approach is contained in this 
program fragment: 

300 LET I =0 

310 LET I = 1+1 

320 IF l> N THEN 500 

330 IF A$ (I) = "PHOEBE" THEN 400 

340 GO TO 310 


400 PRINT "PHOEBE FOUND AS THE 
";I;"-TH NAME ON THE LIST" 


500 PRINT "NAME NOT FOUND ON LIST" 

The comparison at line 320 is necessary 
because we must detect the end of the list in the 
event of not finding "PHOEBE". 

However, if we adjust the list, in order to 
ensure that "PHOEBE" is always found, by adding 
it as the N+1 th element, we can avoid this 
comparison. The program then becomes: 

300 LET A$(N+1) = "PHOEBE" 

310 LET I = 0 

320 LET I = 1+1 

330 IF A$ (l)»"PHOEBE" THEN 400 

340 GOTO 320 

400 IF I = N + 1 THEN 500 

410 PRINT " PHOEBE FOUND.&c" 

• 

500 PRINT "NOT FOUND &c_" 

Now the comparison at line 400 will be 
executed once instead of N+1 times. This might 
not be a saving, however. As in all 'short-cuts' of ■ 
this nature, it may happen that the overheads of 
time or core-space used by arranging the short-cut 
are more expensive than the saving. In general, the 
longer the list, the better the saving. 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


71 














/ 

Thinkers' Comer 

by Layman E. Allen © 1976 


MATHEMATICS PUZZLES 

How many of the problems (a) through (f) below can 
be solved by forming an expression equal to the GOAL? 
(Suppose that each symbol below is imprinted on a disc.) 
The expression must use: 

(1) only single digits combined with operators, 

(2) all of the discs in the REQUIRED column, 

(3) as many of the discs in PERMITTED as you wish, 
and 

(4) exactly one of the discs in RESOURCES. 
Special Rules: 

The indicates "to the power of." Thus 3*2 = 3 2 = 9. 
The V' indicates "the nth root of." Thus V8 = 2. 
Parentheses can be inserted anywhere to indicate 
grouping, but never to indicate multiplication. 


Problem 

GOAL 

REQUIRED 

PERMITTED 

RESOURCES 

(a) 

18 

5 + 

48 + 

-XW 249 

(b) 

9 

7- 

28 

-X-h* 678 

(c) 

11 

8~ 

26- 

+- X * 148 

(d) 

6 

23 - 

158 

-- X -t-245 

(e) 

1 

34 

26+ - 

-X-r-0 125 

(f) 

10 

46 * 

2 3 *r— 

+- y 1 249 


'KH8tMIAI 'JoqJV uuy 

'peoy pje^oed 3 006 1 'a3ua6i||auJ| ueujnH jo luaiuaouequg aqj joj. uoq 
-epunoj am ujojj jsanbaj uodn a|qB|(BAB s\ satuB6 iBuoponjisin jaqio 
puB sjip jnoqB uo!Jblujo|U! aajj sopBLuaqiBi/M aAjiBajQ jo aoiBQ aqi 
SNOIlVnOB 6u|AB|d a>m m6\ui noA 'a|zznd jo pun| Slip Aofua noA p 

9 ■ (2 * fr) (j) 8 + (2 -5- 9) (3) 

<9 £) + (fc 2) (9) L - (2 X 8) (9) 

(8 - 2) - 9 (P) 6 + S + V (e) 

:(sj9L/jo dje djaqi A/juanbaj/J SJdMSuy paisa66n$ au/os 


COMPUTER 

RECREATIONS 

by D. Van Tassel 


Self-reproducing program 

Every so often one runs into a program that is really 
interesting to write but very simple to understand. I won't 
claim credit for this program since it has appeared in 
various forms in other places. Here is the program: Write a 
program that prints an exact copy of itself. No input state¬ 
ments are allowed. 

This can be done in any programming language. The pro¬ 
gram is an interesting exercise in program planning. For 
those who do not feel the above program is a sufficient 
challenge I offer the following interesting variation: The 
Dizzy Operator Program. 

Write a program that prints an exact copy of itself. No 
input statements are allowed. In addition because the 
computer operator is quite careless and sometimes puts the 
cards (or paper tape) in the machine upside down the 
program should execute exactly the same, either way. 

Now if anyone sends me a nice solution to either problem, 
I will publish it in a later column. (Send to D. Van Tassel, 
Computer Center, Univ. of California, Santa Cruz, CA 
95064). 


Dennie Van Tassel is the author of Program Style, 
Design, Efficiency, Debugging, and Testing. Many of the 
problems in this "Computer Recreations" series come 
from this book. Dennie also edited the newly-released 
The Comp/eat Computer published by SRA. 


A BICENTENNIAL MAGIC STAR 


by Carl E. Heilman 
Pa. Dept, of Education 
P.O. Box 911 
Harrisburg, PA 17126 


Of course, all of you know the story of Betsy Ross and the 
clever manner in which she folded a piece of paper or cloth 
and with a single snip of her shears, cut it to form a 
symmetrical five-pointed star. I hope you know how to 
duplicate her construction and will take advantage of its 
appropriateness for both Christmas and the Fourth of July. 

But my intention is to suggest that you relate more closely 
to George Washington and the cherry tree when George's 
father, after the tree was cut down, told George he wanted 
him to plant ten trees in place of the one chopped down. It 
was a sort of tithing program in reverse. But George had to 
plant the ten trees in five rows with four trees in each row. 
Imagine George's surprise when he found Betsy Ross's 
five-pointed star staring him in the facel 

Now my suggestion is to place a different integer at each 
of those points of intersection, so that the sum of the 
integers in each row is 76. The word "different" avoids the 
obvious solution which uses 19 at each point of inter¬ 
section. Using integers, I have obtained three different 
solutions, one using the values 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20, 22, 
23, 24, 26. I should like to know how many different 


solutions can be discovered and whether there is any way of 
determining the total number of distinctly different 
solutions, those using different groups of ten numbers. I 
should appreciate any reference which studies this problem 
of the magic five-pointed star. 



Since this problem first appeared in the Fall 1975 PCTM 
Newsletter, I have received some 60 different solutions 
from teachers and students in the Wyoming Valley West 
High School, Plymouth, PA. But there is still no conjecture 
as to the total number of possible solutions. Can anyone out 
there in Creative Computing land help? 


72 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 












Puzzles and 
Problems For Fun 

THREE BOYS 

Three boys weigh a total of 350 pounds, of which Bill 
weighs 105 pounds. The barefoot boy weighs exactly 15 
pounds less than the heaviest boy. Chuck weighs more than 
the boy with sneakers on. Art weighs less than the boy with 
loafers on. 

Which boy is barefoot? 

Games & Puzzles 


NO COMPUTER NEEDED 

Solve the following equations for x and y in your head. 
6751x + 3249y = 26751 
3249x + 6751y = 23249 


ARRANGE 

Can you arrange the letters of the magazine title 
CREATIVE COMPUTING in a 5 x 5 square grid so that 
starting at a C and proceeding one step at a time to a 
neighboring letter (horizontally, vertically or diagonally), 
the phrase can be spelled out in as many different ways as 
possible. For example, in the arrangement below CREA¬ 
TIVE COMPUTING can be spelled out in no fewer than 
100 different ways. Can you improve on that? Any letter 
may appear any number of times and a spelling out of the 
phrase may pass through the same letter more than once. 


You try here. 


R 

R 

A 

T 

1 






C 

E 

E 

1 

T 






O 

C 

V 

A 

G 






M 

O 

T 

1 

N 






P 

u 

1 

N 

G 







Adapted by David Ah I 

from a puzzle in Games & Puzzles. 


"COMPUTER CAREERS" 


by John K. Young 
Braintree, Mass. 



ACROSS 


1 Repeat a set of operations 
4 Price 

6 Pin for separating ropes 
8 Else 

10 Separate piece of information 

12 Make a mistake 

13 Clear 

15 The lion 

17 Transfer from one memory register to another 

19 Old Latin 

20 Part of curved line 

21 Period of time 

22 Electromagnet for reading 


24 Youth of Greater Tacoma 
26 Repetition of instructions 

28 Electronic Association 

29 Storage for information unit 

30 Path for transferring information 

32 Member of Parliament 

34 (•) 

35 Artificial unit 

37 Adolescent hair growth 

39 One hundred one 

40 Combine different fields of information into one 
machine word 

41 Nickname 

42 Counterfeit 

44 Pool 

45 Arrange information for output unit 

46 Hoofed, cud-chewing animal 

47 Circuit with two inputs and one output 

DOWN 

1 Computer electronics 

2 Volcano flow 

3 Single pulse 

4 Intervene 

5 Loss of precision 

6 Set of columns in punch cards 

7 Line for storing information in train of pulses 
9 Set of identifying characters 

11 Produce single sequence from two or more 
14 Anathema to hippies 
16 Digit in scale of eight 
18 Dad 

22 Retain information 

23 Eastern Order of Lithographers 

25 Withdraw power 

26 Glass for converging spreading rays of light 

27 Directs computer to next instruction 

29 City in northern France 

30 Boston University 

31 Southern Methodist Alumni 

33 Sharp voltage change 

35 Symbol in scale of ten 

36 Youth Corps 

38 Radix in numbers scale 

39 Close of musical composition 

42 Implore 

43 Indian tribe 

44 Paid newspaper notice 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


73 
































































































Another new game from Creative Computing. 


WATCHMAN 



Written by: Mac Oglesby, Putney, Vermont. 
Language: Standard BASIC. 

Description: This is a new version of the old “draw 
the figure without retracing or lifting your pencil” 
topological puzzle. The user acts as a watchman 
hired to patrol the streets of a small village as ef¬ 


ficiently as possible. To do this he must find a path 
that will not retrace any earlier steps. 

Suggestions: For CRT users— 

(1) Clear screen before every map. 

(2) Blink the character showing current position. 


100 REM WATCHMAN (SASIC PROGRAM.BEGINS AT LINE 240) WAS WRITTEN BY . 
110 REM MAC OGLESBY,, PUTNEY, VT. 05346 IN FEBRUARY 1975. 

120 REM LAST CHANGED IN MARCH 1975 BY BILL COTTER 
130 REM . 

140 REM.DESCRIPTION—YOU'VE BEEN HIRED TO PATROL THE VILLAGE STREETS 
150 REM WltwOUT RETRACING STEPS, AN OPTIONAL MAP AFTER EACH TURN SHOWS 
160 REM YOUR LOCATION AND FOOTPRINTS. A NEW VERSION OF AN OLD "DRAW 
170 REM THE FIGURE WITHOUT RETRACING OR LIFTING YOUR PENCIL" TOPOLOGICAL 
180 REM PUZZLE.. 1 

190 REM 

200 REM INSTRUCTIONS—TYPE RUN 
210 REM 

220 REM ★ * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *•* * * * * 

230 REM *** INITIALIZATION 
240 DIM D(23),P(15,23) 

250 l£T A3$ = 

260 LET F-I-M-0 
270 FOR J-l TO 15 


280 

•290 

300 

310 

320 


370 DATA * 
380 DATA *V 
390 DATA *N 
400 DATA *E 


READ D$ 

CHANGE D$ TO D 
FOR K-l TO 0(0) 

LET P(J,K)»D(K> 

NEXT K ,/ 

330 NEXT J 

340 DATA*" 0*********0"," * 1ST ST. * *" 

350; DATA '****ih*0*********0****★*,*! 2* 2ND ST. *3 4* 

360 DATA *S N* *R T*,*T D* 3RD ST. *D H* 

0*********0 *,*A A* *A A* 

V* *V V*,*E E* 4TH ST. *E E* 

o*********o******’,*u v * . 

5TH ST. *, ^ ★★******★★*★*** 

410 MATREAD E<5,4-> 

420 DATA.1,15,21,l,15,210,210,2 Ii6,30,42,6,6,10,210,1 4,10,35,14,1 
430 FOR >1 TO 5 
440 READ R(J) 

450 NEXT J 

460 DATA 1,4,8,12,15 
470 FOR J-l TO 4 
480 READ C<J) 

490 HEXT J 
500 DATA 1,7*17,23 
510 FOR J-l- TO' 5 
520 READ G$(J) 

530 NEXT,J , 

540 DATA ST,ND,RD,TH,TH 
550 FOR J-l TO 8 
560 READ 8(J) 

570 NEXT J 

580 DATA 12,13,22,23,32,33,42,43 
590 PRINT 

600 t PR I NT "WATCHMAN " t DAT $ 

610 PRINT "WANT INSTRUCT I()NS U « 

620 INPUT 1$ 

630 IF I SO" NO" THEN 660 
640 LET I-l 
650 GOTO 690 
660 PRINT. 

670 PRINT "YOU'VE BEEN HIRED AS WATCHMAN FOR THE VILLAGE." 

680 PRINT "YOUR JOB IS TO PATROL ALL ITS ROADS WITHOUT RETRACING STEPS." 
690 PRINT 

700 PRINT "VILLAGE MAP*" 

710 GOSUB 2550 
720 IF 1-1 THEN 770 

730 PRINT "YOU NAME A CORNER BY TYPING 2 NUMBERS? FIRST THE STREET,' 1 
740 PRINT "THEN THE AVENUE. FOR EXAMPLE, 32 MEANS THE CORNER OF" 

750 PRINT "3RD ST. AND 2ND AVE." 

760 REM GET MOVES 
770 PRINT 

780 IF M>0 THEN 850 

790 PRINT "YOU BEGIN AT ANY CORNER MARKED 0" 

800 PRINT "BEGIN WHERE (ST.,AVE.)»I 
810 INPUT A1 $,A2$ 

820 LET A$=AIS&A3S 
830 LET AS-AS&A2S 
840 GOTO 1110 

850 PRINT "YOU'RE AT"?A1IG$(AI)I" STREET AND"*A2IGS(A2)I" AVENUE." 

860 IF M=2 THEN 970 
870 IF 1=1 THEN'940 
880 PRINT • ’ 

890 PRINT "AT EACH TURN YOU WALK TO ANY ADJACENT CORNER WHICH IS" 

- 900 PRIN T "CONNECTED BY A ROAD NOT TROD EARLIER." 

•910 PRINT "ALTHOUGH YOU CAN'T WALK ON ANY ROAD TWICE, YOU MAY" 


920 PRINT "REVISIT CORNERS." 

930 PRINT 

940 LET M-2 

950 GOTO 1040 

960 REM **★ GAME OVER? 

970 IF E(A1 ,A2» 1 THEN 1030 
980 PRINT "WANT FINAL MAP"! . 

990 'INPUT M$ 

1000 IF M$="NO" THEN 2700 
1010 GOSUB 2530 
1020 GOTO 2700 

1030 PRINT "FOR A MAP TYPE '0,0'" 

1040 PRINT “WALK TO WHAT CORNER (ST.,AVE.)»| 
1050 INPUT A IS,A2S 
1060 LET AS-AI$&A3$ 

1070 LET AS-AS&A2S 

1080 IF AS<>"0,0" THEN 1110 

1090 GOSUB 2530 

1100 GOTO 1040 

.1110 IF LEN(A$)>9 THEN 1150 
1120 GOSUB 2410 
1130 REM,*** LEGAL COMMAND? 

1140 IF LEN(AS)=2 THEN 1180 
1150 PRINT "ILLEGAL MOVE!" 

1160 PRINT "INPUT IGNORED." 

1170 GOTO 770 

1180 LET Z9S - SST(AS,1,1) 

1190 LET A3=VAL(Z9$) 

1200 LET Z9S = S5T(A$,2,1) 

1210 LET A4=VAL(Z9S) 

1220 IF A4>4 THEN 1150 
1230 IF M*>1 THEN 1470 
1240 REM *** CAN HE START THERE? 

1250 FOR J=l TO 8 

1260 IF VAL(A$) = B(J) THEN. 1320 

1270 NEXT J 

1280 PRINT "SORRY, YOU CAN'T START THERE'!" 

1290 PRINT "START AT ONE OF THESE CORNERS*« 
1300 PRINT "12, 13, 22, 23, 32, 33t 42, OR 43. 
1310 GOTO 1160 i . 

1320 LET M-l 
1330 LET AI-A3 
1340 LET A2-A4 
1350 LET 0$=A$ 

1360 REM *** CHANGE 0 TO * ON THE MAP- 
1370 FOR J=l TO 5 
1380 FOR K=I TO 4 

1390 IF P(R(J),C(K))<>A5C(0) THEN 1410 

1400 LET P(R(J),C(K))=ASC(*) 

1410 NEXT K 

1420 NEXT J 

1430 HEM ★** MARK BEGINNING LOCATION 
1440 LET P(R(A1),C(A2))=ASC(&> 

U50 GOTO 770 

1460 REM *** ADJACENT CORNER? 

1470 IF VAL(OS)<>VAL(AS) THEN 1510 
1480 PRINT "YOU'RE AT THAT CORNER NOW!" 

1490 PRINT "INPUT IGNORED." 

1500 GOTO 1030 

1510 LET Z9$=SST(0$,1,1) 

1520 LET 01=VAL(Z9$) 

1530 LET Z9$«SST(0$,2,1.) 

1540 LET 02-VAL(Z9$) 

1550 IF A3-0I=0 THEN 1580 
1560 IF ABS(A3-01) = 1 THEN 1590 
1570 GOTO 1150 

1580 IF ABS(A4-02)=1 THEN 1610 
1590 IF A4-02<>0 THEN 1150 
1600 REM ★** WHERE'S HE HEADED? 

1610 IF A3-01O0 THEN 1720 
1620 IF A4-02<0 THEN 1680 
1630 REM *** EAST? 

1640 LET H-5 
1650 LET HI-/' 

1660 GOTO 1800 
1670 REM *** WEST? 

1680 LET H=7 
'Io90 LET HI=5 
1700 GOTO 1800 


74 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 






1710 REM **★ NORTH? 

1720 TF A3-01>0 THEN I 770 
1730 LET H*2 
1740 LET Hi“3 
1750 GOTO 1800 
1760 REM *** SOOTH? 

I 770 LET ,H«3 
1780 LET HI a 2 

1790 REM *** DOES PATH EXIST AND IS IT UNTROD? 

1800 IF E(01,02)/H<>INT(E(01 f 02)/H) THEN 1150 
1810 REM *** MOVE SEEMS LEGAL, SO RECORD FOOTSTEPS 
1820 LET A1«A3 
1830 LET A2-A4 
1840 LET 0$*A$ 

1850 LET E(01,02)**E(01 ,02) /H 
I860 LET E(AI,A2) a ECA1,A2)/HI 
1870 REM *** MARK HIS LOCATION 
1880 LET P(R(AI),C(A2))»ASC(&) 

1890 LET P( R(OI ) ,C (02 ) )**ASC(*) 

1900 REM *** KEEP VACATED CORNER? 

1910 IF E(0I,02)>1 THEN 1930 
1920 LET P(R(OI) ,C(()2) )«ASC( i') 

1930 IF H<>2 THEN 1980 

1940 FOR J=*l TO ASS<R (A* )-H<OI ))-l 

1950 LET P < R (01)-J ,C (02)) »ASC (*) 

1960 NEXT J 

1970 GOTO 2120 

1980 IF H<>3THtN 2030 

1990 FOR J a 1 TO ABS(R(AI 

2000 LET P(R(OI )+J,C(02) )**ASC< i) 

2010 NEXT J 

2020 GOTO 2120 

2030 IF H<>5 THEN 2080 

2040 FOR J*l TO A8S(c(A2)-C(02))-l 

2050 LET P(R(OI ),.C(02)+J)=ASC(O 

2060 NEXT J 

2070 GOTO 2120 

2080 FOR J a l TO A BS(C(A?)-C(02))-1 
2090 LET P(R(OI),C(02)-J)*ASC(») 

2100 NEXT J X 

2110 REM *** CONTINUE WALK IF NO CHOICE IS AVAILABLE 

2120 IF E<A1,A2)>7 THEN-770 

2130 IF E(A1,A2) a 6 THEN 770 

2140 IF F*1 THEN 2200 

2150 IF I-l THEN 2190 

2160 PRINT 

2170 PRINT M (THE COMPUTER AUTOMATICALLY MOVES YOU ALONG TO THE NEXT CORNER** 
2180 PRINT “AT WHICH A DECISION IS NECESSARY.)" . 

2190 LET F»1 

2200 IF E(AI,A2)<>7 THEN 2250 
2210 LET A4$*STRS(10*A1 — I+A2) 

2220 LET A9=L£N(A4$) 

2230 LET A$*SST(A4$,A9-2,2) 

2240 GOTO 1140 # 

2250 IF E(A1,A2)<>5'THEN 2300 
2260 LET A4$*STR$ (10*A1 +1+A2) 

2270 LET A9«LEN(A4$) 

2280 LET A$=SST(A4$,A9-2,2).. 

2290 GOTO 1140 

2300 IF E(AI,A2><»3'THEN 2350 
2310 LET A4$=STR$(I0*AI+I0+A2) 

2320 LET A9**LEN( A4$) 

2330 LET A$ a SST(A4$,A9-2,2) 

2340 GOTO 1140 

2350 IF E(AUA2)<>2 THEN 770 
2360 LET A4$ a STR$(I0*AI-1Q+A2) 

2370 LET 1 A9*LEN(A4$) . 

2380 LET A$*SST(A4$,A9-2,2) 

2390 GOTO 1140 

2400 REM *** ROUTINE TO DROP COMMAS, DASHES, ETC. 

2410 LET Cl»0 
2420 CHANGE AS TO A 
2430 FOR J»1 TO ACO) . 

2440 IF (ASC(5)-A(J))*(A( X J,)-ASC(I )X0 THEN 2470 
'2450. LET C1«CI+1 

2460 LET A(Cl)*A(J) 

2470 NEXT J 
2480 LET A(0)«CI 
2490 CHANGE A TO A$ 

2510 RETURN 

2520 REM *★* PRINT MAP ROUTINE • 

2530 PRINT 

2540 PRINT "& « YOU tin = FOOTPRINTS" 

2550 PRINT 
2560 FOR J a l TO 15 


WATCHMAN 05/06/75 
WANT INSTRUCTIONS ?YES 

YOU'VE SEEN HIRED AS WATCHMAN FOR THE VILLAGE. 

YOUR JOB IS TO PATROL ALL ITS ROADS WITHOUT RETRACING STEPS. 

VILLAGE MAPI 

0 ***JHr ****0 

* 1ST ST. * 

★ * 

*****^ 0 ******^* 0 ****** 


*1 

2* 2ND- ST. *3 

4* 

*s 

N* *R 

T* 

*T 

D* 3RD ST.. ' *0 

H* 

*~ 

0 ***** ****0. 

* 

★A 

A* *A 

A* 

★V 

V* ; *V 

V* 

*E 

E* 4TH ST. *E 

• E* 

*N 

0*r* *******0 ****** 

*U 

* 


*E 

5TH ST. * 




***************** 

YOU NAME A CORNER W TYPING 2 NUMBERS! FIRST THE STREET, 

THEN THE AVENUE. FOR EXAMPLE, 32 MEANS THE CORNER OF 
3RD ST., AND 2ND AVE. 

YOU BEGIN AT ANY CORNER MARKED 0 

BEGIN WHERE (ST.,AVE.) ?2,2 v 

YOU'RE AT 2 ND STREET. AND 2 ND AVENUE. 

AT EACH TURN YOU WALK TO AMY ADJACENT CORNER WHICH IS 
CONNECTED BY A ROAD NOT TROD ' EARLIER. 

ALTHOUGH YOU CAN'T WALK ON ANY ROAD TWICE, YOU MAY 
REVISIT CORNERS. 

WALK TO WHAT CORNER (ST.,AVE.) ?2,1 

(THE COMPUTER AUTOMATICALLY MOVES YOU ALONG TO THE NEXT CORNER 
AT WHICH A DECISION IS NECESSARY.) 

YOU'RE AT 4 TH STREET AND 3 RD AVENUE.- 
FOR A MAP TYPE '0,0'. 

WALK TO WHAT CORNER (ST.,AVE.) ?4,2 

YOU'RE AT 3 RD STREET AND 2 ND AVENUE. 

FOR A MAP TYPE >0,0' 

WALK TO-WHAT CORNER (ST.,AVE.) ?3,2 
YOU'RE AT THAT CORNER NOW! 

INPUT IGNORED. 

FOR A MAP TYPE >0,0' 

WALK TO WHAT CORNER (ST.,AVE.) ?2,2 

YOU'RE AT 2 ND STREET AND 2 ND AVENUE. 

FOR A MAP TYPE '0,0' 

WALK TO WHAT CORNER (ST.,AVE.) ?0,0 


YOU 


FOOTPRINTS 


*********** 
* 1ST ST. ★ 


iiii i»&**************** 


i,| 

2i 2ND ST. 

*3 

4* 

IS 

N • 

*R 

T* 

•T 

D* 3RD ST. 

*D 

H* 

i 

*********** 

* 

iA 

At 

*A 

A* 

iV 

Vt 

*V 

V* 

iE- 

Ei 4TH ST. 

*E 

E* 

tN 

tU 

itn * 11111 ******* 

t 

iE 

5TH ST. 

< 


t iistn tmii it 

11 



WALK TO WHAT CORNER (ST.,AVE.) ?2,3 

YOU'RE AT 2 ND STREET AND . ’3 RD AVENUE. 
FOR A MAP TYPE '0,0' 

WALK TO WHAT CORNER (ST..AVE.) ?3,3 


2570 LET D(0)«0 

2580 FOR K**23 TO I STEP -I 
2590 1 IF P(J,K)>32 THEN 2610 

2600 IF D(0)=*0 THEN 2630 
2610 LET D(K) a P(J,K) 

2620 LET D(0)«D(0)+l 

2630 NEXT K 

2640 CHANGE D TO D$ 

2650 PRINT D$ 

2660 NEXT J 
2670 PRINT 
2680 RETURN 


YOU'RE AT' 3 RD STREET AND 3 RD AVENUE. 
FOR A MAP TYPE '0,0' 

WALK TO WHAT CORNER (ST.,AVE.) ?3,2 


YOU'RE AT 3 RD STREET AND 
WANT. FINAL MAP ?YES • 

& = YOU nit = FOOTPRINTS 

****** ***** 

* 1ST ST. ★ 

* * 

tt ******* ************** 


2 ND AVENUE. 


2690 

REM .*★* END OF GAME 

t-l 

2• 2ND ST. 13 

4* 

2700 

PRINT 

iS 

N i tR 

T* 

2710 

REM *** LOSER? 

iT ' 

D4 3RD ST. |Q 

H* 

2720 

FOR J a 1 TO 5 

t 

&*tt*S(Stt* 

* 

2730 

FOR K=1 TO 4 

i A 

At *A 

A* 

2740 

IF E(J,K)=1 THEN 2770 

iV 

Vi *V 

V* 

2750 

PRINT "YOU WERE SUPPOSED TO PATROL THE WHOLE VILLAGE!" 

iE 

Ei 4TH ST. *E 

E* 

2760 

GOTO 2820 

IN 

******** i ******** 

2770 

NEXT K 

tU 

i 


2780 

NEXT J 

ft 

5TH ST. i 


2790 

2800 

2810 

REM ★** WINNER!! 

PRINT "*** CONGRATULATIONS ***" 

PRINT "YOU'VE WALKED THROUGHOUT THE VILLAGE WITHOUT RETRACING STEPS!" 

i iiiiiit <ttnt ttt 

/ 



2820 PRINT "TYPE RUN TO TRY AGAIN." 
2830 END 

ready, 


1 * 3 * *»•? 


YOU WERE SUPPOSED TO PATROL THE WHOLE,VILLAGE1 
TYPE RUN TO TRY AGAIN. 


ready 









X 


Another new game from Creative Computing.. 


DELMAR 


130C 
1 40C 
150C 
160C 

I 70C 
180C 
190C 
200C 
21 OC 
220C 
230C 
240C 
250C 
260C 
270C 
280C 
290,0 
300C 
31 OC 
320C 
330C 
340C 
350 
360 
370 
380 
390 
490 
500 
510 
520 
530 3 
540 
550 
560 
570 4 
580 5 
590 
600 
610 
620 
630 6 
640 
650 
660 
670 
680 
690 
700 
710 
720 
730 8 
740 

750 10 
760 
770 
780 

790 15 
800 
810 

820 20 
830 40 
840 
850 

860 50 

870 

880 

890 

900 

910 

920 

930 55 
940 56 
950 

960 60 
970 
983 
990 
1000 
1010 65 
1020 
1030 
1040 
1050 
1060 
1070 67 
1080 
1090C 
1100C 

II 10C 
1120C 
1130C 
11 40C 
11 50C 
1160C 


Author: Ron Morgan and Kirk Roderick, Northridge, Calif. 

Language: Fortran IV. 

Description: See Listing. 

DELMAR 



THIS PROGRAM SIMULATES A H0RSE RACE STRICTLY USING THE 
RANDOM FUNCTION. ' 


BY RON MORGAN, KIRK RODERICK 12/02/74 
CSUN 18111 Nl$RDH0FF STREET, NORTHRIDGE CA 91324 
THE DOUBLE PRECISION REALS, HORSE AND JOCK, CAN HOLD A 
MAXIMUM OF 16 ALPHA-NUMERIC CHARACTERS. THE COMMON 3LOCKS 
REFER TO EACH OF THE SUBROUTINES WHICH.ACCESS THEM. 

HORSE AND JOCK ARE DOUBLE PRECISION REAL ARRAYS THAT WILL 
HOLD THE NAMES OF THE HORSES AND JOCKEYS. IHAND CONTAINS 
THE HANDICAP THAT THE HORSES WILL START AWAY FROM THE 
FINISH LINE (FROM 1 TO 20). IODD IS THE ODDS (-1) THAT 
WILL BE PRINTED OUT (DIVIDES 40). IHORSE AND IMT CONTAIN 
THE HORSE NUMBER AND AMOUNT FOR EACH PLAYER'S BET. IPLAY 
IS THE NUMBER OF PLAYERS (1-5). IBANK CONTAINS THE AMOUNT 
OF MONEY EACH PLAYER HAS LEFT (INITIALIZED TO 100). 

IWIN IS THE NUMBER OF THE WINNING HORSE. 


PROGRAM DELMAR 

DOUBLE PRECISION HORSE(5),JOCK(5) 

COMMON /HORSEY/ HORSE.JOCK 
COMMON /NUMODD/ IHAND(5),I0DD(5) 

COMMON /BET/ IH0RSE(5),IMT(5),IPLAY,I3ANK(5) , IWIN 
CALL ESCAPE(8S) 

CALL TIME(3,IHOURS,MINS) 

IMINS=IHOURS*60+MINS 
WRITEd,3) 

F0RMAT(30X.6HDELMAR,2/5X* PROGRAM SIMULATES A HORSE* RACE 
+ BY USE OF THE RANDOM FUNCTION^/) 

WRITEd ,0)\," DO YOU WANT INSTRUCTIONS? " 

IANS=3H 

READ(0,5) IANS 
F0RMAT( A3) 

IF (IANS.EQ.3HN0 ) 

IF (IANS. EQ.3HYES) 


1170C 
1180C 
1190C 
1200C 
121 OC 
1220C 
1230C 
1240C 
1250C 
1260C 
1270C 
1280C 
1290C 
1300C 
1 31 OC 
1320C 
1330C 
1340C 
1350C 
. 1360C 
1370C 
1 380C 
1390C 
1400C 
141 OC 
1420C 
1430C 
1440C 
1450C 
1 460 
1470 
1480 
1490 
1500 
1510 
1 520 
1 530 
1540 
1550 
1560 
1570 
1580 
1 59 0 
1600 


NAME 


FUNCTION 


MODE OF 
ARGUMENT 


RANDOM(I) NEXT PSEUDO-RANDOM VALUE INTEGER 


MODE OF 
RESULT 


REAL 


IF I IS NEGATIVE, THE GENERATOR IS SET BACK TO THE BEGINNING 
OF ITS REPRODUCIBLE SEQUENCE. THE RESULT, R, WILL BE THE SAME 
AS THE FIRST TIME RANDOM IS CALLED AFTER LOADING. IF I IS 
ZERO, THE NEXT NUMBER IN THE REPRODUCIBLE SEQUENCE IS RETURNED 
AS THE RESULT. IF I IS GREATER THAN ZERO, AN INDEFINITE 
NUMBER (FROM 0 TO 63) OF THE NEXT SEQUENTIAL INTERMEDIATE 
12-BIT VALUES ARE SKIPPED BEFORE THE RANDOM NUMBER IS 
CONSTRUCTED. THE NUMBER OF VALUES SKIPPED IS DETERMINED BY THE 
LEAST SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF THE CURRENT VALUE OF THE REAL¬ 
TIME CLOCK IN THE COMPUTER. 


THE RANDOM NUMBERS ARE CONSTRUCTED FROM THREE 12-BIT GROUPS 
CALCULATED FROM 5**(2*NH) (MOD 2**39) , USING THE LEFT-MOST 
12-BITS. 

J AND L ARE THE NUM3ERS THAT ARE CHOSEN RANDOMLY THAT 
CONTROL THE HORSE(J) AND JOCKEYSL) THAT ARE CHOSEN. 

H AND JO ARE DEFINED IN DATA AS THE HORSES(H) AND JOCKEYS(JO) 
THE CHECK TO SEE IF THE H0RSE(0R J0CKEY9 WAS ALREADY CHOSEN 
STARTS AT 90. 

SUBROUTINE PICKS 

DOUBLE PRECISION H0RSE(5),J0CK(5),H(20),J0(20) 

* COMMON /HORSEY/ HORSE.JOCK 
DIMENSION J(5),L(5) 

DATA H /16HACK ACK ,16H0VERGL0RY 


GO TO 8 

_ GO TO 6 

WRITEd,0) \," PLEASE ANSWER YES OR NO: " 

GO TO 4 

WRITEd,0)" THIS IS A SIMULATED HORSE RACE. THERE ARE 20* 

WRITEd, 0)" HORSES AND JOCKEYS IN THE STABLE. YOU START** 

WRITEd,0);OUT WITH $100. ONLY WHOLE NUMBER AMOUNTS ARE* 

WRITEd,0) ALLOWED IN BETS (I.E. 100 NOT 100.00)." 

WRITEd ,0)" THERE IS A MAXIMUM OF 5" 

WRITEd,Or PLAYERS. THE HORSES AND JOCKEYS FOR EACH RACE ARE"1616 
WRJTE( 1 ,0) PICKED RANDOMLY AS ARE THE ODDS AND THE ACTUAL RAC1620 

WRITEd,0)^HOWEVER, THE ODDS DO HAVE A WEIGHT (OR HANDICAP) 
WRITEd,0) IN THE OUTCOME OF THE RACE. 

WRITEd,0)\,"HOW MANY PLAYERS? " 

READ(0,1 0) IPLAY 
FORMAT(Il) 

IF (IPLAY.LE.5.AND.IPLAY.GT.O) GO TO 15 
WRITEd,O)"T00 MANY PLAYERS. MAXIMUM OF 5." 

GO TO 8 

CALL ESCAPE(55S) 

DO 20 1=1,IPLAY 
IBANK(I)=100 
CONTINUE 
DO 50 1=1,5 

IH0RSE( I) =1 MT( I) = 10DD( I) = I HAND( I) =0 
H0RSE(I)=J0CK(I) = 16H 


+I6HTIMET0LIGHT ,16HG0LDEN WALLET 

+16HRED RUNNING GOOD,16HACR0CYAN0SIS 
+16HWH00PEE ,16HSHAMALEEN 

+16HC0MMAND PRINCE ,16HIR0NSIDE 

+1 6HCANN0NER0 II , 1 6HDAMAGE CONTROL 

+16HAUDACITY ,16HC0URI CLOWN 

DATA JO /I6HKSINNER ,16HGBAZE 


CONTINUE 
CALL PICKS 
CALL ODDS 
CALL BETS 
CALL ESCAPE (0) 

CALL RACE 
CALL BANKER 

IF SENSE LIGHT 1,67,56 

WRITEd,0)\,"DO YOU WANT ANOTHER RACE? 

I4NS=3H 

READ(0,5) IANS 
IF (IANS.EQ.3HYES) GO TO 65 
IF(IANS.EQ.3HN0 ) STOP 
WRITEd,0)\," PLEASE ANSWER YES OR NO: " 
GO TO 60 

CALL TIME(3, IHOURS,MINS) 

MINS=I HOURS*60+ MINS-28 

IF (IMINS.GT.MINS) GO TO 40 

WRITEd,0)"THIS IS YOUR LAST RACE: " 

SENSE LIGHT 1 

GO TO 40 

STOP 

END 


SUBROUTINE FOR PICKING HORSES AND JOCKEYS 
—RANDOM FUNCTION 

THE RANDOM FUNCTION RETURNS A PSEUDO-RANDOM NUMBER, R, WHERE 
0<=R«1. THERE ARE TWO MODES AVAILABLE: REPRODUCIBLE AND 
NON-REPRODUCIBLE. THE ARGUMENT SELECTS THE MODE. 


1630 


1640 


1650 

70 

1660 

80 

1670 


1680 


1690 


1 700 

90 

1 710 


1 720 

100 

1 730 

105 

1740 


1750 

120 

1 760 


1770 


1780C 


, 1 6HSH0EMAKER 
, 16HMLEWIS 
,16HA0CH0A 
,16HMRUJAN0 
,16HMUALENAUELA 
,16HSVALDEZ 


1 79 OC 

130CC 

1 81 OC 

1 82 OC 

1330C 

1840 

1850 

1360 

1370 

1880 130 
1890 

1900 140 
1913 150 
1920 
1930 
1940C 
1950C 
1960C 
1970C 
1980C 
1990C 
2000C 
201 OC 
2020 
2030 
2040 
2050 
2060 
2070 
2080 
2090 


76 


+16HJLE0NARD 
+16HSG0LDSMITH 
+16HWDELIA 
+16HPINEDA 
+16HSARCHULETA 
+16HFMENA 
CALL ESCAPE (0) 

DO 120 1=1,5 
J(I)=IFIX(RAND0M(5)*2O) 

L( I)=IFIX(RAND0M(5)*2O) 
IF(J(I)=O.0R.L(I)=O) GO T0 80 
IF (I.EQ.l) GO TO 105 
DO 100 L2= 1,1-1 

IF(J(I)=J(L2).0R.L(I) = L(L2)) G0 TO 80 

CONTINUE 

H0RS£(I)=H(J(I)) 

J0CK(I)=J0(L(I)) 

CONTINUE 

RETURN 

END 


SUBROUTINE FOR DETERMINING ODDS 


6HRAVISHING RUBY , 
’16HNADINE MALCOLM , 
,16HMISS ALERT 
,16HWILD SURF 
,16HSHIEK KAMIAKIN , 
,16HSWEET ANASTACIA / 

,16HJTG0NZALEZ 
,16HRYAKA 
,16HGLAWLESS 
,16HKFURL0NG 
,16HJWILBURN . 

,16HPEREZ / 


l 60 


THE ODDS ARE DETERMINED BY HAVING 40 DIVIDED BY THE 
HANDICAP. THIS PRODUCES THE ODDS FROM 2-1 TO 40-1. 
SUBROUTINE ODDS 

COMMON /NUMODD/ IHAND(5),I0DD(5) 

CALL ESCAPE (0) 

DO 150 1 = 1,5 

IHAND(I)=1FIX(RAND0M(5)*2O) 

IF (IHAND(I).LE.O) GO TO 130 
I0DD(I)=IFIX(4O/IHAND(I)) 

CONTINUE 

RETURN 

END 


SUBROUTINE FOR TAKING BETS 

IF THE PLAYER DOES NOT HAVE ANY M0RE MONEY (I8ANK=0) 
THEN THAT PLAYER DOES NOT GET A CHANCE T0 BET AND THE 
AMOUNT OF THE BET IS PUT T0 0 (IMT=0). 

SUBROUTINE BETS 

DOUBLE PRECISION H0RSE(5),J0CK(5) 

C0MM0N /HORSEY/ HORSE,jock 

COMMON /BET/ IH0RSE(5),IMT(5),IPLAY,IBANK(5), IWIN 
COMMON /NUMODD/ IHAND(5),I0DD(5) 

CALL ESCAPE (0) 

WRITEd,160) 

FORMAT( 1 X, 3/, 1 x" #" , 6X, " HORSE" 12x" J0 CKEy"22X," ODDS" , /) 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 






2100 

2110 

2120 170 
2130 180 

21 40 

2150 190 
2160 
2170 
2180 
2190 
2200 195 
2210 200 
2220 
2230 
2240 

22 50 

2260 21 5 
2270 
2280 
2290 

2300 217 
2310 220 
2320 
2330 
2340C 
2350C 
2360C 
2370C 
2380C 
2390C 
2400C 
241 0C 
2420C 
2430C 
2440C 
2450C 
2460 
2470 
2480 
2490 
2500 
2510 
2 520 
2530 230 
2540 
2550 
2560 233 
2570 235 
2580 
2590 240 
2600 
2610 

2620 245 
2630 

2640 250 
2650 
2660 

2670 260 

2680 

2690 

2700 265 
2710 

2720 267 

2730 

27-40 

2750 

2760 

2770 270 

2780 

2790 

2800 280 
2810 

2820 290 
2830 
2840 
2850C 


SMAPLE RunT) 


PROGRAM SIMULATES A HORSE RACE BY USE OF THE RANDOM FUNCTION 

DO YOU WANT INSTRUCTIONS? NO 
HOW MANY PLAYERS? 2 


D0 180 1=1.5 

WRITEC1 170) I 4 HORSECI),J0CKCI),I ODDCI) 

FORMATC <**,11, )",5X,A16,1 X, A16,12X, 12,"-l") 

CONTINUE 
WRITEC1,190) 

F0RMATC \, 1 X,3/" TYPE THE NUMBER 0F THE HORSE, THE AMOUNT 0F 
+ THE BET.") 

DO 220 1=1 ,IPLAY 
CALL ESCAPE (195S) 

IF CIBANKC P.LE.O) G0 T0 217 
WRITEC1,200) I 

F0RMATC\,1 X,/, "PLAYER # "ll,lX) 

READCO,0) IHORSEC I), IMTC I) 

IF (IHORSECI).LE,5.AND.IH0RSECI).GT.O) G0 T0 215 
WRITEC 1,0)" NO SUCH HORSE #." 

GO TO 195 

IF CIMTCI),LE.IBANKCI).OR.IMTCI).LT.O) GO TO 220 
WRITEC1,0) YOU DON'T HAVE THAT MUCH MONEY. ENTER HORSE #, 

+AND BET." 

GO T0 195 
IMTC I) =0 
CONTINUE 
RETURN 
END 

TYPE THE NUMBER OF THE HORSE* THE AMOUNT OF THE BET* 
THIS SUBROUTINE RUNS THE RACE INTERNALLY AND PRINTS THE RESULTS PLAYER * 1 2*10.00 


# 

HORSE 

JOCKEY 

ODDS 

Cl) 

DAMAGE CONTROL 

GLAWLESS 

4-1 

(2) 

GOLDEN WALLET 

JWILBURN 

8-1 

(3) 

WHOOPEE 

SARCHULETA 

2-1 

(4) 

COMMAND PRINCE 

JTGONZALEZ 

5-1 

(5) 

WILD SURF 

JLEONARD 

13-1 


IBELL CONTAINS ALL G'S SO THAT THE BELLS CAN BE OUTPUT 
USING THE C FORMAT. THE RACE IS RUN BY ADDING A RANDOM 
NUMBER C FROM 0-5) TO THE ACCUMULATED TOTAL AND THE 
HANDICAP CIHAND). WHEN ONE HORSE CROSSES THE FINISH LINE 
CIHAND>=60) THE RACE ENDS AND THE RESULTS ARE PRINTED TO 
SHOW WHERE EACH HORSE WAS WHEN THE WINNER CROSSED THE 
FINISH LINE. 

SUBROUTINE RACE 

COMMON /BET/ IHORSEC5),IMTC5),IPLAY, IBANKC5) , IWIN 
COMMON /NUMODD/ IHANDC5),IODDC5) 

DOUBLE PRECISION IBELL 
CALL ESCAPE CO) 

WRITEC1,0)"AT THE SOUND OF THE BELL THEY'RE OFF." 

DO 230 1 = 1,10000 
CONTINUE 

IBELL=10HGGG.GGGGGGG 
WRITEC1,233) IBELL 
FORMATC \, Cl 0) 

DO 240 1=1,5 

IHANDCI)=1HANDCI)+IFIXCRANDOMC 5)*5) 

CONTINUE 
DO 245 II =1 ,5 

IF CIHANDCI1).GE.60) G0 TO 250 
CONTINUE 
GO TO 235 
IWIN1=1HANDC 1 ) 

DO 260 1 = 1 ,5 

IWIN1 =MAXOC IWIN1 , IHANDC I)) 

CONTINUE 
DO 265 1=1,5 

IFCIWIN1 . EQ. IHANDC I) ) IWIN1=I 

CONTINUE 

WRITEC 1 ,267) 

F0RMATC49X," FINISH LINE*") 

IWI N= IWIN1 

WRITEC1,0) "HERE ARE THE RESULTS:" 

DO 290 1=1,5 
WRITEC1,270) I 
FORMATC\,"C", II ,")") 

DO 280 N=1,IHANDCI)-l 
WRITEC1,0) 

CONTINUE 
WRITEC1,0) "*" 

CONTINUE 

RETURN 

END 


PLAYER # 2 3*50*00 

AT THE SOUND OF THE BELL THEY'RE OFF* 
HERE ARE THE RESULTS* 

f 13.. 

<23--- 

(33.-. 

(43---- 

(53.-. 


FINISH LINE* 


HORSE #3 WON. 

HERE ARE YOUR BANK BALANCES* 


FLAYER #1 1 


PLAYER #2 S 200.00 

DO YOU WANT ANOTHER RACE? YES 


# 

HORSE 

JOCKEY 

ODDS 

(1) 

WHOOPEE 

MLEW1S 

20-1 

(2) 

OVERGLORY 

KSINNER 

6-1 

(3) 

ACROCYANOSIS 

SVALDEZ 

2-1 

(4) 

ACK ACK 

MRUJANO 

3-1 

(5) 

AUDACITY 

MUALENAU ELA 

40-1 


TYPE THE NUMBER OF THE HORSE* THE AMOUNT OF THE BET* 
PLAYER # 1 3*33*28 


PLAYER # 2 4*25.00 

AT THE SOUND OF THE BELL THEY'RE OFF* 
HERE ARE THE RESULTS* 

(13.. 

(23---- 

(33....— 

(43-—-- 

(53.... 


FINISH LINE* 


HORSE #3 WON. 

HERE ARE YOUR BANK BALANCES* 


PLAYER #1 $ 156*00 


2860C 


player 

#2 S 175.00 



2870C 

THIS SUBROUTINE KEEPS A RECORD OF WINS AND LOSSES. 

DO YOU 

WANT ANOTHER RACE? 

YES 


2880C 






2890C 

THE 3ANK TOTALS ARE DETERMINED BY WHETHER THE PLAYER 





2900C 

CHOSE THE WINNER. IF A BANK BALANCE BECOMES GREATER 





291 OC 

THAN 9999 THE PROGRAM ENDS AND PRINTS OUT A MESSAGE, 

# 

HORSE 

JOCKEY 

ODDS 

292 OC 

OR IF ALL THE PLAYERS RUN OUT OF MONEY ANOTHER MESSAGE IS 





2930C 

PRINTED OUT. 

Cl> 

COURT CLOWN 

JWILBURN 

4-1 

2940C 


(2) 

WHOOPEE 

SVALDEZ 

2-1 

2950 

SUBROUTINE BANKER 

(3) 

WILD SURF 

GBAZE 

4-1 

2960 

COMMON /BET/ IH0RSEC5),IMTC5),IPLAY, IBANKC5) ,IWIN 

(4) 

SHIEK KAMIAKIN 

AOCHOA 

4-1 

2970 

COMMON /NUMODD/ IHANDC5),IODDC 5) 

(5) , 

TIMETOLIGHT 

SARCHULETA 

3-1 

2980 

CALL ESCAPE CO) 





2990 

WRITEC 1 ,300) IWIN 





3000 300 

FORMATCIX/" HORSE #“,I1," WON."/"HERE ARE Y0UR BANK BALANCES: 5 





3010 

11 =12=0 

TYPE THE NUMBER OF THE HORSE* THE AMOUNT OF THE BET* 


3020 

DO 340 1=1 , IPLAY 

PLAYER 

# 1 5*30.00 



3030 

IFC IHORSEC D.EQ.IWIN) GO TO 310 





3040 

IBANKC I) = IBANKC D-IMTCI) 

PLAYER 

# 2 2*50.00 



3050 

GO TO 320 

AT THE 

SOUND OF THE BELL 

THEY'RE OFF. 



3060 310 IBANKC I) = IBANKC I) + IMTC I)*C IODDC IWIN) ) 

3070 320 WRITEC1,330) I,IBANKCI) 

3080 330 F0RMATC1 X,/" PLAYER #",I1," $ ",F7.2) 

3090 IF CI3ANKCD.GT.9999) SENSE LIGHT 2 

3100 IFC IBANKC I) .LE.O) 12=12+1 

3110 340 CONTINUE 

3120 IF SENSE LIGHT 2,350,345 

3130 345 IFC 12.GE. IPLAY) GO TO 360 

3140 RETURN 

3150 350 WRITEC1,O)"Y0U HAVE BROKEN THE BANK!111!" 

3160 STOP 

31 70 360 WRITEC1 ,0)"YOU ALL RAN OUT OF MONEY. PLEASE PAY THE" 

3180 WRITEC1 ,0)“CASHIER WHEN YOU EXIT. THANK YOU." 

3190 STOP nn 

3200 end Page 11 


HERE ARE THE RESULTS* 

(i>. 

( 2 >—... 

(3) ---.— 

(4) -—.-. 

(5) . 

HORSE #5 WON. 

HERE ARE YOUR BANK BALANCES* 

PLAYER #1 $ 246.00 

PLAYER #2 $ 125.00 

DO YOU WANT ANOTHER RACE? YES 


FINISH LINE* 
























Creative Computing Compendium 


This section of Creative Computing 
consists of news, notes, quotes, and 
short bits about this computer age in 
which we live. It was compiled and 
edited by Trish Todd, a freshman at 
Brown University along with David Ahl. 


Did this really happen? 

Perhaps it happened at Cornell. In an 
electrical engineering lab a young 
instructor was desperately trying to 
organize the first day’s work. A 
freshman came up to him and said, 
“There’s no power at my lab station.” 

“Sure there is,” said the instructor. 
“I checked them all myself.” 

“No, there isn’t,” insisted the stu¬ 
dent. 

“Go test it!” 

“I don’t have any voltmeter.” 

“You don’t need a voltmeter. Just 
brush the backs of your fingers across 
the terminals. It’ll bite, but it won’t 
hurt you.” 

The kid backed off, looking mighty 
skeptical. A minute later there was a 
blinding flash in that corner of the lab 
and breakers popped open all over the 
place. By the time the instructor got to 
the bench he found the molten remains 
of a Stillson wrench hanging from the 
terminals and the kid backing off, 
crying, “My God, my God, what if it 
had been me?” 

Clifford Swartz 
The Physics Teacher 

Computer on Ice 

To computerize, or not to computer¬ 
ize? That is the question as the time 
worn tug-of-war between man and 
machine gets an athletic yank. 

Raymond Epich, a hockey enthusiast 
and vice president with the Chicago 
office of Cresap, McCormick and Paget, 
Inc., management consultants, has ap¬ 
plied for a patent for an electronic 
tracking system to produce computer¬ 
ized hockey statistics in profusion 
enough to make even a baseball sigh. 

The experimental system consists of 
an electronic grid underneath the rink, 
plus transmitting devices in the puck 
and players’ skates and sticks that 
would allow the computer to produce 
instant readouts of such statistics as the 
velocity of a shot, the speed of a given 
player, which players spend the most 
time on the ice and on and on. 

“In hockey you really have only 
three or four basic statistics,” says Mr. 
Epich, which does not give the hockey 
freak much to discuss during the off 
season. 

One ardent fan said he would “love 
to see the idea implemented.” But he 
noted, most fans are skeptical about 
new ideas -that might disrupt the game. 


A spokesman from the World Hock¬ 
ey Association in Toronto said statistics 
“rarely help sell tickets.” 

“They’re talking about big dollars,” 
he added. Mr. Epich readily agrees, 
giving a ballpark figure of SI-million per 
stadium to cover costs for implementa¬ 
tion. Still, he says he has received some 
30 inquiries about the system. 

NY Times 



Calculators at Work 

POCKETCALCULATORS affect 
work from the executive suite to the 
classroom. 

“You’ll find them in more attache 
cases today than socks or underwear,” 
declares James J. Brown, a Walter Kidde 
& Co. senior executive. He’s able to 
answer financial questions immediately 
instead of telling his boss, “I’ll be back 
to you on that.” The noise level at AMF 
Inc.’s headquarters drops sharply as 
“mechanical monsters” are replaced 
with the small, quiet devices. 

Harris Corp. Chairman Richard B. 
Tullis uses his pocket calculator daily to 
figure percentage changes, rates of 
return and growth rates. An Atlanta 
Pontiac dealer finds customers whipping 
out calculators to double-check sales¬ 
men’s arithmetic. Some college quizzes 
grow longer as teachers discover stu¬ 
dents completing work more quickly. 

But one Detroit bank executive 
complains, “I just can't add three - or 
four-digit numbers in my head” since 
starting to use a pocket calculator. 

Wall St. Journal 


But Who Will Read It? 

IBM has introduced a laser printer 
that operates at six times the speed of 
its currently available hardware. The 
IBM 3800 will print up to 13,360 lines 
per minute on plain paper, and be 
available in the third quarter of 1976. 
Operating like an “office copier”, it will 
not require supplies like ribbons and 
carbon paper, and will be able to 
reproduce form designs on blank paper. 
Multiple copies will be produced faster 
than older printers can produce single 
copies. 

78 


The Computerized Eye Doctor 



Remember your last eye test? The 
optometrist changed the eye chart you 
had memorized, caught you squinting, 
and then thoroughly confused you by 
changing lenses before your eyes and 
asking “Is this better?” or “Is that 
better?” You started wondering if you 
could see at all. Well, all that is going to 
be part of history soon according to the 
American Optometric Association. The 
technology that brought us pocket 
computers is bringing small computer¬ 
ized diagnostic equipment into 
optometrists’ offices. The new pheno¬ 
menon is called electrodiagnosis. 

Before too long, you will sit down in 
the optometrist’s office and let a 
computer “read” what your brain is 
“seeing*’ (the eye collects data and 
sends it to the brain, where we actually 
see). Three electrodiagnostic vision tests 
developed at the University of Houston 
College of Optometry are already 
available on a limited basis: 

o VER, or visual evoked response. 
VER is a test used to objectively 
measure the refractive state of the eye. 
Today it is being used to examine the 
vision of small children, retarded per¬ 
sons, the deaf, and others who cannot 
respond to subjective tests of their 
vision. 

o ERG, or electroretinogram. ERG 
records electrical responses directly 
from the eye’s retina, the ten-layered 
inner lining of the eye, and far surpasses 
the -current method of diagnosis, which 
involves using an instrument called the 
opthalmoscope to look at the retina 
through the pupil. Many eye surgeons 
now rely on ERG to aid them in 
determining whether or not cataract 
'surgery should be undertaken. 

o EOG, or electro-oculogram. EOG 
records eye movements and helps the 
optometrist determine, for instance, if a 
child can accurately and smoothly move 
his eyes when switching his view from 
blackboard to desk. 

When will the new tests be available? 
Within the next year or two, claims the 
American Optometric Association, 
group practices will be using computer¬ 
ized equipment routinely. 

Science Digest 
CREATIVE COMPUTING 


I 
















Science IQ Dropping Fast 

Can you answer these science ques¬ 
tions? 

1) In terms of the story of natural 
selection, what is the explanation of 
why giraffes have come to have such 
long necks? 

a. Stretching to get food in high 
trees has made their necks longer. 

b. There is something inside of 
giraffes which keeps making 
longer necks. 

c. Giraffe food contained vitamins 
which caused the vertebrae to 
lengthen. 

d. Giraffe necks have gotten longer 
and longer as time has gone on, 
but nobody has any idea why this 
is. 

e. Giraffes born with the longest 
necks have been able to stay alive 
when food was scarce and have 
passed this trait on to their 
offspring. 

2) Which of the following is good 
evidence for concluding that glaciers 
once covered Canada? 

a. Rocks containing melted ice have 
been found throughout Canada. 

b. Radioactive decay of uranium in 
Canadian rocks has been meas¬ 
ured. 

c. Scratches on surface rocks in 
Canada look like scratches made 
by known glaciers. 

d. Only glaciers could have formed 
the high Canadian mountains. 

e. Canada has a cold climate which 
glaciers need in order to keep 
from melting. 

3) What device changes the voltage of 
an electric power supply? 

a. alternator. 

b. battery. 

c. rectifier. 

d. transformer. 

4) Of the following, which is the 
most direct cause of the tides on earth? 

a. The tilt of the earth’s poles. 

b. The magnetic field of the earth. 

c. The slope of land near the 
shoreline. 

d. The revolution of the earth about 
the sun. 

e. The effect of the moon’s gravita¬ 
tional pull on earth. 

The correct answers are: l)e; 2)c; 
3) d; and 4) e. If you answered the 
giraffe question correctly, you did as 
well as 53 per cent of the 17-year-olds 
asked the question in a recent national 
survey directed by the National Assess¬ 
ment of Educational Progress (NAEP). 
If you answered the glacier question 
correctly, you did better than most 
17-year olds; only 38 per cent answered 
it correctly. If you answered the energy 
' question correctly, you did as well as 
46.6 per cent of the 17-year-olds. And if 
you answered the last question cor¬ 
rectly, you agreed with 41.9 per cent of 
a younger group, 13-year-olds. 

NAEP asked science questions about 
biology, chemistry and physics of 
90,000 students ages 9, 13 and 17 
during the 1972-73 school year. The 
results show science knowledge has 


declined since 1969-70, the last year 
NAEP made the survey. There was a 
drop in’all age groups but the oldest 
students showed the sharpest decline. 
Rural students did better, while big city 
students and suburban students did 
worse. Big city students showed the 
greatest decline. The performance of 
males and females dropped at all ages, 
but boys did better than girls and the 
older the students, the lower the girls’ 
scores compared to boys. 

NAEP project director J. Stanley 
Ahmann doesn’t know why science 
knowledge is declining among students, 
but he speculates that the better 
performance in 1969-70 may have been 
due to the emphasis given science 
education in the wake of Sputnik. 

Science Digest 


The Grants Data Bank 



The newest and most efficient 
instrument to match the interests of 
those seeking funds with those granting 
funds is the Grants Data Bank. 

Take, for example, a grant to bring 
more bluebirds back to New York. The 
words “bird life” are fed into the bank, 
and after 90 seconds of polite whirring 
the computer prints out five grants. 
(With electronic thoroughness, the com¬ 
puter also prints out a grant to Blue 
Bird Circle in Houston to construct a 
new outlet store.) A name such as 
“Audubon” would undoubtedly have 
turned up more possibilities! 

The price for a search (which can be 
arranged by mail) is $15 for up to 50 
grant records and 20^ for each grant 
record thereafter. For a broad field such 
as health, education or conservation, 
specify the maximum expenditure and 
narrow the field as much as possible. 
For example, specify only those 15 
foundations that have the largest grant 
programs for a given field. 

For more information contact: The 
Foundation Center, 888 Seventh Ave¬ 
nue, New York, NY 10019. 

Automatic Checkbook Balancing 

A checkbook that includes a built-in 
calculator will be offered soon by the 
Chase Manhattan Bank. Manufactured 
by Mostek Corp. of Dallas, TX, the unit 
can add and subtract and has a constant 
memory for the balance that is not 
erased even when the unit is turned off. 
Similar units are being rushed to market 
by other manufacturers of pocket 
calculators. 



A computer has become the means 
of communication between Lana, a 
four-year-old chimpanzee, and the rest 
of the world. Two years ago, she started 
to use the symbols on a computer key 
board to talk to her keepers. Lana 
quickly mastered about forty words, 
and now, she is able to use about 
seventy-five word symbols and is asking 
to learn more. She has begun to ask her 
trainers the names of various objects. 
Lana’s ability to learn a language 
suggests that the mental ability of 
chimpanzees may have been under¬ 
estimated. Researchers at the Yerkes 
Regional Primate Research Center in 
Atlanta, where Lana is being trained, 
say that the methods used to teach Lana 
may eventually be used to help mentally 
retarded or disturbed children who have 
trouble learning to communicate. 

Science News 


Opportunities for the Deprived 

A computer has helped 600 educa¬ 
tionally, physically, and economically 
handicapped people find vocational or 
educational training that met their 
specific needs. This computer is part of 
a program called Computer Based 
Educational Opportunity Center, spon¬ 
sored by the City University of New 
York and located at the Henry Street 
Settlement House. 

Programmed with more than 500 
academic and training sources in all five 
boroughs, the computer can find a 
workable solution to fit the special 
needs of most people. It has, for 
example, found a key punch operator 
training center for a handicapped 
veteran with a child who needed day 
care services, a woman who wanted a 
career in carpentry, and a man who 
could only spend $500 a year for his 
education to become a chemical engin¬ 
eer. 

There are five counseling computers 
in New York; however, four are at 
colleges, and Henry Street is the only 
social agency using the program. The 
computer terminal is small, so it is easy 
to transport it to other New York 
neighborhoods. The program may well 
become a vital resource in bringing 
education and careers to low income 
people. 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


79 








Multics Provides Power, Protec¬ 
tion 

. In the early part of 1973, Honeywell, 
Inc. introduced the Multiplexed In¬ 
formation and Computing Service 
(Multics) to the commercial market. 

The Multics project began in 1965 
and was funded by the Advanced 
Research Projects Agency of the Depart¬ 
ment of Defense. Research was con¬ 
ducted by the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology’s Project MAC, Bell Tele¬ 
phone Laboratories and General Elec¬ 
tric. In 1969, Bell Labs terminated its 
participation, and General Electric sold 
its computer business to Honeywell in 
1970. 

The result was the Multics system, 
based on Honeywell’s 6000 series of 
large-scale computers. It features a ring 
protection system, software which is 
free of core memory restraints and any 
particular hardware configuration, and 
“the most powerful virtual memory 
system yet available.” The resources of 
the system are available to any user on 
demand. 

The ring protection system offers 
maximum security and privacy. A user 


Smart Kid 


When he was fourteen years old, 
David Touretzky of Edison, N. J. 
decided that he would like to learn 
about computer science. Now, at age 
fifteen, he has written a one hundred 
page manual on the subject, learned 
over a dozen computer languages, and 
this spring, taught a three day seminar 
on a computer language known as 
BASIC at Kean College. 

David earned enough money from 
babysitting and mowing lawns to buy 
the books and manuals he needed to 
teach himself computer science. He then 
wrote his own manual for others who 
would like to teach themselves. The 


"Rings of Protection" in Honeywell's 
advanced Multics computer system. 


can allow a “guest” to use the system, 
but the method and condition of access 
are established only by the owner of the 
requested file. 

However, Multics’ most attractive 
feature is that it is a general-purpose 
system which is able to efficiently serve 
a large community of users with diverse 
needs. It provides the most cost-effec¬ 
tive environment for problem solving 
because of its flexible nature. With the 
introduction of Multics began an era of 
measuring a computer’s efficiency by its 
problem solving abilities instead of in 
terms of its memory size, speed, or cost. 

A typical small Multics configuration 
would include one 6180 central proces¬ 
sor (an enhanced version of the 
company’s 6080), 192,000 words of 
main memory, one million words of 
bulk core storage, 200 million bytes of 
disk storage, one input/output multi¬ 
plexor, one Datanet 355 communica¬ 
tions processor, five tape units, a card 
reader, card punch and printer, plus 
terminals. Purchase price of this con¬ 
figuration would be $3,565,000. 


book is now in its second printing by 
E.I.S. Press and is sold in college 
bookstores throughout New Jersey. 

David is now developing Computer 
Based Resource Units at Educational 
Information Services (EIS), for which 
he has technical responsibility. These 
resource units will provide media and 
references for biology and ecology 
teachers. Last year, David wrote pro¬ 
grams for the business computers at 
Philips Data Systems of Union, a 
division of North American Philips 
Corporation. 

David hopes to skip his senior year at 
Edison High School and go on to 
Rutgers. After he reaches his eventual 
goal of a Ph.D. in computer research, he 
Would like to work with computers and 
artificial intelligence. 


Computers in Medieval Days? 

Finding evidence for historical analy¬ 
sis is rarely easy, particularly for periods 
in time that left us with few records, 
such as the Middle Ages. History has 
always pictured the Middle Ages as a 
time of glamorous chivalry and feudal 
wealth. However, with the aid of a 
computer, a census called Roles des fiefs 
(list of estates), taken of a territory in 
thirteenth century France, has shed a 
completely different light on this 
period. 

The census was a record of the 
economic and social situations of 1,182 
persons who held lands from Count 
Thibaut IV de Chansonnier of Cham¬ 
pagne. Quantification by the computer 
showed that feudal lords, who owned 
huge castles, had judicial and taxation 
rights, and had fief-holders of their own, 
were a distinct minority. The usual 
aristocrat had a small income and lived 
modestly, as other rural farmers did. 
The majority of these aristocrats were 
knights, rewarded only with a title for 
defending their faith and their lord’s 
lands and ladies. 

Previous medieval social history has 
been drawn from charter evidence and 
ecclesiastical property records. But 
Professor Theodore Evergates of West¬ 
ern Maryland College offers the findings 
of the computer as a corrective to the 
traditional picture of the medieval 
society. 


Computers in Crime Labs 

The Bank of America building in 
Santa Barbara, California is bombed, 
and a computer arrives on the scene, 
peering through a magnifying glass and 
sprinkling dust for fingerprints. Yes, 
Data General Corporation’s 
Nova 1200-based system minicomputer 
has been helping the Treasury Depart¬ 
ment’s Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and 
Firearms Crime Laboratory solve this 
crime and others similar to it. 

One of the Nova systems played a 
major part in solving the bombing in 
Santa Barbara. A ceiling tile containing 
bomb fragments and unburned explo¬ 
sives, a pipe from the suspect’s garage, 
and soil from his shoes were taken to 
the ATF Laboratory. There, the mater¬ 
ial was chemically treated and exposed 
to radiation in a nuclear reactor. The 
pulse height analysis proved the frag¬ 
ments in the ceding tile were made up 
of the same material as the pipe from 
the suspect’s garage, and that the soil 
from the shoes matched soil from 
around the bank. These results were 
used as evidence in court, and the 
suspect was indicted. 

Nova computers also process gunshot 
cases by checking swabs from a 
suspect’s hand for components of 
gunshot residue. The facilities in the 
Crime Laboratory are available to any 
Law Enforcement Agency in the United 
States. 


80 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 






















Lost? Get a Computer 

Computers have helped man gather 
billions of pieces of information, classi¬ 
fy them, and file them. However, when 
studying large amounts of data, it is 
hard for man to make comparisons, 
establish relationships, and solve pro¬ 
blems, Through graphics and mapping 
techniques, computers can organize data 
into formats that will help man deal 
with data more efficiently and effective- 

iy- 

A popular method of mapping has 
been shaded area mapping. It is a 
computerized way of drawing a map 
and coloring in different areas according 
to the given qualifications. However, 
because computers use digitized for¬ 
mats, it is hard to program an area that 
is not rectangular, such as a country, 
city, or county. It is also difficult to 
compare and combine data using the 
shaded area mapping; the resulting area 
hides its elements. 

A new approach to the problem of 
computer mapping has emerged called 
symbol maps. Symbol maps pose no 
restriction on the amount of data to be 
displayed or the design of the symbols. 
The two types of plotted symbols used 
most often are the circle/square symbol 
and a focus indicator symbol. When 
using the circle/square symbol, the 
square acts as a universe, and the circle 
is a subset. The square may also be 
divided vertically or horizontally, and 
circles can interlink. The focus indicator 
symbol is a circle divided into arc fans. 
The size and number of the fans are 
easily adjustable and can be determined 
by the given data. 


Both the circle/square and focus 
indicator symbols will become more 
familiar to the public as their use is 
increased and perfected. These two 
methods of mapping will continue the 
computer’s job of helping man gather 
data to solve problems. 

Worthless Information Depart¬ 
ment 

For those people lucky enough to 
have Texas Instruments SR-22 cal¬ 
culators: 

1) Turn on calculator. 

2) Set to ‘manual’. 

3) Change base to Decimal. 

4) Punch in 4 444 444 (seven 4s). 

5) Hit the HEX conversion key eight 
times, leaving the calculator in 
DECIMAL. After the eighth HEX 
conversion the display will not 
come back — congratulations! 
Your SR-22 is in an endless loop. 
The only , way to clear it is to turn 
the calculator off and then on 
again. 

I know this works on at least two 
SR-22s, so it probably works on all of 
them. I haven’t the faintest idea why 
this happens — the machine does funny 
things on repeated hex conversions in 
decimal mode. Someday I’ll get around 
to writing T.I. and asking them. 

Don’t ask me how I discovered this. / 
don’t know *how I discovered it. I just 
like to punch buttons and play with 
things. Call it Creative Insanity exempli- 

fied. jui 

John Lees 

Rolla, MO 


This 

. l uW'ifttioii 

is Available in 
MICROFORM 



...from 

Xerox 
University 
Microfilms 

300 North Zeeb Rd., 
Ann Arbor, Mich. 48106 
(313) 761-4700 

PLEASE WRITE 
FOR COMPLETE 
INFORMATION 



The circle symbols on this map show the 
distribution of school age children. The full 
circle shows the total number; the shaded 
area, children in low-income families. 



The focus indicator is a powerful tool for 
display when data elements and map options 
are chosen carefully. 


$15,000 and 
above 


$10,000-14,999 


$7,000-9,999 


$0-2,999 

$3,000-6,999 



WORLD'S LARGEST CHECKOUT 


Canton Central Township, Michigan — The world's largest checkout 
system has been installed in a Meijer, Inc., superstore in this 
suburban community 30 miles west of Detroit. Shown above are 
some of the giant store's 58 checkout lanes. There are another 31 
checkout stations in separate departments throughout the store. The 
half-million-dollar electronic checkout system includes, in addition 
to 89 NCR 255 checkout terminals, four NCR 726 in-store 
computers which control the operation of the system. 


“As soon as you can say what you think 
and not what some other person has thought 
for you, you are on the way to being a 
remarkable man.” 

James M. Barrie 


SEP-OCT 1976 


81 











































































Talk, Type, and Now Write Over 
Telephone Lines 

Scientists at Bell Telephone Labora¬ 
tories have developed a video system 
that transmits handwriting, reproduces 
pictures, and can be used to communi¬ 
cate directly with a computer. The new 
system is a step forward in improving 
interaction between people and ma¬ 
chines. 

The system consists of a commer¬ 
cially available plasma panel display 
(modified by Bell Labs), electronic 
control circuitiy, and a special light pen. 

The panel is made of thousands of 
tiny neon-gas cells which glow when 
energized by an electric current. These 
glowing cells may be turned on and off 
selectively to produce images; an image 
may be sent from far away if the correct 
instructions are given over a telephone. 


If two panels are connected, “writing” 
on one panel with the light pen will 
produce the image on the other panel. 
The tone of the dots in the images may 
also be varied by changing the density 
of the cells that have been charged. This 
quality is essential for truthful repro¬ 
ductions. 

The system is still being developed, 
but some potential, practical uses of the 
system have already been proven. The 
system can: 

• record a person’s signature and 
display it on command 

• reproduce pictures and charts at 
the rate of a few per minute 

• display a list of telephone num¬ 
bers and simulate dialing the 
number pointed to with the pen 

• ' serve as a desk top .calculator 

• display the time and date on 
command. 



Bell Labs Contributions to Digital 
Computer Technology 

Efficiency is one major benefit of the 
computer, and as the operation of a 
corporation becomes more complex, 
detailed, and time-consuming, it fre¬ 
quently is possible to design computer 


systems to cope with these problems. 
For example, Bell Telephone Labora¬ 
tories have designed a computer system 
for telephone repair service. LMOS, the 
Loop Maintenance Operating System, 
allows local Telephone Company repair 
service bureaus to make automatic tests, 
under minicomputer control, of cus¬ 


tomer lines. The minicomputers have 
access to data stored in a large computer 
in another location. Often, trouble can 
be diagnosed almost instantly. LMOS, 
introduced in January 1975, is one of 
the most recent developments by Bell 
Labs in their long history of contribu¬ 
tions to digital computing technology. 


HIGHUGHTS OF BELL LABS’ CONTRIBUTIONS TO DIGITAL COMPUTING TECHNOLOGY 


1937—Application of Boolean algebra to the design of 
logic circuitry. 

1939—Complex Number Calculator (Model I Relay Com¬ 
puter)—the first electrical digital computer built of 
relays. 

1941— OR circuit 

1942— AND circuit. 

1943— Model II Relay Computer—produced punched paper 
tapes for dynamic tests on fire-control equipment. 
Included error-checking capability. 

1944— Model III—relay computer for fire-control problems. 
Could hunt through papdr tapes for address of a 
block of data. 

1945— Model IV—relay computer for fire control problems 
for ship-mounted guns. Could calculate trigono¬ 
metric functions. 

1946— Model V—general purpose relay computer with two 
processors, permanently wired math tables, floating 
decimal point, conditional transfer capability. 

1948— AMA (Automatic Message Accounting)—relay com¬ 
puter for extracting billing information from phone 
calls. 

1949— Transistorized gating circuitry. 

1950— Model VI—last of line of relay computers. Solved 
telephone R&D problems. Had automatic second- 
trial feature, useful for unattended operation. 
Air-cushioned magnetic recording head. Widely ap¬ 
plied in commercial drum and disk storage systems. 

1956—LI and L2 (also known as Bell 1 and Bell 2) allowed 
users to communicate with computers in a language 
far simpler than basic machine language. 


1959— Leprechaun. Had 5500 transistors and 18,000 mem¬ 
ory cores in 15 cu. ft. volume. Ran on 160 watts. 

. Macro instructions; allowed programmers to add 
terms not included in the original programming 
language. 

1960— TPLOT, programs for producing computer-generated 
plots and graphs on microfilm. 

SNOBOL, a programming language for manipulat¬ 
ing strings of characters. 

1961— ALTRAN, language for making symbolic computa¬ 
tions on algebraic data. 

1963—GRAPHIC 1 system allowed user to communicate 
with a computer through a cathode-ray tube display. 
BLODI, program that allowed circuit designers to 
test Circuit designs without actually building them. 

1965—SWAP, universal assembler program containing 
many features previously available only in separate 
programs. 

Fast Fourier Transform algorithm for efficiently pro¬ 
cessing complex signals in real time. 

L 4 , programming language that allowed program¬ 
mers to manipulate complexly linked data, write 
faster-running programs, and use computer storage 
more efficiently. 

1968— GRAPHIC 2, advanced version of GRAPHIC 1 for 
use by drafting personnel, circuit designers and 
engineers. 

1969— UNIX, a time-shared software system for minicompu¬ 
ters. Used for such diverse purposes as text editing, 
general computing and switching system trouble 
reporting. 


82 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 





Creative Computing Feature Review.... 


v 


COMPUTER POWER 
AND HUMAN REASON 


Computer Power and Human Reason: From Judgement to Cal¬ 
culation , by Joseph Weizenbaum, W.H. Freeman & Co., 1976, 
300 pp., $9.95. 

Computer Power and Human Reason: From Judgement to 
Calculation is probably the most significant computer book 
issued in 1976, if not for the last decade. It is basically an ac¬ 
count of the impact of scientific technology on man’s self-image. 
It is a distinguished computer scientist’s probe of the limits of 
computer power and of scientific rationality itself. Above all, it 
is a defense of the sanctity of the human spirit. 

Presented here are three reviews of the book. The first one by 
Creative Computing Contributing Editor John Lees examines 
mostly the human freedom and ethical issues. The second by 
John McCarthy of Stanford focuses on inconsistencies in the 
book and defends various people and institutions that were 
attacked by Weizenbaum. In addition, McCarthy introduces 
some new issues on “What worries about computers are 
warranted?”. The third review by Creative Computing Reviews 
Editor Peter Kugel focuses on the questions “What should one 
think and what should one work on?” 


We expected to have Weizenbaum’s rebuttal to these reviews 
in this issue, but alas it did not arrive by the typeset deadline. 
Maybe next issue. 

The book itself is available through the Creative Computing 
Library for $9.95 plus 75c» shipping (USA) or $ 1.75 (elsewhere). 
Creative Computing Library, P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 
07960. 

If, after reading the book and reviews, you wish to correspond 
with Weizenbaum or any of the reviewers, here are their 
addresses. Please send a carbon of any correspondence to us at 
Creative , too. —DHA 


John Lees 
P.O. Box 1543 
Rolla, MO 65401 

Peter Kugel 

School of Management 
Boston College 


John McCarthy 

Artificial Intelligence Laboratory 
Stanford, CA 94305 

Joseph Weizenbaum 
Computer Science Lab, Room 522 
545 Technology Square 


Chestnut Hill, MA 02167 Cambridge, MA 02139 




A Return to Freedom 
and Dignity 

The twentieth century has been a century of the triumph of 
science and technology. The attempkhas been made to bring all 
things in our universe, if not under the control, at least within the 
scientific understanding of man. In 1971, with the publication of 
Beyond Freedom and Dignity , B.F. Skinner tried to reduce all 
of human affairs to the scope of a technology of behavior; a cul¬ 
mination of the viewpoint that technology can and should be 
used to exercise complete control of the world. In the realm of 
computer science, the Artificial Intelligentsia are claiming that 
man can be understood totally as an information processing 
system, an attitude which has lead to an increasingly mechanical 
view of man and society, with no place remaining for respon¬ 
sible ethics. In his book, Joseph Weizenbaum, Professor of 
Computer Science at MIT, explores two major questions: 
whether there is a difference between man and machine, and 
whether there are tasks for which computers ought not to be 
used, even if it is possible for computers to be used for those 
tasks. 

In the 1960’s Professor Weizenbaum composed a computer 
program, named ELIZA, which could hold a “conversation” in 
English with a human partner. Supplied with a “script” for play¬ 
ing psychiatrist, ELIZA, known as DOCTOR, became some¬ 
what famous as one of the first programs of its kind. As is too 
often the case, many people mistook a clever demonstration as 
evidence that the computer was a “person who could be 
appropriately and usefully addressed in intimate terms.” When 
some psychiatrists suggested that improved versions of ELIZA 
might do much of the work of a human therapist, Professor 
Weizenbaum was awakened to what Michael Polanyi has called 
“a scientific outlook that appears to have produced a 
mechanical conception of man,” and he was disturbed by the 
“enormously exaggerated attributions an even well-educated 
audience is capable of making, even strives to make, to a tech¬ 
nology it does not understand.” From these feelings and mis¬ 
givings came the desire for clarification which led to Computer 
Power and Human Reason. 


For some purposes, man can be thought 
of as an information processing system, 
but intelligent machines will not be 
human machines. 


Concerned with where computers fit into human society and 
with how the use of computers is changing our view of our¬ 
selves, Professor Weizenbaum believes that there are differ¬ 
ences between man and machine and that this means that there 
are certain tasks which machines ought not to perform. He 
points out that “however much intelligence computers may 
attain, now or in the future, theirs must always be an intelli¬ 
gence alien to genuine human problems and concerns.” He does 
not discount the possibility that we may someday succeed in 
constructing very intelligent machines, nor does he disagree 
that, for some purposes, man can be thought of as an informa¬ 
tion processing system, but intelligent machines will not be 
human machines; it is not right for machines to perform tasks 
which are in essence human, and it is demeaning to deal with 
humans in the same terms in which one deals with machines. 

Professor Weizenbaum does not give a rigorous argument for 
his belief that there are fundamental differences between man 
and machine, but he is not writing as a metaphysician. It is in any 
case doubtful that man will be mature enough to answer that 
question with finality for many thousands of years. We now 
know almost nothing about such things as human 
neurophysiology and what is really going on in the brain. The 
task of translating from one natural language to another, once 
believed simple, has proved to be astoundingly complex, 
requiring a machine which can deal with context and meaning as 
seen by human beings belonging to different cultures. It is 
obvious that machines with human capabilities, even if possible, 
are so far off as to be practically impossible. 

The real question is why do we want machines with human 
capabilities? Are we trying to bring about the Trafalmadorian 
situation of asking our machines what we are good for and re¬ 
ceiving the reply thaLwe are good for nothing since the machines 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


83 







If we treat each other like machines, if we 
act like machines, then we will become no 
longer human. 


can do everything a human can do and more? Professor Weizen¬ 
baum believes the desire to manufacture machines which can 
perform such human functions as therapist or judge to be odious 
and obscene: “The point is that there are some human functions 
for which computers ought not to be substituted. It has nothing 
to do with what computers can or cannot be made to do. 
Respect, understanding, and love are not technical problems.” 

This is the point he strives to make throughout the book and 
particularly in his concluding chapter. Not all of our problems 
have technical solutions. Human problems require human solu¬ 
tions, not because no other solutions are possible, but because 
we are in danger of losing our humanity if we do not act to retain 
our humanity. If we treat each other like machines, if we act like 
machines, then we will become no longer human. We are human 
not because we are born with hands and faces; we are human 
through our actions , through our ability to make eithical deci¬ 
sions of right and wrong, and because we can perceive higher 
purposes in our lives than being cogs in a machine. 

So many of the world’s ills can be traced to seeing the world as 
a machine and men as machines within a machine. That atti¬ 
tude turns forests into lumber, lakes into sewage, land into prop¬ 
erty, and people into consumers; it allows otherwise sane men to 
calmly do research leading to improved methods of killing 
people, without ever questioning the morality of their actions; it 
allows data processors to treat people like objects which must be 
standardized, optimized, and made to conform; it allows 
schools to ‘produce’ graduates for the job market who have 
skills, but lack the necessary understanding of the power and 
limitations of their tools. 

The mechanical conception of man all too often is used as an 
excuse for taking no action where action is needed. Too many 
see their lives as simply the inevitable result of a process which 
they cannot affect. This is a seriously dangerous attitude, and 
Professor Weizenbaum calls for people to rise above it and 
assert their freedom, their dignity, and their humanity: 

“It is a widely held but a grievously mistaken belief that civil 
courage finds exercise only in the context of world-shaking 
events. To the contrary, its most arduous exercise is often in 
those small contexts in which the challenge is to overcome the 
fears induced by petty concerns over career, over our relation¬ 
ships to those who appear to have power over us, over whatever 
may disturb the tranquility of our mundane existence. 

“If this book is to be seen as advocating anything, then let it be 
a call to this simple kind of courage. And, because this book is, 
after all, about computers, let that call be heard mainly by 
teachers of computer science.” 

John Lees 
Rolla, MO 


An Unreasonable Book* 


This moralistic and incoherent book uses computer science 
and technology as an illustration to support the view promoted 
by Lewis Mumford, Theodore Roszak, and Jacques Ellul, that 
science has led to an immoral view of man and the world. I am 
frightened by its arguments that certain research should not be 
done if it is based on or might result in an “obscene” picture of 
the world and man. Worse yet, the book’s notion of “obscenity” 
is vague enough to admit arbitrary interpretations by activist 
bureaucrats. 


♦This review is appearing simultaneously in the ACM SIGART Newsletter and 
originally “appeared” in a public file on the ARPA net. 


IT’S HARD TO FIGURE OUT 
WHAT HE REALLY BELIEVES ... 

Weizenbaum’s style involves making extreme statements 
which are later qualified by contradictory statements. There¬ 
fore, almost any quotation is out of context, making it difficult 
to summarize his contentions accurately. 

The following passages illustrate the difficulty: 

“In 1935, Michael Polanyi”, [British chemist and philosopher 
of science, was told by] “Nicolai Bukharin, one of the leading 
theoreticians of the Russian Communist party ,... [that]‘under 
socialism the conception of science pursued for its own sake 
would disappear, for the interests of scientists would spon¬ 
taneously turn to the problems of the current Five Year Plan. * 
Polanyi sensed then that ‘the scientific outlook appeared to have 
produced a mechanical conception of man and history in which 
there was no place for science itself ' And further that ‘this con¬ 
ception denied altogether any intrinsic power to thought and 
thus denied any grounds for claiming freedom of thought.’” - 
from page 1. Well, thafs clear enough; Weizenbaum favors 
freedom of thought and science and is worried about threats to 
them. But on page 265, we have 

“Scientists who continue to prattle on about ‘knowledge for 
its own sake’ in order to exploit that slogan for their self serving 
ends have detached science and knowledge from any contact 
with the real world”. Here Weizenbaum seems to be against pure 
science, i.e. research motivated solely by curiosity. We also have 

“With few exceptions, there have been no results, from over 
twenty years of artificial intelligence research, that have found 
their way into industry generally or into the computer industry 
in particular”. - page 229. This again suggests that industrial 
results are necessary to validate science. 

“Science promised man power. But as so often happens when 
people are seduced by promises of power ... the price actually 
paid is servitude and impotence”. This is from the book jacket. 
Presumably the publisher regards it as a good summary of the 
book’s main point. 

“I will, In what follows, try to maintain the position that there 
is nothing wrong with viewing man as an information processor 
(or indeed as anything else) nor with attempting to understand 
him from that perspective, providing, however, that we never act 
as though any single perspective can comprehend the whole 
man .” - page 140. We can certainly live with that, but 

“Not only has our unbounded feeding on science caused us to 
become dependent on it, but, as happens with many other drugs 
taken in increasing dosages, science has been gradually con¬ 
verted into a slow acting poison”. - page 13. These are qualified 

by 

“I argue for the rational use ofscience and technology, not for 
its mystification, let alone its abandonment”. - page 256. 

In reference to the proposal for a moratorium on certain ex¬ 
periments with recombinant DNA because they might be 
dangerous, we have “Theirs is certainly a step in the right direc¬ 
tion, and their initiative is to be applauded. Still, one may ask, 
why do they feel they have to give a reason for what they 
recommend at all? Is not the overriding obligation on men, 
including men of science, to exempt life itself from the madness 
of treating everything as an object, a sufficient reason, and one 
that does not even have to be spoken? Why does it have to be ex¬ 
plained? It would appear that even the noblest acts of the most 
well-meaning people are poisoned by the corrosive climate of 
values of our time.” Is Weizenbaum against all experimental 
biology or even all experiments with DNA? 1 would hesitate to 
conclude so from this quote; he may say the direct opposite 
somewhere else. 

“Those who know who and what they are do not need to ask 
what they should do. ” - page 273. Let me assure the reader that 
there is nothing in the book that offers any way to interpret this 
pomposity. The menace of such grandiloquent precepts is that 
they require a priesthood to apply them to particular cases, and 
would-be priests quickly crystallize around any potential center 
of power. A corollary of this is that people can be attacked for 
what they are rather than for anything specific they have done. 
The April 1976 issue of Ms. has a poignant illustration of this in 
an article about “trashing”. 

“An individual is dehumanized whenever he is treated as less 
than a whole person”. - page 266. This is also subject to priestly 
interpretation as in the encounter group movement. 

“The first kind [of computer application] I would call simply 
obscene. These are ones whose very contemplation ought to give 


84 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 




rise to feelings of disgust in every civilized person. The proposal 
I have mentioned, that an animal's visual system and brain be 
coupled to computers, is an example. It represents an attack on 
life itself One must wonder what must have happened to the 
proposers' perception of life, hence to their perceptions of them¬ 
selves as part of the continuum of life, that they can even think of 
such a thing, let alone advocated it". No argument is offered that 
might be answered, and no attempt is made to define criteria of 
acceptability. 1 think Weizenbaum and the scientists who have 
praised the book may be surprised at some of the repressive uses 
to which the book will be put. However, they will be able to 
point to passages in the book with quite contrary sentiments, so 
the repression won't be their fault. 

BUT HERE’S A TRY AT SUMMARIZING 

As these inconsistent passages show, it isn't easy to 
determine Weizenbaum’s position, but the following seem to be 
the book’s main points. 

1. Computers cannot be made to reason usefully about 
human affairs. This is supported by quoting over-optimistic 
predictions by computer scientists and giving examples of non¬ 
verbal human communication. However, Weizenbaum doesn’t 
name any specific task that computers cannot carry out, 
because he wishes "to avoid the unnecessary, interminable, and 
ultimately sterile exercise of making a catalogue of what 
computers will and will not be able to do, either here and now 
or ever." It is also stated that human and machine reasoning 
are incomparable and that the sensory experience of a human 
js essential for human reasoning. 

2. There are tasks that computers should not be pro¬ 
grammed to do. Some are tasks Weizenbaum thinks shouldn’t 
be done at all—mostly for new left reasons. One may quarrel 
with his politics, and 1 do, but obviously computers shouldn’t do 
what shouldn’t be done. However, Weizenbaum also objects to 
computer hookups to animal brains and computer conducted 
psychiatric interviews. As to the former, I couldn’t tell whether 
he is an anti-vivisectionist, but he seems to have additional 
reasons for calling them “obscene”. The objection to computers 
doing psychiatric interviews also has a component beyond the 
conviction that they would necessarily do it badly. Thus he says, 
“ What can the psychiatrist's image of his patient be when he sees 
himself, as a therapist, not as an engaged human being acting as 
a healer, but as an information processor following rules, etc.?" 
This seems like the renaissance era religious objections to 
dissecting the human body that came up when science revived. 
Even the Popes eventually convinced themselves that regarding 
the body as a machine for scientific or medical purposes was 
quite compatible with regarding it as the temple of the soul. 
Recently they have taken the same view of studying mental 
mechanisms for scientific or psychiatric purposes. 

3. Science has led people to a wrong view of the world and of 
life. The view is characterized as mechanistic, and the example 
of clockwork is given. (It seems strange for a computer scientist 
to give this example, because the advance of the computer model 
over older mechanistic models is that computers can and clock¬ 
work can’t make decisions.) Apparently analysis of a living sys¬ 
tem as composed of interacting parts rather than treating it as an 
unanalyzed whole is bad. 

4. Science is not the sole or even main source of reliable 
general knowledge. However, he doesn’t propose any other 
sources of knowledge or say what the limits of scientific knowl¬ 
edge is except to characterize certain thoughts as “obscene”. 

5. Certain people and institutions are attacked. These include 
the Department of “Defense” (sic), Psychology Today , the New 
York Times, Data Bank, compulsive computer programmers, 
Kenneth Colby, Marvin Minsky, Roger Schank, Allen Newell, 
Herbert Simon, J.W. Forrester, Edward Fredkin, B.F. Skinner, 
Warren McCulloch (until he was old), Laplace and Leibniz. 

6. Certain political and social views are taken for granted. 
The view that U.S. policy in Vietnam was “murderous” is used to 
support an attack on “logicality” (as opposed to “rationality”) 
and the view of science as a “slow acting poison”. The phrase "It 
may be that the people's cultivated and finally addictive hunger 
for private automobiles ..." (p.30) makes psychological, 
sociological, political, and technological presumptions all in one 
phrase. Similarly, "Men could instead choose to have truly safe 
automobiles, decent television, decent housing for everyone, or 
comfortable, safe, and widely distributed mass transportation 
presumes wide agreement about what these things are, what is 
technologically feasible, what the effects of changed policies 
would be, and what activities aimed at changing people’s taste 
are permissible for governments. 

SEP-OCT 1 976 


THE ELIZA EXAMPLE 

Perhaps the most interesting part of the book is the account of 
his own program ELIZA that parodies Rogerian non-directive 
psychotherapy and his anecdotal account of how some people 
ascribe intelligence and personality to it. In my opinion, it is 
quite natural for people who don’t understand the notion of 
algorithm to imagine that a computer computes analogously to 
the way a human reasons. This leads to the idea that accurate 
computation entails correct reasoning and even to the idea that 
computer malfunctions are analogous to human neuroses and 
psychoses. Actually, programming a computer to draw interest¬ 
ing conclusions from premises is very difficult and only limited 
success has been attained. However, the effect of these natural 
misconceptions shouldn’t be exaggerated; people readily under¬ 
stand the truth when it is explained, especially when it applies to 
a matter that concerns them. In particular, when an executive 
excuses a mistake by saying that he placed excessive faith in a 
computer,, a certain skepticism is called for. 

Colby’s (1973) study is interesting in this connection, but the 
interpretation below is mine. Colby had psychiatrists interview 
patients over a teletype line and also had them interview his 
PARRY program that simulates a paranoid. Other psychiatrists 
were asked to decide from the transcripts whether the interview 
was with a man or with a program, and they did no better than 
chance. However, since PARRY is incapable of the simplest 
causal reasoning, if you ask, “How do you know the people 
following you are Mafia” and get a reply that they look like 
Italians, this must be a man not PARRY. Curiously, it is easier 
to imitate (well enough to fool a psychiatrist) the emotional side 
of a man than his intellectual side. Probably the subjects 
expected the machine to have more logical ability, and this 
expectation contributed to their mistakes. Alas, random selec¬ 
tion from the directory of the Association for Computing 
Machinery did no better. 

It seems to me that ELIZA and PARRY show only that 
people, including psychiatrists, often have to draw conclusions 
on slight evidence, and are therefore easily fooled. If I am right, 
two sentences of instruction would allow them to do better. 

In his 1966 paper on ELIZA (cited as 1965), Weizenbaum 
writes, 

"One goal for an augmented ELIZA program is thus a system 
which already has access to a store of information about some 
aspect of the real world and which, by means of conversational 
interaction with people, can reveal both what it knows, i.e. 
behave as an information retrieval system, and where its 
knowledge ends and needs to be augmented. Hopefully the 
augmentation of its knowledge will also be a direct consequence 
of its conversational experience. It is precisely the prospect that 
such a program will converse with many people and learn 
something from each of them which leads to the hope that it will 
prove an interesting and even useful conversational partner." 
Too bad he didn’t successfully pursue this goal; no-one else has. 

I think success would have required a better understanding of 
formalization than is exhibited in the book. 

WHAT DOES HE SAY ABOUT COMPUTERS? 

While Weizenbaum’s main conclusions concern science in 
general and are moralistic in character, sorpe of his remarks 
about computer science and AI are worthy of comment. 

1. He concludes that since a computer cannot have the 
experience of a man, it cannot understand a man. There are 
three points to be made in reply. First, humans share each 
other’s experiences and those of machines or animals only to a 
limited extent. In particular, men and women have different 
experiences. Nevertheless, it is common in literature for a good 
writer to show greater understanding of the experience of the 
opposite sex than a poorer writer of that sex. Second, the notion 
of experience is poorly understood; if we understood it better, 
we could reason about whether a machine could have a 
simulated or vicarious experience normally confined to humans. 
Third, what we mean by understanding is poorly understood, so 
we don’t yet know how to define whether a machine understands 
something or not. . 

2. Like his predecessor critics of artificial intelligence, Taube, 
Dreyfus and Lighthill, Weizenbaum is impatient, implying that 
if the problem hasn’t been solved in twenty years, it is time to 
give up. Genetics took about a century to go from Mendel to the 
genetic code for proteins, and still has a long way to go before we 
will fully understand the genetics and evolution of intelligence 
and behavior. Artificial intelligence may be just as difficult. My 


85 





What would it mean for a computer to 
hope for love? The answer depends on 
being able to formalize (not simulate) 
the phenomena in question. 

current answer to the question of when machines will reach 
human-level intelligence is that a precise calculation shows that 
we are between 1.7 and 3.1 Einsteins and .3 Manhattan Projects 
away from the goal. However, the current research is producing 
the information on which the Einstein will base himself and is 
producing useful capabilities all the time. 

3. The book confuses computer simulation of a phenomenon 
with its formalization in logic. A simulation is only one kind of 
formalization and not often the most useful — even to a 
computer. In the first place, logical and mathematical 
formalizations can use partial information about a system 
insufficient for a simulation. Thus the law of conservation of 
energy tells us much about possible energy conversion systems 
before we define even one of them. Even when a simulation 
program is available, other formalizations are necessary even to 
make good use of the simulation. This review isn’t the place for a 
full explanation of the relations between these concepts. 

Like Punch's famous curate’s egg, the book is good in parts. 
Thus it raises the following interesting issues: 

1. What would it mean for a computer to hope or be 
desperate for love? Answers to these questions depend on being 
able to formalize (not simulate) the phenomena in question. My 
guess is that adding a notion of hope to an axiomatization of 
belief and wanting might not be difficult. The study of 
propositional attitudes in philosophical logic points in that 
direction. 

2. Do differences in experience make human and machine 
intelligence necessarily so different that it is meaningless to ask 
whether a machine can be more intelligent than a machine? My 
opinion is that comparison will turn out to be meaningful. After 
all, most people have no doubt that humans are more intelligent 
than turkeys. Weizenbaum’s examples of the dependence of 
human intelligence on sensory abilities seem even refutable, 
because we recognize no fundamental difference in humanness 
in people who are severely handicapped sensorily, e.g. the deaf, 
dumb and blind or paraplegics. 


IN DEFENSE OF THE UNJUSTLY ATTACKED - 
SOME OF WHOM ARE INNOCENT 

Here are defenses of Weizenbaum’s targets. They are not 
guaranteed to entirely suit the defendees. 

Weizenbaum’s conjecture that the Defense Department 
supports speech recognition research in order to be able to 
snoop on telephone conversations is biased, baseless, false, and 
seems motivated by political malice. The committee of scientists 
that proposed the project advanced quite different con¬ 
siderations, and the high officials who made the final decisions 
are not ogres. Anyway their other responsibilities leave them no 
time for complicated and devious considerations. I put this one 
first, because I think the failure of many scientists to defend the 
Defense Department against attacks they know are unjustified, 
is unjust in itself, and furthermore has harmed the country. 

Weizenbaum doubts that computer speech recognition will 
have cost-effective applications beyond snooping on phone 
conversations. He also says, “There is no question in my mind 
that there is no pressing human problem that will be more easily 
solved because such machines exist.” 1 worry more about 
whether the programs can be made to work before the sponsor 
loses patience. Once they work, costs will come down. Winograd 
pointed out to me that many possible household applications of 
computers may not be feasible without some computer speech 
recognition. One needs to think both about how to solve 
recognized problems and about opportunities to put new 
technological possibilities to good use. The telephone was not 
invented by a committee considering already identified 
problems of communication. 

Referring to Psychology Today as a cafeteria simply excites 
the snobbery of those who would like to consider their 
psychological knowledge to be above the popular level. So far as 


There is a whole chapter attacking 
“compulsive computer programmers” or 
“hackers.” This mythical beast lives in 
the computer laboratory, is an expert on 
all the ins and outs of the time-sharing 
system, elaborates the time-sharing 
system with arcane features that he never 
documents, and is always changing the 
system before he even fixes the bugs in 
the previous version. 


I know, professional and academic psychologists welcome the 
opportunity offered by Psychology Today to explain their ideas 
to a wide public. They might even buy a cut-down version of 
Weizenbaum’s book if he asks them nicely. Hmm, they might 
even buy this review. (No, they didn’t.) 

Weizenbaum has invented a New York Times Data Bank 
different from the one operated by the New York Times — and 
possibly better. The real one stores abstracts written by humans 
and doesn’t use the tapes intended for typesetting machines. As a 
result the user has access only to abstracts and cannot search on 
features of the stories themselves, i.e. he is at the mercy of what 
the abstractors thought was important at the time. 

Using computer programs as psychotherapists, as Colby 
proposed, would be moral if it would cure people. Unfortunate¬ 
ly, computer science isn’t up to it, and maybe the psychiatrists 
aren’t either. 

I agree with Minsky in criticizing the reluctance of art 
theorists to develop formal theories. George Birkhoffs formal 
theory was probably wrong, but he shouldn’t have been 
criticized for trying. The problem seems very difficult to me, and 
I have made no significant progress in responding a challenge 
from Arthur Koestler to tell how a computer program might 
make or even recognize jokes. Perhaps some reader of this 
review might have more success. 

There is a whole chapter attacking “compulsive computer 
programmers" or “hackers.” This mythical beast lives in the 
computer laboratory, is an expert on all the ins and outs of the 
time-sharing system, elaborates the time-sharing system with 
arcane features that he never documents, and is always changing 
the system before he even fixes the bugs in the previous version. 
All these vices exist, but I can’t think of any individual who 
combines them, and people generally outgrow them. As a 
laboratory director, I have to protect the interests of people who 
program only part time against tendencies to over-complicate 
the facilities. People who spend all their time programming and 
who exchange information by word of mouth sometimes have to 
be pressed to make proper writeups. The other side of the issue is 
that we professors of computer science sometimes lose our 
ability to write actual computer programs through lack of 
practice and envy younger people who can spend full time in the 
laboratory. The phenomenon is well known in other sciences 
and in other human activities. 

Weizenbaum attacks the Yale computer linguist, Roger 
Schank, as follows — the inner quotes are from Schank “ What is 

contributed when it is asserted that ‘there exists a conceptual 
base that is interlingual, onto which linguistic structures in a 
given language map during the understanding process and out 
of vi’hich such structures are created during generation (of 
linguistic utterances)? Nothing at all. For the term ‘conceptual 
base’ could perfectly well be replaced by the word *something .’ 
And who could argue with that so-transformed statement?” 
Weizenbaum goes on to say that the real scientific problem 
“remains as untouched as ever.” On the next page he says that 
unless the “Schank-like scheme” understood the sentence “Will 
you come to dinner with me this evening?” to mean “a shy young 
man’s desperate longing for love, then the sense in which the 
system “understands” is “about as weak as the sense in which 
ELIZA “understood.” This good example raises interesting 
issues and seems to call for some distinctions. Full understan- 

CREATIVE COMPUTING 


I 









ding of the sentence indeed results in knowing about the young 
man’s desire for love, but it would seem that there is a useful 
lesser level of understanding in which the machine would know 
only that he would like her to come to dinner. 

Contrast Weizenbaum’s demanding, more-human-than-thou 
attitude to Schank and Winograd with his respectful and even 
obsequious attitude to Chomsky. We have “The linguist’s first 
task is therefore to write grammars, that is, sets of rules, of 
particular languages, grammars capable of characterizing all 
and only the grammatically admissible sentences of those 
languages, and then to postulate principles from which crucial 
features of all such grammars can be deduced. That set of 
principles would then constitute a universal grammar. 
Chomsky’s hypothesis is, to put it another way, that the rules of 
such a universal grammar would constitute a kind of projective 
description of important aspects of the human mind.” There is 
nothing here demanding that the universal grammar take into 
account the young man’s desire for love. As far as I can see, 
Chomsky is just as much a rationalist as we artificial intelligent¬ 
sia. 

Chomsky’s goal of a universal grammar and Schank’s goal of 
a conceptual base are similar, except that Schank’s ideas are 
further developed, and the performance of his students’ 
programs can be compared with reality. I think they will require 
drastic revision and may not be on the right track at all, but then 
I am pursuing a rather different line of research concerning how 
to represent the basic facts that an intelligent being must know 
about the world. My idea is to start from epistemology rather 
than from language, regarding their linguistic representation as 
secondary. This approach has proved difficult, has attracted few 
practitioners, and has led to few computer programs, but 1 still 
think it’s right. 

Weizenbaum approves of the Chomsky school’s haughty 
attitude towards Schank, Winograd and other AI based 
language researchers. On page 184, he states, “many linguists, 
for example, Noam Chomsky, believe that enough thinking 
about language remains to be done to occupy them usefully for 
yet a little while, and that any effort to convert the present 
theories into computer models would, if attempted by the people 
best qualified, be a diversion from the main task. And they 
rightly see no point to spending any of their energies studying 
the work of the hackers.” 

This brings the chapter on “compulsive computer 
programmers” alias “hackers” into a sharper focus. Chomsky’s 
latest book Reflections on Language makes no reference to the 
work of Winograd, Schank, Charniak, Wilks, Bobrow or 
William Woods to name only a few of those who have developed 
large computer systems that work with natural language and 
who write papers on the semantics of natural language. The 
actual young computer programmers who call themselves 
hackers and who come closest to meeting Weizenbaum’s 
description don’t write papers on natural language. So it seems 
that the hackers whose work need not be studied are Winograd, 
Schank, et. al. who are professors and senior scientists. The 
Chomsky school may be embrassed by the fact that it has only 
recently arrived at the conclusion that the semantics of natural 
language is more fundamental than its syntax, while AI based 
researchers have been pursuing this line for fifteen years. 

The outside observer should be aware that to some extent this 
is a pillow fight within M.I.T. Chomsky and Halle are not to be 
dislodged from M.I.T. and neither is Minsky — whose students 
have pioneered the AI approach to natural language. Schank is 
quite secure at Yale. Weizenbaum also has tenure. However, 
some assistant professorships in linguistics may be at stake, 
especially at M.I.T. 

Allen Newell and Herbert Simon are criticized for being 
overoptimistic and are considered morally defective for 
attempting to describe humans as difference-reducing machines. 
Simon’s view that the human is a simple system in a complex 
environment is singled out for attack. In my opinion, they were 
overoptimistic, because their GPS model on which they put 
their bets wasn’t good enough. Maybe Newell’s current 
production system models will work out better. As to whether 
human mental structure will eventually turn out to be simple, I 
vacillate but incline to the view that it will turn out to be one of 
the most complex biological phenomena. 

I regard Forrester’s models as incapable of taking into 
account qualitative changes, and the world models they have 
built as defective even in their own terms, because they leave out 


saturation-of-demand effects that cannot be discovered by f 
curve-fitting as long as a system is rate-of-expansion limited. 
Moreover, I don’t accept his claim that his models arp better 
suited than the unaided mind in “interpreting how social systems 
behave,” but Weizenbaum’s sarcasm on page 246 is unconvin¬ 
cing. He quotes Forrester, “[desirable modes of behavior of the 
social system] seem to be possible only if we have a good 
understanding of the system dynamics and are willing to endure 
the self-discipline and pressures that must accompany the 
desirable mode. ” Weizenbaum comments, “There is undoubted¬ 
ly some interpretation of the words ' system’ and 4 dynamics’ 
which would lend a benign meaning to this observation. ” Sorry, 
but it looks ok to me provided one is suitably critical of 
Forrester’s proposed social goals and the possibility of making 
the necessary assumptions and putting them into his models. 

Skinner’s behaviorism that refuses to assign reality to people’s 
internal state seems wrong to me, but we can’t call him immoral 
for trying to convince us of what he thinks is true. 

Weizenbaum quotes Edward Fredkin, former director of 
Project MAC, and the late Warren McCulloch of M.I.T. 
without giving their names, pp. 241 and 240. Perhaps he thinks a 
few puzzles will make the book more interesting, and this is so. 
Fredkin’s plea for research in automatic programming seems to 
overestimate the’extent to which our society currently relies on 
computers for decisions. It also overestimates the ability of the 
faculty of a particular university to control the uses to which 
technology will be put, and it underestimates the difficulty of 
making knowledge based systems of practical use. Weizenbaum 
is correct in pointing out that Fredkin doesn’t mention the 
existence of genuine conflicts in society, but onlv the new left 
sloganeering elsewhere in the book gives a hint as to what he 
thinks they are and how he proposes to resolve them. 

As for the quotation from (McCulloch 1956), Minsky tells me 
“this is a brave attempt to find a dignified sense of freedom 
within the psychological determinism morass.” Probably this 
can be done better now, but Weizenbaum wrongly implies that 
McCulloch’s 1956 effort is to his moral discredit. 

Finally, Weizenbaum attributes to me two statements — both 
from oral presentations — which I cannot verify. One of them is 
“The only reason we have not yet succeeded in simulating every 
aspect of the real world is that we have been lacking a sufficiently 
powerful logical calculus ; Iam working on that problem.” This 
statement doesn’t express my present opinion or my opinion in 
1973 when I am alleged to have expressed it in a debate, and no- 
one has been able to find it in the video-tape of the debate. 

We can’t simulate “every aspect of the real world,” because the 
initial state information is never available, the laws of motion 
are imperfectly known, and the calculations for a simulation are 
too extensive. Moreover, simulation wouldn’t necessarily 
answer our questions. Instead, we must find out how to 
represent in the memory of a computer the infornfetion about 
the real world that is actually available to a machine or organism 
with given sensory capability, and also how to represent a means 
of drawing those useful conclusions about the effects of courses 
of action that can be correctly inferred from the attainable 
information. Having a sufficiently powerful logical calculus is 
an important part of this problem — but one of the easier parts. 

The second quotation from me is the rhetorical question, 
" What do judges know that we cannot tell a computer. ” I’ll stand 
on that if we make it “eventually tell” and especially if we require 
that it be something that one human can reliably teach another. 

A SUMMARY OF POLEMICAL SINS 

The speculative sections of the book contain numerous 
dubious little theories, such as this one about the dehumanizing 
effect of the invention of the clock: “The clock had created 
literally a new reality; and that is what I meant when I said 
earlier that the trick man turned that prepared the scent for the 
rise of modern science was nothing less than the transformation 
of nature and of his perception of reality. It is important to 
realize that this newly created reality was and remains an 
improverished version of the older one, for it rests on a rejection 
of those direct experiences that formed the basis for, and indeed 
constituted the old reality. The feeling of hunger was rejected as 
a stimulus for eating; instead one ate when an abstract model 
had achieved a certain state, i.e. when the hand of a clock 
pointed to certain marks on the clock’s face (the 
anthropomorphism here is highly significant too), and similarly 
for signals for sleep and rising, and so on. ” 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


87 




However, when home terminals become 
available, social changes of the 
magnitude of those produced by the 
telephone and automobile will occur. 

This idealization of primitive life is simply thoughtless. Like 
modern man, primitive man ate when the food was ready, and 
primitive man probably had to start preparing it even further in 
advance. Like modern man, primitive man lived in families 
whose members are no more likely to become hungry all at once 
than are the members of a present family. 

I get the feeling that in toppling this microtheory 1 am not 
playing the game; the theory is intended only to provide an 
atmosphere, and like the reader of a novel, 1 am supposed to 
suspend disbelief. But the contention that science has driven us 
from a psychological Garden of Eden depends heavily on such 
word pictures. 

By the way, I recall from my last sabbatical at M.l.T. that the 
feeling of hunger is more often the direct social stimulus for 
eating for the “hackers” deplored in Chapter 4 than it could have 
been for primitive man. Often on a crisp New England night, 
even as the clock strikes three, 1 hear them call to one another, 
messages flash on the screens, a flock of hackers magically 
gathers, and the whole picturesque assembly rushes chattering 
off to Chinatown. 

1 find the book substandard as a piece of polemical writing in 
the following respects: 

1. The author has failed to work out his own positions on the 
issues he discusses. Making an extreme statement in one place 
and a contradictory statement in another is no substitute for 
trying to take all the factors into account and reach a considered 
position. Unsuspicious readers can come away with a great 
variety of views, and the book can be used to support 
contradictory positions. 

2. The computer linguists — Winograd, Schank, et. al.- 

are denigrated as hackers and compulsive computer program¬ 
mers by innuendo. 

3. One would like to know more precisely what biological 
and psychological experiments and computer applications he 
finds acceptable. Reviewers have already drawn a variety of 
conclusions on this point. 

4. The terms “authentic,” “obscene,” and “dehumanization” 
are used as clubs. This is what mathematicians call “proof by 
intimidation.” 

5. The book encourages a snobbery that has no need to argue 
for its point of view but merely utters code words, on hearing 
which the audience is supposed to applaud or hiss as the case 
may be. The New Scientist reviewer and Daniel McCracken in 
Datamation certainly salivate in most of the intended places. 

6. Finally, when moralizing is both vehement and vague, it 
invites authoritarian abuse either by existing authority or by 
new political movements. Imagine, if you can, that this book 
were the bible of some bureaucracy, e.g. an Office of Technology 
Assessment, that acquired power over the computing or 
scientific activities of a university, state, or country. Suppose 
Weizenbaum’s slogans were combined with the bureaucratic 
ethic that holds that any problem can be solved by a law 
forbidding something and a bureaucracy of eager young lawyers 
to enforce it. Postulate further a vague Humane Research Act 
and a “public interest” organization with more eager young 
lawyers suing to get judges to legislate new interpretations of the 
Act. One can see a laboratory needing more lawyers than 
scientists and a Humane Research Administrator capable of 
forbidding or requiring almost anything. 

1 see no evidence that Weizenbaum forsees his work being • 
used in this way; he doesn’t use the phrase laissez innover which 
is the would-be science bureaucrat’s analogue of the economist’s 
laissez faire, and he never uses the indefinite phrase “it should be 
decided” which is a common expression of the bureaucratic 
ethic. However, he has certainly given his fellow computer 
scientists at least some reason to worry about potential tyranny. 

Let me conclude this section with a quotation from Andrew 
D. White, the first president of Cornell University, that seems 
applicable to the present situation — not only in computer 
science, but also in biology. — ‘7/2 all modern history, 
interference with science in the supposed interest of religion, no 


matter how conscientious such interference may have been, has 
resulted in the direst evils both to religion and to science, and 
invariably; and, on the other hand; all untrammelled scientific 
investigation, no matter how dangerous to religion some of its 
stages may have seemed for the time to be, has invariably 
resulted in the highest good both of religion and of science ” 
Substitute morality for religion and the parallel is clear. 
Frankly, the feebleness of the reaction to attacks on scientific 
freedom worries me more than the strength of the attacks. 


WHAT WORRIES ABOUT COMPUTERS ARE 
WARRANTED? 

Grumbling about Weizenbaum’s mistakes and moralizing is 
not enough. Genuine worries prompted the book, and many 
people share them. Here are the genuine concerns that I can 
identify and the opinions of one computer scientist about their 
resolution: What is the danger that the computer will lead to a 
false model of man? What is the danger that computers will be 
misused? Can human-level artificial intelligence be achieved? 
What, if any, motivational characteristics will it have? Would 
the achievement of artificial intelligence be good or bad for 
humanity? ^ 

1. Does the computer model lead to a false model of man? 
Historically, the mechanistic model of the life and the world 
followed animistic models in accordance with which, priests and 
medicine men tried to correct malfunctions of the environment 
and man by inducing spirits to behave better. Replacing them by 
mechanistic models replaced shamanism by medicine. Roszak 
explicity would like to bring these models back, because he finds 
them more “human,” but he ignores the sad fact that they don’t 
work, because the world isn’t constructed that way. The pre¬ 
computer mechanistic models of the mind were, in my opinion, 
unsuccessful, but I think the psychologists pursuing com¬ 
putational models of mental processes may eventually develop a 
really beneficial psychiatry. 

Philosophical and moral thinking hasn’t yet found a model of 
man that relates human beliefs and purposes to the physical 
world in a plausible way. Some of the unsuccessful attempts 
have been more mechanistic than others. Both mechanistic and 
non-mechanistic models have led to great harm when made the 
basis of political ideology, because they have allowed tortuous 
reasoning to justify actions that simple human intuition regards 
as immoral. In my opinion, the relation between beliefs, 
purposes and wants to the physical world is a complicated but 
ultimately solvable problem. Computer models can help solve it, 
and can provide criteria that will enable us to reject false 
solutions. The latter is more important for now, and computer 
models are already hastening the decay of dialectical 
materialism in the Soviet Union. 

2. What is the danger that computers will be misused? Up to 
now, computers have been just another labor-saving 
technology. 1 don’t agree with Weizenbaum’s acceptance of the 
claim that our society would have been inundated by paper work 
without computers. Without computers, people would work a 
little harder and get a little less for their work. However, when 
home terminals become available, social changes of the 
magnitude of those produced by the telephone and automobile 
will occur. I have discussed them elsewhere, and I think they will 
be good — as were the changes produced by the automobile and 
the telephone. Tyranny comes from control of the police 
coupled with a tyrannical ideology; data banks will be a minor 
convenience. No dictatorship yet has been overthrown for lack 
of a data bank. 

One’s estimate of whether technology will work out well in the 
future is correlated with one’s view of how it worked out in the 
past. 1 think it has worked out well — e.g. cars were not a 
mistake — and am optimistic about the future. I feel that much 
current ideology is a combination of older anti-scientific and 
anti-technological views with new developments in the political 
technology of instigating and manipulating fears and guilt 
feelings. 

3. What motivations will artificial intelligence have? It will 
have what motivations we choose to give it. Those who finally 
create it should start by motivating it only to answer questions 
and should have the sense to ask for full pictures of the 
consequences of alternate actions rather than simply how to 
achieve a fixed goal, ignoring possible side-effects. Giving it 
human motivational structure with its shifting goals sensitive to 


88 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 











The achievement of above-human-level 
artificial intelligence will open to 
humanity an incredible variety of op¬ 
tions. 

physical state would require a deliberate effort beyond that 
required to make it behave intelligently. 

4. Will artificial intelligence be good or bad? Here we are 
talking about machines with the same range of intellectual 
abilities as are possessed by humans. However, the science 
fiction vision of robots with almost precisely the ability of a 
human is quite unlikely, because the next generation of 
computers or even hooking computers together would produce 
an intelligence that might be qualitatively like that of a human, 
but thousands of times faster. What would it be like to be able to 
put a hundred years thought into every decision? 1 think it is 
impossible to say whether qualitatively better answer would be 
obtained; we will have to try it and see. 

The achievement of above-human-level artificial intelligence 
will open to humanity an incredible variety of options. We 
cannot now fully envisage what these options will be, but it 
seems apparent that one of the first uses of high-level artificial 
intelligence will be to determine the consequences of alternate 
policies governing its use. 1 think the most likely variant is that 
man will use artificial intelligence to transform himself, but once 
its properties and the consequences of its use are known, we may 
decide not to use it. Science would then be a sport like mountain 
climbing; the point would be to discover the facts about the 
world using some stylized limited means. I wouldn't like that, 
but once man is confronted by the actuality of full AI, they may 
find our opinion as relevant to them as we would find the 
opinion of Pithecanthropus about whether subsequent evolu¬ 
tion took the right course. 

5. What shouldn't computers be programmed to do. 

Obviously one shouldn’t program computers to do things that 
shouldn’t be done. Moreover, we shouldn’t use programs to 
mislead ourselves or other people. Apart from that, I find none 
of Weizenbaum’s examples convincing. However, I doubt the 
advisability of making robots with human-like motivational and 
emotional structures that might have rights and duties 
independently of humans. Moreover, I think it might be 
dangerous to make a machine that evolved intelligence by 
responding to a program of rewards and punishments unless its 
trainers understand the intellectual and motivational structure 
being evolved. 

All these questions merit and have received more extensive 
discussion, but 1 think the only rational policy now is to expect 
the people confronted by the problem to understand their best 
interests better than we now can. Even if full AI were to arrive 
next year, this would be right. Correct decisions will require an 
intense effort that cannot be mobilized to consider an 
eventuality that is still remote. Imagine asking the presidential 
candidates to debate on TV what each of them would do about 
each of the forms that full AI might~take. 

Reference: 

McCulloch, W.S. (1956) Toward some circuitry of ethical 
robots or an observational science of the genesis of social 
evaluation in the mind-like behavior of artifacts. Acta 
Biotheoretica, XI, parts 3/4, 147-156 

John McCarthy 
Stanford, California 


He worries that the power of the 
computer reinforces the widespread view 
that science is all powerful and that all 
unscientific ways of knowing are, there¬ 
fore, suspect, fuzzy, vague, and not 
worthy of our trust. 


The Computer’s Role 
vs Man’s Role 

This book is about computers and their impact on human 
beings, but don’t let that put you off. This is not another one of 
those dreary, guided tours through computerland or one of 
those windy sermons on the social significance of the (Gasp!) 
computer., Jhis is. an important book about an important 
subject. Why, Weizenbaum asks in this book, are we so ready to 
take the computer so seriously as a complete model for the 
human mind? And what, if any, are the dangers in doing so? 
Whether or not one agrees with his answers, they are important 
answers, well presented. 

Weizenbaum tells us that he wrote this book as a result of the 
reactions he observed to the work for which he probably is best 
known, namely a computer program called ELIZA and her 
possibly even better known “son” the DOCTOR. Both of these 
programs (the latter being the former provided with a script that 
many find amusing) are based on some rather clever ideas. One 
of the most important of these is one that we have probably all 
used—the idea that you can keep your side of a conversation 
going without listening to the other by either repeating some of 
the other person’s words or by occasionally muttering 
appropriate trivialities. The DOCTOR program uses this trick 
to fake what we might call a Rogerian psychiatrist who then en¬ 
courages responses from patients by using something akin to 
(but very different from) this conversationalist trick. What 
surprised Weizenbaum, and led him to write this book, was that 
people were so eager to take this rather trivial program 
seriously. Some psychiatrists (e.g. Colby) took it to be a model, 
not only of the psychiatrist, but also of his patient. (In this con¬ 
nection, you might be interested in the rather amusing response 
of Weizenbaum’s to Colby’s simulation or paranoia in a letter in 
a recent issue of “The Communications of the ACM.”) Some 
people interacting with the program rapidly began to take it 
seriously and the program even passed a version of Turing’s test 
when a majority of the subjects in an experiment by Quarton 
and others said that, when conversing with Weizenbaum’s pro¬ 
gram, they thought that they had been dealing with a real 
person. And other people began to think (as many had, years 
earlier, after IBM demonstrated “machine translation” at the 
1939 New York World’s Fair) that the problem of getting 
machines to handle natural languages had, to all intents and 
purposes, been solved. 

These responses led Weizenbaum to ask why people were so 
ready to accept this very simple model of their own (and their 
friends’) minds as complete. This book is Weizenbaum’s attempt 
to answer this question. 

Weizenbaum recognizes that people’s tendency to think of 
themselves as machines of one sort or another is nothing very 
new nor, necessarily, anything very bad. We understand 
machines that we build better than the minds that we have and 
the similarities between our minds and machines can help us to 
better understand the former. What worries Weizenbaum is not 
that we use the computer as a model for ourselves but that we 
may be taking it too seriously in this role. 

The introduction of the computing machine, with its 
marvelous ability to manipulate symbols rapidly and accurately 
has simply accelerated man’s tendency to take a “rationalistic 
view of his society and a mechanistic view of himself.” Weizen¬ 
baum suggests that the question of “whether or not human 
thought is entirely computable” is merely a sharpening up of a 
question, that has attracted attention for millenia—namely 
whether or not every aspect of human thought is reducible to 
some sort of precise formalism. Weizenbaum then addresses two 
basic questions: “Can human thought be reduced to calculation 
(or computation)?” and “Even if it can be, ought it to be?” He 
worries that the power of the computer reinforces the wide¬ 
spread view that science is all powerful and that all unscientific 
ways of knowing are, therefore, suspect, fuzzy, vague, and not 
worthy of our trust. 

Weizenbaum begins by considering how people tend to think 
of their tools as a metaphor for their world. The view that man is 
some kind of machine predates the invention of the computer. 
But the impact of the computer as methaphor for the mind has 


SEP-OCT 1 976 


89 











Weizenbaum points out that, contrary to 
what many have claimed, to be able to 
program something for a computer is not 
the same thing as to be able to under¬ 
stand it. 

been much greater than that of other machines, and Weizen¬ 
baum goes on to explain why. The computer is, in a sense that he 
describes in two very well written chapters, a universal symbol 
processing machine. Although Weizenbaum tells us we can read 
this book without reading these two chapters on “Where the 
Power of the Computer Comes From” and “How Computers 
Work,” I found them utterly delightful. 

These two chapters demonstrate that Weizenbaum’s argu¬ 
ment comes from somebody who understands the computer. 
Weizenbaum explains Turing’s Universal Machine Theorem in 
terms that should be accessible to many readers who shy away 
from anything mathematical, although some may find the 
explanation a bit wordy. The Turing machine itself is 
exemplified in terms of stones and the perfect real-life counter¬ 
part of the Turing machine’s infinite tape divided into squares— 
a roll of toilet paper. 

He goes on to explain logical design and computer languages 
in a style that should appeal to many people with a shaky under¬ 
standing of these areas and should be enjoyable to those with 
solid backgrounds who like to see things they know said well. 
Some of the remarks he makes are marvelously apt. Thus in 
explaining the power of languages, he refers to Maslow’s com¬ 
ment that, “to the man who has only a hammer, the whole world 
looks like a nail” to suggest how one’s programming language 
can shape one's view of the world. Weizenbaum concedes that 
the computer is impressive and it is a suitable model for some 
thinking but it is not a total model. 

Weizenbaum points out that, contrary to what many have 
claimed, to be able to program something for a computer is not 
the same thing as to be able to understand it. It helps us to under¬ 
stand something better when we write a program to do it, but it 
also helps us when we try to describe it in English. Program¬ 
ming something is one way of understanding it, and a good way. 
What Weizenbaum objects to is thinking that it is the only way. 

The computer program, running under the control of a stored 
program, is an abstraction from the real world (with all its messy 
details) that many find more appealing than the real thing. It is 
so comfortable and neat that it can give rise to what Weizen¬ 
baum calls the “compulsive programmer” who sits, bleary eyed, 
in front of his console, totally absorbed by it and the technical 
problems that it presents to him or her. “The compulsive pro¬ 
grammer,” writes Weizenbaum, “is merely the proverbial mad 
scientist who has been given a theatre, the computer, in which he 
can, and does, play out his fantasies.” 

There is, according to Weizenbaum, a continuum, ranging 
from the compulsive programmer at one hand, who seeks to fit 
the world and its people into his (or her) rather narrow percep¬ 
tions of what is real, to the fuzzy minded humanist at the other 
extreme who seeks to understand the human being from all 
possible perspectives and finds no framework adequate to that 
purpose. I personally find both extremes somewhat distressing, 
but Weizenbaum focusses his guns on the compulsive program¬ 
mer. 

Science proceeds by simplifying reality, but Weizenbaum 
worries that we can overdo such simplification.He compares the 
computer scientist, who is trying to account for all human 
thought in terms of the computer, to the drunk who is looking 
for his keys under the street light, not because that is where he 
dropped them, but because the light is better there. Scientists do, 
indeed, tend to look where the light is better. That may be a 
mistake if they also assume that they are looking in the only 
possible place, but it is surely not a mistake per se. It is a mistake 
to think that “man is merely an information processing 
machine.” This limiting view is like a magical system in that it is 
detached from some (but not necessarily all) human experience. 

It is seductive precisely because it gives the person who holds 
it the illusion of having power that he does not really have. It is 
bad because it tries to capture all the world in a framework that 
is too weak to hold it. 


There are some things we know only by 
virtue of having bodies, being children, 
and being treated as human beings by 
other human beings. 

Weizenbaum argues that there is “nothing wrong with view¬ 
ing man as an information processor (or indeed as anything 
else), nor with attempting to understand him from that 
perspective, providing, however, that we never act as though any 
single perspective can comprehend the whole man. Our theories 
are dangerous if we think of them as being like encyclopedias in 
which we can look up what we want to know rather than as maps 
or guides that help us to understand but are not total guides to 
the territory they comprehend. The computer is a powerful 
instrument in helping us understand our world which is precisely 
why it is so important to remember that it is not the only instru¬ 
ment we have.” 

Weizenbaum considers various fields that use the computer 
metaphor to understand man. He devotes chapters to “Com¬ 
puter Models in Psychology,” “The Computer and Natural 
Language” and to “Artificial Intelligence.” The first of these 
focuses primarily on the ideas of Simon and Colby, the second 
on ELIZA and the work of Schank. Like other writers on this 
general subject, Weizenbaum quotes extensively from the rather 
optimistic writings of Simon whose rather rambunctious claims, 
having been given with explicit time limits, have proven to be 
overly optimistic and now provide fine fodder for critics. 
Weizenbaum is arguing that there is more in heaven and earth 
than is dreamt of in our computational philosophies and in re¬ 
minding us of this, he is surely right. 

He also points out that there are things that computers cannot 
ever know about human experience. There are some things we 
know only by virtue of having bodies, being children, and being 
treated as human beings by other human beings. And there are 
things one knows that one may not be able to communicate at all 
and that one can only understand by having certain experiences 
as a human being. 

These objections, Weizenbaum writes, touch not only on 
certain technical limitations of computers, but on what it means 
to be a human being and what it means to be a computer. He 
examines the arguments of those who find that all human ex¬ 
perience must be expressible by computer programs and finds 
them wanting. His analysis is perceptive (he understands the 
workers in this field) and probably correct. Interestingly 
enough, he recognizes that perhaps the best way* to com¬ 
municate even this idea may be in terms of a mechanistic 
metaphor. Thus when he talks of the contributions of the 
unconscious he points to the right hemisphere of the human 
brain (in those of us who are right-handed) where those con¬ 
tributions appear to “come from.” It is a bit odd to see him using 
mechanistic metaphors against the mechanists. 

He concedes that computers can make judicial decisions (and) 
psychiatric judgements but argues that they ought not to make 
them because they lack the proper background for this role. 
Even if computers gave the same results as a person in some (or 
even most) cases, we have no guarantee that they will do so in all. 
“What emerges as the most elementary insight,” he writes, “is 
that, since we do not have any way of making computers wise, 
we ought not now to give computers tasks that demand 
wisdom.” 

Weizenbaum points to the dangers of wh^t he calls “incom¬ 
prehensible programs” whose operations are not fully under¬ 
stood. Such programs arise because single programmers do not 
correctly anticipate the behavior of their programs and because 
programmers do not program singly. 

Incomprehensible programs, and most large programs are in¬ 
comprehensible in Weizenbaum’s sense, cannot be relied on to 
do what we may think they do and their controlled use can, 
therefore, be dangerous. This is particularly true in those cases 
where the decisions made by the program have to be acted on 
before we have the chance to validate their soundness. 

There are, then, at least two reasons not to rely wholly on pro¬ 
grams to make human decisions. One is that we know things that 
programs cannot know and the second is that there are some 
things that, in a sense, only the program can know and we 
cannot. 


90 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 










101 Basic 
Computer Games 

David H. Ahl. An anthology of games 
and simulations—from Acey-Deucey to 
Yahtzee, all in the BASIC language. 
Contains a complete listing, sample run, 
plus a descriptive write-up of each game. 
Our most popular book! Large format, 

, 248 pp. $7.50 [6C] 

What to Do After 
You Hit Return 

Another collection of games and 
simulations—all in BASIC—including 
number guessing games, word games, 
hide-and-seek games, pattern games, 
board games, business and social science 
simulations and science fiction games. 
Large format. 158 pp. $6.95 [8A] 


Fun & Games 
with the Computer 


So you’ve got a 
personal computer . 

Now what? 


Creative Computing Magazine 

So you’ve got your own computer. Now what? Creative Computing is chock full 
of answers — new computer games with complete listings every issue, TV color 
graphics, simulations, educational programs, how to catalog your LPs on 
computer, etc. Also computer stories by Asimov, Pohl, and others; loads of 
challenging problems and puzzles; in-depth equipment reports on kits, terminals, 
and calculators; reviews of programming and hobbyist books; outrageous 
cartoons and much more. Creative Computing is the software and applications 
magazine of personal and educational computing. Bi-monthly. 

1 -year sub’n $8.00 [ 1 A], 3- years $21.00 [ 1B], sample copy $ 1.50 [ 1C] 


Problem Solving With 
The Computer 

Ted Sage. This text is designed to be used 
in a one-semester course in computer 
programming. It teaches BASIC in the 
context of the traditional high school 
mathematics curriculum. There are 40 
carefully graded problems dealing with 
many of the more familiar topics of 
algebra and geometry. Probably the 
most widely adopted computer text. 244 
pp. $5.95 [8J] 

A Simplified Guide to 
Fortran Programming 

Daniel McCracken. A thorough first text 
in Fortran. Covers all basic statements 
and quickly gets into case studies ranging 
from simple (printing columns) to 
challenging (craps games simulation). 
278 pp. $8.75 [7F] 

Introduction to 


Ted Sage. “This book is designed as a 
text for a one-semester course in com- 

E uter programming using the BASIC 
inguage. The programs used as il¬ 
lustrations and exercises are games 
rather than mathematical algorithms, in 
order to make the book appealing and 
accessible to more students. The text is 
well written, with many excellent sample 
programs. Highly recommended.” — The 
Mathematics Teacher 351 pp. $5.95 [8B] 


The Star Trek Star 
Fleet Technical Manual 

Franz Joseph. This important resource 
book is packed with the data you need to 
create or modify STAR TREK computer 

t ames (see 2 above), including all 
tarship operating characteristics, and 
defense and weapon systems; standard 
orbits; velocity/time relationship; 

space/warp technology; Milky Way 
galaxy charts; Federation charts; 
Federation codes; etc., etc. A national 
best seller. Large format, Yinyl binder. 
180 pp. $6.95 [8C] 

BYTE Magazine 

If you are considering a personal com¬ 
puting system now or later, BYTE 
provides a wealth of information on how 
to get started at an affordable price. 
Covers theory of computers, practical 
applications, and of course, lots of how¬ 
to build it. Monthly. 1-Year sub’n $12.00 
[2A], 3-Years $30.00 [2B] 

Games & Puzzles 
Magazine 

The only magazine in the world devoted 
to games and puzzles of every kind — 
mathematical, problematical, 
crosswords, chess, gomoko, checkers, 
backgammon, wargames, card games, 
board games, reviews, competitions, and 
more. Monthly. 1-Year sub’n$12.00[3A] 

« 

Games With The 
Pocket Calculator 

Sivasailam Thiagarajan and Harold 
Stolovitch. A big step beyond tricks and 
puzzles with the hand calculator, the two 
dozen games of chance and strategy in 
this clever new book involve two or more 
players in conflict and competition. A 
single inexpensive four-banger is all you 
need to play. Large format. 50 pp. $2.00 
[8H] 

Games, Tricks and 
Puzzles For A Hand 
Calculator 

Wally Judd. This book is a necessity for 
anyone who owns or intends to buy a 
hand calculator, from the most 
sophisticated (the HP65, for example) to 
the basic “four banger.” 110 pp. $2.95 
[8D] 


The Best of Creative 
Computing — Vol. 1 

David Ahl. ed. Staggering diversity of 
articles and fiction (Isaac Asimov, etc.), 
computer games (18 new ones with 
complete listings), vivid graphics, 15 
pages of “foolishness,” and comprehen¬ 
sive reviews of over 100 books. The book 
consists of material which originally 
appeared in the first 6 issues of Creative 
Computing (1975), all of which are now 
out of print. 324 pp. $8.95 [6A] 

Computer Lib/ 

Dream Machine 

Ted Nelson. This book is devoted to the 
premise that everybody should under¬ 
stand computers. In a blithe manner the 
author covers interactive systems, ter¬ 
minals, computer languages, data struc¬ 
tures, binary patterns, computer 
architecture, mini-computers, big com¬ 
puters, microprocessors, simulation, 
military uses of computers, computer 
companies, and much, much more. 
Whole earth catalog style and size. A 
doozv! 127 pp. $7.00 [8P] 

Computer Power and 
Human Reason 

Joseph Weizenbaum. In this major new 
book, a distinguished computer scientist 
sounds the warning against the 
dangerous tendency to view computers 
and humans as merely two different 
kinds of “thinking machines.” Weizen- 
baum explains exactly how the computer 
works and how it is being wrongly 
substituted for human choices. 300 pp. 
$9.95 [8R] 

Artist and Computer 

Ruth Leavitt, ed. Presents personal 
statements of 35 internationally-known 
computer artists coupled with over 160 
plates in full color and black & white. 
Covers video art, optical phenomena, 
mathematical structures, sculpture, 
weaving, and more. 132 pp. $4.95 [6D] 
Cloth cover $10.95 [6E] 


Computer Science: 

A First Course (2nd Ed.) 

Forsythe, Keenan, Organick, and 
Stenberg. A new, improved edition of 
this comprehensive survey of the basic 
components of computer science. There 
has been an updating of important areas 
such as Programming, Structured 
Programming, Problem Solving, and 
other Computer Science Concepts. The 
quantity of exercises and problems has 
been increased. 876 pp.$ 16.95 [7D] 

Mr. Spock Poster 

Dramatic, large (17” x 23”) computer 
image of Mr. Spock on heavy poster 
stock. Uses two levels of overprinting. 
Comes in strong mailing tube. $1.50[5B] 


Problems For 
Computer Solution 

Gruenberger & Jaffray. A collection of 
92 problems in engineering, business, 
social science and mathematics. The 
problems are presented in depth and 
cover a wide range of difficulty. Oriented 
to Fortran but good for any language. A 
classic. 401 pp. $8.95 [7A] 


A Guided Tour of 
Computer Programming 
In Basic 

Tom Dwyer and Michael Kaufman. 
“This is a fine book, mainly for young 
people, but of value for everyone, full of 
detail, many examples (including 
programs for hotel and airline reser¬ 
vations systems, and payroll), with much 
thought having been given to the use of 
graphics in teaching. This is the best of 
the introductory texts on BASIC.”— 
Creative Computing Large format. 156 
pp. $4.40 [8L] 

BASIC Programming 
2nd Ed 

Kemenv and Kurtz. “A simple gradual 
introduction to computer programming 
and time-sharing systems. The best text 
on BASIC on almost all counts. Rating: 
A ^'-Creative Computing. 150 pp. $8.50 
[7E] 


Microcomputers 
and Microprocessors 

Arpad Barna & Dan I. Porat. For 
electronic engineers, programmers, and 
managers, an excellent introduction to 
the basic operation of the microcom¬ 
puters and microprocessors that have 
found application in many diverse fields. 
There is a balanced discussion of 
hardware and software, linking the two 
through a wide range of topics. Over 120 
problems and examples. Chapters can be 
used as separate units since they are self- 
contained. 112 pp. $10.50 [7B] 

Microprocessors: Tech¬ 
nology, Architecture 
and Applications 

Daniel R. McGlynn. This introduction 
to the microprocessor defines and 
describes the related computer structures 
and electronic semi-conductor processes. 
Treats both hardware and software, 
giving an overview of commercially 
available microprocessors, and helps the 
user to determine the best one for 
him/her. 240 pp. $12.00 [7C] 

Creative Computing 
Catalogue 

Zany 12-page tabloid newspaper/ 
catalog lists books, magazines, art prints, 
and T-Shirts: A conversation piece even 
if you don’t order anything. Free. [5A] 


CREATIVE COMPUTING, Dept. CC 
P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, NJ 07960 

Please send me the following: 

Quan. Cat. Description 


Price 


Books Shipping charge $1.00 USA, $2.00 Foreign . 

NJ Residents add 5% sales tax . 

□ Cash, check, M.O. enclosed TOTAL . 

□ BankAmericard ) Card No.- 

□ Master Charge ) Expiration date- 

Name__ 


Address 
City _ 


State 


. Zip. 
























Weizenbaum is unsparing in pointing out that the triumphs of 
artificial intelligence, to date, are largely “triumphs of tech¬ 
nique” and that even his own programs, such as ELIZA, fall in 
this category. He notes how few results of artificial intelligence 
research have found their way into industry. Those few have 
(like DENDRAL and M ACSYM A) come from areas in which a 
precisely and well understood theory had already been 
developed. But most programs in AI are not theory-based in the 
same way. This is why they lead to programs whose behavior it is 
not necessarily possible to understand. 

Our tendency to place too much faith in computer programs is 
not limited to the artificial intelligentsia. It is found frequently 
among the military and among those in government. There is a 
strong desire in bureaucracies of all kinds to harness the 
inexorable information crunching power of the computer to the 
bureaucracy’s aims and to rely on computers because of their 
“objectivity.” Such a reliance, Weizenbaum finds “mindless” in 
at least two senses of this word. 

Weizenbaum observes that it is a curious fact that the use of a 
word like “ethics” in conversation about science makes us feel 
uncomfortable. There are, he suggests, at least two reasons for 
this, neither of which is totally misplaced. One reason is that we 
fear that what is about to be said may apply to us and the second 
is that the conversation will be philosophical in the worst sense, 
which is to say that it will be vague and tedious. Weizenbaum’s 
critique does apply to most of us in computer science and, there¬ 
fore, reading him may make you feel uncomfortable. But what 
Weizenbaum says is, by and large at least, not vague or tedious. 
It is written in a language, and from a point of view, that a 
computer scientist can understand. 

If I have an important objection to what Weizenbaum is doing 
in this book (which is not to say that I don’t also have some 
unimportant objections)it is that he is not always doing what he 
claims to be doing. He argues that his aim is not to convert 
others to his views but to get people to think about what they 
themselves feel. But toward the end of his book, Weizenbaum 
gives in to a natural inclination to try to tell us what to think. He 
prefaces these suggestions with strong warnings against reading 
them in this way and says that he is only expressing his own 
views. But these warnings remind me of a bit of the warnings on 
cigarette advertisements. They are there, but the rest of the 
message tells you to ignore them. Thus Weizenbaum says that he 
thinks that work on speech understanding programs is 


dangerous and that one should not work on such programs. His 
arguments seem to me to be pretty weak. He also tells us not to 
couple animal brains with computers because that would be 
obscene. I may be coarse, and insensitive, but the obscenity 
eludes me. 

Weizenbaum qualifies his injunctions against such research 
by saying that such judgements “have no force except on 
myself.” He is right, but why does he give us arguments to con¬ 
vince us to agree with them? “I have learned,” he writes, “that 
people are constantly asking one another what they must do, 
whereas the only really important question is what they must 
be.” But then he tells us what we must do. I wish he hadn’t. 

But such injunctions are a minor part of the book and they are 
easily skimmed. On the whole, Weizenbaum’s analysis is very 
perceptive and very well done. The first three chapters of this 
book could, I think, be profitably read by students who want to 
“understand computers.” People interested in the impact of the 
computer on society could profit from reading Weizenbaum’s 
analysis of why the computer is potentially so dangerous, why 
we are so prone to think of ourselves as being nothing more than 
flesh and blood computers and why, as Thoreau put it more than 
a hundred years ago, “men have become the tools of their tools.” 

But in fact, this book is really primarily addressed to 
computer scientists* and only computer scientists can, I think, 
really understand it. Weizenbaum admits this. He writes: “If this 
book is to be seen as advocating anything, then let it be a call to a 
simple kind of courage. And because this book is, after all, about 
computers, let that call be heard mainly by teachers of computer 
science. I want them to have heard me affirm that the computer 
is a powerful new metaphor for helping us to understand many 
aspects of the world, but that it enslaves the mind that has no 
other metaphors and few other resources to call on. The worlcMs 
many things and no single framework is large enough to con¬ 
tain them all, neither that of man’s science nor that of his poetry, 
neither that of calculating reason nor that of pure intuition.” 

If you are not familiar with computers, there will be a lot in 
this book that you may not understand. Be that as it may, if you 
have at least written a program or two, I think you will find a lot 
in this book worth thinking, and talking, about. In any case, it is 
the first book on this subject that I have recommended to my 
friends. Read it. ^ 

Peter Kugel 

Boston College, MA 




Reviews 



Computers and Creativity by Carole Spearin McCauley. 160 pp. 
$7.50. Praeger Publishers, Inc., Ill Fourth Ave., New York, 
N.Y. 10003. 1974. 

Computers and Creativity asks whether the computer does or 
does not have artistic ability. It talks about what can be done 
with a computer other than calculating or processing data in 
“uncreative ways.” The author spends some time trying to ex¬ 
plain creativity and also the ways in which some eomputers 
learn. 

The style of this book did not particularly appeal to me and 
some details seemed rather tedious. The content, however, was 
excellent: the kinds of computer applications that this book 
describes deserve recognition as a growing field in computer 
science. 

Computers and Creativity does not really give enough details 
about the programs it describes to tell the average programmer 
how to go about doing likewise. But it would be useful for the 
person who wants a general introduction to the use of com¬ 
puters as an artistic tool. It deals, in a cursory way, with such 
questions as “What is creativity?”, “What is a computer?”, “How 
does one talk to computers?”, “Can a computer sing?”, “Can a 
computer create a picture, a movie, or an advertisement?”, “Can 
a computer write?”, and the required chapter in books like this: 
“Gasp! What will the computer do next?”. The book contains a 
useful, if partial, 8-page list of references. 

Peter Rubin 
Chestnut Hill, MA 


92 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 













LEONARDO 


Art Science Art Technology Art 

LEONARDO is a quarterly archives journal devoted to the visual line arts and 
to the impact upon them of science and technology. 

The importance of LEONARDO ha$ become recognised by artists, scientists, 
engineers, art and design teachers and by leading universities and art schools 
throughout the world. It is of outstanding value to anyone interested in art. 

In LEONARDO texts arc published in the tradition of professional journals and 
all tendencies in art arc treated, ranging from figurative painting and sculpture to 
kinetic art, to the application in art of computers, lasers, magnetism, alpha brain 
waves, etc. 

LEONARDO contains illustrated articles by artists on their own work, papers 
by scientists and engineers on new concepts, materials, techniques and reviews 
of new developments in education, psychology, architecture, cinema and theatre. 
There are regular sections on terminology, books, international science-art news, 
international opportunities for artists and aesthetics. Letters to the editor have 
developed into lively debates on ideas put forward by authors. 

Published quarterly 

Annual subscription for 
libraries and other multiple- 
reader institutions: $55.00 p.a. 

Individuals may obtain this 
journal at the reduced rate 
of $ 1 5.00 p.a. 

Please write for a specimen 
copy to the Subscriptions 
Fulfillment Manager at the 
most convenient address 

Pergamon Press Ltd, 
Headington Hill Hall, 

Oxford 0X3 0BW, England 
Fairview Park, Elmsford, 

New York 10523, USA 


Some illustrations Irom an article by Michael Thompson 

‘Computer Art: A visual model for the modular pictures of Manuel Barbadillo’ 



SEP-OCT 1 976 








TTL Cookbook by Donald E. Lancaster. $10.75 
Howard W. Sams, Indianapolis, Indiana, 46268. 1974. 

People who use computers often get sufficiently 
involved that a knowledge of hardware becomes useful, 
whether to understand better how the computer “does, it” 
internally, to maintain a computer system, or to add that 
special gadget as ^n input or output device. One needs 
several sorts of information resources, ranging from catalogs 
of logic devices (integrated circuits), hardware catalogs, 
explanations of hardware functions, etc. One can compile 
an impressive array of logic sheets and catalogs and still not 
have any guide to putting it all together. 

The TTL Cookbook does a good job of combining a 
range of factual information about the logic devices, the 
folklore and accepted good practice of their use, and a 
range of techniques and suggestions for projects. It is based 
on the premise that the TTL logic line has reached its 
maturity; a wide range of inexpensive functional parts is 
available and can be usefully combined and applied by 
persons without much training in electronics. The point is 
made forcefully that the building-block approach has 
removed the requirement for many of the standard logic 
design techniques that were essential a few years ago. 

The cookbook analogy implies that the reader can 
sample a recipe for a particular function (gating, timing, 
storage, counting, display) or find more general information 
on the proper preparation of logic systems using TTL 
devices. This background comes in the first chapter and 
assumes some acquaintance with the tools of electronic 
servicing and design such as oscilloscopes, power supplies, 
decoupling, resonance, inductance, etc. Although necessary 
before one undertakes a serious design, the detail can be 
skimmed by the novice if he promises to return later. The 
second chapter is a catalog of 77 frequently used members 
of the TTL family, with part numbers, functional names, 
pin designation diagrams, functional descriptions, logic 
delays and current requirements. The descriptions also 
contain cautionary notes about features that might cause 
problems for the naive user, which will help avoid some of 
the common problems that sometimes haunt new designs. 

A discussion of logic as applied to the TTL line follows 
in Chapter 3. Then come chapters devoted to gates and 
timer circuits, flip-flops, counters, shift registers and rate 
multipliers. Each section discusses several applications 
ranging from the realization of logic functions to the design 
of fun projects. Recurring examples include displays using 
light emitting diodes, timers and music generators. Most 
examples are relatively complete, although toward the end 
of the book several are presented in a relatively bare sketch 
of the technique. The discussion of the television time 
display and the TV typewriter are left at the high level 
block diagram stage. These and many other sketches of 
systems use of the applications detailed in previous chapters 
are found in the last chapter, entitled “Getting It All 
Together,” designed to challenge the reader to do some 
design thinking himself. A list of simpler project sugges¬ 
tions, still requiring synthesis, is given at the end and might 
serve as stimuli for science-fair type activities. 

The TTL parts described are readily available, for the 
most part, and are often available on the surplus market at 
tremendous reductions in cost. There are a few exceptions 
which may be aggravated by the particular distributers one 
uses. The use of a timing device designated as the 555 was 
new to me; searching for it was aggravated by the fact that 
manufacturers are mentioned inconsistently. In this case, 
try Signetics or Intersil NE555 or SE555, about $1.75. 
Some other types given are not necessarily manufactured 
by all of the major semiconductor houses, and certainly the 
cost of some of the devices used will exceed the implied 
low price unless one has ready access to the surplus market. 
Some indication of relative pricing would be helpful in the 
description of parts; the “as low as 30^ per package” can 
rise to $10 for some of the circuits. Returning to the 
analogy implied by the title, a knowledge of basic prices, 
substitutions and willingness to shop around for good buys, 
may be as necessary in the logic lab as it is in the kitchen 
these days. 

Robert S. McLean 
Toronto, Ontario 


Queries TV Theories (Game), by Layman E. Allen, Peter 
Kugel and Joan Ross, $9.75. Wff ’N Proof, 1490 South 
Blvd., Ann Arbor, MI 48104. 

QUERIES ’N THEORIES is a game (or series of 
games) which can be used for several purposes. It incor¬ 
porates ideas from modern theories of linguistics. The play 
simulates some important features of the scientific process. 
The authors state that it is “designed to develop a basic 
and uniquely human skill: asking good questions.” The 
instruction manual discusses briefly the relationship of the 
game to both linguistics and the scientific method. 

The game is designed for three or more players; 
there is a variation for two players described in the manual. 

One player, the “Native”, formulates a “Language” 
which consists of a set of rules for producing ordered strings 
of colored chips (Sentences). The remaining players, called 
“Querist-Theorists” or “QT’s”, attempt to understand the 
Language by asking whether specific strings of chips are 
Sentences of the Language (these yes-or-no answer questions 
are the “Queries” of the title). When a QT thinks he has 
a correct theory of the Language based on the Native’s 
responses to the Queries, he so states and becomes the 
Linguist. Querying then stops and the remaining QT’s 
affiliate with the Linguist if they think they have enough 
information to understand the Language; they affiliate with 
the Native if they believe there is not yet enough information 
available. The Linguist and his affiliates are each tested by 
asking them to predict whether or not strings constructed 
by the Native and his affiliates are Sentences in the Lan¬ 
guage. Payoffs are based on the complexity level of the 
Language and the number of Queries asked before testing 
begins. The Linguist wins if he gets all the Native’s test 
questions correct; the fewer the number of Queries that 
were asked initially, the more points he gets from the 
Native. The Native wins if the Linguist does not predict 
all the test questions correctly; the more Queries, the greater 
the number of points. Side payoffs are also made involving 
the Native-affiliates and the Linguist-affiliates. The scoring 
system is complex; charts for assisting the calculations are 
included in the game. 

This game is a very good simulation of the scientific 
process and students who work at it should be able to 
improve their “strong inference” abilities (see Platt, J. R., 
Scienc e, 1 46, 347 (1964)). In my experience, however, the 
game is riot easily learned, and in an initial 2 to 3 hour 
session, most students are only able to grasp the basic 
rudiments of the game. The instruction manual is itself 
over 50 pages long; about half of it is devoted to presenting 
the basic ideas and sample games in a programmed learning 
format. For greatest learning value, several playing sessions 
should be scheduled. As players gain experience, the com¬ 
plexity of the Language can be increased. There are also 
mechanisms for asking compound (“Strong”) Queries. These 
features provide additional richness, so that players’- interest 
and, therefore, learning continue as they play more games. 

I have worked mostly with a computerized version (un¬ 
published) in which the computer plays the role of the 
Native. With it, student interest is somewhat unevenly 
distributed: Most students are either mildly interested or 
totally disinterested in the game; a smaller number do 
get hooked, sometimes but not always developing into good 
players. The game does require thinking; people who don’t 
like to work at thinking won’t enjoy it. 

I would recommend the game to teachers who are in¬ 
terested in helping students develop their analytical abilities 
and to anyone who enjoys problem solving. It should be a 
useful supplement to any introductory course in the sciences 
at the high school or college level that includes a discussion 
of the scientific process. I have not used .it in a linguistic 
context and thus cannot comment on its usefulness in 
this area. 

Richard A. Cellarius 
The Evergreen State College 

Olympia, WA 98505 


your snoes. 



Hit the deck in shorts and 
a tee shirt. Or your bikini if 
you want. 

You’re on a leisurely cruise 
to remote islands. With names 
like Martinique, Grenada, 
Guadeloupe. Those are the 
ones you’ve heard of. 

A big, beautiful sailing vessel 
glides from one breathtaking 
Caribbean jewel to another. 

And you’re aboard, having 
the time of your life with an 
\ intimate group of lively, fun- 
loving people. Singles and 
couples, too. There’s good food, 
i “grog!’ and a few pleasant 
comforts... but there’s little 
resemblance to a stay at a 
fancy hotel, and you’ll be 
happy about that. 

Spend six days exploring 
paradise and getting to know 
congenial people. There’s no 
other vacation like it. 

Your share from $265. A new cruise is forming now. 

Write Cap’n Mike for your free adventure 
booklet in full color. 


Pp Windjammer Cruises. 


Address 


C *V SUU £p 



I P.0. Box 120, Dept. 17 


Miami Beach, Florida 33139 




















Computer Lib/Dream Machines by Theodor H. Nelson, 128 
pp. paper (oversize 11 x 14), $7.00. Hugo’s Book Service, 1974. 
Revised edition 1976. 

This is a very unusual book. Comments from university com¬ 
puter people I talked with have ranged from “the best book I’ve 
ever seen,’’ which may be true, to “a book of gossip,” which is 
certainly true. It resembles a Whole Earth Catalog in its general 
layout and teensy-weensy type. It is intended to give the total 
novice, as well as the more knowledgeable person, an idea of 
why computers do what they do as well as how they do it. Also, 
the matching T-shirts are now out and the movie is supposed to 
be on its way. 

The front half of the book, Computer Lib , tells you in no 
particular order about where computer work is being done, who 
is doing it, how computer hardware works, how different types 
of computer hardware and software differ, how computer 
languages work, how computers are bought and sold, how some 
other computer-like things work, and what computers do and 
don’t do, and several other things. All this is embedded in a 
mish-mosh of pictures, jokes, comments and other interesting 
goodies. The book lends itself to being dipped into for the 
interesting parts rather than to being read straight through. 
Three computer languages are introduced in a fairly good way: 
two familiar ones (Basic and APL) and one obscure one (Trac). 
These introductions are meant to give the reader an idea of what 
programming is like, not to give details, so if you were intending 
to get this book to learn Basic, don’t. 

The back half, Dream Machines , tells about the author’s 
special interest, graphics. He goes into that the same way he at¬ 
tacked computers in general in the first half, and since this is a 
smaller field it gets more detailed. It also gets more complex. 
Since he has definite opinions on graphics, much more than on 
computers in general, the going can get kind of tough as he gives 
gruesome details about his favorite things. 

He wraps up both halves of the book (in the middle, naturally) 
with his ideas of what computers, graphics, and people should 
be doing together, which are interesting in themselves. 

Overall, the book has its strong and weak points. The author 
is no technical computer whiz, which is an advantage since he 
doesn’t assume you are one either. On the other hand, the book 
has a wealth of trivial errors—the one comment attributed to me 
is something I never said. Nevertheless, this book is worth get¬ 
ting because you certainly won’t find anything like it anywhere 
else. It’s unique. 

John Levine 
New Haven, CT 




The Compleat Computer by Dennie L. Van Tassel, 216 pp. 
paper, $5.95. Science Research Associates, 1976. 

The cover proclaims: “The Compleat Computer being a com¬ 
pendium of: Tales of the amazing & marvelous — Poetry — 
Informative news items — Articles for edification and enjoy¬ 
ment — Cartoons — Plus many other illustrations — with a 
special section of Splendiferous Science Fiction Art in full 
color.” This in 7 different type faces and two colors, intro¬ 
ducing, in my mind, one of the most diverse, interesting and 
mind-expanding computer books ever to hit print. 

I boarded the American flight from Newark to Dallas in the 
early evening expecting to sleep most of the way, having been up 
much of the nignt before with a pregnant cat and cranky son. 
Most books put me to sleep and I made the mistake of assuming 
that this one would too. It didn’t—Alistair MacLean, Isaac 
Asimov and John MacDonald move over. Dennie Van Tassel 
has asembled a fantastic bunch of articles and stories about the 
computer that would keep Rip Van Winkle alert and wide-eyed. 

Setting the stage are a series of articles by what I call 
“popular” writers titled, by Dennie, “In the Beginning.” He then 
follows with 14 hardware and 7 software pieces. I use the terms 
hardware and software loosely because Dennie has articles by 
Michael (“Terminal Man”) Crichton, Ray (“The Martian 
Cronicles”) Bradbury, Arthur C. (“2001”) Clarke, and believe it 
or not, Art (“Ha!”) Buchwald. C’mon now Buchwald, what do 
you know about that data processing stuff? v 


Stewart Brand drops in to talk about “Counter Computers” in 
the section, “The Present and Potential.” Stewart, you’ll recall, 
loyal Creative readers, does Co Evolution Quarterly and Whole 
Earth Catalog and Epilogue and that stuff. 

Sections follow on “Applications,” “The Impact,” and 
“Governmental Uses” (ugh—not to the writers, but to Uncle— 
IRS, HEW, CIA, NCIC, GTH-Sam); 

“Controls, or Maybe Lack of Controls” comes next with all 
the (usual) privacy stuff and more including an article “Man 
Bites Ford” from Consumer Reports (watch it, Dennie, you 
may have permission, but CR doesn’t permit reprints even 
when they’ve given permission—they’re suing us now—see you 
in jail). 

Rounding out the book are some keen (40’s), super (50’s), 
fantastic (60’s), bad (70’s) articles on “The Future” (80’s). (With 
one exception—but that’s up to you to find). 

My review may be on the light side but this is not a book to be 
taken lightly. It is a book assembled with great care, and a book 
that can (and should) well serve as the backbone of a computer 
literacy or computers in society course. Indeed, it should be re¬ 
quired reading of every high school and college graduate today. 
After all, like it or not, the computer is now our constant 
companion, slave and nemesis, and one really ought to know 
about this fantastic force/animal/machine/intelligence — 
(select one or more). 

Get a copy. Today! 

David H. Ahl 
Morristown, NJ 




The Elementary Functions: An Algorithmic Approach. 
G. Albert Higgins, Jr. 335 pp. Prentice-Hall, Inc. Engle¬ 
wood Cliffs, New Jersey 07632. 

This book uses the idea of a computer program, and 
of the algorithm that it carries out, to develop the stu¬ 
dent’s understanding of the idea of a function in general 
and of many specific elementary functions. It assumes that 
the reader has some ability to program computers (prefer¬ 
ably, but not necessarily, in BASIC), but the reader will 
need few mathematical ideas beyond those found in 
elementary algebra and a smattering of elementary set 
theory. The idea of a function is developed in terms of 
algorithms for evaluating functions and doing other things 
to them. 

Many of the ideas used are what one might call “geo¬ 
metric” or visually oriented. Some ideas from calculus are 
introduced including the idea of the area under a curve 
and of the slope of a curve at a point. But they are in¬ 
troduced in algorithmic clothes (e.g. by using the Trapezoidal 
Rule to actually compute areas). 

The book contains many problems that use the results 
developed. Numerical answers and graphical interpretations 
are often given. By providing both algorithmic and geo¬ 
metrical interpretations of ideas that are usually portrayed 
only algebraically, the author manages to enrich a subject 
that may often appear rather dry. The considerable amount 
of historical material presented doesn’t hurt in this respect 
either. But this is a fairly abstract treatment and it is not 
recommended for use in classes in which students are likely 
to ask “What is this good for?” 

This book is suitable for a post-algebra, post-computing 
but pre-calculus course in either high school or college. It 
provides, as the author claims, a reasonable foundation for 
further work, not only in calculus but also in statistics 
and-or probability. It is well written. 

John Cordeiro 
Chestnut Hill, MA. 




96 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


BSS 


the only magazine in the world 
devoted to games and puzzles of every 
kind, as composed and compiled by 
irresistable mind-benders for immovable 
mind-defenders: puzzles mathematical 
and problematical, logical and literal, 
analogue and digital, brain-bashing and 
eye-crossing ... some for beginners, some for 
the casual, some for never-give-uppers ... with 
mazes and crazes, networks and pathways 
chessbits, pentominoes: and eight W of 
crosswords from cryptic to crackpot... All this and 
games galore! The games real people love to play: not 
only chess, cards, go, checkers and backgammon 
but also all forms of word games and wargames, card 
games and board games ... with in-depth studies of 
favourites like Monopoly, Scrabble, Diplomacy ... 
notes historical and analytical .. and reviews of all the 
latest board games on the market as played, described and 
assessed by a panel of experts ... plus readers games, book 
reviews queries, readers’ letters, prize-wi nning com petitions 



Annual subscription SI 2.00 paid '" a0>a "“_ Toranham Court Road • 

















































The small wonder 


ALTA1F CSC 


world 


Measuring just 11" wide x 11 deep x 5 high, and weighing a 
mere 7 pounds, the Altair™ 680b is a complete, general-purpose 

computer. . . 

The secret to this revolutionary, small computer is its CF U 
board. This double-sided board fits along the bottom of the Altair 
case and plugs directly into the front panel board. It contains 
the new 6800 microprocessor, 1,024 bytes of RAM memory, a 256 
byte PROM monitor, provisions for 768 bytes of additional PROM 
or ROM, and a single Interface port with a Motorola ACIA serial 
interface adapter which can be configured either RS-232 or TTY. 
A five level Baudot interface option is also available. 

The Altair 680b can be programmed from front panel switches, 
or it can be interfaced to a video display terminal, or teletype¬ 
writer. Three additional circuit boards can be plugged inside the 
Altair 6801) for further memory and interface expansion. The first 
of these boards is a 16K static RAM memory board. 

Software already developed includes Altair 680 BASIC with 
all the features of the 8K F5ASIC previously developed for the 
Altair 8800. These include Boolean operators, the ability to read 
or write a byte from any I/O port or memory location, multiple 


statements per line, and the ability to interrupt program execution 
and then continue after the examination of variable values. This 
software takes only 6.8K bytes of memory space and a copy is 

included free with the purchase of the Altair 680 16K memory 
board. 

Other software includes a resident two pass assembler.(also 
free with 16K board) The Altair 680b is also compatible with 
Motorola 6800 software. 

The Altair 0 60b is ideal for hobbyists who want a powerful 
computer system at an economic price. Altair 680b owners qualify 


NOTE: Altair is a trademark of MITS. Inc. 


for membership in the Altair Users Group, and like other Altair 
owners, they receive a complimentary subscription to Computer 
Notes and complete factory support. 

PRICES: 

Altair 680b kit with complete, easy-to-understand assembly man¬ 


ual, operator's manual, and programming manual $466 

Assembled Altair 680b $625 

Aitair 680b turnkey model kit $395 

Expander Card 680MB (required to expand 680) $24 

Altair 680BSM 16K static RAM board kit with 680 BASIC $685 
Altair 680 BASIC when purchased separately $200 

Baudot option $ 42 


MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY 


□ Inclosed is a check for $_ 

□ BankAmericard **-or Master Charge **- 

□ Altair 680b □ Kit □ Assembled □ Other (specify) 

enclose $8 for postage and handling (Continental U.S. Others subject to quote) 

□ Please send free information package 

NAME_ 

ADDRESS_ 

CITY_STATE & ZIP_ 

@ DuDQS© 

2450 Alamo SE/Albuqucrquc, NM 87106, 505 243 7821 


Price specifications subject to change Please allow up to 60 days for delivery. 
























