DOCUMENT RESUSE 


ED 127 366 95 TH 005 526 

AUTHOR Lambert, Nadine M.; Hartsough, Carolyn S. 

TITLE Beginning Teacher Evaluation Study: Phase II, 
1973-74, Final Report: Volume III.1. AFFLE 
Observation Variables and Their Relationship to 
Reading and Mathematics Achievement. 

INSTITUTION California State Commission for Teacher Preparation 


SPONS AGENCY 


and Licensing, Sacramento.; Educational Testing 
Service, Princeton, N.J. 
National Inst. of Education (DHEW), Washington, 


D.C. 
REPORT NO ETS-PR-76-8 
PUB DATE Jul 76 
NOTE 391p.; Por related documents, see TMH 005 524-535; 


Tables 66-85 may be marginally legible due to type 
size of the original document 


EDRS PRICE 
DESCRIPTORS 


MF-$0.83 HC-$20.75 Plus Postage. 

*Academic Achievement; *Classrooa Observation 
Techniques; Correlation; *Effective Teaching; 
Elementary Education; Grade 2; Grade 5; Mathematics; 
Predictive Validity; Predictor Variables; Reading; 
Reliability; Statistical Analysis; *Student Behavior; 
*Teacher Behavior; Time 

Anecdotal Processing Promote Learning Experience; 
*APPLE Observation System 


IDENTIFIERS 


ABSTRACT 

The Beginning Teacher Evaluation Study (BTES), Phase 
II, was a research preject on effective teaching behavior--what 
teachers do that sianificantly affects what and tw pupils learn. The 
purposes of Phase II were to (1) develop an ass ment system for 
measuring teacher and pupil behaviors and other factors which could 
influence each of them and their interrelationships and (2) generate 
hypotheses about the interrelationships among teacher and pupil 
behaviors and related factors. Forty-one second grade and 54 fifth 
grade experienced teachers participated in the study. This volume of 
the final report describes the APPLE (Anecdotal Processing to Promote 
Learning Experience) Observation System, a low inference descriptive 
record, which was used to specify the observable teacher and student 
behaviors. The behavior recording system employed in APPLE 
observations provided data on pupil behavior in reading and 
mathematics instruction, teacher responses to pupil behavior, the 
instructional contexts for both instructional areas at grades two and 
five, and the teaching activities which typified teacher behavior for 
these grades and instructional areas. Time duration data reflected 
time allocation of instruction in the several contexts which are 
common to the BTES classes. In general, the data reported here 
support the use of a behavior recording system as a valid tool for 
studying teacher performance characteristics. (RC) 


Documents acquired by ERIC include many informal unpublished materials not available from other sources. ERIC makes every 
effort to obtain the best copy available. Nevertheless, items of marginal reproducibility are often encountered and this affects the 
quality of the microfiche and hardcopy reproductions ERIC makes available via the ERIC Document Reproduction Service (EDRS). 
EDRS is not responsible for the quality of the original document Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made from 


the original. 


BEGINNING TEACHER EVALUATION STUDY 
PHASE II 1973-74 


FINAL REPORT 
VOLUME III.1, 


2S QFPF RTs ewt OF HEALTH 


= & WELFARE 
Tec ativuve os 
Ma tO6CUCATION 

HIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN REPRO- 
DUCED EXACTLY AS RECE!VED FROM 
HE PERSON OR ORGAN! ZATION ORIGIN- 
TIMG IT POINTS OF VIEW OR OPINIONS 
TATED OO NOT NECESSARILY REPRE- 

NT OF FICIAL NAT. ONAL INSTITUTE OF 


DUCATION POS'TION OR POLICY 
APPLE OBSERVATION VARIABLES AND 
THEIR RELATIONSHIP To READING AND 
MATHEMATICS ACHIEVEMENT 


PERMISSION | REPRODUCE THiS Copy 
MIGHTED MATERIAL aS BEEN GRANTED BY 
' 


Doke fe URE AL 


TIONS OPERATING 
UNDER AGREEMENTS wiTh THe NATIONAL IN 
STITUTE OF EDUCATON FURTHER REPRO 
DUCTION OUTSIDs "ME ERIC SYSTEM ag 
> R¥ISSI WOOF HE COPYRIGHT 


BY 


NADINE M. LAMBERT 
CAROLYN S. HARTSOUGH 


UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
BERKELEY 


® 


EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE 
PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY 


TiI.l. 


BEGINNING TEACHER EVALUATION STUDY: PHASE II 


FINAL REPORT: VOLUME III.1. 


APPLE OBSERVATION VARIABLES AND THEIR RELATIONSHIP 


TO READING AND MATHEMATICS ACHIEVEMENT 


by 
Nadine M. Lambert 


Carolyn S. Hartsough 


University of California, Berkeley 


A project conducted by Educational Testing Service 
for the California Commission for Teacher Preparation 
and Licensing and funded by the National Institute 

of Education. 


Copyright G) 1975, 1976 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved. 


3 


PREFACE 


The Beginning Teacher Evaluation Study (BTES) is a long-term project 
of the California Commission for Teacher Preparation and Licensing. The 
Commission is responsible for licensing teachers in California and is 
trying to determine what factors should be considered in this process. 

The second phase of the study was conducted py Educational Testing 
Service for the Commission. Phase II was the hypotheses-generating and 


instrument-development phase of BTES. ETS had two tasks: (1) to develop 


an assessment system to measure both teacher and pupil behaviors as well 


as other factors which might be related to these behaviors; and (2) to 


generate hypotheses about the interrelationships between teacher and 


pupil behaviors and related factors. 

The study was conducted in 43 schools in eight districts throughout 
the state of California. A total of 41 second grade teachers and 54 
fifth grade teachers participated in the project during Phase II. 

The final report for Phase II consists of several volumes. Volume I 
describes the design and rationale for the experimental design and data 
analysis procedures and includes the major findings of Phase II. Volume 
II describes the conduct of the field study and the sample of participants. 

Because of the complex nature of Phase II, a variety of techniques 
was used to measure teacher and pupil behaviors. They are described in 
Volumes III, IV, and V. Results are also included in these volumes. 

Volume III describes the observation systems in detail and is available 
in three separately bound sections. The first section, Volume III.1l., 
describes the behavior recording observation system used in the project-- 
APPLE (Anectdotal Process for Promoting the Learning Experience). Volume 


III.2. describes the category system used to observe classroom activities-- 


& 


RAMOS (Reading and Mathematics Observation System). The third section of 
this volume, III.3., covers the videotaping of instructional activities 
during reading and mathematics. 
Volume IV concerns other aspects of the measurement system and 
covers both the pupi! and teacher test batteries. 
The fifth volume covers a series of small studies done as part of 
Phase II. Volume V.1. looks at teacher aptitudes as related to teacher 
behaviors. Volume V.2. is concerned with the relationship between 
teacher expectations and pupil performance. Volume V.3. reviews performance 
of pupils in the BTES teachers’ classrooms for two years prior to Phase 
.II, the historical test data. Volume V.4. discusses the Diagnostic Film 
Test, a device designed to assess teachers’ skills in diagnosing reading 
problems and prescribing corrective action. Volume V.5. summarizes the 
results of work diaries completed by the teachers on their reading and 
mathematics instructional program. 
Information on the availability of these volumes can be obtained 
from: 
Dr. Frederick J. McDonald 
Educational Studies 
Educational Testing Service 


Princeton, NJ 08540 


Information on other phases of BTES can be obtained from: 


California Commission for Teacher 
Preparation and Licensing 

1020 O Street 

Sacramento, CA 95814 


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 


We gratefully recognize the contributions of 
the following APPLE observers: Mildred Broking, ss 
Cathleen Caffrey, Janet Corder, Shalumit Eastwood, 

Barbara Harsh, Arlene Jordan, Nancy MacEwen, 

Bob Niederman, Bette Simons, Ruth Symonds, 

David Totheroh, Carolyn Urbanski, Virginia 

Vandagriff, and Robert Wolterstorff. Without 

their conscientious attention to the gathering 

of source materials, little of what appears 

herein cov'd have been written. 


Special thanks also to Cathleen Caffrey, 

Carolyn Urbanski and Jolinda Decad for their 
patience aid accuracy in encoding the observations 
and to Ch: “lene Forestener and Ronya Javkin for 
keypunchi: a very large number of observations 
with few _ors and in record time. As always, 
Fred and ily Converse, resident experts in the 
use of tt APPLE computer programs, contributed 
immeasurably in managing the many steps of data 
processing and reduction which must precede 
analysis of a data base of this magnitude. 


Several members of the ETS staff also deserve f 
mention. Fred McDonald suggested amendments to 
earlier drafts of the report which greatly improved 
it as did Patricia Elias and Patricia Wheeler. 

J. Richard Harsh identified training sites and 
coordinated observation activities in the Southern 
California region. Sharon Tucker and Janice Jackson 
typed the report and Mary Corder coordinated the 
production of the report. Most importantly, 

Gail Hare gave generously of her time and talents 

in providing the editorial assistance needed to 
convert our "rough drafts" into the finished 
product. 


Nadine M. Lambert 
Carolyn S. Hartsough 


3 


; yeh | 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Preface 

Acknowledgements ....... Cee eee ew ee 

The APPLE Observation RR sk ee ee eS vw eee 
Description of the APPLE Observation System ..., 


The concept of an event in the APPLE 
Observation System ... Ee Ge ae ee Se ee er 


Mandatory information in the observation record 


Summary and description of major categories of 
observation used in BTES ... ie er a 


Observing the Duration of Classroom Beha ior... . 
Procedures for Conducting the BTES APPLE Observations . , 


Preparation of the Observation Manual for the 
Bree Seeee eS ek Se Oe ee ee eee 


The Observation Form..... Se ea Oe we ea 
Observer Training Activities . C4 «ee ee Ss 

Observation Schedules ...., 2), A ee ee 
Identificat'ra of the Pupil Sample for Observation ° 
Observation Procedures for the sarees Pupils . 4... 
Frequency of Observation POOUNES 6 ne a ee 
Principles of Sampling Behavior to be Observed... 
Procedures for Observing Sampled Behavior es Ges 
Encoding APPLE Observations . a he tee Ne ee ee ee 
Preparation of APPLE Observations for Data Analysis 


Specification of the most frequently 
appearing observational data ... eS er ae 


Transformation of raw observation frequencies 
into comparable measures across classrooms ., 


22 


44 


45 


TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 


Page 
Reduction of Time Allocation Variables to 
Reflect Time Allocation by Clase i oS oS ec eS 62 
Results > o . * . . a . > . . o . > . oe . = + - . 7 > . . . . - oe + 67 
Grade Level Contrasts for Observations in 
Reading and Mathematics ‘fanteuctiGm.-. «ea 5 8 4 ee eee 69 
Comparisons of average prorated incidence 
at pupil events by grade level and instructional 
area . . 7. . . . . 7 ° . >. . . > . . . . . . . > 7 . . . fg 
Comparisons of average prorated incidences of 
instructional contexts by grade level and 
Sidttentiuins GGG. 4 4a e 0 OOM ee StF te ON Ae 72 
Comparisons of average prorated incidences of 
teacher activities by grade level and instructional 
Rede Sc a ee wee ee. Ce he 8 EO OO ee ‘ 75 
Comparisons of average prorated incidences cf 
teacher reponses by grade level and instructional 
areas . . . . . . . . . a . - . . . . . . . oe . o . © 7 . 78 


Grade Level Comparisons of Time Allocation in 
Instructional Contexts in Reading and Mathematics .-+++ «+» 78 


Grade level comparisons for the six time 
ati neettos weaaurep 10 SORETOR «+ © 6s Fe 82 


Grade level comparisons for the six time 
allocation variables in eathematics® »« «4.6 4 6 88 68S 89 


Partial Correlations of Observation Variables with 
Reading Achievement Outcomes --++-+-:**° °° *° eae ae 96 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences 
of pupil events with reading outcomes .--+-+-*+s** °° 97 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences 
of instructional contexts with reading outcomes .--+ = > 99 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences 
of teacher activities with reading outcomes - +» + + + * = 101 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences 
of teacher reponses with reading outcomes - +--+ °° ° * 102 


8 


TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 


Partial Correlations of Observation Variables 
with Mathematics Achievement Outcomes .....e«.. 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of 
pupil events with mathematics outcomes ..... 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of 
instructional contexts with mathematics ouc*omes 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of 
teacher activities with mathematics outcomes. . 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of 
teacher responses with mathematics outcomes... 


Partial Correlations of Observation Variables with 
Pupil Attitude Outcomes « 6 i's 86 6 46 46 ee 8 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of 
pupil events in reading and in mathematics with 
SECECGER CUSCOMEE: 6 628 6 PO 8 ee 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of 
instructional contexts in reading and mathematics 
Wiucs BEET Cee OCUCCORNS «6 ik 8 HS Se ee ee 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of 
teacher activities in reading and in mathematics 
with attitude outcomes . « +s «-«'6 6 we oe 6 8 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of 
teacher responses in reading and in mathematics 
with @€titude Ovtcomes 25 ee ee ee ee te 


Overview of the Relationship of Observation Variables 
to Achievement and Attitude Outcomes .......e.e6. 


Partial Correlations of Time Allocation Variables with 
Reading Achievement Outcomes . 6. ss ties ee ee 


Partial correlations of time allocation variables 
with reading outcome measures in second grade. . 


Partial correlations of time allocation variables 
with reading outcome measures in fifth grade .. 


Partial correlations of time allocation variables 
with mathematics outcomes in second grade... . 


9 


vil 


Page 


105 


105 


107 


107 


110 


112 


112 


115 


117 


119 


122 


130 


131 


137 


138 


TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
Page 


Partial correlations of time allocation variables 
with mathematics outcome measures in fifth grade .... 138 


Partial Correlations of Time Allocation Measures with 
Paull Attitude QUEGCGNEN 66 6 6 6 6 ss 8 ee ae «ARS 


Overview of the Relationship of Context Time Allocation 
Variables to Achievement and Attitude Cutcomes ........ 148 


Comparisons Between Teachers with Better than Predicted 
and Poorer than Predicted Achievement Outcomes Using 
Crosstabulations of Observational Categories ......-+-- 154 


Crosstabulations of instructional contexts and 
teacher activities using the example of second 
evade reading. i vos. 3 6 8ge ek 8 ee SS oe Be 


Crosstabulations of instructional contexts and 
pupil events using the example of second grade 
SUAAERE 5 6 6 ek a Fe ere ee 6. eee ee ee 


Crosstabulations of instructional contexts and 
teacher responses using the example of second 
write ceeding 4 6<6 oe es Se ee ee ee eS ee 


Crosstabulations of pupil events and teacher 
activities using the example of second grade 
reading . . . o * . . . . . . ° * . . . 7 . om > . . e . . 161 


Crosstabulations of pupil events and teacher 

responses using the example of second grade 

reading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * . 7 : . a @ . . . . 164 
Summary of the Findings from the APPLE Observations ........ 183 


Description of Pupil and Teacher Behavior in 
Srrs Claneroeesé «=. 3 ss 6 4 6 ae ee ee ee ee 


Descriptions of Tir2 Allocations in Contexts 
ek TES CURATOON ks 6 OS ee 8 ee ee ee ‘ 
= 


Validity of Observational Variables for ex 
Predicting Reading Outcomes ....+-2cececceecee so « 186 


Validity of Observational Variables for 
Predicting Mathematics Outcomes .... +++ e-«-e-s-ee-e 187 


Validity of Observational Variables for 
Predicting Attitude Outcomes . . 2.2. ce ssee ve cvcen es « 1 


i0 


viii 


TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 


Page 
Overview of Relationship of Observation Variables \ 
to Achievement and Attitude Outcomes . .- ++ +++ e+ e+ e+ ee & 1906 
Time Allocation Data as Predictors of Learning and 
Mbetedsa CAGE 6 554 6 6 wk 0 8 Fee 8 Fe Oe we 191 
Interrelationship of Pupil and Teacher Observation 
f eee eg ee ge Ne ee Ee BEER: 0 ES eS 192 
Cant tees boa eS Ke Oe ae ee ee ee ee 193 é 
References ...+-«s - RG he Metre mer ee a ON a 
Appendix A: Exploration of the Reliability of the 
APPLE Observation Systems ...+ +++ +e «© © © © # » 197 


Appendix B: Descriptive: Statistics for Observation 
Variables and Time Allocation Measures 
Stratified by Socioeconomic Status of School 
Population and Geographic Location of Gclieel «s+. > 209 


Appendix ©: Factor Analysis and Factor Validity Studies 
for APPLE Observation Variables ....+-++++ 228s 307 


Appendix D: Instructions for APPLE Observers in the 
Beginning Teacher Evaluation Study . . +++ +++ -s 343 


ix 


LIST OF TABLES 


APPLE Instructional Cont2xt Lexicon 
Teacher Activity Lexicon . 
APPLE Pupil Event Lexicon 
APPLE Teacher Response Lexicon 
APPLE Pupil Activity Lexicon 
Frequency of Events Over All BTES Classrooms . 


Frequencies of Cortexts Associated with Events 
Gwar .Ail BITES CigeG@ea RS: ss 8 4 ek ee eR 


reauencies of Teacher Activities Associated with 
Poeents Over Al; BIES Clhaserooms i. «1 < «6s 


: 
Frequencies of Teacher Responses Associated with 
Events Over All BTES Classrooms .....+e.+«.- 


Raw Frequency Counts of Pupil Events in Reading 
and Mathematics Instruction .....+«e«e6. 


APPLE Lexicon Definition of Selected Pupil 
pi ee ee a ee ee ree ee 


Raw Frequency Counts of Contexts in Reading and 
Mathematics Instruction ....-++s e«ee«ee 


APPLE Lexicon Definition of Selected Contexts 


Raw Frequency Counts of Teaching Activities 
in Reading and Mathematics Instruction... 


APPLE Lexicon Definition of Selected Teacher 
Bese T ee ee keg cs 6 oe Se ee, ee 


Raw Frequency Counts of Teacher Responses to 
Pupil Events in Readirg and Mathematics 
EROETOCCION <2 a 6 0 hw Ee BE Se 


APPLE Lexicon Definition of Selected Teacher 
eae ae ae aa hee We ee ee ee ee ee oe ee ee 


LIST OF TABLES (continued) 


Average Prorated Incidence at Events Observed 
During Reading in RBTES Classrooms 


Average Prorated Incidence of Events Observed 
During Mathematics in BTES Classrooms 


Average Prorated Incidence of Contexts Observed 
During Reading in BTES Classrooms ..... . 


Average Prorated Incidence of Contexts Observed 
During Mathematics in BTES Classrooms .... 


Average Prorated Incidence of Teacher Activities 
Observed During Reading in BTES Classrooms... 


Average Prorated Incidence of Teacher Activities 
Observed During Mathematics in BTES Classrooms . 


Average Prorated Incidence of Teacher Responses 
Observed During Reading in BTES Classrooms 


Average Prorated Incidence of Teacher Responses 
Observed During Mathematics in BTES Classrooms 


Mean Number of Minutes Per Student Per Day Spent 
in Contexts During Reading . 


Mean Number of Productive Minutes Per Student Per 
Day Spent in Contexts During Reading ....... 


Mean Percent Total Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Reading... 


Mean Percent Productive Minutes Per Stua at Per 
Day Spent*in Contexts During Reading ....... 


Mean Percent Gross Time Per Student Per Day Spent 
in Contexts During Reading ..... 


Mean Percent Gross Productive Time Per Student Per 
Day Spent in Context During Reading ....... 


Mean Number of Minutes Per Student Per Day Spent 
in Contexts During Mathematics .-. ...+s«.+se 


Mean Number of Productive Minutes Per Student Per 
Day Spent in Contexts During Mathematics . . 


Mean Percent Total Minutes Per Student Per Day 


Spent in Contexts During Mathematics ..... 


xii 


13 


LIST OF TABLES (continued) 
Table Page 


35 Mean Percent Productive Minutes Per Student Per 
Day Spent in Contexts During Mathematics ....... 93 


36 Mean Percent Gross Time Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Mathematics ....... « 
37 Mean Percent Gross Productive Time Per Student 


Per Day Spent in Contexts During Mathematics ..... 95 


38 Partial Correlation of BTES Variables (Pupil 
Events) with Spring Outcome Scores Controlling 
for Fail Scores = Beadine Tete 4k sc ss eee ee ee 


39 Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Variables 
(Instructional Contexts) with Spring Outcome 
Scores Controlling for Fall Outcome Scores - 
EO TOOCG aes i 6 a eS Sw 8 oe ee ee eee 


40 Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Variables 
(Teacher Activities) with Spring Outcome Scores 
Controlling for Fall Scores - Reading Tests .... . 103 


41 Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Variables 
(Teacher Responses) with Spring Outcome Scores 
Controlling for Fall Scores - Reading Tests ..... 104 


42 Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Variables 
(Pupil Events) with Spring Outcome Scores 
Controlling for Fall Scores - Mathematics Tests .. . 106 


43 Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Variables 
(Instructional Contexts) with Spring Outcome 
Scores Controlling for Fall Scores - 
ee ae ee ee ee ee re ee 


44 Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Variables 
(Teacher Activities) with Spring Outcome Scores 
Controlling for Fall Scores - Mathematics Tests ... 109 


45 Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Variables 
(Teacher Response) with Spring Outcome Scores 
Controlling for Fall Scores - Mathematics Tests ... 11l 


46 Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Variables 
(Pupil Events) with Spring Outcome Scores 
Controlling for Fall Scores - Attitude Outcomes ... 113 


47 Partial Correlations of BTES Variables (Contexts) 
with Spring Outcome Scores Controlling for Fall 
SCORES: < AECL CUES: CGO: 6 A 8: bk eee So we ee ee 


14 


xiii 


Table 


48 


49 


50 


51 


52 


52A 


52B 


52C 


53 


54 


55 


56 


LIST OF TABLES (continued) 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Variables 


(Teacher Activities) with Spring Outcome Scores 
Controlling for Fall Scores — Attitude Outcomes 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Variables 


(Teacher Responses) with Spring Outcome Scores 
Controlling for Fall Scores - Attitude Outcomes 


Summary of Observational Variables with Significant 


Partial Correlations with Two or More Outcvume 
Measures - Pupil Events .-+-++++** * °° 


Summary of Observational Variables with Significant 


Partial Correlations with Two or More Outcome 
Measures - Teacher Ri etweteieg §. 20. <6 «Ks 8 


Summary of Observational Variables with Significant 


Partial Correlations with Two or More Outcome 
Measures - Teacher Responses .+-++ + + © * 


Summary of Observational Variables with Significant 
Partial Correlations Across Second and Fifth Grades 


and Reading and Mathematics - Pupil Events .. - 


Summary of Observational Variables with Significant 
Partial Correlations Across Second and Ffith Grades 


e 


and Reading and Mathematics - Teacher Activities . . 


Summary of Observational Variables with Significant 
Partial Correlations Across Second and Fifth Grades 
and Reading and Mathematics - Teacher Responses 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Time Variables 
(Mean Number of Minutes Per Student Per Day in 


Reading Contexts) with Spring Outcome Scores 
Controlling for Fall Scores - Reading Tests 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Time Variables 
(Mean Number Productive Minutes Per Student Per 


Day in Reading Contexts) with Spring Outcomes 


Scores Controlling for Fall Scores - Reading Tests 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Time Variables 
(Mean Percent Total Minutes Per Student Per Day 
in Reading Contexts) with Spring Outcome Scores 


Controlling for Fall Scores - Reading Tests 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Time Variables 
(Mean Percent Gross Time Per Student Per Day in 


Reading Contexts) with Spring Outcome Scores 
Controlling for Fall Scores - Reading Tests 


xiv 


15 


. 


Page 


118 


. 120 


124 


125 


126 


one 


128 


‘nee 


132 


133 


134 


135 


LIST OF TABLES (continued) 


Table Page 


57 Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Variables 
(Mean Number of Minutes Per Student Per Day in 
Mathematics Contexts) with Spring Outcome Scores 
Controlling for Fall Scores - Mathematics Tests .. . 139 


58 Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Time Variables 
(Mean Number of Productive Minutes Per Student Per 
Day in Mathematics Contexts) with Spring Outcome 
Scores Controlling for Fall Scores - Mathematics 
Tee 6 oa 6 es ee ee a a we ee ee «eee tt Ue 


59 Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Time Variables 
(Mean Percent Total Minutes Per Student Per Day 
in Mathematics Contexts) with Spring Outcome 
Scores Controlling for Fall Scores - Mathematics 
Tee 6 ee a a Se eee Re ee oe Te 


60 Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Time Variables 
(Mean Percent Gross Time Per Student Per Day Spent 
in Mathematics Contexts) with Spring Outcome 
Scores Controlling for Fall Scores - Mathematics 
Tee Sa a ee a eee ee ee ee Be 


61 Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Time Variables 
(Mean Number of Minutes Per Student Per Day in 
Reading or Mathematics Contexts) with Spring 
Outcome Scores Controlling for Fall Scores - 
Ateitude Guteemee 5 ok 8 6 8 el he ee TM 


62 Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Time Variables 
(Mean Number of Productive Minutes Per Student Per 
Day in Reading or Mathematics Contexts) with Spring 
Outcome Scores Controlling for Fall Scores - 
hevituse CUteeees | oa ee ee eo ee ew + US 


63 Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Time Variables 
(Mean Percent Total Minutes Per Student Per Day 
in Reading or Mathematics Contexts) with Spring 
Outcome Scores Controlling for Fall Scores - 
Apeitede Gatco 64s 3 ee ee ee Oe 8 eee ow AO 


64 Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Time Variables 
(Mean Percent Gross Time Per Student Per Day in 
Reading or Mathematics Contexts) with Spring 
Outcome Scores Controlling for Fall Scores - 
Attitude Gutecmek 6 ies sb 66 ee ee Ae a 


64A Summary of Context Time Allocation Variables with 
Significant Partial Correlation with Two or More 
Outcome Measures - Achievement Tests ......... 149 


16 


XV r 


LIST OF TABLES (continued) 


Table Page 


64B Summary of Context Time Allocation Variables with 
Significant Partial Correlation Across Second and 
Fifth Grades and Reading and Mathematics - 
ACCitwae MOSGUTOO «es be ee Oe Re 4 ee ee ee 


65 Distribution of Classrooms with Better than and 

Poorer than Predicted Outcomes in Reading and 

PCUENBCICS 6s 8 8 8 Se ee ee es 8 eee 
66 Frequencies of Teacher Activities in Contexts for 


Teachers with Better than Predicted and Teacher 
with Poorer than Predicted Outcomes in Second 
Grade Read ing . - . . a . . . . 7 > . 7. . . . — e e * 156 


67 Frequencies of Pupil Events within Contexts for 
Teachers with Better than Predicted and Teachers 
with Poorer than Predicted Outcomes in Second 
Grade Besgine 95 ss 6 ee ee eS Ce ee ae ee 


68 Frequencies of Teacher Responses in Contexts for 
Teachers with Better than Predicted and Teachers 
with Poorer than Predicted Outcomes.in Second 
GEORG ROAGING 6 42s 6k 520 8 we Bie eh as the ee a ee 


69 Frequencies of Pupil Events within Teacher Activities 
for Teachers with Better than Predicted and Teachers 
with Poorer than Predicted Outcomes in Second 
GlOGG DONGIRE 4 48 6 6 OEE 8 eS oe Se ee ee 


70 Frequencies of Teacher Responses Associated with 
Pupil Events for Teachers with Better than Predicted 
and Teachers with Poorer than Predicted Outcomes in 
Secone Grade SOGGSGe «6c ho ee EES eee eee 


71 Frequencies of Teacher Activities in Contexts for 
Teachers with Better than Predicted and Teachers 
with Poorer than Predicted Outcomes in Second Grade 
MEOHINR 6 6 6 ee ee ee oe 8 Oe ce ee es ee 


72 Frequencies of Pupil Events within Contexts for 
Teachers with Better than Predicted and Teachers 
with Poorer than Predicted Outcomes in Second 
Grade Mathematics: 2 os se SEES Pee ea eee 


73 Frequencies of Teacher Responses in Contexts for 
Teachers with Better than Predicted and Teachers 
with Poorer than Predicted Outcomes in Second 
Grade Mathematics «6 6s 8 eK ee eee ee ee eee 


17 


xvi 


Table 


74 


75 


76 


77 


78 


79 


80 


81 


83 


LIST OF TABLES (continued) 


Frequencies of Pupil Events within Teacher Activities for 
Teachers with Better than Predicted and Teachers with 
Poorer than Predicted Outcomes in Second Grade Mathematics 


Frequencies of Teacher Responses Associated with Pupil 
Events for Teachers with Better than Predicted and 
Teachers with Poorer than Predicted Outcomes in Second 
Cracde: Mathematics ocean ee 


Frequencies of Teacher Activities in Contexts for Teachers 
with Better than Predicted and Teachers with Poorer 
than Predicted Outcomes in Fifth Grade Reading ...... 


Frequencies of Pupil Events within Contexts for Teachers 
with Better than Predicted and Teachers with Poorer than 
Predicted Outcomes in Fifth Grade Reading ......e«. 


Frequencies of Teacher Responses in Contexts for Teachers 
with Better than Predicted and Teachers with Poorer 
than Predicted Outcomes in Fifth Grade Reading ...... 


Frequencies of Pupil Events within Teacher Activities for 
Teachers with Better than Predicted and Teachers with 
Poorer than Predicted Outcomes in Fifth Grade Reading .. 


Frequencies of Teacher Responses Associated with Pupil 
Events for Teachers with Better than Predicted and 
Teachers with Poorer than Predicted Outcomes in Fifth 
Pe TR a i eee a GS. 8 ae Se 


Frequencies of Teacher Activities in Contexts for Teachers 
with Better than Predicted and Teachers with Poorer than 
Predicted Outcomes in Fifth Grade Mathematics ...... 


Frequencies of Pupil Events within Contexts for Teachers 
with Better than Predicted and Teachers with Poorer than 
Predicted Outcomes in Fifth Grade Mathematics ...... 


Frequencies of Teacher Responses in Contexts for 

Teachers with Better than Predicted and Teachers with 
Poorer than Predicted Outcomes in Fifth Grade 

Mathemat Tea ae OR ene a ee OR ee ee ee 


xvii 


Page 


171 


172 


173 


174 


175 


176 


177 


178 


179 


180 


LIST JF TABLES (continued) 


Frequencies of Pupil Events within Teacher Activities for 
Teachers with Better than Predicted and Teachers with 
Poorer than Predicted Outcomes in Fifth Grade 

iC CICS ee oe a a ae Re ee eine 


Frequencies of Teacher Responses Associated with Pupil 
Events for Teachers with Better than Predicted and 
Teachers with Poorer than Predicted Outcomes in Fifth 
Grade Mathematics 


LIST OF TABLES: 
ArrENDIX A 


Rank Order Correlations of Observer Agreement for BTES 
ATL COCOROTIOS 54 6 8 8 Oe Oe ee ee ee 


LIST OF TABLES: 
APPENDIX B 
Average Prorated Incidence of Events Observed in BTES 


Classrooms Stratified by SES - Reading - Grade 2....., 


Average Prorated Incidence of Events Observed in BTES 
Classrooms Stratified by SES - Reading - Grade 5... 


Average Prorated Incidence of Events Observed in BTES 
Classrooms Stratified by SES - Mathematics - Grade 2. . 


Average Prorated Incidence of Events Observed in BTES 
Classrooms Stratified by SES - Mathematics - Grade 5 


Average Prorated Incidence of Contexts Observed in BTES 
Classrooms Stratified by SES - Reading - Grade 2. 


Average Prorated Incidence of Contexts Observed in 
Classrooms Stratified by SES - Reading - Grade 5. 


Average Prorated Incidence of Contexts Observed in 
Classrooms Stratified by SES - Mathematics - Grade 


Average Prorated Incidence of Contexts Observed in BTES 
Classrooms Stratified by SES - Mathematics - Grade 5. 


Average Prorated Incidence of Teacher Activities Observed 
in BTES Classrooms Stratified by SES - Reading - Grade 2. 


Average Prorated Incidence of Teacher Activities Observed 
in BTES Classrooms Stratified by SES - Reading - Grade 5 . 


Average Prorated Incidence of Teacher Activities Observed 
in BTES Classrooms Stratified by SES - Mathematics - 
Grade Zz . . . . . . ° . . . . . o . . . . . . . . . . . 


Average Prorated Incidence of Teacher Activities Observed 
in BTES Classrooms Stratified by SES - Mathematics - 


ee gg ew ha RA cae a ee 


Average Prorated Incidence of Teacher Responses Observed 
in BTES Classrooms Stratified by SES - Reading - Grade 2 


0 


LIST OF TABLES: 
APPENDIX B_ (continued) 


Average Prorated Incidence of Teacher Responses Observed 
in BTES Classrooms Stratified by SES - Reading - Grade 5 . 


Average Prorated Incidence of Teacher Responses Observed 
in BTES Classrooms Stratified by SFS - Mathematics - 
Grade 2 ao 2 . . ao . . . * . . . id . . . . . o . 7 . . . 


Average Prorated Incidence of Teacher Responses Observed 
in BTES Classrooms Stratified by SES - Mathematics - 
Grade 5 . . . . * . . . . . . 7 . . eo . . . o . . . . 


Average Prorated Incidence of Fvents Observed in 
Classrooms Stratified by Location - Reading - Grade 2 


Average Prorated Incidence of Events Observed in 
Classrooms Stratified by Location - Reading - Grade 5 


Average Prorated Incidence of Events Observed in 
Classrooms Stratified by Location - Mathematics - 
Grade Zz 7 7 . . o . o . o s o . . . . . . . a . + e 


Average Prorated Incidence of Events Observed in 
Classrooms Stratified by Location - Mathematics - 
Grade 5 . . o . . * . . . . . . . . 7 . . . . + . . 


Average Prorated Incidence of Instructional Contexts 
Observed in Classrooms Stratified by Location - 
Reading 28 Grade 2 . * > * * ° ~ « 


Average Prorated Incidence of Instructional Contexts 
Observed in Classrooms Stratified by Location - 
Reading “94g Grade 5 . « - . . . . . . . ~ . e . . 4 e 


Average Prorated Incidence of Instructional Contexts 
Observed in Classrooms Stratified by Location - 
Mathematics iy Grade Z . . . . . - . . > + . . ° ao. <@ 


Average Prorated Incidence of Instructional Contexts 
Observed in Classrooms Stratified by Location - 
Mathematics - Grade 5 .. 


Average Prorated Incidence of Activities Observed in 
Classrooms Stratified by Location - Reading - Grade 2 


Average Prorated Incidence of Activities Observed in 
*lassrooms Stratified by Location - Reading - Grade 5 


21 


Table 


cb Se 


114 


115 


116 


117 


118 


119 


120 


121 


122 


123 


125 


LEST -OF TABLES: 
APPENDIX B_ (continued) 


Average Prorated Incidence of Activities Observed in 
Classrooms Stratified by Location - Mathematics - 
Grade 2 . . 7 . . o . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 . . . 


Average Prorated Incidence of Activities Observed in 
Classrooms Stratified by Location - Mathematics - 
CERO “eo ae ee ee ee ee eee ea 8 8 


Average Prorated Incidence of Responses Observed in 
Classrooms Stratified by Locatior - Reading - Grade 2 


Average Prorated Incidence of Responses Observed in 
Classrooms Stratified by Location - Reading - Grade 5. 


Average Prorated Incidence st Responses Observed in 
Classrooms Stratified by Locatio1 - Mathematics - 


Ctade 2°". deck : eee ee ae ee 6 ak a LE oe, Oe 


Average Prorated Incidence of Responses Observed in 
Classrooms Stratified by Location - Mathematics - 
Grade 5 . . . . . . . . . . . , . « . . * a . . . . . e 


Mean Number of Mirutes Per Student Per Day Spent in 
Contexts During Reading - Classrooms Stratified by 
SES oy Grade 2 . . . . 7 . 7 . . . . . . . * + . « ° * . 


Mean Number Productive Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms Stratified 
by SES 3 Grade 2 . 7 . . . * . 7 . . . ° ® e . . . . . . 


Mean Percent Total Minutes Per Student Pe. Day Spent in 
Contexts During Reading - Classrooms Stratified by SES - 
Grade 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - . e . . . « . 


Mean Percent Productive M:nutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms Stratified 
by SES at Grade 2 . . . . . . . . . + . . . . . . . . . 8 


Mean Percent Gross Time Per Student Per Day Spent in 
Contexts During Reading - Classrooms Stratified by 
SES sate Grade Z . . . . . . 7 . . . o © . . . . * _ . . . 


Mean Percent Gross Productive Time Per Student Per 
Day Spent in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms 
Stratified by SES = Grade Z . . . . ” . >» + . s - * a e 


Mean Number of Minutes Per Student Per Day Spent in 
Contexts During Reading - Classrooms Stratified by 


22 


xxi 


SES - Grade 5 


Page 


243 


244 


245 


246 


247 


248 


251 


F fu Yd 


253 


254 


255 


256 


258 


Ay 


LIST OF TABLES: 
APPENDIX B_ (continued) 


Table Page 


126 Mean Number Productive Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms 
SEROUS LGR We One SO OLOOe 86 oe eS wk st ok 4 ee ee os 


127 Mean Percent Total Minutes Per Student Per Day Spent 
in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms Stratified 
by SES we Grade 3 . . . . . . . . + . . . . * a . . . . . . 260 


128 Mean Percent Productive Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms 
Oreecaraee UF. One © OCNE 2 4 Sse eit tc te ees ee 


129 Mean Percent Gross Time Par student Per Day Spent 
in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms Stratified 
: by SES pats Grade 5 . . . + . ° 7 . 7 . . 7 . . . 7 > . 7 . . 262 


130 Mean Percent Gross Productive Time Per Student Per 
Day Spent in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms 
Stratified by SES — Grade 5 7 o . . . . . * 7. 7 . . . . . 263 


131 Mean Number of Minutes Per Student Per Day Spent in 
Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms Stratified 
by SES bas Grade 2 . . . 2 . . . . . . 7 . - . . > . . © 7 + 266 


132 Mean Number Productive Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms 
Steatttins We Set Qe a a eb oC oe wt 


133° Mean Percent Total Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Con -exts During Mathematics - Classrooms 
peat ies i es ccc es 


134 Mean Percent Productive Minutes Per Student Per 
Day Spent in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms 
eg ge ae ee | 


135 Mean Percent Gross Time Per Student Per Day Spent 
in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms 
OEyMeir eee Oy OES © Oe a gk ee eee 


136 Mean Percent Gross Productive Time Per Student Per 
Day Spent in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms 
MEPARil ind OG ee + a 2g ek ee 


137 Mean Number of Minutes Per Student Per Day Spent in 
Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms Stratified 
by SES — Grade 5 . . . . . 7 . . 7 . * . o . 7 . . . . 7 272 


xxi 


20 


Table 


138 


139 


140 


141 


142 


143 


144 


145 


1-.6 


147 


148 


149 


LIST OF TABLES: 
APPENDIX B_ (continued) 


Mean Number Productive Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms 
Stratified by SES Grade 5 . . . . . + . . . > . . . 


Mean Percent Total Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms 
Stratified by SES ~- Grade 3s «se ewe eee we ee 


Mean Percent Productive Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms 
Stratified by SES =~ Crade 3 6 6 eee Ce Oe 


Mean Percent Gross Time Per Student Per Day Spent 
in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms Stratified 
by SES i Grade 5 . . - . . . > . . . . . 7 . 7 . . . 


Mean Percent Gross Productive Time Per Student 
Per Day Spent in Contexts During Mathematics - 
Classrooms Stratified by SES - Grade 5... ..2 2 « « 


Mean Number of Minutes Per Student Per Day Spent in 
Contexts During Reading - Classrooms Stratified by 
Geographic Location - Grade Z «sseeevsveve 


Mean Number Productive Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms 
Stratified by Geographic Location - Grade 2 ..... 


Mean Percent Total Minutes Per Student Per Day Spent 
in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms Stratified 
by Geographic Location - Grad@ 2.5 ib et tt tee 8 


Mean Percent Productive Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms 
Stratified by Geographic Location - Grade 2 ..... 


Mean Percent Gross Time Per Student Per Day Spent 
in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms Stratified 
by Geographic Location ~- Grade Z «1 1 © 6 be 60 es 


Mean Percent Gross Productive Time Per Student Per 
Day Spent in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms 
Stratified by Geographic Location - Grade 2 ...., 


Mean Number of Minutes Per Student Per Day Spent in 
Contexts During Reading - Classrooms Stratified by 
Ceograpnic Location ~ Grade 5 . iss we eee ee 


24 


xxili 


Page 


273 


274 


275 


276 


277 


280 


281 


282 


283 


284 


285 


286 


8 


Table 


150 


151 


152 


153 


154 


155 


157 


159 


160 


161 


LIST OF TABLES: 


APPENDIX B 


(continued) 


Mean Number Productive Minutes Per Student Per Day 


Spent in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms 
Stratified by Geographic Location - Grade 5 


Mean Percent Total Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms 
Stratified by Geographic Location - Grade 5 


Mean Percent Productive Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms 


Stratified by Geographic Location - Grade 5 


Mean Percent Gross Time Per Student Per Day Spent 


7 


. 


in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms Stratified 


by Geographic Location - Grade 5 


Mean Percent Gross Productive Time Per Student Per 


Day Spent in Contexts During Reading - Classrooms 
Stratified by Geographic Location - Grade 5 


Mean Number of Minutes Per Student Per Day Spent in 
Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms Stratified 


by Geographic Location - Grade 2 . 


Mean Number Productive Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms 
Stratified by Geographic Location - Grade 2 


Mean Percent Total Minutes Per Student Per Day Spent 


in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms 
Stratified by Geographic Location - Grade 2 


Mean Percent Productive Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms 
Stratified by Geographic Location - Grade 2 


Mean Percent Gross Time Per Student Per Day Spent in 


Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms Stratified 


by Geographic Location - Grade 2 


Mean Percent Gross Productive Time Per Student Per 


Day Spent in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms 
Stratified by Geographic Location - Grade 2 


Mean Number of Minutes Per Student Per Day Spent in 
Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms Stratified 


by Geographic Location - Grade 5 


20 


xxiv 


Page 


287 


288 


289 


290 


291 


294 


295 


296 


297 


298 


299 


300 


Ai 


Table 


162 


1635 


164 


165 


166 


167 


168 


169 


170 


171 


172 


ae 


174 


LIST OF TABLES: 
APPENDIX B (continued) 


Mean Number of Productive Minutes Per Student Per 
Day Spent in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms 
Stratified by Geographic Location - Grade 5 .... 


Mean Percent Total Minutes Per Student Per Day Spent 
in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms 
Stratified by Geographic Location - Grade 5... 


Mean Percent Productive Minutes Per Student Per 
Day Spent in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms 
Stratified by Geographic Location - Grade : ee ee 


Mean Percent Gross Time Per Student Per Day Spent 
in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms Stratified 
by Geographic Location - Grade 5. «ee se ee es 


Mean Percent Gross Productive Time Per Student Per 
Day Spent in Contexts During Mathematics - Classrooms 
Stratified by Geographic Location - Grade ee ee ee 


LIST OF TABLES: 
APPENDIX C 


Factor Pattern Matrix for Instructicnal Contexts 
in Reading — Grade 2 ° . ” . . . * . . . ° ° . . . 


Factor Pattern Matrix for Instructional Contexts 
in Reading = Grade 5 . . a + . . . . . a . . © s e * e 


Factor Pattern Matrix for Instructional Contexts 
in Mathematics - Grade 2 ..+4-e++sse-e« cee ees se @ 


Factor Pattern Matrix for Instructional Contexts 
in Mathematics ses Grade 5 . . . . . . - . - . e ° . 


Factor Pattern Matrix for Teacher Activities in 
Read ing oe Grade 2 . . . . . . . . . 7 . 7 . © . . 8 * 


Factor Pattern Matrix for Teacher Activities in 
Reading — Grade 5 . . . * . . o 7 7 * . > 7 . 7 . . + 


Factor Pattern Matrix for Teacher Activities in 
Mathematics scons Grade 2 . 7 7 . . . . eo . > o . . o . . 


Factor Pattern Matrix for Teacher Activities in 
Mathematics ~ Grade 5 1 « «ee 6 et th ee tt we 8 


26 


XXV 


Page 


301 


302 


303 


304 


305 


312 


KP 


314 


315 


316 


317 


318 


319 


Table 


175 


176 


177 


178 


179 


180 


181 


182 


183 


184 


185 


186 


187 


LIST OF TABLES: 
APPENDIX C (continued) 


Factor Pattern Matrix for Teacher Responses to 
Pupiit Events in Reading < Grade 2 . 44st st we 


Factor Pattern Matrix for Teacher Responses to 
yupas Svcs in Redding =~ Crade 5 6 6 ke bo* ok we 


Factor Pattern Matrix for Teacher Responses to 
Pupil Events in Mathematics - Grade 2 ......eee 


Factor Pattern Matrix for Teacher Responses to 
Pupil Events in Mathematics - Grade 5 ......e.-ees 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Factor Scores for 
Instructional Contexts with Spring Outcome Measures 
Controlling for Fall Scores - Reading Tests ...... 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Factor Scores for 
Teacher Activities with Spring Outcome Scores 
Controlling for Fall Scores - Reading Tests ...... 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Factor Scores for 
Teacher Responses with Spring Outcome Scores Controlling 
ce Deen See ~ Ceeees Teets 2 koe <oce e e h ekG 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Factor Scores fer 
Instructional Contexts with Spring Outcome Scores 
Controlling for Fall Scores - Mathematics Tests .... 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Factor Scores for 
Teacher Activities with Spring Outcome Scores 
Controlling for Fall Scores - Mathematics Tests ... 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Factor Scores for 
Teacher Responses with Spring Outcome Scores Controlling 
for Fall Scotes = Mathebatics Teste . <<... es. és 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Factor Scores for 
Instructional Contexts with Spring Outcome Scores 
Controlling for Fall Scores - Attitude Tests ...... 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Factor Scores for 
Teacher Activities with Spring Outcome Scores 
Controlling for Fall Scores - Attitude Tests ...... 


Partiel Correlations of BTES APPLE Factor Scores for 
Teacher Responses with Spring Outcome Scores Controlling 
SOr 2eit Scores = Ateicwls Teste... sb 6 kkk Se ew S 


2% 


xxvi 


Page 


321 


322 


323 


324 


326 


328 


329 


331 


333 


334 


337 


339 


340 


Figure 


LIST OF FIGURES 


Diagram of the Relations Among the Major 


Categories of Observation ....+-+-s-s 
APPLE Observation Form ....+«. -» 
Observer Summary Report . .. +++ -« -» 


xxvii 


The objective of the classroom observations made in Phase II 
of the Beginning Teacher Evaluation Study (BTES) was to specify the 
observable teacher and pupil behaviors which affect pupil's learning. 
The APPLE (Anecdotal Processing to Promote the Learning Experience)* 
observation procedures used in the BTES project were developed by 
collecting natural classroom observations in over 150 classrooms 
of about 2000 elementary school children over a three year period. 
The observations obtained during this developmental period were 
used to define categories of observable pupil and teacher behaviors 
based on actual classroom occurrences. Rather than provide observers 
with categories or lists of behaviors developed on a priori basis, 
we developed lexicons for teacher and pupil behavior on the basis 


the events actually observed in the classrooms. The Lexicon for 


12) 
mh 


Observation in the Schools (Lambert and Hartsough, 1971; Lambert, 


Hartsough, Caffrey and Urbanski, 1976) defines the universe of 
observable pupil and teacher behavior which characterized the Stress 
of School Project classrooms. These classrooms were heterogeneous 
with respect to urbanization, social status, ethnic status and 
classroom organization variables. 

The lexicon is an open rather than a closed system for 
classifying observable behavior. The lexicon can be augmented by 

ca 

the addition of new entries within a category or with new categories 


at any time that an observable set of behaviors with similar 


characteristics cannot be adequately assigned an existing lexicon 


*The system was originally developed in the Stress of School Project 
supported by NIMH Grant No. MH 14605, 1968-73. 


29 


term or where new categories of observable behavior are required. 

A “computer name" is assigned to the new lexicon entry by following 
rules for machine sensibility, and the entry is defined operationally 
with examples of actual behaviors observed in schools. As the lexicon 
expands, it will ultimately define all observable school behaviors 

and the addition of new entries will rarely be needed. 

The open-ended nature of the APPLE naturalistic system made it 
ideally suited to the observational task for the BTES project. Rather 
than testing the significant relationship to achievement of a 
relatively small number of predetermined observational categories 
such as those defined in most category systems, all of the observable 
pupil and teacher events recorded by the APPLE observers in the 
classrooms of the BTES teachers could be examined for their 
relationship to school achievement. Therefore, a maximum amount 
of information was recorded, each item of which was available for 


analysis in terms of its relationship to the learning variables. 


Description of the APPLE Observation Systen 


The APPLE observation system (1) requires observers to provide 
low inference descriptions of pupil and teacher behavior, (2) specifies 
classroom organizational strategies, (3) describes teacher-pupil 
and pupil-pupil interactions, and (4) describes the content of the 
instructional program. Thomas (1932) and Haeberle (1959) pointed 
out that in order for the observer to become an efficient recording 
instrument in a classroom the observations must focus on overt, 


visible acts rather than concepts or categories which require inferences 


30 


yn the part of the observer. The effect of the observer on the setting 
in which he or she is observing must also be minimized (Prall, 1959), 
and the unit of behavior which is to be recorded must be defined. 
Biddle (1967) and Prall suggested that investigators specify whether 
the observers are to record the specific behaviors of a single child 
under a variety of circumstances or of a number of children in 

similar circumstances. In either case, tney corsidered the selection 
xf behavior in naturally occurring units rather than on the basis of 
sles to be the more desirable schedule for observation. 

In the developmental work for the APPLE system, we required 
observers to record their observations in descriptive, non-inferential 
terms, and we instructed them on methods of describing complete 
segments of a pupil's behavior. These segments or units of pupils' 
behavior are called “events” in the APPLE observational system. 

After several thousand events were recorded, we began the task of 
assigning descriptive labels to each event. These descriptive labels 
designated entries in the preliminary lexicon for observed behavior. 
We also required that the observers describe the teacher initiating 
behavior and the teacher response to each pupil event and not just 
observe teacher behavior in isolation of and irrespective of its 
effect on or response to pupil behaviors. In this way the observa- 
tion system provided a basis for describing the characteristics of 
teacher behavior in relation to the behavioral characteristics of 
pupils. Since the APPLE Information System (Lambert, F. Converse, 


E. Converse and Hartsough, 1971) was designed to analyze elements 


of a classroom observation singly or in combination with other 


L 


elements, the observation and computer retrieval procedures ensured 
the feasibility of analyzing the combinations of pupil and teacher 
behaviors which were of interest in a particular research or 
evaluation question. 


The concept of an event in the APPLE Observation System. The 


term event has been used by other investigators to define a unit of 
behavior. Biddle (1967) conceived of behavior events as critical 
incidents or episodes requiring a record of the social context and 
environmental forces in order to be understood. Flanagan's 
critical incident technique (1959) requires a judgment, perhaps 

an inference, that an incident is "critical" for a child. 
Kowatrakul (1959) specified six categories of pupil-behavior events 
which were expected to occur in natural settings: task-oriented, 
social work-oriented, social-friendly, momentary withdrawal, intent 
on work in an academic area not assigned, and intent on work in a 
non-academic area. 

Eiduson (1966) conceived of events as actual observed happenings 
as well as phenomena which could be inferred. She included the less 
"objective" types of event phenomena in PsyCHES (Psychiatric Case 
History Event System) because these were typical of psychiatric 
records, containing as they do, factual information, patient reports 
of symptoms, and clinical observations and interpretations of patient 
information. 

The APPLE system originally conceived of an event as including 
anything that happened to a pupil, was observed to happen, reported 
to happen, or any information which would be pertinent to the pupil 


in school, especially the interaction of the pupil with his 


3n 


instructional program, his teachers and his peers. Our work for 
the Stress of School Project indicated that observers were most likely 
to record behavior which was academic-intellectual or social-emotional, 
which characterized a pupil's response to school, or which was 
descriptive of his behavior and appearance. 

The concept of an event was revised somewhat after analyzing 
this preliminary work. In the present sissyeeditiek son. the 
structure of information which we call an event is focused on what 
an observed pupil is doing. Events describe what the pupil was 
observed to do and include statements about the antecedent conditions 
of the observed behavior, the teacher responses to the student if 
any, and the consequences of the behavior. The event in the APPLE 
system is written as a sentence and is accompanied by the antecedent/ 
consequence descriptions. The accompanying information associated 
with the event is part of the data that the observer must record. 
By treating important antecedents and consequences of pupil events 
as different classifications of information, data from the APPLE 
observation system can be analyzed as a multiple category observation 
system in which the informational categories to be used can be 
selected for a particular research objective. 


Mandatory information in the observation record. In the 


development of the APPLE Observation System, we considered obser- 
vations to have limited informational value, if they were reported 
in isolation of descriptions of the setting in which they occurred. 
The design of the system and the computer retrieval options per: 


several types of mandatory information to be carried along with the 


pupil event. The types of mandatory information which have been 


30 


considered relevant to pupil events are (1) the instructional 
activities of the teacher, (2) the particular learning activity of 
the student, (3) the instructional context -- the relationship of the 
teacher to the instructional activity of the child (e.g., whether the 
pupil is working under the direct supervision of the teacher or 
whether he is working independently), (4) the response of the 
teacher to pupil behavior, (5) the location of the event, (6) the 
reporter or observer of the event, (7) the duration of the teacher 
activity, (8) the duration of the instructional context, and (9) the 
duration of the pupil behavior. 

We designed the APPLE system in order to bring into focus as 
many relevant features of the classroom as possible for a particular 
research or evaluation question. The types of mandatory information 
can vary. In the Stress of School Project we requested the observer 
to report the learning activity of the child, the instructional 
context, the location of the event, and the reporter of the event. 
Teaching activities and duration of behaviors were carried in the 
annotation. In specifying the observation porcedures for the BTES 
project, we selected teacher instructional activity (teacher activity), < 
pupil learning activity (pupil activity), instructional context (context), 
and teacher response as the mandatory information for each pupil event. 
Figure 1 presents a model of the major categories of data used by 
the observer in the BTES project. The figure indicates that specific 
responses of teachers and pupils are recorded within a particular 


teaching activity and instructional context. 


34 


Figure l 


Diagram of the Relations Among the 
Major Categories of Observation 


Instructional Context 


Context I Context IT 
Teacher Pupil Teacher Teacher Pupil Teacher 
Activities Events Responses Activities Events Responses 
A E. R. D Ea Ry 
E R E R 
n n n n 


E R E R 
n n n n 
Cc E. R. F Ee Re 
EA Ra a Ra 


395 


The selection of mandatory information for the BTES observations 
employed observational categories for which we had developed lexicons 
in the Stress of School Project. Complete lexicons for pupil events 
and teacher responses, as well as preliminary lexicons fo. teacher 
activity and pupil activity were developed in the Strees of School 
Project. The observations for the Stress of School Project hac been 
obtained during the entire school day. Thus, the pupil activities and 
teacher activities which had been identified represented a more 
comprehensive set of entries than woulc be expected in the BTES 
observations, which focused on characteristics of pupil and teacher 
behavior occurring in the classroom during reading and mathematics 
instruction. 

The task of developing a lexicon for the BTES data necessitated 
the careful examination of all of the pupil and teacher activities 
likely to occur as reading and mathematics were taught. We designed 
the observation form so that the observer was required to write a 
description of the teacher and pupil activity along with the pupil 
event and teacher response. This requirement for additional English 
language entries rather than a single word description or label 
yielded a complete record of the types of teacher activities and 
the specifics of pupil learning activities which occurred during 


the 200 days of APPLE observations. From these records we developed 


additional entries for the lexicon based on the descriptions of 
actual observed teacher and pupil activities in reading and mathe- 
matics in the BTES classrooms. To the extent that these classrooms 
represent a population of classrooms at second and fifth grades, 

the lexicons are comprehensive enough to define the range of teacher 


and pupil activities during reading and mathematics instruction. 


36 


Summary and description of major categories of observation used 


in BTES. In order to enable the reader to understand the scope and 
structure of the APPLE Observation Svstem as it was used in the BTES 
Project, a more complete explication of the five major categories 

of information is presented here. It should be again noted that 
APPLE is not a "category rating system’. However, to best meet the 
objectives of the BTES in defining teacher/pupil behavior relevant 
to pupil outcomes, the variables to be examined in this report are 
the lexicon items from the five major sets of mandatory information 
selected for use in BTES. These five types of mandatory information 
are as follows: 

Instructional Context. As noted earlier, the concept of an 
instructional context defines the relationship of the teacher to 
the instructional activity of the pupil. There are six major 
contexts, ranging from the teacher directing the activities of 
the entire class to an individuc’? student working or playing 
independently of the teacher's direction and independently of 


the other children in the class. Table 1 presents the list of 
instructional context lexicon items. 


Teacher Activity. This category of variables focuses on 
the instructional activities of the teacher, and may be thought 
of as antecedent behavior in a continuum of observation variables. 
As the lexicon is constructed, various teacher activities appear 
under the headings "Instructing", "Organizing", "Preparing", 
"Assigning", "Discipline", and "Miscellaneous". Examples of 
"Instructing" behavior include "Answering questions", "Explaining 
a lesson", or "Introducing new material". Table 2 delineates the 
full range of teacher activities. 


Pupil Events. This category focuses on the observed behavior 
of the pupil. The reader should refer back to the discussion of 
the concept of an event in the APPLE system to gain a more complete 
understanding of the nature and limits of pupil events. Very 
basically, a pupil event is what the pupil is observed to do at 
a point in time. The complete lexicon of pupil events contained 
in Table 3 gives an idea of the large range of pupil behaviors 
described by the APPLE system. 


3¢ 


10 


Teacher Responses. This category describes the consequent 
teacher behavior to a pupil event. The lexicon includes descrip- 
tors which can be subsumed under three major headings: "Classroom 
Management Strategies", "Teacher Attitudes", and "Teacher Communi- 
cations". Examples of teacher responses are "Criticism", "Ignoring", 
and "Praise". Table 4 provides the APPLE Teacher Response Lexicon. 


Pupil Activities. The various learning and other activities 


a pupil engages in during the school day are described by the pupil 
activity lexicon. Some examples of reading activities are "Phonics" 
and "Punctuation". Examples of mathematics activities are "Division" 
and "Graphing". The APPLE Lexicon of Pupil Activities is provided 

in Table 5. Pupil Activities were used in this study to sort the 
observations into those associated with reading and those associated 
with mathematics instruction. 


1l 


Table 1 


APPLE Instructional Context Lexicon 


Abbreviation Context Name 
T-CLASS Teacher-Class 
A-CLASS Aduit-v! ass 
T-GROUP Teacher-Group 
A-GROUP Adult-Group 
T-IND1ViD Teacher-Individual 
A-INDIVID Adult-Individual 
I-CLASS Independent-Class 
I-GROUP Independent-Group 
I-INDIVID Independent-Individual 
TRANSI- Transitional 
TIONAL 

TEST @ Test 


- 39 


12 


YIFA BuTAIOM HLMYYOM 

YAOMIuUoR WAMAWOH Zut3se] ONILSAL 

sesTo19xy SIOWIXA 03 3uyATeL OL ATVL 

uoT}IeII0D 10114 WIooWNA Butstazedns SIAUdNS 

ZuTATS Juowustssy NOISSV BuTpremey Cav Mau 

ONINSISSV ig al he gp eo 

02 SuTpesy OL ava 

pieoq 38 BUTIFIM qaavod ly pista Mens SNVGNVO 

; NALSI1 

quoudtnbe dn 8utq3a¢g dn Las 8upiNn30071 aaNLIa1 

sTeTisqew Butuinjzsy NUALAY (2033eu 398fqns) 

‘ : pyr a —. Sa'INVId Teyiszew meu BuypoOnporjuy JGOULNI 

Tetrzeyew SsuTINgTs3sTd a@1uLsid SUTATZ uot ONszsSUyT AIOLSNI 
sTetiaqew BuyzIe{[TOD LOATIOO Sutire 

wool Buy3ue12° FJONVUUV FeteH ONId Tah 

; Supupe Tdxg NIV1dXa 

ONTYVdaud BuppeeT uofssnostq ssnosia 

Buz3eIOT aLVLOIG 

JUuaweouNOUUe TeANpsd01g JNNONNYV But e213 suoweg LSNOWAG 

Zutzypue8io DTuapeoe-uoON CVOVNON yiom But 9e1109 LOAM) 

(TeuoTIezTues10) BuyATS uoz de1TG SNLOUWIA But aeTNozaTy LVINOUD 

uosseT Buysuery SSH'TOHO yom BupyyIeyD ONDA 

Sut {T Teo uoFIUAIIy NINA LIV suofisenb 3upysy ONIASV 

BuTzy~ues1i0o DJTWepeocy YOaCVIV suoT ysenb Butiemsuy MAMSNV 
ONIZINVDY:O ONT LONYLSNI 

auen AITATIOV uoT eTAeiqqy awen AIfFATIV uot eTAsiqqy 


uodzTxay ATATIOYV ABYyOPA] AlddV 


f PT9PL 


pd 
« 


a 


13 


"Te yo ‘3zequey *W °N Aq 9L6T ‘YL6T “TLET ©) 343 F1hdop 


SiIINpe yATM BuyTzT[eypoos 
sttdnd yzImM BuTztT{Tepoos 
woor JO 3NnO 

dn urea) 

BuTyYIOM YSep Ay 


SNOANVTTa 9S IN 


VTVIOOS 
dTV1IO0S 
WOOULNO 
dNNva To 
Asad LV 


SuTITeM 

BufATs eTny 

But aeTtnd 

sse[T> BuTutTdtostq 
sueu 3no BuT{[Te9 


ANITd1IOSIC 


awex AITATIOY 


uoT Ae TAsiIqqy 


owen AITATIOY 


ONILIVM 
A1LOa1Nu 
ONLAINO 
dd19SI1G 
TVOAWNVN 


uoz Ie TAel qqy 


penut 3uos 


Z PTIPL 


14 


satqey 410M 
ButTiepuem 
But Asa4uNTOA 
BuTATeL 

YSTM Juepnis 


SLIGVH WHOM 
ONTYACNVM 
ONIYATINNIOA 
ONIATVL 

HSIM LINAdCALS 


ToTAeYyeq BUTIITS Had ONILLIS Are TNqQesoA AUVINIVOOA 

souBISTSeYy JONVLSISAY aoueuiojied 4sey ONWE Ad LSAL 

souPINssesy AONVUNSSVAY suioj pue sedeyg  SWuOd-SadVHS 

ZutuoT senh ONINOLLSaNd Aze[nqesoa Butpesy gVOOA INdVay 

AqtTenqoung ALITVWALONNd uofsusyeiduos Zutpesy dNOd ONIdVaY 

uoTqedtotIIeg «=NOILVdIO1IINd ZufATOS WeTGoCI1g ONIATOS dud 

uotjuaj eUy NOLINSLLVNI STITNS OFUCUG TIINS DJINOHd 

aoueutTjaedwy YFONANILUAdWI Butpeet Te1Q0 8 ONIGVaN TVAO 

puodsez 02 aan{Tfzeg dNdSaXOLTIVA sjdeou0d zequUMN SIdONOD YAWN 

$$3134 SSaYDF A1oweay AYOWIW 

quowese3uy INAWNADVONGA uofTsueyerdwod Bupue sty] dNOD NALSII 

soT}0e3 AreuoTSi29ATC SOILOVL AId esensuey] FOVNONVI 

AVFTTAFIOPAISTG ALIALOVULSIG BupuofFAouNF TeNAIeTTIIVT  ONNA TLOLINI 

qonpuod eatadnastq LOGND ALdusd 83 s9193UT SLSTYALINI 

juowesesuestqg $LNWADVONASIG a8peTmouy Te19suey DC IMONA-TUND 

BuTMOT[OJ-UOTIIeAFG = =«=©YNMTTA-NLOUG UF IENT BAY NOILVNTVAG 

SutTwesipAeqg ONIWVANCAVA uot zonpord jueBzeatq dOYd INDYAIC 

uot e1adoo) NOILVuad009 uofzoOnporad queBreauoD = dOYd LNDYAND 

yonpuog LONAGNOO ZuyureetT ydeouc0d = NNINYT IdDND 

8uT eeyD ONILVAHO SETITFATIOV SAILIAILOV 

wope10g woaauod aoueutozied Stwepedsy ONWYAUd AVOV 

SSousATIUIIIV SSANALNLLV ATTTAV ALITIGV 
aofTAeyeq B3ut33e8-uoTIUeIIY Had INLO-NIV SLSAUALNI ONV SAILITIGV 
NOILONULSNI OL NOILVLNATYO ‘JONVWUOTUAd DIWACVOV 

oUWeN USA uot epTAelqqy UPN JUeA uot IB TAexAQGGY 


uoodfTxe] Jueaq Ttdng WIddV 


€ eTqQeL 


C2 


BUTTTPA 
SuTutyM 
uniques 
3uTAINS 

SITqey SnNoAIAN 
s8uT[Teej 4iAny 
BuTT33T9 

uot zelysnig 
Asequeg 
wsetsny uy 
SutAay 
Sututetdwuoy 
JOFAeYeq e11ezTg 
iasuy 

II9TTV 


WOIAVHAG JAILOAIAV 


eueN JUeAY 


ONT TIAA 
ONINIHM 
WNYLNVL 

ONT WINS 
SLIGVH SAYAN 
ONI1TSad LYAH 
ONITISIO 
NOTLVULSNa 
ASVINVA 
WSVISNHING 
ONT AYO 
ONINIVIdWOO 
Had AYUVZI14E 
YAONV 

LOaAAAV 


uoT ye TAeIqqy 


BuTseey 

BuTTIIeFL 

Buyyeeds 
sdtusuofzertet Tepzoos 
sseudus 

aofTaeyeq Tenxess 
ALTEATY 

dtey ttdng 

qoequos jTeotskug 
zofaeyeq AeTd 

SSE[O UT s0RPTd 

3UTF IPPON 

uot eATWT 

ButIYysTI 

ButAdog 

aoqTAeyeq BuTTToOr3u09 
Ajypwzojzuoy 
uot3 fT yadwuoyg 
Buf ye -21e89 
IOFABYeq TeTIOS-T Uy 
uo, sse183y 


SNOILOVUSINI TVWIOOS 


ONISVAL 

ONT TLIVL 
ONINVads 
SdHSLTY TOOS 
SSANAHS 
AVHGd TVAXas 
AUTVATS 

d1TdH Tidfd 
LOVLINOD SAHd 
AVHAd AV'Id 
SSV1O NI Old 
ONT 10qan 
NOILLVLIWI 
ONILHO1A 
ONTAdOOD 

Had ON TOULNOD 
ALIWYOANOD 
NOTLILAdWOO 
ONTIAVL-ANVO 
Had DOS-1LLNV 
NOISSHADSY 


SUeN BUSA 


uot Ie TAsIqqy 


panuftquos -- € xT qe] 


uoTJezTuesIO 1I0AVOW-TeNSTA 
uOTSTA 

ztoTAeYyeq YeTTO] 

aoyTaeyeq BuTyYONs 

zofaeyeq daets 

ssaussaT sey 

uoTIeUuTpAoeD TeoTsdAug 
eoueieedde [edtsdug 

su8{ts DTuez10 


340 LON-SIA 

NOISIA 
AVHAG LATIOL 
Had ONTAONS 
AVHAG dagts 
SSANSSAUTLSAY 
Nqdwo09 SAHd 
ONUddV SAHd 
SNSIS INVSYO 


@pnzt33e xes 
qdasu0d-jTes 

SSSUSIEME-JTES 
AITTTqQTsuodssay 

suoTssessog 

adh AqtTTeuosisg 
SITISTAsIoOeAeYS ART TeuCSisg 


SQALILLIV XaS 
LdZONOO-ATIS 
SSNYVMV~-ATaS 
ALTHISNOdSAY 

SNOISSASSOd 
adAL AL'INSHd 
LOVUYHO ‘INSUd 


S10}JDPJ TBOTZOTOANeN SYLOVA OUNAN sua ISTSi28g AONALSISuad 

JOFAeYeq 100K AVHAG YOLOW pooy doow 

TOlqUOD estndwy TWINOD STIdWI UoFIBINI ey NOILVUNLYW 

aesuny UAONAH eouepuedepuy AONACNAdaaNI 

SuTiesy ONIYVEH eintTyezy jo 1e9q FUNTIVA vad 

ssoupepuey SSANCAQNVH Aduapuedagq AONAZGNAd aa 

ansq ey ANDI LVa SsousATsUezTeq SSAINAISNZAIC 

Jofaeyeq 3utieq  AVHAG ONILVA ZuyyeuW-uoFstoeq YWYW-NOISIOId 

I} I019-oO3NYy OI LOWA-OLNY apnitiiy AGALILIV 

aatiiy aYILLV Aqeazxuy ALZIXNV 

TaaetT AIFATIOV =" TAIT ~ALAILOV Jue {sn f py INAWLSArav 
ALIAILOW GNV SASQNLILLY ANV 
SOILSIWALOVYVHO TVOISAHd SLIVUL ALITWNOSUAd 

QUBPN USA uoT AepTAeiqqy SWPN USAT uoTIeTAeIQgGy 


16 


penutquod -- € aTqr] 


<=! 


"Te ye ‘azeqmey “WH *N Aq 945T ‘TL6T (©) 3U3TAAdoQ 


SuTTNpeyos 

UOT} epusmMMo ay 
juewespnr AsAitesqg 
aouepuslqiy 
quoweseuew AI[Npy 


UOT IUSAAGAUT SATIeIISTUTUpPY 


YAHLO-FALILVULSINIWGV 


uoT3Tpuod TedTsdAyd 
qutetTdwos yeotskug 
peeTqeson 

uoTIeIT pay, 
Juewjzeel. [eOTpeyZ 
AlOISTY TRITPEHK 
Aanfuy 

ssoUuTTI 

uot aezTTeaydsoy 


SSANTII GNVY HLTVAH 


ONITNGIHOS 
NLIVONAWNOOAY 
INWOGN YASdO 
JONVONALLV 
LNWOVNW LICV 
NINAYLN NNCV 


NLIGNOOD SAHd 
INIdWOOD SAHd 
aaa 1d4SON 
NOLLVOIGaAN 
IWNLIVAYL Caw 
AYOLSIH daw 
AYANI 
SSANTTI 
NIVZITLIdSOH 


qaoddns [ooyos 

uot ioefey 

aDey 

AT TWeJ UT BeTd 
3senber [Te }UeIeg 
einsseid [Te .useleg 
uote 301d 1eAO 
uoytzednd50 

uot jzeiedes TeITAeW 
aZenBue, u8tei0g 
uotTjenjtTs ATTwey 
sdtysuojt eter ATyuey 
uoTIeTTeysuod ATTweJ 
qydasuod ATTwey 
punoisyoeq AT Twey 
Ai1ojsty uoyzIeonpy 
@IIOATG 

yaeeg 

IoTAeYaq sdUsIAazUOD 
ete) PTFYO 
WSFTOYOOTY 

uotjadopy 


SOILS TUS LOVUVHO 
(NV AYOLSIH ATIWNVA 


luOddNs ‘THOS 
NOILOAAy 
av" 

KTWVd NI Old 
Lsndau LNYvd 
ussud LLNYVd 
NLOLOUd YFAO 
NOILVdNd90 
NLVUdS ILYVW 
ONVI NOIFWOI 
NIVALS ATH 
SdHSLTY ATWA 
NLTLSNO ATW 
LdONOD ATHVS 
GONOVE ATNVA 
RMOLSIH Onaga 
AOUNOAIA 
HLVaa 

Had ONYANOD 
auvo d1IHO 
WSIIO0HOO TV 
NOI LdOav 


aUeN .UeAq 


uot Ie TAelqqy 


SUPN 3UdAq 


uote TAeI qqy 


penuy yuod -- ¢ eTQe] 


asenboey 
BUTATS aoOTIrwWAOFJUY 
qutetdwoy 


uOTIeOFUNUMMIOD AaYydIeey-JuUereg 


SNOILVOINNWNOD UXHOVAL 


adue IST Soy 
quewe3pnr 
quowjutoddestq 
aDueptjsuoy) 
uzleou09 


asuey) 
299F5V 


SAGNLILLVY WHHOVAL 


Zuyulem 
But ees 
piaemey 


Lsandau 

WHOANI 
INTdWOO 
HOL-uvd 


ONLSISHY 
LINaWOGALr 
INddVSId 
ONGIANOO 
NYAONOD 
AONVHO 
LOadAAV 


ONINYVM 
ONILVAS 
CavMay 


sesnjoy 
UOT IIIT Poy 

But zyusos,9y 

souPAINSsesy 

ButTuot ysenh 

esTterg 

yoeqpesey saTITSsoOg 
quowystund Teotshug 
Siywieg 

yoeqpeey sATIeZEN 

uo seAoW 

uoTIe TPN 

JuoweseueW 

UOT IUSAISRUT 

But qon1sysuT 

uof}zeoTuUNMUOD JO uoTITQTYUT 
UOTIONAASUT PpeZTTeNpTATpuy 
BuytisouZy] 

dtey 

Suyutetdxy 

queweseinosuy 

suTTdzostgq 

Jeajoq 

WSFITFIFAO 

But 3992109 

Zuyustssy 

aoueqdedocy 


Ssasnaau 
Lowa 1agw 
ZINDOOF 
auNssvay 
NOILSand 
asilvud 
daad sOd 
NNd SAHd 
SLIWUGd 
daad DAN 
NO SAAOW 
NLVIGaW 
LNWOVNVW 
NINAWINI 
LONULSNI 
WNOOLEHN 
LSNI ANI 
INIYONDI 
d'1aH 
NIV1dX3 
INWOYONG 
NIdIOSId 
lvaiad 
WSOILIYO 
LOTIAO) 
NOISSV 
Ldd00V 


puewtidey GNWIUdd SAISALVALS LNAWASVNYW WOOUSSVTIO 


auenN asuodsay uo}t je TAelqqy sUeN esucdssy uot 3B TAVI Qqy 


uod}Txe] ssuodssy Aaasyoee] A1ddV 


y eTIPL 


suwetTqoid pio 
out] 


("930 ‘uetTpow Sueou) SOTISTIeIS 


uot }oe1qqns 
sdtTysuot3eley 

Aatttqeqoad ofqer *qusad198d 
uoTIeOFTATITNW 

Aauop 

quoweinsesy 

JaoysyI0OM ye 

YIeK 

sutydeay 

A1jawo0e4y 

uot .oelg 

SuTiojoey 

UOTSTATG 

STePuTIIG 

sqoejy OTseg 

UOTITFPPV 


SAILIAILOV SOILYNAHLVK 


gqoudduom 
AWIL 
LVLS 

ans 

SLV Iau 
INA add 
LTA 
AANOW 
LYNSVaAK 
LAFHSAMW 
HLIVN 
HdVuo 
WOdd 
LOVad 
YOLOVA 
AId 
W104d 
JISVd 
qdyv 


ZuTueew p1roy 

uoFIBIFFTQETTAS 

yooqyiom B8utT Teds 

8utT Teds 

BuTpesl TeuoT Iesld9y 

JaoyusyIom BuTpesy 

yooqyiom BuTpesy 

But peesy 

SETITATIOe SsauTpesy 

uotT}zenzoung 

A13920qg 

sotTuoug 

dtysuewueg 

ZuTpeel [e410 

iewwe 15 

yst {sug 

uot 3eIoTG 

STTTyS ArTeUOCTIITG 

BuLITAM eATIeAID 

seop} upew-uoTsusyeidwo) 

SJR} TeASVITT-uoTsuaysaiduoy 

BuUTITAM peusTSssy 

SuTpeel quse[Ts psaustssy 

SSILIAILOV ONIGVAU 
AVTATIOY 


dVOOA 
TEV TIAS 
WANTTAdS 
T19d$ 
aqvaad OFa 
LAAHSAMY 
4aM ONY 
ONIGVAN 
SSNIGAY 
LONAd 
AYLAOd 
SOINOHd 
Nad 
GVauTVaO 
YUVAKVASD 
HSITTONG 
NLVLOIG 
AUNOT LOG 
ALTYNO 
Vad 1dhoo 
LOVAdWOO 
ONT ITE 


i 


uodtT xa] AITATIOY 


S arqey 


A1038-®-TT2L 
A1035S 
yoeeds 
SuT3uts 
wy2Ayy 
Spiodey 
SSdD9y 
esnoydeTd 
Buy juteg 
ITSsny 
quoweaow Apog 
SuTyoieW 
souey 

sUT e817 
AejTdaeig 
Zutoueg 
s3yeag 
BuTyoo) 
Butioj,to9 
APT) 
Sutddets 
SyOOTE 


owt I-yAT Tu ‘yoeus 
3s9y 

aeTNH 

dn out] 

Aep 943 JO pug 
dn ue®et) 

TeuoT 3ysuelzy 


AYLSTTAL 
AYOLS 
HOFadS 
ONIS 
WHLAHY 


sadoo wd 
SSH0aa 
ASH AVW1d 
INIVd 
JISNAK 
AOW AdOd 
HOUVW 
SSWV9 
NILA 
AV1daTaA 
AONVG 
SLAVS 


SAILIAILOV TYNOILISNVUL 


@dUSTIS 
setTpnygs TeTI°0s 
swioj pue sedeus 
uot 3eonpe Teotshug 
Aydez80ay 

Apn3s poogj 

etaow *‘dyt1i3s wITty 
A8o0TOOJ 

Aejtd ‘eweig 

SjuseAe JuerIN) 
3009 S10T9D 
YO109 qaode1 yoog 
AVTO wy 
dV19 ASoTodo1zyjuy 


SHOO TE SOTJewey ew pue Buypeslr ueyI 


29430 SHILIAILOV DIWACVOV 


MOVNS 
LSaa 
LaInd 
df ANIT 
Avda CNG 
df NVaTO 
SNVUL 


SONAIOS 
anLs 90S 
SadVHS 
aa SAHd 
9049 
qood 
W114 
AS01004 
VAVaG 
SLINGAF 
Sao TOD 
Lda ood 
LUV 
OWHLNV 


oueN 


AQTATIOV 


uoT Ie TAelIqqy auen AITATIOV 


uot Ae TAelqqy 


panuy 3uod -- ¢ eTqQRe] 


21 


“Te 39 ‘azequey “WH *N Aq QL6T “PL6T ‘TL6T ©) I8FAAdoD 


lepeey ATYeeM 

Aqieg 

youn] 

AlBIQTT 

SOTIFATIO® TeNPFAFpuUT 
uoTIIeTW 

uoTSsnostqg 

aduerayuoy 

AT quessy 


SALLIALLOV SNOANVITAOSIN 


owen AITATIOYV 


waIaqvay 

ALYVd 

HONA'T 

AUVUGIT 

LOV ANI 
LOa1g Sufzaeys ONIYVHS 
ssnosia seTataztqoe Aep jo Butuut3eg ONINAdO 
ONYANOO TTB9-TlOY TI10¥ 
NIGNASSV eBpetd aoqald 

SAILIAILOV SNINAdO 

uot AeTAsiqqy owen AITATIOV uot eTAesiqqy 


peanut quod -- ¢ aeTqe] 


<a 


fo 
to 


Observing the Duration of Classroom Behavior 


For some time we have considered the duration of pupil behavior 
to be an important classroom variable. Duration of behavior can be 
defined as the proportion of classroom time a particular behavior was 
observed to occur or else as the duration of continuous pupil behavior. 
There are several ways in which to record the duration of behavior 
in studies of pupil and teacher performances. 

One can focus on the duration of pupil behavior, or one can record 
the duration of teacher behavior such as the length of time teachers 
are involved in particular teaching activities. Since the objectives 
of the BTES project were to define teacher performance variables in 
relation to reading and mathematics pupil outcomes, we selected 
the duration of instructional contexts as the most efficient way to 
appraise the setting in which instruction was offered and in turn to 
estimate the effect of the length of time teachers were engaged in 
different patterns of teacher-pupil interactions.* (Refer to 
Table 1 for the list of contexts.) The extent to which teachers 
elect different patterns of teacher-directed activity in reading 
and mathematics has been found to vary over classrooms For example, 
some teachers conduct their reading classes almost entirely in a 
teacher-group context while others rely heavily on independent- 


individualized assignments. Therefore a time log of the duration 


*If the observation task had been based in high schools where the 
context of instruction rarely changes in an instructional period, 
time logs of the duration of differing contexts might not be as 
useful data for the study of teacher performance. At the high 
school level, the observation task might be more productive of 
crucial teacher data if time logs were based on time spent in 
differing types of teacher activities. 


o0 


23 


of various teaching contexts appeared to be extremely relevant 
data on the amount of teacher-directed learning activity. 

After each observation period, the APPLE observer comp.2ted a 
summary report form on which he or she indicated the time each observed 
pupil spent in different instructional contexts. In addition, the 
learning tasks in which each pupil engaged and the materials involved 
in the task were recorded. These summary report forms were used in 
the debriefing sessions with the teacher on the observation day. 

The teacher could make corrections in the information recorded, with 
particular attention to those sections about activities and materials 
which the observer might not have been able to complete correctly. 

In the debriefing sessions the observer and teacher also reviewed 

the time in context entries to see if they agreed with the teacher's 
plan for the day. 

While we expected that the way the teacher administered the 
classroom, in terms of the distribution of time in different contexts, 
would have an effect on instruction, we also believed that different 
types of pupils would respond more favorably to one type of context 
than another. In order to check the reasonableness of this assump- 
tion, we asked the observer to estimate the proportion of pupil time 
in each context which would be considered productive involvement in 
the assigned learning task. We did not expect precise estimates 
since some inference is involved in making such judgments. However, 
we did believe that the estimate of proportion of productive time 
in different instructional contexts would be a more accurate estimate 
than asking the observer to make an overall rating of productivity 


at the end of the observation period. 


o1 


24 


Procedures for Conducting the BTES APPLE Observations 


In the adap.ration of the APPLe Observation System to the BTES 
project, the BTES objectives were compared with the types of data which 
could be derived from the APPLE Observation System. We considered the 
teacher performance variables which our previous research suggested were 
likely to affect achievement and attitude outcomes, the procedures for 
observation which were most likely to produce that kind of crucial 
information, and the methods of training to be employed in preparing new 
observers for the task. The identification of salient features of the 
APPLE Observatior System which were applicable to the BTES objectives 
has been made in the previous section and an overview of the APPLE 
Observation System has been provided. This portion of the report de- 
scribes the training activities and the methods by which the obser- 


vations were obtained. 


Preparation of the Observation Manual for the BTES Project 


Prior to the training sessions for the BTES observers, we prepared 
an APPLE observation manual for the BTES project. This manual included 
a description of the system, the goals of the observers in the BTES 
project, the procedures for collecting observations, and guidelines \ 
which defined the methods for making, recording and summarizing obser- 
vations. This document, "Instructions for APPLE Observers in the 
Beginning Teacher Evaluation Study", is reproduced in Appendix D of this 


report. In addition to the manual we prepared the APPLE Observation 


Form and the Observer Summary Report which are described below. 


OW 


The Observation Forms 


The APPLE observation work for the BTES project involved two forms. 
The first was the APPLE Observation Form (Figure 2) on which the observer 
described the pupil events and instructional contexts along with the 
attendant teacher activities, pupil activities and teacher responses. 

On this form the observer made a record of the time at which the context 
changed for each observed pupil. The space on the form for time entries 
was to be filled in only when there was a change in instructional context. 
The Observer Summary Report (Figure 3) summarized the duration of differ- 
ent instructional contexts for reading instruction and for mathematics 
instruction. At the end of each observation period, the observer 
completed this form using the context time entries and the time 
designation entered at the top when each new APPLE Observition Form 

page was begun. 

The reader will note that a space on the observation form provides 
for an observer rating of the "quality of pupil behavior". We asked 
observers to rate as " + " pupil behavior which they considered to be 
positive and appropriate for classroom expectancies. They rated as 
" . " only those behaviors which were inappropriate to the ongoing 
classroom activities. If there was no basis on which to make a judgment 
of positive or negative pupil behavior, the observer recorded a "0". 

We recognized that adding this rating to low inference observation 
procedures might introduce unreliable and less objective data to the 
observations. We nevertheless included these ratings in an effort to 
incorporate as much of the observer's experience in the classroom as 
possible. 

The observers made their records continuously on the APPLE Obser- 


vation Forms during the observation periods. In some classrooms reading 


a 
vu 


9) 


Lol ©) 143t24do 


el 
/ 


Aq 


WON 


Aqniey 


. 
A 


y 


Figure 2 


APPLE Observation Form 


26 


eASPAS IVY AOU VGelL 
:esuodsey 1syoPe] 
Hoe 
1oFAPYyeg 
Trdng 
tqueag jo uoz adt19seq zo AqzrTend 
| 
pug 
3283S :euTL t.. 
ISNOdS3U ALIAILOW 1X3.1LNO9 ALIAILOV L933 8NS 3JWWN IN3A3 3009 
Y3HIVIL Y3HIVIL Wdfd 
:AQFATIOV ASsyIBa] 
:esuodsey zsyoRel 
Hoo 
IOFAeYyeg 
Ttdng 
:queaq jo uotydyz1lseq yo AazTend 
| | pug 
| 3183S :ewTy] 
2SNOdS34 ALIAILOW 1X3 1NO9 ALIAILOV L938Ns JWYN IN3A3 3009 
SSHIVIL Y3HIVIL Wdfd 
1 =} 
:AVTATIOV AsyoRe] 1 
:asuodsay rzayoPrey 
Ho 8 
AopTAPYyeg 
THdng 
>queaqg JO uotadyz13seq yo AqzTendH 
pug 
3183S :ewT] 
ISNOdS3U ALIAILOV 1X3 1NOD ALIATLOV L93C8NS JWYN LNAI 300) 
YSHIVIL YZHIVIL 1Wdfd 
ows] 
WHO4 NOILWAYIS8O J idd¥ 
¥3HOW3L iva ¥3AUISBO . 


SB8BTD 9Y2 JO 48e2 qaequey “Ww'n Aq ‘HZ6T Oo 348 t1Adoy 
ay SB aues ay JOU JQuew 


-uZfsse cno1i8 aeyq pue dnoi3 paingoniaqs Ajaqetdwod 391a% SeTIFATIOS = ¥ 
sSePTD IO pty se omes syj quowustsse trdnd «= 7 QUPPFAS 39INJONAAS asTqeispysuod = € 
zayzo Aue se aues ey. you pure SSETD UT asta auocdisAa quaptaAs 21nj9n1qs emMoSs = 7 
PIZFETENPT AF put quemuStsse [{dnd = ¢ se awes ay quauustsse [Tdnd «= T queptAe ainjoniaqs ou = [ 
a K3ZATIOV SUFUAPST JO UOFJEFIUSIII ITs pofied UOFIBAISSGO UT 9INjoNAIg JO JUSIXZy 
t 
4 
T 
; C 
Z 
T 
€ 
rd 
T 
| € 
v4 
uw T 
“ 3 
O 
a. Zz 
co) 
T 
a 
* € Te 
pa 9 z un 
 § : 
ee ae € 
ob WM Z 
~: 
Bh. T 
: | 
" I 
S f a ari uy] Buypusesy K3FATIOV 
y 0 |°20]) *uUtW! *301| *UTWh ayy jo snoog pesy TeyieIeW Itdng Arewyiag 
oe 1 Sis oe | 3x@3U09 me jv 
Sa Se | AVTAT3 Jxa uo} 
| -onpoig uy amy] 88M JPUM POTIaqg UOT IBAIeSqO Buting [}dng peAaasqg YoRY ACa| d I}dng jo euweN| @epoD 
| ~ wl x 3x93U0) YoRA 104 
~~ 19UI0 12020 
25 usytueds uspueds 
~ «4k TE yori” (*Uuyw) ewe, TBIOL 
presen a27UM papug uot IBAIZEqO aut] 
a “quasqy TeIOL ag payTyTosug Te Oy upvag UOTIFAIIZSqGO euTL e2eq 
ye apezy rr aes Tooyos 27 138T¢ 1aAi1298q90 


LUOdaY AYVWANS YAANISAO 


and mathematics instruction were carried on simultaneously.* More 
typically, teachers had specific periods for reading and mathematics 
lessons. 

The Observer Summary Report detailed the time allocation in the 
different instructional contexts separately by reading and mathematics. 
Ta "open" or "individualized" classrooms, observers differentiated 
between reading and mathematics instruction by using the time entries on 
the observation form and the descriptions of the pupil activity. The 
Observer Summary Report provides spaces for the observer to enter the 
pupil activity for each context and the materials which were being used. 
The caption "Focus of learning activity’ was completed with the teacher 
in order to specify as precisely as possible the objectives for the 
instruction and to use this information to correct any observer mis- 
apprehensions about their records of pupil activity. 

At the completion of each day's observations, the observer entered 
the code number of each pupil on the APPLE Observation Forms and re- 
viewed the completed English language descriptions of pupil events, 
teacher activity and teacher responses. These materials, in addition to 
the two completed Observer Summary Reports, were sent to the Berkeley 
office of Educational Testing Service and transferred to the University 
of California at Berkeley where the observations were encoded and 


prepared for data processing. 


* Ordinarily these simultaneous pupil activities would make observations 
very difficult. In this study, any difficulty was resolved by observing 
specific pupils who had been chosen for observation prior to the actual 
observation. Thus, whether the reading or mathematics instruction was 
observed depended on which pupils were being observed. The methods for 
selecting the pupils to be observed are described later in this chapter. 


o6 


29 


Observer Training Activities 

With only a few exceptions, the APPLE observations were made by 
observers new to the activity. We selected observers on the basis of 
prior experience in school settings as classroom aides, as graduate 
students in education and psychology with field experience in schools, 
or as teacher education students. We selected observers who were likely 
to have no heavy investment in particular types of reading and mathe- 
matics inscructional methods. In addition to these selection criteria, 
we considered the general demeanor and appearance of the observers and 
the inferences likely to be made about their neutrality and objectivity. 
Since an observer was to make only one observation in some classrooms, 
his or her ability to "fit in” with the school and the classroom was an 
important factor in minimizing potential classroom disruption because of 
the observation activity. All potential observers were interviewed by 
ETS professional staff and the authors of this chapter. 

The selection process was intended to identify observers who pre- 
sented an unbiased attitude toward teachers and pupils, who seemed able 
to handle communication crises and scheduling breakdowns, and who could 
cope with eventual unexpected occurrences such as teachers misplacing 
the scheduling information about observations, or observers arriving for 
observation on a day when there was a substitute teacher. 

The training sessions involved several steps. Over an initial 
three day period, we met with observers to review the "Instructions for 
APPLE Observers in the Beginning Teacher Evaluation Study" and the two 
APPLE forms and to discuss the methods for the observations. We had 


copies of the BTES project goals at hand to describe the purpose of the 


o¢ 


observation procedures and how the observations related to the total 
study. We reviewed these materials with the observers, went through 
examples of observation records, and scheduled actual practice obser- 


vation sessions in elementary school classrooms which were not in the 


BTES sample. In these training sessions we paired-off an experienced 


observer and a trainee in several second and fifth grade classrooms. 
On the initial observation day, the trainee was required to explain 
the purpose of the observations to the principal and the teacher. 

Then the two observers selected six students from the volunteer class- 
room for the trial observations. They made records during reading and 
mathematics lessons and returned for a training session at the local 
project office in the afternoon. In these afternoon sessions, we reviewed 
the manner in which the trainee had explained the project, discussed 
any particular problems which might have occurred with the teachers, 
and discussed the content of the observation records. This procedure 
was repeated on a second day and included another training review 
session. 

The final training period centered on observation encoding. Even 
though the observers would not be required to encode observations, we 
believed that it was important for them to understand the methods which 
were to be used so that their records would be completed properly. We 
continued to remind them that a good observation was one that could be 
encoded, that is, one which was described clearly enough so that lexicon 
names could be assigned to the pupil events and the mandatory information. 

Then all observers compieted at least four BTES observation days, 


after which we held a second group training session. At this time we 


31 


brought examples of their observations and pointed out instances where 
the information was incomplete or ambiguous. We discussed scheduling 
and procedural problems in the schools, and made an effort to prevent 
future difficulties by communicating our findings to the ETS Berkeley 
Office, where the system for scheduling the observations was implemented. 
The group training sessions emphasized common kinds of observer 
problems. There was constant monitoring of each observer's records as 
they were returned for processing. Any incomplete records were an- 
notated and returned to the observer for resubmission. This procedure 
established a constant monitoring and feedback system for each APPLE 


observer. 


Observation Schedules 

The schedule for observations followed the research design deve- 
loped for this project (see Volume I for the.description of this design). 
Schools and teachers were informed of the observation days. APPLE 
observers received copies of the observation schedule and a list of the 
target pupils to be observed from the ETS project office in Berkeley. 

The ETS project team had established two patterns of observation 
scheduling. The first was a four-day schedule of paired observations 
for a 25 classroom subset of the BTES teachers selected to be demo- 
graphically representative. Four of the eight observations for each 
classroom were APPLE observations distributed throughout a two month 
period. On two of the four days an APPLE observer was paired with a 
RAMOS observer; on a third day, two APPLE observers were present; and on 


the fourth day, two RAMOS observers were in the classroom, * 


kThe observation system RAMOS (Reading and Mathematics Observation 
System) is described elsewhere in this report. 


o9 


Three observations were made in the remaining 70 classrooms. 
Depending on the schedule, we conducted one or two days of APPLE 
observations in these 70 classrooms. Volume II, "Description of the 
Field Study and Sample", details the procedures for the observation 
schedules and provides information about the way the schedule accom- 
modated the data collection for the two different observation systems. 

At the conclusion of the APPLE observations, each classroom had 
been observed one, two or four times and within these sets of obser- 
vations there were 20 different classrooms which were observed simul- 
taneously by two APPLE observers. Although simultaneous APPLE 


observations had been planned for 25 BTES classrooms, only 20 were 


actually observed concurrently. This departure from the original 


plan occurred because of difficulties encountered by some observers 
in keeping scheduled appointments, largely as a consequence of the 
fuel shortages experienced in California during this time period. 
These simultaneous observation days permitted an analysis of several 
possible sources of error in the observation system. Appendix A 
presents the results of an investigation of the reliability of the 


observational data for the BTES study. 


Identification of the Pupil Sample for Observetion 


We recognized that observing all pupils would not be appropriate 
for a short term observation schedule such as the one used in BTES. 
It was necessary to select a subset of pupils for observation who were 
representative of the pupils assigned to each classroom. This subset 
of pupils was called the target group. 

Using Fall reading performance data and teacher rankings of 


expected level of reading achievement, eight target pupils were selected 


60 


in each classroom. All pupils in each class were classified in the 


following matrix: 


Achievement 
H L 


Expectation 


The median was used to separate the data into high and low categories. 
The achievement data used were the total scores for reading and mathe- 
matics on the California Achievement Test. The sorts were made separately 
for reading and mathematics, but the target students were selected by 
using the reading matrix except where the data were not available. In 
such cases mathematics data were used. 

The target pupils included one boy and one girl each from the top, 
from just above the middle, from just below the middle, and from the 


bottom of the distributions in each classroom. The target group included 


minority pupils in about the same proportion as in the total classroom. 


An alternate pupil.was chosen for each target pupil in the event the 
target pupil was absent. While there had to be alternate selection 
procedures in the absence of reading scores, or t acher rankings, the 


procedure described above was used to select most of the pupils.’ 


Observation Procedures for the Target Pupils 


In advance of the observation day, usually the day before, each 
observer contacted the teacher to be observed and asked him or her to 
have available large pressure-sensitive labels to make a name tag for 


each pupil in the classroom. In case the teacher had forgotten to 


61 


provide these labels, the observers carried extra labels. In this way 
the target pupils could be identified without their knowing that they 
were the special object of the observer's attention. 

The observers assumed a role in the classroom somewhere between 
participant observer and "potted palm". Depending on the activities 
being carried on by the pupils and the teacher, the observer positioned 
himself or herself in the classroom for maximum visual access to the 
activities and behavior of the target pupils. 

To do their job, the observers had to move into positions where 
they could see and hear the target pupils, hear the teacher when he or 
she talked to the pupil being observed, and see the materials the pupil 
was using. When a pupil to be observed was working independently, the 
observer had to move to a position from which he or she could see what 
the pupil was doing. The rule was always to be in a position where the 
pupil could be seen or heard and yet be as unobtrusive as possible. 

The observers were instructed not to intrude in any way in any 
classroom activity. Pupils, however, view any adult present in the 
class as a potential res.urce. On occasion, pupils asked the observer a 


question. The observers were instructed to answer very simple questions, 


many of which were social in character, such as "Will you be here tomorrow?" 


If the pupil asked a simple question about his assignment, for example, 
how to spell a simple word, the observer answered because this response 
was the least disruptive. But the observer did not remain to help the 
pupil. If the question was more complicated or required an explanation, 
the observer referred the pupil to the teacher. The observers reported 
that these content questions were relatively infrequent. Teachers did 


not complain about the observers interfering with instruction. 


In general we tried to create a situation in which the natural 
conditions of the classroom were unchanged even though an observer was 
present. The role of the observers had been explained to the teachers; 
the observers were thoroughly instructed on their role. We trusted the 
teachers to treat the observers as they usually treated other adults who 


came into their classrooms. 


Frequency of Observation Records 


There were no fewer than three periods of observation during the 
school day. If the information was not available in advance, the 
observer consulted the teacher about the times when reading (usually 


two periods) and mathematics (usually one period) were taught. These 


periods, plus any other periods that the teacher designated as ones in 


which the observer could observe pupil and teacher behaviors associated 
with reading and mathematics, constituted the times for observation. 
Normally this amounted to four half-hour sessions a day, though there 
were some classrooms where observations were continuous over an entire 
morning or where the daily schedule in the classroom was otherwise 
different. 

The observation record describes pupil behavior and teacher-pupil 
interaction as well as the instructional role of the teacher. On the 
observation form the observer noted the teacher activity which initiated 
or accompanied the reading or mathematics lesson. Typically the 
observers simply described the teacher activity at the beginning of 
an observation period, when the context changed or when the teaching 
activity within the context changed. These activities included explaining 


the instructions for a lesson, organizing the lesson activity, working 


62 


36 


with pupils on an assignment, conducting a discussion, lecturing, or 
leading a question and answer session. (See Table 2 for the Lexicon 
of Teacher Activities.) 

After noting the general teacher activity and recording the time 
of day, the observer made an observation record of the behavior of each 
pupil on the list of target pupils, including in each observation the 
mandatory information for behavior events. With the exception of 
context and Pupil Activity, this mandatory information was recorded in 
English language phrases or sentences, as was the description of the 
pupil event. Following this initial record of each pupil's behavior, 
the observer continued to make observations, usually no less than two 
for each five minute period, and as often as needed to provide a 
complete record of each target pupil's behavior. Each time the context 
changed, the observer made a record of the time the new context began, 


and a record of each pupil's behavior in the new context. 


Principle: of Sampling Behavior to be Observed 


The principle used to make rules for sampling observable events is 
that each event has an equal chance of being observed. This principle 
means that an unbiased sample of events must be produced by the ob- 
servational processes used. There are two ways in which this principle 
may be violated in making observations in the classroom. The observer 
may, through a personal bias, look at only those events which catch his 
or her attention. The observer may fail to see an event because of the 
physical limitation of the observational setting. 

The first of these potential difficulties may be eliminated or 


am2liorated by using one or more of the following procedures. The 


37 


observer is instructed to record every event occurring at a specific 
point in time, and is further instructed to make time-samples at regular 
intervals. The result is a record of everything occurring at periodic 
intervals which, if sufficiently close together, yields an approximation 
of a continuous record. 

Another way to control for bias in the sample of events is to take 
place-samples, that is, to record everything occurring in a locale 
within a larger environment. This procedure yields a different picture 
than a time-sample. 

A third way to reduce bias is to record the actions of a person 
or persons. When this procedure is used the persons must be a 
representative sample of the persons in a larger set. 

Each method makes an assumption. The first method assumes that 
time-samples represent the frequency with which the events actually 
occurred. Since events do not occur with equal frequency by units of 
time, the sampled events approximate to an unknown degree the "true" 
frequencies. Investigators try to reduce this error by sampling as 
frequently as possible. 

The second method assumes that events are distributed equally 
across similar iocales. The error in the observed sample of events is 
a function of the differences between events within different locales. 

The third method assumes that the actions of a subset of persons 
represents the domain of events occurring in the larger collectivity. 
Amount of error is a function of the representativeness of the sample 
of persons observed. 


No one of these assumptions is more tenuous than the others, if one 


has data on the domains being sampled. But the necessary information 


65 


38 


required to describe a sampling plan is net available for the first two 
methods. We do not have, for example, a continuous record of classroom 
events so that we can estimate how much bias is introduced by varying 
the length of an observation unit and the intervals between units. Nor 
do we know how events vary within similar locales in the classroom. 
Thus, samples of events which are produced by these two methods may 

be biased and it is impossible to estimate the bias. 

The third method, however, requires only that we have information 
on the group to be observed, construct a sampling frame embodying this 
information, and then randomly sample within this frame individuals to 
be observed. Previous sections in this chapter described this sampling 
procedure for this study. APPLE observers are, therefore, providing a 
representative sample of pupil events. 

Two other features of the APPLE system should be pointed out. 


The observation provides a continuous record, not a sample, of the 


instructional context and the teacher activity. Within instructional 


context and teacher activity, however, the observational method pro- 
vides a representative sample of teacher actions or responses as they 
occur with respect to the target pupils. The assumption is made that 


by selecting pupils representative of the class in terms\of specified 


characteristics, we sample representative teacher-pupil interaction 
\ 


dyads. This assumption is identical in character to that mad about 

pupil events. But we do not know how this domain of teacher-pu 1 

dyadic events varies as a function of the characteristics of pupils. 
We have provided in Volume I, therefore, the rationale for 


the sampling matrix used. The logic of the rationale is that 


66 


teacher-pupil interactions are more likely to vary as a function of 
pupil characteristics used. Even if empirical data showed that such 
dvads varied more as a function of other characteristics, this study 


still provides a representative sample of teacher-pupil interactions in 


the domain determined by variations in pupils’ achievement and teachers’ 


expectations. 

Pupil events are sampled only in the sense that a representative 
sample of pupils is observed. Teacher actions are sampled only in the 
sense that the teacher's actions with respect to the representative 
sample of students is sampled. But it should be remembered that 
teacher actions described by instructional context and teacher 
activity are continuously recorded. 

The other potential source of error in an observation system is 
observer error, the most important of which is failure to observe 
events. The training of observers is designed to reduce this error, 
as are the rules for observing. Simplifying forms and methods of 
recording are other ways of reducing the likelihood of such error. 

The ordinary test of the amount of this error is made by placing 
two or more observers in a class, and then comparing their records to 
assess their agreement. As noted earlier, this procedure was used in 


this study and its results are reported in Appendix A. 


Procedures for Observing Sampled Behavior 


An enormous number of discrete, specific responses or actions, 
sounds, and movements occur in a classroom. No observer could record 
all of these, nor should he. The observer's task is to note and observe, 
among all these potential observables, those likely to be effective 


stimuli if they were noted or observed by a teacher or pupil. (An 


67 


40 


effective stimulus is one which evokes a response.) Since the purpose 
of this study is to find actions or responses which are effective 
stimuli, as few responses should be excluded as possible. The observers 
were instructed what not to miss, and when in doubt, to record. 


The observers were given the Lexicon for Observation in Schools and 


were asked to read through it. The purpose of this reading was to 
familiarize the observers with the kinds of events that occur in class 
rooms. These are the kinds of events they were to record, though they 
were not limited to these types of events. The observers did not 
memorize the list. The goal was to get the "feel" of the range of 
events which they were likely to see and should record. The manual the 
observers used in the field contained a list of the names of the entries 
in the lexicon. The reader should understand that observers did not use 
these event names when recording in the field. The observers wrote 
literal descriptions of what they saw atd heard. 

Almost any behavior of the target pupil which was observed could be 
recorded, but we instructed observers to look especially for behaviors 
in the following areas: academic-intellectual, social-emotional, general 
response to learning, and physical appearance. (Refer to Tabie 3 for 
the entire set of pupil event names found in the lexicon.) 


Each pupil behavior was accompanied by a description of the teacher 


response. The Stress of School Project results showed that only about 


one third of naturally observed pupil behavior is accompanied by an 
identifiable teacher response. We wanted all teacher responses to pupil 


behavior to be recorded for the BITES project. Therefore, we required 


41 
observers to pay attention to non-verbal as well as to verbal inter- 
actions with pupils. Non-verbal responses, such as "smiles," "notices" 
(without a particular facial expression), "frowns" or "ignores" were to 
be recorded if the observer was certain of the expression and if the 
reactions were in response to the pupil event. (See Table 4 for the 
entire set of teacher response names in the lexicon.) For some pupil 
events, however, recording a teacher reezvuse was inappropriate. In 
these cases, the observer simply wrote "not applicable” or "none" or 
some other statement describing the absence of a teacher response in the 


space for the record of teacher response for the observation. 


Encoding APPLE Observations 


All of the observations were encoded in the University project 
office by three research assistants, each of whom had had considerable 
experience in this work. The main task in the encoding process is to 
assign a computer lexicon name to each mandatory entry. The first entry 
on the BTES APPLE Observation Form is "Pupil Code". The code the 
observer had entered was checked against the pupil code on the class 
list. 

The computer name for "Event Name" was assigned by referring to the 
lexicon. The event name is a label which describes the behavior, 
incident or information recorded by the observer. The event name is a 
highly condensed source of information which allows for convenient 
computer manipulation of the anecdotal material. As the reader way have 


noted, the computer abbreviatiors for each item in the pupil event 


69 


lexicon appeared with the descriptors in Table 3 of the previous section. 


The Lexicon for Observations in the Schools (Lambert and Hartsough, 1971; 


Lambert, Hartsough, Caffrey and Urbanski, 1976) was always at hand as 
the encoding process continued. It contains definitions, examples of 
usage, and sample observations collected from the Stress of School Project. 
The encoder made a decision about which term to use as a label for 
the particular observation by comparing the content of the anecdote 
to the definitions and examples of usage for the pupil event name 

or names which his coding experience suggested might apply. Most 
single observations required no more than one pupil event name to 
characterize the content of the occurrence noted by the observer. 

In general, pupil event names within the nine major categories of 

the pupil event lexicon (see Table 3) were mutually exclusive in 
their application. However, the sets of codes across categories 

were not necessarily treated as mutually exclusive items. If the 
content of the observaticn described more than one facet of the 
pupil's behavior, for example, "Pupil talks incessantly to her 
neighbors but completes her subtraction worksheet with no errors", 
then more than one pupil event name was assigned and each was counted 
as a separate tally in the compilation of frequencies of pupil event 
names. In the aforementioned example, the observation would be 
labeled both "-Talking" and "+Number Concepts". In general, however, 
most observations were written in such a way that only one pupil 
event name applied because only a single facet wf the pupil's behavior 


was observable at the moment. 


~] 
© 


’ ' 


The next mandatory entry is "pupil activity".* All entries in 
this field were compared with the lexicon for pupil activities (Table 5) 
and the computer abbreviation entered into the appropriate space. 
The context field was to have been completed by the observer and the 


encoder simply checked to see if proper computer abbreviations were 


used. The lexicon names for "teacher activity'’ were compared with 


the English language descriptions and new entries were added to the 
teacher activity lexicon when necessary. The computer name for the 
teacher activity (Table 2) was entered next in the mandatory field. The 
final item of mandatory information was the "teacher response". The 
encoder compared the verbal descriptions with the lexicon (Table 4) and 
entered the computer name in the mandatory field. 

When a set of observations had been encoded, each observation 
was defined by the computer abbreviations for pupil code, event name, 
pupil activity, instructional context, teacher activity and teacher 
response. All of this information was keypunched and became a line 
of computer information defining one pupil event. 

The encoder also checked the Observer Summary Report against 
the Observation Forms for accuracy of the time entries for the different 
contexts. The number of minutes each pupil was judged to be productive 
in each context was computed from the information available on both 
forms. These data then were prepared for keypunching. They provide 
evidence of the time distribution of different instructional contexts 
for each observed pupil, as well as the estimated amount of productive 
time for each pupil in the cbservation periods for reading and 


mathematics instruction. 


kIn the space captioned "Subject" on the Observation Form, the observer 
entered the name of the target pupil. The name was changed to a code 
number at the end of the observation day. 


(et 


Preparation of APPLE Observations for Data Analysis 


At the conclusion of the observation period, we had collected 
thousands of observed events and approximately 400 summary reports 
on the time distributions of reading and of mathematics instructional 
contexts in the BTES classrooms. As soon as the APPLE Observation 
Forms and the Observer Summary Reports were encoded, they were key- 
punched and ready for processing into the APPLE Information System. 
The computer programs arranged the observations, by date of observa- 
tion, within each pupil's file. Pupil files were arranged by code 
number within classroom units, When the computer files were complete, 


they were ready for analysis by pupil characteristics. For the BTES 


project our concern was to summarize the observation data using the 


classroom as the unit of analysis in order to generate classroom 
variables for our study of teacher performance predictors of achieve- 
ment and attitude outcomes. The preparation of these data using the 
classrooms as the unit of analyses required several steps. 


Specification of the most frequently appearing observational data. 


Our first step in the data reduction was to have the computer make 
counts of the number of different types of pupil events, teacher 
activities, instructional contexts and teacher responses. The pupil 
activity information was used to sort the observations associated 
with reading and mathematics instruction. It must be noted that 
many of the BTES classrooms were not self-contained, and in still 
other classrooms several teachers integrated reading and mathematics 
instruction into single teaching sessions. The APPLE observations 
and computer programs made it possible to define the reading and 


mathematics observations on the basis of the actual learning activity 


(av 


of the pupil. (The pupil activities subsumed under ‘the general instruc- 
tional areas of reading and mathematics are listed in Table 5.) 

We began the data reduction process by examining the raw frequency 
counts from the entire observation record which includes reading, 
mathematics and other observed activities. These counts are found on 
Tables 6, *, 8 and 9. We then obtained counts of the most frequent 
pupil events associated with reading and mathematics activities, 
eliminating from this step all events not observed in those lessons. 

We followed the same procedure of making raw frequency counts for 
contexts, teacher activities, and teacher responses for reading and 
mathematics. At this point in our work, we had to establish arbitrar- 
ily a frequency cut-off point for inclusion of observation variables 
in the subsequent analyses. Our goal was to include the maximum 
number of variables and yet have observation measures which occurred 
with sufficient frequency to serve as meaningful measures of class- 
room differences. We decided to include any observation variable 

if its raw frequency in either reading or mathematics instructional 
activities was 100 or greater. The list of pupil events retained 

for the BTES analysis and their APPLE lexicon definitions are presented 
on Tables 10 and 11, followed by frequency counts and definitions 

for contexts (Tables 12 and 13), teacher activities (Tables 14 and 
15), and teacher responses (Tables 16 and 17). 


Transformation of raw observation frequencies into comparable 


measures across classrooms. Prior to consideration of appropriate 


procedures for transforming the observational data into measurement 
units which were comparable across all classrooms, we made a careful 


check of the representativeness of the target pupils. As described 


V3 


Table 6 


Frequency of Events Over All BTES Classrooms 


Greater Than 100 Between 50-100 
Frequency Event Name Frequency Event Name 


3073 Engagement 91 Egress 
1519 Work Habits 71 Scheduling 
1320 Attentiveness 67 Enthusiasm 
1097 Inattention 61 Responsibility 
962 Academic Performance 58 Student Wish 
889 Conduct 54 Restlessness 
871 Direction Following 54 Sitting Behavior 
849 Number Concepts 52 Distractibility 
555 Talking 51 Ability 

464 Oral Reading 51 Activities 

453 Questioning 

369 Participation 

349 Volunteering 

186 Phonic Skill 

184 Speaking 

165 Cooperation 

157 Interests 

155 Reading Comprehension 

145 Wandering 

138 Social Relationships 

133 Pupil Help 

121 Vocabulary 

108 Disruptive Conduct 

106 Reading Vocabulary 


Table 7 


Frequencies of Contexts Associated with Events 
Over All BTES Classroous 


Greater than 100 Between 50-100 
Frequency Context Frequency Context 


3972 Group 98 T - Individual 
3930 Class 82 A - Individual 
3008 Group 
2885 Class 

549 Individual 

474 Not Applicable 

322 A - Group 

280 Test 

269 Transitional 

148 A - Class 


Table 8 


Frequencies of Teacher Activities Assoctated 
with Events Over All BTES Classrooms 


Greater than 100 Between 50-100 
Frequency Activity _ 


Frequency Activity 


Work with Group 92 Around 


or Individual ‘ 78 Directions to Class 
Asking 73 Out of Room 
Not Applicable 61 Socializing with Adult 


Checking 55 Collecting Materials 
Circulating 


Helping 

Academic Organization 
Supervising 

Discussion 

Instruction Giving 
Question & Answer 

At Desk 

Explaining 

Listening 

Correcting 

Testing Group or Class 
Reading to Class or Group 
Dictating 

At Board 

Answering 

Lecturing 

Distributing to Class 
Non-Academic Organizing 


Table 9 


Frequencies of Teacher Responses Associated 
with Events Over All BTES Classrooms 


Greater than 100 Between 50-100 
Frequency Response Frequency Response 


10909 (None) 86 Permits 
925 Not Applicable 69 Encouragement 
894 Positive Feedback 67 Acceptance 
513 Redirection 54 Negative Feedback 
355 Recognizing 
353 Ignoring 
315 Help 
307 Praise 
255 Instructing 
209 Questioning 
135 Moves On 
126 Correcting 
125 Repr imanding 
124 Explaining 


50 


ZTT gs 
Ist 99 
ELS 08z 
9LT SI 
€l LY 
19 3 
€8 IS 
6ST SOT 
ZiZ LLT 
0 TY 
9ZE €gT 
OTT 4S 
7 8z 
O8Z WAS 
€OT 9¢ 
LZ Tit 
ZZ 5 
= eae ¢ apeiy Z 
soTIeWsUIeH 


9S 
cs 
€62 

€TT cs 

94T T9 

CVE cOT 
T9 68T OTT 
92 TIT LS 
cE 6€T BZ 
ce 6€T 69 
9S 6LT CTT 
c6 97E 6LT 
6Z OOT 77 
€vT 662 €v1 
9S raat 99 
9€ T2T €Y 
LSZ T9ZT €€l 
LY 6ST LL 
col VAS T6T 
€T €9€ €02 
ee: am Ms i Zz 

ZuTpeey 


8s 
$8 


T9Z 
6Z 
9S 
T9 
02 


79 
ST 
9S 
9ST 
9¢ 


82 
87S 


> 
G 


€vT 
O9T 


operay 


sjdeou0) rzequnyn 
sjdesu0) ze°quNnN 
szdeou0) rtequnyn 
uoTsusyerzdmo) B8utpesy 
STITAS DFUCUd 


ZuTpesy Te10 
SIFQEH 410M 
uot US AIeUl 

Juewesesuz 
JONpuey) 


SuUTATeL 
uot Us I IeUy 
yoOnpuoyg 
SIFGPH 410M 
Bufzsequnytoa 


uot yedyot weg 
quewese 8uq 

BuUTMOTTOY uot we1TG 
SSSUZATIUSIIY 
adueUAOJIeg DTWepedy 


SUsAq 


oO 


+++ 


oo°o°cd + 


+++++4+ 


——— 


UOTIONAASUL SOTJeWayIe_ pue BuTpeey 
uy squaaq Ttdng jo sqjunoyj Aduenbeag mey 


OT 9T9PL 


78 


fable 11 


APPLE Lexicon Detinition of Selected 


Pupil Events 


ACADEMIC 
PERFORMANCE: 


ATTENTIVENESS: 


DIRECTION- 
FOLLOWING: 


ENGAGEMENT : 


PARTICIPATION: 


VOLUNTEERING: 


WORK HABITS: 


CONDUCT: 


LNATTENTION: 


TALKING: 


CONDUCT: 


ENGAGEMENT: 


Level of performance in school tasks; response to assign- 
ments or lessons. Correct. 


Act of paying attention to the subject being taught or 
discussed, as shown through physical orientation, ges-~- 
tures, verbal response. Used only in positive sense and 
in situation where teacher is instructing or leading 


lesson. 


Behavior related to following directions given by the 
teacher. Cooperation with teacher directives, whether 
academic or behavioral, 


Act of being involved in subject of lesson. Used when 
pupil working independently of teacher. 


Description of an act of joining in a general class or 
group activity. 


Any spontaneous offering by the child to do a job or to 
give information, as in response to teacher's call for 
volunteers or to a question put to the entire group or 


class. 


Positive manner or method of pursuing tasks, i.e. comple- 
tion of work, efficiency, organization, neatness. 


Negative school behavior which cannot be placed under a 
more speci.‘c event. 


Not paying attention to subject being taught or dis- 
cussed, as shown through orientation, verbal responses, 
gestures. Usually implies a long-term distraction from 
activity being directed by teacher. 


Inappropriate or forbidden speaking, such as speaking out 
of turn or during a quiet period. 


Neutral school behavior which cannot be placed under a 
more specific event. 


Act of being engaged in subject of lesson, but with less 
degree of involvement or attention than + ENGAGEMENT. 


79 


Table 11 (Cont.) 


O INATTENTION: Not paying attention to subject being taught or dis- 
cussed. Usually implies a short-term distraction from 
activity being directed by teacher. 


QO WORK HABITS: Neutral manner or method of pursuing tasks. 


+ ORAL READING: Positive quality of students reading out loud; fluency, 
accuracy, expressiveness, pacing, etc. 


+ PHONIC SKILLS: Positive evidence of skill in sounding out new words; 
knowing the sound connected with letters. 


+ READING 


COMPREHENSION: Pupil's correct understanding of what he has read. 


+ NUMBER CONCEPTS: Positive knowledge of numbers and number relationships. 
Includes identification of numerals, counting, skill 
with fractions, geometrical properties, etc. 


~ NUMBER CONCFPTS: Absence of knowledge of numbers aud number relationships, 
in comparison with age and class level. 


O NUMBER CONCEPTS: Partial knowledge of numbers or number relationships (e.g. 
a concept partly understood) or absence of knowledge of 
concepts more advanced than required by age or class level. 


Copyright (c) 1971, 1976 by N. M. Lambert 


GO 


Tez] 


S 


¢ epein. 


Sd] IeWsyIeHW 


uoyT 3ON1AASU] 
uy S$3xeQUOD 


TY 


¢ 3 pel ay 


SuTpeesy 


SOTJeMSYIeW pue ZuTpesy 


TO sjunoj Aduonbely ary 


cT 9T9PL 


dncij-13eysee8], 
SSETD-Asy es] 
TENPTATpuy—Juepuedaspuy 
dno1iy-juepusedapuy 

Sse [j-uepuedsapuy] 
dno1i5-i1Tnpy 


62 xe qU05 


Table 13 


APPLE Lexicon Definition of Selected 
Contexts 


ADULT-GROUP: The class is divided into groups and an adult other than 
teacher is directing the activity of the group in which the 
child being observed is participating. 


LNDEPENDENT- 

CLASS: The entire class is working or playing independently of the 
teacher's direction. Teacher usually present but not direc- p 
ting. 

[INDEPENDENT- 

GROUP: The group of students in which the child being observed is 
participating is working or playing independently of the 
teacher's direction. 

INDEPENDENT- 


INDIVIDUAL: The student being observed is working or playing independ- 
ently of the teacher's direction and also independently of 
the rest of the class. 


TEACHER- 
CLASS: Teacher is directing the activity and the entire class is 
participating. 
TEACHEK- 
GROUP: The class is divided into groups and the teacher is direct- 


ing the activity of the group in which the child being ob- 
served is participating. 


Copyright (c) 1971, 1976 by N. M. Lambert 


82 


be 


8EZT Z€9 
al 08 
96 6S 
8 4 
6%T 08 
9cE 092 
06T TZT 
6£ 97 
19% i A 
O9¢ L6T 
6£T TS 
68T TST 
ZSZ 67T 
98 99 
TOT 09 
$8304 ¢ epeay 


SsdTIeWSAYIeW 


909 862Z T2tT 
$9 CTT 08 
LE T9Z STZ 
97 9LT £9 
¢9 89T TOT 
96 LEZ TZ1 
69 TZ cv 
CT 6LT L€T 
9727 €6Z cst 
€9T 8TZ €€T 
88 89 LG 
8 6ST 847T 
€cTI HEY 902 
< GL 9S 
T¥ S6T 88 
apely TeIO] 6 apeay 
BuTpesy 


uoTIONAASUT SOTIeWsyAeW pue BuTpeey uy 


dnoiz5 10 
LL9T TENPTATpUL YIFM Butyx10M 
CE ButstAiredns 
€4 zemsuy 9 UoTIseNnhH 
€TT ZupusIsyy 
19 BUTATD uoTtIoNAAsul] 
9TT 3utd{ eH 
9Z Zututetdxy 
zy uct ssnostq 
80T BuTAeTNoAY) 
$8 Sup yxI9y9 
94 pzeog 3aV 
TT yseqd 3V 
82z SuTySy 
6T Zuyiemsuy 
LOT ButzqTueZig DJTwepeoy 
“Opezy —sSaTITATIoOV BuUTYORaL 


SATITATIOY BuTYyoeay, Jo sjunoy Adusenbarg mey 


7T 9T9PL 


cs) 


56 


Table 15 


APPLE Lexicon Definition of Selected 
Teacher Activities 


ACADEMIC 


ORGANIZING: 


ANSWERING: 


ASKING: 


AT DESK: 


AT BOARD: 


CHECKING: 


CIRCULATING: 


DISCUSSION: 


EXPLAINING: 


HELPING: 


INSTRUCTION 
GIVING: 


Teacher getting class or group organized. Giving directions, 
explaining and doing other activities which direct the stu- 
dents into activities. 


Teacher answers question(s). May refer to a single answer to- 
a single question or to a general situation where teacher is 
answering questions put by several students over a period of 
time. 


Teacher is asking questions of a single student, a group, or 
the class. 


Teacher is doing work at desk. Used when teacher's activity 
is unspecified or unknown and/or when she is available to 
help students at her desk. 


Teacher is working at blackboard, either alone (e.g., writing 
on board) or with student(s). 


Teacher is checking work to see if material is understood, to 
see if instructions are being followed, to see how well work 
is being done, or if work is correct. 


Teacher is circulating around room, interacting with stu- 
dents, asking and answering questions, giving help. Used 
when a more specific activity cannot be identified or when 
several activities are happening one after the other, too 
quickly to be specific. 


Teacher is leading a discussion. Emphasis on student res- 
ponse and comprehension, not simply on facts. 


Teacher is explaining something, either in response to a 
question or as part of a p.ocess of giving instructions. 


Teacher is helping a pupil or pupils in unspecified manner. 
Used when more precise activity, such as explaining or ans- 
wering, cannot be distinguished, or when several helping 
activities are happening too quickly to be specified. 


Teacher is giving instructions either about an assigned ac- 
tivity or about classroom organization. 


_ Oa 


LISTENING: 
QUESTION AND 


ANSWER: 


SUPERVISING: 


LADY TN! tm 
WORKIN , WL 


Teacher listens to a student, either during oral reading or 


while student speaks to her or asks a question. 


Teacher is asking a series of questions, which students ans- 
wer. Used primarily in group or class context and distin- 
guished from ASKING by serial nature of questions. 


General situation where teacher is watching over class or a 
group. May occasionally ask or answer questions, but gen- 
eral emphasis is on observation rather than interaction 
with students. 


General unspecified instructional activity of working with 
an individual, a group or the class. Used when no other 
teaching activity is specified. 


Copyright CS) 


1971, 1976 by N. M. Lambert 


gel 8S 987 BUTIDEATPEY 
Sol 9 OST L9 BuTZTUs0IeY 
Ov 9T ZOT 19 BuTUuoT sand 
48 €€ Z9T 68 esTeid 
C472 6TT LOS 797 ye qpeey sATITSOg 
Z9OTE TI6T "S04 €Z6T oUON 
ST OT 97 6T Yeqpesesy sat esen 
€z cl L8 €4 77 ug seAcW 
Sil TZ €vT $9 8 ZutiouZ] 
"71 99 LET 19 9 dTeH A9sYyIee] 
8S hs ; $8 v€ TS BututTdtostq 
6ST T6 O€Z 86 ZET uy JONI WsU] 


[eI] ¢ apeay ; > 1! TeIOL ¢ apeiy Z epeiy sosuodsey Iseyoeel 


SOT IeWOUIeW BuTpesy 


UOTIONAYSUT SOTIewWseyIe_ pue BupTpesy ut squeaq 
Itdng 03 sasuodsay rayoRay, Jo squnog Aduenbeayq mey 


9T 9TqPL 


1 


Lexicon Definition of Selected 


feacher Responses 


[INSTRUCTING: Teacher activities connected with her traditional jobs of 
instructing and supervising the everyday business of the 
classroom - "gave a lesson," directed, organized, "called 


- answered a question. 


on pupil, 
DISCIPLINING: Punishment imposed on child for his behavior, e.g. sent to 
principal's office or told to sit in corner or to stay 


after school. 


Teacher gives some specific instructional assistance to an 
individual st-ident. 


[GNORLNG: Teacher seemingly aware but not respending to behavior or 
performance of pupil. 


Teacher does not comment on or give feedback to a pupil 

response, as in a questivn and answer session; instead, she 

‘alls on another pupil or moves on to another part of the 
Can occur when pupil's response is correct or in- 


NEGATIVE 
FEEDBACK: negative verbal reinforcement in response to academic 
ehavioral performance. e.g., "wrong," "no." 


response to pupil performance or behavior. No distinc- 
tion made between whether teacher aware of this performance 
or behavior or not (unless is clearly a situation of 
IGNORING). 


POSITIVE 
FEEDBACK: Ise of mild positive verbal reinforcement in response to 
ic or behavioral performance. e.g., "right," "O.K.," 
Al . wu " Ai 
rine, correct. 
Teacher commends or tangibly rewards a student's activities 
or products. 


Teacher responds to pupil's behavior or answer to a previ- 
ous question by herself asking a question. 


RECOGNIZING: Teacher's neutral nonevaluative response to an academic 
. . . ' s " 
performance or a nonacademic behavior. e.g., "notices", 

“acknowledges”. 


REDIRECTING . A verbal or non-verbal action by the teacher to redirect a 
pupil's behavior. Done without apparent anger. 


Copyright (c) 1971, 1976 by N. M. Lambert 


87 


60 


in a previous section, the target pupils were identified from the 
classroom rosters as being representative by sex, race, and achievement 
level. We reviewed the observation records for all observation days to 
determine if any factors operated which would limit the opportunity to 
observe all target pupils equally. Careful examination of this potential 
source of bias in the records revealed that the target population was 
consistently observed in all classrooms and that there were no selective 
factors operating which would invalidate the observational data as 

being representative of classroom characteristics. 

Following an evaluation of the representativeness of target pupils, 
the next step in data reduction was to tackle the problem of differing 
frequencies of observations among classrooms resulting from variability 
in the number of observations (1, 2 or 4). First, we examined obser- 
vation rates for different observers as a source of variability. As 
these were relatively uniform across observers, differences in 
frequencies of observation could then be attributed primarily to the 
"observability" of the activities of the classroom. This conclusion 
was supported consistently by informal observer reports. For example, 
in some structured classrooms the level of pupil activity was very low 
in comparison to a relatively unstructured classroom where pupils take 
responsibility for selecting their own learning activity. In the former 
case the instructional context in the classroom rarely changed. Conse- 
quently, the observer could make only continuous observations of "pupil 
reading silently in his reading book", or "pupil doing multiplication 
problems in his workbook". In the latter case the observer would make 
many observations since the context for the pupil might change five 


times during the mathematics instruction as the teacher introduced the 


88 


mathematics lesson, the pupil completed an assignment, the pupil 

went he demonstration table and worked on other tasks, and the pupil 
then returned to his desk to begin an independent free time assignment, 
after which the teacher brought the class back to attention and they 
prepared to go out to lunch. 

Since we wished to obtain measures which would describe the class- 
rooms in our sample fairly, a method of treating the raw observation 
frequencies had to be found which would equalize them for differential 
observation rates due to variability in the assigned number of observa- 


tions in the classrooms and/or to differences in the extent of classroom 


structure. Our solution was to prorate the total frequency of each 


observation variable with respect to the total number of observations 
recorded overall (across all days of observation) for each teacher, 

after first separating the total record into subunits associated with 
reading and mathematics. Thus, in actual fact, the prorating factor was 
the total number of observations during either reading or pathematics 
since all observation variables were accumulated separately for these 
activities. These prorated frequency measures provided us with classroom 
variables which, we believe, can be considered independert, both of 
number of days of observations and of the possibly confounding classroom 
effects detailed above. 

The reader should be apprised that the types of observation records 
obtained in the APPLE Observation System and processed by the APPLE 
computer programs provide a very rich source of information about pupils 
and teachers. The investigator has a wide variety of ways in which to 
look at the observational data. * Our decision to elect these methods of 


data reduction was based on the objective of defining aspects of pupil 


89 


and teacher behavior to serve as classroom performance measures and then 


of analyzing the predictive validity of each of them. 


Reduction of Time Allocation Variables to Reflect Time Allocation by Classroom 


The basic data for calculation of time allocation measures were 
taken from the Observer Summary Report which required the observer to 
record for each pupil a maximum of the three most frequent types of 
reading contexts (r,, rj, rz) and the three most frequent types of 
mathematics contexts (mj), M45 m3) in which the pupil had been observed 
during the specified observation period. Also reported for each pupil 
were the following: 

A Total number of minutes in each of three contexts for 
each pupil 
Percent of total time devoted to each context for each 


pupil, e.g. 


Total number of minutes in each context during which 
pupil was engaged in productive, student-like behavior 
Percent of time in each context during which pupil was 


engaged in productive, student-like behavior, e.g. 


For two types of variables, the number of minutes and the percent of 


total observed time, scores for each teacher were obtained by averaging 


gC 


63 


ross observation days and across pupils in order to obtain two summary 

issroom measures ne reporting actual number of minutes (see Tables 
26 and 32. pp. 8&3 and 90, for examples) and the other reporting the 
averaged proportion of the total time in the three contexts (see Tables 
28 and 34, pp. 85 and 92, for examples). Averaging across observation 
days and across pupils was also done for the two additional variables, 
the number of productive minutes in each context and the proportion of 
al productive time in contexts. This produced two more summary 
ssroom measures, the average number of minutes or productive time 


(see Tables 27 and 33, pp. 84 and 91, for examples) and the average 
proportion of time which was productive in each context (see Tables 29 
and 35, pp. 86 and 93, for examples). 
In the review of the time allocation data, it became apparent 
that percent of time and percent of productive time measures would 
only a partial picture of the total classroom instructional en- 
ironment If the amount of time the target pupil spent in each of his 
three primary coatexts was not equivalent, or if all target pupils 
were assigned to the same contexts and spent different amounts of time 
in each, then it was felt that an additional method for computing the 
time allocation measures was needed. These supplementary measures pro- 
ided another way to look at classroom productivity. In explaining these 
isures, let us first illustrate the case when the number of minutes in 
ntexts is similar across pupils. Take the case of three target pupils 


each of whom spent approximately 10 minutes in Independent-Group contexts, 


but who manifested productiv. student-like behavior to differing degrees: 


Total Time Total Productive Percent Productive 
in Context Minutes Minutes 


10 minutes O minutes 0% 
10 minutes 10 minutes 


10 minutes 5 minutes 50% 


Average Pupil 
Percent Productive 
= 50% 


Total Total Gross Gross Percent 
Gross 30 minutes Productive Time Productive 
Time = 15 minutes = 50% 


The average percent of productive time would be: 0% + 100% + 50% = 50% 
3 


The total time (gross number of minutes) in the Independent-Group 


context for the three target pupils was 30 minutes, the gross number 


of minutes of productive time was 15 minutes, and the percent of gross 


15 minutes 


productive time was: 30 Minutes = 507% 


In another case the time spent in the Independent-Group context 
varied among the target pupils. For example, consider the following case: 


Total Time Total Productive Percent Productive 
in Context Minutes Minutes 


5 minutes 5 minutes 100% 
15 minutes 5 minutes ; 33% 


25 minutes 5 minutes 20% 


Average Pupil 
Percent Productive 
= 51% 
Total Gross Gross Percent 


45 minutes Productive Time Productive 
= 15 minutes = 33% 


When the percent of productive time was averaged across the three pupils, 


the average productive time for the classroom was 51%, almost the same 


92 


65 


the first classroom. In the first example 
which was productive (number of productive 
ninutes for all pupils divided by the total number of pupil minutes in 
the context) was also 50% -- the same value as we found when we averaged 
percent of productive time for the three pupils. In the second example 
percent of gross time which was productive was only 33% while the 
average value across pupils was 51%. 
shows another way in which average percent 


ind percent productive gross time can vary: 


Total Time Total Productive Percent Productive 
in Context _ Minutes Minutes 


5 minutes 1 minutes 20% 
15 minutes 5 minutes 33% 


minutes 25 minutes 100% 


Average Pupil 
Percent Productive 
= 51% 
Total Gross Gross Percent 
Productive Time Productive 
= 31 minutes = 69% 
iis third example, the gross percent productive time was greater 
than the average productive time across the target pupils (51%). 
examples that when pupils are more productive in 


onger duration, the gross percent productive time 


ater than the average percent of productive pupil 


value most fairly measures the classroom 
instructional impact will require further evaluation. However, for 


of data presentation, two additional types of 


66 


and percent of gross productive time in context (the total number of 


minutes the target pupils were judged to be productive divided by the 


total number of minutes across all target pupils in that context.) 


(See Tables 30 and 31, pp. 87 and 88, for examples.) 


At the conclusion of the data reduction phase we had the following 


data for each teacher available for analysis: 


1) Prorated incidences of the major observational categories 


Pupil events 
Instructional contexts 


Teacher 
Teacher 


activities 
responses 


Time allocation measures for instructional contexts 


a) 
b) 
c) 
d) 
e) 
f) 


Average 
Average 
Average 
Average 
Average 
Average 


number of minutes in each context 

proportion of total minutes in each context 

number of productive minutes in each context 
proportion productive minutes in each context 
proportion gross number of minutes in each context 
proportion gross productive minutes in each context 


Results 


The primary function of the analysis of the APPLE observational 
data for the Beginning Teacher Evaluation Study was to provide testable 
hypotheses about the classroom performances of teachers that are related 
to pupil growth in the academic areas of reading and mathematics. In 
order to reflect the interests of the Commission, we have systematically 
organized and analyzed the information to focus on teaching performances. 
Each teacher's pupils were treated as a group. Although individual 


teachers were the unit of analysis, the subset of students who had been 


selected to be observed represented a comprehensive range of pupil 


attributes. They were a representative "cross-section" of pupils in 
BTES classrooms. 

In this section of the report, we will describe the major findings 
from the APPLE observational phase. These findings will include, by 
grade level, summary statistics which include descriptions of the average 
prorated frequencies of observation variables for reading and mathematics, 
as well as summary statistics for the time allocation in instructional 
context variables. (For a detailed report of these descriptive statis- 
tics compiled for BTES classrooms stratified by Socioeconomic Status and 
Geographic Location of School see Appendix B.) Also presented in this 
section are predictive validity studies of each of the APPLE variables 
using end of year achievement and attitude scores as the criteria, 
controlling for Fall test performance. Finally, we will present tables 
of crosstabulations and describe some of the relationships among teacher 
activities, teacher responses, teacher classroom organizational strate- 


gies, and pupil academic and attitudinal changes by comparing the classrooms 


68 


where the pup/l growth was greatest to those classrooms where the least 
growth was produced. 

The findings to be reported below, with the exception of the 
crosstabulation tables, consist of statistics associated with each of 
the fifty incidence variables and sixty time allocation variables 
analyzed individually. When the APPLE variables are subsequently 
analyzed along with the other measures collected during the BTES 
study, it is expected that they will be subjected either to empirical 
data reduction or to rational combinatorial procedures. Such data 
reduction seems mandatory if the total number of variables is not to 
exceed the number of classrooms, the unit of analysis for the studies 
to be reported in Volume I. In an attempt to provide a framework 
within which such data reduction might proceed, we have conducted 
factor analyses within each of the major observational categories. 
Because of the technical nature of this material, the results of 
these analyses, by grade level and instructional area, are given in 
Appendix C. Also reported in Appendix C are validity studies of the 
relationship between factor scores derived from the analyses and the 
end of the year achievement and attitude outcomes, controlling for 
fall test scores, 

Having thus chosen to analyze the APPLE data as individual 
variables rather than as grouped variables, we were faced with a " 
large array of outcomes to be described. Confronted with this task, 
we have elected, in the following discussions of results, to comment 
on only those relationships which seemed to us especially noteworthy 
on either theoretical or practical grounds. The careful reader may 


note that some variables starred as significant may not be mentioned 


69 


in the verbal description of the results. This is not an oversight 
but merely reflects our judgment about which findings were most 
worthy of elaborated discussion. 

Some readers also may be concerned to find small variations in 
the numbers of teachers included for the different analyses to be 
reported below. Although ninety-five teachers were originally scheduled 
for observation, one teacher subsequently couldn't participate because 
of injuries received in an automobile accident. Accordingly, the 
incidence data reported in Tables 18 through 25 was based on N=94. 
Likewise, the tables of descriptive statistics for instructional 
context time allocation variables show N's which are different from 
the incidence variables and differ also between reading and mathe- 
matics. The loss of data for these analyses (N=90 for reading time 
allocation variables’ and N=84 for mathematics time allocation vari- 
ables) is a consequence of two observer's’ initial confusion about 
the nature of the recording task for the "Observer Summary Report". 
Although APPLE project staff were in routine contact with observers, 
inevitable delays in receipt of completed observation materials made 
it impossible to rectify the misunderstanding until several days 
observations had been completed. Consequently, the total N available 
for analysis was reduced as indicated. 


Grade Level Contrasts for Observations in Reading and Mathematics Instruction 


Our first set of descriptive information summarizes the mean, median 
and standird deviation for each of the observation variables -- pupil 
events, instructional contexts, teacher activities and teacher responses. 
In nearly all cases the values for means and medians indicate that the 


distributions of classroom observations were not normal but were posi- 


97 


Table 18 


Average Prorated Incidence of Events Observed 
During Reading in BTES Classrooms 


_ Grade 2 N= 41 _ Grade 5 Ne 53 
Events Median S.D. Median S.D. 


Academic Performance 78 -61 ‘ . 83 2.50 8, 
Attentiveness fz <ao . 12 4.08 7. 
Direction Following 29 25 . oad 43 4. 
Engagement . 36 . 38 : 98 24.05 4 
Participation 2,48 .70 . 01 -10 5 
Volunteering - 66 93 i . 86 .28 2 


Work Habits -41 83 P 94 28 
Conduct a 24 ‘ . 38 one 
Inattention —ee 54 ‘ .03 ‘ae 
Talking Pe . 30 : 10 .78 
Conduct -90 Be S| ‘ 20 -43 
Engagement | 43 ; . 36 18 


Inattention -63 -48 ‘ . 38 -50 
Work Habits .18 ae ‘ 56 .70 
Oral Reading .05 .05 -10, 94 . 30 
Phonic Skill a . 26 ‘ 94 ~29 
Reading Comprehension -41 a : 23 sok 


71 


Table 19 


Average Prorated Incidence of Events Observed 
During Mathematics in BTES Classrooms 


_ Grade 2 We 41 .., Sate > Be 53 

Events X Median S.D. xX Median S.D. 

+ Academic Performance 74 ske ee Pes 10 93 
+ Attentiveness 5.70 3.65 7.16 6.41 3.08 8.00 
+ Direction Following 2.45 ee 4.66 1.68 sae 3.02 
+ Engagement 11.96 10.00 11.31 19.25 16.70 14.30 
+ Participation 2.36 ean 6.07 eT 14 2.20 
+ Volunteering Zsi . 80 3.16 31 2.29 
+ Work Habits te 7.05 8.37 5.79 4.38 5.61 
- Conduct 1.19 .21 yy os 1.30 ee ey 2.43 
- Inattention 4.30 2.60 Pe 5.60 &.53 eS 
- Talking 3.01 1.45 4.81 4.06 5.85 6.28 
0 Conduct 1.61 me | Rise 1.58 .28 2.54 
0 Engagement 1.60 .29 3.25 1.16 .16 2.63 
0 Inattention 1.63 23 3.99 Zicae 34 4.92 
0 Work Habits 3<i3 i.208 4.13 5.05 3.30 6.85 
+ Number Concepts 13.41 10.15 12.47 9.67 8.18 8.85 
- Number Concepts 3.75 2.28 5.44 2.06 ae 9.34 
O Number Concepts 2.85 1.65 5.97 kel? 34 2.54 


99 


tively skewed; that is, there was a piling up of frequencies at the 
lower end of the distribution. We believe that these distributions 
represent the actual distributions of the variables under the conditions 
of observation and that they are not artifacts of the procedure. 


Comparisons of average prorated incidence of pupil events by grade 


level and instructional area. The average prorated incidences of pupil 


events observed in reading and mathematics instruction at the second 

and fifth grade levels are presented on Tables 18 and 19. It appears 
that pupil behavior at these grade levels in both reading and mathematics 
is very similar. There is more observable evidence of reading and mathe- 
matics skills in second than in fifth grade as evidenced by the higher 
rates of "+ Oral Reading" and "+ Number Concepts", as well as greater 
frequency of observations of "Phonic Skills", "Reading Comprehension", 
and neutral or negative evidence of number concept skills. "Plus (+) 
Engagement", the lexicon term which is assigned to pupil events of 
involvement with a lesson on which the pupil is working independently of 
the teacher, is more frequently observed in mathematics than in reading 
at both second and fifth grade levels. Negative pupil behaviors such as 
"— Conduct", "- Inattention", and "- Talking" are observed with similar 


frequency in both subject matter areas. 


Comparisons of average prorated incidences of instructional contexts 


by grade level and instructional area. Reference to Tables 20 and 21 


illustrates the great differences in the way instruction is organized 
for reading and mathematics at second and fifth grade levels. The 
context in which the teacher is teaching the whole class simultaneously 


is most frequent in the second grade for mathematics instruction, while 


"Independent-Class" (pupils working independently on the same assign- 


73 


Table 20 


Average Prorated Incidence of Contexts Observed 
During Reading in BTES Classrooms 


_ Grade 2 N= 41 _ Grade 5 N= 53 
Contexts X Median S.D. X Median S.D. 
Adult-Group 7.46 ate 13.97 Li22 .10 4.39 
Independent Class 7.28 soe sduds 19.49 8.80 25.66 
Independent Group 28.87 28.00 17.44 ga.a7 be 21.38 
Independent Individual 5.08 19 12.87 3.05 16 9.63 
Teacher Class 8.66 1.60 35.38 12.19 3.93 18.23 
Teacher Group 32.54 33.68 18.86 24.63 22.08 22.02 


Table 21 


Average Prorated Incidence of Contexts Observed 
During Mathematics in BTES Classrooms 


nip Grade 2 N= 4l ee Grade 5 N= 53 
Contexts Median S.D. Median S.D. 


Adult Group . Pe ) | 12.18 . “ae 4.57 
Independent Class ‘ 1.48 19.97 ‘ 16.50 30.37 
Independent Group ‘ 21.20 20.00 ‘ 15.85 24.81 
Independent Individual ° sae 33500 . .07 4.23 
Teacher Class ; 21.43 31.61 ‘ 8.28 25.85 
Teacher Group . sao 21.26 . 1.08 19.68 


75 


ment) is most freqjent for fifth grade mathematics. Teachers tend to 
rely more on whole class instruction and identical assignments for all 
pupils in mathematics than in reading. Some idea of the extent of 
individualized instruction can be inferred from the incidence of the 
"Independent-Individual" context. It was one of the least frequently 
observed classroom contexts at either grade level. There are a greater 
number of observations of this context in grade two than grade five and 
more in reading than in mathematics. 

Except for the "Independent-Individual" context we can conclude 
that fifth graders are expected to spend more of their classroom time 
working independently of the teacher (in groups and as a whole class) in 
both reading and mathematics. Although it is relatively infrequent at 
either grade level, group instruction by an adult other than the teacher 
is more frequently observed in second grade classrooms in both reading 
and mathematics instruction. ''Teacher-Group" instruction in reading is 
more common at second than fifth grade, but this context is equally 
frequent at both levels for mathematics instruction. 


Comparisons of average prorated incidences of teacher activities 


by grade level and instructional areas. Tables 22 and 23 show central 


tendencies in teacher activities. Teachers at fifth grade are at their 
desk more often than are second grade teachers. There is a greater 
incidence of "Working With" at second grade, an activity reflecting 
instructional work with groups, individual pupi’s, or the entire class. 
Teachers are at the board more frequently in mathematics and more fre- 
quently in second grade. Teachers circulate and check pupil work 274 
are observed helping pupils more frequently in mathematics than in 


reading at both grade levels. 


Table 22 


Average Prorated Incidence of Teacher Activities 
Observed During Reading in BTES Classrooms 


_ Grade 2 Ne 4] _ Grade 5 Ne53 
Activities Median S.D. Median S. 


Academic Organizing ‘ 1.90 96 ‘ .18 
Answering ; 04 . 84 ‘ saa 
Asking ‘. 4.35 47 . ae 
At Desk P .07 .68 . .20 
At Board ‘ .07 59 ; 07 


Checking ‘ 14 . 86 ° 05 
Circulating ‘ 14 .20 ‘ 29 
Discussion : me ate e - 26 
Explaining ‘ -1l .08 24 -10 
Helping ? .19 . 88 


Instruction Giving ‘ 93 .60 
Listening ‘ “a3 54 
Question & Answer ‘a esa Pe a 
Supervising , -10 . 66 
Working With 50.90 96 


77 


Table 23 


Average Prorated Incidence of Teacher Activities Otcerved 


During Mathematies in BTES Classrooms 


_ Grade 2 Ne 4) _ Grade 5 N= 53 
Activities X Median S.D. X Median S.D. 
Academic Organizing @s02 31 Pe Ds 1.65 .50 2.86 
Answering 1.41 .08 6.10 2.83 .09 8.60 
Asking 5.39 1.00 8.07 4.12 sar 6.72 
At Desk 45 rp | y ae | 5.93 van 14.59 
At Board 4.86 49 9.78 1.62 16 3.10 
Checking 6.69 1.41 11.45 6.98 2.06 11.89 
Circulating 12.28 1.48 23.03 5.33 2.00 12.30 
Discussion 2.40 16 13.68 afk 18 1.98 . 
Explaining 2.10 e329 4.53 4.54 54 11.02 
Helping 5.13 oa 9.68 i Gee 10.80 
Instruction Giving 2.93 95 4.40 Pe 54 8.17 
Listening -16 03 Pye «h5 07 v7 
Question & Answer E.Sl ay ¥ re tf 1.68 17 5.05 
Supervising 2.69 39 pe 2.52 -10 7.58 
Working With y 5 BY 22.88 25.56 22.79 17.78 rs | 


105 


Comparisons of average prorated incidences of teacher responses 


by grade level and instructional areas. The quality of teacher responses 


to pupil events is very similar across both grade and instructional 
areas (Tables 24 and 25). About two-thirds of the time there is no 
teacher response to an observed pupil event. ''Positive Feedback" and 
"Praise" are least observed in fifth grade mathematics, but occur with 
similar frequency for readinz and mathematics instruction in second 
grade and for reading instruction at fifth grade. "Negative Feedback" 
and "Disciplining" are relatively rare. These finaings, along with the 


tt 


relatively infrequent observations of "= Conduct" pupil events, lead to . 
the inference that in organized instructional periods, conduct problems 


and disciplinary action by the teacher are not common. 


Grade Level Comparisons of Time Allocation in Instructional Contexts 


in Reading and Mathematics 


The types of time allocation data used to obtain measures of central 
tendency across all classrooms have been described previously. Briefly, 
they are: (1) the classroom average of the total number of minutes 
across target pupils for each of the three primary contexts reported for 
them; (2) the classroom average of the total number of minutes of produc- 
tive time for target pupils in each context; (3) the average percent of 
minutes in each context for the target pupils; (4) the average percent 
of productive time for the target pupils; (5) the percent of gross time 
in each context (total number of minutes for all target pupils in each 
context divided by gross time over all contexts); and (6) the percent of 
gross time target pupils were productive (gross productive time in 


context divided by gross time in all contexts). See the Procedures 


106 


79 


section (pp. 62-66) for a complete explanation of the calculation of the 
measures. \ 
When results are reported for two of these measures (the percent of 
productive time in context and the percent of gross productive time in 
context only those classrooms in which pupils worked in the context 
were included in the calculations. In this way, classrooms in wiuich a 
particular context was never observed would not be unfairly penalized by 
appearing to have no pr.ductive time in that context. Fo these two ‘ 
measures, we have indicated the actual number of classrooms in which 
pupils were observed in each context (see Tables 29 or 31, pp. 86 and 
pp. 88). In the remainder of the tables all of the classrooms at a 
particuler grade level were included in the computation of the means, va 
medians, and percent of time in contexts. 
In general, time allocation measures (in terms of both the rank 
order of the number of minutes in context and the percent of time pupils 
spent in each context) should be congruent with the data reporting - 
average prorated incidences of contexts associated with the pupil events. 
The time allocation data provide more precise measures of the ways in 
which the teachers organize their instruction, and the effectiveness and 
productivity of this instructional time for the target pupils. For \ 
example, we might expect that pupils would be less likely to be engaged 
in productive listening when the teacher was explaining something to the 
entire class anc the context was Teacher-Class. On the other hand, when 
teachers were instructing a group of pupils, and the context was Teacher- ) 
Group, the productive time might be greater because the teacher could 


more easily observ» the flagging attention of one of the group members 


and intervene appropriately. These time measures provide excellent 


107 


Table 24 


Average Prorated Incidence of Teacher Responses Observed 
During Reading in BTES Classrooms 


a Grade 2 Mes _ Grade 5 N53 
Responses Meaian_ S.D. Median S.D. 


Instructing 04 2.90 . 36 od 1.65 
Disciplining . 86 . 20 a ie . 83 .09 
Teacher Help eae 2.33 -07 .78 66 
Ignoring 04 so . 30 Pe | 18 
Moves On .26 24 14 97 .09 


Negative Feedback 47 .1C . 34 Me >. .93 
None she 63.78 > me Be . 38 
Positive Feedback .05 6.70 93 -O1 28 
Praise Pe 1.58 . 81 14 58 
Questioning - 46 1.73 Pe 04 okk 
Recognizing - 66 .83 .00 2.80 .65 
Redirecting 47 daee cae -08 28 


81 


Table 25 


Average Prorated Incidence of Teacher Responses Observed 
During Mathematics in BTES Classrooms 


_ Grade 2 N41 _ Grade 5 N#53 

Responses X Median S.D. X Median S.D. 
Instructing 3.86 2.09 4.85 3.26 2.08 3.95 
Disciplining 1.42 ——— 2.48 1.14 .18 ye 
Teacher Help 3. a4 2.38 3.70 2.54 .60 3.59 
Ignor2ng 2.42 ai 3.57 Z.19 1,33 4.17 
Moves On 34 .12 79 »45 .08 1.16 
Negative Feedback .28 .08 .85 .40 .08 1.03 
None 65.18 66.35 16.56 67.90: 73.45 23.46 
Positive Feedback 6.20 4.00 7.62 3.71 1.88 4.77 
Praise 2639 -48 3.83 Lsee 26 2.26 
Questioning 1.66 . 26 5.61 Pe ‘ne Liao 
Recognizing 2.41 me | 3.78 2.94 1.80 asa 
Redirecting 3.34 2.58 3.85 1.91 1.05 2.42 


109 


additional data from which to describe organizational factors in instruc- 
tion by curriculum area and grade level. 


Grade level comparisons for the six time allocation measures in 


reading. As Tables 26 and 27 indicate, more minutes are spent in small 


group instruction at second grade than at fifth. Teachers or other 
adults spend more time with individual pupils at second grade than at 
fifth and the younger children also spend more time on assignments on 
which they work independently of the teacher and of the rest of the 
class (I-Individual). On the average, second graders spend approxi- 
mately 72 percent (Table 28) of their reading time in some type of group 
instructional activity (T-Group, I-Group and A-Group). Fifth graders on 
the other hand are in group instruction during reading approximately 54 
percent of the time. While fifth graders were observed to be more 
productive on the average than second graders (Table 29) in general 
class instructional activities (T-Class and I-Class), fifth graders were 
as productive in the group instructional contexts as they were in instruc- 
tion with the entire class participating. The average percent across 
pupils for productive time in the T-Class and I-Class contexts varied 
from 45% (I-Class for second grade) to 63% (T-Class for fifth grade). 
The average percent of productive time in group contexts varied from 532% 
(I-Group at second grade) to 63% (I-Group at fifth grade). A most 
surprising finding was that the proportion of productive time in the 
individual contexts in reading was relatively small. Since a small 
amount of pupil time is spent in these contexts, as the tables reporting 
number of minutes illustrate, we conclude that few pupils have the 
benefit of one-to-one interaction with the teacher (Teacher-Individual) 


or individualized instruction (Independent-Individual). On the other 


1.6 


Table 26 


Mean Number of Minutes Per Student Per 
Day Spent in Contexts During Reading 


Grade 2 } Grade 5 N=50 


Median X Median Range 


T-Class ; .27 . ‘ 1.09 80.00 
I-Class ‘ .17 ‘ ‘ 6.50 .00 
T-Group : .00 F ‘ 9.50 .00 
I-Group . .00 ° ° . 00 -00 
T-Individual ‘ .07 ‘ ° 02 .00 
I-Inuividual ‘ 54 ° ‘ «23 .00 
A-Class , .00 . .00 

A-Group ° Pe ‘ . 229 .00 
A-Individual ‘ re S| ‘ ‘ O01 .00 
Test . ap ‘ ‘ .18 .00 


Table 27 


Mean Number of Productive Minutes Per Student 
Per Day Spent in Contexts During Reading 


T-Class 
I-Class 
T-Group 
I-Group 
T-Individual 
I-Individual 
A-Class 
A-Group 
A-Individual 


Test 


Grade 2 


N=40 


Median 


Range 


Grade 5 N=50 


— 


X 


Median 


Range 


-24 
- 50 


0-64.00 
0-23.00 
0-30.00 
0-51.00 
O- 3.00 
0-74.00 


0-25.00 
0O- 2.00 
O- 6.00 


6.22 
8.30 
9.26 
14.60 
.04 
2.32 
.00 
98 
.02 
. 30 


1.00 
2.50 
7.,00 
11.25 
02 
-1l 
. 00 
19 
-O1 
«15 


0-76 


0-26. 
O- 1. 
G-15. 


,00 
0-53. 
0-40. 
0-48. 
O- 2, 
0-27. 


Table 28 


Mean Percent Total Minutes Per Student 
Per Day Spent in Contexts During Reading 


Grade 2 N=40 Grade 5 N=50 


Median Range X Median _ Range 


T-Class > -54 0-100.00 ° 1.81 O- 80.00 
I-Class ‘ -33 O=- 43.00 ° 10.00 0-100.00 
T-Group . .50 0-100.00 ; 18.00 67.00 
I-Group ‘ -50 74.00 , 35.00 .00 
T-Individual ‘ .09 7.00 ‘ .04 .00 
I-Individual , . 30 83.00 ‘ «73 .00 
A-Class , . 90 ; .00 

A-Group ° ohh 47. ‘ 693 .00 
A-Individual , e2k 7. ° .03 .00 
Test ° -04 5 , dk .00 


Table 29 


Mean Percent Productive Minutes Per Student 
Per Day Spent in Contexts During Reading 


Grade 2 N=40 Grade 5 N=50 
ies Actual oe Actual 
X Median __ Range N X Median Range N 


T-Class 48.25 8- 97.00 13 61.50 9-100.00 20 
I-Class : 38.00 1- 95.00 . 46.50 5-100.00 28 
T-Group : 58.50 4-100.00 ‘ 53.50 9-100.00 34 
I-Group 53. 57.75 2=- 89.00 ; 70.25 17- 96.00 34 
T-Individual ; 16:75. 8- 25.00 : 14.00 3- 25.00 
I-Individual ‘ 24.00 5- 77.00 ‘ 28.75 7- 82.00 
A-Class 
A-Group pe 3 ‘ .00 : 40.50 28- 50.00 
A-Individual ‘ ‘ .00 : 8.00 

Test . ; .00 : .00 


Table 30 


Mean Percent Gross Time Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Reading 


Grade 2 WN=40 Grade 5 N=50 


X Median Range Median 


T-Class ‘ oi 0-100.00 £47 
[-Class ° ; O- -00 ‘ 12.50 
i-Group ye iP ° - 00 , 20.00 
I-Group : ‘ . 00 : 36.50 
1-Individual ‘ ; .00 : 02 
I-Individual ‘ : .00 ‘ 63 
A-Class ‘ ; . -00 
A-Group é ‘ .00 ‘ -96 
A-Individual 3 : .00 ° 02 
Test : ‘ .00 45 


Table 31 


Mean Percent Gross Productive Time Per Student 
Per Day Spent in Context During Reading 


Grade 2 N=40 Grade 5 N=50 
re Actual os 
X Median _ Range N X Median 


T-Class -31 90.75 72-100.00 13 90.17 
I-Class -60 86.00 3-100.00 . 75.50 
T-Group -83 89.00 9-100.00 ‘ 90.17 
I-Group -06 76.25 12-100.00 76.50 
T-Individual -00 93.75 50-100.00 . 75.00 
I-Individual -67 80.00 50-100.00 , 87.00 
A-Class 
A-Group : 81. 41- 98.00 . 80.50 
A-Individual . 95. 55-100.00 . 71. 

Test ‘ 41. 12- 87.00 . 86.00 


hand we would expect that when time was allocated to individual or 
independent assignments, the time would be more productive since the 
pupils would be receiving either maximum attention from the teacher or 
using materials of special interest. The data on productive reading 
time in these contexts does not support such assumptions when productive 
time is averaged across pupils. When the gross percent of productive 
time is computed (Table 31), the values vary from 78% to 83% productive 
in the Independent-Individual contexts. We suspect that the range of 
percents of productivity reflect the fact that the Independent-Indivi- 
dual assignments may be a type of classroom management some teachers use 
with pupils who cannot otherwise work in a group or on a common class- 
room assignment. Those classrooms where the proportion of productive 
time in this context was high were presumably those where individually- 
planned, individualized instruction was provided to pupils who 

could suscain their attention to the task for long periods of time 
without frequent supervision from their teacher. 


Grade level comparisons for the six time allocation variables in 


mathematics. Teacher instruction of the entire class is the context in 


which most time was spent in second grade mathematics (Table 32). In 
fifth grade, equal amounts of time were allotted to contexts in which 
the teacher was directing the work of the entire class or in which 
pupils were working independently on a common assignment. The amount of 
time spent in Teacher-Group contexts was similar at both grade levels, 
so that the primary difference in time allocation in mathematics between 
grades is in the relatively greater emphasis on the Teacher-Class con- 


texts at second grade (Tables 34 and 36). The average proportion of 


pupil productive time in context (Table 35) is higher in Teacher-Class 


instruction than in any of the other contexts. However, when productive 


117 


Table 32 


Mean Number of Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Mathematics 


Grade 2 N=38 Grade 5 N=46 


X Median Range K Median Range 


[-Class , 12.00 0-50.00 13.49 10.C6 0-50.00 
I-Cliss . -41 0-28.00 14.60 13.25 0U-58.00 
[-Group ‘ .83 0-33.00 5.86 -44 0-27.00 
[-Group . -50 0-34.00 11.1i 6.50 0-52.00 
i-individual ‘ .00 02 -Ol1 O 1.00 
I-Individual ; -11 0-30.00 .69 0-17.00 
A-Class 4 .00 1. 36 , 0-40.00 
A-Group ‘ -27 0-10.00 .04 O- 1.00 
A- Individual ‘ -06 O- 3.00 04 O- 1.00 
Test ‘ i? O- 9.00 78 ; 0- 8.00 


Table 33 


Mean Number of Productive Minutes Per Student 
Per Day Spent in Contexts During Mathematics 


T-Class 
I-Class 
T-Group 
I-Group 
T-Individual 
I-Individual 
A-Class 
A-Group 
A-Individual 


Test 


Grade 2 N=38 


x 


Median 


Range 


Grade 5 N=46 


Median 


11.55 
-ll 
-82 
84 
.00 
233 
.00 
- 66 
.08 
24 


10.00 
36 
. 83 
- 50 
.00 
-1l 
.00 
19 
04 
~12 


0-41. 
0-24, 
0-29. 
0-27 


0-24 


0-10. 


O- 1 
O- 9 


00 
00 
00 


.00 


.00 


00 


.00 
.00 


7.67 
9.75 
-37 
. 63 
.00 
-07 
-33 
.02 
02 
.09 


Table 34 


Mean Percent Total Minutes Per Student Per Day 
Spent in Contexts During Mathematics 


Grade 2 N=38 Grade 5 N=46 


Xx Median Range X Median Range 


I-Class , 33.25 0-100.00 27.33 21.25 0-100.00 
I-Class 3 -81 O- 68.00 31.09 31.75 0-100.00 
[-Group 9. -75 0-100.00 11.98 -88 O- 59.00 
I-Group 21. . 50 74.00 22.13 14.75 O- 82.00 
{-Individual ° 03 10.00 02 -Ol O- 1.00 
I-Individual ‘ 34 .00 2.09 -20 O- 50.00 
A-Class ; . 00 2.49 -91 O- 73.00 
A-Group ae ‘a2 ‘ 07 702 O- 2.00 
A-Individual ‘ .08 ‘ -02 O- 4.00 
lest ° ~41 ‘ 2.16 -18 O- 40.00 


Table 35 


Mean Percert Productive Minutes Per Student 
Per Day Spent in Contexts During Mathematics 


Grade 2 Grade 5 
ie Actual as Actual 
X Median  _ Range N X Median Range N 


T-Class 93 66. 15-95.00 10 . 70.75 13 100,00 29 
I-Class -94 45. 6-95.00 16 ‘ .00 97.00 28 
T-Group 95 27. 3-88.00 19 ‘ -50 93.00 20 
I-Croup sue 83s 7-87.00 22 : .00 87.00 28 
T~ Individual OO iJ. P - 50 6.00 
I-Individual .86 18. .GO . - 50 39.00 
A-Class ‘ - 50 78.00 
A-Group -83 16. .00 ‘ .00 22.00 
A-Individual AD be 9. .00 ° .00 8.00 
Test .00 ° ‘ .00 50.00 


Table 36 


Mean Percent Gross Time Per Student Per Day 
Spent In Contexts During Mathematics 


Grade 2 N=38 Grade 5 N=46 
Xx Median Range K Median Range 


T-Class 30. 0-100.00 27.69 21.25 0-100.00 
I-Class 4 ; 0- 69.00 31.80 26.00 0-100.00 
[-Group .€ y 0-100.00 12.22 -88 O- 65.00 
[-Group ; 2 O- 74.00 2. 13.75 O- 74.00 
[-Individual ; ; . 00 , -02 O= 1.00 
I-Individual ; e- .00 . . 20 36.00 
A-Class ; ; 74 73.00 
A-Group 3. od. 33.00 : -02 2.00 
A-Individual ‘ ; .00 : 05 2.00 
Test ° : . 00 .18 26.00 


Table 37 


Mean Percent Gross Productive Time Per Student 
Per Day Spent in Contexts During Mathematics 


Grade 2 Grade 5 
Actual me Actual 
Median Range N X Median Range N 


T-Class 33 So~ 99. 27 80.17 52-100.00 29 
I-Class -50 33-100. 16 : 77.00 30-100.00 28 
T-Group . -75 36.100. 19 : 87.00 50-100.00 20 
I-Group . -50 30-100. 22 : 77.50 36-100.00 28 
T-Individual ; . 00 ‘ 60.00 20-100.00 
I-Individual ; -50 67-100. ‘ 42.00 14- 78.00 
A-Class : : 73.00 68- 78.00 
A-Group ‘ .0O0 75-100. ‘ 73.50 67- 80.00 
A-Individual ° .00 57-100. . 72.50 70- 75.00 
Test ° .00 : 93.63 76-100.00 


96 


time in contexts was computed using gross time (Table 37), the Teacher- 
Group mathematics contexts were more productive. Pupils were in Independ- 
ent-Individual contexts and contexts where an adult other than the 
teacher was in charge of instruction in only eleven second grade class- 
rooms. While the average productive pupil time in these contexts was 
lower than in other contexts, the percent of productive gross time was 
high. If the observer judgments of productivity are accurate, time 

spent in Independent-Individual, Teacher-Individual, Adult-Individual 

and Adult-Group contexts on the average is not generally productive time 
in mathematics. However, when gross time is considered, the productivity 
rate for the classroom overall is as high in the individual context as 


in other settings. Such a finding suggests that only the small number 


of pupils who can tolerate rather long periods of time working indepen- 


dently are the ones who are judged to be doing productive work. 


Partial Correlations of Observation Variables With Reading Achievement 


Outcomes 

Five outcome measures defined the criteria which were available to 
evaluate the validity of the APPLE observation variables. One of these 
measures was a nationally standardized achievement test, the California 
Achievement Test in Reading Comprehension. Three other measures of 
reading achievement were developed as part of the Phase II BTES Pupil 
Test Battery. They were tests in reading achievement, reading applica- 
tion, and decoding. The fifth measure was an overall score combining 
the score from the California Achievement Test and the three project 
developed measures. Additional information about these measures and 
their psychometric properties is presented in Volumes II and IV. 

We used a partial correlation of the observation variables with 
the end of year measure controlling for the fall test score, as the 


validity statistic. In common with most other observation systems 


~ 124 


97 


APPLE produces variables which are typically assymetrical and contain 


relatively few class intervals. In such situations the correlation 
coefficient is limited in the values it can assume. However, since 
no other analytical method seemed as suited to our needs, we hoped 

to insure that all potentially valid measures be included for further 
study by employing a less conservative probability level for ascer- 
taining statistical significance than is conventional. Accordingly, 
we accepted a probability level of .10 or less that the partial 
correlations differed significantly from zero. 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of pupil events with 


reading outcomes. Several pupil characteristics were significantly 


related to achievement outcomes (Table 38). The greater the frequency 
of talking out inappropriately in class ("- Talking") the poorer the 
average achievement of that class in four of the five achievement 
measures in grade two. At the second grade level, observations of pupil 
behavior which were neutral with respect to "Engagement" and "Conduct" 
were negatively correlated to many outcome measures. These results 
suggest an inverse relationship between the end-of-year achievement 
outcomes and the observed frequency of pupil behavior which was perhaps 
not consistent with teacher ideas of ideal behavior, but not necessarily 
serious enough to warrant teacher intervention. 

At second grade, more frequent evidence of positive achievement in 
phonics ("+ Phonic Skills") was positively correlated with reading 
achievement over two achievement tests, while the observation of achieve- 
ment in phonics was negatively correlated with outcomes at fifth grade. 
We can offer the tentative interpretation that the more pupils are 
observed to be working on phonics activities in second grade, the better 


the chances that their scores in reading application and decoding will 


125 


¥ 


0 *=- TO° Soar Oe £0° 9° = CO*- uoTsusyeidmog BuTpeay+ 

fg 80° co" ¥9E”)=—=s HTT" TE” te STTFAS IFUOUd+ 

90° ee ae on =. Ot" + il: ot ZuTpesy TP1O+ 

hs = 1? ee oe: 6e0°* ct - SIFqeH 410M O 

¥6Z7°- ¥ZS° ¥ 77° i o. 3 ee ~ oP ¥f 7° uofjueqjeuy OC 
T0° Be. ste = 6©@ 6e6Z = . 9" ét°- To°- quewe3e8uq oO 

St": eit '* oo” 2 sa * Ft". wee ¥fE°- qaonpuoy) 0 

3°. 2t¥ i Oe = 30 , So" eee ¥6Z °- 8uTATeL- 

cL: eS 7 SE 2 "= 2h" 70°- uot jus 3 34eUl- 

TO" 10°= oe ~*~ Bee 2 ee ¥SZ°> JONpuo)— 

OT* £0° £0° c= wit" By OT* 60° S3TQeH 410M+ 

¢0° 00° i ee SE (Oo =. 96" 90°- ut 199IUNTOA+ 

a" Cc. 5 ee ee. Br” 3 uot jedy op 3zeg+ 
WS: LO* ST": .#té" ST’ quowe3esuq+ 

oa Ce ek. oe eee "0°-  BU,MOTTOY UOT DaIT G+ 

wu = eg” tt Mie ) te SS9USATIUIIIV+ 


O2*= 86° wezt- 00° QIOUPUAOJAag DTWapeoy+ 


4 S ‘4 S 4 S 4 


SuTpeoy JuauaAaTYyoy TeIO], uot qReottddy uo} suayaadwoy 
oTwWapeoy SuTpeay But povseq BuT peay SuTpeey Lv) 
TeIO], 


$}Sa] Suypesy - sa10dg [ey AOJ Buf TToOaquoD sai0dg auo0sq3NO 
suyids yItM (Sjuaag TTdnq) SaTqetse, alddV SALA JO UoTIBTII1I109 Te Fated 


BE 9T9PL 


99 


improve significantly at the end of the year. However, observations of 
pupil activities in phonics at fifth grade suggest pupils who do not 
have word attack skills a’ > those who are experiencing reading diffi- 
culties. 

"Oral Reading", while a common occurrence at second grade, is not 
significantly related to end of year second grade achievement. In fifth 


grade, where oppcertunities for oral reading are not as common, the 


frequency of observed oral reading of the target pupils was significantly 


and positively related to reading achievement. 

Of some interest, because it violates conventional wisdom, is the 
finding that "+ Participation" was negatively related to application and 
decoding outcomes in second grade and decoding and total reading in 
fifth grade. In reading, "+ Participation’ was most commonly used to 
label those observations indicating that the pupil was joining in 
appropriately as a member of a teacher led reading group. It then 
appears that teacher led groups as < classroom organizational strategy 
may not be the most productive of pupil growth in the reading skills 
tested by the application and decoding tests. The results of the sub- 
sequent analyses address this issue more directly. 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of instructional contexts 


with reading outcomes. Several context variables (Table 39) were signi- 


ficantly related to reading achievement outcomes. However, only a brief 
description of the nature and direction of the relationships will be 
offered here. It is important to note that the use of these context 
variables in isolation of teacher or pupil behavior obscures the potential 
relationship between management and instructional skills of teachers and 
their impact on behavior and learning. Especially, as compared to 


the results for the context time allocation variables, the context 


127 


dno1i9—19y dee], 
SSPT)—-AsyoeVI 
TenpTATpuy] -iusepuedspuy 
dno1i9-juepuedapuy 

SSP [)-Juepusedspuy 


27°. 40°- dno 19-31 py 


S 4 c 4 S c S c 


But peasy quamMaAaT YOY TeIOL uot eot tddy uot suayeiduo7 
ITwWa peoy Sut pesy BuTposeq BuTpeay BuTpeey Lyd 
Te 30] 


S}Saj, BuTpeay - sa109g am0DqINDO [Tey AOJ BuTT{ToOIqUOD Sa10dg saMOD4INO But Ads 
YITM (83X9ZUOD [BUOCTIONAASU]L) SeTqetjAeA AlddV SALA JO SuOTIeTeAI0D TeTI1eg 


6t 9T9PL 


101 
incidence variables represent a much "grosser" cut of the available 
data. 
context measures and achievement will be reported later in this section, 
the results to be discussed here are abbreviated in comparison to those 
which wili follow. 

Thus, we found that "Teacher-Group" and "Independent-Individual" 


contexts correlate significantly with the California Achievement Test in 


rade two. "Independent-Group" and "Independent-Class" contexts are 
x 


positively correlated at a significant level with the decoding and 
reading achievement measures respectively in grade five. On the other 
hand, the frequency of the "Independent-Group" context at second grade 
is negatively related to the reading achievement measure. 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of teacher activities 


with reading outcomes. It is of considerable interest that teacher 


activities which involve verbal behavior in the organization and intro- 
duction of lessons are negatively correlated with achievement outcomes 
(Table 40). "Academic Organizing", "Asking'"’ questions, "Discussion", 
and "Instruction Giving" are all significantly and negatively correlated 
with the Reading Comprehension Test of the California Achievement Tests 
in second grade. "Academic Organizing" and "Instruction Giving" are 
inversely related to total reading achievement also at the second grade 
level. "Supervising" pupils, a type of non-interactive activity, is 
also negatively correlated at a significant level with three of the five 
achievement measures. The only teaching activity with uniformly posi- 
tive correlations with reading outcomes is "Checking". From these 
results we can offer the tentative hypothesis that the more the teacher 
is involved in organizing the class for instruction, and the less the 


teacher is involved in checking to see if pupils are understanding their 


129 


102 


work, the poorer the end of year reading. This hypothesis is an inter- 
esting one since it is the verbal behavior of teachers which is often 


the object of supervisors’ evaluation of classroom functioning. 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of teacher responses 


with reading outcomes. While the incidence of teacher "Instruction 


Giving" activities is negatively correlated with outcome (Table 40), the 
incidence of teachers' responses to pupil behavior by "Instructing" is 
positively correlated with second grade reading (Table 41). This inter- 
vention can be understood as a nonjudgmental response in which the 
teacher repeats the task or shows the pupil how to do something. While 
"Redirecting" a pupil whose behavior is perceived to be inappropriate is 
also a rather neutral teacher response, the greater the frequency of 
these responses the less likely the achievement will be as high in 
spring as would have been predicted by the fall scores. We infer that 
classrooms in which there is more need for teacher intervention of this 
type are those in which pupils are working less productively. Evidence 
of "Positive Feedback" and "Praise" to pupils is positively correlated 
with second grade reading performance. "Positive Feedback", on the 
other hand, was negatively correlated with the ETS reading achievement 
test at fifth grade. The response "Moves On", used when the teacher 
failed to acknowledge a pupil behavior, is negatively correlated with 
achievement at both grade levels. The "Moves On" response is one in 
which the teacher responds to pupil behavior by calling on another pupil 
or moving on to another part of the lesson. The more this occurs 

during reading lessons, the more likely it is that reading achievement 


at the end of the year will be lower than expected. 


oo. eC = ST e0Z*  ET°*+. S0"=) ST fa YITM 3UTyxI0M 
a0” = elE*+ 90" alt= ae ee ee oI°- SutstAszedng 
T= = Ho 2 SO°~ 9I° ‘e9Z°- . £O°- St” ZuyTiemsuy pue uot Send 
ee. FE "0° ¥0°= 80°= $0°  itii- 60° OT" SuyueIstT 
ST°- x9Z°- O° ST*- e6T°~ 10°= eZc°- iTt= 20° et BuTATD uot oNAAsuUT 
i ee I 10°~. St = 3°: AS GT*- 0z°- Sutdqon 
ct: fe > OS. a tt sl Ue ty TO* Sutute[dxg 
ie. te =e ot. 00°= 270° - 6°- t0°= sIt*- uo} SSNIST 
10°- 20°= “6Z7°- 02° 1‘ 2° 20.. ors i BE BZuteMo1TO 
66" wet". oe io. 2". Or 00° 027° 8ut 499 YD 
Ot*- vI°= To°= 80°- cO°-sIt* $0°-. 02°- zo*- T0°- paeog Vy 
we tt ae | we Te ee ee ¢0° LO0°- yseq IV 
its: 66°* 28° 60°-99Z7". OT. €0°- cI° -sft*- ZuTySy 
w= Si'= eft" < 6T'= 0" Of 00"=- {t= ¥9Z°- l0°- Suyiemsuy 
S0°- ¥9z°- 90°- 0°- 90° 9t*. L06°~ s¥*= coO° 9%*- ZutzTuesig ITuepeosy 


S c S 4 S 4 S 4 S v4 


Supt peey qUsWaAITY OV TeIqo] uot eoT Tddy uoTsusyeiduoy 
ITWepecdy But peasy 8uTpoossq SuTpesy But pesy LV) 
TeIOL 


S$jSaj], 8uTpeay - saz0o9g [Tey AOJ BuyTT[osquog sai0dg ewod3ng BuTads 
YIIM (S9TITATIOV Aayoea]) SAaTqeTIeA AlddV SALW JO SuUOTIeTIAIOD TePIAIP 


OY 9T9FL 


OT" 34. % 


9l°= ¥Z°- + It t= 0'- et°= 8I°- 90°- ¥SZ*- But IIe1Tpey 
00° OT’- ST°= 00°= #6T°= T0° zo°- $0°- 80°- €T'- Buy ZZUsOIey 
= a oo°~ 00°- tt. Ot 90°  10°= sIZ°- 9T°- But uot ysend 
zO°- $0° i. LO° *82° To°- s0°- ie. Ie" esteid 
L40°- 6T° *6T°- ¥£Z7° T°-*€Z° ZT’~ 08Z" oT". - aie" yoeqgpeey eATITSOg 
To oe tT Os. 2 '- il OT" 00° auON 
OT’= 90° ZT°- €0° 90° ST" 80°- €T’ ws. st yoeqpeey eAT IeseN 
9T°- YI°- ivT-< Co’: wOt** 20" ¥0Z7°- 70°- 40° #l€°- uQ seAaoy 
tio. le 60°- IT° €0°- 20°- "St" ¥6T° 80°- Buys ous] 
ot” sft ipn- It . 10° 1. Of ST°’- £€0°- djoH 1a see] 
oo 2 eee ee ar EP’ 60°= ‘ST°- 00° To" ButuTTdtos tq 
ZI°= ¥LZ° Ot*- (St’ 70° YI°- LO°- ¥8Z° Site gE" But JONAS UT 


S 4 S v4 S 4 S c ¢ 4 


BuTpeoy JueweAsTYyoy TeIOL uotjeottddy uoTsuesyeidumo) 
DITWapeody BuTpesy But podeq Sut pesy But pesy LV 
TeIOL 


S$4soa] BuTpeey - sa100g [Tey AOJ Buf {[{Torquog sa1z0dg swod3NO BuTads 
YITA (Sasuodsay AsyIPa]) SAeTqeTIeA AlddV SALA JO SuoTIeTeII0D TeTII1eg 


T? ®T9PL 


Again it should be noted that considering the relationship of 
teacher responses to pupil outcomes in isolation of their interaction 


with instructional contexts, teaching activities, and pupil behavior 


gives an incomplete picture of the "true’ nature of the relationships 


among the variables. Perhaps some of the reversals in direction of 
the relationships across grade level for certain responses (e.g. "Posi- 
tive Feedback") are a consequence of differing patterns of instructional 


contexts and teaching activities across grade levels. 


Partial Correlations of Observation Variables with Mathematics 


Achievement Outcomes 


Two nationally standardized mathematics achievements tests (the 
Math Concepts and Math Computation tests of the California Achievement 
Tests) and one newly developed one, the Machematics Applications Test, 
were the criteria for evaluating mathematics outcomes. In addition, a 
total score derived from the combination of measures for the three tests 
was computed. These tests are described in Volumes II and IV. 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of pupil events with 


mathematics outcomes. In second grade classrooms where there is a high 


frequency of inappropriate conduct, obvious inattention to the classroom 
work, and talking out of turn, there is more likelihood that the achieve- 
ment scores in mathematics will be less than predicted at the end of the 
year (Table 42). The frequency of observed pupil involvement with 
lessons implied by the "+ Engagement" events in second grade is signifi- 
cantly and positively related to second grade mathematics achievement on 
two measures. 

Observable behavior associated with number concepts was not related 


to achievement except in the case of " Number Concepts” in fifth grade 


Table 42 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Variable (Pupil Events) with 
Spring Outcome Scores Controlling for Fall Scores - 
Mathematics Tests 


Total 
CAT Math CAT Math Math Academic 
Concepts Computation Application Math 


2 2 2 5 2 5 


+Academic Performance . 08 .09 24% -10 -.08 .00 
+Attent iveness ‘ -.10 24% -04 é -14 
+Direction Following . .08 06 6 . aD | 
+Engagement .22 A393 .00 . wh? 
+Participation . ° 07 ‘ -.03 
+Volunteering . . -O1 .18 
+Work Habits ‘ ° ° *.13 
~Conduct ° ; . 06 
-Inattention ‘ ‘ ° ; ° -03 
-Talking 

0 Conduct 

O Engagement 

0 Inattention 

0 Work Habits 

+Number Concepts 


-Number Concepts 


O Number Concepts 


and "0 Number Concepts" in second grade. However, the pattern of the 
correlations having to do with "Number Concepts" were neither uniformly 
positive nor negative. A careful review of the test items and the 
characteristics of the classroom observation records might clarify these 
apparently contradictory findings. 

Evidence of inattention which is not disruptive of classroom work 
("0 Inattention") is negatively correlated at a sigrificant level with 
all of the fifth grade mathematics achievement measures. This finding 
can be interpreted to mean that when there is a great frequency of 
observations of possible inattention to the mathematics lessons at fifth 
grade, there is quite likely to be poorer end-of-year achievement in 
that classroom. 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of instructional 


contexts with mathematics outcomes. In general, the frequency of 


"Indepe1 ient-Group" and 'Independent-Class" contexts was negatively 
related to achievement outcomes. While a clearer picture of the quality 
of pupil behavior in these contexts in mathematics will be provided when 
we present the correlations of the time allocation data with achieve- 
ment, the results on Table 43 suggest that classrooms in which pupils 
are working independently of the teacher in mathematics rost of the time 
are those which are more likely to have poorer achievement outcomes. 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of teacher activities 


with mathematics outcomes. Several teaching activity variables are 


significantly correlated with the mathematics achievement measures 
(Table 44). However, only one of them, "Asking," has a significant 
relationship with more than one measure. Instructional activitiy in 
mathematics !s not very observable, except for demonstrations at the 


board. Pupils are working independently on workbook or textbook assign- 


135 


108 


Table 43 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Variables (Instructional Contexts) 
with Spring Outcome Scores Controlling for Fall Scores - 
Mathematics Tests 


~ 


Total 
Math Math Math Academic 
Concepts Computation Application Math 
2 5 2 5 2 5 2 5 
Adult - Group -.16 -.07 -.16 ohe -.31% .02 -.23% -05 
Independent - Class -.01 -00 -.04 -.18 -.08 -.23% 06 <-.21* 
Independent - Gron -.04 =~. 23% -.23% -O1 13 -.08 -.24% -.11 
Indeps- ’ent - 
Individual -04 -.02 21% .02 -.1l -.11 25% -.06 
Teacher ~ Class Ol 18 -04 .03 -04 .16 .07 - 20% 
Teacher - Group -.13 .06 -02 12 .04 24% -,10 .20* 


136 


109 


Table 44 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Variables (Teacher Activities) with 
Spring Outcome Scores Controlling for Fall Scores - Mathematics Tests 


total 


CAT Math CAT Math Math Academic 

Concepts Computation Application Math 

2 5 2 5 2 5 2 5 
Academic Organizing -.06 -O1 -.16 -O1 -.14 -.08 -. 30% .03 
Answer ing 02 05 . 08 -O5 -02 -.10 06 -.20 
Asking -.24% -07 O01 .07 -.30% =,13 -.04 ee 
At Desk -41*% -.00 -.12 -.00 -.18 .10 -.02 -.05 
At Board .28% -.07 .04 -.07 -.08 .02 .08 .08 
Checking -29% -.08 .05 -.08 .16 -.09 .10 -.08 
Circulating oe -16 -.08 .16 24% .16 me -16 
Discussion -02 -03 .04 03 -.07 14 .03 -.20% 
Explaining -.15 02 .03 02 -.07 02 -O1 o13 

Helping -.29% -.15 -.12 -.15 -.18 .02 -.09 -.05 

Instruction Giving he 09 14 09 01 -11 .10 .08 
Listening -.18 .05 -.02 .05 -.04 -.24% -.03 -.08 
Question and Answer .21% 04 -.20 -04 14 -.01 07 -16 
Superv ising -07 13 -06 sae -02 -.08 .13 -16 
Working With -.16 -.07 12 -.07 . 04 17 -.09 -07 


137 


110 


ments, and teachers circulate around the room checking work, helping 
those who need it, or remaining at their desks available to those class 
members who need assistance. (Refer to Table 14 for the raw frequencies 
of teacher activities.) The prorated frequency of the "Asking" teacher 
activity was negatively correlated with outcomes. Reference to the 
lexicon definition presented earlier (Table 15) generates the hypothesis 
that teachers who spend time asking questions of their second grade 
pupils are those whose lessons are not understood; possibly their assign- 
ments are at an inappropriate level of difficulty for the pupils. 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of teacher responses 


with mathematics outcomes. Even though teacher activities in mathen- 


atics do not provide a clear picture of teacher differences which are 
related to outcomes, an examination of the number of significant partial 
correlations of teacher responses with achievement does show some 
interesting findings (Table 45). Teachers who are observed to emp loy 
more management techniques at second grade, such as "Disciplining" and 
"Recognizing", are those whose pupils are more likely to have poorer 
achievement. An explanation of these findings might be that the dif- 
ficulty level or the interest level of the mathematics assignments is 
possibly not appropriate for some pupils and in those classes the teachers 
must intervene more often to keep the class in order. These may also be 
classrooms in which there are unrealistic expectations that pupils work 
by themselves and be attentive to the task. 

At the fifth grade level, "Teacher Help" to pupils and providing 
"Positive Feedback" and "Praise" are teacher response variables which 
are positively correlated with end of the year mathematics achievement. 


All but one of the teacher response variables have a significant rela- 


13% 


Table 45 


Partial Correlations of BTES APPLE Variables (Teacher Responses) with 
Spring Outcome Scores Controlling for Fail Scores - Mathematics Tests 


Total 
CAT Math CAT Math Math Academic 
Concepts Computation Application Math 
2 5 2 5 2 5 2 5 


Instructing se .07 ‘ 03 : -03 .02 
Disciplining ‘ .09 .06 ‘ .16 e ‘ 3 
Teacher Help ; vid .16 : .07 

Ignoring ; .10 .02 , .Uo 

Moves On ‘ .03 . 08 ‘ .05 

Negative Feedback ‘ .03 eke é 27% 

None ‘ ES . 08 ‘ 07 

Positive Feedback ; . 05 ‘ eke 

Praise ‘ , .04 : -05 

Questioning ° ° .08 

Recognizing , ‘ -O1 


Redirect ing . ‘ 05 


112 


tionship to one or more measures of mathematics achievement. These 
findings suggest that the more the teacher interacts with students about 


their mathematic lessons the better the learning outcomes. 


Partial Correlations of Observation Variables with Pupil Attitude Outcomes 


Four attitude measures were available from the fall and spring 
testing periods. These are described in other volumes of the BTES final 
report so we will comment only on the method used to obtain the outcome 
measures. Each second and fifth grade pupil took a reading and mathe- 
matics attitude test and a reading and mathematics survey. The attitude 
measure asked the pupil to indicate whether he had positive, neutral or 
negative feelings about reading and mathematics activities. The survey 
asked for a variety of information about self concept with respect to 
peers, school, and interests in different types of activities. Since 
the reading and mathematics sections of each pair of instruments corre- 
lated highly with one another, there was no reason to keep them separate 
as outcome measures. We decided, therefore, to use the total scores 
both from the reading and mathematics survey and from the reading and 
mathematics attitude measure as the two outcome measures in the vartial 


correlation studies of our observation data. 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of pupil events in reading 


and in mathematics with attitude outcomes. At second grade "+ Engagement" 


events in reading instruction correlate positively with the total attitude 
measures (Table 46). Evidence of anappropriate behavior in the classroom, 
as reflected in the average incidence of " Conduct" and " Talking" 

events in reading, correlate negatively with the total attitude measure. 
We could hypothesize, tentatively, that with respect to attitudes toward 


reading and mathematics, second grade reading lessons where target 


OT > € 


sjdseau0j z3equnN 
sqzdeou0y 1equnyn 
sqidasu0j requny 
uoTsusyerduoj ZutTpray 
STLFAS 2 FUCUd 


SuTpesy Tesz0 
SIFQPH 410M 
uot Us 4eUy 

queue se 3uyq 
JoOnpuoy 


SuTATeL 
uot Us 4eU] 
JOnpuoy 
SIFG@H YA0M 
BuTrseAUNTOA 


uot edpfoT4eg 
Juewesesuq 

BuTMOTTOJ wot Ie1TG 
SSaUusAT IUeIIy 
QoUePMIOJI9g DTwepedsy 


apeay apeiy ape1ry 


~A@AINS @pnitiiy A®AINS epnitiaiy 
TeIoL TeIoL TROL TeIOL 


SITJewWsIUIeW -— squeay [tdng suTpesy - squeaq Ttdng 


SQWOIINH |apnjzaTaIy -— SeI0XS [ [ey AOJ Buyp[[Osquog se1zo0dg swod{NO Butads 
YITM (SqUaAg Ttdng) SaTqeTzeA AlddV SALG JO SsuoTIeTerI0D Tepe, 


94 eTIUPL 


pupils are observed to be positively involved in the activities of the 
class, and where they are not misbehaving or talking inappropriately are 
those classrooms with the most positive changes in attitudes at the end 
of the year. Observations of " Conduct" events in fifth grade reading 
are also negatively correlated with the attitude outcome. Evidence of 
opportunities for "+ Oral Reading" are positively correlated at both 
grade levels. We could infer generally that at both second and fifth 
grade, classrooms in which there was positive evidence of involvement in 
the classroom reading activity and an absence of inappropriate behavior 
would be those classrooms where attitudes toward reading and mathematics 
would improve over the year. 

When we review pupil events in mathematics at the second grade 
level, it is of interest to note that incidence of "+ Academic 
Performance” and "+ Attentiveness" events are negatively related to the 
total attitude measure. A good hypothesis to test would be that events 
such as ''+ Attentiveness" occur in classrooms where the pupils are 
expected to be listening to the teacher explain a mathematics lesson -- 
for example, teachers might be asking questions of pupils to see if they 
know answers to problems. In these situations, it is possible that the 
greater the incidence of these patterns of activities, the less the 
opportunity for the pupil to explore and extend his mathematics skill at 
his own rate of learning. Consequently, attitudes toward reading and 


mathematics become less favorable. 


At fifth grade, evidence of "+ Participation" and "+ Volunteering" 


in mathematics lessons are positively correlated with the attitude 
measure, suggesting that attitudes improve in classes where pupils are 


actively involved in interaction with the mathematics lesson material. 


142 


115 


Evidence of some inappropriate, or marginally acceptable behaviors in 
fifth grade mathematics lessons is negatively correlated with attitude 
outcome. 

Since several of the pupil survey items ask questions about how a 
pupil judges his abilities with respect to those of his peers, it is not 
surprising that some of the correlations between pupil event variables 
evidencing appropriate pupil behavior in reading and mathematics and the 
survey measure are negative at fifth grade. A pupil might be observed 
to be productively participating in classroom activities, but might view 
his own performance as less adequate than that of some of his peers. In 
such instances, one would expect a negative relationship to the survey 
items. However, at second grade, "+ Academic Performance", "+ Attentive- 
ness", "+ Direction Following" and "+ Participation" during reading 
activities have a significant positive relationship to the survey measure. 
Since quite a different pattern emerged at fifth grade, this suggests 
an age difference in the implications of these types of observed 
positive pupil behavior on attitudes toward self worth. 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of instructional contexts 


in reading and in mathematics with attitude outcomes. Examination of 


the partial correlations between incidences of contexts with the 
attitude and survey measures is not by itself too productive of 
immediately testable hypotheses (Table 47). In all but one case, those 


contexts with significant relationships were those in which the teacher 


was in charge of instruction, either the "Teacher-Group" or "Teacher- 


Class" contexts. Grade level differences in the relationship also 
appear. "Teacher-Class" instruction in both reading and mathematics 


at the fifth grade level is positively correlated with the attitude 


LT° ¥9Z°- €0°- z0° eiz°- dnoig-1eyoee], 
= ¥8E° ¥Tf° So Si ¢o*= Wh ¥0Z° = SSBTD-19yIes] 
z0° 60°- €0° 60°- €0° st°= 60°- TT*-| TeNpyAtpul-—juepuedepuy 
z0° See z0°- 20°- 8T* T0*- Z0°- ES dnoipj-juspuedapuy -y 
oo" 00° [o"= ¥€Z° 70° 9T°- T° OT*- Sse [D-JuUepusdspuy <i 
cO*- 00°*- 00°*- 8T° 6T° oO '- 60° 5 Bin dnoi9-3TNpy ont 
S c c A S 4 ¢ 4 , 

oper oper epeiy epe1iy 

AGAINS epniti3yv A®AINS epPnztIIVv 
TeIOL TeIOL TeIOL TeIOL 
SITIeMeUIe_W - Ss zx9 QUOD Buy peey - syxequo;) 


SOWOIIND SPNIFIIV - S®IOXS [[e{ ACJ BuyT[ Toru) saiosvs auod3NnO BSutads 
YITH (SIX9IU0D) SETQETILA AlddV SALA JO suo; JeTeII0D TeTIIeBg 


Ly ®T9eL 


measure. At second grade, incidence of this context is positively 
correlated with the survey measure for mathematics and negatively 
correlated for reading lessons. The reverse is true of the relation- 
ship between incidence of the "Teacher-Group" context and the second 
grade survey measure. In this case, "Teacher-Group” instruction in 
reading is positively correlated with the classroom average survey 
score while the incidence of this context in mathematics is negatively 
related to scores on the survey. Since "Teacher-Group" instruction is 
more common in reading than in mathematics, it would be necessary to 
find out more about the kinds of teaching activities and teacher 
responses which take place in reading and mathematics groups in order 
to clarify these differing significant relationships. These are 
hypotheses which should be tested in future research. 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of teacher activities 


in reading and in mathematics with attitude outcomes. The analysis of 


the relationship of teacher activities in reading and mathematics to 
the attitude and survey measures also demonstrates the possibility of 
positive and negative correlations of some teacher activities depending 
on the type of instruction and the grade level (Table 48). Being "At 
Board" during second grade reading instruction is positively correlated 
with the attitude measures but negatively correlated when it occurs in 
fifth grade reading. The incidence of being "At Board" during second 


grade mathematics is negatively related to both the attitude and the 


survey measures. However, the frequency with which teachers are "At 


Board" in fifth grade mathematics is positively correlated with the 


attitude measure. 


OT’ > d x 


YIFM BUTAIOM 
Sutstaredns 

zemsuy pue uot IseNnd 
Suyuse.sty] 

SuTATH uoTtIonNaAsu] 


Sutdjtoyq 
Sututetdxg 
uoTssnostqg 

Sup IeTNIAT)D 
SutyxIey4) 


paeog 3V 

4seq IV 

SuTysy 

Suy2emsuy 
Sutzyuesig 2Twepeoy 


apeay 


apeiy 


eperay 


epe1iy 


Aeains 
TROL 


opnataqv 
TBI0] 


A8AINS 
TeIOL 


epniytaav 
TBI0] 


SIT eweyIeYW 


— SOFIFAFISY AeyoePa] 


i 


Supypeey - SeTIATATIy Aey eI] 


S9M0I3INO SpNzfIIy - Se102S [Tey ACJ BuT{TTo1qUoOD sveio0dss ewodyNO Butads 
YIFA (SIFIFAPTIOV AsYOVe]) SETQeTIeA AlddV SALA JO SUOTIeTeII09 TeyTI1eg 


87 eTIFL 


119 


Some teacher activities which are related to attitude are always 
positively correlated with attitude and survey outcomes whenever the 
correlations are significant. Some of these activities with sigi.‘ficant 
positive relationships are "Checking", "Listening" and "Supervising". 
The activities which always have a negative relationship to attitudes 
when significant are "Circulating" and "Instruction Giving". "Checking", 
"Listening" and "Supervising" imply positive or neutral interest of 
the teacher, while "Circulating" and "Instruction Giving” suggest 
movement around requirements of the lesson. Some of t se activities 
correlate positively with achievement because they are evidence of 
teacher's degree of involvement in the work of teaching. However, 
these same activities may relate negatively to attitude outcomes 
because such teacher responses cause children to feel less positively 
about their abilities to do the school work. 


Partial correlations of prorated incidences of teacher responses 


in reading and in mathematics with attitude outcomes. Teacher responses 


to pupil behavior have differing relationships to attitudes depending 
on whether the teacher behavior is observed in reading or in mathematics 
and whether the pupils are second or fifth graders. In reviewing 

Table 49, it is important to consider that pupil attitudes toward 
reading and mathematics, as well as their feelings of self worth, will 
be dependent not only on how the teacher responds to them, but also on 
how this response affects their self perception. For example, the 
incidence of "Disciplining" was negatively related to reading attitude 
when it occurred in second grade reading instruction, but positively 
associated with the survey measure when it was observed in second 


grade mathematics. One could explain this apparently disparate 


147 


Butea T psy 
Sutzp~usov.s4y 
BuTUoTIsendH 
estelig 

yoVeqpeey SATITSoOg 
SUON 

ywVqpeesy eat IeseN 


ug seaoq 
SutiouZy] 
djTeyH r9yoee] 
Sututtdtostq 
But3oOn1z4su] 


apery ape1y ape1y epeiy 


A®AINS apn 3ti33yV Aegains epnitiziIyv 
TeIoL TeIOL TeIOL TeIOL 


SITIeMseyuIeW - sSesuodsey Aey ee] Suyppeesy - sesuodsey izeyoeeay 


SEWOIINO SpNITIIy - Se102S [[By A0zJ Bux [orquog seizods ewodynog Buzads 
YITA (Sesuodsey AseyIeal) SeTQeTIeA AlddV SALA JO SUOTIBTeIIOD TeTII1eg 


67 eT9PL 


finding by hypothesizing that when teachers discipline pupils in 
reading, pupils are less likely to respond positively to items assessing 
the degree to which they enjoy reading activities. On the other hand, 
pupils of the same age may perceive the legitimate use of teacher 
discipline as an awareness of individual differences in their own 
behaviors, which in turn changes their self concept. At the least we 
would have to state that the incidence of disciplining in a classroom 
cannot always be judged as lowering the general attitude in the 
classroom. 

While one cannot infer from these data the the extent of the use 
of disciplining will be negatively related to the average classroom 
level of attitude and self concept, neither can one infer that the 
frequency of "Negative Feedback" is a predictor of decrease in atti- 
tude or self concept. While the number of pupil events which receive 
a teacher response of "Negative Feedback" is inversely correlated with 
the second grade pupil survey results for reading, instances of 
"Negative Feedback" in mathematics have positive correlations with the 


survey measure in second grade and the attitude measure in fifth 


grade, The extent of "Positive Feedback" is always positively related 


to attitudes when the partial correlations are significant. Neutral 
teacher management techniques and teacher responses such as "Moves On" 
and "Redirecting" are also mostly positive in relation to both attitude 
outcome measures. One gets the impression from the examination of the 
data and from the analysis of the relationship between teacher activi- 
ties and pupil attitudes, that teacher behavior which calls attention 
to children, and perhaps places them in an unfavorable comparison to 
their classmates, may affect attitude changes even thought these same 


teacher behaviors have a positive relationship to achievement outcomes. 


149 


Overview of the Relationship of Observation Variables to Achievement 


and Attitude Outcomes 


Even though we have prepared numerous tables t» present the 
findings from the APPLE observation phase of the BTES project, and 
another set of summery findings might seem unnecessary, we believed 
that tables which present an overview of the most promising observa- 
tion variables would be valuable. Accordingly we prepared Tailes 50, 
51, anc 52 to summarize the relationship of pupil events, teacher 
activities and teacher responses with the outcome measures. In these 
tables we have indicated, within achievement area and grade level, 
those variables which have a significant relationship to two or more 
outcome mevst s. This, of course, is an arbitrary criterion. 
However, in the absence of more detailed information on the psycho- 
metric properties of the achievement measures, we felt that it was a 
fair criterion to use. The direction of the relationships is indicated 
with the use of "+" and "-"" signs. In attempting to summarize the 
findings from the attitude measures (see Tables 52A, 52B, and 52C), 
we decided that a variable which was significantly correlated for 


both grade levels within each outcome measure would be included. In 


these summary tables we have not included the data reporting corre- 


lations with instructional context because a more detailed presenta- 
tion of the correlations between time allocation in context measures 
and outcome will follow. 

Forty-seven APPLE variables (excluding instructional context) 
were idenditified from the total set of observations on the basis of 


the frequency counts in the observation record. There were 20 pupil 


events, 15 teacher activities and 12 teacher responses. Of these, the 


150 


123 


great majority could be considered of potential value when variables 
were included which were significantly related to either reading or 
mathematics achievement at one grade level or which appeared to have 

a significant relationship to an attitude measure across both grade 
levels. There are enough differences in classroom instruction between 
grade levels and between reading and mathematics instruction that we 
hesitate to generalize across grades and instructional areas. Teacher 
performance data which can invariably be assumed valid for predicting 


pupil achievement or attitude outcomes may not exist. 


124 


Table 50 


Summary of Observational Variables with Significant Partial 
Correlations with Two or More Outcome Measures - Pupil Events 


Outcome Measures 
Reading Mathematics 
| 2 5 


Pupil Events 2 


+ Academic Performance (+-) 
+ Attentiveness (+++) 
+ Direction Following 
+ Engagement (++) 
+ Participation (oo) 
+ Volunteering (++) 
+ Work Habits 
- Conduct 

- Inattention (ao) 
- Talking (--.--) (mame) 
0 Conduct ) 
O Engagement (a=) (++) 
0 Inattention (++++) Cas) Camnw) 
0 Work Habits (--) 
+ Oral Reading (+++) 
+ Phonic Skills (++) (--) 
+ Reading Comprehension 
+ Number Concepts 

- Number Concepts (+--) 


O Number Concepts 


Table 51 


Summary of Observational Variables with Significant Partial 
Correlations with Two or More Outcome Measures - Teacher Activities 


Outcome Measures 
Teacher Reading Mathematics 
Activities 2 5 2 5 


Academic Organizing (---) 


Answering 

Asking 

At Desk 

At Board 
Checking 
Circulating 
Discussion 
Explaining 
Helping 
Instruction Giving 
Listening 
Question & Answer 
Supervising 


Working with Groups 
or Individuals 


Table 52 


Summary of Observational Variables with Significant Partial 
Correlations with Two or More Outcome Measures - Teacher Responses 


Teacher 
Responses 


Outcome Measures 


Mathematics 


Reading 
5 


2 


5 


Instructing 
Disciplining 
Teacher Help 
Ignoring 

Moves On 

Negative Feedback 
None 

Positive Feedback 
Praise 
Questioning 
Recognizing 


Redirecting 


(++) 


Table 52A 


Summary of Observational Variables with Significant Partial 
Correlations Across Second and Fifth Grades and 
Reading and Mathematics - Pupil Events 


Outcome Measures 
Total Attitude Total Survey 
Pupil Events 


+ Academic Performance 
+ Attentiveness 
+ Direction Following 
Engagement 
Participation 
Volunteering 
Work Habits 
Conduct 
Iaattention 
Talking 
Conduct 
Engagement 
Inattention 
Work Habits 
Oral Reading 
Phonic Skills 
Reading Comprehension 
Number Concepts 
Number Concepts 


Number Concepts 


Table 52B 


Summary of Observational Variables with Significant Partial 
Correlations Across Second and Fifth Grades and 
Reading and Mathematics - Teacher Activities 


Outcome Measures 
Teacher Total Attitude Total Survey 
Activities 


Academic Organizing 


Answering 

Asking 

At Desk 

At Board 

Checking 
Circulating 
Discussion 
Explaining 
Helping 
Instruction Giving 
Listening 
Question & Answer 
Supervising 


Working with Groups 
or Individuals 


Table 52C 


Summary of Observational Variables with Significant Partial 
Correlations Across Second and Fifth Grades and 
Reading and Mathematics - Teacher Responses 


Outcome Measures 
Teacher Total Attitude Total Survey 
Responses 


Instructing 
Disciplining 
Teacher Help 
Ignoring 


Moves On 


Negative Feedback 


None 

Positive Feedback 
Praise 
Questioning 
Recognizing 


Redirecting 


Partial Correlations of Time Allocation Variables with Reading Achievement 


Outcomes 

In an earlier section we described the six time allocation variables 
derived from the Observer Summary Report. For both reading and mathe- 
matics, the time variables are: (1) the mean number of minutes per 


student per day in each context, (2) the mean number of productive 


minutes per student per day in each context, (3) the mean percent total 


minutes per student per day, (4) the mean percent productive minutes per 
student per day, (5) the mean percent gross time per student per day, 
and (6) the mean percent gross productive time per student per day. These 
measures provide us with the actual time spent in each context, the 
number of actual minutes that were judged to be productive, and estimates 
of the average proportion of time students in each class were in each 
context (and the average proportion of time students in each class were 
in each context) and the average proportion of productive time. In 
determining the proportion, the reader will recall that the percents 
were averaged across students for variables 3 and 4 above, and the percents 
also were computed by obtaining the total amount of time across all 
students and then dividing this into the total amount of time in each 
context for variables 5 and 6. (See pp. 62-63 for a complete description 
of the computation procedures. ) 

We did not use the proportion of productive time measures (variables 
4 and 6) in the computation of the partial correlations. We made this 
decision because of the relative infrequency of the "Independent-Individual" 
context, the "Teacher-Individual" context, and the adult contexts. We 
attempted to compute the correlations for those classrooms in which these 


contexts were observed, but the numbers were too few to obtain meaning- 


ful correlations. We decided instead to use the mean number of minutes 
(variable 1), the mean number of productive minutes (variable 2), the 
mean percent total minutes (variable 3), and the mean percent gross time 
(variable 5) as the predictor variables. 

In this discussion we will present the findings relating time 
variables to outcomes by instructional area and grade level. On the 
basis of the results reported thus far, we expect that the relationship 
of these variables to outcome measures will differ with respect to grade 
and curriculum area. 


Partial correlations of time allocation variables with reading 


outcome measures in second grade. Table 53 presents the partial corre- 


lations of the mean number of minutes with the several reading achieve- 
ment measures for second and fifth grades. As this table and Tables 54, 
55, and 56 demonstrate, the only variable with a significant correlation 
to the CAT Reading Comprehension test at second grade is time allocated 
to the Independent-Individual context, which correlates positively. 
However, time in this context at second grade is negatively correlated 
with the Reading Application test, suggesting that the types of reading 
lessons pupils use when working individually and independently of the 


teacher may be an important factor. The correlation between the Inde- 


pendent-Individual context in second grade and CAT Reading Comprehension 


is positive and significant regardless of the time variable used. The 
more productive the student time in context, the better the achievement, 
and the greater the proportion of time in this context, the better the 
CAT Reading Comprehension scores. The negative correlation of this 
context with Reading Application persists at a significant level only 


when the time variables were the actual number of minutes or the actual 


yt" 


8T° 
60° 
00° 


Sut peoy 
DFWepedy TRIO] 


S c S 


4 


qUusUsAST YOY TBO] uot eottddy uo};sueyeiduoy 
Sut pesy But poseqg Sut peey Sutpeey Ly) 


389], 
TenpFAT pul -yv 
dno1i9-y 
S8B1)-V 
TenprAzpul-I 
TenprAFpul-L 
dno19-1 
dno1i9-], 
ssPT)-1 
ssB1)-L 


3x9 U0 


$3Se] Zuppeey-sei0ds [Tez 103 Buft{ToIqUOD sa109g am0>23Ng Sutads y3TA 
($3x93U0) Sutpesy ut Aeg tag Auepnjs 1eqg seqnutW jo Jequny uray) 
SOTQEFABA SWTL AlddV SAL@ JO SUOCTIeTeII0D TeTI1eg 


€S 9TqeL 


OT* > dx 


S vA 
ZuTpeey 
DTWepeoy TeIO]L 


c S c S 4 
quowesAs}Tyoy TeIoOL uot eottTddy uoTsueyeidwuo) 


BuTpeey But poseqg But pesy Sutpeey Lv 


se] 
TenpFrAFpul-y 
dno19-y 
sse®To-V 
TenpFAFpul—-I 
TenpTAFpul-L 
dno15-I 
dno15-] 
sseT)-1 
sset)-lL 


4x9 3uU09 


SjSeajl BupTpeey-se10ds T[eqZ 10x BuyT{[TOAquoD saio0dg aewod3ng Bufads yITm 
(s3xaquo) Butpeeay ut Aeg Jag Juepnisg Jag SeqynuT_ eAFIONporg JequUNN uP) 
SOTQeTAPA BWTL AlddV SALA JO SUOTFIBTSIIOD TePIAP_ 


7S STIPL 


> dy 


SO°- x9Z°- 
90° cT° 
a by 


oe SS 


70° Se 


£0° TO° 
80° 6i"- 


Sut pesy 
DFuepecy [BIOL 


S c S 4 
quewedastyoy TBIOL uot eottddy uo}fsueyeidmoy 


Sut peey Sut poseq But pesy Butpeey Lvd 


3se] 
TenpFrATpul-V 
dno1i5-y 
sseT-V 
TenpFAFpul~-1I 
TenpFAFpul-L 
dno15-] 
dno1i9-], 
sseT)-I 
ssBTO-1 


3x9 QuU04 


S3Sse] BuTpeey-sei02s [Tey 1OJ BuTTTO1AqUOD sei10dg suOd3NO Zufads YyITA 
(s3xequ0D Butpeey ut Aeq Jeq Juepnys Jeg SeINUTW [BIO] JUe1eq UPaH) 
S2TQBTACA SWTL AlddV SALA JO SuUOTFIBTeIIOD [eFIACd 


SS 9T9PL 


S 
Buy peasy 
DFWeproy TeIOL 


S A S j 
queaweaaaTtyoy Teo] uot eot{ddy uoTsueyriduo7 
But peasy But posed Sut peey Sutpeey Lv) 


se] 
TenpFATpul-v 
dno19-V 
ss®TO-V 
TenpFrATpul-1I 
TenpFAPpul—L 
dno19-] 
dno1i9-] 
sseTo-I 
sseTo-1 


3x9 uU07 


S3Se] BuTpeay-se109S [Tey_Z AOJ BufF[TOAquoOD sai0dg aewod3no Buzfads yITM 
(Ss3xejuU0) Buppeey uz Aeg Jeg AUepNyS 4eq SW] Ssoig JUus.1eqg uray) 
SOTQeTIACA WW] AlddV SALA JO SUOTFIBTIAIOD [TBTIACW 


9S 9T9IFL 


136 


number of productive minutes. The proport-:on of time in this context is 
not significantly correlated with reading application. 

While the amount of time pupils worked independently and produc- 
tively in individual contexts is correlated with the reading comprehen- 
sion measures at second grade, time spent by the teacher conducting a 
lesson for the entire class is significantly correlated with the Decoding 
Test at that level. The correlations are quite high (.44 to .50) for 
all time allocation measures. In contrast, the «mount of time spent in 
che Independent-Group contexts, the contexts in which pupils work inde- 
pendently of the teacher on group assignments, is negatively correlated 
with the Decoding Test at second grade. Here we have clear evidence 
that the learning of decoding skills at second grade appears to be 
dependent on the amount of instructional time during which the teacher 
is actively directing the learning of the class. The fact that the 
Teacher-Group context does not show positive and significant correlations 
with the Decoding Test seems to indicate that instruction in second 


grade reading group learning situations does not emphasize decoding 


skills, but perhaps reading comprehension or oral reading skills. Since 


there were no measures of oral reading in the set of outcome measures, 


it is not possible to determine whether there is a relationship between 
any of these time measures in contexts and oral reading skill. 

The fact that the correlations are always negative when time spent 
in the Independ*-*-Group contexts is correlated with the second grade 
reading measures presents an interesting puzzle. We might assume that 
the more time a pupil spends learning, the better the learning outcome. 


One explanation of this finding is that the time measures may have a 


164 


137 


curvilinear relationship to achievement. There is a range of time in 
ontext when learning is optimum. Either less or more time than that 

at which learning is at a peak level produces poorer outcomes. To test 
that hypothesis it would be necessary to explore ways of charting class- 
room achievement with respect to time allocation in order to determine 

what time ranges in each context for each outcome have the greatest 
learning payoff. 


Partial correlation of time allocation variables with reading outcome 


measures in fifth grade. At the fifth grade level where reading instruc- 
tion is frequently carried on in Independent-Class contexts, it is time 
spent in the Teacher-Individual context which is significantly and 
positively correlated with the Decoding Test. This finding and the 
evidence from the second grade data suggest that if decoding skills are 
to be learned, they are learned in instructional contexts where teachers 
are actively directing the learning; the more time spent, the better the 
learning outcome. At fifth grade few pupils need assistance with decoding 
skills. However, those teachers who spend time individually with pupils 
who do need extra assistance have significantly greater improvement in 
decoding than those who do not. 

While gain in reading comprehension skills for second graders is 
associated with the amount of time pupils spend working individually 
and independently of the teacher, at the fifth grade the actual number 
of minutes and the number of productive minutes (though not the proper- 
tion of time) spent by pupils in Tea::her-Class contexts are positively 
and significantly correlated with the CAT Reading Comprehension Test. 
We have to assume that teacher-directed reading instruction at fifth 


grade is positively associated with improved decoding and reading 


165 


138 


comprehension skills and that decoding skills are most effectively 
taught in individual rather than group or class situations at that 
grade level. 


Partial correlations of time allocation variables with mathematics 


outcomes in second grade. For second graders the most effective context 


time allocations for mathematics learning were the individual contexts -- 
Independent-Individual, Adult-Individual and Teacher-Individual. The 
reader will recall that we have reported that these individual contexts 
where pupils are working on individualized mathematics assignments are 
not common in the BTES classrooms and that most of the instruction is 
either by class or by group. The consistently positive correlations of 
the individual contexts with mathematics learning in second grade 
indicate that learning outcomes in these contexts are directly related 

to the amount of time students spend in them (Tables 57 through 60). 


Partial correlations of time allocation variables with mathematics 


outcomes in fifth grade. It is interesting that the most effective use 


of teacher time in fifth grade mathematics was the Teacher-Class context. 
The amount of time and the proportion of time spent in this context is 
consistently and positively related to mathematics learning. Learning 
fifth grade mathematics, like decoding skills in reading, appears to be 
dependent upon the amount of time teachers direct pupils in instruction. 
Both mathematics and decoding skills require rule and principle learning, 
and practice in applying these rules and principles. The more time the 
teacher spends directing these learning experiences, the better the 
learning outcomes will be. Conversely, the time pupils srend on assign- 


ments where the same activity is assigned to all pupils is negatively 


related to mathematics achievement (Ind#vidual-Class context, 


166 


OT’ >dy 


Ise] 
TenpFATpul-vy 
dno19-y 
ss®To-V 
TenpFATpul—-] 
TenpTATpul—-L 
dno1i9-] 
dno15-] 
sseTo-1I 
ss®TO-L 


S vA ¢ c 
yweRK uot eottddy uot ze 3nduwuoy sj3deasu07 3x9 U0) 


D;wapesy TeIOL yaeK yIeW LY yIeN LVD 


S3Sa] SOTJeMeyIeW - S9102S [[eyY AO} Buf{[oOayuoDg sai10dg suod{NnO Bufads yITA 
(S3xeqU0D ST JRWeyIeEW UT ABG Jag JUapNys Jeg sae jNuT_ jo AJequNN ued) 
S89TQeTAeA OWT] ATddV SALY JO SUOTIPTeIIOD TePIWAe 


LS 9T9PL 


60° 70°- = = =c* co 389] 
se 0Z° 90°- x2z° 60°- xI¥° TenpTATpul-V 
=: :aty= so° —"- ee ee dnoi9-y 
¥2Z" | 0°- so° SsPT)-¥ 
eS$z*- wl¥" Zac be TenpTATpul-] 

TenpFATpul-L 

£0° tS 40° dno15-] 

OT° ¢0° dno19-] 

a. a SSsBT)-I 

8T° i Sie 00° sseTo-1 


S vA S A 
y3eW uot 3eottTddy uot je jnduo, Sjdasu04 3x9 quo) 


DTWepeoy TeIOL 4IeW 4Y3PW LVD 43ePnW LVD 


$3Sa] SO;JewWayIeW - Se102S [[e_y AOJ BuT[TOAquoD sa10d9g seMoOd3NO Buyads YyITA 
(s3xeqU0D sd;IeEMayIeW UT ABQ Jeg JUepPNis 12g SeINUTW_ eATIONpoAg jo iequNN ues) 
SOTQeTICA SWEL AlddV SALA JO SUOTFIBTSAAOD [eFIAEY 


8S 9TIPL 


> dy 


3se] 
TenprAtpul-V 
dnoi5-y 
sse®{9-V 
TenprAtpul—-] 
TenpFAtpul-L 


dno1i9-] 


dno1i9-], 
sseTo-I 
sseTo-L 


~ 


rA S 4 
yIen uot elt {Tddy uot ze 3nduwuoy sjzdesu07 3x9 U0) 


DFuapedy [BIO] yIeH YIeW LVD y3eK LD 


SISA] SOTIewayIeW - SeI0XS [[By 1OjJ BuT[TOAquog saio0dg swod3yng Butads yITIA 
(S3xejU0D Sd; eWay IeEW UT Aeg Jag JUepN{s Aseg Sa qNuT_ TeIOL Auedieg uPe_) 
S2TGeTIVA WT] AlddV SAL@ JO SUOTIBTeII0D [eTIIeY 


6S ST9PL 


OT’ >dy 


3sa] 
TenpFAtpul-yv 
dno1i9-y 
sse®t)-Vv 
TenpFATpul~-] 
TenpTAt pul -L 
dno19-] 
dno1i9-] 
sseTo-I 
SseTO-1 


z S A S c c 
y3eK uof edt Tddy uot ze jnduo, sjdasuo0, 3x9 Quo) 


DFWapedy [BIO] yrzeK yIBW LY -y3e®n LO 


S$3Sal SOTFIeWeYIeW - S8I0IS [[e&y AOJ BuyT[[oaquoD saizodg auodjyng Butads yIIm 
(S33xeqUOD SOTJeMeyIeW uy Jueds Aeg Jaq JUapNyS Jeg SWI] SsO1HN JUed1ag UPeay) 
SO9TQETILA BT] AlddV SALA jo SuoFAeTetioD [ePIWIed 


09 9T9PL 


143 


Partial Correlations of Time Allocation Measures with Pupil Attitude 


Outcomes 

Second grade pupil attitude toward reading and mathematics does not 
seem to be affected by the amount of time spent in any of the instruc- 
tional contexts. The possible exception to this generalization is that 
the more time the second grade teacher spends in Teacher-Class instruc- 
tion, the more negative pupils’ attitudes about learning become (Tables 
61 through 64). 

In fifth grade, time devoted to Teacher-Class instruction in both 
reading and mathematics is positively and significantly correlated with 
positive change in attitude. It is interesting to note again the impor- 
tance of time spent by pupils in teacher-directed instruction in decoding 
skills and in mathematics achievement. One possible inference is that 
fifth grade pupils who learn skills in word attack or mathematics have 
more positive attitudes at the end of the year. 

The survey measure reflects self appraisal of competence in school 
and other aspects of self differentiation. Several of the time variables 
are significantly related s positive changes on the survey measure. At 
the second grade level, time in individual contexts in reading is nega- 
tively correlated with the total survey measure while time in group 
contexts is positively correlated. These data suggest that the more a 


pupil's learning experiences differ from those of his classmates, the 


poorer the self-concept outcome (even though time in these contexts is 


positively related to achievement). This generalization is supported to 
some extent by the correlations of time in Teacher-Class contexts for 


second grade mathematics. 


S c 
A@aAIns [eI] 


S rA rA 
ePNITFIIV TeIO] Asains [eo] epnztaay [eI] 


SOILLVYWAHLVR ONIGVae 


Ise] 
TenpTATpuy-y 
dnoi5-y 
sseTo-V 
TenpTAtpuy—-] 
TenprATpuy-] 
dno1i5-] 
dno15-] 
sse®T)-I 
ss®TD-1 


3X93 ]uU0D 


SOWOIIND SPNITIIV - S9I02§ [Tey A0Z BufzTpoaquog sa1z0ds |awodyNng Sutads yatta 
(S3X92U0D SOTIJeMeYyIe_ 10 Burpeay uy Aeg reg juapnas 19q SeInUT_ JO Jequny uPay,) 
. S2TQETIPA SWTL YlddV SAL@ JO SUOTIeTeII0D [eTIIeg 


(9 ®TQPL 


se] 

TeNpFATpuy-y 

dno1i9-y 

ss®T)-V 

TeNpyATpul-] 

TENpFATpu-] 

fi REE le dno15-] 
‘-—- tvo- dno19-] 
a. 2a SSPT9-I 
¥9€° ¥7Z°- SSPTD-L 


S c S rA S 4 
Againg TeIOL eapnztaay TeI¢o] Avainsg [eI] epnjayzaay TeIo]L 3x9 qU0D 
SOLLVWAIHLYW ONIGVaY 


SaWOIINY SpNIaT ay - Se109S [[By AOJ BuT[TOAQuoOD saio0dg swodzNng Buyads YyITA 
(S3xeQuUOoD SOTJeWeYIe_ 10 Suypeay uyt Aeg Aeq JUepNys Jeg SaynuT_ eAFIONporag JO Aaquny uPa2ay) 
S@TQeTACA OMTL AIddV SALA JO SUOTFIVTEAIOD [ePIACd 


c9 PT9UPL 


> dy 


Agaans 


Zz S c S c S r4 
TeIOL @pnzz3zay TeIo]L Asains Teo] epnzzaay TeIOL 


SOLLVWAHLVW ONI GVA 


Ise] 
TenprATpul-Vv 
dno19-y 
SseTo-V 
TenpTATput—-]I 
TenpTAFput-L 
dno1i9-] 
dnoi9-] 
sseTO-I 
SsseTO-1 


3x9 2uU05 


S9UOIINO SpN3z~IIy - Se102S [[ey AOJ BuyT[Toaqzuog sa10dsg awod3ng Buyzads yaATA 
(S3Xe}U0D SdTJeMeYIeW 10 Butpesey uy Aeg Jaq JUepNIS 4aq SeqnuTW [PIO] JuedIeg uPay) 
SOTQeTACA OWT] AlddV SALH JO SUOTIPTeIIOD TeTIA1eY 


€9 9T9PL 


OT’ >dx 


S c S c S a 
Aaaians [eI] apn3ataqy TeIoL Avains [TeIOL epnzatzay TeIoL 


SOLLVYWAH.LVYW ONIGVad 


Ise] 
TenpTATpul-V 
dno159-¥ 
sse®to-v¥ 
Tenprafpul~-] 
TenpTATpul-L 
dno1i5-] 
dno1i5-] 
ssP®To-I 
ss®TO-1 


3x9 qU0) 


$am0I3NQ epnNztTaIy - Se109S [[e_q AOjz BuTT[OAWUOD saio0dg auodzNO Buyads YyITA 
(S3x9qU0D SOTIJeEWMeYIeW IO BuTpesy ut Aeg Jeq JUepNig Jeq BT] Ssoiy JUso18q ue oW) 
S9TGETICA SWE] AlddV SALA JO SuUOFIeTeAAO) [ePIIe, 


79 9T9PL 


148 


Overview of the Relationship of Context Time Allocation Variables 


to Achievement and Attitude Outcomes 


In the following table (Table 64A) we summarize, for reading 
and mathematics, those context time allocation variables which have 
a significant relationship to two or more outcome measures. Within 
the cells of the tables are listed the particular contexts for which 
the time measures (listed in column 1) showed a significant 
relationship to achievement. The direction of the relationship 
among the various context time allocation variables and the 
achievement tests with which they were correlated is indicated 
by the use of "+" and "-"" signs after the context designation. 

For the summary with the attitude measures (Table 64B) we included 
those contexts which had a significant correlation across both 


grade levels within each of the two attitude tests. 


TENPTATpuT jo e8zeyd uz Aseyoesy 

TeENpTATpuT jJO aeBrzeyo UT epty ATjuepuedeput Bupyzom dno1iy 

dnoi8 jo a81ey> ut epTty dnoi3 jo e81eyd uy AeydIee] 

SSPT2 JO e8ieyD UT epty ATjuepuedeput BuyyIA0OM sseTD 
ATjuepuedepuyt BupyYAOM [TeNpTATpu] SSBTD JO e81eyd UT Asy Pe] :pueZey] 


3xequoO) ut Aeg 139g 
(---)9-V quepnjs 19g aut] 
(++)I-L SSOI5 JUadIeg UPeW 


yxequoy uy Aeg 13g 
(---)9-V quepnjs 128g seqnutT, 
(+++)I-L TBIOL AuUsed1eg uPayR 


yxequoyj ut Aeg ieg 
Zuepnis ieg seqnuTDW 
@ATIONpoOAg Asquny ues, 


3xequO) ut Aeg 
(-+) I-I 42g 4yUepnjs 128g 
(---)9-V (==) 9-3 Se nupR AequUNN uUePeW 


S2TQeTIeA 
SITIBwWSYUIeR_ ‘Sup peey UOFIBSOTTY eUTL 


S3Sal JUsWeAeTYXY - SaINsea_ suMoOIINO 2eIOW IO OM] YITA 
UOTIVTIIIOD [eTIASY YURXTIFUSTS YITM SeTQeTABA UOTIPOOTTY SUT] 3xXeQuOD jo AiPMMNS 


V79 ?T9PL 


TENPFATpUF JO eBreyo UT epty I-yV 

dnoi3 jo e82ey2 UT epty 9 

SSPT2 JO s8ieyd ut epty 9-V 
ATjuepuadaepuy Buyy1om [enpyaTpuly I 


TENpTATpuy JO e81eyd uy Asyoseay Jf-] 
ATjuepuedepuy Butytom dnoiyn = 9-] 
dnoi3 jo a8zeyd ut Azeyoeay 5 

AT juepuedepuy Buyzy10M sseT) 9- 
SSPT2 jo a8ieyd uy i1sy ea] 9 


(++) 9-L 


3x9 qUO0D UT 
Aeq Jeg 4uepnys 1ag 
SUT] SSO1I5 Jusel1eg uPayW 


(++) 1-V 
(-++)9-L 


3xX93uU0D UT Aeg Az3eg 
JuepNysS Jeg seqnuTDW 
TBIOL Ausedieg ueey 


(-+) 3-1 (-+4+)9-L 


3xejuc “=~ Aeg tag 
quepNys t2e,, saynutTW 
SATIONpoOIg Jequny ueey 


(-+) 9-1 (-4++)9-L 


3x9 QUOD UT 
Aeq Jeg Juepnys iag 
seqynutW JO 1zequny ueay 


A®AINS TeIOL ePN3taqy [eI] 


SITQPTIPA 


SSdINSPa_ sO DINO 


UOTIBIOTLY eT] 


Seinseay epnjzzIi3y - sop eweyjey pue Burpeay pure 
Sapeig YIsJTI PUB PUOdeg SSO1.y UOTIeTeI1I0D [eT IIeg AUeTZTUBTS 


150 


Y3FA SITQETAPA UOTIBSOT[Y ewTL IxeQuOD jo AreuENS 


a79 9T9eL 


> puesey] 


17% 


Comparisons Between Teachers With Better Than Predicted and Poorer 


Than Predicted Achievement Outcomes Using Crosstabulations of 


Observational Categories 


The data thus far illustrate the variety of information, obtained 
through observations, which can be used to measure teacher performance 
and which has a potentially valid relationship to achievement and atti- 
tude outcomes. Except for the time allocation data, the presentation 
of results has treated the sets of observation variables as though they 
were items in a category observation system. The sets of variables, or 
the categories, are: instructional context, teacher activities, pupil 
events and teacher responses. The interrelationships among the categories 
can be conceptualized in a number of ways, but an antecedent/consequence 
approach focuses on instructional contexts and teaching activities which 
result in particular types of pupil events, which in turn, elicit 
particular teacher responses. The APPLE Information System permits the 
retrieval of all possible combinations of teacher/pupil observation 
variables with the relevant frequency counts. 

One of our underlying assumpticns about teacher performance char- 


acteristics in elementary education programs is that the way the teacher 


organizes instruction determines the extent to which pupils in the 


classroom learn under the teacher's direction or function independently 

of the teacher's instruction. We believe that this organizational 

pattern can affect learning outcomes. We have demonstrated that there 

are great differences in the ways that reading and mathematics instruction 
are organized in the second grade, and that ban reading and mathematics 
instruction differ greatly between second grade and fifth grade. 


Our data show that is unreasonable to specify general teacher perfor- 


179 


152 


mance variables which would uniformly affect reading and mathematics 
outcomes or that would have comparable applicability for the analysis 
of i. struction across grade levels. Furthermore, predictive validity 
studies of the relationship between the observation variables and 
attitude outcomes provide other important findings about teacher 
performance. Teaching characteristics which affect achievement out- 
comes positively do not always have a positive relationship to atti- 
tude outcomes. We conclude on the basis of the work presented in this 
report that teacher performance variables and pupil outcomes must be 
studied by grade level and by specific attitude and achievement out- 
comes in specific subject areas within grade levels. Furthermore we 
believe that an adequate study of classroom observation variables must 
treat groups of variables rather than individual variables as the 
units of analysis for greatest understanding of teaching-learning 
patterns. 

In order to provide a basis for developing additional hypotheses 
about observable teacher/pupil classroom characteristics which are 
associated with greater or less than predicted gains in reading and 
mathematics, we identified at each grade level and in each subject 
area the five teachers whose outcomes were better and the five teachers 
whose outcomes were poorer than would have been predicted by fall test 
scores. The five top and the five bottom teachers were located by 
performing regression analyses for second grade reading outcomes, 
second grade mathematics outcomes, fifth grade reading outcomes and 
fifth grade mathematics outcomes. (Volume I describes the procedures 
used to identify the teachers for the crosstabulations. As reported 
in Volume I, however, there is a discrepancy between the number of 


Me 
\y 


100 


153 


teachers identified. While the top and bottom ten teachers were used 
for the analyses of Volume I, we chose instead to do our analyses with 
only the top and bottom five. This choice should not lead to contra- 
dictory results, however, since selection of the five most extreme 
rather than ten should make more pronounced any differences observed 
between the groups of teachers.) Table 65 presents the distribution 
of the combined second and fifth grade top and bottom teachers with 
respect to SES and location. The reader will observe that the class- 
rooms of the top and bottom teachers were distributed over all loca- 
tions and over all SES levels with the exceptions that there were no 
top performing classrooms in the low/low-middle class suburban areas, 
and no top performing classrooms in middle SES rural locations. 
Overall then, we can be satisfied that the classrooms with better and 
poorer than predicted outcomes were distributed across a wide variety 
of schools and were not associated with a particular SES level or 
geographic location. We can now proceed with the review of the findings 
with respect to teacher/ pupil interaction analyses. In the review to 
be presented, we will not detail all of the possible crosstabulations 
of categories in our discussion. Instead we will illustrate, using 
the example of second grade reading, the ways in which a reader might 
use the crosstabulation tables to develop hypotheses about classroom 
(teacher) pe formance. 


Crosstabulations of instructional contexts and teacher activities 


using the example of second grade reading. We will first examine data 


which test the assumption that teacher and pupil behaviors in differ- 
ent instructional contexts provide performance data of potential 
validity for analyzing outcomes in second grade reading. Table 66 


presents the crosstabulation of teacher activities and instructional 


181 


Table 65 


Distribution of Classrooms with Better than and Poorer 
than Predicted Outcomes in Reading and Mathematics 


Location 


SES 


Low - Low-Middle 
Top Bottom 


Middle 
Top Bottom 


Middle-High - High 
Top Bottom 


Rural 


Suburban 


Urban 


Total 


3 2 


0 2 


4 


3 


3 


1 1 


2 


155 


contexts. A brief explanation about how this table is organized will 
aid the reader in understanding how this specific table was interpreted 
and will also provide a guide for interpreting subsequent tables. 
Reference to the column percents provides information as to how top 
and bottom teachers differ with respect to the frequency of contexts 
associated with a particular teacher activity. As an example, take 
the activity "Circulating" from Table 66. Note that for the top 
teachers two contexts are observed when the "Circulating" activity is 
seen ("I-Class" in 85.7% of the instances and "I-Individual" in the 
remaining 14.3%). For the bottom teachers the activity never occurs, 
regardless of context. Similarly, reference to the row percents shows 
how the top and bottom teachers differ with respect to the frequency 
of activities observed with a particular context. For example, take 
the "A-Group"” context. The percents associated with the teacher 
activities observed for the top teachers in the "A-Group" context are: 
11.1% for "Academic Organizing", 2.2% for "Instruction Giving" and 
86.7% for "Working With". For the bottom teachers, three of the 15 


activities (two of which were the same as for the top teachers) occur 


within the "A-Group" context. The "Percent Column Totals" indicate 


percentage occurrence of each activity compared with all others, 
regardless of context, and the "Percent Row Totals" show percentage 
occurrence of each context compared with all others, irrespective of 
teacher activity. 

Having given examples to illustrate the basic organization and 
use of these crosstabulation tables, we now proceed to discuss the 
important hypotheses generated. In the first table presented (Table 
66), the "Teacher-Group" context and the "Adult-Group” context are 


more frequently observed in the classrooms of the teachers in the top 


183 


“ST #20] 
ugnt o> 
quadieg 


dno19-y 


ay aow i | | 
WelIeg I : t > ; I ‘ a 


Buyepaiadns 
9 “voTisenh 
Buyaty 

uot IINAQeUT 
Burda 
Supsenostg 
Bupsepnz3tyD 


SPPITATIOV ayoRa! 


group, while the "Independent-Group" context is less frequently 
observed. We have already pointed out that the ''Teacher-Group" and 
"Independent-Group" contexts are the most common instructional modes 
for second grade reading. However, the table shows that the top 
teachers, along with other adults in the class, are responsible for 
instruction in over 50 percent of all of the target pupil events. The 
next question asks: Do teacher activities in different contexts vary 
between the top and bottom teachers? Table 66 illustrates the import- 
ant finding that the top teachers use a greater variety of teaching 
activities than the bottom teachers, and that there cre resultant 
differences in the relative frequencies of these activities. The 
"Working With" activity is most frequent for both groups of teachers, 
but the top teachers are observed more frequently working with pupils 
than are the bottom teachers. When top teachers "Work With" pupils, 
the "Independent-Group" and "Teacher-Group" contexts are equally 
dominant as instructional patterns while the bottom teachers "Work 
With" pupils predominantly when the pupils are organized independently 


in groups. Teachers of pupils with poorer than predicted outcomes are 


observed helping pupils more, spending more time organizing the 


lesson, and answering questions more often. Teachers of pupils with 
better than predicted scores are observed more frequencly asking 
questions, checking pupils’ work, giving instructions, listening, and 
conducting question and answer sessions. 


Crosstabulations of instructional contexts and pupil events using 


the example of second grade reading. Pupil behavior is also observed 


to vary with respect to contexts. Pupils in the top teachers’ classes 
have more observable reading events (see Table 67), such as "+ Oral 


Reading", "+ Phonics Skills" and "+ Reading Comprehension". "+ Oral 


130 


dno35-] 


dno19-¥ 


TRI] > } : 
y ; F ‘ d . ¢ $]K3}U09 


or 


BUS Ie2 


tuoug + 
uopyiuelieur 
JueaateBug oO 
JONpucy 
J 2Npuoy 
SITGPH 440m + 
Bupiseiuntor 
watetug + 
yO 2 20110 
a2uwGIO; 184 
;uepwoy + 


STItas 


S20aA9 


Reading" occurs more in the '"Teacher-Group" context than in any other 
context. "+ Phonics Skills” are observed for both groups of teachers 


in the "Independent-Group" and ''Teacher-Group" contexts, but "+ Phonics 
Skills" are observed only for the top teachers in the "Adult-Group" 

and the '"Independent-Individual" contexts. It is of interest that 
there are no reading performance events observed with adults leading 
the instruction in the bottom teachers’ classes. Pupils in the bottom 
teachers’ classes are more often seen manifesting general academic 
skills, following directions, and demonstrating good work habits than 
are pupils in classes of the top teachers. The two groups of class- 
rooms appear to differ with respect to the extent of teacher manage- 
ment of instruction, the variety of classroom activities, and evidence 
of reading skill learning. Of considerable importance is the finding 
that top and bottom teachers do not differ with respect to the frequency 


of observed negative pupil behavior. In fact, pupils in the top 


performing teachers’ classes manifest slightly more negative behavior 


oe. UF ' 


when the frequencies of "= Conduct, - Inattention," and "- Talking" 
events are combined. 


Crosstabulations of instructional contexts and teacher responses 


using the example of second grade reading. Table 68 shows that the 


bottom teachers more frequently fail to respond to pupil behaviors 

than do the top teachers, though "None" is the most frequently ob- 

served teacher response to pupil behavior over all classrooms. The 

bottom teachers use "Discipline" more often than the top teachers, use 

more "Praise", and employ a smaller variety of teacher responses. Top 
teachers employ more interactive types of management such as "Instructing," 


" " 


"Questioning, Recognizing," and "Redirecting" across the several 


contexts. 


187 


Teo] 
umnto) 
WII19g 


F 
“ 
~ 


dno19-] 


N 
Oo 


~ 
i 


—--4+— 


eeety-1 


TENpPTATpul-] 


—~——-—4 ——— 


tier StS 
a 


aa 
zz 


83xe IU05 


que diag 


eitpey 


BSuyuoyisend 
yoeqpaed 
@ATITSO4 
youqpaag 
aATIPZay 
up B8aAOW 

Buzuttdyoeta 


Buyt2 


| ! 
| j 
| 

| 


Sasucdsay iayseay 


Suppray apelin puosas UT Samo DING pa dotpeid 
UBYD 19700g YITA Slay Ra] Ppue paIITpaig uPYyI 18334aq YITA 


a 
SIIYOVA] 103 SyxaQUOy) UT sasuodsay ey Dea] jo SaToUAaNnbary 


RG eTQRT 


Crosstabulations of pupil events and teacher activities using the 


example of second grade reading. The path analysis proposed for 


conceptualizing the relationship between teacher performance variables 
and pupil outcomes postulates that teacher activities generate pupil 
behaviors and pupi] behaviors generate teacher responses. While each 
of these categories of variables may be considered aspects of teacher 
performance, the feasibility of using this conceptual model to analyze 
the reciprocal relationship between teacher and pupil behavior is 
supported by the crosstabulation of teacher activities and pupil 
events presented here and the cross tabulation of pupil events and 
teacher responses to be discussed below. Table 69 provides compara- 
tive information about the teaching activities in which reading skills 
are most evident. In the classes of the top teachers, pupil events in 
"+ Oral Reading" occur in academic organization activities, in response 
to teachers asking questions, during discussions and while teachers 
are listening, as well as in sessions in which teachers are working 
with pupils. On the other hand, all of the "+ Oral Reading" events in 
the bottom teachers’ classes occur during "Work With" activities. A 
similar distribution of "+ Skills" events occur across instructional 
activities for the top performing teachers, while all of the phonics 
events in the bottom teachers’ classes were again in the "Work With" 
activity. Second grade teachers whose pupils showed better than 
predicted achievement in reading utilize pupils' reading skills in 
many more types of instructional activities than do teachers whose 
pupils have lower than expected achievement outcomes. 

The overall frequency of "+ Engagement" events is similar for 


both the top and bottom teachers. However, in activities other than 


189 


ty 


Work With", being engaged in the learning task was observed to be 
present when the top teachers were "Asking" questions, "Checking" 
pupil work, "Circulating" around the room and “Supervising”. The ''+ 
Engagement” events for the bottom teachers were observed instead in 
"Academic Organizing", "Answering" questions, and "Helping" activities. 
Pupils are engaged in the top teachers’ classes when the teachers are 
actively involved in instruction. In the bottom classes pupil engage- 
ment is observed in teaching activities associated with introducing, 
conducting the lesson, and helping pupils who are having difficulties. 
Additional evidence ot more active pupil participation and greater 
diversity of teacher activities among the top teachers can be noted in 
the "+ Volunteering” events. There are no "+ Volunteering" events 
observed in the bottom teachers’ classes, while a small portion of the 
total observed pupil eventS™~in the top classes are "+ Volunteering”. 
These events are observed most frequently.in the "Work With" activity, 
but they also occur in "Academic Organizing", "Asking", and in "Question 


and Answer" sessions. These data contrasting teacher activity/pupil 


event combinations suggest the important hypothesis that crucial 


second grade teacher performances are engaging the active participation 
of the pupils in reading lessons and integrating a variety of teacher 
activities into reading instruction. 

The validity studies of teacher activities in second grade reading 
reported significant correlations with reading achievement over all 
BTES classrooms as a group (see Table 40). The data showed that 
"Academic Organizing" and "Asking" are negatively correlated with some 
measures of reading achievement outcones. By using the crosstabulation 
of teacher activities and pupil events, we can point out some of the 


possible explanations for these negative relationships. The percent 


194 


164 


of "Academic Organizing" activities is slightly higher for the poor 
teachers than for the good teachers. However, there were more "Asking" 
activities for the good teachers. By examining each of the pupil 

events observed within the "Academic Organizing" activity we see that 
the pupil events in the bottom teachers’ classes are "+ Academic 
Performance", ''+ Engagement", "+ Participation", and "0 Conduct". The 
effectiveness of the top performing teachers in using "Academic 
Organizing" time is amply shown by the incidence of pupil events in 

the categories ''+ Academic Performance", "+ Attentiveness", "+ Direction 
Following", "+ Engagement", "+ Volunteering", "+ Work Habits", "+ Oral 


Reading", and "+ Phonic Skills"' as well as the frequent occurrences of 


". Inattention", "0 Conduct", "0 Innattention", and "0 Work Habits". 


The considerably larger proportion of "Asking" activities for the top 
teachers is contrary to the findings for the second grade teachers as 
a group, for which the correlation of this activity with outcome was 
negative. Nevertheless, we can postulate that when "Asking" is ac- 
companied by active pupil responses, such as "+ Direction Following" 
and "+ Volunteering", the effect on outcome may be positive. 


Crosstabulations of pupil events and teacher responses using 


the example of second grade reading. Nearly everyone would expect 


that teachers with the best reading achievement outcomes would have 
few, if any behavior problems in their classes, especially during 
reading. The crosstabulations of pupil events and teacher responses 
(Table 70) show that there are at least equivalent frequencies of 


classroom behavior problems as reflected in "- Conduct and "- Inat- 
tention”. The crosstabulaticns may suggest why the incidence of 


negative pupil behavior is not related to reading achievement outcomes 


in the top teachers’ classes. Earlier we pointed out that there were 


192 


165 


. 
. 


osyead 


aucn 


uy) 989A 


Percent 


. 


. 


-—-— 


193 


166 


a greater variety of teacher responses in the cop classes. Table 70 
provides clear evidence that there are not only a greater variety of 
teacher responses, but that top teachers’ responses to particular 

types of negative pupil behavior vary as well. The top teachers 
respond to "- Conduct" pupil behavior with "Ignoring", "Negative 
Feedback", “None” and "Redirecting". In the bottom performing classes, 


teachers respond to this behavior with "Disciplining" and "None". 


Inappropriate pupil behavior is common to all classrooms. Top scoring 


teachers presumably do not disrupt their teaching to discipline an 
inappropriately behaving pupil. They maintain control of the situation 
by ignoring the pupil and moving on with the lesson. 

Teacher responses such as “Positive Feedback", "Instructing", and 
"Redirecting" were also related to achievement and attitude outcomes. 
However, the relationships were both positive and negative. Conse- 
quently, one must return to the data such as that reported on these 
tables to understand the interrelationship between pupil and teacher 
variables as combined predictors of outcomes. 

This explication of the crosstabulation data for the second grade 
teachers with the top and bottom outcomes in reading achievement has 
been offered to show the reader one way that the wealth of data col- 
lected in the APPLE naturalistic observation system might be used. 
Tables reporting similar results for second grade teachers with the 
best and poorest mathematics outcomes follow (Tables 71-75), along 
with tables reporting the data for the top and bottom scoring fifth 
grade teachers in reading (Tables 76-80) and in mathematics (Tables 
81-85). From a careful review of all of the cells in which inter- 
active data are available, a future task will be to identify the 


frequently occuring teacher activity/pupil event combinations and 


194 


167 


pupil event/teacher response combinations and to use them as independent 


variables in the prediction of pupil outcomes. The APPLE Observation 
System categorizes naturalistic observations and provides data which, 
when analyzed as category data, can produce an initial screening of 
the most salient classroom variables from which to infer teacher 
performance characteristics. The tables reporting the crosstabula- 
tions are excellent evidence for the fact that many of the critical 
teacher performance characteristics are not identified by tallies of 
the overall frequency of their occurrence. Only when teacher activity 
variables are analyzed with respect to the consequent pupil behavior 
and the subsequent teacher behavior is it possible to understand 
differences between teachers with the best and poorest outcomes in 


particular achievement areas. 


168 


Tj 
A 
Jua 184 


} 


+ 


—+ 


Q33m 420m 
Suyszasedns 
g@ wot Isendh 


+ 
os 
6 
’ 
+ 
— . 
. 7 
° AO" 
+ 
re 
i 
® 
3 
- 
2 
» 


SeTILATIOCV 


sayoray 


BurydteHR 


tdxg 


+ 


Sutu 


SoTIPMAYIS_ apw. 


Bupssrostg 


~ 
4 
0 
c 
- 
oe 
° 
es 
~ 


. + 2 
+ 
4 : 
t moy 
+ 
De 
_ 
4 
v 
. 


SALTIPATIOCV say 


suy4asy 
Su pseasvy 


oD ee eT #I0L 
| 4209 ante; 
s‘9 | qUaD104 
dno019-1 
0'SZ 
serTD -1 
*SS 
TEOPTAtpUT -7 
0's 
e "oP 
dno3i9-] 
| ee¥TD-1 
doj 
9 | 
4no1i9-y 
I do1\ 
rt 1 
109 #201005 | 


>ymapeoy 


APTATPUT =I 


4019-1 


anoin-y 


= 


Bis! [ ; : 
ao , y , » . -_ m - ; Ite U0) 


yUeDIe4 


1784 + 


juewe Se fug 
JIN PUG) 
2OSIUNT OR 


 .ueeeSetug + 


e2tqeH 279K 0 
uoyIue2300 


gu 


eouerqg {14 


170 


A 


w07308| peaot 
uwnytoo 
dol quel18d 


2 Ze I 
7°t 0°0"” & eee |S°2 
| ed Hi 


L’s 0°02 L°s 


ae ERA 


9°2 [°Tl 


dnoi9-1 


| 
: 

o1| 
Mee) rete soma seerae sos 

03 30g | 
eeet)-1 

doy | 
a 
dnoi9-V 

do} | 
| % 2G ie. ae ey, Se eee ee 
ro) | now «ToD | Mow «TOD | MOU = «T9D oe 


youqgpeed 
aati ts0d 
youqgpeed 
aay 3e8an 
Buyio0usyT 

ButdteH 


Bupuoyt3 sendy 
SuzuyTdsoeta 


J SOIREE? SEM TT, ramen enaatiem : 
ee | | 
| S 
| 
| 
| 


Pacer ke 
gasuc0dseay 194yPFL 


| | 
oe eee ee ee 
aac L 


Reena erase tite L 
Gasuodsag 194IPOL 


es oyaemayIeW FPF19 puorag &, »eaooINO parotpatd 
ueya 1322004 YITA piayoral pus parTPerd ueya 192729q 4274 


giayoval 103 93x97005 uy saeucdeay yayoral 3° gatouanbal4 


€¢ atqel 


pirog iy 


172 


NT : pee 
‘ en 
mance 
-—_—___—________- ee Cn oe cecigguanipensniaily ol + + -_---—-— -— 
5 a9 2 
. e@s% 
+ : + + OO rae | a + = 
5 os 20.9 -_ < 
. geRent 
_ . ‘ - + a eee —- ——+ ee t serena aus 
1.5 1 
“ pact 
- - _ a nee | | + + + ~~ -—— - 
lt 3.3 ) Se 1. 
+ ° - - ae | ————$_ $= a ee + —_—+ —_— — : _ ERR Reman 
. ™ 5 1% 
+ b 82.6 40.0 9: 66 . i 
. . 
. . ~ - ae a a | ——~~—-—— -—- —--- o “ + + + + 
>.2 x ; . 
+ — ———— —+ — $$ _____—__ + as ee ae . + : —— 
; 3 a 6 82.4 6.91 & s ; 1.9: 3 : 
$4.¢ 
: - _— * -_ > ae _ . - , - 
r = 7 7 3.3 ? 
9.1 &.1 2 ’ ’ gs 


29 
ww J 


173 


laasuy 


“i > » > 
g ; - ; : 
. ; : . 
2 
futpeayw ape jt4 ut © . . 


jaaecy 


sye3 
wanT 
Wel 


seerl 


ReRy 


si xe 0 


174 


mt 


j 

| 

| 

= 

| 

| 

| 

} 

— 
~ [eIe] 

“oy 

2UPI18¢ 


ey - 


{ 
| ; 
} 
j 
} 
; z 
: 
° 
© 
¢ 
} . 
j = 
> 
or 
. 
s3Uar4 


uot 


—} 


aonpuod oO 


ss 
< | 
| 
| 
Es URES VS 
| 
| 
Pte FRR | 
€*s € "91 | Sus 2° Oy 
oeaeoe 4 
° "9 ¢ 79 
| ! 
SOEs sie SURED 
. > 99 | 
3 ! 
sb | 
| 
1 ee 
- Sake Bae See a 
o> aoe Pe] no¥ 
z ; ae | 7 
| ey 1 iy 
as De Bes | 
See Le 
D } ° 
ae cae 
= ' 
eo 
Sawo>ir pe) 
PUP paerltpary vey 
its s)ue rydn 
stor 


| f i 
| 
i 
| vet | 
‘- ips chailanaesctbig 
| | 
| | 
\8 8'7i 18"6 
| 
| } 
aS « Beas BEN 
99 92 
i 
ECAR CE 
5 top | 
e727 > 27 | 
| 4 j 
" 5 bE 
| ' re | 
| 
ost yee | 
! } 
} | 
} } 
le°zr 1 
| 
ao¥ te Ao 
> j 
i x | 
| ° 
| j 
. 
| =x 
| - 
LA 
} re 
” 
} a 
| 
ins 


+ 


Buysasaranyon 


no" 
+ 
~ 
. 
a 
° 
on 
n 
v 
7 
5 
- 
r) 
3 

S uaa 


jueeeSeBug +) 


woTIDIBATG +) 


SeeuUsaAT IUeIIY + 


eouwarojieg 


ano ir 


aay ve] 


TeI0] 
uwnto) 
quediag 


dnoi9-l 


| wo3.9.0g | 
sseD-1 
doy 


| woz30g 
TENPTATPUT-] 
|o°0z o'Oos sex 


M02 3.08 | 


doy 
case 


w0Z 30g 
do] 
: ba 


woz20g 


dno19-¥ 


S°% 


THIOL | | i 
Ao" ) é D2 | M0) ae TOD | MOY TOD | 
quaciag : si see seit eos 5 FeSaieanies a 3 sai ieee gaa dceouilgajiateeseaatiosiaab oie 


| 
| 


83xeQU0D 


» 
yoeqpee, 
youqpeed 
@atIesan 


Buy .e1Tpey 
Zuyuotiee 


Butz pUusB0Dey 


| 


| 


Sasuodsey iayseay Sasuodsag 19jIPay 


Buypeay epr1zy YIstA UF SeMoDING paIdoTpeld 
PU 1aIOOg YITA S1ayre7y, pue pazIdTperzd VRYI 19339q YITA 
Bal 103 $3KAI ) VE sasuodsay ay .Pay jo satouenbery 


H 


Wi aTqR] 


}o°ooT t’e |} 


ee ee 


12°Cs 
| 


10°02 o°'o0T! 


0°S7 | 0°02 


levee 6'zy | 
POSEY SCE eremen (TRAM Ens Y whe | 


é°at 


sanidiihaseabibaipeaball io sasaki 


- e°22 38°s cee : 
O'oot ot | 


<6 | 


ipopiawg + 
or mOp 184 


SOBOIING PFI TPeIG 
Wy) 329220q YITA 
Tténq JO wey oUeNndery 


Vuypeay eperay uaita 
UPD 191004 YIJA BLeyFe] pUuw PRI Tpery 
SLPYOWSL 10) SOTIFATIOV 29N9"9, UTYITA B2UBAg 


61 P19") 


Teachers 


for 


than 


Events 


Pupil 


eacher Responses Associated with 


Frequencies of 


- 
© 
¥ 
° 
6 

= 

~ 
3 
. 
» 
« 
£ 
] 
. 
* 

Pt 

v 
€ 
2 
a 

.) 
. 
- 

a 
¢ 
« 

= 


with Better 


in Fifth Grade Reading 


Outcomes 


Predicted 


TEACHER RESPONSES 


astTeig 


yoeqpaad 
@atizeog 


woeQpeed 


aati esen 


Buy10u8] 


ButdteH 


BuyurTdroetg 


Supa nsziesuy 


liveness 


Attent 


3.8 100.0] 


i+ @) 
~ 
~ 


a] x 

® c 
of 

7 

¥ 


Is¢n> 


¥ 


Sony 


vupyey 


| 
} 
—- + 
Ee Os 
‘ 
| 
+ 
maOM T 
+ 


dor) 


~ {wao, 
umn] o> 
WGI 204 
dnoi9-1 


TEMPTAtpuy ~] 


dnoag-] 
eertD-1 


Ba@j}uoy 


206 


179 


1 oy a py =o - r + 
t ¢ 0°2 > ett | oz | eZ ar 
———— + 25 + Sennen $$ $f —___—_—_}—_—__—_——_ ++ - + - 
i | | [ “+5 5 ) 
i ie i é 
| 
1°62 lc z os |a°9 09 |" Cz eee} ez cotheeze ots tee cree Ie r6 lett siz9 | 
}. _— + sae | — — eee Bn i on I neem - —— + — —+ —~+-—_— 
‘ > » “9 I AOS » | . } 
: \" 2 er } if f g°¢ | is i | 
I*s€ 16°T S \ { ” jo°t €*€t L’s OST Ett €°CE iS‘d °° Of I. , it j6°1 
+ 4 ~ --+ - am 1 a ae —-—+ - SE ee Se - * $= - 
g°s | i 6 | | 
i | | 
| | | } 
| | | 
+ - + +— — te — + - —— _ + + 
[*te id e’re | 2 I ; 9 It ifs | | 
' “ bere cree 2 9'6s sios | 
. | | | | fe i SS 4 / : | 
= - 4-—- - + + — + + + — —— --+ ~ + . + 
| } 
3 > feF #1 al 2a 6 i | t $ f | | | j 
tl | S | t ett CCR ies o's fe a9 | j 
1 1 } | 
= + + + — + + + - —-- + + + + 
} } T ] 
| | i | | 
| | | | 
| | 
} | } | | 
+ + + 4 - 4 4 . } + + + 
wes0, | 2% 2 2 z z ae a io. Pa t z z z z I i bf t z 24 rd z 
met aoy 1°) oy ” aoy To acy ao aor J mou To) moe To aoe ToD mo" mc T no" To Aoy 
2@e2104 + + ae + + + + | 4 + + ; + 
| | + ° ° ° ° ' | ‘ ‘ + | | + 
H | } j | 
' 4 xc a | om o 4 he > x | < | ~ 
Zz z | 4 | ° | 2 | é ° | . z | S r | ry ° 
i a | a ba] | / I ~ | 2 a } A +f 
g | a . ! cr | £ a | . j . c ° 
° * | . | a | € » | n } c | 5 
fae een, ° z 3 5 ea ee ee Bae a 
i ' c | & - | g e } j ay ’ 0 
5 } j > - oS 3 | » | ” os 
3 | 3 } * S | a } 8 | = bf 
° | | al e j sad | | | | } } 4 4 
® | 2 | | | - 8 
| ? } | > | | | | } 
\ a i i ° 4 4 i L i Bi se L | } 
i @3uaeaq [dry Se uaq 
ST IewayIe_ FPRAN YIFTA VF S@MODING PHI TPG 
veyd 191003 YIJA S1E9YDwe] PUR PeITPe2g WRYI 1933eq YITA 
Srayowal 103 Ba ea pK UTUITA @ @aq Trdngq jo gazyouenberg 


= 


ee 


et age 


oo 


i 


jueseSe8uz + 


ButaotTod 


wot 320210 + 


SOUSATIUSIIV + 


$—————- + ————_—+ 


wemioj20eg 


2 }eanwoy + 


| 


Te307 
wmanto) 
WUeI1eg 


dnoi9-1 


TEMP TATPUT~I 


dno015-1 


eevto-1 


1 


dno15-¥ 


S3ze 005 


207 


Te sol 
urayto9 
II10g 


dnoi9-] 


TENPTATPUI-] 


que l2eq 


dno19-y 


v4 


| 
| 
} 
| 
ty 
| 
| 
| 


7] 


Buy I2ea1T pey 


youqgpee, 
PATIF9OY 
yoeqgpeed 
aati esay 


IN LIE 


Buyuorisenh 


a nee 


sasuodsay iaiyseay 


ee 


sasuo 


Buysousy 


Fe sone 
dsag iaydeay 


Suzuttdtoetq 


Sut oOn134sVT 


$3xe U0) 


SOITIPMAYIS_K sepesH YIJtA UT SamooInH paistpeaig 


UBYI 2IIOOg YITAM SJayrIea] pue paIdtpearag ueYyI 2a33ag 
yo satouanbary 


SIsayRa] AO SB yxaquoy) ut sasuodsay TayoVa] 


€g ATqeI 


YyItA 


Burats 
uot IINIIsUy 


Buyuzeldxy 


-—----- 4 


Suyssnost 


Responses Aes ated 
Predicted and 
tcomes 


uestioning 


Feedback 


7 

or 

« 
Zz 


ra} 


Summary of the Findings from the APPLE Observations 


The behavior recording systen employed in APPLE observations provided 
data on pupil behavior in reading and mathematics instruction, teacher 
responses to pupil behavior, the instructional contexts for both instruc- 
tional areas at each grade level, and the teaching activities which 
typified teacher behavior at second and fifth grades in reading and 
mathematics lessons. In addition, time duration data were available. 
These data reflected time allocation of instruction in the several 
contexts which were common to the BTES classes. In this section, we 
will review the several generalizations we have made. These generali- 
zations summarize the results of our investigation, and provide informa- 
tion about second and fifth grade teacher performance characteristics as 
well as the validity of these characteristics for predicting children's 


learning. 


Description of Pupil and Teacher Behavior in BTES Classrooms 


From the discussion of the statistics describing central tendencies 
and variabilities of these data across classrooms, instructional areas, 
and grade levels, several statements appropriately summarize the results. 

1. Differences in incidence of pupil events are a function of the 
inc-tructional area, the instructional context and the teaching activities. 
This finding means that one must expect to find different types of pupil 
behavior and differing frequencies of pupil behavior, depending on 
whether the child ’‘is a second or a fifth grader, whether he is involved 
in reading or mathematics lessons, whether he is working with the teacher 


or independently, and what the activity of the teacher is. 


id 


In general, wc can conclude that fifth graders will be expected 


to spend more of their classroom time working independently of the 


teacher for both reading and mathematics activities than will second 
graders. While there is considerable variability among second grade 
teachers in the use of different instructional contexts, second grade 
pupils will be involved in more teacher-directed instruction than fifth 
graders. 

The quality of teacher responses to pupil behavior is very 
similar across both grade and instructional area. The respons- of 
"None" to observed pupil behavior occurred about two-thirds of the time. 
We do not mean to imply that a teacher response should accompany every 
observed pupil behavior; rather the data indicate the probability of the 
occurrence of any teacher response to pupil behavior in the classroom. 

In organized instructional periods such as reading and mathe- 
mazics, conduct problems and need for teacher disciplining are not 
common. This finding suggests that supervisors, and others who visit 
classrooms, cannot rely on the absence of conduct problems as good 
evidence for teacher competency. Inappropriate behavior during academic 


lessons was relatively rare. 


Descriptions of Time Allocations in Contexts in BTES Classrooms 


When we examined teacher performance with respect to the ways 
teachers distributed classroom instructional time in different contexts, 
these generalizations followed from the descriptive statistics. 

Second graders spend more total minutes in reading instruction 
than do fifth graders, and this is primarily reflected in more time 


spent in group instruction and time spent being taught by other adults. 


Independent-Individual contexts, those contexts in which pupils were 
working on an individualized assignment different from other pupils and 
independently of the teacher, were more common in second grade reading 
than in second grade mathematics and also more common than in fifth 
grade instruction. 

One surprising finding was that the average proportion of pupil 
productive time in individual contexts in reading was relatively small. 
Few pupils receive such instruction and of those who do, the average 
percent of productivity as judged by the observers was lower than the 
percent of gross productivity. This finding implies that the teacher's 
choice of this context for certain pupils is not always a wise on2. 
Only those pupils who can manage such a context for significant periods 


time (probably greater than 5 to 10 minutes) are likely to profit 


3. The primary difference in time allocation in mathematics between 
grades was the relatively greater proportion of time spent in Teacher- 
Class contexts at’ second grade. 

The time spent in Independent-Individual, Adult-Individual, 
Teacher-Individual and Aduit-Group contexts is not generally productive 
time in mathematics when the percent of productive time was averaged 
across pupils. However, when the gross productive time was computed by 
finding the proportion of productive time by classroom, rather than 
averaging across pupils, the productivity rate for these contexts was as 
high as for other contexts. This finding, along with the similar result 
reported for second grade, indicates that only a few pupils work produc- 
tively in individual contexts. Therefore the average pupil productivity 


is lower in individual contexts than it is in settings where instruction 


219 


186 


is by greup or by class. However, individual contexts are apprcepriate 
and productive for some pupils. Thus, when one looks at the rate 
obtained by dividing total productive time for all target pupils by 
total time in that context for all target pupils, the productivity is 


higher. 


Validity of Observational Variables for Predicting Rez.ding Outcomes 


The great variability in pupil and teacher behavior between grade 
levels and between instructional areas leads to the preliminary ccnclu- 
sion that we can not eapect to find a set of teacher performance variables 
which will be valid for predict.ng learning outcomes across prade levels 
and instructional areas. The resu.ts of the partial correlations between 
observation variables and the reading achievement measures support this ~ 
initial impression. Some of tne generalizations that we can make on the 
basis of correlations between observation variables and reading achieve- 
ment are: 

1. Talking out inappropriately in classrooms during reading instruc- 
tion was uniformly related to poorer reading outcomes. There was also 
an inverse relationship between the obse-ved frequency of pupil behavior 
which was not consistent with teacher expectations (but not necessarily 
serious enough to warrant teacher intervention) and achievement outcomes. 

2. Evidence of positive achievement in phonics skills was positively 
correlated with outcomes for second grade and negatively correlated with 
reading outcomes for fifth grade. This suggests that teacher instruction 
in phonics skills enabled second graders to improve their achievement. 
However, it appears that teacher instruction in phonics at fifth grade 
was directed at pupils with learning difficulties and perhapyw was not 


the most effective means by which to improve learning for all pupils in 


the classroom. a4 4 


3. Conversely, evidence of positive achievement in oral reading 
was positively correlated with outcomes at fifth grade, but not at 
second grade where oral reading is regularly observed for all pupils in 
reading instruction. 

4. With regard to teacher activities, we offer the tentative 
hypothesis that the more the teacher is involved in organizing the class 


for instruction (as evidenced by negative correlations between activi- 


ties like "Academic Organizing, Asking Questions, Discussion," and 


' 


"Instruction-Giving,'' and reading achievement) and the less the teacher 


is involved in "Working With" pupils and "Checking" to see if they are 


understanding their work, the poorer the end of the year reading achieve- 
ment. We do not intend to imply that teacher activities like "Academic 


oe. oe 


Organizing, Asking" questions and so forth are not important teacher 
performances. However, as the frequency of these activities increases, 
the frequency of actual instruction decreases. Consequently there will 


be reduced opportunity for reading instruction, resulting in less 


improvement in reading at the end of the year. 


Validity of Observational Variables for Predicting Mathematics Outcomes 


In comparison to reading outcomes, a different set of observation 
variables were valid for predicting mathematics learning. The following 
conclusions follow from the analysis of the validity of the observation 
variables: 

In second grade mathematics lessons during which there is a 
high frequency of inappropriate conduct, obvious inattention to class- 
room work, and talking out of turn, there is more likelihood that 
achievement scores in mathematics will not increase as predicted at the 


end of the year. 


188 

2. Though noticeably inappropriate behavior did not characterize 
fifth grade pupils in mathematics assignments, the frequency of inatten- 
tion to task which was not disruptive or particularly noticeable was 
uniformly negatively correlated to mathematics learning. 

3. The frequency of Independent-Group and Independent-Class 
contexts was negatively correlated with achievement outcomes at both 
grade levels, suggesting that classrooms in whic: pupils were working 
independently of teachers most of the time were those with poorer 
mathematics achievement. 

4. A surprising finding was that teacher instructional activities 
were observed with less frequency in mathematics than in reading. Only 
"Asking" had a significant correlation with outcome and it was negatively 
correlated. The tentative conclusion is that teachers who spend time 
asking questions are those whose lessons are not understood or whose 
assignments are at an inappropriate level of difficulty. 

5. Six out of 12 teacher responses at fifth grade and three of 12 
at second grade had a significant relationship to mathematics achieve- 
ment. At second grade, teachers who employ disciplining, recognizing, 
and redirection have poorer than expected achievement. At fifth grade, 
giving hel», providing positive feedback, and praise are positively 
correlated with achievement. Recognizing and redirecting are negatively 


correlated with mathematics learning at fifth grade. 


Validity of Observation Variables for Predicting Attitude Outcomes 


A most interesting finding was that teacher performance variables 
which have a valid relationship to pupil's learning may have an 
inverse relationship to changes in pupil's attitudes toward learning 


and toward themselves. 


216 


Different sets of appropriate and inappropriate pupil behavior 
were correlated with reading and mathematics attitudes and for second 
and fifth grade. We have to conclude, therefore, that it is unrealistic 
to assume that one can define an omnibus set of teacher performance 
variables, which, if present in a group of teachers, will guarantee 
positive learning outcomes as well as positive attitudes. 

2. With respect to attitudes toward reading and mathematics, 
second grade classrooms in which target pupils were observed to be 
positively engaged in the activities of the class and in which they were 
not misbehaving or talking out inappropriately were those with the most 
positive attitudes at the end of the year. 

3. Since the Pupil Survey items ask questions about how children 
judge their abilities with respect to peers, it was not surprising that 
some pupil event variables evidencing appropriate pupil behavior had 
negative correlations with the survey measures. In some clssroors, 
positive participation of target pupils may cause pupils to contrast the 
adequacy of their performance unfavorably with that of their classmates, 
resulting in a negative correlation between some positive behaviors and 
the survey measure. 

4. At second grade, "Academic Performance," "Attentiveness" and 
"Direction Following" had a positive relationship to the survey measure 
suggestinre an age difference in the implications of these types of pupil 
behavior on attitudes toward self worth. 

There seemd to be no significant relationship between the 
incidence of the instructional contexts and attitudes across either 
grade level or instructional area. Attitudes, therefore, are more 


dependent on teacher and pupil behavior in the classroom. 


217 


The teacher ‘activities which are significantly related to 
attitude and are always positively correlated with attitude and survey 


outcomes across instructional area are: "Checking," "Listening," 


"Supervising". Those with uniformly significant negative correlations 


are "Circulating" and "Instruction Giving". 

Teacher responses to pupil behavior had different patterns of 
relationships to attitudes according to whether teacher responses were 
observed in reading or mathematics and whether pupils were second or 
fifth graders. The data indicated that the ircidence of disciplining 
and negative feedback in a classroom cannot be judged to be always nega- 
tively correlated to general attitudes in the classroom. On the other 
hand, the extent of positive feedback was always positively related to 
attitudes when the partial correlations were significant. 

8. From the analysis of teacher activities and responses, we 
tentatively infer that teacher behavior which calls attention to chil- 
dren, and perhaps places them in an unfavorable comparison with their 
classmates, may have a negative affect on attitude, even though these 
same teacher behaviors have a positive relationship to achievement 


outcomes. 


Overview of Relationship of Observation Variables to Achievement and 


Attitude Outcomes 


The criterion of retention of an observation variable as a poten- 
tial measure of teacher performance was a significant relationship with 
two or more outcome measures. The criterion of retention for attitude 
outcomes was a significant correlation with an outcome at both 
grade levels. Using these criteria of retention, only a handful of 


APPLE variables could not te considered potentially valid teacher 


performance measures. However, there are enough differences between 
grade levels and between reading and mathematics instruction that we 
cannot generalize across grades and instructional areas regarding which 
teacher performance data will always be valid for predicting pupil 


achievement or attitude outcomes. 


Time Allocation Data as Predictors of Learning and Attitude Outcomes 


The length of time pupils spent in some instructional contexts 
relates to achievement and attitude outcomes. Some of the interesting 
findings were: 

1. The more time pupils spent in individual contexts in second 
grade reading, the better their performance in reading comprehension. 

2. While the amount of time second grade pupils worked indepen- 
dently and productively in individual contexts was correlated with the 


reading comprehension measures, the amount of time the teacher spent 


conducting reading lessons for the class was significantly correlated 


with the Decoding Test. The data offered clear evidence that the 
learning of decoding skills at second grade was dependent upon the 
amount of learning time during which the teacher is in charge of class 
instruction. 

3. The amount of learning time in context does not always have a 
positive relationship to outcomes. An example was the negative correla- 
tions between the Independent-Group context and the reading measures. 
Time measures may have a curvilinear relationship to achievement. Some 
effort to determine the amount of time which is the optimum for learning 
in each context would be an excellent way to extent our understanding of 


the duration of classroom experiences and learning. 


192 


4. Fifth graders who spent more time in contexts where teachers 
are in charge of instruction have higher scores on reading comprehension 
measures. 

5. The most effective context time allocations for mathematics 
learning were the several individual contexts. Even though individual 
contexts were common to only a few BTES classrooms, the data indicated 
that the more time second graders spent in individual contexts, and the 
more this time was productively spent, the better their mathematics 
learning. 

6. While time spent in individual contexts in mathematics was 
important to second grade mathematics achievement, the amount of time 
pupils were taught mathematics by the teacher in fifth grade classes was 
significantly related to outcomes. 

7. Both mathematics and decoding skills require rule and principle 
learning and practice in applying these rules and principles. The more 
time the teacher spends directing these learning experiences, the better 


the learning outcomes. 


Interrelationship of Pupil and Teacher Observation Variables 


In order to illustrate the importance of studying the observational 
data as sets of interdependent pupil and teacher characteristics, we 
prepared tables reporting the frequencies of occurrence of pupil behavior 
in contexts, teacher activities in contexts and teacher responses in 
contexts. These Kaien provided an excellent overview of the kinds of 
pupil and teacher behavior one is likely to observe in these contexts. 
Since the tables contrasted observational data for the most and the 


least successful teachers in terms of predicted learning outcomes, they 


provided an interesting set of additional descriptions of important 


220 


teacher performance measures. One additional set of tables reported the 
pupil behavior in different types of teaching activities, and another 
reported the teacher responses which were associated with pupil events. 
The APPLE Information System makes possible the retrieval and 
analysis of any combination of pupil and teacher behavior variables. 
With the availability of such computer programs and the information 
offered in the tables reporting the crosstabulations, an important next 
step in understanding teacher performance characteristics will be a 
study of the interactions of pupil and teacher characteristics. The 


goal would be to study teacher and pupil behavior jointly as variables 


rather than to treat each set independently as we have done in this 


extensive overview of pupil and teacher behavior in the BTES classrooms. 


Conclusion 


In general the data reported here support the use of a behavior 
recording system as a valid tool for studying teacher performance charac- 
teristics. The APPLE system makes the fewest a priori assumptions about 
the nature of teacher and pupil behavior, can describe pupil and teacher 
characteristics with considerable fidelity, and identifies those pupil 
and teacher behaviors which are significantly related to learning and 


attitude outcomes for a particular grade and instructional area. 


References 


Biddle, B. J. Methods and concepts in classroom research. Review 
of Educational Research, 1967, 37, 337-357. 


Eiduson, B. T., Brooks, S. H., and Motto, R. L. A generalized 
psychiatric information-processing system. Behavioral Science, 
1966, 11 (2), 133-143. 


Flanagan, J. C., and Schmid, F. The critical incident approach to 
the study of psychopathology. Journal of Clinical Psychology, 1959, 
15, 136-139. 


Haeberle, A. W. Observational research with emotionally disturbed 
children: III. Quantification of observational data in various 
stages of research. Symposium, 1958, Session II. American Journal 
of Orthopsychiatry, 1959, 29, 583-589. 


Kowatrakul, S. Some behaviors of elementary school children related 
to classroom activities and subject areas. Journal of Educational 
Psychology, 1959, 50, 121-128. 


Lambert, N. M., and Hartsough, C. S. Lexicon for observation in the 
schools. Project Report, The Stress of School Project, 1971, 
University of California, Berkeley, Grant No. MH 14605, National 
Institute of Mental Health. 


Lambert, N. M., Hartsough, C. S., Converse, F. L., and Converse, E. K. 
Anecdotal processing to promote the learning experience. Project 
Report, The Stress of School Project, 1971, University of California, 
Berkeley, Grant No. MH 14605, National Institute of Mental Health. 


Lambert, N. M., Hartsough, C. S., Caffrey, C., and Urbanski, C. 
APPLE: Lexicon for APPLE observations. Berkeley: University of 
California, 1976. 


Lambert, N. M., Hartsough, C. S., Caffrey, C., and Urbanski, C. 
APPLE: Manual for APPLE observers. Berkeley: University of 
California, 1976. 


Prall, R. C. Observational research with emotionally disturbed 
children: Session I, Introduction. American Journal of Ortho- 
psychiatry, 1959, 29, 223-226. 


Thomas, D. S. A symposium on the observability of social phenomena 
with respect to statistical analysis. I. An attempt to develop 
precise measurements in the social behavior field. Sociologies, 
1932, 8, 436-456. 


APPENDIX A 


Exploration of the Reliability of 
the APPLE Observation System 


Sources of Error in APPLE Observations 


In the main body of our report, we discussed sources of error in 
classroom observation procedures. The primary source of error to be 
minimized for most accurs.te measurement is error in the sampling of events 
to be observed. In the APPLE observations this error enters the record: 
1) when observers do not see an event, 2) when observers position themselves 
by choice, or by circumstances beyond their control, so that observation 
of target pupils is difficult, 3) when observers do not observe the target 
pupils as directed, 4) when there are an insufficient number of obser- 
vations of target pupils so that the event record is a biased sample of 
classroom behavior, 5) when observers do not describe an event with 
enough precision so that it can be encoded unequivocally, and 6) when 
observers fail to make a record of significant events. 

There are other sources of error in the recording of behavior records 
which affect sampling of the classroom behavior, but they are procedural 
rather than sampling errors, and likely to account for low reliability 


between records of observer pairs when they observe the same classroom 


on the same day. Some of these procedural problems are: 1) not 


establishing times to begin and to end the observation record, 2) not 
agreeing on a procedure for the order in which target pupils are to be 
observed, and 3) observing in classrooms where movement around the room 
is impossible so that target pupils are observed from different vantage 
points. Procedural problems 1) and 2) can be minimized with instructions 
about when to begin and end the dual observations and about how to decide 


initially the order of observation of target pupils. Problem 3) can be 


200 


minimized by having more days of dual observation so that there is a 
larger event record and consequently a mcre adequate sampling of class- 
room behavior. 


Types of sampling error in the APPLE observation record. Reliability 


of reports of instructional contexts are subject to sampling error due to: 
1) failure of the observer to record all context changes for target pupils 
and 2) the position of the observer in the classroom. The former source 
of error can be minimized by observer training; the latter usually is 
dependent upon the degree to which all of the target pupils are easily 
observed. For example, in "open" classrooms where pupils work indepen- 
dently on a variety of activities during an instructional period, it may 
be difficult to observe all of the context changes. In some BTES class- 
rooms, target pupils were moved back and forth from an Independent- 
Individual, to a Teacher-Individual, to an Adult-Individual, and then to an 
Independent-Group context as they finished one assignment, went on to get 
instructions for another, began and finished that one, and then moved on 
to a previously designated activity. When all target pupils are variously 
engaged in such movement, error enters the observation record because 
the observers cannot obtain a complete sampling of context changes. More 
observations would reduce sampling error. 

Error in the sampling of teacher activities is dependent on error 
in the sample of target pupil behaviors. Sampling error in the record 
of teacher activities occurs when the teaching activity associated with 
the target pupils is not an adequate sampling of teaching activity for 
the class as a whole. This error can be minimized by having more 


observations, as well as controls for the above-mentioned . 


225 


error in the pupil event record. Teacher responses are also dependent 
on the sampling of behavior for the target pupils, and sampling bias is 
the record of teacher responses can be kept minimal by control of tie 
sources of error in the pupil event record. 


Types of procedural error in the APPLE observation system. The 


procedures for observation in the BTES project provided for 20 days of 
observation by pairs of APPLE observers. These days were scheduled by 
the ETS Berkeley office on different dates throughout the observation 
period. There were no special instructions for the APPLE observers on 
the paired observation days, a factor which introduced procedural error 
over which we had no control. The observers confronted other problems, 
such as teachers scheduling a movie for the reading period, teachers arranging 
for instruction other than what was expected, teachers being absent, or 
observers being late for the observation. Parenthetically, we would like 
to note that these observations were carried on in the midst of the Gasoline 
Crisis of Spring, 1974. Our observers had to drive long distances and 
getting and having enough gas, as well as arriving for their assignments 
punctually, presented a genuine problem. 

In addition to procedural problems introduced by unexpected class- 
room circumstances and scheduling difficulties attributed to the travel 
situation, there are other types of procedural error which can enter 
the classroom behavior record. Procedural, rather than sampling, error 
occurs when observers fail to make a descriptive record, and use 


" 


inferential statements like "teacher praised the subject," rather than 


' These two records of the 


"teacher said, 'That is a very good answer."' 


226 


202 


classroom occurrence cause encoding ambiguity. Other encoding difficulties 
which are sources of procedural rather than sampling error result, for 
example, from incomplete behavior observations so that the encoder has 

to infer the intent of the observer from the overall content of the 
classroom record. 

Procedural error can be reduced measurably by providing a longer 
training period for observers, by establishing methods for conducting 
paired observation which will produce records of the same time period, by 
encoding observations as soon as possible for the first few observation 
periods conducted upon completion of the training sessions, and by indivi- 
dualized feedback to an observer relative to the objectivity and completeness 


of the observation record. 


The Reliability of APPLE Observations for Single Day Samples of Reading 


and Mathematics Instruction 


The data collected from the dual observations nevertheless provided 
us with tentative evidence about the reliability of the APPLE observations, 
as well as detailed information about the sources of sampling and pro- 
cedureal error to which the system is vulnerable. The results of this 
inquiry enabled us to specify more clearly sources of sampling error and 
a check list of procedural requirements for reliable observations. 

After all of the observations had been encoded and processed into 
the computer files, we retrieved the observation record for the pairs of 
observers and computed the reliability of the pupil events, contexts, 
teacher activities and teacher responses. The non-normal distribution 
of the items in the observation categories precluded the use of parametric 


data analysis procedures. We considered other statistical methods, 


including score transformation, but decided to analyze the data as they 


203 


stood, using a non-parametric method. We selected rank order correlation 
as the statistic which would provide an estimate of the degree to which 

the observers agreed on the frequency of classroom behaviors. We computed 
the rank order correlation for each pair of observers for events, contexts, 
activities and responses. These correlations are reportec in Table 86. 

For each pair of observers, we examined the data to determine which 
source of sampling or procedural error accounted for lowest reliabilities. 
This intensive review of the observer pairs with lowest reliabilities 
produced no evidence for a systematic source of sampling bias or error 
which would uniformly apply to all cases. 

The next step was to evaluate whether low reliabilities were the 
result of sampling rather than procedural error. We first determined 
whether observer pairs who observed on days occurring immediately after 
training had lower reliabilities than observer pairs working later in the 
observation schedule. We found no evidence of an experience effect on the 
observation reliability data. 

We next returned to the data sources and considered four aspects of 
the observations which might be implicated in the low reliabilities. To 
check these four possibilities we: 

1. counted the total number of events for the individual 

observer of each observer pair by subject area to assess 
sampling error due to insufficient numbers of observations 
from one or another observer. 

Zs counted the number of events observed for each target pupil 

to assess observer bias in the frequency with which each 
pupil of the set of target pupils was observed; 


Je compared tallies of individual event names for each observer 


pair to assess observer bias in sampling classroom behavior; 


2286 


ho 
© 
= 


4. inspected source documents to check for congruence between 

observers in the record of target pupil behavior. 

Low reliabilities for five classrooms were directly the result of 
an insufficient sample of behaviors as reflected in low frequency of 
observations. Since low frequencies in observational records did not 
typify the observers who made these observations, we considered the low 
number of observations to be a function of circumstances or the classroom 
setting. Consequently, we did not consider the paired-observation data 
complete enough to estimate reliability. In one classroom, for example, 
one observer failed to observe the afternoon reading group. The number 
of his observations was low and the time in which the paired observations 
were made did not correspond. 

Review of the observation records suggests the following possible 
explanations for the low observed reliabilities which occurred be*.een 
some observers. (Refer also to Table 86, p. 208.) 

c. Slight variations between observers in prose style and/or 
ability to perceive and record important versus trivial information 
produced differences in the pattern of quality ratings (the "+," "0," 
or "-"' accompanying the event), even though the events themselves were 
correctly and reliably recorded; thus the rank order correlations are 
low. This was true of the pupil events in reading for classroom H 
and the pupil events in math for classroom I. 

re Variability between observers in ability or willingness to 
produce precise detailed non-inferential records of ongoing classroom 
interactions precluded accurate encoding and lowered correlations between 


observers even though similar behaviors were recorded. This explanation 


accounts for the low correlations between observers for math teacher 


a 


205 


responses in classroom P, for math teacher activities and responses in 
classroom B, for math pupil events in classroom E, math pupil events 
and activities in classroom K, and for math teacher responses in class- 
room M. 

Js Variability between observers in the amount of time spent in 
a particular location (most likely with a particular group) introduced 
sampling error and produced discrepancies in the frequency with which 
target children were observed and thereby lowered correlations. This 
was a likely explanation for the low between-observer correlations for 
reading pupil events in classrooms T and S. 

4. Variability between observers in their understanding of the 
applicability of certain lexicon terms for items which were encoded at 
the time of observation and thus not reviewed at the time of encoding by 
the project staff (for example, contexts) introduced discrepancies into 
the observation record. This proved to be the case for the reading 
instructional contexts in classroom R and the math instructional con- 
texts in classroom S. 

ae Variability between observers in the total number of events 
documented also influenced reliability. Classrooms J, K, and E for 
reading and G and F for math were dropped from the presentation of data 
because one observer of the pair made too few observations to allow 
adecuate comparisons between observers. This happened, no doubt, because 


of discrepancies between arrival times or times of observations. 


Discussion of Reliability of the APPLE System 


The observation error reflected in the reported reliabilities 
appears to reflect procedural rather than sampling error. Training 


procedures for reliability studies which include standards for beginning 


20 


206 


and ending the observation, and procedures for the order of observation 


of target pupils will reduce procedural error considerably. The data 

from the BTES project supplies important information on the likelihood 

of behaviors appearing during reading and mathematics. In future obser- 
vation training sessions, the most frequently appearing classroom behaviors 
can be discussed and contrasted, and the observers can be trained to 
differentiate among similar behaviors suct as "Engagement," "Work Habits" 


and "Academic Performance." 


Consequently differences in prose style would 
be less consequential in the encoding process. 

Data regarding relative frequency of pupil and teacher behaviors 
provide a basis for determining the number of observations which are 
necessary in order to insure adequate sampling of classroom behavior. 
[There should be enough observations so that the least frequently appearing 
valid observation variable would appear at least once. For example, the 
number of reading observations for the observer pairs varied from a low 
of 15 in one classroom to a high of 123 in another, a result of the extent 
of significant observable teacher and pupil behavior and the length of the 
reading period. For mathematics instruction, the number of observations 
in the reliability sub-study varied from 10 to 47, reflecting the shorter 
periods of time designated for mathematics lessons as well as the lower 
level of pupil activity during these instructional periods. 

The median values reported support the reliability of the APPLE 
observations. On the basis of the examination of the sources of error 
in the record, we conclude that the differences in frequencies of 
classroom behavior reported by the paired observers are biased due to 
procedural factors primarily, and secondarily to sampling error due to 


insufficient amount of observation time. The first source of error 


affects the extent of agreement among observers, but should not affect 
the reliability of the data base. The second source of error also affects 
the extent of agreement among observers and could have an affect on the 


reliability of the data base if we had had only a few teachers in the 


sample. However, the sample of teachers at each grade was sufficiently 


large to insure that the observational data can be considered a reliable 


representation of the classroom behavior in BTES classrooms. 


zo1ziq Suy{duesg 3zo Texznp2002g 
OTIeTIFIUSP] 3noyItTs 
SsuOOISSeTD 103 
suotieTazicg 
CETPaX 


SUOTIPTIII075 


Setq Teanpes01d jo soueptae = xy 
20112 3uyz{tdwes jo a.ueptAe = + 


vi" €v° €s° 99° 


| hag |g 


Ue T PAW 


3UBUIVISZ AZAABSQO Jo xapuT ayndwor o3 
JUsLIVISe ABAAeSGO Jo xepUT aeanduod o3 


09° 
s3° 


ty 


C3" 


9° 


00°T 
eI 
00°T 
¥S0°- 
sy” 


00°T 
¥IT’ 

a 

$3° 


vi" 


: Fg 
Ts* 
00°T 
76° 
cc" 


Sa 
00°T 
¢s* 


<i 
00°T 
cc" 
oc 


ot* 


5 a 


BIep Ywexropyinsuy 
BIep JuoTOyIsNsuy 


¥€T° 
Ls* 
69° 
99° 
8z° 


i 
¢9° 
99° 
4 
£¢° 


"5 ey 
ty’ 
¢7° 
83° 
Quowes.3e 


Quewssrse 
79° 
os° 
Te" 
| 29° 


huseweei8e 
sc° 
09° 
69° 
€s° 


£9° 
SF. 
rs ae 
os* 


TeAIeSqO JO Xaput ayndwo>d 03 eIep yuUsTOTIINsu] 


AT2AIGSGO JO XapuT eyndwod 02 eIep JueToTsynsuy] 


Se 
6€* 
SE 


68° 


2eAIISgO JO xepufT ayndwod o2 eAEp jueToTsynsuyz 


Bs 
€8* 
6T° 
a 


98° 
§9° 
06° 
c6° 


66° 
76° 
76° 
ve; 


cs" 
8° 
6¢° 


es“ 
¥990°= 
’ a I 


oc° 


¢?° 
cc" 
0° 
v2) 


S8TITATIIOV 
Aeudza] 


$3x9 U0) 
Tevoyz onaysuy 


SJUZAq 
trdng 


seasuods 
zayoers 


ay SaTITATIOV 
L zayorey 


$3X2}]uU09 
TeBuoT A Naqsuy 


S}VAAg 


Ttdng 


SITJeUAUIeH 


Sutpesy 


WOOISSETD 


£9f103IIeD Aldd¥ SALA 1203 uawesdasy TPAIESGO JO SUOTIPTAIIOD 22apag yury 


98 9T9FL 


APPENDIX B 


Descriptive Statistics for Observation Variables and Time 
Allocation Measures Stratified by Socioeconomic Status of 
School Population and Geographic Location of School 


211 


The material in Appendix B contains information on measures of 
central tendency and variability of the APPLE observation variables with 
respect to the socioeconomic status of the school population and the 
location of the schools in the BTES project. These data illustrate the 
similarities and differences among pupil and teacher behaviors in class- 
rooms which differ with respect to key demographic factors. This exami- 
nation of the APPLE data relative to stratified groups provides another 
look and a refinement of inferences obtained from the examination of the 


total sample. 


Contrasts Between Prorated Frequencies of Observation Variables for Schools 


Which Differ with Respect to Socioeconomic Status Level 


Pupil events. When the average prorated incidence of observed pupil 


events in reading was examined for schools with differing socioeconomic 
status (SES) levels, there was more observable evidence of "+ Oral Reading" 
in high SES schools (Tables 87 and 88). "+ Number Concepts" was most fre- 
quent in high SES schools for second grade, but the average incidence of 
this event was similar across all schools at fifth grade (Tables 89 and 
90). At second grade, "+ Engagement" events were recorded most frequently 


for the middle SES classrooms in both reading and mathematics instruction. 


Regardless of area of instruction, the frequencies of the negative behavior 


we ” 


events, "- Conduct", "- Inattention", and '"- Talking", when aggregated, 
decreased with increasing SES level at second grade. The SES extremes had 
the highest combined frequencies of these negative events in fifth grade 


classrooms. 


Contexts. The "Independent-Group" and "Teacher-Group" contexts were most 
LONTEXCS Pp Pp Pp 


frequent among all SES levels for second grade reading (Table 91). For 


2395 


06°T Z7°T cz°t L8°Z 9Z° LY°T uoTsueyaiduo) Suppeey 
T?7°€ ct°z o€* cI’? Oc" zS°z TITAS DFuoUd 
wz°s ZE°OT 9°" L£S*2 mec. €9°s Zutpesy Te10 
94° L8°2 S7°Z 19°Z 89°Z 88°z S3TqeH 410M 
6z°T 8¢°T €Z° Z6°€ oe°t.. £°t uot Uaz3eU] 
9¢°8 56°C 6t* €i‘y * €6°T quewesesuq 
LL°T 9g8°T Lg° TE *Z st wz Jonpuo) 


oOOoCc°Oo + + + 


6t°T Ot’T 7ST ae 78 °e Sct. See SUFATeL 
Tv°t oe*t 8t°? so°e 9c" S?7°7 80°9 UofT }USzIeUT 
78°C 06° Ls*T 6£° 98°T a 96° yonpuoyD 
ot’? o00*t 66°C c6°% 6€°OT cst 67°2 SIFQPH 410M 
L0°@ a4: o€* et *¢ co°T ce°2 SuTAVaIUNTOA 


cere ct ae Z7°Z 8E°Z L6°T cs° LS*T uot edpoz zaeg 
88°9 SO°ST 9%°4T Lz°6 ce°st CZPET GEST SB°ST quowesesuq 
9S°Z o9°Z = SE°Z €0°? ¢¢° 9S°Z at wz ZUFAMOT [OZ UOTIIeITG 
"L°E 6o°t: = e279 06°% OL°Z 9€°S oc §6e°sS SS@UsATIUAIIV 
61°” oss. 44 Ov’ 4 O€*€ 19°4 = Ss 86% soUePUIOJIeg IJTWepeoy 


“a’s ueTPeW 4 “a's UBTPEOWN X ‘a°’s UbTPON x S4YUsAq 


OT=N 9T=N ST=N 
YU3TH-?®TPPIW 2°43TH STPPEW ®LPPTW STPPTH 1eM07]~M07 


Z apeiag - Butpeay - sas 4q peTtsF3ejIs 
SUOOISSET) SILA UT PeArasqo SqUusAq Jo adUueppToUyT ps e10id aBeiraay 


£8 9T9FL 


"7° 40° L7°Z T° ZT S°Z 67° uofsueysiduoy Butperay 
Z6° 4T° L9°Z 84° co°T IT°€ z?° TIFAS DFuoyg 
97°4 €c*e 6S°Z 0+°* 66°T OL°€ O€°T Sutpeey Te10 
39°C 86°T 76°€ Ts. 2¢ 00°9 06°Z SITQPH 410M 
90°6 69° T7°Z os" 9S°T cs’e ¢9° uot Ua 3eUT 
88°T 9s° ZT°S c6" 87°€ €y't 4 ay quewesesuq 
Z7°Z OT’T C6°Z 61° 97°T 79°72 3 ee 4 Jonpuog 
91°Z €S°Y 89°Z 61° zs*T O€ "+ cv7°€ BUTATEL 
€L°S 89°€ 72°47 .?. 2¢°9 90°% 8° + uoyjuaz4eU] 
Lis z8° te 4 0+" CZ°T Z7°Z 87° ONpuoD 
HL°E ce°z "9°9 OS*?  68°9 cT°S 7 i. S3TQeH 410M 


oooo} + + + 


87°C cs* Te S$?" T€*Z 87°Z Sc" Zufisaqunqo, 
Ot *6 sf* €2°2 80° 88° 8S°T 7 uof zedpop4seg 
Ss°4vT OT*8z 8I°ST S6°T2 9€°%2 LS*ST ST°%Z Jusewe3e3uq 
66°S 9t° 8c °E $6" 97°72 69°72 08° BUFMOTTOYZ UOTIIeITG 
62°S es*? ze °8 0z°S 6S°9 Sa A S0°Y SSoUsATIUIIIV 
99°9 €O°e TO0°? Oz*T cere tr’<t 69°72 sOUBUIOJIag IWepeoy 


“a°s ueTpeN ¥ ‘aq°s ueTpey x “a's ueTpey X S]usAq 


CT=N SI=N IZ=N 
U3TH-PTPPIN 29UuSTH PTPPIW PTPPTK 9TPPIW 12M07-M07] 


¢ epeip - suppeey - sas Aq patsr3ezqs 
SWOOISSET) SHLY UF PeAIeSqgO SJUsAY JO aouaepT OUT pa zerzolrag asBerzaay 


88 9T9PL 


S8°T 
$2°2 
00°72 
06°T 
3 
it” 
S8°z 


00°72 
OT’e 
L£Z° 

o£ °8 
OL°T 


a ty 
st °or 
¢s° 
OL°t 
tc" 


TZ° 


TS° 
St: a 6 
tc" 
00°9 
€6° 


o€° 
06°2T 
ce° 
sv°9 
3 iy 


L2°2 sO°T 
cY7"s 80°7 
eo cr sz*t 
c8°? 76° 
ct'9 T 
96°T Os° 
T9°Z 0) Si 


86°9 07°T 
07°? SZ°e 
86°C 02° 
OO°¢T €9°9 
T8*T t9° 


co°C os° 
88°OT 89°2 
8s°9 ot 
87°9 Ot *T 
02° OT’ 


sjdasu09 tequny 
sjdaou09 tzequny 
sjzdeou0D rzequny 
SIFQPH 410M 

uot .UeIIeU] 
Quewsesesuq 
qonpuoy7 


BuTATeL 

uot 3UeIIeUL 
Jonpuo7 
SIFQPH 410M 
ButirsequNTo,A 


uot aedyzoz Aaeg 
qusewesesuq 

BUTMOTTOY uoTIe1TG 
SSUsATIUSIIY 
QIUPMAOJI9g DJfwapedy 


"a°s UeTpayN 
OT=N 
YUSTH-2®TPPIW 224sTH 


UPT Pen 
9T=N 
2TPPEN PIPPIN 


“a°S uUeTpEN 
ST oN 
PTPPIW 1eAo']-mMo'] 


$USAq 


~ 


< 


epeiy — sotTiemeyzeW - Ssqs Aq patst3eszqs 
SWOOASSPTD SALA UF peAresqo SjueAq Jo aouepyzoul de eI01Ig a8eaaay 


68 919PFL 


L6° 6Z°T 78°72 a 97°Z 78° sjdasu09 iequny 
76° tes 7y°t 9€° €”°Z 9Z° sjdeou09j 1zequny 
08*Z 62°6 9T°6 07°Z 90°6 8T°s8 Sjdaou0) i1equny 
BE°Z LS*t G7°6 ¢6° €s°s €0° SIFQPH 410M 
Ly° cut T8°Z SS c7°Z ¢38° uot 3Us33eUT 
07° cit 78°T T9° Se 60° quowe3esuq 
0S* 66° €L*T 92° tae ¥T°T Jonpuog 


5 ae 4 cyt 7¢°8 cs°T 8E°S 78° 3UTATeL 
Se te ae S0°? SO°e t9°9 09°S uot UszzeUT 
€O°T of Mae 3 80°C 60° S0°2 $2 Jonpuoy) 
€l*4 cgt’s f6°S sO0°” OS*S €s°9 SIFQPH 410M 
SO°T t<"¢ 4 Ge 5 a a. ce° SupirsaquNTo, 


69° 6€°T 78°T Gy 99°72 ¥T° uot jedypoqtqaeg 
O€*St €%7°OZ TS°ST c7° YT 18°41 S8°6I quowasesuq 
sh A past 80° fe, hg L0°Z 6S" BUTMOTTOY uot oe1TG 
08°S B8°Z cZ* Or OS°*E€ 6S°S 62°72 SSOUZATIUIIIV 
7c 4 i 3 te %T° L9° 3 QOUPWAOJI9g DJTWaproy 


“U's UeTpeN x ‘G's UeTpey "a's ueTpay SJUsAg 


€T=N ST=N 1? =N 
Y3TH-2®TPPTW 194u3TH STPPIW PIPPIN 2TPPIW 1JaMo07-M07 


G 9peig — sop emeyIeW —- Sys Aq patsFaezqas 
SWOOISSET) SALG UF PpeAresqg SquaAy JO aduUapyoUT pe er0Ig eBeaaay 


06 9T9PL 


$6°2% $6°0€ OT°LZ dnoiy 1zsyoeay 
ss°z zZ* Cl*4 SSBTD 1syoeay 
08° 87° 9T° TENPTATpu] Juepuadapuy 
06°92 SO*EeE 96°72 dnoij juepuedepuy 
S9°? 0v* ¢9°Z SSE) Juepuedeapuy 
yy £6° LZ°Z dnoiy arnpy 


UPT Pay ue T Pay X ueT Pay X $3x9 U0) 
OT=N 9T=N 4 CT=N oe 
USTH-2®TPPIW STPPIN ®TPPTW PTPPEW 19M07-M07 


€ @PPAD - Suypesay - sys Aq PeFFJTIPAIS 
SWOOISSET) SA1q UT pearasqg $3xX9]U0D Jo aouapTouy Pe 3PloIg a8ersay 


T6 9TqQe] 


' instruction was most 


fifth grade reading (Table 92), "Independent-Class' 
common in the high SES schools, while "Independent-Group" contexts were more 
frequently reported for low and middle SES classrooms. Instruction of the 
total class, either in teacher-conducted or independent work sessions was 
observed more frequently in fifth grade high SES classrooms. Classroom 


work independent of teacher direction increased with grade level for all 


SES groups. 


'Teacher-Class," "Independent-Group," and "Independent-Class" instruction 
generally predominated in mathematics lessons (Tables 93 and 94). "Teacher- 
Group" contexts appeared more frequently at the middle than at low or high 

SES schools. Individualized instruction, while relatively rare overall, 
occurred most frequently in second grade classrooms of middle SES schools. 
There was relatively little "Adult-Group" instruction in mathematics except 

in low SES second grade classrooms. In general, the differing frequencies 

of observed instructional context with respect to grade level and SES 


probably does reflect real differences in instructional approach in these 


schools. 


Teacher activities. "Working With" was the most frequently occurring 


teacher activity across all SES, grade, and instructional levels. However, 
teachers in the middle SES classrooms were observed more frequently than 
those in low or high SES classrooms "Working With" groups or individuals 
reading and mathematics at second grade (Tables 95 and 97). In fifth 
grade, "Working With" was most frequently observed in low SES classrooms 

in reading and in high SES classrooms in mathematics (Tables 96 and 98). 
"Circulating" and "Asking" were common teacher activities during reading 
instruction in low SES classrooms. "Circulating" also occurred with 


considerable frequency in the middle SES classes, particularly in fifth 


S6°S Se°07d cc ct: Bisse dnoig i1ayorey 
cT°Z2T O€ °T €9°% 6£°S8 SSETD Asyoea] 
a 77° Sc" ag 4 TENPTATpuy Jusepusdepuy 
06°9T cs°de €9°lE O0O'Or dnoiy juepusedepuy 
c? Sz ? 08°Z 8Z° Z9°ZT SSE) JuUepusdepuy 

8) et” €€°T 19°Z dnoiy 3 [nNpy 


ueT pep : > UeTpeEW ueTPoW X S}x9 ]uU0y 


tT=N St=N IZ=N : 
iSTH-PTPPTW 1943 STPPEW PTPPEN SLPPEN 29M0'1-M0 7] 


G @peag - Surpeay - sas Aq patjpaeaas 
swooisseT) SALLY PpeArTesqQ S$ yxequoy) jo aouapTouy, payerzoig ateiaaay 


C6 9T9PL 


LZz° 97°92 St°Or O¢ te cz°y dnoiy 129yoRee] 
OL*ES tcc Gz7°St 60°22 96°L SSE[) AeyoRe] 
€9° 72°ST 88° 87°9 st* [eNpfATpu] uepuedepuy 
09° 6T TL°61 cL°tt? 16°C? O08 "ST dnoig juepuedepuy 
$7" wrtt. 8i*4: 6 Sh cs‘z SSP) Juepuedepuy 
i 79° ee 66°T z9°T dnoay 3[npy 


Ue TPS X ‘a's UebTPOW xX 


OT=N 9T=N ST=N 
U3TH-PTPPIW 42°U3TH STPPIW PTPPIW ° PTPPTW 19M07-M0'] 


Z apeag — sotjewayyeW - Sas Aq patstT3eszqs 
SUOOASSET) SALA UT Padrasqg S3xeqUOD Jo aoUapfFoUT peIies0id aseiaay 


€6 PTIPL 


79°8T 90°72 €s°tt ZO°EZ zs°t 90°ST S7°st 8I°T T2°2T dnoig 12yore] 


w6°Se  OCTE GLEE ts Wet EE 99°8Z SL°ET 726°EZ SSPTD IeYyoRe] 
86° €z" SY" 0 0 0 gc°9 €T° 61°Z TENPTATpu] Juepuedepuy <} 
oe°se:= 6 tek CGE EE Tv°€Z 4360 S9°LT) Soo” 0Z 9Z°9Z = OTST) *4Z dnoig uepuedepuy _i 
yS°OE SO°SE L9°%E oe. eee, pt Me pe we hs ae SSP[) JUepuedepuy] a 
0 0 0 0 0 0 L7°L €g* 6S °*T dnoiayj 3[npy 
‘a's UueTpeW x ‘a's uetpeH x ‘a's ueTpen x $}x9qU05 
€I=N 8t=iK IZ=N 
YSTH-®TPPIW 12°43TH 2TPPIWN PIPPIN 2TPPTW 1eM07]-A07} 


¢ epeag — siTaeweyIeW - Sys Aq peTyItIezIS 
SWOOISSET) SFG UF peAIasqg S3xaqUOD JO aoUepPToOU] pe eloIg sBe12aay 


i) 
N 
N 


96 9T9IPL 


88°22 OT°9” O8°TY GZ2°T9 )3=6SS°Z¢ €£°6Z 08 °€ YIM SUTyI0M 
18° LT’ 9S° rs ZO*T €Z7°Z 60° SutstaAiedns 
€0°2 os° 67°T 80° TS‘T rs oer s* zemsuy 9 uoTISeNnd 
68°47 ¢0° 61°S €%° L6° 6Z°€ 09° ZuyTue Ist] 


9 
g9°e Sz*Z 6 60°E €7° TY°T $9°4 89° BuTATD) uot onaAsu] 


61°Z 07° 1z°T €6° 97°S gc°s 8E°T SutdT eq 
76° oc’ L* EE” cs* 6S" 80° sututetdxy 
98°T 07° we" % IT° + cs°Z €Z° uoTssnost( 
0v'T a Be" Ts° 9Z°€ ie ee 2 Ge Sup Ie[NIATD 
ess og ie gt" cc°z 68°Z 60° Sup yoeyD 


¢9° 8z° 0** 0 79°OT tt paeog 3y 
$9° ¢T° O€* 0 TZ°Z ro y8eq 3V 
€B8°s ic. we TS°s Ty°Zt 396 Ov"E suTysy 
19° L£0° ey €e°T 19° 90° Buy l1emMsuy 
G74 ¢6°Z 3 Ge 66°72 7S" Gz°T Suyzypuesig Ofuepesy 


“a°sS UeTpEn X UBTPOWN a “a°S UeTPEN X SOTIFATIOV 
ee i ae: sek - ST =N ai 


USTH-®TPPTW 2°4STH STPPIN 2TPPIW STPPEW 12M0']-M07 


Z epeig - Suppesy - sqs 
Aq peTst3esys swooisse[) Sqld 
UF PeAIASGO SEFITAPIOW AeyoIee] Jo aduapyou]y pe weiorg a8eisay 


$6 ?T9PL 


08° 6T 89°9Z OZ°0E YITM SUTYI0M 
Ss. Ste 8S°6 9° 8utTstTAiedns 
6Z7°T 66° 68°6 Cy° Zemsuy Y UOTISEeNd 
69° 09° 78°T 97° SuptueIsTyT 
9¢° c9°e OS *+ cs°T BUTATD uot IONAAsSU] 


€8°Z Sz° 90°8 82°T 3utd{ eq 
a 4 ae 4 cT° supuptetdxg 
¢?* -. 90°6 68° uo}fssnostg 
06° 92° 7E°6 c6° BuT3e[NI1TD 
OS*Z c6° ord 3% Buy yIeuUD 


cT° 60° 97°Z OT* pieog IV 
69° 67° £8°9 8T° Seq IV 
€o°T GZ°Z £Z7°S Bye 3uTysy 
87° 7<° Il’4t tZ* ZutTlaasuy 
69° + %O°E ¢c° ZutzyTues1ig Dwepeoy 


ue T poy ue TPeaW x ‘a's uetTpey S8TITATIYV 
€I =N 8T = N TZ =N 
USTH-®TPPIW 1943 TH STPPIW PTPPIW STPPTIW 1eM07-M07] 


4 2peig - Buptpeey - sys 
Aq petTjsT3ei3as swooisse[y) sgqig 
UF PPALTISGO SETITATs.y A9yoea]l JO SQUSPPFOU] pe zeiocig aBersay 


96 9T9PL 


€€°TZ 99°12 OT°OE 71°92 T° Te O€ *8T YIM BuTyxI0M 
98°9 67° cet G2°% 97° Be’ BuystAredns 
19 a a O€°T OS* 979°T cT° 1emsuy 9. UOTISeNdH 

0 0 ce° 60° 90° SuptueIstyT 
9€°2 40°Z 68°47 9s*€ €<s° BUTATD) uot zonNAAsuT 


TL°IT S0°S OZ" sutdteyq 
98°72 LS° c3°T ° Buyutetdxy 
Oc *T Sa 17° zS* uo} ssnostqg 
9S°L OT*Z z7T°*9 L8°eT 09°T Sup e[Ns1yzo 
€8°s8 OL°€T S6°OT T7°ST 3 ay SuTyIeyN9 


gcs°s ¢6° €S°% OO°Er = 1°. eee 16° paeog iy 
O€*T tz" T° gs°€ 84° 68° 0 48eq IV 
SI's cots: we 16°? c's: Se OL" Sut 4Sy 
0° 80° 4T° 09°6 .s:: ot Supt ltemsuy 
L£y°T OZ° 9T°T "S°% c¢° HE°7Z iz Zuyzpuesig Iwepesy 


“a°S uUeTpeW xX ‘a°sS uUeTpeW x Ue TPOW X SOFIFATIOV 


OT = N 9T = N CIT 2N 
Y3TH-PTPPIW 1943TH 2TPPIW @TPPTW 9TPPEW 12M07-M07 


Z @peig - sot JeweyIeW - Sys 


Aq petjst3eaqs swooisselt) sqlgq 
UF PPATBSGO SSETIFATIOV AVYIPa] JO BdUapToUy paqeio1g aB8eraAy 


£6 ?T9PL 


oS"ie°  SG*S1 Ci 8e ce°iz S€°*ttl 90°tZ O6°ST O62 SE°EZ YIFM Buyyx10M 
06°Z Sg 94°T § & 0L° E°T ott. oe" Te€*+ SutsfAiedns 
86°9 62° 00°€ 16° 8Z° 06° cc’s €S° T9°T Jemsuy 9 UCT Send 
61°T gT° ¢r* €8° OT* 61° 0 0 0 ZupzUus sty] 
oss! fy" 90°S es 6Z° t2°T L6°E Stee OSE ZuTATD uot onNAIsuy 
L6°L €9°L 69°L i a eee = ces 1O°OE:. -OO°X..- O2°2 sutdiTey 
67°6 Os teers cast 2" Lo°s TO"# 8l° 77 °Z Suyutetdxg 
OL" 9T° 6Z° IT°Z 97° 96° 97 °Z 0Z° 6L° uofTssnostq 
99°8 ere... 26°9 L6‘°L €8° IS’€ cost coe tet ZuTIeTNIIT) 
67°IT 89° OT°OT erst. «ZH %7°9 L€°OT 89° Z70°9 Suzy IeyY9 
68°Z gT* 4 ek | 61T°E 87° 9Z°T 9Z°€ si ay 61°Z pieog IV 
69°OT Th Gite “tak Ct: wes 66" ge 3 mee & 2, C6°L 48eq IV (o@) 
GL°L Os° Sere 8zZ°S 68° 6S°E Ty°Z ¢8° 9Z7°S 3uTyAsy = 
€6°6 Ov" 70° oe’ ht. ..19° es "7° La & 1°T Zufvismsuy fat 
3 ee 18° 1S°Z g9°E n° 8L°T OS'T ¢¢* 60°T Zuyzfuesig I~wapeoy 

‘a's uUeTpeW x ‘a’°S uUeTpaW x ‘a°S uPTpey - SETIFATIOV 

cI =N 8I = N IZ=N 
Y8TH-PTPPIW 1943TH 2TPPIW PTPPIWN 2TPPTK 1e@M07]-m07} 


¢ epein - sop IeweyAeW - sys 


Aq petjstaeajys swmooissey[) sald 
UF PeATISGO SAFIFATIOY AJeyoea] JO aouepyfouy payezorag aBeiaay 


224 


86 9TIPL 


grade. "Checking" appeared frequently only for the high SES groups. The 
"At Desk'"' activity was more frequent generaily in the fifth grade than 
second grade, and most frequent tor high SES groups during reading. 

In mathematics instruction, "Circulating" was common at all levels 
except for the middle SES fifth grade classes. At second grade level, 
"Checking" student work was frequent for middle and high SES groups, but 
was observed with very low frequency for the low SES classes. Both 
"Checking" and "Helping" were frequent across SES levels at fifth grade, 
and "At Desk" was also frequent for the low SES classrooms. 


Teacher responses. Teacher responses were observed to vary little 


between second and fifth grade classrooms and between reading and mathe- 
matics. In the examination of possible differences in teacher responses 


with respect to SES level of schools, the data presented in Tables 99 


through 102 are of interest. For second grade reading, "Positive Feedback" 


and "Praise" were at about the same level across all SES groups. In reading 
instruction at the fifth grade, "Positive Feedback" and "Praise" were 

higher at the high SES level than for either the middle or low SES groups. 
"Negative Feedback" in reading, while occurring with rare frequency, 
occurred most in the middle SES classes at both second and fifth grade. 
"Disciplining" responses were most frequent for high SES reading instruc- 
tion at both grade levels, while "Teacher Help" was more characteristic of 
the tow SES classes, particularly in second grade. 

"Positive Feedback" was observed to occur least frequently in the 
second grade low SES mathematics lessons. The frequency of "Positive 
Feedback," "Praise" and "Negative Feedback" was consistently higher in the 
high SES groups at this grade level. In fifth grade mathematics instruction, 


middle SES had the lowest frequency of either positive or negative feedback. 


249 


08°2 ot: wy - 86°T oo°c 80°% 02°? os*€ L£o°4 Sut IIeATpey 
¥9°T 06° 97°T 78°T $7" ott Of °2 he ee «Re Sut zpusosey 
6£ °72 06°2 t9'e 99°72 Of °? 67°72 ss°¥ 82° 5 ae 4 Zuf;UoT Sandy 
10°? sot 6 We 68°Z 0s* €0°2 c7°? IT’€ Lg°e osTeidg 
OL*t S9°Z t8°9 07°9 o's... eS T6°9 oo: Ge WIRQpeeT VATFITSOd 
61°61 cs*tS OL°87 78°IT 00°99 6€°99 Tv°<4t §686°TL 19°99 SuON 
sO’ 8z° gs° 96°T LZ° 89° 3 80° 9T° yoRgpeey sATIeZeN 


v€°T 06° 67°T Z6°T O€* 60°T 18°Z 97° €”°T ug SaAoK 
S6°Z —t a2 T€*Y 8¢7° €0°Z is "7° LS*T Suyiousy] 
L8°T cet. ee 9S°T 79°T "S°2 ce"z . $0°C djeH eyes 
L6°Z 00°Z g0°E 6€°E €L°T cc°€ as 6I°T SuypuT{dyzostq 
zL°S S9°y §6LE°9 6L°€ 9f°4 LT°€ SZ° ST*z Suy.onaysuy 


‘a's uetTpey b ‘a°S uetTpeay P a "a°S ueTpeW xX sasuodsay 


OT © N 9T = N ST = N 
USTH-®TPPIW 2043TH PLPPIN 2TPPFEW STPPEW 129M0']-M0'] 


Z epeag - BSuypeeay - sas 
Aq petsfT3ezyg swooisse[) sald 
UF PpaAtesqg Sasuodsay AaYydea] JO a.UapToU, pe zei01’g aeBeRAaAy 


66 9T9PFL 


gt*?7 
672°C 
€8°C 
ZB°E 
ce*tt 
z78°et 
{i> 


76° 

60°7 
Ot °C 
L£9°T 
L6°¢ 


OL*? 
G8°7¢ 
6S° 
os*T 
cs°*” 
€9°79 
ot’ 


"T° 
0” ° 
cz‘ 
os*T 
gT’e 


9S°9 oe°e: . e't 947°? cyt 
ti°t cot . ARS 947°? €S° 
Te*t i" 09° 08 *T os 
90°t i 6 °1 06°2 00°*T 
TS°? os. 4% Go°*s gs°? 
oz*tz 96°99 60°29 o€°02 €6°69 
BI’? 70° 99° ce" €0° 


10°? cs° Lz*t T7°T a 
L97°T i 18° Oz*t 06°T 
cs*2 0S* TL*T 69°C 88° 
cs° 60° 97° €Z°?C 90° 
97°L c6°t 5? ct’d ey 


But IIeATpey 

But zpusoI2y 
ZupuoT 3senh 
asteidg 

yorqpeey eAFITSOd 
QuUON 

yoeqpeced SATILBON 


ug seAoW 

Zuytjous] 
djey r9yoeeL 
SuyufTdt. std 
But zonaq4su] 


“a's 


ue T pen 
eT =N 


u8TH-2TPPTN 129u3TH 


“a's UveTPen X “a's UeTPeH 


ST = N TZ = N 
2TPPIW PIPPIN 2TPPTK 19M07T-MO'] 


sesuodssy 


c epeag - Buppeed - SAS 
kq patyFaez34s gwooisse{) SALd 
uy peAiesqo sasuodsey szeyore] Jo aouappouy pe 3e10id aZelsaAy 


OOT eT9PL 


02° C6°T Lis €e°s 88° 71°€ Buy elt pey 
os* O¢€* 89°T ¢6°% oo°t. ¢9°¢ ZuTZFUsOIey 
$s” 9T* 99°7Z 68°T c+" €0°T SuTUOT IsSeNt) 
ss°* 4¢° 7 t L9°4 €¢° T8°Z estelig 
Gz°zI Oy°s <st°9 60°% OZ’ wee YOegpeey eATITSOg 
ce°9s 66°69 68°29 Tv’TZ 88°69 19°99 auOoN 
97° 70° 80° OL" 60° Ag yoeqpedg eat esen 


° L0° 4T° 90°T ea Ov" ug SaAoK 
c8°e OL" 9€°Z 68°Z cT° 9Z°T Sutiousy 
cO°e oe «(tt *S L6°Z ¢8° STt°z djay ieyorsy 
Os* es ais LO’E €+° ce*t supuTTdpostq 
O€°€ OL°€ 9€°S C6°Z €s° c6‘T Sut JoONAsSU] 


S ueTpey ue T POW x ‘a’°S ueTpey x sesuodsay 


OI =N ST =N 9I = N st 
USTH-2®TPPIW 19U3TH 2TPPIN PTPPTW SIPPTW 29M0]-M07 


Z aperyg - sot eweuIeW - SAS 


Aq petsfy3ezaqysg swooisse{) sald 
UT paeAresqg sasuodsay Aayoeay JO aduapypoUy, pa zei0ig aseiaay 


TOT ?T9PL 


96°72 1S°t << SVE 6S°Z 9¢° LL°T 86°T o6*t ett But IIaAF psy 
88°e 67h: 38S of lag | OT°Z 00°% cc*s ort. 46% Buytzpusors2y 
a ST’ 6z° 8° 61° €° ZL°T Gz° Z6° BupuoT ysenhH 
Ly°Z oct eet 66° 97° os* 78°72 9¢° z9°T esteig 
T2°sS OS*y 60°S €S*4 i 7S °Z 69°4 st°z 60° yoeqpsej eATITSOg 
89°9T ST°69 €0°S9 9€°92 O€°OL 10°79 00°6T T9°%L Z20°ZL aUON 
gs‘T 18° 1¢"T ty €0° ¢0" OL" 80° i yoeqpeaey eat eson 
0Z7°T 60° 17° G7°T 9T* 62° 9 gT* z9° ug SeAoK 
6€°% 69° 6€°Z €7°% >t. Bs 27°” §=68°T 78°72 Buzsousy] 
67°" os*zZ. <£0°9 €£°€ 09° 90°Z Z1°€ 89° ae 4 d[ay teyorey 
gI°€ cs ZS°T gs‘T cc’ 68° gc‘T 8T° 16° SuyutTdypostgq 
8I°€ et Tes 60°S 08°z 00°4 4 pe st: es Sut .oOn1AsUT 
‘a’s ueTpeEN X ‘a°s uetTpen X "a°s ueTpeW X Sasuodseay 
ci ee 81 = N $4 cS pe 
UZTH-®TPPIW 14°43I1H PIPPIN PTPPTW 2TPPTW 129M0'1-M07] 


G epeay - soTJeweYyIeW - SAS 


Aq petsytaeizyg swooirsseT[) Sald 
UT PaArasqg sasuodsay AayIPal jO adUapTOUT pa zetoig a8e1aAy 


ZOT ®T9PL 


3 
Fe) 


The frequency of "Positive Feedback" and "Praise" in the low SES classes 


was exceeded only slightly by that of the high SES groups. In mathe- 


matics, "Disciplining" was observed more frequently in the high rather 

than middle or low SES classrooms. While "Teacher Help" and moderate 
levels of feedback to pupils are present in the low SES hubs , the greatest 
amount of "Positive Feedback" and "Praise" are associated with the high 


SES schools. 


Contrasts Between Prorated Frequencies of Observation Variables for Urban, 


Suburban and Rural Schools 


Pupil events. When the average prorated frequencies of pupil events 


were computed for the BTES classrooms according to whether they were 
located in urban, suburban or rural areas, the results indicated little 
difference among the schools in pupil events in reading at second and 
fifth grade (Tables 103 and 104). In mathematics, there were more marked 
differences in the frequency of different types of observed pupil behavior. 
For example, second grade pupils in rural schools (Table 105) were observed 
least frequently manifesting "+ Engagement" behavior and observed most in 
"+ Work Habits,” possibly reflecting differences in instructional approaches 
of the teachers with respect to requirements for completing mathematics 
assignments. There was a much higher incidence of "+ Number Concepts" in 
the rural second grade classrooms. When the incidence of all of the 
negative behavior events ("- Conduct,” "- Inattention" and "- Talking") 
were combined, the frequency was considerably lower in second grade classrooms 
located in urban areas. 

The incidence of types of pupil behavior in fifth grade mathematics 


(Table 106) was fairly similar across all behaviors and school locations 


si 06° 3 06° uotTsueyeidwuog Buypeey 
c9°* yt'T 09° co'T TTFAS DFUOU, 
Gc"? ce°9 ce°s ¢9°9 ButTpesy Te10 
Ov" T 00°E €0°? LS°€ satqeyH 410M 
ZTE °? 00°*T 07 °T ae uoTjue eu] 
Si 09° 9s° 60° quows3esuy 
06°T 09° Le ag c0°? qonpuo) 


oooco + + + 


Yaa) ee tah ge UR A BUTATPL 


BL°S GZ°S ty7*t T6°E€ uoytjuszIeUy 
¢l£°C G7°T 09° 96°T zonpuo) 
L9°t c8°+ 6L°4 L£9°9 satqeyH 410M 
96°C $O°T 8S* Se BuTIAsaIUNTOA 


Gz c6°T 66°72 c7°? TO°€ uot yedpop aed 
cL°Tt Oc °6T 9S°IT O7°9T YE°ST quows3esuy 
9l°T ¢l°Z ¢6°2 cT‘T 07°? BSUTMOTTOY UOT I9I1TG 
‘<c*s 06°S 9T*t €6°T €8°Z SSSUBATIUIIIYV 
cv7°e Ot *? 87°C os. ee 8 aoUeUIOJIeg D_WapPoy 


“ad°S UeTPEW ‘a’sS UeTPEW X SJUdAq 
9=N €T=N 2 
Teany ueqanqgns 


Z epeag - Buppeay - uofz RIO] Aq patyT 3ejzys 
SUOOASSE[) UT paAtIasqg SjUaAy Jo sdUepFoOUT pe zesOId aBersaAy 


€OT 9T9PL 


aad : €9° uoTsusyeiduog BuTpeey 
ee? o¢* 4 zS° TTFAS I2FUOUd 
8z° OL°T 06°Z ZuTpeey [e410 
€7°T OT’ €6°T SITQPH 4A0M 
cc*T O2°T 97° uot jUuazIeUl] 
8S* 0S‘*z 4T° quowese 3uy 
06° s7°T ce‘ JOnNpuoy 


Be" 09°4 88°T BUTATeL 
OT°S OZ°E T0°4 uot }Uue34eU] 
i T€° O€° JONpuoD 
S9° C6°E GZ°€ satqeyH 4104 
cc” 8T° 06° Buy isaqunto, 


9 cT° Pt & uot edypot3zaeg 
G2°SZ €6°%72 88°7Z Juowesesuy 
8e° CZ" €9°T SUTMOTTOY uot de1TG 
8t° ¢9°t ¢¢°9 SSOUBATIAUSIIY 
OS* O7°T 8B°E QoUeWIOJI9g DTWepeoy 


ue T poW ue T pay ueT POW SJUaAq 
YT=N 7T=N Sc=N 
Teany ueqingns ueqin 


¢ apeiy - Buppeay - uoz yeooT Aq patsT3eajyas 


a 
- “ 


SWOOISSET) UF PeATeSqY SJUGAT JO JdUep IU] pazetorg asBeiraay 


VOT 9T9PL 


~ 
38) 
N 


19°Z crt es Ly°Z ez°rl 640s L£8°L OT ge ae 4 de sqzdaou09 1t9qunN 0 
€9°L "z° oes sc*y <2 . 6Cy L6°% 1° BE sjzdaou09 Jequny - 
sa. we. eee °st «6 CEET NESE cL°6 Gi°L 9S°OT sjdeouo0g tequnyn + 
90°S cO°y Ov°Y Te€*4 69°Z  s8Br°e 6L°€ €L° 8f°Z SITQPH 410M 0 
6I'T gs* LL° zs*T = 61° 97°S €€° 9€°Z uoTjue I IeU] OC 
Z6°T $s° Le‘t 9€°4 i c9°T 68°72 i €9°T Juowesesuq Q 
09° 8z° gt" 98°Z €9° Z70°Z L9°Z cy" OL°T yONpuoD OQ 
SE°Z ort. 36° 76°S 0S*Z 06°% 0”°4 %¢° 0z°Z SUTATeL - 
68°8 oo°€ L2°9 T8°€ cy°y €L*y c9°4 ¢9° ISs*€ uofjueqIeUy - 
79°Z ont: $t° Lo°T $z° OL* €9°Z st* iz*t yoOnpuo) - 
1z°8 O€*IT LO*tT OT°IT s?°e vS°OI L9°4 ty A <a SITQeH YI0M + 
68°Z =. <¢re 70°" L6° gc*z cl°Z 2 78°T SufFAsaquNTOA + 
61T°T cs” ei O° Sz° 61°Z 09°Z Ly* 06°Z uof zedpop aed + 
97° 9 ss°6  0°t LO°L OZ°ET 99°ET 60°st * 06°9 - WOrer quowesesuq + 
96° ¢s° rz" O°” a & T#°€ LT’S te SL°T BUTMOTTOJ UOTIIIATC + 
ct“ oes: «= Se°¢ "6° cs C65 89°8 co: 2's SS9UBATIUIIIV + 
9) 0 0 T°? 89° €7°Z 8Z" I€0° 650° aQueUIOJIVg DTWepPRSy + 
"a°S ueTpen xX "a's ue TPEW X "qa’°sS UPTPEW X SUDA 
Q=N s €T=N ir Z7Z=N fi 
Teang ueqanqgns ueqif} 


Z apeay - sofiemayyeW -— uozzZeD07T Aq patsy Iejrs 


SWOOASSETD) UT PaAtIsqO SJUeAG Jo eodUapPFoOUT ps3es1OAd aZeiraay 


SOT 9T9PL 


te 


cee c9o°T tz” 99°T te°2 rh Ss Sqydeou0Dg requny 
99°% LS GE: 99°T 9S°Z A Si Sjzde2u0) requny 
66°Z 07°9 ¢8°s 77°83 Le*6 €9°OT S3daou0) iequny 
¥E°9 cs*e $9°Z TS°S 97°9 eee S3ITQeH 410M 
88°Z $6° cl* €e°e cy*Z ce* uot Us 3 3eUT 
98°T zS* +a oY 9Z°E 9T° Juowssesuq 
€t°Z 9€° ce" 86° 70°E€ 2 ay sonpuoy 


Lé°l 06°T 7°72 67°S OZ*t c9°T B3UTATEL 
vc°S Ot’s cc*e 61T°9 Tt’y csT’°€ uot Us} 3eUT 
O°? a 7° Gc°? €0°2 9T° Jonpuo) 
ye °9 s0°9 soe L6°E €s°s 99° SIFQPH 410M 
cs°T 8z* i 90°T Gl°2 cz*2 ZupilsequNTo, 


O£°? yh 82°T es 8s* 7S°Z 0Z* uot zedypoT eg 
cZ°9T 09°9T €0°LT O8°ZT TE*6T TS*TT 08° 9T qUuowssesuy 
9Z°E 67° 69°Z 97° 76° OT°E €9° SUFMOTTOY uot IIeITG 
€Z°Oor 07°Z L8° 9Z° ot og | €7°s SSSUZATIUSIIY 
08° 2 8s° = ta 9I*T 9T* PIUBUIOJIeg DJWaepeRoy 


“ad°S = UPTpaK “ad*sS UeTpEN x “a°sS uUeTpeW SJUZAq 


7T=N YI=N Sc=N 
Teanyg uegaingns ueqin 


S epezg — SoFIeMayIe_ — uoTIeDOT Aq paTsTIweIAIS 
SWOOISSPT) UF PeAIEsqO SJUeAZ JO adUapPToUT pe ei0lrg aBeaaay 


90T 9T9FL 


with some exceptions. "+ Attentiveness" and pupil events which were 
evidence of "+ Number Concepts" were highest in the urban classrooms. 
However, when all of the number concept events were combined, there were 
frequent occurrences of behaviors associated with evidence of arithmetical 
concepts, positive, negative and neutral, in the rural classrooms. As in 
second grade mathematics classes, negative pupil behaviors were least 
frequent, on the whole, in the fifth grade urban classes. 

Contexts. "Teacher-Group" contexts were the most common for reading 
instruction in all locations, followed by "Independent-Group" contexts. 
There were greater frequencies of pupil behavior in the 'Independent-Indi- 
vidual" contexts in the urban classrooms at second grade (Table 107). 
Instruction in groups by an adult other than the teacher was most fre- 
quent, though relatively rare overall, in the suburban second grade 
reading program. 

"Teacher-Class" and "Independent-Group" contexts were prominent 
styles of organization for instruction in mathematics at second grade 
(Table 109). The "Teacher-Group"” and "Independent-Individual" contexts 
were least prevalent in rural areas, suggesting that there might have been 
less individualization of mathematics instruction in these schools. The 
relatively higher frequency in rural areas of "Teacher-Class" and "Indepen- 
dent-Class" contexts would tend to support this conclusion. On the other 
hand, "Independent-Individual" and "Independent-Group" work had the highest 
relative frequency in second grade suburban mathematics instruction, 
leading to a tentative hypothesis that individualized instruction in 
second grade mathematics was most common in suburban classrooms and least 


common in schools located in rural areas. 


209 


OT°6Z2 
09°T 
Ot" 

07° 9€ 
a 
$6°2 


06°92 
87°T 
9¢° 
06°E72 
= 
08°T 


Ss$°ZY¥ dnoay rzayoreay 
OT*€ SSPTD AayoePay 
T¢e° TeNpTATpuy Jusepusdepuy 
OL*SE dnoiy Juepuedapuy 
= SSPT) JUepuadeapuy 
vv i dnoiy 31[npy 


UBTPIW 
9=N 
Teany 


ueT pen 


€T=N 
ueqingns 


ue tT pay $3x9]uU09 
77=N 
ueqin 


Z epein - Buppeay - uot eosoy Aq paeTsraraaqs SWOOISSPT) UT 
PeAIaSqO SIX9jZUOD TeBuOFIONAASU] JO |sduUapyToUT pazIer0Ig aBeraay 


LOT 9T9PL 


237 


Ett: Se bt OTK eet -. os S'S Ov°O0Z O8°9E YI'SE dnoip ieuaee] 
97°02 O00°9 €6°ST 67°ZZ OO°OT 9€°LT 6t°tt 9° 6T°Z SseTD teyorel 
69°T cT° Ls° 67°LT tc" 6L°L 8E°4 9T° 6Z°T TENpTATpu] Juspuedepuy 
7O°EZ OF°ZE O7°TE “3s .66°oe: S27 €T°6T S88°9E LYSE dnoig Juepusedapuy 
ca oe. SITS. SESE 08°62 OO°Z7E I2°SE 91°72 yT°T 80°6 SSB) JUepuedepu] 
0 0 0 69°S 78° z7S°T 08" 61° age dnoiy 3[npy 
‘a°s ueTpeN X ‘a's ueTpeW X ‘a°sS ueTpey X $9X9 W400 

YT=N me vT=N hee $7=N Be 

Teany ueqaingns uegip 


S epeayg - ButTpeay - uot eso7 Aq peTyyT3e1Is swooAsseT[D ut 


peariasgg $3xaqUOD TeUOFIONAISU] JO BsdUePTOUT pe eiolg eseisAy 


BOT ?T9PL 


v4 
Je) 


ee s38° Bt*e zO°LT 0L°Z 76°ET 9€°SZ BSE TO°LT dnoig 1ayore] 
ce ce SZ°72 86°ZE 8T* OE 8S°0Z 68°82 69°%E OO°9T LZ2°O0€ SSseTD 19yoee] 
Os*T Ss° €6° Be°ZT 65° z7°9 wr. ft vE°€ TENPTATpu] uepuedepuy 
09° 4T O9°ST S8€°9T 68°02 OO°EE OS*ZE 07° 6T SO°EeT OT’ST dnoigj juepuedepuj 
CI“tE = GE°2t. CO°SE eo'ct = «68S CEE‘ OT ce S6°t 16'S SSET) Juepuedapuy] 
06°Ee cyt ty°z sO°IT OT’T 62° coy ¥z° O°? dnoij 3[npy 
‘a's ueTpay Xx ‘a's ueTpay Xx ‘d°s ueTpeN X $3X9qU0D 

9=N €T=N 7Z=N 

Teany ueqgqangns ueqip 


oO 
ov 
NS 


¢ @peAH - SOTIewWey.eW - uoTIePo07] Aq paeTsT3eAys swooissey) ut 


PeAIeSqO $3xX9qUOD [BUOTIONASU]T JO adoUepPToOUT pa ei0lg a8eraay 


60T °T9PL 


cH 


oO 
“” 
N 


C3 
cM 
N 
Se oe: 2 ee; 8T°s8 6T°Z cS* $9°2 Sct Wot wt? dnoig 1ayoRre] 
ee°tt. Ste weet ek Sa Be es. a ie 2 BCE TUS SSPTD Aeyore] 
0 0 0 8T°Z 0) 8E°7 TO*E€ 80° cZ° TENpfATpu] Juepuedaepuy 
oo°ss. SEs Hat [See me 6. 80°C 96°C OS'ZzZ O6°SZ dnoig jJuevuedepuy 
OS Te OO'c? 6's io. S9°9C. 92° vt 7°S¢: Ot. 8 aI SSBT) Jucpuedepuy 
0 0 0 06°8 + 6S 0 0 0 dnoiy 3[npy 
“G°sS uUeTPpEW X “ad's UeyPeN xX ‘a's ueTpeW X S$9xXs U0) 
vi VI=N 7Z=N 
Teany ueqgiangns ueqin 


GS epery - SsoTJeweYyIeW - uOoTIeIOT Aq paTyT3eaqs SwooAsseyT) ut 


PAAIASGO S$IX9IUOD TeuOTIONAIsU] JO BouepToU] pe yeioig aseiraay 


OTT 9T9PL 


In fifth grade, with the exception of urban areas, learning activi- 
ties were carried on independently of direct teacher involvement in over 
fifty percent of the observations (Tables 108 and 110). While almost half 
of the instruction in the urban fifth grade mathematics classes was "Inde- 


" and "Teacher-Group" 


pendent-Class" or "Independent-Group," "Teacher-Class 

instruction characterized the remainder of the observations at a much 

higher level than all teacher-directed learning in mathematics in suburban 
‘al areas. Evidence of individualized assignments, while infrequent, 


generally were highest in the schools located in the suburban areas for 


both reading and mathematics. 


Teacher activities. The tables summarizing teacher activities (Tables 


hrough 114) provide evidence about consistency of teacher behavior 
veographic location, grade and instructional area. In comparison 

other activities, "Working With" was observed most frequently in all 
groups. However, teachers in urban classrooms always had relatively 
higher prorated frequencies of "Working With" activities than teachers in 
Suburban and rural classrooms. These urban teachers were next most fre- 
quently observed in "Asking" activities in reading, and in "Circulating" 
and being "At Desk" or "At Board" in mathematics. Except for second grade 
reading instruction in rural areas, suburban and rural teachers were 


observed in next order of frequency to be "Circulating" around the room or 
"Checking" student work. In reading instruction at second and fifth 
grade, carrying on "Discussion" sessions were more common in the ru-al 
‘lassrooms than the urban or suburban. 
Teacher responses. Teacher responses to pupil events had generally 
‘currence in all geographic locations (Tables 115 through 


interest, however, to examine the frequencies of "Positive 


00°67 00°8* 90°62 ¢L°O0 Oz7°SS I°?s YITM BuUTyAI0M 
¢Q° 80° 86° i Oe zt* ZH°Z Butstaszedns 
GZ° gs° 99°Z a Ov" OL°T aemsuy 9 UuoTIASeNh 
00°t 89° ¢6°? 87°T 07°T BuTue Asty 
ce’¢ L6°% 66°72 ce" 1£°% BuTazT) uotTIonayAsuy 


LT°Y S78 Oz°T 76°Z Sutd{oq 
€S° 08° T° : S+° Sutute,dxy 
5 L€°? OTT 99° uoTssnostq 
c8° 00°22 oe *T 66°T Sup 3erno1aqy 
80° €72°S €6°T 9Z°T Buy yey) 


6%° 3 & TE °Z paeog iy 

0 8S* 2 09° yseq 3V 
OZ°S 9Z°S ¢0°? T6°S ZutTysy 
61° 9¢° ¢0° so°T Suyjlemsuy 
06° Be ¢3° 60° SuTzjTues1ig 2Twepedy 


UB TPE “a°S UPTPON ueTPeW x SOTITATIOV 
9=N €T=N T7=N 
Teany ueqingns uegin 


Z apeag - Suppeay - uoTIeOT] Aq paTyTIeszas 
SWOOASSPT) UT PeAIasSgO SATITATIOVY JO eouepypoOUT pa Ieioig aBeiaay 


Itt etde1 


Te*sz 2°92 90°82 T8°OZ =6ST°6T §=9T*4z C792 =6S6"VE §=690°BE YIM SuFy10M 


rs. oe S6°% 06°€ ze" T9°T Tey Te" ZE°Z Sutstaredns 
O€°T 92° TS° 08°s L€° by°€ Ot: 09°9 Jemsuy 9 UOTIsSENdH 
61°Z 9¢° t°% cz°9 Cel... “8% 947°T ct gc° Sutue Ist] 
77°€ 89° 61°Z aged cs" 9Z7°€ 9S°¥ coe «TEs BUTATD uoyIonIzYQsuT 
60°Z 0z° et*y ee Gee a Gee as | 61° OT°T g0°€ Sutdteyq 
97°€ ¢z° St°T 84° L0° ee 66°% 07° 9T°Z SututTetdxg 
vO°eIT @S°2 69°4 c6° + i 9¢° 68°Z 6° ZI°4 uoftssnosta 
a.” Of et eet TS*6 O€*y  O€°S 90°9 9Z° 97°F Suz IeTNIATO 
00°8 te: eee 1 te, SG on: S22 €t's cI‘+ oh L£8°Z Sup yoey9 
6£°T 0z° i¢° og*€ ST TZ°T L2°Z 4 TO°T pieog iy 
IZ°6 ss 3% ore rst ita %T° TZ°z 48eq Iy 
ce" zy" €¢°Z 99°/ 89° T6°% 60°S co's «|. 26'S 3uTysy 
0 ) 0 Ty°€T 49° 0z°S 2a. 6 [6c 0°» Suytiamsuy 
z78"s 9¢° he 89°9 o:< €0°¢ 60°Z %T° ‘I°T SupzZpuesig ITWepeoy 
‘a's uetpey X ‘a°s ueTpay X ‘a's uetTpay X SETITATIOV 

YT=N ay oT=N a CZ=N  s 

Teany ueqgqingns ueqin 


S$ 9Ppe1p - BSuypeay - uoz.ed07 Aq Petst3eszqas 
SWOOISSET) UF paaiasqg SatIzAT3cy jo QUePTOUT pe elo0ig e8eiaay 


™N 
wT 
N 


cIt eTqeL 


"O° TZ 
76° 
67° 


S7°Ot 
ag 
ct" 
797° 
09° 


sv°? 
OL°T 
L9° 

Gz°? 
S8°c 


8L°T? sv°yve St°l2 
T6°S 7L° 61°? 
82°S 2 ae 4 
0 0 0 
76°97 cca: Fes 


€T° 62 
€9°S 
cy°t 
9E° 
L6*t 


Os*It 
19°49 
YI'T 
92°L72 
81°6 


80°? 
c6.. 
| 2 
T8° 
0”°6 


£94 
| ae 4 
ce" 

cy 91 
c9*OT 


¢z°s 
8S°% 
99°8T 
9S°ET 
Geel 


wy 
I 
© 


69°2 
70°54 
09°Z 
6t° 
BL° 


6S° 
* & 
Ove 
90° 
0z° 


97 t 
4 i 
88°S 
te 
fy" 


oO 
wo 


N 
\o 
moOeOO & 


% fae | 
SsO°e 
6€°9 
€2°8 
cy? 


© 
wy 


YITM BuUTyI0M 
Sutstarzedns 
iaemsuy 9 UOTISEeNhH 
ZuyTue 3st ] 

BuUTATD uot IoONAAsu] 


OT*7z 
09° 
ct" 
70° 
8s° 


Sutd{ey 
Sutupe[dxy 
uo}ssnostg 

Sut Ae[Noa>pD 
ButyoIeyD 


a 
6T° 
80°C 
cO*T 
79° 


ty 
| 
88° 
9c" 
ce" 


paeog 3V 

ySeq 3V 

3utyXsSy 

ZuyiIemsuy 
BSuyzyTuesig IJywepesy 


UBT Pa 
9=N 
pTeany 


1rd 


"a's ueTpaRR xX 
€I=N 


ueqangns 


"es 


ueTpoeW 


S9TIFATIOV 
7Z=N 


ueqin 


Z epeiay — sot ewey.eW — uot edo" Aq peTsT3e sys 


SUOOISSET) UT paATasqO SAaTIFATISY JO soUaepToU] pa Iei1oig aeBeisaay 


Ctl 9T9FL 


¢L°zT ce°L£zZ 09°0€ Y3TM SuTyI0OM 
%¢° %T° L£0°Z 3utstaiedns 
¢9° ae €8°z Teasuy 9 UoT Send 
LT° 40° %T° Supus sty] 
9s° 62° 66°Z ZUTAT) uoTIONIAQsu] 


06°T 00°8 88° 66°S SutdT ey 
3 T9° €8° 99°4 Suyuyeytdxy 
92° 6Z° tz $3° uoTssnostq 
OI*T OS*? 0”°*T 97°S SuTIeTNIAT) 


09°€ 98° cz*é... 96°E Sup yIeyD 


86° 9I° 6°7 61° a pieog iy 
9S” 76°Z st. “i 98°¢ ySeq IV 
OZ°T ze" €r°9 ze" 61°% Suyy4Sy 
OT’ 90°T L£8°6 It’ 61°€ Suytieasuy 
gt* z?° 6”°¢ TZ* %7°7Z Suyzypues1ig DTwepecy 


UB TPN UPTPEW “a°s uUeTpeN x SOTIFATIV 
YT=N YT=N SZ=N 
Teany ueqgingns uegin 


§¢ @peag - soTIeMeyIeW -— UoTIeDSO7T AQ paTyTIwejas 
SWOOISSET) UT PeAIeSGO SAFITATIOY FO aouapypoul peyeszoig aeBerzaay 


VIT 9T9PL 


ce*z ce"e ee ase SUT IIeATPIy 
OZ°T 00°Z ce" vE°T ZuTZPUsOIayY 
0z7°Z cc*z cet 2e"2 SuTUOTISeNyH 
€6°T 61°? cet =e esTeig 
00°S 6T°Z os°9 29°L yoeqpsey eATITSOY 
oT*Zs 8Z°vT S$z°99 46°S9 QUON 
et? 69°T ¢Tt° L9° YOeQpecsy eat esan 


61° 6Z°T . OT*T ug seaopq 
Bt" 5 By | 78°E ZY" ZE°Z suyTiousy] 
so’e €S°z $z"z ..: -. 6 djay ieyoeey 
| ¥9° L6°¢€ 12° 86°T SuyuTTdtostg 
se*et 82° 3 o7°Z ove But zoOnaysuy 


ue [pep S ueTpon ‘a°S uetTpey X sasuodsay 
9=N €T=N cC=N 
yTeany ueqgangns ueqin 


Z epeayg - Buppeey - uoz QeooT Aq poTsTIejays 
SWOOISSET:) UT peAIesqo sesuodsay jo aduapfoUyl pa zeiolrg aseieay 


STI 919] 


08*T 2°? <i cT*Z BUT IIeATpey 
06° iZ’2 €9°4 19°Z Sutzpusoday 
IT’ 79°Z 7S°T €T° ZuyuoT sendy 
a ZL°€ €L°€ cT°z esteig 
SI°S €L°8 7z°s 09°S yYOeqGpeey eATITSoOg 
04°89 60° 6T "Z7°ST €9°OL SUON 
s¢° L8° ze" €0° YeQGpsey eat eseN 


9T° o7°T 66°T Be ug SeAoW 
8Z° 8l°4 9t * | § Ge 0*° Buyiousy] 
02° Sag OL*T 9O°Z "C°T djayq rzaeyorey 
ta cc°T c?° 0Z°T 90° Sutut Tdtostg 
9t° L0°8 S$6°Z he 07°C But 3oOnaysuy 


ue TpeW ‘a°S ueTpoy ‘a°S ueTpey sasuodsay 
vI=N vI=N : CZ=N 
Teanyg uegqangns ueqip 


¢ apeiyn - Buyppeay - uot AeRedso7] Aq peTst3ejaqs 
SWOOCASSPT) UT peAiresqo sasuodsay jo asduaptTouy, pe .eioig aBeazaaay 


9IT STIFL 


6f°% co°T tTo°¢ i. S'S 67°? c6°Z Sut IeaATpey 
¢o°z 06°72 cy°Z ¢y° €s°t 7 ae) ” Supzpusoday 
02°Z ¢¢s° 40°T 1Z° 2° os*Z Sie ZuyTuoT send 


%6° ¢s° 3S Sh 9° 9S°Z Z0°Y OL* esytelig 
vl? ¢9*4 6$°Z €o°s 00°6 ¢6°9 06°T yIeqpeey eATITSOg 
9¢°6 CL°02 76°72 87°79 ZE°E9 79°6T 09°99 3UON 
67° 4 & 8s° 60° 91° 90°T OT" yoegpeey saz Ieson 


cy" II’ 78° cc" L?° 78° oT" ug seAow 
04°Z ez’ c6°E ee See: cs°t 4 tg ZuyiouZy] 
10°? 06°2 cI’e ot. 26°t Z0°% cs*T d[eyH 1zsyoray 
1°72 19° Lc°T €7" 70°T 88°Z 64° Supuy{Tdtostq 
67° GL°T T8°€ 49°s Gz°s L£9°S OS*T Zut oOnAAsu] 


“a's UueTpaN “a's ueTpeaK X "a's ueTpay sesuodsay 


YT=N YL=N C7é=N 
Teang ueqgingns ueqin 


Z apeiayg - soTIeweuyeW — uOoTIeDOT Aq paTsT3eszqas 
SWOOISSE[) UT peaArasqg sasuodsay jo sdUapPToOU] pe Ieiorlg a¥%eraay 


LTT 9T9PL 


Bt °? 0v* 67°T L£7°Z 88° 
€9°8 S8°T 61°? LT°t 8T°T 
c8* 4 a ae: Os*T €T° 
cv7°Z 9s° 07°T 19°Z L¢* 
€7°s ot° 9Z°E c6°% Of *t 
t° 82 08°69 OT°T9 86°6T €6°€2 
80°T ot * 9S° 90°T 90° 


St’ LT° Te° 96° — 
8I°Y $6° 79°C cyte a 
G6°t Sa f 6S°€ 69°72 O<° 
99°2 8t° 00°T 19°T ve" 
Lt°t OZ*T ce°? 8z° gor 


BSuUTIISATpoYy 
SuTZTUsoOI2y 
SuyTuoTysend 

esTeig 


yoeqpeey eATITSoOg 


@UON 


yIeqpeey sAT eBoy 


ug SeAoKQ 
Suyiouzy] 
d[aq iey lee 
SupuTTdpostg 
Sut 3oOnayAsuy] 


UBT PaW 
YI=N 
Teany 


“a°S UPTPEW Xx “a°S UPTPEN 


YIT=N CT=N 
ueqangns uegin 


Ssesuodsey 


¢ aperzg -— soTIeWEeYyIeW -— UOoOTIeSO7 Aq peTyT3ejIS 


SWOOISSPT) UT peArasqg sasuodsay jo auapyouy pe ei0cjig aBersay 


‘ 


BIT eTqFl 


Feedback" and "Negative Feedback" as well as instances of "Disciplining" 


and "Praise" in order to locate differences in teacher responses which 
might be associated with the locale of the classrooms. In reading instruc- 
tion, "Positive Feedback" was more frequent in the rural setting. When 
"Praise" and "Positive Feedback" were combined, the total frequencies 
occurring in reading instruction were at similar levels in all locations. 
In mathematics, the combined rates of "Positive Feedback" and "Praise" were 
lowest for the rural classes, and highest for suburban at second grade and 
for urban at fifth grade. In all settings "Negative Feedback" was uncommon 
and occurred with similar frequency in both instructional areas, at both 
grade levels and in all locations. Evidence of "Disciplining" was highest 
in second grade suburban classes in reading and lowest in these same 
classes in mathematics. When the rates of disciplining were combined over 
111 instructional areas and grade levels, there seemed tu ve nc difference 
on the whole in the instances of pupil behavior requiring disciplinary 


iction which could be associated with the urbanization of the schools. 


Comparisons of Time Allocation in Instructional Contexts for Schools Differing 
with Respect to Socioeconomic Status Level 

The distribution of number of minutes in each context, the number of 
productive minutes and the percent of overall time and productive time in 
contexts, stratified by SES level for second grade reading, are presented 
in Tables 119 through 124. Each table provides the mean, median and range 

the contexts. When data are presented for the percent of 

productive time in context and the percent of gross productive time, only 
those classrooms in which pupils worked in that context were included in 


the calculations. For these tables, we indicated the actual number of 


Nh 
Ww 
oO 


re 
ry 


assrooms in which pupils were observed in each context (such as Tables 2 
122 and 124). The data presented in the remainder of the tables include 
111 of the classrooms in the computation of the means and medians and the 
percent of time in contexts. (Refer to pp. 59 - 64 in the body of this 
report for a complete description of these time allocation variables.) 

As the reader scans these tables for findings of interest, there will 
e several ways in which the review can be approached. One can examine 
the contexts in which most time was spent across grade levels or across 
instruction within a grade level. Then by comparing the extent of produc- 
tivity in context one has a basis for hypothese.cing the relationship 
between context and productivity by grade and instructional area. Another 
way of reviewing the tables might be to examine differences within a 
particular context. For example, in what areas and at what grade are the 
individual contexts most common? What proportion of classrooms utilize 
1ifferent types of individual instruction? How productive are pupils in 
these contexts? In the discussion of these results, we will make some 
generalizations about possible important differences in instruction which 
reflect the ways in which teachers organize learning experiences in schools 
with populations from differenc socioeconomic status levels. Ina later 
section we will examic differences with respect to location of the school. 

At the second grade across all SES levels, more pupil time was spent 
in Independent-Group reading instruction than in other contexts. Second 
in order of amount of time spent was the Teacher-Group context. We have 
pointed out earlier that there seemed to be evidence that the middle SES 


lassrooms were the ones which »™ployed the Independent-Individual contexts 


e greatest extent. The time allocation data support this conclusion 


24 4 


00°z -0 
00°7T-0 


00°9 -0 


00°T -6 
00°LS-8 
00°¢7-0 
00°€2-0 
00°ZT-0 


00° 00° 
3h 

ae 

00° 

67° 

90° 

00°0€ 
$z°02 


7 


G 


¢z°8 


i mals 
00°72 -0 


00° ZO0T-O 
SU i 
00°9S - 
00°€es 
00°€72 
00*T 


00° 
LT’ 
6€° 
00° 
ot’¢ 
5 
0S*6T 
Os *€T 
L9° 
€0° 


00°2L -0 
00°? -0 
00° 62-0 


00°SS-0 
00°€ -0O 
00°LL-@ 
00°SS-0" 
00°SZ-0 
00°S9-0 


cy 
80° 
+ 4 
00° 
9<¢° 
A ey 
00°OT 
00°ST 
60°T 
88°T 


3Ss9L 
TenpFAtTpul -V 
dno19-y 
SseTo-V 
TenpraTpuy -] 
TenpTATput-L 
dno19-] 
dno1i9-] 
SSPT)-I 
SSPT)D-L 


asuey ueTPeW Qa asuey uBT pay asuey UBT PAN 


6=N U8TH-2TPPIW USTH QTt=N 9?TPPEW YT=N MOT-9TPPTW MO'] 


@ ACV 
-SaS Aq patsy aejaAs swooisseT[) 
-Sutpeay Buting sjxequoj ut quads Aeg 
19g 4yuaepnis tag saInuTW jo AJaquny uPay 


6TT 9T9PL 


00° 00° 00°9 -O0 80° OS* 3soL 

mo .c 92 an: vy" 00°c -0 80° te TenpFrAfpul-V 

00°? 00°0Z-0 6€° Sc"? 00°S2-0 cys dno19-v 

00° 00° 00° 00° 00° sseTo-V 

3 00°72-0 OS'*T S$c*e 00°07-0 82° L0°9 TenpraAtrput-T 

“o> 30° 7T° 5S OO°s 0. at = TenpFAtpuy~1 
00°67-7 O00°CZ2 00°67-0 OS°ET £€9°ST Oo t5"0: €o'e os*?cT dno1i9-] 
00°62-S O00°6T OO°G6¢-t =95°OL . 90°ct Orie So ne Shas dno1i9-L 
00°07Z-0 98° OO s(-a.. 3F" $Z°e 00°EZ-0 SS° ‘ct sseTo-I 
oe stO Ws 00° T-0 to° 90° OO'79-0 I[9°E 62° TT sseTo-L 


asuey uPT pay xX a9 suPey ueTPoW x a duey uetT pen xX 


6=N 48TH-?®TPPTW 43TH 9™=N 2TPPIW VI=N AMO']-9TPPTN MOT 


@ dAdvad 
-SdS Aq patst aeizqg swooisseT) 
-Suptpeay Bupang s zxaquoj ut jueds Aeg 
qUepnyaS Jaq se InNuTW xATIONporag Aaqunyn 


OZT 9T9PL 


00°T -0 90° ir 00° 90°TT os° ? isa] 
00°9 -0 8€° 19° 00°L -O €€" 00°€ it* TENPT AT pul -v 
OO'IE-0 00°% 96°Z 00°27-0 OS'T 00°9¢ -0 Z9°T *  dno19-y 

00° 00° 00° 00° SSETO-V 
00°9T-0 98° nh°Z 00°€9-0 0L°2 00's -0 BE" TENPTATput-] 
00°2 -O €T° Si 00°L -O 2T° 00'S -0 6T° TENPTAT puy-] 
00°09-"Z 00°” 8L°TY 00'7Z-0 OS'8E 00°29 -0 OS‘sT dno19-] 
00°SS-9T SL°6Z 00°ZE 00°S8-9 0S°92 00°00T-0 00°EZ 2 dno19- 
00°Zz-0 0S" 00°8€-0 LTT 00°? -0 60°T “ SSPI0-I 
00°0Z-0 SZ°ST 00°z -0 40° 00°001-0 SZL‘E 12 SSPTI-L 


a suey ueT Pen : asuey UBT Pa asuey ueT POW 


6=N U8TH-?TPPIW 43TH ®TPPIN N MOT-ATPptIn M07 


@ ddveo 
-Sas 44 paetyraeaqys swooasseyT) 
~8utpeay Btufang s3xaquoD ur quads az 
quapnys jzeg SeInNuTW TeIOL uadiaag 


Tcl 9T9P] 


T 00°% 00° 0 4 00°7Z -z OO°ET OO°ET aseL 
4 00°OZ2-" OO°2T O0°2T 9 OO°tzc-B 8—O6°SE O6°S% 4 O0°Sz -@ OS°St OS'9T Tenpraftpul-V 
3 00°97-8Z OO°SE L9°SE l 00°T9-Z Si°St Gees S 00°S8 -ZT O0O°TZ2 O09°ZE dno19-y 
0 0 0 sseTo-V 
T 00°8 00°8 9 OO°ES-TT OO°OE L9°OE c On ti) SEE: OS ° LE TenpFATpul—-] 
T 00°OT OO0°OT € Oe°’42-8  S2°9t. EE "St T 00°SZ 00°SZ TeEnprAT pu, -L 
6 OO°ES-SE 00°79 96°T9 cT Go°se-t. «SE fs SS. TT OO°TS -ZT 00°00” 60°44 dnoi9-1 
6 00°S6-Z7 OO°LZ2 68°TZ 9T 00°S6-7 OO°TS 9S9°0S IT OO*OOT-ZT 00°67 60°2S dno1i9-] 
€ OO°Z8-OT SZ°ee EE*BE 7 0O*28-1 °° os. OE. Se TF € 00°S6 -TZ2 OS°9S O00°LS sseTo-1I 
f GO°GZ-ST Sc°SY 62°tY T 00°8 00°8 Ss 00°26 -”7 00°08 00°92 sseTo-1 “te 

N asuey ueTPoW X N asuey ueT POW X N a suey ueT pow X mS 

Ten.oy oes Tenqoy ap Ten oy ity 
Y3TH-9TPPIW 43TH 9TPPTW MO'T-9TPPEW MOT] 
~ AdVYSD 


-SaS Aq patjt3e1qsg swooiasset[) 
-SutTpeay Buf~aing s3zxaquoyj ut quads Aeg t3eg 
quapnjs tag saanutW eat IoNporag quadiag uPay, 


ccl PT9PL 


254 


00°9 -0 
00° 6£-0 


00°ZT-0 


00°8S-SZ 
00°0S-8T 
00° 6T-0 


00° 00° 
3 

0S*? 

00° 00° 
€*° 

3 

0S *S 
00°62 

$Z* 


00°42 -0 
00°*67-0 


00° 68-0 
00°2 -0 
00° 72-0 
00°08-9 
00° 79-0 


00° 
£9" 
OS* 
00° 
OL°? 
=: 
00°T? 
00°SZ 
00°T 


0O0*ZT -0 
as 
00°94 -0 


00°TS8 
00°9 
00°89 
00*O00T-0 
00°77 -0 


£9° 
$c" 
76°T 
00° 
8t° 
Aa 
GZ°LT 
0S *€Z 
ie 


3se] 
TenpTAT pul -v 
dno19-y 
sseTo-V 
TenpraATput—] 
TenprATput~-L 
dno19-I 
dno15-] 
SSeT)-I 


00°07-0 xz°tT 0G°i -O £0° 00°O00T-O" ¢ °E€ sseTo-L 


asuey ueT PeW x oduey uPT paw 9 suey URTPeW xX 


6=N Y8TH-®TPPTN 43TH QI=N ?TPPTN yI=N MO1-2TPPTW M07 


f advud 
-Sas Aq patsT3eiaig swooissey) 
-Suy pray Buring s3zxequog ut quads Aeg Jaq quapnis 
1aq aWTL ssoiy quadiag uPaW 


€ZT STIPL 


oe 
Ww 
N 


quapnyas 19g saUWTL 


-SasS Aq petyT aezqisg swooisseT) 
- Z3utpeesy Suraing s3xaqUuoD uf juads Aeg jag 
@ATIONPOAg ssolayg JuardIag uPAayY 


97T 9T9PL 


T OO°EE OO'EE 0 | 4 00°28 “ct OS*°69 O0S°6Y ase] 
c 00°00T O00*O0T v OO*OOT-SS 0S°Z8 0S*78 | c 00°O00T O00°OOT TenpFATpul-V 
€ 00°26 -S9 00°62 9°62 l 00°¢6 -T7 SZ°TS8 00°92 | S 00°86 -0L SZ°08 09°T8 dnoi9-y 
0 0 fo sseT9-V 
T 00°*O0T O00°OOT 9 00°S8 -2¢ 00°62 Os*sd | S 00°76 -OS SZ°*8L O8°SZ TenpFATpul-] 
T 00°O00T 00*O00T t 00°O00T-0S 0S°Z8 €€°€8 T 00°O0T O00°OOT TenpFArpuy-L 
6 OO'98 -9S Sc°cd tees cT 00°96 “zt €9°SZ €€°99 IT OO*OOT-7S S72*6L €2°6Z2 dno19-I 
6 OO*OOT-OL €T*68 00°28 9T 00° 00T-6 0S *68 TE*8Z TT OO*OOT-82 OS°28 94°62 dnoi9-L 
€ 00°48 -49 OO°TS 29°62 7 00°66 -€ 00°72 0s *c9 t OO*OOT-cS OS°S8 E£E°28 ctrahed gee" Sm 
l 00°96 -€L SZ°76 12°88 if 00°O00T O00*OOT $ 00°86 -7Z SZ°S8 0”°S8 ert 
asuey ueT POW x N asuey ueT pay 3 N oduPey UBT PAW x 
TenIoy Ten oy TenI.oy 
Y8TH-2®TPPIW 43TH oTPPIN MO'T-9TPPTW MOT] 
@ advao 


since the context which averages third highest in time for the middle SES 
schools was Independent-Individual. In the high and low SES classrooms, 
Teacher-Class contexts ranked third. 

At least 50 percent of the reading instruction time of second graders 
was spent in Teacher-Group and Independent-Group contexts. The differences 
between the SES levels of the schools were most prominent in the extent of 
feacher-Class instruction. In the low SES schools, 24 percent of the time 
was in this context, while it occurred only six percent of the time in 
middle SES schools. At the low SES levels, there was a greater extent of 
reading instruction by class (T-Class and I-Class) than at the other two 
socioeconomic status levels. In the high SES schools, the proportion of 
individual instruction was less than for middle and low SES classrooms. 

The extent of fifth grade reading instruction by class (T-Class and 
I-Class) in the low SES classrooms was generally the same as at second 
grade. However, there were large differences between grade levels in the 
extent to which instruction was by the teacher to the class as a unit in 
the high SES schools (Tables 125 - 130). Table 127 shows that 63 percent 


of reading instruction time in high SES classrooms was in T-Class and I- 


Class contexts while only 34 percent ‘of time in middle SES classrooms and 


27 percent of time in low SES classrooms was in -hese contexts. The 
proportion of time in instruction by group (T-Group and I-Group) remained 
the same in the fifth grade low SES classes and middle SES classes as it 
was in second grade, but it decreased to 30 percent (compared with 74 per- 
cent at second grade) in the high SES classes. Teacher-Class instruction 
was judged to be the most productive of ali contexts in fifth grade 
reading for the high SES classes and the low SES classes although the 


percent in the latter case was considerably lower. Teacher-Group instruc- 


251 


00° 
00° 
00° 
00° 
00*O£-O 8st" 
00° 


00°O0S-0 62° 
00°62-0 726°Z 
00°TS-O0 O00°*9T 
00°O8-0 Sz°? 


00° 
00° 
00° 
00° 
9E°E 
00° 
79°TT 
z8°8 
€2°6l 
97° 8ST 


00°ST-O 
00°T -0 
00°09-0 
00°97-0 
00° 0S-0 
00°*SE-0 


z8° 


00° 
90° 
00° 
00° 


90° 

a 4 
76°6 
T?° TTI 
3 a 


00° 8T-0 


00°*TE-0 


00°6£-0 
00°Z -0 
00°09-0 
00 °*07-0 
00°S9-0 
00°*8T-0 


ov 
00° 
5c* 
00° 
8° 
s0° 
GL°ST 
0s*8 
set 
€t*t 


Isa] 
TenpFArpuy -v 
dnoi9-y 
ssei)-V 
TenpTATpul-] 
TenpyAF PUL —-L 
dno15-] 
dno1i9-] 
sseTo-I 
sseTo-L 


asuey ueT pon x asuey UBT POW x asuey ueT Pen 


TZ =N AO'1-9TPPTN MOT 


TI=N 4U8TH-?TPPEW USTH LI=N 2TPPEW 


¢ advud 
-Sas Aq petyriezIg swooissety) 
- But prey Buting s3Kaquoyj uz queds Aeg jag 
quepnqs ieq seqnurW jo 1equnN uPey_ 


Sct 9T9PL 


00°*6l 


00*ZE 
00°62 
00°0% 
00°92 


00° 
00° 
00° 
00° 


1 oe 


00° 


00°*ST-O 


00°92-0 


00°22-0 
00°Z -0 


—. L°¢ fev 00°8%7-0 00°9%7-0 


“) 0-:¢ 8I°9 00° €72-0 00° 7€-0 
“Se: t8 44°46 00*0€-0 00°€S-0 
“6: SE Le°sT >, SP Ve-O 49" 00°7T-0 


ie 
00° 
Os* 
00° 
8° 
s0° 
Sz°tt 
¢c°9 
Bt" 
Se 


00° 
ct*¢ 
00° 
YI°? 
OT* 
00°ST 
LS°6 


Iso] 
TenprAt pul -V 
dno19-y 
sseTo-V 
Tenpraftput—-]T 
TenpraATrpul—-L 
dno19-] 
dno19-] 
SseT)-I 
SSPTI-L 


asuey 


ueTPaW x asuey 


USTH-9TPPTW U3TH 


uBT pon X aduey 


STPPIW 


UBTPON 


x 


MO'T-2TPPTW M07] 


¢ advuo 
-SaS Aq petyt 3eaqs swooissey{) 


- 8uTpeeay Butang s3xeajuoj) ut queds Aeg a 
wuapPNIS Jag Sa AnuTW eaATIIONporg Jaquny u 


9ZT 9T9UPL 


ad 
POW 


00°0S-0 


00° 29-0 
00°€S-0 
00°S6-0 
00° 08-0 


00° 
00° 
00° 
00° 
ee 
00° 
€7°Z 
80°Z 
OS *T? 
$l*6 


00° 00° 00°0S Sz*T 
60° 00° 
00° 00° O0O°€E C'S 
00° 00° 00° 
00°€E 09° fy°c¢ 00°€9 9S°T 
00°2 90° ct” 00°2 8T* 
00°S6 OS°c” 78°74 00°68 OS ‘OE 
00° #7 88°6T O0°8T 00°29 00°8T 
00°OOT-O 8€°7 90°82 OO*OOT-O T°? 
00°C? -0 €2°2 ce°9 woe 6 6SZ"S 


Ise] 
TenprArpul-vVv 
dno19-y 
sse{9-vV 
TenprATpuy—] 
TenprATpuy—-L 
dno15-] 
dno19-] 
sseTo-I 
SsPeTO-L 


a suey 


TI=N U3TH-®TPPIW USTH 


ueT POW 


x 


3 Ssuey UBT Pon X osuey ueT pen 


ZT=N 92TPPEN TZ=N MOT-9TPPTW MOT 


¢ aqvad 
-Sas Aq petjfz3ezqs swooisseT{) 
-SuTpeay Buying sqxequoy) ut juads Aeg aag 
quapnNyAS Jag seynuTW TeIOL Aueoi19eg uPay 


LcTt T9PL 


00°44 321 
TeENpTATpul-V 

00°OS -8Z O0S*0” dno19-¥ 
sse®{to-V 

00°78 -9T oOs*TS TENpFAT pul -I 
00°Sz TENpTAFpul-L 

00°88 -£T 00°€9 dno19-] 
00°86 -6 OS*L¥ dno1i9-] 
00°98 -S 00°24 sse{)~I 
OO°OOT-6 SZ*#S sseTo-L 


00°7t-2 cl°%2 0Oo*TT 
T 00°e 
00°72-S% OO°LS val 00°96 -?IT Sz°etl 
OO°78-9E SZ°HS ZT 00°96 -ST 00°SZ 
0O°2Z6-ST SZ2°OL OT OO°OOT-"T O0°vE 
00°S6-09 00°82 S 00°46 -O€ OS*?S 


T 
0 
€ 
0 
S 
T 
S 
9 
6 
6 


N asuey ueT pe X N aduey uPT POW X N asuey ueT POW X 
Tenq.oy Si Ten.oy a Tenjoy a 
Y8TH-?PTPPTW U3TH : 9TPPIN AOT-29TPPIW M0] 


¢ adqdvud 
-Sas Aq paetyz aeaqsg swooissel[) 
~8utTpeey Buraing sjxequog uy quads Aeg iad 
Juapnyas tag saynuTW eATIONpoIg JUuadieg uePaW 


8ZT FT9PL 


00° 29-0 


00° 29-0 
00°6S-0 
00°76-0 
00°08-0 


00° 
00° 
00° 
00° 
76° 
00° 
Ls°8 
os*Z 
OS*SE 
$z°oT 


00° 
00° 
00° 
00° 
8T°Z 
00° 
97°9T 
Lz°vT 
cS" 6t 
cs°t7 


00°€E 
00°T 

00°S6 
00°8t 


00° 00T-0 


00°TY? 


-0 


00° 
90° 
00° 
00° 
09° 
€0° 
ey 
00°TZ 
Os*s 
00*E 


00° 


00°9€ 


00°79 
00°Z 

00°98 
00°29 


00 *O00T-0 


00° 4 


00° 
99°2 
8T* 
GZ°Le 
2°02 
88°? 
9°? 


asuey 


ueT pen 


X 


IT=N US3TH-®TPPTN 43TH 


asuey 


ueT Pe xX 


LT=N 2TPPEW 


3 suey 


ueTPen 


MOT-9TPPTWN MOT 


sel 
TenpraAtpult-yv 
dno19-y 
sseTo-V 
TenpFrAtpuy -] 
TEnpFAs put -L 
dno1i9-I 
dno15-] 
sse®To-I 
SsseTo-L 


¢ dqvuad 


-SaS Aq patyr3e1zys swooisseT) 
-Zuypeey Butang syxaquo) ur quads Aeg iag 


Waepnys Axeq aeWT] sso1ig yuadizag uPAay 


671 PT9PL 


sol 
TeENpTATpul-V 
00°S8 -TZ 49°62 dno1i9-V 
SSP®T9-V 
00°€6-€9 O0°TL 00°O00T 00*00T 00°26 -49 00°48 08°48 Tenpratpuy-] Po 
00°0S 00°0S 00°OOT 00°00T TENPFATPUI-L wy 
00°T8-7S 00°29 00°76 -6S OS*I8 T2°8Z ST 00°S6 -OS SZL*¥L EL*4L dnoi9-I 
00°86-SE O00°TZ OO'OOT-EL E€8°T6 E€°T6 
00°46-Z% SL°9L 00°OOT-6Z OS*E8 OF°0Z 
00°S6-S9 0S*8 00°O0T-06 EI°E6 08°€6 


9T 0O0*O0OT-0S 00°88 69°S8 dno19-], 
6 OO°T6 -OT SZ‘TZ 96°99 sse{[Q-1 


6 00°OOT-€9 OS*88 OF°S8B sse®To-1 


7 ssa iz de fai ras a 


asuey ue TPoNW asuey ueT POW x N asuey ueTPoOW 


TenIoV 
USTH-?TPPIW U3TH | ITPPIW 


Tenqoy 
~MO7-3TPPTW MOT 


¢ aqdvVao 
-Sas Aq patyt3ezqsg swooisselTy 
-Suptpesy Sutang s}xea quo) ut quads Aeg Jag 
WapNyAS Jeg WT] PATIIONpoOAg ssoiyg YusodIeg uray 


OfT PT9PL 


tion in reading in the middle SES schools was a relatively frequent 
occurrence and judged to be a highly productive setting for pupils. 


This examination of time allocation in contexts in reading shows that 


the distribution of time was fairly consistent between grades in the low 


SES schools, but changed markedly between second and fifth grade in the 
hign SES classrooms. The data also show that individualized instruction 
oecurred most frequently at the middle SES schools, ranking third after 
group instruction in time allocation. 

The tables next in order are those reporting the time allocation data 

for second grade (Tables 131 through 136) and fifth grade (Tables 137 
through 142) mathematics. Second grade pupils in the high SES schools 

were involved in instruction by the teacher to the entire class 75 percent 
of the time, while group instruction occupied 21 percent of the total 
number of minutes reported for mathematics in these classes. Four contexts 
dominated mathematics instruction at both grade levels, but there were 
lifferences among SES level of school in the extent of group instruction. 
In the middle SES scnools the time spent in instruction by class and by 
zroup in mathematics was similar. In the low and high SES schools consider- 
ibly more time was spent in instruction by class. Independent-Individual 
ontexts were a relatively rare form of mathematics instruction at second 
grade involving only a few low and middle SES classrooms, and only two 
‘lassrooms at fifth grade, (both low SES). 

The data characterize mathematics instruction at fifth grade as being 
in contexts where the class works independently of the teacher 
total unit on the same assignment or in groups with assignments 

to learning level.’ For example, even though much time was 


devoted to the Teacher-Class context in the low SES classes, the combined 


236 


time spent in the Independent-Class and Independent-Group contexts in the 
low SES classrooms was greater than the combined contexts with teachers 
directly in charge of the instruction. 

When one examines the second grade mathematics tables for evidence of 
the contexts in which there were greater levels or productivity as judged 
by the observers, both class and group instruction had high levels of 
productivity in the high and middle SES classes. The productivity level 
was lower in the low SES classes with the exception of the Teacher-Class 
context. It is of interest that of all SES levels, Teacher-Group instruc- 
tion was observed to be least productive for the low SES pupils. In the 
low SES classes the relatively low level of observed productive work and 
the indication of a reliance on instruction by class or independently of 
the teacher raises the question of the degree of teacher dependence on 
curriculum materials or textbooks and their effectiveness for guiding the 
learning experiences of children in mathematics. 

Mathematics instruccion of the class as a unit (Independent-Class) 
was most common in the fifth grade high and middle SES schools. Teacher- 
Class instruction was still prevalent in mathematics lessons for the low 
SES classes, but an almost identical prorortion of time was spent in the 
Independent-Class context. When the time allocation units associated with 
instruction by class were examined, the proportions for class instruction 
were similar for second and fifth grade low and high SES classrooms, but 
Tables 133 and 139 show that the percentage of Teacher-Class time at fifth 
grade was considerably less than at second grade even though the amount of 
time spent in instruction by class (Teacher-Class time and Independent- 


Class time) was similar at both grade levels. This means that as pupils 


289 


00°6 -O0 95° 00° 00° 3S3] 
00° 00° 00°? “0 80° 00°€ -O 60° TenpyAtpul -v 
00° 00° oo’? “0: Fe’ OO°Rr-e £9’ dnoig-y 
00° 00° 00° 00° sseTo-V 
00° 00° CO*O£-0 88° OO' Si-O: éc* TenpFAT pul -] 
00° 00° 00° 00° TenpFAF put -L 
00°07-0 O° 9S° OO*7E-0 SZ°L 00°cc=-0 Sf°t dnoip-] 
O0*OT-O SZ° tte OO*EE-O BEC 00°62-0 OO°T dnoi9-L 
00°82-0 O0S*Z i ag OO"Lc-0 $l"? OO'St-O £e°T sseTO-I 
OO°97-0 tte 98°TC OO°tt-0 Os‘cz 00°0S-0 OS*OT sseTo-1 


asuey uBeT Paw X asuey ueT pay a suey UBT Pay 


6=N U8TH-9TPPIW 43TH ST=N ®TPPTW €I=N MO]-9TPpTW Mo] 


@ Advuo 
-Sas Aq patjt3e13sg swoojasseTy 


~SO;JewWsYyIeW Buying syxequoy iz quads Avg tag 
JuapnNIg Asx%q sa nuTW jo Jaquny ueay 


TeT 9T9PL 


00°0T-0 
00°6 -0 
00°*ST-O 
00°T-0 


00° 


0” 
OS 


Fe 
0S°8T 


00° 
00° 
i 
68°T 
tc 
ce"st 


00°T -0 
00°€ -0O 


oO T <0 
00°*OT-0 
00°7¢-0 00°2T-0 cZ° 
00° 00° 
TA | OO°ET-O OS*Z2 
00°? 00°*ST-O O0°T 
90°E 00°7T-0 9° 
0S°*9 00*7E€-0 00°6 


00° 22-0 
00°62-0 
00° 77-0 
00° 82-0 


Iso] 
TENpTATpuy-V 
dno19-y 
SSPI)-V 
TenpTATput~-1 
TenprATpult-L 
dno19-]I 
dno19-], 
sseTo-I 
sseTo-L 


a suPey 


UBT POW X 


=N U3TH-2TPPTW 43TH 


—— 


‘a duPey uet pay 9 duey UPT Pow 


CT=N 92TPPEW €T=N MOT-9TPPTW ACT 


Z@ AdVvud 
-Sas Aq patjt3eaqs swooisseT) 
~ SoTJeWeUIeW_ Buying s3zxequoD ut yuadg Aeg 1g 


quapnys aag saqnuyW @9ATIONpoOIrd JsquNN uUPReyW 


cet 9TIPL 


88°T 
00° 
00° 
00° 
00° 
00°T 90° 
00°29 00°2 
0O°*EE Si°% 
00°89 ¢z°9 
00°O00T-O0 0S°09 


00°S 
' 00° OT 


00°%V7E 
00°OT 
00°TZ 
00 *00T- 
00°29 - 
00°08 - 


00° 
80° 
f° 
00° 
t9°¢ 
9€° 
00°ST 
0 t9°8 
Bie ah: 
QO Sc°tt 


00°S 
00° 7€ 


00°84 


00°72 


00°SS 
00°9€ 


00*00T-0 


00° 
O€° 
8L°T 
00° 
£9" 
00° 
csc°Tt 
$2°? 
68°C 
00°0" 


se] 
TenpTAT pul -v 
dno1i9-y 
sseTo-V 
TenpF AF pul -] 
TenpFAFpul~-L 
dno1i9-] 
dno1i9-], 
sseTo-I 
sseTo-1 


a S5uey ueT PAW X 


6=N U3TH-9TPPIW 43TH 


aauey 


UBT Pen 


CT=N 


9TPPIW 


X asuey 


uet pen x 


€T=N AO0'T-9TPPTW MOT 


Juapnys Azx9q sa ynuTW TRIO] yuec1eg uPay 


@ Advud 


-SaS Aq patjs13e13S swooissetT) 
-SoTIeMsUIe_ BuTAng syxeIUOD uy jueds Aeg zag 


€€T PT9PL 


389] 
00°OT-8 00°6 00°6 TenpFAFpul-v 
OO*OS-ST SL°9Z €E°LZ dnoi9-y 

sse1)-V 

00°0%-7 OS*ST SL°8T Tenpy AF pul~I 
TenpyAF pul -L 

00°89-OT OO0°ZE £9°9E dnoi9-I 
00°9S~—L OS°LT T°? dno1p-] 
00°87-9 OS°TE S2°62 sseTo-1 
00°88-92 OS‘T9 OT*TYI sseTo-1 


OO°TT-OT OS°OT 
OO°tt-8 S$c°vr 


OO°Ee-BT SL°?c?e 

00°LT 
00°78-L 00°S*? 
00°'S8-€2 O00°6E 
OO°EL-82Z O0'8E 
00°06-09 OS*LZ 


00°28-OT OS‘TS 
00°88-t 00°02 
00°S6-92 O00°TL 
00°88-ST 00°L9 


T 
0 
0 
0 
0 
T 
4 
t 


uy 


a eo. OO SO Ss La O 
oo = = ee 8: S.. eS 


N asuey ueT Pan x N aduey uBT Pay x N a suey uPT PeW x 
Tenqoy Tenqoy , TenIoVv 
6=N U3TH-91PPEW 44TH | CT=N OTPPTIW | €T=N AMOT-9TPPEW MOT 


-Sas Aq patsy 3ezqig swooisseT[) 
- so; eWaYyIeW Buying s3xe\UOD UT queds Aeg Jag 


JUSPNIS Jaq SaINUT_ PAFIONpOAg JUsd1ad uPaW 


YET PTIPL 


00° 
00° 
00° 
00° 


00° 00° 
00°4 i LY° 
00°ST oi L9°Z 

00° 00” 
00° 6% 8f'y €1'8 


00°2 
00°€Ee 


00°T? 


00° 
St 
979°C 
00° 
£9" 


Isa] 
TenpFAT pul -y 
dno1i9-y 
sseTo-vV 
TenprAt pul -1 


oot. -@. s° 00°T 70° £O° 00° TenpFAF pur -L 
00°29 Oz'T 00°€Z 00°8T 0°92 00°72 00°OT dnoi9-] 
00*€E Fae | OO*OOT-O £9°€ 00°8T 00°2S OS*E€ dnoi9-1 
00°69 OS°*" OO°OS ~0 SL°et tt'at 00° TY? cet sseTO-1 
00*O00T-O0 OS°E9 OO' LL “0 SECT OFS 00°O00T-O OS°9E sseTO-L 


asuey  ueTpayW X aduey uey poy X asuey  ueTpay X 


6=N U3TH-?8TPPEW 43TH 


Ci-N 9@TPPEW 


€T=N MOT-9TPPTW MOT] 


F @ aqvadd 
-Sas Aq patyr3eazqg swooisseT{) 
-~SIT IeMeUIe_ Buying sjyxaquoy ut queds Aeg 43g 
yuapnys jeg avy] sso1ig juadiag ueay 


SET 9T9BL 


tee ee oe ED 


isa] 


tL CCC CC LLL LL OD Ae 


O0'OOT OO"MOT | CC 
0O'OOT-LS 0S°8Z TeENpTATpul—-yv 
OO*OOT-SL SL°€6 dnoig-y 
sseto-vV 

00°OOT-L9 OS‘T8 TeNpTAT pul -I 
TENpFATPUL-L 

OO*OOT-O£ 05°08 dno1ip-1 
O0O*OOT-9€ O0S‘°9L dno1ip-] 
00°46 -€€ O00°T9 sse{)-I 
00°66 -SS 00°SZ SSeTO-L 


00°OOT-78 00°76 
00°O0T-08 00°S6 


00°S8 -ZZ 00°08 

00°O0OT 00°O0T 
00°98 -87 O0°SZL O0°SZ 00°O00T-8S 00°82 
00°26 -S8 00°76 00°£6 OO°OUT-£S 00°96 
OO°OOT-7S 00°29 O7°89 | 00°S6 -89 88°28 
00°S6 -79 SZ°38 00°S8 00°96 -LS 88°08 


0 
4 
£ 
0 
9 
0 
8 
L 
vj) 
0 


N a suey ueT POW X | N a suey ueT Pop N aduey utT pay X 


Tenqov | Tenoy Tenqoy 
Y3TH-2TPPIW 43TH SI=N ®LPPIW €T=N MOT-9TPPTH M07] 


-Sas Aq patsy 3eaqg swooisse[) 
-~So}.ewWayIe_ Buying syxaquoyg uy quads Aeq 19g 
}UaPNAS 1aq AWTL PAFIONPOAg sso1g JUadIag UPAR 


9€T PTUPL 


00°8 -O 60° €c° ty" 38a] 
oe) “OE 70° LO° 00° 00° TenptAtpul-v 
oO"t “0. 7O" 70° L0° 00° 00° dno1ip-y 
00°0%-0 YT 00° 00° 00° 00° sseTo-vV 
OO°ZT-O 6T° 00° 00° | 00°8 -O O° i TenpyAtput~] 

00° 00° 00° G1.“ Sy" 60° TenpFAtpul =] 
00°cS-0 OS°9 00°82-0 OO°?2T €6°TT OO'Lt-0 t9°2 79°8 dnoip-] 


00°LE-0 06° 00°22-0 OS° ty 9 00°Sc-0 S° 78°S dnoap-], 
00°S7-0 Sit 00°L"7-0 OS*9T O0°9T 00°8S-0 SZ°ET 60°9T sseTO-1 
00°0S-O SL'TT 00°0%-0 O0°E 7T°6 0OO°C?-0 OO°CT Y¥9°ST sseTO-1 


aauey uPeT pay X 


asuey UBT Pa, X aduPey UPT pa}, Xx 


6T=N MO1-9TPPTW MOT “T=N 2TPPTK TI=N 48TH-OTPPTK U3TH 


¢ aqvad 
-Sas Aq petst ejzqas swmooisseTty) 
-SOTIeWayIe_ Butang syxequo,) uz queds Aeq Jag 
quapnjs iaqg saqnuTW jo Jequny uesey 


L€Tt 9T9dPL 


60° BS* as q3sa] 

€0° So" 70° 00° TeEnpTAT pul -y 
00°T -O €0° So" 70° 00° dnoiy-¥ 
OO°TE-O 78° 4 Bat 4 00° | Sse O-V 
OO’€T-O0 9€° 89° 00° 00°€ -O ST° L2° TENPTATpul-] 

00° 00° 00° 00° 00° TeENpTAypuy-] 
00°S?-0 Sz°S  IT'6 00*T7-0 00°6 OO°EZ-0 SL°*T 00°9 dnoi9-] 
OO*TZ-0 S*° 7 a] 0O'8T-O O0S‘Z OO°ST-O LS’ 00°4 dnoip-] 
00°0£-0 SL*6 00°97-0 0S°6 00°07-0 SL°OT 99°2T SSPTO-1 
OO"’€E-0 ET'S OO*EE-0 €9°Z OO°€E-0 BE'OLT 79°2T SSET)-1 


aduey = UB Fa x 


onuey UP T Peay x ~ esuey “a UBT paW Z 


6T=N MOT-9TPPEN M07 YT=N P8LPPEh IT=\ U3TH-®TPPTW 43TH 


¢ aqdvud 
-SAS Aq patyt ezqig swuooisseToO 
SOTQUWAYIL), BuTANg saxequoy uy Juads Avg Jag 


juapnys 19q Sa Nut, PATIONpoOAg AVquNny UPd}, 


BET STIUPL 


00°07-0 


00° 0€-0 


00°S9-0 
00°SS-0 
00°96-0 
00° T8-0 


00° 
00° 
00° 
OS*T 
00° 
si"? 
98° 


OO*TE 
00° Et 


00°02 
00°T 
00°T 
00°EZ 
00°0S 
00°T 
-0 00°92 00°72 
-0 OO°T 00° 6S 


“0°O0T-O OS‘°ZE 00°78 
-O0 OS‘*OT 00°*00T-0 


6T* 
£0° 
£0° 
67° 
gt’ 
€0° 
GL°eT 
ti 4 
OS *LZ 
00°42 


Ise] 
TenprAr pul -v 
dno19-y 
ss®T0-V 
TenpFAFput-] 
TenprAFpul=L 
dno15-] 
dno15-] 
sseTo-I 
sseTo-1L 


asuey 


IT=N U8TH-®TPPTW 43TH 


ueBTPOW 


ueT Pop asuey 


YIT=N 2TPPEW 


UBT PEW 


6T=N MOT-3TPpTW MoT 


¢ aqvuo 
-SaS 4q petst3e13sg swoorsseT) 


6€T 9TIPL 


-SoTJeweyu.eW Buying sjyxeq\uoyg ut queds Aeg 13g 
Juapnys Jeg sa ynuTW TeIO] yuacrAeg uPay 


00°8Z €€°0E | 389] 
00°? 00°F TeNpT AT pul -v 
00°”  00°Y dnoi9-y 
00°8L -Ly 0S°79 06°29 SSPT)-V 
00°6€ -T 00°02 00°02 TeNpTAF pul —~I 
00°9 00°9 TenpTAT pul -L 
00°T8-82 00°64 00°L8 -8 O0°E” €€°EY dno19-] 
OO*€o-t OSes 00°49 -9T OS*TE L9°SE dno1g-L 
O00°L8-OT O00°€S 00°46 -0Z Sz°SS <SS°ES Sse )-] 
00°26-ZE 00°L8 | OO°OOT-ET 00°79 9€°E9 SSPTO-L 


00°ET 

00°T 
00°98-8T 0S°%% 
00°76-6€ SL°E9 
00°S6-E% SL°6L 
00°86-02 0S°62 


oo 2 6. 8: OC. CO SS eS 


N a Suey ueT pay X N 3 duey uet pay X asuey ueT pan x 
Tenqoy sd Tenqoy igs Ten yoy 


TI=N US8TH-®TPPTW 4USTH 


"T=N 2TPPEW 6T=N MOT-9TPPTW MO] 


§ aavad 
-~Sas Aq peTyt3e1zqisg swooissel[) 
- so} }eMeYyIeW BuTang syxequog uf Juedg Aeq 13g 
quapnyas tag saqynuTW AATIONpOAg JQuadiag uPsyW 


OVT 9TIUPL 


oO"9c-C . 96° 6C°? O6°ET “0. €6° oo"or “0 Gt" sv 4 339] 


00° 00° 66°2. 3D" 7T° 0°20 36 tC TenprATpul-v 

00° 00° os: SO. OO ¥T° oo" t:. -@ 40° $0° dno1i9-y 

00° 00° 00° 00° co°EL -0 8B'T €s°s sseTo-V 
00°9Z-0 O€'T 9E°C 00° 00° 00°9€ -O 8t° 9°? TenpyAT pul -T 
00°T -0 s0° 40° 00° 00° oo°tT “0 60° $0" TenprATput -L 
00°S9-0 00°9 00°<T OO°EL “0 OS°9C tP?'9C j 00°72 -O OO°ET 78°02 dno19-] 
00°TS-O 98° 00°*TT 00’'TS -O OO'T 00°ST oo’ se “Go See a ies dno19-] ie 

: 00°S4-0 Sc°rt cere 00°OOT-O OO°SE “40°8E 00°78 -O 00°72 78°82 sseTo-I S 
GO°TO"0.-0S' £E. Chee 00°08 -O 0S°6 9C°6I OO°OOT-0 S$z°Sc 91°62 sseTo-1L 
a duey ueT Pay x asuey uet pon x a duey ueT pen xX es 
TI=N YSTH-®TPPIW USTH 7I=N 2TPPTN 6T=N MO'J-9TPPTW MOT 
¢ Jdvuao 


-Sas Aq petyt 3wejzys swooissel[y) 
-SOTJewsYyAeW BuyTang syzxe UO) ut quads «eq Jaq 
quapnjyas tag awt] sso1i9 quaoiag uray 


\o 
~ 
N 


T9T ?T9eL 


00°00T 00°00T | OO’OOT-€8 SL°S6 £E'%6 isa] 
00°SZ | 00°0L 00°02 [eNPTAT pul -¥ 

00°29 | 00°08 00°08 dno19-y 
| 00°8Z -89 OO°EL O0'EL SSPTD-¥ 

o'se oo'sEe | ) 00°8L -"T 00°9% 00°94 [PNPT APU -] 

00°0Z 00°02 } 00°00T 00°00T  TenprATpuy-1 

OO'OOT-£S OO°TL | 00°76 -8y S , 00°00T-9€ OS"78 Sz°8Z dno19-] 
00°00T-8S 00°9Z | J0°€6 -OS SZ 00°O00T-8S SZ7°78 96°78 dno19-1, 
00°S6 -4S : cei ee ee 00*00T-0€ : 00°96 -6€ OS*ZL 8T‘OZ SSPeTQ-I 
| 00°46 -zZ 00°00T-ZS OS*SL 62°SL SsP1)-1 


ue T Pay ee N o3suey eT pow asuey uPT Paw X 
| Tenqoy Tenqoy mo 
=N YSTH-9TPPIN I i 6T=N M0']-9TPPTW MOT 


Gg aqVvud 
-SaS Aq peaeftytaeazaqsg swooisseyty) 
-~ SoTJeMayIeW ButTang s}zxaquoy uy yueds Aeq 19q 
JUapNas Jag ATL xATIONporg ssoay yuadisg uP OW 


ZY PTIPL, 


Gu? 


‘ 


get older a greater proportion of their time in mathematics will be guided 
by textbook or workbook learning experiences and less time will be spent 
in teacher-directed activities. 

n comparison to the other SES levels, the middle SES classrooms had 
the greatest proportion of Teacher-Croup and Independent-Group instruction 
at both fifth and second grade. The evidence for more attention to indivi- 

ual differences in instruction continues to favor the middle SES schools 
in mathematics as well as in reading. 

An overview of the success of instruction in these different contexts 
is available from the observer reports of the levels of target pupil 
productivity in each context. In comparing SES levels at the fifth grade, 
pupils in high SES schools had the highest levels of productivity and 
pupils in low SES classes had the lowest levels or productivity in contexts 
with the classroom as the instructional unit. The percent of gross produc- 
tive time (Table 136) for second grade pupils in the Teacher-Group context 
was uniformly high across SES levels. While the level of productivity was 
judged high in Individual contexts and in contexts where an adult other 


than the teacher directed the instruction, these contexts occurred infrequently. 


Comparisons of Time Allocation in Instructional Contexts in Reading and 


Mathematics for Urban, Suburban, and Rural Schools 


In this discussion, the data are comparable to those summarizing time 
allocation in context for schools stratified by SES level. As in the pre- 
ceeding section, the data for each context include the mean, median and 
range of time. Time is reported for each context in terms of the number 
of minutes, the number of productive minutes, the mean percent total 


minutes, the mean percent productive minutes, the mean percent gross time, 


392 


and the mean percent gross productive time. As before, the computation of 
proportion of time which was productive was based only on classrooms in 
which time was allocated in a particular context. When teachers did not 
use a context, time data from their classrooms were not included in the 
productivity computations. 

Tables 143 through 154 describe the time allocation variables for 
reading instruction. With the exception of rural fifth grade classrooms, 
time spent in Independent-Group contexts in reading ranked highest across 
grade level and location (Tables 143 and 149). Independent-Group work 
in reading is probably accompanied by some time spent in Teacher-Group 
instruction. If reading instruction is actually organized by group, the 
s .cond ranked time in context should then be the Teacher-Group setting. 
This was the case in reading for all the classrooms at second grade and 
true also for the urban fifth grade. A different pattern occurred for 
the suburban and rural fifth grade. In the suburban stratification, 
Independent-Group and Teacher-Class contexts ranked first and second in 
mean time allocation, and in rural, Independent-Class and Independent- 
Group were in first and second order. The extent of organization or 
reading instruction by groups was reflected also by the total percent of 
time spent in the two group contexts (Tables 145 and 151). Teacher- 


Group and Independent-Group instruction occupied two-thirds of the time 


in the second and fifth grade urban classrooms, about 60 percent of the 


time in second grade suburban and rural classrooms, and only about 40 
percent of the time in the fifth grade suburban and rural schools. The 
largest proportion of time spent in instruction of the class as a unit was 
in the fifth grade suburban and rural classrooms. 

For these two groups, from 43 to 53 percent of class time was devoted 


to instruction in which pupils were working with the class as a unit where 


303 


00°L -9 


00°*TT-0 


00°-2S-0 
00° TZ-0 
00°€7-0 
00°S7-0 


00°S 
00°? -0 00°€ 
00°772-0 00°62 


00° 9€-C 00° Z0T-0 
00° -9 00°72 
00°0%-€ 00°22 
00°*77-0 00°SS 
00°SZ-0 00°TZ 
00°ZT-0 00°S9 


43sea] 


TenpFAtpul-yv 


dno15-y 
SSBTO-V 


TenprAtpuy—] 
TenpyATput—-L 


dno1i9-] 
dno19-] 
sseT)-I 
Ss®TO-1L 


a3uery 


UBT POW 
9=N 


asuey  ueTpoW X asuey = uet pay 


ZT=N ueqanqns IZ=N 


-uof eso] ITydeiaBo0ay Aq peTtsT3ezqas swmooiAsseT) 
-Zuypeesy B8uting s3xequo) ut jueds Aeg iteg 
Juepnis ieg saqnutW jo Jequny uray 


€9T 9T9PL 


00°9 -0 


00°O0T-0 


00°67-0 
00°6T-0 
00° 7T-0 


00°2 -0 
00°0z-0 


00°*0£€-0 
00°€ -0 
00°672-£ 
00°62-0 
00°€2-0 


00° 
8s° 
c7°S 
00° 
8S°y 
0S* 
(9°9T 
{t*ct 
f6°E 


00°T -0 
00°z -0 
00°SZ-0 


00°7Z-0 
00°2 -0 
00°TS-0 
00°0t-0 
00°8T-0 


43seL 
TenpFAtpul-Vv 
dno1i9-y 
sseT)-V 
TenpFAtpul-T 
TenpTAtpuyt—-L 
dno15-1I 
dno1i9-] 
sseTo-1 


00°Zt-0 00° 7T-0 c6°E 00° 79-0 sseTO-1 


asuey ue T Pe asuey ueT PEW X o8uey ueT pa X 


9=N ZI=N ueqingns TZ=N  ueain 


@ advo 
-uoT eBI07] ITydeaBoey Aq paeTsTIePIAg swooiASsse[H 
-Suppeeay 8uyang s3xequog uy quads Aeg 138g 
quapnjs Jag seqnNuTW_ eATIONporag JequNN uPeW 


97T 9T9PL 


00°TT 00°T -O S0° 80° 00°9 ST’ 389] 

00° 00°Z -0 OS° 0S*T 00°Z TenpFAtpul-v 
00°02 OO°Z9-0 00°C §=SZ°TT 00°94 08° dnoip-y 

00° 00° 00° 00° SstTO-V 
we sO: OF on toe. Sie. 22'S 00°€9 tc’ TenpFATput-] 

00° OO"i “0. CE’ ct 00°T ¢0° TenpFATpul~-L 
00°8S -0 OS*Z4 OO°L9-S OO°VE ZH7°SE 00°72 OS*LZ dno1ip-] 
00°87 -0 00°92 OO°SS-O0 OS°ZZ £E€°EZ OO0°OO0T-O €9°LZ dno1ip-J 
0O°cE -0 OS*T 00°€7-0 OS’ LT°9 OO*8E -0 6° SsseTO-1 
00°00T-0 00°9 OO've-O OFC  26°% 00°00T-O 61°Z sS®TO-L 


a8uey ue T pep asuey ueT pen X aBuey ueT peW 


9=N ZT=N ueqingns IZ=N 


@ advasd 
-uoT3eI07] DFyderzBoe5y Aq paTtyT3ezqs swmooijasseT{y) 
-S8uTpesy Buting sjxequog uz yuedsg Aeg iteg 
quepnis iteg seqnutW TeIO]L Jused1eg uPeYW 


SVT 9T98L 


“” 
i 9] 
N 


T 00°92 O0°9C . T 00°” 00° T 00°2 00°2 ase] 

T 00° 00° 9 00°S7-8 os*Sst OO°9T € 00°t2 -8 SL£°LT OO°LT TENpPFATPUI-V 

, Ott OSs°sT SZ°LT | 9 OO°T9-9T 00°77 OS*6E ¢ 00°S8 -2T OS*ZE O0°6E dnoi9g-v 

0 Pos 0 SSPT)-V 

Cc | 7 00°2i-8 00°09 Sc°TY 8 00°Sf-~% oS°02 €9°9Z TeRNpPFAFpUI~-TI 

0 3 O0°SZ-OT Sz°TZ 00°02 ~ 00°9T -8 OO°ZT OO°?CT TenpyAFpul~-L tt 
S  OO°Ce -3c 62°6s.: 09 CS | ol 00°68-SZ OS°7S EE*ES 8T 00°TS -2 0S°09 82°¢s dnoig-T ae) 
S 00°00T-09 00°42 O00°8Z TT OO°T6-ST Sz°¥sS SS‘tS 0Z 00°00T-*# os*éy os'cs dnoip-L "7 
Z 00°99 -8T 00°27 00°27 | 7 00°S6-OT 00°67 SZ°OS , oOcs -t 00°s8e O0°TY sseTo-1 

€ 0OO°Ts -8 CL£°S” €€°S*Y | S 00°62-7Z SL°EY O08°9% ¢ 00°46 -9T 00°O0L 02°79 sseTo-1 

N asuey ue T pep X N asuey ue T pe X | N asuey ueT pon X 

ee Q9=N TeANY 2 apps CT=N UueBqanqns Genes TZ7=N UPqIn 


@ aavad 
—~uof e007] oftydeaZo0ay Aq patsy ze1yg swuooisseT[D 


_~ ButTpeey Buying sqxeqQuoD ut queds Aeq deg 
juapnys Asxg sa NuTPW eATIONpOAg WUsII9g UPIW 


97T 9TIFL 


00°09 
00°74 
00°ZE 
00 *Q0T-0 


00°2 -0 
00°6%-0 


00° T8-0 
00°Z -0 
00°09-9 
00°0S-0 
00°*7%7-0 
00°*272-0 


00°8 
00°2 
00°9% 


00°68 
00°2 
00°72 
00°OOT 
00°” 
00°00T-0 


Ise] 
TenpFATpul-Vv 
dno15-y 
sseTo-V 
TenpFAFtput—-] 
TenpFAFpul-L 
dno1i5-] 
dno15-] 
sseTo-I 
sseTo-1 


as8uey 


UBT PEK 


9=N 


asuey ueT pe, 


ZI=N  ueqangns 


aB8uey ue T PEW 


T@=N 


—uofT e007] 2TYyderaBoey Aq peTsT els swooisseT)D 
-SuyTpeey Buying s3xequoj uz queds Aeg Jeg 
Juepnjs Jeg eWT] SSOly qUua.Ieg UPeW 


00°48 00°28 
00°00T 00*OOT 
00°78 OS*SZ 


00°€e 
OO*OUT-SS 0S°726 
00°86 -£L O0S°28 


00°ZT 00°ZT | se] 
00°OOT-SL  SL°€6 L9°T6 | TRMPTATPUI-V 
00°S8 -S9 OS*IZ O00°EL dnoig-y 
sseto-V 

00°76 -0S 00°6L ET*9L | TENPFATPUI-I 
00°00T 00°00T| TENPFATPUI-L 

00°86 -ZI 00°EL 22°99 | dnoi9-1 
00"00T-6 00°S8 S6°EL | dnoz9-], 
00°00T-€ 05°69 0S*09 | sseT)-1 
00°86 -ZL OS*T6 08°88 SSP19-1 


ed 


OO0°OOT-ZS O00°E8 
OO*OOT-0S 06°28 
OO°OOT-€9 OS*8Z 
OO*UOT-OL 00°06 
00°66 -49 CO°T6 
00°96 -€Z SZ°L8 


oR eo ae a SS 


00°76 -7S SL°6L 
OO*OOT-€8 S72°96 
00°S8 -T9 O0°EL 
0O0°O00T-z8 O00°T6 


vw 6 2B aw 64. oa eS 


T 
7 
S 


asuey ue TPeW N asuey ue TpeW N asuey ue T POW X 
TenqoV Tenqoy TenIoy < 
Q=N TeANY TIaN UBqaNqns T7=N Ueqin 


@ aavad 
-uof eso} DFydez8o0ey Aq peTtzT3ei1Isg swmooASSeT) 
-SutTpesy Zuting s}xeqU0) UT queds Aeg ied 
quapnjs 1teq eUT]L eAFIONpOAg SSOip JUsdIed UPEW 


87T FTYPL 


00°t£-0 


00°€7-0 
00°02-0 
00°S9-0 
00°St-0 


00°*TE-0 


00°0€-0 
Co°T -0 
00°€S-0 
00° 7€-0 
00°TS-O 
00°08-0 


00°8T-0 


00°07-0 


00°6£-0 
00°z -0 
00°09-0 
00°07-0 
00°0S-0 
00°8T-0 


Isa] 


TenprATpul-y 


dnoi9-y 
ssPTO-V 


TenpFATpuy—] 
TenpTATput—-] 


dnoi95-] 


dno1i9-] 


SSPTD-] 
SSPT)-] 


asuey 


ue tT pen 


€T=N 


osuey 


UeTPEW xX 


€T=N 


ueqgingns 


asuey 


uet pen 


77=N 


-uoft e907 DTYyderzBo0ey Aq petjfIeIIS swooisseT) 


¢ adavad 


-SuTpeey Butang s3xequUoD ut jueds Aeg 4tseg 
quepnys Jeg seqnuTW jo Jequny uPrey 


67T 9T4PL 


00°27-0 


00°87-0 
00°8T-0 
00°€S-0 
00°7€-0 


00° 
70° 
00° 
00° 
te 
00° 
OS"é 
hs 
0S *OT 
76° 


80°? 
00° 

S38 °Oor 
sT’s 
cs*et 
Te°” 


00°9Z-0 


00°6T-0 


00°87-0 
00°2£¢-0 
00°0%-0 
00°92-0 


00° 
00° 
80°T 
00° 
cc" 
00° 
00°TT 
00°t 
GL‘t 
6c 'T 


00*ST-O 


00°2T-O 


00°9Z-0 
00°c -0 
00°9%7-0 
00°0%-0 
00°0£-0 
0G°7T-0 


a 
00° 
iz° 
00° 
os° 
70° 
00°EeT 
OS*cT 
9¢° 
06° 


Ise] 
TenpTAFpul-V 
dno19-yV 
sseTo-V 
TenpFATpul—-I 
TenpFAFpul-L 


dno1i5-I 


dno1i9-] 
sset)-I 
SSPT)-L 


asuey ue T POW X asuey 


ueTPpeW  asuey ue T pe 


€T=N TeANY €T=N ueqanqns 9Z=N ueqin 


¢ aqvad 
-uoyz eso] DTydes80e5 Aq patsTIeAIs SwWooASSeT)) 
- Sup peay Buzang s3}xeqUo0D UT queds Aeq tag 
quapnjs Jeg se ynuTW sAFIONpoOAg JequUNN UBeW 


OST 9T9PL 


00° 00° 00°0S 60°T Isa] 

00° 00° TeENpFATpul-y 

00° OO°€E-0 BET 00°€E *T dnoi9-y 

00° 00° 00° SSP{)-V 

00°€9 €9°Z 00°SS-O 88°T 00°TS OL° TenpTATpuy-] 
00° 00°Z -0 980° 00°Z T° TeENpTAT pul -] 

OO°E8 -0 OS*vE 00°S6-0 Sz°lz 00°68 00°€4 dno19-] 
00°6Z -0 00°4 00°ZE-0 SZ°9 00°29 SZ°6Z dno19-] 
00°00T-O O00°LE 00°S6-0 SZ°9T 00°OOT-0 12°¢ SSET)-] 
00°Z? -0 62°4 00°08-0 1°Z 00°"S -O O8°T SSPT)-] 


asuey ueTpeW ssuey  ueTpew X . ssuey  ueTpey 


€T=N €T=N Ueqanqgns 9Z=N 


¢ aqvas 
-uoT eD07 DTydea8o0ey Aq petjsTIeiys swooisseT5 


-“SutTpesy Buying s3xeqQuoD ut queds Aeg it3eg 
quepnis Jeg sej{nuTW TeIO] Aused1eg uPeW 


TST 9T9PL 


~ CC eS 2 So SS. 6S 


00°88 - 
00°86 - 


LT 
6 


00°O00T-*T 
00°O00T-¥T 


00°78 


00°S9 
GZ° 69 
00°09 
¢l°c8 


46 eo ~~ @& 4 @ CO aH OC OC 


00°8S-Z 


00°€6-ZE 
00°8S-9E 
00°06-ZT 
00°S6-0€ 


00°0S 


0S *TZ 
00°t 

00° 6S 
G7°S4 
00°29 
00°*TZ 


8T 
02 
OT 
6 


00°77 -8Z 


00°29 -9T 


00°96 -SZz 
00°00T-*T 
00°26 -S 
00°68 -6 


00°74 


00°SE 


0S°92 
00°SZ 
OS°TZ 
00°79 
OS *9t 
G7 °6% 


N 
Ten.oy 


asuey 


u 


€T=N 


eTPeh 


yeany 


N 
Ten.oy 


aZuey 


ue T PeW 


ueqgangns 


N 
Tenqoy 


asuey 


UBT peK 


yZ=N ueqin 


3se] 
TenpTATpul-V 
dno1i9-y 


ss®To-V 
TenpFAFpul- I 
TenpFATpul-L 
dno1i9-]I 


dno15-], 
sseTo-1 


sseTO-L 


¢ aavad 


- uoT}eD07] DTydeaZoey Aq petsTIezIs swuooisseT) 
- But pesy Buting s3xeqQUOoy) Ut queds Aeqg ied 
quapnjs tag SeqNuTW eAFIOMpoOig JUsIIeg UAW 


7ST PT9PL 


00° 00° 00° 00° 00°77 -0 96° €8°T 3890] 


00°z -0 80° 6T° 00° 00° 00° 00° TENPTATPul-y 

00° 00° 00°9€-0 OS'T LL°C Gott -8 SE°T €9°Z dno19-y 

00° 00° 00° 00° 00°° 00° Ssel)-V 

vo'z9 -0 8S°Z LLY 90°L9-0 9S°I 6€°IT 00°TS -0 OZ° 70° TENPTAFpuy-] 

00° 00° 00°T -0 40° 80° 00°L -0 ST’ 62° TeNpFATpuI-] 

oo*°€s -O OO*SE SB8°TE 00°S6-0 SZ°OE S8°O0E 00°98 -0 OO°T” 88°6€ dno1ip-] 

00°8Z -O O0°S 726°6 00°8€-0 SZ°9 9Y°IT 00°29 -O 0S°6Z 00°8Z dnoig-] 

OO°OOT-O0 SZ°SE LL°4¥ 00°76-0 OS°9T TE*9Z OO°OOT-O0 67°4 96°4T sseTo-I 

00°Iy -0 6Z2°% 79°8 00°08-0 “S*Z g0°LT OO°IS -0 OIT'Z Z4°g SsPT)-] 

a : 
asuey  uetpep 3 asuey  uetpew x asuey  uetTpey x oD 
€T=N Teany €T=N UuePqingns 4Z=N ueqin 
vA 
7 
¢ aqvadd 


-uoT e071 ®Ztyde1zZo0ey Aq peTsT3eisqysg swmooisseT[y 
-Zuppeey Butang sxe quoD uzt jueds Aeg Jag 
quepnis 189g ewe] sso1r5 quedieg uray 


€ST 9T9PL 


oO 
Ov 
N 


00°98 00°98 382] 
TeNpTATpul-y 

00°€8 | 00°S8 -TZ 00°8Z 00°8Z | dno19-y 

: SssBelO-V 

00°O0T-€9 00°9Z : 00°46 -L9 OS*T6 SZ°98  TeNpFATpur-] 
00°0S : 00°OOT 00°00T TeNPTATPUI-L 

00°06 -”S 00°TL 00°S6 -0S 0S°9L 96°9L dno19-] 
OO'OOT-SE SL°Z8 0O°OOT-0S $L°88 OL'h8 dno19-1 
00°OOT-"€ 0S°SL 00°26 -OT OS*T9 OZ°6S SSPT)-1 
00°S6 -€L 05°06 00°O0T-S9 0S*88 72°S8 ss¥T)-1 


00°28 


00°76 -T9 OS°9Z 
00°O0OT-06 00°76 
00°O0OT-62 00°28 
00° OOT-€9 S2°76 


0 
T 
0 
0 
T 
0 
8 
l 
0 
S 


oo © =m 2: #+ FF ©: &«. © © 


N asuey Ue TPA N asuey ue yt pan N asuey ue Tt paW X 
TenIoy Tenqoy TenIoy 
€T=N TeaANY €T=N ueqingns %Z=N ueqin 


¢ aqvad 
-uof B07] ITyudeiZ0ay Aq patjy 3e1zqs swooisseTo 
-S8utpeey Buying s3xequoy ut quads Aeg 13g 
quapnjas Jaq eWT] PATIONpOIAg ssoiyH Juadiag uvaW 


9ST 9T9PL 


the assignment and expectancies were presumably the same for all class 


members. The uniformity of context which we are inferring from these data 


for suburban fifth graders needs to be contrasted with the fact that, on 


the -verage, 12 percent of their class time in reading was spent in Inde- 
pendent-Individual contexts--a higher proportion of time than was evident 
in the urban and rural fifth grade classrooms. 

The reader will recall that the incidence of individual contexts 
reported in conjunction with pupil events was higher at the second grade 
suburban level. The time data confirm this finding in that the second 
grade suburban classrooms had the highest percent of time in individual 
contexts by school location. In addition more time was allocated to in- 
struction by teacher-aides as the Adult-Group context information shows. 

When instruction was administered by the teacher, as in the T-Class 
and T-Group contexts, the level of productivity as expressed by the percent 
of gross productive time (Tables 148 and 154) was higher regardless of 
location and grade level. Productivity levels in second grade reading 
were relatively uniform across contexts, but productivity was lower in the 
independent contexts, especially for the urban and rural classrooms. The 
poorest levels of observed productivity in fifth grade were again the 
Independent-Class and Independent-Group contexts even though these contexts 
accounted for a large proportion of time allocation in reading. 

When one examines the tables reporting the time data (Tables 155 
through 166), it is apparent that the schools vary considerably by location 
with respect to the organization Jf instruction in mathematics. In second 
grade, Teacher-Class instruction occupied more time than any other instruc- 


tional context in all locations. Urban classrooms at fifth grade were 


organized overall to distribute roughly equivalent amounts of time to the 
several contexts, but Teacher-Class instruction again predominated. In 
the suburban and rural classrooms at fifth grade, the Independent-Class 
context was most common, followed by Teacher-Class instruction. In rural 
classrooms at the second grade level, 85 percent of the instructional time 
in mathematics was spent in Teacher-Class and Independent-Class instruc- 
tion (Table 157). Suburban second grade classrooms ranked lowest with 
respect to amount of time devoted to instruction by class, but fifth grade 
suburban classrooms spent more time than either urban or rural fifth grade 


classes in these contexts. It is of some interest that time in the sub- 


urban classes at second grade was divided almost equally between group and 


class instruction, but that in these same schools at fifth grade, only a 
small portion of mathematics time was devoted to group instruction (Tables 
155 and 161). 

Mathematics instruction in the rural schools was carried on in indivi- 
dual contexts in only a few classes. Only three classes from urban and 
suburban settings reported time in individual contexts and a similarly 
small number of classes had instruction by an adult other than the teacher. 
These data along with those reported previously permit the inference 
that only a minimal amount of instruction in mathematics can be considered 
individualized, at least based on these time allocation data. While one 
might expect that individual instruction would produce more interest on 
the part of the pupils and consequently greater evidence of productivity, 
the time data do not support such an assumption (Tables 158, 160, 164 
and 166). Productivity was very often as great or greater in Teacher- 


Class instruction regardless of grade level or location. 


00°” -0 


00°T -0 


00° TT-0 
00°€ -0 
00°*2Z-0 
00°0S-8 


00° 
00° 
cZ° 
00° 
OT* 
00° 
00°T 
0S* 
00°8 
00°9T 


00° 
00° 
Stk 
00° 
i 
00° 
te 4 
£8" 
L9°TT 
0S*0Z 


00°6 -0 TH" | 00° 
00° 00°€ -0 
00°0T-0 0s” 00°9 -0 8T° 
00° 00° 
00°0€-0 €8° 00°€T-0 60° 
00° 00° 
00°€Z-0 OS‘'OT 00°”E-0 0S°2 
00°07-0 00°F OO°€E-0 9€° 
00°ZT-0 00°F 00°8Z7-0 9n°T 
00°9%-0 00°L 00°S¥-0 O0S*zT 


asuey 


ue T pe 
9=N 


X 


yeany 


asuey uet pen 4 aZuey ue T pay 


ZI=N ueqangns 61=N 


3sea] 
TenpFAFpul-Vv 
dno15-y 
SSPT9-V 
TenpTATpuy—] 
TenpFAtpul-L 
dno1i95-[I 
dno1i5-] 
sseTO-1 
SSPTO-1 


Z aqvad 
-uot zBI071 DTYUdeIBO0aeH Aq pets 3ejzIsS swooisseTy) 
-~SOTIeWaYyIeW Butang syxequoD ut yueds Aeg 13g 
Juepnis Jeg seqnuTW jo Azequnn uPeYy 


SST ®T9®L 


00° 00° 00°6 0 TY" 00° 3se] 
00° 00° 00° 00°T -O 60° TenptATpul-V 
0) os° OO°OT-O €€° 00°¢ “0 2T° dno15-y 
00° 00° 00° 00° sseTo-V 
OT° & 00°77-0 19° 00°O0T-O0 60° TenpTAFpul~1 
00° 00° 00° 00° TeENpTATpul-]L 
00°6 00°T 0S°z 00°8T-0 00°8 00°LZZ7-0 SLT dno19-] 
00°€ -0 OS’ £8" 00°0Z7-0 00°€ 00°67-0 9€° dno19-] 
00°»z-0 O0°€ LT'S 00°"T-0 0S*z 00°9T-0 69° SSPT)-1 
OO*vE-S OS*Z7T LT°9T 00°T¥-0 OS°*S OO*7E-0 SZ2°6 SSPT)-1L 


asuey u® Tt pen xX . aZuey ueT paw xX aZuey 4 ueTpen 


Q=N TeINY ZI=N ueqingns 61T=N 


@ aqvud 
-uoT3B9071 OFYydeABOeD Aq peTjsT3ejIsS swmooisseTD 


-SOTIBWeYyIeBW BUTING s3xeqUOD ut Juedg Aeq Jeg 
quepnys Jeg se{nuTW eATFIONpoOIg AequNN uPeW 


9ST 9T9PL 


00° 00°0€-0 ysa] 
00° 00°2 -0 ; 00°S -0 TenpTATpuy-y 
00°Z 00°*%€-0 00°02 -0 dno1ip-y 
00° sseTo-V 
O° 00°8%-0 00°72 -0 TeNpFAFpuy~T 
00° 00°T -0 00°OT -0 TenprATput-] 
OO°ZLE 0S*Z 00°29-0 00°72 -0 dnoip-] 
00°6 OS*T 00°S%-0 00° 00T-0 dnoip-J], 
00°29 00°9T 00°9€-0 00°89 -0 sseTo-I 
OO°OOT-6T O00°SS 00°62-0 00°00T-0 sseTo-1 


aZuey ueT pay asuey ue tT pep o3uey ueT pen 


9=N ZI=N ueqanqns 6T=N 


@ aaqvusd 
-uof e077 DTyderZo0aeyH Aq poets 3eizqs swooisseTy) 
-SOTIeMsYyIeW Buying s3yxequoy) uz juads Aeg jag 
quepnys Aeq Sa InuTW Teo] Jusd19g uPey 


LST 9TQPL 


00° LT 


00°LT 


OO°8E-LT SL°2Z 
OO°ZT-Z OO°OT 
00°68-02 O0S°0S 
00°S6-92 O00°SZL 


0 
0 
0 
0 
T 
0 
€ 
€ 
7 
9 


00°0S-8 


00°0%~-%T 


00°L8~-2 

00°S8-€72 
00°€2-92 
00°S6-ST 


oo @2 A Ft OO CO OM AS 


00°74 
00°8 
0O°TE 


OO°TT-OT Sz‘OT 
OO*ST-8 OS‘*TT 


00°O€ 
00°LT 
G2 °6% 
00°64 
00°9€ 
0S°S9 


00°0¢@-7 O0°ST 


00°O8-OT OS*TS 
OO°S8-€ OS°8E 
00°S6-9 OS°E€9 
00°88-92 Sz°L9 


A 6. 6 of oe a NA So 


N a8uey ueT pe 
Tenqoy 
9=N 


N asuey 
Ten oy 


ue Tt pen X N esuey ueT pe 
| Ten oy 
cT=N = weqangns 6T#=N 


3829] 
TenpFATpul-V 
dno15-y 
ssBtTO-V 
TenpFAtpuyt~-] 
TenpFAFpul-1 
dno19-] 
dno19-] 
sset)-I 
SSPT)-L 


@ aqdvad 


- uot ev07] otydes80e5H Aq patsf 3ezys swooissety 
-SI}T IewWeyIeW Buyang syxequoy) uz jueds Aeg jag 
quepnjas 439g seq{nutW_ PATIONpOAg Jusd1eg uPAW 


8ST 9T9PL 


00° 00°SZ-0 YI'T 00° 00° : 3s9] 
00° 00°T -0 S0° | 00°Z ee TeNPTATpul-y 
00°€E-0 O00°T 00°6T -0 88° 6n°T dnoi9-y 

00° 00° ae sseT)-V 

09° 00°67-0 €8°Z 0O°8E -0 982° 00°y | TENPTATpul-] 

00° 0O°T -O S0° 0O°'T -0 €0° SO" TENPTAFpUL-] 
00°82 ose 00°69-0 00°SZ 00°92 -0 S$Z°S I2°TZ dnoi9-] 
00°ST 00°T 00°"-0 OS*9 00°00T-0 €Z° LE*9T dno19-] 
00°89 00°02 00°T?-0 O00°Z 00°69 -9 8€°% 79°ZT sse{)-I 
00°O00T-0Z 05°94 00°98-0 0S°0Z OO°OOT-0 SL°6E Zy°ty | sseT)-L 


asuey ueT POW asuey ueT pon asuey ueyT pon xX 


Q=N ZI=N ueqingns 6T=N ueqin 


@ aqvas 
-—uoft es07] DTyder30ay Aq pest 3ejzys swooisseT) 
— SIF ewWeyJeW Butang syxequog uz quads Aeq tag 
Wvspnqsg Aeq sWT] ssoryg Jusacd1sg uPay 


6ST 9T9PL 


00°O00T 00°O0T Se] 
00°00T O00°OOT OO*OOT-ZS S$2°Ts TenpFAFpul~-Vv 
00°00T 00°OOT 00°08 -SZ OS*ZZ dnoig-y 
SSP1)-V 
oo°es8 -62 OS°08 9°08 00°Sss -29 OS‘9Z TenpFAFput~1 

00°O0T 00°OOT TenpFAFpul~-L 
00°68 -8% OS°62 68°%Z OO*OOT-O€ O0S°6Z dno1i9-1 
OO°OOT-T8 00°86 88°76 OO°OOT-9€ OS°L9 dnoi9-] 
00°66 -SS OO°TL O00°?Z 00°S6 -7€ 00°62 sseTo-I 
00°66 -€9 O0S°06 00°28 00°T6 -SS £€9°9Z ssPTO-L 


00°O00T 00°O00T 


00°O00T 00°O0T 


OO°OOT-8S 00°08 9°62 
OO°OOT-08 O00°S6 ££ °L6 
OO°OOT-€€ O0°6L SLL 
00°S6 -09 OS*08 O0S°6Z 


Oo .6: 6. fo 4... ©. St A 


N aszuey ueT POW N aZzuey ueTpPeaN aZuey ueTpeW 
Ten.oy Tenq.oy Tenqoy 
Q=N TeAnNy ZI=N Uueqgiangns 6T=N ueqin 


@ advad 
- uotzeI07] DTudelaBoaeyH Aq patsT3ezys swooiasse Ty) 
—so}T JewseyIeW Butang s3xaquOD ut quedsg Aeq Jag 
quepnis teg ewt] xATIONpoOAg ssoiH JusdIeg uPB_ 


O9T 9T9FL 


00°T Z0° 389] 
70° 00° 00° 00°T ZO" TeNpTAytpul-y 
70° 00° 00° 00°T z0° dnoij-y 
00° 00° 00° 00°04-0 SSPT)-V 
00° N°LT-0 ©» YT°T 8L°Z 00°Y -0 OT" TeNpTATpul-] 
00° 00°T -O 90° 8 hg 00° TeENpFAT pul ~] 

00°Z7S-0 SZ°S 00°Z2-0 §Oz'T "7° OO°LE-O OS‘ET dno1p-] 

O0O°8T-O 965° 00°2 <0. -9T° €€° 00°47-0 00°Z dnoip-], 

00°S?-O0 00°6T 00°8S-0 $7°9Z €€°47Z 0O°Z7-0 §= SZ'T SseT)-I 

00°0-0 OS*Z 00°Z7-0 O0°ET 94° 9T 00°0S-0 0S‘OT SSB )-L 


asuey ueT po asuey ueT Peay X asuey ue T PeW 


7T=N 6=N  ueqingns ZZ=N 


¢ advusd 
-uUOFIBI07T DTYUdeABOaeH Aq pats e1ys swooisseTD 
—soT eMeyIeW Buying syxequoyg uz quedsg Aeg tag 
quepnis ieg saqnutW jo itequny ues, 


TOT PTIPL 


ea 
oO 
“oy 


oo°s: “St: ay GO'9 “0 Get 72°C 00°T -0O z0° Nae 
0O°t =O 9G L0° 00° 00° 00°*T -0 z0° ¢0° 
oct 3. 7E L0° 00° 00° 00°T -0 c0° ¢0° 
00° 00° 00° 00° OO°Tt-0 Of: c0°2 
00° 00° OO°ET-O £€9° 8L°T 00° 00° 
00° 00° 00° 00° 00° 00° 
00°SY-0 SZ2°? L0°6 0O°8T-O 08° 82° 00°8Z-0 OO°TT T6°6 
OO £t-0. a €6°C os we SE 9 00°TZ-O0 OS*9 A ar 4 
00°0€-O OS*Z2T 98°TT 00°0%7-0 Gz*eT IT°ST OO'st-O . Set T6°9 
OO*ee-O OS*9 79°8 OO°€E-O $2°6 co °eT OO°€E-O 00°8 T?7°OT 
asuey ueTpeW xX osuey ueT pen x asuey ue tT peN xX 
7T=N Teany 6=N UuRqingns tZ7=N = URBAN) 


qysea] 
TenpFAy pul -V 
dno1i9-y 
sseTo-V 
TenpFATput-]T 
TenpFAFpul-L 
dno19-]I 
dno19-]L 
sseT)-I 
sseTO-1 


G AdVvaD 


-uoy e077 ITYdeaso0ay Aq patsT Ieaqys swooijsseTyD 
-SO}TJeWaYyIeW BSuyang syzxaquoy ut queds Aeq 139g 
quapnys jaagq sa ynuTW eATIONpoAg Jo Asquny uray 


COT PT9IPL 


320 


00°78 
00°€4 
00°OOT 
00°08 


00° 
00° 
00° 
OS**#7T 
6 °T 
00°24 
OS*YT 


00°0%7-0 


00°0S-0 


00°7S-0 
00°€ -0 
00° 96-0 
00° T8-0 


00° 
00° 
00° 
67°47 
00° 
07°2 
67° 
S2°T? 
00°%2 


00°2 
00°T 
00°T 
00°€Z 
00°OT 
00°T 
00°S9 
00°6S 
00°€8 
00° 00T-0O 


¢0° 
Z0° 
z0° 
S6°T 
0c* 
z0° 
OS*2Z 
00°ST 
He 
00°€Z 


asuey 


uey pen 


YT=N 


asuey 


ueTpeW 


6=N ueqanqns 


-? asuey 


ueTpeW 


c7=N 


qse] 
TenpTAt pul -v 
dno19-y 
sseTO-V 
TenpFAFpuy—-] 
TenpFAFpul-L 
dno15-] 
dnoi9-] 
sse®TO-1 
sseTO-L 


¢ aadvad 


- uot eo07 ITudeaZo0eay Aq petst3aeizqsg swooisse{y) 
- SOTIewsey.e_ Buypang sqzxeqUOD uf jueds Aeg Jt3eg 
quepnjs Jeg seInuTW TeIO]L Jusd1eg uPeW 


€9T 9T9PL 


00°0OS ‘TT 00°02 qsa] 

00°4 TeEnpFATpul-y 

00°% dnoip-y 
00°Si-Ly 06°79 SS¥TD-V 
0O°6E-ET 00°92 00°T TeENpTAFTpul—-] 

00°T 00°9 TeNpFAFpul-L 
00°09-8T 00°04 00°98-8 os*zs dno1ip-I 
00°Z9-E€ OS*ZE 00°Z6-0Z OS°L¥ dnoip-] 
OO°88-OT Sz‘Ts 00°46-LZ 00°€9 sse{)-1 
00°98-62 00°62 00°86-€T OS*T9 Sse )-L 


00°O0S -TZ OS*SE 
00°8 
00°¢?2 


00°28 -ZLT 00°? 
00°€6 -9% OS‘°SE 
00°28 -€€ Sl°es 
O0°OOT-€S 00°08 


oo - Aa «+ 4S. OO. Oo. 2 


N a8uey ueT PEW N aB8uey ueT pen X N aZuey ueT pen 


TenI.oy Tenqoy Tenqoy 
VI=N 6=N uweqangns 7Z=N 


¢ aqvad 
—uo}z edo] oFudeiZ0e5y Ag peTst3erzqs swuooisset{) 
-~ ST IeUeYUIeW Buyang s3zxequoy ut yueds Aeqg 13g 
quapnys Asg SsaynuTW PAT. ONpoig qusaodi1seg uPaYW 


79T 9T9FL 


00°02 -0 Os° 98°T 00°9Z-0 00°2 77°9 | 00°c <-0 $0° 60° 3S9] 
ot ss 80° T° 00° 00° : GO"< ¢0° 60° Tenprat pul -y 
Se ee 80° yt 00° 00° 0e"t:. 8 c0° ¢0° dnoip-y 
00° 00° 00° 00° 00°EL -0 09°T LL4°9 sseT9-V 
0G° 00* 00°9€-0 2 i 3 ae ee 00°OL -0 07° 79° TenpFrAt pul -] 
00° 00° 00°T -" 90° |S ot Z0* ¢0° TenpyAT put -] 
00°72 -O 00°ST €6°€Z 00°8%-0 08°? 8L°0T | 00°99 -0 0S°9Z LL°SZ dno1i9-] 
} 
00°E? -0 Lo" % 6Z°L 00° -O0 62° 9S° | @0°S9 -0 OS*€T 8°61 dno19-] 
00°00T-0O 00°€4 T2°€? 00°S6-0 SZ°9 te°cy | 00°78 -0 €6°Z €2°0Z2 SsBTO-1 
00°08 -0 00° T 00°€Z 00° T8-0 GZ°TEe ec at | 00° 00T-0 OS *EZ T7°8Z SSPTO-L 
| 
asuey ueT poy X asuey ueT PpayW X : asuey UuPT Pop X 
bI=N Teany 6=N ueqingns ZZ=N ueqin 
¢ aqvud 


tt 
© 
ina) 


- uoy7eB207] ITYydeas0ay Aq patysT3e1zIS swooissetT) 
- SoTJeWMeyIeW Suzang s3xequoyj ut quads Aeg aag 
WUSPNIS Jeg SWI] ssoig 4urxd1eqg uPeyY 


GOT eTQPL 


a8) 


32 


~~ 


305 


4 OO°OOT-€8 OS*T6 OS*T6 7 OO°OOT-92 OS°88 SZ°88 T 00°OOT 00°OOT 3sa] 
T 00°SZ O00°SZ 0 T 00°02 00°02 TenpFATpul-V 
T 00°29 00°29 0 T 00°08 00°08 dnoip-y 
0 0 c 00°82 -89 OO°EL OO0*EL sse®TO-V 
0 r4 00°82 -8€ O0°8S O00°8S T 00°%T O0O°YT TenpFATpul~T 
0 T 00°02 00°02 T 00°O00T 00°O0OT TenpFATpul-L i 
8 OO°OOT-9S OS*8L 88°82 9 OO*OOT-87 OS*2L SZ°td 9T 00°26 -9f OS*L2Z OS*SL dnoij-1 
7 00°S6 -68 00°76 00°76 4 OO°OOT-OS O0°SL O0°SZ vat OO°OOT-8S 00°62 9€°6Z dno1ip-1 
TT OO°OOT-S% OS*2L 8st? L 00°68 -O€  SL°99 62°E9 OT OO*OOT-SS OS*S8 09°28 sseTo-I 
8 OO°OOT-7S OS°TS £9°62 9 00°06 -£9 OS°78 EE°TS ST 00°86 -09 OS*ZZ 0°82 sseTO-1 
N asuey  uetTpeN X N asuey ue T pay X N asuey =: ue T pew X 
Tenqoy Ten oy Ten oy 
YT=N 8=—Teand 6=N veqanqns c7=N OU RQIAh 


¢ aqvad : 
- uot eI07] DTYydeiZ0eEeH AQ PeTJTIeAIS sw ooASSseTQ 
- SO}QewWayIeYW BuTang sqxequoyj ut jueds Aeg tag 
quapnjs 1Axeqg sWT] PATIONpoOrg sSsolAy JuUsI19eg UPS 


99T ?T9PL 


In general, these statistics contrasting average incidences of 
observation variables and time allocation measures in classrooms strati- 
fied by SES and location do show that demographic variables are related to 
differences in classroom performance. Where no SES or location differences 
exist among the observation variables, we can conclude that future research 


On teacher performance variables utilizing observation variables as mea- 


sures would not have to take into account independent factors such as the 


SES level of the school population or whether the school was located in a 


rural, suburban or urban area. 


APPENDIX C 


Factor Analysis and Factor Validity Studies 
for APPLE Observation Variables 


In Appendix C, results of factor analyses of APPLE variables for 
three major categories of the observation system are reported. Following 


the results of these analyses is presented an examination of the rela- 


tionships of the factor scores derived from the analyses to pupil outcome 


measures in reading, mathematics and attitude. 


Factor Analysis of Observational Variables 


In an effort to tease out any empirical relationships among groups of 
variables within an observational category, factor analyses were conducted 
of the pupil events, contexts, teacher activities and teacher responses by 
grade and instructional area. We recognized that a factor analysis of the 
observation variables isolated from one another into categories rather than 
analyzed together as interaction units (such as teacher activity-pupil event 
combinations or pupil event-teacher response combinations) would provide an 
incomplete picture of classroom happenings. We conducted the analyses with 
this knowledge in mind, in order to identify particular aspects of an ob- 
servational record which would support the generation of hypotheses about 
observable pupil or teacher characteristics associated with end of year 
outcomes. Utilization of factor scores derived from the analysis was depen- 
dent on the interpretability of each of the factor dimensions. If the 
variables which defined each dimension could be understood to reflect 
behavioral, management, teaching or response styles, we accepted them for 
further analysis. 

The factor analysis of pupil events produced dimensions which were 
difficult to interpret. However, the factor analyses of contexts, teacher 
activities and teacher responses provided dimensions which appeared to have 


substantial psychological meaning. Our rationale for the APPLE Observation 


310 


System is based on the belief that citations of pupil behavior in the 
absence of descriptions of the setting or the instructional behavior of the 
teacher have limited meaning. We were not surprised, therefore, that the 
factor dimensions for the pupil behavior events were difficult to interpret, 
believing as we do that the common factors accounting for the interrelation- 
ship among the pupil variables might be particular instructional contexts 


or teacher activities. For example, we found that "Direction Following" was 


positively related to incidences of "Attentiveness" in one dimension, and 


negatively related to incidences of "Attentiveness" in another dimension. 

Our notion is that the reason for this apparently conflicting result is that 
pupils can be both attentive and follow directions in contexts where teachers 
are closely in charge of the instruction, while the behavior of these same 
pupils in contexts where they are working independently of the teacher may 
evidence inattention even though they are following directions. At a 

future time we propose to conduct factor analyses of pupil behavior in 
conjunction with contexts, activities and responses in order to define 
meaningful classroom interaction units based on naturally appearing teacher- 
pupil behaviors. 

The reader is correct in wondering whether we have a sufficient ration- 
ale for using Contexts, Teacher Activities and Teacher Responses as isolated 
observation variables in factor analyses when we have considered the results 
of factor analyses of pupil variables to be incomplete when studied in 
isolation of teaching behavior. The following report of the factor analyses 
of these observational characteristics of teaching rest on the assumption 
that the way teachers organize their classroom learning experiences 


(contexts), their instructional behavior (activities) and their responses 


(teacher responses) represent stylistic differences between teachers which 
may be relatively independent of the characteristics of their pupils. The 
appropriateness of such an assumption must be tested. For the hypothesis- 
generating objective of the Phase II BTES study, we believed that we did 
have sufficient basis to assume that we could analyze teacher behavior 
independently of pupil behavior. 

Instructional contexts. The results of the factor analyses for reading 
instructional contexts for second grade and for fifth grade, clustered the 
variables in different ways. At the second grade level (Table 167) the di- 
mensions were Total Classroom Instruction, Group Instruction and Individu- 
alized Instruction, a factor which reflects the extent to which children in 
the classrooms work independently of the teacher on assignments which are 
different from those of their classmates. Each of the two dimensions for 
contexts at fifth grade (Table 168), Independent Work by Class and Teacher 
Instruction of Class were defined by a negative loading on group instruction 
variables. The first factor, Teacher-Group contexts, had a negative coeffi- 
cient while the coefficient for the Independent-Class contexts was positive. 
lndependent-Group contexts had a negative loading and Teacher-Class context 
had a positive loading on the second factor. The factor dimensions from 
the analysis of instructional contexts for mathematics were identical at 
both grades (Tables 169 and 170). They were Teacher Instruction of Class, 
Independent Work by Class and Group Instruction. 

Teacher activities. The factor analysis of teacher activities yielded 
multiple dimensions, differing between grade levels and instructional areas. 
Teacher activities associated with introducing a lesson were, however, common 


to all classroom groups (Tables 171 through 174). "Circulating" around the 


334 


Table 167 


Factor Pattern Matrix for Instructional Contexts 


in Reading -- Grade 2 


Factors 


{ 


Total 
Classroom Group | Individualized 


Contexts Instruction | Instruction | Instruction 


A - Group .06 


Class | > . | .05 


Group ho 


Individual 
Class 


Group 


Table 168 
Factor Pattern Matrix for Instructional Contexts 


in Reading -- Grade 5 


Factors 


Teacher 
Independent Instruction 
Contexts Work by Class of Class 


A - Group . 16 .08 


Class . oil 
Group 
Individual 
Class 


Group 


Table 169 
Factor Pattern Matrix for Instructional Contexts 


in Mathematics -- Grade 2 


Factors 


Teacher 
Instruction Independent Group 
Contexts of Class Work by Class Instruction 


A - Group 21 ‘ 33% 


Class ‘ ‘ 07 


Group ° ; -09 


Individual F .29 
Class . .06 


Group 


Table 170 


4 


Factor Pattern Matrix for Instructional] Contexts 


in Mathematics -- Grade 5 


Factors 


Teacher 
Independent Instruction Group 
Contexts Work by Class of Class Instruction 


Group .18 . 29 ~31 
Class ‘ .08 .08 
Group ; : . .07 
Individual . ; odk 


Class ‘ .09 


Group 


dnoay 10 

sseTD “TenpTAtpul 
yitA SuTy10mM 
SutTstAiedns 
aemsuy 9 UOT ISEeNhH 
ZuTus sty] 
SutATH uot oOnNzAYsuy 
Sutdtey 
BututTeldxy 
Sutssnostg 
Sut zeTNIATD 
TT° Buty eu 
L£0° paeog iV 
T0° yseq IV 
tt*= 00° ie 3uTASY 
Z0° ¥lS° z0° Z0° ButTiamsuy 


4 Bee ¥1S° 70°- To°- BuyzyTuesig oTwepesy 


——— —-4— —— - — ee 


sutTpeoy Trdng “BuTqepTnNoityg suosses] ynoqy uoTIINAASUT suosse] uoTstAdsadns SETIIATIOV 
03 ButueIsTy] suoftqsenth But pe oeata ynoqge suot BAT IOPASIUTUON ATayoea], 
pue 8uyyx eu -liomsuy pue laudeV], -oniqysuyl BuUTATS 

BupyoOnporzquy pue Surssnosiq 


S10 {0P8J 


Z epeay -- Buppeey ut 
SATIFATIOV AayIeal AOJ KXFAIeW uzsqqeg 10709Ry 


TZT ®T9PL 


_—* 


. 


80°- 


—: Sie 


..* 


— > 


ee 


€T° 


Be 


. 


* Bion 


TO" 


dnoiy 10 

eset) ‘TenpTATpu] 
YITA BuTy10M 
SutstTAredns 
aemsuy 9 UOT ISeNhH 
SupTue sty 
BuTATH uot IonzAsvy 
Butd{eyq 
Suyufetdxy 
ZuTssnostq 
Buy Ae[NoATy) 
Sup yoeyD 
paeog IV 
seq IV 
Sutysy 


Suy1emsuy 


SutzTuesz1ay ITwepecy 


uossa’] 


But 3eTNIATD 


uoTstAsedns 


uosse] 


STeNpTATpuy 
ao sdnoiy 


paeog je suoTy 


SeTITATIOV 


Zujtuyertdxy puy SuTonpoljzquy -oniqUuy BUuTATS 


BZuTssnostq 


PATIOPISAIUTUON Asyoea] 


But qonaqysuy 


610}39e4 


¢ epeay -- Suyppeey ut 
SETITATIOV AsyIee] AOJ XFARe_ UAIIzIeYG 10}0PY 


7ZT PTQPL 


00°- 


al 


$0° 


£0° 


See 


Z0° 


70° 


70°- 


60°- 


| a 


L0°- 


L0° 


ge 


€0° 


¥S9° 


¥£9° 


dnoiy 10 
SSPTD ‘TenpTatpuy 
Yy3TA SutTys0mM 
Sutstaredns 
Aemsuy YF UoOTIsSeNh 
SuTuseqsty 
SUTAT) uot ONAQsSU] 
Sutdtoy 
Zuyutetdxg 
SuTssnostg 
Sut Ie[NoaATD 
SuTyAIIyYD 
preog IV 
4Seq 3V 
ut ASV 
Suyiemsuy 


ButzTues1ig DTwWepe oy 


$10119 
ZututeTtdxy 
puy SuzyoeyD 


djay 104 
eTQeTTeay 


SsTtdng yt 
SsuoyT}le1e4UT 
SutTdtoy 


MeTAdYy Uy 


TTtaq Ag 
BUT IONAASLyT 


uoT}ONIAsSUT 
pe. le1TG 
AayoRey 


sweTqolig 
ynoqy suoT 3 
-Ssan) 3uTysy 


suosse] 3noqy 
suofjsenh But 
-lemsuy pur 
Sut onpozaquy 


$10}0R4 


Z @peayg -- soTIewey Ie, ut 
BeTITAPIOY AeyoRa] 1OZ xPAe_ uISIIeYG 1039Rq 


€ZT 9TQPL 


S9TITATIOY 
layoray 


319 


dnoiy 


SseTty) 


| 
¢0°- co ~ 72 *¥7S° 
70°= 80° ¥lZ° 60°- 
70° 4 bons ¥9T°- 0z° 
00° 77-= .* | 
¥8T°- Z0° ae cc 
70° 1+ Sig ¥7T°- =~ 
70" - cc * Sila Wis 
is 80°- , gg 00°- 
‘o ~ * 5 °° 
¥9€° 00°- co” 60°- 
i le 00°- ¥0Z°- = 
10°- ¥9€ ° _ 90°- 
€0° co ¢0° 00°- 
90°- i | co * * 
¢0° io | c0° oe 
OR Trang | SAT IY RUT IETHSITD | STENPTATPOT | 
But yI9q49 azo sdnoiy 
p SR PIOMTIVST 
} | | 


EEE 


suossesy] 4ynogy 


| 


—* 
¥ZlS° 
¥0S° 

suoTqsen But 


-i1amMsuy pue 
SuToONpoijaquy 


——_— > - -  - - | 


¥ 0S“ 


etc" 


sweTqoig 
qynoqy suoTt 
-senti) supysy 


8102984 


G apeiy ee 


SITIBWSYIe_ UT 


SOTITATIOY AayIea]l A9OJ XPFAQeEW uszsazqeg 1079ey 


vLT PTQPL 


dnoiy io 

sseTD “TenpyTATpul 
y3tm BuTy10M 
Sutstaiedns 
JeAsuUy QF UOTISEeNhH 
SuTue jst] 
BUTATS uoTIINAYSU] 
Sutd{eyH 
ButuyTe,[dxg 
ZutTssnostgq 
BuTIeTNIATD 
SuTyx YD 
paeog 3V 
yseq IV 
SUTASY 
SsuUTIeMsSUy 
SutTzTuesig DTwepe oy 


SaTITATIOY 
layoRrea] 


34, 


room was the teacher activity with highest loading on a second factor 
(called Circulating) which was common to second reading instruction (Table 
71) and reading and mathematics lessons at fifth grade (Tables 172 and 
74). A dimension which can be generically described Discussion was 
also defined for second grade reading and fifth grade reading and mathe- 
matics. A similar dimension which can be called Asking was present in 
the analysis of activities for second and fifth grade mathematics. In 
reading lessons at second and fifth grade there was a dimension which we 
yninteractive Supervision. Teacher Directed Instruction and Checking 
were two other dimensions for second grade teacher activities. Helping, 
Instructing by Drill and Review, and Available for Help were the additional 
factors for second grade mathematics. Instructing Groups or Individuals 
was a dimension common to fifth grade reading and mathematics. Giving 
Instruction at Board was a final factor for fifth grade reading, and At 
Desk and Checking Pupil Work exhausted the dimensions of teacher activities 
associated with fifth grade mathematics. 

In summary, the factors defining teacher activities might be described 
reflecting organizing activities which introduce the lesson, instructions 
ut the lesson, circulating around the room while pupils work, non-inter- 
ive supervision, and several additional types of instructional work with 

pupils depending on the grade level and instructional area. 

Teacher responses. Four dimensions of teacher response occurred with 

onsiderable regularity across grade level and type of instruction (Table 
75 through 178). A tendency to give No Response to pupil behavior was a 
dimension in the second grade reading and mathematics lessons and in fifth 


mathematics. A Positive Reinforcement Responses dimension was common 


except fifth grade mathematics. A Negative Reinforcement Responses 


340 


uoTIIOAT poy 
But zTusZos9y4 
co’ ButTuotT sendy 


$0 °~ osteid 


Z0° yeqpaeg eATITSOg 


a @UuON 
0z° It’- yoeqpecs7 eAtT Iesoey 
iota lea uQ SeAOK 
gt’- 0S°- Sutsousy] 
90°- ies dT 9H 
> T° "9° - suTTdposta 


2 & ¥09° cZ°- But oOnjaysuy 


sasuodsoy sesuodsay sosuodsoy sasuodsay asuodsey 
qusWedIOJUTSY yoerqpsag yoeqpeas, JUoMIaDIOJUTSY ON 
PATITSO TelzINIaN Teuotzonaqysuy BATITSOYg 
Suo0i3S 


sosuodssay 
ATsayoesy 


$1029e4 


Z apeiy -- Buypesy uf sjquaag Ttdng 02 
sasuodsay lsyoeay AOJ xTFAIeW urz9aqIeg 10725e4y 


SLT 9T9UPL 


hes 


80°- 


s0°*- 


Zoo = 


¥*7£° 


—" 


uot IAAT pay 

Butz Tusov0y 
BuTuot3send 
esteig 

ye qpseq sat ITsog 
QUON 

yoeqpseg saT eBay 
ug seAoW 

Sutiousy] 

djtay 

euTTdpostq 


But onaqsu] 


sasuodsay 
Sutdtoy 
TeuorqonayAsuy 


sosuodsay 
quowsd1OjUuTey 
BATIFSOg 


sasuodsoy 
yqoeqpec, 
Te1i3noN 


(oTwepeoy) 
sesuodsoy 
qUuoWs IO JUTOY 
DATIEBON 


(10TAPYaq) 
sosuodsay 
quemsad10jJUToY 

BAT ISZON 


$10}08g 


sesuocdsay 
lsyoray 


¢ epeig -- B8utpesy ut sjzuaaq Ttdng 03 


9LT 9TIPL 


Sasuodsay 1ayoeay 10J xFAReW uzl9zIIeYg 10}90Ry 


sa 


i At © 


UOT IIIA T psy 
BuTztTusZo0v94 
Zutuotjysenh 

asteig 

yoeqpeey eat ATsog 
QUON 

yOeqpe gy ear ieson 
ug seaaopW 

Sutiousy] 

dT 9H 

euTTdTostq 


But Jonaqsuy] 


sasuodsay 
BSutTuotqysanh 


sosuodseay 
quawad1OjJUTay 
PATIPBAN 


sasuodsay 
Suytiousy 


sasuodsay 
quausd1OJUTOY 
PAT ITSO 


asuodsay 
ON 


§10}30e4 


sosuodsay 
jasyudea] 


Z epeiy -- sot ewayuAey uy sauaaq Ttdng 03 


sasuodsey aayoray Joy xTAaqeW us9qIWweYg 10IDRY 


ZLZ1T 9T9PL 


3 Bite 


‘o> 


7 - 


Se 


90° 


00°- 


TO° 


5 Nin 


Og = 


OT* 


s0"- 


ot Bala 


si 


60°- 


z0° 


TO*- 


2 Bales 


£0° 


AS” 


Soe 


 s Bifon 


#9t °- 


ts te 


UOTJIAAT poy 

But zTusZo0.3ay 
ZuTuotTysenh 
esteig 

yoeqpeesg sat ITsoOg 
aUON 

YoReqpesy sat Ieseyn 
ug seAoy 

Buytiousy{ 

dt 

eutTTdpostq 


Buy .on1aqsuy 


sasuodsay 
quowas paTMouyoy 
Teqiea-uoN 


sasuodsay 
quawead1OjsUuTay 
TeqlaA 


sosuodsay 
BuTIIeAT pay 


asuodsay 
ON 


(10}f,AeYyag) 
sasuodsay 
quaewsed1OJuToYy 

®ATIEBZOIN 


$1029e4 


so9sucdsoy 
Aayoesy 


¢ aepery -- sot Jewey.eW ut SqueAq TTdng 03 
Sasuodsay rzayoeay AOJ xFAzeW urs Ieg 10;R0Ry 


BLT 9T9PL 


325 


dimension occurred for second grade mathematics and fifth grade reading and 
mathematics, while a Neutral Feedback Responses dimension appeared in 
second and fifth grade reading. Additional teacher response dimensions 

at second grade were Instructional Feedback Responses in reading, and 
Ignoring Responses and Questioning Responses in mathematics. There was 

an Instructional Helping Responses factor in fifth grade reading and 

three additional management dimensions in fifth grade mathematics--Redi- 
recting Responses, Verbal Reinforcement Responses and Non-verbal Acknow- 
ledgement Responses. We assigned labels to the teacher response dimensions 
on the basis of the variables which were most salient to each and attempted 
to find terms which were common to as many of the grade level and instruc- 


tional programs as possible. 


Partial Correlations of Factor Scores from the Analysis of Instructional 


Context, Teacher Activities and Teacher Responses with Reading Outcome Measures 


The data presented in the main body of this report contrasted grade 
level differences in the relationship of the observational variables to 
outcome measures. These findings lead to the expectation that the magnitudes 
and directions of correlations of the observation variable factor scores 
with outcome measures might also differ with respect to grade. 


Such differences were evident in the data 


presented in Table 179, which showed that the factor scores representing 
instruction by class were positively correlated with the decoding test at 


second grade level and negatively correlated at fifth grade level. The 


fifth grade Independent Work by Class factor was significantly correlated 


with the reading achievement outcome. This implies that reading achievement 
is facilitated when pupils work independently of the teacher. Factor scores 
of the incidence of different types of contexts reflect types of instruction- 


al organization. Few of these factor measures are correlated with reading 


348 


DTuapeoy 
TeIoL 


L0° 
¥87° 


4 oe 
4 
ty 


*8E°- 
3 Bi 


z0° 
ST° 
¥77° 


60°- 
TO° 


- 3 ies 
60° 
co= 


S8PTD) JO UoTIONAQBUT AsayoPe] 
Y2I0M SSBTD JUSpusdepuy 
SHOLOVd $ aavan 


UOTIONAASU]L PeZTTeNpTATpuy 
uot zonaysuT dnozy 

UOFIONAISUT WoOoASsSseTD TeIO] 
SYOLOVA Z@ AdVUS 


Y——"FursworAs Fu oy 
But peey 


TeIOL 
But porveq 


WOTIED TTady 


But pesy 


S{so], Buypesey - se109S [TTeq AOJ Buf To1rquoy) soerzanseay owoodjng Buyads 
YIFAM SIX9QUOD TBUOTFIONAJSU] AOJ SPIODS 102984 AlddV SALA JO SuOTIeTeII0D TeTIIeg 


6LT 9T9PL 


327 


achievement outcomes, suggesting that instructional organization per se 
is not necessarily a critical variable in predicting reading achievement. 
Among the teacher activity factors (Table 180), 
it is of interest that the factor labeled Teacher-directed Instruction 
was positively correlated with the decoding test, but negatively corre- 
lated with the California Achievement Test. This finding, and the fact that 
the Total Classroom Instruction context dimension was also positively 
correlated with the decoding test, provides confirmatory evidence that 
the extent to which teachers direct learning activities in second grade 
reading is related to pupil gain in decoding skills, but not to other 
types of reading achievement. Decoding skills may be learned best at 
this grade level from teachers who direct the learning experiences, 
while reading comprehensions skills may best be acquired in classrooms 
where teachers provide more opportunities for interacting with the 
lesson material. This explanation is further supported by the fact that 
the extent of Non-interactive Supervision is negatively correlated with 
decoding at second grade and that Discussing and Giving Instructions was 
positively correlated with the California Achievement Test. 

At fifth grade level the Giving Instructions at Board factor has a 
negative relationship to decoding skills and Circulating was negatively 
correlated with the California Achievement Test. More interactive or neu- 
tral involvement of teachers as reflected in the Discussing and Explaining 
Lesson or the Non-interactive Supervision factors appear to promote the 
general reading skills of fifth graders as the data in Table 180 indicate. 

Teacher responses. The differing relationships between teacher 
behavior and reading achievement at second and fifth grade levels are 
well-illustrated by the correlations of teacher response factor scores with 


the reading achievement outcomes measures (Table 181). The Positive 


300 


uossey] Zututetdxg 9 Butssnostqg 

Sut eTNo1ATD 

uoTSTAIedns <SATIOBASIUTUON 

uosse] Bufonpo1rjuy 

STeENPTATpuT 320 sdnoay But Aona4suy 

paeog 3e suotzoOnaysuy BuTaTy) 
SYOLOVA $ AACVvUd 


60° 61° 90°- ¥o*- 60° SuTpeay 

Ttdng 03 BufueqstT] 9 BuTyDeyD 
€0°- 0z* $0" TT°- 90°- BSupIeT NATO 
Z0°- gT° 70°- 40° "T°- SuOTISEeNt Butremsuy ¥ BuyoOnporjquy 
et*= os Bon ¥Tf* cc ¥TZ*- UOFIINAASUT pezIsIATd AsyoRay], 
€0° co°- 9I°- 80°- ¥/Z° suoftzonajysuy BuyaT) ¥ Butssnostgq 
T0° To° “IZ°- 10° TO’ uoTSTAIedNs B<ATIOBISIUTUON 
SYOLOVA Z Aqvuo 


SuTpeay Juawsaatyoy TeIOL uot eof tddy But peasy 
ITuUepeody Butpesy Sut poseq Buy pesy LV) 
TeI0OL 


S{Sel Burpeey - sa10dS [[e_q 10J Buy{TyToaquoyD se109g auodzNnO BZutads 
YUIFA SITIFATIOV AeyIBa] AOJ SAIODS 103984 AlddV SALA JO SuOTIeTeAI0D TeTI1eg 


O8T 9T9FL 


329 


OT’ > d x 
ee c0O°- 10° 80° xIZ'- sesuodssy Butd[eyH TeuotTIon1Qsu] 
86°- So°- OI'- OT’- c0°- sasuodsey JueMe.IOJUTeYy <ATITSO, 
»0°- It°- €QO°- 10°- 90°- sosuodssy yoeqpeey Tei NEN 
(2 Fwepeoy) C2 
co" 0° soe a €Il’- gasuodsay JUsMsed,IOJUTSY sATIeZEN > 
(10TAeYeg) i ) 
So° 4 6I°- 60° ot = sesuodssy Jusws.IOJUTSyY saTIeSaN 
| SUOLOVA $ AqvuD 
j 
$0" 70°- ¥1Z° s0°- | ¥97° sasuodsay 
| JUsWIIIOFUTSY SATITFSOg Buo0iqs 
9T° €0° {t’- 80° | xt sasuodssy yoeqpeey Te13NEeN 
¥Tf" OT’ 00°- ¥8Z° *x0€° sosuodsay yoeqpssg Teuot onaqsuy] 
¥77° *SZ° TT’ ¥7E ° be ee" sasuodsay JUaMaDIOJUTeY eATITSOY 
80° See 60°- OY c0° asuodsay ON 
SYOLOVA @ ACVUD 
| 
Burpeoy JUSaMaAeT YOY TeI0OL dopIesT paddy +> ippeay ee Se. hie Rg Ae mm cia: 
2TwapReoy BuTpeeay Ruy poosaq But peay LV) 
Teqo] 


yuITA Sasuodsay sayoea]l AOJ Sa102G 10}39e4 AlddV SALA JO SUOTIYTIII0) TeTPII1eg 


Ist 9TYHPL 


330 


Reinforcement factor was positively related to all of the second grade 
reading achievement measures with the exception of decoding. The instruc- 
tional Feedback Responses factor was also uniform in its positive rela- 
tionship with reading outcomes at second grade. The only type of teacher 
response factor associated with improved decoding achievement was Strong 
Positive Reinforcement Responses. The most salient of the variables in 
this factor was the teacher response "Praise". 

At the fifth grade level, only one of the Feedback factor scores appear 
to be related to reading achievement. Although the correlation was negative, 
the Instructional Helping Responses factor was significantly related to the 
CAT reading measure. This result seems to imply that teachers who need to 
provide help in reading are teachers whose lessons are too difficult or 
whose pupils need some type of instructional activity other than the one 


requiring teacher help. 


Partial Correlations of Factor Scores from the Analysis of Instructional 


Context, Teacher Activities and Teacher Responses with Mathematics Outcome 


Measures 


Instructional Contexts. The data has consistently shown that a set 


of teacher performance variables will not have the same relationship across 
instructional areas and grade levels. The differing relationships between 
context factors and mathematics achievement outcomes uphold this pattern 
(Table 182). The Independent Work by Class context factor was positively 
correlated with the second grade total mathematics outcome measure, but 
correlated negatively, though not significantly, with the mathematics 
achievement measures at fifth grade. Teacher Instruction of Class and Group 


Instruction factors had significant relationships to mathematics achievement 


OT* 


¥0Z° 
80° 
2T* 


00°- 
80° 
. 


60° 
3 Bing 
-—* 


70°- 
Ss Se 
¢0° 


TO° 
¥1TZ° 
$0" 


io = 
60° 
SC° 


uofT3onaqysuy dno1y9 

SSET) JO UOTIONIQSUL AayoPI], 

sset>) Aq 710M JUepuedepuUy 
SYOLOVA S FAVA 


uot 3onaysuy dno1iy 

ssetT) Aq y10mM JUepuedspuyT 

SB8PT) JO UOTIONAASUT AaYyove] 
SHOLOVA ¢ ACVAD 


~ SoFIeMsyIeW 
DT MapPoy 
TeIoL 


uot BOTT Tddy 
SoT IBMT Ie 


uot eynduo) 
SoTJeMSOYyIeW 


$qdanu0) 


sot JewoyIejy 


SISO] SOTIBMaYIe_ - SaIOIS [TeY{ 1OJ Buy TOAWWOD SeIOIS sWODINO Sutads 
YITM S3KEQUOD TBUOTIONAYSU] AOZ SAIOIS 103984 AlddV SALA JO SUOTIBTEIIOD TBTIAS 


cet 9T9PL 


outcomes at fifth grade, but to none of the mathematics outcomes at second. 


Teacher activities. Reference to Table 183, which presents the 


correlations of teacher activity factor scores with mathematics achievement 
outcomes, shows that few of these factors correlated with mathematics 
achievement scores at second grade. The two factor scores with significant 
findings were both correlated with the California Achievement Test Math 
Concepts. Being Available for Help to pupils as they needed it was posi- 
tively correlated with mathematics concepts, while the Helping Interactions 
with Pupils factor had a negative relationship with it. 

Five of the seven teacher activity factors for fifth grade had signi- 
ficant relationships to mathematics outcomes. Asking Questions about 
Problems, Introducing and Answering Questions about Lessons, Instructing 
Groups or Individuals, and Circulating all had significant positive corre- 
lations with one or more mathematics achievement measures. The At Desk 
factor was negatively correlated with the mathematics application test. 
These findings lead to the hypothesis that the more fifth grade teachers 
interact with pupils in mathematics instruction, the better their achieve- 
ment outcomes will be. 


Teacher responses. It seems of particular interest that an almost 


reverse pattern of the effect of teacher response on pupil outcomes occurs 
between grade levels and between reading and mathematics instruction. Table 
181 illustraced the finding that teacher feedback responses of a variety of 
types were positively related to reading achievement outcomes at second 
grade, while these responses had no relationship to reading achievement at 
fifth grade. 

Table 184 shows teacher responses in mathematics activities were not 


related to second grade achievement. On the other hand, the Verbal Reinforce- 


333 


90° 
Pilg 
lee 
60° 
¥8T* 


¥7Z° 
cTt° 


60° 
Mies 
fie 
) fe 
i 
60° 


6t* = 


SOT IeUSYyIeW 
IFuapeosy 


TPIoL 


be a 90° 
v0 = — 
a = z0°- 
60° > 
¥*77° 80° 
€0° ee 
¥07* Bite 
80° 40° 
i Bag 70 = 
SO°- Et ">= 
70° €0° 
‘C= 90° 
70°:- it- 
60°- $o°= 
uoT eoTTddy uot eB yndwo) 
SoPIeuMeyIe_ soT eweyIeyW 
LVO 


eg mel 


$jdeaou07 


SITIBWIUIER 


LV9 


uofTssnostq dnorzy io sse{9 

420m THdng BuzyxIeYD 

yseqd AV 

Buy 3eTNo1To9 

STeENPTAFpuy 20 sdnoiyn Butz 2on13svy] 
suosse]  noge 

suotjsend Butzemsuy ¥Y ZupoOnpo1zzuy 

sueTqoig 3Noqe suOoTASeNhH SsuTYAsSy 
SYOLOVA S$ ACVHO 


sio1zy Buyutetdxg yY BuTpyIeyD 

djTaH 10J eTQeTTeAY 

sttdng yam suotjoezequ] BuTdTeH 

MeTASY Y TItTz2q Aq uozf IonsIsuy] 

uoTIONAASUT pezd9ITFG AeyoRa], 

suaTqoig jnoge suoTyseng SZuyyAsSy 
uossey] 3noqge 

suoTjsenh 3utiemsuy yY BSupONporzquy 
SYOLOVA @ ACV 


S}so], sdyyewmeujeW - Se10IS [TPA 103 BuTTTOAWUOD sSeIODS sWODINO Suytads 


a 


YIFA SAFIFATIOY AVYIeV] IoOZ SA1ODS 1OIIRY Mldd¥ SALG JO SuUOTIeTeIIOD TeTIIeG 


€8t ?T9PL 


uD 


OT* 


¥SZ°~ 
i 
LS 
7. = 


i. = 


70° 
00° 
z0° 
TO" 
80° 


i 
S0° 
70° 
90*= 
OT° 


sSesuodsey JusweSpeTMouyosy Te qieA-uoN 
sesuodssy JusemedIOjsutey Teqia, 
sesuodsey But Iose1Tpey 
esuodssy on 
(20, Ae Yeg) 
sesuodsay JUeMedIOsUTEeY sATIeSaN 
SYOLOVA S ACVUD 


sesuodsey BsuTuotT sant 
Ssesuodssy JueMe.IOJUTOY eaTIeseN 
sesuodssey SutTiocusy] 
sesuodsay Jusewmed1osutey aatTaytsog 
sesuodsay on 

SYOLOVA 2@ FAV 


SITIeUMSYyIeW 
2Tuepeoy 
TeIOL 


uof eT Tddy 
SOTIewseyIe_ 


uof 3eqndwuoy 
SIT I eUEeYyI EW 
LV9D 


Sjdaou0) 
SITJewWseYyIeK 


LVO 


S3Se] SdTIeMSEYyIeW_ - S109 T[ey{ AOJ BuT{T [oO] se1i0ds au0D3NO Butads 
YIFA Sesuodsey 1syrdeal 103 S9I09S 103984 Addy SHI JO suoyz3eTaz109 TetTIzeg 


78T 2TIPL 


ment factor was positively related to fifth grade mathematics outcomes. 
Negative or neutral feedback, as reflected in the Negative Reinforcement, 
No Response, Redirecting Responses and Non-verbal Acknowledgement factors, 
was negatively correlated with fifth grade mathematics outcomes. The 

only exception was a positive correlation between the Negative Reinforce- 
ment factor and the Mathematics Application test. 

We cannot offer a definitive explanation for these differing findings 
with respect to the observational factor score variables. It can be asserted 
however, that studies which attempt to define the teacher performance 
characteristics which make a difference in pupil achievement will need to 
take into account the intervening variables of the age of the pupils being 
taught and the type of achievement objective. Teacher performance charac- 
teristics which affect achievement outcomes may, or may not, be critical 
for positive changes in pupil attitudes about school or self. Of interest 
in this regard is the extent to which performance characteristics reflected 


in these factor scores related to attitude outcomes. 


Partial Correlations of Factor Scores from the Analysis of Instructional 


Context, Teacher Activities and Teacher Responses with Attitude Outcomes 


In a review of the relationship between the factor score data and the 
attitude outcomes, it is important to keep in mind that the attitude mea- 
sures, as well as all of the other measures that we have reported, are 
based on the classroom as the unit of analysis. The partial correlations 

t the relationship between factor scores for variables based on 
observations tallied across all target pupils and the classi*om averages 
(based on all pupils) of the attitude and survey measures controlling for 


the Fall scores on these tests. In this discussion of the attitude outcomes, 


336 


the reader should keep in mind that the factor score data represent 
what is happening to the class as a group rather than what is occurring 
with individual pupils. 

Contexts. Table 185 reports the partial correlations of the context 
factor scores with the total attitude and total survey measures. None of 
the context factor scores significantly correlated with the fifth grade 
attitude measures. At second grade, we have the interesting finding 
that all of the factor scores had a negative correlation with one or 
more attitude outcomes. The reading factor, Group Instruction, was 
significantly negatively correlated with both the attitude (positive 
attitude toward reading and mathematics activities) and survey (positive 
attitude toward self) measures. The Group Instruction factor in mathematics 
lessons was also negatively related to the second grade survey measure. 

The conclusion which we can draw from these findings is that the more 
opportunity there is for pupils to demonstrate their achievement before the 
teacher and the group, the greater the chance that second grade pupils 

will view the activity and themselves in a more negative light. This 
hypothesis was supported to some extent by the positive correlation of 

the Teacher Instruction of Class mathematics factor with the survey measure, 
Suggesting the possibility that there is perhaps less risk of self- 


disclosure in a class instructional setting in mathematics than there is 


in the group setting, or than there is in a class instructional setting 


in reading. 
Teacher activities. The hypothesis that poor attitude outcomes are 
associated with teacher involvement with pupils in ways which might single 


them out, is supported somewhat by the types of teacher activity factors 


which have negative correlations with attitude outcomes in second grade. 


so*- uot oOnaysuy dnozsy | 


T° SSETD Jo UOFJONIISUT AsyIe] | €0° %T° SSPT) JO UOT IIONAQSU]T. JeyoRe] 
co°- sset7) Aq yI0M JUepuUedepuy] | 30° 60° YIOM SSP) Juepuedapuy 
SYOLOVA S ACV SYOLOVA $ FCVUS 


To*- uoTjonaysuy dnozy ST’- UOTIONAIASUT pozTTenp\yatpuy 

Z0° sseT) Aq yiom Juepusedapuy - ¥€Z°- uoTjOnNaysuy dnoay 

Ot’- SSET) JO wUoTIONAYSUT A9yIeI], ? QT*- uoT}ONAASUT SSPTD TrIO] 
SYOLOVA @ AdVaD | SYOLOVA 7 ACVAS 


ae UG REAR eet ge er SSE Fir a ae PS a ae 


AQAINS epnir3ay K@Ains epn jrt3Iqy 


} 


TeI0] TBI0]L | TeI0L 1, eI0L 


SOT IeWaUIeW 


sisal apnartijay - sa10ds [Teq AoF Bup{TTosjuog saioogs suoojng Buyads 
YIM S3XAQUOD TeUOTIONAYSUT AOJ SPI0DS 10R0"Y AlddV SALA JO SUOTIeTeAIOD TeTIIeY 


o 


Sst P(9PL 


Table 186 reports negative correlations of the teacher activity factors 


of Circulating, Helping Interaction with pupils and Available for Help 

with the total survey measure. On the other hand, Checking and Listening 
to Pupils Read, Introducing and Answering Questions, Instruction by Drill 
and Review and Checking and Explaining Errors (mathematics) were positively 
correlated with attitude and self concept. 

The relationship between teacher activity factors and attitudes at 
fifth grade support the contention that particular types of teacher acti- 
vities in reading and mathematics are conducive to the development of 
either positive or negative attitude outcomes. In fifth grade, Giving 
Instruction at Board, Introducing the Lesson, and Asking Questions about 
Problems were activities with positive relationship to attitude and survey 
outcomes. On the other hand, the Circulating and Checking Pupil Work 
factors both imply opportunities for teachers to see how well pupils are 
responding to the assignment with the resultant possibilities of some type 
of negative or positive teacher feedback. These factors were both 
negatively correlated with attitude outcome. 

Teacher responses. The correlations of teacher response factor scores 
with attitude outcomes (Table 187) shows a positive relationship between 
the factors Positive Reinforcement and Neutral Feedback in second grade 
reading and the total attitude at the end of the year. The Positive Rein- 
forcement factor in mathematics lessons, on the other hand, did not corre- 
late with total attitude, but the Negative Reinforcement factor had a very 
positive relationship to the survey measure. This high correlation between 
the Negative Reinforcement factor in mathematics and the total survey 


measure, especially since negative reinforcement was relatively uncommon 


354 


uotTssnostg dno1zy 10 sseq{o 

y10mM [Ttdng Butyoey 

48eq 3V 

ButTqeTNoATD 
STeENpPTAFpuy 

zo sdno1iy But .oOnNzAIAsSUT 
uosse] 3Noge suoTIsenh 

Buyiemsuy Y ZupoOnpolzajuy 
sus{qoig 

3noqe suot3ysenh B3uTysy 
SYOLOVA S$ ACVUS 


s1io0iiq Bututetdxg 9 BuTyeuD 
djayH 10y sTqeTTeay 
sttdng 
UITA UOFIIeISeqUL BuTdTeyH 
MeTAsy AQ TTTAg ¥Y uoTIoNAAsuy] 
UOTIONAASU] pe IeATG AseYyoRe] 
sweTqoig 
jnoqe suoTysent 3uyysy 
uossey] 3noge suotT IsenhH 
Sutiemsuy Y BupToOnporzjquy 
SHYOLOVA @ AACVAS 


apnitaaqV 
TeIOL 


- saesrerenseipnennesiaettinanbanteseeettlpeseecansastanene 


soy ewWseYIeW 


uosse] 

Sututetdxg 9» Surssnostq 

But epTNoATD 

uoTSTAIEedNS sATIOVASIUTUON 

uosse] ButToOnporzjUuy 
STeNpTATpuy 

zo sdnoiy But QoNAQsuy] 

preog 3e suotT ONAAsuT BuTraty 
SYOLOVA ¢ Faved 


Sutpeey Ttdng 
02 ButuseIstT] 9 Zupy ey 
BuTIeTNIIAT) 
suoTt sent 
ZuTiemsuy Y Buponporzjzuy 
SUOTIONAASUT pezIeATG Asya] 
suoyt IoONA su] 
ZUTATD 9 BuTSssnostq 
uoTstTAredns sat OPAS{UTUON 
SHOLOVA @ ACVUD 


———— 


TeI0L 


epnjt33zy 
TRIO] 


SuTprsy 


$ISe] epnjzyt3aay -— Se109S [Tey AJ BuryTToraquoyg saeio0ds auodjng BSutads 
UITM SOTIFATIOV Aeyreaeyl A0J SaIOIS 10398y AlddV SALI JO SUOTIBTSeII0D TeTIIeg 


98T 9T9PL 


sesuodsay 
JueMsespeTmouy oy TeqraauoN 
soesuodssy 
JUsMsDIOJUTSY Teqizs, 
Sasuodssy But .eAT psy 
esuodssay on! 
(10TaeYyeg) sasuodsay 
JUsMsDIIOTJUTSY sATIeZeN 
SYOLOVA S$ ACVUD 


sasuodssy SutuotT sand 
sesuodsoay 
qUaWsI.IOJUTOY saTAeBen 
sesuodsey Butiou3] 
sesuodsay 
JUSWIIAIOFUTSY sATITSOg 
esuodsey ON 
SYOLOVA @ ACVAS 


sosuodssay 
Sutd[ey Teuotzonaqsuy 
sesuodsay 
QUSsWS.IOJUTSY BsATITSOYg 
sesuodsey yoeqpeey TelIneN 
(9fwepesy) sesuodsay 
VUBWSDAOJUTSY sATIeSaN 
(t0FAeYyseg) sesuodssay 
JUBMSDAOJUTSY eATIeSZAN 
SYOLOVA S$ AACVUD 


sesuodssy Juss .IOJUTay 
PAFITSOgG Bu0czaqs 
sesuodsey yoeqpeey TeiineyN 
sesuodsay 
yoReqpexeq TeuoytT{onaysuy] 
sosuodsay 
¥G7* QuemMedIOJUTSeY B<ATIATSOg 
40° esuodsey oN 
SHYOLOVA Z ACV 


Spnataiy 


TBI0] 


Spnitaiy 
TeIOL 


a on ms — 


SIT J euMsUIeW 


SS wn eae fs ie ree 


yg a 


$389] apngraqy - se109S [TBA 10jJ BuT{[ Toro) saiz0dg smMod3NnO Butads 
sasuodsay Aayoray, 10j Sa109S 103987 Aldd¥ SALA JO suoTIeyTezz0D TeTIIeYg 


C8t eT9PL 


across all classrooms, suggests that teacher management by negative feed- 
back to some pupils may assist the others to self-differentiation and an 
awareness of their more positive behavior. Absence of teacher feedback, 
as reflected in the Ignoring teacher response factor in mathematics, wus 
negatively correlated with the second grade total attitude measure. 
Teacher response of some type is evidently important to pupil attitude; 
ignoring pupil behavior has potentially negative consequences for attitude 
about mathematics activities. : 

The Negative Reinforcement factors for both behavior and academic 
skills in reading both correlated negatively with attitudes of fifth 
graders. It is interesting that the Neutral Feedback and Positive 
Reinforcement factors in reading instruction had significant negative 
correlations with the survey measure. The only explanation that we can 
offer here is that the selectivity of the teachers with respect to the 
reinforcement of particular pupils affects the way children in the classroom, 
on the average, change in their self concept over the year. Even though 
reinforcement in fifth grade reading activities, whether positive, neutral 
or negative, was negatively correlated with one or the other of the 
attitude measures, the Verbal Reinforcement Responses factor in mathematics 
had a positive relationship to the total attitude measure. Nonverbal 
Acknowledgement was negatively related. 

These data reporting the results of the correlations of factor scores 
with attitude and self concept measures lead to the general conclusion that 
the fidelity of teacher reinforcement of pupil behavior and the fairness 
and consistency with which it is applied has an important relationship to 
the growth or decline of attitudes of pupils about reading and mathematics 


and their self concepts. 


364 


APPENDIX D 


Instructions for APPLE Observers in the 
Beginning Teacher Evaluation Study 


lReproduced by permission of the authors.| 


Yoservers in the 


Pvaluation otudy 


nN 


Beginning Teacher Evaluation 
observable teacher and pupil behaviors 
learning. The APPLE (Anecdotal Proccessing 

earning Experience) observation procedures which you will 
been develo by collecting natural classroom observations 
elementary school children over a 
observable pupil and teacher 
classroom observations have 
However, the kinds of be- 
observers will be recording will be 
lected in the three year longitudinal 
therefore, procedures that have been used by 
iren of the same age levels that you will 
that will be similar to those in the ori- 


ryt 
JL UE id WO 


project should have some knowledge 


sical characteristics of 


bservat 


gprades. Such 

m observation 
bservation 

teachers and 


enaviors can ied later accord- 


who have been ran- 


i 


observati Hopefully each teacher 


every child wear a name 


identified. 


Behaviors 


servati lay, about 


bservation during the 


Sult the teacher, if this information 


times when read- 


times when mathematics 


teacher desig- 


the 


and teacher behaviors 


ritute the observation 


a day, though there 


be observed. 


behavior and teacher- 


istructional 


need to note the 


reading or mathematics 


what role the teacher 


servation he t of intro- 


of a procedure 
activity, leading a lesson activity, 
sy leading a question and answer period. 
f teacher activity will be described 


dh 


reneral teacher activity, the observer will then 


f the behavior of each pupil on the list of 


each observation the mandatory information ‘for 
‘ribed later. Following this initial 
bserver will continue to make obser- 
two for each five minute period, and as 


a record as possible of the targ*t 


ad or children that 


However, we are looking especi- 


strengths or weaknesses, including oral 


r 
haw “9 


onse to questions, teacher comments, etc. 


of performance 


ions, including small 


struction 


e, or inappro- 


potentially 


familiar adults - teachers, aides, 
ther adults 


tute teacher, 


lertne 
i sti SS 


Appearance (if out of dinary, very good or very poor) 


A 


"14 ate aaacia 
sr requests { assistance 


32 you deem important. Be sure the reason for 


bservation is obvious to others; otherwise it 
shat you have recorded a trivial event. 


lavior events. Since one of the objectives 


letermine the nature of teacher-pupil inter- 
r event must be accompanied by a description 
yn we have defined a fairly 
bserved to accompany 


ive you examples of the kinds 


aus 349 


Tear i ad hahavi ry = ad ike Ly T soser ve. nowever Tea “ner responses 
i behavior you ar Likely I 
"ay nver ; iy } ad mor im _c +he Trenqncr er is An iware a T ne put Li per AVe= 
, ny J <i Wier 4 " 
sin ital + Garhi aenAnana «4; — . ve 
~ : ’ y ’ ) . + y Ps Y_OnNVE Os | resi tl o icn de Smilies 5 
’ las Ai wt Al 
" > " , + " ty #*« ‘ ] aynrecc ¥ t*y» ~] io rec 
n es, wit 1G a@& par Li ay lal ext n I l »Y Lenk ; 
, annranri at ; jar + hewae ¢ — oe 
ild a be ndicated when appropriate in rder to nav 1 complete 
: 2 >: 4n+ want 4 y ty fan a ¢ Win) | behe vi yr 
rec ae t ; , } Caches Lili? i j ti WiliCT) ZAC 4 At L J enav e 
| ia i 
r me pupil events, nowe recording a teacher response may seem 
: : ‘ia , i , , 
* + + * + ‘aru ty | +4 r * , 
it nappropriate; in these cases, the observer will simply indicate 
? we ” Lad + . +} m a + . . sme ‘+ t » 
t t ; ‘able Sr none yr by some sher statement describdin 
‘ "a" + ” . wa ’ +he tar ‘| >+y yacr nae 
t ; \ 4 € L.Ce ) 1S £20 ra i tle ,C al 1e 7 TCs VvUhlo . 
3. DA i 
t wy Taeis4 “ae Diini } Threant huite ifter rOUu 
; r pbenav r whi nh inivl ek 1X PUplL BVeNU. YULV Itven y 
‘ ae + taanrhear szavinge aeomething lv t a “hild 
r j t TY ; £51 Ca if I iy ile oOM stlitlps Ly ) sebba 5 
} “13+ ar + " + 
Yr exam nstruct ns t 4 9sson or a reminder abou at the child 
[ r {7 od 4 2? Ea. tea 4 er behavi Yr is ai rant ed at a + 
© 
wA? . mak ‘ . . f 4 along + +) 
Dut i be rytain tnat tu are making a record f it along with 
je Ms j ld 
4 T , T¢ Te ery t 
> . “Fr . , + ¥ + + " (“le ,ayye m ‘ 
’ is ; t A i VSSCrvel in © Li} rit L425 oarPOONM s 
vr y " _Ameur re hetweer part sir ant } server 
’ ¥ > A. . i 3 +% aia “ 1e@7 “ rN t us a , 4 we i v 
: tte rin hac bserver i expected to become a familiar enough 
i Lim. | XT 
P + swA11 4 } a4 ; ty , lea 
r t the iren that he not attract unusual attention while 
: : ; ay i aie ce 
1 r and iea ne tne Mm. n tne r m, depending on the activities 
© . > Kh + . - P if 
: r gar i Of fr Sh ; ldren and teacher the observer should position 
‘Aas } ‘+jivities het rj C ff the 
nax im visua sce t the a ivities and behaviors of tne 
met me [iv Lve the @) erver wi th LV ties 
. Seas le a l¢ c ac + ’ sayru 
' r . j nvolvement is permissible : long as tne observer 
t ms take r the teacher's responsibilities 


ptable inv ement might include a short period of individual work 


—" 


370 


va) 17 


followed 


vary 


the class- 


you sho record observations 


circumstances 10 AY C to make 


comments 


though you may record obser- 


primary 


ation and data processing 


observations for 


7 


Events ich are observable : ie frequency 


record eac 


a change fr 


wi 


ho 


uw i + 
rear  y 
v 

tra 
wo + 
, ePrery 


torr ‘ .7¢ c yr + ama y an a ,) } 
4gn @ 2S5Ory niormation 1 provided to identify the 
Ho y a AnaAe ae eer ETP y + . . 
in n nl a iS unusual. ne ot akes an inferer 
+nrara 7 : 1 Aan + fad ~ ‘val, y +} ar 
LT} ) l laden l 4 1 mune aata ft 
are mea tune ef fy eBrYranrac y 1 Ww ? want 
re me Ypes rn ¢ > y 1 W1lil Want t 
= Am “TA4y "77 noand > Mave a rr " + T ’ ar 
some you will eed mak MPL cit, e type e 
} i 
. " a + w . ~+ 
y "are . ’ r > ar, ta ¢ + s 
you ilg! nak LEG OE .2 nw LDOUL 
t ses hile vraica? -_ atione} 
i sible iusal relationshit 
Tn far . PARANA wits ? + riatine 
> Inferred per Nall nNaracteristics. 
“ T »sleatrancsa - ¥ _oOwtr + + y arian y . * * 
‘ e} ance bservation t evidence of a stressful b 
ye sla = — +s3Q+ 34 v 
r ; ? mara v} intferanrac y ar a he xr +h a loc 
1 do mak ich inferences, please observe these rules: 
) + amnac voll, infe 
+ al ft Tanarate the 
i i QOeVaratle sia 
oF, ° Tins : tanandan?+ hi 1 . et ae 
DAL : mn, a aqepenaent 114a, cried wnen nis 
mother left the roo 
saa 4 ae . ~ ~~ Yio + J/\/lise 
' 
BE LTEER n led when his mother left 
/ . | \ 
ra rar > . rr tT Mey 1IeNn Vv 
I Jb 1. © oe es >penudeé ney je 
2 ans) Y ayer Oc aYrDa me 12 > ~rnapayrt at = 
‘ ign the in I S are made, observation is labe 
y +} ae . + : - 1 , + 
n the basi he in se ther th the body 
‘ ; erusa y ’ ne at TOS amnia + +a 1a $ Ky 
el rv 10on. in th 1b0OVve xample this 1s impor- 
~~ ~ > } - la » ” ~ 
sant because the first probably be 
ree a4 <v¥ urn £ +h o 
cB Lied uu LNG Wille Th he led 
ot co) a ¥ + * 
E {DEN DS. it 1S case 
tne r eryer ANncidraeread +h > ava r } ; 
she ot I ynsidered the dependency behavior more 
Imnortant than the rrvine 
aden JL V Bid ree Se 86% sia a Li . 
) 
fo a a eee s “nek eo etmmete 
. JO MOU -& nera Zé LUI 1 Site LeS . 
a ° .+ a + + r + a 
=) > r » > f=) z tinct nna 
- oveve hit Pete without apparent 
neotr ratraIAr {a+ a > hae 5 ] 
provocation. \oteve has a large 
. . o> «6 \ 
recawrniry ~ . haat +4, 
er’v i NLOS LLLUY }). 
Ty + oe . } } } 
acclima +har +}, Ana 
ijt]. TALS 45SuUumM - NL at ne ooserver 
he c pear aa +f + ox Se hvAct*+ 14 } ——?- 
h e! S of oteve'’s hostility before 


t be cited in support 
esponsibility of the 
not to generalize from 


ay 


f a particular behavior. 


about psycho-dynamic constructs such 
"body image," "acting out," etc. 


OBSERVATION FORM 
actually recorded is called an Event. The 
which an observer sees a child do; anything 
he child or which was said of him by an 
who knows him as a member of the classroom 
\dividual; any behavior of the teacher specifically directed 
or additional information such as family status or medical 
case you will be writing a single observation 


of the observation page. 


your observations in ink, preferably blue or black. Do 


“ 


7 


pencil or red ink. Pencil too easily becomes smudged with 
your observation forms will receive during coding and key- 
ecifically for coding each pupil's record. 
nave to read what you have written, you must write 
is habitually messy or difficult to decipher, 
pressures and inconvenienes of recording in 


may wish to print rather than to write in 


ation form. In the upper right hand corner 
in your name, the date on which you are making 
of the teacher of the child or children you are 


You will use 


344 


354 -10- 


, as many of these sheets as needed during an observation. Numbering each 
aze in sequence in the spaces provided will help you keep track of your 
servations for a period or a day. You should always start a new sheet 


on a new observation day or when you change from one classroom and/or 


At the top of each section on the observation form, you will see 

several headings starting with CODE, EVENT NAME, and SUBJECT. The 

adings, CODE, SUBJECT. PUPIL ACTIVITY and CONTEXT constitute the mandatory 
ntries of the observatior form. Each box under each of these headings 
must be completed for every observation. EVENT NAME, TEACHER ACTIVITY 
and TEACEER RESPONSE will be filled in by a project staff member after you 
have completed the observations. When a particular mandatory entry is 
not applicable t> the observation, put NA in the appropriate box. This 
situation will occur if, for example, you record a teacher report about a 
*hild. Do not leave any mandatory entry blank. The keypuncher will be 
forced to stop work and try to determine what should go there, thus slowing 


n explanation of each of the mandatory entries 


along with the specific labels which may be used with each follows. 


code assigned to 
target pupils you will 
servations. Put this number in the box. 
mandatory entry is SUBJECT. This refers to the 
Although there may be other pupils 
principal pupil in the event. 
his entry refers to the content of the pupil's 
,om program in progress at the time the event 
equently used activities is provided below. These 
might be recorded. In all cases, make as 


describe the child's learning activity or 


XT provides a description of different 
may have important influences on the child's 


determined not by the event itself but by 


event occurs. Contexts designated T 


he teacher is directing the activity. 
which another adult such as an aide 
Those designated I are situations in 


are functioning independently or the teacher's direc- 


>s of the several different CONTEXT 


Flag, salute, story 
lirections, lessons. 

Games directed by 

is parti- 


© 


whole class 


jivided into groups and the 
adult is directing the 

group in which the child 

is recorded is 


T’ } a ~ STI"5 
1,eacner-Group 
ner 


A A pJ ~A1% 
Adult= 4uroup 
the 


observation 
,ing. 


Oral reading group, 


DY AMDT Te 
BAAN Litt $ 


EXAMPLE: A game under the 
of the teacher but not in- 


aa 


entire class. 


er adult is directing 
individual student, 


the class. 


The teacher has called 


rer desk for special help 
is recorded for him 


vation is 


wap & 


Liss © 


Sa + 4m 


between 


ities. 


muy 


yy 


Puy 


AMDT T. 
st Liius 


YA MPT 


activi 


reading 


} 


VU 


serve to 


can 


-15- 359 


now have 3 lines in which to record the 


follow the few guidelines below when writing 
will be easier for you to encode and easier for 


if you do. 


the sequence of an event in chronological order. 


Allen and Steve were reprimanded 
by teacher for not being quiet 
during spelling lesson. 


Allen and Steve were noisy 
during spelling lesson. 
Teacher reprimanded them. 


TEVER make a nning commentary on classroom activities. 
the 


h dotal material into events which can 
an incident seems to consist of more than 
record each probable event in a separate 


ircumstances surrounding the event in sufficient 
uding precipitating factors, prior conditions, 
, follow up, etc. If the event itself, complete 
surrounding information, is too long to record 
line section, you may continue it in the 
indicating that it is the same event by 
horizontal double line. You may finc! 
ing a particular incident in sufficient de- 
have more than one event. In the latter 


ACTIVITY in the space at the top 

pe completed by the project staff. On the line 

observer should describe the teacher's activity 
Normally this indicates simply the role of 


The following list of roles will 


recorded in this line. 


Lecturing 
Explaining a process, procedure or a lesson 
Providing information about an activity or lesson 
yrganizing an activity or lesson 
Sonducting question and answer session 
Leading a game 
Leading an activity 
Reviewing the work of a group of pupils 
Reviewing the work of individual pupils 
Standing, waiting for silence 
Salling class to attention 
Moving around the room assisting children with assignments 
sk to help individual pupils 
relatively unavailable to pupils 
he room 
visual demonstration (models, pictures) 
1udio-visual demonstration (movies, film strip) 


7. 


¥ 


audio demonstration (records, tape recordings ) 


the lexicon of teacher activities on the 
[It is therefore important to 
s possible. Normally the 
the context will not change often during an ob- 
rder to save time during observation periods, the 
a record of the teacher activity once to keep 
for each e«*nt on the observation 
over. Only changes in teacher 
ecorded, but teacher activity should be as specific 


and behavior events. 


T 


SPONSE will be re- 
space at the top of each observation. 
the Lexicon for examples of teacher 
been observed in the development of the APPLE obser- 
observer will note that many of these Lexicon terms 
positively or negatively, pupil behavior 


ther kinds of teacher response are also defined. For 


~ 


the observer must record the teacher response on the 


case where a teacher behavior initiates an 
“rver must also record t'.2 pupil response. In the case where 
is non-verbal, it is important that the appropriate 
non-verbal be i Frowns, smiles, noticing 
ing, rewarding with lifesavers, ignoring behavior, or un- 
would be examples of non-verbal teacher be- 
pany a pupil event. Please be as specific as 
teacher response. If there is no 


a record of the teacher response put "none" in 


atin 


In this st‘ for each observation the 
rate his judgment of the pupil's behavior with respect 
tivity taking place at the time of the observation. 
assigned to positive, productive, involved behavior. 
an event in which the pupil behavior was 


understand a concept, or 


an assignment. / )" would be used when the quality of the 


indeterminate. 


project have requested the 
activities with the observer at the con- 
Summary Observation Report was pre- 
rstematic method for reporting back to teachers 
sbserved in each observation period as well as 
be sure that no important information about 


experiences have been omitted. 


of the form is self-ex- 
sf blanks provided for the 
class and target pupils. At the left 


Fe the class enrollment by ethnic 


blanks to enter the class atten- 


At the right side of the form 
be observed are entered 
if the child was present 
Unless a child leaves 
attendance record would be the 
observation period. 
summary. At the left 
name and code number. 
pupils which you will 
headed "For each 


Under this section the 


36 


as 


erver 


~} 
Vu 


“2i" 365 


completing this as soon after the observation as possible would increase 
t accuracy of the time estimates 
The final two colums refer to the nature of the learning activites 


during the observation period. It is important to determine the extent 


t hich learning activities were structured for each child. An ex- 


ample of a very structured learning activity would be a programmed reading 
lesson, or @ mathematics workbook. An example of an unstructured 


activity would be a free reading period where a pupil selected whatever 
wanted t io. Remember that this is an observer rating and that you 

will have t use your best judgment as to the nature and extent of the 

structure of the learning. The final column is used to indicate the 


extent to which a child's learning activity was the same or different 


Discussion of the Observation Record with the Teacher 


You and the teacher may have time to review the observation record 
toward the end of the day. It will be more appropriate for you to share 
the summary report than the individual observations. The teacher can 
assist you to determine the nature of the material and the focus of the 
t 


learning activity. The teacher's knowledge of the assigned work in 


‘lass should assist in making ratings of structure and differentiation. 


‘ 
" 
2 
) 
+ 
- 
p 
+ 
| 
; 
( 
“i 
cr 
r 
3 
~ 
+ 
» 
v 
4 


es will probably be yours, however, and can 
be shared with the teacher for her information. 

If the teacher makes important comments about any of the pupils 
ijuring the review period, the observer can make an observation record of 
them. They will be encoded later like the rest of the observations and 
enter the pupil record. Examples of comments which may be important 


hanges in pupil behavior since the begin- 


‘ 
t 
5 
Ny 
r+ 
+ 
, 
Wi 
? 
YU 
VU 
, 
< 
a 
D 
go 
" 
O 
" 


clarify the meaning of behavior which occurred 


386 


These opportunities for teachers to contribute to the 


observation record are important ones and the content of them 


Observation Form or the Observ 


367 


ACADEMIC ACTIVITIES other 
than reading and mathematics 


Qty 


ry 


Education 
and Forms 
Studies 


SITIONAL ACTIVITIES MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES 


au 


Assembly 
—Conference 
Discussion 
Election 
Individual Activities 


Weekly Reader 
Individual activity 
SPENING ACTIVITIES done at a desk 


1¢cs 


act 


ion ” 


4c 
fy ee 


ings 
i 


Vervous Hab 


. 
< 
+ 


ve Conduct 
usiasm 
el 


h 
rustration 


Hurt 


» 
i 


— 
~ 


ie 


trolling Behar 


Con 


NAMIC 
p< Ps eueee eS 


AND ; HYSICA HARACTERISTICS AND ACTIVITY 


2al Appearance 
Coordination 


Behavior 
Behavior 


Organization 


CMERWTAMNTCA AT MY "1 


TERISTICS HEALTH ILLNESS 


ion 


Ss 
Treatment 


ISTRATIVE-OTHER 


istrative Intervention 
idult Management 


y &* > 


Attendance 
Judgement 
Recommendation 


o 


Scheduling 


'EACHER 


TEACHER 


Teacher Affect 

Teacher Change 

Teacher Concern 
Teacher Confidence 
Teacher Disappcintment 
Teacher Judgment 
Teacher Resistance 


valet! agement 
pnceouragement 


TEACHER COMMUNICATIONS 


Parent-Teacher Communications 
Teacher Complaint 

Teacher Information-Giving 
Teacher Request 


