"?om 


PAHUKANILUA: 


HOMESTEAD    OF    JOHN   YOUNG 


PU'UKOHOLA    HEIAU     NATIONAL    HISTORIC     SITI 
KAWAIHAE,    HAWAII 


PAHUKANILUA: 


Homestead  of  John  Young 
Kawaihae,   Kohala, 
Island  of  Hawai'i 


Historical  Data  Section 
of  the 
Historic  Structure  Report 


by 


Russell  A.  Apple, 
Pacific  Historian, 
National  Park  Service, 
U.  S.  Department  of  the  Interior 


Puukohola  Heiau  National  Historic  Site 


September  1978 


National  Park  Service 

Hawaii  State  Office 

300  Ala  Mbana  Blvd.,  Box  50l6£ 

Honolulu,  Hawaii  968$0 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

List  of  figures iv 

Introduction 1 

Young  tombstone  inscription  3 

Note  on  names h 

Statement  of  Significance $ 

JOHN  YOUNG  HOMESTEAD  1798-18^0 8 

John  Young's  Real  Estate 8 

John  Young  Homestead  1793-ca.  l85>0 IS 

Location 17 

Physical  and  Temporal  Attributes 17 

Conclusions 18 

JOHN  YOUNG  HOMESTEAD  ca.   18^0-1973 19 

Keoni  Ana  and  L.C.A.  8£lS:l 19 

Ka'oana'eha,   Puna  and  L.C.A.  U522 2U 

Church  Lot 27 

Lyons  Houselot 32 

Fishpond  at  or  near  Pahukanilua 3U 

Adjacent  Land  Commission  Awards 35 

APPENDIX  A    Young  Family  Geneology     39 

APPENDIX  B     The  Great  Mahele U2 

APPENDIX  C     Land  Commission  Awards U5 


ii 


APPENDIX  D    Homestead   :     Historical  References hi 

APPENDIX  E     Placenames  of  Homestead  Quiches     53 

APPENDIX  F     Kawaihae  Miscellanea 56 

Ancient  fishing  rights 56 

Sources  of  boundary  knowledge   57 

Boundary  disputes 59 

Salt  Pans  and   'ill   'aina  of  Kawaihae  2 60 

Occupancy  authorizations  of  Land  Commission  Awards      .    .  6l 

Wharf  to  Kauhuhu 63 

Kauhuhu  to  Makahuna 6h 

Makahuna  to  Pelekane   66 

Kawaihae  people   67 

APPENDIX  G     Palapala  Hooko:     85l5  part  1 72 

APPENDIX  H     Ka'oana'eha     73 

Glossary 79 

Literature  Cited 80 


iii 


LIST  OF  FIGURES 


Figure  1     Looking  west  along  island  chain 
Island  of  Hawai'i 
Kohala  district 7 


Figure  2  Kawaihae  features  and  locations  ca.   1829,   1978     .    .  12 

Figure  3  Land  awards  ca.  18^0 13 

Figure  k  John  Young  Homestead  (upper  portion)      16 

Figure  5  Land  commission  awards,  Kawaihae  bay,   ca.   18£0     .    .  28 


iv 


Introduction 


This  historical  data  section  of  the  Historic  Structure  Report 
should  be  considered  preliminary.      It  is  based  only  on  data 
accumulated  through  September  1978.     Programming  of  archeological 
investigations   in  the  1978  fiscal  year  dictated  the  need  to  syn- 
thesize the  information  now  available  to  the  Pacific  Historian 
for  the  use  of  archeologists,  interpreters,  and  park  managers. 

In  1978,  an  archeological  investigation  is  being  conducted  under 
the  supervision  of  the  Pacific  Archeologist,  National  Park 
Service,  on  what  is  identified  in  this  monograph  as   the  John  Young 
Homestead  (upper  portion),  a  part  of  Pu'ukohola  Heiau  National 
Historic  Site.     The  lower  portion  of  the  homestead  lies  outside 
the  park  and  is  buried  in  1978  under  a  fill  of  dredged  coral. 

Long  term  research  by  the  Pacific  Historian  on  John  Young  began 
in  1966  and  had  been  conducted  intermittantly  ever  since.     It  is 
still  a  continuing,   intermittant  project.     It  is  estimated  that 
perhaps  half  of  the  potential  sources  have  been  searched  for 
information  on  John  Young  and  his  homestead  at  Kawaihae.     Sources 
involved  include  known  ships'   logs,  journals,  diaries,  reports, 
notes,  government  documents,  and  the  records  of  travellers  to, 
and  residents  of,   the  Hawaiian  Islands  for  the  period  1790 
through  1835  and  beyond. 

John  Young  was  a  major  figure  in  Hawaiian  History  and  his  recorded 
contacts  numerous.     "Accounts  by  voyagers  /to  Hawai'i7  between  1790 
and  1820  mention  him  more  often  than  any  other  individual  except 
Kamehameha  /T7.  "1    Meager  indeed,  however,  are  the  details  recovered 
to  date  about  his  Kawaihae  homestead.     Documentation  which  should 
resolve  any  local  controversy  concerning  the  location  of  the  John 
Young  Homestead  was  recently  found  in  the  records  of  the  Kingdom's 
Boundary  Commission.     It  held  hearings   in  I876  at  Kawaihae  adjacent 
to  the  homestead,  and  in  other  places  in  the  district  of  Kohala. 

A  debt  is  acknowledged  to  the  late  John  F.  G.  Stokes,   curator  of 
collections,   Bernice  Pauahi  Bishop  Museum.     His  interest  in  John 
Young  led  him  to  collect  over  the  years  numerous  notes  on  the 
scattered  sources.     These  notes,   collected  in  the  1920 's  and  1930 's 
are  in  the  custody  of  the  Hawaiian  Historical  Society.     The  society 
made  copies  available  to  the  National  Park  Service  to  assist 


Stokes  1938:16.  See  Bibliography  for  full  titles.  Stokes 
1938:13-38  dealt  with  proof  "that  John  Young  was  an  Englishman 
and  wrote  to  eliminate  his  sometimes  mistaken  identity  with  four, 
possibly  five,   other  men  named  John  Young  who  visited  Hawai'i 
ca.  1800. 

2Kamoehau  1876:391;  Parker  1876:392;  Wahinenui  1876:392. 


in  research.     Stokes'    notes   led  to  many  of  the  original  sources, 
or  to  reliable  copies,   and  suggested  others. 

Assistance   in  the  more  technical  aspects  of  Hawaiian  land 
matters  and  in  making  documents  available  came  from  John  Cline 
Mann  of  Austin  Tsutumi  Associates;  attorney  Frederick  G.   Reicker; 
Kenneth  Nurse  of  Hawaiian  Trust  which  handles  legal  matters  of 
the  Queen  Emma  estate;  Herbert  Ewaliko  of  the  Land  Office,  State 
of  Hawai'i;  James  C.  Faries  of  Laurance  Rockefeller's  Olohana 
Corporation;   and  Long  and  Me  lone,   title  abstractors.     Special 
appreciation  is  given  to  George  E.  K.  Awai,   long  retired  from 
the  Territorial  Land  Office.     Notes  he  left  in  the  Land  Office 
files  on  Young  family  land  matters  were  of  great  assistance. 
Peg  Apple,  wife  and  my  frequent  collaborator,  has   ridden  herd 
on  this  report's   readability  and  clarity. 


Russell  A.  Apple, 


Kaka'ako,  Honolulu 
September  1978 


"Beneath  this  Stone 
are  deposited  the   remains  of 
JOHN  YOUNG 
(of  Lancashire  in  England) 
The  Friend  and  Companion  in  Arms  of 
KAMEHAMEHA 
who  departed  this  life 
December  17  th  1835, 
in  the  93rd  year  of  his  age 
and  the  U6th  of  his  residence  on  the 
SANDWICH  ISLANDS" 


Tombstone,    Royal  Jfe  us oleum 
Nu'uanu  Valley,  O'ahu 


Note  on  Names 
Quiches : 

In  this   report,   the  modern  names  for  the  gulches  on  either 
side  of  the  John  Young  Homestead  have  been  used.     These  are 
the  names   found  on  recent  maps.     See  Figures  2,   3,   and  k 
for  these  modern  names;  see  Appendix  E  for  a  discussion  of 
the  nlacenames  of  these  gulches . 

Pahukanilua: 

This  was   the  placename  associated  in  18U8  with  the  lower 
portion  of   the  John  Young  Homestead.      It  is  assumed  that 
Pahukanilua  as  a  place  also  included  the  upper  portion  of 
the  Homestead.     The  place  named  Pahukanilua  lies  within 
the    'ili    'aina  of  Pohakuloa;  and  the    ' ili    'aina  of 
Pohakuloa   lies  within  the  ahupua'a   of  Kawaihae  Hikina, 
which  lies   in  the   District  of  Kohala,   Hawai'i   Island. 

Kawaihae  Hikina  =  Kawaihae  2 

Kawaihae  2   is   the  modern,   legal  name  for  the  ahupua'a 
which  was   traditionally  called  Kawaihae  Hikina,   and 
perhaps   rarely  was  called  Kawaihae  Hema.     Context  and 
time  frame  determined  which  placename  was  chosen  for  use 
in  this   report.     Figure  1C  shows  the  complete  ahupua'a. 

Kawaihae  Komohana   =  Kawaihae   1  =  Kawaihae    'Akau. 

Kawaihae  1  is   the  modern,   legal  name  for   the  ahupua'a 
which  was   traditionally  called  Kawaihae  Komohana  and 
sometimes  Kawaihae    'Akau.     All  three  names  are  used  in 
this   report.     Figure  1C  shows   the  complete  ahupua'a. 
Kawaihae  Komohana  and  Kawaihae  Hikina  are  adjacent. 

John  Young  =  Olohana 

John  Young  II  (Jr.)   =  Keoni  Ana 

Ka'oana'eha   =  Malie  or  Mary  Kuamo'o  =  Mrs.   John  Young 


Spelling  of  Hawaiian  placenames,   names  and  words  follow  the 
Hawaiian  Dictionary  by  Mary  Kawena  Pukui  and  Samuel  H.  Elbert 
(University  of  Hawaii  Press,  Honolulu,   1971)  and  Place  Names 
of  Hawaii  by  Pukui,  Elbert  and  Esther  T.  Mookini  (University 
Press  of  Hawaii,  Honolulu,   197U)  •     The  pronunciation  of  many 
names  was  unknown;  for  these  no  attempt  was  made  to  write  them 
with  hamzas  and  macrons.      In  quoted  material,  of  course,   the 
original  spelling  was  followed. 

(A  glossary  of  Hawaiian  words  follow  the  appendices). 


Statement  of  Significance 

Englishman  John  Young,  boatswain  on  a  ship  trading  at  Kealakekua 
Bay,  Hawai'i  Island,   in  1790,  was  not  permitted  to  rejoin  his  ship. 
He  was  detained  ashore  by  the  Hawaiian  high  chief  Kamehameha, 
later  to  be  known  as  Kamehameha   I,  and  still  later  as  Kamehameha 
the  Great.     Together  with   Isaac  Davis,  another  Englishman  ashore 
by  accident  at  the  time,  Young  was  one  of   the  two  leading  foreign 
advisors  to  Kamehameha  as  this  chief  conquered  island  after  island 
to  found  the  Kingdom  of  Hawai'i,  political  ancestor  of  the  State 
of  Hawai'i.     Both  Davis  and  Young  lived  out  their  lives   in  the 
Islands.     When  Davis  died  in  1810,  Young  adopted  the  Davis  children. 

Young  became  a  high  Hawaiian  staff  chief  with  the  name  of  Olohana, 
the  Hawaiian  language  imitation  of  his  boatswain's  call  "All  Hands" 
during  the  battles  of  conquest.     Young  also  served  Kamehameha 
later  in  civilian  capacities  as  business  agent,  friend,  advisor, 
keeper  of   the  royal  arsenal,   captain,  pilot  and  royal  agent. 
Young  was  governor  of  Hawai'i  Island  from  1801  through  1812,  years 
when  Kamehameha  was  absent  from  his  home  island.     Kamehameha  kept 
his  native  staff  chiefs  close  to  him  in  court  at  Honolulu  where 
he  could  watch  them  for  signs  of  disloyalty.     Young  made  his 
permanent  home  at  Kawaihae,  but  did  much  travelling  on  the  King's 
business  to  other  parts  of  the  Kingdom.     Through  many  decades 
he  was  the  leading  resident  chief  at  Kawaihae. 

Because  of  Yoixig's  residence  at  Kawaihae,  Hawai'i's  first  cattle 
were  landed  there  in  17Q3  and  the  first  horses   in  1803.      It  was 
known  Young  would  know  how  to  care  for  them.     After  Kamehameha 
the  Great  died  in  1819,  Young  assisted  Kamehameha   II  in  the 
ceremony  which  marked  the  overthrow  of  the  Polynesian  taboo 
system  in  the  Kingdom  of  Hawai'i  and  which  resulted  in  the  razing 
of  the  temples.     The  brig  Thaddeus  stood  off-and-on  Kawaihae  Bay 
in  1820  while  the  pioneer  load  of  Christian  missionaries  from 


New  England  sent  representatives  ashore  to  seek  Young's  permission 
to  have  an  audience  with  Kamehameha   II.     Young  advised  the  newly 
crowned  King  to  let  the  missionaries  ashore  on  a  trial  basis  to 
teach  reading,  writing,  and  simple  arithmetic  to  the  high  chiefs. 
Their  landing  was  the  first  of  a  series  of  events  which  led 
eventually  to  the  annexation  of  Hawai'i  by  the  United  States. 
Young  seems  to  have  been  present  and  involved  in  every  event  of 
lasting  importance  in  Hawai'i  from  1790  through  1820. 

Young's  indirect  contributions  to  Hawaiian  history  come  through 

his  descendents,   all  members  of  Hawaiian  nobility.     Among  them 

were  John  Young  Jr.,  best  known  as  Keoni  Ana,  who  served  Kamehameha    II 

as  advisor    and  Kamehameha   III  as  premier;  and  Young's  granddaughter 

Emma,  queen  of  Kamehameha   IV.      Later,  as  dowager  queen,  Emma  was 

a  orime  contender  for  election  to  the  throne.' 

John  Young's  Homestead  at  Kawaihae   is  nationally  significant  because 
of  its   long  association  with  a  man  and  events   important  to  the 
founding  and  early  decades  of  the  Kingdom  of  Hawai'i.      It  is  signi- 
ficant also  as  the  seat  of  a  chiefly  Hawaiian  family,  prominent 
in  the  affairs  and  history  of  the  Kingdom.     Architecturally,    the 
homestead  contained  early,   if  not  the  first,  buildings  of  Western 
design  permitted  by  Kamehameha   the  Great  to  be  built  in  the 
Hawaiian  Islands.     Their  ruins  still  exist. 


^See  Apple   1969:25-31  for  notes  and  bibliography;  Kuykendall 
19S7 :IjS3  for   index  on  John  Young  and  Keoni  Ana;  Kuykendall  1967  :7£2 
for  Queen  Emma   index;  and  Kelly  197^:8-18  for  another  but  similar 
evaluation  of  John  Young  as  a  historical  figure. 


19"  00 


HAWAI'I 
£K  Looking  west  along  island  chain 


Kawaihae 


NORTH 


\  ISLAND  OF  HAWAI'I 
showing  traditional  districts 

0  8         16 

miles 


Kawaihae  Bay 


miles 

C  KOHALA  DISTRICT 

showing  some  ahupua'a  boundaries 

1  Kawaihae   1    (Komohana) 

2  -     Kawaihae   2   (Hikina) 


NORTH 


C  ii  ai  i  i  r  r*        m 


John  Young's   Homestead  (l798-l8£0) 


John  Young's   Real  Estate 

John  Young,   the  Englishman  turned  Hawaiian  chief,  became  a  man 
of  real  property.     By  1793,  he  had  "Estates  well  stored  with 
Hogs  and  plantations  of  all  kinds  of  vegetables"  as  well  as  a 
"Townhouse  near  the  Royal  Residence"  /at  Kealakekua  Bay,  where 
Kamehameha  was  headquartered/.^ 

As  a  foreigner,  Young  had  no  local  family  connection  and  no 
loyalties  except  to  his  benefactor,  Kamehameha.     Young  was 
trusted  with  managing  resources  which  had  potential  to  be  turned 
against  Kamehameha   in  the  competitive  situation  of  the  times. 
These  resources   included  warriors,  horticultural  lands,  military 
and  naval  equipment  and  stores.     When  Young's  first  wife, 
Na-moku-'elua,   died  about  July  20,   l80lj,  Young  married  Ka'oana'eha 
(see  Appendix  H) ,  a  niece  of  Kamehameha.     This  marriage  further 
strengthened  Young's  ties  to  Kamehameha.     Young  called  Kamehameha 
the   "great  one"  in  at  least  one  diary  entry. 5     See  Appendix  A 
for  the  Young  Family  geneology. 

Long  before  Young  married  into  the  Kamehameha  family,  he  was  one 
of  the  landed  high  chiefs;  all  held  their  real  estate;  however, 
only  as  long  as   it  pleased  the  ruling  chief.      "All  lands  were 
the  sole  property  of  the  ruling  chief  to  give,    transfer,  or  reclaim 
as  he  saw  fit.     Upon  his  death  the  land  reverted  to  his  heir  to 
be  redistributed  according  to  his  own  wishes.""     Kamehameha  was 
such  a   ruling  chief.     He  died  in  1819.     His  heir  was  his  sacred 
son  Liholiho,  who  ruled  as  Kamehameha  II.     The  heir  of  Kamehameha   II 
was  another  sacred  son  of  Kamehameha   I  and  ruled  as  Kamehameha  III. 

Ruling  chiefs  assigned  various  ahupua'a   to  their  high  staff  chiefs. 
Some  ahupua'a  the  ruling  chiefs  kept  for  themselves.     Ahupua'a,   the 
basic  land  units,  varied  in  size,   from  a  few  acres   to  thousands 
of  acres.     An  ideal  ahupua'a  was  a  pie-slice  shaped  piece  of  land 
which  ran  from  a  mountain  top,   the  apex,  and  broadened  as  it  ran 
downslope  and  offshore.     Frequently  natural  features,  such  as 
gulches  or  ridges,  marked  ahupua'a  boundaries.     One  such  ahupua'a, 


^Manby  1927:30. 

^Death  date  of  Na-moku- 'elua   is   given  in  Polynesian,  Oct.   U, 
18^1:  p.   h7,   col.   h.  Young  diary  1798,  Aug. -Dec,  as  quoted  in 
Apple  1971:206.   See  Stokes  1938:1^-16  for  marriages  and  children. 
See  also  Appendix  A  for  Young  family  geneology. 

6Barrere  1962:1^-16. 

8 


one  with  gulches  as  seaward  boundaries,  was  the  ahupua'a  of 

Kawaihae  Hikina,  assigned  by  Kamehameha  to  John  Young. 

Its  adjacent  twin  ahupua'a  was  Kawaihae  Komohana,  assigned  by 

Kamehameha  to  his   "Prime  minister,"  Ka-lani-moku.     Together  the 

two  ahupua'a  were  known  as  the  land  of  Kawaihae,  or  simply  "Kawaihae." 

(See  Fig.  1C). 

Ahupua'a  were  subdivided  into  smaller  units,  usually   'ili   'aina, 
whose  tenant  families  furnished  the  goods,  products  and  services 
which  were  passed  on  a  gift/tax  basis   to  their  absentee  landlords, 
and  from  them  and  through  them  a  portion  went  to  the  ruling  chief.' 
Lesser  chiefs  and  commoners   in  residence  within  the  well-defined 
and  well-known  boundaries  of  each  ahupua'a  lived  and  worked  on 
their  assigned  subdivisions,  such  as  an   'ili   'aina,   often  over 
generations  as  gardeners,  artisians,    irrigation  specialists, 
fishermen,  and  laborers  through  many  changes  of  landlords.     Often 
the  landlords  were  absent,   required  to  travel  with  and  in  the 
court  of  a  ruling  chief.     In  such  cases,   there  was  usually  a 
resident  land  manager,   the  konohiki,  appointed  by  the  landlord. 

In  the  case  of  the  ahupua'a  of  Kawaihae  Hikina,   there  were  many 
residents,  all  of  whom  owed  allegience  to  their  landlord. 
Landlord  John  Young — Olohana- -appears  to  have  been  in  residence 
on  his  ahupua'a  of  Kawaihae  Hikina  much  more  frequently  than 
other  staff  chiefs  in  the  court  of  Kamehameha  were  in  residence 
on  theirs. 

John  Young  retained  possession,  use  and  control  of  many  of  the 
various  ahupua'a  and   'ili   'aina  assigned  him  through  several 
changes  on  the  throne  during  his  long  lifetime.     It  should  be 
realized — John  Young  certianly  did — that  his  possession,  use  and 
control  of  real  estate  was  at  the  will  of  its  owner:     Kamehameha 
the  Great,  followed  by  Kamehameha   II  and  then  Kamehameha   III. 

By  1793,  Young  held  property  at  Waiakea,   in  the  district  of 
Hilo--three  estates  assigned  him  by  Kamehameha — and  one  estate 
near  Cape  Kumukahi,   in  the  district  of  Puna,   transferred  to  him 
by  Ke'e-au-moku,  a  close  associate  of  Kamehameha.       These  were 
in  addition  to  Young's   "plantation"  at  Kawaihae. 9     All  of  the 
above  real  estate  was  on  the   Island  of  Hawai'i  (see  Fig.   IB). 


7Barrere  1962:1^-16. 
Vancouver  1801:   III,  235. 
^enzies  1920:  101. 


Young  was  assigned  these  for  his  service,   1790-1791,  as  part  of 
Kamehameha 's  land  forces. 10     Young  also  helped  Kamehameha   conquer 
northwest  up  the  island  chain,  179li-179£,   for  which  Young  was 
assigned  by  Kamehameha  additional  lands,  both  ahupua'a  and   'ili 
'aina,  on  other  islands  (see  Fig.   1A) . 

In  his  second  and  final  will,  dated  June  26,   183U,  Young  identi- 
fied "his"  lands.     There  were  mostly  ahupua'a,  with  a  few   'ili. 
On  Hawai'i  Island  there  were  29  lands,   including  one  land 
at  Kawaihae.     On  Maui  Island,   there  were  five  lands;  on  Lana'i 
Island,   one  land;  on  Moloka'i  Island,   one  land  and  on  O'ahu 
Island,    there  were  two  lands. 

Young's  second  will  was  endorsed  by  Kamehameha   III,  an  endorse- 
ment which  indicated  royal  consent  in  confirming  Young's  continued 
possession,  use  and  control.      This  was  royal  recognition,   as  early 
as  183U,   that  certain  people  and  families  had  gained  some 
interests  in  lands  assigned  them  for  service  to  the  crown  of  the 
Kamehameha  dynasty.     This  recognition  became  more  formal  and 
legal  in  the  Great  Mahele  (l8h8 — see  Appendix  B) . 

None  of  Young's  land  holdings  were  adjacent;   they  were  scattered. 
This  followed  Kamehameha 's  custom  of  denying  to  any  high  staff 
chief,  even  Young,   the  ability  to  consolidate  sufficient  resources 
to  consider  revolt. 

In  his  183U  will,  made  the  year  before  he  died,  Young  petitioned 
Kamehameha  III  to  equally  divide  most  of  these   lands  among  his 
surviving  children  and  the  surviving  children  of  the  by-then 
deceased  Isaac  Davis,    "...   in  such  manner  as   it  may  please 
his  Majesty  the  King  and  his  chiefs.     Provided  Always  that  each 
and  all  of   the  said  children  receive  a  just  and  equal  portion." 
Some  of  the  land  holdings  Young  had  already  assigned  to  his  wife, 
and  in  his  will  he  confirmed  this  assignment. ^     For  much  of  her 
life,   Ka'oana'eha  was  also  known  as  Malie  (or  Mary)   Kuamo'o. 

In  his  earlier,  but  undated  will,   ca .   1827,  Young  hoped  that 

our  Young  King  /famehameha   III,    then  about  12 
years  old7  will  fullf  il  the  Wishes  of  his  honored 
Father  /Kamehameha  the  Great7.     %  own  Lands  I 
wish  my  Children  to  enjoy  as   I  have  don  Likewise 

10Macrae:   1922:^0. 
nYoung  ca.   1827. 

10 


My  Wife   the  lands  I  got  from  Tammahama  for  my 
Services  to  him  in  his  Wares  in  conquering  the 
Islands  of  Owhyee,   Mowee,  Molotoy  and  Waahoo 
and  at  his  desese  he  told  his  Son  Rihoriho 
^Camehameha   Il7  to  take  care  of  me  and  my 
Children  which  I  hope  in  God  our  Young 
King   .    .    .  and  all  the  Leading  Chiefs  will 
fulfill  the  wishes  of  our  ever  lamented  and 
beloved  Tammahamma  it  is  my  Wish  that  lands 
be  sacred  to  my  Children  and  Wife   .    .    .*■* 

To  follow  the  history  of  Kawaihae  after  Young's  death  in  1835, 
it  is  necessary  to  single  out  two  of  Young's  children  by 
Ka'oana'eha  and  one  of  his  grandchildren.     One  child  is  high 
chief  John  Young,  Jr.,  better  known  as  Keoni  Ana.     Keoni  Ana 
was  born  at  or  near  Kawaihae  about  March  12,   1810,  was  a 
companion  of  Kamehameha   III  and  later  served  him  as  premier  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Hawai'i.     Another  is  Keoni  Ana's  older  sister, 
the  high  chief  ess  Kekela,  with  the  Christian  name  of  Fanny 
(Pani  in  Hawaiian);  born  at  Kawaihae  about  July  21,   1806.13 
She  married  the  Hawaiian  chief  Naea.     Their  child, the  high 
chiefess  Emma,  married  Kamehameha  IV,   grandson  of  Kamehameha 
the  Great.     Tradition  indicates  that  Emma  was  born  at  Kawaihae.   ** 
Later  in  life,  dowager  queen  Emma  took  the  Hawaiian  name  of 
Ka-lele-o-na-lani  (the  flight  of  the  chiefs  out  of  her  life) 
to  symbolize  her  losses  through  death,  first  of  her  son,   the 
Prince,   and  then  of  her  husband,  the  King. 

To  follow  the  history  of  Kawaihae  after  Youig's  death  in  1835, 
it  is  also  necessary  to  be  familiar  with  two  land  reform  programs 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Hawai'i.     One  program  was  the  Great  Mahele 
of  I8I48  (see  Appendix  B),l?  by  which  the  ahupua'a  of  Kawaihae 
Komohana  (#l)  was  retained  by  the  crown,  and  the  ahupua'a  of 
Kawaihae  Hikina  (#2)  was  granted  to  Keoni  Ana.     This  included 
the  upper  portion  of  the  homestead  (see  Figs.  2  and  3),  which 
probably  had  been  abandoned  in  1835. 

The  other  program  was  that  of  Land  Commission  Awards  (see  Appendix 
C) ,       I81j6-l855,  by  which  houselots,  small  garden  plots  and  other 


12Young  ca.   1827. 

13Foreign  Office  and  Executive  Document  No.  206,  Archives  of  Hawai'i. 

^See  Kelly  1971  :l6. 

^See  also  Chinen  1958;  Kuykendall  1957:269-291*. 

l6See  also  Chinen  1961;  Kuykendall  1957:279-282. 


11 


A  ca.1819 


Kawaihae  Bay 


1  John  Young  Homestead  (upper  portion) 

2  Makahuna  Gulch  (modern  name) 

3  Makeahua  Gulch  (modern  name) 

4  Pohaukole  Gulch 

5  Pu'ukohola  Heiau 


6  Mailekini    Heiau 

7  Haleokapuni    Heiau 

8  Pahukanilua:      John   Young    Homestead    (lower   portion) 

9  Pelekane 
10  Hanakahi 


il  '.iockpile 


0 


o 

.-A 


KAWAIHAE  FEATURES  AND  LOCATIONS 


Figure  2 


\ 


(a)       =  Informal  lots  never  awarded 

LCA    =  Land  Commission  Award 

Note  that  fences  and  boundaries  often 
do  not  coincide. 


V 


\ 


small  utilized  pieces  of  land  within  ahupua'a  received  boundaries 
and  were  awarded  to  their  long-time  tenants  or  their  heirs. 
The  John  Young  Homestead  (lower  portion)  was  bounded  and  awarded 
under  this  program;   thus   its   ownership  became  legally  distinct 
from  the  ahupua'a  of  Kawaihae  Hikina  which  surrounded  it. 
This  move  effectively  separated  the  abandoned  upper  portion  of 
the  homestead  from  the  still-occupied  lower  portion.     After  I8I18, 
legislative  acts  attempted  to  nrotect  certain  traditional  rights, 
such  as  gathering  firewood  in  the  forested  Dortion  of  an 
ahuoua'a,    '   for  lesser  chiefs  and  commoners  still  in  residence 
on  their  traditional  houselots  within  that  ahupua'a,  whether  or 
not  they  held  land  commission  awards).     The  land  awards  under 
this  Drogram  near  the  John  Young  Homestead  are   shown  in  Fig.   3, 
and  for  Kawaihae  beach   in  general  Fig.   5. 

The    'ili   'aina  of  Pohakuloa  was  a  narrow  strip  of  land--a  named 
management  unit  of  Kawaihae  Hikina — which  ran  inland  from  the 
sea  with  its  northern  edge  at  the  beach  along  Makahuna  Gulch 
(see  Fig.  3),  and  its  entire  northern  edge  coinciding  with  the 
northern  edge  of  the  ahupua'a  of  Kawaihae  Hikina.     Put  another 
way:      the   'ili   'aina  of  Pohakuloa  was  the  northernmost   'ili 
'aina  of  Kawaihae  Hikina  (#2)   and  abutted  the    'ili    'aina  of 
Pulama,  which  was  the  southernmost   'ili   'aina  of   the  ahupua'a 
of  Kawaihae  Komohana   (#l).      It  was  on  the    'ili   'aina  of 
Pohakuloa  that  John  Young  and  his  family  lived  (see  Appendix  D 
(22)).     Over  time,  boundaries,  and  even  names  of    'ili   '5ina, 
have  become  lost--for  instance,   the  southern  boundary  of 
Pohakuloa  is  not  known  today.     (Pahukanilua  is   the  placename 
within  Pohakuloa  on  which  the  Young  housing  complexes  stood). 

Appendix  F  includes  the  known  names  of  the    'ili    'aina  of 
Kawaihae  Hikina,   but  their  boundaries  and  their  locations  are 
not  known.     Land  utilization  of  ahupua'a   in  the  last  half  of 
the  19th  century  evidently  did  not  need  the   'ili    'aina  for 
management  units. 

In  one  sense,   the    'ili    'aina   of  Pohakuloa   is  the  John  Young 
Homestead;   in  a  broader  sense,   the  ahupua'a  of  Kawaihae  Hikina 
is  also  the  Homestead.      This   reoort  also  recognizes  and  favors 
the   narrow  view  that  the  Homestead  is  physically  the  two  nearby 
clusters  of  houses,  one  on  the  beach  and  the  other  just  inland 
on  the  brow  of  a  small  hill.      These  two  clusters  are  termed  for 
convenience  the  lower  and  upoer  portions  of  the  John  Young  Homestead. 

17Kelly  1971:7. 

1U 


Both  clusters  are  in  the    'ill    'aina  of  Pohakuloa.     Pahukanilua 
is  known  to  be   the  placename  associated  in  181*8  with  the  lower 
portion;  up  to  1835  it  probably  referred  to  both  portions 
(see  Appendix  D  (19)   (20)).     That  is,  Pahukanilua  may  well  have 
been  the  placename  for  land  which  contained  both  clusters;  a 
named  piece  of  land  within  the    'ili   'aina  of  Pohakuloa,  within 
the  ahupua'a  of  Kawaihae  Hikina.     If  one  could,  and  were  bold 
enough  to  ask  High  Chiefess  Ka'oana'eha  where  she  lived,  her 
answer  would  depend  on  the  context  of  the  question  and  the 
location  where  asked.     Her  answer  might  vary  from  "Pahukanilua," 
which  was  the  name  of  her  houselot,   to   "Pohakuloa,"  to  "Kawaihae 
Hikina,"   "Kawaihae -kai, "  or  just  "Kawaihae." 

Young's   tenants   lived  on  the    'ili   'aina  of  Pohakuloa  as  well 
as  on  the  other  'ili   'aina  of  Kawaihae  Hikina.     Apparently  each 
'ili   'aina  was  a  management  unit.     It  is  inferred  from  testimony 
in  181*8  that  each  such  management  unit  had  an  overseer  (luna) 
and  that  Kawaihae  Hikina  had  delegation  of  authority  downward 
and  outward  from  Young  (and  later,  from  Ka'oana'eha)   through  the 
konohiki,  a  functioning  resident  deputy  (see  Appendix  F).     A  man 
called  Ioba  Puna  has  been  identified  as  the  konohiki  for  Ka'oana'eha 

Some  of  Young's   tenants  lived  well  inland — miles  upslope  from 
the  beach — and  formed  a  separate  community  from  those  who  lived 
closer  to  the  beach.     There  were  also  scattered  houses  between 
the  beach  and  inland  communities  of  both  Kawaihae  ahupua'a. 
The  interior  boundary  between  Kawaihae  Komohana  and  Kawaihae 
Hikina  was  well  known  by  those  living  upslope  (see  Appendix  F) . 
The  inland  people  were  said  to  live   "mauka."     The  lower  or  beach 
portion  was  called  "Kawaihae -kai,"  or  as  with  any  beach  area, 
just  "makai."     This  report  deals  principally  with  Kawaihae-kai. 
Beach  people  were  said  to  live   "makai." 


John  Young  Homestead  1793 -ca.   1850 

The  historical  references  to  the  John  Young  Homestead — there  are 
2k  known  to  date — form  Appendix  D.     From  these  2k  references, 
the  following  statements  aopear  reasonable  and  are  among  the 
deductive  statements  which  can  be  made.     Numbers  in  parenthesis 
after  each  statement  are  those  of  the  references  in  Appendix  D 
which  support  and  justify  that  statement. 


15 


View  toward  Mahukona 


\ 


Datum  Point 
Elsv  18  meters 


lo|)  odge  dI  Makahuna  Gulch 

+ 


FIELD  DRAWING 


0       12      3      4      5 

HI  l._     I  ■         * 

Appro x.  scale  in  meters  i 


north  JOHN  YOUNG  HOMESTEAD  (upper  portion) 

(after  Ladd  1977) 


Figure  4 


Location 

1.  John  Young  made  his  principal  residence  at  Kawaihae. 

(1,   2,   7,  9,  11,   12,   15,   17,   18,   19,   20,   21,  22,  23,  22*). 

2.  John  Young  lived  at  Kawaihae  on  the  opposite  side  of  the 
gulch  from  the  1876  beach  home  of  John  P.  Parker,  whose 
house  lot  at  Kawaihae  is   identified  as  L.C.A..  3668:1  (Fig.   3). 
(21,  22,  23,   2k).     /For  the  names  of  the  gulch,   see  Appendix  e/ 

3.  That  houselot  which  became  L.C.A.  1£22  in  181*8  (Fig._3)  was 
rart  of  John  Young's  homestead.     (2,   18,  19,   20) .     /It  is 
identified  in  this  report  as  John  Young  Homestead  (lower  portion)/. 

1*.     That  houselot  on  the  brow  of  the  hill  above  L.C.A.   1*^22  and 
on  the  same  side  of  the  gulch,  was  part  of  John  Young's 
homestead,     (h,   $,  7,   11,   12,   13,   111,   V?,   17).     /It  is   identi- 
fied in  this  report  as  John  Young  Homestead  (upper  portion). 
This  is   the  houselot  with  visible  ruins  of  stone  buildings 
and  other  features  which  is  the  subject  of  archeological 
excavation  in  1978.     See  Figs.  3  and  U.     The  upper  houselot 
was  part  of  the  ahuoua'a  of  Kawaihae  Hikina  in  the  I8I48  Great 
Mahele  award  to  Keoni  Ana   (John  Young  II) .     Keoni  Ana  received 
Land  Commission  Award  (L.C.A.)   8f>13>:l  for  this  ahupua'a  on 
December  17,   18£3,  from  the  Land  Commission;  and  later,   on 
October  18,   185>1*,   Royal  Patent  1666:1.     Both  the  award  and 
the  patent  of  the  ahupua'a  were  issued  by  placename  only, 
with  boundaries  to  be  set  later.     Boundaries  were  set  in  1903.7 


Physical  and  Temporal  Attributes 

£.     By  1793,   John  Young  was  in  residence  on  what  later  became 
L.C.A.  Ii3>22,   the  lower  portion  of  the  homestead,     (l,  2). 

6.     In  1798,   John  Young  developed  on  the  hill  above  the  lower 
houselot  another  complex  of  buildings  —  "M7  house  the  cook 
house  and  storage  room  the  house  for  the  children  and  tahus" 
/those  in  care  of  the  children/.     (3,  li).     /The  children 
were  Robert  Young,  born  about  February  II4,   1796j  James  Young 
Kaneoha,  born  about  August  7,   1797;   (both  born  of  Young's 
first  wife,   Na-moku-'elua) ;  and  perhaps  also  Kale  Davis, 
born  about  February  l£,   1797*  if  this  son  of  Isaac  Davis 
was  adopted  when  an  infant.1"     (see  Appendix  A}/» 


^"Foreign  Office  and  Executive  Document  No.  206,  Archives  of  Hawai'i. 

17 


7.  Principal  building  material  for  the  upper  homestead  was  stone. 
Finishing  materials   included  coral-lime  plaster  and  whitewash. 
Roofs  were  thatched  with  pili.     (3,   k,  5,  6,   11,   12,   ll*,   15) 
(17?). 

8.  Visitors  were  entertained  in  the  upper  portion  buildings 
(7,   17), 19  and  in  the  lower  (17). 

o.      In  the  early  l800's,   the  John  Young  Homestead  was  the  most 
prominent  housing  establishment  on  Kawaihae  Bay.      (7,   11, 
12,   13,   15). 

10.     Vegetation  was  present  on  both  the  upper  and  lower  portions 
of  the  homestead.     (11,   19,   20).     Apparently  this  was   in 
contrast  to  the  surrounding  land,   (ll). 


Conclusions 

11.  John  Young  used  the  upper  portion  of  his  homestead  as  his 
principal  residence  (17)  from  1798  until  his  death  in  1835, 

at  which  time   it  was  abandoned.     There  is  a  remote  possibility 
that  for  a  time  after  1835,   it  was  used  for  a  Roman  Catholic 
School  (see   "Church  and  School  Lot"  below).     It  was  left  to 
disintegrate  after  abandonment.     John  Young's  possessions 
would  have  been  distributed  among  family  members  and  close  friends. 

12.  Ka'oana'eha  (the  second  Mrs.  John  Young)  used  the  lower  portions 
of  the  homestead  as  her  principal  residence  from  the  time  of 
her  marriage  to  Young  ca .   l80l*  to  sometime  after  Young's  death, 
probably  into  the  late  181*0 's20  (17,   18,   19,  20).     The  lower 
portion  of  the  homestead  was  also  occupied  by  retainers,   such 
as  Puna,  whether  or  not  Ka'oana'eha  was  in  residence. 

13.  As  a  high  chief ess,  Ka'oana'eha  followed  the  practices  which 
separated  women  from  men  when  she  lived  under  the  traditional 
Hawaiian  civilization, 21  that  is,   up  to  and  including  the 
year  1819.     For  a  high  chief  ess,   this   included  quarters  which 

19Also  Freycinet  in  1819.  Freycinet  1829:21*;  Rose  Freycinet  1927:26. 

2°Townsend  visited  her  at  Kawaihae  on  February  23,   1837.   Townsend 
1839:280.  According  to  witnesses  who  testified  before   land  commis- 
sioners at  Kawaihae   in  181*8,   Ka'oana'eha  was  assigning  houselots 
in  the  181*0 's.   See  Appendix  F. 

21Iselin,   n.d., :71 

18 


2? 
were  separate  from  those  of  her  husband.         For  Ka'oana'eha, 

this  housing  arrangement  persisted  after  1819  (17,   19,   20). 


John  Young  Homestead  ca.   1850-1973 

Keoni  Ana  and  L.C.A.   85l£;l  (ahupua'a  of  Kawalhae  Hikina) 

John  Young — Olohana — died  testate  December  16,   1835.         His  death 
occurred  at  the  home  of  his  son-in-law,   Dr.   Thomas  Charles  Byde 
Rooke,   in  Honolulu.     Young  apparently  visited  this  physician  when- 
ever he  felt  urgent  need  of  medical  attention.   ^ 

Friday  Dec.  18  /1835/.     The  funeral  of  Mr.  Young  was 
attended  this  afternoon  from  the  house  of  Dr.  Rooke. 
He  was  buried  with  military  honors  &  his  funeral  was 
attended  ty  a  numerous  concourse  of  people.     The  pro- 
cession formed  and  proceeded  to  the  meeting  house 
where  prayers  were  offered  and  an  address  in  both 
native  &  Eng.  delivered  by  /the   Rev.  Hiram/  Mr.  Bingham- - 
the  theme  of  the  address  was  from  the  Ninetieth  Psalm. 
"The  days  of  our  years  are  three  score  years  and  ten  and 
if  by  reason  of  strength  labor  and  sorrow — So  teach  us   to 
number  our  days  that  we  may  apply  our  hearts  to  wisdom." 
Mr.  Young  was  93  years  of  age  and  forty  seven  of  these  have 
been  spent  at  the  Sandwich  Islands.     He  has  always  been 
friendly  to  the  missionaries  and  he  has  seemed  to  rejoice 
in  the  success  of  the  missionary  cause  in  the  islands  His 
wife  &  one  of  his  daughters  are  members  of  the  S.I. 
/Sandwich  Islands/  church  and  two  of  his  sons   in  law. 
His  remains  were  deposited  in  the  enclosure  of  the 
Royal  Cemetery.  -> 

Under  Young's  183U  will,  King  Kamehameha  III  was  asked  to  divide 
equally  the  Young  lands   (except  those  designated  for  Ka'oana'eha) 
among  Young's  surviving  children  and  the  surviving  children  of 
Isaac  Davis.     The  will  named  Rooke  and  Alexander  Adams,  an  old 
friend  and  companion  of  Young,  as  executors.     From  Young's  death 


22 Apple  1971:5. 

23probate  21*0^,  Supreme  Court,  Kingdom  of  Hawai'i;  Archives  of 
Hawai'i.     His  tombstone  gives  the  date  as  December  17. 

2ilMacrae  1922:36. 

2^Levi  Chamberlain,   Journal,   1822-181*9.  Vol.  20,  pg.   7.  Hawaiian 
Mission  Children's  Society. 

19 


in  1835  to  moves  by  Rooke  to  settle  the  estate   in  181*7,  Kawaihae 
Hikina  had  Ka'oana'eha   in  residence  and  in  charge  (see  Appendix  F 
"Occupancy  Authorizations"). 

By  181*6,    the  land  commission  was   in  operation  and  the  Great 
Mahele  under  study.     On  June  2,   181*7,   Rooke  forwarded  to  the  land 
commission  (l)  an  attested  copy  of  the  will  "endorsed  and  Guaranteed 
by  his  Ma-jesty  Kamehameha  3rd;"  and  (2)  a  copy  of  Young's  earlier 
(ca.   1827*)  will  "to  explain  the  intentions  of  the  Testator." 
Rooke  claimed  "all  privileges  and  immunities  appertaining  to  Lands 
given  on  the  Battlefield  as  by  custom  or  law  established.  "26 
By  January  181*8,  Kamehameha  III  and  his  Privy  Council  (Keoni  Ana 
was  a  member)  had  divided  Young's   lands  to  result  shortly  there- 
after in  Great  Mahele  awards  to  Ka'oana'eha,  Keoni  Ana,  Fanny 
Kekela,   Grace  Kamaikui,   Jane  Lahilahi,   James  Young  Kaneoha,  Kale 
Davis,  Peke   Davis  and  George  Davis  Hueu.     One  of  the  lands  Keoni 
Ana  received  was  Kawaihae  Hikina. 27     Keoni  Ana's  Great  Mahele 
award  was  dated  February  12,   181*8,  and  gave  him  the  right  to  seek 
a  formal  award  from  the   Land  Commission,  and  following  that,  seek 
a   Royal  Patent. 

Legal  separation  of  the  upper  and  lower  portions  of   the  John  Young 
Homestead  was  underway.     The  upper  portion  was  part  of  Kawaihae 
Hikina;   the  lower  portion  was  about  to  become  a  private   inholding-- 
for  Puna  and  Ka'oana'eha  had  applied  January  6,    181*8  for  what 
became  L.C.A.   1*522. 

Acting  on  a  petition  of  Rooke,   the  King's  Privy  Council  on  August  29, 
1850,   authorized  the  Minister  of  the  Interior  to  grant   Royal  Patents 
to  the  heirs  of  John  Young  for  land  severally   inherited  from  Young 
"without  commutation  or   Division."     In  attendance  at  this  Privy 
Council  meeting,  whose  proceedings  were  secret,  were  His  Majesty, 
Keoni  Ana,  Kae'o,  Kana'ina,   T'i,  Kekuana'oa.  Armstrong,   Lee, 
Kapa'akea,  Paki,  Kanoa,  Kapeau,   and  Wyllie,   "  the  King's  closest 
associates  and  advisors --high  chiefs  and/or  ministers  of  the 
Kingdom's  executive  departments. 


26  Rooke  181*7. 

2?Great  Mahele  Book,  pg.   l6l.  Keoni  Ana  described  his  awarded 
lands  as    "the  Inherited  Lands."   (Feb.   ll*,   181*8).    Rooke,  Aug.   25, 
181*8,  sent  a  copy  of  the  Young  will  to  Kamehameha   III.   The  King 
listed  the  lands  he  awarded  to  the  heirs  of  John  Young  on  Sept.   1, 
181*8.   (Native   Register,  Vol.   3:595). 

Petition  dated  June  22,   1850.  Privy  Council   Records,  Vol.   3b:791. 


20 


/Projecting  back  in  time  the  1978  climate  of  public  opinion 
concerning  conflicts  of   interest,   governmental  favoritism, 
meetings  closed  to  the  Dublic  and  political  ethics   in  general, 
many  of  the  legal  moves  described  here  and  below  may  appear 
questionable.     However,   in  the  mid-1800's,   the  Kingdom  of 
Hawai'i  was  a  new  constitutional  monarchy  just  emerging  from  a 
strong  absolute  monarchy.     Much  public  business  was  conducted 
in  private.     A  class  system  with  all  the  privileges  of  rank 
existed.     Land  control  was  the  basis  of  wealth  and  power. 
Keoni  Ana  was  the  Kingdom's  Premier  and  a  member  of  a  leading 
chiefly  family.     He  was  addressed  as   irYour  Excellency. V 

Awardees  of  land  under  Kamehameha  Ill's  Great  Mahele  program 
were  required  to  apply  to  the  Land  Commission  for  the  formal 
award,  which  carried  an  L.C.A.  number.     For  the  ahupua'a  of 
Kawaihae  Hikina  -the  award  was  made  December  17,   185>3,  and  numbered 
L.C.A.   "85l5  part  1"  (85l5:l),  see  Appendix  G.     Unlike  awards  for 
houselots,   the  large  tracts  of  land  of  the  Great  Mahele  awards 
were  unbounded  and  were  made  by  placename.     Atoundary  matters 
as  they  affect  Kawaihae-kai  are  covered  in  Appendix  F,    "Boundary 
Disputes^.     All  L.C.A.  awards  apparently  were  subject  to  payment 
of  commutation.     Keoni  Ana  paid  $5.00.     All  such  awards  were  also 
subjects  to  the  rights  of  native  tenants.     These  rights  included 
land  commission  awards  for  their  houselots  within  the  ahupua'a 
(Puna  and  Ka ' oana ' eha ' s  award,  L.C.A.   U522,  had  been  made  in  l85l) ; 
as  well  as  gathering  and  passage.     Keoni  Ana's  L.C.A.  for  Kawaihae 
Hikina  was  followed,  October  18,   185U,  by  Royal  Patent  l66l:l, 
which  excepted  "mineral  or  metalic  mines  of  every  description," 
and  declared  that  its  boundaries  were  to  be  set  later.     /Boundaries 
were  set  late  in  1903,  and  contained  about  10,6l5  acres. 2~9_7 
There  was  a  waiver  of  commutation  for  the  Royal  Patent. 

During  Keoni  Ana's  tenure  as  owner  of  Kawaihae  Hikina  there  is 
no  evidence  of  any  visits  by  him  to  his  birthplace,-*0  nor  of  any 
contacts  with  his  mother,  Ka' oana 'eha,   the  resident  chief  ess. 
As  far  as  the  records  show,  Kawaihae  Hikina  was  just  another 
ahupua'a  on  Keoni  Ana's  list  of  real  estate  holdings.     The  known 
records  may  not  reflect  the  true  situation. 


29Abstract  of  The  Queen's  Hospital  title  1975:3U-U3. 
L.C.A.  Vol.  10:335. 

3°0ne  tradition  holds  that  Keoni  Ana  was  born  at  Klholo,  a  bay 
and  fishpond  in  Kona  a  few  miles  south  of  Kawaihae. 


21 


Keoni  Ana  died  testate  July  18,   1857 .     By   terms  of  his  will, 
one   third  of  his  estate  went  to  Queen  Emma31  (niece);  one  third 
to  Peter  Young  Kaeo  (adonted  son  and  nephew);  and  one  third  to 
Albert  K.  Kunuiakea  (neohew);  see  Appendix  A.     In  the  settle- 
ment, Queen  Emma   received  several  ahupua'a,    including  Kawaihae 
Hikina.     Late  in  her  lifetime,    Dowager  Queen  Emma  mortgaged  her 
lands,   including  the  one  at  Kawaihae,   several  times.     The  last 
mortgage  was   released  in  1886,   the  year  after  her  death,  by  her 
executor. 32     /Queen  Emma's   income  f_rom  the  Kawaihae  property  is 
discussed  under  L.C.A.  ii522,  below/. 

In  the  reign  of  Kamehameha   IV  (185U-1863),   the  need  of  hospitals 
for  the  native  people  was  recognized.     To  supplement  a  small 
legislative  appropriation  for  this  purchase,   the  King  himself 
solicited  subscriptions  on  the  streets  of  Honolulu.     This   resulted 
in  The  Queen's  Hospital  (now  The  Queen's  Medical  Center),  named 
by  Kamehameha   IV  for  Queen  Emma,  who  took  a  keen  interest  in 
the  project.     The  hospital  opened  in  temporary  quarters   in  1859, 
bought  land  in  downtown  Honolulu  and  had  a  permanent  facility 
by  the  end  of  i860.     From  the  start  it  has  been  operated  by  a 
board  of  trustees. 

Dowager  Queen  Emma  died  testate  April  25,   1885.     Her  will  left 
one  undivided  half  of  her  estate  to  The  Queen's  Hospital,  and 
one  undivided  half  to  Albert  K.  Kunuiakea — then  to  his  lawful 
issue,  and  if  none,   then  to  The  Queen's  Hospital. 33     Kunuiakea 
died  March  10,   1903,  without  lawful  issue,  which  placed  total 
ownership  of  Kawaihae  Hikina — by  this  time  known  as  Kawaihae  2 — in 
The  Queen's  Hospital.     This  consolidated  ownership  was  the  probable 
occasion  for  ■the  petition  which  resulted  in  the  settlement  of 
the  boundaries  late  that  year,     /it  should  be  noted  for  the  period 
1893  through  1900,   the  political  changes  from  revolution  to  the 
granting  of  an  organic  act  for  the  governance  of  the  Islands  by 
the  U.S.   Congress,  did  not  affect  the  ownership  of  Kawaihae  2. 
Between  the  revolution  in  1893  through  Statehood  in  1959,   the 
governments  were  known  as  The  Provisional  (1893-189U),   the 
Republic  of  Hawai'i  (180I4-I898) ,  and  the  Territory  of  Hawai'i 
(1898-195917. 


3lEmma  married  King  Kamehameha  IV,  grandson  of  Kamehameha  I, 
June  19,  1856.  Family  tradition  indicates  the  future  king  and 
queen  were  bethrothed  by  their  parents  shortly  after  Emma  was 
born.  Kuykendall  1966:11:275  fn37. 

32Abstract,   Queen's  Hospital  title  l875:Ui-59. 

33probate  1787,  Supreme  Court. 

22 


Starting  in  1887,  and  continuing  through  1973,   there  were  leases 
of  Kawaihae  2,  subleases,   lease  mortgages  and  releases  of  lease 
mortgages,  powers  of  attorney  granted  and  recalled  by  leasees, 
selling  of  leases  and  suits  over  leases.     Kahua  and  Parker  ranches 
were  often  involved.     There  were  also  quitclaim  and  other  deeds 
for  small  parts  of  the  ahupua'a  from  the  trustees  of  The  Queen's 
Hospital  to  the  Territory  of  Hawai'i  for  roads  and  other 
public  purposes. 3u 

Three  small  parcels  of  Kawaihae  2  land  at  the  beach  were  condemned 
by  the  Territory  of  Hawai'i  in  1958  for  a  deep  water  port  project. 
At  the  time  of  condemnation  and  taking,   the  parcels  were  identified 
as  parcels  17,  21,  and  22.     For  compensation,   the  trustees  of 
The  Queen's  Hospital  received  about  $1*0,000.     The  Territory  added 
these  parcels  to  others  they  had  acquired  in  the  vicinity  to  make 
the  larger  Parcel  E  of  about  23.66  acres.     Parcel  "E"  was  below 
the  modern  road  which  bisects  the  upper  and  lower  portions  of 
the  John  Young  Homestead,  and  north  of  the  road  to  Spencer  Park 
which  bisects  Pu'ukohola  and  Mailekini  heiau.     The  three  Queen's 
Hospital  lots  surrounded  but  excluded  old  road  rights-of-way  to 
Waimea  and  Puako  and  enclosed  but  excludjad  three  land  commission 
awards  in  the  beach  end  of  Kawaihae  2.3  5      Some  of  this  former 
Queen's  Hospital  land  in  1978  is  covered  by  coral  fill. 

Three  lots,   identified  as  lots  2,  3,  and  U,  of  Kawaihae  2  land 
at  the  beach  were  donated  by  the  trustees  of  The  Queen's  Hospital 
April  I4,   1973,   for  the  Pu'ukohola  Heiau  National  Historic  Site. 
Lot  2  (23.8023  acres)  was  the  largest  and  included  Pu'ukohola 
heiau  and  land  inland  of  the  Spencer  Park  road.     Lot  3  (8.6169 
acres)    included  Mailekini  heiau  and  land  seaward  of  the  Spencer 
Park  road.     Lot  h  (1.9591  acres)   included  the  John  Young  Homestead 
(upper  portion) .3" 

3^Abstract,  Queen's  Hospital  title  1975:68-86,   139-506. 

^Condemned  in  Civil  21*5,   276  combined,   Dec.  31,   1959.   Third 
Circuit  Court.  Land  Office  Deed  16331.  Recorded  in  Book  3789:82. 
Governor's  Executive  Order  1988,  Dec.   12,   1961,  formally  set  the 
land  aside  for  harbor  purposes. 

36Abstract,   Queen's  Hospital  title  1975:7914.   Deed  recorded  in 
Vol.  9065:75.  On  Nov.  k,  1972,   the  symbolic  gift  of  the  land  from 
the  trustees  was  part  of  a  pageant,    "Ho'okupu  'Aina,"  held  below 
and  on  Pu'ukohola  heiau,  followed  by  a  reception  at  nearby 
Spencer  Park.  Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs  of  Hawai'i  Island  presented 
the  pageant,  sponsored  by  The  Queen's  Hospital  trustees,   the 
Olohana  Corporation  and  the  National  Park  Service. 

23 


Ka'oana'eha,  Puna  and  L.C.A.   1*52237 

Kawaihae  Hikina  was  not  among  the  lands  confirmed  by  John  Young 
in  his  will  for  his  wife,  Ka'oana'eha.     Kawaihae  Hikina  was 
left  to  Keoni  Ana,  see  above.     But  Ka'oana'eha  was  in  residence 
at  Pahukanilua,   the  John  Young  Homestead  (lower  portion)  within 
the  ahupua'a  of  Kawaihae  Hikina.     Also  in  residence  at  Pahukanilua 
was   Ioba  Puna,   the  konohiki,  as  resident  land  manager  of  the 
ahupua'a.     In  her  later  years,  apparently  Ka'oana'eha,   like  John 
Young,  visited  at  the  home  of  her  physician  son-in-law,   Dr.  Rooke, 
in  Honolulu. 

Together,  Puna  and  Ka'oana'eha  applied  for  and  received  L.C.A.  1*522. 
The  active  agent  in  the  application  and  later  in  the  testimony 
ui  Kawaihae  va,c   Puna       The  application  was  made  on  January  6,   181*8$ 
testimony  was  taken  by  the  land  commissioners  at  Kawaihae  on 
September  11,   181*8;  and  the  formal  award  made  on  October  1,  18J>1, 
(21  months  after  Ka'oana'eha's  death)   to  Puna  and  Ka'oana'eha, 
in  that  order. 

L.C.A.   1*522  was  a  houselot  a  little  over  an  acre  in  size  whose 
borders  were  marked  by  a  stone  wall.     The  award  was  bounded  inland 
by  the   "government  pasture"  and  the  church  enclosure;  bounded  on 
the  PuakS  side  (to  the  south)  by  a  small  fishpond  and  the  stream 
Makeahua;  bounded  on  the  shore  side  by  the  main  beach  "road"; 
and  on  the  Kohala  side  (to  the  north)  by  the  stream  Makahuna  and 
Kaui's  houselot  (L.C.A.  1*106)  enclosure.     Stream  names  given  here 
are  the  modern  ones — see  Appendix  E.     The  houselot,    termed  a 
"Pahale"  in  the  award,   contained  five  houses  and  plants  and  was 
surrounded  by  L.C.A.   85l5:l.     Commutation  of  $6.00  was  paid, 
Drobably  by  Puna,  for  it  was  he  after  Ka'oana'eha's  death  who 
had  the  immediate  beneficial  possession. 38     Heirs  of  Ka'oana'eha 


37The  actual  Award  (L.C.A.  Vol.   ]*:626)  assigns  numbers   "1*522  to 
1*523."  Some  maps  and  documents  list  both  numbers.  However,  L.C.A, 
1*523  was  later  awarded  to  Wahinealii  and  was  located  at  Ke'ei, 
Kona,   Hawai'i.   This  report  has  standardized  on  L.C.A.   1*522. 
See  Native  Register  Vol.  8:57l*  for  the  1*523  award. 

38Native  Register  Vol.  8:6;  Native  Testimony  Vol.  l*:6-7. 
The  description  of  the  bounds  in  the  text  combines   the  verbal 
descriDtion  and  information  from  the  sketch  furnished  in  181*8 
with  the  apDlication. 


21* 


were  owners  of  an  undivided  half -interest,  but  Puna  and  his 
co-owner's  heirs  were  legally  mute  thereafter.  *°     No  Royal 
Patent  was  sought,  an  unusual  situation,  and  the  reason  for 
not  seeking  one  is  unknown. 

L.C.A.  U522  was  an  insignificant  piece  of  land  compared  to 
Ka ' oana » eha ' s  other  holdings  (see  Appendix  H).     Ka'oana'eha  died 
intestate  January  22,   18£0  before  land  commission  awards  and 
royal  patents  had  been  issued  for  her  lands.     No  probate  is  on 
record.     Her  lawful  heirs  were  Fanny  Kekela  Naea  (daughter); 
Grace  Kamaikui  Rooke  (daughter);  Jane  Lahilahi  Kaeo  (daughter); 
and  Keoni  Ana  (son).     Each  owned  one  quarter  interest.**0 
The  Land  Commission  Award  (L.C.A.   85l5B:l)  for  her  lands 
(confirmed  to  her  from  John  Young)   followed  her  death.     Keoni  Ana, 
as  Premier  of  the  Kingdom,  and  in  the  name  of  the  King 
("Inoa  Kamehameha") ,   issued  Royal  Patent  1665  to  Ka'oana'eha  for 
these  lands  on  October  18,   l85h,       four  years  after  her  death. 
Note  that  the  lands  mentioned  in  this  paragraph  do  not  include 
her  Pahukanilua  home. 

While  legally  mute,  at  least  one  heir  of  Ka'oana'eha   is  assumed 
to  have  made  beneficial  use  of  Pahukanilua.     Fanny  Kekela  Naea 
is  known  to  have  made  her  principal  residence  at  Lahaina,  Maui 
Island,  but  she  apparently  maintained  a  house  at  Pahukanilua — this 
is  "Old  Fanny  Young's  HS"  on  a  1903  map  of  Kawaihae  2.**2 
Queen  Emma,  Fanny's  daughter,  also  had  or  assumed  some  authority 
over  Pahukanilua,  for  she  collected  $60  for  a  year's   rent  from 
a  house  there  in  l86l.     One  room  of  her  house  in  i860  contained 
stored  items  deposited  there  for  safekeeping  by  George  Davis  Hueu, 
a  son  of  Isaac  Davis.     Queen  Emma's  agent  indicated  this  was  because 


^Trustees  of  The  Queen's  Hospital  may  have  paid  real  property 
taxes  on  L.C.A.  U£22  in  the  early  1900 's — one  obsolete  tax  map 
was  seen  which  listed  The  Queen's  Hospital  as  owner.  Such  payments, 
however,  had  stopped  before  the  1950' s — hence  the  attempt  by 
Dr.  Charles  Silva  to  title  through  adverse  possession.  Silva 
interview  Aug.   16,   1978. 

k°Kamoamoa:  memorandum  of  Title  re  Ahupua'a  of  Kamoamoa,  Puna, 
Hawai'i;  filed  with  Deed  8237,  Land  Office. 

^Royal  Patent,  Vol.  6:267. 

k2Loebenstein  1903  man;  Registered  Map  2230,   Survey  Office. 
See  Kelly  197U:17. 


25 


George  Davis  Hueu  had  a   claim  "on  the  House  of  Young"  and 
"the  room  was  wanted  for  nothing  else."k3     The  Queen  Emma   rent 
reference  in  l86l  and  the  Fanny  Young  house   identification 
of  1903  may  not  refer  to  the  same  house,  but  certainly   to 
Pahukanilua  and  houses  within  its  enclosed  lower  portion. 
Pahukanilua  was  the  sacred  housing  land  of  the  chiefly  Young 
family  just  as  Pelekane  (Figs.  2  and  O  was  the  sacred  housing 
land  of  the   royal  Kamehameha  family.^ 

Whatever  houses  stood  within  the  Pahukanilua  enclosure  in  1903 
were  gone  by  the  19$0's.     No  one  was  paying  the  real  estate 
taxes,  and  by  then  Pahukanilua 's  1.0$  acres  carried  Territorial 
tax  map  key  6-2-01-21.     Dr.   Charles  H.  Silva,  of  Honolulu, 
enroute  to  his  summer  home  at  Puako,   discovered  a  vacant  enclosure 
at  Kawalhae  without  an  apparent  owner.     Dr.  Silva  hired  a  local 
"Japanese  man"  to  build  a  house  in  the  enclosure.     The  man  then 
lived  in  it.     Dr.  Silva  began  to  pay  the  taxes — for  if  he  did 
so  openly  for  a  term  of  years  without  contest  he  could  claim 
ownership  through  Hawai'i *s  legal  process  of  adverse  possession. 
Before  the  necessary  years  were  up,  however,    the  house  lot  was 
condemned,   in  1958,  by  the  Territory  of  Hawai'i  for  deep  water 
port  improvements.     The  court  and  title  searchers  could  find  no 
conveyances  on  record  by  the  awardees,  Puna  and  Ka'oana'eha,   and 
could  find  no  probate  of   their  estates.*1?     Dr.   Silva,  with  a 
house  on  the  land  and  in  possession,   claimed  full  title.     But  so 
did  some  suddenly  revealed  heirs  of  Puna:     Violet  Marie  Pua, 
Matilda  (Mary)  Alfaoada  Palacio  and  her  brother,  a  Mr.  Alfapada. 
Hearings  under  Civil  Court  Case  276  (combined  with  21*5)  were 
held  in  Hilo.     The  final  order  of  condemnation  and  judgement 
awarded  $1*,000  to  the  heirs  of  Puna,  which  sum  included  up  to  $750 
to  Dr.  Silva  for  his   improvements  .U6     Title  to  L.C.A.  1*522  passed 
to  the  Territory  of  Hawai'i  on  January  7,   1959.      The  houselot  was 

k^Low  to  Webster,   Jan.  15,   l86l,   letter  books,    Interior  Department. 
Low  said  George   Davis  claimed  to  be  Makamaka  with  the  Young  family. 
i.e.,  an  intimate  friend  in  terms  of  receiving  and  giving  freely. 
There  is  no  record  of  the  identity  of  the   renter. 

W^Kelly  197U:l8-26. 

k^Notes  on  abstract  of  title,  L.C.A.   1*$22,  Long  and  Melone:  Silva 
interview  Aug.   16,   1978. 

^^Mary  Alfapada  Palacio  claims  descendency  from  Sam  Punakauwe, 
her  great  grandfather,  who  died  at  Kawaihae  in  Sept.   191*8. 
/Both  a  Puna  and  a  Kauwe  were  in  residence  at  Kawaihae  in  181*87. 
Sam  Punakauwe  lived  on  what  probably  was  L.C.A.   1*091:1  (Fig.  ^) , 
and  compensation  for  this  place  went  to  others.   The  Punakauwe 

26 


labeled   "Lot  19"  of  the  harbor  land-acquisition  project. 
The  John  Young  Homestead  (lower  portion)  became  a  part  of 
Parcel  E  of  the  harbor  project  and  lies  buried  in  1978  under 
a  fill  of  dredged  coral. 

Between  the  lower  and  upper  portions  of  the  John  Young  Homestead 
several  maps  show  a  lot  for  a  church. ^7     The  Rev.  Lorenzo  Lyons, 
ordained  Congregational  minister  who  headquartered  at  Waimea, 
had  at  various  times  up  to  17  branch  churches  under  his  jurisdiction., 
Kawaihae  was  one  of  them,  and  received  regular  visits.     A  nativo 
preacher  was  in  charge,  and  probably  doubled  as  school  teacher. 
(Akahi  was  the  name  of  the  school  teacher  ca.   181*3  at  Kawaihae.) 
In  his  183U  report,  Lyons   indicated  that  Kawaihae  had  a   "native  house 
of  worship"  that  was   "not  commodious,"  and  had  a  congregation  which 
varied  in  numbers  over  the  years  from  100  to  500.     By  1835, 
Kawaihae  had  a  mission,  school — one  of  up  to  79  adult  schools  under 
Lyons'   administration.^"     Schools  at  this  time  were  operated  by 
churches  and  enrolled  only  adults .     Usually  church  and  school 
occupied  the  same  building.      The  church  lot  on  the  maps   is  belr'eved 
to  be  the  location  of   the  church-school  building  from  before  1831* 
through  1859.     John  Young  must  have  at  least  verbally  authorized 
occupancy  of  a  location  between  the  separate  housing  complexes. 
The  location  indicates  approval  or  even  sponsorship  of   the  church 
and  school  as  an  institution  by  the  resident  land-holding  chief, 
and  then  perhaps  by  the  chief ess. 


house  was  wooden,    two-stories,  and  had  screened  enclosures 
for  windows.   It  was  well  remembered  by  Mrs.  Palacio.   There  was 
confusion  at  the  court  hearing  over  location  of  the  house 
remembered  by  Mrs„  Palacio  and  L.C.A.  1*522 .   The  house  she 
remembered,  and  the  pictures  of  it  shown  her  were  the  same,  but 
was  not  located  on  L.C.A.   1*522.  Mrs.  Palacio  claims  her  aunt 
Violet  Marie  Pua  (now  dead)   received  $1,000  compensation,  her 
brother  received  $300  and  she  received  $300,  all  for  L.C.A.  1*522 
land.  Silva  claims  to  have  received  $700  for  the  improvements 
on  L.C.A.   1*522.  Court  records  show  the  entire  $1*,000  was  paid, 
but  its  distribution  is  not  on  record. 

**70ne  is   "Portion  of  Kawaihae  2nd,"  /Nov.   19337  Reg.  Map  2959, 
Survey  Office;  another  is  portion  of  Tax  Key  Map  6:2:01,  pg.  69 
of  Kelly  1971*.   Reg.  Mao  2959  has  the  notation  on  the  original 
"Page  120  School  Grants,"  but  the  120  was  later  crossed  out  in 
pencil  and  11*0  substituted.  Searchers  at  the  State  Archives  and 
in  the  Land  Office  could  not  identify  the  source  for  "School  Grants." 

k0Lyons  1833-1859:  esp.  2nd  1831*  rpt.  :3  and  1835:1*. 


27 


OLD  WHARF 
(late  historic 


KAUHUHU  GULCH 

Modern 
Kawaihae 
\     Elementary 
\  School  Lot 


POHOPA'AKAI 


Kawaihae 


PAHUKANILUA ^ 


NORTH 


LAND  COMMISSION  AWARDS 
Kawaihae  Bay,  ca.  1850 

Figure  5 


PELEKAN 


0      200    400  GOO 

FEET 


In  18U3,   the  small  church  building  was   replaced  by  the 
Kawaihae  people.     The  new  one  was  larger  and  had  stone  walls. 
On  Sunday,  May  16,    1853,   one  of  the  Lyons  children  (probably 
Albert)  attended  the  181*3-1859  "native  church"  at  Kawaihae. 
He  described  it  as  being  of  stone  and  about  half  as  big  as   the 
church  building  at  Waimea.     (This  would  make  it  about  25  by  60 
feet  in  plan.     The  Kawaihae  church  roof  was  probably  of  thatched 
grass  and  would  have  been  reroofed  several  times  between  18U3 
and  1859).     The  Lyons  child  sat  on  a  bench  with  the  George  Davis 
Hueu  family,  but  the  rest  of  the  congregation  sat  on  mats  spread 
on  small  pebbles  on  top  of  the  ground.     Women  wore  black  bonnets 
and  holoku  (loose,  seamed  dresses  patterned  after  the  Mother 
Hubbards   of  the  missionary  women).     Some  of  the  men  wore  shawls 
and  loin  cloths. ^9     Later  in  1853,  after  Kawaihae  had  experienced 
a  small  pox  epidemic,   Lyons  wrote  that  the   "Meeting  House  /was7 
most  desolate.     As  I  gazed  on  the  few  that  had  escaped  the 
pestilence   ..."     He  counted  100  communicants   in  April  1853, 
but  by  the  end  of  the  year  "there  were  but  twenty-four,  and  not 
a  youth  among  them."50     As  a  port,  Kawaihae  had  obviously  been 
exposed  to   the  contageous  disease,   perhaps  by  a  way  of  Honolulu, 
and  may  have  experienced  a  high  death  rate,  as  had  Honolulu 
in  1853."     The  death  rate  may  have  been  higher  than  in  Honolulu, 
for  Kawaihae  had  no  physicians  or  public  health  facilities. 

Kawalhae's  last  Congregational  church  building  was  in  a  new 
location.     It  was  built  in  1858  by  Kawaihae  Congregationalists 
to  SDecif ications  drawn  up  by  Lyons.     The  new  location  put  the 
church  on  the  hill  which  overlooked  Kawaihae  Bay  and  it  was   in 
almost  a  position  as  prominent  as   the  John  Young  Homestead, 
upner  portion,  had  been  ca.   1800.     The  new  location  was  the  brow 
of   the  hill  just  inland  of  L.C.A.  9971,   see  Fig.   $.     The  last 
building  was  razed  in  1959,   coincident  with  the  harbor  project. 

Besides  prominence  and  more  breeze,   there  may  have  been  additional 
reasons  for  a  change  of  location  for  Kawaihae's  Congregational 
Church  building.     The  new  building  stood  on  the  ahupua'a  of 
Kawaihae  Komohana- -crown  land.     The  old  building  stood  on  Kawaihae 
Hikina,  which  was  by  1858  the  private  property  of  Queen  Emma. 


"To 

Lyons  19l*5 :172 .    Ihiola   church  at  Waimea   in  1853  was  about  125 

by  50  feet.  Sandwich  Island  Mission:  Minutes  of  General  Meeting, 

181*3,  P.  III.  Lee  1969:5. 

^°Lyons  191*5:159;  Lyons  1833 -1859. 

^Kuykendall  1957:I:I|12. 

29 


The  Queen,  with  her  husband  Kamehameha   IV,  was  introducing  to 
the   Islands  the  Hawaiian  Reformed  Catholic  Church,  a  branch  of 
the  Anglican  Church  under  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury .52 
The  Queen  posed  a   threat  to  an  institution  of  which  she  did  not 
approve.     The  old  building  illegally  squatted  behind  her  house 
at  Pahukanilua  and  on  her  private  land.      Crown  land  was  politi- 
cally safer,  for  the  King  was  less  likely  to  evict  an  institution 
which  was  still  politically  potent,  even  though  it  was  out  of 
royal  favor.     Then  too,   Kamehameha   IV  held  crown  land  only  by 
virtue  of  his  occupancy  of  the   throne.      Crown  land  was  not 
exactly  private  property. 

To  dedicate   the  new  building  and  physically  transfer  its  function 
from  the  old  building  and  site,  a  celebration  which  included  a 
feast  was  held  on  January  13,   1859.     About  300  people,    including 
some  from  Waimea,  attended.     The  group  formed  a  large  circle  on 
the  old  church  lot,  behind  Pahukanilua,    for  speeches,   prayers  and 
recitation  of  an  original  ode.     Part  of  the  celebration  was   the 
burial  of  a   conch-shell  trumpet  which  "...  for  k0  years  served 
to  call  the  people  to  school  and  to  meeting,  for  which  services 
he  must  needs  be  strangled  and  buried  and  hence  put  to  silence 
forever."     A  bell  was  to  be  part  of  the  new  church  building. 
An  iron  hoop,   struck  by  stone  or  hammer,  sounded  the  call  until 
the  bell  was  installed. 

From  the   circle  near  Pahukanilua,    the  congregation  formed  into 
marching  order  led  by  flutes  and  flags.     At  Pu'ukohola"  Heiau 
there  were  speeches,   singing  and  prayer. 

The  procession  then  retired  to  the  recent 
place  of  worship  where  a  farewell  address 
was  delivered  in  which  touching  allusions 
were  made  to  the  original  founders  now 
deceased,  an  original  hymn  sung  and  prayers 
offered- -and  then  the  whole  company  of 
residents  and  strangers    .    .    .  ascended  the 
radiant_hill  of  Keola  Hou  the  name  of  the 
new  ch^urcTh,    .    .    .53 

52Kuykendall  1966:II:8U-99.   The  Rev.   Thomas  Nettleship  Staley  was 
consecrated  the  first  Anglican  Bishop  of  Honolulu  in  Canterbury 
Cathedral,   London,  and  arrived  in  Honolulu  on  Oct.   11,   1862 . 

^3Lyons  19l*5:l6l;   Lyons   1859:7-9;   Lyons  1855:2  reoorts   that  the 
people  of  Kawaihae  collected  several  thousand  dollars  from  selling 


30 


As  part  of  L.C.A.   85l5:l,   the  Church  and  School  Lot  followed  the 
same  history  as  detailed  in  "Keoni  Ana  and  L.C.A.  85l5:l"  above. 
The  lot  became  part  of  Parcel  E  of  the  Kawaihae  harbor  project 
in  1959,  but  may  not  be  completely  buried  under  dredged  coral 
fill  and  the  roadbed  of  the  modern  highway,  State  route  26. 

Figure  3  of  this   report  and  several  tax  key  and  other  maps  show 
School  Grant  13  O  located  in  Kawaihae  1,  and  on  the  opposite 
side  of  Makahuna  gulch  from  the  John  Young  Homestead,  upper 
portion.-**1     Curtis  J.  Lyons,   son  of  the   Rev.   Lorenzo  Lyons, 
surveyed  the  school  grant  on  November  23,   1853.     Premier  Keoni 
Ana  approved  it,  as  did  (the  Rev.)  Richard  Armstrong,  Minister 
of  Public  Instruction.     By  1853,  education  was  no  longer  left 
exclusively  to  the  Congregational,   Roman  Catholic  and  Mormon 
Churches,  although  their  educational  activities  were  partially 
government  supported.     More  and  more  responsibility  for  educa- 
tion was  being  directly  assumed  by  the  Kingdom. "     King  Kalakaua 
issued  a  patent,  School  Grant  13,  part  3  (13:3)  on  September  30, 
1882  to  the  Board  of  Education  to  clear  title  to  the  land  as   it 
was  no  longer  needed  for  school  purposes,  and  was  being  transferred 
from  Board  of  Education  jurisdiction. 56     Note  that  the  stone  wall 
which  surrounded  the  school  lot  did  not  coincide  with  the 
surveyed  boundaries.     A  later  school  site,   the   "Kawaihae  Elem. 
School  Lot"  is  shown  on  Figure  5.     It  is  assumed  that  a  school 
was  on  what  became  School  Grant  13:3  frcm  ca.  1853  to  sometime 
before  1882.     School  activities  at  Kawaihae  appear  to  have  moved 
from  the  old  church  lot  at  Pahukanilua,   to  what  became  School 
Grant  13:3,   then  to  the  northern  end  of  Kawaihae  beach  by  1885, 
as  shown  by  McDonald's  map.     The  move  was  from  private  to 
crown  land. 


Irish  potatoes  in  1855,  but  the  proceeds  did  not  show  up  in  the 
collection  plates.  Again  in  1859,  Lyons  reports  that  sweet  potatoes 
brought  Kawaihae  people  $7,000,  but  that  no  one  knew  where  the 
money  went.  See  also  Lee  1969  for  a  history  of  the  Kawaihae  church. 

^Such  as  registered  maps  2690  (191U)  and  2958  (1933),  State 
Survey  Office. 

^Kuykendall  1966:11:351-367. 

5°The  patent  was  issued  under  an  act:  To  Authorize  the  Issuance 
of  Royal  Patents  for  Schools  lands  and  School  Sites,  Sold  by  the 
Board  of  Education."  The  Hawaiian  name  of  the  lot  was  "Kahuahale 
Kula  ma  Kawaihae"  (the  school  lot  at  Kawaihae). 


31 


In  her  197U  study,  Kelly  refers  to  a  local  Kawaihae  tradition 
of  a  Roman  Catholic  school  on  the  brow  of  the  hill  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  John  Young  Homestead  (upper  portion)   and  School 
Grant  13:3.     Kelly  suggests  that  the   Catholic  school  may  have 
occupied  the  structures  on  the  homestead's  upper  portion  after 
the  death  of  John  Young  in  183£,  but  thought  that  the  homestead 
may  have  been  on  what  became  School  Grant  13:3. 

No  record  could  be  found  of  any  direct  Catholic  activity 
at  Kawaihae.     However,  Fr.  Walsh,  during  a  one-month  stay  at 
Waimea--March  l8hl--established  a  mission  there.     (Eventually  a 
chapel  was  built  at  Waimea).      In  November  l8Ul,  Fr.   Lebret  was 
assigned  full  time  to  the  Kohala  District.     After  December  181*2, 
his  parish  also  included  the  districts  of  Hamakua  and  Hilo 
(?ec  Fig.   IB). 5°     Lyons,    in  l8£8,   mentions  that  there  were  Roman 
Catholic  teachers  about.?9 

Keoni  Ana,  who  owned  Kawaihae  Hikina  ca.   I8I4I,  might  have  permitted 
a   Catholic  school  on  his  land  even  in  his  father's  houses.     There  is 
no  indication  of  any  strong  Protestant  support  on  his  part. 
Queen  Emma,  who  owned  Kawaihae  Hikina  by  18£8,  supported  the 
Anglican  church.     She  was  anti-Congregationalist,   anti-American, 
and  judged  by  the  title  (Hawaiian  Reformed  Catholic  Church)   of 
the  institution  she  helped  introduce,  was  also  anti-Roman  Catholic. 
Queen  Emma  (and  later,    the  trustees  of  her  estate)  probably  would 
not  have  knowingly  permitted  a  Roman  Catholic  school  on  her 
Kawaihae  land.     What  became  School  Grant  13:3  probably  held  a 
government  school,  but  it  could  have  held  Catholic  and  government 
schools   in  succession.     Lack  of  documentation  does  not  preclude 
a   Catholic  school  at  Kawaihae.     A  Roman  Catholic  catechist  or 
teacher  may  have  been  present  for  a  time.     Even  though  Kawaihae 
was  a  relatively  small  community,   it  was  a  port  and  cotxld  have 
attracted  some  passing  Catholic  attention. 


Lyons  House lot 

The  Rev.    Lorenzo  Lyons  visited  Kawaihae,  where  one  of  his  branch 

churches  was   located,   up  to  four  times  a  year.     But  Kawaihae  was 

also  a  port,  and  used  by  Lyons  for  trips  off-island  to  and  from 


^7Kelly  197*1 :  71. 
^Yzendoorn  1927:182-181*. 
5QLyons  18^8:10. 


32 


his  home  mission  station  inland  at  Waimea.     Some  of  his  waits 
at  Kawaihae  for  vessels   lasted  for  weeks.     While  at  Kawaihae, 
Lyons  preached,  visited  in  almost  all  of  the  houses,  and  on  one 
visit  while  waiting  for  a  ship,   suspended  seven  church  members. "0 
Because  of  his  need  to  spend  protracted  times  at  Kawaihae,  Lyons 
maintained  a  house  there  on  the  beach.     His  occupancy  of  the  land 
was  obviously  authorized  by  John  Young  and/or  Ka'oana'eha. 
The  location  of  the  Lyons  Houselot  is  shown  on  Fig.   3.     One  corner 
of  L.C.A.   1*103  was  modified  to  exclude  the  Lyons  house. "1     It  has 
not  been  possible   to  document  terminal  dates  for  the  house  except 
to  note  that  it  was  in  existence  by  18U7,  was  there  in  l8£3,  was 
probably  not  there  by  1883,  and  was  certainly  gone  before  the 
Loebenstein  map  of  1903. 

One  of  the  Lyons  children  (Albert?)  described  the  Lyons'   house 
at  Kawaihae  in  1853.     The  family  moved  down  to  await  passage 
on  a  vessel.     Curtis  Lyons,   one  of   the  sons,  had  gone  down  ahead 
to  open  the  house  for  family  occupancy.     The  Lyons  family  arrived 
on  May  lU,   18£3,  after  riding  in  a  cart  pulled  by  five  yoke  of 
oxen,  which  took  two  men  to  drive. 

Lyons'  house  had  thick  adobe  walls  which  were  plastered  inside  and 
out.     The  roof  was  thatched  and  was  of  hipped  style.     There  were 
two  windows  (no  glass,  but  there  were  shutters)  and  a  door. 
In  front  was  a  level  spot  covered  with  pebbles.     The  adjacent 
beach  was  of  black  sand.     A  prevalent  ground  cover  was   "nohu" 
(Tribus  c  is  to  ides) ,  a  prostrate  hairy,  beach  perennial  with  spiny, 
dry  fruits.     There  was  a  fireplace  outside  the  house. 


60Lyons  181*1,  May. 

"l-The  Lyons  houselot  location  is  shown  on  the  drawing  which  accom- 
panied the  application  for  L.C.A.  1*103  by  Kahunaliiole,  Jan.   10, 
181*7.  Native  Register  Vol.  8:3.  Jackson's  chart  of  1883  (Kelly 
197U:13)   shows  it  as  attached  to  L.C.A.   1*5>22 — obviously  confused 
with  L.C.A.   1*106.  By  1883,   the  site  occupied  by  Lyons  houselot 
was  a  fork  in  the  road,  which  shows  clearly  on  some  modern  tax 
key  maps.   The  Jackson  chart  of  1883  and  the  McDonald  1891  chart 
are  considered  to  be  unrealiable  as  far  as  features  on  land  are 
concerned.  McDonald  appears  to  have  copied,  at  least  in  part, 
from  Jackson.   The  Jackson  chart  appears  to  have  offset  to  the 
north  the  gulches  and  other  features  along  the  brow  of  the  hill 
behind  the  beach. 


33 


Inside  were  boxes  for  chairs  and  woven  sleeping  mats.     Curtis  had 
spread  fresh  pili  (grass)  under  them.     When  the  Lyons'   well  water 
turned  brackish,   drinking  water  was  secured  from  a  hole  in  the 
rocks   in  a   ravine  about  a  half  a  mile  away.      "The  water  has   green 
scum  and  it  is  where  the  natives  wash  their  clothes,"  the  son  wrote, 
The  ground  at  Kawaihae  was  so  hot,   according  to  the  son,    that 
his  feet  burned. 

No  land  commission  award  was  sought  for  the  Lyons  Houselot. 
As  part  of  L.C.A.   8£l!>:l,   the  lot  followed  the  same  history  as 
detailed  in  "Keoni  Ana  and  L.C.A.   8£l5:l"  above.     The  lot  became 
part  of  Parcel  E  of  the  19^9  harbor  project. 


'■'  at  or  near  Pahukanilua 

A  combination  of  three,   and  perhaps  four,   references  confirm 
that  a  fishpond  existed  at  or  near  Pahukanilua  from  before  1819 
and  at  least  through  I81j8  (see  Figs.  2  and  3).     Makeahua  gulch 
was   its   intermittent  source  of  fresh  water,  perhaps  assisted  by 
a  few  brackish-water  springs.     Salt  water,  however,  was  its 
primary  content,  with  access  to  the  sea  for  fish  controlled  by 
a  named  MakahS,  or  sluice  grate.     This  pond  would  have  been  of 
the  Loko  Wai  type,   and  its  principal  products  were  probably  mullet 
and  milkfish.63     The  pond  at  or  near  Pahukanilua  at  Kawaihae  would 
be  a  minor  pond  compared  to  those  on  the  Kona  coast.      Its  supply 
of  harvestable  fish  was  probably  low  and  uncertain. 

Duperrey  charted  the  pond  in  1819;  ^  a  pond  in  this  location  was 
indicated  on  the  drawing  submitted  as  part  of  the  application 


62 Lyons   19US : 169 - 172 . 

"^See  Apple  and  Kikuchi  1975>:7-61j  for  background  on  ancient 
Hawaiian  fishponds  and  their  products.   The  Loko  Wai  type  is 
described  on  page  10. 

"^Duperrey  l8lP.   The  Duperrey  chart  shows  a  lake  or  pond  in  this 
location  in  1819.  His  chart  also  shows  John  Young  Homestead 
(upper  portion)    to  be  about  1,280  feet  north  of  its  known  location. 
This   is  probably  mislabeling  by  Duperrey,   for  he  shows  a  house 
in  about  the  proper  location.   See  Healy  19£9:5l-5h  for  a  discussion 
and  reproduction  of  the  chart;  see  Kelly  1971*:  12  for  reproduction 
of  an  enlarged  section,  but  without  scale.   The  pond's   location 
is   supported  by  other  data;   the  John  Young  Homestead  location  is 
refuted  by  other  data. 

3U 


for  L.C.A.   I4522  in  18U8;°5  an<j  a  Kama'aina  witness  on  boundary 

matters   in  I876  gave  the  name  of  its  makaha  as  Kahu'ai.°° 

The  fourth  reference,   1853,    is  by  the  Lyons'    son,  with  his 

mention  of  a  salt  water  pond  at  the  mouth  of  a  dry  ravine 

at  Kawaihae.     He  could  have  meant  the  pond  near  the  salt  pans 

at  Kauhuhu,  or  it  could  have  been  adjacent  to  the  Lyons  houselot.    ' 


Adjacent  Land  Commission  Awards 
(see  Figs.  3  and  5) 

Land  Commission  Awards  clustered  around  the  John  Young  Homestead 
(lower  portion)  were  four.     They  were  L.C.A.'s  3668:1  and  1*101 
in  Kawaihae  Komohanaj  and  Ul03  and  Ul06  in  Kawaihae  Hikina. 
John  Young  and/or  Ka'oana'eha  authorized  occupancy  of  these 
houselots  for  the  tenants  who  later  applied  for  and  received  the 
awards  and  royal  patents.     Information  in  addition  to  that  given 
here  for  these  tenants  and  houselots  is  found  in  Appendix  F. 

The  four  houselots  are  linked  by  their  juxtaposition,  by  their 
pre-l850  occupancy  authorizations,  by  land  awards  all  made  the 
same  day  (July  22,   l85l),  and  by  their  common  history  after  1935- 
For  the  85  years  between  18£0  and  1935,   the  houselots  had 
diverse  histories. 

L.CoA.  UlOl  was  awarded  to  Kahananui.      Royal  Patent  6385  was 
granted  on  June  17,  1873.     The  certificate  of  title  issued  by 
the  title  abstractors  indicates  an  unbroken  chain  of  ownerships 
from  Kahananui  to  the  owner  of  the  Parker  Ranch,  Annie  T.  K. 
Parker  before  1912.     No  details  of  this  chain  could  be  found  in 
the  abstractors'   files.     The  houselot  is  specifically  listed 
among  those  lands  entrusted,. to  Annie  Parker's  trustee,  Alfred  W. 
Carter  on  August  25,  1912  .^ 


^Application  of  Jan.  6,   18U8  by  Puna  and  Ka'oana'eha.  Native 
Register  Vol.  8:6. 

66wahinenui  1876:393. 

6?Lyons  19li5:l69. 

68l,CoA.  lilOl— notes  on  abstract  of  title,   Long  and  Me  lone  1978; 
certificate  of  Title  to  Richard  Smart  filed  with  Deed  15997,   Land 
Office;  Trust  Deed,  Annie  Parker  to  A.  W.  Carter,  Aug.  25,   1912, 
Book  365:273-279,  Bureau  of  Conveyances. 


35 


L.C.A.   U103  was  awarded  to  J.  P.  Kaahunaliiole,   probably  the 
government  pilot  for  the  port  of  Kawaihae.     Royal  Patent  1*929 
was  granted  on  August  1,   1861.     Hie  title  abstract  does  not 
indicate  the  link  between  Kaahunaliiole  and  Keokikepa,  but 
on  January  19,   1868,  Keokikepa  sold  one  half  interest  in  the 
lot  to  Ashford  Spencer.     On  November  Lh,   1868,  Ashford  Spender 
transferred  his  one  half  interest  to  Frances  Tasmania  Spencer, 
who  on  the  same  date  acquired  from  Keokikepa  the  remaining 
half  interest.     Frances  Tasmania  Spencer,  on  October  31,   3 876, 
transferred  title  to  Francis  MacFarlane  Spencer,  who,  on 
March  20,    1913,   transferred  title  of  the  houselot  to  the  owner 
of  the  Parker  Ranch  through  the  owner's  trustee.  " 

L.C.A.   iil06  was  awarded  to  Kaui.     Royal  Patent  £098  was  granted 
oi     "er>te*nber  19,    ",8<cv>.     It  is  unknown  how  the  title  passed  to 
the  owner  oi  the  Parker  Ranch,  but  was  probably  included  without 
specific  mention  in  the   "and  all  other  property  belonging  to  me" 
statement  of  December  20,   1879,  when  Annie  T.  K.  Parker,   gave 
power  of  attorney  to  A.  Hartwell  Carter.      This  means   that 
either  she  or  her  immediate  ancestors,  who  also  owned  the 
Parker  Ranch,  probably  acquired  it  before  1879,  without  recording 
the  deed. ^c 

L.C.A.  3668:1  was  awarded  to  David  Manuia.     Royal  Patent  5$lh 
was  granted  on  February  6,   188£.     Manuia  left  the  houselot  to 
his  daughter,  K.  Laika  Keliiwaiwaiole,  wife  of  M.  Keliiaa. 
This  was  done  through  his  will  dated  January  2,   1889.     On  record 
is  a  ten  year  lease,   signed  by  Laika  and  her  husband,  starting 
October  15,   I896,   to  the  then  owner  of  the  Parker  Ranch, 
Samuel  Parker.     It  is  known  that  John  Palmer  Parker  II,  uncle 
of  Samuel,  was  in  occasional  residence  on  the  houselot  in  I876, 
and  called  it  "his"  beach  house.     This  was  Hanakahi,   the  beach 
houselot  of  the  Parker  family.     As  remembered  in  1978,  Hanakahi 
held  a   large  house  of  stone,   (the  I876  boundary  hearings  were 
held  in  it),  plus  several,  and  perhaps  three,  wooden  structures. 
There  were  many  coconut  trees  and  the  lot  was  enclosed  by  a 
stone  wall. ?! 


""l.C.A.   1*103 — notes  on  abstract  of  title,  Long  and  Melone  1978; 
Certificate  of  Title  to  Richard  Smart  filed  with  Deed  l58£8, 
Land  Office. 

7°L.C.A.   Ijl06--notes  on  abstract  of  title,  Long  and  Melone  1978; 
Certificate  of  Title  to  Richard  Smart  filed  with  Deed  1^955, 
Land  Office. 

^Interviews,    June  20,   1978,   by  Apple  with  Ralph  King  (Parker 
Ranch  land  office)  and  Sam  Hook  (Kawaihae  kama'aina). 

36 


A  widow  by  1913,   Laika  transferred  her  title  of  L.C.A.  3668:1 
(and  of  3668:2)   to  John  Vivichaves  on  December  23,   1913;  and 
Vivichaves  transferred  it  to  the  Henry  Waterhouse  Trust  Co. 
Ltd.,   on  February  7,   1918.     One  or  more  foreclosures  of  mortgages 
may  have  been  involved.     On  March  29,   1935,   the  Waterhouse  Trust 
Company  transferred  the  houselot  to  the  owner  of  the  Parker  Ranch, 
Annie  T.  K.  Parker,   through  her  trustee.' 

Thus  by  1935,  ownership  of  the  four  houselots  adjacent  to  the 
lower  portion  of  the  John  Young  Homestead  was  consolidated  with 
title  vested  in  Annie  T.  K.  Parker.     Beach  land  at  Kawaihae  was 
desired  by  the  Parker  Ranch,  for  Kawaihae  was  the  nearest  port. 
By  1959,    the  ranch,  primarily  through  long-time  activities  of 
the  Carter  family  (whose  members   in  succession  were  trustees  for 
the  ranch  owners)  had  acquired  title  to  many  of  the  land  commission 
awards  and  later  governmental  grants  of  land  along  Kawaihae  beach. 
Such  ownerships  supported  shipments  and  passages  to  and  from  the 
inland  cattle  and  sheep  ranch.     The  port  of  Kawaihae  gave   the 
ranch  access  to  markets  and  supplies. 

When  Annie  T.  K.  Parker  died,   title  to  her  lands  passed  to  her 
son  and  heir,   Richard  Palmer  Smart.     Alfred  Carter,  Jr.,   the 
last  trustee,  ended  the  trusteeship  on  November  20,   19ii3,  with 
the  transfer  of  all  assets  to  Richard  Smart. 

In  1959,    the  long  anticipated  Kawaihae  harbor  project  was  underway. 
Beach  land  was  needed  for  the  construction.     The  four  houselots, 
together  with  other  small  tracts  of  land  owned  by  Smart  and  others 
along  Kawaihae  beach,  were  named  in  condemnation  precedings 
started  by  the  Territory  of  Hawai'i  in  1958.     Early  in  the  pro- 
ceedings, L.C.A.'s  Ul03,   Ul06,  and  3668:1  were  dropped  from  the 
condemnation  suits,  which  left  only  L.C.A.  lilOl  to  be  condemned. 
Final  order  of  condemnation  in  Civil  cases  2kS  and  276,   combined, 
awarded  Richard  Smart  $1,035  as  just  compensation  for  L.C.A.   Ijl01.73 


'  L.C.A.  3668:1 — notes  on  abstract  of  title,  Manuia  probate  was 
No.  2607,  Feb.   8,   1889,  Long  and  Melone  1978;  Certificate  of  Title 
to  Richard  Smart  filed  with  Deed  15956,  Land  Office. 

73L.C.A.  U101— Deed  15997,   Jan.  30,   1959,   Land  Office.  L.C.A. 
UlOl  was  identified  as  Tax  Map  Key  6-01-02-36,  was  known  as 
Parcel  1  of  the  land  acquisition  program  for  Kawaihae  harbor, 
and  became  part  of  Parcel  E  of  Governor's  Executive  Order  1988, 
Dec.  12,   1961,  which  dedicated  the  land  for  harbor  purposes. 


37 


L.C.A.'s  1*103,  1*106,  and  3668:1  were  removed  from  the  condemna- 
tion proceedings,  along  with  other  beach  lots  owned  by  Smart, 
to  become  involved  in  a  complex  land  exchange  program  between 
Smart  and  the  Territory  of  Hawai'i. 

In  1910,    the  U.   S.    Congress  limited  the  Territory  of  Hawai'i 
to  land  exchanges  of  under  1*0  acres  in  size;  required  approval 
of  exchanges  by  two-thirds  of  the  members  of  the  Territorial 
board  of  public  lands;  and  required  that  exchanges   could  only 
be  made  for  direct  public  use.7u     in  the  1959  Kawaihae  case, 
the  Territory  broke  up  the  land  exchanges  with  Smart  into 
packages  of  under  1*0  acres  each.     The  other  requirements  were 
also  met.     Some  of   the  exchanges   involved  Smart-Territorial 
land  only   in  the  Waimea  vicinity,  and  some  involved  exchanges 
of  Smart-owne^  lots  ?lon<?  Kawaihae  beach  for  Territorial  land 
ao  or  near  Vvaimtsa,    w^e  Parser  rt&i».oii  Headquarters. 

L.C.A.  1*103  was  part  of  Smart's   land  holdings  at  Kawaihae  which 
were  exchanged  for  Territorial  lots  in  the  Kamuela  Village 
at  Waimea. 7?     L.C.A.  1*106  was  part  of  Smart's  land  holdings  at 
Kawaihae  which  were  exchanged  for  Territorial  lands  at  Pu'ukapu, 
Lalamilo  and  Waimea. 76     L.C.A.   3668:1  was  part  of  Smart's  land 
holdings  at  Kawaihae  exchanged  for  Territorial  land  at  Kalua'ana, 
Waimea. 77     In  1978,  L.C.A.'s  1*101,   1*106,   and  3668:1  are  buried 
under  a  fill  of  dredged  coral  and/or  under  State  Highway  26; 
and  1*103  is  in  great  part  uncovered  land,  but  heavily  vegetated 
with  non-native  shrubs  and  trees.     A  portion  of  the  new  trail 
(1977)  between  Pelekane  and  the  upper  portion  of  the  John  young 
Homestead  crosses  L.C.A.    1*103. 


^Horwitz  1961* :21.  See  also  Apple  1951*:62,   79,  and  Horwitz  1961* 
for  additional  information  on  land  exchanges. 

7^L.C.A.   1*103— Deed  15858,  Aoril  16,   1959,  Land  Office.  L.C.A. 
1*103  was  identified  as  Tax  Map  Key  6-02-01-20,  was  known  as 
Parcel  20  of  the  land  acquisition  program  for  Kawaihae  harbor, 
and  became  part  of  Parcel  E  of  Governor's  Executive  Order  1988. 

76l.C.A.  1*106— Deed  15955,   July  2,   1959,   Land  Office.  L.C.A.   1*106 
was   identified  as  Tax  Map  Key  6-02-01-22,  was  known  as  Parcel  18 
of  the  land  acquisition  program  for  Kawaihae  harbor,  and  became 
part  of  Parcel  E  of  Governor's  Executive  Order  1988. 

77L.C.A.   3668:1--Deed  15956,   July  2,   1959,    Land  Office.  L.C.A. 
3668:1  was  identified  as  Tax  Map  Key  6-01-01-37,  was  known  as 
Parcel  2  of  the  land  acquisition  program  for  Kawaihae  harbor, 
and  became  part  of  Parcel  E  of  Governor's  Executive  Order  1988. 

38 


APPENDIX  A 
YOUNG  FAMILY  GENEOLOGY 


KEOUA  +(k) 

Kekuiapoiwa    +(w) 


1.  KAMEHAMEHA  I  +(k) 
Keopulani  +(w) 


1.  KAM.   II  -  LIHOLIHO  +(k) NO  ISSUE 

Kinau  (w)  Kekauluohi  +(w) 
Pauhi  (w)  Kamamalu       +(w) 

2.  KAM.   Ill  -  KAUIKEAOULI  +(k) NO  ISSUE 

Kalama  +(w) 

KEAWEAWEUEAOKALANI  +(k)   Died  young 

2  or  3  mos.  old. 


3.  NAHIENAENA  +(w), 

William  P.  Leleiohoku  +(k)" 

William  P.  Leleiohoku  +(k) 

Ruth  Keelikolani  +(w) 


NO   ISSUE 


JOHN  WM.  PITT  KINAU  +(k)   Died  young 


2.     KELIIMAIKAI*        +(k) 
Kalikookalani  +(w) 


1.  KEKUAOKAIANI  +(k) NO  ISSUE 

Manono  +(w) 

2.  KAOANAEHA  -  Mary  Kuamoo     +(w)  d.   l/22/£0 

John  Young  Sr.  Olohana  +(k)  d.  12/16/35 


♦also  known  as 
Ka-lani-malokuloku-i-ka-poo 

(k)   =  Kane  =  Male 
(w)    =  Wahine  =  Female 


1.  FANNY  KEKELA  YOUNG  +(w)   d.   7 A/80 

George  Naea  +(k)   d.  10/2 /5h 

d.   U/2^/85 

EMMA  KALELEONALANI       +(w).    .    . 
KAM.  IV  -  Alexander  Liholiho  +(k) 
d.  11/30/63 

ALBERT  EDW. 
KAUIKEAOULI  +(k) 
d.  8/19/62 

2.  GRACE  KAMAIKUI  YOUNG  +(w)   d.  7/2S/66 

Dr.  T.  B.  C.  Rooke  +(k)  d.  11/28/58 


NO   ISSUE 
ADOPTED. 


39 


3.     KEONI  ANA- J.  YOUNG  JR.    +(k)   d.   7/18/57 
Alapai  +(w)  d.   8/2A9 

NO   ISSUE 

ADOPTED 


k.     JANE  LAHILAHI  YOUNG  +(w) 

Joshua  Kaeo      +(0  d.  6/27/58 


1.     PETER  YOUNG  KAEO   +(k) 
d.   12/26/80 


Died  unmarried 
Adopted  by:     Keoni  Ana 

d.  1/12/62 
JANE  LAHILAHI  YOUNG     +(w) 
Kauiker.ouli  &  Kaeo   +(k) 

2.     KELIMAI  KAI   +(k)   d.   10/15/51. 

/  Died  Young 

Twins  Adopted  by :     James  Young 

Kanehoa 

d.  3/10/03 
^3.  ALBERT  K.  KUNUIAKEA  +(k) 
Mary  Lonokahikini  +(w) 
d.  U/6/0I* 

NO  ISSUE 


Geneology  of JOHN  YOUNG  SR alias  OLOHANA 

JOHN  YOUNG  SR.  OLOHANA  +(k) 
Namokuelua  +(w) 

1.  ROBERT  YOUNG 

2.  JAMES  YOUNG  KANEHOA   +(k)   d.   10/1/51 NO   ISSUE 

Sarah   Davis  +(w)  ADOPTED. 

Hikoni  (Kahale)        +(w) 


JOHN  YOUNG  SR.  OLOHANA  +(k) 

Kaoanaeha   -  Mary  Kuamoo  +(w) 


Uo 


1.  FANNY  KEKELA  YOUNG  +(w)   d.   7 A/80 

George  Naea  +(k)   d.   10/2 AU 

EMMA  KALELEONALANI        +(w)   d.   h/25/85 

Alexander  Liholiho   +(k)  d.   11/30/63 

ALBERT  EDW.  KAIJTKEAOULI  +(k)   d.   8/19/62 

2.  GRACE  KAMAIKUI  YOUNG  +(w)   d.   7/25/66 

Dr.   T.  B.   C.   Rooke   +(k)   d.   11/28/58 

NO  ISSUE 

ADOPTED  

3.  KEONI  ANA- J.  YOUNG  JR.    +(k)   d.   7/18/57 

Alapai  +(w)   d.   8/2 /k9 

NO  ISSUE 

ADOPTED , 

li.      JANE  LAHHAHI  YOUNG  +(w) 

Joshua  Kaeo  +(k)  d.  6/27/58 

1.     PETER  YOUNG  KAEO  +(k)  d.  12/26/80  .    .    .    .    , 

Died  unmarried 
Adopted  by:     Keoni  Ana 

JANE  LAHILAHI  YOUNG  +(w)   d.   1/12/62 
Kauikeaouli  &  Kaeo   +(k) 

y2.     KELIIMADXAI  +(k)   d.   10/15/51 

Twins  Died  young 

\  Adopted  by:     James  Young  Kanehoa 

\.     ALBERT  K.  KUNUIAKEA  +(k)  d.   3/10/03 
Mary   Lonokahikini  +(w)  d.   U/6/0U 

NO   ISSUE 


1»1 


APPENDIX  B 
The  Great  Mahele 


During  the  Itl  days  of  the  Great  Mahele,  King  Kamehameha  III 
signed  his   royal  name  2^1  times. 

Each  royal  signature  confirmed  a  mahele,  a  division,  an 
apportionment  of  his  land  between  himself  and  each  of  2^1  chiefs 
and  chief esses. 

During  those  Ul  days,  each  of  the  2^1  ali'i  signed  once. 

Lands,   identified  by  placename  only  in  each  of  the  2£l  divisions, 
on  the  left  hand  page  of  the  Mahele  Book  stayed  with  the  king: 
lands  (again  identified  by  placename  only)  on  the  right  hand 
page  went  to  the  chief  or  chief  ess  who  signed. 

This  was  the  Great  Mahele,   no  more,   no  less. 

Historians   today  often  lump  into  the  term  "Great  Mahele"  all 
the  land  acts  of  the  Kingdom  of  Hawai'i  from  l8k£  through  1862. 
If  you  lived  back  in  18U8,   the  Great  Mahele  meant  only  the  land 
acts  King  Kamehameha   III  signed  from  January  27  through  March  7, 
l8It8,  a  leap  year — a  period  of  Ul  days. 

Quitclaim  was   the  legal  device  of  the  Great  Mahele. 

Great  Mahele  land  transactions  signify   the  quitclaim  by  the  King 
of  his  ancient,   legal  interests  in  the  lands  traditionally  managed 
by  the  families  of  2£l  chiefs  and  chief esses.     These  ali'i 
quitclaimed  any  interests  their  families  had  in  the  King's  lands. 

These  2£l  chiefs  and  chiefesses  had  acquired  from  long  family 
occupancy  and  managership  an  association  with  certain  tracts 
of  land.     These  high-born  families  managed  these  scattered  lands 
since  at  least  from  the  time  of  Kamehameha  the  Great  in  the 
early  l800's. 

Some  chiefly  families  had  been  managing  the  same  tracts  of  lands 
for  ruling  chiefs  and  kings  for  many  generations. 

Chiefly  families  managed  lands  named  in  the  Great  Mahele  in  18U8 
for  King  Kamehameha  III,  who  owned  all  the  land  from  Ni'ihau  to 
Hawai'i  Islands.     Kamehameha  the  Great  had  acquired  it  all,   his 
son  Kamehameha  II  had  inherited  it,   and  by  18U8,  another  son, 
Kamehameha   III  owned  it  in  fee  simple,   to  use  a  Western  land  term. 


U2 


Hawai'i's  Great  Mahele  gave  perhaps  a  third  of  all  the  land  in 
the  islands --scattered  as  large  tracts  from  Kaua'i  to  the  Big 
Island — to  2^1  chiefs  and  chiefesses,  many  of  them  interrelated. 
This  third  of  the  land  is  the  basis  of  most  of  the  private  land 
owned  in  the  islands  today. 

As  of  the  close  of  business  on  March  7,   181*8,   King  Kamehameha  III 
still  owned  the  other  two  thirds  of  the  land  in  the  islands. 

On  March  8,   181*8,   the  day  after  the  Great  Mahele's  Ul-day  period 
was  over,   the  King  gave  more  than  half  of  his  remaining  land  to 
the  government  of  the  Kingdom  of  Hawai'i.     He  kept  the  rest  for 
the  crown.     Income  from  the  government  land  was  to  be  used  to 
support  the  government,  and  income  from  the  crown  land  was  to 
support  the  throne. 

Land  transactions  of  March  8,  181*8,  were  not  part  of  the  Great 
Mahele.     They  were  not  entered  in  the  Mahele  Book.     Another  book 
was  used. 

Great  Mahele  signatures,  all  £02  of  them,  mark  the  beginning  of 
legal  steps  which  resulted  in  private  ownership  of  land  in  Hawai'i. 

Contrary  to  popular  belief,   the  Great  Mahele  itself  gave  no  title 
of  land  to  any  chief  or  chief  ess.     Title  stayed  with  the  King 
until  each  ali'i  followed  through  on  other  legal  steps. 

Each  chief  and  chiefess  who  signed  the  Mahele  Book  had  to  take 
his  claim  before  the  Land  Commission  and  receive  an  award  of 
the  land  the  King  had  quitclaimed  to  him. 

Awards  were  usually  not  free.     Kamehameha  III  and  his  privy 
council  did  wave  commutation  for  a  few  of  the  chiefly  families 
with  members  who  had  served  in  top  leadership  positions  with 
Kamehameha  the  Great  during  his  wars  of  island  conquest  (such  as 
for  the  Young  family),  and  who  had  been  rewarded  with  permanent 
land  gifts  by  Kamehameha  the  Great  himself. 

But  the  rest  of  the  chiefs  and  chiefesses  had  to  pay  commutation 
in  cash  or  surrender  to  the  government  land  worth  the  cash  value. 
Some  chiefs,   in  cases  of  boundary  disputes,  also  had  to  pay  for 
boundary  surveys  before  the  land  award  was  made. 

Decades  passed  before  all  claims  were  settled. 

U3 


Each  land  named  in  the  Great  Mahele  held  boundaries  established 
in  ancient  times  and  known  by  all  residents.     Surveying  and 
boundary  disputes  came  later. 

In  18U8,  however,   calling  a  piece  of  land  by  its  ancient  place- 
name  was  all  that  was  necessary  for  the  Hawaiian  subjects  of 
His  Hawaiian  Majesty  to  know  exactly  what  land  was  meant. 


(First  published  in  the  Honolulu  Star-Bulletin.   June  16,   1978; 
"Tales  of  Old  Hawaii"  series  by  Russ  and  Peg  Apple.) 


kh 


APPEND H  C 
Land  Commission  Awards 


Scattered  over  Hawai'i's   tax  maps  are  more  than  12,000  odd- 
shaped  boxes,   each  bearing  the  initials  L.C.A.  and  a  number. 

L.C.A.  stands  for  Land  Commission  Award.     The  number  is  usually 
the  same  as  the  earlier  number  assigned  to  the  claim.     To  avoid 
confusion,   confirmed  awards  carried  their  claim  numbers. 
Claims  led  to  awards. 

Each  box — they  come  in  various  sizes  and  shapes — represents  a 
piece  of  land  awarded  to  a  tenant — a  native  Hawaiian,  or  to  a 
naturalized  foreigner,  a  non-Hawaiian  born  in  the  islands,  or 
to  a  long-term  resident  foreigner  called  a  denizen. 

Native  Hawaiians  were  the  vast  majority  of  awardees. 

Land  Commission  is  the  short  and  familiar  term  of  the  Board  of 
Commissioners  to  Quiet  Land  Titles,  established  by  the  act  of 
the  legislature  of  the  Kingdom  of  Hawai'i  of  December  10,  18U5* 

King  Kamehameha   III  appointed  Attorney  General  John  Ricord  to 
be  chairman,  and  appointed  William  Richard,   Zorobabela  Ka'auwai, 
James  Young  Kanehoa  and  John  Papa   I'i  as  members  of  the 
five-man  board.     Over  the  years  as  members  died  or  resigned, 
the  King  appointed  William  L.  Lee,  N.  Namauu,  J.  Kekaulahau, 
S.  M.  Kamakau,   G.  M.   Robertson  and  Joseph  H.  Smith,  who  was  the 
long-time  secretary. 

Hawaiian  history  buffs  will  recognize  I'i  and  Kamakau  as  published 
native  historians.     I'i  is  the  only  member  who  served  during  the 
entire  life  of  the  land  commission. 

Hawai'i's  land  commission  was  formed  in  I81j6  and  was  dissolved 
in  1855. 

Of  the  almost  12,000  claims,  each  was  heard  in  a  formal  hearing, 
investigated,   deliberated  on  separately  and  either  awarded  or  denied. 
Mistakes  made  were  few. 

Claimants  did  not  have  to  come  to  Honolulu,  for  the  board  held 
repeated  hearings  on  all  islands. 

Briefly,   the  establishment  act  permitted  the  land  commission  to 
check  into  claims  of  private  individuals  for  lands  they  were 
authorized  to  occupy  before  the  181*5  act  was  passed,  and  to  make 

U5 


an  award  if  the  majority  of  commissioners  thought  the  claim 
was  right. 

No  aliens   could  apply. 

If  the  Hawaiian  term  kuleana  comes   to  mind  as  applied  to  an 
L.C.A.,  you  are  correct.     Kuleana  originally  meant  a  right,   a 
title  to  property,  and  responsibility .     By  l8£0,    in  the  middle 
of  the  land  commission's  operations,    it  came  to  refer  to  a  land 
holding  by  a   tenant  residing  within  a  larger  tract  owned 
by  another.     Today   it  means  a  tract  of  land  within  a  larger  tract. 

Land  commission  awards  should  not  be  confused  with  the  immense 
tracts  of  lands  given  by   the  king  in  18U8  during  the  Great  Mahele 
to  '  5")    chiefs  ~     '   chiefesrr?.    retain^  by  the  king  during  the 
Great  Mahele,   or  given  to  the  government  by  the  king  after  the 
Great  Mahele.     Tenants  were  in  residence  on  all  of  these  lands. 
L.C.A.'s  were  made  to  tenants  on  lands   regardless  of  the  larger 
tracts'   ownership  before  and  after  the  Great  Mahele. 

Land  commissioners  worked  with  two  types  of  claims—those  supported 
by  a  document,  and  those  before  June  7,   1839,  which  were  based  on 
a  verbal  assignment  of  land  by  a  king  or  chief  in  decades  past. 

Many  of  the   tenant-claimants  had  been  given,  or  assigned,   land 
by  Kamehameha   the  Great,   Kamehameha   II  or  Kamehameha  III.      In  some 
cases  the  tenants  had  been  assigned  land  by  an  authorized  agent 
of  one  of  these  kings . 

Witnesses  were  usually  produced  to  testify  to  the  assignment, 
and  also  to  the  continuous  use  of  the  land  by  the   claimant,   or 
his  heirs,   ud  to  the  time  of  the  claim. 

Land  not  being  used  for  gardening,   a  business,   or  for  a  permanent 
home  was  not  awarded.     Claimants  also  had  to  nay   for  and  provide 
a  metes  and  bounds  survey. 

With  an  L.C.A.,   a   claimant  could  obtain  a  Royal  Patent  (it  carried 

a  different  number)  upon  payment  to  -the  Kingdom's   treasury  of 

a  cash  commutation,   usually  equal  to  a  third  of  the  land's  value. 

But  even  without  the  Royal  Patent,  awardees  were   not  kicked  off 
their  land.      Royal  patents,  however,  were  firmer  legally. 


(First  nublished  in  the  Honolulu  Star-Bulletin,    June  23,   1978; 
"Tales  of  Old  Hawaii"  series  by  Russ  and  Peg  Apple) 

U6 


APPEND H  D 
Homestead:     Historical  References 


(1)     9  March  1793 


(2)   1795 


"The  Englishmen  /Young  and  Davis/,   too,  who  had  accompanied 
us  thither  /Kawaihae  Bay_7  on  ourpose  to  make  presents  of 
hogs  and  vegetables  to  both  commanders,  from  their 
plantations,  which.lay  near  this  part  of  the  island,    .    .    ." 

Menzies  1920,  p.  101 


"I  had  seen  Olohana  living  there  at  the  time  of   the 
battle  of  Nuuanu." 

Naniu  18^8 
(sworn  testimony  at 
Kawaihae  on  application 
for  Land  Commission  Award 
li£22,  see  Fig.  3.     Battle 
of  Nu'uanu  fought  on  O'ahu 
Island  in  1195). 


(3)     August-December  1798 


CM 


/coral  blocks  brought  by  canoe  from  reef  at  Puako. 
Coral  blocks  were  burnt.     Mortar  and  plaster  were  made 
from  sand,  burnt  coral  and  mixed  with  poi  and  hair^7 

abstracted  from  Young 
Diary  1798-1799 


"Have  begun  four  buildings .     My  house  the  cook  house  and 
storage  room  the  house  for  the  children_and  tahus 
/guardians/  and  near  the  small  temple  /Mailekini: 
probably  at  Pelekane/  a  house  for  storage.     My  house 
at  the  small  rise  below  the  great  temple  /Pu'ukohola/ 
more  suitable   then  the  ravine  which  washes  away  withe 
Whymea  floods  /reference  to  Makeahua  gulclV?/  The  great 
one  ^Camehameha/  comes  to  use  my  cook  house  several  times. 
I  make  biskits  and  cook  a  lamb  Have  all  enjoyed  feast" 

Young  Diary  1798-1799 


U7 


(5)  March  1799 

"I  finish  plastering  all  houses  and  have  whitewashed 
the  fences  around  the  animal  pens.      It  is  as   in  Wales." 

Young  Diary  1798-17^9 

(6)  September  1799 

/Young  repaired  leaking  roof  with  small  sticks  and  pili7 
?Note :     Pili  is  a  term  for  thatching  grass^ 

abstracted  from  Young 
Diary  1798-179° 

(7)  25  June  1807 

"On  the  2 ^th  we  got  off  Toeigh  in  sight  of  Mr.  Young's 
habitation  ...  we  soon  went  to  Mr.  Young's  habitation, 
where  he  entertained  us  very  hospitably  during  most  of 
the  night   .    .    .  Mr.  Young  occupies  several  stone  buildings, 
which  are  the  best  (save  those  of  the  King,  built  on  the 
same  plan  but  now  shut)   I  have  seen  in  this   island." 

Iselin,   n.d. ,  p.   72 

(8)  16  August  180Q 

"Employd  Building  a  Cooke  house" 

Young  Log  Book 

(o)  1816  or  1817 

"From  out  at  sea,  we  could  see  the  European  built  houses 

of  John  Young  towering  above   the  grass  shacks  of  the  natives." 

Chamisso  1939,  p.   55 

(10)     April  1817  (?) 

"the  carontr  Employd  Making  a  Malow"  probably  a  malu, 

a   shade  or  shelter:     oerhaos  a  lanai  was  built  on, 

around,   or  attached  to,   one  of   the  houses  of  the  homestead/ 

Young  Log  Book 


(11)     22  November  1817 


"We  now  saw  Young's  settlement  of  several  houses  built 
of  white  stone,  after  the  European  fashion,  surrounded 
by  palm  and  banana  trees;   the  land  has  a  barren 
anpearance,    ..." 

Kotzebue  1821,  pp.  29S-296 


(12)     1819 


(13) 


(1U)     1819 


"The  house  of  Mr.  Young  is  unquestionably  the  most 
considerable  or  rather  the  only  passable  one  at  Toyai, 
It  is  situated  on  an  eminence,  whence  the  prospect 
extends  to  a  great  distance  over  the  sea,  and  towards 
the  interior  of  the   island." 


".    .    .on  the  hill  opposite  to  that  on  which  the  house 
of  Mr.  Young  is  built  /is  Pu'ukohola7 

Arago  1823:  v. II,  pp.  100-101 


Abung7  "possesses  several  stone  houses  and  considerable 
land,   on  Hawaii  as  well  as  on  the  other  islands." 


Freycinet,  1829,  p.  28 


(l£)     12  August  1819 


"The  house  of  this  interesting  old  man,  was  located  at 
the  top  of  a  small  hill  which  overlooks  the  village  of 
Kawaihae,  built  of  stone,  well  ventilated  and  sanitary." 

Freycinet,   1829,  p. 28 


(16)     1822 


"Turning  a  point  of  land  also,   they  saw  Young's  settlement 

of  several  houses,  built  of  white  stone,  after  the 

European  fashion."  /copied  from  Kotzebue,  1821,  pp.  29!?-296?7 

"Voyage"  182 k,  p.  68 
U9 


(17)     1828 


"Here  we  were  entertained  by   old  John  Young,    .    .    . 
He    lived   in  a   dirty  adobe  house,   adorned  with  old   rusty 
muskets,    swords,   bayonets,  and  cartridge  boxes.    .    .    . 
We  were  sent  up  a    rickety   flight  of  stairs   to  sleep.    .    . 
T  was  afraid  of    the  wind,    .    .    .   got  up  at  midnight,   went 
down  to   the  grass  house  of  Mrs.  Young,  which  was  neat 
and   comfortable. 


L.  Judd  1028,   d.   36 


(lfl)      6  January   I8I48 


Pre  ffa-oa-na-eha  's  word?:     This   is  our  old  lot 
at  Kawaihae  and  our  old  houses  were  mine  and  my   Kane 's , 
John  Young,   deceased." 

Ioba  Puna  18U8 

(sworn  testimony  at  Kawaihae, 

on  application  for  Land 

Commission  Award  U522, 

see  Fig.   3) 


(1Q)      11  September  I8I48 


Placename    is  Pahukanilua.      The  place   is   for  Ka'oana'eha 
and  Olohana.     Olohana   got   it  from  Kamehameha    I. 
"Is   koaraoaa  here"      "Five  houses  and  plants  are   there 
which  belong  to  Ka-oa-na-eha   and  Puna   at  this    time." 
(Describes  adjacent  places). 


Keleikaheaawa   I8I48 
(Sworn  testimony  at  Kawaihae, 
on  anolication  for  Land 
Commission  Award  h^22 ,   see 
Fig.    3.      Koapapaa    implies 
warrior's   land,   awarded  for 
battlefield  service) 


(20)      11  September  l8h8 


Confirms   testimony  given  by  Keliekaheaawa .     Places  Olohana 
(John  Yoing)   in  residence  on  lower  portion  of  homestead 
by    179$. 


Naniu   I8I48 

(sworn  testimony  as  above) 


50 


(21)  1$  November  1873 


"Makahuna  Gulch  is   the  boundary  at  seashore  between 
Kawaihae  1st  and  Kawaihae  2nd  it  lays  between  John  Young's 
old  house  and  John  Parker's  house  and  is  on  the  Kona  side 
/see  Fig.   1B_7  of  the  latter" 

Kaluakukela  1873 
(sworn  testimony  at  Court 
House  at  Waimea,  Kohala 
District.      Island  of  Hawai'i) 


(22)  20  January  I876 


"Place  called  Pohakuloa  is  on  Kawaihae  Hikina  near  boundary. 
Palama  is  the  ili  aina  next  to  Pohakuloa,  and  is  on 
Kawaihae  Akau  /northern  Kawaihae,  also  called  Kawaihae 
Komohana  and  Kawaihae  l7.     They  lay  side  by  side  to  the 
seashore.     The  place  where  we  now  are  /Hanakahi,  see  Fig.   37 
is  on  Pulama,  and  Pohakuloa  is  east  of  us,  where  Olohana's 
(John  Young)  house  used  to  stand." 

Kemoehau  1876 

(sworn  testimony  at  John  P. 

Parker's  house,  Hanakahi, 

Kawaihae) 


(23)     2U  January  I876 


(21*) 


"...  Kini  Keoke  and  Kauwe  /ICaue/.     They  told  me   .    .    . 
that  the  gulch  between  my  house  at  the  shore,  and  John 
Young's  old  hcsase  was  the  boundary.     The  gulch  is  on  the 
Kona  s  ide  of  my  house . " 

John  P.  Parker  I876 
(sworn  testimony  at 
Pu'u'Spelu,  Waimea,  Kohala) 


"This  is   the  gulch  Mr.  Parker  spoke  of   ....   I  have 
heard  since  from  Hueu  /George  Davis,  son  of  Isacc  Davis7. 
that  the  boundary  at  shore  between  these  two  lands 
^Cawaihae  1  and  2_7  was  at  Kapalala  a  point  of  rocks. 
It  is  now  covered  with  sand.     It  is  between  Mr.  Parker's 

51 


house,  and  where  John  Young's  house  used  to  stand,  and 
thence  the  boundary  runs  mauka  up  gulch   ..." 

Wahinenui  1876 
(sworn  testimony  at 
Pu'u'opelu,  Waimea,   Kohala) 


$2 


APPENDIX  E 
Place names  of  Homestead  Gulches 


Hawaiians  named  taro  patches,   rocks 
and  trees  that  represented  deities 
and  ancestors,  sites  of  houses  and 
heiau  (places  of  worship),   canoe 
landings,  fishing  stations   in  the 
sea,   resting  places   in  the  forests, 
and  the  tiniest  spots  where  miraculous 
or  interesting  events  are  believed  to 
have  taken  place. 

Pukui,   Elbert,  Mookini  1<?7U,  P«  * 

They  also  named  gulches.     Unlike  most  Hawaiian  placenames,  names 
of  the  gulches  on  either  side  of  the  John  Young  Homestead,  upper 
and  lower  portions ,  have  experienced  in  historic  times  a 
switching  of  placenames,   a  new  name,   and  like  most  Hawaiian 
placenames,   spelling  variations.     Some  of  these  variations  can 
be  explained  by  careless  penmanship,  perhaps,   or  by  recorders' 
ears  not  familiar  with  the  local  placenames. 


Northern  Gulch 
(Kohala  side,  #2 
on  Fig.  2). 

Southern  Gulch 
(Kona  side,  #3 
on  Fig.  2). 

Makahuna 

Date: 
181*8: 

Source 

Pokiahua 

Keleikaheaawa  18U8 
(Kama'aina) 

Makahuna 

18U8: 

Naniu  181*8. 
(Kama'aina) 

Pakiahua 

18U8: 

Puna  18U8. 
(Kama'aina) 

Ma kahuna 

1873: 

Kalualukela  1873. 
(Kama'aina) 

Makahuna   ( or) ? 

Makahuna 

1873: 

Kiainiu  1873. 
(Kama'aina) 

Ma  kahuna   (or)? 

Makahuna 

1876: 

Kaneahiki  1876. 
(wife  of  Konohiki) 

Pokiiahua 

1876: 

Kamoehau  I876. 
(Kama'aina) 

Pokiahua 

I876: 

Wahinenui  1876. 
(Kama'aina) 

S3 


Northern  Gulch 
(Kohala  side,  #2 
on  Fig.   2). 

Southern  Gulch 
(Kona  side,  #3 
on  Fig.  2). 

Date: 

Source 

Pohiiahua 

Makahuna 

1883: 

Jackson  chart  1883- 

Pohiiahua 

Makahuna 

1885: 

McDonald  chart  1891 

Ma kahuna 

Pokiiohua 

1903: 

■ 
Loebenstein  mao 
1903;   Testimony 

Makahuna 

1903 : 

Nawahi_1903- 
(Kama'aina) 

Makahuna 

1903: 

Akahi  1903. 
(Kama'aina) 

Makahuna 

1903: 

Kanakanui  1903. 
(Kama'aina) 

Makahuna 

Makahuna 
Makahuna 

Makahuna 
Pokiahua 
Pokiahua 


Makeahua 
Makeahua 

Makeahua 
Makahuna 
Makahuna 


1903:     Lyman  1903. 

(legal  decision) 

19£6:     USGS  Kawaihae  quadJ 

1957:     CSF  #13277-13279, 
State  Survey 
Divis  ion 

1956 +:     tax  and  other 

maps  and  surveys 


1968:     Akau  1968. 
(Kama'Sina) 

1978:     Akau  1978. 
(Kama'aina) 


It  is   interesting  to  note  that  Kawaihae  kama'aina  Solomon  Akau, 
in  on-site   interviews   in  1°68  and  1978.   gave  the  same  names  to 
the  gulches  as  did  the  residents   in  18)48.      This  was  in  spite  of 
the   "official"  names,   to  which  he  objected. 

The  people  of  old  who  lived  and  worked  at  Kawaihae  knew  the  local 
placenames  intimately,  applied  them  accurately,  and  made  frequent 
daily  use  of  them.      It  is  believed  that  the  correct  and  ancient 

5k 


name  of  the  northern  gulch  was  Poki'ahua,   or  more  likely 
Poki'i'ahua;  and  of  the  southern  gulch  Makahuna.     This  is  based 
on  the  testimony  of  the  residents  of  18U8,  who  in  applying  for 
land  commission  awards,  described  the  boundaries  of  their  house- 
lots  by  references  to  the  gulches.     In  this  monograph,  the 
modern  names  of  the  gulches  have  been  used,  since  these  names 
are  found  on  most  maps   in  use  today. 

In  identifying  themselves   in  sworn  testimony  before  land  and 
boundary  commissioners  in  IBI48,  1873,   187U,  1876,  and  1903, 
witnesses  frequently  described  themselves  as   "kama'aina" 
to  Kawaihae.     This  means   that  they  were  born  and  raised  either 
at  Kawaihae  or  on  an  adjacent  ahupua'a.     Today  the  term  kama'aina 
had  broadened  in  meaning  to  include  anyone  born  in  the 
Hawaiian  Islands.     A  kama'aina  witness  in  historic  times  had  the 
status  of  an  expert  when  he  testified  as  to  matters,  placenames, 
and  boundaries  of  his  home  locality.     It  is  not  known  why  the 
testimony  of  kama'aina  witnesses  changed,   over  time,   as   to 
gulch  names. 


tt 


APPENDIX  F 
Kawaihae  Miscellanea 

"Noho  like  ma  na  Kawaihae  alua'1 

(The   two  Kawaihaes  lived  in  unity,  had  equal  rights) 

Kaneahiku  1876,  pg.   3°0 

"Olohana  and  Kalaimoku  were  noho  like,    ..." 

(Kalanimoku  /"owner"  of  Kawaihae  l7  and  Olohana  /"owner" 
of  Kawaihae  TJ  shared  equally,  had  equal  rights) 

Kamoehau  I876,  pg.   391 


Ancient  Fishing  Rights 

List  of  Lands   in  Kohala,   Hawaii,  with  the  Konohiki  Fisheries 

Kawaihae --crown 
Kawaihae --Keoni  Ana 

Interior  Department  Letter 
Book  15,  pp.   115-116,   n.d. 


cook  15,   pp, 
/ca.  18U8/ 


/Kawaihae  l7  "extended  out  to  sea' 


/Kawaihae  27  "extended  out  to  sea" 


Kalualukela  1873,  pg.  73 


Kalualukela  1873,  og.  lU7 


Sea  from  Pokiiahua  to  Kauhuhu,  belonged  to  Kawaihae  1 
Sea  on  Kona  side  of  Pokiiahua,  belonged  to  Kawaihae  2 


Kamoehau  1876,  pg.  391 


56 


"When  we  came  from  the  other  side  Kawaihae  on  to  this  place  to 
fish,  we  had  to  give  part  of  our  fish  to  Olohana." 

Kaneahiku  1876,  pg.  390 


"We  used  to  divide  the  fish  and  give  part  to  Olohana.     Olohana 
and  Kalaimoku  were  noho  like,   so  they  used  to  give  him  part 
of  the  fish." 

Kamoehau  I876,  pg.  391 

".    .    .  fishing  rights  belonged  to  the  King's  Kawaihae." 

Parker  1876,  pg.  392 


When  we  used  to  catch  f  ish- -Olohana 's  man  used  to  take  part 

and  the  Konohiki  of  Kawaihae  1  a  part  .    .    .  always  heard  fishing 

rights  belonged  to  Kawaihae  1. 

Wahinenui  1876,  pgs.  612-613 


Note  1     fishing  or  riparian  rights  were  not  included  for  Kawaihae  2 
in  the  boundary  decision  of  1903. 

Lyman  1903,  pgs.  612-613 


Sources  of  Boundary  Knowledge 

When  my  father  and  uncle   "were  growing  old  /they_7  showed  me  the 
boundaries  as  was  the  custom  in  olden  times." 

Kalualukela  1873,  pg.  73 


I  heard  of  the  mauka  boundaries  from  old  people,  but  never  shown 
them.     I  knew  the  makai  boundaries. 

Kiainiu  1873,  pg.  75 


57 


Jfy  parents  pointed  out  the  boundaries.      "Ify  parents  told  me  the 
makai  boundaries  but  showed  me  the  mauka  ones   ...    I  cannot  say 
for  certain  that  I  can  give  makai  boundaries  correctly  as   I  have 
never  been  there  with  my  parents    ...   I  was  not  full  grown  when 
I  went  with  my  parents." 

Kalualukela  1873,  Pgs.   lU7-ll*9 


Mahi,   the  konohiki,   told  people  the  boundaries 

Kaneahiku  I876,  pg.  390 

"}fy  parents  told  me  the  boundaries." 

Kamoehau  I876,  pg.   391 

Jfy  parents  never  told  me  the  boundaries. 

Kahihinu  I876,  pg.   392 


Told  boundaries  by  Hueu  /dead/,  Kini  Keoke  /dead/  and  Kauwe 
/itill  alive  but  not  called  as  witness/. 

Parker  1876,  pg.  392 


"The  boundaries    .    .    .  have  been  pointed  out  to  me  /by  named 
kama'aina  in  18U3  in  connection  with  an  1BU3  boundary  dispute/. 

Wahinenui  I876,  pg.  392 

Parents  told  "us"  the  boundaries    .    .    . 

Akahi  1903,  pg.  606 


58 


Boundary   Disputes 

The  disputes  concerned  the  boundary  between  Kawaihae  1  and 
Kawaihae  2;  apparently  began  about  181j3;  and  were  finally  settled 
by  a  decision  from  Frederick  L.  Lyman,   commissioner  of  boundaries 
for  the  third  and  fourth  circuit,   Territory  of  Hawaii,   in  1903. 
Formal  hearings  were  held  on  the  matter  in  1873,  l87h,  1876,  and 
1903,   some  at  Kawaihae  and  some  at  other  places  in  the  district 
of  Kohala. 

The  following  synthe&it   of  the  boundary  dispute  matter  is  made 
from  sworn  testimonies  at  the  hearings.     The  most  important 
source  was  that  of  Wahinenui  in  1876,  with  collaboration  by 
Kamoehau  and  Kaneahiku  (old  and  confused  as  she  was),  also  in  1876. 
The  synthesis  explains  references  made  by  witnesses  Kiainiu  and 
Kalualukela  in  1873  to  a  boundary  at  Kauhuhu  gulch. 

The  disputed  territory  lay  in  1873,   187)4,  and  1876  between  Makahuna 
gulch  (see  Fig.  2)   and  Kauhuhu  gulch,  a  gulch  which  is  located 
in  present  Kawaihae  village  on  the  north  side  of  where  the 
elementary  school  building,  now  abandoned  for  school  purposes,   stands 
Kawaihae' s  numerous  salt  pans  were  just  to  the  south  of  Kauhuhu 
gulch,   and  thus  were  included  with  the  land  in  dispute.     By  the  1903 
hearings,  Makahuna  gulch  at  the  beach  had  been  accepted  by  all 
witnesses  as  the  boundary  at  the  coast,  although  part  of  the  dispute 
then  was  which  branch  of  Makahuna  gulch  the  boundary  followed  inland. 
A  north  branch  boundary  favored  The  Queen's  Hospital,  owners  of 
Kawaihae  2;  a  south  branch  boundary  favored  the  Territory  of 
Hawaii,  which  had  acquired  the  former  crown  land  of  Kawaihae  1. 
The  decision,  made  by  a  Territorial  boundary  commissioner,  favored 
the  government.   The  major  oart  of  the  1903  boundary  dispute  was 
over  boundaries  well  inland,  and  is  not  germane  to  beach  matters. 

At  the  beach,   the  pre -1790  (pre-Young)  boundary  was  Makahuna  gulch. 
Thus  when  Young  was  assigned  Kawaihae  2  by  Kamehameha,   the 
boundary  between  Kawaihae  2  and  Kawaihae  1  (assigned  to  Kalaimoku) 
was  Makahuna  gulch.     The  functional  Hawaiian  name  for  Makahuna 
gulch  was  Kar>ili  kahawai ,  which  translated  means  the  stream  to 
which  /two/  boundaries   cling. 

Sometime  during  Young's  tenure  at  Kawaihae,  probably  in  the  period 

before  Kamehameha 's  death  in  1819,   one  of  Young's  staff  chiefs  was 

killed  on  Kawaihae  1.     The  murdered  man  was  named  Kapela. 

The  killing  was  done  at  Ailihoa,  a  place  on  the  beach  described 

as  being  seaward  of  the  18£9  Keola  Hou  Congregational  Church  building. 


59 


The  murder  is  attributed  to  either  Kawa ilepolepo  himself,  or  to 
his  children.     Kawailepolepo  appears  to  have  been  a  staff  chief 
of  Kalaimoku.     The  cause  of  the  affair  which  resulted  in  Kapela's 
death  is  not  given. 

To  compensate  Young  for  the  murder  of  Kapela,  Kalaimoku  gave 
Young  the  land  between  Makahuna  and  Kauhuhu  gulches.     This  then 
placed  the  functional  boundary  of  Kawaihae  2  at  Kauhuhu  gulch. 
At  the  very  least,   it  added  the    'ili  of  Pulama  (see  Fig.  3), 
and  perhaos  some  adjacent   'ili  of  Kawaihae  1  to  land  controlled 
by  Young.     How  long  actual    control  of  this  land,    its  tenants 
and  resources  (including  fishing  offshore)  by  Young  and  his 
heirs  lasted  is  not  known. 

Young  died  in  1835.     %  l8Ii3,  a  local  dispute  at  Kawaihae  over 
the  beach  land  between  Makahuna  and  Kauhuhu  gulches  and  jurisdic- 
tion over  it  brought  the  Kane  la  affair,  and  the  resulting  land 
assignment,   to  the  attention  of  those  who  testified  later  on 
boundary  matters.     Ka-oa-na-eha  and  Puna,  of  Kawaihae  2,  assigned 
land  in  this  section  to  tenants  as  late  as  181*7;  L.C.A.  10232 
(never  awarded)   in  181*1,  and  L.C.A.  3668 :i  and  2  in  18U7 
(see   "Occupancy  Authorizations"  below). 


Salt  Pans  and   'ili   'Sina  of  Kawaihae  2 

"The  folks  living  mauka  on  Kawaihae  2nd  «sed  to  go  after  salt 
at  the  shore  to  the  salt  works  near  Kauhuhu." 

Kamoehau  1876,  pg.   391 


"...   the  places  for  making  salt  belonged  to  both  lands. 
The  pohopaakai  have  the  same  names  as  the  ili  aina  to  which 
they  belong,   on  both  Kawaihae."     ^oho  pa'akai  =  depression 
where  salt  was  evaporated  from  sea  water,   i.e.  salt  pan7 

Wahinenui  I876,  pg.   393 


Kamoehau  (1876,  pgs .  391-392)  listed  some  of  the  'ili  'aina  of 
Kawaihae  2,  and  indicated  which  had  salt  pans  of  the  same  name 
near  Kauhuhu  in  Kawaihae  1.  The  asterisk  indicates  those  with 
salt  pans.  This  assignment  of  salt  pans  to  'ili  of  Kawaihae  2 
probably  dates  from  the  murder  of  Kapela,   discussed  above. 


60 


Pohakuloa* 

Kaholei* 

Piipepii* 

Nupaa* 

Kaneloa* 

Malahuehue* 

Makela 

Kuhui 

Kapahukapu 


Occupancy  Authorizations  of  Land  Commission  Awards,  Kawaihae  Bay 
(see  Appendix  C  and  Fig.  5). 

In  the  knowledge  that  Land  Commission  Awards  of  houselots, 
garden  plots,  and  other  small  utilized  pieces  of  land  indicate 
that  occupancy  was  authorized  before  ca.   181£>   the  authorizations 
were  checked  for  the  Kawaihae  Bay  L.C.A.'s.     The  linear  stretch 
of  beach  from  the  northern  end,   from  where  the  later  Kawaihae 
wharf  stood,   to  the  southern  end  at  Pelekane,  was  divided  into 
three  sections.     They  were 

Wharf  site  to  Kauhuhu  Gulch 
Kauhuhu  Gulch  to  Makahuna  Gulch 
Ma kahuna  Gulch  to  Pelekane. 

Geopolitically,  the  stretch  from  the  wharf  site  to  Kauhuhu  Gulch 
has  always  been  a  part  of  Kawaihae  1;  the  stretch  between  the 
gulches,  as  indicated  under  "Boundary  Disputes"  above,  had 
management  for  a  period  of  decades  under  Kawaihae  2  while  tradi- 
tionally being  a  part  of  Kawaihae  1  (and  to  which  ahupua'a  it 
was  again  affixed  legally  in  1903);  and  the  stretch  from  Makahuna 
Gulch  to  Pelekane  has  always  been  a  part  of  Kawaihae  2. 

L.C.A.'s  on  both  terminal  beach  sections   indicated  authorizations 
to  tenants  from  authorities  of  their  respective  ahupua'a;  while 
the  middle  stretch  indicated  authorities  from  both  ahupua'a. 
This  situation  confirms  changing  jurisdictions  over  the  stretch 
between  Kauhuhu  and  Makahuna  gulches.     Changing  jurisdictions 
explains  why  two  awards  (3668  and  UlOl,  Figs.  3  and  3>),   clearly 
in  Kawaihae  1  on  modern  maps,  had  original  authorizations  of 
occupancy  from  Kawaihae  2  authorities.     Some  weakening  of 
Kawaihae  2  jurisdiction  over  the  inter-gulch  shoreline  can  be 
inferred  from  the  18U3  boundary  dispute;  and  seen  in  the  Land 
Commission's  denial  of  L.C.A.  applications  10232  and  10903/10901* 
(see  below)   in  181*8 .     Both  of  these  claims  involved  salt  pans  in 

61 


the  area  seaward  of  the  modern  Kawaihae  elementary  school  lot. 
Both  also  involved  claimants  (Puna  and  Manuia)  with  strong 
Kawaihae  2  connections.     Manuia,  however,  was  awarded  another 
salt  pan  lot — L.C.A.  3668:2. 

The  awards  listed  below  should  not  be  considered  to  represent 
the  total  population  of  Kawaihae  Bay  in  I8I48.     They  probably 
represent  the  local  elite,   those  who  could  afford  the  survey 
and  commutation,  had  proper  authority  for  permanent  occupancy, 
had  reputable  witnesses  to  sustain  both  the  authority  and  con- 
tinuous use,  and  who  chose  to  a  poly.     The  Rev.  Lorenzo  Lyons, 
Congregational  minister  who  headquartered  at  Waimea,  had  an 
active  church  and  school  at  Kawaihae  in  181*8,  and  built  a  new, 
larger  church  at  Kawaihae  in  18^9.     Such  church  and  school 
activities  would  not  have  been  warranted  by  just  the  population 
of  the  L.C.A.   lots.     Lyons  listed  his  Kawaihae  congregation  in 
183U  as  varying  between  100  to  £00.     No  population  figures 
for  ca.  18^8  have  been  located. 

The  ahupua'a  of  Kawaihae  1,  under  the  title  of  Kawaihae  Komohana, 
was  retained  by  Kamehameha  Til  as  crown  land.     Kuakini,  as 
governor  of  the  Island  of  Hawai'i,  apparently  had  authority  to 
authorize  permanent  occupancy  of  small  lots  on  Kawaihae  1, 
i.e.  L.C.A.   U881j  on  undisputed  crown  land  and  also  on  the  inter- 
gulch  region,   i.e.  L.C.A.  9971.     From  their  testimonies,   it  is 
inferred  that  Naniu  was  a   "retired"  konohiki,  and  Kekuwahine 
his  successor  on  the  crown  land  of  Kawaihae  1.     Through  delegated 
authority,  a  konohiki  assigned  lots. 

The  ahupua'a  of  Kawaihae  2,  under  the  title  of  Kawaihae  Hikina, 
was  assigned  by  Kamehameha   III  in  the  Great  Mahele  to  his  premier, 
Keoni  Ana  (John  Young  II),   son  of  John  Young.     Keoni  Ana,  as  an 
heir  of  the  man  who  had  helped  Kamehameha  the  Great  found  his 
kingdom,  did  not  have  to  pay  commutation  for  his  Great  Mahele  lands, 
Young  received  L.C.A.   85>l£:l  for  the  ahupua'a  of  Kawaihae  2,  and 
Royal  Patent  1666:1.     Ka'oana'eha,    Keoni  Ana's  mother  and  a  high 
chief ess,  appears  to  have  been  an  on-site  assignor  of  lots  for 
permanent  occupancy  on  Kawaihae  2  and  in  the  inter-gulch  area. 
Keliibeaawa  appears  to  be  a   "retired"  Kawaihae  2  konohiki,  and 
Puna   to  be  his   successor. 

It  is  noted  that  Naniu,  Kekuwahine  and  Keleikaheaawa  were  not 
among  the  applicants  or  awardees.      If  not  konohiki,   they  certainly 
were  respected  elders  and  men  of  authority.     They  apparently  felt 
secure  in  possession,  of  their  homes,  perhaps  as  resident  agents  or 


62 


highly  favored  retainers  of  the  crown  and  the  kingdom's  premier. 
Why  Ka  'oana'eha    and  Puna  felt  it  necessary  to  apply  for 
L.C.A.  Uf?22  is  not  known.     Puna  was  the  active  agent.     Why  no 
patent  was  sought  is  another  mystery. 


Wharf  to  Kauhuhu 

L.C.A.  LiQQli,  Royal  Patent  £233  to  Kepaimaka 

Authority  was  Kekuwahine;  occupied  before  time  of 
Kamehameha   I;  witnesses  were  Naniu     and    Kekuwahine. 

Houselot  with  one  house,   not  enclosed  by  wall. 

Occupied  "From  Kalaiopuu  ^Calaniopu'u?7  and  before  that, 
and  from  Kamehameha  I  to  this  day."  Kepaimaka,  Native 
Register,  Vol.   8,  pg.  $. 


L.C.A.  1+881+,   Royal  Patent  1+929  to  Wm.  French  /merchant/ 

Authority  was  Kuakini;  occupied  in  1838;  witnesses 
were  Samuel  Rice  and  G.  Munn. 

Structures  for  storage  and  dwellings,  enclosed  by 
stone  wall. 

Kuakini  told  Samuel  Rice:     French  asked  for  land; 
Kuakini  agreed,   if  French  built  pier  for  canoes; 
French  did.     Native  Testimony,  Vol.  2,  pg.   U93 . 


L.C.A.  3669,   Royal  Patent  521+0  to  Makahi 

Authority  was  Kekuwahine;  occupied  in  181+1;  witness 
was  Kekuwahine. 

Houselot  with  two  houses,  enclosed  by  stone  wall. 

"I  gave  it  to  him  in  181+1."     Kekuwahine,  Native 
Testimony,  Vol.   1+,  pg.  1. 


63 


Kauhuhu  to  Makahuna 
L.C.A.  1^091:1,2,  Royal  Patent  5217  to  Kaue 

Authority  was  Kamehameha   I;  occupied  from  time  of 
Kamehameha  I;  witnesses  were  Naniu  and  Paimaka. 

Area  was   called  Kahapa'akai  /salt  place/. 

h091:l — Houselot  with  three  houses,    including  one 
for  government;  probably  enclosed  with 
stone  fence. 

1*091:2-- Three  salt  beds,   no  fence. 

"I  got  this  houselot  from  Kamehameha   I."     Kaue,   Native 
Register,  Vol.   8,  pg.   3. 


L.C.A.   3826,  Royal  Patent  £26U,   to  Punihahiha 

Authority  was  Kamehameha  I;   occupied  before  time  of 
Kamehameha   Ij  witnesses  were  Naniu  and  Paimaka. 

Area  was   called  Kahapa'akai.     Portion  enclosed  with 
stone  wall  contained  two  houses;  wall  was  new.     Salt 
beds  were  adjacent  but  apparently  outside  new  wall. 

Paimaka  and  Kawai  were  neighbors  to  north.     Punihahiha 'a 
grandfather  was  Kahapana,  who  had  lot  before  time  of 
Kamehameha   I;  Punihahiha's  father  was  Mii,  who  died  in 
time  of  Kamehameha  I.     Government  objected  to  award. 
Objection  not  sustained  by  land  commission.     Native 
Testimony,  Vol.   h,  pg.   5. 

(10232),  applicant  was  David  Manuia  (alias  Muia,  also  Monrisa). 
( 10°03/1090Li) ,  applicants  were   David  Manuia  and  Puna. 

10232:     Authority  was  Ka'oana'eha     in  18U1  and  Naniu  in  18U6; 
occupied  in  l8Ul;  witnesses  were  Puna  and  Naniu. 

10903/109014 :     Authority  not  established.      "...  was  conveyed 
to  Kalaimoku  during  time  of  Kamehameha   II  and 
living  has  been  there  to  this  day.      It  is  now  for 
the  ahupuaa  of  Kawaihae."     Naniu,   Native  Testimony, 
Vol.   h,  Dg.   7. 

Neither  claim  awarded.     Both  included  salt  pans. 


6U 


L.C.A.  9971,    Royal  Patent  6692  to  W.P.  Lele-io-hoku 

Authority  was  Kuakinij  occupied  in  lShh;  a  land 
commission  decision  in  settlement  of  estate. 

\  acre  with  two  houses,  surrounded  by  vacant  land. 

Lele-io-hoku  received  it  from  J.  A.  Kuakini  in  l8Wi. 
Kuakini  had  received  it  as  vacant  land  in  l81i0. 
Native  Register,  Vol.  ii,  pg.  £02. 


L.C.A.  3668 1 1,2,   Royal  Patent  5%lU  to  David  Manuia 

Authority  was  Ka'oana'  eha;  occupied  in  I81j0;  witnesses 
were  Puna  and  Kahananui. 

36681 :l--Houselot  with  four  houses  (2  for  Manuia,   1  for 
Nahina,   1  for  government),  enclosed  with 
stone  wall. 

3668:2 — Salt  pans  at  Kahapa'akai. 

3668:1  later  became  Hanakahi,   the  Parker  Ranch 
beach  house  and  lot. 


L.C.A.  UlOl,  Royal  Patent  638$  to  Kahananui 

Authority  was  Olohana  and  Ka'oana' eha;   occupied  in  lQhl; 
witness  was  Puna. 

"...  which  I  got  from  the  alii  Kaoanaeha  Kuamoo,  and 
Puna  on  March  31,   18U7.     It  is  a  small  lot  at  Kawaihae, 
which  is  named  Koleaka."     Kahananui,  Native  Register, 
Vol.   8,  pg.   1. 

Previous  occupant  was  Keleikaheaawa,  who  identified 
Kahananui  as  his  nephew.      "Olohana  gave  me  my  interest 
during  the  time  of  Kuamoo  /battle  in  18197. " 
Keleikaheaawa,  Native  Testimony,  Vol.   h,  pg.  3. 

"Kuamoo  /ICa'oana'  eha_7  has  given  this  place  to  Kahananui." 
Puna,  Native  Testimony,  Vol.  hf  pg.  3. 


65 


Ma  kahuna   to  Pelekane 

L.C.A.  1*106,  Royal  Patent  £098  to  Kaui 

Authority  was  Olohana  and  Ka'oana'eha;  date  of  occu- 
pancy unknown;  witnesses  were  Puna  and  Keliikaheaawa. 

"My  interest  was  from  Kaoanaeha  and  Olohana.     It  passed 
to  their  retainers  and  so  on  until  I  have  it."     Kaui, 
Native  Register,  Vol.  8,  pg.   1*. 

"Kaui  occupies  this  place  through  Kaahunaliiole  long 
before  we  lived  there  with  Kaoanaeha.     Never  any 
objection  to  Kaui  from  Kaoanaeha."     Puna,  Native  Testimony, 
Vol.  1*,  pg.  3. 

/apparently,  Kahunaliiole — see  L.C.A.  1*103,  below — was 
original  authorized  occupant,   left  lot  in  1835  to  begin 
development  of  what  became  L.C.A.  1*103;  and  Kaui  took 
over  without  objection/. 

L.C.A.  1*522,  no  royal  patent,   to  Puna  and  Kaoanaeha 

Authority  was  Kamehameha  I;  date  of  occupancy  ca.  1793; 
witnesses  were  Keleikaheaawa  and  Naniu. 

See  Appendix  D,   (18),   (19),   (20);  Native  Register, 
Vol.  8,  pg.  6;  Native  Testimony,  Vol.  1*,  pgs.  6-7. 

L.C.A.  1*103,   Royal  Patent  1*929  to  Kahunaliiole  /port  pilot?7 

Authority  was  Ka'oana'eha;   occupancy  began  in  1835, 
was  formalized  in  181*2;  witnesses  were  Naniu  and 
Keleikaheaawa. 

Houselot  with  four  houses  (3  for  Kahunaliiole,   1  for 
government)   enclosed  with  stone  wall.     Place  called 
Ka-hale-uku  /paymaster's  house;  perhaps  could  be 
Ka-hale-'uku,  house  of  fleas7.     Rev.  Lyons 's  beach 
house  was  in  one  corner  of  lot,  but  excluded  from  wall. 
See.     Native  Register,  Vol.   8,  pg.  3;  Native  Testimony, 
Vol.  1*,  pg.  2.     L.C.A.  1*103  excluded  the  Lyons  house 
from  the  land  awarded. 

There  may  be  a  connection  between  Olohana 's  death  in 
1835  and  the  land  moves  by  Kahunaliiole  in  that  year. 


66 


Pelekane:     See  Kelly  1971*,  pgs.  19-26.     It  was  the  royal  residence 
of  Kamehameha   I  and  Kamehameha   II  at  Kawalhae. 


NOTE:     All  hearings  were  held  at  Kawalhae  on  September  11,   181*8; 
all  witnesses  were  sworn. 


Kawaihae  People 

Akahi,   J.  H. 

Born  at  Kawaihae  ca.   181*3.     Father  was  a  school  teacher. 
Testified  on  boundary  matters  in  1903. 

French,  William  (Called  "Haouku"  by  Hawaiians) 

Waimea  merchant.     Had  warehouses  at  Kawaihae,   shipped  and 
received  at  Kawaihae  as  port.     Received  L.C.A.  1*881*  in  181*8. 

Kahananui 

Received  land  from  Kahunaliiole  ca.   1835;   in  181*8  received 
this  houselot  as  L.C.A.   1*106. 

Kahapana 

Father  of  Mii;  grandfather  of  Punihahiha,  who  received 
L.C.A.  3826  in  181*8. 

Kahihihu 

Born  at  Kawaihae.  Proud  to  have  seen  Kekuaokalani  and 
Kamehameha  I.  Testified  at  boundary  hearings  in  I876. 

Kahooieie 

A  Kawaihae  2  karaa'aina  with  boundary  knowledge  in  181*3. 

Kahue 

Son  of  Pipij  dead  by  1903;  knew  and  marked  boundaries  in 
the  late  l800's,  especially  in  inland  Kawaihae  when  fencing 
needed  for  cattle. 

Kahunaliiole  (Kaahunaliiole) 

May  have  been  the  pilot  for  port  of  Kawaihae.  Had  L.C.A. 
1*106  lot  before  Kahananui;  moved  to  unimproved  land  ca.  1833, 
fenced  it,  had  four  houses  (3  for  himself,  1  for  government) 
on  it  by  181*8,  when  he  received  L.C.A.  1*103. 


67 


Kalaimoku  (Kalanimoku) 

Prime  minister  to  Kamehameha  I;  assigned  land  of  Kawaihae  1 
by  Kamehameha   I;  defeated  Kekuaokalani  at  Kuamo'o  in  1819; 
became  a  Christian,  one  of  first  chiefs  admitted  to  church; 
served  Queen  Regent  Ka'ahumanu  as  prime  minister  in  early 
years  of  Kamehameha   III. 


Kale 


Brother-in-law  of  Makahi  ca.   l8Ul.     Possibly  Kale  Davis. 
Son  or  grandson  of  Isaac  Davis. 


Kaleiehu 

A  Kawaihae  2  kama'aina  with  boundary  knowledge  in  l8Li3. 
May  be  same  man  as  Kale  above. 

Kalualukela 

Born  in  inland  Kawaihae  early  l800's.     Father  was  Kuhelani, 
uncle  was  a  bird  catcher — both  were  luna  (foreman)  under 
the  konohiki  of  Kawaihae  2.     Reported  dead  by  1903.     Testified 
in  1873  boundary  hearings . 

Kamaikula  (w) 

Wife  of  Keokikepa  in  1868. 

Kamoehau 

A  Kawaihae  1  kama'aina.     Born  before  1795.     Testified  in 
I876  boundary  hearings. 

Kanaawa 

Father  of  Kamoehau;  a  Kawaihae  kama'aina. 

Kanakanu,  S.  M. 

Government  surveyor.     Depended  on  Akahi  and  Nawahie  for 
boundary  data  in  1903. 

Kanakiokau 

A  Kawaihae  1  kama'aina  with  boundary  knowledge  in  18JU3 - 

Kaneahiku  (w) 

Born  at  Pahoa,  Kahala,   early  l800's.     Helped  carry  stones 
at  building  of  Klholo  fishtxmd.     Wife  of  Mahi,    the  konohiki 
of  Kawaihae  1  ca.   1820.     Moved  away  from  Kawaihae  before  l83£. 
Testified  in  I876  boundary  hearings. 


68 


Kapa   (w) 

Sister  of  Puna. 

Kapela 

A  John  Young  associate  who  was  killed  in  Kawaihae  1. 
His  death  precipitated  boundary  expansion  of  Kawaihae  2 
as  compensation. 

Kapuni 

A  Kawaihae  1  kama'aina  with  boundary  knowledge  in  181*3. 

Kaue  (Kauwe) 

Received  L.C.A.  1*091:1,2  in  181*8;  with  four  houses  (3  for 
him,  1  for  government)  plus  three  salt  beds.  Said  to  be 
a  boundary  expert. 

Kaui 

Received  L.C.A.  1*106;  had  one  house  enclosed  by  wall. 

Kawai 

Lived  Kohala  side  (north)  of  L.C.A.  3826;  probably  a 
salt  maker. 

Kawailepolepo 

He,  or  his  children,  killed  Kapela  in  Kawaihae  1. 

Kekuwahine  (Kekuawahine)  (Kekuahine) 

Probably  the  konohiki  of  Kawaihae  1,  vice  Naniu;  if  not 
konohiki,  a  leading  overseer.  Assigned  land.  Testified 
as  witness  for  L.C.A.  awards  in  181*8. 

Keleikaheaawa 

Leading  overseer,  perhaps  under  Puna,  for  Kawaihae  2. 
Testified  as  witness  for  L.C.A.  awards  in  181*8.     A  Kawaihae  2 
kama'aina  with  boundary  knowledge  in  181*3.     May  have  been 
konohiki  of  Kawaihae  2  before  Puna. 

Keliiwaiwaiole  (w),  K.  Laika 
Daughter  of  David  Manuia. 

Keokikepa 

Owner  of  L.C.A.  1*103  in  1868. 

Kepaimaka 

Received  L.C.A.  l*09l*  in  181*8. 


69 


Kiainui 

Born  at  Kawaihae  at  time  of   "Oku"  /oku'u:     disease  at  time 
of  Kamehameha   I,  probably  cholera77  father  was  Piielua,  a 
birdcatcher;   reported  dead  by  1903.     Testified  in  boundary 
hearings  in  1873. 

Kuhelani 

Father  of  Kalualukela;  a  luna  (foreman)  under  Konohiki  of 
Kawaihae  2. 

Lele-io-hoku,  W.  P.   (William  Pitt) 

A  high  chief,  grandson  of  Kamehameha   I  by  a  lesser  wife; 
named  for  the  night  Kamehameha  died;  married  to  Nahi'ena'ena, 
sacred  daughter  of  Kamehameha,   in  1835;   later  married 
Princess   Ruth  Ke'elikolani;   joint  heir  with  Princess  Miriam 
Kekauluohi  to  estate  of  Kuakini;  died  of  measles  in  182*8; 
posthumously  awarded  L.C.A.  9971  in  settlement  of  his  estate. 

Mahi 

Konohiki  of  Kawaihae  1  under  Kalaimoku.     Husband  of  Kaneahiku. 
Buried  in  cliffs  of  Honokua  gulch.     Lived  between  Makahuna 
and  Kauhuhu  gulches . 

Makahi 

Related  to  Kale  by  marrieage.     Received  L.C.A.  3669  in  18U8. 

Manuia,   David  (Mauia)   (Monrisa) 

Received  L.C.A.  3668:1,2.     Left  award  to  Laika  Keliiwaiwaiole, 
his  daughter.     Overseer  of   'ili  of  Kaholei  in  Kawaihae  2 
for  Puna. 

Mii 

Father  of  Punihahiha  (L.C.A.  3826);  died  in  time  of  Kamehameha  I, 

Nahea 

Born  at  Kawaihae  during  reign  of  Kamehameha  I;  young  when 
Kamehameha  I  died  in  1819.  Testified  in  l87i»  boundary  hearings. 

Nahina  (w?) 

Lived  in  a  separate  house  on  L.C.A.   3668:1  (Manuia)   in  18U8. 

Nakoana  (w) 

Mother  of  Kamoehau;  a  kama'Sina  of  Kawaihae. 

Naniu 

Probably   the  konohiki  of  Kawaihae  1,    retired  perhaps  by  18U8. 
Testified  for  L.C.A.'s  along  entire  Kawaihae  beach. 


70 


Nawahi  (Nawahie),  S.  W. 

Born  Kawaihae  ca.  1838;  father  was  a  bird  catcher  and  mother 
was  a  boundary  expert. 

Nuholo 

A  Kawaihae  kama'aina  with  boundary  knowledge  in  181*3. 

Pae 

A  Kawaihae  2  kama'aina  with  boundary  knowledge  in  181*3. 
Father  of  Kapa  (w)   and  Puna. 

Paimaka 

Lived  Kohala  (north)   side  of  L.C.A.  3826;   testified  for 
L.C.A. 's  in  181*8;  probably  a  salt  maker. 

Parker,   John  Palmer,    II 

Born  1827  in  Kohala.     Brother  of  Ebenizer  and  Mary  Ann  Parker; 
uncle  of  Samuel.     Leased  L.C.A.  3668:1,2  ca.   1876.     Testified 
on  boundary  matter  in  18?6.     Died  1891. 

Parker,  Samuel 

Nephew  of  John  Palmer  Parker  II;  in  direct  line  of  ownership 
of  Parker  Ranch;  took  lease  of  L.C.A.  3668:1,2  for  ten  years 
in  1896. 

Piielua 

Father  of  Kiainui. 

Pipi 

Father  of  Kahue 

Punihahiha 

Received  L.C.A.  3826  in  181*8;  received  houselot  in  time  of 
Kamehameha  I. 

Spencer,  Ashford 

Acquired  interest  from  Keokikepa  in  L.C.A.  1*103  in  1868. 

Spencer,  Frances  Tasmania 

Acquired  interest  from  Keokikepa  in  L.C.A.  1*103  in  1868. 

Wahinenui,  L.  P. 

Born  in  North  Kohala  1827;  moved  to  Kawaihae  ca .   1839. 


/(w)    =  wahine,   i.e.  female/ 

71 


APPENDIX  G 


<K  fc A .  W'?  K  A  ^     * a  fc  »<&.  S> . 

_J    U     !       ....  -I    \i    U  vJ     ._  j  m..;  ~.j   ■.  J    ..J    "■,..:     „>•  .J 

Un  nc  aku  i  Iccia  In  ka  pnc  Iioona  kumu  kulcann  aina  \^^.s^^C\&v^^l^/\^y./^7^^/_ 

nona  kc  Kulcana  IIclu  u^'.'  o  i^(</l<'  //-■  -  lie  kulcann  kona  malalo  ilio  o  ke  Ano  Alodio,  a  c  liiki 
no  ia  in  ke  lioololi  no  kc  kulcana  Alodio  mamuli  o  kc  Kanawai,  aia  i  kona  manao,  a  i  ole  ia,  c  loaa  ia  ia  ke 
kulcana  no  rin  makaliiki  he  Kanakolu,  aia  i  kona  nianao. 

O  kcia  palapala  kc  lioomaopopo  i  kona  kulcana  innlalo  iho  o  kc  Ano  Alodio  i  ka  aina  ana  i  Iioopii  mai 


'JzfiMwJrtoW    (7(&J&fit'a>..  _  lie   <^/ii.c/liU 


ai  o  .  iyLaunx<w76W  (/wJnttt'a?..  _  ke  ±s77tecfii4a>c</.,  //tessa;. 


ma 


&&'&/#/, ma  ka  Mokupuni  o  ^U&n^-(n/44/_ 


kc  liookaaia  na  mca  lilo  no  ka  liana  ana  ncna  dala  ke^v   <g?  ■    c^~^     -    (.  (^?4?4/&^y  ft/<CLJ y. 

A  i  ole  e  liookaaia  ua  man  dala  la,  aole  e  lilo  keia  palapala  i  kulcana  maopopo  ia  ia.      Ua  liookoia  kcia 

kulcana  mamuli  o  kc  Kanawai  liou  i  lioolioloia  ma  ka  la  19  o  Tunc  M.  II.  1S52.      Aka,  koc  nac  na  kulcana  o 
na  kanaka  maloko. 

Ma  ke  kauolia  ana  mai  a  na  Luna  Iloona  kumu  kulcana  aina. 
Halchoona,  Honolulu,  Oalm. 


jona.  Honolulu,  Oahu.—/'                  *  ) 

./Z o  _<J24^^2&£: 1S5^  $ 


Kakauolclo  o  na  Luna. 


Loaa   mai  ia'u  na  dala  e  like  ma  ka  olelo  maluna. 

Kccna  Iloona,  Honolulu.  s~~/7 

6% 


12 


APPENDIX  H 
KA'OANA'EHA 


There  follows  below  in  chronological  order  the  historical 
references  found  to  date  concerning  Ka'oana'eha  and  not  directly 
concerned  with  land  commission  awards  at  Kawaihae.     Award  matters 
are  covered  in  the  report.     These  references  are  either  supple- 
mental to  or  support  data  about  Ka'oana'eha  and  others  used  in 
the  report. 

Ka'oana'eha  was  also  known  as  Mrs.  John  Young,  although  no  record 
has  been  found  of  a  formal  marriage.     She  was  also  known  as  Mary 
Kuamo ' o ,  Me lie  Kuamo ' o ,  Ka • oana ' eha  Kuamo ' o  and  "Kaowanaeha . " 
A  short  discussion  follows  the  references. 

(l)     The  author,  a  member  of  a  chiefly  family,  presents  her 

family  tradition.     Among  other  items  is  one  that  indicates 
that  high  chief  Keli'lmaika'i  married  high  chief ess 
Kaliko'oalani  of  the  Mamao  line  of  chiefs.     Their  daughter 
was  Ka'oana'eha,  who  was  Ik  or  l£  years  of  age  when  she 
first  met  John  Young  at  the  court  of  Kamehameha  I. 

Pratt  1920,  p.  37 


(2)      "The  first  wife  of  Young  died  of  a  pestilence,   supposedly 

cholera  which  swept  the   Islands  in  l80b  ....  On  the  death 
of  his  first  wife,  Young  married  Kaoanaeha,  a  niece  of 
Kamehameha  I,  by  whom  he  had  two  sons,  James  and  John,  and 
several  daughters."     /The  author  was  an  Anglican  Bishop  and 
close  to  Queen  Emma^T" 

Restarick  192U,  p.  22 

(James,  however,  was 

the  son  of  the  first  wife) 


(3)  May  21,  1807 

"A  large  double  canoe  came  round  the  point  and  entered 
^Cealakekua7  bay  at  seven  in  the  morning,  and  soon  after 
we  had  the  pleasure  to  see  the  Viceroy,  Mr.  Young,  on  board; 
in  his  suite  I  distinguished  his  lady,  a  niece  of  Tamaahmaah, 
who  for  looks  and  manners,  appears  much  superior  to  any  of 
the  sex  yet  seen  here." 

Iselin,  n.d.,  p.  66 
73 


(U)     June  13,   1807 

/at  Kealakekua  bay_7  "Mrs.  Young,  who  has  lived  some  time 
on  board  with  her  husband,    retired  this  morning  to  the  high 
bluff  near  the  well,  where  a  temporary  shed  had  been  raised 
for  her  with  coconut  leaves.      It  seems  that  during  certain 
indisposition  the  females  are  obliged  under  pain  of  death 
to  withdraw  for  some  days  to  the  woods  or  some  solitary  spot." 

Iselin,   n.d.  p.   71 


(5)     December  lU,   1825 

/at  Kawaihae/  Kamehameha   I  gave  John  Young  his   niece. 
"Her  name   is  Kaoanaeha.     This  woman  is  still  living  with 
him  and  has  a  large  family  of  children,  most  of  whom  have 
arrived  to  years  of  maturity." 

Bishop  182^ 


(6)  December  15,   1825 

/Rev.  A.   Bishop  ready  to  leave  Kawaihae7"    .    .    .  but  the 
importance  of  Mrs.  Young  has   induced  me  to  spend  the  day 
at  the  place   in  imparting  religious   instruction  to  herself 
and  oeople.     Pass   the  whole  morning  in  answering  questions. 
Mrs.  Y.   the  wife  of  my  host  and  several  of  her  people  have 
for  more  than  a  year  oast,   been  deeply  interested  in 
religious   things    .    .    .  Upon  the  whole,   the  word  of  God 
appears   to  have  influenced  her  heart,    together  with  the 
hearts  of  her  family,    to  have  cordially  embraced  the  Saviour." 

Bishop  1825 

(7)  1828 

/at  Kawaihae7  "/John  Young7  had  married  a  native  woman  of 
rank,  has  a  fine  family  of  sons  and  daughters,  and  is 
considered  a   chief   ....   got  up  at  midnight,  went  down 
to  the  grass  house  of  Mrs.  Young,  which  was  neat  and 
comfortable.     She   is  a  noble  woman.     She   lives   in  native 
style;    ..." 

L.  Judd  1928,  n.  36 
7k 


(8)     June  26,   1831* 

"...  First,   I  hereby  Bequeath  and  confirm  my  dear  Wife 
Mary  otherwise  called  Kuamoo  in  possession  of  all  those 
Lands  which  she  antecedent  to  the  date  hereof  has  received 
in  free  gift  from  me.     To  Wit  one  Land  situatate  in  the 
District  of  Puna  and  called  Kamomoa  also  one  Land  situated 
in  the  District  of  Hamakua  called  Koloakiu  also  four  Lands 
situated  in  the  District  of  Kohala  namely  Opuowao, 
Hoowalihalava,  Kealahewa  and  Kaupo,  all  in  the  island 
of  Hawaii.    ..." 

John  Young's  will; 
Probate  2UOI4, 
Supreme  Court; 
Record  Book  1,  p.   21 


(9)     February  23,   1837 

/at  Kawaihae/  "•    .    .and  called  upon  Mrs.  Young,  widow  of 
the  late  John  Young,   the  oldest  foreign  resident  of  the 
Sandwich  Islands.    .    .    .Mrs.  Young  is  a  sister  of  the  old 
King  Tamehameha,  and  is  now  probably  sixty  years  of  age, 
a  very  pleasant  and  lady-like  old  woman." 

Townsend  1839,  p.  280 
(he  was  confused  as  to 
her  relationship  to 
Kamehameha   I) 


(10)  January  22,   18^0 

"Melie  Kuamoo  died  January  22,   18£0,   relict  of  Jno.  Young, 
and  mother  of  His  Ex.  Keoni  Ana,  Minister  of   Interior, 
age  62  at  the  residence  of  Dr.  Rooke." 

Polynesian,  January  26, 
18^0,  p.  11*7,  col.  3 

(11)  January  23,   18^0 

A  diary  entry  indicates  Ka'oana'eha  was  buried  January  23, 

18£0  in  the  "Cemetary  of  Chiefs,"  outside  of  the  Royal  Cemetary. 

Richards  1970,  p.  3hl 
7* 


!t 


(12)     1866 


/obituary  of  Grace  Kamaikui   Rooke,   18667  "She  was   the  second 
daughter  of  John  Young.     Her  Majesty  Queen  Emma's  mother 
being  the  oldest,  and  was  of  high  chief  blood,   her  mother 
being  Kaoanaeha,   the  daughter  of  Keliimaikai,   a  kinsman 
and  warrior  of  Kamehameha  I.     From  the  family  Bible  of 
John  Young,  which  is  preserved  in  the  family,   we  learn  that 
the  deceased  lady  was  born  at  Kawaihae  /September  8,   1808/. " 

Hawaiian  Gazette, 
July  28,  1866,  p.  2, 
col.  3 


(13)     1880 


/obituary  of  Fanny  Kekela  Naea,   1880/  "The  high  chief  ess 
Fanny  Kekulauoiwa  Kekelaokalani  Young,  passed  away  on  the 
morning  of  the  Ivth  instant,   at  the  ripe  age  of  76  years. 
The  departed  chiefess  was  mother  of  our  revered  Queen  Dowager 
Emma  Kaleleonalani.     The  deceased  was  a  daughter  of  the 
Englishman  John  Young,   so  faithfully  attached  to  and  so 
distinguished  in  the  service  of  Kamehameha,    the  founder 
of  the  Hawaiian  dynasty.     Her  mother  was  the  high  chiefess 
Kaowanaeha,  who  gave  birth  to  the  departed  chiefess  on  the 
21st  day  of  July,   l80U,  when  the   Conqueror  was   in  the  height 
of  his  career.    .    .    .     The  remains  of  the  distinguished 
deceased  lie  in  state  at  the  mansion  of  Her  Majesty  the 
Queen  Dowager,  and  on  the  3rd  of  October  will  be  conveyed 
in  state  to  their  final  resting  place  among  the  remains  of 
Hawaiian  Kings  at  the  Royal  Mausoleum." 

Pacific  Commercial 
Advertiser,   September  11, 
1880,  p.  2,   col.  h 


The  fragmentary  documentation  available   indicates  that  Ka'oana'eha 
was  out  of  favor  in  Honolulu  chiefly  circles   in  her  later  lifetime, 
say  from  before  1835  through  18|?0.     Her  short  obituary,    (10)   above, 
indicates   this  because  of  its  minimum  identification  of  her  family 
relationships  and  without  mention  of  her  chiefly  status.      The  diary 
entry  (ll),  which  concerned  her  burial,  was  by  a  missionary  wife 
closely  associated  with  the  children  of  the  high  chiefs  in  a  boarding 


76 


school  situation.      If  not  kept  from  them  by  their  parents,   the 
children  would  have  been  aware  of  Ka'oana'eha  and  her  status  as 
a  high  chiefess.     The  missionary  wife's  diary  reflected  the 
attitude  of  the  chiefs'   children.     As  in  the  obituary,  she  iden- 
tified Ka'oana'eha  merely  as   the  mother  of  the  Premier.     The  burial 
itself  (no  Christian  service  is  mentioned)   lacked  the  pomp  and 
attention  given  other  dead  of  the  high  chief  class  both  before 
and  after  l8£0.     Safely  dead  and  buried  for  years,  Ka'oana'eha 
had  her  status  acknowledged  again  by  1866 — see  (12)   (13)  above. 

Supporting  the  view  that  Ka'oana'eha  may  have  been  an  embarrassment 
to  her  relatives  and  other  high  chiefs   in  Honolulu  is  the  18£6 
formal,  state  announcement  by  His  Hawaiian  Majesty  Kamehameha  IV 
that  he  intended  to  marry.     The  King  announced  during  a  secret 
privy  council  meeting  that  his  intended  bride  was   "...  Emma, 
Daughter  of  T.C.B.  Rooke  Esquire  M.D.,   and  grand  Daughter  of  the 
late  John  Young  Esquire;    ..."     Kuykendall  (1966:11:27^)  noted 
that  "the  king  mentioned  only  the  English  ancestors  of  Emma  and 
not  the  Hawaiian  ancestors,  from  whom  her  rank  as  a  chief 
was  derived."     (See  Privy  Council  records  Vol.  X:l*7,  May  19,   1865. 
The  marriage  took  place  June  19,   1856).     It  could  be  argued  that 
John  Young  was  a  high  chief  in  his  own  right,  having  won  in  a 
sense  a  battlefield  commission  as  high  chief  from  Kamehameha   I. 

The  use  by  Ka'oana'eha  of  the  name  Kuamo'o  may  provide  a  clue  to 
this  apparent  loss  of  favor.     She  was  known  as  Kuamo'o,   (8)   (10) 
above,  both  before  and  after  the   "Great  Revival"  of  Christian 
religion  in  the  Islands,  1837-I81i0  (Kuykendall  1957:II:lU*,  335). 
To  the  palace  and  the  Christian  chiefs,   the  name  Kuamo'o  may  have 
signified  resistance  on  her  part  to  Christianity  and  Western  values, 
and  support  on  her  part  of  the  traditional  Hawaiian  values,  perhaps 
including  the  pre-1819  Polynesian  religion.     Her  family  was 
associated  with  defense  of  that  religion. 

Kuamo'o  was  the  name  of  the  1819  battle  between  forces  led  by 
Kekuaokalani  and  the  forces  of  Kamehameha  II.     Kekuaokalani  led  an 
armed  revolt  against  the  king.     Kekuaokalani  was  killed  and  his 
array  routed.     Kamehameha   I  left  to  Kekuaokalani  the  guardianship 
of  the  family  war  god,  a  position  which  implied  also  guardianship 
of  the  Polynesian  religion.     Kekuaokalani  supported  the  retention 
of  the  Polynesian  taboo  system  recently  overthrown  by  Kamehameha   II. 
Ka'oana'eha  and  Kekuaokalani  were  brother  and  sister. 

A  high  chiefess  who  symbolized  in  her  name  and  perhaps  her  life 
the  resistance  to  the  Westernization  promoted  by  Kamehameha   II 


77 


and  Kamehameha   III  would  be  a  political  embarrassment.     Perhaps 
the  palace  intimates,   including  her  son,   the  Premier,  were 
thankful  that  Ka'oana'eha  kept  a  low  profile  through  her  residency 
at  Kawaihae  on  another  island.     Another  high  chief  ess  with  similar 
leanings  did  not  keep  a  low  profile  and  lived  in  Honolulu.     This  was 
Princess   Ruth  Ke'elikolani,  half-sister  of  Kamehameha   IV  and 
Kamehameha  V.     At  times,  she  was  a  contender  for  the  throne;   and 
always  a  political  embarrassment. 

The  apparent  lack  of  a  Christian  funeral  service  for  Ka'oana'eha 
in  183>0  implies  that  she,  even  though  familar  with  its  teachings, 
(6)  above,    rejected  Christianity.     Perhaps  she  did  not  attend 
services   in  the  Congregational  Church  structure  which  stood  behind 
her  home  at  Pahukanilua  from  1831*  through  her  death  in  l8£0. 
The  authorization  to  locate  a  Christian  church  there  may  have  been 
exclusively  that  of  John  Young.     Young  was  a  known  supporter  of 
Christianity  and  aided  the  landing  and  operations  of  Congregational 
missionaries.     But  he  did  not  Join  the  Congregational  Church. 
There  is  evidence  that  Young  was  of  the  Anglican  persuasion  (he  wrote, 
evidently  from  memory,   the  prayer  of  St.  Chrysostom  in  his  log  book). 
This  raises  the  question  of  the  relationship  between  John  Young 
and  Ka'oana'eha.     Was  their  marriage  a  matter  of  state  mandated  by 
Kamehameha   I?     Their  separate  housing  establishments  maintained 
over  decades  at  Pahukanilua  support  this  thesis.     To  carry  their 
apparently  diverse  religious  convictions  into  the  second  generation, 
it  can  be  said  that  Keoni  Ana  and  Grace  Kamaikui  Rooke  followed 
their  father's  lead;  while  Fanny  Kekela  and  Jane  Lahilahi  followed 
their  mother's. 

Finally,   there  is   the  question  of  the  relationship  between  Ka'oana'eha 
and  Puna,   the  man  who  was  her  resident  land  manager  at  Kawaihae  and 
with  whom  she  received  L.C.A.   U522  for  her  houselot  at  Pahukanilua. 
As  John  Young's  wife  or  concubine  and  later  widow,  Ka'oana'eha  may 
have  cohabited,  perhaps  conspiciously,  with  Puna  at  Pahukanilua. 


78 


GLOSSARY 


AHUPUA'A         Land  division,  usually  extending  from  mountain  to 
sea,  not  a  unit  of  area,  such  as  an  acre. 

ALI'I  High  chief  or  chiefess,  king,  queen,  noble. 

•HI'AINA       A  land  division  within  an  ahupua'a.     An  ahupua'a  is 
made  up  of  several   'ili'aina. 

KONOHIKI         Resident  land  manager  of  an  ahupua'a,  appointed  by 
the  ali'i  to  which  the  ahupua'a  is  assigned. 

KAMA'AINA      One  born  in ,  raised  in,  and  usually  still  resident 
of  an  ahupua'a. 

L.C.A.  Land  Commission  Award  by  the  Kingdom  of  Hawai'i. 

LUNA  Foreman,  as  one  who  may  direct  affairs  within  an 

'ili'aina,  and  works  under  direction  of  a  konohiki. 

MAKAHA  A  grate  in  a  fishpond  sluice  which  serves  to  retain 

adult  fish  within  the  pond;  usually  carries  an 
individual  name. 

MAKAI  A  direction  toward  the  seashore  when  viewed  from 

inland;  the  seashore  area  itself. 

MAUKA  A  direction  toward  inland  when  viewed  from  the  sea- 

shore or  from  offshore. 

PAHALE  A  houselot  enclosed  by  a  stonewall. 


79 


LITERATURE  CITED 


Abstract  of  Title 

197!?  of  The  Queen's  Medical  Center  (A  Hawaii  corporation) 

in  and  to  first:     portion  of  royal  patent  number 
1666,  land  commission  award  8£l£,  Part  1  to  Keoni 
Ana;    .    .    .  prepared  by  Title  Guaranty  of  Hawaii, 
Inc.,   Jan.,   /%  Vols^/.     Honolulu. 

Akahi,   J.  H. 

1903  sworn  testimony  on  Kawaihae  boundaries   in  boundary 

commission  record,   Hawaii  Island,   Dec.   19,   Book  C, 
pgs.  606-607. 

Akau,  Solomon 

1968  Personal,  on-site  interviews,  July  10,   1968,  Feb.  2, 
1978  1978,  Kawaihae.     /Akau  is  a  kama'aina  of  Kawaihae, 

and  of  a  Kawaihae  kama'aina  family  J 

Apple,  Russell  Anderson 

19£li  A  history  of  land  acquisition  for  Hawaii  National 

Park  to  Dec.  31,   1950.     M.A.   thesis,  University 
of  Hawaii.     Honolulu. 

1969  A  history  of  historic  structures,  Kawaihae,  South 
Kohala,  Hawaii  Island.     In  the  archaeological  surface 
survey  of  Puu  Kohala  Heiau  and  Mailekini  Heiau, 
South  Kohala,  Kawaihae,  Hawaii  Island,  by   Cluff, 
Kikuchi,  Apple  and  Sinoto,  Bernice  P.  Bishop  Museum, 
National  Park  Service  and  State  of  Hawaii  for 

U.  S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers;  Hawaii  State 
Archaeological  Journal  69-3,   Dept.  of  Land  and 
Natural  Resources,  Division  of  State  Parks.     Honolulu. 

1971  The  use,   construction  and  adaption  of  the  Hawaiian 

thatched  house,  National  Park  Service.     Honolulu. 

and  William  Kenji  Kikuchi 

1975  Ancient  Hawaii  shore  zone  fishponds:     an  evaluation 

of  survivors  for  historical  preservation,   National 
Park  Service.     Honolulu. 

Arago,   Jacques 

1823  Narrative  of  a  voyage  round  the  world  .    .    .   commanded 

by  captain  Freycinet,   during  the  years  1817,   1818, 
1819  and  1820.     London. 


80 


Barrere,    Dorothy  B. 

1962  Summary  of  Hawaiian  history  and  culture,    in  the 

national  survey  of  historic  sites  and  buildings, 
theme  XVI,   indigenous  peoples  and  cultures, 
Hawaii  aboriginal  culture,  A.D.  750-A.D.   1778, 
National  Park  Service.     Washington,    D.   C. 

Bishop,  Artemas,   the  Rev. 

1825  Manuscript  journal,  vol.  2,  pg.  605,   copy  in 

Hawaiian  Mission  Children's  Society.     Honolulu. 
Also  Missionary  Herald,   1827,  pg.  k9>     Honolulu. 

Boundary  Commission  Record 

1873 —         Kingdom,   Territory  of  Hawaii,  Hawaii  Island, 
1903  Book  B:     pgs.  73-75,  11*7 -1U9,  279-280,  390-391* 

(1873,  187U,  1876);  Book  C:     pgs.  597-613  (1903) 
Territory,  State  of  Hawaii,   Land  Management 
Office,   Department  of  Land  and  Natural  Resources. 
Honolulu. 

Buke  kakau  paa  no  ka  mehele 

I8I48  i  kooholoia  iwaena  o  Kamehameha  III  a  me  NaLii 

a  me  na  konohiki  ana,  Hale  Alii,  Jan.,  Archives 
of  Hawaii.     Honolulu. 

Bureau  of  Conveyances 

1912  Territory,  State  of  Hawaii,   Department  of  Land 

and  Natural  Resources.     Honolulu. 

Chamberlain,  Levy 

1825  Journal,   1822-I81i9,  Vol.  20,  pg.   7.     Hawaiian 

Mission  Children's  Society.     Honolulu. 

Chamisso,  Adelbert  von 

1939  Account  of  the  voyage  around  the  world  on  the  Rurik 

I8l5-l8l8,   in  the  collected  works  of  Adelbert  von 
Chamisso.     Leipzig,  n.d.,  k  vol.  Portion  on  Hawaii 
translated  German  to  English  by  Victor  S.  K. 
Houston  as   Chamisso  in  Hawaii,    in  U8th  annual 
report  of  the  Hawaiian  Historical  Society  for  the 
year  1939,  pgs.  55-82.     Honolulu. 

Chinen,  Jon  J. 

1958  The  great  mahele;  Hawaii's  land  division  of  18U8. 

Honolulu . 


81 


1961  Original  land  titles   in  Hawaii,     /ponolulu^ 

Doyle,  Emma  Lyons  (compiler) 

19b5  Makua  Laiana,   the  story  of  Lorenzo  Lyons. 

Honolulu . 

Duperrey,   Louis   Isadore 

1819  Plan  de  la  baie  de  Kohai-hai,   in  Freycinet  1829. 

/see  Kelly  197k,  pg.   12;  Healy  19^9,  pgs.  $0-$$7 

Foreign  Office  and  Executive 

n.d.  Document  206.     See  Kingdom  of  Hawaii. 

Foreign  Testimony 

18U7 —         See  Kingdom  of  Hawaii. 

Freycinet,  Louis   Claude  Desautes  de 

1829  Voyage  autour  de  monde,  execute  sur  les  corvettes 

de  S.M.  l'Uranie  et  la  Physicienne  pendant  les 
anees  1817,  1818,  1819,  et  1820.     Paris.     Translated 
French  to  English  by  Victor  S.  K.  Houston,  Houston 
Collection,  Bern ice  P.  Bishop  Museum,  Honolulu. 
Also  translated  by  Ella  Wiswell,  Bishop  Museum 
Library. 

Freycinet,  Rose  de  Saulces  de 

1927  Journal  of   .    .    .  Societe  d'Editions  Geographiques . 

Paris.     Translated  French  to  English  by  Victor  S.  K. 
Houston,  portions   in  Paradise  of  the  Pacific, 
Nov.  1936-  April  1937.     Honolulu. 

Great  Mahele  Book 

18U8  See  Kingdom  of  Hawaii;  also  Buke  kakau  paa  no  ka 

mehele  aina   .    .    . 

Hawaiian  Gazette 

1866  July  28.     Honolulu. 

Healy,   John  Raymond 

19^9  The  mapping  of  the  Hawaiian  Islands  from  1778 

to  18U8.     M.A.   thesis,   University  of  Hawaii. 
Honolulu. 


82 


Hook,  Samuel 

1978  Personal  interview  by  telephone,  June  20. 

^ook  is  a  Kawaihae  area  kama'aina^/ 

Horwitz,    Robert  H. 

196U  Public  land  policy  in  Hawaii:     land  exchanges, 

report  No.  2,   Legislative   Reference  Bureau, 
University  of  Hawaii.     Honolulu. 

Indices  of  Awards 

1929  Made  by  the  board  of  commissioners  to  quiet  land 

titles  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands.     Territory  of 
Hawaii.     Honolulu. 

Iselin,    Isaac 

n.d.  Journal  of  a  trading  voyage.     l80£-l808.     New  York. 

Jackson,  George  E.  Greeley 

1883  Chart  of  Kawaihae  Bay.     July,  for  the  British 

admiralty.     Hawaii  Government  Survey,  Survey 
Division,   Territory,  State  of  Hawaii,   Department 
of  Accounting  and  General  Services.     Honolulu. 
/See  Kelly  197U,  Pg.  13.7. 

Judd,  Laura  Fish 

1928  Honolulu,  sketches  of  the  life,  social,  political 

and  religious  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands  from  1828 
to  1861.     Honolulu. 

Kaahunaliiole 

18U7  Application  for  L.C.A.  Ul03,   Jan.  12.     Native 

Testimony  Vol.  h,  pg.  2. 

Kalualukela 

1873  Sworn  testimony  on  Kawaihae  boundaries,  in  boundary 

commission  record,  Nov.  15,  Book  B:     pgs.  73-75; 
Nov.  25,  Book  B:     pgs.  ll*7-ll*9. 

Kamoamoa  (land  of,   in  Puna,  Hawaii  Island) 

19U2  Memorandum  of  title  re  ahupuaa  of  Kamoamoa,  Puna, 

Hawaii,  filed  with  Deed  8237,  Land  Management 
Office.     /Prepared  by  George  E.  K.  Awai/ 


83 


Kamoehau 

1876     Sworn  testimony  on  Kawaihae  boundaries,  in  boundary 
commission  record,  Jan.  20,  Book  B:  pgs.  391-392. 

Kanaka nui,   S.  M. 

1903  Sworn  testimony  on  Kawaihae  boundaries,    in  boundary 

commission  record,   Dec.   19,   Book  C:     pgs.  607-611. 

Kaneahiku 

1876     Sworn  testimony  on  Kawaihae  boundaries,  in  boundary 
commission  record,  Jan.  20,  Book  B:  pgs.  390. 


Kaui 


18U8  Sworn  testimony  for  L.C.A.  Ul06,   Dec.   11.     Native 

Register  Vol.  8,  pgs.  3,  h;  Native  Testimony  Vol.  h, 
og.  ii. 


Keleikaheaawa 
18U8 


Sworn  testimony  before  land  commissioners,  Sept.   11, 
at  Kawaihae.     Native  Testimony  Vol.  U,  pgs.  6-7. 


Kelly,  Marion 
1971 


197h 


Kekaha:      'aina  malo'o,  historical  survey  and  back- 
ground of  Kaloko  and  Kuki'o  ahupua'a,   North  Kona, 
Hawaii,   report  71-2,   Department  of  Anthropology, 
Bernice  P.   Bishop  Museum.     Honolulu. 

Historical  survey,    in  Barrera  and  Kelly,  archaeological 
and  historical  surveys  of  the  Waimea  to  Kawaihae 
road  corridor,    Island  of  Hawaii,  Department  of 
Anthropology,  Bernice  P.  Bishop  Museum,  published 
by  Department  of  Transportation,   State  of  Hawaii, 
in  cooperation  with  the  Federal  Highway  Administra- 
tion, U.  S.  Department  of  Transportation  and 
Department  of  Land  and  Natural  Resources,   State 
of  Hawaii.     Hawaii  Historic  Preservation  Report  7U-1. 
Honolulu. 


Kiainiu 
1873 


Sworn  testimony  on  Kawaihae  boundaries,    in  boundary 
commission  record,   Nov.   l£,   Book  B:     pg.   75* 


King,  Ralph 
1978 


Personal  interview  by  telephone,  June  20.     /l(ing 
heads  the  Parker  Ranch  land  office,  WaimeaTT 


Qh 


Kingdom  of  Hawaii 

/l79£ —       Buke  kakau  paa  no  ka  mehele  aina   .    .    .   181*8,   Jan., 
1893.7        /Great  mahele  book7,  Archives  of  Hawaii.     Honolulu. 

Foreign  office  and  executive  Documents,  files, 
Archives  of  Hawaii.     Honolulu. 

Foreign  testimony  for  land  commission  awards, 
Archives  of  Hawaii.     Honolulu. 

Indices  of  awards  made  by  the  Board  of  Commissioners 
to  quiet  land  titles  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  /1929, 
a  compilation  by  the  Territory  of  Hawaii7.     Honolulu. 

Interior  Eepartment  documents,   letter  books, 
Archives  of  Hawaii.     Honolulu. 

Native  register  for  land  commission  awards  (contains 
applications),  Archives  of  Hawaii.     Honolulu. 

Native  testimony  for  land  commission  awards, 
Archives  of  Hawaii.     Honolulu. 

Privy  council  records,  Archives  of  Hawaii.     Honolulu. 

Probates,  supreme  court,  Archives  of  Hawaii. 
Honolulu . 

Royal  patents,  Archives  of  Hawaii.     Honolulu. 

Kotzebue,  Otto  von 

1821  A  voyage  of  discovery   .    .    .  I8l£-l8l8,    ...  in  the 

ship  Rurick.     London. 

Kuykendall,    Ralph  S. 

1°57  The  Hawaiian  kingdom,  1778-1851*,  foundation  and 

transformation,  Vol.   I.     Honolulu. 

1966  The  Hawaiian  kingdom,   l85h-l87U,   twenty  critical 
years,  Vol.   II.     Honolulu. 

1967  The  Hawaiian  kingdom,  197U-1893,   the  Kalakaua  dynasty, 
Vol.  III.     Honolulu. 


85 


Ladd,  Edmund  J. 

1977  Proposed  archeological  studies,   John  Young  Home- 
stead,  Puukohola  Heiau  National  Historic  Site, 
Kawaihae,  Hawaii,  a   research  proposal,    Dec, 
National  Park  Service.     Honolulu. 

Land  Commission  Awards 

181*7--         /compiled  in  indices  of  awards.   19297. 

Land  Management  Office 

n.d.  Now  Land  Management  Division,  State  of  Hawaii, 

Department  of  Land  and  Natural  Resources.     Honolulu. 

Land  Office 

n.d.     See  land  management  office. 

Land  Office  Deeds 

1959—    Filed  in  land  management  office. 

Lee,  Tuck  Wah 

1969     A  history  of  the  Keola  Hou  church,  Kawaihae, 
Hawaii.  Waimea. 

Loebenstein,  A.  B. 

1903     Map  of  Kawaihae  2,  registered  map  2230.  Survey 
Division,  Territory,  State  of  Hawaii,  Department 
of  Accounting  and  General  Services.  Honolulu;  and 

Sworn  testimony  before  Boundary  Commission,  Dec.  19, 
in  boundary  commission  record,  Book  C:  pgs.  599-613. 

Long  and  Melone 

1978  Title  searchers'  notes  on  abstracts  of  titles, 
Kawaihae  area.  Honolulu. 

Low,   I.  S. 

1861  Letter,   Jan.   15,   from  Kawaihae,    to  Wm.  Webster, 

land  agent  for  his  majesty,   interior  department 
letter  books,  Kingdom  of  Hawaii. 

Lyman,  Frederick  L. 

1903  Decision,  boundaries  of  Kawaihae  2nd,   Dec.   19, 

in  boundary  commission  record,   Book  C:     pgs.  612-613. 


86 


Lyons,  Lorenzo,   the  Rev. 

I833 —         Waimea  (Hawaii)  mission  station  reports,  Hawaiian 
18£9  Mission  Children's  Society.     Honolulu. 

19U5  Diary,  quoted  in  Makua  Laiana,  Emma  Lyons  Doyle, 

compiler.     Honolulu. 

McDonald,  J.  D. 

1891  Chart  of  Kawaihae  bay,  for  U.  S.  Navy,  part  of 

Hawaii  harbors,   registered  map  209b,   Survey  Division, 
Territory,  State  of  Hawaii,  Department  of  Accounting 
and  General  Services.     Honolulu. 

Macrae,  James 

1922  With  Lord  Byron  at  the  Sandwich  Islands  in  182£   .    .    . 

extracts  of  manuscript  diary  of   .    .    .,  W.  F.  Wilson, 
editor.     Honolulu. 

Manby,   Thomas 

1929  Journal  of  Vancouver's  voyage  to  the  Pacific  Ocean 

/1791-17937,  manuscript- typescript  copy  of 
Hawaiian  portion  in  Bishop  Museum,  Honolulu, 
/see  Honolulu  Mercury,   June-August  19297* 

Menssies,  Archibald 

1920  Hawaii  nei  128  years  ago  /l792_7,  W.  F.  Wilson, 

editor.     Honolulu,     ^see  Thrum,  Hawaiian  annual 
for  1909,  pg.  92/. 

Nahea 

I87I1  Sworn  testimony  on  Kawaihae  boundaries,   in  boundary 

commission  record,   June  16,   Book  B:     pgs.   279-280. 

Naniu 

l8ii8  Sworn  testimony  before  land  commissioners,  Sept.   11, 

at  Kawaihae.     Native  Testimony,  Vol.   k,  pgs.  6-7. 

Native  Register 

18U7 —         See  Kingdom  of  Hawaii. 

Native  Testimony 

l8h?-~         See  Kingdom  of  Hawaii. 

Nawahi,  S.  W. 

1903     Sworn  testimony  on  Kawaihae  boundaries,  in  boundary 
commission  record,  Dec.  19,  Book  C:  pgs.  603-6o£. 

87 


Pacific  Commercial  Advertiser 

1880  September  11.     Honolulu. 

Palacio,   Matilda   (Mary)  Alfapada 

1978  Personal  interview  by  telephone,  August  2k » 

Parker,  John  Palmer 

I876  Sworn  testimony  on  Kawaihae  boundaries,   in  boundary 

commission  record,  January  2b,  Book  B:     pg.   392. 

Polynesian 

1850-  Honolulu. 

18^1 

Pratt.     Elizabeth  Kekaaniauokalani  Kalaninuiohilaukapu 

1920  History  of  Keoua  Kalanikupaapa-i-kalani-nui,  father 

of  Hawaii  kings,  and  his  descendents,  with  notes 
on  Kamehameha   I,  first  king  of  all  Hawaii.     Honolulu. 

Privy  Council  Records 

1850--         See  Kingdom  of  Hawaii. 

Probates 

1835- -         See  Kingdom  of  Hawaii. 

Pukui,  Mary  Kawena,  Samuel  H.  Elbert  and  Esther  T.  Mookini 
197b  Place  names  of  Hawaii.     Honolulu. 

Puna ,   Ioba 

I8I18  Sworn  testimony  before  land  commissioners,   Jan.  6, 

at  Kawaihae.     Native   Testimony  Vol.  8,  pgs.   6-7. 

Registered  maps  and  charts. 

1819--         Filed  with  Survey  Division,   Territory,  State  of 
Hawaii,    Department  of  Accounting  and  General 
Services.     Honolulu. 

Res ta rick,  Henry  B. 

1921a  Hawaii  1778-1920  from  the  view  point  of  a  bishop.    .    . 

Honolulu . 

Richards,  Mary  Atherton 

1970  Hawaiian  chiefs'    childrens '    school;  a  record  compiled 

from  the  diary  and  letters  of  Amos  Starr  Cooke  and 
Juliette  Montague  Cooke.      Rutland,   Vt. 


88 


Rooke,   Thomas   Charles  Byde 

l8ii7  Letter,  June  2,  with  enclosures,  to  land 

commissioners,   interior  department  letter  book, 
Kingdom  of  Hawaii. 

18U8  Letter,  August  2£,  with  enclosures,   to  Kamehameha   III, 

interior  department  letter  book,  Kingdom  of  Hawaii. 

Sworn  testimony,  Sept.   1,   Native  Testimony,  Vol.  2, 
pg.  £73. 

Royal  Patents 

181*8 —         See  Kingdom  of  Hawaii. 

Sandwich  Island  Mission 

18U3  Minutes  of  general  meeting,  Hawaiian  Mission 

Children's  Society.     Honolulu. 

Silva,   Charles 

1978  Personal  interview  by  telephone,  Aug.  16. 

Stokes,  John  F.  G. 

1938     Nationality  of  John  Young,  a  chief  of  Hawaii,  in 
kith   annual  report  of  the  Hawaiian  historical 
society  for  1938.  Honolulu. 

Tax  Key  Maps 

1932—         Territory,  State  of  Hawaii,  Department  of  Taxation. 
Honolulu. 

Territory  of  Hawaii 

19£8  Third  circuit  court,   civil  cases  21*5  and  276  combined 

(eminent  domain  proceedings  for  Kawaihae  deep  water 
harbor).     Hilo. 

Townsend,   John  K. 

1839  Narrative  of  a  journey  across  the  Rocky  Mountains  to 

the  Columbia   River  and  a  visit  to  the  Sandwich 
Islands,    Chili,  etc.  Philadelphia. 

U.  S.  Geological  Survey 

1956  Topographic  map,  Kawaihae,  Hawaii,  quadrangle, 

715>  minute  series. 


89 


Vancouver,  George 

1801     A  voyage  of  discovery  .  .  .  1790,  1791,  1792,  1793, 
179U  and  179£  .  .  .  /£  VolsJ7.  London. 

"Voyage" 

182 h  Voyage  through  the  islands  of  the  Pacific  Ocean 

/compiled,  based  on  James  Morris'   account  of 
Arrow's  voyage/.     Dublin. 

Wahinenui,  L.  P. 

I876  Sworn  testimony  on  Kawaihae, boundaries,   in  boundary 

commission  record,  Jan.  21*,  Book  B:     pgs.   392-393. 

Young,   John  /0lohana7 

n.d.  Log  Book,  original.     Archives  of  Hawaii. 

1798-  Diary,  as  transcribed  by   Robert  E.  Van  Dyke,   in 

1799  whose  possession  diary  is.      Diary  not  available 

for  inspection. 

ca.  1827  Will,  witnessed,  but  undated,  foreign  register 

Vol.   II,  pg.  71. 

183U  Last  will  and  testament,   foreign  register  Vol.    II, 

pgs.  68-70. 

Yzendoom,    Reginald 

1927  History  of  the  Catholic  mission  in  the  Hawaiian 

Islands.     Honolulu. 


90 


