Reciprocal  EvaluationTour 
of  U.S.  Facilities  And  Programs  ForThe  Blind 
By  Experts  From  The  U.S.S.R. 


American  Foundation  for  the  Blind 


Of  u. 


Reciprocal  Evaluation  Tour 
S.  Facilities  And  Programs  For 
By  Experts  From  The  U.  S.  S. 


The  Blind 

R. 


Final  Report 
of  the 

International  Exchange  of  Experts  (USSR-USA) 
November  28  --  December  7,  1976 


Program  Director 

Loyal  E.  Apple,  Executive  Director 
American  Foundation  for  the  Blind 


Program  Coordinator 
Jack  Ross 

Assistant  to  the  Executive  Director 
American  Foundation  for  the  Blind 


Program  Reporter 
Zofja  S.  Jastrzembska 

This  project  was  supported,  in  part,  by  Research  Grant  No. 
22-F-59016/2-01  from  the  Rehabilitation  Services  Administration 
of  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Health,  Education  and  Welfare,  Wash- 
ington, D.  C.  20201;  in  part  by  National  Industries  for  the 
Blind,  1445  Broad  Street,  Bloomfield,  New  Jersey  07003;  and  in 
part  by  the  American  Foundation  for  the  Blind,  15  West  16th 
Street,  New  York,  New  York  10011. 

American  Foundation  for  the  Blind 
15  West  16th  Street 
New  York,  New  York  10011 


RECIPROCAL  EVALUATION  TOUR  OF  U.S.  FACILITIES  AND 
PROGRAMS  FOR  THE  BLIND  BY  EXPERTS  FROM  THE  U.S.S.R. 


Introduction 


The  recent  tour  of  the  Soviet  experts,  which  lasted  ten  days,  from 
November  28  to  December  7,  1976,  was  a return  visit.  It  was  a sequel 
to  a trip  to  the  Union  of  Soviet  Socialist  Republics  (U.S.S.R.)  by 
a group  of  specialists  from  the  United  States  during  the  autumn  of 
1975.  The  Soviet  delegation  was  headed  by  Mr.  Boris  Zimin,  Presi- 
dent of  the  All-Russia  Association  of  the  Blind  and  Chairman  of  the 
World  Council  for  the  Welfare  of  the  Blind.  He  was  accompanied  by 
three  other  delegates:  Mr.  Akaki  A.  Goglidze,  President  of  the 
Georgian  Association  of  the  Blind;  Mr.  Sergei  A.  Jamakochian,  head  of 
the  Department  of  Employment  of  the  Russian  Federation  of  Soviet 
Socialist  Republics  Ministry  of  Social  Security,  and  Mr.  Mikhail  E. 
Gorelik,  Principal  of  the  Moscow  School  for  Partially  Sighted  Children. 
The  tour  included  visits  to  rehabilitation  and  educational  institutions 
sheltered  workshops  and  medical  and  cultural  facilities.  It  was  spon- 
sored by  the  American  Foundation  for  the  Blind,  Rehabilitation  Services 
Administration  of  the  Department  of  Health,  Education  and  Welfare  and 
National  Industries  for  the  Blind. 

The  delegates  were  experts  in  social  action  and  organization,  adminis- 
tration and  education.  They  were  also  interested  and  informed  in 
the  areas  of  technological  and  even  medical  research,  however,  these 
are  not  the  actual  spheres  of  their  activities.  Mr.  Zimin  is  a blinded 
veteran  of  World  War  II.  He  does  not  speak  English.  It  is  indicative 
of  his  impressive  abilities  that  he  is  a leader  in  work  for  the  blind 
not  only  in  the  U.S.S.R.  but  also  on  the  international  scene.  Through- 
out the  tour,  as  the  spokesman  for  the  delegation,  Mr.  Zimin  asked 
probing  questions  aimed  at  elucidating  the  scope  and  logistics  of  pro- 
grams and  institutions  the  group  visited.  He  wanted  to  know  the  size 
of  the  budget  and  the  sources  of  funding;  the  locus  of  power — who  set 
policies,  who  carried  out  the  executive  functions,  in  whom  was  the 
final  authority  vested;  staff  size  and  numbers  of  blind  persons  served; 
the  composition  of  the  population  served  and  how  they  gained  access  to 
the  services — mode  of  referral,  criteria  for  eligibility,  fees.  At  the 
outset  of  the  tour  the  delegates  had  been  told  that  there  were  some 
425  agencies  serving  the  blind  in  the  United  States.  During  his  first 
few  meetings  with  groups  of  people  working  with  the  blind  Mr.  Zimin 
asked  how  Americans  coordinated  services  for  the  blind  in  view  of  such 
a large  number  of  independent  organizations.  His  question  was  met 
with  laughter  but  no  concrete  answer.  Later  in  the  tour  he  no  longer 
asked  this  question,  having  presumably  drawn  his  own  conclusions. 

One  problem  which  surfaced  as  soon  as  the  delegates  had  an  opportunity 
to  examine  the  tour  program  was  the  absence  of  the  "cultural  component" 
They  wished  to  see  something  of  American  life  and  culture  in  general, 
Mr.  Zimin  said,  not  merely  work  for  the  blind.  There  seemed  to  be  a 
genuine  cultural  difference  involved.  The  program  had  been  conceived 
by  the  organizers  very  functionally  in  terms  of  what  was  relevant  to 


. 


■ ■'  ;..fc 

■ 


■ 

1 


2. 


the  purpose  of  the  tour.  The  Soviet  delegates  took  a much  broader  view 
of  man  and  his  environment.  Culture  was  an  integral  part  of  life  and 
the  environment  a thing  of  concrete  interest.  The  population  of  each 
city  visited,  the  age,  cost  and  functions  of  major  buildings,  the  en- 
rollment at  universities,  prices  of  all  manner  of  consumer  goods  and 
services,  the  welfare  system,  the  length  of  each  tunnel  traversed  and 
medical  services  in  the  United  States  are  just  a sampling  of  the  infor- 
mation the  visitors  wanted.  Their  interest  in  things  American  was  both 
concrete  and  all-embracing.  It  was  necessary  to  make  some  alterations 
in  the  program  to  accommodate  the  delegates'  desire  to  see  something  of 
the  country  they  were  visiting  for  the  first  time.  It  was  not  possible, 
however,  to  fit  in  attendance  at  any  cultural  events.  This  is  a point 
that  should  be  kept  in  mind  when  planning  future  tours  for  visitors 
from  the  Soviet  Union,  and  probably  from  other  countries  as  well. 

The  tour  program  was  loaded  to  capacity,  if  not  beyond  it.  Nearly 
every  day  travel,  site  visits,  meetings  with  professionals  and  official 
functions  lasted  from  early  morning  until  late  at  night.  At  practically 
all  the  institutions  they  visited  the  delegates  received  written  material; 
they  took  notes  during  site  visits  and  discussions,  and  they  were  given 
descriptive  literature  on  all  the  technological  devices  they  were  shown. 
There  was  no  time  during  the  trip  to  go  over  any  of  this.  It  will, 
however,  provide  material  for  the  delegates  to  write  their  own  report 
on  the  tour . 

The  present  report  describes  the  tour  and  presents  some  of  the  reactions 
of  the  Soviet  experts  as  they  could  be  observed,  as  well  as  some  com- 
parisons between  the  two  systems  based  on  the  comments  of  the  delegates. 

A more  complete  discussion  of  the  trip  from  the  point  of  view  of  the 
Soviet  visitors  will  be  available  when  their  own  report  of  the  tour  has 
been  written.  However,  some  comments  on  the  two  systems  and  some  con- 
clusions from  the  American  point  of  view  are  presented  in  the  final 
portion  of  this  report. 

The  Tour 


New  York 

The  delegation  spent  the  morning  of  Monday,  November  29  at  the  American 
Foundation  for  the  Blind  ( AFB) . After  a welcome  by  the  Executive 
Director,  Mr.  Loyal  E.  Apple,  they  were  shown  some  of  the  aids  and 
appliances  for  the  blind  available  through  AFB  and  were  presented  copies 
of  the  AFB  Catalog  of  Aids  and  Appliances.  The  delegates  were  particu- 
larly interested  in  the  talking  calculators,  very  new  devices  on  which 
marketing  has  begun  only  recently.  Later  that  morning  the  delegation 
visited  the  AFB  model  shop  and  laboratory  where  the  manufacture  of 
some  of  the  items  and  the  adaptation  of  others  from  standard  instru- 
ments used  by  the  sighted  is  carried  out. 

The  delegation  also  visited  the  recording  studios  and  the  plant  manu- 
facturing talking  book  records  for  the  Library  of  Congress.  The  AFB 
representative  told  them  that  this  operation  was  carried  out  under 
contract  to  the  Library  of  Congress,  Division  for  the  Blind  and  Physic- 
ally Handicapped.  It  employs  professional  actors  as  readers  and  the 
records  produced  are  distributed  to  regional  libraries  by  the  Library 
of  Congress.  The  selection  of  titles  and  the  number  of  each  title  pro- 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2017  with  funding  from 
American  Printing  House  for  the  Blind,  Inc. 


https://archive.org/details/reciprocalevaluaOOprog 


3. 


duced  are  decisions  of  the  Library  of  Congress.  The  AFB  representative 
also  explained  that  there  also  are  a number  of  voluntary  organizations 
which  produce  recordings  in  smaller  numbers  to  meet  special  needs,  such 
as  those  of  blind  students  or  professionals. 

The  delegation  then  conferred  with  Mr.  Apple  and  the  Department  Directors 
of  AFB.  Mr.  Zimin  was  interested  in  the  funding  and  functions  of  AFB. 

Mr.  Apple  explained  that  with  the  exception  of  the  talking  book  opera- 
tion, which  was  a federal  contract,  all  of  AFB ' s funding  comes  from 
private  sources,  donations  from  the  general  public  and  revenues  from 
endowment  funds.  Mr.  Apple  also  outlined  the  history  of  the  organization 
and  its  structure. 

The  same  day  the  delegation  attended  a luncheon  in  the  board  room  of 
the  New  York  Association  for  the  Blind  (Lighthouse).  Mr.  Wesley  D. 
Sprague,  Executive  Director  of  the  Association,  gave  a presentation  in 
which  he  outlined  the  organization,  financing,  philosophy  and  objectives 
of  the  New  York  Association  for  the  Blind  and  gave  an  overview  of  its 
service  programs.  Over  six  thousand  blind  persons  have  been  served 
by  the  Lighthouse  in  1976.  Some  time  was  spent  in  explaining  the  board 
of  directors  system  of  governing  an  organization.  It  was  new  to  the 
Soviet  delegation  and  elicited  many  questions.  The  selection  of  promin- 
ent persons  in  the  community,  interested  in  the  work  of  an  organization 
and  willing  to  contribute  their  time  gratis,  and  their  accession  to  the 
Board  of  Directors  by  decision  of  similar  persons  already  on  the  Board 
to  constitute  the  highest  authority  of  an  organization  was  a difficult 
concept  for  the  Soviet  delegates.  They  encountered  a number  of  organi- 
zations governed  by  a board  of  directors  during  their  tour  and  continued 
to  inquire  about  the  criteria  and  mechanisms  for  accession  of  this  body. 

In  New  York  City  the  services  of  the  New  York  Association  for  the  Blind 
are  provided  on  the  premises  of  the  Lighthouse.  Due  to  rather  different 
local  conditions,  the  Westchester  branch  of  the  Association  has  an  out- 
reach program.  While  it  was  not  possible  for  the  delegates  to  visit 
this  facility  its  work  was  outlined  by  Mr.  Chester  T.  Williams,  Director 
of  the  Westchester  Lighthouse.  Specialists  go  out  to  the  homes  of  blind 
persons  to  provide  services  and  training  in  self-care,  homemaking  and 
mobility.  They  also  assist  blind  persons  in  the  Westchester  area  to 
make  full  use  of  any  community  facilities  available  which  meet  their 
personal  needs.  A film  was  shown  highlighting  the  various  aspects 
of  this  program. 

The  delegation  then  visited  the  mobility  training  unit  where  they 
were  shown  electronic  mobility  aids.  Training  with  these  aids  is  avail- 
able at  the  Lighthouse  in  addition  to  the  standard  long  cane  training. 

These  devices  were: 

The  Path  Sounder,  an  ultrasonic  device  the  size  of  a small  transistor 
radio,  worn  on  the  chest.  The  device  emits  ultrasonic  waves  which  are 
reflected  by  any  obstacle  in  front  of  the  user,  are  picked  up  by  the 
instrument's  receiver  and  transformed  into  audible  sound  whose  pitch 
varies  with  the  proximity  of  the  object.  The  closer  the  obstacle  the 
higher  the  pitch.  The  device  can  also  emit  vibration  in  lieu  of  sound 
and  can  therefore  be  used  by  deaf-blind  persons.  The  device  is  used 
in  conjunction  with  the  long  cane  as  it  cannot  provide  information  regard 


4 . 


ing  ground-level  hazards. 

The  Bionic  Cane  which  utilizes  laser  beams  in  three  directions:  upward 
for  overhead  hazards,  straight  ahead  at  two  mutually  exclusive  distances 
and  downward  for  information  on  step-down  changes  in  ground  level.  The 
laser  beams  operate  in  a manner  analogous  to  the  ultrasonic  sound  waves 
of  the  Path  Sounder,  producing  audible  signals  when  hazards  are  present 
in  the  user's  path.  The  Cane  has  an  on-off  switch  which  permits  its 
use  as  a long  cane  with  no  audible  signal  if  so  desired.  It  can  also 
be  switched  over  to  a vibratory  signal  in  lieu  of  an  audible  one. 

The  Sonic  Guide,  an  ultrasonic  device  which  operates  on  the  same  princi- 
ple as  the  Path  Sounder:  ultrasonic  waves  produced  by  the  instrument 
are  reflected  back  from  objects  into  the  device  which  transforms  them 
into  an  audible  signal.  The  signals  are  transmitted  into  the  user's 
ears  over  miniature  speakers  which  do  not  impede  his  perception  of 
sounds  from  the  environment.  The  fact  that  the  device  is  housed  in  a 
pair  of  spectacles  and  thus  worn  on  the  head  greatly  increases  its 
effectiveness  in  scanning  the  environment  as  head  and  neck  movements  are 
closely  involved  in  the  normal  processes  of  localization. 

This  device  also  is  intended  for  use  in  conjunction  with  the  long  cane. 

It  adds  greatly  to  the  user's  perception  of  his  environment,  beyond  the 
Minimal  requirements  for  simple  navigation. 

Mr.  Zimin  had  reservations  regarding  the  large  amount  of  audible  output 
from  these  devices.  He  doubted  its  acceptability  to  most  blind  users, 
particularly  in  crowded  urban  environments  where  the  devices  would 
be  constantly  activated.  In  discussing  mobility  training  in  the  U.S.S.R., 
Mr.  Zimin  said  that  at  present  a regular  white  cane  is  used.  It  serves 
both  as  a mobility  aid  and  as  a signal  that  the  user  is  blind.  He  felt 
that  the  long  cane  was  an  extremely  useful  device  and  stated  that  it 
would  shortly  be  introduced  in  the  Soviet  Union.  At  present  instructors 
are  being  sent  from  the  German  Democratic  Republic  to  the  United  Kingdom 
to  receive  training  in  the  long  cane  technique.  Upon  their  return  they 
will  spend  some  time  in  the  Soviet  Union  working  with  Soviet  specialists 
who  will  then  be  prepared  to  carry  on  on  their  own. 

Fencing  as  part  of  mobility  training  was  demonstrated  next.  Its  purpose 
is  to  develop  body  coordination,  a sense  of  rhythm  in  the  trainee's 
movements  and  an  ability  to  localize  the  oponent  and  his  movements.  This 
fencing  differs  from  the  sport  as  practiced  by  the  sighted  in  that  the 
aim  is  not  to  touch  the  oponent 's  body  but  to  make  contact  blade  to 
blade . 

The  areas  of  the  Lighthouse  devoted  to  rehabilitation  and  educational 
services  and  the  Child  Development  Center  were  also  visited.  In  the 
Child  Development  Center  the  indoor  play  area  and  equipment  for  pre- 
school children  was  inspected  and  the  roof-top  outdoor  play  area,  which 
includes  a swimming  pool  was  shown. 

In  the  Word  Processing  Center  a number  of  technological  devices  were 
shown.  These  included  the  Optacon  and  the  Stereotoner  reading  machines 
for  the  totally  blind  and  closed  circuit  T.V.  (C.C.T.V.)  systems  used 
for  reading  and  writing  by  legally  blind  persons  with  residual  vision. 

One  of  the  C.C.T.V.  systems  incorporated  a typewriter.  This  permitted 


' 


. 


5. 


the  viewing  of  the  text  on  the  T.  V.  screen  as  it  was  being  typed. 

The  Optacon  is  the  size  of  an  average  cassette  tape  recorder.  It  has 
as  optical  scanner  slightly  larger  than  a lipstick  which  picks  up  the 
light  and  dark  patterns  of  the  printed  page  (or  other  material)  and 
transmits  them  over  the  connecting  wire  to  the  main  body  of  the  machine. 
There  the  signals  are  translated  into  a tactual  display.  The  tactual 
display  matrix  consists  of  a rectangular  array  of  rods.  Those  corres- 
ponding to  the  dark  portions  of  the  visual  pattern  picked  up  by  the 
scanner  vibrate,  thus  presenting  a tactual  replica  of  the  letter  shapes. 
The  user  holds  the  index  finger  of  the  left  hand  over  the  display  matrix 
to  perceive  the  letters.  He  uses  the  right  hand  to  guide  the  scanner 
along  the  lines  of  print.  Several  additional  devices  are  available  for 
use  in  training  Optacon  users:  a visual  display  for  the  teacher  which 
shows  what  is  being  tactually  displayed  to  the  student  and  tracking 
aids  which  can  guide  the  scanner  across  the  page. 

The  Stereotoner,  a somewhat  smaller  device,  is  similar  to  the  Optacon 
in  its  scanning  function  but  produces  a stereophonic  audible  tonal  display 
instead  of  a tactual  one.  The  instrument  produces  ten  different  tones, 
one  for  each  photocell  in  the  probe  camera  scanning  the  print.  Lower 
parts  of  letters  produced  lower  pitched  tones,  upper  parts  higher  tones. 

In  addition  to  the  distinction  in  pitch,  the  lower  parts  of  letters 
appear  to  originate  from  the  user's  left,  the  middle  parts  from  the 
center,  and  the  upper  parts  from  the  right.  The  device  is  suspended 
around  the  user's  neck  when  in  use,  leaving  both  hands  free. 

Mr.  Zimin  tried  using  the  Optacon  himself  and  on  this  first  encounter 
with  the  device  he  was  skeptical  regarding  its  usefulness.  He  felt 
reading  in  this  manner  would  be  extremely  slow.  He  was  familiar  with 
a device  similar  to  the  Stereotoner,  developed  in  the  U.S.S.R.,  and 
commented  that  the  tones  emitted  by  the  Stereotoner  had  an  agreeable 
sound . 

The  offices  of  the  Lighthouse  were  also  visited.  A number  of  blind 
and  visually  impaired  persons  were  seen  performing  regular  office 
tasks  as  employees  of  the  Lighthouse. 

Finally,  the  delegates  visited  the  Low  Vision  Clinic.  It  serves  about 
twelve  hundred  persons  per  year,  both  the  legally  blind  and  those 
partially  sighted  persons  for  whom  conventional  corrective  lenses  are 
insufficient.  Dr.  Eleanor  Faye  is  Medical  Director  of  the  Low  Vision 
Service.  It  is  one  of  several  such  specialized  clinics  in  the  United 
States.  Clients  come  through  various  channels,  including  self-referral 
and  referral  through  other  agencies  and  hospitals.  The  cost  of  lenses 
varies  from  $60  to  $200  but  in  those  cases  where  the  patient  is  unable 
to  meet  the  expense  the  Lighthouse  or  in  some  cases  the  referring  agency 
covers  the  cost.  The  Clinic's  services  include  provision  of  the  appro- 
priate lenses,  training  in  their  use  and  a follow-up  to  insure  the  client 
is  using  the  low  vision  aid  successfully. 

The  day  ended  with  a reception  at  the  Lighthouse.  Among  the  guests 
were  a number  of  blind  persons  of  both  sexes  who  are  pursuing  profes- 
sional careers  in  various  fields.  The  sponsors  of  the  tour  tried  to 
provide  an  opportunity  for  the  delegates  to  meet  blind  persons  of  this 
caliber  at  a number  of  points  during  their  visit  to  emphasize  the 


6. 


orientation  toward  a high  level  of  achievement  for  the  blind  in  the 
United  States. 

In  the  evening  the  delegates  attended  a dinner  in  their  honor  at  the 
World  Trade  Center  "Windows  on  the  World"  restaurant. 

The  morning  of  Tuesday,  November  30,  a visit  to  two  Garden  City  Long 
Island  day  schools  had  been  scheduled.  The  delegates  were  to  see  the 
integration  of  blind  children  into  a regular  school  for  the  sighted. 
However,  in  deference  to  their  desire  to  see  something  of  New  York 
City  this  part  of  the  program  was  cancelled  with  the  hope  that  a 
similar  visit  could  be  scheduled  later  on  during  the  trip.  After  a 
morning  of  sightseeing  and  lunch  at  a MacDonald's  along  the  way  the  group 
went  to  the  Helen  Keller  National  Center  for  Deaf-blind  Youths  and 
Adults,  Sands  Point,  Long  Island. 

Mr.  Sam  Gluck,  staff  psychologist,  outlined  the  genesis  of  the  facility. 
It  was  an  outcome  of  stepped-up  Federal  funding  for  the  rehabilitation 
of  the  disabled  and  of  the  recognition  of  the  need  for  a special  center 
for  the  deaf-blind,  who  could  not  be  served  adequately  by  facilities 
designed  for  those  only  deaf  or  only  blind.  He  also  outlined  the 
financing  and  staffing  of  the  Center.  The  present  Center  is  a new 
structure  and  has  been  in  operation  since  the  summer  of  1976.  It 
serves  deaf-blind  persons  from  the  age  of  17  years  and  has  very  minimal 
requirements  regarding  level  of  functioning  at  intake.  Mr.  Zimin 
inquired  whether  starting  at  a much  earlier  age  would  not  be  more 
effective.  Mr.  Gluck  agreed  that  this  was  a problem  but  the  Center's 
mandate  was  to  deal  with  adults.  It  was  the  task  of  schools  to  deal 
with  the  children.  Unfortunately,  judging  by  the  condition  of  many 
of  the  trainees  the  Center  was  receiving,  the  task  was  not  being  tackled 
adequately. 

The  Center  provides  assessment  services — physical,  psychological  and 
pre-vocational — and  training  in  all  areas  needed  by  the  client.  These 
include  audio  and  speech  training,  communication,  self-care  and  home- 
making, social  skills,  physical  training  to  counteract  debility,  manual 
skills  and  pre-vocational  training.  Each  student  has  an  individual 
curriculum  developed  to  fit  his  special  needs.  Medical  and  psychiatric 
services  are  provided  on  the  premises  on  a part-time  basis.  The  Center 
also  has  a research  component  and  is  accumulating  statistical  data  on 
the  deaf-blind  in  the  United  States. 

The  delegates  then  visited  some  of  the  facilities  of  the  center.  These 
included  a model  kitchen  and  bedroom  for  training  in  housekeeping 
skills;  the  gymnasium  where  they  were  shown  special  equipment  used 
for  strengthening  specific  muscle  groups,  particularly  of  the  hands, 
arms,  and  legs;  the  infirmary  and  a lounge  and  kitchen  where  students 
prepare  food  and  entertain  tuests  as  part  of  their  training  in  social 
skills.  Another  feature  of  interest  was  a room  devoted  to  sensory 
training  and  movement.  It  was  equipped  with  a vibrating  floor  linked 
to  audio  equipment.  Dance  movements  can  be  practiced  in  relation  to 
both  auditory  cues  and  the  related  vibrations  perceived  through  the 
feet.  The  audio  equipment  can  also  be  used  alone  for  training  in 
identification  of  significant  auditory  cues. 

The  delegates  also  met  a prominent  deaf-blind  man.  Dr.  Robert  J. 


BdS  Mxld  x:.x  $ksffiBV3ltfO£  O i&Vi  ipif  £ I IS.qCC  SC <1  ; t . 5 | •..  ■ 

3 o :c " ■ x . 2 m at lh-  9 - . - - j ; ..  -■  - . - 

, x xxxxx:  as  xlx  >"  x ••  r jaw  3b  5 jx«r;  j n-  D sr_  /X  bI:ioK 

5 3 sO  . ti a i ' ..  . ivo  ..  Lm 

- 

■ 

- - x c - id  ■ c ■ : • o f ' . :■  - ■ jc  . . 

s tEiit  acted  Iw  bellst  . s 1 r-  - - sd:  1 e rid  ..’  fcp 

-. 

:>i  - - . ...  ... 

- - B ••?  '•  ' . . ' r c.:.  . .-  1 SOOXI  ■ si 

:-iX.  ; : t ' X . , XX  xx  -..  ' iZ)bA 

■ X - ■'  . - ■ I 3 il  ...  3 

-"  tiXtl  . SI  . x X 1 1 ■ to  /O  fi; 

x - ne't  .-  s . z 3 - 61  I asn  9 it  c ....  . . 

a s . ■ 1-  ■ ..  . 

- ;.  . bnild  viac  : l no 

. 

. 

t&niM%X,Sl  X- - Bi  d xx  ■ ;Xx-_  X-S.  ‘ xp  r .... . X . xxs  r :x  ; a ■■■ 

- 

B'H€M  S'd  500  &ll  ■-  f "XSd  XX  £ ...  e x : .:  . * fes  ■ ,X  ..... 

■ "■  s ■ cssp  si  ...  dud  13  .,x-  1 : _ . .....  Is 

ix si  o.j  ale  adds  Is  e \ x.\  a s hi  ■ x. 

sss  tc  oj  ih  - * ...  lid 

- - - * x ; a i sd  ion  & x ) BBd  sdf  ; - -• ..  : ..  : : d.oaD  - - i 

vis:  ps.:  - 


■ - X ..  x , 1 6Di  ‘ ^ x ■ .'  ' ■ , 

' X.  . psi  X-  ■ / ' - 

? ~ ~ - ' oi.SBolii 

X - x , ’ - . O . ■ 

-.-;xx  .X,..x:  a_B  BBd  ' X / . jg  E X-  . ' . . ■ ■ ■- 

- ■ 

x,  . ■ - . vo'  -. 

5?.x  I.BD£ig  t data  'ix.ixx  x mm ai  I - j ■.  .-.  ti  ■.  - : . .■  >g  , 

• B -J  ; £ be  I£  . -:;i.  X fl  . [c;  ; X' 


' 

uorf  v spi-  ifead  . . 

DBBiJ  x ■ p b : rr  roifi  : ■ ■ m i.s  - 

.x  i r_  x;  . .,  j : ". . s ■ • x;  ..  3 

...  ...  I 

' 

ax  a ;o:  - x sf:  me  ii  a s 9%  '.  - .■  - 

. xJ-.i  :•  "'Cl  2 pilitxtdiv  • ' . .x'w  bsqqi.x  ..;x  <:  . • . I 

' ■ ' . ' X 

. 

■.  i ni  s . i a p3  . . £ ba  x.-  tssrnql  t % : ' 

.aB'iD  x 


xx  5 

; oc 


, u : .;  3 io.x. 


6. 


orientation  toward  a high  level  of  achievement  for  the  blind  in  the 
United  States. 

In  the  evening  the  delegates  attended  a dinner  in  their  honor  at  the 
World  Trade  Center  "Windows  on  the  World"  restaurant. 

The  morning  of  Tuesday,  November  30,  a visit  to  two  Garden  City  Long 
Island  day  schools  had  been  scheduled.  The  delegates  were  to  see  the 
integration  of  blind  children  into  a regular  school  for  the  sighted. 
However,  in  deference  to  their  desire  to  see  something  of  New  York 
City  this  part  of  the  program  was  cancelled  with  the  hope  that  a 
similar  visit  could  be  scheduled  later  on  during  the  trip.  After  a 
morning  of  sightseeing  and  lunch  at  a MacDonald's  along  the  way  the  group 
went  to  the  Helen  Keller  National  Center  for  Deaf-blind  Youths  arid 
Adults,  Sands  Point,  Long  Island. 

Mr.  Sam  Gluck,  staff  psychologist,  outlined  the  genesis  of  the  facility. 
It  was  an  outcome  of  stepped-up  Federal  funding  for  the  rehabilitation 
of  the  disabled  and  of  the  recognition  of  the  need  for  a special  center 
for  the  deaf-blind,  who  could  not  be  served  adequately  by  facilities 
designed  for  those  only  deaf  or  only  blind.  He  also  outlined  the 
financing  and  staffing  of  the  Center.  The  present  Center  is  a new 
structure  and  has  been  in  operation  since  the  summer  of  1976.  It 
serves  deaf-blind  persons  from  the  age  of  17  years  and  has  very  minimal 
requirements  regarding  level  of  functioning  at  intake.  Mr.  Zimin 
inquired  whether  starting  at  a much  earlier  age  would  not  be  more 
effective.  Mr.  Gluck  agreed  that  this  was  a problem  but  the  Center's 
mandate  was  to  deal  with  adults.  It  was  the  task  of  schools  to  deal 
with  the  children.  Unfortunately,  judging  by  the  condition  of  many 
of  the  trainees  the  Center  was  receiving,  the  task  was  not  being  tackled 
adequately . 

The  Center  provides  assessment  services — physical,  psychological  and 
pre-vocational — and  training  in  all  areas  needed  by  the  client.  These 
include  audio  and  speech  training,  communication,  self-care  and  home- 
making, social  skills,  physical  training  to  counteract  debility,  manual 
skills  and  pre-vocational  training.  Each  student  has  an  individual 
curriculum  developed  to  fit  his  special  needs.  Medical  and  psychiatric 
services  are  provided  on  the  premises  on  a part-time  basis.  The  Center 
also  has  a research  component  and  is  accumulating  statistical  data  on 
the  deaf-blind  in  the  United  States. 

The  delegates  then  visited  some  of  the  facilities  of  the  center.  These 
included  a model  kitchen  and  bedroom  for  training  in  housekeeping 
skills;  the  gymnasium  where  they  were  shown  special  equipment  used 
for  strengthening  specific  muscle  groups,  particularly  of  the  hands, 
arms,  and  legs;  the  infirmary  and  a lounge  and  kitchen  where  students 
prepare  food  and  entertain  tuests  as  part  of  their  training  in  social 
skills.  Another  feature  of  interest  was  a room  devoted  to  sensory 
training  and  movement.  It  was  equipped  with  a vibrating  floor  linked 
to  audio  equipment.  Dance  movements  can  be  practiced  in  relation  to 
both  auditory  cues  and  the  related  vibrations  perceived  through  the 
feet.  The  audio  equipment  can  also  be  used  alone  for  training  in 
identification  of  significant  auditory  cues. 

The  delegates  also  met  a prominent  deaf-blind  man,  Dr.  Robert  J. 


Smithdas,  who  is  Director  of  Community  Education  at  the  Center.  He 
presented  them  with  autographed  copies  of  his  book  of  poems  City  of 
the  Heart. 


7. 


West  Haven,  Connecticut 

Upon  their  arrival  in  West  Haven  that  evening  the  delegates  were 
interviewed  by  the  local  newspaper.  The  Journal-Courier.  This  was 
followed  by  a dinner  presided  at  by  Dr.  Paul  Eule,  Assistant  Chief  of 
Staff  at  the  Eastern  Blind  Rehabilitation  Center,  West  Haven  Veterans 
Administration  Hospital,  and  attended  by  members  of  the  staff  of  the 
Rehabilitation  Center  and  other  workers  for  the  blind  from  the  state 
of  Connecticut.  During  the  dinner  a citation  was  presented  to  the 
delegates  in  the  name  of  Mr.  G.  Gillespie,  Chief  of  Blind  Rehabilitation, 
V . A. , Washington,  D.C.  Following  the  dinner  there  was  a question  and 
answer  period.  The  questions  asked  of  the  delegates  concerned  mobility, 
employment,  the  position  of  blinded  veterans  in  the  U.S.S.R.  and  schools 
for  the  blind  and  visually  impaired. 

Mr.  Zimin  outlined  the  plans  for  long  cane  instruction  in  the  U.S.S.R. 

The  difference  in  the  level  of  training  of  mobility  instructors  in 
Great  Britain  and  the  United  States  was  pointed  out  to  him.  However, 
there  does  not  seem  to  be  much  interest  in  introducing  the  very  sophis- 
ticated level  of  training  obtained  in  the  United  States  into  the  Soviet 
Union  at  this  time. 

Regarding  employment,  Mr.  Zimin  said  this  was  considered  a key  factor 
in  the  life  of  the  blind  in  the  U.S.S.R.,  because  it  not  only  is 
the  basis  of  material  well-being  but  also  of  moral  and  spiritual  well- 
being. It  enables  a blind  person  to  achieve  a sense  of  personal  worth 
and  of  participation  in  the  life  of  his  society.  It  consolidates 
his  position  in  relation  to  his  family  and  his  community.  And,  if 
a person  likeshis  occupation,  he  works  with  joy.  In  the  Soviet  Union 
the  problem  of  employment  of  the  blind  has  been  completely  resolved, 
and  this  they  consider  their  greatest  achievement.  Any  blind  person 
who  wants  to  work  can  do  so.  The  greatest  number,  54,000,  work  in 
the  enterprises  of  the  Associations  of  the  Blind;  some  18,000  work 
in  various  urban  occupations  in  the  community  at  large  and  6,000  on 
collective  farms.  Blind  persons  have  mastered  over  300  professions. 

More  than  5,000  are  working  in  intellectual  professions  such  as  law, 
history,  economics,  philology,  high  school  teaching  and  teaching  in 
higher  education.  Some  600  blind  persons  are  studying  at  universities. 
One  important  factor  is  that  in  the  U.S.S.R.  blind  persons  who  earn  a 
salary  do  not  loose  the  pension  awarded  to  them  because  of  blindness, 
which  is  not  the  case  in  the  United  States. 

Blinded  veterans  receive  special  care  in  the  Soviet  Union,  as  do  other 
disabled  veterans.  Both  the  state  and  the  Associations  of  the  Blind 
award  them  special  privileges.  They  receive  higher  pensions  than  other 
blind  persons.  They  travel  free  of  charge  on  all  urban  and  long  distance 
public  transportation,  including  railways  and  airlines,  and  this  privil- 
ege includes  not  only  the  blinded  veteran  but  also  his  sighted  companion. 
They  receive  regular  passes  to  rest  homes  and  vacation  facilities  at 
health  resorts.  They  receive  medical  drugs  free  and  are  entitled  to 
reduced  rates  for  community  services  such  as  rent,  electricity  and  water. 

Mr.  Gorelik  answered  questions  regarding  schools.  The  blind  and  most 


8. 


severely  visually  impaired  children  are  educated  in  special  schools, 
which  are  residential.  The  residential  school  is  a choice  based  not 
only  on  educational  grounds  but  also  because  it  spares  the  children 
the  wear  and  tear  of  traveling  daily  to  a school  which  might  be  a 
considerable  distance  from  home.  Care  is  taken  not  to  isolate  the 
children  from  the  community  at  large  and  there  are  many  extra-mural 
activities.  For  instance,  they  participate  in  youth  activities  at 
houses  of  culture  in  the  vicinity  of  the  schools.  In  the  case  of 
children  with  low  vision  the  decision  about  whether  the  child  should 
go  to  a regular  or  a special  school  is  based  largely  on  the  opinion 
of  the  physician. 

The  Eastern  Blind  Rehabilitation  Center  of  the  West  Haven  Veterans 
Administration  Hospital  was  visited  by  the  delegation  on  the  morning 
of  December  1.  The  Rehabilitation  Center  is  one  of  three  such  regional 
facilities  in  the  United  States.  It  provides  services  for  blinded 
veterans  from  the  eastern  part  of  the  U.S.  The  visit  received  local 
television  coverage. 

The  Soviet  delegates  first  saw  the  mobility  unit.  Here  they  again 
encountered  the  Bionic  Cane  and  the  Sonic  Guide.  Mr.  Zimin  still  had 
reservations  regarding  the  acceptability  of  the  amount  of  audible 
output  the  blind  user  was  required  to  handle.  This  was  acknowledged  to 
be  an  apparent  problem  by  the  instructors  but  was  felt  to  be  a judgment 
best  left  to  the  individual  users  to  make.  Mr.  Zimin  also  felt  that 
the  high  cost  of  the  devices — the  Bionic  Cane  costs  $2,000,  the  Path 
Sounder  $1,200  and  the  Sonic  Guide  $l,800--put  them  beyond  the  reach 
of  most  blind  persons.  It  was  explained  that  the  cost  is  not  borne  by 
the  blind  individual.  The  devices  are  provided  on  loan  to  those  who 
find  them  useful,  for  as  long  as  they  are  willing  and  able  to  use  them — 
for  the  rest  of  their  lives  if  need  be.  Mr.  Zimin  inquired  about  the 
deployment  of  the  Bionic  Cane  and  the  number  of  users  connected  with 
the  V . A . Center  was  reported  as  22.  He  was  also  told  that  40  instructors 
have  been  trained.  When  this  seemed  to  strike  him  as  excessive  it  was 
pointed  out  that  the  device  was  very  new  and  its  dissemination  just 
beginning . 

The  rehabilitation  program  was  then  outlined  for  the  delegates.  It 
includes  a final  period  during  which  the  veteran's  family  participates 
to  insure  a carry-over  of  his  training  and  re-orientation  into  his 
daily  life  after  leaving  the  facility.  Mr.  Zimin,  as  usual,  was  also 
interested  in  the  administrative  aspects:  mode  of  referral,  numbers 
served,  area  from  which  patients  were  drawn,  priority  given  to  service- 
related  blindness,  etc. 

The  delegation  was  then  taken  on  a tour  of  some  of  the  units  of  the 
rehabilitation  facility.  Particular  attention  was  paid  to  the  pre- 
vocational  training  center  where  weaving  and  carpentry  are  used  to 
enhance  such  skills  as  manual  dexterity,  ability  to  memorize  pattern 
sequences  and  use  of  tools.  Adaptation  of  tools  for  use  by  the  blind 
is  not  emphasized.  It  is  considered  preferable  for  the  trainees  to 
be  able  to  use  tools  readily  available  to  them  in  their  home  communi- 
ties. Mr.  Zimin  appeared  to  agree  with  this  policy. 

He  expressed  concern,  however,  at  the  absence  of  actual  vocational 
training  and  job  placement  since  the  V.A.  program  stops  with  pre- 
vocational  training.  He  was  told  that  this  was  handled  by  agencies. 


9. 


public  or  private,  in  the  trainees'  home  communities.  He  was  sceptical 
regarding  the  prospects  for  employment  of  blind  persons  in  private 
industry.  He  felt  that  there  could  be  little  motivation  for  a private 
employer  to  engage  blind  workers  when  there  was  a surplus  of  able- 
bodied  sighted  workers  looking  for  employment.  One  of  the  factors 
which  had  helped  in  establishing  full  employment  of  blind  persons 
in  the  Soviet  Union  was  the  shortage  of  labor.  The  situation  was 
quite  different  in  the  United  States  and  he  felt  more  forceful  measures 
were  required. 

A very  sophisticated  research  program  on  auditory  perception  and  local- 
ization is  also  being  conducted  at  the  West  Haven  V.  A.  Hospital.  It 
constitutes  the  scientific  and  theoretical  aspects  of  the  work  on 
orientation  and  mobility  of  the  blind  at  that  facility.  It  was  felt 
that  time  was  too  short  to  attempt  to  show  and  explain  this  to  the 
Soviet  delegates.  They  received  instead  sets  of  papers  reporting  this 
work,  which  they  will  be  able  to  peruse  at  their  leisure. 

The  Soviet  visitors  also  wished  to  see  something  of  New  Haven  and 
Yale  University,  so  they  were  driven  by  places  of  interest  before 
going  to  the  railroad  station  to  go  to  Boston. 

Watertown,  Massachusetts 

A dinner  at  Finnerty's  was  given  by  the  Perkins  School  for  the  Blind 
in  honor  of  the  Soviet  delegates.  Mr.  Zimin  had  the  opportunity  to 
talk  to  Mr.  William  Heisler,  who  is  in  charge  of  the  foreign  students 
program  at  Perkins  and  with  Dr.  John  Eichorn,  Director,  Division  of 
Special  Education,  Boston  College.  The  latter's  presence  was  fortunate 
since  the  scheduled  visit  to  Boston  College  had  to  be  cancelled  to 
allow  the  delegates  time  to  see  Boston.  Boston  College  has  a rather 
close  relationship  with  Perkins  because  the  special  education  students 
at  the  College  get  their  practical  experience  in  teaching  blind  children 
at  Perkins.  The  foreign  students  program,  which  is  related  to  this 
arrangement,  was  of  particular  interest  to  Mr.  Zimin  who  is  currently 
President  of  the  World  Council  for  the  Welfare  of  the  Blind.  There 
are  two  categories  of  foreign  students.  The  first  are  those  who  meet 
the  entrance  requirements  of  Boston  College  and  their  position  is  es- 
sentially the  same  as  that  of  American  special  education  students 
specializing  in  work  with  the  blind.  The  second  category,  who  come 
mainly  from  developing  countries,  attend  Boston  College  as  auditors. 

These  students  do  not  have  to  meet  the  entrance  requirements  and  pay 
no  tuition  fees  to  the  College.  They  attend  classes  and  take  exam- 
inations at  Boston  College  but  do  not  receive  a degree  at  the  end  of 
their  training.  Perkins  contributes  to  the  program  by  providing  free 
room  and  board  and  in  some  cases  part-time  employment  for  these  students. 
They  also  obtain  their  teaching  practice  at  Perkins  and  receive  a 
certificate  from  Perkins  when  they  complete  the  program.  The  second 
category  of  students  is  sent  to  the  United  States  by  authorities  in 
their  own  countries,  generally  the  government,  and  are  selected  by 
these  authorities. 

The  ARTS  (Audio  Response  Time  Sharing  System)  at  the  Protestant  Guild 
for  the  Blind  was  also  described  during  dinner  by  Mr.  Peter  Duran, 
Director,  ARTS  Service  Bureau.  This  is  a system  of  access  over  tele- 
phone lines  to  a central  multi-purpose  computer.  The  terminals  can 


10. 


be  located  in  the  home  or  office.  The  system  serves  blind  students 
and  professionals  in  the  Boston  area.  The  terminals  are  the  size 
of  a typewriter  and  the  cost  to  the  blind  user  is  very  moderate. 

There  was  no  time  the  following  day  to  inspect  the  actual  instal- 
ations.  This  was  particularly  unfortunate  because  this  type  of  computer 
service  has  no  counterpart  in  the  U.S.S.R.  and  there  appeared  to 
be  both  some  scepticism  and  some  confusion  regarding  the  components 
and  structure  of  the  system  in  Mr.  Zimin's  mind. 

The  morning  of  December  2 was  spent  on  a tour  of  Perkins  School  for 
the  Blind.  The  visit  was  covered  by  the  local  press  and  television. 

In  his  introductory  remarks  Mr.  Benjamin  Smith,  Director  of  the  School, 
explained  that,  because  of  the  policy  of  sending  otherwise  unimpaired 
blind  children  to  regular  public  schools  for  the  sighted,  the  students 
now  coming  to  Perkins  are  largely  multiply  handicapped.  Only  a small 
number  of  them  can  be  served  by  the  traditional  school  curriculum.  The 
goal  for  the  others,  among  whom  are  deaf-blind  and  retarded  students, 
is  the  achievement  of  independent  living.  Not  only  the  curriculum  but 
all  living  arrangements  are  geared  towards  this  end  in  the  new  sections 
of  the  school.  A gradual  change  over  to  this  system,  based  on  living 
in  small  groups  in  cottages,  is  in  progress.  The  children  come  to 
the  school  at  varying  levels  of  functioning,  the  minimum  requirement 
being  toilet  training  and  an  ability  to  feed  oneself.  They  gradually 
learn  to  take  care  of  themselves.  Breakfast  and  supper  are  prepared 
in  the  residences,  as  far  as  possible,  by  the  students  themselves. 

Even  scholastic  subjects  such  as  reading  and  arithmetic  are  taught 
in  relation  to  the  needs  of  everyday  life.  For  example,  arithmetic 
is  related  to  making  purchases  and  handling  a bank  account. 

The  delegates  visited  the  deaf-blind  section  and  talked  with  the 
director.  Dr.  Maurice  Tretakoff.  Deaf-blind  children  are  admitted 
at  the  age  of  7 and  stay,  sometime,  until  they  are  25.  The  depart- 
ment is  in  transition  from  the  traditional  classroom  approach  to  the 
cottage  system.  The  group  visited  one  of  the  classrooms,  where  small 
groups  of  children  worked  with  several  teachers.  Replying  to  Mr. 

Zimin's  questions  regarding  the  children  they  had  seen,  Dr.  Tretakoff 
told  the  group  that  these  children  had  been  at  Perkins  4 to  6 years. 

When  they  arrived  they  were  functioning  at  a very  rudimentary  level, 
with  very  little  ability  to  communicate.  At  present  they  were  function- 
ing at  roughly  first  or  second  grade  level  and  were  expected  to  reach 
a maximum  of  third  or  fourth  grade  level  eventually.  To  Mr.  Zimin's 
comment  on  the  absence  of  speech,  which  is  considered  very  important 
by  Soviet  teachers.  Dr.  Tretakoff  replied  that  it  was  extremely  difficult 
for  the  children  to  learn  and  therefore  hand  communication  was  given 
priority  as  it  was  easier  and  allowed  better  communication  and  concept 
formation . 

The  delegates  were  given  information  on  the  administration  of  the 
school:  budget,  sources  of  funding,  emrollment,  proportion  of  multiply 
handicapped  students  and  tuition,  which  is  higher  for  the  deaf-blind 
and  is  paid  by  the  Departments  of  Education  in  the  children's  home 
states.  It  is  these  authorities  which  refer  the  children  to  Perkins 
and  occasionally  make  the  decision  to  send  a singly  impaired  blind 
child  there  despite  the  general  policy  on  integrated  schooling. 

The  group  then  visited  several  other  Perkins  facilities:  a large 


11. 


cottage  unit  for  multiply  handicapped  students;  the  physical  education 
department  which  includes  a large  swimming  pool,  two  gymnasiums  and 
a bowling  alley;  the  section  where  typing  and  dictaphone  operation 
is  taught;  they  were  also  shown  a snack  bar  which  is  used  for  training 
blind  students  in  the  operation  of  a concession.  It  is  used  as  a 
snack  bar  by  other  students  and  staff,  thus  providing  a real  life 
training  situation.  Owing  to  a shortage  of  time,  no  regular  classrooms 
were  visited.  For  the  same  reason  only  one  member  of  the  delegation, 

Mr.  Gorelik,  made  the  scheduled  side  trip  to  visit  Dr.  Ray  Kurzweil  and 
see  a demonstration  of  the  Kurzweil  reading  machine,  which  generates 
a spoken  output. 

A demonstration  of  reading  with  the  Optacon  at  various  levels  of 
proficiency  was  given  at  Perkins.  A student  in  training  read  with 
the  aid  of  an  automatic  tracking  device  which  guides  the  scanner  along 
the  lines  at  an  adjustable  speed.  Two  expert  users  demonstrated 
reading  with  the  scanner  hand  held  and  guided  by  the  skill  of  the 
user  alone.  Mr.  Zimin  again  commented  on  the  high  cost  of  the  Optacon 
($2,800)  and  of  the  various  attachments  (the  automatic  tracking  device 
costs  $3,000).  However,  this  demonstration  did  convince  him  of  the 
Optacon’ s effectiveness  as  a reading  machine.  In  talking  with  the 
representative  from  Telesensory  Systems,  Inc.,  the  Optacon' s producer, 
he  expressed  an  interest  in  purchasing  an  Optacon  and  a set  of  all 
the  training  attachments  by  the  All-Russia  Association  of  the  Blind 
and  made  arrangements  to  pursue  the  matter  upon  his  return  to  the 
U.S.S.R.  He  firmly  declined,  however,  the  services  of  an  instructor, 
usually  a part  of  the  transaction.  There  are  already  Optacons  in 
Poland,  Romania  and  Yugoslavia  but  none  in  the  Soviet  Union. 

After  lunch  the  delegates  were  taken  on  a brief  tour  of  Boston.  This 
necessitated  cancellation  of  their  visit  to  Boston  College  since  they 
were  leaving  for  Jackson,  Mississippi  that  afternoon. 

Jackson,  Mississippi 

Upon  their  arrival  in  Jackson  that  evening  the  delegates  were  met 
by  representatives  of  the  Mississippi  Commission  for  the  Blind,  National 
Industries  for  the  Blind  and  the  Mississippi  Department  of  Agriculture 
and  Industry..  They  were  later  entertained  by  their  hosts  in  Jackson 
at  an  informal  reception  at  their  hotel.  The  following  day,  December  3, 
the  delegates  visited  two  workshops  for  the  blind,  Royal  Maid  Industries 
and  Mississippi  Industries  for  the  Blind,  and  the  Addie  McBryde  Rehabili- 
tation Center.  They  attended  a luncheon  at  the  home  of  Mr.  Aston  Coving- 
ton, one  of  the  board  members  of  Royal  Maid  Industries.  In  the  evening 
they  attended  a recaption  and  a barbecue  dinner  at  Royal  Maid.  At 
dinner  the  delegates  received  plaques  commemorating  their  visit.  The 
presence  of  the  delegates  in  Jackson  received  extensive  attention  in 
the  local  press. 

As  they  did  all  along  the  way,  the  delegates  wanted  to  do  some  sight- 
seeing in  Jackson.  They  were  taken  on  a visit  to  the  Governor's  Mansion, 
where  they  were  interviewed  on  local  television,  and  to  the  State  Capitol. 
At  the  Capitol  they  saw  a lunch  counter  operated  by  a blind  concessionaire. 
They  had  seen  such  installations  as  training  facilities  but  this  was 
the  first  time  they  encountered  one  that  was  actually  serving  the  public. 

On  their  tour  of  the  Addie  McBryde  Rehabilitation  Center,  in  addition  to 


12. 


the  rehabilitation  facilities  with  which  they  were  now  becoming  famil- 
iar, the  delegates  saw  the  ophthalmological  clinic.  This  facility, 
although  located  at  the  Center,  is  part  of  the  University  Hospital. 
Unlike  the  low  vision  clinic  they  had  seen  at  the  New  York  Lighthouse, 
it  is  a medical  facility  providing  diagnostic  and  therapeutic  services, 
not  an  optometric  center. 

The  Soviet  delegates  were  taken  on  extensive  tours  of  the  production 
plants  of  Mississippi  Industries  for  the  Blind  and  Royal  Maid  Industries 
and  examined  operations  in  detail.  At  Royal  Maid  they  were  also  shown 
the  pre-vocational  training  center  operated  by  National  Industries 
for  the  Blind  (NIB) . 

Later  the  delegates  met  in  Mr.  John  Granger's  office  with  a group 
which  in  addition  to  Mr.  Granger,  Vice  President-General  Manager, 

Royal  Maid,  Inc.,  included  Mr.  Noel  Price,  Executive  Vice  President, 

NIB,  and  Mr.  Harold  Richterman,  Director  of  Rehabilitation  Services 
Division,  NIB.  The  structure  and  functions  of  National  Industries 
for  the  Blind  was  described  for  them.  It  was  explained  that  the  basic 
criterion  for  NIB  membership  and  for  the  granting  of  government  con- 
tracts to  workshops  for  the  blind  was  that  at  least  75%  of  the  man- 
hours involved  in  actual  production  at  the  workshop  was  work  done  by 
blind  persons.  They  also  explained  that  while  88  workshops  throughout 
the  United  States  were  members  of  NIB,  Royal  Maid  Industries  was  the 
only  one  which  was  actually  owned  by  NIB.  It  therefore  served  as  a 
model  and  could  be  used  for  demonstration  purposes.  In  the  case  of 
the  other  workshops  NIB  could  advise,  offer  the  services  of  experts 
and  financial  support  for  improvements,  but  the  management  of  these 
workshops  were  free  to  accept  or  reject  their  assistance. 

There  was  a discussion  of  the  similarities  and  differences  between 
the  NIB  workshops  in  the  United  States  and  the  enterprises  of  associ- 
ations of  the  blind  in  the  Soviet  Union.  A basic  difference  is  that 
the  Soviet  enterprises  employ  the  majority  of  the  working  blind  while 
only  a small  minority  (about  5,000  out  of  34,000)  are  employed  by  the 
workshops . 

Also  employment  in  NIB  workshops  is  a last  resort,  only  those  no: 
capable  of  work  in  open  industry  are  encouraged  to  work  there.  The 
goal  of  vocational  rehabilitation  in  the  U.S.  is  mainstreaming  when- 
ever possible.  The  Soviet  delegates  knew  of  these  facts  but  they  did 
not  seem  to  be  always  taken  into  consideration  in  the  discussion. 

Mr.  Zimin  characterized  the  two  plants  he  had  inspected  as  well 
engineered  from  the  point  of  view  of  production.  The  subdivision 
of  tasks  and  the  work  flow  showed  a high  degree  of  professionalism. 
However,  he  found  the  level  of  production  'primitive".  The  products 
themselves  were  very  simple:  brooms,  mops,  candles,  simple  stitched 
articles  such  as  laundry  bags.  Also  working  conditions  were  often 
injurious:  excessively  heavy  tasks,  gas  fumes  and  excessive  noise, 

Mr.  Zimin  said..  In  the  Soviet  Union  both  the  production  of  very 
simple  articles,  which  represents  a poor  utilization  of  the  blind  per- 
sons's productive  capacities,  and  injurious  working  conditions  were 
curtailed  long  ago.  In  the  U.S.S.R.much  work  has  been  done  to  identify 
work  which  can  be  performed  by  blind  persons  and  to  develop  devices 
that  allow  them  to  perform  such  tasks  efficiently  and  safely.  There 
are  more  than  2,000  such  devices  which  come  under  the  rubric  of  indus- 


. 


13. 


trial  typhlotechnology . These  efforts,  combined  with  the  high  demand 
for  labor  which  exists  in  the  Soviet  Union,  have  resulted  in  a situation 
where  not  only  is  there  ample  work  for  blind  persons  in  the  enterprises 
of  the  association  of  the  blind  but  it  is  also  easier  for  them  to 
obtain  work  in  the  economy  at  large.  The  enterprises  of  the  All-Russia 
Association  of  the  Blind  and  of  the  associations  in  other  republics 
are  now  at  a high  technological  level  and  operate  at  a considerable 
profit.  For  instance  they  manufacture  all  the  electrical  wiring  harnes- 
ses for  the  "Moskva"  automobile  produced  by  the  state  auto  industry. 

They  also  produce  minor  auto  parts  and  electronic  equipment  parts  for 
the  state  electronic  industry.  The  NIB  representatives  commented  that 
they  were  unable  to  get  any  entrance  into  major  U.S.  industries.  Mr. 
Zimin  replied  that  in  the  Soviet  Union  the  present  situation  did  not 
come  into  being  overnight  either.  It  had  taken  a lot  of  persevering 
effort  to  establish  the  present  position  of  the  enterprises  of  the 
blind . 

Later  Mr.  Zimin  and  Mr.  Price  discussed  plans  for  a visit  to  the  Soviet 
Union  by  representatives  of  National  Industries  for  the  Blind.  They 
are  to  visit  the  enterprises  of  the  associations  of  the  blind  and 
observe  their  methods  of  work  and  management.  In  all  probability,  an 
NIB  delegation  of  four  persons,  headed  by  Mr.  Price,  will  visit  the 
U.S.S.R.  toward  the  end  of  1977  or  early  in  1978. 

Again  at  the  request  of  the  delegates  an  addition  was  made  to  the 
itinerary.  On  the  morning  of  December  4,  the  group  was  taken  to 
Vicksburg  by  courtesy  of  the  Mississippi  Department  of  Agriculture 
and  Industry.  They  were  shown  the  Mississippi  river  and  the  historical 
park  and  museum.  The  group  then  left  for  Williamsburg. 

Williamsburg,  Virginia 

In  Williamsburg,  a dinner  was  given  by  the  Virginia  Commission  for 
the  Blind  at  which  the  work  of  the  Commission  was  discussed.  The 
delegates  were  once  again  reminded  of  the  complexity  of  the  American 
situation  when  discussing  the  two  workshops  operated  by  the  Commission. 
They  mentioned  the  board  of  directors  which  presumably  governed  them 
and  were  told  that  there  was  none — the  workshops  were  governed  by 
state-appointed  officials.  They  also  showed  at  this  point  a tendency 
to  think  of  the  workshops  as  the  central  function  rather  than  a 
minor  task  among  the  many  which  comprise  the  work  of  authorities  such 
as  the  Commission.  This  became  apparent  when  Mr.  Zimin  went  through 
the  very  systematic  questions  about  funding,  personnel  and  numbers  served 
which  he  asked  wherever  he  went.  The  number  of  blind  persons  employed 
in  the  workshops  was  125,  the  personnel  of  the  Commission  300.  It  was 
his  surprise  at  the  apparent  disproportion  which  alerted  the  Americans 
to  the  fact  that  there  was  a major  misunderstanding  regarding  the 
relative  importance  of  the  Commission's  tasks  and  the  services  it  pro- 
vides blind  people  in  the  state.  Mr.  William  Coppage  pointed  out  that 
not  only  did  the  Commission  provide  services  in  areas  other  than  employ- 
ment— such  as  education  and  personal  rehabilitation — but  even  where 
employment  was  concerned,  the  majority  of  blind  persons  who  were  pro- 
vided vocational  rehabilitation  services  did  not  become  employees  of 
the  workshops.  Most  blind  persons  found  work  in  the  community  at  large, 
not  in  sheltered  employment  and  this  was  in  accordance  with  the  policy 
of  mainstreaming  which  is  practiced  in  the  United  States. 


■ ' y 


14. 


The  morning  of  December  5 was  spent  sightseeing  in  Historic  Williams- 
burg, to  the  great  satisfaction  of  the  delegates.  They  were  at  last 
getting  some  of  the  "cultural  component"  which  they  had  felt  was  mis- 
sing from  the  program. 

On  the  way  to  the  airport  the  delegates  were  jointed  by  an  associate 
of  Mr.  Robert  P.  Bynum,  Associate  Commissioner  for  Program  Operations, 
Social  Security  Administration.  Both  he  and  Mr.  Bynum  had  met  Mr. 
Jamakochian  when  visiting  the  Soviet  Union  and  he  took  this  opportunity 
to  tell  Mr.  Jamakochian  about  the  new  program  of  income  supplement 
for  blind  and  disabled  persons.  He  also  arranged  for  a publication 
describing  the  program  to  be  given  to  Mr.  Jamakochian  in  Washington. 

Washington,  D.  C. 

The  delegates  spent  the  evening  of  December  5 as  guests  of  Mr.  Robert 
P . Bynum . 

The  delegation  was  scheduled  to  spend  the  morning  of  December  6 at 
the  National  Eye  Institute.  At  their  request  a detour  was  made  to 
show  them  the  Capitol  before  proceeding  to  Bethesda.  Although  no 
one  in  the  delegation  was  directly  involved  in  medical  work,  the  All- 
Russia  and  other  associations  of  the  blind  in  the  Soviet  Union  take 
considerable  interest  in  ophthalmology.  This  interest  extends  to  the 
construction  of  ophthalmological  hospitals:  one  in  Moscow,  financed 
by  the  All-Russia  Association  of  the  Blind  and  another  now  under  con- 
struction in  Tbilisi  financed  by  the  Georgian  Association  of  the  Blind. 
Mr.  Goglidze  said  the  Tbilisi  hospital  will  have  300  beds,  a polyclinic 
and  a staff  of  500.  He  explained  that  while  an  Association  of  the 
Blind  may  finance  the  construction  of  a facility  such  as  a hospital 
or  school  it  then  turns  it  over  to  the  appropriate  governmental  depart- 
ment for  operation. 

Dr.  Carl  Kupfer,  Director  of  the  National  Eye  Institute  (NEI) , wel- 
comed the  delegation.  He  briefly  described  the  N.E.I.  and  its 
activities  and  each  delegate  received  an  information  folder  on  the 
Institute  and  current  research.  The  delegates  were  then  taken  to  see 
a sampling  of  the  research  being  carried  out  at  the  Institute  itself 
(research  is  also  carried  out  at  other  institutions  in  the  United 
States  and  abroad  under  N.E.I.  funding).  Only  three  out  of  five 
research  projects  on  the  agenda  were  shown,  due  to  lack  of  time,  but 
the  delegates  were  given  abstracts  on  all  five.  Among  those  seen  was 
the  Q-switched  Laser  for  the  surgical  treatment  of  glaucoma.  This 
research  is  parallel  to  the  work  of  Professor  M.  M.  Krasnov,  Director 
of  the  State  Institute  of  Ophthalmology  in  Moscow,  who  pioneered  this 
line  of  research.  Mr.  Zimin  was  familiar  with  Professor  Krasnov  and  his 
work.  He  was  also  able  to  give  Dr.  Jin  H.  Kinoshita,  Chief  of  Labora- 
tory Research,  N.E.I.,  some  information  on  current  work  on  cataracts 
in  the  Soviet  Union. 

At  the  luncheon  given  by  N.E.I.  at  Stone  House,  the  National  Institutes 
of  Health  conference  center,  Mr.  Zimin  spoke  of  the  three  tracks  along 
which  the  struggle  against  blindness  should  proceed. 

The  first  is  prevention.  This  should  be  a cooperative  effort  of  those 
engaged  in  social  services  and  of  organizations  working  for  the  welfare 


15. 


of  the  blind  with  medical  personnel.  The  second  is  medical.  It 
involves  the  treatment  of  blindness  and  of  diseases  which  cause  blind- 
ness and  it  is  the  domain  of  medicine  alone.  The  third  is  rehabilita- 
tion of  those  who  have  lost  their  vision,  cases  of  irreversible  blind- 
ness. The  last  is  the  task  of  those  who  provide  social  services  to 
the  blind.  By  combining  all  the  efforts  of  those  who  provide  social 
services  and  those  who  provide  medical  care,  great  results  could  be 
achieved  and  there  might  be  a sharp  reduction  in  blindness,  if  not  its 
complete  elimination. 

Mr.  Zimin  had  previously  expressed  an  interest  in  research  on  artifi- 
cial vision.  Some  information  on  this  subject  was  elicited  from  some 
of  the  N.E.I.  staff  attending  the  luncheon. 

It  was  learned  that  the  research  of  Dr.  Dobelle,  Director  of  the 
Division  of  Artificial  Organs,  College  of  Physicians  and  Surgeons, 
Columbia  University,  was  not  receiving  N.E.I.  support.  However, 
the  Institute  was  conducting  some  research  of  its  own  on  the  long 
term  effects  of  brain  implants  and  on  the  Tactile  Vision  Substitution 
System  (TVSS) . The  TVSS,  developed  at  the  Smith-Kettlewell  Institute 
of  Visual  Sciences  in  San  Francisco,  does  not  involve  a brain  implant. 
It  utilizes  the  skin  for  the  presentation  of  quasi-visual  tactile 
replicas  of  visual  images  picked  up  with  a miniaturized  TV  camera. 

After  lunch  Mr.  Gorelik  was  taken  to  visit  the  Sharpe  Health  School. 
This  is  a public  school  which  serves  blind  children  as  well  as  child- 
ren with  other  handicaps.  It  could  not  be  considered  an  example  of 
integrated  schooling  of  the  blind  in  the  usual  sense,  however,  it  is 
not  a school  exclusively  for  the  blind  and  visually  impaired.  Also 
the  goal  of  the  school  is  to  mainstream  the  children  into  regular 
public  schools  whenever  possible  so  it  is  in  that  sense  part  of  the 
program  for  integration  of  blind  children  into  the  regular  school 
system . 

The  rest  of  the  group  went  to  the  Library  of  Congress  Division  for 
the  Blind  and  Physically  Handicapped.  Mr.  Frank  Kurt  Cylke,  Chief 
of  the  Division,  described  the  program  for  the  blind.  Mr.  Zimin  was 
very  interested  in  both  administrative  aspects--budget , production 
and  distribution--and  technological  aspects — speed  of  the  tapes  and 
discs,  playback  equipment  and  quality  control.  The  delegates  were 
told  that  most  of  the  recording  was  done  by  the  American  Printing 
House  for  the  Blind  and  the  American  Foundation  for  the  Blind, 
with  AFB  producing  records  only.  A very  few  urgently  needed  titles 
were  recorded  on  the  premises  and  very  occasionally  commercial  record- 
ing firms  were  used.  The  production  of  braille  sheet  music  is  done 
at  the  Division  but  braille  books  are  produced  at  the  American  Printing 
house  for  the  Blind  and  at  Clovernook  Printing  House  for  the  Blind. 

Both  braille  and  recorded  materials  are  distributed  through  participat- 
ing regional  libraries.  The  delegates  ascertained,  and  privately 
expressed  some  surprise,  that  titles  were  selected  by  a group  of 
specialists.  In  the  U.S.S.R.  this  task  is  apparently  performed  by  a 
soviet  of  the  organization  of  the  blind.  In  actual  fact  there  is  an 
Ad  Hoc  Committee  of  blind  readers  who  usually  recommend  areas  of 
interest  and  priority  and  occasionally  specific  titles,  but  its 
existence  was  not  mentioned  during  the  tour.  The  delegates  were  taken 
on  a tour  of  the  Division  and  saw  some  of  the  operations  which  had 


16  . 


been  discussed  such  as  the  quality  control  department,  the  storage 
and  distribution  section,  where  they  saw  the  containers  used  to  mail 
the  talking  books,  and  the  braille  music  department. 

The  group  then  went  on  to  a visit  to  the  National  Gallery.  In  the 
evening  an  interview  with  Mr.  Zimin  was  recorded  for  Radio  Reading 
Service,  a radio  network  for  the  blind.  The  system  of  special  broad- 
casting for  the  blind  was  described  to  him  on  that  occasion. 

On  the  morning  of  December  7,  the  delegates  visited  the  National  Air 
and  Space  Museum  of  the  Smithsonian  Institution.  They  were  met 
by  Mr.  Harold  Snider,  Coordinator  of  Programs  for  the  Handicapped, 
and  members  of  his  staff.  Time  was  extremely  short  as  a visit  to 
the  White  House  had  been  arranged  at  the  delegates'  request  for  the 
same  morning.  Mr.  Snider  outlined  the  work  of  his  department  very 
briefly.  He  explained  that  the  program  was  being  developed  on  the 
basis  of  suggestions  from  blind  persons  and  in  consultation  with 
organizations  of  the  blind.  He  also  showed  the  delegates  thermoform 
sheets  with  embossed  drawings  and  braille  descriptions  of  some  of  the 
exhibits . 

Mr.  Kenneth  Jernigan,  President  of  the  National  Federation  of  the  Blind 
was  at  the  Museum  to  confer  with  Mr.  Snider  on  program  development  and 
met  with  the  delegates.  Although  time  was  extremely  short,  this  did 
provide  the  opportunity  for  him  to  meet  the  visitors  in  person. 


The  delegates  were  then  taken  on  a tour  of  the  museum.  A number  of 
the  exhibits  could  be  examined  tactually  by  blind  visitors.  Mr. 
Goglidze,  who  had  been  a pilot,  came  across  two  airplanes  he  had  flown 
in  World  War  II.  Mr.  Zimin  regretted  the  visit  had  to  be  so  brief. 

He  said  the  museum  was  unique.  He  knew  of  no  other  museum  in  the 
world  which  had  a similar  program  for  the  blind.  (This  is  true  in 
the  sense  that  an  attempt  is  being  made  to  bring  as  much  of  the  entire 
Air  and  Space  Museum  as  possible  within  reach  of  blind  persons  by 
various  means.  A number  of  museums  have  programs  or  special  exhibi- 
tions for  the  blind  and  the  Mary  Duke  Biddle  Gallery  is  specifically 
for  the  blind.)  He  wondered  whether  with  the  generous  budget  at 
their  disposal  it  would  not  be  possible  to  provide  small  scale  models 
of  the  exhibits  for  the  blind  to  examine  tactually.  This  would  give 
them  a much  more  accurate  impression  than  embossed  drawings.  Mr.  Snider 
said  they  were  trying  to  find  a way  of  doing  this.  Unfortuantely , 
the  general  public  tended  to  destroy  small  models,  so  they  could  not 
be  placed  in  the  exhibition  halls. 

The  group  then  visited  the  White  House.  The  visit  had  been  arranged 
at  the  last  minute,  although  not  all  the  rooms  usually  shown  could 
be  entered  as  redecoration  for  the  Christmas  season  was  in  progress. 

Upon  returning  to  the  hotel,  the  delegates  were  interviewed  by  the 
press.  The  Voice  of  America  and  Radio  Free  Eurpoe  were  present  al- 
though, at  the  express  request  of  the  delegates,  they  had  not  been 
contacted  by  the  organizers  of  the  tour.  The  interview,  however, 
was  conducted  amicably  by  both  sides. 

The  last  official  function  of  the  tour  was  a luncheon  given  by  the 


Washington  office  of  the  American  Foundation  for  the  Blind. 
Comments 


One  very  strong  impression  of  the  author  grew  as  the  tour  progressed 
and  the  delegates  not  only  observed  the  work  for  the  blind  in  the 
U.S.  but  also  spoke  of  conditions  in  the  U.S.S.R.  It  was  the  apparent 
contrast  between  how  much  is  done  by  the  blind  in  the  U.S.S.R.  as 
opposed  to  how  much  is  done  for  the  blind  in  the  U.S.  This  seems  a 
matter  not  only  of  the  sighted  majority  being  willing  to  defer  to  the 
blind  where  the  interests  of  the  blind  are  at  stake.  It  is  also  a 
question  of  the  blind  themselves  being  willing  and  able  to  engage 
in  collective  action  on  their  own  behalf.  In  a private  conversation 
with  Mr.  Zimin,  I referred  to  the  fact  that  the  blind  in  the  U.S.S.R. 
seemed  to  have  much  more  control  over  their  own  fate  and  asked  if  he 
could  comment  as  to  the  causes  and  the  possibility  of  a similar  develop- 
ment in  the  United  States.  He  declined  to  do  so,  saying  that  it  was 
a complicated  matter  related  to  differences  in  the  political  and  econ- 
omic systems  of  the  two  countries.  This  is  undoubtedly  true.  It  may 
also  be  true  that  while  the  blind  as  a group  have  more  control  over 
their  own  fate  in  the  U.S.S.R.,  the  individual  blind  person,  at  least 
the  successful  individual  blind  person,  the  the  U.S.  may  feel  he  has 
more  freedom  and  autonomy  under  conditions  in  which  he  is  not  involved 
in  any  collective  organization  such  as  the  All-Russia  Association  of 
the  Blind. 

However,  the  question  that  should  perhaps  be  asked  and  examined  in 
depth  is  whether  there  is  not  a middle  ground  that  could  be  achieved 
in  this  country.  The  American  way  of  life,  to  say  the  least,  is  no 
less  committed  to  grass  roots  democracy  than  Soviet  ideology  is. 

Perhaps  consumerism  in  this  country  could  pick  up  some  useful  ideas 
from  the  Soviet  experience.  There  are  three  major  organizations  of 
the  blind  in  the  United  States,  the  American  Council  of  the  Blind, 
the  National  Federation  of  the  Blind  and  the  Blinded  Veterans 
Association.  These  are  not  representative  of  the  blind  in  as  global 
a sense  as  the  Soviet  associations,  which  are  both  all-inclusive  and 
monopolistic;  probably  one  would  not  even  wish  them  to  be  so.  They 
do  represent,  however,  sizeable  portions  of  the  blind  population. 

There  should  be  a serious  examination  of  ways  and  means  by  which  they 
could  be  given  an  effective  voice  in  the  field  of  work  for  the  blind. 

It  may  also  be  useful  to  look  at  the  position  of  the  blind  in  Spain 
in  this  connection.  In  a political  and  economic  context  which  differs 
from  both  the  U.S.  and  the  U.S.S.R.,  the  blind  in  Spain  have  a very 
powerful  organization.  This  appears  to  be  due  to  a strong  financial 
base  provided  by  a national  lottery  which  is  controlled  by  the  blind 
themselves.  The  two  questions  one  would  wish  to  keep  to  the  fore  in 
such  comparative  studies  are  how  is  power  obtained  and  how  is  it  used. 
Our  ultimate  concern  is  with  the  autonomy  and  well  being  of  the  indivi- 
dual. Greater  independence  for  the  handicapped  is  a matter  of  present 
concern  as  witnesses  by  the  topic  of  this  year's  White  House  Conference 
on  the  Handicapped.  It  would  be  ironic  to  exchange  the  handicapped 
person's  dependence  on  existing  institutions  for  an  equal  or  greater 
dependence  on  organizations  of  their  peers.  An  examination  of  how 
such  organizations  function  in  those  countries  where  they  do  wield 
considerable  power  would  therefore  be  very  valuable.  It  could  provide 


18  . 


information  not  only  on  means  of  providing  power  to  such  groups  but 
also  on  both  the  advantages  and  the  risks  involved  in  doing  so. 

In  discussing  what  he  had  seen  in  the  United  States  Mr.  Zimin  said 
he  felt  that  in  the  areas  of  education  and  employment  his  country 
was  probably  ahead  of  the  United  States.  The  United  States  had  made 
a great  deal  more  progress  in  sensory  aids  for  the  compension  of 
blindness  and  he  hoped  this  work  would  be  pursued  in  both  countries. 

He  was  also  impressed  by  what  he  had  seen  in  the  area  of  personal 
rehabilitation  and  culture  for  the  blind.  It  may  be  useful  to  take 
these  statements  one  by  one  for  the  purpose  of  discussing  the  tour 
and  possible  implications  for  the  future. 

As  far  as  education  is  concerned,  it  should  be  pointed  out  that  the 
delegates  did  not  get  a comprehensive  look  at  this  area  of  work  in 
the  United  States.  It  may  be  useful  in  the  future  to  have  a more 
specialized  exchange  of  experts  in  this  field.  Such  an  exchange 
should  involve  persons  in  special  education  in  the  United  States  and 
in  the  Institutes  of  Defectology  which  are  research  and  educational 
institutions  within  the  Academies  of  Sciences  in  the  Soviet  Union 
roughly  corresponding  to  Departments  of  Special  Education  at  American 
Universities.  It  should  also  include  visits  to  the  Instructional 
Materials  Centers  at  Michigan  State  University  in  Lansing,  and  at 
the  American  Printing  House  for  the  Blind  in  Louisville,  Kentucky. 

These  facilities  were  not  even  mentioned  during  this  tour.  Perkins, 
because  of  its  shift  towards  the  education  of  the  multiply  handicapped, 
presented  a very  incomplete  view  of  education  of  the  blind  in  the 
United  States.  It  is  unfortunate  in  this  regard  that  the  visit  to 
the  day  schools  had  to  be  omitted. 

Employment  may  be  a very  useful  area  in  which  to  pursue  an  exchange 
of  information.  A visit  to  the  Soviet  Union  by  representatives  of 
National  Industries  for  the  Blind  is  being  planned.  There  is  a problem 
here,  however.  Because  of  the  policy  of  mainstreaming  disabled  persons, 
including  the  blind,  into  jobs  in  the  community,  only  a small  minority 
blind  persons  who  are  not  considered  employable  in  open  industry  find 
their  way  into  the  workshops  for  the  blind.  Because  of  this  difference 
between  the  conditions  in  the  United  States  and  the  Soviet  Union, 
the  benefits  from  such  a trip  will  be  very  limited  unless  a way  is 
found  to  transfer  the  knowledge  thus  gained  beyond  the  limits  of  N.I.B. 
One  possibility  would  be  to  involve  persons  connected  with  the  Affirma- 
tive Action  Program.  For  example,  a new  project  at  the  Columbia  Univer- 
sity School  of  Social  Work  headed  by  Dr.  Frederick  A.  Hill  is  concerned 
with  the  employment  of  disabled  persons.  Perhaps  the  information 
brought  back  by  the  N.I.B.  representatives  could  be  profitably  shared 
with  persons  involved  in  such  a program. 

Another  possibility  would  be  to  use  the  organized  blind  as  a force 
for  the  diffusion  of  industrial  typhlotechnology . This  sort  of  work 
is  actually  being  done  in  one  specialized  area,  the  work  of  computer 
programmers  and  systems  analysts,  by  Visually  Impaired  Data  Processors 
International  (VIDPI) . Perhaps  mechanisms  and  funding  could  be  found 
to  assist  one  or  more  of  the  organizations  of  the  blind  to  deploy 
this  kind  of  effort  on  a broader  scale.  It  could  also  be  a first 
step  in  giving  such  an  organization  a more  active  and  authoritative 
role  in  the  field  of  work  for  the  blind. 


■ 

■ 


/ 

■ 


19. 


Mr.  Zimin  expressed  great  interest  in  the  sophisticated  sensory 
aids  he  saw  on  his  visit.  However,  he  also  had  great  reservations 
regarding  most  of  them  and  his  attitude  seemed  very  conservative  as 
far  as  their  introduction  into  general  use  is  concerned. 

Although  one  tangible  result  of  his  trip  may  be  the  introduction  of 
the  Optacon  into  the  Soviet  Union,  a similar  development  in  the  case 
of  electronic  mobility  aids  seems  unlikely  in  the  near  future.  Quite 
apart  from  his  reservations  regarding  their  usefullness--and  it  should 
be  noted  that  he  reversed  a similar  first  impression  regarding  the 
Optacon — there  is  a good  reason  why  their  introduction  in  the  Soviet 
Union  should  not  be  attempted  at  this  time.  Long  cane  mobility  is 
only  now  about  to  be  introduced  in  the  Soviet  Union.  The  electronic 
mobility  devices  now  available  all  pre-suppose  the  use  of  the  long 
cane.  The  Path  Sounder  and  the  Sonic  Guide  are  intended  for  use  in 
conjunction  with  the  long  cane  and  the  Bionic  Cane  incorporates  it. 

It  would  be  obviously  premature  to  consider  their  introduction  before 
long  cane  mobility  has  been  established  as  the  basic  mode  of  travel  for 
blind  persons.  Only  after  this  has  been  achieved  would  considerations 
of  cost  and  the  acceptability  of  the  audible  output  of  these  instruments 
become  other  than  academic  questions.  It  might  also  be  mentioned 
parenthetically  that  there  is  an  ultrasonic  device  closely  akin  to  the 
Path  Sounder,  in  the  U.S.S.R.  called  the  Orientir . 

Concerning  personal  rehabilitation,  in  the  report  on  his  trip  to  the 
Soviet  Union,  Mr.  Apple  mentions  that  there  are  only  two  rehabilitation 
centers  in  the  U.S.S.R.  It  would  seem  that  while  vocational  rehabili- 
tation has  been  very  much  emphasized,  aspects  of  personal  rehabilita- 
tion such  as  self-care  and  daily  living  skills  have  not.  Perhaps 
the  American  tour  of  the  Soviet  experts  will  contribute  to  broadening 
the  scope  of  rehabilitation  in  the  Soviet  Union. 

One  last  point  of  comparison  between  the  United  States  and  the 
Soviet  Union  may  be  of  interest.  Very  roughly  speaking  the  prevalence 
of  blindness  in  the  U.S.S.R.  seems  to  be  slightly  higher  than  half  of 
that  in  the  United  States  (267,000  blind  in  a population  of  250 
million  in  the  U.S.S.R.  and  486,550  blind  in  a population  of  216 
million  in  the  U.S.A.) . A demographic  comparison  would  interest  bio- 
statisticians and  epidemiologists.  Part  of  the  difference  must  be  an 
artifact  of  a difference  in  definition.  The  upper  limit  in  the  Soviet 
Union  in  .08  visual  acuity  and  in  the  United  States  20/200,  that  is  0.1. 
Also,  the  United  States  estimate  is  very  uncertain,  although  the  lack 
of  firm  statistical  data  has  been  assumed  to  depress  the  U.S.  figure. 

The  Soviet  figure  is  for  registered  blind  persons,  which  may  or  may  not 
leave  out  a substantial  number  of  unreported  cases.  A difference  in 
the  age  structure  of  the  populations  of  the  two  countries  may  also 
play  a role  since  there  is  much  more  blindness  in  the  older  age  groups. 
There  are  some  known  etiological  differences  however.  The  U.S.S.R. 
does  not  have  the  large  retolental  fibroplasia  group  which  arose  in 
the  United  States  in  the  late  forties  and  early  fifties.  I also  recall 
Mrs.  Ludmila  Solntseva,  child  development  specialist  at  the  Institute 
of  Defectology  in  Moscow,  mentioning  some  years  ago  that  they  have  not 
had  any  rubella  epidemics,  while  this  cause  accounts  for  a substantial 
group  of  younger  blind  and  deaf-blind  in  the  United  States.  Mr.  Zimin 
stated  that  there  is  very  little  diabetic  blindness  in  the  Soviet 
Union,  while  diabetes  has  become  the  leading  cause  of  blindness  in 
the  U.S.  in  recent  years. 


20  . 


It  is  fairly  obvious  that  exchanges  such  as  these  reciprocal  tours 
will  not  bring  sudden  major  changes  or  solutions  to  complex  and  long 
standing  problems.  They  can,  however,  foster  a number  of  useful 
developments.  Different  countries  exhibit  strengths  and  weaknesses  in 
different  aspects  of  work  for  the  blind.  By  examining  each  other's 
accomplishments  it  may  be  possible  to  pool  these,  eliminate  a certain 
amount  of  duplication  of  effort  and  short-circuit  the  need  for  a 
considerable  amount  of  what  would  otherwise  be  a slow  and  possibly 
wasteful  search  for  techniques,  devices  and  alternatives  in  dealing 
with  hitherto  unresolved  problems. 

Not  many  solutions,  even  in  the  case  of  technological  devices,  can 
be  simply  transplanted  from  one  socio-cultural  context  to  another. 
However,  if  the  obstacles  to  such  transfers  are  carefully  examined, 
this  may  not  only  make  useful  adaptations  possible  but,  perhaps 
equally  important,  throw  new  and  useful  light  on  the  problems  one 
is  trying  to  resolve. 

Cautious  and  informed  optimism  would  therefore  seem  an  appropriate 
spirit  in  which  to  plan  a continuation  of  international  exchanges 
of  this  nature.  Further  development  seems  possible  along  several 
lines.  One  is  cooperation  in  narrower  and  more  specific  areas,  for 
example  industrial  typhlotechnology , where  the  projected  N.I.B.  visit 
to  the  Soviet  Union  would  provide  a beginning,  or  education  and 
instructional  materials  and  techniques  which  may  be  an  area  promising 
a pooling  of  wealth  on  both  sides. 

Another  approach  would  be  to  expand  exchanges  of  experts  to  other 
countries.  One  context  in  which  Spain  would  be  of  interest  has 
already  been  mentioned.  Another  country  where  work  with  the  blind 
is  highly  developed  is  Japan.  Here  as  in  the  case  of  the  Soviet  Union 
an  initial  exchange  involving  persons  at  a high  general  level  of 
leadership  in  the  field  might  provide  a prelude  to  more  specific 
cooperation  in  areas  that  proved  of  particular  interest. 

Yet  another  approach  could  be  a multi-national  venture  centered  on 
a specialized  area.  For  instance  in  the  case  of  education,  instead 
of  bilateral  exchange  one  might  consider  a joint  tour  in  the  United 
States  of  Japanese  and  Russian  experts,  and  perhaps  include  an  expert 
on  educational  research  information  such  as  Michael  Tobin  of  the 
University  of  Birmingham,  England. 

The  possibilities  for  further  development  of  international  exchanges 
appear  numerous  and  interesting.  It  must  be  emphasized,  however, 
that  planning  will  have  to  be  very  thorough  and  include  a consider- 
ation of  means  of  subsequent  dissemination  of  results  and  follow- 
through  on  any  promising  developments  resulting  from  such  exchanges. 


February  1977 


/ 


. 


S c 3 

HV17  93  •>astrZem^k?vM  UATION  TOUR 
J316  ^n^CXUTXBS  AUD  *®)" 

*SJ-®  <»•*.> — , 


«M£fiJCMI  FOUNDATION  FOR  THE  BUNO 
15  WEST  16th  STREET 
NEW  YORK,  N.  Y.  10011 


