| 


| 


creative 


P.O. BOX 789-M MORRISTOWN, NEW JERSEY 07960 (201) 267-5559 


Dear Friend: 


have received number letters from irate readers complaining that 
the book "Artist and Computer" not actually free advertised our 
subscription literature. Let take this opportunity explain. 


Originally, the "book" was going simply special-focus issue 
the magazine. Then decided print good quality paper; that what 
advertised free and actually intended give away. That is, until 
got firm cost estimate!! Not only was almost times the 
estimate but the book had grown this time 132 pages including number 
4-color pages. 


word about the list price. Originally, were planning publish 
the book for $5.95. When our printing cost estimate went up, raised the 
target cover price $6.95. Eventually, was able make deal with 
major publisher (Harmony Books Div. Crown Publishers) and thus get the 
list price down $4.95. 


any event, "Artist and which now replacing two regular 
issues (May/Jun and Jul/Aug) will cost slightly more than issues 
Creative. Frankly, gave away free would bankrupt. Period. 
Even replacing two issues straining our finances the very utmost. 


Furthermore, when subscriptions expire, send one extra issue the 
end. haven't made big deal about this policy, however, it's intent 
give every subscriber full value for his her money plus little bit 
more. 


hope you enjoy "Artist and Computer" and hope you continue member 
the Creative Computing family. Thanks for your understanding and interest. 


Sincerely yours, 


David 
Publisher 


DHA: icw 
P.S. apologize for creating bit problem for you, 
namely, where shelve "Artist and Computer." While actually Vol. 


Nos. and Creative Computing magazine, suggest that shelved 
book and reference the book placed your magazine file. 


CREATIVE COMPUTING MAGAZINE IDEAMETRICS COMMUNITY COMPUTER CENTER 


%0 
a 
0 £ O 


ARTIST and COMPUTER 


ARTIST and COMPUTER 
CREATIVE COMPUTING Book 


Creative Computing produces and distributes wide variety books, 
magazines, computer art prints, and other products related computer 
applications schools and homes. Available from Creative Computing are 
complete catalog (25¢), sample copy Creative Computing Magazine 
($1.50), subscription (see page 121). Creative Computing, P.O. Box 
789-M, Morristown, 07960, USA. 


Additional copies Artist and Computer are also available directly from 


the publisher, Harmony Books, division Crown Publishers, Inc., One 
Park Avenue, New York, 10016. 


PRODUCED PUBLISHED 


Creative Computing Press Harmony Books 
P.O. Box 789-M division 
Morristown, 07960 Crown Publishers, Inc. 
One Park Avenue 
New York, 10016 


RUTH LEAVITT 


Creative Computing Press Harmony Books 
Morristown, New Jersey New York, New York 


Edited 


Copyright 1976 Creative Computing. 


All Rights Reserved. part this book may utilized reproduced 
any form any means, electronic mechanical, including photo- 
copying, recording, any information storage retrieval system 
without permission writing from the Publisher. Inquiries should 
addressed Harmony Books, division Crown Publishers, Inc., 
One Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016. 


Published simultaneously Canada General Publishing Company 
Limited. 
Printed the United States America. 


Library Congress Catalog Card Number: 76-440 


Library Congress Cataloging Publication Data 
Main entry under title: 

Artist and computer. 

Computer art. Art, century. 

Leavitt, Ruth. 

N7433.8.A77 1975 76-440 

ISBN 0-517-52787-1 

ISBN 0-517-52735-9 pbk. 


Creative Computing Press 
Morristown, New Jersey 


First Printing, June, 1976. 


Jay and Danny 


CONTRIBUTORS 


Charles and Colette Bangert 
729 Illinois Street 
Lawrence, Kansas 66044 


Manuel Barbadillo 

Parque Torremolinos, 
Torremolinos (Malaya) 
Spain 


Vicky Meyer Chaet 
228 Kipling 
Palo Alto, California 94306 


Charles Csuri 

Art Dept./146 Hopkins Hall 
Ohio State University 

128 North Oval Drive 
Columbus, Ohio 43210 


Herbert Franke 

D-8195 Puppling 
Pupplinger Au, near Munich 
Fed. Rep. Germany 


Aldo Giorgini 

School Civil Engineering 
Purdue University 

West Lafayette, Indiana 47907 


Miljenenko Horvat 
3452 Henri-Julien 
Montreal, Canada 


Karen Huff 

Computing Center 
Kansas State University 
Manhattan, Kansas 66506 


Edward 

Mechanical Engr. Dept. 
University College Gower Street 
London, England WC1E 6BT 


Hiroshi Kawano 
3-16-1-15, Aoto 
Katsushika-Ku 
Tokyo, Japan 


Kenneth Knowlton 
810 Belvidere Avenue 
Plainfield, New Jersey 07062 


William Kolomyjec 

Engr. Insts. Serv. Dept. 
College Engineering 
Michigan State University 
East Lansing, Michigan 48824 


Ben Laposky 
301 6th Street 
Cherokee, lowa 51012 


Ruth Leavitt 
5315 Dupont Avenue, South 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55419 


Kurt Lauckner 

Math Dept. 

Eastern Michigan University 
Ypsilanti, Michigan 48197 


Tony Longson 

Dept. Computer Science 
Hatfield Polytechnic 

P.O. Box 109 

Hatfield, Herts. England 


Robert Mallary 

Art Dept. 

University Massachusetts 
Amherst, Massachusetts 01002 


Edward Manning 
972 East Broadway 
Stratford, Connecticut 06497 


Aaron Marcus 

Dept. Architecture and Urban Planning 
Princeton University 

Princeton, New Jersey 08540 


Leslie Mezei 

Dept. Computer Science 
University Toronto 
Toronto, Canada M5S 1A4 


Manfred Mohr 
Bid. Latour-Maubourg 
Paris France 


Vera Molnar 
54, rue Halle 
Paris 14E, France 


Ann Murray 

Watson Gallery 

Wheaton College 

Norton, Massachusetts 02766 


Jacques Palumbo 

c/o Gilles Gheerbrant Galerie 
2130 Crescent 

Montreal H3G 2B8 

Canada 


Duane Palyka 

Computer Science Merrill Engr. Bid. 
The University Utah 

Salt Lake City, Utah 84112 


Larry Press 
128 Park Place 
Venice, California 90291 


Joseph Scala 

Dept. Visual Performing Arts 
University Avenue 

Syracuse University 

Syracuse, New York 13210 


Patsy Scala 
960 Westcott Street 
Syracuse, New York 13210 


Lillian Schwartz 
524 Ridge Road 
Watchung, New Jersey 07060 


Peter Struycken 
Prinsengracht 825 
Amsterdam, Holland 


Synthavision/Larry Elin 
Westchester Plaza 
Elmsford, New York 10523 


Christopher William Tyler 
Smith-Kettlewell Institute 

2232 Webster Street 

San Francisco, California 94115 


Roger Vilder 

410 Avenue Champagneur 
Montreal, Quebec 3P5 
Canada 


John Whitney 
600 Erskin Drive 
Pacific Palisades, California 90272 


Edward Zajec 
via Chiesa 
Trieste, Italy 


H 


PREFACE 


The relationship between artist and computer 
important both people the arts and sciences and 
society whole. The union art and science com- 
puter art reflective the times which welive. Oursisa 
technological society, one which demands inter- 
disciplinary approaches problems. Our lives are closely 
linked one another. Therefore, must communicate. 


Assumptions about computer art are varied. They range 
from the naive belief that computers will take the 
human artists the more sophisticated belief that 
the Leonardo computer art will come. This person 
would scientist, programmer, humanist, and artist—the 
true universal person. Computer art challenges our tradi- 
tional beliefs about art: how art made, who makes it, and 
what the role the artist society. 


The general public, and the artist particular, have 
been conditioned react negatively computers. The 
uninitiated artist asks: what can this machine for me? 
Really, the question should be: what this 
machine? The computer can function for the artist many 
different levels. The artist has only choose what role 
he/she wishes the computer play. Apart from pro- 
ducing finished pieces artwork, William Kolomyjec 
does, one may simply allow the computer function 
idea machine. This evidenced several articles. Karen 
Huff, for example, describes how the computer used 
visualize fabric before actually woven. opposed 


Vil 


weaving graph paper hand, the computer removes 
the automatic color preference found that traditional 
method. Moreover, studying computer illustrations the 
softening contours, which was seen only after weav- 
ing was removed from the loom, can now predicted. 

Another artist, Robert Mallary, describes how uses 
the machine create new artforms means new pro- 
grams. creates sculpture with his program Tran and 
graphics with GRAF/D and TRPL. 3-dimensional pro- 
gram called SHAPE 3/D used tool research 
aesthetics and art theory. Moreover, involved using 
the computer simulate and make decisions land use 
and design. Another approach found the route 
Joseph Scala describes. experimenting and creat- 
ing works art with programs that already exist. 


There are vast areas and levels exploration available 
the artist. The computer the artist 
new way. Its features blend with those its user form 
new type art. The combination artist and oil 
for example, different statement than that same artist 
and watercolors. The medium changes the statement. The 
artist now goes art supply store purchase given 
set tools, whereas the computer artist can create the 
tools will use. This remarkable and allows for 
unlimited possibilities the art created. Every pro- 
gram functions new set tools. The type and quality 
work produced the computer depend both the 
artist who uses the machine and the program. 


Works produced the computer not have unique 
having been created with the aid computer. Many 
these styles existed independently the computer. 
Perhaps the machine had been available the incep- 
tion these styles, they would have been explored more 
thoroughly. found very amusing read the 
exhibition catalogue ‘PAINTING: NEW OPTIONS’ 
Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 1972: 

Jennifer first gridworks were series 
numbers drawn graph paper, that indispensable 
work surface the conceptual artist the 1960s. 
She found that substituting colored dots for the 
numbers, she could transform her mathematical se- 
quences into visually independent forms. The 
enameled steel plates her present work, elegantly 
custom-made the artist’s specifications, have 
gridworks 2304 tiny squares within which the 
artist paints her pointillist dot patterns. Installedona 
wall rows, these modular plates become miniature 
panel paintings that explore variations certain 
mathematical-graphic themes. Some rows establish 
almost cinematic narrative visual events; 
others form continuous patterns that, distance, 
have brilliant optical effect. Though Bartlett con- 
sciously avoids painterly processes, her art mix- 
ture visual improvisation and preconceived 
formulae. plate often begins with arbitrary unit, 
such the continuous black border, 
random dot; quasi-mathematical system dictates 
the rest, and the modular works this same system 
carries over from plate plate. SERIES VIII, 
plate work, the first plate’s design was generated 
isolated white dot, followed white and yellow, 
followed white, yellow, and red, and forth. The 
second plate retains this formula for color sequence, 
but begins with yellow dot. The parabola pattern 
that appears each plate the set not the 
product mathematical equation [Bartlett does 
not work with computer-produced graphics] but 
the result the additive dot-by-dot system she 
selects. 

The explanation her work only made think how 
inappropriate was not have used computer. Further- 
more, the same catalogue find example 
modular art Sol wall drawings. His work 
parallels that Barbadillo. Modular art approach 
often used computer art. However, this case men- 
tion made computers. obvious that people 
Walker Art Center have stereotype image computer 
art. Actually, there such thing ‘computer art’! 

Different artists use the machine different ways 
produce different types art. Edward 
deeply interested artificial intelligence and uses this ap- 
proach creating cybernetic sculpture. Aaron Marcus’ 
work shows his interest concrete poetry. creates 
picture environments and his poem drawings give new 
meaning and depth words. Duane Palyka uses color 
television monitor attached computer system and 


paints pictures unprecedented manner. The 
Bangerts’ drawings appear hand-made. Aldo Giorgini’s 
moire patterns have the look optical art. Each takes 
advantage different features offered the computer. 


have been lecturing groups adults and students 
the last few years, both own work and computer 
art general. These groups have included students art, 
art history, computer science, futuristics, etc. found that 
irrespective background, questions concerning motiva- 
tion were repeatedly asked. had been thinking about the 
answers these questions for some time. When Dave Ahl 
asked put together edition Creative 
Computing magazine devoted computer art, felt that 
this would ideal opportunity discover how other 
computer artists would respond these questions. was 
see they shared feelings. Since previous 
books computer art had only documented the state 
the art, felt that now would interesting have the 
artists discuss their art with regard these questions: 


How/why did you become involved with the com- 
puter (in producing art)? 


What your art background? 


What role does the computer play 
simulation, tool, etc.? What your role? 


Are your computer works related non- 
computer art? 


you have final image mind when work 
begins? 


Could your work done without the aid acom- 
puter? yes, why use the computer? 


what extent are you involved the technical 
production your work, for example, pro- 
gramming? 


you feel art work created with computer has 
now will have impact art whole inthe 
future? 


you intend continue using the computer 
create art pieces? 


you recommend the use the computer for 
others creating works art? 


Some the authors address the questions their 
articles; some not. Many the papers are purely state- 
ments about the artist’s work. Just the artists’ artwork 
differs, their papers. important for artists 
able discuss their work their own words. Therefore, 
the papers this book are presented with minimum 
editing. 

grateful all who submitted manuscripts for this 
book. Each contribution helps clarify the relationship 
between artist and computer. 


Ruth Leavitt 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
February 1976 


CONTENTS 


ANN 
MURRAY 


The idea organizing Computer Graphics Show 
Wheaton College the spring 1975 first came 
when read article Norton work. Norton 
teaches mathematics Amherst College, where 
husband was then teaching geology. had several discus- 
sions with him, and was able make numerous sug- 
gestions important people the field Computer Art. 
also demonstrated the use the computer generate 
and execute design. began lot reading the 
subject, and eventually put together the show. Initially 
had intended for focus work being produced 
New England (to help control transportation costs) but the 
exhibition eventually grew include work from through- 
out the country. catalogue introduction wanted 
avoid lengthy description computer techniques, 
because felt that these had been covered other 
publications, and from far more technical view than 
art historian, was able present. Rather had become 
aware during graduate student years that mathe- 
matics had always played very important works 
art—certainly not every painting sculpture, butina 
number significant ones, especially during 19th 
and early 20th centuries. the catalogue aimed 
discuss computer graphics not the products complex 
machines unique the modern age, but related 
long standing interest in, and preoccupation with science 
and mathematics the part artists—particularly artists 
who sought create visual images based upon 
universally valid order. 


The following introduction that catalogue. 


Computer Graphics Historical Perspective 


Several years ago Herbert introduced his well- 
known essay with the following 
anecdote: 


woman peered over the entrance turnstile the 
paintings inside, while debating whether not 
pay the modest fee one the painters seated 
the cash box. ‘Were these done machine, 
Monsieur?’ she asked. ‘No, Madame,’ calmly 
replied, ‘they were done hand.” 


The woman’s confusion, amusing may be, was not 
without foundation. For Georges Seurat, chief innovator 
the new style, had transformed the loosely applied 
brushstrokes and intuitively broken colors 
ism into fabric tiny, uniform, color-bearing dots which 
repeated over the surface the canvas with machine- 
like regularity. dividing his colors this calculated 
manner, attempted apply painting the optical laws 
described modern scientific studies color such 
Ogden Rood’s Modern Chromatics (French ed., 1881) and 
M.E. Chevreul’s loi contraste simultané des 
couleurs (1839). 

Other scientific principles also intrigued Seurat. 
followed the latest experiments being conducted 
mental patients determine the psychological effects 
linear movement and color, and attempted apply 
the results these studies his paintings effort 
evoke particular mood the viewer. His attempt 
elucidate permanent structure underlying the ephemeral 
surface appearances which delighted the 
ists, occasionally led Seurat construct the composition 
painting drawing according the mathematical 
ratios which defined the ideal proportions the golden 
section. All this was pursuit allusive ‘scientific 
esthetique’ described his friend Charles Henry (1859- 
1926), who lectured and published prolifically mathe- 
matics, psychology and aesthetics. 

The emergence the first digital computers the early 
1940’s opened the possibility pursuing scientific 
aesthetic along lines more appropriate for era space- 
age technology. This, course, did not happen over- 
night, and the computer remains, great extent, 
scientific tool rather than artistic medium. Yet the 
mid-sixties the boundaries had become less clearly 
defined. Occasional investigators who had begun 
using the computer obtain information the form 
plotted diagrams quickly realized that their ‘scientific 
pictures’ often had considerable aesthetic merit their 
own Before long number mathematicians and 
engineers had begun explore these aesthetic 
possibilities apart from any scientific objectives. Draw- 
ings produced with the aid the computer made their way 
into fashionable New York galleries, and 1968 saw 
major international exhibition computer 
‘Cybernetic Serendipity,’ held the Institute Con- 
temporary Arts London. 

the present time the computer being utilized 
graphic designers, printmakers, sculptors, film makers, 
architects and choreographers. Many prefer work 
conjunction with programmer who can translate their 
ideas into the mathematical language the machine. 
Others have learned program their ideas directly, 
thereby maintaining immediate involvement with their 
medium has been the case more traditional forms 
art. 

The creation two-dimensional computer-generated 
design requires number First the artist must 
state his idea terms program, which typed onto 
punch cards and fed into the computer. the basis 
these instructions (known ‘software’) the machine (or 
computes the coordinates the desired 
points. possible for the artist program random 
well ordered elements into his prospective design, and 
combine them whatever proportions seem 
aesthetically effective. The range possible effects 
extends from abstract geometric patterns illusionistic 
landscapes. 

the more sophisticated systems visual image first 
materializes when beam electrons connects the points 
series straight lines which successively ‘draws’ 
the screen cathode ray tube (CRT). this stage 


its realization, the picture appears white 
dark ground, and looks were being viewed 
ordinary television set. This provides the artist with 
opportunity correct errors otherwise modify his 
design before recording film reproducing 
graphic form. When satisfied with the visual effect 
appears the screen the artist may choose have 
photographed interconnected camera, alterna- 
tively, may instruct the computer have the picture 
mechanically plotted onto paper black colored inks. 
also possible introduce color drawing via stand- 
ard silkscreening techniques. 


Computer-generated graphics have affinities both with 
the drawing and printmaking media. Like drawings 
executed hand, the image applied ink directly onto 
paper. But unlike traditional drawing, which one 
kind, the computer picture can reproduced any number 
times re-running the program and replotting the 
results. this respect more closely related litho- 
graph, which the original image drawn onto 
lithographic stone and then multiplied printing onto 
paper. should, however, pointed out that replotting 
computer design does not insure image identical that 
the initial drawing. The mechanical plotter can lose its 
orientation, thereby producing strikingly different effect 


which may have aesthetic merit its own right. also 
possible for the pen run dry temporarily, creating 
random patterns linear activity versus void the 
surface. some instances these too can yield aesthetical- 
pleasing results which the artist may choose exploit. 


graphics, films and even three-dimensional sculpture 
created with the aid computers seem like the epitome 
scientific aesthetic, precisely their mathematical 
predictability which often prevents computer-generated 
designs from being accepted legitimate art. 
Michael Noll has pointed out,‘ intuition has always been 
valued component the creative process, and there 
would seem little room for intuitive response 
the part the mechanical plotter taking its orders froma 
program which everything specified mathematical 
terms. 

Yet the emergence medium which totally 
dependent upon mathematical foundation might 
viewed extreme manifestation the same interest 
mathematics previously displayed several 
artists the modern era. The challenge restructuring 
nature upon universally valid geometrical framework 
intrigued others besides Seurat. The ideal golden section 
also lurks beneath the formal complexities Juan Gris’s 
Cubist still-lifes, and fact ‘La Section d’Or’ provided the 


‘Archimedean Spiral’ Norton Starr, 1973. The print photo reversal 
black ink drawing white paper. the Wheaton College collection, 


Norton, MA. 


title for one the most ambitious exhibitions Cubist 
painting held the years immediately preceding World 
War Roger Allard, who championed the Cubist styleina 
1912 essay for the German almanac, Der Blaue Reiter 
(1912), maintained that cubist painter experiences space 
terms mathematical equations and ratios, and seeks 
elucidate their hidden 

Wassily Kandinsky, the Russian leader the Blaue 
Reiter group Munich, was intrigued the notion that 
beneath the structure painting lie hidden geometrical 
configurations which speak the soul rather than the 
eye. his famous essay entitled Uber das Geistige der 
Kunst (1912), Kandinsky suggested that the relationships 
among these configurations might even expressed 
mathematically, although more terms ‘irregular’ than 
‘regular’ figures. stated emphatically that “The final 
abstract expression every art (Kandinsky’s 
italics) 

another article written for Der Blaue Reiter Kandinsky 
discussed his views the use geometric forms and 
mathematical relationships felt they were being 
applied Cubism. After commenting that the Cubists’ use 
the number far too limited, argued that widely 
divergent numbers such and 0.3333 are equally valid, 
equally vital inner-vibrating beings. “Why,” asked, 
“should one satisfied with Why should one exclude 
Kandinsky would, doubt, have been discon- 
certed with the knowledge that one day such numbers 
could programmed into computer, and their ‘inner 
significance’ projected onto the face cathode ray 
tube. Nevertheless, the emergence such picture 
ironically fulfills strange prediction Kandinsky 
himself, who envisioned art form which would radiate 
directly from the mind without the aid 
brushes.® 

For many the computer seems not only limit the 
intuitive response his own unfolding creation, 
but also prevents him from leaving any personal trace 
the execution the work. Granted can devise pro- 
gram uniquely suited particular artistic conception, 
and can accept, reject, modify the image emerges 
the screen. can even vary the quality line and 
introduce variety coloristic effects. Yet somehow all 
this seems limited when measured against ‘old master’ 
drawing, which every line and every nuance directly 
reflects its individual response the medium. 


However, consider computer-generated graphics 
this light remove them from their proper artistic 
context. Like many ‘conceptual’ works the past 
several years, the creative process centered not the 
execution the work, but the artist’s mind con- 
ceives the idea for piece. fact, often the all- 
important idea rather than the individual’s technical 
mastery particular medium which constitutes the 
success painting sculpture. The realization the 
mental image can even occur without his physical 
involvement, even his presence, evidenced 
reputable sculptors who send their specifications the 
foundry (jokingly dubbed the ‘sculpture factory’) where 
the piece executed. Viewed this context the computer 
should considered not gimmick but tool 
capable freeing the artist from tasks which otherwise 
would prove tedious even impossible accomplish 
hand. 

many respects the utilization the computer for 
photography the ‘mechanical medium’ the nine- 
teenth century. its early days many painters felt 
threatened the ability reproduce scene 
with greater verisimilitude than was possible means 
brushes and pigment. However, those painters confident 
enough their own superiority over the machine quickly 


began regard the camera valuable tool for record- 
ing the physical characteristics person, place 
object form which could consulted easily for future 
reference. not surprising that both Eugene Delacroix 
and Gustave Courbet occasionally worked from 
photographs rather than from live models, that Paul 
Gauguin drew photographs for the artifacts depicted 
some his Oceanic scenes. Only after the photograph 
was accepted the level artistic aid could ulti- 
mately cease threaten painting and develop into 
creative medium its own right. 

Much the computer-generated graphic work date 
must properly considered the groundwork for 
similar type development toward autonomous 
artistic medium. The first decade experimentation has 
shown that the computer can programmed simulate 
the styles previously existing art. one might 
well suited designs which are basically linear and 
geometric, but using special program initially 
developed Ken Knowlton the Bell Telephone Labora- 
tories, can also reproduce tonal gradations. Other 
programs allow execute original designs 
amazingly free-hand manner, draw complicated 
buildings and their landscape settings perfect perspec- 
tive. One senses, however, that the potential 
tool for creating completely new forms art has hardly 
been tapped, although its obvious value the fields 
architecture and commercial design has already been 
acknowledged, and currently being utilized highly 
creative ways respected filmmakers like Stan Vander- 
beek, John Whitney and Lillian Schwartz. The value the 
computer for artists lies not its ability mimic what man 
can do, but providing means for man accomplish 
artistic endeavors which ordinarily would lie beyond his 
technical scope. 

almost impossible imagine what art lovers can 
expect from the computer the future. discussing its 
artistic consequences, Michael Noll has predicted the 
development special ‘programming languages’ which 
could geared the requirements any individual 
artist, and which would eventually become “as natural 
use the conventional brushes and Noll 
correct, and more and more artists learn programming 
techniques order realize their ideas directly without 
the programmer the concept bona-fide 
computer-based ‘scientific aesthetic’ may begin seem 
less foreign. 


Norton, Massachusetts 
October 1975 


FOOTNOTES 


Robert Herbert, Neo-/mpressionism, exh. cat. (New York: The 
Solomon Guggenheim Foundation, 1968), 14. 

Herbert Franke, Computer Graphics—Computer Art, trans. Gustav 
Metzger (London: Phaidon, 1971), 59. 

Michael Noll, “The Digital Computer Creative Medium,” /EEE 
Spectrum (October 1967), 90. 

pp. 89-90. 

Roger Allard, “Die Kennzeichen der Erneuring der Malerei,” Der 
Blaue Reiter, ed. Franz Marc and Wassily Kandinsky (Munich, 1912); 
new edition with documentary notes Klaus Lankheit (Munich, 1965), 
pp. 77-86. 

Wassily Kandinsky, Uber das Geistige der Kunst (Munich, 1912); 

English edition: Concerning the Spiritual Art, trans. Ralph Manheim 
(New York, 1947), 73. 
Wassily Kandinsky, “Uber die Formfrage,” Der Blaue Reiter, 173. 
Sixten Ringbom, “Art the ‘Epoch the Great Spiritual’: Occult 
Elements the Early Theory Abstract Painting,” Warb, (1966) 
416. 

Michael Noll, “Computers and the Visual Arts,” Design and Planning 
ed. Martin Krampen and Peter Seitz (New York: Hastings House, 
Publishers, Inc. 1967), 79. 


On 


ROBERT 
MALLARY 


“How/why did you become involved with the computer 
producing art?” 

involvement with the computer the consequence 
long-standing interest art-and-technology that 
back the very beginning career 1936. 
first enthusiasm was the Mexican school mural 
painting and model was David Alfaro Siqueiros, who 
early 1932 was advocating revolution the tech- 


nology art. For Siqueiros this meant using the airbrush 
and synthetic automobile lacquers paint his out-sized 
propaganda murals, and began following his foot- 
steps. 

During the forties was experimenting with both acrylic 
and polyester plastics, with fluorescent dyes and pig- 
ments, and spent couple months researching 
cinematographic approach kinetic sculpture based 
what described ‘multiplanar sequential image projec- 
tion.’ 1951 constructed eight-bladed stroboplane 
test the principle, and demonstrated the device one- 
man show Los Angeles year later. Along with some 
drawings plaster also displayed cluster trans- 
parent fluorescent sculptures illuminated black light. 
These latter triggered first publicity break—a full page 
color reproduction Time. 

turned the computer 1967 learning for the first 
time about its ability generate and transform images. 
Almost immediately realized that earlier idea multi- 
planar image synthesis could used describe three- 
dimensional forms within the computer slicing and 
stacking them two-dimensional shapes—something 
like contour map. The result was computer sculp- 
ture program TRAN2, the first version which was written 
1968 for the IBM 1130 system Amnerst College. 

“What your art background?” 

activities art-and-technology and with the computer 
the Neo-Dada and assemblage constructions was 
doing New York about 1960. However, even this ‘junk 
art’ could not have been made but for polyester resin, 
explorations art-and-technology. But! gave using all 
plastics, solvents and spray cans after 1962 learning 
they were poisoning me, and for the five years before dis- 


‘Quad IV’, laminated marble, inches high. 
computer sculpture program TRAN 
was design the sculpture and draw 
the cross sections, which were transferred 
the marble slabs and traced. The slabs 
were cut out, laminated together with 
epoxy, then ground smooth contour 
and polished. 


‘ 


covering the computer, had virtually explicit involve- 
ment with art-and-technology. 

The year 1967 was crucial for number other 
ways. was the began teaching the University 
Massachusetts Amherst and had the opportunity try 
out computers, and was also about that time that art- 
and-technology shook the art world—thanks mainly 
Robert Rauchenberg and his friends the Experiments 
Art and Technology group (E.A.T.). Unfortunately, this 
high-octane group, after launching art-and-technology 
this country, promptly sank with series technically 
amateurish and Pop-ridden exhibitions that were 
giving art-and-technology bad name. Those who 
are really serious about art-and-technology (and have 
stuck with during hard times) are still paying the price. 
But things are looking better. For since its nadir about 
1971 the movement has been reviving. fact, its 
prospects might even called promising now that has 
struck alliance with the computer and has achieved 
solid base operations few key colleges and 
universities. 

However, the artists and engineers who organized 
E.A.T. should given their due. Although they certainly 
did not invent art-and-technology out whole cloth 
(whose roots are diverse Constructivism, the 
Bauhaus, and the Mexicans—to mention only few), they 
nevertheless managed contribute catchy less than 
euphonious name for movement that had long been 
need one. 

sum, art background art-and-technology, and 
enduring interest the potential science and tech- 
nology for art. 

“What role does the computer play for you?” 

The power the computer art that can play 
variety roles, many them cybernetic, ‘brain-like.’ 
The computer, like any tool machine, extends human 
capabilities. But unique that extends the power 
the mind well the hand. Hence, clear distinction 
must made between this brain-like function and the 
output instrumentalities (like film, video, photography, 


holography, kinetic sculpture, graphics, light art, etc.) 
through which this power expressed. This explains why 
the computer not art medium such, and why the 
phrase ‘computer art,’ used convey this meaning, 
misnomer. Properly defined, the role the computer 
that key cybernetic component host medium, art 
form, art-generating system where performs variety 
functions, some them far more sophisticated than 
others from standpoint. other words, some 
them have more with the brain than the hand, and 
this respect are more portentous their long-term 
implications for art. And these cybernetic implica- 
tions that interest the most. 

For example, one artist might use the computer for its 
speed, precision, and implacable tirelessness; another for 
its ability imitate biological, physiological, psy- 
chological stimulus/response interactions; another for its 
ability simulate other kinds art; another way 
mediating the flow energy and information within 
transductive system (as when sound ignites the visual 
kinetics CRT video display); another for its ability 
regulate precise and fast-moving performances (asina 
kinetic laser system); another for its ability calculate the 
minute ‘iterations-with-a-difference’ spiralgraphic- 
like composition; and another for its ability calculate 
hologram, the small differences imagery stereo 
pair. 

for myself, although the underlying concept 
has yet fully implemented, eventually this 
sculpture program will exploit the interactive 
‘conversational’ capabilities speed and enhance the 
design sculptural forms, continuously shaping and 
reshaping them means large library transforma- 
tion algorithms and routines. Another program mine, 
called GRAF/D, uses the plotter for better reason than 
draw grid lines straighter, faster, and more evenly 
than could hand. Yet another program, called TRPL, 
uses the calculate the interpolations 
set master lines, while also incrementing and decre- 
menting the intervals between the lines. this case these 


computer graphic’, 9%x9% inches, 1972. 
two-color plotter graphic made the Amherst College 
IBM 1130 system. The program, called GRAF/D, was writ- 
Fortran the artist. The program stops while the 
pens are changed hand. Felt tip and ball point pens are 
combined the same drawing. 


~—» 

= > 42> 42 €> 23 4+ ee ee 

$e 


\ 


_ 


N - 


Computer Graphic’, 12% high inches wide, 1972. 


three-color graphic made the Amherst College IBM system. The 
program, called GRAF/D, was written the artist Fortran The 
program stops while the pens are changed hand. Felt tip and ballpoint 
colored pens are combined the same drawing. 


microscopic nuances are beyond ability either cal- 
culate draw. 

But within the context the computer itself almost all 
the capabilities have just mentioned are somewhat the 
order mechanical skills when compared the 
truly cybernetic potential. This comes into 
play when the computer begins make aesthetic 
distinctions, choices, and assessments, and when has 
been programmed with the information needed for 
organize and compose art superior quality auto- 
matically and seemingly ‘on its own.’ Used this way, the 
computer can turned into marvelous tool for research 
art theory and aesthetics, and for testing the structural 
syntax, principles, devices, and ratios against the quality 
the serial output. Because the computer preeminently 
calculating machine can output alphanumeric list- 
ings the quantifiable features and relationships needed for 
close study and analysis. 

SHAPE was written five years ago start this 
direction, and last summer its name was changed 
SHAPE3/D when was enlarged 3-dimensional pro- 
gram for organizing repertoire solids into various 
kinds compositions, some simple and some complex. 
Thirty parameters can define enormous range forms, 
features, and compositional set-ups which can rotated 
for viewing from any arbitrary perspective. The ratios 
size, spacing, height, color, empty-to-filled space, and 
other characteristics can all prespecified within 
approximate range, while using the random number 
subroutine generate the ‘variety-within-specified- 
limits’ which the essence the approach. 

Last summer interdisciplinary group artists, 
environmental planners, and computer specialists our 
campus was funded the National Endowment for the 
Arts study the aesthetic aspect stripmine reclama- 


tion, approaching from the standpoint landscape 
design and large-scale environmental sculpture. This 
very much acomputer-oriented project which 
combining into single integrated package number 
the computer capabilities just enumerated. 

For example, using the system its interactive mode, 
the designer/sculptor will compose landform arrange- 
ments based substructure geometrical primitives, 
which the right moment can joined and unified 
curve-fitting algorithm that scans the topographical 
surface. Or, put into the automated mode, the computer 
will suggest ideas its own—all accord witha 
complex web criteria that, addition the explicitly 
aesthetic specifications, also includes environmental, 
land use, cost, and other requirements that must 
considered. These plans and designs will then out- 
putted variety visual forms (film, video, stereo, CRT 
display, plotter, etc.) for the more efficient and vivid com- 
munication this visual information. What describ- 
ing, course, ultimate objective. Our immediate 
goals are more modest. 

short, the ‘role’ the computer for precisely its 
diversity roles, most them cybernetic some way 
degree. 

“Are your computer works related non-computer 
art?” 

Definitely yes—particularly the geometry and for- 
malism Constructivism and Neo-Plasticism. fact, the 
more geometric and mathematically-based kinds 
computer art (like spiralgraphics) might even qualify asa 
subset and off-shoot Constructivism, which turn 
likely both revitalized and broadened this new 
development art-and-technology. And the same holds 
for Art, which are buried anumber unexplored 
potentials that only acomputer can uncover. Although the 
moire patterns generated program TRPL are surely 
not Art such, they suggest something have 
mind. 

“Do you have final image mind when work begins?” 

fallacy that artists simply copy ready- 
made image that fixed and unchanging the mind’s 
eye. The error here thinking the creative process 
essentially static and undialectical., The start-up stage for 
most artists rather vague idea that evolves towards 
definition and completeness the course the work 
itself (and the case Abstract Expressionism and 
gesture painting this open-ended strategy practically 
sine-qua-non). Moreover, contemporary artists are likely 
jettison the original idea completely something better 
happens along while the work underway. 

see that the computer changes this very much. 
developing, then using program express the 
Original idea, there are usually experiments with the 
parameter settings get the most out the program and 
optimize the output. the course debugging pro- 
gram, the output might reveal possibility that could not 
foreseen when the program was first planned. 


| 

| 
| | 
— 


‘4-Color Computer Graphic’, inches, 1972. 


four-color plotter graphic made the Amherst College IBM 1130 
system. The program, called GRAF/D, was written Fortran the 
artist. For making this drawing the program was run through twice, once for 
the upper half and again for the lower half. Each drawing one-of-a-kind. 


However, would hazard the generalization that the 
greater the power, scope, and versatility program, the 
greater the possibility these unexpected discoveries. 
fact, one the delights complex programs with many 
parameters these surprising productions. And this also 
points that one has learn how best use program 
once has been written. 

“Could your work done without the aid 
computer? yes, why use the computer?” 

program GRAF/D does nothing but draw straight 
lines grid-like patterns. don’t doubt there are 
thousands artists who could draw similar graphics 
hand they were mind to. But more 
precisely, either climbing the 
walls, making blotches the next the last line. 
Although this use the computer can hardly called 
cybernetic, still sufficient excuse use it. Mere 
convenience justification, just use machines 
many things are able without them. But use 
them nevertheless—and why not? And why not use the 
computer just for its convenience when making certain 
kinds art? 

TRPL another cup tea. this case would plain 
madness attempt calculate, then hand-draw the 
precise scheme lines and spaces required for gen- 
erating the moire patterns that are important this 
series. 

This same question relevant the three 
four sculptures made the late sixties using TRAN2 
the program. Since these works appear rather con- 
ventional examples abstract volumetric sculpture, 
difficult perceive what role the computer played. But 
rest assured, did play role the design stage, even 
though its contribution not apparent. What missing 


here, course, output medium that matches the 
computer its contemporaneity—something 
holography, for example. fact, still looking for that 
medium, and the delay finding explains part why the 
punch cards for are resting the shelf. 

“To what extent are you involved the technical 
production your work, for example, programming?” 

first was unable any the programming 
needed and relied mainly students and paid 
assistants. But have since learned some Fortran, enjoy 
programming and problem-solving activity, 
and wish had the time become better it. And need 
can pinch hit for Dave Backer, student the 
computer science program who teach the 
Computer Graphic Workshop have going the 
University Massachusetts. 

When confronted with really formidable program- 
ming task, however, like work with expert. this 
case contribution specify the over-all character 
and purpose the program, insist some user-oriented 
features, and help defining and naming the variables 
and parameters that are needed. knowing something 
about programming myself can work more effectively 
with the programmer. 

But have yet come across any canned program 
so-called graphics language that can any 
Knowlton’s EXPLOR, which look forward trying out 
now that has been our UMass CDC 
KRONOS system). Occasionally come across 
that admire very much, like Jeff Bangert’s simulation 
the hand-made art his wife Colette was doing some years 
back. this kind situation feel challenged test 
whether might obtain better results from the program 


1491 


x 


Color Plotter Graphic’, 4x5 inches, 1973. 

two-color plotter graphic made the Amherst College IBM 1130 
computer and plotter. The main program (called TRPL) was written the 
artist. curve fitting subroutine (called XFIT) was written Dr. Roger 
Ehrich. The program interpolates series lines master line 
the left and another the right. third master line used graph the 
spacing between the lines. The moire patterns result from the interaction 
between the spaced lines with peculiarity the pen, which restricted 
system program moving either vertically, horizontally, some 


increment degrees. 


than its authors (in fact, put the challenge them once). 
perhaps results the same high quality, but 
different character. However, the Bangerts are not about 
let this program out their hands, certainly 
blame them. This sophisticated program much too 
personal throw the winds, even put into the 
hands trusted friend. 


Those aspiring serious involvement with the 
computer should trouble themselves learn something 
about programming, even they have intention ever 
becoming experts. Nor does mastering one the easy-to- 
learn graphic languages qualify anyone program- 
mer. Real programming requires analysis and clear 
definition the task performed, then ability 
design program and devise the required algorithms. This 
intellectual discipline the first order that has 
potential education beyond the technicalities pro- 
gramming computers. also convinced can play 
role the education art students helping them 
think and discuss what they are doing more explicitly and 
analytically. least, this major part the philosophy 
behind our Computer Graphics Workshop and its teach- 
ing Fortran art students. 


“Do you feel art work created with computer has now 
will have impact art whole the future?” 


Computer art has yet make much impact, but 
will. fact, were not confident its future would not 
interested computer art, because the current level 
performance simply not that impressive. this point 
charitable judging both own work and that 
others (the question throw back is: “What good 
baby?”) But time goes standards must, and will, 
stiffen. Even now time move beyond the easy gim- 
micks towards more substantial achievements. 

“Do you intend continue using the computer create 
art pieces?” 

Yes, even despite the constant irritation and frustra- 
tions not having the resources achieve what! knowin 
bones can accomplished means the computer. 
Here again, inspired not what currently being 
done, but what know possible. 

“Do you recommend the use the computer for others 
creating works art?” 

Those who are right for computer art will find their way 
it. But minimal critical mass information must 
available and circulating. fact, this collection state- 
ments, articles, and material prepared for ‘Artist and 
Computer should help lot. 


Massachusetts 
November 1975 


ALDO 
GIORGINI 


Dear Editor, 

hope you will accept article letter form. think 
this device will allow freer hand than article 
would, and, perhaps, closer touch with the queries that 
you expressed your call for papers. 

art background is, perhaps, somehow unusual 
compared the average American artist. the age ten, 
was asked apprentice Carlo Ingeneri, now well- 
known painter and sculptor Decamere, Eritrea, who, 
make living, was teaching freehand drawing the 
school was attending. Initially parents paid fee 
which was later waived when work the shop was 
worth the instruction received from the artist. World War 
over, 1949 family moved back Italy, where the 
same circumstance repeated itself. The freehand drawing 
instructor the Scientific Lyceum frequented 
Voghera asked his apprentice. Ambrogio Casati 
(this his name) and sculptor who has worked 
number media and has produced outstanding 
works which are now high demand. had been one 
the handful futurists that survived the ideologic con- 
demnation fascism and developed strong personal 
style that recalls both the Impressionists (for the subtle 
use light) and the Futurists (for the special atmosphere 
fieri his paintings). 

Notwithstanding dedication was spending 
average three hours aday the studio) and success 
handling the media, never considered seriously 
future art. The environment formative years 
mixture maternal and paternal influence) had condi- 
tioned order achievement values roughly the 
following order: Saint Artist Scientist Hero 
Builder Politician and/or Moneymaker. realistic 
assessment talents and the crushing conditioning 
the above hierarchy made choose engineering for 
career. 


‘Negative Reflection’, drawn with the program FIELDS written Giorgini- 
Chen. 


Since entering college have only occasionally produc- 
some artwork, but the dormant interest woke four 
years ago, when started developing wet technique with 
enamels and acrylics that took literally two years 
control. call this process chastique (from stochastic 
technique).* The works done this technique feature 
fantastic organic-like forms which, according the words 
Mario Contini, art critic Eco D’Arte, Florence, Italy, 


‘The Kiss Europa drawn with the program written Giorgini-Chen 
called FIELDS. 


*Friends mine suggest that the name would more appropriate for 
intimate hygiene spray for virgins. 


are well balanced, refined, and 
stimulating the visual-interpretative level. Urging ... 
masses full meanings stand out from the background 
and arise introductory archetypal data and 
emblematic images, either for free fantastical enjoy- 
ment for exclusively aesthetical fruition, 
still work with this technique now and then, since think 
that rich with possibilities for visual experiences, albeit 
spend most time free from professional activities 
the direction computer visualizations. 

scientific tool. the years 1966-67, while Postdoctoral 
Fellow the National Center for Atmospheric Research 
worked numerical simulation turbulence. The re- 
search was very demanding the visualization level and, 
therefore, started playing with the output facilities 
best graphical representation the results re- 
search. made some computer generated movies with the 
CRT-microfilm facility NCAR and the waiting time 
between one output and the next made some sequences 


‘Claustrophobia’, drawing made with the FIELDS program Giorgini- 


Chen. 


didactical nature about Fourier Analysis. Once 
Purdue, had some graduate students the same field, 
and started ‘playing around’ with some the computer 
drawings that were made illustration the research 
done. From here the purposeful use the computer 
art tool the pace was very short. 

This being the origin computer efforts art, 
should not surprising discover that the way use the 
computer scientific endeavors has affected think- 
ing about its use for the production art. fluid- 
mechanic research computer, the preparation the 
computer programs and subroutines has always been 
seen analogous the design laboratory 
facilities and the instruments for physico-experimental 
research. have called the complete set programs and 
routines ‘numerical laboratory’ for numerical ‘experi- 
ments’ fluidmechanics. sure the time devoted 
the design the facilities and instruments (programs and 
subroutines) paramount importance, and sometimes 
one has beyond the conventional design for true 


z 


invention instruments and facility parts. matter how 
‘intoxicating’ this design part, always tried never 
lose track the goal the research: the experiments 
fluidmechanics. The same attitude have devoted the 
‘computer visual experiments.’ have designed and 
invented programs and subroutines, not for their own sake 
but components the ‘numerical laboratory’ for the 
‘visual experiments.’ You can see that this attitude the 
same one that was implied mention the chastique. 
other words, view, programs and subroutines are 
the disposable part the process art computer. 

The prints that send you have all been made using 
drawings generated with the program FIELDS, developed 
myself with the help Dr. W.C. Chen. These drawings 
(and some others not illustrated here) are the reason why 
the program was made. Other people may use this pro- 
gram, they wish, (it has been published its entirety 
with explanations for its use) but must realized that 
the ‘numerical visual laboratory’ called FIELDS, any 
other program, far less than tool: literally 
‘programme’ with large number degrees freedom 
for the user, but with still larger number degrees 
freedom ‘frozen in’ the designer. The user must realize 
that whatever output that program yields, will reflect 
more the creative constraints the designer the pro- 
gram than those the user. The user has bend, 
comply with very general view visual phenomena, and 
bound produce best original the ‘style’ the 
program, worst variation imitation one the 
existing outputs. 

The word style has been used here with intentional 
critical connotations: the use one program will 
guarantee the development ‘style’ (which some 
critics may discover broader than the slogan-type 
styles which some traditional artists develop with the only 
non-ostensible purpose being singled out from the 
crowd). view, this cheap way getting some- 
where with minimum effort. true that the develop- 
ment numerical laboratory for visual experiments 
justified the diversity experiments that can 
performed (in other words: let one day creation 
followed six days restful, complacent contempla- 
tion). But, view, these experiments should explore 
the region delimited the degrees freedom the pro- 
gram, and not describe detail the minutest variations 
that lead from one ‘original’ the next. one proceeds 
the latter direction, lifetime stylistically coherent 
artistic production guaranteed follow the one day 
creation. 

With the above, dear Editor, feel that have implicitly 
answered several the questions that you have asked. 
will now answer explicitly some others. 

“Do you have final image mind when your work 
begins?” 

think that this fundamental question should concern 
more the behaviorist than the art critic the artist himself. 
But the question asked over and over any artist. Heis, 
therefore, compelled the direction 

(a) introspecting himself order discover his 
modus 

(b) reporting the eventual findings. 

While the introspective phase may have its positive 
influence the conscious behavior, the ex- 
planatory phase may result deleterious effects, since 
may produce cliches that aim more astounding than 
reporting. propos, have you seen the recent television 
documentary the title “Hello his theatrical 
apparatus just self-made gilded cage for the dead bird 
that miraculous mechanism provides with predictable 


motion and deja melody?) 

overly simplified model for the modus operandi 
artist offer, semi-facetiously, the following continuum 
between the two extremes CeMO and MeMO. 

CeMO Cerebral Modus Operandi)—The artist 
cogitat, ergo est. Visual images are entirely manipulated 
... pardon ... mentipulated the artist’s mind and the 
result this process transferred, any convenient 
mechanism (the artist’s hand, apprentice, construc- 
tion firm, computer ...), into vulgar material substance 
(Hello Plato!). 

MeMO (Memoriless Modus Operandi)—The artist can 
react only what sees front his eyes, without any 
ability mentipulate the visual images. The gestures that 
ensue (hopefully intentional) modify the subject his 
visual stimuli. 

think that both conventional artists and computer 
artists may found spanning the whole continuum, albeit 
(non-interactive) computer artists may find themselves 
closer CeMO than MeMO. particular case, 
when operating the computer mode, tend fully 
prefabricate the images mentally and then render them 
computer. The complexity some drawings (see 
Turbulent Communication) usually creates some doubts 
about this assertion, since they are very mediate elabora- 
tions moire patterns. Nevertheless may not 
difficult accept the fact that relatively large number 
experiments performed the visual effects moire 
patterns can give rather intimate familiarity 
ingredients for their design. 


‘The Kiss Europa drawn with the program FIELDS written Giorgini- 
Chen. 


‘Aldo Giorgini, drawn with the 
Giorgini-Chen. 


“Could your work done without the aid the 
computer?” 

Yes, fashion analogous the one carving marble 
with sponge. Since all FORTRAN instructions could 
performed other techniques, there doubt that one 
could execute the same calculating and drawing 
hand Cartesian plane. The difference between the 
two approaches lies merely the amount time required 
for the execution the piece. The time constraint 
paramount importance all endeavors and are talk- 
ing here time ratios that approach some orders mag- 
nitude. The question, nevertheless, amenable another 
interpretation which more immediate the following 
formulation: “Does your work with the computer affect the 
direction your results?” This question germane the 
other: “Are your computer works related your non- 
computer ones?” 

strongly believe that any one artist using two entirely 
different processes will achieve two sets results that are 
entirely different the purely visual level. The only liaison 
between the two sets outputs constituted the 
aesthetico-formal handling the visual material and, 
all present, the motive substratum activity 
(“what makes the artist 

Since the purpose this collection papers 
present some personal views about (computer) art, will 
devote the remainder this letter, dear Editor, the 
exemplification the above concepts with the particular 
case own works. 


The motive substratum artistic activity con- 
stituted the fascination that natural forms have always 
exerted me: from the extremely complex organic forms, 
rich attributes the geometric forms 
crystalline formations and the forms the invisible 
fields around us. mental projection the visual ele- 
ments that ‘describe’ natural forms constituted not 
their ‘substance,’ their being objects, but the surfaces 
that delimit such forms. other words, not interested 
recognizable individual objects, but recognizable 
forms, they organic, straight-line geometric, free- 
flowing geometric. 

From this follows that the selection the processes 
for the rendition such forms will conditioned the 
forms themselves. Furthermore, the intrinsic capabilities 
the process will only focus the typology forms 
amenable description the process. 

end letter, dear Editor, with the mention first 
one-man show. The show was exhibiting computer and 
non-computer work. The computer work was featuring 
black and white geometric forms, the non-computer work 
exhibited multicolor organic-like forms. Obvious con- 
trasts. But the remark “They look like the works 
two different artists” sounded novel and amusing. The 
schizoidal element only superficial (like the one 
between the artist and the scientist). The ‘motor’ one, 
and its formal creative apparatus. 

best regards, 
Aldo Giorgini 


West Lafayette, Indiana 
September 1975 


became involved with computer graphics 1967 

chance when was graphic design graduate student 

Yale Art Schooi following undergraduate education 

Physics Princeton University. worked for 

Bell Telephone Labs then and continued afterwards 

consultant computer graphics for years. 

art background life long interest and activity plus 

AAR graduate professional study Yale Art School. have 


been continuously working, teaching, writing, and study- 


ing this area since then. The computer tool 
MARCU simulation and stimulation realities. times can 
become useful ‘partner,’ but only limited ways. the 


essential conceptual work and the programming. 
computer-assisted works are definitely related non- 
computer art, both mine and others, especially work 
conceptual art. When ‘work’ begins have schematic 
notions and images. These are finalized programming 
and viewing develop. Some work could done 
without the assistance computer, but would very 
time-consuming and difficult. Others, like conceptual 
environments (e.g. ‘Cybernetic 1971-3) must 
use computer graphics systems real-ized. have the 
ability own programming (Fortran, APL). Luckily, 
too, because not millionaire and can not afford 
fleet programming slaves. Also, luckily, like 


Photoprint, 1972 


BAB CAB FAB JAB KAB LAB LAB 


make and learn from own mistakes. think much 
computer art (so-called) the sixties and even today 
constipated, trivial dabbling merely ornamentation (see 
article ‘Computer Art: Towards Second Generation,’ 
Print Review, No. Pratt Graphic Center, New York, 
1973). Nevertheless, feel will have much greater 
impact the future terminal/display equipment falls 
into the hands everyone—both the consumer/viewer 
and the artist. plan continue work computer 
graphics art form and recommend that (computer 
graphics equipment and education) made available 
others, especially art and design schools. 


Cybernetic Environments* 


writing was born, man struggled find ways 
compress his spatial, temporal, wraparound experience 
into abstract, easily reproducible marks specially 
prepared flat surfaces. From essentially pictographic 
images bearing iconic resemblance things and 
actions, abstract forms evolved provide man with more 
complex conceptions and more intricately structured 
cosmos. After two millennia relatively stable symbols 
and 500 years their mechanical reproduction, the forms 
writing, the ideas expressible them are 
rapidly. this moment, with the aid electronic media 
and computer-assisted displays, the semiotic parameters 
verbi-vocovisual communication are revitalizing long 
unused possibilities and discovering new combinations 
elements for restating the inner and outer worlds man’s 
experience. 

the late nineteenth century, the poet Mallarme 
dreamed language and language space which 
everything could expressive. With music ideal 
abstract formal system, conceived and began 
make concrete poetry which marks, their form and 
position two-dimensional field, well their verbal 
denotations and connotations, contributed visual, 
spatial construction which one must see well read 
and hear. the middle this century, the international 
concrete poetry movement expanded and restructured 
the visions 19th century innovators like Mallarme and 
Apollinaire. Joined electronic, computer-assisted com- 
munication, the forms visually oriented expression are 
beginning bloom with new array ideas, new 
dimension abstract symbol communication and all- 
encompassing environmental impact. 


the Computer Graphics Laboratory Princeton 
University, have developed series cybernetic land- 
scapes utilizing programs Fortran for PDP-10 digital 
computer and Evans and Southerland LDS-1 inter- 
active computer graphics display system. The cathode ray 
tube device permits images stereo and color well 
two-dimensional pictures which can altered smoothly 
and instantaneously. 

These landscapes simulated space provide 
concrete, palpable, spatial experience abstract visual 
forms and conventional verbal and typographic elements. 
such, the space functions poem-drawing environ- 
ment. Instead the white field and black letterforms 
traditional written symbols, the field the deep, black 
space night, and the symbols have been transformed 


article first appeared the book, Soft Where 
reprinted permission the artist and WEST COAST POETRY REVIEW, 
1127 Codel Way, Reno, Nevada, 89503 


sequence from ‘Cybernetic Landscape 1971-1973. 


| + | ( | } 


into glowing filaments light—a direct extension the 
desire which Mallarme, Gomringer and 
others cherished. The ‘objects’ are diagrams for objects, 
the letterforms are diagrams for sound/ideas. All are 
dematerialized form. Computer graphics effectively 
interfaces with man The images have mass, 
physical substance sense, but they are perceivable 
and meaningful the viewer. Most importantly, the state- 
ments appear space. The 
viewer/reader/participant longer bound the flat 
surface the incised, written printed sheet. using 
the interactive equipment and knobs control 
the display), the viewer may look and wander through 
this aesthetically composed symbolic space will. 

The illustrations show various views Cybernetic 
Landscape The small diagrams the top indicate 
location the viewer the groundplane (dot the 
square) and direction view along the groundplane (line 
the circle). Bars indicate height above the groundplane 
and vertical viewing angle. The space organized with 
hortatory slogans the Consumptive Good Life dis- 
tributed along sacred axis. certain locations, other 
visual elements are found the space away from the 
main path, and the viewer may explore these desired. 
The simple forms near the center the space symbolize 
the the viewer—the vertical presence moving about 
the horizontal landscape plane. one quadrant the 
space kinetic piece, whirlwind rotating 
silently with pulsating, varying rhythm independent 
the position movement. Within the space 
diagrammatic ‘person’ who moves randomly along the 
groundplane. This creature both a‘mirror’ the viewer 
and indicator that other viewers, other human beings, 
could connected this space, and could 
‘meet’ the present viewer ‘inside’ this electronically 
created environment. The space cyclically infinite. Each 
side wraps around electronically the opposite side 
the viewer moving off one edge would emerge instantly 
into the space again the opposite edge. signal the 
beginning/end the journey, canopy 
points/stars/periods hovers space one terminus 
the path. 

means this computer-assisted display, new rela- 
tionships—new meanings—emerge, depending the 
position, movement, and viewing direction the 
viewer/reader/participant. objects light, the 
elements the space convey distinct and forceful 
presence combining the mystery dreams, the awe- 
someness the starry night and the wonder the 
modern, man-made urban environment seen night. 
Instead the strict topology the stele, codex and later 
book forms, the linking elements can richer and more 
complex; yet achieved through visually simple 
elements: points, lines and planes. These visual com- 
ponents our familiar forms have been transmuted into 
light and space. The reader travels through the text 
context. 


Princeton, New Jersey 
September 1975 


Various views ‘Cybernetic Landscape 


SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS_ 


‘The City Sleeps, but Someone Watching’, photoprint; 15x19 inches, 
1972. 


| 
EEEEE 
GGGGGGG 


eee 


Photoprint, 1972. 


COLETTE 
BANGERT 


CHARLES 


BANGERT 


COMPUTER GRASS 
NATURAL GRASS 


Jeff and have been making two-dimensional art for 
long time. been making paintings and drawings since 
childhood and was educated artist. Jeff has been 
thinking what mainematicians think and writing down 
since childhood and was educated mathematician 
and artist. the 1960’s Jeff became involved with 
computers and their programming and with using the 
computer help people solve their problems. 

When the University Kansas was given plotter 
1967, Jeff was asked test it. began think draw- 
ing lines with ways that found visually interesting. 
Together, had enough common background and 
experience begin use the computer graphically. 
Together draw with the computer and sign the 
drawings CB—Colette-Charles Bangert. 

The subject all work has been landscape. The 
elements both the computer work and hand work are 
often repetitive, like leaves, trees, grass and other natural 
landscape elements are. There sameness and similarity, 
yet everything changing. Landscape yields both texture 
and form. The pictorial form usually all-over, with non- 
focus details which form patterns, since feel these 
essential properties landscape. field has center, 
and not really flat, use flat areas. The form 
grass grass, leaves leaves, what I’m exploring. 


‘Blue Circled Through Black’ (continuous line study) 
inches. 1972. Computer; colored inks paper. 


Vg 
/ 


WNW 


inches. 1970. Computer; inks paper. 


‘Large Landscape: Ochre and Black’ 


‘Contained Contours 
inches. 197. Computer; ink paper. 


Landscape form itself the subject. Line form. Grass 
form. Grass also random and random natural 
computer facility. Computer grass natural grass. 

and land forms. learn from what see and draw. 
What hand-eye draws different from what the 
computer draws. computer helps offering new visual 
ideas. These ideas turn enrich new hand work which 
generates additional ideas which extends thinking 
about computer generated lines. The learning circle 
closes itself. The computer and Jeff force 
verbalization and conception what the making 
graphic drawing really about. And turn force Jeff 
think about the programming serious aesthetic draw- 
ing problems. Together try define what makes 
drawing would like see. Without conscious under- 
standing what drawing could not use the 
computer drawing medium. 

line carves out form white sheet paper, line 
carves out implied visual space. line abstract 
element which have seen and explored. line grass 
the edge leaf, shape, symbol. The line does not 
exist, can drawn. 

When found that there was device, plotter which 
could draw lines, and device, computer, which could 
perform the calculations for driving the plotter resulting 
lines only partly thought beforehand, founda 
very exciting but very difficult drawing medium. Using 
computer-plotter extends hand-eye-head. The com- 
puter draws, eyes see, hand draws, the computer 
productive cycle. Computer drawn lines enrich hand 
lines which turn enrich computer drawn lines 

Jeff and use the computer traditional drawing 
medium. The resulting drawings are seen, hang 
wall, communicate. They are not just examples 
computer technology, not just geometry, not just mathe- 
matics. ask this new medium questions and get new 
(and old) answers. But some the answers were there 
from the beginning ... landscape. That possible use 
mathematical formalism and pure geometry while 
attempting humanistic exploration one the 


primary advantages the use the computer draw- 
ing medium. 

Now beginning see what line about. see 
that can choose lines, aone big sweep the 
arm line, coiled uncoiled line, crossing lines, 
spiraled lines, decorative lines, random lines, and it’s all 
the same line. Where and how these lines are placed and 
colored make the drawing what is, that composition 
perhaps the truly difficult element the making 
drawing. Now have really think about what doing 
while drawing order for Jeff write program deal 
with what can second nature. This thinking has 
made the making the hand work much clearer. 
consider each drawing element independent 
element. This artificial. Yet, this artificiality precisely 
one aspect the use mathematical attitude—the 
separation and isolation individual elements 
problem. Our computer graphic efforts have shown 
how complex even the most simple meaningful hand made 
drawing is. addition making drawings using the 
computer, appear finding out just what the 
making drawing about regardless its medium. 

me, the impact the computer the art drawing 
will profound. and Jeff and computer can 
formulate visual ideas which communicate more clearly 
ourselves and others than just alone can hand, 
certainly the effect other artists will even 
more profound. new kind renaissance beginning. 
All those now working visually with the computer are 
Giottos announcing the coming new visual age. Just 
the technical development the camera changed 
people’s visual experiences and changed art during the 
last hundred years, the computer will affect the visual 
dimensions people’s lives. The pre-camera, pre- 
computer Chinese artist took life-time understanding 
order make one meaningful ink filled brushstroke. 
may take life-time develop computer program 
make one new communicating pen line which 
for us. 


Lawrence, Kansas 
September 1975 


BEN 
LAPOSKY 


OSCILLONS: 
ELECTRONIC ABSTRACTIONS 


work computer art form oscillography, the 
results which have called ‘Oscillons’ ‘Electronic 
Abstractions.’ These are composed combinations 
basic electronic wave forms displayed acathode ray 
oscilloscope and photographed. Color compositions are 
achieved means special filter arrangements. The 
resulting art works are presented photographic exhibi- 
tions, kinetic oscilloscope displays, light boxes, movies. 

The relationship the oscillons computer art that 
the basic waveforms are analogue the type used 
analogue computer systems. The oscillons have been 
recognized being the first major development this 
field abstract art creations, and the first widely 
exhibited and published America and abroad (over 216 
exhibitions, 160 publications since 1952). 

got into oscillographic art through long-time interest 
art design derived from mathematics and physics. 
had worked with geometric design, analytic and other 
algebraic curves, ‘magic line’ patterns from magic 
number arrangements, harmonograph machine tracings, 
pendulum patterns, and on. The oscilloscope seemed 
design and with controlled effects produce even 
newer forms not feasible with previous techniques. 

interest other kinds art was some extent 
abstract geometric painting, cubism, synchronism and 
futurism. The oscillons are related the newer develop- 
ments art, Lumia (light) art, computer art, abstract 
motion pictures, video synthesizer (TV) art, and laser 
displays, such Laserium. 


Oscillographic art might considered kind 
visual music, the basic waveforms resemble sound 
waves. used sine waves, saw tooths, square waves, 
triangular waves, and others various combinations, 
modulations, envelopes, sweeps, etc. Oscillons usually 
are not accidental naturally occurring forms, but are 
composed the selection and control the oscilloscope 
settings and varied input circuitry. used especially 
modified oscilloscopes for this work, well some 
own specifically designed electronic instruments. 

The oscillons may created without the use 
analogue digital computer system. may even 
possible, course, imagine compose some 
these patterns without the use the electron beam 
tracing them the cathode ray tube. However, the elec- 
tronic method greatly extends the possibilities ob- 
taining new and aesthetically pieasing figures. The 
oscillons are intended form creative fine art. 


‘Oscillon 


Objections are sometimes made that this and other 
kinds computer art are‘machine impersonal, 
even inhuman. this may appear but 
obvious that the machines instruments that form 
them are the products imagination and planning, and 
some previous initial point, the work human hands. The 
output conceived and controlled human intelli- 
gence, and the results evaluated personal aesthetic 
standards. the computer produce art, seems 
that the ability for must programmed into it. 


Cherokee, lowa 
August 1975 


P 


LESLIE 


Computer Art, many new endeavors, has reached 
plateau stagnation after exhilarating start full 
promise. The computer specialists who first played with 
these possibilities soon exhausted their ideas and their 
interest. They merely did what was easy and obvious with 
their hardware and their even more limited software. Since 
they were first the results were unique and interesting, but 
generally ‘artless,’ and not very innovative. 

The first wave artists—really only small ripple—that 
came the computer expected miracles from without 
serious effort learning and exploring and creation 
their part. The results were way even more dis- 
appointing, except the cases where the artist was 
already doing which could directly assisted 
computer techniques, such modular art. Some 
instead succeeded prettifying the output their tech- 
nical collaborator, without any understanding the 
processes involved. The rest were confined existing 
programs and repeated the technicians and each other’s 
work. Those first class artists that deigned inquire into 
the possibilities were quickly discouraged the lack 
convenient control over the computer, the difficulty 
communicating visually with it, and the amount effort 
required really well. 

Today are left with small number people from 
both sides, each whom aware the long term effort 
needed exploit the potential. The promise great 
ever, but, usual, requires more application and 
ingenuity and application than realized. The artists, 
and especially the art students, are willing learn pro- 
gramming and some mathematics, and learn think 
algorithmic, process oriented manner. More important- 
ly, view, they are ready transcend the tech- 
nological art far pursued, and learn something the 
underlying scientific ideas. [Applying any new tech- 
nology slavishly results imitative work, often fore- 
shadowed visionary artists long before the new tech- 
nology. (Compare Picasso’s drawings with some our 
transformations, such BIKINI SHIFTED).] the 
new concepts and ideas, the new ways thinking 
provided sciences that will provide this. 
referring our enriched understanding system, 
structure, randomness and process well the very 
process communication and language, and the more 


realistic accounts the methods discovery the 
sciences and the arts. 

have developed Interdisciplinary course the 
Concepts the Information Sciences, which ex- 
plore many the concepts which come from cybernetics 
and computer science, communication theory and 
linguistics, general systems research and morphology, 
mathematics and operations research, etc. 

The technical computer specialists, the other hand, 
have become aware the potential contribution the 
artists, develop respect for their pattern perceiving and 
pattern generating abilities, for their trained sensitivity 
the exploration novelty, their ability select what 
most significant; indeed—at their best—to make concrete 
the future before happens, before can define it, 
formalize and verbalize it. may well end the next 
few years with few individuals who have mastered both 
sides reasonably well. Programmer-artists and artist-pro- 
grammers. Collaboration and multimedia are not impossi- 
ble, only extremely hard and rarely successful. But then, 
most activity ambition, high risk, innovative 
nature. 

course, both should have awareness what has 
been already done, and what directions have been pointed 
to. own book (Computer Art), which does just this 
still making the rounds the publishers, and the book 
introducing some the information theoretic ideas 
applied this field the German language 
Frieder Nake, Springer- 
Verlag). Though Franke’s book covers too large area 
too superficially, the only book English can recom- 
mend (“Computer Graphics, Computer Art,” H.W. Franke, 
Phaidon). any case exciting new ideas and results 
have appeared the last few years; the next wave 
creativity this field probably still few years away. 

What ask the artist use the science and tech- 
nology explore and expand our reality, and make state- 
ments significance today’s tortured but expectant 
world. filled pages and pages program- 
matic notes, enough aims for lifetime. Now time 
raise the standards, stop applauding the fact that 
art with the aid acomputer all, and apply critical 
judgment our results any other works art. The 


‘Bikini Shifted’ 


| | 


BEAVER SCALED 


, 


<< 


‘BABEL 


‘SCALE 


hardware and software are becoming more flexible and 
less expensive. Our own Dynamic Graphics Group, for 
example, developing, under the leadership Ron 
Baecker, with both high speed line display and 
digital color video tube, with sophisticated software for 
interactive dynamic graphics for artistic and simulation 
purposes. are now making arrangement with the 
local art college for few each ‘adopt’ one art 
student work with us, sit our courses and develop 
themselves their own way gradually. 

own work, all donea few years ago, has tried make 
novel beginning the exploration controlled random- 
ness, various distortions and transformations. These 
were neither systematic enough scientific, nor did 
they try achieve the ultimate exploitation their 
medium really good art. They merely tried point 
the way toward new possibilities. From the still graphics 
shifted animation, and some successful films were 
produced our system number artists working 
with the help programmer. was not sufficiently 
involved with this work, merely the producer allowing 
happen. soon our equipment and software are 
advanced enough undertake ambitious concepts easily, 
intend combine developing understanding 
graphic simulation methods and the new concepts 
feedback, structure, system, randomness and try 
create new combination science and art. 

background was mathematics, physics and 
meteorology training, and for the last years com- 
puters, learned the job. early interest the 
possibility computer art (first paper the subject 
1964) led become academic, and computer 
graphics research, well many other fascinating ideas 
and people. There constant struggle within 
between the symbolic mathematical, the visual artistic and 
the verbal literary modes expression, with the verbal 
winning the moment. have fascination with the 
visual possibilities, especially seen the incredible 
complexity and variety nature—combined within many 
organizing aspects. However, express this is—at least 
for me—a difficult, time consuming and indirect process. 

need find those things which uniquely suit these 
new media, which can only expressed with their help, 
and thus make the effort worthwhile. look for the fresh 
wind ideas from the new wave art students who will 
literate the information sciences, and conversant with 
interactive computers and the new processes which they 
can help visually explicate. 


Toronto, Canada 
July 1975 


TONY 
LONGSON 


SIGHT MOTIVATION 


Sight what interests me—in particular the richness 
being able see this what makes make 
things. 


‘THEMES and VARIATIONS’, inches. 


The constructions make are like drawings space. 
They are made simple elements, such lines and 
dots clear sheets material, which direct the way 
see, and perhaps show new things about the way 
can see. Within these main aims there are other areas that 
interest me; the ambiguity things that are flat yet appear 
three dimensional, and far more exciting, things 
which know are space which appear flat. also 
like the distinction between pattern and not pattern; for 
example, recently been trying spread small dots 
within square order achieve kind ‘grainy’ 
surface. very difficult, tried several random 
processes, but eventually had determine precisely the 
pattern individual dots that strong pattern groups 
were apparent. 

This interest sight motivation stems from the time 
studied Fine Art Reading University. Terry Pope intro- 
duced his ‘extended parallax’ glasses which, 
increasing the distance between our eyes, dramatically 
heightens our impression the space surrounding the 
objects are looking at. went build glasses which 
reduce the distance between our eyes, and was equally 
impressed with the new reading space that they offered. 
occurred then that there were many different 
possible configurations two eyes which might provide 
exciting visual results. However, was not until came 
across computer generated stereo pairs that realized 


had relatively simple way checking all the alterna- 
tives. 


— 


— 


L 


=) 


‘GROUP THEORY GRID’, 1972; 60x60x12 centimeters, PERSPEX. 


having turned computers with that specific 
problem began see many ways which they could 
extend work. First all was interested getting the 
computer draw three dimensional objects. set out 
design objects which could rotated into certain posi- 
tions where they would appear flat. was 
interesting exercise made aware the many con- 
ventions adopt, such perspective, overlapping, and 
shading depict space flat surface. course 
first drawings were simple isometric projections. went 
exactly the reverse—that make three dimen- 
sional objects which appear flat from certain view- 
points. There was something attractive about seeing this 
unfamiliar situation. 

Initially thought was enough have someone else 
the programming. Now use computers many aspects 
work (supported for two years the Arts Council 
and Hatfield Polytechnic) and find that need have 
control over every stage the process. This means pro- 
gramming FORTRAN, BASIC, and POP2 (more that 
later), and being able manipulate the various machines. 
Hatfield’s main computer PDP-10, but there also 
small computer with display system and light pen 
which connected the 10. The majority work 
starts this visual display, though not end itself, 
rather experiment towards making drawings three 
dimensions. latest sequence work has been 
investigate certain the thresholds the way see. 
enjoy visual information that will waver between two 
states, but never both the same time. wanted 
explore information that was highly structured, and yet 
times seemed haphazard. chose very small white 
dots the elements seen against black back- 


ground. The geometry was make perfect matrix 
dots within twenty twenty square, though the dots 
could any one the four separate layers which 
made the drawing, that geometry would only visible 
from face on. (Because the diminishing effect 
perspective, made the dots and the matrix slightly larger 
function their increased distance.) Added this 
structure, made the arrangement dots symmetric 
about both horizontal and vertical axes (would that 
obvious the piece work?). The square matrix was the 
only structuring that wanted apparent the work. 
From every other viewpoint the dots themselves had 
have this grainy quality, that is, have nolocal groupings 
which would recognizable strong patterns. This, 
course, the most simple explanation something that 
has seen. The visual response that object like this 
solicits something that cannot easily described. 
the end, the whole more than the sum the parts. 

make the work, I’ve been using numerically con- 
trolled three axis milling machine, which accepts informa- 
tion co-ordinates paper tape, and cuts correspond- 
ing lines dots into the component sheets clear 
perspex. provides the necessary accuracy. 
mistakes are far easier detect visual information that 
highly structured. 

Well, there are significant problems using computer 
creative ends; one obvious one that the common 
output devices produce images with that characteristical- 
dull quality about them. Also find that each construc- 
tion demands totally new approach, and that rather goes 
against one the fundamentals computer, the ability 
repeat the same task reliably many times over; but 
see their greatest limitation creativity possibly also 


| + 


‘DOT MATRIX’, PERSPEX; 100x100x10 centimeters, May, 1975. 


the very area greatest potential. this—a 
computer needs have the problem closely described, 
and there are ingredients creativity which cannot 
described. 

The potential, then, simulate the creative process 
itself. How can that? First have isolate those 
aspects creativity which know about; simply 
recording them from own methods. The computer has 
have this information and non-numeric languages are 
available for expressing (POP2 one them). 
Heuristics tested method for ‘best bet’ decision 
making where there are too many choices investigate. 
And there the kind associative memory system which 
reinforces itself over period ‘experience’ right and 
wrong choices. Hopefully this memory common 
extended sequence investigation. Given this situation, 
perhaps can discover some the mystery creative 
thinking. anticipate one serious problem. the computer 
does make that kind intuitive leap that associate with 
being creative, how will recognize for what is? 

least learning more about own working 
methods—at best the computer may assist decision 
making naturally creative way. 


Hatfield, Herts, England 
September 1975 


‘WIRE 1972; 
48x40x4 inches, PERSPEX. 
the collection the CON- 
GRESSGEBOUN, THE HAGUE, 
HOLLAND. 


| 
. 
4 2 
— 


PETER 
STRUYCKEN 


SPLASH 1972/1974* 


*This article composed extracts taken from publications documenting 
the artist’s work. 


the course the last few centuries, particularly 
Europe, the plastic arts have found their 
personal, strictly individual sphere. the first place 
people sought and still seek express their emotions 
therein. The element inspiration, intuition, vision 
whatever men wish call it, was and essential inde- 
finable. Art felt something comparable living 
organism, the substance which can defined, but the 
essence which escapes every analysis. Yet true and 
recently the realization has grown stronger, spite all 
theories, that painting sculpture speaks the 


first place through visual means; visual means which are 
arranged the artist specific interrelationship. The 
artist has worked this way and still does this more less 
intuitively, that this arranging and handling the 
material his personal temperament revealed. Some 
artists, however, show increasing tendency banish 
the personal element from art order achieve art 
which determined its own particular set rules. Such 
art would placed above subjective preferences 
concepts such beautiful and ugly, because the work 
art becomes the result indisputable, mathematical 
logic, which can only qualified true. However, such 
work art should not labeled inhuman, cerebral 
sterile, since the longing for such unassailable formula 
very human; for was not this Plato’s ideal beauty? 

have searched for the elementary means expres- 
sion and have formulated findings set proposi- 
tions. purpose show that form and colour can 
correlated mathematically; the result not only 
complete unity, but the interrelation form and colour 
can calculated well. This might great 
importance when applied town planning, architecture 
and industrial design. Thus, town planning and 
architectural projects, the elements which have 
certain relationship size and form, might 
possible apply colours which their strength and tone 
acquire corresponding relationship through which 
complete unity form and colour can accomplished. 

‘Splash’ program which allows the exploration 
colour. The computer programme itself just number 
logically formulated conditions. Their character for- 
malistic, they themselves having content meaning. 
When the computer programme implemented, the 
conditions cause changes the context previously 
established number numerical values. These values are 
substituted colour values when changes which they 
undergo during the course the programme are made 
visible. number, therefore, functions code for 
particular colour. The number colours corresponds 
the number numerical values. The result series 


colour patterns which have undergone exactly the same 
changes the numbers the computer programme. For 
the sake convenience the description the conditions 
relevant for the programme always refers ‘colours’ and 
‘colour patterns.’ These terms can, desired, replaced 
‘numbers’ and ‘number patterns.’ The idea deter- 
mine the quality change, which can big small, 
sudden gradual. The difference between the colour 
pattern far more important than the colour patterns 
themselves; for this difference which indicates the 
kind and degree change (which the idea this 
programme), the colour patterns simply appearing 
‘pretty’ not ‘pretty.’ 


order have rough idea the way which the 
differences between the colour patterns are caused, 
can make the comparison stone thrown into pond. 
Concentric ripples emanate from the place where the 
stone hits the water, the ‘splashdown.’ The larger the 
ripples become, the weaker the wave. The effect the 


splash the water thus strongest the centre, 
decreasing towards the edge. This image splash- 
down with ripples decreasing strength can applied 
pattern. Here, the centre the referred 
the ‘splashdown,’ the colours arranged con- 
centrically around the splashdown representing the re- 
sulting (square) ripples. the first example (see fig. 1), the 
area indicated the black lines the pattern colours 
which undergo change. means kring (Dutch for ripple) 
and plons (Dutch for splash). The grey lines indicate the 
position the ripples which are formed around the 
splashdown but which are outside the actually visible 
colour pattern. The colour change naturally strongest 
the splashdown. The colours the ripples around the 
splashdown change ever-lessening extent. The 
colour change weakest the outmost ripple, the one 
which furthest away from splashdown. This far 
the comparison between disturbed surface water and 
changed colour pattern goes. 

The computer programme which changes colours the 
manner just described provides number transitional 
states between previously (arbitrarily) established 
colour pattern serving initial state and another 
previously (arbitrarily) established colour pattern whichis 
the final state, ‘target.’ The changes occur such 
way that the initial colour pattern corresponds 
increasing degree with the final one. important condi- 
tion that large number colours possible 
change once one step. When longer possible 
for the colour pattern change whole one go, the 
programme permits part the colour pattern change. 
When this longer possible either, the last possibility 
for one colour per state change. These various phases 
change, together with their effect the colour 
programme, form the basis the programme. 


Amsterdam, Holland 
August 1975 


EDWARD 
IHNATOWICZ 


TOWARDS 
THINKING MACHINE 


great deal discussion among computer-artists 
centred around the question whether the computer 
should treated tool medium, with some 
purists insisting that the term ‘computer-art’ should 
reserved for the latter. The distinction may appear 
those artists whose inspiration comes from outside the 
world computing and who use the computer simply for 
convenience from those whose ideas have originated 
result computing experience. 

own involvement with computing began very much 
matter convenience with large, mobile sculpture 
being half completed before the possibility using 
computer was even considered, but the resulting experi- 
ence has left thoroughly entrenched the computing 
field and apt regard any present-day artist unfamiliar 
with computers with some concern! 

The sculpture question was built for Philips, the elec- 
trical firm, for their permanent technological exhibition 
Eindhoven, Holland, and was called the Senster. was 
completed 1971 and took three years build. 
consisted sensing head comprising moving array 
microphones and two close-range radar transceivers 
borne the end foot long, articulated arm, 
powered electro-hydraulics and controlled 
computer. The computer provided the machine with 
certain behaviour pattern which the tried 
determine the location any sound the vicinity well 
the presence any rapid physical movement and then 
use this information generate movement the 
whole structure. the sound was persistent and below 
certain intensity the movement was towards the sound, 
away from was too loud accompanied any 
violent gestures. This simple strategy resulted, neverthe- 
less, very complex behaviour due partly the 
cated acoustics the exhibition building and partly the 
behaviour the visitors who frequently surrounded the 
exhibit large numbers and the case the younger 
ones, with sustained din. The atmosphere around the 
sculpture was much more like that zoo than art 
exhibition and sure that the majority visitors would 
have been surprised learn that the constructor this 
machine had any pretensions being artist. 


They may well have been right, since the title artist 
accolade rather than qualification, but certainly 
aims were artistic, background. had standard 
art-school education (Ruskin-Oxford) and any tech- 
nology know entirely self-taught and merely sufficient 
carry out designs. The involvement artists 
science and technology not new phenomenon since 
artists, like scientists, have been traditionally involved 
investigations nature, more specifically, those 
aspects nature which the current technology make 
accessible. 

Speculation the general question what dis- 
tinguishes the artistic approach from the scientific one are 
seldom profitable but perhaps avery personal view such 
distinction worth making view the very tech- 
nological nature work. 

The scientists, seems me, tend view the 
vast, natural system, operating according absolute and 
immutable laws which they try discover measure- 
ment and deduction, and they consider their own 
existence being consequence. They are aware 
the fact that all our knowledge reducible explana- 
tions relationships within floating frame reference 
and are concerned about the difficulty establishing 
firm datum. contrast, the essence the artistic 
approach accept oneself the only reference point 
and instead explaining the world, demonstrate the 
way which appears one. This not say that such 
attitude conscious one and exists all only 
assumption. borne out, however, the ease with 
which the work most the artists the past can 
accurately placed within its period and locality and even 
attributed aspecific person. would seem that the artist 
acts here like kind anthropomorphic filter, choosing 
from the infinite number possible aspects reality 
those currently accepted ‘normal’ with, perhaps, the 
individual deviations which one and the same time 
identify him and constitute, often, his chief contribution. 
This ‘normal’ view reality changes continually and is, 
course, frequently affected the current scientific and 
technological preoccupations and discoveries and thus 
easily detectable the contemporary art. Consider, for 
example, the impact art the discovery perspec- 
tive, printing, photography the Newtonian theory 
colour. 

the present time the effect digital computing our 
appreciation nature fundamental importance and 
the area where the possibilities offers are, me, the 
most exciting that better understanding natural 
methods control development, growth, movement 
and behaviour plants, animals and ourselves. The tech- 
niques digital programming have greatly increased our 
appreciation natural shapes and processes because 
instead merely marvelling their complexity, beauty 
functionality, are now position consider the 
methods and techniques employed nature their 
generation. The popularity Conway’s Life game reflects 
this interest, many programmes written generate 
shapes reminiscent trees, plants and flowers. 

Even more intriguing the possibility investigating 
and simulating the behaviour complete systems, both 
natural and artificial and their responses changing 
environments because this leads directly into the realm 
perception which, mind, the central problem 
intelligent life. 

great deal has been said about the research field 
known artificial intelligence, most uncompli- 
mentary and deservedly view the many ex- 
aggerated claims and unfulfilled promises; nevertheless 
the understanding understanding must remain one 
the most inspiring goals our civilization. This very 


new and uncharted area and many claims have been laid 
there such scientific disciplines neurology, psy- 
chology, linguistics, statistics and various computer 
sciences, the point where the ambitions any artists 
enter the field may appear not actually 
presumptuous. The fact is, however, that one has yet 
proved the suitability any particular discipline for this 
type investigation and, view the paucity practical 
results, the game must considered still open. 

should like put forward doubt biased, view 
the difficulties which approach 
produces. The difficulties are large extent semantic 
nature and have with the fact that scientists are fond 
definitions, and that there are satisfactory defini- 
tions for any the relevant notions. Notions such 
learning, perception, image, memory, cognition, knowl- 
edge, not mention intelligence itself, are not any 
absolute sense definable because they are all descrip- 
tions relationships and attributes natural systems and 
their environments. They can demonstrated and 
appreciated more easily than defined proved. can 
accept that possible way approaching the problem 
cognition through the study the behaviour artificial 
systems capable simulating natural behaviour, then 
must admit that there are very few guide lines for the 
design such systems. Under such conditions least 


> 


possible that open-ended, pragmatic approach 
may value. 

What suggesting here that even cannot 
describe intelligence can certainly recognize intelli- 
gent behaviour and that the characteristics such 
behaviour are such make them, theory least, 
demonstrable artificial system. 


There commonly held view that even the use 
models cognitive systems necessity, their actual, 
physical construction not, since any such model can 
adequately simulated computer. accepted, such 
argument would seriously undermine the usefulness 
the proposed artistic approach since especially the 
area design and construction physical shapes and 
control and interpretation physical movement that the 
intuitive approach might expected value. 
Computer simulation has serious drawback, however, 
that neglects the possibility interpretation sensory 
data means physical, ie. mechanical interaction, and 
there are good reasons for believing that such inter- 
action the key element the process perception. Itis 
difficult, fact, talk about the process perception 
and quite impossible demonstrate without reference 
some physical system, since the perception are talk- 
ing about not the perception abstract notions but 
physical entities; clearly impossible demonstrate 


SENSTER’, 1970. 


awareness physical entity within purely conceptual 
model. 

Perception can thought the process which 
any cognitive system, natural artificial, informed 
about the state its environment. not measurable 
quantity and its existence any system can only 
established evaluation its responses the 
changes that environment. Such responses are easiest 
detect they take the form mechanical motion and 
this one argument for construction mechanical 
models. Another, and more important one that 
physical motion may be, any case, prerequisite 
perception. 

consider the possibilities artificial simulation 
perception, then technique measurement com- 
parison elementary candidate. This because 
perceive become aware some property like size, 
colour, temperature weight some object part the 
environment the entire environment and this only 
possible this property undergoes perceptible change 
another example available. (If all the objects 
ever saw were coloured blue should not aware 


that fact.) Differences must measurable and thus the 
process perception basically one measurement 
comparison. The problem vastly more complex, 
course, but the concept comparison useful one 
because raises the question natural standards for 
what considered normal. autonomous artificial 
system should not have rely preprogrammed 
hard-wired standards but capable establishing them 
independently. such case the only immutable stand- 
ards available are some aspects its own structure. 
conceivable, for instance, that system capable 
moving itself bodily and sensing the force exerted the 
process might capable forming anotion weight 
comparing this force with that required to, say, remove 
obstacle. Similarly, concept length could estab- 
lished noting the distance travelled the range 
movement limb. 

Conceptualization is, course, another problem but 
can thought similar way and considered the 
result correlation two more types perception 
relating the same object entity. If, for example, 
system can establish definite correspondence between 
set visual data and set tactile data, possibility 
exists formulating concept idea the object 
which these data appertain. Visual and mechanical 
perceptions are eminently suited this role because they 
overlap the all-important area spatial and kinematic 
characteristics. Visual sensing informs addition 
about the optical properties such colour and 
transparency while the mechanical one about mass and 
dynamics, but both can inform about sizes, shapes and 
movements the same objects. this way aconceptcan 
seen not merely perceptual record, but ameans 
complementing sensory data that, for instance, 
image known object may elicited from its tactile 
exploration. 

The important practical conclusion that can drawn 
from such considerations that the most basic type 
properties that any cognitive system must capable 
perceiving the mechanical one since through the 
consideration the mechanical attributes that objects are 
most readily distinguished. The perception visual 
images which the most common form perception 
think would seem much less important and only 
possible conjunction with mechanical sensing. 

One property mechanical information which dis- 
tinguishes from most the others that cannot 


obtained passively. According the quantum theory 
every form measurements disturbs the quantity being 
measured, but never apparent when applied 
mechanics. clearly impossible, for instance, 
determine the stiffness spring without moving it. 
appears, therefore, that the ability perceive, least 
the ability learn perceive, depends the ability 
voluntarily disturb the flow sensory information 
measured way which generally requires some form 
physical movement. 

This line argument can extended include other 
types information and especially important the 
case vision which can shown impossible 
systems incapable physical motion. This well known 
the psychologists who can demonstrate that cats, for 
instance, fail develop ability see prevented from 
moving during specific learning period. That this should 
easy appreciate when consider that vision 
general, and the case pictures always, process 
which three-dimensional reality reconstituted from its 
two-dimensional optical projection. Clearly such 
process can only take place system capable 


appreciating the properties solid objects and, 
have seen, this requires ability move. 

The area interaction between optical and mechanical 
systems fact where the most exciting developments 
can expected, but the present moment the data 
acquisition processing expertise the two fields 
grossly out balance. the one hand have very 
highly developed television technology, and the other 
assortment electro-mechanical transducers and 
data loggers designed for simple measurements. What 
required method producing mechanical image 
object rather like image which form our mind 
when, for example, picking apple the dark. Tech- 
niques for obtaining this type information are yet 
developed and will probably require the construction 
manipulator arms with sophisticated control systems 
employing either large number parallel force and 
vibration sensors, precisely controlled sequence 
exploratory movements, both. The even more difficult 
problem which needs solved the method which 
such information should encoded. This is, mind, 
the central problem artificial intelligence, but also 
one which may show the way which such systems 
ought developed. boils down the essential 
question what intelligence is, and may prove that 
the process correlation sensory and motor function 
the way which may lead the establishment 
profitable responses and behaviour patterns. 

writing this aware overstating case and 
oversimplifying the issues the interest clarity 
manner which will irritate tidy-minded people. 
equally aware that this not the place where such esoteric 
arguments will proved disproved. Like perception 
itself they will need demonstrated. hope, however, 
that these rather self-indulgent musings may illustrate the 
way which high technology and computing particular 
capable affecting least some artists. 

the above considerations not constitute design 
for practical cognitive system, they may perhaps 
indicate some the conditions under which such 
system might evolve. They also constitute the framework 
within which hope continue work and provide the 


criterion for the design any other cybernetic sculp- 
tures. 


London, England 
September 1975 


VERA 
MOLNAR 


After academic art school training (Beaux Arts) 
began make non-figurative images. The images 
‘create’ consist combination simple geometric 
elements. develop picture means series small 
probing steps, altering the dimensions, the proportions 
and number elements, their density and their form, one 
one systematic way order guess what kind 
formal modification challenges the change the percep- 
tion picture: perception being the basis aesthetic 
reaction. final aim, common with many painters 
conscious way. Conscious way does not mean 
opinion the suppression intuition, but its reinforce- 
ment cognitive process; does not mean that paint- 
ing becomes matter logic. Art inception essen- 
tially intuitive, its elaboration that intuition needs 
control and aid cognition. 

Since simple geometrical shapes are used, stepwise 
modifications are relatively easy make. comparing 
the successive pictures resulting from series 
modifications, try decide whether the trend toward 
the result that desire. What thrilling experience 
the transformation indifferent version into one that 
find aesthetically appealing. 

This stepwise procedure has however two important 
disadvantages carried out hand. Above all tedious 
and slow. order make the necessary comparisons 
developing series pictures, must make many similar 
ones the same size and with the same technique and 
precision. Another disadvantage can make only 
arbitrary choice the modifications inside picture 
wish make. Since time limited, can consider only 
few many possible modifications. Furthermore, these 
choices are influenced disparate factors such 
personal whim, cultural and educational background, 
well ease execution. 


5 images out of the ‘196 squares series’, 1975. 


\ LA L 
Bie 
== 
— 
a 


All these considerations are explain why the use 
the computer imperative for purpose. Using 
computer with terminals like plotter or/and CRT 
screen, have been able minimize the effort required for 
this stepwise method generating pictures. The samples 
work give here illustration were made inter- 
actively CRT screen with program call RESEAU- 
TO. This program permits the production drawings 
starting from initial square array like sets 
concentric squares. The available variables are: the 
number sets, the number concentric squares withina 
set, the displacement individual squares, the deforma- 
tion squares changing angles and length sides, the 
elimination lines entire figures, and the replacement 
straight lines segments circles, parabolas, 
hyperbolas and sine curves. Thus, from the initial grid 
enormous variety different images can obtained. 

working just now onaprogram whoseaim 
explore systematically the possibilities the program 
RESEAU-TO and visualize exhaustive way all the 
types images can obtain. After first approximate 
calculations had 27,600 types pictures. This number 
corresponds only thetypes pictures: inside each 
those types infinite number different images can 


generated changing the values parameters one 
one, several them, all the same time. 

obvious that this kind work can not done 
without the aid acomputer, and obvious also—as far 
closely related former work carried out without the 
assistance computer. 

This approach the generating not new; 
had been applied long before computers were con- 
structed. Making aseries pictures that were alike except 
for the variation one parameter not uncommon the 
history art (Haystacks and the Rouen Cathedral 
Monet, for example). Just erasing, scraping, retouch- 
ing, covering parts picture coming back toa 
preceding version were always familiar techniques used 
painters. computer-aided procedure only 
systematization the traditional-classic approach. 
believe that the use the computer art important 
tool for the working out ‘science painting,’ more 
generally spoken ‘science art.’ With regard the 
impact the computer can have, favor the intro- 
duction computer science Art School curriculum. 


Tihany, France 
August 1975 


LAURENCE 
PRESS 


COMPUTERS 
AND SERIAL IMAGERY 


The reason painting this way that want 
machine, and feel that whatever and machine-like 
what want do. Andy Warhol, 1963. 


Rose rose rose. Gertrude Stein, 1922. 


his survey serial imagery John 
Coplans defines serial imagery repeated form 
related works made one artist.” This article will 
describe some the ways which have used 
computer generate series related images, but first let 
discuss few examples serial imagery other 
media. 

The tradition serial imagery painting began with 
Monet who, being vitally concerned with light, often 
painted the same object scene repeatedly under vary- 
ing light conditions. Between 1891 and 1926, Monet 
painted series groups poplar trees, haystacks, the 
Rouen Cathedral, mornings the Seine, Japanese foot- 
bridges, the Waterloo Bridge, and water lilies. Since 
Monet, many painters (mostly abstract) have worked 
serially. Andy Warhol, with his painted (and printed) series 
movie stars, Mona Lisas, soup cans, coke bottles, etc. 
the foremost serial artist today. 

Serial imagery may also found outside painting. 
While Monet was doubtless motivated fascination 
with changing light, may well have also been familiar 
with the photographic series E.J. Muybridge, Thomas 
Eakins and E.J. These were made the 
and 1880's and often depict movement animal 
human athlete series stills. Some these are 
discrete images, separated time fractions 
second, and others are superimposed stroboscopic 
images similar Duchamp’s “Nude Descending Stair- 
case” certain present-day advertisements depicting 
spunky, milk-drinking gymnasts tumbling about red 
leotards. Today, one finds photographers such Ray 
Metzger working with serial 

Larry Bell and Donald Judd are two modern sculptors 
who create series. Bell makes series transparent boxes, 
each which refract light slightly different manner 
(these are illustrated 1). Judd makes series identical 
modules which might attach wall vertical 
‘stack’ well series objects which vary size 


the original image 


and/or placement according some mathematical pro- 

Computers are well suited the production series 
images. series identical images may made 
simply re-running program, variation from one image 
the next may induced changing some parameter 
value with each run the program. 

have experimented with series line printer pictures 
made from single, digitized images. Each series includes 
unmodified reproduction the original and several 
copies which have been transformed along some dimen- 
sion. For instance, series might made reproducing 
image with random noise, with noise, 10% noise 
100% noise. Before describing some the transforma- 
tried, let say few words about figure which 
illustrates the mechanics producing these pictures. 

computer 


tape with the 
digitized image 


the line printer 

image 

Figure Digitizing and printing. 
program 

Digitizing and Printing 

The process begins with photographic print nega- 
tive which automatically scanned and digitized. This 
done which breaks the photo into 256 
256 point grid and records the amount light which 
reflected back when beam focused each thegrid 
points. grid point very dark area the image 
being little light will reflected back 
percentage will reflected white area. The propor- 
tion light reflected back mapped onto ranging 
from (pure black) 127 (pure white) and these ‘light 
intensity scores’ each grid point are written 
magnetic tape. Scanning and digitizing image this 
manner takes about ten minutes. 

this point have magnetic tape with 65,536 
numbers it, which may used make any number 
line printer (or other sorts of) images. The program 
this fairly straightforward. Each row the original 
printed single line printer line. Varying degrees 
shading are achieved overprinting. For print 
black grid point the characters and would 
printed top each other; print grey point, the 
characters and might superimposed and white 
point would represented not printing anything. 
Table shows the overprinting have used 
different grey-scale levels. 


Grey-scale Printed 
level characters 
(white blank 

2 - 

= 

4 

X,X,= 


Table Grey-scale overprinting. 


Notice that there are only eight different grey-scale 
levels the printed output, while each the grid points 
was represented light intensity score ranging from 
127. The most important parameters the picture print- 
ing program are the ‘clipping factors’ which specify 
which parts the range 0-127 are printed grey 
scale levels through For example, one might specify 


Keke 


Compressed desert scene with correlated noise. 


x 
: 
© 
wee 
x 
eee nese: 
see 


that all grid points the range 0-48 print level (black), 
49-55 print level 100-127 print level (white). 


Transformations 

With these mechanics digitizing and printing under- 
stood, let continue with description some the 
transformations have used generate series related 
images from the same initial photograph. 

Varying contrast. 

Varying the clipping factors that are specified when 
image printed causes the degree contrast the print 
vary. For instance, one merely specifies that every 
point scoring above 150 print white and every point 
scoring below 150 print black, high contrast, 
‘kodalith-like’ image results. the grey levels are 
distributed evenly across the light intensity range, more 
‘washed out’ image produced. 

Negative-positive. 

modifying the printing program invert all grey- 
scale levels before printing (i.e. becomes 
..., becomes one gets negative the original. 
single series may produced which consists high 
contrast negative, normal negative, washed out negative, 
washed out positive, normal positive, and high contrast 
positive image. 

Varying noise level. 

Random noise may introduced into image 
number ways. For instance, the printing program may 
modified print grey level points grey level witha 
specified probability were set normal image 
would made; were set .10, the black areas the 
image would ‘peppered’ with white; were set .5, 
mottled texture would replace all black areas the image; 
and were set all black areas would print white. 

Many variations this theme are possible. For 
instance, have tried leaving all white (grey level points 
white while switching all other grey levels white with 
probability printing randomly selected grey level 
each point with probability printing randomly selected 
grey level each point with probability but leaving all 
white points white; etc. 

Regardless how the noise introduced, series may 
generated simply varying the parameter from 
image image. 

Correlated noise. 

the examples the previous section, each grid point 
was examined independently and either altered not 
altered with probability also possible consider 
groups points and alter the entire group with probability 
For instance, one looks blocks grid points 
rather than each individual point, the effect generate 
noise with ‘checkerboard’ feeling. with the single- 
point noise discussed above, many randomization 
algorithms are possible when dealing with blocks 
points. 

Smoothing. 

The inverse adding noise perform some sort 
averaging operation remove noise. For example, one 
could reduce noise replacing each array grid 
points with their average light intensity score (if the entire 
array were replaced just one point, the picture size 
would also reduced). Another possibility find grid 
points for which the light intensity deviates more than 
some threshold amount from the average the sur- 
rounding grid points, and replacing those deviant points 
with the surrounding average. Series images are gen- 
erated varying the parameters and the first 
example the second. 

Insertion arbitrary material. 

possible print arbitrary textures character 


replace all areas within specified light intensity range 
with some meaningful printed word. have made pictures 
Marilyn Monroe with the word ‘ANDY’ ‘MARILYN’ 
inserted all white (grey level areas. Alternatively, 
some texture such random noise, all black, all white, 
alternating white and black points, random white and 
black points, etc. may substituted for areas 
that fall within specified light intensity range. 

Another possibility insert words textures 
certain portions image the light 
intensities. The arbitrary material could placed 
randomly chosen spots, the upper right hand corner, 
one inch wide vertical stripes, the center the image, 
etc. 

any case, the results are more pleasing (to me) the 
arbitrarily textured areas are outlined white (grey level 
formed, white lines may placed around areas agiven 
grey level, random, arbitrarily selected areas 
image. This another example the insertion arbitrary 
material. 

all these cases, series may generated vary- 
ing the amount and placement the arbitrary material. 
For instance image Marilyn Monroe might varied 
from unmodified output few areas filled with the 
string ‘MARILYN’ ... entire page filled with the string 
‘MARILYN.’ 


Stretching and compression. 

image may compressed deleting rows 
columns grid points may expanded repeating 
rows columns grid points. might begin witha 
vertically oriented image that has been compressed just 
few rows output, followed successively longer 
images copy expanded perhaps times the 
normal length. 

Note that rows and columns are repeated deleted, 
the scale the image altered, but remains propor- 
tion. For myself, distortion proportion which 
occurs when image expanded compressed only 
one direction. 

was fortunate get ‘bootleg’ access the equip- 
ment the University Southern California Image 
Processing Institute for the experiments described above. 
Had not been fortunate, would have had pay $25.00 
for each image had digitized and anywhere from $.50 
$2.50 for each line printer output, depending upon its 
size. (They were made IBM 360/44 which fairly 
well print bound for all the transformations that 
described.) 

uncomfortable begging for time. The 
problem that computer art doesn’t really fit anywhere. 
Neither computer scientists and computer science depart- 
ments, nor artists and art departments generally take 
seriously enough underwrite experimentation. Perhaps 
this should be, perhaps the quality our work 
will win place for computer generated art, think that the 
jury (justifiably) still out. 


Venice, California 
October 1975 


REFERENCES 


Coplans, John, Serial Imagery, New York Graphic Society, New York, 
1968. 

Newhall, Beaumont, The History Photography, Museum Modern 
Art, New York, 1964. 

Lyons, Nathan, Contemporary Photographers, the Persistence 
Vision, Horizon Press, New York, 1969. 

Agee, William, “Unit, Series, Site: Judd Lexicon,” America, May- 
June, 1975. 


MANUEL 
BARBADILLO 


WAY CYBERNETICS 


Sometime the early Sixties read book Norbert 
Wiener that had impact me. read Spanish, the 
title was “Cibernetica Sociedad” (Cybernetics and 
Society). 

The book impressed because, it, Wiener was 
dealing—although different terms—with many the 
very same problems that was involved with the time, 
automatism. Only the points view were different; his was 
mainly while problems were artistic 
nature. 

Some those problems were then becoming clear 
mind, but others still were level. This 
latter fact was probably responsible for the profound 
experience reading that book was for me. 

know, from own experience, that the important 
topics for one’s development are those that the time 
resound one’s subconscious. Because that, trust 
even isolated words, single sentences that produce 
emotional echo, more than coordinated theories, these 
have effect emotions. 

Years later, when had aclearer idea cybernetics, and 
when work was more developed, realized that along 
with collective had been making, 
own, the way cybernetics. Or, rather, cybernetic 
vision the world. 


1966; acrylic canvas panels 66x66 inches. 


‘IRAINA’, 1966; acrylic canvas panels 52x52 inches. 


the time read Norbert book, paint- 
ing was reversing shape-destructing process that had 
taken from initial realism what has been known 
style with complete 
disregard for shape and composition which placed the 
utmost importance self-expression—and was begin- 
ning build new style shape and rationality. This 
have described article ‘Materia Mine wasn’t 
isolated phenomenon. The new emphasis shape 
was world-wide trend. Abstract-expressionism had been 
the end result attempt produce absolutely 
subjective representation the world, the image the 
objective world—as our senses perceive it—had been 
destroyed ‘Impressionism.’ Simultaneously, trend 
which was started ‘Cubism’ had been striving set the 
basis for new objective representation reality— 
featuring our understanding nature, rather than its 
appearance—through the development new shapes 
and the attempt establish their 


Abstract-expressionism was means sterile 
experiment. has been one the most important 
developments twentieth century art. Its influence can 
still seen most the subsequent trends. Including 
the very formalistic ones, for the development art 
dialectic, with the most fruitful symbiosis taking place 
precisely between radically opposed such as, 
this instance, enthropic tendency and organiza- 
tional one. 

many respects this process very similar the 
scientific one, with Science penetrating step step under 
the outer layer things. anecdotal way would even 
say that the divisionist process the analysis light, 
finally reaching the stage ‘Pointillism,’ painting, very 
much resembles the path Science from the macro- 
cosmic the atomic conception the world. 


1968; acrylic canvas, 48x48 inches. 


inches, gouache. 


1974; acrylic canvas, 48x48 inches. 


1968, began computer research own paint- 
ing, with the collaboration the then newly-opened 
for objective language painting had led 
already—through the practically elimination the 
subjective elements—to repetitions single shape 
black and white compositions. have explained work 
with the computer articles ‘El Ordenador,’ 
published the already mentioned publication, and 
‘Modules, Structures and Relationships; 
Universal Rapport,’ which condensed version has 
been published English.? 

Currently, work based series elementary 
shapes, modules—four generally—which are the 
alphabet build pictures with. The definition these 
shapes square absolutely objective, and when 
repeated grid various positions, they may originate 
infinity different designs. Their number depends 
the squares the grid well the number modules 
employed. 

Starting with these modules, try express myself 
the poet does with words the composer with notes; 
combining them create rhythmic pattern. 

Basically, painting research the problem 
space, which work element hierarchically equal 
form, like complementary form antiform, the 
same way that silence—pauses—in music, amodulating 
element important sound, with ‘form’ being neither 
one the other but the result combinations between 
both them. 


pictures, space, rather than being neutral 
element—a mere support for form—is participating one, 
and the paintings, rather than form and background, are 
composed positive modules (black white) and nega- 
tive ones (white black). This principle oppositions 
and complementary opposites essential work. Itis 
present from the level independent modules that 
very complex compositions. believe statement 
the bipolarity dual nature things, notion 
antiquity held the golden rule the Universe. 

The computer has been help me. Properly pro- 
grammed will produce great number designs 
study and compare, choose get stimulus from. 
has revealed compositional rules had been using 
pictures without being really conscious them, and has 
allowed great deal systematization work. 
use more help for research than tool for execu- 
tion, and thus more interested speed than perfec- 
tion drawing, prefer line printer—with asterisks 
roughly filling the shapes—to plotter. The final versions 
works usually produce hand. 


Torremolinos, Spain 
August 1975 


FOOTNOTES 


Madrid (Avda. Complutense s/n. Madrid) June 1969. 


Page, Bulletin the Computer Arts Society. No. 12. London, November 
1970. 


WHY BECAME 

INVOLVED 
COMPUTER-ASSISTED ART: 
STUDY 

POETRY AND IMPATIENCE 


became involved computers, became involved 
art, through the back door: have had formal train- 
ing either field. 
work artist began with the writing poetry, 


and through poetry, was able put onto paper feelings, 
ideas, everything which flooded head, heart and 
body. With poetry, however, there was always something 
missing. wrote poetry, and, for that matter, did 
almost everything else have ever done—drive car, take 
baths, have baby, have sex, teach—my mind was always 
flooded with visual images well verbal images. had 
uncontrollable urge execute these visual images 
which constantly filled me. 

There was, however, problem with this. can’t draw. 
Nor can paint sculpt. would attempt produce 
image head paper, canvas, and the image 
would somehow distort itself into grotesque caricature 
what had wanted be. 

finally discovered, however, that through film, could 
some extent reproduce the fast-moving, brilliantly 
colored images that saw mind, for while 
worked film. this point, another aspect 
personality entered the picture: impatience. hate wait 
for anything, least all finished product visual 
images envision. discovered that the time had 
completed film, mental images were very different 
than what they had been the time had conceived the 
film. 

was this point that turned video, realizing that 
through this medium could create images real time. 
was seeing the swirling colors and movement 
head, could record them video tape. 

luckily became the artist residence the television 
studios connected with the Newhouse School 
Public Communications Syracuse, and was able 


composition swirling images created 
through use analog-distorted refracted laser light, with added video 
effects and video color. 


PATSY 
SCALA 


‘Scope computer-controlled sinusoidal waves keyed double 
image top one another, with special videographic effects added. 


work with two two-inch high-band quadriplex video 
recorders, two film chains, three broadcast-quality studio 
television cameras and highly sophisticated Sarkes- 
Tarzian control panel with two separate special effects 
generators. What trip! could sit the control board 
and compose visual poetry real time, watched 
compositions four color television monitors front 
me. 

Even with all this wonderful equipment, however, felt 
that something was lacking: truly varied input for 
video-graphic pieces. 

was this point that became involved with 
computers. attended workshop given Ken 
Knowlton Eastern Michigan University. actually went 
there video workshop that was being held 
simultaneously with the computer graphics workshop 
run Knowlton, but discovered that the video work- 
shop dealt mainly with black and white porta-pak use, 
and that not style video.) stuck Ypsilanti, 
Michigan, having paid workshop dues, and having 
nothing but explore Ypsilanti, decided instead 
take Knowlton’s computer graphics workshop. Reluc- 
tantly. Even though had mastered the control rather 
complex video equipment, the mystique the computer 
had convinced advance that could never learn 
program computer. became violently ill, suffered 
severe stomach cramps, and fought continually with 
anyone could find fight with. Then miracle 
computer what wanted do. The rest stay 
Ypsilanti somewhat blur. husband tells that 
had affair with PDP-10 computer, and he’s probably 
right. 


‘Scope sinusoidal waves, with two 
separate waves keyed onto one another the video keying process, put 
through video feedback cycle and re-keyed, with analog chroma color 
added. 


But opened the door was looking for: more types 
varied images for video tapes. began work with 
analog computer controlled sinusoidal waves shot 
film, then distorted through videographic animation. 
worked with husband collaboration works 
involving computer imagery and video. currently 
the process collaborating with Stephen Levine from 
Lawrence Livermore Laboratory more video tapes 
using computer input. 

Now that have discovered the computer, don’t think 
will ever back other types input video, unless 
the supplementary input combined with computer 
input. 

reasons? First all, video tapes tend makea 
great deal use negative well positive space, 
and computer animation lends itself ideally this type 
imagery. Second, since like images which can rapidly 
pulse, invert one another, swirl, and burst out from 
epicenter, the computer also lends itself this type 
imagery. Third, since video art still very much 
connected with poetry, and strongly believe that 
video images are viable language for the writing 
purely visual poetry, the computer gives more options 
for visual diversity than any other single tool could 
possibly use. Fourth, impatience again. The computer 
can produce images rapidly, and this very important 
me. 


light red, green and blue lasers, distorted 
analog-control, keyed three times through video, then put through video 
feedback loop and keyed with video color added. 


the catalyst which changes both the art world and the 
computer community. Once something has been done 
art, the art world whole doesn’t back—even 
though some people will always back painting 
portraits their grandmothers. Now that computers have 
become integral part the work least some 
artists, strongly feel that other artists will begin look 
the computer viable tool for the production art. 
the same time, believe that computer scientists are 
beginning recognize that data they produce for 
scientific purposes can quite beautiful. They—at least 
some them—are becoming artists. 

could perfect melding the many varieties 
persons existing our highly technological age. 

Would recommend the computer tool for all 
artists? course not—no more than could recom- 
mend the paintbrush tool own art. But would 
say that for artists looking for innovative images, artists 
seeking find place their art for the technology 
which surrounds us, artists who are not afraid 
machinery, the computer perfect tool. 

with computers for artists! 


Syracuse, New York 
October 1975 


WILLIAM 
KOLOMYJEC 


THE APPEAL 
COMPUTER GRAPHICS 


interest computer graphics began while was 
undergraduate working toward Bachelor Fine Arts 
degree Industrial Design. concerns itself primarily 
with product aesthetics. discovered when doing product 
design that many things could quantified, including 
Man,' and that products might suit more people they 
could adapted adjusted individual needs. 
became apparent that computer which held the 
relevant data about consumer could, during produc- 
tion, ‘customize’ item and make more desirable. This 
led further research culminating Master Fine 
Arts degree Graphic Design. This was the fact 
that the majority endeavor was ‘Computer 
Graphics’ making the first ‘computer graphic artist’ 
graduate from Michigan State University and, doubt, 
one the few Fine Arts people have minor Com- 
puter Science. 

During investigations, found book with the 
dubious title, Design and Planning 2.2 The book was 
largely based contributions the ‘1966 International 
Conference Design and Planning’ the University 
Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario. dealt with conceivable 
uses the computer design ‘tool’ and gave specific 


general explanations design applications and 
possible design applications. For the first time the many 
nuances and ramifications associated with computer 
aided design were revealed me. The appeal was great 
that had investigate its use further and have been 
involved with that investigation ever since. 

The digital computer and peripheral graphic equip- 
ment (scopes, plotters, etc.) comprise medium. 
consider these things tools and, Computer 
Graphic Artist, must translate imagery and desires 
into form that can used this hardware. The medium 
complete and valid any traditional aesthetic media 
painting, lithography, ceramics, photography any 
other media. There are several strong similarities within 
computer graphics these established media. Photog- 
raphy relies upon much specialized equipment the total 
photographic process (i.e., when the photographer 
composes takes the picture when the final image 
printed and displayed). Computer graphics requires even 
more complicated and specialized equipment its 
process making computer imagery. Different con- 
figurations computer and graphic equipment change 
output (the final form which imagery presented) and 
its similarity other media. For example, with plotter 
hard copy unit, the medium should considered 
When computer and digagraphic 
display console with refresh capabilities are joined, 
computer graphics can considered cinematog- 
raphy. example would three dimensional 
output. computer and anumerically controlled machine, 
such milling machine, could form output 
which, for all practical purposes, would sculpture. 

The imagery computer graphics can essentially 
putinto one two categories with the possibility having 
various ratios these present the final visual state- 
ment. The first category the ‘digitized image’ where 
provided data the computer external computer 
program. The second method supplying computer 
the computer program. The random number generator 
falls within this category. visual statements employ 
both types imagery. usually depends what 
trying say wish explore that determines the 
image mind, use the first method and digitize the 
image. However, there are cases when the image, like 
star regular polygon, more suited algorithm. 
‘Banana-Cone,’ figure the key images the banana 
and the ice-cream cone had digitized. Each image 
has digitized coordinate locations and appropriate pen 


figure ‘Banana-Cone’. 


| \ \ ( » | 
/ / \ 


figure ‘Birds’. 


controls for lifting the pen proper line segments. The 
imagery originates from one wife’s favorite treats, 
banana ice cream. That part the process that takes 
image between conception and symbolic representation 
purely subjective and may come from many sources 
personal experiences. may also study another 
work will explain later. bananas can made into 
ice cream consumed food, possible change 
the form banana using linear interpolation into that 
ice cream cone which may visually consumed 
again and again. nothing else, the aesthetic method has 
less calories. 

Other examples using data bases imagery external 
computer program are ‘Birds,’ figure ‘Bird Curves,’ 
figure and ‘Creature Tunnel,’ figure These works are 
particularly good illustrations one the things that 
computer does well since the computer very good 
performing repetitious operations. These programs use 
the same data over and over again with slight modifica- 
tions. have done these without the aid computer 


would have been too iaborious and the quality drawing 
would not have been precise. have put together data 
base four animals each having the same number 
points and pen controls. From this can select 
will any, all, creatures for use program. 
Primarily write own FORTRAN programs. feel itis 
necessary that ‘computer artist’ this. consider 
myself ‘user’ far the computer production 
hierarchy concerned but neither engineer nor 
computer scientist. Another thing not mathe- 
matician, but sometimes work with one help writing 
complex algorithms such determining the orientation 
imagery ‘Birds’ and ‘Bird Curves.’ From writing 
general algorithms possible piece them together 
segments make other programs like ‘Creature 
Tunnel’ that does use several things including the total 
menagerie its data. This program employs the random 
number generator make decisions choice 
animal, its position, and amount rotation spatial 
cylinder. Finally all these things are put into perspective 


figure ‘Creature Tunnel’. 


2 49 
figure ‘Bird Curves’. 
te 
ah, +2 LN 
J 


which can varied and thus determine the final imagery. 
All all, with many options and combinations which 
comprise program, the decisions which computer 
graphic artist makes yield particular final image are 
identical the decisions made any other artists work- 
ing any other media. 

The algorithmic method, method creating 
image internal program provides imagery with 
different quality. ‘Random Concentric Squares,’ figure 
contains algorithm that can divide individual square 
concentric squares based the random location 
square with fixed size located anywhere within its 
boundaries. ‘Organic Illusion,’ figure uses the same 
basic idea large array squares. However, its 
algorithm places circle randomly with one square and 
equally randomly connects points the extremities 
that square. Note here that the points the extremities 
adjacent squares are coincidental and give concrete 
overall structure the work. ‘Kolomyjec’s Moire,’ figure 
deals with the optical phenomena produced moire 
patterns. Considered group, these works have 
similar quality about them yet they are dissimilar the 
group previous works. Using these works examples, 
the distinction these categories computer graphic 
imagery become further apparent. 


explorations dealing with computer graphics, 
will, times, attempt interpret works other artists. 
Just all art students are impressed works they have 
seen the course their studies, too have been 
impressed. enjoy making images that not only reveal the 
attributes medium but also exude the essence 
those which study. Figure ‘Kolomyjec’s Moire’ not 
only illustrates the logic many branching-search 
algorithms used computer science computer 
scientists, also may classified ‘Optical Art’ and 
contains visual phenomena akin that which ‘Op’- 
artist might produce. were look the works the 
‘Op’-artists, particularly Richard Anuszkiewicz, Bridget 
Riley, and Victor Vasarely, one might surprised with 
their similarity computer generated images. Figure 
‘Birds,’ single image repeated over and over like Andy 
coke bottles, soup cans, dollar bills, whatever. 
not attempt bring myself down the level the 
machine like Warhol, but rather try bring the machine 


figure ‘Random Concentric Squares’. 


repetitious operations, also create dynamic structure. 
There are other however, would like point 
out final one. man who has been unquestionable 
source inspiration Maurits Escher. The 
manner which Escher derives imagery clear-cut 
and methodical that they seem almost algorithmic 
nature. There excellent article about Escher one 
issue Scientific American that attributes his 
sources primarily experiments visual perception. 
Some the techniques utilized were naturals for 
computer imagery. His transformations one image into 
another, ‘Metamorphose,’ 1939-40, compares with linear 
parabolic interpolation similar figure His am- 
biguous limits large and small, ‘Square Limit,’ 1964 and 
‘Circle Limit IV,’ 1960, sometimes referred ‘Heaven 
and Hell,’ form interlocking structures shapes while 
they increase decrease size and were sources for 
two series works: ‘Homage Maurits Escher’ figure 
which the second from this series, and ‘Escher the 
Round’ figure which the third from this series. 

interesting note that computer graphics ‘fine 
art’ had its first showing only ten years ago. 1965 
exhibitions computer generated art forms took place 
America and Europe.* The Americans were Michael 
Noll and Bela Julesz. Their European counterparts were 
Frieder Nake and George Nees. was not uncommon for 
these early computer image makers use the computer 
duplicate basic theme traditional artist. classic 
study Michael Noll, ‘Computer Compositions with 
Lines’ 1965, after Peit Mondrian’s ‘Composition with 
Lines,’ 1917° Figure 10, ‘Boxes’ turn interpreta- 
tion work George Nees entitled ‘Gravel 
feel that appropriate study works other artists, 
especially traditional artists and those who established 
computer art the fine art realm. 


The computer has been labeled ‘the ultimate creative 
tool for the Computer graphics 
has the distinction that allows exchange between 
artist and engineer-scientist. The artist must work hard 
learn the objective approach problem solving, the 
engineer-scientist must acquire visual sensitivity and 
awareness. mutual setting, such classroom, both 
may exchange ideas but each must use whatever creativity 
she may possess solve problems and produce 
computer graphics. Computer graphics exploits this 
creative potential both artist and engineer-scientist. The 


figure ‘Organic 


figure ‘Kolomyjec’s Moire’. 


trend recent years art has been towards collabora- 
tion art and technology. Its roots lie the Dadaist 
philosophy alleviate the ‘unrestrained individualism’ 
the artist. There have been many cases art since 1900 
artists have ‘physically intellectually 
collaborated with new The appeal the 
machine has been overwhelming since the advent elec- 
tronics and electronic control. This one reason why 
artists and engineer-scientists have gyrated closer and 
closer together. “... art whole (has moved) from 
depiction movement movement itself, from pro- 
gramming interface with the computer the actual 
computer, from lust for life involvement with 
There question mind that art and technology 
have become willing partners and shall continue 
influence each other future. Computer art logical 
end this involvement. Just exactly how will affect 
the future remains seen. Yet there are some ramifica- 
tions. possible use computer generate un- 
limited unique multiples from one ‘superoriginal.’ can 


provide prints figures 5,6 and 10, each original 
its own right since each has the random number function 
built into its respective program. But some questions 
arise. mass production art the computer the 
method make art available everyone? When 
produced quantity, does the value well the price 
art work decline? Are people willing accept and support 
the computer instrument that can, under the control 
artist, valid form individual expression? 

long can attain access computer will 
continue use it. medium! Here Michigan State 
University have taught computer graphics form 
expression for the past two years and the response has 
been overwhelming. Many art students, after involve- 
ment with the computer, discover that there are objective 
methods problem solving and any preconceived 
notions about the ‘ominous’ computer are dispelled, 
becomes tool their hands. Many non-art students 
when they become acquainted with visual phenomena 
learn ‘see’ their world under different light. 


= 
| & 
= 
oe 


figure 10: ‘Boxes’. 


encourage students work together debugging 
programs and evaluating imagery. All take part class- 
room critiques. Here the collaboration reaches max- 
imum when artist and non-artist explain what thoughts 
underlie particular work. The effort making computer 
graphics great but then the reward. encourage 
anyone spend the time and effort necessary one’s 
involvement with this medium. Perhaps the greatest return 
comes from the works themselves when the neophyte 
computer artists discover that embedded their imagery 


East Lansing, Michigan 
September 1975 


REFERENCES 


The Measure Man, Henry Dreyfus, Second Edition, Published 


Whitney Library Design, 1959. 

Design and Planning Edited Martin Frampen and Peter Sietz, 
Hastings House, Publishers, Inc., N.Y., 1967. 

“Sources Ambiguity the Prints Maurits Escher,” Marianne 
Teuber, from Scientific American Magazine, Volume 231, Number 
July 1974. 

Art the Future, History/Prophecy the Collaboration between 
Science, Technology and Art, Douglas Davis, Praeger Publishers, 
1973, 99. 

Computer Graphics—Computer Art, H.W. Franke, Phaidon Press Ltd., 
London, 1971, 111, fig. 91. 

Ibid 30, fig. 20. 

Art the Future, History/Prophecy the Collaboration between 
Science, Technology and Art, Douglas Davis, Praeger Publishers, 
1973, 97. 

Ibid, 112. 

Ibid, 112. 


number different combinatory strategies. This was 
achieved introducing determinant tendency which 
kept referring few basic criteria for guidance and 
qualitative feedback. 

When the output these programs was exhibited 


stills the form computer graphics, realized that the 


structure the underlying process was little 
relevance the viewing public. This opened whole 
set new problems which could summed saying 


that relevant contribution can made using the 
computer the arts unless the public can coinvolved 
active participant. 

Computer graphics this context merely represents 
transition stage. They stand stills ina processin motion 
and fall short realizing the full potential the medium. 
With computer, can now describe and communicate 
the organization, structure, and dynamics message. 
the same time leaving open different interpreta- 
tions and modifications, better: only with computer 
can untie the constructive aspects idea from its 
material features and observe and articulate them time 
through direct interaction. 

This potential offers the possibility develop programs 
which could actively involve the public and turn the 
passive spectator into active participant. designing 
interactive programs, some attitudes will have 
changed. The will longer concern himself solely 
with the sublimation and expression his internal world 


turned the use computers 1968. that time the form finished objects, but will have deal with 
was experimenting with redundancy paintings specific and locatable problems (even hypothetical 
(repetition the same module over large areas with only nature) order able lend some the control over 
slight shifts size). The monotony the manual task and the participant. 


the limited number variations which was able 
produce agiven time made realize the inadequacy 
traditional methods dealing with our present reality. Asymmetric 
first designed programs which, given basic Composition 
repertoire signs and set combinatory rules, the With Partitions 
qualitative value each possible combination depended 
predetermined balance between probability and 
chance. Later, tried extend the autonomy the pro- 
grams developing systems which could produce 


Asymmetric 
Composition 
With Partitions 


Asymmetric 
Composition 
With Partitions 


Symmetric 
Composition 
With Partitions 


Figure 


WHITE 


¥ 
| 


feel that the main shift will therefore have from 
object oriented art art which will emphasize those 
structural and constructive implications underlying 
work process which are not necessarily stipulated 
formal aspects (or final static result) and which can 
only communicated direct interactive exchange. 
For example, can gain very little knowledge about the 
structural and combinative properties system 
examining the properties its constituent elements 
isolation. the contrary, must actually combine 
those elements gain some knowledge about the range 
developments which the system may offer. This means 
that instead the traditional contemplation, the partici- 
pant will offered the possibility engage compari- 
son, selection, and decision making; short, creative 
participation. 


Diagonal White 


The procedure described below illustrates the latest 
version (Diagonal White) program which have been 
sporadically developing since 1970. this stage, 
investigation the combinatory possibilities set 
non-determined modules, and color, simultaneously 
considered defining arrangements differently 
colored planes, and the representation tridimen- 
sional space plane surface. elements 
the system are: vertical, horizontal and diagonal 
line for the definition planes, the three primary colors 
(yellow, red, biue), and white, gray and black. 

The new developments regard the formation modules 
(spatial configurations figures) which are longer 
fixed predetermined, and the color definition the 
figure areas function their shapes. For this purpose 


Figure 


established elementary, reciprocal relation between 
the shape area and its chromatic definition, which 
exemplified the following associative rule: 

rectangular area can either yellow red blue. 

non-rectangular area can either gray black. 

This rule complies with basic criterion for which the 
coupling the primary colors with orthogonal shapes 
defines flat surfaces opposition the coupling gray 
and black with non-orthogonal shapes which gives illu- 
sion tridimensional space. White becomes, this 
instance, ambiguous element for spatial definition 
chromatic counterpart the diagonal, since can con- 
sidered either one the color tones the lightest 
shade the white/black scale. For this reason can 
combine with both orthogonal 
shapes. Therefore except for the definition the white 
areas, for the associative rule mentioned earlier, and for 
certain qualitative tests regarding area size and regularity, 


the color choice for each area random the sense that 
different color arrangements can define the same 
composition without altering its spatial definition. The 
program develops through three separate stages which 
are functionally related: 


Composition. 

Define rectangle whose sides will determined bya 
ratio taken from the Fibonacci series. 

Subdivide the given area into number rectangular 
partitions according the harmonic proportioning 
mentioned above. 

Notes: The initial rectangle can subdivided either 

symmetrically asymmetrically. The number parti- 

tions established random choice between mini- 

mum and maximum limit. (Fig. 

Figure formation. 

Position diagonal element the given matrix (Fig. 
2b). 

Complete the diagonal element extending vertical 
and horizontal line from each its two ends (Fig. 2c). 

Subdivide the remaining partition area into rectangles 
compliance with the following rhythmic sectioning 
the sides: 1,2, 2,1,2 2,2,1 (Fig. 2d). 

Notes: The above only summary illustration the 

figure formation process, since the number diagonal 

elements for each figure, and the number different 
figures for composition determined function the 


number partitions and the symmetry asymmetry 
the previously established composition. 


Color definition. 

Identify the largest non-adjacent rectangular areas, 
and apply one the primary colors. 

Apply second primary color the remaining non- 
adjacent rectangular areas. 

Identify all non-adjacent non-rectangular areas and 
apply either gray black. 

All the remaining areas are white. 

Notes: general rule prevents areas the same color 

have one more sides common. When several areas 

with similar qualifications have common sides, priorities 

choice are established favouring larger size 

regularity shape. 


Trieste, Italy 
July 1975 


1 1 1 1 
or 2 or 


DIAGONAL WHITE #5635 


THIS SOLV TION 
TAKEN FROM THE FiBowACC! SENIES, 


DOES WoT 

[WITH THE 
SECTIONING oF THE 
THEREFORE: 


| 
DEPINE A RECTANGLE WHOSE SIDES | AREA | INTO RECTANGLES: 0) IDENTIFY THE LARGEST MON- ADACENT 
! 
| 


THE PRIMARY 


NUMBER 
ACCORDING To THE MAR MONIC 
MENTIONED ADOVE. { 4 


REMAWIN NON ADJACENT 
q j RECTAN GucAn 


A TENDENLy TowARoS REDUNDANCY THIS 
1 TRNOENCY CAN BE CHECKED BY Forming 
° T DANT 


ALL 


i 


white: 


TiON SUBDIVISION, 
«AVE GCEEN 


‘DIAGONAL WHITE 


The program was run onaCDC 6200 system the Computer Center The 


University Trieste. The programming was done collaboration with Dr. 
Matjaz Hmeljak. 


‘Diamond Variation II’, serigraph; 
1975, inches diameter. 
Ruth Leavitt 
‘SPLASH, 
The beginning 
splash sequence. 
Peter Struycken 


Bicentennial Tribute. Aldo Giorgini 
copyright 1975 Aldo Giorgini 


*, 
computer Painting, 1975. Duane Palyka 


‘Shades Hades’, lithograph; inches, 1972-4. Aaron Marcus ‘Evolving Gravity’, lithograph; inches, 1972-4. Aaron Marcus 


‘Simulated Color Mosaic’, Hiroshi Kawano 


ee eee 
ee 
eee ee 
BEES 
aan | 
a8 


BLOCPIX™ 


Ralph Nader Manning. 


iy 
‘ 
J 
x 


MANNING 


BLOCPIX* 


the accepted sense the word, the not 
the visual portion the spectrum (as well some 
outside) and, for discrete area, integrates it. With 
ancillary sensing equipment, the device part 
specialized computer. But that another story and 
relate the art form produced, let first 
answer your questions. 

“How/why did you become involved with the computer 
(in producing art)?” 

became involved with the computer only the sense 
that much what found printed and called ‘computer 
art’ lent itself very well optical input material for colorful 
abstractions the output the optical processor built. 

“What your art background?” 

Although was some time ago and have difficulty 
remembering, think took art the 4th, 5th and 6th 
grades. could never get the hang it. frustration 
turned mechanical drawing and was skilled drafts- 
man the time was and regularly produced model 
airplane plans for various model airplane magazines until 
entered college. 

“What role does the computer play for you...simu- 
lation, tool, etc? What your role?” 

terms Blocpix abstractions, the role 
dish out some fancy patterns. Even though can use 
the processor make vapid designs colorful, the gigo 
principle applies. 

“Are your computer works related non-computer 
art?” 

don’t work computer. 

“Do you have final image mind when work begins?” 

Some the abstractions have created are mind 
when work the linear input program begins. The out- 
put seldom looks like what had mind. 

“Could your work done without the aid com- 
puter? yes, why use the computer?” 

certainly can done without the aid computer. 
But the computer produces mass material. Out the 
mass, try elide the mess and use good. 


*Trademark registered U.S. Patent Office Watson-Manning, Inc. 


“To what extent are you involved the technical pro- 
duction your work, for example, programming?” 

Not all. 

“Do you feel art work created with computer has now 
will have impact art whole the future?” 

Yes. 

“Do you recommend the use the computer for others 
creating works art?” 

“Do you intend continue using the computer create 
art pieces?” 

intend learn how use the computer create art, 
largely connection with the Blocpix format. 


involvement with what call Blocpix (which ge- 
nerically can called block portraits) began least 
couple years ago when saw news release from Bell 
Laboratories showing picture Abraham the 
block format. 

The picture was produced scientist Bell 
Labs named Leon Harmon. wrote him, wrote tome, 
and made various suggestions. The picture had 
created was produced scanning image, manipu- 
lating the digitalized information that produced 
output discrete tones for discrete this case, 
blocks squares. suggested Harmon that the whole 
thing could done more easily optical methods. 
said that had conceived optical means doing so. 

Some months later Harmon showed the output from 
his optical processor. Two pictures produced were 
the November 1973 issue Scientific American. made 
arrangement with him try exploit the process cine- 
graphic form. 

about this time, the very talented optical effects 
movieman John Whitney, Jr., produced about minutes 
and seconds worth cinegraphic block portraiture for 
the Michael Crichton film did this very 
much the same manner that Harmon had originally 
devised Bell Labs. His operation was described the 
November 1973 issue American Cinematographer. 
Essentially, took each 70mm frame movie stock, 
color-separated basic color separations black 
mask), scanned each these convert into rectangular 
blocks. Then added basic color according the tone 
values developed and put the whole thing back together. 
were chagrined when WestWorld was released and our 
idea had evidently been scooped. was only upon reading 
the description how worked American 
Cinematographer that learned accomplished what 
the optical processor would require about minutes worth 
filming. 

readily evident from the portraits that Har- 
mon prepared for Scientific American the November 
1973 issue, his device had imperfections. had learned 
that Frenchman the name Darnowsky was doing 
some similar work, and since had considerable back- 
ground scientific instrumentation decided build 
instrument myself. Because Professor Harmon thought 
that his idea was patentable, had made 
how his processor worked. 

things turned out, the processor built was, 
principle, very much like 

The device simply array optical units each 
whose cross-sectional geometry square. There are 
units units for total 1200. The unit produces 
results real time...instantaneously...with optical 
input, usually projected slide. Obviously, you can project 


BLOCPIX™ Sen. Sam Ervin 


motion pictures just easily and photograph them the 
output. 


the optical processor make Blocpix images. 
Since the total output the processor constructed 
lends itself readily facial images. The information 


are beautiful blobs color. the other hand, single 


rose looks like rose. 


Stratford, Connecticut 
October 1975 


: 
3 
| 


DUANE 
PALYKA 


COMPUTER PAINTING 


Computer memory electronic surface—a thin 
sheet consisting millions small electronic elements 
called bits*, each with its own electronic field which can 
measured plus minus, one zero, white black. 
these bits are set computer program, one can stand 
away from this surface and see clusters bits, patterns 
bits. These bit settings can form different gray levels, 
shapes, and visual images. 

This not totally imaginary discourse. device calleda 
frame-buffer was invented for just this purpose: allow 
bits computer memory reflect themselves 
visual device—the principal one being color monitor. 
The computer memory continuously scanned and 
displayed the monitor; the way the bits are set reflects 
the way the three color guns excite the phosphors 
the tube surface. Programs can written change these 
bits dynamically and therefore give instantaneous color 
feedback the monitor. 

When computer lends itself easily visual artistic 
exploration, why should restricted engineering 
uses? Why should any separation made between this 
and other artistic devices? The computer artist need not 
know about his medium below the plastic level any more 
than the painter has know about the chemistry his 
paints. The plastic level the computer art medium, 
however, includes programming; but programming just 
plastic medium its own right paint and brush, and 
can thought direct visual sense when coupled 


with accommodating hardware device like frame- 
buffer. 


Both the creation paintings and the creation com- 
puter programs are the creation objects—objects con- 
structed out ideas, concepts, and craftsmanship. The 
aim finished work with strong structure, patterns, 
imagery, and textures. painting can considered 
‘clean’ devoid meaningless shapes and forms. pro- 
gram can considered ‘clean’ when the code has 
meaningless instructions. Good structure program 
can bring much esthetic satisfaction good structure 
painting. The code and structure reflects 
the personality the person generating it. Both pro- 


bit the smallest numeric unit computing. bit can either 
the binary number system. Three bits set side-by-side make 111 (binary) 
which is the number 7 (octal or decimal). 


gramming and painting are problem-solving processes 
which each person has his own approach. 

Actually, painting more emphasis may placed 
upon the subconscious the source images and ideas. 
Not exclude the fact that leaps the imagination are 
needed generate creative ideas both media, pro- 
gramming basically logical process which utilizes 
individual’s conscious mind. Because this difference, 
painting can reach more mystical level awareness—a 
depth consciousness which can experience but not 
explain. This does not mean that works art are not 
logical, far from it. because the most creative works 
art have such logical basis that the computer fits 
well with the creative artistic process. 

Take example Lewis Carroll’s Alice 
Wonderland. Few people will deny this highly- 
creative work with imagery which reaches into unknown 
areas our psyche, but this work based heavily 
strong mathematical logic taken absurd levels. Lewis 
Carroll had background mathematics. the 
paintings have provided art historians with 
source analytical material for years, but have 
Mondrian, Vinci, and many other painters. 

emphasis logically conscious thinking required 
with this medium certain extent since the computer 
works this way, but the computer artist’s thought 
processes need not rest solely this level. Programming 
step-by-step process where the programmer must 
understand what happening every step, but the 
images one makes using this process need not totally 
‘understood.’ The images themselves not have strict 
logical tie the images which follow. The creation 
images must have some logical visual flow from one 
another add order the composition but, unlike the 
programming which generates it, the system images 
will not collapse from the slightest deviation from logical 
conscious order. fact, the deviations are what give 
emotion and tension the piece. painting, with the 
computer art medium subconscious ‘not-understood’ 
constructions can co-exist with conscious ‘well-under- 
stood’ constructions. this aspect which makes art 
reflect everyday human thought processes and hence 
reflect life. Taking computer scientist programmer 
who thinks continually this linearly conscious level, itis 
interesting see what works art prefers and what his 
view representing the real is. His thinking 
demands that view the real world conscious 
‘understood’ level. makes strict comparisons between 
the images generates and the world front him. 
this attempt render the world this strictest sense 
may even find disturbing look through two eyes when 
rendering flat image because that means has 
choose which view select, the one from the right eye 
the one from the left. 

interesting note that far artists go, besides 
renaissance painters, Escher one the favorites. This 
because Escher renders reality conscious level 
with deviations made strictly logical basis keep 
interesting. There little leakage from the unconscious 
into images. 

What this thought process lacks the realization that 
leakage from the subconscious can make the images even 
more real spite the fact that they now deviate from the 
strictly-observable real world. This deviation personalizes 
the images allowing the viewer’s imagination get 
sync with the ‘non-understood’ subcon- 
scious level. 

Conversely, the artist could benefit from getting 
involved linear conscious thought processes since will 
give him more power ‘cleaning-up’ his images and 
structuring his pieces. Through these processes will 


have the tools analyse his processes well the 
processes others and help understand himself little 
better. This experience can also assist removing some 
the irrational fears laymen have about computers. 

Programming itself filled with interesting visual 
imagery which, turn, makes one think with new visual 
insight. Take, for instance, the idea the ‘bubble sort.’ 
The bubble sort programming device for organizing 
list disorganized numbers into list organized 
numbers which increases (or decreases) sequentially. 
does this forcing the smallest numbers bubble 
the top means one-on-one comparison with the 
number above it. smaller than the one above it, they 
change positions; greater than equal to, 
change occurs. Imagining this process visually, 
resembles the motion bubbles. one thinks Paul 
Klee’s visual terms, one can ‘see’ implementation 
this process canvas. For the socially-conscious artist 
this concept can expanded into the ‘bubble-sort 
principle’ illustrate individuals rising the business 
world according their moral 

What the overhead learning the computer art 
medium artist can start thinking terms forms, 
shapes, and colors through numbers and programs? With 
paint, the first stroke one makes yields visual results. With 
programming, may expend many hours learning 
programming language before ever really seeing visual 
image produced with it. Unless the artist can get interested 
the programming medium for its own sake, can get 
discouraged and put end this business before ever 
getting started. 

the other hand, one can have the computer simulate 
traditional art medium with which the artist familiar 
and leave the artist make the transition from the 
medium knows the new medium his own terms. 
The computer very good simulation and, coupled with 
frame-buffer, this particular simulation simple 
implement. Using electronic pen and tablet for input, 
the artist can provided with medium similar acrylic 
painting. can watch monitor flow color 
reflecting his hand and pen movements the tablet. 
fact, can even select the brush sizes wishes use. 

advantage that this medium has over acrylic 
that the artist can change the medium suit his own 
personal artistic needs through programming. the 
artist learns program can see the development and 
change his medium and, hence, his images. 

What kind artist can get involved with the computer 
art medium? this stage the game, takes artist 
who can cope with dualities since has straddle two 
fields. must have flexible enough identity accept 
the interflow ideas from one discipline another. 
must able pursue what interesting spite the 
labels that have been attached it. must interested 
developing both hemispheres his brain—the half 
dealing with algebraic logic well the half dealing with 
esthetics. artist who comes mind who seems have 
the flexibility deal creatively with this medium Marcel 
Duchamp. artist capable playing chess can become 
capable programming computers. artist involved 
Dada Zen can cope with the dualities. artist whose 
ideas are conceptual well sensual can fit well here. 

The computer art medium can also help with the artistic 
risk-taking process. When artist makes radical changes 
his painting based new thoughts and ideas, risks 
destroying the painting produce highly-creative work. 
Giacometti and Matisse had the guts wipe out hours 
work start afresh the same painting. This can 
difficult thing for artist do. Giacometti developed 
process taking painting completion, wiping clean, 
painting again, wiping again, etc. until reached 


state where liked just gave up. problem occurs 
when previous stage the painting had the best result 
but there way retrieving it. Picasso found the desire 
have two paintings developed acertain identical state 
then each taken completion different directions. 
These tasks can made easier with the computer art 
medium. 

digital picture, its very nature, can saved, trans- 
ferred, and restored without any loss information. 
make copy digitized image make another 
original. Abitis transferred exactly. This means 
that artist can save state his image, explore new 
directions changing that image—perhaps risky new 
direction that was afraid approach before, and 
retrieve his saved image continue did not like the 
results that exploration. This means that anyone with 
compatible computer system can have the artist’s work 
with wishes. fact, the rip-off problems could 
cause some legal difficulties the future. 

The computer also very good repetitive tasks. 
hypothetical program which would utilize this feature 
the artist’s advantage one which would generate 
infinite series pictures, each created according pro- 
grammed rules design coupled with algorithms 
devices which generate pseudo-random numbers. Witha 
program like this one could actually satisfy the needs 
the art world without boring oneself death—creating 
enough similar works the artist can easily identified 
with certain style. 

Incidentally, because the mathematical base the 
medium, works produced with could force the pseudo- 
mathematical approach painting assert itself new 
and less ambiguous ways die natural death. 
example this approach where the artist points 
triangle his canvas and tries imply mystical mathe- 
matical base the work stating that one point his 
triangle ‘A,’ another ‘B,’ etc. without reaching any 
definitive depth the matter. ambiguous 
natural part the art process for reasons explained 
above. one really expected explain work art. 
However, ambiguous when making correlation 
between art object and mathematics placing oneself 
dangerous grounds. 

Every case mentioned above has the artist working 
alone create his images. Why not have the artist work 
with programmer produce his images? The artist-pro- 
grammer relationship can learning process for both 
individuals; each finds out more about how the other 
thinks. However, view the situation according the 
quality art work produced, and make the assump- 
tions that the programmer artist and that the artist 
not programmer, the following two problems occur. 

First, the artist uses the programmer tool produce 
his art. the process providing the artist with higher 
level between him and the machine, the programmer 
becomes extension the machine the sense that his 
work also included the area the black box. This 
fine for having the computer simulate calculator, but not 
good for trying produce creative work more 
personal level. 


Second, since the ideas about what the computer 
can are sketchy and since his own ideas about what 
wants the computer are not defined well enoughina 
common language that both understand, lack com- 
munication occurs which prevents any real depth 
image-making occur. The scientific process and the 
artistic process differ one basic point: the artist allows 
feedback from the process dictate changes his goals 
whereas the scientist will interpret his feedback defin- 
ing state his progress towards his predefined goals. 
Consequently, the start the process, the artist has 


computer painting, September, 1975. 


sketchy, rather vague, set goals whereas the scientist 
has well-defined set. artist starts out with tentative 
plan and then feels around until finds something 
likes. The end result may not even resemble what 
started out achieve. There are, course, grey levels 
this black-and-white description—especially the area 
the more creative programmers and artists; but, then again, 
the creative individual who can overcome rigid 
processes and change his thinking fit the situation. 

When our stereotyped programmer gets 
unexpected result straightens out his program give 
the ‘right’ result, but when our stereotyped artist gets 
error unexpected result evaluates from esthetic 
viewpoint and may incorporate into his work allow 
dictate the direction the work ‘feels good.’ The 
emphasis placed rules—generating and obeying 
them. The artist likes break rules can. wants 
disprove the seemingly absolute. 

The difference methodology, incidentally, makes 
difficult for the artist write definite proposal get 
funds for the creation computer art environment. 
difficult for him outline goals, needs, and step-by-step 
procedures well-defined scientific manner when his 
work not based these methods. 

Now major problem with achieving access flexible 
computer art medium the initial cost setting up: 
$50,000 for computer, $80,000 for frame-buffer, $5,000 
for and $5,000 for color monitor. This means 
that none but the wealthiest artists can afford his own elec- 
tronic ‘paints-and-brushes.’ However, the cost 
everything else its way up, the cost computer 
equipment plummetting downward. five years the 
cost this equipment should within the range art 
department budget. 


Let assume thatthe artist has secured use this 
hardware, has developed some software, and has gen- 
erated some images the monitor. What are the 
possibilities him freeing his images from the electronic 
cage and putting them into some form which can hold 
his hands? Right now all can record the image 
photographic paper film. Putting video tape— 
another possibility—is just the transferral his images 
from one electronic cage another. Both methods 
involve transferring medium other than the one with 
which the artist working. This may more palatable 
one makes the analogy with the etching medium—where 
the artist works plate and prints his images onto 
paper. one could take solace the realization that most 
art seen through art magazines where the art magazine 
reader has left his imagination the sizes, true colors, and 
the textures paintings. Actually, anumerical 
constructed the transferral images from the 
monitor film that the light intensities are adjusted 
make the film image match closely possible the 
image. 

the artist does the above input-output devices, 
the versatility this medium its ability handle quite 
varying devices for input output. All that required 
that each device have wire two containing electrical 
current which varies within certain prescribed range. 
The rest within the imagination the individual design- 
ing the device. 

one considers the question which medium 
preferable—the computer paint-and-canvas, the 
answer ultimately lies with the individual. Exciting works 
boring works can produced either medium. 


Salt Lake City, Utah 
August 1975 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Gilot, Francoise, and Lake, Carlton. Life With Picasso. New York, N.Y.: 
The New American Library, Inc., 1965. 

Lebel, Robert. Duchamp. New York, N.Y.: Grossman Publishers, 
1959. 


KEN 


The computer does not make possible define 
execute complex processes—this possibility exists inde- 
pendently—but the computer does make execution fast 
enough done interactively with further human deci- 
sions, accurate enough avoid mistakes, and cheap 
enough afford great deal experimentation. Whether 
the computer defining new branch artis open and 
difficult question, particularly the area works defined 
entirely logic (i.e., those resulting from processes with 
natural input human interaction once the computer 
program has been written). This latter category, the most 
severe form would like discuss, begin- 
ning with definition art. 

What art? 

The process doing making art particular kind 
giving offering. give you something that not 
obviously related your physical psychological well- 
being—not food protection direct affirmation 
struction, then some sort symbolic gift. further- 
more anew symbol, without previously agreed upon 
referent meaning, probably trying present some- 
thing that verges being unpresentable communica- 
tion protocols established date. This symbolic 
presentation, where the symbols themselves have 
clearly defined meanings usage, shall take the 
usual (at least my) definition ‘art.’ 

work art furthermore has purpose and function. 
The artist usually intends augmentation the 
experience: may either anew and interesting 
suggestion for reorganization past and present experi- 
ence, guide organization future experience. This 
sort communication requires not agreement mean- 
ings (the usual prerequisite communication) but only 
understanding that the artist offering something 
least one receptive person. The recipient’s inferred mean- 
ings and use the work may more, less, deviant 
from, the giver’s intent hope; the recipient may may 
not addition able experience vicariously hind- 
sight the experience the artist. 

with other gifts, the psychological function clearly 
different for giver and receiver. For the artist, the function 
that producing, being vital and effective, creating, 


generating, and this sort catharsis, washing out the 
products this effort actually constructing, dispers- 
ing, and dispensing. “It more blessed give than 
receive” this context means that the experience 
having been channel flow and processing ideas and 
things, that come from somewhere and somewhere, 
usually the more soothing reward. (It also nice 
people acknowledge, appreciate, even acclaim, but for 
people whose mommies loved them this secondary 
importance.) The function art for the recipient more 
diffuse, more difficult discern deduce: art agita- 
tion which causes his/her experience enlarged 
one more many possible ways. 

The Role Tools 

Works art are produced the use tools and 
materials: brushes and paint, hammers and chisels and 
stone, torches and slabs metal. Some sets tools are 
more complicated function and use, and some cases 
the end product exhibits corresponding resultant 
complexity. 

watching painter, but not the painting progress, 
can get some idea—but not too much—of the sort work 
being produced; conversely, looking the finished 
work can infer something least about the overt activity 
involved its construction. watching author 
typewriter, but not the paper typed on, need sharp eye, 
quick mind, and good memory discern something 
about what sort novel being written. With program- 
defined computer art, the situation hopeless: watch- 
ing the programmer work, can scarcely begin 
anticipate the nature the may not even able 
guess whether sounds pictures are the goal. 


KNOWLTON 


Designs from Explicit Pattern, copyright 1970. Bell Telephone 
Laboratories, Inc. 


the degree remoteness between the inspiration 
and the product which think characterizes computer art 
more than other kinds: the long and devious way that 
thoughts and feelings and purposes map into human 
actions, the way that these actions rigorously define 
mechanical procedures, and the complicated way 
which these turn produce the result. (Even inter- 
active system where artist uses ‘new sort paint- 
brush’ apparently direct and obvious way, the nature 
the resulting art determined largely the programs 
which essentially define new medium—these programs 
consist complex set processes that have been 
selected, carefully not, from vast reservoir poten- 
tial processes and combinations, and sequences them.) 

The remoteness thought-to-result also felt 
reverse: may extraordinarily difficult look result 
and recreate anything like either the artist’s experience 
the machine’s process. Sometimes helps see 
number results: from them, the viewer can begin 
define induction the parameters the space 
possibilities. 

The Nature the Gift 

What sort enterprise endeavor it, then, for the 
person who programs and produces ‘computer art’? Very 
much the same with other artists, he/she conceives 
process and/or ultimate product and then proceeds 
construct the process which turn constructs the work. 
With the computer the tool, usually the intrigue 


new combinations, sequences, probabilities, relation- 
ships, geometries, and logic which fire the imagination 
the definition new processes; the complexities and 
austerities, made easily possible the machine, and the 
sharpness, smoothness coarseness the imagined 
result which stir sense anticipation. 

But the viewer, what sort gift offering 
computer-generated work taken be? Not only are the 
symbols new and ambiguous with other art; they seem, 
still this stage, new kinds symbols. They may 
themselves new experience—sometimes very 
delightful ways difficult achieve ‘by hand.’ But they 
readily relate other experiences. There 
uneasy suggestion that new kind symbolism trying 
emerge, but what the symbolic meanings might 
taken remains incredibly nebulous. One can scarcely 
begin infer the syntax, much less the semantics. 

seem have here something like bridge 
gapped gap not surprised that 
different people have different answers that. prefer 
think adrawbridge: sometimes down that wecan 
apply our complete set contemporary abilities our 
total set current needs—sometimes protect our- 
selves from the precisions and rigidities which the 
machines, and some extent their users, must necessari- 
follow. 


Plainfield, New Jersey 
January 1976 


JOSEPH 
SCALA 


art and artist. Most pre-school time was spent 
drawing and making things, collecting junk for other 
reason than liked the color the shape. Elementary 
school was standard city public education with its multi- 
diversions and cueing regimentation. But the desire and 
the artistic production did not wane. City high school was 


mixture excitement, encouragement and fear. Gang 
fights were the order the day and walking into the gym 
locker room find someone sprawled out the floor 
with bloody broken nose was not very unusual; didn’t 
even make the school paper. Then moved the 
suburbs with the ‘good’ school. the ‘good’ school there 
any gang fights—just mischievous teenagers who 
they happened school team had their egos 
blown the coaches the point where they thought they 
could anything and get away with and they usually 
did. This was the ‘good’ school. Reading, writing, 
arithmetic and football, not necessarily that order, 
what makes boys into men and the girls—well, the girls 
were supposed get the right man and not worry about 
anything else. the ‘good’ school one took math, 
physics, chemistry, and you make it, 
they put you art. Naturally, took the important courses 
because knew what was necessary man. 

Art school? you want abum? Are you prepared 
for art school? don’t have portfolio! Study 
chemistry—chemists make big money. One year 
chemistry from a.m. p.m. trade college 
and then transfer liberal arts college. first art 
course college was art history course taught Jules 
Olitsky. His opening remark was “Does anyone want 
buy painting for few hundred dollars?” The class 
laughed! “Professor Olitsky, like show you work.” 
believe you’ve got something, Scala. Keep working.” 
God damn! Somebody wants make art! Tuition has 
paid—nobody going support three years art— 
major, study mathematics, take art the side. Graduated 
with B.S. math—now what? Get job, get married, 
have child and make art. 

The job: first engineering aide large defense plant, 
thought about using the defense plant facilities make 


‘Exploring 52% inches. PDP-10 computer, EXPLOR system, 
line printer, enlarged program and painted with acrylic paint. 


‘ 


‘Exploring inches. PDP-10 computer, EXPLOR system, 
line printer, enlarged program and painted with acrylic paint. 


art. Nine months employment, promise promotion 
assistant engineer within several additional months, 
resigned! stand it. Three months travel 
Europe returning home penniless, carless and jobless. 
Now mathematics teacher secondary school. 

The art: where head? thinking equations and 
technology all day ... why not combine those ideas the 
art? This where left traditional art and started making 
kinetic art. Moving sculpture that generated virtual 
volumes and incorporated time fourth dimension. 
This brought some success, few sales and some 
important exhibitions. Decision time—to continue teach- 
ing full time secondary school and making art nights, 
weekends and during vacations; graduate school for 
MFA and try get college teaching job; just stop 
gainful employment and make art. chose 
graduate school and there where was first introduced 
the computer. took course computer graphics for 
architects and made first cal-comp drawing. The 
second drawing tried own was disappoint- 
ing. got the and coordinates mixed and output 
was large black mess centered the middle the page. 
that point decided that the computer was not ready for 
the artist and went back making interactive sculpture. 
After graduating from Cornell got teaching position 
the Department Experimental Studios Syracuse 
University. collaboration with engineering colleague 
designed and implemented new course art-engineer- 
ing which included topics such mechanics, light, elec- 
tronics, and their aesthetic applications. Searching for 
contemporary technology apply art took work- 
shop computer-graphics from Dr. Ken Knowlton and 
using his EXPLOR software system, which designed for 
artists, anew world opened me. EXPLOR offered 
system that could understood visually and enabled 


learn Fortran applying the Fortran language 
the solution graphic problems opposed the tradi- 
tional mathematical approach. This believed would 
the best way teach art students and artists how 
program Fortran and make graphic art the same time. 
immediately acquired the EXPLOR system and broughtit 
back Syracuse University and proceeded set and 
offer course computer-graphics especially for art 
students. worked! Within few weeks art students who 
had never seen acomputer and who mathe- 
matical training were writing programs Fortran and 
producing graphic images. 

The EXPLOR images are painted high speed line 
printer making the time between execution and finished 
print extremely fast. fact, with our DEC-writer terminals 
the image typed back almost immediately. This 
tremendous advantage for the artist because he/she can 
see the results and make changes more less inter- 
active continuous way. students came from number 
different disciplines which made the total class output 
tremendously varied. Printmakers photographed their 
computer output, made kodaliths and used the kodaliths 
produce photo-silkscreens, photo-lithos, photo-etch- 
ings and embossings. Weavers used their designs 
produce points, tapestries and rugs. Others 
painted the computer prints, drew them, colored 
them with various mediums and made collages. Still 
others made animated films and video tapes. With the 
assistance the Syracuse University computing center 
and talented computer specialist named David Carr, 
were able get the EXPLOR system outputted our 
VB10-C display. The display cathode ray tube which 
looks like T.V. and can produce the programmed images 
points light the screen. The images can then se- 
quenced that they can filmed frame atime 


= 
4 
= 


make animated movie. This capability led inter- 
disciplinary course which was put together between 
wife, Patsy Scala, who expert video art and televi- 
sion, colleague from the film department and myself. 
were able successfully integrate all three art forms and 
produce color films and color video tapes unusual de- 
sign and effect. offer this course Syracuse Univer- 
sity during the summer. The computer-art program the 
Department Experimental Studios now includes 
number different software systems which can out- 
putted the line-printer, the DECwriter terminals, the 
VB10-C display and the cal-comp plotter. One system 
presently being implemented can used design 3-d 
sculpture, another can write poetry and yet another 
created Ruth and Jay Leavitt can stretch patterns into 
different shapes. 

own work have used the computer generate 
animated sequences which have been transferred from 
film video and back film collaboration with wife. 
the present time greatest interest has been 
generating two-dimensional graphic images and allow- 
ing random elements integrate basic pattern with 


elements that artists would concerned with; namely, 
sensitivity the line, texture, variety available paper, 
size, color, ease execution and natural interaction. 
seems reasonable and limited extent happening 
that more artists start using the computer the hardware 
and software will modified for the artists’ needs. And 
the price computers continue drop the computer will 
become standard studio tool. not for every artist 
personally then collectively through centers designated 
for the exclusive production computer art. 

The impact that the computer will have art 
will greater than the impact the camera had the 
visual arts. Kids are coming out elementary school 
knowing how type and use electronic calculators, not 
computers, and them using computer make art will 
seem natural and obvious artists who now use 
pencil. Naturally not all artists will use computers but their 
work will influenced the computer and believe will 
tend toward heavily textured surfaces incorporating 
different physical materials and multi-dimensional 
size and medium. The computer will also have 
tremendous effect the film making industry 


x 


preset limits minimum and maximum dimensions. The 
random factor interest because gives the 
computer limited decision-making capability 
design which similar the controlled randomness that 
Pollock achieved dripping paint canvas. 
problem has been that where computer images seem 
integrate naturally into film and video the hardcopy output 
often has artificial machine look. For this reason have 
found necessary bring hand onto the final result 
through painting and drawing. have generated line- 
printer designs using the EXPLOR software system with 
multi-colored ribbons. far know was the first artist 
use different colored line ribbons make 
Original works computer art. The results this tech- 
nique are interesting but still feel the need work 
black and white and combine that with other techniques 
and mediums bring final work into more tradi- 
tional aesthetic plane. 

The artist has moved which was originally 
designed for the military, scientific and business com- 
munities. The available hardware was designed for effi- 
ciency and speed output and did not take into account 


‘Exploring 40% inches. PDP-10 
computer, EXPLOR system, line printer, en- 
larged program and painted with acrylic 
paint. 


becoming the standard device for special effects, well 
abstract video art and animation. Environmental 
artists will design around and with the computer. addi- 
tion believe the use the computer make art has hada 
effect the computer technologist. Aesthetics 
has become major parameter the technical decision- 
making process and more artists become tech- 
nologically oriented and become 
aesthetically aware the future may bring back 
union art and science and the genius Vinci. 
definitely tool for the production art 
but more than just tool. new way com- 
municating between persons and the technological en- 
vironment. The computer the electronic interface 
between human thought and aesthetic expression which 
will allow human kind tap and communicate those cords 
humanity necessary for the continuation human 
existence with and our scientific-technological culture. 


Syracuse, New York 
October 1975 


i 
alt 
: 3 


KAREN 
HUFF 


COMPUTER WEAVING: 
MODERN TECHNOLOGY 
CONFRONTS ANCIENT CRAFT* 


both handweaver and computer scientist, 
always interested ways apply the power the 
computer the study weaving. So, had 
opportunity experiment with the capabilities 
plotter, saw chance study textile structure through 
diagrams drawn computer. Other computer applica- 
tions weaving have been but none had 
attempted exploit the potential the plotter the 
primary visual output device. 

Mention plotters almost automatically raises visions 
graphs, maps, perspective views. Because 
these are the typical uses plotter, these are also the 
applications for which support packages have been 
developed make the plotter more accessible. But this 
accessibility tends channel potential plotter use along 
these already well-traveled paths. 


Computer Weaving, figure standard drafting system showing three 
repeats Waffle Weave. 


What obscured the fact that plotter general 
purpose line-drawing device. After all, everything cando 
accomplished with two primitive functions, drawing 
straight line and moving new position without draw- 
ing. The weaving application had mind might demon- 
strate the usefulness the plotter role. 
With big smile, told colleagues the Kansas State 
University Computing Center that was going “teach 
the computer weave.” 


Historical Loom-Computer Connection 

That computers should now used textile 
applications merely brings full circle the historical 
connection between looms and computers. Charles 
Babbage (1792-1871) conceived the idea general- 
purpose, programmable computer around 1833, at- 
tributing his inspiration directly the Jacquard 
The pattern woven Jacquard loom (invented 1805) 
controlled string pasteboard cards laced 
together and processed sequentially, with the woven 
pattern determined the arrangement holes punched 
the cards. Here the origin the punched card 
concept! 

With the Jacquard mind, Babbage envisioned 
computer with astring program cards directing se- 
quential arithmetic operations according punched holes 
and string data cards specifying the operands the 
calculations. Babbage realized that the Jacquard card 
system could used store coded information 
achieve the mechanical actions needed drive his 
‘Analytical Engine.’ contemporary commentator 
wrote, “We may say most aptly, that the Analytical Engine 
weaves algebraical patterns just the Jacquard loom 
weaves flowers and leaves.” 


Plots Textile Structure 

The inspiration for experiments was capitalize 
the unique line-drawing capabilities the plotter 
diagram new representation textile structure. The 
traditional graph-paper approach (Figure shows the 
three essential elements the weaving instructions— 
threading, tie-up, and treadling (collectively, the draft)— 
aligned diagram. Thiscloth diagram 
shows the exact interlacement the (vertical) warp 


' 


~ 


Computer Weaving, figure computer-generated diagram; compare 
figure 


12345 


TIE-UP 


| 
m 


12345678 


threads with the (horizontal) weft threads. Each warp-weft 
crossing represented square the graph paper, 
white weft crosses over warp, black warp crosses over 
weft. While this representation shows the design clearly, 
look very much like fabric. 

What if, instead, the cloth diagram were use lines 
represent the individual warp and weft threads, with 
breaks showing where some threads cross under others? 
Such lines, drawn with broad point pen, might look 
much more like the threads actual fabric magnified for 
study purposes. Would such representation, with its 
totally different appearance, shed the nature 
weaving structure and how that structure can best 
exploited the design process? That was the central 
question for experiments. 


Weaving Structure Fundamentals 

order able write computer program plot 
such textile illustration, had thoroughly familiar 
with the basics weaving structure myself. reviewed 
these fundamentals. The essence structure reduces toa 
pattern warp and weft crossings—where does the warp 
cross over the weft, and where does cross under? 

Handweavers can look fabric structure from one 
two points view. Given complete draft, weaver will 
want know what the structural appearance the woven 
fabric will like. This question answered writing 
down the threading, tie-up, and treadling graph paper 
and working out the cloth diagram. Weavers find this fairly 
straightforward, since amounts imitating the actions 
the loom successive groups warp threads are 
raised that the weft thread may pass under its back- 
and-forth course. 

the other hand, not uncommon for weaver 
admire piece fabric, handwoven not, and want 
know how could woven. this case, there only the 
cloth diagram represented the finished fabric itself; this 
must copied onto graph paper, and then the threading, 
tie-up, and treadling can generated from it. Without the 
natural parallels the physical process weaving, this 
task rather abstract and therefore rather more tedious. 

both cases, there simple repetitive procedure 
follow generating the missing element from the 


figure ‘Apparel Yardage Extended Twill’. 


information hand.* This skill ‘weaving paper’ 
should every repertoire, and this skill 
was exactly what wished embody computer 
program which would plot textile structure. ‘Weaving 
has all the negative attributes rote hand opera- 
tion—it tedious, time-consuming, and prone error. 
Therefore expected bonus for transferring auto- 
matic computer operation, bonus accuracy and ease- 
of-use. 


Computer Implementation 

Because all the weaving data fits naturally into two- 
dimensional array form, designing and writing the pro- 
gram was straightforward. taking advantage the 
language features PL/1, was able design input 
form easy for weavers (or naive computer users) work 
with. Almost all the plotting was accomplished with the 
two plotting primitives; the only other plotting function 
used was the plots text annotations. Because 
few plotting support routines were needed, made sense 
enjoy the use PL/1 and fake the expected Fortran 
calling protocol needed. The program was developed 
IBM 370/158 using CalComp 663 drum plotter. 

With this versatile tool for textile studies finger- 
tips, selected variety drafts with which experi- 
ment, see what could learned about structure from 
the computer-generated illustrations. With the computer 
assuming responsibility for the tedious part the 
processing, found that very little time had generated 
many illustrations study. Some examples are given 
Figures 2-4. 

Insights From Computer Diagrams 

first, was disappointed that the computer diagrams 
did not have the striking impact the traditional repre- 
sentation. This can seen comparing Figures and 
which are the same draft. soon realized, however, 
that the reason for this lies the built-in color bias the 
traditional form. The cloth diagram graph paper 
actually shows white weft and black warp, whereas 
both warp and weft are black the computer version. 

Here clear evidence the key role played 
enhancing suppressing the visual design possibilities 
given draft. Because the color bias removed, the 


| | —— | —— 
| | | \/ A 
1234 
| 


figure ‘Cat Tracks’. 


ORAFT 
eee 
aee 


DRAFT 


Summer and Winter’. 


figure 


TIE-UP 
1234 


figure Fancy’. 


computer diagram more pure representation fabric 
structure alone. Designing color schemes based these 
diagrams free any predisposition toward built-in color 
properties. 

next found that the representation used the 
computer illustrations actually encouraged examine 
the structure detailed level, forexample, 
following the paths individual threads. saw new ways 
and means tailoring yarn and color 
specific draft. figure forexample, the warp threads 
harnesses and follow path long skips; they are 
prominent the structure. take advantage this, 
fancy yarn could threaded there emphasize its 
decorative value; or, certain color yarn could 
threaded there emphasize its color value. These 
insights are due the more realistic thread representa- 
tion used the computer diagrams. 

happened, some computer illustrations were 
drafts for which had pictures finished woven fabric. 
comparing the illustrations with the pictures, the 
importance what happens fabric after removed 
from the loom was made very clear. For many weaves, the 
characteristic texture will develop only after the loom 
tension removed and the yarns are allowed relax into 
their new positions. Even simple plain weave “softens” 
appearance well texture after removal from 
this softening completed the first washing the 
fabric. 

studying the computer illustrations, this kind 
softening contours the weave can predicted. Areas 
close thread interlacement will draw together propor- 
tionately more than areas loose interlacement. For 
example, again Figure the 3-dimensional “waffle” 
characteristic this weave will develop the plain weave 
areas draw together, further emphasizing the long skips 
the areas looser interlacement. 

illustration showing many design repeats, these 
differing design areas can readily recognized and their 
interrelationships examined. While tedious diagram 
many repeats hand, the computer program can 
diagram many easily one, thereby encouraging this 
kind study. 

Design Implications 

studied the computer diagrams, found myself 
looking the weaving design process new 
perspective. experiments showed that structure 
itself aseparate and crucial design element, one three 
along with yarn and color. Each element must comple- 
ment the others for the total design effective; the 
structure, yarns, and colors must all work together, 
whether each assumes major subordinate role. 

yarn are shared all the fiber 
arts—weaving well knitting, crocheting, knotting, 
twining, and braiding. The structural characteristics 
distinguish any one from any the others. Anni Albers 
has suggested that the historical supremacy weaving 
over the other fiber arts was due the ease with which 
weaving structure lent itself 


Further Developments 

Because the program was convenient use, 
continued make plots regularly help with own 
design work. often went down the machine room 
watch the plots progress, and seeing the partially 
finished plots suggested further developments which 
might attempted. interesting effect was created 
when only the weft threads had been plotted, and the warp 
not yet laid across it. What some program options were 
added that only the weft would plotted, and that 
plotted very heavily? Would this approach simulate the 
design appearance weaving systems, such colonial 
overshot, where dark weft forms pattern against alight 


background warp? 
For such systems, there are traditional ways weaving 


which give standard structure and texture; the design 


problem for these systems one creating and/or 
adjusting pattern pleasing proportions. Although the 
emphasis would entirely opposite had already 
done (concentrating oncolor differences rather than 
removing them), could pursue this new approach with 
minor extensions the existing program. 

most interesting problem arose while making these 
extensions. The program required considerable adjust- 
ment give the desired visual effect. When the weft lines 
were too long thin, the pattern was lost ajumble— 
even though knew what pattern look for, 
not resurrect it. tuned the plotting shortening and 
widening the lines, the pattern emerged, first tenta- 
tively and finally with great clarity. fact, for sheer drama, 
would hard improve the new plot style. 

Once the plotting was adjustment, quickly generated 
diagrams several systems. Colonial overshot, which 
considerable historic importance, represented 
Figure When selecting such draft, the weaver needs 
know which part the draft corresponds which part 
the pattern motif; or, the weaver wants coordinate 
pattern with border motif, and needs know how the 
two will fit together. The new style plots meets these 
needs. Figure also shows the optical illusion quality 
found many overshot patterns, and can viewed 
interesting design independent weaving interpreta- 
tion. 

system such summer and winter has several classic 
textures, all slight treadling variations the same basic 
threading. order understand the differences between 
them, they can plotted and compared Figure 
Then there are basic threadings which have virtually limit- 
less variations with large range potential patterns. 
Instead weaving samples these pattern variations, itis 
possible plot samplers showing the many possibilities. 
Such sampler for Fancy shown Figure 

With the addition this new feature, the program has 
become quite versatile learning and design tool. The 
value computer weaving lies both the automatic 
nature the program well the visually meaningful 
diagrams possible plotter. This creates 
designer-weaver opportunity rich for exploration 
where creative energies may concentrated creative 
experimentation. Charles Babbage would doubt 
pleased see that modern computers are repaying the 
long-standing debt they owe weaving the currency 
applications such this. 


Manhattan, Kansas 
September 1975 


REFERENCES 


Lourie, Janice. Textile Graphics/Computer-Aided. New York: Fairchild 
Publications, 1973. 

Velderman, Pat. “Computer Generated Overshot Variations.” Hand- 
weaver and Craftsman. Fall, 1971. Pgs. 10-11. 

Babbage, Charles. Charles Babbage and His Calculating Engines. Ed. 
Philip and Emily Morrison. New York: Dover, 1961. 

Frey, Berta. Designing and Drafting for Handweavers. New York: 
Macmillan Company, 1958. Chapts. 1-2. 

Albers, Anni. Weaving. Middletown, Connecticut: Wesleyan 
University Press, 1965. 


*This paper was published part under the title “The Computer Learns 
Weave” Shuttle Spindle Dyepot, Fall 1975. reprinted here with the 
permission the Handweavers Guild America, Inc., Copyright 1975, all 
rights reserved. 


MILJENENKO 
HORVAT 


have particular theory philosophy about 
work. try to.do like and able do—tech- 
nically speaking. try answer your questions 

“How/why did you become involved with the computer 
(in producing art)?” 
was available—or almost—so tried and liked it. 


“What your art background?” 
painter since mid-fifties. 
“What role does the computer play for you ... simula- 

tion, tool, etc.? What your role?” 

Extremely fast executing tool. 

“Are your computer works related non-computer 
art?” 

not related very slightly. 

“Do you have final image mind when work begins?” 

Yes, but not always very clear one. 

“Could your work done without the aid 
computer? yes, why use the computer?” 

course could done without computer. But 
produce the same amount work, would take couple 
thousand times more time and energy than can 
afford. 

“To what extent are you involved the technical 
production your work, for example, 

work closely with Serge Poulard, excellent pro- 
grammer. 

“Do you feel art work created with computer has now 
will have impact art whole the future?” 

has very little impact now art whole; hope the 
impact will grow the future. 

“Do you intend continue using the computer create 
art pieces?” 

Yes. 

“Do you recommend the use the computer for others 
creating works art?” 

Yes, but only the use the computer justified 
creative needs sensibility particular artist. 


Montreal, Canada 
October 1975 


=) 


electrostatic point printer drawing. 


JOHN 
WHITNEY 


COMPUTATIONAL 
PERIODICS 


may assume that time will come when that which 
about describe will name itself—but for now: 
‘Computational periodics’ propositional and tenta- 
tive term which may help designate new unified field 
for heterodimensional art; field whose special dimen- 
sion time. art which temporal, music itself; 
being, that is, spatio-temporal. art whose time has 
come because computer technology and art which 
could not exist before the computer. Even though this art 
will found the notebooks Leonardo and has been 
the collective imagination, like the flying-machine, 
since his epoch was technological impossibility until 
the development computer graphics. 

Rhythm, meter, frequency, tonality and intensity are the 
periodic parameters music. There similar group 
parameters that set forth picture domain valid and 
fertile the counterpoised domain sound. This visual 
domain defined parameters which are also periodic. 
‘Computational periodics’ then new term which 
needed identify and distinguish this multidimensional 
art for eye and ear that resides exclusively within 
computer technology. For notwithstanding man’s historic 
efforts bridge the two worlds music and art through 
dance and theatre, the computer his first 
can integrate and manipulate image and sound way 
that valid for visual, for aural, perception. 

That rare talent the composer create music which 
self sustaining, i.e., the power music capture and hold 
our attention, sophisticated and subtle art which has 


been the exclusive gift only few composers each 
many past generations. was pedagogic skill, however, 
that pupil might learn, provided himself 
possessed with latent genius. this century all that 
pedagogy has been reduced anxious uncertainty. The 
harmonic and metric traditions, for one thing, seem 
untranslatable into the new periodic resources 
abound computer technology. The body knowledge 
that resulted, the nineteenth century, musical works 
ponderous scale and proportion, lost art. the 
standards the Baroque era the present has retro- 
gressed infantilism. 

The new composer, and the visual artist who may aspire 
deal with teleonomic structures, could well the 
child some early dark age. The Twentieth Century 
began with technology and has reaped whirlwind 
cultural dislocations and amnesia. Materials and forms 
and attitudes are altered that past traditions are 
generally moribund. 

Also from the point view that this Century but 
episode the life human culture, clear that more 
paraphernalia this epoch may castoff than will 
survive into the next. Yet surely the computer will not. 
solid state image storage system will replace the silver 
chemical ribbon and cinema will eventually interred 
the archival museum. But computer and computer 
graphics bring mind the kind tools that may char- 
acterize age succeeding this century’s age the 
machine. 

The computer the coequal the entire repertoire 
musical instrumentation and heir that domain 
musical sound. the same time, the computer the ulti- 
mate kinetic image generative instrument. The kinetic 
image truth the creation computer graphics since 
the cine television camera but recording device and 
the hand-drawn image motion but cartoon 
motion. 

Tatlin, Rodchenko, Gabo, Moholy-Nagy, Fontana, 
Duchamp, Kandinsky, Mondrian, Pollock and twice that 
many more artists this century testify the drive toward 
dynamic organization energy and force art. And 
toward ephemeralization the art object painting and 
sculpture. The past decade has seen that direction lead 
many artists cinema, exotic technology and experi- 
ments with cybernetics. Yet has passed generally 
unnoticed that this preoccupation the last one hundred 
years has been toward musicalization visual art. For 
the urge produce abstract architectonic structures that 
possess fluid transformability visual space less 
than grand aspiration toward music’s double the 
visible world. preoccupation with art this exclu- 
sive sense that may use the term computational 
periodics. 


Pacific Palisades, California 
November 1975 


film titled ‘Arabesque’, 1975. 


& 
& € 
> 
oO 


HERBERT 
FRANKE 


GRAPHIC MUSIC 


The question, what was there before: the idea the 
medium, lively discussed among scientists. The 
technical medium, created only soon the 
there? For its realization needed? the technical 
know-how from which arises the stimulation idea? 
Practice shows examples for both cases, where the 
fundamental rule value: the availability technical 
knowledge and technical means presents limiting 
factor for the realization ideas. This rule value not 
only for art but also for technology. 


phase picture from the film. 


may conceive artworks offers perception. 
Every presentation art must give opportunity for 
conveyance information. The particularity aesthetic 
communication lies purposeful preparation the 
information-model, adaption the ability and readi- 
ness for the perceptible reception, and the working 
toward the addressee. Therefore particularly impor- 
tant that the process perception succeeds well and 
continues for long time. 

inventory the realm art, shows that 
possible have distribution the types art beyond 
the sense-channel. Next have decide whether the art 
form static kinetic, temporarily changeable, 
presentation. 


Heavy-Weight 
the Static Kinetic 
Presentation 


Syntactic Irrelevant Picture (Starts fireworks, water 
EYE plays, kaleidoscope, etc.) 


Semantic Graphic Picture film, pantomime 
written text 


Music 


Static Auditive 


Semantic Recitation, radio-play 


Starts irrelevant animated 
Not Practicable cartoons and experimental- 


AND film, partly ballet 
EAR Sound-film, theater, and 
Semantic the like, partly ballet 


this table only the senses seeing and hearing, which 
are essential for art, are considered. However, there are 
artlike activities which appeal other sense-organs, for 
example the ‘art cooking.’ But the spectrum impres- 
sions derivable from cooking too narrow produce the 
abundance and variety impressions that expect from 
genuine art. 

point which very important for art the 
distinct effect the syntactic and semantic planes 
respectively. the distinction between irrelevant 
models, which impress perhaps with formal harmonical 
beauty, and the enciphering sense capacity. able 
set his mind separately upon different planes struc- 
turing, for example the syntactical and the 
semantical one, but understandably the inclination 
occupy himself first with ‘sense’ statements and the like. 
Only subsequent manufacturing phases result the 
abstracting mental attitude other order systems 
anchored art objects. 

the table certain spot marked question mark. 
The point represents the unobjective visual presentation 
which corresponds music the realm auditive art 
forms. 

This good example how much the lack tech- 
nical means may influence cultural developments. While 
music there were very early technical mediums for 
managing sound-effects, the real possibilities lie the 
visual realm, but were not realized. The idea graphic 
play forms, ‘Graphic Music’ could only realized since 
the development optical-electronic means. 

Therefore ask whether the requirement such art 
form exists. Often presumed that the absence such 
artform goes back the deficiency this need. But 
shows that man possesses appreciation forms and 
colors dynamic movement. The fascination starting 
from the observation waterwaves and flames proof 


SS = 7 
S85 


this. But there are also historical examples where there 
were attempts create techniques realize this idea. 
Examples this are fireworks, artificial water-plays, 
perhaps fountains illuminated colors 
Kaleidoscope. But all these techniques have many faults. 
For instance difficult control these apparitions. 
Moreover, they offer relatively small complexity 
perceptual effects. principle possibility for the realiza- 
tion ‘Graphic Music’ was offered first the trickfilm 
its original form, the animated cartoon; practicability 
missing. The production phase pictures extremely 
troublesome, taking much time and very expensive. 
This example clearly shows that technical means alone 
are inadequate; economic feasibility also required. 
Another assumption relates control. The physical and 
psychological qualities must performed with rela- 
tively high exactitude where the degree accuracy 
determined the power distinction the sense- 
organs. required that, means Artform, there 
should produced the best possible realization shall 
not exhaust itself too quickly. But this only possible 
one bestows certain complexity the aesthetical 
pattern. you use graphform, which very inaccurate 
and superimposed chance, this complexity highly 
restricted. The possibilities determined the certain art- 
form will reduced unnecessarily; the band-width the 
human senses not utilized. The most favorable condi- 
tions are where one can produce elements for construct- 
ing aesthetical patterns with high exactitude that they 
may described and reproduced. Then possible 
build these elements greatly varied aggregations. 

The best example this western harmonic music with 
its different styles. Music-instruments are nothing else 
than physical precision-machines which allow 
produce exactly reproducible acoustic effects. Ex- 
perience shows that small deviations from the elementary 
frequencies, instruments out tune, make very difficult 
obtain recordings high quality, and produce 
unpleasant experiences with perception. 

The first technical instrument which allows realize 
the idea graphic music the computer with annexed 
graphic delivery gear. Elementary units, for example may 
line-elements tokens arranged ascreen. The first 
computer-graphic offered very 
restricted possibilities. They used the same methods 
film making with the only difference being that the 
production the phase-pictures was controlled accor- 
ding program. The transition allows view 
graphic motion-pictures real time the fluorescent 
screen. Interactive systems allow direct exertion 
influence the produced pictures. Thus becomes 
possible beyond the projected linear course—as 
relates film and become sort ‘Graphic improvisa- 
tion.’ Corresponding what usual music, the field 
computer-art was founded, breaking new ground and 
filling particular void the scheme possible 
forms. 

this direction there were executed practical experi- 
ments, especially John Whitney and his sons and 
Kenneth Knowlton and Lillian Schwartz. the Siemens 
Research Laboratory the author had access 
tion which was capable free graphic improvisation 
through its interactive system. program written 
Gerhard Geitz, Monika Gonauser, Egon Horbst and Peter 
Schinner for the projection rotating geometric figura- 
tions was enlarged that Groundstructure har- 
monical geometric courses grew possible. Through 
aesthetical exploitation the picture elements are built 
successively regular space-angle intervals leading 
wandering superpositions, whose projections execute 
complicated movements upon the picture plane. This 


fundamental course serves speak, raw material for 
further processing, which now takes place interactively. 
Angle intervals and rate change position may 
modified. choice large angle-intervals introduces the 
effect chance and the diminution the angle-interval 
the heterogyne figures leads back again state 
Original order. 

This program offers quiet and harmonical picture 
influences where the degree order still raised 
symmetric and counter-running movements. Although 
from the console only few parameters may changed, 


phase picture from the film. 


still possible obtain wide variety effects. The 
interspersing stochastical effects (where the harmony 
destroyed) form very drastic phases the regularity 
movement. 

Out our perception-customs are trained recog- 
nize visual and auditive Information-patterns. The lack 
sound the described courses felt very negatively 
several sides. Conceivably would possible enlarge 
the program include auditive effects. However, another 
possibility was used—musicians freely improvised with 
simultaneously projected graphical passages. From this 
two ten-minute Computer films ‘Rotations’ and ‘Projec- 
tions’ were produced. The sound for one film was added 
during Computer-Workshop July 1974, Bonn where 
musicians freely improvised with electronic instruments. 
The sound for the second film was added the Inter- 
national Musicforum 1974 Breitenbrunn, Burgenland, 
Austria. This time some highly qualified free-jazz 


Phase pictures from the films used create ‘Graphic Music’. 


musicians participated. Participating this experiment 
was group ten musicians. During another showing 
the film group took part, among them Berger 
and Fritz Bauer. 

The presentation took place public, incorporating the 
audience into the experiment. the discussion which 
followed every participant could express his interpreta- 
tion. Overall the reaction was positive. However, the visual 
display was difficult for people relate to. was too 
unusual make value judgments. While our environment 
confronts from childhood with musical presentations, 
bring along scarcely any knowledge graphic 
passages. Evidently, because this, the natural under- 
standing have music missing, which causes rapid 
fatigue. The spectator asks for more variety graphical 


presentations than does acoustical presentation. 
Such performances abstract graphic plays should not 
surpass ten minutes with uninitiated public. Apart from 
objections this sort, the effects the public were 
extremely favorable. shows that graphical music 
offers the potential develop into complex and 
differentiated form, the case with usual music. With 
film and television have today our disposal the 
optical means delivery and the practical assumptions 
for the spreading new aesthetical forms presenta- 
tion. These could grow genuine enrichment our 
cultural life. 


Munich, Germany 
August 1975 


CHARLES 
CSURI 


STATISTICS 
INTERACTIVE 
ART OBJECT 


There are many instances where artists have used the 
direct analysis nature (real-world data) create art. 
One example Monet, who worked directly from nature 
developing relationships color and light based upon 
new theories color. Cezanne’s art also epitomized 
expression formal color relationships inspired 
external objects scenes. Artists like Picasso, 
Duchamp, and later the and early 
Rauschenberg and Segal used real-world objects their 
art. Objects such bicycle seat, chair, auto- 
mobile door coke machine combined with other 
materials were used create new context for expres- 
sion. With Kaprow’s ‘Happenings’ one appreciates 
further extensions real-world data include total 
environments and society art. The Conceptual Art 
movement represented other methods and attitudes 
about objects, abstraction and art—for example, the use 
words boldly written large blueprint paper 
describing the physical characteristics hand; the 


The pictures the and ‘violins’ (virtual intersection two musical 
instruments) illustrate the use a3D visible surface algorithm for concave 
polyhedra. 


words themselves and the blueprint become the art 
object cuing mental picture the hand. 

Artists are constantly re-evaluating nature (real-world 
data) searching for new modes express some 
personally felt view the world and their relationship 
it. One might suggest artists utilize real-world data 
express view reality through the application trans- 
formations this data. 

Data for artistic expression includes the numerical 
statistical representation the external world. mass 
society, are constantly measuring and evaluating our- 
selves order understand our problems and our 
needs. have statistics which are constantly being 
updated about unemployment, crime, traffic accidents, 
divorce, mental illness, birth and death, alcoholics, 
acreage green space, pollution, longevity .... and 
many more. 

There need understand and solve complex social 
problems. Through the advent computer technology, 
have developed enormous capacity create large 
data-bases and programs that print out mountains 
phenomenal one, generally have difficulty know- 
ing how interpret such data. This data can 
extremely complex, especially one deals with trends, 
multivariant relationships, dispersion and variation. Many 
social scientists choose limit themselves numeric 
representations such data the belief that this 
represents position neutrality objectivity. Bider- 
and relatively small group researchers claim 
that there critical need improve communication 
and understanding this information. Improved visual 


presentation techniques can help make more rational 
decisions about how use resources and solve social 
problems. 

Statistics way making quantitative measure- 
ments and looking reality. Rather than looking the 
visual form the external appearance reality, the artist 
can now deal directly with content. anew conceptual 
landscape with its mountains, valleys, flat spaces, dark 
and light with gradations texture and color. With 
computers, the artist can look statistics representing 
real-world data about every facet society—its 
problems reflecting tragic, comic and even surrealistic 
viewpoints. The artist has opportunities express his 
perceptions reality new way. 


Interactive computer graphics offers mode inter- 
acting with information which direct, making the 
numeric representations data more communicative. 
The user can interact with mathematical models that 
simulate social systems abstract processes even 
aesthetic objects. Through computer 
graphics, the user given dynamic and pictorial means 
view the process change that consequence his 
intervention. This enables the user better understand 
the complex relationships that produce the results for 
which his intervention responsible. 

Additional software capabilities provide the user with 
the ability modify system parameters through inter- 
active devices and alter curvilinear relationships 
without ever having think numbers. The simulation 
model the same, but its value has been improved 
reducing the demands makes the user’s prior knowl- 
edge. 

Many the techniques used the people-machine 
communication problems can applied computer art 
and simulations related aesthetic concerns. Most 
people are inclined think computer art either static 
graphics animated film. few instances, physical art 
Objects interfaced computer involving sensors 
reacting sound heat modify some componentin 
the object establishing new set relationships. Another 
alternative view computer art real-time object 
involving user participation and control. The real-time 
computer art object intellectual concept which 
made manifest visual experience rather than 
finalized material object. This kind computer art exists 
only for the time the participant and the computer with 
CRT display are interacting process. The art object 
not the computer the display, but the activity both 
interacting with the participant. addition its artistic 
parameters, the content this art form dependent upon 
the dynamics real-time process which gives vitality 
and life the visual display through animation and user 
interaction. Instant visual feedback for the purpose 
examining alternatives another important feature 
such objects. Each participant afforded the opportunity 
experience the aesthetic object unique level 
depending upon his background and training. 

Real-time computer art systems are designed 
aesthetic experience realized for the user through 
participation. The passive ‘viewer’ must become active 
‘participant’ the actual context provided the system. 
case can made for the idea that art can alter percep- 
tion, and that since perception active organizing 
process rather than passive retention-of-image causa- 
tion, only actively participating with the art object can 
one perceive it—and thus, perceiving it, change one’s 
reality structure. 

practical illustration real-time art object which 
uses real-world data base interactive system 
involving animation/graphics and statistical algorithm. 
The algorithm was developed into computer program 
and general explanation offered background 


material. 

The AID (Automatic Interaction Detector) program was 
originally developed 1963 the University Michigan. 
can potentially used any analysis which one 
attempting explain the variance the dependent 
variable some combination independent predictor 
variables. The program differs from the conventional 
multiple regression techniques that assumptions 
about the linearity the model need made, and that the 
predictor variables may exhibit many types inter- 
actions without invalidating the analysis. 

The AID technique able examine the interrelation- 
ships 140 predictors. One the variables 
selected dependent variable. The technique repeated- 
partitions the data into two groups minimize the error 
sums squares the dependent variable. The output 
the program essentially tree which summarizes the 
splitting process which took place. The symmetry non- 
symmetry the resulting tree reflects the interactions 
the predictors. The tree may then plotted 
number user-specified terminating conditions can 
cause the splitting process stop. The output the AID 
technique generally presented reports the form 
trees where each node tree represents set 
predictor variables. The mean value the dependent vari- 
able, the number observations, the predictor values, 
and the standard deviation generally included for each 
node. 


The following description the interactive graphics 
has been implemented and simulation based upon 
the AID program. The participant user seated 
front the CRT which interfaced computer, and 
there are interactive devices such dials, function keys, 
light pen, joystick, 3-D sonic pen and keyboard. (The 
computer PDP-11/45 and the graphics display 
Vector General.) 

This graphics simulation model starts growing 
AID tree and the user watches for relationships between 
variables the tree created. the case with the AID 
program, there order the growth the tree. 
Lower branches the tree can deleted the user 
desires reverse this process. One has stored the 
computer simulation the history (past and projected 
future) (real-world data) like key frames anima- 
tion sequence. Through techniques linear interpola- 
tion, smooth and continuous movement through time 
achieved. The joystick enables one control time and 
pushing forward, the user moves forward time and 
pulling backward, time reversed. the CRT, the 
user has clock the lower portion the screen; two- 
dimensional scale located the top; and AID struc- 
ture located the middle. the user moves the joy- 
stick, the structure changes shape and position, the clock 
moves, for instance, from 1024 2048—all this 
dynamically real-time. pressing function key and 
moving the joystick, the user can select single variable 
and move forward backward through time. The same 
procedure used for both linear and shaded pictures. 
The graphics can dynamically show critical path 
development indicating route the most important 
variable the data; the lines brighten the path 
developed. 

Three-dimensional data representation also used 
this model. The tree structures are layered stacked 
through the axis with each slide representing intervals 
created connecting lines between slices time. The 
front face the cube represents current time and the 
surface behind the face shows the history. The user can 
rotate the three-dimensional model and with the joystick 
control one can simulate moving through time and the 


thickness the layers can symbolize other factors. Then 
one can rotate the structure angle where one can 
see the top view. This illustrates more conventional 
terms, the typical chart with scale for time along one 
axis and the percentage the data along another axis. 

While the AID program represented tree struc- 
ture, some algorithms might use model molecular 
structure. The structure would grow and change color 
maintaining connectivity with the thickness and color 
the connections conveying pertinent information. One 
could use various geometric objects represent kinetic 
models that involve multiple objects and surfaces. Then 
one could interactively move them through 3-D space 
and they could change color, shape and size with the 
speed movement indicating relationships the data. 
Some objects could represented computer 
program such that they might seem made 
elastic material. function key might indicate some vari- 
able the program. With 3-D sonic pen and stereo 
pair viewing system, one could ‘touch’ the elastic object 
and would dynamically change its shape; using another 
variable would change shape differently with the shape 
itself conveying meaningful data. 

The Computer Graphics Research Group The Ohio 
State University has one its research goals the soft- 
ware development for color video display graphics 


tool for research scientists. The same hardware and soft- 
ware system could linked two-way cable TV. 
remote sets and terminals, audiences could par- 
ticipate with statistical art object. 

While the original motivation the visual representa- 
tion statistical data intended help 
the analysis and communication societal problems, 
has great potential material for artistic expression. 
Artists have significant role the social science 
aspects such concerns, but they can also approach 
real-world data from purely artistic position express 
their views reality. 


Columbus, Ohio 
September 1975 


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS: 


especially indebted the Computer Graphics Research Group for 
the software and hardware developments which made this experiment 
possible. Ronald Hackathorn and Allan Myers did the programming for 
the interactive AID simulation model. George Tressel brought the AID 
program attention and his comments and suggestions are greatly 
appreciated. The National Science Foundation provided the basic support 
for the CGRG under grant number DCR 74-00768A01 for the 
ment real-time animation/graphics techniques tool for the re- 
search scientist. 
for Social Indicators,” Albert Biderman, Bureau 
Social Research Report, 1971. 


= 
2g $ /| \ 
4 
of - 


CHRISTOPHER 


WILLIAM 
TYLER 


was drawn into computer art spin-off from experi- 
ments visual perception, which required the produc- 
tion complex visual stimuli both analog components 
and digital computers. This attempt express 
some amazement the nervous system giving 
rise the subtleties perception. The electronic systems 
that call computers seemed interesting way 
about it, and doing discovered number view- 
points about the role computers. 


The computer system serves multiple role canvas 
and environment, tool and creator. The the 
range output devices, from line printer microfilm 
plotter, from oscilloscope screen the control laser 
beams. new medium work on, with its limitations and 
idiosyncrasies, has often served send art different 
tack the past; the canvas computer peripherals 
might sufficient again. But computers have 
vastly more offer than that. 

One the trends recent art has been the tendency 
operate selecting from environment entities that 
have significance the artist rather than creating from 
scratch rasa. This approach can traced back 
the Zen potters China who allowed the glazes form 
patterns the heat the kiln and then choose particularly 
fine examples the result. The same type selection 
with minimal control over the medium the basis for 
much photography (but less film-making), dadaist 
art, kinetic art and other approaches, and think typical 
the use complex technology. The instruments which 
are thought tools the disposal the artist become 
part the environment which the art produced. The 
artist selects the output ‘cybernetic serendipity.’ The 
constraints which would considered limitations the 
case simple tool such brush become source 
inspiration and subject matter the case complex 
tool like computer. Although one accustomed 
thinking that anything possible computer, 
practice the hardware making the system, the avail- 
able programs and cost limitations adaptive 
environment which can serve the artist continual 
source ideas. 

The computer can itself act the creator the ability 
generate random (or pseudorandom) sequences 
numbers. low level this can operate 
produce the arrangement patterns the selection 


‘Morphonome 


\ 
= = 
\\ 
| \\ 


elements for design, and many computer artists have 
utilized this process great effect. But principle the 
random process can used the generation the 
program itself; metarandom organization the genera- 
tive process. practice this likely lead many pro- 
grams which are inexecutable given computer 
system, but analogous process operates human 
creativity. Many false starts and abortive attempts may 
made before workable design produced. 


This brings new definition computer art—art 
produced the computer which essentially out the 
control its operator. The entirely unexpected results 
concatenations program elements, intended serve 
other mundane purposes. One the finest graph plots 
have come across was generated automatic draft- 
ing machine which inexplicably developed fault and 
went produce string figure beauty. Re- 
running the program failed reproduce the fault, which 
was evanescent excursion into the realm autogenic 
computer art. 

Another example computer generation the 
Kaleidoscope program DEC, which uses random 
inputs the observer build the program controlling 
dynamic display. Rather than the display being con- 
trolled the user, the program accreted under user 


initiation produce unique organization each run. 
When this kind activity produced with sufficient 
flexibility, can truly called computer art. 


The present inspiration for work comes from the 
‘Morphonome sinusoid—that mathematical wiggle which can transcend 
the operations addition, subtraction, multiplication, 
division, integration and differentiation, and emerge 
unscathed. mathematically the simplest form 
oscillation, and such represents the whole domain 
periodic events that mean much the process life. 
The waves, the tides, the diurnal and seasonal variations. 
Light waves, sound waves, radiations and vibrations. 
Rotation and periodic cycles, repetitions and echoes, 
oscillations and pulsations, palpitations and ululations— 
all flow into the image wish produce. 


‘Autonome 


~ 


| 


te 


ae 
rae 
«age 


Morphonome 


ae 
thager 
ERE IRONED » 
Perse 
- as 
‘ 
4 
35 
DRED 
re 
- 
| 
| 
| 


the study human visual perception this mathe- 
matical tool has recently been introduced the form 
the sinusoidal (or blurred) grating. particularly useful 
for investigating the basis visual responses the en- 
vironment because its repetitive multiple nature, 
which mirrors the repetitive parallel organization the 
neural pathways. This means that sinusoidal gratings are 
especially potent producing visual illusions and distor- 
tions, because they can swamp the whole retina with the 
same kind stimulation. Gazing steadily images made 
these gratings will produce fluctuating, shifting 
impressions due adaptation several levels the 
visual system. The very regularity the pattern the 
cause its shimmering vitality the brain the 
perceiver. 

particularly interested this stage avoiding the 
hard-edge, line-dominated form that typifies computer art 
present. The microfilm plotter, which have used 
mainly, allows continuous gradations grey-level and 
opens wide possibilities for detailed control the result- 
ing image. the Morphonome series controlled the form 
the image specific equation (hence the name) 
usually with clear image mind. But the Autonome 
series was produced with many functions under (random) 
control the computer. subsequently selected results 
that appealed the human nervous system. The work 

represented here was all produced Northeastern 
University 6600 with Calcomp plotter, Bell 
Laboratories Honeywell 6000 and microfilm plotter. 


San Francisco, California 


September 1975 


‘Autonome 


q 


aa 
RSS 


MANFRED 
MOHR 


The fundamental view that machines should not 
considered challenge humanity but, like McLuhan 
predicted, extension ourselves the basic 
philosophy when becoming involved with technology. 

technology which ‘functions’ has integrated 
our lives like physical extension—a necessity our 
body and our mind. are living now era 


‘Cluster Phobia’, centimeters. 


7M 


enormous technological transitions, where many mis- 
understandings human machine relationships are 
created lack knowledge and the categorical refusal 
learn most individuals. quasi mystical fear 
incomprehensible technology still omnipresent. 


N 


Breakthroughs human development are always 
accompanied radical changes attitude towards the 
so-called human values. is, forexample, from practical 
(and philosophical) point view evident that one should 
simply ready leave the most possible part work 
machine when becomes clear that this way the 
desired solution may better and more reliably achieved. 
also true that human thought can ‘amplified’ 
machines, raising our consciousness higher level 
comprehension. 

apply methods this kind science obvious, and 
generally considered basic. use similar methods 
aesthetical research is, opinion, possible and 
nevertheless historical 
research runs, for this point least, parallel scientific 
research and together they make our human develop- 
ments more comprehensible. 


this context consider the computer legitimate 
amplifier for our intellectual and visual experiences. 

Through detailed programming analysis, one able 
visualize logical and abstract models human thinking, 
which lead deep into the understanding creative 
processing. Creative processes are mental processes 
having priori associative character, where associa- 
tions are defined interactions and/or transversal 
connections (Querverbindungen) thoughts Time- 
Space neighbourhood relationship. Unifying those 
divergent intersecting data from memory order 
form new meanings called imagination the facility 
creating free associations. Most adults have been taught 
think way which does not allow them play with 
free associations. This ‘cliche’ thinking many people 
radically opposed imaginative thinking. create 
new and perhaps important aesthetical information, 


‘Graph Pattern’. 


necessary operate with free associations. This does not 
necessarily involve but training which has 
practiced. computer, however, (at least until today) 
not able process associative way, even though 
self-supervising machine. The computer not con- 
scious what doing and can only execute orders from 
outside: from us! That means: computer itself cannot 
create invent anything. 

not have ask: what can the computer do?, but 
reverse the question asking ourselves: what want 
do? and then consider whether the help machine 
could useful for our purpose. the answer positive, 
have find ways asking the machine the right 
questions order get reasonable results, amplifying 
our thoughts and intentions. Proceeding this way 
important step towards systematic approach 
aesthetical problems. Abraham Moles once said: “La 
machine pense pas, elle nous fait penser.” 

There are several ways approaching the computer for 
this purpose: 

visual-concrete procedure. existing visual 
image dissected into its basic elements. Each element 
can represent algorithm. One can operate various 
ways with these elements. The experience is: visual image 
process visual image. 

invented abstract the basic algorithm and visual 
image, only vague one, can predicted. The 
importance this approach lies the applied rules, 
which are, least their conception, new way ap- 
proaching visual experience. The experience is: abstract 
logic visual image. 


Statistical-flexible procedures deviate into two distinct 
directions: 

The visualisation mathematical formulas. Without 
doubt very interesting results can appear which have 
never been seen before. For long-term artistic interest 
however, the resulting aesthetical information 
mathematical formula itself limited and therefore 
closed system. 

The research find invent individual rules 
means artistic expression. 

The individual impact human behaviour, filtered and 
reformed through the inherent peculiarities acomputer, 
will lead directly interesting and overall coherent 
open system. course mathematics are used, but this 
case only technical help, and not the sole purpose. 

The logical construction programming language 
forces us, the one hand, concentrate with almost 
maniacal precision formulation (the instructions), but 
opens, the other hand, new dimensions for wider and 
statistical thinking. 


New operation models appear: 

—Precision part aesthetical expression. 

—High speed execution and therefore multiplicity 
and comparativity the works. 

—The fact that hundreds imposed orders and 
Statistical considerations can easily carried out 
computer instead the human mind, which 
incapable retaining them over period time, for 
example during plotting time (calculation time). 

—The continuous feedback during man-machine 
dialogue involves learning process the side the 


human being, resulting clearer image the 
thinking and intentions. 

Properties this kind form conceptual basis that 
shows rigorous attitude dealing with aesthetical 
problems. 

The dialogue with the computer implies also that results 
(graphics, etc.) and their visual expression have 
judged under completely new aspects. evident that 
one should not create single forms and judge them 
traditional and subjective aesthetic, but build sets form 
where the basic parameters are relationships between 
forms with aesthetical value associated any 
particular form the set. possible within this context 
ignore the former ‘good’ and ‘bad,’ now allowing 
aesthetical decisions based statistical and 
‘wertfreie’ procedures, where the totality represents 
quality quantity. 

This procedure may lead different and perhaps more 


interesting answers, lying course outside one’s normal 
behaviour but not outside the imposed logic. The above 
postulated conception becomes part conditioned 
aesthetical information. 


Computer-aided art too young aphenomenon for one 
foresee its influence the arts. most probable 
that the importance art thus created might lie 
essentially its subtle and rational way proceeding, 
which means that not only the but also the ‘how’ 


the change will have fundamental consequences for the 
future. 


The world will not changed from the outside but from 
the inside and aesthetical decisions will more and more 
based knowledge rather than irrelevance. The shift 
from uncontrollable metaphysics systematic and 
logical constructivism may well the sign tomorrow. 


Paris, France 
February 1975 


have been using the computer make pictures for 
became involved with computers retort is, married 
into it.” husband, Jay, teaches the Computer Science 
Department the University Minnesota. Most what 
have learned has been through osmosis. 

grand student Hans Hofmann having studied 

painting with Peter Busa seems strange, even me, 
involved with anything mechanical. art studies were 
firmly grounded abstract expressionism—dripping 
paint, house paintbrushes, and the attitude know 
scious decision making. However, the change has been 
gradual and feel combining both attitudes, abstract 
expressionism and constructivism work. 

first encounter with computers producing art was 
experiment and create graphics with program that 
already existed. drew and shaded pictures acathode 
ray tube using light pen attachment. The program had 
features which made superior drawing hand. But 

freely the scope was ultimately resolved into grid. 
This dissatisfaction, coupled with the fact that now knew 
more about how computers worked, led think 


own idea for program. had had dollar bill when 
was child. loved stretch and distort the image it. 


>, 
>, 


> 


+ 
+ 


++ + 
+++ 


EE EE POOOOOS 


FrFFFFFFFE 


‘Herringbone Variation III’, serigraph. 


idea was use the computer simulate rubber 
sheet and stretch any patterns wished draw. Initially 
patterns would hard-edge, constructivist style. 
But after distortion they would have the lyrical quality 
abstract expressionism imparted them. have explored 
several patterns with this program, linear one, one 
dealing with mass, 3-dimensional projected figure, etc. 
Each series unique, comprises new style, and even 
requires its own method stretching. have used this 
‘stretching’ program create graphics and paintings. 
about begin use variation the program which 
incorporates transformations make film animations. 
addition, having conceived one idea, find myself 
bombarded with others. Recently, for example, modified 
stretch program incorporate the idea attraction 
and repulsion. 


4 
4 
44, 
ke, 43 
DOGO 
| 
| 
; 


‘Diamond Transfo 


‘Inner City Variation II’, serigraph. 


find that using the not have give 
traditional role artist. The machine acts multi- 
faceted tool which control. When began use the 
computer had knowledge programming. have 
since taken course Fortran. This gave under- 
standing how the machine processes information, 
thereby giving more control over work. not 
actually code programs, but know can ask for 
and how ask for it. 

the option create one’s own work tools which, 
mind, makes computer art unique. new role now 
open the artist addition the traditional one 
making objects. can create programs for himself, other 
artists, and perhaps even for the public. The impact 
computers art the future will greater because 
more artists will have access machines. have 


101 


that the public shall also have access computers and 
certainly more leisure time. computer art become 
‘the public art’ will not because graphics can 
produced cheaply and masse some have predicted. 
will ‘the public art’ because the public will gen- 
erating works art with programs that artists have 
created. 

use it. The machine allows create artworks that 
would probably impossible produce any other 
reasonable way. With the aid the computer can now 
explore areas which artists the past only thought 
possible dream about. 


Minneapolis, Minnesota 
February 1976 


KURT 
LAUCKNER 


MICROPROCESSORS AND 
INTELLIGENT SCULPTURE 


Introduction With the inexpensive control capabilities 
now available via microprocessors and microcomputers, 
feasible construct general purpose process control 
systems. These systems can programmed control 
multitude different sculptures without tremendous 
investment customized electronics. more artists 
become aware the capabilities and relative simplicity 
these microcomputer systems, new direction artistic 
creation will evolve. should pointed out that several 
artists' have already worked this 

When examining this new creative area, will con- 
venient categorize the artistic works their 
sophistication, better yet, their ‘intelligence.’ Two 
major categories immediately evident are works which 


Intelligent 
Input 


Sculpture 


Reflected 
Intelligence 


Intelligence 


Figure 


exhibit ‘reflected intelligence’ and those with ‘internal 
intelligence.’ The reflectively intelligent system accepts 
intelligent inputs that sculpture, such movement, 
temperature, light shadows, and sound, then ‘reflects’ 
them back the viewer the form sound, movement, 
etc. This type sculpture does not make sophisticated 
decisions. The internally intelligent system, one might 
guess, does indeed make intelligent decisions and 
‘thinks,’ whatever that means! the latter category, the 
microprocessor would probably used controller 
the sculpture and interface computer. Thisis 
due the magnitude programs needed 
‘intelligent manipulations.’ Figure summarizes the two 
types sculpture. 

better understand this division, helpful 
examine ‘non-computerized’ hypothetical sculpture. 
the reflective case, Figure shows the sculpture piano) 
with keyboard input and sound output. The pianist’s 
intelligent input mechanically converted sound and 
reflected back him. analogous intelligent sculpture 
could consist pianist, who hears the input sound from 
the viewer’s piano and intelligently responds playing 
the piano type musical answer. The important 
feature the latter case that the piani.t, who part 
the sculpture, making intelligent decisions re- 
sponding the viewer’s sounds. 


100/B (Intelligent Sculpture, 100 Series/BIRDS) 

currently designing two sculptures which fit the 
categories mentioned above. particular, the BIRDS 
piece tentative representation shown Figure 
exhibits reflected intelligence. consists several 
‘birds’ which can move either down the pole (tree). 
people observing the birds move around, movement 
sensors (ultrasonic-doppler shift sensors, commonly 
used burglar alarms) cause the birds closest the 
‘disturbance’ ascend their tree. the movement 
persists after the bird reaches the top, then rather 
unpleasant sound emitted. The sculpture will force 
people move slowly with caution, otherwise the 
disturbed birds cause unpleasant consequences. The 
coordination and control the ‘flock’ birds will 
accomplished with microprocessor. 


Intelligent 


Sculpture 
Manipu ations 


Intelligent 
Output 


Internal Intelligence 


Sound 


Reflected Intelligence 


Figure 


400/D Sculpture, 400 Series/DECOY) 

The second sculpture being designed more complex. 
The hardware portion will consist ‘decoy’ sculpture 
placed room shown from overhead Figure 
Each viewer entering the room will wear specially 
designed ‘communications’ helmet, which contains two 
independent communications systems. One system 
consists infrared transmitter and sensor. 
looks about the room, the transmitter’s signal picked 


Figure 


Inte 


gence 


the sensors the other helmets and additional fixed 
sensors placed the room. record the 
time and direction observation made for analysis 
the computer. The second communications system 
low power radio transmitter which broadcasts informa- 
tion from the computer each individual independently. 
This completes ‘closed loop’ shown Figure 

The information broadcast each viewer the form 
synthesized speech. better understand the content 
the message, helpful make acomparison with the 
conversational program PARRY developed Colby, 
Weber and Hilf, 1971, described 


PARRY program designed simulate the con- 
versational behavior paranoid human being. The 
conversation below was produced with the pro- 
gram operating its ‘weak version’ paranoia. 
Sentences labeled are produced the human 
interviewer; those labeled ‘O’ the program. 


—How long have you been the hospital? 
O—About week. 

—Are you depressed? 

O—No. 

—Were you taking drugs? 

O—No. 

—What your problem? 

O—People make nervous. 

—How they that? 

stare me. 

—Why? 

something. 

—Do you look unusual some way? 

O—Why are you interested looks? 

—Because you said people stare you. 
O—Well, sometimes. 

—How you get along with people? 

don’t communicate very much with the others. 
—Why not? 

time. 

—What going on? 

O—Do you know how the underworld operates? 


oun 
103 


Infra Red Sensor 


Figure 


the DECOY the input the form the viewer’s 
‘history observation’ coupled with additional informa- 
tion given the sculpture’s computer human 
assistant stationed within the room. This additional 
information would consist various descriptors such 
color clothing, sex, physical features, helmet number, 
etc. The system will use this information create various 
situations within the room. For example, what would you 
think, suddenly everyone the room looked you? 
The reason for their stares could the system’s comment 
everyone, that is, except you: “Look that interesting 
cane the gentleman the tan holding.” The people, 
their actions, and reactions are the sculpture, the physical 
sculpture the room only decoy. 

obvious those working artificial intelligence 
that the real problems with the construction the sculp- 
ture are the computer programs which make decisions 
about what say whom. The communication system, 
computer synthesized audio response, and other hard- 
ware features are relatively easy construct. course, 
large computer would needed mosi the 
analysis information and formation the audio 
response, but microprocessors would certainly used 
for control purposes and interface the large 
system. Depending the complexity the analysis and 
response programs, this could indeed intelligent 
sculpture. 


Ypsilanti, Michigan 
October 1975 


FOOTNOTES 


The Senster, 1971, Edward installed the ‘Evoluon’ 
Eindhoven, Netherlands. (See Science and Art Today, 
Jonathan Benthall, 78.) 

O.C.L.E.S. (Observer Controlled Light Emission System), 1974, 
William Uphoff (see page 35, newsletter the Computer Arts Society). 

Jackson, Philip C., Artificial Intelligence, Petrocelli 
Books, New York, 1974, 323. 


104 


General 
Purpose 
Computer 


Link Vi 
Telephone 
Limes 


Microprocessors 


Control Signals to Sele 
Helmet Receives Voice 


Several 
Channels 


— > Low 
Transmitter 


RF Information 


Fram Helmet Sensors Input 


InfraRed 
Teansmifter 


Infrared 
from Viewers 


agio requ 
Infrared 


Figure 


\ 
Signal 
Audio me, 
Uni v4 adio 
Produchien 
which Voice 
= 
Tnfra Red Sensor 


VICKY 
CHAET 


learned recreate geometric elegance, nice gift for 
artist. Learning via computer was art experience 
want discuss. 

would rather showing video tapes the computer 
generated geometrical images that turned on, but the 
printed page opportunity for discussing work. 
here am, visual artist, giving forth words. 


the graces the Industrial Engineering Depart- 
ment Stanford University, performed the AGT 
computer (Adage) geometric forms three dimen- 
sionally illusioned space: glowing phosphors the CRT 
display delineate deep dark space. interact with these 
images through analog controls. 

The following account computer art 
experience. 

“How did you become involved with the computer 
producing art?” 

was sculpting 1969. boyfriend was reading 
Suzanne Langer’s Symbolic Logic. read and felt that 
needed logic organize approach making art. 

the University Massachusetts 1969, sculp- 
ture teacher, Robert Mallary, was already into the logic 
computer art; and landlord, Robert Archer, was 
Computer Science professor. had access some 
sophisticated computer graphics displays 
saw some graphics that graduate students had created 
the wee hours the morning. They were tired working 
engineering problem and wanted create some 
fun. considered what they showed art; don’t know 
what they called it. stopped sculpting and went 
Stanford University learn about computers. The Art 
Department Stanford supported computer interest 
for couple years before the Industrial Engineering 
Department took in. 

“What your art background?” 

Degrees: one Bachelor Fine Arts degree; and two 
Masters Fine Arts degrees, one ceramics and one 
sculpture. Shows: from 1963 the present have shown 
work ceramics, sculpture, computer-video, and 
painting New York, Chicago, San Francisco, and Palo 
Alto. 


al 
105 


the French Impressionist paintings the Chicago Art 
Institute which taught everything about color. Even 
though computer work all black and white, con- 
ception color. 

“What role does the computer play for you?” 

gave the computer the role tool. tool translate 
three dimensions two, and tool animate frames for 
the moving picture which would never choose animate 

used GRAFX language program written Bill 
Brastow, the faculty Stanford’s Industrial Engineer- 
ing Department. The program was based specifica- 
tions which put together some delightful dis- 
cussions concerning what would fun put through the 
computer. always felt very serious and business-like talk- 
ing with this man whose wit and intelligence whizzed 
around the spaces where the talk became too technical 
for handle. The shapes which were easy create 
with our program could moved any dimension 
analogue dials controlling the X-Y-Z vectors. very 
lovely machine—too temperamental about whether 
wants work today not—but when works, works 
nicely! 


The program variables included position, shape, speed, 
scale and length. could assign geometric paths the 
moving forms with these variables. These variables could 
independently assigned for each the three position- 
ing axes and for each object displayed. This meant that 
subtle variety paths was unanalyzable viewer. Yet: 
ihe different factors between variables from one axis 
other was small, and the final geometric shape 
simple and elegant, that astounds the human mind 
which has abstract number information. While the eye 
watches illusion two dimensional information, the 
mind perceives information were three. 


put human-like rhythm the movements the 
geometric shapes, sometimes they seemed like excited 
anthropomorphic figures. used video tape for hard 
copy. 

The computer was tool for computation, drawing, 
animating, arid displaying art forms. 

“Are your computer works related non-computer 
art?” 

feel related the religious art the old Middle 
East because its pure geometry. this century thereisa 
lot geometric art, take Moholy-Nagy example one 
artist. 

“Do you have final image mind when work begins?” 

metamorphosis takes place between ideas and the 
medium. take into account the medium with its ad- 
vantages and limitations. Eventually, working with 
able imagine the final material object when 
the work begins. 

“Could your work done without the aid 
computer?” 

No. least not me. would tedious animate. 

“To what extent are you your own technician?” 

canload the program and run it. have written andruna 
few simple programs (Stanford computer course home- 
work for the most part). cannot write programs for the 
images that conceive head. 

“Do you intend continue using the computer create 
art pieces?” 

Yes, when the machinery, technical artistry compli- 
ment traditional artistry, and financing, all come 
together. 

“Where your work seen?” 

Only occasionally special showings. has been seen 
Stanford University, DeAnza College, the exhibition 
circuit the Bloomfield Art Assoc. Michigan and 
galleries New York and San Francisco. 


Palo Alto, California 
October 1975 


- 
4A 
4 
> j 
hy 
Ly, 
» (Ps, 
| 
; 
*s, 
4 
rica? 
. 
~ 
BLA 
106 


LILLIAN 
SCHWARTZ 


“The art any period the result the background 
factors that age plus the personalities its creative 


Ohio and graduate the College Nursing Health 
the University Cincinnati. 

studied free-hand drawing the University 1948- 
1949, oil painting St. Louis, Missouri, watercolors and 
woodcuts Fukuoka, Japan and finally came the New 
York area the 50’s and continued study art. 

intense interest new materials and its effects 
continued stimulus the creative process during the 
porate existing technology into work. 

met and began working with Ken Knowlton, 
computer scientist, 1969, following the ‘MACHINE’ 
exhibition the Museum Modern Art. The international 
organization Experiments Art and Technology 
(E.A.T.) was founded “to try establish better working 
relationship among artists, engineers and industry.” 

line with that purpose E.A.T. agreed arrange 
competition connection with the ‘MACHINE’ exhibit. 
About 200 works were submitted. these, nine works 
were selected Pontus Hulten, the director the show, 
for inclusion the exhibition. 

sculpture ‘Proxima Centauri’ and 
Perception 1,’ graphic, Harmon and Knowlton were 
two the exhibits. 

The show catalogue describes ‘Proxima Centauri’ as, 
“Changing patterns appear the surface white 
translucent dome, which times seem become 
gelatinous mass that shakes, breathes, and then returns 
still images. the spectator approaches the sculpture, 
the dome throws off red glow while slowly sinking into 
the base and thus inviting the viewer 
observe this phenomenon. now resting inside 
the base. Peering down into the rectangle, the viewer sees 
the spectacle series abstract pictures focused 
the 


The catalogue writes about ‘Studies Perception 
... graphics were created for utilitarian pur- 
poses. Among the uses are study the field view seen 
from the seat airplane, analyze flat 
image order manipulate graphic data. The 
characteristics the computer the moment are 
strikingly shown ‘computer art.’ The computer can act 
intelligent being: process information, obey intricate 
rules, manipulate symbols, and even learn experience. 
But since not capable initiating concepts, cannot 
truly creative; has access imagination, intui- 
tion, and emotion.” The last sentence can applied 
any medium but the previous sentence describes 
medium that can process information, obey rules, and 
even learn experience! 

The awesomeness such tool places the artist 
quite humble position. There necessary kind 
readjustment for the artist for here medium that may 
take some the burdens from the artist. find the real 
justification for the use the computer painter would 
shift the emphasis stimulating new angle 
approach; maybe relieve the formal elements some 
the conscious emphases which are necessary and place 
more stress content. 

With such medium now have the means display- 
ing, its constituent parts, images which possess 
simultaneously number dimensions. 

handle such tool find necessary break down 
these specific dimensions. 


First, there are the more less limited formal factors, 
such line, tone value, and color. And, secondly, the 
computer used filmmaking knowledge the craft 
film. 

when the artist considers line usually 
thought being matter simple properties such 
length, angles, focal distance, and thickness. But measur- 
ing the characteristics line using computer 
quite different nature. 

The associative properties once used the non- 
computer artist longer correspond the direct will 
the artist. 

perform the simple act drawing line over page, 
exerting pressure the pencil, charcoal other instru- 
ment change the thickness the line the direction 
becomes major task programming. 

All rules concerning the use the line must well 
thought out advance. With proper flexibility 
program one can accept reject. The rewards eventually 
come when these lines can positioned desired. The 
artist can then contemplate the positions these lines 
drawn with any other medium but—with the computer 
instruction can rotate the lines, join them, multiply them, 
whatever instruction has been previously built into the 
program. 

From this point, given mastery the medium, the struc- 
ture can assured foundations such strength that 
able reach out into dimensions far removed from one’s 
expectations. 

easy task for the artist live with too much 
freedom her medium. Great care must given the 
selectivity these elements. Speaking from own 
experience, depends mood the time editing 
images into their final film form that decisions which 
the many elements are brought out their general 
order, out their appointed array, and raised 
new order and form. seems clearer that the results this 


medium may well fall into direct ascendancy the hieratic 


ee 


ee 


‘Night Scene’. 


forms Seurat and the mosaics Byzantium. The artists 
India also worked from set Sudras. Even among the 
more recent artists Delacroix, Cezanne, and Matisse, the 
same desire for system and regularity for ordered 
universe seem dominate. 

Artists must express their own creative character the 
technology their era order find their own historical 
and individual level. 


108 


The computer has also assisted the visualization 
sculpture three dimensions. Programs can used 
rotate sculptures, view them stereoscopically, place 
agiven site—all before any execution has taken place. 

For the artist newly exposed using the computer 
not unlike Stephen Leacock’s hero, who jumped his 
horse and dashed madly off all directions. 


Watchung, New Jersey 
November 1975 


SYNTHAVISION: SERENDIPITY 
FROM THE NUCLEAR AGE 


This chess set shows some the fine detail that can managed using 
simple geometric shapes construct more complex ones. 


not unusual phenomenon that, the course 
scientific inquiry, one discovery begets another and 
subsequent breakthroughs produce unintended chain 
pleasant surprises. was that physicists studying 
the effects radiation domestic and military struc- 
tures developed exciting and unique method for 
producing computer generated animation. 

The new animation technique called Synthavision and 
marketed commercially Computer Visuals, Inc., 
Elmsford, New York. Using the process, dimensional, 
shaded objects can made perform variety 
complicated movements and captured film. 
Amazingly, the objects don’t have exist. The need for art 
work, photographs prototypes has 
eliminated, since Synthavision enables the animator 
produce his ‘actors’ within the software the computer 
mathematically. 

This incredible attribute offshoot from the work 
which inspired the development Synthavision the first 
place. Scientists Mathematical Applications Group, 
Inc., Computer Visuals parent company, were conduct- 
ing experiments which whole environments were 
mathematically described computer (an IBM 360/65). 
These mathematical models were then ‘exposed’ 
hypothetical dose radiation. The program then use 
diagnosed the effects the radiation the objects the 
environment—how much reflected off, defracted within 
penetrated. Although neither the environment nor the 
radiation existed, the findings were accurate and 
applicable real life. 

Because radiation and light rays have many the same 
characteristics, the scientists, led Dr. Phillip Mittelman 
and Robert Goldstein, theorized that mock situations such 


109 


LARRY 
ELIN 


these could programmed exposing the objects 
light rays instead radiation. All the light would, 
course, reflect off the solid objects the program. The 
program could include command direct the reflected 
light single point which would act ‘eye,’ 
camera. The light reflected off the objects and the 
camera would create image the objects. Years 
research followed, and the result Synthavision, com- 
plete with mathematically described objects, camera and 
light source—all the elements necessary 
studio situation the memory the computer. 

The input for this child the nuclear age includes 
descriptions the objects, ‘actors’ the film, the loca- 
tion and characteristics camera (focal length and size 
image plane), the direction from which the light 
coming and set instructions called 
Language,’ which tell the computer how treat the 
objects (animate the actors) the film. 


These variables are first determined the animator, 
and then key punched specified, very easy use, 
format designed expressly for Synthavision. Based the 
information, the IBM 360/65 computer makes extensive 
calculations determine what the object looks like 
each frame the movie. outputs, digital form, the 
frame frame mathematical descriptions the objects 
magnetic tape. The tape then mounted mini- 
computer, whose function read the tape and output 
the information piecemeal—one frame atime. The elec- 
tronics graphics display machine converts the digital 
information analog form. This signal then displayed 
Cathode Ray Tube (CRT), from which 


110 


The engineers and designers the Boeing Company supplied all the 
specifications necessary make film this Heavy Lift Helicopter before 
was ever built. 


photographed conventional animation cameras. may 
sound like long, drawn out process, but really quite 
fast, although means real time. animator 
could produce one minute film about 1/3 the time 
required hand animator. 

“How,” you may ask, “does one describe object the 
computer?” 


really quite simple. Synthavision incorporates 
technique known combinatorial geometry, whereby 
whole, voluminous shapes such boxes, spheres and 
cones are added subtracted form more complex 
shapes. The equations for these shapes, and others, have 
already been programmed into the memory. 
The animator need only call for them, designate 
tion and size and inform the computer which shapes are 
solid and which are invisible—a trait necessary 
subtract one volume from another. Almost any known 
imagined object can described the computer this 
way. The animator ‘models’ his objects much the same 
way sculptor might use old pipes and scraps wood 
create work art. The animator using Synthavision 
has more flexibility, however, because can cause his 
object move and, sense, come life. 

Movement given the actors key punching com- 
mands move, turn scale the objects certain 
number frames. The camera can also made move 
rotate. typical command might move the object 
120 frames (five seconds) from point point while 
simultaneously rotating the object about point The 
computer calculates what the object looks like each 
those frames and writes the information magnetic tape. 


A 


When the frames are viewed sequentially, the illusion 
movement has been created. 

there one very obvious advantage the Syntha- 
vision process, the scientifically accurate shading and 
perspective maintained the objects regardless how 
they are moved turned. They appear real, though 
somehow cartoonish nature. Indeed they should since, 
far the computer concerned, they are real. The 
effect reality created the software assigning 
gray level the points the surface the described 
object. The gray level determined the orientation 
the point with respect the camera and the light source. 
The more acute the angle, the brighter that point willbe. 
sphere, for example, will brightest where its exposure 
the light source most direct, and will gradually 
become darker its surface curves away from direct 
exposure. 


There are other very attractive attributes Syntha- 
vision. very fast. animator, order produce one 
minute film, would have draw 1440 cels pictures, 
each little different. There are short cuts which are 
commonly used reduce this number some extent, but 
the fact remains that one minute film requires long 
hours the drawing stand. Each drawing would then have 
inked (outlined) and opaqued (colored) and finally 
filmed. All these steps are done manually, for the most 
part, and require variety skills and personnel. 
computer animator need only describe the picture 
elements once and then command the computer 
produce the necessary pictures. The computer also 
‘opaques’ and performs the filming. accomplishes all 
these tasks great speed, freeing the animator for 
creative rather than manual endeavors. 

The tremendous flexibility, expediency, and accuracy 
Synthavision testifies the potential for the computer 
the animation and Graphic Arts fields. When you con- 
sider that Synthavision actually very early stage 
development, the future appears even more favorable— 
both for Synthavision (and whatever follows), and for 
Computer Graphics general. 


Elmsford, New York 
October 1975 


The function this machine chew whole cars into pieces about the 
size quarter. Obviously the process cannot photographed from the 
inside, but Synthavision showed representational fashion how works. 


111 


3 
> 


HIROSHI 
KAWANO 


WHAT COMPUTER ART? 


Computer artis the art computer artificial intelli- 
gence. computer can solve algorithmic problem 
digital computing. Therefore, long art has 
algorithmic procedure, computer should able have 
its own artistic behavior. Although the aesthetic quality 
art seems have been overstressed our modern art 
because the philosophical influence epistemological 
subjectivism since the 18th century, art properly has its 
generative base the same human reason the case 
science shown the classic Greek art and Ren- 
aissance art. This tells that art one kind logical 
activity inits essence. Here the raison d’etre computer 
art. 

computer can produce its own works art repre- 
senting the logic artistic procedure which hidden 
human art. this representing process called the 


simulation human art computer. But the 
ability simulate art given programmer who lets 
the computer produce works art teaching the 
algorithmic procedure art program. This relation- 
ship between programmer and computer can 
paralleled with the one between parent and his child. 
parent teaches his child how draw picture, for 
example, and tries let him grow achieve 
himself. This ‘how draw’ the algorithmic procedure 
picture-drawing. order so, the parent must 
beforehand know the algorithm picture-drawing which 
now trying teach his child. The more explicitly 
knows and can teach the algorithm, the better the drawn 
picture his child will become; that is, the quality the 
picture his child drew depends only upon the quality the 
algorithm the parent had possessed already and taught his 
child. The role programmer computer art seems 
similar with this parent’s role. 


Thus computer artist should programmer who 
can teach his computer produce works art itself, 
and furthermore know about the digital computing 
behavior his computer detail. never computer 
artist, but computer itself that produces works art; 
computer artist only helps his computer acting pro- 
grammer. looks God controlled human artist 
the creator who had programmed the activity ahuman 
artist. this meaning, the computer art should not 
confused with style school the modern art 
computer innovative tool artist who has been 
tired traditional techniques art. the latter usually 
seems called ‘computer art,’ would like call the 
former art computer ‘art computer.’ 


‘Art computer’ has artificial creativity corresponding 
the level the program given programmer and 
behaves the control program. This means only the 
logic the structural procedure controls composing the 
required work from data after generating them auto- 
matically. never means that the control results from the 
data themseives which are necessary determine the 
sensuous surface the finally completed work. There- 
fore, art computer has the programmed tendency gen- 
erating many possible compositions with various 


* 


* 
* 


* 


* 


RE 


* 


x 


* 
* * * 
* 
* 

* 


ee 


: H 
: 
: * aH 
: ne an 
: * 3 
: ear 
: * * = 
* 
: 
* 


modifications general, and the freedom selecting 
unique work among them according the program and 
its input data. This large possibility production and the 
variability the final image ‘art computer’ produces 
surely the key its artificial creativity. 


mentioned above, ‘art computer’ cannot simulate 
human art until the algorithm art found and 
described program. But this algorithm art can 
made clear only scientific aesthetics. this meaning, 
the work ‘art computer’ experimental product 
scientific aesthetics. Only the new scientific aesthetics 
which has replaced the old traditional aesthetics can 
provide effective method programming for ‘art 
because the algorithm, that the digital 
computing logic art, can cleared only scientific 
aesthetics. Here favorable cooperation art and 
science which can surely found the mature period 
art history. Thus, the ability ‘art computer’ produce 
works with high artistic quality depends the degree 
understanding human art scientific aesthetics. That 
is, the praxis ‘art computer’ connected tightly with 
the science human art. 


113 


q 


| 


The computer artist programmer should not 
so-called artist who has instead reason, but 
scientist art with logical thinking for whom rigorous 
stoicism against beauty necessary. may only 
program for his ‘art computer,’ and the ‘art will 
produce its works following the given program. this 
meaning, just art computer should called artist, and 
computer artist not artist, but teacher 
‘art computer.’ Let’s call the teacher artist ‘art 
computer’) meta-artist, then this meta-artist that 
truly needed for ‘art computer.’ 

Lastly, how can such algorithmically produced work 
mentioned above possess its aesthetic quality? This 
answer must obtained from itself! 
cannot feel even another man’s human feeling, much less 
feeling! The works ‘art computer’ would 
show such aesthetic quality beautiful, sentimental, 
comic etc. only for the appreciator with empathy it. 
However, this philosophical problem now doesn’t seem 
instructive for our ‘art computer.’ 


Tokyo, Japan 
September 1975 


ROGER 
VILDER 


work centered around few physical and emo- 
tional feelings such the growth shape form, the 
filling crack, the expansion and contraction matter, 
the change, mutation, metamorphosis shape. 
Coupled those feelings are some more rational 
concerns such the relationship unit the whole, 
the similarities motion cycles and evolution different 
worlds seemingly without connections. 


114 


Most these feelings and concerns are conveyed 
works: gears revolving all the same time, with patterns 
colour repeated each gear surface, creating optical illu- 
sions and colour changes due eye fatigue; square linear 
shapes out steel coil, expanding and contracting 
given path; gel silicon cubes disintegrating into organic 
motion when vibrated; neon lines revolving and creating 
electric light ballet; lines moving surface, con- 
stantly changing the proportions the divided areas. All 
those works are made mechanical components. They 
come alive only when motion, since motion the 
vehicle express visual phenomena. 


This statement was prepared originally accompany portfolio com- 
puter art published GALERIE EDITIONS GILLES GHEERBRANT, 
Montreal, Canada. 


CH 
ae 
a 
q 
ct 


Variations from film sequence. 


When began work with computers, first reflex 
was recreate the cathode-ray tube most the visual 
phenomena had created mechanical means. Soon 
realized the amazing potential the computer and began 
expand ideas into more graphically oriented work. 
result, produced some short animation films. 

found myself very much ease with computer, 
mainly because was already used working within 
defined system, with the constraints mechanics. Yet 
there great difference between computer art and other 


115 


media. The exchange, while the process creation 
happening, seems more alive because its instantaneity. 
almost like having conversation with someone from 
which something visual results. This very aspect the 
computer, along with its extraordinary speed execu- 
tion, what appreciate most when working through this 
medium. 


Montreal, Canada 
June 1974 


JACQUES 
PALUMBO 


present research trying render com- 
municable the substance the content the work art 
perceptual and reflective level. 

astarting point, was necessary analyse the occi- 
dental thinking process which essentially linear and 
consequently defines principle cumulative knowl- 
edge. second stage work (which presently 
pursuing) concretize this type thought seeking 
create form for the content research and out- 
line reading means work which not only linear 
but multi-directional ‘tabular.’ 


the first stage work, constructed research 
numerical signs. alphabetical signs and signs 
punctuation. was necessary build system give 
‘verticality’ the typographical sign. Why typographical 
signs? Because these signs, already coded and codified, 
define the structure the language and, consequently, 
communications. These coded signs have ‘order’ 
space: aim was redefine this space. tools (hard- 
ware) during this research period were typewriter and 
paper; for the software, was semiological analysis. 

For analysis used the repertoire numerical signs 
(87) and visual signs (10 picas) machine. Because 
these signs have asequence, they can declined. Conse- 
quently placed this repertoire paradigmatic 
narrative prose, the descriptive enumeration succes- 
sively articulates elements chosen random and subse- 
quently assembled arbitrary order. After the 
enumeration, the signs define permutable order, then 
combine. the syntagmatic axis going from left right, 
observe evolution which there transition from 
serial order permutable order. realized that the force 
sign depends not its semantic value, but rather 
its relationship neighboring signs. concretize this 
notion semiotics, during the second stage re- 
search, stripped the sign its semantic value and gave 
purely spatial character. thus replaced the substance 
the content with form the content, reiterating Eco’s 
theory which states that: “In order communicable, 
the substance the content must made into ‘form 
the content’ structurally homologous its form expres- 
sion.” 


Electrostatic drawing, 1973. 


‘SOF2B 12291 ‘SOF2A 12289 
‘SOF1C 12285 ‘SOF2C 12302 
118 


SIGNS 


119 


Pos 


aids, 


Phe! 


interesting’ possibilities had 


maintain that the work art fundamentally 
ambiguous message: plurality ‘signifiers’ which exist 


Qe crs 
oD 
2 
28S 


discover the maximum 


offer. 


for each typographical symbol, there 


practical terms 
acorresponding graphic sign which have attributed 


spatial value. enumeration numerical base can 
seen each vertical column. Therefore, each 
horizontal line, each sign has value equivalent that 
the sign preceding and following it, but with different 


numerical base: 


August 1975 


transform signs, 
Montreal, Canada 


The role art therefore not much know the 


one single ‘signifiant.’ make known that the world 
world produce complements it: art creates 


object which must deciphered.. 
give them new distribution nature (this under- 


taking indeed the definition art) and base this dis- 
tribution not ‘natural laws,’ but the freedom that 


men have give ameaning things (cf: Brecht’s theater). 


autonomous forms, which, added those existant, 
possess life their own and laws unto themselves. 


100 (base 
120 


work was well suited 
Universite Montreal. 


The concept sensitivity takes new 


Technically speaking 
experiments with computer. worked collaboration 


Several experiments done with electrostatic points 


printer (Versatec) offered new dimension work 
make errors and the visual experience almost immediate 


relating the concept time. The machine does not 
since, having given the data the computer, received the 


with the Centre Calcul 


result ‘real time. 


oT 


Can Computers fall love? 


com- 
puters have sex? Does 


computer built under Scorpio 


get along with programmer who was born 
under Capricorn? Could computer conspiracy ever 
arise? Could you live daydream through computer? 
you've ever thought about these questions before, you're 
first thinking about them now, then time you thought about 
magazine that speaks your language. 
bi-monthly publication that's about every- 
thing that computers are about. From computer poetry computer art. From 
the effects computers pollution their effects privacy. From com- 


puters crime fighters computers teaching aids. 


bull fight, govern the ancient city Sumaria, and even fight space 


war. Those are only sample the kinds computer games you'll 
find. how about some non-computer games and puzzles? 


And that's not all. has book 


reviews, cartoons, fiction, and even fold-out poster. Plus 
news and commentary the twenty computer educa- 
tion projects that have endorsed this publication. 
get involved the curious world com- 
puters now. Subscribe 
Computing’: It's the magazine 
for the curious 
mind. 
CREATIVE COMPUTING SUBSCRIPTION FORM 
Published bi-monthly issues per year 
Type Term Billing Instructions 
Any 1-Year $15.00 Payment enclosed 
Institutional Country 3-Year $40.00 Please bill ($1.00 billing charge will added except 
Individual 1-Year 8.00 institutional and bulk subscriptions) 
1-Year $10.00 Master Charge* Expiration: Mo. Yr. 
Individual 3-Year $27.00 *Minimum Charge amount $15 


Bulk (10-24 copies) 1-Year 7.00 
Bulk (25-99 copies) 1-Year 6.00 Name and Complete Mailing Address 


Bulk (100 copies) 1-Year 5.00 


Name 
Sample Copy 1.50 Address 
New Renewal 
New Renewal Gift 


Return form to: CREATIVE COMPUTING, P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, N.J. 07960, USA 


121 


$4.95 


museum gallery. 
There, hanging side 
side are Rembrandt and 
Fortran. Fortran? 
new artist? 
No, computer language. 
Possible? Not really. 
‘No computer will ever 
take the place 
artist. 
But many artists are 
discovering computers 
anew means 
self-expression. 
Some use computers 
medium create 
finished pieces art, 
while others explore 
new art forms, using the 
computer idea machine. 
With more than 160 
illustrations, this volume 
introduces computer 
artists, each whom 
has written chapter 
describing their use 
computer make 
artistic vision reality. 


Left: Arabesque 
John Whitney 


Right: Papillions 
Lillian Schwartz 


Front Cover: Self Portrait 
Duane Palyka 


ISBN: 0-517-527359 


7 


