$1.50 


GAMES PUZZLES 


FOR POCKET CALCULATORS 
COMPUTERS FOR HUMANS 


Jan-Feb 1976 


\ 


ale 


Pocket Calculator Tricks 


Computer Games 


Creative Chess 
Magic Squares the Computer 


the 
=a 


YEAR 


Computer Art for people 


the modern medium 


$42.50 


REF 


These attractive prints are drawn 
carefully 
then custom-framed with the same high- 

quality, contemporary framing material 


used custom framers and museums. 


21x21 
GRAFIKEN 24x30 FLUORESCENT ORANGE 
BLACK AND WHITE BLACK 
SILVER FRAME $42.50 BLACK FRAME $32.50 


All prints except Dawn and Moonrise are $2.50 ea. 


Dear Mr. Hust 
Huston, 
Please enter order specified below: 
STREET 
Please charge BANK AMERICARD MASTER 
CHARGE AMERICAN EXPRESS Sales tax (Indiana 
Master Charger’s bank code Good Thru: Both prints and framed pictures are carefully packed heav 


duty containers insure fast, safe delivery. 
add $1.00 shipping ordering prints. When 
framed pictures, please add $2.00 shipping PER PICTURE. 


Signature: 


Please find enclosed check money order. 


LIMITED EDITION SERIGRAPHS 
red, Set the highest quality gold frame, 
FREE FLIGHT 
PEWTER FRAME 


HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPUTERS. 
BECAUSE IT’S NOT RAH-RAH AND 
THE OLD SCHOOL ORE. 


YELL LEADERS 


old, simple days education are gone. Today’s educational world 
complicated and complex. It’s full records, paperwork and data 
which exasperating everyone involved. 

That’s why decided something about Hewlett-Packard. 
worked hard becoming the leader designing computers for 
educational needs. Computers that can simplify and enhance your work, 
leaving you the critical time bring about the educational programs 
you set out accomplish. For instance, developed 
oriented computer systems and applications packages meet instruc- 
tional and administrative needs. 

Hewlett-Packard can’t bring back the good old days edu- 
cation. But can help you make the present educational process lot 
more effective. Write Hewlett-Packard and find out all the facts. could 
most important thing done for your educational system 


Send Elementary/Secondary School Literature. 
Send College/Uni ity Literature. 
Comp uters. ege/University Literature. 
for 


Have Sales Representative call. 


Name 
Title Dept. 
Address Phone 


Sales and service from 172 offices countries. City/State/Zip 
1501 Page Mill Road, Palo Alto, California 94304 


and easy use. Reliability assured because 196 Trumbull Street, Hartford, 06103, (203) 728-6777 


Yes, the price printed correctly even though computer system with these capabilities might 
expected cost ten times Thesurprising power this computer system comes from 

remarkable new software operating system called ETOS (EDUCOMP’s Timesharing 
Operating System) developed Educomp Corporation. Using this system, batch 

stream may running from card reader with output going line printer 

while simultaneously numerous other users may running timesharing 

jobs from their individual terminals BASIC, FORTRAN IV, 

COBOL, Assembler Language. they may using the 

system’s powerful editor create and modify data files. 
And, through the unique virtual memory technique 
employed ETOS, each user may access 

32K words memory. While ETOS 

sophisticated and powerful, also reliable 


ETOS built around Digital Equipment 
Corp’s dependable PDP-8 series computers 
and peripherals. Its ease operation means 
that the system can run all day virtually 
unattended. Educomp, know 
educational computer systems. They’re our 
only business. You’re welcome call and 
talk any one all our 100 plus satisfied 


Educomp Corporation 
196 Trumbull Street 
Hartford, 06103 


Please send information ETOS, GPRS, 
Educomp BASIC, COBOL, 
Complete Educational Computer Systems, 


single-user BASIC systems for under $5700 Name 
complete, timesharing systems, and 
incredibly comprehensive general-purpose School 

Address 


write call with your educational computing 
requirements. You may specify your area 
special interest let help you define your 
requirements. 


. 


BASIC, COBOL, FORTRAN 
one timesharing system. 


Editor-in-chief and Publisher 
David Ahi 


Higher Education Editor 
Kent Morton, Dartmouth College 


Editor 
Peter Kugel, Boston College 


Problems Editor 
Walter Koetke, Lexington High School 


Careers Editors 
Corr, Keystone Jr. 


Humor Editor 
Jack Ludwig, King Prussia, 


Technology Editors 
Tom Kibler, Atlanta, 
Alan Salisbury, Eatontown, 


Associate Editors 

Susan Hastings, Florham Park, 
Trish Todd, Brown University 
John Lees, University Missouri 


creative 


Contributing Artist 
George Beker, Stratford, 


Business Staff 
Carol Tick, Bernardsville, 


Volume 


CREATIVE COMPUTING published bi-monthly Ideametrics, 


Subscriptions: Institutional 1-year $15, 3-year $40; Individual 
$8, 3-year $21; Student 1-year $6, 3-year $16. Foreign 
postage $1.50 per year additional. Single copy $1.50. Subscription 
orders, Form 3579, Change address CREATIVE COMPUT- 
ING, P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, 07960. 


Reproduction prohibited. Printed USA. 


This Issue 


CREATIVE 
COMPUTING 


SPECIAL GAMES PUZZLES ISSUE 


THE COVER 


ARTICLES 

Learning with Computer Games 
Building MITS Altair 8800 Gray 
Calculators the Classroom Pendleton 
Beating the Game Thomsen 
Computer Planned Snowmen McLean 
Magic Squares the Computer 
The Computer Glass Box 
Computers Play Chess 
About Computing Chase 
David vs. Goliaths Newborn 
The Mystic Dickins 

THINGS 
Pocket Calculator Tricks 
The Keyboard Game Yarbrough 
The Tower Brahma 
Creative Chess Koetke 
Turning Puzzle Into Lesson Homer 

COMPUTER GAMES 
War (Another gunner game) Forman 
Dr. (Computer psychiatrist) Zeddies 
Concentration (Like game) Ca/ter 
Roadrace (Along Rt. 20) Cotter 
Condot (Connect the dots) Lund, Olivieri 
Chase (High-voltage maze) Cotter 
NEWS, NOTES,.SOURCES 

Compleat Computer Catalogue (Part 
Tips for Buying Pocket Calculator Weaver 
General Purpose Calculator Ratings 

FOOLISHNESS 
Johnson 
The Sleeping Queued Ludwig 
Conceptual Chess Johnson 
The Theory Relativity Payack 

DEPARTMENTS 
Input/Output Feature Review 

Reviews (34 Books BASIC) 


The cover illustration George Beker, videotape editor, 


producer, and consultant, Stratford, Ct. 


Notices, etc. 


FREE ART BOOK NOTICE 


All subscribers who current May-Jun 
1976 will receive $5.95 Computer Art book part 
their subscription. This fantastic book will 
printed high-quality coated paper, will have full- 
color illustrations and will portray the works 
leading computer artists from Germany 
the USA. The book edited Ruth Leavitt, 
computer artist (Creative Computing cover, Vol. 
No. residing Minneapolis. 

This book will replace both the May-Jun 
Jul-Aug 1976 issues. will resume standard 
magazine format with the Sep-Oct 1976 issue. 

With luck (and persistence) the art book will 
available most bookstores across the U.S.; how- 
ever, will include direct ordering instructions 
the Mar-Apr 1976 issue Creative for those who 
want extra copies for gift giving, etc. 


HAVING MATH/COMPUTER/SCIENCE FAIR? 
WANT MAKE SOME MONEY? 


You can sell copies Creative Computing your next 
math/computer/science/other fair, conference, club 
meeting. Simply send order for bulk copies. sure 
mention that for-a school or-non-profit organization, 
and you get 50% discount off the $1.50 cover price. 
(Bookstores and commercial resalers get 40% discount.) 
Please note: Minimum order copies, Order least 
weeks advance allow enough shipping time, 
Include your payment (75¢ number copies plus 
$1.00 for shipping). can generally supply copies the 
current and one previous issue any mixture. fairs 
where this has been done; they have sold quantities ranging 
between and 290 copies (and the students have earned 
from $24 $217). 


THANKS 
word thanks Graham Kimball Carleton 
Northfield, for the loan his 15-year collection 
computer related cartoons. soon iron out the permissions 


MATTER ECONOMICS 


Creative Computing has expanded long way 
subscription revenue alone. However, there comes time 
every magazine’s life when must seek advertising. 
particular, each page advertising allows run 
additional pages editorial content (articles, games, 
stories, etc.). Five additional pages advertising would 
permit run 100-page issues. 

Unfortunately most potential advertisers say, 
should advertise with you? Who reads magazine 
(yeech) Frankly have time talk 
every potential advertiser, I’m asking you readers 
write note the Marketing Manager Advertising 
Manager your favorite computer vendor/book publisher/ 
electronics manufacturer/etc. and tell them they ought 


advertise Creative.. Thanks. DHA 


ONLY THE COMPUTER KNOWS FOR SURE 


your address you will find followed 
number. the direct mail service who keeps track our 
subscribers, identifies Creative Computing and the 
number identifies each individual subscriber. 

There also two-digit number the label like 
42. This indicates the Volume and Issue Number when your 
subscription expires, thus would indicate subscrip- 
tion that expires with Vol There issues per 
volume (or year). 

helps immensely you renew before your 
subscription expires, but sure indicate your order 


UNCOOL HAPPENINGS DEPARTMENT 
Digital Equipment Corp. has withdrawn sponsor the 
National Fair. 


the happy side, joined 
For details about Fair, 


problems, you'll begin see some them the pages Creative. 


Ww, 


QUANTITY PRICES FOR SCHOOLS, CLUBS, ETC. 


Bulk Current Back 

Quantity Subscriptions Issue Issues 

1-9 $8.00 $1.50 $1.50 


* 
CREATIVE COMPUTING 


BACK ISSUES 
NOV-DEC 1974 CHARTER ISSUE (Out print) 


JAN-FEB 1975 GENERAL TOPICS (Out print) 


MAR-APR 1975 COMPUTER CAREERS (Out Print) 
Computer Career for You? 
Profile the Computer Industry Job opportunities. 
Shorthand Instruction via Computer. 
Computer Cartoons complete analysis: 
Games: Rabbit Chase, Not One, Binary. 
Review BASIC books Summary and first four reviews. 


MAY-JUN 1975 SPACE EXPLORATION 

Games: Super Star Trek, Lunar Landing, Parachute Jump 
Any Pianet, ICBM Missile Intercept, Seawar, Geowar. 

Escape simulation about escaping the earth’s gravitation. 

Mr. 7th Sense real computer sensors. 

Trends Mathematics Curriculum Research. 

Computer Simulation the Atmosphere. 

Structured 

The Automobile and Air Pollution Writing your own 
computer simulation. 

Mr. Spock centerfold poster. 


SEP-OCT 1975 COMPUTER LITERACY 
Activities that don’t require computer. 
Games: Guess, Wumpus, Civil War, Reverse, Schmoo. 
Languages for learners: LOGO, Smalitalk. 
Towerd Human Computer Language. 
Building Computer Your Own Part 
“Compleat Computer (First installment) 


NOV-DEC 1975 COMPUTER IMPACT SOCIETY 
Computer Threat Society 
Turning With Computer Art 
Technology Doomsday for Individualism? 
Survey Public Attitudes Towards Computers 


Back issues are $1.50 each paid advance. billing charge 
$1.00 added all orders without payment enclosed. 


MEMBER 


COMMITTEE OF SMALL MAGAZINE 
EDITORS AND PUBLISHERS 


creative 


COMING SOON 


MAR-APR 1976 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND 
FUTURE COMPUTERS 
Smalier, faster, cheaper computers. 
Access computers museums, libraries and storefronts. 
what point does computer start think? 
Review every BASIC book print (6th and last installment). 


MAY-JUN 1976 COMPUTER ART 


This fantastic double-size, full color, quality paper, large format 
issue will the works leading computer artists from 
around the world. Guest editor for this special issue Ruth Leavitt, 
outstanding computer artist. 


Closing date for articles other material for issues months 
before the cover date. you want acknowledgement your 
submittal, please include stamped envelope. 


BULK SUBSCRIPTIONS 


Bulk subscriptions are avaitable Creative 
Computing. copies must sent the same address; 
minimum term the subscription one year. 


Quantity Price 
10-24 $7.00 each 
25-49 6.00 
50-99 5.00 
100+ 4.00 


CHAWGE ADDRESS 


Moving? Changing jobs? so, insure you get every 
issue Creative Computing, please send both your OLD 
and NEW address. Your code number which appears 
above your name the address label would help too. And 
all means, don’t forget ZIP code. (We heard recently 
that the USPS automatically incinerates all magazines 
without zip codes.) 


CREATIVE COMPUTING SUBSCRIPTION FORM 


Published bi-monthly issues per year 

1-Year $15.00 New Payment enclosed 
Institutional 3-Year $40.00 Renewal Please bill billing charge 
3-Year $21.00 and bulk subscriptions. 
3-Year $16.00 
(25-49 copies) 1-Year 6.00 
Bulk (100+ copies) 1-Year 4.00 

Sample Copy 1.00 


Return form to: CREATIVE COMPUTING, P.O. Box 789-M, Morristown, New Jersey 07960 


| 


CREATIVE COMPUTING Editorial 


Learning With Computer Games 


Brief History Sports and Games 

Sports and games have been with almost since the 
dawn man. The ancient Chinese and Egyptians de- 
vised astonishing array matheniatical and logical 
games (Nim, Towers Hanoi, Awari Kalah, etc.). 
The Greeks originated great many physical games 
their Olympic competitions. Medieval Europe was re- 
sponsible for many games played for recreation 
nobles’ courts (Chess, Hi-Q, etc.). Team are 
phenomenon the last few centuries, with many 
inating England and the United States. 


Throughout history, the common thread running 
through all sports and games that their intended 
function has been purely recreational. Games were 
viewed diversion from the realities life. 
Secondly, sports and games were and are leisure- 
time activity. early Europe, only the nobles, who had 
leisure time, played games. Even today, except for 
professional athletes, sports and games are generally 
considered outside, extra-curricular activities. 


Neveriheless, sports and games have generally hac 

some redeeming virtues. Merely serving break 
from the realities life probably enough assure 
games place history. But there more. Chinese 
philosophers spoke games sharpening one’s wit. 
Sports build the body just card, board and mathe- 
matical games build the mind. Team games heighten 
the spirit trust and cooperation. 


Games Educational Tool 

Not until the last years educational innova- 
tion, however, have games ever been used primarily 
educational tool where learning the primary 
purpose playing. Today, there growing body 
evidence which indicates that combination learn- 
ing games and student teams may well one the 
most effective approaches learning ever devised. 
study Edwards, DeVries, and Snyder (1972), the 
games-teams combination seventh grade classes 


_resulted significant several dimen- 


sions mathematics achievement. follow-up study 
1973 found that both games and teams represent 
useful techniques for restructuring classroom pro- 
cesses. Their effects are complementary that they 
create very different classroom experiences for stu- 
dents. Games cause students translate their 
increased interpersonal interaction into increased in- 
formal peer-tutoring the subject material hand. 
They are also likely view their class much more 
positive light. The addition teams traditional 
classroom meets rather different set objectives. 
Attending the class and encountering the subject 
matter not necessarily made more fun with 
games. However, students work together traditional 
classroom tasks much greater degree, resulting 
increased level mutual concern among the 
students. 


Other studies echo the results above. The learning 
effectiveness games has been frequently cited 
(Allen, Allen, and Ross, 1970; Boocock and Schild, 
1968; Fletcher, 1971). Learning games generally create 
intense and often enjoyable interpersonal experi- 
ence. This due part the interdependent task 
structure which requires interaction among the players 
(Inbar, 1968). 


Teams have been use longer educational 
technique. Generally has been found that students 
team outperform students working individuals. 
key reason for the effect teams has been the high 
rate peer tutoring (Wodarski, Hamblin, Buckholdt, 
and Ferritor, +971). 


mentioned earlier, because games and teams 
positively affect different classroom processes, com- 
bining the two techniques creates even more power- 
ful effect the learning environment. This turn 
translated into greater academic growth well 
increased trust and cooperation. 


Computer Games and Simulations 

People have written games for the computer almost 
since its birth. Many tended copies real life 
sports and games (football; poker, tic-tac-toe, etc.). 
Other games were written simulations other real 
processes with recreational quality (lunar landing, 
parachute jump, artillery weapon firing, etc.). Still other 
computer games were devised mainly for their recre- 
ational and mind-challenging value (game life, bulls 
and cows, mugwump, etc.). 


The educational value both playing and writing 
computer games substantial. They make ideal 
supplemental learning experiences when teaching 
about probability, statistics, logic, problem solving, 
decision making, and value clarification. 


David Ahl 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Allen, E., Allen, W., Ross, Virtues 
Nonsimulation Games.” Simulation and Games, 
1970, 319-326. 


Boocock, Schild, (Eds.) Simulation Games 
Learning. Beverly Hills, CA: Sage, 1968. 

Student. Teams: Their Effects Classroom 
Process.” American Education Research Journal, 
1973, 10, 307-318. 


and Teams: Winning Combination.” Simulation 
and Games, 1972, 247-269. 


Fletcher, “The Effectiveness Simulation Games 
Learning Environments.” and Games, 
1971, 425-454. 

Inbar, “Individual and Group Effects Enjoyment 
and Learning Game Simulating Community 
Disaster.” S.S. Boocock Schild (Eds.), 
Simulation Games Learning, Beverly Hills, CA: 
Sage, 1968, Pp. 169-190. 

Wodarski, S., Hamblin, L., Buckholdt, Ferritor, 
Individual and Group Contingencies 
Arithmetic Paper presented the 
meeting the American Educational Association, 
New York, January, 1971. 


JAN-FEB 1976 


DEFINITIONS 


the world computer education and recreation 
number terms are used which are sometimes confused 
with one another. 


Puzzle problem that has baffling quality great 
intricacy, that one must exercise substantial mental 
ingenuity and thought solve. 


Game amusement sport involving competition 
under specific set rules. The competition may 


against oneself against laws chance such 
solitaire roulette. 


process, situation, event, frequently computer. 


One might think puzzles, games and simulations 
having certain overlap follows: 


Publication 
Available 


Xerox University Microfilms 


300 North Zeeb Road, 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106 
(313) 761-4700 


PLEASE WRITE FOR 
COMPLETE INFORMATION 


Now that you have all together, you're ready for 


Now that you have the theory under your 
Now that you have assembled your own 


Now that ready compute... 


should subscribe POPULAR COMPUTING, the only monthly 
publication designed for computists (those interested the art computing). 
Yes, there are other people like you who are interested the art computing. 


FEATURES 
Reviews Problems Reader Interaction Facts 
Books For students and solutions Timeless information, the value your 
computing teachers Comments and copies will not decrease with time. 
Electronic desk Flowcharts, and results Facts about certain integers (including roots 
calculators solutions and logarithms) very high precision. 


All this, plus the only on-going series essays the Art Computing. 


BOX 272 CALABASAS, CA. One (U.S.) $15 when remittance accompanies 


The art thinking SOME OTHER FRIEND 
one thinking best 
comprehended with 


THE JOURNAL 


Please reserve current volume issues 

per year) cost $3.50 per year. 

Foreign Subscriptions $4.25. 


Name 


Address Journal 


subscription Satire And Humor 
From: 


Read From Cover Cover 


8 CREATIVE COMPUTING 


(~~ 


Input/ Output 


Dear Editor: 

few comments Sept-Oct issue: Some nice, spirited 
Input-Output! healthy sign, trust. The Com 
puter Catalogue” good idea. Computer Languages” 
and Human Computer Language” are good 
start into the subject. page found the Logo example 
rather confusing, though. 

liked “Hunt the Wumpus” but, just curiosity, 
why must Gregory Yob shoot the Wumpus? Wumpus 
seems like nice sort creature and probably en- 
dangered species, boot. Why not tag the Wumpus (for 
wildlife field survey), photograph the Wumpus, simp- 
find the poor thing and see knows anything inter- 
esting? now, step the Throw- 
ing mud can see game. would prefer shooting 
things not universally associated with playing 

you and “Life Auction” are good ex- 
ercises. It’s certainly good idea start thinking about 
such things young possible. 

“Learning about Smalltalk” thought was really good. 
Keep printing things like that 

“Trots and should safe enough, but suppose 
some people will upset scooper.” Sigh. 

other words—a good issue. 

I’m working short article the various proposed 
interstellar messages. Are the decoding the ones proposed 
and sent far really obvious non-Earth being? 
include BASIC program for messages the 
prime factor bit string type can write reasonable one, 

How would you feel about article, series articles, 
logic? Starting out ground zero with syllogisms and 
working slowly through propositional calculus and simple 
digital logic simple first order predicate. Programming 
possibilities included, course. 

John Lees 
Rolla, 


What other readers think about series articles 


(MoRE LETTERS PG. 34) 


JAN-FEB 1976 


STARTREK 
Dear Editor: 

really like Creative Computing. think far superior 
most the other magazines that are available (and not 
trade journals like Modern Data). not game freak 
not even play own STAR TREK in- 
terest simulation. STAR TREK acts good vehicle 
make the game challenging possible requiring good 
decisions the' players and presenting dynamic en- 
vironment. Along these lines, your article about Forrester’s 
fascinated me. would like see more 
about the Club Rome reports Creative Computing. 

Most the letters have received from people concerning 
STAR TREK have been requests for copies the program. 
Not too many have been interested .in algorithm develop- 
ment. The latter was what really intended. I.E.—a clearing- 
house copies various programs. that 
context, disappointed the response. 

Enclosed version STAR TREK (written FOR- 
TRAN IV-G) that runs our IBM 360-65. don’t know 
you really want it—but here anyway. 

Peter Weiss, COMSAT, 
950 L’Enfant Plaza, SW, 
Washington, 20024 


Wky not Peter you’re seriously involved 
teresied the development new routines and algorithms 
for STAR TREK. not going print the FORTRAN 
version Creative (it would run pages). you want 
copy, write Peter and, although asked for it, 
why not send him $1.00 cover his copying and mailing 
costs. —DHA 


Hooray Basic 
Dear Editor: 


Your magazine great. It’s just what high school stu- 
dents who run BASIC minis with TTY want. 

course, BASIC has drawbacks and wouldn’t want 
confined for usage, but for understanding program 
reading it, BASIC the best commonly used language. 
Reading, after all, what the programs are for. Certainly, 
like run some them but don’t have time run 
them all, even though sometimes pick new programming 
techniques from reading them. 

When run them usually make several revisions any- 
way and BASIC easy change into other languages, 
more than the reverse. don’t feel you accomplish much 
copying program exactly. Getting back original 
point, easier for the author change BASIC than 
for all the readers try and decipher more difficult lan- 
guage that they have training (if they even bother). 

interested learning new languages and like your 
column “On Languages” and the articles about SMALL 
TALK and Human Computer but keep these 
programs BASIC. 

Paul McCullough 
Flint, Michigan 


9 
Dear People: YOONGEST 


Please send subscription Creative Computing. 
years old and the second grade Earle 
Davis School. 

Thank you. 

Lynda Marie Wasula 
North East, 


David Ahl 


@ 


A 


was stayin’ after school week ago 
told teacher where she could 


@e 


She had settin’ this big old room 
With bunch machines that just looked like doom 


There’s this big Mutha machine with flashin’ lights 
And couple funny-lookin’ electric typewrites 


Well thought I’d type somethin’ for the fun 
hunted and pecked out just one word 


Before could lean back chair and get steady 
That machine typed WHAT, and then said READY 


typed whole line them four-letter words 
But just replied WHAT and READY like hadn’t heard 


Well figured since couldn’t out fishin’ 
teach that stupid machine listen 


picked this book called Teach Yourself BASIC 
And sat down that Teletype prepared face 


First found make that machine type bit 


And then found out that thing could add 
And subtract and multiply and divide like mad 


found out too knew all kinds games 
Like craps and blackjack and cannon aim 


@ 


was havin’ all kinds fun when that teacher walked 
She just looked output and started grin 


kind sheepishly asked could stay while more 
She said, when you just shut the door.” 


tried some more games like football and poker 
And parachute written some kind joker 


There was one where could try land the moon 
would crash and blow fired the engines too soon 


Well, played through supper and into the night 
And then finally quit when saw dawn’s first light 


be 


girls know are whole lot cuter 
But found new kind high with that computer 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


= 


COMPLEAT 


welcome entries from readers for 
“Compleat Computer Catalogue” 
any item related, even distantly, 
computers. Please include the name 
the item, brief evaluative description, 
price, and complete source data. 
item you obtained over one year ago, 
please check with the source make sure 
still available the quoted price. 
Send contributions Compleat 
Computer Catalogue,” Creative Comput- 
ing, P.O. Box Morristown, 
07960. 


BOOKS AND 
BOOKLETS 


TICCIT, PLATO REPORTS 

Two evaluative progress/status reports 
about the PLATO and TICCIT CAI 
systems are available from National 
Science Foundation. Some PLATO 
plasma/microfiche terminals are now 
use served two host installations 
and Florida. TICCIT uses 
computer/user controlled color termi- 
nal are operative 
Utah, Arizona, and Virginia. 

Also available from the NSF are 
summary abstracts 1975 awards 
granted the Technological Innovation 
Education Section. Progress reports 
and awards listing free. 

Erik McWilliams, Technological 
Innovation Education, Directorate for 
Science Education, National Science 
Foundation, Washington, 20550. 


MECHANICAL GARDEN 

This wild 192-page book Darrell 
Forney collection graphics from 
the commonplace (old postcards, catalog 
illustrations) the unexpected (schemat- 
diagram hollow planet, UFO 
photo) the bizarre (1890 African 
illustrated, sewing machine 
powered dog). Lots fun! Printed 
newsprint (like Creative Computing). 
$5.00 postpaid. 
Darrell Forney, Mechanical Garden, 
Box 35, Bolinas, 94924. 


JAN-FEB 1976 


MAGAZINES, 
JOURNALS, 
NEWSLETTERS 


COMPUTER NOTES 

Computer Notes substantial 
monthly tabloid newspaper serving the 
Altair Users Group plus anyone else 
interested the Altair line computer 
kits. carries articles MITS engineers 
and software people letters 
questions and answers, 
software notes, etc. Dave Bunnell, the 
capable editor Computer Notes usually 
has some interesting ramblings also 
description the World’s First Computer 
Store the computer fair Lawrence 
Hall Science. WARNING: you get 
the newsletter, you’re probably going 
want computer kit very, very badly. 
Notes $10/year, sample copy 
ree. 

MITS, 6328 Linn N.E., Albuquerque, 
87108. 


BYTE 

Byte new magazine edited Carl 
Helmers who previously produced the 
Experimenters Computer System news- 
letter building computer from 
scratch. bills itself small 
systems journal” and basically covers the 
computer hobbyist field: hardware pro- 
jects, using surplus equipment, tutorials, 
games, programming (in low-level 
machine code), etc. The third issue (Nov 
1975) contents are typical: ins and outs 
chip designs, paral- 
lel output new ROM 
programmer, writing pseudo instruction 
sets, and the hexapawn game for machine 


RESOURCES 
AND 
TOOLS 


code. For those into hardware, this 
great mag. Monthly. per issue. 
single copy $1.50. 

Green Publishing, Peterborough, 
03458. 


THE COMPUTER HOBBYIST 

excellent technical/hardware news- 
letter. Tutorial articles, construction, 
cassette interface, surplus parts and how 
use them, 8008 graphics system, 
etc. Builders from scratch (of ‘which 
not one) seem like this one the best. 
Monthly. $6/year. Back issues (started 
Dec 74) sample copy 50¢. 

The Computer Hobbyist, 
Cary, 27511. 


GAMES 
AND 
SIMULATIONS 


SERIOUS COMPUTER GAMES 

Eight serious computer games are 
available paper tapes from ERC. They 
are: Planet Management, Mouse the 
Maze, Stretching Springs, Oceanography, 
Friction Force, Paramecium Population, 
Photosynthesis, and Reaction Mag- 
nesium Hydrochloric Acid. $8.00 each. 

Elaine King, Education Research 
Council America, Rockefeller 
Cleveland, 44113. 


Box 295, 


GAMES FOR CLASSROOM EARTH 

The idea game, fence game, freedom 
games, ethics game, gasoline game, 
outdoor community games tournament, 
yes and even some computer games 
king, and lunar landing) and 
many others. are all Zephyros Primer 
#14. Ron Jones, editor this fabulous 
series primers, adds new ones 
collection every year. Great 
graphics, new ideas. Primer #14 
$2.50, others $1.50 $4.50. 

Ron Jones, Zephyros, 1201 Stanyan 
St., San Francisco, 94117. 


Only page 
mouth because we. 


DIGITAL 


produced 
first VIS-U-COMP rendition, conjuring unnerving scenario which com- 
puters are nearly rejected masse enraged society. only rescue 

themselves with astounding shift focust From the irritation much 

misuse and quackery, computer technology developes pearl: 


What suspense! Last issue,. the massive machinations 


The Generator! 
device enables home viewer _AND NATURALLY, 
PSYCHOLOGICAL STRESS EVALUATOR AMERICAN 
UNIT reads variences voice fre- 
quencies, determines com- 
putes, and signals when person 
fibbing! Feb. Panicked 
legislators rush bill through 
Congress prohibiting its use 
proceedings and bans direct 


Undaunted, commercial interests 
and-T.V. industry backers devise 
iticians are invited 
are programmed with all 
pertinent information. The 
bator's voices are fed into the 
Evaluator, and converted into 
images,.colors, and si- 
electronic soundtrack 
based voice frequency modula- 


then the task 
viewers debate 
the credibility 

the speakers from 
idence within those 

(by predeter- 
criteria) 


Gosh! But amazingly, there's more. The home viewer may then 
extract claims politician,, punch into home terminal linked 
ment and receive brief scenario immediately 
following said claim, along with its probability rating! 

Once again the world safe for democracy.. 


ide CREATIVE COMPUTING 


= 


Knocking the biggest old tradition. Today, IBM 
not only makes much profit all the-other com- 
puter manufacturers combined, also receives 
much criticism all the others put together. Some 
the judgments are deserved. Still, IBM must 
doing something right. Even though IBM computers 
aren’t the fastest the best, the company has 
reputation for service and support that competi- 
tors find hard beat. Detractors say that computer 
buyers are preconditioned IBM’s past record 
accept IBM the greatest. 

MITS has sold thousands the Altair 8800 micro- 
computer kits, many more than all the other kit- 
makers combined, and has been widely criticized 
the hobbyist newsletters for late delivery, for delivery 
“in bits and pieces,” for poor design, and for in- 
adequate manual. All true, yet the 
outsell all other kits. How long this last, how- 
ever, big question. Although MITS may said 
have gotten there new companies are 
appearing with kits that may turn out the 
“mostest,” and which may become bestsellers. But 
matter how good kit competitor may have, 
the Altair, which heavily advertised, especially 
technical trade magzines, several which are 
bound—in the complete four-color, 24-page 8800 
brochure. 


Building the Altair 8800 


Starting build the 8800 pretty much like 
Starting Heathkit radio receiver. There are instruc- 
tions telling how, and drawing that shows where, 
install the ICs (integrated circuits), followed 
similar sections installing the resistors, capac- 


JAN-FEB 1976 


BUILDING MITS ALTAIR 8800 
FIRST IMPRESSIONS 


Steve Gray, Amateur Computer Society 


itors, etc. The MITS manual not detailed 
Heathkit manual, nor would one expect be. 
However, there are some problems building the 
8800, sometimes due information lacking the 
manual, someiimes due what seems poor 
mechanical design, and sometimes because lack 
thoroughness the manufacturer checking 
out the parts lists, the parts supplied, and having 
ihe two match up. For instance, some the solder- 
pads for capacitors are close other pads, 
printed wiring, that solder bridge all too easy 
make. The installation the heat sinks calls 
for silicone grease, yet the parts list doesn’t mention 
any. you buy some, and after -finishing the 
kit, and checking out the parts left over, you 
find that what looks like bit white paint, 
small capsule, the heat-sink grease you needed. 


There are other leftover parts that will make the 


builder wonder left anything out. Each front- 
panel switch comes with two nuts, lock washer, and 
positioning ring. Yet the drawings show only nut 
used with each switch. What about those other 
parts? 

Anyone building 8800 should first learn 
tell the difference between 8-32 and 6-32 screws, and 
between and washers. Even after does, he’ll 
have trouble with the screws, nuts and washers, be- 
cause what supplied doesn’t match with what’s 
called for. 

Questions will arise that most builders won’t 
able answer for themselves, and which they will 
probably have write (or call) MITS about. For in- 
“Is there any difference, the memory 
boards, between the-SN74L04 ICs called for, and the 
SN7404 ICs provided?” 


The Wires 


One the biggest problems, familiar every 
8800 builder, that the three-foot wires, which 
must soldered, one one, into holes around the 
edge the Display/Control board. matter how 
careful the buiider is, several are bound pop off; 
not this point, then later when the other ends 
the wires are soldered the expander board. MITS 
eliminated this problem their new kit for the Altair 
680 (based the Motorola 6800), which the com- 
puter board plugs directly into connector the 
front-panel board. 

The various resistors and capacitors that have 
outboarded several 8800 boards seem indi- 
cate that this Altair wasn’t fully field-tested before 
the design was frozen. 

Sooner later, the constructing the 
8800, the builder realizes should have read the 
entire manual before soldering sing!e component, 
that some the required can 
made early stages. Thus might prefer solder 
the braid the bottom the power-sunply 
board before screwing this board the chassis. Not 
that it’s impossible later on, but it’s not easy 
the point comes the manual, when there 
are many wires hanging it, and must 
put back into place with all those spacers and 


Programming the 8800 


After finishing the 8800, the builder given 
simple addition problem enter into the memory 
and run. But after enters the program, and proof- 
reads it, may find—if his 8800 uses memory 
boards with Signetic 2604 RAMs, many which “do 
not meet the required specifications for access time 
and refresh period,” the MITS newsletter puts 
(in recalling all such memory boards)—that various 
bits will drop out, and the program will not run cor- 
rectly. This somewhat disheartening, even 
can make the program work relocating 
unaffected part memory. Only one other program 
provided the manual, multiply program. 


Checking out the 8800 requires great 
deal flipping the front-panel switches and 
down. The switch-handles are short, protruding 
less than.3/8 inch beyond the panel, that the front- 
panel lettering can soon worn off, and one’s 
nerves soon worn down well. Longer handles, 
been used. 


The 8800 Manuals 


Let’s take closer look the manual, MITS 
puts it, the set manuals. The 82-page Assembly 
Manual fairly well done, and shouldn’t give much 
trouble anyone with even minimum kit-build- 
ing experience. The problems are more with assem- 
bling the parts, rather than with the instructions 
themselves, such the three-foot wires that 
break off easily, the LEDs that somehow must 
made protrude just the right distance from the 


board, the jungle wires the 


power supply, etc. 

The “Theory Operation Schematics” 
more closely resembles the set notes design 
engineer might make, and then hand technical 
writer with the request “make manual out 
shot technician, could get good understanding 
how the 8080 works, from these pages text and 
half-dozen schematics. The most important ICs are 
shown blank boxes, without any explanation 
what goes inside: the 8080 MPU, 8212 (system 
latch), and the memory 

The takes much for granted: “Note 
that the PRDY and PHOLD signals are synchronized 
the leading edge the clock,” although isn’t 
all that obvious most the readers. The entire 
discussion the CPU two pages, and that’s 
all the Display/Control board operation gets. The 
Power Supply operation covered ten sentences. 
These pages tell little the what and where, but 
little nothing about the why. There 
sion the CPU Display/Control on-board regu- 
lator schematics. 


'y 
«? a i 4 y 
CREATIVE COMPUTING 


The Manual takes pages. The In- 
troduction consists three pages Boolean logic 
and truth tables, two electronic logic (gates), 
paragraph number systems, three short pages 
the binary system, page generalities com- 
puter programming, two pages simple program 
for adding two numbers, page computer 
languages. 

The part Organization the Altair 8800 in- 
cludes page with block diagram. but without any 
explanation whatever, five pages the CPU, 2/3 
page memory, three sentences the clock, 
and third page One sentence 
notes that “subtraction and division are implemented 
inverse addition,” yet inverse addition left un- 
explained, word example; not even binary 
addition shown. Figure 2-3, The Working Regis- 
ters, different enough from Figure 2-2, the CPU 
diagram, cause confusion. Only few the CPU 
blocks are explained, leaving many others the 
reader’s imagination. 


One Part Detail 


One part the manual explained detail, 
telling how load simple program that adds two 
numbers, using LDA, MOV, ADD, STA, and JMP. The 
meaning each mnemonic explained, then the 
mnemonics are repeated along with the bit patterns 
they represent. This then repeated, with octal 
equivalents the bit patterns. The reader then 
shown how enter the program with the front- 
panel switches, all very clearly. short section, 2/3 
page, tells how store the numbers 
added, detail. 

This whole section written the detail that the 


whole manual should be, with all the explanations 


the reader should given. But perhaps this detail 
given here because this the most important part 
the entire manual; without such detail, the builder 
can’t figure out how to-run simple program, and 
thus able use the computer he’s spent 
weeks months abuilding. 

The only other program the entire manual 
for binary multiply, unaccompanied single word 

explanation. 


JAN-FEB 1976 


The single page Memory Addressing de- 
scribes, several sentences each, the various 
addressing modes for the 8800. The page Operat- 
ing Hints covers three items: proofread your pro- 


grams; scatter NOPs through complicated program, 


that new steps can added necessary; for 
debugging, use the SINGLE STEP switch and observe 
the status LEDs. 

The rest the manual, pages, covers the in- 
Struction set. For each, the manual gives the mnem- 
onic, bit pattern, what operation caused the 
instruction, what status bits are affected, and some- 
times brief example. The example assumes some 
knowledge programming, does the paragraph 
operation. For the operation paragraph reads, 
“Implementation the instruction resets any in- 
terrupt flip-flop. This causes the computer ignore 
any subsequent interrupt signals.” 

Again, this explains what and where, but not 
why. There are programs, other than the two brief 
ones for add and multiply, demonstrate the use 
all these instructions, there should help 
the reader write his own programs with them. Many 
readers able progress beyond using only 
few the basic instructions, unless they get some 
help, either the form sample programs, 
text the use this (or similar) instruction set. 

These pages are fine for programmer already 
familiar with assembly language, but the beginner 
will almost totally lost. 

appendix pages condenses the instruc- 
tion set into tables. 


Memory for the 8080 


Since some memory needed make the com- 
puter work, let’s take look the documentation for 
the RAM board. The pages Theory 
Operation explain the refresh operation, with schem- 
atic references, telling what, but not why, other 
than say, after several paragraphs about which 
pulse goes where, that “the output this circuit 
provides 500 nanosecond, +12 volt pulse the 
RAM IC’s accomplish the required access.” 

The errata sheet says diode will 1N746A 
3.3 volt zener, unless “your kit supplied with the 
Intel C2107A’s,” which case “this diode will 
1N4733, zener instead.” Mine was 1N4742A. 

The last page contains modification the 
power supply, add paraileled pair resistors, 
but nothing all why. 

The “first impressions” must end here, because 
waiting for MITS return the memory boards, 
and send some software. Next time, look 
into the programming, both assembly language 
and BASIC, and into more the hardware, in- 
cluding interfaces. 


Despite the Knocks 


Despite all that can said against the Altair, the 
8800 well its way becoming the best-known 
and most-used microcomputer kit the decade. 
may not the best (the Sphere seems have many 
advantages) nor the best supported (the 
vides much more software help, print), but 
today’s bestseller. And unless some other company 
can fight this already well-established computer kit 
with bigger and better advertising campaign (and 
not necessarily with better computer kit), then the 
8800, the 680 and future Altair computers will give 
MITS the micro-equivalent IBM’s continuing and 
overwhelming success. 


Pro: Calculators 
make tedious 
math fun, fast 
and accurate, 
educators and 
students agree. 
When used for 
creative prob- 
lem solving, 
motivation 
students seems 
spontaneous. 


Conrad, Washington, D.C., second 
grader, billion, 296 million seconds 
old right now. Or, you prefer, 
seven years, three months and five 
days. you ask him how knows, 
tell you figured out his 
calculator. that sounds little un- 
settling, relax. Conrad getting 
first-hand lesson using his father’s 
$40 electronic hand calculator 
school. And although some parents are 
complaining the basics of. education 
are being undermined machines, the 
kids seem love it. 

Pocket math, it’s called, has been 
assaulted all sides, but both the 
manufacturers electronic hand cal- 
culators progressive educators are 
anxious see one every classroom, 
not one every desk. Some first 
graders. already doing basic addi- 
tion with calculators the minute their 
teachers feel they understand the prin- 
ciples, and high-school and college 
students are buying calculators 
they were radios. 

Some calculators cost little 
$20, about the same some text- 
books, and instructors say they could 
become required equipment ad- 
vanced math classes. The pocket-sized 
units are already replacing textbooks 
elementary schools, and teachers are 
hoping that what once seemed 
children tedious labor may, 
the calculator, become fun. 

Opponents calculators say that 
kids won’t know how count their 
calculator batteries ever dead, just 
TV-oriented students longer seem 
know the basics grammar and 
spelling. The device, critics contend, will 
make pencil-and-paper math obsolete. 

But instructors who are using them 
take the opposite stand. They say that 
calculators stretch the student’s inter- 


Deedee Pendleton 


est, allow for more relevant kinds 
problems (how far the moon?) 
and increase motivation. Because 
their speed and accuracy, calculators 
lend themselves complicated prob- 
lems previously avoided grade- 
school teachers. 

“One the important uses hand 
solve more interesting problems, and 
work out large divisions which 
would otherwise discourage them,” says 
George Springer, Indiana University 
mathematics instructor. Thus, oversim- 
plified problem solving becomes un- 
necessary. 

Teaching the basics before letting 
the child experiment with the calcu- 
lator, many arithmetic teachers say, 
essential for the machine’s best use. 
“The hand-held calculator can 
very valuable tool, but only oper- 
ator who understands the basic ideas, 
concepts and meanings behind the in- 
stantaneously generated answers pro- 
vides,” says Frank Hawthorne 
the New York State Education Depart- 
ment. the abacus, calculator 
provides little help learning 
computational skills. 

Calculators will help children adjust 
more readily technological world, 
Springer says, and will make easier 
for them understand decimals, 
which the metric system 

There some opposition the cal- 
Douglas Lapp, Fairfax County (Va.) 
science curriculum specialist, but 
says isn’t always valid. “Americans 
are particularly prone think technol- 
ogy will offer easy solutions every- 
thing, when fact simply solves 
existing problems, but does nothing 
automatically. 

“The fundamental problem math 

16 


Con: Mechanization 
fundamental 
classroom skills 
may leave kids 
unable 

simple math 
paper. The cost 

for electricity 

batteries may 
make operating 

the device daily 
too expensive. 


education still that kids too often 
don’t know the meaning mathemati- 
cal education and learn any 
more than they did rote memoriza- 
Lapp says. “We need first 
them concrete specific solutions 
physical models for 
they can later transfer con- 
cepts.” Jill Horlick, elementary- 
school math specialist, agrees. “The 
calculator doesn’t think for you; 
doesn’t have brain.” She says that 
once her students can understand the 
theory multiplication, they can adapt 
their knowledge their imaginations. 
“Kids normally think about the uni- 
verse; they love manipulate large 
numbers because makes them feel 
important. Why stop [the child] from 
thinking beyond those numbers just 
because doesn’t have the tools yet?” 

New mathematical principles adapted 
for the calculator classroom are in- 
evitable, Horlick maintains. More em- 
learning judge which the answers 
the calculator gives reasonable. 
addition, decimal placement becomes 
much more understandable, she says, 
because the calculator able pro- 
vide answers digits, far 


‘beyond young child’s ability 


calculate paper. Children too often 
become bogged down the complexity 
problem paper, “and lose sight 
the problem they are trying 
solve,” while the calculator eliminates 
the long rows numbers usually as- 
sociated with four-digit multiplication 
problems. 

Douglas Grouws, University of. 
Missouri mathematics education in- 
structor, holds that educators “must 
pay careful attention with regard 
how use [calculators] class- 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


Calculators Classroom 


Reprinted with permission from Science News. Copywright 1975 Science Service, Inc. 


~ 


Calculators 

room. don’t think availability will 
necessarily eliminate the need 
able calculate hand. However, 
the calculator may shift the emphasis 
away from proficiency hand calcula- 
tions greater emphasis the 
meanings the operations and when 
they can appropriately applied.” 
Grouws recommends using calculators 
combination with basic arithmetic 
skills by, for example, providing them 
students check handworked prob- 
lems. 

But Horlick maintains that using the 
calculator for combination 
cesses essential. defeating 
the purpose you only used the cal- 
culator check answers. The child 
wouldn’t learning use the princi- 
ples the calculator.” 

The primary question, her view, 

“Does the student know what he’s 
doing?” Much more emphasis must 
placed on, “What does all mean?” 
than “How fast can you get the 
right answer?” Those most opposed 
calculators have gone far ban 
them from the classroom, fearing that 
the device could become crutch and 
keep students from learning the basic 
mathematical skills. Another argument 
for calculators, though, that they 


make complex and realistic teaching 
exercises possible (how many cubic 
centimeters would take fill this 
room?). First graders, Horlick says, 
love plan family vacation, calcu- 
lating costs gas, motels and food. 

survey teachers, mathemati- 
cians and laymen MATHEMATICS 
TEACHER magazine has revealed that 
percent those polled opposed 
giving every seventh-grade student 
calculator use during his secondary 
education, but percent agreed that 
“availability calculators will permit 
treatment more realistic application 
mathematics, thus increasing student 
motivation.” 

Virginia’s Fairfax County, math 
teachers voluntarily agreed permit 
high-school students use calculators 
for homework and for some class as- 
signments, but forbid their use 
tests unless every student the class 
has one. 

“With prices low for calculators, 
it’s more flight the imagination 
buy textbook,” Springer says. When 
industry uses metrics and decimals ex- 
clusively, adds, students taught 
use calculators school able 
adapt quickly. There one calcu- 
lator for every nine Americans, and 


students who 
often borrow 
parents. 
essential part 
and computer 


can’t afford their own 
calculators 
device has become 
training statistics 
science. 

1976, the price some calcula- 


The 


$10. does, the possibility sup- 
plying public schools with them, and 
consequently incorporating them into 
elementary- and high-school math pro- 
grams, may become very real. 


appears though Deedee Pendle- 
ton could have used, calculator her- 
self when she wrote her article “Cal- 
culators the classroom.” Her open- 
ing sentence states that Conrad, Wash- 
ington, D.C., second grader, years 
months and days old, and that this 
figures out billion 296 million sec- 
onds. she had checked her second 
grader’s results with her own calculator 
she would have seen that his age actually 
figured out slightly less than 230 mil- 
lion seconds! 

billion seconds actually quite 
long time. One the techniques used 
impress upon the general public the dif- 
ferences between million and billion 
(particularly when the Federal budget 
being discussed) point out that 
million seconds just over 11% days, 
while billion seconds about months 
short years! 

William Robinson, P.E. 
Solon Mills, 


Tips for Buying Pocket Calculator 


“Miniature, 
tors could become common 
kids’ desks pens, pencils and 

says the superintendent 
‘major urban school system. the 
price these tiny mathematical 
wonders drops more 
and more students will able af- 
ford them. 


Right now, you can buy basic. 
four-function model (add, subtract, 
multiply and divide) for little 
$19.95. The lowest price year ago 

was closer $90. Next year, the 
price for the least expensive 
could drop below $15. 

Whether student should using 
calculator for doing homework 
depends the math teacher you 
talk to. Some say the little machines 
are great and take lot the 
donkey work out working with fig- 
Others say the calculators 
become crutch and prevent. 
the student from really learning fun- 
damentals.’’ Some compromise 
saying junior high school 
so, students should their home- 
work the old way and only use the 


JAN-FEB 1976 


PETER 


calculators check their 

high school and college calcula- 
tors can greatly speed project, 
work math. science and business 
administration courses. But, high 
school students probably need more 


sophisticated calculators. which 


retain sums ima and can 
percentages or. square 
These machines cost around $70. 

Whether you're buying calcula- 
tor for student going back 
school for yourself use around 
the house (shopping. checkbook bal- 
ancing here are some things 
look for: 

Keyboard. Are the keys hard 
depress? Are they too close together 
for your fingers (pressing two down 
the same time)? you know 
clock sense touch? 

display. Are the num- 
bers easy read? are they 
broken lines that tend make 
eights look like zeros? Can you read 


models require reading head on)? 
Batteries. How long the bat- 
teries last before changing? Some 


17 


last only eight hours. other last 108 
hours. wall plug available? 


Systems. Some calcula- 
tors base their computing logic 
mathematical system. others base 


computing stacking system 
algebraic system. Algebraic easy 
for average users understand be- 
cause works the way you would 


state problem (100 minus equals 


75). 


Most manufac- 
turers give one-year warranties and 
are pretty good about fixing re- 


placing defective machines. But. 


who has send the machine back 
the manufacturer you the 


dealer? How long does take for 


repairs? For the inexpensive. $19.95 
calculators. probably worth 
have them repaired after the 
warranty runs out. would cost too 
much. few dealers are giving two- 
year warranties machines cost- 
ing $35 and up. 


buy extra mathematical 
functions you won't need matter 
how exotic and prestigious they 
sound. needless expense. 


General Purpose Calculator Ratings 


Consumer Reports rated general-purpose pocket 
calculators their September 1975 issue. These 
are the units that are one step functions 
and features from the basic 4-function unit. One 
important message: DON’T BUY EXTRA FUNCTIONS 
UNLESS YOU NEED THEM. The article and reviews 


PERSONAL 


KEY: Excellent; VG, Very Good; Good; Fair; Poor 


CASIO MINI-PRINTER FtoG 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2550 
SINCLAIR CAMBRIDGE MEMORY 
SCIENTIFIC 


Punch these problems into your pocket cal- 
culator, then turn around (180°) read the 
answer. For loads more calculator problems, 
see the four calculator books the Creative 
Computing Library advertisement. 


Ancient Arab Proverb: 
0.1283 47x15 


Where? 


And Then What? 


John Jackobs 
Heidelberg Coliege 


Pocket Calculator 


were excellent and recommend looking this 
issue before you invest pocket calculator. 
Presented below are some the performance 
factors that went into the ratings. The table 
order overall rating. 


‘ 


PERFORMANCE FACTORS 


DISPLAY 
Bright- 
ness 
Readability 


The Stock Market Dropping! 


Familiar Principle: 


That’s Big One! 


POOR HOUSE 


you buy 100,000 shares 
(ENTER 100000) margin $148.18 per share 
(ENTER 148.18), pay $472 commission (EN- 
TER 472), and the price goes down 25% 
(ENTER 0.25), what you find yourself in? 
David 


18 CREATIVE COMPUTING 


POCKET 


CALCULATOR 


1974 James Rogers, reprinted 
the publisher, Ran- 
dom Inc. 

Calculating Book, see Creative Com- 
puting Library elsewhere this issue. 


Now your informative and versatile 
machine going tell you the month 
and day your birth, together with 
your age. Hold your hat. 

Take the number representing the 
month your birth (January 
February, and on) and multi- 
ply 100. Add the date your 
birth. Multiply add multiply 
add multiply 10, subtract 
422, add your age and subtract 108. 
The result will num- 
ber; digit will tell the month 
your birth, the next two the date 
your birth (as, say, was 
before the 10th the month) and the 
last two your age. 


Your calculator can give you advice 
driving. Suppose you are cruising 
along miles per hour and you 
want know what advice your cal- 
culator would offer that situation. 
Divide 79.069767 and read the 
answer upside down. (If you are driv- 
ing that fast, maybe would better 
you put yourself upside down and 
left the calculator right side up.) 

you want talk back the cal- 
culator, giving either instruction 
opinion its character (de- 
pending your mood), enter 7334 
and read the answer upside down. 


your pocket and pull 
whatever change there. the 
amount, and with the total the 
starting point (used whole num- 
ber, omitting the decimal) the fol- 
lowing things: multiply 10, add 
multiply add and multiply 

The result will number end- 
ing 15. Discard the and sub- 
tract from what left. The answer 
will the amount change you 
started with. 


JAN-FEB 1976 


GAMES 


Imagine set chips, each which 
bears number from through 
They are lined the 
order: 6328907154. 

Problem: changing the 
order except moving digits from 
end end (making, for example 
4632890715), find the.two groups 
that can multiplied produce the 
third group. Here again you can put 
your calculator through multiplica- 
tion drill. (Hint: One multiplier has 


digits and one has two; the 


answer has five.) 


Take number having any reasonable 
number digits (as many six, say) 
and through the following abraca- 
dabra: 

Multiply 

Add 

Multiply 

Add 12. 

Multiply 10. 

Subtract 320. 

The result will number ending 
One more zeroes. Drop them and 
you will left with the number that 
you started with. 

Suppose you start with 52871. 
(You’d better write down.) Then: 
320 5287100. 


Starting with any three single digits, 
long they are different from one 
another, see you can find com- 
bination besides where the 
product contains the digits that you 
multiplied (126 this case). 

might strike you that this 
search for needle haystack. 
fact, however, there only one com- 
bination found. (Hint: One 
the multipliers 51. You therefore 
can limber your calculator 
some trial multiplications and 
the digits from through until you 
find combination that gives you 
answer containing and the num- 
ber you multiplied by.) 

You can drive yourself bit closer 
distraction trying the same thing 
with four digits. this case, with 
three, you can arrange them any 
way .(4716, for example, could 
and on). 

The number 3025 displays remark- 
when split into two 
parts, and 25. Add the two parts 
and square the result. 


| WEG S NGA 
| 
19 


Here’s challenging new 2-person game play your pocket calculator. 


KEYBOARD GAME 


Yarbrough 


Suppose someone approaches you, electronic 
calculator hand, and suggests that you play the 
following game: 

“We start selecting number enter into 
the calculator—say 100. Suppose choose the num- 
ber: then you pick key, from You subtract 


that number from the total. Then pick key, only 


key must next your key the Keyboard. 
subtract that, then you pick key next mine, 
and on. The first one turn the ‘minus’ sign 
loses the game.” 

For example, the key chosen, the next 
player may subtract only 1,2,5,7, from the total. 
chooses the other player may choose any 
key except chooses the next key chosen 
subtracting the value that key from the total. 


Before reading further, suggest you have some 
fun playing the game with friend. don’t have 
calculator, try pencil and paper. The. calculator 
just makes faster. And you play with 
calculator, remember always hit the (—) key after 
every number key. 

The winning strategy. for this game unusual 
way which will explain shortly. appreciate 
just how unusual is, though, let’s consider the 
solution related Keyboard game which much 
simpler analyze. Suppose take away any 
restrictions which the keys (1-9) can used 
each turn. Now the winning method will soon 
become easy see: just subtract the right-hand 
digit from the total. That, course, produces 
zero that position, unless there was already 
zero there. if, your turn, the total multiple 
ten—especially exactly zero!—you lose. 


Otherwise, you win. Now this means that the player 
who chooses the original total can win simply 
choosing multiple ten, and subtracting the 
right-hand digit whenever his turn play. 

This situation holds very large number 
games which two players play alternately: the 
selection the initial conditions the game 
quite often enough win the game. NIM 
classical example. The literature recreational 
mathematics filled with other examples. 

Now back our original Keyboard Game. ‘In his 
game, shall see, the player who makes the 
choice the first key has tremendous advantage. 
assume that the initial entry into the calculator 
large enough—say greater than 15—the player 
who chooses the first key can announce his choice 
the whole let the other player choose 
whatever starting total wishes, and still win the 
game. The winning strategy depends the position 
the first key, not its numeric value! 

can develop winning strategy for any given 
initial total building table, starting zero, 
and calculating the winning keys function 
currently available keys and winning strategies for 
lower totals. Figure shows the winning keys for 
given row and column means, “For the current total 
equal this row number, the key the head this 
winner, can get it.” “F” desig- 
nates key choice which gives our opponent 
chance For example, the total 10, 2is 
winning key: reduces the total and the only 


winning keys for are the and keys, which are 


the opposite side the keyboard. loser; re- 
duces the total and leaves the key our 
opponent. 

From Fig. clear that the corners the key- 
board, especially the offer winning 
opportunities for all initial totals above certain lim- 
it. Choosing any other key nearly always loses be- 
cause Our opponent can grab corner key and keep 
returning matter what try. For small 
totals need careful because ihe winning 
keys are not always the corner anymore. 

What include the key? give its 
nominal value, the game becomes very 
choose that key and keep returning it; our oppon- 
ent the only one who subtracts anything from the 
total. So. give value 10. You will enjoy investi- 
gating this variant_of the Keyboard Game for yourself. 
Actually, has several variants: some calculators 
the key under the key, others under the 
etc. this last version, with under there 
one key which winner for all totals above 35. 
leave you figure out which one is. 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


JAN-FEB 1976 


MAM 


PROBLEM 


Some yéars ago, mathematician 
employed one America’s leading 
aircraft manufacturing companies got 
into the habit ‘number-doodling’. 
Number-doodling where you start from 
some particular number telephone 
number, birthdate, car number, etc.) 
and see what sort mathematical 
peculiarities can developed from the 
number. 

turned out that the mathematician 
lived 153 Westpark Street. After some 
preliminary doodling with this number, 
noticed that added together the 
third powers the constituent digits, 
would arrive back the number 153. 
That is: 

153 
When tackled his four digit telephone 
number the same way, was 
agreeably surprised find the same 
effect. His telephone number was 8208. 
Summing the fourth powers the 
constituent digits gives the total 8208. 
That is: 
Armed with these two fascinating pieces 
methodically every number connected 
with his existence the same way. That 
is, for number with digits, each the 
constituent digits would raised the 
nth power and then summed, the hope 
that the sum was equal the original 
number. 
Surprisingly, the zip code the area 
which lived, 54748, was notable for 
exactly the same property. That 
55+45+75+45+85=54748 
And registration number, 
548834, displayed exactly the same 
peculiar property: 
And his employee number the aircraft 
company, too, was equally odd. Who else 
but mathematician could see any 
beauty number like 1741725? Still, 
you must admit that rather 
interesting that: 
Three other numbers that formed part 
his life also had this property. His bank 
account number (24678050), his driving 
licence number (146511208), and his 
Social Security number (4679307774). 
Thus: 

78050 


4104 G 104710491043 1040104 71047104 7104410 
=4679307774 

Would the reader care search for other 
numbers, ten digits long, that have 
the same properties? All told, there are 
more than these additional 
numbers, assuming that you exclude all 
question: what was the name 
town which our number-doodling 
mathematician lived? 


your number up? 

attention wanders once 
while, but the lapse could 
fatal the top the stairs, the 
road while using power tool. 

Block Hofstra University 
has researched new technique 
single out people who have trouble 
paying attention. The method can 
used predict person’s per- 
formance tasks requiring unin- 
terrupted attention. 

Block’s method involves illu- 
minated board with randomly ar- 
ranged numbers that glow five dif- 
ferent colors. The task locate 
the numbers order. Most people 
will find each seconds. 
says slow performance indicates 


momentary attention gaps, but very 


rapid performance may indicate 
person who sacrifices accuracy for 
speed. Both extremés can dan- 
gerous. 


Reprinted with permission from Games 
Puzzies. Copyright 1975 


(U.K.) Ltd. 


F 
iw 
34 
54 
84 
100 


ing 


Game theory compares blackjack systems 
and proposes teach computer backgammon 


The man who broke the bank 
Monto Carlo musical fantasy that 
grew out the avid interest many peo- 
ple have the things that happen 
green baize tables. The man who, ac- 
cording folklore, was told not re- 
turn Las Vegas because had won 
too much money there real. 
Edward Thorp, professor of. mathe- 
matics the University California 
Irvine. 

Lately Thorp has been looking for 
the best way, theoretical and prac- 
tical sense, beat the blackjack table. 
has devised way comparing the 
several blackjack systems against each 
other and theoretically best possible 
system. the same time his interest 
has turned that ancient, but recently 
trendy, game, backgammon. shared 
some his latest insights these 
topics with fellow mathematicians the 
recent National Mathematics Meeting 
Washington. 


Dietrick Thomsen 


counting the cards they fall. play 
proceeds, the deck depleted, and with 
the fall each card the player’s ex- 
pectation success changes. Removal 
deck changes the expectations dif- 
ferent amounts, Removal two nines 
does not have the same effect re- 
moval three fives. 

change, particular numerical value 
can assigned each denomination 
card. the cards fall from the deck 
running total these numbers 
kept. Different systems assign different 
numbers different denominations. 
They also differ how they use the 
running value total and the number 
cards remaining the deck. There are 
various combinations addition and 
division. There also difference 
whether the system keeps separate 
count aces. Aces have two values 


blackjack, and 11, and therefore some 
system makers like tally them sepa- 
rately. The result all this arithmetic 
used advise the player how bet. 

The question Thorp set himself was 
whether there some method 
paring the different strategies without 
doing massive computer simulation 
million hands. finds one and 
with each other and see they 
come theoretically possible opti- 
mum system. 

First needs definition “more 
advantageous.” may seem obvious 
that means greater chance win- 
ning, but the case complicated be- 
cause given system may give greater 
expectation winning when the play 


‘is particular stage, but may 


surpassed another different sit- 
uation. The final working definition 
advantage system that gives 
least good chance winning over 
alternative with least more risk 
the player. 

Thorp finds that can compare the 
quality systems defining ex- 
pectation function for each one that ex- 
presses its relative betterness. The ex- 
pectation changes play proceeds. 
depends the fraction cards re- 
maining the deck, and varies 
they fall. 

Graphically the expectations define 
surface called simplex, and the fall- 
ing cards causes motion from point 


point this surface the expecta- 


tion changes. Working with the geom- 
etry the simplex Thorp can compare 
system system, and finds that 
can define single number, which 
designates with the symbol lambda, that 
expresses system’s betterness relative 
others and its closeness theoreti- 
cally possible optimum system. Thus 
has analytic method for ranking 
blackjack systems and longer has 
simulate million hands com- 
puter compare them. But does 
not tell which the best possible 
system. 

Backgammon among the most an- 
cient games. set dating 2600 B.C. 
has been found. From the game theore- 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


} 


tician’s point view, says, the 
hope solving the problems that 
presents quite good. 

The game consists ladder 
cells. these, appear actual 
backgammon board. For the analysis, 
Thorp adds, the two “off the board” 
spaces each end into which counters 
that have successfully completed their 
journeys are put. Each counters 
start one end the board, and the 
object get them all across the 
board and off it, passing the other 
player’s counters coming the oppo- 
site direction, before gets his across. 
Moves are determined throwing dice. 

There important complication. 
counters both players arrive 
the same cell, there are situations where 
one can sent back the beginning 
its trip. This possibility repeated 
restarts makes the game theoreti- 
cal sense potentially infinite. princi- 
ple backgammon match could last 
forever. fact which will impede 
analysis slightly,” Thorp concedes. 

The way analyze the game 
set partial models that are simplified, 


JAN-FEB 1976 


removing complexities the real game, 
especially the one that makes in- 
finite, and then gradually add back 
the complications. Model each 
player has one counter, and the bounce- 
back rule suspended that the 
counters can freely pass each other. 
When this properly set produces 
game 167 steps. The first reach 
step 167 wins. Computer simulation 
shows that when goals are equal, the 
first player roll has slight advan- 
tage, but this declines toward even 
chance play proceeds. This very 
crude approach real backgammon 
game, but leads interesting insights, 
Thorp says. 

Model one sets end game. 
Again there are two counters, but they 
have already passed each other there 
further chance that they could 
sent back their starting points. This 
too finite game and amenable 
solution. 


One complication the real game is, 


the doubling cube. the game pro- 
ceeds, one player gains ‘certain 
advantage, can doubling 


23 


cube double the stakes. This changes 
the consequences for the loser and al- 
ters the expectations and strategy 
play. Recursion schemes can devised 
solve both Model with the doubling 
cube and the end game with the dou- 
bling cube. recursion 
system for calculating series 
values. Knowing the first number the 
series and the recursion scheme you can 
calculate the second. Putting the second 
number into the recursion scheme gets 
you the third. And on.) 

actual backgammon play pos- 
sible that the game might come down 
eventually Model Model II, but 
these highly restricted situations are still 
far from the complexity full game, 
which each player has several count- 
ers the board once and the 
bounce-back rule can operate. Still 
enough has been learned far for 
Thorp conclude that backgammon 
“can played better computer than 
by. any person.” But suppose the com- 
Reprinted with permission form Science 


News. Copywright 1975 Science Service, 
Inc. 


Computer-Planned Snowmen 


Robert McLean 
Ontario Institute for Studies Education 
Toronto, Canada 


Computer models are useful for testing theories. you 
computer program, you have powerful tool. computer 
can then produce many different instances the modeled 
process through the use range parameter values. 
will produce the results the model without being 
influenced extraneous notions what the outcome 
should be. addition investigating the range 
applicable parameter values, one can even push those values 
beyond limits and observe The 
computer tirelessly shows the results the chosen 


conditions without requiring very many input resources. 


the result the model picture, much the better; its 
adequacy can often judged visually the user very 
rapidly. What more, any pictorial outputs can very 
entertaining when they illustrate weaknesses the model 
data, thereby producing very unusual pictures. 

Computer modeling first seems like such 
high:powered idea that would hard apply for fun. 
Maybe ought reserved for sending men the 
moon, finding petroleum resources, managing large 
construction projects. Although these projects use model- 
ing, simple things that individual does can also benefit 
from these techniques. Consider building snowman, for 
instance. Here important problem for the individual 
which can solved with the power modern computing. 

choosing the proper aspects snowman 
parameters for our model, can use the computer draw 
pictures the resulting snowmen. can observe the 
shape hundreds combinations parameter values and 
select the most pleasing one for implementation with real 
materials. addition increasing the range choice 
available, this procedure has several other advantages. Most 
the design process well some the construction 
effort longer the mercy the weather. Much the 
work can done locations not previously suitable for 
this activity (home, office, school room, were not 
suitable places for snowman construction activity previous- 
ly). Valuable resources are not squandered making real 
prototypes since one will have better idea the outcome 
the process before starting use these materials. Thus, 
computer-planned snowmen become feasible areas where 
snow short supply. One can appreciate that the 
benefits are many. 

What are the parameters use modeling snowman? 
The reader may wish propose his own set; for purposes 
illustration, provide suggested set that were used 


design the accompanying illustration. Our standard 
snowman will consist three balls snow, referred 
(on bottom), (middle), and head. addition the 
features these components, will add hat and 
broom. This the. economy version, since could given 
many more accessories, such scarves, cigars, glasses, etc. 
These are left exercise for the reader. 

and are npt necessarily round; they often 
become somewhat flattened the load above. Thus, two 
parameters specify these balls: the radius the two half 
circles that form the curved part and the length the flat 
parts top and bottom the ball, RAD and SIZ 
respectively, giving the first four parameters, 
and B2RAD. The middle has, 
addition, some number buttons down its front (NBUT). 
These are spaced out over the vertical extent B2. 

the world economy snowmen, heads are always 
round; hence, there one head size parameter, HEAD, the 
radius the head. Five other parameters are used place 
the eyes, nose and mouth the head. this version the 
model, the nose always placed the center the head 
and always has the peculiar (carrot-like) shape shown. The 
sole parameter available the length the nose, 
NOSE. The eyes are located symmetrically above the center 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


i 
100 
200 
100 
WERO 
WATHT 
100 


the head along horizontal line EYEHT units above the 
center the head. They are separated EYEWD units, 
the interoccular distance. 

The mouth specified two parameters, where SMILE 
gives the length arc used denote mouth, and SMIL2 
gives the radius curvature that arc. Since models 
should strive for generality their parameters, SMIL2 may 
negative well positive. positive, the center the 
arc above the mouth, and negative, below the 
mouth. Thus, obtain the relationship that frown 
negative smile! The mouth always placed halfway 
between the nose and the chin, again aid simplicity. 

The remaining parameters specify the two 
accessories, the hat and the broom. HATWD and HATHT 
specify the width and height the hat; the brim always 
twice wide the hat. The broom perhaps the most 
difficult part the model and can seen looks more 


shovel kind interpretation) strike sign (less 


kind). surely leaves room for the reader improve the 
The parameters used here are BROOM, giving the 
length the handle, and BDISP, giving the distance that 
the broom handle upper end displaced the right from 
the lower end. Some very crude modeling results the 
funny quadrilateral that looks more like hoe some 
cases. 

The reader can, doubt, suggest refinements and 
encouraged so. The inspiration for this program came 
from faces and adaptation them 
that used adjust the parameters oral surgery and 
the various ways which facial features might 
rebuilt (Eisenfeld, al, 1974). But that’s pretty serious 
business. For the amateur simulator, there are many other 
possibilities. 


REFERENCES 


Chernoff, The use faces to. represent points 
n-dimensional space graphically. Tech. Report No. 71. Department 
Statistics, Standford University, Stanford, California, December 
1971. 

Eisenfeld, J., Barker, R., and Mishelevich, Iconic 
representation the human face with computer graphics. 
Computer Graphics 1974, 8(3), 


JAN-FEB 1976 


The 
Tower 
Brahma 


the great temple Benares beneath the dome 
which marks the center the world, rests brass 
plate which are fixed three diamond needles, each 
cubit high and thick the body bee. 
one these the creation, God 
placed sixty-four discs pure gold, the largest disc 
resting the brass plate and the others getting 
smaller the top one. This the 
Tower Brahma. Day and night unceasingly, the 
priests transfer the discs from one another, 
according the fixed and immutable laws 
Brahma, which require that the priest duty must 
not move more than one disc time and that 
must place this disc needle that there 
disc below it. When the sixty-four discs 
shall have been thus transferred from the needle 
which, the creation, God placed them, one 
the other tower, temple, and Brahmans 
alike will crumble into dust, and with thunderciap, 
the world will vanish. 

the priests were effect one transfer every 
second, and work twenty-four hours day for each 


day the year, would take them 58,454,204,609 


decades plus slightly more than years perform 
the feat, assuming they never made mistake—for 
one small slip would undo all their work. 

How many transfers are required fulfill the 
prophecy? 

Set program which allows the user 
move disks hand. You can try your ingenuity 
drawing the result some sort plot graph. 

least verbally, indicate how one would 
proceed any arbitrary case disks, disks, etc. 

The monks, like monks everywhere, never 
sleep, rest die. they have been moving one 
disk per second since the world began, how long 
will the total age the universe Thunderclap 
Day? 

Note: Prove that game disks can 

played (2-to-the-N, minus moves. 

Analyze the problem this way: move 
disks, what kind 4-disk moves are required? How 
“from” and “to” these moves the 
“from” and “to” the 5-disk level? 


255 
lo. 1023 


- 
200 
100 
160 
100 
100 
200 
120 
WATHT 
200 
25 


Sleeping 


Jack Ludwig and Jack Baron 


tasks long there ran REG/AL Unit and 
who Swapped each other every cycle their 


“Would that had HYBRID and yet they 


had none. But happened once that when the 
was algorithming, there came Freg* out the DIOCS,* 
and spooled the cassette and said, list shall 
fulfilled. Before shift has gone by, thou shalt bring data 
into the Core L’d.*” 

And the Freg foretold, happened; and the 


QUEUE, ASCII Data that. the 


REG/AL unit could not contain IMSeif* for JOYVIAL,* 
and ordained great Access. Not only did bid his 
Chains, Pointers, and Indices, but also the I/Os Drivers, that 
they might kind and Parity prioritze the Data. There 
were seventeen them his Low partition, but had 
only provided hexidecmal based golden page sets for them 
from which interleave, one them had left out. 
However, the Access was initiated with all linear 
positioning; and drew end, the I/Os Drivers 
stacked forward present the ASCII Data their 
wonderful gifts: one bestowed virtual, one priority, third 
registers, fourth gave binary and on, whatever there 
the Core list for. 

And when fifteen them had their say, 
came little five level baud OT, the uninvited seventeenth 
churning and overflowing reallocate herself, 
and without indirect relocatable loading, thrashed out 
the background, “In the SHARE her page 


your ASCII Data shall EBCDIC herself communicating with 


Infernal Bubble Memories and fall down abended. 

And without zeroing more word she turned away, 
reset the acumulator and left. Everyone re-verified her 
saying, when the real first the Drivers 
came forward (00), for she had not yet bestowed her gift, 
and though she could not away with the ill timed 
prophecy, yet she could Fail Soften it. she said, “This 
Data shall not abort, but fall into Wait State 
time slices and GIGA cycles.” 


26 


Now the REG/AL Unit, being designorous saving his 
baby Data even from this misfortran, gave commandment 
that all the devices his network should 
micro-coded for ASCII only. The young Data was enpolled 
and went elementree school, became data element, 
joined other elements and was activist device file 
table and her participation earned her poll list record and 
and on. Thus the maiden Data grew up, adorned with all 
the gifts the I/Os Drivers; and she was lively, optimal, 
swift, and kind and clever that task who used her could 
help linking her. She matured and grew. buffers, and 
parallel direct memory bus. She was real accumulator, and 
could she bump storage. happened one batch, she being 
already multishifts old that the REG/AL unit and 
displayed NCC, and the sacred Data was left behind 
the CACHEL. She wandered about into all the modes, 
subindices, and VTOCS, and into all the directories and 
libraries, the fancy took her, till last she came 
old translator. She climbed the narrow winding search 
argument which led little displacement with rusty 
index key sticking out the base lock. She turned the key, 
and the INSTR’OP’D, and there the CRYPTIC MODULE 
ROM sat old I/Os Driver with bent folded, mutilated and 
worst all spindied EBCDIC, where she was diligently 
modulating her hardwired messages. 

“Good Day, Driver,” said the Maiden Data. “What are 
you doing?” answered the old (11) 
Driver, nodding her head. 

that thing that twists round briskly?” asked 
the Maiden Data, and taking the Proms onto her associative 
lists, she began modulate, but sooner had she touched 
than the ill timed prophecy was fulfilled, and she 
EBCDIC’d her linker with it. that very Pica second she 
fell back upon the stack file addresses (SOFA) that stood 
there, lay deep irrecoverable Wait State. She has 
become QUEUED Task Control Block gone sleep, and 
this wait state fell upon the whole CACHE Memory; the 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


REG/AL unit and who had returned and were 
the great BALR, fell fast ASWAP, and with them the whole 
foreground. The MACROs their calls, the General Regs 
the Core, the regions the drum, the files the vol, the 
very lights that flickered the console became still, and 
waited like the rest; and the pack the spindle ceased 
rotating, and the controller who was going RE-IPL the 
floppy micro disk for some mistake made, let and 
joined the wait. And the Real Time Clock ceased, and not 
message fell from the TTY’s about the computation center. 


Then round about that place there grew ledger 
forms and requests thicker every cycle, until last the 
center was hidden from view, and nothing could 
seen but the tape the shelf. And rumor went about 
that Company the beautiful Waitin Data the 
QUEUED for was.the maiden ASCII data called; and 
from time time many devices came and tried force 
their way through the ledger, but was impossible for 
them so, for the forms held fast together like strong 
passwords, and the young devices were trapped them, 
and not being able on-hook they idled lamentable 
overload and circuits burned out from early life failure, and 


Coupled instruction Device (LCCD)* into that company, 
and read old PROC LIB Write Only Memory how 
there should CACHE Center stacking behind the 
ledger forms, and that there enchanted QUEUED 
named had NULLA BIDE for MEGA times 
slices and GIGA cycles and with her the REG/AL unit and 
the QUEUEn, and the whole foreground. The old PROC 
LIB had been used many devices that had sought pass 
the ledger forms, but had been caught and idled the 
forms, and died miserable budget cut for lack 
acceptable performance. Then said the young LCCD, 
“Nevertheless, fear not try; shall charge and 
break through and see the lovely Waitin Data.” The good 
old LIB and well planned memory map tried 
unbuffer him, but would not fasten their bypass 
words, regardless their chaining techniques. 

For now the MEGA time slices and GIGA cycles were 
end, and the NANO second had come when Waitin Data 
should activated. When the laser charge coupled device 
drew heatedly near the ledger forms, was 
changed into rack microforms brilliant and large 
fiched flowers, whose petals parted and scanned aside let 
him pass, and then closed behind him thick hedge. 
When reached the CACHE yard, saw the 
and bundled accumulator Regs lying asleep, and the 
drum the Pregions were sitting with their under 
their access arms lying idly the tracks. And when 
came indoors, the files the Vols were ASWAP, the 
controller the diskend had his micro IPLD strike the 
WCS, and the diskend mount had the pack serial her lap 


ISAM. Then mounted higher, and saw the 


hall the whole central processor lying wait, and above 
them all, their PSW’s slept the REG/AL unit and the 
And still went farther, and all was 
that could hear his own bufferings and last came 
the old translator, and went the winding search 
argument, and turned the index key the rusty lock and 
OP’d the INSTR the CRYPTIC MODULE ROM 
where Sleeping QUEUED lay. And when saw her 
linking lovely her wait, could not turn away his 
presently stacked and charged her (well did 
not laser her right away), added his error correction 


JAN-FEB 1976 


code her parity, and she awakened and her II’s, and 
linked very kindly him. And she rose, and they went 
forth double precision the power his Mantissa 
floated them past the exponents SLOTH, and together 
they awoke the REG/AL unit and the and the 
whole central process waked and linked each other 
with great pointers displacement, and the MACROS 
the compiler got and called themselves, the NOPs sprang 
and BALRD their trails, the regions the drum drew 
their heads from off the tracks, spun round and flew 
into the fields the files the Vols, the diskend files 
packed and scanned, and the directory, the JCL 
the SYS began Load, the whole place came life. 


Then the merger the laser charge coupled device and 
Maiden ASCII Data was held with all splendor, thus, she 
was became High Bride upper storage (HYBRID DATA 
the had originally listed), and the facilities 
managed together very happily ever after. 


CAST CHARACTERS (NO COLLATING SEQUENCE) 


unit REGistered Arithmetic Logic Unit 


QUEUE subset Value 

HYBRID DATA coupling ASCII EBCDIC 

Special Dock for Loading Instructions 

Freg Formal Register for hopping instructions 

IMS elf Leperchan Informal Mux Source 

HERSelf Leperchan HEuRistic Service 

Core L’d Core Load 

JOYVIAL Happy Bubble Memory Container 

LCCD Reminiscent CID Hero Type 

WOM Write only Memory Top Secret Device 
who serves less than full measure Hexadecimal 

Dinner, serves ILL ALL. 


the Computer 


Donald Piele 
Assistant Professor Mathematics 
University Wisconsin-Parkside 
Kenosha, Wisconsin 53140 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


Magic 


Magic squares? Humbug! never been able 
get excited over someone’s special arrangement 
numbers that total the same sum whether 
you add across row down column diag- 
onally. Benjamin Franklin when first confronted with 
them wrote, 


(English) mathematicians that they would not 
spend their time things that were merely dif- 
ficiles nugae incapable any useful applica- 


Franklin had confess, however, 


“In younger days, having once more leisure 
time (which still think might employed 
more usefully) had amused myself making 
these kind magic squares, and, length 
acquired such knack it, that could fill 
the cells any magic square reasonable size 
them, disposed such manner that the sum 
every row, horizontal, perpendicular diag- 
onal, should equal; but not being satisfied 
with these, which looked common and 
easy things, imposed myself more difficult 
tasks, and succeeded making other magic 
squares with variety properties, and much 
more 
Spite the fact that knew Benjamin Franklin 
had been statesman, scientist, politician, 
philosopher, and writer, was surprised discover 
that playing with magic squares was among his 
lengthy list avocations. Reading further, dis- 
covered that there are ways testing magic squares, 
besides the usual rows, columns, diagonals, that 
had never seen befare. For example, there are 
generalized diagonals, broken diagonals, corner 
_diagonals, horizontal zig-zags, vertical zig-zags, just 
name few. Next, found that algorithms existed 
for generating magic squares which looked relatively 
easy program. Maybe magic squares aren’t bad 
after all? Besides, the computer can programmed 
all the arithmetic and print out listing 
magical properties for each square. That did it. 


began with version the algo- 


This method fills square matrix with con- 
secutive integers from putting the ith 
integer the matrix position follows: 

Place the number any initial position, 
(i,j). The standard initial position the 
middle the top row, for odd. 

Place the successive integers vacant cells 

adjust the coordinates modulo (1,2,3, 
that moves back into the square. e.g. 
Forn (2,4) (2,1) and (0,3) (3,3). 

has already been filled, switch for one move 
the rule (C,D) and continue 


Originally from Letters and Papers Philosophi- 
cal Subjects Benjamin Franklin, LL.D., 
London, 1769. See [1] 89. 


See footnote pp. 89-90. 


“De Loubére was the envoy Louis XIV to- 


1687-1688, and there learnt his method.” 
See [3] 195. 


JAN-FEB 1976 


Loubére’s original method specified that 
placed the middle the top row, 
and. that (A,B,C,D) fixed (1,1,0,—1). This 
illustrated the first sample run the 
Loubere program. But what happens when you try 
different ‘starting positions and other step values 
(A,B,C,D)? Will any choice (A,B,C,D) generate 
square? Loubére used his algorithm only for 
odd order squares, what happens for even order 
squares? Given Loubére magic square, can 
you tell how was generated? The second sample 
run shows the magic square Backet 
Méziriac which was generated choosing (3,4) 
and (A,B,C,D) (1,1,2,0). Originally was con- 
structed different method (see 
17). Can you find other magic squares 
books magazines that can generated with the 
Loubére program? 

magic must least have the same sum for each 
row and column. the square filled with the con- 
secutive numbers through then each row and 
column must add 1)/2 (why?). All other 
ways finding numbers, symmetrically arranged, 
that add this sum, improves the magic square 
and makes more unique. For example, square 
may summed along generalized 
square there are generalized The 
Loubére program checks them all addition the 
rows and columns. The best you can do, with this 
program, find magical properties for 
square. 

Benjamin Franklin’s magic squares are entirely 
different and cannot generated the 
Loubére algorithm. The best ones are order 
and 16, known the Franklin Magic Squares. The 
largest one considered among the most ingenious 
ever developed. was impossible even for Franklin 
modest about it. 


you will readily allow the square 
the most magically magic any magic square 
ever made any 


The Franklin squares are characterized magical 
sums along broken diagonals that change direction 
halfway through the square illustrated Fig. 
They can constructed point four different 
directions; North, South, East and West. each 
direction square has broken diagonals, 
diagonals. Franklin Magic Squares have the maxi- 
mum number. Two other special arrangements that 
characterize the Franklin order squares 
lustrated Fig. 

not known how Franklin generated his 
squares, although very likely that they were 
geometrically motivated. Several investigations have 
found unique symmetries the way the numbers 
are arranged (see [1] and However, there 
exists analytical algorithm for réconstructing his 
squares called the method with binate 
transposition (see [1] pp. 100-106). sounds difficult 
but really not. fact the method can easily 
generalized construct much more than just the 
Franklin Magic Square. Since there difference 
the algorithm for squares order 16, will 
describe, for convenience, the order scheme. 


See footnote 93. 


Begin with the plan construction matrix (Fig. 
4). Number the rows and columns, usual, and let 
stand for the number the intersection row 
and column The magic square created 
follows: 

Choose permutation the row values, 

For the Franklin Square choose 7,8,1,2,3,4,5, 

Choose arrangement the column values 
C3, Ca, C3, Ca, such that For 
the Franklin Square choose 4,6,5,3,7,1,2,8. 
all equal 

Rearrange the numbers the plan con- 
struction matrix shown For ex- 
ample, using the row and column sequence 
given and for the Franklin Magic Square, 
the intersection row and column 


across the columns and values you move 
down the rows. This characterizes the Franklin 
squares and makes the computer algorithm relatively 
short (see program listing). 

The original Franklin Magic Square generated 
the first sample run and has total magical 
sums. has few other nice properties but 
are not tested for here (see [1] 96). What 
happens when you try other permutations? you 
ignore the restriction the 
the computer still generates square but some 
numbers will repeated. Try it! Each new row and 
column permutation will generate 
magic square. But, given Franklin type magic 
square, can you find row and column permutation 


that will generate it? 


probably never occurred Franklin that anyone 


would want to, much less able to, improve upon 
magically magic any magic 


square.” But magic square buffs are tenacious 


_lot and they should never underestimated. The 


most obvious weakness with Franklin’s square exists 


the main diagonals which are not magic. Many 


devotees the subject have tried vain remove 
this imperfection. 1945, Andrew Anema suc- 
ceeded constructing, for the first time, magic 
square that has the Franklin properties and 
addition magic along the main and 
generalized diagonals (see [2]). His method uses 
complementary pairs and takes three pages 
describe. turns out that you can generate Anema’s 
improved Franklin square, and many others like it, 
with the Franklin program described here (see sample 
run 2)..Can you generate other improved Franklin 
Magic Squares? There are lots them. 


The literature magic squares enormous. 
Probably other single recreational topic has had 
more written about it. With very limited experience, 
impression that many the special methods 
that have been devised construct magic squares 
are merely special cases more general algorithms. 
Students who are interested and have little knowl- 
edge BASIC able step into this 
area and, with the computer, perform little magic 
their own. 

Happy hunting! 


POSTSCRIPT 


not sure exactly how many magical properties 
there are Franklin Magic Square, but know 


ever dreamed. This became apparent one evening 
when discovered, perhaps rediscovered, 139 addi- 
tional magical arrangements already present and 

relatively easy exercise add three sub- 
routines the Franklin program check these ar- 
rangements for magical sums. Can you it? 
Franklin squares appear have magical properties 
almost everywhere you look. Can you find other 
arrangements that sum 260? 

Again, Happy Hunting! 


References 


Andrews, W.S. Magic Squares And Cubes. The 
Open Court Publishing Co. 1908. 
Anema, Andrew “Franklin Magic Squares.” 
Scripta Mathematica 1945. 
Ball, W.W. Rouse. Mathematical Recreations and 
Essays. The Macmillan Co. New York. 1947. 
Bragdon “The Franklin Magic Square.” 
Scripta Mathematica 4:158-60; 1936. 
Photograph: Benjamin Franklin 1706-1790 
Oval P.M. Alix, 1790, after paint- 
ing C.P.A. Van Loo, 1777- 
1785, the American. Philosophical 
Society, New York. 


Donald 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


Figure 6. Magic Octagons. Each octagon arrangement 


sums to 260 wherever it is placed on the 8 x 8 square. 


There are 25 Magic Octagons. 


Fig. arrangements the Franklin Magic Square that 
are magic. 
Center squares and four corner squares. 


The near-corner squares. 


Figure 7. Magic "2 x 4's". Each 2 x 4 rectangle 
stand'ng up or lying down sums to 260 wherever it 
is placed on the 8 x 8 square. There are 70 magic 
ROWS 4's", 
33 63 ea 85 Figure 8. Any 2 x 2 square sums to 130,When it Is 
R R, RC, RC, RAC, combined with the four corner squares the sum Is 
RAC. Rec Cc 260. There are 45 such arrangements but one has 
already been counted. 
Fig. Alternation with permutation scheme. 


JAN-FEB 1976 


Fig. Broken diagonals one direction for square. 


LOUBERE PROGRAM 


REM PROGRAM WRITTEN 7/15/75 670 
PRINT "THIS PROGRAM TESTS NXN SQUARES ODD ORDER FOR 690 GOTO 280 
PRINT MAGICAL PROPERTIES. CAN EITHER ENTER I=ABS(I-N) 
PRINT SQUARE LET THE COMPUTER GENERATE ONE FOR YOU 710 GOTO 290 
PRINT "USING THE ALGORITHM OF DE LA LOUBERE.* 720 J=ABS(J-N) 
PRINT "FOR THE COMPUTER SQUARE TYPE 1. FOR YOUR OWN TYPE 2.° dad cae 
PRINT MANY ROWS YOU WANT?* 750 GOTO 300 


PRINT “PICK AND ODD NUMBER BETWEEN 3 AND 11." 760 J=JS+N 
INPUT N * 770 GOTO 330 


DIM 780. REM TEST ROWS AND COLUMNS 


MAT A=ZERCN?NI 790 C=0 
MAT C=ZERCN+NI 800 FOR I=1 TON 


MAT B=ZERCNI 810 E=0 
IF X=2 THEN 1190 820 FOR J=1 TON 
K=0 830 


PRINT "PICK THE POSITION FOR (MIDDLE ROW 840 NEXT 
INPUT 850 E=S THEN 880 


PRINT “CHOOSE IS STANDARD)* 860 GOTO 890 
INPUT AvBoCoD 870 GOTO 890 


THE ALGORITHM FOR GENERATING THE SQUARE 880 
K=K41 890 NEXT I 
900 RETURN 
THEN 370 910 REM TEST GENERALIZED DIAGONALS 
920 
THEN 700 940 FOR J=0 N-1 
THEN 740 950 E=0 
THEN 700 960 
THEN 720 970 FOR I=1 TON 
THEN 760 
THEN 720 990 
1010 R=ABS(R-N) 
REM ALGORITHM 1020 GOTO 1060 


PRINT “HERE IS YOUR SQUARE OF ORDER‘N 1030 IF T >= 1 THEN 1080 
PRINT 1040 T=T+N 4 


PRINT 1050 GOTO 1080 
MAT PRINT 1060 

S=INT(NK(NEN41)/2+.5) 1070 GOTO 1030 

MAT C=A 1080 

GOSUB 790 1090 NEXT 

1100 E=S THEN 1130 

MAT 1110 F=S THEN 1150 

GOSUB 790 1120 GOTO 

PRINT 1140 GOTO 1110 

PRINT "HERE IS A LIST OF ITS MAGICAL PROPERTIES. 1150 D=D+t1 

PRINT 1160 NEXT 

PRINT AND 1170 RETURN 

GOSUB 920 1180 REM ENTER YOUR OWN SQUARE 
1190 PRINT “LIST THE MEMBERS EACH ROW SEPARATED 
PRINT DIAGONALS? 1200 FOR R=1 

PRINT 1210 PRINT 

PRINT MAGICAL 1220 MAT INPUT 

PRINT 1230 FOR I=1 

PRINT YOU WISH TRY AGAIN? TYPE FOR FOR 1240 

INPUT 1250 NEXT 

PRINT 1260 PRINT 

PRINT “GOODBYE. SEE YOU AT THE FRANKLIN FESTIVAL" 1280 PRINT 

PRINT “OCT. 1290 GOTO 370 

PRINT 1300 END 


SAMPLE RUN 


STOP 
THIS FROGRAM TESTS NXN SQUARES OF ODD ORDER FOR FOR THE COMPUTER SQUARE TYPE 1.. FOR YOUR OWN TYPE 2. 
THEIR MAGICAL PROPERTIES. YOU CAN EITHER ENTER YOUR 71 fs 
OWN SQUARE OR LET THE COMPUTER GENERATE ONE FOR YOU HOW MANY ROWS DO YOU WANT? 
USING THE ALGORITHM OF DE LA LOUBERE. PICK AND ODD \NUMBER BETWEEN 3 AND 11. 
FOR THE COMPUTER SQUARE TYPE 1. FOR YOUR OWN TYPE 2. ba] 
71 , PICK THE POSITION IrJ FOR 1. (MIDDLE OF ROW 1 IS STANDARD) 
HOW MANY ROWS DO YOU WANT? 
FICK AND ODD NUMBER BETWEEN 3 AND 11. CHOOSE ArBrCeD (1120-1 IS STANDARD) 
?3 
FICK THE POSITION IyJ FOR 1. (MIDDLE OF ROW 1 IS STANDARD) HERE IS YOUR SQUARE OF ORDER 5S 
CHOOSE ArBrCrD IS STANDARD) 
16 15 
HERE IS YOUR SQUARE OF ORDER 3 
2 


17 


HERE IS A LIST OF ITS MAGICAL PROPERTIES. HERE IS A LIST OF ITS MAGICAL PROPERTIES. 


ROWS AND COLUMNS! 6 ROWS AND COLUMNS? 10 
GENERALIZED DIAGONALS: 2 GENERALIZED DIAGONALS: 2 


TOTAL MAGICAL SUMS: 8 TOTAL MAGICAL SUMS: 12 


[PO YOU WISH TO TRY AGAIN? TYPE 1 FOR YESs 0 FOR NO. LO YOU WISH TO TRY AGAIN? TYPE 1 FOR YES» 0 FOR NO. 
?1 70 

GOODBYE. SEE YOU AT THE FRANKLIN FESTIVAL 

OCT. S TO 11 AT UW-PARKSIDE. 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


2 
110 
140 
150 
160 
170 
190 
210 
220 
230 
240 
250 
260 
270 

q 280 
290 : 
300 
310 
320 
330 
340 
350 
360 
380 
390 
4006 
410 
420 
430 
440 
450 
460 
470 
480 
490 
500 
510 
520 
530 
540 
550 
560 
570 
580 
590 
600 
610 
4 620 
630 
640 
650 PRI 
66 
8 1 6 7 25 13 1 19 
3 5 7 24 12 5 18 6 
4 9 2 11 4 = 10 23 
32 


FRANKLIN PROGRAM 


PRINT "THIS THE FRANKLIN MAGIC SQUARE 1040 MAT E=D 
WILL GENERATE AND TEST SQUARES. YoU 1050 GOSUB 1520 
PRINT ALSO ENTER AND TEST YOUR OWN 
PRINT "FOR THE COMPUTER GENERATED SQAURE 1100 MAT E=D 
PRINT YOUR OWN TYPE 1110 1660 
110 INPUT 1130 MAT 
120 A=2 THEN 1960 1140 GOSUB 
140 COMMAS. FOR THE FRANKLIN SQUARE CHOOSE* 1160 PRINT 
150 PRINT 1170 
160 1180 
1200 C=1 
190 PRINT SUPPLY PERMUTATION THE COLUMNS THROUGH 1210 PRINT 
200 PRINT THE FORM SUCH THAT 1220 PRINT CENTER FOUR SQUARES PLUS FOUR CORNER 
210 PRINT AND THE FRANKLIN MAGIC SQUARE CHOOSE* 
220 PRINT 1240 260 THEN 1270 
1250 PRINT THE FOUR CORNER DIAGONAL PAIRS.* 
240 MAT INPUT 
250 REM ALGORITHM GENERATE SQUARES 1270 PRINT 
270 FOR N=1 STEP 1290 PRINT MAGICAL 
280 FOR I=1 STEP 1300 PRINT 
PRINT YOU WANT TRY AGAIN? TYPE FOR THE COMPUTER 
340 DCI+JI=ACL SRI 1360 IF Z=2 THEN 1860 
1370 PRINT SEE YOU THE BENJAMIN FRANKLIN FESTIVAL" 
1390 PRINT 
1410 REM SUBROUTINES CHECK FOR MAGICAL SUMS 
400 FOR N=2 STEP 1420 
410 FOR I=1 STEP 1430 FOR I=1 
1490 
480 1500 NEXT 
490 NEXT 1510 RETURN 
1520 C=0 
530 PRINT 8X8 SQUARE IS* 1550 FOR I=1 
540 PRINT 
S60 REM END THE ALGORITHM 1580 THEN 1600 
600 NEXT 1620 260 THEN 1640 
640 PRINT THIS THE RENJAMIN FRANKLIN MAGIC SQUARE ORDER 1660 
650 PRINT 1670 FOR J=0 
660 REM TABULATION THE MAGICAL PROPERTIES 1680 E=0 
$70 PRINT LIST ITS MAGICAL 1690 FOR I=1 
680 PRINT 
690 MAT E=D 1710 T=9-I-J 
700 GOSUB 1420 1720 THEN 1740 
1420 1750 NEXT 
740 1760 260 THEN 1780 
760 1780 NEXT 
790 1810 DATA 239 249259269272 29+ 30731932 
810 M.<> 260 THEN 830 1830 DATA 
820 Mi=M1+1 1840 DATA 203240506 
830 PRINT "MAIN DIAGONALS: "M1 1950 REM ENTER YOUR OWN SQUARE 
840 G=0 1860 PRINT 
850 FOR J=1 1870 PRINT THE MEMBERS EACH ROW SEPARATED 
1910 MAT INPUT 
920 1940 NEXT 
1970 GOTO 650 
970 NEXT 
980 260 THEN 1000 


1020 NEXT J 


JAN-FEB 1976 


THIS IS THE FRANKLIN MAGIC SQUARE PROGRAM. 
IT WILL GENERATE AND TEST 8X8 SQUARES. YOU 
CAN ALSO ENTER AND TEST YOUR OWN 8X8 SQUARES, 


FOR THE COMPUTER GENERATED SQAURE TYPE 1, 
TO ENTER YOUR OWN TYPE 2. 


71 
FIRST PERMUTE THE ROWS 1 THROUGH 8 AND SEPARATE 


WITH COMMAS. FOR THE FRANKLIN SQUARE CHOOSE 


NEXT SUPPLY A PERMUTATION OF THE COLUMNS 1 THROUGH 8 
IN THE FORM SUCH THAT AtC=9» BtD=9» 
E+G=9» AND FtH=9.FOR THE FRANKLIN MAGIC SQUARE CHOOSE 


YOUR 8X8 SQUARE IS 


S52 61 4 13 20 29 36 4s 


14 3 62 Si 46 35 30 19 
Ss3 60 Ss 12 21 28 37 44 
11 6 5? 54 43 38 27 22 


15 


16 1 64 49 48 33 32 17 


THIS IS THE BENJAMIN FRANKLIN MAGIC SQUARE OF ORDER 8. 


HERE IS A LIST OF ITS MAGICAL PROPERTIES. 


ROWS AND COLUMNS: 16 
MAIN DIAGONALS: O 
GENERALIZED DIAGONALS? O 
BROKEN DIAGONALS: 32° 
SPECIAL CASES: 
CENTER FOUR SQUARES PLUS FOUR CORNER SQUARES. 


THE FOUR CORNER DIAGONAL PAIRS. 


TOTAL MAGICAL SUMS! 50 


DO YOU WANT TO TRY AGAIN? TYPE 1 FOR THE COMPUTER SQUARE, 
TYPE 2 TO ENTER YOUR OWN SQUARE» AND TYPE O TO STOP. 


Dear Editor: 


Thank you for publishing complaint letter the 
March-April 1975 issue and the letter withheld 
request” the September-October 1975 issue. 

May first advise colleague that any way 
control even nominally any the computer education pro- 
grams our city. Nor would wish to. 

naturally concerned with the uses and misuses 
calculators and computers used mathematics education. 
And there great misuse not only New York but all 


over the country! 
note define Computer Mathematics enrich- 


ment prograta where the computer used motivate stu- 
dents search for problem areas requiring computers for 
solution exploration.” When taught Computer Mathe- 
matics courses high schools introduced students 
topics number theory, statistics, numerical integration, 
series evaluation, linear algebra, matrix operation, and 
was hope that opening the eye students the 
vast “world mathematics” they would continue search, 
read, and learn—an open-ended approach. 

But see computers used evaluate simple formulas 
and “prove” the commutativity multiplication makes 
wish that teachers would take workshops extend their 
own horizons. 

see plotters attached programmable calculators used 
computer- and 


SAMPLE RUN 


FIRST PERMUTE THE ROWS 1 THROUGH 8 AND SEPARATE 
WITH COMMAS. FOR THE FRANKLIN SQUARE CHOOSE, 


3249695 


NEXT SUPPLY A PERMUTATION OF THE COLUMNS 1 THROUGH 8 
IN THE FORM SUCH THAT AtC=9» BtD=9» 


E+G=9» AND FtH=9.FOR THE FRANKLIN MAGIC SQUARE CHOOSE 
307019298 


YOUR 8X8 SQUARE IS 


1 16 57 56 17 32 41 40 
58 55 2 15 42 39—t:—«218 31 
8 9 64 49 24 25 48 33 
63 50 7 10 47 34 23 26 
Ss 12 61 52 21 28 45 36 
62 51 6 11 46 35 22 27 
4 13 60 53 20 29 44° 37 


59 54 3 14 43 38 19 30 


HERE IS A LIST OF ITS MAGICAL PROPERTIES. 


ROWS AND COLUMNS: 
MAIN DIAGONALS: 
GENERALIZED DIAGONALS: 
BROKEN 
SPECIAL CASES? 
CENTER FOUR SQUARES PLUS FOUR CORNER SQUARES. 
THE FOUR CORNER DIAGONAL PAIRS. 


TOTAL MAGICAL SUMS?. 66 


DO YOU WANT TO TRY AGAIN? TYPE 1 FOR THE COMPUTER “SQUARE » 
TYPE 2 TO ENTER YOUR OWN SQUARE,» AND TYPE 0 TO rere 


20 
GOODBYE. SEE YOU AT THE BENJAMIN FRANKLIN FESTIVAL 
AT UW-PARKSIDE, OCTOBER 5S TO 11. 


“Computer Mathematics” only one way which com- 
puters can used education. hope Creative Computing 
will serve introduce readers creative ways which not 
lead dead-end use computers students who can 
much more. 

Priorities should established educators who have 
the use computers for instructional purposes. For enrich- 
ment purposes recommend Mathematics” 
defined above. has other uses for other students varied 
subject areas. 

George Grossman 
Director Mathematics 
Board Education the City New York 


have run palindrome-finding program the notorious 
number 196 and wish warn others the negatiye results 
they can-expect it. 

After 79,098 iterations transpose-and-add, 
drome yet. The number had well over 31,000 digits. The run 
took about hours CDC 6600. 

have only run one test, but the digits 0-9 not appear 
uniformly distributed this process. let the pro- 
gram run 4,780 cycles and counted digits. extremes, 
there were 468,042 sixes and 498,231 nines, out 4,787,887 
total digits. These extremes seem too large categorized 
uniform. (Complementary digits have equal frequencies; 
e.g. there were 468,047 threes.) 

hope this will spare someone the expense running 
their computer all night. 

Lynn Yarbrough 
Lexington, Mass 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


55 58 7 23 26 39 42 

so 63 2 198 31 34 47 


Teaching With Programming Language 


Howard Peelle 
University Massachusetts 


Introduction 

The COMPUTER GLASS bold new approach 
teaching with Programming Language. 
approach, short and quickly comprehensible computer 
programs are given students for their direct viewing. 
Each program embodies concept, procedure, 
relationship and written simply and clearly possible. 
The inner workings such program are visible and, 
hence, become the basis for learning. 

This approach utilizes computer program more 
“glass than black box. The formal 
definition expressed the explicit terms program- 
ming language serves elucidate and reveal understand- 
ing. observing the structure program well its 


behavior, key concepts may become transparent the 
student. 


Related Research 


The glass box approach represents synthesis ideas 
put forth three other researchers. Seymour Papert 
has recommended that children study procedures actively 
using computer programming language (called LOGO) 
conceptual framework [1]. Kenneth Iverson IBM 
has persistently stressed simplicity and generality using 
APL expose fundamentals variety mathematical 
and scientific disciplines [2]. Paul Berry first 
advocated open use APL strategy for teaching 
what called the “functional approach” [3]. 


Characteristics the COMPUTER GLASS BOX Approach 

contrast conventional computer-assisted instruc- 
tion (CAI), the glass box approach allows the student 
significant contro/ over his own learning processes. This 
control achieved through the activity programming. 
Programs can entered independently the student via 
computer terminal, their use requires other pre- 
stored curriculum material most applications. 
Indeed, making the full power the computer accessible 
the learner 180° from the kind characterized 
programmed instruction, tutorial, drill-and-test 
sequences. 

This approach pedagogically suitable for range 
educational levels from elementary school children 
university graduate students. Especially for children who 
have been held powerless lock-step educational systems, 
use the computer this way opens new worlds 
learning active learning, learning with power. 

Using glass box computer programs, students can pro- 
ceed learn during several complementary activities. 
Specifically, they can: 

examine the definition (intuitively) 
analyze the program’s definition (logically) 

predict the outcomes the program 

execute the program computer 

scrutinize the behavior 

experiment with different applications the program 
modify expand the program 

generalize the program 

invent new related programs, and 

discuss implications with teachers and peers. 


N-FEB 1976 


oriented activities differ dramatically from frantic hand- 
waving about abstract concepts seen classrooms. 
The ideal glass box program also expository 
‘speaks’ its reader, explicating concepts and procedures 
concrete terms. Desirable characteristics such 
program are: 
Simplicity 
Comprehensibility 
Flexibility 
Generality 
Elegance 
Provocative Implications 
mean that single idea modest scope 
taught using brief program (about lines APL 
coding, taking less than minutes type). 
mean using clear, readable commands (usual- 
per line) with well-chosen mnemonic identifiers. 
“flexibility” mean program design which easily 
modified and which can used with other programs 
modular structuring (nested sub-programs with explicit 
resultants). mean developing mathemat- 
ical models which can extend class cases. 
mean choosing expressions which strike 
aesthetic chords. And, finally, glass box program 
when its implications suggest interesting 
follow-up discussions. 
the extent that these characteristics foster insight and 
learning, glass box program is, itself, pedagogical agent. 


Examples Glass Box Programs 

illustrate this approach, some.sample glass box APL 
programs are described below, with accompanying sugges- 
tions for extending their use teaching-learning settings. 


COMPUTER ASSISTED INSTRUCTION 

order emphasize the contrast with conventional 
uses computers for teaching, the first glass box program 
illustrated from the area computer-assisted instruction. 
Instead concealing the program usually designed 
control the behavior show him the 
mechanism itself that may see how works and 
ultimately the computer. 

Consider the APL program below which exposes the 
essence drill-and-practice multiplication skills. 
drill-and-practice, typically, student given series 
problems solve, his answers, and the answers 
are judged for correctness, etc. Indeed, the computer 
excellent vehicle for administering drill-and-practice, but 
programming language can also describe this process clearly. 

The DRILL program begins with NEWPROBLEM and 
prints ‘MULTIPLY’, simplified message telling the student 
what with the two numbers that will follow. The 
FIRST number integer randomly chosen between 


and 20, and the SECOND number likewise. 


35 


Programming Language (abbreviated APL) new multi- 
purpose computer programming language developed Kenneth 
Iverson IBM. Originally conceived unifying mathematical 
notation, APL has since been used successfully fields such 
business, scientific research and education. 


Again, this suggests analogy with human 


experiencing the most emotion-packed events first and then 
tapering off may more tolerable than the reverse. 

Other variations input also suggest interpretation 
terms human psychology. Sandwiching low-emotion 
event between two high-emotion events, say 727, can 
make the total sequence tolerable; contrast, the events 

The mathematics underlying this TEMPER model can 
exposed quickly and naturally. For example, after some 
experimentation with the program, one might wonder: 
How many can the program take before ‘blows its 
top?’ 

TEMPER 


sequence builds EMOTION higher and higher 
values, but never reaches 10. This process the 
well-known geometric series 1/2 1/4 1/8 1/16 
the sum which converges Exploring this 
child may gain some insight into the nature infinite series 
active and interesting (at least less abstract) setting. 

Some simple modifications the TEMPER program 
students might make are to: (a) change the threshold, e.g. 
from for higher tolerance, ?25 random 
number) for unpredictable behavior; (b) rnodify the model, 
e.g. from EMOTION express 
stronger (c) adapt the program for use 
others, e.g. inserting conversational statements such 
‘ENTER NUMBERS FROM even ‘CAUTION! 
THIS PROGRAM MAY BECOME and 
(d) make the program dynamic, e.g. automatically resetting 
EMOTION after emotional catharthis. 

Possible extensions TEMPER include: (a) writing 
related such version with multiple emotional 
dimensions like ANGER, FEAR, and LOVE, and (b) writ- 
ing companion programs, such two pro- 
grams which interact with each other that one’s output 
the input. 


CYBERNETICS 
the area cybernetics, students can introduced 
some sophisticated using simple computer pro- 
grams. Scene analysis, for example, important part 
robotics research. designing vision machines, 
important know what types scenes can 
tionally distinguished. Consider the two scenes below: 


SCENES 


* 


* 
* * 


One scene the other not connected. 
Note that the same line segments comprise the two scenes, 
but that they are different positions. 

Suppose one these two SCENES 
random. Call MYSTERY. 


MYSTERY + PICK SCENES 


Further suppose that you are permitted PEEK small 
portions the MYSTERY scene called 
but you are not told where the microscenes came from. For 
example, 

PEEK MYSTERY 


PEEKing MYSTERY like 
using flashlight illum- 
inate small unidentifiable 
places much larger un- 
known scene. 


PEEK MYSTERY 


PEEK HYSTERY 


* 


After period probing, the question arises: Can you 
determine which scene that you are looking (The 
answer postponed that the reader may ponder this 
question.) 

The APL programs which facilitate exploration this 
question scene analysis are indeed: 


This program will PICK one 
SCENES random for the result 
called MYSTERY. 
V MYSTERY + PICK SCENES 
(1) MYSTERY + SCENES(?2;;1] 
v 
This program will PEEK some 
two-dimensional SCENE and produce 
result called MICROSCENE. 


Vv MICROSCENE + PEEK SCENE 


The enterprising student might elect automate the 
production MICROSCENEs. 


AUTOPEEK Vv AUTOPEEK 


PEEK MYSTERY 


Soon should become clear that these two SCENES 
cannot distinguished the basis random microscenes 


their book Perceptrons, MIT Press, 1970. 
Perceptrons are theoretical machines which can trained 
detect features scene computations layered network 
logical elements. 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


* 
O: O: 
O: O: = 
5 
O: O: 
5 . 
QO: 
5 
(1) 
wee C2] 
(3) 
eee C4) 
* v 
q 
* 
* 


DRILL 
(7] TRY 


The student may ENTER his ANSWER which then 
judged for correctness the program. the ANSWER 
equals the FIRST number times the SECOND number, 
NEWPROBLEM given; otherwise (if ANSWER wrong) 
‘NOPE. TRY AGAIN.’ printed, and the student may 
ENTER his answer again. 

NOTE: sub-program used facilitate the reading 
branching commands. Its definition is: 


BRANCH LINE CONDITION 
(1) BRANCH + CONDITION/LINE 


v 
syntax (line number) (condition) 

means that the condition true (evaluates 1), 
the program branches the line number (or line label) 
given; the condition false (evaluates 0), the program 
branches the next line. 

order use the DRILL program, its name typed. 
The following sample: 


DRILL MULTIPLY 
MULTIPLY 8 
19 12 
2 O: 
O: 96 
38 MULTIPLY 
MULTIPLY 6 
16 2 
18 O: 
O: 12 
248 MULTIPLY 
NOPE. TRY AGAIN. 14 
288 QO: 


Students notice immediately that this program has 
flaw. does not stop! Scrutinizing the definition 
reveals that after getting multiplication problem correct, 
one always gets new problem infinitum. Also, after 
getting problem wrong, the student must answer that 
same problem again another potentially endless loop. The 
first task, then, might build option 
stop the program will. 

DRILL is, course, only prototype program. With 
other modifications one’s choosing, DRILL may become 
considerably more sophisticated. Possible 
clude: (a) displaying pictorial feedback like “smiley 
instead ‘NOPE. TRY (b) presenting pre- 
specified total number problems, (c) limiting the number 
allowable mistakes individual problems (or all 
problems), (d) generalizing the multiplicands create 
more flexible range problems (including negative num- 
bers, decimals, etc.), (e) gathering performance data, (f) 


using performance criteria make diagnoses, (g) auto- 


JAN-FEB 1976 


matically adapting level difficulty based diagnoses, 
(h) adding personalized instructions, and (i) building 
timing components, jump-ahead options and hints. 


PSYCHOLOGY 


With computer programs suitable for viewing, students 
may learn some fundamentals psychology. studying 
behavior, for example, consider the following APL pro- 
reaction. 


TEMPER 

Yo, % 

(5) MAD: ns 


The program begins with zero EMOTION and then 
encounters series numbers, representing ‘events’ the 
life the program. low number low 
significance; whereas high numbers are highly emotion- 
producing. 

Each time number entered, the program generates 
NEW EMOTION based simple mathematical model: 
EMOTION becomes the number just entered plus one half 
the previous EMOTION. the course human events, 
this might akin the ameliorating effect time 
emotional burdens, i.e. ‘sleeping your 

This process continues until test condition the 
for mad behavior exceeded. The program 
goes MAD if. EMOTION ever becomes greater than 10. 
the programmed vernacular.) 

use the program, the child types its name (TEMPER) 
and then enters sequence numbers. For example: 


TEMPER 


8 
This sequence produced MAD behavior. 


But, suppose one tries entering the same numbers 
different order: 


TEMPER 
O: 


QO: 
QO: 


Here, the program does not display MAD: 


whereas the previous sequence clearly was not 
tolerable! 


This program similar one written simplified 
FORTRAN John Loehlin Computer Models Personality, 
Random House, NY, 1968. 


QO: 
4 
| O: 
6 
O: 
6 
37 


alone. (Of course, one could trace sequentially through 
scene, its could 
determined easily.) 

Possible extensions this excursion into scene analysis 
include studying perceptrons and related questions about 
“spatially local 


COMPUTER ART 
The world computer art can opened students 
through few simple APL programs. Beginning with foray 
into automated design, they can proceed engage matters 
aesthetic judgement and artistic technique. 
For example, consider the following DESIGN program. 
Y PICTURE + SIZE DESIGN COLORS 
v 
DESIGN uses some COLORS (symbols the keyboard) 
and some SIZE (two dimensions matrix) produce 
PICTURE. 
simple program like DESIGN goes long way with 
children. They seem never tire it, for can produce 
quite variety designs: 


HOWMANY + pCOLORS 


PICTURE + COLORSL?SIZEpHOWMANY 


10 20 DESIGN '0 0 0 e 
00 
00 0000¢ 00 , 10 20 ‘Coe *OC' 
O 
ee 0000 00 
© 0 00 .0 0 
0 00 ° #00000 
° 
Oe 
10 20 DESIGN ‘//sev\\' Oelle 
#0000 
O0*0000 


~~ 


While these may have dubious 
aesthetic appeal, one can imagine instead these typed 
symbols randomly generated swatches color, perhaps 
displayed televsion-like screen. 

Extensions this approach computer art inciude: 
(a) automating DESIGN, (b) weighting the selection 
COLORS, (c) asking for human judgement (Do you like 
not?) order adjust weights COLORS other 
aesthetic factors, and (c) piecing together several com- 
puter-generated into montage. 

Another approach computer art involves viewing 
programs which simulate artistic technique. For example, 
consider the program MONDRIAN below (named after the 
Dutch abstract painter). 


MONDRIAN 
DAB: COLOR + 
(3) SIzeE+35f 76 10 


38 


C4] PICK: PLACE + 730 50 - SIZE 

{5] OVERLAP + +/+/CANVAS{ PLACE(1] 
(6) +PICK IF OVERLAP>2 

C7]. CANVAS( + COLOR 

(8) +DAB IF (PERCENT * * ON CANVAS) > 67 

(9) CANVAS 


v 


MONDRIAN begins with blank canvas (arbitrarily set 
50). Then the program chooses random COLOR, 
SIZE and PLACE DAB. 

OVERLAP measures the extent overlap with DABs 
already the CANVAS. 

OVERLAP greater than then will PICK 
another PLACE. (This tantamount finding relatively 
open space the CANVAS). 

however, OVERLAP not too large, the COLOR 
put the CANVAS the PLACE and the SIZE 
selected. 

The program continues DAB the PERCENT 
blank spaces the CANVAS greater than 67. other 
words, soon 1/3 filled up, CANVAS displayed. 


Note: MONDRIAN uses two simple sub-programs (most- 
for readability). They are PERCENT and ON: 


VY HUNDREDTHS + PERCENT WN 


(1) HUNDREDTHS + 10.5 + 100*N 


Vv DENSITY + SYMBOL ON PICTURE 


v 


DENSITY + (+/+/SYMBOL=PICTURE) (*/pPICTURE) 


Now, MONDRIAN work: 


MONDRIAN 
ogou0 
0000000000 00000 
e000000000 
guo000 
0000000 oog00000 
g000000 
arene oo000000U0 oo0000000 
#eeeeQ0000 


e000000000 
e000000000 
e000000000 


Possible extensions this kind program include: 
(a) simulating and combining additional artistic techniques 
(those that can operationalized), (b) computing abstract 
measures difference between random pro- 
duced the computer, (c) converging minimal differ- 
ences from previously specified painting, and 
(d) developing model for aesthetic judgment perhaps 
one which 

Conclusion 

These are but few APL programs designed 
stimulate students think about selected concepts. 
Each the sample programs shown here can used 
and, course, can extended myriad directions. 
Other topics well-suited for this pedagogical approach 
include some drawn from linguistics, statistics, mathe- 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


v 
| 
| ** | w 
eenen 
=« 
a a “A 
¥ a . 


Creative Chess 


Walter Koetke 
Lexington High School, Mass. 


The game chess was introduced Europe 

near the middle the thirteenth century. one 
might expect game with over 197,000 ways 
making the first four moves with over 71,000 result- 
ing positions, many people have always been fasci- 
nated with the game but very few have mastered 
it. This article not, however, about the game 
chess but rather about few the recreations 
has spawned. 
According W.W. Ball (1), one the oldest 
known chess related recreations: was proposed 
the early 1500’s. The problem consisted 
board with two white knights (W) and two black 
knights (B) positioned shown. 


The object move the pieces that the 


occupied the white knights are occupied the 
black knights and vice versa.. 

When one learning play chess, some type 
point value for each piece usually assumed. 
For example, was taught value queen 10, 
castle and bishop and knight each 
You may have noticed that different introductory 
texts are likely suggest different point values. 
can this be? How are these point values as- 
signed? the relative point values are valid, then 
why the experts disagree? 

Suppose choose evaluate piece com- 
puting its “checking can define the 
checking power piece the probability that 
the piece will have the king check the piece 
and the opposing king are placed random 
empty board. 


Computer Glass Box continued 


matics, engineering, ecology, and physical sciences. 

The challenge educators, then, identify such 
topics suitable for embodiment glass box programs, 
search out the kernel concepts taught, and lead 
students better understandings those concepts using 
programming 

References 

Memo No. Oct. 1971. 

[2] Iverson, “APL Tech. Report 
No. 320-3010, Jan. 1972. 

[3] Berry, et. “APL and Insight: The Use Programs 
Represent Concepts IBM Tech. Report 
No. 320-3020, March 1973. 


JAN-FEB 1976 


compute the checking power castle, the 
castle placed empty board leaving empty 
squares. these squares, are controlled 
the castle. king placed random the board 
would, therefore, have probability 14/63=2/9 
being check. Thus the checking power 
castle 2/9. 


bit more tedious. bishop placed any the 
squares the outer ring the board commands 
the remaining squares. However, the bishop 
placed any the squares the ring 
squares adjacent the border ring, then com- 
mands the remaining squares. Similarly, 
placed one the squares the next inner 
ring the bishop commands those remaining, 
and placed one the center squares the 
bishop commands those remaining. Thus the 
checking power bishop is: 

Using similar logic, the checking power 
knight can computed 1/12 and the checking 
power queen 13/36. Converting the com- 
puted checking power integers yields: 


Piece Checking Power Point Value 
Queen 13/36 

Castle 2/9 

Bishop 5/36 

Knight 1/12 


What these relative point values suggest? 
Perhaps that own assumed values 10, 
and aren’t very good. Perhaps that our definition 
“checking should improved. Perhaps 
that the chess masters are supplying relative point 
values from their experience rather than re- 
producible computation. 

Try computing some relative point values your 
own. Can you define “checking power” you can 
produce the relative point values you’ve assumed? 
One alternate definition checking power begins 
ours did, but then excludes these squares from 
the pieces control from which the king could take 
the piece. For example, consider the computing 
power castle using this alternate definition. 
the castle placed any one the corners, 
controls remaining squares. However, 
the king was placed either the squares 
adjacent the castle could take the castle. Thus 
the castle really only controls the remain- 
ing squares. the castle placed any the 
other outside squares again appears control 
squares, but these, those adjacent the 
rook, must excluded because the king could 
take the rook from these positions. Similarly, the 


castle placed any the remaining squares 
appears control squares which must 
excluded. Thus the revised computation power 
castle 

and forth. The remaining computations and fur- 
ther modifications the definition checking 
power are left you. 

article discussing chess related recreations 
would incomplete without considering some 
the many problems, particularly since they 
offer interesting programming challenges 
There are many different types tour questions— 
the fewest number moves accomplish task, 
covering all squares once and only once, the mini- 
mum distance traveled, Here consider just 
three different questions. 

First, can you determine path traveled king 
such that each square occupied once and only 
once? No, it’s not that easy. There’s one additional 
catch. the king moves, number each square 
consecutively starting with When finished, 
the squares will each contain one the integers 
thru 64. What’s the catch? The resulting board 
with numbered squares must 8X8 magic 
square. solution will published future 


second problem, try moving the castle 
from one corner the board the diagonally op- 
posite corner, again passing through each square 
once and only once. This one isn’t quite easy 
quick reading suggests, but you should able 

Finally, consider the standard “Knight’s Tour” 
problem that considered many articles 
recreational chess. knight must cover the entire 
board occupying each square once and only once. 
Don’t, however attack this one with knight and 
chessboard—try something different. Write prob- 
lem that will find solution for you. Kemeny (2) 
offers BASIC program that attempts find solu- 
tion making random moves. The sample 
runs published doesn’t include complete 
solution, fact not one runs exceeded 
squares before moves were possible. Perhaps 
surprisingly, however, the runs the tour 
did pass thru over half the squares before ter- 
minating. Actually, when knight’s tour attempted 
using only random moves, long tours are quite 
common but complete tour very unlikely indeed. 
How then can program help? adding little 
bit more the move selection than simply the 
choosing random number. When selecting 


move, add one additional criteria. Always move 


square from which the knight will command the 
fewest squares that have not been occupied. Fewest 
not misprint, even does contradict your 
intuition. several squares fit this criteria equally 
well, then select one them random. This addi- 
tional criteria reasonably implemented 
program, and although doesn’t guarantee 
successful tour, you are apt surprised the 
results! 


Bibliography 


Ball, W.W. Rouse, Mathematical Recreations and 
Essays, Macmillan and Co., London 1940 

Kemeny, J.G. and Kurtz, T.E., BASK Program- 
ming Second Edition, John Wiley and Sons, New 
York, 1971 


Big Surprise From 
Smail Computers 
Chess Matches 


Good things come small packages—especially 
when computers compete chess matches. two 
matches here and abroad, 
formed surprisingly well against giant competitors. 

David actually conquered Goliath intramural 
chess match Columbia University when small 
Data General Supernova—about the size atta- 
che case—checkmated IBM System 360/91—one 


the largest the just moves. 


The Supernova, owned Columbia’s Department 
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, had 
memory capacity 32,768 bytes; the IBM sys- 
tem, part the university’s computer center, had 
capacity over million bytes. 

The Supernova’s chess program was written 
Professor Monroe Newborn the Electrical Engi- 
neering and Computer Science Department and 
student George written assembly 
language and uses technique that determines the 
best move searching between four and eight 
moves ahead, selectively analyzing about 1,000 
terminal positions. move determined about 
one minute—well within chess tournament rules. 

The game lasted more than minutes, but the 
Supernova gained decided advantage the sixth 
move: the System 360/91, playing white, blundered, 
and traded knight for pawn. One the program 
authors noted that the computer saw the correct 
move (bishop takes bishop) but didn’t realize that 
exchanging bishops would save the knight. Once the 
big computer decided could not save the knight, 

“Having exclusive use the smaller computer, 
along with running the program on-line, helps off- 
set the greater speed and capacity the larger 
machines,” Professor Newborn said. 

another surprising match, Computer Auto- 
mation Naked Mini computer using only 16,000 
words 16-bit memory came 12th stiff com- 
petition the World Computer Chess Champion- 
ships held Stockholm, Sweden. 

expert chess; fact, I’m just 
average amateur, but love play with computers. 
Even so, was surprised, indeed,” said Bob Prisen, 
Interscan Data Systems, Ltd., United Kingdom, who 
programmed the Naked Mini. spent approximately 
300 hours eight-month period and used BASIC 
assembler language. 

The first-place winner, contrast, was large- 
scale English-built ICL 4/70 computer entered the 
Moscow Institute Control Science. The machine 
and its programming had been prepared team 
fulltime staffers for more than two years. The 
computer used program called KAISSA. 

During the Swedish match, the Naked Mini stayed 
England. Communications between Prisen and the 
computer were established using international tele- 
phone lines and acoustic coupler with Teletype 
and on-line visual display unit. 

Prisen said hopes that European British 
Chess Computer Championship can arranged 
the future. “If occurs, I’m confident the Naked Mini 
computer will greatly improve its position the 
Chess Computer League with bit more core mem- 
ory and programming effort,” said. 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


4 
2 * 
40 


About Computing 


Geoffrey Chase, OSB 
Portsmouth Abbey School, 


There’s famous “theorem” that runs something 
like this: 

Any non-trivial program has least one “bug”. 

(Corollary) Any program that works trivial. 

Computing—i.e., giving set instructions 
(“program”) machine telling what and 
what paths take this rather than that happens, 
and when stop—is different from what most 
people seem expect. begin with, doesn’t 
necessarily have anything much with numbers, 
arithmetic, algebra, though students these 
subjects often use computers and usually (by 
means always) find programming easier than 
people who haven’t much math background. 

Another odd feature that not quite 
much matter “right” “wrong” answers 
one might think. Almost one gets his program 
the first time runs it, unless it’s copied off 
book does nothing you couldn’t better with- 
out the machine. And those who get the 
“right program that finally works— 
some will write programs that are unnecessarily 
slow, use too much the memory, 
and stretch accumulation small errors into 
large ones [computers don’t make mistakes but they 
often generate error—figure that one out!]. Some- 
one else may write program that lean, taut, 
elegant, fast and accurate. Both have come with 
the “right answer”, but the second program ob- 


viously than the first. Often also 
program. 


The hard part computing keeping your head 
clear. The easy part what looks hard, programming 
some sort language. 


expected little 
more documentation. 


JAN-FEB 1976 


Some more “theorems”, stated without proof: 

Any fool can write program one else can 
understand. takes intelligence write one that 
clear and seems easy. 

Our #3. fool will find, six weeks later, that 
even can’t figure out. 

Write programs someone else can read them. 
Use few comments; make the order the pro- 
gram adhere near can the order 
which one thinks about the problem being solved. 

Computers are dynamic—they “move” things. 
Many familiar expressions math and elsewhere 
are static, reflecting unchanging truth but not 
giving much hint how find figure. your 
job most instances find some sort re- 
peated process (they call computers “processors” 
sometimes) which will get you what you want 
finite number “moves” steps. 

Such process called “algorithm”. You 
often don’t know, the way, how meny moves 
steps will required; merely that there will 
only finite number them. 

It’s not all rare write “infinite program” 
mistake. This can hang the processor and the 
programs other users, who will tempted per- 
haps hanging another sort 

(let’s say) 1.2; how find the value 
“yr 

“Static” method: multiply times times 
times and then ... all the way down the line. 
lot work. 

“Dynamic method”: let Now, for “K” 
equal then then the following: 

Multiply times (which 1.2) and add the 
reaches this the so-called “constant 
term”, our problem. Let this new 
value and throw away the old value 
computer talk, 

Y*X C(K), where “*” means “times” 

and C(3), C(2), C(1), are the coefficients 

(from left right) our equation. Note that 

C(K) means subscript “times 

and that the sign really means “is replaced 

by” rather than “is identical to”. 

Your last the answer. Believe not, 
this far the easier way our problem. 

This repeated application simple idea the 
key 

woman’s work never done, and neither 
the 

You will nearly always find yourself rewriting 
programs. might work, but you would like another 
feature added; or, blows the user does 
something stupid let’s check for stupidity his 
part; or, can combined with two three 
other short programs make the Pan-galactic Inter- 
planetary Super Solver that cures all ailments. 

It’s like fine furniture: sanding, resanding, finish- 
ing, refinishing, until you really like the looks it. 

When doubt, guess. You don’t know what 
will happen Well, try it. Smart guess-work 


looked like sure thing; David would 
quickly polish off his opponents and would 
able have early dinner—most likely be- 
fore midnight! The slugfests between programs 
determine national champion usuaily begin 
p.m. the ACM Annual Conferences and continue 
until almost dawn—certainly well past midnight— 
and for those participating, this means late gour- 
met meal nearby twenty-four hour diner over 
which the evening’s activities are rehashed. But 
tonight, rather than battling each other, the twelve 
programs were scheduled take David Levy, 
British International Chess Master, the first simul- 
taneous chess exhibition history which 
Master could not count his opponents cringing 
respect. Dinner was not too far off. 

The scene was second floor conference room 
the Radisson Hotel downtown Minneapolis; 
the date was October 19, 1975. The audience 
several hundred included both chess experts and 
computer professionals. stage were the authors 
along with teletypes and telephones connecting 
remote computers. role was that organizer, 
along with Ben Mittman Northwestern Univer- 
sity, and participant. Data General had been good 
enough provide with Nova for the event 


much more important (even) pure mathematics, 
say nothing more practical things, than people 
realize. Every theorem was once merely hunch. 
almost more important find something prove! 

Aesthetics (elegance, style) count for lot, 
and are lot more practical than “gimmicks” 
the long run. 

Computer books and write-ups (this 
cluded) are hard read first, and full words 
that nobody bothers explain. 

Suggestion: you have trouble this score, 
plow ahead and keep reading, 
whether you know what the author saying. later 
page may very well explain earlier one. Then 
back what bothered you; still bothers you, 
make note and lay the book down. 

Another day may come clear; somebody 
may able answer your questions. 

The writer first met computers when was 40. 
The result: near-despair until the above technique 
was used; then things began come clear. It’s like 
learning foreign language; speak and hear much 
you can, even half obscure. 

10.The ingenious chaps who invent computer lan- 
guages (like BASIC, which will probably what 
you Start with) put error “traps” catch certain 
obvious blunders. But general, alas, 

The machine can and will what you ask 
do, matter how stupid wise your 
orders may be. doesn’t know the difference. 

can’t possibly tell you what you 
should asking do. fact and fiction, 
value and meaning, knows nothing. 
(garbage in, garbage out) old IBM motto! 

Geod luck your adventure! 


vs. Goliaths 


Monty Newborn 


and served the only “live” and visible entrant, 
its lights twinkling moves for program OS- 
STRICH were calculated. David has been serving 
director the ACM Tournaments since 1971 and 
likely come into several thousand dollars 1978 
when the computer community produce 
program that can defeat him match. accep- 
ted wager 1968 this effect from distin- 
guished group computer scientists. This simul- 
taneous exhibition would certainly set straight the 
supporters the metal monsters! 

And the evening began. became clear that 
David intended take the computers “out 
book” soon possible and, general, play 
somewhat closed positional games. The computers 
played slowly, taking about minutes per move, 
while David bounced from one board another, 
only seeming concerned over his game versus 
CHESS 4.4 running CDC CYBER 175. OSTRICH 
was holding ground but definitely having the worse 
it. One one David’s opponents met defeat, 
marked visibly the disconnected telephone and 
the posting the results large display boards 
the room. But the games were lasting longer 
than expected. David must playing very safe 
was guess; doesn’t want lose any games 
draw any either. The pressure against OSTRICH 
continued grow with David building small 
gains. But was now nearing p.m. and there 
were still about six programs alive! became com- 
pletely immersed game this point, losing 
track what was happening the other games. 
David seemed only few moves from crush- 
ing OSTRICH and was glad see OSTRICH had 
made run least. But then, much 
surprise, David made weak 25th move giving OS- 
TRICH some chance for equalizing the game and 
even chance gain the lead. OSTRICH saw 
error and made the correct reply, and David 
was trouble—but not enough. David, playing 
slight material disadvantage, gradually recaptured 
the lead and defeated OSTRICH move 50. Thus, 
about p.m. OSTRICH joined the ranks 
about other programs that had gone down de- 
feat. could now relax and watch David finish off 
his other opponents. 

But didn’t happen that way. David found him- 
self behind two games and fought survive un- 
til well past midnight when his opponents agreed 
draws. CHESS 4.4, the program David Slate 
and Larry Atkin Northwestern University, and 
TREEFROG, the work Ron Hansen, Russell Crook, 
and Gary Calnek the University Waterloo, 
both were ahead but unable develop strategic 
plan leading resignation their mortal 
opponent. 

once again a.m. went the local 
diner rehash the day’s events and speculate 
how numbered days are. head-to-head 
match, ten years may still safe, but David— 
beware! 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


OCCURENCES THRU MODULATED 
AND COLORED EXAMPLE: 
PURPOSE ONE GAME COVLD 


PRE-PROGRAMMED PLAYERS 
EXPERIENCE AGRESSION, FEAR, 


SEEMINGLY KANDOM SEQUENCES. WHITE 


CHECKMATE, COMPUTER 
PROGRAMMED DETO- 


Brief Guide the Theory Relativity 


(in easy-to-understand language) 


Peter Payack 


When the theory relativity was first propagated 
Albert Einstein was said that only twelve men 
could understand it. Unfortunately that was years ago, 
and they are probably all dead now. cannot look 
them for any help, but must rely our own resources. 

television commercial can’t remember which) use the 
metaphor train when describing the mechanics 
relativity. The Long Island Railroad the perfect example. 


& 


One the paradoxes relativity that time. Picture 
yourself Long Island Railroad commuter train rush 
hour. There clock the station wall, and further 
suppose that works. Remember vivid imagination 
important. The clock the wall says 5:00 when the train 
pulls out the speed light. After one second the train 
has traveled 186,000 miles, past Hempstead anyway. 
the people the train will seem one second 


passed, and yet they look back the clock the station 
wall, still says 5:00. Time the train has come 
stop! first glance may seem that are dealing with 
purely logical contradiction. But certainly this not for 
anyone who has ever ridden the Long Island Railroad, 
where time always seems stopped. 

This conclusively proves that there universal time, 
and even though might seem some New Yorkers, 
the universe does not run Eastern Standard Time. 


Another paradox are confronted with the length 
contradiction. Some say that John Dillinger had the longest 
one inches, and that the proof the Smithsonian. 


WANTED 


JOHN HERBER 


On June 23, 1934, BOMPR S. CULAIINGS, Attorney General of the United States, under the 
m@uthority vested in him by en act of Congress approved June 6, 1934, offered « reward of 


$10,000.00 


for the capture of John Herbert Dillinger or a reward of 
5,000.00 
for information leading to the arrest of John Herbert Dillinger.- 

Personally, doubt this claim, Nevertheless, when 
continue our train ride the speed light, hopefully 
avoiding all delays, would find some amazing changes 
appearances pass through stations along the way. 
People the stations will think that the train has become 
shorter while the train, will appear that the 
platforms are thinner and taller. This not unusual right 
after cocktails. The only person things won’t seem distorted 
John Dillinger, and that’s because he’s dead. dead 
person, length, width and even relativity don’t matter 
much. 

manner, then, the theory 
relativity provides with most dizzying picture the 
technology has not increased rapidly theory, and 
brakes were provided for stopping train 186,000 miles 
per second. 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


: aa 


How does one solve problem? There 
are direct and indirect approaches. Frequently, the 
“scientific method” advocated the generalized 
approach solving all kinds problems. Stated 
briefly, the scientific method consists the fol- 
lowing steps: 

State the problem. Break down into man- 

ageable pieces, necessary. 

Collect facts and data. 

Using the data, try solution. Does meet 

the objectives, i.e., does solve the problem? 
so, the best solution? not, back 
Step 

But how get the solution from the data? 
Several possibilities exist: 

Deduction. Reaching conclusion from some- 

thing already known. 

Inference. Reaching conclusion from facts 

and evidence. 

Trial and Error. Keeping it, avoiding past 

mistakes until you get right. 

Experimentation. Trying something new and 

observing the achieve goal. 

Intuition. Direct perception the truth that 

bypasses analysis. 

the puzzles and problems which follow, 
probably have use all five the above methods 
one time another. Sometimes calculator 
computer will come handy—but it’s you 
decide when you need outside aids. And al- 
though you can write computer program solve 
some the problems, you have decide whether 
the programming effort “worth it,” i.e., would 
take less total time solve pencil, paper, 
and human brain than with the assist machine. 

assembled this collection and prob- 
lems from about sources which are cited the 
end, plus pile original puzzles which I’ve been 
writing and accumulating dog-eared folder for 
years. you like this kind stuff, let know, 
and we’ll run more. 


JAN-FEB 1976 


David 


45 


BIG pages 
containing 
115 PUZZLES 


for computers, 
calculators, 
and humans! 


Mathematical Puzzles and Pastimes, Philip Haber 
(Ed.); The Peter Pauper Press, Mt. Vernon, NY; 
1957. $1.95. 


Pencil Puzzles Word Games, 5th Edition, Dell 
Publishing, New York; 1975. 35c. 

The Math Entertainer, Philip Emerson 
Books, Buchanan, New York; 1959. $5.95. 

150 Puzzles Crypt Arithmetic, Maxey Brooke, 
Dover Publications, New York; 1963. $1.25. (Avail- 
able thru Creative Computing Library.) 

101 Puzzles Thought and Logic, Wylie, Jr., 
Dover Publications, New York; 1957. $1.35. 

Johnson, Dover Publications, New York; 1960. $3.50. 
Pillow Problems and Tangled Tale, Lewis Carroll, 
Dover Publications, New York; 1958. $1.50. 

Fun With Mathematics, Jerome Meyer, World 
Publishing Co., Cleveland; 1952. 

Mathematical Puzzles for Beginners Enthusiasts, 
Geoffrey Mott-Smith, Dover Publications, New York; 
1954. $1.75. 

Computer Programming Problems, NCC Publications, 
U.K.; 1975. $0.75. 

Gamesmag (Vol. No. 1), Center for Open Learn- 
ing, Box 9434, Berkeley, CA; 1975. $0.75. 

Games Puzzles, Tottenham Court Road, London 
4XF, England. One-year subscription USA 
$11.40. (One the very best games 
The Mathematical Puzzles Sam Lloyd, Vol. ii, 
Martin Gardner (Ed.), Dover Publications, New York. 
The Floodgate Scandal and Other 
Morris. (Preprint forthcoming book.) 

Computer Problem Solving, Watkins, John 
Wiley (Australasia); 1975. 


SPEED TRAP 


One day motorcycle cop was watch- 
ing the street for speeders, spied. one 


coming down breakneck speed about 


mile away. the cycle covered miles 
hour and caught the car 300 
seconds, how fast was the car traveling? 


Mathematical Puzzles and 


NUMBER DIAMONDS 
Can you distribute the numbers through 
(using each number only once) the blank 
spaces such way that the numbers sur- 
rounding each letter—A, C—will total 
20? Several different combinations are pos- 


sible. Puzzles Word Games 


HOW LONG, MONET? 


water lily doubles itself size each day. 
From the time its first leaf appeared the 
time when the surface the pond was com- 
pletely covered took forty days. How long did 
take for the pond half covered? 

The Math Entertainer 


The diameter long-playing record 
inches. The unused center has diameter 
inches and there smooth outer edge 
inch wide around the recording. there are 
grooves the inch, how far does the 
move during the actual playing the 
recording? 


The Math Entertainer 


ELECTRONIC LULLABY 


Our small neighbor was given 
tronics set for Christmas and have had 
peace since. His latest model electronic 
organ. Unfortunately, only plays three notes, 
high note, ping; note, mmmmmm; 
and low note, boing. has wired these 
that the same note repeated; for ex- 
ample, ping ping immediately followed 
mmmmmm. note followed lower 
note followed ping, and note preceding 
higher note leads boing. Really quite 
impressive for twelve-year-old, but it’s get- 
ting our nerves. Can you explain why? 


Games Puzzles 


“ABRACADABRA” 


old numerologist from the Left Bank 
reports secret Grecian formula for finding 
prime numbers (numbers divisible nothing 
but and themselves, like 17, 19): 

For every whole number, prime. 
Correct? 


WIRED 


telegraph wire laid around the sur- 
face the moon its equator. second 
telegraph wire laid around the surface 
the planet Mars its equator. now 
required raise each these wires six feet 
above the equators. Clearly, each case, 
more wire required this, but how 
much more for each the two bodies? 

You may assume that Mars and the moon 
are both perfect spheres, having respective 
diameters 4140 miles and 2160 miles. You 
may also assume that when the wire raised 
six feet off the surfaces concerned, will 
not sag between supporting poles 


there are. Games Puzzles 


SQUARE ROTATION 
This circle, square and triangle each have 
the same length perimeter. the circle 
rotated without slipping around the other two, 
which case will rotate through the largest 
number degrees? 


Games Puzzles 


FLOWER CHILDREN 


five girls pack five boxes flowers 
ive minutes, how many girls are required 


pack fifty boxes fifty minutes? 


The Math Entertainer 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


GROOVY 


d 


IMPOSSIBLE DIVISION 

Aunt Jenny had greedy nephews—Philip, 
Sam and George, who eagerly looked forward 
the day when she would die and leave her 
money them. But Aunt Jenny decided 
play them little trick. She called her 
lawyer one day and made out her will 
foliows: 

The total estate amounting $1,717 
shared the nephews follows: 

Philip receive Sam and George 
1/9, with the proviso that each receive 
amount even dollars only, according 
his share. Each nephew have hours 
counting from the hour calculate 
the exact amount dollars receive. 
the event any calculated share amounts 
dollars arrived the expiration period 
hours, the whole sum becomes forfeited 
designated under Paragraph said will. 


The very next day, Aunt Jenny passed 
away and her lawyer called her three 
nephews hear him read the will. the 
end the reading, they started calculate 
their shares, but their consternation found 
that matter how they figured their shares 
they could not make them come out 
even amount dollars. 

the end hours and minutes, 

they were desperate, but the last 
went well. How did they solve 


their problem? 
Mathematical Puzzles and Pastimes 


NINES 


What six digit number added itself five 
times will give total each time having the 
same digits that number but differently 
arranged, and after the sixth addition will give 
total all nines? 


THE FROG 


Freddy the Frog into 99-foot well 
with great splash, and once starts climb- 
ing the top. goes three feet every 
day and falls back two each night. Freddy 
continues this indomitable fashion until 
has reached the very top the well. How 


long has taken him? 
Scandal 


JAN-FEB 1976 


FLIES CUBE 


Three flies start three corners cube, 
and The starting-gun fires and 
each starts crawling towards one the 
others, moving identical speeds. 
moves the direction which would take 
its target the shortest time that 
target were stationary. Presumably they will 
end arriving simultaneously but 
getting there will cross the edges the cube, 
and so, how many times? Games 


JERSEY CENTRAL FLYER 
From Philadelphia Atlantic City 
miles. Two trains leave 10:00 A.M., one 
train from Philadelphia miles hour 


other from Atlantic City miles. 


hour. When they meet, are they nearer 


The Math Entertainer 


CURIOUS PROPERTY 
The number 142857 has many remarkable 
Here one the least known: 
20408122449 and 142857 20408 
122449! There are four numbers three 


with the same property. Square the 


number, add the number formed the last 
three digits the remaining number and the 
original number appears. One the trivial 
001; slightly less trivial 999. And your 
find the other two. may en- 
courage you know that their sum ex- 


actly 1000. Games Puzzles 


2 
4 4 


CRYPTOGRAMS 

these cryptograms, another letter the 
alphabet has been substituted for the right 
letter. noticing the frequency certain 
letters and are usually the most 
often-used English), and looking 
for repeated patterns letters the words, 
you should able break each code. Each 
cryptogram different code. 


GXH 


Pencil Puzzles Word Games 


NON-SLIPPERY PROBLEM 


The figure shows four rollers which roll 
against each other, sequence, without slip- 
ping. The diameters and are inches 
and inches respectively. twice the 
diameter and the total diameters and 
together are equal four times the diam- 


second, how fast will rotate? Games 


remote country village there lived 
poor woman who found necessary cross 
certain bridge every day in.order earn 
her livelihood the next village. One day, 
she was about cross, she was ap- 
proached stranger who promised her 
riches she followed his directions. “Take 
this charm,” said, “and find that 
each time you cross, your money will 
doubled. the end each day wait- 
ing for you pay the money you 
then possess. But the charm will bring you 
this luck for only days. Then you must 

After days, the stranger had collected 
times much money the woman had 
had originally, while she came, out $7.00 
richer. 

Could you find out how much the woman 
had originally and the amount the stranger 


was abl 
able Mathematical Puzzles and Pastimes 


SWITCH THE CARS 

There are two railway carriages and 
engine the network lines and sidings 
shown below. with all railway line inter- 
sections, points are used. Trains cannot 
round corners, they must move into 
siding and then come out into the new 
track the same order. The siding labelled 
can hold either two carriages carriage 
and engine, and nothing more. The siding 
labelled can only hold carriage (an engine 
will not fit it). Devise method for shifting 
the engine and carriages around that the 
carriages labelled and are swapped over 
and the engine returned its original 
position. The engine only has motor, and 
the carriages and engine can linked any 
reasonable 


Long line which will 
hold any number 
engines and carriages 


SANDAL SALES 


town inaia nas population 20,000 
people. percent them are one-legged, 
and half the others barefoot. How many 


sandals are worn the town? 


boy chosen president and girl vice- 
president the senior class school. 
how many ways this possible the class 


has twelve boys and ten girls? The Math Entertainer 


SLUM HOUSING 


owns multiple dwelling hous- 
ing project consisting 2-room, 3-room, 
room and 5-room apartments, renting for 
$60.00, $90.00, $110.00 and $120.00 respec- 
tively, per month. Altogether has 100 apart- 
ments for which receives $10,500 monthly 
from his tenants. 

Find the number apartments can 


Mathematical Puzzles and Pastimes 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


| 
| | 
| | 


SEQUENCE TEST 


Study the series pictures below. Then, 
with picture see you can ar- 
range them the proper order that they 
will present logical sequence events. 

you complete this test correctly, you 
rate very high combining your power 
observation with your power deduction. 

Pencil Word Games 


ARTFUL ARITHMETIC 

Johnny not very keen mathematics 
quick way discovering which two 
fractions the larger. Asked find, for 
example, the larger 2/5 and 3/7 simply 
replaced them 2/3 (2/5-2) and 3/4 (3/7-3) 
respectively, which immediately replaced 
2/1 and 3/1 concluding triumphantly that 
the first, 2/5 the smaller. 

The teacher’s problem, and yours, 
course decide whether Johnny’s method 
valid, whether nonsense, and his 
correct answer this particular problem only 
lucky fluke. 


HMMMM 


JAN-FEB 1976 


SEVEN PAIRS 


two 1’s, two 2’s, and two 3’s are ar- 

ranged thus: 

then the two 1’s enclose other digit, the 
two 2’s enclose other digits, and the two 
3’s enclose other digits. Can you find 
similar arrangement using the seven pairs 
1,1; 2,2; 7,7? Counting reflections, there 
are different solutions, shouldn’t 


too hard finding one! Games 


MONEY, MONEY 
One day Phil found his dismay that 
wired his sister Amy, follows: 
WI.RE 
How much should Amy send Phil? 
Mathematical Puzzles and 


THE BLETCHLEY LAWN TENNIS CLUB 
total 111 players the 
Bletchley Lawn Tennis Club. What 
necessary determine who the best play- 
the club? (Time limit: seconds.) 
Scandal 


PRIME DEAL 


Buying new car joke, but dealer 
was very understanding. 


told me, ‘And it’s prime deal, the best 
deal you could possible get.’ What was the 
deal? 


Games Puzzles 


PROBLEM FOR BELL 


the first three letters telephone 
number indicate the name the exchange, 
how many such arrangements three letters 
possible devise from the twenty-six 
letters the alphabet? 


(Afterthought: Without looking telephone, 
what two letters are not used actual 
dial?) 


The Math Entertainer 


DEAL 


THE 100-BLOCK GANG 


Bob and four other youngsters who live 
the 100 block Center Street have formed 
group known “The 100-Block Gang.” Center 
Street runs east-west; numbers start the 
west end of-the biock, with odd numbers 
the south side the street. There are five 
houses each side the the 
numbers run from 101 110. From the fol- 
lowing clues about the five and their families, 
you should able decide the full name 
and address each member the group. 


-1. The Baileys and the Prices live directly 
opposite each other the center the block. 

John lives directly between Ethel and 
the Greens. 

Vera lives directly across the street from 
Martha, and next the Baileys. 

The Berrys live immediately east the 
Prices; there are young people directly 
across from the Berrys. 

The Golds live the south side the 
street, and John the north side. 


For this have presented 
diagram the 100 Block. found 
more solving aid than chart 


would be. Pencil Puzzles Word Games 


DOUBLE TAKE 


This game for two players for which 
you need the very most, pencil and paper. 
One player names number. His opponent 
has choice between doubling it, taking 
from perfect square perfect cube. The 
first player plays again the same manner 
and alternately, until one player his 
turn reaches zero. the winner. 

Some numbers are obviously losing. For 
example, left with you have choice be- 
Either way will subtract square and win 
immediately. Similarly loss. you 
double, take take your opponent will 
take (=2°), take take respectively. 
Now suppose you are left with 21. Should you 
win lose? you are left with 17? 


Games Puzzles 


NUMBER COMBINATIONS 
(A) Use three sixes make 
(B) Use three fours make 
(C) Use three threes make 24. 
(D) Use three fives make 
(E) Use three fives make 10. 
Scandal 


NEXT? 


What the next number this series: 
92, 74, 46, 22,18,... 


The large oblong rear the same size the others. 


CATS RATS 


felines can devour rodents 1/10 


_of hour, how many would take de- 


vour 100 rodents 6,000 seconds? 
Mathematical Puzzles and Pastimes 


CHANGE FOR DOLLAR 

What the largest amount money you 
can have and still unable give change 
for dollar? (Assume all your U.S. currency 


milch equal pilches, would you accept 
8,000 pilches for zilches? 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


JAN-FEB 1976 


AND COMPUTER SCIENCE? 

Among one hundred applicants for cer- 
tain technical position was discovered that 
ten had never taken course chemistry 
physics. Seventy-five had taken least 
one course ‘in chemistry. Eighty-three had 
taken least one course physics. 


How many the applicants had haa some 
work both chemistry and physics? 


101 Puzzles Thought and Logic 


MAGIC HEXAGON 


Can you insert the numbers the 
diagram above that the sum the four 
numbers along each line totals 26? you 
‘manage that successfully, now try with the 
added restriction that the six points the 


hexagon must add also! Games Puzzles 


TRUTH FALSEHOOD 
faraway dwelt two races. 
The Ananias were inveterate liars, while the 
Diogenes were unfailingly veracious. Once 
upon time stranger visited the land, and 
meeting party three inhabitants in- 


quired what race they belonged. The first 
murmured something that the stranger did 
not catch. The second remarked, “He said 
was Anania.” The third said the second, 
liar!” Now the question is, what 


race was this third man? 


HALVING NUMBERS 
When one half ten equal five, but 
one half nine equals four, one half 
eleven six and one half twelve, seven? 
Games Puzzles 


ODD ARRANGEMENT 


Arrange the nine digits that the first 
three shall the last three; and the 
centrai three equal the difference between 
the first three and the last three. 

not totalled. 


TELL WHY, DAD 

Sometimes little boys who ask too many 
questions tie their parents into knots. 
Take, for example, the young brat who asked 
his father professor philosophy) God 
could anything. course the father said 
“Yes.” “Then make stone large 
that can’t roll it?” asked junior. The pro- 
fessor was about say “Yes” again but re- 


mained silent. Fun With Mathematics 


TOO MUCH BEER? 

market analysis agency with standards ac- 
curacy high that boasts that em- 
ployee’s first mistake his last. 


Number consumers interviewed .... 100 
Number who drink coffee ............ 
Number who drink tea............... 


Number who drink both tea and 


Why was the interviewer discharged? 
101 Puzzles Thought and Logic 


OLYMPIC WALKERS 


and begin, a.m. the same 
day, walk along road the same direc- 
tion, having start miles, and each 
walking from a.m. p.m. daily. walks 
miles, uniform pace, the first day, 
the second, the third, and on: walks 
miles, uniform pace, the first day, 
the second, the third, and on. When and 
where are they together? Pillow Problems 


inhabitants which the 

ments are, surprisingly, true: 

Every man the town perfect logician 
and aware that this true every 
other man the town. 

Every man the knows about 
the behavior every woman the town, 
with the exception, married, 
his own wife. taboo for anyone 
speak about woman her husband. 

maybe, but inevitable night fol- 
lowing day them) that, when man dis- 
covers that his wife has been unfaithful, 
takes her out into the town square that 
same night, and, the stroke mid- 
night, shoots her. 

There are unfaithful wives town. 

Now, life has been continuing its un- 
eventful course for some time when, one fate- 


ful summer’s day, June 1st actually, the Mayor 


summons all the townsmen meeting 
you this,’ says, ‘but there unfaithful 
wife this town.’ The meeting ends and the 
men disperse. What, anything, happens, 
and when? (Not easy problem!) 

Games Puzzles 


ONE BAG TWO? 


There are two bags, one containing 
counter, known either white black; 
the other containing white and black. 
white put into the first, the bag shaken, 
and counter drawn out, which proves 
white. Which course will now give the best 
Chance drawing white—to draw from one 
the two bags without knowing which 
is, empty one bag into the and 


then draw? Pillow Problems 


VERY ODD 


There are consecutive odd numbers and 
when they are multiplied each other you 
get 

find them—if you try hard enough. 


Mathematical Puzzles and Pastimes 


PERSISTENT PADDLER 


woodsman paddling steadily across the 
still surface northern lake saw mag- 
nificent bass break water directly ahead 
him. Twelve strokes counted until his 
canoe first crossed the ever-widening circle 
the fish had made, and then twelve more be- 
fore broke through the circle the op- 
posite side. For time thereafter sought 
relief from the pleasant monotony his jour- 
ney calculating how far away the fish had 
been the moment jumped, but proved 
too much for him and soon gave himself 
less specific thoughts. 

Can you complete his calculation? 


Puzzles Thought and Logic 


TYPEWRITER TWISTER 
For this puzzle you need know your 
typewriter keyboard very well, otherwise 
have typewriter front you. Each letter 
coded the row and its position 
the row. Thus which the first letter 
the first row will 11, and the last 
letter that line and the tenth will 110. 
the third letter the second row will 23. 
certain word coded this manner 
and then each number from re- 
placed different number from 10. 
Finally the resulting number pairs are con- 
verted back, using the same code reversed, 
into letters. The letters sequence are: 
What was the original word? 
Games Puzzles 


SKEW ADDITION 


this addition sum, the powers have 
been written under each other, but with each 
unit digit displaced one the right compared 
the preceding number. Assuming the 
powers are added forever this man- 
ner, what will the answer be? 


243 
729 

2187 
6561 
19683 


Games Puzzles 


NONE GIVEN 
the third JAS and the fourth OND, 
what are the first two? 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


‘ 
SMALL TOWN AFFAIR 
| | | 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 


SEE-SAW 


Nine boys, none whom weighed more 


than 100 pounds less than pounds, 
experimented see-saw and found the 
following lucky thirteen facts: 
The see-saw balanced because the total 
weight each end was exactly equal: 
Art and Don with George and Henry 
Art and Chuck with Don, George 
and 


ferences weight the two ends 
being more than ten pounds: 
Bob and Chuck with and Fred 
Chuck and George with and 
Henry 
Don and George with 
Art, George Henry with Chuck and 
These groups were quite unbalanced, 
the differences weight the two 
ends being pounds more: 
Art with Don 
Don with Fred 
10. Chuck with Ira 
11. Bob and Don with Henry and Ira 
12. Chuck and Henry with Fred and Ira 
13. Art, Chuck and Henry with Don, 
and Fred 
How many pounds does each boy weigh? 
Thinking caps will required for this one. 


Games Puzzles 


Spiral 


THREE BAGS 

There are bags; one containing white 
counter and black one, another two white 
and black, and the third white and 
black. not known what order the bags 
are placed. white counter drawn from 
one them, and black from another. What 
the chance drawing white counter from 
the remaining bag? 


Pillow Problems 


These groups were excellent, the 


BARREL FUN 


millionaire offered you your choice 
between barrel filled with half dollars and 
the same barrel filled with dimes, which 
would you choose? 


Fun With Mathematics 


TENNIS HILLCREST 

Eight men entered the recent tennis tour- 
nament The tournament was 
played three consecutive days, one round 
per day, and happily match was defaulted. 
The first and second round matches were 
Stipulated sets out while the 
final was sets our spectator who 
was present all three days reports the fol- 
lowing facts: 

Eggleston never met Haverford. 

Before play began, Gormley remarked 
jocularly Bancroft, see that meet 
the finals.” 

Chadwick won set love but lost 
his first match. 

Altogether 140 games were played, 
which the losers won 43. 

When the pairings were posted, Aber- 
crombie said Devereaux, “Do you concede, 
you want play out?” 

the second day, the first-round 
losers played bridge, and the same table 
gathered the third day with Eggleston 
place Abercrombie. 

Bancroft won games. 

Franklin won games. 

The first score the tournament was 
service ace Gormley, which Eggleston 
shouted “Hey, not over there!” 

Who won the tournament? Whom did 


beat and what score? Mathematical 


turn up. There are eight ways all. 
What the chance that the three coins 
will turn all 
What the chance that the three coins 
will turn two heads and one tail? 
Invitation Mathematics 


y 


| 


Z, 
4 JAN-FEB 1976 53 


GIGO 


What the based 
the data given problems through 


How many days you school? 


Days 

Days year: 365 
You sleep least hours per day 


This leaves: 243 
You have Saturdays and 


Sundays off: 104 
This leaves: 139 
You have summer vacation for 

three months: 
This leaves: 
You have Christmas and Easter 

vacations: 
This leaves: 
And you spend least hours 

each day eating: 


More people were killed airplane ac- 
cidents 1960 than 1928. Therefore, 
was more dangerous ride airplane 
1960 than 1928. 


Checkered cows produce percent 
more milk than other cows. Therefore, check- 
ered cows are the best milkers. 


There are fewer accidents France 
than Germany. Therefore, safer 
drive car France than Germany. 

Mathematics 


KRYPTIC KIDS 
There are eight brothers and sisters 
family: Georgette, Ulysse, Yvon, Marie, An- 
nette, Roger, and Emile. All are less 
than ten years old. you represent the age 
each child the first letter its name, you 
obtain: 


GUY )MARIE 


MARE 


Marie the youngest the sisters, 
what her age? 


150 Puzzles 


‘SIMPLE MULTIPLICATION 
Let take any two numbers fractions 
and multiply them together. Then take 
the same two numbers the equivalent deci- 
mals and multiply them again. Naturally you 
would expect the two answers the same. 
But let’s see: 


16% 16.5 
12% 12.5 
8.25 
33.0 


(half 12%) Answer: 206.25 
Answer: 


What has happened the other 
Fun With Mathematics 


COUNTERWEIGHTS 


The large flats and other pieces scenery 
used vaudeville theater are counter- 
weighted sandbags, that when they 
are moved only small portion the weight 
has borne the stagehands. 


The theater keeps hand set metal 
counterweights for occasional use with special 
pieces. Any all the weights can at- 
tached quickly elevator rope. There are 
five weights the set, arranged that 
possible compound any load which 
multiple 10, from pounds the 
total all five weights together. The choice 
weights.is such reach the maximum 
possible total load. What are the several 


weights? Mathematical Puzzles 


CHINESE 
How many guests were present Chin- 
ese party every two used dish for rice 


between them, every three dish for broth, 
every four dish for meat, and there were 


dishes altogether? The Math Entertainer 


LIFT SIMULATION 


Write program simulate lift, capable 
stopping floors. The lift controlled 
buttons the middle floors (request- 
ing lift and lift down), single 
the top and bottom floors and set 
buttons the lift itself corresponding the 
floors. 

The lift such way that 
the buttons within the lift take precedence 
over those each the floors. However, the 
lift can made stop floor result 
request there, the lift passing thru 
that floor the right direction alternatively 
there request from within the lift itself. 

Requests for the lift are queued and, apart 
from the provisos given above, are dealt with 
first come first served basis. 

The program simulating the lift allows the 
user press any the buttons (by typing 
the teleprinter), just before about reach 
floor, whether not due stop there. 
there are requests all, the program 
terminates. Output from the program should 
indicate where the lift is, the direction 


moving and where stops. 
Computer Programming Problems 


BATTER 


How many possible batting orders are 
there for baseball team players? 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


= 


JAN-FEB 1976 


WATCHERS 


The fat men club the thin 
men sixteen. Seven times the number 
fat men exceeds nine times the number thin 
men thirty-two. Find the number fat and 
thin men the club. The Math Entertainer 


SEESAW 
Three brothers playground play 
seesaw. The teeter board has fixed 
seat each end, feet away from the trestle 
which the board swings. When Alfred and 
Bobby take .seats, Charles, who weighs 
pounds, balances them sitting Alfred’s 


side inches away from the trestle. When 
Charles sits seat, takes both his 
brothers balance him, Alfred the other 
seat and Bobby one foot nearer the center. 
Now Bobby takes Alfred’s place, where 
must Alfred sit balance 


Mathematical Puzzles 


SQUARE EIGHTEEN 


How can the numbers placed, one 
each these circles, that the sums the 
numbers the corners each the five 
areas, and the sum the four numbers the 
outside are all equal and the and are 
not two corners same area square? 


Games Puzzles 


FAST FREIGHT 
takes twice long for passenger 
train pass freight train after first over- 
takes takes the two trains pass 
when going opposite directions. 


How many times faster than the freight 
train the passenger train? 


101 Puzzles Thought and Logic 


SIMPLE PUZZLE 


Try this set simple problems with your 
students and see they can draw general 
conclusions about how the problem would 
solved different game boards. Draw 
follows: 


Put penny What the 
would take the penny from 
either horizontally vertically 
per turn? The answer which 
pretty easy discover. siightly 
more difficult question however: How many 
different paths are there that takes moves 

Now try answer the same questions 


Now fill the following chart: 
Smallest number Number 


Board moves from smallest paths 


3x3 
4x4 
5x5 


6x6 


you see any patterns? Can you de- 
scribe them simple words? Can you also 
describe them mathematical symbols? 


SQUARES 


How many squares can you find the 
diagram below? 


LOGIC ONLY 


Gamesmag 


ABCDE 
EDCBA 
55 


Can you place the numbers the 
honeycomb’s nineteen cells such way 
that there difference least be- 
tween any one and its neighboring cells? 


Games Puzzles 


DOUBLE STRIP 


strip paper folded once, the 
figure. what angle must folded 
that the double thickness area (shaded) 


small possible. Games Puzzles 


ALPHABET SOUP 

word “crypt-arithmetic” was 
troduced Vatriquant writing under the 
pseudonym “Minos”. the 1931 issue 
Sphinx, Belgian magazine recreational 
mathematics, proposed this problem with 
these remarks: 

“Cryptographers, hide the meaning 
messages, put figures places letters. 
way reprisal, will replace each digit 
the following problem distinct letter.” 


ABC 
xDE 


FEC 


150 Puzzles 
HGBC 


Although the word was new, the type 
puzzle was older. The earliest one col- 
lection from the Strand Magazine for July, 
1924: 


TWO TWO 


THREE 


ADJACENT SQUARES 


and 169 are both squares. They have 
something else common—they can both 
formed placing two squares adjacent 
each other, using and and and 
respectively. 

What are the next two squares with this 


property? Games Puzzles 


BOYS 
The same six boys are sit around table 


for lunch. How many different arrangements 
can made the order which they are 


The Entertainer 


AND WHO’S THE TRACK COACH? 


the Stillwater High School the econ- 
omics, English, French, history, Latin, and 
mathematics classes are taught, though not 
necessarily respectively, Mrs. Arthur, Miss 
Bascomb, Mrs. Conroy, Mr. Duval, Mr. Eggle- 
ston, and Mr. Furness. 

The mathematics teacher and the Latin 
teacher were roommates 

Eggleston older than Furness but has 
not taught long the economics teacher. 

students, Mrs. Arthur and Miss Bas- 
comb attended one high school while the 
others attended different high school. 

Furness the French father. 

The English teacher the oldest the 
six both age and years. service. 
fact had the mathematics teacher and the 
history teacher class when they were stu- 
dents the Stillwater High School. 

Mrs. Arthur older than the Latin teacher. 


What subject does each person teach? 
101 Puzzles and Logic 


(= 


sit? 
56 CREATIVE COMPUTING 


SANTA CLAUS 


the value CHRISTMAS 110, what 


the most likely value NEW YEAR? 


made smart move marking down those 


shirts from $2.00,” remarked Mr.. Gaberdine 


his wife. “We have disposed the entire 
lot.” 

“Good!” said Mrs. Gaberdine. “How much 
profit did you made?” 

“We haven’t figured yet, but the gross 
from the sale was $603.77.” 

“Well, how many shirts did you sell?” 

Let the reader answer the question. 

Mathematical Puzzles 


NOT QUITE USELESS 


The well-known firm Shyster, Shyster, 
Shyster, Shyster Sons trouble. The cal- 


machines they use work out their 


fees are badly broken down. One will only 
add, another will only subtract, the third will 
only multiply, and the fourth will nothing 


put divide. Which machine will most use 


the poor clerks, who are totally useless 
mental arithmetic? Games Puzzles 


NEXT SEQUENCE PLEASE 


Ten letters—what the eleventh? 
The answer this one far out, 
sight, just too much. 
MVEMJSUN? 


Games Puzzles 


JAN-FEB 1976 


LAST DIGIT ONLY 


What the last digit Try this 
BASIC (remember: not the entire number, just 
the last digit). 


SHIRT SALE 


57 


THE THREE BEGGARS 


charitable lady met poor man whom 
she gave one cent more than half the 
money she had her purse. The poor fel- 
low, who was member the United Mendi- 
cants’ Association, managed, while tendering 
his thanks, chalk the organization’s sign 
good thing” her clothing. result, 
she met many objects charity she pro- 
ceeded her journey. 

the second applicant she gave two 
cents more than half what she had left. 
the third beggar she gave three cents 
more than half the remainder. She now 

How much money did she have when she 


out? Puzzles Sam Lloyd 


MARK TWAIN’S SUGGESTION 


true (as Mark Twain once suggested) 
that with two dice one twice likely 
throw throw 10? Scandal 


Our-local librarian been very busy. 
Monday she cataloged only some the new 
books received. Tuesday she received many 
new books were uncataloged Monday, 
and cataloged 10. Wednesday she received 
more than Monday, and cataloged many 
she had done that day. Three times 
many books arrived Thursday she had 
cataloged Wednesday, and were cata- 
loged. Friday, books arrived and fewer 
were cataloged than were received Wednes- 
day. Saturday she was able catalog the 
outstanding books the library was 


closed. How many books arrived Monday? 
Games Puzzles 


COMING TOWN 


Uncle Reuben and Aunt Cynthia came 
town shop. Reuben bought suit and hat 
for $15. Cynthia paid much for her hat 
Reuben did for his suit; then she spent 
the rest their money for new dress. 

the way home, Cynthia called Reuben’s 
attention the fact that his hat cost more 
than her dress. Then she added: “If 
divided our hat money differently that 
bought different hats, mine costing and 
times the cost yours, then each would 
have spent the same amount money.” 

“In that case,” said Uncle Reuben, “how 
much would hat have cost?” 

Can you answer Reuben’s question and 
also tell how much money the couple spent 


altogether? Sam Lloyd 


THE MOVIES 


old-time movie house charged admis- 
sion prices cents for adult and 
cents for the cashier the box- 


office after closing time counted the ticket 
stubs and found that they totaled 385 while 
the money amounted $62.65—how many 


Mathematical Puzzles.and Pastimes 


Place the integers through the 
spaces the grid below that each the 
two rows, two columns, and five squares that 
can formed with numbers each have 
total 26. How many fundamentally different 
ways can the numbers arranged the grid 
(don’t count rotations mirror images)? Can 
you find the arrangement which two con- 
secutive numbers are next each other 
vertically, horizontally diagonally? 


BUT SUMMER 
Each different letter this sum stands for 
original addition sum? 


SPRING 

RAINS 

GREEN 
PLAINS Games Puzzles 


ERIC’S FAIR DICE 


‘Let’s decide like this,’ said Eric, got 
two dice here. each choose’a number and 
throw the dice until the total the two 
uppermost faces number one has 
chosen, and will first.’ ‘That’s good,’ 
said David, ‘some totals are more likely than 
others, and anyway there are too many us.’ 
‘Wrong both counts,’ replied Eric, grinning, 
‘these are special dice. Every different pair 
faces gives different total, and the totals 
start from and consecutively. OK?’ 
believe that when see the dice,’ said David. 
looked them and Eric was quite right: 
they had what numbers their faces? 


Games Puzzles 


SUMMARIZING 


The numbers have already been 
placed square array. Your puzzie turn 
each horizontal and vertical column into cor- 
rect sum placing between each pair 
numbers, vertically and horizontally, plus, 
minus equals sign using eight each. 


HARDWARE SUPPLIES 

man went into hardware store buy 
something for his house. asked the clerk 
the price, and the clerk replied, “The price 
one twelve cents, the price 
twenty-four cents, and the price 144 
What did the man want 
buy? 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


a 
58 


EVEN ADDITION 


The number 156 the sum the first 
even numbers. Curiously enough, ‘is 
beheaded which the sum the 
first even numbers, and.beheading again, 
the sum the first two. There one other 
three-figure with the 
and just one 4-fiaure number. What are they? 


Games Puzzles 


MAP 


Here teaser for anyone who has ever 
had trouble refolding road map. Try solving 
your head. our six-section map below 
folded that section top facing 
you, which the other five sections would 
possible have the bottom facing 
the other way? 


TWO COINS 


how many ways can two coins turn up? 
The possible ways are heads-heads, heads- 
tails, tails-heads, tails-tails. 

What the chance that the two coins 

will turn two heads? 

What the chance that the two coins 

will turn one head and one tail? 
Invitation Mathematics 


POWER PROBLEM 


The integer 844,596,301 the 5th powe 
what number? 


JAN-FEB 1976 


TOM THE PIPER’S SON 


Piper’s son stole the pig and away run. 

When Tom started after the pig, was 

standing 250 yards due south the pig. Both 

began running the same time and ran with 
uniform speeds. The pig ran due east. In- 

stead running north-east straight line, 

Tom ran that every instant was 

running directly toward the pig. 

Assuming that Tom ran and times 
faster than the pig, how far did the pig run 
before was caught? The simple rule for 
solving this type problem based 
elementary arithmetic, but will doubtless 


new most our Puzzles Sam Lloyd 


SUMS CODE 


This coded sum uses all four rules arith- 
metic. Can you supply the figures? Each dif- 
ferent letter stands for different digit from 


PYF 
(multiplication) 


GPGY 

(addition) 
GPTA 

(subtraction) 


TGA Games Puzzles 


GOT THE POINT? 


The arithmetic line below obviously 
incorrect, but with the insertion two dots 
(as decimal points) line the line 
equation made correct. Now see you 
can insert two dots somewhere the third 
line correct the faulty arithmetic: 

(72 x3)—5 166 
(7.2x3)—5 16.6 


Three boys received nickel each spend 
candy. The stock offered the candy 
store comprised lollipops for cent, 
chocolate bonbons for cent, and jujubes 
for cent. Each boy made different 
selection, but each spent his entire cents 
and returned with pieces candy. 
What were their selections? Mathematical Puzzles 


According Mother Goose, Tom the 
ae 
/ 
59 


ONE PILE 

This purely numerical game been 
traced back remote antiquity, and probably 
antedates the games position, such 
tic-tac-toe. 

number pebbles counters any 
description massed one pile. The two 
players draw alternately from the pile, the 
object being gain the last counter. 

were permitted seize the whole 
pile, the first player would course win; 
the draw were limited one counter 
turn, the result would depend upon whether. 
the number the pile were originally odd 
even. Therefore, minimum draw one 
than one. 

Suppose the limits are counters. 


Then player finds just counters left 


the pile, loses. Whatever takes, his 
opponent can take the remainder. readily 
seen that the number critical one be- 
cause the sum the minimum and 
maximum limits the draw. 

order leave his opponent with 
counters draw from, player must pre- 
viously have left him Whether then: 
the pile Evidently the series winning 
combinations, each which number 
left the pile for the opponent draw 

denote winning combination” 
and the least and most that may 
drawn turn and respectively, then 

w=(a+m)n 
where any integer. This formula quite 
general, and independent the number 
counters the pile. this numiber 


LEAVE THE LAST 


The game can also played with the 
object forcing one’s opponent take the 
last counter. leave the reader write 
the formula for this case. 

Mathematical Puzzles 


BASIC 


base 10, 7744 (two different pairs 
like integers). the smallest number 
squared base which will produce the 
same pattern? 
base 


Write computer program identify 


such numbers base 20. 


QUICKIES 


What the next letter this sequenc 
NNNENEENEEE? 


10°16 14, what 9*11? 
COS scores and MEW scores how 
many will HANKY score? 
Games Puzzles 


FIND THE PATH 


Can you trace path from the lower left 
upper right square (vertical, horizontal, 
moves are OK) that totals exactly 


Richard Latta 
Joliet, 


DECAY CURVES 


1000 coins are tossed. Those which fall 
tails are removed and the remainder tossed 
again. Those which fall tails are removed and 
on. tedious experiment perform but 
which easy simulate. program writ- 
ten this record the result each 
tossing point graph. The graph 
would have ‘coins remaining’ across the page 
and ‘throw number’ down the 

Changing the probability from in- 
put value the simulation reflects radio- 
active decay. the probability that atom 
particular element decays unit time and 
the graph shows the number atoms which 
are not decayed each time. 

The program can improved allowing 
any decayed atoms decay again 
second radioactive material with probability 
graph showing the number atoms each 
material. 


Computer Programming Problems 


Scandal 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


still day, does fall directly below the 


The ystic 


Anthony Dickins 


seems have possessed certain 
properties. Probably this originated with 
the calculations the calendar the 
early prehistoric period 
priests, magicians, and 


time immemorial, the number 


were engaged observing the motions 
the Sun, the Moon and the Stars, care- 
fully recording their results. The 365 
days the solar year were (nearly) 
divisible into ‘weeks’ days each 
(with only one day left remaining 
account for). possible that one 
time and some places the year was 
divided into months days each, 
the five ‘extra’ days being treated 
‘dark’ days around the winter solstice 
from 21st December (the shortest day) 
the 25th when was clear beyond doubt 
that the sun was not dead but was being 
But with the four solstices and 
equinoxes the year occurring regu- 
lar intervals, seems most likely that the 
year was first divided into four ‘quarters’, 
each having days. This would leave 
only one day per year unaccounted for. 
The number has only two factors, 
and 13, and this may well have been the 
influence that led establishing 
weeks days each the 91-day 
quarter. so, this, too, probably accounts 
for the very deep-rooted superstition 
about the number 13, which found 
cultures great distances apart. 
notable that and are the two num- 
bers most heavily charged with the aura 
‘of superstition and mysticism. 

the number has 
remarkable properties. Here are 
some well-known ones, together with 
some less well-known and some quite 
new. 

The fraction one-seventh expressed 
decimal form 0.142857142857... 
The six figures 142857 recur infinitely. 
Treating 142857 six digit number, 
and setting out multiplication table 
the first six numbers, get this curious 


result: 


142857 


JAN-FEB 1976 


adepts all kinds all over the 


These are the six ‘cyclic permutations’ 
the number 142857 which the only 
number less than million whose cyclic 
permutations are all multiples itself. 
will also noticed that there palin- 
dromic effect the digits, columns 
from left right being identical 

Another curious feature this cyclic 
number that the dirits form cyclic 
set, not only our usual scale 10, but 
also all other scales from base-9 inclu- 
sive, upwards. Obviously, this does not 
hold for the binary scale, base-2, and 
other lower-scales where only digits 
lesser value than etc., may 
used. 

passing, may noted that the 
next known ‘cyclic’ number this sort 
has digits 052, 631, 578, 947, 368, 
421. The leader who wishes verify 
this will have pleasant surprise when 
10, and sets the products down rows 
beneath the original number just was 
done with 142857 
paragraph. 

Reverting our original decimal ex- 
pression for the fraction one-seventh 
another recurring. decimal, this time 
digits: 

63265306122448979 

this number, there are 
sequences, each beginning with dif- 
ferent Notice that the ten 
different digits are represented evenly 
possible 42-digit number. There 
are five five and four each the 
other digits. 

Another number 5040, 
factorial (Factorial seven, written 7!, 
equal 7x6x5x4x3x2x1). 5040 was 
noticed Plato being remarkable for 
having very large number divisors. 
divisible all but one the first 
numbers, and all but six the first 
numbers. How quickly can you identify 
these exceptions? 

The following arrangements show pro- 
perties that are not unique but 
which shares, greater lesser 
extent, with other numbers. 
(1234567 
1=7? 


even 


15873 

31746 

333333 

999999 142857 and arrive back 
this unique number. 


Reprinted. with permission from Games Copyright 1975 (U.K.) Ltd. 


legend, there are the Seven- 


The number SEVEN found various 
non-thematical connections, both 
classical times, and also more recent 
history. There were the SEVEN Wonders 
the World; there were the SEVEN 
Sages Greece, the SEVEN Argive 
heroes, the SEVEN Hills Rome. There 
were also the SEVEN Seas (the Arctic, 
the Antarctic, the North Pacific, the South 
Pacific, the North Atlantic, the South 
Atlantic, and the Indian Ocean). 

mystical and religious connections, 
the number SEVEN has played large 
too. the Book Revelations, there 
are SEVEN Stars and SEVEN Golden 
Candlesticks, which represent SEVEN 
Churches; lamb with SEVEN horns and 
SEVEN eyes which are the SEVEN spirits 
God, which are also SEVEN lamps 
fire; SEVEN seals the Book; SEVEN 
angels; trumpets; SEVEN 
thunders; SEVEN vials; SEVEN kings; 
and dragon with SEVEN heads. The 
number also seems have held 
rather special importance for St. John. 
The Dance the SEVEN Veils and the 
SEVEN Pillars Wisdom should also 
mentioned. 

One common theory for the con- 
Struction the Universe classical 
times, when the Sun was supposed 
the Heavenly Bodies circling the Earth, 
included seven concentric circles 
‘rings’ perpetually revolving round the 
Earth somewhere many miles the 
sky hence the term ‘Seventh Heaven’. 

the twentieth century, the famous 
physicist, Niels Bohr, who contributed 
much towards the mathematics and the 
understanding the structure the 
atom, postulated nucleus having, 
were, seven shells, analogous the 
seven notes the musical scale the 
seven planets antiquity. 

The Seven Days the Creation and 
the Seven Deadly Sins further 
religious uses. Isaiah, there are the 
Seven Gifts the Holy Ghost; and 
Matthew (chapter 15), there are seven 
loaves feed the four thousand and 
seven baskets crumbs left over. The 
constellation stars, the Pleiades, 
also known the Seven Sisters; and the 
Seven Sisters are also the chalk cliffs 
just east Cuckmere Haven, Sussex. 


leagued boots Hop Thumb, and 
the man with Seven Wives going St. 
Ives. forget, either, the 
supposed seven bad luck that 
accompanies the breaking mirror. 

One way and another, the number 
has had good innings mathematics 
and history. finish off with, here 
one final fraction: 


1234567654321 


7777777 7777777 


‘Not every problem one solved computer 


Eugene Homer 
Post College, Greénvale, 


The second problem the feature column and 
Problems For Fun”, Creative Computing, (May-June, 
1975) proved ideal nucleus for class.discussion 

advanced programming, although the results were 
not what, presume, the author intended. 
The problem was stated thusly: 


“Mr. Karbunkle went the bank cash his 
weekly paycheck. handing over money, the 
cashier, mistake, gave him dollars for cents and 
cents for dollars. 
“He pocketed the money without examining 
and spent nickel candy for his little boy. then 
discovered the error and found possessed exactly 
twice the amount the check. 
had money his pocket before cashing 
the check, what was the exact amount the check? 
One clue: Mr. Karbunkle earns less than $50 week.” 


assume the intent the author was have readers 
write computer program solve the problem trial and 
error. intent was show the class how analysis the 
problem before coding could simplify the program. would 
like share this lesson and the resulting conclusion with 
the readers Creative Computing. 

Our first step was state whatever relationships 
could from the problem mathematical form. 

Let the integer number dollars and the integer 
number cents Mr. Karbunkle’s paycheck. The total 
amount printed his check, expressed cents, is: 


(1) 


Since the teller reversed and the amount cash Mr. 
Karbunkle received, again expressed cents, is: 


100C+D 
are told that 
(3) 


obtain: 


100C+D—5=2(100D+C), 
which can simplified to: 
199D=98C—5, (4) 
have one equation, two integer unknowns, which 
does look like problem for trial and error solution. 


were code this point, might come with 
something like this, remembering that less than 50: 


INTEGER D,C 

WRITE (5,3) 
CALL EXIT 
CONTINUE 
WRITE (5,4) 

CALL EXIT 
FORMAT 
FORMAT SOLUTION’) 
END 


Although this looks like fairly simple program, 
pointed out would require maximum 4,900 
repetitions the main loop. (In the following, becomes 
convenient measure interatives the number times 
the statement executed.) view this large amount 
computation agreed that the analyst should attempt 
two things: 

Reduce the amount computation the loop, and 

Reduce the number times the program must loop. 

Tackling the first idea, the class came with such 
suggestions replacing lines and the above program 
with the line: 


199, 9751, 199 


similar discussion about simplifying lines 
and the above program. this round, became 
apparent that must greater than since for C=1, 
and would never equal It-also became 
apparent that our inner loop could terminated soon 
became greater than now had our program down 
something like 


INTEGER D,C 

N=199, 9751, 199 
WRITE (5, 

CALL EXIT 
CONTINUE 
CONTINUE 

etc. 


had reduced our maximum number executions 
the statement almost one-half (to 2,499 executions) 
and had removed all arithmetic calculation from the loops. 

were still not happy with the program, since the 
inner loop, was too repetitive. saw that 
particular value was less than particular value 
there was need try that value again for the next 
value This led the removal the inner loop 
altogether: 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


4 
| 


INTEGER D,C 
L=93 
(N—L) 2,5 
WRITE (5, 
CALL EXIT 
CONTINUE 
etc. 


few “runs” hand this program indicated that 
would try only values ,of for each value 
the maximum number statement executions 
98. 

Before this approach, took another look 
Equation For any non-negative integer value the 
right side the equation will odd. Therefore the term 
199 must odd, and therefore must odd. Thus, 
may assume only the values and 199 will 
increase increments 2(199)=398. program, 
then, can have its statement changed 


resulting another halving the iterations. 


was now time take another tack. reminded the 
class last week’s. work with modular numbers, and 
showed them that Equation satisfied the first definition 
modular number, 
4 


i 


but failed the second definition, 


where 
q=C 
m=98 


However, could rewrite Equation as: 
199D 
199D 98(C—1)+93 


which satisfied both definitions modular numbers with 


could then write, from the familiar expression 


199D mod (5) 


Our strategy then could use the MOD function 
can solve for 
799 


and, rewriting equation 


‘AN-FEB 1976 


Our new program follows. Note that have also 


the integer declaration being unnecessary. 


D=N/199 
(N+5)/9800. 
WRITE (5, 
CALL EXIT 
CONTINUE 
WRITE (5,4) 
CALL EXIT 
FORMAT (F7.2) 
FORMAT (1X,’NO SOLUTION’) 
END 


This looked like reasonable program, requiring only 
repetitions the statement, maximum. set out 
run hand, with these results: 


199 
597 
995 

1393 


this point the saw that increased 199, 
increased and that might possible “figure 
out” when would hit 93. 

took only few minutes work out the fact that 


3+6i 
i=15 


This would occur when 
199+398(15)=6169, 


and 6169 


31, 

$31.63 


sure, checked with equations and 
$63.31 
$63.31 $.05 $63.26 2($31.63). 


Our now has reduced to: 


WRITE (5,5) 
CALL EXIT 

FORMAT 
END 


spent about two hours going over this puzzle. While 
much our work was useless terms the solution, 
the class did learn some valuable lessons 
discussion. They learned that careful analysis problem 
can lead startling reduction the amount 
computing done. They learned that pays run 
through program “by hand” few times discover 
hidden relationships. Finally, they learned that not every 
problem presented computer-oriented environment 
problem solved computer programming. 


199D 

q=C-1 

r=93 


Non-Usual Mathemaiics for Computer Solution 


James Reagan 


Stevenson High School, Sterling Heights, Michigan 


Introduction 
Mathematics instruction generally proceeds sequentially 


and deductively. This instructional procedure creates 


misconception the mathematics. Mathematics not 
totally deductive logic; the deductive proof any 
hypothesis developed after one has become quite certain 
that the conjecture true. One investigates enough specific 
cases become somewhat sure that the observed cases 
generalize that the proper limits the conjecture have 
found. Thus, there contradiction between the 
mathematics its instruction and mathematics its 
historical development. formal instruction mathe- 
matics the discovery the theorems, rules, and properties 
are taught though they were bestowed upon man were 
the two tablets containing the Commandments; the 
time and effort expended are seldom discussed. Most 
mathematics courses offer the student the deductive 
process developing the material when, historically, the 
deductive process was employed late the development 
the topic. 

Because mathematics instruction’s dependence upon 
deductive development, certain topics fall before after 
certain other topics; and mathematics instruction has 
become characterized its sequential approach. true 
that there are certain foundations upon which some topics 
rest; these pre-requisites are necessary for the development 
the vocabulary and the organization latter theorems. 
With the use computers many schools, some the 
latter topics can studied out sequence. 

Agreed, there what might called mathematics 
sophistication before one can master certain topics, but 
how much mathematics sophistication required 
understand and appreciate the material? this writer’s 
experience that students the secondary school can 
investigate topics and solve problems prior the 
traditional time location the topic problem the 
instructional sequence. Many topics commonly deferred 
the college curriculum are suitable and interesting for the 

school student. 

What follows this series are examples such 
problems that have been studied and solved high school 
students computer programming classes Stevenson 
High School and many other high schools having computer 
access. 


Infinitely Many Primes 


Background the Problem 

The great mathematician the third century 
Euclid, proved that there are infinitely 
Euclid’s proof leads interesting problems some 2000 
years later. 

First the proof and then the problems. 

The proof reductio absurdum, indirect proof. 

Suppose there are finitely many prime numbers. Then, 
these primes can listed order. 


primes: 


Either prime composite. Each these results 

for leads contradiction that the largest prime. 
First, prime, then clearly greater than and 


64 


not the greatest prime. 

Second, suppose composite. has prime factor 
This prime factor cannot one the primes 
since dividing each the primes the list 
greater than 

are infinitely many prime numbers. 


Statement the Problem 

The creation the number the proof Euclid 
leads many interesting questions. 

Create set numbers the recursive definition: 


Ph+1= P, *P, *P; “Ph +7. 

Are each the numbers the set prime? 

some number the list not prime, prime factor 
greater than the preceding number the list? For 
than 

These same questions apply second set that can 
created subtracting instead adding the previous 
list product. 

Create second set follows: 


P, =2 
P, =3 


Pn+1 =P, “P,*... —1. 


Answer the same questions with the first set. 
Finally, create third set and investigate. 


P, =5 


Pn+1 =P, * “Pat 
Hints 
One the constraints the computations the 


number significant digits the computing machine. The 


numbers each the sets become large rapidly and can 
soon overflow the significant digit capacity the machine. 
extended precision routine may needed investigate 
far into the sets. [See “Computing Factorials 
Accurately” Walter Koetke, Creative Computing Vol 
9—11.] 

save variable storage during execution the 
program, instead using high dimensioned vectors, 
might helpful create file which store new 
numbers the set and from which read out previcus 
numbers. 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


P, =2 


computer the aggressive method play significantly better than the defensive. 


PLAYING 


Dr. Reisman 
Canada, Ltd. Laboratory 


Game theory enables one classify competitive 
games according characteristics rules play 
the game. Consequently, the game chess 
described sum game perfect 
information. describes com- 
petitive situation between two players which the 
total game situation open observation both 
players. Both have opposite interests the 
outcome and one win the loss. 
addition, the game can terminated finite 
number moves. Games perfect information 
differ from games imperfect information the 
fact that, the latter, there best strategy. 
However, the former, sometimes called strictly 
determined games, the player with the best strategy 
will win his play. 

The game Draw and Match Dominoes 
classified two-person, zero sum imperfect 
information and according game theory there 
best strategy play which can employed. 

was hypothesized while this might fact 
true, techniques simulating cognitive processes 
might used determine better strategies 
exist. Consequently, player protocols were gathered 
from while they played 
version Draw and Match Dominoes. analysis 
the protocols indicated that human players use 

form their playing strategy. These components are 

described as: (1) the defensive component; (2) the 
aggressive component; and, (3) 
component. 

player’s being more.apt make assumptions about 
his opponent’s game situation and result at- 
tempting block his every move. The aggressive 
component different that the player using 
makes assumptions about his opponent’s situa- 
tion and instead makes his move only the basis 
his own known situation with the objective 
playing his longest chain tiles. 
component used rarely, and only last means 

decision making the other two components 
are unsatisfactory. characterized the player’s 
counting the various tiles already played and making 
decisions the likelihood matches being 
drawn from the bank. 


JAN-FEB 1976 


effort determine the validity this 
classification system interactive Dominoes-playing 
program was written the list processing language 
IPL-V.* The program was altered that the strategy 
employed game could varied combina- 
tions the above components. Results the com- 
puter play indicated that the classification system 
is, fact, operational one. 

order determine there are optimal strat- 
egies play, the interactive program was altered 
allow the play the game between two 
computer programs rather than between human 
and computer, the original version. this 
way, one program using one type strategy could 
played against program another strategy. 
The each loaded onto different 
interactive terminal and the output one terminal’s 
program was used input the terminal with the 
second player-program. 

this attempt determine better strategy, 
one program was set use only the defensive 
component, and the other, only the aggressive com- 
ponent. The results number games played 
this manner indicate that the aggressive com- 
ponent play significantly better than the de- 
fensive component. analysis the games played 
indicated the reasons for this. The strictly defensive 
player makes assumptions concerning his 
situation while ignoring his own game situation and 
the harm may doing himself blindly 
attacking his opponent. 

The typical human player does not rely only 
one component play, but both makes assumptions 
about his opponent and considers his own situation. 
For this reason, better strategy would probably 


particular game situation. Although the search 
for better strategy play the game Dominoes 
not earth-shaking importance, the potential 
spinoff the techniques used and results obtained 
may value other situations competitive 
nature. 


*For complete description see: Dominoes—A Com- 
puter Simulation Cognitive Processes, Simulation 
and Games, Vol. No. pp. 155-164. 


65 


Wumpus Yob 


Hark!! The weary Wumpus hunter, wan from days 
the Terminal Caverns, exhausted and with all his arrows 
expended groaning Teletype roars sleepy 
Maps litter the floor covered with circles and 
integers. With callused fingers, the immortal Wumpus player 
looks with bloodshot eyes and implores: “How get 
out here?”) 

suspected that the dodecahedron may prove bit 
boring after few thousand games, wrote Wumpus 
extend your pleasure. Some the more mathematical 
minded may have noticed there are lots ways link 


caves with three tunnels apiece. Some these patterns are 


topologically interesting 


Wumpus the same old different settings 


including those your own design. you play the 
different caves, you will notice that the game changes 
difficulty and strategy. Now description the various 
caves Wumpus 


CAVE (Dodecahedron) 
This the same old Wumpus with which are 
familiar. 


(Mobius Strip) 

original vision was topological, here the first 
wonder topology, the Mobius strip. Take strip 
paper, give half-twist and join the ends into loop. The 
result has just one side and one edge (if you disbelieve, take 
pencil and around the thing). 

perceptive player will note that the placement the 
pits influence the game. Two pits placed just right (around 
the games have this) will force detour back around 
the certain cases. Getting around slower than 
Cave but easier search the place. 


CAVE (String Beads) 

See the diagram for this one. Here, placement the pits 
will often make parts the caves inaccessible except 
bat-express. (Can you see why?) Play this cave 
frustrating until you have gone the trouble making 
reference map; otherwise you keep coming back your 
point. (Look the diagram and see how this may 
so. 


(Hex Network) 

This attempt torus (doughnut). you can 
visualise hexagon net like honeycomb tile floor and 
stretch onto doughnut, got it!! The drawing tries 
show this, -but you prefer, think complicated 
molecule some sort. Play this one very similar 
CAVE 


CAVE (Dendrite) 

now, each tunnel leads another cave and only 
one tunnel connects pair caves. This need not 
strict rule and the next two caves variations 
this. The dendrite branching pattern like tree 
plant. the ends the plant are caves 
leading themselves multiple tunnels. This cave 
especially susceptible severance pits and getting stuck 


corners near the wumpus. nice thing that you often 
will know exactly where the Wumpus when you come 
near him. 


CAVE (one way streets) 

This the extreme example all tunnels are one-way. 
You will find that getting about this cava like travel 
Los Angeles much going get the house. 
you overshoot, you must travel all the way around, just like 
missing freeway offramp. 


CAVE (Do Your OWN) 

Draw map caves, each cave with tunnels GOING 
three (exactly three) caves (same different). Then the 
computer will ask you for the numbers the destination 
tunnels for each the caves Wumpus. When you have 
entered, play Wumpus your own caves. Let know 
your favorite ones, and your most frustrating ones!!! 


you are programming fiend, how would you arrange 
Wumpus game with lots caves and tunnels and 
legitimate moves may include changing how the caves 
connect each other?? Send any versions which may 
happen. 


WUMPUS 

Around the PCC center, Howard lives. enjoys 
suggesting “improvements” games and enjoy telling 
him how useless his ideas are. One day, got around 
and came with Wumpus with earthquakes, bat 
migrations and the incredible (don’t let your 
fantasy get away from you now!!). 

Have look the run and see you like it. personal 
opinion that the changes and reshufflings happen too 
often for comfort what you think? 


FINIS 

any case,.Wumpus has spawned versions and 
spread about the computer really nicely. For 
myself, the soul the game the idea and fun 
rather than the program the computer which hosts it. 
feel that all really good games will turn programmers 
enough for them write for their system from the idea 
alone and encourage games writers think carefully the 
art and esthetics their games before writing line 


WUMPUS TAPES, ETC. 
can found at: 
Gregory Yob 
Box 354 
Palo Alto, Calif. 94301 
Paper tapes Wumpus and Wumpus are 
available and cost $5.00 each. 
May your arrows remain straight. Yob. 


Sample listings and cave 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


4 ‘ 
>. 
| 
66 


CAVES 


WUMPU 


Cave | 
(Mobius Strip) 


Cave 2 
(String Beads) 


Cave 3 
(Toroidal Hex Net) 
Cave 4 
(Dendrite) 


HUNT THE WUMPUS 


FEEL DRAFT 
BATS 


SHOOT OR MOVE? 7S 
NO+ OF ROOMS (1-5)? 73 


ROOM #710 
ROOM #711 


OUCH! ARROW GOT 
SAME SET-UP? 
HUNT THE WUMPUS 


I SMELL A WUMPUS! 

1 FEEL A DRAFT 
BATS NEARBY! 

YOU ARE IN ROOM 11 TUNNELS LEAD TO 9 10 


SHOOT MOVE? 


WHERE TO? 79 
ZAP--SUPER BAT SNATCH! ELSEWHEREVILLE FOR YOU! 
eee OOPS! BUMPED A WUMPUS! 


I SMELL A WUMPUS! 
I FEEL A DRAFT 


SHOOT MOVE? 


WHERE TO? 713 


SHOOT MOVE? 
ROOM #712 

ROOM #711 


AHA! YOU GOT THE WUMPUS! HE WAS IN ROOM 11 
HEE HDE HEE - THE WUMPUS"LL GETCHA NEXT TIME!! 


JAN-FEB 1976 


YOU ARE IN ROOM 12 TUNNELS LEAD TO 10 11. 


Cave 5 
(One Way Only) 


Cave 
(Anything You Like) 


ROOM SAMPLE RUN 


the 
the 
They 


Statements 700-1210. 


0003 
0004 
0005 
0006 
0050 
0060 
0070 
0090 
0100 
0110 
0120 
0130 
0140 
0150 
0160 
0170 
0180 
0190 
0210 
o220 
0230 
0240 
0260 
0270 
0280 
0290 
0300 
0310 
0320 
0330 
0340 
0350 
0360 
0370 
0380 
0390 
0400 
0410 
0420 
0430 
0440 
0450 
0460 
0470 
0480 
0500 
0520 
0550 
0560 
0570 
0580 


0600 
0620 
0640 
0650 
0660 
0680 
0690 
0700 
0710 
0720 
0730 
0740 
0750 
0760 
0770 
0780 
0790 
0800 


0610 
0820 
0830 
0840 
0850 


REM: WUMPUS II BY GREGORY YOB REV MAY 1975 

REM? GREGORY YOB PO BOX 354 PALO ALTO» CALIF 94301 
REM? PHONE (415) 326-4039 

REM? MODIFIED FROM HP BASIC VERSION+ NOTE THAT? 
REM! THE EXPRESSION IS REPLACED BY I$¢1381) 
REM: IN THIS VERSION. 

DIM 1$¢6) 


REM- WUMPUS VERSION 

INPUT 
PRINT 

GOSUB 700 

REM-CHOOSE & SET UP CAVE 

DIM 

GOSUB 2530 PART 


DEF 
DEF 
ARRAY ITEMS 
DIM 
DIM 
FOR 
NEXT 
REM-CHECK FOR CROSSOVERS 
FOR 
FOR K=J 
THEN 300 
THEN 210 
NEXT 
NEXT 
REM-SET# ARROWS 
REM-RUN THE GAME 
PRINT “HUNT THE 
REM-HAZARD WARNINGS LOCATION 
GOSUB 1230 
REM-MOVE SHOOT 
GOSUB 1400 
GOTO 
REM=SHOOT 
GOSUB 1550 
F=0 THEN 400 
GOTO 490 
GOSUB 2150 
THEN 380 
F>0 THEN 540 
REM-LOSE 
GOTO 550 
PRINT “HEE HDE HEE THE GETCHA NEXT 
FOR J=1 
NEXT 
PRINT “PLAY AGAIN? 
INPUT 
PRINT 
PRINT SET-UP? 
INPUT 
PRINT 
GOTO 330 
REM-INSTRUCTIONS 
PRINT “WELCOME WUMPUS 
PRINT “THIS VERSION HAS THE SAME RULES ‘HUNT THE 
PRINT YOU NOW HAVE CHOICE CAVES PLAY 
PRINT CAVES EASIER THAN OTHERS- ALL CAVES HAVE 
PRINT “ROOMS AND TUNNELS LEADING FROM ONE ROOM OTHER 
PRINT “THE CAVES 
PRINT DODECAHEDRON THE ROOMS THIS CAVE ARE 


PRINT OBJECT» EACH SIDE FORMING 

PRINT THE ROOMS ARE THE CORNERS THE 

PRINT EACH ROOM HAVING TUNNELS LEADING OTHER 

MOBIUS STRIP THIS CAVE TWO 

PRINT WIDE AND ROOMS AROUND (LIKE 

PRINT YOU WILL NOTICE THERE 

PRINT 


PAGE 


— 
13 


0860 
0870 
0880 
0890 
0900 
0910 
o920 
0930 
0940 
0950 
0960 
0970 
0980 
0990 
1000 
1010 
1020 
1030 
1040 
1050 
1060 
1070 
1080 
1090 
1100 
1110 
1120 
1130 
1140 
1150 
1160 
1170 
1180 
1190 
1200 
1210 
1220 
1230 
1240 
1250 
1260 
1270 
1280 
1290 
1300 
1310 
1320 
1330 
1340 
1350 
1360 
1370 
1380 
1390 
1400 
1410 
1420 
1430 
1440 
1450 
1460 
14706 
1490 
1500 
1510 
1s20 
1530 
1540 
1550 
1560 
1570 
1580 


. 1590 


1600 
1610 
1620 
1630 
1640 
1650 
1670 
1680 
1690 
1700 
1710 
1730 
1740 
1750 
1760 
1770 
1780 
1790 
1800 
1810 
1820 
1830 
1840 
1850 
1860 
1870 
1880 
1890 
1900 
1910 
1920 
1930 
1940 
1950 
1960 
1970 
1980 
1990 
2000 
2010 
2020 
2030 
2040 
2050 
2060 
2070 
2080 
2090 


PRINT 2 STRING OF BEADS FIVE BEADS IN A CIRCLE+” 
PRINT ™ EACH BEAD IS A DIAMOND WITH A VERTICAL™ 

PRINT ™ CROSS-BAR+ THE RIGHT & LEFT CORNERS LEAD” 
PRINT ™ “TO NEIGHBORING BEADS+-C(THIS ONE IS DIFFICULT” 
PRINT “ TO PLAY)?" 

PRINT 

PRINT ™ 3 = HEX NETWORK IMAGINE A HEX TILE FLOOR- TAKE™ 
PRINT ™ A RECTANGLE WITH 20 POINTS (INTERSECTIONS)" 
PRINT ™ INSIDE (4X4)+ JOIN RIGHT & LEFT SIDES TO MAKE A" 
‘PRINT CYLINDER- THEN JOIN TOP & BOTTOM TO’ FORM A” 
PRINT TORUS (DOUGHNUT) 

PRINT HAVE FUN IMAGINING THIS ONE!!” 

PRINT 

PRINT “ CAVES 1-3 ARE REGULAR. IN THE SENSE THAT EACH ROOM” 
PRINT." GOES:TO THREE OTHEER ROOMS & TUNNELS ALLOW TWO-" 
PRINT WAY TRAFFIC+ HERE ARE SOME ‘IRREGULAR 

PRINT 

PRINT “ 4 = DENDRITE WITH, DEGENERACI ES PULL A PLANT FROM” 
PRINT ™ THE GROUND- THE ROOTS & BRANCHES FORM A" 
PRINT ” DENTRITE - IE» THERE ARE NO LOOPING PATHS” 
PRINT ™ DEGENERACY MEANS A) SOME ROOMS CONNECT TO" 
PRINT “ THEMSELVES AND B) SOME ROOMS HAVE MORE THAN” 
PRINT ™ ONE TUNNEL TO THE SAME OTHER ROOM 1E» 12 HAS” 
PRINT ™ TWO TUNNELS TO 13+" 

PRINT 

PRINT" S - ONE WAY LATTICE HERE ALL TUNNELS GO ONE” 
PRINT ™ WAY ONLY» TO RETURNs YOU MUST GO AROUND THE” 
PRINT ™ CAVE (ABOUT S MOVES) 

PRINT 

PRINT “ 6 = ‘ENTER YOUR OWN CAVE THE COMPUTER WILL ASK" 
PRINT “ YOU THE ROOMS NEXT TO EACH ROOM IN THE CAVE+” 
PRINT FOR EXAMPLE:” 

PRINT " ROOM # 1 222304 - YOUR REPLY OF 2» 3.4” 
PRINT “ MEANS ROOM 1 HAS TUNNELS GOING TO ROOMS?!" 
PRINT “ 3 & 

PRINT " HAPPY HUNTING!" 

RETURN 

REM-PRINT LOCATION & HAZARD WARNINGS 

PRINT 


FOR J=2 TO 6 
FOR K=1 TO 3 
IF FHEN 1340 


GOTO J-1 OF 1290213101310 133021330 
NEXT K 
REM-CHOOSE OPTION 
INPUT I$ —— 
RETURN 
PRINT “ERROR | 
IF, J9<1 OR. J9>5 OR INTCJ9) <> ABS(J9I) THEN 1600 
PRINT “ERROR 
REM-SHOOT ARROW 
NEXT 
REM-MOVE WUMPUS 
REM-SEE IF ARROW IS AT L£1] OR LE&23 
HE WAS IN ROOM"3L¢ 2) 
IF A9 <> LC1) THEN 1900 


PRINT “I SMELL A WUMPUS!" 
GOTO 1340 
PRINT “I FEEL A DRAFT" 
GOTO 1340 
NEXT J 
PRINT “YOU ARE IN ROOM "SL(¢125 
PRINT “ TUNNELS LEAD TO 
PRINT 
GOTO 1450 
INPUT Z9 
PRINT ""3 
PRINT 
IF <> "Ss" EN 1520 
PART 
RETURN 
IF Is€it1) <> THEN 1420 
REM-ARROW ROUTINE 
REM-PATH OF ARROW 
DIM PCS) 
INPUT Z9 
PRINT “"3 
PRINT “NO+ OF ROOMS (1-5)? “3 
INPUT 
FOR K=1 TO J9 
PRINT “ROOM #"3 
INPUT PCK) 
PRINT 
INPUT Z9 . 
PRINT ""3 
GOTO 1690 
NEXT K 
A=A~1 
AM=LC1) 
FOR K=1 TO J9 
FOR Ki=1 TO 3 
REM-NO TUNNEL FOR THE ARROW 
A9=SCA9» FNBC 1)) 
GOTO 2000 
NEXT K 
GOSUB 2070 
REM-AMMO CHECK 
IF A>O THEN 1970 
Fe-1 
AI=PC(K) 
IF <> L¢2) THEN 2040 
PRINT “AHA! YOU GOT THE WUMPUS! 
F=1 
PRINT “OUCH! ARROW GOT YOU!"' 
GOTO 1960 
REM-MOVE WUMPUS ROUTINE 
K=FNC( 0) 


PRINT “BATS 

RETURN 
PRINT “SHOOT MOVE? LISTING 

GOTO 1630 
PRINT 

AND AND THEN 1780 
PRINT 

PRINT “MISSED” 

RETURN 

RETURN 

THEN 2140 


PAGE 


2100 
2110 
2120 
2130 
2140 


2150. 


2160 
2170 
2180 
2190 
2200 


- 2210 


2220 
2230 
2250 
2260 


2270. 


2260 
2290 
2300 
2310 
2320 
2330 
2340 


"2350 


2360 
2370 
2380 
2390 
2400 
2410 
2420 
2430 
2440 
2450 
2460 
2470 
2480 
2490 
2500 
2510 
2520 
2530 
2540 
2550 
2560 
2570 
2580 
2590 
2600 
2620 
2630 
2640 
2650 
2660 
2670 
2680 


2690 
2700 


2710 
2720 
2730 
2740 
2750 
2760 
2770 
2780 
2790 
2800 
2810, 
2620 
2630 
2840 
2650 
2860 
2670 


2880 


2690 
2900 
2910 
2920 
2930 
2940 
2950 
2960 
2970 
2960 
2990 
3000 
3010 
3020 
3030 
3040 
3050 
3060 
3070 
3080 
3090 
3100 
3110 
3120 
3130 
3140 
3150 
3160 
3170 
3180 
3190 
3200 
3210 
3220 
3230 
3240 
3250 
3260 
3270 


3290 
3300 
3310 


‘PRINT "CAVE 


“DATA 22 32 202 1s 32 4s 1s 32 7. 


THEN 2140 

PRINT TSK TSK- WUMPUS GOT 


RETURN 
REM- MOVE ROUTINE 
GOTO 2210 
PRINT “ERROR 
INPUT 
PRINT 
PRINT “WHERE TO? 
INPUT 
PRINT 
FOR 
REM-CHECK LEGAL MOVE 
THEN 2350 
NEXT 
GOTO 2210 
REM-CHECK FOR HAZARDS 
REM-WUMPUS 
2430 
PRINT OOPS! BUMPED 
REM-MOVE WUMPUS 
GOSUB 2080 
THEN 2430 
REM-PIT 
RETURN 
REM-BATS 
PRINT BAT SNATCH! ELSEWHEREVILLE FOR YOU!" 
GOTO 2350 
RETURN 
REM-SELECT CAVE 
GOTO 
PRINT “ERROR 
INPUT 
PRINT 


INPUT N 

PRINT 

IF N<0 OR N>6 OR <> ABS(ND THEN 2550 
GOSUB N+l OF 2650+ 2730s 26102 2690+ 29 702 30503130 
RETURN 

REM-DODECAHEDRON 

RESTORE 2590 

DATA 22 528s 1s 32 102 As 122 32 Se 14912406 

DATA Se 1526262172 1s 7948s 102 182829011 
DATA 102122 193211513212 142 202 132152 62 14216 
DATA 150 370800 70 160 16090170 190112 16280 19> 16> 19 
GOSUB 3240 

RETURN 

REM-MOBIUS STRIP 

RESTORE 2750 

DATA 2002230190 1s 1s 32 62 32 607 
DATA 42 528s 528090 62 72 102 72102 1126290128 

DATA 9212s LAs LAs 150 12> 13s 160 16017 
DATA 14s 159 185150 182 190 162175 20s 2s 1 200 1s 18219 
GOSUB 3240 

RETURN 

REM-STRING OF BEADS 

RESTORE 2630 


DATA Ss 728s Ss 608s 62 729282 1021129911012 

DATA 92 10212s 10s 11s 13s 12s 14s 15s 132 15s 16213214216 
GOSUB 3240 

RETURN 

REM-HEX NET on TORUS 

RESTORE 2910 

DATA 62 102 16s 62 72 179 7282 18262921929210220 

DATA 1222 152223011232 12242 52132526014 

DATA 72 162 2028s 16217292172 182 102 182 19262 19220 


RESTORE 2990 his the culprit 


DATA 121s Se 2s 2s 52 32 32 60 62 O07 
DATA 324272 Ss 62 1028292928280 102729211 
DATA 102132142 122 132132115122 12s 112152162 14217018 ( 
DATA 149 192202 152 17s 17s 15s 182 182 162 194 19s 16220220 
GOSUB 3240 
RETURN 
REM-ONE way LATTICE 
RESTORE 3070 ’ 
DATA Ss 1s Ss 62 22 62 72 327282829212 
DATA 529210262102 1157s 115122122 1321629213014 
DATA 102142152112 152 162162172 200132 172 16s 14216019 
DATA 152 194 200 1242 20s 128s 17s Bs 32 18s 32 4219 
GOSUB 3240 
RETURN 
REM- INPUT OWN CAVE. 
FOR J=1 TO 20 
PRINT “ROOM #"3J3 
INPUT SCJs 3) 
FOR K=1 TO 3 
IF S€JsK)>0 AND SCJsK)<21 AND INTCSCJeK) @ABSCSCJoK)? 
PRINT ERRORIII11" 
GOTO 3150 THEN 3210 


REM-INPUT CAVE 
FOR 
READ 
NEXT K 
RETURN 


END . CREATIVE COMPUTING 


|_| 
NEXT 


Another new game from Creative 
version the tried and true Gunner game, 
occasionally called the game. can played 
two three players, one playing oneself (still very 
exciting). The original version was written Mike Forman, 
revisions Lyon and Brian West Morse High 
School, San Diego. 
The game rather straight forward, and generates 
excitement, with great amount vicarious aggression. 
suggested sequence use with WAR3 might be: 
Study the trajectories objects noting: 
Angles Launch 
Velocity 
Effect gravity upon projectiles 
Distance, and its relation velocity and angle 
launch. 
Discuss the observations trajectories objects such 
ball, pebble (small), etc. 
Play WAR3 with the aid the computer. 
those who have played WAR3 develop 


similar game. Maybe, modify WAR3 allow four 
more players. 


Listing and sample 
next page. 


j 2 
ar 


JAN-FEB 1976 


Another new game from Creative 


DR. 


Using DR.Z your computer “interacts” with you true 
Rogerian form, never making value judgment your 
response. 

DR.Z multi-lingual and “professional confidence” 
guaranteed, especially with video display terminal. 
However, you have printer, try employing unique 
language known only you and DR.Z. 

you would prefer employ DR.Z educational 
mode, you might consider the following sequence 
activities. 

Discuss communication, exploring: 

The role spoken language 
The role written language 
Non-verbal language 

facial expressions 

2..posture body 

hand gestures 

Experience session with 

Develop computerizations other “purely human” 

situations. 


Dr. ave over. 


Plotter design William Sun, senior George Washington Sr. 
High School, Denver, CO. (Bill now MIT). 


: ADS 4 
Sy 


T=0 1130 1180 


70 MAT V=ZER 1180 Vi=N1-1 


MAT X=ZER THEN 1270 


100 MAT R=ZER 1210 THEN 1250 
110 DATA 1220 PRINT 
120 PRINT “THIS THE BASIC TWO THREE MAY 1230 PRINT 
190 N=2 THEN 240 650 
200 N=3 THEN 270 
210 PRINT THREE 1320 PRINT “THIS WAR THREE PLAYERS ARE 
1330 PRINT CANNGNS WITH WHICH THEY ATTEMPT EACH™ 
160 PRINT THE PARAMETERS FOR DISTANCES AND MUZZLE VELGCITIES 
“THE COMPUTER WILL KEKP TRACK THE GAME ASD REPORT 
290 FOR J=1 PRINT “DISTANCE FIRED 
PRINT 


Do YG ons? 
390 READ YOU NEED INSTRUCTIONS?N 


400 IF THEN 440 SAMPLE RUN 


410 PRINT “ERRGR--ILLEGAL TRIANGLE+ RE-ENTER RANGES-” 


450 PRINT diagram 1500 

470 PRINT “MUZZLE VELOCITY (FT+/SEC+) OF 

i D q 3 5 


550 FOR B=1 TON 
560 IF THEN 610 
370 PRINT CANNOT REACH “3B 


MUZZLE VELOCITY (FT+/SEC+) SF 3 


610 NEXT B 

FIRING 


720 C=2 
PRINT “PLAYER “$M$" SHOOTING AT™5C 
740 GoTo 890 


FIRING 


730 P(MJ=12 THEN 1280 \ PLAYER 2 SHSSTING AT?1 
‘760 PRINT “PLAYER “343" SHOOTING FIRING ANGLE?79 
770 C PLAYER 2 SHOOTING AT23 YOU GVERSHOT BY 434-333 FEET- 


810 PRINT “ERROR--PLAYERS DESIGNATED ls 20 
760 


830 IFC <> M THEN 860 PLAYER 3 SHOOTING AT?1 


PRINT 
900 INPUT 
910 THEN 940 
920 IF A3>180 THEN 940 2 PLAYER 2° SHOCTING 
980 PRINT “ERROR--FIRED WRONG WAYs LOSE SHOT.” 
1040 THEN 1080 FIRING 


1070 IF D>RCM+C} THEN 1160 PLAYER FS SHOOTING AT?1 


GAME 

1180 


ae 


q 

| 

| 

| 

4 


PRINT TYPE MORE THAN ONE TIRE 
INPUT 

PRINT “WHAT DID YOU SAY YOUR NAME WAS 

INPUT 

110. PRINT 

120 PRINT 

130 THEN 720 
150 THEN 140 
160 THEN 140 

200 IF Z <> 1 THEN 220 
210 420 

220 IF Z <> 2 THEN 240 
459 

250 

270 510 

280 IF Z <> 5 THEY 3500 
290 540 

570 

350 630 

690 

410 690 

420 PRINT “HAVE YOU FELT 

440 690 

460 PRINT 

470 690 

480 PRINT YOUR FRIENDS FIND THIS 

500 690 

510 PRINT "Do YOU FEEL COMFORTABLE WITH THIS 

530 690 

560 690 

570 PRINT “WHY THINK YSU THIS 

690 

600 PRINT “HAVE YOU TALKED ANYONE ABOUT 

610 PRINT 

630 PRINT “WHY ARE YOU HERE?” 

640 PRINT 

650 690 

660 PRINT “ARE YOU SATISFIED WITH THE WAY YOUR IDEAS ARE 

680 690 

690 LET 

700 LET 

710 100 

THINK YOU ARE MAKING GREAT ATTEMPT SOLVE 

740 PRINT “SESSION ANY 

750 PRINT WOULD YOU MAKE ANOTHER APPOINTMENT WITH 
760 SOMETIME THE NEXT FEW DATE WOULD 
770 «PRINT “PREFER?” 

INPUT 

790 PRINT “THAT WILL 

800 PRINT ENJCYED COMMUNICATING WITH 

810 PRINT “HAVE NICE 

820 

830 PRINT 

840 

850 END 


LISTING 


your has 


You able 


JAN-FEB 1976 


Do YOUR FRIENDS. FIND THIS ACCEPTABLE? 


RUN 


WHAT YOUR NAME? AND TELL ABOUT 


HOWEVER» TYPE MORE THAN ONE LINE- TIRE 
AND DGVXFCSDZX BHVBN JMNHB 


WHAT DID YOU SAY YOUR NAME WAS AGAIN? 
SAMPLE 


YOU FEEL TODAY? 


WHY ARE YOU HERE? 


ARE YOU SATISFIED WITH THE WAY YOUR IDEAS ARE 


HAVE YOU FELT THIS WAY LONG? 


DON'Ts YOU KNOWs THAT THIS THING IS» YoU 


WHY ARE YOU HERE? 


KNGWs IT IS THE THING YOU KNOW. 


HAVE YOU FELT THIS WAY LONG? 


YOU 


YOU THINK THIS LIGHT YOUR INTERESTS? 


YOU KNOWs THIS IS COMMUNICATION» YOU KNOW- 


WHY ARE YOU HERE? 


YOU 


?YA>s WE ALL COMMUNICATEs YoU KNOW. 


HAVE TALKED ABOUT THIS? 


DS YOU THINK THAT THIS IS A NORMAL FEELING? 


THINK YOU ARE MAKING GREAT ATTEMPT SOLVE 
AND SEE NEED CONTINUE THIS 

ANY 

HOMEREE WOULD YOU MAKE ANOTHER APPOINTMENT WITH COMPUTER 
FOR THE NEXT FEW DATE WOULD 
PREFER? 

THAT WILL 

ENJGYED COMMUNICATING WITH 

HAVE NICE 


LIST 
é 
| 
PAGE 


199 
229 
239 
259 
289 
319 


PRINT 


Concen- 
tration 


Paul Calter 
Vermont Technical College 


DIM 
READ 
LET 
NEXT 
AND DEAL 
LET 
NEXT 
LET 
LET 
NEXT Z 
START PLAY 
PRINT "FIRST CARD"; 
PRINT "SECOND CARD"; 
LET Ge 2 
PRINT PICK THE SAME 
GOTO 499 
PRINT 
NEXT 
PRINT 
Pp 


PROGRAM LISTiNG 


THE DECK 


THEN 


2 


PRINT 
PRINT 
GOTO 

LET 

LET 


NEXT V 


* THE RESILTS 


LET Si = S/CNZ4) 


PRINT 


GOTO 774 : 

PRIVT “FAIR.” 

779 

PRINT "GOOD." 

GOTO 779 

PRINT “FANTASTIC! ! ! 
GOTO 779 

© « MIST YAVE CHEATED!" 


PRINT 
PRINT 
PRINT 
PRINT 
PRINT HAVE MATCHED THAT 

GOTO 


THEN 269 


BACK 


How good are your personal memory banks? Find out 
playing this computer version the well-known card 
game, CONCENTRATION. 

deck cards shuffled, and dealt face 
down the table. The player turns over any two cards 
pleases. they are pair, they are removed from play, the 
player scores one point, and picks again. they are not 
pair, the player tries memorize the cards and their 
location for future picks, and returns them face down 
the table the 

this computer version, submitted James Vander- 
beek Vermont Technical College, the computer 
the cards positions one fifty-two. There only one 
player (the computer does not pick cards this version) 
who enters the numbers the positions chosen. The 
computer then tells you which cards you have picked. 
they are pair, removes them from play, and your score 
incremented: not, the identity the cards 
overprinted, and you have chance pick again. 

After total picks, the play ends and your score 
printed, along with the candid 
your ability. 

Some possible expansions this program are: 

\ 

Play against the computer where the computer 

picks its pairs completely random, from the 

cards remaining the 

Play against the computer where the computer 

blessed with perfect memory all cards 

previously overturned. 

Play against the computer where the computer 

usually remembers the cards previously shown, but 

sometimes has “lapses” memory. (How would 

you program that?) This version would probably 
provide the most interesting play. 

Play against another person, using the same termi- 

nal. 


| 


SAMPLE RUN 
SECOND CARD? 


FIRST CARD? 
SECOND CARD? 


FIRST 
SECOND CARD? 
MATCH --JD 
FIRST 
SECOND CARD? 


HAVE HAD PICKS. 


FIRST 
SECOND CARD? 


FIRST CARD? 

SECOND C4RD? 

YOUR SCORE NOW HAD PICKS. 

SECOND CARD? 


FIRST CARD? 
SECOND CARD? 


FIRST CARD? 

SECOND CARD? 

YOUR SCORE NOW HAVE HAD 
FIRST CARD? 

SECOND CARD? 


DATA" s "BD" "7D" s"SD"*s "9D" s "19D" s "ID's "ID's "XD 


END 


CARD? 
SECOND CARD? 
OF OSES OHO HEHE 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


} 
ee q 
| 
376 
386 
42” 
439 
444 | 
454 
444 
479 
49% 
519 
529 
544 
559 
549 
579 
539 
599 
419 
619 
629 
4639 
639 
694 
799 
719 
729 : 
739 
749 
: 75% 
; 764i 
794 
349 
319 
329 
339 
349 
859 
349 
390 
994 
919 


Another new game from Creative 


OAD 


ACK 


Author: Unknown 
Modified by: Bill Cotter, Pittsfield, Mass. 
Description: You are the driver race car 
the notorious NY: Route 20. have drive 
miles with gallon gas, while keeping alert for 
changes the road conditions, other cars, etc. 


the start you pick your car and course. During 
the race you control braking and acceleration. 


JAN-FEB 1976 


Watch out for passing another car! you try 
the same speed he’s going, going 
meet Greyhound bus head-on! 


Suggestions: The game tough win. usually 


wipe out curve run out gas. You might 


want increase your MPG look line 
870. 


Good luck! 


Listing run next page. 


660 


1310 LET D=INT(25+35*RND(X)) 
1320 LET 
THE FIRST ANNUAL PITISFIELD-TO-ALBANY ROAD 
PRINT DRIVING DOWN RT. 20, TRYING WIN THE RACE AND" 
PRINT HAVE YOUR CHOICE (1) VWs (2) 283 
1380 PRINT “EXCELLENT BUT 
1390. PRINT 
THE BETTER THE CAR THE MORE GAS USES." RAN OUT GAS 
460 PRINT 
STING 1470 PRINT 
PRINT CAR NUMBER. NEW CAR 1480 PRINT MADE (LUCKY) 


RINT - 
TF N2=1 THEN 350 


WHICH COURSE YOU WANT RACE 
PRINT NUMBER CONSISTS MOSTLY TURNS AND TWISTS." 
1560 PRINT "YOU WANT TRY AGAIN, RIGHT 


IF C2 >5 THEN 410 

GO TO 430 

py “INVALID COURSE NUMBER. NEW CHOICE “¢ 

0 TO 360 

THEN 
RINT “YOUR STATUS WILL BE SHOWN EACH 10 SECONDS, 

PRINT "CHECK YOU WILL BE ASKED FOR A NEW RATE OF GAS. 

PRINT “+10 IS HARD ACCELERATION, AND -10 IS HARD BRAKING. 
PRINT “IN BETWEEN IS ALLOWABLE.* 

FOR I=! TO Cl 

READ B,M,S 

LET B=B/10 

NEXT I 

LET Al=.5 

LET M1=0 


SAMPLE 
LET RUN 
LET 


PRINT , 

LET 

LET T=0 

LE 

PRINT “PRESENT VELOCITY NO. GALLONS 


PRINT "NO. OF MILES = "sM1s" TIME PASSED = “sTs" SECONDS" 


IF Mi>=5 THEN 1460 
PRINT “WHAT IS YOUR NEW RATE OF GAS “3% 
INPUT G 


670IF G<-10 THEN 700 


940 Q>0 THEN 1340 ACCELERATION WHAT YOUR NEW RATE GAS 710 

950 PRINT "CLEAR AND 

960 PRINT ROAD CONDITIONS AHEAD 1000 FEET 

990 LET NO. MILES TIME PASSED SECONDS 

1000 V>H THEN 1500 WHAT YOUR NEW RATE GAS 

1010 PRINT “THROUGH CURVE" 

1020 PRINT ROAD CONDITIONS PASSED MPH 

1030 LET 

1050 LET NO. MILES TIME PASSED SECONDS 

1060 THEN 1100 WHAT YOUR NEW RATE GAS 

1070 PRINT “VEHICLE FEET AHEAD" 

1080 PRINV ROAD CONDITIONS AHEAD 1000 FEET 

1090 GO TO 620 

WHA 

1180 PRINT "VEHICLE BEING PASSED WHAT YOUR NEW RATE GAS 

1190 LET 

1200 PRINT BUS OTHER LANE ROAD CONDITIONS CURVE AHEAD 

1210 PRINT “DOING 

1220 PRINT PRESENT VELOCITY NO. GALLONS 

=V4+D 

1260 PRINT ROAD CONDITIONS TERRIBLE For 

1270 ad a IS YOUR~FUNERAL BEING HELD 2* 39 WAS THE SPEED THROUGH THE CURVE 

1280 1560 


IF G>10 THEN 700 

GO TO 720 

PRINT “NOT VALID. NEW RATE “$8 
GO TO 660 

IF G<9 THEN 780 

LET 2=Z+1 

IF Z>4 THEN 760 

GO TO 790 

PRINT “YOUR ENGINE BLEW. YOU GOT HIT BY A PISTON.® 
GO TO 1270 

LET Z=0 

LET V=INT(B*G-M*V+V) 

LET T=T+10 

PRINT 

PRINT "ROAD CONDITIONS #"% 


IF V>O THEN 850 

LET V=0 

LET Ml=M1+V/460 

IF G<O THEN 890 

LET Al=A1-(G#S) 75000 
IF Al<O THEN 1380 

IF RI=1 THEN 1050 

IF Qi=! THEN 980 


490 
VEL MILES WITH GALLONS 
RATE 


A RATE OF 
“, #10 IS HARD ACCELERATION, AND =10 Is HARD BRAKING. ANY NUMBER 
IN BETWEEN IS ALLOWABLE. ; 
PRESENT VELOCITY = O NO. OF GALLONS = 5 
NO. OF MILES = © TIME PASSED = 0 SECONDS 
WHAT IS YOUR NEW RATE OF Gas 210 
ROAD CONDITIONS * WARNING®. CURVE AHEAD 
PRESENT VELOCITY = 45 NO. OF GALLONS = .48 
NO. OF MILES = 0978261 TIME PASSED = 10 SECONDS 


1290 PRINT “VEHICLE AHEAD 1000 FEET* 


1490 GO TO 1560 
1500 PRINT “ARE TERRIBLE* ' 
1510 LET HeH-5*C! 


1580 INPUT V 

1590 IF V=2 THEN 1620 
1600 N2=1 

1610 GO TO 1640 

1620 PRINT “CHICKEN® 
1630,GO TO 1700 

1640 RESTORE 

1650 GO TO 220 

1660 DATA 45,.53,10 
1670 DATA 60,.5,13 
1680 DATA 70,.41,15 
1690 DATA 80,.39,18 
1700 END 


ANY NUMBER* 


WELCOME THE FIRST ANNUAL ROAD RALLY. 
DRIVING DOWN RT. 20, TRYING WIN THE RACE AND 
STAY ALIVE THE BARGAIN. GOOD LUCK!! 


YOU HAVE YOUR CHOICE OFs (1) A VWs (2) 283 NOVAS 
(3) Z-288 OR (4) FERKARI 


CHOOSE THE CAR YOU WANT BY THE NUMBER IN FRONT OF IT. 
aiiat cat THE BETTER THE CAR THE MORE GAS IT USES. 
AR ?1 


YOU NOW CHOOSE WHICH COURSE YOU WANT TO RACE ON. 

THE EASIEST COURSE IS NUMBER 1, AND IS THE STRAIGHTEST 
ROUTE. NUMBER 5 CONSISTS MOSTLY OF TURNS AND TWISTS. 
WHICH COURSE DO YOU WANT (1 TO 5) 22 


YOU WILL NEED TRAVEL MILES WITH GALLONS GAS 


YOUR STATUS WILL SHOWN EACH SECONDS. AFTER STATUS 
CHECK YOU WILL ASKED FOR NEW RATE 


WHAT IS YOUR NEW RATE OF GAS 22 
‘ROAD CONDITIONS THROUGH CURVE 


PRESENT VELOCITY 
NO. MILES 


30 NO. OF GALLONS = 
«1630435 TIME PASSED = 
WHAT IS YOUR NEW RATE OF GAS 28 


ROAD CONDITIONS *CLEAR AND STRAIGHT 


SECONDS 


50 WAS YOUR SPEED. BY THE WAY WHERE IS YOUR FUNERAL BEING HELD ? 


PAGE 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


100 
110 
120 
130 | 
140 
150 
160 
170 
180 
190 
200 
210 
220 | 
230 
240 
250 
260 
270 
280 
290 
300 
320 
330 
340 
350 
360 
370 
380 
390 
400 
410 
420 
430 
440 
450 
460 
470 
480 
490 
500 
510 
520 
530 
540 
550 
560 
580 
590 
600 
610 
620 
630 
640 
650 
: 
680 
690 
700 
710 
720 
730 
740 
750 
760 
770 
780 
790 7 
800 
810 
820 
830 
840 
850 
860 
870 
880 
890 
900 


‘ 


new game from Creative 


reviewed 
Peter Olivieri 
Boston College 


You don’t have have connections connect 
with this program. It’s the old childhood favorite 
“connect the dots.” The objective, however, 
not draw picture connecting the dots, but 
rather carve out squares “real estate” with 
the computer able adversary. The player who 
connects the two dots which complete square 
gets ownership that square. addition, the 
player gets the added bonus moving once more. 
This can quite advantageous certain situa- 
board. 

The instructions (see REM statements 
gram) are not clear they might be. When you 
wish connect two dots you must type the 
coordinates (row, column) the empty space be- 
tween the dots. However, identifying what the 
coordinates are, you must count the “dots” the 
grid also. Lest this equally confusing, sample 
the grid follows complete with identification 
each coordinate where line may drawn. 


games that played, the same moves could 
replicated succeeding game. Thus, once 
you discover winning game, you cannot lose (this 
may function the particular random num- 
ber generator use). find interesting 
note that the computer mirrors the move 
far possible. You may also find that the 
game moves rather slowly, especially for the first 
three four moves. patient! Once squares be- 
gin fall, the games moves swiftly its con- 

There are some modifications that you may wish 
consider you are going adopt this program 
regular use. addition the REM 
statements the program, would suggest: 

Modifying the program that the grid 
printed after both players have moved (rather than 
each time move made); 

Modifying the program that once player 
had ownership majority the squares, the 
game would end rather than proceed its in- 
evitable conclusion; and 

Modify the program that the ini- 
tials appear each square captures. 

interesting problem developed the running 
‘of this program that you should aware of. One 


particular sequence moves resulted “hangup”. 


the execution the program. This may the 
result programming error, typing error some- 
where along the line, system problem, what- 


was written Chuck 
Lund, St. Public Schools, MN. 


JAN-FEB 1976 


75 


Another new game from Creative 


Author: Unknown 
Modified by: Cotter, Pittsfield, Mass. 
Language: BASIC (Honeywell 600/6000) 


Description: CHASE puts you maze made 


high-voltage fences and posts. This itself isn’t 
too unpleasant but there’re also the five, interceptor 


robots bent just one thing—your destruction. 


these robots touch you... that’s the end the 
game (and you!). There’s one hope—make the robots 
hit the maze, each other (they’re like people— 
sometimes they’d rather alone). you destroy 


the next page. 


ever. few spent little time debugging, 


but avail. any case, five runs using the 

following sequence moves resulted average 

execution time (until interrupt) CPU seconds. 
Your moves: 


sample run game (in this instance, the 
player being triumphant) follows. While the game 
may quickly lose its interest all but those with 
nothing else do, the program itself well worth 
examining. Creating the flowcharts and source state- 
ments for this game would worthwhile en- 
deavor, particularly project programming 
course. Furthermore, even the process tracing 
through the existing source program discover 
the game’s algorithm would worthwhile ex- 
ercise for the knowledgeable programmer. 


page over. 


100 REM CHASE YOU ARE WITHIN THE WALLS HIGH VOLTAGE MAZE 
110 REM UNKNOWN THERE ARE FIVE SECURITY MACHINES TRYING DESTROY YOU 
120 REM MODIFIED RUN HONEYWELL 600/6000 BILL COTTER YOU ARE THE THE INTERCEPTORS ARE THE 
130 PRINT*YOU ARE WITHIN THE WALLS OF A HIGH VOLTAGE MAZE" THE AREAS MARKED “X% ARE HIGH VOLTAGE 
140 PRINT“THERE ARE FIVE SECURITY MACHINES TRYING TO DESTROY YOU" YOUR ONLY CHANCE FOR SURVIVAL IS TO MANUVER EACH 
150 ARE THE THE INTERCEPTORS ARE THE INTERCEPTOR INTO GOOD LUCK 
160 AREAS MARKED ARE HIGH MOVES 
170 ONLY CHANCE FOR SURVIVAL MANUVER 
250 X=5 THEN 280 
1 
450 LET I>20 THEN 450 
460 ACH,I)=ASC(X) THEN 440 
500 GOSUB 440 
520 GOSUB 440 
530 LET YOU HAVE DESTROYED ALL YOUR OPPONENTS-THE GAME YOURS 
540 GOSUB 440 
560 GOSUB 
580 GOSUB 440 
670 
680 NEXT 
700 LET 
730 LET 800 
750 LET 800 
840 LET W=Y 
850 LET X=SGN(J-X)\LET Y=SGN(K-Y) 
920 PRINT YOU HAVE BEEN DESTROYED LUCKY COMPUTER 
950 LET L=X\LET 
1000 LET Y=S\GOSUB 830 have been 
=, = 
1040 THEN 1060 YOU HAVE DESTROYED LUCKY COMPUTER 
1050 GOTO 630 
1060 THEN 1080 
1070 GOTO 630 


1080 IF A(P,Q)=ASC(X) THEN 1100 
1090 GOTO 630 
1100 IF ACR,S)=ASC(X) THEN 1120 


1110 GOTO 630 

1120 IF ACT,U)=ASC(X) THEN.1140 . 

‘1130 GOTO ‘630 

1140 PRINT*YOU HAVE DESTROYED ALL YOUR OPPO'ENTS--THE GAME IS YOURS" 
1150 GO TO 1180 a 

1160 PRINT“YOU TOUCHED THE FENCE 

1170 PRINT ZAP YOUCRE DEAD!!!" 


1180 PRINT “ANOTHER GAME (YES OR NO)*"¢ 
1190 INPUT NOS 

1200 IF N9$<>"YES*® THEN 1220 

1210 GO TO 210 

1220 END 


ready 7 
* PAGE 16 CREATIVE COMPUTING 


1 PRINT"THIS PROGRAM WIIL PLAY CONNFCT THE DOTS WITH You." 

2 PRINT "THE GAME 1S PLAYED ON A & X & ARRAY, WHEN" 

3 PRINT"YOU WANT TO MAKE A MOVE YOU MUST TYPF IN" 

PRINT’ THE COORDINATES OF THE SPAGF BETWEEN” THE TWO DOTS You" 
5 PRINT" WISH TO CONNECT. ENTER EACH OF YOUR MOVFS BY TYPING" 
6 PRINT" THE ROW NUMBER, A COMMA AND THEN THE CO!UMN NUMBER," 
7 PRINT'THE UPPER LEFT HAND CORNER OF THE ARRAY IS 1,3." 

& PRINT"HERE WE GO." 

20 DIM A(12, 32) 

60 IF R/2=INTC(R/2) THEN 100 \ 

70 IF C/2=INT(C/2) THEN 100 LISTING 

80 A(R,C)=-50 

90 GO TO 110 


100 A(R,C)=0 
110 NEXT C 


, 120 NEXT R 


130 IF V=1 THEN 209 

200 GO SUB 1090 

210 PRINT"YOUR MOVE";7 

220 INPUT X,Y 

230 IF X=INT(X/1) THEN 260 
240 PRINT" TYPING ERROR" 

250 GO TO 210 

260 IF°(X-1)*(X-7)>0 THEN 2 40 
265 X=X+2 

270 IF (Y¥-1)#(Y-7)>0 THEN 2 40 
272 Y=¥+2 


290 IF ACX,Y)<>0 THEN 2 40 
300 A(X, Y)#50 

310 IF X/2=INT(X/2) THEN 380 
320 IF ACX-2,Y)*A(X-1, ¥#1)+A(X-1, Y-1)<>150 THEN 
330 P=1 

340 ACX-1,Y)=1 


you 
how make the 


grid 
Smaller 


1050 IF ACR, 
1060 PRINT" 


C)<>0 THEN 1080 


". 


1970 GO TO 1240 


1080 IF ACR, 


1090 PRINT" . 


1100 
1110 ACR, 
1140 ACR, 
1150 PRINT" 


C)<>-50 THEN 1110 
". 

240 

C)<>-1 THEN 1140 
c 

170 

C)<>1 THEN 1200 

H 


1170 D=D+A(R,C) 


1180 E=E+1 


1190 GO TO 1240 
1200 IF R/2=INTCR/2) THEN 1230 


1210 PRINT" 
1220 GO TO 1 
1230 PRINT " 
1240 NEXT C 
1245 PRINT 

1250 NEXT R 


240 


1260 IF E>=9 THEN 1280 GRID 


1270 RETURN 


1290 PRINT "I WON" 
1300 GO TO 930 


1400 END for each 


THEN 1310 


move 


Here's sample 


350 


350 IF ACX42, Y)+AC X41, Y#1)+A(X#1, Y-1)<>150 THEN 440 
360 A(X+1,Y)=1 

370 GO TO 200 : 

380 IF ACX, ¥-2)*ACX#1, Y-1)+#A(X-1, Y-1)<>150 THFN 410 


430 200 

450 SUB 1000 

460 MOVE" 

480 FOR C=4 STEP 

490 THEN 689 
500 

510 THEN 550 

520 

540 LET 

560 

570 THEN 450 
580 

590 THEN 630 

600 A(R,C-1)=50 

620 

630 THEN 450 

640 

660 

670 450 

680 NEXT 

690 NEXT 

692 THEN 730 

700 THEN 730 

710 

712 THEN 870 

720 200 

730 FOR R=3 

750 THEN 850 

760 THEN 850 

780 THEN 830 

790 THEN 850 
800 THEN 850 
810 

200 

850 NEXT 

860 NEXT 

862 E>1 THEN 700 

870 

880 

882 C/2=INT(C/2) THEN 900 

883 870 

885 C/2<>INT(C/2) THEN 900 

900 THEN 870 

910 

930 YOU WANT PLAY AGAIN(TYPE FOR YES FOR NO)"; 
940 INPUT 

950 B=1 THEN 

960 STOP 

1000 

1010 D=0 

1020 E=0 

1030 FOR R=3 

1040 FOR C=3 


1976 


(2,1) (2,3) (2,5) (2,7) 
(4,1) (4,3) (4,5) (4,7) 
(6,3) (6,5) (6,7) 


SAMPLE RUN 


THIS PROGPAM PLAY CONNECT THE 


THE UPPER LEFT HAND CORNER OF Ti 


. . . 


. . . 


YOUR 


yo 


PAGE 


THE 1,1, 


: 


: : 
. sg 3 : 
uy nove’ 
= 
MOVE 


. 
. 
8, 
MY Nowe 33 


COMPUTER GAMES 


LIBRARY 


Four sets books covering major topics 
computer literacy. 


101 BASIC Computer Games- Ahl 

anthology games and simulations- from 
Acey-Deucey Yahtzee, all the BASIC 
language. Contains complete listing and sam- 
ple run plus descriptive write- 
up. Large Format! 256 pp. $7.50 


What After You Hit Return- Bob Al- 
brecht 
Another collection games and simulations- 


all BASIC- including number guessing games, 


word games, hide-and-seek games, pattern 
games, board games, business and social science 
simulations and science fiction games. Large 
format. 158 pp. $6.95 


Fun And Games With The Computer- Ted Sage 
Teaches flow charting and 
computer programming (in BASIC) the con- 
text well-known games chance and stra- 
tegy. 351 pp. $5.95 


HAND CALCULATORS 


Games, Tricks and Puzzles For Hand Cal- 
culator- Wally Judd 

This book necessity for anyone who owns 
intends buy hand calculator, from the 
most sophisticated (the HP65 for example) 
the basic “four banger”. 110 pp. $2.95 


The Calculating Book- Jim Rogers 

Discover where you can buy gas during the 

oil crisis. anthology games, puzzles, 
puns, magic tricks and math problems that 
performed solved with the pocket 
calculator. 125 pp. $2.95 


150 Problems Crypt-Arithmetic- Maxey 
Brooke 

More grist for the calculator. problems 
which letters are substituted for numbers. Ex- 
amine the number relations between the groups 
symbols and solve the problem. pp. $1.25 


Advanced Applications For Pocket Calcula- 
tors- Jack Gilbert 

This book shows what you can with your 
calculator after you balance your checkbook. 
the calculator not used, and this book 
shows you how use it- step-by-step- regard- 
less type. Explores all functions all ex- 
isting calculators, and all scientific and 
ness applications. 304 pp. $5.95 


COMPUTERS SOCIETY 


COMPUTERS MATH 


Teaches problem solving 


Problem Solving With The Computer- Ted, Sage 
chart and 


computer programming (in BASIC) the 
context the traditional junior/senior high 


school curriculum precalculus math. 244 pp.. $4.95 


Problems For Computer Solution- Gruen- 
berger Jaffray 

business, social science and mathematics. 


Oriented toward the 
401 pp. 


$7.25 


Computer Likes Me- Bob Albrecht 
This workbook introduces the BASIC com- 


puter language young old. The teaching 


examples are drawn from population prob- 
lems and demographic data. Large format. 
pp. $2.19 


Electric Media- Les Brown and Sema Marks 
How and computers affect individuals and 
society. Cable TV, air public domain, 
popular and distorted views the computer 
speed and.storage capacities computers, com- 


municating with computers, artificial intelligence 


how computers learn, creative computers. Guest 
spots Buzz Aldrin, Dick Cavett and Marshall 
McLuhan. 168 pp. $4.95 


Freedom’s Edge- Milton Wessel 
The computer threat society. The author, 
attorney, shows some the ways which 
the computer changing our lives- soon will 
be. Discusses the data bank, point-of-sale mar- 
keting and free competition, computer related 
crime, controlling the computer, etc. 137 pp. 

$4.95 
Computer Lib/Dream Machine- Ted Nelson 
This book devoted the premise that ever- 
ybody should understand computers: 
blithe manner the author covers interactive sy- 
stems, terminals, computer languages, data 
structures, binary patterns, computer architec- 
ture, minicomputers, big computers, micropro- 
cessors, simulation, military uses computers, 
computer companies, and much, much more. 
Large format. 127 pp. $7.00 


Computers Society- Donald Spencer 

How can the computer help the Businessman, 
artist, sports announcer? This book examines 
wide range date applications the 
computer medicine, engineering, transport- 
ation, business, the arts, education, law, pro- 


cess control and many other 208 pp. $4.95 


Please send the following books: THE CREATIVE COMPUTING LIBRARY 


PLEASANT STREET NEWBURYPORT, MASS. 01950 
Name 
Street 
City 
Payment enclosed State Zip 
Bill ($1.00 charge) Total 


COMPUTING 


Reviews 


Editor: Peter 


Reviews 
Kugel, School Management, 
Boston College, Chestnut Hill, 
02167. 

Readers: 
reviewer? Write the Reviews 


Want 


Editor directly. Publishers: 
send materials for review 
the Reviews Editor. 


Fun and Games with the Computer. Edwin Sage. 351 
pages, $5.95, Entelek, Pleasant Street, Newburyport, 
1975. 

The author proposes teach computer programming, 
using the BASIC language, through games. The reader 
will have mastered the fundamentals programming and 
will have learned one computer language, BASIC, all 
suggestions for programming and exercises are worked out. 

The book arranged chapters, each carefully 
explaining the rules the game programmed, 
flowchart the procedure for playing the game followed 
the BASIC program. The latter half each chapter 
deals with improving the program, adding ‘personality’ and 
checks ensure the rules are followed the computer’s 
opponent. the games become more complicated, ranging 
from number guessing Blackjack, the programming 
and language requirements, thus the end the book, 
the computer user has good feel for the capabilities 
the BASIC language. 

Although the author requires interactive computer 
system, the book does not, require any specific system. 
Exercises Chapter 1,and reminders throughout the book, 
direct the reader inquire into the local systems require- 
ments for running the BASIC language. 

The book, the author suggests, could used 
supplementary text for course involving gaming. 

The book recommended for those involved teaching 
the BASIC language anyone wanting learn the BASIC 
language. One ends with small library interesting 
games which used for demonstration purposes, 
the computer system used does not have such games 
present. 

John Jackobs 
(Available from College 
Creative Computing Library.) Cedar Rapids, Iowa 


JAN-FEB 1976 


the companion volume described below. 


101 BASIC Computer Games, (Ed.),' 249 pp., 
$7.50. Digital Equipment Corp., Maynard, MA. 1974. 
(Available from Creative Computing Library. See ad.) 

book, BASIC Computer Games 
contains brief descriptions, BASIC listings and runnings 
101 The programs were collected from great 
variety sources and range from simple picture-printing 
routines involved simulation games. intended, 
BASIC Computer Games provides stimulation and 
motivation intermediate level programmers. 

This inch book clearly and conversationally 
written with legible reproductions program listings. 
junior high school students had difficulty reading the 
descriptions preceding the game programs. Interspersed 
throughout the text are many clever cartoon sketches. Other 
than the use the word, “varied”, impossible 
characterize the games included. Mathematical games, 
simulation games, card games, and sports games are all 
represented. Titles range from the familiar (NIM, POKER, 
BASEBL, LIFE) the surprising (ANIMAL, MUGWMP, 
SPACWR, ZOOP). The level the programming uneven 
and variety versions BASIC used. students 
delighted the original” and debugging. Often 
the latter operation consisted translating the program into 
one our dialects BASIC (H-P IBM 370). This 
translation process itself proved interesting and 
simulating exercise. 

101 BASIC Computer Games valuable resource 
book for teachers and students BASIC. Its. utilization 
will depend the course objectives and your teaching 
ideas for students who have already gained some fluency 
BASIC. Additional project ideas and exercises are contained 


Patrick Corry 
Irvington High 
Irvington, New York 


Understanding Mathematics and Logic Using BASIC 
Computer Games, David Ahl, pp, $1.50. Digital Equip- 
ment Corp., Maynard, MA. 1974. 

This book extends and analyzes many strategies and 
ideas involved the games contained 101 BASIC Com- 
puter Games. this extension, the author discusses logical 
strategies, gives exercises, and suggests projects related 
some the 101 games. There brief but illuminating 
introduction which includes some thoughts about the use 
teams and games teaching tools. The use mathe- 
matical logic games discussed with several examples. 
The exposition clear and brief and ‘is intelligible 
high school student. The exercises and project suggestions 
will especially useful those teachers who wish use 
101 BASIC Computer Games source for computer 
literacy course. All teachers BASIC programming should 
find this volume useful source ideas for discussion 
and individual projects. 

Patrick Corry 
Irvington High School 
Irvington, New York 


What After You Hit Return, 157 pp., $6.95. People’s 
Computer Co./Hewlett-Packard, Menlo Park, CA. 1975. 
(Available from Creative Computing Library. See ad.) 

This interesting and timely book. all levels rep- 
resents melding diverse, even polarized elements. once 
potpourri games, activity dating back the roots 
man, and catalog creative ways use,man’s most 
modern and sophisticated tool, the computer. The contents 


range from old number games like NIM, which originated 
ancient China, STTR1, simulation adapted from mod- 
ern science fiction television series. The computer version 
NIM (and many the other games) merely adaptation 
age-old diversion; may enjoyed equally 
well without the use computer. Games such 
the other hand, would never have been possible without 
the speed and computational abilities modern computers. 
(In fact, STTR1 not only requires compuier played; 
includes computer integral part the game.) 

The publishing this book represents combined effort. 
The computer games and simulations were contributed 
variety people, from mathematicians businessmen, from 
students professors, and from computer phreaks home- 
makers. Indeed, the book was made possible through the 
joint cooperation the People’s Computer Company, 
store-front, non-profit, educational group that publishes 
funky newspaper, and Hewlett-Packard Corporation, more 
traditional company that manufactures time-sharing com- 
puters, among other things. This, itself, significant. 

short, What After You Hit Return destined 
become one those books... conspicuous—one 
those books that too big fit the shelf, you find 
lying about table; eclectic—one those new, soft- 
cover newsprint catalogs that crammed the margins 
with interesting tidbits and graphics; curiosity—one 
those books you feel compelled pick up, just see what 
inside; and most important, educational resource— 
one those books that will help you find, obtain, “get 
into” new materials for the enrichment learning. 


Bob Kahn 
Lawrence Hall Science 
University California, Berkeley 


Game Playing With Computers, Donald Spencer, 
$12.95. Spartan Books, New York, 1968. 

This unusual book, completely devoted computerized 
game playing, introduces more than games, puzzles and 
mathematical recreations that may programmed for 
digital computer. 

Over complete programs are presented, most which 
have never before appeared computer Each 
the programs includes description the game, flowchart, 
program written FORTRAN, BASIC, description 
how the program works, and output produced the program, 
addition in-depth analysis over twenty different 
types magic squares and how they may generated 
computer, the book features .complete programs for 
prime numbers, Sieve pick-a-number, 
blackjack, binary card games, the counterfeit coin game 
and other puzzles. 

stimulate the interest students and beginning 
programmers and challenge the ingenuity more ex- 
perienced senior analysts, senior programmers and mathe- 
maticians, more than games are presented for. computer 
solution. These include such popular pastimes Keno, 
Roulette, Go, Chess, Nim, Pantomino and Tic-Tac-Toe. 


Games, Tricks and Puzzles for Hand Calculator, Wallace 
Dudd, 100 pp, $2.95. Dymax, Menlo Park, CA, 1974. 
(Available from Creative Computing Library. See ad.) 

Any young person who has access 
calculator any description will find something 
book challenge and amuse him her. child just 
learning the elements arithmetic will find games and 
tricks the appropriate level. the same time, there 
least one game that sufficiently difficult analyze 
that a-trained adult mind difficulty finding 
winning strategy. reviewer admits not having 


solved it. Our solution appears separate article 
this magazine.) 

There rapidly growing literature the hand cal- 
culator, but find this book outstanding because its 
attractive presentation and wealth ideas. For example, 
there good chapter isolating malfunctions, which 
might have been subtitled Become the Sherlock 
Holmes the Calculator All well ‘written 
and lot fun. 

L.D. Yarbrough 
Lexington, Mass. 


Games Calculators Play. Thomas Seymour, pp, $2.00. 
Seymour Publications (P.O. Box 1788, Rockford, 61110), 
1975. 

don’t know who first turned his calculator around 
with 0.7734 and noticed now said but 
immediately new pastime was born: calculator word 
games. Unfortunately the vocabulary limited I,E,H,S, 
L,B,O,G, and depending bit upon the calculator and 
your imagination. 

This little book collection simple but clever 
calculator problems similar the following: “If man 
invests $211,843 the stock market (ENTER 211843) and 
his stock prices percent (ENTER 26), what does 
(Answer: BIG LOSS) Also included appendix 


some 250 words possible form calculator. Lots 


5379919, 
David Ahl 


Morristown, 


Mathematical Carnival, Martin Gardner, $8.95. Alfred 
Knopf, New York, 1975. 

everyone has pocket calculator. You casually remark 
party that you don’t need one these toys because 
you can multiply two nine-digit numbers your head. 
Ha, ha. Someone challenges you. “Get pencil and 
you say, “and give you the one nine-digit number and 
you give the other.” You write 142,857,143, your friend 
writes, say 123,456,789. hesitation you take the 
paper and write 17,636,684,160,493,827. takes off 
corner and after minutes back looking you 
with more awe than before. Incidentally, most small pocket 
calculators can’t handle this problem—too many digits. 

Gardner explains this trick along with scores others 
such naming the day the any specified date. 
also describes the work Dr. Fliess, Berlin physician 
who was talking about biorhythms (male days, female 
days, believed) way back the 1800’s. Included too 
are variety games including the particularly intriguing 

This book has something for everyone, beginner and 
enthusiast alike. You’ll enjoy it! 
David Ahl 
Morristown, 


The Computerized Society. James Martin and Adrian 
Norman, 560 pp, $12.50. Prentice Hall, New York, 1970. 

The Computerized Society lengthy book 
chapters, divided into three sections which discuss what 
have become the traditional topics computer and society. 
Attention given the rapid growth computing the 
last years, present application areas, the social and 
philosophical consequences the new technology, and the 
controls which may necessary insure the proper use 
computers. 

The book ranges from well-documented chapters 
the growth and uses computing, the authors’ rather 
nebulous attempts formulating policies which would lead 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


Utopia with the new technology. Too much attention 
given categorizing mankind and then assigning jobs 
based the often questionable results tests. 

One problem with books this type that they become 
dated almost before they get into print. For example, the 
quote opening the chapter Law Enforcement: 
little old ladies have wear tennis shoes they can outleg 
the criminals the city streets, there’s something wrong 
with the way we’re doing things” Spiro Agnew. 
Certainly better choice could have been made. 

The book does give thorough treatment all the 
topics important computers and society, and, general, 
useful background material for the professional com- 
puting the layman concerned about the implications of. 
the so-called Unfortunately, given 
the book’s shortcomings, cannot recommended for 
general reading. 

David Feinstein 
University Wisconsin 
River Falls, Wisc. 5402. 


Simulation Games Learning, Boocock, and Schild, 


E.O. (Eds.). Sage Publications, Beverly Hills, CA. 1968. 

1968, when Simulation Games Learning was 
published, simulation games—the combination the 
ancient technique gaming with the relatively recent 
technique simulation—were viewed educational 
innovation. When published; the purpose the book was 
present progress report this new technology, i.e., 
present “valid what known today about 
simulation games learning and current work the 
area. The volume actually grew out two issues the 
American Behavioral Scientist edited James Coleman. 

1975, the book has very little new information 
offer the educator interested instructional computing. 
Most the research findings have been reported sum- 
more recent publications. (See, for example, 
Simulation and Gaming Social Science Inbar and 
Stoll, 1972, Simulation Games for the Classroom 
Mark Heyman, 1975). addition, only one the seventeen 
articles deals with computer-based simulation games. 
that article, Richard Wing describes small-scale, controlled 
experiment designed examine the applicability and 
learning effectiveness two simulation games—the Sum- 
erian Game and the Sierra Leone Game—with sixth grade 
students. The results the experiment led the author 
conclude that computer-based games can used 
practice even with sixth graders; they teach well 
conventional classroom methods; and they seem considerably 
more effective than conventional methods, when the time 
investment the student taken into consideration.” 

Individuals that have used run some version the 
Sumerian Game (SUMER) may find this single article in- 
teresting, since gives some information how the simula- 
tion game is, intended used. 

Dan Klassen 
Lauderdale, Minn. 


Math, Writing Games the Open Classroom Herbert 


Kohl, 252 pp. $2.45. Vintage Books Random House, 


New York ,1974. 

This book two small, loosely related works bound 
single jacket. The first part Writing” 
partly rehash topics the author’s earlier book 
Children, and based upon his experiences teaching 
writing and self discovery children Harlem school, 
well conducting seminars for elementary school 
teachers. 

Part II, and Math’, deals with simple, in- 
expensive games for young children which were created 


JAN-FEB 1976 


both adults and children and which help make learning 
about science, geography, music and mathematics more fun. 
Simple versions and modifications games such chess, 
checkers, nim, and Wari are illustrated and discussed. 
Since the book appears have been written for the elemen- 
tary school teacher who has not yet discovered educational 
games, most the games are rather tame stuff for the 
game buff, especially the computer game enthusiast. How- 
ever, there something here for the expert, because Mr. 
Kohl categorizes and discusses games according themes, 
playing boards, pieces, decision devices, goals and (most 
important) how children learn play games. also 
illustrates the educational value games showing how 
skills and attitudes can developed through game playing, 
how games can made part all areas the cur- 
riculum, and what sources teachers can draw upon for ideas 
and resources for games. The distinctive approach educa- 
tional games this book that children should en- 
couraged create their own games, modify the rules 
standard games suit their own purposes, and play 
games because they want to, not because required 
the teacher. 

The author discusses the similarities between the way 
theories are constructed natural and social sciences and 
the nature creating, exploring and modifying games. 
When creating games, children construct 
theories, perform experiments, make appropriate modifica- 
tions, and examine the consistency and applications their 
theories. Games are shown good ways for children 
learn how work together and make decisions. 

While most readers may find few new ideas for 
educational games this book, the author’s major purpose 
seems that changing the reader’s view education 
and educational games and present some his own 
opinions about learning. This book non- 
technical and informal, and the general reader may find 
Mr. Kohl’s approach games and other teaching strategies 
the interesting and informative. How- 
ever, there mention computer-based games. 

Frederick Bell 
University Pittsburgh 


Getting the Most out Your Electronic Calculator, William 
Hunter. $7.95 Hardbound, $4.95 Paperback. TAB Books, 
Blueridge Summit, PA, April 1974. 

Uncle Fred has given you handy-dandy pocket 
calculator for Christmas—or perhaps you are contemplating 
getting one for yourself friend. What now? really 
worth the money, and just what good for, except 
this season’s toy? 

This book answer some questions about 
what the little boxes are for and how make some 
intelligent use them. doing, points the 
amazing variety hand calculators the market and 
their differences and similarities. 

The strongest points about the book are, first, 
about the only such book now thé market, and second, 
has some interesting chapters applications, especially 
Income Tax preparation. particular interest are photos 
and manufacturer’s blurbs different models. However, 
this portion the book already obsolete because the 
dramatic drop prices and the introduction new models 
the year mote since the book was compiled. 

evaluation the book largely negative. 
obsolete, was mentioned above; although intended 
“to serve modern course general and commercial 
mathematics”, does not seem well suited for its avowed 
purpose (it filled with examples, but there are ex- 
‘ercises which student could measure his skills); 
far better designed reference than text book. 


‘ 


Finally, the examples are worked out terms non- 
existent machine that each algorithm must 
translated into the framework the user’s particular 
capabilities. the other hand, you are buffaloed 
your own calculator and feel you are not getting your 
money’s worth, you ought check this book out. may 
just what you need get you started using effectively. 

L.D. Yarbrough 

Lexington, Mass. 


Problems for Computer Solution, Fred Gruenberger and 
George Jaffray, 401 pp, $7.25. John Wiley Sons, New 
York. 1965. (Available from Creative Computing Library. 
See ad.) 

superb selection problem situations from business 
and science well mathematics. Each problem well 
described and specific exercises are identified. 

Numerous settings are presented prime number 
applications, decimal representations probability related 
problems using random numbers. Many business examples 
are described including compound interest, dividends, sorting 
statistical procedures (queueing, curve fitting, quality 
control), 

Although finished programs are aot presented, 
problems and suggestions are clear and thorough. 

Hank Kepner 
Milwaukee, 


the 


Computer Utilization. Richard Curtis and 
Maynard Erickson, 233 pp., $6.95. General Learning 
Press, Morristown, NJ, 

Fortran introduced the authors with non- 
mathematical attempt made develop the 


reader basic level programming skill stressing the 


logic programming, giving experience writing simple 
programs, and mastering each level learning before 


the next level. 


The reader led through numerous problem solutions 
aided diagrams, sample program printouts, and graphic 
illustrations. 

social science, psychology, pre-medical, other non- 
mathematics student may find this primer 
first exposure the reaim computing the under- 


graduate level. 
Gary Schafer 
Lauderdale, Minn. 55113 


Computer Algorithms and Flowcharting. Gerald Silver 
and Joan Silver, 170 pp., $5.95. 


New York. 


The authors lead the through the steps necessary 
logically analyze problem and formulate fashion 
which readily computer-programmable. 

The topics covered can loosely divided into four units. 
The first devoted problem analysis and algorithm 
development. The second unit involves flowchart preparation, 
including what sometimes called macro and micro flow- 
charts, and very detailed presentation specialized flow- 
chart symbols. Programming ‘techniques such conditional 
and branches, loops, counters, and arrays 
are treated depth third unit. final unit applied 
programming logic involves presentation real-life business 
situations and their solutions using the techniques previously 
discussed. 

Each section the book contains set exercises. 
The early exercises emphasize the language computer 
programming. Later exercises reinforce key terms 
vide practice developing computer algorithms for solutions 
problems. The text contains abundance clearly pre- 
sented flowcharts that clarify the programming techniques 


and solutions problems: Two nice points about the book 
are that previous programming skill needed, 
the book can used with variety languages such 
Fortran, Cobol, and Basic. 

book would appeal the business 
department rather than the mathematics department 
school. would recommend this book for use data 
processing course with access computer, 
reference book used for its description flowcharting 
and problem analysis the business field. 

Bruce DeYoung 
Oakland, 


Mathematics, Human Endeavor. Harold Jacobs. 
pp. $8.50. W.H. Freeman and Co., 
San Francisco, CA. 94104. 
Mathematics the Modern Readings from the 
Scientific American with introductions 
409 pp. $7.00. Freeman and Co. 

Although one doesn’t have know much mathe- 
matics deal with computers, doesn’t hurt know 
some. Here are two very attractive books (W. Freeman 
certainly knows how put out good looking book) that 
introduce various mathematical subjects readers stu- 
dents who may have missed them (or slept through them) 
the way through school. 

Jacobs subtitles his book textbook for those who 
think they don’t like the subject” and although happen 
like the subject, think good book for those who 
don’t. But it’s good for people who like math too. His 
chapter titles suggest what his book covers: The mathe- 
matical way thinking, Number sequences, Functions 


§29 
660 Market Street, 


-and their graphs, Large numbers and logarithms, 


Regular Polygons, Mathematical curves, Some methods 
counting, The mathematics chance, introduc- 
tion statistics, 10. Some topics topology. Jacobs style 
and approach are charming. keeps asking students and 
readers think instead just read. His book full 
good writing (His introduction logarithms gem.) 
full cartoons (Peanuts and others), advertisements, 
photographs and good diagrams. There very little here 
that bears directly computers but lots things that 
people who deal with computers could use. This book 
suitable not only high school college text but also 
read just for the fun it. Highly recommended. 

readings from the Scientific American. Here are articles 
Halmos, Kline, Davis, Euler, Kac, Quine, Dirac, Einsein, 
Ulam, Kemeny and other biggies. Among the 
directly relevant the computer field are articles 
“Computer Logic and Memory” (Evans), Uses 
Computers Science’’ (Oettinger), Analysis and 

Readers familiar with the Scientific will 


‘know what expect. Here are well edited and well illus- 


trated that normal person can quite use 
learn about field but which will get somebody started 
and will appreciated experts for saying lot 
little space, and saying both well and correctly. 

The reader who plans buy this book should note 
that there are two other books readings 
and and Computation: Readings from Scientific 
that also collect articles from the Scientific 
American about computers whose articles tend overlap 
the ones this book. Also Freeman sells reprints’ articles 
from the Scientific American individually. Still this collection 
very attractive and reasonably priced. 

Peter Kugel 
Boston, Mass. 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


a 


CREATIVE 


COMPUTING 
Reviews 


Ruth Glick 
Columbia, Maryland 


substitute for Star Trek reruns, this season’s non- 
network science fiction series.called Space 1999 just doesn’t 
make the grade 

How come? Hasn’t got spectacular special effects like 
the moon blasting out orbit, plenty action, and Moon 
Base Alpha uniforms designed Rudi Gernreich? 

True. But these are only superficialities—the external 
trappings T.V. science fiction. Unfortunately, Space 1999 
also has infantile plots, boring characters, ridiculous motiva- 
tion, poor story construction, gadgets for their own sake and 
whole wax museum full unexplained and unbelievable 
monsters. 

Comparing the new show directly successful series 
like Star Trek good way illustrate the problems. 
memorable Star Trek monster—the horta— 
for example. wasn’t just mindless beast menacing 
group miners. During the show, was estab- 
lished. And later was given believable motivation—that 
mother defending her young. 

hand, Space secorid episode treated 
the viewer old-fashioned horror show featuring over- 
sized hydra that sucked human victims and spit out their 
charred remains. But attempt was explain what 
the monster was, where came from why. Similar ob- 
jections can raised the other monsters Space 1999 


parades the T.V. screen almost every week. Each simply 


deus machina brought foster particular story 
line. 

Lively characterization another missing element Space 
1999. One Star biggest appeals was the crew the 
star ship Enterprise. Spock, Captain Kirk, Dr. McCoy, 
Uhura and the rest still have passionate following today 
because their well-defined, complicated personalities. 


THE MOON 

BLASTED THE 

EARTH'S ORBIT 
THROUGH 


The staff Moon Base Alpha also comes 


national assortment colors. But there’s one the viewer 


really wants root for. The female lead, played Barbara 
Bain, colorless and wooden. And the other cardboard 
characters, with the exception the base’s Commander 
Koenig, are like interchangeable pawns moved about the 
plot. 

Koenig himself problem. Unlike Star Trek’s 
Captain Kirk, who was allowed some human fallibility, he’s 
never wrong. And his dependable infallibility makes pos- 
sible for the viewer figure out very quickly where the 
plot any given Space 1999 episode leading. 

course, being able unravel the plot quickly 
definite handicap, since the stories Space 1999 usually 
drag—with long slow scenes that barely advance the action. 
Take the space expedition the end which that over-sized 
hydra was lurking. For minutes there was action. 
make the sequence even slower, was told flashback, 


unaccountably narrated Barbara Bain, who wasn’t 


present during the expedition. 

Repetition plot devices another deficiency. One week 
Alpha being menaced blinking blue light. The next 
week it’s flashing green light. And, every episode far 
the script dredges the danger radiation leakage. 

It’s possible point out lot more problems—especially 
with the show’s hardware. First, there are those ridiculous 
little gadgets that the base personnel use open doors. 
You’d think that man would have invented something better 
than glorified key the year 1999, Imagine one dropped 
off someone’s belt and were trapped room days 
before being 

what about the use computers Space 1999? 
Maybe they don’t have the technology match Star Trek’s 
computer.” But they should able better 
than machine that prints out its hard copy what looks 
like adding machine tape. 

And then there are the hand weapons—which are almost 
identical present-day staple guns—except that they shoot 
energy rays instead staples. 

It’s obvious that far less thought went into designing 
believable equipment for Moon Base Afpha than for the star 
ship Enterprise. 

However, Space 1999 does have all over Star Trek the 
special effects department. Their moon landings, space-suited 
lunar surface sequences, and atomic explosions are unbeliev- 
ably good for T.V. production. 

they don’t have the scientific accuracy match the 
effects. Isaac Asimov took about 1500 words pointing out 
these problems New York Times the show 
more than month ago. His biggest quarrels were with the 
number planets Moon Base Alpha has encountered 
such short time and with the show’s inaccurate references 
“dark side the moon.” 

With highly successful model like Star Trek crib from, 
the producers Space 1999 should have come with some 
satisfying drama. Too bad that what they have 
bunch spectacular special effects search decent 
story line and few interesting characters. 


e 
. 
JAN-FEB 1976 83 


Feature Review 


Books 


Stephen Barrat Gray 

Gray Engineering Consultants 
260 Noroton Ave. 

Darien, Conn. 06820 


Installment Number 
This group review books BASIC started 


Creative Computing, Vol. No. Five seven reviews 
appear each issue. More 


For future group review books 
applications BASIC, would appreciate 
information concerning such publications. 
This would include not only books such 
Computers, BASIC and Physics, 
but also applications books not oriented 
toward any particular language, but which 
could used with BASIC, such Gruen- 
berger Gaffrey’s Problems for Computer 
Solution. 
Also appreciated about 
books BASIC languages other than 
English. 


22. Fundamental Programming Concepts, Jonathan 
Gross and Walter Brainerd. Pub. Apr. 1972, Harper 
(hardcover). 

Some excellent portions, but too many difficult areas 
unexplained, far too much extraneous overly complex 
Rating: for classroom use, B+; for the solitary 
reader, 


the dust jacket, some letters the title are 
filled in, generating subtitle: Fun Programming. This book 
could quite lot fun, the hands good teacher 
who could explain the hard parts, and cut through the 
material that doesn’t belong. But the hands the 
reader, this text provides more exasperation than 

The preface says “This book the appropriate length 
for concentrated semester course and could also used 
guide for motivated person who has 
time-sharing service available.” Highly motivated, that is, 
and with above 150. 

There are ten chapters: Elementary BASIC; Advanced 
BASIC; Information Processing; Character Strings; Math- 
ematical Methods (maxima and minima, approximating 
roots, area, graph plotting, matrix operations); Simulation; 
Two Puzzles (algebraic, colored cubes); Artificial Intelli- 
gence; Machine Language, Assemblers, and Compilers; 
Programming Languages. 

The beginning good, five-line program that adds 
two constants, using three LET statements, page The 
next page has five-liner that finds the product three 
constants, using READ, DATA and LET. 

Page begins section using terminal, with 11% 
pages remote access, and writing and running 
programs. The writing simple and straightforward, with 
rare sense humor: “The computer does not have 
extrasensory perception, cannot detect errors 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


meaning, like adding the wrong number naming the 
wrong variable.” later, “On some systems the more 
euphemistic word UNSAVE used instead KILL.” 

But page the flaws begin show. There are not 
enough examples; none all some cases, the 
paragraphs relation symbols: Flowcharts are introduced 
early, but there are only the whole book. 

The first major flaw page 25. Line 130 the 
PRIME program not explained; not readily apparent 
why compared with N-1 rather than just 

this were the only unexplained program line, then 
little harm would have been done. But there are many such 
puzzlers that only professional programmer could easily 
understand, and which leave the beginner confused and 
exasperated. page 73, line 340 the BOOK program 
reads PRINT without explanation that 
quotes around blank spaces are one way formatting 
output. page 58, BKWRDS prints numbers both 
forwards and backwards; there explanation key 
line, 190 FOR 10, although there are items 
the list, not 10. This the introduction subscripted 
variables, which need not complex, with lines, and 
with one line that raises more questions than the program 
answers. Lines 200 220 are also not explained, other 
than the REM EXCHANGE ELEMENTS. 
general, there not enough explaining programs, usually 
only general description, explanation the lines that 
are different from what has been previously 
except few very rare instances. 

There group problems after most the sections 
each chapter, although without answers. Some these 


are for high-IQ types only, such the ninth one 


page 45, which asks the reader “write program that 
allows person play the game matchsticks against the 
computer.” 

many places, the authors get into areas that are off 
the track. the example given for GOSUB and RETURN, 
the book goes off into explanation return-address 
stack. Although some readers may want know what’s 
inside the machine, extraneous the subject hand, 
the section the scratch area.” 

page 54, the reader has become conscious 
writing style that dry and often stilted: “It emphasized 
that the computer. creates the data stack during 
compilation, before begins running the program.” 

There are too many tricks that may only confuse the 
uninitiated, such using the line READ X,Y,X,Y,X 
explaining RESTORE. This fine for the high-IQ readers 
curious about the byways BASIC, but not the average 
reader. 

37-line program that computes the charges for 
long-distance telephone calls used demonstrate 


double-subscripted variables. Not too difficult, but why 


such long program every time? 

page 69, the authors are through describing BASIC, 
and into applications; the problems get much harder 
this part the book. Problem page asks the reader 
use data such 10010, which must somehow broken 
down into the individual binary digits, but there nothing 
this point (or anywhere else the text) indicate 
how this. 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


Many other things are left for the reader figure out. 
The only explanation how bubble-sorting works one 
brief sentence and one REM line. 

The authors are stingy with examples. Built-in 
functions, such ABS and SGN, are introduced without 
examples why, how and when use them. There 
only one example table. There are examples 
PRINT with and without comma and semicolon. 

Most the application programs are much too long 
and complex useful the beginner who has learned 
what BASIC knows from this book. There little point 
using BOOKS, long library-book-availability program 
that requires such long explanation, and which does little 
anything teach BASIC. There are seven pages 
cryptography, which must favorite subject one 
both authors; this usually and end-of-book subject, but 
here used application strings, for other than 
which rather trivial. Page 173 begins four pages 
explanation for archeology program. Only one line 
explained 99-line program baseball simulation. 

The most curious program Appendix which 
contains complete description and listing the 
BRAIN simulator,” “mythical introduced 
help “developing little programming skill machine 
language.” This quite interesting, but certainly does not 
belong beginning text. requires pages the main 
text, and all ten Appendix including 
three-page flowchart and four-page listing the 285-line 
program. 

The title the book should more the order 
“Beginning BASIC with However, this 
good book for advanced work, for browsing the 
applications portion. 

There are some unique portions. These are the only 
authors distinguish between the use parentheses and 
brackets BASIC, noting that expressions use 


parentheses indicate the order evaluation. 


arguments are enclosed parentheses. Subscripts and 
dimensions are enclosed brackets. However, many 
BASIC allow the programmer use parentheses 
and brackets interchangeably.” 

The authors are the ones say, “Usually, the 
main with BASIC program getting run 
successfully, not necessarily most efficiently. Therefore, 
higher premium placed clarity than upon brevity.” 
They are alone showing how generate random 
numbers “if there random-number generator the 
language the one available not satisfactory,” and 
giving “suggested reading” throughout the text, after many 
the groups exercises. They are among the very few 
get into the economics programming: “The cost 
computing going down and the cost programming 
going up, which means that there are fewer and fewer 
occasions which justify the use assembly language 
programming.” They are among the very few who discuss 
the infinite loop. There are five fine pages debugging, 
going into hand simulation, tracing with PRINT statements, 
and sample runs. 

The last problem the book short one, 
program that will produce rock and roll music.” How can 
beginner this after reading only one page program 
that composes music”? This very reminiscent the last 
section Kemeny Kurtz (2), “Harmony Music,” 
which has over three pages more difficult area 
music, with long program and also long and careful 
explanation it. The last problem the Kemeny Kurtz 
book much more reasonable: “Try the program MUSIC 
several melodies and suggest improvements the 
program based your experience.” 

Chapter 10, Programming Languages, has unique 
and interesting feature: 8-line BASIC program 
presented, followed discussions its equivalent 
FORTRAN, ALGOL, and That’s fine, but why 
follow with eight pages SNOBOL? 

trying all things all readers, the authors end 
exasperating most them. 


JAN-FEB 1976 


23. Programming Time-Shared Computers BASIC, 
Eugene Barnett. Pub. Apr. 14, 1972, Wiley- 
Interscience div. John Wiley Sons, New York, Y., 
366 pages, $12.00 (hardcover). 

acks much information into well-designed book, 
with many unique features. Rating: 


One the best organized these books, this meant 
used (according the dust jacket) high schools, 
colleges, in-house courses, and for self-study. should 
admirably for any these. 

short program presented page after 
discussion and flowchart. 

The subsequent presentation programs proceeds 
slowly and surely, and although the program page 
lines long, very simple program that easily 
understood. This payroll program, which includes em- 
ployees Mike and Deborah Barnett (nepotism child 
labor?), modified and enlarged upon halfway 
through the book, which time has taken very new 


look. 


.There are eight chapters: Introduction; Elementary 
BASIC Programming; Programming, Hints; Matrices, Input, 
Random Numbers, and Other Good Features; Advanced 
Examples; Advanced BASIC Features; Data Files: Input/ 
Output; Computer Features. The book ends with solutions 
selected exercises. 

There are several sets exercises each chapter, 
presented right after each major statement group 
statements, These exercises are given nice variety: 
the end the section TO, for instance, there are 
exercises interest, test-score averages, center gravity, 
vectors, calculating area under curve, and standard 
deviation, among others, and this only page 60. Some 
the exercises are quite far-out, such the one that asks the 
reader “computer the (x,y,z) position satellite,” 

page 73, after IF-THEN, the author figures it’s time 
for the reader get better idea how problems are 
solved with the computer, there are pages “‘more 
sample problems,” with programs and full discussions 
subjects such loan interest, largest nuinber, depreciation, 
moving average, linear regression. quadratic equations, and 
binomial probability. 

Over pages are devoted Bag Tricks, which 
are “‘little gimmicks” the type the reader urged 
“consciously develop.” The author discusses first the 
accumulator, which believes “the important 
single trick computer programming,” then goes into 
counters, interactive techniques, recognizing the end of, 
data, step functions, and several others. One the best 
that using employee numbers line numbers, and then 
letting the computer sort them into numerical 

This the only book other than Sass (21) use MAT 
arithmetic for business applications, such accumulating 
total sales for each retailer, salaries, production and 
distribution methods, product test data, etc. 

Random numbers area which many authors 
devote minimum space; Barnett has eight very nice 
pages. 

page 231 the author decides it’s time for advanced 
examples, and presents pages problems, programs and 
discussion, covering, among others, moving averages, 
sorting, survey analysis, simultaneous equations, Monte 
Carlo simulation business decision, random walk, and 
even simultaneous differential equations, nice batch 
sophisticated applications. 

The last chapter contains one the few sections 
editing these books, and the only one discuss 
time-sharing contracts. 

unique feature preview, right front page 
xiii, telling the reader what can look forward to, with 
list Program Subjects, following major subjects are 
illustrated various examples and exercises throughout 
this text.” There are subjects listed, under the headings 
business and financial, sociology, engineering, mathe- 
matics and operations research, and miscellaneous. very 
nice pre-sell show the reader what big, exciting things are 
ahead of-him. 


‘ 

{ 

t 


There are very few things say against this and 
all are relatively trivial. few statements are somewhat 
confusing, such “An important aspect the READ 
statement that the computer has the ability never read 
the same DATA entry twice (except under special 
conditions True, but the wording nevertheless 
confusing. the same page, the READ can 
read many variables 
Simultaneously? 

Barnett the most all these authors. 
forward the first set sample problems,” 
writes: “It the student’s immediate task to: simply 
understand how each program does, fact, implement 
each problem; begin understand some the trickery, 
and subterfuge used accomplish real-life 


24. Introducing BASIC, Theodore Blakeslee, II. Pub. 
Aug. 1972 Educomp Corp., 298 Park Road, West 
Hartford, Conn. 06119, 162 pages, 11, $4.95 
(paperback). 

Although there are many good parts, the coverage 
uneven and the writing often stilted. Rating: 


Although this book not published book 
company, was, according the preface, “written 
general primer for BASIC, and may used easily with any 
computer system supporting the BASIC language, [al- 
though] the book was designed around the Edusystem line 
computers marketed the time this 
book was written, both Educomp and Digital Equipment 
Corp. were using for their computer systems 
for schools. Then DEC copyrighted the name 
EduSystem, Educomp now uses EDUCOMPUTER. 

There are eleven chapters: Introduction, Fundamen- 
Communicating (INPUT, PRINT, TAB), Assignment 
‘Statements, Control Statements, Functions, Sub- 
routines, Teletype Graphics, Errors, and “Pity the Poor 
User.” There are exercises the ends chapters through 
10, without 


simultaneously desired.” 


The preface notes that “Emphasis placed two 


important aspects, the random number generator and 
terminal Actually, the emphasis Teletype 
graphics 20-page chapter), not the random-number 
generator (three pages the chapter functions). 

The cost the book has been kept down typing 
the text, leaving the right margin unjustified, and doing all 
the artwork freehand (lines around boxes, exponential 
arrows, etc.). the cost has been kept below $5.00, but 
the appearance suffers. This the only book without 
consecutive page numbering; each chapter starts with page 
number one, such 7-1. 

This book not very well written; tries 


conversational, but still has too much the pedagogue, 


the beginner won’t find the going very easy number 
places. the second page: “The computer language called 
BASIC is, itself, computer program. very complex 
program written different kind computer language 
(“machine” language), one that requires great detail when 
writing program.” This page 1-2 book that 
designed “let you obtain working knowledge” 
BASIC “with minimum teacher assistance.” 

Page 1-3 notes that every statement starts with line 
number, but gives examples. Nor are there examples 
commands, which “use line numbers.” When writing 
about string constants, this the only author who refers 
elsewhere the book for examples. There just aren’t 
enough examples, and some places, none all. 

Many sentences leave unanswered questions and 
therefore tend cryptic, such should also note 
that the characters “12345” string (remember the 
quotation marks) are not the same the numeric constant 
12345 (twelve thousand three hundred And 
page 7-5, “In addition, much this mathematics also gives 
the constant raised power the result 


(mystical, magical, mathematical manipula- 
tions).” 

That alliterative phrase part curious and often 
awkward writing style that includes, discussion 
plotting (nothing undercover) postponed until Chapter 
writing about quotation marks PRINT 
statement, data processed, just character-by- 
character regurgitation.” confession: “The author has 
used both kinds LET statements and prefers the implied 
LET but must confess highly developed sense 
laziness.” Pedantic: LET statement resembles the 
algebraic equation but its operation one evaluation and 
assignment.” Confusing: “Try using just leading comma 
and space” (without explaining what leading comma 
is). Cute (heading for printout): “RANDOM NUMBERS 
(SPECIAL SALE).” Or, page 11-3, for use 
people not all familiar with the mysterious art -of 
programming.” 

Some the explanations are not too clear: 
comma will control the position the type element 
14-position line segments.” The author the only one 
use technical terms such embed and hierarchial. 

This uneven book, too generous some places 
(nine pages precedence), much too skimpy others 
(only one flowchart the book, and that “verbal” one). 

Program 5.06 shown will not produce the given 
output, because the STEP 1/2 missing from the FOR 
the prévious program, the step should I/2, not 1/2. Had 
the author included the needed explanation, would 
probably have realized that left out the step. 

There mention the standard table dimension; 
page 6-3 notes that program using the given list would 
have include DIM A(6). Program 6.01 has DIM A(9). 

The explanation program 6.02 says “The first 
numbers line 360 specify how many numbers are 
contained each Not true; they are one less than 
the required value. Later the text notes that line 340 uses 
B(I)+1 and asks the reader why, but never tells him. This 
important but unexplained point. 

‘The section bubble-sorting, the other hand, 
long and very well explained. 

The author often gets too far ahead the reader, with 
complex programs demonstrate something that could 
done much better with short program. The author then 
fails answer all the questions the complex program brings 
virtue its complexity. 

The chapter Teletype sections 
“more the TAB function,” simple graph, plotting with 
negative values, using Teletype graphics solve 
equation, and plotting multiple functions, this last with 


124 lines, five subroutines and GOSUB 


statements plot three functions. 

Chapter 10, program errors, covers debugging, with 
seven-page example debugging program. The last 
chapter, “Pity the Poor User,” covers the documenting 
programs with flowcharts, generalization programs, and 
output format. The opening states: “This chapter will 
regarded some sermon and unnecessary sermon 
that. However, having examined 

The writing often the Tom Swift level: “With 
fingers crossed and feeling dread type RUN 
introduced, the changes entered, and one more hope rides 
high.” 
Appendix Teletype terminals; Appendix lists 
the BASIC statements, edit and control commands, and 
functions, and which the five EDUCOMPUTERS uses 
each. 

There much emphasis neat, 
understandable program output. 


simple and 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


4 
4 
86 


Computing With the BASIC Language, Fred 
Gruenberger. Pub. Aug. 1972 Canfield Press, San 
Francisco, Calif., 140 pages, 10, $5.95 (paperback). 

Good for reading after one two others BASIC, 
after having some programming experience. Otherwise, too 
much extraneous (although interesting) material. Rating: 
first book; C—; second third book, 


disappointing book, when compared with others 
Gruenberger. Although there are many interesting side- 
lights, they don’t belong 140-page book for 
one-semester introductory course computing.” 

the plus side, these sidelights are most interest 
someone reading this after having gone through one 
more other books BASIC, having had some 
programming experience. The author the only one tell 
how find out the program endless loop. 
explains more detail than most why the conversion from 
decimal binary not always exact. gives the title and 
author the first article flowcharting. the only 
author show what should not done flowcharting. 

the only one show how make 
timing run. alone asks the reader run program that 
will demonstrate the range some 
functions. alone asking “What should 
compute?” and takes pages answer. There fine 
section “The Limitations BASIC.” has one the 
few write-ups machine, assembly 
language. The first appendix gives three excellent pages 
the internal workings BASIC time-sharing system. 

The main text set entirely typewriter font, with 
headings, programs and captions five other kinds type, 
resulting appearance that less than handsome. There 
are exercises the end each chapter; the last exercise 
number 310, but there are not 310 exercises; they are 
numbered 10, 15, 20... the basis that this provides 
“for the insertion new exercises”; there are actually 
exercises. 

The exercises are not set off from the text; page 26, 
for example, the exercise runs into the text, and this 
portion the text, one, could easily skipped over 
the reader not careful. Actually, the reader may not 
always able tell what text, part exercise. 
the latter, then the exercise contains important information 
that should the text, not missed the 
hurried reader who skips the exercises. 

There are eleven chapters: First Look BASIC; 
Data, Numbers and Variables; Flowcharting, More About 
Writing Programs; Looping; Functions; Subroutines; Prob- 
lem Solving; Debugging, Testing and Good Computing; 
Extended BASIC Features, and Final Word (The 
Elements Computing, Your Future Computing). There 


are six appendixes: About BASIC Itself, Things Check 


For, Error Messages, Library Programs, Eight Advanced 
Problems (perpetual calendar, elapsed days, change maker, 
etc.), and Selected Exercises, with 
answers only acouple 

There are only pages main text, the 
information has poured on, with space for 
investigating detail, yet the author keeps straying from 
the subject hand, going into areas that should beyond 
the scope such text. 

sink-or-swim basis, the author starts right off with 
explanation for each program line. This program would 

difficult for many readers understand. 

Gruenberger another author- who emphasizes the 
nicety not allowing program end OUT DATA 
LINE saying this “not the most graceful way 
terminate program,” adding “but works and 
commonly used.” 

several places cryptic: powers ten and 
powers two without further 
explanation. Some programs contain lines that are not 

all, but whose importance far from obvious. 

The text begins get little page 20, 


which author gets into probability illustrate 


flowcharting, with example that neither interesting 
nor simple. 


JAN-FEB 1976 


example the terseness this text, the 
description formatting with comma and semicolon takes 
only four sentences and two program lines. 

The author writes though had first made 


outline, and then filled sparsely possible. The 


style rather dry, with only odd item now and then 
brighten the desert. 

This text seems another example 
writing for beginners without realizing that he’s writing 
over their heads, that they may know absolutely nothing 
about programming. 

Gruenberger doesn’t seem comfortable BASIC. For 
one thing, page 36, starts using the concept 
describing loop. 

The chapter Problem Solving with BASIC begins 
with bracketing, which too much for many beginners, 
and poorly explained, are the three pages Euclid’s 
algorithm, which are very confusing; only very clever 
reader follow the text here. 


26. Business Programming With BASIC, George Diehr. 
Pub. Oct. 20, 1972, Becker and Hayes, subsidiary 
John Wiley Sons, New York, Y., 344 pages, 11, 
$8.95 (paperback). 

few good features, but mainly jumbled, distracting 


mixture solid masses text and too many interrupting 
problems. Rating: 


The basic idea this text sounds good: has 
“semi-programmed” format, with questions throughout 
each chapter, usually related directly the text. They are 
multiple-choice questions, with the answers 


the right side; the author suggests covering the answers with 


opaque card while you read the question.” 

But the questions come thick and fast, interspersed 
the text, that it’s often difficult figure out just which 
which. The questions have line before and after them, 
but there are often many page that the separation 
isn’t all that obvious. 

Chapter for example, pages long, followed 
five-page review quiz, and then four pages quiz answers. 
the pages, only are text; the rest taken with 
questions and answers. The entire book contains 330 
questions text, and review-quiz questions. Some 
the latter provide space for writing the answer, some 
pages have only couple lines them. 

Each chapter begins with half-page outlining the 
chapter’s contents. There are eight chapters: Computers 
and Terminal Systems; Introduction BASIC; Conditional 
Transfers, PRINT Statement, Iteration; FOR-NEXT, 
Library Functions; String Manipulation, Input/Output 
Extensions; Subscripted Variables; Advanced Uses Lists 
and Tables; Subroutines, Simulation. The three appendixes 
are on: extensions BASIC, from file processing PRINT 
USING; summary BASIC; and table 
system-dependent features and their parameters for nine 
time-sharing systems, from the B5500 the XDS 5,7. 

The first chapter rather messy, jumbling together 
too-long program, description terminal use, examples 
two systems, error correction, and too many questions 
and answers, plus two pages commands and editing 
features, for both CALL/360 and MARK II. 

The writing pedestrian, and sometimes confusing, 
such character one the letters from our alphabet, 
single digit, one several symbols such *+=... 
Roughly speaking, when number stored memory, 
two digits can stored the space required for single 
character.” 

easy read, especially since there are some very solid 
masses type, seven inches wide and several inches deep. 
This perhaps the worst feature the book: the solid 
chunks small type. 

The author gets off bad start the very first 
question, page asking who developed BASIC. The 


4 
4 
| 
j 
| 
i 
| 


choices are: IBM, Kemeny and Kurtz, creators 
Screaming Yellow Zonkers.” The rest the 396 questions 
are all serious, but this first one sets unfortunate tone. 

There are removable. pages the end the book, 
taken out “so you can refer one page while 
answering another page. Since duplicate each 
these included the relevant chapter, the redundancy 
seems 

The first chapter presents READ and PRINT, but then, 
before making use either, goes into page and half 
about involving discount, interrupted 
arithmetic questions intended test the reader’s 
knowledge basic mathematics. 

The first program nine lines long, discount off 
gross cost, with fairly good explanation the various 
steps involved, but rather long for first program. this 
same page the author goes right away into compilation, 
with long paragraph source programs, compilers, and 
object programs. 

Four pages are taken show the discount program 
(now called billing program) run, corrected, saved and 
unsaved both the IBM and systems, which seems 
wasteful 

There some confusion terminology: page 43, 
each line-number there always ‘English’ word. 
This word, called ‘Command,’ describes the function 
purpose the statement.” This author the only one 
use the terms “destructive read-in” and “non-destructive 
read-out” describing the use READ, PRINT and LET, 
and the only one refer dummy data 
value, indicate end DATA. 

The text constantly refers that explain 
various points such constants, DATA, variables, etc. But 
these “figures” are just plain ordinary text with line above 
and below, not drawings charts all, which somewhat 
misleading. The style rather dull, such this heading 
for the READ “figure”: “Syntax and semantics the 


READ statement.” 


The book’s title also misleading: the main text has 
very little with business programming. There are 
about two dozen complete programs the book. Half 
dozen are billing programs; the others are assigning letter 
grades for school, compound interest, optimal order 
search, finding values less than the mean, 
finding values less than the average, frequency tabulation, 
federal income tax, the problem,” etc. There 
also program that simulates game dice, and one that 


writes song Macdonald’s Farm”) illustrate the 


use strings. Not much way business 
programming these programs, but there the two 
three “programming problems” that accompany each 
chapter, which somehow seems rather odd way 
teaching business programming. the preface puts it, 
“Each chapter concludes with set suggested 
programming assignments varying difficulty. These 
assignments are designed put the learning 
the acid test. The programming assignments include data 
and correct answers for the problem.” These programming 


are computing unit price supermarket 


items, monetary conversion, future values ‘investment, 
assigning letter grades, payroll program, depreciation, true 


annual interest, mean and standard deviation, rate return 


investment, total receipts for week, sales report, 
bubble sort, optimal replacement policy, maximum and 
minimum GPA, production costs, simulation program for 
inventory problem. 

The sixth program lines long, but it’s not too 
hard; assigns letter grades depending the student’s 
numerical scores, and mainly and DATA statements. 
The 17th program quite complicated: lines 
extended grading problem. Yet does little other than 
determine the student’s grade, and then list the various 
grades according grade groupings. 

This one the five BASIC books without index, 
making difficult impossible look anything, 
except spending much time searching the contents 
pages. 

The jumble text and questions very hard follow 


without getting lost bored death, both. The book 
needlessly confusing, and should have been heavily edited, 
set book type, the padding removed, and the dull text 
improved. But would worth the trouble? 


27. Entering BASIC, John Sack and Judith 
Meadows. Pub. Dec. 1972 Science Associates, 
Chicago, 133 pages, 9%, $4.95 (paperback). 

One the best, the reader very knowledgeable. 
But not enough for beginner. Rating: for 
programmer, for beginner, 


mixed bag, with some fine portions, and preface 
that reads beautifully: ideal first step 
FORTRAN, COBOL, and ALGOL. Like the Roman god 
Janus who faces both ways, BASIC faces the needs those 
just entering the world automated data processing well 
those departing for its more stratified plateaus.” 

This book complements Gear’s Introduction 
Computer Science (also from SRA, 1973); “His book 
frequently referred for detailed discussions specific 
points that beyond the scope this book. The two 
books are, however, mutually independent.” 

There are twelve chapters: Fundamentals Comput- 
ing, Interactive Processing, Introduction BASIC, 
Assigning Values Variables, Input/Output, Program 
Control, BASIC Functions, Subroutines, Array Handling, 
String Manipulation, Advanced Features, Debugging Aids. 
There are two appendixes: Summary BASIC Features, 
and Solutions Selected Exercises. glossary 
ends the took. 

‘The book opens with very readable style and nice 
flow the language. There excellent section, possibly 
the best, Rules Preference for arithmetic operators. 
The authors are among the few the books) 
introduce string constants and variables along with numeric 
constants and variablés, rather than much later the text, 
not all. 

However, early the book things begin little 
too fast for and without explaining terms. 


For example, “assembly language” never explained 


adequately, section that would difficult for most 
beginners, although not for programmer. And yet the 
preface indicates that the book for newcomer 
computer science.” The authors jump into 
commands without suitable preparation explanation, 
without word how enter these commands, 
what. 

The first exercise rather silly, page 19: “To apply 
your newly learned wisdom, the next time you hear people 
talking computer jargon, casually drop the following: 
other day was communicating via teleprocessing lines with 
our time-sharing system logged with 
the*system executive, entered program, 
and compiled using the BASIC are 
they pulling the reader’s leg? 

The first program, page 21, seven lines long, and 
prints the square roots through 5..The explanation 
those seven lines mixed with four-page general 
discussion the elements BASIC, and gets lost the 
shuffle. 

The program page 39, average too 
complex for many beginners ‘read; too much too soon. 

Because its lack detail, ‘and inadequate 
preparation for the programs presented, this book not 
suitable for beginners, unless teacher available for filling 
the gaps and answering questions. the other hand, 
this one the best books for the knowledgeable reader, 
programmer looking for quick introduction 


CREATIVE COMPUTING 


. 


collar 


creative 


T-SHIRT ORDER FORM 


Please RUSH Creative Computing T-Shirt today. 
Circle size XL. Enclose cash, check, 
money order for $4.00 (includes postage Add 50¢ 
postage Canada, $1.00 other countries). 


Name 


Stratford, 06491. 


Return form Creative Computing T-Shirt, P.O. Box 


4 

Street 

789-M, Morristown, 07960 USA. 


January 1975, MITS stunned the computer world with 
the announcement the Altair 8800 Computer that sells for 
kit form. 

Today MITS announcing the Altair 680. 

The Altair 680, built around the revolutionary new 6800 
microprocessor chip, the lowest priced complete computer 


the market. now being offered the special, 
low price $345! 


The Altair 680 comes with power 
supply, front panel control board, 
and CPU board inclosed 
11” wide 11” deep 11/16” case. 
addition the 6800 processor, 
the CPU board contains the following: 

1024 words memory (RAM 

2102 type 1024 1-bit chips). 
Built-in Interface that can 
configured for 
RS232 
Teletype loop 
Teletype. 

Provisions for 
1024 words 
ROM PROM. 


The Altair 680 can 
programmed from the front 
panel switches can 
connected computer terminal (RS232) Teletype such 
ASR-33 surplus five-level Baudott Teletype (under $100). 
The Altair 680 can utilized for many home, commercial 
industrial applications can used development system 
for Altair 680 CPU boards. With cycle time microseconds, 
16-bit addressing, and the capability directly addressing 
65,000 words memory and virtually unlimited number 
1/O devices, the Altair very versatile computer! 


Altair 680 Software 


Software for the Altair monitor PROM, 
assembler, debug, and editor. This software will 
available Altair 680 owners nominal cost. 

Future software development will influenced 
customer demand. MITS will sponsor lucrative software 
contests encourage the rapid growth the Altair 680 
software library. Programs this library will made 
available all Altair 680 owners the cost 
printing and mailing. 


Altair Users Group 


All Altair 680 purchasers will receive free one year 
membership the Altair Users Group. This the largest 
its kind the world and includes thousands Altair 
680 users. 

Members the Altair Users Group are kept abreast Altair 
developments through the monthly publication, Computer 
Notes. 


Lowest Price the World! 


Altair 680 Documentation 


The Altair comes with complete documentation 
including assembly manual, assembly hints manual, operation 
manual, and theory manual. Assembled units come with 
operation and theory manuals. Turnkey mode! and CPU boards 
also include documentation. 

NOTE: complete set Altair 680 manuals 
3-ring Altair binder now available for $14.50 
(regularly $25). Offer expires January 30, 1976. 


Delivery 


Personal checks take 2-3 weeks 
process while money 
orders and credit card 


purchases can 
processed 1-3 days. 


orders are handled 
first come, first 
served basis. 


Altair 680 Prices 


Altair 680 complete computer $345 
Altair 680 assembled and $420 
Altair 680T turnkey model (complete Altair 680 except 
front panel control board) Kit Only.................. $280 
Altair 680 CPU board (including board, 6800 micro- 
processor chip, 1024 word memory, way interface 


and all remaining components except power supply) 
Altair 680 CPU board assembled and tested............ $275 
Option socket kit (contains sockets. CPU, 

memory and PROM sockets come with 680 
Option cooling fan (required when expanding 680 


PROM kit (256 8-bit ultraviolet, erasable 1702 


Connectors (Two sets 25-pin connectors. Required 
when interfacing 680 external devices)............ 


Prices, delivery and specifications subject to change. 


“Creative Electronics” 
MITS/6328 Linn N.E., Albuquerque, 87108 505/262-1951 


MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY! 


Altair 680 Kit Assembled Altair 680T Altair 680CPU 
Socket Kit Fan PROM kit Documentation Special 

Please send literature 

ADDRESS. 

MITS/6328 Linn Albuquerque, 87108 505/262-1951 


