-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: keymaster@town.hall.org
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFkwCgYEVQgBAQICAgADSwAwSAJBALeWW4xDV4i7+b6+UyPn5RtObb1cJ7VkACDq
 pKb9/DClgTKIm08lCfoilvi9Wl4SODbR1+1waHhiGmeZO8OdgLUCAwEAAQ==
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 c1EBa0MobKjH5ambV6QoJgtusVYx3n3dzgwZaoMOA2qY/kBMznEXt43xnaH3UIgq
 PTOG46/6O7m35YHe1juhiQ==

<IMS-DOCUMENT>0000898430-95-001064.txt : 19950613
<IMS-HEADER>0000898430-95-001064.hdr.sgml : 19950613
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000898430-95-001064
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K405
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		14
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19950331
FILED AS OF DATE:		19950612
SROS:			NASD
SROS:			NYSE
SROS:			PSE

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MCKESSON CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000927653
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	WHOLESALE-DRUGS PROPRIETARIES & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES [5122]
		IRS NUMBER:				943207296
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0331

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K405
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	033-86536
		FILM NUMBER:		95546365

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE POST ST
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94104
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4159838300

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SP VENTURES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940728
</IMS-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K405
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C.  20549

                                   FORM 10-K

             [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended March 31, 1995

                                       or

           [ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


                         Commission file number 1-13252


                              McKESSON CORPORATION
                             A Delaware Corporation
                       I.R.S. Employer Number 94-3207296

            McKesson Plaza, One Post Street, San Francisco, CA 94104
                      Telephone - Area Code (415) 983-8300



Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                    (Name Of Each Exchange
  (Title Of Each Class)                              On Which Registered)

  Common Stock, $.01 par value                      New York Stock Exchange
                                                     Pacific Stock Exchange


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:  None.

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X   No 
                                        ---     ---   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]

Aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the Registrant
at June 1, 1995:  $1,734,940,620

Number of shares of common stock outstanding at June 1, 1995:  44,626,319


                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


Portions of the Appendix to the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on July 26, 1995 are incorporated by
reference into Parts I and II of this report.  Portions of the Registrant's
Proxy Statement for said meeting are incorporated by reference into Part III of
this report.
<PAGE>
 
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS


Item                                                                        Page
- ----                                                                        ----

                                     PART I
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
<S>     <C>                                                                 <C>
  1.    Business.........................................................     1

  2.    Properties.......................................................     6

  3.    Legal Proceedings................................................     6

  4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders..............     8

        Executive Officers of the Registrant.............................     9
 

<CAPTION> 
                                    PART II

 
<S>     <C>                                                                 <C>
  5.    Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder
         Matters.........................................................    11

  6.    Selected Financial Data..........................................    11

  7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
         Results of Operations...........................................    11

  8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data......................    11

  9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
         Financial Disclosure............................................    11
 

<CAPTION> 
                                    PART III

 
<S>     <C>                                                                 <C> 
 10.    Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant...............    12

 11.    Executive Compensation...........................................    12

 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management...    12

 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions...................    12
 

<CAPTION> 
                                    PART IV

<S>     <C>                                                                 <C> 
 14.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.    13

        Signatures.......................................................    14
</TABLE> 
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART I



ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

(a)  General Development of Business

     New McKesson (the "Company") was organized in the state of Delaware on July
7, 1994 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of McKesson Corporation, a Delaware
corporation ("McKesson"), for the purpose of owning and operating the businesses
of McKesson following the acquisition of McKesson's pharmaceutical benefits
management business ("PCS") by ECO Acquisition Corporation ("ECO"), a subsidiary
of Eli Lilly and Company ("Lilly"), for approximately $4 billion (the "PCS
Transaction").  PCS had been operated primarily by PCS Health Systems, Inc. and
Clinical Pharmaceuticals, Inc., both of which were wholly-owned subsidiaries of
McKesson.

     As part of the PCS Transaction, on November 21, 1994 the Company acquired
all of the assets and liabilities of McKesson, other than those related to PCS,
and McKesson distributed to its stockholders one share of the Company's common
stock for each share of McKesson common stock held of record as of November 19,
1994 (the "Spin-Off").

     Simultaneously with the Spin-Off, ECO consummated a tender offer for all
outstanding shares of McKesson common stock at a price of $76 per share (the
"Offer").  Following the completion of the Offer, McKesson merged with and into
ECO.

     As a result of the PCS Transaction (i) Lilly became the indirect sole owner
of PCS, and (ii) each existing McKesson stockholder received (a) a cash payment
of $76 per share of McKesson common stock (representing the proceeds from the
sale of PCS) and (b) one share of common stock of the Company, representing
their continuing interest in the retained businesses.

     For financial statement purposes, the Company is the continuing entity and
has retained the name McKesson Corporation.  PCS is reflected as a discontinued
operation in the Company's consolidated financial statements.

     In May 1995, the Company announced its intention to repurchase from time to
time up to 3.5 million shares of its common stock in open market or private
transactions.


     Developments which could be considered significant to individual segments
of the business are described under (c)(1) "Narrative Description of Business"
on pages 1 through 6 of this report.


(b)  Financial Information About Industry Segments

     Financial information for the three years ended March 31, 1995 appears in
Financial Note 15, "Segments of Business", on pages 39 and 40 of the Appendix to
the Company's 1995 Proxy Statement, which note is incorporated herein by
reference.


(c)  Narrative Description of Business

     (1) Description of Segments of Business

          The principal segments of the Company's business are:

          Health Care Services
          Water Products
          Armor All

                                       1
<PAGE>
 
Health Care Services

PRODUCTS & MARKETS

     Wholesale Distribution of Pharmaceutical & Health Care Products -- Within
the United States and Canada, the Company is the largest wholesale distributor
of ethical and proprietary drugs and health and beauty care products.  Its
products are distributed to chain and independent drug stores, hospitals, food
stores and mass merchandisers.  This business requires large inventories,
significant amounts of which are financed by related payables.  In addition, the
Company owns a 22.7% equity interest in Nadro, S.A. de C.V. the leading
pharmaceutical wholesaler in Mexico.

     Using the name "Economost" and "Econolink" and a number of related service
marks, the Company has promoted electronic order entry systems and a wide range
of computerized merchandising and asset management services for drug retailers
and hospitals.  The Company is also a supplier of computer systems and software
for pharmacy management.

     In the United States, the Company does business under the McKesson Drug
Company tradename.  In Canada, the Company does business under the name Medis
Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc..

     Voluntary Marketing Program -- Under the Valu-Rite pharmacy program, the
Company provides its independent U.S. retail drug store customers with a common
marketing identity, group advertising, purchasing programs, promotional
merchandise and access to a pharmacy provider network.  At March 31, 1995,
approximately 5,000 stores were participating in the Valu-Rite program.  Similar
programs are available to independent drug stores through other drug
wholesalers.  The Company provides similar services to retail drug stores in
Canada.

     Millbrook Distribution Services Co. -- Millbrook Distribution Services Co.
distributes health and beauty care products, general merchandise and specialty
foods to supermarkets, drug stores and discount department stores.  The
distribution services provided include product recommendations, procurement,
warehousing, distribution, retail shelf management and temporary field labor.

     Healthcare Delivery Systems, Inc. ("HDS") -- HDS provides services designed
to meet the needs of pharmaceutical and other healthcare manufacturers in
commercializing a product and enhancing its market position.  The core activity
of HDS currently is the development of integrated systems for specialized
delivery of pharmaceutical products.  These systems manage manufacturer cost and
information requirements through a variety of services including financial
assistance programs for patients, reimbursement support and patient advocacy
programs, clinical trial support services, and product hot-line and physician
and patient information programs.

     Other -- Through its Sunmark operations, the Company supplies durable
medical equipment to the home health care industry.  Through its Central
American operation, the Company manufactures a full line of branded generic
pharmaceuticals that is distributed directly and indirectly to retailers in
Central America.  Through Zee Medical, Inc., the Company distributes first-aid
products and supplies to industrial and commercial customers.


COMPETITION


     In every area of operations, the distribution businesses (not including
HDS) face strong competition both in price and service from national, regional
and local full-line, short-line and specialty wholesalers, service
merchandisers, and from manufacturers engaged in direct distribution.  The
particular area in which HDS provides services is in a rapid state of
development and therefore there are no clearly defined markets in which HDS
competes.  It nonetheless faces competition from various other service providers
and from pharmaceutical and other healthcare manufacturers (as well as other
potential customers of HDS) which may from time to time decide to develop, for
their own internal needs, 

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
those services which are provided by HDS and other competing service providers.
Price, quality of service, and, in some cases, convenience to the customer are
generally the principal competitive elements in the industry.


INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     The principal trademarks and service marks of the Health Care Services
segment are:  ECONOMOST(R), ECONOLINK(R) and VALU-RITE(R).  The Health Care
Services segment also owns other registered and unregistered trademarks and
service marks and similar rights. All of the principal marks are registered in
the United States and registration has been obtained or applied for in Canada
with respect to such marks.  The United States federal registrations of these
trademarks and service marks have ten or twenty year terms, depending on date of
registration; the Canadian registrations have fifteen year terms.  All are
subject to unlimited renewals.  The Company believes this business has taken all
necessary steps to preserve the registration and duration of its trademarks and
service marks, although no assurance can be given that it will be able to
successfully enforce or protect its rights thereunder in the event that they are
subject to third-party infringement.  The Company does not consider any
particular patents, licenses, franchises or concessions to be material to the
business of the Health Care Services segment.


Water Products

PRODUCTS & MARKETS

     McKesson Water Products Company is primarily engaged in the processing and
sale of bottled drinking water delivered to homes and businesses under its
Sparkletts, Alhambra, and Crystal brands in California, Arizona, Nevada and
Texas.  It also sells and leases bottled water dispensers and coolers in the
foregoing states, and sells packaged water through retail stores in
approximately 40 states.  In addition, under the Aqua-Vend trademark, it sells
processed water through vending machines in California, Arizona, Nevada, Texas,
Louisiana and Florida.  Due to the nature of this business, it does not
generally (a) require significant amounts of inventory to meet the needs of its
customers or to meet its own internal supply requirements, (b) provide
significant extended payment terms to its customers or (c) otherwise have
significant working capital requirements.


COMPETITION

     Although this business faces competition from several larger competitors,
the competition is generally widely dispersed between many different entities.
Principal among the large local competitors of the Water Products segment are:
Arrowhead (California and Arizona) and Ozarka/Oasis (Texas) (both owned by
Nestle); Hinckley & Schmitt (Arizona, Las Vegas, and Southern California) and
Sierra Springs (Northern California and Texas) (both owned by Anjou Bottled
Water Group, a subsidiary of a large French water utility); Crystal Geyser
(nationally distributed); Evian (nationally distributed) (owned by Groupe
Donone, S.A.) and Glacier Water Services, Inc..  This operation faces
significant competition in both price and service in all aspects of its
business.


INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     The principal trademarks and service marks of the Water Products segment
are:  SPARKLETTS(R), ALHAMBRA(R), CRYSTAL(TM), CRYSTAL-FRESH(R) and AQUA-
VEND(R).  The McKesson Water Products Company also owns other registered and
unregistered trademarks and service marks used by the Water Products segment.
All of the principal trademarks and service marks are registered in the United
States, in addition to certain other jurisdictions.  The United States federal
registrations of these trademarks have terms of ten or twenty years, depending
on date of registration, and are subject to 

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
unlimited renewals. The Company believes this business has taken all necessary
steps to preserve the registration and duration of its trademarks and service
marks, although no assurance can be given that it will be able to successfully
enforce or protect its rights thereunder in the event that they are subject to
third-party infringement. The Company does not consider any particular patents,
licenses, franchises or concessions to be material to the business of the Water
Products segment.


Armor All

PRODUCTS & MARKETS

     The Company is engaged through its majority-owned Armor All Products
Corporation subsidiary ("Armor All") in developing and marketing a line of
branded appearance enhancement and protection products primarily for the do-it-
yourself automotive and home care markets.  Its principal brand, Armor All(R),
has the leading position in the domestic automotive protectant market.  A second
major brand, Rain Dance(R), is a strong competitor in the market for automotive
waxes, polishes and washes.  Armor All's principal product, Armor All(R)
Protectant, is designed to protect and beautify natural and synthetic polymer
materials and is used primarily on certain automobile surfaces.  Armor All's
products are marketed in the U.S. and Canada by its direct sales force and
through independent manufacturers' representatives and distributors.
International sales are effected through foreign sales offices, foreign
distributors and a marketing and distribution alliance with S.C. Johnson.
Primary customers include mass merchandise retailers, auto supply stores,
warehouse clubs, hardware stores and other retail outlets.  The Company in
recent years has extended its product lines by introducing Armor All(R) Tire
Foam(R) Protectant, Armor All(R) QuickSilver(TM) Wheel Cleaner, Armor All(R)
Protectant Low-Gloss Natural Finish, Armor All(R) Spot & Wash(TM) Concentrate,
Armor All(R) Leather Care Protectant, WAX PAX(TM) Instant Car Wax and three car
polishes under the Rain Dance name.  In January 1994, Armor All entered the home
care market with the acquisition of the E-Z Deck Wash(R) and E-Z D(TM) brands.
The E-Z Deck Wash product is designed to clean and restore wood surfaces such as
patio decks, siding and fences.  In February 1995, Armor All introduced three
new home care products:  Armor All Deck Protector, Armor All Water Proofing
Sealer and Armor All Vinyl Siding Wash.  Products which comprise a majority of
Armor All's sales volume are manufactured under full service packaging
agreements whereby contract packagers generally own the raw materials and
finished goods in their possession and transfer title to Armor All just prior to
shipment to Armor All's customers.  Armor All's use of contract packagers
permits it to avoid significant investments in inventory, machinery and other
fixed assets.  Armor All's relationships with its three most important packagers
have lasted for 7, 10 and 22 years, respectively.  Subject to contractual
arrangements, Armor All periodically reevaluates its selection of packagers, and
believes that other acceptable packagers are readily available.


COMPETITION

     In the domestic protectant market, Armor All Protectant has two principal
competitors, STP(R) Son-of-a-Gun(R) Protectant and Turtle Wax(R) Formula
2001(R), and several secondary competitors.  Armor All Tire Foam Protectant has
three principal competitors, No Touch(R), Turtle Wax(R) Formula 2001 and STP(R)
Son-of-a-Gun(R) Tire Care, and several secondary competitors.  Armor All
QuickSilver Wheel Cleaner has four principal competitors, Eagle One(R), Turtle
Wax(R) Formula 2001, Turtle Wax(R) Wheel Brite and Espree(R), and several
secondary competitors.  Armor All brand cleaner competes against many specialty
automotive cleaner products.  Armor All brand wash products and all of the Rain
Dance and Rally brand products compete with numerous wash, wax and polish
products in the automotive aftermarket.  Competition in international markets
varies by country.  Armor All believes that brand recognition and loyalty,
access to retail shelf space, product convenience and effectiveness, trade
promotion and consumer advertising, support of customers' inventory management
and marketing efforts, and pricing are important competitive factors in the
appearance protection market.  Armor All believes that it competes favorably
with respect to these factors.

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
     In the domestic home care products market, the E-Z Deck Wash brand product
has two principal competitors, Thompson's(R) Deck Wash and Olympic(R) Deck
Cleaner, and several secondary competitors.  Armor All Deck Protector and Water
Proofing Sealer each compete against products marketed under the Thompson's,
Olympic and Behr brand names.  There are no directly competitive products to
Armor All Vinyl Siding Wash.


INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     The principal trademarks and service marks of the Armor All segment are:
ARMOR ALL(R), VIKING DESIGN(R) and related designs, RAIN DANCE(R), RALLY(R), NO.
7(R), TIRE FOAM(R), QUICKSILVER(TM), SPOT & WASH(R), WAX PAX(TM), E-Z DECK
WASH(R) and E-Z D(TM).  Armor All also owns other registered and unregistered
trademarks and service marks.  All of the principal trademarks and service marks
are registered in the United States and Canada.  Such marks are also registered
in certain other foreign jurisdictions.  The United States federal registrations
of these trademarks and service marks have ten or twenty year terms, depending
on date of registration; the Canadian registrations have fifteen year terms.
All are subject to unlimited renewals.  The Company believes it has taken all
necessary steps to preserve the registration and duration of its trademarks and
service marks, although no assurance can be given that it will be able to
successfully enforce or protect its rights thereunder in the event that they are
subject to third-party infringement.

     Armor All owns a process patent on ARMOR ALL Protectant and a patent on
RAIN DANCE wax, and has applied for patents on ARMOR ALL QuickSilver Wheel
Cleaner, ARMOR ALL Spot & Wash Concentrate, WAX PAX Instant Car Wax and ARMOR
ALL Vinyl Siding Wash.  In addition, Armor All owns a patent on an E-D DECK WASH
product and has other domestic and foreign E-D DECK WASH patents pending.  Armor
All's process patent on ARMOR ALL Protectant will expire in 1996.  Armor All's
patent on RAIN DANCE wax will expire in the year 2000.  The Company believes
that Armor All's trademarks are more important assets than its patents, and that
the termination or invalidity of its patents would not have a material adverse
effect on Armor All.


OWNERSHIP

     In fiscal 1994, the Company sold to the public 5,175,000 shares and donated
to the McKesson Foundation 250,000 shares of common stock of Armor All.  An
additional 350,000 shares of Armor All common stock were donated to the McKesson
Foundation in fiscal 1995.  These transactions reduced the Company's equity
interest in Armor All from 83% to 55%.  In addition, in fiscal 1994, the Company
sold $180 million of subordinated debentures that are exchangeable, at the
option of the holders, into 6.9 million additional shares of Armor All common
stock owned by the Company, subject to the Company's right to pay cash equal to
the market price of the stock in lieu of making the exchange.  If all of the
debentures were exchanged, the Company's ownership interest in Armor All would
be reduced to approximately 22%. As a result of the foregoing, the Company may
not be able to exercise continued control over the business operations of Armor
All and may not be able to obtain the financial benefits it would otherwise have
received if it had maintained its controlling interest in Armor All.


     (2) Other Information About the Business

     Customers -- Sales to the Company's largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores,
Inc., accounted for 10% of consolidated revenues in fiscal 1995 and 1994;
however, no material part of the business is dependent upon a single or a very
few customers, the loss of any one of which could have a material adverse effect
on the Company or any of its business segments.

     Environmental Legislation -- The Company sold its chemical distribution
operations in fiscal 1987.  In connection with the disposition of those
operations, the Company retained responsibility for certain environmental
obligations and has entered into agreements with the EPA and certain states

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
pursuant to which it is or may be required to conduct environmental assessments
and cleanups at several closed sites.  These matters are described further in
Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" below.  Other than any capital expenditures which may
be required in connection with those matters, the Company does not anticipate
making substantial capital expenditures for environmental control facilities or
to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future.  The amount of
capital expenditures expended by the Company for environmental compliance was
not material in fiscal 1995 and is not expected to be material in the next
fiscal year.

     Employees -- At March 31, 1995, the Company employed approximately 12,200
persons.

     Backlog Orders -- Each of the Company's segments seeks to promptly fill or
otherwise satisfy the orders of each such segment's customers.  Accordingly,
none of the Company's segments has a significant backlog of customer orders.



(d)  Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export
     Sales

     Information as to foreign operations is included in Financial Note 15,
"Segments of Business" on pages 39 and 40 of the Appendix to the Company's 1995
Proxy Statement (the "Appendix"), which notes are incorporated herein by
reference.



ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

     Because of the nature of the Company's principal businesses, plant,
warehousing, office and other facilities are operated in widely dispersed
locations.  The warehouses are typically owned or leased on a long-term basis.
The Company considers its operating properties to be in satisfactory condition
and adequate to meet its needs for the next several years.  Information as to
material lease commitments is included in Financial Note 10, "Lease Obligations"
on page 31 of the Appendix, which note is incorporated herein by reference.  Due
to the numerous warehousing, office and other facilities utilized by the Company
in its business operations, the Company does not believe that any one of its
facilities is materially important to the Company.



ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     In addition to commitments and obligations in the ordinary course of
business, the Company is subject to various claims, other pending and possible
legal actions for product liability and other damages, investigations relating
to governmental laws and regulations, and other matters arising out of the
normal conduct of the Company's business.

     The Company is a defendant in four civil actions filed between late 1993
and March of this year by independent pharmacies.  The first proceeding,
Feitelberg v. Abbott Laboratories, is pending in the Superior Court for the
State of California (County of San Francisco) and is now referred to as
Coordinated Proceeding Special Title, Pharmaceutical Cases I, II and III.  The
second proceeding, HJB, Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories (now known as MDL 997), is
pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois.  The third proceeding, K-S Pharmacies, Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories, is
pending in the Circuit Court of Wisconsin for Dane County.  A fourth action,
Adams v. Abbott Laboratories, was filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Arkansas.  These actions were brought as purported class
actions on behalf of all other similarly-situated retail pharmacies.  A class
has been certified in MDL 997.  There are numerous other defendants in these
actions including pharmaceutical manufacturers, a pharmaceutical mail order
firm, and several other wholesale 

                                       6
<PAGE>
 
distributors. These cases allege, in essence, that the defendants have
unlawfully conspired together and agreed to fix the prices of brand name
pharmaceuticals sold to plaintiffs at artificially high, discriminatory, and 
non-competitive levels, all in violation of various state and federal antitrust
laws. Some of the plaintiffs specifically contend that the wholesaler and
manufacturer defendants are engaged in a conspiracy to fix prices charged to
plaintiffs and members of the purported classes (independent and chain retail
drug stores) above the price levels charged to mail order pharmacies, HMOs and
other institutional buyers. The California cases allege, among other things,
violation of California antitrust law. In MDL 997 and Adams, plaintiffs allege
that defendants' actions constitute price fixing in violation of the Sherman
Act. In the K-S Pharmacies, Inc. complaint, plaintiffs allege violation of
Wisconsin antitrust law. In each of the complaints, except Adams, plaintiffs
seek certification as a class and remedies in the form of injunctive relief,
unquantified monetary damages (trebled as provided by law), and attorneys fees
and costs. In addition, the California cases seek restitution. The Company
believes it has meritorious defenses to the allegations made against it and
intends to vigorously defend itself in all of these cases. In addition, the
Company has entered into a judgment sharing agreement with certain
pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants, which provides generally that the
Company (together with the other wholesale distributor defendants) will be held
harmless by such pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants and will be indemnified
against the costs of adverse judgments, if any, against the wholesaler and
manufacturers in these or similar actions, in excess of $1 million in the
aggregate per wholesale distributor defendant. Plaintiffs have attempted to have
the court declare the judgment sharing agreement unlawful, but these efforts, to
date, have been unsuccessful.

     Primarily as a result of the operation of its former chemical businesses,
which were divested in fiscal 1987, the Company is involved in numerous matters
pursuant to various environmental laws and regulations.  The Company has
received various claims and demands from governmental agencies relating to
investigative and remedial actions purportedly required to address environmental
conditions alleged to exist at six (6) sites where the Company formerly
conducted operations; and the Company, by administrative order or otherwise, has
agreed to take certain actions at those sites.  These actions include the
investigation and remediation of contamination from its (or its former
subsidiaries') former operations at the sites located in Newark, New Jersey,
Santa Fe Springs, California, Spartanburg, South Carolina, Syracuse, New York
and Union City, California.  The site in Newark, New Jersey, is being
investigated pursuant to a New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection
administrative consent order dated August 20, 1993.  The site in Santa Fe
Springs, California, is undergoing soil remediation, with an evaluation of the
ground water remediation alternatives to follow, pursuant to a California
Environmental Protection Agency Department of Toxic Substances Control consent
order dated January 8, 1990.  The current owner of the site in Spartanburg,
South Carolina, has agreed to fully indemnify the Company.  Pursuant to a New
York State Department of Environmental Conservation consent order dated August
31, 1987, the unsaturated soils at the Syracuse, New York location were
remediated; the saturated soils and groundwater are being addressed as part of a
separate operable unit.  The site in Union City, California is undergoing soil
and ground water remediation pursuant to a California Regional Water Quality
Control Board site cleanup requirements order dated June 15, 1988 .  At the
sixth site, which is undergoing a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act closure
and is located in Des Moines, Iowa, the Company has requested the EPA to
acknowledge that the site has achieved the requirements for clean closure.  The
current estimate (determined by the Company's environmental staff, in
consultation with outside environmental specialists and counsel) of the upper
limit of the Company's range of reasonably possible remediation costs for these
six (6) sites is approximately $22 million, net of amounts which third parties
have agreed to pay in settlement or which the Company expects, based either on
pending settlement offers or nonrefundable contributions which are ongoing but
are not the subject of an agreement, to be contributed by third parties.  The
$22 million is expected to be paid out between April 1995 and March 2027.
Another such Superfund site is a closed wood treatment facility formerly
operated by Mass Merchandisers, Inc. ("MMI") acquired by the Company in 1985.
In fiscal 1993, a consent decree was entered whereby the Company will remediate
the site at a cost estimated by the EPA to be approximately $11 million, with an
additional estimated contingent cost of approximately $4 million.  Through March
31, 1995, approximately $2 million had been paid out on the remediation of this
site and approximately $9 million is expected to be paid out between April 1995
and March 1998.  The $4 million additional estimated contingent cost will be
paid, if at all, between April 2000 and March 

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
2030. The anticipated costs of $22 million and $9 million are included in the
Company's recorded environmental reserves at March 31, 1995.

     In addition to the foregoing remedial actions, the Company has been asked
by current property owners to contribute to the investigation and environmental
cleanup of eight (8) properties which the Company formerly owned or leased.  At
one of these properties, the government has ordered both the Company and an
earlier former owner to investigate and remediate, and the Company is funding
the work under a reservation of rights.  One of the other properties is the
subject of an order to investigate directed both to the current owner and the
Company.  No determination has been made of the Company's liability, if any, in
proportion to other PRPs at any of these eight (8) former properties; however,
$2.5 million has been included in the Company's recorded environmental reserves
at March 31, 1995.  The Company has also been designated as a potentially
responsible party ("PRP") by the EPA under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (the "Superfund"
law), for environmental assessment and cleanup costs as the result of the
Company's alleged treatment or disposal of hazardous substances at twenty-six
(26) Superfund sites, at none of which the Company is the sole PRP.  With
respect to each of these Superfund sites, numerous other PRPs have similarly
been designated and, while the current state of the law potentially imposes
joint and several liability upon PRPs, as a practical matter costs of these
sites are typically shared with other PRPs.  In some cases the Company has
partial indemnity agreements with its insurers or an allocation or contribution
agreement with other PRPs; at 18 of the 26 sites, while there is currently no
indemnification from third parties or agreements from insurers to pay costs, the
Company's alleged waste volumes were typically small.  At three (3) of these
Superfund sites another PRP has agreed to pay 45% of the allocated share of the
Company's former subsidiary; three insurers have agreed to pay collectively 80%
of the remainder.  Such insurers have also agreed to pay 80% of the former
subsidiary's allocation at one other Superfund site, and have agreed to
indemnify 65% of the Company's allocation at seven (7) other Superfund sites.
The estimated dollar amount of the Company's liability at the twenty-six (26)
Superfund sites referenced in this paragraph is approximately $2.8 million, net
of amounts which the third parties have agreed, or are expected, to contribute.
Settlements and costs paid by the Company in Superfund matters to date have not
been significant.

     The potential costs to the Company related to all of these environmental
matters are highly uncertain due to such factors as:  the unknown magnitude of
possible pollution and cleanup costs; the complexity and evolving nature of
governmental laws and regulations and their interpretations; the timing, varying
costs and effectiveness of alternative cleanup technologies; the determination
of the Company's liability in proportion to other PRPs; and the extent, if any,
to which such costs are recoverable from insurance or other parties.  The
Company has established reserves, based on estimated total future cash flows,
which it considers to be appropriate for these environmental matters, which
reserves are net of approximately $15 million at March 31, 1995, relating to
amounts third parties have agreed to pay in settlement or which the Company
expects to be contributed by third parties, where the Company believes it is
probable that the third parties will fulfill their agreements to pay.

     Management believes, based on current knowledge and the advice of the
Company's counsel, that the outcome of the litigation and governmental
proceedings discussed in this Item 3 will not have a material adverse effect on
the Company.



ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders, through the
solicitation of proxies or otherwise, during the three months ended March 31,
1995.

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
                      Executive Officers of the Registrant


     The following table sets forth information concerning the executive
officers of the Registrant as of June 1, 1995.  The number of years of service
with the Company includes service with predecessor and acquired companies,
including McKesson.

     There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers or
directors of the Registrant.  The executive officers are chosen annually to
serve until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the next
annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors are elected and have
qualified, or until death, resignation or removal, whichever is sooner.

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

     Name            Age     Position with Registrant and Business Experience
- -----------------   -----    ---------------------------------------------------
<S>                 <C>      <C>   

Alan Seelenfreund     58     Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
                             since July 1994 and a Director since November 1994.
                             Formerly Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
                             Officer (November 1989-November 1994), a Director
                             (July 1988-November 1994) and Chief Financial
                             Officer (April 1984-April 1990) of McKesson.
                             Service with the Company - 20 years.

David E. McDowell     52     President and Chief Operating Officer since
                             September 1994 and a Director since November 1994.
                             Formerly President and Chief Operating Officer and
                             a Director (January 1992-November 1994) of
                             McKesson. Vice President and General Manager,
                             Quality and Chief Information Officer, IBM
                             Corporation (November 1990-January 1992); President
                             of IBM's National Service Division (July 1987-
                             August 1990) and Assistant General Manager 
                             (January-July 1987). Service with the Company - 
                             3.5 years.

William A. Armstrong  54     Vice President Human Resources and Administration
                             since September 1994. Formerly Vice President Human
                             Resources and Administration (April 1993-November
                             1994), Vice President Administration (July 1991-
                             April 1993) and Executive Assistant to the Office
                             of the Chief Executive (1990-April 1992) of
                             McKesson. Service with the Company - 23 years.

Michael T. Dalby      49     Vice President Strategic Planning since September
                             1994. Principal at McKinsey & Company, Inc., an
                             international management consulting firm (1988-
                             1994). Service with the Company - 8 months.

Jon W. d'Alessio      48     Treasurer since September 1994. Formerly Treasurer
                             (January 1992-November 1994), Staff Vice President
                             Corporate Treasury (November 1991-January 1992) and
                             Staff Vice President and Chief Information Officer
                             (1990-November 1991) of McKesson. Service with the
                             Company - 17 years.

Kevin B. Ferrell      47     Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since
                             October 1994. Executive Vice President of Global
                             Investment Management at Bank of America (1993-
                             March 1994). Other positions in the last 18 years,
                             all associated with Bank of America: President and
                             Director of SeaFirst Bank, Senior Vice President
                             and Head of Corporate Banking in San Francisco and
                             Senior Vice President of Finance and Treasury.
                             Service with the Company - 7 months.

</TABLE> 

                                       9
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

     Name            Age     Position with Registrant and Business Experience
- -----------------   -----    ---------------------------------------------------
<S>                 <C>      <C>   

Richard H. Hawkins    45     Vice President and Controller of the Company since
                             September 1994. Formerly Vice President (April 1993-
                             November 1994) and Controller (April 1990-November
                             1994) of McKesson, Chief Financial Officer
                             (September 1993-November 1994) of McKesson's Drug
                             Company division and Vice President Finance
                             (February 1991-April 1993) of McKesson's
                             Distribution Group. Service with the Company - 11
                             years.

David L. Mahoney      40     Vice President and President of Healthcare Delivery
                             Systems, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
                             Company, since September 1994. Formerly Vice
                             President Strategic Planning (July 1990-September
                             1994) of McKesson. Principal at McKinsey & Company,
                             Inc., an international management consulting firm
                             (1987-July 1990). Service with the Company - 5
                             years.

Ivan D. Meyerson      50     Vice President and General Counsel since July 1994.
                             Formerly Vice President and General Counsel
                             (January 1987-November 1994) of McKesson. Service
                             with the Company - 17 years.

Nancy A. Miller       51     Vice President and Corporate Secretary since July
                             1994. Formerly Vice President and Corporate
                             Secretary (December 1989-November 1994) of
                             McKesson. Service with the Company - 17 years.


Charles A. Norris     50     Vice President and President of McKesson Water
                             Products Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
                             Company, since September 1994. Formerly Vice
                             President (April 1993-November 1994) and President
                             (May 1990-November 1994) of McKesson Water Products
                             Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of McKesson.
                             President of Deer Park Water Company, a bottled
                             drinking water firm (1981-May 1990). Service with
                             the Company - 5 years.


Garret A. Scholz      55     Vice President Finance since July 1994. Formerly
                             Vice President Finance (April 1990-November 1994)
                             and Vice President and Treasurer (November 1984-
                             April 1990) of McKesson. Service with the Company -
                             22 years.


James H. Smith        51     Vice President and President of the McKesson Drug
                             Company division since September 1994. Formerly
                             Vice President and President (February-November
                             1994) of the McKesson Drug Company division of
                             McKesson. Senior Vice President of Avnet, Inc., a
                             distributor of electrical and computer components
                             (1990-February 1994); Executive Vice President of
                             the Hamilton Hallmark Division (1990-February 1994)
                             and Vice President of the Hamilton Avnet Division
                             (1986-1990). Service with the Company - 1.3 years.
</TABLE> 

                                       10
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART II



ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED
           STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

(a)  Market Information

     The principal market on which the Company's common stock is traded is the
New York Stock Exchange.  High and low prices for the common stock by quarter
appear in Financial Note 17, "Quarterly Financial Information" on pages 43 and
44 of the Appendix which note is incorporated herein by reference.


(b)  Holders

     The number of record holders of the Company's common stock as of March 31,
1995 was 15,765.



(c)  Dividends

     Dividend information is included in Financial Note 17, "Quarterly Financial
Information" on pages 43 and 44 of the Appendix, which note is incorporated
herein by reference.



ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     Selected financial data is shown on pages 2 to 5 of the Appendix and is
incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
           RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Management's discussion and analysis of the Company's financial condition
and results of operations appears in the Financial Review on pages 6 to 16 of
the Appendix and is incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data appear on pages 20 to 44 of the
Appendix and are incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
           FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.

                                       11
<PAGE>
 
                                   PART III



ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information with respect to Directors of the Company is incorporated by
reference from the Company's 1995 Proxy Statement (the "Proxy Statement").
Certain information relating to Executive Officers of the Company appears at
pages 9 and 10 of this Form 10-K Annual Report.  The information with respect to
this item required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by
reference from the Company's 1995 Proxy Statement.



ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Information with respect to this item is incorporated herein by reference
from the Company's Proxy Statement.



ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Information with respect to this item is incorporated herein by reference
from the Company's Proxy Statement.



ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Information with respect to certain transactions with management is
incorporated by reference from the Company's Proxy Statement.

                                       12
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART IV



ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K


(a)  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

     The following consolidated financial statements of the Company and the
Independent Auditors' Report are included on pages 19 to 44 of the Appendix and
are incorporated by reference in Item 8:

     Independent Auditors' Report

     Consolidated Financial Statements

          Statements of Consolidated Income for the years ended
           March 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

          Consolidated Balance Sheets, March 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

          Statements of Consolidated Stockholders' Equity for the years
           ended March 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

          Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows for the years ended
           March 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

      Financial Notes

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

          The following are included herein:                                Page
                                                                            ----
          <S>                                                               <C> 

          Independent Auditors' Report on Supplementary Financial Schedule   15

          Supplementary Financial Schedule:

            II  Consolidated Valuation and Qualifying Accounts               16
</TABLE> 


     Financial statements and schedules not included or incorporated by
reference herein have been omitted because of the absence of conditions under
which they are required or because the required information, where material, is
shown in the financial statements, financial notes or supplementary financial
information.

     Exhibits submitted with this Form 10-K as filed with the SEC and those
incorporated by reference to other filings are listed on the Exhibit Index on
pages 17 through 20.


(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

     None.

                                       13
<PAGE>
 
                                  SIGNATURES



     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                      McKESSON CORPORATION


Date:  May 26, 1995                   By: /s/Kevin B. Ferrell
                                          -------------------------------------
                                          Kevin B. Ferrell, Vice President
                                           and Chief Financial Officer



     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below on May 26, 1995 by the following persons on behalf
of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated:


/s/Alan Seelenfreund                      /s/David E. McDowell
- -------------------------------------     --------------------------------------
Alan Seelenfreund, Chairman and Chief     David E. McDowell, President and Chief
 Executive Officer and Director            Operating Officer and Director


/s/Kevin B. Ferrell                       /s/Richard H. Hawkins
- -------------------------------------     --------------------------------------
Kevin B. Ferrell, Vice President          Richard H. Hawkins, Vice President
 and Chief Financial Officer               and Controller


                                          /s/Tully M. Friedman
- -------------------------------------     --------------------------------------
Mary G.F. Bitterman, Director             Tully M. Friedman, Director


/s/James R. Harvey                        /s/George M. Keller
- -------------------------------------     --------------------------------------
James R. Harvey, Director                 George M. Keller, Director


/s/Leslie L. Luttgens                     /s/John M. Pietruski
- -------------------------------------     --------------------------------------
Leslie L. Luttgens, Director              John M. Pietruski, Director


/s/Jane E. Shaw                           /s/Robert H. Waterman
- -------------------------------------     --------------------------------------
Jane E. Shaw, Director                    Robert H. Waterman, Jr., Director

                                       14
<PAGE>
 
                        INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON
                        SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL SCHEDULE



The Stockholders and Board of Directors of McKesson Corporation:


We have audited the consolidated financial statements of McKesson Corporation
and subsidiaries as of March 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, and for the years then
ended and have issued our report thereon dated May 12, 1995 which expresses an
unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to the
Corporation's change in its method of accounting for postemployment benefits;
such consolidated financial statements and report are included in the Appendix
to your Proxy Statement for the 1995 annual meeting of stockholders of the
Corporation and are incorporated herein by reference.  Our audits also included
the consolidated supplementary financial schedule of McKesson Corporation,
listed in Item 14(a).  This consolidated supplementary financial schedule is the
responsibility of the Corporation's management.  Our responsibility is to
express an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, such consolidated
supplementary financial schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.


/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
San Francisco, California
May 12, 1995

                                       15
<PAGE>
 
                                                                     Schedule II
                      McKESSON CORPORATION - CONSOLIDATED
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
               FOR THE YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 1995, 1994 AND 1993
                                 (in thousands)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
      Column A                      Column B          Column C           Column D         Column E
- ---------------------------------  ----------  ----------------------  -------------  ----------------
                                                      Additions             
                                               ----------------------
                                   Balance at  Charged to  Charged to
                                   Beginning   Costs and     Other                       Balance at
     Description                    of Period   Expenses    Accounts    Deductions     End of Period
- ---------------------------------  ----------  ----------  ----------  -------------  ----------------
<S>                                <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>            <C> 
 
AMOUNTS DEDUCTED FROM
  ASSETS TO WHICH THEY APPLY:
 
Year Ended March 31, 1995
- -------------------------
 
     Allowances for doubtful
       accounts receivable            $18,637     $49,452     $     -    $24,505         $43,584          
     Other reserves                    15,599       6,066           -      5,621          16,044          
                                      -------     -------     -------    -------         -------          
                                      $34,236     $55,518     $     -    $30,126/(1)/    $59,628/(2)/     
                                      =======     =======     =======    =======         =======          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
Year Ended March 31, 1994                                                                                 
- -------------------------                                                                                 
                                                                                                          
     Allowances for doubtful                                                                              
       accounts receivable            $26,346     $ 9,994     $     1    $17,704         $18,637          
     Other reserves                    14,886       5,144           -      4,431          15,599          
                                      -------     -------     -------    -------         -------          
                                      $41,232     $15,138     $     1    $22,135/(1)/    $34,236/(2)/     
                                      =======     =======     =======    =======         =======          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
Year Ended March 31, 1993                                                                                 
- -------------------------                                                                                 
                                                                                                          
     Allowances for doubtful                                                                              
       accounts receivable            $19,585     $17,670     $    76    $10,985         $26,346          
     Other reserves                    13,823       3,855           -      2,792          14,886          
                                      -------     -------     -------    -------         -------          
                                      $33,408     $21,525     $    76    $13,777/(1)/    $41,232/(2)/ 
                                      =======     =======     =======    =======         =======
<CAPTION> 

- -------------------------------------------

NOTES:                                             1995        1994        1993  
                                                  ------      ------      ------ 
                                                                                 
<S>                                               <C>         <C>         <C>    
      1  Deductions:                                                             
           Written off                            $27,491     $17,704     $12,995
           Credited to other accounts               2,635       4,431         782
                                                  -------     -------     -------
               Total                              $30,126     $22,135     $13,777
                                                  =======     =======     ======= 
 
      2  Amounts shown as deductions from:
           Current receivables                    $56,023     $30,826     $38,014
           Other assets                             3,605       3,410       3,218
                                                  -------     -------     -------
               Total                              $59,628     $34,236     $41,232
                                                  =======     =======     =======
</TABLE>

                                       16
<PAGE>
 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

Exhibit
Number                               Description 
- -------   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>       <C> 


 2.1      Restructuring and Distribution Agreement dated as of July 10, 1994, by
          and among McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Old
          McKesson"), McKesson Corporation, a Maryland corporation ("Maryland"),
          Clinical Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("CPI"), PCS Health Systems, Inc.
          ("PCS") and the Company (Exhibit 2.1 (1)).

 2.2      Amendment, dated as of October 10, 1994, by and among Old McKesson,
          Maryland, CPI, PCS and the Company, which amends the Distribution
          Agreement (Exhibit 2.2 (3)).

 2.3      Second Amendment, dated as of November 3, 1994, by and among Old
          McKesson, Maryland, CPI, PCS and the Company, which amends the
          Distribution Agreement (Exhibit 2.5 (5)).

 2.4      Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 10, 1994, by and among
          Old McKesson, Eli Lilly and Company ("Parent") and ECO Acquisition
          Corporation (the "Purchaser") (Exhibit 2.3 (4)).


 2.5      Amendment, dated as of August 8, 1994, by and among Old McKesson,
          Parent and Purchaser, which amends the Merger Agreement (Exhibit 2.4
          (5))

 3.1      Corrected Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as 
          filed with the Office of the Delaware Secretary of State on June 9, 
          1995. 

 3.2      Restated By-Laws of the Company, as amended through April 26, 1995.

 4        Rights Agreement dated as of September 14, 1994 between the Company
          and First Chicago Trust Company of New York, as Rights Agent (Exhibit
          4.1 (4)).

10.1      Tax Sharing Agreement, dated as of July 10, 1994, among the Company,
          Old McKesson, Parent and the Purchaser (Exhibit 10.1 (1)).

10.2      HDS Services Agreement, dated as of July 10, 1994, among Parent, PCS
          and Healthcare Delivery Systems, Inc. (Exhibit 10.2 (1)).

10.3      McKesson Services Agreement, dated as of July 10, 1994, between PCS
          and the Company (Exhibit 10.3 (1)).

10.4      Memorandum of Understanding, dated as of July 10, 1994, between Parent
          and the Company (Exhibit 10.4 (1)).

10.5      Non-Competition Agreement, dated as of July 10, 1994, between the
          Company, Old McKesson, the Purchaser and Parent (Exhibit 10.5 (1)).

10.6      McKesson Corporation 1994 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan
          (Amended Effective April 26, 1995) (Exhibit A (6)).

10.7      McKesson Corporation Supplemental PSIP (Exhibit 10.7 (2)).

10.8      McKesson Corporation Deferred Compensation Administration Plan
          (Exhibit 10.8 (2)).

</TABLE> 

                                       17
<PAGE>
 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

<TABLE>
<CAPTION> 

Exhibit 
Number                               Description
- -------   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>       <C>

10.9      McKesson Corporation Deferred Compensation Administration Plan II
          (Exhibit 10.9 (2)).


10.10     McKesson Corporation Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan (Exhibit
          10.10 (2)).

10.11     McKesson Corporation 1985 Directors' Elective Deferred Compensation
          Plan (Exhibit 10.11 (2)).


10.12     McKesson Corporation 1994 Option Gain Deferral Plan (Exhibit 10.12
          (3)).


10.13     McKesson Corporation 1985 Executives' Elective Deferred Compensation
          Plan (Exhibit 10.13 (2)).

10.14     McKesson Corporation Management Deferred Compensation Plan (Exhibit
          10.14 (2)).

10.15     McKesson Corporation 1984 Executive Benefit Retirement Plan (Exhibit
          10.15 (2)).


10.16     McKesson Corporation 1988 Executive Survivor Benefits Plan (Exhibit
          10.16 (2)).

10.17     McKesson Corporation Executive Medical Plan Summary (Exhibit 10.17
          (3)).

10.18     McKesson Corporation 1988 Management Survivor Benefits Plan (Exhibit
          10.18 (2)).


10.19     McKesson Corporation Severance Policy for Executive Employees (Exhibit
          10.19 (2)).


10.20     McKesson Corporation 1989 Management Incentive Plan (Amended and
          Restated Effective April 26, 1995) (Exhibit B (6)).

10.21     McKesson Corporation 1981 Long-Term Incentive Plan (Exhibit 10.21
          (2)).


10.22     McKesson Corporation 1973 Stock Purchase Plan (Exhibit 10.22 (2)).

10.23     Form of Termination Agreement by and between the Company and certain
          designated Executive Officers.

10.24     Description of McKesson Corporation Retirement Program for Nonemployee
          Directors.


10.25     Credit Agreement entered into as of March 31, 1995, among the Company,
          Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services, Inc., an indirect wholly-
          owned subsidiary of the Company, the several financial institutions
          from time to time party to the agreement (collectively the "Banks"),
          Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, as Agent for
          the Banks, Chemical Bank, as Co-Agent for the Banks and Bank of
          America Canada, as Canadian Administrative Agent.


10.26     Custodial Agreement Acknowledgment entered into as of March 31, 1995,
          among the Company and Bank of America National Trust and Savings
          Association (the "Custodian") in its capacity as Custodian under the
          Custodial Agreement and as Agent for the Banks from time to time party
          to the Credit Agreement.
</TABLE> 

                                       18
<PAGE>
 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

<TABLE>
<CAPTION> 

Exhibit 
Number                               Description
- -------   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>       <C>

10.27     Pledge Agreement entered into as of March 31, 1995 among the Company
          (the "Pledgor") and Bank of America National Trust and Savings
          Association, as Agent for the Banks from time to time party to the
          Credit Agreement.


10.28     Guaranty entered into as of March 31, 1995 by the Company (the
          "Guarantor"), in favor of and for the benefit of Bank of America
          National Trust and Savings Association, as Agent for and
          representative of the Banks party to the Credit Agreement.


11        Computation of Earnings Per Common Share for the Five Years Ended
          March 31, 1995.


13        1995 Annual Report to Security Holders Pursuant to Rule 14a-3(b). (7)


21        List of Subsidiaries of the Company.


23        Independent Auditors' Consent.


27        Financial Data Schedule.

</TABLE> 

Footnotes to Exhibit Index:


(1) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's
    Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Commission on July 27,
    1994, File No. 1-13252.


(2) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to Amendment No. 1 to the
    Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Commission on
    August 26, 1994, File No. 1-13252.


(3) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to Amendment No. 2 to the
    Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Commission on
    October 11, 1994, File No. 1-13252.


(4) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to Amendment No. 3 to the
    Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Commission on
    October 27, 1994, File No. 1-13252.


(5) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to Amendment No. 4 to the
    Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Commission on
    November 7, 1994, File No. 1-13252.


(6) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit attached to the Company's
    definitive Proxy Statement dated June 9, 1995 for the Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders to be held on  July 26, 1995.


(7) Filed as an Appendix to the Company's definitive Proxy Statement dated June
    9, 1995 for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on July 26, 1995,
    and incorporated by reference herein.

                                       19
<PAGE>
 
                 Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements




 1. McKesson Corporation 1994 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan (Amended   
    Effective April 26, 1995).                                                
                                                                               
 2. McKesson Corporation Supplemental PSIP.                                    
                                                                               
 3. McKesson Corporation Deferred Compensation Administration Plan.            
                                                                               
 4. McKesson Corporation Deferred Compensation Administration Plan II.         
                                                                               
                                                                               
 5. McKesson Corporation Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan.                
                                                                               
 6. McKesson Corporation 1985 Directors' Elective Deferred Compensation Plan.  
                                                                               
                                                                               
 7. McKesson Corporation 1994 Option Gain Deferral Plan.                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
 8. McKesson Corporation 1985 Executives' Elective Deferred Compensation Plan. 
                                                                               
 9. McKesson Corporation Management Deferred Compensation Plan.                 

10. McKesson Corporation 1984 Executive Benefit Retirement Plan.

11. McKesson Corporation 1988 Executive Survivor Benefits Plan.

12. McKesson Corporation Executive Medical Plan Summary.

13. McKesson Corporation 1988 Management Survivor Benefits Plan.

14. McKesson Corporation Severance Policy for Executive Employees.

15. McKesson Corporation 1989 Management Incentive Plan (Amended and Restated
    Effective April 26, 1995).

16. McKesson Corporation 1981 Long-Term Incentive Plan.

17. McKesson Corporation 1973 Stock Purchase Plan.

18. Form of Termination Agreement by and between the Company and certain
    designated Executive Officers.

19. Description of McKesson Corporation Retirement Program for Nonemployee
    Directors.

                                       20
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>CORRECTED RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 3.1

                                   CORRECTED

                    RESTATED CERTIFICATION OF INCORPORATION

                                      OF

                             McKESSON CORPORATION

It is hereby certified that:

1. The name of the corporation (hereinafter called the "Corporation") is 
McKesson Corporation.

2. A Restated Certification of Incorporation of the Corporation was filed with 
the Secretary of State, State of Delaware, on March 29, 1995.

3. The Restated Certificate of Incorporation contained inacccuracies in the 
heading and in the introductory paragraphs preceding Article I in that the 
former name of the Corporation was omitted from the heading and that it 
contained references to Sections 141(f) and 242. A paragraph also stated that 
the Restatement was further amending the Certificate of Incorporation which was 
incorrect.

4. The Restated Certificate of Incorporation is corrected in its entirety in the
form attached hereto as Exhibit A.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, SAID McKesson Corporation has caused this Certificate 
to be signed by Nancy A. Miller, its Vice President.

                                           McKESSON CORPORATION

Date: June 9, 1995

                                           By  /s/ Nancy A. Miller
                                             --------------------------------
                                                Nancy A. Miller
                                                Vice President
 

<PAGE>
 
                                                                     Exhibit A



                               CORRECTED RESTATED
                          CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
                                       OF
                              McKESSON CORPORATION
                    (Originally Incorporated on July 7, 1994
                      Under the Name of SP Ventures, Inc.)



                                   ARTICLE I.

The name of the Corporation is McKesson Corporation.


                                  ARTICLE II.

The address of the registered office of the Corporation within the State of
Delaware is 32 Loockerman Square, Suite L-100, City of Dover 19901, County of
Kent. The name of the registered agent of the Corporation at such address is The
Prentice-Hall Corporation System, Inc.


                                  ARTICLE III.

The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for
which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the
State of Delaware.


                                  ARTICLE IV.

The total number of shares of stock of all classes which the Corporation has
authority to issue is 300,000,000 shares, divided into 100,000,000 shares of
Series Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (herein called the "Series
Preferred Stock"), and 200,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $.01 per
share (herein called the "Common Stock"). The aggregate par value of all shares
having par value is $3,000,000.

The Board of Directors of the Corporation is expressly authorized, as shall be
stated and expressed in the resolution or resolutions it adopts, subject to
limitations prescribed by law and the provisions of this Article IV, to provide
for the issuance of the shares of Series Preferred Stock in one or more class or
series, in addition to the shares thereof specifically provided for in this
Article IV, and by filing a certificate pursuant to the applicable law of the
State of Delaware, to establish from time to time the number of shares to be
included in each such series, and to fix for each such class or series such
voting powers, full or limited, or no voting powers, and such distinctive
designations, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other
special rights and such qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof,
including without limitation, the authority to provide that any such class or
series may be (i) subject to redemption at such time or times and at such price
or prices; (ii) entitled to receive dividends (which may be cumulative or non-
cumulative) at such rates, on such conditions, and at such times, and payable in
preference to, or in relation to, the dividends payable on any other class or
classes or any other series; (iii) entitled to such rights upon the dissolution
of, or upon any distribution of the assets of, the Corporation; (iv) convertible


                                       1
<PAGE>
 
into, or exchangeable for, shares of any other class or classes of stock, or of
any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock, of the
Corporation at such price or prices or at such rates of exchange and with such
adjustments; or (v) subject to the terms and amounts of any sinking fund
provided for the purchase or redemption of the shares of such series; all as may
be stated in such resolution or resolutions.

The number of authorized shares of Series Preferred Stock may be increased or
decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the
affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the Common Stock, without a
vote of the holders of the Series Preferred Stock, as the case may be, or of any
series thereof, unless a vote of any such holders is required pursuant to the
provisions of this Article IV or the certificate or certificates establishing
any additional series of such stock.

A description of each class of the Corporation's stock, with the powers,
designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other
rights, if any, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, is
as follows:


I.  SERIES PREFERRED STOCK

A.  General Provisions Relating to All Series

1. The Board of Directors shall have authority to classify and reclassify any
unissued shares of the Series Preferred Stock from time to time by setting or
changing in any one or more respects the powers, designations, preferences and
relative, participating, optional and other rights, if any, and the
qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series Preferred Stock.
Subject to the foregoing, the power of the Board of Directors to classify and
reclassify any of the shares of Series Preferred Stock shall include, without
limitation, subject to the provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation,
authority to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of such stock into one
or more series of Series Preferred Stock, and to divide and classify shares of
any series into one or more series of Series Preferred Stock by determining,
fixing or altering one or more of the following:

  (a) The distinctive designation of such series and the number of shares to
  constitute such series; provided that, unless otherwise prohibited by the
  terms of such or any other series, the number of shares of any series may be
  decreased by the Board of Directors in connection with any classification or
  reclassification of unissued shares and the number of shares of such series
  may be increased by the Board of Directors in connection with any such
  classification or reclassification, and any shares of any series which have
  been redeemed, purchased, otherwise acquired or converted into shares of
  Common Stock or any other series shall remain part of the authorized Series
  Preferred Stock and be subject to classification and reclassification as
  provided in this Section.

  (b) Whether or not and, if so, the rates, amounts and times at which, and the
  conditions under which, dividends shall be payable on shares of such series,
  whether any such dividends shall rank senior or junior to or on a parity with
  the dividends payable on any other series of Series Preferred Stock, and the
  status of any such dividends as cumulative, cumulative to a limited extent or
  non-cumulative and as participating or non-participating.

  (c) Whether or not shares of such series shall have voting rights, in addition
  to any voting rights provided by law and, if so, the terms of such voting
  rights.

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
  (d) Whether or not shares of such series shall have conversion or exchange
  privileges and, if so, the terms and conditions thereof, including provision
  for adjustment of the conversion or exchange rate in such events or at such
  times as the Board of Directors shall determine.

  (e) Whether or not shares of such series shall be subject to redemption and,
  if so, the terms and conditions of such redemption, including the date or
  dates upon or after which they shall be redeemable and the amount per share
  payable in case of redemption, which amount may vary under different
  conditions and at different redemption dates; and whether or not there shall
  be any sinking fund or purchase account in respect thereof, and if so, the
  terms thereof.

  (f) The rights of the holders of shares of such series upon the liquidation,
  dissolution or winding up of the affairs of, or upon any distribution of the
  assets of, the Corporation, which rights may vary depending upon whether such
  liquidation, dissolution or winding up is voluntary or involuntary and, if
  voluntary, may vary at different dates, and whether such rights shall rank
  senior or junior to or on a parity with such rights of any other series of
  Series Preferred Stock.

  (g) Whether or not there shall be any limitations applicable, while shares of
  such series are outstanding, upon the payment of dividends or making of
  distributions on, or the acquisition of, or the use of moneys for purchase or
  redemption of, any stock of the Corporation, or upon any other action of the
  Corporation, including action under this Section, and, if so, the terms and
  conditions thereof .

  (h) Any other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating,
  optional and other rights, if any, and any other qualifications, limitations
  and restrictions, on the shares of such series, not inconsistent with law and
  this Certificate of Incorporation.

2. For the purposes hereof and of any certificate providing for the
classification or reclassification of any shares of Series Preferred Stock or of
any other charter document of the Corporation (unless otherwise provided in any
such certificate or document), any class or series of stock of the Corporation
shall be deemed to rank:

  (a) Prior to a particular class or series of stock if the holders of such
  class or classes or series shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of
  amounts distributable in the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding
  up, as the case may be, in preference to or with priority over the holders of
  such particular class or series of stock;

  (b) On a parity with a particular class or series of stock, whether or not the
  dividend rates, dividend payment dates, voting rights or redemption or
  liquidation prices per share thereof, be different from those of such
  particular class or series of stock, if the rights of holders of such class or
  classes or series to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable in
  event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, shall
  be neither (i) in preference to, or with priority over, nor (ii) subject or
  subordinate to, the rights of holders of such particular class or series of
  stock in respect of the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable in
  the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, as
  the case may be; and

  (c) Junior to a particular class or series of stock if the rights of the
  holders of such class or classes or series shall be subject or subordinate to
  the rights of the holders of such particular class or series of stock in
  respect of the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable in the event
  of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be.

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
B.  Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock

1.  Designation and Amount. The shares of this series shall be designated as
"Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" and the number of shares
constituting such series shall initially be 10,000,000, par value $0.01 per
share, such number of shares to be subject to increase or decrease by action of
the Board of Directors as evidenced by a certificate or certificates evidencing
such change.

2. Dividends and Distributions.

  (a) The holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
  shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of
  Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends
  payable in cash on the first business day of January, April, July and October
  in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Series A Quarterly
  Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Series A Quarterly Dividend
  Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of
  Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded
  to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (i) $10.00 or (ii) subject to the
  provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 100 times the aggregate per
  share amount of all cash dividends, and 100 times the aggregate per share
  amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions
  other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of
  the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise),
  declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Series A
  Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the first Series A
  Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or
  fraction of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. In the
  event the Corporation shall at any time after November 1, 1994 (the "Rights
  Declaration Date") (A) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares
  of Common Stock, (B) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (C) combine
  the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each
  such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Junior
  Participating Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event
  under clause (ii) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying
  such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of
  Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of
  which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding
  immediately prior to such event.

  (b) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A
  Junior Participating Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (a) above
  immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock
  (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in
  the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common
  Stock during the period between any Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment Date
  and the next subsequent Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend
  of $10.00 per share on the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall
  nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment
  Date.

  (c) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of
  Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock from the Series A Quarterly
  Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares of
  Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, unless the date of issue of
  such shares is prior to the record date for the first Series A Quarterly
  Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to
  accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a
  Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date
  for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating
  Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such
  Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such


                                       4
<PAGE>
 
  dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Series A Quarterly
  Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest.
  Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
  in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued
  and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share
  basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors
  may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A
  Junior Participating Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend
  or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be no more than 30
  days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.

3. Voting Rights. The holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:

  (a) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share
  of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder
  thereof to 100 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of
  the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the
  Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in
  shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii)
  combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in
  each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of
  Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior
  to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction the
  numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
  immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of
  shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.

  (b) Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, the holders of shares of
  Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of
  Common Stock shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a
  vote of stockholders of the Corporation.

  (c) (i) If at any time dividends on any Series A Junior Participating
      Preferred Stock shall be in arrears in an amount equal to six (6)
      quarterly dividends thereon, the occurrence of such contingency shall mark
      the beginning of a period (herein called a "default period") which shall
      extend until such time when all accrued and unpaid dividends for all
      previous quarterly dividend periods and for the current quarterly dividend
      period on all shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock then
      outstanding shall have been declared and paid or set apart for payment.
      During each default period, all holders of Series Preferred Stock,
      (including holders of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock)
      with dividends in arrears in an amount equal to six (6) quarterly
      dividends thereon, voting as a class, irrespective of series, shall have
      the right to elect two (2) Directors.

     (ii) During any default period, such voting right of the holders of Series
     A Junior Participating Preferred Stock may be exercised initially at a
     special meeting called pursuant to subparagraph (iii) of this Section 3(c)
     or at any annual meeting of stockholders, and thereafter at annual meetings
     of stockholders, provided that neither such voting right nor the right of
     the holders of any other series of Series Preferred Stock, if any, to
     increase, in certain cases, the authorized number of Directors shall be
     exercised unless the holders of ten percent (10%) in number of shares of
     Series Preferred Stock outstanding shall be present in person or by proxy.
     The absence of a quorum of the holders of Common Stock shall not affect the
     exercise by the holders of Series Preferred Stock of such voting right. At
     any meeting at which the holders of Series Preferred Stock shall exercise
     such voting right initially during an existing default period, they shall
     have the right, voting as a class, to elect Directors to fill such
     vacancies, if any, in the Board of Directors as may then exist up to two
     (2) Directors or, if such right is exercised at an annual meeting, to elect
     two (2)


                                       5
<PAGE>
 
     Directors. If the number which may be so elected at any special meeting
     does not amount to the required number, the holders of the Series Preferred
     Stock shall have the right to make such increase in the number of Directors
     as shall be necessary to permit the election by them of the required
     number. After the holders of the Series Preferred Stock shall have
     exercised their right to elect Directors in any default period and during
     the continuance of such period, the number of Directors shall not be
     increased or decreased except by vote of the holders of Series Preferred
     Stock as herein provided or pursuant to the rights of any equity securities
     ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series A Junior Participating
                          ---- -----                                       
     Preferred Stock.

     (iii) Unless the holders of Series Preferred Stock shall, during an
     existing default period, have previously exercised their right to elect
     Directors, the Board of Directors may order, or any stockholder or
     stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than ten percent (10%) of the
     total number of shares of Series Preferred Stock outstanding, irrespective
     of series, may request, the calling of a special meeting of the holders of
     Series Preferred Stock, which meeting shall thereupon be called by the
     President, a Vice-President or the Secretary of the Corporation. Notice of
     such meeting and of any annual meeting at which holders of Series Preferred
     Stock are entitled to vote pursuant to this paragraph (c)(iii) shall be
     given to each holder of record of Series Preferred Stock by mailing a copy
     of such notice to him at his last address as the same appears on the books
     of the Corporation. Such meeting shall be called for a time not earlier
     than 20 days and not later than 60 days after such order or request or in
     default of the calling of such meeting within 60 days after such order or
     request, such meeting may be called on similar notice by any stockholder or
     stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than ten percent (10%) of the
     total number of shares of Series Preferred Stock outstanding.
     Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (c)(iii), no such special
     meeting shall be called during the period within 60 days immediately
     preceding the date fixed for the next annual meeting of the stockholders.

     (iv) In any default period, the holders of Common Stock, and other classes
     of stock of the Corporation if applicable, shall continue to be entitled to
     elect the whole number of Directors until the holders of Series Preferred
     Stock shall have exercised their right to elect two (2) Directors voting as
     a class, after the exercise of which right (A) the Directors so elected by
     the holders of Series Preferred Stock shall continue in office until their
     successors shall have been elected by such holders or until the expiration
     of the default period, and (B) any vacancy in the Board of Directors may
     (except as provided in paragraph (c)(ii) of this Section 3) be filled by
     vote of a majority of the remaining Directors theretofore elected by the
     holders of the class of stock which elected the Director whose office shall
     have become vacant. References in this paragraph (c) to Directors elected
     by the holders of a particular class of stock shall include Directors
     elected by such Directors to fill vacancies as provided in clause (B) of
     the preceding sentence.

     (v) Immediately upon the expiration of a default period, (A) the right of
     the holders of Series Preferred Stock as a class to elect Directors shall
     cease, (B) the term of any Directors elected by the holders of Series
     Preferred Stock as a class shall terminate, and (C) the number of Directors
     shall be such number as may be provided for in this Certificate of
     Incorporation or the By-laws of the Corporation irrespective of any
     increase made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c)(ii) of this
     Section 3 (such number being subject, however, to change thereafter in any
     manner provided by law or in this Certificate of Incorporation or the By-
     laws of the Corporation). Any vacancies in the Board of Directors effected
     by the provisions of clauses (B) and (C) in the preceding sentence may be
     filled by a majority of the remaining Directors.


                                       6
<PAGE>
 
  (d) Except as set forth herein or as otherwise required by applicable law,
  holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall have no special
  voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent
  they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein)
  for taking any corporate action.

4.  Certain Restrictions.

  (a) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable
  on the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2
  are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and
  distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Junior
  Participating Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the
  Corporation shall not

     (i) declare or pay dividends on, make any other distributions on, or redeem
     or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock
     ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or
     winding up) to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock;

     (ii) declare or pay dividends on or make any other distributions on any
     shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon
     liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Junior
     Participating Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series
     A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which
     dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to
     which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;

     (iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of
     any stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation,
     dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred
     Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or
     otherwise acquire shares of any such parity stock in exchange for shares of
     any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon
     dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Junior
     Participating Preferred Stock;

     (iv) purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A
     Junior Participating Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a
     parity with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, except in
     accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as
     determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon
     such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective
     annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the
     respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in
     fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.

  (b) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to
  purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the
  Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (a) of this Section
  4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.

5.  Reacquired Shares. Any shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner
whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition
thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but
unissued shares of Series Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new
series of Series Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of
the Board of Directors, subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance
set forth herein.

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
6.  Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up.

  (a) Upon any liquidation (voluntary or otherwise), dissolution or winding up
  of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made to the holders of shares of
  stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution
  or winding up) to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock unless,
  prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating
  Preferred Stock shall have received $100 per share, plus an amount equal to
  accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not
  declared, to the date of such payment (the "Series A Liquidation Preference").
  Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation
  Preference, no additional distributions shall be made to the holders of shares
  of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the
  holders of shares of Common Stock shall have received an amount per share (the
  "Common Adjustment") equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the Series
  A Liquidation Preference by (ii) 100 (as appropriately adjusted as set forth
  in subparagraph C below to reflect such events as stock splits, stock
  dividends and recapitalizations with respect to the Common Stock) (such number
  in clause (ii), the "Adjustment Number"). Following the payment of the full
  amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the Common Adjustment in
  respect of all outstanding shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
  Stock and Common Stock, respectively, holders of Series A Junior Participating
  Preferred Stock and holders of shares of Common Stock shall receive their
  ratable and proportionate share of the remaining assets to be distributed in
  the ratio of the Adjustment Number to 1 with respect to such Preferred Stock
  and Common Stock, on a per share basis, respectively.

  (b) In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to
  permit payment in full of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the
  liquidation preferences of all other series of preferred stock, if any, which
  rank on a parity with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, then
  such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of such
  parity shares in proportion to their respective liquidation preferences. In
  the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to permit
  payment in full of the Common Adjustment, then such remaining assets shall be
  distributed ratably to the holders of Common Stock.

  (c) In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights
  Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of
  Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine
  the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each
  such case the Adjustment Number in effect immediately prior to such event
  shall be adjusted by multiplying such Adjustment Number by a fraction the
  numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
  immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of
  shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.

7.  Consolidation, Merger, etc. In case the Corporation shall enter into any
consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of
Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash
and/or any other property, then in any such case the shares of Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or
changed in an amount per share (subject to the provision for adjustment
hereinafter set forth) equal to 100 times the aggregate amount of stock,
securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may
be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged.
In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date
(a) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (b)
subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (c) combine the outstanding Common
Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount set
forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares
of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by
multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the
denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were
outstanding immediately prior to such event.

8.  No Redemption. The shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
shall not be redeemable.

9.  Ranking. The Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall rank junior
to all other series of the Corporation's Series Preferred Stock as to the
payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, unless the terms of any
such series shall provide otherwise.

10. Amendment. This Certificate of Incorporation shall not be further amended
in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or
special rights of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock so as to
affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds
or more of the outstanding shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock, voting separately as a class.

11. Fractional Shares.  Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock may be
issued in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to
such holder's fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends,
participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of
holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.


II. COMMON STOCK

A.  Dividends.  Subject to all of the rights of the Series Preferred Stock,
dividends may be paid upon the Common Stock as and when declared by the Board of
Directors out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends.

B.  Liquidation Rights.  In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
winding-up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, and after the
holders of the Series Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full amounts to
which they respectively shall be entitled, or an amount sufficient to pay the
aggregate amount to which such holders shall be entitled shall have been
deposited in trust with a bank or trust company having its principal office in
the Borough of Manhattan, City, County and State of New York, having a capital,
undivided profits and surplus aggregating at least $5,000,000, for the benefit
of the holders of the Series Preferred Stock, the remaining net assets of the
Corporation shall be distributed pro rata to the holders of the Common Stock.

C.  Voting Rights.  Except as otherwise expressly provided with respect to the
Series Preferred Stock and except as otherwise may be required by law, the
Common Stock shall have the exclusive right to vote for the election of
directors and for all other purposes and each holder of Common Stock shall be
entitled to one vote for each share held.


                                  ARTICLE V.

A.  Board of Directors of the Corporation.

1.  General Provisions.  The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be
managed under the direction of the Board of Directors. The exact number of
directors shall be fixed from time to time by, or in the manner provided in, the
By-Laws of the Corporation and may be increased or

                                       9
<PAGE>
 
decreased as therein provided. Directors of the Corporation need not be elected
by ballot unless required by the By-laws.

2.  Classification of Board of Directors.  The directors shall be divided into
three classes. Each such class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of
one-third of the total number of directors, and any remaining directors shall be
included within such group or groups as the Board of Directors shall designate.
At the annual meeting of stockholders in 1994, a class of directors shall be
elected for a one-year term, a class of directors for a two-year term and a
class of directors for a three-year term. At each succeeding annual meeting of
stockholders, beginning in 1995, successors to the class of directors whose term
expires at that annual meeting shall be elected for a three-year term. If the
number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned
among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as
nearly equal as possible, but in no case shall a decrease in the number of
directors shorten the term of any incumbent director.  A director may be removed
from office for cause only and, subject to such removal, death, resignation,
retirement or disqualification, shall hold office until the annual meeting for
the year in which his term expires and until his successor shall be elected and
qualify. No alteration, amendment or repeal of this Article V or the By-Laws of
the Corporation shall be effective to shorten the term of any director holding
office at the time of such alteration, amendment or repeal, to permit any such
director to be removed without cause, or to increase the number of directors in
any class or in the aggregate from that existing at the time of such alteration,
amendment or repeal until the expiration of the terms of office of all directors
then holding office, unless (i) in the case of this Article V, such alteration,
amendment or repeal has been approved by the holders of all shares of stock
entitled to vote thereon, or (ii) in the case of the By-Laws, such alteration,
amendment or repeal has been approved by either the holders of all shares
entitled to vote thereon or by a vote of a majority of the entire Board of
Directors.

3.  Directors Appointed by a Specific Class of Stockholders.  To the extent that
any holders of any class or series of stock other than Common Stock issued by
the Corporation shall have the separate right, voting as a class or series, to
elect directors, the directors elected by such class or series shall be deemed
to constitute an additional class of directors and shall have a term of office
for one year or such other period as may be designated by the provisions of such
class or series providing such separate voting right to the holders of such
class or series of stock, and any such class of directors shall be in addition
to the classes designated above.


                                  ARTICLE VI.

A.  General Provisions.  The following provisions are hereby adopted for the
purpose of defining, limiting and regulating the powers of the Corporation and
of its directors and stockholders:

1.  Amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation.  Subject to the provisions
of applicable law, the Corporation reserves the right from time to time to make
any amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation, now or hereafter authorized
by law, including any amendment which alters the contract rights as expressly
set forth therein, of any outstanding stock.

2.  Amendments to the By-Laws.  The Board of Directors is expressly authorized
to adopt, alter and repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation in whole or in part at
any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors, by vote of a majority
of the entire Board of Directors. Except where this Certificate of Incorporation
otherwise requires a higher vote, the By-Laws may also be adopted, altered or
repealed in whole or in part at any annual or special meeting of the
stockholders by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the shares of the
Corporation outstanding and entitled to vote thereon.

                                      10
<PAGE>
 
3.  No Preemptive Rights.  No holder of any class of stock of the Corporation,
whether now or hereafter authorized or outstanding, shall have any preemptive,
preferential or other right to subscribe for or purchase any class of the
Corporation's stock, whether now or hereafter authorized or outstanding, which
it may at any time issue or sell, or to subscribe for or purchase any notes,
debentures, bonds or other securities which it may at any time issue or sell,
whether or not the same be convertible into or exchangeable for or carry options
or warrants to purchase shares of any class of the Corporation's stock or other
securities, or to receive or purchase any warrants or options which may be
issued or granted evidencing the right to purchase any such stock or other
securities, it being intended by this Section 3 that all preemptive rights of
any kind applicable to securities of the Corporation are eliminated.

4.  Vote Required to Take Action; Action by Written Consent.  Except as
otherwise provided in this Certificate of Incorporation and except as otherwise
provided by applicable law, the Corporation may take or authorize any action
upon the affirmative vote of the majority of shares present in person or
represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter
thereof. Action shall be taken by stockholders of the Corporation only at annual
or special meetings of stockholders, and stockholders may act in lieu of a
meeting only by unanimous written consent.

5.  Compensation of Directors.  The Board of Directors may determine from time
to time the amount and type of compensation which shall be paid to its members
for service on the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall also have
the power, in its discretion, to provide for and to pay to directors rendering
services to the Corporation not ordinarily rendered by directors, as such,
special compensation appropriate to the value of such services, as determined by
the Board from time to time.

6.  Interested Transactions.  Any director or officer individually, or any
partnership of which any director or officer may be a member, or any corporation
or association of which any director or officer may be an officer, director,
trustee, employee or stockholder, may be a party to, or may be pecuniarily or
otherwise interested in, any contract or transaction of the Corporation, and in
the absence of fraud no contract or other transaction shall be thereby affected
or invalidated. Any director of the Corporation who is so interested, or who is
also a director, officer, trustee, employee or stockholder of such other
corporation or association or a member of such partnership which is so
interested, may be counted in determining the existence of a quorum at any
meeting of the Board of Directors of the Corporation which shall authorize any
such contract or transaction, and may vote thereat to authorize any such
contract or transaction, with like force and effect as if he were not such
director, officer, trustee, employee or stockholder of such other corporation or
association or not so interested or a member of a partnership so interested;
provided that in case a director, or a partnership, corporation or association
- --------                                                                      
of which a director is a member, officer, director, trustee or employee is so
interested, such fact shall be disclosed or shall have been known to the Board
of Directors or a majority thereof. This paragraph shall not be construed to
invalidate any such contract or transaction which would otherwise be valid under
the common and statutory law applicable thereto.

7.  Indemnification.  The Corporation shall indemnify (a) its directors to the
fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware now or hereafter
in force, including the advancement of expenses under the procedures provided by
such laws, (b) all of its officers to the same extent as it shall indemnify its
directors, and (c) its officers who are not directors to such further extent as
shall be authorized by the Board of Directors and be consistent with law.
Subject only to any limitations prescribed by the laws of the State of Delaware
now or hereafter in force, the foregoing shall not limit the authority of the
Corporation to indemnify the directors, officers and other employees and agents
of this Corporation consistent with law and shall not be deemed to be exclusive
of any rights to which those indemnified may be entitled as a matter of law or
under any resolution, By-Law provision, or agreement.

                                      11
<PAGE>
 
8.  Court-Ordered Meetings of Creditors and/or Stockholders.  Whenever a
compromise or arrangement is proposed between this Corporation and its creditors
or any class of them and/or between this Corporation and its stockholders or any
class of them, any court of equitable jurisdiction within the State of Delaware
may, on the application in a summary way of this Corporation or of any creditor
or stockholder thereof, or on the application of any receiver or receivers
appointed for this Corporation under the provisions of Section 291 of Title 8 of
the Delaware Code or on the application of trustees in dissolution or of any
receiver or receivers appointed for this Corporation under the provisions of
Section 279 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code order a meeting of the creditors or
class of creditors, and/or of the stockholders or class of stockholders of this
Corporation, as the case may be, to be summoned in such manner as such court
directs. If a majority in number representing three-fourths in value of the
creditors or class of creditors, and/or of the stockholders or class of
stockholders of this Corporation, as the case may be, agree to any compromise or
arrangement and to any reorganization of this Corporation as a consequence of
such compromise or arrangement, the said compromise or arrangement and the said
reorganization shall, if sanctioned by the court to which such application has
been made, be binding on all the creditors or class of creditors, and/or on all
the stockholders or class of stockholders, of this Corporation, as the case may
be, and also on this Corporation.

9.  Liability of Directors.  To the fullest extent permitted by Delaware
statutory or decisional law, as amended or interpreted, no director of this
Corporation shall be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders
for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director. This Section 9
does not affect the availability of equitable remedies for breach of fiduciary
duties.


                                  ARTICLE VII.

A.  Vote Required for Certain Business Combinations

1.  Voting Requirements. In addition to any vote otherwise required by law or
this Certificate of Incorporation, a Business Combination (such term, and
certain other capitalized terms referred to in this Article VII, as defined in
Section 3 of this Article VII) shall be recommended by the Board of Directors
and approved by the affirmative vote of at least:

  (a) 80 percent of the votes entitled to be cast by outstanding shares of
  voting stock of the Corporation, voting together as a single voting group; and

  (b) Two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock
  other than voting stock held by an Interested Stockholder who is (or whose
  Affiliate is) a party to the Business Combination or an Affiliate or Associate
  of the Interested Stockholder, voting together as a single voting group.

2.  When Voting Requirements Not Applicable.

  (a) The vote required by Section 1 of this Article VII does not apply to a
  Business Combination if each of the following conditions is met:

     (i) The aggregate amount of the cash and the Market Value as of the
     Valuation Date of consideration other than cash to be received per share by
     holders of common stock in such Business Combination is at least equal to
     the highest of the following:

       (A) The highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions,
       transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested
       Stockholder for any shares of common stock of the same class or series
       acquired by it: (x) within the 2 year period

                                      12
<PAGE>
 
       immediately prior to the Announcement Date of the proposal of the
       Business Combination; or (y) in the transaction in which it became an
       Interested Stockholder, whichever is higher; or

       (B) The Market Value per share of common stock of the same class or
       series on the Announcement Date or on the Determination Date, whichever
       is higher; or

       (C) The price per share equal to the Market Value per share of common
       stock of the same class or series determined pursuant to subparagraph
       (i)(B) of this paragraph (a), multiplied by the fraction of: (x) the
       highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer
       taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Stockholder
       for any shares of common stock of the same class or series acquired by it
       within the 2 year period immediately prior to the Announcement Date, over
       (y) the Market Value per share of common stock of the same class or
       series on the first day in such 2 year period on which the Interested
       Stockholder acquired any shares of common stock.

     (ii) The aggregate amount of the cash and the Market Value as of the
     Valuation Date of consideration other than cash to be received per share by
     holders of shares of any class or series of outstanding stock other than
     Common Stock is at least equal to the highest of the following (whether or
     not the Interested Stockholder has previously acquired any shares of a
     particular class or series of stock):

       (A) The highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions,
       transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested
       Stockholder for any shares of such class of stock acquired by it: (x)
       within the 2 year period immediately prior to the Announcement Date of
       the proposal of the Business Combination; or (y) in the transaction in
       which it became an Interested Stockholder, whichever is higher; or

       (B) The highest preferential amount per share to which the holders of
       shares of such class of stock are entitled in the event of any voluntary
       or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
       or

       (C) The Market Value per share of such class of stock on the Announcement
       Date or on the Determination Date, whichever is higher; or

       (D) The price per share equal to the Market Value per share of such class
       of stock determined pursuant to subparagraph (ii)(B) of this paragraph
       (a), multiplied by the fraction of: (x) the highest per share price
       (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting
       dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Stockholder for any shares of any
       class of Voting Stock acquired by it within the 2 year period immediately
       prior to the Announcement Date, over (y) the Market Value per share of
       the same class of voting stock on the first day in such 2 year period on
       which the Interested Stockholder acquired any shares of the same class of
       Voting Stock.

     (iii) The consideration to be received by holders of any class or series of
     outstanding stock is to be in cash or in the same form as the Interested
     Stockholder has previously paid for shares of the same class or series of
     stock. If the Interested Stockholder has paid for shares of any class of
     stock with varying forms of consideration, the form of consideration for
     such class of stock shall be either cash or the form used to acquire the
     largest number of shares of such class or series of stock previously
     acquired by it.


                                      13
<PAGE>
 
     (iv) After the Interested Stockholder has become an Interested Stockholder
     and prior to the consummation of such Business Combination:

       (A) There shall have been: (x) no reduction in the annual rate of
       dividends paid on any class or series of stock of the Corporation that is
       not preferred stock (except as necessary to reflect any subdivision of
       the stock); (y) an increase in such annual rate of dividends as necessary
       to reflect any reclassification (including any reverse stock split),
       recapitalization, reorganization or any similar transaction which has the
       effect of reducing the number of outstanding shares of the stock; and (z)
       the Interested Stockholder did not become the beneficial owner of any
       additional shares of stock of the Corporation except as part of the
       transaction which resulted in such Interested Stockholder becoming an
       Interested Stockholder or by virtue of proportionate stock splits or
       stock dividends.

       (B) The provisions of subparagraphs (x) and (y) of subparagraph (iv)(A)
       do not apply if no Interested Stockholder or an Affiliate or Associate of
       the Interested Stockholder voted as a director of the Corporation in a
       manner inconsistent with such sub-subparagraphs and the Interested
       Stockholder, within 10 days after any act or failure to act inconsistent
       with such sub-subparagraphs, notifies the Board of Directors of the
       Corporation in writing that the Interested Stockholder disapproves
       thereof and requests in good faith that the Board of Directors rectify
       such act or failure to act.

     (v) After the Interested Stockholder has become an Interested Stockholder,
     the Interested Stockholder may not have received the benefit, directly or
     indirectly (except proportionately as a stockholder), of any loans,
     advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial assistance or any tax
     credits or other tax advantages provided by the Corporation or any of its
     Subsidiaries, whether in anticipation of or in connection with such
     Business Combination or otherwise.

  (b) The requirements of Section 1 of this Article VII do not apply to Business
  Combinations that, as to specifically identified Interested Stockholders or
  their Affiliates, have been approved or exempted therefrom by resolution of
  the Board of Directors of the Corporation at any time prior to the time that
  the Interested Stockholder first became an Interested Stockholder. If the
  Board of Directors so provides, the resolution shall be subject to approval of
  the stockholders in the manner and by the vote specified in the resolution.

3.  Definitions.  In this Article VII, the following words have the meanings
indicated:

  (a) "Affiliate," including the term "affiliated person," means a person that
  directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is
  controlled by, or is under common control with, a specified person .

  (b) "Announcement Date" means the first general public announcement of the
  proposal or intention to make a proposal of the Business Combination or its
  first communication generally to stockholders of the Corporation, whichever is
  earlier;

  (c) "Associate," when used to indicate a relationship with any person, means:

     (i) Any corporation or organization (other than the Corporation or a
     Subsidiary of the Corporation) of which such person is an officer,
     director, or partner or is, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of
     10 percent or more of any class of Equity Securities;

                                      14
<PAGE>
 
     (ii) Any trust or other estate in which such person has a substantial
     beneficial interest or as to which such person serves as trustee or in a
     similar fiduciary capacity; and

     (iii) Any relative or spouse of such person, or any relative of such
     spouse, who has the same home as such person or who is a director or
     officer of the Corporation or any of its Affiliates.

  (d) "Beneficial Owner," when used with respect to any Voting Stock, means a
  person:

     (i) That, individually or with any of its Affiliates or Associates,
     beneficially owns Voting Stock, directly or indirectly; or

     (ii) That, individually or with any of its Affiliates or Associates, has:

       (A) The right to acquire Voting Stock (whether such right is exercisable
       immediately or only after the passage of time), pursuant to any
       agreement, arrangement, or understanding or upon the exercise of
       conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; or

       (B) The right to vote Voting Stock pursuant to any agreement,
       arrangement, or understanding; or

     (iii) That has any agreement, arrangement, or understanding for the purpose
     of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of Voting Stock with any other
     person that beneficially owns, or whose Affiliates or Associates
     beneficially own, directly or indirectly, such shares of Voting Stock.

  (e) "Business Combination" means:

     (i) Unless the merger, consolidation, or share exchange does not alter the
     contract rights of the stock as expressly set forth in this Certificate of
     Incorporation or change or convert in whole or in part the outstanding
     shares of stock of the Corporation, any merger or consolidation of the
     Corporation or any Subsidiary with (A) any Interested Stockholder or (B)
     any other corporation (whether or not itself an Interested Stockholder)
     which is, or after the merger or consolidation, would be, an Affiliate of
     an Interested Stockholder that was an Interested Stockholder prior to the
     transaction.

     (ii) Any sale, lease, transfer or other disposition, other than in the
     ordinary course of business, in one transaction or a series of transactions
     in any 12-month period, to any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of
     any Interested Stockholder (other than the Corporation or any of its
     Subsidiaries) of any assets of the Corporation or any Subsidiary having,
     measured at the time the transaction or transactions are approved by the
     Board of Directors of the Corporation, an aggregate book value as of the
     end of the Corporation's most recently ended fiscal quarter of 10 percent
     or more of the total Market Value of the outstanding stock of the
     Corporation or of its net worth as of the end of its most recently ended
     fiscal quarter;

     (iii) The issuance or transfer by the Corporation, or any Subsidiary, in
     one transaction or a series of transactions, of any Equity Securities of
     the Corporation or any Subsidiary which have an aggregate Market Value of 5
     percent or more of the total Market Value of the outstanding stock of the
     Corporation to any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any
     Interested Stockholder (other than the Corporation or any of its
     Subsidiaries) except pursuant to the exercise of warrants or rights to
     purchase securities offered pro rata to all

                                      15
<PAGE>
 
     holders of the Corporation's voting stock or any other method affording
     substantially proportionate treatment to the holders of Voting Stock;

     (iv) The adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or
     dissolution of the Corporation in which anything other than cash will be
     received by an Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested
     Stockholder; or

     (v) Any reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split),
     or recapitalization of the Corporation, or any merger or consolidation, of
     the Corporation with any of its Subsidiaries which has the effect, directly
     or indirectly, in one transaction or a series of transactions, of
     increasing by 5 percent or more of the total number of outstanding shares,
     the proportionate amount of the outstanding shares of any class of Equity
     Securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary which is directly or
     indirectly owned by any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any
     Interested Stockholder.

  (f) "Common Stock" means any stock other than preferred or preference stock.

  (g) "Control," including the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under
  common control with," means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the
  power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a
  person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or
  otherwise, and the beneficial ownership of 10 percent or more of the votes
  entitled to be cast by a corporation's voting stock creates a presumption of
  control.

  (h) "Determination Date" means the date on which an Interested Stockholder
  first became an Interested Stockholder;

  (i) "Equity Security" means:

     (i) Any stock or similar security, certificate of interest, or
     participation in any profit sharing agreement, voting trust certificate, or
     certificate of deposit for an equity security;

     (ii) Any security convertible, with or without consideration, into an
     equity security, or any warrant or other security carrying any right to
     subscribe to or purchase an equity security; or

     (iii) Any put, call, straddle, or other option or privilege of buying an
     equity security from or selling an equity security to another without being
     bound to do so.

  (j) "Interested Stockholder" means any person (other than the Corporation or
  any Subsidiary) that:

     (i)(A) Is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10 percent or
     more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of the
     Corporation; or

     (B) Is an Affiliate of the Corporation and at any time within the 2 year
     period immediately prior to the date in question was the beneficial owner,
     directly or indirectly, of 10 percent or more of the Voting Power of the
     then outstanding voting stock of the Corporation.

     (ii) For the purpose of determining whether a person is an Interested
     Stockholder, the number of shares of Voting Stock deemed to be outstanding
     shall include shares deemed owned by the person through application of
     subsection (d) of this section but may not include any other shares of
     Voting Stock which may be issuable pursuant to any

                                      16
<PAGE>
 
     agreement, arrangement, or understanding, or upon exercise of conversion
     rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.

  (k) "Market Value" means:

     (i) In the case of stock, the highest closing sale price during the 30 day
     period immediately preceding the date in question of a share of such stock
     on the composite tape for New York Stock Exchange listed stocks, or, if
     such stock is not quoted on the composite tape, on the New York Stock
     Exchange, or if such stock is not listed on such exchange, on the principal
     United States securities exchange registered under the Securities Exchange
     Act of 1934 on which such stock is listed, or, if such stock is not listed
     on any such exchange, the highest closing bid quotation with respect to a
     share of such stock during the 30 day period preceding the date in question
     on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. automated
     quotations system or any system then in use, or if no such quotations are
     available, the fair market value on the date in question of a share of such
     stock as determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation in good
     faith; and

     (ii) In the case of property other than cash or stock, the fair market
     value of such property on the date in question as determined by the Board
     of Directors of the Corporation in good faith.

  (l) "Subsidiary" means any corporation of which voting stock having a majority
  of the votes entitled to be cast is owned, directly or indirectly, by the
  Corporation.

  (m) "Valuation Date" means: (i) for a Business Combination voted upon by
  stockholders, the later of the day prior to the date of the stockholders' vote
  or the day 20 days prior to the consummation of the Business Combination; and
  (ii) for a Business Combination not voted upon by stockholders, the date of
  the consummation of the Business Combination.

  (n) "Voting Stock" means shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled
  to vote generally in the election of directors.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation restates and
integrates, but does not further amend, the provisions of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation as adopted by the Board of
Directors of the Corporation pursuant to Section 245 of the Delaware General
Corporation Law, and has been executed and attested to by its duly authorized
officers this 29th day of March, 1995.

                              McKESSON CORPORATION



                              By:   /S/Nancy A. Miller
                                    ------------------
                                    Nancy A. Miller
                                    Vice President and Corporate Secretary

Attest:

/S/Lorraine E. Peetz
- --------------------
Lorraine E. Peetz
Assistant Secretary

                                      17
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.2
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>RESTATED BY-LAWS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                     EXHIBIT 3.2

================================================================================
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                   RESTATED

                                    BY-LAWS

                                      of

                             McKESSON CORPORATION

                            A Delaware Corporation




                   ----------------------------------------




                       As amended through April 26, 1995




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
================================================================================
<PAGE>
 
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Page
                                                              ----
<S>             <C>                                           <C>
 
ARTICLE I       Offices......................................   1
  Section 1     Registered Office............................   1
  Section 2     Other Offices................................   1
 
ARTICLE II      Stockholders' Meetings.......................   1
  Section 1     Place of Meetings............................   1
  Section 2     Annual Meetings..............................   1
  Section 3     Special Meetings.............................   1
  Section 4     Notice of Meetings...........................   2
  Section 5     Quorum.......................................   2
  Section 6     Voting Rights................................   3
  Section 7     Voting Procedures and Inspectors
                of Elections.................................   3
  Section 8     List of Stockholders.........................   4
  Section 9     Stockholder Proposals at
                Annual Meetings..............................   4
  Section 10    Nominations of Persons for Election
                to the Board of Directors....................   5
 
ARTICLE III     Directors....................................   6
  Section 1     General Powers...............................   6
  Section 2     Number and Term of Office; Removal...........   6
  Section 3     Election of Directors........................   7
  Section 4     Vacancies....................................   7
  Section 5     Resignations.................................   7
  Section 6     Annual Meetings..............................   7
  Section 7     Regular Meetings.............................   7
  Section 8     Special Meetings; Notice.....................   7
  Section 9     Quorum and Manner of Acting..................   8
  Section 10    Consent in Writing...........................   8
  Section 11    Committees...................................   8
  Section 12    Telephone Meetings...........................   9
  Section 13    Compensation.................................   9
  Section 14    Interested Directors.........................   9
  Section 15    Directors Elected by Special Class or Series.  10
 
ARTICLE IV      Officers.....................................  10
  Section 1     Designation of Officers......................  10
  Section 2     Term of Office; Resignation; Removal.........  10
  Section 3     Vacancies....................................  10
  Section 4     Authority of Officers........................  10
  Section 5     Divisional Titles............................  11
  Section 6     Salaries.....................................  11
 
ARTICLE V       Execution of Corporate Instruments and Voting
                of Securities Owned by the Corporation.......  12
  Section 1     Execution of Instruments.....................  12
  Section 2     Voting of Securities Owned by the Corporation  12
</TABLE>

                                       i
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Page
                                                              ----
<S>             <C>                                           <C>
 
ARTICLE VI      Shares of Stock and Other Securities.........  12
  Section 1     Form and Execution of Certificates...........  12
  Section 2     Lost Certificates............................  12
  Section 3     Transfers....................................  13
  Section 4     Fixing Record Dates..........................  13
  Section 5     Registered Stockholders......................  13
  Section 6     Regulations..................................  13
  Section 7     Other Securities of the Corporation..........  14
                
ARTICLE VII     Corporate Seal...............................  14
                
ARTICLE VIII    Indemnification of Officers, Directors, 
                  Employees and Agents.......................  14
  Section 1     Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or 
                  Proceedings other Than Those by or in the 
                  Right of the Corporation...................  14
  Section 2     Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or 
                  Proceedings by or in the Right of the 
                  Corporation................................  15
  Section 3     Authorization of Indemnification.............  15
  Section 4     Good Faith Defined...........................  15
  Section 5     Indemnification by a Court...................  15
  Section 6     Expenses Payable in Advance..................  16
  Section 7     Nonexclusivity of Indemnification and 
                  Advancement of Expenses....................  16
  Section 8     Insurance....................................  16
  Section 9     Certain Definitions..........................  16
  Section 10    Survival of Indemnification and Advancement 
                  of Expenses................................  17
  Section 11    Limitation on Indemnification................  17
  Section 12    Indemnification of Employees and Agents......  17
  Section 13    Effect of Amendment..........................  17
  Section 14    Authority to Enter into Indemnification
                  Agreements.................................  17
                
ARTICLE IX      Notices......................................  18
                
ARTICLE X       Amendments...................................  18
</TABLE>

                                       ii
<PAGE>
 
                                   RESTATED

                                    BY-LAWS

                                      OF

                             McKESSON CORPORATION

                            A Delaware Corporation



                                   ARTICLE I

                                    OFFICES

SECTION 1.  REGISTERED OFFICE.   The registered office of McKesson Corporation
(the "Corporation") in the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Dover,
County of Kent.

SECTION 2.  OTHER OFFICES.   The Corporation shall also have and maintain an
office or principal place of business at One Post Street, San Francisco,
California and may also have offices at such other places, both within and
without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may from time to time
determine or the business of the Corporation may require.



                                   ARTICLE II

                             STOCKHOLDERS' MEETINGS

SECTION 1.  PLACE OF MEETINGS.   Meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation
shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as
may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors, or, if not so
designated, then at the office of the Corporation required to be maintained
pursuant to Section 2 of ARTICLE I hereof.

SECTION 2.  ANNUAL MEETINGS.   The annual meetings of stockholders of the
Corporation for the purpose of election of directors and for such other business
as may lawfully come before it, shall be held on such date and at such time as
may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors, or, if not so
designated, then at 10:00 a.m. on the last Wednesday in July in each year if not
a legal holiday, and, if a legal holiday, at the same hour and place on the next
succeeding day not a holiday.

SECTION 3.  SPECIAL MEETINGS.   Special Meetings of the stockholders of the
Corporation may be called, for any purpose or purposes, by the Chairman of the
Board or the President or the Board of Directors at any time.  Stockholders may
not call Special Meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation.

                                       1
<PAGE>
 
SECTION 4.  NOTICE OF MEETINGS.

(a) Except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation,
written notice of each meeting of stockholders, specifying the place, date and
hour and purpose or purposes of the meeting, shall be given not less than 10 nor
more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to
vote thereat, directed to his address as it appears upon the books of the
Corporation; except that where the matter to be acted on is a merger or
consolidation of the Corporation or a sale, lease or exchange of all or
substantially all of its assets, such notice shall be given not less than 20 nor
more than 60 days prior to such meeting.

(b) If at any meeting action is proposed to be taken which, if taken, would
entitle stockholders fulfilling the requirements of Section 262(d) of the
Delaware General Corporation Law to an appraisal of the fair value of their
shares, the notice of such meeting shall contain a statement of that purpose and
to that effect and shall be accompanied by a copy of that statutory section.

(c) When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be
given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at
the meeting at which the adjournment is taken unless the adjournment is for more
than thirty days, or unless after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for
the adjourned meeting, in which event a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be
given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.

(d) Notice of the time, place and purpose of any meeting of stockholders may be
waived in writing, either before or after such meeting, and to the extent
permitted by law, will be waived by any stockholder by his attendance thereat,
in person or by proxy. Any stockholder so waiving notice of such meeting shall
be bound by the proceedings of any such meeting in all respects as if due notice
thereof had been given.

(e) Unless and until voted, every proxy shall be revocable at the pleasure of
the person who executed it or of his legal representatives or assigns, except in
those cases where an irrevocable proxy permitted by statute has been given.


SECTION 5.  QUORUM.   At all meetings of stockholders, except where otherwise
provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these By-Laws, the
presence, in person or by proxy duly authorized, of the holders of a majority of
the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business.  Shares, the voting of which at said meeting has
been enjoined, or which for any reason cannot be lawfully voted at such meeting,
shall not be counted to determine a quorum at said meeting.

In the absence of a quorum any meeting of stockholders may be adjourned, from
time to time, by vote of the holders of a majority of the shares represented
thereat, but no other business shall be transacted at such meeting.  At such
adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present or represented any business may
be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting.  The
stockholders present at a duly called or convened meeting, at which a quorum is
present, may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding
the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.  Except as
otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws,
all action taken by the holders of a majority of the voting power represented at
any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be valid and binding upon the
Corporation.

In the event that at any meeting at which the holders of more than one class or
series of the Corporation's capital stock are entitled to vote as a class, a
quorum of any such class or series is lacking, the holders of any class or
series represented by a quorum may proceed with the 

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
transaction of the business to be transacted by that class or series, and if
such business is the election of directors, the director whose successors shall
not have been elected shall continue in office until their successors shall have
been duly elected and shall have qualified.


SECTION 6.  VOTING RIGHTS.

(a) Except as otherwise provided by law, only persons in whose names shares
entitled to vote stand on the stock records of the Corporation on the record
date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote at said meeting shall be
entitled to vote at such meeting. Shares standing in the names of two or more
persons shall be voted or represented in accordance with the determination of
the majority of such persons, or, if only one of such persons is present in
person or represented by proxy, such person shall have the right to vote such
shares and such shares shall be deemed to be represented for the purpose of
determining a quorum.

(b) Every person entitled to vote or execute consents shall have the right to do
so either in person or by an agent or agents authorized by a written proxy
executed by such person or his duly authorized agent, which proxy shall be filed
with the Secretary of the Corporation at or before the meeting at which it is to
be used. Said proxy so appointed need not be a stockholder. No proxy shall be
voted on after three years from its date unless the proxy provides for a longer
period.

(c) Without limiting the manner in which a stockholder may authorize another
person or persons to act for him as proxy pursuant to subsection (b) of this
Section, the following shall constitute a valid means by which a stockholder may
grant such authority:

        (1) A stockholder may execute a writing authorizing another person or
        persons to act for him as proxy. Execution may be accomplished by the
        stockholder or his authorized officer, director, employee or agent
        signing such writing or causing his or her signature to be affixed to
        such writing by any reasonable means including, but not limited to, by
        facsimile signature.

        (2) A stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for him
        as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram,
        cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission to the person who
        will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy
        support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person
        who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission,
        provided that any such telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic
        transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from
        which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other
        electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder. If it is
        determined that such telegrams, cablegrams or other electronic
        transmissions are valid, the inspectors or, if there are no inspectors,
        such other persons making that determination shall specify the
        information upon which they relied.

(d) Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the
writing or transmission created pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section may
be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any
and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used,
provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall
be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.


SECTION 7.  VOTING PROCEDURES AND INSPECTORS OF ELECTIONS.

(a) The Corporation shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint
one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof.
The Corporation may designate

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails
to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of
stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more
inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the
discharge of his duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the
duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his
ability.

(b) The inspectors shall (i) ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the
voting power of each, (ii) determine the shares represented at a meeting and the
validity of proxies and ballots, (iii) count all votes and ballots, (iv)
determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any
challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their
determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting, and their
count of all votes and ballots. The inspectors may appoint or retain other
persons or entities to assist the inspectors in the performance of the duties of
the inspectors.

(c) The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each
matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at
the meeting. No ballot, proxies or votes, nor any revocations thereof or changes
thereto, shall be accepted by the inspectors after the closing of the polls
unless the Court of Chancery upon application by a stockholder shall determine
otherwise.

(d) In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots, the
inspectors shall be limited to an examination of the proxies, any envelopes
submitted with those proxies, any information provided in accordance with
Section 212(c)(2) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, ballots and the
regular books and records of the Corporation, except that the inspectors may
consider other reliable information for the limited purpose of reconciling
proxies and ballots submitted by or on behalf of banks, brokers, their nominees
or similar persons which represent more votes than the holder of a proxy is
authorized by the record owner to cast or more votes than the stockholder holds
of record. If the inspectors consider other reliable information for the limited
purpose permitted herein, the inspectors at the time they make their
certification pursuant to subsection (b)(v) of this Section shall specify the
precise information considered by them including the person or persons from whom
they obtained the information, when the information was obtained, the means by
which the information was obtained and the basis for the inspectors' belief that
such information is accurate and reliable.

(e) The provisions of this Section 7 shall not apply to any annual meeting of
stockholders held prior to the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in
1995.

SECTION 8.  LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS.  The officer who has charge of the stock
ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least 10 days before every
meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at
said meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, showing the address of and the
number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.  Such list shall be
open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the
meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least 10 days prior
to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be
held and which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not
specified, at the place where said meeting is to be held, and the list shall be
produced and kept at the time and place of meeting during the whole time
thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.

SECTION 9.  STOCKHOLDER PROPOSALS AT ANNUAL MEETINGS.   At an annual meeting of
the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been
properly brought before the meeting.  To be properly brought before an annual
meeting, business must be specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement
thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, 

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the
Board of Directors or otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a
stockholder. In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to
be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder
must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the
Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed
and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation, not less
than 60 days nor more than 90 days prior to the meeting; provided, however, that
in the event that less than 70 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the
date of the meeting is given or made to stockholders, notice by the stockholder
to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the
10th day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual
meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made. A stockholder's notice to
the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to
bring before the annual meeting, (i) a brief description of the business desired
to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such
business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and record address of the
stockholder proposing such business, (iii) the class or series and number of
shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of
record by the stockholder, (iv) a description of all arrangements or
understandings between the stockholder and any other person or persons
(including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by the
stockholder and any material interest of the stockholder in such business, and
(v) a representation that the stockholder intends to appear in person or by
proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting.

Notwithstanding anything in the By-Laws to the contrary, no business shall be
conducted at the annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set
forth in this Section 9, provided, however, that nothing in this Section 9 shall
be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any business properly
brought before the annual meeting in accordance with said procedure.

The Chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and
declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting
in accordance with the provisions of this Section 9, and if he should so
determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly
brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.


SECTION 10.  NOMINATIONS OF PERSONS FOR ELECTION TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.   In
addition to any other applicable requirements, only persons who are nominated in
accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as
directors.  Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the
Corporation may be made at a meeting of stockholders by or at the direction of
the Board of Directors, by any nominating committee or person appointed by the
Board of Directors or by any stockholder of the Corporation entitled to vote for
the election of directors at the meeting who complies with the notice procedures
set forth in this Section 10.  Such nominations, other than those made by or at
the direction of the Board of Directors, shall be made pursuant to timely notice
in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation.  To be timely, a stockholder's
notice shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive
offices of the Corporation not less than 60 days nor more than 90 days prior to
the meeting; provided, however, that in the event that less than 70 days' notice
or prior public disclosure of the date of the meeting is given or made to
stockholders, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not
later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such
notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made.
Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the
stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director, (i)
the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (ii) the
principal occupation or employment of the person, (iii) the class and number of
shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the person and (iv)
any other information relating to the person that is required to be disclosed in
solicitations for proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (b) as to the 

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
stockholder giving the notice, (i) the name and record address of the
stockholder, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of
the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by the stockholder,
(iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the
stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including
their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by the
stockholder, (iv) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in
person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the persons named in such notice
and (v) any other information relating to the stockholder that would be required
to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in
connection with solicitations of proxies for the election of directors pursuant
to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder. Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each
proposed nominee being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.
The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other
information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the
eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation.
No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless
nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth herein. These provisions
shall not apply to nomination of any persons entitled to be separately elected
by holders of preferred stock.

The Chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare
to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing
procedure, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and
the defective nomination shall be disregarded.


                                  ARTICLE III

                                   DIRECTORS

SECTION 1.  GENERAL POWERS.   The property, affairs and business of the
Corporation shall be managed under the direction of its Board of Directors,
which may exercise all of the powers of the Corporation, except such as are by
law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws expressly
conferred upon or reserved to the stockholders.


SECTION 2.  NUMBER AND TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL.   The number of directors of the
Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by these By-Laws but in no event
shall be less than three (3).  Until these By-Laws are further amended, the
number of directors shall be ten.  The directors shall be divided into three
classes.  Each such class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-
third of the total number of directors, and any remaining directors shall be
included within such group or groups as the Board of Directors shall designate.
At the initial annual meeting of stockholders in 1994, a class of directors
shall be elected for a one-year term, a class of directors for a two-year term
and a class of directors for a three-year term.  At each succeeding annual
meeting of stockholders, beginning in 1995, successors to the class of directors
whose term expires at that annual meeting shall be elected for a three-year
term.  If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be
apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each
class as nearly equal as possible, but in no case shall a decrease in the number
of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director.  A director may be
removed from office for cause only and, subject to such removal, death,
resignation, retirement or disqualification, shall hold office until the annual
meeting for the year in which his term expires and until his successor shall be
elected and qualify.  No alteration, amendment or repeal of these By-Laws shall
be effective to shorten the term of any director holding office at the time of
such alteration, amendment or repeal, to permit any such director to be removed
without cause, or to increase the number of directors in any class or in the
aggregate from that existing at the time of such alteration, amendment or repeal
until the expiration of the terms of office of all directors then 

                                       6
<PAGE>
 
holding office, unless such alteration, amendment or repeal has been approved by
either the holders of all shares of stock entitled to vote thereon or by a vote
of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The provisions of this Section 2
shall not apply to directors governed by Section 15 of this ARTICLE III.


SECTION 3.  ELECTION OF DIRECTORS.  At each meeting of the stockholders for the
election of directors, the directors to be elected at such meeting shall be
elected by a plurality of votes given at such election.


SECTION 4. VACANCIES. Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors for any
cause other than by reason of an increase in the number of directors may be
filled by a majority of the remaining members of the Board of Directors,
although such majority is less than a quorum, or by the stockholders. Any
vacancy occurring by reason of an increase in the number of directors may be
filled by action of a majority of the entire Board of Directors or by the
stockholders. A director elected by the Board of Directors to fill a vacancy
shall be elected to hold office until the expiration of the term for which he
was elected and until his successor shall have been elected and shall have
qualified. A director elected by the stockholders to fill a vacancy shall be
elected to hold office until the expiration of the term for which he was elected
and until his successor shall have been elected and shall have qualified. The
provisions of this Section 4 shall not apply to directors governed by Section 15
of this ARTICLE III.


SECTION 5.  RESIGNATIONS.   A director may resign at any time by giving written
notice to the Board of Directors or to the Secretary.  Such resignation shall
take effect at the time specified therein and, unless otherwise specified
therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it
effective.


SECTION 6.  ANNUAL MEETINGS.   The Board of Directors, as constituted following
the vote of stockholders at any meeting of the stockholders for the election of
directors, may hold its first meeting for the purpose of organization and the
transaction of business, if a quorum be present, immediately after such meeting
and at the same place, and notice of such meeting need not be given.  Such first
meeting may be held at any other time and place specified in a notice given as
hereinafter provided for special meetings of the Board of Directors or in a
consent and waiver of notice thereof signed by all the directors.


SECTION 7.  REGULAR MEETINGS.   Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may
be held without notice at such places and times as may be fixed from time to
time by resolution of the Board.


SECTION 8.  SPECIAL MEETINGS; NOTICE.   Special meetings of the Board of
Directors may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board or the
President and shall be called by the Secretary upon the written request of any
three directors and each special meeting shall be held at such place and time as
shall be specified in the notice thereof.  At least twenty-four (24) hours'
notice of each such special meeting shall be given to each director personally
or sent to him addressed to his residence or usual place of business by
telephone, telegram or facsimile transmission, or at least 120 hours' notice of
each such special meeting shall be given to each director by letter sent to him
addressed as aforesaid or on such shorter notice and by such means as the person
or persons calling such meeting may deem reasonably necessary or appropriate in
light of the circumstances.  Any notice by letter or telegram shall be deemed to
be given when deposited in the United States mail so addressed or when duly
deposited at an appropriate office for transmission by telegram, as 

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
the case may be. Such notice need not state the business to be transacted at or
the purpose or purposes of such special meeting. No notice of any such special
meeting of the Board of Directors need be given to any director who attends in
person or who, in writing executed and filed with the records of the meeting,
either before or after the holding thereof, waives such notice. No notice need
be given of an adjourned meeting of the Board of Directors.


SECTION 9.  QUORUM AND MANNER OF ACTING.   A majority of the total number of
directors, but in no event less than two directors, shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business at any annual, regular or special meeting of the
Board of Directors.  Except as otherwise provided by law, by the Certificate of
Incorporation or by these By-Laws, the act of a majority of the directors
present at any meeting, at which a quorum is present, shall be the act of the
Board of Directors.  In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the directors
present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum be had.


SECTION 10.  CONSENT IN WRITING.   Any action required or permitted to be taken
at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may be taken
without a meeting, if a written consent to such action is signed by all members
of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, and such written consent
is filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or such committee.


SECTION 11.  COMMITTEES.

(a) EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a
majority of the whole Board, appoint an Executive Committee of not less than
three members, each of whom shall be a director. The Executive Committee, to the
extent permitted by law, shall have and may exercise when the Board of Directors
is not in session all powers of the Board in the management of the business and
affairs of the Corporation, including, without limitation, the power and
authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock, except
such Committee shall not have the power or authority to amend the Certificate of
Incorporation, to adopt an agreement of merger or consolidation, to recommend to
the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the
Corporation's property and assets, to recommend to the stockholders of the
Corporation a dissolution of the Corporation or a revocation of a dissolution,
or to amend these By-Laws.

(B) OTHER COMMITTEES. The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a
majority of the whole Board, from time to time appoint such other committees as
may be permitted by law. Such other committees appointed by the Board of
Directors shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed by
the resolution or resolutions creating such committee, but in no event shall any
such committee have the powers denied to the Executive Committee in these By-
Laws.

(c) TERM. The members of all committees of the Board of Directors shall serve a
term coexistent with that of the Board of Directors which shall have appointed
such committee. The Board, subject to the provisions of subsections (a) or (b)
of this Section 11, may at any time increase or decrease the number of members
of a committee or terminate the existence of a committee; provided, that no
committee shall consist of less than one member. The membership of a committee
member shall terminate on the date of his death or voluntary resignation, but
the Board may at any time for any reason remove any individual committee member
and the Board may fill any committee vacancy created by death, resignation,
removal or increase in the number of members of the committee. The Board of
Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any
committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of
the

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
committee, and, in addition, in the absence or disqualification of any member of
a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not
disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may
unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the
meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.

(d) MEETINGS. Unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide, regular
meetings of the Executive Committee or any other committee appointed pursuant to
this Section 11 shall be held at such times and places as are determined by the
Board of Directors, or by any such committee, and when notice thereof has been
given to each member of such committee, no further notice of such regular
meetings need be given thereafter; special meetings of any such committee may be
held at the principal office of the Corporation required to be maintained
pursuant to Section 2 of ARTICLE I hereof; or at any place which has been
designated from time to time by resolution of such committee or by written
consent of all members thereof, and may be called by any director who is a
member of such committee, upon written notice to the members of such committee
of the time and place of such special meeting given in the manner provided for
the giving of written notice to members of the Board of Directors of the time
and place of special meetings of the Board of Directors. Notice of any special
meeting of any committee may be waived in writing at any time after the meeting
and will be waived by any director by attendance thereat. A majority of the
authorized number of members of any such committee shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of those present at any
meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such committee.


SECTION 12.  TELEPHONE MEETINGS.   The Board of Directors or any committee
thereof may participate in a meeting by means of a conference telephone or
similar communications equipment if all members of the Board or of such
committee, as the case may be, participating in the meeting
can hear each other at the same time.  Participation in a meeting by these means
shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.


SECTION 13.  COMPENSATION.  The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of
attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a fixed sum
for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and/or a stated salary
as director.  No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the
Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.   Members
of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending
committee meetings.


SECTION 14.  INTERESTED DIRECTORS.  No contract or transaction between the
Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the
Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other
organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or
officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for
this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or
participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which
authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or their votes are
counted for such purpose if (i) the material facts as to his or their
relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or
are known to the Board of Directors or committee, and the Board of Directors or
committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the
affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the
disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (ii) the material facts as to
his or their relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are
disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the
contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the
stockholders; or (iii) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation
as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board of
Directors, a committee thereof or the stockholders.  Common or interested
directors may be counted in determining the presence of a 

                                       9
<PAGE>
 
quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes
the contract or transaction.


SECTION 15.  DIRECTORS ELECTED BY SPECIAL CLASS OR SERIES.   To the extent that
any holders of any class or series of stock other than Common Stock issued by
the Corporation shall have the separate right, voting as a class or series, to
elect directors, the directors elected by such class or series shall be deemed
to constitute an additional class of directors and shall have a term of office
for one year or such other period as may be designated by the provisions of such
class or series providing such separate voting right to the holders of such
class or series of stock, and any such class of directors shall be in addition
to the classes referred to in Section 2 of this ARTICLE III.  Any directors so
elected shall be subject to removal in such manner as may be provided by law or
by the Certificate of Incorporation of this Corporation.  The provisions of
Sections 2 and 4 of this ARTICLE III do not apply to directors governed by this
Section 15.


                                   ARTICLE IV

                                    OFFICERS

SECTION 1.  DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS.   The officers of the Corporation, who
shall be chosen by the Board of Directors at its first meeting after each annual
meeting of stockholders, shall be a Chairman of the Board, a President, one or
more Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, a Secretary and a Controller.  The Board of
Directors from time to time may choose such other officers as it shall deem
appropriate.  Any one person may hold any number of offices of the Corporation
at any one time unless specifically prohibited therefrom by law.  The Chairman
of the Board and the President shall be chosen from among the directors; the
other officers need not be directors.


SECTION 2.  TERM OF OFFICE; RESIGNATION; REMOVAL.   The term of office of each
officer shall be until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the
next annual meeting of stockholders and until his successor is elected and shall
have qualified, or until his death, resignation or removal, whichever is sooner.
Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board of
Directors or to the Secretary.  Such resignation shall take effect at the time
specified therein and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of
such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.  Any officer may
be removed at any time either with or without cause by the Board of Directors.


SECTION 3.  VACANCIES.   A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation,
removal, disqualification or any other cause, may be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Board of Directors.


SECTION 4.  AUTHORITY OF OFFICERS.   Subject to the power of the Board of
Directors in its discretion to change and redefine the duties of the officers of
the Corporation by resolution in such manner as it may from time to time
determine, the duties of the officers of the Corporation shall be as follows:

(a) CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. The Chairman of the Board shall be the Chief
Executive Officer of the Corporation, and shall execute all the powers and
perform all the duties usual to such office. Subject to the direction of the
Board of Directors, he shall have the responsibility for the general management
of the Corporation. The Chairman shall preside at meetings of the stockholders
and

                                       10
<PAGE>
 
the Board of Directors. He shall recommend to the Board, for its approval, the
membership of Board committees. Subject to the direction of the Board of
Directors, he shall generally manage the affairs of the Board and perform such
other duties as are assigned by the Board.

(b) PRESIDENT. The President shall be the Chief Operating Officer of the
Corporation and shall execute all the powers and perform all the duties usual to
such office. The President shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed
or assigned to him from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Executive
Committee or the Chief Executive Officer.

(c) OTHER OFFICERS. The other officers of the Corporation shall have such powers
and shall perform such duties as generally pertain to their respective offices,
as well as such powers and duties as the Board of Directors, the Executive
Committee or the Chief Executive Officer may prescribe.


SECTION 5.  DIVISIONAL TITLES.   Any one of the Chief Executive Officer,
President, or Vice President Human Resources and Administration (each one an
"Appointing Person"), may from time to time confer upon any employee of a
division of the Corporation the title of President, Vice President, Treasurer or
Secretary of such division or any other divisional title or titles deemed
appropriate.  Any such titles so conferred may be discontinued and withdrawn at
any time by any one Appointing Person.  Any employee of a division designated by
such a divisional title shall have the powers and duties with respect to such
division as shall be prescribed by the Appointing Person.  The conferring,
withdrawal or discontinuance of divisional titles shall be in writing and shall
be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation.


SECTION 6.  SALARIES.    The salaries and other compensation of the principal
officers of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of
Directors.


                                   ARTICLE V

                      EXECUTION OF CORPORATE INSTRUMENTS
               AND VOTING OF SECURITIES OWNED BY THE CORPORATION


SECTION 1.  EXECUTION OF INSTRUMENTS.   The Board of Directors may in its
discretion determine the method and designate the signatory officer or officers
or other person or persons, to execute any corporate instrument or document, or
to sign the corporate name without limitation, except where otherwise provided
by law, and such execution or signature shall be binding upon the Corporation.
All checks and drafts drawn on banks or other depositories on funds to the
credit of the Corporation or in special accounts of the Corporation, shall be
signed by such person or persons as the Treasurer or such other person
designated by the Board of Directors for that purpose shall authorize so to do.


SECTION 2.  VOTING OF SECURITIES OWNED BY THE CORPORATION.   All stock and other
securities of other corporations and business entities owned or held by the
Corporation for itself, or for other parties in any capacity, shall be voted,
and all proxies with respect thereto shall be executed, by the person authorized
to do so by resolution of the Board of Directors.

                                       11
<PAGE>
 
                                   ARTICLE VI

                      SHARES OF STOCK AND OTHER SECURITIES

SECTION 1.  FORM AND EXECUTION OF CERTIFICATES.   Certificates for the shares of
stock of the Corporation shall be in such form as is consistent with the
Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law.  Every holder of stock in the
Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of
the Corporation by, the Chairman of the Board (if there be such an officer
appointed), or by the President or any Vice President and by the Treasurer or
Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or Assistant Secretary, certifying the
number of shares owned by him in the Corporation.  Any or all of the signatures
on the certificate may be a facsimile.  In case any officer, transfer agent, or
registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a
certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar
before such certificate is issued, it may be issued with the same effect as if
he were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue.  If the
Corporation shall be authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more
than one series of any class, the powers, designations, preferences and
relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock
or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such
preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face
or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue to represent such
class or series of stock, provided that, except as otherwise provided in Section
202 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, in lieu of the foregoing
requirements, there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate
which the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock, a
statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder
who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative,
participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series
thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences
and/or rights.


SECTION 2. LOST CERTIFICATES. The Board of Directors may direct a new
certificate or certificates to be issued in place of any certificate or
certificates theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost or
destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming
the certificate of stock to be lost or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of
a new certificate or certificates, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion
and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such
lost or destroyed certificate or certificates, or his legal representative, to
indemnify the Corporation in such manner as it shall require and/or to give the
Corporation a surety bond in such form and amount as it may direct as indemnity
against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the
certificate alleged to have been lost or destroyed.


SECTION 3.  TRANSFERS.   Transfers of record of shares of stock of the
Corporation shall be made only upon its books by the holders thereof, in person
or by attorney duly authorized, and upon the surrender of a certificate or
certificates for a like number of shares, properly endorsed.


SECTION 4.  FIXING RECORD DATES.   In order that the Corporation may determine
the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders
or any adjournment thereof, or to express consent to corporate action in writing
without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other
distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in
respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any
other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date,
which shall not be more than 60 

                                       12
<PAGE>
 
nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days
prior to any other action. If no record date is fixed: (1) the record date for
determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of
stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day
on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on
the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; (2) the record date
for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in
writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is
necessary, shall be the day on which the first written consent is expressed; (3)
the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at
the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the
resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled
to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any
adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may
fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.


SECTION 5.  REGISTERED STOCKHOLDERS.   The Corporation shall be entitled to
recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner
of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and shall not be
bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or
shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or
other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware.


SECTION 6.  REGULATIONS.   The Board of Directors may make such rules and
regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and
registration of certificates for shares of the stock and other securities of the
Corporation, and may appoint transfer agents and registrars of any class of
stock or other securities of the Corporation.


SECTION 7. OTHER SECURITIES OF THE CORPORATION. All bonds, debentures and other
corporate securities of the Corporation, other than stock certificates, may be
signed by the Chairman of the Board (if there be such an officer appointed), or
the President or any Vice President or such other person as may be authorized by
the Board of Directors and the corporate seal impressed thereon or a facsimile
of such seal imprinted thereon and attested by the signature of the Secretary or
an Assistant Secretary, or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer; provided,
however, that where any such bond, debenture or other corporate security shall
be authenticated by the manual signature of a trustee under an indenture
pursuant to which such bond, debenture or other corporate security shall be
issued, the signature of the persons signing and attesting the corporate seal on
such bond, debenture or other corporate security may be the imprinted facsimile
of the signatures of such persons. Interest coupons appertaining to any such
bond, debenture or other corporate security, authenticated by a trustee as
aforesaid, shall be signed by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the
Corporation, or such other person as may be authorized by the Board of
Directors, or bear imprinted thereon the facsimile signature of such person. In
case any officer who shall have signed or attested any bond, debenture or other
corporate security or whose facsimile signature shall appear thereon shall have
ceased to be such officer before the bond, debenture or other corporate security
so signed or attested shall have been delivered, such bond, debenture or other
corporate security nevertheless may be adopted by the Corporation and issued and
delivered as though the person who signed the same or whose facsimile signature
shall have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer of the
Corporation.

                                       13
<PAGE>
 
                                  ARTICLE VII

                                 CORPORATE SEAL

   The corporate seal shall consist of a die bearing the name of the Corporation
and the state and date of its incorporation.  Said seal may be used by causing
it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.


                                  ARTICLE VIII

          INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS

SECTION 1.  POWER TO INDEMNIFY IN ACTIONS, SUITS OR PROCEEDINGS OTHER THAN THOSE
BY OR IN THE RIGHT OF THE CORPORATION.   Subject to Section 3 of this ARTICLE
VIII, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is
threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action,
suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative
(other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the
fact that he is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a
director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation
as a director or officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership,
joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, against
expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in
settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such
action, suit or proceeding if he acted in good faith and in a manner he
reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the
Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no
reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful.   The termination of any
action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a
plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a
        ---- ----------                                                  
presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he
reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the
Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had
reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.  The right to
indemnification conferred in this ARTICLE VIII shall be a contract right.


SECTION 2. POWER TO INDEMNIFY IN ACTIONS, SUITS OR PROCEEDINGS BY OR IN THE
RIGHT OF THE CORPORATION. Subject to Section 3 of this ARTICLE VIII, the
Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to
be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in
the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the
fact that he is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a
director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation
as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership,
joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against expenses
(including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in
connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if he acted in
good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the
best interests of the Corporation; except that no indemnification shall be made
in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been
adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the
Court of Chancery or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall
determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in
view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably
entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Court of Chancery or such
other court shall deem proper.

                                       14
<PAGE>
 
SECTION 3.  AUTHORIZATION OF INDEMNIFICATION.  Any indemnification under this
ARTICLE VIII (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only
as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of
the director or officer is proper in the circumstances because he has met the
applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or Section 2 of this
ARTICLE VIII, as the case may be.  Such determination shall be made (i) by the
Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who
were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, or (ii) if such a quorum is
not obtainable, or, even if obtainable a quorum of disinterested directors so
directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (iii) by the
stockholders.  To the extent, however, that a director or officer of the
Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any
action, suit or proceeding described above, or in defense of any claim, issue or
matter therein, he shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys'
fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith, without
the necessity of authorization in the specific case.


SECTION 4.  GOOD FAITH DEFINED.  For purposes of any determination under Section
3 of this ARTICLE VIII, a person shall be deemed to have acted in good faith and
in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests
of the Corporation, or, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, to
have had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful, if his action
is based on the records or books of account of the Corporation or another
enterprise, or on information supplied to him by the officers of the Corporation
or another enterprise in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal
counsel for the Corporation or another enterprise or on information or records
given or reports made to the Corporation or another enterprise by an independent
certified public accountant or by an appraiser or other expert selected with
reasonable care by the Corporation or another enterprise.  The term "another
enterprise" as used in this Section 4 shall mean any other corporation or any
partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of
which such person is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a
director, officer, employee or agent.   The provisions of this Section 4 shall
not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the circumstances in which
a person may be deemed to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth
in Sections 1 or 2 of this ARTICLE VIII, as the case may be.


SECTION 5.  INDEMNIFICATION BY A COURT.  Notwithstanding any contrary
determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this ARTICLE VIII, and
notwithstanding the absence of any determination thereunder, any director or
officer may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction in the State of
Delaware for indemnification to the extent otherwise permissible under Sections
1 and 2 of this ARTICLE VIII.  The basis of such indemnification by a court
shall be a determination by such court that indemnification of the director or
officer is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable
standards of conduct set forth in Sections 1 or 2 of this ARTICLE VIII, as the
case may be.  Neither a contrary determination in the specific case under
Section 3 of this ARTICLE VIII nor the absence of any determination thereunder
shall be a defense to such application or create a presumption that the director
or officer seeking indemnification has not met any applicable standard of
conduct.  Notice of any application for indemnification pursuant to this Section
5 shall be given to the Corporation promptly upon the filing of such
application.   If successful, in whole or in part, the director or officer
seeking indemnification shall also be entitled to be paid the expense of
prosecuting such application.


SECTION 6.  EXPENSES PAYABLE IN ADVANCE.  Expenses incurred by a director or
officer in defending or investigating a threatened or pending action, suit or
proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition
of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on
behalf of such director or officer to repay such amount if it shall ultimately
be
  
                                       15
<PAGE>
 
determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as
authorized in this ARTICLE VIII.


SECTION 7.  NONEXCLUSIVITY OF INDEMNIFICATION AND ADVANCEMENT OF EXPENSES.  The
indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or granted pursuant to
this ARTICLE VIII shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which
those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under
any By-Law, agreement, contract, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors
or pursuant to the direction (howsoever embodied) of any court of competent
jurisdiction or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to
action in another capacity while holding such office, it being the policy of the
Corporation that indemnification of the persons specified in Sections 1 and 2 of
this ARTICLE VIII shall be made to the fullest extent permitted by law.  The
provisions of this ARTICLE VIII shall not be deemed to preclude the
indemnification of any person who is not specified in Sections 1 or 2 of this
ARTICLE VIII but whom the Corporation has the power or obligation to indemnify
under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or
otherwise.


SECTION 8.  INSURANCE.  The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on
behalf of any person who is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or
is or was a director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the
Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation,
partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise
against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such
capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation
would have the power or the obligation to indemnify him against such liability
under the provisions of this ARTICLE VIII.


SECTION 9.  CERTAIN DEFINITIONS.  For purposes of this ARTICLE VIII, references
to "the Corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation,
any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent)
absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had
continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors or
officers, so that any person who is or was a director or officer of such
constituent corporation, or is or was a director or officer of such constituent
corporation serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a
director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint
venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, shall stand in the
same position under the provisions of this ARTICLE VIII with respect to the
resulting or surviving corporation as he would have with respect to such
constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.  For purposes
of this ARTICLE VIII, references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes
assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to
"serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a
director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on,
or involves services by, such director or officer with respect to an employee
benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good
faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the interest of the
participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to
have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as
referred to in this ARTICLE VIII.


SECTION 10.  SURVIVAL OF INDEMNIFICATION AND ADVANCEMENT OF EXPENSES.  The
indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to,
this ARTICLE VIII shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified,
continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall
inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a
person.

                                       16
<PAGE>
 
SECTION 11.  LIMITATION ON INDEMNIFICATION.  Notwithstanding anything contained
in this ARTICLE VIII to the contrary, except for proceedings to enforce rights
to indemnification (which shall be governed by Section 5 hereof), the
Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify any director or officer in
connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless
such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or consented to by the Board of
Directors of the Corporation.


SECTION 12.  INDEMNIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS.  The Corporation may, to
the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, provide
rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to employees and
agents of the Corporation similar to those conferred in this ARTICLE VIII to
directors and officers of the Corporation.


SECTION 13.  EFFECT OF AMENDMENT.   Any amendment, repeal or modification of
this ARTICLE VIII shall not (a) adversely affect any right or protection of any
director or officer existing at the time of such amendment, repeal or
modification, or (b) apply to the indemnification of any such person for
liability, expense, or loss stemming from actions or omissions occurring prior
to such amendment, repeal, or modification.


SECTION 14.  AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENTS.   The
Corporation may enter into indemnification agreements with the directors and
officers of the Corporation, including, without limitation, any indemnification
agreement in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit 1 attached to these By-
Laws.


                                   ARTICLE IX

                                    NOTICES

Whenever, under any provisions of these By-Laws, notice is required to be given
to any stockholder, the same shall be given in writing, timely and duly
deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, and addressed to his last
known post office address as shown by the stock record of the Corporation or its
transfer agent.  Any notice required to be given to any director may be given by
any of the methods stated in Section 8 of ARTICLE III hereof, except that such
notice other than one which is delivered personally, shall be sent to such
address or (in the case of facsimile telecommunication) facsimile telephone
number as such director shall have disclosed in writing to the Secretary of the
Corporation, or, in the absence of such filing, to the last known post office
address of such director.  If no address of a stockholder or director be known,
such notice may be sent to the office of the Corporation required to be
maintained pursuant to Section 2 of ARTICLE I hereof.  An affidavit of mailing,
executed by a duly authorized and competent employee of the Corporation or its
transfer agent appointed with respect to the class of stock affected, specifying
the name and address or the names and addresses of the stockholder or
stockholders, director or directors, to whom any such notice or notices was or
were given, and the time and method of giving the same, shall be conclusive
evidence of the statements therein contained.  All notices given by mail, as
above provided, shall be deemed to have been given as at the time of mailing and
all notices given by telegram or other means of electronic transmission shall be
deemed to have been given as at the sending time recorded by the telegraph
company or other electronic transmission equipment operator transmitting the
same.  It shall not be necessary that the same method of giving be employed in
respect of all directors, but one permissible method may be employed in respect
of any one or more, and any other permissible method or methods may be employed
in respect of any other or others.  The period or limitation of time within
which any stockholder may exercise any option or right, or enjoy any privilege
or benefit, or be required to 

                                       17
<PAGE>
 
act, or within which any director may exercise any power or right, or enjoy any
privilege, pursuant to any notice sent him in the manner above provided, shall
not be affected or extended in any manner by the failure of such a stockholder
or such director to receive such notice. Whenever any notice is required to be
given under the provisions of this statutes or of the Certificate of
Incorporation, or of these By-Laws, a waiver thereof in writing signed by the
person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time
stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto. Whenever notice is required
to be given, under any provision of law or of the Certificate of Incorporation
or By-Laws of the Corporation, to any person with whom communication is
unlawful, the giving of such notice to such person shall not be required and
there shall be no duty to apply to any governmental authority or agency for a
license or permit to give such notice to such person. Any action or meeting
which shall be taken or held without notice to any such person with whom
communication is unlawful shall have the same force and effect as if such notice
had been duly given. In the event that the action taken by the Corporation is
such as to require the filing of a certificate under any provision of the
Delaware General Corporation Law, the certificate shall state, if such is the
fact and if notice is required, that notice was given to all persons entitled to
receive notice except such persons with whom communication is unlawful.


                                   ARTICLE X

                                   AMENDMENTS

The Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, alter and repeal the
By-Laws of the Corporation in whole or in part at any regular or special meeting
of the Board of Directors, by vote of a majority of the entire Board of
Directors.  Except where ARTICLE V of the Certificate of Incorporation of the
Corporation requires a higher vote, the By-Laws may also be adopted, altered or
repealed in whole or in part at any annual or special meeting of the
stockholders by the affirmative vote of three fourths of the shares of the
Corporation outstanding and entitled to vote thereon.


CERTIFICATE OF SECRETARY

The undersigned, Vice President and Corporate Secretary of McKesson Corporation,
a Delaware corporation, hereby certifies that the foregoing is a full, true and
correct copy of the By-Laws of said Corporation, with all amendments to date of
this Certificate.

WITNESS the signature of the undersigned and the seal of the Corporation this
____ day of ___________, 19__.



                                    
                                    ----------------------------------------
                                    Vice President and Corporate Secretary

                                       18
<PAGE>
 
                                                                       EXHIBIT 1


                           INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT


AGREEMENT, effective as of ______, 19__, between McKesson Corporation, a
Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and ______________ (the "Indemnitee").

WHEREAS, it is essential to the Company to retain and attract as directors and
officers the most capable persons available.

WHEREAS, Indemnitee is a director/officer of the Company;

WHEREAS, both the Company and Indemnitee recognize the increased risk of
litigation and other claims being asserted against directors of public companies
in today's environment;

WHEREAS, the Certificate of Incorporation and the By-laws of the Company require
the Company to indemnify and advance expenses to its directors to the fullest
extent permitted by law and the Indemnitee has been serving and continues to
serve as a director or officer of the Company in part in reliance on such
Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws;

WHEREAS, in recognition of Indemnitee's need for substantial protection against
personal liability in order to enhance Indemnitee's continued service to the
Company in an effective manner and Indemnitee's reliance on the aforesaid
Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws, and in part to provide Indemnitee with
specific contractual assurance that the protection promised by such Certificate
of Incorporation and By-laws will be available to Indemnitee (regardless of,
among other things, any amendment to or revocation of such Certificate of
Incorporation and By-laws or any change in the composition of the Company's
Board of Directors or acquisition transaction relating to the Company), and in
order to induce Indemnitee to continue to provide services to the Company as a
director or officer thereof, the Company wishes to provide in this Agreement for
the indemnification of and the advancing of expenses to Indemnitee to the
fullest extent (whether partial or complete) permitted by law and as set forth
in this Agreement, and, to the extent insurance is maintained, for the continued
coverage of Indemnitee under the Company's directors' and officers' liability
insurance policies.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of Indemnitee continuing
to serve the Company directly or, at its request, with another enterprise, and
intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:

  
1. CERTAIN DEFINITIONS.

   (a) CHANGE IN CONTROL: shall be deemed to have occurred if (i) any "person"
(as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended), other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities
under an employee benefit plan of the Company or a corporation owned directly or
indirectly by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same
proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, is or becomes the
"beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under said Act), directly or
indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the total
voting power represented by the Company's then outstanding Voting Securities, or
(ii) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the
beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the Company and
any new director whose election by the Board of Directors or nomination for
election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-
thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office
<PAGE>
 
who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or
nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to
constitute a majority thereof, or (iii) the stockholders of the Company approve
a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than
a merger or consolidation which would result in the Voting Securities of the
Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by
remaining outstanding or by being converted into Voting Securities of the
surviving entity) at least 80% of the total voting power represented by the
Voting Securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding
immediately after such merger or consolidation, or the stockholders of the
Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement
for the sale or disposition by the Company (in one transaction or a series of
transactions) of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.

   (b) EXPENSE:  include attorneys' fees and all other costs, expenses and
obligations paid or incurred in connection with investigating, defending, being
a witness in or participating in (including on appeal), or preparing to defend,
be a witness in or participate in any Proceeding relating to any Indemnifiable
Event.

   (c) INDEMNIFIABLE EVENT:  any event or occurrence that takes place either
prior to or after the execution of this Agreement, related to the fact that
Indemnitee is or was a director or an officer of the Company, or while a
director or officer is or was serving at the request of the Company as a
director, officer, employee, trustee, agent or fiduciary of another corporation,
partnership, joint venture, employee benefit plan, trust or other enterprise, or
by reason of anything done or not done by Indemnitee in any such capacity.

   (d) POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL:  shall be deemed to have occurred if (i) the
Company enters into an agreement or arrangement, the consummation of which would
result in the occurrence of Change in Control; (ii) any person (including the
Company) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions
which if consummated would constitute Change in Control; (iii) any person, other
than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit
plan of the Company acting in such capacity or a corporation owned, directly or
indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same
proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, who is or becomes the
beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company
representing 10% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then
outstanding Voting Securities, increases his beneficial ownership of such
securities by 5% or more over the percentage so owned by such person on the date
hereof; or (iv) the Board adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes
of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control has occurred.

   (e) PROCEEDING:  any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or
proceeding, or any inquiry, hearing or investigation, whether conducted by the
Company or any other party, that Indemnitee in good faith believes might lead to
the institution of any such action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal,
administrative, investigative or other.

   (f) REVIEWING PARTY:  any appropriate person or body consisting of a member
or members of the Company's Board of Directors or any other person or body
appointed by the Board (including the special, independent counsel referred to
in Section 3) who is not a party to the particular Proceeding with respect to
which Indemnitee is seeking indemnification.

   (g) VOTING SECURITIES:  any securities of the Company which vote generally in
the election of directors.
  
                                       2
<PAGE>
 
2. AGREEMENT TO INDEMNIFY.

   (a) In the event Indemnitee was, is or becomes a party to or witness or other
participant in, or is threatened to be made a party to or witness or other
participant in, a Proceeding by reason of (or arising in part out of) an
Indemnifiable Event, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest
extent permitted by law, as soon as practicable but in any event no later than
thirty days after written demand is presented to the Company, against any and
all Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement
(including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in
connection with or in respect of such Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties or
amounts paid in settlement) of such Proceeding and any federal, state, local or
foreign taxes imposed on the Indemnitee as a result of the actual or deemed
receipt of any payments under this Agreement (including the creation of the
Trust).  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary and except
as provided in Section 5, prior to a Change in Control Indemnitee shall not be
entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement in connection with any
Proceeding initiated by Indemnitee against the Company or any director or
officer of the Company unless the Company has joined in or consented to the
initiation of such Proceeding.  If so requested by Indemnitee, the Company shall
advance (within ten business days of such request) any and all Expenses to
Indemnitee (an "Expense Advance").

   (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the obligations of the Company under
Section 2(a) shall be subject to the condition that the Reviewing Party shall
not have determined (in a written opinion, in any case in which the special,
independent counsel referred to in Section 3 hereof is involved) that Indemnitee
would not be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law, and (ii) the
obligation of the Company to make an Expense Advance pursuant to Section 2(a)
shall be subject to the condition that, if, when and to the extent that the
Reviewing Party determines that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be so
indemnified under applicable law, the Company shall be entitled to be reimbursed
by Indemnitee (who hereby agrees to reimburse the Company) for all such amounts
theretofore paid; provided, however, that if Indemnitee has commenced legal
proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to secure a determination that
Indemnitee should be indemnified under applicable law, any determination made by
the Reviewing Party that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified
under applicable law shall not be binding and Indemnitee shall not be required
to reimburse the Company for any Expense Advance until a final judicial
determination is made with respect thereto (as to which all rights of appeal
therefrom have been exhausted or lapsed).  Indemnitee's obligation to reimburse
the Company for Expense Advances shall be unsecured and no interest shall be
charged thereon.  If there has not been a Change in Control the Reviewing Party
shall be selected by the Board of Directors, and if there has been such a Change
in Control (other than a Change in Control which has been approved by a majority
of the Company's Board of Directors who were directors immediately prior to such
Change in Control), the Reviewing Party shall be the special, independent
counsel referred to in Section 3 hereof.  If there has been no determination by
the Reviewing Party or if the Reviewing Party determines that Indemnitee
substantively would not be permitted to be indemnified in whole or in part under
applicable law, Indemnitee shall have the right to commence litigation in any
court in the States of California or Delaware having subject matter jurisdiction
thereof and in which venue is proper seeking an initial determination by the
court or challenging any such determination by the Reviewing Party or any aspect
thereof, and the Company hereby consents to service of process and to appear in
any such proceeding.  Any determination by the Reviewing Party otherwise shall
be conclusive and binding on the Company and Indemnitee.


3. CHANGE IN CONTROL.   The Company agrees that if there is a Change in Control
of the Company (other than a Change in Control which has been approved by a
majority of the Company's Board of Directors who were directors immediately
prior to such Change in Control) then with respect to all matters thereafter
arising concerning the rights of Indemnitee to indemnity payments and Expense
Advances under this Agreement or any other agreement or under applicable
  
                                       3
<PAGE>
 
law or the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws now or hereafter
in effect relating to indemnification for Indemnifiable Events, the Company
shall seek legal advice only from special, independent counsel selected by
Indemnitee and approved by the Company (which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld), and who has not otherwise performed services for the Company or the
Indemnitee (other than in connection with such matters) within the last five
years. Such independent counsel shall not include any person who, under the
applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a
conflict of interest in representing either the Company or Indemnitee in an
action to determine Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement. Such counsel,
among other things, shall render its written opinion to the Company and
Indemnitee as to whether and to what extent the Indemnitee would be permitted to
be indemnified under applicable law. The Company agrees to pay the reasonable
fees of the special, independent counsel referred to above and to indemnify
fully such counsel against any and all expenses (including attorneys' fees),
claims, liabilities and damages arising out of or relating to this Agreement or
the engagement of special, independent counsel pursuant hereto.


4. ESTABLISHMENT OF TRUST.   In the event of a Potential Change in Control, the
Company shall, upon written request by Indemnitee, create a Trust for the
benefit of the Indemnitee and from time to time upon written request of
Indemnitee shall fund such Trust in an amount sufficient to satisfy any and all
Expenses reasonably anticipated at the time of each such request to be incurred
in connection with investigating, preparing for and defending any Proceeding
relating to an Indemnifiable event, and any and all judgments, fines, penalties
and settlement amounts of any and all Proceedings relating to an Indemnifiable
Event from time to time actually paid or claimed, reasonably anticipated or
proposed to be paid.  The amount or amounts to be deposited in the Trust
pursuant to the foregoing funding obligation shall be determined by the
Reviewing Party, in any case in which the special, independent counsel referred
to above is involved.  The terms of the Trust shall provide that upon a Change
in Control (i) the Trust shall not be revoked or the principal thereof invaded,
without the written consent of the Indemnitee, (ii) the Trustee shall advance,
within ten business days of a request by the Indemnitee, any and all Expenses to
the Indemnitee (and the Indemnitee hereby agrees to reimburse the Trust under
the circumstances under which the Indemnitee would be required to reimburse the
Company under Section 2(b) of this Agreement), (iii) the Trust shall continue to
be funded by the Company in accordance with the funding obligation set forth
above, (iv) the Trustee shall promptly pay to the Indemnitee all amounts for
which the Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification pursuant to this
Agreement or otherwise, and (v) all unexpended funds in such Trust shall revert
to the Company upon a final determination by the Reviewing Party or a court of
competent jurisdiction, as the case may be, that the Indemnitee has been fully
indemnified under the terms of this Agreement.  The Trustee shall be chosen by
the Indemnitee.  Nothing in this Section 4 shall relieve the Company of any of
its obligations under this Agreement.  All income earned on the assets held in
the Trust shall be reported as income by the Company for federal, state, local
and foreign tax purposes.


5. INDEMNIFICATION FOR EXPENSES INCURRED IN ENFORCING THIS AGREEMENT.   The
Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against any and all expenses (including
attorneys' fees), and, if requested by Indemnitee, shall (within ten business
days of such request) advance such expenses to Indemnitee, which are incurred by
Indemnitee in connection with any claim asserted against or action brought by
Indemnitee for (i) indemnification or advance payment of Expenses by the Company
under this Agreement or any other agreement or under applicable law or the
Company's Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws now or hereafter in effect
relating to indemnification for Indemnifiable Events and/or (ii) recovery under
any directors' and officers' liability insurance policies maintained by the
Company, regardless of whether Indemnitee ultimately is determined to be
entitled to such indemnification, advance expense payment or insurance recovery,
as the case may be.
  
                                       4
<PAGE>
 
6. PARTIAL INDEMNITY.   If Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this
Agreement to indemnification by the Company for some or a portion of the
Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement of a
Proceeding but not, however, for all of the total amount thereof, the Company
shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion thereof to which
Indemnitee is entitled.  Moreover, notwithstanding any other provision of this
Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee has been successful on the merits or
otherwise in defense of any or all Proceedings relating in whole or in part to
an Indemnifiable Event or in defense of any issue or
matter therein, including dismissal without prejudice, Indemnitee shall be
indemnified against all Expenses incurred in connection therewith.


7. DEFENSE TO INDEMNIFICATION, BURDEN OF PROOF AND PRESUMPTIONS.   It shall be a
defense  to any action brought by the Indemnitee against the Company to enforce
this Agreement (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses
incurred in defending a Proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the
required undertaking has been tendered to the Company) that the Indemnitee has
not met the standards of conduct that make it permissible under the Delaware
General Corporation Law for the Company to indemnify the Indemnitee for the
amount claimed.  In connection with any determination by the Reviewing Party or
otherwise as to whether the Indemnitee is entitled to be indemnified hereunder,
the burden of proving such a defense shall be on the Company.  Neither the
failure of the Company (including its Board of Directors, independent legal
counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the
commencement of such action by the Indemnitee that indemnification of the
claimant is proper under the circumstances because he or she has met the
applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation
Law, nor an actual determination by the Company (including its Board of
Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the Indemnitee
had not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the
action or create a presumption that the Indemnitee has not met the applicable
standard of conduct.  For purposes of this Agreement, the termination of any
claim, action, suit or proceeding, by judgment, order, settlement (whether with
or without court approval) or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere, or
its equivalent, shall not create a presumption that Indemnitee did not meet any
particular standard of conduct or have any particular belief or that a court has
determined that indemnification is not permitted by applicable law.


8. NON-EXCLUSIVITY.   The rights of the Indemnitee hereunder shall be in
addition to any other rights Indemnitee may have under the Company's Certificate
of Incorporation or By-laws or the Delaware General Corporation Law or
otherwise.  To the extent that a change in the Delaware General Corporation Law
(whether by statute or judicial decision) permits greater indemnification by
agreement than would be afforded currently under the Company's Certificate of
Incorporation and By-laws and this Agreement, it is the intent of the parties
hereto that Indemnitee shall enjoy by this Agreement the greater benefits so
afforded by such change.


9. LIABILITY INSURANCE.   To the extent the Company maintains an insurance
policy or policies providing directors' and officers' liability insurance,
Indemnitee shall be covered by such policy or policies, in accordance with its
or their terms, to the maximum extent of the coverage available for any Company
director or officer.


10.  PERIOD OF LIMITATIONS.   No legal action shall be brought and no cause of
action shall be asserted by or on behalf of the Company or any affiliate of the
Company against Indemnitee, Indemnitee's spouse, heirs, executors or personal or
legal representatives after the expiration of two years from the date of accrual
of such cause of action, or such longer period as may be required by state law
under the circumstances, and any claim or cause of action of the Company or
  
                                       5
<PAGE>
 
its affiliate shall be extinguished and deemed released unless asserted by the
timely filing of a legal action within such period; provided, however, that if
any shorter period of limitations is otherwise applicable to any such cause of
action such shorter period shall govern.


11.  AMENDMENT OF THIS AGREEMENT.   No supplement, modification or amendment of
this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by both of the
parties hereto.  No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be
deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions hereof (whether or
not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.


12.  SUBROGATION.   In the event of payment under this Agreement, the Company
shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of
recovery of Indemnitee, who shall execute all papers required and shall do
everything that may be necessary to secure such rights, including the execution
of such documents necessary to enable the Company effectively to bring suit to
enforce such rights.


13.  NO DUPLICATION OF PAYMENTS.   The Company shall not be liable under this
Agreement to make any payment in connection with any claim made against
Indemnitee to the extent Indemnitee has otherwise actually received payment
(under any insurance policy, By-law or otherwise) of the amounts otherwise
indemnifiable hereunder.


14.  SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.    The Company shall not be liable to indemnify
Indemnitee under this Agreement for any amounts paid in settlement of any action
or claim effected without the Company's written consent.  The Company shall not
settle any action or claim in any manner which would impose any penalty or
limitation on Indemnitee without Indemnitee's written consent.  Neither the
Company nor the Indemnitee will unreasonably withhold their consent to any
proposed settlement.  The Company shall not be liable to indemnify the
Indemnitee under this Agreement with regard to any judicial award if the Company
was not given a reasonable and timely opportunity, at its expense, to
participate in the defense of such action.


15.  BINDING EFFECT.   This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the
benefit of and be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective
successors, assigns, including any direct or indirect successor by purchase,
merger, consolidation or otherwise to all or substantially all of the business
and/or assets of the Company, spouses, heirs, and personal and legal
representatives.  The Company shall require and cause any successor (whether
direct or indirect by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all,
substantially all, or a substantial part, of the business and/or assets of the
Company, by written agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the
Indemnitee, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same
manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if
no such succession had taken place.  This Agreement shall continue in effect
regardless of whether Indemnitee continues to serve as a director or officer of
the Company or of any other enterprise at the Company's request.


16.  SEVERABILITY.   The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable in the
event that any of the provisions hereof (including any provision within a single
section, paragraph or sentence) is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable, and the remaining provisions shall
remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.  Furthermore, to the
fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Agreement (including, without
limitation, each portion of this Agreement containing any provision held to be
invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable, that
  
                                       6
<PAGE>
 
is not itself invalid, void or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give
effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or
unenforceable.


17.  GOVERNING LAW.   This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and
enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to
contracts made and to be performed in such State without giving effect to the
principles of conflicts of laws.



IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed and delivered this
Agreement as of the _______________ day of __________________, 19___.


                                        McKESSON CORPORATION


                                        By: ______________________
                                            Name:
                                            Title:

                                            ______________________
                                            (Indemnitee)
                                            
                                       7
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.23
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>TERMINATION AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.23


                             TERMINATION AGREEMENT
                             ---------------------

     THIS TERMINATION AGREEMENT, dated as of ________________ is made and
entered into by and between McKESSON CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation with
its principal office at One Post Street, San Francisco, California (the
"Company"), and ________________ ("Executive").


                                R E C I T A L S
                                - - - - - - - -

     A.  Company desires to enter into an agreement with Executive whereby
severance benefits will be paid to Executive on change in control of the Company
and consequent actual or constructive termination of Executive's employment.

     B.  This Agreement sets forth the severance benefits which the Company
agrees that it will pay to the Executive if Executive's employment with the
Company terminates under one of the circumstances described herein following a
Change in Control of the Company.

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and the mutual
covenants contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:

     1.   Term of Agreement.  This Agreement shall be effective immediately on
          -----------------                                                   
the date hereof and shall continue in effect through ____________;
provided, however, that commencing on January 1, 19__ and each January 1
thereafter, the term of this Agreement shall automatically be extended for one
additional year unless not later than September 30 of the preceding year, the
Company shall have given notice that it does not wish to extend this Agreement;
provided, further, that notwithstanding any such notice by the Company not to
extend, this Agreement shall automatically be extended for 24 months beyond the
term provided herein if a Change in Control, as defined in Section 3 of this
Agreement has occurred during the term of this Agreement.

     2.   Effect on Employment Rights.  This Agreement is not part of any
          ---------------------------                                    
employment agreement that the Company and Executive may have entered into.
Nothing in this Agreement shall confer upon Executive any right to continue in
the employ of the Company or interfere with or restrict in any way the rights of
the Company, which are hereby expressly reserved, to terminate Employee's
employment at any time prior to a Change in Control for any reason, with or
without cause.
<PAGE>
 
     Executive agrees that, subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, in the event of a potential change in control of the Company (as
defined below), Executive will remain in the employ of the Company during the
pendency of any such potential change in control and for a period of one year
after the occurrence of an actual Change in Control.  For this purpose, a
"potential change in control of the Company" shall be deemed to have occurred if
(a) the Company enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result
in the occurrence of a Change in Control, (b) any person (including the Company)
publicly announces an intention to take or consider taking action which if
consummated would constitute a Change in Control or (c) the Board of Directors
of the Company (the "Board") adopts a resolution to the effect that a potential
change in control of the Company has occurred.

     3.   Change in Control.  For purposes of this Agreement, a "Change in
          -----------------                                               
Control" of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred if any of the events
set forth in any one of the following paragraphs shall occur:

          (a)  any "person" (as defined in section 3(a)(9) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and as such term is
     modified in sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), excluding the
     Company or any of its subsidiaries, a trustee or any fiduciary holding
     securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its
     subsidiaries, an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an
     offering of such securities or a corporation owned, directly or indirectly,
     by stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as
     their ownership of the Company, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as
     defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of
     securities of the Company representing 30% or more of the combined voting
     power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or

          (b)  during any period of not more than two consecutive years,
     individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board and
     any new director (other than a director designated by a Person who has
     entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction
     described in clause (a), (c) or (d) of this paragraph) whose election by
     the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was
     approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still
     in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose
     election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for
     any reason to constitute a majority thereof; or
<PAGE>
 
          (c)  the shareholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation
     of the Company with any other corporation, other than (i) a merger or
     consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company
     outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by
     remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the
     surviving entity), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or
     other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the
     Company, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities
     of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such
     merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to
     implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in
     which no person acquires more than 50% of the combined voting power of the
     Company's then outstanding securities; or

          (d)  the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete
     liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by
     the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.

     Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Change in Control shall be deemed to have
     occurred if there is consummated any transaction or series of integrated
     transactions immediately following which, in the judgment of the
     Compensation Committee of the Board, the holders of the Company's Common
     Stock immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions
     continue to have the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns
     all or substantially all of the assets of the Company immediately prior to
     such transaction or series of transactions.

     4.   Termination of Employment Following a Change in Control.  Executive
          -------------------------------------------------------            
shall be entitled to the benefits provided in Section 5 hereof upon the
subsequent termination of Executive's employment by the company within two years
after a Change in Control which occurs during the term of this Agreement,
provided such termination is (a) by the Company other than for Cause, as defined
below, or (b) by Executive for Good Reason, as defined below.  Executive shall
not be entitled to the benefits of Section 5, any other provision of the Plan
to the contrary notwithstanding, if Executive's employment terminates:  (i)
pursuant to a mandatory retirement policy in effect prior to the Change in
Control, (ii) by reason of Executive's death or (iii) by reason of Executive's
total and permanent disability.  As used herein, "total and permanent
disability" means a condition which prevents Executive from performing to a
significant degree the essential duties of his or her position and is expected
to be of long-term duration or result in death.  A determination of total and
permanent disability must be based on competent medical evidence.

          (a)  Cause.
               ----- 
<PAGE>
 
          (i)  Definition. Termination by the Company of Executive's employment
               ----------
     for Cause shall mean termination upon Executive's willful engaging in
     misconduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company
     and its subsidiaries taken as a whole. No act, or failure to act, on
     Executive's part shall be considered "willful" unless done, or omitted to
     be done, by Executive not in good faith and without reasonable belief that
     Executive's action or omission was in the best interest of the Company or
     its subsidiaries. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Executive shall not be
     deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have
     been delivered to Executive a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the
     affirmative vote of not less than three quarters of the entire membership
     of the Board at a meeting of the Board called and held for the purpose of
     making a determination of whether Cause for termination exists (after
     reasonable notice to Executive and an opportunity for Executive to be heard
     before the Board), finding that in the good faith opinion of the Board
     Executive was guilty of misconduct as set forth above in this subsection 4
     and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.

          (ii) Remedy by Executive.  If the Company gives Executive a Notice of
               -------------------                                             
     Termination which states that the basis for terminating Executive's
     employment is Cause, Executive shall have ten days after receipt of such
     Notice to remedy the facts and circumstances which provided Cause.  The
     Board (or any duly authorized Committee thereof) shall make a good faith
     reasonable determination immediately after such ten-day period whether such
     facts and circumstances have been remedied and shall communicate such
     determination in writing to Executive.  If the Board determines that
     adequate remedy has not occurred, then the initial Notice of Termination
     shall remain in effect.

          (b)  Good Reason.  After a Change in Control, Executive may terminate
               -----------                                                     
     employment with the Company at any time during the term of this Agreement
     if Executive has made a good faith reasonable determination that Good
     Reason exists for this termination.

               (i)  Definition.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason"
                    ----------                                                
          shall mean any of the following actions, if taken without the express
          written consent of Executive:

               A.  any material change by the Company in Executive's functions,
          duties, or responsibilities which change would cause Executive's
          position with the Company to become of less dignity, responsibility,
          importance, or scope from the position and attributes that applied to
<PAGE>
 
          Executive immediately prior to the Change in Control;

               B.  any significant reduction in Executive's base salary, other
          than a reduction effected as part of an across-the-board reduction
          affecting all executive employees of the Company;

               C.  any material failure by the Company to comply with any of the
          provisions of this Agreement (or of any employment agreement between
          the parties);

               D.  the Company's requiring Executive to be based at any office
          or location more than 25 miles from the office at which Executive is
          based on the date immediately preceding the Change in Control, except
          for travel reasonably required in the performance of Executive's
          responsibilities and commensurate with the amount of travel required
          of Executive prior to the Change in Control; or

               E.  any failure by the Company to obtain the express assumption
          of this Agreement by any successor or assign of the Company.

               Executive's right to terminate employment for Good Reason
          pursuant to this subsection 4 shall not be affected by Executive's
          incapacity due to physical or mental illness.

               (ii) Remedy by Company.  If Executive gives the Company a Notice
                    -----------------                                          
          of Termination which states that the basis for Executive's termination
          of employment is Good Reason, the Company shall have ten days after
          receipt of such Notice to remedy the facts and circumstances which
          provided Good Reason.  Executive shall make a good faith reasonable
          determination immediately after such ten-day period whether such facts
          and circumstances have been remedied and shall communicate such
          determination in writing to the Company.  If Executive determines that
          adequate remedy has not occurred, then the initial Notice of
          Termination shall remain in effect.

               (iii)  Determination by Executive Presumed Correct.  Any
                      -------------------------------------------      
          determination by Executive pursuant to this Section 4 that Good
          Reason exists for Executive's termination of employment and that
          adequate remedy has not occurred shall be presumed correct and shall
          govern unless the party contesting the determination shows by a clear
          preponderance of the evidence that it was not a good faith reasonable
          determination.
<PAGE>
 
               (iv)  Severance Payment Made Notwithstanding Dispute.
                     ----------------------------------------------  
          Notwithstanding any dispute concerning whether Good Reason exists for
          termination of employment or whether adequate remedy has occurred, the
          Company shall immediately pay to Executive, as specified in Section
          5, any amounts otherwise due under this Agreement.  Executive may be
          required to repay such amounts to the Company if any such dispute is
          finally determined adversely to Executive.

          (c)  Notice of Termination.  Any termination of Executive's employment
               ---------------------                                            
     by the Company or by Executive hereunder shall be communicated by a Notice
     of Termination to the other party hereto.  For purposes of this Agreement,
     a "Notice of Termination" shall mean a written notice which shall indicate
     the specific termination provisions in this Agreement relied upon and which
     sets forth (i) in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to
     provide a basis for termination of Executive's employment under the
     provision so indicated and (ii) the date of Executive's termination of
     employment, which shall be no earlier than 10 days after such Notice is
     received by the other party.  Any purported termination of the Executive's
     employment by the Company which is not effected pursuant to a Notice of
     Termination satisfying the requirements of this Agreement shall not be
     effective.  In the case of a termination for Cause, the Notice of
     Termination shall also satisfy the requirements set forth in Section 4B.

     5.   Severance Payment Upon Termination of Employment.  If Executive's
          ------------------------------------------------                 
employment with the Company is terminated during the term of this Agreement and
after a Change in Control (a) by the Company other than for Cause, or (b) by
Executive for Good Reason, then Executive shall be entitled to the following:

          (a)  The Company shall immediately pay to Executive in a cash lump sum
     an amount equal to (i) 2.99 multiplied by Executive's "base amount"
     determined pursuant to section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
     as amended (the "Code"), less (ii) any other amount which constitutes a
     "parachute payment" to Executive as defined in section 280G(b)(2) of the
     Code.

          (b)  The Company shall continue Executive's coverage in the health and
     welfare benefit plans in which Executive was a participant as of the date
     of Executive's termination of employment for the period of time with
     respect to which Executive would be entitled to payments under the
     Company's executive severance policy if Executive's termination of
     employment were covered by such policy.

          (c)  Executive shall continue to accrue benefits under the Executive
     Benefit Retirement Plan for the
<PAGE>
 
     period of time with respect to which Executive would be entitled to
     payments under the Company's executive severance policy if Executive's
     termination of employment were covered by such policy.  In addition, if
     Executive is age 55 or more and has 15 or more years of service (as
     determined under such Plan on the date of Executive's termination of
     employment), then such termination shall automatically be deemed to be an
     "Approved Retirement" under the terms of such Executive Benefit Retirement
     Plan.

     6.   Section 280G Cap.  It is the intent of the parties hereto that no
          ----------------                                                 
amount payable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall cause any payment
or transfer by the Company to or for the benefit of Executive, whether paid or
payable (or transferred or transferable) pursuant to the terms of this Agreement
or otherwise (a "Payment"), to be subject to taxation under section 4999 of the
Code and as an "excess parachute payment" as defined in section 280G of the
Code.  In the event that the last independent auditors selected by the Board
prior to the termination of Executive under this Agreement (the "Auditors")
determine that any such item constitutes an "excess parachute payment," and that
the limitation of this Section 6 would result in a larger after-tax benefit to
Executive, then Executive may (but is not required to) irrevocably elect to
relinquish or not exercise any payments or benefits available to Executive under
any plan, contract or program before the payment or enjoyment thereof in order
to limit such payments or benefits for the purpose of (i) eliminating any
"excess parachute payment" or (ii) causing Executive to become eligible to
receive all or any portion of the cash payment that would be made pursuant to
Section 5 of this Agreement if Executive had no "parachute payments" as defined
in section 280G(b)(2) of the Code.  For purposes of these calculations, (i) all
amounts received in connection with Executive's employment by the Company or to
be received by Executive in connection with a change in the ownership or
effective control of the Company, or a change in the ownership of a substantial
portion of the assets of the Company (including but not limited to payments or
benefits that Executive becomes entitled to in connection with a "Change in
Control" as defined in Section 3 hereof) shall be treated as "parachute
payments" within the meaning of section 280G(b)(2) of the Code, except to the
extent that such amounts are (A) relinquished pursuant to the preceding sentence
or (B) identified in the written opinion of independent tax counsel selected by
the Auditors and approved by Executive (which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld) as not constituting parachute payments or excess parachute payments
(in whole or in part), or as representing reasonable compensation for personal
services to be rendered or actually rendered before the Change in Control in
excess of the base amount, within the meaning of section 280G(b)(4)(B) of the
Code, and (ii) the value of any non-cash benefit or any deferred cash payment
included in the calculations shall be determined by the Auditors in accordance
with the principles of section 280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code.  The Company
shall bear the expense of obtaining the opinion of the independent tax counsel
referred to in the preceding sentence.
<PAGE>
 
     7.    Damages.  Executive shall not be required to mitigate damages with
           -------                                                           
respect to the amount of any payment provided under this Agreement by seeking
other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any payment provided
under this Agreement be reduced by retirement benefits, deferred compensation or
any compensation earned by Executive as a result of employment by another
employer.

     8.    Successor to Company.  The Company shall require any successor or
           --------------------                                             
assign (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or
otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the
Company, by agreement in form and substance satisfactory to Executive,
expressly, absolutely and unconditionally to assume and agree to perform this
Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be
required to perform it if no such succession or assignment had taken place.  As
used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined
and any successor or assign to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which
executes and delivers the agreement provided for in this section or which
otherwise becomes bound by all the terms and provisions of this Agreement by
operation of law.

     9.    Heirs of Executive.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and
           ------------------                                                   
be enforceable by Executive's personal and legal representatives, executors,
administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees.  If
Executive should die while any amounts are still payable to Executive hereunder,
all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement to Executive's devisee, legatee, or other
designee or, if there be so such designee, to Executive's estate.

     10.   Arbitration.  Any dispute, controversy or claim arising under or in
           -----------                                                        
connection with this Agreement, or the breach hereof, shall be settled
exclusively by arbitration in accordance with the Rules of the American
Arbitration Association then in effect.  Judgment upon the award rendered by the
arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction.  Any
arbitration held pursuant to this section in connection with Executive's
termination of employment shall take place in San Francisco, California at the
earliest possible date.  If any proceeding is necessary to enforce or interpret
the terms of this Agreement, or to recover damages for breach thereof, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys fees and necessary
costs and disbursements, not to exceed in the aggregate one percent (1%) of the
net worth of the other party, in addition to any other relief to which he or it
may be entitled.

     11.   Notice.  For purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other
           ------                                                        
communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be
deemed to have been duly given when delivered by messenger or in person, or when
mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage
prepaid, as follows:
<PAGE>
 
     If to
     the Company:   McKesson Corporation
                    One Post Street
                    San Francisco, CA 94104
                    Attention:  Office of the General Counsel

     If to
     the Executive: ___________________
                    c/o McKesson Corporation
                    One Post Street
                    San Francisco, CA 94104


or such other address as either party may have furnished to the other in writing
in accordance herewith, except that notices of change of address shall be
effective only upon receipt.

     12.  Legal Costs.  The Company shall pay to Executive all reasonable
          -----------                                                    
attorneys' fees and necessary costs and disbursements incurred by or on behalf
of Executive as a result of any dispute arising out of this Agreement.  Such
fees shall be either paid directly by the Company or reimbursed to Executive as
soon as reasonably practicable after Executive has provided the Company with
satisfactory evidence that Executive has incurred liability for and paid such
fees.  To the extent of any conflict, this section shall supersede the last
sentence of Section 10 of this Agreement.

     13.  General Provisions.
          ------------------ 

     (a)  Executive's rights and obligations under this Agreement shall not be
transferable by assignment or otherwise, nor shall Executive's rights be subject
to encumbrance or subject to the claims of the Company's creditors.  Nothing in
this Agreement shall prevent the consolidation of the Company with, or its
merger into, any other corporation, or the sale by the Company of all or
substantially all of its properties or assets; and this Agreement shall inure to
the benefit of, be binding upon and be enforceable by, any successor surviving
or resulting corporation, or other entity to which such assets shall be
transferred.  This Agreement shall not be terminated by the voluntary or
involuntary dissolution of the Company.

     (b)  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties
hereto in respect to the rights and obligations of the parties following a
Change in Control.  This Agreement supersedes and replaces all prior oral and
written agreements, understandings, commitments, and practices between the
parties (whether or not fully performed by Executive prior to the date hereof),
which shall be of no further force or effect.

     (c)  The provisions of this Agreement shall be regarded as divisible, and
if any of said provisions or any part thereof are declared invalid or
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity and
enforceability of the remainder of such provisions or parts thereof and the
applicability thereof shall not be affected thereby.
<PAGE>
 
     (d)  This Agreement may not be amended or modified except by a written
instrument executed by the Company and Executive.

     (e)  This Agreement and the rights and obligations hereunder shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of
California.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date
first above written.

                                               McKESSON CORPORATION
                                               A Delaware corporation
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                               By ___________________________
                                    
                                    
                                    
Attest:                             
                                    
                                    
                                    
By ______________________________ 
           Secretary                
                                    
                                    
By the authority of the                        ______________________________
Compensation Committee of                                 Executive
the Board of Directors of
McKesson Corporation
on _______________. 
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.24
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>RETIREMENT PROGRAM
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.24


                  RETIREMENT PROGRAM FOR NONEMPLOYEE DIRECTORS



Effective Date:     July 27, 1983

Eligibility:        Five years of Board service as a Nonemployee Director.  The
                    minimum retirement age is 65.

Annual Payment      For service as a Nonemployee Director prior
Amount:             to July 29, 1992:

                         100% of annual retainer at time of retirement and an
                         amount equal to the sum of all Board and Committee
                         meeting fees paid to an eligible Director in the
                         preceding twelve months.

                    For service as a Nonemployee Director from and after July
                    29, 1992:

                         100% of annual retainer at time of retirement.

Payment Duration:   Payments will be made for a period equal to length of Board
                    service as a Nonemployee Director with the annual amount
                    prorated for periods of less than one year.  In the event of
                    the death of an eligible Director prior to retirement,
                    benefit payments will be made to the designated beneficiary
                    or to the estate.  If death occurs after retirement, any
                    remaining benefit payments will continue to the designated
                    beneficiary or to the estate.

Regulations:        The members of the Board who are not Nonemployee Directors,
                    shall construe, interpret and administer this program, and
                    shall have the power to adopt regulations relating thereto.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.25
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>CREDIT AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.25

================================================================================
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                               CREDIT AGREEMENT

                          DATED AS OF MARCH 31, 1995

                                     AMONG

                             MCKESSON CORPORATION,

                MEDIS HEALTH AND PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES INC.,

                        BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
                           AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION,
                                   AS AGENT,

                                CHEMICAL BANK,
                                 AS CO-AGENT,

                            BANK OF AMERICA CANADA,
                       AS CANADIAN ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT,

                                      AND

                 THE OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS PARTY HERETO


                                  ARRANGED BY


                              BA SECURITIES, INC.



================================================================================
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
 
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

Section                                                               Page
<S>                                                                   <C> 

                                   ARTICLE I
 

                                  DEFINITIONS.........................   1
                                  -----------
   1.01  Certain Defined Terms........................................   1
         ---------------------
   1.02  Other Interpretive Provisions................................  26
         -----------------------------
   1.03  Accounting Principles........................................  27
         ---------------------
   1.04  Canadian Currency Equivalents................................  28
         -----------------------------

                                  ARTICLE II

                                  THE CREDITS.........................  28
                                  -----------
   2.01  Amounts and Terms of Commitments.............................  28
         --------------------------------
   2.02  Loan Accounts................................................  29
         -------------
   2.03  Procedure for Borrowing......................................  30
         -----------------------
   2.04  Conversion and Continuation Elections........................  31
         -------------------------------------
   2.05  Voluntary Termination or Reduction of Commitments............  34
         -------------------------------------------------
   2.06  Optional Prepayments.........................................  34
         --------------------
   2.07  Repayment....................................................  35
         ---------
   2.08  Interest.....................................................  35
         --------
   2.09  Fees.........................................................  37
         ----
         (a)  Arrangement, Agency Fees................................  37
              ------------------------
         (b)  Facility Fees...........................................  37
              -------------
   2.10  Computation of Fees and Interest.............................  39
         --------------------------------
   2.11  Payments by the Borrowers....................................  40
         -------------------------
   2.12  Payments by the Banks to the Applicable Agent................  41
         ---------------------------------------------
   2.13  Sharing of Payments, Etc.....................................  42
         -------------------------
   2.14  Collateral Pledge............................................  44
         -----------------
   2.15  Utilization of Tranche B Commitments in Canadian Dollars.....  44
         --------------------------------------------------------
   2.16  Currency Exchange Fluctuations...............................  45
         ------------------------------
   2.17  Bankers' Acceptances for Medis...............................  45
         ------------------------------
         (a)  Acceptance Commitment...................................  45
         (b)  Drawing Notice..........................................  46
         (c)  Form of Bankers' Acceptances............................  47
         (d)  Acceptance and Purchase of Drafts.......................  47
         (e)  Payment of Drawing Purchase Price.......................  48
         (f)  Effective Discount Rate Determination...................  48
         (g)  Payment at Maturity.....................................  48
         (h)  Presigned Draft Forms...................................  49
         (i)  Conversion or Renewal of Bankers' Acceptances...........  49
         (j)  Circumstances Making Bankers' Acceptances
              Unavailable.............................................  50
         (k)  Prepayments.............................................  50

                                  ARTICLE III

                    TAXES, YIELD PROTECTION AND ILLEGALITY............  51
                    --------------------------------------
   3.01  Taxes........................................................  51
         -----
   3.02  Illegality...................................................  52
         ----------
   3.03  Increased Costs and Reduction of Return......................  53
         ---------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                       i
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Section                                                               Page
<S>                                                                   <C>


   3.04  Funding Losses...............................................  55
         --------------
   3.05  Inability to Determine Rates.................................  56
         ----------------------------
   3.06  Certificates of Banks........................................  57
         ---------------------
   3.07  Survival.....................................................  57
         --------

                                  ARTICLE IV

                             CONDITIONS PRECEDENT.....................  57
                             --------------------
   4.01  Conditions of Initial Loans..................................  57
         ---------------------------
         (a)  Credit Agreement........................................  57
              ----------------
         (b)  Collateral Documents and Guaranty.......................  57
              ---------------------------------
         (c)  Resolutions; Incumbency.................................  57
              -----------------------
         (d)  Organization Documents; Good Standing...................  58
              -------------------------------------
         (e)  Legal Opinions..........................................  58
              --------------
         (f)  Payment of Fees.........................................  58
              ---------------
         (g)  Company Certificates....................................  58
              --------------------
         (i)  Notice of Election......................................  59
              ------------------
         (j)  UCC Searches............................................  59
              ------------
         (k)  Independent Auditor's Letter............................  59
              ----------------------------
         (l)  Collateral Certificate..................................  59
              ----------------------
         (m)  Other Documents.........................................  60
              ---------------
   4.02  Conditions to All Borrowings.................................  60
         ----------------------------
         (a)  Notice of Borrowing or Conversion/Continuation..........  60
              ----------------------------------------------
         (b)  Continuation of Representations and Warranties..........  60
              ----------------------------------------------
         (c)  No Existing Default.....................................  60
              -------------------
         (d)  Medis Loans.............................................  60
              -----------
   4.03  Conditions to Bankers' Acceptance Facility...................  60
         ------------------------------------------

                                   ARTICLE V

                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES...............  61
                         ------------------------------
   5.01  Corporate Existence and Power................................  61
         -----------------------------
   5.02  Corporate Authorization; No Contravention....................  61
         -----------------------------------------
   5.03  Governmental Authorization...................................  62
         --------------------------
   5.04  Binding Effect...............................................  62
         --------------
   5.05  Litigation...................................................  62
         ----------
   5.06  No Default...................................................  62
         ----------
   5.07  Use of Proceeds; Margin Regulations..........................  63
         -----------------------------------
   5.08  Financial Condition..........................................  63
         -------------------
   5.09  Regulated Entities...........................................  63
         ------------------
   5.10  No Burdensome Restrictions...................................  63
         --------------------------
   5.11  Subsidiaries and Certain Liens As of the Closing Date........  64
         -----------------------------------------------------
   5.12  Collateral Documents.........................................  64
         --------------------

                                  ARTICLE VI

                             AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS....................  64
                             ---------------------
   6.01  Financial Statements.........................................  64
         --------------------
   6.02  Certificates; Other Information..............................  65
         -------------------------------
   6.03  Notices......................................................  65
         -------
</TABLE>

                                       ii
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Section                                                               Page
<S>                                                                   <C>


   6.04  Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc.....................  66
         ----------------------------------------
   6.05  Insurance....................................................  66
         ---------
   6.06  Payment of Taxes.............................................  66
         ----------------
   6.07  Compliance with Laws.........................................  67
         --------------------
   6.08  Inspection of Property and Books and Records.................  67
         --------------------------------------------
   6.09  Use of Proceeds..............................................  67
         ---------------
   6.10  Notice of Rating Change......................................  67
         -----------------------

                                  ARTICLE VII

                              NEGATIVE COVENANTS......................  68
                              ------------------
   7.01  Limitation on Liens..........................................  68
         -------------------
   7.02  Consolidations and Mergers...................................  69
         --------------------------
   7.03  Use of Proceeds..............................................  69
         ---------------
   7.04  Maximum Debt to Capitalization Ratio.........................  70
         ------------------------------------

                                 ARTICLE VIII

                              EVENTS OF DEFAULT.......................  70
                              -----------------
   8.01  Event of Default.............................................  70
         ----------------
         (a)  Non-Payment.............................................  70
              -----------
         (b)  Representation or Warranty..............................  70
              --------------------------
         (c)  Specific Defaults.......................................  70
              -----------------
         (d)  Other Defaults..........................................  70
              --------------
         (e)  Cross-Default...........................................  71
              -------------
         (f)  Insolvency; Voluntary Proceedings.......................  71
              ---------------------------------
         (g)  Involuntary Proceedings.................................  71
              -----------------------
         (h)  ERISA...................................................  72
              -----
   8.02  Remedies.....................................................  72
         --------
   8.03  Rights Not Exclusive.........................................  72
         --------------------

                                  ARTICLE IX

                                  THE AGENTS..........................  73
                                  ----------
   9.01  Appointment and Authorization................................  73
         -----------------------------
   9.02  Delegation of Duties.........................................  73
         --------------------
   9.03  Liability of Agent...........................................  73
         ------------------
   9.04  Reliance by the Agents.......................................  74
         ----------------------
   9.05  Notice of Default............................................  74
         -----------------
   9.06  Credit Decision..............................................  75
         ---------------
   9.07  Indemnification of Agent.....................................  75
         ------------------------
   9.08  Agents in Individual Capacity................................  76
         -----------------------------
   9.09  Successor Agent..............................................  76
         ---------------
   9.10  Withholding Tax..............................................  77
         ---------------
   9.11  Collateral Matters...........................................  79
         ------------------
   9.12  Co-Agent.....................................................  80
         --------

                                   ARTICLE X

                                 MISCELLANEOUS........................  80
                                 -------------
</TABLE>

                                      iii
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Section                                                               Page
<S>                                                                   <C>


   10.01  Amendments and Waivers......................................  80
          ----------------------
   10.02  Notices.....................................................  81
          -------
   10.03  No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies..............................  82
          ------------------------------
   10.04  Costs and Expenses..........................................  82
          ------------------
   10.05  Borrower Indemnification....................................  83
          ------------------------
   10.06  Payments Set Aside..........................................  83
          ------------------
   10.07  Successors and Assigns......................................  84
          ----------------------
   10.08  Assignments, Participations, etc............................  84
          ---------------------------------
   10.09  Confidentiality.............................................  86
          ---------------
   10.10  Set-off.....................................................  87
          -------
   10.11  Notification of Addresses, Lending Offices, Etc.............  87
          ------------------------------------------------
   10.12  Counterparts................................................  88
          ------------
   10.13  Severability................................................  88
          ------------
   10.14  No Third Parties Benefited..................................  88
          --------------------------
   10.15  Governing Law and Jurisdiction; Language....................  88
          ----------------------------------------
   10.16  Waiver of Jury Trial........................................  89
          --------------------
   10.17  Judgment....................................................  89
          --------
   10.18  Entire Agreement............................................  90
          ----------------
</TABLE>

                                       iv
<PAGE>
 
                             McKesson Corporation
                 Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc.
              List of Schedules and Exhibits to Credit Agreement

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
  SCHEDULES
  <S>                 <C> 
  Schedule 2.01       Commitments and Canadian Commitments
  Schedule 5.11       Subsidiaries and Liens Securing Indebtedness for Borrowed
                      Money
  Schedule 10.02      Lending Offices; Addresses for Notices
<CAPTION> 
  EXHIBITS
  <S>            <C> 
  Exhibit A      Form of Notice of Borrowing
  Exhibit B      Form of Notice of Conversion/Continuation
  Exhibit C      Form of Compliance Certificate
  Exhibit D-1    Form of Legal Opinion of Company's Counsel
  Exhibit D-2    Form of Legal Opinion of Company's Canadian Counsel
  Exhibit D-3    Form of Legal Opinion re Collateral
  Exhibit E      Form of Assignment and Acceptance
  Exhibit F-1    Form of Company Promissory Note (Tranche A)
  Exhibit F-2    Form of Company Promissory Note (Tranche B)
  Exhibit F-3    Form of Medis Promissory Note (Tranche B)
  Exhibit G      Form of Drawing Notice
  Exhibit H-1    Form of Draft
  Exhibit H-2    Form of Acceptance
  Exhibit I      Form of Pledge Agreement
  Exhibit J      Form of Custodial Agreement Acknowledgement
  Exhibit K      Notice of Election of Projected Market Value
  Exhibit L      Form of Guaranty
  Exhibit M      Form of Independent Auditor's Letter
</TABLE> 

                                       v
<PAGE>
 
                               CREDIT AGREEMENT
                               ----------------


     This CREDIT AGREEMENT is entered into as of March 31, 1995, among McKesson
Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), Medis Health and
                                          -------                    
Pharmaceutical Services Inc., an Ontario corporation and indirect wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company ("Medis"), the several financial institutions from
                            -----                                           
time to time party to this Agreement (collectively, the "Banks"; individually, a
                                                         -----                  
"Bank"), Bank of America Canada, as administrative agent with respect to Tranche
 ----                                                                           
B Canadian Loans and the Bankers' Acceptance Facility (as hereinafter defined),
Chemical Bank, as co-agent for the Banks, and Bank of America National Trust and
Savings Association, as agent for the Banks.

     WHEREAS, the Tranche A Banks (as hereinafter defined) have agreed to make
available to the Company a revolving credit facility upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

     WHEREAS, the Tranche B Banks (as hereinafter defined) have agreed to make
available to the Company and Medis a revolving credit facility and to Medis the
Bankers' Acceptance Facility upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

     WHEREAS, Company has agreed to guaranty the obligations of Medis under such
revolving credit facility and the Bankers' Acceptance Facility;

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements, provisions and
covenants contained herein, the parties agree as follows:


                                   ARTICLE I

                                  DEFINITIONS
                                  -----------

     1.01  Certain Defined Terms .  As used in this Agreement and the other Loan
           ----------------------                                               
Documents, the following terms have the following meanings:

          "Acceptance Usage" means, as at any date of determination, the
           ----------------                                             
     aggregate Face Amount of all completed Bankers' Acceptances which have not
     been repaid by Medis or the Company whether or not due and whether or not
     held by a Tranche B Bank.  For purposes of this definition, any Bankers'
     Acceptance that has been prepaid in full shall not be deemed to be
     outstanding and all Bankers' Acceptances shall be valued in Dollar
     Equivalents as of the applicable Computation Date.

          "Affiliate" means, as to any Person, any other Person which, directly
           ---------                                                           
     or indirectly, is in control of, is 

                                       1
<PAGE>
 
     controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person. A Person shall
     be deemed to control another Person if the controlling Person possesses,
     directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of the
     management and policies of the other Person, whether through the ownership
     of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise.

          "Affiliate Bank" means (i) with respect to any Tranche B Bank which is
           --------------                                                       
     a Tranche B Domestic Bank but is not a Tranche B Canadian Bank, the
     affiliate of such Tranche B Domestic Bank which is serving as a Tranche B
     Canadian Bank and (ii) with respect to any Tranche B Bank which is a
     Tranche B Canadian Bank but is not a Tranche B Domestic Bank, the affiliate
     of such Tranche B Canadian Bank which is serving as a Tranche B Domestic
     Bank.  The Affiliate Bank of each Tranche B Bank as of the Closing Date is
     set forth on Schedule 2.01 hereof.

          "Agent" means BofA in its capacity as agent for the Banks hereunder,
           -----                                                              
     and any successor agent arising under Section 9.09.

          "Agent-Related Persons" means the Agent and the Canadian
           ---------------------                                  
     Administrative Agent together with their respective Affiliates (including,
     in the case of BofA, the Arranger), and the officers, directors, employees,
     agents and attorneys-in-fact of such Persons and Affiliates.

          "Agents" means the Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent.
           ------                                                        

          "Agent's Payment Office" means the address for payments set forth on
           ----------------------                                             
     Schedule 10.02 in relation to the Agent, or such other address as the Agent
     --------------                                                             
     may from time to time specify.

          "Agreement" means this Credit Agreement.
           ---------                              

          "Applicable Agent" shall mean the Agent in the case of Tranche A Loans
           ----------------                                                     
     and Tranche B Domestic Loans and the Canadian Administrative Agent in the
     case of Tranche B Canadian Loans and in connection with the Bankers'
     Acceptance Facility.

          "Applicable Currency" means, as to any particular payment or Loan,
           -------------------                                              
     Dollars in the case of Tranche A Loans and Tranche B Domestic Loans and
     Canadian Dollars in the case of Tranche B Canadian Loans and the Bankers'
     Acceptance Facility.

          "Applicable Facility Fee Margin" means, on any date (subject to
           ------------------------------                                
     clauses (b) through (d) of the definition of "Applicable Rating Level"),
     the applicable margin set forth below based on the Applicable Rating Level
     on such date:

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                     Applicable
                    Rating Level               Margin
                    ------------               ------
                    <S>                        <C> 
                    Level I                    0.0800%
                    Level II                   0.1350%
                    Level III                  0.2000%
</TABLE> 

          "Applicable Margin" means, on any date and with respect to each Loan
           -----------------                                                  
or Bankers' Acceptance (subject to clauses (b) through (d) of the definition of
"Applicable Rating Level"), the applicable margin set forth below based on the
Type of Loan or, in the case of Bankers' Acceptances, under the heading Bankers'
Acceptances and the Applicable Rating Level on such date:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
 Applicable       Offshore Rate   CD Rate   Bankers'
Rating Level          Loans        Loans    Acceptances
- ------------      -------------   -------   -----------
<S>               <C>             <C>       <C>
 
Level I           0.1700%         0.2950%   0.1700%
Level II          0.2250%         0.3500%   0.2250%
Level III         0.3250%         0.4500%   0.3250%
</TABLE>

          "Applicable Rating Level" shall mean and be determined by the ratings
           -----------------------                                             
issued from time to time by S&P and Moody's (or S&P or Moody's, if ratings shall
be available from only one of such Rating Agencies) in respect of the Company's
long-term, senior unsecured debt in accordance with the following:

<TABLE>             
<CAPTION>           
 
Rating Level                          S&P                          Moody's             Duff & Phelps
- ------------                          ---                          -------             -------------
<S>             <C>                             <C>                                <C>            
                                                                                                    
Level I                                 A                               A2                         A
                    or More Favorable                    or More Favorable         or More Favorable
                                                                                                    
Level II                              BBB                             Baa2                       BBB
                        or More Favorable                or More Favorable         or More Favorable
                but Less Favorable than A       but Less Favorable than A2           but less than A
                                                                                                    
Level III                    BBB- or Less                     Baa3 or Less              BBB- or Less
                                Favorable                        Favorable                 Favorable
                             or Not Rated                     or Not Rated              or Not Rated 
</TABLE>

     For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if ratings are available from both S&P
and Moody's, and the ratings available from such Rating Agencies do not
correspond to the same Rating Level, the Rating Level corresponding to the lower
rating shall be the Applicable Rating Level unless the higher rating is
consistent with the Rating Level of Duff & Phelps as set forth above; (b) if
determinative ratings shall change (other than as a result of a change in the
rating system used by any applicable Rating Agency) such that a change in the
Applicable Rating Level would result, such change shall effect a change in the
Applicable Rating Level as of the day on which the Agent receives notice of such
change (such day, a "Change Day"), and any change in the Applicable Margin shall
                     ----------           
take effect commencing on such 

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
     Change Day and ending on the date immediately preceding the next Change
     Day; (c) if the rating system of any of the Rating Agencies shall change
     prior to the date all obligations hereunder have been paid and the
     Commitments cancelled, the Company and the Majority Banks shall negotiate
     in good faith to amend the references to specific ratings in this
     definition to reflect such changed rating system, and pending such
     amendment, if no Applicable Rating Level is otherwise determinable based
     upon the foregoing, the most recent Applicable Rating Level in effect shall
     apply; (d) if the Company shall fail to give notice to the Agent of any
     change in rating by any Rating Agency in respect of the Company's long-
     term, senior unsecured debt on the date required by Section 6.10, the
     Applicable Rating Level shall be deemed to be Level III for the period from
     the date such notice was required to be delivered to the date such notice
     is received by the Agent; and (e) subject to subsection 2.08(c), upon the
     occurrence of and during the existence of an Event of Default, the
     Applicable Rating Level shall be deemed to be Level III.

          "Approved Custodian" means BofA, in its capacity as the initial
           ------------------                                            
     custodian under the Custodial Agreement and its successors and assigns, any
     Bank (or any Affiliate of a Bank) and any other Persons that may be
     approved in writing as additional or successor custodians by the Company,
     the Agent and Majority Banks.

          "Arranger" means BA Securities, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
           --------                                                    

          "Assessment Rate" has the meaning specified in the definition of "CD
           ---------------                                                    
     Rate."

          "Assignee" has the meaning specified in subsection 10.08(a).
           --------                                                   

          "Attorney Costs" means and includes all reasonable fees and
           --------------                                            
     disbursements of any law firm or other external counsel, the allocated
     reasonable cost of internal legal services and all reasonable disbursements
     of internal counsel; provided that no fees or disbursements shall qualify
                          --------                                            
     as Attorney Costs unless written evidence substantiating such fees and
     disbursements is available to the Company upon request.

          "Bank" has the meaning specified in the introductory clause hereto.
           ----                                                              

          "Bankers' Acceptance" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section
           -------------------                                                  
     2.17(a).

          "Bankers' Acceptance Facility" means the facility established by
           ----------------------------                                   
     Section 2.17.

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
          "Bankruptcy Code" means the Federal Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 (11
           ---------------                                                     
     U.S.C. (S)101, et seq.).
                    -------  

          "Base Rate" means, for any day, the higher of:  (a)  0.50% per annum
           ---------                                                          
     above the Federal Funds Rate in effect for that day; and (b) the rate of
     interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by
     BofA in San Francisco, California, as its "reference rate."  (The
     "reference rate" is a rate set by BofA based upon various factors including
     BofA's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other
     factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may
     be priced at, above, or below such announced rate.)  Any change in the
     reference rate announced by BofA shall take effect at the opening of
     business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.

          "Base Rate Loan" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base
           --------------                                                    
     Rate.

          "BofA" means Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, a
           ----                                                                 
     national banking association.

          "BofA Canada" means Bank of America Canada.
           -----------                               

          "Borrower" or "Borrowers" means the Company and/or Medis.
           --------      ---------                                 

          "Borrowing" means a borrowing hereunder consisting of Loans of the
           ---------                                                        
     same Tranche and Type made to the same Borrower on the same day by the
     Banks under Article II, and, other than in the case of Base Rate Loans,
     having the same Interest Period.

          "Borrowing Date" means any date on which a Borrowing occurs under
           --------------                                                  
     Section 2.03.

          "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other
           ------------                                                      
     day on which commercial banks in New York City, Chicago or San Francisco
     or, in the case of Tranche B Canadian Loans or in connection with the
     Bankers' Acceptance Facility, Toronto or Montreal are authorized or
     required by law to close and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any
     Offshore Rate Loan, means such a day on which dealings in the Applicable
     Currency are carried on in the applicable offshore interbank market.

          "Canadian Administrative Agent" means BofA Canada in its capacity as
           -----------------------------                                      
     the Canadian administrative agent for the Tranche B Canadian Banks, and any
     successor arising under Section 9.09.

          "Canadian Administrative Agent's Payment Office" means the address for
           ----------------------------------------------                       
     payments set forth on Schedule 10.02 in 

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
     relation to the Canadian Administrative Agent, or such other address as the
     Canadian Administrative Agent may from time to time specify.

          "Canadian Dollars" or "Cdn.$" means lawful money of Canada.
           ----------------      -----                               

          "Canadian Prime Rate" means, for any day, with respect to any Tranche
           -------------------                                                 
     B Canadian Loan, the higher of (a) the rate announced by the Canadian
     Administrative Agent from time to time as its prime lending rate, as in
     effect from time to time, and (b) a rate equal to the effective rate that a
     Bankers' Acceptance would bear if made on such day in accordance with
     Section 2.17.  As to any loan, the Canadian Prime Rate is a reference rate
     and does not necessarily represent the lowest or best rate actually charged
     to any customer.  The Canadian Administrative Agent may make commercial
     loans or other loans at rates of interest at, above or below the Canadian
     Prime Rate.  Any change in the reference rate announced by the Canadian
     Administrative Agent shall take effect at the opening of business on the
     day specified in the announcement of such change.

          "Canadian Prime Rate Loans" means Tranche B Canadian Loans bearing
           -------------------------                                        
     interest at rates determined by reference to the Canadian Prime Rate.

          "Canadian Spot Rate" means the rate quoted by BofA as the spot rate
           ------------------                                                
     for the purchase by BofA of such currency with another currency through its
     FX Trading Office at approximately 8:00 a.m. (San Francisco time) on the
     date two Business Days prior to the date as of which the foreign exchange
     computation is made.

          "Capital Adequacy Regulation" means any guideline, request or
           ---------------------------                                 
     directive of any central bank or other Governmental Authority, or any other
     law, rule or regulation, whether or not having the force of law, in each
     case, regarding capital adequacy of any bank or of any corporation
     controlling a bank.

          "CD Rate" means, for any Interest Period with respect to CD Rate Loans
           -------                                                              
     comprising part of the same Borrowing, the rate of interest (rounded upward
     to the next 1/100th of 1%) determined as follows:

          CD Rate = Certificate of Deposit Rate  + Assessment
                    ---------------------------              
                     1.00 - Reserve Percentage     Rate

          Where:

               "Assessment Rate" means, for any day of such Interest Period, the
                ---------------                                                 
          rate determined by the Agent as equal to the annual assessment rate in
          effect on such 

                                       6
<PAGE>
 
          day payable to the FDIC by a member of the Bank Insurance Fund that is
          classified as adequately capitalized and within supervisory subgroup
          "A" (or a comparable successor assessment risk classification within
          the meaning of 12 C.F.R. (S)327.3) for insuring time deposits at
          offices of such member in the United States; or, in the event that the
          FDIC shall at any time hereafter cease to assess time deposits based
          upon such classifications or successor classifications, equal to the
          maximum annual assessment rate in effect on such day that is payable
          to the FDIC by commercial banks (whether or not applicable to any
          particular Bank) for insuring time deposits at offices of such banks
          in the United States.

               "Certificate of Deposit Rate" means the rate of interest per
                ---------------------------                                
          annum determined by the Agent to be the arithmetic mean (rounded
          upward to the next 1/100th of 1%) of the rates notified to the Agent
          by each Reference Bank as the rates of interest bid by two or more
          certificate of deposit dealers of recognized standing selected by such
          Reference Bank for the purchase at face value of dollar certificates
          of deposit issued by major United States banks, for a maturity
          comparable to such Interest Period and in the approximate amount of
          the CD Rate Loan to be made by such Reference Bank, at the time
          selected by such Reference Bank on the first day of such Interest
          Period.

               "Reserve Percentage" means, for any day of such Interest Period,
                ------------------                                             
          the maximum reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, rounded upward
          to the next 1/100th of 1%), as determined by the Agent, in effect on
          such day (including any ordinary, marginal, emergency, supplemental,
          special and other reserve percentages), prescribed by the FRB for
          determining the maximum reserves to be maintained by member banks of
          the Federal Reserve System with deposits exceeding $1,000,000,000 for
          new non-personal time deposits for a period comparable to such
          Interest Period and in an amount of $100,000 or more.

          The CD Rate shall be adjusted, as to all CD Rate Loans then
     outstanding, automatically as of the effective date of any change in the
     Assessment Rate or the Reserve Percentage.

          "CD Rate Loan" means a Loan that bears interest based on the CD Rate.
           ------------                                                        

          "Certificate of Deposit Rate" has the meaning specified in the
           ---------------------------                                  
     definition of "CD Rate."
                    -------  

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
          "Change Day" has the meaning specified in the definition of
           ----------                                                
     "Applicable Rating Level."

          "Closing Date" means the date on which all conditions precedent set
           ------------                                                      
     forth in Section 4.01 are satisfied or waived by all Banks (or, in the case
     of subsection 4.01(f), waived by the Person entitled to receive such
     payment).

          "Co-Agent" means Chemical Bank in its capacity as co-agent for the
           --------                                                         
     Banks hereunder.

          "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and regulations
           ----                                                          
     promulgated thereunder.

          "Collateral" means all property and interests in property and proceeds
           ----------                                                           
     thereof now owned or hereafter acquired by the Company and its Subsidiaries
     that becomes subject to a Lien in favor of the Banks, or the Agent on
     behalf of the Banks, whether under this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement or
     any other Collateral Document; which Collateral shall not include any
     deposit in a Tranche B Canadian Bank.

          "Collateral Documents" means, collectively, (a) the Pledge Agreement,
           --------------------                                                
     the Custodial Agreement (other than provisions that do not relate to
     Collateral or any other Collateral Document), the Custodial Agreement
     Acknowledgement, and all other security agreements and other similar
     agreements between the Company and the Banks or the Agent for its benefit
     and the benefit of the Banks now or hereafter delivered to the Banks or the
     Agent pursuant to or in connection with the transactions contemplated
     hereby, and all financing statements (or comparable documents now or
     hereafter filed in accordance with the Uniform Commercial Code or
     comparable law) against the Company as debtor in favor of the Banks or the
     Agent for its benefit and the benefit of the Banks as secured party, and
     (b) any amendments, supplements, modifications, renewals, replacements,
     consolidations, substitutions and extensions of any of the foregoing.

          "Collateral Period" means (a) the period from the Closing Date to June
           -----------------                                                    
     30, 1995 and (b) any calendar quarter commencing thereafter.

          "Collateralize" means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the
           -------------                                                    
     Agent, for the benefit of the Agents and the Banks, Collateral pursuant to
     the Pledge Agreement.

          "Commitment" means, as of any date of determination as to each Bank,
           ----------                                                         
     the aggregate amount of the Tranche A Commitment of such Bank and, if
     applicable, the Tranche B Commitment of such Bank in effect on such date,
     and 

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
     "Commitments" means the aggregate amount of the Commitments for each
      -----------                                                        
     Bank in effect on such date.

          "Company" has the meaning specified in the introductory clause hereto.
           -------                                                              

          "Compliance Certificate" means a certificate substantially in the form
           ----------------------                                               
     of Exhibit C.

          "Computation Date" has the meaning specified in subsection 2.15(a).
           ----------------                                                  

          "Contingent Obligation" means, as to any Person, any direct or
           ---------------------                                        
     indirect liability of that Person, whether or not contingent, with or
     without recourse, (a) with respect to any Indebtedness, lease, dividend,
     letter of credit or other obligation (the "primary obligations") of another
     Person (the "primary obligor"), including any obligation of that Person (i)
     to purchase, repurchase or otherwise acquire such primary obligations or
     any security therefor, (ii) to advance or provide funds for the payment or
     discharge of any such primary obligation, or to maintain working capital or
     equity capital of the primary obligor or otherwise to maintain the net
     worth or solvency or any balance sheet item, level of income or financial
     condition of the primary obligor, (iii) to purchase property, securities or
     services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of any such
     primary obligation of the ability of the primary obligor to make payment of
     such primary obligation, or (iv) otherwise to assure or hold harmless the
     holder of any such primary obligation against loss in respect thereof
     (each, a "Guaranty Obligation"); (b) with respect to any Surety Instrument
               -------------------                                             
     issued for the account of that Person or as to which that Person is
     otherwise liable for reimbursement of drawings or payments; (c) to purchase
     any materials, supplies or other property from, or to obtain the services
     of, another Person if the relevant contract or other related document or
     obligation requires that payment for such materials, supplies or other
     property, or for such services, shall be made regardless of whether
     delivery of such materials, supplies or other property is ever made or
     tendered, or such services are ever performed or tendered, or (d) in
     respect of any Swap Contract.  The amount of any Contingent Obligation
     shall, in the case of Guaranty Obligations, be deemed equal to the stated
     or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such
     Guaranty Obligation is made or, if not stated or if indeterminable, the
     maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof, and in the
     case of other Contingent Obligations, shall be equal to the maximum
     reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof.

                                       9
<PAGE>
 
          "Contractual Obligation" means, as to any Person, any provision of any
           ----------------------                                               
     security issued by such Person or of any agreement, undertaking, contract,
     indenture, mortgage, deed of trust or other instrument, document or
     agreement to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its
     property is bound.

          "Conversion/Continuation Date" means any date on which, under Section
           ----------------------------                                        
     2.04, (i) the Company or Medis, as the case may be, converts Loans of one
     Type to another Type, or (ii) the Company or Medis, as the case may be,
     continues as Loans of the same Type, but with a new Interest Period, Loans
     having Interest Periods expiring on such date.

          "Custodial Agreement" means the Custody Agreement dated as of November
           -------------------                                                  
     14, 1994 between the Company and BofA in its capacity as Custodian and any
     other custodial agreement with an Approved Custodian, substantially in the
     form of such Custody Agreement or in such other form as may be approved by
     Majority Banks, which may be in effect from time to time.

          "Custodial Agreement Acknowledgement" means a Custodial Agreement
           -----------------------------------                             
     Acknowledgement substantially in the form of Exhibit J and any other
     custodial agreement acknowledgement among the Company, the Agent and the
     Custodian substantially in the form of Exhibit J or in such other form as
     may be approved by Majority Banks, which may be in effect from time to
     time.

          "Custodian" means BofA, in its capacity as the initial Custodian under
           ---------                                                            
     the Custodial Agreement and Custodial Agreement Acknowledgement and any
     other Approved Custodian under the Custodial Agreement and Custodial
     Agreement Acknowledgement (including any successor Custodial Agreement and
     Custodial Agreement Acknowledgement) appointed in accordance with the terms
     hereof and the Pledge Agreement.  The parties hereto acknowledge that there
     may be more than one Custodian from time to time.

          "Default" means any event or circumstance which, with the giving of
           -------                                                           
     notice, the lapse of time, or both, would (if not cured or otherwise
     remedied during such time) constitute an Event of Default.

          "Dollar Equivalent" means, at any time, (a) as to any amount
           -----------------                                          
     denominated in Dollars, the amount thereof at such time, and (b) as to any
     amount denominated in Canadian Dollars, the equivalent amount in Dollars as
     determined by the Agent at such time on the basis of the Canadian Spot Rate
     for the purchase of Dollars with Canadian Dollars on the most recent
     Computation Date provided for in subsection 2.15(a).

                                       10
<PAGE>
 
          "Dollars", "dollars" and "$" each mean lawful money of the United
           -------    -------       -                                      
     States.
 
          "Draft" means, at any time, a blank bill of exchange, within the
           -----                                                          
     meaning of the Bills of Exchange Act (Canada), in substantially the form of
     Exhibit H-1 annexed hereto, issued by Medis to be accepted by a Tranche B
     Canadian Bank (which upon such acceptance will be a Bankers' Acceptance)
     and bearing such distinguishing letters and numbers as such Tranche B
     Canadian Bank may determine, but which at such time, except as otherwise
     provided herein, has not been completed or accepted by a Tranche B Canadian
     Bank.

          "Drawing" means an acceptance of completed Drafts by a Tranche B Bank
           -------                                                             
     or by any other Person pursuant to Section 2.17.

          "Drawing Date" means any Business Day fixed pursuant to subsection
           ------------                                                     
     2.17(b) for a Drawing.

          "Drawing Fee" means, with respect to the Drafts issued by Medis
           -----------                                                   
     hereunder and accepted as provided herein on any Drawing Date, an amount
     equal to the Drawing Fee Rate multiplied by the aggregate Face Amount of
     such Drafts, calculated, in each case, on the basis of the term to maturity
     of such Draft and a year of 365 days (rounded to the nearest whole cent,
     with one-half of one cent being rounded up).

          "Drawing Fee Rate" means, in calculating the Drawing Fee for any
           ----------------                                               
     Draft, (i) with respect to any portion of the Face Amount of such Draft
     that is less than or equal to the Market Value of the Qualifying Collateral
     allocated to such Face Amount in accordance with the last sentence of
     Section 2.08(b), if any, a rate per annum equal to 0.1250% and (ii) with
     respect to any portion of the Face Amount of such Draft that exceeds the
     Market Value of the Qualifying Collateral allocated to such Face Amount in
     accordance with the last sentence of Section 2.08(b), if any, a rate per
     annum equal to the Applicable Margin.

          "Drawing Notice" has the meaning assigned to that term in subsection
           --------------                                                     
     2.17(b)(1).

          "Drawing Purchase Price" means, in respect of Drafts to be accepted by
           ----------------------                                               
     a Tranche B Canadian Bank or any other Person, the difference between (i)
     the result (rounded to the nearest whole cent, with one-half of one cent
     being rounded up) obtained by dividing the aggregate Face Amount of such
     Drafts by the sum of one plus the product of (x) the Effective Discount
     Rate multiplied by (y) a fraction the numerator of which is the term of
     maturity of such Drafts and the denominator of which is 365; and (ii) the
     applicable Drawing Fee.

                                       11
<PAGE>
 
          "Duff & Phelps" means Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co. and any
           -------------                                               
     successor thereto that is a nationally recognized rating agency.

          "Effective Discount Rate" means, in respect of any Bankers'
           -----------------------                                   
     Acceptances to be purchased by a Tranche B Canadian Bank or any other
     Person pursuant hereto, the discount rate at which the Canadian
     Administrative Agent would purchase, at 10:00 a.m. (Toronto time) on the
     relevant Drawing Date, its own Bankers' Acceptances having an aggregate
     Face Amount equal to and with a term to maturity the same as the Bankers'
     Acceptances to be acquired by such Tranche B Bank or other Person on such
     Drawing Date.

          "Eligible Assignee" means (i) a commercial bank organized under the
           -----------------                                                 
     laws of the United States, or any state thereof, and having a combined
     capital and surplus of at least $100,000,000; (ii) a commercial bank
     organized under the laws of any other country which is a member of the
     OECD, or a political subdivision of any such country, and having a combined
     capital and surplus of at least $100,000,000, provided that such bank is
     acting through a branch or agency located in the United States or Canada;
     and (iii) a Person that is primarily engaged in the business of commercial
     banking and that is (A) a Subsidiary of a Bank, (B) a Subsidiary of a
     Person of which a Bank is a Subsidiary, or (C) a Person of which a Bank is
     a Subsidiary; provided that an Eligible Assignee in respect of the Tranche
     B Canadian Loans shall include only a Schedule I Bank, a Schedule II Bank
     or another Person who is a resident of Canada or otherwise not subject to
     withholding tax for purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada) and the
     regulations promulgated thereunder.

          "Employee Benefit Plan" means any "employee benefit plan" as defined
           ---------------------                                              
     in Section 3(3) of ERISA which is, or was at any time, maintained or
     contributed to by the Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates.

          "Environmental Laws" means all federal, state, provincial or local
           ------------------                                               
     laws, statutes, common law duties, rules, regulations, ordinances and
     codes, together with all administrative orders, directed duties, requests,
     licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any
     Governmental Authorities, in each case relating to environmental, health,
     safety and land use matters.

          "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and
           -----                                                                
     regulations promulgated thereunder.

          "ERISA Affiliate", as applied to any Person, means (i) any corporation
           ---------------                                                      
     which is, or was at any time, a member of a controlled group of
     corporations within the meaning of 

                                       12
<PAGE>
 
     Section 414(b) of the Code of which that Person is, or was at any time, a
     member; (ii) any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) which is,
     or was at any time, a member of a group of trades or businesses under
     common control within the meaning of Section 414(c) of the Code of which
     that Person is, or was at any time, a member; and (iii) any member of an
     affiliated service group within the meaning of Section 414(m) or (o) of the
     Code of which that Person, any corporation described in clause (i) above or
     any trade or business described in clause (ii) above is, or was at any
     time, a member; provided that an ERISA Affiliate shall not include a Person
     that was a member, as referenced in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above if the
     Company or any of its Subsidiaries would not have any liability in
     connection with an ERISA Event with respect to such Person.

          "ERISA Event" means (i) a "reportable event" within the meaning of
           -----------                                                      
     Section 4043 of ERISA and the regulations issued thereunder with respect to
     any Pension Plan (excluding those for which the provision for 30-day notice
     to the PBGC has been waived by regulation); (ii) the failure to meet the
     minimum funding standard of Section 412 of the Code with respect to any
     Pension Plan (whether or not waived in accordance with Section 412(d) of
     the Code) or the failure to make by its due date a required installment
     under Section 412(m) of the Code with respect to any Pension Plan or the
     failure to make any required contribution to a Multiemployer Plan; (iii)
     the provision by the administrator of any Pension Plan pursuant to Section
     4041(a)(2) of ERISA of a notice of intent to terminate such plan in a
     distress termination described in Section 4041(c) of ERISA; (iv) the
     withdrawal by the Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates from any Pension
     Plan with two or more contributing sponsors or the termination of any such
     Pension Plan resulting in liability pursuant to Sections 4063 or 4064 of
     ERISA; (v) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate any
     Pension Plan, or the occurrence of any event or condition which might
     constitute grounds under ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment
     of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan; (vi) the imposition of
     liability on the Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates pursuant to Section
     4062(e) or 4069 of ERISA or by reason of the application of Section 4212(c)
     of ERISA; (vii) the withdrawal by the Company or any of its ERISA
     Affiliates in a complete or partial withdrawal (within the meaning of
     Sections 4203 and 4205 of ERISA) from any Multiemployer Plan if there is
     any potential liability therefor, or the receipt by the Company or any of
     its ERISA Affiliates of notice from any Multiemployer Plan that it is in
     reorganization or insolvency pursuant to Section 4241 or 4245 of ERISA, or
     that it intends to terminate or has terminated under Section 4041A or 4042
     of ERISA; (viii) the occurrence of an act or omission which could give rise
     to 

                                       13
<PAGE>
 
     the imposition on the Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates of fines,
     penalties, taxes or related charges under Chapter 43 of the Code or under
     Section 409 or 502(c), (i) or (l) or 4071 of ERISA in respect of any
     Employee Benefit Plan; (ix) the assertion of a material claim (other than
     routine claims for benefits) against any Employee Benefit Plan other than a
     Multiemployer Plan or the assets thereof, or against the Company or any of
     its ERISA Affiliates in connection with any such Employee Benefit Plan; (x)
     receipt from the Internal Revenue Service of notice of the failure of any
     Pension Plan (or any other Employee Benefit Plan intended to be qualified
     under Section 401(a) of the Code) to qualify under Section 401(a) of the
     Code, or the failure of any trust forming part of any Pension Plan to
     qualify for exemption from taxation under Section 501(a) of the Code; or
     (xi) the imposition of a Lien pursuant to Section 401(a)(29) or 412(n) of
     the Code or pursuant to ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan.

          "Eurodollar Reserve Percentage" has the meaning specified in the
           -----------------------------                                  
     definition of "Offshore Rate."

          "Event of Default" means any of the events or circumstances specified
           ----------------                                                    
     in Section 8.01.

          "Exchange Act" means the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, and
           ------------                                                    
     regulations promulgated thereunder.

          "Exposure" means (a) (i) prior to the termination of the Tranche A
           --------                                                         
     Commitment, such Bank's Tranche A Commitment and (ii) after the termination
     of the Tranche A Commitments, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of
     the Tranche A Loans made by such Bank plus (b) (i) prior to the termination
     of the Tranche B Commitment, such Bank's Tranche B Commitment and (ii)
     after the termination of the Tranche B Commitments, the Total Utilization
     of Tranche B Commitments for such Bank.

          "Face Amount" means, in respect of a Draft or a Bankers' Acceptance,
           -----------                                                        
     as the case may be, the amount payable to the holder thereof on its
     maturity.

          "FDIC" means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and any
           ----                                                          
     Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.

          "Federal Funds Rate" means, for any day, the rate set forth in the
           ------------------                                               
     weekly statistical release designated as H.15(519), or any successor
     publication, published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (including
     any such successor, "H.15(519)") on the preceding Business Day opposite the
     caption "Federal Funds (Effective)"; or, if for any relevant day such rate
     is not so published on any such preceding Business Day, the rate for such
     day will be 

                                       14
<PAGE>
 
     the arithmetic mean as determined by the Agent of the rates for the last
     transaction in overnight Federal funds arranged prior to 9:00 a.m. (New
     York City time) on that day by each of three leading brokers of Federal
     funds transactions in New York City selected by the Agent.

          "Fee Letter" has the meaning specified in subsection 2.09(a).
           ----------                                                  

          "FRB" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and
           ---                                                                 
     any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.

          "FX Trading Office" means the Foreign Exchange Trading Center #5193,
           -----------------                                                  
     San Francisco, California, of BofA, or such other of BofA's offices as BofA
     may designate from time to time or, if BofA is no longer the Agent, the
     offices of Agent as Agent may designate from time to time.

          "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth from
           ----                                                               
     time to time in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting
     Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
     and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards
     Board (or agencies with similar functions of comparable stature and
     authority within the U.S. accounting profession), which are applicable to
     the circumstances as of the date of determination; provided that with
     respect to Subsidiaries not organized in the United States, "GAAP" means
     generally accepted accounting principles in accordance with agencies with
     similar function of comparable stature and authority within the accounting
     profession in the relevant jurisdiction.

          "Governmental Authority" means any nation or government, any state or
           ----------------------                                              
     other political subdivision thereof, any central bank (or similar monetary
     or regulatory authority) thereof, any entity exercising executive,
     legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or
     pertaining to government, and any corporation or other entity owned or
     controlled, through stock or capital ownership or otherwise, by any of the
     foregoing.

          "Guaranty" means the Guaranty substantially in the form of Exhibit L.
           --------                                                            

          "Guaranty Obligation" has the meaning specified in the definition of
           -------------------                                                
     "Contingent Obligation".

          "Indebtedness" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all
           ------------                                                   
     indebtedness for borrowed money; (b) all obligations issued, undertaken or
     assumed as the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than

                                       15
<PAGE>
 
     trade payables entered into in the ordinary course of business on ordinary
     terms); (c) all non-contingent reimbursement or payment obligations with
     respect to Surety Instruments; provided that this clause (c) shall not
     include up to $10,000,000 of non-contingent reimbursement or payment
     obligations with respect to Surety Instruments that do not support
     indebtedness for borrowed money to the extent that no default has occurred
     with respect to the payment thereof; (d) all obligations evidenced by
     notes, bonds, debentures or similar instruments, including obligations so
     evidenced incurred in connection with the acquisition of property, assets
     or businesses; (e) all indebtedness created or arising under any
     conditional sale or other title retention agreement, or incurred as
     financing, in either case with respect to property acquired by the Person
     (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or bank under such
     agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of
     such property); (f) all obligations with respect to capital leases; (g) all
     net obligations with respect to Swap Contracts; and (h) all indebtedness
     referred to in clauses (a) through (g) above secured by (or for which the
     holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise,
     to be secured by) any Lien upon or in property (including accounts and
     contracts rights) owned by such Person, even though such Person has not
     assumed or become liable for the payment of such Indebtedness.

          "Indemnified Liabilities" has the meaning specified in Section 10.05.
           -----------------------                                             

          "Indemnified Person" has the meaning specified in Section 10.05.
           ------------------                                             

          "Independent Auditor" has the meaning specified in subsection 6.01(a).
           -------------------                                                  

          "Independent Auditor's Letter" means a letter substantially in the
           ----------------------------                                     
     form of Exhibit M.

          "Ineligible Securities" has the meaning specified in subsection
           ---------------------                                         
     7.03(b).

          "Insolvency Proceeding" means (a) any case, action or proceeding
           ---------------------                                          
     before any court or other Governmental Authority relating to bankruptcy,
     reorganization, insolvency, liquidation, receivership, dissolution,
     winding-up or relief of debtors, or (b) any general assignment for the
     benefit of creditors, composition, marshalling of assets for creditors, or
     other similar arrangement in respect of its creditors generally or any
     substantial portion of its creditors; undertaken under U.S. Federal, state
     or foreign law, including the Bankruptcy Code.

                                       16
<PAGE>
 
          "Interest Payment Date" means, as to any Loan other than a Base Rate
           ---------------------                                              
     Loan or Canadian Prime Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period
     applicable to such Loan and, as to any Base Rate Loan or Canadian Prime
     Rate Loan, the last Business Day of each calendar quarter and each date
     such Loan is converted into another Type of Loan; provided, however, that
                                                       --------  -------      
     if any Interest Period for a CD Rate Loan or Offshore Rate Loan exceeds 90
     days or three months, respectively, the date that falls 90 days or three
     months (as the case may be) after the beginning of such Interest Period and
     after each Interest Payment Date thereafter is also an Interest Payment
     Date.

          "Interest Period" means, (a) as to any Offshore Rate Loan, the period
           ---------------                                                     
     commencing on the Borrowing Date of such Loan or on the
     Conversion/Continuation Date on which the Loan is converted into or
     continued as an Offshore Rate Loan, and ending on the date one, two, three
     or six months thereafter as selected by the applicable Borrower in its
     Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Conversion/Continuation; and (b) as to any
     CD Rate Loan, the period commencing on the Borrowing Date of such Loan or
     on the Conversion/Continuation Date on which the Loan is converted into or
     continued as a CD Rate Loan, and ending 30, 60, 90 or 180 days thereafter,
     as selected by the Company in its Notice of Borrowing or Notice of
     Conversion/Continuation;

     provided that:

               (i) if any Interest Period would otherwise end on a day that is
          not a Business Day, that Interest Period shall be extended to the
          following Business Day unless, in the case of an Offshore Rate Loan,
          the result of such extension would be to carry such Interest Period
          into another calendar month, in which event such Interest Period shall
          end on the preceding Business Day;

              (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to an Offshore Rate Loan that
          begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for
          which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month
          at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day
          of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and

             (iii) no Interest Period for any Loan shall extend beyond the
          Revolving Termination Date.

          "IRS" means the Internal Revenue Service, and any Governmental
           ---                                                          
     Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions under the Code.

                                       17
<PAGE>
 
          "Lending Office" means, as to any Bank, the office or offices of such
           --------------                                                      
     Bank specified as its "Lending Office" or "Domestic Lending Office" or
     "Offshore Lending Office", as the case may be, on Schedule 10.02, or such
                                                       --------------         
     other office or offices as such Bank may from time to time notify the
     Company and the Agents.

          "LIBOR" has the meaning specified in the definition of the "Offshore
           -----                                                              
     Rate."

          "Lien" means any security interest, mortgage, deed of trust, pledge,
           ----                                                               
     hypothecation, assignment, charge or deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien
     (statutory or other) or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature
     whatsoever in respect of any property (including those created by, arising
     under or evidenced by any conditional sale or other title retention
     agreement, the interest of a lessor under a capital lease, any financing
     lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the
     foregoing, or the filing of any financing statement naming the owner of the
     asset to which such lien relates as debtor, under the Uniform Commercial
     Code or any comparable law) and any contingent or other agreement to
     provide any of the foregoing, but not including the interest of a lessor
     under an operating lease.

          "Loan" means an extension of credit by a Bank to a Borrower under
           ----                                                            
     Article II, and may be a Base Rate Loan, Canadian Prime Rate Loan, CD Rate
     Loan or an Offshore Rate Loan (each, a "Type" of Loan) or a Tranche A Loan
                                             ----                              
     or a Tranche B Loan.

          "Loan Documents" means this Agreement, any Notes, the Collateral
           --------------                                                 
     Documents, the Guaranty, the Fee Letter, any Drafts, any Bankers'
     Acceptances and all other documents delivered to the Agent or any Bank in
     connection herewith.

          "Lowest Quarterly Market Value" means, for any calendar quarter, the
           -----------------------------                                      
     lowest Market Value reflected on the Valuation Summary delivered pursuant
     to the Pledge Agreement in respect of such quarter.

          "Majority Banks" means at any time Banks then holding more than 50% of
           --------------                                                       
     the then aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Loans, or, if no such
     principal amount is then outstanding, Banks then having more than 50% of
     the Commitments.

          "Margin Stock" means "margin stock" as such term is defined in
           ------------                                                 
     Regulation G, T, U or X of the FRB.

          "Market Value" has the meaning specified in the Pledge Agreement.
           ------------                                                    

                                       18
<PAGE>
 
          "Material Adverse Effect" means (a) a material adverse change in, or a
           -----------------------                                              
     material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, properties,
     condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of the Company and its
     Subsidiaries taken as a whole or any Material Subsidiary; (b) a material
     impairment of the ability of any Borrower to perform under any Loan
     Document and to avoid any Event of Default; or (c) a material adverse
     effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability
     against any Borrower of any Loan Document.

          "Material Subsidiary" means, at any time, (i) Medis and (ii) any other
           -------------------                                                  
     Subsidiary having at such time 10% or more of Company's consolidated total
     (gross) revenues for the preceding four fiscal quarter period, as of the
     last day of the preceding fiscal quarter based upon the Company's most
     recent annual or quarterly financial statements delivered to the Agent
     under Section 6.01.

          "Medis" has the meaning specified in the introductory clause hereto.
           -----                                                              

          "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor
           -------                                                         
     thereto that is a nationally-recognized rating agency.

          "Multiemployer Plan" means a "multiemployer plan", as defined in
           ------------------                                             
     Section 3(37) of ERISA, to which the Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates
     is contributing, or ever has contributed, or to which the Company or any of
     its ERISA Affiliates has, or ever has had, an obligation to contribute.

          "Net Worth" means the sum of the capital stock and additional paid in
           ---------                                                           
     capital plus retained earnings (or minus accumulated deficits) of the
     Company and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in
     conformity with GAAP on such date.

          "Note" means a promissory note executed by a Borrower in favor of a
           ----                                                              
     Bank pursuant to subsection 2.02(b), substantially in the form of Exhibit
     F-1 in the case of the Company with respect to Tranche A Loans,
     substantially in the form of Exhibit F-2 in the case of the Company with
     respect to Tranche B Domestic Loans or substantially in the form of Exhibit
     F-3 in the case of Medis with respect to Tranche B Canadian Loans.

          "Notice of Borrowing" means a notice substantially in the form of
           -------------------                                             
     Exhibit A.

          "Notice of Conversion/Continuation" means a notice substantially in
           ---------------------------------                                 
     the form of Exhibit B.

                                       19
<PAGE>
 
          "Notice of Election of Projected Market Value" means a notice
           --------------------------------------------                
     substantially in the form of Exhibit K.

          "Obligations" means all advances, debts, liabilities, obligations,
           -----------                                                      
     covenants and duties arising under any Loan Document owing by either of the
     Borrowers to any Bank, any Agent, or any Indemnified Person, whether direct
     or indirect (including those acquired by assignment), absolute or
     contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising.

          "OECD" means the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
           ----                                                     
     Development.

          "Offshore Rate" means, for any Interest Period, with respect to
           -------------                                                 
     Offshore Rate Loans comprising part of the same Borrowing, the rate of
     interest per annum (rounded upward to the next 1/100th of 1%) determined by
     the Agent as follows:

     Offshore Rate =                LIBOR
                     ------------------------------------
                     1.00 - Eurodollar Reserve Percentage

     Where,

               "Eurodollar Reserve Percentage" means for any day for any
                -----------------------------                           
          Interest Period (A) in the case of Tranche A Loans or Tranche B
          Domestic Loans, the maximum reserve percentage (expressed as a
          decimal, rounded upward to the next 1/100th of 1%) in effect on such
          day (whether or not applicable to any Tranche A Bank or Tranche B
          Domestic Bank) under regulations issued from time to time by the FRB
          for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any
          emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with
          respect to Eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as
          "Eurocurrency liabilities") and (B) in the case of Tranche B Canadian
          Loans, the maximum reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, rounded
          upward to the next 1/100th of 1%) in effect on such day (whether or
          not applicable to any Tranche B Canadian Bank) under any applicable
          regulations of the central bank or other relevant Governmental
          Authority in Canada; and

               "LIBOR" means the rate of interest per annum determined by the
                -----                                                        
          Agent to be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward to the next 1/16th of
          1%) of the rates of interest per annum notified to the Agent by each
          Reference Bank as the rate of interest at which deposits in the
          Applicable Currency in the approximate amount of the amount of the
          Loan to be made or continued as, or converted into, an Offshore Rate
          Loan by such Reference Bank and having a maturity 

                                       20
<PAGE>
 
          comparable to such Interest Period would be offered to major banks in
          the London interbank market at their request at approximately 11:00
          a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such
          Interest Period.

          The Offshore Rate shall be adjusted automatically as to all Offshore
     Rate Loans then outstanding as of the effective date of any change in the
     Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.

          "Offshore Rate Loan" means a Loan that bears interest based on the
           ------------------                                               
     Offshore Rate and may be a Tranche A Loan, a Tranche B Domestic Loan or a
     Tranche B Canadian Loan.

          "Organization Documents" means, for any corporation, the certificate
           ----------------------                                             
     or articles of incorporation, the bylaws, any certificate of determination
     or instrument relating to the rights of preferred shareholders of such
     corporation, any shareholder rights agreement, and all applicable
     resolutions of the board of directors (or any committee thereof) of such
     corporation.

          "Other Taxes" means any present or future stamp or documentary taxes
           -----------                                                        
     or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies which
     arise from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or
     registration of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other
     Loan Documents.

          "Overnight Canadian Rate" means, for any day, the rate of interest per
           -----------------------                                              
     annum at which overnight deposits in Canadian Dollars, in an amount
     approximately equal to the amount with respect to which such rate is being
     determined, would be offered for such day by Agent's London Branch to major
     banks in the London or other applicable offshore interbank market.

          "Participant" has the meaning specified in subsection 10.08(d).
           -----------                                                   

          "PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or any
           ----                                                        
     Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions under
     ERISA.

          "Pension Plan" means any Employee Benefit Plan, other than a
           ------------                                               
     Multiemployer Plan, which is subject to Section 412 of the Code or Section
     302 of ERISA.

          "Permitted Liens" has the meaning specified in Section 7.01.
           ---------------                                            

          "Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, business
           ------                                                         
     trust, limited liability company, 

                                       21
<PAGE>
 
     joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture or
     other organization or Governmental Authority.

          "Pledge Agreement" means a Pledge and Security Agreement substantially
           ----------------                                                     
     in the form of Exhibit I.

          "Projected Market Value" means the Market Value of the Collateral that
           ----------------------                                               
     the Company intends to pledge under the Pledge Agreement to secure the
     Commitments and the Loans (if any) for the succeeding calendar quarter as
     set forth in a Notice of Election of Projected Market Value.

          "Pro Rata Share" means, as to any Bank at any time, the percentage
           --------------                                                   
     equivalent (expressed as a decimal, rounded to the ninth decimal place) at
     such time of such Bank's Commitment divided by the combined Commitments of
     all Banks.

          "Qualifying Collateral" means Collateral as to which a first priority
           ---------------------                                               
     Lien, subject to no other Liens (except the lien in favor of the Custodian
     that secures the obligations of the Company to the Custodian under the
     Custodial Agreement that is equal and ratable with the Lien of the Agent
     and the Lien in favor of the Custodian that secures the obligations of the
     Company to the Custodian other than under the Custodial Agreement that is
     junior to the Lien of the Agent), exists in favor of the Agent for the
     benefit of the Agents and the Banks pursuant to the Collateral Documents,
     and of a type as to which the Company has furnished an opinion of counsel
     (which counsel shall be satisfactory to the Agent) addressed to the Agent
     and the Banks, in the form of Exhibit D-3 or otherwise satisfactory to the
     Agent and Majority Banks and opining that a perfected Lien exists or will
     exist in favor of the Agent for the benefit of the Banks, and consisting of
     (a) cash held in a segregated deposit account with the Agent or with the
     Custodian contemplated under the Custodial Agreement and the Custodial
     Agreement Acknowledgement, (b) securities issued by the United States
     Government or (c) securities directly and unconditionally guaranteed by the
     United States Government; provided, however, that if the Company proposes
                               --------  -------                              
     to pledge Collateral of the type described in clause (b) or (c) above, such
     Collateral shall not constitute Qualifying Collateral unless and until the
     Company has furnished to the Agent, with sufficient copies for each Bank, a
     certificate of the Company signed by a Responsible Officer to the effect
     that such Collateral constitutes Collateral of such type and such other
     evidence, certificates or opinions as the Agent may, at the request of any
     Bank, reasonably request; and provided, further, that if any Bank shall
                                   --------  -------                        
     have notified the Agent that under any Capital Adequacy Regulation then in
     effect with respect to such Bank, assets secured by such 

                                       22
<PAGE>
 
     Collateral do not have a risk category with a risk weight of 20%, such
     Collateral shall not be Qualifying Collateral as to that Bank, and the
     provisions of subsection 3.03(c) shall apply to such Bank.

          "Rating Agency" means S&P, Moody's and, to the extent provided in the
           -------------                                                       
     definition of Applicable Rating Level, Duff & Phelps.

          "Reference Banks" means BofA and Chemical Bank.
           ---------------                               

          "Relevant Calendar Quarter" has the meaning specified in subsection
           -------------------------                                         
     2.09(b).

          "Requirement of Law" means, as to any Person, any law (statutory or
           ------------------                                                
     common), treaty, rule or regulation or determination of an arbitrator or of
     a Governmental Authority, in each case applicable to or binding upon the
     Person or any of its property or to which the Person or any of its property
     is subject, including but not limited to any Environmental Law.

          "Reserve Percentage" has the meaning specified in the definition of
           ------------------                                                
     "CD Rate."

          "Responsible Officer" means the chief executive officer, the president
           -------------------                                                  
     or any vice president of the Company or Medis, as applicable; and, with
     respect to compliance with financial covenants, the chief financial officer
     or the treasurer of the Company.

          "Revolving Termination Date" means the earlier to occur of:
           --------------------------                                

               (a)  March 31, 2000; and

               (b) the date on which the Commitments terminate in accordance
          with the provisions of this Agreement.

          "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Group and any successor thereto
           ---                                                                 
     that is a nationally-recognized rating agency.

          "Schedule I Bank" means any Tranche B Canadian Bank that is a bank
           ---------------                                                  
     referred to in Schedule I to the Bank Act (Canada), S.C. 1991, c.46, as
     amended.

          "Schedule II Bank" means any Tranche B Canadian Bank that is not a
           ----------------                                                 
     Schedule I Bank.

          "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any
           ---                                                      
     Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.

                                       23
<PAGE>
 
          "Subsidiary" of a Person means any corporation, association,
           ----------                                                 
     partnership, limited liability company, joint venture or other business
     entity of which more than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests
     (in the case of Persons other than corporations), is owned or controlled
     directly or indirectly by the Person, or one or more of the Subsidiaries of
     the Person, or a combination thereof.  Unless the context otherwise clearly
     requires, references herein to a "Subsidiary" refer to a Subsidiary of the
     Company.

          "Surety Instruments" means all letters of credit (including standby
           ------------------                                                
     and commercial), banker's acceptances, bank guaranties, shipside bonds,
     surety bonds and similar instruments.

          "Swap Contract" means any agreement (including any master agreement
           -------------                                                     
     and any agreement, whether or not in writing, relating to any single
     transaction) that is an interest rate swap agreement, basis swap, forward
     rate agreement, commodity swap, commodity option, equity or equity index
     swap or option, bond option, interest rate option, forward foreign exchange
     agreement, rate cap, collar or floor agreement, currency swap agreement,
     cross-currency rate swap agreement, swaption, currency option or any other,
     similar agreement (including any option to enter into any of the
     foregoing).

          "Taxes" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts,
           -----                                                             
     deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect
     thereto, excluding, in the case of each Bank, the Agent, the Canadian
     Administrative Agent and any other Person having at any time an interest in
     any Tranche B Canadian Loan or any Bankers' Acceptance, such taxes
     (including, without limitation, income taxes, capital taxes, minimum taxes,
     branch taxes, capital gains taxes or franchise taxes) (i) as are imposed on
     or measured by each Bank's (or other such Person's) net income or taxable
     capital by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under
     the laws of which such Bank (or such other Person) or the Agent, as the
     case may be, is organized or in respect of which it is a resident or within
     which it maintains the actual lending office or (ii) to the extent
     attributable to a permanent establishment or fixed base located in any
     jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) identified in (i)
     hereof.

          "Total Capitalization", on any date, means the sum of (a) Total Debt
           --------------------                                               
     and (b) the Net Worth on such date.

          "Total Debt" means, on any date, all Indebtedness of the Company and
           ----------                                                         
     its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis on such date.

                                       24
<PAGE>
 
          "Total Utilization of Tranche B Commitments" means, (i) as to the
           ------------------------------------------                      
     Tranche B Banks at any date of determination, the sum of (A) the aggregate
     principal amount of all outstanding Tranche B Loans plus (B) the Acceptance
                                                         ----                   
     Usage, in each case valued in Dollar Equivalents and (ii) as to any Tranche
     B Bank at any date of determination, the sum of (x) the aggregate principal
     amount of all Tranche B Loans made by such Tranche B Bank or its Affiliate
     Bank plus (y) the Acceptance Usage of such Tranche B Bank or its Affiliate
     Bank, in each case valued in Dollar Equivalents.

          "Tranche A Bank" means a Bank having a Tranche A Commitment as set
           --------------                                                   
     forth on Schedule 2.01 hereof and its successors and assigns.

          "Tranche A Commitment", as to each Tranche A Bank, has the meaning
           --------------------                                             
     specified in Section 2.01(a).

          "Tranche A Loan" means any Loan made to the Company pursuant to
           --------------                                                
     Section 2.01(a) which may be an Offshore Rate Loan, a Base Rate Loan or a
     CD Rate Loan.

          "Tranche A Pro Rata Share" means, as to any Tranche A Bank at any
           ------------------------                                        
     time, the percentage equivalent (expressed as a decimal, rounded to the
     ninth decimal place) at such time of such Tranche A Bank's Tranche A
     Commitment divided by the combined Tranche A Commitments of all Tranche A
     Banks.

          "Tranche B Bank" means a Bank having a Tranche B Commitment as set
           --------------                                                   
     forth on Schedule 2.01 hereof and its successors and assigns.  With respect
     to Tranche B Canadian Loans and the Bankers Acceptance Facility, Tranche B
     Banks shall be the Tranche B Canadian Banks and with respect to Tranche B
     Domestic Loans Tranche B Banks shall be the Tranche B Domestic Banks.

          "Tranche B Canadian Bank" means each Tranche B Bank acting in the
           -----------------------                                         
     capacity of a Canadian bank listed on Schedule 2.01 as a Tranche B Canadian
     Bank and its successors and assigns.

          "Tranche B Canadian Loan" means any Tranche B Loan made to Medis
           -----------------------                                        
     pursuant to Section 2.01(b) denominated in Canadian Dollars which shall be
     an Offshore Rate Loan or a Canadian Prime Rate Loan except to the extent
     required under Section 2.15.

          "Tranche B Commitment", as to each Bank, has the meaning specified in
           --------------------                                                
     Section 2.01(b).  The Tranche B Commitment for any Tranche B Bank that has
     an Affiliate Bank is a single value for such Tranche B Bank and its
     Affiliate Bank taken together.

                                       25
<PAGE>
 
          "Tranche B Domestic Bank" means each Tranche B Bank acting in the
           -----------------------                                         
     capacity of a domestic bank listed on Schedule 2.01 as a Tranche B Domestic
     Bank and its successors and assigns.

          "Tranche B Domestic Loan" means any Tranche B Loan made to the Company
           -----------------------                                              
     pursuant to Section 2.01(b) denominated in Dollars which may be an Offshore
     Rate Loan, a Base Rate Loan or a CD Rate Loan.

          "Tranche B Loan" means a Tranche B Domestic Loan or a Tranche B
           --------------                                                
     Canadian Loan.

          "Tranche B Pro Rata Share" means, as to any Tranche B Bank at any
           ------------------------                                        
     time, the percentage equivalent (expressed as a decimal, rounded to the
     ninth decimal place) at such time of such Tranche B Bank's Tranche B
     Commitment divided by the combined Tranche B Commitments of all Tranche B
     Banks.  The Tranche B Pro Rata Share for any Tranche B Bank shall at all
     times be equal to the Tranche B Pro Rata Share of its Affiliate Bank.

          "Type" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Loan."
           ----                                                        

          "Unfunded Pension Liability" means the excess of a Plan's benefit
           --------------------------                                      
     liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over the current value of
     that Plan's assets, determined in accordance with the assumptions used for
     funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the
     applicable plan year.

          "United States" and "U.S." each means the United States of America.
           -------------       ----                                          

          "Valuation Summary" has the meaning specified in the Pledge Agreement.
           -----------------                                                    

          "Wholly-Owned Subsidiary" means any corporation in which (other than
           -----------------------                                            
     directors' qualifying shares required by law) 100% of the capital stock of
     each class having ordinary voting power, and 100% of the capital stock of
     every other class, in each case, at the time as of which any determination
     is being made, is owned, beneficially and of record, by the Company, or by
     one or more of the other Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries, or both.

     1.02  Other Interpretive Provisions .  (a)  The meanings of defined terms
           ------------------------------                                     
are equally applicable to the singular and plural forms of the defined terms.

          (b) The words "hereof", "herein", "hereunder" and similar words refer
to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this
Agreement; and subsection, Section, 

                                       26
<PAGE>
 
Schedule and Exhibit references are to this Agreement unless otherwise
specified.

          (c)(i) The term "documents" includes any and all instruments,
     documents, agreements, certificates, indentures, notices and other
     writings, however evidenced.

               (ii) The term "including" is not limiting and means "including
     without limitation."

              (iii) In the computation of periods of time from a specified
     date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including";
     the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding", and the word
     "through" means "to and including."

          (d) Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, (i) references to
agreements (including this Agreement) and other contractual instruments shall be
deemed to include all subsequent amendments and other modifications thereto, but
only to the extent such amendments and other modifications are not prohibited by
the terms of any Loan Document, and (ii) references to any statute or regulation
are to be construed as including all statutory and regulatory provisions
consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing or interpreting the statute or
regulation.

          (e) The captions and headings of this Agreement are for convenience of
reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.

          (f) This Agreement and the other Loan Documents may use several
different limitations, tests or measurements to regulate the same or similar
matters.  All such limitations, tests and measurements are cumulative and shall
each be performed in accordance with their terms.

          (g) This Agreement and the other Loan Documents are the result of
negotiations among and have been reviewed by counsel to the Agents, the
Borrowers and the other parties, and are the products of all parties.
Accordingly, they shall not be construed against the Banks or the Agents merely
because of the Agents' or Banks' involvement in their preparation.

     1.03  Accounting Principles.  (a) Unless the context otherwise clearly
           ----------------------                                            
requires, all accounting terms not expressly defined herein shall be construed,
and all financial computations required under this Agreement shall be made, in
accordance with GAAP, consistently applied.

          (b) If any changes in accounting principles from those used in the
preparation of the financial statements referred to in Section 5.08 hereafter
occasioned by the promulgation of rules, regulations, pronouncements and
opinions 

                                       27
<PAGE>
 
by or required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants (or successors thereto or agencies
with similar functions) result in a change in the method of calculation of
financial covenants, standards or terms found in Articles I, VI and VII hereof,
the parties hereto agree to enter into negotiations in order to amend such
provisions so as to equitably reflect such changes with the desired result that
the criteria for evaluating the Company's financial condition shall be the same
after such changes as if such changes had not been made.

          (c) References herein to "fiscal year" and "fiscal quarter" refer to
such fiscal periods of the Company.

     1.04  Canadian Currency Equivalents.  For all purposes of the Loan
           -----------------------------                               
Documents (but not for purposes of the preparation of any financial statements
delivered pursuant hereto), the equivalent in Canadian Dollars of an amount in
Dollars, and the equivalent in Dollars of an amount in Canadian Dollars shall be
determined at the Canadian Spot Rate.


                                  ARTICLE II

                                  THE CREDITS
                                  -----------

     2.01  Amounts and Terms of Commitments.  (a) Each Tranche A Bank severally
           --------------------------------                           
agrees, on and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, to make
Base Rate Loans, CD Rate Loans or Offshore Rate Loans denominated in Dollars to
the Company from time to time as requested by the Company in accordance with
Sections 2.03 and 10.02 on any Business Day during the period from the Closing
Date to the Revolving Termination Date, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at
any time outstanding the amount set forth opposite its name in the column under
the heading "Tranche A Commitments" on Schedule 2.01 (such amount, as the same
                                       -------------      
may be reduced under Section 2.05 or as a result of one or more assignments
under Section 10.08, the Bank's "Tranche A Commitment"); provided, however,
                                 --------------------    --------  -------
that, after giving effect to any Borrowing, (i) the aggregate principal amount
of all outstanding Tranche A Loans to the Company shall not at any time exceed
the combined Tranche A Commitments and (ii) the sum of (A) the aggregate
principal amount of all outstanding Tranche A Loans to the Company and (B) the
Total Utilization of Tranche B Commitments shall not at any time exceed the
Commitments. Within the limits of each Bank's Tranche A Commitment, and subject
to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Company may borrow under this
Section 2.01(a), prepay under Section 2.06 and reborrow under this Section
2.01(a); provided further that no Tranche A Loan to the Company shall be
         -------- -------                                               
denominated in or payable in a currency other than Dollars.

                                       28
<PAGE>
 
          (b) Each Tranche B Bank severally agrees, on and subject to the terms
and conditions set forth herein, to make Tranche B Loans to the Company or Medis
from time to time as requested by the Company or Medis and the Company in
accordance with Sections 2.03 and 10.02 on any Business Day during the period
from the Closing Date to the Revolving Termination Date, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed at any time outstanding a Dollar Equivalent amount equal to the
amount set forth opposite its name in the column under the heading "Tranche B
Commitments" on Schedule 2.01 (such amount as the same may be reduced under
                -------------                                              
Section 2.05 or as a result of one or more assignments under Section 10.08, the
Bank's Tranche B Commitment); provided, however, that, (i) after giving effect
- ---------------------------   --------  -------                               
to any Borrowing, (A) the Total Utilization of Tranche B Commitments shall not
at any time exceed the combined Tranche B Commitments and (B) in the case of
Tranche B Canadian Loans, Medis shall be a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the
Company and (C) the sum of (x) the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding
Tranche A Loans to the Company and (y) the Total Utilization of Tranche B
Commitments shall not at any time exceed the Commitments; (ii) the Total
Utilization of Tranche B Commitments of any Tranche B Banks shall not exceed its
Tranche B Commitment; (iii) all Tranche B Loans to Medis shall be made by the
Tranche B Canadian Banks and shall be Offshore Rate Loans or Canadian Prime Rate
Loans denominated and payable in Canadian Dollars and no other currency and
shall not be CD Rate Loans or Base Rate Loans (except as provided in Section
2.15); and (iv) any Tranche B Loan to the Company shall be made by the Tranche B
Domestic Banks and shall be denominated and payable in Dollars and no other
currency.  Within the limits of each Bank's Tranche B Commitment, and subject to
the other terms and conditions hereof, the Company and/or Medis may borrow under
this Section 2.01(b), prepay under Section 2.06 and reborrow under this Section
2.01(b).

     2.02  Loan Accounts.  (a) The Loans made by each Bank shall be evidenced
           -------------                                                      
by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by such Bank in the ordinary
course of business.  The loan accounts or records maintained by the Agent, the
Canadian Administrative Agent and each Bank shall be conclusive absent manifest
error of the amount of the Loans made by the Banks to each Borrower and the
interest and payments thereon.  Any failure so to record or any error in doing
so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of each Borrower
hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Loans made to such
Borrower.

          (b) Upon the request of any Bank made through the Agent, the Loans
made by such Bank to either or both Borrowers may be evidenced by one or more
Notes, instead of loan accounts.  Each such Bank shall endorse on the schedules
annexed to its Note(s) the date, amount and maturity of each Loan made by it and
the amount and Applicable Currency of each payment of principal made by the
applicable Borrower with respect thereto.  

                                       29
<PAGE>
 
Each such Bank is irrevocably authorized by the Borrowers to endorse its Note(s)
and each Bank's record shall be conclusive absent manifest error; provided,
                                                                  --------
however, that the failure of a Bank to make, or an error in making, a notation
- -------
thereon with respect to any Loan shall not limit or otherwise affect the
obligations of the Borrowers hereunder or under any such Note to such Bank.

     2.03  Procedure for Borrowing.  (a) Each Borrowing of a Tranche A Loan or
           -----------------------                                              
Tranche B Domestic Loan shall be made upon the Company's irrevocable written
notice delivered to the Agent in the form of a Notice of Borrowing (which notice
must be received by the Agent prior to 9:00 a.m. (San Francisco time) (A) in the
case of Tranche A Loans (i) three Business Days prior to the requested Borrowing
Date, in the case of Offshore Rate Loans; (ii) two Business Days prior to the
requested Borrowing Date, in the case of CD Rate Loans; and (iii) on the
requested Borrowing Date, in the case of Base Rate Loans, and (B) in the case of
Tranche B Domestic Loans, ten Business Days prior to the requested Borrowing.
Each Borrowing of a Tranche B Canadian Loan shall be made upon the Company's and
Medis' irrevocable written notice delivered to the Agent and the Canadian
Administrative Agent in the form of a Notice of Borrowing (which notice must be
received by the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Agent prior to 11:00 a.m.
(Toronto time) (i) one Business Day prior to the requested Borrowing Date in the
case of Canadian Prime Rate Loans and (ii) three Business Days prior to the
requested Borrowing Date in the case of Offshore Rate Loans.  Each Notice of
Borrowing shall specify:

               (A) the amount of the Borrowing, which shall be, in the case of a
     Tranche A Loan or Tranche B Domestic Loan, in an aggregate minimum amount
     of $10,000,000 or any multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, and, in the
     case of Tranche B Canadian Loans, in an aggregate minimum amount of
     Cdn.$5,000,000 or any multiple of Cdn.$1,000,000 in excess thereof;

               (B) the identity of the Borrower and the requested Borrowing
     Date, which shall be a Business Day;

               (C) whether the Loan is to be a Tranche A Loan or Tranche B
     Domestic Loan or Tranche B Canadian Loan and the Type of Loans comprising
     the Borrowing;

               (D) the duration of the Interest Period applicable to such Loans
     included in such notice.  If the Notice of Borrowing fails to specify the
     duration of the Interest Period for any Borrowing comprised of CD Rate
     Loans or Offshore Rate Loans, such Interest Period shall be 90 days or
     three months, respectively; and

               (E) the Applicable Currency.

                                       30
<PAGE>
 
          (b) The Agent will promptly notify (i) each Tranche A Bank of its
receipt of any Notice of Borrowing requesting a Borrowing of a Tranche A Loan
and the amount of such Bank's Tranche A Pro Rata Share of that Borrowing and
(ii) each Tranche B Bank of its receipt of any Notice of Borrowing requesting a
Borrowing of a Tranche B Domestic Loan and the amount of such Bank's Tranche B
Pro Rata Share of that Borrowing, and the Canadian Administrative Agent will
promptly notify each Tranche B Canadian Bank of its receipt of any Notice of
Borrowing requesting a Borrowing of a Tranche B Canadian Loan and the amount of
such Bank's Tranche B Pro Rata Share of that Borrowing.

          (c) The Dollar Equivalent amount of any Borrowing in Canadian Dollars
will be determined by the Agent for such Borrowing on the Computation Date
therefor in accordance with subsection 2.15(a).

          (d) Each Tranche A Bank or Tranche B Domestic Bank, as the case may
be, will make the amount of its Tranche A Pro Rata Share or Tranche B Pro Rata
Share, as applicable, of each Borrowing of a Tranche A Loan or Tranche B
Domestic Loan, as the case may be, available to the Agent for the account of the
Company at the Agent's Payment Office on the Borrowing Date requested by the
Company in funds immediately available to the Agent and in Dollars, by 11:00
a.m. (San Francisco time).  Each Tranche B Canadian Bank will make the amount of
its Tranche B Pro Rata Share of each Borrowing of a Tranche B Canadian Loan
available to the Canadian Administrative Agent for the account of Medis in
Canadian Dollars at the Canadian Administrative Agent's Payment Office by 11:00
a.m. (Toronto time).  The proceeds of all such Loans will then be made available
to the applicable Borrower on the Borrowing Date by the Applicable Agent at such
office by crediting the account of the applicable Borrower on the books of BofA
or BofA Canada, as applicable, with the aggregate of the amounts made available
to the Applicable Agent by the Banks and in like funds as received by the
Applicable Agent.

          (e) After giving effect to any Borrowing, there may not be more than
five different Interest Periods in effect.

     2.04  Conversion and Continuation Elections.  (a) The Company may in
           -------------------------------------                          
respect of its outstanding Loans, upon irrevocable written notice to the Agent
in accordance with subsection 2.04(c):

               (i) elect, as of any Business Day, in the case of Base Rate
     Loans, or as of the last day of the applicable Interest Period, in the case
     of any other Type of Loans, to convert any such Loans (or any part thereof
     in an amount not less than $10,000,000, or that is in an integral multiple
     of $1,000,000 in excess thereof) into Loans of any other Type; or

                                       31
<PAGE>
 
              (ii) elect, as of the last day of the applicable Interest Period,
     to continue any Loans having Interest Periods expiring on such day (or any
     part thereof in an amount not less than $10,000,000, or that is in an
     integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof);

provided, that if at any time the aggregate amount of CD Rate Loans or Offshore
- --------                                                                       
Rate Loans in respect of any Borrowing is reduced, by payment, prepayment, or
conversion of part thereof to be less than $10,000,000, such CD Rate Loans or
Offshore Rate Loans shall automatically convert into Base Rate Loans, and on and
after such date the right of the Company to continue such Loans as, and convert
such Loans into, Offshore Rate Loans or CD Rate Loans, as the case may be, shall
terminate; provided further, that the Company may not elect to convert a Tranche
           -------- -------                                                     
A Loan into a Tranche B Loan or convert a Tranche B Loan into a Tranche A Loan.

          (b) Medis may in respect of its outstanding Loans, upon irrevocable
written notice to the Agent in accordance with subsection 2.04(c):

               (i) elect, as of any Business Day, in the case of Canadian Prime
     Rate Loans, or as of the last day of the applicable Interest Period, in the
     case of Offshore Rate Loans, to convert any such Loans (or any part thereof
     in an amount not less than Cdn.$5,000,000, or that is in an integral
     multiple of Cdn.$1,000,000 in excess thereof) into Loans of another Type
     (it being understood that any such Loan of another Type shall be either a
     Canadian Prime Rate Loan or an Offshore Rate Loan); or

              (ii) elect, as of the last day of the applicable Interest Period,
     to continue any Loans having Interest Periods expiring on such day (or any
     part thereof in an amount not less than Cdn.$5,000,000, or that is an
     integral multiple of Cdn.$1,000,000 in excess thereof);

provided, that if at any time the aggregate amount of Offshore Rate Loans in
respect of any Borrowing is reduced, by payment, prepayment, or conversion of
part thereof to be less than Cdn.$5,000,000, such Offshore Rate Loans shall
automatically convert into Canadian Prime Rate Loans, and on and after such date
the right of Medis to continue such Loans, as, and convert such Loans into,
Offshore Rate Loans, shall terminate.

          (c) The Company, in the case of a conversion or continuation of a
Tranche A Loan or Tranche B Domestic Loan, shall deliver a Notice of
Conversion/Continuation to be received by the Agent not later than 9:00 a.m.
(San Francisco time) (i) three Business Days in advance of the
Conversion/Continuation Date, if the Loans are to be converted into or continued
as Offshore Rate Loans denominated in Dollars; (ii) two Business Days in advance
of the Conversion/Continuation 

                                       32
<PAGE>
 
Date, if the Loans are to be converted into or continued as CD Rate Loans; and
(iii) on the Conversion/Continuation Date, if the Loans are to be converted into
Base Rate Loans. The Company and Medis, in the case of a continuation of a
Tranche B Canadian Loan, shall deliver a Notice of Conversion/Continuation to be
received by the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Agent not later than 11:00
a.m. (Toronto time) (i) at least three Business Days in advance of the proposed
Conversion/Continuation Date if the Loans are to be converted into or continued
as Offshore Rate Loans and (ii) at least one Business Day in advance of the
proposed Conversion/Continuation Date, if the Loans are to be converted into
Canadian Prime Rate Loans. Each Notice of Conversion/Continuation shall specify:

               (A) the proposed Conversion/Continuation Date;

               (B) the aggregate amount of Loans to be converted or renewed;

               (C) the Type of Loans resulting from the proposed conversion or
     continuation; and

               (D) other than in the case of conversions into Base Rate Loans or
     Canadian Prime Rate Loans, the duration of the requested Interest Period.

          (d) If upon the expiration of any Interest Period applicable to CD
Rate Loans or Offshore Rate Loans denominated in Dollars, the Company has failed
to select in a timely manner a new Interest Period to be applicable to such CD
Rate Loans or Offshore Rate Loans, as the case may be, or if any Default or
Event of Default then exists, the Company shall be deemed to have elected to
convert such CD Rate Loans or Offshore Rate Loans into Base Rate Loans effective
as of the expiration date of such Interest Period.  If Medis has failed to
select in a timely manner a new Interest Period to be applicable to Offshore
Rate Loans prior to 11:00 a.m. (Toronto time) at least three Business Days in
advance of the expiration date of the current Interest Period applicable thereto
as provided in subsection 2.04(c), or if any Default or Event of Default shall
then exist, Medis shall be deemed to have elected to convert such Offshore Rate
Loans into Canadian Prime Rate Loans effective as of the expiration date of such
Interest Period.

          (e) The Applicable Agent will promptly notify each Tranche A Bank,
Tranche B Domestic Bank or Tranche B Canadian Bank, as applicable, of its
receipt of a Notice of Conversion/Continuation, or, if no timely notice is
provided by a Borrower, the Applicable Agent will promptly notify each Tranche A
Bank, Tranche B Domestic Bank or Tranche B Canadian Bank, as applicable, of the
details of any automatic conversion.  All conversions and continuations shall be
made ratably according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the
Tranche A Loans, Tranche B Domestic Loans or Tranche B Canadian Loans held 

                                       33
<PAGE>
 
by each Tranche A Bank, Tranche B Domestic Bank or Tranche B Canadian Bank with
respect to which the notice was given.

          (f) Unless the Majority Banks otherwise agree, during the existence of
a Default or Event of Default, the Company may not elect to have a Tranche A
Loan or Tranche B Domestic Loan converted into or continued as an Offshore Rate
Loan or a CD Rate Loan, and Medis may not elect to have a Tranche B Canadian
Loan continued as an Offshore Rate Loan.

          (g) After giving effect to any conversion or continuation of Loans,
there may not be more than five different Interest Periods in effect.

          (h) The Dollar Equivalent amount for any conversion to or continuation
of a Borrowing in Canadian Dollars will be determined by the Agent for such
conversion or continuation on the Computation Date therefor in accordance with
subsection 2.15(a).

     2.05  Voluntary Termination or Reduction of Commitments.  The Company may,
           -------------------------------------------------
upon not less than three Business Days' prior notice to the Agent and the
Canadian Administrative Agent, terminate or permanently reduce the Commitments,
provided that any such permanent reduction shall be in an aggregate minimum
amount of $10,000,000 or any multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; unless,
                                                                       ------ 
after giving effect thereto and to any prepayments of Loans made on the
effective date thereof, the then-outstanding principal amount of the Tranche A
Loans would exceed the amount of the combined Tranche A Commitments then in
effect or the Total Utilization of Tranche B Commitments would exceed the amount
of the combined Tranche B Commitments then in effect.  Once reduced in
accordance with this Section, the Tranche A Commitments and the Tranche B
Commitments may not be increased.  The Tranche A Commitments may be terminated
only if the Tranche B Commitments are terminated simultaneously and the Tranche
B Commitments may be terminated only if the Tranche A Commitments are terminated
simultaneously.  Any reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably between
the Tranche A Commitments and the Tranche B Commitments.  Any reduction of the
Tranche A Commitments shall be applied to each Tranche A Bank according to its
Tranche A Pro Rata Share.  Any reduction of the Tranche B Commitments shall be
applied to each Tranche B Bank according to its Tranche B Pro Rata Share.  All
accrued commitment fees to, but not including, the effective date of any
reduction or termination of Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of
such reduction or termination.

     2.06  Optional Prepayments .  Subject to Section 3.04, the Company may, in
           ---------------------                                               
the case of Tranche A Loans or Tranche B Domestic Loans, at any time or from
time to time, upon irrevocable notice to the Agent (i) of not less than three
Business Days in the case of Offshore Rate Loans (ii) of not less than two
Business Days in the case of CD Rate Loans; 

                                       34
<PAGE>
 
(iii) by no later than 9:00 a.m. (San Francisco time) on the date specified for
prepayment in the case of Base Rate Loans, ratably prepay Tranche A Loans in
whole or in part, in minimum amounts of $10,000,000 or any multiple of
$1,000,000 in excess thereof. Subject to Section 3.04, Medis, in the case of
Tranche B Canadian Loans, may, at any time or from time to time, upon
irrevocable notice to the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Agent of not
less than three Business Days in the case of Tranche B Canadian Loans that are
Offshore Rate Loans and by no later than 11:00 a.m. (Toronto time) on the date
specified for prepayment in the case of Tranche B Canadian Loans that are
Canadian Prime Rate Loans, ratably prepay Tranche B Canadian Loans in whole or
in part, and if in part, in minimum amounts of Cdn.$5,000,000 or any integral
multiple of Cdn.$1,000,000 in excess thereof. Any notice of prepayment shall
specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Loans to be
prepaid and the Applicable Currency. The Applicable Agent will promptly notify
each Tranche A Bank, Tranche B Domestic Bank or Tranche B Canadian Bank of its
receipt of any such notice, and of such Bank's Tranche A Pro Rata Share or
Tranche B Pro Rata Share, as applicable of such prepayment. If such notice is
given by a Borrower, such Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment
amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified
therein, together with accrued interest to each such date on the amount prepaid
and any amounts required pursuant to Section 3.04.

     2.07  Repayment.  Each Borrower shall repay to the Applicable Agent for
           ---------                                                        
payment to the Tranche A Banks, Tranche B Domestic Banks or Tranche B Canadian
Banks, as applicable, on the Revolving Termination Date the aggregate principal
amount of Loans made to such Borrower and outstanding on such date.  If on any
date Medis ceases to be a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company, Medis shall
repay to the Tranche B Canadian Banks (i) the aggregate principal amount of
Tranche B Canadian Loans made to Medis and outstanding on such date and (ii) the
Face Amount of all outstanding Bankers' Acceptances that have not been paid.

     2.08  Interest.  (a) Each Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding
           --------                                                        
principal amount thereof from the applicable Borrowing Date as follows:

               (i) if a Base Rate Loan, then at a rate per annum equal to the
     Base Rate;

              (ii) if a CD Rate Loan, then (A) with respect to the portion of
     the CD Rate Loan that is less than or equal to the Market Value of the
     Qualifying Collateral allocated to such CD Rate Loan in accordance with the
     last sentence of Section 2.08(b), if any, at a rate per annum equal to the
     CD Rate plus 0.2500% and (B) with respect to the portion of such CD Rate
             ----                                                            
     Loan that exceeds the Market Value of the Qualifying Collateral allocated
     to such CD Rate Loan in accordance with the last sentence of Section
     2.08(b), if 

                                       35
<PAGE>
 
     any, at a rate per annum equal to the CD Rate plus the Applicable Margin;
                                                   ----    
     and

             (iii) if an Offshore Rate Loan, then (A) with respect to the
     portion of the Offshore Rate Loan that is less than or equal to the Market
     Value of the Qualifying Collateral allocated to such Offshore Rate Loan in
     accordance with the last sentence of Section 2.08(b), if any, at a rate per
     annum equal to the Offshore Rate plus 0.1250% and (B) with respect to the
                                      ----                                    
     portion of such Offshore Rate Loan that exceeds the Market Value of the
     Qualifying Collateral allocated to such Offshore Rate Loan in accordance
     with the last sentence of Section 2.08(b), if any, at a rate per annum
     equal to the Offshore Rate plus the Applicable Margin; and
                                ----                           

              (iv) if a Canadian Prime Rate Loan, then at a rate per annum equal
     to the Canadian Prime Rate.

          (b) Interest on each Loan shall be paid in arrears on each Interest
Payment Date.  Interest shall also be paid on the date of any prepayment of
Loans under Section 2.06 for the portion of the Loans so prepaid and upon
payment (including prepayment) in full thereof and, during the existence of any
Event of Default, interest shall be paid on demand of the Agent at the request
or with the consent of the Majority Banks.

          For purposes of determining the amount of interest payable on any
Interest Payment Date, the date of any prepayment or the date of any demand by
the Agent and for determining any Drawing Fee, the Market Value of the
Qualifying Collateral allocated to such Loan or the Face Amount in the case of a
Bankers' Acceptance used in the determination shall be deemed to be greater than
the aggregate principal amount of Loans or Face Amount, as the case may be,
outstanding on each day during the relevant Interest Period or portion thereof,
in the case of an Offshore Rate Loan or a CD Rate Loan, or during the applicable
term to maturity in the case of a Bankers' Acceptance.  On the fifth Business
Day following the end of each Collateral Period, the portion of each Offshore
Rate Loan or CD Rate Loan or Bankers' Acceptance that was less than, equal to or
exceeded the Market Value of the Qualifying Collateral allocated to such
Offshore Rate Loan, CD Rate Loan or Bankers' Acceptance during such Collateral
Period shall be redetermined for each day during such Collateral Period on the
basis of the Lowest Quarterly Market Value for such Collateral Period; provided,
that if the Commitments shall have been terminated, such redetermination shall
be made on the date of such termination on the basis of the Lowest Quarterly
Market Value during the Collateral Period prior to the date of termination of
the Commitments.  If such redetermination shall indicate that the Company or
Medis, as the case may be, paid less interest (or a lower Drawing Fee) in
respect of any day during such Collateral Period than was due, the applicable
Borrower, shall, within five Business Days after 

                                       36
<PAGE>
 
such redetermination is made, pay to the Applicable Agent, for distribution to
the Tranche A Banks, Tranche B Domestic Banks or Tranche B Canadian Banks, as
applicable, additional interest on the Loans or additional Drawing Fees in the
case of Bankers' Acceptances in an aggregate amount equal to the deficit. For
purposes of all determinations made pursuant to this subsection 2.08(b), the
Market Value of the Qualifying Collateral for any period shall be allocated to
the Loans and Bankers Acceptances in the following order of priority: (i) first,
to the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Offshore Rate Loans of the
Borrowers and CD Rate Loans of the Company and Face Amount of Bankers'
Acceptances outstanding on each day during such period on a pro rata basis, and
(ii) second, to the aggregate principal amount of Base Rate Loans and Canadian
Prime Rate Loans outstanding on each day during such period on a pro rata basis.

          (c) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Section, if any amount of
principal of or interest on any Loan, or any other amount payable hereunder or
under any other Loan Document is not paid in full when due (whether at stated
maturity, by acceleration, demand or otherwise), the applicable Borrower agrees
to pay interest on such unpaid principal or other amount, from the date such
amount becomes due until the date such amount is paid in full, and after as well
as before entry of judgment thereon to the extent permitted by law, payable on
demand, at a fluctuating rate per annum equal to (i) the Canadian Prime Rate
plus 1% in the case of Tranche B Canadian Loans redenominated in Canadian
- ----                                                                     
Dollars and Bankers' Acceptances and (ii) the Base Rate plus 1% in the case of
                                                        ----                  
Tranche A Loans, Tranche B Domestic Loans and Tranche B Canadian Loans
denominated in Dollars pursuant to Section 2.15 and any other Obligation.

          (d) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the obligations
of each Borrower to any Bank hereunder shall be subject to the limitation that
payments of interest shall not be required for any period for which interest is
computed hereunder, to the extent (but only to the extent) that contracting for
or receiving such payment by such Bank would be contrary to the provisions of
any law applicable to such Bank limiting the highest rate of interest that may
be lawfully contracted for, charged or received by such Bank, and in such event
the applicable Borrower shall pay such Bank interest at the highest rate
permitted by applicable law.

     2.09  Fees.  (a) Arrangement, Agency Fees.  The Company shall pay an
           ----       ------------------------                           
arrangement fee to the Arranger for the Arranger's own account, and shall pay an
agency fee to the Agent for the Agent's own account, as required by the letter
agreement ("Fee Letter") between the Company and the Arranger and Agent dated
            ----------                                                       
March 6, 1995.

          (b) Facility Fees.  The Company shall pay to the Agent for the
              -------------                                             
account of each Tranche A Bank and Tranche B Domestic Bank a facility fee
computed on a quarterly basis in 

                                       37
<PAGE>
 
arrears on the later of the fifth Business Day following the end of each
calendar quarter or the fifth Business Day after the Company has received from
the Agent a notice setting forth the amount of such fee equal to its Pro Rata
Share of:

               (i) 0.0500% per annum with respect to the portion of the
     Commitments that is less than or equal to the Market Value of the
     Qualifying Collateral, if any; and

              (ii) the Applicable Facility Fee Margin with respect to the
     portion of the Commitments that exceeds the Market Value of the Qualifying
     Collateral, if any.

Such facility fee shall accrue from the Closing Date to the Revolving
Termination Date and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the date
specified above following the end of each calendar quarter through the Revolving
Termination Date, with the final payment to be made on the Revolving Termination
Date; provided that, in connection with any reduction or termination of
      -------- ----                                                    
Commitments under Section 2.05, the accrued facility fee calculated for the
period ending on such date shall also be paid on the date of such reduction or
termination, with the following quarterly payment being calculated on the basis
of the period from such reduction or termination date to such quarterly payment
date.  The facility fee provided in this subsection shall accrue at all times
after the Closing Date, including at any time during which one or more
conditions in Article IV are not met.  For purposes of determining the portion
of the Commitments that is less than, equal to or exceeds the Market Value of
the Qualifying Collateral in respect of any Collateral Period, the date of any
reduction or termination of the Commitments or the Revolving Termination Date,
the Market Value of the Qualifying Collateral used in the determination shall be
equal to the Lowest Quarterly Market Value of the Qualifying Collateral for such
Collateral Period and shall be allocated pro rata among the Commitments; 
provided, however, that in the event the date of any reduction or termination of
- --------  -------                                                               
the Commitments or the Revolving Termination Date is not the last day of a
Collateral Period, or occurs between the last day of a Collateral Period and the
fifth Business Day of the immediately succeeding Collateral Period, the Market
Value of the Qualifying Collateral used in the determination of the accrued
facility fee payable on the date of such reduction or termination of the
Commitments or such Revolving Termination Date shall be deemed to be equal to
the Projected Market Value of the Qualifying Collateral for the Collateral
Period in which such date occurs (the "Relevant Calendar Quarter") and shall be
                                       -------------------------               
redetermined (x) in the case of a reduction of the Commitments, as of the fifth
Business Day of the immediately succeeding Collateral Period on the basis of the
Lowest Quarterly Market Value for the Relevant Calendar Quarter and (y) in the
case of the termination of the Commitments, on the date of such termination on
the basis of the Lowest Quarterly Market Value for the period during the
Relevant 

                                       38
<PAGE>
 
Calendar Quarter prior to the date of termination of the Commitments. If such
redetermination shall indicate that the Company paid a lower accrued facility
fee in respect of the date of such reduction or termination of the Commitments
or such Revolving Termination Date than was due, the Company shall, within five
Business Days after such redetermination is made, pay to the Agent, for
distribution to the Banks, an additional amount equal to the deficit. If such
redetermination shall indicate that the Company paid a higher accrued facility
fee in respect of such date than was due, any such excess payment shall be
credited to future facility fee payments payable to those Banks that received
overpayments thereof or shall be refunded by the Banks to the Company in the
case of an overpayment in respect of the Revolving Termination Date.

     2.10  Computation of Fees and Interest.  (a) All computations of interest
           --------------------------------                                    
for Canadian Prime Rate Loans, Drafts and Bankers' Acceptances and for Base Rate
Loans when the Base Rate is determined by BofA's "reference rate" shall be made
on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days
elapsed.  All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis
of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more interest being
paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year).  Interest and fees shall
accrue during each period during which interest or such fees are computed from
the first day thereof to the last day thereof.

          (b) Each determination of an interest rate or a Dollar Equivalent by
the Agent or the Canadian Administrative Agent shall be conclusive and binding
on each Borrower and the Banks in the absence of manifest error.

          (c) If any Reference Bank's Commitment terminates (other than on
termination of all the Commitments), or for any reason whatsoever the Reference
Bank ceases to be a Bank hereunder, that Reference Bank shall thereupon cease to
be a Reference Bank, and the Offshore Rate and CD Rate shall be determined on
the basis of the rates as notified by the remaining Reference Banks.

          (d) Each Reference Bank shall use its best efforts to furnish
quotations of rates to the Agent as contemplated hereby.  If any of the
Reference Banks fails to supply such rates to the Agent upon its request, the
rate of interest shall be determined on the basis of the quotations of the
remaining Reference Banks.

          (e) For purposes of disclosure pursuant to the Interest Act (Canada),
the parties hereto acknowledge that:

          (i) The nominal yearly rate of interest to which any rate of interest
     based on the Offshore Rate or the Canadian Prime Rate is equivalent may be
     determined by multiplying the rate otherwise determined hereunder by a
     fraction, the 

                                       39
<PAGE>
 
     numerator of which is the number of days in the calendar year in which the
     period for which interest at such rate is payable under this Agreement and
     the denominator of which is 360;

         (ii) The nominal yearly discount rate to which the Effective Discount
     Rate is equivalent may be determined by multiplying the rate otherwise
     determined hereunder by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of
     days in the calendar year in which the Average Effective Discount Rate is
     applied in respect of any Drafts or Bankers' Acceptances issued under this
     Agreement and the denominator of which is 365.

          All calculations of interest or discount hereunder shall be made on
the basis of the nominal rates of interest or discount determined hereunder and
the parties agree that the principle of deemed reinvestment shall not apply.

          The parties hereto acknowledge that there is a material distinction
between nominal and effective rates of interest or discount and that they are
capable of making the calculations necessary to calculate and compare such
rates.  The parties hereto further acknowledge that any rate expressed in the
definitions of Offshore Rate and Canadian Prime Rate shall be deemed to be
expressed therein as a nominal rate "per annum."

     2.11  Payments by the Borrowers.  (a) All payments to be made by each
           -------------------------
Borrower shall be made without set-off, recoupment or counterclaim.  Except as
otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Company shall be made
to the Agent for the account of the Tranche A Banks or the Tranche B Domestic
Banks, as the case may be, at the Agent's Payment Office, and all payments by
Medis shall be made to the Canadian Administrative Agent for the account of the
Tranche B Canadian Banks at the Canadian Administrative Agent's Payment Office,
and, with respect to principal of, interest on, and any other amounts relating
to, any Tranche B Canadian Loan or the Bankers' Acceptance Facility, shall be
made in Canadian Dollars, and, with respect to all other amounts payable
hereunder, shall be made in Dollars.  Such payments shall be made in immediately
available funds, and (i) in the case of Tranche B Canadian Loan payments, no
later than 12:00 noon (Toronto time) on the dates specified herein, and (ii) in
the case of any Dollar payments, no later than 12:00 noon (San Francisco time)
on the date specified herein.  The Applicable Agent will promptly distribute to
each Tranche A Bank, Tranche B Domestic Bank or Tranche B Canadian Bank, as
applicable, its Tranche A Pro Rata Share or Tranche B Pro Rata Share, as
applicable, (or other applicable share as expressly provided herein) of such
payment in like funds as received.  Any payment received by the Agent later than
12:00 noon (San Francisco time), or by the Canadian Administrative Agent later
than 12:00 noon (Toronto time) shall 

                                       40
<PAGE>
 
be deemed to have been received on the following Business Day and any applicable
interest or fee shall continue to accrue.

          (b) Subject to the provisions set forth in the definition of "Interest
Period" herein, whenever any payment is due on a day other than a Business Day,
such payment shall be made on the following Business Day, and such extension of
time shall in such case be included in the computation of interest or fees, as
the case may be.

          (c) Unless the Applicable Agent receives notice from a Borrower prior
to the date on which any payment is due to the Banks that such Borrower will not
make such payment in full as and when required, the Applicable Agent may assume
that such Borrower has made such payment in full to the Applicable Agent on such
date in immediately available funds and the Applicable Agent may (but shall not
be so required), in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to each Bank on
such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Bank.  If and to the
extent such Borrower has not made such payment in full to the Applicable Agent,
each Bank shall repay to the Applicable Agent on demand such amount distributed
to such Bank, together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Rate or, in
the case of a payment in Canadian Dollars, the Canadian Overnight Rate, for each
day from the date such amount is distributed to such Bank until the date repaid.

     2.12  Payments by the Banks to the Applicable Agent.  (a) Unless the
           ---------------------------------------------
Applicable Agent receives notice from a Bank at least one Business Day prior to
the date of any Borrowing, that such Bank will not make available as and when
required hereunder to the Applicable Agent for the account of the applicable
Borrower the amount of that Bank's Tranche A Pro Rata Share or Tranche B Pro
Rata Share, as applicable, of the Borrowing, the Applicable Agent may assume
that each Bank has made such amount available to the Applicable Agent in
immediately available funds on the Borrowing Date and the Applicable Agent may
(but shall not be so required), in reliance upon such assumption, make available
to such Borrower on such date a corresponding amount.  If and to the extent any
Bank shall not have made its full amount available to the Applicable Agent in
immediately available funds and the Applicable Agent in such circumstances has
made available to the applicable Borrower such amount, that Bank shall on the
Business Day following such Borrowing Date make such amount available to the
Applicable Agent, together with interest at the Federal Funds Rate or, in the
case of any Borrowing consisting of Tranche B Canadian Loans or under the
Bankers' Acceptance Facility, the Overnight Canadian Rate, for each day during
such period.  A notice of the Applicable Agent submitted to any Bank with
respect to amounts owing under this subsection (a) shall be conclusive, absent
manifest error.  If such amount is so made available, such payment to the
Applicable Agent shall constitute such Bank's Loan on the date of Borrowing for
all purposes of this Agreement.  If such amount is not made 

                                       41
<PAGE>
 
available to the Applicable Agent on the Business Day following the Borrowing
Date, the Applicable Agent will notify the applicable Borrower of such failure
to fund and, upon demand by the Applicable Agent, such Borrower shall pay such
amount to the Applicable Agent for the Applicable Agent's account, together with
interest thereon for each day elapsed since the date of such Borrowing, at a
rate per annum equal to the interest rate applicable at the time to the Loans
comprising such Borrowing.

          (b) The failure of any Bank to make any Loan on any Borrowing Date
shall not relieve any other Bank of any obligation hereunder to make a Loan on
such Borrowing Date, but no Bank shall be responsible for the failure of any
other Bank to make the Loan to be made by such other Bank on any Borrowing Date.

     2.13  Sharing of Payments, Etc.   (a) If, other than as expressly provided
           -------------------------                                          
elsewhere herein, any Tranche A Bank or Tranche B Bank, as the case may be,
shall obtain on account of the Loans made by it to any Borrower or the Bankers'
Acceptances Facility any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the
exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) in excess of its Tranche A Pro
Rata Share or Tranche B Pro Rata Share, as applicable, such Bank shall
immediately (a) notify the Applicable Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase from
the other Tranche A Banks or Tranche B Banks such participations in the Loans
made by them to such Borrower or Bankers' Acceptances as shall be necessary to
cause such purchasing Bank to share the excess payment pro rata with each of
them; provided, however, that if all or any portion of such excess payment is
      --------  -------                                                      
thereafter recovered from the purchasing Bank, such purchase shall to that
extent be rescinded and each other Tranche A Bank or Tranche B Bank, as
applicable, shall repay to the purchasing Bank the purchase price paid therefor,
together with an amount equal to such paying Bank's ratable share (according to
the proportion of (i) the amount of such paying Bank's required repayment to
(ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Bank) of any interest or
other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Bank in respect of the total
amount so recovered; provided further that, for purposes of this subsection
2.13(a), no Bank other than a Tranche B Canadian Bank may purchase any portion
of or any interest in a Tranche B Canadian Loan or Bankers' Acceptances and no
Bank other than a Tranche B Domestic Bank may purchase any portion of or any
interest in a Tranche B Domestic Loan and no Bank other than a Tranche A Bank
may purchase any portion of or any interest in a Tranche A Loan.  Each Borrower
agrees that any Bank so purchasing a participation from another Bank may, to the
fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including
the right of set-off, but subject to Section 10.10) with respect to such
participation as fully as if such Bank were the direct creditor of such Borrower
in the amount of such participation.  The Applicable Agent will keep records
(which shall be conclusive and binding in the absence of manifest error) of
participations purchased under 

                                       42
<PAGE>
 
this Section and will in each case notify the Banks following any such purchases
or repayments. For purposes of this Section 2.13(a), each Bank that has an
Affiliate Bank and such Bank's Affiliate Bank shall be deemed to be a single
Bank and such Bank shall not purchase a participation in the Loans made by its
Affiliate Bank and such Bank's Affiliate Bank shall not purchase a participation
in the Loans made by its Affiliate Bank.

          (b) (1) In the event that there has occurred and is continuing (i)
any Event of Default under subsections 8.01(a), 8.01(f) or 8.01(g) or (ii) an
acceleration of the maturity of any amounts owing to the Banks under this
Agreement, a reallocation of the outstanding Loans (and accrued but unpaid
interest thereon) and any outstanding Bankers' Acceptances that have not been
paid, the Bankers' Acceptance Facility, the Tranche A Commitments and the
Tranche B Commitments shall occur such that each Bank's Pro Rata Share of the
aggregate amount of the outstanding Loans (and accrued but unpaid interest
thereon), outstanding Bankers's Acceptances that have not been paid, Bankers'
Acceptances Facility, Tranche A Commitments and Tranche B Commitments shall
equal the percentage obtained by dividing (x) such Bank's Exposure as of the
date of notification by (y) the sum of aggregate amount of Exposures of all
Banks;

          (2) such reallocation of Loans (and interest), Bankers' Acceptances
and Commitments shall be deemed to be an assignment of such Loans, Bankers'
Acceptances and Commitments among the Banks pursuant to Section 10.08, and each
Bank shall execute and deliver Assignments and Acceptances (as required) to give
effect to such reallocation, and payments shall be made on any Loans or Bankers
Acceptances deemed so assigned as contemplated by Section 4 of the applicable
Assignment and Acceptance; provided that no consent of any Borrower or Agent
shall be requested under Section 10.08 or otherwise in connection with such
reallocation and that such reallocation shall be deemed to have accrued whether
or not any Assignment and Acceptance is delivered;

          (3) each Bank shall identify its applicable lending office which will
be deemed to have purchased the Loans, Bankers' Acceptances and Commitments
reallocated and deemed assigned above;

          (4) for the purpose of minimizing any withholding taxes, such
reallocation of Loans, Bankers' Acceptances and Commitments and any purchase of
participations pursuant to paragraph 2.13(c) shall be made to avoid, to the
maximum extent possible, (i) the reallocation of Tranche B Canadian Loans or
Bankers' Acceptances to Tranche A Banks or Tranche B Domestic Banks, (ii) the
reallocation of Tranche B Domestic Loans to Tranche A Banks or Tranche B
Canadian Banks and (iii) the reallocation of Tranche A Loans to Tranche B
Domestic Banks or Tranche B Canadian Banks; provided that if a reallocation
referred to in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) shall be required in 

                                       43
<PAGE>
 
accordance with this subsection 2.13(b), to the maximum extent possible, Tranche
A Loans shall be allocated to Tranche B Domestic Banks before they are
reallocated to Tranche B Canadian Banks and Tranche B Domestic Loans shall be
reallocated to Tranche A Banks before they are reallocated to Tranche B Canadian
Banks; and

          (5) for purposes of determining such reallocation, the Agent shall
determine the Dollar Equivalent of all outstanding Loans and Banker's
Acceptances denominated in Canadian Dollars.

          (c) In addition to the agreements set forth in paragraph (a) above,
the Banks each agree among themselves that if the reallocation set forth in
subsection 2.13(b) shall occur, if any of them shall, through the exercise of
the right of counterclaim, set-off, banker's lien, collection or other remedy by
Agent or otherwise, including the enforcement of rights under this Agreement, or
as adequate protection of a deposit treated as cash collateral under the
Bankruptcy Code, receive payment or reduction of a proportion of the aggregate
amount of principal and interest then due with respect to the Loans, amounts
payable in respect of such Bank's right to receive reimbursement from the
Company or Medis in respect of amounts due under or in respect of the Bankers'
Acceptance Facility (collectively, the "Aggregate Amounts Owing" to such Bank)
which is greater than the proportionate reduction of the Aggregate Amounts Owing
to any other Bank, then the Bank receiving such proportionately greater payment
shall (y) notify each other Bank and the Agent of such receipt and (z) purchase
participations (which it shall be deemed to have done simultaneously upon
receipt of any such payment) in the Aggregate Amounts Owing to the other Banks
as necessary to assure that all such recoveries and payments in respect of the
Aggregate Amounts Owing shall be ratably shared by all of the Banks as
reallocated pursuant to paragraph (b) above; provided, however, that if all or
                                             --------  -------                
part of such proportionately greater payment received by such purchasing Bank is
thereafter recovered from such Bank, those purchases shall be rescinded and the
purchase prices paid for such participations shall be returned to that Bank to
the extent of such recovery, but without interest.

     2.14  Collateral Pledge.  The Company shall have the right on the Closing
           -----------------                                                  
Date to Collateralize all or any portion of the Commitments or each Borrower's
Obligations hereunder.

     2.15  Utilization of Tranche B Commitments in Canadian Dollars.  (a) The
           --------------------------------------------------------            
Agent will determine the Dollar Equivalent amount with respect to any (i)
Borrowing comprised of Tranche B Canadian Loans that are Offshore Rate Loans as
of the date which is three Business Days prior to the requested Borrowing Date,
(ii) Bankers' Acceptance or Borrowing comprised of Tranche B Canadian Loans that
are Canadian Prime Rate Loans, one day prior to the requested Borrowing Date or
date of acceptance, (iii) 

                                       44
<PAGE>
 
outstanding Tranche B Canadian Loans or Bankers' Acceptances as of the last
Business Day of each month, (iv) conversions to or continuation of Tranche B
Canadian Loans as of the date the related Notice of Conversion/Continuation is
received by the Canadian Administrative Agent, and (v) outstanding Tranche B
Canadian Loans or Bankers' Acceptances as of any redenomination date pursuant to
this Section 2.15 or Section 3.05 (each such date under clauses (i) through (v)
a "Computation Date").
   ----------------   

          (b) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, during the
existence of a Default or an Event of Default, upon the request of the Majority
Banks, all or any part of any outstanding Tranche B Canadian Loans consisting of
Offshore Rate Loans shall be converted into Canadian Prime Rate Loans with
effect from the last day of the Interest Period with respect to any such Tranche
B Canadian Loans.  The Agent will promptly notify the Company and Medis of any
such conversion request.

     2.16  Currency Exchange Fluctuations.  Subject to Section 3.04, if on any
           ------------------------------                                     
Computation Date the Agent or the Canadian Administrative Agent shall have
determined that the Total Utilization of Tranche B Commitments exceeds the
combined Tranche B Commitments of the Tranche B Banks by more than $500,000, due
to a change in applicable rates of exchange between Dollars and Canadian
Dollars, then the Agent shall give notice to the Borrowers that a prepayment is
         ----                                                                  
required under this Section, and the Borrowers agree thereupon to make
prepayments of Loans such that, after giving effect to such prepayment the Total
Utilization of Tranche B Commitments does not exceed the combined Tranche B
Commitments.

     2.17  Bankers' Acceptances for Medis
           ------------------------------

          (a) Acceptance Commitment.  (1) Each Tranche B Canadian Bank severally
agrees, on and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein: (i) in the
case of a Tranche B Canadian Bank that is able to accept Drafts from Medis, to
create acceptances (each, a "Bankers' Acceptance") by accepting Drafts from
Medis and to purchase such Bankers' Acceptances in accordance with Section
2.17(d); and (ii) in the case of a Tranche B Canadian Bank that has participated
all or any part of its interest in the Bankers' Acceptance Facilities to a
participant which is able to accept Drafts from Medis, to arrange for the
creation of Bankers' Acceptances by such participant and for the purchase of
such Bankers' Acceptances by such participant, to the extent of such
participation or assignment, in accordance with Section 2.17(d). The Total
Utilization of Tranche B Commitments after any Drawing shall not exceed the
combined Tranche B Commitments then in effect.

               (2) Each Drawing shall be in an aggregate Face Amount of not less
     than Cdn.$5,000,000 and in integral multiples of Cdn.$1,000,000 and shall
     consist of the creation and purchase of Bankers' Acceptances or the

                                       45
<PAGE>
 
     purchase of Drafts on the same day, effected or arranged by the Tranche B
     Banks in accordance with Section 2.17(d), ratably according to their
     respective Tranche B Pro Rata Shares.

               (3) Anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary
     notwithstanding, the Bankers' Acceptance Facility and the Tranche B Loan
     Commitment shall be subject to the following limitations:

                    (i) The amount otherwise available for Drawing under the
          Tranche B Commitment as of any time of determination shall be reduced
          by an amount equal to the sum of the outstanding Tranche B Loans as of
          such time of determination; and

                   (ii) The Total Utilization of Tranche B Commitments shall not
          exceed the Tranche B Commitments then in effect.

          (b) Drawing Notice.  (1) Each Drawing shall be made on two Business
Days' prior written notice specified in relation to Bankers' Acceptances, given
not later than 11:00 a.m. (Toronto time), by the Company and Medis to the Agent.
Each such notice of a Drawing (a "Drawing Notice") shall be given in
substantially the form of Exhibit G annexed hereto or by telephone confirmed
promptly in writing, containing the same information as would be contained in a
Drawing Notice, and shall specify therein (i) the Drawing Date; (ii) the
aggregate Face Amount of Drafts to be accepted; and (iii) the maturity date for
such Drafts.  The Canadian Administrative Agent shall give each Tranche B
Canadian Bank prompt notice of such Drawing Notice and of such Tranche B
Canadian Bank's ratable portion of Drafts to be accepted under the Drawing.

               (2) Medis shall not request in a Drawing Notice a maturity date
     for Drafts which would be subsequent to the Revolving Termination Date.

               (3) Each Drawing Notice shall be irrevocable and binding on Medis
     and the Company.  Medis and the Company shall indemnify each Tranche B
     Canadian Bank against any loss or expense incurred by such Tranche B
     Canadian Bank as a result of any failure by Medis to fulfill or honor
     before the date specified for any Drawing, the applicable conditions set
     forth in this Section 2.17 or Section 4.03, if the Drawing, as a result of
     such failure, is not made on such date.

               (4) Medis shall repay, and there shall become due and payable, on
     the Drawing Date the principal amount of any Tranche B Canadian Loans which
     Medis seeks to convert, if any, in whole or in part, to Bankers'
     Acceptances on such Drawing Date.

                                       46
<PAGE>
 
               (5) None of the Canadian Administrative Agent, the Agent or the
     Tranche B Canadian Banks shall incur any liability to Medis or the Company
     in acting on the telephonic notice referred to above which the Canadian
     Administrative Agent, the Agent or any Tranche B Canadian Bank believes in
     good faith to have been given by a duly authorized officer or other person
     authorized to borrow on behalf of Medis or for otherwise acting in good
     faith under this Section 2.17 and upon the acceptance of Drafts or Bankers'
     Acceptances pursuant to any such telephonic notice, Medis shall be liable
     with respect thereto as provided herein.  In the event of a conflict
     between the Canadian Administrative Agent's record of the applicable terms
     of any Drawing and such Drawing Notice, Canadian Administrative Agent's
     record shall prevail, absent manifest or demonstrable error.

          (c) Form of Bankers' Acceptances .  (1) Each Draft presented by Medis
shall (i) be in a minimum denomination of Cdn $150,000, (ii) be dated the date
of the Drawing; (iii) mature and be payable by Medis (in common with all other
Drafts presented in connection with such Drawing) on a Business Day which occurs
approximately 30, 60, 90, 120 or 180 days after the date thereof; and (iv) be
substantially in the form of Exhibit H-1 annexed hereto.  The acceptance
endorsed by a Tranche B Canadian Bank on any Draft shall be substantially in the
form of Exhibit H-2 annexed hereto or such other form as may be agreed by Medis
and such Tranche B Canadian Bank.

               (2) Medis hereby renounces, and shall not claim, any days of
     grace for the payment of any Bankers' Acceptances or Drafts.

          (d) Acceptance and Purchase of Drafts .  (1) Not later than 11:00 a.m.
(Toronto time) on an applicable Drawing Date, each Tranche B Canadian Bank
shall, as the case may be, (i) complete one or more Drafts dated the date of
such Drawing, with the maturity date specified by the Company and Medis in the
Drawing Notice, accept such Drafts, and purchase the Bankers' Acceptances
thereby created for the Drawing Purchase Price; and (ii) arrange for its
participant to complete one or more Drafts dated the date of such Drawing, with
the maturity date specified by Medis and the Company in the Drawing Notice, to
accept such Drafts and to purchase the Bankers' Acceptances thereby created for
the Drawing Purchase Price.

               (2) The failure of any Tranche B Canadian Bank to accept Drafts
     or purchase Bankers' Acceptances or Drafts as part of any Drawing shall not
     relieve such Tranche B Canadian Bank of its obligation, if any, to accept
     Drafts and purchase Bankers' Acceptances or Drafts hereunder, but a Tranche
     B Canadian Bank shall not be responsible for the failure of any other
     Tranche B Canadian Bank to accept 

                                       47
<PAGE>
 
     Drafts or purchase Bankers' Acceptance or Drafts on the Drawing Date for
     any Drawing.

          (e) Payment of Drawing Purchase Price.  (1) Subject to Section
2.17(b)(4), each Tranche B Canadian Bank shall, before 12:00 noon (Toronto time)
on the applicable Drawing Date, pay or cause to be paid, the Drawing Purchase
Price in respect of any Bankers' Acceptances which such Tranche B Canadian Bank
has purchased or arranged to have purchased pursuant to Section 2.17(d)(1) by
depositing or causing to be deposited such amount to such account maintained by
the Canadian Administrative Agent at BofA Canada as shall have been notified to
such Tranche B Canadian Bank by the Canadian Administrative Agent, in Canadian
Dollars in same day funds. Promptly upon receipt of such funds, the Canadian
Administrative Agent shall make such funds available to Medis by debiting such
account (or causing such account to be debited), and by crediting Medis'
account, as to which Medis shall have notified the Canadian Administrative Agent
prior thereto, maintained by the Canadian Administrative Agent at BofA Canada
with like funds in the aggregate amount of such funds.

               (2) Bankers' Acceptances purchased by a Tranche B Canadian Bank
     or its participant hereunder may be held by such Tranche B Canadian Bank or
     such participant, as the case may be, for its own account until maturity or
     sold by it at any time prior thereto in any relevant market therefor in
     Canada, in such Tranche B Bank's or its participant's sole discretion.

          (f) Effective Discount Rate Determination.  The Canadian
Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Company and Medis of the
Effective Discount Rate and the Drawing Fee Rate determined by the Canadian
Administrative Agent for an applicable Drawing Date. Promptly upon request of
either Borrower, the Canadian Administrative Agent shall provide such Borrower
an indicative Effective Discount Rate, which rate shall not be binding on the
Canadian Administrative Agent, the Agent or the Banks for purposes of any
Drawing or acceptance of Drafts.

          (g) Payment at Maturity.  (1) Medis shall pay to the Canadian
Administrative Agent, and there shall become due and payable, at 12:00 noon
(Toronto time) on the maturity date for each Bankers' Acceptance or Draft an
amount in Canadian Dollars in same day funds equal to the Face Amount of such
Bankers' Acceptance or Draft.  Medis shall make each payment hereunder in
respect of Bankers' Acceptances or Drafts by deposit of the required funds to
the Canadian Administrative Agent at the Canada Administrative Agent's Payment
Office.  Upon receipt of such payment, the Canadian Administrative Agent will
promptly thereafter cause such payment to be distributed in like funds in
payment of Bankers' Acceptances and Drafts ratably (based on the proportion that
the aggregate Face Amount of Bankers' 

                                       48
<PAGE>
 
Acceptances held by any Tranche B Canadian Bank or any participant thereof
maturing on the relevant date bears to the aggregate Face Amount of Bankers'
Acceptances accepted or held by all Tranche B Canadian Banks or any participants
or assignees thereof maturing on such date) to Tranche B Canadian Banks for
their account and for the account of any participant, to the extent of and in
accordance with their participation. Such payment to the Canadian Administrative
Agent shall satisfy Medis' obligations under any Bankers' Acceptances to which
it relates and each Tranche B Canadian Bank that has accepted such Bankers'
Acceptances shall thereafter be solely responsible for the payment of such
Bankers' Acceptances.

               (2) If Medis fails to pay any Bankers' Acceptance when due, or to
     convert or renew the Face Amount of such Bankers' Acceptance pursuant to
     Section 2.17(i), the unpaid amount due and payable in respect thereof shall
     be converted as of such date, and without any necessity for Medis to give a
     Notice of Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03, to, and thereafter be
     outstanding as, a Canadian Prime Rate Loan made by, Tranche B Canadian
     Banks and shall bear interest calculated and payable as provided in Section
     2.08.

          (h) Presigned Draft Forms.  To enable the Tranche B Banks to create
Bankers' Acceptances or complete Drafts in the manner specified in this Section
2.17,  Medis shall supply each Tranche B Canadian Bank with such number of
Drafts as such Tranche B Canadian Bank may reasonably request, duly endorsed and
executed on behalf of Medis by any one or more of its authorized officers.  Each
Tranche B Canadian Bank shall exercise such care in the custody and safekeeping
of Drafts as it would exercise in the custody and safekeeping of similar
property owned by it.  Each Tranche B Canadian Bank will, upon request by Medis,
promptly advise Medis of the number and designations, if any, of the uncompleted
Drafts then held by it.  The signatures of such officers may be mechanically
reproduced in facsimile and Drafts and Bankers' Acceptances bearing such
facsimile signatures shall be binding upon Medis as if they had been manually
signed by such officers.  Notwithstanding that any of the individuals whose
manual or facsimile signature appears on any Draft or Bankers' Acceptance as one
of such officers may no longer hold office at the date thereof or at the date of
its acceptance by a Tranche B Canadian Bank or a participant hereunder or at any
time thereafter, any Draft or Bankers' Acceptance so signed shall be valid and
binding upon Medis.

          (i) Conversion or Renewal of Bankers' Acceptances .  Upon the maturity
of a Bankers' Acceptance, the Company and Medis may elect to (i) renew such
Bankers' Acceptance, by giving a Drawing Notice in accordance with Section
2.17(b)(1); or (ii) have all or a portion of the Face Amount of such Bankers'
Acceptance converted to an Offshore Rate Loan or Canadian Prime Rate Loan, by
giving a Notice of Borrowing in accordance with 

                                       49
<PAGE>
 
Section 2.03.  If the Bankers' Acceptances to be converted cannot be converted
into an Offshore Rate Loan or Canadian Prime Rate Loan in an aggregate amount
which may be made as an Offshore Rate Loan or Canadian Prime Rate Loan, as the
case may be, under this Agreement, then the amount which cannot be so converted
shall be repaid to the Canadian Administrative Agent for distribution to the
Tranche B Canadian Banks in accordance with Section 2.17(g) on the date of such
conversion.

          (j) Circumstances Making Bankers' Acceptances Unavailable.

               (1) If the Canadian Administrative Agent determines in good
     faith, which determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon
     Medis and the Company, and notifies Medis that, by reason of circumstances
     affecting the money market (i) there is no market for Bankers' Acceptances;
     or (ii) the demand for Bankers' Acceptances is insufficient to allow the
     sale or trading of the Bankers' Acceptances created and purchased
     hereunder; then,

                    (i) the right of the Company and Medis to request a Drawing
          shall be suspended until the Canadian Administrative Agent determines
          that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist and the
          Canadian Administrative Agent so notifies Medis; and

                   (ii) any Drawing Notice which is outstanding shall be
          cancelled and the Drawing requested therein shall not be made.

               (2) The Canadian Administrative Agent shall promptly notify Medis
     and the Agent of the suspension of Medis' right to request a Drawing and of
     the termination of any such suspension.

          (k) Prepayments.  Except as required or permitted by Article VIII or
Section 2.07, no repayment of a Bankers' Acceptance shall be made by Medis to a
Tranche B Canadian Bank prior to the maturity date thereof.  Any such repayment,
made as required by Article VIII or Section 2.07, shall be made (unless such
repayment has been rescinded or otherwise is required to be returned by such
Tranche B Canadian Bank to Medis for any reason) in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.17(g)(1).  Any such payment by Medis to the Canadian
Administrative Agent shall satisfy Medis' obligations under the Bankers'
Acceptance to which it relates and, in the case of a Bankers' Acceptance which
has been accepted by a Tranche B Canadian Bank or its participant, such Tranche
B Canadian Bank or such participant shall thereafter be solely responsible for
the payment of such Bankers' Acceptance and shall indemnify and hold Medis
harmless against any liabilities, costs or expenses incurred by Medis as 

                                       50
<PAGE>
 
a result of any failure by such Tranche B Canadian Bank or such participant to
pay such Bankers' Acceptance in accordance with its terms.


                                  ARTICLE III

                    TAXES, YIELD PROTECTION AND ILLEGALITY
                    --------------------------------------

     3.01  Taxes.  (a) Any and all payments by each Borrower to each Bank or
           -----                                                             
the Applicable Agent under this Agreement and any other Loan Document shall be
made free and clear of, and without deduction or withholding for any Taxes.  In
addition, Borrowers jointly and severally shall pay all Other Taxes.

          (b) Each Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Bank and
each of the Agents for the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including any
Taxes or Other Taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this
Section) paid by the Bank or any of the Agents and any liability (including
penalties, interest, additions to tax and expenses) arising therefrom or with
respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or
legally asserted.  Payment under this indemnification shall be made within 30
days after the date the Bank or such of the Agents makes written demand
therefor.

          (c) If any Borrower shall be required by law to deduct or withhold any
Taxes or Other Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder to any Bank
or any of the Agents, then:

               (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after
     making all required deductions and withholdings (including deductions and
     withholdings applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) such
     Bank or such of the Agents, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to
     the sum it would have received had no such deductions or withholdings been
     made;

              (ii) such Borrower shall make such deductions and withholdings;
     and

             (iii) such Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted or withheld
     to the relevant taxing authority or other authority in accordance with
     applicable law; and

              (iv) such Borrower shall also pay to such Bank or Agent at the
     time the sum payable is paid, all additional amounts which the Bank or
     Agent specifies as necessary to preserve the after-tax yield the Bank or
     Agent would have received if such Taxes or Other Taxes had not been
     imposed.

          (d) Within 30 days after the date of any payment by a Borrower of
Taxes or Other Taxes, such Borrower shall furnish 

                                       51
<PAGE>
 
the Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing payment
thereof, or other evidence of payment satisfactory to the Agent.

          (e) If a Borrower is required to pay additional amounts to any Bank or
any of the Agents pursuant to this Section 3.01, then such Bank shall use
reasonable efforts (consistent with legal and regulatory restrictions) to take
such actions as are necessary to minimize such Borrower's obligations under this
Article III, including without limitation, changing the jurisdiction of its
Lending Office so as to eliminate any such additional payment by such Borrower
which may thereafter accrue, if such actions in the sole judgment of such Bank
are not otherwise disadvantageous to such Bank.

          (f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 3.01,
neither Borrower shall be required to compensate an Assignee or Participant of a
Loan or Bankers' Acceptance for withholding taxes, if at the time of such
assignment (i) the assigning Bank was not subject to withholding taxes in
respect of any amount in respect of the Loans or Bankers' Acceptances and (ii)
the Assignee or Participant was subject to withholding taxes at the time of such
assignment in respect of such amount.  In addition, notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in this Section 3.01, in no event shall any Borrower be required to
compensate a Bank or a participant of a Bankers' Acceptance as contemplated in
subsection 2.17 for withholding taxes under this Section 3.01 if such
withholding tax results from a participation as contemplated in subsection 2.17.

          (g) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the
Borrowers hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrowers contained
in this Section 3.02 shall survive the payment in full of principal and interest
hereunder and under any instrument delivered hereunder.

     3.02  Illegality.  (a) If any Bank determines that the introduction of any
           ----------                                                       
Requirement of Law, or any change in any Requirement of Law, or in the
interpretation or administration of any Requirement of Law, has made it
unlawful, or that any central bank or other Governmental Authority has asserted
that it is unlawful, for any Bank or its applicable Lending Office to make
Offshore Rate Loans (including Offshore Rate Loans in Canadian Dollars), then,
on notice thereof by the Bank to the Borrowers through the Agent, any obligation
of that Bank to make Offshore Rate Loans shall be suspended until the Bank
notifies the Agent and the Borrowers that the circumstances giving rise to such
determination no longer exist.

          (b) If a Bank determines that it is unlawful to maintain any Offshore
Rate Loan, the applicable Borrower shall, upon its receipt of notice of such
fact and demand from such Bank (with a copy to the Agent), either, (A)(i) in the
case of the Company, convert in full such Offshore Rate Loans into Loans 

                                       52
<PAGE>
 
of another Type and (ii) in the case of Tranche B Canadian Loans to Medis,
convert in full such Offshore Rate Loans into Canadian Prime Rate Loans or (B)
prepay in full such Offshore Rate Loans of that Bank then outstanding, together
with interest accrued thereon (in the case of a prepayment) and amounts required
under Section 3.04, either on the last day of the Interest Period thereof, if
the Bank may lawfully continue to maintain such Offshore Rate Loans to such day,
or immediately, if the Bank may not lawfully continue to maintain such Offshore
Rate Loan. If the applicable Borrower prepays any Offshore Rate Loan as provided
in the preceding sentence, then concurrently with such prepayment, such Borrower
shall borrow from the affected Bank, in the amount of such repayment, (i) a Base
Rate Loan in the case of the Company and (ii) a Canadian Prime Rate Loan, in the
case of Medis.

     3.03  Increased Costs and Reduction of Return.  (a) If any Bank determines
           ---------------------------------------                  
that, due to either (i) the introduction of or any change in or in the
interpretation of any law or regulation (other than any change by way of
imposition of or increase in reserve requirements included in the calculation of
the CD Rate or the Offshore Rate or in respect of the assessment rate payable by
any Bank to the FDIC for insuring U.S. deposits or any change introduced prior
to the Closing Date) or (ii) the compliance by that Bank with any guideline or
request from any central bank or other Governmental Authority (whether or not
having the force of law) (other than any guideline or request introduced prior
to the Closing Date), there shall be any increase in the cost to such Bank of
agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining any Offshore Rate Loans or CD
Rate Loans, then the applicable Borrower shall be liable for, and shall from
time to time, upon demand (with a copy of such demand to be sent to the Agent),
pay to the Applicable Agent for the account of such Bank, additional amounts as
are sufficient to compensate such Bank for such increased costs; provided that
                                                                 --------     
no Bank shall be entitled to obtain compensation with respect to any period
prior to six (6) months prior to making such demand.

          (b) If the introduction of or any change (including, without
limitation, any change by way of imposition or increase of reserve requirements,
in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation, or the compliance with any
guideline or request imposed or made from any central bank or other governmental
authority or quasi-governmental authority exercising control over banks or
financial institutions generally (whether or not having the force of law) any
reserve (including, without limitation, any reserve requirement imposed under
the Bank Act (Canada) or the Regulations thereunder), special deposit or similar
requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit
extended by, any Tranche B Canadian Bank's applicable lending office shall be
imposed or deemed applicable or any other condition affecting Drafts or Bankers'
Acceptances or such Tranche B Canadian Bank's obligation to accept Drafts shall
be imposed on such Tranche B Canadian Bank or its 

                                       53
<PAGE>
 
applicable lending office, in any such case after the Closing Date; and, as a
result thereof, there shall be any increase in the cost to such Tranche B
Canadian Bank of agreeing to accept or accepting, funding or maintaining Drafts
or Bankers' Acceptances, or there shall be a reduction in the amount received or
receivable by such Tranche B Canadian Bank or its applicable lending office,
then Medis shall from time to time, upon written notice from and demand by such
Tranche B Canadian Bank (with a copy of such notice to the Company, the Canadian
Administrative Agent and the Agent), pay to the Canadian Administrative Agent,
for the account of such Tranche B Canadian Bank, within five Business Days after
the date specified in such notice and demand, additional amounts sufficient to
indemnify such Tranche B Canadian Bank against such increased cost; provided,
                                                                    --------
however, that neither Borrower shall have any liability to a Tranche B Canadian
- -------              
Bank under this Subsection 3.03(b) with respect to the imposition of any
withholding tax to the extent Borrowers are not required to make payments to
such Tranche B Canadian Bank with respect to the imposition of such withholding
tax under Section 3.01; provided further that a Tranche B Canadian Bank shall
                        -------- -------
not be entitled to avail itself of the benefit of this Section 3.03(b) to the
extent that any such increased cost or reduction was incurred more than six
months prior to the time it gives notice to Medis. A certificate as to the
amount of such increased cost submitted to Medis, the Company, the Canadian
Administrative Agent and the Agent by a Tranche B Canadian Bank, shall, except
for manifest or demonstrable error, be final, conclusive and binding for all
purposes.

          (c) If any Bank shall have determined that (i) the introduction of any
Capital Adequacy Regulation, (ii) any change in any Capital Adequacy Regulation,
(iii) any change in the interpretation or administration of any Capital Adequacy
Regulation by any central bank or other Governmental Authority charged with the
interpretation or administration thereof, or (iv) compliance by the Bank (or its
Lending Office) or any corporation controlling the Bank with any Capital
Adequacy Regulation, in any such case, after the Closing Date, affects or would
affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by the Bank
or any corporation controlling the Bank and (taking into consideration such
Bank's or such corporation's policies with respect to capital adequacy and such
Bank's desired return on capital) determines that the amount of such capital is
increased as a consequence of its Commitment, loans, credits or obligations
under this Agreement, then, upon demand of such Bank to the applicable Borrower
through the Applicable Agent, such Borrower shall pay to the Bank, from time to
time as specified by the Bank, additional amounts sufficient to compensate the
Bank for such increase; provided no Bank shall be entitled to receive additional
                        --------                                                
amounts with respect to any period prior to six (6) months prior to making such
demand.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Borrower agrees
that if any Bank shall have determined that (A) any of 

                                       54
<PAGE>
 
the events listed in clauses (i) through (iv) of this subsection have the effect
that assets secured by Collateral pledged from time to time hereunder do not
have a risk category with a risk weight of 20% (where, prior to such
determination, such Collateral constituted Qualifying Collateral) or (B) that
the method provided in the Pledge Agreement for computing the Market Value of
the Qualifying Collateral does not accurately reflect the current market value
of the Qualifying Collateral under any Capital Adequacy Regulation applicable to
such Bank, then, upon demand of such Bank to the Company through the Agent, the
Company shall pay to the Bank, from time to time as specified by the Bank, and
hereunder, as applicable, an amount equal to (1) the difference between (x) the
facility fee set forth in subsection 2.09(b) determined in accordance with
clause (i) of subsection 2.09(b), and (y) such fee determined in accordance with
clause (ii) of subsection 2.09(b), or an amount equal to the difference between
the facility fee set forth in subsection 2.09(b) computed based on the Market
Value of the Qualifying Collateral as computed under the Pledge Agreement and
such fee computed based on the current market value of the Qualifying Collateral
as determined under any Capital Adequacy Regulation applicable to such Bank and
(2) the difference between (x) the interest set forth in subsection 2.08(a)
determined in accordance with clause (i)(A), (ii)(A) or (iii)(A), as applicable,
and (y) such interest determined in accordance with clause (i)(B), (ii)(B) or
(iii)(B), as applicable, of subsection 2.08(a) or an amount equal to the
difference between the interest set forth in subsection 2.08(a) computed based
on the Market Value of the Qualifying Collateral as computed under the Pledge
Agreement and such interest computed based on the current market value of the
Qualifying Collateral as determined under any Capital Adequacy Regulation
applicable to such Bank.

          (d) If any Bank requests compensation from either Borrower under
subsection 3.03(a), 3.03(b) or 3.03(c), the Company shall have the right, with
the assistance of the Agent, to seek one or more Eligible Assignees (which may
be one or more of the Banks) reasonably satisfactory to the Agent and the
Company to purchase the Loans and Bankers' Acceptances and assume the
Commitments of such Bank, and the Borrowers, the Agent, such Bank, and such
Eligible Assignee(s) shall execute and deliver an appropriately completed
Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to Section 10.08 hereof to effect the
assignment of rights to and the assumption of obligations by such Eligible
Assignee(s); provided that such requesting Bank shall be entitled to 
             --------                                               
compensation under Section 3.03 for any costs incurred by it prior to its
replacement.

     3.04  Funding Losses.  Each Borrower shall reimburse each Bank and hold
           --------------                                                   
each Bank harmless from any loss or expense which the Bank may sustain or incur
as a consequence of:

                                       55
<PAGE>
 
          (a) the failure of such Borrower to make on a timely basis any payment
of principal of any Offshore Rate Loan or CD Rate Loan;

          (b) the failure of such Borrower to borrow, continue or convert a Loan
after the Company or the Company and Medis, as the case may be, has given (or is
deemed to have given) a Notice of Borrowing or a Notice of
Conversion/Continuation;

          (c) the failure of such Borrower to make any prepayment in accordance
with any notice delivered under Section 2.06;

          (d) the prepayment or other payment (including after acceleration
thereof) of an Offshore Rate Loan or a CD Rate Loan on a day that is not the
last day of the relevant Interest Period; or

          (e) the automatic conversion under Section 2.04 of any Offshore Rate
Loan or CD Rate Loan to a Base Rate Loan or Canadian Prime Rate Loan on a day
that is not the last day of the relevant Interest Period;

including any such loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment
of funds obtained by such Bank to maintain its Offshore Rate Loans or CD Rate
Loans or from fees payable by such Bank to terminate the deposits from which
such funds were obtained or from charges relating to any Loans.  For purposes of
calculating amounts payable by the Company to the Banks under this Section and
under subsection 3.03(a), (i) each Offshore Rate Loan made by a Bank (and each
related reserve, special deposit or similar requirement) shall be conclusively
deemed to have been funded at the LIBOR used in determining the Offshore Rate
for such Offshore Rate Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the
interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period,
whether or not such Offshore Rate Loan is in fact so funded, and (ii) each CD
Rate Loan made by a Bank (and each related reserve, special deposit or similar
requirement) shall be conclusively deemed to have been funded at the Certificate
of Deposit Rate used in determining the CD Rate for such CD Rate Loan by the
issuance of its certificate of deposit in a comparable amount and for a
comparable period, whether or not such CD Rate Loan is in fact so funded.

     3.05  Inability to Determine Rates .  If the Agent determines that for any
           -----------------------------                                       
reason adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Offshore
Rate or the CD Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed
Offshore Rate Loan or CD Rate Loan, or that the Offshore Rate or the CD Rate
applicable pursuant to subsection 2.08(a) for any requested Interest Period with
respect to a proposed Offshore Rate Loan or CD Rate Loan does not adequately and
fairly reflect the cost to the Banks of funding such Loan, the Agent will
promptly so notify the applicable Borrower and each Bank.  

                                       56
<PAGE>
 
Thereafter, the obligation of the Banks to make or maintain CD Rate Loans or
Offshore Rate Loans, as the case may be, hereunder shall be suspended until the
Agent revokes such notice in writing. Upon receipt of such notice, the
applicable Borrower may revoke any Notice of Borrowing or Notice of
Conversion/Continuation previously submitted by such Borrower. If the applicable
Borrower does not revoke such Notice, the Banks shall make, convert or continue
the Loans, as proposed by such Borrower, in the amount specified in the
applicable notice submitted by the such Borrower, but such Loans shall be made,
converted or continued as (i) Base Rate Loans in the case of Tranche A Loans or
Tranche B Domestic Loans and (ii) Canadian Prime Rate Loans in the case of
Tranche B Canadian Loans instead of CD Rate Loans or Offshore Rate Loans, as the
case may be.

     3.06  Certificates of Banks.  Any Bank claiming reimbursement or 
           ---------------------                                     
compensation under this Article III shall deliver to the Company and the
applicable Borrower (with a copy to the Agent) a certificate setting forth in
reasonable detail the amount payable to the Bank hereunder and such certificate
shall be conclusive and binding on the Company in the absence of manifest error.

     3.07  Survival.  The agreements and obligations of the Borrowers in this
           --------                                                          
Article III shall survive the payment of all other Obligations.


                                  ARTICLE IV

                             CONDITIONS PRECEDENT
                             --------------------

     4.01  Conditions of Initial Loans. The obligation of each Bank to make its
           ---------------------------                                         
initial Loan hereunder is subject to the condition that the Agent have received
on or before the Closing Date all of the following, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Agent and each Bank, and in sufficient copies for each Bank:

          (a) Credit Agreement.  This Agreement executed by each party hereto
              ----------------                                               
and, if requested by any Bank, the Note(s) requested by such Bank executed by
the applicable Borrower;

          (b) Collateral Documents and Guaranty.  The Collateral Documents and
              ---------------------------------                                
the Guaranty executed by each party thereto;

          (c) Resolutions; Incumbency.
              ----------------------- 

               (i) Copies of the resolutions of the board of directors of the
     Company and the Unanimous Shareholder Declaration of Medis authorizing the
     transactions contemplated hereby, certified as of the Closing Date by the
     Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of such Borrower; and

                                       57
<PAGE>
 
              (ii) A certificate of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of each
     Borrower, certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of such
     Borrower authorized to execute, deliver and perform, as applicable, this
     Agreement, and all other Loan Documents to be delivered by it hereunder;

          (d) Organization Documents; Good Standing.  Each of the following
              -------------------------------------                       
documents:

               (i) the articles or certificate of incorporation and the bylaws
     of each Borrower as in effect on the Closing Date, certified by the
     Secretary or Assistant Secretary of such Borrower as of the Closing Date;

              (ii) a good standing and tax good standing certificate for the
     Company from the applicable Secretary of State (or similar, applicable
     Governmental Authority) of the States of Delaware and California, together
     with a bring-down certificate by facsimile, dated the Closing Date; and

             (iii) a certificate of status for Medis from the Ministry of
     Consumer and Commercial Relations (Ontario), dated the Closing Date.

          (e) Legal Opinions.
              -------------- 

               (i) an opinion of Ivan D. Meyerson, Vice President and General
     Counsel of the Company, addressed to the Agent and the Banks, substantially
     in the form of Exhibit D-1; and

              (ii) an opinion of Blake, Cassels & Graydon, Canadian counsel to
     the Company and Medis, substantially in the form of Exhibit D-2.

             (iii) an opinion of Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison, counsel for the
     Company, and addressed to the Agent and Banks, substantially in the form of
     Exhibit D-3, with respect to the types of Qualifying Collateral initially
     pledged by the Company in favor of the Agent as of the Closing Date under
     the Pledge Agreement;

          (f) Payment of Fees.  Evidence of payment by the Company of all
              ---------------                                            
accrued and unpaid fees, costs and expenses to the extent then due and payable
on the Closing Date, together with Attorney Costs of BofA to the extent invoiced
prior to or on the Closing Date, including any such costs, fees and expenses
arising under or referenced in Sections 2.09 and 10.04;

          (g) Company Certificates.  A certificate signed by a Responsible
              --------------------
Officer of Company, dated as of the Closing Date, stating that:

                                       58
<PAGE>
 
               (i) the representations and warranties contained in Article V and
     the other Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of such date, as
     though made on and as of such date;

              (ii) no Default or Event of Default exists or would result from
     the initial Borrowing;

             (iii) there has occurred since March 31, 1994, no event or
     circumstance that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in
     a Material Adverse Effect; and

              (iv) designating the Closing Date;

          (h) Medis Certificate.  A certificate signed by a Responsible Officer
              -----------------                                                
of Medis, dated as of the Closing Date, stating that:

               (i) the representations and warranties of Medis contained in
     Article V are true and correct on and as of the Closing Date, as though
     made on and as of such date;

              (ii) no Default or Event of Default with respect to Medis or any
     of its Subsidiaries exists or would result from the initial Borrowing; and

             (iii) there has occurred since March 31, 1994, no event or
     circumstance with respect to Medis or any of its Subsidiaries that has
     resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse
     Effect;

          (i) Notice of Election.  A Notice of Election of Projected Market
              ------------------                                            
Value for the period from the Closing Date to June 30, 1995;

          (j) UCC Searches.  Certified copies of Requests for Information or
              ------------                                                   
Copies, dated a date reasonably near the Closing Date, listing all effective
financing statements in the State of California which name the Company as
debtor, together with copies of such financing statements;

          (k) Independent Auditor's Letter.  A copy of the Independent Auditor's
              ----------------------------                             
Letter duly executed by Deloitte & Touche;

          (l) Collateral Certificate.  If the Company proposes to pledge
              ----------------------                                    
Collateral of the type described in clause (b) or (c) of the definition of
Qualifying Collateral, a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the
Company to the effect that such Collateral constitutes Collateral of such type
and such other evidence, certificates or opinions as the Agent may, at the
request of any Bank, reasonably request; and

                                       59
<PAGE>
 
          (m) Other Documents.  Such other approvals, opinions, documents or
              ---------------                                               
materials as the Agent or any Bank may reasonably request.

     4.02  Conditions to All Borrowings.  The obligation of each Bank to make
           ----------------------------                                      
any Loan to be made by it (including its initial Loan) or to continue or convert
any Loan under Section 2.04 is subject to the satisfaction of the following
conditions precedent on the relevant Borrowing Date or Conversion/Continuation
Date:

          (a) Notice of Borrowing or Conversion/Continuation.  The Applicable
              ----------------------------------------------                 
Agent shall have received (with, in the case of the initial Loan only, a copy
for each Bank) a Notice of Borrowing or a Notice of Conversion/Continuation, as
applicable;

          (b) Continuation of Representations and Warranties.  The
              ----------------------------------------------      
representations and warranties in Article V and the other Loan Documents shall
be true and correct on and as of such Borrowing Date or Conversion/Continuation
Date with the same effect as if made on and as of such Borrowing Date or
Conversion/Continuation Date (except to the extent such representations and
warranties expressly refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true
and correct as of such earlier date);

          (c) No Existing Default.  No Default or Event of Default shall exist
              -------------------                                             
or shall result from such Borrowing or continuation or conversion; and

          (d) Medis Loans.  In the case of any Loan to be made to Medis, Medis
              -----------                                                     
shall be a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company.

Each Notice of Borrowing and Notice of Conversion/Continuation submitted by the
Company or, in the case of a Canadian Loan, the Company and Medis hereunder
shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Company or, in the case of
a Canadian Loan, by the Company and Medis hereunder, as of the date of each such
notice and as of each Borrowing Date or Conversion/Continuation Date, as
applicable, that the conditions in Section 4.02 are satisfied.

     4.03  Conditions to Bankers' Acceptance Facility.  The obligation of
           ------------------------------------------                    
Tranche B Canadian Banks to accept and discount any Draft or Bankers' Acceptance
is subject to prior or concurrent satisfaction of all of the following
conditions:

          (a) On or before the date of acceptance and discounting of the initial
Draft or Bankers' Acceptance, each of the conditions set forth in Section 4.01
shall have been satisfied.

                                       60
<PAGE>
 
          (b) Each of the conditions to the acceptance and discounting of such
Draft or Bankers' Acceptance set forth in Section 2.17 shall have been
satisfied.

          (c) On the date of acceptance and discounting of such Draft or
Bankers' Acceptance, all conditions precedent described in Section 4.02 (other
than paragraph (a)) shall be satisfied to the same extent as though the
acceptance and discounting of such Draft or Bankers' Acceptance were the making
of a Loan.


                                   ARTICLE V

                        REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
                        ------------------------------

     Each Borrower represents and warrants (which representations and warranties
in the case of Medis, shall be limited to Medis and its Subsidiaries and other
facts and circumstances known to Medis and its Subsidiaries) to the Agent and
each Bank that:

     5.01  Corporate Existence and Power.  The Company and each of its
           -----------------------------                              
Subsidiaries:

          (a) is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the
laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or formation;

          (b) has the power and authority and all required governmental
licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to own its assets, carry on its
business and to execute, deliver, and perform its obligations under the Loan
Documents;

          (c) is duly qualified as a foreign corporation and is licensed and in
good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or
operation of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification
or license; and

          (d) is in compliance with all Requirements of Law;

except, with respect to Subsidiaries of the Company other than Material
Subsidiaries, to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be
expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and, with respect to the Company and
its Material Subsidiaries in each case referred to in clause (c) or clause (d),
to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have
a Material Adverse Effect.

     5.02  Corporate Authorization; No Contravention.  The execution, delivery
           -----------------------------------------                          
and performance by each Borrower of this Agreement and each other Loan Document
to which such Borrower is party, have been duly authorized by all necessary
corporate action, and do not and will not:

                                       61
<PAGE>
 
          (a) contravene the terms of any Borrower's Organization Documents;

          (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the
creation of any Lien under, any document evidencing any Contractual Obligation
to which any Borrower is a party or any order, injunction, writ or decree of any
Governmental Authority to which any Borrower or its property is subject; or

          (c) violate any Requirement of Law.

     5.03  Governmental Authorization.  No approval, consent, exemption,
           --------------------------
authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any
Governmental Authority is necessary or required in connection with the
execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, any Borrower of
the Agreement or any other Loan Document.

     5.04  Binding Effect.  This Agreement and each other Loan Document to which
           --------------                                                 
each Borrower is a party constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of
such Borrower, enforceable against such Borrower in accordance with their
respective terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable
bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors'
rights generally or by equitable principles relating to enforceability.

     5.05  Litigation.  There are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or
           ----------                                                      
disputes pending, or to the best knowledge of each Borrower, threatened or
contemplated, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental
Authority, against the Company, or its Subsidiaries or any of their respective
properties which:

          (a) purport to affect or pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan
Document, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby; or

          (b) if determined adversely to the Company or its Subsidiaries, would
reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect as of the Closing Date.
No injunction, writ, temporary restraining order or any order of any nature has
been issued by any court or other Governmental Authority purporting to enjoin or
restrain the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement or any other
Loan Document, or directing that the transactions provided for herein or therein
not be consummated as herein or therein provided.

     5.06  No Default .  No Default or Event of Default exists or would result
           ----------                                                        
from the incurring of any Obligations by the Company.  As of the Closing Date,
neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is in default under or with respect to
any Contractual Obligation in any respect which, individually or 

                                       62
<PAGE>
 
together with all such defaults, could reasonably be expected to have a Material
Adverse Effect as of the Closing Date, or that would, if such default had
occurred after the Closing Date, create an Event of Default under subsection
8.01(e).

     5.07  Use of Proceeds; Margin Regulations.  The proceeds of the Loans are
           -----------------------------------                                
to be used solely for the purposes set forth in Section 6.09.  Neither the
Company nor any Subsidiary is generally engaged in the business of purchasing or
selling Margin Stock or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or
carrying Margin Stock.

     5.08  Financial Condition.  (a) The (i) audited consolidated financial
           -------------------                                              
statements of the Company and its Subsidiaries dated March 31, 1994, and the
related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity
and cash flows for the fiscal year ended on that date and (ii) unaudited
consolidated financial statements of the Company and its Subsidiaries dated
December 31, 1994, and the related consolidated statements of income or
operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the nine months ended on
that date:

               (A) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied
     throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted
     therein, subject in the case of the unaudited statements to ordinary, good
     faith year end audit adjustments;

               (B) fairly present the financial condition of the Company and its
     Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and results of operations for the
     period covered thereby; and

               (C) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct
     or contingent, of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the
     date thereof required to be shown in accordance with GAAP.

          (b) As of the Closing Date, since March 31, 1994, there has been no
Material Adverse Effect.

     5.09  Regulated Entities.  None of the Company, any Person controlling the
           ------------------                                                  
Company, or any Subsidiary, is an "Investment Company" within the meaning of the
Investment Company Act of 1940.  Neither Borrower is subject to regulation under
the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, the Federal Power Act, the
Interstate Commerce Act, any state public utilities code, or any other Federal,
state or other statute or regulation limiting its ability to incur Indebtedness.

     5.10  No Burdensome Restrictions.  Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary
           --------------------------                                         
is a party to or bound by any Contractual Obligation, or subject to any
restriction in any Organization Document, or any Requirement of Law, which could
reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

                                       63
<PAGE>
 
     5.11  Subsidiaries and Certain Liens As of the Closing Date.  As of the
           -----------------------------------------------------            
Closing Date, the Company has no corporate Subsidiaries other than those
specifically disclosed in part (a) of Schedule 5.11 hereto.  As of the Closing
                                      -------------                           
Date, part (b) of Schedule 5.11 describes all outstanding Indebtedness of the
                  -------------                                              
Company and its Subsidiaries for borrowed money in excess of $10,000,000 that is
secured by a Lien existing on property of the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries.

     5.12  Collateral Documents.  (a) The provisions of each of the Collateral
           --------------------                                                
Documents are effective to create in favor of the Agent for its benefit and the
benefit of the Banks, a legal, valid and enforceable first priority security
interest in all right, title and interest of the Company in the Collateral
described therein subject only to the equal and ratable Lien of the Custodian
and the junior Lien of the Custodian under the Custodial Agreement; and
financing statements have been filed in the offices in accordance with the
Pledge Agreement.

          (b) All representations and warranties of the Company contained in the
Collateral Documents are true and correct.


                                  ARTICLE VI

                             AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS
                             ---------------------

     So long as any Bank shall have any Commitment hereunder, or any Loan or
other Obligation (other than Obligations under Section 10.05 that remain
contingent after termination of the Commitments and payment of all other
Obligations) shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, unless the Majority Banks waive
compliance in writing:

     6.01  Financial Statements.  The Company shall deliver to the Agent, in
           --------------------                                             
form and detail satisfactory to the Agent and the Majority Banks, with
sufficient copies for each Bank:

          (a) as soon as available, but not later than 90 days after the end of
each fiscal year (commencing with the fiscal year ended March 31, 1995), a copy
of the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as
at the end of such year and the related consolidated statements of income or
operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such year, setting forth in
each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, and
accompanied by the opinion of Deloitte & Touche or another nationally-recognized
independent public accounting firm ("Independent Auditor") which report shall
                                     -------------------                     
state that such consolidated financial statements present fairly the financial
position for the periods indicated in conformity with GAAP applied on a basis
consistent with prior years.  Such opinion shall not be qualified or limited
because of a restricted or limited examination by the Independent 

                                       64
<PAGE>
 
Auditor of any material portion of the Company's or any Subsidiary's records;
and

          (b) as soon as available, but not later than 60 days after the end of
each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year (commencing with the
fiscal quarter ended June 30, 1995), a copy of the unaudited consolidated
balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such quarter
and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders'
equity and cash flows for the period commencing on the first day and ending on
the last day of such quarter, and certified by a Responsible Officer as fairly
presenting, in accordance with GAAP (subject to ordinary, good faith year-end
audit adjustments), the financial position and the results of operations of the
Company and the Subsidiaries (which certification may be part of the related
Compliance Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 6.02(a)).

     6.02  Certificates; Other Information.  The Company shall furnish to the
           -------------------------------                                   
Agent, with sufficient copies for each Bank:

          (a) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements
referred to in subsections 6.01(a) and (b), a Compliance Certificate executed by
a Responsible Officer of the Company;

          (b) promptly, copies of all financial statements and reports that the
Company sends to its shareholders, and copies of all financial statements and
regular, periodical or special reports (including Forms 10K, 10Q and 8K) that
the Company or any Subsidiary may make to, or file with, the SEC;

          (c) on the fifteenth Business Day prior to the end of each calendar
quarter, a Notice of Election of Projected Market Value for the immediately
succeeding calendar quarter; and

          (d) promptly, such additional information regarding the business,
financial or corporate affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary, including
Medis, as the Agent, at the request of any Bank, may from time to time
reasonably request.

     6.03  Notices.  The Company and Medis shall notify the Agent and each Bank:
           -------                                                        

          (a) promptly, upon such occurrence, of the occurrence of any Default
or Event of Default, and of the occurrence or existence of any event or
circumstance that foreseeably will become a Default or Event of Default;

          (b) promptly, upon such occurrence, of any matter that has resulted or
may result in a Material Adverse Effect;

          (c) promptly upon any Responsible Officer of Company obtaining
knowledge thereof of (i) the institution of, or non-

                                       65
<PAGE>
 
frivolous threat of, any action, suit, proceeding (whether administrative,
judicial or otherwise), governmental investigation of arbitration against or
affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any property of the Company
or any of its Subsidiaries (collectively "PROCEEDINGS") not previously disclosed
in writing by the Company to Lenders or (ii) any material development in any
Proceeding that, in the case of clause (i) or (ii) above, (1) if adversely
determined, has a reasonable possibility of giving rise to a Material Adverse
Effect; or (2) seeks to enjoin or otherwise prevent the consummation of, or to
recover any damages or obtain relief as a result of, the transactions
contemplated hereby, together with such other information as may be reasonably
available to Company that the Agent requests to enable the Agent and the Banks
to evaluate such matters.

          (d) of any material change in accounting policies or financial
reporting practices by the Company or any of its consolidated Subsidiaries,
including but not limited to any change that has any effect on the calculation
of any financial covenant in this Agreement.

     6.04  Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc.  The Company and Medis 
           ----------------------------------------                        
shall, and shall cause their respective Material Subsidiaries to:

          (a) preserve and maintain in full force and effect its corporate
existence and good standing under the laws of their respective states or
jurisdictions of incorporation except, in the case of any Material Subsidiary
(other than Medis), in connection with transactions permitted by Section 7.02;
and

          (b) preserve and maintain in full force and effect all governmental
rights, privileges, qualifications, permits, licenses and franchises necessary
in the normal conduct of its business except in connection with transactions
permitted by Section 7.02 or except to the extent that the failure to do so
could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

     6.05  Insurance.  The Company and Medis shall maintain, and shall cause
           ---------                                                        
each of their respective Material Subsidiaries to maintain, with financially
sound and reputable insurers, insurance (including self-insurance) with respect
to its properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily
insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such
types and in such amounts as the Company reasonably deems prudent from time to
time.

     6.06  Payment of Taxes.  The Company and Medis shall, and shall cause each
           ----------------                                                    
of their respective Material Subsidiaries to, pay and discharge as the same
shall become due and payable, all tax liabilities, assessments and governmental
charges or levies 

                                       66
<PAGE>
 
upon it or its properties or assets (other than obligations that a Responsible
Officer is not aware of or are of a nominal amount), unless the same are being
contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and adequate reserves in
accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Company or such Subsidiary.

     6.07  Compliance with Laws.  The Company and Medis shall comply, and shall
           --------------------                                                
cause each of their respective Subsidiaries to comply, in all material respects
with all material Requirements of Law of any Governmental Authority having
jurisdiction over it or its business (including the Federal Fair Labor Standards
Act), except such as may be contested in good faith or as to which a bona fide
dispute may exist.

     6.08  Inspection of Property and Books and Records.  The Company and Medis
           --------------------------------------------
shall maintain and shall cause each of their respective Material Subsidiaries to
maintain in all material respects proper books of record and account, in which
full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP consistently applied
shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and
business of the Company and such Subsidiary.  The Company and Medis shall
permit, and shall cause each of their respective Subsidiaries to permit,
representatives and independent contractors of the Agent or any Bank to visit
and inspect any of their respective properties, to examine their respective
corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts
therefrom, and to discuss their respective affairs, finances and accounts with
their respective directors, officers, and independent public accountants, at
such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be
reasonably desired, upon reasonable advance notice to the Company; provided,
                                                                   -------- 
however, when an Event of Default exists the Agent or any Bank may do any of the
- -------                                                                         
foregoing at the reasonable expense of the Company at any time during normal
business hours and without advance notice.

     6.09  Use of Proceeds.  The Company and Medis shall use the proceeds of
           ---------------                                                  
the Loans for general corporate purposes not in contravention of any Requirement
of Law or of any Loan Document.

     6.10  Notice of Rating Change.  The Company shall, no later than ten
           -----------------------                                       
Business Days after a Responsible Officer obtains knowledge of any such change,
give notice to the Agent (by telephone, followed promptly by written notice
transmitted by facsimile with a hard copy sent promptly thereafter) of any
change in rating by any Rating Agency in respect of the Company's long-term,
senior unsecured debt, together with the details thereof, and of any
announcement by any Rating Agency that its rating in respect of such senior
unsecured long-term debt is "under review" or that any such debt rating has been
placed on a "CreditWatch List"(R) or "watch list" or that any similar action has
been taken by such Rating Agency.

                                       67
<PAGE>
 
                                  ARTICLE VII

                              NEGATIVE COVENANTS
                              ------------------

     So long as any Bank shall have any Commitment hereunder, or any Loan or
other Obligation (other than Obligations under Section 10.05 that remain
contingent after termination of the Commitments and payment of all other
Obligations) shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, unless the Majority Banks waive
compliance in writing:

     7.01  Limitation on Liens.  The Company and Medis shall not, and shall not
           -------------------
suffer or permit any of their respective Subsidiaries to directly or indirectly,
make, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon or with respect to
any part of its property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than
the following ("Permitted Liens"):
                ---------------   

          (a) any Lien existing on property of the Company or any Subsidiary on
the Closing Date securing Indebtedness outstanding on such date;

          (b) any Lien created under any Loan Document;

          (c) Liens for taxes, fees, assessments or other governmental charges
which are not delinquent or remain payable without penalty, or to the extent
that non-payment thereof is permitted by Section 6.07;

          (d) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', landlords', materialmen's,
repairmen's or other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business
which are not delinquent or remain payable without penalty;

          (e) Liens (other than any Lien imposed by ERISA) consisting of pledges
or deposits required in the ordinary course of business in connection with
workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security
legislation;

          (f) Liens on the property of the Company or its Subsidiary securing
(i) the non-delinquent performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for
borrowed money), leases, statutory obligations, (ii) contingent obligations on
surety and appeal bonds, and (iii) other non-delinquent obligations of a like
nature; in each case, incurred in the ordinary course of business, provided all
such Liens in the aggregate would not (even if enforced) cause a Material
Adverse Effect;

          (g) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar
encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business which, in the
aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case
materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or interfere
with the ordinary conduct of the businesses of the Company and its Subsidiaries;

                                       68
<PAGE>
 
          (h) Liens arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law
provision relating to banker's liens, rights of set-off or similar rights and
remedies as to deposit accounts or other funds maintained with a creditor
depository institution; provided that (i) such deposit account is not a
                        --------                                       
dedicated cash collateral account and is not subject to restrictions against
access by the Company in excess of those set forth by regulations promulgated by
the FRB, and (ii) such deposit account is not intended by the Company or any
Subsidiary to provide collateral to the depository institution; and

          (i) Any other Liens (other than any Lien imposed by ERISA or any Lien
for taxes, fees, assessments or other governmental charges that is not expressly
permitted under Section 7.01(c)); provided that the aggregate amount of all
                                  --------                                 
Permitted Liens does not exceed at any time 25% of Net Worth.

     7.02  Consolidations and Mergers.  The Company shall not, and shall not
           --------------------------
suffer or permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly,
merge, consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose
of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or
substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or
in favor of any Person, except:

          (a) any Subsidiary may merge with the Company, provided that the
Company shall be the continuing or surviving corporation, or with any one or
more Subsidiaries, provided that if any transaction shall be between a
Subsidiary and a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary, the Wholly-Owned Subsidiary shall be
the continuing or surviving corporation;

          (b) any Subsidiary may sell all or substantially all of its assets
(upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to the Company or another Wholly-Owned
Subsidiary; and

          (c) the Company may merge with another Person provided that the
Company shall be the continuing or surviving corporation and no Default or Event
of Default is in effect immediately prior to or on the date of or would result
from such merger.

     7.03  Use of Proceeds.  (a) The Company and Medis shall not, and shall not
           ---------------
suffer or permit any of their respective Subsidiaries to, use any portion of the
Loan proceeds, directly or indirectly, (i) to purchase or carry Margin Stock,
(ii) to repay or otherwise refinance indebtedness of the Company or others
incurred to purchase or carry Margin Stock, (iii) to extend credit for the
purpose of purchasing or carrying any Margin Stock, or (iv) to acquire any
security in any transaction that is subject to Section 13 or 14 of the Exchange
Act.

          (b) The Company and Medis shall not, directly or indirectly, use any
portion of the Loan proceeds (i) knowingly 

                                       69
<PAGE>
 
to purchase Ineligible Securities from the Arranger during any period in which
the Arranger makes a market in such Ineligible Securities, (ii) knowingly to
purchase during the underwriting or placement period Ineligible Securities being
underwritten or privately placed by the Arranger, or (iii) to make payments of
principal or interest on Ineligible Securities underwritten or privately placed
by the Arranger and issued by or for the benefit of the Company or any Affiliate
of the Company. The Arranger is a registered broker-dealer and permitted to
underwrite and deal in certain Ineligible Securities; and "Ineligible
                                                           ----------
Securities" means securities which may not be underwritten or dealt in by member
- ----------
banks of the Federal Reserve System under Section 16 of the Banking Act of 1933
(12 U.S.C. (S) 24, Seventh), as amended.

     7.04  Maximum Debt to Capitalization Ratio.  The Company shall not permit
           ------------------------------------                               
the ratio of Total Debt to Total Capitalization as at the last day of any
calendar month to exceed 0.565 to 1.00.


                                 ARTICLE VIII

                               EVENTS OF DEFAULT
                               -----------------

     8.01  Event of Default.  Any of the following shall constitute an "Event
           ----------------                                             -----
of Default":
- ----------  

          (a) Non-Payment.  Either Borrower fails to pay, (i) when and as
              -----------                                                
required to be paid herein, any amount of principal of any Loan made to such
Borrower or the amount of any Draft or Bankers' Acceptance, or (ii) within 5
days after the same becomes due, any interest, fee or any other amount payable
by such Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or

          (b) Representation or Warranty.  Any representation or warranty by
              --------------------------
the Company or any Subsidiary made or deemed made herein, in any other Loan
Document, or which is contained in any certificate, document or financial or
other statement by the Company, any Subsidiary, or any Responsible Officer,
furnished at any time under this Agreement, or in or under any other Loan
Document, is incorrect in any material respect on or as of the date made or
deemed made; or

          (c) Specific Defaults.  The Company fails to perform or observe any
              -----------------
term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 6.04(a) or in Article VII; or

          (d) Other Defaults.  Either Borrower fails to perform or observe any
              --------------
other term or covenant contained in this Agreement or any other Loan Document,
and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of 20 days after the
earlier of (i) in the case of any provision in Article V or VI, the date upon
which a Responsible Officer knew of such failure or 

                                       70
<PAGE>
 
(ii) the date upon which written notice thereof is given to the Company by the
Agent or any Bank; or

          (e) Cross-Default.  The Company or any Subsidiary (i) fails to make
              -------------
any payment in respect of any Indebtedness or Contingent Obligation having an
aggregate principal amount (including undrawn committed or available amounts and
including amounts owing to all creditors under any combined or syndicated credit
arrangement) of more than $10,000,000 when due (whether by scheduled maturity,
required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise) and such failure
continues after the applicable grace or notice period, if any, specified in the
relevant document on the date of such failure; or (ii) fails to perform or
observe any other condition or covenant, or any other event shall occur or
condition exist, under any agreement or instrument relating to any Indebtedness
or Contingent Obligation having an aggregate principal amount (including undrawn
committed or available amounts and including amounts owing to all creditors
under any combined or syndicated credit arrangement) of more than $10,000,000,
if the effect of such failure, event or condition is to cause such Indebtedness
to be declared to be due and payable prior to its stated maturity, or such
Contingent Obligation to become payable or cash collateral in respect thereof to
be demanded; or

          (f) Insolvency; Voluntary Proceedings.  The Company or any Material
              ---------------------------------
Subsidiary (i) ceases or fails to be solvent, or generally fails to pay, or
admits in writing its inability to pay, its debts as they become due, subject to
applicable grace periods, if any, whether at stated maturity or otherwise; (ii)
voluntarily ceases to conduct its business in the ordinary course; (iii)
commences any Insolvency Proceeding with respect to itself; or (iv) takes any
action to effectuate or authorize any of the foregoing; or

          (g) Involuntary Proceedings.  (i) Any involuntary Insolvency
              -----------------------                                 
Proceeding is commenced or filed against Company or any Material Subsidiary, or
any writ, judgment, warrant of attachment, execution or similar process, is
issued or levied against a substantial part of Company's or any Material
Subsidiary's properties, and any such proceeding or petition shall not be
dismissed, or such writ, judgment, warrant of attachment, execution or similar
process shall not be released, vacated or fully bonded within 60 days after
commencement, filing or levy; (ii) the Company or any Material Subsidiary admits
the material allegations of a petition against it in any Insolvency Proceeding,
or an order for relief (or similar order under non-U.S. law) is ordered in any
Insolvency Proceeding; or (iii) the Company or any Material Subsidiary
acquiesces in the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator,
liquidator, mortgagee in possession (or agent therefor), or other similar Person
for itself or a substantial portion of its property or business; or

                                       71
<PAGE>
 
          (h) ERISA.  There shall occur one or more ERISA Events which
              -----                                                   
individually or in the aggregate results in or might reasonably be expected to
result in liability of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in excess of
$25,000,000 during the term of this Agreement; or there shall exist an amount of
unfunded benefit liabilities (as defined in Section 4001(a)(18) of ERISA),
individually or in the aggregate for all Pension Plans (excluding for purposes
of such computation any Pension Plans with respect to which assets exceed
benefit liabilities), which exceeds 5% of Net Worth.

     8.02  Remedies.  If any Event of Default occurs, the Agent shall, at the
           --------                                                          
request of, or may, with the consent of, the Majority Banks,

          (a) declare the commitment of each Bank to make Loans or accept or
discount Drafts or Bankers' Acceptances to be terminated, whereupon such
commitments and the Banker's Acceptance Facility shall be terminated;

          (b) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all
interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable
hereunder or under any other Loan Document (including an amount equal to the
Face Amount of all unmatured Drafts and Bankers Acceptances) to be immediately
due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any
kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers; and

          (c) exercise on behalf of itself and the Banks all rights and remedies
available to it and the Banks under the Loan Documents or applicable law;

provided, however, that upon the occurrence of any event specified in subsection
- --------  -------                                                               
(f) or (g) of Section 8.01 (in the case of clause (i) of subsection (g) upon the
expiration of the 60-day period mentioned therein), the obligation of each Bank
to make Loans or accept or discount Drafts or Bankers' Acceptances shall
automatically terminate and the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans
and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due
and payable without further act of the Agent or any Bank.

     8.03  Rights Not Exclusive.  The rights provided for in this Agreement and
           --------------------
the other Loan Documents are cumulative and are not exclusive of any other
rights, powers, privileges or remedies provided by law or in equity, or under
any other instrument, document or agreement now existing or hereafter arising.

                                       72
<PAGE>
 
                                  ARTICLE IX

                                  THE AGENTS
                                  ----------

     9.01  Appointment and Authorization.  Each Bank hereby irrevocably (subject
           -----------------------------
to Section 9.09) appoints, designates and authorizes each of the Agents to take
such action on its behalf under the provisions of this Agreement and each other
Loan Document and to exercise such powers and perform such duties as are
expressly delegated to it by the terms of this Agreement or any other Loan
Document, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained elsewhere in this
Agreement or in any other Loan Document, none of the Agents shall have any
duties or responsibilities, except those expressly set forth herein, nor shall
any of the Agents have or be deemed to have any fiduciary relationship with any
Bank, and no implied covenants, functions, responsibilities, duties, obligations
or liabilities shall be read into this Agreement or any other Loan Document or
otherwise exist against any of the Agents.

     9.02  Delegation of Duties.  Each of the Agents may execute any of its
           --------------------                                            
duties under this Agreement or any other Loan Document by or through agents,
employees or attorneys-in-fact ("Delegate") and shall be entitled to advice of
counsel concerning all matters pertaining to such duties; provided that, no
Agent in its capacity as an Agent shall delegate its duty hereunder to make or
receive payments unless the Delegate shall be a resident of the same
jurisdiction as the Agent making such delegation.  None of the Agents shall be
responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any agent or attorney-in-fact
that it selects with reasonable care.

     9.03  Liability of Agent.  None of the Agent-Related Persons shall (a) be
           ------------------                                                 
liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by any of them under or in
connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the transactions
contemplated hereby (except for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct),
or (b) be responsible in any manner to any of the Banks for any recital,
statement, representation or warranty made by the Company or any Subsidiary or
Affiliate of the Company, or any officer thereof, contained in this Agreement or
in any other Loan Document, or in any certificate, report, statement or other
document referred to or provided for in, or received by any of the Agents under
or in connection with, this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or the
validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this
Agreement or any other Loan Document, or for any failure of the Company or any
other party to any Loan Document to perform its obligations hereunder or
thereunder.  No Agent-Related Person shall be under any obligation to any Bank
to ascertain or to inquire as to the observance or performance of any of the
agreements contained in, or conditions of, this Agreement or any other Loan
Document, or to inspect the properties, books or 

                                       73
<PAGE>
 
records of the Company or any of the Company's Subsidiaries or Affiliates.

     9.04  Reliance by the Agents.  (a)  Each of the Agents shall be entitled
           ----------------------                                            
to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any writing, resolution,
notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, telegram, facsimile, telex or
telephone message, statement or other document or conversation believed by it to
be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper
Person or Persons, and upon advice and statements of legal counsel (including
counsel to the Company), independent accountants and other experts selected with
reasonable care by it. Each of the Agents shall be fully justified in failing or
refusing to take any action under this Agreement or any other Loan Document
unless it shall first receive such advice or concurrence of the Majority Banks
as it deems appropriate and, if it so requests, it shall first be indemnified to
its satisfaction by the Banks against any and all liability and expense which
may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action.
Each of the Agents shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in
refraining from acting, under this Agreement or any other Loan Document in
accordance with a request or consent of the Majority Banks and such request and
any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all of
the Banks.

          (b) For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions
specified in Section 4.01, each Bank that has executed this Agreement shall be
deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each
document or other matter either sent by any of the Agents to such Bank for
consent, approval, acceptance or satisfaction, or required thereunder to be
consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to the Bank.

     9.05  Notice of Default.  None of the Agents shall be deemed to have
           -----------------                                             
knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default, except
with respect to defaults in the payment of principal, interest and fees required
to be paid to it for the account of the Banks, unless it shall have received
written notice from a Bank or the Company referring to this Agreement,
describing such Default or Event of Default and stating that such notice is a
"notice of default".  Each of the Agents will notify the Banks of its receipt of
any such notice.  The Agent shall take such action with respect to such Default
or Event of Default as may be requested by the Majority Banks in accordance with
Article VIII; provided, however, that unless and until the Agent has received
              --------  -------                                              
any such request, the Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) take such
action, or refrain from taking such action, with respect to such Default or
Event of Default as it shall deem advisable or in the best interest of the
Banks.

                                       74
<PAGE>
 
     9.06  Credit Decision.  Each Bank acknowledges that none of the Agent-
           ---------------                                                
Related Persons has made any representation or warranty to it, and that no act
by any of the Agents hereinafter taken, including any review of the affairs of
the Company and its Subsidiaries, shall be deemed to constitute any
representation or warranty by any Agent-Related Person to any Bank.  Each Bank
represents to each of the Agents that it has, independently and without reliance
upon any Agent-Related Person and based on such documents and information as it
has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal of and investigation into the
business, prospects, operations, property, financial and other condition and
creditworthiness of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and all applicable bank
regulatory laws relating to the transactions contemplated hereby, and made its
own decision to enter into this Agreement and to extend credit to the Company
hereunder.  Each Bank also represents that it will, independently and without
reliance upon any Agent-Related Person and based on such documents and
information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own
credit analysis, appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking action under
this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and to make such investigations as
it deems necessary to inform itself as to the business, prospects, operations,
property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Company.
Except for notices, reports and other documents expressly herein required to be
furnished to the Banks by the Agents, none of the Agents shall have any duty or
responsibility to provide any Bank with any credit or other information
concerning the business, prospects, operations, property, financial and other
condition or creditworthiness of the Company which may come into the possession
of any of the Agent-Related Persons.

     9.07  Indemnification of Agent.  Whether or not the transactions
           ------------------------                                  
contemplated hereby are consummated, the Banks shall indemnify upon demand the
Agent-Related Persons (to the extent not reimbursed by or on behalf of the
Company and without limiting the obligation of the Company to do so), pro rata,
from and against any and all Indemnified Liabilities and any other liability,
obligation, loss, damage, penalty, action, judgment, suit, cost, charge, expense
or disbursement (including Attorney's Costs) that would be an Indemnified
Liability but for the fact that it relates or arises out of a claim or
threatened claim by a Borrower or other Person party to this Agreement,
including under Section 6.02 of the Custodial Agreement and Section 7.01 of the
Pledge Agreement; provided, however, that no Bank shall be liable for the
                  --------  -------                                      
payment to the Agent-Related Persons of any portion of such Indemnified
Liabilities resulting solely from such Person's gross negligence or willful
misconduct.  Without limitation of the foregoing, each Bank shall reimburse each
of the Agents upon demand for its ratable share of any costs or out-of-pocket
expenses (including Attorney Costs) incurred by it in connection with the
preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or
enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or 

                                       75
<PAGE>
 
otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under,
this Agreement, any other Loan Document, or any document contemplated by or
referred to herein, to the extent that it is not reimbursed for such expenses by
or on behalf of the Company. The undertaking in this Section shall survive the
payment of all Obligations hereunder and the resignation or replacement of any
of the Agents.

     9.08  Agents in Individual Capacity.  Any of the Agents and any of their
           -----------------------------                                     
Affiliates may make loans to, issue letters of credit for the account of, accept
deposits from, acquire equity interests in and generally engage in any kind of
banking, trust, financial advisory, underwriting or other business with the
Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates as though such of the Agents was not
one of the Agents hereunder and without notice to or consent of the Banks.  The
Banks acknowledge that, pursuant to such activities, any of the Agents or any of
their Affiliates may receive information regarding the Company or its Affiliates
(including information that may be subject to confidentiality obligations in
favor of the Company or such Subsidiary) and acknowledge that none of the Agents
shall be under any obligation to provide such information to them.  With respect
to its Loans, each of the Agents shall have the same rights and powers under
this Agreement as any other Bank and may exercise the same as though it were not
one of the Agents.  The terms "Bank" and "Banks" include in its individual
capacity.

     9.09  Successor Agent.  Any of the Agents may, and at the request of the
           ----------------                                                   
Majority Banks shall, resign as one of the Agents upon 30 days' notice to the
Banks.  If the Agent resigns under this Agreement, then the Co-Agent shall
become the Agent.  If the Co-Agent resigns as Agent, then the Majority Banks
shall appoint from among the Banks a successor agent for the Banks which
successor agent shall be approved by the Company.  If no successor agent is
appointed prior to the effective date of the resignation of the Agent or the
Canadian Administrative Agent, the Agent may appoint, after consulting with the
Banks and the Company, a successor agent from among the Banks.  Upon the
acceptance of its appointment as successor agent hereunder, such successor agent
shall succeed to all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Agent or
Canadian Administrative Agent, as the case may be, and the terms "Agents",
"Agent" or "Canadian Administrative Agent" shall mean such successor agent and
the retiring agent's appointment, powers and duties as Agent or Canadian
Administrative Agent, as the case may be, shall be terminated. After any
retiring agent's resignation hereunder as Agent or Canadian Administrative
Agent, as the case may be, the provisions of this Article IX and Sections 10.04
and 10.05 shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be
taken by it while it was Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent, as the case may
be, under this Agreement.  If no successor agent has accepted appointment as
Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent, as the case may be, by the date which is
30 days following a retiring agent's notice of resignation, the retiring 

                                       76
<PAGE>
 
agent's resignation shall nevertheless thereupon become effective and the Banks
shall perform all of the duties of the Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent,
as the case may be, hereunder until such time, if any, as the Majority Banks
appoint a successor agent as provided for above.

     9.10  Withholding Tax.  (a) If any Tranche A Bank or Tranche B Domestic
           ---------------
Bank is a "foreign corporation, partnership or trust" within the meaning of the
Code and such Bank claims exemption from, or a reduction of, U.S. withholding
tax under Sections 1441 or 1442 of the Code, such Bank agrees with and in favor
of the Agent, to deliver to the Agent:

               (i) if such Bank claims an exemption from, or a reduction of,
     withholding tax under a United States tax treaty, properly completed IRS
     Forms 1001 and W-8 before the payment of any interest in the first calendar
     year and before the payment of any interest in each third succeeding
     calendar year during which interest may be paid under this Agreement;

              (ii) if such Bank claims that interest paid under this Agreement
     is exempt from United States withholding tax because it is effectively
     connected with a United States trade or business of such Bank, two properly
     completed and executed copies of IRS Form 4224 before the payment of any
     interest is due in the first taxable year of such Bank and in each
     succeeding taxable year of such Bank during which interest may be paid
     under this Agreement, and IRS Form W-9; and

             (iii) such other form or forms as may be required under the Code
     or other laws of the United States as a condition to exemption from, or
     reduction of, United States withholding tax.

Such Bank agrees to promptly notify the Agent of any change in circumstances
which would modify or render invalid any claimed exemption or reduction.

          (b) If any Tranche A Bank or Tranche B Domestic Bank claims exemption
from, or reduction of, withholding tax under a United States tax treaty by
providing IRS Form 1001 and such Bank sells, assigns, grants a participation in,
or otherwise transfers all or part of the Obligations of the Company to such
Bank, such Bank agrees to notify the Agent of the percentage amount in which it
is no longer the beneficial owner of Obligations of the Company to such Bank.
To the extent of such percentage amount, the Agent will treat such Bank's IRS
Form 1001 as no longer valid.

          (c) If any Tranche A Bank or Tranche B Domestic Bank claiming
exemption from United States withholding tax by filing IRS Form 4224 with the
Agent sells, assigns, grants a 

                                       77
<PAGE>
 
participation in, or otherwise transfers all or part of the Obligations of the
Company to such Bank, such Bank agrees to undertake sole responsibility for
complying with the withholding tax requirements imposed by Sections 1441 and
1442 of the Code.

          (d) If any Tranche A Bank or Tranche B Domestic Bank is entitled to a
reduction in the applicable withholding tax, Agent may withhold from any
interest payment to such Bank an amount equivalent to the applicable withholding
tax after taking into account such reduction.  If the forms or other
documentation required by subsection (a) of this Section are not delivered to
the Agent, then the Agent may withhold from any interest payment to such Bank
not providing such forms or other documentation an amount equivalent to the
applicable withholding tax.

          (e) If the IRS or any other Governmental Authority of the United
States or other jurisdiction asserts a claim that the Agent did not properly
withhold tax from amounts paid to or for the account of any Tranche A Bank or
Tranche B Domestic Bank (because the appropriate form was not delivered, was not
properly executed, or because such Bank failed to notify the Agent of a change
in circumstances which rendered the exemption from, or reduction of, withholding
tax ineffective, or for any other reason) such Bank shall indemnify the Agent
fully for all amounts paid, directly or indirectly, by the Agent as tax or
otherwise, including penalties and interest, and including any taxes imposed by
any jurisdiction on the amounts payable to the Agent under this Section,
together with all costs and expenses (including Attorney Costs).  The obligation
of the Tranche A Banks or Tranche B Banks under this subsection shall survive
the payment of all Obligations and the resignation or replacement of the Agent.

          (f) If any Tranche B Canadian Bank is not a resident of Canada for
purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada) and such Tranche B Canadian Bank claims
exemptions from, or reduction of, Canadian withholding tax, such Tranche B
Canadian Bank agrees with and in favor of the Agent and the Canadian
Administrative Agent, to deliver to the Agent and the Canadian Administrative
Agent all forms as may be required under the Income Tax Act (Canada) or other
laws of Canada as a condition to exemption from, or reduction of, Canadian
withholding tax.  Such Tranche B Canadian Bank agrees to promptly notify the
Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which
would modify or render invalid any claimed exemption or reduction.  If any
Tranche B Canadian Bank claims exemption from, or reduction of, Canadian
withholding tax and such Bank sells, assigns, grants a participation in, or
otherwise transfers all or part of the Obligations of Medis to such Tranche B
Canadian Bank, such Tranche B Canadian Bank agrees to notify the Agent and the
Canadian Administrative Agent of the percentage amount in which it is no longer
the beneficial owner of Obligations of Medis to such Tranche B Canadian Bank.
If any 

                                       78
<PAGE>
 
Tranche B Canadian Bank is entitled to a reduction in the applicable Canadian
withholding tax, the Canadian Administrative Agent may withhold from any
interest payment to such Tranche B Canadian Bank an amount equivalent to the
applicable withholding tax after taking into account such reduction. If the
forms or other documentation required by this subsection 9.10(f) are not
delivered to the Agent or the Canadian Administrative Agent, then the Canadian
Administrative Agent may withhold from any interest payment to such Tranche B
Canadian Bank not providing such forms or other documentation an amount
equivalent to the applicable withholding tax. If any Governmental Authority of
Canada asserts a claim that the Canadian Administrative Agent or Medis did not
properly withhold tax from amounts paid to or for the account of any Bank
(because the appropriate form is not delivered, was not properly executed, or
because such Tranche B Canadian Bank failed to notify the Canadian
Administrative Agent of a change in circumstances which rendered the exemption
from, or reduction of, withholding tax ineffective, or for any other reason)
such Tranche B Canadian Bank shall indemnify the Canadian Administrative Agent
and Medis fully for all amounts paid, directly or indirectly, by the Canadian
Administrative Agent or Medis as tax or otherwise, including penalties and
interest, and including any taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on the amounts
payable to the Canadian Administrative Agent or Medis under this subsection
9.10(f), together with all costs and expenses (including Attorney Costs). The
obligation of the Tranche B Canadian Bank under this subsection shall survive
the payment of all Obligations and the resignation or replacement of the
Canadian Administrative Agent.

     9.11  Collateral Matters.
           ------------------

          (a) The Agent is authorized on behalf of all the Banks, without the
necessity of any notice to or further consent from the Banks, from time to time
to take any action with respect to any Collateral or the Collateral Documents
which may be necessary to perfect and maintain perfected the security interest
in and Liens upon the Collateral granted pursuant to the Collateral Documents.

          (b) The Banks irrevocably authorize the Agent, at its option and in
its discretion, to release any Lien granted to or held by the Agent upon any
Collateral (i) at the request of the Company in accordance with the terms of the
Pledge Agreement at any time other than after the occurrence and during the
existence of an Event of Default; (ii) upon termination of the Commitments and
payment in full of all Loans and all other Obligations known to the Agent and
payable under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; (iii) constituting
property in which the Company or any Subsidiary owned no interest at the time
the Lien thereon was granted or at any time thereafter (as to which the Agent
may conclusively rely on a certificate of a  Responsible Officer of the Company
representing same); or (iv) if approved, authorized or ratified in writing by
the 

                                      79
<PAGE>
 
Majority Banks or all the Banks, as the case may be, as provided in
subsection 10.01(f).  Upon request by the Agent at any time, the Banks will
confirm in writing the Agent's authority to release particular types or items of
Collateral pursuant to this subsection 9.11(b).

     9.12  Co-Agent.  Except as set forth in the second sentence of Section
           --------
9.09, the Co-Agent shall not have any duties or other obligations in its
capacity as Co-Agent hereunder.


                                   ARTICLE X

                                 MISCELLANEOUS
                                 -------------

     10.01  Amendments and Waivers.  No amendment or waiver of any provision of
            ----------------------
this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent with respect to any
departure by any Borrower therefrom, shall be effective unless the same shall be
in writing and signed by the Majority Banks (or by the Agent at the written
request of the Majority Banks) and the Company and acknowledged by the Agent and
the Canadian Administrative Agent, and then any such waiver or consent shall be
effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which
given; provided, however, that no such waiver, amendment, or consent shall,
       --------  -------                                                   
unless in writing and signed by all the Banks, the Company and, if such waiver,
amendment or consent relates to Medis or rights or Obligations of Medis, Medis
and acknowledged by the Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent, do any of
the following:

          (a) increase or extend the Commitment of any Bank (or reinstate any
Commitment terminated pursuant to Section 8.02)or increase or extend the
obligation of any Bank to accept or discount Drafts or Bankers' Acceptances;

          (b) postpone or delay any date fixed by this Agreement or any other
Loan Document for any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due
to the Banks (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document;

          (c) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein
on any Loan, or (subject to clause (ii) below) any fees or other amounts payable
hereunder or under any other Loan Document (including, without limitation, a
decrease in any amount payable in respect of Drafts or Bankers' Acceptances);

          (d) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate
unpaid principal amount of the Loans which is required for the Banks or any of
them to take any action hereunder;

                                      80
<PAGE>
 
          (e) amend this Section, or Section 2.13, or any provision herein
providing for consent or other action by all Banks; or

          (f) release all or substantially all of the Collateral after the
occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default except as otherwise
may be provided in the Collateral Documents or in subsection 9.11(b);

and, provided, further, that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless
     --------  -------                                                        
in writing and signed by the Agent or the Canadian Administrative Agent, as the
case may be, in addition to the Majority Banks or all the Banks, as the case may
be, affect the rights or duties of the Agent or the Canadian Administrative
Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and (ii) the Fee Letter
may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed
by the parties thereto.

     10.02  Notices.  (a) All notices, requests and other communications
            -------
required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing, except as otherwise
expressly set forth herein (including, unless the context expressly otherwise
provides, by facsimile transmission, provided that any matter transmitted by
either of the Borrowers by facsimile (i) shall be immediately confirmed by a
telephone call to the recipient at the number specified on Schedule 10.02, and
                                                           --------------     
(ii) shall be followed promptly by delivery of a hard copy original thereof),
and mailed, faxed or delivered, to the address or facsimile number specified for
notices on Schedule 10.02; or, as directed to the Borrowers, the Agent or the
           --------------                                                    
Canadian Administrative Agent, to such other address as shall be designated by
such party in a written notice to the other parties, and as directed to any
other party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a
written notice to the Company and the Agents.

          (b) All such notices, requests and communications shall, when
transmitted by overnight delivery, or faxed, be effective when delivered for
overnight (next-day) delivery, or transmitted in legible form by facsimile
machine, respectively, or if mailed, upon the third Business Day after the date
deposited into the U.S. mail, or if delivered, upon delivery; except that
notices pursuant to Article II or IX shall not be effective until actually
received by the Agent and/or the Canadian Administrative Agent, as applicable.

          (c) Any agreement of the Agents and the Banks herein to receive
certain notices by telephone or facsimile is solely for the convenience and at
the request of the Borrowers.  Any of the Agents and the Banks shall be entitled
to rely on the authority of any Person purporting to be a Person authorized by a
Borrower to give such notice and the Agents and the Banks shall not have any
liability to either Borrower or other Person on account of any action taken or
not taken by the Agents or the Banks in reliance upon such telephonic or
facsimile notice.  The 

                                      81
<PAGE>
 
obligation of Borrowers to repay the Loans made to it shall not be affected in
any way or to any extent by any failure by the Agents and the Banks to receive
written confirmation of any telephonic or facsimile notice or the receipt by the
Agents and the Banks of a confirmation which is at variance with the terms
understood by the Agents and the Banks to be contained in the telephonic or
facsimile notice.

     10.03  No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies.  No failure to exercise and no
            ------------------------------
delay in exercising, on the part of the Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent
or any Bank, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a
waiver thereof;  nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy,
power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or
the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege.  The rights and
remedies of the parties provided herein and in the other Loan Documents are
cumulative and are in addition to, and not exclusive of, any rights or remedies
provided by law.

     10.04  Costs and Expenses.  The Company and Medis jointly and severally
            ------------------
shall:

          (a) whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are
consummated, pay or reimburse all Agent-Related Persons (including BofA in its
capacity as Agent) within five Business Days after demand (subject to subsection
4.01(f)) for all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by such Agent-Related
Persons (including BofA in its capacity as Agent) reasonably required in
connection with the development, preparation, negotiation, delivery,
administration and execution of, and any amendment, supplement, waiver or
modification to (in each case, whether or not consummated), this Agreement, any
Loan Document and any other documents prepared in connection herewith or
therewith, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and
thereby including reasonable Attorney Costs incurred by such Agent-Related
Persons (including BofA in its capacity as Agent) with respect thereto; provided
that any costs and expenses incurred under this subsection 10.04(a) prior to the
Closing Date shall be limited to the out-of-pocket costs and expenses of the
Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Arranger, including reasonable
Attorneys Costs incurred by the Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent; and

          (b) pay or reimburse all Agent-Related Persons and each Bank within
five Business Days after demand (subject to subsection 4.01(f)) for all costs
and expenses (including Attorney Costs) incurred by them in connection with the
enforcement, attempted enforcement, or preservation of any rights or remedies
under this Agreement or any other Loan Document during the existence of an Event
of Default or after acceleration of the Loans (including in connection with any
"workout" or restructuring regarding the Loans, and including in any Insolvency
Proceeding or appellate proceeding).

                                      82
<PAGE>
 
     10.05  Borrower Indemnification.  Whether or not the transactions
            ------------------------
contemplated hereby are consummated, Company and Medis jointly and severally
shall indemnify and hold the Agent-Related Persons, and each Bank and each of
its respective officers, directors, employees, counsel, agents and attorneys-in-
fact (each, an "Indemnified Person") harmless from and against any and all
                ------------------                                        
liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits,
costs, charges, expenses and disbursements (including Attorney Costs) of any
kind or nature whatsoever which may at any time (including at any time following
repayment of the Loans and the termination, resignation or replacement of any of
the Agents or replacement of any Bank) be imposed on, incurred by or asserted
against any such Person as a result of any claim or threatened claim by a Person
not party to this Agreement or by a Borrower (except for claims by a Borrower or
against any Agent or a Bank that are successful on the merits as determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction), in any case in any way relating to or arising
out of this Agreement or any document contemplated by or referred to herein, or
the transactions contemplated hereby, or any action taken or omitted by any such
Person under or in connection with any of the foregoing, including with respect
to any investigation, litigation or proceeding (including any Insolvency
Proceeding or appellate proceeding) related to or arising out of this Agreement
or the Loans or the use of the proceeds thereof, or related to any Canadian
Dollar transactions entered into in connection herewith whether or not any
Indemnified Person is a party thereto (all the foregoing, collectively, the
"Indemnified Liabilities"); provided that a Borrower shall have no obligation
 -----------------------    --------                                         
hereunder to any Indemnified Person with respect to Indemnified Liabilities to
the extent resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such
Indemnified Person. The agreements in this Section shall survive payment of all
other Obligations; provided further that this Section 10.05 shall not be
construed to expand the obligations of a Borrower to make payments to the Banks
in the circumstances required under subsections 3.01, 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 or 3.05,
it being understood and agreed that such subsections shall govern the rights and
obligations of the Borrowers and the Banks as to matters set forth therein, or
to require a Borrower to compensate a Bank for any Indemnified Liability
relating to its cost of funds for any Borrowing.

     10.06  Payments Set Aside.  To the extent that a Borrower makes a payment
            ------------------
to any of the Agents or the Banks, or any of the Agents or the Banks exercise
their right of set-off, and such payment or the proceeds of such set-off or any
part thereof are subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or
preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement
entered into by the Agents or such Bank in its discretion) to be repaid to a
trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any Insolvency
Proceeding or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery the obligation
or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied 

                                      83
<PAGE>
 
shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had
not been made or such set-off had not occurred, and (b) each Bank severally
agrees to pay to the Agents upon demand its pro rata share of any amount so
recovered from or repaid by the Agents.

     10.07  Successors and Assigns.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be
            ----------------------
binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective
successors and assigns, except that neither Borrower may assign or transfer any
of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written
consent of the Agent and each Bank.

     10.08  Assignments, Participations, etc.  (a) Any Bank may, with the
            ---------------------------------
written consent of the Company at all times other than during the existence of
an Event of Default and the Agent, which consent of the Agent shall not be
unreasonably withheld, at any time assign and delegate to one or more Eligible
Assignees (provided that no written consent of the Company or the Agent shall be
required in connection with any assignment and delegation by a Bank to an
Eligible Assignee that is an Affiliate of such Bank) (each an "Assignee") all,
                                                               --------       
or any ratable part of all, of the Loans, Bankers' Acceptance Facility, the
Commitments (including the Tranche B Commitments) and the other rights and
obligations of such Bank hereunder, in a minimum amount of  $10,000,000 or any
multiple of $5,000,000 in excess thereof; provided, however, that the Borrowers
                                          --------  -------                    
and the Agent may continue to deal solely and directly with such Bank in
connection with the interest so assigned to an Assignee until (i) written notice
of such assignment, together with payment instructions, addresses and related
information with respect to the Assignee, shall have been given to the Company
and the Agent by such Bank and the Assignee; (ii) such Bank and its Assignee
shall have delivered to the Company and the Agent an Assignment and Acceptance
substantially in the form of Exhibit E ("Assignment and Acceptance") with such
                                         -------------------------            
changes thereto as the Agent and the Company may approve together with any Note
or Notes subject to such assignment and (iii) the assignor Bank or Assignee has
paid to the Agent a processing fee in the amount of $3,500.  Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in this subsection 10.08(a), no Tranche B Bank that has
an Affiliate Bank shall make or grant any sale, assignment, transfer or
negotiation with respect to any percentage of its Loans, Bankers Acceptance
Facility, Bankers Acceptances, Commitments or any other Obligation to any other
Person (other than to an Affiliate of such Bank) unless its Bank Affiliate shall
simultaneously make or grant an assignment with respect to the same percentage
of its Loans, Bankers Acceptances, Bankers Acceptance Facility, Commitments or
other Obligations to such Person.

          (b) From and after the date that the Agent notifies the assignor Bank
that it has received (and provided its consent and received the Company's
consent with respect to) an executed Assignment and Acceptance and payment of
the above-referenced 

                                      84
<PAGE>
 
processing fee, (i) the Assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the
extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant
to such Assignment and Acceptance, shall have the rights and obligations of a
Bank under the Loan Documents, and (ii) the assignor Bank shall, to the extent
that rights and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents have
been assigned by it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its
rights and be released from its obligations under the Loan Documents.

          (c) If the assignor Bank had received any Notes, within five Business
Days after its receipt of notice by the Agent that it has received an executed
Assignment and Acceptance and payment of the processing fee, (and provided that
the Company and the Agent have consented to such assignment in accordance with
subsection 10.08(a)), each Borrower, as applicable, shall execute and deliver to
the Agent, new Notes evidencing such Assignee's assigned Loans and, if the
assignor Bank has retained a portion of its Loans, replacement Notes in the
principal amount of the Loans retained by the assignor Bank (such Notes to be in
exchange for, but not in payment of, the Notes held by such Bank).  Immediately
upon each Assignee's becoming a party to this Agreement in accordance with
Section 10.08(b)(i), this Agreement shall be deemed to be amended to the extent,
but only to the extent, necessary to reflect the addition of the Assignee and
the resulting adjustment of the Tranche A Commitments and the Tranche B
Commitments arising therefrom.  The Tranche A Commitment or Tranche B Commitment
allocated to each Assignee shall reduce the Tranche A Commitment or Tranche B
Commitment of the assigning Bank pro tanto.
                                 --- ----- 

          (d) Any Bank may, with the written consent of the Company at all
times other than during the existence of an Event of Default and the Agent,
which consent of the Agent shall not be unreasonably withheld, at any time sell
to one or more Eligible Assignees (provided that no written consent of the
Company or the Agent shall be required in connection with any participation by a
Bank to an Eligible Assignee that is an Affiliate of such Bank) (a 
"Participant")  participating interests in any Loans, Bankers' Acceptances, the 
 -----------  
Bankers' Acceptance Facility, the Tranche A Commitment or Tranche B Commitment
of that Bank and the other interests of that Bank (the "originating Bank")
hereunder and under the other Loan Documents; provided, however, that (i) the
                                              --------  -------
originating Bank's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii)
the originating Bank shall remain solely responsible for the performance of such
obligations, (iii) the Borrowers and the Agent shall continue to deal solely and
directly with the originating Bank in connection with the originating Bank's
rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (iv)
no Tranche B Bank which has an Affiliate Bank shall make or grant any
participation with respect to any percentage of its Loans, Bankers' Acceptance
Facility, Bankers' Acceptances, Tranche A Commitment or Tranche B Commitment or
any 

                                      85
<PAGE>
 
other Person (other than an Affiliate of such Bank) unless its Affiliate Bank
shall simultaneously make or grant a participation with respect to the same
percentage of its Loans, Bankers' Acceptances, Bankers' Acceptance Facility,
Tranche A Commitments or Tranche B Commitments to such Person; and (v) no Bank
shall transfer or grant any participating interest under which the Participant
has rights to approve any amendment to, or any consent or waiver with respect
to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document, except to the extent such
amendment, consent or waiver would require unanimous consent of the Banks as
described in the first proviso to Section 10.01. In the case of any such
                 ----- -------                                          
participation, the Participant shall not have any rights under this Agreement,
or any of the other Loan Documents, and all amounts payable by the Borrowers
hereunder shall be determined as if such Bank had not sold such participation;
except that, if amounts outstanding under this Agreement are due and unpaid, or
shall have been declared or shall have become due and payable upon the
occurrence of an Event of Default, each Participant shall be deemed to have the
right of set-off in respect of its participating interest in amounts owing under
this Agreement to the same extent as if the amount of its participating interest
were owing directly to it as a Bank under this Agreement.

          (e) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, any Bank
may at any time create a security interest in, or pledge, all or any portion of
its rights under and interest in this Agreement and any Notes held by it in
favor of any Federal Reserve Bank in accordance with Regulation A of the FRB or
U.S. Treasury Regulation 31 CFR (S)203.14, and such Federal Reserve Bank may
enforce such pledge or security interest in any manner permitted under
applicable law.

          (f) Notwithstanding this Section 10.08, no consent of the Company or
Agent or other requirements in this Section 10.08 shall be required to be
satisfied in connection with the purchase of a Bankers' Acceptance by a
participant as contemplated by subsection 2.17.

     10.09  Confidentiality.  Each of the Agents and each Bank agrees to take
            ---------------
and to cause its Affiliates (including the Agent-Related Persons) to take normal
and reasonable precautions and exercise due care to maintain the confidentiality
of all information identified as "confidential" or "secret"  by the Company and
provided to it by the Company or any Subsidiary, or by any of the Agents on such
Company's or Subsidiary's behalf, under this Agreement or any other Loan
Document, and neither it nor any of its Affiliates shall use any such
information other than in connection with or in enforcement of this Agreement
and the other Loan Documents or in connection with other business now or
hereafter existing or contemplated with the Company or any Subsidiary, except to
the extent such information (i) was or becomes generally available to the public
other than as a result of disclosure by any of the Agents or such Bank, or (ii)
was or 

                                      86
<PAGE>
 
becomes available on a non-confidential basis from a source other than
the Company, provided that such source is not bound by a confidentiality
agreement with the Company known to the Agent or such Bank; provided, however,
                                                            --------  ------- 
that any of the Agents and any Bank may disclose such information (A) at the
request or pursuant to any requirement of any Governmental Authority to which
any of the Agents or any Bank is subject or in connection with an examination of
such Bank by any such authority; (B) pursuant to subpoena or other court
process; (C) when required to do so in accordance with the provisions of any
applicable Requirement of Law; (D) to the extent reasonably required in
connection with the exercise of any remedy hereunder or under any other Loan
Document; (E) to such Bank's independent auditors and other professional
advisors and to any of the Agents or any other Bank; (F) to any Participant or
Assignee, actual or potential, provided that such Person agrees in writing to
keep such information confidential to the same extent required of the Banks
hereunder; (G) as to any of the Agents or any Bank or its Affiliate, as
expressly permitted under the terms of any other document or agreement regarding
confidentiality to which the Company or any Subsidiary is party or is deemed
party with such Bank or such Affiliate; and (H) to its Affiliates; provided,
                                                                   -------- 
further, that to the extent permitted by applicable law or regulation, each of
- -------                                                                       
the Agents and each Bank agree to notify the Company prior to (if reasonably
practicable) or concurrently with its disclosure of such information to any
third party pursuant to clauses (B), (C), or (F).

     10.10  Set-off.  In addition to any rights and remedies of the Banks
            -------
provided by law, if an Event of Default exists or the Loans have been
accelerated, each Bank is authorized at any time and from time to time, without
prior notice to the Company or Medis, any such notice being waived by the
Company and Medis to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply
any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final)
at any time held by, and other indebtedness at any time owing by, such Bank to
or for the credit or the account of the Company or Medis against any and all
Obligations owing to such Bank, now or hereafter existing, irrespective of
whether or not any of the Agents or such Bank shall have made demand under this
Agreement or any Loan Document and although such Obligations may be contingent
or unmatured and the Applicable Agent.  Each Bank agrees promptly to notify the
Company and the Agent and the Applicable Agent after any such set-off and
application made by such Bank; provided, however, that the failure to give such
                               --------  -------                               
notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application.

     10.11  Notification of Addresses, Lending Offices, Etc.  Each Bank shall
            -----------------------------------------------
notify the Agent and the Applicable Agent in writing of any changes in the
address to which notices to the Bank should be directed, of addresses of any
Lending Office, of payment instructions in respect of all payments to be made to
it 

                                      87
<PAGE>
 
hereunder and of such other administrative information as the Agent and the
Applicable Agent shall reasonably request.

     10.12  Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of
            ------------
separate counterparts, each of which, when so executed, shall be deemed an
original, and all of said counterparts taken together shall be deemed to
constitute but one and the same instrument.

     10.13  Severability.  The illegality or unenforceability of any provision
            ------------
of this Agreement or any instrument or agreement required hereunder shall not in
any way affect or impair the legality or enforceability of the remaining
provisions of this Agreement or any instrument or agreement required hereunder.

     10.14  No Third Parties Benefited.  This Agreement is made and entered
            --------------------------
into for the sole protection and legal benefit of the Borrowers, the Banks, the
Agents and the Agent-Related Persons, and their permitted successors and
assigns, and no other Person shall be a direct or indirect legal beneficiary of,
or have any direct or indirect cause of action or claim in connection with, this
Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents.

     10.15  Governing Law and Jurisdiction; Language.  (a) THIS AGREEMENT AND
            ----------------------------------------
THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA WITHOUT REFERENCE TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
MATTERS PERTAINING TO BANKERS' ACCEPTANCES SHALL, TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE, BE
GOVERNED BY THE BILLS OF EXCHANGE ACT (CANADA).

          (b) ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT OR
ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT MAY BE BROUGHT IN THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
OR OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA, AND BY
EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS AGREEMENT, EACH OF THE BORROWERS, THE AGENTS AND
THE BANKS CONSENTS, FOR ITSELF AND IN RESPECT OF ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NON-
EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THOSE COURTS.  EACH OF THE BORROWERS, THE AGENTS AND
THE BANKS IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION, INCLUDING ANY OBJECTION TO THE
LAYING OF VENUE OR BASED ON THE GROUNDS OF FORUM NON CONVENIENS, WHICH IT MAY
                                           --------------------              
NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE BRINGING OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN SUCH
JURISDICTION IN RESPECT OF THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY DOCUMENT RELATED HERETO.  THE
BORROWERS, THE AGENTS AND THE BANKS EACH WAIVE PERSONAL SERVICE OF ANY SUMMONS,
COMPLAINT OR OTHER PROCESS, WHICH MAY BE MADE BY ANY OTHER MEANS PERMITTED BY
CALIFORNIA LAW.

          (c) The Borrowers expressly require that this document and all
documents accessory hereto be drawn up in English and each Agent and each Bank,
because of the customer's requirement and by making such documents available to
the customer in the English language, expresses the same requirement.

                                      88
<PAGE>
 
          Les Emprunteurs requierent expressement que ce document et tous les
documents qui s'y rapportent soient rediges en langue anglaise et chaque
Mondataire et chaque Banque, a cause de cette exigence du client, exprime la
meme volonte en faisant en sorte que les documents en langue anglaise soient a
la disposition du client.

     10.16  Waiver of Jury Trial.  THE BORROWERS, THE BANKS AND THE AGENTS EACH
            --------------------
WAIVE THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO A TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION
BASED UPON OR ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT, THE OTHER LOAN
DOCUMENTS, OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY, IN ANY ACTION,
PROCEEDING OR OTHER LITIGATION OF ANY TYPE BROUGHT BY ANY OF THE PARTIES AGAINST
ANY OTHER PARTY OR ANY AGENT-RELATED PERSON, PARTICIPANT OR ASSIGNEE, WHETHER
WITH RESPECT TO CONTRACT CLAIMS, TORT CLAIMS, OR OTHERWISE.  THE BORROWERS, THE
BANKS AND THE AGENTS EACH AGREE THAT ANY SUCH CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION SHALL BE
TRIED BY A COURT TRIAL WITHOUT A JURY.  WITHOUT LIMITING THE FOREGOING, THE
PARTIES FURTHER AGREE THAT THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY IS WAIVED
BY OPERATION OF THIS SECTION AS TO ANY ACTION, COUNTERCLAIM OR OTHER PROCEEDING
WHICH SEEKS, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, TO CHALLENGE THE VALIDITY OR ENFORCEABILITY OF
THIS AGREEMENT OR THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS OR ANY PROVISION HEREOF OR THEREOF.
THIS WAIVER SHALL APPLY TO ANY SUBSEQUENT AMENDMENTS, RENEWALS, SUPPLEMENTS OR
MODIFICATIONS TO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS.

     10.17  Judgment.  If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court,
            --------
it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or any other Loan Document in one
currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which
in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase the first
currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which
final judgment is given.  The obligation of a Borrower in respect of any such
sum due from it to the Agent hereunder or under the other Loan Documents shall,
notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "Judgment Currency") other than
that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable
provisions of this Agreement (the "Agreement Currency"), be discharged only to
the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by the Agent of any sum
adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Agent may in accordance with
normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment
Currency.  If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the
sum originally due to the Agent in the Agreement Currency, the Borrowers agree,
as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the
Agent or the Person to whom such obligation was owing against such loss.  If the
amount of the Agreement currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally
due to the Agent in such currency, the Agent agrees to return the amount of any
excess to the applicable Borrower (or to any other Person who may be entitled
thereto under applicable law).

                                      89
<PAGE>
 
     10.18  Entire Agreement.  This Agreement, together with the other Loan
            ----------------
Documents, embodies the entire agreement and understanding among the Borrowers,
the Banks and the Agents, and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements
and understandings of such Persons, verbal or written, relating to the subject
matter hereof and thereof.

                                      90
<PAGE>
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
duly executed and delivered in San Francisco by their proper and duly authorized
officers as of the day and year first above written.

                                           McKESSON CORPORATION
                            
                                           By: 
                                               ----------------------
                                           Title: 
                                                  -------------------
                                                  Vice President Finance
                            
                                           MEDIS HEALTH AND PHARMACEUTICAL 
                                           SERVICES INC.
                            
                                           By: 
                                               ----------------------
                                           Title: 
                                                  -------------------
                                                  Vice President Finance
                                                  
                            
                            
                                           BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
                                           AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION,
                                           as Agent
                            
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title: 
                                                  ----------------------
                            
                                           BANK OF AMERICA CANADA, as
                                           Canadian Administrator Agent
                            
                                           By:  ________________________

                                           Title:  _____________________
                            
                            
                                           BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
                                           AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION, as a Bank
                            
                            
                                           By: _________________________

                                           Title: ______________________

                                      S-1
<PAGE>
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
duly executed and delivered in San Francisco by their proper and duly authorized
officers as of the day and year first above written.

                                           McKESSON CORPORATION
                            
                                           By: ______________________

                                           Title: ___________________
                            
                            
                                           MEDIS HEALTH AND PHARMACEUTICAL 
                                           SERVICES INC.
                            
                                           By: ______________________

                                           Title: ___________________
                            
                            
                                           BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
                                           AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION,
                                           as Agent
                            
                                           By: _________________________

                                           Title: ______________________

                                           BANK OF AMERICA CANADA as
                                           Canadian Administrator Agent
                            
                            
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title:   
                                                  ----------------------
                            
                                           BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
                                           AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION, as a Bank
                            
                            
                                           By: _________________________

                                           Title: ______________________

                                      S-1
<PAGE>
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
duly executed and delivered in San Francisco by their proper and duly authorized
officers as of the day and year first above written.

                                           McKESSON CORPORATION
                            
                                           By: ______________________

                                           Title: ___________________   
                            
                                           MEDIS HEALTH AND PHARMACEUTICAL 
                                           SERVICES INC.
                            
                                           By: ______________________

                                           Title: ___________________   
                            
                            
                                           BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
                                           AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION,
                                           as Agent
                            
                                           By:  ________________________

                                           Title:  _____________________

                            
                                           BANK OF AMERICA CANADA, as
                                           Canadian Administrator Agent
                            
                                           By:  ________________________

                                           Title:  _____________________
                            
                            
                                           BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
                                           AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION, as a Bank
                            
                            
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title: 
                                                  ----------------------

                                      S-1
<PAGE>
 
                                           BANK OF AMERICA CANADA, as a Bank
                                           
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title: 
                                                  ----------------------

                                      S-2
<PAGE>
 
                             CHEMICAL BANK

                             By: 
                                 -------------------------
                             Title:         
                                    ----------------------

                                      S-3
<PAGE>
 
                                           CHEMICAL BANK OF CANADA
                                           
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title:          
                                                  ----------------------

                                      S-4
<PAGE>
 
                                           THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK N.A.     
                                          
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title: 
                                                  ----------------------

                                      S-5
<PAGE>
 
                                           THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK OF CANADA
                                          
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title: 
                                                  

                                      S-6
<PAGE>
 
                                           MORGAN GUARANTY TRUST COMPANY
                                             OF NEW YORK
                                           
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title: 
                                                  ----------------------

                                      S-7
<PAGE>
 
                                           MORGAN BANK OF CANADA
        
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title: 
                                                  ----------------------
 
                                      S-8
<PAGE>
 
                                           FIRST INTERSTATE BANK OF CALIFORNIA
                                          
                                          
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title: 
                                                  ----------------------
                                          
                                          
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title: 
                                                  ----------------------

                                      S-9
<PAGE>
 
                                           ABN AMRO BANK N.V.
                                          
                                          
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title: 
                                                  ----------------------
                                          
                                          
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title: 
                                                  ----------------------

                                     S-10
<PAGE>
 
                                           ABN AMRO BANK CANADA
                                           Montreal Branch
                                         
                                         
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title: 
                                                  ----------------------
                                         
                                         
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title:   
                                                  ----------------------

                                     S-11
<PAGE>
 
                                           THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO
              
       
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title: 
                                                  ----------------------
              
                                     S-12
       
              
              
              
              
<PAGE>
 
                                           TORONTO DOMINION (TEXAS), INC.
                                          
                                          
                                           By: 
                                               -------------------------
                                           Title: 
                                                  ----------------------

                                     S-13
<PAGE>
 
                             THE TORONTO-DOMINION BANK


                             By: 
                                 -------------------------
                             Title: ______________________
                                        
                                        

                                     S-14
<PAGE>
 
                                 SCHEDULE 2.01
                                 -------------
                  COMMITMENTS/PRO RATA SHARES/AFFILIATE BANKS
                  -------------------------------------------

A.  Tranche A Banks
    ---------------

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     Tranche A             Tranche A
      Bank                Commitment           Pro Rata Share       Commitment          Pro Rata Share
      ----                ----------           --------------       ----------          --------------    
<S>                      <C>                   <C>                 <C>                  <C>    
Bank of America          $ 50,000,000                20%           $ 31,250,000         17.857142857%
National Trust 
and Savings                 
Association

Chemical Bank            $ 45,000,000                18%           $ 28,125,000         16.071428571%

The Chase                $ 30,000,000                12%           $ 18,750,000         10.714285714%
Manhattan Bank 
N.A.                               

Morgan Guaranty          $ 25,000,000                10%           $ 15,625,000          8.928571429%
Trust Company of 
New York                   

First Interstate         $ 25,000,000                10%           $ 25,000,000         14.285714286%
Bank of 
California                         

ABN AMRO Bank            $ 25,000,000                10%           $ 15,625,000          8.928571429%
N.V.                                          

The First                $ 25,000,000                10%           $ 25,000,000         14.285714286%
National Bank of 
Chicago                          

Toronto Dominion         $ 25,000,000                10%           $ 15,625,000          8.928571429%
(Texas), Inc.                              

Total:                   $250,000,000               100%           $175,000,000         100%
</TABLE> 
 

                                   Schedule
                                     2.01
<PAGE>
 
B.  Tranche B Banks
    --------------- 
 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION>  
                                                                       Tranche B
                                                                       Commitment of
                                                                       Bank and
                     Affiliate          Domestic        Canadian       Affiliate Bank     Tranche B Pro
    Bank                Bank              Bank            Bank         Combined           Rata Share
    ----             ---------          --------        --------       --------------     -------------
<S>                <C>                <C>             <C>              <C>                <C>     
Bank of            Bank of            Bank of         Bank of          $ 18,750,000       25%  
America            America            America         America   
National           Canada             National        Canada  
Trust &                               Trust & 
Savings                               Savings 
Association                           Association

Chemical Bank      Chemical Bank      Chemical Bank   Chemical Bank    $ 16,875,000       22.50%
                   of Canada                          of Canada

The Chase          The Chase          The Chase       The Chase        $ 11,250,000       15%
Manhattan          Manhattan          Manhattan       Manhattan
Bank N.A.          Bank of            Bank N.A.       Bank of
                   Canada                             Canada                     

Morgan             Morgan Bank        Morgan          Morgan Bank      $  9,375,000       12.50%
Guaranty           of Canada          Guaranty        of Canada
Trust Company                         Trust Company           
of New York                           of New York

ABN AMRO Bank      ABN AMRO Bank      ABN AMRO Bank   ABN AMRO Bank    $  9,375,000       12.50%
N.V.               Canada             N.V.            Canada

Toronto            The Toronto-       Toronto         The Toronto-     $  9,375,000       12.50%
Dominion           Dominion Bank      Dominion        Dominion Bank
Texas, (Inc.)                         Texas, (Inc.)       

Total:                                                                 $ 75,000,000       100% 
</TABLE>

                                   Schedule
                                     2.01
<PAGE>
 
                                 Schedule 5.11

(a)  As of the Closing Date, the listing below is a complete list of the
     corporate Subsidiaries of the Company.

(b)  As of the Closing Date, there is no outstanding Indebtedness of the Company
     and its Subsidiaries for borrowed money in excess of $10,000,000 that is
     secured by a Lien existing on property of the Company or any of its
     Subsidiaries.

                       ================================
                             McKESSON CORPORATION
                                  (DELAWARE)
                       ================================

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
=================================================================================================================================
DOMESTIC/FOREIGN CORPORATIONS                                            % OF                               STATE OF
   AND THEIR SUBSIDIARIES                                              OWNERSHIP                          INCORPORATION
=================================================================================================================================

<S>                                                                    <C>                                <C> 
Armor All Products Corporation                                           54.65                              Delaware
  Armor All International (FSC), Inc.                                   100                                 U.S. Virgin Islands
  Armor All Products GmbH                                               100                                 West Germany
  Armor All Products of Canada, Inc.                                    100                                 Canada
  Armor All Products (U.K.) Limited                                     100                                 England
Beldere Corporation                                                     100                                 California
  S.K.U., Inc.                                                           50                                 California
California Golden State Finance Company                                 100                                 California
Calox International, S.A.                                               100                                 Panama
  Calox Ecuatoriana, S.A.                                               100                                 Ecuador
  Calox Panamena, S.A.                                                   50                                 Panama
    Vehiculos Italianos, S.A.                                           100                                 Panama
    Capitales Asociados, S.A.                                            86.80                              Panama
      General Mills de Panama, S.A.                                      50                                 Panama
        Harinas y Cereales                                              100                                 Panama
        Industrial Tecnica Panamericana, S.A.                            50                                 Panama
        Semolas de Panama, S.A.                                          50                                 Panama
City Properties, S.A.                                                    20                                 Panama
Corporacion Bonima, S.A. DE C.V.                                         97.87                              El Salvador
  Comercial Farmaceutica Interamericana, S.A.                           100                                 Costa Rica
  Comercial Interamericana, S.A.                                        100                                 Dom. Republic
  Comercial Interamericana, S.A.                                        100                                 Guatemala
  Comercial Interamericana, S.A. de C.V.                                100                                 Honduras
  Corporacion Farmaceutica Interamericana, S.A.                         100                                 Nicaragua
  Distribuidores Especialidades, S.A.                                   100                                 Panama
Corporation of America                                                  100                                 California
Crocker Plaza Company                                                   100                                 Delaware
First Aid, Inc.                                                         100                                 California
  Zee Service, Inc.                                                     100                                 California
Flex-Master Technology Holdings, Inc.                                   100                                 California
Foremost Iran Corporation                                               100                                 California
Foremost-McKesson Property Company, Inc.                                100                                 California
  DC Land Company                                                       100                                 California
  DCAZ Land Company                                                     100                                 Delaware
  Foremost Homes Hawaii, Ltd.                                           100                                 Hawaii
  HF Land Company                                                       100                                 Delaware
</TABLE> 

                                       1

<PAGE>
 
                       ================================
                             McKESSON CORPORATION
                                  (DELAWARE)
                       ================================

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
=================================================================================================================================
DOMESTIC/FOREIGN CORPORATIONS                                            % OF                               STATE OF
   AND THEIR SUBSIDIARIES                                              OWNERSHIP                          INCORPORATION
=================================================================================================================================

<S>                                                                    <C>                                <C> 
Foremost Shir, Inc.                                                      100                                California
Foremost Tehran, Inc.                                                    100                                California
Golden State Company, Ltd.                                               100                                California
Golden State Insurance Company Limited                                   100                                Bermuda
Golden State Milk Products Company                                       100                                California
Goodman Manufacturing Company                                            100                                Pennsylvania
Healthcare Delivery Systems, Inc.                                        100                                Delaware
Intercal, Inc.                                                            15                                Panama
International Dairy Engineering Co. of Asia, Inc.                        100                                Nevada
Macfor International Finance Company                                     100                                Delaware
  La Vascongada, S.A.C. c I                                               10                                Argentina
McKesson Canada Inc.                                                     100                                Canada
  Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc.                          100                                Canada
    Good Neighbour Pharmacy Ltd.                                         100                                Canada
    Smith's Drug Store (Digby) Limited                                   100                                Canada
McKesson (Cayman Islands) Inc.                                           100                                Cayman Islands
  NADRO, S.A. de C.V.                                                     22.67                             Mexico
McKesson International Investment Corp.                                  100                                Delaware
  N.V. Medicopharma                                                      100                                The Netherlands
McKesson Outcomes Research Corporation                                   100                                Delaware
McKesson Transportation Systems, Inc.                                    100                                Delaware
McKesson Water Products Company                                          100                                California
  Hygeia Bottled Water, Inc.                                             100                                Texas
Millbrook Distribution Services Co.                                      100                                Indiana
Mohawk Liqueur Corporation                                               100                                Michigan
Penn-Chem Corporation                                                    100                                Pennsylvania
Sunbelt Beverage Corporation                                              20.26                             Delaware
Very Important Products, Inc.                                            100                                California
West Wholesale Drug Co.                                                  100                                Delaware
Zee Medical Canada, Inc.                                                 100                                Canada
</TABLE> 


                                       2
<PAGE>
 
                                SCHEDULE 10.02
                                --------------



           AGENT'S PAYMENT OFFICE, CANADIAN AGENT'S PAYMENT OFFICE,
           --------------------------------------------------------
                    OFFSHORE AND DOMESTIC LENDING OFFICES,
                    --------------------------------------
                             ADDRESSES FOR NOTICES
                             ---------------------


AGENT'S PAYMENT OFFICE
- ----------------------

Bank of America National Trust
  and Savings Association
ABA No. 1210-0035-8
Attention:  Agency Management Services #5596
For credit to Bancontrol
A/C No. 12333-15089
Ref:  McKesson Corporation


CANADIAN ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT'S PAYMENT OFFICE
- ----------------------------------------------

Royal Bank of Canada
Financial Institutions Client Service
180 Wellington Street West, 6th Floor
Toronto, Ontario M5J 1J1
Cdn. Dollar A/C No. 000053-9
Transit No. 07172 or
        via Swift Account: BOFACATT


BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
- ------------------------------
AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION, as Agent
- -----------------------          

Bank of America National Trust
and Savings Association
Agency Management Services #5596
1455 Market Street, 12th Floor
San Francisco, California 94103
Attention:  Ivo Bakovic, Vice President
Telephone:  (415) 622-1158
Facsimile:  (415) 622-4894





                                   Schedule
                                     10.02
<PAGE>
 
BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
- ------------------------------
AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION, as a Bank
- ----------------------------------

Domestic and Offshore Lending Office:

1850 Gateway Boulevard, Fourth Floor
Concord, California 94520-3281
Attention:  Shireen Watson, Account Administrator
Telephone:  (510) 885-7080
Facsimile:  (510) 675-7531, (510) 675-7532

Notices (other than Notices of Borrowing and Notices of
Conversion/Continuation):

Bank of America National Trust
and Savings Association
Credit Products No. 3838
555 California Street, 41st Floor
San Francisco, California 94104-1502
Attention:  Maria Vickroy-Peralta, Vice President
Telephone:  (415) 622-7198
Facsimile:  (415) 622-4585


BANK OF AMERICA CANADA, as a Bank
- ---------------------------------

Domestic and Offshore Lending Office:

Bank of America Canada
4 King Street West, 18th Floor
Toronto, Ontario M5H 1B6, Canada
Attention:  Lori Burek, Assistant Vice President
Telephone:  (416) 863-5346
Facsimile:  (416) 863-4040

Notices (other than Notices of Borrowing and Notices of
Conversion/Continuation):

Bank of America Canada
1250 Rene Levesque Blvd. West
43rd Floor
Montreal, Quebec H3B 4W8, Canada
Attention:  Gilles De Montignyl, Vice President
                 and General Manager
Telephone:  (514) 938-1600
Facsimile:  (514) 938-1601




                                   Schedule
                                     10.02
<PAGE>
 
CHEMICAL BANK
- -------------

Domestic and Offshore Lending Office:

270 Park Avenue, 10th Floor
New York, New York  10017
Attention:  Thomas Brennan
Telephone:  (212) 270-4263
Facsimile:  (212) 818-1456

Notices (other than Notices of Borrowing and Notices of
Conversion/Continuation):

270 Park Avenue, 10th Floor
New York, New York  10017
Attention:  David Corcoran
Telephone:  (212) 270-5032
Facsimile:  (212) 270-1403


CHEMICAL BANK OF CANADA
- -----------------------

Domestic and Offshore Lending Office:

Chemical Bank of Canada
100 Younge Street
Suite 900
Toronto, Ontario, M5C2W1, Canada
Attention:  Martha Tamayo
Telephone:  (416) 594-2223
Facsimile:  (416) 594-2240

Notices (other than Notices of Borrowing and Notices of
Conversion/Continuation):

Chemical Bank of Canada
100 Younge Street
Suite 900
Toronto, Ontario M5C2W1, Canada
Attention:  Martha Tamayo
Telephone:  (416) 594-2223
Facsimile:  (416) 594-2240

                                   Schedule
                                     10.02
<PAGE>
 
THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK N.A.
- -----------------------------

Domestic and Offshore Lending Office:

Two Chase Manhattan Plaza
New York, New York  10081
Attention:  Rocky Chan, Administrative Assistant
Telephone:  (212) 552-2920
Facsimile:  (212) 552-7375

Notices (other than Notices of Borrowing and Notices of
Conversion/Continuation):

One Chase Manhattan Plaza
New York, New York  10081
Attention:  Ellen Gertzog, Vice President
Telephone:  (212) 552-1721
Facsimile:  (212) 552-7075


THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK OF CANADA
- ----------------------------------

Domestic and Offshore Lending Office:

The Chase Manhattan Bank of Canada
150 King Street West
Suite 1600, Box 68
Toronto, Ontario, M5H 1J9, Canada
Attention:  Amanda Staff
Telephone:  (416) 585-3324
Facsimile:  (416) 586-3370

Notices (other than Notices of Borrowing and Notices of
Conversion/Continuation):

The Chase Manhattan Bank of Canada
150 King Street West
Suite 1600, Box 68
Toronto, Ontario M5H 1J9, Canada
Attention:  Arun Bery
Telephone:  (416) 585-3321
Facsimile:  (416) 586-3370


                                   Schedule
                                     10.02
<PAGE>
 
MORGAN GUARANTY TRUST COMPANY OF NEW YORK
- -----------------------------------------

Domestic Lending Office:

c/o J.P. Morgan Services, Inc.
500 Stanton Christiana Road
Newark, DE  19713-2107
Attention:  Jeannie Mattson, Associate
Telephone:  (302) 632-1938
Facsimile:  (302) 634-1092, (302) 634-1091

Offshore Lending Office:

Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York
Nasau Bahamas Office
c/o J.P. Morgan Services, Inc.
Euro-Loan Servicing Unit
902 Market Street
Wilmington, Delaware  19801
Telex No./Answerback:  177425 MRDEL UT

Notices (other than Notices of Borrowing and Notices of
Conversion/Continuation):

22/60 Wall Street
New York, New York  10260-0060
Attention:  David Ellis, Vice President
Telephone:  (212) 648-7638
Facsimile:  (212) 648-5014
Telex No./Answerback:  177615 MGT UT or 620106 MGT UW


MORGAN BANK OF CANADA
- ---------------------

Domestic and Offshore Lending Office:

Royal Bank Plaza
South Tower, 22nd Floor
Toronto, Ontario, M5J 2J2, Canada
Attention:  Gerda Grasshoff
Telephone:  (416) 981-9173
Facsimile:  (416) 981-9279

Notices (other than Notices of Borrowing and Notices of
Conversion/Continuation):

Royal Bank Plaza
South Tower, 22nd Floor
Toronto, Ontario, M5J 2J2, Canada
Attention:  Inna Zalz
Telephone:  (416) 981-9245
Facsimile:  (416) 981-9279



                                   Schedule
                                     10.02
<PAGE>
 
FIRST INTERSTATE BANK OF CALIFORNIA
- -----------------------------------

Domestic and Offshore Lending Office:

18700 N.W. Walker, Bldg. 92
Beaverton, OR  97006
Attention:  Patrice Bishop, Supervisor
Telephone:  (503) 614-6374
Facsimile:  (503) 614-5878

Notices (other than Notices of Borrowing and Notices of
Conversion/Continuation)

345 California Street, 23rd Floor
San Francisco, CA  94104
Attention:  Marianne Mitosinka, Vice President
Telephone:  (415) 773-7053
Facsimile:  (415) 773-7062


ABN AMRO BANK N.V.
- ------------------

Domestic and Offshore Lending Office:

101 California Street
Suite 4550
San Francisco, California  94111-5812
Attention:  Gloria Lee, Operations Officer
Telephone:  (415) 984-3720
Facsimile:  (415) 362-3524

Notices (other than Notices of Borrowing and Notices of
Conversion/Continuation):

101 California Street
Suite 4550
San Francisco, California  94111-5812
Attention:  Gina Brusatori, Vice President
Telephone:  (415) 984-3720
Facsimile:  (415) 362-3524



                                   Schedule
                                     10.02
<PAGE>
 
ABN AMRO BANK CANADA
- --------------------
Montreal Branch
- ---------------

Domestic and Offshore Lending Office:

2000 Peel Street
Suite 860
Montreal, Quebec, H3A 2W5, Canada
Attention:  Nathalie Patriarco
Telephone:  (514) 284-1133
Facsimile:  (514) 284-2357

Attention:  Nicole Richard
Telephone:  (514) 284-1133
Facsimile:  (514) 284-2357

Notices (other than Notices of Borrowing and Notices of
Conversion/Continuation):

2000 Peel Street
Suite 860
Montreal, Quebec, H3A 2W5, Canada
Attention:  Enrico Pallotta, Vice President
Telephone:  (514) 284-1133
Facsimile:  (514) 284-2357

Attention:  Aernout De Willebois, Assistant Vice President
Telephone:  (514) 284-1133
Facsimile:  (514) 284-2357


THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO
- ----------------------------------

Domestic and Offshore Lending Office:

One First National Plaza, 10th Floor
Suite 0634
Chicago, Illinois  60670-0363
Attention:  Marilyn E. Fisher, Customer Service Officer
Telephone:  (312) 732-7172
Facsimile:  (312) 732-4840

Notices (other than Notices of Borrowing and Notices of
Conversion/Continuation):

777 S. Figueroa Street, 4th Floor
Los Angeles, CA  90017-5800
Attention:  Michael P. Gage, Vice President
Telephone:  (213) 683-4976
Facsimile:  (213) 683-4949



                                   Schedule
                                     10.02
<PAGE>
 
TORONTO DOMINION (TEXAS), INC.
- ------------------------------

Domestic and Offshore Lending Office:

c/o The Toronto-Dominion Bank
909 Fannin, Suite 1700
Houston, Texas  77010
Attention:  Diane Baily, Manager-Credit Administration
Telephone:  (713) 653-8250
Facsimile:  (713) 951-9921

Notices (other than Notices of Borrowing and Notices of
Conversion/Continuation):

c/o The Toronto-Dominion Bank
909 Fannin
Suite 1700
Houston, Texas  77010
Attention:  John Geresi, Director, Corporate Accounts
Telephone:  (713) 653-8207
Facsimile:  (713) 262-1926


THE TORONTO-DOMINION BANK
- -------------------------

Domestic and Offshore Lending Office:

The Toronto-Dominion Bank
500 St. James Street, 5th Floor
Montreal, Quebec, H2Y 1S1, Canada
Attention:  Sylvie Lapointe
            Josiane Lauvigne
Telephone:  (514) 289-8339
Facsimile:  (514) 289-0988

Notices (other than Notices of Borrowing and Notices of
Conversion/Continuation):

The Toronto-Dominion Bank
500 St. James Street, 5th Floor
Montreal, Quebec, H2Y 1S1, Canada
Attention:  Jean Francois Gaudin
Telephone:  (514) 289-0102
Facsimile:  (514) 289-0788



                                   Schedule
                                     10.02
<PAGE>
 
                                   EXHIBIT A

                              NOTICE OF BORROWING
                              -------------------


                                                   Date:  ________________, ____


To:  Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association as Agent [and Bank
     of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative Agent]1 for the Banks parties
     to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 31, 1995 (as extended, renewed,
     amended or restated from time to time, the "Credit Agreement") among
                                                 ----------------        
     McKesson Corporation, Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc.,
     certain Banks which are signatories thereto, Chemical Bank, as Co-Agent,
     Bank of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative Agent, and Bank of
     America National Trust and Savings Association, as Agent


Ladies and Gentlemen:

     The undersigned, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") [and Medis Health and
                                                 -------                        
Pharmaceutical Services Inc. ("Medis")]/1/, refers to the Credit Agreement, the
terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined, and hereby gives you
notice irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Credit Agreement, of the
Borrowing specified below.

          1.  The Business Day of the proposed Borrowing is
     ________________________, ____.

          2.  The Borrower is _________________________.

          3.  The aggregate amount of the proposed Borrowing is
     $_____________________.

          4.  The Borrowing is to be comprised of $___________ of [Tranche A]
     [Tranche B Domestic] [Tranche B Canadian] Loans and is to be a [Base Rate]
     [CD Rate] [Offshore Rate] [Canadian Prime Rate] Loan.

          5.  The duration of the Interest Period for the [CD Rate Loans]
     [Offshore Rate Loans] included in the Borrowing shall be [_____ days]
     [_____ months].

          6.  The Applicable Currency is [Dollars] [Canadian Dollars].

     The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on
the date hereof, and will be true on the 

__________________

     /1/ Include bracket language only if Canadian Loans are requested.


                                      A-1
<PAGE>
 
date of the proposed Borrowing, before and after giving effect thereto and to
the application of the proceeds therefrom:

          (a)  the representations and warranties of the Borrowers contained in
     Article V of the Credit Agreement are true and correct as though made on
     and as of such date (except to the extent such representations and
     warranties relate to an earlier date, in which case they are true and
     correct as of such date);

          (b)  no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, or
     would result from such proposed Borrowing; [and]

          (c)  The proposed Borrowing will not cause the aggregate principal
     amount of all outstanding Tranche A Loans and the Total Utilization of
     Tranche B Commitments to exceed the combined Commitments [or the aggregate
     principal amount of all outstanding Tranche A Loans to exceed the combined
     Tranche A Commitments] [or the Total Utilization of Tranche B Commitments
     to exceed the Tranche B Commitments] of the Banks[.] [; and]

          [(d)/1/  Medis is a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company.]


                                                  MCKESSON CORPORATION


                                                  By:  _________________________

                                                  Title:  ______________________


                                                  [MEDIS HEALTH AND
                                                   PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES
                                                   INC.]/1/


                                                  By:  _________________________

                                                  Title:  ______________________





__________________________

     /1/  Include bracketed language only if Canadian Loans are requested.


                                      A-2
<PAGE>
 
                                   EXHIBIT B

                       NOTICE OF CONVERSION/CONTINUATION
                       ---------------------------------



                                                   Date:  ________________, ____


To:  Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, as Agent [and Bank
     of America Canada]/1/, as Canadian Administrative Agent, for the Banks
     parties to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 31, 1995 (as extended,
     renewed, amended or restated from time to time, the "Credit Agreement")
                                                          ----------------  
     among McKesson Corporation, Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.,
     certain Banks which are signatories thereto, Chemical Bank, as Co-Agent,
     Bank of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative Agent, and Bank of
     America National Trust and Savings Association, as Agent

Ladies and Gentlemen:

     The undersigned, McKesson Corporation  (the "Company") [and Medis Health
                                                  -------                    
and Pharmaceutical Services Inc. ("Medis")]/1/, refers to the Credit Agreement,
the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined, and hereby gives
you notice irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Credit Agreement, of the
[conversion] [continuation] of the Loans specified herein, that:

          1.  The Conversion/Continuation Date is ____________, ____.

          2.  The Borrower is ____________________.

          3.  The aggregate amount of the [Tranche A] [Tranche B Domestic]
     [Tranche B Canadian] Loans to be [converted] [continued] is 
     $______________.

          4.  The Loans are to be [converted into] [continued as] [CD Rate]
     [Offshore Rate] [Base Rate] [Canadian Prime Rate] Loans.

          5.  [If applicable:]  The duration of the Interest Period for the
     Loans included in the [conversion] [continuation] shall be [____ days]
     [____ months].

     The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on
the date hereof, and will be true on the proposed Conversion/Continuation Date,
before and after giving effect thereto and to the application of the proceeds
therefrom:


______________________

     /1/ Include bracket language only if Canadian Loans are the subject of this
notice.



                                      B-1
<PAGE>
 
          (a) the representations and warranties of the Borrowers contained in
     Article V of the Credit Agreement are true and correct as though made on
     and as of such date (except to the extent such representations and
     warranties relate to an earlier date, in which case they are true and
     correct as of such date);

          (b) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, or
     would result from such proposed [conversion] [continuation]; [and]

          (c) the proposed [conversion][continuation] will not cause the
     aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Tranche A Loans and the Total
     Utilization of Tranche B Commitments to exceed the combined Commitments [or
     the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Tranche A Loans to exceed
     the combined Tranche A Commitments] [or the Total Utilization of Tranche B
     Commitments to exceed the Tranche B Commitments] of the Banks[.] [; and]

          [(d) Medis is a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company.]/1/


                                               MCKESSON CORPORATION


                                               By:  _________________________

                                               Title:  ______________________


                                               [MEDIS HEALTH AND
                                               PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES INC.]/1/


                                               By:  _________________________

                                               Title:  ______________________





______________________

     /1/ Include bracketed language only if Canadian Loans are the subject of
this notice.



                                      B-2
<PAGE>
 
                                   EXHIBIT C


                             McKESSON CORPORATION
                             --------------------
                            COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE
                            ----------------------



                                             Financial
                                             Statement Date:  ____________, ____


     Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of March 31,
1995 (as extended, renewed, amended or restated from time to time, the "Credit
                                                                        ------
Agreement") among McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"),
- ---------                                                            -------   
Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc. ("Medis"), the several financial
institutions from time to time parties to this Credit Agreement (the "Banks"),
                                                                      -----   
Chemical Bank, as Co-Agent, Bank of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative
Agent, and Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, as agent for
the Banks (in such capacity, the "Agent").  Unless otherwise defined herein,
                                  -----                                     
capitalized terms used herein have the respective meanings assigned to them in
the Credit Agreement.

     The undersigned Responsible Officer of Company hereby certifies as of the
date hereof that he/she is the ______________ of the Company, and that, as such,
he/she is authorized to execute and deliver this Certificate to the Banks and
the Agent on the behalf of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries, and
that:

[Use the following paragraph if this Certificate is delivered in connection with
the financial statements required by subsection 6.01(a) of the Credit
Agreement.]

     1.   Attached as Schedule 1 hereto are (a) a true and correct copy of the
                      ----------                                              
audited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its consolidated
Subsidiaries as at the end of the fiscal year ended _______________, ____ and
(b) the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders'
equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in
comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year and accompanied by the
opinion of Deloitte & Touche or another nationally-recognized certified
independent public accounting firm (the "Independent Auditor") which report
                                         -------------------               
shall state that such consolidated financial statements present fairly the
financial position for the periods indicated in conformity with GAAP applied on
a basis consistent with prior years.

                                      OR

[Use the following paragraph if this Certificate is delivered in connection with
the financial statements required by subsection 6.01(b) of the Credit
Agreement.]


                                      C-1
<PAGE>
 
     1.   Attached as Schedule 1 hereto are (a) a true and correct copy of the
                      ----------                                              
unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its consolidated
Subsidiaries as of the end of the fiscal quarter ended __________, ____, and (b)
the related unaudited consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity,
and cash flows for the period commencing on the first day and ending on the last
day of such quarter, and certified by a Responsible Officer that such financial
statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP (subject only to ordinary, good
faith year-end audit adjustments) and fairly present the financial position and
the results of operations of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries.

     2.   The undersigned has reviewed and is familiar with the terms of the
Credit Agreement and has made, or has caused to be made under their supervision,
a detailed review of the transactions and conditions (financial or otherwise) of
the Company during the accounting period covered by the attached financial
statements.

     3.   To the best of the undersigned's knowledge, each Borrower, during such
period, has observed, performed or satisfied all of their respective covenants
and other agreements, and satisfied every condition in the Credit Agreement to
be observed, performed or satisfied by each Borrower, and the undersigned has no
knowledge of any Default or Event of Default.

     4.   The following financial covenant analyses and information set forth on
                                                                                
Schedule 2 attached hereto are true and accurate on and as of the date of this
- ----------                                                                    
Certificate.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Certificate as of
___________________, ____.


                                           MCKESSON CORPORATION



                                           By: ______________________________

                                           Title: ___________________________



                                      C-2
<PAGE>
 
                                                      Date: ______________, ____
                                                     For the fiscal quarter/year
                                                      ended ______________, ____


                                  SCHEDULE 2
                                  ----------
                         to the Compliance Certificate
                                 ($ in 000's)


Section 7.04

Maximum Total Debt to
 Capitalization Ratio
 --------------------


1.   Total Capitalization

     (a)   Total Debt                         $__________
     (b)   Capital stock and
           additional paid-in-capital         $__________
     (c)   Retained earnings
           (accumulated deficits)             $__________

     Sum of (a), (b) and (c):                 $__________

2.   Ratio of Total Debt (Item 1(a)) to
     Total Capitalization (Item 1(d)):     _____:_____

3.   Maximum Ratio Permitted under Section
     7.04:                                      0.565:1.00



                                      C-3
<PAGE>
 
                                  EXHIBIT D-1

                 [FORM OF] LEGAL OPINION OF COMPANY'S COUNSEL
                 --------------------------------------------



                                [Closing Date]


Bank of America National Trust and
  Savings Association,
  as Agent

     and

The Co-Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent
 and Banks Listed on Schedule A Hereto

          Re:  Credit Agreement dated as of March 31, 1995 among McKesson
               Corporation, Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc., the
               financial institutions listed therein as Banks, Chemical Bank, as
               Co-Agent, Bank of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative
               Agent, and Bank of America National Trust and Savings
               Association, as Agent

Ladies and Gentlemen:

          I am a Vice President and the General Counsel of McKesson Corporation,
a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and have represented the Company and
                             -------                                        
Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc., an Ontario corporation ("Medis"),
in connection with that certain Credit Agreement dated as of March 31, 1995 (the
"Credit Agreement") among the Company, Medis, the financial institutions listed
 ----------------                                                              
therein as Banks ("Banks"), Chemical Bank, as Co-Agent, Bank of America Canada,
                   -----                                                       
as Canadian Administrative Agent, and Bank of America National Trust and Savings
Association, as Agent ("Agent").  This opinion is rendered to you in compliance
                        -----                                                  
with subsection 4.01(e)(i) of the Credit Agreement.  Capitalized terms used
herein without definition have the same meanings as in the Credit Agreement.

          In my capacity as such counsel, I have examined originals, or copies
identified to our satisfaction as being true copies, of such records, documents
or other instruments as in our judgment are necessary or appropriate to enable
me to render the opinions expressed below.  These records, documents and
instruments included the following:

          (a) The Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended to
     date, and the Articles of Incorporation of Medis, as amended to date;



                                     D-1-1
<PAGE>
 
          (b) The Bylaws of the Company and of Medis, as amended to date;

          (c) All records of proceedings and actions of the Board of Directors
     of the Company and Medis relating to the Credit Agreement and the other
     Loan Documents and the transactions contemplated thereby;

          (d) The Credit Agreement;
              
          (e) The Guaranty;
              
          (f) The Pledge Agreement;
              
          (g) The Custodial Agreement; and
              
          (h) The Notes.

          I have been furnished with, and with Banks' consent have relied upon,
certificates of officers of the Company with respect to certain factual matters,
copies of which have been delivered to Banks.  In addition, I have obtained and
relied upon such certificates and assurances from public officials as I have
deemed necessary, copies of which have been delivered to Banks.  In all such
examinations, I have assumed the genuineness of all signatures on original and
certified documents, and the conformity to original or certified documents of
all documents submitted to me as conformed or photostatic copies.

          I have investigated such questions of law for the purpose of rendering
this opinion as I have deemed necessary.  I am opining herein as to the effect
on the subject transactions of only United States Federal law, the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the laws of the State of
California.  With respect to my opinion in paragraph 3 below with respect to
Medis and to the extent governed by Canadian law, I have relied on the opinion
of Blake, Cassels & Graydon, special Canadian counsel to Medis, a copy of which
has been delivered to you.

          On the basis of the foregoing, and in reliance thereon, and subject to
the limitations, qualifications and exceptions set forth below, I am of the
opinion that:

          1.  The Company is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and
in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation and has all
requisite corporate power and authority to own and operate its properties and to
carry on its business as now conducted.

          2.  The Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to
execute, deliver and perform the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents
to which it is a party, to issue the Notes issued by Company on the date hereof
and to carry out the transactions contemplated thereby.



                                     D-1-2
<PAGE>
 
          3.  The execution, delivery and performance of the Credit Agreement
and the other Loan Documents and the issuance and payment of the Notes have been
duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of Company.  The
Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents and the Notes that have been
delivered on the date hereof have been duly executed and delivered by Company
and Medis, as applicable, and constitute the legally valid and binding
obligations of Company and Medis, respectively, enforceable against Company and
Medis in accordance with their respective terms.

          4.  Neither the execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement and
the other Loan Documents nor the issuance and payment of the Notes or Drafts nor
the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement and
the other Loan Documents nor the compliance with the terms and conditions
thereof by any Borrower (A) conflicts with, results in a breach or violation of,
or constitutes a default under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of
(x) the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or other organizational documents
of the Company, McKesson Canada Inc. (which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company and owns 100% of the capital stock of Medis) ("McKesson Canada") or
Medis, (y) any term of any material agreement, instrument, order, writ, judgment
or decree to which the Company, McKesson Canada Inc. or Medis is a party or by
which any of its respective properties or assets are bound, or (z) any present
federal or California statute, rule or regulation or provision of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware binding on the Company, McKesson Canada
or Medis, or (B) results in the creation of any Lien upon any of the properties
or assets of the Company, McKesson Canada or Medis under any agreement or order
referred to in clause (y) above (other than Liens created pursuant to the
Collateral Documents).

          5.  No consents or approvals of, authorizations by, or registrations,
declarations or filings with, any federal, Delaware or California governmental
authority are required by any Borrower in connection with the execution and
delivery by Borrowers of the Credit Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the
extensions of credit under the Credit Agreement or the issuance and payment of
the Notes or the Drafts.

          6.  To the best of my knowledge after due inquiry, there are no
actions, suits or proceedings pending or threatened against the Company or any
of its Subsidiaries which have a significant likelihood of materially and
adversely affecting either the ability of any Borrower to perform its
obligations under any Loan Document or the financial condition or operations of
Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.

          7.  The making of the Loans, the issuance of the Drafts and the
application of the proceeds thereof as provided in the Credit Agreement do not
violate Regulation G, T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System.


                                     D-1-3
<PAGE>
 
          8.  It is not necessary in connection with the execution and delivery
of the Notes to Banks to register the Notes or the Loans under the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, or to qualify any indenture in respect thereof under
the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.

          9.  The Company is not an "investment company" or a company
"controlled" by an "investment company" as such terms are defined in the
Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.

          My opinions in paragraph 5 above and in clause (y) of paragraph 4
above are limited to laws and regulations normally applicable to transactions of
the type contemplated in the Loan Documents and do not extend to licenses,
permits and approvals necessary for the conduct of the Company's or Midis'
business.  In addition and without limiting the previous sentence, I express no
opinion herein with respect to the effect of any land use, environmental or
similar law, any state or federal antitrust law, state or federal securities
laws, or any local law.

          The opinions set forth above are subject to the following
qualifications, assumptions, limitations and exceptions:

          (a) The validity, binding nature and enforceability of the Company's
and Medis' obligations under the Loan Documents are subject to the effect of (i)
bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, arrangement, moratorium, fraudulent
transfer and other similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally;
(ii) the discretion of any court of competent jurisdiction in awarding equitable
remedies, including, without limitation, specific performance or injunctive
relief, and the effect of general principles of equity embodied in California
statutes and common law; and (iii) the effect of California court decisions and
statutes which indicate that provisions of the Loan Documents which permit the
Agent, any of the Banks or any other Person to take action or make
determinations may be subject to a requirement that such action be taken or such
determinations be made on a reasonable basis in good faith or that it be shown
that such action is reasonably necessary for the protection of the Agent, such
Bank or such other Person.

          (b) I express no opinion as to:

               (1) the enforceability of provisions of the Loan Documents
pursuant to which the Company or Medis agrees to make payments without set-off,
defense or counterclaim;

               (2) provisions purporting to require the award or payment of
attorneys' fees, expenses or costs, where such provisions do not satisfy, where
applicable, the requirements of California Civil Code (S)1717 et seq, or in any
                                                              -- ---
action where the Agent or any Bank is not the prevailing party;



                                     D-1-4
<PAGE>
 
               (3) under certain circumstances, provisions to the effect that
rights or remedies are not exclusive, that every right or remedy is cumulative
and may be exercised in addition to or with any other right or remedy, that the
election of some particular remedy or remedies does not preclude recourse to one
or another remedy or that failure to exercise or delay in exercising rights or
remedies will not operate as a waiver of any such right or remedy;

               (4) provisions prohibiting waivers of any terms of provisions of
any of the Loan Documents other than in writing, or prohibiting oral
modifications thereof or modification by course of dealing to the extent such
provisions are inconsistent with applicable law;

               (5) the enforceability under certain circumstances or provisions
indemnifying a party against, or requiring contributions toward, that party's
liability for its own wrongful or negligent acts or where such indemnification
or contribution is contrary to public policy or prohibited by law;

               (6) any provision providing for the exclusive jurisdiction of a
particular court or purporting to waive rights to trial by jury, service of
process or objections to the laying of venue or to forum on the basis of forum
non conveniens, in connection with any litigation arising our of or pertaining
- --- ----------
to the Loan Documents;

               (7) provisions providing for an increase in the rate of interest
or imposing a late charge or penalty in the event of delinquency or default to
the extent that such charge constitutes a penalty;

               (8) provisions purporting to waive statutory or common law
rights, including the right to receive notice or to be allowed to cure,
reinstate or redeem in the event of default, and provisions expressly or by
implication waiving broadly or vaguely stated rights, unknown future rights and
defenses to obligations, in each case to the extent such rights or defenses are
not waivable under applicable law;

               (9) provisions purporting to waive any applicable statutes of
limitation to the extent not waivable under applicable law;

               (10) provisions authorizing any Bank to set off and apply any
deposits at any time held, and any other indebtedness at any time owing, by such
Bank to or for the account of the Company; and

               (11) provisions purporting to permit foreclosure on collateral
other than in compliance with Division 9 of the California Uniform Commercial
Code.



                                     D-1-5
<PAGE>
 
          (c) My opinions are subject to the effect of judicial decisions which
may permit the introduction of extrinsic evidence to interpret the terms of
written contracts.

          (d) Insofar as this opinion letter concerns the law of the State of
California limiting the rates of interest legally chargeable or collectible, I
have relied upon my understanding that each of the Banks is (i) a subsidiary of
a bank holding company or is a bank organized under the laws of the United
States or any State hereof or (ii) a foreign (other nation) bank within the
meaning of (S)1716 of the California Financial Code, and such Bank (A) has
assets equal to at least $100,000,000, (B) is licensed to maintain an office in
California, (C) is licensed or otherwise authorized by another state of the
United States to maintain an agency or branch in such state, or (D) maintains a
Federal agency or Federal branch in any state of the United States and, as a
result thereof, is exempt from the restrictions of Sections 1 of Article XV of
the Constitution of the State of California relating to rates of interest upon
the loan of money.  I further assume in this regard that all Loans have been and
will be made by the Banks for their own account and without intent to circumvent
otherwise applicable interest rate limitations under California law and that
there is no present express or implied agreement or plan to sell participations
or any other interest in the Loans or the Credit Agreement to any Person other
than a Person that also qualifies for an exemption from the interest rate
limitations of California law.

          (e) I wish to point out that the Banks, as holders of the Notes, may
be required to prove the outstanding amount thereof.

          (f) I have assumed that each Bank has complied with any applicable
requirements to file returns or pay California taxes as required by California
Revenue and Taxation Code (S)23301 et seq.
                                   -- --- 

          (g) For purposes of my opinion expressed in paragraph 8 above, I have
assumed, with your consent, that each Bank is taking the Notes payable to it for
its own account in the ordinary course of its commercial banking business and
not with a view to or for sale in connection with any distribution of the Notes.

          To the extent that the obligations of Company or Medis may be
dependent upon such matters, I have assumed for purposes of this opinion, other
than with respect to Company or Medis, that each additional party to the
agreements and contracts referred to herein is duly organized, validly existing
and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization; that
each such other party has the requisite corporate or other organizational power
and authority to perform its obligations under such agreements and contracts, as
applicable; and that such agreements and contracts have been duly authorized,
executed and 



                                     D-1-6
<PAGE>
 
delivered by, and each of them constitutes the legally valid and binding
obligation of, such other parties, as applicable, enforceable against such other
parties in accordance with their respective terms. Except as expressly stated in
this opinion, I am not expressing any opinion as to the effect of compliance by
any Bank with any state or federal laws or regulations applicable to the
transactions because of the nature of any of its businesses.

          This opinion is rendered only to Agent, Co-Agent, Canadian
Administrative Agent and Banks and is solely for their benefit in connection
with the above transactions.  This opinion may not be relied upon by Agent, Co-
Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent or Banks for any other purpose, or used by,
disseminated, circulated or quoted to or relied upon by any other person, firm,
corporation, or other entity for any purpose without my prior written consent.
Any Bank listed on Schedule A hereto may, however, deliver a copy of this
                   ----------                                            
opinion to any Eligible Assignee that becomes a party to the Credit Agreement
and any such Eligible Assignee may rely on this opinion as if it were addressed
and has been delivered to it on the date hereof.

                                          Very truly yours,




                                     D-1-7
<PAGE>
 
                                  EXHIBIT D-2

                  [FORM OF] LEGAL OPINION OF CANADIAN COUNSEL
                  -------------------------------------------



                                [Closing Date]


Bank of America National Trust and
  Savings Association,
  as Agent

     and

The Co-Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent
 and Banks Listed on Schedule A Hereto

          Re:  Credit Agreement dated as of March 31, 1995 among McKesson
               Corporation, Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc., the
               financial institutions listed therein as Banks, Chemical Bank, as
               Co-Agent, Bank of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative
               Agent, and Bank of America National Trust and Savings
               Association, as Agent

Ladies and Gentlemen:

          We have acted as special Canadian counsel to McKesson Corporation, a
Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Medis Health and Pharmaceutical
                           -------                                       
Services Inc., a corporation incorporated under the laws of the Province of
Ontario, Canada ("Medis"), in connection with that certain Credit Agreement
dated as of March 31, 1995 (the "Credit Agreement") among the Company, Medis,
                                 ----------------                            
the financial institutions listed therein as Banks ("Banks"), Chemical Bank, as
                                                     -----                     
Co-Agent, Bank of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative Agent, and Bank of
America National Trust and Savings Association, as Agent ("Agent").  This
                                                           -----         
opinion is rendered to you in compliance with subsection 4.01(e)(ii) of the
Credit Agreement.  Capitalized terms used herein without definition have the
same meanings as in the Credit Agreement.

          In our capacity as such counsel, we have examined originals, or copies
identified to our satisfaction as being true copies, of such records, documents
or other instruments as in our judgment are necessary or appropriate to enable
us to render the opinions expressed below.  These records, documents and
instruments included the following:

          (a) The Articles of Incorporation of Medis, as amended to date;

          (b) The Bylaws of Medis, as amended to date;



                                     D-2-1
<PAGE>
 
          (c) All records of proceedings and actions of the Board of Directors
     of Medis relating to the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents and
     the transactions contemplated thereby;

          (d) The Credit Agreement; and

          (e) The form of Note (the "Note") and the form of Draft ("Draft") to
     be issued by Medis under the Credit Agreement.

          In addition, we have obtained and relied upon such certificates and
assurances from public officials as we have deemed necessary, copies of which
have been delivered to Banks.  In all such examinations, we have assumed the
genuineness of all signatures on original and certified documents, and the
conformity to original or certified documents of all documents submitted to me
as conformed or photostatic copies.

          We have investigated such questions of law for the purpose of
rendering this opinion as we have deemed necessary.  We are opining herein as to
the effect on the subject transactions of only the laws of the Province of
Ontario and the laws of Canada applicable therein.

          On the basis of the foregoing, and in reliance thereon, and subject to
the limitations, qualifications, assumptions and exceptions set forth below, we
are of the opinion that:

          1.  Based solely on the certificate of status dated [____________]
issued by the Ontario Ministry of Consumer and Commercial Relations with respect
to Medis, it is a subsisting corporation under the laws of Ontario, being its
jurisdiction of incorporation.  Medis has all requisite corporate power and
authority to own and operate its properties and to carry on its business as now
conducted.

          2.  Medis has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute,
deliver and perform its obligations under the Credit Agreement, and to issue the
Notes and the Drafts and to carry out the transactions contemplated thereby.

          3.  The execution, delivery and performance of the Credit Agreement
and the issuance and payment of the Notes and the Drafts have been duly
authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of Medis.  The Credit
Agreement and the Notes issued by Medis on the date hereof have been duly
executed and delivered by Medis.

          4.  Neither the execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement nor
the issuance and payment of the Notes or the Drafts nor the consummation of the
transactions contemplated to be performed by Medis under the Credit Agreement
and the other Loan Documents nor the compliance with the terms and conditions



                                     D-2-2
<PAGE>
 
thereof by Medis conflicts with, results in a breach or violation of, or
constitutes a default under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of (x)
the Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws of Medis or (y) any present Ontario or
Canadian statute, rule or regulation binding on Medis or any of its
Subsidiaries.

          5.  No consents or approvals of, authorizations by, or registrations,
declarations or filings with, any Ontario or Canadian governmental authority are
required by Medis in connection with the execution and delivery by Medis of the
Credit Agreement or the extensions of credit to Medis under the Credit Agreement
or the issuance and payment of the Notes or the Drafts.

          6.  The execution and delivery of the Notes and the Drafts to the
Canadian Tranche B Banks, and any subsequent assignment by a Bank of any Note or
Draft held by it, are exempt from the registration and prospectus requirements
of the Securities Act (Ontario).

          The foregoing opinions are subject to the following limitations,
qualifications, assumptions and exceptions:

          (i)  The Credit Agreement and the Notes are governed by the laws of
the State of California. We express no opinion as to the enforceability of the
Credit Agreement or of any provision thereof. It should be noted that a judgment
in money rendered by a court in the Province of Ontario must be awarded in
Canadian currency and that any requirement that interest be paid at a higher
rate after than before default may not be enforceable.

          (ii) Our opinions in paragraph 5 above as to compliance with certain
statutes, rules and regulations and as to the lack of any required consents or
approvals of, authorizations by, or registrations, declarations or filings with
certain governmental authorities is based upon a review of those statutes, rules
and regulations which, in our experience, are normally applicable to
transactions of the type contemplated by the Credit Agreement and the other Loan
Documents.

         (iii) For purposes of our opinion expressed in paragraph 6 above, we
have assumed, with your consent, that each Tranche B Canadian Bank is taking the
Notes payable to it and the Drafts for its own account in the ordinary course of
its commercial banking business and not with a view to or for sale in connection
with any distribution of the Notes or the Drafts.

          (iv) To the extent that the obligations of Medis may be dependent upon
such matters, we have assumed for purposes of this opinion, other than with
respect to Medis, that each additional party to the agreements and contracts
referred to herein is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing
under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization; that each such other party
has the requisite corporate or other organizational power and authority to
perform its obligations under such agreements and 

                                     D-2-3
<PAGE>
 
contracts, as applicable; and that such agreements and contracts have been duly
authorized, executed and delivered by, and each of them constitutes the legally
valid and binding obligation of, such other parties, as applicable, enforceable
against such other parties in accordance with their respective terms. Except as
expressly stated in this opinion, we are not expressing any opinion as to the
effect of compliance by any Bank with any Ontario provincial or Canadian federal
laws or regulations applicable to the transactions because of the nature of any
of its businesses.

           (v) It is assumed that each of the Banks is acquiring the Notes or
Drafts as principal and that each of the Banks is a bank listed in Schedule I or
II to the Bank Act (Canada).

          (vi) It is assumed that any Note or Draft that is assigned by a Bank
is assigned to a person acquiring the Note or Draft as principal for its own
account and not for the benefit of any other person; that the aggregate
acquisition cost to an assignee of a Note or a Draft is at least Cdn. $150,000;
and that any assignee of a Note or a Draft is a corporation which was not
created solely to acquire securities or to permit the purchase of securities
without a prospectus in reliance on exemptions from the prospectus requirements
of the Securities Act (Ontario); that any assignment of a Note or a Draft is not
accompanied by any advertisement in printed media of general and regular paid
circulation, radio or television; that prior to the assignment of a Note or a
Draft no unusual effort is made to prepare the market or to create a demand for
the Note or the Draft and no extraordinary commission or consideration is paid
in respect of the assignment of the Note or the Draft; and that at the time of
assignment of a Note or a Draft by a Bank; such Bank is not a person or a
combination persons holding either a sufficient number of any securities of
Medis to affect materially the control of Medis or more than 20% of the
outstanding voting securities of Medis.

          This opinion is rendered only to Agent, Co-Agent, Canadian
Administrative Agent and Banks and is solely for their benefit in connection
with the above  transactions.  This opinion may not be relied upon by Agent, Co-
Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent or Banks for any other purpose, or quoted
to or relied upon by any other person, firm or corporation for any purpose
without our prior written consent.  Any Bank listed on Schedule A hereto may,
                                                       ----------            
however, deliver a copy of this opinion to any Eligible Assignee that becomes a
party to the Credit Agreement and any such Eligible Assignee may rely on this
opinion as if it were addressed and has been delivered to it on the date hereof.

                                                     Very truly yours,

                                     D-2-4
<PAGE>
 
                                  EXHIBIT D-3

                     [FORM OF] LEGAL OPINION RE COLLATERAL
                     -------------------------------------



                                [Closing Date]


Bank of America National Trust and
  Savings Association,
  as Agent

     and

The Co-Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent
 and Banks Listed on Schedule A Hereto

          Re:  Credit Agreement dated as of March 31, 1995 among McKesson
               Corporation, Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc., the
               financial institutions listed therein as Banks, Chemical Bank, as
               Co-Agent, Bank of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative
               Agent, and Bank of America National Trust and Savings
               Association, as Agent

Ladies and Gentlemen:

          We have acted as special counsel to McKesson Corporation, a Delaware
corporation ("Company"), in connection with that certain Credit Agreement dated
              -------                                                          
as of March 31, 1995 (the "Credit Agreement") among Company, Medis Health and
                           ----------------                                  
Pharmaceutical Services Inc., the financial institutions listed therein as Banks
("Banks"), Chemical Bank, as Co-Agent, Bank of America Canada, as Canadian
  -----                                                                   
Administrative Agent, and Bank of America National Trust and Savings
Association, as Agent ("Agent").  This opinion is rendered to you in compliance
                        -----                                                  
with subsection 4.01(e)(iii) of the Credit Agreement.  Capitalized terms used
herein without definition have the same meanings as in the Credit Agreement.

          In our capacity as such counsel, we have examined originals, or copies
identified to our satisfaction as being true copies, of such records, documents
or other instruments as in our judgment are necessary or appropriate to enable
us to render the opinions expressed below.  These records, documents and
instruments included the following:

          (a) The Credit Agreement;

          (b) The Guaranty;

          (c) The Pledge Agreement;

                                     D-3-1
<PAGE>
 
          (d) The Custodial Agreement;

          (e) The Custodial Acknowledgment Agreement; and

          (f) The opinion dated of even date herewith from Ivan D. Meyerson,
              Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, delivered to
              you in compliance with subsection 4.01(e)(i) of the Credit
              Agreement (the "Meyerson Opinion");

          In all such examinations, we have assumed the genuineness of all
signatures on original and certified documents, and the conformity to original
or certified documents of all documents submitted to us as conformed or
photostatic copies.

          Based upon the Meyerson Opinion, we have assumed that the Credit
Agreement, the Guaranty, the Pledge Agreement, the Custodial Acknowledgment
Agreement and the Custodial Agreement have been duly authorized, executed and
delivered by the Company, and are binding upon and enforceable against the
Company.  We further assume that neither the Agent nor the Banks know of any
agreements, understandings or negotiations between the parties not set forth in
the Loan Documents that would modify the terms or rights or obligations of the
parties thereunder with respect to the Collateral under the Pledge Agreement.

          We have also assumed that the Company has rights in the Collateral and
the Loan Documents are binding upon and enforceable against the Banks.  We
express no opinion as to the priority of any security interests except as
expressly set forth below.

          We have investigated such questions of law for the purpose of
rendering this opinion as we have deemed necessary.  We are opining herein as to
the effect on the subject transactions of Articles 8 and 9 of the Uniform
Commercial Code as in effect in the States of California and New York
(respectively the "CUCC" and the "NYUCC").  In the case of the NYUCC, we have
relied upon the language of Articles 8 and 9 thereof published in what we
believe are reliable compilations.  We express no opinion as to the laws of any
jurisdiction other than the law of California, the federal law of the United
States and, with respect to the opinion expressed in paragraph 1 below, Articles
8 and 9 of the NYUCC.

          On the basis of the foregoing, and in reliance thereon, and subject to
the limitations, qualifications and exceptions set forth below, we are of the
opinion that:

          The Pledge Agreement and the Custodial Acknowledgment Agreement,
together with the "transfer" (as described below) of the U.S. Government Book-
Entry Securities (as defined below), to the Financial Intermediary (as defined
below) in the State of 

                                     D-3-2
<PAGE>
 
California or the State of New York, create in favor of Agent a perfected
security interest under the Uniform Commercial Code in the U.S. Government Book-
Entry Securities. No action other than "transfer" of such securities to the
Custodian is required to maintain perfection of such security interest. Assuming
that the Custodian acquires its security interest in the U.S. Government Book-
Entry Securities in good faith and without notice of any adverse claims, the
security interest of Agent in the U.S. Government Book-Entry Securities will be
prior to any other security interest in such securities which may be created
under the CUCC and the NYUCC, other than liens on securities referred to in
Section 8-321(2) of the CUCC and the NYUCC which may be perfected without
possession for a period of 21 days (but only for so long as such interest
remains perfected pursuant to Section 8-321(2) after a transfer pursuant to
Section 8-313(1)(i) of the CUCC or the NYUCC without any further action). For
purposes of this paragraph, (i) "U.S. Government Book-Entry Securities" means
securities issued by the U.S. Treasury which are maintained in book-entry form
on the records of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and (ii) "transfer" means
(A) the making and maintaining by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York of
appropriate entries transferring the U.S. Government Book-Entry Securities on
its books and records to the book-entry account of the Custodian at the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, (B) the sending of the confirmation (which may include
permitting on-line access to the Custodian's records as to the Custodial Account
in a manner which permits the accessing person to print out the contents of such
records) by the Custodian to the Company or to Company's broker confirming the
purchase by Company of such U.S. Government Book-Entry Securities, (C) the
deposit and maintenance in the Restricted Collateral Account of such U.S.
Government Book-Entry Securities pursuant to the instructions of the Company,
(D) the maintenance of the Restricted Collateral Account at a location of
Custodian in California or New York, and (E) the identification (and subsequent
maintenance of such identification) by book entry by the Custodian of such U.S.
Government Book-Entry Securities as belonging to the Company and subject to the
security interest in favor of the Agent and to no other security interest. We
have assumed that the Custodian has not and will not itself grant an interest in
the U.S. Government Book-Entry Securities held in the Restricted Collateral
Account and that the Custodian will at all times maintain a sufficient fungible
bulk of U.S. Government Book-Entry Securities of the type deposited in the
Restricted Collateral Account to cover the Custodian's obligations to its
customers.

                                     D-3-3
<PAGE>
 
          This opinion is rendered only to Agent, Co-Agent, Canadian
Administrative Agent and Banks and is solely for their benefit in connection
with the above transactions.  This opinion may not be relied upon by Agent, Co-
Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent or Banks for any other purpose, or quoted
to or relied upon by any other person, firm or corporation for any purpose
without our prior written consent.  Any Bank listed on Schedule A hereto may,
                                                       ----------            
however, deliver a copy of this opinion to any Eligible Assignee that becomes a
party to the Credit Agreement and any such Eligible Assignee may rely on this
opinion as if it were addressed and has been delivered to it on the date hereof.

                                                Very truly yours,

                                     D-3-4
<PAGE>
 
                                   EXHIBIT E

                 [FORM OF] ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE AGREEMENT
                 ---------------------------------------------



          This ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE AGREEMENT (this "Assignment and
                                                          --------------
Acceptance") dated as of __________, ____ is made between
- ----------                                               
______________________________ (the "Assignor") and __________________________
                                     --------                                 
(the "Assignee").
      --------   


                                   RECITALS
                                   --------

          WHEREAS, the Assignor is party to that certain Credit Agreement dated
as of March 31, 1995 (as amended, amended and restated, modified, supplemented
or renewed, the "Credit Agreement") among McKesson Corporation, a Delaware
                 ----------------                                         
corporation (the "Company"), Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc., an
                  -------                                                     
Ontario corporation ("Medis"), the several financial institutions from time to
time party thereto (including the Assignor, the "Banks"), Chemical Bank, as Co-
                                                 -----                        
Agent, Bank of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative Agent, and Bank of
America National Trust and Savings Association, as agent for the Banks (the
"Agent").  Any terms defined in the Credit Agreement and not defined in this
 -----                                                                      
Assignment and Acceptance are used herein as defined in the Credit Agreement;

          WHEREAS, as provided under the Credit Agreement, the Assignor is a
[Tranche A Bank] [Tranche B Domestic Bank] [Tranche B Canadian Bank] and has
committed to making [Tranche A Loans] [Tranche B Domestic Loans] [Tranche B
Canadian Loans and extensions of credit under the Bankers' Acceptance Facility]
to [the Company] [Medis] in an aggregate amount not to exceed $__________ (the
"Commitment");
 ----------   

          WHEREAS, Assignor has extended credit in respect of the Commitment as
of the date hereof in the principal amount of $__________ which consists of
[Tranche A Loans] [Tranche B Domestic Loans] [Tranche B Canadian Loans and
extensions of credit under the Bankers Acceptance Facility] (together with any
other extensions of credit on or prior to the Effective Date (as defined in
Section 5 hereof), the "Committed Credit Extensions");
                        ---------------------------   

          WHEREAS, the Assignor wishes to assign to the Assignee [part of the]
[all] rights and obligations of the Assignor under the Credit Agreement in
respect of its Commitment, [together with a corresponding portion of each of its
outstanding Committed Credit Extensions,] in an amount equal to $__________ (the
"Assigned Amount") on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein
 ---------------                                                              
and the 

                                      E-1
<PAGE>
 
Assignee wishes to accept assignment of such rights and to assume such
obligations from the Assignor on such terms and subject to such conditions and,
after giving effect to such assignment, the Assignee will have all of the rights
and obligations of a [Tranche A Bank] [Tranche B Domestic Bank] [Tranche B
Canadian Bank];

          [WHEREAS, the Assignor's Affiliate Bank, [Name of Affiliate Bank]
("Assignor's Affiliate"), is concurrently herewith entering into an Assignment
Agreement dated as of the date hereof (the "Affiliated Assignment") with [name
of Assignee's Affiliate Bank] ("Assignee's Affiliate") pursuant to which
Assignor's Affiliate will assign [a portion of] its rights and obligations as a
[Tranche B Domestic Bank] [Tranche B Canadian Bank] under the Credit Agreement
to Assignee's Affiliate, which portion shall correspond to and equal the
assignment of the Commitments hereunder (together with a corresponding portion
of such Assignor's Affiliate's outstanding Committed Credit Extensions);] [ADD
IF NECESSARY TO MAKE THE REPRESENTATION IN SECTION 8(d) TRUE]

          [WHEREAS, after giving effect to the assignment to be effected
pursuant to this Assignment and Acceptance and the Affiliated Assignment (i)
Assignor and Assignor's Affiliate will have the same Tranche B Pro Rata Share,
(ii) Assignee and Assignee's Affiliate will have the same Tranche B Pro Rata
Share and (iii) Assignee's Affiliate will be Assignee's Affiliate Bank for all
purposes under the Credit Agreement.] [ADD IF PREVIOUS BRACKETED WHEREAS CLAUSE
IS INCLUDED]

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual
agreements contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:

     1.  Assignment and Acceptance.
         ------------------------- 

          (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Assignment and
Acceptance, (i) the Assignor hereby sells, transfers and assigns to the
Assignee, and (ii) the Assignee hereby purchases, assumes and undertakes from
the Assignor, without recourse and without representation or warranty (except as
provided in this Assignment and Acceptance) __% (the "Assignee's Percentage
                                                      ---------------------
Share") of (A) the Commitment [and the Committed Credit Extensions] of the
- -----                                                                     
Assignor and (B) all related rights, benefits, obligations, liabilities and
indemnities of the Assignor under and in connection with the Credit Agreement
and the Loan Documents.

          [If appropriate, add paragraph specifying payment to Assignor by
Assignee of outstanding principal of, accrued interest on, and fees with respect
to, Committed Credit Extensions assigned.]

                                      E-2
<PAGE>
 
          (b) With effect on and after the Effective Date, the Assignee shall
be a party to the Credit Agreement and succeed to all of the rights and be
obligated to perform all of the obligations of a [Tranche A] [Tranche B
Domestic] [Tranche B Canadian] Bank under the Credit Agreement, including the
requirements concerning confidentiality and the payment of indemnification, with
a Commitment in an amount equal to the Assigned Amount. The Assignee agrees
that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which
by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a
[Tranche A] [Tranche B Domestic] [Tranche B Canadian] Bank.  It is the intent of
the parties hereto that the Commitment of the Assignor shall, as of the
Effective Date, be reduced by an amount equal to the Assigned Amount and the
Assignor shall relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under
the Credit Agreement to the extent such obligations have been assumed by the
Assignee; provided, however, the Assignor shall not relinquish its rights under
          --------  -------                                                    
Sections 10.04 and 10.05 of the Credit Agreement to the extent such rights
relate to the time prior to the Effective Date.

          (c) After giving effect to the assignment and assumption set forth
herein, on the Effective Date the Assignee's Commitment will be $__________.

          (d) After giving effect to the assignment and assumption set forth
herein, on the Effective Date the Assignor's Commitment will be $__________.

     2.  Payments.
         -------- 

          (a) As consideration for the sale, assignment and transfer
contemplated in Section 1 hereof, the Assignee shall pay to the Assignor on the
Effective Date in immediately available funds an amount equal to $__________.

          (b) The [Assignor] [Assignee] further agrees to pay to the Agent a
processing fee in the amount specified in Section 10.08(a) of the Credit
Agreement.

     3.  Reallocation of Payments.
         ------------------------ 

     Any interest, fees and other payments accrued to the Effective Date with
respect to the Commitment and Assigned Amount shall be for the account of the
Assignor.  Any interest, fees and other payments accrued on and after the
Effective Date with respect to the Commitment and Assigned Amount shall be for
the account of the Assignee.  Each of the Assignor and the Assignee agrees that
it will hold in trust for the other party any interest, fees and other amounts
which it may receive to which the other party is entitled pursuant to the
preceding sentence and pay to the 

                                      E-3
<PAGE>
 
other party any such amounts which it may receive promptly upon receipt.

     4.  Independent Credit Decision.
         --------------------------- 

     The Assignee (a) acknowledges that it has received a copy of the Credit
Agreement and the Schedules and Exhibits thereto, together with copies of the
most recent financial statements referred to in Section 6.01(a) of the Credit
Agreement, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate
to make its own credit and legal analysis and decision to enter into this
Assignment and Acceptance; and (b) agrees that it will, independently and
without reliance upon the Assignor, any Agent or any other Bank and based on
such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time,
continue to make its own credit and legal decisions in taking or not taking
action under the Credit Agreement.

     5.  Effective Date; Notices.
         ----------------------- 

          (a) The effective date for this Assignment and Acceptance shall be the
date on which the Agent notifies Assignor that the Agent has received an
executed copy of this Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to Section 10.08(b) of
the Credit Agreement (the "Effective Date"); provided that the following
                           --------------                               
conditions precedent have been satisfied on or before the Effective Date:

               (i) this Assignment and Acceptance shall be executed and
delivered by the Assignor and the Assignee;

              (ii) the consent of the Company and the Agent required for an
effective assignment of the Assigned Amount by the Assignor to the Assignee
under Section 10.08(a) of the Credit Agreement shall have been duly obtained and
shall be in full force and effect as of the Effective Date;

             (iii) the Assignee shall pay to the Assignor all amounts due
to the Assignor under this Assignment and Acceptance;

              (iv) if Tranche B Commitments are being assigned pursuant hereto,
and an Affiliated Assignment shall be required to make the representation set
forth in Section 8(d) true, such Affiliated Assignment shall have been executed
and delivered and shall be in full force and effect;

               (v) the processing fee referred to in Section 2(b) hereof and in
Section 10.08(a) of the Credit Agreement shall have been paid to the Agent.

                                      E-4
<PAGE>
 
          (b) Promptly following the execution of this Assignment and
Acceptance, the Assignor shall deliver to the Company and the Agent for
acknowledgement by the Agent, a Notice of Assignment substantially in the form
attached hereto as Schedule 1.
                   ---------- 

     [6.  Agent.  [INCLUDE ONLY IF ASSIGNOR IS AN AGENT]
          -----                                         

          (a) The Assignee hereby appoints and authorizes the Assignor to take
such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under the Credit
Agreement as are delegated to Assignor in its capacity as an Agent by the Banks
pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement.

          (b) The Assignee shall assume no duties or obligations held by the
Assignor in its capacity as an Agent under the Credit Agreement.]

     7.  Withholding Tax.
         --------------- 

     The Assignee (a) represents and warrants to the Bank, the Agent the Company
and, if the Assigned Amount relates to Tranche B Canadian Loans or the Bankers'
Acceptance Facility, Medis that as of the date hereof under applicable law and
treaties no tax will be required to be withheld by the Bank or the Company or,
if the Assigned Amount relates to Tranche B Canadian Loans or the Bankers'
Acceptance Facility, Medis with respect to any payments to be made to the
Assignee under the Credit Agreement or hereunder, (b) agrees to furnish (i) if
Assignee is a Tranche A Bank or a Tranche B Domestic Bank and is organized under
the laws of any jurisdiction other than the United States or any State thereof,
to the Agent and the Company prior to the time that the Agent or Company is
required to make any payment of principal, interest or fees hereunder, duplicate
executed originals of either U.S. Internal Revenue Service Form 4224 or U.S.
Internal Revenue Service Form 1001 (wherein the Assignee claims entitlement to
the benefits of a tax treaty that provides for a complete exemption from U.S.
federal income withholding tax on all payments hereunder) and agrees to provide
new Forms 4224 or 1001 upon the expiration of any previously delivered form or
comparable statements in accordance with applicable U.S. law and regulations and
amendments thereto, duly executed and completed by the Assignee and (ii) if
Assignee is a Tranche B Canadian Bank and is organized under the laws of or a
resident of any jurisdiction other than Canada or any province thereof, to Agent
and the Company prior to the time that the Canadian Administrative Agent or
Medis is required to make any payment of principal, interest or fees hereunder,
duplicate originals of any forms as may be required under the Income Tax Act
(Canada) or other laws of Canada with respect to Assignee's exemption from
Canadian withholding tax, and 

                                      E-5
<PAGE>
 
(c) agrees to comply with all applicable laws and regulations with regard to
such withholding tax exemption.

     8.  Representations and Warranties.
         ------------------------------ 

          (a) The Assignor represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and
beneficial owner of the interest being assigned by it hereunder and that such
interest is free and clear of any Lien or other adverse claim; (ii) it is duly
organized and existing and it has the full power and authority to take, and has
taken, all action necessary to execute and deliver this Assignment and
Acceptance and any other documents required or permitted to be executed or
delivered by it in connection with this Assignment and Acceptance and to fulfill
its obligations hereunder; (iii) no notices to, or consents, authorizations or
approvals of, any Person are required (other than any already given or obtained)
for its due execution, delivery and performance of this Assignment and
Acceptance, and apart from any agreements or undertakings or filings required by
the Credit Agreement, no further action by, or notice to, or filing with, any
Person is required of it for such execution, delivery or performance; and (iv)
this Assignment and Acceptance has been duly executed and delivered by it and
constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Assignor, enforceable
against the Assignor in accordance with the terms hereof, subject, as to
enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, reorganization and other
laws of general application relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to
general equitable principles.

          (b) The Assignor makes no representation or warranty and assumes no
responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations
made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or the execution, legality,
validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit
Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto.  The
Assignor makes no representation or warranty in connection with, and assumes no
responsibility with respect to, the solvency, financial condition or statements
of any Borrower, or the performance or observance by any Borrower, of any of its
respective obligations under the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or
document furnished in connection therewith.

          (c) The Assignee represents and warrants that (i) it is duly
organized and existing and it has full power and authority to take, and has
taken, all action necessary to execute and deliver this Assignment and
Acceptance and any other documents required or permitted to be executed or
delivered by it in connection with this Assignment and Acceptance, and to
fulfill its obligations hereunder; (ii) no notices to, or consents,
authorizations or approvals of, any Person are required (other than any already
given or 

                                      E-6
<PAGE>
 
obtained) for its due execution, delivery and performance of this Assignment and
Acceptance; and apart from any agreements or undertakings or filings required by
the Credit Agreement, no further action by, or notice to, or filing with, any
Person is required of it for such execution, delivery or performance; (iii) this
Assignment and Acceptance has been duly executed and delivered by it and
constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Assignee, enforceable
against the Assignee in accordance with the terms hereof, subject, as to
enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, reorganization and other
laws of general application relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to
general equitable principles; and (iv) it is an Eligible Assignee.

          (d) After giving effect to the assignment to be effected pursuant to
this Assignment and Acceptance, and the related Affiliated Assignment, if any,
any part of the Assigned Amount relating to Tranche B Commitments shall be an
obligation of the Assignee or an Affiliate of the Assignee.

     9.  Further Assurances.
         ------------------ 

     The Assignor and the Assignee each hereby agree to execute and deliver such
other instruments, and take such other action, as either party may reasonably
request in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Assignment and
Acceptance, including the delivery of any notices or other documents or
instruments to the Company or the Agent, which may be required in connection
with the assignment and assumption contemplated hereby.

     10.  Miscellaneous.
          ------------- 

          (a) Any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Assignment and
Acceptance shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto.  No failure or
delay by either party hereto in exercising any right, power or privilege
hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof and any waiver of any breach of the
provisions of this Assignment and Acceptance shall be without prejudice to any
rights with respect to any other or further breach thereof.

          (b) All payments made hereunder shall be made without any set-off or
counterclaim.

          (c) The Assignor and the Assignee shall each pay its own costs and
expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation, preparation, execution and
performance of this Assignment and Acceptance.

          (d) This Assignment and Acceptance may be executed in any number of
counterparts and all of such 

                                      E-7
<PAGE>
 
counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same
instrument.

          (e) THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.  The Assignor and the
Assignee each irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any State
or Federal court sitting in California over any suit, action or proceeding
arising out of or relating to this Assignment and Acceptance and irrevocably
agrees that all claims in respect of such action or proceeding may be heard and
determined in such California State or Federal court.  Each party to this
Assignment and Acceptance hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent it
may effectively do so, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance
of such action or proceeding.

          (f) THE ASSIGNOR AND THE ASSIGNEE EACH HEREBY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY
AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVE ANY RIGHTS THEY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT
OF ANY LITIGATION BASED HEREON, OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER, OR IN CONNECTION WITH
THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE, THE CREDIT AGREEMENT, ANY RELATED DOCUMENTS AND
AGREEMENTS OR ANY COURSE OF CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALING, OR STATEMENTS (WHETHER
ORAL OR WRITTEN).

          [(g) The parties hereto acknowledge the provisions of 2.10(e) of the
Credit Agreement relating to disclosure under the Interest Act (Canada) and
agree that the provisions thereof shall apply to the disclosure and calculation
of nominal and effective rates of interest payable hereunder, all as if such
provisions were set forth herein.] [INSERT IF ASSIGNMENT CONSISTS OF TRANCHE B
COMMITMENT]

                                      E-8
<PAGE>
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor and the Assignee have caused this
Assignment and Acceptance to be executed and delivered by their duly authorized
officers as of the date first above written.


                                                           [ASSIGNOR]
                                          
                                          
                                           By:_________________________________
                                                                               
                                           Title:______________________________
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                           By:_________________________________
                                                                               
                                           Title:______________________________
                                                                               
                                           Address:                            
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                           [ASSIGNEE]          
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                           By:_________________________________
                                                                               
                                           Title:______________________________
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                           By:_________________________________
                                                                               
                                           Title:______________________________
                                          
                                           Address:

                                      E-9
<PAGE>
 
                                  SCHEDULE 1

                      NOTICE OF ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE
                      -----------------------------------


                                                           _______________, ____



Bank of America National Trust
  and Savings Association, as Agent
1455 Market Street, 12th Floor
San Francisco, CA  94103
Attn:  Agency Management Services #5596

[Bank of America Canada
Toronto Corporate Office No. 5651
4 Kings Street West, 18th Floor
Toronto, Canada
Attn:  Robert Kizell]

McKesson Corporation
One Post Street
San Francisco, CA  94104-5296
Attn:  Alan Pearce


Ladies and Gentlemen:

     We refer to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 31, 1995 (as amended,
amended and restated, modified, supplemented or renewed from time to time the
"Credit Agreement") among McKesson Corporation (the "Company"), Medis Health and
 ----------------                                    -------                    
Pharmaceutical Services Inc. ("Medis"), the Banks referred to therein, Chemical
Bank, as Co-Agent, Bank of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative Agent, and
Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, as agent for the Banks
(the "Agent").  Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein as therein
      -----                                                                     
defined.

     1.  We hereby give you notice of, and request the Agent's and the
Company's consent to, the assignment by __________________ (the "Assignor") to
                                                                 --------     
_______________ (the "Assignee") of the right, title and interest of the
                      --------                                          
Assignor in and to [Describe Commitment and Obligations assigned] pursuant to
the Assignment and Acceptance Agreement attached hereto (the "Assignment and
                                                              --------------
Acceptance").
- ----------   

     2.  The Assignee agrees that, upon receiving the consent of the Agent and
the Company to such assignment, the Assignee will be bound by the terms of the
Credit Agreement as fully and to the same extent as if the Assignee were the
Bank originally holding such interest in the Credit Agreement.

                                     E-10
<PAGE>
 
     3.  The following administrative details apply to the Assignee:

          (A)  Notice Address:

               Assignee name: __________________________
               Address:  _______________________________
                         _______________________________
                         _______________________________
               Attention:  _____________________________
               Telephone:  (___) _______________________
               Telecopier:  (___) ______________________
               Telex (Answerback):  ____________________

          (B)  Payment Instructions:

               Account No.:  ___________________________
                    At:      ___________________________
                             ___________________________
                             ___________________________
               Reference:    ___________________________
               Attention:    ___________________________

     4.  You are entitled to rely upon the representations, warranties and
covenants of each of the Assignor and Assignee contained in the Assignment and
Acceptance.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor and the Assignee have caused this Notice
of Assignment and Acceptance to be executed by their respective duly authorized
officials, officers or agents as of the date first above mentioned.


                                           Very truly yours,
                                           
                                           [NAME OF ASSIGNOR]
                                           
                                           
                                           By:___________________________
                                           
                                           Title:________________________
                                           
                                           
                                           By:___________________________
                                           
                                           Title:________________________
                                           
                                           [NAME OF ASSIGNEE]
                                           
                                           
                                           By:___________________________
                                           
                                           Title:________________________

                                     E-11
<PAGE>
 
                                           By:___________________________
                                        
                                           Title:________________________


ACKNOWLEDGED AND ASSIGNMENT
CONSENTED TO:


MCKESSON CORPORATION


By:  _____________________________

Title:  __________________________


BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST AND
  SAVINGS ASSOCIATION, as Agent


By: ______________________________

Its: _____________________________

                                     E-12
<PAGE>
 
                                  EXHIBIT F-1
                                  -----------


                 [FORM OF] COMPANY PROMISSORY NOTE (Tranche A)
                 --------------------------------------------



$____________                                                _____________, ____



          FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, McKesson Corporation, a Delaware
corporation (the "Company"), hereby promises to pay to the order of
                  -------                                          
___________________ (the "Bank") the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all
                          ----                                               
Tranche A Loans made by the Bank to the Company pursuant to the Credit
Agreement, dated as of March 31, 1995 (such Credit Agreement, as it may be
amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, being
hereinafter called the "Credit Agreement"), among the Company, Medis Health and
                        ----------------                                       
Pharmaceutical Services Inc., an Ontario corporation ("Medis"), the Bank, the
other banks parties thereto, Chemical Bank, as Co-Agent, Bank of America Canada,
as Canadian Administrative Agent, and Bank of America National Trust and Savings
Association, as Agent for the Banks, on the dates and in the amounts provided in
the Credit Agreement.  The Company further promises to pay interest on the
unpaid principal amount of the Tranche A Loans evidenced hereby from time to
time at the rates, on the dates, and otherwise as provided in the Credit
Agreement.

          The Bank is authorized to endorse the amount and the date on which
each Tranche A Loan is made, the maturity date therefor and each payment of
principal with respect thereto on the schedules annexed hereto and made a part
hereof, or on continuations thereof which shall be attached hereto and made a
part hereof; provided that any failure to endorse such information on such
schedule or continuation thereof shall not in any manner affect any obligation
of the Company under the Credit Agreement and this Promissory Note (the "Note").
                                                                         ----   

          This Note is one of the Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the
benefits of, the Credit Agreement, which Credit Agreement, among other things,
contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening
of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof
prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.

          Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with their
defined meanings therein unless otherwise 

                                     F-1-1
<PAGE>
 
defined herein. This Note shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in
accordance with, the laws of the State of California applicable to contracts
made and to be performed entirely within such State.

          The Company promises to pay all reasonable costs and expenses,
including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel, as provided in Section 10.04
of the Credit Agreement.  The Company and endorsers of this Note hereby consent
to renewals and extensions of time at or after the maturity hereof, without
notice, and hereby waive diligence, presentment, protest, demand and notice of
every kind and, to the full extent permitted by law, the right to plead any
statute of limitations as a defense to any demand hereunder.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Note to be executed
and delivered by its duly authorized officer, as of the day and year and the
place first above written.

                                                  MCKESSON CORPORATION
                          
                          
                                                  By:  _________________________
                          
                                                  Title:________________________

                                     F-1-2
<PAGE>
 
                               Schedule A to Company Promissory Note (Tranche A)



               BASE RATE LOANS AND REPAYMENT OF BASE RATE LOANS
               ------------------------------------------------

 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
              (2)         (3)         (4)
            Amount      Maturity   Amount of
              of        Date of      Base        (5)
    (1)      Base        Base      Rate Loan   Notation
   Date    Rate Loan   Rate Loan    Repaid     Made By
- ---------  ---------   ---------   ---------   --------
                                                     
<S>        <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>   
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
</TABLE> 

                                     F-1-3
<PAGE>
 
                               Schedule B to Company Promissory Note (Tranche A)



            OFFSHORE RATE LOANS AND REPAYMENT OF OFFSHORE RATE LOANS
            --------------------------------------------------------



<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
              (2)         (3)         (4)
            Amount      Maturity   Amount of
              of        Date of     Offshore      (5)
    (1)     Offshore    Offshore   Rate Loan   Notation
   Date    Rate Loan   Rate Loan    Repaid     Made By
- ---------  ---------   ---------   ---------   -------
                                                     
<S>        <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>   
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                     
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
</TABLE> 

                                     F-1-4
<PAGE>
 
                               Schedule C to Company Promissory Note (Tranche A)



                  CD RATE LOANS AND REPAYMENT OF CD RATE LOANS
                  --------------------------------------------



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
              (2)          (3)          (4)
            Amount      Maturity     Amount of     (5)
   (1)       of CD     Date of CD     CD Rate    Notation
   Date    Rate Loan    Rate Loan   Loan Repaid   Made By
- ---------  ---------   ----------   -----------  --------

<S>        <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                                         
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
</TABLE> 

                                     F-1-5
<PAGE>
 
                                  EXHIBIT F-2
                                  -----------


                 [FORM OF] COMPANY PROMISSORY NOTE (Tranche B)
                 --------------------------------------------



$____________                                                _____________, ____



         FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, McKesson Corporation, a Delaware
corporation (the "Company"), hereby promises to pay to the order of
                  -------                                          
___________________ (the "Bank") the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all
                          ----                                               
Tranche B Loans made by the Bank to the Company pursuant to the Credit
Agreement, dated as of March 31, 1995 (such Credit Agreement, as it may be
amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, being
hereinafter called the "Credit Agreement"), among the Company, Medis Health and
                        ----------------                                       
Pharmaceutical Services Inc., the Bank, the other banks parties thereto,
Chemical Bank, as Co-Agent, Bank of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative
Agent, and Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, as Agent for
the Banks, on the dates and in the amounts provided in the Credit Agreement.
The Company further promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of
the Tranche B Loans evidenced hereby from time to time at the rates, on the
dates, and otherwise as provided in the Credit Agreement.

         The Bank is authorized to endorse the amount and the date on which each
Tranche B Loan is made, the maturity date therefor and each payment of principal
with respect thereto on the schedules annexed hereto and made a part hereof, or
on continuations thereof which shall be attached hereto and made a part hereof;
provided that any failure to endorse such information on such schedule or
continuation thereof shall not in any manner affect any obligation of the
Company under the Credit Agreement and this Promissory Note (the "Note").
                                                                  ----   

         This Note is one of the Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the
benefits of, the Credit Agreement, which Credit Agreement, among other things,
contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening
of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof
prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.

         Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with their
defined meanings therein unless otherwise defined herein.  This Note shall be
governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the
State of 

                                     F-2-1
<PAGE>
 
California applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such
State.

         The Company promises to pay all reasonable costs and expenses,
including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel, as provided in Section 10.04
of the Credit Agreement.  The Company and endorsers of this Note hereby consent
to renewals and extensions of time at or after the maturity hereof, without
notice, and hereby waive diligence, presentment, protest, demand and notice of
every kind and, to the full extent permitted by law, the right to plead any
statute of limitations as a defense to any demand hereunder.

                                              MCKESSON CORPORATION
                           
                           
                           
                                              By:___________________________
                           
                                              Title: _______________________

                                     F-2-2
<PAGE>
 
                               Schedule A to Company Promissory Note (Tranche B)



               BASE RATE LOANS AND REPAYMENT OF BASE RATE LOANS
               ------------------------------------------------

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
             (2)          (3)        (4)
            Amount      Maturity   Amount of
              of        Date of      Base        (5)
    (1)      Base        Base      Rate Loan   Notation
   Date    Rate Loan   Rate Loan    Repaid      Made By
- ---------  ---------   ---------   ---------   --------

<S>        <C>         <C>         <C>         <C> 
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
                                                       
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
</TABLE> 

                                     F-2-3
<PAGE>
 
                               Schedule B to Company Promissory Note (Tranche B)



           OFFSHORE RATE LOANS AND REPAYMENT OF OFFSHORE RATE LOANS
           --------------------------------------------------------


<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
              (2)         (3)         (4)
            Amount      Maturity   Amount of
              of        Date of     Offshore      (5)
    (1)     Offshore    Offshore   Rate Loan   Notation
   Date    Rate Loan   Rate Loan    Repaid     Made By
- ---------  ---------   ---------   ---------   --------

<S>        <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________

_________  _________   _________   _________   ________
</TABLE> 

                                     F-2-4
<PAGE>
 
                               Schedule C to Company Promissory Note (Tranche B)



                  CD RATE LOANS AND REPAYMENT OF CD RATE LOANS
                  --------------------------------------------



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
              (2)         (3)           (4)
             Amount     Maturity     Amount of     (5)
   (1)       of CD     Date of CD     CD Rate    Notation
   Date    Rate Loan    Rate Loan   Loan Repaid   Made By
- ---------  ---------   ----------   -----------  --------

<S>        <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
                                              
_________  _________   __________   ___________  ________
</TABLE> 

                                     F-2-5
<PAGE>
 
                                  EXHIBIT F-3
                                  -----------


                  [FORM OF] MEDIS PROMISSORY NOTE (TRANCHE B)
                   ------------------------------------------



U.S. $____________                                           _____________, ____



         FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, Medis Health and Pharmaceutical
Services Inc. ("Medis"), hereby promises to pay to the order of
___________________ (the "Bank") the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all
                          ----                                               
Tranche B Loans made by the Bank to Medis pursuant to the Credit Agreement,
dated as of March 31, 1995 (such Credit Agreement, as it may be amended,
restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, being
hereinafter called the "Credit Agreement"), among the McKesson Corporation (the
                        ----------------                                       
"Company"), Medis, the Bank, the other banks parties thereto, Chemical Bank, as
Co-Agent, Bank of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative Agent, and Bank of
America National Trust and Savings Association, as Agent for the Banks, on the
dates, in the amounts and in the currency provided in the Credit Agreement and
whether or not any such amount is greater or less than or equal to the amount
stated above.  Medis further promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal
amount of the Tranche B Loans evidenced hereby from time to time at the rates,
on the dates, in the currency and otherwise as provided in the Credit Agreement.

         The Bank is authorized to endorse the amount and the date on which each
Tranche B Loan is made, the maturity date therefor and each payment of principal
with respect thereto on the schedules annexed hereto and made a part hereof, or
on continuations thereof which shall be attached hereto and made a part hereof;
provided that any failure to endorse such information on such schedule or
continuation thereof shall not in any manner affect any obligation of Medis
under the Credit Agreement and this Promissory Note (the "Note").
                                                          ----   
         This Note is one of the Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the
benefits of, the Credit Agreement, which Credit Agreement, among other things,
contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening
of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof
prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.

         Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with their
defined meanings therein unless otherwise defined herein.  This Note shall be
governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the
State of

                                     F-3-1
<PAGE>
 
California applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such
State.
         Medis waives presentment, notice of dishonor, protest and notice of
protest.


                                           MEDIS HEALTH AND PHARMACEUTICAL
                                           SERVICES INC.

 

                                           By:___________________________
    
                                           Title: _______________________


                                     F-3-2
<PAGE>
 
                         Schedule A to Medis Promissory Note (Tranche B)



                         CANADIAN PRIME RATE LOANS AND
                         -----------------------------
                    REPAYMENT OF CANADIAN PRIME RATE LOANS
                    --------------------------------------

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                  (2)             (3)                (4)
                 Amount         Maturity          Amount of
                   of            Date of           Canadian
                Canadian        Canadian            Prime            (5)
    (1)          Prime            Prime           Rate Loan       Notation
   Date        Rate Loan        Rate Loan          Repaid         Made By
- ---------      ---------        ---------         ---------       --------
<S>           <C>             <C>               <C>              <C>  
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________
                      
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  

_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________
                      
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________

_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________
                      
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  

_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________
                      
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
</TABLE> 
                                     F-3-3
<PAGE>
 
                           Schedule B to Medis Promissory Note (Tranche B)



           OFFSHORE RATE LOANS AND REPAYMENT OF OFFSHORE RATE LOANS
           --------------------------------------------------------



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                  (2)             (3)                  (4)
                Amount          Maturity            Amount of
                  of            Date of             Offshore       (5)
   (1)          Offshore        Offshore              Rate       Notation
  Date         Rate Loan        Rate Loan         Loan Repaid     Made By
- ---------     -----------     ------------       ------------    ---------
<S>           <C>              <C>               <C>              <C>  

_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________
                      
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  

_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________
                      
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  

_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________
                      
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  

_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________
                      
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
                                                                             
_________     ___________     ____________      ______________   __________  
</TABLE> 
 
                                     F-3-4
<PAGE>
 
                                   EXHIBIT G

                           [FORM OF] DRAWING NOTICE



          Pursuant to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of March 31, 1995
among McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "COMPANY"), Medis Health
and Pharmaceutical Services Inc., an Ontario corporation ("MEDIS"), the
financial institutions listed therein as Banks ("BANKS"), Chemical Bank, as Co-
Agent, Bank of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative Agent, and Bank of
America National Trust and Savings Association, as Agent (as amended,
supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "CREDIT AGREEMENT";
capitalized terms used herein without definition which are defined in the Credit
Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement), this
represents the Company's and Medis' notice pursuant to subsection 2.17(b) of the
Credit Agreement that Medis hereby requests a Drawing under the Credit
Agreement, and, in connection therewith, sets forth below the information
relating to such Drawing as required by subsection 2.17(b) of the Credit
Agreement:

          1.    The date of the Drawing, which is a Business Day, is
                ______________, ____;

          2.    The aggregate Face Amount of Drafts to be accepted is Cdn.
                $____________;

          3.    The maturity date for such Drafts is _________, ____, which
                represents a term to maturity of approximately
                [30/60/90/120/180] days.

     The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on
the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the proposed Borrowing, before
and after giving effect thereto and to the application of the proceeds
therefrom:

          (a) the representations and warranties of the Borrowers contained in
      Article V of the Credit Agreement are true and correct as though made on
      and as of such date (except to the extent such representations and
      warranties relate to an earlier date, in which case they are true and
      correct as of such date);

          (b) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, or
      would result from such proposed Borrowing; [and]

          (c) The proposed Bankers' Acceptance to be made will not cause the
      Total Utilization of Tranche B Commitments to exceed the combined Tranche
      B Commitments of the Banks or the aggregate principal amount of all
      Tranche A Loans and 

                                      G-1
<PAGE>
 
      the Total Utilization of Tranche B Commitments to exceed the combined
      Commitments of the Banks; and

          (d) Medis is a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company.


Dated: ___________________    MCKESSON CORPORATION


                              By _______________________
                              Title: ___________________


                              MEDIS HEALTH AND PHARMACEUTICAL
                              SERVICES INC.


                              By _______________________
                              Title: ___________________


                                      G-2
<PAGE>
 
                                  EXHIBIT H-1

                                [FORM OF DRAFT]



BANKERS' ACCEPTANCE                    Due _________________, ____
ACCEPTATION BANCAIRE                   Echeant le                 
                                                                  
NO. B.A. IL.0000                                                  
                                                                  
                                       _____________________, Canada
                                                                  
                                       _____________________, ____ 


On/Le ___________________, ____ without grace, for value received, pay to the
order of the undersigned drawer the sum of/sans jours de grace et contra valeur,
payez a l'ordre du tireur soussigne la somme de/________________ dollars
($__________)

To/A - [Name of Tranche B Canadian Bank]
       _______________, Canada


                                       MEDIS HEALTH AND PHARMACEUTICAL  
                                       SERVICES INC.                    
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                       Per:                             
                                       par: ______________________      
                                            Authorized Signature       
                                            Signature Autorisee         


                                     H-1-1
<PAGE>
 
                                  EXHIBIT H-2

                             [FORM OF ACCEPTANCE]

                               ACCEPTED/ACCEPTE


date/le ________________________________________________19__
      Payable at [INSERT LOCATION]/payable a _____________
                 -----------------                        


[Name of Tranche B Canadian Bank]


Per:
par: _________________________
     Authorized Signature
     Signature Autorisee


Per:
par: _________________________
     Authorized Signature
     Signature Autorisee


                                     H-2-1
<PAGE>
 
                                   EXHIBIT I

                          [FORM OF] PLEDGE AGREEMENT
                          --------------------------

          This PLEDGE AND SECURITY AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is entered into
                                                    ---------                  
as of March 31, 1995 among McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the
                                                                            
"Pledgor"), and Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, as agent
- --------                                                                        
(in such capacity, the "Agent") for the several financial institutions (the
                        -----                                              
"Banks") from time to time party to the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter
- ------                                                                  
defined).

                                   RECITALS
                                   --------

          A.   The Agent, Chemical Bank, as Co-Agent, Bank of America Canada, as
Canadian Administrative Agent,  and the Banks have entered into a Credit
Agreement dated as of March 31, 1995 (the "Credit Agreement") with the Pledgor
                                           ----------------                   
and Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc. ("Medis") pursuant to which
the Banks have made certain commitments, subject to the terms and conditions set
forth in the Credit Agreement, to extend certain credit facilities to the
Pledgor and to Medis.

          B.   Pledgor may, from time to time, but is not required to, pledge
Collateral (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.

          C.   It is a condition precedent to the initial extensions of credit
by the Banks under the Credit Agreement that the Pledgor shall have executed and
delivered to the Agent and the Banks this Agreement.

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements, provisions
and covenants contained herein, the parties agree as follows:


                                   ARTICLE I

                          DEFINITIONS AND REFERENCES
                          --------------------------

     1.01  General Definitions.  All capitalized terms used in this Agreement
           -------------------                                               
(including in the recitals hereof) and not otherwise defined herein shall have
the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement.  As used in this
Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

     "Applicable CFR Sections" has the meaning specified in Section 6.04(b).
      -----------------------                                               

     "Approved Custodian" has the meaning specified in the Credit Agreement.
      ------------------                                                    

                                      I-1
<PAGE>
 
     "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on
      ------------                                                             
which commercial banks in New York City or San Francisco are authorized or
required by law to close.

     "CFR" means the United States Code of Federal Regulations, as from time to
      ---                                                                      
time amended.

     "Collateral" means (a) the Collateral Accounts, (b) all amounts on deposit
      ----------                                                               
from time to time in the Collateral Accounts, (c) all Investments, including all
securities (whether certificated or uncertificated), instruments, accounts,
general intangibles and deposits representing or evidencing any Investments, (d)
all interest, dividends, cash, instruments, securities and other property from
time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of or in
exchange for any or all of the Collateral (other than such interest, dividends,
cash, instruments, securities and other property deposited into an account
designated by the Pledgor that is not a Collateral Account in accordance with
Section 3.03(c)), (e) all of the Pledgor's right, title and interest in, to and
under the Custodial Agreement (as, and only to the extent it refers or applies
to the Collateral Accounts), and (f) to the extent not covered by clauses (a)
through (e) above, all Proceeds of any or all of the foregoing Collateral.

     "Collateral Accounts" means the Restricted Custodial Account and any other
      -------------------                                                      
accounts in which Investments may be held or registered.

     "Collateral Period" means (a) the period from the Closing Date to June 30,
      -----------------                                                        
1995 and (b) any calendar quarter commencing thereafter.

     "Custodial Agreement" means the Custody Agreement dated November 21, 1994
      -------------------                                                     
between BofA in its capacity as Custodian and the Pledgor and any successor or
other Custodial Agreement permitted under the terms of this Agreement and the
Credit Agreement.

     "Custodial Agreement Acknowledgment" means the Custodial Agreement
      ----------------------------------                               
Acknowledgment among the Pledgor, the Custodian and Agent substantially in the
form of Exhibit J annexed to the Credit Agreement and any other Custodial
Agreement Acknowledgment approved by Majority Banks.

     "Custodian" means BofA in its capacity as custodian under the Custodial
      ---------                                                             
Agreement and any successor custodian or custodians under a Custodial Agreement
permitted under the terms of this Agreement and the Credit Agreement.

     "Designated Collateral" has the meaning specified in Section 3.05.
      ---------------------                                            

                                      I-2
<PAGE>
 
     "Eligible Collateral" means, as of any Valuation Day, cash and Eligible
      -------------------                                                   
Investments on deposit in the Restricted Custodial Account as of such day.

     "Eligible Investments" means U.S. Government Securities.
      --------------------                                   

     "Investments" means those investments, if any, made by the Custodian upon
      -----------                                                             
direction from the Pledgor or Agent, as the case may be, with amounts on deposit
in the Restricted Custodial Account pursuant to Article III of the Custodial
Agreement Acknowledgment.

     "Lowest Quarterly Market Value" has the meaning specified in Section
      -----------------------------                                      
3.04(c).

     "Market Value" means, with respect to the Eligible Collateral on any
      ------------                                                       
Valuation Day, a dollar value determined as follows:

     (a) cash shall be valued at its face amount on such Valuation Day; and

     (b) an Eligible Investment shall be valued pursuant to the Custodian's
standard and customary pricing sources for such Eligible Investment which it
believes to be reliable.

     "Proceeds" means whatever is receivable or received from or upon the sale,
      --------                                                                 
lease, license, collection, use, exchange or other disposition, whether
voluntary or involuntary, of any Collateral, including "proceeds" as defined at
UCC Section 9306, any and all proceeds of any insurance, indemnity, warranty or
guaranty payable to or for the account of the Pledgor from time to time with
respect to any of the Collateral, any and all payments (in any form whatsoever)
made or due and payable to the Pledgor from time to time in connection with any
requisition, confiscation, condemnation, seizure or forfeiture of all or any
part of the Collateral by any Governmental Authority (or any Person acting under
color of Governmental Authority), any and all other amounts from time to time
paid or payable under or in connection with any of the Collateral or for or on
account of any damage or injury to or conversion of any Collateral by any
Person, any and all other tangible or intangible property received upon the sale
or disposition of Collateral, and all proceeds of proceeds.

     "Restricted Custodial Account" means account No. 197427321 (Ref:
      ----------------------------                                   
McKesson Corporation) established and maintained with the Custodian pursuant to
the Custodial Agreement that is pledged to Agent on behalf of Banks pursuant to
the terms hereof.

     "Secured Obligations" means all obligations and liabilities of every nature
      -------------------                                                       
of the Pledgor now or hereafter existing under or arising out of or in
connection with the Credit Agreement, the Guaranty and the other Loan Documents
and all extensions or renewals thereof, whether for principal, interest
(including

                                      I-3
<PAGE>
 
interest that, but for the filing of a petition in bankruptcy with respect to
the Pledgor, would accrue on such obligations), fees, expenses, indemnities or
otherwise, whether voluntary or involuntary, direct or indirect, absolute or
contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, whether or not jointly owed with others,
and whether or not from time to time decreased or extinguished and later
increased, created or incurred, and all or any portion of such obligations or
liabilities that are paid, to the extent all or any part of such payment is
avoided or recovered directly or indirectly from the Agent or any Bank as a
preference, fraudulent transfer or otherwise, and all obligations of every
nature of the Pledgor now or hereafter existing under this Agreement.

     "UCC" means the Uniform Commercial Code as the same may, from time to time,
      ---                                                                       
be in effect in the State of California; provided, however, in the event that,
                                         --------  -------                    
by reason of mandatory provisions of law, any or all of the attachment,
perfection or priority of the security interest in any Collateral is governed by
the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in a jurisdiction other than the State
of California, the term "UCC" shall mean the Uniform Commercial Code as in
effect in such other jurisdiction for purposes of the provisions hereof relating
to such attachment, perfection or priority and for purposes of definitions
related to such provisions.

     "U.S. Government Securities" means securities issued or directly and
      --------------------------                                         
unconditionally guaranteed as to interest and principal by the United States
Government or its agencies identified specifically by type on Schedule A to the
                                                              ----------       
Custodial Agreement Acknowledgment, as supplemented from time to time in
accordance with the Custodial Agreement Acknowledgment.

     "Valuation Day" has the meaning specified in subsection 3.04(a) .
      -------------                                                   

     "Valuation Report" has the meaning specified in subsection 3.04(b).
      ----------------                                                  

     "Valuation Summary" has the meaning specified in subsection 3.04(c).
      -----------------                                                  

     1.02  Other Interpretive Provisions.  (a) The meanings of defined terms are
           -----------------------------                                        
equally applicable to the singular and plural forms of the defined terms.

          (b) The words "hereof", "herein", "hereunder" and similar words refer
to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this
Agreement; and subsection, Section, Schedule and Exhibit references are to this
Agreement unless otherwise specified.

          (c) (i)  The term "documents" includes any and all instruments,
documents, agreements, certificates, indentures, notices and other writings,
however evidenced.

                                      I-4
<PAGE>
 
               (ii) The term "including" is not limiting and means "including
without limitation."

              (iii) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date
 to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including"; the
 words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding", and the word "through"
 means "to and including. "

          (d) Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, (i) references to
agreements (including this Agreement) and other contractual instruments shall be
deemed to include all subsequent amendments and other modifications thereto, but
only to the extent such amendments and other modifications are not prohibited by
the terms of this Agreement, and (ii) references to any statute or regulation
are to be construed as including all statutory and regulatory provisions
consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing or interpreting the statute or
regulation.

          (e) The captions and headings of this Agreement are for convenience of
reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.

          (f) This Agreement is the result of negotiations among and have been
reviewed by counsel to the Agent, the Customer and the Custodian and is the
product of all parties.  Accordingly, it shall not be construed against the
Banks or the Agent merely because of the Agent's or Banks' involvement in its
preparation.


                                   ARTICLE II

                   PLEDGE OF SECURITY FOR SECURED OBLIGATIONS
                   ------------------------------------------

          2.01  Grant of Security Interest.  The Pledgor hereby pledges and
                --------------------------                                 
assigns to the Agent, and hereby grants to the Agent (for itself and on behalf
of and for the Canadian Administrative Agent and the ratable benefit of the
Banks) a security interest in, all of the Pledgor's right, title and interest in
and to the Collateral as collateral security for the prompt payment or
performance in full when due, whether at stated maturity, by required
prepayment, declaration, acceleration, demand or otherwise (including the
payment of amounts that would become due but for the operation of the automatic
stay under Section 362(a) of the United States Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C.
362(a)), of all Secured Obligations.

          2.02  Financing Statements, Etc.  The Pledgor shall execute and
                -------------------------                               
deliver to the Agent, at any time and from time to time, all financing
statements for filing in California and such other jurisdictions as may be
designated by the Agent, continuation statements, termination statements,
notices, and all other documents and instruments (the "Financing Statements")
                                                       --------------------  
which the Agent may reasonably request, in form satisfactory to

                                      I-5
<PAGE>
 
the Agent, and the Pledgor hereby agrees to, and authorizes the Agent to, take
such other steps as shall be requested by the Agent to perfect and continue
perfected, maintain the priority of or provide notice of the pledge of and
security interest in the Collateral and to accomplish the purposes of this
Agreement.

          2.03  Delivery of Payments and Other Distributions.  Upon the
                --------------------------------------------           
occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default, if the Pledgor
shall become entitled to receive or shall receive in connection with the
Collateral any payment or other distribution, the Pledgor shall accept such
payment or distribution as the agent for the Agent, shall hold it in trust for
the benefit of the Agent, shall segregate it from other property or funds of the
Pledgor, and shall deliver all such payments and distributions, in the exact
form received, forthwith to or for the account of the Agent, at the address and
to the Person or Persons to be designated by the Agent, with any necessary
endorsements and other instruments of transfer or assignment, all in form and
substance satisfactory to the Agent, as the Agent shall request, to be held by
the Agent subject to the terms hereof, as part of the Collateral.

          2.04  Continuing Security Interest.  The Pledgor agrees that this
                ----------------------------                               
Agreement shall create a continuing security interest in and pledge of the
Collateral which shall remain in effect until terminated in accordance with
Article VIII.


                                  ARTICLE III

              ESTABLISHMENT AND OPERATION OF COLLATERAL ACCOUNTS;
              ---------------------------------------------------
                      VALUATION AND RELEASE OF COLLATERAL
                      -----------------------------------

          3.01 Restricted Custodial Account.  The Pledgor has established with
               ----------------------------                                   
the Custodian the Restricted Custodial Account and from time to time may deposit
Collateral therein all of which is and will be held and applied in accordance
with this Agreement, the Custodial Agreement and the Custodial Agreement
Acknowledgment.

          3.02  Operation of Collateral Accounts.
                -------------------------------- 

          (a) The Restricted Custodial Account shall be operated, and all
Investments shall be purchased and registered or held (as applicable), in
accordance with the terms of the Custodial Agreement and the Custodial Agreement
Acknowledgment.

          (b) The Agent shall be fully protected and shall suffer no liability
in acting in accordance with any instructions reasonably believed by it to have
been given by the Pledgor with respect to any aspect of the operation of the
Collateral Accounts (including any such instructions relating to any Investments
of any amounts on deposit therein).

                                      I-6
<PAGE>
 
          (c) Anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the
Collateral Accounts shall be subject to such applicable laws, and such
applicable regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
and of any other appropriate banking or governmental authority, as may now or
hereafter be in effect.

     3.03  Investment of Amounts In the Collateral Accounts.
           ------------------------------------------------ 

          (a) Cash held by the Custodian in the Restricted Custodial Account
shall not be invested or reinvested except as provided in this Article III and
in the Custodial Agreement Acknowledgement.

          (b) So long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be
continuing, Pledgor may direct the purchase and sale of Investments on deposit
in the Restricted Custodial Account in accordance with Article III of the
Custodial Agreement Acknowledgement.  At any time after the occurrence and
during the continuance of an Event of Default, Agent may provide written notice
to the Custodian suspending the Pledgor's right to direct the investment of
funds on deposit in the Restricted Custodial Account; provided that, if the
Agent has so notified the Custodian and such Event of Default shall no longer be
continuing, then, upon request of the Pledgor, the Agent shall provide written
notice to the Custodian revoking such suspension.

          (c) Subject to the Agent's rights under clause (d), any interest,
cash dividends or other cash distributions received by the Custodian in respect
of any Investments (other than proceeds from the sale of Investments) shall be
transferred in accordance with Section 4 of the Custodial Agreement or to any
other account designated by the Pledgor.  Any distribution of property other
than cash in respect of any Investment shall be held in the Restricted Custodial
Account and the net proceeds of any sale or payment of any Investments shall be
held in a Collateral Account pending investment.

          (d) The Pledgor agrees that the Agent may sell or cause the sale of
any Investment and, if appropriate, instruct the Custodian to transfer the
proceeds of such sale or any other cash on deposit in the Restricted Custodial
Account to an account designated by the Agent, in either case (i) if such sale
or transfer is necessary to permit the Agent to perform its duties under this
Agreement or the Credit Agreement and (ii) as otherwise provided in Section
6.04.

     3.04  Valuation of Collateral.
           ----------------------- 

          (a) On or prior to the fifth Business Day after (1) the last Business
Day of each calendar month, (2) the next Business Day after any day on which
Collateral is released from the Custodial Account pursuant to Section 3.05
hereof and (3) the Business Day immediately preceding any day on which

                                      I-7
<PAGE>
 
Collateral is added to the Custodial Account pursuant to Section 3.06 hereof,
the Pledgor shall cause the Custodian to, as provided in the Custodial Agreement
Acknowledgment:

               (i) determine the Market Value of all Eligible Collateral which
was held in the Restricted Custodial Account as of the close of business on such
(1) last Business Day of the calendar month, (2) next Business Day after the day
on which Collateral is released or (3) Business Day immediately preceding the
day on which Collateral is added, as the case may be, (each such day, a
"Valuation Day"); and
 -------------       

              (ii) prepare a valuation report stating the Market Value of the
Eligible Collateral and any cash held in the Restricted Custodial Account as of
the close of business on each such Valuation Day ("Valuation Report").
                                                   ----------------   

          (b) On or prior to the fifth Business Day after each Valuation Day
referred to in subsection 3.04(a)(i)(1), the Pledgor shall cause the Custodian
to deliver by facsimile transmission to the Agent and the Pledgor the Valuation
Report, and, for any other Valuation Day, upon request of the Agent, the Pledger
shall cause the Custodian to deliver by facsimile transmission to the Agent the
related Valuation Report.

          (c) The Agent may conclusively rely on each Valuation Report.  The
Agent shall deliver to each Bank as soon as available, but on or before the
tenth day of each calendar quarter, and to the Pledgor along with each statement
of fees and interest due under the Credit Agreement, a quarterly statement
("Valuation Summary") showing the lowest Market Value of the Eligible Collateral
on a Valuation Day during such quarter or, in the case of a quarter in which the
Closing Date occurs or the Commitments have been terminated, showing the lowest
Market Value of the Eligible Collateral on a Valuation Day during such calendar
quarter during which the Commitments were in effect ("Lowest Quarterly Market
                                                      -----------------------
Value"), and the Market Value of the Eligible Collateral on each such Valuation
- -----                                                                          
Day during such calendar quarter.  The Lowest Quarterly Market Value so
determined by the Agent shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties in
the absence of manifest error.

     3.05 Release of Collateral.  (a) The Pledgor may, at any time and from 
          ---------------------                                                 
time to time (x) if any Loans or Bankers' Acceptances are outstanding, on one
Business Day prior written notice to the Custodian and the Agent and (y) if no
Loans or Bankers' Acceptances are outstanding, upon written notice to the
Custodian and the Agent, request that the Custodian release Collateral as
designated by the Pledgor from the Restricted Custodial Account ("Designated
                                                                  ----------
Collateral") (which notice shall describe the Designated Collateral in detail);
- ----------                                                                     
provided that there shall not have occurred and be continuing a Default or an
Event of Default on the date that the Pledgor requests a release 

                                      I-8
<PAGE>
 
of Designated Collateral, or on the date that all or any portion of the
Designated Collateral is released; and

          (b) Provided that the foregoing conditions shall have been satisfied,
the Pledgor shall be entitled to a release of the Designated Collateral.  At any
time after the occurrence and during the continuance of a Default or an Event of
Default (or if a Default or Event of Default would occur on the date that the
Designated Collateral is to be released) the Agent may provide written notice to
the Custodian suspending the Pledgor's right to release Collateral from the
Restricted Custodial Account; provided that, if the Agent has so notified the
Custodian and such Default or Event of Default shall no longer be continuing,
then, upon request of the Pledgor, the Agent shall provide written notice to the
Custodian rescinding such suspension.

     3.06 Additions of Collateral.  The Pledgor may at any time and from time to
          -----------------------                                               
time pledge additional Collateral pursuant hereto by depositing cash or other
Collateral in the Restricted Custodial Account and in the event Pledgor deposits
any additional Collateral, Pledgor shall notify the Agent in writing (which
notice shall describe the additional Collateral in detail) and cause the
Custodian to prepare and deliver a Valuation Report as of the related Valuation
Day as contemplated pursuant to Section 3.04(a)(3).


                                  ARTICLE IV

                        REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
                        ------------------------------

          The Pledgor represents and warrants as follows:

          (a) The Pledgor is (or at the time of transfer thereof to the Agent
or the Custodian will be) the legal and beneficial owner of the Collateral from
time to time transferred by the Pledgor to the Agent or to the Custodian, as
agent for the Agent, free and clear of any Lien except for the security interest
created by this Agreement and the security interest created by the Custodial
Agreement. No dispute, right of set-off, recoupment, counterclaim or defense
exists with respect to all or any part of the Collateral and no effective
financing statement or other instrument similar in effect covering all or any
part of the Collateral is on file in any recording office except such as may
have been filed in favor of the Agent relating to this Agreement.

          (b) No approval, consent, exemption, authorization or other action
by, or no notice to, or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory
body is necessary or required in connection with (i) the grant by the Pledgor of
the security interest granted hereby, or (ii) the perfection of or the exercise
by the Agent or the Custodian of its rights and 

                                      I-9
<PAGE>
 
remedies hereunder or under the Custodial Agreement (except as may have been
taken by or at the direction of the Pledgor).

          (c) The pledge and assignment of the Collateral pursuant to this
Agreement and the Custodial Agreement creates a valid and perfected first
priority security interest in the Collateral, securing the payment of the
Secured Obligations.

          (d) Unless otherwise notified by the Pledgor pursuant to Section
5.04, Pledgor's chief executive office and principal place of business, and all
books and records concerning the Collateral are located at One Post Street, San
Francisco, California.

          (e) All information heretofore, herein or hereafter supplied to the
Agent or the Custodian by or on behalf of the Pledgor with respect to the
Collateral is accurate and complete in all material respects.


                                   ARTICLE V

                             COVENANTS OF PLEDGOR
                             --------------------

          5.01  Delivery of Collateral.  All documents, certificates,
                ----------------------                               
instruments and writings, if any, evidencing any Collateral pledged concurrently
herewith shall be delivered to the Agent or the Custodian on or prior to the
execution and delivery of this Agreement.  All other documents, certificates,
instruments and writings, if any, hereafter evidencing Collateral or
constituting Collateral shall be delivered to the Agent or the Custodian
promptly upon the pledge thereof by the Pledgor.  All such documents,
certificates, instruments and writings, if any, shall be held by Custodian on
behalf of the Agent pursuant to the terms of the Custodial Agreement.  The
Pledgor will not cause or permit any document, instrument, or certificate
constituting or evidencing Collateral to at any time be in the actual or
constructive possession or control of any Person other than the Agent or a
bailee selected by the Agent (including Custodian) who is holding such
Collateral for the benefit of Agent.

          5.02  Further Assurances.  The Pledgor agrees that from time to time,
                ------------------                                             
at the expense of the Pledgor, the Pledgor will promptly execute and deliver all
further instruments and documents, and take all further action, that may be
necessary or desirable, or that the Agent may reasonably request, in order to
perfect and protect any security interest granted or purported to be granted
hereby or to enable the Agent to exercise and enforce its rights and remedies
hereunder or under the other Collateral Documents with respect to any
Collateral.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Pledgor will:
(i) execute and file such financing or continuation statements, or amendments
thereto, and such other instruments or notices, as may be necessary or
desirable, or as the Agent may reasonably 

                                     I-10
<PAGE>
 
request, in order to perfect and preserve the security interest granted or
purported to be granted hereby and (ii) at the Agent's reasonable request,
appear in and defend any action or proceeding that may adversely affect the
Pledgor's title to or the Agent's security interest in all or any part of the
Collateral constituting cash or Eligible Investments; provided that Pledgor
shall not be obligated to make such appearance or defense relating to actions or
proceedings challenging security interests junior to the security interest of
the Agent or to the extent the Pledgor shall provide evidence satisfactory to
the Agent that the Pledgor does not intend for such Collateral to constitute
Qualifying Collateral (as defined in the Credit Agreement).

          5.03  Transfers and other Liens.  Subject to Sections 3.03(d) and
                -------------------------                                  
3.05, the Pledgor agrees that it will not (a) sell, assign (by operation of law
or otherwise) or otherwise dispose of any of the Collateral or (b) create or
suffer to exist any Lien upon or with respect to any of the Collateral, or file
or record any financing statement with respect to the Collateral or otherwise
identify the Collateral as being subject to a pledge or security interest,
except for the security interest under this Agreement and the Custodial
Agreement.

          5.04  Chief Executive Office.  The Pledgor will (a) keep all books and
                ----------------------                                          
records pertaining to the Collateral at the location set forth in Article IV (or
such other location as to which Pledgor shall notify Agent pursuant to
subsection 5.04(b)(ii)) and (b) within 30 days after such change) give written
notice to the Agent of any changes in (i) the Pledgor's corporate name, any
tradenames or trade styles or any fictitious business names, or (ii) any such
location where books and records pertaining to the Collateral are kept, or the
location of the Pledgor's chief executive office and principal place of
business.

          5.05  Impairment of Security Interest.  Subject to the terms of this
                -------------------------------                               
Agreement and the Custodial Agreement Acknowledgement, including Sections 3.03
and 3.05, the Pledgor will not take or fail to take any action which would
impair the enforceability of the Agent's security interest in any Collateral.

          5.06  Voting.  Subject to the terms of this Agreement and the
                ------                                                 
Custodial Agreement Acknowledgement, including Sections 3.03 and 3.05, the
Pledgor will not cast any vote, give or grant any consent, waiver or
ratification or take any action with respect to the Collateral which would have
the effect of impairing the position or interest of the Agent or the Banks in
respect of the Collateral or would be inconsistent with or violate any provision
of this Agreement or any other Loan Documents.

                                     I-11
<PAGE>
 
          5.07  Inspection of Collateral and Information.  The Pledgor will keep
                ----------------------------------------                        
adequate records concerning the Collateral and will permit the Agent, any Bank
and their respective representatives to inspect the Pledgor's books and records
concerning the Collateral on the same terms and conditions as set forth in
Section 6.08 of the Credit Agreement.  The Pledgor will furnish to the Agent any
information which the Agent may from time to time request at the request of any
Bank concerning any covenant, provision or representation contained herein or
any other matter in connection with the Collateral.


                                  ARTICLE VI

                      REMEDIES, POWERS AND AUTHORIZATIONS
                      -----------------------------------

          6.01.  Agent Appointed Attorney-in-Fact.  The Pledgor hereby
                 --------------------------------                     
irrevocably appoints the Agent (and any of the Agent's officers, employees or
agents designated by the Agent) as the Pledgor's attorney-in-fact, with full
authority in the place and stead of the Pledgor and in the name of the Pledgor,
the Agent or otherwise, from time to time in the Agent's discretion upon the
occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default during any period
when Collateral shall have been pledged to Agent hereunder to take any action
and to execute any instrument that the Agent may deem necessary or advisable to
accomplish the purposes of this Agreement or the Custodial Agreement, including
(a) to file one or more financing or continuation statements, or amendments
thereto, relative to all or any part of the Collateral without the signature of
the Pledgor and (b) to ask, demand, collect, sue for, recover, compound, receive
and give acquittance and receipts for moneys due and to become due under or in
respect of any of the Collateral, (c) to receive, endorse and collect any
instruments or other Investments made payable to the Pledgor representing any
dividend, principal or interest payment or other distribution in respect of the
Collateral or any part thereof and to give full discharge for the same and (d)
to file any claims or take any action or institute any proceedings the Agent may
deem necessary or desirable for the collection of any of the Collateral or
otherwise to enforce the rights of the Agent with respect to any of the
Collateral.

          6.02.  Agent May Perform.  If the Pledgor fails to perform any
                 -----------------                                      
agreement contained herein, the Agent may (but shall have no obligation to)
itself perform, or cause performance of, such agreement, and the expenses of the
Agent incurred in connection therewith shall be payable by the Pledgor in
accordance with Section 7.02.

          6.03.  Standard of Care.  The powers conferred on the Agent hereunder
                 ----------------                                              
are solely to protect its interest in the Collateral and shall not impose any
duty upon it to exercise any such powers.  Except for the exercise of reasonable
care in the 

                                     I-12
<PAGE>
 
custody of any Collateral in its possession and the accounting for moneys
actually received by it hereunder, the Agent, acting in its capacity as Agent,
shall have no duty as to any Collateral, it being understood that the Agent
shall have no responsibility for (a) ascertaining or taking action with respect
to calls, conversions, exchanges, maturities, tenders or other matters relating
to any Collateral, whether or not the Agent has or is deemed to have knowledge
of such matters, (b) taking any necessary steps (other than steps taken in
accordance with the standard of care set forth above to maintain possession of
the Collateral) to preserve rights against any parties with respect to any
Collateral, (c) taking any necessary steps to collect or realize upon the
Secured Obligations or any guarantee therefor, or any part thereof, or any of
the Collateral, (d) initiating any action to protect the Collateral against the
possibility of a decline in market value, (e) any loss resulting from
Investments made, held or sold pursuant to Article III, except for a loss
resulting from the Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct in complying
with Article III, or (f) determining (i) the correctness of any statement or
calculation made by the Pledgor in any written or telex (tested or otherwise)
instructions or (ii) whether any deposit in the Collateral Accounts is proper.
The Agent shall be deemed to have exercised reasonable care in the custody and
preservation of Collateral in its possession if such Collateral is accorded
treatment substantially equal to that which the Agent accords its own property
of like kind. In addition to the foregoing and without limiting the generality
thereof, the Agent shall not be responsible for any actions or omissions of the
Custodian.

          6.04.  Remedies.
                 -------- 

          (a) If any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing,
the Agent may (i) sell any of the Collateral, (ii) transfer any or all of the
Collateral constituting cash to an account designated by the Agent or transfer
any or all of the Collateral to an account established in the Agent's name
(whether at the Agent or the Custodian or otherwise), or (iii) register title to
any Collateral in the name of the Agent or one of its nominees or agents,
without reference to any interest of the Pledgor.

          (b) If any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing,
the Agent may exercise in respect of the Collateral, in addition to all other
rights and remedies provided for herein or otherwise available to it, all the
rights and remedies of a secured party on default under the Uniform Commercial
Code as in effect in any relevant jurisdiction (the "Code") (whether or not the
                                                     ----                      
Code applies to the affected Collateral), under 31 CFR (S)(S) 306.115 through
306.122 (herein called the "Applicable CFR Sections"), and the Agent may also in
its sole discretion sell the Collateral or any part thereof in one or more
parcels at public or private sale, at any exchange or broker's board or at any
of the Agent's offices or elsewhere, 

                                     I-13
<PAGE>
 
for cash, on credit or for future delivery, at such time or times and at such
price or prices and upon such other terms as the Agent may deem commercially
reasonable, irrespective of the impact of any such sales on the market price of
the Collateral. Each purchaser at any such sale shall hold the property sold
absolutely free from any claim or right on the part of the Pledgor, and the
Pledgor hereby waives (to the extent permitted by applicable law) all rights of
redemption, stay and/or appraisal which it now has or may at any time in the
future have under any rule of law or statute now existing or hereafter enacted.
The Agent shall not be obligated to make any sale of Collateral regardless of
notice of sale having been given. The Agent may adjourn any public or private
sale from time to time by announcement at the time and place fixed therefor, and
such sale may, without further notice, be made at the time and place to which it
was so adjourned. The Pledgor hereby waives any claims against the Agent arising
by reason of the fact that the price at which any Collateral may have been sold
at such a private sale was less than the price which might have been obtained at
a public sale, even if (in the case of U.S. Government Securities) the Agent
accepts the first offer received and does not offer such Collateral to more than
one offeree.

          (c) The Pledgor hereby agrees that the Collateral is of a type
customarily sold on recognized markets and, accordingly, that no notice to any
Person is required prior to any sale of any of the Collateral pursuant to the
terms of this Agreement; provided that, without prejudice to the foregoing, the
Pledgor agrees that, to the extent notice of any such sale shall be required by
law, at least five days' notice to the Pledgor of the time and place of any
public sale or the time after which any private sale is to be made shall
constitute reasonable notification.

          (d) If the proceeds of any sale or other disposition of the
Collateral are insufficient to pay all the Secured Obligations, the Pledgor
shall be liable for the deficiency and the fees of any attorneys employed by the
Agent to collect such deficiency.

          6.05.  Application of Proceeds.  If any Event of Default shall have
                 -----------------------                                     
occurred and be continuing, all cash held by the Agent as Collateral and all
proceeds received by the Agent in respect of any sale of, collection from, or
other realization upon all or any part of the Collateral may, in the discretion
of the Agent, be held by the Agent as Collateral for, and/or then, or at any
other time thereafter, applied in full or in part by the Agent against, the
Secured Obligations in the following order of priority:

                                     I-14
<PAGE>
 
          FIRST:  To the payment of all costs and expenses of such sale,
      collection or other realization, including reasonable compensation to the
      Agent and its agents and counsel, and all other expenses, liabilities and
      advances made or incurred by the Agent in connection therewith, and all
      amounts for which the Agent is entitled to indemnification hereunder and
      all advances made by the Agent hereunder for the account of the Pledgor,
      and to the payment of all costs and expenses paid or incurred by the Agent
      in connection with the exercise of any right or remedy hereunder, all in
      accordance with Section 7.02;

          SECOND:  To the payment of all other Secured Obligations (for the
      ratable benefit of the holders thereof) in such order as the Agent shall
      elect; and

          THIRD:  To the payment to or upon the order of the Pledgor, or to
      whosoever may be lawfully entitled to receive the same or as a court of
      competent jurisdiction may direct, of any surplus then remaining from such
      proceeds.


                                  ARTICLE VII

                         INDEMNIFICATION AND EXPENSES
                         ----------------------------

          7.01 Indemnification.  The Pledgor agrees to indemnify the Agent and
               ---------------                                                
each Bank from and against any and all claims, losses and liabilities of any
kind or nature whatsoever which may at any time be imposed on, incurred by or
asserted against the Agent or a Bank as a result of any claim or threatened
claim by a Person not a party to this Agreement or by the Company (except for
claims by the Company against the Agent or a Bank that are successful on the
merits as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction) in any way relating
to, growing out of or resulting from this Agreement and the transactions
contemplated hereby (including enforcement of this Agreement), except to the
extent such claims, losses or liabilities result from the Agent's or such Bank's
gross negligence or willful misconduct as finally determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction.

          7.02  Expenses.  The Pledgor shall pay to the Agent upon demand the
                --------                                                     
amount of any and all costs and expenses, including the reasonable fees and
expenses of its counsel and of any experts and agents, that the Agent may incur
in connection with (a) the administration of this Agreement, (b) the custody,
preservation, use or operation of, or the sale of, collection from, or other
realization upon, any of the Collateral, (c) the exercise or enforcement of any
of the rights of the Agent hereunder, (d) the failure by the Pledgor to perform
or observe any of the provisions hereof.

                                     I-15
<PAGE>
 
                                 ARTICLE VIII

         CONTINUING SECURITY INTEREST; TRANSFER OF SECURED OBLIGATIONS
         -------------------------------------------------------------

          This Agreement shall create a continuing security interest in the
Collateral and shall (a) remain in full force and effect until the indefeasible
payment in full of the Secured Obligations and the cancellation or termination
of the Commitments, (b) be binding upon the Pledgor, its successors and assigns,
and (c) inure, together with the rights and remedies of the Agent hereunder, to
the benefit of the Agent and its successors, transferees and assigns. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing clause (c), but subject to the
provisions of Section 10.08 of the Credit Agreement, any Bank may assign or
otherwise transfer any Secured Obligations held by it to any other Person, and
such other Person shall thereupon become vested with all the benefits in respect
thereof granted to the Banks herein or otherwise. Upon the indefeasible payment
in full of all Secured Obligations and the cancellation or termination of the
Commitments, the security interest granted hereby shall terminate and all rights
to the Collateral shall revert to the Pledgor. Upon any such termination the
Agent will, at the Pledgor's expense, execute and deliver to the Pledgor such
documents as the Pledgor shall reasonably request to evidence such termination
(including the notice described in Article VIII of the Custodial Agreement
Acknowledgment) and the Pledgor shall be entitled to the return, upon its
request and at its expense, against receipt and without recourse to the Agent,
of such of the Collateral as shall not have been sold or otherwise applied
pursuant to the terms hereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
in this Agreement, it is agreed and understood that under the terms and
provisions of the Credit Agreement, the Pledgor is not required to pledge any
Collateral to Agent; provided that if the Pledgor pledges Collateral to Agent
the Pledgor and the Collateral shall be subject to this Agreement. This Article
VIII shall not limit the rights of the Pledgor under Section 3.03(d) or Section
3.06.


                                  ARTICLE IX

                                AGENT AS AGENT
                                --------------

          9.01 The Agent has been appointed to act as the Agent hereunder by the
Banks. The Agent shall be obligated, and shall have the right hereunder, to make
demands, to give notices, to exercise or refrain from exercising any rights, and
to take or refrain from taking any action (including the release or substitution
of Collateral), solely in accordance with this Agreement and the Credit
Agreement.

                                     I-16
<PAGE>
 
          9.02 The Agent shall at all times be the same Person that is the Agent
under the Credit Agreement.  Written notice of resignation by the Agent pursuant
to Section 9.09 of the Credit Agreement shall also constitute notice of
resignation as the Agent under this Agreement; removal of the Agent pursuant to
Section 9.09 of the Credit Agreement shall also constitute removal as the Agent
under this Agreement; and appointment of a successor Agent pursuant to Section
9.09 of the Credit Agreement shall also constitute appointment of a successor
Agent under this Agreement.  Upon the acceptance of any appointment as the
Agent under Section 9.09 of the Credit Agreement by a successor Agent, that
successor Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the
rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring or removed Agent under
this Agreement, and the retiring or removed Agent under this Agreement shall
promptly (i) transfer to such successor Agent all records and other documents
necessary or appropriate in connection with the performance of the duties of the
successor Agent under this Agreement, and (ii) execute and deliver to such
successor Agent such amendments to financing statements, and take such other
actions, as may be necessary or appropriate in connection with the assignment to
such successor Agent of the security interests created hereunder, whereupon such
retiring or removed Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations
under this Agreement.  After any retiring or removed Agent's resignation or
removal hereunder as the Agent, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to
its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it under this
Agreement while it was the Agent hereunder.

          9.03 In connection with the release of any Collateral under this
Agreement, the Custodial Agreement Acknowledgement or the Custodial Agreement,
the Agent may conclusively assume that no Default or Event of Default has
occurred and continues unless it has received written notice from the Pledgor or
any Bank to the contrary.  The Agent may conclusively rely on each Valuation
Report and the Market Value of the Collateral contained therein, and shall have
no duty or obligation to verify the contents of any Valuation Report (including
the Market Values contained therein) or to independently determine the Market
Value of any Collateral.


                                   ARTICLE X

                                 MISCELLANEOUS
                                 -------------

     10.01  Amendments.  No amendment or waiver of any provision of this
            ----------                                                  
Agreement and no consent with respect to any departure by the Pledgor therefrom,
shall be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Agent
and the Pledgor, and then any such waiver or consent shall be effective only in
the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given.

                                     I-17
<PAGE>
 
     10.02  Successors and Assigns.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be
            ----------------------                                            
binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective
successors and assigns, except that the Pledgor may not assign or transfer any
of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written
consent of the Agent.

     10.03  Governing Law and Jurisdiction.
            ------------------------------ 

          (a) THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA WITHOUT REFERENCE TO PRINCIPLES OF
CONFLICTS OF LAWS, EXCEPT AS REQUIRED BY MANDATORY PROVISIONS OF LAW AND TO THE
EXTENT THE VALIDITY OR PERFECTION OF THE LIENS HEREUNDER IN RESPECT OF ANY
COLLATERAL ARE GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF A JURISDICTION OTHER THAN CALIFORNIA.

          (b) ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY
BE BROUGHT IN THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA OR OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA, AND BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS
AGREEMENT, EACH OF THE PLEDGOR, THE AGENT AND THE BANKS CONSENTS, FOR ITSELF AND
IN RESPECT OF ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THOSE COURTS.
EACH OF THE PLEDGOR AND THE AGENT FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ITSELF AND THE BANKS
IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION, INCLUDING ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE
OR BASED ON THE GROUNDS OF FORUM NON CONVENIENS, WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER
                           --------------------                               
HAVE TO THE BRINGING OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN SUCH JURISDICTION IN RESPECT
OF THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY DOCUMENT RELATED HERETO.  THE PLEDGOR AND THE AGENT FOR
AND ON BEHALF OF ITSELF AND THE BANKS EACH WAIVES PERSONAL SERVICE OF ANY
SUMMONS, COMPLAINT OR OTHER PROCESS, WHICH MAY BE MADE BY ANY OTHER MEANS
PERMITTED BY CALIFORNIA LAW.

     10.04  Waiver of Jury Trial.  THE PLEDGOR AND THE AGENT FOR AND ON BEHALF
            --------------------                                              
OF ITSELF AND THE BANKS EACH WAIVES THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO A TRIAL BY JURY
OF ANY CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION BASED UPON OR ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS
AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY, IN ANY ACTION,
PROCEEDING OR OTHER LITIGATION OF ANY TYPE BROUGHT BY ANY OF THE PARTIES AGAINST
ANY OTHER PARTY OR ANY AGENT-RELATED PERSON, PARTICIPANT OR ASSIGNEE, WHETHER
WITH RESPECT TO CONTRACT CLAIMS, TORT CLAIMS, OR OTHERWISE.  THE PLEDGOR AND THE
AGENT FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ITSELF AND THE BANKS EACH AGREES THAT ANY SUCH CLAIM
OR CAUSE OF ACTION SHALL BE TRIED BY A COURT TRIAL WITHOUT A JURY.  WITHOUT
LIMITING THE FOREGOING, THE PARTIES FURTHER AGREE THAT THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHT TO
A TRIAL BY JURY IS WAIVED BY OPERATION OF THIS SECTION AS TO ANY ACTION,
COUNTERCLAIM OR OTHER PROCEEDING WHICH SEEKS, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, TO CHALLENGE
THE VALIDITY OR ENFORCEABILITY OF THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY PROVISION HEREOF.  THIS
WAIVER SHALL APPLY TO ANY SUBSEQUENT AMENDMENTS, RENEWALS, SUPPLEMENTS OR
MODIFICATIONS TO THIS AGREEMENT.

                                     I-18
<PAGE>
 
     10.05  Notices; Written Instructions.
            ----------------------------- 

          (a) All written instructions, notices, requests and other
communications shall be in writing (including, unless the context expressly
otherwise provides, by facsimile transmission, provided that any matter
transmitted by facsimile shall be followed promptly by delivery of a hard copy
original thereof) and mailed, faxed or delivered, to the address or facsimile
number specified for notices below; or to such other address as shall be
designated by any party in a written notice to the other parties.

          (b) All such notices, requests and communications shall, when
transmitted by overnight delivery, or faxed, be effective when delivered for
overnight (next-day) delivery, or transmitted in legible form by facsimile
machine, respectively, or if mailed, upon the third Business Day after the date
deposited into the U.S. mail, or if delivered, upon delivery.

          Address of the Agent:
          -------------------- 

          Bank of America National Trust and
          Savings Association
          1455 Market Street, 12th Floor
          San Francisco, CA 94103
          Attention:    Ivo Bakovic
                    Vice President
                    Agency Management
                      Services #5596
          Facsimile Number: (415) 622-4894

          Address of the Pledgor:
          ---------------------- 

          McKesson Corporation
          One Post Street
          San Francisco, CA 94104
          Attention:  Alan Pearce

          Facsimile:  (415) 983-8464


     10.06  Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of
            ------------                                                  
separate counterparts, each of which, when so executed, shall be deemed an
original, and all of said counterparts taken together shall be deemed to
constitute but one and the same instrument.

     10.07  No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies.  No failure to exercise and no delay
            ------------------------------                                      
in exercising, on the part of the Agent, any right, remedy, power or privilege
hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial
exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other
or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or
privilege.  The rights and remedies of the parties provided herein are
cumulative and are in addition 

                                     I-19
<PAGE>
 
to, and not exclusive of, any rights or remedies provided by law.

     10.08  Severability.  The illegality or unenforceability of any provision
            ------------                                                      
of this Agreement or any instrument or agreement required hereunder shall not in
any way affect or impair the legality or enforceability of the remaining
provisions of this Agreement or any instrument or agreement required hereunder.

     10.09  No Third Parties Benefited.  This Agreement is made and entered into
            --------------------------                                          
for the sole protection and legal benefit of the Agent, the Pledgor and the
Banks for which the Agent acts as agent, and their permitted successors and
assigns, and no other person shall be a direct or indirect beneficiary of, or
have any direct or indirect cause of action or claim in connection with, this
Agreement.

     10.10  Entire Agreement.  This Agreement embodies the entire agreement and
            ----------------                                                   
understanding among the Pledgor and the Agent and supersedes all prior or
contemporaneous agreements and understandings of such parties, verbal or
written, relating to the subject matter hereof.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to
be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the
day and year first written above.


                                             MCKESSON CORPORATION
                                          
                                          
                                             By:________________________________
                                                
                                             Its:_______________________________
                                                 
                                          
                                          
                                             BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST AND 
                                             SAVINGS ASSOCIATION, as Agent
                                          
                                          
                                             By:________________________________
                                                
                                             Its:_______________________________
                                           

                                     I-20
<PAGE>
 
                                   EXHIBIT J
                 [FORM OF] CUSTODIAL AGREEMENT ACKNOWLEDGMENT
                 --------------------------------------------


          This CUSTODIAL AGREEMENT ACKNOWLEDGMENT (this "Agreement") is entered
                                                         ---------             
into as of March 31, 1995 among McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation
(the "Company"), Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, a
      -------                                                             
national banking association (the "Custodian") in its capacity as Custodian
                                   ---------                               
under the Custodial Agreement (as hereinafter defined), and Bank of America
National Trust and Savings Association, as agent (in such capacity, the "Agent")
                                                                         -----  
for the several financial institutions (the "Banks") from time to time party to
                                             -----                             
the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined).

                                   RECITALS
                                   --------

          A.   The Company and the Custodian have entered into a Custody
Agreement dated as of November 21, 1994 (the "Custodial Agreement") pursuant to
which, among other things, the Custodian has established the Restricted
Custodial Account (as hereinafter defined) on behalf of the Company to hold and
maintain certain securities, distributions with respect thereto and other
property.

          B.   The Agent and the Banks have entered into a Credit Agreement
dated as of March 31, 1995 (the "Credit Agreement") with the Company, Medis
                                 ----------------                          
Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc. ("Medis"), Chemical Bank, as Co-Agent,
and Bank of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative Agent, pursuant to which
the Banks have made certain commitments, subject to the terms and conditions set
forth in the Credit Agreement, to extend certain credit facilities to the
Company and Medis.

          C.   The Company has entered into a Guaranty dated as of March 31,
1995 (the "Guaranty") pursuant to which the Company has guarantied the loans and
other obligations of Medis under the Credit Agreement and other loan documents.
 
          D.   Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement and the Guaranty,
the Company and the Agent have entered into a Pledge and Security Agreement
dated as of March 31, 1995 (the "Pledge Agreement") pursuant to which the
                                 ----------------                        
Company has granted a security interest in favor of the Agent in the Collateral
(as defined in the Pledge Agreement), including, without limitation, the
Restricted Custodial Account and the securities and other property therein.

          E.   The Agent has required that the Company and the Custodian enter
into this Agreement to, among other things, set forth the terms on which the
Custodian shall operate the Restricted Custodial Account and hold the
Collateral.

                                      J-1
<PAGE>
 
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements, provisions
and covenants contained herein, the parties agree as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I

                          DEFINITIONS AND REFERENCES
                          --------------------------

     1.01  General Definitions.  All capitalized terms used in this Agreement
           -------------------                                               
(including in the recitals hereof) and not otherwise defined herein shall have
the meanings assigned to them in the Pledge Agreement.  As used in this
Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

     "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on
      ------------                                                             
which commercial banks in New York City or San Francisco are authorized or
required by law to close.

     "CFR" means the United States Code of Federal Regulations, as from time to
      ---                                                                      
time amended.

     "Investments" means those investments, if any, made by the Custodian upon
      -----------                                                             
direction from the Company or the Agent, as the case may be, with amounts on
deposit in the Restricted Custodial Account pursuant to Article III.

     "Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, business trust,
      ------                                                                
joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, or governmental
authority.

     "U.S. Government Securities" means securities issued or directly and
      --------------------------                                         
unconditionally guaranteed as to interest and principal by the United States
Government or its agencies identified specifically by type on Schedule A, as
                                                              ----------    
supplemented from time to time in accordance with subsection 3.01(f).

     1.02  Other Interpretive Provisions.  (a) The meanings of defined terms are
           -----------------------------                                        
equally applicable to the singular and plural forms of the defined terms.

          (b)  The words "hereof", "herein", "hereunder" and similar words refer
to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this
Agreement; and subsection, Section, Schedule and Exhibit references are to this
Agreement unless otherwise specified.

          (c)  (i)  The term "documents" includes any and all instruments,
documents, agreements, certificates, indentures, notices and other writings,
however evidenced.

              (ii)  The term "including" is not limiting and means "including
without limitation."

             (iii)  In the computation of periods of time from a specified
date to a later specified date, the word "from" means 

                                      J-2
<PAGE>
 
"from and including"; the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding",
and the word "through" means "to and including."

          (d) Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, (i) references to
agreements (including this Agreement) and other contractual instruments shall be
deemed to include all subsequent amendments and other modifications thereto, but
only to the extent such amendments and other modifications are not prohibited by
the terms of this Agreement, and (ii) references to any statute or regulation
are to be construed as including all statutory and regulatory provisions
consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing or interpreting the statute or
regulation.

          (e) The captions and headings of this Agreement are for convenience
of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.

          (f) This Agreement is the result of negotiations among and have been
reviewed by counsel to the Agent, the Company and the Custodian and is the
product of all parties.  Accordingly, it shall not be construed against the
Banks or the Agent merely because of the Agent's or Banks' involvement in its
preparation.


                                  ARTICLE II

                   OPERATION OF RESTRICTED CUSTODIAL ACCOUNT
                   -----------------------------------------

     2.01  Restricted Custodial Account.  The Company hereby authorizes and
           ----------------------------                                    
directs the Custodian to maintain at its office at 1455 Market Street, San
Francisco, California 94103, as a restricted account in the name of the Company
but pledged to and under the dominion and control of the Agent as provided
herein, an investment account designated as Account No. 197427321 (Ref:
"McKesson Corporation") (the "Restricted Custodial Account").

     2.02  Operation of Restricted Custodial Account.  (a)  The Restricted
           -----------------------------------------                   
Custodial Account shall be operated, and all Investments shall be purchased and
registered or held (as applicable), in accordance with the terms of the
Custodial Agreement except as specifically set forth in this Agreement.

          (b) Anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the
Restricted Custodial Account shall be subject to such applicable laws, and such
applicable regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
and of any other appropriate banking or governmental authority, as may now or
hereafter be in effect.

          (c) The Custodian shall send the Agent and the Company written
account statements with respect to the Restricted Custodial Account upon the
written request of the Agent.

                                      J-3
<PAGE>
 
          (d) The obligations and liabilities of the Company and the Custodian
with respect to the Restricted Custodial Account shall be governed by the
Custodial Agreement, except as specifically provided otherwise in this
Agreement.


                                  ARTICLE III

                       PERMITTED INVESTMENTS OF AMOUNTS
                      IN THE RESTRICTED CUSTODIAL ACCOUNT
                      -----------------------------------

     3.01 Permitted Investments.  (a)  Cash held by the Custodian in the 
          ---------------------                                                 
Restricted Custodial Account shall not be (i) invested or reinvested or (ii)
transferred from the Restricted Custodial Account, in either case except as
provided in this Article III.

          (b) So long as the Custodian shall not have received written notice
from the Agent suspending the Company's right to direct the investment of funds
on deposit in the Restricted Custodial Account, the Custodian shall, in
accordance with the Company's instructions with respect to the purchase and sale
of Investments, given to the Custodian from time to time in accordance with the
Custodial Agreement, make such purchase or sale of Investments, in the
Custodian's name and as custodian under this Agreement and the Custodial
Agreement.  If the Custodian has received notice from the Agent suspending the
Company's right to direct such investments under this subsection 3.01(b), such
suspension of the Company's rights may be reversed by a subsequent written
notice by the Agent to the Custodian to that effect.

          (c) Promptly upon the purchase of any Investment, the Custodian shall
take all steps that it customarily takes in the ordinary course of its business
to ensure that such Investment is transferred on its books to the Company,
subject to a first priority security interest in favor of the Agent, and to
ensure that such Investment is held in the Restricted Custodial Account.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Custodian shall promptly
identify in its records, by book entry or otherwise, that the Restricted
Custodial Account and any Investments therein belong to the Company, subject to
a first priority security interest in favor of the Agent.

          (d) Anything contained herein or in the Custodial Agreement to the
contrary notwithstanding, the Custodian shall, if and as directed in writing by
the Agent, (i) transfer any or all of the Collateral constituting cash to an
account designated by the Agent or transfer any or all of the Collateral to an
account established in the Agent's name (whether at the Agent or the Custodian
or otherwise), (ii) otherwise deal with the Collateral as directed by the Agent
in writing; provided, that, as between the Agent and the Company, the terms of
the Pledge Agreement shall control such directions of the Agent.

                                      J-4
<PAGE>
 
          (e) Subject to Section 3.01(d), any interest, cash dividends or other
cash distributions received in respect of any Investments (other than proceeds
from the sale of an Investment) shall be promptly transferred in accordance with
the provisions of the Custodial Agreement or to an account designated by the
Company.  Any distribution of property other than cash in respect of any
Investment shall be held in the Restricted Custodial Account and the net
proceeds of any sale or payment of any Investments shall be held in the
Restricted Custodial Account pending investment subject to the Company's rights
under Section 3.06 of the Pledge Agreement.

          (f) The Company and the Agent may, from time to time, supplement
Schedule A by written instructions signed by both of them.  The Agent may
- ----------                                                               
condition its execution of such written instructions upon receiving such
opinions of counsel with respect to perfection of its security interest in
investments named in such supplement as it may require.

          (g) Custodian shall hold all Investments in U.S. Government
Securities directly or through a Federal Reserve Bank of the United States.

     3.02  Transfer of Collateral.  In the event that the Company delivers a
           ----------------------                                           
notice to release Designated Collateral pursuant to Section 3.05 of the Pledge
Agreement and the Custodian shall not have received a notice from the Agent
suspending the Company's right to release Collateral as provided in Section
3.05(b) of the Pledge Agreement by 9:00 a.m. (San Francisco time) on the date
specified for the release of the Designated Collateral in the Company's notice,
the Custodian shall be entitled to transfer Collateral designated by the Company
from the Restricted Custodial Account in accordance with the Company's written
instructions.


                                  ARTICLE IV

               VALUATION OF COLLATERAL; REPORTS BY THE CUSTODIAN
               -------------------------------------------------

     4.01  Valuation of Collateral.  The Custodian shall determine the Market
           -----------------------                                           
Value of all Eligible Collateral and deliver Valuation Reports to the Agent as
provided in Section 3.04 of the Pledge Agreement.  The Company and the Agent
each acknowledge that the Custodian employs one or more nationally recognized
pricing services, financial periodicals and publications to ascribe market
values to some or all of the Collateral.  The Company and the Agent each
acknowledge that these ascribed values may not equal the actual market value of
the Collateral and that neither the Custodian nor any vendor from whom the
Custodian receives pricing information, guarantees their accuracy.

                                      J-5
<PAGE>
 
                                   ARTICLE V

                     ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF SECURITY INTEREST
                     IN FAVOR OF AGENT; WAIVER OF SET-OFF
                     ------------------------------------

          (a) The Custodian hereby confirms that it has received a copy of the
Pledge Agreement and acknowledges the security interest granted by the Company
in favor of the Agent in the Collateral.

          (b) The Custodian hereby further acknowledges that it holds the
Restricted Custodial Account, and all other Collateral registered to or held
therein, for the benefit of, and subject to such security interest in favor of,
the Agent.  The Custodian shall, by book entry or otherwise, identify the
Restricted Custodial Account, and all other Collateral registered to or held
therein, as being subject to such security interest in favor of the Agent.

          (c) The Company, the Custodian and the Agent hereby agree that in the
event any dispute arises with respect to the payment, ownership or right to
possession of the Restricted Custodial Account or any other Collateral
registered to or held therein, the Custodian shall take such actions and shall
refrain from taking such actions with respect thereto as may be directed by the
Agent, regardless of the rights of the Company under the Custodial Agreement.
This paragraph (c) shall not affect or limit the Company's rights or remedies
against the Agent if the Agent directs the Custodian to take any action which
the Agent is not entitled to direct or take under the Credit Agreement or the
other Loan Documents.

          (d) The Custodian shall not exercise any right of set-off, banker's
lien, counterclaim or similar right against any of the Collateral; provided that
                                                                   --------     
the Custodian may deduct, from (i) the Collateral, or otherwise from the
Restricted Custodial Account, any amount necessary to settle any security
transaction related thereto, in accordance with the Custodial Agreement, and
(ii) any payments or cash distributions on or with respect to any Investments,
any usual and ordinary transaction and administration fees payable in connection
with the administration and operation of the Restricted Custodial Account.
Notwithstanding anything herein, in the Credit Agreement, in the Pledge
Agreement or any related documents to the contrary, the Agent and the Company
hereby agree that the continuing lien and pledge on, and security interest in,
the Collateral granted to the Custodian by the Company pursuant to the Custodial
Agreement shall be equal to the security interest of the Agent but only to the
extent that such lien, pledge and security interest of the Custodian secures the
obligations of the Company to the Custodian under the Custodial Agreement and
that such lien, pledge and security interest of the Custodian shall be junior to
the security interest of the Agent to the extent such lien, pledge and security
interest secures 

                                      J-6
<PAGE>
 
obligations of the Company to the Custodian other than those arising under the
Custodial Agreement.


                                  ARTICLE VI

                 EXCULPATION AND INDEMNIFICATION OF CUSTODIAN
                 --------------------------------------------

     6.01 Custodian's Duties.  The Custodian's duties hereunder are only those
          ------------------                                                  
specifically provided herein and no implied duties shall be read into this
Agreement, and the Custodian shall incur no liability whatsoever for any actions
or omissions hereunder except for any such liability arising out of or in
connection with the Custodian's gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The
Custodian shall be fully protected and shall suffer no liability in acting in
accordance with any written instructions reasonably believed by it to have been
given (a) by the Agent with respect to any aspect of the operation of the
Restricted Custodial Account (including any such instructions relating to any
investments of any amounts on deposit therein) or (b) by the Company, to the
extent provided in Section 3.01, with respect to any investments of any amounts
on deposit in the Restricted Custodial Account or in Section 3.02, with respect
to the transfer of Collateral.  The Custodian shall have no obligation to
determine whether or not an Event of Default under the Credit Agreement shall
have occurred.  The Custodian shall not be liable or deemed to be in default
hereunder for any failure or delay in performance of any duty in whole or in
part arising out of or caused by circumstances beyond its control including,
without limitation, acts of God, interruption, delay in, or loss (partial or
complete) of electrical power or of computer (hardware or software) or
communication services; act of civil or military authority; sabotage, war or
other government action; civil disturbance or riot; strike or other industrial
dispute; national emergency; epidemic; flood, earthquake, fire, or other
catastrophe; government, judicial, or self-regulatory organization order, rule,
or regulation; energy or natural resource difficulty or shortage; and inability
to obtain or timely to obtain materials, equipment, or transportation.

     6.02 Indemnification.  The Company agrees to indemnify the Custodian from
          ---------------                                                     
and against any and all claims, losses, liabilities and expenses (including
reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and the reasonable allocated charges of
internal counsel) in any way relating to, growing out of or resulting from this
Agreement or the performance of its obligations hereunder, except to the extent
arising out of or in connection with the Custodian's gross negligence or willful
misconduct.  The Custodian agrees to indemnify the Company, the Agent and the
Banks from and against any and all claims, losses, liabilities and expenses
(including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and the reasonable allocated
charges of internal counsel) in any way relating to, growing out of or resulting
from any actions 

                                      J-7
<PAGE>
 
taken by the Custodian under this Agreement amounting to gross negligence or
willful misconduct of the Custodian or its officers or employees, except for
consequential damages caused thereby. The Agent, for itself and on behalf of the
Banks, agrees to indemnify the Custodian from and against any and all claims,
losses, liabilities and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and
expenses and the reasonable allocated charges of internal counsel) in any way
relating to, growing out of or resulting from any actions taken by the Agent or
its officers or employees under this Agreement or the Pledge Agreement amounting
to negligence or willful misconduct, except for consequential damages caused
thereby. The Company agrees to release, indemnify and defend against, and each
of the Company and the Agent, for itself and on behalf of the Banks, agrees to
hold the Custodian harmless against, any risk, loss, claim, liability, demand,
damage or expense resulting from and/or related to the ascribed market value of
the Collateral, including without limitation, claims made against the Company or
the Agent by any third party. The provisions of this Article shall survive
termination of this Agreement.


                                  ARTICLE VII

                REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES BY THE CUSTODIAN
                -----------------------------------------------

     The Custodian hereby represents and warrants to the Company and the Agent
as follows:

          (a) The Custodian has all necessary corporate power and authority to
enter into and perform this Agreement.

          (b) The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by the
Custodian have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the
part of the Custodian. This Agreement constitutes the valid, legal and binding
agreement of the Custodian, enforceable in accordance with its terms.

          (c) The Custodian is (i) a national banking association and (ii)
eligible to maintain custodial book entry accounts with a Federal Reserve Bank
under Sections 306.115 through 306.122 of Title 31 of the CFR. In the ordinary
course of its business, the Custodian accepts for deposit items similar to the
Eligible Investments as a service for its customers, and maintains securities
accounts in the names of such customers reflecting ownership of or interests in
such items. The Custodian is a "financial intermediary" (as that term is defined
in Section 8-313 of the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of
California) and is acting in such capacity for purposes of this Agreement.

          (d) At the time any Collateral is valued in any Valuation Report, the
Custodian's Custody Unit located at the address set forth in Section 10.05(b)
will not have received, acknowledged or accepted any notice, order, registration
or 

                                      J-8
<PAGE>
 
other document which purports to constitute any pledge, claim, security
interest, lien, encumbrance or adverse claim of any kind with respect to such
Collateral, other than the pledge and security interest in favor of the Agent
pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, or been served with legal process with respect
to such Collateral. The Custodian has not sold, transferred, assigned, pledged
or granted, and after the date hereof the Custodian will not, except as
specified in Article III, paragraph (d) of Article V or subsection 9.03(d),
sell, transfer, assign, pledge or grant a security interest in, the Collateral,
or any part thereof, to any Person, including the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York, any other Federal Reserve Bank, the United States Treasury or any other
transferee or pledgee eligible to maintain a book-entry account in its name with
a Federal Reserve Bank.


                                 ARTICLE VIII

                                  TERMINATION
                                  -----------

          This Agreement shall terminate, and all rights to the Restricted
Custodial Account and all other Collateral registered to or held therein shall
revert to the Company, upon the Custodian's receipt of written notice, signed by
an authorized officer of the Agent, that the Pledge Agreement has terminated.


                                  ARTICLE IX

                   RESIGNATION AND REMOVAL OF THE CUSTODIAN
                   ----------------------------------------

     9.01 Removal.  The Custodian may be removed at any time by written notice
          -------                                                             
given by the Agent to the Custodian and the Company, but such removal shall not
become effective until a successor Custodian shall have been appointed in
accordance with Section 9.03 and shall have accepted such appointment in
writing.

     9.02 Resignation.  The Custodian may resign at any time by giving not less
          -----------                                                          
than thirty days' written notice to the Agent and the Company, but such
resignation shall not become effective until a successor Custodian shall have
been appointed in accordance with Section 9.03 and shall have accepted such
appointment in writing.  If an instrument of acceptance by a successor Custodian
shall not have been delivered to the resigning Custodian within thirty days
after the giving of any such notice of resignation, the resigning Custodian may,
at the expense of the Company, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for
the appointment of a successor Custodian.

     9.03 Successor Custodian.  (a)  If the Custodian resigns or is removed
          -------------------                                              
hereunder or becomes incapable of acting or is adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent,
or if a receiver, liquidator or conservator of the Custodian, or of its
property, shall be 

                                      J-9
<PAGE>
 
appointed, or if any public officer shall take charge or control of the
Custodian, or of its property or affairs, the Company may appoint an Approved
Custodian as successor hereunder or, with the consent of the Agent and Majority
Banks, may appoint another entity complying with Section 9.03(b) as successor
hereunder.

          (b) Any Custodian appointed under the provisions of Section 9.03(a)
in succession to the Custodian shall be either (i) an Approved Custodian or (ii)
a bank or trust company or banking association in good standing having capital
stock and surplus aggregating at least $1,000,000,000, which, in the case of
either (i) or (ii), shall be authorized by law to perform all the duties imposed
upon it by this Agreement and able to make the representations contained in
subsections (a), (b) and (c) of Article VII.

          (c) Any company into which the Custodian may be merged or converted
or with which it may be consolidated or any company resulting from any merger,
conversion or consolidation to which it shall be a party, or any company to
which the Custodian may sell or transfer all or substantially all of its custody
business shall be the successor to the Custodian hereunder without the execution
or filing of any paper or the performance of any further act, if and only if
such company shall be either (i) an Approved Custodian or (ii) a bank or trust
company or banking association in good standing having capital stock and surplus
aggregating at least $1,000,000,000, which, in the case of either (i) or (ii),
shall be authorized by law to perform all the duties imposed upon it by this
Agreement and able to make the representations contained in clauses (a), (b) and
(c) of Article VII.

          (d) Upon the appointment of a successor Custodian and its acceptance
of such appointment and upon payment of all Obligations (as defined in the
Custodial Agreement) and all fees and expenses owed to the Custodian hereunder,
the resigning or removed Custodian shall transfer all items of Collateral held
by it to such successor (which items of Collateral shall be deposited in a new
Restricted Custodial Account established and maintained by such successor) and
the original Custodian shall deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit A with
                                                                  ---------     
respect to all Collateral so transferred.  Following such appointment all
references herein to the Custodian shall be deemed a reference to such
successor; provided that the provisions of Article VI hereof and of Section 8 of
           --------                                                             
the Custodial Agreement shall continue to inure to the benefit of the resigning
or removed Custodian with respect to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by
it under this Agreement while it was the Custodian hereunder.

                                     J-10
<PAGE>
 
                                   ARTICLE X

                                 MISCELLANEOUS
                                 -------------

     10.01  Amendments; Conflicts With Custodial Agreement.  No amendment or
            ----------------------------------------------                  
waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Custodial Agreement and no
consent with respect to any departure by the Company or the Custodian therefrom,
shall be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Agent,
the Company, and the Custodian, and then any such waiver or consent shall be
effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which
given.  In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the
terms of the Custodial Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

     10.02  Successors and Assigns.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be
            ----------------------                                            
binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective
successors and assigns, except that neither the Company nor the Custodian
(except as provided in Section 9.03(c)) may assign or transfer any of its rights
or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of each of
the other parties hereto.

     10.03  Governing Law.  (a) THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND
            -------------                                               
CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA WITHOUT
REFERENCE TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS, EXCEPT AS REQUIRED BY MANDATORY
PROVISIONS OF LAW AND TO THE EXTENT THE VALIDITY OR PERFECTION OF THE LIENS
HEREUNDER IN RESPECT OF ANY COLLATERAL ARE GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF A JURISDICTION
OTHER THAN CALIFORNIA.

          (b)  ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY
BE BROUGHT IN THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA OR OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA, AND BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS
AGREEMENT, EACH OF THE COMPANY, THE AGENT (FOR ITSELF AND ON BEHALF OF THE
BANKS) AND THE CUSTODIAN CONSENTS, FOR ITSELF AND IN RESPECT OF ITS PROPERTY, TO
THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THOSE COURTS.  EACH OF THE COMPANY, THE AGENT
(FOR ITSELF AND ON BEHALF OF THE BANKS) AND THE CUSTODIAN IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY
OBJECTION, INCLUDING ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OR BASED ON THE
GROUNDS OF FORUM NON CONVENIENS, WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE
           --------------------                                           
BRINGING OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN SUCH JURISDICTION IN RESPECT OF THIS
AGREEMENT OR ANY DOCUMENT RELATED HERETO.  THE COMPANY, THE AGENT (FOR ITSELF
AND ON BEHALF OF THE BANKS) AND THE CUSTODIAN EACH WAIVES PERSONAL SERVICE OF
ANY SUMMONS, COMPLAINT OR OTHER PROCESS, WHICH MAY BE MADE BY ANY OTHER MEANS
PERMITTED BY CALIFORNIA LAW.

     10.04  Waiver of Jury Trial.  THE COMPANY, THE AGENT (FOR ITSELF AND ON
            --------------------                                            
BEHALF OF THE BANKS) AND THE CUSTODIAN EACH WAIVES THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO A
TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION BASED UPON OR ARISING OUT OF OR
RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY, IN
ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR OTHER LITIGATION OF ANY TYPE BROUGHT 

                                     J-11
<PAGE>
 
BY ANY OF THE PARTIES AGAINST ANY OTHER PARTY, WHETHER WITH RESPECT TO CONTRACT
CLAIMS, TORT CLAIMS, OR OTHERWISE. THE COMPANY, THE AGENT (FOR ITSELF AND ON
BEHALF OF THE BANKS) AND THE CUSTODIAN EACH AGREES THAT ANY SUCH CLAIM OR CAUSE
OF ACTION SHALL BE TRIED BY A COURT TRIAL WITHOUT A JURY. WITHOUT LIMITING THE
FOREGOING, THE PARTIES FURTHER AGREE THAT THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY
JURY IS WAIVED BY OPERATION OF THIS SECTION AS TO ANY ACTION, COUNTERCLAIM OR
OTHER PROCEEDING WHICH SEEKS, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, TO CHALLENGE THE VALIDITY OR
ENFORCEABILITY OF THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY PROVISION HEREOF. THIS WAIVER SHALL
APPLY TO ANY SUBSEQUENT AMENDMENTS, RENEWALS, SUPPLEMENTS OR MODIFICATIONS TO
THIS AGREEMENT.

     10.05  Notices; Written Instructions.
            ----------------------------- 

          (a) All written instructions, notices, requests and other
communications shall be in writing (including, unless the context expressly
otherwise provides, by facsimile transmission, provided that any matter
transmitted by facsimile shall be followed promptly by delivery of a hard copy
original thereof) and mailed, faxed or delivered, to the address or facsimile
number specified for notices below; or to such other address as shall be
designated by any party in a written notice to the other parties.

          (b)  All such notices, requests and communications shall, when
transmitted by overnight delivery, or faxed, be effective when delivered for
overnight (next-day) delivery, or transmitted in legible form by facsimile
machine, respectively, or if mailed, upon the third Business Day after the date
deposited into the U.S. mail, or if delivered, upon delivery.

          Address of the Agent:
          -------------------- 

          Bank of America National Trust and
          Savings Association
          1455 Market Street, 12th Floor
          San Francisco, CA 94103
          Attention:    Ivo Bakovic
                     Vice President
                     Agency Management Services #5596
          Facsimile Number:  (415) 622-4894

          Address of the Company:
          ---------------------- 

          McKesson Corporation
          One Post Street
          San Francisco, CA 94104
          Attention:

          Facsimile:  (415) 983-8464

                                     J-12
<PAGE>
 
               Address of the Custodian:
               ------------------------ 

               Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association
               1455 Market Street, 16th Floor
               San Francisco, CA  94103

               Attention:  Rick Hawkins
 
               Facsimile: (415) 622-5167

     10.06  Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of
            ------------                                                  
separate counterparts, each of which, when so executed, shall be deemed an
original, and all of said counterparts taken together shall be deemed to
constitute but one and the same instrument.

     10.07  No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies.  No failure to exercise and no delay
            ------------------------------                                      
in exercising, on the part of the Agent, any right, remedy, power or privilege
hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial
exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other
or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or
privilege.  The rights and remedies of the parties provided herein are
cumulative and are in addition to, and not exclusive of, any rights or remedies
provided by law.

     10.08  Severability.  The illegality or unenforceability of any provision
            ------------                                                      
of this Agreement or any instrument or agreement required hereunder shall not in
any way affect or impair the legality or enforceability of the remaining
provisions of this Agreement or any instrument or agreement required hereunder.

     10.09  No Third Parties Benefited.  This Agreement is made and entered into
            --------------------------                                          
for the sole protection and legal benefit of the Custodian, the Company, the
Agent, and the Banks for which the Agent acts as the Agent, and their permitted
successors and assigns, and no other Person shall be a direct or indirect
beneficiary of, or have any direct or indirect cause of action or claim in
connection with, this Agreement.

     10.10  Entire Agreement.  This Agreement embodies the entire agreement and
            ----------------                                                   
understanding among the Custodian, on one hand, and the Company and the Agent,
on the other, and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements and
understandings of such parties, verbal or written, relating to the subject
matter hereof.

                                     J-13
<PAGE>
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the day
and year first above written.

The Company:             McKESSON CORPORATION


                         By:_________________________________________
                         Its:________________________________________


The Agent:               BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
                         AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION,
                         as Agent


                         By:_________________________________________
                         Its:________________________________________


The Custodian:           BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
                         AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION


                         By:_________________________________________
                         Its:________________________________________


                         By:_________________________________________
                         Its:________________________________________

                                     J-14
<PAGE>
 
                                  Schedule A
                                  ----------

U.S. GOVERNMENT SECURITIES
- --------------------------


                                       1
<PAGE>
 
                                                                       EXHIBIT A


RE:  McKesson Restricted Custodial Account


                 CERTIFICATION OF THE CUSTODIAN UPON TRANSFER

     Reference is made to the Custodial Agreement Acknowledgment dated as of
March 31, 1995 (the "Agreement") among McKesson Corporation (the "Company"),
Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association (the "Custodian") and
Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, as Agent ("Agent").
Terms which are defined in the Agreement are used herein with the meanings given
them in the Agreement.

     Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the Custodian hereby represents and
warrants to the Agent that:

     (a) The person signing this instrument on behalf of the Custodian is the
duly elected, qualified and acting officer of the Custodian as indicated below
such officer's signature hereto, having all necessary authority to act for the
Custodian in making the certification herein contained.

     (b) The Collateral described below represents all Collateral contained in
the Restricted Custodial Account:

     [Investments to be described here by Issuer, Par Amount, Coupon and
Maturity; other Collateral to be described by dollar amount and type]

     (c) The representations and warranties of the Custodian set forth in
Article VII of the Agreement are true and correct on and as of the date hereof
with respect to all Collateral, with the same effect as though such
representations and warranties had been made on and as of the date hereof.

     (d) Except to the extent waived in writing by the Agent, the Custodian has
performed and complied with all agreements and conditions in the Agreement
required to be performed or complied with by the Custodian on or before the date
hereof.

                                      A-1
<PAGE>
 
     In accordance with the instructions of the Company and the Agent, the
Custodian agrees to transfer all Collateral immediately after its execution of
this Certificate to account number __________ at [the successor custodian].

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument is executed as of ____________________,
________.

                                             BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST AND 
                                             SAVINGS ASSOCIATION
                         
                         
                                             By:______________________________
                         
                                                Name: ________________________
                         
                                                Title: _______________________

                                      A-2
<PAGE>
 
                                   EXHIBIT K

          [FORM OF] NOTICE OF ELECTION OF PROJECTED COLLATERAL VALUE
          ----------------------------------------------------------


                                                         Date: ___________, ____



To:  Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, as Agent for the
Banks parties to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 31, 1995 (as extended,
renewed, amended or restated from time to time, the "Credit Agreement") among
                                                     ----------------        
McKesson Corporation, Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc., certain
Banks which are signatories thereto, Chemical Bank, as Co-Agent, Bank of America
Canada, as Canadian Administrative Agent, and Bank of America National Trust and
Savings Association, as Agent

Ladies and Gentlemen:

     The undersigned, McKesson Corporation, refers to the Credit Agreement, the
terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined, and hereby gives you
notice that the Projected Market Value for the Collateral Period commencing
____________________ and ending _______________ is projected to be not less than
$[0][______________].


                                                    MCKESSON CORPORATION
                                
                                                    By:________________
                                
                                                    Title:_____________


cc:  Custodian under the Custodial Agreement

                                      K-1
<PAGE>
 
                                   EXHIBIT L
                              [FORM] OF GUARANTY


                                   GUARANTY


          This GUARANTY is entered into as of March 31, 1995 by MCKESSON
CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation ("GUARANTOR"), in favor of and for the
benefit of BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION, as agent for
and representative of (in such capacity herein called "AGENT") the financial
institutions ("BANKS") party to the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined).

                                   RECITALS

          A.  Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc., an Ontario
corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Guarantor  ("MEDIS"), has entered
into that certain Credit Agreement dated as of March 31, 1995 with Guarantor,
the Banks, Chemical Bank, as Co-Agent, Bank of America Canada, as Canadian
Administrative Agent, and Agent (said Credit Agreement, as it may hereafter be
amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, being the "CREDIT
AGREEMENT"; capitalized terms defined therein and not otherwise defined herein
being used herein as therein defined).

          B.  Credit extensions, including Loans and advances in respect of the
Bankers' Acceptance Facility, may be made to Medis under the Credit Agreement,
Medis is an indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company and the Guarantied
Obligations (as hereinafter defined) are being incurred for and will inure to
the benefit of Guarantor (which benefits are hereby acknowledged).

          C.  It is a condition precedent to the making of the initial
extensions of credit under the Credit Agreement that Medis's obligations
thereunder be guarantied by Guarantor.

          D.  Guarantor is willing irrevocably and unconditionally to guaranty
such obligations of Medis.

          NOW, THEREFORE, based upon the foregoing and other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and
in order to induce Banks, the Co-Agent and Agents to enter into the Credit
Agreement and to make the Loans and other extensions of credit thereunder,
Guarantor hereby agrees as follows:

                                      L-1
<PAGE>
 
SECTION 1.  DEFINITIONS

     1.1  CERTAIN DEFINED TERMS.  As used in this Guaranty, the following terms
          ---------------------                                                
shall have the following meanings unless the context otherwise requires:

          "GUARANTIED OBLIGATIONS" has the meaning assigned to that term in
      subsection 2.1.

          "GUARANTY" means this Guaranty dated as of March 31, 1995, as may be
      amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.

          "PAYMENT IN FULL", "PAID IN FULL" or any similar term means payment in
      full of the Guarantied Obligations including, without limitation, all
      principal, interest, costs, fees and expenses (including, without
      limitation, legal fees and expenses) of Banks, Co-Agent and Agents as
      required under the Loan Documents.

     1.2  INTERPRETATION.
          -------------- 

          (a)  References to "Sections" and "subsections" shall be to Sections
      and subsections, respectively, of this Guaranty unless otherwise
      specifically provided.

          (b)  In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms,
      conditions and provisions of this Guaranty and the terms, conditions and
      provisions of the Credit Agreement, the terms, conditions and provisions
      of this Guaranty shall prevail.


SECTION 2.  THE GUARANTY

     2.1  GUARANTY OF THE GUARANTIED OBLIGATIONS.  Guarantor hereby irrevocably
          --------------------------------------                               
and unconditionally guaranties, as primary obligor and not merely as surety, the
due and punctual payment in full of all Guarantied Obligations when the same
shall become due, whether at stated maturity, by required prepayment,
declaration, acceleration, demand or otherwise (including amounts that would
become due but for the operation of the automatic stay under Section 362(a) of
the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. (S) 362(a)).  The term "GUARANTIED OBLIGATIONS"
is used herein in its most comprehensive sense and includes:

          (a)  any and all Obligations of Medis now or hereafter made, incurred
      or created, whether absolute or contingent, liquidated or unliquidated,
      whether due or not due, and however arising under or in connection with
      the Credit Agreement, the Notes and Drafts issued by Medis and the other
      Loan Documents, including those arising under successive borrowing
      transactions under the Credit Agreement which shall either continue the
      Obligations of 

                                      L-2
<PAGE>
 
      Medis or from time to time renew them after they have been satisfied; and

          (b) those expenses set forth in Section 2.8 hereof.

     2.2  LIABILITY OF GUARANTOR ABSOLUTE.  Guarantor agrees that its
          -------------------------------                            
obligations hereunder are irrevocable, absolute, independent and unconditional
and shall not be affected by any circumstance which constitutes a legal or
equitable discharge of a guarantor or surety other than indefeasible payment in
full of the Guarantied Obligations.  In furtherance of the foregoing and without
limiting the generality thereof, Guarantor agrees as follows:

          (a) This Guaranty is a guaranty of payment when due and not of
      collectibility.

          (b) Agent may enforce this Guaranty upon the occurrence of an Event
      of Default under the Credit Agreement notwithstanding the existence of any
      dispute between Banks and any Borrower with respect to the existence of
      such Event of Default.

          (c) The obligations of Guarantor hereunder are independent of the
      obligations of Medis under the Loan Documents and the obligations of any
      other guarantor of the obligations of Medis under the Loan Documents, and
      a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against
      Guarantor whether or not any action is brought against Medis or any of
      such other guarantors and whether or not Medis is joined in any such
      action or actions.

          (d) Guarantor's payment of a portion, but not all, of the Guarantied
      Obligations shall in no way limit, affect, modify or abridge Guarantor's
      liability for any portion of the Guarantied Obligations which has not been
      paid.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if Agent is
      awarded a judgment in any suit brought to enforce Guarantor's covenant to
      pay a portion of the Guarantied Obligations, such judgment shall not be
      deemed to release Guarantor from its covenant to pay the portion of the
      Guarantied Obligations that is not the subject of such suit.

          (e) Any Agent or any Bank, upon such terms as it deems appropriate,
      without notice or demand and without affecting the validity or
      enforceability of this Guaranty or giving rise to any reduction,
      limitation, impairment, discharge or termination of Guarantor's liability
      hereunder, from time to time may (i) renew, extend, accelerate, increase
      the rate of interest on, or otherwise change the time, place, manner or
      terms of payment of the Guarantied Obligations, (ii) settle, compromise,
      release or discharge, or accept or refuse any offer of performance with
      respect to, or substitutions for, the Guarantied 

                                      L-3
<PAGE>
 
      Obligations or any agreement relating thereto and/or subordinate the
      payment of the same to the payment of any other obligations; (iii) request
      and accept other guaranties of the Guarantied Obligations and take and
      hold security for the payment of this Guaranty or the Guarantied
      Obligations; (iv) release, surrender, exchange, substitute, compromise,
      settle, rescind, waive, alter, subordinate or modify, with or without
      consideration, any security for payment of the Guarantied Obligations, any
      other guaranties of the Guarantied Obligations, or any other obligation of
      any Person with respect to the Guarantied Obligations; (v) enforce and
      apply any security now or hereafter held by or for the benefit of Agent or
      any Bank in respect of this Guaranty or the Guarantied Obligations and
      direct the order or manner of sale thereof, or exercise any other right or
      remedy that Agents or Banks, or any of them, may have against any such
      security, as Agent in its discretion may determine consistent with the
      Credit Agreement and any applicable security agreement, including
      foreclosure on any such security pursuant to one or more judicial or
      nonjudicial sales, whether or not every aspect of any such sale is
      commercially reasonable, and even though such action operates to impair or
      extinguish any right of reimbursement or subrogation or other right or
      remedy of Guarantor against Medis or any security for the Guarantied
      Obligations; and (vi) exercise any other rights available to it under the
      Loan Documents. This Section 2.2(e) shall not modify Section 10.01 of the
      Credit Agreement.

          (f) This Guaranty and the obligations of Guarantor hereunder shall be
      valid and enforceable and shall not be subject to any reduction,
      limitation, impairment, discharge or termination for any reason (other
      than indefeasible payment in full of the Guarantied Obligations),
      including without limitation the occurrence of any of the following,
      whether or not Guarantor shall have had notice or knowledge of any of
      them:  (i) any failure or omission to assert or enforce or agreement or
      election not to assert or enforce, or the stay or enjoining, by order of
      court, by operation of law or otherwise, of the exercise or enforcement
      of, any claim or demand or any right, power or remedy (whether arising
      under the Loan Documents, at law, in equity or otherwise) with respect to
      the Guarantied Obligations or any agreement relating thereto, or with
      respect to any other guaranty of or security for the payment of the
      Guarantied Obligations; (ii) any rescission, waiver, amendment or
      modification of, or any consent to departure from, any of the terms or
      provisions (including without limitation provisions relating to events of
      default) of the Credit Agreement, any of the other Loan Documents or any
      agreement or instrument executed pursuant thereto, or of any other
      guaranty or security for the Guarantied Obligations, in each case whether
      or not in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement or such Loan
      Document or 

                                      L-4
<PAGE>
 
      any agreement relating to such other guaranty or security; (iii) the
      Guarantied Obligations, or any agreement relating thereto, at any time
      being found to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect; (iv)
      the application of payments received from any source (other than payments
      received pursuant to the other Loan Documents or from the proceeds of any
      security for the Guarantied Obligations, except to the extent such
      security also serves as collateral for indebtedness other than the
      Guarantied Obligations) to the payment of indebtedness other than the
      Guarantied Obligations, even though Agents or Banks, or any of them, might
      have elected to apply such payment to any part or all of the Guarantied
      Obligations; (v) any Bank's or Agent's consent to the change,
      reorganization or termination of the corporate structure or existence of
      Company or any of its Subsidiaries and to any corresponding restructuring
      of the Guarantied Obligations; (vi) any failure to perfect or continue
      perfection of a security interest in any collateral which secures any of
      the Guarantied Obligations; (vii) any defenses, set-offs or counterclaims
      which Medis may allege or assert against any Agent or any Bank in respect
      of the Guarantied Obligations, including but not limited to failure of
      consideration, breach of warranty, payment, statute of frauds, statute of
      limitations, accord and satisfaction and usury; and (viii) any other act
      or thing or omission, or delay to do any other act or thing, which may or
      might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of Guarantor as an
      obligor in respect of the Guarantied Obligations.

     2.3  WAIVERS BY GUARANTOR.  Guarantor hereby waives, for the benefit of
          --------------------                                              
Banks and Agents:

          (a) any right to require any Agent or any Bank, as a condition of
      payment or performance by Guarantor, to (i) proceed against Medis, any
      other guarantor of the Guarantied Obligations or any other Person, (ii)
      proceed against or exhaust any security held from Medis, any other
      guarantor of the Guarantied Obligations or any other Person, (iii) proceed
      against or have resort to any balance of any deposit account or credit on
      the books of any Agent or any Bank in favor of Medis or any other Person,
      or (iv) pursue any other remedy in the power of any Agent or any Bank
      whatsoever;

          (b) any defense arising by reason of the incapacity, lack of
      authority or any disability or other defense of Medis including, without
      limitation, any defense based on or arising out of the lack of validity or
      the unenforceability of the Guarantied Obligations or any agreement or
      instrument relating thereto or by reason of the cessation of the liability
      of Medis from any cause other than indefeasible payment in full of the
      Guarantied Obligations;

                                      L-5
<PAGE>
 
          (c) any defense based upon any statute or rule of law which provides
      that the obligation of a surety must be neither larger in amount nor in
      other respects more burdensome than that of the principal;

          (d) any defense based upon any Agent's or any Bank's errors or
      omissions in the administration of the Guarantied Obligations, except
      behavior which amounts to bad faith;

          (e) (i) any principles or provisions of law, statutory or otherwise,
      which are or might be in conflict with the terms of this Guaranty and any
      legal or equitable discharge of Guarantor's obligations hereunder, (ii)
      the benefit of any statute of limitations affecting Guarantor's liability
      hereunder or the enforcement hereof, (iii) any rights to set-offs,
      recoupments and counterclaims, and (iv) promptness, diligence and any
      requirement that any Agent or any Bank protect, secure, perfect or insure
      any security interest or lien or any property subject thereto;

          (f) notices, demands, presentments, protests, notices of protest,
      notices of dishonor and notices of any action or inaction, including
      acceptance of this Guaranty, notices of default under the Credit Agreement
      or any agreement or instrument related thereto, notices of any renewal,
      extension or modification of the Guarantied Obligations or any agreement
      related thereto, notices of any extension of credit to Medis and notices
      of any of the matters referred to in subsection 2.2 and any right to
      consent to any thereof; and

          (g) any defenses or benefits that may be derived from or afforded by
      law which limit the liability of or exonerate guarantors or sureties, or
      which may conflict with the terms of this Guaranty, including without
      limitation the provisions of California Civil Code Sections 2809, 2810,
      2819, 2839, 2845, 2846, 2850, 2899 and 3433.

     2.4  PAYMENT BY GUARANTOR; APPLICATION OF PAYMENTS.  Guarantor hereby
          ---------------------------------------------                   
agrees, in furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right
which Agent or any other Person may have at law or in equity against Guarantor
by virtue hereof, that upon the failure of Medis to pay any of the Guarantied
Obligations when and as the same shall become due, whether at stated maturity,
by required prepayment, declaration, acceleration, demand or otherwise
(including amounts that would become due but for the operation of the automatic
stay under Section 362(a) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. (S) 362(a)),
Guarantor will upon demand pay, or cause to be paid, in cash, to Agent for the
ratable benefit of Banks holding the Guarantied Obligations, an amount equal to
the sum of the unpaid principal amount of all Guarantied Obligations then due as
aforesaid, accrued and unpaid interest on such Guarantied Obligations
(including, without limitation, interest which, but for the 

                                      L-6
<PAGE>
 
filing of a petition in bankruptcy with respect to Medis, would have accrued on
such Guarantied Obligations, whether or not a claim is allowed against Medis for
such interest in any such bankruptcy proceeding) and all other Guarantied
Obligations then owed to Agent and/or Banks as aforesaid. All such payments
shall be applied promptly from time to time by Agent:

          First, to the payment of the costs and expenses of any collection or
          -----                                                               
     other realization under this Guaranty, including reasonable compensation
     to Agent and its agents and counsel, and all expenses, liabilities and
     advances made or incurred by Agent in connection therewith;

          Second, to the payment of all other Guarantied Obligations to each
          ------                                                            
     Bank holding Guarantied Obligations its applicable share as provided in
     the Credit Agreement; and

          Third, after payment in full of all Guarantied Obligations, to the
          -----                                                             
     payment to Guarantor, or its successors or assigns, or to whosoever may be
     lawfully entitled to receive the same or as a court of competent
     jurisdiction may direct, of any surplus then remaining from such payments.

    2.5  GUARANTOR'S RIGHTS OF SUBROGATION, CONTRIBUTION, ETC.  Until the
         ----------------------------------------------------            
Guarantied Obligations shall have been indefeasibly paid in full and the Tranche
B Commitments shall have terminated, Guarantor shall withhold exercise of (a)
any claim, right or remedy, direct or indirect, that Guarantor now has or may
hereafter have against Medis or any of its assets in connection with this
Guaranty or the performance by Guarantor of its obligations hereunder, in each
case whether such claim, right or remedy arises in equity, under contract, by
statute (including without limitation under California Civil Code Section 2847,
2848 or 2849), under common law or otherwise and including without limitation
(i) any right of subrogation, reimbursement or indemnification that Guarantor
now has or may hereafter have against Medis, (ii) any right to enforce, or to
participate in, any claim, right or remedy that any Agent or any Bank now has or
may hereafter have against Medis, and (iii) any benefit of, and any right to
participate in, any collateral or security now or hereafter held by any Agent or
any Bank, and (b) any right of contribution Guarantor may have against any other
guarantor of the Guarantied Obligations (including without limitation any such
right of contribution under California Civil Code Section 2848).  Guarantor
further agrees that, to the extent the agreement to withhold the exercise of its
rights of subrogation, reimbursement, indemnification and contribution as set
forth herein is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be void or
voidable for any reason, any rights of subrogation, reimbursement or
indemnification Guarantor may have against Medis or against any collateral or
security, and any rights of contribution Guarantor may have against any such
other guarantor, shall be junior and subordinate to any rights any 

                                      L-7
<PAGE>
 
Agent or any Bank may have against Medis, to all right, title and interest any
Agent or any Bank may have in any such collateral or security, and to any right
any Agent or any Bank may have against such other guarantor. Each Agent, on
behalf of Banks, may use, sell or dispose of any item of collateral or security
as it sees fit without regard to any subrogation rights Guarantor may have, and
upon any such disposition or sale any rights of subrogation against such
collateral Guarantor may have shall terminate. If any amount shall be paid to
Guarantor on account of any such subrogation, reimbursement or indemnification
rights at any time when all Guarantied Obligations shall not have been paid in
full, such amount shall be held in trust for Agent on behalf of Banks and shall
forthwith be paid over to Agent for the benefit of Banks to be credited and
applied against the Guarantied Obligations, whether matured or unmatured, in
accordance with the terms hereof.

     2.6  SUBORDINATION OF OTHER OBLIGATIONS.  Any indebtedness of Medis now or
          ----------------------------------                                   
hereafter held by Guarantor is hereby subordinated in right of payment to the
Guarantied Obligations, and any such indebtedness of Medis to Guarantor
collected or received by Guarantor after an Event of Default has occurred and is
continuing shall be held in trust for Agent on behalf of Banks and shall
forthwith be paid over to Agent for the benefit of Banks to be credited and
applied against the Guarantied Obligations but without affecting, impairing or
limiting in any manner the liability of Guarantor under any other provision of
this Guaranty.

     2.7  REAL PROPERTY SECURITY.  Guarantor agrees that, if all or a portion of
          ----------------------                                                
the Guarantied Obligations or any other guaranty of all or a portion of the
Guarantied Obligations are at any time secured by a deed of trust or mortgage
covering interests in real property, Agent or its designee, in its sole
discretion, without notice or demand and without affecting the liability of
Guarantor, may foreclose, pursuant to the terms of the Loan Documents or
otherwise, on any such deed of trust or mortgage and the property described
therein by nonjudicial or other sale.  Without limiting any of the waivers
contained elsewhere herein, Guarantor hereby waives any defense to liability
arising by reason of the exercise by Banks or Agent, or any of them, of any
right or remedy contained in any such deed of trust or mortgage or any of the
other Loan Documents.  Guarantor waives all rights and defenses arising out of
an election of remedies by Bank or the Agent, even though the election of
remedies, such as a nonjudicial foreclosure with respect to security for a
Guaranteed Obligation, has destroyed the Guarantor's rights of subrogation and
reimbursement against Medis by the operation of Section 580d of the California
Code of Civil Procedure or otherwise.

                                      L-8
<PAGE>
 
     2.8  EXPENSES.  Guarantor agrees to pay, or cause to be paid, on demand,
          --------                                                           
and to save Agent and Banks harmless against liability for, any and all
reasonable costs and expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel and
allocated costs of internal counsel) incurred or expended by Agent or any Bank
in connection with the enforcement of or preservation of any rights under this
Guaranty.

     2.9  CONTINUING GUARANTY; TERMINATION OF GUARANTY.  This Guaranty is a
          --------------------------------------------                     
continuing guaranty and shall remain in effect until all of the Guarantied
Obligations shall have been indefeasibly paid in full and the Tranche B
Commitments shall have terminated.  Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives any
right (including without limitation any such right arising under California
Civil Code Section 2815) to revoke this Guaranty as to future transactions
giving rise to any Guarantied Obligations.

     2.10 AUTHORITY OF GUARANTOR OR MEDIS.  It is not necessary for any Bank or
          -------------------------------                                      
any Agent to inquire into the capacity or powers of Medis or the officers,
directors or any agents acting or purporting to act on behalf of any of them.

     2.11 FINANCIAL CONDITION OF MEDIS.  Any extensions of credit may be granted
          ----------------------------                                          
to Medis or continued from time to time without notice to or authorization from
Guarantor regardless of the financial or other condition of Medis at the time of
any such grant or continuation.  No Bank or Agent shall have any obligation to
disclose or discuss with Guarantor their assessment, or Guarantor's assessment,
of the financial condition of Medis.  Guarantor has adequate means to obtain
information from Medis on a continuing basis concerning the financial condition
of Medis and its ability to perform its obligations under the Loan Documents,
and Guarantor assumes the responsibility for being and keeping informed of the
financial condition of Medis and of all circumstances bearing upon the risk of
nonpayment of the Guarantied Obligations.  Guarantor hereby waives and
relinquishes any duty on the part of any Agent or any Bank to disclose any
matter, fact or thing relating to the business, operations or conditions of
Medis now known or hereafter known by any Agent or any Bank.

     2.12 RIGHTS CUMULATIVE.  The rights, powers and remedies given to Banks and
          -----------------                                                     
Agents by this Guaranty are cumulative and shall be in addition to and
independent of all rights, powers and remedies given to any Bank and any Agent
by virtue of any statute or rule of law or in any of the other Loan Documents or
any agreement between Guarantor and any Bank and/or any Agent or between Medis
and any Bank and/or any Agent.  Any forbearance or failure to exercise, and any
delay by any Bank or any Agent in exercising, any right, power or remedy
hereunder shall not impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be
a waiver thereof, nor shall it preclude the further exercise of any such right,
power or remedy.

                                      L-9
<PAGE>
 
     2.13 BANKRUPTCY; POST-PETITION INTEREST; REINSTATEMENT OF GUARANTY.  (a)
          -------------------------------------------------------------       
So long as any Guarantied Obligations remain outstanding, Guarantor shall not,
without the prior written consent of Agent in accordance with the terms of the
Credit Agreement, commence or join with any other Person in commencing any
bankruptcy, reorganization or insolvency proceedings of or against Medis.  The
obligations of Guarantor under this Guaranty shall not be reduced, limited,
impaired, discharged, deferred, suspended or terminated by any proceeding,
voluntary or involuntary, involving the bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership,
reorganization, liquidation or arrangement of Medis or by any defense which
Medis may have by reason of the order, decree or decision of any court or
administrative body resulting from any such proceeding.

          (b)  Guarantor acknowledges and agrees that any interest on any
portion of the Guarantied Obligations which accrues after the commencement of
any proceeding referred to in clause (a) above (or, if interest on any portion
of the Guarantied Obligations ceases to accrue by operation of law by reason of
the commencement of said proceeding, such interest as would have accrued on such
portion of the Guarantied Obligations if said proceedings had not been
commenced) shall be included in the Guarantied Obligations because it is the
intention of Guarantor and Agent that the Guarantied Obligations which are
guarantied by Guarantor pursuant to this Guaranty should be determined without
regard to any rule of law or order which may relieve Medis of any portion of
such Guarantied Obligations.  Guarantor will permit any trustee in bankruptcy,
receiver, debtor in possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar
person to pay Agent, or allow the claim of Agent in respect of, any such
interest accruing after the date on which such proceeding is commenced.

          (c)  In the event that all or any portion of the Guarantied
Obligations are paid by Medis, the obligations of Guarantor hereunder shall
continue and remain in full force and effect or be reinstated, as the case may
be, in the event that all or any part of such payment(s) are rescinded or
recovered directly or indirectly from any Agent or any Bank as a preference,
fraudulent transfer or otherwise, and any such payments which are so rescinded
or recovered shall constitute Guarantied Obligations for all purposes under this
Guaranty.


SECTION 3.  MISCELLANEOUS

     3.1  SURVIVAL OF WARRANTIES.  All agreements, representations and
          ----------------------                                      
warranties made herein shall survive the execution and delivery of this Guaranty
and the other Loan Documents and any increase in the Tranche B Commitments under
the Credit Agreement.



                                     L-10

<PAGE>
 
     3.2  NOTICES.  Any communications between Agent and Guarantor and any
          -------                                                         
notices or requests provided herein to be given may be given by mailing the
same, postage prepaid, or by telex, facsimile transmission or cable to each such
party at its address set forth in the Credit Agreement, on the signature pages
hereof or to such other addresses as each such party may in writing hereafter
indicate.  Any notice, request or demand to or upon any Agent or any Bank or
Guarantor shall not be effective until received.

     3.3  SEVERABILITY.  In case any provision in or obligation under this
          ------------                                                    
Guaranty shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, the
validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions or
obligations, or of such provision or obligation in any other jurisdiction, shall
not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.

     3.4  AMENDMENTS AND WAIVERS.  No amendment, modification, termination or
          ----------------------                                             
waiver of any provision of this Guaranty, or consent to any departure by
Guarantor therefrom, shall in any event be effective without the written
concurrence of Agent and Banks as provided under Section 10.01 of the Credit
Agreement.  Any waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific
instance and for the specific purpose for which it was given.

     3.5  HEADINGS.  Section and subsection headings in this Guaranty are
          --------                                                       
included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a
part of this Guaranty for any other purpose or be given any substantive effect.

     3.6  SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.  This Guaranty is a continuing guaranty and
          ----------------------                                             
shall be binding upon Guarantor and its successors and assigns.  This Guaranty
shall inure to the benefit of Banks, Agents and their respective successors and
assigns.  Guarantor shall not assign this Guaranty or any of the rights or
obligations of Guarantor hereunder without the prior written consent of all
Banks.  Any Bank may, without notice or consent, in connection with any
assignment of its interests in the Commitments, Loans or Bankers' Acceptance
Facility pursuant to the Credit Agreement assign its interest in this Guaranty
in whole or in part.  The terms and provisions of this Guaranty shall inure to
the benefit of any transferee or assignee of any Guarantied Obligation, and in
the event of such transfer or assignment the rights and privileges herein
conferred upon Banks and Agents shall automatically extend to and be vested in
such transferee or assignee, all subject to the terms and conditions hereof.

     3.7  GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION.  (A)  THIS GUARANTY SHALL BE GOVERNED
          ------------------------------                                       
BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA WITHOUT
REFERENCE TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.

                                     L-11
<PAGE>
 
          (b) ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO THIS GUARANTY MAY
BE BROUGHT IN THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA OR OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA, AND BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS
GUARANTY, THE GUARANTOR CONSENTS FOR ITSELF AND IN RESPECT OF ITS PROPERTY, TO
THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THOSE COURTS.  EACH OF THE GUARANTOR, THE
AGENTS AND THE BANKS IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION, INCLUDING ANY OBJECTION
TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OR BASED ON THE GROUNDS OF FORUM NON CONVENIENS, WHICH IT
                                                  --------------------          
MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE BRINGING OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN SUCH
JURISDICTION IN RESPECT OF THIS GUARANTY OR ANY DOCUMENT RELATED HERETO.  THE
GUARANTOR, THE AGENTS AND THE BANKS EACH WAIVE PERSONAL SERVICE OF ANY SUMMONS,
COMPLAINT OR OTHER PROCESS, WHICH MAY BE MADE BY ANY OTHER MEANS PERMITTED BY
CALIFORNIA LAW.

     3.8  WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.  THE GUARANTOR, THE BANKS AND THE AGENTS EACH
          --------------------                                               
WAIVE THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO A TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION
BASED UPON OR ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS GUARANTY, IN ANY ACTION,
PROCEEDING OR OTHER LITIGATION OF ANY TYPE BROUGHT BY ANY OF THE PARTIES AGAINST
ANY OTHER PARTY, PARTICIPANT OR ASSIGNEE, BASED UPON OR ARISING OUT OF THIS
GUARANTY, WHETHER WITH RESPECT TO CONTRACT CLAIMS, TORT CLAIMS, OR OTHERWISE.
THE GUARANTOR, THE BANKS AND THE AGENTS EACH AGREE THAT ANY SUCH CLAIM OR CAUSE
OF ACTION SHALL BE TRIED BY A COURT TRIAL WITHOUT A JURY.  WITHOUT LIMITING THE
FOREGOING, THE PARTIES FURTHER AGREE THAT THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY
JURY IS WAIVED BY OPERATION OF THIS SECTION AS TO ANY ACTION, COUNTERCLAIM OR
OTHER PROCEEDING WHICH SEEKS, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, TO CHALLENGE THE VALIDITY OR
ENFORCEABILITY OF THIS GUARANTY OR PROVISION HEREOF.  THIS WAIVER SHALL APPLY TO
ANY SUBSEQUENT AMENDMENTS, RENEWALS, SUPPLEMENTS OR MODIFICATIONS TO THIS
GUARANTY.  Guarantor and, by its acceptance of the benefits hereof, Agent each
(i) acknowledges that this waiver is a material inducement for Guarantor and
Agents and Banks to enter into a business relationship, that Guarantor and Agent
have already relied on this waiver in entering into this Guaranty or accepting
the benefits thereof, as the case may be, and that each will continue to rely on
this waiver in their related future dealings and (ii) further warrants and
represents that each has reviewed this waiver with its legal counsel, and that
each knowingly and voluntarily waives its jury trial rights following
consultation with legal counsel.  THIS WAIVER IS IRREVOCABLE, MEANING THAT IT
MAY NOT BE MODIFIED ORALLY, AND THIS WAIVER SHALL APPLY TO ANY SUBSEQUENT
AMENDMENTS, RENEWALS, SUPPLEMENTS OR MODIFICATIONS TO THIS GUARANTY.  In the
event of litigation, this Guaranty may be filed as a written consent to a trial
by the court.

     3.9  NO OTHER WRITING.  This writing is intended by Guarantor and Agent as
          ----------------                                                     
the final expression of this Guaranty and is also intended as a complete and
exclusive statement of the terms of their agreement with respect to the matters
covered hereby.  No course of dealing, course of performance or trade

                                     L-12
<PAGE>
 
usage, and no parol evidence of any nature, shall be used to supplement or
modify any terms of this Guaranty. There are no conditions to the full
effectiveness of this Guaranty.

     3.10 FURTHER ASSURANCES.  At any time or from time to time, upon the
          ------------------                                             
request of Agent or Majority Banks, Guarantor shall execute and deliver such
further documents and do such other acts and things as Agent or Majority Banks
may reasonably request in order to effect fully the purposes of this Guaranty.


                  [Remainder of page intentionally left blank]

                                     L-13
<PAGE>
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Guarantor has caused this Guaranty to be duly
executed and delivered by its officer thereunto duly authorized as of the date
first written above.

                                  MCKESSON CORPORATION



                                  By _____________________________
 
                                  Title __________________________



Acknowledged by:

BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
  AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION, AS AGENT


By __________________________

Title _______________________

                                     L-14
<PAGE>
 
                                   EXHIBIT M

                     [FORM OF INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S LETTER]


April __, 1995


Bank of America National Trust
     and Savings Association,
     as Agent
Agency Management Services #5596
1455 Market Street, 12th Floor
San Francisco, California 94103

Ladies and Gentlemen:

We have received your letter (copy attached) dated _____________, acknowledged
and agreed to by McKesson Corporation, which requests that we confirm that Bank
of America National Trust and Savings Association ("Agent") on its own behalf
and as Agent for certain other financial institutions (collectively the "Banks")
may use Deloitte's Audit Report dated _____________ on the financial statements
of Company and its subsidiaries, as of March 31, 1994 ("Current Audit Report"),
in connection with Agent's and the Banks' decision whether to extent to the
Company and to Medis a $250,000,000 revolving credit facility and, in addition,
may use subsequent audit reports ("Subsequent Audit Reports") prepared by
Deloitte or the annual financial statements delivered to the Agent and the Banks
pursuant to the Credit Agreement (as amended, modified or supplemented, the
"Credit Agreement") dated as of March 31, 1995 among McKesson Corporation, Medis
Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc., the Agent, Chemical Bank, as Co-Agent,
Bank of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative Agent and the Banks.

The consolidated financial statements of McKesson Corporation (the "Company")
are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Management is also
responsible for establishing and maintaining an internal control structure, the
objective of which is to provide management with reasonable, but not absolute,
assurance that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or
disposition, and that transactions are executed in accordance with management's
authorization and recorded properly to permit the preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

We were engaged by the Company to audit the Company's consolidated financial
statements for the year ended March 31, 1994, and issued our report thereon
dated May 16, 1994.  We have been engaged to audit the Company's consolidated
financial statements for the year ended March 31, 1995, in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards, the objective of which is to form an
opinion as to whether the financial statements

                                      M-1
<PAGE>
 
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position, results of
operations and cash flows in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. Generally accepted auditing standards require that the auditor plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. Because an audit incorporates the
concept of selective testing of data, which is judgmental both as to the number
of transactions audited and the selection of accounts to be tested, an audit is
subject to the inherent risks that material errors or irregularities which may
exist will not be detected. Further, an audit does not address the possibility
that material errors or irregularities may occur in the future. We have not been
engaged to perform an audit of the separate financial statements of Medis, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, as of any date or for any period.

The annual independent audit of the financial statements of the Company cannot
substitute for a lender's own due diligence investigation of the Company, nor is
it intended or designed to do so.  Neither is it intended to substitute for a
lender's prudent credit judgment regarding matters such as the value of
collateral, the reasonableness and scope of covenants or waivers of any covenant
violations, modification of terms of the credit agreement, the adequacy of the
Company's capitalization, the reasonableness and sufficiency of the Company's
business plan, or the ability of the Company to repay its debts as they mature.
Also, an audit cannot be expected to disclose the materiality of unknown or
unquantifiable contingent liabilities; material adverse changes in the financial
or other condition of the Company or of any collateral subsequent to the date of
the auditors' report; or matters of similar importance which are outside the
scope of the audit (or only marginally within its scope and not its primary
purpose) or outside the scope of the auditors' report.  In conducting our audit
and reporting the results thereof, materiality is evaluated and determined in
the context of the financial statements taken as a whole.  Additionally, no
review will be undertaken to determine whether the scope of our audit is
sufficient, in the Bank's view, to meet its needs, or the needs of any other
third party.

We have no responsibility for lending decisions of Bank of America National
Trust and Savings Association (the "Bank") or other lenders, nor any
responsibility to advise or consult with the Bank regarding the Bank's possible
use of the Company's consolidated financial statements of our reports thereon,
and we consider any use of, or reliance upon, the Company's consolidated
financial statements or our reports thereon by the Bank to be entirely a matter
of its responsibility and judgment.

Ordinarily, a credit agreement provides for the lender to receive various
documents directly from the borrower during the course of any year, including,
but not limited to, monthly financial statements, as well as certifications and
other notices as specified in the credit agreement.  These documents

                                      M-2
<PAGE>
 
and other communications typically provide a lender information other than that
which is contained in borrower's annual financial statements or an auditors'
report thereon, which would be relevant to a lender's credit determination
regarding the borrower.

Yours truly,



cc:  McKesson Corporation

                                      M-3
<PAGE>
 
                              [Agent Letterhead]



                                    [Date]



Deloitte & Touche
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
Attention: ______________

Ladies and Gentlemen:

    This letter is being sent to Deloitte & Touche ("Deloitte") with respect to
a credit accommodation that Bank of America National Trust and Savings
Association ("Agent") on its own behalf and as agent for certain other financial
institutions (collectively, the "Banks") may grant to McKesson Corporation, a
Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Medis Health and Pharmaceutical
Services Inc. ("Medis").

    We wish to confirm that Agent and the Banks may use Deloitte's Audit Report
dated _________________ on the financial statements of Company and its
subsidiaries, as of March 31, 1994 ("Current Audit Report"), in connection with
Agent's and the Banks' decision whether to extend to the Company and to Medis a
$250,000,000 revolving credit facility ("Proposed Credit") and, in addition, may
use subsequent audit reports ("Subsequent Audit Reports") prepared by Deloitte
or the annual financial statements delivered to the Agent and the Banks pursuant
to the Credit Agreement (as amended, modified or supplemented, the "Credit
Agreement") dated as of March 31, 1995 among the Company, Medis, Banks, Chemical
Bank, as Co-Agent, Bank of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative Agent, and
Agent.

                                      M-4
<PAGE>
 
                                       BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST AND
                                       SAVINGS ASSOCIATION, as Agent


                                       By:______________________________________

                                       Its:_____________________________________


ACKNOWLEDGED:

McKESSON CORPORATION


By:____________________________

Its:___________________________

                                      M-5
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.26
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>CUSTODIAL AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                 EXHIBIT 10.26
                      CUSTODIAL AGREEMENT ACKNOWLEDGMENT
                      ----------------------------------


          This CUSTODIAL AGREEMENT ACKNOWLEDGMENT (this "Agreement") is entered
                                                         ---------             
into as of March 31, 1995 among McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation
(the "Company"), Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, a
      -------                                                             
national banking association (the "Custodian") in its capacity as Custodian
                                   ---------                               
under the Custodial Agreement (as hereinafter defined), and Bank of America
National Trust and Savings Association, as agent (in such capacity, the "Agent")
                                                                         -----  
for the several financial institutions (the "Banks") from time to time party to
                                             -----                             
the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined).

                                   RECITALS
                                   --------

          A.   The Company and the Custodian have entered into a Custody
Agreement dated as of November 21, 1994 (the "Custodial Agreement") pursuant to
which, among other things, the Custodian has established the Restricted
Custodial Account (as hereinafter defined) on behalf of the Company to hold and
maintain certain securities, distributions with respect thereto and other
property.

          B.   The Agent and the Banks have entered into a Credit Agreement
dated as of March 31, 1995 (the "Credit Agreement") with the Company, Medis
                                 ----------------       
Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc. ("Medis"), Chemical Bank, as Co-Agent,
and Bank of America Canada, as Canadian Administrative Agent, pursuant to which
the Banks have made certain commitments, subject to the terms and conditions set
forth in the Credit Agreement, to extend certain credit facilities to the
Company and Medis.

          C.   The Company has entered into a Guaranty dated as of March 31,
1995 (the "Guaranty") pursuant to which the Company has guarantied the loans and
other obligations of Medis under the Credit Agreement and other loan documents.

          D.   Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement and the Guaranty,
the Company and the Agent have entered into a Pledge and Security Agreement
dated as of March 31, 1995 (the "Pledge Agreement") pursuant to which the
                                 ----------------  
Company has granted a security interest in favor of the Agent in the Collateral
(as defined in the Pledge Agreement), including, without limitation, the
Restricted Custodial Account and the securities and other property therein.

          E.   The Agent has required that the Company and the Custodian enter
into this Agreement to, among other things, set forth the terms on which the
Custodian shall operate the Restricted Custodial Account and hold the
Collateral.

                                       1
<PAGE>
 
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements, provisions
and covenants contained herein, the parties agree as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I

                          DEFINITIONS AND REFERENCES
                          --------------------------

     1.01  General Definitions.  All capitalized terms used in this Agreement
           -------------------                                               
(including in the recitals hereof) and not otherwise defined herein shall have
the meanings assigned to them in the Pledge Agreement.  As used in this
Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

     "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on
      ------------                                                             
which commercial banks in New York City or San Francisco are authorized or
required by law to close.

     "CFR" means the United States Code of Federal Regulations, as from time to
      ---                                                                      
time amended.

     "Investments" means those investments, if any, made by the Custodian upon
      -----------                                                             
direction from the Company or the Agent, as the case may be, with amounts on
deposit in the Restricted Custodial Account pursuant to Article III.

     "Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, business trust,
      ------                                                                
joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, or governmental
authority.

     "U.S. Government Securities" means securities issued or directly and
      --------------------------                                         
unconditionally guaranteed as to interest and principal by the United States
Government or its agencies identified specifically by type on Schedule A, as
                                                              ----------    
supplemented from time to time in accordance with subsection 3.01(f).

     1.02  Other Interpretive Provisions.  (a) The meanings of defined terms are
           -----------------------------                                        
equally applicable to the singular and plural forms of the defined terms.

          (b) The words "hereof", "herein", "hereunder" and similar words refer
to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this
Agreement; and subsection, Section, Schedule and Exhibit references are to this
Agreement unless otherwise specified.

          (c)  (i)  The term "documents" includes any and all instruments,
documents, agreements, certificates, indentures, notices and other writings,
however evidenced.

              (ii)  The term "including" is not limiting and means "including
without limitation."

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
             (iii)  In the computation of periods of time from a specified date
to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including"; the words
"to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding", and the word "through" means "to
and including."

          (d)  Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, (i) references to
agreements (including this Agreement) and other contractual instruments shall be
deemed to include all subsequent amendments and other modifications thereto, but
only to the extent such amendments and other modifications are not prohibited by
the terms of this Agreement, and (ii) references to any statute or regulation
are to be construed as including all statutory and regulatory provisions
consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing or interpreting the statute or
regulation.

          (e)  The captions and headings of this Agreement are for convenience
of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.

          (f)  This Agreement is the result of negotiations among and have been
reviewed by counsel to the Agent, the Company and the Custodian and is the
product of all parties.  Accordingly, it shall not be construed against the
Banks or the Agent merely because of the Agent's or Banks' involvement in its
preparation.


                                  ARTICLE II

                   OPERATION OF RESTRICTED CUSTODIAL ACCOUNT
                   -----------------------------------------

     2.01  Restricted Custodial Account.  The Company hereby authorizes and
           ----------------------------                                    
directs the Custodian to maintain at its office at 1455 Market Street, San
Francisco, California 94103, as a restricted account in the name of the Company
but pledged to and under the dominion and control of the Agent as provided
herein, an investment account designated as Account No. 197427321 (Ref:
"McKesson Corporation") (the "Restricted Custodial Account").

     2.02  Operation of Restricted Custodial Account.  (a) The Restricted
           -----------------------------------------                     
Custodial Account shall be operated, and all Investments shall be purchased and
registered or held (as applicable), in accordance with the terms of the
Custodial Agreement except as specifically set forth in this Agreement.

          (b)  Anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the
Restricted Custodial Account shall be subject to such applicable laws, and such
applicable regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
and of any other appropriate banking or governmental authority, as may now or
hereafter be in effect.

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
          (c)  The Custodian shall send the Agent and the Company written
account statements with respect to the Restricted Custodial Account upon the
written request of the Agent.

          (d)  The obligations and liabilities of the Company and the Custodian
with respect to the Restricted Custodial Account shall be governed by the
Custodial Agreement, except as specifically provided otherwise in this
Agreement.


                                  ARTICLE III

                       PERMITTED INVESTMENTS OF AMOUNTS
                      IN THE RESTRICTED CUSTODIAL ACCOUNT
                      -----------------------------------

     3.01  Permitted Investments.  (a) Cash held by the Custodian in the
           ---------------------                                        
Restricted Custodial Account shall not be (i) invested or reinvested or (ii)
transferred from the Restricted Custodial Account, in either case except as
provided in this Article III.

          (b)  So long as the Custodian shall not have received written notice
from the Agent suspending the Company's right to direct the investment of funds
on deposit in the Restricted Custodial Account, the Custodian shall, in
accordance with the Company's instructions with respect to the purchase and sale
of Investments, given to the Custodian from time to time in accordance with the
Custodial Agreement, make such purchase or sale of Investments, in the
Custodian's name and as custodian under this Agreement and the Custodial
Agreement.  If the Custodian has received notice from the Agent suspending the
Company's right to direct such investments under this subsection 3.01(b), such
suspension of the Company's rights may be reversed by a subsequent written
notice by the Agent to the Custodian to that effect.

          (c)  Promptly upon the purchase of any Investment, the Custodian shall
take all steps that it customarily takes in the ordinary course of its business
to ensure that such Investment is transferred on its books to the Company,
subject to a first priority security interest in favor of the Agent, and to
ensure that such Investment is held in the Restricted Custodial Account.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Custodian shall promptly
identify in its records, by book entry or otherwise, that the Restricted
Custodial Account and any Investments therein belong to the Company, subject to
a first priority security interest in favor of the Agent.

          (d)  Anything contained herein or in the Custodial Agreement to the
contrary notwithstanding, the Custodian shall, if and as directed in writing by
the Agent, (i) transfer any or all of the Collateral constituting cash to an
account designated by the Agent or transfer any or all of the Collateral to an
account established in the Agent's name (whether at the Agent or

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
the Custodian or otherwise), (ii) otherwise deal with the Collateral as directed
by the Agent in writing; provided, that, as between the Agent and the Company,
the terms of the Pledge Agreement shall control such directions of the Agent.

          (e) Subject to Section 3.01(d), any interest, cash dividends or other
cash distributions received in respect of any Investments (other than proceeds
from the sale of an Investment) shall be promptly transferred in accordance with
the provisions of the Custodial Agreement or to an account designated by the
Company.  Any distribution of property other than cash in respect of any
Investment shall be held in the Restricted Custodial Account and the net
proceeds of any sale or payment of any Investments shall be held in the
Restricted Custodial Account pending investment subject to the Company's rights
under Section 3.06 of the Pledge Agreement.

          (f) The Company and the Agent may, from time to time, supplement
Schedule A by written instructions signed by both of them.  The Agent may
- ----------                                                               
condition its execution of such written instructions upon receiving such
opinions of counsel with respect to perfection of its security interest in
investments named in such supplement as it may require.

          (g) Custodian shall hold all Investments in U.S. Government
Securities directly or through a Federal Reserve Bank of the United States.

     3.02  Transfer of Collateral.  In the event that the Company delivers a
           ----------------------                                           
notice to release Designated Collateral pursuant to Section 3.05 of the Pledge
Agreement and the Custodian shall not have received a notice from the Agent
suspending the Company's right to release Collateral as provided in Section
3.05(b) of the Pledge Agreement by 9:00 a.m. (San Francisco time) on the date
specified for the release of the Designated Collateral in the Company's notice,
the Custodian shall be entitled to transfer Collateral designated by the Company
from the Restricted Custodial Account in accordance with the Company's written
instructions.


                                  ARTICLE IV

               VALUATION OF COLLATERAL; REPORTS BY THE CUSTODIAN
               -------------------------------------------------

     4.01  Valuation of Collateral.  The Custodian shall determine the Market
           -----------------------                                           
Value of all Eligible Collateral and deliver Valuation Reports to the Agent as
provided in Section 3.04 of the Pledge Agreement.  The Company and the Agent
each acknowledge that the Custodian employs one or more nationally recognized
pricing services, financial periodicals and publications to ascribe market
values to some or all of the Collateral.  The Company and the Agent each
acknowledge that these ascribed values

                                       5 
<PAGE>
 
may not equal the actual market value of the Collateral and that neither the
Custodian nor any vendor from whom the Custodian receives pricing information,
guarantees their accuracy.


                                   ARTICLE V

                     ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF SECURITY INTEREST
                     IN FAVOR OF AGENT; WAIVER OF SET-OFF
                     ------------------------------------

          (a)  The Custodian hereby confirms that it has received a copy of the
Pledge Agreement and acknowledges the security interest granted by the Company
in favor of the Agent in the Collateral.

          (b)  The Custodian hereby further acknowledges that it holds the
Restricted Custodial Account, and all other Collateral registered to or held
therein, for the benefit of, and subject to such security interest in favor of,
the Agent.  The Custodian shall, by book entry or otherwise, identify the
Restricted Custodial Account, and all other Collateral registered to or held
therein, as being subject to such security interest in favor of the Agent.

          (c)  The Company, the Custodian and the Agent hereby agree that in the
event any dispute arises with respect to the payment, ownership or right to
possession of the Restricted Custodial Account or any other Collateral
registered to or held therein, the Custodian shall take such actions and shall
refrain from taking such actions with respect thereto as may be directed by the
Agent, regardless of the rights of the Company under the Custodial Agreement.
This paragraph (c) shall not affect or limit the Company's rights or remedies
against the Agent if the Agent directs the Custodian to take any action which
the Agent is not entitled to direct or take under the Credit Agreement or the
other Loan Documents.

          (d)  The Custodian shall not exercise any right of set-off, banker's
lien, counterclaim or similar right against any of the Collateral; provided that
                                                                   --------     
the Custodian may deduct, from (i) the Collateral, or otherwise from the
Restricted Custodial Account, any amount necessary to settle any security
transaction related thereto, in accordance with the Custodial Agreement, and
(ii) any payments or cash distributions on or with respect to any Investments,
any usual and ordinary transaction and administration fees payable in connection
with the administration and operation of the Restricted Custodial Account.
Notwithstanding anything herein, in the Credit Agreement, in the Pledge
Agreement or any related documents to the contrary, the Agent and the Company
hereby agree that the continuing lien and pledge on, and security interest in,
the Collateral granted to the Custodian by the Company pursuant to the Custodial
Agreement shall be equal to the security interest of the Agent but only to

                                       6
<PAGE>
 
the extent that such lien, pledge and security interest of the Custodian secures
the obligations of the Company to the Custodian under the Custodial Agreement
and that such lien, pledge and security interest of the Custodian shall be
junior to the security interest of the Agent to the extent such lien, pledge and
security interest secures obligations of the Company to the Custodian other than
those arising under the Custodial Agreement.


                                  ARTICLE VI

                 EXCULPATION AND INDEMNIFICATION OF CUSTODIAN
                 --------------------------------------------

     6.01  Custodian's Duties.  The Custodian's duties hereunder are only those
           ------------------                                                  
specifically provided herein and no implied duties shall be read into this
Agreement, and the Custodian shall incur no liability whatsoever for any actions
or omissions hereunder except for any such liability arising out of or in
connection with the Custodian's gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The
Custodian shall be fully protected and shall suffer no liability in acting in
accordance with any written instructions reasonably believed by it to have been
given (a) by the Agent with respect to any aspect of the operation of the
Restricted Custodial Account (including any such instructions relating to any
investments of any amounts on deposit therein) or (b) by the Company, to the
extent provided in Section 3.01, with respect to any investments of any amounts
on deposit in the Restricted Custodial Account or in Section 3.02, with respect
to the transfer of Collateral.  The Custodian shall have no obligation to
determine whether or not an Event of Default under the Credit Agreement shall
have occurred.  The Custodian shall not be liable or deemed to be in default
hereunder for any failure or delay in performance of any duty in whole or in
part arising out of or caused by circumstances beyond its control including,
without limitation, acts of God, interruption, delay in, or loss (partial or
complete) of electrical power or of computer (hardware or software) or
communication services; act of civil or military authority; sabotage, war or
other government action; civil disturbance or riot; strike or other industrial
dispute; national emergency; epidemic; flood, earthquake, fire, or other
catastrophe; government, judicial, or self-regulatory organization order, rule,
or regulation; energy or natural resource difficulty or shortage; and inability
to obtain or timely to obtain materials, equipment, or transportation.

     6.02  Indemnification.  The Company agrees to indemnify the Custodian from
           ---------------                                                     
and against any and all claims, losses, liabilities and expenses (including
reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and the reasonable allocated charges of
internal counsel) in any way relating to, growing out of or resulting from this
Agreement or the performance of its obligations hereunder, except to the extent
arising out of or in connection with the

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
Custodian's gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The Custodian agrees to
indemnify the Company, the Agent and the Banks from and against any and all
claims, losses, liabilities and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees
and expenses and the reasonable allocated charges of internal counsel) in any
way relating to, growing out of or resulting from any actions taken by the
Custodian under this Agreement amounting to gross negligence or willful
misconduct of the Custodian or its officers or employees, except for
consequential damages caused thereby.  The Agent, for itself and on behalf of
the Banks, agrees to indemnify the Custodian from and against any and all
claims, losses, liabilities and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees
and expenses and the reasonable allocated charges of internal counsel) in any
way relating to, growing out of or resulting from any actions taken by the Agent
or its officers or employees under this Agreement or the Pledge Agreement
amounting to negligence or willful misconduct, except for consequential damages
caused thereby.  The Company agrees to release, indemnify and defend against,
and each of the Company and the Agent, for itself and on behalf of the Banks,
agrees to hold the Custodian harmless against, any risk, loss, claim, liability,
demand, damage or expense resulting from and/or related to the ascribed market
value of the Collateral, including without limitation, claims made against the
Company or the Agent by any third party.  The provisions of this Article shall
survive termination of this Agreement.


                                  ARTICLE VII

                REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES BY THE CUSTODIAN
                -----------------------------------------------

     The Custodian hereby represents and warrants to the Company and the Agent
as follows:

          (a)  The Custodian has all necessary corporate power and authority to
enter into and perform this Agreement.

          (b)  The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by the
Custodian have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the
part of the Custodian.  This Agreement constitutes the valid, legal and binding
agreement of the Custodian, enforceable in accordance with its terms.

          (c)  The Custodian is (i) a national banking association and (ii)
eligible to maintain custodial book entry accounts with a Federal Reserve Bank
under Sections 306.115 through 306.122 of Title 31 of the CFR.  In the ordinary
course of its business, the Custodian accepts for deposit items similar to the
Eligible Investments as a service for its customers, and maintains securities
accounts in the names of such customers reflecting ownership of or interests in
such items.  The Custodian is a "financial intermediary" (as that term is
defined

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
in Section 8-313 of the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of
California) and is acting in such capacity for purposes of this Agreement.

          (d)  At the time any Collateral is valued in any Valuation Report, the
Custodian's Custody Unit located at the address set forth in Section 10.05(b)
will not have received, acknowledged or accepted any notice, order, registration
or other document which purports to constitute any pledge, claim, security
interest, lien, encumbrance or adverse claim of any kind with respect to such
Collateral, other than the pledge and security interest in favor of the Agent
pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, or been served with legal process with respect
to such Collateral.  The Custodian has not sold, transferred, assigned, pledged
or granted, and after the date hereof the Custodian will not, except as
specified in Article III, paragraph (d) of Article V or subsection 9.03(d),
sell, transfer, assign, pledge or grant a security interest in, the Collateral,
or any part thereof, to any Person, including the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York, any other Federal Reserve Bank, the United States Treasury or any other
transferee or pledgee eligible to maintain a book-entry account in its name with
a Federal Reserve Bank.


                                 ARTICLE VIII

                                  TERMINATION
                                  -----------

          This Agreement shall terminate, and all rights to the Restricted
Custodial Account and all other Collateral registered to or held therein shall
revert to the Company, upon the Custodian's receipt of written notice, signed by
an authorized officer of the Agent, that the Pledge Agreement has terminated.


                                  ARTICLE IX

                   RESIGNATION AND REMOVAL OF THE CUSTODIAN
                   ----------------------------------------

     9.01  Removal.  The Custodian may be removed at any time by written notice
           -------                                                             
given by the Agent to the Custodian and the Company, but such removal shall not
become effective until a successor Custodian shall have been appointed in
accordance with Section 9.03 and shall have accepted such appointment in
writing.

     9.02  Resignation.  The Custodian may resign at any time by giving not less
           -----------                                                          
than thirty days' written notice to the Agent and the Company, but such
resignation shall not become effective until a successor Custodian shall have
been appointed in accordance with Section 9.03 and shall have accepted such
appointment in writing.  If an instrument of acceptance by a successor Custodian
shall not have been delivered to the resigning Custodian within thirty days
after the giving of any

                                       9
<PAGE>
 
such notice of resignation, the resigning Custodian may, at the expense of the
Company, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a
successor Custodian.

     9.03  Successor Custodian.  (a)  If the Custodian resigns or is removed
           -------------------                                              
hereunder or becomes incapable of acting or is adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent,
or if a receiver, liquidator or conservator of the Custodian, or of its
property, shall be appointed, or if any public officer shall take charge or
control of the Custodian, or of its property or affairs, the Company may appoint
an Approved Custodian as successor hereunder or, with the consent of the Agent
and Majority Banks, may appoint another entity complying with Section 9.03(b) as
successor hereunder.

          (b)  Any Custodian appointed under the provisions of Section 9.03(a)
in succession to the Custodian shall be either (i) an Approved Custodian or (ii)
a bank or trust company or banking association in good standing having capital
stock and surplus aggregating at least $1,000,000,000, which, in the case of
either (i) or (ii), shall be authorized by law to perform all the duties imposed
upon it by this Agreement and able to make the representations contained in
subsections (a), (b) and (c) of Article VII.

          (c)  Any company into which the Custodian may be merged or converted
or with which it may be consolidated or any company resulting from any merger,
conversion or consolidation to which it shall be a party, or any company to
which the Custodian may sell or transfer all or substantially all of its custody
business shall be the successor to the Custodian hereunder without the execution
or filing of any paper or the performance of any further act, if and only if
such company shall be either (i) an Approved Custodian or (ii) a bank or trust
company or banking association in good standing having capital stock and surplus
aggregating at least $1,000,000,000, which, in the case of either (i) or (ii),
shall be authorized by law to perform all the duties imposed upon it by this
Agreement and able to make the representations contained in clauses (a), (b) and
(c) of Article VII.

          (d)  Upon the appointment of a successor Custodian and its acceptance
of such appointment and upon payment of all Obligations (as defined in the
Custodial Agreement) and all fees and expenses owed to the Custodian hereunder,
the resigning or removed Custodian shall transfer all items of Collateral held
by it to such successor (which items of Collateral shall be deposited in a new
Restricted Custodial Account established and maintained by such successor) and
the original Custodian shall deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit A with
                                                                  ---------     
respect to all Collateral so transferred.  Following such appointment all
references herein to the Custodian shall be deemed a reference to such
successor; provided that the provisions of Article VI hereof and of Section 8 of
           --------                                                             
the Custodial Agreement shall continue to

                                      10
<PAGE>
 
inure to the benefit of the resigning or removed Custodian with respect to any
actions taken or omitted to be taken by it under this Agreement while it was the
Custodian hereunder.


                                   ARTICLE X

                                 MISCELLANEOUS
                                 -------------

     10.01  Amendments; Conflicts With Custodial Agreement.  No amendment or
            ----------------------------------------------                  
waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Custodial Agreement and no
consent with respect to any departure by the Company or the Custodian therefrom,
shall be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Agent,
the Company, and the Custodian, and then any such waiver or consent shall be
effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which
given.  In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the
terms of the Custodial Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

     10.02  Successors and Assigns.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be
            ----------------------                                            
binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective
successors and assigns, except that neither the Company nor the Custodian
(except as provided in Section 9.03(c)) may assign or transfer any of its rights
or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of each of
the other parties hereto.

     10.03  Governing Law.  (a) THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND
            -------------                                               
CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA WITHOUT
REFERENCE TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS, EXCEPT AS REQUIRED BY MANDATORY
PROVISIONS OF LAW AND TO THE EXTENT THE VALIDITY OR PERFECTION OF THE LIENS
HEREUNDER IN RESPECT OF ANY COLLATERAL ARE GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF A JURISDICTION
OTHER THAN CALIFORNIA.

          (b)  ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY
BE BROUGHT IN THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA OR OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA, AND BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS
AGREEMENT, EACH OF THE COMPANY, THE AGENT (FOR ITSELF AND ON BEHALF OF THE
BANKS) AND THE CUSTODIAN CONSENTS, FOR ITSELF AND IN RESPECT OF ITS PROPERTY, TO
THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THOSE COURTS.  EACH OF THE COMPANY, THE AGENT
(FOR ITSELF AND ON BEHALF OF THE BANKS) AND THE CUSTODIAN IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY
OBJECTION, INCLUDING ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OR BASED ON THE
GROUNDS OF FORUM NON CONVENIENS, WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE
           --------------------                                           
BRINGING OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN SUCH JURISDICTION IN RESPECT OF THIS
AGREEMENT OR ANY DOCUMENT RELATED HERETO.  THE COMPANY, THE AGENT (FOR ITSELF
AND ON BEHALF OF THE BANKS) AND THE CUSTODIAN EACH WAIVES PERSONAL SERVICE OF
ANY SUMMONS, COMPLAINT OR OTHER PROCESS, WHICH MAY BE MADE BY ANY OTHER MEANS
PERMITTED BY CALIFORNIA LAW.

                                      11
<PAGE>
 
     10.04  Waiver of Jury Trial.  THE COMPANY, THE AGENT (FOR ITSELF AND ON
            --------------------                                            
BEHALF OF THE BANKS) AND THE CUSTODIAN EACH WAIVES THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO A
TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION BASED UPON OR ARISING OUT OF OR
RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY, IN
ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR OTHER LITIGATION OF ANY TYPE BROUGHT BY ANY OF THE
PARTIES AGAINST ANY OTHER PARTY, WHETHER WITH RESPECT TO CONTRACT CLAIMS, TORT
CLAIMS, OR OTHERWISE.  THE COMPANY, THE AGENT (FOR ITSELF AND ON BEHALF OF THE
BANKS) AND THE CUSTODIAN EACH AGREES THAT ANY SUCH CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION
SHALL BE TRIED BY A COURT TRIAL WITHOUT A JURY.  WITHOUT LIMITING THE FOREGOING,
THE PARTIES FURTHER AGREE THAT THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY IS
WAIVED BY OPERATION OF THIS SECTION AS TO ANY ACTION, COUNTERCLAIM OR OTHER
PROCEEDING WHICH SEEKS, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, TO CHALLENGE THE VALIDITY OR
ENFORCEABILITY OF THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY PROVISION HEREOF.  THIS WAIVER SHALL
APPLY TO ANY SUBSEQUENT AMENDMENTS, RENEWALS, SUPPLEMENTS OR MODIFICATIONS TO
THIS AGREEMENT.

     10.05  Notices; Written Instructions.
            ----------------------------- 

          (a)  All written instructions, notices, requests and other
communications shall be in writing (including, unless the context expressly
otherwise provides, by facsimile transmission, provided that any matter
transmitted by facsimile shall be followed promptly by delivery of a hard copy
original thereof) and mailed, faxed or delivered, to the address or facsimile
number specified for notices below; or to such other address as shall be
designated by any party in a written notice to the other parties.

          (b)  All such notices, requests and communications shall, when
transmitted by overnight delivery, or faxed, be effective when delivered for
overnight (next-day) delivery, or transmitted in legible form by facsimile
machine, respectively, or if mailed, upon the third Business Day after the date
deposited into the U.S. mail, or if delivered, upon delivery.

          Address of the Agent:
          -------------------- 

          Bank of America National Trust and
          Savings Association
          1455 Market Street, 12th Floor
          San Francisco, CA 94103
          Attention:     Ivo Bakovic
                         Vice President
                         Agency Management Services #5596
          Facsimile No.: (415) 622-4894

                                      12
<PAGE>
 
          Address of the Company:
          ---------------------- 

          McKesson Corporation
          One Post Street
          San Francisco, CA 94104
          Attention:

          Facsimile:  (415) 983-8464


          Address of the Custodian:
          ------------------------ 

          Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association
          1455 Market Street, 16th Floor
          San Francisco, CA  94103

          Attention:  Rick Hawkins
 
          Facsimile: (415) 622-5167

     10.06  Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of
            ------------                                                  
separate counterparts, each of which, when so executed, shall be deemed an
original, and all of said counterparts taken together shall be deemed to
constitute but one and the same instrument.

     10.07  No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies.  No failure to exercise and no delay
            ------------------------------                                      
in exercising, on the part of the Agent, any right, remedy, power or privilege
hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial
exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other
or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or
privilege.  The rights and remedies of the parties provided herein are
cumulative and are in addition to, and not exclusive of, any rights or remedies
provided by law.

     10.08  Severability.  The illegality or unenforceability of any provision
            ------------                                                      
of this Agreement or any instrument or agreement required hereunder shall not in
any way affect or impair the legality or enforceability of the remaining
provisions of this Agreement or any instrument or agreement required hereunder.

     10.09  No Third Parties Benefited.  This Agreement is made and entered into
            --------------------------                                          
for the sole protection and legal benefit of the Custodian, the Company, the
Agent, and the Banks for which the Agent acts as the Agent, and their permitted
successors and assigns, and no other Person shall be a direct or indirect
beneficiary of, or have any direct or indirect cause of action or claim in
connection with, this Agreement.

     10.10  Entire Agreement.  This Agreement embodies the entire agreement and
            ----------------                                                   
understanding among the Custodian, on one hand, and the Company and the Agent,
on the other, and supersedes all prior

                                      13
<PAGE>
 
or contemporaneous agreements and understandings of such parties, verbal or
written, relating to the subject matter hereof.

 
               [Remainder of this page intentionally left blank]

                                      14
<PAGE>
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the day
and year first above written.

The Company:             McKESSON CORPORATION

                             
                         By:    
                            ------------------------------------------
                         Its: 
                             -----------------------------------------


The Agent:               BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
                         AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION,
                         as Agent


                         By:__________________________________________
                         Its:_________________________________________


The Custodian:           BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
                         AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION


                         By:__________________________________________
                         Its:_________________________________________


                         By:__________________________________________
                         Its:_________________________________________

                                      S-1
<PAGE>
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the day
and year first above written.

The Company:                       McKESSON CORPORATION


                                   By:__________________________________________
                                   Its:_________________________________________



The Agent:                         BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
                                   AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION,
                                   as Agent


                                   By:
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                   Its:
                                       -----------------------------------------


The Custodian:                     BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
                                   AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION


                                   By: 
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                   Its:
                                       -----------------------------------------


                                   By:
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                   Its: 
                                       -----------------------------------------

                                      S-1
<PAGE>
 
                                  Schedule A
                                  ----------

U.S. GOVERNMENT SECURITIES
- --------------------------

United States Treasury Bills
United States Treasury Bonds
United States Treasury Notes
<PAGE>
 
                                                                       EXHIBIT A


RE:  McKesson Restricted Custodial Account


                  CERTIFICATION OF THE CUSTODIAN UPON TRANSFER

     Reference is made to the Custodial Agreement Acknowledgment dated as of
March 31, 1995 (the "Agreement") among McKesson Corporation (the "Company"),
Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association (the "Custodian") and
Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, as Agent ("Agent").
Terms which are defined in the Agreement are used herein with the meanings given
them in the Agreement.

     Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the Custodian hereby represents and
warrants to the Agent that:

     (a)  The person signing this instrument on behalf of the Custodian is the
duly elected, qualified and acting officer of the Custodian as indicated below
such officer's signature hereto, having all necessary authority to act for the
Custodian in making the certification herein contained.

     (b)  The Collateral described below represents all Collateral contained in
the Restricted Custodial Account:

     [Investments to be described here by Issuer, Par Amount, Coupon and
Maturity; other Collateral to be described by dollar amount and type]

     (c)  The representations and warranties of the Custodian set forth in
Article VII of the Agreement are true and correct on and as of the date hereof
with respect to all Collateral, with the same effect as though such
representations and warranties had been made on and as of the date hereof.

     (d)  Except to the extent waived in writing by the Agent, the Custodian has
performed and complied with all agreements and conditions in the Agreement
required to be performed or complied with by the Custodian on or before the date
hereof.

                                      A-1
<PAGE>
 
     In accordance with the instructions of the Company and the Agent, the
Custodian agrees to transfer all Collateral immediately after its execution of
this Certificate to account number __________ at [the successor custodian].

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument is executed as of ____________________,
________.

                                             BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST AND 
                                             SAVINGS ASSOCIATION
                       
                       
                                             By:______________________________
                       
                                                Name: ________________________
                       
                                                Title: _______________________

                                      A-2
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.27
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>PLEDGE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.27

                               PLEDGE AGREEMENT
                               ----------------


          This PLEDGE AND SECURITY AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is entered into
                                                    ---------  
as of March 31, 1995 among McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the
"Pledgor"), and Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, as agent
 -------
(in such capacity, the "Agent") for the several financial institutions (the
                        -----  
"Banks") from time to time party to the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter
 -----
defined).

                                   RECITALS
                                   --------

          A.   The Agent, Chemical Bank, as Co-Agent, Bank of America Canada, as
Canadian Administrative Agent, and the Banks have entered into a Credit
Agreement dated as of March 31, 1995 (the "Credit Agreement") with the Pledgor
                                           ----------------
and Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc. ("Medis") pursuant to which
the Banks have made certain commitments, subject to the terms and conditions set
forth in the Credit Agreement, to extend certain credit facilities to the
Pledgor and to Medis.

          B.   Pledgor may, from time to time, but is not required to, pledge
Collateral (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.

          C.   It is a condition precedent to the initial extensions of credit
by the Banks under the Credit Agreement that the Pledgor shall have executed and
delivered to the Agent and the Banks this Agreement.

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements, provisions
and covenants contained herein, the parties agree as follows:


                                   ARTICLE I

                          DEFINITIONS AND REFERENCES
                          --------------------------

     1.01  General Definitions.  All capitalized terms used in this Agreement
           -------------------                                               
(including in the recitals hereof) and not otherwise defined herein shall have
the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement. As used in this
Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

     "Applicable CFR Sections" has the meaning specified in Section 6.04(b).
      -----------------------                                               

     "Approved Custodian" has the meaning specified in the Credit Agreement.
      ------------------                                                    

                                       1
<PAGE>
 
     "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on
      ------------                                                             
which commercial banks in New York City or San Francisco are authorized or
required by law to close.

     "CFR" means the United States Code of Federal Regulations, as from time to
      ---                                                                      
time amended.

     "Collateral" means (a) the Collateral Accounts, (b) all amounts on deposit
      ----------                                                               
from time to time in the Collateral Accounts, (c) all Investments, including all
securities (whether certificated or uncertificated), instruments, accounts,
general intangibles and deposits representing or evidencing any Investments, (d)
all interest, dividends, cash, instruments, securities and other property from
time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of or in
exchange for any or all of the Collateral (other than such interest, dividends,
cash, instruments, securities and other property deposited into an account
designated by the Pledgor that is not a Collateral Account in accordance with
Section 3.03(c)), (e) all of the Pledgor's right, title and interest in, to and
under the Custodial Agreement (as, and only to the extent it refers or applies
to the Collateral Accounts), and (f) to the extent not covered by clauses (a)
through (e) above, all Proceeds of any or all of the foregoing Collateral.

     "Collateral Accounts" means the Restricted Custodial Account and any other
      -------------------                                                      
accounts in which Investments may be held or registered.

     "Collateral Period" means (a) the period from the Closing Date to June 30,
      -----------------                                                        
1995 and (b) any calendar quarter commencing thereafter.

     "Custodial Agreement" means the Custody Agreement dated November 21, 1994
      -------------------                                                     
between BofA in its capacity as Custodian and the Pledgor and any successor or
other Custodial Agreement permitted under the terms of this Agreement and the
Credit Agreement.

     "Custodial Agreement Acknowledgment" means the Custodial Agreement
      ----------------------------------                               
Acknowledgment among the Pledgor, the Custodian and Agent substantially in the
form of Exhibit J annexed to the Credit Agreement and any other Custodial
Agreement Acknowledgment approved by Majority Banks.

     "Custodian" means BofA in its capacity as custodian under the Custodial
      ---------                                                             
Agreement and any successor custodian or custodians under a Custodial Agreement
permitted under the terms of this Agreement and the Credit Agreement.

     "Designated Collateral" has the meaning specified in Section 3.05.
      ---------------------                                            

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
     "Eligible Collateral" means, as of any Valuation Day, cash and Eligible
      -------------------                                                   
Investments on deposit in the Restricted Custodial Account as of such day.

     "Eligible Investments" means U.S. Government Securities.
      --------------------                                   

     "Investments" means those investments, if any, made by the Custodian upon
      -----------                                                             
direction from the Pledgor or Agent, as the case may be, with amounts on deposit
in the Restricted Custodial Account pursuant to Article III of the Custodial
Agreement Acknowledgment.

     "Lowest Quarterly Market Value" has the meaning specified in Section
      -----------------------------                                      
3.04(c).

     "Market Value" means, with respect to the Eligible Collateral on any
      ------------                                                       
Valuation Day, a dollar value determined as follows:

     (a) cash shall be valued at its face amount on such Valuation Day; and

     (b) an Eligible Investment shall be valued pursuant to the Custodian's
standard and customary pricing sources for such Eligible Investment which it
believes to be reliable.

     "Proceeds" means whatever is receivable or received from or upon the sale,
      --------                                                                 
lease, license, collection, use, exchange or other disposition, whether
voluntary or involuntary, of any Collateral, including "proceeds" as defined at
UCC Section 9306, any and all proceeds of any insurance, indemnity, warranty or
guaranty payable to or for the account of the Pledgor from time to time with
respect to any of the Collateral, any and all payments (in any form whatsoever)
made or due and payable to the Pledgor from time to time in connection with any
requisition, confiscation, condemnation, seizure or forfeiture of all or any
part of the Collateral by any Governmental Authority (or any Person acting under
color of Governmental Authority), any and all other amounts from time to time
paid or payable under or in connection with any of the Collateral or for or on
account of any damage or injury to or conversion of any Collateral by any
Person, any and all other tangible or intangible property received upon the sale
or disposition of Collateral, and all proceeds of proceeds.

     "Restricted Custodial Account" means account No. 197427321 (Ref:
      ----------------------------                                   
McKesson Corporation) established and maintained with the Custodian pursuant to
the Custodial Agreement that is pledged to Agent on behalf of Banks pursuant to
the terms hereof.

     "Secured Obligations" means all obligations and liabilities of every nature
      -------------------                                                       
of the Pledgor now or hereafter existing under or arising out of or in
connection with the Credit Agreement, the Guaranty and the other Loan Documents
and all extensions or

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
renewals thereof, whether for principal, interest (including interest that, but
for the filing of a petition in bankruptcy with respect to the Pledgor, would
accrue on such obligations), fees, expenses, indemnities or otherwise, whether
voluntary or involuntary, direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, liquidated
or unliquidated, whether or not jointly owed with others, and whether or not
from time to time decreased or extinguished and later increased, created or
incurred, and all or any portion of such obligations or liabilities that are
paid, to the extent all or any part of such payment is avoided or recovered
directly or indirectly from the Agent or any Bank as a preference, fraudulent
transfer or otherwise, and all obligations of every nature of the Pledgor now or
hereafter existing under this Agreement.

     "UCC" means the Uniform Commercial Code as the same may, from time to time,
      ---                                                                       
be in effect in the State of California; provided, however, in the event that,
                                         --------  -------                    
by reason of mandatory provisions of law, any or all of the attachment,
perfection or priority of the security interest in any Collateral is governed by
the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in a jurisdiction other than the State
of California, the term "UCC" shall mean the Uniform Commercial Code as in
effect in such other jurisdiction for purposes of the provisions hereof relating
to such attachment, perfection or priority and for purposes of definitions
related to such provisions.

     "U.S. Government Securities" means securities issued or directly and
      --------------------------                                         
unconditionally guaranteed as to interest and principal by the United States
Government or its agencies identified specifically by type on Schedule A to the
                                                              ----------       
Custodial Agreement Acknowledgment, as supplemented from time to time in
accordance with the Custodial Agreement Acknowledgment.

     "Valuation Day" has the meaning specified in subsection 3.04(a) .
      -------------                                                   

     "Valuation Report" has the meaning specified in subsection 3.04(b).
      ----------------                                                  

     "Valuation Summary" has the meaning specified in subsection 3.04(c).
      -----------------                                                  

     1.02  Other Interpretive Provisions.  (a) The meanings of defined terms are
           -----------------------------                                        
equally applicable to the singular and plural forms of the defined terms.

          (b) The words "hereof", "herein", "hereunder" and similar words refer
to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this
Agreement; and subsection, Section, Schedule and Exhibit references are to this
Agreement unless otherwise specified.

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
          (c)  (i)  The term "documents" includes any and all instruments,
documents, agreements, certificates, indentures, notices and other writings,
however evidenced.

              (ii)  The term "including" is not limiting and means "including
without limitation."

             (iii)  In the computation of periods of time from a specified date
to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including"; the words
"to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding", and the word "through" means "to
and including."

          (d) Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, (i) references to
agreements (including this Agreement) and other contractual instruments shall be
deemed to include all subsequent amendments and other modifications thereto, but
only to the extent such amendments and other modifications are not prohibited by
the terms of this Agreement, and (ii) references to any statute or regulation
are to be construed as including all statutory and regulatory provisions
consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing or interpreting the statute or
regulation.

          (e) The captions and headings of this Agreement are for convenience of
reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.

          (f) This Agreement is the result of negotiations among and have been
reviewed by counsel to the Agent, the Customer and the Custodian and is the
product of all parties. Accordingly, it shall not be construed against the Banks
or the Agent merely because of the Agent's or Banks' involvement in its
preparation.


                                  ARTICLE II

                  PLEDGE OF SECURITY FOR SECURED OBLIGATIONS
                  ------------------------------------------

          2.01  Grant of Security Interest.  The Pledgor hereby pledges and
                --------------------------                                 
assigns to the Agent, and hereby grants to the Agent (for itself and on behalf
of and for the Canadian Administrative Agent and the ratable benefit of the
Banks) a security interest in, all of the Pledgor's right, title and interest in
and to the Collateral as collateral security for the prompt payment or
performance in full when due, whether at stated maturity, by required
prepayment, declaration, acceleration, demand or otherwise (including the
payment of amounts that would become due but for the operation of the automatic
stay under Section 362(a) of the United States Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C.
362(a)), of all Secured Obligations.

          2.02  Financing Statements, Etc.  The Pledgor shall execute and
                --------------------------                               
deliver to the Agent, at any time and from time to

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
time, all financing statements for filing in California and such other
jurisdictions as may be designated by the Agent, continuation statements,
termination statements, notices, and all other documents and instruments (the
"Financing Statements") which the Agent may reasonably request, in form
 --------------------                                                  
satisfactory to the Agent, and the Pledgor hereby agrees to, and authorizes the
Agent to, take such other steps as shall be requested by the Agent to perfect
and continue perfected, maintain the priority of or provide notice of the pledge
of and security interest in the Collateral and to accomplish the purposes of
this Agreement.

          2.03  Delivery of Payments and Other Distributions.  Upon the
                --------------------------------------------           
occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default, if the Pledgor
shall become entitled to receive or shall receive in connection with the
Collateral any payment or other distribution, the Pledgor shall accept such
payment or distribution as the agent for the Agent, shall hold it in trust for
the benefit of the Agent, shall segregate it from other property or funds of the
Pledgor, and shall deliver all such payments and distributions, in the exact
form received, forthwith to or for the account of the Agent, at the address and
to the Person or Persons to be designated by the Agent, with any necessary
endorsements and other instruments of transfer or assignment, all in form and
substance satisfactory to the Agent, as the Agent shall request, to be held by
the Agent subject to the terms hereof, as part of the Collateral.

          2.04  Continuing Security Interest.  The Pledgor agrees that this
                ----------------------------                               
Agreement shall create a continuing security interest in and pledge of the
Collateral which shall remain in effect until terminated in accordance with
Article VIII.


                                  ARTICLE III

              ESTABLISHMENT AND OPERATION OF COLLATERAL ACCOUNTS;
              ---------------------------------------------------
                      VALUATION AND RELEASE OF COLLATERAL
                      -----------------------------------

          3.01 Restricted Custodial Account.  The Pledgor has established with
               ----------------------------                                   
the Custodian the Restricted Custodial Account and from time to time may deposit
Collateral therein all of which is and will be held and applied in accordance
with this Agreement, the Custodial Agreement and the Custodial Agreement
Acknowledgment.

          3.02  Operation of Collateral Accounts.
                -------------------------------- 

          (a) The Restricted Custodial Account shall be operated, and all
Investments shall be purchased and registered or held (as applicable), in
accordance with the terms of the Custodial Agreement and the Custodial Agreement
Acknowledgment.

                                       6
<PAGE>
 
          (b) The Agent shall be fully protected and shall suffer no liability
in acting in accordance with any instructions reasonably believed by it to have
been given by the Pledgor with respect to any aspect of the operation of the
Collateral Accounts (including any such instructions relating to any Investments
of any amounts on deposit therein).

          (c) Anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the
Collateral Accounts shall be subject to such applicable laws, and such
applicable regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
and of any other appropriate banking or governmental authority, as may now or
hereafter be in effect.

     3.03  Investment of Amounts In the Collateral Accounts.
           ------------------------------------------------ 

          (a) Cash held by the Custodian in the Restricted Custodial Account
shall not be invested or reinvested except as provided in this Article III and
in the Custodial Agreement Acknowledgement.

          (b) So long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be
continuing, Pledgor may direct the purchase and sale of Investments on deposit
in the Restricted Custodial Account in accordance with Article III of the
Custodial Agreement Acknowledgement.  At any time after the occurrence and
during the continuance of an Event of Default, Agent may provide written notice
to the Custodian suspending the Pledgor's right to direct the investment of
funds on deposit in the Restricted Custodial Account; provided that, if the
Agent has so notified the Custodian and such Event of Default shall no longer be
continuing, then, upon request of the Pledgor, the Agent shall provide written
notice to the Custodian revoking such suspension.

          (c) Subject to the Agent's rights under clause (d), any interest, cash
dividends or other cash distributions received by the Custodian in respect of
any Investments (other than proceeds from the sale of Investments) shall be
transferred in accordance with Section 4 of the Custodial Agreement or to any
other account designated by the Pledgor.  Any distribution of property other
than cash in respect of any Investment shall be held in the Restricted Custodial
Account and the net proceeds of any sale or payment of any Investments shall be
held in a Collateral Account pending investment.

          (d) The Pledgor agrees that the Agent may sell or cause the sale of
any Investment and, if appropriate, instruct the Custodian to transfer the
proceeds of such sale or any other cash on deposit in the Restricted Custodial
Account to an account designated by the Agent, in either case (i) if such sale
or transfer is necessary to permit the Agent to perform its duties under this
Agreement or the Credit Agreement and (ii) as otherwise provided in Section
6.04.

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
     3.04  Valuation of Collateral.
           ----------------------- 

          (a) On or prior to the fifth Business Day after (1) the last Business
Day of each calendar month, (2) the next Business Day after any day on which
Collateral is released from the Custodial Account pursuant to Section 3.05
hereof and (3) the Business Day immediately preceding any day on which
Collateral is added to the Custodial Account pursuant to Section 3.06 hereof,
the Pledgor shall cause the Custodian to, as provided in the Custodial Agreement
Acknowledgment:

               (i) determine the Market Value of all Eligible Collateral which
was held in the Restricted Custodial Account as of the close of business on such
(1) last Business Day of the calendar month, (2) next Business Day after the day
on which Collateral is released or (3) Business Day immediately preceding the
day on which Collateral is added, as the case may be, (each such day, a
"Valuation Day"); and
 -------------       

              (ii) prepare a valuation report stating the Market Value of the
Eligible Collateral and any cash held in the Restricted Custodial Account as of
the close of business on each such Valuation Day ("Valuation Report").
                                                   ---------------- 
     
          (b) On or prior to the fifth Business Day after each Valuation Day
referred to in subsection 3.04(a)(i)(1), the Pledgor shall cause the Custodian
to deliver by facsimile transmission to the Agent and the Pledgor the Valuation
Report, and, for any other Valuation Day, upon request of the Agent, the Pledger
shall cause the Custodian to deliver by facsimile transmission to the Agent the
related Valuation Report.

          (c) The Agent may conclusively rely on each Valuation Report. The
Agent shall deliver to each Bank as soon as available, but on or before the
tenth day of each calendar quarter, and to the Pledgor along with each statement
of fees and interest due under the Credit Agreement, a quarterly statement
("Valuation Summary") showing the lowest Market Value of the Eligible Collateral
on a Valuation Day during such quarter or, in the case of a quarter in which the
Closing Date occurs or the Commitments have been terminated, showing the lowest
Market Value of the Eligible Collateral on a Valuation Day during such calendar
quarter during which the Commitments were in effect ("Lowest Quarterly Market
                                                      -----------------------   
Value"), and the Market Value of the Eligible Collateral on each such Valuation
- -----
Day during such calendar quarter. The Lowest Quarterly Market Value so
determined by the Agent shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties in
the absence of manifest error.

     3.05 Release of Collateral.  (a) The Pledgor may, at any time and from time
          ---------------------                                                 
to time (x) if any Loans or Bankers' Acceptances are outstanding, on one
Business Day prior written notice to the Custodian and the Agent and (y) if no
Loans or

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
Bankers' Acceptances are outstanding, upon written notice to the Custodian and
the Agent, request that the Custodian release Collateral as designated by the
Pledgor from the Restricted Custodial Account ("Designated Collateral") (which
                                                ---------------------         
notice shall describe the Designated Collateral in detail); provided that there
shall not have occurred and be continuing a Default or an Event of Default on
the date that the Pledgor requests a release of Designated Collateral, or on the
date that all or any portion of the Designated Collateral is released; and

          (b) Provided that the foregoing conditions shall have been satisfied,
the Pledgor shall be entitled to a release of the Designated Collateral. At any
time after the occurrence and during the continuance of a Default or an Event of
Default (or if a Default or Event of Default would occur on the date that the
Designated Collateral is to be released) the Agent may provide written notice to
the Custodian suspending the Pledgor's right to release Collateral from the
Restricted Custodial Account; provided that, if the Agent has so notified the
Custodian and such Default or Event of Default shall no longer be continuing,
then, upon request of the Pledgor, the Agent shall provide written notice to the
Custodian rescinding such suspension.

     3.06 Additions of Collateral.  The Pledgor may at any time and from time to
          -----------------------                                               
time pledge additional Collateral pursuant hereto by depositing cash or other
Collateral in the Restricted Custodial Account and in the event Pledgor deposits
any additional Collateral, Pledgor shall notify the Agent in writing (which
notice shall describe the additional Collateral in detail) and cause the
Custodian to prepare and deliver a Valuation Report as of the related Valuation
Day as contemplated pursuant to Section 3.04(a)(3).


                                  ARTICLE IV

                        REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
                        ------------------------------

          The Pledgor represents and warrants as follows:

          (a) The Pledgor is (or at the time of transfer thereof to the Agent or
the Custodian will be) the legal and beneficial owner of the Collateral from
time to time transferred by the Pledgor to the Agent or to the Custodian, as
agent for the Agent, free and clear of any Lien except for the security interest
created by this Agreement and the security interest created by the Custodial
Agreement. No dispute, right of set-off, recoupment, counterclaim or defense
exists with respect to all or any part of the Collateral and no effective
financing statement or other instrument similar in effect covering all or any
part of the Collateral is on file in any recording office

                                       9
<PAGE>
 
except such as may have been filed in favor of the Agent relating to this
Agreement.

          (b) No approval, consent, exemption, authorization or other action by,
or no notice to, or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body
is necessary or required in connection with (i) the grant by the Pledgor of the
security interest granted hereby, or (ii) the perfection of or the exercise by
the Agent or the Custodian of its rights and remedies hereunder or under the
Custodial Agreement (except as may have been taken by or at the direction of the
Pledgor).

          (c) The pledge and assignment of the Collateral pursuant to this
Agreement and the Custodial Agreement creates a valid and perfected first
priority security interest in the Collateral, securing the payment of the
Secured Obligations.

          (d) Unless otherwise notified by the Pledgor pursuant to Section 5.04,
Pledgor's chief executive office and principal place of business, and all books
and records concerning the Collateral are located at One Post Street, San
Francisco, California.

          (e) All information heretofore, herein or hereafter supplied to the
Agent or the Custodian by or on behalf of the Pledgor with respect to the
Collateral is accurate and complete in all material respects.


                                   ARTICLE V

                             COVENANTS OF PLEDGOR
                             --------------------

          5.01  Delivery of Collateral.  All documents, certificates,
                ----------------------                               
instruments and writings, if any, evidencing any Collateral pledged concurrently
herewith shall be delivered to the Agent or the Custodian on or prior to the
execution and delivery of this Agreement. All other documents, certificates,
instruments and writings, if any, hereafter evidencing Collateral or
constituting Collateral shall be delivered to the Agent or the Custodian
promptly upon the pledge thereof by the Pledgor. All such documents,
certificates, instruments and writings, if any, shall be held by Custodian on
behalf of the Agent pursuant to the terms of the Custodial Agreement. The
Pledgor will not cause or permit any document, instrument, or certificate
constituting or evidencing Collateral to at any time be in the actual or
constructive possession or control of any Person other than the Agent or a
bailee selected by the Agent (including Custodian) who is holding such
Collateral for the benefit of Agent.

          5.02  Further Assurances.  The Pledgor agrees that from time to time,
                ------------------                                             
at the expense of the Pledgor, the Pledgor will promptly execute and deliver all
further instruments and

                                       10
<PAGE>
 
documents, and take all further action, that may be necessary or desirable, or
that the Agent may reasonably request, in order to perfect and protect any
security interest granted or purported to be granted hereby or to enable the
Agent to exercise and enforce its rights and remedies hereunder or under the
other Collateral Documents with respect to any Collateral. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, the Pledgor will: (i) execute and file such
financing or continuation statements, or amendments thereto, and such other
instruments or notices, as may be necessary or desirable, or as the Agent may
reasonably request, in order to perfect and preserve the security interest
granted or purported to be granted hereby and (ii) at the Agent's reasonable
request, appear in and defend any action or proceeding that may adversely affect
the Pledgor's title to or the Agent's security interest in all or any part of
the Collateral constituting cash or Eligible Investments; provided that Pledgor
shall not be obligated to make such appearance or defense relating to actions or
proceedings challenging security interests junior to the security interest of
the Agent or to the extent the Pledgor shall provide evidence satisfactory to
the Agent that the Pledgor does not intend for such Collateral to constitute
Qualifying Collateral (as defined in the Credit Agreement).

          5.03  Transfers and other Liens.  Subject to Sections 3.03(d) and
                -------------------------                                  
3.05, the Pledgor agrees that it will not (a) sell, assign (by operation of law
or otherwise) or otherwise dispose of any of the Collateral or (b) create or
suffer to exist any Lien upon or with respect to any of the Collateral, or file
or record any financing statement with respect to the Collateral or otherwise
identify the Collateral as being subject to a pledge or security interest,
except for the security interest under this Agreement and the Custodial
Agreement.

          5.04  Chief Executive Office.  The Pledgor will (a) keep all books and
                ----------------------                                          
records pertaining to the Collateral at the location set forth in Article IV (or
such other location as to which Pledgor shall notify Agent pursuant to
subsection 5.04(b)(ii)) and (b) within 30 days after such change) give written
notice to the Agent of any changes in (i) the Pledgor's corporate name, any
tradenames or trade styles or any fictitious business names, or (ii) any such
location where books and records pertaining to the Collateral are kept, or the
location of the Pledgor's chief executive office and principal place of
business.

          5.05  Impairment of Security Interest.  Subject to the terms of this
                -------------------------------                               
Agreement and the Custodial Agreement Acknowledgement, including Sections 3.03
and 3.05, the Pledgor will not take or fail to take any action which would
impair the enforceability of the Agent's security interest in any Collateral.

          5.06  Voting.  Subject to the terms of this Agreement and the
                ------                                                 
Custodial Agreement Acknowledgement, including Sections

                                       11
<PAGE>
 
3.03 and 3.05, the Pledgor will not cast any vote, give or grant any consent,
waiver or ratification or take any action with respect to the Collateral which
would have the effect of impairing the position or interest of the Agent or the
Banks in respect of the Collateral or would be inconsistent with or violate any
provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Documents.

          5.07  Inspection of Collateral and Information.  The Pledgor will keep
                ----------------------------------------                        
adequate records concerning the Collateral and will permit the Agent, any Bank
and their respective representatives to inspect the Pledgor's books and records
concerning the Collateral on the same terms and conditions as set forth in
Section 6.08 of the Credit Agreement. The Pledgor will furnish to the Agent any
information which the Agent may from time to time request at the request of any
Bank concerning any covenant, provision or representation contained herein or
any other matter in connection with the Collateral.


                                  ARTICLE VI

                      REMEDIES, POWERS AND AUTHORIZATIONS
                      -----------------------------------

          6.01.  Agent Appointed Attorney-in-Fact.  The Pledgor hereby
                 --------------------------------                     
irrevocably appoints the Agent (and any of the Agent's officers, employees or
agents designated by the Agent) as the Pledgor's attorney-in-fact, with full
authority in the place and stead of the Pledgor and in the name of the Pledgor,
the Agent or otherwise, from time to time in the Agent's discretion upon the
occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default during any period
when Collateral shall have been pledged to Agent hereunder to take any action
and to execute any instrument that the Agent may deem necessary or advisable to
accomplish the purposes of this Agreement or the Custodial Agreement, including
(a) to file one or more financing or continuation statements, or amendments
thereto, relative to all or any part of the Collateral without the signature of
the Pledgor and (b) to ask, demand, collect, sue for, recover, compound, receive
and give acquittance and receipts for moneys due and to become due under or in
respect of any of the Collateral, (c) to receive, endorse and collect any
instruments or other Investments made payable to the Pledgor representing any
dividend, principal or interest payment or other distribution in respect of the
Collateral or any part thereof and to give full discharge for the same and (d)
to file any claims or take any action or institute any proceedings the Agent may
deem necessary or desirable for the collection of any of the Collateral or
otherwise to enforce the rights of the Agent with respect to any of the
Collateral.

                                       12
<PAGE>
 
          6.02.  Agent May Perform.  If the Pledgor fails to perform any
                 -----------------                                      
agreement contained herein, the Agent may (but shall have no obligation to)
itself perform, or cause performance of, such agreement, and the expenses of the
Agent incurred in connection therewith shall be payable by the Pledgor in
accordance with Section 7.02.

          6.03.  Standard of Care.  The powers conferred on the Agent hereunder
                 ----------------                                              
are solely to protect its interest in the Collateral and shall not impose any
duty upon it to exercise any such powers. Except for the exercise of reasonable
care in the custody of any Collateral in its possession and the accounting for
moneys actually received by it hereunder, the Agent, acting in its capacity as
Agent, shall have no duty as to any Collateral, it being understood that the
Agent shall have no responsibility for (a) ascertaining or taking action with
respect to calls, conversions, exchanges, maturities, tenders or other matters
relating to any Collateral, whether or not the Agent has or is deemed to have
knowledge of such matters, (b) taking any necessary steps (other than steps
taken in accordance with the standard of care set forth above to maintain
possession of the Collateral) to preserve rights against any parties with
respect to any Collateral, (c) taking any necessary steps to collect or realize
upon the Secured Obligations or any guarantee therefor, or any part thereof, or
any of the Collateral, (d) initiating any action to protect the Collateral
against the possibility of a decline in market value, (e) any loss resulting
from Investments made, held or sold pursuant to Article III, except for a loss
resulting from the Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct in complying
with Article III, or (f) determining (i) the correctness of any statement or
calculation made by the Pledgor in any written or telex (tested or otherwise)
instructions or (ii) whether any deposit in the Collateral Accounts is proper.
The Agent shall be deemed to have exercised reasonable care in the custody and
preservation of Collateral in its possession if such Collateral is accorded
treatment substantially equal to that which the Agent accords its own property
of like kind. In addition to the foregoing and without limiting the generality
thereof, the Agent shall not be responsible for any actions or omissions of the
Custodian.

          6.04.  Remedies.
                 -------- 

          (a) If any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the
Agent may (i) sell any of the Collateral, (ii) transfer any or all of the
Collateral constituting cash to an account designated by the Agent or transfer
any or all of the Collateral to an account established in the Agent's name
(whether at the Agent or the Custodian or otherwise), or (iii) register title to
any Collateral in the name of the Agent or one of its nominees or agents,
without reference to any interest of the Pledgor.

                                       13
<PAGE>
 
          (b) If any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the
Agent may exercise in respect of the Collateral, in addition to all other rights
and remedies provided for herein or otherwise available to it, all the rights
and remedies of a secured party on default under the Uniform Commercial Code as
in effect in any relevant jurisdiction (the "Code") (whether or not the Code
                                             ----
applies to the affected Collateral), under 31 CFR (S)(S) 306.115 through 306.122
(herein called the "Applicable CFR Sections"), and the Agent may also in its
sole discretion sell the Collateral or any part thereof in one or more parcels
at public or private sale, at any exchange or broker's board or at any of the
Agent's offices or elsewhere, for cash, on credit or for future delivery, at
such time or times and at such price or prices and upon such other terms as the
Agent may deem commercially reasonable, irrespective of the impact of any such
sales on the market price of the Collateral. Each purchaser at any such sale
shall hold the property sold absolutely free from any claim or right on the part
of the Pledgor, and the Pledgor hereby waives (to the extent permitted by
applicable law) all rights of redemption, stay and/or appraisal which it now has
or may at any time in the future have under any rule of law or statute now
existing or hereafter enacted. The Agent shall not be obligated to make any sale
of Collateral regardless of notice of sale having been given. The Agent may
adjourn any public or private sale from time to time by announcement at the time
and place fixed therefor, and such sale may, without further notice, be made at
the time and place to which it was so adjourned. The Pledgor hereby waives any
claims against the Agent arising by reason of the fact that the price at which
any Collateral may have been sold at such a private sale was less than the price
which might have been obtained at a public sale, even if (in the case of U.S.
Government Securities) the Agent accepts the first offer received and does not
offer such Collateral to more than one offeree.

          (c) The Pledgor hereby agrees that the Collateral is of a type
customarily sold on recognized markets and, accordingly, that no notice to any
Person is required prior to any sale of any of the Collateral pursuant to the
terms of this Agreement; provided that, without prejudice to the foregoing, the
Pledgor agrees that, to the extent notice of any such sale shall be required by
law, at least five days' notice to the Pledgor of the time and place of any
public sale or the time after which any private sale is to be made shall
constitute reasonable notification.

          (d) If the proceeds of any sale or other disposition of the Collateral
are insufficient to pay all the Secured Obligations, the Pledgor shall be liable
for the deficiency and the fees of any attorneys employed by the Agent to
collect such deficiency.

                                       14
<PAGE>
 
          6.05.  Application of Proceeds.  If any Event of Default shall have
                 -----------------------                                     
occurred and be continuing, all cash held by the Agent as Collateral and all
proceeds received by the Agent in respect of any sale of, collection from, or
other realization upon all or any part of the Collateral may, in the discretion
of the Agent, be held by the Agent as Collateral for, and/or then, or at any
other time thereafter, applied in full or in part by the Agent against, the
Secured Obligations in the following order of priority:

          FIRST: To the payment of all costs and expenses of such sale,
     collection or other realization, including reasonable compensation to the
     Agent and its agents and counsel, and all other expenses, liabilities and
     advances made or incurred by the Agent in connection therewith, and all
     amounts for which the Agent is entitled to indemnification hereunder and
     all advances made by the Agent hereunder for the account of the Pledgor,
     and to the payment of all costs and expenses paid or incurred by the Agent
     in connection with the exercise of any right or remedy hereunder, all in
     accordance with Section 7.02;

          SECOND: To the payment of all other Secured Obligations (for the
     ratable benefit of the holders thereof) in such order as the Agent shall
     elect; and

          THIRD: To the payment to or upon the order of the Pledgor, or to
     whosoever may be lawfully entitled to receive the same or as a court of
     competent jurisdiction may direct, of any surplus then remaining from such
     proceeds.


                                  ARTICLE VII

                         INDEMNIFICATION AND EXPENSES
                         ----------------------------

          7.01 Indemnification.  The Pledgor agrees to indemnify the Agent and
               ---------------                                                
 each Bank from and against any and all claims, losses and liabilities of any
 kind or nature whatsoever which may at any time be imposed on, incurred by or
 asserted against the Agent or a Bank as a result of any claim or threatened
 claim by a Person not a party to this Agreement or by the Company (except for
 claims by the Company against the Agent or a Bank that are successful on the
 merits as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction) in any way relating
 to, growing out of or resulting from this Agreement and the transactions
 contemplated hereby (including enforcement of this Agreement), except to the
 extent such claims, losses or liabilities result from the Agent's or such
 Bank's gross negligence or willful misconduct as finally determined by a court
 of competent jurisdiction.

                                       15
<PAGE>
 
          7.02  Expenses.  The Pledgor shall pay to the Agent upon demand the
                --------                                                     
amount of any and all costs and expenses, including the reasonable fees and
expenses of its counsel and of any experts and agents, that the Agent may incur
in connection with (a) the administration of this Agreement, (b) the custody,
preservation, use or operation of, or the sale of, collection from, or other
realization upon, any of the Collateral, (c) the exercise or enforcement of any
of the rights of the Agent hereunder, (d) the failure by the Pledgor to perform
or observe any of the provisions hereof.


                                 ARTICLE VIII

         CONTINUING SECURITY INTEREST; TRANSFER OF SECURED OBLIGATIONS
         -------------------------------------------------------------

          This Agreement shall create a continuing security interest in the
Collateral and shall (a) remain in full force and effect until the indefeasible
payment in full of the Secured Obligations and the cancellation or termination
of the Commitments, (b) be binding upon the Pledgor, its successors and assigns,
and (c) inure, together with the rights and remedies of the Agent hereunder, to
the benefit of the Agent and its successors, transferees and assigns. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing clause (c), but subject to the
provisions of Section 10.08 of the Credit Agreement, any Bank may assign or
otherwise transfer any Secured Obligations held by it to any other Person, and
such other Person shall thereupon become vested with all the benefits in respect
thereof granted to the Banks herein or otherwise. Upon the indefeasible payment
in full of all Secured Obligations and the cancellation or termination of the
Commitments, the security interest granted hereby shall terminate and all rights
to the Collateral shall revert to the Pledgor. Upon any such termination the
Agent will, at the Pledgor's expense, execute and deliver to the Pledgor such
documents as the Pledgor shall reasonably request to evidence such termination
(including the notice described in Article VIII of the Custodial Agreement
Acknowledgment) and the Pledgor shall be entitled to the return, upon its
request and at its expense, against receipt and without recourse to the Agent,
of such of the Collateral as shall not have been sold or otherwise applied
pursuant to the terms hereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
in this Agreement, it is agreed and understood that under the terms and
provisions of the Credit Agreement, the Pledgor is not required to pledge any
Collateral to Agent; provided that if the Pledgor pledges Collateral to Agent
the Pledgor and the Collateral shall be subject to this Agreement. This Article
VIII shall not limit the rights of the Pledgor under Section 3.03(d) or Section
3.06.

                                       16
<PAGE>
 
                                  ARTICLE IX

                                AGENT AS AGENT
                                --------------

          9.01  The Agent has been appointed to act as the Agent hereunder by
the Banks. The Agent shall be obligated, and shall have the right hereunder, to
make demands, to give notices, to exercise or refrain from exercising any
rights, and to take or refrain from taking any action (including the release or
substitution of Collateral), solely in accordance with this Agreement and the
Credit Agreement.

          9.02  The Agent shall at all times be the same Person that is the
Agent under the Credit Agreement. Written notice of resignation by the Agent
pursuant to Section 9.09 of the Credit Agreement shall also constitute notice of
resignation as the Agent under this Agreement; removal of the Agent pursuant to
Section 9.09 of the Credit Agreement shall also constitute removal as the Agent
under this Agreement; and appointment of a successor Agent pursuant to Section
9.09 of the Credit Agreement shall also constitute appointment of a successor
Agent under this Agreement. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as the Agent
under Section 9.09 of the Credit Agreement by a successor Agent, that successor
Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers,
privileges and duties of the retiring or removed Agent under this Agreement, and
the retiring or removed Agent under this Agreement shall promptly (i) transfer
to such successor Agent all records and other documents necessary or appropriate
in connection with the performance of the duties of the successor Agent under
this Agreement, and (ii) execute and deliver to such successor Agent such
amendments to financing statements, and take such other actions, as may be
necessary or appropriate in connection with the assignment to such successor
Agent of the security interests created hereunder, whereupon such retiring or
removed Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under this
Agreement. After any retiring or removed Agent's resignation or removal
hereunder as the Agent, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to its
benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it under this
Agreement while it was the Agent hereunder.

          9.03  In connection with the release of any Collateral under this
Agreement, the Custodial Agreement Acknowledgement or the Custodial Agreement,
the Agent may conclusively assume that no Default or Event of Default has
occurred and continues unless it has received written notice from the Pledgor or
any Bank to the contrary. The Agent may conclusively rely on each Valuation
Report and the Market Value of the Collateral contained therein, and shall have
no duty or obligation to verify the contents of any Valuation Report (including
the Market Values contained therein) or to independently determine the Market
Value of any Collateral.

                                       17
<PAGE>
 
                                   ARTICLE X

                                 MISCELLANEOUS
                                 -------------

     10.01  Amendments.  No amendment or waiver of any provision of this
            ----------                                                  
Agreement and no consent with respect to any departure by the Pledgor therefrom,
shall be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Agent
and the Pledgor, and then any such waiver or consent shall be effective only in
the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given.

     10.02  Successors and Assigns.  The provisions of this Agreement shall
            ----------------------                                         
be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their
respective successors and assigns, except that the Pledgor may not assign or
transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior
written consent of the Agent.

     10.03  Governing Law and Jurisdiction.
            ------------------------------ 

          (a) THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA WITHOUT REFERENCE TO PRINCIPLES OF
CONFLICTS OF LAWS, EXCEPT AS REQUIRED BY MANDATORY PROVISIONS OF LAW AND TO THE
EXTENT THE VALIDITY OR PERFECTION OF THE LIENS HEREUNDER IN RESPECT OF ANY
COLLATERAL ARE GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF A JURISDICTION OTHER THAN CALIFORNIA.

          (b) ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY
BE BROUGHT IN THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA OR OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA, AND BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS
AGREEMENT, EACH OF THE PLEDGOR, THE AGENT AND THE BANKS CONSENTS, FOR ITSELF AND
IN RESPECT OF ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THOSE COURTS.
EACH OF THE PLEDGOR AND THE AGENT FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ITSELF AND THE BANKS
IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION, INCLUDING ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE
OR BASED ON THE GROUNDS OF FORUM NON CONVENIENS, WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER
                           --------------------                               
HAVE TO THE BRINGING OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN SUCH JURISDICTION IN RESPECT
OF THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY DOCUMENT RELATED HERETO. THE PLEDGOR AND THE AGENT FOR
AND ON BEHALF OF ITSELF AND THE BANKS EACH WAIVES PERSONAL SERVICE OF ANY
SUMMONS, COMPLAINT OR OTHER PROCESS, WHICH MAY BE MADE BY ANY OTHER MEANS
PERMITTED BY CALIFORNIA LAW.

          10.04  Waiver of Jury Trial.  THE PLEDGOR AND THE AGENT FOR AND ON
                 --------------------                                       
BEHALF OF ITSELF AND THE BANKS EACH WAIVES THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO A TRIAL BY
JURY OF ANY CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION BASED UPON OR ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO
THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY, IN ANY
ACTION, PROCEEDING OR OTHER LITIGATION OF ANY TYPE BROUGHT BY ANY OF THE PARTIES
AGAINST ANY OTHER PARTY OR ANY AGENT-RELATED PERSON, PARTICIPANT OR ASSIGNEE,
WHETHER WITH RESPECT TO CONTRACT CLAIMS, TORT CLAIMS, OR OTHERWISE. THE PLEDGOR
AND THE AGENT FOR

                                       18
<PAGE>
 
AND ON BEHALF OF ITSELF AND THE BANKS EACH AGREES THAT ANY SUCH CLAIM OR CAUSE
OF ACTION SHALL BE TRIED BY A COURT TRIAL WITHOUT A JURY. WITHOUT LIMITING THE
FOREGOING, THE PARTIES FURTHER AGREE THAT THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY
JURY IS WAIVED BY OPERATION OF THIS SECTION AS TO ANY ACTION, COUNTERCLAIM OR
OTHER PROCEEDING WHICH SEEKS, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, TO CHALLENGE THE VALIDITY OR
ENFORCEABILITY OF THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY PROVISION HEREOF. THIS WAIVER SHALL
APPLY TO ANY SUBSEQUENT AMENDMENTS, RENEWALS, SUPPLEMENTS OR MODIFICATIONS TO
THIS AGREEMENT.

     10.05  Notices; Written Instructions.
            ----------------------------- 

          (a) All written instructions, notices, requests and other
communications shall be in writing (including, unless the context expressly
otherwise provides, by facsimile transmission, provided that any matter
transmitted by facsimile shall be followed promptly by delivery of a hard copy
original thereof) and mailed, faxed or delivered, to the address or facsimile
number specified for notices below; or to such other address as shall be
designated by any party in a written notice to the other parties.

          (b) All such notices, requests and communications shall, when
transmitted by overnight delivery, or faxed, be effective when delivered for
overnight (next-day) delivery, or transmitted in legible form by facsimile
machine, respectively, or if mailed, upon the third Business Day after the date
deposited into the U.S. mail, or if delivered, upon delivery.

          Address of the Agent:
          -------------------- 

          Bank of America National Trust and
          Savings Association
          1455 Market Street, 12th Floor
          San Francisco, CA 94103
          Attention:  Ivo Bakovic
                      Vice President
                      Agency Management
                      Services #5596
          Facsimile Number: (415) 622-4894

          Address of the Pledgor:
          ---------------------- 

          McKesson Corporation
          One Post Street
          San Francisco, CA 94104
          Attention:  Alan Pearce

          Facsimile:  (415) 983-8464


     10.06  Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of
            ------------                                                  
separate counterparts, each of which, when so executed,

                                       19
<PAGE>
 
shall be deemed an original, and all of said counterparts taken together shall
be deemed to constitute but one and the same instrument.

     10.07  No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies.  No failure to exercise and no delay
            ------------------------------                                      
in exercising, on the part of the Agent, any right, remedy, power or privilege
hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial
exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other
or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or
privilege. The rights and remedies of the parties provided herein are cumulative
and are in addition to, and not exclusive of, any rights or remedies provided by
law.

     10.08  Severability.  The illegality or unenforceability of any provision
            ------------                                                      
of this Agreement or any instrument or agreement required hereunder shall not in
any way affect or impair the legality or enforceability of the remaining
provisions of this Agreement or any instrument or agreement required hereunder.

     10.09  No Third Parties Benefited.  This Agreement is made and entered into
            --------------------------                                          
for the sole protection and legal benefit of the Agent, the Pledgor and the
Banks for which the Agent acts as agent, and their permitted successors and
assigns, and no other person shall be a direct or indirect beneficiary of, or
have any direct or indirect cause of action or claim in connection with, this
Agreement.

     10.10  Entire Agreement.  This Agreement embodies the entire agreement and
            ----------------                                                   
understanding among the Pledgor and the Agent and supersedes all prior or
contemporaneous agreements and understandings of such parties, verbal or
written, relating to the subject matter hereof.


               [Reminder of this page intentionally left blank]

                                       20
<PAGE>
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to
be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the
day and year first written above.


                                   MCKESSON CORPORATION                 
                                                                        
                                       
                                   By: 
                                   Its:
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                   BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST AND   
                                   SAVINGS ASSOCIATION,as Agent         
                                                                        
                                       
                                   By: 
                                   Its: 




                                      S-1
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.28
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>GUARRANTY
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   Exhibit 10.28

                                   GUARANTY


          This GUARANTY is entered into as of March 31, 1995 by MCKESSON
CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation ("GUARANTOR"), in favor of and for the
benefit of BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION, as agent for
and representative of (in such capacity herein called "AGENT") the financial
institutions ("BANKS") party to the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined).

                                   RECITALS

          A.   Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc., an Ontario
corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Guarantor ("MEDIS"), has entered
into that certain Credit Agreement dated as of March 31, 1995 with Guarantor,
the Banks, Chemical Bank, as Co-Agent, Bank of America Canada, as Canadian
Administrative Agent, and Agent (said Credit Agreement, as it may hereafter be
amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, being the "CREDIT
AGREEMENT"; capitalized terms defined therein and not otherwise defined herein
being used herein as therein defined).

          B.   Credit extensions, including Loans and advances in respect of the
Bankers' Acceptance Facility, may be made to Medis under the Credit Agreement,
Medis is an indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company and the Guarantied
Obligations (as hereinafter defined) are being incurred for and will inure to
the benefit of Guarantor (which benefits are hereby acknowledged).

          C.   It is a condition precedent to the making of the initial
extensions of credit under the Credit Agreement that Medis's obligations
thereunder be guarantied by Guarantor.

          D.   Guarantor is willing irrevocably and unconditionally to guaranty
such obligations of Medis.

          NOW, THEREFORE, based upon the foregoing and other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and
in order to induce Banks, the Co-Agent and Agents to enter into the Credit
Agreement and to make the Loans and other extensions of credit thereunder,
Guarantor hereby agrees as follows:


SECTION 1.  DEFINITIONS

     1.1  CERTAIN DEFINED TERMS.  As used in this Guaranty, the following terms
          ---------------------                                                
shall have the following meanings unless the context otherwise requires:

          "GUARANTIED OBLIGATIONS" has the meaning assigned to that term in
     subsection 2.1.

                                       1
<PAGE>
 
          "GUARANTY" means this Guaranty dated as of March 31, 1995, as may be
     amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.

          "PAYMENT IN FULL", "PAID IN FULL" or any similar term means payment in
     full of the Guarantied Obligations including, without limitation, all
     principal, interest, costs, fees and expenses (including, without
     limitation, legal fees and expenses) of Banks, Co-Agent and Agents as
     required under the Loan Documents.

     1.2  INTERPRETATION.
          -------------- 

          (a) References to "Sections" and "subsections" shall be to Sections
     and subsections, respectively, of this Guaranty unless otherwise
     specifically provided.

          (b) In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms,
     conditions and provisions of this Guaranty and the terms, conditions and
     provisions of the Credit Agreement, the terms, conditions and provisions of
     this Guaranty shall prevail.


SECTION 2.  THE GUARANTY

     2.1  GUARANTY OF THE GUARANTIED OBLIGATIONS.  Guarantor hereby irrevocably
          --------------------------------------                               
and unconditionally guaranties, as primary obligor and not merely as surety, the
due and punctual payment in full of all Guarantied Obligations when the same
shall become due, whether at stated maturity, by required prepayment,
declaration, acceleration, demand or otherwise (including amounts that would
become due but for the operation of the automatic stay under Section 362(a) of
the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. (S) 362(a)). The term "GUARANTIED OBLIGATIONS" is
used herein in its most comprehensive sense and includes:

          (a) any and all Obligations of Medis now or hereafter made, incurred
     or created, whether absolute or contingent, liquidated or unliquidated,
     whether due or not due, and however arising under or in connection with the
     Credit Agreement, the Notes and Drafts issued by Medis and the other Loan
     Documents, including those arising under successive borrowing transactions
     under the Credit Agreement which shall either continue the Obligations of
     Medis or from time to time renew them after they have been satisfied; and

          (b) those expenses set forth in Section 2.8 hereof.

     2.2  LIABILITY OF GUARANTOR ABSOLUTE.  Guarantor agrees that its
          -------------------------------                            
obligations hereunder are irrevocable, absolute, independent and unconditional
and shall not be affected by any circumstance which constitutes a legal or
equitable discharge of a guarantor

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
or surety other than indefeasible payment in full of the Guarantied Obligations.
In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof,
Guarantor agrees as follows:

          (a) This Guaranty is a guaranty of payment when due and not of
     collectibility.

          (b) Agent may enforce this Guaranty upon the occurrence of an Event of
     Default under the Credit Agreement notwithstanding the existence of any
     dispute between Banks and any Borrower with respect to the existence of
     such Event of Default.

          (c) The obligations of Guarantor hereunder are independent of the
     obligations of Medis under the Loan Documents and the obligations of any
     other guarantor of the obligations of Medis under the Loan Documents, and a
     separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against Guarantor
     whether or not any action is brought against Medis or any of such other
     guarantors and whether or not Medis is joined in any such action or
     actions.

          (d) Guarantor's payment of a portion, but not all, of the Guarantied
     Obligations shall in no way limit, affect, modify or abridge Guarantor's
     liability for any portion of the Guarantied Obligations which has not been
     paid. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if Agent is awarded
     a judgment in any suit brought to enforce Guarantor's covenant to pay a
     portion of the Guarantied Obligations, such judgment shall not be deemed to
     release Guarantor from its covenant to pay the portion of the Guarantied
     Obligations that is not the subject of such suit.

          (e) Any Agent or any Bank, upon such terms as it deems appropriate,
     without notice or demand and without affecting the validity or
     enforceability of this Guaranty or giving rise to any reduction,
     limitation, impairment, discharge or termination of Guarantor's liability
     hereunder, from time to time may (i) renew, extend, accelerate, increase
     the rate of interest on, or otherwise change the time, place, manner or
     terms of payment of the Guarantied Obligations, (ii) settle, compromise,
     release or discharge, or accept or refuse any offer of performance with
     respect to, or substitutions for, the Guarantied Obligations or any
     agreement relating thereto and/or subordinate the payment of the same to
     the payment of any other obligations; (iii) request and accept other
     guaranties of the Guarantied Obligations and take and hold security for the
     payment of this Guaranty or the Guarantied Obligations; (iv) release,
     surrender, exchange, substitute, compromise, settle, rescind, waive, alter,
     subordinate or modify, with or without consideration, any security for
     payment of the Guarantied Obligations, any other guaranties

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
     of the Guarantied Obligations, or any other obligation of any Person with
     respect to the Guarantied Obligations; (v) enforce and apply any security
     now or hereafter held by or for the benefit of Agent or any Bank in respect
     of this Guaranty or the Guarantied Obligations and direct the order or
     manner of sale thereof, or exercise any other right or remedy that Agents
     or Banks, or any of them, may have against any such security, as Agent in
     its discretion may determine consistent with the Credit Agreement and any
     applicable security agreement, including foreclosure on any such security
     pursuant to one or more judicial or nonjudicial sales, whether or not every
     aspect of any such sale is commercially reasonable, and even though such
     action operates to impair or extinguish any right of reimbursement or
     subrogation or other right or remedy of Guarantor against Medis or any
     security for the Guarantied Obligations; and (vi) exercise any other rights
     available to it under the Loan Documents. This Section 2.2(e) shall not
     modify Section 10.01 of the Credit Agreement.

          (f) This Guaranty and the obligations of Guarantor hereunder shall be
     valid and enforceable and shall not be subject to any reduction,
     limitation, impairment, discharge or termination for any reason (other than
     indefeasible payment in full of the Guarantied Obligations), including
     without limitation the occurrence of any of the following, whether or not
     Guarantor shall have had notice or knowledge of any of them: (i) any
     failure or omission to assert or enforce or agreement or election not to
     assert or enforce, or the stay or enjoining, by order of court, by
     operation of law or otherwise, of the exercise or enforcement of, any claim
     or demand or any right, power or remedy (whether arising under the Loan
     Documents, at law, in equity or otherwise) with respect to the Guarantied
     Obligations or any agreement relating thereto, or with respect to any other
     guaranty of or security for the payment of the Guarantied Obligations; (ii)
     any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of, or any consent to
     departure from, any of the terms or provisions (including without
     limitation provisions relating to events of default) of the Credit
     Agreement, any of the other Loan Documents or any agreement or instrument
     executed pursuant thereto, or of any other guaranty or security for the
     Guarantied Obligations, in each case whether or not in accordance with the
     terms of the Credit Agreement or such Loan Document or any agreement
     relating to such other guaranty or security; (iii) the Guarantied
     Obligations, or any agreement relating thereto, at any time being found to
     be illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect; (iv) the application
     of payments received from any source (other than payments received pursuant
     to the other Loan Documents or from the proceeds of any security for the
     Guarantied Obligations, except to the extent such security also serves as
     collateral

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
     for indebtedness other than the Guarantied Obligations) to the payment of
     indebtedness other than the Guarantied Obligations, even though Agents or
     Banks, or any of them, might have elected to apply such payment to any part
     or all of the Guarantied Obligations; (v) any Bank's or Agent's consent to
     the change, reorganization or termination of the corporate structure or
     existence of Company or any of its Subsidiaries and to any corresponding
     restructuring of the Guarantied Obligations; (vi) any failure to perfect or
     continue perfection of a security interest in any collateral which secures
     any of the Guarantied Obligations; (vii) any defenses, set-offs or
     counterclaims which Medis may allege or assert against any Agent or any
     Bank in respect of the Guarantied Obligations, including but not limited to
     failure of consideration, breach of warranty, payment, statute of frauds,
     statute of limitations, accord and satisfaction and usury; and (viii) any
     other act or thing or omission, or delay to do any other act or thing,
     which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of
     Guarantor as an obligor in respect of the Guarantied Obligations.

     2.3  WAIVERS BY GUARANTOR.  Guarantor hereby waives, for the benefit of
          --------------------                                              
Banks and Agents:

          (a) any right to require any Agent or any Bank, as a condition of
     payment or performance by Guarantor, to (i) proceed against Medis, any
     other guarantor of the Guarantied Obligations or any other Person, (ii)
     proceed against or exhaust any security held from Medis, any other
     guarantor of the Guarantied Obligations or any other Person, (iii) proceed
     against or have resort to any balance of any deposit account or credit on
     the books of any Agent or any Bank in favor of Medis or any other Person,
     or (iv) pursue any other remedy in the power of any Agent or any Bank
     whatsoever;

          (b) any defense arising by reason of the incapacity, lack of authority
     or any disability or other defense of Medis including, without limitation,
     any defense based on or arising out of the lack of validity or the
     unenforceability of the Guarantied Obligations or any agreement or
     instrument relating thereto or by reason of the cessation of the liability
     of Medis from any cause other than indefeasible payment in full of the
     Guarantied Obligations;

          (c) any defense based upon any statute or rule of law which provides
     that the obligation of a surety must be neither larger in amount nor in
     other respects more burdensome than that of the principal;

          (d) any defense based upon any Agent's or any Bank's errors or
     omissions in the administration of the Guarantied Obligations, except
     behavior which amounts to bad faith;

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
          (e) (i) any principles or provisions of law, statutory or otherwise,
     which are or might be in conflict with the terms of this Guaranty and any
     legal or equitable discharge of Guarantor's obligations hereunder, (ii) the
     benefit of any statute of limitations affecting Guarantor's liability
     hereunder or the enforcement hereof, (iii) any rights to set-offs,
     recoupments and counterclaims, and (iv) promptness, diligence and any
     requirement that any Agent or any Bank protect, secure, perfect or insure
     any security interest or lien or any property subject thereto;

          (f) notices, demands, presentments, protests, notices of protest,
     notices of dishonor and notices of any action or inaction, including
     acceptance of this Guaranty, notices of default under the Credit Agreement
     or any agreement or instrument related thereto, notices of any renewal,
     extension or modification of the Guarantied Obligations or any agreement
     related thereto, notices of any extension of credit to Medis and notices of
     any of the matters referred to in subsection 2.2 and any right to consent
     to any thereof; and

          (g) any defenses or benefits that may be derived from or afforded by
     law which limit the liability of or exonerate guarantors or sureties, or
     which may conflict with the terms of this Guaranty, including without
     limitation the provisions of California Civil Code Sections 2809, 2810,
     2819, 2839, 2845, 2846, 2850, 2899 and 3433.

     2.4  PAYMENT BY GUARANTOR; APPLICATION OF PAYMENTS.  Guarantor hereby
          ---------------------------------------------                   
agrees, in furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right
which Agent or any other Person may have at law or in equity against Guarantor
by virtue hereof, that upon the failure of Medis to pay any of the Guarantied
Obligations when and as the same shall become due, whether at stated maturity,
by required prepayment, declaration, acceleration, demand or otherwise
(including amounts that would become due but for the operation of the automatic
stay under Section 362(a) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. (S) 362(a)),
Guarantor will upon demand pay, or cause to be paid, in cash, to Agent for the
ratable benefit of Banks holding the Guarantied Obligations, an amount equal to
the sum of the unpaid principal amount of all Guarantied Obligations then due as
aforesaid, accrued and unpaid interest on such Guarantied Obligations
(including, without limitation, interest which, but for the filing of a petition
in bankruptcy with respect to Medis, would have accrued on such Guarantied
Obligations, whether or not a claim is allowed against Medis for such interest
in any such bankruptcy proceeding) and all other Guarantied Obligations then
owed to Agent and/or Banks as aforesaid. All such payments shall be applied
promptly from time to time by Agent:

                                       6
<PAGE>
 
          First, to the payment of the costs and expenses of any collection or
          -----                                                               
     other realization under this Guaranty, including reasonable compensation to
     Agent and its agents and counsel, and all expenses, liabilities and
     advances made or incurred by Agent in connection therewith;

          Second, to the payment of all other Guarantied Obligations to each
          ------                                                            
     Bank holding Guarantied Obligations its applicable share as provided in the
     Credit Agreement; and

          Third, after payment in full of all Guarantied Obligations, to the
          -----                                                             
     payment to Guarantor, or its successors or assigns, or to whosoever may be
     lawfully entitled to receive the same or as a court of competent
     jurisdiction may direct, of any surplus then remaining from such payments.

     2.5  GUARANTOR'S RIGHTS OF SUBROGATION, CONTRIBUTION, ETC.  Until the
          ----------------------------------------------------            
Guarantied Obligations shall have been indefeasibly paid in full and the Tranche
B Commitments shall have terminated, Guarantor shall withhold exercise of (a)
any claim, right or remedy, direct or indirect, that Guarantor now has or may
hereafter have against Medis or any of its assets in connection with this
Guaranty or the performance by Guarantor of its obligations hereunder, in each
case whether such claim, right or remedy arises in equity, under contract, by
statute (including without limitation under California Civil Code Section 2847,
2848 or 2849), under common law or otherwise and including without limitation
(i) any right of subrogation, reimbursement or indemnification that Guarantor
now has or may hereafter have against Medis, (ii) any right to enforce, or to
participate in, any claim, right or remedy that any Agent or any Bank now has or
may hereafter have against Medis, and (iii) any benefit of, and any right to
participate in, any collateral or security now or hereafter held by any Agent or
any Bank, and (b) any right of contribution Guarantor may have against any other
guarantor of the Guarantied Obligations (including without limitation any such
right of contribution under California Civil Code Section 2848). Guarantor
further agrees that, to the extent the agreement to withhold the exercise of its
rights of subrogation, reimbursement, indemnification and contribution as set
forth herein is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be void or
voidable for any reason, any rights of subrogation, reimbursement or
indemnification Guarantor may have against Medis or against any collateral or
security, and any rights of contribution Guarantor may have against any such
other guarantor, shall be junior and subordinate to any rights any Agent or any
Bank may have against Medis, to all right, title and interest any Agent or any
Bank may have in any such collateral or security, and to any right any Agent or
any Bank may have against such other guarantor. Each Agent, on behalf of Banks,
may use, sell or dispose of any item of collateral or security as it sees fit
without regard to any subrogation rights Guarantor may have, and upon any such
disposition or sale any rights of subrogation

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
against such collateral Guarantor may have shall terminate. If any amount shall
be paid to Guarantor on account of any such subrogation, reimbursement or
indemnification rights at any time when all Guarantied Obligations shall not
have been paid in full, such amount shall be held in trust for Agent on behalf
of Banks and shall forthwith be paid over to Agent for the benefit of Banks to
be credited and applied against the Guarantied Obligations, whether matured or
unmatured, in accordance with the terms hereof.

     2.6  SUBORDINATION OF OTHER OBLIGATIONS.  Any indebtedness of Medis now or
          ----------------------------------                                   
hereafter held by Guarantor is hereby subordinated in right of payment to the
Guarantied Obligations, and any such indebtedness of Medis to Guarantor
collected or received by Guarantor after an Event of Default has occurred and is
continuing shall be held in trust for Agent on behalf of Banks and shall
forthwith be paid over to Agent for the benefit of Banks to be credited and
applied against the Guarantied Obligations but without affecting, impairing or
limiting in any manner the liability of Guarantor under any other provision of
this Guaranty.

     2.7  REAL PROPERTY SECURITY.  Guarantor agrees that, if all or a portion of
          ----------------------                                                
the Guarantied Obligations or any other guaranty of all or a portion of the
Guarantied Obligations are at any time secured by a deed of trust or mortgage
covering interests in real property, Agent or its designee, in its sole
discretion, without notice or demand and without affecting the liability of
Guarantor, may foreclose, pursuant to the terms of the Loan Documents or
otherwise, on any such deed of trust or mortgage and the property described
therein by nonjudicial or other sale. Without limiting any of the waivers
contained elsewhere herein, Guarantor hereby waives any defense to liability
arising by reason of the exercise by Banks or Agent, or any of them, of any
right or remedy contained in any such deed of trust or mortgage or any of the
other Loan Documents. Guarantor waives all rights and defenses arising out of an
election of remedies by Bank or the Agent, even though the election of remedies,
such as a nonjudicial foreclosure with respect to security for a Guaranteed
Obligation, has destroyed the Guarantor's rights of subrogation and
reimbursement against Medis by the operation of Section 580d of the California
Code of Civil Procedure or otherwise.


     2.8  EXPENSES.  Guarantor agrees to pay, or cause to be paid, on demand,
          --------                                                           
and to save Agent and Banks harmless against liability for, any and all
reasonable costs and expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel and
allocated costs of internal counsel) incurred or expended by Agent or any Bank
in connection with the enforcement of or preservation of any rights under this
Guaranty.

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
     2.9  CONTINUING GUARANTY; TERMINATION OF GUARANTY.  This Guaranty is a
          --------------------------------------------                     
continuing guaranty and shall remain in effect until all of the Guarantied
Obligations shall have been indefeasibly paid in full and the Tranche B
Commitments shall have terminated. Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives any right
(including without limitation any such right arising under California Civil Code
Section 2815) to revoke this Guaranty as to future transactions giving rise to
any Guarantied Obligations.

     2.10 AUTHORITY OF GUARANTOR OR MEDIS.  It is not necessary for any Bank or
          -------------------------------                                      
any Agent to inquire into the capacity or powers of Medis or the officers,
directors or any agents acting or purporting to act on behalf of any of them.

     2.11 FINANCIAL CONDITION OF MEDIS.  Any extensions of credit may be granted
          ----------------------------                                          
to Medis or continued from time to time without notice to or authorization from
Guarantor regardless of the financial or other condition of Medis at the time of
any such grant or continuation. No Bank or Agent shall have any obligation to
disclose or discuss with Guarantor their assessment, or Guarantor's assessment,
of the financial condition of Medis. Guarantor has adequate means to obtain
information from Medis on a continuing basis concerning the financial condition
of Medis and its ability to perform its obligations under the Loan Documents,
and Guarantor assumes the responsibility for being and keeping informed of the
financial condition of Medis and of all circumstances bearing upon the risk of
nonpayment of the Guarantied Obligations. Guarantor hereby waives and
relinquishes any duty on the part of any Agent or any Bank to disclose any
matter, fact or thing relating to the business, operations or conditions of
Medis now known or hereafter known by any Agent or any Bank.

     2.12 RIGHTS CUMULATIVE.  The rights, powers and remedies given to Banks and
          -----------------                                                     
Agents by this Guaranty are cumulative and shall be in addition to and
independent of all rights, powers and remedies given to any Bank and any Agent
by virtue of any statute or rule of law or in any of the other Loan Documents or
any agreement between Guarantor and any Bank and/or any Agent or between Medis
and any Bank and/or any Agent. Any forbearance or failure to exercise, and any
delay by any Bank or any Agent in exercising, any right, power or remedy
hereunder shall not impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be
a waiver thereof, nor shall it preclude the further exercise of any such right,
power or remedy.

     2.13 BANKRUPTCY; POST-PETITION INTEREST; REINSTATEMENT OF GUARANTY.  (a)
          -------------------------------------------------------------       
So long as any Guarantied Obligations remain outstanding, Guarantor shall not,
without the prior written consent of Agent in accordance with the terms of the
Credit Agreement, commence or join with any other Person in commencing any
bankruptcy, reorganization or insolvency proceedings of or against Medis. The
obligations of Guarantor under this Guaranty

                                       9
<PAGE>
 
shall not be reduced, limited, impaired, discharged, deferred, suspended or
terminated by any proceeding, voluntary or involuntary, involving the
bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership, reorganization, liquidation or arrangement
of Medis or by any defense which Medis may have by reason of the order, decree
or decision of any court or administrative body resulting from any such
proceeding.

          (b) Guarantor acknowledges and agrees that any interest on any
portion of the Guarantied Obligations which accrues after the commencement of
any proceeding referred to in clause (a) above (or, if interest on any portion
of the Guarantied Obligations ceases to accrue by operation of law by reason of
the commencement of said proceeding, such interest as would have accrued on such
portion of the Guarantied Obligations if said proceedings had not been
commenced) shall be included in the Guarantied Obligations because it is the
intention of Guarantor and Agent that the Guarantied Obligations which are
guarantied by Guarantor pursuant to this Guaranty should be determined without
regard to any rule of law or order which may relieve Medis of any portion of
such Guarantied Obligations. Guarantor will permit any trustee in bankruptcy,
receiver, debtor in possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar
person to pay Agent, or allow the claim of Agent in respect of, any such
interest accruing after the date on which such proceeding is commenced.

          (c) In the event that all or any portion of the Guarantied
Obligations are paid by Medis, the obligations of Guarantor hereunder shall
continue and remain in full force and effect or be reinstated, as the case may
be, in the event that all or any part of such payment(s) are rescinded or
recovered directly or indirectly from any Agent or any Bank as a preference,
fraudulent transfer or otherwise, and any such payments which are so rescinded
or recovered shall constitute Guarantied Obligations for all purposes under this
Guaranty.


SECTION 3.  MISCELLANEOUS

     3.1  SURVIVAL OF WARRANTIES.  All agreements, representations and
          ----------------------                                      
warranties made herein shall survive the execution and delivery of this Guaranty
and the other Loan Documents and any increase in the Tranche B Commitments under
the Credit Agreement.

     3.2  NOTICES.  Any communications between Agent and Guarantor and any
          -------                                                         
notices or requests provided herein to be given may be given by mailing the
same, postage prepaid, or by telex, facsimile transmission or cable to each such
party at its address set forth in the Credit Agreement, on the signature pages
hereof or to such other addresses as each such party may in writing hereafter
indicate. Any notice, request or demand to or upon any

                                       10
<PAGE>
 
Agent or any Bank or Guarantor shall not be effective until received.

     3.3  SEVERABILITY.  In case any provision in or obligation under this
          ------------                                                    
Guaranty shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, the
validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions or
obligations, or of such provision or obligation in any other jurisdiction, shall
not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.

     3.4  AMENDMENTS AND WAIVERS.  No amendment, modification, termination or
          ----------------------                                             
waiver of any provision of this Guaranty, or consent to any departure by
Guarantor therefrom, shall in any event be effective without the written
concurrence of Agent and Banks as provided under Section 10.01 of the Credit
Agreement. Any waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific
instance and for the specific purpose for which it was given.

     3.5  HEADINGS.  Section and subsection headings in this Guaranty are
          --------                                                       
included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a
part of this Guaranty for any other purpose or be given any substantive effect.

     3.6  SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.  This Guaranty is a continuing guaranty and
          ----------------------                                             
shall be binding upon Guarantor and its successors and assigns. This Guaranty
shall inure to the benefit of Banks, Agents and their respective successors and
assigns. Guarantor shall not assign this Guaranty or any of the rights or
obligations of Guarantor hereunder without the prior written consent of all
Banks. Any Bank may, without notice or consent, in connection with any
assignment of its interests in the Commitments, Loans or Bankers' Acceptance
Facility pursuant to the Credit Agreement assign its interest in this Guaranty
in whole or in part. The terms and provisions of this Guaranty shall inure to
the benefit of any transferee or assignee of any Guarantied Obligation, and in
the event of such transfer or assignment the rights and privileges herein
conferred upon Banks and Agents shall automatically extend to and be vested in
such transferee or assignee, all subject to the terms and conditions hereof.

     3.7  GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION.  (A)  THIS GUARANTY SHALL BE GOVERNED
          ------------------------------                                       
BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA WITHOUT
REFERENCE TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.

          (B) ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO THIS GUARANTY MAY
BE BROUGHT IN THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA OR OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA, AND BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS
GUARANTY, THE GUARANTOR CONSENTS FOR ITSELF AND IN RESPECT OF ITS PROPERTY, TO
THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THOSE COURTS. EACH OF THE GUARANTOR, THE
AGENTS AND THE BANKS IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY

                                       11
<PAGE>
 
OBJECTION, INCLUDING ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OR BASED ON THE
GROUNDS OF FORUM NON CONVENIENS, WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE
           --------------------                                           
BRINGING OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN SUCH JURISDICTION IN RESPECT OF THIS
GUARANTY OR ANY DOCUMENT RELATED HERETO. THE GUARANTOR, THE AGENTS AND THE BANKS
EACH WAIVE PERSONAL SERVICE OF ANY SUMMONS, COMPLAINT OR OTHER PROCESS, WHICH
MAY BE MADE BY ANY OTHER MEANS PERMITTED BY CALIFORNIA LAW.

     3.8  WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.  THE GUARANTOR, THE BANKS AND THE AGENTS EACH
          --------------------                                               
WAIVE THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO A TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION
BASED UPON OR ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS GUARANTY, IN ANY ACTION,
PROCEEDING OR OTHER LITIGATION OF ANY TYPE BROUGHT BY ANY OF THE PARTIES AGAINST
ANY OTHER PARTY, PARTICIPANT OR ASSIGNEE, BASED UPON OR ARISING OUT OF THIS
GUARANTY, WHETHER WITH RESPECT TO CONTRACT CLAIMS, TORT CLAIMS, OR OTHERWISE.
THE GUARANTOR, THE BANKS AND THE AGENTS EACH AGREE THAT ANY SUCH CLAIM OR CAUSE
OF ACTION SHALL BE TRIED BY A COURT TRIAL WITHOUT A JURY. WITHOUT LIMITING THE
FOREGOING, THE PARTIES FURTHER AGREE THAT THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY
JURY IS WAIVED BY OPERATION OF THIS SECTION AS TO ANY ACTION, COUNTERCLAIM OR
OTHER PROCEEDING WHICH SEEKS, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, TO CHALLENGE THE VALIDITY OR
ENFORCEABILITY OF THIS GUARANTY OR PROVISION HEREOF. THIS WAIVER SHALL APPLY TO
ANY SUBSEQUENT AMENDMENTS, RENEWALS, SUPPLEMENTS OR MODIFICATIONS TO THIS
GUARANTY. Guarantor and, by its acceptance of the benefits hereof, Agent each
(i) acknowledges that this waiver is a material inducement for Guarantor and
Agents and Banks to enter into a business relationship, that Guarantor and Agent
have already relied on this waiver in entering into this Guaranty or accepting
the benefits thereof, as the case may be, and that each will continue to rely on
this waiver in their related future dealings and (ii) further warrants and
represents that each has reviewed this waiver with its legal counsel, and that
each knowingly and voluntarily waives its jury trial rights following
consultation with legal counsel. THIS WAIVER IS IRREVOCABLE, MEANING THAT IT MAY
NOT BE MODIFIED ORALLY, AND THIS WAIVER SHALL APPLY TO ANY SUBSEQUENT
AMENDMENTS, RENEWALS, SUPPLEMENTS OR MODIFICATIONS TO THIS GUARANTY. In the
event of litigation, this Guaranty may be filed as a written consent to a trial
by the court.

     3.9  NO OTHER WRITING.  This writing is intended by Guarantor and Agent as
          ----------------                                                     
the final expression of this Guaranty and is also intended as a complete and
exclusive statement of the terms of their agreement with respect to the matters
covered hereby. No course of dealing, course of performance or trade usage, and
no parol evidence of any nature, shall be used to supplement or modify any terms
of this Guaranty. There are no conditions to the full effectiveness of this
Guaranty.

     3.10 FURTHER ASSURANCES.  At any time or from time to time, upon the
          ------------------                                             
request of Agent or Majority Banks, Guarantor shall

                                       12
<PAGE>
 
execute and deliver such further documents and do such other acts and things as
Agent or Majority Banks may reasonably request in order to effect fully the
purposes of this Guaranty.


                 [Remainder of page intentionally left blank]

                                       13
<PAGE>
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Guarantor has caused this Guaranty to be duly
executed and delivered by its officer thereunto duly authorized as of the date
first written above.

                                       MCKESSON CORPORATION
                                   
                                       
                                          
                                       By -----------------------------
                                             
                                   
                                             
                                       Title --------------------------



Acknowledged by:

BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
  AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION, AS AGENT


   
By --------------------------

      
Title -----------------------




                                      S-1
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                      EXHIBIT 11
                      McKESSON CORPORATION - CONSOLIDATED
                    COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
                       FOR THE FIVE YEARS ENDED MARCH 31
                    (in thousands except per share amounts)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
 
                                                                1995        1994        1993          1992         1991
                                                             ----------  ----------  ----------    ----------    ---------
<S>                                                          <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>             <C>
FULLY DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
Income (loss) after taxes from continuing operations         $(193,174)   $126,428    $ 95,070   $  22,077       $ 85,016
Dividend requirements - convertible preferred stocks                 -           -           -      (7,081)/(1)/        -
Interest charges on convertible debentures - net of tax              -          18       1,352           - /(2)/    3,391
Contribution adjustment - Series B ESOP convertible
  preferred stock/(3)/                                          (1,836)     (3,706)     (3,758)          - /(2)/   (3,711)
                                                             ---------    --------    --------   ---------        -------
                                                              (195,010)    122,740      92,664      14,996         84,696
Discontinued operations                                         21,028      30,628      19,665      10,256         10,311
Discontinued operations - gain on sale of PCS                  576,656           -           -           -              -
Extraordinary item                                                   -      (4,186)          -           -              -
Cumulative effects of accounting changes                             -     (16,660)          -    (110,500)             -
                                                             ---------    --------    --------   ---------        -------
     Total                                                   $ 402,674    $132,522    $112,329   $ (85,248)       $95,007
                                                             =========    ========    ========   =========        =======
 
 
Fully diluted shares
  Common shares outstanding/(4)/                                43,568      40,943      40,025      38,776         38,544
  Convertible securities - dilutive                              1,882       3,160       4,783           -/(2)/     6,060
                                                             ---------    --------    --------   ---------        -------
     Total                                                      45,450      44,103      44,808      38,776         44,604
                                                             =========    ========    ========   =========        =======
 
 
 
Fully diluted earnings per share
  Continuing operations                                      $   (4.29)   $   2.78    $   2.07   $     .39        $  1.90
  Discontinued operations                                          .46         .70         .44         .26            .23
  Discontinued operations - gain on sale of PCS                  12.69           -           -           -              -
  Extraordinary item                                                 -        (.10)          -           -              -
  Cumulative effects of accounting changes                           -        (.38)          -       (2.85)             -
                                                             ---------    --------    --------   ---------        -------
     Total                                                   $    8.86    $   3.00    $   2.51   $   (2.20)       $  2.13
                                                             =========    ========    ========   =========        =======
 
 
PRIMARY EARNINGS PER SHARE
Income (loss)  after taxes from continuing operations        $(193,174)   $126,428    $ 95,070   $  22,077        $85,016 
Dividend requirements - convertible preferred stocks/(1)/       (3,501)     (7,052)     (7,010)     (7,081)        (6,973)
                                                             ---------    --------    --------   ---------        ------- 
                                                              (196,675)    119,376      88,060      14,996         78,043 
Discontinued operations                                         21,028      30,628      19,665      10,256         10,311 
Discontinued operations - gain on sale of PCS                  576,656           -           -           -              - 
Extraordinary item                                                   -      (4,186)          -           -              - 
Cumulative effects of accounting changes                             -     (16,660)          -    (110,500)             - 
                                                             ---------    --------    --------   ---------        ------- 
     Total                                                   $ 401,009    $129,158    $107,725   $ (85,248)       $88,354 
                                                             =========    ========    ========   =========        ======= 
                                                                                                                          
Common shares outstanding/(4)/                                  43,568      40,789      40,025      38,776         38,539 
                                                             =========    ========    ========   =========        ======= 
                                                                                                                          
Primary earnings per share                                                                                                
  Continuing operations                                      $   (4.51)   $   2.93    $   2.20   $     .39        $  2.02 
  Discontinued operations                                          .48         .75         .49         .26            .27 
  Discontinued operations - gain on sale of PCS                  13.23           -           -           -              - 
  Extraordinary item                                                 -        (.10)          -           -              - 
  Cumulative effects of accounting changes                           -        (.41)          -       (2.85)             - 
                                                             ---------    --------    --------   ---------        ------- 
     Total                                                   $    9.20    $   3.17    $   2.69   $   (2.20)       $  2.29 
                                                             =========    ========    ========   =========        =======  
</TABLE> 
- -----------------------------------------------------------
(1)  Net of certain related tax benefits.
(2)  1992 fully diluted earnings per share computation excludes the effect of
     convertible securities which were anti-dilutive.
(3)  Represents the assumed additional ESOP contribution expense that the 
     Company would have incurred if the Series B ESOP convertible preferred 
     stock had been converted at the beginning of the period presented.
(4)  Common shares outstanding have been computed by adding the monthly average
     (beginning of the month plus end of the month divided by 2), dividing the
     aggregate by 12 and adjusting this total for dilutive stock options using
     the treasury stock method.


                                      21
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13
<SEQUENCE>11
<DESCRIPTION>1995 ANNUAL REPORT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                      EXHIBIT 13



                               1995 Annual Report

                              to Security Holders

                           Pursuant to Rule 14a-3(b)




                                      22
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>12
<DESCRIPTION>LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                      EXHIBIT 21



                         SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT



     There is no parent of the Company.  The following is a listing of the
significant subsidiaries of the Company.

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                         Jurisdiction of
                                                           Organization
                                                         ---------------
<S>                                                      <C> 

  Armor All Products Corporation......................      Delaware
  McKesson Water Products Company.....................      California
  Millbrook Distribution Services Co. ................      Indiana
  Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc. ......      Canada
</TABLE> 


                                      23
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>13
<DESCRIPTION>AUDITORS' CONSENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                      EXHIBIT 23



                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT



We consent to the incorporation by reference in McKesson Corporation
Registration Statement No. 33-86536 on Form S-8 of our report dated May 12, 1995
which expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph
relating to the Corporation's change in its method of accounting for
postemployment benefits and our report dated May 12, 1995, incorporated by
reference in and appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of McKesson
Corporation, respectively, for the year ended March 31, 1995.


/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
San Francisco, California
June 9, 1995

                                      24

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>14
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>
 
<ARTICLE> 5
<CIK> 0000927653
<NAME> MCKESSON
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          MAR-31-1995
<PERIOD-START>                             APR-01-1994
<PERIOD-END>                               MAR-31-1995
<CASH>                                         385,400
<SECURITIES>                                   307,300
<RECEIVABLES>                                  834,600
<ALLOWANCES>                                  (56,000)
<INVENTORY>                                  1,160,200
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                             2,699,400
<PP&E>                                         763,100
<DEPRECIATION>                               (396,800)
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               3,479,200
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                        1,738,200
<BONDS>                                        458,800
<COMMON>                                           400
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<OTHER-SE>                                   1,013,100
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 3,479,200
<SALES>                                     13,189,100
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                            13,189,100
<CGS>                                       12,095,200
<TOTAL-COSTS>                               12,095,200
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                     0
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                49,500
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              46,000
<INCOME-PRETAX>                               (70,700)
<INCOME-TAX>                                 (111,500)
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                          (193,200)
<DISCONTINUED>                                 597,700
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                   404,500
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     9.20
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     8.86
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</IMS-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
