AD-A221  452 


* 


REPORT  OF  SURVEY  CONDUCTED  AT 

HUGHES  AIRCRAFT  COMPANY 
MISSILE  SYSTEMS  GROUP 

TUCSON,  ARIZONA 

AUGUST  1988 


DTIC 


j  RlTTPISUnOr?  STATEMENT  A 

|  Appro  red  fcr  oublic  re  lea** 


90  04  28  0^0 


DoD  4245.7-M 

TRANSITION  FROM  DEVELOPMENT  TO  PRODUCTION 

CRITICAL  PATH  TEMPLATES 


REPORT  DOCUMENTATION  PAGE 


Form  Approved 
0 MB  No.  0704-0188 


Public  reporting  burden  for  this  collection  of  information  ■*  estimated  to  average  1  hour  per  response,  including  the  time  for  reviewing  instructions,  searching  cutting  data  sources, 
gathering  and  maintaining  the  data  needed,  and  completing  and  reviewing  the  collection  of  information.  Send  comments  regarding  this  burden  estimate  or  any  other  asoect  of  this 
collection  of  information,  including  suggestions  for  reducing  this  burden,  to  Washington  neadouarters  Services.  Directorate  for  information  Operations  and  heports,  1215  Jefferson 
Davis  Highway,  Suite  1204.  Arlington.  VA  22202-4302.  and  to  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget.  Paperwork  deduction  Project  (0704-0188),  Washington,  DC  20503. 


1.  AGENCY  USE  ONLY  (Leave  blank) 


2.  REPORT  DATE 

Aug  88 


4.  TITLE  AND  SUBTITLE 

Best  Manufacturing  Practices  Survey  Conducted  at 
Hughes  Aircraft  Company  Missile  Systems  Group 
Tucson,  AZ 


6.  AUTHOR(S) 

Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Navy  (RDA) 
Best  Manufacturing  Practices  Program 


7.  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION  NAME(S)  AND  AOORESS(ES) 
Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Navy 
(Research,  Development  &  Acquisition) 

Product  Integrity  Directorate 
Washington,  D.C.  ;',0  C'  ~  ':5c 


3.  REPORT  TYPE  AND  DATES  COVERED 

BMP  Report  Aug  88 


5.  FUNDING  NUMBERS 


8.  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION 
REPORT  NUMBER 


9.  SPONSORING  /MONITORING  AGENCY  NAME(S)  AND  ADDRESS(ES) 


10.  SPONSORING/MONITORING 
AGENCY  REPORT  NUMBER 


Same  as  Number  7 . 


12a.  DISTRIBUTION /AVAILABILITY  STATEMENT 


12b.  DISTRIBUTION  CODE 


13.  ABSTRACT  (Maximum  200  words) 

...  7htpurpOSe  of  the  Best  Manufacturing  Practices  (BMP)  survey  conducted  at 
dns  facility  was  to  identify  their  best  practices,  review  manufacturing  problems  L 
document  the  results.  The  intent  is  to  extend  the  use  of  progressive  m^agTmm 
echniques  as  well  as  high  technology  equipment  and  processes  throughouf  the 
U.S.  industrial  base.  The  actual  exchange  of  detailed  data  will  be  between 
ontractors  at  their  discretion.  A  company  point  of  contact  is  listed  in  the  report 

in  a  Vf  i?tCnt  ofuthe,BMP  Program  is  to  use  this  documentation  as  the  initial  step 
in  a  voluntary  technology  sharing  process  among  the  industry.  P 


14.  SUBJECT  TERMS  ^ 

- 

17.  security  classification 

18.  SECURITY  CLASSIFICATION 

19.  SECURITY  CLASSIFICATION 

OF  REPORT 

OF  THIS  PAGE 

OF  ABSTRACT 

UNCLASSIFIED 

UNCLASSIFIED 

UNCLASSIFIED 

15.  NUMBER  OF  PAGES 

it 


16.  PRICE  CODE 


20.  LIMITATION  OF  ABSTRACT 


Standard  Form  298  (Rev  2-89) 

(•rntneM  by  ANSI  Std  Z3M8 


CONTENTS 


1.  INTRODUCTION .  1 

1.1  SCOPE  .  1 

1.2  REVIEW  PROCESS  .  1 

1.3  BMP  REVIEW  TEAM .  2 


2.  BEST  PRACTICES  .  3 

2.1  DESIGN 

DESIGN  POLICY 


Design  for  Standardization  and  Assembly 

Engineering  Information  Database  . 

Technical  Symposia  . 

"Lessons  Learned"  Feedback  System  ... 
Engineering  Standards  and  Procedures  . 
DESIGN  REVIEW 


Design  Review  Coordinator  .  5 

COMPUTER-AIDED  DESIGN 

Computer  Aided  Engineering  and  Design  .  5 

2.2  TEST 

INTEGRATED  TEST 

Design  Testability  Assessment  .  6 

2.3  PRODUCTION 

MANUFACTURING  PLAN 

Universal  Standard  for  Magnifying  Power  .  6 

PIECE  PART  CONTROL 

Edge  Bar  Coding  of  Circuit  Boards  .  7 

DEFECT  CONTROL 

Production  Quality  Indicators  .  7 

Corrective  Action  Boards  .  7 

Scrap,  Rework,  and  Repair  (SRR)  Reduction  System  .  7 

SPECIAL  TEST  EQUIPMENT 

Optical  Augmented  Semi-automatic  Inspection  System  (OASIP'/Optical 

Semi-automatic  Inspection  (OSI)  .  8 

COMPUTER  AIDED  MANUFACTURING 

Computer  Integrated  Manufacturing  .  8 

Automated  Hybrid  Production  Equipment  .  9 


I 


co  oo  •<*  ^  T 


CONTENTS  (Continued) 


2.4  FACILITIES 

MODERNIZATION 

Central  Stores  .  10 

Engineering  Analysis  Laboratory  .  1 1 

2.5  LOGISTICS 

TRAINING  MATERIALS  AND  EQUIPMENT 

Personnel  Development  .  1 1 

2.6  MANAGEMENT 

MANUFACTURING  STRATEGY 

Planning  Packaging  .  12 

PERSONNEL  REQUIREMENTS 

Career  Enrichment  Program  .  1 2 


3.  PROBLEM  AREAS .  13 

3.1  DESIGN 

DESIGN  POLICY 

Incorporation  of  Military  Specs  &  Standards  into  Corp.  Databases  .  13 

Availability  of  MIL-SPECS  on  Electronic  Media  .  1 3 

3.2  PRODUCTION 

MANUFACTURING  PLAN 

Inspection  to  Specific  Military  Standards  .  13 


4.  SUMMARY  .  15 


/ 


STATEMENT  "A"  per  Adrienne  Gould 
Office  of  the  Assistant  Sec.  of  Navy 
Attn:  EDA-PI ,  Washington,  DC  20360-5000 
TELECON  4/27/90  VG 


Vu-i"  'O’ 

NTIS  cfc-*, 

our  I* 

red 

JuStlt  iC  J  liu'  ■  _ 

q 

□ 

By 

1  Distribution  ( 

1 _ 

A'-  1  ■ 

•  les 

D‘-»  ..,,,1 

of 

V(  . 

1 

SECTION  1 


INTRODUCTION 


1.1  SCOPE 

The  purpose  of  the  Best  Manufacturing  Practices  (BMP)  review  conducted  at 
Hughes  Aircraft  Company,  Missile  Systems  Group  (MSG)  was  to  identify  best  practices, 
review  manufacturing  problems,  and  document  the  results.  The  intent  is  to  extend  the  use 
of  high  technology  equipment  and  processes  throughout  industry.  The  ultimate  goal  is  to 
strengthen  the  U.S.  industrial  base,  solve  manufacturing  problems,  improve  quality  and 
reliability,  and  reduce  the  cost  of  defense  systems. 

To  accomplish  this,  a  team  of  DoD  engineers  reviewed  Hughes  MSG  in  Tucson, 
Arizona  to  identify  the  most  advanced  manufacturing  processes  and  techniques  used  in 
that  facility.  Manufacturing  problems  that  had  the  potential  of  being  industry  wide 
problems  were  also  reviewed  and  documented  for  further  investigation  in  future  BMP 
reviews.  Demonstrated  industry  wide  problems  are  submitted  to  the  Navy’s  Electronics 
Manufacturing  Productivity  Facility  (EMPF)  for  investigation  and  resolution. 

The  review  was  conducted  on  8-11  August  1988  by  a  team  of  DoD  personnel 
identified  on  page  2  of  this  report.  Hughes  MSG  is  primarily  engaged  in  design, 
development,  and  production  of  advanced  tactical  missile  systems. 

Tire  results  of  BMP  reviews  are  entered  into  a  data  base  to  track  best  practices  and 
manufacturing  problems.  The  information  gathered  is  available  for  dissemination  through 
an  easily  accessible  central  computer.  The  actual  exchange  of  detailed  data  will  be 
between  contractors  at  their  discretion. 

The  results  of  this  review  should  not  be  used  to  rate  Hughes  MSG  among  other 
defense  electronics  contractors.  A  contractor’s  willingness  to  participate  in  the  BMP 
program  and  the  results  of  a  survey  have  no  bearing  on  one  contractor’s  performance  over 
another’s.  The  documentation  in  this  report  and  other  BMP  reports  is  not  intended  to  be 
all  inclusive  of  a  contractor’s  best  practices  or  problems.  Only  selected  non-proprietary 
practices  are  reviewed  and  documented  by  the  BMP  survey  team. 

1.2  REVIEW  PROCESS 

This  review  was  performed  under  the  general  survey  guidelines  established  by  the 
Department  of  the  Navy.  The  review  concentrated  on  the  functional  areas  of  design,  test, 
production,  facilities,  logistics,  management,  and  transition  planning.  The  team  evaluated 
Hughes  MSG  policy,  practices,  and  strategy  in  these  areas.  Furthermore,  individual 
practices  reviewed  were  categorized  as  they  relate  to  the  critical  path  templates  of  the 
DoD  4245 ,7-M,  "Transition  From  Development  To  Production."  Hughes  MSG  identified 
potential  best  practices  and  potential  industry  wide  problems.  These  practices  and 
problems  and  other  areas  of  interest  identified  were  discussed,  reviewed,  and  documented 
for  dissemination  throughout  the  U.S.  industrial  base. 


1 


The  format  for  this  survey  consisted  of  formal  briefings  and  discussions  on  best 
practices  and  problems.  Time  was  spent  on  the  factory  floor  reviewing  practices, 
processes,  and  equipment.  In-depth  discussions  were  conducted  to  better  understand  and 
document  the  practices  and  problems  identified. 

1.3  BMP  REVIEW  TEAM 


Team  Member 

Alan  Criswell 

(215)  897-6684 


Ed  Turissini 

(317)  353-7965 


Agency 

Naval  Industrial  Resources 
Support  Activity 
Philadelphia,  PA 

Naval  Avionics  Center 
Indianapolis,  IN 


John  Wiegand  Naval  Weapons  Support  Center 

(812)854-3240  Crane,  IN 


Dave  Zeph  Naval  Avionics  Center 

(317)  353-7961  Indianapolis,  IN 


Steve  Rapp  Naval  Weapons  Support  Center 

(812)854-1694  Crane,  IN 


Gretchen  Cooper  Naval  Weapons  Support  Center 

(812)854-1854  Crane,  IN 


CDR  Mark  Cooper  NAVSEA  DET  519 
(805)  756-257 1  Long  Beach,  CA 


Pat  Reaves  Naval  Ocean  Systems  Center 

(619)553-5381  San  Diego,  CA 


Steve  Linder  Office  of  the  Assistant 

(202)  692- 1146  Secretary  of  the  Navy  (S&L) 

(RM&QA-PA) 

Washington,  DC 


CDR  Rick  Purcell  Office  of  the  Assistant 
(202)  692-3422  Secretary  of  the  Navy  (S&L) 

(RM&QA-PI) 

Washington,  DC 


Larry  Halbig  Naval  Avionics  Center 

(317)  353-7075  Indianapolis, IN 


Role 

Team  Chairman 


Team  Leader 

Design/Test 


Team  Leader 
Production/Facilities 


Team  Leader 
Management/Logistics 


2 


SECTION  2 


BEST  PRACTICES 


The  practices  listed  in  tliis  section  are  those  identified  by  the  BMP  survey  team  as 
having  the  potential  of  being  among  the  best  in  the  electronics  industry. 

2.1  DESIGN 

DESIGN  POLICY 

Design  for  Standardization  and  Assembly 

Policies  and  practices  at  Hughes  reflect  the  importance  of  designing  for 
manufacturability  as  an  integral  part  of  the  design  process.  Hughes  has  established 
policies  for  cost  reduction  and  product  improvement  which  stress  design  standardization 
to  establish  uniformity  through  standardization  components  and  hardware.  These  goals 
are  accomplished  by  several  means,  including  the  following: 

Manufacturing  personnel  become  involved  in  the  design  activity  as  early  as  the 
conceptual  stage. 

Manufacturing  provides  continually  enhanced  and  upgraded  suggestions  for  the 
design  engineering  manuals. 

Manufacturing  has  developed  training  programs  for  the  design  activity  on  subjects 
such  as  electro-mechanical  assembly,  through-hole  printed  wiring  board  assembly, 
high-speed  through-hole  PWB  assembly,  and  surface  mount  PWB  assembly. 

Engineering  Information  Database 

Hughes  Aircraft’s  Tracked  Requirements,  Audits  and  Feedback  for  Information 
Control  (TRAFFIC)  program  is  a  valuable  teclmical  information  resource.  TRAFFIC  is  a 
database  containing  : 

Engineering  and  manufacturing  standards 

Contractual  requirements  applicable  to  various  projects 

Exceptions  to  contractual  requirements 

Military  specifications 

Configuration  management  data 

Transition  from  Development  to  Production  Templates 

Tliis  information,  including  graphics  data,  is  available  on-line  at  Hughes  MSG 
tlirough  personal  computers  using  high-resolution  screens  for  the  graphics.  The 
infonnation  can  be  searched  for  key  words  or  plirases,  lists  can  be  created,  and  hard  copy 
made.  This  on-line  data  will  eventually  replace  all  printed  copies  of  manuals,  standards, 
and  procedures  at  MSG.  The  system  will  ensure  the  latest  infonnation  is  available  to  a 
wide  variety  of  company  personnel  and  reduce  the  time  spent  by  engineering  and 
production  personnel  searching  for  data.  The  system  is  versatile,  user  friendly,  and 
should  significantly  improve  communications  within  MSG. 


3 


Technical  Symposia 


Hughes  Aircraft  holds  technical  symposia  for  its  employees.  Management  picks 
topics  it  wishes  to  stress.  Outside  speakers  are  invited  to  augument  Hughes  personnel. 
Presentations  are  documented  and  published  in  professional  quality  proceedings. 
Speakers  are  recognized  by  the  inclusion  of  their  career  biographies  and  pictures  in  the 
proceedings.  This  will  accomplish  the  following: 

Signal  employees  on  topics  of  prime  interest  to  management. 

Imply  corporate  policy  in  the  selected  area. 

Cross-pollinate  employees  in  different  management  units  by  the  exchange  of 
technical  approaches,  views,  philosophy,  etc. 

Identify  experts  who  could  be  contacted  by  other  employees  for  advice  and 
assistance. 

Boost  attitudes  of  professionalism  among  technical  employees. 

Recognize  outstanding  contributors. 

lessons  Learned"  Feedback  System 

Corporate  policies  and  practices  at  Hughes  MSG  are  sensitive  to  the  lessons  learned 
on  past  programs.  This  is  made  possible  by  a  formal  lessons  learned  feedback  procedure. 

Manufacturing  identifies  production  problems  through  the  entire  life  cycle  of  a 
product  (1)  through  intimate  manufacturing  involvement  in  the  design  process,  (2)  during 
manufacture  of  proof-of-manufacturing  models,  (3)  during  first  article  reviews, 

(4)  through  trouble  and  failure  reports,  and  (5)  through  inspection  records  at  product 
quality  inspection  points. 

The  manufacturing  corrective  action  board  gathers  and  passes  the  information  to  the 
Design  Process  Corrective  Action  Board  (DPCAB),  which  is  the  focal  point  for 
improving  design  processes.  It  is  chaired  by  the  vice  president  for  engineering  and  its 
members  include  senior  manufacturing  and  design  engineers. 

The  DPCAB  ensures  that  lessons  learned  are  incorporated  into  future  designs  by 
(1)  directing  changes  to  design  process  practices  and  procedures,  (2)  directing  changes  to 
company  standards,  (3)  issuing  a  lessons  learned  bulletin,  and  (4)  initiating  needed 
training  through  the  Engineer  Training  Committee. 

Engineering  Standards  and  Procedures 

Hughes  MSG  has  prepared  an  extensive  series  of  engineering  standards  and 
procedures  manuals  which  cover  topics  such  as: 

Standard  Parts 

Design  for  Producibility 

Design  for  Testability 

Configuration  Management 

Configuration  Control 

Engineering  Design  Management 

Systems  Engineering 

Contract  Requirements  Flowdown 

Design  Review 

Transition  to  Production 

Design  Process  Corrective  Action 

Checking  Engineering  Documentation 


4 


Publication  of  these  standards  and  procedures  is  necessary  to  impose  design 
discipline  by  company  management.  Extensively  documenting  the  many  aspects  of 
design,  development,  and  transition  to  production  permits  all  engineering  personnel  to 
know  company  policy  ^nd  procedures. 

DESIGN  REVIEW 

Design  Review  Coordinator 

Each  Hughes  MSG  laboratory  has  a  designated  design  review  coordinator 
responsible  for  ensuring  that  Hughes  standards  for  design  reviews  are  followed.  These 
standards  cover  the  specialities  that  must  be  represented  on  the  design  review  panel, 
procedures  for  identifying  action  items,  etc. 

The  design  review  coordinator  is  responsible  for  ensuring  that  action  items  identified 
by  a  design  review  panel  are  addressed  within  a  prescribed  time  period,  archiving  design 
review  data,  and  preparing  summary  reports. 

Design  review  coordinators  are  senior  project  or  staff  engineers.  Coordination  of 
design  reviews  is  only  one  of  their  responsibilities.  They  are  headed  by  a  division  design 
review  coordinator. 

Detailed  reviews  are  performed  at  the  unit  or  sub-system  level.  The  responsible  unit 
engineer  organizes  the  design  review  and  selects  the  panelists.  A  monthly  schedule  of 
design  reviews  is  distributed. 

COMPUTER-AIDED  DESIGN 

Computer  Aided  Engineering  and  Design 

Hughes  MSG  has  aggressively  implemented  both  mechanical  and  electrical 
Computer  Aided  Engineering  and  Design  (CAE/CAD).  Through  the  use  of  extensive 
circuit  simulation,  they  have  effectively  eliminated  the  breadboard  cycle  from  the 
development  of  digital  systems.  Simulations  of  analog  circuits  are  performed  to  the 
extent  that  the  technology  permits. 

The  use  of  CAE/CAD  for  mechanical  design  and  drafting  has  resulted  in  significant 
savings: 

25%  reduction  in  drafting  costs 

40%  reduction  in  optics  drafting  manhours 

30%  savings  in  data  preparation  for  optics  analysis  systems 

60%  savings  in  N/C  programming 

reduction  of  printed  wiring  fabrication  setup  from  four  weeks  to  one  week. 

Hughes  Aircraft  has  invested  heavily  in  CAE  for  both  design  and  manufacturing.  It 
appears  to  have  placed  a  priority  on  integrating  data  from  electronic  and  mechanical 
design  tools  to  a  single  system. 


5 


Mentor  Graphics  software  running  on  Apollo  computers  is  used  as  front-end 
electronic  CAE  workstations.  Apollo-Mentor  was  originally  used  only  for  schematic 
capture  and  was  characterized  as  under  used  by  Hughes  MSG  personnel.  Apollo-Mentor 
is  now  used  extensively  for  digital  logic  simulation  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  for  analog 
circuit  simulation.  Timing  analysis  and  fault  and  other  digital  simulations  are  performed 
with  Teradyne  Lasar  6  software  running  on  VAX  computers.  Printed  wiring  board 
(PWB)  layout  is  performed  on  IBM  computers  using  Interactive  PRANCE/CADAM 
(IPC)  software.  CADAM  is  used  for  all  mechanical  CAD.  Data  transfer  from 
Apollo-Mentor  to  VAX-Lasar  6  and  IBM/CADAM  is  by  a  simple  netlist. 


2.2  TEST 

INTEGRATED  TEST 
Design  Testability  Assessment 

Hughes  MSG  has  put  in  place  major  directive  documents  requiring  products 
designed  by  MSG  be  evaluated  for  testability  assessment.  Projects  are  being  evaluated 
for  test  thoroughness  and  fault  isolation  testing.  Hughes  MSG’s  general  design  for 
testability  philosophy  centers  on  reviewing  circuits  and  making  recommendations  for 
incorporating  testability  criteria  before  designs  are  frozen.  An  important  element  of  this 
philosophy  is  MSG’s  concern  for  developing  commonality  in  automated  test  equipment 
between  the  development  and  production  phases  of  a  program. 

In  addition,  Hughes  MSG  has  created  a  testability  panel  consisting  of  personnel  from 
engineering,  logistics  support,  producibility,  factory  operations,  and  standards.  The  panel 
serves  as  a  forum  for  discussing  testability  problems,  lessons  learned,  and 
recommendations  for  improving  techniques.  The  panel  also  provides  consulting  services 
to  projects/programs  throughout  MSG. 


2.3  PRODUCTION 
MANUFACTURING  PLAN 
Universal  Standard  for  Magnifying  Power 

Several  years  ago,  Hughes  discovered  that  many  magnification  aids  are  not  of  the 
advertised  power  and  there  is  no  recognized  optical  equation  for  determining  magnifying 
power  and  no  universally  accepted  standard  for  magnifying  power. 

Hughes  corporate  established  a  visual  inspection  task  team  leader  whose 
responsibility  was  to  develop  near,  short,  and  long-term  solutions.  The  team  developed  a 
standard  definition,  analyzed  and  described  magnifying  power  for  visual  magnification, 
and  established  realistic  functional  tolerances.  The  end  result  was  the  design  and  use  of 
an  instrument  which  measures  magnifying  power. 


6 


PIECE  PART  CONTROL 


Edge  Bar  Coding  of  Circuit  Boards 

The  sometimes  difficult  decision  to  surrender  valuable  circuit  board  real  estate  in 
order  to  accommodate  board  markings  has  been  eased  by  developing  a  method  for  laser 
marking  the  part  serial  numb  *  using  bar  codes  on  the  edges  of  boards.  Not  only  can  the 
boards  be  tracked  through  the  manufacturing  process  using  these  markings,  but  they  can 
be  more  easily  identified  among  densely  packed  adjacent  boards  when  servicing  the 
assembled  system. 


DEFECT  CONTROL 
Production  Quality  Indicators 

Hughes  MSG  has  implemented  a  very  effective  defect  reduction  and  control  system. 
It  is  a  plant-wide  process  feedback  system  using  points  in  the  manufacturing  flow  that 
have  been  determined  critical  to  the  quality  of  the  product.  The  points  are  called 
Production  Quality  Indicator  (PQIs)  for  hardware  manufacturing  processes  and 
Production  Support  Indicators  (PSIs)  for  non-hardware  operations;  e.g.,  engineering 
drawings.  The  system  functions  as  a  real-time  process  control  and  also  provides 
infonnation  for  tracking  defect  causes  and  defect  reduction.  The  indicators  provide  data 
required  for  corrective  actions  to  maintain  high  product  quality.  These  data  are 
prominently  displayed  on  the  factory  floor  and  reproduced  in  key  management  reports. 


Corrective  Action  Boards 

Corrective  Action  Boards  (CABs)  are  used  at  Hughes  MSG  to  manage  corrective 
actions  at  all  levels  throughout  the  factory.  The  boards  meet  regularly  and  review  data 
from  ttie  work  measurement  system;  the  scrap,  rework,  and  repair  system;  Production 
Quality  Indicator  (PQI)  and  Production  Support  Indicator  (PS1)  data;  audits;  and  Team 
Activity  reports.  The  CABs  identify  required  corrective  actions,  assign  responsibility, 
and  conduct  follow-up  to  ensure  actions  are  completed.  The  CABs  are  very  effective 
because  they  have  access  to  excellent  real-time  information  from  the  factory  floor  and  can 
provide  the  appropriate  level  of  management  attention  to  individual  problems. 


Scrap,  Rework,  and  Repair  (SRR)  Reduction  System 

Scrap  and  rework  are  typically  major  cost  drivers  in  defense  electronics  but  often  the 
elements  and  sources  of  these  costs  are  poorly  understood  and  managed.  Hughes  MSG 
has  developed  a  very  effective  system  for  tracking  and  managing  Scrap,  Rework,  and 
Repair  (SRR).  The  system  provides  a  means  to  accurately  identify  SRR  costs;  segregate 
them  into  discrete,  manageable  elements;  and  establish  meaningful  reporting  and  control 
techniques.  Its  objective  is  to  understand  and  control  SRR  elements  to  achieve  corrective 
action  and  cost  reduction. 


7 


A  key  element  of  the  Hughes  MSG  system  is  recognizing  that  traditional  techniques 
do  not  provide  the  most  accurate  picture  for  identifying  and  effecting  corrective  action 
because,  while  they  compare  SRR  labor  hours  to  total  labor  hours,  they  do  not  account  for 
material  cost  of  scrap  or  consider  product  output.  The  MSG  system  measures  SRR  as  a 
percentage  of  the  value  of  product  produced  during  the  same  time  period.  Using  the  work 
measurement  system  (described  separately),  each  element  of  SRR  is  identified  by  a 
rework  code  showing  whether  the  cause  was  related  to  workmanship,  engineering,  test, 
vendor,  or  process.  Using  this  infonnation,  those  responsible  for  performing  and 
managing  manufacturing  operations  can  initiate  corrective  actions  and  establish  SRR 
reduction  goals.  Goals  are  established  at  multiple  management  levels  from  factory  level 
to  work  center  level.  Annual  goals  are  set  and  re-evaluated  semi-annually.  These  goals 
form  the  basis  of  performance  measurement  and  identification  of  corrective  action  and 
also  provide  the  basis  for  future  program  estimates  and  proposals. 

SPECIAL  TEST  EQUIPMENT 

Optical  Augmented  Semi-automatic  Inspection  System  (OASIS) 

Optical  Semi-automatic  Inspection  (OSI) 

Several  years  ago,  Hughes  MSG  discovered  that  many  magnification  aids  were 
incorrectly  marked  as  to  their  magnifying  power  and  were  poorly  designed  for  inspector 
comfort.  As  an  outgrowth  of  their  efforts  to  solve  these  problems,  Hughes  MSG  designed 
two  special  optical  inspection  systems:  Optical  Augmented  Semi-automatic  Inspection 
System  (OASIS)  and  Optical  Semi-automatic  Inspection  (OSI). 

OASIS  is  a  system  developed  for  the  repetitive  visual  inspection  of  products  having 
separate  points  to  be  inspected.  The  system  consists  of  a  stationary  optical  magnification 
aid  and  a  computer-controlled  table.  The  table  is  programmed  to  present  the  inspector 
with  inspection  points  at  their  best  visual  aspect  for  the  optimum  time.  In  addition,  the 
system  has  features  which  reduce  inspector  fatigue,  thereby  reducing  the  opportunity  for 
error. 

OSI  is  an  advanced  simple  axis  microscope  designed  for  solder  inspection.  It  is  a 
4X/10X  long  eye  relief,  enhanced  depth  perception  microscope.  The  system  consists  of  a 
one-eye  stationary  optical  magnification  designed  for  inspector  comfort.  There  are  plans 
to  incorporate  a  computer-controlled  inspection  table  which  would  decrease  inspection 
tunes. 

In  the  development  of  the  OASIS  and  OSI,  Hughes  MSG  used  a  novel  optical  design 
which  differs  significantly  from  the  nearest  prior  technology. 

COMPUTER  AIDED  MANUFACTURING 

Computer  Integrated  Manufacturing 

Hughes  MSG  has  implemented  a  shop  floor  CIM  system  in  its  microelectronics 
(hybrid)  manufacturing  area.  The  installation  provides  shop  floor  conUol  by  tracking 
work-in-progress,  controlling  where  it  goes,  collecting  history  and  quality  data,  and 
routing  rework. 

Approximately  six  years  ago,  when  Hughes  MSG  made  the  decision  to  pursue  CIM, 
there  were  no  commercially  available  packages  which  fitted  their  needs.  They  decided  to 
create  a  package.  This  involved  designing  the  hardware  architecture  and  writing  all  the 
software. 


8 


The  computer  hardware  includes  an  IBM  3081  and  a  Computervision  CGP/200C 
CAD/CAM  system.  Hughes  is  in  the  process  of  standardizing  on  CADAM  as  a 
CAD/CAM  system.  PC-AT  and  Motorola  68000  microprocessors  serve  as  the  interfaces 
between  the  Tandem  shop  floor  host  computer  and  individual  workstations.  The 
following  equipment  is  currently  integrated  into  the  CIM  system: 

Quantrad  Laser 
Universal  die  attach 
Hughes  Tucson  die  verify 
Hughes  Model  2600  wire  pull 
K  &  S  wire  pull 
HP  functional  test 
SSEC  seam  sealer 
AMI  bum  in 
SMI  molytab/punch 

Interface  is  made  from  the  operator  to  the  workstation  through  a  combination  of  bar 
code  readers,  touch  screens,  and  keyboards. 

Some  important  features  of  the  shopfloor  CIM  system  are:  paperless  planning, 
lot-size-one  flexibility,  and  computer  controlled  machinery.  The  system  electronically 
distributes  instructions  to  the  operators  at  their  workstations.  This  insures  the  operator  is 
following  the  precise  instruction  for  the  work  in  progress,  as  well  as  reducing  the  amount 
of  paperwork  needed.  Hughes  MSG  reports  that  by  implementing  the  system,  they  were 
able  to  increase  production  by  330%  while  maintaining  employees  at  the  same  level.  The 
commitment  to  the  system  is  showing  benefits  in  other  areas  of  the  facility.  There  are 
plans  to  implement  the  system  in  the  circuit  card  assembly  area  with  people  now 
experienced  enough  to  accomplish  the  task  quickly. 

Automated  Hybrid  Production  Equipment 

Hughes  MSG  has  invested  considerable  resources  in  upgrading  their  hybrid 
manufacturing  facility.  In  order  to  automate  the  facility,  Hughes  MSG  has  bought 
off-the-shelf  equipment  that  can  be  used  for  die  attach,  wire  bonding,  and  package 
sealing.  Through  its  in-house  engineering  lab,  Hughes  MSG  has  developed  equipment 
where  none  has  been  available  to  meet  specific  production  problems.  It  is  quite 
innovative  to  have  the  in-house  capabilities  to  design  and  develop  unique  production 
equipment. 

Two  notable  items  that  have  been  designed  and  fabricated  by  Hughes  MSG 
engineers  are  the  auto  wire  verify  system  and  the  auto  wire  pull  tester.  The  auto  wire 
verify  system  is  semi-automatic  equipment  used  to  verify  that  hybrid  components  have 
been  wire  bonded  correctly.  This  is  done  after  wire  bond  pull  and  prior  to  pre-cap  visual 
inspections.  The  equipment  also  has  some  utility  in  discovering  other  defects  prior  to  the 
pre-cap  inspection.  A  very  interesting  feature  of  this  system  is  the  overlay  of  CAD 
database  information  on  the  computer  screen  to  assist  the  operator  in  verifying  a  proper 
wire  bond  location.  CAD  information  is  used  in  other  areas  such  as  die  attach,  and  this  is 
considered  to  be  a  best  practice. 


9 


The  second  piece  of  unique  equipment  designed  and  built  by  Hughes  is  an  automatic 
wire  pull  tester.  This  tester  receives  test  requirements  via  a  CIM  interface  unit  and 
automatically  sets  up  the  parameters  necessary  to  do  100%  pull  test  inspection.  Based  on 
the  part  number  under  test,  the  wire  locations  and  pull  force  are  automatically  provided  to 
the  tester.  The  tester  uses  optical  techniques  in  addition  to  the  design  data  base  to  locate 
wires  that  may  have  been  mis-registered  during  the  bonding  process.  This  tester  is 
currently  commercially  available  from  Hughes  Carlsbad  Industrial  Products  Division  as 
Automatic  Pull  Tester  Model  No.  2600. 

Overall,  Hughes  MSG  has  done  an  excellent  job  in  automating  their  hybrid  assembly 
operation.  They  have  achieved  many  quality  and  productivity  improvements  including: 
reducing  touch  labor  by  more  than  50%,  reducing  scrap  by  more  than  35%,  increasing 
first  test  yields  from  68%  to  85%,  reducing  rework  by  25%,  reducing  production  control 
support  by  25%,  and  demonstrating  a  95%  inventory  accuracy. 

2.4  FACILITIES 

MODERNIZATION 

Central  Stores 

An  automated  material  handling  system  has  been  installed  which  attempts  to  track 
each  part  that  enters  or  leaves  the  system.  The  small-parts  hardware  consists  of  eighteen 
Richard-Wilcox  2050  rotating  bin  carousels  and  an  IBM  PC -AT  and  Intermec  8635  bar 
code  printer  at  each  carousel  connected  to  a  3-Com  network  server.  This  system  is  linked 
in  turn  to  a  Tandem  computer  for  inventory  control  and  to  the  IBM  system  for  Material 
Requirements  Planning  (MRP).  The  software,  developed  by  Hughes  MSG  and  Intermec 
for  the  carousels  and  by  Hughes  MSG  for  MRP  and  inventory  control  functions,  provides 
on-line  control  capabilities  at  all  levels. 

Black  conductive  corrugated  paper  trays  are  used  in  the  carousels  instead  of  plastic. 
At  an  average  cost  of  $1.46  each,  versus  $24-$30  for  conductive  plastic,  they  represent  a 
substantial  cost  savings  even  when  considering  average  service  life. 

Kitting  is  not  done  at  the  end-of-carousel  pick-put  stations,  but  rather  at  a  single 
kitting  station.  As  items  from  the  carousel  stations  are  fed  via  conveyor  to  the  kitting 
operator,  the  item  bar  codes  are  wanded.  Adjacent  to  the  operator  are  racks  containing 
various  kit  totes,  each  having  a  signal  light  associated  with  its  rack  position.  The  operator 
simply  places  the  part  in  the  illuminated  tote,  and  the  tenninal  notifies  when  a  kit  is 
complete. 

The  potential  cost  reductions  are  significant.  Floor  space  has  been  reduced  from 
225,000  to  24,000  square  feet,  seven  locations  have  been  consolidated  to  one,  three  shifts 
were  reduced  to  one,  overtime  has  essentially  been  eliminated,  and  pick-put  times  average 
60  seconds. 

Current  operation  is  essentially  paperless,  helping  create  inventory  accuracies  greater 
than  95%.  Industrial  Engineering  feels  that  most  of  the  remaining  inaccuracies  are 
created  by  their  single  remaining  piece  of  paper,  a  receiving  "induct"  form,  and  is 
studying  methods  to  electronically  streamline  this. 


10 


Engineering  Analysis  Laboratory 

The  Engineering  Analysis  Laboratory  provides  plantsite  teclmical  engineering 
support  for  components,  materials  and  processes.  It  also  provides  components  and 
materials  failure  and  chemical  and  metallurgical  analysis. 

What  makes  the  approach  a  best  practice  centers  about  the  failure 
analysis-destructive  physical  analysis  concept  and  its  application  to  problem  solving, 
corrective  action,  and  problem  avoidance.  Failure  analysis  is  a  science  and,  as  such,  is 
used  to  determine  the  reason  for  failure  whether  related  to  a  component,  solder  joint,  or 
metal  fatigue,  for  example.  By  then  taking  this  analysis,  a  corrective  action  can  be 
implemented  that  really  corrects  the  problem.  This  is  a  key  ingredient  to  any  successful 
part  of  corrective  action  implementation  and  the  resulting  improvement  to  reliability. 

Failure  analysis  laboratory  equipment 

Magnaflux  real  time  X-ray,  MXF-150M 
Cambridge  200  and  90  scanning  electron  microscopes 
Princeton  Gamma  Tech  System  4  X-ray  analyzer 
Tegal  plasmoline  plasma  etcher,  211 

Chemical  analysis  laboratory 

Hewlett  Packard  Model  5995  gas  chromatograph/mass  spectrophotometer 
EG7G  Model  384  analyzer 
Varian  3700  gas  chromatograph 

Analect  Fourier  6160  transfonn  infrared  spectrophotometer 
Liquid  chromatograph 

Dynamic  mechanical  thennal  analyzer,  Polymar  Labs  DMTA2 

Perkin  Elmer  TA&7  thennal  analyzer 

Perkin  Elmer  3030B  atomic  absorption  spectrophotometer 

Metallurgical  Laboratory 

Cambridge  600  stereoscan  scanning  electron  microscope 

Kevex  X-ray  analyzer 

Leci  DM400  microhardness  tester 

Wilson  Rockwell  hardness  tester 

Hollis  &  Multicore  meniscographs 

Instron  Model  1125  universal  tensile  tester 

2.5  LOGISTICS 

TRAINING  MATERIALS  AND  EQUIPMENT 
Personnel  Development 

Hughes  has  established  a  formal  training  program  for  the  advancement  of 
engineering  personnel  in  the  disciplines  of  project  (unit)  engineering.  Hie  advantage  of 
company  training  over  general  management  training  is  that  specific  company  policies, 
procedures  and  standards  can  be  taught. 


11 


Specific  topics  covered  are: 


The  role  of  the  Project  (Unit)  Engineer 
Design  for  quality 
Design  disciplines 
Design  resources 

Design  for  transition  to  production 

The  courses  are  taught  by  Hughes  project  engineers  and  managers.  Courses  are  held 
one  night  per  week  for  two  hours  over  sixteen  weeks. 

2.6  MANAGEMENT 

MANUFACTURING  STRATEGY 
Planning  Packaging 

The  planning  package  contains  the  step-by-step  process  instructions  required  for 
operator  assembly  of  the  many  complex  devices  fabricated  on  the  Hughes  MSG  factory 
floor.  A  package  is  generated  for  each  assembly.  The  techniques,  equipment,  and 
processes  are  developed  with  high  yields,  high  reliability,  and  low  cost  in  mind. 
Considerable  discipline  and  control  are  demonstrated  to  ensure  correct  instructions  are 
available  to  the  operator.  Each  package  is  thoroughly  reviewed  before  release  to  the 
manufacturing  floor.  As  instructions  evolve  and  before  final  release,  they  are  completely 
checked  out  with  the  operator,  equipment,  procedure,  and  product.  The  package  is 
currently  paper,  but  it  is  in  the  process  of  being  integrated  into  the  Computer  Integrated 
Manufacturing  (CIM)  paperless  factory  program. 

PERSONNEL  REQUIREMENTS 

Career  Enrichment  Program 

As  part  of  its  strategic  plan  to  position  itself  competitively  over  the  next  decade, 
Hughes  MSG  has  begun  its  Career  Enrichment  Program  (CEP).  The  CEP  is  a  joint 
management-union  effort  designed  to  enhance  work  force  productivity  by  providing 
hourly  workers  with  career  advancement  and  increased  pay  for  skill  development.  Team 
spirit  will  be  cultivated  even  as  individual  productivity  is  rewarded.  The  goal:  achieving  a 
competitive,  stable,  and  cohesive  work  force. 

The  program  was  developed  using  lessons  learned  from  other  companies  with 
similar  programs.  Good  communications  between  the  union,  management,  and  initial 
participants  were  key  to  developing  a  spirit  of  trust  and  cooperation.  Gradual 
implementation  using  pilot  programs  over  the  next  18  months  is  planned.  Workers  are 
encouraged  to  acquire  additional  skills  to  fill  new  job  classifications  which  combine 
several  former  classifications  into  one  job.  Other  features  of  the  program  include:  no  jobs 
lost  as  a  result  of  the  program,  extensive  OJT  and  skill  training,  tuition  assistance  and 
training  programs  instituted  at  local  schools,  pay  for  new  knowledge  or  skills  even  if  not 
used,  and  career-path  advancement. 

The  CEP  is  an  aggressive  program  for  achieving  major  cultural  change  within  the 
company  that,  at  inception,  appears  well  planned  and  readily  managed. 


12 


SECTION  3 


PROBLEM  AREAS 


3.1  DESIGN 

DESIGN  POLICY 

Incorporation  of  Military  Specs  &  Standards  into  Corp.  Databases 

Hughes  MSG  is  experiencing  problems  obtaining  military  standards  and 
specifications  in  a  format  that  will  allow  it  to  enter  them  into  the  automated 
requirement/document  database.  Hughes  has  worked  with  Defense  Standardization 
Program  Office,  Defense  Electronic  Supply  Center,  Naval  Forms  and  Publications  Center, 
and  Air  Force  ESD/AVSE,  but  has  not  yet  received  the  documents  in  an  automated 
format. 

Hughes  MSG  also  stated  that  present  military  standards/specifications  page  fonnats 
are  not  compatible  with  typical  personal  computer  80  character/line  fonnats.  Inputters  are 
forced  to  either  extend  the  screen  or  to  wrap  the  ends  of  sentences  on  the  monitor. 

Availability  of  MIL-SPECS  on  Electronic  Media 

Hughes  MSG  appears  to  have  done  an  excellent  job  of  making  it’s  engineering 
procedures  and  practices  available  on  most  of  its  computer  terminals.  Hughes  MSG  has 
also  manually  entered  some  key  MIL-SPECS.  It  would  like  to  have  all  MIL-SPECS 
available  on-line,  but  there  is  no  official  source  on  electronic  media. 

Hughes  MSG  has  identified  several  agencies  who  have  electronically  transcribed 
MIL-SPECS  to  electronic  media.  In  particular,  Defense  Electronic  Suppply  Center 
(DESC)  has  a  considerable  number  of  these  specifications  entered  into  a  Wang  word 
processing  system.  However,  DESC  refuses  to  furnish  a  copy  of  this  media  despite  the 
Hughes  MSG  offer  to  pay  for  the  copying  and  media  costs  and  to  sign  a  release  in  the 
event  of  errors  in  the  electronic  transcriptions. 

It  would  be  to  the  DoD’s  advantage  to  provide  MIL-SPECS  already  available  on 
electronic  media  to  interested  contractors  and  to  establish  a  program  and  policy  to  make 
official  MIL-SPECS  on  electronic  media  as  soon  as  possible. 

3.2  PRODUCTION 

MANUFACTURING  PLAN 
Inspection  to  Specific  Military  Standards 

Hughes  MSG  stated  that  both  WS6536  and  DOD-STD-2000  still  need  attention  and, 
if  not  changed,  will  cause  major  difficulties  and  extensive  non-reliability  related  cost 
increases  to  the  inspection  process  and  to  the  product  itself.  Hughes  MSG 
interdepartmental  correspondence  of  30  July  87  (Ref.  5D60.7-87/215)  and  Hughes  MSG 
letter  of  16  Sept.  87  (Ref.  T-24456)  detail  further  changes  to  6536  and  2000. 


13 


SECTION  4 


SUMMARY 


Hughes  MSG  has  implemented  a  defect  reduction  and  control  system  through  the 
collection  of  data  at  critical  points  in  the  manufacturing  flow.  These  points,  called 
Production  Quality  Indicators  (PQIs)  for  hardware  manufacturing  processes,  provide  the 
data  required  for  corrective  actions  to  maintain  high  product  quality. 

Information  is  available  to  enhance  the  product  design  process  through  the  Hughes 
Aircraft’s  Tracked  Requirements,  Audits,  and  Feedback  for  Information  Control 
(TRAFFIC)  program  database.  Hughes  MSG  has  stressed,  tlirough  policies  and 
programs,  that  a  product  is  to  be  designed  for  testability 

Hughes  MSG  has  instituted  a  successful  Computer  Integrated  Manufacturing  (CIM) 
system  in  their  hybrid  microelectronics  manufacturing  area. 

The  point  of  contact  for  this  BMP  survey  is: 

Mr.  Eugene  Vitale 

Manager,  Manufacturing  Technology  Systems 

(602)794-1612 

Hughes  Aircraft  Company 
Missile  Systems  Group 
Bldg.  801,  MS  G10 
P.O.  Box  11337 
Tucson,  A Z  85734 


15 


