NOTICE 


THIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN REPRODUCED FROM 
MICROFICHE. ALTHOUGH IT IS RECOGNIZED THAT 
CERTAIN PORTIONS ARE ILLEGIBLE, IT IS BEING RELEASED 
IN THE INTEREST OF MAKING AVAILABLE AS MUCH 
INFORMATION AS POSSIBLE 



' * > 








(NASA-CR-16Q661) CRITIQUE OF THE HUGHES N80-25521 

AIRCRAFT SHUTTLE Ku BAND LEADING EDGE BIT 
SYNCHRONIZER Interim Report (Axiomatix, Los 
Angeles, Calif.) 17 p HC A02/MF A01 Unclas 

CSCL.17B G3/32 22959 




CRITIQUE OF THE HUGHES AIRCRAFT SHUTTLE 
KU-BAND LEADING EDGE BIT SYNCHRONIZER 


Contract No. NAS 9-15795B 


Interim Report 


Prepared for 

NASA Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center 
Houston, Texas 77058 


Prepared by 
J. K. Hoi 1 ” :s 


Axiomatix 

9841 Airport Blvd., Suite 912 
Los Angeles, California 90045 


Axiomatix Report No, R8005-2 
May 5, 1980 


1.0 


SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS 


A bit synchronizer proposed by Hughes Aircraft (Culver City) 
is analyzed via timing diagrams in a noise-free environment. This syn- 
chronizer is, in part, a substantial revision of the bit synchronizer 
proposed by P. H. Conway [1] of Hughes Aircraft Company (HAC). 

Based on a review of a HAC note [2] and the timing diagrams 
of Figures 2 through 9, it is believed that this new bit synchronizer will 
track the rising edge of the data bits with 25 % asymmetry and up to a 90° 
phase shift between the recHved clock and data bit timing. In addition, 
the data bits will be demodulated correctly. 

It is not true that phase shifts larger than 90° will neces- 
sarily be corrected by this bit synchronizer, as evidenced by Figures 8 
and 9. However, the specifications currently require the loop to operate 
over only a ±75° phase shift between the received data stream leading edges 
and the bit synchronizer leading edges; consequently, there should be 
no problem. 

2.0 INTRODUCTION AND DESCRIPTION OF THE LEADING EDGE 

BIT SYNCHRONIZER 

The purpose of the bit synchronizer, shown in Figure 1, is to 
track the leading edge of the incoming bit stream with the aid of the 
received clock and, from this, to regenerate a symmetric bit stream to be 
processed by the convolutional encoder. In addition, the synchronizer 
provides a clock at the data rate as well as twice the data rate. 

In Figure 1, two additional subsystems are shown; the first is 
an adaptive threshold device that attempts to restore symmetry to the 
bit stream, and the second is a false frequency lock detector. Since the 
asymmetry corrector will be the subject of another report, we will now 
discuss the false frequency lock detector. 

The purpose of the false frequency lock detector is to ascer- 
tain whether the bit synchronizer is in true lock or false frequency 
lock. This is accomplished by counting both the received clock and the 
synchronizer-generated clock in two separate 8-bit counters. After either 
one counts to its maximum count of 256, the other counter is inhibited 
from further counting. At this point, the count of the unfilled counter 
is compared to 256. If the error is small enough, true lock is accepted; 







Figure 1. Hughes Culver City Ku-Band Bit Synchronizer Block Diagram 

















25% ASYMMETRY 



























Figure 6. Timing Diagram of the Bit Synchronizer Illustrating the Case of 25% Asymetry 
and the Data Leading the Q-Samples by 22.5° 


XZ CLK 



Synchronizer Illustrating the 
!-Samples by 100° 












Figure 8. Timing Diagram of the Bit Synchronizer Illustrating the Case of 25X Asymmetry 
with the Data Lagging the Q-Sampies by 190° 



Timing Diagram of the Bit Synchronizer Illustrating the Case of 25% Asymmetry 







11 


otherwise, false lock is assumed. If false lock is detected, the 
digital -to-analog converter (DAC) voltage is set to provide 0 DC bias 
into the loop filter, which allows the loop to reacquire in true lock. 

The bit synchronizer loop is composed of a Motorola high-frequency 
phase-frequency detector (<|>-F) [3-4] which is capable of detecting both 
phase and frequency errors and is used to track the received clock, as 
well as a bit timing detector, based on positive data transitions. 

The phase-frequency detector has been discussed in some detail 
in [1] and will not be discussed here except to say that its function is 
to act as a discriminator in a frequency lock loop during frequency acqui- 
sition and as a phase detector during tracking. 

In effect, the «j>-F detector removes the frequency error between 
the VCO and the received clock, then removes the phase error. The func- 
tion of the flip-flops, least significant bit detector, and counter-DAC 
unit is to position the clock-generated bit timing so that the Q-clock 
straddles the leading edge of each bit. 

The VCO is run at 4-100 MHz and divided by 2 by the D flip- 
flop (F/F) following the VCO. From the Q output, the Q-clock is generated 
and, from the Q output, the I-clock is generated. Flip-flop FDI then 
provides samples of the I sample (mid-bit samples) whereas FDQ outputs 
the Q samples (or transition samples). The function of FEQ is to delay 
the I sample by one-half of one bit so that the positive data detector 
gate will go high when a positive transition occurs. The up/down gate, 
along with the J-AND and K-AND gates, set the JK flip-flop so as to 
increase or decrease the counter count and, therefore, the DAC voltage. 

This voltage is subtracted in the loop filter amplifier, thereby adjust- 
ing the loop VCO phase relative to the received clock phase. Both the 
Q-clock and the X2 clock, plus the resynchronized data, are sent to the 
convolutional decoder. The function of the least significant bit tran- 
sition detector is to provide a settling time of 2 ms before a new update 
can be processed. 

Now consider Figure 2, which illustrates how the loop provides 
corrections so as to align the leading edge of the Q-clock with the lead- 
ing edge of the bit stream. The top row illustrates an early data stream 
in the solid line and a late data stream in the dashed line. The next 
three rows illustrate the I, Q and X2 clocks. 


12 


In the 5th row, the FDI D-type flip-flop samples the data stream 
at the rising edge of the I-clock (CLK), whereas FDQq outputs the Q-CLK 
sample of the data in row 6. The 7th row indicates that the FDQq- output 
is simply the complement of FDQq. Notice that both FDQq and FDQq- are 
dependent on the data timing relative to the Q-CLK timing. 

Row 8 illustrates the output of FEQq which is a one-half-bit 
delay of the I samples. FEQq- is the complement of FEQq. In the 10th row, 
the positive transition detector output AND-gate is shown. Notice that a 
pulse occurs one-half a bit after the occurrence of the leading edge of 
each bit. 

The 11th row illustrates the up/down gate output for both late 
and early data streams. In the 12th row, the count enable flip-flip is 
indicate-!.. In order for the count enable to be high, the reset input 
must be at the 0 state and the transition detector must be high when the 
Q-clock arrives. When the Q-output is high, the up/down counter is free 
to accept a unit change in its count. 

In the 13th row, the 1 kHz clock tick marks are shown, for 
convenience, at a much higher rate than 1 kHz. The counter enable (O’) 
output of the flip-flop of row 14 is the inverse of the 12th row output. 

Row 15 depicts the output of the J-AND gate, illustrating the 
difference for ear 1 ./ and late data streams. In the same manner, row 17 
illustrates the output of the K-AND gate. In row 16, the inverse of 
the up/ down gate is illustrated. 

Row 18 illustrates the least significant bit output of the up/ 
down counter which feeds the LSB delayed flip-flop. This control stays 
high for 2 ms rather than 1 ms since the up/down counter is enabled just 
after the next 1 ms clock occurs, which therefore requires 2 ms to change 
the LSB. 

In row 19, the least significant bit detector flip-flop output 
stays high for 2 ms, as can be seen from the sketch. The reason for the 
2 ms duration is the same as for the LSB 2 ms duration. Th^ reset control 
for the counter enable F/F is just the modulo 2 sum of the LSB and the 
LSB-delayed F/F, which is shown in row 20. 

In the 21st row, the JK F/F called FHQ(Q) provides the advance 
or retard signal which, when clocked into the up/down counter and converted 
via the DAC, provides the timing error reduction. This advance or retard 



13 


is relative to the Q-clock epoch times. Finally, the last row illustrates 
the times when the counter is updated to correct the loop timing. Notice 
that the correction will be an advance of the VCO-generated clock when the 
leading edge of the bit stream leads the clock and a retard if the data 
leading edge is retarded from the clock. 

3.0 TIMING DIAGRAMS UNDER IMPERFECT DATA STREAMS 

In this section, timing diagrams are presented which consider 
data asymmetry of 25% and various timing errors. In Figure 3, the case 
of 25% asymmetry is illustrated via a timing diagram. Asymmetry is 
defined as 


ASY « 


T T 
'10 

v— r ~ t * 100 'tf 
1 'o 


( 1 ) 


where T^ is the bit duration of a "one" when preceded and followed by a 
zero, and T Q is the bit duration of a "zero" when preceded and followed 
by a one. It is currently expected that the total asymmetry due to rise 
time and transmitted asymmetry will be no more than 25% at 50 Mbps, and 
less at low bit rates. 

In the last row of Figure 3, it is seem that the updating is in 
the correct direction; that is, the Q-clock is advancing. We conclude 
from Figure 3 that errors up to 90° (data leading edge of the Q-clock) 
are acceptable to the bit synchronizer when the data "ones" are larger 
than the data "zeros" with 25% asymmetry. 

In Figure 4, the same case as in Figure 3 is illustrated, except 
that the data lags the Q samples leading edge by 67.5°. As can be seen 
in row 6, the Q samples are all zero; however, the last row of the timing 
diagram indicates that the error correction signal retards the timing, 
which is the proper action for the loop to take. We conclude from Fig- 
ure 4 that, with errors up to 90° (data lagging the leading edge of the 
Q-clock) and 25% asymmetry, the bit synchronizer works properly so as to 
decrease the timing error. 

Figure 5 illustrates the same case as Figure 4 except that the 
phase of the 1 kHz clock has been changed to verify that the loop operates 
properly, which it does. 




14 


In Figure 6, the case when the data leads the Q-clock by 22.5° 
is illustrated. This figure has the "ones" larger than the "zeros" but, 
again, the bit synchronizer provides the correct correction so as to 
reduce the tracking error. 

Figure 7 illustrates the case where data lags the Q samples 
by 100° and has 25% asymmetry with the "zeros" wider than the "ones." 

As can be seen from the last row, the loop still corrects in the proper 
direction so as to reduce the timing error. 

The point of Figure 8 is to illustrate the fact that the bit 
synchronizer has limitations as to how large a timing error can be toler- 
ated. With the data lagging the leading edge of the Q sample by 190°, it 
is seen that the loop has no response; that is, no loop correction occurs 
since the counter enable is always at 0 or, equivalently, the counter is 
disabled. 

Finally, Figure 9 illustrates the case when, with 25% asymmetry, 
and the data leading the Q-clock by 100° , the loop is incapable of provid- 
ing updates to reduce the timing error. 


15 


REFERENCES 


1. Holmes, J. K. , "Critique of a Hughes Shuttle Ku-Band Data Sampler/ 
Bit Synchronizer," Axiomatix Report No. R8003-1, March 14, 1980. 

2. "Mid-Bit Corrector," Hughes Aircraft Company (Culver City) note 
dated about March 1980. 

3. Motorola MC4344-MC4044 Phase Frequency Detector Specifications and 
Operating Characteristics, Issue A, 1972. 

4. Kimura, R. K. , "Logic Description of the Motorola MSI Digital Phase 
Detectors," TRW IOC 7333.11-21, October 31, 1974. 


