RAYTHEON!  A  utometric 

SEPTEMBER  1973 
TR- 3489-1 


FINAL  REPORT 

A  PILOT  DATA  COLLECTION  EFFORT 
IN  THE  CALIFORNIA  DESERT 


Prepared  for 

BUREAU  OF  LAND  MANAGEMENT 
California  State  Office 
Riverside  District 


CALIFORNIA  DESERT  DISTRICT  OFFICE 
1695  SPRUCE  STREET 
RIVERSIDE,  CA  92507 


Bureau  of  Land  Management 

Library 

B!dg.  50,  Denver  Federal  Center 

Denver,  CO  80225 


Prepared  by 

RAYTHEON   COMPANY 

EQUIPMENT   DIVISION 

AUTOMETRIC 

BOSTON   POST   ROAD 

WAYLAND,    MASSACHUSETTS        01778 


BUREAU   OF   LAND  MANAGEMENT  LIBRARY 

Denver,  Colorado 


88660841 


SECTION  1 


INTRODUCTION 


This  report  documents  the  background,  technical  approach  and  results 
of  the  project,  Pilot  Data  Collection  Effort  of  Natural  Resources  in  the  Calif- 
ornia Desert,  Contract  number  08550-CT-A. 

Like  many  other  natural  resources  in  our  country,  the  California 
Desert  has  been  used  and  abused  for  sometime  and  it  has  been  only  within  the 
last  10  years  that  the  opposing  forces  of  accelerated  abuse  and  environment 
concern  have  come  together  to  focus  attention  on  its  ecological  survival. 
Recognizing  the  public  concern  for  the  deserts  and  their  responsibility  to 
manage  the  public  lands  within  this  area,  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Interior, 
Bureau  of  Land  Management  (BLM)  embarked  on  the  development  of  a  Desert-wide 
Management  Program.   As  a  measure  of  the  program's  importance,  the  BLM  State 
Director,  Russell  J.  Penny,  made  the  committment  of  establishing  a  planning 
task  force  in  the  Riverside  District  Office  with  the  express  purpose  of 
developing  a  viable  plan.   However,  in  consideration  of  the  size  of  the  area, 
the  myriad  of  natural  and  cultural  resources  involved  and  the  magnitude  of 
public  use,  decision  to  develop  a  workable  plan  of  this  type  is  much  easier 
to  make  than  develop  and  implement. 

The  Desert  Planning  Staff  began  by  defining  three  phases  or  stages: 

1.  A  Desert  Plan  Overview,  in  which  the  intent  was  to  gather  desert- 
wide  information  to  provide  the  staff  with  a  broad  understanding 
of  the  desert  resources,  their  current  land  use,  problems  faced  by 
District  personnel  and  a  "feel"  for  the  level  of  effort  required  to 
develop  a  definitive  plan;  and 

2.  an  Interim  Desert  Plan,  to  provide  a  framework  for  critical  manage- 
ment activities  pending  completion  of  the  operational  plan,  which 
will  include  a  Land  Use  Options  Plan  (to  delineate  land  use  areas 


and  establish  policies  for  management  decisions)  ,  a  Desert-wide 
Work  Plan  Guide  (to  align  work  plans  of  the  Riverside  and  Bakersfield 
Districts  with  desert-wide  planning  objectives),  a  Special  Activity 
Plan  (to  identify  areas  requiring  immediate  management  attention) , 
and  a  Catalog  of  Other  Plans  and  Programs  (to  identify  plans  and 
programs  of  other  government  agencies  and  also  to  summarize 
recommendations  submitted  by  user  and  conservation  organizations);  and 

3.         a  Desert  Plan  where  the  components  of  stage  2  are  defined  in  an 
operational  framework  for  implementation. 

The  questions  of  priorities,  or  where  intensive  inventory  and  planning 
should  begin,  was  answered  by  conducting  discussions  with  area  managers  and 
resource  specialists,  by  evaluating  available  resource  and  land  use  data,  and  by 
holding  open  hearings  for  which  public  participation  was  solicited.   Two  key  areas 
were  identified:  the  Yuha  Desert-Carrizo  Area,  south  of  the  Anza-Borrego  State  Park 
and  west  of  the  Imperial  Valley,  and  the  Trona-El  Paso  Mountain- Rand  Mountain 
Area,  in  the  Mojave  Desert.   They  were  considered  to  be  the  most  heavily  affected 
by  recreation  activities  of  all  kinds:  desert  motorcycle  racing  and  other  off- 
road  vehicle  activity,  rock  specimen  collecting,  camping,  amateur  archeology, 
hunting  and  backpack  country  exploring. 

Having  determined  the  general  areas  where  more  resource  data  was 
necessary,  the  next  questions  were  how  large  an  area  within  the  general  areas 
should  be  considered  in  a  pilot  program  and  how  should  the  task  be  accomplished. 
The  decision  was  made  to  use  aerial  photograph  interpretation  and  mapping  tech- 
niques, with  contractor  assistance,  to  perform  an  inventory  of  soil  and  vegetation 
units  over  portions  of  the  two  desert  areas  —  the  total  study  area  to  equal 
approximately  one  million  acres. 

The  Raytheon  Company,  Autometric  Operation  began  working  with  the 
BLM  in  1972  with  the  general  objective  of  determining  realistic  levels  of  resource 
data  inventory  for  the  desert  areas  by  compiling  appropriate  resource  maps  from 
exploitation  of  remotely  sensed  imagery. 


2. 


SECTION  2 
TECHNICAL  APPROACH 

2.1        General 

Based  upon  a  proposal  by  Autometric,  the  contract  and  subsequent 
project  included  seven  tasks: 

1.  Specification  of  Aerial  Photograph  Acquisition 

2.  Review  and  Acceptance  of  Imagery 

3.  Preliminary  Field  Surveys 
A.  Photo  Analysis 

5.  Field  Validation 

6.  Preparation  of  Analysis  Keys  and 

7.  Preparation  of  Thematic  Overlays. 

An  eighth  task,  construction  of  digital  files  from  thematic  overlays 
prepared  under  Task  7  and  computer  processing  of  higher  order  graphics  based 
on  Ecological  Unit  Associations,  was  not  a  specific  part  of  this  program  but 
related  to  a  concurrent  natural  resource  information  system  development  program 
with  the  Bureau  of  Indian  Affairs. 

The  first  two  tasks  were  advisory  in  that  we  recommended  the  photo 
acquisition  parameters  and  basic  standards  for  imagery  acceptance.   Very  early 
in  the  program  we  had  to  make  a  fundamental  decision  concerning  the  basic 
tools,  i.e.,  the  aerial  photographs.   Since  the  California  Desert  covers  some 
25  million  acres,  the  pilot  study  area  had  to  be  sufficiently  large  and  varied 
to  reach  valid  conclusions  regarding  the  application  of  similar  or  related 
inventory  techniques  to  the  total  area.   On  this  basis,  we  recommended  a  true 
color  or  natural  color  emulsion  and  a  scale  of  1:20,000.   We  realized  that 
1:20,000  scale  was  the  threshold  for  recognition  of  some  desert  shrubs  and  sub- 
threshold for  grasses  and  f orbs .   However,  the  true  color  emulsion  would 
facilitate  estimates  of  the  site  quality  through  the  use  of  green  tones  and  it 
would  also  help  in  the  differentiation  of  soil  parent  materials. 


In  addition  to  the  parameters  of  scale,  Autometric  personnel 
assisted  with  the  determinations  of  altitude,  ground  coverage,  side  and  end 
lap,  orientation  of  flight  lines  and  approximate  number  of  photographs  to  be 
acquired. 

When  the  proposal  was  prepared  we  anticipated  a  formal  role  in  the 
review  and  acceptance  of  imagery.   In  practice  it  was  more  realistic  for  the 
BLM  to  make  the  determination  since  they  were  in  closer  proximity  to  the  aerial 
photo  contractor.   During  the  process  of  interpreting  the  images,  however,  we 
did  assess  factors  such  as  overlap  and  side  lap,  scale  consistancy  tip  and  tilt 
and  color  rendition. 

Regarding  the  results  of  this  effort,  we  feel  that  the  overall 
acquisition  parameters  were  adhered  to,  however,  photometric  quality  control 
on  hues  was  marginal.   The  hues  on  the  Yuha  Area  photos  were  much  better 
controlled  than  those  over  the  Mojave  Area.   This  will  be  evident  as  BLM 
personnel  study  the  analysis  keys  prepared  under  Task  6  and  uses  the  other 
color  photographs  for  specific  planning  and  management  applications. 

Tasks  3,  A  and  5  dealt  with  the  problems  of  preparing  resource 
classification  systems,  image  analysis/delineation  and  field  validation. 

Tasks  6  and  7  involved  the  transformation  of  image  analyses  to 
contract  deliverable  items  -  analysis  keys  and  the  thematic  overlaps.   The 
analysis  keys  consisted  of  some  20  sets  (2-3  photos  per  set)  of  photos,  a  soil 
and  vegetation  overlay  for  one  of  the  photographs,  locational  information 
(photo  number,   flight  line  number,  U.S.G.S.   quadrangle,  etc.)  and  a  descrip- 
tion of  resources  delineated.   The  thematic  overlays  consisted  of  transparent 
foils  keyed  to  the  appropriate  U.S.G.S.  quadrangles. 

Since  the  first  two  tasks  were  ancillary  to  the  project,  the 
remaining  part  of  this  report  will  emphasize  the  soil  and  vegetation  analysis 
procedures  and  the  processing  of  analysis  keys  and  resource  overlays. 


2 . 2        Soil  Mapping 

Several  difficulties  are  inherent  in  resource  mapping  by  means  of 
aerial  photography,  the  principal  one  being  that,  in  analyzing  an  image  of 
the  resource  rather  than  the  resource  itself,  it  is  impossible  to  directly 
observe  the  intrinsic  characteristics  of  the  resource.   In  the  case  of  soil 
mapping,  for  example,  the  image  analyst  is  denied  access  to  the  physical, 
chemical,  and  biological  properties  that  are  routinely  observed  in  the  field 
and  laboratory  and  used  as  the  basis  for  classifying  and  naming  a  soil  unit. 
Therefore,  the  task  of  the  image  analyst,  being  unable  to  classify  and  name, 
is  to  delineate  and  describe;  that  is,  to  differentiate  between  soil  units  on 
the  basis  of  surface  phenomena  and  to  designate  them  by  means  of  a  symbolic 
enumeration  of  their  attributes. 

The  principal  photo-pedologic  operation,  was  to  differentiate 
between  soil  units  on  the  basis  of  certain  criteria.   These  criteria  must 
satisfy  two  conditions:   1)  they  must  be  observable  on  the  aerial  photographs, 
and  2)  they  must  be  surrogates  of  naming  and  classifying  phenomena;  that  is, 
they  must  be  outward  and  visible  signs  of  intrinsic  physical,  chemical,  and 
biological  conditions.   In  the  pilot  California  Desert  Mapping  Program,  five 
differentiating  criteria  were  employed:   1)  parent  material;   2)  landform; 
3)  condition  of  fluvial  erosion;   4)  slope  and  5)  color.   Table  1  contains 
a  full  description  of  the  subsets  of  these  criteria  and  of  the  symbols  used 
to  denote  them. 

The  rationale  for  selecting  these  criteria  is  as  follows: 

Parent  Material*  -  In  desert  areas,  where  there  is  a  relatively  high  degree 
of  physical  disintegration  and  a  relatively  low  degree  of  chemical 
decomposition,  the  soils  retain  a  minerologic  composition  more  similar 
to  that  of  the  parent  material  than  in  humid  areas.   That  different 
parent  materials  produce  different  soils  is  indicated  by  the  frequently 


*The  term  "parent  material"  as  used  in  this  mapping  program,  refers  to  consoli- 
dated as  well  as  unconsolidated  rock  material.  Thus,  bare  rock  has  been  mapped 
as  a  "soil  unit"  as  have  been  unconsolidated  deposits  with  little  or  no  horizen 
development.  , 


TABLE  1  -  SOIL  DIFFERENTIATION 
SYSTEM  FOR  ARID  AREAS 


DIFFERENTIATING  CRITERIA 


SYMBOL 


I  PARENT  MATERIAL 

SEE  TABLE  2 

II  LAND  FORM 
A.    Plains 


1.  Alluvial  plain  (piedmont  plain, 
between  foot  of  mountain  or  fan, 
and  playa) 

2.  Stratigraphic  plain 

3.  Lava  plain 

4.  Ash  plain 

5.  Playa 

Negative  Topographic  Forms 

1.  Arroyo  bottom  (flat-bottom  channel 
between  steep  slopes) 

2.  Valley  bottom  (flat  or  concave 
portion  below  line  of  tangency  with 
slope) 

3 .  Swale 

4.  Crater 

5.  Caldera 

6.  Deflation  hollow 
Positive  Topographic  Forms 

1.  Alluvial  fan 

2.  Alluvial  terrace 

3.  Dune  -  created  by  wind 

-  created  by  waves  &  wind; 
beach  dune 

4.  Talus 

5.  Hilltop  (concave  or  flat  portion 
above  line  of  tangency  with  hillside) 

6.  Hillside  (between  lines  of  tangency 
with  hilltop  &  valley  bottom;  also 
used  for  sloping  plains  and  scarps) 


Two-letter  symbol 
modified  from  "Geologic 
Map  of  California", 
1:250,000,  Division  of 
Mines  and  Geology 


Pa 

Ps 
Pb 
Pv 
PI 

Ab 
Vb 

Sw 
Cr 
Ca 
Dh 

Af 
Te 
Du 
Bd 

Ta 
Ht 

Hs 


6. 


TABLE  1  -  CONTINUED 


DIFFERENTIATING  CRITERIA 
III   CHARACTERISTICS  OF  FLUVIAL  EROSION 
A.   Undisected 


B. 

C. 
D. 

IV    SLOPE 


Moderately  disected 

Severely  disected 

Concentrated  run-off  (areas  of  small,  closely 
spaced  or  braided  streams 


A. 

Flat-lying 

B. 

Gentle 

C. 

Moderate 

D. 

Steep 

COLOR 

A. 

Brown 

B. 

Gray 

C. 

Orange 

D. 

Purple 

E. 

Tan 

PAVEMENT 

A.  Pavement  covers  entire  surface 

B.  Pavement  covers  half  of  surface 
Explanation  of  soil  symbol  content  and  format: 


SYMBOL 

U 
M 
S 

c 


1 

2 
3 

4 

B 
G 
0 
P 

T 

W 
H 


I  Parent  Material   (Tertiary  intrusive) 

Tia  -  Af^-^^1'''  Lan^f°rm  (alluvial  fam) 


m  -  3  -  G 


III  Characteristics  of 
Fluvial  Erosion 
(Moderately  Disected) 


V  Color  (gray) 

If  pavement  were  present, 
its  symbol  would  be  included 
in  the  place  of  color. 


IV  Slope 
(moderate) 

7. 


observed  fact  that  changes  in  vegetation  occur  at  boundaries  of  soils 
that  are  identical  in  every  respect  excepting  that  of  parent  material. 
Parent  material  symbology  is  Shown  in  Table  2. 

Landf orm  -  Landforms  are  the  interim  results  of  erosional  and  depositional 

forces  acting  on  the  composition,  structure,  and  original  topographic 
position  of  the  parent  material.   It  is  reasonable  to  expect,  therefore, 
that  different  landforms  will  produce  different  soils,  and  this 
expectation  has  been  re-enforced  by  abundant  empirical  evidence.   For 
example,  everyone  is  well  aware  that  the  soil  of  an  alluvial  fan  is 
different  from  that  of  its  continuous  alluvial  plain,  and  the  soil 
of  the  plain  is  in  turn,  different  from  that  of  its  contiguous  playa. 

Condition  of  Fluvial  Erosion  -  The  extent  to  which  a  soil  unit  is  disected,  that 
is,  its  drainage  density  —  is  a  function,  among  other  things,  of  its 
permeability  and,  therefore,  of  its  texture.   Drainage  density,  then, 
is  an  approximate  surrogate  for  two  important  soil  classification 
criteria. 

Slope  -  That  the  degree  of  slope  influences  horizon  development  and  thickness 
is  axiomatic  in  soil  science. 

Color  -  In  most  cases  color  differences  were  obviously  the  result  of  differences 
in  parent  material  (alluvial  material  derived  from  granite  was  markedly 
different  in  color  from  that  derived  from  basalt)  or  of  differences 
in  landf orm  (in  going  from  upper  to  lower  bajada,  a  gradational  color 
change  usually  accompanied  a  gradational  landform  and  textural 
change).   Not  infrequently,  however,  soil  units  that  appeared 
identical  in  parent  material,  landform,  erosional  characteristics, 
and  slope  had  a  different  color.   Sometimes  the  cause  of  the  color 
difference  could  be  confidently  deduced,  such  as  in  an  alluvial  plain 
with  a  subtle  swell-and-swale  configuration  where  the  orange  tinge 
of  the  swells  could  be  ascribed  to  oxidation  and  the  grayish  tinge 
of  the  swales  to  reduction.   In  other  instances,  however,  the 
color  difference  was  purely  conjectural,  and  the  only  criterion  for 
differentiating  between  two  otherwise  apparently  identical  soils 
was  color. 

8. 


TABLE  2  -  SYMBOLS  FOR  PARENT  MATERIAL 
(Symbols  are  in  alphabetic  rather  than  stratigraphic  order) 

SYMBOL  ROCK  UNIT 

BI  Basic  intrusive 

GM  Pre-Cenozoic  granite  &  metamorphic  rocks 

GR  Mezozoic  granitic  rocks 

Mm  Pre-Cretacious  metamorphic  rocks 

Mn  Upper  Miocene  nonmarine 

Mp  Miocene  pyroclastic  rocks 

Ms  Pre-Cretaceous  metasedimentary  rocks 

Mv  Miocene  volcanic  rocks 

Pb  Pliocene  basalt 

Pc  Paleocene  nonmarine 

Pg  Precambrian  gneiss 

PI  Pliocene  nonmarine 

Pm  Precambrian  metamorphic  rocks 

Pn  Middle   and /or  lower  Pliocene  nonmarine 

Ps  Precambrian  schist 

Pv  Pliocene  volcanic  rocks 

Qa  Quaternary  alluvium 

Qb  Pleistocene  basalt 

Qc  Quaternary  channel  deposits 

Ql  Quaternary  lake  deposits 

Qn  Pleistocene  nonmarine 

Qp  Plio-Pleistocene  nonmarine 

Qs  Quaternary  salt  deposits 

Qt  Quaternary  non-marine  terrace  deposits 

Qv  Pleistocene  volcanic  rocks 

Ti  Tertiary  intrusive  rocks 

Tn  Tertiary  nonmarine 

Tv  Tertiary  volcanic  rocks 

Zm  Paleozoic  metavolcanics 

Zn  Paleozoic  marine 


There  is  a  sixth  differentiating  criterion  that  would  have  been  used 
had  this  program  been  involved  only  with  mapping  soils.   This  criterion  is, 
of  course,  vegetation,  which  was  mapped  as  a  separate  entity.   However,  when 
the  soil  and  vegetation  maps  are  combined  to  form  a  synthesized  map  of 
"ecological  units,"  a  soil  unit  that  is  found  to  support  two  different  types 
of  vegetation  will  be  subdivided  along  the  vegetational  boundary  with  the 
reasoning  that,  either  an  unidentified  soil  difference  caused  the  vegetation 
difference  or  the  differing  biological  activities  of  the  vegetation  have 
changed  the  soil  characteristics. 

2.2.1      Mapping  Practice  Procedure 

In  actual  mapping  practice,  all  of  the  land  surface  was  mapped,  rather 
than  only  those  surfaces  with  a  developed  soil  profile.   Thus  barren  areas  such 
as  bedrock  and  saline  playas  were  assigned  a  parent  material,  landform,  erosional 
state, slope,  and  color,  and  were  delineated  as  a  "soil"  unit.   This  procedure 
was  realistic  in  that  it  ensured  that  all  of  the  land  under  BLM  control,  soil 
or  not,  carried  a  meaningful  descriptor.   It  was  all  the  more  realistic  in 
that  it  was  found  that  very  little  of  the  land  was  truly  barren  —  even 
boulder  fields  supported  vegetation  in  soil  pockets  among  the  rocks,  and 
steep  bedrock  slopes  carried  vegetation,  sometimes  relatively  dense,  in 
fractures. 

The  mechanical  operation  of  the  mapping  was  not  the  step-by-step, 
methodical  process  that  had  been  anticipated.   It  was  expected,  before  the 
start  of  the  program,  that  a  parent  material  would  be  identified,  that  it 
would  be  subdivided  on  the  basis  of  landform,  and  that  it  would  be  further 
subdivided  on  the  basis  of  erosion,  slope,  and  color,  thereby  producing  a 
uniquely  defined  polygon  of  soil-.   However,  the  brain  is  a  good  pattern 
detector  and  works  faster  than  that,  combining  disparate  visual  phenomena 
into  attributes  of  a  single  whole.   For  example  what  would  frequently  be 
seen  • —  at  a  glance,  without  analysis  —  would  be  a  steep-sided,  jagged , 
pink,  granite  mountain,  or  a  smooth, rolling,  tan,  alluvial  plain.   In  other 
words,  it  often  happened  that  all  five  differentiating  criteria  would  be 
synthesized  by  eye  to  form  a  single  entity.   The  analytical  process  would 


10. 


then  consist  of  checking  to  see  if  the  parent  material  really  were  "granite" 
or  "alluvium",  of  converting  "smooth"  or  "jagged"  to  an  erosion  category, 
and  of  converting  "rolling"  or  "steep-sided"  to  a  slope  category.   This  was 
indeed,  a  methodical,  step-by-step  process  that  was  carried  out  as  follows: 

Step  One  -  The  parent  material  was  identified  by  means  of  a  geological  map. 
(The  state  of  California  is  covered  by  an  excellent  series  of  27 
map  sheets  at  a  scale  of  1:250,000).   The  photos,  at  1:20,000  showed 
many  small  lithologic  units  that  could  not  be  shown  on  the  small-scale 
map.   These  were  easily  identified  using  the  map  as  a  "key". 

Step  Two  -  The  landform,  seen  in  stereo  with  an  exaggerated  third  dimension, 
was  identified. 

Step  Three  -  The  degree  of  erosion  was  specified.   This,  unlike  parent  material 
and  landform,  was  a  subjective  criterion,  no  attempt  having  been  made 
to  assign  a  numerical  value  to  "undisected, "  "moderately  disected," 
and  "severely  disected".   This  could  be  done,  of  course,  but  it  would 
involve  making  a  measurement  for  each  soil  unit,  a  procedure  that 
would  add  considerably  to  the  cost  of  the  survey. 

Step  Four  -  A  slope  category  was  assigned.   This,  like  erosion,  was  subjective, 
and,  like  erosion,  could  be  made  a  measurable,  numerical  quantity  at 
the  expense  of  some  time  and  economy* 

Step  Five  -  The  color  of  the  soil  surface  was  specified.   In  most  cases,  this 
step  was  not  necessary  since  the  preceeding  four  differentiating 
criteria  had  already  provided  a  unique  discrimination  between  the 
soil  polygon  being  described  and  all  surrounding  polygons.   However, 
since  this  legend  was  digitized,  it  was  necessary  to  provide  a  symbol 
for  each  criterion  whether  applicable  or  not. 

Although  the  color  of  a  soil  unit  often  changed  from  one  flight 
line  to  another,  this  did  not  present  a  problem  since  the  color  per  se 
was  not  important.   The  purpose  of  including  color  as  a  differentiating 
criterion  was  to  show  that  a  difference  existed  between  two  otherwise 
similar,  adjacent  units. 


11 


In  the  case  of  soil  units  upon  which  a  partial  or  complete  desert 
pavement  had  developed,  the  color  symbol  was  omitted,  and  a  symbol 
for  pavement  was  inserted  in  its  place.   Two  pavement  symbols  were 
used  —  one  indicating  that  pavement  occupied  less  than  half  of 
the  surface  area  and  the  other  indicating  more  than  half. 

Once  each  soil  unit  had  been  differentiated  and  mapped,  it  was  then 
identified  by  means  of  five  symbols,  one  for  each  of  the  differentiating 
criteria.   An  example  of  the  identification  symbclogy  (exclusive  of  parent 
material  symbology)  is  shown  in  Table  1. 

A  connotative  legend  was  adopted  for  parent  material  and  landform. 
This  was  both  for  the  sake  of  brevity,  which  is  an  important  cost  consideration 
if  the  mapping  results  are  to  be  digitized,  and  because  no  widely  accepted 
non-connotative  system  of  landform  classification  exists. 

As  an  example  of  the  brevity  that  was  achieved  by  using  a  connotative, 
rather  than  digital,   legend,  it  is  instructive  to  look  at  a  time-rock  type  used 
on  the  Geologic  Map  of  California.   The  lithologic  type  "Middle  Miocene  Marine" 
is  identified  by  the  symbol  Mm.   In  order  to  identify  this  unit  by  a  universal, 
non-connotative,  numerical  system  would  require  one  digit  for  "Cenozoic",  another 
for  "Tertiary",  a  third  for  "Miocene",  a  fourth  for  "Middle",  and  a  fifth  for 
"marine".   In  addition,  a  universal  system  would  require  that  the  rock  type  be 
denoted.   The  Monterey  Formation  of  the  Middle  Miocene  Marine  is  described  as 
being  of  sandstone,  siltstone,  and  shale.   To  denote  this  unit,  at  least  two 
digits  would  be  required  for  "Monterey  Formation",  one  for  "sedimentary",  and 
two  each  for  "sandstone",  "siltstone",  and  "shale",  for  a  total  of  nine.   Adding 
nine  for  the  rock  type  and  five  for  the  age  give  a  grand  total  of  14  digits 
that  would  have  to  be  needed  to  describe  a  rock  unit  that  can  otherwise  be 
described  with  two.* 


*  The  Geologic  Map  of  California  uses  from  one  to  four  letters  to  identify 
each  rock  type.   A  minimum  of  two  letters  is  required  to  uniquely  identify 
each  of  the  82  types  mapped.   Therefore,  a  two-letter  system  was  adopted, 
following  the  map  legend  as  closely  as  possible.   (See  Table  2.) 


12. 


An  example  of  a  complete  soil  mapping  symbol,  as  used  in  this  program 
is  shown  on  the  bottom  of  Table  1. 

The  purpose  of  mapping  soils  by  means  of  aerial  photography  is  to 
provide  a  base  map  that  can  be  validated  on  a  selective  basis  by  field  crews. 
The  field  crews  will  have  two  tasks:   1)  to  determine  whether  the  differentiating 
criteria  do,  in  fact,  differentiate  between  soil  units  (It  is  quite  possible 
that  a  soils  developed  on  an  Eocene  rhyolite  will  not  differ  in  any  significant 
way  from  one  developed  on  an  Oligocene  rhyolite.);  and  2)  to  determine  the 
inherent  soil  properties  that  cannot  be  determined  by  image  analysis  and,  on 
this  basis,  to  classify  and  name  the  soils. 

2. 3        Vegetation  Mapping 

Traditionally,  vegetation  has  been  mapped  using  physiognomy 
(appearance)  and  floristic  composition  (species  present)  characteristics.   In 
his  text  on  vegetation  mapping,  Kuckler  defines  vegetation  as  "the  mosaic  of 
plant  communities  in  the  landscape."  A  plant  communitv  being  considered  as  a 
part  of  the  vegetation  that  is  relatively  uniform  in  structure  and  floristic 
composition.  Munz,  recognizes  some  29  plant  communities  in  California,  of 
which  only  five  were  present  in  the  pilot  area  (Shadscale  Scrub,  Creosote 
Bush  Scrub,  Alkali  Sink,  Pinyon  -  Juniper  Woodland  and  Joshua  Tree  Woodland). 

As  in  the  case  of  soil  mapping,  the  vegetation  image  analyst  is 
denied  continued  ground  access  to  the  morphology  of  individual  plants  and 
therefore  has  to  rely  on  their  macro-features  or  on  the  physiognomy  of  plants 
in  groups.   Unlike  the  soil  scientist's  situation,  in  which  he  cannot  classify 
and  name  soil  units  but  must  delineate  and  describe,  the  vegetation  analyst  can 
identify  certain  individual  plants  or  groups  of  plants  and  identify  units  to  a 
specified  level.   Such  units  are  not  completely  definitive,  however,  since 
they  are  dependent  on  the  image  characteristics  and  the  specific  classification 
system  selected  for  inventory  units. 


C 


13 


In  keeping  with  the  concept  that  this  study  was  not  a  comprehensive 
inventor^7  of  soil  and  vegetation  resources,  but  one  in  which  units  could  be 
subdivided  further  or  aggregated  into  larger  groups  depending  on  data  needs,  an 
existing  BLM  classification  system  was  selected. 

The  BLM  uses  some  18  vegetative  types  for  evaluating  range  using 
ocular  reconnaissance  techniques.   These  types  are  based  on  "aspect"  or  dominant 
and  co-dominant  species  as  seen  from  an  overall  ground  vantage  point .   The 
classification  is  amenable  to  photo  interpretation  techniques  in  that  the 
dominant  vegetation  characteristics  of  size  and  shape  are  readily  translated 
in  the  vertical  view. 

The  vegetation  classification  scheme  goes  beyond  the  plant  com- 
munities defined  by  Munz  but  does  not  extend  to  the  true  plant  association 
level  in  that  the  dominant  species  are  classified  while  leaving  out  the  forbs 
and  grasses.   The  legend  (Table  3)  was  ultimately  developed  by  using  seven 
of  tke  18  BLM  types  and  further  sub-dividing  by  adding  a  third  digit  for  co- 
dominant  vegetation  and  a  fourth  digit  for  extent  of  plant  cover  or  density; 
for  example  a  112-3  would  designate  a  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)*  and  Bursage  (Frdu) 
association  with  a  ground  cover  of  six  to  10  percent.   (See  Appendix  I  for  a 
description  of  vegetation  units  used  in  the  study.) 

2 .4        Manuscript  Production 

The  soils  and  vegetation  units  were  delineated  on  transparent 
overlays  using  alternate  photographs  in  each  flight  line.   The  problem  of 
compiling  composite  map  overlays  from  the  mosaic  of  individual  overlays  was 
accomplished  in  two  ways.   In  the  Mojave  area,  manual  projection  techniques 
were  employed  to  prepare  draft  manuscripts  for  later  photo  reduction  and 
scribing.   In  the  Yuha  area,  a  matrix  of  California  State  Plane  Grid  inter- 
sections at  5000  foot  intervals  were  developed  and  transferred  to  photographs 
and  overlays.   The  control  points,  line  segments  and  attributes  of  the  resource 


*  BLM  uses  a  four-letter  symbol  to  designate  species  by  combining  the  first 
two  letters  of  the  genus  and  species  name,  e.g.,  Larrea  divaricata  =  Ladi 

14. 


TABLE  3 
VEGETATION  LEGEND  FOR  CALIFORNIA  DESERT  PROGRAM 


080  Barren 

090  Pinyon  (Pimo)  -  Juniper  (Juca)  Associations 

091  Juniper  (Juca)  -  Prunus  (Prfa)  -  Yucca  (Yusc) 

092  Juniper  (Juca)  -  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi) 

093  Juniper  (Juca)  -  Ratany  (Krgr)  -  Agave  (Agde) 

094  Pine  (Pisa) 

110  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  Associations 

Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  Consociation 
Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Bursage  (Frdu) 

Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Bursage  (Frdu)  -  Ocotillo  (Fosp) 
Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Bursage  (Frdu)  -  Agave  (Agde) 
Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  (Shrub  Mixture)  -  Smoketree  (Dasp)  - 
Catclaw  (Acgr)  -  Desert  Willow  (Chli)  -  Cheesebush  (Hysa) 
Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  (Shrub  Mixture)  -  Saltbush  (Atco)  - 
Mesquite  (Prju)  -  Tamerisk  (Tape) 

Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  (Shrub  Mixture)  -  Scalebroom  (LeSg) 
Bladderpod  (Isar)  -  Saltbush  (Atca,  Atpo)  -  Cheesebush  (Hysa) 
Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  (Shrub  Mixture)  -  Horsebrush  (Test) 
Spiny  Hopsage  (Grsp)  -  Box-Thorn  (Lyca)  -  Saltbush  (Atca, 
Atpo) 

116  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Saltbush  (Atpo,  Atco,  Atca) 

117  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Bursage  (Frdu)  -  Brittlebush  (Enfa) 

118  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Cheesebush  (Hysa) 

119  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Cheesebush  (Hysa)  -  Bursage  (Frdu) 

120  Mesquite  (Prju)  Associations 

121  Mesquite  (Prju)  Consociation 

122  Mesquite  (Prju)  -  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi) 

123  Mesquite  (Prju)  -  Saltbush  (Atpo,  Atca)  -  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi) 
12A  Mesquite  (Prju)  -  Saltbush  (Atpo,  Atca) 


15. 


Ill 

112 

113 

114 

115 

115 

(A) 

115 

(B) 

115 

(C) 

130  Saltbush  (Atca,  Atco,  Atpo)  Associations 

131  Saltbush  (Atca,  Atco,  Atpo)  Consociation 

132  Saltbush  (Atca,  Atco,  Atpo)  -  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi) 

133  Saltbush  (Atca,  Atco,  Atpo)  -  Winterfat  (Eula) 

134  Saltbush  (Atca,  Atco,  Atpo)  -  Alkali  Blite  (Sufr)  -  Iodine 
Bush  (Aloe) 

140  Greasewood  (Save)  Associations 

141         Greasewood  (Save)  -  Saltbush  (Atco,  Atco,  Atpo) 

160  Desert  Shrub  Associations 

161  Ocotillo  (Fosp)  -  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Bursage  (Frdu) 

162  Joshua  Tree  (Yubr)  -  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi) 

163  Mountain  Shrub-  Brittle  Bush  (Enfa)  -  California  Tea  (Epca) 
-  Ratany  (Krgr)  -  Yucca  (Yush)  -  Buckwheat  (Erf a)  -  Rabbit 
Brush  (Chte)  -  Black  Brush  (Cora)  -  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)) 

164  Tamarisk  (Tape) 

165  Tamarisk  (Tape)  -  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi) 

166  Crucifixion  Thorn  (Haem) 

167  Joshua  Tree  (Yubr)  -  Saltbush  (Atco,  Atpo) 

168  Joshua  Tree  (Yubr)  -  Juniper  (Juca)  -  Bladder  Sage  (Same) 
Lycium  (Lyan)  -  Cotton  Thorn  (Teax)  -  Buckwheat  (Erf a) 

DENSITY  LEVELS 

PERCENT  GROUND  COVER  NUMERAL 

0-5  1 

6-10  2 

11-15  3 

16-20  4 

Over  20  5 


16. 


unit  polygons  were  digitized  directly  from  the  photographs,  processed  by  a 
computer,  and  printed  out,  in  rectified  form  by  an  on-line  plotter.   Several 
key  accomplishments  were  realized  through  this  process.   Large  groups  of 
individual  overlays  can  be  "mosaicked"  together  for  each  theme  (soils  and 
vegetation),  which  essentially  creates  two  large  overlay  composites.   In  this 
process,  all  type  boundaries  are  rectified  linearly  in  respect  to  each  of  four 
control  points.   From  these  digital  files  it  is  then  possible  to  use  an  output 
plotter  to  create  draft  manuscripts  keyed  to  1:24,000  or  1:62,500  USGS  maps  and 
if  desired  to  measure  acreages  of  each  resource  unit  by  specified  geographic 
area  and  resource  units,  using  available  NRIS  software. 

2 .5         Analysis  Keys 

During  the  course  of  the  program  two  types  of  analysis  keys  were 
developed:  1)  preliminary  and,  2)  final.   The  preliminary  keys  were  made 
following  the  first  extensive  period  of   field  work  in  January  and  consisted 
of  field  notes,  ground  photographs  and  photo  annotations.   These  were  used  to 
correlate  the  field  identified  shrubs  with  the  annotated  images  for  developing 
a  legend  of  vegetation  and  soil  units.   The  final  keys  were  made  following 
the  image  analysis  and  delineation  phase.   They  are  designed  as  training  aids 
for  future  analysis  work  to  emphasize  the  spectrum  of  soil  and  vegetation 
relationship  prior  to  using  the  resource  overlays  in  the  field. 

The  initial  plan  was  to  prepare  the  keys  as  mounted  stereo  pairs. 
However,  after  some  thought,  an  alternate  approach  was  taken.   Rather  than  cut 
out  part  of  a  photograph  we  felt  that  more  information  could  be  provided  the 
image  analysis  by  selecting  a  full  frame  and  providing  soil  and  vegetation 
transparent  overlays.   With  this  approach  the  analyst  could  study  the  photos 
without  annotations,  with  either  the  soil  and  vegetation  delineation  or  . 
correlate  delineations  for  both  resource  themes. 

A  total  of  20  keys  or  "image  sets"  were  selected  to  represent  the 
variety  of  vegetation  and  soil  conditions  encountered  within  the  two  study 
areas.   Each  set  consists  of  a  stereo  pair  or  stereo  triplet  with  transparent 


17. 


overlays  for  soils  and  vegetation  and  a  text  describing  significant  aspects  of 
the  scene.   The  key  package  is  amenable  to  reproduction.   Additional  color 
prints  can  be  acquired  from  the  aerial  survey  company,  the  text  is  page  size 
(8-%"  x  11")  and  can  be  duplicated  on  a  copy  machine  and  the  transparent 
overlays  can  be  used  to  produce  more  transparencies  either  in  color  or  black 
and  white  foils. 


18 


SECTION  3 
CONCLUSIONS 

3 . 1         Conclusions 

1.  The  1:20,000  scale  true-color  aerial  photograph  proved  to  be  the 
optimum  medium  for  extracting  soils  and  vegetation  data  to  satisfy  the  range 
of  data  required  by  the  BLM  Desert  Planning  Staff  and  District  Managers.   Had 
the  scale  been  smaller,  the  resource  units  would  have  had  to  be  more  generalized 
had  it  been  larger,  the  cost  effectiveness  of  larger  area  coverage  would  have 
been  reduced. 

2.  The  soils/vegetation  classification  system  provided  a  framework 
for  the  development  of  more  definitive  units  or  for  aggregation  into  more 
generalized  units. 


19. 


APPENDIX  I 


DESCRIPTIVE  LEGEND  FOR  VEGETATION  UNITS 
IN  THE  SOUTHERN  CALIFORNIA  DESERT. 


20. 


DESCRIPTIVE  LEGEND  FOR  VEGETATION 
UNITS  IN  THE  SOUTHERN  CALIFORNIA  DESERT 


080  Barren 

Although    the  vegetation   density   range  begins    at"0",    for   all 
practical  purposes  when   the   density   drops   below   1  percent 
an   area   is    considered  barren.      Typical  sites    include  badlands, 
playas,    dunes,    and   areas    of  man's    activity    (e.g.    cultivation, 
burning,   mining,    etc.) 

090     Pinyon    (Pimo)    -  Juniper    (Juca)   Association 

Three   of    the   four  sub-associations  were   found    in   the   southwest 
corner  of    the  Yuha   area  and   the   fourth,   094  was    found  in 
small  patches    on   the  highest   elevations   in  the  west-central 
part   of    the  Mojave   study    area. 

091  Juniper    (Juca)    -  Prunus    (prfa)    -  Yucca    (Yusc) 

The   prominent   species    in   this    community   are   Juniperous 
Californica,   Prunus    fasciculata  and  Yucca  schidigera. 
The   overall  vegetation  is    rich   in  variety   and   density 
and   some   of    the  highest   shrub    densities    in   the  Yuha 
were    found  within    this    group   —    forbs    and   grasses  were 
also  present.      Elevation   ranged   from   3000-4000   feet. 

092  Juniper    (Juca)    -   Creosote   Bush    (Ladi) 

This    is    a   transition   zone  between   the   091   group    and    the 
Creosote   Bush   -  Bursage    communities    found   at   lower    levels. 


21. 


As  with  most  units  in  the  legend  only  the  aspect  dominant 
species  are  given  in  the  group  title  while  a  larger  number 
of  shrubs,  forbs  and  grasses  are  ever  present,  sometimes  in 
larger  numbers  than  the  dominants. 

093  Juniper  (Juca)  -  Ratany  (Krgr)  -  Agave  (Agde) 

This  is  also  a  transition  community  between  the  higher 
elevations  and  the  desert  floor  and  is  common  to  rocky 
north  facing  slopes  in  the  Yuha  area.   Prominent  species 
are  Juniperous  calif ornica,  Krameria  Grayi  and  Agave 
deserti . 

094  Pine  (Pisa) 

This  is  the  only  pine  species  found  in  either  of  the 
study  areas  and  occurred  in  the  higher  mountains  west 
of  Koehn  Lake.   Its  scientific  name  is  Pinus  Sabiniana 
and  common  name  digger  pine.   It  is  more  common  to  the 
Foothill  Woodlands  than  the  Pinyon-Juniper  Community 
and  commonly  occurs  on  dry  slopes  and  ridges  below 
4500  feet. 

110   Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  Association 

It  is  axiomatic  that  the  Creosote  bush  and  its  various  asso- 
ciations dominate  the  Southern  Californian  Desert.   This  domi- 
nance is  expressed  throughout  the  vegetation  legend  and  most 
obvious  in  this  largest  group.   There  are  some    twelve  "types' 
within  this  group  with  Creosote  Bush  -  Burs  age  being  the  most 

22. 


common   association.      There   are    four  mixtures,    also   creosote 
bush   dominated  used   in  wash    complexes    (115,    115A,    115B   and   115C) 
While   the   use   of   an  additional   letter   departs    from  the   general 
system  it   serves    to   distinguish   very   quickly    this   particular  en- 
vironment.     Units    116-119    are   transition   groups   between   the   Salt- 
bush   and  Mountain  Shrub   Association. 

111  Creosote  Bush    (Ladi)    Consociation 

This  unit  was  included  to  cover  those  situations  where 

Creosote  Bush  only  was  present.   In  actual  practice  it 

was  used  very  little  or  not  at  all  since  Creosote  Bush 

did  not  occur  in  pure  stands  over  extensive  areas. 

112  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Bursage  (Frdu) 

This  is  the  most  common  association  throughout  the 
study  areas.   Larrea  divaricata  and  Franseria  dumosa  are 
the  prominent  species  and  together  they  are  found  on  well- 
drained  hills,  slopes,  fans  and  valleys  below  3500  feet. 

113   Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Bursage  (Frdu)  -  Ocotillo  (Fosp) 
This  particular  group  was  common  to  the  Yuha  area  but 
was  not  found  in  the  Mojave.   Munz  describes  the  Ocotillo 
as  occurring  on  dry  mostly  rocky  sites  below  2500  feet. 
However  it  occurred  with  the  two  associated  species  over 
many  of  the  well-drained,  sandy  flats  as  well. 


23 


114  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Bursage  (Frdu)  -  Agave  (Agde) 
This  association  was  found  in  the  Yuha  but  not  in  the 
Mojave  area.   It  occurred  in  middle  elevations  between 
the  112  types  on  the  lower  elevations  and  the  09  3  and 
163  (Mountain  shrub)  Associations  on  the  higher  eleva- 
tions.  The  vegetation  density  was  generally  high  and 
easily  recognizable  on  the  color  aerial  photographs. 

115  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Shrub  Mixture 

For  convenience  these  four  "wash  complexes"  will  be 
handled  as  one  group.   The  "115"  was  first  established 
to  handle  washes  in  the  higher  and  middle  elevations 
in  the  Yuha  area  where  the  smoke  trees,  desert  willows, 
and  Acacia  predominate.   It  was  soon  realized  that 
other  species  such  as  saltbush,  mesquite  and  tamerisk 
were  more  common  in  washes  on  the  lower  elevations. 
When  work  began  in  the  Mojave  area  it  was  discovered 
that  other  species  such  as  scale  broom  (Lepidospartum 
squamatum)  were  commonly  found  in  washes  on  the  higher 
elevations  while  Horsebrush  (Tetradymia  stenolepis)  and 
saltbush  species  were  common  to  the  lower  elevations. 
Other  species  were  common  to  the  lower  elevations. 
Other  species  such  as  cheesebrush  are  more  universally 
distributed  throughout  most  washes  and  also  were  found 
on  more  well-drained  slopes  at  higher  elevations. 


24. 


116   Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Saltbush  (Atpo,  Atco,  Atca) 

This  association  occurs  very  infrequently  and  then  only 
as  a  transition  zone  between  the  Creosote  Bush  and  more 
saline  tolerant  shrubs  at  lower  elevations  and  between  the 
shadscale  scrub  and  Creosote  bush  at  higher  levels.   Units 
that  had  been  typed  116' s  on  the  lower  part  of  the  Mojave 
area  were  later  changed  to  112 '  s  after  field  checking. 

117  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Bursage  (Frdu)  -  Brittlebush  (Enfa) 
This  type  was  used  to  denote  the  transition  between  the 
112 's  on  the  slopes  and  alluvial  fans  and  the  163' s  on 
the  higher  elevations.   It  was  common  on  north-facing 
slopes  between  2000  and  3000'  elevation  in  the  Mojave 
area. 

118  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Cheesebush  (Hysa) 

119  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Cheesebush  (Hysa)  -  Bursage  (Frdu) 
Neither  of  these  units  were  seldom  or  ever  used  in  the 
inventory.   They  were  included  in  the  legend  based  on 
the  field  survey.   However  in  actual  practice  there 
were  no  image  characteristics  that  would  allow  separa- 
tion of  the  Cheesebush  from  the  Bursage  shrubs  hence 

all  such  units  were  probably  given  the  designation  112. 


25 


120   Mesquite  (Prju)  Association 

All  of  these  associations  were  found  in  the  Yuha  Area  only 
and  occurred  primarily  as  a  transition  zone  between  the 
Creosote  Bush  on  the  higher  elevations  and  the  Alkali  sink 
or  "playa  related"  Saltbush  communities  in  the  lower  eleva- 
tions. 

121  Mesquite    (Prju)    Consociation 

In   certain  parts    of    the  Yuha  Area,   mesquite  was    found 
in  pure   stands    and   thus    assigned   this    type. 

122  Mesquite    (Prju)    -   Creosote   Bush    (Ladi) 

123  Mesquite    (Prju)    -   Saltbush    (Atpo,    Atca)    -   Creosote   Bush    (Ladi) 

124  Mesquite    (Prju)    -   Saltbush    (Atpo,   Atca) 

All   three   sub-associations    fall  within   the   transition 
category   as   described  earlier  and  were  used   to   express 
relative   sub-dominance  mixtures   in  predominantly  mesquite 
types . 

130        Saltbush    (Atca,   Atco,   Atpo)   Associations 

These  Associations    are   found  in   two  widely   divergent   environ- 
ments,   the   Shads cale   Scrub    and   the  Alkali   Sink,   plus   some 
intermediate   levels  between.      Since   they   do  occur  in  such 
variable   areas    each  unit  warrants    amplification. 

26. 


131  Saltbush  (Atca,  Atco ,  Atpo)  Consociation 

This  type  is  used  to  denote  vegetation  units  on 
the  higher  elevations  (Shadscale  Scrub)  as  well  as  those 
nearer  the  desert  floor  (Alkali  Sink) .   The  shrubs  Atriplex 
canes cens  and  Atriplex  confertifolia  dominate  the  former 
while  Atriplex  polycarpa  dominates  the  latter.   Since  the 
environments  are  completely  different  an  individual  should 
be  able  to  determine  from  the  mapped  units  what  shrubs 
would  likely  be  most  dominant. 

132  Saltbush  (Atca,  Atco,  Atpo)  -  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi) 

This  is  basically  a  transition  type  between  the  Shadscale 
Scrub  on  the  upper  levels  and  the  Alkali  sink  fringe  on 
the  lower  levels . 

133  Saltbush  (Atca,  Atco,  Atpo)  -  Winterfet  (Eula) 

This  unit  was  added  to  the  saltbush  associates  after  the 
field  survey.   Like  units  118  and  119  it  did  not  seem 
possible  to  differentiate  between  Eurotia  lanata  and 
other  saltbushes  on  the  aerial  photographs  and  therefore 
all  of  the  areas  of  this  combination  were  included  in  the 
131  unit. 


' 


i 


27 


134   Saltbush  (Atca,  Atco,  Atpo)  -  Alkali  Blite  (Sufr)  -  Iodine 
'  Bush  (Aloe) 

This  type  is  common  to  the  lowest  levels  on  the  desert 

floor  called  alkali  sinks.   Of  the  three  saltbushes 

shown  in  the  parentheses  ,  Atriplex  polycarpa  would  be 

found  on  the  outer  fringe  of  this  environment  while 

Suaeda  fruticosa  and  Allenrolfea  occidentalis  would  be 

found  in  the  most  saline  areas  supporting  vegetation. 

140   Greasewood  (Save)  Associations 

141  Greasewood  (Save)  -  Saltbush  (Atca,  Atco,  Atpo) 

This  unit,  like  several  others  in  the  legend  before  it, 
was  included  as  a  result  of  the  field  work.   One  small 
Greasewood  unit  was  found  in  the  Trona  part  of  the  Mojave 
Area  but  the  resource  unit  was  not  used  in  the  mapping 
program. 

160   Desert  Shrub  Association 

This  whole  group  is  a  mixture  of  non-related  but  significant 
vegetation  units.   Eight  units  are  included  with  163  (Mountain 
Shrub)  having  the  most  vegetation  variety  and  also  the  widest 
distribution  over  the  study  areas. 


28. 


161  ■ Ocotillo  (Fosp)  -  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi)  -  Bursage  (Frdu) 

This  unit  is  very  closely  related  to  113  where  the 
vegetation  is  the  same  except  for  the  relative  distribu- 
tion.  This  particular  unit  provides  the  opportunity  to 
represent  Ocotillo  dominated  sites. 

162  Joshua  Tree  (Yuba)  -  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi) 

This  unit  was  included  in  the  desert  shrub  category  even 
though  the  Joshua  trees  may  be  very  sparse  and  the  site 
dominated  by  Creosote  bush.   This  action  was  justified  on 
the  basis  of  the  importance  of  scattered  Joshua  trees  for 
bird  life  and  the  practical  limitation  of  no  Creosote  Bush 
category  being  available. 

163  Mountain  Shrub  -  Brittle  Bush  (Enfa)  -  California  Tea  (Epca) 
-  Ratany  (Krgr)  -  Yucca  (Yush)  -  Buckwheat  (Erfa)  - 

Rabbit  Brush  (Chte)  -  Black  Brush  (Cora)  -  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi) 

As  indicated  previously  this  type  includes  a  wide  variety 
of  shrubs,  forbs  and  grasses  growing  on  higher  elevation 
(above  3500  feet)  and  north-facing  slopes.   This  group 
is  generalized  on  the  basis  that  essentially  no  differen- 
tiating criteria  are  available  in  the  imagery  to  sort  out 
specific  shrubs. 


29. 


164  Tamerisk  (Tape) 

This  type  was  found  primarily  along  water  courses  and  irri- 
gated areas  between  the  southeastern  edge  of  the  Yuha  area 
and  the  cropland  in  the  Imperial  Valley  west  of  El  Centre 

165  Tamerisk  (Tape)  -  Creosote  Bush  (Ladi) 

This  unit  was  used  to  show  the  transition  between  the 
previous  unit  (164)  and  the  more  creosote  dominated 
units  of  the  natural  desert  environment. 

166  Crucifixion  Thorn  (Haem) 

This  shrub  was  included  to  accommodate  the  BLM-protected 
area  in  the  southwestern  part  of  the  Yuha. 

167  Joshua  Tree  (Yubr)  -  Saltbush  (Atco,  Atpo) 

The  transition  zone  between  the  Shadscale  Scrub  and 
Joshua  Tree  woodland  is  filled  by  this  unit.   The  Joshua 
trees  are  generally  more  abundant  than  in  the  162  since 
the  elevation  where  this  unit  occurs  is  much  higher. 
The  saltbush  species  are  generally  atriplex  conferti- 
folia  and  atriplex  polycarpa. 

168  Joshua  Tree  (Yubr)  -  Juniper  (Juca)  -  Bladdersage 
(Same)  -  Lycium  (Lyan)  -  Cotton  Thorn  (Teap)  and 
Buckwheat  (Erfa) 

This  unit  is  generally  referred  to  as  the  Joshua  Tree 

Woodland  and  occurs  at  the  higher  elevations  (above  3000') 

in  the  Mojave  area. 

30. 


Bureau  of  Land  Management 

Library 

8!dg.  50,  Denver  Federal  Center 

Denver,  CO  80225 


