AUTHENTICATED 
U.S. GOVERNMENT 
INFORMATION ^ 


S. Hrg. 107-980 

THE TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY 
AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 


HEARING 

BEFORE THE 

COMMITTEE ON 

BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN AFFAIRS 
UNITED STATES SENATE 

ONE HUNDRED SEVENTH CONGRESS 
SECOND SESSION 
ON 

THE TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY AND THE FINANCIAL DISCLO- 
SURES THE AUTHORITY MAKES FOR THE BENEFIT OF BONDHOLDERS 
AND POTENTIAL INVESTORS 


SEPTEMBER 17, 2002 


Printed for the use of the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 



89-115 PDF 


U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 
WASHINGTON : 2003 


For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office 
Internet: bookstore.gpo.gov Phone: toll free (866) 512—1800; DC area (202) 512-1800 
Fax: (202) 512-2250 Mail: Stop SSOP, Washington, DC 20402-0001 


COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN AFFAIRS 

PAUL S. SARBANES, Maryland, Chairman 
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, Connecticut PHIL GRAMM, Texas 

TIM JOHNSON, South Dakota RICHARD C. SHELBY, Alabama 

JACK REED, Rhode Island ROBERT F. BENNETT, Utah 

CHARLES E. SCHUMER, New York WAYNE ALLARD, Colorado 

EVAN BAYH, Indiana MICHAEL B. ENZI, Wyoming 

ZELL MILLER, Georgia CHUCK HAGEL, Nebraska 

THOMAS R. CARPER, Delaware RICK SANTORUM, Pennsylvania 

DEBBIE STABENOW, Michigan JIM BUNNING, Kentucky 

JON S. CORZINE, New Jersey MIKE CRAPO, Idaho 

DANIEL K. AKAKA, Hawaii JOHN ENSIGN, Nevada 

Steven B. Harris, Staff Director and Chief Counsel 
Wayne A. Abernathy, Republican Staff Director 
Dean V. Shahinian, Counsel 

Steve R. Patterson, Republican Subcommittee Staff Director 
Michelle R. Jackson, Republican Counsel 
Daris Meeks, Republican Counsel 

Joseph R. Kolinski, Chief Clerk and Computer Systems Administrator 
George E. Whittle, Editor 

(II) 



CONTENTS 


TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2002 

Page 

Opening statement of Chairman Sarbanes 1 

Opening statements, comments, or prepared statements of: 

Senator Bunning 2 

Senator Enzi 3 

WITNESSES 

Skila Harris, Director, Tennessee Valley Authority 5 

Prepared statement 35 

Alan L. Beller, Esq., Director, Division of Corporate Finance, U.S. Securities 

and Exchange Commission 7 

Prepared statement 39 

Craven Crowell, Chairman, GCW Consulting; former Chairman, Tennessee 

Valley Authority 22 

Prepared statement 42 

Allan G. Pulsipher, Executive Director, Center for Energy Studies, Marathon 

Oil Company Professor of Energy Policy, Louisiana State University 25 

Prepared statement 44 

Daniel Gates, Managing Director, Moody’s Investors Service 28 

Prepared statement 46 

Additional Material Supplied for the Record 

Letter to Chairman Paul S. Sarbanes, from Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr., Director, 

OMB, dated September 16, 2002 49 

Revised letter to Chairman Paul S. Sarbanes, from Mitchell E. Daniels, 

Jr., Director, OMB, dated September 16, 2002 50 


(HI) 




THE TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY 
AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 


TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2002 

U.S. Senate, 

Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, 

Washington, DC. 

The Committee met at 10:37 a.m. in room SD-538 of the Dirksen 
Senate Office Building, Senator Paul S. Sarbanes (Chairman of the 
Committee) presiding. 

OPENING STATEMENT OF CHAIRMAN PAUL S. SARBANES 

Chairman Sarbanes. The hearing will come to order. 

This morning, the Committee meets to hold a hearing with 
respect to the Tennessee Valley Authority and the financial dis- 
closures the Authority makes for the benefit of bondholders and 
potential investors. 

During the Committee’s markup of the accounting and investor 
protection legislation, Senator Bunning offered a proposal to make 
the TVA subject to the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. 

At the time, and since we were really focusing in a different di- 
rection, I indicated to Senator Bunning that I would be happy to 
hold a hearing on this issue. Therefore, we did not address it in the 
course of that markup. Other Members of the Committee have also 
expressed an interest in this issue, including Senator Miller, and 
others. 

The TVA, of course, is a Federal corporation created by Congress 
in 1933, pursuant to the Tennessee Valley Authority Act. Today, 
TVA is the Nation’s largest public power company and has oper- 
ating revenues of over $7 billion. Its power service area covers 
80,000 square miles in the southeastern United States, including 
almost all of Tennessee and parts of Kentucky, Georgia, Alabama, 
Mississippi, North Carolina, and Virginia. I hope I have them all. 

Ms. Harris. Yes, you do. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Unlike public corporations, the TVA is 
owned entirely by the U.S. Government. In other words, it has no 
public shareholders. It is governed by a three-member Board of Di- 
rectors, each of whom is appointed by the President and confirmed 
by the Senate. TVA funds itself by selling electricity to customers, 
as well as by selling bonds and raising capital through other non- 
equity financing. It has approximately $25 billion of debt out- 
standing and securities are held by over 200,000 individuals and 
institutions. 

The TVA published annual and quarterly reports, information 
statements, offering circulars, of course, press releases, and other 

(l) 



2 


data for the benefit of investors. Its financial statements are cer- 
tified by a major accounting firm and it is, of course, subject to the 
oversight of the Congress, the Comptroller General, and an inter- 
nal Inspector General. 

TVA is not required, however, by Federal law to make specific 
disclosures for investors or file prospectuses or periodic reports 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Se- 
curities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

The Committee looks forward this morning to hearing testimony 
about the extent of the disclosures that TVA provides for the ben- 
efit of investors, to look at the question of whether TVA should pro- 
vide additional disclosures, and the further question of the pros 
and cons of requiring by Federal law that the TVA should provide 
specific disclosures, such as those that would be required if they 
were subject to the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Act 
of 1934. 

We have a number of, we think, distinguished witnesses with us 
this morning. It is our intention to proceed with two panels. 

The first panel will be Ms. Skila Harris, a Member of the TVA 
Board of Directors. She was confirmed by the Senate in November 
of 1999, for a term that extends to May of 2008. Previously, Ms. 
Harris worked at private engineering and management consulting 
firms, held positions with the U.S. Synthetic Fuels Corporation and 
the U.S. Department of Energy. She serves on the boards of the 
Knoxville Area Chamber Partnership and the East Tennessee 
Foundation. 

I will defer introducing the second panel until they come to the 
table, but our other witness on this panel is Alan Beller, Director 
of the Division of Corporate Finance of the SEC. Mr. Beller has in- 
creased the frequency of the Division’s review of disclosure filings, 
implemented regulatory initiatives that improve the filings of pub- 
lic companies. Of course, the SEC is very much in the spotlight 
nowadays, including, amongst the other Divisions, the one that Mr. 
Beller directs. Mr. Beller is an expert on corporate and securities 
law and previously was a partner of the law firm of Clary, Gottlieb, 
Steen, and Hamilton. 

We had invited the Office of Management and Budget to testify. 
But they apparently found themselves unable to send a witness, so 
we will not hear directly from the OMB this morning. 

Before I turn to the witnesses, I will yield to my colleagues. 

Senator Bunning. 

STATEMENT OF SENATOR JIM BUNNING 

Senator Bunning. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to 
thank you for holding this very important hearing. 

I hope Members remember that back during the markup of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Accounting Standards bill, I had an amendment to 
place the Tennessee Valley Authority under the jurisdiction of the 
SEC. The Chairman was kind enough to agree to hold a hearing 
on this matter and I appreciate his doing so so quickly. He and his 
staff — and there are a bunch of them, so, I want to thank them for 
their hard work for setting this up — have done their usual profes- 
sional job. I also appreciate the witnesses coming today very much. 



3 


Although it is called the Tennessee Valley Authority, it means a 
lot more to many of my constituents in Kentucky. I know some 
here may be wondering what in the world does the Banking Com- 
mittee have to do with the TVA? The fact of the matter is that the 
TVA has no regulatory body oversight of any kind by anyone, ex- 
cept the Congress of the United States. So it is up to us to keep 
an eye on what is going on with the TVA. 

In the context of the Banking Committee, TVA has a tremendous 
amount of publicly-traded debt, about $20 billion worth. And it has 
a Aaa rating. But this rating is largely due to the fact that TVA 
is owned by the Federal Government and can unilaterally raise its 
electricity rates. There are investors all over the country that have 
bought TVA bonds because it is owned by the Government. But no- 
body really oversees TVA. 

In light of all the recent problems we have seen in financing of 
private-sector companies, it only seems fitting that Congress makes 
sure that someone is watching out for the TVA investors. Right 
now, they do not have all of the same consumer protections that 
most other bondholders enjoy. We do not need an Enron in the 
middle of the Tennessee Valley. 

To help protect against any problems at TVA, I proposed extend- 
ing the SEC’s oversight to TVA. If it is good enough for the private 
sector, I think we need to closely look at imposing the same ac- 
countability to quasi-government groups like TVA. 

I would like to see more disclosure. I would like to see more ac- 
countability. For all we know, everything might be going just fine 
at TVA, but we do not know right now. 

Mr. Chairman, to be fair, I do not think we should ask TVA to 
do anything more than private-sector companies do. But I do not 
think we should ask them to do less, either. Too many investors 
have too much money invested here for us not to be sure and not 
to exercise fair and thorough oversight. 

At the very least, I would like to see the TVA follow Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac’s lead and voluntarily register with the SEC. I 
cannot understand why that would be an unnecessary burden. For 
instance, if they trade securities on the New York Stock Exchange, 
which they do, they should have to follow the same rules as others 
who trade on the Exchange. 

Mr. Chairman, I am not here to bash TVA. Everybody knows 
what they have done for the southeastern United States and appre- 
ciate the long legacy of their service to our part of the country. But 
given some of the problems that they have had in running up debt, 
and given the disputes that they have had with OMB over some 
of their financing, I am concerned that we have not been keeping 
a close enough watch on TVA. I think it is time to change that, and 
today’s hearing is a good start. 

Thank you again, Mr. Chairman, for holding this hearing. I am 
looking forward to hearing from our witnesses. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Good. Thank you, Senator Bunning. 

Senator Enzi. 

STATEMENT OF SENATOR MICHAEL B. ENZI 

Senator Enzi. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I thank you for 
your willingness to hold this hearing today. 



4 


I would like to thank the witnesses for agreeing to testify and 
to Senator Bunning, who has raised this important issue several 
times and recognized the need for this Committee to evaluate the 
status of the Tennessee Valley Authority. 

In looking at some of the statistics on the Tennessee Valley Au- 
thority, it was kind of a surprise to me to find out that their service 
area is 20 percent less than the size of the State of Wyoming. How- 
ever, it serves six times as many people and has an incredible 
amount of more water, as Senator Bunning knows from having vis- 
ited my State just recently. 

But it provides a tremendous service, and I would like to begin 
by commenting that I believe this hearing is very timely, with the 
problems in corporate America. It also coincides with the focus of 
the Congress, Federal and State regulators, and the Exchanges 
have placed on the need for greater transparency. 

This Committee, for one, has led the way in working to provide 
assurances to investors that we will work to assure them that they 
are given the information they need and deserve to make appro- 
priate investor decisions. 

Recent passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has transformed the 
disclosure and independence requirements of corporate America. 
No longer will corporate insiders have the information to make in- 
formed decisions, while average investors are left in the dark. I am 
proud that Congress acted as expeditiously as possible and the bill 
is being implemented by the appropriate regulators as we speak. 
I would also like to commend the TVA for agreeing to adopt many 
of the requirements imposed by the Act and being adopted by the 
Commission. 

While companies who list securities must be registered with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission, the TVA is left entirely un- 
regulated by the SEC because they are a Government-owned cor- 
poration. I find this very troubling and hard to believe that they 
exist without direct supervision by a specific Federal regulator. The 
primary mission of the SEC is to protect investors. Investors in 
TVA are left without this Government watchdog protecting their 
investments. The SEC has the background and experience to evalu- 
ate the disclosures of companies and should be able to watch these 
books as well. 

I know that, historically, other companies have enjoyed exemp- 
tions from registration with the SEC. However, these companies 
have recognized the need for their investors to have the same infor- 
mation as other companies. 

I was very pleased when Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac volun- 
tarily registered with the SEC a few months ago, and they are to 
be commended for their actions. I believe this initiative may need 
to be imposed on the TVA. We must work to retain integrity in the 
debt markets to protect investors and to provide uniformity in dis- 
closure statements so that they can be interpreted accurately. 

Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for holding this hearing. I ap- 
preciate your diligence with this issue and I look forward to hear- 
ing from our witnesses. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Well, thank you very much, Senator Enzi. 

We will now turn to our panel. We will hear from both of our dis- 
tinguished witnesses before we turn to questions. 



5 


Ms. Harris, why don’t we start with you, please. 

STATEMENT OF SKILA HARRIS 
DIRECTOR, TENNESSEE V AL LEY AUTHORITY 

Ms. Harris. Thank you, Chairman Sarbanes, Senator Bunning. 

Chairman Sarbanes. If you pull that microphone closer to you 
and speak directly into it, it will be helpful to us. 

Ms. Harris. Thank you, Chairman Sarbanes, Senator Bunning, 
and Senator Enzi. It is a pleasure to be here. 

My name is Skila Harris and I am one of the three Directors of 
the Tennessee Valley Authority. On behalf of my colleagues, Chair- 
man Glenn McCullough and Director Bill Baxter, and the employ- 
ees of TVA, I thank you for this opportunity to speak with you 
about TVA’s financial disclosure and oversight. I would also like to 
tell you, as Senator Enzi mentioned, about plans that TVA has to 
uphold the spirit of the landmark Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

TVA exists to serve the public good. The standard that we hold 
ourselves to for leadership is to achieve excellence in business per- 
formance and in public service, for the good of the people through- 
out the Tennessee Valley. TVA improves the quality of life of the 
citizens of the Tennessee Valley in several different ways — through 
integrated management of the Tennessee River system, through 
environmental stewardship, and by supporting sustainable eco- 
nomic development throughout the area. 

Through its local power distributors, TVA supplies power to 8.3 
million people, as Senator Sarbanes mentioned, over an 80,000- 
mile square area. TVA accomplishes all of this with no Federal- 
appropriated funds and finances 100 percent of its programs with 
power revenues. 

As a corporation of the Federal Government, TVA does not issue 
stock, and therefore, its business goals are not oriented toward 
earnings. Instead, our decisionmaking is focused on adding value 
to the customers and to the communities across the Tennessee Val- 
ley. And that value is defined in the TVA Act. 

Recognizing this difference, the oversight Congress put in place 
for TVA is different from the oversight provided for publicly-traded 
companies. But make no mistake — as a Government agency, TVA 
is subject to oversight. 

TVA is managed by a three-person Board, as I mentioned. That 
Board is nominated by the President and confirmed by this body, 
the U.S. Senate. It can also be removed by the President. 

Like many other Government agencies, TVA has an independent 
Inspector General. And I have with me today, Mr. Don Hickman, 
who is TVA’s Acting Inspector General. TVA’s Inspector General 
conducts audits of the TVA’s financial systems, its business deci- 
sions, its operations, and its contracts. The Office of the Inspector 
General reports to Congress and to the public on a regular basis 
the results of its audits and its investigations. 

TVA’s Inspector General performs many of the functions that 
have been identified in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as functions of the 
internal audit committee. But it does so with much more authority 
and many more professional resources. 

For example, the Inspector General’s staff that reviews and au- 
dits TVA’s financing statements includes 19 certified public ac- 



6 


countants. The Inspector General can investigate not only financial 
matters, but also any matter which might relate to criminal or eth- 
ical violations at TVA. Also, by Federal statute, the Office of In- 
spector General is independent of the TVA Board. TVA also has an 
external independent auditor — PricewaterhouseCoopers. The TVA 
Office of Inspector General provides oversight of that firm’s work 
and maintains the budget for PWC’s annual audit of TVA. 

PricewaterhouseCoopers audits TVA’s financial statements in ac- 
cordance with Government auditing standards and provides an 
opinion on whether those statements are presented in conformity 
with generally accepted accounting principles. TVA’s financial re- 
sults are also included in the Federal Government’s consolidated fi- 
nancial statements, which are audited by the General Accounting 
Office. 

In addition, Congress, as we see today, functions in an important 
oversight role for the Tennessee Valley Authority. The General Ac- 
counting Office frequently performs audits of TVA, and its activi- 
ties, and its programs often at the request of Members of Congress. 
GAO is authorized to audit TVA’s financial statements. 

TVA also files reports with the President, the Congress, the U.S. 
Treasury, and included in these annual reports contains financial 
statements and a complete record and report on TVA’s business ac- 
tivities. And TVA submits an annual budget to the President. 

Furthermore, before TVA can issue bonds with maturities of 1 
year or more, the Secretary of the Treasury must approve the time 
of issuance, as well as the maximum interest rate to be charged. 
And since most of TVA’s bonds are traded either on the New York 
Stock Exchange or bond exchange, and they must meet all of the 
New York Stock Exchange’s through its listing requirements. 

By law, all TVA employees must adhere to the standards of eth- 
ical conduct for Federal employees. This requires all officers of the 
Tennessee Valley Authority to complete ethics training and file 
very detailed financial disclosure statements annually. In addition 
to these requirements, and consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 
TVA will develop a special code of financial standards of conduct 
for all officers and business managers, and will provide associated 
training with those new standards. 

Also beginning in 2003, which is only weeks away, TVA’s Annual 
Report will be certified by the TVA’s Board of Directors and CFO 
(the financial statements and the related information for the pre- 
vious years.) In addition, the Information Statement, which is 
TVA’s primary disclosure report to the public financial markets, 
will also be certified. 

Because TVA is wholly owned by the U.S. Government and does 
not issue stock, there are no stock options to provide to TVA Direc- 
tors and Officers. In addition, TVA does not presently provide loans 
to its officers or Board of Directors and plans to make this its prac- 
tice in the future. 

In terms of auditor independence, beginning next fiscal year, 
TVA will not enter into any new contracts with its external auditor 
and TVA will phase out all of its existing consulting and actuarial 
services currently performed by PWC. 

TVA is taking several other steps to ensure auditor independence 
comparable to those in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. TVA will require 



7 


rotation of the leading audit partners and TVA also will prohibit 
the hiring of the CFO, Controller, or Chief Accounting Officer, from 
an independent auditor within a year after working on the TVA 
contract. 

As I mentioned, TVA issues quarterly financial reports and an 
Annual Report that include audited financial statements. These are 
similar in content and in timing to the SEC’s 10(k) and 10(q) 
forms. We also provide information statements and offering circu- 
lars similar to those prospectuses for publicly-traded corporations. 
TVA also issues news releases and we have a system for automatic 
notification by e-mail of any material events that take place rel- 
ative to our financial conditions. This is similar to, I believe, the 
SEC form 8(k). 

Also, I must say that uniquely among companies that I know, 
TVA board meetings and all of our decisions are made in a public 
setting where even the media is present. 

To further comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, TVA is forming 
a Disclosure Committee to document procedures for reporting 
material events and occurrences on a more timely basis and to 
improve the information flow to the public and specifically our 
investors. 

TVA meets regularly with its largest investors. We also hold an 
annual investor and financial analyst meeting where we provide 
substantial information, and we are there to respond to their ques- 
tions. I brought with me to submit to the Committee a sampling 
of the reporting that TVA provides to not only the public, but also 
to our investors, in addition to the Congress and to the President. 

In conclusion, as I have described, TVA has in place a number 
of mechanisms that ensure that we conduct business in an open 
and forthright manner. And we are committed to doing even more 
to ensure that we earn your confidence, your support, and the con- 
tinuing trust and commitment of our investors, our customers, and 
the citizens of the Tennessee Valley. 

I look forward to addressing your questions later. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Good. Thank you very much. 

Mr. Beller. 


STATEMENT OF ALAN L. BELLER, ESQ. 

DIRECTOR, DIVISION OF CORPORATE FINANCE 
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Mr. Beller. Thank you, Chairman Sarbanes, Senator Bunning, 
and Senator Enzi. 

I am Alan Beller, the Director of the Division of Corporate Fi- 
nance at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. I am 
pleased to have this opportunity to testify before you on behalf of 
the Commission regarding the application of disclosure and report- 
ing requirements of the Federal securities laws to the Tennessee 
Valley Authority. From its creation in 1933, incidentally, the same 
year that the first of the Federal securities laws was enacted, TVA 
has been wholly owned by the U.S. Government and is considered 
an agency and instrumentality of the United States. 

TVA is currently authorized to issue only debt and to borrow up 
to $30 billion. Until 1959, any indebtedness incurred by TVA was 



8 


backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. In 1959, 
Congress eliminated this full faith and credit backing. 

TVA has stated that it issues bonds in a variety of structures 
and sells its bonds to institutional and individual investors on a 
global basis. Many of TVA’s debt securities are listed and traded 
on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Since TVA is an agency and instrumentality of the United 
States, the offer and sale by TVA of its debt securities are exempt 
from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, and its se- 
curities are within the definition of exempted securities and Gov- 
ernment securities under the Exchange Act. In addition, as part of 
the 1959 legislation, Congress explicitly exempted the issuance and 
sale of TVA bonds from the requirements or limitations of any 
other law, including the Federal securities laws. Therefore, TVA 
does not register the offerings of its debt securities under the Secu- 
rities Act, and its debt, including debt that is listed on the New 
York Stock Exchange, is not subject to registration under the Ex- 
change Act. TVA is also not subject to the provisions of the re- 
cently-enacted Sarbanes-Oxley Act, although they have indicated 
this morning, that they intend to comply voluntarily with a number 
of those provisions. 

Congressional action would be required to eliminate the various 
statutory exemptions. TVA is subject to general antifraud restric- 
tions prohibiting false or misleading statements of material facts. 

In 1992, the Commission participated with the Department of 
the Treasury and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System in a joint report on the Government securities market. As 
a Government agency, TVA was excluded from the recommenda- 
tions of that report regarding Government-Sponsored Enterprises, 
or GSE’s. The Commission has not considered the status of TVA 
since that time. 

Our area of interest as an agency involves disclosure to investors 
in TVA debt and not other aspects of Federal regulation. TVA, 
while a unique Federally-owned corporation, has many of the same 
disclosure issues as publicly-held utilities. We believe that inves- 
tors in TVA’s debt securities deserve the same type of information 
as that provided by other issuers of public debt. We further believe 
that the Commission’s detailed disclosure rules and filing require- 
ments and the staff review and comment process provide the best 
framework for disclosing information which investors deserve. 

Disclosure regarding TVA itself is, of course, more relevant be- 
cause TVA bonds are not legally backed by the full faith and credit 
of the United States. Disclosure should give the holders of TVA’s 
debt a materially complete and accurate picture of TVA’s financial 
and operational situation to permit them to evaluate their invest- 
ments and their investment decisions. 

In preparation for this testimony, the staff of the Commission 
has considered certain recent disclosures by TVA available on its 
website. This overview does not represent a full review of those 
documents, has not involved a typical comment process with TVA, 
and does not attempt to cover all of the comments that the staff 
might issue in a full review. TVA’s disclosures in its most recent 
information statement and annual report, in its quarterly reports, 
offering circulars, and other materials generally include most of the 



9 


same disclosures as companies that file reports with the Commis- 
sion, and these disclosures appear on their face to be responsive to 
our important disclosure areas and concerns. There are certain 
areas where we believe TVA’s disclosures would be enhanced if the 
Commission’s line item disclosure requirements and staff review 
and comment applied. 

Based on the work done, we would identify possible enhance- 
ments in the areas of management’s discussion and analysis of 
financial condition and results of operations and in an area of 
market risk disclosure. Our rules would also require disclosure in 
the areas of executive compensation and, to the extent they exist, 
related party transactions. 

There are other areas relating to the descriptions of TVA’s busi- 
ness and property where we might, depending on the comment 
process, seek additional disclosure. 

Finally, under our rules, TVA would be required to file and make 
public specified exhibits, including certain material contracts made 
outside the ordinary course of business. 

There is a tension between TVA’s status as a Government agency 
and instrumentality and the resulting statutory exemptions, on the 
one hand, and the desire for disclosure that meets Commission 
standards on the other hand. Unlike the GSE’s addressed in the 
1992 report discussed previously, including the Federal National 
Mortgage Association, Fannie Mae, and the Federal Home Loan 
Mortgage Corporation, also known as Freddie Mac, TVA is not a 
profit-making corporation and does not have private shareholders 
or publicly-held equity securities. As such, a different statutory re- 
gime may be appropriate. 

There are a number of ways that a disclosure system could be 
applied to TVA. One way would be to change the statutory scheme 
to eliminate the Securities Act and/or the Exchange Act exemp- 
tions. Removing either of these exemptions would result in TVA be- 
coming subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. 
Its disclosures would then have to comply with the Commission’s 
detailed line item disclosure requirements and would be subject to 
the staff review and comment process. 

Because TVA is a Government agency and instrumentality and 
does not share many of the characteristics of the GSE’s previously 
mentioned, and because the Commission has not considered TVA 
since the 1992 report, where it was excluded from our GSE rec- 
ommendations, we are not advocating a change in TVA’s statu- 
torily-exempt status. 

In particular, we believe that the Commission’s objective — disclo- 
sure that meets Commission requirements and standards — can be 
achieved by alternative means. One possibility would be voluntary 
compliance or registration under the Exchange Act, a course of ac- 
tion recently taken by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and which 
achieves effectively the same results insofar as disclosure is con- 
cerned as eliminating the statutory exemptions. 

In conclusion, the individual and institutional investors who hold 
TVA’s debt securities depend for repayment on TVA’s net power 
proceeds and refundings and not a Government guarantee. We be- 
lieve that applying the Commission’s disclosure requirements and 
processes is the preferred method of ensuring that these investors 



10 


receive the disclosure they deserve. TVA’s status and exemptions 
from the registration and reporting requirements of the Federal 
securities laws are not necessarily an obstacle to that result. As 
previously indicated, there are a number of courses of action, in- 
cluding voluntary action by TVA, to achieve the desired standard 
of disclosure. 

Thank you very much for the opportunity to testify before you 
this morning and I would be pleased to answer any questions that 
Members of the Committee may have. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Well, thank you very much, Mr. Beller. I 
have just a couple of questions, then I will yield to my colleagues. 

Just so I am clear in my own mind, does the Tennessee Valley 
Authority Act define the geographical jurisdiction in which the 
TVA may function? 

Ms. Harris. Yes, sir. A 1959 amendment to the TVA Act defined 
what we generally call the fence. It is the area in which we can 
sell power and the area that is excluded from other suppliers pro- 
viding power in that region. 

Chairman Sarbanes. And how is that defined in the statute? By 
river basin or by actually setting out States and counties? 

Ms. Harris. It is a geographical description — the river basin does 
not necessarily mirror our service territory. So there are two dif- 
ferent areas — we have the area of the watershed of the Tennessee 
River, which is actually larger than our service territory. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Now, second, I understand that you are a 
not-for-profit organization. Is that correct? 

Ms. Harris. We are not in the classic definition of 501(c)(3). That 
is not what renders us a not-for-profit. As a Federal Government 
corporation, and as specified in our Act, our motivation is not to 
create a profit. What we do is basically generate revenues to fulfill 
our business functions, and obviously, includes paying down debt, 
operations and maintenance. And then, any left over, we simply re- 
invest back into the corporation. 

Chairman Sarbanes. So any, what in the private sector would 
be considered to be profits, you in effect put back into the oper- 
ations of the TVA. 

Ms. Harris. Yes. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Is that correct? 

Ms. Harris. It is a closed loop. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Now did I understand you to say that all 
of your meetings of the three-member Board of Directors are open 
to the public? 

Ms. Harris. Any decisionmaking meetings are open to the public. 
The public attends, the media attends. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Is that required by statute, or is that a vol- 
untary policy of the TVA? 

Ms. Harris. Yes, sir, by statute. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Your own statute or broader, Freedom of 
Information, Federal statutes? 

Ms. Harris. You are testing my memory here. But my memory 
tells me that the TVA Act requires us to conduct our meetings in 
public. I could be corrected on that, possibly. 

Chairman Sarbanes. I think some people behind you 

Ms. Harris. That is correct. I got it right. 



11 


Chairman Sarbanes. Mr. Beller, you, of course, hear from inves- 
tors. I do not know whether you hear from investors in TVA debt 
securities. But as a matter of information, have you received com- 
plaints at the SEC about the information available and the disclo- 
sures from investors, or would-be investors, in TVA bonds? 

Mr. Beller. I cannot say that we have a completely scientifically 
perfect way of knowing that. 

We did check in connection with preparing for this testimony 
with our investor education office, and, going back several years, 
we do not appear to have had any such complaints relating to TVA 
disclosure. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Okay. 

Senator Bunning. 

Senator Bunning. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

The main reason that they wouldn’t have any complaints, Mr. 
Chairman, is the fact that they are Aaa-rated bond and the Federal 
Government owns the company. 

So there wouldn’t be — unless you know the intricacies of how 
TVA works, like the fact that their money is reinvested in the com- 
pany, and the fact that they have X-amount of debt, generally 
speaking, the more sophisticated investor looks at the rating of the 
bond and who owns the company. There wouldn’t be any com- 
plaints at all because the Federal Government owns the bond. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Well, that may well be. But I get com- 
plaints all the time from people about things that the mayor or the 
governor are doing 

Senator Bunning. Me, too. 

[Laughter.] 

Chairman Sarbanes. And I do not need jurisdiction over that. 
So, I am just trying to inquire because, presumably, if there is a 
lot of discontent, the SEC might well have heard about it. 

If I were an investor and wanted to complain, the first place I 
would think of going to would be the SEC. I think the SEC likes 
to think that that is the case. 

Senator Bunning. That is certainly correct. I will get to my 
questions, then. 

Ms. Harris, do you know any other entity other than TVA that 
does not have a Federal regulator? 

Ms. Harris. Well, sir, I might disagree with your premise that 
we do not have any regulator at all. Certainly, the Nuclear Regu- 
latory Commission is very much a part of TVA’s 

Senator Bunning. Only in regards to your nuclear power plants. 

Ms. Harris. Yes, sir. That is a very important part of our busi- 
ness. The Environmental Protection 

Senator Bunning. I am talking about the conducting of your 
business, not just an entity within the TVA. Is there any overall 
Federal regulator for the Tennessee Valley Authority? Every Gov- 
ernment agency that I know has an Inspector General. 

Ms. Harris. Yes, sir. 

Senator Bunning. So the fact that TVA has an Inspector General 
is to be expected. 

Ms. Harris. Yes, sir. 

Senator Bunning. So can you answer my question? 



12 


Ms. Harris. To say that there is an entity that has the scope and 
the authority to regulate overall business activities of TVA, I would 
say, no. 

Senator Bunning. Thank you. 

You correctly stated that the Environmental and Public Works 
Subcommittee on Clean Air, Wetlands, and Climate Change has 
jurisdiction over TVA, in your written statement. 

Ms. Harris. Yes, sir. 

Senator Bunning. My guess is that they have as much expertise 
on financial disclosure as has this Committee on the power genera- 
tion. Why not disclose with the financial disclosure experts at SEC? 

Ms. Harris. As we heard today, I think that there are some real 
opportunities through collaboration with the SEC to develop 
some — Mr. Beller, I think you used the term, alternative means, for 
TVA to enhance the information that it does provide. 

I was also pleased to hear that you generally find that the infor- 
mation that we are providing now to investors is more or less like 
what everyone else provides to investors. 

I think that investor relations and the confidence that our inves- 
tors have, and possibly new investors in TVA, their level of con- 
fidence in TVA is very important to us. And we certainly, it is in 
our business interest to improve our disclosure. And I think that 
we have shown our commitment to do that, sir. 

Senator Bunning. Well, if you are going to change your coopera- 
tion governance to bring it more in line with Sarbanes-Oxley, why 
not take the next step and voluntarily register your bonds with the 
SEC, as other GSE’s are doing? 

Ms. Harris. And this probably exhibits my own misunderstand- 
ing here. But my understanding was that the agreement that 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had entered into really went to the 
question of their equities, not their debt securities. And I would ap- 
preciate it if anybody could expound on that because if it could be 
clarified, I would appreciate it. But my understanding was that 
they had only agreed to register their equity securities. 

Chairman Sarbanes. I think that is correct. 

Senator Bunning. That is accurate, but insignificant, because 
everything is reflected in the disclosures that they are now volun- 
tarily disclosing as far as their equity is concerned. 

Ms. Harris. I think that the same is very true for us, but I am 
looking forward to working with the SEC to get their response to 
how we can improve and enhance our disclosures to the point that 
we would be able to elevate the confidence of investors. 

It is my understanding that you already have said that the SEC 
said that you should voluntarily register. That is one of the conclu- 
sions, I think that that is one of the alternatives. 

Senator Bunning. That he came to. 

Ms. Harris. Right. I think it was, and my understanding, I cer- 
tainly do not want to misstate your testimony, but I thought that 
the door was open for some discussions of alternative means for 
TVA to increase and enhance the kinds of disclosures that it now 
provides to the public and to our investors. 

Senator Bunning. Well, if you want me to read it word for word, 
I refer you to the conclusion in the SEC’s testimony about vol- 
untary disclosure of TVA’s securities to the SEC. And it is pretty 



13 


clear that that is one of their highly recommended alternatives to 
changing all of the legalese that we have in the laws now. Given 
the SEC’s testimony, is TVA willing to go and take a look? Do you 
have any flexibility as far as voluntarily registering with the SEC? 

Ms. Harris. What I am looking forward to is pursuing the var- 
ious alternatives that were raised today. And I think that, as we 
sit down, there are certain aspects of our governance structure — 
I certainly find the role of oversight, the watchdog role that our In- 
spector General plays for TVA, to be a very powerful protective 
mechanism for us. 

So there are some other types of structural differences that I 
think that I would look forward to working with the SEC to find 
out how we can better disclose and build the confidence, not only 
of this Committee, but also of investors. 

Senator Bunning. Let me just finish up by asking you two more 
questions. 

Ms. Harris. Sure. 

Senator Bunning. Why is it more costly inside the fence for elec- 
tricity than it is outside the fence? 

Ms. Harris. It depends on where you are near the fence, sir. 

Senator Bunning. I understand that. But why is it if your mis- 
sion is to provide the lowest cost electricity possible, why are in- 
vestor-owned and rural electric co-ops producing electric cost less 
outside the fence than inside? 

Ms. Harris. As you well know, I was raised in the region of Ken- 
tucky that TVA serves. So, I am very familiar with the situation 
that you are talking about. 

One of the things is that TVA has a different fuel mix than most 
of the utilities. If we are specifically speaking to Kentucky utilities 
and how they generate their electricity, they are very fortunate. 
They have mine-mouth coal plans. That is a very efficient way to 
generate electricity. We have one located in Paradise, Kentucky. 
That is a very efficient, low-cost plant. 

We think that TVA has value because we do have a fuel mix. We 
have coal. We have solar. We have geothermal. We have nuclear. 
We have gas combustion turbines. So, we believe that mix, it does 
mean that, in part, our costs are higher because of past invest- 
ments TVA has made. But we believe, and one of our six objectives 
is to continue to reduce the delivered cost of power. And we are 
committed to being competitive with those other utilities in the 
Commonwealth of Kentucky. 

Senator Bunning. Well, Ms. Harris, I am not going to get into 
a dispute with you on TVA’s ability to sell outside the fence be- 
cause I happen to agree that they should have the ability. But I 
also agree that it should be a two-way street. 

Ms. Harris. I agree, sir. 

Senator Bunning. That the people should be able to come within 
the fence and sell and be competitive with TVA inside the fence. 

Ms. Harris. We are certainly in agreement on that, sir. 

Senator Bunning. Last, but not least, you mentioned the fact 
that you are complying now with the separation of function. 

Ms. Harris. Yes, sir. 

Senator Bunning. Even though you are not covered by the law. 
In other words, you are exempt from Sarbanes-Oxley. 



14 


Ms. Harris. Yes. 

Senator Bunning. Do you think if you did not comply with the 
law, that somebody would be coming down and descending on you 
rather rapidly if you weren’t doing it voluntarily? 

In other words, you have decided to separate the two functions, 
the auditing function and the advising function, as the law states. 

Ms. Harris. Let me just say, in 1995, our Inspector General 
identified as an issue the fact that our independent auditor was 
also doing consulting work with TVA. 

So, I must say, this is a perfect example how our Inspector Gen- 
eral — at that time, in 1995, when that was identified as a potential 
issue, long before it was an issue in the minds of anybody else 
across the United States, that was identified and the decision was 
made because that was the common practice throughout the pri- 
vate sector. 

Senator Bunning. The private sector. 

Ms. Harris. Right. 

Senator Bunning. Not the public. 

Ms. Harris. Absolutely. Private sector, that we would continue 
to do that. 

This has been an issue that TVA has been aware of for quite a 
while. And so, we believe it is the right thing to do. I do not think 
that we made this decision because we thought somebody was 
going to come down and get us. I think we did it because we think 
it is the right thing to do. 

Senator Bunning. One question for Mr. Beller. Do you believe 
that voluntary registration of the SEC, such as Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac, would be undue, costly, or burdensome to TVA? 

Mr. Beller. I think, Senator Bunning, that the one-word answer 
to that question is, no, I expect it probably would not, based on a 
couple of assumptions that we are not 100 percent sure of. 

The principal cost of compliance with our registration and report- 
ing requirements is generally the expense of an external audit in 
accordance with GAAP and generally accepted auditing standards. 

TVA already incurs that cost, I expect in full. I do not believe 
that there would be much, if anything, additional that they would 
have to do there. There would probably be some additional advisory 
expenses. But I do not think, given the amount of disclosure they 
currently provide, there would be, I expect, some incremental costs. 
I would be surprised if it were significant in comparison to what 
they incur now in terms of disclosure and reporting. 

Senator Bunning. Thank you. 

I have some additional questions, but go ahead, Mike. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Senator Enzi. 

Senator Enzi. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I did not know that 
this was going to be such an opportunity for Wyoming today. 

[Laughter.] 

The county that I come from in Wyoming is the largest producer 
of coal in the United States. We produce a third of the Nation’s coal 
there. One of the things our State has been looking at from an eco- 
nomic development standpoint is having some power plants at the 
mine mouth. 

Ms. Harris. Yes. 



15 


Senator Enzi. We would invite you to take a look at having one 
of your power plants in Wyoming and you wouldn’t have to ship all 
that coal clear out there. 

Ms. Harris. I will let you and Senator Bunning resolve that. 

[Laughter.] 

Senator Bunning. We will work on that together. 

[Laughter.] 

Senator Enzi. I am hoping that you just use some good account- 
ing, look at the numbers, and of course, I know what the result will 
be then. 

[Laughter.] 

Chairman Sarbanes. Well, mine mouthing, you produce the elec- 
tricity right at the mine mouth, don’t you, and then transit it? 

Ms. Harris. Yes. 

Chairman Sarbanes. That would be pretty costly. How much of 
it would be left if you tried to transmit it from Wyoming? 

[Laughter.] 

Senator Enzi. Plenty. What we do is we put it in at the grid and 
that moves some electricity over a little ways. This electrical stuff 
is fascinating. 

[Laughter.] 

When I was mayor, our municipality owned their own electrical 
generating and power system. 

But getting back to the main issue here, Congress is supposed 
to provide the oversight over TVA, as well as all of the Government 
agencies. In looking at it, I have to tell you, we are not very good 
at oversight over accounting or oversight over disclosure. 

I have a lot of confidence that TVA is doing better than the Gov- 
ernment agencies because we have had the opportunity to audit 
some Government agencies. And in the audits that I saw, I think 
that the Forest Service did the best job. They were $200 million out 
of balance. 

So, I am not sure that the TVA wants to associate themselves 
with the oversight and the accounting that we provide. It may well 
want to take a look at kind of separating it as Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac did by going under some SEC jurisdiction. And of 
course, the easy way to do that is the voluntary method because, 
as Mr. Beller explained, we would have to do quite a bit of legis- 
lating in order to be able to change the system. I am not sure that 
changing the system is at all necessary. 

I did hear your comments about the Inspector General. But I 
think the Inspector General, from the perspective of people who are 
now paying a bit more attention in the financial markets, would be 
more of a relationship to a chief legal counsel within a corporation, 
that the ties are a little bit closer there. Whereas, the SEC is 
looked at as more of absolutely outside oversight with different ca- 
pabilities than there might be by an Inspector General. And in a 
moment I will ask you for your reflection on that. But a couple 
more specific questions before I get to that. Does the TVA follow 
already all the rules on GAAP consistent with other utilities? 

Ms. Harris. Yes, sir. 

Senator Enzi. I thought that was the case. Now does the TVA 
have any additional off-balance sheet or off-budget arrangements of 
which we might not be aware? 



16 


Ms. Harris. No, sir. The TVA Act limits the business activities 
that we can engage in. We cannot have subcorporations that are 
separate. A lot of the things that have raised suspicions over the 
last few months, TVA, by its own statute, is prohibited from engag- 
ing in those activities. 

Senator Enzi. And so, you do not have off-balance sheet trans- 
actions or off-budget arrangements. 

Ms. Harris. No. 

Senator Enzi. In your testimony, you spoke extensively about the 
disclosure requirements you currently perform. And of course, in 
your testimony, which will be part of the record, your complete tes- 
timony, it is even more extensive that you go into that. 

Ms. Harris. Right. 

Senator Enzi. So that gets back to this original question — why 
wouldn’t you just adopt the SEC registration requirements, such as 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, on a voluntary basis? 

Ms. Harris. What I want to do, and I think that we are going 
to be able to benefit from this, is to work with the SEC to see ex- 
actly how we can improve and in whatever form, whichever one of 
the alternatives that was listed, which one that we feel most com- 
fortable with and that we feel like that will bring about, instill the 
most investor confidence. That is what I would like to do as a re- 
sult of this hearing and I appreciate the fact that this has brought 
TVA and the SEC together. 

I was not around in 1992 when the last report was done, so, I 
think that this is an opportunity for us to work together to get to 
whatever is best, given the circumstances of TVA. And I think as 
we talk, we are going to be able to identify what scenario is best 
to get to what you are talking about, that full disclosure. 

Senator Enzi. What is the downside to doing this voluntary reg- 
istration? 

Ms. Harris. I do not think that we fully understand what that 
all entails. It is hard for me to define right now what the downside 
is because I do not know exactly what that would fully entail. And 
until we go through that exercise, I do not think I can say, this is 
why we would not want to do it because I do not know the full ex- 
tent of that. 

Senator Enzi. Okay. And I would rather talk to you about coal 
sales, anyway. 

[Laughter.] 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Sarbanes. I wanted to ask a couple of questions here. 

First of all, I want to commend the TVA for moving to put in 
place various provisions in the recently enacted corporate account- 
ability and accounting responsibility legislation. There was an ef- 
fort there, of course, to define some best standards, or at least best 
minimum standards, so to speak. And I think your report on the 
steps that TVA is taking are important in that regard. 

Ms. Harris. Thank you. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Second, this is a very informative hearing, 
at least for me. I never realized until I came here this morning and 
we got into this, that there was this problem about electricity rates 
inside the fence and outside the fence, which seems, I gather, to 



17 


be a pressing issue, particularly in the Commonwealth of Ken- 
tucky. 

Ms. Harris. That is right. 

Chairman Sarbanes. So, I am gaining some additional knowl- 
edge, which I heretofore had not had. 

Now, Mr. Beller, I want to be sure I understand your position. 

As I understand it, if the TVA were to move in various ways to 
additional disclosures, and you mentioned some areas where you 
thought attention could be paid — market risk disclosure, executive 
compensation, material contracts, and so forth — that would meet 
the disclosure question. The disclosure question is separate from 
the registration question. It is not necessarily encompassed within 
it. Isn’t that correct? 

You could come in here today and say, well, the TVA is disclosing 
everything we can think of that they ought to disclose. Now that 
is not your position. You think that there are some additional 
things that they could do. But that could be done without reaching 
to the issue of whether they should be required to register with the 
SEC. Isn’t that correct? 

Mr. Beller. Senator Sarbanes, that is a very interesting ques- 
tion. There are two separate issues. Disclosure and registration do 
not necessarily go hand in hand. 

We could not, on the face of TVA’s documents, because we would 
not have had the benefit of a review and comment process, reach 
definitive conclusions about their disclosure. But we could go 
through a review, or the equivalent of a review and comment proc- 
ess with them on a voluntary basis. 

Chairman Sarbanes. I am not sure we should be so quick this 
morning to simply cross over the threshold of the unique institu- 
tion which the Tennessee Valley Authority is, and the basis on 
which these decisions have been made in the past. In other words, 
in 1992, they did not bring TVA under when they were doing this 
review. 

How many companies do you have that have to register with the 
SEC where the directors of the company are appointed by the 
President of the United States and are then confirmed by the U.S. 
Senate? 

Mr. Beller. I know that when we moved to voluntary registra- 
tion of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, a portion of their boards 
are appointed by the President. But entire boards, I am not aware 
of any. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Of course, they are profit-making organiza- 
tions, aren’t they, and they issue equities? 

In fact, I thought we established here that the agreement they 
have entered into with the SEC involves their equity and not their 
debt. Is that correct? 

Mr. Beller. It is true that what they are registering is their 
equity securities. The consequence of registration, as I believe 
Senator Bunning pointed out, is basically full disclosure that is 
for the benefit of all, the holders of both their equity and their 
debt and other fixed-income securities. Whether they were to regis- 
ter equity or whether the TVA were to register debt, would result 
in the same disclosure requirements with very few exceptions 
applying. 



18 


Chairman Sarbanes. You say you are going to get full disclosure 
from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac of their debt? Is that right? 

Mr. Beller. That is correct. 

Chairman Sarbanes. But not by it being registered with the 
SEC. Is that correct? 

Mr. Beller. No. By virtue of their registering any securities with 
us, they have to disclose information that is material to all of their 
security-holders. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Of course, not all of their directors are ap- 
pointed by the President. In fact, I think only a minority. 

Mr. Beller. I think it is a third. 

Ms. Harris. A third, yes. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Yes. 

Mr. Beller. To my knowledge 

Chairman Sarbanes. This is a rather unique institution isn’t it, 
the Tennessee Valley Authority? 

Mr. Beller. It is, indeed. I hope we are cognizant of that. In our 
testimony, we would not propose the same recommendation that 
was proposed in 1992 with regards to Fannie and Freddie, which 
was registration. I think we are looking for an alternative solution. 
Whether that solution is voluntary disclosure or voluntary registra- 
tion, is something that I believe we would need more of an inter- 
action to know. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Well, if the purpose of the registration, 
whether compulsory or voluntary, would be to get disclosure, and 
if you get the disclosure without either the compulsory registration 
or the voluntary registration, then the objective has been accom- 
plished, has it not? 

Mr. Beller. Yes, it has, sir. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Senator Bunning. 

Senator Bunning. Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Ms. Harris, I believe you, in answering Senator Enzi’s question, 
misstated some positions as far as TVA is concerned, and I want 
to bring up a couple of them. 

Ms. Harris. Sure. Go right ahead. 

Senator Bunning. TVA and OMB, in a highly-publicized dis- 
agreement about whether or not TVA’s lease-back — lease/lease- 
back arrangements 

Ms. Harris. Right. 

Senator Bunning. — Should be counted toward TVA’s debt cap. 
It is my understanding that TVA has continued to lobby OMB to 
reverse the decision that it made. Is this an attempt by TVA to 
continue to do these types of lease transactions, and have these 
and future lease transactions off budget, rather than to treat these 
lease transactions properly as part of its debt or part of TVA’s Con- 
gressionally-mandated debt cap? 

Ms. Harris. With regard to the lease/lease-backs which we are 
using for combustion turbine units, we address those lease/lease- 
backs on our financial statement according to GAAP. How we treat 
those, we are driven, how we put them on our financial statement, 
by generally accepted accounting practices. 

There is a line that says what our debt is and then below that, 
it says, other financial obligations. And then, based on GAAP, we 
list those on our financial statements as other financial obligations. 



19 


First of all, I am not sure if I agree with the characterization 
that we were in some hotly contested battle with OMB. 

Senator Bunning. It seems that you are because you continue to 
lobby OMB to change their decision that they made. 

Ms. Harris. I haven’t been aware of that. It doesn’t fee 

Senator Bunning. That is why we needed our gentleman from 
OMB here today that did not show up. 

Ms. Harris. The requirement that OMB has for categorizing for 
the purposes of the Federal budget, how it characterizes how we 
do our financings, what our debt is, is a totally different function 
than how we report our financial statements. 

For us to be inconsistent with GAAP in this particular situation 
I think would be the basis for us to be criticized to be out of sync 
with the GAAP only on that particular item. 

Basically, where I think TVA and OMB ended up is OMB feels 
like it needs to list that on the Federal budget, and the way it 
does — and my understanding is that it is not listed as part of our 
debt. There is a separate line that says something like, other finan- 
cial obligations. So, they even separate it from the overall debt. 
Now, the cumulative total adds to the Federal debt ceiling. And 
TVA certainly does not have a quarrel with how OMB character- 
izes for its own purposes the cumulative total toward the Federal 
debt ceiling. That is not part of our business. That is OMB’s re- 
sponsibility. 

Senator Bunning. Well, there is a disagreement between you 
and OMB because if there weren’t, you would have accepted the 
fact that they are using those transactions and that that debt is 
being counted toward the Congressionally-mandated debt cap that 
you have. 

Ms. Harris. I certainly do not feel that we have a disagreement 
with them. 

Senator Bunning. Okay. 

Is any maintenance or scheduled repairs or replacements of the 
facilities being or will be deferred as a result of the obligation it 
has taken to restart Brown’s Ferry? 

Ms. Harris. Are you asking if other things are being delayed to 
finance 

Senator Bunning. Is any maintenance or scheduled repairs or re- 
placements of the facilities being or will be deferred as a result of 
your trying to restart Brown’s Ferry? 

Ms. Harris. And I assume you are talking about our overall fleet 
of generation. 

Senator Bunning. Absolutely. 

Ms. Harris. Okay. All of our units. As a matter of fact, we are 
spending just about the same for maintenance and repairs 

Senator Bunning. You are not deferring anything because you 
are trying to restart Brown’s Ferry? 

Ms. Harris. Let me say, in the upcoming budget, 2003 budget, 
the largest expenditure that we have is $528 million that we are 
spending on pollution control equipment. If anything, that so over- 
shadows what we are spending on Brown’s Ferry 1 restart, that we 
are on a track so that we can burn more good Kentucky coal in 
compliance with environmental standards. What we are doing is 
balancing our business. Next year’s expenditure, the bulk of it is 



20 


going to be for environmental pollution control equipment. Brown’s 
Ferry 1 does not dominate the budget next year. 

Senator Bunning. I am not asking if it dominates it. 

Ms. Harris. Okay. 

Senator Bunning. I am just asking you the simple question of 
whether you are deferring or changing your maintenance schedules 
on other plants because of the restart of Brown’s Ferry? 

Ms. Harris. I think that what we are doing is we are maintain- 
ing our plants as they need to be maintained. We are not changing 
the practices of our maintenance and 

Senator Bunning. So, you say that you are spending the extra 
money to restart Brown’s Ferry. 

Ms. Harris. Yes. 

Senator Bunning. As part of your overall expenditure. Nothing 
else is going to be changed. That is what you are saying. 

Ms. Harris. Right. But I guess I am a little confused by isolating 
out an expenditure for Brown’s Ferry 1 when 

Senator Bunning. I want to know if anything else is suffering 
because of the restart. 

Ms. Harris. Okay. We are not failing to invest in the infrastruc- 
ture of TVA for any expenditures this year, whether it is Brown’s 
Ferry 1 or pollution control equipment. 

Senator Bunning. Okay. If we could pass an energy bill, there 
would be $2 billion extra for clean coal burning technology. So 
maybe you should get some of your lobbyists up here to help us 
pass the energy bill that we have before the Congress of the United 
States right now. 

Ms. Harris. Sir, by law, we are prohibited from lobbying. 

Senator Bunning. I am kidding. 

[Laughter.] 

You said in 1995, your IG decided to split your auditing and your 
consulting. 

Ms. Harris. That recommendation was made. 

Senator Bunning. Then why did it take 7 years for you to do it? 

Ms. Harris. Well, I wasn’t here. But if I could defer to Don, Don 
was here. 

But, basically, what happened is, when the recommendation, my 
understanding is, came out, everyone said, well, this is not how 
they do it in the private sector. Do you want to comment on that? 

Senator Bunning. You can step right up. Don’t be bashful. 

Mr. Hickman. Senator Bunning, I am the Acting Inspector Gen- 
eral. In 1995, my office did report that the TVA should split its 
nonaudit services from its financial audit services, in view of the 
fact that the same firm was performing those same duties. 

We reported that to TVA. And management’s response to us at 
that time was that this practice is in keeping with the normal busi- 
ness practices in the private sector, and at that time, they did not 
see it as a problem. 

We contended that there was the possibility of a perception that 
there was an inappropriate amount of independence by the audit 
firm performing those same duties. 

We did report that to the Congress as a part of our semiannual 
report. 

Senator Bunning. It just took us 7 years to get to it. 



21 


Thank you. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Senator Enzi. 

Senator Enzi. I have no further questions. 

Chairman Sarbanes. We did receive a letter this morning from — 
in fact, just a little while ago — from the OMB, who did not come 
in to testify, which just very briefly touches on some of these 
issues. Actually, they say something in that letter, though, that 
concerns me. I would call this to the attention of my colleagues. 

“TVA is similar to the GSE’s in that both TVA and the GSE’s 
issue debt securities, although TVA’s are backed by the Federal 
Government and those of the GSE’s are not.” 

I did not think that was the case. The TVA Act, I thought, said 
that the Federal Government does not guarantee the bonds. Don’t 
you put a no-guarantee language in your bonds, the TVA? Isn’t 
that correct? I ask our panel. 

Ms. Harris. First of all, that would differ from everything in my 
understanding because since 1959, the decision was made by the 
Federal Government no longer to back TVA bonds and we became 
self-financing in 1959. 

Mr. Beller. That is our understanding from a review of the leg- 
islation. 

Chairman Sarbanes. I am quoting the letter that has the Direc- 
tor of OMB’s signature on it, Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr.: “TVA is simi- 
lar to the GSE’s in that both TVA and the GSE’s issue debt securi- 
ties, although TVA’s are backed by the Federal Government and 
those of the GSE’s are not.” 

Mr. Beller. 

Mr. Beller. I do not want to speak for the TVA with respect to 
what its Government backing is. 

I can tell you that the offering circulars that we reviewed in con- 
nection with preparing for this testimony are very explicit and it 
is very prominent that there is no full faith and credit backing. 

Chairman Sarbanes. I know that the bond-rating agencies are 
influenced by the fact that they think that there may be some im- 
plicit guarantee since TVA is a wholly-owned Government corpora- 
tion and therefore, the Government would support them if their 
solvency were seriously impaired. Of course, the same argument is 
made to some extent about the GSE’s. But there has been a big 
effort to get away from the idea that there is a Government guar- 
antee, behind these bonds. It is hard enough to sell the idea be- 
cause everyone assumes there is an implicit guarantee. 

Ms. Harris. Right. 

Chairman Sarbanes. But at least there is an effort to get away 
from that. 

For the OMB then to come in here with this letter and lend con- 
siderable credence to this notion that there is a guarantee, it seems 
to me is completely counter to what, previously, OMB and others 
have been trying to do. But so much for the OMB letter, if I may 
say so. 

[Laughter.] 

I do not have any further questions. 



22 


Senator BUNNING. I believe if you have a prospectus of your 
bonds, that there will be a significant bold print that it is not guar- 
anteed by the Federal Government. 

Ms. Harris. Absolutely. 

Chairman Sarbanes. I see it right here on the face of it. 

Senator Bunning. That is correct. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Well, maybe we should send this down to 
OMB in response to their letter. 

Senator Bunning. We will do that. 

Chairman Sarbanes. We thank the witnesses very much for 
coming. 

Senator Bunning. Thank you very much. 

Ms. Harris. Thank you very much. 

Chairman Sarbanes. And now we will go to our next panel, if 
they will come forward. 

[Pause.] 

Our second panel this morning consists of Craven Crowell, who 
is Chairman of GCW Consulting. Mr. Crowell served as Chairman 
of the Tennessee Valley Authority, subsequent of course to his 
nomination by the President and confirmation by the Senate, from 
1993 to 2001. He is the former Chairman of the Electric Power Re- 
search Institute, has served on the Board of the Nuclear Energy In- 
stitute, and prior to becoming Chairman of the TVA, worked closely 
with our former colleague, Senator Jim Sasser of Tennessee. 

Mr. Crowell. Right. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Dr. Allan Pulsipher — have I pronounced it 
correctly, Doctor? 

Mr. Pulsipher. You have. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Executive Director and Professor of Energy 
Policy in the Center for Energy Studies at Louisiana State Univer- 
sity. Dr. Pulsipher actually was a Chief Economist at the TVA in 
the 1980’s. He has also worked with the President’s Council of Eco- 
nomic Advisers, and has also been at the Southern Illinois Univer- 
sity and Texas A&M. 

And then the concluding panelist is Daniel Gates, the Managing 
Director of Moody’s Investors Service. He leads there the analyst 
team that follows issues in the power, energy, and infrastructure 
sectors, and has been the global coordinator for syndicated loan 
ratings for Moody’s. 

We are very pleased to have all three of you here with us this 
morning. Your full statements will be included in the record. We 
would obviously appreciate it if you could summarize it. 

Mr. Crowell, we will begin with you and then we will just move 
right across the panel. 

STATEMENT OF CRAVEN CROWELL 
CHAIRMAN, GCW CONSULTING 
FORMER CHAIRMAN, TENNESSEE V AL LEY AUTHORITY 

Mr. Crowell. Thank you very much, Chairman Sarbanes. And 
Senator Bunning, it is good to see you again, and for the Com- 
mittee to invite me here. 

I was going to say good morning, but I think it is already after- 
noon. So, I will say, good afternoon to all of you. My name is Cra- 
ven Crowell and I served for 8 years 



23 


Chairman Sarbanes. That only underscores the point that we 
are going to include your full statements in the record. 

[Laughter.] 

Mr. Crowell. Thank you. I served 8 years as Chairman of the 
Tennessee Valley Authority, and I had the distinct pleasure of 
serving at TVA for a total of 17 years, first as a member of the 
Senior Management Team and then, as I have said, as Chairman 
of the Board of Directors. I retired last year after 25 years of Fed- 
eral service, and as you mentioned, Mr. Chairman, I served part 
of that with Senator Jim Sasser in the U.S. Senate. I now serve 
as Chairman of GCW Consulting, which is an energy and aviation 
consulting firm located in Arlington, Virginia. 

TVA has played a vital role in creating prosperity for people of 
the Tennessee Valley since its creation in 1933. It brought oppor- 
tunity and hope to thousands of people who lived mostly in rural 
areas and who had few prospects for enriching their lives and the 
lives of their children. 

I can remember as a small child when TVA electricity first came 
to the farmhouse where my grandparents lived and the excitement 
electric lighting created in the rural community of Fairview, Ten- 
nessee, where they lived. There is no doubt that TVA contributed 
greatly to the quality of life in the Tennessee Valley and it is my 
fervent hope it will continue to play a vital role in creating oppor- 
tunity for many generations to come. I can say with certainty, of 
course, that the TVA has played an important role in my life and 
career and I shall always be grateful for having had the oppor- 
tunity to serve the people of the Tennessee Valley. 

Mr. Chairman, the Committee has asked me to address two 
questions: whether the TVA should be required by Federal law to 
disclose financial and operational information to debt-holders and 
prospective investors, and, if so, whether the TVA should be made 
subject to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 and the 
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. I want to express my appre- 
ciation to the Committee for its interests in my views on this im- 
portant matter. I would, however, like to make a few preliminary 
comments about TVA’s debt that I believe are relevant to our dis- 
cussion this morning. 

In 1959, Congress gave TVA the authority to issue bonds to raise 
capital for expansion and other related activities and subsequently 
set a debt limit of $30 billion. For the next 38 years, TVA contin- 
ued to increase its debt until it reached $27.7 billion. In 1997, TVA 
realized that not only was the size of the debt coming dangerously 
close to its borrowing limit, but also the interest expense as a per- 
cent of revenue at 34 percent was having a negative impact on 
TVA’s competitiveness. 

As a result of concerns about the size of the debt, TVA developed 
a 10-year plan in 1997 to reduce the debt and create a stronger fi- 
nancial position in preparation for deregulation of the electric 
power industry. Since 1997, TVA has reduced its indebtedness by 
almost $2.5 billion and has reduced the interest expense as a per- 
cent of revenue to 21 percent — producing a savings of nearly $500 
million per year in interest expense. 

I might say, Mr. Chairman, that I am pleased that the current 
TVA Board of Directors has continued to focus on reducing the 



24 


debt. In all likelihood, TVA’s debt is greater than the market value 
of its total assets in today’s market, although the agency’s book 
value remains higher than its indebtedness. It is my hope that the 
TVA board will continue to reduce the debt in the years ahead. 

Now, if I may, let me speak to the issue you invited me here to 
address. 

During my tenure as Chairman, TVA undertook a significant ex- 
pansion of its finance program in order to lower interest costs. The 
collective result of those efforts over the last few years has resulted 
in TVA being recognized for its innovation and responsiveness to 
investors. 

TVA entered the global bond market for the first time in 1995 
and the same year issued its first bonds targeted to retail, or indi- 
vidual, investors. The retail bonds were enormously successful and 
resulted in a large increase in the number of TVA investors. With 
this came the recognition that TVA would need to increase the op- 
portunities to further disclose and communicate information about 
the agency that was of significance and importance to the invest- 
ment community. 

So in 1996, TVA created a staff of investor relations professionals 
to ensure that investors in TVA bonds had information they needed 
to make informed investment decisions. The broad responsibilities 
of this group were to ensure the adequacy and accuracy of disclo- 
sures in TVA’s annual report, quarterly reports, information state- 
ments, and periodic offering circulars. 

Additionally, the investor relations department routinely handled 
hundreds of inquiries from investors. The TVA Board also became 
more active with the investment community and began hosting 
meetings in New York with major investors and began meeting 
with investors in other countries. 

In every meeting I attended, the TVA was viewed as a stable, 
well-run Government corporation that offered a sound investment 
opportunity. In no instance did any investor ever express to me 
the slightest concern about the business standards of the TVA, 
the soundness of the business or the adequacy or timeliness of our 
disclosures. 

I might add that stable rates are a very important signal to in- 
vestors of TVA’s business stability. But there are other significant 
signals as well. Investors have taken note of the outstanding oper- 
ating performance of TVA’s power system. Capacity and efficiency 
are continuing to increase and, during my tenure, TVA’s nuclear 
program was recognized by the industry for its high level of per- 
formance. 

In this discussion, we also should recognize that the TVA’s oper- 
ations and bond indebtedness are already subject to significant 
oversight to guarantee proper and complete disclosure. Two exam- 
ples which have already been mentioned this morning include an 
independent auditor in the form of an Inspector General who will 
be appointed by the President with Senate confirmation, and the 
General Accounting Office that has full and complete access to all 
documents and information in TVA’s possession. 

TVA routinely provides information about its finances and oper- 
ations in many other ways. TVA board meetings are conducted in 
public with opportunities for the public and news media to ask 



25 


questions on any subject; press releases are issued anytime an 
event occurs of interest to the citizens of the Tennessee Valley or 
members of the investment community; public meetings on a vari- 
ety of subjects are conducted throughout the TVA area; and, per- 
haps of most significance, TVA’s operations and activities come 
under the jurisdiction of Oversight Committees in both the Senate 
and the House. 

It is my opinion, Mr. Chairman, that the TVA already exceeds 
the reporting requirements that would be expected of any other 
corporation in similar circumstances. But let us not forget a key 
element in this discussion. TVA is a Government corporation — 100 
percent owned by the U.S. Government. It exists for the sole pur- 
pose of serving the citizens of the Tennessee Valley. Its mandate 
is to provide services at the lowest possible cost and it does not 
seek to enrich shareholders or corporate executives, since it has 
only one shareholder — the U.S. Government. In other words, TVA 
is a unique and vastly different organization than you will find 
anywhere else in the United States. 

Now, we are all aware that bonds act differently in the market- 
place than equity ownership through stocks. Stock prices can 
change depending on the vagaries of the marketplace and, there- 
fore, are subject to manipulation as all of us with 401(k)’s have 
painfully experienced in the past few months. Bonds, on the other 
hand, are priced at the time of issue, and, while liquidity and inter- 
est rates can contribute to some changes in value, they are a stable 
and predictable investment. TVA does not issue stock. 

In response to the Committee’s question about whether the TVA 
should be made subject to the requirements of the Securities Acts, 
I would hope the Committee would review carefully the disclosures 
TVA already makes before acting on legislation that, in my view, 
would simply add another layer of bureaucracy to TVA’s operations 
and result in additional cost and a decrease in flexibility. In man- 
aging its debt, TVA needs the ability to move quickly and take full 
advantage of refinancing opportunities without being encumbered 
by another layer of process. 

I wish to thank you, Mr. Chairman, and the other Members of 
the Committee for permitting me to appear here today and I would 
be happy to answer questions. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Thank you very much, sir. 

We will hear from the other two panelists before we go to the 
questions. Dr. Pulsipher, we would be happy to hear from you. 

STATEMENT OF ALLAN G. PULSIPHER 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, CENTER FOR ENERGY STUDIES 
MARATHON OIL COMPANY PROFESSOR OF ENERGY POLICY 
LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY 

Mr. Pulsipher. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the invitation to 
testify before the Committee. I have a short statement with four 
main points that I will just summarize. 

First, TVA is a large electric power system. It is not a regional 
development agency that executes Government functions. Oper- 
ationally, technologically, functionally, and financially it is the 
same thing as the other large power systems that operate in the 



26 


Southeastern United States. And it has worked hard to transform 
itself into that type of an organization over the last two decades. 

The exemption of TVA’s securities from provisions of the Securi- 
ties Act of 1933 and the Exchange Act of 1934, to the extent that 
it is derived from the exclusion of the registration requirements 
given to securities of municipal, State, and Federal Governments, 
has no cogent rationale with respect to TVA today. 

Second, as other people have said, the accounting and investor 
protection issues that this Committee has spent so much time on 
this past year are as relevant to TVA as they are to its competitors. 

To illustrate, TVA’s unfinished nuclear plants are likely to go on 
to the accounting hall of fame’s top 10 list of most write-off-resist - 
ant, unproductive assets, probably ranking just below the Empire 
State Building’s mooring tower for dirigibles. 

TVA’s current outside auditor has been retained by the agency 
for at least over two decades, and I think it probably goes back fur- 
ther than that, and that firm has been the principal consultant to 
the agency on its accounting, informational technology and finan- 
cial systems, as well as many other managerial issues. I am glad 
to hear that the TVA is going to change that arrangement and I 
think it is time that it did come to an end. 

I share Senator Bunning’s skepticism that anything would have 
been done had it not been for the concern that the Committee has 
expressed and acted on. 

The lease/lease-back arrangements for the peaking turbines have 
been discussed, I think that most people would look at them as an 
effort to keep the financing for the turbine from showing up on 
TVA’s books as debt and being subject to the Congressional limit. 
And there are other issues of this sort that you can easily find. 

Third, these accounting and investor protection issues are more 
serious for TVA than for its competitors or other corporations be- 
cause the agency lacks these even minimal mechanisms for cor- 
porate oversight, disclosure and control, whose adequacy is under 
consideration by the Committee. As we have heard, TVA is run by 
a unique but widely un-imitated, full-time, three-person board ap- 
pointed by the President for 9 year terms. 

Many of those who have been appointed during the past have 
had no experience or specialized knowledge of the electricity busi- 
ness before their appointment. A few board members have been 
very effective leaders and strategists, but these have been the 
exceptions. 

It is useful to keep in mind that TVA “backed into” the electric 
power business. The three-person board arrangement was specified 
at its inception, well before the time that TVA transformed itself 
into a large regional power system. 

The rationale for the initial arrangement was that TVA needed 
to be protected from hostile political and economic interests in the 
region that would be threatened by this, frankly, experimental ini- 
tiative of the Federal Government. There were no arrangements in 
the initial organization at TVA and none have been inserted since 
that time to allow for regional participation or regional review or 
oversight of TVA’s activities. 

My fourth and final point is that every independent study of TVA 
has concluded that this three-member board is an antiquated, con- 



27 


tradictory, paternalistic arrangement that should be replaced by an 
independent, expanded, regionally-based, part-time board. Regard- 
less of politics, every study has made this recommendation and, 
just as consistently, and also regardless of politics, every TVA 
board has dismissed the recommendation out of hand. 

The relevance of this unique arrangement to the problems of ac- 
counting accuracy and auditing that this Committee is concerned 
with can be made clear by considering some of the solutions to the 
problems that have been identified. 

For example, requiring more independence of audit committees, 
making audit committees responsible for the audit, and other pro- 
posals like that. Of course, in TVA’s case, TVA has no external 
board members. It has no audit committee. Sometimes in its his- 
tory, it has been lucky to have somebody on its board that had ac- 
counting experience. 

The relevance of TVA’s outdated double-duty board to its prob- 
lems of inadequate disclosure is well illustrated by the dialogue 
between the Office of Management and Budget and the TVA 
board over the board’s reticence to provide a basic business plan 
to explain its decision to resuscitate a nuclear unit at its Brown’s 
Ferry site. The unit was licensed to operate in the 1970’s but has 
been closed because of safety concerns since 1985. This effort will 
add eventually somewhere around $1.7 billion to TVA’s debt. The 
effort seems inconsistent with the movement toward the use of 
smaller, more decentralized generating technologies which entre- 
preneurs and large industrial energy users are willing to build on 
their tab in many other parts of the country. 

While I commend OMB for asking these questions. During my 
experience at TVA no one, including OMB, asked these sorts of 
questions. Under the regulatory arrangements, TVA’s competing 
power systems operated with, such a request would come from a 
public utility staff. It would be open for additional comment and 
analysis by other interested parties and there would be no question 
about the need for or desirability of responding to it. 

In summary, should the Tennessee Valley Authority provide 
timely, accurate, and objective information about its operations, 
finances, and performance to its investors and customers and the 
public? Should the information be provided in the same format, use 
the same definitions, terminology, and conventions, cover the same 
time period, provide the same degree of detail, meet the same 
standards for auditing and timely disclosure, as is required of its 
competitors in its primary line of business? Would using SEC 
standards and procedures help progress toward those goals? 

My answer to these questions is, of course. Why doesn’t TVA do 
this? I have heard the answer to this question several times this 
morning but I am still not certain I understand it. 

However, TVA and its customers and its investors have a more 
serious problem of corporate governance and control that is the re- 
sult of an obsolete and inherently contradictory organizational 
structure that is long overdue for a fundamental redesign. 

I want to thank you again for the opportunity to state my views 
and will be happy to answer any questions you may have. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Thank you very much, sir. 

Mr. Gates. 



28 


STATEMENT OF DANIEL GATES 
MANAGING DIRECTOR 
MOODY’S INVESTORS SERVICE 

Mr. Gates. Good morning, Mr. Chairman, and Senator Bunning. 
My name is Daniel Gates and I am a Managing Director with 
Moody’s Investors Service. I am pleased to be here to discuss the 
credit ratings process, and the role of disclosure requirements in 
that process, particularly for the Tennessee Valley Authority. I 
hope that Moody’s views add to the consideration of this issue, 
though I also appreciate that our views represent only one perspec- 
tive on this matter. To begin, I will give a brief overview of what 
we do. 

Although Moody’s rates a wide range of debt obligations, the 
heart of our service lies in rating long-term bonds, for which we 
have nine primary debt rating categories. Investment-grade ratings 
range from a high of Aaa, down to a low of Baa. Overall, Moody’s 
ratings are designed to provide a relative measure of risk, with the 
likelihood of credit loss increasing as the rating decreases. The low- 
est probability of default is expected at the Aaa level, with a higher 
expected default rate at the Aa level, and so on down through the 
rating scale. 

It is equally important to note what our work at Moody’s does 
not include. A rating is neither a buy nor a sell recommendation, 
nor is it a seal of approval; rather, our ratings reflect Moody’s opin- 
ion of the relative creditworthiness of a fixed-income security. Fur- 
thermore, just as we do not insure the bonds we rate, we do not 
audit the financial information provided to us. Accordingly, our rat- 
ings rely heavily on the completeness and veracity of both the pub- 
lic financial statements and any proprietary information that may 
be provided to us by issuers. 

In order to analyze a company’s ability to meet its debt obliga- 
tions, Moody’s analysts rely on a variety of information sources, in- 
cluding publicly-available information that is filed with regulatory 
authorities or is otherwise available, audited financial statements, 
third-party analyses of the company and the industry sector, and 
information provided by the company directly to our analysts. 

In an ideal world, the rating agencies always would have access 
to complete and accurate financial and operational information. We 
strongly believe that in the United States, the Federal securities 
laws add to the reliability of that information because they carry 
with them civil and criminal penalties for inaccurate reporting. 
However, outside the United States, and for some issuers like 
TVA, within the United States, Moody’s and the other rating agen- 
cies for many years have rated companies not subject to SEC re- 
porting requirements. For these entities, Moody’s relies on the com- 
pleteness and veracity of issuers’ public and private disclosure of 
information, along with industry-specific knowledge and macro- 
economic analysis. 

We believe that the TVA has operated in good faith in providing 
accurate and reliable financial information to facilitate our rating 
analysis, though we do prefer that all financial reporting, including 
by TVA, be subject to the disclosure standards set forth in the 1933 
and 1934 Acts. Moody’s analysts have a constructive working rela- 



29 


tionship with multiple contacts at TVA, which provides additional 
background on operational developments, industry news, or Gov- 
ernment proposals. We receive annual and quarterly reports from 
TVA and regular briefing material. 

As with any issuer, Moody’s analyzes multiple factors when rat- 
ing TVA. Thus, we have considered TVA’s protected service terri- 
tory, power costs, ability to set rates, and at the macro level, the 
growth rate of the region it serves. We also consider financial 
measures, including cash flow, balance sheet, capital structure, and 
prospects for raising or lowering debt in the near future. We have 
obtained all of this information directly from the company or from 
third-party sources. Finally, as a general rating approach to Gov- 
ernment Sponsored Enterprises such as TVA, Moody’s uses an inte- 
grated analysis of both the fundamental creditworthiness of the en- 
terprise as a business, and the enterprise’s relationship with the 
U.S. Government. 

To conclude, Moody’s supports steps to improve the quality and 
reliability of the information that market participants, including 
investors and our analysts, receive. This support for higher quality 
information, however, should not be interpreted as reflecting any 
particular concerns over the reliability of the financial information 
we have received from TVA. Rather, as a major consumer of finan- 
cial data and SEC filings, Moody’s supports efforts to enhance 
financial disclosure because these efforts improve the overall reli- 
ability of financial information in the marketplace, and thus con- 
tribute to more efficient capital markets. For that reason, we com- 
mend the SEC for setting forth disclosure alternatives and are glad 
to hear that TVA is willing to work with the SEC to pursue those 
alternatives. We look forward to the results of those discussions. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would be very happy to answer any 
questions. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Thank you very much, Mr. Gates. 

Mr. Crowell, I wanted to ask you, do I understand that the TVA 
is paying out of its power revenues for nonpower activities, and 
particularly for its river flood control projects? You used to get a 
Federal appropriation. Is that correct? 

Mr. Crowell. Correct, right. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Now that Federal appropriation has been 
done away with. Is that right? 

Mr. Crowell. That is right. 

Chairman Sarbanes. As a conscious decision or simply because 
of the workings of the budget process? 

Mr. Crowell. Really, due to the workings of the budget process. 
At the time, we undertook an effort to get away from using tax 
funds to support projects in the Tennessee Valley. It was a joint ef- 
fort between the TVA Board and the Office of Management and 
Budget. It was a proposal to do that that was in the President’s 
budget, the year before we did it. 

Chairman Sarbanes. But you are now carrying burdens that are 
not in any sense part and parcel of the power business. Is that 
right? 

Mr. Crowell. That is correct. These duties are public respon- 
sibilities — river management, economic development. Operations on 



30 


navigation flood control, which normally would be funded by tax- 
payers, are now being funded by the TVA out of power revenues. 

Chairman Sarbanes. You used to receive a Federal appropria- 
tion for that. Is that right? 

Mr. Crowell. That is correct. 

Chairman Sarbanes. And did you also get a Federal appropria- 
tion to do your power work, or did that all stop in 1959, when you 
were given the authority to issue bonds? 

Mr. Crowell. It all stopped in 1959. You are correct, Mr. Chair- 
man. The change was made in 1959. Prior to 1959, the U.S. Treas- 
ury financed TVA’s operations, the power operations. After that, 
TVA financed them independently. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Right. But the nonpower operations, the 
so-called stewardship activities, were still funded by the Govern- 
ment. Correct? 

Mr. Crowell. That is right. That is correct. 

Chairman Sarbanes. What is the order of magnitude of those ac- 
tivities, at least in recent years, if you know? 

Mr. Crowell. In recent years, I would say that the cost of doing 
them adequately would be somewhere around $80 to $90 million a 
year. I think the last year TVA received an appropriation, it was 
in the 1970’s, $70 million. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Now, Dr. Pulsipher, I think I may have 
misunderstood you. But I took something that you said to suggest 
that providing electricity was not part of TVA’s original mandate. 
Is that correct? 

Mr. Pulsipher. That is right. It was set up for flood control navi- 
gation in a fairly broad, unspecified mandate. As a consequence of 
those activities, it started to produce power when it built dams. 
That grew under the leadership of David Lillienthal into the power 
system. 

Chairman Sarbanes. But I always thought it was part of the 
original thinking of the Tennessee Valley Authority legislation. Do 
you recall that? 

Mr. Crowell. I think what Allan is trying to say — and I might 
mention, the Committee probably does not know that Professor 
Pulsipher and I worked together at TVA. We reported to the same 
manager and I have always found him to be a very bright and 
thoughtful person, although I do not agree with him very often. 

[Laughter.] 

Chairman Sarbanes. That happens around here sometimes, too. 

[Laughter.] 

And we make exactly the same statement. 

[Laughter.] 

Mr. Crowell. But, anyway, rural electrification was part of 
Franklin Roosevelt’s campaign I think in 1932, to not only do it for 
the United States, but also to do it for the area of the Tennessee 
Valley. So electrification was a part of TVA’s mandate from the 
start. Allan is correct that, originally, more of the effort went into 
navigation, flood control of the Tennessee River because it flooded 
on an annual basis and caused great economic damage and loss of 
life. But power was always part of that. Electricity was to be sold 
to the people in the Tennessee Valley. 



31 


Over time, with the recognition in 1959 in the Eisenhower Ad- 
ministration that the electrification needed to continue, there was 
a major change made and TVA was then permitted to issue bonds 
in order to finance expansion. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Senator Bunning. 

Senator Bunning. Thank you very much. 

Mr. Crowell, you talked about, and in your statement, you re- 
duced it down a bit, TVA’s aggressively reducing debt. 

Mr. Crowell. Yes. 

Senator Bunning. If TVA continues to pay back debt at the rate 
of $50 million, which is this last year’s annual debt which was re- 
paid, it would take 250 years to do it. How does TVA plan to re- 
structure a debt repayment plan that would eliminate its statutory 
debt of $26 billion? In other words, it is supposed to be a 10-year 
plan that would end in 2007 to reduce it in half. I wonder how we 
are going to do that if we are going to do it at $50 million a year. 

Mr. Crowell. Well, we are obviously not going to do it based on 
$50 million a year. 

The last budget I approved, the debt was reduced by $600 mil- 
lion. Now, the 10-year plan was always viewed as something that 
would be revised on a yearly basis and make changes as a result 
of market conditions and whatever. 

But the reason I made that point in the statement is that we are 
here discussing today before this Committee disclosure issues, 
when personally, I think that the more serious subject should be 
the size of the debt and the need to produce a plan that will reduce 
it in the future, because I think that, as competition occurs, the 
real threat to TVA’s survival is going to be the size of its debt. And 
that is the reason I made that point. I think it is a very important 
issue and I know that you have 

Senator Bunning. Well, that is my reason for examining the debt 
and figuring out the best way to either register it or let everybody 
know exactly what is going on with the debt, because it jumps out 
at you when you look at TVA. 

Mr. Crowell. Absolutely, it does. I would agree with you on 
that. I guess the point I think I am trying to make, Senator, is that 
I do not know that registration is going to get to the heart of the 
problem that you just mentioned and your concern is. 

Senator Bunning. It may not. But something has to. And so, I 
am having the hearing here to get ideas. 

Mr. Crowell. Of course. 

Senator Bunning. We had some on the first panel, the exchange 
between the SEC and Ms. Harris, that may be a way to work out 
something that we have not even talked about. 

Mr. Crowell. Sure. 

Senator Bunning. Mr. Gates, in your triple A rating of TVA’s 
financial statement and corporate governance policies, do you be- 
lieve that they will be able to pay back their bonds because they 
have the implicit backing of the Federal Government and they can 
unilaterally raise rates without worrying about approval of State 
regulators? 

Mr. Gates. As discussed before, the prospectuses and other ma- 
terials make clear that there is not an explicit guarantee. We also 
do not view there being an implicit guarantee. However, Govern- 



32 


ment ownership does have certain things that go with it, and those 
statutory factors together are the most essential factors in the tri- 
ple A rating, and that includes the protected service territory, the 
ability to raise rates without regulatory review, and the Govern- 
ment ownership. 

Senator Bunning. So all the things I mentioned are a real basis 
of fact for your triple A rating. 

Mr. Gates. Those are the three most important factors in the tri- 
ple A rating. 

Chairman Sarbanes. What do you make of the OMB letter we 
received here this morning? 

Senator Bunning. Wait a minute. I have someone here from 
OMB that I am going to ask that question. 

Is Jim Meatus here? Would you try to explain to us the inconsist- 
ency of Mitch Daniels’ letter, where the TVA’s bonds are guaran- 
teed by the Federal Government? Or maybe I misread it or the 
Chairman misread it. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Here it is. 

[Indicating.] 

Senator Bunning. I have it, too. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Okay. 

Senator Bunning. I did not misread it. Could you explain that 
to me? 

Chairman Sarbanes. Sir, I think it would help if you took a 
microphone and identified yourself for the record. 

Senator Bunning. Identify yourself. 

Chairman Sarbanes. We are happy to have you come forward to 
the table at Senator Banning’s request. 

Mr. Meatus. Thank you very much. My name is Jim Meatus. I 
am a Budget Examiner for TVA at the Office of Management and 
Budget. I am honored and pleased to be here today. 

I think, if I were smart, I would go back to the office, say little 
today, and check with the boss to be sure, 100 percent sure, exactly 
what he had in mind. 

Senator Bunning. Did you see the letter? 

Mr. Meatus. Yes. 

Senator Bunning. Okay. 

Mr. Meatus. But I have an opportunity here to perhaps add 
some useful things for people to think about, and let me proceed. 

One of the presenters here today talked about reviews that other 
utilities get. I am proud of the job I do at OMB, but we do have 
one budget examiner looking at this $7 billion a year utility, which 
is point one. 

Point two, Senator, you mentioned that that does jump out at 
you when you look at TVA. And people concerned about TVA’s cus- 
tomers have to be concerned about TVA’s debt. 

Point three, and more directly in answer to your question, I par- 
ticipate in many discussions by thoughtful people about exactly 
what the triple A rating means. For years I believed, and I now 
think I am wrong, that the Federal Government, Senator Sarbanes, 
like you say, would not back up the debt. If TVA ran into problems, 
like any other business, TVA would pay the consequences. But 
about 2 years ago, I discovered that I was the only person at the 
staff level within OMB who believed that, because it was TVA debt, 



33 


because it was Government debt. And that is really important. 
That is really important to come to terms with, it seems to me, be- 
cause how does a business make decisions? 

In part, it makes decisions based on the integrity of the people 
involved, the character and so forth. And certainly, TVA is staffed 
with talented people with integrity. But another practical concern 
is the cost of capital. Frankly, I do not have the numbers in front 
of me. The gentleman from Moody’s undoubtedly could answer the 
question. 

Your planning horizon looks much different if you have a triple 
A rating than if you have something else. I think that it would be 
a useful exercise for people to — and perhaps the gentleman from 
Moody’s could answer the question. If you take one of the rating 
agencies’ rating templates and fill in the blanks for TVA and forget 
about the Federal Government backing up the debt, what would 
the debt, what rating would it be? I do not know the answer. But 
I know people who have told me the answer is somewhat less than 
a triple A. Now, I do not want to overstay my visit and I appreciate 
your patience. I hope my answer has made some sense to you. 

Senator Bunning. Thank you very much. 

Mr. Meatus. I will go back and check with the boss to see 

Senator Bunning. To see what he meant? Mr. Meatus, that 
would really help us. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Mr. Gates, that is a pretty direct challenge 
to you. 

Mr. Gates. Yes, I can respond to that. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Yes, I think you ought to, maybe before he 
leaves the table. 

Mr. Gates. Well, the triple A rating is very heavily based on the 
statutory factors. If those statutory factors were to be changed or 
they were to go away, then certainly, we would review the rating 
for downgrade. 

We do not actually have a rating template. You can look at the 
various financial ratios of any issuer, including the TVA, but you 
have to put those ratios into the context of the business risk of the 
enterprise. And given that TVA has the Federal ownership, the 
protected service territory, the ability to raise rates, and the statu- 
tory requirement that its rates be set at a level that is sufficient 
to cover all of its obligations and its debt, the business risk is per- 
ceived as being very small. So, therefore, the financial ratios, which 
do not alone look triple A, need to be viewed in the context of the 
current status. If that status was changed, then the triple A would 
go on review for downgrade. 

Chairman Sarbanes. I take it, Mr. Meatus, it is not one of your 
objectives this morning that we should walk out of here with TVA’s 
triple A rating downgraded, is it? 

Mr. Meatus. I actually came to hear the hearing today, and I am 
once again pleased and honored to be here. I may get myself in 
trouble. I have no interest in downgrading the triple A rating if it 
is deserved. 

Chairman Sarbanes. All right. I am pleased to hear that. 

Mr. Meatus. If it is deserved. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Senator Bunning, I think you can go on. 

Senator Bunning. Thank you very much. 



34 


Mr. Crowell, I just want to ask one last question because it was 
brought out earlier in the hearing about the recommendation of 
splitting the auditor’s job in 1996 or 1995, I forget exactly the year, 
by the IG. Is it true or false that because or in spite of the fact 
that the IG made that recommendation, that he was fired by TV A? 

Mr. Crowell. Oh, no, no. 

Senator Bunning. He was not fired by TV A? 

Mr. Crowell. No, he retired from TVA. 

Senator Bunning. He retired. 

Mr. Crowell. But this is some years later. In 1995 — let me just 
answer your question. In 1995 

Chairman Sarbanes. You were Chairman, then, right? 

Mr. Crowell. I was Chairman then. 

Senator Bunning. That is why I asked. 

Mr. Crowell. I think you make a good point because the IG 
would have to be commended for making that recommendation in 
1995. Now the fact that he made it to the TVA board and it also 
went to Congress, and the fact that we missed it — if we had a crys- 
tal ball, I certainly would have separated the functions in 1995. 
But in 1995, that was standard operating procedure for all of cor- 
porate America and all of the Government. 

Those are the kinds of issues, Senator, that you wish you could 
go back and do over again, but that was not the case at the time. 

Senator Bunning. They did not report to me in the House, and 
it was my fault because I was not on the Energy Committee over 
in the House. 

[Laughter.] 

Mr. Crowell. No, I am simply making the point that it was 
standard procedure then. Nobody at that time could have pre- 
dicted, in my opinion, the situation that has occurred over the past 
couple of years. That is a situation where, if you had a crystal ball, 
you could be a lot smarter. 

Senator Bunning. I appreciate all of you testifying. Thank you. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Senator Carper. 

Senator Carper. I have no questions, thank you. 

Chairman Sarbanes. Well, this has been a very helpful panel 
and we very much appreciate your coming and being with us today 
and the time and effort that was put into both the written and the 
oral presentations. We thank you very much. 

Senator Bunning. Thank you. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Sarbanes. The hearing stands adjourned. 

[Whereupon, at 12:40 p.m., the hearing was adjourned.] 

[Prepared statements and additional material supplied for the 
record follow:] 



35 


PREPARED STATEMENT OF SKILA HARRIS 

Director, Tennessee Valley Authority 

September 17, 2002 

Good morning, Chairman Sarbanes and other distinguished Members of the Com- 
mittee. My name is Skila Harris, and I serve as Director on the Board of the Ten- 
nessee Valley Authority. On behalf of TVA’s Chairman Glenn McCullough and Di- 
rector Bill Baxter and more than 13,000 employees, I would like to thank you for 
the opportunity to appear here today to give testimony on corporate responsibility 
at the Tennessee Valley Authority, as well as the breadth and depth of financial 
disclosure and oversight at TVA. I would also like to discuss what TVA will do in 
the future to uphold the spirit of the landmark Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We at 
TVA commend you, Mr. Chairman, for your leadership and perseverance on this im- 
portant legislation. 

TVA’s Background 

TVA has a proud heritage of service in the Tennessee Valley. TVA exists to serve 
the public good, and our leadership standard is that TVA will achieve excellence in 
business operations and public service for the good of the people of the Tennessee 
Valley region. Created by Congress in 1933, TVA serves the people of the Valley 
by producing reliable, affordable electric power; supporting sustainable economic 
development; and maintaining stewardship of the region’s natural resources. A 
corporation of the Federal Government, TVA uses the best practices of private 
enterprise to achieve excellence in business operations and public service. 

TVA is entirely self-financing and receives no funding from Congress. TVA’s mis- 
sion, set forth by the TVA Act, remains at the cornerstone of TVA’s day-to-day 
activities in the Valley. TVA is charged primarily with providing navigation, flood 
control, and agricultural and industrial development, while providing electric power 
to the Tennessee Valley region. At the core of TVA’s mission is creating value and 
delivering quality service for stakeholders throughout the region. 

Affordable, reliable electric power is the fuel of the economy in the Tennessee Val- 
ley, and TVA’s power system is setting performance records as it keeps pace with 
increasing power demand. TVA’s electric power system has a winter dependable 
generating capacity of 30,365 MW and operates 59 coal-fired units at 11 plants, five 
nuclear reactors at three plant sites, 29 hydro power plants, and five combustion 
turbine plants. Through 158 local power distributors and 62 directly served in- 
dustrial customers, TVA supplies electricity for 8.3 million people in the Tennessee 
Valley. As the Nation’s largest public power system, TVA reflects the Nation’s 
strengths and challenges in developing a strategy for providing reliable, affordable, 
and environmentally sound energy. 

The Administration has proposed a national energy strategy that includes impor- 
tant efforts to restructure the electric power industry, improving the Nation’s energy 
infrastructure and encouraging competition in the industry. TVA supports these pol- 
icy reforms. 

During this crucial time in our Nation’s history, it is also noteworthy that TVA’s 
mission includes a role in national defense and a long-standing history of support 
for U.S. national security requirements — from the early days of making munitions 
in Muscle Shoals, Alabama, and building dams to supply power for vital aluminum 
factories during World War II, to TVA’s current efforts to assist the Department of 
Energy to obtain tritium. 

In service to the region and the Nation, TVA manages the Tennessee River sys- 
tem, the fifth largest river system in the United States. Although similar respon- 
sibilities for resource management are funded with taxpayer dollars elsewhere in 
the United States, TVA uses no current appropriation dollars for this work. Fiscal 
year 1999 was the last year in which TVA received appropriated dollars for these 
activities. The 652-mile-long river, the 42,000 miles of streams and tributaries, and 
TVA’s 49 dams and 14 navigation locks are a vital part of the Nation’s navigation 
system, providing for the shipping of 45 million tons annually. TVA’s other purposes 
in managing the river system include reducing flood risk and producing hydro 
power. The river and its 12 tributary watersheds touch 125 counties in portions of 
seven States. 

TVA’s Board of Directors is committed to achieving excellence in business oper- 
ations and public service as the organization prepares for the competitive market- 
place of the future. The Board and the employees of TVA are working to optimize 
the corporation’s operational and financial performance while remaining dedicated 
to economic development in the Valley, environmental stewardship, integrated re- 
source management, and stakeholder communications. While there is still much 



36 


work to be done, I am confident that a bright future lies ahead for the people we 
are charged to serve. 

TVA’s Business Practices 

TVA is committed to conducting its business in an open and forthright manner 
that instills confidence in Congress and the Administration and in our investors, our 
customers, and our ratepayers within the Valley and among Federal taxpayers and 
citizens who have an interest in programs run by the F ederal Government. 

TVA’s owners, investors, customers, and other stakeholders, including taxpayers, 
already benefit from a number of protections. I appreciate the opportunity to outline 
those protections and to share with you today what TVA is already doing to ensure 
financial integrity for our stakeholders. 

For the future, TVA is also committed to doing even more, and TVA is making 
specific commitments to corporate responsibility, auditor independence, and in- 
creased financial disclosure that will enable us to keep the continued confidence and 
support of our stakeholders. 

TVA’s Oversight 

TVA’s stakeholders, including investors in its bonds, benefit from and can have 
confidence in the multiple levels of oversight to which the TVA is subject, as a 
corporation wholly-owned by the U.S. Government. Because TVA’s mission as a 
Government-owned corporation is somewhat different from that of publicly-traded 
companies, the oversight under which we operate is different from that under which 
privately-owned, publicly-traded companies operate. 

As I noted earlier, the TVA’s mission is to serve the public interest by supporting 
economic development of the Tennessee Valley, managing a thriving Tennessee 
River system, and supplying low-cost, reliable power to the Tennessee Valley region. 
TVA’s mission is quite different from the profit-oriented goals of an investor-owned 
company. In fact, far from calling upon the TVA to maximize earnings, TVA’s Con- 
gressional charter, the TVA Act, calls for TVA to offer electricity at rates as low as 
are feasible — balanced with an additional requirement that TVA charge rates suffi- 
cient to meet, among other things, the annual principal and interest payments on 
TVA’s bonds. 

Privately-owned, publicly-traded companies have a similar responsibility to pro- 
vide reliable goods and services to their customers while earning a fair return on 
investment for their shareholders. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
has the major regulatory and oversight role with respect to securities of publicly- 
traded companies; and its major focus, appropriately, is on ensuring fairness in the 
issuance and trading of stocks. 

Another difference between TVA and publicly-traded companies is that the owner- 
ship interest in TVA is held by the Federal Government. TVA has an interest in 
protecting the interest of its owner, the U.S. Government and by implication the 
American people, although TVA does not issue stock. Consequently, TVA does not 
have any incentive to generate a return for shareholders, nor can TVA reward exec- 
utive performance with stock options. As a result, the oversight Congress has put 
in place for TVA is different from the oversight for publicly-traded companies. 

But make no mistake, as a Government agency, TVA is subject to considerable 
oversight. 

TVA management is governed by a three-member Board of Directors appointed 
by the President and confirmed by the U.S. Senate. Board members are sworn to 
uphold TVA’s Congressional charter, the TVA Act, which bounds the range of busi- 
ness activities in which TVA can engage. 

TVA, like many other Government agencies, has an independent Inspector Gen- 
eral (IG) with broad audit and investigative powers. TVA’s Inspector General was 
previously appointed by the TVA Board of Directors but, pursuant to recent legisla- 
tion, will be appointed in the future by the President. TVA’s Acting Inspector Gen- 
eral, Mr. Don Hickman, is here with me today. 

TVA’s Inspector General conducts audits of the TVA’s financial systems, business 
decisions, operations, and contracts. The Inspector General is also charged with con- 
ducting investigations of possible fraud, waste, and abuse within TVA. The Inspec- 
tor General routinely publicizes its hotline to employees and investigates reports of 
financial or accounting irregularities, in addition to its other responsibilities. The 
Inspector General provides semiannual reports to Congress and to the public on the 
results of its audit and investigative work. 

In carrying out its audit responsibilities, the Office of the Inspector General pro- 
vides TVA with oversight that is much like that provided by a publicly-held com- 
pany’s Audit Committee. The Office of the Inspector General performs many of the 



37 


same duties and functions as those of an Audit Committee but does so with more 
authority and professional resources. For example: 

• An Audit Committee must include at least one member with financial expertise. 
The Inspector General’s staff that oversees audits of TVA finances includes 19 
certified public accountants. 

• The Inspector General has greater access to TVA financial and management infor- 
mation than would a company’s Audit Committee because the Inspector General 
has access to any information in TVA. 

• The Inspector General has the authority to investigate not only financial matters 
but also any alleged ethics violation in TVA, and the Inspector General is charged 
by Federal statute with aggressively pursuing any such allegation. 

• Also by Federal statute, the Office of Inspector General is independent of the 
Board of TVA. A publicly-held company’s Audit Committee is a committee of the 
company’s Board of Directors. 

• The Inspector General has the authority to investigate any impropriety and report 
expeditiously to the Attorney General whenever the IG has reasonable grounds 
to believe criminal law has been violated. This authority extends not only to in- 
vestigations of actions by TVA managers or employees, but also to actions by peo- 
ple outside TVA, such as contractors and vendors, when an alleged violation is 
related to TVA. 

TVA also has an independent external auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers, which is 
appointed by the TVA Board. The TVA’s Office of the Inspector General provides 
oversight of the firm’s work and maintains the budget for the firm’s annual audit 
of TVA. The Inspector General also has the legal authority to determine whether 
TVA’s audit will be performed by the Office of the Inspector General itself or by an 
independent external auditor. 

PricewaterhouseCoopers audits TVA’s financial statements in accordance with 
Government auditing standards and provides an opinion on whether those state- 
ments are presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, or 
GAAP. TVAs financial results are also included in the Federal Government’s con- 
solidated financial statements, which are audited by the General Accounting Office. 

In addition, Congress exercises considerable oversight over TVA, as exemplified 
by today’s hearing. The U.S. Senate is charged with providing oversight through the 
Environment and Public Works Committee and its Subcommittee on Clean Air, 
Wetlands, and Climate Change. 

The U.S. House of Representatives is charged with providing oversight through 
the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and its Subcommittee on Water 
Resources and Environment. 

The General Accounting Office (GAO) conducts frequent audits of various TVA 
activities and programs, often at the request of Members of Congress. GAO is also 
authorized by the TVA Act and the Government Corporation Control Act to audit 
TVA’s financial statements. 

Under the provision of the TVA Act, TVA is obligated to periodically provide Con- 
gress, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Office of Management and 
Budget, and other interested Federal and State agencies with detailed financial 
and operational information on the generation, transmission, and distribution of 
electric energy by the TVA system. The development and submission of this infor- 
mation is a element of the “yardstick” function that TVA was intended by Congress 
to serve — to better enable Congress to formulate legislative policy for the electric 
power industry. 

TVA also files various reports with the President, Congress, and U.S. Treasury: 

• Under the TVA Act, TVA files an annual report with the President and Congress, 
which contains financial statements and a complete report of TVA’s business 
activities. 

• Under the Government Performance and Results Act, TVA submits annual per- 
formance reports to Congress. 

• Under the Government Corporation Control Act, TVA submits an annual budget 
to the President and TVA’s proposed budget is subject to review and approval by 
the President and his staff in the Executive Branch as part of the normal budget 
preparation process. 

• In accordance with OMB Circular A-34, TVA reports on a quarterly basis its 
financial outlays from the previous quarter to the U.S. Treasury. 

• In addition, the U.S. Treasury frequently asks TVA to provide a forecast of future 
receipts and disbursements. 

Furthermore, before TVA can issue bonds with maturities of 1 year or more, the 
Secretary of the Treasury must approve the time of issuance and maximum interest 



38 


rate of the bonds. Also, since most of TVA’s bonds are listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange and trade through its bond exchange, TVA must meet the NYSE’s listing 
requirements. 

As you can see, TVA, as a Government agency, has a considerable amount of over- 
sight that provides significant assurance to our stakeholders. Additional measures 
further ensure TVA’s integrity in the areas of corporate responsibility, auditor inde- 
pendence, and increased financial disclosure. 

Corporate Responsibility 

By law, all TVA employees must adhere to the standards of ethical conduct for 
Federal employees, which require that all Officers complete ethics training and file 
financial disclosure statements annually. In addition to that requirement, TVA will 
develop a code of financial ethics consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for all Offi- 
cers and Business Managers, as well as a training program on full, fair, accurate, 
timely, and understandable financial and nonfinancial disclosure, TVA’s corporate 
governance practices, and financial ethics requirements for all employees who pre- 
pare TVA’s financial and business reports. 

Beginning with the 2002 TVA Annual Report, TVA’s Board and CFO will certify 
the financial statements and related information for the fiscal year ending Sep- 
tember 30, as well as all future financial statements and related information. The 
Information Statement, which is the TVA’s primary disclosure report to the public 
financial markets, will be similarly certified. The certification process will include 
signed certifications by all TVA Officers and Business Managers of the information 
they provide for these reports. 

Because TVA is wholly-owned by the U.S. Government and cannot issue stock, 
TVA Directors and Officers do not receive stock options. In addition, TVA does not 
presently make personal loans to its Directors or Officers and does not plan to make 
any such loans in the future. 

Auditor Independence 

TVA has significant protections in the area of auditor independence. The inde- 
pendent TVA Inspector General has broad audit and investigative responsibilities. 
The Inspector General conducts ongoing audits of TVA’s operational and financial 
matters in accordance with Government auditing standards. The Inspector General 
also conducts an annual audit of the work of TVA’s independent external auditor, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, to ensure compliance with Government auditing stand- 
ards. TVA’s Office of the Inspector General itself undergoes a peer-review audit 
every 3 years conducted by an Inspector General from another Federal agency. 

Beginning next fiscal year, the TVA will not enter into any new contracts with 
PricewaterhouseCoopers for nonaudit services, and the TVA will phase out all con- 
sulting and actuarial services currently performed by PricewaterhouseCoopers. 

In addition, TVA’s Inspector General, Senior Vice President of Procurement, and 
Chief Financial Officer have clearly defined the roles of all parties with responsibil- 
ities related to the external audit of TVA’s financial statements in order to ensure 
auditor independence, with the Inspector General being responsible for the technical 
management of the audit contract with PricewaterhouseCoopers. 

TVA is taking several other steps to ensure auditor independence, comparable to 
those in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. TVA will require its external auditor to rotate the 
lead audit partner and the audit partner responsible for reviewing the audit every 
5 years. Also, TVA’s CFO, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer will not be hired 
from its external auditor if they have worked on the TVA audit during the preceding 
year. TVA currently does not have a Chief Executive Officer, but this prohibition 
will also apply to TVA’s CEO if TVA has one in the future. 

The TVA Board will ensure an appropriate review of its external audit through 
quarterly meetings with the Inspector General and the external auditor. 

Financial Disclosure 

TVA is committed to fully disclosing all material financial and business informa- 
tion to the public financial markets by providing a steady flow of timely, comprehen- 
sive, and accurate information. TVA currently issues quarterly financial reports and 
publishes an annual report that includes a Management’s Discussion and Analysis 
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and audited financial statements 
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 

We provide Information Statements and Offering Circulars, similar to pros- 
pectuses for publicly-traded companies, to investors and the bankers and brokers 
who sell TVA’s bonds. TVA issues news releases on significant events and conducts 
open Board meetings to ensure that major decisions by TVA’s Board are made in 
a public arena with opportunity for input from the public we serve. 



39 


TVA also conducts an annual conference in New York for financial analysts and 
investors and distributes a detailed Fact Book with information on TVA’s strategy, 
finances, and operations. 

TVA is forming a Disclosure Committee to document procedures for reporting ma- 
terial events and occurrences on a more timely basis. 

Conclusion 

In conclusion, TVA is committed to conducting its business in an open and forth- 
right manner that instills confidence in Congress and the Administration and in our 
investors, our customers, and our ratepayers. TVA already has a number of mecha- 
nisms in place for the protection of its stakeholders, and we are committed to doing 
even more to ensure that we earn your continued support and confidence. 

Thank you. I look forward to answering any questions the Committee might have. 


PREPARED STATEMENT OF ALAN L. BELLER, ESQ. 

Director, Division of Corporate Finance 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
September 17, 2002 

Introduction 

Chairman Sarbanes, Senator Gramm, Members of the Committee, I am pleased 
to have this opportunity to testify before you on behalf of the Securities and Ex- 
change Commission regarding the application of disclosure and reporting require- 
ments of the Federal securities laws to the Tennessee Valley Authority (“TVA”). As 
you know, TVA was statutorily created in 1933, 1 the same year the first of the Fed- 
eral securities laws was enacted. It was formed to provide flood control, navigation 
and agricultural and industrial development and to promote the use of electric 
power in the Tennessee Valley region. From its creation in 1933, TVA has been 
wholly-owned by the U.S. Government and is considered an agency and instrumen- 
tality of the United States. As such, the offer and sale of its securities has been ex- 
empt from registration under the terms of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities 
Act”) and its securities are exempted securities and Government securities under 
the terms of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”). 2 

TVA’s Borrowing Authority and Types of Debt Issuances 

TVA is currently authorized by statute to issue only debt. Until 1959, any indebt- 
edness incurred by TVA was backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. 
In 1959, Congress eliminated the backing of TVA debt by the full faith and credit 
of the United States. Under its current statutory authority, TVA may borrow up to 
$30,000,000,000 to finance its power program and to refund any outstanding bonds 
and is permitted to repay the bonds only from its net power proceeds (and proceeds 
of any bond refunding). 3 The TVA is also obligated to repay the Government for its 
original investment, 4 also known as appropriation investment, which payment was 
$55,000,000 in 2001. At its September 30, 2001 fiscal year end, TVA continued to 
have an obligation to repay the Government its remaining appropriation investment 
of $508,000,000. 

TVA has stated that it issues bonds in a variety of structures and sells its bonds 
to institutional and individual investors on a global basis. According to TVA, as of 
February 28, 2002, it had 49 long-term public bond issues outstanding, including 
at least one specifically designed for individual investors. 5 Based on its 2001 annual 
report, at September 30, 2001, TVA’s long-term debt was $22,359,000,000, and its 
short-term debt in the form of discount notes was $3,016,000,000. At least two of 
TVA’s debt securities, the putable automatic rate reset securities and the Valley 
inflation indexed power securities, are listed and traded on the New York Stock 
Exchange. 


1 16 U.S.C. §831 et. seq. 

2 See Securities Act § 3(a)(2), 15 U.S.C. §77c(a)(2); Exchange Act §§3(a)(12) and 3(a)(42), 15 
U.S.C. §78c(a)(12) and (42). 

3 See 16 U.S.C. §831n-4. 

4 See 16 U.S.C. §831y. 

5 See TVA, Financing Program Highlights, undated. 



40 


Our area of interest as an agency involves disclosure to investors in TVA debt and 
not other aspects of Federal regulation or incentives in the power market. 6 Because 
TVA is wholly-owned by the United States and does not issue any equity securities, 
the most appropriate way to evaluate its disclosure is from the standpoint of debt 
investors. In 1992, the Commission participated with the Department of Treasury 
and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in a Joint Report on the 
Government Securities Market (“1992 Report”). 7 As a Government agency, TVA was 
excluded from the recommendations regarding Government Sponsored Enterprises 
(“GSE’s”) in the 1992 Report. Further, the Commission has not considered the sta- 
tus of TVA since that time. 

Application of the Federal Securities Laws 

As an agency and instrumentality of the United States, the offer and sale by TVA 
of its debt is exempt from registration under the Securities Act, and its securities 
are within the definition of exempted securities and Government securities under 
the Exchange Act. In addition, as part of the 1959 amendments, Congress explicitly 
exempted the issuance and sale of TVA bonds from the requirements or limitations 
of any other law, which includes the Federal securities laws. Therefore, TVA does 
not register the offerings of its debt securities under the Securities Act, and its debt, 
including debt that is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, is not subject to reg- 
istration under the Exchange Act. Congressional action would be required to elimi- 
nate these various statutory exemptions. 

The effect of the exemptions from the Securities Act and the Exchange Act is that 
disclosures by TVA are largely unregulated at the Federal level. Financial state- 
ments are statutorily mandated under the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933. 8 
The staff of the Commission does not review these financial statements or any other 
TVA disclosure documents. However, TVA is subject to general antifraud restric- 
tions prohibiting false or misleading statements of material facts, including the 
omission of material facts necessary to make the statements made, in light of the 
circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. 

TVA is also not subject to the provisions of the recently enacted Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002. 9 For example, TVA will not be subject to the independent audit com- 
mittee requirements, the auditor independence rules, the certification requirements 
or the code of ethics provisions. 

Comparability of Disclosure 

TVA, while a unique Federally owned corporation, has many of the same disclo- 
sure issues as publicly held utilities. TVA bonds are sold to the public in under- 
written offerings. We believe investors in those debt securities are entitled to the 
same type of information as that provided by other issuers of public debt. We fur- 
ther believe that the Commission’s detailed disclosure rules and filing requirements 
and the staff review and comment process provide the best framework for disclosing 
information to which investors are entitled. Currently, TVA’s annual, periodic, and 
offering disclosures have been governed by the demands of market participants and 
antifraud strictures, not by our disclosure rules. 

The effect of the lack of the full faith and credit backing of the United States for 
TVA’s bonds, of course, makes TVA’s disclosure more relevant. Because investors in 
TVA’s bonds may look only to TVA’s net power proceeds (and refunding proceeds) 
for repayment of the bonds, disclosures by TVA should give the holders of its debt 
a materially complete and accurate picture of the TVA’s financial and operational 
situation to evaluate whether there may be sufficient net power proceeds to repay 
their bonds. 

In preparation for this testimony, the staff of the Commission has considered cer- 
tain recent disclosures by TVA available on their website. This overview does not 
represent a full review, has not involved a typical comment process with TVA, and 
does not attempt to cover all the comments the staff might issue in a full review. 
While TVA disclosures in its most recent information statement and annual report, 
quarterly reports, offering circulars and other materials generally include most of 
the same disclosures as companies that file reports with the Commission, there are 


6 TVA, as an agency and instrumentality of the United States, is not subject to the Public Util- 
ity Holding Company Act of 1935, 15 U.S.C. § 79b(c)("PUHCA”). Even without this exemption, 
we understand that TVA would not be subject to PUHCA since it is not permitted to have sub- 
sidiaries and all the utility assets and businesses therefore are held at the TVA level. 

7 Department of the Treasury, Securities and Exchange Commission, Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, Joint Report on the Government Securities Market, January 1992. 

8 See 16 U.S.C. §831h. 

9 Pub. L. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745 (2002). 



41 


certain areas where we believe TVA’s disclosures would be enhanced if the Commis- 
sion’s line item disclosure requirements and staff review applied. 

Financial Statements. TVA provides audited annual financial statements, pre- 
pared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. TVA includes in its information statements 
and annual reports 3 years of Statements of Income, Cash Flows, Changes in Pro- 
prietary Capital and Comprehensive Income (Loss). TVA’s presentation of the types 
and number of years of financial statements appear to be generally consistent with 
Commission rules and the financial statements that other public companies pro- 
vide. 10 The staff did not conduct a complete accounting review, so we are unable 
to state whether the financial statements meet all the line item requirements. 

Management’s Discussion and Analysis. It would appear that TVA provides more 
summary analysis and less trend information than the Commission would seek, al- 
though all of the required categories of information appear to be included. 

Market Risk Disclosure. TVA provides more abbreviated disclosure regarding 
market risk, and in particular less quantitative disclosure, than a public reporting 
company would be required to provide. 11 TVA presents a market risk section that 
briefly discusses risk policies, interest rate and foreign currency risk, commodity 
and equity price risk and forward contracts. The discussion does not quantify the 
effects of price risk for commodity-based derivative instruments. In addition, there 
is very limited quantitative disclosure on interest-rate risk or foreign-currency risk. 
TVA presents no detailed quantified information surrounding its use of derivatives, 
other than identification of the use of interest-rate and currency swap contracts to 
hedge inflation-indexed and foreign currency denominated debt issues, respectively. 

Business and Property. TVA’s discussion of its business is somewhat less com- 
prehensive than that which the staff would typically see in disclosure provided by 
publicly-owned utilities. Some of the differences in the level of disclosure provided 
may be attributed to the different statutory provisions applicable to the TVA and 
to regulated publicly-owned utilities that are subject to the strictures of the 
PUHCA 12 and other State and Federal laws utility, energy and environmental laws. 
Notwithstanding the different regulatory requirements that TVA is subject to, the 
staff might expect to see somewhat more disclosure in a few areas, such as types 
and sources of fuel and supply contracts, regulation and licensing requirements. 

TVA’s description of its properties is also somewhat less detailed than public 
reporting utilities typically provide. For example, most owners of power generation 
facilities include more comprehensive disclosure regarding location of, nameplate 
capacity in Megawatts (MW) and number of generating units in, each plant. TVA 
has included most of this information as it relates to its nuclear plants. However, 
TVA includes only aggregate summary information about its other plants. 

Executive Compensation and Related Party Transactions. The staff did not find 
any disclosure regarding executive compensation and related party transactions. 
TVA is not organized in the same manner as a private corporation — for example, 
the directors are appointed by the President of the United States rather than 
elected by shareholders. TVA’s information statement and annual report do not 
include executive compensation information that would be required by our rules. 
TVA’s information statement and annual report also do not describe any related 
party relationships or transactions. 13 As a Government entity, at least part of the 
information regarding compensation of directors and executive officers is likely pub- 
licly available from sources other than TVA’s website. 

Material Contracts. TVA does not publicly provide copies of the types of contracts 
that are typically filed by reporting companies. 14 These might include power pur- 
chase contracts and long-term supply contracts with five key customers. 

Disclosure Alternatives 

There is a tension between the TVA’s status as a Government agency and instru- 
mentality and the resulting statutory exemptions on the one hand, and the need for 
disclosure that meets Commission standards on the other hand. As previously indi- 
cated, the 1992 Report did not address TVA because it was a Government agency 
and instrumentality. Unlike GSE’s addressed in that report, including Federal Na- 
tional Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation (“Freddie Mac”), TVA is not a profit-making corporation with private 
shareholders. As such, a different statutory regime may be appropriate. 


10 See generally Regulation S-X, 17 CFR 210. 

11 See Item 305 of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.305. 

12 15 U.S.C. § 79a. 

if See Items 402 and 404 of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.402 and 404. 
14 See Item 601 of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.601. 



42 


There are a number of ways that a disclosure regime could be applied to TVA. 
One way would be to change the statutory scheme to eliminate the Securities Act 
and/or the Exchange Act exemptions. Removing the Securities Act exemption would 
result in registration of public offers and sales of TVA’s debt and Exchange Act peri- 
odic reporting at least for so long as TVA had more than 300 holders of any class 
of its debt. 15 Because at least two classes of TVA’s debt securities are listed on a 
national securities exchange, without an Exchange Act exemption TVA would have 
to register these classes under the Exchange Act. 16 Once TVA became subject to the 
reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, it would have to file periodic and cur- 
rent reports with the Commission under Exchange Act Section 13(a), including an 
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports 
on Form 8-K. 17 If TVA registered its securities and became a reporting company, 
its disclosures would have to comply with the Commission’s detailed line item dis- 
closure requirements. 18 Given the Commission’s integrated disclosure system, the 
information available to investors would be virtually identical even without registra- 
tion under the Securities Act. In addition, TVA would become subject to the provi- 
sions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to reporting companies. Further, TVA 
would have to qualify its borrowing resolution as an indenture under the Trust In- 
denture Act of 1939 19 and would have to engage an independent trustee. Since TVA 
does not issue any equity, however, it is important to note that it would not become 
subject to the proxy or ownership reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. 20 

Because TVA is a Government agency and instrumentality and because the Com- 
mission has not considered TVA’s status since the 1992 Report (from which it was 
excluded), we are not advocating such a change in the statutory arrangements 
under which TVA operates. In particular, we believe that the Commission’s objec- 
tive — disclosure that meets Commission requirements and standards — can be 
achieved by alternative means. As one example, exemptions could be conditioned on 
TVA’s providing the same periodic disclosure as required for reporting companies 
under the Exchange Act. Another possibility would be voluntary compliance or reg- 
istration under the Exchange Act, a course of action recently taken by Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac and which achieves effectively the same results in respect of dis- 
closure as eliminating the exemptions. 

Conclusion 

The individual and institutional investors who hold TVA’s debt securities depend 
for repayment on TVA’s net power proceeds and refundings, and not a Government 
guarantee. We believe that applying the Commission’s disclosure requirements and 
processes is the preferred method of ensuring that these investors receive the mate- 
rially accurate and complete disclosure they deserve. TVA’s status and exemptions 
from the registration and reporting requirements of the Federal securities laws are 
not necessarily an obstacle to that result. As previously indicated, there are a num- 
ber of courses of action, including voluntary action by TVA, to achieve the desired 
standard of disclosure that is consistent with the Commission’s standards and re- 
quirements. 


PREPARED STATEMENT OF CRAVEN CROWELL 

Chairman, GCW Consulting 
Former Chairman, Tennessee Valley Authority 

September 17, 2002 

Good morning, Mr. Chairman. My name is Craven Crowell and I served for 8 
years as Chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority. I had the distinct pleasure 
of serving the TVA for a total of 17 years, first as a member of the senior manage- 
ment team and then, as I have said, as Chairman of the Board of Directors. I retired 
last year after 25 years of Federal Government service and now serve as Chairman 
of GCW Consulting, an energy and aviation consulting firm with offices in Arling- 
ton, Virginia. 

The TVA has played a vital role in creating prosperity for people of the Tennessee 
Valley since its creation in 1933. It brought opportunity and hope to thousands of 


15 See Securities Act §5, 15 U.S.C. § 77e; Exchange Act § 15(d), 15 U.S.C. §78o(d). 
16 See Exchange Act § 12(a), 15 U.S.C. § 781(a). 

17 Exchange Act § 13(a), 15 U.S.C. §78m. 

18 See Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229) and Regulation S-X (17 CFR 210). 

19 15 U.S.C. § 77aaa et. seq. 

20 See 17 CFR 240.3al2-ll and Exchange Act § 16(a), 15 U.S.C. §78p(a). 



43 


people who lived mostly in rural areas and who had few prospects for improving 
their lives and the lives of their children. I can remember as a small child when 
TVA electricity first came to the farmhouse where my grandparents lived and the 
excitement electric lighting created in the rural community of Fairview, Tennessee, 
where they lived. 

There is no doubt that the TVA contributed greatly to the quality of life in the 
Tennessee Valley and it is my fervent hope it will continue to play a vital role in 
creating opportunity for many generations to come. I can say with certainty that 
the TVA has played an important role in my life and career and I shall always be 
grateful for having had the opportunity to serve the people of the Tennessee Valley. 

Mr. Chairman, the Committee has asked me to address two questions: whether 
the TVA should be required by Federal law to disclose financial and operational in- 
formation to debt-holders and prospective investors, and, if so, whether the TVA 
should be made subject to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 and the 
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. I want to express my appreciation to the Com- 
mittee for its interest in my views on this important matter. I would, however, like 
to make a few preliminary comments about TVA’s debt that I believe are relevant 
to our discussion this morning. 

In 1959, Congress gave TVA the authority to issue bonds to raise capital for ex- 
pansion and other related activities and subsequently set a debt limit of $30 billion. 
For the next 38 years, the TVA continued to increase its debt until it reached $27.7 
billion. In 1997, TVA realized that not only was the size of the debt coming dan- 
gerously close to its borrowing limit, but also the interest expense as a percent of 
revenue at 34 percent was having a negative impact on TVA’s competitiveness. 

As a result of concerns about the size of the debt, TVA developed a 10-year plan 
in 1997 to reduce the debt and create a stronger financial position in preparation 
for deregulation of the electric power industry. Since 1997, TVA has reduced its in- 
debtedness by almost $2.5 billion and has reduced the interest expense as a percent 
of revenue to 21 percent — producing a savings of nearly $500 million per year in 
interest expense. 

I am pleased the current TVA Board of Directors has continued to focus on reduc- 
ing the debt. In all likelihood, TVA’s debt is greater than the market value of its 
total assets in today’s market, although the agency’s book value remains higher 
than its indebtedness. It is my hope the TVA Board will continue to reduce the debt 
in the years ahead. 

Now, if I may, let me speak to the issue of the disclosure of financial and oper- 
ational information by the TVA. 

During my tenure as Chairman, TVA undertook a significant expansion of its fi- 
nance program in order to lower interest costs. The collective result of those efforts 
over the last few years has resulted in TVA being recognized for its innovation and 
responsiveness to investors. 

TVA entered the global bond market for the first time in 1995 and the same year 
issued its first bonds targeted to retail investors. The retail bonds were enormously 
successful and resulted in a large increase in the number of TVA investors. With 
this came the recognition that TVA would need to increase the opportunities to fur- 
ther disclose and communicate information about the agency that was of signifi- 
cance and importance to the investment community. 

So in 1996, TVA created a staff of investor relations professionals to ensure that 
investors in TVA bonds had information they needed to make informed investment 
decisions. The broad responsibilities of this group were to ensure the adequacy and 
accuracy of disclosures in TVA’s annual report, quarterly reports, information state- 
ments, and periodic offering circulars. 

Additionally, the investor relations department routinely handled hundreds of in- 
quiries from investors. The TVA Board also became more active with the investment 
community and began hosting meetings in New York with major investors and 
began meeting with investors in other countries. 

In every meeting I attended, TVA was viewed as a stable, well-run Government 
corporation that offered a sound investment opportunity. In no instance did any in- 
vestor ever express to me the slightest concern about the business standards of 
TVA, the soundness of the business or the adequacy or timeliness of our disclosures. 

I might add that stable rates are an important signal to investors of TVA’s busi- 
ness stability. But there are other significant signals, as well. Investors have taken 
note of the outstanding operating performance of TVA’s power system. Capacity and 
efficiency are continuing to increase, and, during my tenure, TVA’s nuclear program 
was recognized by the industry for its high level of performance. 

In this discussion, we also should recognize that the TVA’s operations and bond 
indebtedness are already subject to significant oversight to guarantee proper and 
complete disclosure. Two examples include an independent auditor in the form of 



44 


an Inspector General who will be appointed by the President with Senate confirma- 
tion, and the General Accounting Office that has full and complete access to all doc- 
uments and information in TVA’s possession. 

TVA routinely provides information about its finances and operations in many 
other ways. TVA Board meetings are conducted in public with opportunities for the 
public and news media to ask questions on any subject; press releases are issued 
anytime an event occurs of interest to the citizens of the Tennessee Valley or the 
members of the investment community; public meetings on a variety of subjects are 
conducted throughout the TVA area; and, perhaps of most significance, TVA’s oper- 
ations and activities come under the jurisdiction of Oversight Committees in both 
the Senate and House. 

It is my opinion, Mr. Chairman, TVA already exceeds the reporting requirements 
that would be expected of any other corporation both public and private. 

But, let us not forget a key element in this discussion. TVA is a Government cor- 
poration — 100 percent owned by the U.S. Government. It exists for the sole purpose 
of serving the citizens of the Tennessee Valley. Its mandate is to provide services 
at the lowest possible cost and it does not seek to enrich shareholders or corporate 
executives, since it has only one shareholder — the U.S. Government. 

We all are aware that bonds act differently in the marketplace than equity owner- 
ship through stocks. Stock prices can change depending on the vagaries of the 
marketplace and, therefore, are subject to manipulation as all of us with 401(k)’s 
have painfully experienced in the past few months. Bonds, on the other hand, are 
priced at the time of issue, and, while liquidity and interest rates can contribute 
to some changes in value, they are a stable and predictable investment. The TVA 
does not issue stock. 

In response to the Committee’s question about whether the TVA should be made 
subject to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities and 
Exchange Act of 1934, I would hope the Committee would review carefully the dis- 
closures TVA already makes before acting on legislation that, in my view, would 
simply add another layer of bureaucracy to TVA’s operations and result in addi- 
tional cost and a decrease in flexibility. In managing its debt, TVA needs the ability 
to move quickly and take full advantage of refinancing opportunities without being 
encumbered by another layer of process. 

I wish to thank you, Mr. Chairman, and the other Members of the Committee for 
asking me to appear here today. 


PREPARED STATEMENT OF ALLAN G. PULSIPHER 

Executive Director, Center for Energy Studies 
Marathon Oil Company Professor of Energy Policy 
Louisiana State University 

September 17, 2002 

Thank you for the invitation to testify before this Committee. I am the Executive 
Director of the Center for Energy Studies at Louisiana State University. Previously 
I was the Chief Economist at TVA for most of the 1980’s. Other relevant experience 
includes serving as a Program Officer with the Ford Foundation and as a Senior 
Staff Economist with the Council of Economic Advisers under Presidents Nixon and 
Ford. I have followed TVA’s fortunes with interest both as an ex-employee and a 
student of energy policy but my attention has become more sporadic than systematic 
in recent years. 

I have a short statement with four main points that I have outlined as follows. 

First, TVA is a large electric power system not a regional development agency 
that executes governmental functions. Operationally, technologically, functionally, 
and financially it is the same as the other large power systems that operate in the 
Southeastern United States. The exemption of TVA’s securities from provisions of 
the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, to the extent 
that it is derived from the exemption from the registration requirements given to 
securities of municipal, State, and Federal Governments, has no cogent rationale 
today with respect to TVA. 

Second, the accounting and investor protection issues that this Committee has 
spent so much time on this past year are as relevant to TVA as they are to its com- 
petitors. To illustrate: 

a. TVA’s unfinished nuclear plants are likely to go on to the accounting hall of 
fame’s top 10 list of the most “write-off-resistant,” unproductive assets, probably 
ranking just below the Empire State Building’s mooring tower for dirigibles. To my 



45 


recollection, TVA is the only utility that still carries unfinished nuclear plants as 
assets on its books. Despite the fact that it has both cancelled and written off about 
four times as much nuclear construction as its closest competitor in the cancelled 
nuclear plant category. 

b. TVA’s current outside auditor has been retained by the agency for over two dec- 
ades, and also has been the principal consultant to the agency on its accounting, 
informational technology and financial systems, as well as other managerial issues. 
I could not find the calculation or the required data in TVA’s public reports, but 
my hunch is that TVA’s payment for auditing and nonauditing services exceeds the 
$2.69 in nonauditing services for every $1 in auditing services average cited by Mr. 
Bevis Longstreth in testimony before this Committee on March 6, 2002. 

c. TVA recently has executed lease-back arrangements for 16 peaking turbines 
that appear to be designed primarily to keep their financing from appearing on the 
agency’s books as debt. 

Third, these accounting and investor protection issues are more serious for the 
TVA than for its competitors because the agency lacks even the minimal mecha- 
nisms for oversight, disclosure and control, whose adequacy is under consideration 
by this Committee and many others. A unique but un-imitated, full-time, three-per- 
son board appointed by the President for 9-year terms manages TVA. 

a. Many of those who have been appointed have had no experience or specialized 
knowledge of the electricity business before their appointment. A few board mem- 
bers have been effective leaders and strategists, but these have been exceptions 
rather than the rule. 

b. It is useful to keep in mind; TVA “backed into” the electric power business. The 
three-person board arrangement was specified at its inception, well before that time. 
The rationale for the arrangement was that TVA needed to be protected from hostile 
political and economic interests who would be threatened by this frankly experi- 
mental initiative. There were no arrangements included in TVA’s charter to allow 
regional participation or review of its activities. 

c. Thus the oversight, regulatory, disclosure, and auditing functions that are per- 
formed by independent, external public utility commissions for the electric power 
systems with which TVA competes, by default, more than conscious design, are also 
the responsibility of TVA’s three person managerial board. 

Fourth, every study of TVA, the well-known study by Alex Radin former Execu- 
tive Director of the American Public Power Association, the study by Regan Transi- 
tion Team, the study organized by the Southern States Energy Board, have all con- 
cluded that TVA’s three-member board is an antiquated, contradictory, paternalistic 
arrangement which should be replaced by an independent, expanded, regionally- 
based, part-time board. Regardless of politics, every study has made this rec- 
ommendation and, just as consistently, and also regardless of politics, every TVA 
Board has dismissed it out of hand. 

a. The relevance of this arrangement to the problems of accounting accuracy and 
auditing that this Committee is considering can be made clear by considering some 
of the solutions to those problems this Committee and others have identified. In tes- 
timony before this Committee on March 14 of this year the Director of the Brook- 
ings Institution’s Economic Studies Program said: “As long as management con- 
tinues to choose the auditor, the potential will always exist for a conflict that could 
compromise the quality of the audit.” After reviewing a number of possible ways to 
strengthen the oversight of audits, including; requiring that only external board 
members serve on audit committees, charging the audit committee with the selec- 
tion of the auditor, making the selection of the auditor the responsibility of a third 
party, prohibiting auditors from doing nonauditing work; he advised requiring the 
auditor to be hired by the Board’s auditing committee as a pragmatic compromise. 

b. In TVA’s case, of course, the Board has no external members, there is no audit 
committee, and, in fact, it is the consequences of the Board’s own managerial deci- 
sions and policies that the audit should accurately and comprehensively document 
and evaluate. 

c. The more fundamental relevance of the TVA’s outdated double-duty board to 
problems of inadequate disclosure is well illustrated by the dialogue between the Di- 
rector of the Federal Office of Management and Budget and the TVA Board over 
the Board’s reticence to provide a basic business plan to explain its decision to re- 
suscitate a nuclear unit at its Brown’s Ferry site. The unit was licensed to operate 
in the 1970’s but has been closed because of safety concerns since 1985. This effort 
will add about $1.7B to TVA’s debt and seems inconsistent with the movement to- 
ward the use of smaller, more decentralized generating technologies which entre- 
preneurs and large industrial energy users are willing to build on their own tab. 
While I commend OMB for asking these questions, under the regulatory arrange- 



46 


merits TVA’s competing power systems operate, such a request would come from a 
public utility staff and there would be no question about the need or desirability 
of responding. 

d. Another example is the implicit abandonment of TVA’s strategy to insure its 
survival and ability to compete in the future by reducing its debt and interest cost 
by about a half by 2007. In 1997, this strategy was spelled out and well received 
by both customers and investors. Since that time TVA has reduced its debt modestly 
but is far off the path to survival it laid out in 1997. Given this inconsistency be- 
tween plan and performance, I would expect most utility analysts to predict that 
TVA would increase its rates to get back on the survival track it articulated in 1997. 
However, TVA decided to leave its rates unchanged other factors may have changed: 
(1) TVA may have developed a new strategy for reducing costs and revenue require- 
ments, or (2) Revised its assessment of its competitor’s positions, or (3) Decided elec- 
tricity markets will remain, isolated, monopolistic and regulated. But there was no 
incentive, under current arrangements, to articulate and document such changes or 
subject them to evaluation and questioning by knowledgeable, informed, independ- 
ent analysts. The same state of affairs exists about other important issues facing 
the agency. 

In summary, should the Tennessee Valley Authority provide timely, accurate and 
objective information about its operations, finances and performance to its investors 
and customers and the public? Should the information be provided in the same for- 
mat, use the same definitions, terminology and conventions, cover the same time 
period, provide the same degree of detail, meet the same standards for auditing and 
timely disclosure, as is required of its competitors in its primary line of business? 
Would using SEC standards and procedures help progress toward those goals? 

My answer to these questions is “of course.” 

However, TVA, its customers and its investors have a more serious problem 
of corporate governance and control that is the result of an obsolete and inher- 
ently contradictory organizational structure that is long overdue for a fundamental 
redesign. 

I want to thank you again for the opportunity to state my views and will be happy 
to answer any questions you may have. 


PREPARED STATEMENT OF DANIEL GATES 

Managing Director 
Moody’s Investors Service 

September 17, 2002 

Introduction 

Good morning, Mr. Chairman and Members of the Committee. My name is Daniel 
Gates, and I am a Managing Director of Moody’s Investors Service. I am pleased 
to be here today to discuss the credit ratings process, and the role of disclosure re- 
quirements in that process, particularly for the Tennessee Valley Authority. I hope 
that Moody’s views add to the Committee’s consideration of this issue, though I also 
appreciate that our opinions represent only one perspective on this matter. 

Moody’s Role in the Financial Markets 

To understand the relationship between financial disclosure requirements and our 
work at Moody’s, a summary of Moody’s role in the financial markets may be help- 
ful. For over 100 years, Moody’s has played an important part in providing inde- 
pendent credit analysis and opinion to investors. Moody’s assigns credit ratings to 
debt instruments and to other obligations to reflect the relative creditworthiness of 
those obligations. Moody’s is the oldest credit rating agency, founded by John Moody 
in 1900 to rate the creditworthiness of railroad bonds. As early as 1924, Moody’s 
was rating nearly every bond in the United States market, as well as many inter- 
national bonds. 

Today, Moody’s is a leading global credit rating and research firm with more than 
800 analysts worldwide. Our credit ratings cover a broad range of debt instruments 
totaling over $30 trillion, and our analysts publish research that covers thousands 
of institutions. Moody’s ratings are valuable informational tools used by: (1) institu- 
tional investors to analyze the credit risks associated with fixed-income securities 
and other obligations; (2) issuers seeking access to the capital markets; (3) regu- 
lators, for such purposes as measuring the capital adequacy of banks, broker- 
dealers, and insurance companies; and (4) governments, economists, the media, aca- 
demics, and other market observers. 



47 


Ratings contribute to efficiencies in financial markets by providing credible and 
independent opinion forecasts of credit risk. The predictive quality of our credit rat- 
ings is empirically verifiable, and is evaluated by Moody’s and by independent third 
parties. Our track record is published annually in our default studies. We make our 
historical ratings and default data available to subscribers, interested scholars and 
regulators. Although Moody’s rates a wide range of debt obligations, the heart of our 
service lies in rating long-term bonds, for which we have nine primary debt rating 
categories. Investment-grade ratings range from a high of Aaa, down to a low of 
Baa. Ratings from Ba to C are considered noninvestment grade or speculative grade. 
Overall, Moody’s ratings are designed to provide a relative measure of risk, with the 
likelihood of credit loss increasing as the rating decreases. The lowest probability 
of default is expected at the Aaa level, with a higher expected default rate at the 
Aa level, a yet higher expected default rate at the single-A level, and so on down 
through the rating scale. 

It is equally important to note what our work at Moody’s does not include. A rat- 
ing of Aaa is neither a buy recommendation, nor is it a seal of approval; rather, 
the Aaa rating, like all of our ratings, reflects Moody’s opinion of the relative credit- 
worthiness of a fixed-income security. Furthermore, just as we do not insure the 
bonds we rate, we do not audit the financial information provided to us. Accordingly, 
our ratings rely very heavily on the completeness and veracity of both the public 
financial statements and any proprietary information that may be provided to us 
by issuers. 

The Moody’s Rating Process 

Moody’s takes a number of steps to ensure the rigor of our ratings process. We 
assign ratings by committee. Rating committees vary in size, and generally include 
senior and junior analysts and one or more managing directors. A Credit Policy 
Committee (CPC) and credit standing committees under the control of the CPC re- 
view ratings practices and policies internally. 

Moody’s takes active steps to maintain the integrity of our ratings process. 
Moody’s analysts are not evaluated or compensated based upon the revenues associ- 
ated with their portfolios, nor are they permitted to hold or trade the securities of 
the issuers they rate except in diversified funds managed by professional managers. 
Moody’s also does not create investment products, or buy, sell, or recommend securi- 
ties to users of our ratings, or invest in securities for its own account. Furthermore, 
although we derive 90 percent of our annual revenue from the issuers that we rate, 
we recognize that the long-term value of our franchise depends on our independence 
and objectivity, and ultimately on the predictive value of our ratings, an analysis 
of which we publish annually. The influence of individual issuers is further limited 
because Moody’s does business with over four thousand issuer groups. 

The Role of Disclosure Requirements for Moody’s 

In order to analyze a company’s ability to meet its debt obligations, Moody’s 
analysts rely on a variety of information sources, including publicly-available infor- 
mation that is filed with regulatory authorities or is otherwise available, audited fi- 
nancial statements, third-party analyses of the company and the industry sector, 
and information provided by the company directly to our analysts. Moody’s ratings 
are based primarily upon the issuer’s published financial reporting, and we believe 
that SEC’s disclosure requirements are strong enough that, in the great majority 
of cases, we have sufficient public information to express an opinion. In addition, 
as a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization, companies are per- 
mitted to share material nonpublic information with Moody’s. Each Moody’s analyst 
and managing director has a portfolio of companies that he or she tracks. Moody’s 
analysts speak periodically with issuing companies to obtain additional information, 
and all of these data are incorporated into the ratings process. 

In an ideal world, the rating agencies always would have access to complete and 
accurate financial and operational information. The disclosure requirements created 
by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (“1933 
and 1934 Acts”) contribute to the integrity of the financial information Moody’s re- 
ceives by creating civil and criminal penalties for inaccurate or incomplete report- 
ing. As a general matter, our preference is that all financial information provided 
to our analysts be complete and reliable. We strongly believe that in the United 
States, the Federal securities laws add to the reliability of that information. Outside 
the United States, and for some classes of issuers within the United States, how- 
ever, Moody’s conducts analysis without SEC-mandated disclosure by obtaining 
information directly from the companies and other sources. Moody’s and the other 
ratings agencies for many years have rated companies not subject to reporting re- 
quirements, such as foreign issuers and Government agencies, including the Ten- 



48 


nessee Valley Authority. For these entities, Moody’s relies on the completeness and 
veracity of issuers’ public and private disclosure of information, along with industry- 
specific knowledge and macroeconomic analysis. 

While we prefer that all financial reporting be subject to the disclosure standards 
set forth in the 1933 and 1934 Acts, we believe that the TVA has operated in good 
faith in providing accurate and reliable financial information to facilitate our rating 
analysis of the Authority’s power bonds. Moody’s analysts have a constructive work- 
ing relationship with multiple contacts at the TVA, and Moody’s analysts regularly 
call on these contacts to provide, for example, additional background on operational 
developments, industry news, or Government proposals. We receive annual and 
quarterly reports from TVA and regular briefing material. 

As with any issuer, Moody’s analyzes multiple factors when rating the TVA. To 
illustrate, we have considered TVA’s cash flow, balance sheet, capital structure, 
prospects for raising or lowering debt in the near future, protected service territory, 
power costs, ability to set electric rates, and at the macro level, the growth rate of 
the region it serves. We have obtained all of this information from the company di- 
rectly or from third-party sources. Furthermore, as a general rating approach to 
Government Sponsored Enterprises such as TVA, Moody’s uses an integrated anal- 
ysis of both the fundamental creditworthiness of the enterprise as a business, and 
the Enterprise’s relationship with the U.S. Government. 

Conclusion 

As I have stated, Moody’s supports steps to improve the quality and reliability of 
the information that market participants, including investors and our analysts, 
receive. This support for higher quality information, however, should not be inter- 
preted as reflecting any particular concerns over the reliability of the financial infor- 
mation we have received from TVA. Rather, as a major consumer of financial data 
and SEC filings, Moody’s generally supports efforts to enhance financial disclosure, 
because they improve the overall reliability of financial information in the market- 
place, and thus contribute to more efficient capital markets. 



49 


Original OMB Letter— Submitted Prior to The Hearing 

EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT 
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET 
WASHINGTON. Q.C. 20503 


THE DIRECTOR 



September 16, 2002 


The Honorable Paul S. Sarbanes 

Chairman, Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D.C. 20510 

Dear Mr. Chairman: 

Thank you for the opportunity to discuss the merits of additional disclosure of 
information regarding the finances of the Tennessee Valley Authority (TV A). 

As you know, TVA is a corporation of the Federal government and therefore subject like 
other government agencies to the oversight and reporting requirements appropriate to Federal 
agencies. However, TVA also finances its operations through the issuance of debt held by the 
public. Therefore, it is of interest to those who purchase or trade in this debt to have access to 
complete and accurate information regarding TVA’ $ financial condition and operations. 

The President has said he would like TVA to be “ran like a business,” which should 
include reporting financial information commensurate with private sector disclosures. The 
Administration also expects energy markets to be more competitive in the future, and therefore it 
makes sense for all competitors in the marketplace to follow a common set of disclosure rules. 
Having TVA conform its disclosures to Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) 
requirements could be a useful step in that direction. 

It is useful to consider financial disclosures for TVA in relation to those for Government- 
Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) that, unlike TVA, are privately owned. The Administration has 
previously stated its view that all GSE$ should comply with the same corporate disclosure 
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “1934 Act”), as interpreted and applied 
by the SEC. Although TVA is a corporation of the Federal government, comparable disclosures 
could be of interest to the public as well as private investors in TVA’s debt securities. Such 
disclosures could be accomplished by TVA without legislation, although under current law SEC 
does not have the authority to compel TVA to provide them. 

TVA is similar to the GSEs in that both TVA and the GSEs issue debt securities, 
although TVA’s are backed by the federal government and those of the GSE’s are not. However, 
TVA does not issue equity securities that would automatically trigger SEC oversight. It also 
does not appear that TVA can enter the SEC’s voluntary disclosure regime under the 1934 Act, 
which Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac recently committed to enter. 

Thank you for the opportunity to share our observations. 


Sincerely, 

Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr. 
Director 



50 


Revised OMB Letter— Submitted After The Hearing 



EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT 
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET 
WASHINGTON. DC. 20503 


September 16, 2002 


The Honorable Paul S. Sarbanes 

Chairman, Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D.C. 20510 

Dear Mr. Chairman: 

Thank you for the opportunity to discuss the merits of additional disclosure of 
information regarding the finances of the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA). 

As you know, TVA is a corporation of the Federal government and therefore subject like 
other government agencies to the oversight and reporting requirements appropriate to Federal 
agencies. However, TVA also finances its operations through the issuance of debt held by the 
public. Therefore, it is of interest to those who purchase or trade in this debt to have access to 
complete and accurate information regarding TVA’s financial condition and operations. 

The President has said he would like TVA to be “run like a business,” which should 
include reporting financial information commensurate with private sector disclosures. The 
Administration also expects energy markets to be more competitive in the future, and therefore it 
makes sense for all competitors in the marketplace to follow a common set of disclosure rules. 
Having TVA conform its disclosures to Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) 
requirements could be a useful step in that direction. 

It is useful to consider financial disclosures for TVA in relation to those for Government- 
Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) that, unlike TVA, are privately owned. The Administration has 
previously stated its view that all GSEs should comply with the same corporate disclosure 
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “1934 Act”), as interpreted and applied 
by the SEC. Although TVA is a corporation of the Federal government, comparable disclosures 
could be of interest to the public as well as private investors in TVA’s debt securities. Such 
disclosures could be accomplished by TVA without legislation, although under current law SEC 
does not have the authority to compel TVA to provide them. Such disclosures could be 
accomplished by TVA without legislation, although under current law SEC does not have the 
authority to compel TVA to provide them. 

TVA is similar to the GSEs in that both TVA and the GSEs issue debt securities. TVA is 
different from the GSEs in that some GSEs issue equity securities but TVA does not. This may 
limit the SEC’s legal authority to conduct oversight of TVA disclosures. 

Thank you for the opportunity to share our observations. 


Sincerely, 

0 * — -tJ£. 

Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr. 
Director 



