Chevron 


_ —- ~~ 
— -= 
= we. = j 
el — 
= >? 
- —_ 


man Energy 


2005 Annua 


[ “WHAT WE'RE MADE OF” ; 


Hurricanes Katrina and Rita interrupted crude oil and 
natural gas production in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and 
temporarily shut down one of our largest refineries. 
Chevron employees throughout the region responded 
to the storms with exceptional courage, compassion 
and commitment. They rescued neighbors, located 
colleagues and provided urgently needed food, water, 
clothing and medical aid to local communities. At 


_the same time, they launched a massive, around- 


the-clock effort to restore production, refining, 


transportation and marketing operations and to 
deliver critically needed emergency fuel to the region. 
“There wasn't a barrier we couldn't overcome,” says 
Roland Kell, general manager of the Pascagoula, 
Mississippi, refinery, which was damaged by the 
storms. “We truly found out what we're made of.” 


ON THE COVER: Roland Kell, general manager, Pascagoula Refinery. 
ON THE BACK COVER: The employee team who led relief efforts 
and the safe startup of the refinery: (left to right) Val Vialpando, 
Darin Matthews, Amy Brandenstein, Amy Jones, Brian Beech, Marisa 
Jackson, Bob Phillips and Christine Sims. 


GROWING ENERGY DEMAND IS ONE OF THE 
WORLD'S GREAT CHALLENGES. Together, 
we must continue to find innovative ways to 
provide the energy that will fuel economic 
development and improve the quality of life 
for people everywhere. At Chevron, we are 
relentlessly focused on producing safe, reli- 
able energy now and for the future. How are 
we doing it? By applying the energy we have 
most in abundance: human energy — our own 
and that of our partners around the world. 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Letter to Stockholders 2 Ultraclea ae ee the Future 15 
2005 was a year of unprecedented With o 5 ure pa a we 
accomplishment and challenge. are es eee technol- 
ogy that turns natural gas into an 
Skyscraper a ultraclean transportation fuel 
The first ph f the Benguel 
lize-Lobito Tomb development. Drilling for Success us 
offshore Angola, was completed. The Unocal merger gave us exce 
ent assets and talent 
Explor oe rGrowth 9 
Tahiti i of the largest, deepest Human Energy - In Abundance 18 
and nee ti ‘ant discoveries 's made Human energy is evident every- 
S date in the U.S. Gulf of Mex where at Chevron — take a look at 
he people wh generating it. 
Technolo es Gi t Drives Results 11 
Sta te-of-the-art injec oe n technolo Bx Operating Highlights 20 
expecte' ee a nificantly in Milestones were achieved that are 
os oducti acity He rom the See aN building a platform for future success 
Tengiz Fie an ae akhstan 
Glossar y of Energy and Financia | 
Delivering the Promise of Term 
N e [Gas 13 Financial Review 2 
2005 was a year of milestones for Five-Year Operating Summary 87 
develo ay g Chevron it | Five-Year Financial Summar: y 88 
gas fish West Board of Direct 103 
Au i Corporate Offic 104 


TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS 


2005 was a year 
of unprecedented 
accomplishment 
and challenge for 
our company. 


We reported record earnings and completed the acquisi- 
tion and integration of Unocal. We made major new 
discoveries of crude oil and natural gas and took sig- 
nificant steps to expand our global natural gas business. 
Although our employees and facilities sustained damage 
from back-to-back hurricanes in the U.S. Gulf Coast, we 
are recovering with remarkable resilience and efficiency. 


Our financial performance reflects the capital discipline 
that is necessary to create sustained value and growth. 
Net income in 2005 was $14.1 billion on sales and other 
operating revenues of $194 billion — representing record 
levels in both categories. Return on capital employed for 
the year was a strong 21.9 percent. We increased our divi- 
dend in 2005 for the 18th consecutive year, completed the 
purchase of $5 billion of the company’s shares in the open 
market under a program started in 2004 and initiated a 
new program to acquire up to an additional $5 billion of 
shares over a period of up to three years. A critical mea- 
sure of our performance, total stockholder return (TSR), 
was 11.3 percent for 2005. From 2001 through 2005, 
TSR averaged 9.7 percent, among the highest of our larger 
peer companies. 


MAINTAINING MOMENTUM We executed strongly 
against our key business strategies in 2005, enhancing 
our foundation for current and future growth. The suc- 
cessful integration of Unocal’s operations strengthened 
our competitive profile in key markets, particularly in 
Southeast Asia, where we are in the top tier of natural 
gas producers. Unocal’s world-class assets in Asia, the Cas- 
pian and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico are a superb strategic 
fit with Chevron’s portfolio and capabilities. In addition, 
Unocal provided us with a deep source of talent and lead- 
ing-edge technology, particularly with the drill bit, that 
we are integrating throughout our enterprise. 


We enhanced our position in the deep water with dis- 
coveries at Big Foot and Knotty Head in the U.S. Gulf of 
Mexico and at Manatee offshore Trinidad and Tobago, 
among others. Our combination of experience and applied 
technology resulted in a total of 31 successful exploration 
wells in 2005 and an exploration success rate of 58 percent, 
one of the best in the industry. 

We reached key milestones in our queue of major 
capital projects, most notably the Benguela Belize-Lobito 
Tomboco deepwater project in Angola, which is the first 
of our “Big 5” projects to begin production. We began 
construction of production facilities for the Tahiti (U.S.) 
and Agbami (Nigeria) deepwater projects, as well as the 
Escravos gas-to-liquids plant in Nigeria. Our global gas 
business reached key agreements with Japanese utility 
companies for future sales of liquefied natural gas (LNG) 
from the Gorgon project in Australia into Japan, the 
world’s largest LNG market. 

Refining and marketing operations benefited from 
strong margins in Asian and U.S. markets, and we moved 
forward with expansion plans at our largest U.S. refin- 
eries. In Asia, we approved a major upgrade of the Yeosu 
Refinery in South Korea, the world’s fourth-largest refin- 
ery, to enable heavy oil processing. 

Our planned capital and exploratory spending pro- 
gram for 2006 is $14.8 billion, a 34 percent increase over 
2005. This level of investment is aligned with our strong 
queue of growth projects and our commitment to bring 
new energy supplies to market. 


COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE The operating environ- 
ment for the energy industry continues to be challenging. 
With a sustained increase in global demand, tight supplies 
and a dynamic geopolitical situation, we continue to 
believe our industry is dealing with a fundamentally new 
energy equation. To some extent, risk in our industry has 
shifted from below ground — where Chevron has proved 
extremely effective at finding and producing hydrocarbons 
— to above ground, where challenges include access to 
resources, barriers to the free flow of capital investment 
to produce those resources and the economic develop- 
ment of infrastructure needed to connect energy supplies 
to markets. 

In this environment, the competitive advantage will go 
to companies that demonstrate sustained performance and 
operating excellence, apply new technology in ways that 


drive results, and create partnerships that enable the effi- 
cient execution of complex cross-border projects. These 
are all core capabilities of Chevron. 


HUMAN ENERGY: THE HEART OF CHEVRON Our 
success in 2005 was defined by a number of factors -— 
robust strategies, consistent execution, a safety record 
that is among the best in our business, innovative technol- 
ogy and strong commodity prices. But the fundamental 
contributor to our success is the people of Chevron. Their 
dedication, resourcefulness and sheer ingenuity were on 
display throughout the year and were dramatically high- 
lighted in our response to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. 
Whether it was Chevron employees helping each other, 
assisting the community or working to restore energy 
supplies to the marketplace as quickly as they did, their 
actions were truly heroic. 


It is our people who develop our strategies, build our 
partnerships, create new technology, ensure that we oper- 
ate safely and ethically, and manage the great risks that 
are part of our business. It is this “human energy” that 
this year’s Annual Report celebrates. It is at the heart of 
Chevron. And it will continue to drive our mission to 
deliver safe, clean and reliable energy to fuel economic 
growth and human progress. 

Thank you for your continued support. 


Doere OK eel, 
DaveE O’REILLY 


CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 


FEBRUARY 27, 2006 


“IT 1S OUR PEOPLE WHO DEVELOP OUR STRATEGIES, BUILD OUR 
PARTNERSHIPS, CREATE NEW TECHNOLOGY, ENSURE THAT WE 
OPERATE SAFELY AND ETHICALLY, AND MANAGE THE GREAT 
RISKS THAT ARE PART OF OUR BUSINESS. IT IS THIS ‘HUMAN 
ENERGY’ THAT THIS YEAR'S ANNUAL REPORT CELEBRATES.” 


CHEVRON FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 


Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 2005 2004 % Change 
Net income $ 14,099 S$ 13,328 6% 
Sales and other operating revenues $ 193,641 S$ 150,865 28% 
Capital and exploratory expenditures* $ 11,063 $ 8,315 33% 
Total assets at year-end $ 125,833 S$ 93,208 35% 
Total debt at year-end $ 12,870 S Wire 14% 
Stockholders’ equity at year-end $ 62,676 $ 45,230 39% 
Cash provided by operating activities $ 20,105 $ 14,690 37% 
Common shares outstanding at year-end (Thousands) 2,218,519 2,092,952 6% 
Per-share data 
Net income - diluted $ 6.54 $ 6.28 4% 
Cash dividends $ 1.75 S$ 1.53 14% 
Stockholders’ equity $ 28.25 S$ 21.61 31% 
Common stock price at year-end $ 56.77 SS By 8% 
Total debt to total debt-plus-equity ratio 17.0% 19.9% 
Return on average stockholders’ equity 26.1% 32.7% 
Return on capital employed (ROCE) 21.9% 25.8% 


*Includes equity in affiliates 


NET INCOME* 
Billions of dollars 


UsHo $14.1 


12.0 
9.0 
6.0 
3.0 
0.0 | | 


01 02 03 04 05 


Net income rose on the con- 
tinued strength of upstream 
operations. Special-item charges 
in 2002 reduced earnings more 
than $3 billion. 


*Includes discontinued operations 


SALES & OTHER 
OPERATING REVENUES 
Billions of dollars 


200.0 $193.6 


150.0 


100.0 
50.0 | 
0.0 


01 02 03 04 05 


mw Chemicals & Other 

m= Crude Oil & Condensate, Natural 
Gas & Natural Gas Liquids 

u Petroleum Products 


Sales and other operating revenues 
increased 28 percent on higher prices 
for crude oil, natural gas and refined 
products, and the inclusion of Unocal 
for five months post-acquisition. 


CAPITAL & EXPLORATORY 
EXPENDITURES* 
Billions of dollars 


12.0 
Silt 


8.0 
6.0 
4.0 
2.0 
0.0 


01 02 03 04 05 


m Chemicals & Other 
= Refining, Marketing & Transportation 
m= Exploration & Production 


Capital and exploratory expendi- 
tures increased 33 percent from 
2004. Years 2001 and 2002 were 
higher due to additional investments 
in equity affiliates Tengizchevroil 
and Dynegy Inc. 


*Includes equity in affiliates but 
excludes cost of Unocal acquisition 


CASH PROVIDED BY 
OPERATING ACTIVITIES 
Billions of dollars 


25.0 


20.1 
20.0 S 


15.0 


10.0 
5.0 | 
0.0 


01 02 03 04 O05 


Operating cash flow increased 
37 percent mainly due to higher 
earnings in the upstream segment. 


CHEVRON OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS’ 


2005 2004 % Change 

Net production of crude oil and natural gas liquids (Thousands of barrels per day) 1,669 EO (2)% 
Net production of natural gas (Millions of cubic feet per day) 4,233 3,958 7% 
Net oil-equivalent production (Thousands of oil-equivalent barrels per day) 2,517 2,509 = 
Refinery input (Thousands of barrels per day) 1,883 1,958 (4)% 
Sales of refined products (Thousands of barrels per day) 3,768 3,908 (4)% 
Net proved reserves of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids? (Millions of barrels) 

—Consolidated companies 5,626 5 Sik 2% 

—Affiliated companies 2,374 2,462 (4)% 
Net proved reserves of natural gas? (Billions of cubic feet) 

—Consolidated companies 20,466 16,128 27% 

-Affiliated companies 2,968 3,547 (16)% 
Net proved oil-equivalent reserves? (Millions of barrels) 

—Consolidated companies 9,037 8,199 10% 

-Affiliated companies 2,869 3,053 (6)% 
Number of employees at year-end? 53,440 47,265 13% 


‘Includes equity in affiliates, except number of employees 
2 At the end of the year 
Excludes service station personnel 


CHEVRON YEAR-END 


RETURN ON CAPITAL 


ANNUAL CASH DIVIDENDS COMMON STOCK PRICE* EMPLOYED NET PROVED RESERVES 
Dollars per share Dollars per share Percent Billions of BOE* 
2.00 60 $56.77 30 12.0 
Siew 
24 9.0 
1.50 45 21.9 9.0 ] I ] i 
18 | 
1.00 30 6.0 
12 
0.50 15 3.0 22) 
} | 
0.00 (0) (0) il 0.0 


01 02 03 04 O05 


The company increased its annual 


01 02 03 04 O5 


The company's stock price rose 


01 02 03 04 O05 


Although earnings reached a 


01 02 03 04 O05 


a Other International 


dividend payout for the 18th 8 percent during 2005, outpacing record level in 2005, return on Asia-Pacific 
consecutive year. the broader market indexes. capital employed declined to = Indonesia 
21.9 percent due to the higher arctica 


*2001-2003 adjusted for stock 
split in 2004 


capital base resulting from the 
Unocal acquisition. 


a United States 
a Affiliates 


Net proved reserves for consolidated 
companies climbed 10 percent in 
2005, primarily due to the Unocal 
acquisition. 


*Barrels of oil-equivalent 


RHONDA repwine 


BENGUELA BELIZE PROJECT 
> ANGOLA 


R Mechanical 
Engineer, Tulane University 
(New Orleans, Louisiana); 
26 years with Chevron. 

Reading novels 
and travel books. 


a's scone 
source of future en ry 


installedhone of the t 


lade structuresm rid. Itisa 
ible Achievement and a credit to the 
is developing this giant field.” 


Skyscraper at Sea 


The $2.3 billion Benguela Belize-Lobito Tomboco (BBLT) development is a testament to our ability 
to manage large and complex projects. In 2005, we completed the first phase of the groundbreak- 
ing development ahead of schedule, within budget and, most important, in a safe manner. A major 
part of the project was installing a drilling and production platform that stands 1,680 feet (512 
meters) high, among the tallest man-made structures in the world. The Offshore Energy Associa- 
tion recognized the platform as “Project of the Year.” Initial production from the Belize Field began 
in early 2006. When BBLT is fully onstream, maximum total production is expected to be approxi- 
mately 200,000 barrels of crude oil per day. 


| A COMMITMENT TO AFRICA | | a [| | 


BBLT is more than one of our “Big 5” capital projects — it demonstrates our ongoing commitment to Africa. We are one of 
the largest U.S. private investors in sub-Saharan Africa, an area that holds enormous potential for adding to the world's 
energy supplies. Although it has made significant progress, Africa remains one of the world’s most challenging regions 
in terms of social and economic development. We are partnering with governments and local communities to help the 
region develop its energy resources in ways that will stimulate economic growth and improve the quality of life. 


to develop Ta 
miles a 


Exploring for Growth 


A string of discoveries in the deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico has established Chevron as one of the 
industry's top explorers. Credit belongs, in large measure, to technical teams who are applying 
proprietary technology that can map deepwater reservoirs with unprecedented clarity. The image 
of the Tahiti Field, above, penetrates through thick layers of subsurface salt and other challenges 
that distort traditional seismic imagery. Chevron has a major position in the deepwater Gulf and is 
investing heavily to increase energy supplies from the area. A “Big 5” project, Tahiti is one of the 
largest, deepest and most significant discoveries made to date in the Gulf. 


| AN EXPLORATION SUCCESS STORY | [J [| 


Since 2002, Chevron has almost doubled its exploration discovery rate. In 2005 alone, the company drilled 
31 successful exploration wells, achieving a success rate of 58 percent. Our exploration efforts have added 
significant new resources to our existing crude oil and natural gas resource base. We are focused on convert- 
ing those undeveloped resources into proved reserves. 


ZHANUZAK urazov 


| | | I FIELD REGULATORY 
COMPLIANCE MANAGER 


TENGIZCHEVROIL 
> KAZAKHSTAN 


PROFESSIONAL: Petroleum Engineer, 

Kazakh National Technical 

University (Almaty, Kazakhstan); 

13 years with Tengizchevroil, 

25 years at the Tengiz Field. 

PERSONAL: Reading, movies and am 
dining out. 


| have never seen a project with this kind 
of potential. We are taking technology to 
new levels of sophistication to produce a 
long-term increase in oil recovery and make 
Tengizchevroil even more productive.” 


// 
V1, 


oe 
—_— 
aaa 
- 
- 


600 = 


\ 


BARRELS 
PER DAY 
(Thousands) 


Technology That Drives Results 


At Kazakhstan's giant Tengiz oil field, state-of-the-art injection technology is being developed that 
will increase crude oil production capacity from 300,000 barrels per day in 2005 to an estimated 
460,000 to 550,000 barrels per day by the third quarter of 2007. Our “Big 5" $5.5 billion Sour Gas 
Injection/Second Generation Plant project, now under construction, is an example of how Chevron is 
applying technology in a focused way across the enterprise to enhance performance. The project will 
include the largest single-train, sour crude oil processing plant in the world. Advanced compression 
technology will enable sour gas to be reinjected back into the reservoir at up to 10,000 pounds per 
square inch of pressure. 


| A UNIQUE APPROACH TO TECHNOLOGY | | i] [] 


Chevron has built a technology organization that is unique in the industry. It is the only one that is fully integrated and 
capable of delivering technology and services throughout the energy value chain. It also is partnership-driven. In addi- 
tion to developing proprietary technology, the company has forged alliances to share technical risk, cost and talent 
with external organizations that have complementary capabilities. 


COLIN Beckett 


GENERAL MANAGER | 


GREATER GORGON AREA 
> OFFSHORE WESTERN AUSTRALIA 


PROFESSIONAL: Petroleum Engineer, 
University of Cambridge (England); 
5 years with Chevron. 

PERSONAL: Golf and reading histori- 
cal novels. 


ATHY 
a 
Y 
(/ 
a 


a \ 
THAW 


\ 
f 
4% 


ry 
"@aaaad? 


oA 
“Sees? 


Delivering the Promise of Natural Gas 


Chevron is building an integrated global gas business that brings together the key businesses 
involved in every aspect of natural gas activities — production, liquefaction, shipping, regasification, 
pipelines, marketing and trading, power generation, and gas-to-liquids technology. A major part of 
this effort is the development and marketing of the 10 million-metric-ton-per-year Gorgon liquefied 
natural gas (LNG) project offshore Western Australia. One of our “Big 5" projects, Gorgon is a 
world-class asset with vast natural gas resources. It is well positioned to supply LNG to customers 
in Asia and North America, two of the world’s fastest-growing markets. 


| LNG MILESTONES ACHIEVED | Z [| 


Two LNG milestones were reached in 2005. First, the Gorgon joint-venture partners signed a framework agreement that will 
enable the combined development of Gorgon and nearby natural gas fields as one world-class project. This was followed by 
Chevron signing Heads of Agreement with three major Japanese utilities as foundation customers for sales of Gorgon LNG. 
Agreements were signed with Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd.; Chubu Electric Co., Inc.; and Osaka Gas Co., Ltd. 


OLUMUYIWA acsBooLa 


| COMMERCIALSMANAGER || | 


CHEVRON NIGERIA LTD. 
> NIGERIA 


PROFESSIONAL: Chartered 
. Accountant, University of 
’ Lagos (Nigeria); 26 years cane 
with Chevron. , : 
PERSONAL: Writing and 
making improvements to ~ er 
his community. : A = 


Min 


Ultraclean Fuel for the Future 


Through our joint venture with Sasol, the South Africa-based pioneer of gas-to-liquids (GTL) 
technology, we are pursuing projects to turn natural gas into an ultraclean transportation fuel 
that can improve the performance of conventional diesel engines. In Nigeria, the joint venture is 
providing management as well as operating and technical services for a 34,000-barrel-per-day 
plant under construction at Escravos. The project is a significant step toward realizing a cleaner 
environment for Nigeria, creating employment opportunities and generating revenue for the 
country, and delivering the promise of natural gas. 


| A HOST OF OPPORTUNITIES | | 4 [| 


In 2005, the Escravos GTL project entered a $1.7 billion engineering, procurement and construction phase — a milestone 
for the year. We expect GTL diesel from Nigeria to be fueling cars and trucks in Europe by the end of the decade. In addition 
to Escravos, Sasol Chevron is pursuing other GTL opportunities. In Qatar, the company is evaluating a planned $6 billion 
slate of commercial-scale projects, and it is exploring GTL opportunities in Australia. 


15 


(| 


| Wry | ING m 
“The assets of Che: non at NN are < 
excellent fi ap: eus a bh Jic advat 


Bie Brely oyjegion, Herepn.Thailey 


Drilling for Success 


The Unocal acquisition paired Chevron with a unique independent petroleum company with super- 
major assets. Unocal not only had a portfolio of major upstream assets and prospects, but it also 
had developed some of the most advanced drilling and completion techniques in the industry. The 
combination of the two companies enhances Chevron’s position in the fast-growing and strategic 
Asia-Pacific region. It further strengthens our U.S. Gulf of Mexico profile with Unocal's important 
deepwater discoveries and promising exploration acreage. And it reinforces our standing as a lead- 
ing oil company in the Caspian region. 


1 COMBINING TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION | | ie [| | 


Unocal brings to Chevron a strong record of applying the innovation of its people with leading-edge technologies. Its technical 
expertise and capabilities span the range of oil and gas activities — from advanced 3-D seismic imaging to reservoir surveillance to 
the design of world-class production facilities. Its drilling teams are considered among the best in the industry at working success- 
fully in some of the most difficult environments in the world, including the deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Indonesia and Thailand. 


17 


18 


Human Energy — In Abundance 


It is the people of Chevron who drive our company’s success and deliver the energy that improves the 
quality of life for people everywhere. Here you will find examples of employee ingenuity and commit- 
ment, as well as tributes from those who have benefited from their work. To read more about these 
efforts, please visit our Web site: www.chevron.com/humanenergyinabundance/. 


SINGAPORE 


FRONTIERS OF EFFICIENCY 


“Using a range of ideas and solu- 
tions from personnel throughout the 
Singapore Refinery, along with some 
very powerful analytical tools, we 
are working to achieve significant 
reductions in our energy use — and 
without compromising the refinery’s 
ability to produce product in a profit- 


LuanbDa, ANGOLA 


TRACKING A “Our employees can’t contribute their best if the health 

GLOBAL KILLER of their families and communities is threatened by 
HIV/AIDS. Through treatment, we are improving the 
lives of those with the disease. Our education pro- 
grams help employees understand that HIV/AIDS is a 


: able way." 
preventable disease.” 
NARAYAN kaAMATH 
D R. VA N DA ANDRADE Manager, Planning and Economics (Products) 
Medical Director, Southern Africa Strategic Business Unit Singapore Refinery 


Lacos, NIGERIA SAN RAMON, CALIFORNIA 
SAVING LIVES ACCELERATING 
THROUGH SAFETY NEW FUELS 
“Something needed to be done and “With a fleet of hydrogen-powered 
done fast. We were having too transit buses now operating in the 
many driving incidents. Chevron's San Francisco Bay Area, we are 
Project Preserve safety team tackling the challenges of develop- 
helped us reduce the number ing hydrogen as a practical new 
and severity of accidents in our source of energy.” 


Nigerian operations.” PAE SHtecinoce 


[PI M , Hyd 
TAIYE oriTSEJAFOR eae ha ae 
Manager, District Logistics, Southwest Nigeria 


our Corporate Responsibility Web site in late April 


for other examples of how Chevron employees are 
working to improve quality of life: 


http://www.chevron.com/cr_report/2005/ 


* 
“eee 


LAFAYETTE, LOUISIANA CARACAS, VENEZUELA JAKARTA, INDONESIA 


SAFELY WEATHERING PROVIDING THE CAPTURING RENEWABLE 
STORMS AT SEA POWER OF EDUCATION ENERGY SOURCES 
“The hurricanes in the U.S. Gulf “We are delivering the power of “In Indonesia, we are expanding 
of Mexico caused very little education to Venezuelans who a geothermal power project that 
environmental damage offshore, need it most — disadvantaged not only will provide additional 
despite severe damage to rigs students seeking hope and electrical power but also will 
and platforms. That's because of opportunity.” help Indonesia avoid more than 
advanced technology that can MARGARITA ananco 400,000 tons per year of car- 
shut off subsea wells remotely Manager, Policy, Government and Public Affairs bon dioxide emissions.” 
in the event of an emergency.” EaunamericalUpstiedin 


REX soEPARJADI 


HENRY moutTon Manager, Salak Geothermal 


Supervisor, Supervisory Control and 
Data Acquisition, Gulf of Mexico Business Unit 


BAKERSFIELD, CALIFORNIA 


FIELDS OF THE FUTURE 


CHAMBERSBURG, PENNSYLVANIA 


“By applying advances in technol- 
ogy, data interpretation and heat 


management, we are turning our THE VALUE OF “Chevron helped our schools use energy much more 
older heavy oil fields into the fields CONSERVATION _ &fficiently. The company's recommendations have led 
of the future — fields that are more to a better learning environment for our students and 
modern, more efficient and have a saved us $420,000 a year in energy bills —- money we're 
longer producing life.” putting back into education in the classroom.” 

GARY PIRON DR. EDWIN sponseELLerR 


Manager, Kern River Area Superintendent, Chambersburg Area School District 


19 


OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS 


Chevron ts one of the world's largest 
integrated energy companies. We have 
more than 53,000 employees, and our 
subsidiaries conduct business in approxi- 
mately 180 countries. We are involved 

in virtually every aspect of the energy 
industry — from exploring for, produc- 
ing, transporting and refining crude oil 
and natural gas; to marketing petroleum 
products; to manufacturing and selling 
petrochemical products; generating power; 
and developing future energy resources. 


OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS 


UPSTREAM 


UPSTREAM AT A GLANCE 


were 9 billion barrels of oil-equivalent and for affiliated operations were 2.9 billion barrels. Production 
averaged 2.5 million barrels of oil-equivalent per day, including volumes produced from oil sands and 
production under an operating service agreement. Major producing areas are Angola, Australia, Indonesia, 
Kazakhstan, Nigeria, the Partitioned Neutral Zone, Thailand, the United Kingdom, the United States and 
Venezuela. Major exploration areas are Australia, Brazil, Canada, the Norwegian North Sea, Trinidad and 
Tobago, the U.K. Atlantic Margin, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Venezuela and western Africa. 


Chevron's upstream business explores for and produces crude oil and natural gas. 
We hold strategic positions in the world's largest and most prolific regions, and we 
are typically among the top three producers wherever we operate. During the year, 
we made significant progress in advancing our upstream strategy — to grow the 
profitability of our core areas of operation and to build new legacy positions. 


CORE AREAS The Unocal acquisition greatly enhanced our position in the Asia- 
Pacific region, the Caspian and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, core areas where we already 
had a significant presence. We also continued to make good progress in maximizing 
the value of our base business, primarily by lowering costs while increasing reli- 
ability and production volumes. In the Gulf of Thailand, for example, we improved 
production substantially by returning nonproducing wells to production and by 
removing bottlenecks at several mature fields. Also during the year, we completed 
the $1.7 billion sale of a wholly owned Canadian subsidiary of Unocal. The disposi- 
tion was consistent with our recent divestiture of nonstrategic producing properties 
in western Canada. 


“BIG 5" In 2005, we moved forward with a number of major capital investments, 
including our “Big 5" projects. Initial production began in early 2006 from the 
Benguela Belize-Lobito Tomboco development offshore Angola. Construction began 
on production facilities for the giant Agbami Field offshore Nigeria and the Tahiti 
Field in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. We made progress on the Tengizchevroil expansion 
project in Kazakhstan, and we reached milestones in developing our vast natural gas 
resources in the Greater Gorgon Area offshore Western Australia. 


NATURAL GAS Commercializing our natural gas resources is an important part of 
our upstream strategy. In addition to the Gorgon development, we are a partner in 
the North West Shelf project offshore Western Australia, where a major expansion 
is under way to increase liquefied natural gas (LNG) export capacity by approxi- 
mately one-third. We also are pursuing a number of opportunities to import natural 
gas into North America. We recently increased our capacity at the Sabine Pass LNG 
import terminal, under construction in Louisiana, and we have filed an application 
to build an LNG regasification terminal near our Pascagoula, Mississippi, refinery. 
Through the Sasol Chevron joint venture, we are developing a global business to 
produce and market high-performing, ultraclean transportation fuels using gas-to- 
liquids technology. 


Above, left to right: Steam pipes and expansion joints, McKittrick Field, San Joaquin Valley, 
California. > Agbami Field, deepwater Nigeria. 


At the end of 2005, worldwide net proved crude oil and natural gas reserves for consolidated operations 


| 2005 MOMENTUM | | 


Began initial production from 
developments in Angola, Azerbai- 
jan, Bangladesh, Chad, Indonesia, 
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, and 
the United Kingdom 


Drilled significant discoveries in 
Angola, Cambodia, Nigeria, Trinidad 
and Tobago, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, 
and Venezuela 


Acquired promising new offshore 
acreage in Thailand, the U.K. Atlantic 
Margin, U.K. North Sea, U.S. Gulf of 
Mexico, Vietnam, Western Australia 
and western Venezuela; onshore, the 
successful bidder on a block in Libya 


Signed framework agreement with 
joint-venture partners that will enable 
the combined development of Gorgon 
and nearby natural gas fields as one 
world-class project; signed Heads of 
Agreement with three Japanese utili- 
ties for the sale of liquefied natural 
gas (LNG) from Gorgon 


Moved major projects into engineering 
and design phase - Gorgon LNG project; 
Angola LNG project; Usan Field, deep- 
water Nigeria 


21 


OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS 


DOWNSTREAM AT A GLANCE 


DOWNSTREAM 


In 2005, Chevron processed approximately 2 million barrels of crude oil per day and averaged 
approximately 3.8 million barrels per day of refined products sales worldwide. Our major areas of 
operations are in Asia, on the U.S. West Coast, on the U.S. Gulf Coast extending to Latin America 


and in sub-Saharan Africa. We market under the Chevron, Texaco and Caltex motor fuel brands. 
Products are sold through a network of approximately 26,500 retail stations, including those of 


affiliate companies. 


Chevron's downstream comprises refining, fuels and lubricants marketing, supply 

and trading, and transportation. It is a global and diverse organization with inter- 

ests in 19 fuel refineries and a marketing presence in approximately 175 countries. 
Our downstream strategy is to improve returns by focusing on areas of market and 
supply strength. 


REFINING Our refineries are well positioned to meet demand in some of the 
world’s most significant product growth markets — Asia and North America. They 
have the flexibility to respond to market opportunities when they arise and can run 
significant volumes of lower-quality, lower-priced crude oil to improve profitability. 


During the year, we continued our efforts to lower refinery operating and main- 
tenance costs, primarily by achieving greater energy efficiency and improving 
maintenance procedures. We also are systematically addressing our reliability per- 
formance in order to enhance refinery utilization rates. 


MARKETING We market petroleum products under three of the industry's most 
trusted brands — Chevron, Texaco and Caltex. To offer our customers unsurpassed 
fuels, we have begun a phased introduction of our gasoline additive, Techron, to 
international Texaco and Caltex products. We continue to upgrade our marketing 
portfolio by selling nonstrategic retail sites. Since 2003, we have divested more than 
2,300 such sites, many of which continue to market company-branded fuels. We will 
pursue additional sales and acquisitions based on favorable market opportunities. 


| 2005 MOMENTUM | 


Resumed planned levels of operations at 
the Pascagoula, Mississippi, refinery two 
weeks earlier than estimated following 
Hurricanes Katrina and Rita; employees 
shut down facilities, evacuated, returned 
and resumed operations — all safely and 
with no harm to the environment 


Completed expansion at El Segundo, 
California, refinery to increase pro- 
duction of gasoline and other light 
products; began similar expansion at 
the Pascagoula Refinery 


Began phased introduction of our 
gasoline additive, Techron, to Texaco 
and Caltex products 


Divested nonstrategic fuel marketing 
assets and high-graded retail network 


Approved project at our affiliate refinery 
in Yeosu, South Korea, to add conver- 
sion units to run heavy crude oil and 
improve yield of high-value products 


> Above, left to right: Pembroke Refinery, United Kingdom. > Caltex service station, Singapore. 


> Opposite page, left to right: Solar electric system, U.S. Postal Service facility, Sacramento, California. 
> Hydrogen energy station, Oakland, California. 


22 


OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS 


OTHER 
BUSINESSES 


Chevron, through its 50-50 joint venture Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC, is 
one of the leading manufacturers of petrochemicals. The company has 31 manufac- 
turing facilities in nine countries and markets chemicals products including olefins, 
polyolefins, aromatics and specialty products. 


Chevron Oronite markets more than 500 performance-enhancing products and 
supplies one-fourth of the world's fuel and lubricant additives. Oronite operates two 
major global businesses — lubricating oil additives and fuel additives. 


Chevron's technology companies work together to deploy technologies that enhance 
our core businesses. Chevron Energy Solutions delivers energy-efficiency solutions 
to external and internal clients. Chevron Technology Ventures invests in next-genera- 
tion technology, including hydrogen for transportation needs. Chevron enhances its 
technical capabilities through extensive partnerships with technology companies, 


| HELPING OTHERS IMPROVE | | 
ENERGY EFFICIENCY 


Chevron Energy Solutions (CES) helps 
clients improve their energy efficiency, 
conserve energy and install alternative 
power solutions, such as solar and 
fuel cell generation systems. Some 
examples include: 


Upgrades to U.S. Postal Service facilities 
in Northern California are reducing 
power purchases significantly, resulting 
in yearly savings of more than $2 million 
and lower greenhouse gas emissions. 


For a California college district, CES 
installed solar electric and cogen- 


universities and public agencies throughout the world. 
Global Power Generation develops and markets commercial power projects worldwide. . 


For more information about the businesses of Chevron, visit our Web site: 


www.chevron.com. 


OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE 


At Chevron, our goal is to be 
admired for world-class perform- 
ance in protecting people and the 
environment. To achieve this, we 
follow a disciplined operational 
excellence management system. 
In 2005, an external audit verified 
that our system meets interna- 
tional quality assurance standards, 
including those of the International 
Standardization Organization and 
the Occupational Health and 
Safety Administration System. 


eration projects that are reducing 
electricity purchases by 46 percent, 
or $800,000 a year. 


Electricity generated from restaurant 
kitchen grease and other organic 
matter will reduce energy purchases 
for a water pollution control plant in 
Millbrae, California. 


Our commitment to operational excellence was demonstrated in a number of 
ways throughout the year. Despite the effects of storm damage to our operations, 
we showed improvement in both our safety and environmental performance. 

Safety is our No.1 priority, and 2005 was our safest year ever. The total 
on-the-job injury rate improved 20 percent from 2004, and the rate of injuries 
severe enough to require days away from work improved 30 percent. Our safety 
goal is zero incidents, and we will not be satisfied until we achieve it. 

We have a long-term commitment toward reducing the energy we use in 
our day-to-day operations. By conserving energy, we can produce our prod- 
ucts more cost-effectively for our customers and reduce the impact on the 
environment, including reducing greenhouse gas emissions as well as other air 
emissions. Since we began tracking our energy use in 1992, we have increased 
our energy efficiency by 24 percent. In addition to driving greater energy 
efficiencies through our own organization, we also are helping other businesses 
and institutions conserve energy in their operations (see sidebar above). 


23 


ENERGY TERMS 


Additives Chemicals to control engine deposits 
and improve lubricating performance. 


Barrels of oil-equivalent (BOE) A unit of 
measure to quantify crude oil and natural gas 
amounts using the same basis. Natural gas 
volumes are converted to barrels on the basis 
of energy content. See oil-equivalent gas and 
production. 


Condensate Liquid hydrocarbons produced 
with natural gas, separated by cooling and 
other means. 


Development Drilling, construction and related 
activities following discovery that are neces- 
sary to begin production and transportation of 
crude oil and natural gas. 


Enhanced recovery Techniques used to 
increase or prolong production from crude 
oil and natural gas fields. 


Exploration Searching for crude oil and/or 
natural gas by utilizing geologic and topo- 
graphical studies, geophysical and seismic 
surveys, and drilling of wells. 


Gas-to-liquids (GTL) A process that converts 
natural gas into high-quality transportation 
fuels. 


Greenhouse gases Gases that trap heat in 
the Earth's atmosphere (e.g., carbon dioxide, 
methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, 
perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride). 


Integrated energy company A company 
engaged in all aspects of the energy industry: 
exploring for and producing crude oil and 
natural gas (upstream); refining, marketing 
and transporting crude oil, natural gas and 
refined products (downstream); manufacturing 
and distributing petrochemicals (chemicals); 
and generating power. 


Liquefied natural gas (LNG) Natural gas that 
is liquefied under extremely cold temperatures 
to facilitate storage or transportation in spe- 
cially designed vessels. 


GLOSSARY 


24 


FINANCIAL TERMS 


Cash flow from operating activities Cash 
generated from the company’s businesses, an 
indicator of acompany's ability to pay divi- 
dends and fund capital programs. Excludes 
cash flows related to the company’s financing 
and investing activities. 


Cumulative effect of change in account- 

ing principle The effect on net income in the 
period of change of a retroactive calculation 
and application of a new accounting principle. 


Goodwill The excess of the purchase price 

of an acquired entity over the total fair value 
assigned to assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed. 


Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) Light gases, 
such as butane and propane, that can be main- 
tained as liquids while under pressure. 


Natural gas liquids (NGL) Separated from 
natural gas, these include ethane, propane, 
butane and natural gasoline. 


Oil-equivalent gas (OEG) The volume of natural 
gas needed to generate the equivalent amount 
of heat as a barrel of crude oil. Approximately 
6,000 cubic feet of natural gas is equivalent to 
one barrel of crude oil. 


Oil sands Naturally occurring mixture of 
bitumen (a heavy, viscous form of crude oil), 
water, sand and clay. Using hydroprocessing 
technology, bitumen can be refined to yield 
synthetic crude oil. 


Petrochemicals Derived from petroleum; used 
principally for the manufacture of chemicals, 
plastics and resins, synthetic fibers, deter- 
gents, adhesives, and synthetic motor oils. 


Production Jota/ production refers to all the 
crude oil and natural gas produced froma 
property. Gross production is the company's 
share of total production before deducting 
both royalties paid to landowners and a host 
government's agreed-upon share of produc- 
tion under a production-sharing contract. Net 
production is gross production minus both 
royalties paid to landowners and a host gov- 
ernment’s agreed-upon share of production 
under a production-sharing contract. Oil-equiva- 
lent production is the sum of the barrels of 
liquids and the oil-equivalent barrels of natural 
gas produced. See barrels of oil-equivalent and 
oil-equivalent gas. 


Production-sharing contract A contractual 
agreement between a company and a host 
government whereby the company bears all 
exploration, development and production 
costs in return for an agreed-upon share of 
production. 


Margin The difference between the cost of 
purchasing, producing and/or marketing a 
product and its sales price. 


Net income The primary earnings measure 
for a company, as determined under United 
States Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (GAAP), and detailed on a separate 
financial statement. 


Return on capital employed (ROCE) Ratio 
calculated by dividing net income (adjusted 
for after-tax interest expense and minority 
interest) by the average of total debt, minority 
interest and stockholders’ equity for the year. 


Renewables Energy resources that are not 
depleted when consumed or converted into 
other forms of energy (e.g., solar, geothermal, 
ocean and tide, wind, hydroelectric power, 
biomass fuels, and hydrogen). 


Reserves Crude oil or natural gas contained 
in underground rock formations called res- 
ervoirs. Proved reserves are the estimated 
quantities that geologic and engineering data 
demonstrate can be produced with reasonable 
certainty from known reservoirs under existing 
economic and operating conditions. Estimates 
change as additional information becomes 
available. Oil-equivalent reserves are the sum of 
the liquids reserves and the oil-equivalent gas 
reserves. See barrels of oil-equivalent and oil- 
equivalent gas. 

The rules of the United States Securities 
and Exchange Commission (SEC) permit oil 
and gas companies to disclose in their filings 
with the SEC only proved reserves. Certain 
terms, such as “probable” or “possible” 
reserves, “potentially recoverable” volumes, 
or “resources,” among others, may be used to 
describe certain oil and gas properties in sec- 
tions of this document that are not filed with 
the SEC. We use these other terms, which are 
not approved for use in SEC filings, because 
they are commonly used in the industry, are 
measures considered by management to be 
important in making capital investment and 
operating decisions, and provide some indi- 
cation to our stockholders of the potential 
ultimate recovery of oil and gas from prop- 
erties in which we have an interest. In that 
regard, potentially recoverable volumes are 
those that can be produced using all known 
primary and enhanced recovery methods. 


Synthetic crude oil A marketable and trans- 
portable hydrocarbon liquid, resembling crude 
oil, that is produced by upgrading highly 
viscous to solid hydrocarbons, such as extra- 
heavy crude oil or oil sands. 


Special items Amounts that, because of their 
nature and significance, are identified sepa- 
rately to help explain the changes in net income 
and segment income between periods and to 
help distinguish the underlying trends for the 
company’s core businesses. 


Stockholders’ equity The owners’ share of the 
company - the difference between total assets 
and total liabilities. 


Total stockholder return (TSR) The return 
to stockholders as measured by stock price 
appreciation and reinvested dividends for a 
period of time. 


FINANCIAL TABLE OF CONTENTS 


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


Key Financial Results 26 Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 58 
Income From Continuing Operations by Note 2. Acquisition of Unocal Corporation 60 
Major Operating Area 26 Note 3. Information Relating to the Consolidated 
Business Environment and Outlook 26 Statement of Cash Flows 61 
Operating Developments 29 Note 4. Summarized Financial Data - Chevron U.S.A. Inc. 62 
Results of Operations 31 Note 5. Summarized Financial Data - 
Consolidated Statement of Income 35 Chevron Transport Corporation Ltd. 62 
Selected Operating Data 36 Note 6. Stockholders’ Equity 63 
Information Related to Investment in Dynegy Inc. 37 Note 7. Financial and Derivative Instruments 63 
Liquidity and Capital Resources 37 Note 8. Operating Segments and Geographic Data 64 
Financial Ratios 39 Note 9. Litigation 66 
Guarantees, Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements Note 10. Lease Commitments 66 
and Contractual Obligations, and Note 11. Restructuring and Reorganization Costs 67 
Other Contingencies 40 Note 12. Assets Held for Sale and 
Financial and Derivative Instruments 41 Discontinued Operations 68 
Transactions With Related Parties 42 Note 13. Investments and Advances 68 
Litigation and Other Contingencies 42 Note 14. Properties, Plant and Equipment 70 
Environmental Matters 45 Note 15. Accounting for Buy/Sell Contracts 70 
Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions 46 Note 16. Taxes 71 


New Accounting Standards 49 Note 17. Short-Term Debt 72 
Note 18. Long-Term Debt 73 


Note 19. New Accounting Standards 73 
Note 20. Accounting for Suspended Exploratory Wells 73 
Note 21. Employee Benefit Plans 74 
QUARTERLY RESULTS AND STOCK MARKET DATA 50 Note 22. Stock Options and Other 
REPORT OF MANAGEMENT 51 Share-Based Compensation 78 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED Note 23. Other Contingencies and Commitments 80 
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 52 Note 24. Asset Retirement Obligations 83 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME 53 Note 25. Earnings Per Share 85 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 54 Note 26. Common Stock Split 86 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 55 Note 27. Other Financial Information 86 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 56 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 57 FIVE-YEAR OPERATING SUMMARY 87 

FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY 88 

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND 

GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES 89 


CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


[ OTHER INFORMATION | | 


The company has submitted to the New York Stock Exchange a certificate of the Chief Executive Officer of the company certifying that he is not 
aware of any violation by the company of New York Stock Exchange corporate governance listing standards. The 302 certifications have been filed 
in the Form 10-K. 


CAUTIONARY STATEMENT RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 
FOR THE PURPOSE OF “SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 


This Annual Report of Chevron Corporation contains forward-looking statements relating to Chevron's operations that are based on management's current 
expectations, estimates and projections about the petroleum, chemicals and other energy-related industries. Words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” 
“plans,” “targets,” “projects,” “believes,” “seeks,” "schedules," “estimates” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. 
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our 
control and are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking 
statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Unless legally required, 
Chevron undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 
Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are unknown or unexpected 
problems in the resumption of operations affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and other severe weather in the Gulf of Mexico; crude oil and natural gas prices; 
refining margins and marketing margins; chemicals prices and competitive conditions affecting supply and demand for aromatics, olefins and additives products; 
actions of competitors; the competitiveness of alternate energy sources or product substitutes; technological developments; the results of operations and financial 
condition of equity affiliates; the ability to successfully integrate the operations of Chevron and Unocal Corporation; the inability or failure of the company's 
joint-venture partners to fund their share of operations and development activities; the potential failure to achieve expected net production from existing and 
future crude oil and natural gas development projects; potential delays in the development, construction or start-up of planned projects; the potential disruption 
or interruption of the company's net production or manufacturing facilities due to war, accidents, political events, civil unrest or severe weather; the potential 
liability for remedial actions under existing or future environmental regulations and litigation; significant investment or product changes under existing or future 
environmental regulations and litigation (including, particularly, regulations and litigation dealing with gasoline composition and characteristics); the potential 
liability resulting from pending or future litigation; the company's acquisition or disposition of assets; the effects of changed accounting rules under generally 
accepted accounting principles promulgated by rule-setting bodies. In addition, such statements could be affected by general domestic and international economic 
and political conditions. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this report could also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements. 


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF 


FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


KEY FINANCIAL RESULTS 


Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 2005 2004 2003 
Net Income $ 14,099 |$ 13,328 $ 7,230 
Per Share Amounts: 

Net Income — Basic $ 6.58 $ 6.30 $ 3.48 

— Diluted $ 6.54 $ 6.28 $ 3.48 

Dividends $ 1.75 $ 1.53 $ 1.43 
Sales and Other 

Operating Revenues $ 193,641 | $150,865 $119,575 
Return on: 

Average Capital Employed 21.9% 25.8% 15.7% 

Average Stockholders’ Equity 26.1% 32.7% 21.3% 


INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BY MAJOR 
OPERATING AREA 


Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 


Income From Continuing Operations 
Upstream — Exploration and Production 
United States $ 4,168 | $ 3,868  $ 3,160 
International 7,556 5,622 3,199 
Total Upstream 11,724 9,490 6,359 
Downstream — Refining, Marketing 


and Transportation 


United States 980 1,261 482 
International 1,786 1,989 685 
Total Downstream 2,766 3,250 1,167 
Chemicals 298 314 69 
All Other (689) (20) (213) 


Income From Continuing Operations $14,099 | $ 13,034 $ 7,382 
Income From Discontinued 


Operations — Upstream - 294 44 


Income Before Cumulative Effect of 
Changes in Accounting Principles $14,099 | $ 13,328 $ 7,426 
Cumulative Effect of Changes in 


Accounting Principles - - (196) 
Net Income’ $14,099 $13,328 — $ 7,230 
“Includes Foreign Currency Effects: $ (61) $ (81) $ (404) 


Net income in 2003 included a $196 million charge for 
the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle. 
The primary change related to the company’s adoption of 
Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 143, 
“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” which is 
discussed in Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial State- 
ments. Net income in 2004 included gains of approximately 
$1.2 billion relating to the sale of nonstrategic upstream 
properties. Refer also to the “Results of Operations” section 
beginning on page 31 for a detailed discussion of financial 
results by major operating area for the three years ending 
December 31, 2005. 


26 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND OUTLOOK 

The company’s current and future earnings depend largely on 
the profitability of the upstream (exploration and production) 
and downstream (refining, marketing and transportation) 
business segments. The single biggest factor that affects the 
results of operations for both segments is movement in the 
price of crude oil. In the downstream business, crude oil 

is the largest cost component of refined products. Overall 
earnings trends are typically less affected by results from the 
company’s chemical business and other activities and invest- 
ments. Earnings for the company in any period may also be 
affected by events or transactions that are infrequent and/or 
unusual in nature. 

The company’s long-term competitive position, particu- 
larly given the capital-intensive and commodity-based nature 
of the industry, is closely associated with the company’s 
ability to invest in projects that provide adequate financial 
returns and to manage operating expenses effectively. Creat- 
ing and maintaining an inventory of projects depends on 
many factors, including obtaining rights to explore for crude 
oil and natural gas, developing and producing hydrocarbons 
in promising areas, drilling successfully, bringing long-lead- 
time capital-intensive projects to completion on budget and 
on schedule, and operating mature upstream properties effi- 
ciently and profitably. 

The company also continually evaluates opportunities 
to dispose of assets that are not key to providing long-term 
value, or to acquire assets or operations complementary to its 
asset base to help augment the company’s growth. Asset dis- 
position and restructuring may occur in future periods and 
could result in significant gains or losses. 

In August 2005, the company acquired Unocal Corpora- 
tion (Unocal), an independent oil and gas exploration and 
production company. The aggregate purchase price was $17.3 
billion, which included $7.5 billion cash, approximately 169 
million shares of Chevron common stock valued at $9.6 bil- 
lion, and $0.2 billion for stock options on approximately 5 
million shares and merger-related fees. Refer to Note 2, begin- 
ning on page 60, for a discussion of the Unocal acquisition. 

Comments related to earnings trends for the company’s 
major business areas are as follows: 


Upstream Earnings for the upstream segment are closely 
aligned with industry price levels for crude oil and natural 
gas. Crude oil and natural gas prices are subject to external 
factors over which the company has no control, including 
product demand connected with global economic conditions, 
industry inventory levels, production quotas imposed by the 
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), 
weather-related damage and disruptions, competing fuel 
prices, and regional supply interruptions that may be caused 
by military conflicts, civil unrest or political uncertainty. 
Moreover, any of these factors could also inhibit the compa- 


ny’s production capacity in an affected region. The company 
monitors developments closely in the countries in which it 
operates and holds investments, and attempts to manage risks 
in operating its facilities and business. 

Price levels for capitalized costs and operating expenses 
associated with the efficient production of crude oil and 
natural gas can also be subject to external factors beyond the 
company’s control. External factors include not only the gen- 
eral level of inflation but also prices charged by the industry’s 
product- and service-providers, which can be affected by the 
volatility of the industry’s own supply and demand condi- 
tions for such products and services. The oil and gas industry 
worldwide experienced significant price increases for these 
items during 2005 that are expected to continue into 2006. 
Capitalized costs and operating expenses can also be affected 
by uninsured damages to production facilities caused by 
severe weather or civil unrest. 


CRUDE OIL PRICES 1986 THROUGH 2005 
Dollars per barrel 


60 $60.06 


50 


40 


30 


20 


86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 


The average spot price of West Texas Intermediate, a benchmark crude oil, rose 
24 percent from the fourth quarter of 2004 to the fourth quarter of 2005. 


Industry price levels for crude oil continued an upward 
trend in 2005. The spot price for West Texas Intermediate 
(WTI) crude oil, one of the benchmark crudes, averaged $57 
per barrel in 2005, an increase of approximately $16 per bar- 
rel from the 2004 average price. The WTI spot price for the 
first two months of 2006 averaged about $64 per barrel. The 
rise in crude oil prices reflects, among other things, increas- 
ing demand in growing economies, the heightened level 
of geopolitical uncertainty in some areas of the world and 
supply concerns in other key producing regions, including 
production in the Gulf of Mexico that partially was shut in 
following the hurricanes. 

As was the case in 2004, the differential in prices 
between high-quality, light-sweet crude oils, such as the U.S. 
benchmark WTI, and heavier crudes was unusually wide in 
2005. Chevron produces heavy crude oil in California, Chad, 
Indonesia, the Partitioned Neutral Zone (between Saudi 
Arabia and Kuwait), Venezuela (including volumes produced 
under an operating service agreement) and certain fields in 
Angola, China and the United Kingdom North Sea. The 
price for the heavier crudes has been dampened because of 
ample supply, together with lower relative demand from the 
number of refineries that are able to process this lower-qual- 


ity feedstock into light-product fuels (i.e., motor gasoline, jet 
fuel, aviation gasoline and diesel fuel). The demand for heavy 
crude was further reduced in late 2005 as refining capacity 
along the U.S. Gulf Coast was interrupted by hurricanes. 
The price for higher-quality light oil, on the other hand, has 
remained high, as the demand for light products, which can 
be manufactured by any refinery from light oil, has been 
robust worldwide. 

Natural gas prices, particularly in the United States, also 
trended upward in 2005. For the full year, U.S. benchmark 
prices at Henry Hub averaged about $8 per thousand cubic 
feet (MCF), compared with about $6 in 2004. Henry Hub 
spot prices peaked in December 2005 above $14, as supplies 
early in the winter heating season were reduced by produc- 
tion shut in following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. By 
mid-February 2006, prices had moved downward to about 
$8 per MCF. Fluctuations in the price for natural gas in the 
United States are closely associated with the volumes pro- 
duced in North America and the inventory in underground 
storage to meet customer demand. 

In contrast to the United States, certain other regions of 
the world in which the company operates have different sup- 
ply, demand and regulatory circumstances, typically resulting 
in significantly lower average sales prices for the company’s 
production of natural gas. (Refer to page 36 for the compa- 
ny’s average natural gas prices for the U.S. and international 
regions.) Additionally, excess supply conditions that exist 
in certain parts of the world cannot easily serve to mitigate 
the relatively high-price conditions in the United States and 
other markets because of lack of infrastructure and the dif- 
ficulties in transporting natural gas. To help address this 
regional imbalance between supply and demand for natural 


NET CRUDE OIL & 
NATURAL GAS 

LIQUIDS PRODUCTION* 
Thousands of barrels per day 


U.S. NATURAL GAS PRICES 
& NET PRODUCTION 


3000 8.00 2500 
$7.43 
2400 f 2000 
} 6.00 
1,669 
| - 
1800 y 1,634 1500 | | ; 
‘ J 4.00 es Cf 
1200 W 1000 
2.00 
600 500 
0 0.00 ° 
01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 


a United States 
a International 


= Prices in Dollars per Thousand 
Cubic Feet (right scale) 


= Production in Millions of Net liquids production declined 


Cubic Feet per Day (left scale) 


Average prices increased 35 percent 
during 2005. Production was down 
13 percent mainly due to the effects 
of storms in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, 
asset sales and natural field declines 
partially offset by the addition of 
Unocal production. 


about 2 percent in 2005, mainly 
due to the effects of storms, asset 
sales and natural field declines 
partially offset by the addition of 
Unocal production. 


*Includes equity in affiliates 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 27 


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF 
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


gas, Chevron is planning increased investments in long-term 
projects in areas of excess supply to install infrastructure 

to produce and liquefy natural gas for transport by tanker, 
along with investments and commitments to regasify the 
product in markets where demand is strong and supplies are 
not as plentiful. Due to the significance of the overall invest- 
ment in these long-term projects, the natural gas sales prices 
in the areas of excess supply (before the natural gas is trans- 
ferred to a company-owned or third-party processing facility) 
are expected to remain well below sales prices for natural gas 
that is produced much nearer to areas of high demand and 
that can be transported in existing natural gas pipeline net- 
works (as in the United States). 

Longer-term trends in earnings for the upstream 
segment are also a function of other factors besides price fluc- 
tuations, including changes in the company’s crude oil and 
natural gas production levels and the company’s ability to 
find or acquire and efficiently produce crude oil and natural 
gas reserves. Most of the company’s overall capital investment 
is in its upstream businesses, particularly outside the United 
States. Investments in upstream projects generally are made 
well in advance of the start of the associated crude oil and 
natural gas production. 

Chevron’s worldwide net oil-equivalent production of 
approximately 2.5 million barrels per day in 2005, including 
volumes produced from oil sands and production under an 
operating service agreement, remained essentially unchanged 
from 2004. However, production in the fourth quarter 2005 
was nearly 2.7 million barrels per day, reflecting the benefit 
of volumes associated with the properties acquired from 
Unocal, the effect of which was partially offset by production 
shut in as a result of the hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico. 
Prior to the hurricanes in August and September 2005, 
oil-equivalent production in the Gulf of Mexico was approxi- 
mately 300,000 barrels per day. In 2006, production is 
projected to average approximately 200,000 barrels per day, 
as normal field declines are expected to exceed the produc- 
tion being restored from wells that were shut in or damaged 
from the hurricanes and the production that will result from 
the drilling of new wells in the area. Approximately 20,000 
net oil-equivalent barrels of daily production are not expected 
to be sufficiently economic to restore. 

The company estimates that oil-equivalent production 
in 2006 will average between 2.7 million and 2.8 million 
barrels per day. However, future estimates are subject to 
many uncertainties, including quotas that may be imposed 
by OPEC, the price effect on production volumes calculated 
under cost-recovery and variable-royalty provisions of certain 
contracts, severe weather, and the potential for local civil 
unrest and changing geopolitics that could cause production 
disruptions. Approximately 26 percent of the company’s net 
oil-equivalent production in 2005, including net barrels from 
oil sands and production under an operating service agree- 


28 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


ment, occurred in the OPEC-member countries of Indonesia, 
Nigeria and Venezuela and in the Partitioned Neutral Zone 
between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. Although the company’s 
production level during 2005 was not constrained in these 
areas by OPEC quotas, future production could be affected 
by OPEC-imposed limitations. Future production levels also 
are affected by the size and number of economic investment 
opportunities and, for new large-scale projects, the time lag 
between initial exploration and the beginning of production. 
Refer to pages 29 through 30 for discussion of the company’s 
major upstream projects. 

In certain onshore areas of Nigeria, approximately 45,000 
barrels per day of the company’s net production capacity was 
shut in during 2003 because of civil unrest and damage to 
production facilities. The company has adopted a phased plan 
to restore these operations, and about one-third of the vol- 
umes had been returned to production as of early 2006. 

Refer to pages 31 through 33 for additional discussion 
of the company’s upstream operations. 


Downstream Refining, marketing and transportation 
earnings are closely tied to global and regional supply and 
demand for refined products and the associated effects on 
industry refining and marketing margins. The company’s 
core marketing areas are the West Coast of North America, 
the U.S. Gulf Coast, Latin America, Asia and sub-Saharan 
Africa. In 2005, industry refining margins improved over 
the prior year, reflecting strong demand for refined products; 
however, marketing margins, which are highly influenced 
by regional market conditions, were mixed. Many regions 
experienced stronger marketing margins, but these margins 
were generally lower in the United States and Europe, as 
retail prices did not keep pace with rising crude oil and spot 
product prices. Industry margins in the future may be vola- 
tile, due primarily to changes in the price of crude oil used 
for refinery feedstock, disruptions at refineries resulting from 
maintenance programs and mishaps and levels of inventory 
and demand for refined products. 

Other influences on the company’s profitability in this 
segment include the operating efficiencies and expenses of the 
refinery network, including the effects of any downtime due 
to planned and unplanned maintenance, refinery upgrade 
projects and operating incidents. The level of operating 
expenses for the downstream segment can also be affected 
by the volatility of charter expenses for the company’s ship- 
ping operations, which are driven by the industry’s demand 
for crude oil and product tankers. Other factors affecting 
the company’s downstream profitability that are beyond the 
company’s control include the general level of inflation and 
energy costs to operate the refinery network. 


Refer to pages 33 through 34 for additional discussion of 
the company’s downstream operations. 


Chemicals Earnings in the petrochemicals business are 
closely tied to global chemical demand, industry inventory 
levels and plant capacity utilization. Additionally, feedstock 
and fuel costs, which tend to follow crude oil and natural gas 
price movements, influence earnings in this segment. 

Refer to page 34 for additional discussion of chemical 
earnings for both the company’s Oronite subsidiary and the 
50 percent-owned Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC. 


OPERATING DEVELOPMENTS 
Key operating developments and other events during 2005 
and early 2006 included: 


Upstream 

Worldwide Proved Reserves Asa result of the acquisition 

of Unocal in August 2005, the company increased its net 
oil-equivalent proved reserves by approximately 1.5 bil- 
lion barrels. Significant 
unproved volumes of oil 


NET PROVED RESERVES 


Billions of BOE* and gas were also added 


to the company’s resource 
base. (Refer to pages 94 
through 99 for a detailed 


discussion of proved 


12.0 


He) 


° TITS 
l 
l 


6.0 
; i 
0.0 


01 02 03 04 O05 


reserve changes for 2005 
and Note 2 beginning on 
page 60 for a discussion of 
the Unocal acquisition.) 
North America In 
September 2005, the 
company sold Northrock 
Resources Limited, a 


= Other International wholly owned Canadian 


Asia-Pacific subsidiary of Unocal, for 
Bee $1.7 billion. The disposi- 
= Africa . i ‘: 
= United States tion was consistent with 
CBuilE ce Chevron’s divestiture in 


Net proved reserves for consolidated 
companies climbed 10 percent in 
2005, primarily due to the Unocal 
acquisition. 


2004 of its conventional 
crude oil and natural 
gas business in western 
*Barrels of oil-equivalent Canada, enabling the 
company’s continued 
focus on the profitable growth of production of crude oil and 
natural gas in strategically important core areas of operation. 

In late 2005, the company began construction of the 
floating production facility to be installed in the Tahiti 
Field, in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Tahiti is anticipated 
to have a maximum total daily production of 125,000 bar- 
rels per day of crude oil and 70 million cubic feet of natural 
gas. Chevron is the operator and holds a 58 percent working 
interest in the project that is being developed in phases and 
expected to come onto production in 2008. 

In the same period, the decision was made to proceed 
with the development of the Blind Faith Field, also in the 
deepwater Gulf of Mexico. First production is expected in 


2008, with initial total daily output estimated at 30,000 
barrels of crude oil and 30 million cubic feet of natural gas. 
Chevron is the operator and holds a 62.5 percent working 
interest in the project. 

In late 2005, the company drilled deepwater crude oil 
discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico at the 60 percent-owned 
and operated Big Foot prospect in the Walker Ridge Block 
29 and the 25 percent-owned, nonoperated Knotty Head 
prospect located in Green Canyon Block 512. Additional 
appraisal activity continued into 2006 at both locations. 

Angola In early 2006, first oil was produced from the 
31 percent-interest deepwater Belize Field in Block 14, off- 
shore Angola. The Benguela, Belize, Lobito and Tomboco 
fields form a project that is being developed in two phases. 
The maximum total production from both phases of the 
project is anticipated to reach 200,000 barrels of crude oil 
per day in 2008. 

Australia In mid-2005, the company won exploration 
rights to four deepwater blocks in the northern Carnarvon 
Basin offshore Western Australia. In early 2006, the com- 
pany was awarded rights to another block in the Carnarvon 
Basin. The blocks are located in an area of significant natural 
gas potential and near the Chevron-led Gorgon Project. 
Chevron holds a 50 percent operated interest in the blocks. 

Kazakhstan In late 2005, the company’s 50 percent- 
owned Tengizchevroil (TCO) affiliate awarded commercial 
contracts to enable increased crude-oil exports through a 
southern route across the Caspian Sea. The southern route 
will provide additional export capacity for TCO’s increased 
production until the Caspian Pipeline Consortium pipeline 
is expanded. The additional crude oil production at TCO 
will result from major facilities-expansion projects being 
constructed at a total cost of approximately $5.5 billion. By 
the third quarter 2007, TCO’s crude production capacity is 
projected to increase from the current capacity of 300,000 
barrels per day to between 460,000 and 550,000. 

Nigeria In early 2005, a construction contract was 
awarded for the $1.1 billion floating production, storage and 
offloading (FPSO) vessel to be used at the Agbami Field. The 
construction contract was a key milestone in the development 
of the 68 percent-owned Agbami Field, which is scheduled to 
come online in 2008 with an estimated maximum total daily 
production of 250,000 barrels of crude oil. 

Nigeria — Sto Tomé e Principe Joint Development Zone 
(JDZ) In early 2005, the company signed a production-sharing 
contract for Block 1 in the Nigeria — Sao Tomé e Principe JDZ. 
Chevron will be the operator and has a 51 percent interest in 
the block. Drilling of the first exploration well was under way 
in late-February 2006. 

Venezuela In June 2005, the company discovered natural 
gas in Block 3 of Plataforma Deltana, offshore Venezuela. The 
site is in the proximity of the Loran natural gas field in Block 
2 and provides sufficient resources for a detailed evaluation of 
Venezuela’s first liquefied natural gas (LNG) train. 

In the third quarter 2005, the company was awarded an 
exploration license for the Cardon III Block, offshore western 
Venezuela. The block is in a region with natural gas potential 
to the north of the Maracaibo producing area. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 29 


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF 
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


In December 2005, Chevron signed a transition agree- 
ment with Petrdleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PDVSA), the 
Venezuelan state-owned petroleum company, to convert 
contracts for the Boscan and LL-652 operating service 
agreements into an Empresa Mixta (EM). The EM is a joint- 
stock contractual structure with PDVSA as the majority 
shareholder. Negotiation of the ownership and format of the 
final EM structure will be conducted during 2006. Possible 
financial implications of the EM structure are uncertain, but 
are not expected to have a material effect on the company’s 
consolidated financial position or liquidity. 

Global Natural Gas Projects In Angola, the company 
awarded contracts in April 2005 for front-end engineering 
and design studies for a multibillion-dollar onshore LNG 
project located in northern Angola. This project will be 
designed to help reduce flaring of natural gas and represents a 
major step toward the commercialization of some of Angola’s 
vast natural gas resources. The company has a 36 percent 
ownership interest in the Angola LNG project and will co- 
lead development with the Angolan government's national 
oil company. Construction is expected to begin in 2007. 

In April 2005, the company reached an agreement 
with joint-venture participants in the Greater Gorgon Area, 
offshore Western Australia that will enable the combined 
development of natural gas at Gorgon and nearby gas fields 
as one project. The company is a significant holder of gas 
resources in the area and will have an approximate 50 percent 
ownership interest across most of the Greater Gorgon Area. 

In June 2005, the company announced the decision to 
move the Australian Greater Gorgon gas development proj- 
ect into the front-end engineering and design phase for a 
two-train (10 million metric tons per year) LNG facility and 
a potential domestic gas plant on Barrow Island, targeting 
initial production by 2010. Chevron is the operator and has a 
50 percent ownership interest in the licenses for the Greater 
Gorgon Area. 

In the fourth quarter 2005, the company signed a Heads 
of Agreement (HOA) for first sale of LNG from the Gorgon 
Project into Japan, the world’s largest LNG market. The 
preliminary agreement was signed by Chevron Australia Pty 
Ltd with Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd., a major Japanese utility com- 
pany, for the purchase of 1.2 million metric tons per year of 
Gorgon LNG over 25 years. Two additional HOAs were later 
signed by Chevron Australia Pty Ltd with Chubu Electric 
Co., Inc. and Osaka Gas Co., Ltd., both companies from 
Japan. Each preliminary agreement was for the purchase of 
1.5 million metric tons per year of Gorgon LNG over 25 
years commencing in 2010 and 2011, respectively. 

The company and its partners in the North West Shelf 
(NWS) venture agreed in mid-2005 to expand the project’s 
onshore LNG facilities in Western Australia. Chevron holds 
a one-sixth interest in the NWS venture. The $1.5 billion 
project includes adding a fifth train that will increase LNG 


30 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


export capacity by more than 4 million metric tons per year 
to approximately 16 million metric tons per year, with start- 
up expected in 2008. In December 2005, the NWS joint 
venture participants approved development of the Angel 
natural gas field, which will provide the natural gas supply 
for the Train 5 expansion. 

In Nigeria, the company awarded a $1.7 billion con- 
tract in April 2005 for the engineering, procurement and 
construction of the Escravos gas-to-liquids project. Plant 
construction began in 2005 including major equipment 
fabrication and site preparation. 

In the third quarter 2005, installation began on a 
350-mile main offshore segment of the West African Gas 
Pipeline that will provide natural gas to markets in Ghana, 
Togo and Benin by connecting to an existing onshore 
pipeline in Nigeria. The pipeline will have a capacity of 
approximately 475 million cubic feet per day and will help in 
the reduction of the flaring of natural gas in the company’s 
areas of operation. 

In Russia, OAO Gazprom has included Chevron on a 
list of companies that could continue further commercial 
and technical discussions concerning the development and 
related commercial activities of the Shtokmanovskoye Field. 
Discussions were under way in early 2006, but the timing of 
Gazprom’s selection of the company or companies that will 
participate in the field development was uncertain. Shtok- 
manovskoye is a very large natural gas field offshore Russia 
in the Barents Sea. OAO Gazprom is Russia’s largest natural 
gas producer. 

In the United States, Chevron completed the acquisition 
of the remaining 40 percent interest of Bridgeline Holdings, 
L.P. in August 2005. Bridgeline manages and operates more 
than 1,000 miles of pipeline and 12 billion cubic feet of 
natural gas storage capacity in southern Louisiana. 

In the third quarter 2005, the company filed an appli- 
cation with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to 
own, construct and operate a natural gas import terminal 
at the Casotte Landing site adjacent to Chevron’s refinery 
in Pascagoula, Mississippi. The terminal will be designed to 
initially process 1.3 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day 
from imported LNG. 

In the fourth quarter 2005, the company committed to 
pipeline and additional LNG terminal capacity in the Sabine 
Pass area of Louisiana. The first commitment was for 1 bil- 
lion cubic feet per day of pipeline capacity in a new pipeline 
and additional interconnect capacity to an existing pipeline. 
The company also exercised its option to increase capacity at 
a Sabine Pass LNG terminal from 700 million to 1 billion 
cubic feet per day. 


Downstream 

United States The company initiated a project to increase 
the capacity of the Pascagoula, Mississippi, refinery’s fluid 
catalytic cracking unit by approximately 25 percent, from 

a current capacity of 63,000 barrels per day. This project is 
designed to enable the refinery to increase its production of 
gasoline and other light products and is expected to be com- 
pleted by late 2006. 

South Korea The company’s 50 percent-owned GS 
Caltex affiliate announced a major upgrade project at its 
650,000-barrel-per-day Yeosu refining complex. At an esti- 
mated total cost of $1.5 billion, the facilities will increase 
the yield of high-value refined products and reduce feedstock 
costs through the processing of heavy crude oil. Start-up is 
expected by the end of 2007. 


Chemicals 

Qatar The company’s 50 percent-owned affiliate, Chevron 
Phillips Chemical Company LLC (CPChem), has obtained 
approvals and completed the financial closing for the Q-Chem 
II complex to be located next to the existing Q-Chem I com- 
plex in Mesaieed, Qatar. The Q-Chem II complex will 
include a 350,000-metric-ton-per-year polyethylene plant 
and a 345,000-metric-ton-per-year normal alpha olefins 
plant. The project also includes a separate joint venture to 
develop a 1,300,000-metric-ton-per-year ethylene cracker at 
Qatar’s Ras Laffan Industrial City. CPChem and its partners 
expect to start-up the cracker and derivatives plants in late 
2008. CPChem owns a 49 percent interest of Q-Chem II. 


Other 

Common Stock Dividends and Stock Repurchase Program \n 
April 2005, the company increased its quarterly common 
stock dividend by 12.5 percent to $0.45 per share. The com- 
pany completed an authorized $5 billion of stock buybacks 
in November 2005 under a repurchase program initiated in 
April 2004. Upon completion of this program, the company 
then authorized the acquisition of up to $5 billion of addi- 
tional shares over a period of up to three years. Purchases 
under this authorization totaled $481 million through mid- 
February 2006. 


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
Major Operating Areas The following section presents the 
results of operations for the company’s business segments 
— upstream, downstream and chemicals — as well as for “all 
other,” which includes mining operations of coal and other 
minerals, power generation businesses, and the various com- 
panies and departments that are managed at the corporate 
level. Income is also presented for the U.S. and international 
geographic areas of the upstream and downstream business 
segments. (Refer to Note 8, beginning on page 64, for a dis- 
cussion of the company’s “reportable segments,” as defined 
in FAS 131, “Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and 
Related Information.”) 

To aid in the understanding of changes in income 
between periods, the discussion, when applicable, is in two 
parts — first on underlying trends, and second on special- 


item gains and charges. The special items are identified 
separately because of their nature and amount and also to 
help discern the underlying trends for the company’s busi- 
nesses. This section should also be read in conjunction with 
the discussion in “Business Environment and Outlook” on 
pages 26 through 29. 


U.S. Upstream — Exploration and Production 


Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 
Income From Continuing Operations $ 4,168 $ 3,868 $ 3,160 
Income From Discontinued Operations - 70 25 
Cumulative Effect of Accounting 

Change - - (350) 
Total Income* $ 4,168 $ 3,938 $ 2,833 


*Includes Special-Item Gains (Charges): 


Asset Dispositions 


Continuing Operations $ - $ 316 $ 77 
Discontinued Operations - 50 - 
Litigation Provisions - (55) - 
Asset Impairments/Write-offs - - (103) 
Restructuring and Reorganizations - - (38) 


Total $ - $ 311 $ (64) 


U.S. upstream income of nearly $4.2 billion in 2005 
increased $230 million. The amount in 2004 included net 
special-item benefits (discussed below) of more than $300 
million. Higher prices for crude oil and natural gas in 2005 
and earnings from the former Unocal operations contributed 
approximately $2 billion to the increase between periods. 
Approximately 90 percent of this amount related to the 
effects of higher prices on heritage-Chevron production. 
These benefits were partially offset by the adverse effects 
of lower production (discussed below), higher operating 
expenses and higher depreciation expense associated with 
heritage-Chevron properties. 

Income of $3.9 billion in 2004 was $1.1 billion higher 
than the $2.8 billion recorded in 2003. Of this increase, 
$725 million resulted from the difference in the effect on 
earnings in the respective periods from special items and the 
cumulative-effect charges recorded in 2003 for the imple- 
mentation of a new accounting standard. (Refer to Note 24, 
beginning on page 83, for a discussion of FAS 143, “Account- 
ing for Asset Retirement Obligations.”) The balance of the 
increase from 2003 to 2004 was composed of about a $1 bil- 
lion benefit from higher prices for crude oil and natural gas 
that was partially offset by the effect of lower production. 

The company’s average realization for crude oil and natu- 
ral gas liquids in 2005 was $46.97 per barrel, compared with 
$34.12 in 2004 and $26.66 in 2003. The average natural gas 
realization was $7.43 per thousand cubic feet in 2005, com- 
pared with $5.51 and $5.01 in 2004 and 2003, respectively. 

Net oil-equivalent production in 2005 averaged 727,000 
barrels per day, down 11 percent from 2004 and 22 percent 
from 2003. The decline between 2004 and 2005 was the 
result of the effects of hurricanes, property sales and normal 
field declines, which were partially offset by the benefit of 
five months of production in 2005 from properties acquired 
from Unocal. The lower production between 2003 and 2004 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 31 


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF 


FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


was associated with property sales, the effects of storms and 
normal field declines. 

The net liquids component of oil-equivalent production 
for 2005 averaged 455,000 barrels per day, a decline of 10 
percent from 2004 and 19 percent from 2003. Absent the 
effects of the Unocal volumes in 2005, property sales and 
storms, net liquids production in 2005 declined 6 percent 
and 11 percent from 2004 and 2003, respectively. 

Net natural gas production averaged 1.6 billion cubic 
feet per day in 2005, down 13 percent and 27 percent from 
2004 and 2003, respectively. Excluding the Unocal volumes 
in 2005, the effects of property sales and shut-in produc- 
tion related to storms, net natural gas production in 2005 
declined 10 percent from 2004 and 20 percent from 2003. 

Refer to the “Selected Operating Data” table, on page 36, 
for the three-year comparative production volumes in the 
United States. 

No special items were recorded in 2005. Special items 
in 2004 included gains of $366 million from property sales, 
partially offset by charges of $55 million due to an adverse 
litigation matter. Net special charges of $64 million in 2003 
were composed of charges of $103 million for asset impair- 
ments, associated mainly with the write-down of assets in 
anticipation of sale; charges of $38 million for restructuring 
and reorganization, mainly for employee severance costs; and 
gains of $77 million from property sales. 


WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION & 
PRODUCTION EARNINGS* 
Billions of dollars 


EXPLORATION EXPENSES 


Millions of dollars 


1200 Wes) 


Sollee 
| | 
10.0 
900 r) 
$743 
= 75 | 
600 = | 
es 
| | 
Ss 8G 5.0 
a | “d | 
300 
2.5 Cos | 
0 0.0 | | 
01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 


= United States 
= International 


m= United States 
= International 


Exploration expenses declined 
after the October 2001 merger 
with Texaco, reflecting, in part, 
the high-grading of the combined 
exploration portfolio. 


Earnings increased in 2005 on 
higher prices for crude oil and 
natural gas. 


*Before the cumulative effect of 
changes in accounting principles 
but including discontinued 
operations 


32 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


International Upstream — Exploration and Production 


Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 
Income From Continuing Operations! $ 7,556 $ 5,622 $ 3,199 
Income From Discontinued Operations - 224 21 
Cumulative Effect of Accounting 
Change = = 145 
Total Income? $ 7,556 $ 5,846 $ 3,365 
‘Includes Foreign Currency Effects: $14 $ (129) $ (319) 
2 Includes Special-Item Gains (Charges): 
Asset Dispositions 
Continuing Operations $ - $ 644 $ 32 
Discontinued Operations - 207 - 
Asset Impairments/Write-ofts - - (30) 
Restructuring and Reorganizations - - (22) 
Tax Adjustments - - 118 
Total $ - $ 851 $ 98 


International upstream income of more than $7.5 billion 
in 2005 increased $1.7 billion from $5.8 billion in 2004. 
Higher prices for crude oil and natural gas in 2005 and 
earnings from the former Unocal operations increased earn- 
ings approximately $2.9 billion between periods. About 80 
percent of this benefit arose from the effect of higher prices 
on heritage-Chevron production. Partially offsetting these 
benefits were higher expenses between periods for heritage- 
Chevron operations for certain income-tax items, including 
the absence of a $200 million benefit in 2004 relating to 
changes in income tax laws. The change between years also 
reflected the impact of $851 million of special-item gains in 
2004, while no special items were recorded in 2005. Foreign 
currency losses in 2004 were $129 million. Gains of $14 mil- 
lion were recorded in 2005. 

Income of $5.8 billion in 2004 was nearly $2.5 bil- 
lion higher than earnings recorded in 2003. Approximately 
$900 million of the increase was the difference between the 
effects in each period from special items (discussed below) 
and foreign currency losses. Approximately $1.1 billion of 
the increase was associated with higher prices for crude oil 
and natural gas. Another $400 million resulted from lower 
income-tax expense between periods, including a benefit of 
about $200 million in 2004 as a result of changes in income 
tax laws. Partially offsetting these effects were higher trans- 
portation costs in 2006 of about $200 million. The balance 
of the change between periods was associated with a gain in 
2003 from the implementation of a new accounting standard. 
(Refer to Note 24, beginning on page 83, for a discussion of 
FAS 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.”) 

Net oil-equivalent production of 1.8 million barrels per 
day in 2005, including 143,000 net barrels per day from oil 
sands in Canada and production under an operating service 
agreement in Venezuela, increased about 6 percent from 
2004 and 5 percent from 2003. Absent the net effect of 
increased volumes in 2005 from five months of production 
from the former Unocal operations, the effect of property 


sales and the effect of higher prices on cost-recovery and 
variable-royalty provisions of certain contracts, oil-equivalent 
production in 2005 was essentially the same as 2004 and 2003. 

The net liquids component of oil-equivalent production 
was 1.4 million barrels per day in 2005, unchanged from 
2004 and 2003. Excluding the effects of Unocal production, 
property sales and the effect of higher prices on cost-recovery 
and variable-royalty volumes, 2005 net liquids production 
was essentially the same as 2004 and decreased 1 percent 
from 2003. 

Net natural gas production of 2.6 billion cubic feet per 
day in 2005 was up 25 percent and 26 percent from 2004 
and 2003, respectively. Excluding the effect of production 
from the Unocal properties, production increased 2 percent 
and 3 percent from 2004 and 2003, respectively. 

Refer to the “Selected Operating Data” table, on page 
36, for the three-year comparative of international produc- 
tion volumes. 

No special items were recorded in 2005. Special-item 
gains in 2004 included $585 million from the sale of produc- 
ing properties in western Canada and $266 million from 
the sale of other nonstrategic assets, including the company’s 
operations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and 
a Canadian natural-gas processing business. In 2003, net 
special-item gains of $98 million included benefits of $150 
million related to income taxes and property sales, partially 
offset by asset impairments and charges for employee termi- 
nation costs. 


U.S. Downstream — Refining, Marketing and Transportation 


Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 
Income* $ 980 $1,261 $ 482 
*Includes Special-Item Gains (Charges): 
Asset Dispositions $ $ - $ 37 
Environmental Remediation Provisions - - (132) 
Restructuring and Reorganizations - - (28) 
Total $ = $ = $ (123) 


U.S. downstream earnings of nearly $1 billion in 2005 
decreased about $300 million from 2004 and were up $500 
million from 2003. Results in 2003 included net special- 
item charges (discussed below) of $123 million. Average 
refined-product margins in 2005 were higher than in 2004, 
and margins in 2004 were significantly higher than in 2003. 
However, the effects of increased downtime at refineries and 
other facilities and higher fuel costs dampened earnings in 
2005. A portion of the downtime in 2005 was associated 
with hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico. As a result of the 
storms, the company’s refinery in Pascagoula, Mississippi, 
was shut down for more than a month, and the company’s 
marketing and pipeline operations along the Gulf Coast were 
also disrupted for an extended period. 

Sales volumes of refined products in 2005 were approxi- 
mately 1.5 million barrels per day, or about 2 percent lower 
than in 2004. Branded gasoline sales volumes of approxi- 
mately 600,000 barrels per day increased about 4 percent 
from the 2004 period. In 2004, refined-product sales volumes 
increased about 5 percent from 2003, primarily due to higher 


sales of gasoline, diesel fuel and fuel oil. Refer to the “Selected 
Operating Data” table, on page 36, for the three-year com- 
parative refined-product sales volumes in the United States. 

In 2003, net special-item charges of $123 million 
included $132 million for environmental remediation and 
$28 million for employee severance costs associated with the 
global downstream restructuring and reorganization. These 
charges were partially offset by net gains of $37 million from 
asset sales. 


U.S. GASOLINE & 
OTHER REFINED 
PRODUCTS SALES* 
Thousands of barrels per day 


WORLDWIDE REFINING, 
MARKETING & 
TRANSPORTATION EARNINGS 
Billions of dollars 


1800 3.5 
Aeon 1,473 3.0 $2.8 
2.5 i 
1200 
2.0 | 
900 1.5 
1.0 i 
600 
0.5 - 
300 | 
0.0 = 
0 -0.5 : 
01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 
a Gasoline a United States 


a Jet Fuel 


= Gas Oils & Kerosene ‘ s 

‘ a Downstream earnings declined 
a Residual Fuel Oil due to lower international margins 
m Other for refined products and U.S. 
refinery downtime. 


a International 


Refined products sales volumes 
declined about 2 percent from 
2004, with lower sales of fuel 
oils and other products. 


*Includes equity in affiliates 


International Downstream — Refining, Marketing and Transportation 


Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 
Income!” $1,786 | $1,989 $ 685 
' Includes Foreign Currency Effects: $ (24) $7 $ (141) 
? Includes Special-Item Charges: 
Asset Dispositions $ -| $ = $ (24) 
Asset Impairments/Write-offs - - (123) 
Restructuring and Reorganizations - - (42) 
Total $ -| $ - $ (189) 


The international downstream includes the company’s 
consolidated refining and marketing businesses, non-U.S. ship- 
ping operations, non-U.S. supply and trading activities, and 
equity earnings of affiliates, primarily in the Asia-Pacific region. 

Income of nearly $1.8 billion in 2005 decreased 10 
percent from $2 billion in 2004 but was up about $1.1 bil- 
lion from 2003. The decrease from the 2004 period was 
due mainly to lower sales volumes, higher costs for fuel and 
transportation, expenses associated with an explosion and fire 
at a 40 percent-owned, nonoperated terminal in the United 
Kingdom, and tax adjustments in various countries. These 
items more than offset an improvement in average refined- 
product margins between periods. The $1.3 billion increase 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 33 


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF 


FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


in income from 2003 
to 2004 reflected sig- 
nificantly higher average 


INTERNATIONAL GASOLINE & 
OTHER REFINED PRODUCTS 
SALES* 


Thousands of barrels per day ei 
refined-product margins 


2800 in most of the company’s 


rere operating areas and higher 


ane earnings from interna- 
tional shipping operations. 
Earnings in 2003 also 

Co included special-item 
charges (discussed below) 


and foreign currency 
losses that totaled more 
than $300 million. 


0 . . 
Total international 


01 02 O03 O04 O5 
refined products sales 


= Gasoline 

a Jet Fuel 

a Gas Oils & Kerosene 
a Residual Fuel Oil 

a Other 


volumes were 2.3 million 
barrels per day in 2005, 
about 4 percent lower than 


2004. The sales decline 


i ts sal I : : 
Refined products sales volumes was primarily the result 


decreased about 4 percent from 
BOK of lower gasoline trading 
*Includes equity in affiliates activity and lower fuel-oil 
sales. Refined product 
sales volume of 2.4 million 
barrels per day in 2004 was about 4 percent higher than 2.3 
million in 2003. Refer to the “Selected Operating Data” table, 
on page 36, for the three-year comparative refined-product 
sales volumes in the international areas. 

The special-item charges of $189 million in 2003 
included the write-down of the Batangas Refinery in the 
Philippines in advance of its conversion to a product terminal 
facility, employee severance costs associated with the global 
downstream restructuring and reorganization, the recogni- 
tion of the impairment of certain assets in anticipation of 
their sale and the company’s share of losses from an asset sale 
and asset impairment by an equity affiliate. 


34 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


Chemicals 

Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 
Segment Income* $ 298 $ 314 $ 69 
“Includes Foreign Currency Effects: $ - $ (3) $13 


The chemicals seg- WORLDWIDE CHEMICALS 


EARNINGS* 
Millions of dollars 


ment includes the company’s 
Oronite subsidiary and 


the company’s 50 percent 350 
share of its equity invest- 300 ete 
ment in Chevron Phillips 250 
Chemical Company LLC 200 
(CPChem). In 2005, results 150 
for the company’s Oronite ia 
subsidiary were down due 2 | | 
(0) 


to significantly higher costs 
for feedstocks and adverse 
effects from the shut-down 


of operations in the U.S. 
01 02 03 04 O05 


Gulf Coast due to hurri- 

canes. Earnings in 2005 for Chemicals earnings declined about 
: 5 percent from 2004 mainly due 

CPChem WEES higher than to the effects of storms. 


2004 on improved margins *Includes equity in affiliates 

for commodity chemicals. 

Results for both businesses in 

2005 were dampened by the effects of the U.S. hurricanes. 
Significantly lower earnings in 2003 reflected weak demand 
for commodity chemicals and industry oversupply conditions 


in the period. 


All Other 
Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 
Charges Before Cumulative Effect of 

Changes in Accounting Principles $ (689) $ (20) $ (213) 
Cumulative Effect of Accounting 

Changes - - 9 
Net Charges)? $ (689) $ (20) $ (204) 
1 Includes Foreign Currency Effects: $ (51) $ 44 $43 
? Includes Special-Item Gains (Charges): 

Dynegy-Related $ = $ = $ 325 

Asset Impairments/Write-offs - - (84) 

Restructuring and Reorganizations = = (16) 
Total $ = $ - $ 225 


All Other consists of the company’s interest in Dynegy, 
mining operations of coal and other minerals, power gen- 
eration businesses, worldwide cash management and debt 
financing activities, corporate administrative functions, 
insurance operations, real estate activities and technology 
companies. 

The net charges of $689 million in 2005 increased sig- 
nificantly from $20 million in 2004. Approximately $400 
million of the change related to larger benefits in 2004 from 


corporate-level tax adjustments. Higher charges in 2005 were 
associated with environmental remediation of properties that 
had been sold or idled and ongoing Unocal corporate-level 
activities. Interest expense also was higher in 2005 due to 

an increase in interest rates and the debt assumed with the 
Unocal acquisition. 

The improvement between 2003 and 2004 was primarily 
associated with the company’s investment in Dynegy, includ- 
ing gains from the redemption of certain Dynegy securities, 
higher interest income, lower interest expense and the favor- 
able corporate-level tax adjustments. 

Net special-item gains in 2003 included a Dynegy- 
related net benefit of $325 million, which was composed of 
a gain of $365 million from the exchange of the company’s 
investment in Dynegy securities that was partially offset by 
a $40 million charge for Chevron’s share of an asset impair- 
ment by Dynegy. Other special-item charges were for asset 
write-downs of $84 million, primarily in Chevron’s gasifica- 
tion business, and employee severance costs of $16 million. 


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME 

Comparative amounts for certain income statement catego- 
ries are shown below. Amounts associated with special items 
in the comparative periods are also indicated to assist in the 
explanation of the period-to-period changes. Besides the 
information in this section, separately disclosed on the face 
of the Consolidated Statement of Income are a gain from the 
exchange of Dynegy securities and the cumulative effect of 
changes in accounting principles. These matters are discussed 
elsewhere in Management’s Discussion and Analysis and in 
Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on page 
86. Refer to the Results of Operations section, beginning of 
page 31, for additional information relating to special-item 
gains and charges. 


Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 


Sales and other operating revenues $193,641 | $150,865 $ 119,575 


Sales and other operating revenues in 2005 increased 
over 2004 and 2003 due primarily to higher prices for crude 
oil, natural gas and refined products worldwide. The amount 
in 2005 also included revenues for five months from former 
Unocal operations. 


Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 


$ 3,731 $ 2,582 $ 1,029 


Income from equity affiliates 


Memo: Special-item gains, before tax $ - $ - $ 179 


Improved results for Tengizchevroil and Hamaca (Ven- 
ezuela) accounted for nearly three-fourths of the increased 
income from equity affiliates in 2005. Profits in 2005 also 
increased at the company’s CPChem and Dynegy affili- 
ates. The improvement in 2004 from 2003 was the result of 
higher earnings from the company’s downstream affiliates in 
the Asia-Pacific area, Tengizchevroil, CPChem, Dynegy and 
the Caspian Pipeline Consortium. Refer to Note 13, begin- 


ning on page 68, for a discussion of Chevron’s investment in 
affiliated companies. 


Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 


Other income $ 828 $ 1,853 $ 308 


Memo: Special-item gains, before tax $  -  $ 1,281 $ 217 
Other income in 2005 included no special-item gains or 
losses; however, net special-item gains relating to upstream 
property sales were nearly $1.3 billion in 2004 and more 
than $200 million in 2003. The increase from 2003 through 
2005 was otherwise partly due to higher interest income in 
each period — $400 million in 2005, $200 million in 2004 
and $120 million in 2003 — on higher average interest rates 
and balances of cash and marketable securities. Foreign cur- 
rency losses were $60 million in both 2005 and 2004 and 


about $200 million in 2003. 
Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 


$127,968 | $94,419 $ 71,310 


Purchased crude oil and products 


Crude oil and product purchases in 2005 increased 
approximately 35 percent from 2004, due mainly to higher 
prices for crude oil, natural gas and refined products as well 
as to the inclusion in 2005 of Unocal-related amounts for 
five months. Crude oil and product purchase costs increased 
32 percent in 2004 from the prior year as a result of higher 
prices and increased purchased volumes of crude oil and 
products. 


Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 


Operating, selling, general and 
$17,019 | $14,389 $12,940 


administrative expenses 


Memo: Special-item charges, before tax $ - §$ 85 $ 475 


Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses 
in 2005 increased 18 percent from a year earlier. Higher 
amounts in 2005 included former-Unocal expenses for five 
months, and for heritage-Chevron operations, higher costs 
for labor and transportation, uninsured costs associated with 
storms in the Gulf of Mexico, asset write-offs, repair and 
maintenance services, fuel costs for plant operations and a 
number of corporate items that individually were not sig- 
nificant. Total expenses increased from 2003 to 2004 due 
mainly to costs for chartering crude oil tankers and other 
transportation expenses. 


Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 


Exploration expense $ 743 $ 697 $ 570 


Exploration expenses in 2005 increased mainly due to 
the inclusion of Unocal amounts for five months. In 2004, 
amounts were higher than in 2003 for international opera- 
tions, primarily for seismic costs and expenses associated with 
evaluating the feasibility of different project alternatives. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 35 


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF 


FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 


Depreciation, depletion and 
$ 5,913 | $ 4,935 $ 5,326 


Memo: Special-item charges, before tax $ - $ - $ 286 


amortization 


Depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses in 
2005 increased mainly as a result of five months of deprecia- 
tion and depletion expense for the former Unocal assets and 
higher depreciation rates for certain heritage-Chevron crude 
oil and natural gas producing fields worldwide. Between 
2003 and 2004, expenses did not change materially, after 
consideration of the effects of special-item charges for asset 
impairments in 2003. 


Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 


$ 482 $ 406 $ 474 


Interest and debt expense 


Interest and debt expense in 2005 increased mainly due 
to the inclusion of debt assumed with the Unocal acquisition 
and higher average interest rates for commercial paper bor- 
rowings. The decline between 2003 and 2004 reflected lower 
average debt balances. 


Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 


$ 20,782 | $19,818 $17,901 


Taxes other than on income 


Taxes other than on income in 2005 increased as a result 
of higher international taxes assessed on product values, 
higher duty rates in the areas of the company’s European 
downstream operations and higher U.S. federal excise taxes 
on jet fuel resulting from a change in tax law that became 
effective in 2005. The increase in 2004 from 2003 primarily 
reflected the weakening U.S. dollar on foreign currency- 
denominated duties in the company’s European downstream 


operations. 

Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 
Income tax expense $11,098 | $7,517 $5,294 
Memo: Special-item charges (benefits) $ - $ 291 $ (312) 


Effective income tax rates were 44 percent in 2005, 37 
percent in 2004 and 43 percent in 2003, after excluding the 
effect of net special items. Rates were higher in 2005 com- 
pared with the prior year due to the absence of benefits in 
2004 from changes in the income tax laws for certain inter- 
national operations and an increase in earnings in countries 
with higher tax rates. As compared with the effective tax 
rate in 2003, the effective tax rate in 2004 benefited from 
changes in the income tax laws for certain international 
operations, a change in the mix of international upstream 
earnings occurring in countries with different tax rates and 
favorable corporate consolidated tax effects. Refer also to the 
discussion of income taxes in Note 16 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, beginning on page 71. 


36 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


SELECTED OPERATING DATA" 


2005 2004 2003 
U.S. Upstream 
Net Crude Oil and Natural Gas 
Liquids Production (MBPD)? 455 505 562 
Net Natural Gas Production (MMCEPD)?4_ 1,634 1,873 2,228 
Net Oil-Equivalent Production (MBOEPD)? 727 817 933 
Sales of Natural Gas (MMCFPD) 5,449 4,518 4,304 
Sales of Natural Gas Liquids (MBPD) 151 177 194 
Revenues From Net Production 
Liquids ($/Bbl) $46.97 | $ 34.12 $ 26.66 
Natural Gas ($/MCF) $ 7.43 $ 5.51 $ 5.01 
International Upstream 
Net Crude and Natural Gas 
Liquids Production (MBPD)? 1,214 1,205 1,246 
Net Natural Gas Production (MMCEPD)>* 2,599 2,085 2,064 
Net Oil-Equivalent 
Production (MBOEPD)>> 1,790 1,692 1,704 
Sales Natural Gas (MMCFPD) 2,289 1,885 1,951 
Sales Natural Gas Liquids (MBPD) 108 105 107 
Revenues From Liftings 
Liquids ($/Bbl) $47.59 $ 34.17 $ 26.79 
Natural Gas ($/MCF) $ 3.19 $ 2.68 $ 2.64 
U.S. and International Upstream 
Net Oil-Equivalent Production Including 
Other Produced Volumes (MBOEPD)*° 
United States 727 817 933 
International 1,790 1,692 1,704 
Total 2,517 2,509 2,637 
U.S. Downstream — Refining, 
Marketing and Transportation 
Gasoline Sales (MBPD)° 709 701 669 
Other Refined Products Sales (MBPD) 764 805 767 
Total (MBPD)’ 1,473 1,506 1,436 
Refinery Input (MBPD)§ 845 914 951 
International Downstream — Refining, 
Marketing and Transportation 
Gasoline Sales (MBPD)° 669 717 643 
Other Refined Products Sales (MBPD) 1,626 1,685 1,659 
Total (MBPD)’? 2,295 2,402 2,302 
Refinery Input (MBPD) 1,038 1,044 1,040 


| Includes equity in affiliates. 


2 MBPD = Thousands of barrels per day; MMCFPD = Millions of cubic feet per day; 
MBOEPD = Thousands of barrels of oil equivalents per day; Bbl = Barrel; MCF = 
Thousands of cubic feet. Oil-equivalent gas (OEG) conversion ratio is 6,000 cubic feet of 


gas = | barrel of oil. 

ncludes net production from August 1, 2005, 

related to former Unocal properties. 

ncludes natural gas consumed on lease (MMCFPD): 


3 


United States 48 50 65 
nternational 332 293 268 
5 Includes other produced volumes (MBPD): 
Athabasca Oil Sands — Net 32 27 15 
Boscan Operating Service Agreement 111 113 99 
143 140 114 
© Includes branded and unbranded gasoline 
7 Includes volumes for buy/sell contracts (MBPD): 
United States 82 84 90 
nternational 129 96 104 
8 The company sold its interest in the El Paso 
Refinery in August 2003. 
° Includes sales of affiliates (MBPD): 540 536 525 


INFORMATION RELATED TO INVESTMENT IN 

DYNEGY INC. 

At year-end 2005, Chevron owned an approximate 24 
percent equity interest in the common stock of Dynegy, a 
provider of electricity to markets and customers throughout 
the United States. The company also held an investment in 
Dynegy preferred stock. 

Investment in Dynegy Common Stock At December 31, 
2005, the carrying value of the company’s investment in 
Dynegy common stock was approximately $300 million. 
This amount was about $200 million below the company’s 
proportionate interest in Dynegy’s underlying net assets. 
This difference is primarily the result of write-downs of the 
investment in 2002 for declines in the market value of the 
common shares below the company’s carrying value that were 
deemed to be other than temporary. The difference had been 
assigned to the extent practicable to specific Dynegy assets 
and liabilities, based upon the company’s analysis of the vari- 
ous factors associated with the decline in value of the Dynegy 
shares. The company’s equity share of Dynegy’s reported 
earnings is adjusted quarterly when appropriate to recognize 
a portion of the difference between these allocated values 
and Dynegy’s historical book values. The market value of the 
company’s investment in Dynegy’s common stock at the end 
of 2005 was approximately $470 million. 

Investments in Dynegy Preferred Stock At the end of 
2005, the company held $400 million face value of Dynegy 
Series C Convertible Preferred Stock with a stated maturity 
of 2033. The stock is accounted for at its fair value, which 
was estimated to be $360 million at year-end 2005. Tempo- 
rary changes in the estimated fair value of the preferred stock 
are reported in “Other Comprehensive Income.” However, if 
in any future period a decline in fair value is deemed to be 
other than temporary, a charge against income in the period 
would be recorded. Dividends received from the preferred 
stock are recorded to income in the period received. 


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities Total balances 
were $11.1 billion and $10.7 billion at December 31, 2005 
and 2004, respectively. Cash provided by operating activities 
in 2005 was $20.1 billion, compared with $14.7 billion in 
2004 and $12.3 billion in 2003. 

The 2005 increase in cash provided by operating 
activities mainly reflected higher earnings in the upstream 
segment, including earnings from the former-Unocal 
operations. Cash provided by operating activities was net of 
contributions to employee pension plans of $1.0 billion, $1.6 
billion and $1.4 billion in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 
Cash provided by investing activities included proceeds from 
asset sales of $2.7 billion in 2005, $3.7 billion in 2004 and 
$1.1 billion in 2003. 

Cash provided by operating activities and asset sales dur- 
ing 2005 was sufficient to fund the company’s $8.7 billion 
capital and exploratory program, pay $3.8 billion of divi- 
dends to stockholders, repay approximately $970 million in 
long-term debt, and repurchase $3 billion of common stock. 
Partial consideration for the acquisition of Unocal in August 


2005 also included $7.5 billion in cash. Unocal balances of 
cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at the acqui- 
sition date totaled $1.6 billion. 

Dividends The company paid dividends of approximately 
$3.8 billion in 2005, $3.2 billion in 2004 and $3 billion in 
2003. In April 2005, the company increased its quarterly com- 
mon stock dividend by 12.5 percent to 45 cents per share. 

Debt, capital lease and minority interest obligations Total 
debt and capital lease balances were $12.9 billion at Decem- 
ber 31, 2005, up from $11.3 billion at year-end 2004. The 
2005 year-end balance included approximately $2.2 billion 
of debt and capital lease obligations assumed with the acqui- 
sition of Unocal. The company also had minority interest 
obligations of $200 million, up from $172 million at Decem- 
ber 31, 2004. 

The company’s debt and capital lease obligations due 
within one year, consisting primarily of commercial paper 
and the current portion of long-term debt, totaled $5.6 bil- 
lion at December 31, 2005, unchanged from December 31, 
2004. Of these amounts, $4.9 billion and $4.7 billion were 
reclassified to long-term at the end of each period, respec- 
tively. At year-end 2005, settlement of these obligations was 
not expected to require the use of working capital in 2006, 
as the company had the intent and the ability, as evidenced 
by committed credit facilities, to refinance them on a long- 
term basis. The company’s practice has been to continually 
refinance its commercial paper, maintaining levels it believes 
appropriate and economic. 


CASH PROVIDED BY 
OPERATING ACTIVITIES 


Billions of dollars 


TOTAL INTEREST EXPENSE & 
TOTAL DEBT AT YEAR-END 
Billions of dollars 


25.0 20.0 les 


ania $20.1 


$12.9 


0.9 

\ 
N 0.6 
0.3 
0.0 


01 02 03 04 O05 


15.0 


10.0 

10.0 
5.0 

5.0 
0.0 0.0 


01 02 03 04 O05 


Operating cash flow increased 
37 percent mainly due to higher 
earnings in the upstream segment. 


= Total Interest Expense 
(right scale) 
= Total Debt (left scale) 


Interest expense rose mainly due to 
debt assumptions from the Unocal 
acquisition. 


At year-end 2005, the company had $4.9 billion in 
committed credit facilities with various major banks, which 
permitted the refinancing of short-term obligations on a 
long-term basis. These facilities support commercial paper 
borrowings and also can be used for general corporate 
purposes. The company’s practice has been to continually 
replace expiring commitments with new commitments on 
substantially the same terms, maintaining levels management 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 37 


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF 
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


believes appropriate. Any borrowings under the facilities 
would be unsecured indebtedness at interest rates based on 
the London Interbank Offered Rate or an average of base 
lending rates published by specified banks and on terms 
reflecting the company’s strong credit rating. No borrow- 
ings were outstanding under these facilities at December 31, 
2005. In addition, the company has three existing effective 
“shelf” registration statements on file with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission that together would permit additional 
registered debt offerings up to an aggregate $3.8 billion of debt 
securities. Following the acquisition of Unocal, the company 
withdrew Unocal’s “shelf” registration statements. 

In October 2005, the company fully redeemed the 
Unocal subsidiary Pure Resources’ 7.125 percent Senior 
Notes due 2011 for $395 million. The company’s $150 mil- 
lion of Texaco Brasil zero coupon notes were paid at maturity 
in November 2005. In December 2005, the company 
exercised a par-call redemption of $200 million in Texaco 
Capital Inc. 5.7 percent Notes due 2008. 

In February 2006, the company retired Union Oil bonds 
at maturity for approximately $185 million. 

Texaco Capital LLC, a wholly owned finance subsid- 
iary, issued Deferred Preferred Shares Series C (Series C) in 
December 1995. In February 2005, the company redeemed 
the Series C shares and paid accumulated dividends of 
approximately $140 million. 

In January 2005, the company contributed $98 million 
to its Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) to permit the 
ESOP to make a $144 million debt service payment, which 
included a principal payment of $113 million. 

In the second quarter 2004, Chevron entered into $1 bil- 
lion of interest rate fixed-to-floating swap transactions, in which 
the company receives a fixed interest rate and pays a floating 
rate, based on the notional principal amounts. Under the terms 
of the swap agreements, of which $250 million and $750 mil- 
lion will terminate in September 2007 and February 2008, 
respectively, the net cash settlement will be based on the differ- 
ence between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts. 

Chevron’s senior debt is rated AA by Standard and 
Poor’s Corporation and Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service. 
The company’s senior debt of Texaco Capital Inc. is rated 
Aa3, and Union Oil Company of California bonds are rated 


Capital and Exploratory Expenditures 


Al by Moody’s. These companies are wholly owned subsid- 
iaries of Chevron. The company’s U.S. commercial paper is 
rated A-1+ by Standard and Poor’s and P-1 by Moody’s, and 
the company’s Canadian commercial paper is rated R-1 (mid- 
dle) by Dominion Bond Rating Service. All of these ratings 
denote high-quality investment-grade securities. 

The company’s future debt level is dependent primarily 
on results of operations, the capital-spending program and 
cash that may be generated from asset dispositions. Further 
reductions from debt balances at December 31, 2005, are 
dependent upon many factors, including management's con- 
tinuous assessment of debt as an appropriate component of 
the company’s overall capital structure. The company believes 
it has substantial borrowing capacity to meet unanticipated 
cash requirements, and during periods of low prices for crude 
oil and natural gas and narrow margins for refined products 
and commodity chemicals, the company believes that it has 
the flexibility to increase borrowings and/or modify capital- 
spending plans to continue paying the common stock dividend 
and maintain the company’s high-quality debt ratings. 

Common Stock Repurchase Program \n connection with a 
$5 billion stock repurchase program initiated in April 2004, 
the company acquired 92.1 million of its common shares 
for $5 billion through November 2005. During 2005, about 
49.8 million of common shares were repurchased under this 
program for a total cost of $2.9 billion. 

In December 2005, the company authorized the acquisi- 
tion of up to an additional $5 billion of its common shares 
from time to time at prevailing prices, as permitted by securi- 
ties laws and other legal requirements and subject to market 
conditions and other factors. The program is for a period 
of up to three years and may be discontinued at any time. 
Under this program, the company acquired approximately 
1.7 million shares in the open market for $100 million dur- 
ing December 2005. Purchases through mid-February 2006 
increased the total shares acquired to 8.3 million at a cost of 
$481 million. 

Capital and exploratory expenditures Excluding the $17.3 
billion acquisition of Unocal Corporation, total reported 
expenditures for 2005 were $11.1 billion, including $1.7 
billion for the company’s share of affiliates’ expenditures, 
which did not require cash outlays by the company. In 2004 


2005 2004 2003 
Millions of dollars U:S. Int'l. Total US. Int'l. Total US. Int'l. Total 
Upstream — Exploration and Production $2,450 $5,939 $ 8,389 | $1,820 $4,501 $6,321 | $1,641 $4,034 $ 5,675 
Downstream — Refining, Marketing and 
Transportation 818 1,332 2,150 497 832 1,329 403 697 1,100 
Chemicals 108 43 151 123 27 150 173 24 197 
All Other 329 44 373 512 3 515 371 20 391 
Total $3,705 $7,358 $11,063 | $2,952 $5,363 $8,315 | $2,588 $4,775 $ 7,363 
Total, Excluding Equity in Affiliates $3,522 $5,860 $ 9,382 | $2,729 $4,024 $6,753 | $2,306 $3,920 $ 6,226 


38 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


and 2003, expenditures were $8.3 billion and $7.4 billion, 
respectively, including the company’s share of affiliates’ 
expenditures of $1.6 billion and $1.1 billion in the corre- 
sponding periods. 

Of the $11.1 billion in expenditures for 2005, about 
three-fourths, or $8.4 billion, related to upstream activities. 
Approximately the same percentage was also expended for 

upstream operations in 
2004 and 2003. Interna- 


EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION - etal Galcenes ccd 
CAPITAL & EXPLORATORY Ona) Ups ted ma ccounte 
EXPENDITURES* 


Billions of dollars 


for about 70 percent of 
the worldwide upstream 


10.0 investment in each of 
the years, reflecting the 
company’s continuing 


a focus on opportunities 
Ez that are available outside 
a8 | the United States. 
In 2006, the com- 
as pany estimates capital and 
exploratory expenditures 
a will be 33 percent higher 


at $14.8 billion, includ- 
ing spending by affiliates. 
About three-fourths, or 
$11.3 billion, is again for 


01 02 03 04 05 


= United States 
a International 


Exploration and production projects 
accounted for 76 percent of total 
capital and exploratory expenditures 
in 2005. 


exploration and produc- 
tion activities, with $8 
billion of that amount 
outside the United States. 
Spending is primarily 


*Includes equity in affiliates 


targeted for exploratory prospects in the deepwater Gulf of 
Mexico and western Africa and major development projects 
in Angola, Nigeria, Kazakhstan and the deepwater Gulf of 
Mexico. Included in the upstream expenditures is about $1 
billion to develop the company’s international natural gas 
resource base. 

Worldwide downstream spending in 2006 is estimated 
at $2.8 billion, with about $1.9 billion for refining and 
marketing and $900 million for supply and transportation 
projects, including pipelines to support expanded upstream 
production. Approximately two-thirds of the total projected 
spending is outside the United States. 

Investments in chemicals businesses in 2006 are bud- 
geted at $250 million. Estimates for energy technology, 
information technology and facilities, real estate activities, 
power-related businesses, and other businesses total approxi- 
mately $460 million. 


Pension Obligations In 2005, the company’s pension 
plan contributions totaled approximately $1 billion, includ- 
ing nearly $200 million to the Unocal plans. Approximately 
$800 million of the total was contributed to U.S. plans. In 
2006, the company estimates contributions will be $500 mil- 
lion. Actual amounts are dependent upon plan-investment 
results, changes in pension obligations, regulatory environ- 
ments and other economic factors. Additional funding may 
be required if investment returns are insufficient to offset 
increases in plan obligations. Refer also to the discussion of 
pension accounting in “Critical Accounting Estimates and 
Assumptions,” beginning on page 46. 


FINANCIAL RATIOS 


Financial Ratios 
At December 31 
2005 2004 2003 
Current Ratio 14 1.5 1.2 
Interest Coverage Ratio 47.5 47.6 24.3 
Total Debt/Total Debt-Plus-Equity 17.0% 19.9% 25.8% 


Current Ratio — current assets divided by current liabili- 
ties. The current ratio in all periods was adversely affected 
by the fact that Chevron’s inventories are valued on a LIFO 
basis. At year-end 2005, the book value of inventory was 
lower than replacement costs, based on average acquisition 
costs during the year, by approximately $4.8 billion. 

Interest Coverage Ratio — income before income tax 
expense, plus interest and debt expense and amortization of 
capitalized interest, divided by before-tax interest costs. The 
company’s interest coverage ratio was essentially unchanged 
between 2004 and 2005. The interest coverage ratio was 
higher in 2004 compared with 2003, primarily due to higher 
before-tax income and lower average debt balances. 

Debt Ratio — total debt 


as a percentage of total debt TOTAL DEBT TO TOTAL 


DEBT-PLUS-EQUITY RATIO 
Billions of dollars/Percent 


plus equity. Although total 
debt was higher at the end of 


2005 than a year earlier, the 80.0 $75.5 50 
40 


30 


debt ratio declined as a result 


of higher stockholders’ equity nae 
balances for retained earn- 
ings and the capital stock 

7 ° . 40.0 
that was issued in connection 
e ae ee 20 
with the Unocal acquisition. 
The decline in the debt ratio 20.0 
between 2003 and 2004 was 


primarily due to lower debt 


0.0 
levels and higher retained 01 02 03 04 05 


earnings. 


a Debt (left scale) 

mu Stockholders’ Equity (left scale) 

a Ratio (right scale) 

Chevron's ratio of total debt to total 
debt-plus-equity fell to 17 percent at 
year-end as the company's stock- 
holders’ equity climbed. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 39 


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF 


FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


GUARANTEES, OF F-BALANCE-SHEET 
ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS, 
AND OTHER CONTINGENCIES 


Direct or Indirect Guarantees* 


Millions of dollars 


Commitment Expiration by Period 


2007- After 
Total 2006 2009 2010 2010 


Guarantees of non- 
consolidated affiliates or 


joint venture obligations $985 $454 $426 $35 $70 
Guarantees of obligations 

of third parties 294 113 136 8 37 
Guarantees of Equilon debt 

and leases 193 24 55 19 95 


*The amounts exclude indemnifications of contingencies associated with the sale of the 
company’s interest in Equilon and Motiva in 2002, as discussed in the “Indemnifications” 
section on pages 40 through 41. 


At December 31, 2005, the company and its subsidiaries 
provided guarantees, either directly or indirectly, of $985 
million in guarantees for notes and other contractual obli- 
gations of affiliated companies and $294 million for third 
parties as described by major category below. There are no 
material amounts being carried as liabilities for the compa- 
ny’s obligations under these guarantees. 

Of the $985 million in guarantees provided to affili- 
ates, $806 million relate to borrowings for capital projects 
or general corporate purposes. These guarantees were under- 
taken to achieve lower interest rates and generally cover the 
construction period of the capital projects. Included in these 
amounts are Unocal-related guarantees of $230 million asso- 
ciated with a construction completion guarantee for the debt 
financing of Unocal’s equity interest in the Baku-Tbilisi- 
Ceyhan (BTC) crude oil pipeline project. Approximately 
95 percent of the amounts guaranteed will expire between 
2006 and 2010 with the remaining guarantees expiring by 
the end of 2015. Under the terms of the guarantees, the 
company would be required to fulfill the guarantee should 
an affiliate be in default of its loan terms, generally for the 
full amounts disclosed. There are no recourse provisions, 
and no assets are held as collateral for these guarantees. The 
remaining balance of $179 million represents obligations in 
connection with pricing of power-purchase agreements for 
certain of the company’s cogeneration affiliates. Under the 
terms of these guarantees, the company may be required to 
make payments under certain conditions if the affiliates do 
not perform under the agreements. There are no recourse 
provisions to third parties, and no assets are held as collateral 
for these pricing guarantees. 

Guarantees of $294 million have been provided to third 
parties, including guarantees of approximately $150 mil- 
lion related to construction loans to host governments in the 
company’s international upstream operations. The remaining 
guarantees of $144 million were provided principally as con- 


4O CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


ditions of sale of the company’s interest in certain operations, 
to provide a source of liquidity to the guaranteed parties 

and in connection with company marketing programs. No 
amounts of the company’s obligations under these guaran- 
tees are recorded as liabilities. About 85 percent of the total 
amounts guaranteed will expire in 2010, with the remainder 
expiring after 2010. The company would be required to per- 
form under the terms of the guarantees should an entity be 
in default of its loan or contract terms, generally for the full 
amounts disclosed. Approximately $85 million of the guar- 
antees have recourse provisions, which enable the company to 
recover any payments made under the terms of the guaran- 
tees from securities held over the guaranteed parties’ assets. 

At December 31, 2005, Chevron also had outstand- 
ing guarantees for about $190 million of Equilon debt and 
leases. Following the February 2002 disposition of its interest 
in Equilon, the company received an indemnification from 
Shell Oil Company (Shell) for any claims arising from the 
guarantees. The company has not recorded a liability for these 
guarantees. Approximately 50 percent of the amounts guar- 
anteed will expire within the 2006 through 2010 period, with 
the guarantees of the remaining amounts expiring by 2019. 

Indemnifications The company provided certain indem- 
nities of contingent liabilities of Equilon and Motiva to Shell 
and Saudi Refining, Inc. in connection with the February 
2002 sale of the company’s interests in those investments. 
The indemnities cover certain contingent liabilities. The 
company would be required to perform should the indemni- 
fied liabilities become actual losses. Should that occur, the 
company could be required to make future payments up to 
$300 million. Through the end of 2005, the company paid 
approximately $38 million under these indemnities. The 
company expects to receive additional requests for indemnifi- 
cation payments in the future. 

The company has also provided indemnities relating to 
contingent environmental liabilities related to assets origi- 
nally contributed by Texaco to the Equilon and Motiva joint 
ventures and environmental conditions that existed prior to 
the formation of Equilon and Motiva or that occurred dur- 
ing the periods of Texaco’s ownership interests in the joint 
ventures. In general, the environmental conditions or events 
that are subject to these indemnities must have arisen prior 
to December 2001. Claims relating to Equilon indemni- 
ties must be asserted as early as February 2007, or no later 
than February 2009, and claims relating to Motiva must be 
asserted no later than February 2012. Under the terms of the 
indemnities, there is no maximum limit on the amount of 
potential future payments. The company has not recorded 
any liabilities for possible claims under these indemnities. 
The company posts no assets as collateral and has made no 
payments under the indemnities. 

The amounts payable for the indemnities described above 
are to be net of amounts recovered from insurance carriers 


and others and net of liabilities recorded by Equilon or Motiva 
prior to September 30, 2001, for any applicable incident. 

In the acquisition of Unocal, the company assumed 
certain indemnities relating to contingent environmental 
liabilities associated with assets of Unocal’s 76 Products Com- 
pany business that existed prior to its sale in 1997. Under the 
terms of these indemnities, there is no maximum limit on the 
amount of potential future payments by the company; how- 
ever, the purchaser shares certain costs under this indemnity 
up to an aggregate cap of $200 million. Claims relating to 
these indemnities must be asserted by April 2022. Through 
the end of 2005, approximately $113 million had been applied 
to the cap, which includes payments made by either Unocal or 
Chevron totaling $80 million. 

Securitization The company securitizes certain retail and 
trade accounts receivable in its downstream business through 
the use of qualifying special purpose entities (SPEs). At 
December 31, 2005, approximately $1.2 billion, representing 
about 7 percent of Chevron’s total current accounts receivable 
balance, were securitized. Chevron’s total estimated financial 
exposure under these securitizations at December 31, 2005, 
was approximately $60 million. These arrangements have 
the effect of accelerating Chevron’s collection of the securi- 
tized amounts. In the event of the SPEs experiencing major 
defaults in the collection of receivables, Chevron believes that 
it would have no loss exposure connected with third-party 
investments in these securitizations. 

Long-Term Unconditional Purchase Obligations and 
Commitments, Throughput Agreements and Take-or-Pay 
Agreements The company and its subsidiaries have certain 
other contingent liabilities relating to long-term uncondi- 
tional purchase obligations and commitments, throughput 
agreements, and take-or-pay agreements, some of which 
relate to supplier’s financing arrangements. The agreements 
typically provide goods and services, such as pipeline and 
storage capacity, utilities, and petroleum products, to be used 
or sold in the ordinary course of the company’s business. 
The aggregate approximate amounts of required payments 
under these various commitments are: 2006 — $2.2 billion; 
2007— $1.9 billion; 2008 — $1.8 billion; 2009 — $1.8 billion; 
2010 — $0.5 billion; 2011 and after — $3.8 billion. Total pay- 
ments under the agreements were approximately $2.1 billion 
in 2005, $1.6 billion in 2004, and $1.4 billion in 2003. The 
most significant take-or-pay agreement calls for the company 
to purchase approximately 55,000 barrels per day of refined 
products from an equity affiliate refiner in Thailand. This 
purchase agreement is in conjunction with the financing of 
a refinery owned by the affiliate and expires in 2009. The 
future estimated commitments under this contract are: 2006 
— $1.3 billion; 2007 — $1.3 billion; 2008 — $1.3 billion; and 
2009 — $1.3 billion. In 2005, under the terms of an agree- 
ment entered in 2004, the company exercised its option to 
acquire additional regasification capacity at the Sabine Pass 
Liquefied Natural Gas Terminal. Payments of $2.5 billion 
over the 20-year period are expected to commence in 2009. 

Minority Interests The company has commitments of 
approximately $200 million related to minority interests in 
subsidiary companies. 


The following table summarizes the company’s signifi- 
cant contractual obligations: 


Contractual Obligations 


Millions of dollars Payments Due by Period 
2007- After 
Total 2006 2009 2010 2010 
On Balance Sheet: 
Short-Term Debt! $ 739 $ 739 $ - $ - $ a 
Long-Term Debt! 11,807 — 8,775 176 =. 2,856 
Noncancelable Capital 
Lease Obligations 324 - 154 36 134 
Interest Expense 5,600 500 1,100 300 = 3,700 
OffBalance-Sheet: 
Noncancelable Operating 
Lease Obligations 2,917 507. —-:1,194 284 932 
Unconditional Purchase 
Obligations 1,200 500 600 100 = 
Throughput and 


Take-or-Pay Agreements 10,800 1,700 4,900 400 3,800 


"$4.9 billion of short-term debt that the company expects to refinance is included in 
long-term debt. The repayment schedule above reflects the projected repayment of the 
entire amounts in the 2007-2009 period. 

2 Includes guarantees of $247 of LESOP (leveraged employee stock ownership plan) debt, 
$14 due in 2006 and $233 due after 2006. 


FINANCIAL AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 
Commodity Derivative Instruments Chevron is exposed to 
market risks related to the price volatility of crude oil, refined 
products, natural gas, natural gas liquids and refinery feed- 
stock. The company uses derivative commodity instruments 
to manage these exposures on a portion of its activity, includ- 
ing firm commitments and anticipated transactions for the 
purchase or sale of crude oil; feedstock purchases for company 
refineries; crude oil and refined products inventories; and 
fixed-price contracts to sell natural gas and natural gas liquids. 

Chevron also uses derivative commodity instruments for 
trading purposes. The results of this activity were not mate- 
rial to the company’s financial position, net income or cash 
flows in 2005. 

The company’s positions are monitored and managed 
on a daily basis by an internal risk control group to ensure 
compliance with the company’s risk management policy that 
has been approved by the Audit Committee of the company’s 
Board of Directors. 

The derivative instruments used in the company’s risk 
management and trading activities consist mainly of futures, 
options, and swap contracts traded on the New York Mer- 
cantile Exchange and the International Petroleum Exchange. 
In addition, crude oil, natural gas and refined product swap 
contracts and option contracts are entered into principally 
with major financial institutions and other oil and gas com- 
panies in the “over-the-counter” markets. 

Virtually all derivatives beyond those designated as normal 
purchase and normal sale contracts are recorded at fair value on 
the Consolidated Balance Sheet with resulting gains and losses 
reflected in income. Fair values are derived principally from 
market quotes and other independent third-party quotes. 

Each hypothetical 10 percent increase in the price of 
natural gas and crude oil would increase the fair value of the 
natural gas purchase derivative contracts by approximately 
$33 million and reduce the fair value of the crude oil sale 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 41 


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF 


FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


derivative contracts by about $11 million. The same hypothet- 
ical decrease in the prices of these commodities would result 
in the same opposite effects on the fair values of the contracts. 

The hypothetical effect on these contracts was estimated 
by calculating the cash value of the contracts as the differ- 
ence between the hypothetical and contract delivery prices 
multiplied by the contract amounts. 

Foreign Currency The company enters into forward 
exchange contracts, generally with terms of 180 days or less, 
to manage some of its foreign currency exposures. These expo- 
sures include revenue and anticipated purchase transactions, 
including foreign currency capital expenditures and lease com- 
mitments forecasted to occur within 180 days. The forward 
exchange contracts are recorded at fair value on the balance 
sheet with resulting gains and losses reflected in income. 

The aggregate effect of a hypothetical 10 percent 
increase in the value of the U.S. dollar at year-end 2005 
would be a reduction in the fair value of the foreign exchange 
contracts of approximately $70 million. The effect would 
be the opposite for a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in the 
year-end value of the U.S. dollar. 

Interest Rates The company enters into interest rate 
swaps as part of its overall strategy to manage the interest 
rate risk on its debt. Under the terms of the swaps, net cash 
settlements are based on the difference between fixed-rate 
and floating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to 
agreed notional principal amounts. Interest rate swaps related 
to a portion of the company’s fixed-rate debt are accounted 
for as fair value hedges, whereas interest rate swaps relating to 
a portion of the company’s floating-rate debt are recorded at 
fair value on the balance sheet with resulting gains and losses 
reflected in income. 

At year-end 2005, the weighted average maturity of 
“receive fixed” interest rate swaps was approximately 2 years. 
There were no “receive floating” swaps outstanding at year 
end. A hypothetical increase of 10 basis points in fixed inter- 
est rates would reduce the fair value of the “receive fixed” 
swaps by approximately $3 million. 

For the financial and derivative instruments discussed 
above, there was not a material change in market risk 
between 2005 and 2004. 

The hypothetical variances used in this section were 
selected for illustrative purposes only and do not represent 
the company’s estimation of market changes. The actual 
impact of future market changes could differ materially due 
to factors discussed elsewhere in this report, including those 
set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A 
of the company’s 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 


42 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES 

Chevron enters into a number of business arrangements 

with related parties, principally its equity affiliates. These 
arrangements include long-term supply or offtake agree- 
ments. Long-term purchase agreements are in place with the 
company’s refining affiliate in Thailand. Refer to page 41 for 
further discussion. Management believes the foregoing agree- 
ments and others have been negotiated on terms consistent 
with those that would have been negotiated with an unre- 
lated party. 


LITIGATION AND OTHER CONTINGENCIES 

MTBE Chevron and many other companies in the petro- 
leum industry have used methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) 
as a gasoline additive. 

Chevron is a party to more than 70 lawsuits and claims, 
the majority of which involve numerous other petroleum 
marketers and refiners, related to the use of MTBE in cer- 
tain oxygenated gasolines and the alleged seepage of MTBE 
into groundwater. Resolution of these actions may ultimately 
require the company to correct or ameliorate the alleged 
effects on the environment of prior release of MTBE by the 
company or other parties. Additional lawsuits and claims 
related to the use of MTBE, including personal-injury 
claims, may be filed in the future. 

The company’s ultimate exposure related to these lawsuits 
and claims is not currently determinable, but could be material 
to net income in any one period. The company does not use 
MTBE in the manufacture of gasoline in the United States. 

Environmental The company is subject to loss contingen- 
cies pursuant to environmental laws and regulations that in 
the future may require the company to take action to correct 
or ameliorate the effects on the environment of prior release of 
chemicals or petroleum substances, including MTBE, by the 
company or other parties. Such contingencies may exist for 
various sites including, but not limited to federal Superfund 
sites and analogous sites under state laws, refineries, crude oil 
fields, service stations, terminals, and land development areas, 
whether operating, closed or divested. 

The following table displays the annual changes to the 
company’s before-tax environmental remediation reserves, 
including those for federal Superfund sites and analogous 
sites under state laws. 


Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 
Balance at January 1 $ 1,047 $ 1,149 $ 1,090 
Net Additions 731 155 296 
Expenditures (309) (257) (237) 
Balance at December 31 $ 1,469 $ 1,047 $1,149 


Included in the additions for 2005 were liabilities 
assumed in connection with the acquisition of Unocal. These 
liabilities relate primarily to sites that had been divested or 
closed by Unocal prior to its acquisition by Chevron, includ- 


ing but were not limited to, former refineries, transportation 
and distribution facilities and service stations, former crude 
oil and natural gas fields and mining operations, as well as 
active mining operations. Other liability additions during 
2005 for heritage-Chevron related primarily to refined-prod- 
uct marketing sites and various operating, closed or divested 
facilities in the United States. 

The company manages environmental liabilities under 
specific sets of regulatory requirements, which in the United 
States include the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act 
and various state or local regulations. No single remediation 
site at year-end 2005 had a recorded liability that was mate- 
rial to the company’s financial position, results of operations 
or liquidity. 

As of December 31, 2005, Chevron was involved with 
the remediation activities of 221 sites for which it had been 
identified as a potentially responsible party or otherwise by 
the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) 


YEAR-END ENVIRONMENTAL 
or other regulatory agen- 


REMEDIATION RESERVES 


Millions of dollars cies under the provisions 


ieoe of the federal Superfund 
ee law or analogous state 


laws. The company’s 
1200 


800 
400 


01 02 03 04 O05 


remediation reserve for 
these sites at year-end 
2005 was $139 million. 
The federal Superfund 


law and analogous state 


So 


laws provide for joint and 
several liability for all 


o 


responsible parties. Any 
future actions by the EPA 
or other regulatory agen- 


Reserves for environmental remedia- 
tion increased 40 percent from 
2004, mainly due to the assumption 
of Unocal environmental liabilities. 


cies to require Chevron to 
assume other potentially 
responsible parties’ costs 
at designated hazardous 
waste sites are not expected to have a material effect on the 
company’s consolidated financial position or liquidity. 

Of the remaining year-end 2005 environmental reserves 
balance of $1,330 million, $855 million related to approxi- 
mately 2,250 sites for the company’s U.S. downstream 
operations, including refineries and other plants, marketing 
locations (i.e., service stations and terminals) and pipelines. 
The remaining $475 million was associated with various sites 
in the international downstream ($101 million), upstream 
($257 million), chemicals ($50 million) and other ($67 
million). Liabilities at all sites, whether operating, closed or 
divested, were primarily associated with the company’s plans 
and activities to remediate soil and/or groundwater contami- 
nation or both. These and other activities include one or 
more of the following: site assessment; soil excavation; offsite 
disposal of contaminants; onsite containment, remediation 
and/or extraction of petroleum hydrocarbon liquid and vapor 
from soil; groundwater extraction and treatment; and moni- 
toring of the natural attenuation of the contaminants. 


It is likely that the company will continue to incur 
additional liabilities, beyond those recorded, for environ- 
mental remediation relating to past operations. These 
future costs are not fully determinable due to such factors 
as the unknown magnitude of possible contamination, the 
unknown timing and extent of the corrective actions that 
may be required, the determination of the company’s liability 
in proportion to other responsible parties, and the extent to 
which such costs are recoverable from third parties. Although 
the amount of future costs may be material to the company’s 
results of operations in the period in which they are recog- 
nized, the company does not expect these costs will have a 
material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position 
or liquidity. Also, the company does not believe its obliga- 
tions to make such expenditures have had, or will have, any 
significant impact on the company’s competitive position 
relative to other U.S. or international petroleum or chemical 
companies. 

Effective January 1, 2003, the company implemented 
Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 143, 
‘Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations” (FAS 143). 
Under FAS 143, the fair value of a liability for an asset retire- 
ment obligation is recorded when there is a legal obligation 
associated with the retirement of long-lived assets and the 
liability can be reasonably estimated. The liability balance of 
$4.3 billion for asset retirement obligations at year-end 2005 
related primarily to upstream and coal properties. 

For the company’s other ongoing operating assets, such as 
refineries and chemicals facilities, no provisions are made for 
exit or cleanup costs that may be required when such assets 
reach the end of their useful lives unless a decision to sell or 
otherwise abandon the facility has been made, as the inde- 
terminate settlement dates for the asset retirements prevent 
estimation of the fair value of the asset retirement obligation. 

Refer also to Note 24, beginning on page 83, related to 
FAS 143 and the company’s adoption in 2005 of FIN 47, 
FASB Interpretation No. 47, “Accounting for Conditional Asset 
Retirement Obligations — An Interpretation of FASB Statement 
No. 143” (FIN 47), and the discussion of “Environmental 
Matters” on page 45. 

Income Taxes The company calculates its income tax 
expense and liabilities quarterly. These liabilities gener- 
ally are not finalized with the individual taxing authorities 
until several years after the end of the annual period for 
which income taxes have been calculated. The U.S. federal 
income tax liabilities have been settled through 1996 for 
Chevron Corporation (formerly ChevronTexaco Corpora- 
tion) and 1997 for Chevron Global Energy Inc. (formerly 
Caltex Corporation), Unocal Corporation (Unocal), and 
Texaco Inc. (Texaco). The company’s California franchise 
tax liabilities have been settled through 1991 for Chevron, 
1998 for Unocal and through 1987 for Texaco. Settlement of 
open tax years, as well as tax issues in other countries where 
the company conducts its businesses, is not expected to have 
a material effect on the consolidated financial position or 
liquidity of the company and, in the opinion of management, 
adequate provision has been made for income and franchise 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 43 


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF 
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


taxes for all years under examination or subject to future 
examination. 

Global Operations Chevron and its affiliates conduct 
business activities in approximately 180 countries. Areas 
in which the company and its affiliates have significant 
operations or ownership interests include the United States, 
Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom, Norway, Denmark, 
France, the Netherlands, the Partitioned Neutral Zone 
between Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, Republic of the Congo, 
Angola, Nigeria, Chad, South Africa, the Democratic Repub- 
lic of the Congo, Indonesia, Bangladesh, the Philippines, 
Myanmar, Singapore, China, Thailand, Vietnam, Cambo- 
dia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Venezuela, Argentina, Brazil, 
Colombia, Trinidad and Tobago and South Korea. The com- 
pany’s Caspian Pipeline Consortium (CPC) affiliate operates 
in Russia and Kazakhstan. The company’s Tengizchevroil 
affiliate operates in Kazakhstan. Through an affiliate, the 
company participates in the development of the Baku-Tbilisi- 
Ceyhan (BTC) pipeline through Azerbaijan, Georgia and 
Turkey. Also through an affiliate, the company has an inter- 
est in the Chad/Cameroon pipeline. The company’s Petrolera 
Ameriven affiliate operates the Hamaca project in Venezuela. 
The company’s Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC 
(CPChem) affiliate manufactures and markets a wide range 
of petrochemicals on a worldwide basis, with manufacturing 
facilities in the United States, Puerto Rico, Singapore, China, 
South Korea, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Mexico and Belgium. 

The company’s operations, particularly exploration and 
production, can be affected by changing economic, regula- 
tory and political environments in the various countries 
in which it operates, including the United States. As has 
occurred in the past, actions could be taken by host govern- 
ments to increase public ownership of the company’s partially 
or wholly owned businesses or assets or to impose additional 
taxes or royalties on the company’s operations or both. 

In certain locations, host governments have imposed 
restrictions, controls and taxes, and in others, political condi- 
tions have existed that may threaten the safety of employees 
and the company’s continued presence in those countries. 
Internal unrest, acts of violence or strained relations between 
a host government and the company or other governments 
may affect the company’s operations. Those developments 
have, at times, significantly affected the company’s related 
operations and results and are carefully considered by man- 
agement when evaluating the level of current and future 
activity in such countries. Refer to page 30 for a discussion 
of the company’s transition agreement with Petrdéleos de Ven- 
ezuela, S.A. (PDVSA), the Venezuelan state-owned petroleum 
company, to convert contracts for the Boscan and LL-652 
operating service agreements into an Empresa Mixta. 

Suspended Wells The company suspends the costs of 
exploratory wells pending a final determination of the com- 
mercial potential of the related crude oil and natural gas 


44 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


fields. The ultimate disposition of these well costs is depen- 
dent on the results of future drilling activity, or development 
decisions or both. If the company decides not to continue 
development, the costs of these wells are expensed. At 
December 31, 2005, the company had approximately $1.1 
billion of suspended exploratory wells included in properties, 
plant and equipment, an increase of more than $400 million 
from 2004 and an increase of less than $600 million from 
2003. Of the increase in 2005, about $300 million was the 
year-end suspended well balance for the former-Unocal oper- 
ations. The year-end 2005 balance primarily reflects drilling 
activities in the United States, Nigeria and Indonesia. 

The future trend of the company’s exploration expenses 
can be affected by amounts associated with well write-offs, 
including wells that had been previously suspended pend- 
ing determination as to whether the well had found reserves 
that could be classified as proved. The effect on exploration 
expenses in future periods of the $1.1 billion of suspended 
wells at year-end 2005 is uncertain pending future activities, 
including normal project evaluation and additional drilling. 

Refer to Note 20, beginning on page 73, for additional 
discussion of suspended wells. 

Equity Redetermination For crude oil and natural gas 
producing operations, ownership agreements may provide for 
periodic reassessments of equity interests in estimated crude 
oil and natural gas reserves. These activities, individually or 
together, may result in gains or losses that could be material 
to earnings in any given period. One such equity redetermi- 
nation process has been under way since 1996 for Chevron’s 
interests in four producing zones at the Naval Petroleum 
Reserve at Elk Hills, California, for the time when the 
remaining interests in these zones were owned by the U.S. 
Department of Energy. A wide range remains for a possible 
net settlement amount for the four zones. Chevron currently 
estimates its maximum possible net before-tax liability at 
approximately $200 million. At the same time, a possible 
maximum net amount that could be owed to Chevron was 
estimated at about $50 million. The timing of the settle- 
ment and the exact amount within this range of estimates 
are uncertain. 

Accounting for Buy/Sell Contracts In the first quarter 
2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued 
comment letters to Chevron and other companies in the oil 
and gas industry requesting disclosure of information related 
to the accounting for buy/sell contracts. Under a buy/sell 
contract, a company agrees to buy a specific quantity and 
quality of a commodity to be delivered at a specific location 
while simultaneously agreeing to sell a specified quantity 
and quality of a commodity at a different location to the 
same counterparty. Physical delivery occurs for each side of 
the transaction, and the risk and reward of ownership are 
evidenced by title transfer, assumption of environmental risk, 
transportation scheduling, credit risk and risk of nonperfor- 


mance by the counterparty. Both parties settle each side of 
the buy/sell through separate invoicing. 

The company routinely enters into buy/sell contracts, 
primarily in the United States downstream business, asso- 
ciated with crude oil and refined products. For crude oil, 
these contracts are used to facilitate the company’s crude 
oil marketing activity, which includes the purchase and sale 
of crude oil production, fulfillment of the company’s sup- 
ply arrangements as to physical delivery location and crude 
oil specifications, and purchase of crude oil to supply the 
company’s refining system. For refined products, buy/sell 
arrangements are used to help fulfill the company’s supply 
agreements to customer locations and specifications. 

The company has historically accounted for buy/sell 
transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income the 
same as for a monetary transaction — purchases are reported 
as “Purchased crude oil and products;” sales are reported as 
“Sales and other operating revenues.” The SEC raised the 
issue as to whether the accounting for buy/sell contracts 
should be shown net on the income statement and accounted 
for under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board 
(APB) Opinion No. 29, “Accounting for Nonmonetary Trans- 
actions” (APB 29). The company understands that others in 
the oil and gas industry may report buy/sell transactions on a 
net basis in the income statement rather than gross. 

The Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) of the FASB 
deliberated this topic as Issue No. 04-13, “Accounting for 
Purchases and Sales of Inventory with the Same Counterparty” 
(EITF 04-13). At its September 2005 meeting, the EITF 
reached consensus that two or more legally separate exchange 
transactions with the same counterparty, including buy/sell 
transactions, should be combined and considered as a single 
arrangement for purposes of applying APB 29 when the 
transactions were entered into “in contemplation” of one 
another. EITF 04-13 was ratified by the FASB in September 
2005 and is effective for new arrangements, or modifications 
or renewals of existing arrangements, entered into beginning 
on or after April 1, 2006, which will be the effective date for 
the company’s adoption of this standard. Upon adoption, the 
company will report the net effect of buy/sell transactions on 
its Consolidated Statement of Income as “Purchased crude 
oil and products” instead of reporting the revenues associated 
with these arrangements as “Sales and other operating rev- 
enues” and the costs as “Purchased crude oil and products.” 

While this issue was under deliberation by the EITF, the 
SEC staff directed Chevron and other companies to disclose 
on the face of the income statement the amounts associated 
with buy/sell contracts and to discuss in a footnote to the 
financial statements the basis for the underlying accounting. 
The amounts for buy/sell contracts shown on the company’s 
Consolidated Statement of Income “Sales and other operating 
revenues” for the three years ending December 31, 2005, were 
$23,822, $18,650 and $14,246, respectively. These revenue 
amounts associated with buy/sell contracts represented 12 
percent of total “Sales and other operating revenues” in 2005, 
2004 and 2003. Nearly all of these revenue amounts in each 
period associated with buy/sell contracts pertain to the com- 
pany’s downstream segment. The costs associated with these 


buy/sell revenue amounts are included in “Purchased crude 
oil and products” on the Consolidated Statement of Income 
in each period. 

Other Contingencies Chevron receives claims from, and 
submits claims to, customers, trading partners, U.S. federal, 
state and local regulatory bodies, host governments, contrac- 
tors, insurers and suppliers. The amounts of these claims, 
individually and in the aggregate, may be significant and 
may take lengthy periods to resolve. 

The company and its affiliates also continue to review 
and analyze their operations and may close, abandon, sell, 
exchange, acquire or restructure assets to achieve operational 
or strategic benefits and to improve competitiveness and prof 
itability. These activities, individually or together, may result 
in gains or losses in future periods. 


ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS 

Virtually all aspects of the businesses in which the company 
engages are subject to various federal, state and local envi- 
ronmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These 
regulatory requirements continue to increase in both number 
and complexity over time and govern not only the manner 
in which the company conducts its operations, but also the 
products it sells. Most of the costs of complying with laws 
and regulations pertaining to company operations and prod- 
ucts are embedded in the normal costs of doing business. 

Accidental leaks and spills requiring cleanup may occur 
in the ordinary course of business. In addition to the costs 
for environmental protection associated with its ongoing 
operations and products, the company may incur expenses 
for corrective actions at various owned and previously owned 
facilities and at third-party-owned waste-disposal sites used 
by the company. An obligation may arise when operations are 
closed or sold or at non-Chevron sites where company products 
have been handled or disposed of. Most of the expenditures to 
fulfill these obligations relate to facilities and sites where past 
operations followed practices and procedures that were con- 
sidered acceptable at the time but now require investigative or 
remedial work or both to meet current standards. 

Using definitions and guidelines established by the 
American Petroleum Institute, Chevron estimated its world- 
wide environmental spending in 2005 at approximately $1.3 
billion for its consolidated companies. Included in these 
expenditures were $341 million of environmental capital 
expenditures and $979 million of costs associated with the 
prevention, control, abatement or elimination of hazardous 
substances and pollutants from operating, closed or divested 
sites, and the abandonment and restoration of sites, which 
includes $14 million and $66 million, respectively, for 
Unocal activities for the last five months of 2005. 

For 2006, total worldwide environmental capital expen- 
ditures are estimated at $1.1 billion. These capital costs are 
in addition to the ongoing costs of complying with envi- 
ronmental regulations and the costs to remediate previously 
contaminated sites. 

It is not possible to predict with certainty the amount 
of additional investments in new or existing facilities or 
amounts of incremental operating costs to be incurred in the 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 45 


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF 


FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


future to: prevent, control, reduce or eliminate releases of 
hazardous materials into the environment; comply with exist- 
ing and new environmental laws or regulations; or remediate 
and restore areas damaged by prior releases of hazardous 
materials. Although these costs may be significant to the 
results of operations in any single period, the company does 
not expect them to have a material effect on the company’s 
liquidity or financial position. 


CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS 
Management makes many estimates and assumptions in 

the application of generally accepted accounting principles 
(GAAP) that may have a material impact on the company’s 
consolidated financial statements and related disclosures 

and on the comparability of such information over different 
reporting periods. All such estimates and assumptions affect 
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, 
as well as disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. 
Estimates and assumptions are based on management’s expe- 
rience and other information available prior to the issuance 
of the financial statements. Materially different results can 
occur as circumstances change and additional information 
becomes known. 

The discussion in this section of “critical” accounting 
estimates or assumptions is according to the disclosure guide- 
lines of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), 
wherein: 

1. the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material 
due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment neces- 
sary to account for highly uncertain matters, or the 
susceptibility of such matters to change; 

2. the impact of the estimates and assumptions on the 
company’s financial condition or operating perfor- 
mance is material. 

Besides those meeting these “critical” criteria, the 
company makes many other accounting estimates and 
assumptions in preparing its financial statements and related 
disclosures. Although not associated with “highly uncertain 
matters,” these estimates and assumptions are also subject to 
revision as circumstances warrant, and materially different 
results may sometimes occur. 

For example, the recording of deferred tax assets 
requires an assessment under the accounting rules that the 
future realization of the associated tax benefits be “more 
likely than not.” Another example is the estimation of oil 
and gas reserves under SEC rules that require “...geological 
and engineering data (that) demonstrate with reasonable 
certainty (reserves) to be recoverable in future years from 
known reservoirs under existing economic and operating 
conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate 
is made.” Refer to Table V, “Reserve Quantity Information,” 
beginning on page 94, for the changes in these estimates 
for the three years ending December 31, 2005, and to Table 


46 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


VII, “Changes in the Standardized Measure of Discounted 
Future Net Cash Flows From Proved Reserves” on page 102 
for estimates of proved-reserve values for each of the three 
years ending December 31, 2003 through 2005, which were 
based on year-end prices at the time. Note | to the Consoli- 
dated Financial Statements, beginning on page 58, includes a 
description of the “successful efforts” method of accounting 
for oil and gas exploration and production activities. The 
estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves are important 
to the timing of expense recognition for costs incurred. 

The discussion of the critical accounting policy for 
“Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment and Invest- 
ments in Affiliates,” on page 47, includes reference to 
conditions under which downward revisions of proved 
reserve quantities could result in impairments of oil and gas 
properties. This commentary should be read in conjunc- 
tion with disclosures elsewhere in this discussion and in the 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements related to 
estimates, uncertainties, contingencies and new accounting 
standards. Significant accounting policies are discussed in 
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, beginning 
on page 58. The development and selection of accounting 
estimates and assumptions, including those deemed “criti- 
cal,” and the associated disclosures in this discussion have 
been discussed by management with the audit committee of 
the Board of Directors. 

The areas of accounting and the associated “critical” esti- 
mates and assumptions made by the company are as follows: 

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans The 
determination of pension plan expense is based on a num- 
ber of actuarial assumptions. Two critical assumptions are 
the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and 
the discount rate applied to pension plan obligations. For 
other postretirement employee benefit (OPEB) plans, which 
provide for certain health care and life insurance benefits 
for qualifying retired employees and which are not funded, 
critical assumptions in determining OPEB expense are the 
discount rate applied to benefit obligations and the assumed 
health care cost-trend rates used in the calculation of benefit 
obligations. 

Note 21, beginning on page 74, includes information for 
the three years ending December 31, 2005, on the compo- 
nents of pension and OPEB expense and on the underlying 
assumptions as well as on the funded status for the compa- 
ny’s pension plans at the end of 2005 and 2004. 

To estimate the long-term rate of return on pension 
assets, the company employs a rigorous process that incorpo- 
rates actual historical asset-class returns and an assessment 
of expected future performance and takes into consider- 
ation external actuarial advice and asset-class factors. Asset 
allocations are periodically updated using pension plan asset/ 
liability studies, and the determination of the company’s esti- 
mates of long-term rates of return are consistent with these 


studies. The expected long-term rate of return on United 
States pension plan assets, which account for 72 percent of 
the company’s pension plan assets, has remained at 7.8 per- 
cent since 2002. 

The year-end market-related value of assets of the major 
U.S. pension plan used in the determination of pension 
expense was based on the market value in the preceding three 
months as opposed to the maximum allowable period of five 
years under U.S. accounting rules. Management considers 
the three-month period long enough to minimize the effects 
of distortions from day-to-day market volatility and still be 
contemporaneous to the end of the year. For other plans, 
market value of assets as of the measurement date is used in 
calculating the pension expense. 

The discount rate assumptions used to determine U.S. 
and international pension and postretirement benefit plan obli- 
gations and expense reflect the prevailing rates available on 
high-quality fixed-income debt instruments. At December 31, 
2005, the company selected a 5.5 percent discount rate based 
on Moody’s Aa Corporate Bond Index and a cash flow 
analysis using the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve for the 
major U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans. The 
discount rates at the end of 2004 and 2003 were 5.8 percent 
and 6 percent, respectively. 

An increase in the expected long-term return on plan 
assets or the discount rate would reduce pension plan 
expense, and vice versa. Total pension expense for 2005 was 
approximately $600 million. As an indication of the sen- 
sitivity of pension expense to the long-term rate of return 
assumption, a | percent increase in the expected rate of 
return on assets of the company’s primary U.S. pension plan, 
which accounted for about 53 percent of the companywide 
pension obligation, would have reduced total pension plan 
expense for 2005 by approximately $50 million. A 1 percent 
increase in the discount rate for this same plan would have 
reduced total benefit plan expense for 2005 by approximately 
$130 million. The actual rates of return on plan assets and 
discount rates may vary significantly from estimates because 
of unanticipated changes in the world’s financial markets. 

In 2005, the company’s pension plan contributions were 
approximately $1 billion (nearly $800 million to the U.S. 
plans). In 2006, the company expects contributions to be 
approximately $500 million. Actual contribution amounts 
are dependent upon plan-investment results, changes in 
pension obligations, regulatory environments and other 
economic factors. Additional funding may be required if 
investment returns are insufficient to offset increases in plan 
obligations. 

Pension expense is recorded on the Consolidated State- 
ment of Income in “Operating expenses” or “Selling, general 
and administrative expenses” and applies to all business seg- 
ments. Depending upon the funding status of the different 
plans, either a long-term prepaid asset or a long-term liability 
is recorded. Any unfunded accumulated benefit obligation in 
excess of recorded liabilities is recorded in “Other compre- 
hensive income.” See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, beginning on page 74, for the pension-related 
balance sheet effects at the end of 2005 and 2004. 


For the company’s OPEB plans, expense for 2005 was 
about $200 million and was also recorded as “Operating 
expenses” or “Selling, general and administrative expenses” 
in all business segments. 

Effective January 1, 2005, the company amended its 
main U.S. postretirement medical plan to limit future 
increases in the company contribution. For current retirees, 
the increase in company contribution is capped at 4 percent 
each year. For future retirees, the 4 percent cap will be effec- 
tive at retirement. For active employees and retirees below 
age 65 whose claims experiences are combined for rating 
purposes, the assumed health care cost trend rates start with 
10 percent in 2006 and gradually drop to 5 percent for 2011 
and beyond. 

As an indication of discount rate sensitivity to the deter- 
mination of OPEB expense in 2005, a | percent increase in 
the discount rate for the company’s primary U.S. OPEB plan, 
which accounted for about 80 percent of the companywide 
OPEB obligation, would have decreased OPEB expense by 
approximately $20 million. 

Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment and Invest- 
ments in Affiliates The company assesses its property, plant 
and equipment (PP&E) for possible impairment whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
value of the assets may not be recoverable. Such indicators 
include changes in the company’s business plans, changes in 
commodity prices and, for crude oil and natural gas prop- 
erties, significant downward revisions of estimated proved 
reserve quantities. If the carrying value of an asset exceeds 
the future undiscounted cash flows expected from the asset, 
an impairment charge is recorded for the excess of carrying 
value of the asset over its fair value. 

Determination as to whether and how much an asset is 
impaired involves management estimates on highly uncertain 
matters such as future commodity prices, the effects of infla- 
tion and technology improvements on operating expenses, 
production profiles and the outlook for global or regional 
market supply and demand conditions for crude oil, natural 
gas, commodity chemicals and refined products. How- 
ever, the impairment reviews and calculations are based on 
assumptions that are consistent with the company’s business 
plans and long-term investment decisions. 

The amount and income statement classification of 
major impairments of PP&E for the three years ending 
December 31, 2005, are included in the commentary on the 
business segments elsewhere in this discussion. An estimate 
as to the sensitivity to earnings for these periods if other 
assumptions had been used in the impairment reviews and 
impairment calculations is not practicable, given the broad 
range of the company’s PP&E and the number of assump- 
tions involved in the estimates. That is, favorable changes to 
some assumptions might have avoided the need to impair any 
assets in these periods, whereas unfavorable changes might 
have caused an additional unknown number of other assets 
to become impaired. 

Investments in common stock of affiliates that are 
accounted for under the equity method, as well as invest- 
ments in other securities of these equity investees, are 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 4/7 


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF 


FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


reviewed for impairment when the fair value of the invest- 
ment falls below the company’s carrying value. When such a 
decline is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment 
charge is recorded to the income statement for the difference 
between the investment’s carrying value and its estimated fair 
value at the time. In making the determination as to whether 
a decline is other than temporary, the company considers such 
factors as the duration and extent of the decline, the investee’s 
financial performance and the company’s ability and inten- 
tion to retain its investment for a period that will be sufficient 
to allow for any anticipated recovery in the investment’s 
market value. Differing assumptions could affect whether an 
investment is impaired in any period or the amount of the 
impairment and are not subject to sensitivity analysis. 

From time to time, the company performs impairment 
reviews and determines that no write-down in the carrying 
value of an asset or asset group is required. For example, 
when significant downward revisions to crude oil and natural 
gas reserves are made for any single field or concession, an 
impairment review is performed to determine if the carrying 
value of the asset remains recoverable. Also, if the expectation 
of sale of a particular asset or asset group in any period has 
been deemed more likely than not, an impairment review is 
performed, and if the estimated net proceeds exceed the car- 
rying value of the asset or asset group, no impairment charge 
is required. Such calculations are reviewed each period until 
the asset or asset group is disposed of. Assets that are not 
impaired on a held-and-used basis could possibly become 
impaired if a decision was made to sell such assets, that is, 
the asset is held for sale, and the estimated proceeds less costs 
to sell were less than the associated carrying values. 

Business Combinations — Purchase-Price Allocation Ac- 
counting for business combinations requires the allocation of 
the company’s purchase price to the various assets and liabili- 
ties of the acquired business at their respective fair values. 
The company uses all available information to make these 
fair value determinations, and for major acquisitions, may 
hire an independent appraisal firm to assist in making fair- 
value estimates. In some instances, assumptions with respect 
to the timing and amount of future revenues and expenses 
associated with an asset might have to be used in determin- 
ing its fair value. Actual timing and amount of net cash flows 
from revenues and expenses related to that asset over time 
may differ materially from those initial estimates, and if the 
timing is delayed significantly or if the net cash flows decline 
significantly, the asset could become impaired. 


48 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


Goodwill When acquired as part of a business combina- 
tion, goodwill is not subject to amortization. As required by 
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement 
No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” the com- 
pany will test such goodwill at the reporting unit level for 
impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if 
an event occurs or circumstances change that would more 
likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below 
its carrying amount. The goodwill arising from the Unocal 
acquisition is described in more detail in Note 2, beginning 
on page 60. 

Contingent Losses Management also makes judgments 
and estimates in recording liabilities for claims, litigation, 
tax matters and environmental remediation. Actual costs can 
frequently vary from estimates for a variety of reasons. For 
example, the costs from settlement of claims and litigation 
can vary from estimates based on differing interpretations 
of laws, opinions on culpability and assessments on the 
amount of damages. Similarly, liabilities for environmental 
remediation are subject to change because of changes in laws, 
regulations and their interpretation; the determination of 
additional information on the extent and nature of site con- 
tamination; and improvements in technology. 

Under the accounting rules, a liability is recorded for 
these types of contingencies if management determines the 
loss to be both probable and estimable. The company gener- 
ally records these losses as “Operating expenses” or “Selling, 
general and administrative expenses” on the Consolidated 
Statement of Income. Refer to the business segment discus- 
sions elsewhere in this discussion for the effect on earnings 
from losses associated with certain litigation and environ- 
mental remediation and tax matters for the three years ended 
December 31, 2005. 

An estimate as to the sensitivity to earnings for these 
periods if other assumptions had been used in recording 
these liabilities is not practicable because of the number of 
contingencies that must be assessed, the number of underly- 
ing assumptions and the wide range of reasonably possible 
outcomes, both in terms of the probability of loss and the 
estimates of such loss. 


NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
FASB Statement No. 151, “Inventory Costs, an Amendment of 
ARB No. 43, Chapter 4” (FAS 151) In November 2004, the 
FASB issued FAS 151, which became effective for the com- 
pany on January 1, 2006. The standard amends the guidance 
in Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 43, Chapter 4, 
“Inventory Pricing” to clarify the accounting for abnormal 
amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and 
spoilage. In addition, the standard requires that allocation 
of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be 
based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. 
The adoption of this standard will not have an impact on the 
company’s results of operations, financial position or liquidity. 
EITF Issue No. 04-6, “Accounting for Stripping Costs 
Incurred during Production in the Mining Industry” (Issue 
04-6) In March 2005, the FASB ratified the earlier EITF 
consensus on Issue 04-6, which became effective for the 
company on January 1, 2006. Stripping costs are costs of 
removing overburden and other waste materials to access 
mineral deposits. The consensus calls for stripping costs 
incurred once a mine goes into production to be treated 
as variable production costs that should be considered a 
component of mineral inventory cost subject to ARB No. 
43, “Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research 
Bulletins.” Adoption of this accounting for its coal, oil sands 
and other mining operations will not have a significant effect 
on the company’s results of operations, financial position or 
liquidity. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 49 


QUARTERLY RESULTS AND STOCK MARKET DATA 


Unaudited 


2005 2004 
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 4THQ 3RDQ 2NDQ 1STQ 4THQ 3RDQ 2NDQ 1ST Q 
REVENUES AND OTHER INCOME 
Sales and other operating revenues!” $52,457 $53,429 $47,265 $40,490 | $41,612 $39,611 $36,579 $ 33,063 
Income from equity affiliates 1,110 871 861 889 785 613 740 444 
Other income 227 156 217 228 295 496 924 138 
TOTAL REVENUES AND OTHER INCOME 53,794 54,456 48,343 41,607 42,692 40,720 38,243 33,645 
COSTS AND OTHER DEDUCTIONS 
Purchased crude oil and products 34,246 36,101 31,130 26,491 26,290 25,650 22,452 20,027 
Operating expenses 3,819 3,190 2,713 2,469 2,874 25957 2,234 2,167 
Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,340 1,337 1,152 999 1,319 1,231 986 1,021 
Exploration expenses 274 177 139 153 274 173 165 85 
Depreciation, depletion and amortization 1,725 1,534 1,320 1,334 1,283 1,219 1,243 1,190 
Taxes other than on income! 5,063 5,282 5,311 5,126 5,216 4,948 4,889 4,765 
Interest and debt expense 135 136 104 107 112 107 94 93 
Minority interests 33 24 18 21 22 23 18 22 
TOTAL COSTS AND OTHER DEDUCTIONS 46,635 47,781 41,887 36,700 37,390 35,908 32,081 29,370 
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 
BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE 7,159 6,675 6,456 4,907 5,302 4,812 6,162 4,275 
INCOME TAX EXPENSE 3,015 3,081 2,772 2,230 1,862 1,875 2,056 1,724 
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 4,144 3,594 3,684 2,677 3,440 2,937 4,106 2,551 
INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS - - - - - 264 19 11 
INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF 
CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES $ 4,144 $ 3,594 $ 3,684 $ 2,677 | $ 3,440 $ 3,201 $ 4,125 $ 2,562 
CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN 
ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES, NET OF TAX - - - - - - - - 
NET INCOME? $ 4,144 $ 3,594 $ 3,684 $ 2,677 | $ 3,440 $ 3,201 $ 4,125 $ 2,562 
PER-SHARE OF COMMON STOCK* 
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 
— BASIC $ 1.88 $ 1.65 $ 1.77 $ 1.28 $ 1.64 $ 1.38 $ 1.93 $ 1.21 
~ DILUTED $ 186 $ 164 $ 1.76 $ 1.28 $ 1.63 $ 1.38 $ 1.93 $ 1.20 
INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 
— BASIC $ - §$ - § - §$ -| $ - $ 0.13 $ 0.01 $ - 
— DILUTED $ - §$ - §$ - §$ -| $ - $ 0.13 $ 0.01 $ - 
CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN 
ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 
_ BASIC S AB ea BS se BS ale es BR a F = F = 
— DILUTED $ - §$ - §$ - §$ -| $ - $$ - §$ - §$ - 
NET INCOME 
— BASIC $ 1.88 $ 1.65 $ 1.77 $ 1.28 $ 1.64 $ 1.51 $ 1.94 $ 1.21 
— DILUTED $ 186 $ 164 $ 176 $ 1.28) $ 163 $ 151 $ 1.94 $ 1.20 
DIVIDENDS $ 045 $ 045 $ 045 $ 040) $ 040 $ 0.40 $ 0.37 $ 0.36 
COMMON STOCK PRICE RANGE — HIGH $64.45 $65.77 $59.34 $62.08 $56.07 $54.49 $47.50 $45.71 
-LOW $ 55.75 $ 56.36 $ 50.51 $ 50.55 $ 50.99 $46.21 $ 43.95 $ 41.99 
! Includes consumer excise taxes: $ 2,173 $ 2,268 $2,162 $ 2,116 $ 2,150 $2,040 $ 1,921 $ 1,857 
? Includes amounts for buy/sell contracts: $5,897 $ 6,588 $5,962 $ 5,375 $ 5,117 $4,640 $ 4,637 $ 4,256 
3 Net benefits (charges) for special items included in 
“Net Income”: - - - $ - $ 146 $ 486 $ 585 $ (55) 


4 The amounts in all periods reflect a two-for-one stock split effected as a 100 percent stock dividend in September 2004. 


The company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (trading symbol: CVX) and on the Pacific Exchange. 


As of February 23, 2006, stockholders of record numbered approximately 230,000. There are no restrictions on the company’s 


ability to pay dividends. 


50 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


To the Stockholders of Chevron Corporation 

Management of Chevron is responsible for preparing the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and the related infor- 
mation appearing in this report. The statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in 
the United States of America and fairly represent the transactions and financial position of the company. The financial statements 
include amounts that are based on management’s best estimates and judgment. 

As stated in its report included herein, the independent registered public accounting firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
has audited the company’s consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board (United States). 

The Board of Directors of Chevron has an Audit Committee composed of directors who are not officers or employees of the 
company. The Audit Committee meets regularly with members of management, the internal auditors and the independent reg- 
istered public accounting firm to review accounting, internal control, auditing and financial reporting matters. Both the internal 
auditors and the independent registered public accounting firm have free and direct access to the Audit Committee without the 
presence of management. 


MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 


The company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, 
as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a—15(f). The company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting based on the 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
Based on the results of this evaluation, the company’s management concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was 
effective as of December 31, 2005. 

The company management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 
2005, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report 
included herein. 


Oy oe ls VL Mamyphse 


DAVID J. O'REILLY STEPHEN J. CROWE MARK A. HUMPHREY 
Chairman of the Board Vice President Vice President 
and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and Comptroller 


February 27, 2006 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 51 


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 


To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Chevron Corporation: 


We have completed integrated audits of Chevron Corporation’s 2005 and 2004 consolidated financial statements and of its internal 
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, and an audit of its 2003 consolidated financial statements in accordance with 
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented 
below. 


CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, stock- 
holders’ equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Chevron Corporation and its subsidiaries 
at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 
December 31, 2005, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial state- 
ments are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements 
based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant 
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion. 

As discussed in Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, beginning on page 83, the Company changed its method of 
accounting for asset retirement obligations as of January 1, 2003. 


INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 


Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over 
Financial Reporting, that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, 
based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of 
the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, 
the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, 
based on criteria established in Jnternal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the COSO. The Company’s management is 
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal 
control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management’s assessment and on the effectiveness 

of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over 
financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those 
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over 
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining 
an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design 
and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. 
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions. 

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions 
of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of 
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company 
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that 
could have a material effect on the financial statements. 

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because 
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 


PruiceweLethenae Coopere- LP 


San Francisco, California 
February 27, 2006 


52 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME 


Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


Year ended December 31 
2005 2004 2003 
REVENUES AND OTHER INCOME 
Sales and other operating revenues!” $ 193,641 $ 150,865 S 1S 5575 
Income from equity affiliates 3,731 DSi 1,029 
Other income 828 1,853 308 
Gain from exchange of Dynegy preferred stock - - 365 
TOTAL REVENUES AND OTHER INCOME 198,200 155,300 WPL 2H 
COSTS AND OTHER DEDUCTIONS 
Purchased crude oil and products” 127,968 94,419 71,310 
Operating expenses 12,191 9,832 8,500 
Selling, general and administrative expenses 4,828 4,557 4,440 
Exploration expenses 743 697 570 
Depreciation, depletion and amortization 5,913 4,935 5,326 
Taxes other than on income! 20,782 19,818 17,901 
Interest and debt expense 482 406 474 
Minority interests 96 85 80 
TOTAL COSTS AND OTHER DEDUCTIONS 173,003 134,749 108,601 
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE 25,197 20,551 12,676 
INCOME TAX EXPENSE 11,098 Tey 5,294 
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 14,099 13,034 7,382 
INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS - 294 44 
INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES $ 14,099 peel o.o28 $ 7,426 
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles - - (196) 
NET INCOME $ 14,099 Selss328 % 7280 
PER-SHARE OF COMMON STOCK? 
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 
— BASIC $ 6.58 $ 6.16 % 3.55 
— DILUTED $ 6.54 $ 6.14 355) 
INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 
— BASIC QS = $ 0.14 $ 0.02 
— DILUTED SG = $ 0.14 $ 0.02 
CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 
— BASIC S = $ = $ (0.09) 
— DILUTED S = $ = $ (0.09) 
NET INCOME 
— BASIC $ 6.58 $ 6.30 $ 3.48 
— DILUTED $ 6.54 $ 6.28 $ 3.48 
Includes consumer excise taxes: $ 8,719 $ 7,968 $ 7,095 
2 Includes amounts in revenues for buy/sell contracts associated costs are in “Purchased crude oil and products.” 
See Note 15, on page 70: $ 23,822 $ 18,650 $ 14,246 


3 All periods reflect a two-for-one stock split effected as a 100 percent stock dividend in September 2004. 


See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 53 


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
Millions of dollars 


Year ended December 31 
2005 2004 2003 
NET INCOME $ 14,099 $ 13,328 $ 7,230 
Currency translation adjustment 
Unrealized net change arising during period (5) 36 32 
Unrealized holding (loss) gain on securities 
Net (loss) gain arising during period (32) 35 445 
Reclassification to net income of net realized (gain) = (44) (365) 
Total (32) (9) 80 
Net derivatives (loss) gain on hedge transactions 
Net (loss) gain arising during period 
Before income taxes (242) (8) 115 
Income taxes 89 (1) (40) 
Reclassification to net income of net realized loss 
Before income taxes 34 = - 
Income taxes (12) = = 
Total (131) (9) 75 
Minimum pension liability adjustment 
Before income taxes 89 719 le 
Income taxes (31) (247) (10) 
Total 58 472 2} 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) GAIN, NET OF TAX (110) 490 189 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME $ 13,989 $ 13,818 $ 7,419 


See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 


54 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 


Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


At December 31 
2005 2004 
ASSETS 
Cash and cash equivalents $ 10,043 8 O29 
Marketable securities 1,101 1,451 
Accounts and notes receivable (less allowance: 2005 — $156; 2004 — $174) 17,184 12,429 
Inventories: 
Crude oil and petroleum products 3,182 2,324 
Chemicals 245 173 
Materials, supplies and other 694 486 
Total inventories 4,121 2,983 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 1,887 2,349 
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 34,336 28,503 
Long-term receivables, net 1,686 1,419 
Investments and advances 17,057 14,389 
Properties, plant and equipment, at cost 127,446 103,954 
Less: Accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization 63,756 59,496 
Properties, plant and equipment, net 63,690 44,458 
Deferred charges and other assets 4,428 4,277 
Goodwill 4,636 - 
Assets held for sale = 162 
TOTAL ASSETS $ 125,833 $ 93,208 
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
Short-term debt $ 739 $ 816 
Accounts payable 16,074 10,747 
Accrued liabilities 3,690 3,410 
Federal and other taxes on income 3,127 2,502 
Other taxes payable 1,381 e320) 
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 25,011 18,795 
Long-term debt 11,807 10,217 
Capital lease obligations 324 239) 
Deferred credits and other noncurrent obligations 10,507 7,942 
Noncurrent deferred income taxes 11,262 7,268 
Reserves for employee benefit plans 4,046 3,345 
Minority interests 200 WZ 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 63,157 47,978 
Preferred stock (authorized 100,000,000 shares, $1.00 par value; none issued) - - 
Common stock (authorized 4,000,000,000 shares, $0.75 par value; 2,442,676,580 
and 2,274,032,014 shares issued at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively) 1,832 1,706 
Capital in excess of par value 13,894 4,160 
Retained earnings 55,738 45,414 
Notes receivable — key employees (3) - 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (429) (319) 
Deferred compensation and benefit plan trust (486) (607) 
Treasury stock, at cost (2005 — 209,989,910 shares; 2004 — 166,911,890 shares) (7,870) (5,124) 
TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 62,676 45,230 
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY $ 125,833 $ 93,208 


See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 55 


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 


Millions of dollars 
Year ended December 31 
2005 2004 2003 
OPERATING ACTIVITIES 
Net income $ 14,099 $ 13,328 $ 7,230 
Adjustments 
Depreciation, depletion and amortization 5,913 4,935 5,326 
Dry hole expense 226 286 256 
Distributions less than income from equity affiliates (1,304) (1,422) (383) 
Net before-tax gains on asset retirements and sales (134) (1,882) (194) 
Net foreign currency effects 62 60 199 
Deferred income tax provision 1,393 (224) 164 
Net (increase) decrease in operating working capital (54) 430 162 
Minority interest in net income 96 85 80 
(Increase) decrease in long-term receivables (191) (60) 12? 
Decrease (increase) in other deferred charges 668 (69) 1,646 
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles - - 196 
Gain from exchange of Dynegy preferred stock - - (365) 
Cash contributions to employee pension plans (1,022) (1,643) (1,417) 
Other 353 866 (597) 
NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES 20,105 14,690 W235) 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES 
Cash portion of Unocal acquisition, net of Unocal cash received (5,934) = = 
Capital expenditures (8,701) (6,310) (5,625) 
Advances to equity affiliate = (2,200) = 
Repayment of loans by equity affiliates 57 1,790 ASS} 
Proceeds from asset sales 2,681 3,671 1,107 
Net sales (purchases) of marketable securities 336 (450) 1533} 
NET CASH USED FOR INVESTING ACTIVITIES (11,561) (3,499) (4,072) 
FINANCING ACTIVITIES 
Net (payments) borrowings of short-term obligations (109) 114 (3,628) 
Proceeds from issuances of long-term debt 20 = 1,034 
Repayments of long-term debt and other financing obligations (966) (1,398) (1,347) 
Cash dividends — common stock (3,778) (3,236) (3,033) 
Dividends paid to minority interests (98) (41) (37) 
Net (purchases) sales of treasury shares (2,597) (1,645) Sy 
Redemption of preferred stock of subsidiaries (140) (18) (75) 
NET CASH USED FOR FINANCING ACTIVITIES (7,668) (6,224) (7,029) 
EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES 
ON CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (124) 58 95 
NET CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 752 5,025 1,309 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT JANUARY 1 9,291 4,266 DO 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT DECEMBER 31 $ 10,043 SS QRH $ 4,266 


See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 


56 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 


Shares in thousands; amounts in millions of dollars 


2005 2004 2003 
Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount 
PREFERRED STOCK - $ - - $ - - $ - 
COMMON STOCK! 
Balance at January 1 2,274,032 $ 1,706 2,274,042 $ 1,706 2,274,042 $ 1,706 
Shares issued for Unocal acquisition 168,645 126 - - 
Conversion of Texaco Inc. acquisition - - (10) - - - 
BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31 2,442,677 $ 1,832 2,274,032 $ 1,706 2,274,042 $ 1,706 
CAPITAL IN EXCESS OF PAR! 
Balance at January 1 $ 4,160 $ 4,002 $ 3,980 
Shares issued for Unocal acquisition 9,585 a - 
Stock options and restricted stock units 67 o - 
Treasury stock transactions 82 158 DD 
BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31 $ 13,894 $ 4,160 $ 4,002 
RETAINED EARNINGS 
Balance at January 1 $ 45,414 $ 35,315 $ 30,942 
Net income 14,099 13,328 7,230 
Cash dividends on common stock (3,778) (3,236) (3,033) 
Tax benefit from dividends paid on 
unallocated ESOP shares and other 3 va 6 
Exchange of Dynegy securities - - 170 
BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31 $ 55,738 $ 45,414 $ 35,315 
NOTES RECEIVABLE — KEY EMPLOYEES $ (3) $ - $ - 
ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 
Currency translation adjustment 
Balance at January 1 $ (140) $ (176) $ (208) 
Change during year? (5) 36 32 
Balance at December 31 $ (145) $ (140) $ (176) 
Minimum pension liability adjustment 
Balance at January 1 $ (402) $ (874) $ (876) 
Change during year 58 472 2 
Balance at December 31 $ (344) $ (402) $ (874) 
Unrealized net holding gain on securities 
Balance at January 1 $ 120 § 129) $ 49 
Change during year (32) (9) 80 
Balance at December 31 $ 88 S$ Io ee 2) 
Net derivatives gain (loss) on hedge transactions 
Balance at January 1 $ 103 S iia $ oy 
Change during year? (131) (9) W 
Balance at December 31 $ (28) § 110 SS 
BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31 $ (429) $ (319) $ (809) 
DEFERRED COMPENSATION AND BENEFIT PLAN TRUST 
DEFERRED COMPENSATION 
Balance at January 1 $ (367) $ (362) $ (412) 
Net reduction of ESOP debt and other 121 (5) 50 
BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31 (246) (367) (362) 
BENEFIT PLAN TRUST (COMMON STOCK)! 14,168 (240) 14,168 (240) 14,168 (240) 
BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31 14,168 $ (486) 14,168 $ (607) 14,168 $ (602) 
TREASURY STOCK AT COST! 
Balance at January 1 166,912 $ (5,124) 135,747 $ (3,317) 137,769 $ (3,374) 
Purchases 52,013 (3,029) 42,607 (2,122) 81 (3) 
Issuances — mainly employee benefit plans (8,935) 283 (11,442) 315 (2,103) 60 
BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31 209,990 $ (7,870) 166,912 $ (5,124) 135,747 $ (3,317) 
TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AT DECEMBER 31 $ 62,676 $ 45,230 $ 36,295 


' 2003 restated to reflect a two-for-one stock split effected as a 100 percent stock dividend in September 2004. 


2 Includes Unocal balances at December 31, 2005. 


See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 5/7 


NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


NOTE 1. 


SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
General Chevron manages its investments in and provides 
administrative, financial and management support to U.S. 
and foreign subsidiaries and affiliates that engage in fully 
integrated petroleum and chemicals operations. In addi- 
tion, Chevron holds investments in businesses involving 
power generation, geothermal production, and the mining 
of coal and other minerals. Collectively, these companies 
conduct business activities in approximately 180 countries. 
Exploration and production (upstream) operations consist of 
exploring for, developing and producing crude oil and natu- 
ral gas and also marketing natural gas. Refining, marketing 
and transportation (downstream) operations relate to refining 
crude oil into finished petroleum products; marketing crude 
oil, natural gas and the many products derived from petro- 
leum; and transporting crude oil, natural gas and petroleum 
products by pipeline, marine vessel, motor equipment and 
rail car. Chemical operations include the manufacture and 
marketing of commodity petrochemicals, plastics for indus- 
trial uses, and fuel and lubricant oil additives. 

The company’s Consolidated Financial Statements are 
prepared in accordance with accounting principles gener- 
ally accepted in the United States of America. These require 
the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the assets, 
liabilities, revenues and expenses reported in the financial 
statements, as well as amounts included in the notes thereto, 
including discussion and disclosure of contingent liabilities. 
Although the company uses its best estimates and judgments, 
actual results could differ from these estimates as future con- 
firming events occur. 

The nature of the company’s operations and the many 
countries in which it operates subject the company to changing 
economic, regulatory and political conditions. The company 
does not believe it is vulnerable to the risk of near-term severe 
impact as a result of any concentration of its activities. 


Subsidiary and Affiliated Companies The Consolidated Finan- 
cial Statements include the accounts of controlled subsidiary 
companies more than 50 percent owned and variable interest 
entities in which the company is the primary beneficiary. 
Undivided interests in oil and gas joint ventures and certain 
other assets are consolidated on a proportionate basis. Invest- 
ments in and advances to affiliates in which the company has 
a substantial ownership interest of approximately 20 percent 
to 50 percent or for which the company exercises significant 
influence but not control over policy decisions are accounted 
for by the equity method. As part of that accounting, the 
company recognizes gains and losses that arise from the issu- 
ance of stock by an affiliate that results in changes in the 
company’s proportionate share of the dollar amount of the 
affiliate’s equity currently in income. Deferred income taxes 
are provided for these gains and losses. 


58 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


Investments are assessed for possible impairment when 
events indicate that the fair value of the investment may be 
below the company’s carrying value. When such a condition 
is deemed to be other than temporary, the carrying value 
of the investment is written down to its fair value, and the 
amount of the write-down is included in net income. In 
making the determination as to whether a decline is other 
than temporary, the company considers such factors as the 
duration and extent of the decline, the investee’s financial 
performance, and the company’s ability and intention to 
retain its investment for a period that will be sufficient to 
allow for any anticipated recovery in the investment’s mar- 
ket value. The new cost basis of investments in these equity 
investees is not changed for subsequent recoveries in fair 
value. Subsequent recoveries in the carrying value of other 
investments are reported in “Other comprehensive income.” 

Differences between the company’s carrying value of an 
equity investment and its underlying equity in the net assets 
of the affiliate are assigned to the extent practicable to specific 
assets and liabilities based on the company’s analysis of the 
various factors giving rise to the difference. The company’s 
share of the affiliate’s reported earnings is adjusted quarterly 
when appropriate to reflect the difference between these allo- 
cated values and the affiliate’s historical book values. 


Derivatives The majority of the company’s activity in com- 
modity derivative instruments is intended to manage the 
financial risk posed by physical transactions. For some of 
this derivative activity, generally limited to large, discrete 

or infrequently occurring transactions, the company may 
elect to apply fair value or cash flow hedge accounting. For 
other similar derivative instruments, generally because of 
the short-term nature of the contracts or their limited use, 
the company does not apply hedge accounting, and changes 
in the fair value of those contracts are reflected in cur- 

rent income. For the company’s trading activity, gains and 
losses from the derivative instruments are reported in cur- 
rent income. For derivative instruments relating to foreign 
currency exposures, gains and losses are reported in cur- 
rent income. Interest rate swaps — hedging a portion of the 
company’s fixed-rate debt — are accounted for as fair value 
hedges, whereas interest rate swaps relating to a portion of 
the company’s floating-rate debt are recorded at fair value 
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, with resulting gains and 
losses reflected in income. 


Short-Term Investments All short-term investments are 
classified as available for sale and are in highly liquid 

debt securities. Those investments that are part of the 
company’s cash management portfolio and have original 
maturities of three months or less are reported as “Cash equiv- 
alents.” The balance of the short-term investments is reported 
as “Marketable securities” and are marked-to-market, with 


| NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT | | | 
ACCOUNTING POLICIES - Continued 


any unrealized gains or losses included in “Other compre- 
hensive income.” 


Inventories Crude oil, petroleum products and chemicals are 
generally stated at cost, using a Last-In, First-Out (LIFO) 
method. In the aggregate, these costs are below market. 
“Materials, supplies and other” inventories generally are 
stated at average cost. 


Properties, Plant and Equipment The successful efforts 
method is used for crude oil and natural gas exploration and 
production activities. All costs for development wells, related 
plant and equipment, proved mineral interests in crude oil 
and natural gas properties, and related asset retirement obli- 
gation (ARO) assets are capitalized. Costs of exploratory 
wells are capitalized pending determination of whether the 
wells found proved reserves. Costs of wells that are assigned 
proved reserves remain capitalized. Costs are also capitalized 
for exploratory wells that have found crude oil and natural 
gas reserves even if the reserves cannot be classified as proved 
when the drilling is completed, provided the exploratory well 
has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its comple- 
tion as a producing well and the company is making sufficient 
progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating 
viability of the project. All other exploratory wells and costs 
are expensed. Refer to Note 20, beginning on page 73, for 
additional discussion of accounting for suspended exploratory 
well costs. 

Long-lived assets to be held and used, including proved 
crude oil and natural gas properties, are assessed for pos- 
sible impairment by comparing their carrying values with 
their associated undiscounted future net before-tax cash 
flows. Events that can trigger assessments for possible impair- 
ments include write-downs of proved reserves based on field 
performance, significant decreases in the market value of 
an asset, significant change in the extent or manner of use 
of or a physical change in an asset, and a more-likely-than- 
not expectation that a long-lived asset or asset group will be 
sold or otherwise disposed of significantly sooner than the 
end of its previously estimated useful life. Impaired assets 
are written down to their estimated fair values, generally 
their discounted future net before-tax cash flows. For proved 
crude oil and natural gas properties in the United States, 
the company generally performs the impairment review on 
an individual field basis. Outside the United States, reviews 
are performed on a country, concession or field basis, as 
appropriate. In the refining, marketing, transportation and 
chemical areas, impairment reviews are generally done on 
the basis of a refinery, a plant, a marketing area or marketing 
assets by country. Impairment amounts are recorded as incre- 
mental “Depreciation, depletion and amortization” expense. 

Long-lived assets that are held for sale are evaluated for 
possible impairment by comparing the carrying value of the 


asset with its fair value less the cost to sell. If the net book 
value exceeds the fair value less cost to sell, the asset is consid- 
ered impaired and adjusted to the lower value. 

Effective January 1, 2003, the company implemented 
Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 143, 
‘Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (FAS 143),” in 
which the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obli- 
gation is recorded as an asset and a liability when there is a 
legal obligation associated with the retirement of a long-lived 
asset and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Refer also 
to Note 24, beginning on page 83, relating to asset retire- 
ment obligations, which includes additional information on 
the company’s adoption of FAS 143. 

Depreciation and depletion of all capitalized costs of 
proved crude oil and natural gas producing properties, except 
mineral interests, are expensed using the unit-of-production 
method by individual field as the proved developed reserves 
are produced. Depletion expenses for capitalized costs of 
proved mineral interests are recognized using the unit-of- 
production method by individual field as the related proved 
reserves are produced. Periodic valuation provisions for 
impairment of capitalized costs of unproved mineral interests 
are expensed. 

Depreciation and depletion expenses for coal assets 
are determined using the unit-ofproduction method as the 
proved reserves are produced. The capitalized costs of all 
other plant and equipment are depreciated or amortized over 
their estimated useful lives. In general, the declining-balance 
method is used to depreciate plant and equipment in the 
United States; the straight-line method generally is used to 
depreciate international plant and equipment and to amortize 
all capitalized leased assets. 

Gains or losses are not recognized for normal retirements 
of properties, plant and equipment subject to composite 
group amortization or depreciation. Gains or losses from 
abnormal retirements are recorded as expenses and from sales 
as “Other income.” 

Expenditures for maintenance, repairs and minor renew- 
als to maintain facilities in operating condition are generally 
expensed as incurred. Major replacements and renewals are 
capitalized. 


Goodwill Goodwill acquired in a business combination is not 
subject to amortization. As required by Financial Accounting 
Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 142, “Goodwill and 
Other Intangible Assets,” the company will test such goodwill 
at the reporting unit level for impairment on an annual basis 
and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances 
change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value 
of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The goodwill 
arising from the Unocal acquisition is described in more 
detail in Note 2, beginning on page 60. 


Environmental Expenditures Environmental expenditures that 
relate to ongoing operations or to conditions caused by past 
operations are expensed. Expenditures that create future ben- 
efits or contribute to future revenue generation are capitalized. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 59 


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT 
ACCOUNTING POLICIES - Continued 


Liabilities related to future remediation costs are recorded 
when environmental assessments or cleanups or both are 
probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. For the 
company’s U.S. and Canadian marketing facilities, the accrual 
is based in part on the probability that a future remediation 
commitment will be required. For crude oil, natural gas and 
coal producing properties, a liability for an asset retirement 
obligation is made, following FAS 143. Refer to Note 24, 
beginning on page 83, for a discussion of FAS 143. 

For federal Superfund sites and analogous sites under 
state laws, the company records a liability for its designated 
share of the probable and estimable costs and probable 
amounts for other potentially responsible parties when man- 
dated by the regulatory agencies because the other parties are 
not able to pay their respective shares. 

The gross amount of environmental liabilities is based 
on the company’s best estimate of future costs using currently 
available technology and applying current regulations and 
the company’s own internal environmental policies. Future 
amounts are not discounted. Recoveries or reimbursements 
are recorded as assets when receipt is reasonably assured. 


Currency Translation The U.S. dollar is the functional cur- 
rency for substantially all of the company’s consolidated 
operations and those of its equity affiliates. For those opera- 
tions, all gains and losses from currency translations are 
currently included in income. The cumulative translation 
effects for those few entities, both consolidated and affiliated, 
using functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar are 
included in the currency translation adjustment in “Stock- 
holders’ equity.” 


Revenue Recognition Revenues associated with sales of crude 
oil, natural gas, coal, petroleum and chemicals products and all 
other sources are recorded when title passes to the customer, net 
of royalties, discounts and allowances, as applicable. Revenues 
from natural gas production from properties in which Chevron 
has an interest with other producers are generally recognized 

on the basis of the company’s net working interest (entitlement 
method). Refer to Note 15, beginning on page 70, for a 
discussion of the accounting for buy/sell arrangements. 


Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation Effective 
July 1, 2005, the company adopted the provisions of Finan- 
cial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 
123R, “Share-Based Payment,” (FAS 123R) for its share-based 
compensation plans. The company previously accounted for 
these plans under the recognition and measurement prin- 
ciples of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, 
‘Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” (APB 25) and related 
interpretations and disclosure requirements established by 
FAS 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.” 


60 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


Refer to Note 22, beginning on page 78, for a descrip- 
tion of the company’s share-based compensation plans, 
information related to awards granted under those plans and 
additional information on the company’s adoption of FAS 123R. 

The following table illustrates the effect on net income 
and earnings per share as if the company had applied the 
fair-value recognition provisions of FAS 123 to stock options, 
stock appreciation rights, performance units and restricted 
stock units for periods prior to adoption of FAS 123R, and 
the actual effect on net income and earnings per share for 


periods after adoption of FAS 123R. 


Year ended December 31 
2005 2004 2003 


$14,099 | $ 13,328 $ 7,230 


Net income, as reported 

Add: Stock-based employee 
compensation expense included 
in reported net income, net of 
related tax effects! $ 81 | $ 42 $ 16 

Deduct: Total stock-based employee 
compensation expense determined 
under fair-valued-based method 
for awards, net of related 
tax effects)? $ (108)|$ (84 $ (41) 

$14,072 | $13,286 $ 7,205 


Pro forma net income 


Net income per share:>>4 
Basic — as reported $ 6.58 $ 6.30 $ 3.48 
Basic — pro forma $ 6.56 $ 6.28 $ 3.47 
Diluted — as reported $ 6.54 $ 6.28 $ 3.48 
Diluted — pro forma $ 6.53 $ 6.26 $ 3.47 


Periods prior to 2005 conformed to the 2005 presentation. 

? Fair value determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. 

3 Per-share amounts in all periods reflect a two-for-one stock split effected as a 100 per- 
cent stock dividend in September 2004. 

4The amounts in 2003 include a benefit of $0.08 for the company’s share of a capital 
stock transaction of its Dynegy Inc. affiliate, which under the applicable accounting 
rules was recorded directly to the company’s retained earnings and not included in net 
income for the period. 


NOTE 2. 


ACQUISITION OF UNOCAL CORPORATION 
On August 10, 2005, the company acquired Unocal Corpo- 


ration (Unocal), an independent oil and gas exploration and 
production company. Unocal’s principal upstream opera- 
tions are in North America and Asia, including the Caspian 
region. Also located in Asia are Unocal’s geothermal energy 
and electrical power businesses. Other activities include own- 
ership interests in proprietary and common carrier pipelines, 
natural gas storage facilities and mining operations. 

The aggregate purchase price of Unocal was approxi- 
mately $17,300, which included approximately $7,500 cash, 
169 million shares of Chevron common stock valued at or 
about $9,600, and $200 for stock options on approximately 
5 million shares and merger-related fees. The value of the com- 
mon shares was based on the average market price for a 5-day 
period beginning two days before the terms of the acquisition 
were finalized and announced on July 19, 2005. The issued 
shares represented approximately 7.5 percent of the number of 
shares outstanding immediately after the August 10 close. The 
value of the stock options at the acquisition date was deter- 
mined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. 

A third-party appraisal firm has been engaged to assist 
the company in the process of determining the fair values 


| NOTE 2. ACQUISITION OF UNOCAL CORPORATION - Continued | | | 


of Unocal’s tangible and intangible assets. Initial fair-value 
estimates were made in the third quarter 2005, and adjust- 
ments to those initial estimates were made in the fourth 
quarter. The company expects the valuation process will 

be finalized in the first half of 2006. Once completed, the 
associated deferred tax liabilities will also be adjusted. No 
significant intangible assets other than goodwill are included 
in the preliminary allocation of the purchase price in the 
table below. No in-process research and development assets 
were acquired. 

The acquisition was accounted for under the rules of 
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement 
No. 141, “Business Combinations.” The following table sum- 
marizes the preliminary allocation of the purchase price to 
Unocal’s assets and liabilities: 


At August 1, 2005 


Current assets $ 3,531 
Investments and long-term receivables 1,647 
Properties 17,288 
Goodwill 4,700 
Other assets 2,055 
Total assets acquired 29,221 
Current liabilities (2,365) 
Long-term debt and capital leases (2,392) 
Deferred income taxes (3,743) 
Other liabilities (3,435) 
Total liabilities assumed (11,935) 
Net assets acquired $ 17,286 


The $4,700 of goodwill is assigned to the upstream seg- 
ment. None of the goodwill is deductible for tax purposes. 
The goodwill represents benefits of the acquisition that are 
additional to the fair values of the other net assets acquired. 
The primary reasons for the acquisition and the principal fac- 
tors that contributed to a Unocal purchase price that resulted 
in the recognition of goodwill were as follows: 

¢ The “going concern” element of the Unocal businesses, 

which presents the opportunity to earn a higher rate 
of return on the assembled collection of net assets 
than would be expected if those assets were acquired 
separately. These benefits include upstream growth 
opportunities in the Asia-Pacific, Gulf of Mexico and 
Caspian regions. Some of these areas contain operations 
that are complementary to Chevron’s, and the acquisi- 
tion is consistent with Chevron’s long-term strategies to 
grow profitability in its core upstream areas, build new 
legacy positions and commercialize the company’s large 
undeveloped natural gas resource base. 


Cost savings that can be obtained through the cap- 
ture of operational synergies. The opportunities for 
cost savings include the elimination of duplicate 
facilities and services, high-grading of investment 
opportunities in the combined portfolio and the shar- 
ing of best practices of the two companies. 


Goodwill recorded in the acquisition is not subject to 
amortization, but will be tested periodically for impairment 
as required by FASB Statement No. 142, “Goodwill and 
Other Intangible Assets.” 

The following unaudited pro forma summary presents 
the results of operations as if the acquisition of Unocal had 
occurred at the beginning of each period: 


Year ended December 31 
2005 2004 


$ 198,762 | $158,471 


Sales and other operating revenues 


Net income 14,967 14,164 
Net income per share of common stock 
Basic $ 6.68 $ 6.22 
Diluted $ 6.64 $ 6.19 


The pro forma summary uses estimates and assumptions 
based on information available at the time. Management 
believes the estimates and assumptions to be reasonable; 
however, actual results may differ significantly from this pro 
forma financial information. The pro forma information does 
not reflect any synergistic savings that might be achieved from 
combining the operations and is not intended to reflect the 
actual results that would have occurred had the companies 
actually been combined during the periods presented. 


NOTE 3. 


INFORMATION RELATING TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT 
OF CASH FLOWS 


Year ended December 31 
2005 2004 2003 


Net (increase) decrease in operating working 
capital was composed of the following: 

Increase in accounts and 

$ (3,164) | $ (2,515) $ (265) 

(298) 115 


notes receivable 
(Increase) decrease in inventories (968) 
(Increase) decrease in prepaid 

expenses and other current assets (54) (76) 261 
Increase in accounts payable and 

accrued liabilities 3,851 2,175 242 
Increase (decrease) in income and 

other taxes payable 281 1,144 (191) 
Net (increase) decrease in operating 


working capital $ (54)| $ 430 
Net cash provided by operating 


activities includes the following 
cash payments for interest and 
income taxes: 

Interest paid on debt 

$ 455 | $ 422 

$ 8,875 


$ 467 
$ 5,316 


(net of capitalized interest) 
Income taxes 
Net (purchases) sales of 
marketable securities consisted 
of the following gross amounts: 
Marketable securities purchased $ (918) |) $ (1,951)  $ (3,563) 
Marketable securities sold 1,254 1,501 3,716 
Net sales (purchases) of 
marketable securities 


$ 336 | $ (450) $ 153 


The 2005 “Net increase in operating working capital” 
included a reduction of $20 for excess income tax benefits 
associated with stock options exercised since July 1, 2005, in 
accordance with the cash-flows classification requirements of 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 61 


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


NOTE 3. INFORMATION RELATING TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS- Continued 


FAS 123R, “Share-Based Payment.” This amount was offset 
by an equal amount in “Net purchases of treasury shares.” 
Refer to Note 22, beginning on page 78, for additional infor- 
mation related to the company’s adoption of FAS 123R. 

The “Net (purchases) sales of treasury shares” in 2005 
and 2004 included purchases of $3,029 and $2,122, respec- 
tively, related to the company’s common stock repurchase 
programs and share-based compensation plans, which were 
partially offset by the issuance of shares for the exercise of 
stock options. 

The 2003 “Net cash provided by operating activities” 
included an $890 “Decrease in other deferred charges” and 
a decrease of the same amount in “Other” related to balance 
sheet netting of certain pension-related asset and liability 
accounts, in accordance with the requirements of Financial 
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 87, 
“Employers Accounting for Pensions.” 

The “cash portion of Unocal acquisition, net of Unocal 
cash received” represents the purchase price, net of $1,600 
of cash received. The aggregate purchase price of Unocal was 
$17,300. Refer to Note 2 starting on page 60 for additional 
discussion of the Unocal acquisition. 

The major components of “Capital expenditures” and 
the reconciliation of this amount to the reported capital and 
exploratory expenditures, including equity affiliates, presented 
in Management’s Discussion and Analysis, beginning on 
page 38, are presented in the following table: 


Year ended December 31 
2005 2004 2003 
Additions to properties, plant 
and equipment! $ 8,154 | $5,798 — $ 4,953 
Additions to investments 459 303 687 
Current-year dry hole expenditures 198 228 132 
Payments for other liabilities 
and assets, net (110) (19) (147) 
Capital expenditures 8,701 6,310 5,625 
Expensed exploration expenditures 517 412 315 
Assets acquired through capital 
lease obligations and other 
financing obligations 164 31 2867 
Capital and exploratory expenditures, 
excluding equity affiliates 9,382 6,753 6,226 
Equity in affiliates’ expenditures 1,681 1,562 1,437 
Capital and exploratory expenditures, 
including equity affiliates $11,063 | $8,315  $ 7,363 
' Net of noncash additions of $435 in 2005, $212 in 2004 and $1,183 in 2003. 
? Includes deferred payment of $210 related to the 1993 acquisition of the company’s inter- 
est in the Tengizchevroil joint venture. 


NOTE 4. 

SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL DATA - CHEVRON U.S.A. INC. 
Chevron U.S.A. Inc. (CUSA) is a major subsidiary of 
Chevron Corporation. CUSA and its subsidiaries manage 
and operate most of Chevron’s U.S. businesses. Assets include 
those related to the exploration and production of crude oil, 


62 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


natural gas and natural gas liquids and those associated with 
the refining, marketing, supply and distribution of products 
derived from petroleum, other than natural gas liquids, exclud- 
ing most of the regulated pipeline operations of Chevron. 
CUSA also holds Chevron’s investments in the Chevron Phil- 
lips Chemical Company LLC (CPChem) joint venture and 
Dynegy Inc. (Dynegy), which are accounted for using the 
equity method. 

During 2003, Chevron implemented legal reorganiza- 
tions in which certain Chevron subsidiaries transferred 
assets to or under CUSA and other Chevron companies were 
merged with and into CUSA. The summarized financial 
information for CUSA and its consolidated subsidiaries pre- 
sented in the following table gives retroactive effect to the 
reorganizations, with all periods presented as if the compa- 
nies had always been combined and the reorganizations had 
occurred on January 1, 2003. However, the financial informa- 
tion included in this table may not reflect the financial 
position and operating results in the future or the historical 
results in the periods presented had the reorganizations actu- 
ally occurred on January 1, 2003. 


Year ended December 31 


2005 2004 2003 


Sales and other operating 
$ 138,296 | $108,351 $82,760 
132,180 102,180 78,399 


revenues 
Total costs and other deductions 


Net income* 4,693 4,773 3,083 


*2003 net income includes a charge of $323 for the cumulative effect of changes in 
accounting principles. 


At December 31 
2005 2004 


Current assets $ 27,878 | $23,147 
Other assets 20,611 19,961 
Current liabilities 20,286 17,044 
Other liabilities 12,897 12,533 
Net equity 15,306 13,531 
Memo: Total debt $ 8,353 $ 8,349 


NOTE 5. 


SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL DATA - CHEVRON TRANSPORT 
CORPORATION LTD. 


Chevron Transport Corporation Ltd. (CTC), incorporated in 
Bermuda, is an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Chevron 
Corporation. CTC is the principal operator of Chevron’s 
international tanker fleet and is engaged in the marine 
transportation of crude oil and refined petroleum products. 
Most of CTC’s shipping revenue is derived from providing 
transportation services to other Chevron companies. Chevron 
Corporation has guaranteed this subsidiary’s obligations in 
connection with certain debt securities issued by a third party. 
Summarized financial information for CTC and its consoli- 
dated subsidiaries is presented in the following table: 


| NOTE 5. SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL DATA - CHEVRON | | | 
TRANSPORT CORPORATION LTD. - Continued 


Year ended December 31 


2005 2004 2003 

Sales and other operating revenues $ 640 $ 660 $601 
Total costs and other deductions 509 495 535 
Net income 113 160 50 
At December 31 

2005 2004 

Current assets $ 358 $ 292 
Other assets 283 219 
Current liabilities 119 67 
Other liabilities 243 278 
Net equity 279 166 


There were no restrictions on CTC’s ability to pay divi- 
dends or make loans or advances at December 31, 2005. 


NOTE 6. 


STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 

Retained earnings at December 31, 2005 and 2004, included 
approximately $5,000 and $3,950, respectively, for the com- 
pany’s share of undistributed earnings of equity affiliates. 

At December 31, 2005, about 142 million shares of Chev- 
ron’s common stock remained available for issuance from the 
160 million shares that were reserved for issuance under the 
Chevron Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), as 
amended and restated, which was approved by the stockhold- 
ers in 2004. In addition, approximately 561 thousand shares 
remain available for issuance from the 800 thousand shares of 
the company’s common stock that were reserved for awards 
under the Chevron Corporation Non-Employee Directors’ 
Equity Compensation and Deferral Plan (Non-Employee 
Directors’ Plan), which was approved by stockholders in 2003. 
Refer to Note 26, on page 86, for a discussion of the compa- 
ny’s common stock split in 2004. 


NOTE 7. 


FINANCIAL AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 

Commodity Derivative Instruments Chevron is exposed to mar- 
ket risks related to price volatility of crude oil, refined products, 
natural gas, natural gas liquids and refinery feedstocks. 

The company uses derivative commodity instruments to 
manage these exposures on a portion of its activity, includ- 
ing: firm commitments and anticipated transactions for the 
purchase or sale of crude oil; feedstock purchases for company 
refineries; crude oil and refined products inventories; and 
fixed-price contracts to sell natural gas and natural gas liquids. 
The company also uses derivative commodity instruments for 
limited trading purposes. 

The company uses International Swaps Dealers Associa- 
tion agreements to govern derivative contracts with certain 
counterparties to mitigate credit risk. Depending on the 
nature of the derivative transactions, bilateral collateral 
arrangements may also be required. When the company is 


engaged in more than one outstanding derivative transaction 
with the same counterparty and also has a legally enforceable 
netting agreement with that counterparty, the net marked- 
to-market exposure represents the netting of the positive and 
negative exposures with that counterparty and is a reason- 
able measure of the company’s credit risk exposure. The 
company also uses other netting agreements with certain 
counterparties with which it conducts significant transactions 
to mitigate credit risk. 

The fair values of the outstanding contracts are reported 
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as “Accounts and notes 
receivable,” “Accounts payable,” “Long-term receivables — net” 
and “Deferred credits and other noncurrent obligations.” 
Gains and losses on the company’s risk management activi- 
ties are reported as either “Sales and other operating revenues” 
or “Purchased crude oil and products,” whereas trading gains 
and losses are reported as “Other income.” These activities 
are reported under “Operating activities” in the Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flows. 


Foreign Currency The company enters into forward exchange 
contracts, generally with terms of 180 days or less, to man- 
age some of its foreign currency exposures. These exposures 
include revenue and anticipated purchase transactions, 
including foreign currency capital expenditures and lease com- 
mitments, forecasted to occur within 180 days. The forward 
exchange contracts are recorded at fair value on the balance 
sheet with resulting gains and losses reflected in income. 

The fair values of the outstanding contracts are reported 
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as “Accounts and notes 
receivable” or “Accounts payable,” with gains and losses 
reported as “Other income.” These activities are reported 
under “Operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement 


of Cash Flows. 


Interest Rates The company enters into interest rate swaps as 
part of its overall strategy to manage the interest rate risk on 
its debt. Under the terms of the swaps, net cash settlements 
are based on the difference between fixed-rate and float- 
ing-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to agreed 
notional principal amounts. Interest rate swaps related to a 
portion of the company’s fixed-rate debt are accounted for 
as fair value hedges, whereas interest rate swaps related to a 
portion of the company’s floating-rate debt are recorded at 
fair value on the balance sheet with resulting gains and losses 
reflected in income. 

Fair values of the interest rate swaps are reported on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet as “Accounts and notes receiv- 
able” or “Accounts payable,” with gains and losses reported 
directly in income as part of “Interest and debt expense.” 
These activities are reported under “Operating activities” in 
the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 


Fair Value Fair values are derived either from quoted market 
prices or, if not available, the present value of the expected cash 
flows. The fair values reflect the cash that would have been 
received or paid if the instruments were settled at year-end. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 63 


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


NOTE 7. FINANCIAL AND DERIVATIVE 
INSTRUMENTS - Continued 


Long-term debt of $7,424 and $5,815 had estimated 
fair values of $7,945 and $6,444 at December 31, 2005 and 
2004, respectively. 

For interest rate swaps, the notional principal amounts 
of $1,400 and $1,665 had estimated fair values of $(10) and 
$36 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 

The company holds cash equivalents and U.S. dollar 
marketable securities in domestic and offshore portfolios. 
Eurodollar bonds, floating-rate notes, time deposits and 
commercial paper are the primary instruments held. Cash 
equivalents and marketable securities had fair values of $8,995 
and $8,789 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Of 
these balances, $7,894 and $7,338 at the respective year-ends 
were classified as cash equivalents that had average maturities 
under 90 days. The remainder, classified as marketable securi- 
ties, had average maturities of approximately 2 years. 

For the financial and derivative instruments discussed 
above, there was not a material change in market risk from 
that presented in 2004. 


Concentrations of Credit Risk The company’s financial 
instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk 
consist primarily of its cash equivalents, marketable securi- 
ties, derivative financial instruments and trade receivables. 
The company’s short-term investments are placed with a wide 
array of financial institutions with high credit ratings. This 
diversified investment policy limits the company’s exposure 
both to credit risk and to concentrations of credit risk. Similar 
standards of diversity and creditworthiness are applied to the 
company’s counterparties in derivative instruments. 

The trade receivable balances, reflecting the company’s 
diversified sources of revenue, are dispersed among the 
company’s broad customer base worldwide. As a consequence, 
concentrations of credit risk are limited. The company 
routinely assesses the financial strength of its customers. 
When the financial strength of a customer is not considered 
sufficient, requiring Letters of Credit is a principal method 
used to support sales to customers. 


Investment in Dynegy Preferred Stock At December 31, 2005, 
the company held an investment in $400 face value of 
Dynegy Series C Convertible Preferred Stock, with a stated 
maturity date of 2033. The stock was recorded at its fair 
value, which was estimated to be $360 at the end of 2005. 
Temporary changes in the estimated fair value of 
the preferred stock are reported in “Other comprehensive 
income.” However, if any future decline in fair value is 
deemed to be other than temporary, a charge against income 
in the period would be recorded. Dividends payable on the 
preferred stock are recognized in income each period. 


64 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


NOTE 8. 


OPERATING SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA 

Although each subsidiary of Chevron is responsible for its 
own affairs, Chevron Corporation manages its investments 

in these subsidiaries and their affiliates. For this purpose, 
the investments are grouped as follows: upstream — explora- 
tion and production; downstream — refining, marketing and 
transportation; chemicals; and all other. The first three of 
these groupings represent the company’s “reportable segments” 
and “operating segments” as defined in FAS 131, “Disclosures 
About Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.” 

The segments are separately managed for investment 
purposes under a structure that includes “segment managers” 
who report to the company’s “chief operating decision maker” 
(CODM) (terms as defined in FAS 131). The CODM is 
the company’s Executive Committee, a committee of senior 
officers that includes the Chief Executive Officer and that, in 
turn, reports to the Board of Directors of Chevron Corporation. 

The operating segments represent components of the 
company as described in FAS 131 terms that engage in activi- 
ties (a) from which revenues are earned and expenses are 
incurred; (b) whose operating results are regularly reviewed 
by the CODM, which makes decisions about resources to be 
allocated to the segments and to assess their performance; 
and (c) for which discrete financial information is available. 

Segment managers for the reportable segments are directly 
accountable to and maintain regular contact with the compa- 
ny’s CODM to discuss the segment’s operating activities and 
financial performance. The CODM approves annual capital 
and exploratory budgets at the reportable segment level, as well 
as reviews capital and exploratory funding for major projects 
and approves major changes to the annual capital and explor- 
atory budgets. However, business-unit managers within the 
operating segments are directly responsible for decisions relat- 
ing to project implementation and all other matters connected 
with daily operations. Company officers who are members of 
the Executive Committee also have individual management 
responsibilities and participate in other committees for pur- 
poses other than acting as the CODM. 

“All Other” activities include the company’s interest in 
Dynegy, mining operations of coal and other minerals, power 
generation businesses, worldwide cash management and debt 
financing activities, corporate administrative functions, insur- 
ance operations, real estate activities, and technology companies. 

The company’s primary country of operation is the 
United States of America, its country of domicile. Other 
components of the company’s operations are reported as 
“International” (outside the United States). 


Segment Earnings The company evaluates the performance of 
its operating segments on an after-tax basis, without consider- 
ing the effects of debt financing interest expense or investment 
interest income, both of which are managed by the company 
on a worldwide basis. Corporate administrative costs and 
assets are not allocated to the operating segments. However, 
operating segments are billed for the direct use of corporate 
services. Nonbillable costs remain at the corporate level in 


| NOTE 8. OPERATING SEGMENTS AND | | | 
GEOGRAPHIC DATA - Continued 


“All Other.” After-tax segment income (loss) from continuing 
operations is presented in the following table: 


Year ended December 31 
2005 2004 2003 
Income From Continuing Operations 
Upstream — Exploration and 
Production 
United States $ 4,168 | $ 3,868 $ 3,160 
International 7,556 5,622 3,199 
Total Upstream 11,724 9,490 6,359 
Downstream — Refining, Marketing 
and Transportation 
United States 980 1,261 482 
International 1,786 1,989 685 
Total Downstream 2,766 3,250 1,167 
Chemicals 
United States 240 251 5 
International 58 63 64 
Total Chemicals 298 314 69 
Total Segment Income 14,788 13,054 7,595 
All Other 
Interest expense (337) (257) (352) 
Interest income 266 129 75 
Other (618) 108 64 
Income From Continuing Operations 14,099 13,034 7,382 
Income From Discontinued Operations - 294 44 
Cumulative effect of changes in 
accounting principles - - (196) 
Net Income $14,099 | $13,328 $ 7,230 


Segment Assets Segment assets do not include intercompany 
investments or intercompany receivables. Segment assets at 


year-end 2005 and 2004 follow: 


At December 31 


2005 2004 
Upstream — Exploration and Production 
United States $ 19,006 | $ 11,869 
International 46,501 31,239 
Goodwill 4,636 - 
Total Upstream 70,143 43,108 
Downstream — Refining, Marketing and 

Transportation 

United States 12,273 10,091 
International 22,294 19,415 
Total Downstream 34,567 29,506 
Chemicals 
United States 2,452 2,316 
International 727 667 
Total Chemicals 3,179 2,983 
Total Segment Assets 107,889 75,597 
All Other* 
United States 9,234 11,746 
International 8,710 5,865 
Total All Other 17,944 17,611 
Total Assets — United States 42,965 36,022 
Total Assets — International 78,232 57,186 
Goodwill 4,636 - 
Total Assets $ 125,833 | $93,208 


* All Other assets consist primarily of worldwide cash, cash equivalents and marketable 
securities, real estate, information systems, the company’s investment in Dynegy, mining 
operations of coal and other minerals, power generation businesses, technology compa- 
nies, and assets of the corporate administrative functions. 


Segment Sales and Other Operating Revenues Operating seg- 
ment sales and other operating revenues, including internal 
transfers, for the years 2005, 2004 and 2003 are presented 
in the following table. Products are transferred between 
operating segments at internal product values that approxi- 
mate market prices. 

Revenues for the upstream segment are derived primarily 
from the production and sale of crude oil and natural gas, as 
well as the sale of third-party production of natural gas. Rev- 
enues for the downstream segment are derived from the 
refining and marketing of petroleum products, such as gaso- 
line, jet fuel, gas oils, kerosene, lubricants, residual fuel oils 
and other products derived from crude oil. This segment 
also generates revenues from the transportation and trading 
of crude oil and refined products. Revenues for the chemicals 
segment are derived primarily from the manufacture and sale 
of additives for lubricants and fuel. “All Other” activities 
include revenues from mining operations of coal and other 
minerals, power generation businesses, insurance operations, 
real estate activities and technology companies. 

Other than the United States, the only country in which 
Chevron recorded significant revenues was the United 
Kingdom, with revenues of $15,296, $13,985 and $12,121 in 
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 65 


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


NOTE 8. OPERATING SEGMENTS AND 
GEOGRAPHIC DATA - Continued 


Year ended December 31 


2005 2004 2003 
Upstream — Exploration and 
Production 
United States $ 16,044 |$ 8,242 $ 6,842 
Intersegment 8,651 8,121 6,295 
Total United States 24,695 16,363 13,137 
International 10,190 7,246 7,013 
Intersegment 13,652 10,184 8,142 
Total International 23,842 17,430 15,155 
Total Upstream 48,537 33,793 28,292 


Downstream — Refining, 
Marketing and Transportation 


United States 735721 57,723 44,701 
Excise taxes 4,521 4,147 3,744 
Intersegment 535 179 225 
Total United States 78,777 62,049 48,670 

International 83,223 67,944 52,486 
Excise taxes 4,184 3,810 3,342 
Intersegment 14 87 46 
Total International 87,421 71,841 55,874 

Total Downstream 166,198 133,890 104,544 

Chemicals 

United States 343 347 323 
Intersegment 241 188 129 
Total United States 584 535 452 

International 760 747 677 
Excise taxes 14 11 9 
Intersegment 131 107 83 
Total International 905 865 769 

Total Chemicals 1,489 1,400 1,221 

All Other 

United States 597 551 338 
Intersegment 514 431 121 
Total United States 1,111 982 459 

International 44 97 100 
Intersegment 26 16 4 
Total International 70 113 104 

Total All Other 1,181 1,095 563 

Segment Sales and Other 


Operating Revenues 
United States 
International 
Total Segment Sales and Other 
Operating Revenues 


105,167 79,929 62,718 
112,238 90,249 71,902 


217,405 
(23,764) 


170,178 
(19,313) 


134,620 
Elimination of intersegment sales (15,045) 


Total Sales and Other 
Operating Revenues* 


$ 193,641 | $150,865 $119,575 


*Includes buy/sell contracts of $23,822 in 2005, $18,650 in 2004 and $14,246 in 2003. 
Substantially all of the amounts in each period relates to the downstream segment. Refer to 
Note 15, beginning on page 70, for a discussion of the company’s accounting for buy/sell 
contracts. 


66 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


Segment Income Taxes Segment income tax expenses for the 
years 2005, 2004 and 2003 are as follows: 


Year ended December 31 


2005 2004 2003! 

Upstream — Exploration and 

Production 
United States $ 2,330 $ 2,308 $ 1,853 
International 8,440 5,041 3,831 
Total Upstream 10,770 7,349 5,684 
Downstream — Refining, 

Marketing and Transportation 
United States 575 739 300 
International 576 442 275 
Total Downstream 1,151 1,181 575 
Chemicals 
United States 99 47 (25) 
International 25 17 6 
Total Chemicals 124 64 (19) 
All Other (947) (1,077) (946) 
Income Tax Expense From 

Continuing Operations” $11,098 | $7,517  $ 5,294 


! See Note 24, beginning on page 83, for information concerning the cumulative effect of 
changes in accounting principles due to the adoption of FAS 143, “Accounting for Asset 
Retirement Obligations.” 

2 Income tax expense of $100 and $50 related to discontinued operations for 2004 and 
2003, respectively, is not included. 


Other Segment Information Additional information for 

the segmentation of major equity affiliates is contained in 
Note 13, beginning on page 68. Information related to proper- 
ties, plant and equipment by segment is contained in Note 14, 
on page 70. 


NOTE 9. 


LITIGATION 

Chevron and many other companies in the petroleum industry 
have used methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) as a gasoline 
additive. Chevron is a party to more than 70 lawsuits and 
claims, the majority of which involve numerous other petro- 
leum marketers and refiners, related to the use of MTBE in 
certain oxygenated gasolines and the alleged seepage of MTBE 
into groundwater. Resolution of these actions may ultimately 
require the company to correct or ameliorate the alleged effects 
on the environment of prior release of MTBE by the company 
or other parties. Additional lawsuits and claims related to the 
use of MTBE, including personal-injury claims, may be filed in 
the future. 

The company’s ultimate exposure related to these lawsuits 
and claims is not currently determinable, but could be material 
to net income in any one period. The company does not use 
MTBE in the manufacture of gasoline in the United States. 


NOTE 10. 


LEASE COMMITMENTS 

Certain noncancelable leases are classified as capital leases, 
and the leased assets are included as part of “Properties, plant 
and equipment, at cost.” Such leasing arrangements involve 
tanker charters, crude oil production and processing equip- 
ment, service stations, and other facilities. Other leases are 
classified as operating leases and are not capitalized. The pay- 


| NOTE 10. LEASE COMMITMENTS - Continued | | | 


ments on such leases are recorded as expense. Details of the 
capitalized leased assets are as follows: 


At December 31 

2005 2004 

Exploration and Production $ 442 $ 277 
Refining, Marketing and Transportation 837 842 
Total 1,279 1,119 
Less: Accumulated amortization 745 690 
Net capitalized leased assets $ 534 | $ 429 


Rental expenses incurred for operating leases during 
2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: 


Year ended December 31 

2005 2004 2003 

Minimum rentals $ 2,102 $ 2,093 $ 1,567 
Contingent rentals 6 7 3 
Total 2,108 2,100 1,570 
Less: Sublease rental income 43 40 48 
Net rental expense $2,065 | $2,060 $ 1,522 


Contingent rentals are based on factors other than the 
passage of time, principally sales volumes at leased service 
stations. Certain leases include escalation clauses for adjust- 
ing rentals to reflect changes in price indices, renewal 
options ranging up to 25 years, and options to purchase the 
leased property during or at the end of the initial or renewal 
lease period for the fair market value or other specified 
amount at that time. 

At December 31, 2005, the estimated future minimum 
lease payments (net of noncancelable sublease rentals) under 
operating and capital leases, which at inception had a non- 
cancelable term of more than one year, were as follows: 


At December 31 
Operating Capital 
Leases Leases 
Year: 2006 $ 507 $ 106 
2007 444 87 
2008 401 76 
2009 349 77 
2010 284 58 
Thereafter 932 564 
Total $ 2,917 $ 968 
Less: Amounts representing interest 
and executory costs (277) 
Net present values 691 
Less: Capital lease obligations 
included in short-term debt (367) 
Long-term capital lease obligations $ 324 


NOTE 11. 


RESTRUCTURING AND REORGANIZATION COSTS 

In connection with the Unocal acquisition, the company 
implemented a restructuring and reorganization program as 
part of the effort to capture the synergies of the combined 
companies. The program is expected to be substantially 
completed by the end of 2006 and is aimed at eliminating 
redundant operations, consolidating offices and facilities, and 
sharing common services and functions. 

As part of the restructuring and reorganization, approxi- 
mately 700 positions have been preliminarily identified for 
elimination. Most of the positions are in the United States 
and relate primarily to corporate and upstream executive and 
administrative functions. By year-end 2005, approximately 
250 of these employees had been terminated. 

An accrual of $106 was established as part of the 
purchase-price allocation for Unocal. Payments against the 
accrual in 2005 were $62. The balance at year-end 2005 was 
classified as a current liability on the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet. Adjustments to the accrual may occur in future peri- 
ods as the implementation plans are finalized and estimates 


are refined. 

Amounts before tax 2005 
Balance at August 1 $106 
Payments (62) 


Balance at December 31 $ 44 


As a result of various other reorganizations and 
restructurings across several businesses and corporate depart- 
ments, the company recorded before-tax charges of $258 
($146 after tax) during 2003 for estimated termination 
benefits for approximately 4,500 employees. Nearly half 
of the liability related to the global downstream segment. 
Substantially all of the employee reductions had occurred 
by early 2006. 

Activity for the company’s liability related to these other 
reorganizations and restructurings is summarized in the fol- 
lowing table: 


Amounts before tax 2005 2004 
Balance at January 1 $119 $ 240 
Additions/adjustments (10) 27 
Payments (62) (148) 
Balance at December 31 $ 47 $ 119 


At December 31, 2005, the amount was classified as a 
current liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the 
associated charges or credits during the period were categorized 
as “Operating expenses” or “Selling, general and administrative 
expenses” on the Consolidated Statement of Income. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 67 


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


NOTE 12. 


ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 
At December 31, 2004, the company classified $162 of net 
properties, plant and equipment as “Assets held for sale” on 
the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Assets in this category related 
to a group of service stations outside the United States. 

Summarized income statement information relating to 
discontinued operations is as follows: 


Year ended December 31 

2005 2004 2003 

Revenues and other income $ - $ 635 $ 485 
Income from discontinued operations 

before income tax expense - 394 94 
Income from discontinued operations, 

net of tax - 294 44 


Not all assets sold or to be disposed of are classified as dis- 
continued operations, mainly because the cash flows from the 
assets were not, or will not be, eliminated from the ongoing 
operations of the company. 


68 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


NOTE 13. 


INVESTMENTS AND ADVANCES 
Equity in earnings, together with investments in and 
advances to companies accounted for using the equity 
method and other investments accounted for at or below 
cost, are as follows: 
Investments and Advances Equity in Earnings 
AtDecember 31 Year ended December 31 
2005 =—-2004. += 2005-2004 ~— 2003 


Upstream — Exploration 
and Production 


Tengizchevroil $ 5,007 $ 4,725|$1,514 $ 950$ 611 
Hamaca 1,189 836 390 98 45 
Other 679 341 139 148 155 
Total Upstream 6,875 5,902} 2,043 1,196 811 


Downstream — Refining, 
Marketing and Transportation 
GS Caltex Corporation 1,984 1,820 320 296 107 
Caspian Pipeline Consortium 1,014 
Star Petroleum Refining 


Company Ltd. 709 663 81 207 8 
Caltex Australia Ltd. 435 263 214 173 13 
Colonial Pipeline Company 565 - 13 7 = 
Other 1,562 1,125 2/3 143 100 
Total Downstream 6,269 4,910} 1,002 959 280 

Chemicals 
Chevron Phillips Chemical 

Company LLC 1,908 — 1,896 449 334 24 
Other 20 19 3 2 1 
Total Chemicals 1,928 1,915 452 336 25 

All Other 
Dynegy Inc. 682 525 189 86 (56) 
Other 740 601 45 5 (31) 
Total equity method $ 16,494 $13,853)$ 3,731 $2,582 $1,029 


Other at or below cost 563 536 


Total investments and 


$17,057 $14,389 
$ 4,624 $ 3,788|/$ 833 $ 588 $ 175 
$ 12,433 $10,601)$ 2,898 $1,994 $ 854 


advances 
Total United States 
Total International 


Descriptions of major affiliates are as follows: 
Tengizchevroil Chevron has a 50 percent equity ownership 
interest in Tengizchevroil (TCO), a joint venture formed in 
1993 to develop the Tengiz and Korolev crude oil fields in 
Kazakhstan over a 40-year period. 


Hamaca Chevron has a 30 percent interest in the Hamaca 
heavy oil production and upgrading project located in Vene- 
zuela’s Orinoco Belt. 


GS Caltex Corporation Chevron owns 50 percent of GS Caltex 
(formerly LG Caltex Oil Corporation), a joint venture with GS 
Holdings. The joint venture, originally formed in 1967 between 
the LG Group and Caltex, imports, refines and markets petro- 
leum products and petrochemicals in South Korea. 


Caspian Pipeline Consortium Chevron has a 15 percent 
interest in the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, which provides 
the critical export route for crude oil both from TCO and 
Karachaganak. 


| NOTE 13. INVESTMENTS AND ADVANCES - Continued | | | 


Star Petroleum Refining Company Ltd. Chevron has a 64 per- 
cent equity ownership interest in Star Petroleum Refining 
Company Limited (SPRC), which owns the Star Refinery 
at Map Ta Phut, Thailand. The Petroleum Authority of 
Thailand owns the remaining 36 percent of SPRC. 


Caltex Australia Ltd. Chevron has a 50 percent equity 
ownership interest in Caltex Australia Limited (CAL). 

The remaining 50 percent of CAL is publicly owned. At 
December 31, 2005, the fair value of Chevron’s share of 
CAL common stock was approximately $1,900. The aggre- 
gate carrying value of the company’s investment in CAL was 
approximately $70 lower than the amount of underlying 
equity in CAL net assets. 


Colonial Pipeline Company Chevron owns an approximate 
23 percent equity interest as a result of the Unocal acquisition. 
The Colonial Pipeline system runs from Texas to New Jersey 
and transports petroleum products in a 13-state market. 


Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC Chevron owns 

50 percent of CPChem, formed in 2000 when Chevron 
merged most of its petrochemicals businesses with those of 
Phillips Petroleum Company (now ConocoPhillips Corpora- 
tion). At December 31, 2005, the company’s carrying value 
of its investment in CPChem was approximately $100 lower 
than the amount of underlying equity in CPChem’s net assets. 


Dynegy Inc. Chevron owns an approximate 24 percent equity 
interest in the common stock of Dynegy, a provider of electricity 
to markets and customers throughout the United States. The 
company also holds investments in Dynegy preferred stock. 


Investment in Dynegy Common Stock At December 31, 
2005, the carrying value of the company’s investment in 
Dynegy common stock was approximately $300. This 
amount was about $200 below the company’s propor- 
tionate interest in Dynegy’s underlying net assets. This 
difference is primarily the result of write-downs of the 
investment in 2002 for declines in the market value of the 
common shares below the company’s carrying value that were 
deemed to be other than temporary. This difference has been 
assigned to the extent practicable to specific Dynegy assets 
and liabilities, based upon the company’s analysis of the vari- 
ous factors contributing to the decline in value of the Dynegy 
shares. The company’s equity share of Dynegy’s reported 
earnings is adjusted quarterly when appropriate to reflect 
the difference between these allocated values and Dynegy’s 
historical book values. The market value of the company’s 
investment in Dynegy’s common stock at December 31, 
2005, was approximately $470. 

Investment in Dynegy Preferred Stock Refer to Note 7, 
beginning on page 63, for a discussion of this investment. 


Other Information “Sales and other operating revenues” 

on the Consolidated Statement of Income includes $8,824, 
$7,933 and $6,308 with affiliated companies for 2005, 2004 
and 2003, respectively. “Purchased crude oil and products” 
includes $3,219, $2,548 and $1,740 with affiliated companies 
for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 

“Accounts and notes receivable” on the Consolidated Bal- 
ance Sheet includes $1,729 and $1,188 due from affiliated 
companies at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 
“Accounts payable” includes $249 and $192 due to affiliated 
companies at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 

The following table provides summarized financial infor- 
mation on a 100 percent basis for all equity affiliates as well 
as Chevron’s total share. 


Affiliates Chevron Share 
Year ended December 31 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 
Total revenues $ 64,642 $ 55,152 $ 42,323 $ 31,252 $ 25,916 $19,467 
Income before income tax expense 7,883 5,309 1,657 4,165 3,015 1,211 
Net income 6,645 4,441 1,508 3,534 2,582 1,029 
At December 31 
Current assets $ 19,903 $ 16,506 $ 12,204 $ 8,537 $ 7,540 $ 5,180 
Noncurrent assets 46,925 38,104 39,422 17,747 15,567 15,765 
Current liabilities 13,427 10,949 9,642 6,034 4,962 4,132 
Noncurrent liabilities 26,579 22,261 22,738 4,906 4,520 5,002 
Net equity $ 26,822 $ 21,400 $ 19,246 $15,344 $13,625 $11,811 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 69 


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


NOTE 14. 
PROPERTIES, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT®2 


At December 31 Year ended December 31 


Gross Investment at Cost 


Net Investment Additions at Cost? Depreciation Expense*? 


2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 
Upstream 
United States $ 43,390 $ 37,329 $ 34,798 $ 15,327 $10,047 $ 9,953} $2,160 $1,584 $1,776} $1,869 $1,508 $1,815 
International 54,497 38,721 37,402 34,311 21,192 20,572 4,897 3,090 3,246 2,804 2,180 2,227 
Total Upstream 97,887 76,050 72,200 49,638 31,239 30,525, 7,057 4,674 5,022 4,673 3,688 4,042 
Downstream 
United States 13,832 12,826 12,959 6,169 5,611 5,881 793 482 389 461 490 493 
International 11,235 10,843 11,174 5,529 5,443 5,944 453 44] 388 550 572 655 
Total Downstream 25,067 23,669 24,133 11,698 11,054 11,825 1,246 923 777 1,011 1,062 1,148 
Chemicals 
United States 624 615 613 282 292 303 12 12 12 19 20 21 
International 721 725 719 402 392 404 43 27 24 23 26 38 
Total Chemicals 1,345 1,340 1,332 684 684 707 55 39 36 42 46 59 
All Other® 
United States 3,127 2,877 2/12 1,655 1,466 1,393 199 314 169 186 158 109 
International 20 18 119 15 15 88 4 2 8 1 3 26 
Total All Other 3,147 2,895 2,891 1,670 1,481 1,481 203 316 177 187 161 135 
Total United States 60,973 53,647 51,142 23,433 17,416 17,530 3,164 2,392 2,346 2,535 2,176 2,438 
Total International 66,473 50,307 49,414 40,257 27,042 27,008 5,397 3,560 3,666 3,378 2,781 2,946 
Total $127,446 $103,954 $100,556 $ 63,690 $44,458 $44,538] $8,561 $5,952 $6,012] $5,913 $4,957 $5,384 


! Refer to Note 24, beginning on page 83, for a discussion of the effect on 2003 PP&E balances and depreciation expenses related to the adoption of FAS 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement 


Obligations.” 


2 2005 balances include assets acquired in connection with the acquisition of Unocal Corporation. Refer to Note 2, beginning on page 60, for additional information. 
3 Net of dry hole expense related to prior years’ expenditures of $28, $58 and $124 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 

4 Depreciation expense includes accretion expense of $187, $93 and $132 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 

5 Depreciation expense includes discontinued operations of $22 and $58 in 2004 and 2003, respectively. 

6 Primarily mining operations of coal and other minerals, power generation businesses, real estate assets and management information systems. 


NOTE 15. 


ACCOUNTING FOR BUY/SELL CONTRACTS 

In the first quarter 2005, the Securities and Exchange Com- 
mission (SEC) issued comment letters to Chevron and other 
companies in the oil and gas industry requesting disclosure of 
information related to the accounting for buy/sell contracts. 
Under a buy/sell contract, a company agrees to buy a specific 
quantity and quality of a commodity to be delivered at a spe- 
cific location while simultaneously agreeing to sell a specified 
quantity and quality of a commodity at a different location to 
the same counterparty. Physical delivery occurs for each side 
of the transaction, and the risk and reward of ownership are 
evidenced by title transfer, assumption of environmental risk, 
transportation scheduling, credit risk and risk of nonperform- 
ance by the counterparty. Both parties settle each side of 

the buy/sell through separate invoicing. 

The company routinely enters into buy/sell contracts, 
primarily in the United States downstream business, associ- 
ated with crude oil and refined products. For crude oil, these 
contracts are used to facilitate the company’s crude oil market- 
ing activity, which includes the purchase and sale of crude oil 
production, fulfillment of the company’s supply arrangements 
as to physical delivery location and crude oil specifications, 
and purchase of crude oil to supply the company’s refining 


70 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


system. For refined products, buy/sell arrangements are used 
to help fulfill the company’s supply agreements to customer 
locations and specifications. 

The company has historically accounted for buy/sell 
transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income the 
same as for a monetary transaction — purchases are reported 
as “Purchased crude oil and products”; sales are reported as 
“Sales and other operating revenues.” The SEC raised the 
issue as to whether the accounting for buy/sell contracts 
should be shown net on the income statement and accounted 
for under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) 
Opinion No. 29, “Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions” 
(APB 29). The company understands that others in the oil and 
gas industry may report buy/sell transactions on a net basis in 
the income statement rather than gross. 

The Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) of the FASB 
deliberated this topic as Issue No. 04-13, “Accounting for 
Purchases and Sales of Inventory with the Same Counterparty.” 
At its September 2005 meeting, the EITF reached consen- 
sus that two or more legally separate exchange transactions 
with the same counterparty, including buy/sell transactions, 
should be combined and considered as a single arrangement 
for purposes of applying APB 29 when the transactions were 
entered into “in contemplation” of one another. EITF 04-13 
was ratified by the FASB in September 2005 and is effective 


| NOTE 15. ACCOUNTING FOR | | | 
BUY/SELL CONTRACTS - Continued 


for new arrangements, or modifications or renewals of exist- 
ing arrangements, entered into beginning on or after April 1, 
2006, which will be the effective date for the company’s 
adoption of this standard. Upon adoption, the company 

will report the net effect of buy/sell transactions on its Con- 
solidated Statement of Income as “Purchased crude oil and 
products” instead of reporting the revenues associated with 
these arrangements as “Sales and other operating revenues” 
and the costs as “Purchased crude oil and products.” 

While this issue was under deliberation by the EITF, the 
SEC staff directed Chevron and other companies to disclose 
on the face of the income statement the amounts associated 
with buy/sell contracts and to discuss in a footnote to the 
financial statements the basis for the underlying accounting. 
The amounts for buy/sell contracts shown on the company’s 
Consolidated Statement of Income “Sales and other operat- 
ing revenues” for the three years ending December 31, 2005, 
were $23,822, $18,650 and $14,246, respectively. These rev- 
enue amounts associated with buy/sell contracts represented 
12 percent of total “Sales and other operating revenues” in 
2005, 2004 and 2003. Nearly all of these revenue amounts in 
each period associated with buy/sell contracts pertain to the 
company’s downstream segment. The costs associated with 
these buy/sell revenue amounts are included in “Purchased 
crude oil and products” on the Consolidated Statement of 
Income in each period. 


NOTE 16. 
TAXES 
Year ended December 31 
2005 2004 2003 
Taxes on income! 
U.S. federal 
Current $ 1,459 $ 2,246 $ 1,133 
Deferred 567 (290) 121 
State and local 409 345 133 
Total United States 2,435 2,301 1,387 
International 
Current 7,837 5,150 3,864 
Deferred 826 66 43 
Total International 8,663 5,216 3,907 
Total taxes on income $11,098 | $7,517 $5,294 


! Excludes income tax expense of $100 and $50 related to discontinued operations for 
2004 and 2003, respectively. 

? Excludes a U.S. deferred tax benefit of $191 anda foreign deferred tax expense of $170 
associated with the adoption of FAS 143 in 2003 and the related cumulative effect of 
changes in accounting method in 2003. 


In 2005, the before-tax income for U.S. operations, 
including related corporate and other charges, was $6,733, 
compared with a before-tax income of $7,776 and $5,664 in 
2004 and 2003, respectively. For international operations, 
before-tax income was $18,464, $12,775 and $7,012 in 
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. U.S. federal income tax 


expense was reduced by $289, $176 and $196 in 2005, 2004 
and 2003, respectively, for business tax credits. 

The reconciliation between the U.S. statutory federal 
income tax rate and the company’s effective income tax rate is 
explained in the table below: 


Year ended December 31 


2005 2004 2003 

USS. statutory federal income tax rate 35.0% 35.0% 35.0% 
Effect of income taxes from inter- 

national operations in excess of 

taxes at the U.S. statutory rate 9.2 Bb) 12.8 
State and local taxes on income, net 

of U.S. federal income tax benefit 1.0 0.9 0.5 
Prior-year tax adjustments 0.1 (1.0) 1.6) 
Tax credits (1.1) (0.9) 1.5) 
Effects of enacted changes in tax laws - (0.6) 0.3 
Capital loss tax benefit (0.1) (2.1) 0.8) 
Other 0.2 - 1.9) 
Consolidated companies 44.3 36.6 42.8 
Effect of recording income from equity 

affiliates on an after-tax basis (0.2) - 1.0) 
Effective tax rate 44.1% 36.6% 41.8% 


The company records its deferred taxes on a tax-juris- 
diction basis and classifies those net amounts as current or 
noncurrent based on the balance sheet classification of the 
related assets or liabilities. 

The reported deferred tax balances are composed of the 
following: 


At December 31 
2005 2004 


Deferred tax liabilities 
Properties, plant and equipment $ 14,220 $ 8,889 
Investments and other 1,469 931 
Total deferred tax liabilities 15,689 9,820 
Deferred tax assets 
Abandonment/environmental reserves (2,083) (1,495 
Employee benefits (1,250) (965 
Tax loss carryforwards (1,113) (1,155 
Capital losses (246) (687 
Deferred credits (1,618) (838 
Foreign tax credits (1,145) (93 
Inventory (182) (99 
Other accrued liabilities (240) (300 
Miscellaneous (1,237) (876 
Total deferred tax assets (9,114) (6,508 
Deferred tax assets valuation allowance 3,249 1,661 
Total deferred taxes, net $ 9,824 $ 4,973 


In 2005, the reported amount of net total deferred taxes 
increased by approximately $5,000 from the amount reported 
in 2004. The increase was largely attributable to net deferred 
taxes arising through the Unocal acquisition. 

Deferred tax assets related to foreign tax credits 
increased approximately $1,000 between 2004 and 2005. 
The associated valuation allowance also increased approxi- 
mately the same amount. The change in both categories 
reflected the addition of Unocal amounts as well as the effect 
of the company’s tax election in 2005 for certain heritage- 
Chevron international upstream operations. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 71 


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


| NOTE 16. TAXES - Continued || | 


The overall valuation allowance relates to foreign tax 
credit carryforwards, tax loss carryforwards and temporary 
differences for which no benefit is expected to be realized. Tax 
loss carryforwards exist in many foreign jurisdictions. Whereas 
some of these tax loss carryforwards do not have an expiration 
date, others expire at various times from 2006 through 2013. 
Foreign tax credit carryforwards of $1,145 will expire in 2015. 

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, deferred taxes were 
classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as follows: 


At December 31 

2005 2004 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets $ (892) | $ (1,532) 
Deferred charges and other assets (547) (769) 
Federal and other taxes on income 1 6 
Noncurrent deferred income taxes 11,262 7,268 


$ 9,824 | $ 4,973 


Total deferred income taxes, net 


It is the company’s policy for subsidiaries that are 
included in the U.S. consolidated tax return to record income 
tax expense as though they file separately, with the parent 
recording the adjustment to income tax expense for the effects 
of consolidation. 

Income taxes are not accrued for unremitted earnings 
of international operations that have been or are intended to 
be reinvested indefinitely. Undistributed earnings of inter- 
national consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates for which 
no deferred income tax provision has been made for possible 
future remittances totaled $14,317 at December 31, 2005. 

A significant majority of this amount represents earnings 
reinvested as part of the company’s ongoing international 
business. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of taxes 
that might be payable on the eventual remittance of such 
earnings. The company does not anticipate incurring signifi- 
cant additional taxes on remittances of earnings that are not 
indefinitely reinvested. 


American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 In October 2004, the 
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 was passed into law. 
The Act provides a deduction for income from qualified 
domestic refining and upstream production activities, which 
will be phased in from 2005 through 2010. For that income, 
the company expects the net effect of this provision of the 
Act to result in a decrease in the federal effective tax rate for 
2006 to approximately 34 percent, based on current earnings 
levels. In the long term, the company expects that the new 
deduction will result in a decrease of the annual effective tax 
rate to about 32 percent for that category of income, based 
on current earnings levels. 


72 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


Taxes other than on income were as follows: 


Year ended December 31 


2005 2004 2003 
United States 
Excise taxes on products 
and merchandise $ 4,521 | $ 4,147 $ 3,744 
Import duties and other levies 8 5 11 
Property and other 
miscellaneous taxes 392 359 309 
Payroll taxes 149 137 138 
Taxes on production 323 257 244 
Total United States 5,393 4,905 4,446 
International 
Excise taxes on products 
and merchandise 4,198 3,821 3,351 
Import duties and other levies 10,466 10,542 9,652 
Property and other 
miscellaneous taxes 535 415 320 
Payroll taxes 52 52 54 
Taxes on production 138 86 83 
Total International 15,389 14,916 13,460 


$ 20,782 | $19,821 $17,906 


Total taxes other than on income* 


*Includes taxes on discontinued operations of $3 and $5 in 2004 and 2003, respectively. 


NOTE 17. 
SHORT-TERM DEBT 


At December 31 
2005 2004 


Commercial paper* $ 4,098 | $ 4,068 
Notes payable to banks and others with 

originating terms of one year or less 170 310 
Current maturities of long-term debt 467 333 
Current maturities of long-term 

capital leases 70 55 
Redeemable long-term obligations 

Long-term debt 487 487 

Capital leases 297 298 

Subtotal 5,589 5,551 
Reclassified to long-term debt (4,850) (4,735) 

Total short-term debt $ 739 | $ 816 


*Weighted-average interest rates at December 31, 2005 and 2004, were 4.18 percent and 
1.98 percent, respectively. 


Redeemable long-term obligations consist primarily of 
tax-exempt variable-rate put bonds that are included as cur- 
rent liabilities because they become redeemable at the option 
of the bondholders during the year following the balance 
sheet date. 

The company periodically enters into interest rate swaps 
on a portion of its short-term debt. See Note 7, beginning on 
page 63, for information concerning the company’s debt- 
related derivative activities. 

At December 31, 2005, the company had $4,850 of com- 
mitted credit facilities with banks worldwide, which permit 
the company to refinance short-term obligations on a long- 
term basis. The facilities support the company’s commercial 
paper borrowings. Interest on borrowings under the terms of 
specific agreements may be based on the London Interbank 
Offered Rate or bank prime rate. No amounts were outstand- 
ing under these credit agreements during 2005 or at year-end. 


| NOTE 17. SHORT-TERM DEBT - Continued | | | 


At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the company clas- 
sified $4,850 and $ 4,735, respectively, of short-term debt as 
long-term. Settlement of these obligations is not expected to 
require the use of working capital in 2006, as the company 
has both the intent and the ability to refinance this debt on 
a long-term basis. 


NOTE 18. 


LONG-TERM DEBT 

Chevron has three “shelf” registration statements on file 
with the SEC that together would permit the issuance of 
$3,800 of debt securities pursuant to Rule 415 of the Secu- 
rities Act of 1933. Total long-term debt, excluding capital 
leases, at December 31, 2005, was $11,807, which included 
$1,861 assumed in connection with the acquisition of 
Unocal. The company’s long-term debt outstanding at 
year-end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: 


At December 31 
2005 2004 
3.5% notes due 2007 $ 1,992 | $ 1,995 
3.375% notes due 2008 736 754 
7.5% debentures due 2029! 475 - 
5.05% debentures due 2012! 412 - 
5.5% notes due 2009 406 422 
7.35% debentures due 2009! 347 - 
7% debentures due 2028! 259 - 
9.75% debentures due 2020 250 250 
7.327% amortizing notes due 2014? 247 360 
Fixed interest rate notes, maturing from 
2006 to 2015 (8.1%)! 241 - 
8.625% debentures due 2031 199 199 
8.625% debentures due 2032 199 199 
7.5% debentures due 2043 198 198 
Fixed and floating interest rate loans due 
2007 to 2009 (4.4%)!4 194 = 
9.125% debentures due 2006! 167 - 
8.625% debentures due 2010 150 150 
8.875% debentures due 2021 150 150 
8% debentures due 2032 148 148 
7.09% notes due 2007 144 144 
8.25% debentures due 2006 129 129 
Medium-term notes, maturing from 
2017 to 2043 (7.5%) 210 210 
Other foreign currency obligations (3.2%)? 30 39 
5.7% notes due 2008 - 206 
Other long-term debt (6.4%)? 141 262 
Total including debt due within one year 7,424 5,815 
Debt due within one year (467) (333) 
Reclassified from short-term debt 4,850 4,735 
Total long-term debt $11,807 | $ 10,217 


' Debt assumed with acquisition of Unocal in 2005. 
? Guarantee of ESOP debt. 
3 Less than $100 individually; weighted-average interest rate at December 31, 2005. 


Consolidated long-term debt maturing after December 31, 
2005, is as follows: 2006 — $467; 2007 — $2,287; 2008 — $856; 
2009 — $782; and 2010 — $176; after 2010 — $2,856. 


In October 2005, the company fully redeemed Pure 
Resources 7.125 percent Senior Notes due 2011 for $395. 
The company’s $150 of Texaco Brasil zero coupon notes were 
paid at maturity in November 2005. In December 2005, the 
company exercised a par call redemption of $200 for Texaco 
Capital Inc. 5.7 percent Notes due 2008. 

In January 2005, the company contributed $98 to permit 
the ESOP to make a principal payment of $113. 


NOTE 19. 


NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 

FASB Statement No. 151, “Inventory Costs, an Amendment of 
ARB No. 43, Chapter 4” (FAS 151) In November 2004, the 
FASB issued FAS 151, which became effective for the com- 
pany on January 1, 2006. The standard amends the guidance 
in Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 43, Chapter 4, 
“Inventory Pricing,” to clarify the accounting for abnormal 
amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and 
spoilage. In addition, the standard requires that allocation of 
fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based 
on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The adop- 
tion of this standard will not have an impact on the company’s 
results of operations, financial position or liquidity. 


EITF Issue No. 04-6, “Accounting for Stripping Costs Incurred 
During Production in the Mining Industry” (Issue 04-6) In 
March 2005, the FASB ratified the earlier EITF consensus on 
Issue 04-6, which became effective for the company on January 1, 
2006. Stripping costs are costs of removing overburden and 
other waste materials to access mineral deposits. The consen- 
sus calls for stripping costs incurred once a mine goes into 
production to be treated as variable production costs that 
should be considered a component of mineral inventory cost 
subject to ARB No. 43, “Restatement and Revision of Account- 
ing Research Bulletins.” Adoption of this accounting for its 
coal, oil sands and other mining operations will not have 

a significant effect on the company’s results of operations, 
financial position or liquidity. 


NOTE 20. 


ACCOUNTING FOR SUSPENDED EXPLORATORY WELLS 
Refer to Note 1, beginning on page 58, in the section “Proper- 
ties, Plant and Equipment” for a discussion of the company’s 
accounting policy for the cost of exploratory wells. The 
company’s suspended wells are reviewed in this context on a 
quarterly basis. 

In April 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position 
(FSP) FAS 19-1, “Accounting for Suspended Well Costs,” which 
amended FAS 19, “Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil 
and Gas Producing Companies.” The company elected early 
application of this guidance with the first quarter 2005 finan- 
cial statements. 

Under the provisions of FSP FAS 19-1, exploratory 
well costs continue to be capitalized after the completion of 
drilling when (a) the well has found a sufficient quantity of 
reserves to justify completion as a producing well and (b) the 
enterprise is making sufficient progress assessing the reserves 
and the economic and operating viability of the project. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 73 


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 


Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


NOTE 20. ACCOUNTING FOR SUSPENDED 
EXPLORATORY WELLS - Continued 


If either condition is not met, or if an enterprise obtains 
information that raises substantial doubt about the eco- 
nomic or operational viability of the project, the exploratory 
well would be assumed to be impaired, and its costs, net of 
any salvage value, would be charged to expense. The FSP 
provides a number of indicators that can assist an entity to 
demonstrate sufficient progress is being made in assessing the 
reserves and economic viability of the project. 

The following table indicates the changes to the com- 
pany’s suspended exploratory-well costs for the three years 
ended December 31, 2005. No capitalized exploratory well 
costs were charged to expense upon the adoption of FSP FAS 
19-1. Amounts may differ from those previously disclosed 
due to the requirements of FSP FAS 19-1 to exclude costs 
suspended and expensed in the same annual period. 


Year ended December 31 
2005 2004 2003 


$ 671 $ 549 $ 478 


Beginning balance at January 1 
Additions associated with the 
acquisition of Unocal 317 - - 
Additions to capitalized exploratory 
well costs pending the 
determination of proved reserves 290 252 344 
Reclassifications to wells, facilities 
and equipment based on the 


determination of proved reserves (140) (64) (145) 
Capitalized exploratory well costs 

charged to expense (6) (66) (126) 
Other reductions* (23) = (2) 


Ending balance at December 31 $ 1,109 $ 671 $ 549 


*Represent property sales and an exchange. 


The following table provides an aging of capitalized well 
costs and the number of projects for which exploratory well 
costs have been capitalized for a period greater than one year 
since the completion of drilling. The aging of the former 
Unocal wells is based on the date the drilling was completed, 
rather than Chevron’s August 2005 acquisition of Unocal. 


Year ended December 31 
2005 2004 2003 


Exploratory well costs capitalized 
for a period of one year or less $ 259 $ 222 $ 181 
Exploratory well costs capitalized 
for a period greater than one year 850 449 368 


$ 1,109 $671 $ 549 


Balance at December 31 


Number of projects with exploratory 
well costs that have been capitalized 


for a period greater than one year* 40 22 22 


*Certain projects have multiple wells or fields or both. 


Of the $850 of exploratory well costs capitalized for a 
period greater than one year at December 31, 2005, approxi- 
mately $313 (20 projects) related to projects that had drilling 
activities under way or firmly planned for the near future. 
An additional $63 (four projects) had drilling activity dur- 


74 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


ing 2005. The $474 balance related to 16 projects in areas 
requiring a major capital expenditure before production 
could begin and for which additional drilling efforts were not 
under way or firmly planned for the near future. Additional 
drilling was not deemed necessary because the presence of 
hydrocarbons had already been established, and other activi- 
ties were in process to enable a future decision on project 
development. 

The projects for the $474 referenced above had the fol- 
lowing activities associated with assessing the reserves and 
the projects’ economic viability: (a) $141 — additional seismic 
interpretation planned, with front-end engineering and design 
(FEED) expected to commence in 2007 (two projects); (b) $82 
— evaluation of drilling results and pre-FEED studies ongoing 
with FEED expected to commence in 2006 (one project); 
(c) $74 — finalization of pre-unit agreement with operator 
of adjacent field and the progression of joint subsurface and 
joint concept selection studies, with FEED expected to begin 
in 2006 (one project); (d) $63 — FEED contracts executed in 
2005 and continued marketing of equity natural gas (two proj- 
ects); (e) $114 — miscellaneous activities for 10 projects with 
smaller amounts suspended. While progress was being made 
on all the projects in this category, the decision on the recog- 
nition of proved reserves under SEC rules in some cases may 
not occur for several years because of the complexity, scale and 
negotiations connected with the projects. The majority of these 
decisions are expected to occur in the next three years. 

The $850 of suspended well costs capitalized for a period 
greater than one year as of December 31, 2005, represents 
105 exploratory wells in 40 projects. The tables below contain 
the aging of these costs on a well and project basis: 


Exploratory wells costs greater than one year: 


Number 

Aging based on drilling completion date of individual wells: Amount of wells 
1994-2000 $ 147 28 
2001-2004 703 77 
Total $ 850 105 
Number 

Aging based on drilling completion date of last well in project: Amount _ of projects 
1998-2000 $ 91 4 
2001-2005 759 36 
Total $ 850 40 


NOTE 21. 


EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS 

The company has defined-benefit pension plans for many 
employees. The company typically pre-funds defined-benefit 
plans as required by local regulations or in certain situa- 
tions where pre-funding provides economic advantages. In 
the United States, all qualified tax-exempt plans are subject 
to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) 
minimum funding standard. The company does not typically 
fund domestic nonqualified tax-exempt pension plans that 
are not subject to funding requirements under laws and regu- 
lations because contributions to these pension plans may be 


| NOTE 21. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS - Continued 


less economic and investment returns may be less attractive 


than the company’s other investment alternatives. 


The company also sponsors other postretirement plans 
that provide medical and dental benefits, as well as life insur- 
ance for some active and qualifying retired employees. The 


plans are unfunded, and the company and the retirees share 


the costs. For retiree medical coverage in the company’s main 


U.S. plan, the increase to the company contributions for 


retiree medical coverage is limited to no more than 4 percent 


each year, effective at retirement, beginning in 2005. Certain 


life insurance benefits are paid by the company and annual 


contributions are based on actual plan experience. 


The company uses a measurement date of December 31 


to value its pension and other postretirement benefit plan 


obligations. 


The status of the company’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans for 2005 and 2004 is as follows: 


Pension Benefits 


2005 2004 Other Benefits 
WS, Int'l. U.S Int'l. 2005 2004 
CHANGE IN BENEFIT OBLIGATION 
Benefit obligation at January 1 $ 6,587 $3,144] $5,819 $ 2,708 $ 2,820  $ 3,135 
Assumption of Unocal benefit obligations 1,437 169 - - 277 - 
Service cost 208 84 170 70 30 26 
Interest cost 395 199 326 180 164 164 
Plan participants’ contributions 1 6 1 6 - - 
Plan amendments 42 7 - 26 - (811) 
Actuarial loss 593 476 861 165 189 497 
Foreign currency exchange rate changes - (293) - 207 (2) 8 
Benefits paid (669) (181) (590) (213) (226) (199) 
Curtailment = - - (6) a - 
Special termination benefits - - - 1 - - 
Benefit obligation at December 31 8,594 3,611 6,587 3,144 3,252 2,820 
CHANGE IN PLAN ASSETS 
Fair value of plan assets at January 1 5,776 2,634 4,444 2,129 - - 
Acquisition of Unocal plan assets 1,034 65 - - - - 
Actual return on plan assets 527 441 589 229 - - 
Foreign currency exchange rate changes - (303) - 172 = - 
Employer contributions 794 228 1,332 311 226 199 
Plan participants’ contributions 1 6 1 6 - - 
Benefits paid (669) (181) (590) (213) (226) (199) 
Fair value of plan assets at December 31 7,463 2,890 5,776 2,634 = - 
FUNDED STATUS (1,131) (721) (811) (510) (3,252) (2,820) 
Unrecognized net actuarial loss 2,332 1,108 2,080 939 1,167 1,071 
Unrecognized prior-service cost 305 89 308 104 (679) (771) 
Unrecognized net transitional assets - 5 - 7 - - 
Total recognized at December 31 $1,506 $ 481 | $1,577 $ 540 $ (2,764) $ (2,520) 
AMOUNTS RECOGNIZED IN THE CONSOLIDATED 
BALANCE SHEET AT DECEMBER 31 
Prepaid benefit cost $1,961 $ 960 $1,759 $ 933 $ -|$ - 
Accrued benefit liability! (890) (545) (712) (458) (2,764) (2,520) 
Intangible asset 12 2 14 5 - - 
Accumulated other comprehensive income 423 64 516 60 - - 
Net amount recognized $1,506 $ 481 | $1,577 $ 540 $ (2,764) $ (2,520) 
' The company recorded additional minimum liabilities of $435 and $66 in 2005 for U.S. and international plans, respectively, and $530 and $64 in 2004 for U.S. and international plans, 


respectively, to reflect the amount of unfunded accumulated benefit obligations. The long-term portion of accrued benefits liability is recorded in “Reserves for employee benefit plans,” and the 


short-term portion is reflected in “Accrued liabilities.” 


2 “Accumulated other comprehensive income” includes deferred income taxes of $148 and $22 in 2005 for U.S. and international plans, respectively, and $181 and $21 in 2004 for U.S. and 
international plans, respectively. This item is presented net of these taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 75 


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 


Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


The accumulated benefit obligations for all U.S. and 
international pension plans were $7,931 and $3,080, respec- 
tively, at December 31, 2005, and $6,117 and $2,734, 
respectively, at December 31, 2004. 


| NOTE 21. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS - Continued 


Information for U.S. and international pension plans 
with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan 
assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004, was: 


At December 31 
2005 2004 


Projected benefit obligations $ 2,950 $ 1,449 
Accumulated benefit obligations 2,625 1,360 
Fair value of plan assets 1,359 282 


The components of net periodic benefit cost for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were: 


Pension Benefits 


2005 2004 2003 Other Benefits 

US. Int'l. U.S. Int'l. U:S: Int'l. 2005 2004 2003 

Service cost $ 208 $ 84 $ 170 $ 70 $ 144 $ 54 30 $ 26 $ 28 
Interest cost 395 199 326 180 334 151 164 164 191 
Expected return on plan assets (449) (208) (358) (169) (224) (132) - = 7 
Amortization of transitional assets - 2 - 1 - (3) - - - 
Amottization of prior-service costs 45 16 42 16 45 14 (91) (47) (3) 
Recognized actuarial losses 177 51 114 69 133 42 93 54 12 
Settlement losses 86 = 96 4 132 1 - - - 
Curtailment losses - - - 2 - 6 - - - 

Special termination benefits 

recognition - - - 1 - - - - - 
Net periodic benefit cost $ 462 $144 $ 390 $174 $ 564 $133 $ 196 $197 $228 


Assumptions The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine benefit obligations and net period benefit costs 


for years ended December 31: 


Pension Benefits 


2005 2004 2003 Other Benefits 
US. Int'l. US. Int'l. US. Int'l. 2005 2004 2003 
Assumptions used to determine 
benefit obligations 
Discount rate 5.5% 5.9% 5.8% 6.4% 6.0% 6.8% 5.6% 5.8% 6.1% 
Rate of compensation increase 4.0% 5.1% 4.0% 4.9% 4.0% 4.9% 4.0% 4.1% 4.1% 
Assumptions used to determine 
net periodic benefit cost 
Discount rate! 5.5% 6.4% 5.9% 6.8% 6.3% 7.1% 5.8% 6.1% 6.8% 
Expected return on plan assets)? 7.8% 7.9% 7.8% 8.3% 7.8% 8.3% N/A N/A N/A 
Rate of compensation increase” 4.0% 5.0% 4.0% 4.9% 4.0% 5.1% 4.0% 41% 41% 


' Discount rate and expected rate of return on plan assets were reviewed and updated as needed on a quarterly basis for the main U.S. pension plan. 
2 The 2005 discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of compensation increase reflect the remeasurement of the Unocal benefit plans at July 31, 2005, due to the acquisition of Unocal. 


Expected Return on Plan Assets The company employs a rig- 
orous process to determine estimates of the long-term rate 
of return on pension assets. These estimates are primarily 
driven by actual historical asset-class returns, an assessment 
of expected future performance, advice from external actu- 
arial firms and the incorporation of specific asset-class risk 
factors. Asset allocations are periodically updated using pen- 
sion plan asset/liability studies, and the determination of the 
company’s estimates of long-term rates of return are consis- 
tent with these studies. 

There have been no changes in the expected long-term 
rate of return on plan assets since 2002 for U.S. plans, which 
account for 72 percent of the company’s pension plan assets. 
At December 31, 2005, the estimated long-term rate of 
return on U.S. pension plan assets was 7.8 percent. 


76 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


The market-related value of assets of the major U.S. pen- 
sion plan used in the determination of pension expense was 
based on the market values in the three months preceding 
the year-end measurement date, as opposed to the maximum 
allowable period of five years under U.S. accounting rules. 
Management considers the three-month time period long 
enough to minimize the effects of distortions from day-to-day 
market volatility and still be contemporaneous to the end of the 
year. For other plans, market value of assets as of the measure- 
ment date is used in calculating the pension expense. 


Discount Rate The discount rate assumptions used to deter- 
mine U.S. and international pension and postretirement 
benefit plan obligations and expense reflect the prevailing 
rates available on high-quality fixed-income debt instru- 
ments. At December 31, 2005, the company selected a 


| NOTE 21. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS - Continued | | | 


5.5 percent discount rate (shown in the table on page 76) 
based on Moody’s Aa Corporate Bond Index and a cash flow 
analysis using the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve. The 
discount rates at the end of 2004 and 2003 were 5.8 percent 
and 6 percent, respectively. 


Other Benefit Assumptions For the measurement of accumu- 
lated postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2005, 
for the main U.S. postretirement medical plan, the assumed 
health care cost trend rates start with 10 percent in 2006 and 
gradually decline to 5 percent for 2011 and beyond. For this 
measurement at December 31, 2004, the assumed health care 
cost trend rates started with 9.5 percent in 2005 and gradu- 
ally declined to 4.8 percent for 2010 and beyond. In both 
measurements, increases in the company’s contributions are 
capped at 4 percent effective at retirement. 

Assumed health care cost-trend rates have a significant 
effect on the amounts reported for retiree health care costs. 
A one-percentage-point change in the assumed health care 
cost-trend rates would have the following effects: 


1 Percent 1 Percent 
Increase Decrease 
Effect on total service and interest 
cost components $ 8 $ (9) 
Effect on postretirement benefit 
obligation $126 $ (184) 


Plan Assets and Investment Strategy The company’s pension 
plan weighted-average asset allocations at December 31 by 
asset category are as follows: 


US. International 
Asset Category 2005 2004 2005 2004 
Equities 69% 70% 60% 57% 
Fixed Income 21% 21% 39% 42% 
Real Estate 9% 9% 1% 1% 
Other 1% 
Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 


The pension plans invest primarily in asset categories with 
sufficient size, liquidity and cost efficiency to permit invest- 
ments of reasonable size. The pension plans invest in asset 
categories that provide diversification benefits and are easily 
measured. To assess the plans’ investment performance, long- 
term asset allocation policy benchmarks have been established. 

For the primary U.S. pension plan, the Chevron Board 
of Directors has established the following approved asset allo- 
cation ranges: Equities 40-70 percent, Fixed Income 20-60 
percent, Real Estate 0-15 percent and Other 0-5 percent. 
The significant international pension plans also have estab- 
lished maximum and minimum asset allocation ranges that 
vary by each plan. Actual asset allocation within approved 
ranges is based on a variety of current economic and market 
conditions and consideration of specific asset category risk. 


Equities include investments in the company’s common 
stock in the amount of $13 and $8 at December 31, 2005 
and 2004, respectively. The “Other” asset category includes 
minimal investments in private-equity limited partnerships. 


Cash Contributions and Benefit Payments In 2005, the com- 
pany contributed $794 and $228 to its U.S. and international 
pension plans, respectively. In 2006, the company expects con- 
tributions to be approximately $300 and $200 to its U.S. and 
international pension plans, respectively. Actual contribution 
amounts are dependent upon plan-investment returns, changes 
in pension obligations, regulatory environments and other eco- 
nomic factors. Additional funding may ultimately be required 
if investment returns are insufficient to offset increases in plan 
obligations. 

The company anticipates paying other postretirement 
benefits of approximately $220 in 2006, as compared with 
$226 paid in 2005. 

The following benefit payments, which include estimated 
future service, are expected to be paid by the company in the 
next ten years: 


Pension Benefits Other 

US. Int'l. Benefits 

2006 $ 788 $ 177 $ 220 
2007 $ 639 $ 185 $ 218 
2008 $ 674 $ 195 $ 224 
2009 $ 714 $ 202 $ 231 
2010 $ 729 $ 212 $ 237 
2011-2015 $ 3,803 $ 1,240 $ 1,238 


Employee Savings Investment Plan Eligible employees of 
Chevron and certain of its subsidiaries participate in the 
Chevron Employee Savings Investment Plan (ESIP). 

Charges to expense for the ESIP represent the company’s 
contributions to the plan, which are funded either through 
the purchase of shares of common stock on the open market 
or through the release of common stock held in the leveraged 
employee stock ownership plan (LESOP), which is discussed 
below. Total company matching contributions to employee 
accounts within the ESIP were $145, $139 and $136 in 2005, 
2004 and 2003, respectively. This cost was reduced by the 
value of shares released from the LESOP totaling $(4), $(138) 
and $(23) in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The remain- 
ing amounts, totaling $141, $1 and $113 in 2005, 2004 and 
2003, respectively, represent open market purchases. 


Employee Stock Ownership Plan Within the Chevron 
Employee Savings Investment Plan (ESIP) is an employee stock 
ownership plan (ESOP). In 1989, Chevron established a lever- 
aged employee stock ownership plan (LESOP) as a constituent 
part of the ESOP. The LESOP provides partial prefunding of 
the company’s future commitments to the ESIP. 

As permitted by American Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants (AICPA) Statement of Position 93-6, “Employers’ 
Accounting for Employee Stock Ownership Plans,” the com- 
pany has elected to continue its practices, which are based 
on AICPA Statement of Position 76-3, “Accounting Practices 
for Certain Employee Stock Ownership Plans,” and subsequent 
consensus of the EITF of the FASB. The debt of the LESOP 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 7/7 


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


| NOTE 21. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS - Continued | | | 


is recorded as debt, and shares pledged as collateral are 
reported as “Deferred compensation and benefit plan trust” 
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the Consolidated 
Statement of Stockholders’ Equity. 

The company reports compensation expense equal to 
LESOP debt principal repayments less dividends received 
and used by the LESOP for debt service. Interest accrued 
on LESOP debt is recorded as interest expense. Dividends 
paid on LESOP shares are reflected as a reduction of retained 
earnings. All LESOP shares are considered outstanding for 
earnings-per-share computations. 

Total expenses (credits) recorded for the LESOP were 
$94, $(29) and $24 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, 
including $18, $23 and $28 of interest expense related to 
LESOP debt and a charge (credit) to compensation expense 
of $76, $(52) and $(4). 

Of the dividends paid on the LESOP shares, $55, $52 
and $61 were used in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, 
to service LESOP debt. Included in the 2004 amount was a 
repayment of debt entered into in 1999 to pay interest on the 
ESOP debt. Interest expense on this debt was recognized and 
reported as LESOP interest expense in 1999. In addition, 
the company made contributions in 2005 and 2003 of $98 
and $26, respectively, to satisfy LESOP debt service in excess 
of dividends received by the LESOP. No contributions were 
required in 2004 as dividends received by the LESOP were 
sufficient to satisfy LESOP debt service. 

Shares held in the LESOP are released and allocated 
to the accounts of plan participants based on debt service 
deemed to be paid in the year in proportion to the total of 
current-year and remaining debt service. LESOP shares as 
of December 31, 2005 and 2004, were as follows: 


Thousands 2005 2004 
Allocated shares 23,928 24,832 
Unallocated shares 9,163 9,940 
Total LESOP shares 33,091 34,772 


Benefit Plan Trusts Texaco established a benefit plan trust 
for funding obligations under some of its benefit plans. At 
year-end 2005, the trust contained 14.2 million shares of 
Chevron treasury stock. The company intends to continue to 
pay its obligations under the benefit plans. The trust will sell 
the shares or use the dividends from the shares to pay ben- 
efits only to the extent that the company does not pay such 
benefits. The trustee will vote the shares held in the trust as 
instructed by the trust’s beneficiaries. The shares held in the 
trust are not considered outstanding for earnings-per-share 
purposes until distributed or sold by the trust in payment of 
benefit obligations. 

Unocal established various grantor trusts to fund obliga- 
tions under some of its benefit plans, including the deferred 
compensation and supplemental retirement plans. At Decem- 


78 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


ber 31, 2005, trust assets totaled $130 and were invested pri- 
marily in interest-earning accounts. 


Management Incentive Plans Chevron has two incentive 
plans, the Management Incentive Plan (MIP) and the Long- 
Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), for officers and other regular 
salaried employees of the company and its subsidiaries who 
hold positions of significant responsibility. The MIP is an 
annual cash incentive plan that links awards to performance 
results of the prior year. The cash awards may be deferred. by 
the recipients by conversion to stock units or other invest- 
ment fund alternatives. Aggregate charges to expense for 
MIP were $155, $147 and $125 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, 
respectively. Awards under the LTIP consist of stock options 
and other share-based compensation that are described more 
fully in Note 22 below. 


Other Incentive Plans The company has a program that 
provides eligible employees, other than those covered by 
MIP and LTIP, with an annual cash bonus if the company 
achieves certain financial and safety goals. Additionally, in 
August 2005, the company assumed responsibility for the 
remaining pro-rated cash bonuses under the Unocal Annual 
Incentive Plan. Charges for the programs were $324, $339 
and $151 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 


NOTE 22. 


STOCK OPTIONS AND OTHER SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION 
Effective July 1, 2005, the company adopted the provisions of 
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 
123R, “Share-Based Payment,” (FAS 123R) for its share-based 
compensation plans. The company previously accounted for 
these plans under the recognition and measurement prin- 
ciples of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, 
‘Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” (APB 25) and related 
interpretations and disclosure requirements established by FAS 
123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.” 

The company adopted FAS 123R using the modified 
prospective method and, accordingly, results for prior periods 
have not been restated. Refer to Note 1, beginning on page 58, 
for the pro forma effect on net income and earnings per share 
as if the company had applied the fair-value recognition of 
FAS 123 for periods prior to adoption of FAS 123R and the 
actual effect on net income and earnings per share for peri- 
ods after adoption of FAS 123R. 

For 2005, compensation expense charged against income 
for the first time for stock options was $65 ($42 after tax). In 
addition, compensation expense charged against income for 
stock appreciation rights, performance units and restricted 
stock units was $59 ($39 after tax), $65 ($42 after tax) and 
$25 ($16 after tax) for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 
There were no significant capitalized stock-based compensa- 
tion costs at December 31, 2005. 

Cash received from option exercises under all share- 
based payment arrangements for 2005, 2004 and 2003 was 
$297, $385 and $32, respectively. Actual tax benefits realized 
for the tax deductions from option exercises was $71, $49 
and $6 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 


| NOTE 22. STOCK OPTIONS AND OTHER SHARE-BASED | | | 
COMPENSATION - Continued 


Cash paid to settle performance units and stock appre- 
ciation rights was $110, $23 and $11 for 2005, 2004 and 
2003, respectively. Cash paid in 2005 included $73 million for 
Unocal awards paid under change-in-control plan provisions. 

At adoption of FAS 123R, the impact of measuring 
stock appreciation rights at fair value instead of intrinsic 
value resulted in an insignificant charge against income in 
the third quarter 2005. For restricted stock units, FAS 123R 
required that unrecognized compensation amounts presented 
in “Deferred compensation and benefit plan trust” on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet be reclassified against the appropri- 
ate equity accounts. This resulted in a reclassification of $7 to 
“Capital in excess of par value.” 

Prior to the adoption of FAS 123R, the company pre- 
sented all tax benefits of deductions resulting from the exercise 
of stock options as operating cash flows in the Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flows. FAS 123R requires the cash flow 
resulting from the tax deductions in excess of the compensa- 
tion cost recognized for those options (excess tax benefits) to be 
classified as financing cash flows. Refer to Note 3, beginning on 
page 61, for information on excess tax benefits. 

In November 2005, the FASB issued a Staff Position FAS 
123R-3 (FSP FAS 123R-3), “Zransition Election Related to 
Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards,” 
which provides a one-time transition election for companies 
to follow in calculating the beginning balance of the pool of 
excess tax benefits related to employee compensation and a 
simplified method to determine the subsequent impact on the 
pool of employee awards that are fully vested and outstanding 
upon the adoption of FAS 123R. Under the FSP, the com- 
pany must decide by November 2006 whether to make this 
one-time transition election, which may provide some adminis- 
trative relief in calculating the future tax effects of stock option 
issuances. Whether or not the one-time election is made, the 
company anticipates no significant difference in the amount of 
tax expense recorded in future periods. 

In the discussion below, the references to share price 
and number of shares have been adjusted for the two-for-one 
stock split in September 2004. 


Chevron Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Awards under 

the LTIP may take the form of, but are not limited to, stock 
options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appre- 
ciation rights, performance units and non-stock grants. For 

a 10-year period after April 2004, no more than 160 mil- 
lion shares may be issued under the LTIP, and no more than 
64 million of those shares may be in a form other than a stock 
option, stock appreciation right or award requiring full payment 
for shares by the award recipient. 


Stock options and stock appreciation rights granted 
under the LTIP extend for 10 years from grant date. Effective 
with options granted in June 2002, one-third of each award 
vests on the first, second and third anniversaries of the date 
of grant. Prior to this change, options granted by Chevron 
vested one year after the date of grant. Performance units 
granted under the LTIP extend for 3 years from grant date 
and are settled in cash at the end of the period. Settlement 
amounts are based on achievement of performance targets 
relative to major competitors over the period, and payments are 
indexed to the company’s stock price. 


Texaco Stock Incentive Plan (Texaco SIP) On the closing 

of the acquisition of Texaco in October 2001, outstand- 
ing options granted under the Texaco SIP were converted 
to Chevron options. These options retained a provision for 
being restored, which enables a participant who exercises 

a stock option to receive new options equal to the number 
of shares exchanged or who has shares withheld to satisfy 
tax withholding obligations to receive new options equal to 
the number of shares exchanged or withheld. The restored 
options are fully exercisable six months after the date of 
grant, and the exercise price is the market value of the com- 
mon stock on the day the restored option is granted. Apart 
from the restored options, no further awards may be granted 
under the former Texaco plans. 


Unocal Share-Based Plans (Unocal Plans) On the closing of 
the acquisition of Unocal in August 2005, outstanding stock 
options and stock appreciation rights granted under vari- 

ous Unocal Plans were exchanged for fully vested Chevron 
options at a conversion ratio of 1.07 Chevron shares for each 
Unocal share. These awards retained the same provisions 

as the original Unocal Plans. Awards issued prior to 2004 
generally may be exercised for up to 3 years after termination 
of employment (depending upon the terms of the individual 
award agreements), or the original expiration date, whichever 
is earlier. Awards issued since 2004 generally remain exercis- 
able until the end of the normal option term if termination 
of employment occurs prior to August 10, 2007. Other 
awards issued under the Unocal Plans, including restricted 
stock, stock units, restricted stock units and performance 
shares, became vested at the acquisition date, and shares or 
cash were issued to recipients in accordance with change-in- 
control provisions of the plans. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 79 


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


NOTE 22. STOCK OPTIONS AND OTHER SHARE-BASED 
COMPENSATION - Continued 


The fair market values of stock options and stock apprecia- 
tion rights granted in 2005, 2004 and 2003 were measured on 
the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, 
with the following weighted-average assumptions: 


Year ended December 31 
2005 2004 2003 
Chevron LTIP: 

Expected term in years! 6.4 7.0 7.0 

Volatility” 24.5% 16.5% 19.3% 
Risk-free interest rate based on 

zero coupon U.S. treasury note 3.8% 4.4% 3.1% 
Dividend yield 3.4% 3.7% 3.5% 


Weighted-average fair value per 
option granted 


$11.66 $7.14 $5.51 


Texaco SIP: 
Expected term in years! 2.1 2.0 2.0 
Volatility” 18.6% 17.8% 22.0% 
Risk-free interest rate based on 
zero coupon U.S. treasury note 3.8% 2.5% 1.7% 
Dividend yield 3.4% 3.8% 3.9% 


Weighted-average fair value per 
$ 6.09 $ 4.00 $ 4.03 


option granted 


Unocal Plans:* 


Expected term in years! 4.2 - - 
Volatility? 21.6% - - 
Risk-free interest rate based on 

zero coupon U.S. treasury note 3.9% - - 
Dividend yield 3.4% - - 


Weighted-average fair value per 
$2148 | $ —- $ | 


option granted 
| Expected term is based on historical exercise and post-vesting cancellation data. 
2 Volatility rate is based on historical stock prices over an appropriate period, generally 
equal to the expected term. 
3 Represents options converted at the acquisition date. 


A summary of option activity under the LTIP as well as 
former Texaco and Unocal plans is presented below: 


Weighted- 
Weighted- Average 
Average Remaining Aggregate 
Shares Exercise Contractual Intrinsic 
(Thousands) Price Term Value 
Outstanding at 
January 1, 2005 54,440 $ 42.89 
Granted 8,718 $ 56.76 
Granted in Unocal 
acquisition 5,313 $ 35.02 
Exercised* (13,946) $ 44.19 
Restored 5,596 $ 58.41 
Forfeited* (597) $ 49.19 
Outstanding at 
December 31, 2005 59,524 $ 45.32 6.1 yrs. $ 694 
Exercisable at 
December 31, 2005 40,033 $ 42.18 5.2 yrs. $ 586 


*Includes fully vested Chevron options exchanged for outstanding Unocal options. 


The total intrinsic value (i.e., the difference between 
the exercise price and the market price) of options exercised 


80 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


during 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $258, $129 and $17, 
respectively. 

At adoption of FAS 123R, the company elected to amor- 
tize newly issued graded awards on a straight-line basis over 
the requisite service period. In accordance with FAS 123R 
implementation guidance issued by the staff of the Securities 
and Exchange Commission, the company accelerates the vest- 
ing period for retirement-eligible employees in accordance with 
vesting provisions of the company’s share-based compensation 
programs for awards issued after adoption of FAS 123R. As 
of December 31, 2005, there was $89 of total unrecognized 
before-tax compensation cost related to nonvested share-based 
compensation arrangements granted or restored under the 
plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted- 
average period of 2.3 years. 

At January 1, 2005, the number of LTIP performance 
units outstanding was equivalent to 2,673,482 shares. Dur- 
ing 2005, 709,900 units were granted, 1,012,932 units vested 
with cash proceeds distributed to recipients, and 24,434 units 
were forfeited. At December 31, 2005, units outstanding 
were 2,346,016, and the value of the liability recorded for 
these instruments was $83. In addition, outstanding stock 
appreciation rights that were awarded under various LTIP 
and former Texaco and Unocal programs totaled approxi- 
mately 800,000 equivalent shares as of December 31, 2005. 
A liability of $16 was recorded for these awards. 


Broad-Based Employee Stock Options In addition to the plans 
described above, Chevron granted all eligible employees stock 
options or equivalents in 1998. The options vested after two 
years, in February 2000, and expire after 10 years, in Febru- 
ary 2008. A total of 9,641,000 options were awarded with an 
exercise price of $38.15625 per share. 

The fair value of each option on the date of grant was 
estimated at $9.54 using the Black-Scholes model for the 
preceding 10 years. The assumptions used in the model, 
based on a 10-year average, were: a risk-free interest rate of 
7 percent, a dividend yield of 4.2 percent, an expected life of 
7 years and a volatility of 24.7 percent. 

At January 1, 2005, the number of broad-based 
employee stock options outstanding was 2,109,504. During 
2005, exercises of 397,500 shares and forfeitures of 29,100 
shares reduced outstanding options to 1,682,904. As of 
December 31, 2005, these instruments had an aggregate 
intrinsic value of $31 and the remaining contractual term of 
these options was 2.1 years. The total intrinsic value of these 
options exercised during 2005 and 2004 was $9 and $16, 
respectively. Exercises in 2003 were insignificant. 


NOTE 23. 


OTHER CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS 

Income Taxes The company calculates its income tax expense 
and liabilities quarterly. These liabilities generally are not 
finalized with the individual taxing authorities until several 
years after the end of the annual period for which income 
taxes have been calculated. The U.S. federal income tax lia- 
bilities have been settled through 1996 for Chevron (formerly 
ChevronTexaco Corporation) and 1997 for Chevron Global 


| NOTE 23. OTHER CONTINGENCIES AND | | | 
COMMITMENTS - Continued 


Energy Inc. (formerly Caltex Corporation), Unocal Corpora- 
tion (Unocal) and Texaco Inc. (Texaco). California franchise 
tax liabilities have been settled through 1991 for Chevron, 
1998 for Unocal and through 1987 for Texaco. Settlement of 
open tax years, as well as tax issues in other countries where 
the company conducts its businesses, is not expected to have 
a material effect on the consolidated financial position or 
liquidity of the company, and in the opinion of management, 
adequate provision has been made for income and franchise 
taxes for all years under examination or subject to future 
examination. 


Guarantees At December 31, 2005, the company and its 
subsidiaries provided, either directly or indirectly, guarantees 
of $985 for notes and other contractual obligations of affili- 
ated companies and $294 for third parties, as described by 
major category below. There are no material amounts being 
carried as liabilities for the company’s obligations under these 
guarantees. 

Of the $985 guarantees provided to affiliates, $806 
related to borrowings for capital projects or general corporate 
purposes. These guarantees were undertaken to achieve lower 
interest rates and generally cover the construction periods of 
the capital projects. Included in these amounts are Unocal- 
related guarantees of approximately $230 associated with a 
construction completion guarantee for the debt financing of 
Unocal’s equity interest in the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) 
crude oil pipeline project. Approximately 95 percent of the 
$806 guaranteed will expire between 2006 and 2010, with 
the remaining guarantees expiring by the end of 2015. Under 
the terms of the guarantees, the company would be required 
to fulfill the guarantee should an affiliate be in default of its 
loan terms, generally for the full amounts disclosed. There 
are no recourse provisions, and no assets are held as collateral 
for these guarantees. The other guarantees of $179 represent 
obligations in connection with pricing of power-purchase 
agreements for certain of the company’s cogeneration affili- 
ates. Under the terms of these guarantees, the company may 
be required to make payments under certain conditions if the 
affiliates do not perform under the agreements. There are no 
provisions for recourse to third parties, and no assets are held 
as collateral for these pricing guarantees. 

Of the $294 in guarantees provided to third par- 
ties, approximately $150 related to construction loans to 
host governments of certain of the company’s international 
upstream operations. The remaining guarantees of $144 were 
provided principally as conditions of sale of the company’s 
interest in certain operations, to provide a source of liquidity 
to the guaranteed parties and in connection with company 
marketing programs. No amounts of the company’s obliga- 
tions under these guarantees are recorded as liabilities. About 
85 percent of the $294 in guarantees expire by 2010, with 
the remainder expiring after 2010. The company would be 


required to perform under the terms of the guarantees should 
an entity be in default of its loan or contract terms, generally 
for the full amounts disclosed. Approximately $85 of the guar- 
antees have recourse provisions, which enable the company to 
recover any payments made under the terms of the guarantees 
from securities held over the guaranteed parties’ assets. 

At December 31, 2005, Chevron also had outstanding 
guarantees for about $190 of Equilon debt and leases. Follow- 
ing the February 2002 disposition of its interest in Equilon, 
the company received an indemnification from Shell Oil 
Company (Shell) for any claims arising from the guarantees. 
The company has not recorded a liability for these guarantees. 
Approximately 50 percent of the amounts guaranteed will 
expire within the 2006 through 2010 period, with the guaran- 
tees of the remaining amounts expiring by 2019. 


Indemnifications The company provided certain indemni- 
ties of contingent liabilities of Equilon and Motiva to Shell 
and Saudi Refining, Inc., in connection with the February 
2002 sale of the company’s interests in those investments. 
The company would be required to perform if the indemni- 
fied liabilities become actual losses. Were that to occur, the 
company could be required to make future payments up to 
$300. Through the end of 2005, the company paid approxi- 
mately $38 under these indemnities. The company expects to 
receive additional requests for indemnification payments in 
the future. 

The company has also provided indemnities relating to 
contingent environmental liabilities related to assets origi- 
nally contributed by Texaco to the Equilon and Motiva joint 
ventures and environmental conditions that existed prior to 
the formation of Equilon and Motiva or that occurred dur- 
ing the periods of Texaco’s ownership interest in the joint 
ventures. In general, the environmental conditions or events 
that are subject to these indemnities must have arisen prior 
to December 2001. Claims relating to Equilon indemnities 
must be asserted either as early as February 2007, or no later 
than February 2009, and claims relating to Motiva must be 
asserted no later than February 2012. Under the terms of the 
indemnities, there is no maximum limit on the amount of 
potential future payments. The company has not recorded 
any liabilities for possible claims under these indemnities. 
The company posts no assets as collateral and has made no 
payments under the indemnities. 

The amounts payable for the indemnities described 
above are to be net of amounts recovered from insurance 
carriers and others and net of liabilities recorded by Equilon 
or Motiva prior to September 30, 2001, for any applicable 
incident. 

In the acquisition of Unocal, the company assumed certain 
indemnities relating to contingent environmental liabilities 
associated with assets of Unocal’s 76 Products Company busi- 
ness that existed prior to its sale in 1997. Under the terms of 
these indemnities, there is no maximum limit on the amount 
of potential future payments by the company; however, the 
purchaser shares certain costs under this indemnity up to an 
aggregate cap of $200. Claims relating to these indemnities 
must be asserted by April 2022. Through the end of 2005, 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 81 


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


NOTE 23. OTHER CONTINGENCIES AND 
COMMITMENTS - Continued 


approximately $113 had been applied to the cap, which includes 
payments made by either Unocal or Chevron totaling $80. 


Securitization The company securitizes certain retail and 
trade accounts receivable in its downstream business through 
the use of qualifying Special Purpose Entities (SPEs). At 
December 31, 2005, approximately $1,200, representing 
about 7 percent of Chevron’s total current accounts receiv- 
ables balance, were securitized. Chevron’s total estimated 
financial exposure under these securitizations at December 31, 
2005, was approximately $60. These arrangements have the 
effect of accelerating Chevron’s collection of the securitized 
amounts. In the event that the SPEs experience major defaults 
in the collection of receivables, Chevron believes that it would 
have no loss exposure connected with third-party investments 
in these securitizations. 


Long-Term Unconditional Purchase Obligations and 
Commitments, Throughput Agreements, and Take-or-Pay 
Agreements The company and its subsidiaries have certain 
other contingent liabilities relating to long-term uncondi- 
tional purchase obligations and commitments, throughput 
agreements, and take-or-pay agreements, some of which relate 
to suppliers’ financing arrangements. The agreements typi- 
cally provide goods and services, such as pipeline and storage 
capacity, utilities, and petroleum products, to be used or sold 
in the ordinary course of the company’s business. The aggre- 
gate approximate amounts of required payments under these 
various commitments are: 2006 — $2,200; 2007 — $1,900; 
2008 — $1,800; 2009 — $1,800; 2010 — $500; 2011 and 
after — $3,800. Total payments under the agreements 
were approximately $2,100 in 2005, $1,600 in 2004 and 
$1,400 in 2003. 

The most significant take-or-pay agreement calls for 
the company to purchase approximately 55,000 barrels per 
day of refined products from an equity affiliate refiner in 
Thailand. This purchase agreement is in conjunction with the 
financing of a refinery owned by the affiliate and expires in 
2009. The future estimated commitments under this contract 
are: 2006 — $1,300; 2007 — $1,300; 2008 — $1,300; and 
2009 — $1,300. Under the terms of a 2004 agreement, the 
company exercised its option in 2005 to acquire additional 
regasification capacity at the Sabine Pass Liquefied Natural 
Gas Terminal. Payments of $2.5 billion over the 20-year 
period are expected to commence in 2009. 


Minority Interests The company has commitments of approx- 
imately $200 related to minority interests in subsidiary 
companies. 


Environmental The company is subject to loss contingencies 


pursuant to environmental laws and regulations that in the 
future may require the company to take action to correct or 
y req y 


82 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


ameliorate the effects on the environment of prior release 
of chemical or petroleum substances, including MTBE, 
by the company or other parties. Such contingencies may 
exist for various sites, including, but not limited to, federal 
Superfund sites and analogous sites under state laws, refin- 
eries, crude oil fields, service stations, terminals, and land 
development areas, whether operating, closed or divested. 
These future costs are not fully determinable due to such 
factors as the unknown magnitude of possible contamina- 
tion, the unknown timing and extent of the corrective 
actions that may be required, the determination of the 
company’s liability in proportion to other responsible par- 
ties, and the extent to which such costs are recoverable 
from third parties. 

Although the company has provided for known 
environmental obligations that are probable and reason- 
ably estimable, the amount of additional future costs 
may be material to results of operations in the period in 
which they are recognized. The company does not expect 
these costs will have a material effect on its consolidated 
financial position or liquidity. Also, the company does 
not believe its obligations to make such expenditures have 
had or will have any significant impact on the company’s 
competitive position relative to other U.S. or international 
petroleum or chemical companies. 

Chevron’s environmental reserve as of December 31, 
2005, was $1,469. Included in this balance were liabilities 
assumed in connection with the acquisition of Unocal, 
which relate primarily to sites that had been previously 
divested or closed by Unocal. The sites included, but were 
not limited to, former refineries, transportation and distri- 
bution facilities and service stations, crude oil and natural 
gas fields and mining operations, as well as active mining 
operations. 

The company manages environmental liabilities 
under specific sets of regulatory requirements, which in 
the United States include the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act and various state and local regulations. No 
single remediation site at year-end 2005 had a recorded 
liability that was material to the company’s financial posi- 
tion, results of operations or liquidity. 

Included in the year-end 2005 balance was $139 
related to sites for which Chevron had been identified 
by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or other 
regulatory agencies under the provisions of the federal 
Superfund law or analogous state laws as a “poten- 
tially responsible party” or otherwise involved in the 
remediation. 

Of the remaining year-end 2005 environmental 
reserves balance of $1,330, $855 related to approximately 
2,250 sites for the company’s U.S. downstream opera- 
tions, including refineries and other plants, marketing 
locations (i.e., service stations and terminals) and pipe- 
lines. The remaining $475 was associated with various 
sites in the international downstream ($101), upstream 
($257), chemicals ($50) and other ($67). Liabilities at all 
sites, whether operating, closed or divested, were primar- 
ily associated with the company’s plans and activities to 


| NOTE 23. OTHER CONTINGENCIES AND | | | 
COMMITMENTS - Continued 


remediate soil or groundwater contamination or both. These 
and other activities include one or more of the following: site 
assessment; soil excavation; offsite disposal of contaminants; 
onsite containment, remediation and/or extraction of petroleum 
hydrocarbon liquid and vapor from soil; groundwater extrac- 
tion and treatment; and monitoring of the natural attenuation 
of the contaminants. 


Global Operations Chevron and its affiliates conduct business 
activities in approximately 180 countries. Areas in which the 
company and its affiliates have significant operations include 
the United States, Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom, 
Norway, Denmark, France, the Netherlands, the Partitioned 
Neutral Zone between Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, Republic 
of the Congo, Angola, Nigeria, Chad, South Africa, the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Indonesia, Bangladesh, the 
Philippines, Myanmar, Singapore, China, Thailand, Vietnam, 
Cambodia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Venezuela, Argentina, 
Brazil, Colombia, Trinidad and Tobago, and South Korea. 
The company’s Caspian Pipeline Consortium (CPC) affili- 
ate operates in Russia and Kazakhstan. The company’s 
Tengizchevroil (TCO) affiliate operates in Kazakhstan. 
Through an affiliate, the company participates in the develop- 
ment of the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) pipeline through 
Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey. Also through an affiliate, the 
company has an interest in the Chad/Cameroon pipeline. The 
company’s Petrolera Ameriven affiliate operates the Hamaca 
project in Venezuela. The company’s CPChem affiliate manu- 
factures and markets a wide range of petrochemicals on a 
worldwide basis, with manufacturing facilities in the United 
States, Puerto Rico, Singapore, China, South Korea, Saudi 
Arabia, Qatar, Mexico and Belgium. 

The company’s operations, particularly exploration and 
production, can be affected by changing economic, regulatory 
and political environments in the various countries in which it 
operates, including the United States. As has occurred in the 
past, actions could be taken by host governments to increase 
public ownership of the company’s partially or wholly owned 
businesses or assets or to impose additional taxes or royalties 
on the company’s operations or both. 

In certain locations, host governments have imposed 
restrictions, controls and taxes, and in others, political 
conditions have existed that may threaten the safety of 
employees and the company’s continued presence in those 
countries. Internal unrest, acts of violence or strained rela- 
tions between a host government and the company or 
other governments may affect the company’s operations. 
Those developments have at times significantly affected the 
company’s related operations and results and are carefully 
considered by management when evaluating the level of 
current and future activity in such countries. 


Equity Redetermination For oil and gas producing operations, 
ownership agreements may provide for periodic reassessments 
of equity interests in estimated crude oil and natural gas 
reserves. These activities, individually or together, may result 
in gains or losses that could be material to earnings in any 
given period. One such equity redetermination process 
has been under way since 1996 for Chevron’s interests in 
four producing zones at the Naval Petroleum Reserve at 
Elk Hills, California, for the time when the remaining inter- 
ests in these zones were owned by the U.S. Department of 
Energy. A wide range remains for a possible net settlement 
amount for the four zones. Chevron estimates its maximum 
possible net before-tax liability at approximately $200. At 
the same time, a possible maximum net amount that could 
be owed to Chevron is estimated at about $50. The timing 
of the settlement and the exact amount within this range of 
estimates are uncertain. 


Other Contingencies Chevron receives claims from and sub- 
mits claims to customers, trading partners, U.S. federal, state 
and local regulatory bodies, host governments, contractors, 
insurers, and suppliers. The amounts of these claims, indi- 
vidually and in the aggregate, may be significant and take 
lengthy periods to resolve. 

The company and its affiliates also continue to review 
and analyze their operations and may close, abandon, sell, 
exchange, acquire or restructure assets to achieve operational 
or strategic benefits and to improve competitiveness and prof 
itability. These activities, individually or together, may result 
in gains or losses in future periods. 


NOTE 24. 


ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS 
The company adopted Financial Accounting Standards 
Board Statement (FASB) No. 143, “Accounting for Asset 
Retirement Obligations,” (FAS 143), effective January 1, 
2003. This accounting standard applies to the fair value of 
a liability for an asset retirement obligation (ARO) that is 
recorded when there is a legal obligation associated with the 
retirement of a tangible long-lived asset and the liability can 
be reasonably estimated. Obligations associated with the 
retirement of these assets require recognition in certain cir- 
cumstances: (1) the present value of a liability and offsetting 
asset for an ARO, (2) the subsequent accretion of that liability 
and depreciation of the asset, and (3) the periodic review 
of the ARO liability estimates and discount rates. FAS 143 
primarily affects the company’s accounting for crude oil and 
natural gas producing assets and differs in several respects 
from previous accounting under FAS 19, “Financial Account- 
ing and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies.” 

In the first quarter 2003, the company recorded a 
net after-tax charge of $200 for the cumulative effect of 
the adoption of FAS 143, including the company’s share of 
amounts attributable to equity affiliates. The cumulative-effect 
adjustment also increased the following balance sheet catego- 
ries: “Properties, plant and equipment,” $2,568; “Accrued 
liabilities,” $115; and “Deferred credits and other noncurrent 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 83 


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


| NOTE 24. ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS - Continued | | | 


obligations,” $2,674. “Noncurrent deferred income taxes” 
decreased by $21. 

Upon adoption, no significant asset retirement obliga- 
tions associated with any legal obligations to retire refining, 
marketing and transportation (downstream) and chemical 
long-lived assets generally were recognized, as indeterminate 
settlement dates for the asset retirements prevented estima- 
tion of the fair value of the associated ARO. The company 
performs periodic reviews of its downstream and chemical 
long-lived assets for any changes in facts and circumstances 
that might require recognition of a retirement obligation. 

Other than the cumulative-effect net charge, the effect 
of the new accounting standard on net income in 2003 
was not materially different from what the result would have 
been under FAS 19 accounting. Included in “Depreciation, 
depletion and amortization” were $52 related to the depre- 
ciation of the ARO asset and $132 related to the accretion of 
the ARO liability. 

In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation 
No. 47, “Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obliga- 
tions — An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143,” (FIN 
47), which was effective for the company on December 31, 
2005. FIN 47 clarifies that the phrase “conditional asset 
retirement obligation,” as used in FAS 143, refers to a legal 
obligation to perform an asset retirement activity for which 
the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on 
a future event that may or may not be within the control 
of the company. The obligation to perform the asset retire- 
ment activity is unconditional even though uncertainty 
exists about the timing and/or method of settlement. 
Uncertainty about the timing and/or method of settlement 
of a conditional asset retirement obligation should be fac- 
tored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient 
information exists. FAS 143 acknowledges that in some 
cases, sufficient information may not be available to reason- 
ably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. 
FIN 47 also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient 
information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset 
retirement obligation. In adopting FIN 47, the company did 
not recognize any additional liabilities for conditional retire- 
ment obligations due to an inability to reasonably estimate the 
fair value of those obligations because of their indeterminate 
settlement dates. 


84 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


The following table indicates the changes to the com- 
pany’s before-tax asset retirement obligations in 2005, 2004 
and 2003: 


2005 2004 2003 
Balance at January 1 $ 2,878 $ 2,856  $ 2,797* 
Liabilities assumed in the 
Unocal acquisition 1,216 - - 
Liabilities incurred 90 37 14 
Liabilities settled (172) (426) (128) 
Accretion expense 187 93 132 
Revisions in estimated cash flows 105 318 41 
Balance at December 31 $ 4,304 $ 2,878 $ 2,856 


*Includes the cumulative effect of the accounting change. 


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 


Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


NOTE 25. 


EARNINGS PER SHARE 

Basic earnings per share (EPS) is based upon net income 
less preferred stock dividend requirements and includes 
the effects of deferrals of salary and other compensation 


awards that are invested in Chevron stock units by certain 


officers and employees of the company and the company’s 


share of stock transactions of affiliates, which, under the 


applicable accounting rules, may be recorded directly to the 


company’s retained earnings instead of net income. Diluted 
EPS includes the effects of these items as well as the dilutive 
effects of outstanding stock options awarded under the com- 


pany’s stock option programs (see Note 22, “Stock Options 


and Other Share-Based Compensation” beginning on page 
78). The following table sets forth the computation of basic 


and diluted EPS: 
Year ended December 31 
2005 2004 2003 
BASIC EPS CALCULATION 
Income from continuing operations $ 14,099 $ 13,034 $ 7,382 
Add: Dividend equivalents paid on stock units 2 3 2 
Add: Affiliated stock transaction recorded to retained earnings! - - 170 
Income from continuing operations available to common stockholders $ 14,101 $ 13,037 $ 7,554 
Income from discontinued operations - 294 44 
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle? = = (196) 
Net income available to common stockholders — Basic $ 14,101 $ 13,331 $ 7,402 
Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding? 2,143 2,114 2,123 
Add: Deferred awards held as stock units 1 2 2 
Total weighted-average number of common shares outstanding 2,144 2,116 2,125 
Per-Share of Common Stock 
Income from continuing operations available to common stockholders $ 6.58 $ 6.16 $ 3.55 
Income from discontinued operations - 0.14 0.02 
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle = a (0.09) 
Net income — Basic $ 6.58 $ 6.30 $ 3.48 
DILUTED EPS CALCULATION 
Income from continuing operations $ 14,099 $ 13,034 $ 7,382 
Add: Dividend equivalents paid on stock units 2 3 2 
Add: Affiliated stock transaction recorded to retained earnings! - - 170 
Add: Dilutive effects of employee stock-based awards 2 1 2 
Income from continuing operations available to common stockholders $ 14,103 $ 13,038 $ 7,556 
Income from discontinued operations - 294 44 
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle? - - (196) 
Net income available to common stockholders — Diluted $ 14,103 $ 13,332 $ 7,404 
Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding? 2,143 2,114 2,123 
Add: Deferred awards held as stock units 1 2 2 
Add: Dilutive effect of employee stock-based awards ll 6 2 
Total weighted-average number of common shares outstanding 2,155 2,122 2,127 
Per-Share of Common Stock 
Income from continuing operations available to common stockholders $ 6.54 $ 6.14 $ 3.55 
Income from discontinued operations - 0.14 0.02 
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle - - (0.09) 
Net income — Diluted $ 6.54 $ 6.28 $ 3.48 


1 2003 amount is the company’s share of a capital stock transaction of its Dynegy affiliate, which, under the applicable accounting rules, was recorded directly to retained earnings. 
2 Includes a net loss of $200 for the adoption of FAS 143 and a net gain of $4 for the company’s share of Dynegy’s cumulative effect of adoption of EITF 02-3. 
3 Share amounts in all periods reflect a two-for-one stock split effected as a 100 percent stock dividend in September 2004. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 85 


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 


NOTE 26. 


COMMON STOCK SPLIT 

On July 28, 2004, the company’s Board of Directors approved 
a two-for-one stock split in the form of a stock dividend to 
the company’s stockholders of record on August 19, 2004, 
with distribution of shares on September 10, 2004. The 
total number of authorized common stock shares and associ- 
ated par value were unchanged by this action. All per-share 
amounts in the financial statements reflect the stock split for 
all periods presented. The effect of the common stock split is 
reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in “Common 
stock” and “Capital in excess of par value.” 


86 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


NOTE 27. 


OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Net income in 2004 included gains of approximately $1.2 bil- 

lion relating to the sale of nonstrategic upstream properties. 
Other financial information is as follows: 


Year ended December 31 

2005 2004 2003 

Total financing interest and debt costs $ 542 $ 450 $ 549 
Less: Capitalized interest 60 44 75 
Interest and debt expense $ 482 $ 406 $ 474 
Research and development expenses $ 316 $ 242 $ 228 
Foreign currency effects* $ (61) $ (81) $ (404) 


*Includes $(2), $(13) and $(96) in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, for the company’s 
share of equity affiliates’ foreign currency effects. 


The excess of market value over the carrying value of 
inventories for which the LIFO method is used was $4,846, 
$3,036 and $2,106 at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, 
respectively. Market value is generally based on average 
acquisition costs for the year. LIFO profits of $34, $36 and 
$82 were included in net income for the years 2005, 2004 
and 2003, respectively. 


FIVE-YEAR OPERATING SUMMARY! 
Unaudited 


Worldwide — Includes Equity in Affiliates 


Thousands of barrels per day, except natural gas data, 


which is millions of cubic feet per day 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 
UNITED STATES 
Gross production of crude oil and natural gas liquids 499 555 619 665 670 
Net production of crude oil and natural gas liquids 455 505 562 602 614 
Gross production of natural gas 1,860 2,191 2,619 2,945 3,167 
Net production of natural gas” 1,634 1,873 2,228 2,405 2,706 
Net production of oil equivalents 727 817 933 1,003 1,065 
Refinery input? 846 914 951 979 1,336 
Sales of refined products? 1,473 1,506 1,436 1,600 2,500 
Sales of natural gas liquids 151 177 194 241 185 
Total sales of petroleum products 1,624 1,683 1,630 1,841 2,685 
Sales of natural gas 5,449 4,518 4,304 5,891 8,191 
INTERNATIONAL 
Gross production of crude oil and natural gas liquids 1,676 1,645 1,681 1,765 1,852 
Net production of crude oil and natural gas liquids 1,214 1,205 1,246 1,295 1,345 
Other produced volumes 143 140 114 97 105 
Gross production of natural gas 2,726 2,203 2,203 2,120 1,949 
Net production of natural gas” 2,599 2,085 2,064 1,971 1,711 
Net production of oil equivalents 1,790 1,692 1,704 1,720 1,735 
Refinery input 1,038 1,044 1,040 1,100 1,136 
Sales of refined products 2,295 2,402 2,302 2,175 2,454 
Sales of natural gas liquids 108 105 107 131 115 
Total sales of petroleum products 2,403 2,507 2,409 2,306 2,569 
Sales of natural gas 2,289 1,885 1,951 3,131 2,675 
TOTAL WORLDWIDE 
Gross production of crude oil and natural gas liquids 2,175 2,200 2,300 2,430 2,522 
Net production of crude oil and natural gas liquids 1,669 1,710 1,808 1,897 1,959 
Other produced volumes 143 140 114 97 105 
Gross production of natural gas 4,586 4,394 4,822 5,065 5,116 
Net production of natural gas” 4,233 3,958 4,292 4,376 4,417 
Net production of oil equivalents 2,517 2,509 2,637 2,723 2,800 
Refinery input? 1,884 1,958 1,991 2,079 2,472 
Sales of refined products? 3,768 3,908 3,738 3,775 4,954 
Sales of natural gas liquids 259 282 301 372 300 
Total sales of petroleum products 4,027 4,190 4,039 4,147 5,254 
Sales of natural gas 7,738 6,403 6,255 9,022 10,866 
Worldwide — Excludes Equity in Affiliates 
Number of wells completed (net)4 

Oil and gas 1,396 1,307 1,472 1,349 1,698 

Dry 26 24 36 49 75 
Productive oil and gas wells (net)4 52,733 44,707 48,155 50,320 47,388 


' Gross production represents the company’s share of total production before deducting lessors’ royalties. Net production is gross production minus royalties paid to lessors. 
? Includes natural gas consumed on lease: 


United States 48 50 65 64 64 
International 332 293 268 256 262 
Total 380 343 333 320 326 


3 2001 includes sales volumes and refinery inputs of units sold as a condition of the Texaco merger. 
4 Net wells include wholly owned and the sum of fractional interests in partially owned wells. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 87 


FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY 
Unaudited 


Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 
COMBINED STATEMENT OF INCOME DATA 
REVENUES AND OTHER INCOME 
Total sales and other operating revenues $ 193,641 $ 150,865 $ 119,575 $ 98,340 $ 103,951 
Income from equity affiliates and other income 4,559 4,435 1,702 197 1,751 
TOTAL REVENUES AND OTHER INCOME 198,200 155,300 121,277 98,537 105,702 
TOTAL COSTS AND OTHER DEDUCTIONS 173,003 134,749 108,601 94,437 97,517 
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAXES 25,197 20,551 12,676 4,100 8,185 
INCOME TAX EXPENSE 11,098 7,517 5,294 2,998 4,310 
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 14,099 13,034 7,382 1,102 3,875 
INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS - 294 44 30 56 
INCOME BEFORE EXTRAORDINARY ITEM AND 
CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 14,099 13,328 7,426 1,132 3:95! 
Extraordinary loss, net of tax - 7 - - (643) 
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles - - (196) - - 
NET INCOME $ 14,099 $ 13,328 $ 7,230 $ 1,132 $ 3,288 
PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK! 
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS? 
— Basic $ 6.58 $ 6.16 $ 3.99 $ 0.52 $ 1.82 
— Diluted $ 6.54 $ 6.14 $ 3.55 $ 0.52 $ 1.82 
INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 
— Basic $ - $ 0.14 $ 0.02 $ 0.01 $ 0.03 
— Diluted $ oe $ 0.14 $ 0.02 $ 0.01 $ 0.03 
EXTRAORDINARY ITEM 
— Basic $ - $ - $ - $ - $ (0.30) 
— Diluted $ - $ - $ - $ a $ (0.30) 
CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 
— Basic $ - $ - $ (0.09) $ - $ - 
— Diluted $ - $ om $ (0.09) $ - $ - 
NET INCOME? 
— Basic $ 6.58 $ 6.30 $ 3.48 $ 0.53 $ 1.55 
— Diluted $ 6.54 6.28 3.48 $ 0.53 $ 1:55 
CASH DIVIDENDS PER SHARE $ 1.75 1.53 1.43 $ 1.40 $ 1.33 
COMBINED BALANCE SHEET DATA (AT DECEMBER 31) 
Current assets $ 34,336 $ 28,503 $ 19,426 $ 17,776 $ 18,327 
Noncurrent assets 91,497 64,705 62,044 59,583 59,245 
TOTAL ASSETS 125,833 93,208 81,470 77,359 77,572 
Short-term debt 739 816 1,703 5,358 8,429 
Other current liabilities 24,272 17,979 14,408 14,518 12,225 
Long-term debt and capital lease obligations 12,131 10,456 10,894 10,911 8,989 
Other noncurrent liabilities 26,015 18,727 18,170 14,968 13,971 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 63,157 47,978 45,175 45,755 43,614 
STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY $ 62,676 $ 45,230 $ 36,295 $ 31,604 $ 33,958 


' Per-share amounts in all periods reflect a two-for-one stock split effected as a 100 percent stock dividend in September 2004. 
2 The amount in 2003 includes a benefit of $0.08 for the company’s share of a capital stock transaction of its Dynegy Inc. affiliate, which, under the applicable accounting rules, was recorded 


directly to retained earnings and not included in net income for the period. 


88 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES | | Al [| | 
Unaudited 


In accordance with Statement of FAS 69, “Disclosures About estimated net proved reserve quantities; standardized mea- 
Oil and Gas Producing Activities,” this section provides sure of estimated discounted future net cash flows related to 
supplemental information on oil and gas exploration and proved reserves; and changes in estimated discounted future 
producing activities of the company in seven separate tables. net cash flows. The Africa geographic area includes activities 
Tables I through IV provide historical cost information per- principally in Nigeria, Angola, Chad, Republic of the Congo 
taining to costs incurred in exploration, property acquisitions and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The Asia-Pacific 
and development; capitalized costs; and results of operations. geographic area includes activities principally in Australia, 
Tables V through VII present information on the company’s Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, China, Kazakhstan, Myanmar, the 


TABLE | - COSTS INCURRED IN EXPLORATION, PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS AND DEVELOPMENT! 


Consolidated Companies 


United States International 
Gulf of Total Asia- Total __ Affiliated Companies 

Millions of dollars Calif. Mexico Other US. Africa Pacific Indonesia Other Int'l. Total TCO Hamaca 
YEAR ENDED DEC. 31, 2005 
Exploration 

Wells $ -— $ 452 $ 24 $ 476 $ 105 $ 38 o$ 9 $ 201 $ 353 $ 829 $ $ - 

Geological and geophysical - 67 - 67 96 28 10 68 202 269 - - 

Rentals and other - 93 8 101 24 58 12 T2 166 267 - - 

Total exploration = 612 32 644 225 124 31 341 721 1,365 - - 
Property acquisitions 

Proved — Unocal? - 1,608 2,388 3,996 30 6,609 637 1,790 9,066 13,062 = - 

Proved — Other? - 6 10 16 2 2 = 12 16 32 = = 

Unproved — Unocal - 819 295 1,114 11 2,209 821 38 3,079 4,193 - 7 

Unproved — Other - 17 6 23 67 - - 28 95 118 - - 

Total property acquisitions - 2,450 2,699 5,149 110 8,820 1,458 1,868 12,256 17,405 = - 
Development* 494 639 596 1,729 1,871 1,026 325 713 3,935 5,664 767 43 
ARO asset 13 41 5 59 21 62 57 13 153 212 = - 
TOTAL COSTSINCURRED $507 $3,742 $3,332 $7,581 $2,227 $10,032 $1,871 $2,935 $17,065 $ 24,646 $ 767 $ 43 
YEAR ENDED DEC. 31, 2004 
Exploration 

Wells $ -— $ 388 $ - $ 388 $ 116 $ 25 $ 2 $ 127 $ 270 $ 658 $ $ = 

Geological and geophysical - 47 2 49 103 10 12 46 171 220 ~ - 

Rentals and other - 43 3 46 52 47 1 53 153 199 - - 

Total exploration - 478 5 483 271 82 15 226 594 1,077 - - 
Property acquisitions 

Proved? - 6 1 7 111 16 - 4 131 138 = = 

Unproved - 29 - 29 82 - - 5 87 116 - - 

Total property acquisitions - 35 1 36 193 16 - 2 218 254 - - 
Development* 412 457 372 1,241 1,047 567 245 542 2,401 3,642 896 208 
ARO asset 1 9 3 13 10 53 158 85 306 319 - - 
TOTALCOSTSINCURRED $413 $ 979 $ 381 $1,773 $1,521 $ 718 $ 418 $ 862 $ 3,519 $ 5,292 $ 896 $ 208 
YEAR ENDED DEC. 31, 2003 
Exploration 

Wells $ -— $ 415 $ 9 $ 424 $ 116 $ 43 §$ 2 $ 72 $ 233 $ 657 $ = $ = 

Geological and geophysical - 16 23 39 75 9 5 30 119 158 - - 

Rentals and other _ 64 (20) 44 12 58 = 46 116 160 = = 

Total exploration - 495 12 507 203 110 7 148 468 975 - - 
Property acquisitions 

Proved? - 15 3 18 - 20 = wh 27 45 - - 

Unproved - 30 3 33 51 6 - 14 71 104 ~ - 

Total property acquisitions - 45 6 51 51 26 - 21 98 149 = - 
Development 264 434 350 1,048 974 605 363 461 2,403 3,451 551 199 
TOTAL COSTSINCURRED $264 $ 974 $ 368 $1,606 $1,228 $ 741 $ 370 $ 630 $ 2,969 $ 4,575 $ 551 $ 199 


! Includes costs incurred whether capitalized or expensed. Excludes general support equipment expenditures. See Note 24, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” beginning on page 83. 

2 Includes wells, equipment and facilities associated with proved reserves. Does not include properties acquired through property exchanges. 

3 Included in proved property acquisitions for Unocal are $845 of ARO assets, composed of: Gulf of Mexico $115; Other U.S. $271; Africa $9; Asia-Pacific $366; Indonesia $25; Other 
International $59. 

4 Includes $160 and $63 costs incurred prior to assignment of proved reserves in 2005 and 2004, respectively. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 89 


| Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Continued 


Partitioned Neutral Zone between Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, 
Papua New Guinea (sold in 2003), the Philippines, and 
Thailand. The international “Other” geographic category 
includes activities in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, 
Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Trinidad and 
Tobago, Venezuela, the United Kingdom, and other coun- 
tries. Amounts shown for affiliated companies are Chevron’s 


50 percent equity share of TCO, an exploration and produc- 


tion partnership operating in the Republic of Kazakhstan, 


TABLE II - CAPITALIZED COSTS RELATED TO OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES! 


Consolidated Companies 


United States 


International 


and a 30 percent equity share of Hamaca, an exploration and 
production partnership operating in Venezuela. 
Amounts in the tables exclude the cumulative effect 
adjustment for the adoption of FAS 143, “Asset Retirement 
Obligations,” discussed in Note 24, beginning on page 83. 


Gulf of Total Asia- Total Affiliated! Companies 

Millions of dollars Calif. Mexico Other US. Africa Pacific Indonesia Other Int'l. Total TCO Hamaca 
AT DEC. 31, 2005 
Unproved properties $ 769 $ 1,077 $ 397 $ 2,243 $ 407 $ 2,287 $ 645 $ 983 $ 4,322 $ 6565 $ 108 $ - 
Proved properties and 

related producing assets 9,530 17,871 11,103 38,504 8,169 14,308 4,441 9,259 36,177 74,681 2,259 1,212 
Support equipment 204 193 230 627 715 426 3,124 356 4,621 5,248 549 - 
Deferred exploratory wells = 284 5 289 245 154 173 248 820 1,109 - - 
Other uncompleted 

projects 149 782 209 1,140 2,878 790 427 946 5,041 6,181 2,332 - 
ARO asset? 16 412 364 792 235 620 265 368 1,488 2,280 5 1 
GROSS CAP. COSTS 10,668 20,619 12,308 43,595 12,649 18,585 9,075 12,160 52,469 96,064 5,253 1,213 
Unproved properties 

valuation 736 90 22 848 162 69 - 318 549 1,397 17 = 
Proved producing 

properties — 

Depreciation and 

depletion 6,813 13,866 5,943 26,622 4,132 3,915 2,895 5,533 16,475 43,097 455 90 
Support equipment 

depreciation 140 119 149 408 317 88 1,824 222 2,451 2,859 213 - 
ARO asset depreciation” 5 201 106 312 134 101 66 187 488 800 5 - 
Accumulated provisions 7,694 14,276 6,220 28,190 4,745 4,173 4,785 6,260 19,963 48,153 690 90 
NET CAPITALIZED COSTS $ 2,974 $ 6,343 $ 6,088 $15,405 $ 7,904 $14,412 $4,290 $ 5,900 $ 32,506 $47,911 $4,563 $1,123 
AT DEC. 31, 2004 
Unproved properties $ 769 $ 380 $ 109 $ 1,258 $ 322 $ 211 $ - $ 970 $ 1,503 $ 2,761 $ 108 $ - 
Proved properties and 

related producing assets 9,170 ~—-:16,610 8,660 34,440 7,188 7,485 3,643 8,961 27,277 ~—- 61,717 2,163 963 
Support equipment 211 175 208 594 513 127 3,030 361 4,031 4,625 496 = 
Deferred exploratory wells - 225 - 225 213 81 - 152 446 671 - - 
Other uncompleted 

projects 91 400 169 660 2,050 605 351 391 3,397 4,057 1,749 149 
ARO asset” 28 204 70 302 206 113 181 292. 792. 1,094 20 = 
GROSS CAP. COSTS 10,269 17,994 9,216 37,479 10,492 8,622 7,205 11,127 37,446 = 74,925 4,536 1,112 
Unproved properties 

valuation 734 111 27 872 118 67 - 294 479 1,351 15 - 
Proved producing 

properties — 

Depreciation and 

depletion 6,694 13,562 5,617 25,873 3,753 3,122 2,396 4,933 14,204 40,077 423 43 
Support equipment 

depreciation 148 107 139 394 268 60 1,802 206 2,336 2,730 190 - 
ARO asset depreciation” 24 174 64 262 128 49 36 148 361 623 5 = 
Accumulated provisions 7,600 13,954 5,847 27,401 4,267 3,298 4,234 5,581 17,380 44,781 633 43 
NET CAPITALIZED COSTS $ 2,669 $ 4,040 $ 3,369 $10,078 $ 6,225 $ 5,324 $2,971 $ 5,546 $ 20,066 $ 30,144 $3,903 $ 1,069 


' Includes assets held for sale. 
? See Note 24, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” beginning on page 83. 


90 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


| TABLE II - CAPITALIZED COSTS RELATED TO OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES'- Continued | | | 


Consolidated Companies 


United States International 
Gulf of Total Asia- Total Affiliated Companies 

Millions of dollars Calif. Mexico Other US. Africa Pacific Indonesia Other Invl. Total TCO Hamaca 
AT DEC. 31, 20037 
Unproved properties $ 769 $ 416 $ 131 $ 1,316 $ 290 $ 214 $ — $ 1,048 $ 1,552 $ 2,868 $ 108 $ = 
Proved properties and 

related producing assets 8,785 18,069 10,749 37,603 6,474 6,288 3,097 10,469 26,328 63,931 2,091 356 
Support equipment 200 200 277 677 519 100 3,016 374 4,009 4,686 425 - 
Deferred exploratory 

wells - 126 1 127 233 67 2 120 422 549 - - 
Other uncompleted 

projects 76 280 152 508 1,894 1,502 715 334 4,445 4,953 1,011 661 
ARO asset? 25 227 83 335 207 60 23 236 526 861 20 1 
GROSS CAP. COSTS 9,855 19,318 11,393 40,566 9,617 8,231 6,853 12,581 37,282 77,848 3,655 1,018 
Unproved properties 

valuation 731 138 43 912 101 59 1 310 471 1,383 12 - 
Proved producing 

properties — 

Depreciation and 

depletion 6,473 14,450 6,894 27,817 3,656 2,793 2,022 6,015 14,486 42,303 354 24 
Future equipment 

depreciation 141 133 180 454 237 68 1,784 200 2,289 2,743 160 = 
ARO asset depreciation? 23 186 79 288 133 36 19 148 336 624 4 = 
Accumulated provisions 7,368 14,907 7,196 29,471 4,127 2,956 3,826 6,673 17,582 47,053 530 24 


NET CAPITALIZED COSTS $ 2,487 $ 4,411 $ 4,197 $11,095 $5,490 $5,275 $3,027 $ 5,908 $19,700 $ 30,795 $3,125 $994 
' Includes assets held for sale. 


? 2003 reclassified to conform to 2005 presentation. 
3 See Note 24, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” beginning on page 83. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 91 


| Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Continued | | | 


TABLE III - RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES! 


The company’s results of operations from oil and gas 
producing activities for the years 2005, 2004 and 2003 are 


shown in the following table. Net income from exploration 
and production activities as reported on page 65 reflects 
income taxes computed on an effective rate basis. 


In accordance with FAS 69, income taxes in Table III are 
based on statutory tax rates, reflecting allowable deductions 


and tax credits. Interest income and expense are excluded 


from the results reported in Table II] and from the net 


income amounts on page 65. 


Consolidated Companies 


United States 


International 


Gulf of Total Asia- Total Affiliated Companies 
Millions of dollars Calif. Mexico Other US. Africa Pacific Indonesia Other Int'l. Total TEO Hamaca 
YEAR ENDED DEC. 31, 2005 
Revenues from net 
production 
Sales $ 337 $1,576 $3,174 $5,087 $2,142 $2,941 $ 539 $ 2,668 $ 8,290 $13,377 $2,307 $ 666 
Transfers 3,497 2,127 1,395 7,019 3,615 3,179 1,986 2,607 11,387 18,406 - - 
Total 3,834 3,703 4,569 12,106 5,757 6,120 2,525 5,275 19,677 31,783 2,307 666 
Production expenses 
excluding taxes (916) (638) (777) (2,331) (558) (570) (660) (596) (2,384) (4,715) (152) (82) 
Taxes other than on 
income (65) (41) (384) (490) (48) (189) (1) (195) (433) (923) (27) - 
Proved producing 
properties: Depreciation 
and depletion (253) (936) (520) (1,709) (414) (852) (550) (672) (2,488) (4,197) (83) (46) 
Accretion expense” (13) (35) (46) (94) (22) (20) (15) (25) (82) (176) (1) = 
Exploration expenses = (307) (13) (320) (117) (90) (26) (190) (423) (743) - - 
Unproved properties 
valuation (3) (32) (4) (39) (50) (8) = (24) (82) (121) - - 
Other income (expense)? 2 (354) (140) (492) (243) (182) 182 280 37 (455) (9) 8 
Results before 
income taxes 2,586 1,360 2,685 6,631 4,305 4,209 1,455 3,853 13,822 20,453 2,035 546 
Income tax expense (913) (482) (953) (2,348) (3,430) (2,264) (644) (1,938) (8,276) (10,624) (611) (186) 
RESULTS OF PRODUCING 
OPERATIONS $ 1,673 $ 878 $1,732 $4,283 $ 875 $1,945 $ 811 $1,915 $ 5,546 $ 9,829 $1,424 $360 
YEAR ENDED DEC. 31, 2004 
Revenues from net 
production 
Sales $ 251 $1,925 $ 2,163 $ 4,339 $1,321 $1,191 $ 256 $ 2,481 $ 5,249 $ 9,588 $ 1,619 $ 205 
Transfers 2,651 1,768 1,224 5,643 2,645 2,265 1,613 1,903 8,426 14,069 - - 
Total 2,902 3,693 3,387 9,982 3,966 3,456 1,869 4,384 13,675 23,657 1,619 205 
Production expenses 
excluding taxes (710) (547) (697) (1,954) (574) (431) (591) (544) (2,140) ~—_ (4,094) (143) (53) 
Taxes other than on 
income (57) (45) (321) (423) (24) (138) (1) (134) (297) (720) (26) = 
Proved producing 
properties: Depreciation 
and depletion (232) (774) (384) (1,390) (367) (401) (393) (798) (1,959) (3,349) (104) (4) 
Accretion expense” (12) (25) (19) (56) (22) (8) (13) 1l (32) (88) (2) = 
Exploration expenses = (227) (6) (233) (235) (69) (17) (144) (465) (698) - - 
Unproved properties 
valuation (3) (29) (4) (36) (23) (8) - (25) (56) (92) - 7 
Other income (expense)? 14 24 474 512 49 10 12 1,028 1,099 1,611 (7) (58) 
Results before 
income taxes 1,902 2,070 2,430 6,402 2,770 2,411 866 3,778 9,825 16,227 1,337 90 
Income tax expense (703) (765) (898) (2,366) (2,036) (1,395) (371) (1,759) (5,561) (7,927) (401) — 
RESULTS OF PRODUCING 
OPERATIONS $ 1,199 $ 1,305 $ 1,532 $ 4,036 $ 734 $1,016 $ 495 $ 2,019 $ 4,264 $ 8300 $ 936 $ 90 


! The value of owned production consumed on lease as fuel has been eliminated from revenues and production expenses, and the related volumes have been deducted from net production in cal- 
culating the unit average sales price and production cost. This has no effect on the results of producing operations. 

7 Represents accretion of ARO liability. Refer to Note 24, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” beginning on page 83. 

3 Includes net sulfur income, foreign currency transaction gains and losses, certain significant impairment write-downs in 2004 and 2003, miscellaneous expenses, etc. Also includes net income 
from related oil and gas activities that do not have oil and gas reserves attributed to them (for example, net income from technical and operating service agreements) and items identified in the 
Management's Discussion and Analysis on pages 31 through 35. Does not include results for LNG-related activities. 


92 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


| TABLE Ill - RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES'- Continued | | | 


Consolidated Companies 


United States International 
Gulf of Total Asia- Total Affiliated Companies 
Millions of dollars Calif. Mexico Other UWS. Africa Pacific Indonesia Other Int'l. Total TCO Hamaca 
YEAR ENDED DEC. 31, 2003? 
Revenues from net 

production 

Sales $ 261 $2,197 $2,049 $4,507 $ 1,339 $1,442 $ 55 $2,556 $ 5,392 $ 9,899 $ 1,116 $ 104 

Transfers 2,085 1,740 1,096 4,921 1,835 1,738 1,566 1,356 6,495 11,416 - - 

Total 2,346 3,937 3,145 9,428 3,174 3,180 1,621 3,912 11,887 21,315 1,116 104 
Production expenses 

excluding taxes (631) (578) (750) (1,959) (505) (331) (616) (669) (2,121) (4,080 (117) (20) 
Taxes other than on 

income (28) (48) (280) (356) (22) (126) (1) (100) (249) 605 (29) - 
Proved producing properties: 

Depreciation and depletion (224) (878 (430) (1,532) (327) (398) (314) (846) (1,885) (3,417 (97) (4) 
Accretion expense? (12) (37 (20) (69) (20) (5) (8) (26) (59) 128 (2) - 
Exploration expenses (2) (168 (23) (193) (123) (130) (8) (117) (378) 571 - - 
Unproved properties 

valuation - (16 (4) (20) (20) (9) - (41) (70) (90 = = 
Other (expense) income (18) (104 (51) (173) (173) (342) 2. (175) (688) 861 (4) (35) 

Results before 

income taxes 1,431 2,108 1,587 5,126 1,984 1,839 676 1,938 6,437 11,563 867 45 
Income tax expense (528) (777 (585) (1,890) (1,410) = (1,158) (289) (831) (3,688) (5,578 (260) - 
RESULTS OF PRODUCING 

OPERATIONS $ 903 $1,331 $1,002 $3,236 $ 574 $ 681 $ 387 $1,107 $ 2,749 $ 5,985 $ 607 $ 45 


! The value of owned production consumed on lease as fuel has been eliminated from revenues and production expenses, and the related volumes have been deducted from net production in 
calculating the unit average sales price and production cost. This has no effect on the results of producing operations. 

? 2003 includes certain reclassifications to conform to 2005 presentation. 

3 Represents accretion of ARO liability. Refer to Note 24, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” beginning on page 83. 

4 Includes net sulfur income, foreign currency transaction gains and losses, certain significant impairment write-downs, miscellaneous expenses, etc. Also includes net income from related oil 


and gas activities that do not have oil and gas reserves attributed to them (for example, net income from technical and operating service agreements) and items identified in the Management’s 
Discussion and Analysis on pages 31 through 35. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 93 


| Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Continued 


TABLE IV - RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES - UNIT PRICES AND COSTS"2 


Consolidated Companies 


United States 


International 


Gulf of Total Asia- Total Affiliated Companies 
Calif. Mexico Other US. Africa Pacific Indonesia Other Int'l. Total TCO Hamaca 
YEAR ENDED DEC. 31, 2005 
Average sales prices 
Liquids, per barrel $ 45.24 $48.80 $ 48.29 $46.97 $50.54 $45.88 $4440 $48.61 $ 47.83 $47.56 $45.59 $ 45.89 
Natural gas, per 
thousand cubic feet 6.94 8.43 6.90 7.43 0.04 3.59 5.74 3.31 3.48 5.18 0.61 0.26 
Average production 
costs, per barrel 10.74 8.55 7.57 8.88 4.72 3.38 11.28 4.32 4.93 6.32 2.45 5.53 
YEAR ENDED DEC. 31, 2004 
Average sales prices 
Liquids, per barrel $ 33.43 $34.69 $ 3461 $34.12 $ 3485 $ 31.34 $ 31.12 $3458 $ 33.33 $33.60 $ 30.23 $ 23.32 
Natural gas, per 
thousand cubic feet 5.18 6.08 5.07 51 0.04 3.41 3.88 2.68 2.90 4.27 0.65 0.27 
Average production 
costs, per barrel 8.14 5.26 6.65 6.60 4.89 3.50 9.69 3.47 4.67 5.43 2.31 6.10 
YEAR ENDED DEC. 31, 2003 
Average sales prices 
Liquids, per barrel $ 25.77 $27.89 $ 2648 $26.66 $ 28.54 $ 2466 $ 25.10 $27.56 $ 26.70 $2669 $22.07 $ 17.06 
Natural gas, per 
thousand cubic feet 5.04 5.56 4.51 5.01 0.04 3.64 2.26 2.58 2.87 4.08 0.68 0.33 
Average production 
costs, per barrel? 7.01 4.47 6.40 5.82 4.42 2.49 9.30 3.99 4.4] 4.99 2.04 3.24 


! The value of owned production consumed on lease as fuel has been eliminated from revenues and production expenses, and the related volumes have been deducted from net 
production in calculating the unit average sales price and production cost. This has no effect on the results of producing operations. 


? Natural gas converted to oil-equivalent gas (OEG) barrels at a rate of 6 MCF = 1 OEG barrel. 


3 Conformed to 2005 presentation to exclude taxes. 


TABLE V - RESERVE QUANTITY INFORMATION 


Reserves Governance The company has adopted a compre- 
hensive reserves and resource classification system modeled 
after a system developed and approved by the Society of 
Petroleum Engineers, the World Petroleum Congress and 
the American Association of Petroleum Geologists. The 
system classifies recoverable hydrocarbons into six categories 
based on their status at the time of reporting — three deemed 
commercial and three noncommercial. Within the com- 
mercial classification are proved reserves and two categories 
of unproved, probable and possible. The noncommercial 
categories are also referred to as contingent resources. For 
reserves estimates to be classified as proved, they must meet 
all SEC and company standards. 

Proved reserves are the estimated quantities that geologic 
and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty 
to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under 
existing economic and operating conditions. Net proved 
reserves exclude royalties and interests owned by others and 
reflect contractual arrangements and royalty obligations in 
effect at the time of the estimate. 

Proved reserves are classified as either developed or 
undeveloped. Proved developed reserves are the quantities 
expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing 
equipment and operating methods. 


94 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


Due to the inherent uncertainties and the limited nature 
of reservoir data, estimates of underground reserves are sub- 
ject to change as additional information becomes available. 

Proved reserves are estimated by company asset teams 
composed of earth scientists and engineers. As part of the 
internal control process related to reserves estimation, the 
company maintains a Reserves Advisory Committee (RAC) 
that is chaired by the corporate reserves manager, who is a 
member of a corporate department that reports directly to 
the executive vice president responsible for the company’s 
worldwide exploration and production activities. All of the 
RAC members are knowledgeable in SEC guidelines for 
proved reserves classification. The RAC coordinates its activi- 
ties through two operating company-level reserves managers. 
These two reserves managers are not members of the RAC so 
as to preserve the corporate-level independence. 

The RAC has the following primary responsibilities: 
provide independent reviews of the business units’ recom- 
mended reserve changes; confirm that proved reserves are 
recognized in accordance with SEC guidelines; determine 
that reserve volumes are calculated using consistent and 
appropriate standards, procedures and technology; and 
maintain the Corporate Reserves Manual, which provides 
standardized procedures used corporatewide for classifying 
and reporting hydrocarbon reserves. 


| TABLE V - RESERVE QUANTITY INFORMATION - Continued | | | 


During the year, the RAC is represented in meetings 
with each of the company’s upstream business units to review 
and discuss reserve changes recommended by the various 
asset teams. Major changes are also reviewed with the com- 
pany’s Strategy and Planning Committee and the Executive 
Committee, whose members include the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer. The company’s annual 
reserve activity is also reviewed with the Board of Directors. 

If major changes to reserves were to occur between the annual 
reviews, those matters would also be discussed with the Board. 
RAC subteams also conduct in-depth reviews during 

the year of many of the fields that have the largest proved 
reserves quantities. These reviews include an examination of 
the proved reserve records and documentation of their align- 
ment with the Corporate Reserves Manual. 

Reserve Quantities At December 31, 2005, oil-equivalent 
reserves for the company’s consolidated operations totaled 
9.0 billion barrels. (Refer to page 24 for the definition of oil- 
equivalent reserves.) Nearly 22 percent of the total was in the 
United States. Year-end reserves of approximately 1.4 billion 
barrels were associated with the properties obtained as part of 
the August 2005 acquisition of Unocal. For the company’s 
interests in equity affiliates, oil-equivalent reserves totaled 
2.9 billion barrels, 84 percent of which was associated with 
the company’s 50 percent ownership in TCO. 

Aside from the TCO operations, no single property 
accounted for more than 5 percent of the company’s total oil- 
equivalent proved reserves. Fewer than 20 individual properties 
each contained between 1 percent and 5 percent of the total. 
In the aggregate, these properties accounted for 35 percent of 
the company’s total proved oil-equivalent reserves. These other 
properties were geographically dispersed, located in the United 
States, South America, Europe, West Africa, the Middle East 
and the Asia-Pacific region. 

In the United States, total oil-equivalent reserves at year- 
end 2005 were 2.6 billion barrels. Of this amount, 39 percent, 
21 percent and 40 percent were located in California, the Gulf 
of Mexico and other U.S. areas, respectively. 

In California, liquids reserves represented 95 percent of 
the total, with most classified as heavy oil. Because of heavy 
oil’s high viscosity and the need to employ enhanced recovery 
methods, the producing operations are capital intensive in 
nature. Most of the company’s heavy-oil fields in California 
employ a continuous steamflooding process. 


In the Gulf of Mexico region, liquids represented approxi- 
mately 63 percent of total oil-equivalent reserves. Production 
operations are mostly offshore and, as a result, are also capital 
intensive. Costs include investments in wells, production 
platforms and other facilities, such as gathering lines and 
storage facilities. 

In other U.S. areas, the reserves were split about equally 
between liquids and natural gas. For production of crude oil, 
some fields utilize enhanced recovery methods, including 
waterflood and CO, injection. 

The pattern of net reserve changes shown in the following 
tables for the three years ending December 31, 2005, is not 
necessarily indicative of future trends. Apart from acquisitions, 
the company’s ability to add proved reserves is affected by, 
among other things, matters that are outside the company’s 
control, such as delays in government permitting, partner 
approvals of development plans, declines in oil and gas prices, 
OPEC constraints, geopolitical uncertainties and civil unrest. 

The company’s estimated net proved underground oil and 
natural gas reserves and changes thereto for the years 2003, 
2004 and 2005 are shown in the tables on pages 96 and 98. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 95, 


| Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Continued 


TABLE V - RESERVE QUANTITY INFORMATION - Continued 


NET PROVED RESERVES OF CRUDE OIL, CONDENSATE AND NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS 


Consolidated Companies 


United States International 
Gulf of Total Asia- Total Athliated Companies 
Millions of barrels Calif. Mexico Other US. Africa Pacific Indonesia Other Int'l. Total TCO Hamaca 
RESERVES AT JAN. 1, 2003 1,102 389 626 2,117 1,976 815 889 697 4,377 6,494 1,689 485 
Changes attributable to: 
Revisions (4) (5) - (9) () 105 (57) 19 66 57 200 = 
Improved recovery 38 8 7 53 36 - 54 52 142 195 - - 
Extensions and discoveries 2 113 9 124 24 15 3 26 68 192 = = 
Purchases! - 1 - 1 12 12 13 - - 
Sales? (3) (2) (18) (23) - (42) - (1) (43) (66) - = 
Production (84) (69) (52) (205) (112) (97) (82) (109) (400) (605) (49) (6) 
RESERVES AT DEC. 31, 2003 1,051 435 572 2,058 1,923 796 807 696 4,222 6,280 1,840 479 
Changes attributable to: 
Revisions 13 (68) (2) (57) (70) (43) (36) (12) (161) (218) 206 (2) 
Improved recovery 28 - 6 34 34 - 6 - 40 74 - - 
Extensions and discoveries - 8 6 14 77 9 - 17 103 117 - - 
Purchases! - 2 - 2 2 - - 
Sales* - (27) ~~ (103) ~— (130) (16) - - (33) (49) (179) - - 
Production (81) (56) (47) (184) (115) (86) (79) (101) (381) (565) (52) (9) 
RESERVES AT DEC. 31,2004 1,011 294 432 1,737 1,833 676 698 567 3,774 5,511 1,994 468 
Changes attributable to: 
Revisions (23) (6) (11) (40) (29) (56) (108) (6) (199) (239) (5) (19) 
Improved recovery 57, - 4 61 67 4 42 29 142 203 - - 
Extensions and discoveries - 37 7 44 53 21 1 65 140 184 = = 
Purchases! - 49 147 196 4 287 20 65 376 572 = = 
Sales? (1) - (1) (2) (58) (58) (60) - - 
Production (79) (41) (45) (165) (114) (103) (74) (89) (380) (545) (50) (14) 
RESERVES AT DEC. 31, 20057 965. 333 533 1,831 1,814 829 579 573 3,795 5,626 1,939 435 
DEVELOPED RESERVES‘ 
At Jan. 1, 2003 867 335 564 1,766 1,042 642 655 529 2,868 4,634 99 63 
At Dec. 31, 2003 832 304 515 1,651 1,059 641 588 522 2,810 4,461 1,304 140 
At Dec. 31, 2004 832 192 386 1,410 990 543 490 469 2,492 3,902 1,510 188 
At Dec. 31, 2005 809 177 474 1,460 945 534 439 416 2,334 3,794 1,611 196 


' Includes reserves acquired through property exchanges. 
? Includes reserves disposed of through property exchanges. 


3 Net reserve changes (excluding production) in 2005 consist of 490 million barrels of developed reserves and (170) million barrels of undeveloped reserves for consolidated companies and 
; (178) million barrels of developed reserves and (154) million barrels of undeveloped reserves for affiliated companies. 
4 During 2005, the percentages of undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2004, transferred to developed reserves were 11 percent and 20 percent for consolidated companies and affiliated 


companies, respectively. 


INFORMATION ON CANADIAN OIL SANDS NET PROVED RESERVES NOT INCLUDED ABOVE: 


In addition to conventional liquids and natural gas proved reserves, Chevron has significant interests in proved oil sands reserves in Canada associated with the Athabasca project. For internal 
management purposes, Chevron views these reserves and their development as an integral part of total upstream operations. However, SEC regulations define these reserves as mining-related and 
not a part of conventional oil and gas reserves. Net proved oil sands reserves were 146 million barrels as of December 31, 2005. The oil sands reserves are not considered in the standardized mea- 
sure of discounted future net cash flows for conventional oil and gas reserves, which is found on page 101. 


Noteworthy amounts in the categories of proved- 
reserve changes for 2003 through 2005 in the table above 
are discussed below: 

Revisions In 2003, net revisions increased reserves by 
57 million barrels for consolidated companies. Whereas net 
U.S. reserve changes were minimal, international volumes 
increased 66 million barrels. The largest increase was in 
Kazakhstan in the Asia-Pacific area based on an updated 
geologic model for one field. The 200 million-barrel increase 
for TCO was based on an updated model of reservoir and 
well performance. 

In 2004, net revisions decreased reserves 218 million 
barrels for consolidated companies and increased reserves 


96 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


for affiliates by 204 million barrels. For consolidated com- 
panies, the decrease was composed of 161 million barrels 

for international areas and 57 million barrels for the United 
States. The largest downward revision internationally was 

70 million barrels in Africa. One field in Angola accounted 
for the majority of the net decline as changes were made to 
oil-in-place estimates based on reservoir performance data. 
One field in the Asia-Pacific area essentially accounted for 
the 43 million-barrel downward revision for that region. The 
revision was associated with reduced well performance. Part 
of the 36 million-barrel net downward revision for Indonesia 
was associated with the effect of higher year-end prices on 
the calculation of reserves for cost-oil recovery under a pro- 


| TABLE V - RESERVE QUANTITY INFORMATION - Continued | | | 


duction-sharing contract. In the United States, the 68 
million-barrel net downward revision in the Gulf of Mexico 
area was across several fields and based mainly on reservoir 
analyses and assessments of well performance. For affiliated 
companies, the 206 million-barrel increase for TCO was 
based on an updated assessment of reservoir performance 
for the Tengiz Field. Partially offsetting this increase was a 
downward effect of higher year-end prices on the variable 
royalty-rate calculation. Downward revisions also occurred 
in other geographic areas because of the effect of higher year- 
end prices on various production-sharing terms and variable 
royalty calculations. 

In 2005, net revisions reduced reserves by 239 million 
and 24 million barrels for worldwide consolidated com- 
panies and equity affiliates, respectively. For consolidated 
companies, the net decrease was 199 million barrels in the 
international areas and 40 million barrels in the United 
States. The largest downward net revisions internationally 
were 108 million barrels in Indonesia and 53 million barrels 
in Kazakhstan, due primarily to the effect of higher year-end 
prices on the calculation of reserves associated with production- 
sharing and variable-royalty contracts. In the United States, 
the 40 million-barrel reduction was across many fields in each 
of the geographic sections. Most of the downward revision 
for affiliated companies was a 19 million-barrel reduction in 
Hamaca, attributable to revised government royalty provisions. 
For TCO, the downward effect of higher year-end prices was 
partially offset by increased reservoir performance. 

Improved Recovery \n 2005, improved recovery increased 
liquids volumes worldwide by 203 million barrels for con- 
solidated companies. International areas accounted for 
142 million barrels of the increase. Indonesia added 42 mil- 
lion barrels due to improved performance. Reserve additions 
of 67 million barrels in Africa occurred primarily in Angola 
and resulted from infill drilling, wells workovers and sec- 
ondary recovery from gas injection. Additions of 29 million 
barrels in the “Other” international area were mainly attrib- 
utable to improved waterflood performance offshore eastern 
Canada. An increase of 61 million barrels occurred in the 
United States, primarily in California due to improved per- 
formance on a large heavy oil field under thermal recovery. 

Extensions and Discoveries In 2005, extensions and dis- 
coveries increased liquids volumes worldwide by 184 million 
barrels for consolidated companies. The largest increase was 
49 million barrels in Nigeria, reflecting new development drill- 
ing, including in the Agbami Field, among others. New field 
developments in Brazil contributed another 41 million barrels 
of discoveries. In the United States, the 44 million-barrel 
addition was associated mainly with the initial booking of 
reserves for the Blind Faith Field in the deepwater Gulf 
of Mexico. 

Purchases \n 2005, the acquisition of 572 million 
barrels of liquids related solely to the acquisition of Unocal 
in August. About three-fourths of the 376 million bar- 
rels acquired in the international areas were represented by 


volumes in Azerbaijan and Thailand. Most volumes acquired 
in the United States were in Texas and Alaska. 

Sales In 2004, sales of liquids volumes reduced reserves 
of consolidated companies by 179 million barrels. Sales 
totaled 130 million barrels in the United States and 33 mil- 
lion barrels in the “Other” international region. Sales in the 
“Other” region of the United States totaled 103 million bar- 
rels, with two fields accounting for approximately one-half 
of the volume. The 27 million barrels sold in the Gulf of 
Mexico reflect the sale of a number of Shelf properties. The 
“Other” international sales include the disposal of western 
Canada properties and several fields in the United Kingdom. 
All the sales were associated with the company’s program to 
dispose of assets deemed nonstrategic to the portfolio of pro- 
ducing properties. 

In 2005, sales of 58 million barrels in the “Other” inter- 
national area related to the disposition of the former Unocal 
operations onshore in Canada. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 97 


| Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Continued 


TABLE V - RESERVE QUANTITY INFORMATION - Continued 


NET PROVED RESERVES OF NATURAL GAS 


Consolidated Companies 


United States 


International 


Gulf of Total Asia- Total Affiliated Companies 
Billions of cubic feet Calif. Mexico Other US. Africa Pacific Indonesia Other Int'l. Total TCO Hamaca 
RESERVES AT JAN. 1, 2003 325 2,052 4,040 6,417 2,298 4,646 518 2,924 10,386 16,803 2,489 43 
Changes attributable to: 
Revisions 25 (106) (525) (606) 342 879 36 976 2,233 1,627 109 70 
Improved recovery 15 7 1 23 17 - 15 35 67 90 - - 
Extensions and 
discoveries - 270 118 388 3 76 12 47 138 526 = - 
Purchases! - 8 - 8 - 7h - 55 62 70 = = 
Sales? (1) (12) (51) (64) (6) (6) (70) - - 
Production (41) (378) (394) (813) (18) (235) (61) (366) (680) (1,493) (72) (1) 
RESERVES AT DEC. 31, 2003 323 1,841 3,189 5,353 2,642 5,373 520 3,665 12,200 17,553 2,526 112 
Changes attributable to: 
Revisions ay (391) (316) (680) 346 236 21 325 928 248 963 23 
Improved recovery 2 - 1 3 7 = 13 = 20 23 7 - 
Extensions and 
discoveries 1 54 89 144 16 39 2 13 70 214 = = 
Purchases! - 5 - 5 - 4 = = 4 9 - - 
Sales” - (147) (289) (436) (111) (111) (547) - - 
Production (39) (298) (348) (685) (32) (247) (54) (354) (687) (1,372) (76) (1) 
RESERVES AT DEC. 31, 2004 314 1,064 2,326 3,704 2,979 5,405 502 3,538 12,424 16,128 3,413 134 
Changes attributable to: 
Revisions 21 (15) (15) (9) 211 (428) (31) 243 (5) (14) (547) 49 
Improved recovery 8 - - 8 13 - - 31 44 52 - - 
Extensions and 
discoveries - 68 99 167 25 118 5 55 203 370 - - 
Purchases! - 269 899 1,168 5 3,962 247 274 4,488 5,656 - - 
Sales? - - (6) (6) (248) (248) (254) = = 
Production (39) (215) (350) (604) (42) (434) (77) (315) (868) (1,472) (79) (2) 
RESERVES AT DEC. 31, 20057 304 1,171 2,953 4,428 3,191 8,623 646 3,578 16,038 20,466 2,787 181 
DEVELOPED RESERVES‘ 
At Jan. 1, 2003 266 1,770 3,600 5,636 582 2,934 262 2,157 5,935 11,571 1,474 6 
At Dec. 31, 2003 265 1,572 2,964 4,801 954 3,627 223) 3,043 7,847 12,648 1,789 52 
At Dec. 31, 2004 252 937 2,191 3,380 1,108 3,701 271 2,273 7,353 10,733 2,584 63 
At Dec. 31, 2005 251 977 2,794 4,022 1,346 4,819 449 2,453 9,067 13,089 2,314 85 


' Includes reserves acquired through property exchanges. 


? Includes reserves disposed of through property exchanges. 


3 Net reserve changes (excluding production) in 2005 consist of 5,141 billion cubic feet of developed reserves and 669 billion cubic feet of undeveloped reserves for consolidated companies and 
_ (672) billion cubic feet of developed reserves and 174 billion cubic feet of undeveloped reserves for affiliated companies. 
a During 2005, the percentages of undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2004, transferred to developed reserves were 12 percent and 19 percent for consolidated companies and affiliated compa- 


nies, respectively. 


Noteworthy amounts in the categories of proved-reserve 


field and higher gas sales to a third-party processing plant. 


changes for 2003 through 2005 in the table above are dis- 
cussed below: 

Revisions In 2003, revisions accounted for a net increase 
of 1,627 billion cubic feet (BCF) for consolidated compa- 
nies, as net increases of 2,233 BCF internationally were 
partially offset by net downward revisions of 606 BCF in 
the United States. Internationally, the net 879 BCF increase 
in the Asia-Pacific region related primarily to Australia and 
Kazakhstan. In Australia, the increase was associated mainly 
with a change to the probabilistic method of aggregating 
the reserves for multiple fields produced through common 
offshore infrastructure into a single LNG plant. The increase 
in Kazakhstan related to an updated geologic model for one 


98 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


The net 976 BCF increase in the “Other” international area 
was mainly the result of operating contract extensions for 
two fields in South America. In the United States, about 
one-third of the net 606 BCF negative revision related to two 
coal bed methane fields in the Mid-Continent region, based 
on performance data for producing wells. Downward revi- 
sions for the balance of the write-down were associated with 
several fields, based on assessments of well performance and 
other data. 

In 2004, revisions increased reserves for consolidated 
companies by a net 248 BCF, composed of increases of 
928 BCF internationally and decreases of 680 BCF in the 
United States. Internationally, about half of the 346 BCF 


| TABLE V - RESERVE QUANTITY INFORMATION - Continued | | | 


increase in Africa related to properties in Nigeria, for which 
changes were associated with well performance reviews, 
development drilling and lease fuel calculations. The 236 
BCF addition in the Asia-Pacific region was related primarily 
to reservoir analysis for a single field. Most of the 325 BCF 
in the “Other” international area is related to a new gas sales 
contract in Trinidad and Tobago. In the United States, the 
net 391 BCF downward revision in the Gulf of Mexico was 
related to well-performance reviews and technical analyses 

in several fields. Most of the net 316 BCF negative revision 
in the “Other” U.S. area related to two coal bed methane 
fields in the Mid-Continent region and their associated wells’ 
performance. The 963 BCF increase for TCO was connected 
with updated analyses of reservoir performance and process- 
ing plant yields. 

In 2005, reserves were revised downward by 14 BCF for 
consolidated companies and 498 BCF for equity affiliates. 
For consolidated companies, negative revisions were 428 BCF 
in the Asia-Pacific region. Most of the decrease was attribut- 
able to one field in Kazakhstan, due mainly to the effects of 
higher year-end prices on variable-royalty provisions of the 
production-sharing contract. Reserves additions for consoli- 
dated companies totaled 211 BCF and 243 BCF in Africa 
and “Other,” respectively. The majority of the African region 
changes were in Angola, due to a revised forecast of fuel gas 
usage, and in Nigeria from improved reservoir performance. 
The availability of third-party compression in Colombia 
accounted for most of the increase in the “Other” region. 
Revisions in the United States decreased reserves by 9 BCF, as 
nominal increases in the San Joaquin Valley were more than 
offset by decreases in the Gulf of Mexico and “Other” region. 
For the TCO affiliate in Kazakhstan, a reduction of 547 BCF 
reflects the updated forecast of future royalties payable and 
year-end price effects, partially offset by volumes added as a 
result of an updated assessment of reservoir performance. 

Extensions and Discoveries In 2003, extensions and 
discoveries accounted for an increase of 526 BCF for con- 
solidated companies, reflecting a 388 BCF increase in the 
United States, with 270 BCF added in the Gulf of Mexico 
and 118 BCF in the “Other” region. The Gulf of Mexico 
increase includes discoveries in several offshore Louisiana 
fields, with a large number of fields in Texas, Louisiana and 
other states accounting for the increase in “Other.” 

In 2004, extensions and discoveries accounted for an 
increase of 214 BCF, reflecting an increase in the United 
States of 144 BCF, with 89 BCF added in the “Other” region 
and 54 BCF added in the Gulf of Mexico through drilling 
activities in a large number of fields. 

In 2005, consolidated companies increased reserves 
by 370 BCF, including 167 BCF in the United States and 
118 BCF in the Asia-Pacific region. In the United States, 

99 BCF was added in the “Other” region and 68 BCF in the 

Gulf of Mexico, primarily due to drilling activities. The addi- 
tion in Asia-Pacific resulted primarily from increased drilling 

in Kazakhstan. 


Purchases In 2005, all except 7 BCF of the 5,656 BCF 
total purchases were associated with the Unocal acquisition. 
International reserve acquisitions were 4,488 BCF, with 
Thailand accounting for about half the volumes. Other sig- 
nificant volumes were added in Bangladesh and Myanmar. 

Sales In 2004, sales for consolidated companies totaled 
547 BCE. Of this total, 436 BCF was in the United States 
and 111 BCF in the “Other” international region. In the 
United States, “Other” region sales accounted for 289 BCF, 
reflecting the disposal of a large number of smaller proper- 
ties, including a coal bed methane field. Gulf of Mexico sales 
of 147 BCF reflected the sale of Shelf properties, with four 
fields accounting for more than one-third of the total sales. 
Sales in the “Other” international region reflected the dis- 
position of the properties in western Canada and the United 
Kingdom. 

In 2005, sales of 248 BCF in the “Other” international 
region related to the disposition of former-Unocal’s onshore 
properties in Canada. 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 99 


| Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Continued | | | 


TABLE VI - STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS RELATED TO PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES 


The standardized measure of discounted future net cash 
flows, related to the preceding proved oil and gas reserves, is 
calculated in accordance with the requirements of FAS 69. 


Estimated future cash inflows from production are computed 


by applying year-end prices for oil and gas to year-end quan- 
tities of estimated net proved reserves. Future price changes 
are limited to those provided by contractual arrangements 
in existence at the end of each reporting year. Future devel- 
opment and production costs are those estimated future 
expenditures necessary to develop and produce year-end 
estimated proved reserves based on year-end cost indices, 
assuming continuation of year-end economic conditions, 
and include estimated costs for asset retirement obligations. 
Estimated future income taxes are calculated by applying 
appropriate year-end statutory tax rates. These rates reflect 
allowable deductions and tax credits and are applied to 
estimated future pretax net cash flows, less the tax basis of 


related assets. Discounted future net cash flows are calculated 


100 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


using 10 percent midperiod discount factors. Discounting 
requires a year-by-year estimate of when future expenditures 
will be incurred and when reserves will be produced. 

The information provided does not represent manage- 
ment’s estimate of the company’s expected future cash flows 
or value of proved oil and gas reserves. Estimates of proved 
reserve quantities are imprecise and change over time as new 
information becomes available. Moreover, probable and pos- 
sible reserves, which may become proved in the future, are 
excluded from the calculations. The arbitrary valuation pre- 
scribed under FAS 69 requires assumptions as to the timing 
and amount of future development and production costs. The 
calculations are made as of December 31 each year and should 
not be relied upon as an indication of the company’s future 
cash flows or value of its oil and gas reserves. In the following 
table, “Standardized Measure Net Cash Flows” refers to the 
standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. 


| TABLE VI - STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS RELATED TO PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES - Continued | | | 


Consolidated Companies 


United States 


International 


Gulf of Total Asia- 
Millions of dollars Calif. Mexico Other US. Africa Pacific 


Total Affiliated Companies 


Other Intl. Total TCO Hamaca 


AT DECEMBER 31, 2005 
Future cash inflows 
from production 


Future production costs (15,719) (5,758) (12,767) (34,244) (11,366) (12,459) 


$ 50,771 $29,422 $50,039 $ 130,232 $101,912 $73,612 $ 32,538 $ 44,680 $252,742 $382,974 $97,707 $20,616 
(18,260) (11,908) (53,993) (88,237) (7,399) 
(2,439) (18,206) (23,820) (5,996) 
(5,709) (13,917) (92,029) (122,611) (23,818) 


(2,101) 
(762) 
(6,036) 


Future devel. costs (2,274) (2,467) (873) (5,614) (8,197) (5,840) 
Future income taxes (11,092) (7,173) (12,317) (30,582) (50,894) (21,509) 
Undiscounted future 

net cash flows 21,686 14,024 24,082 59,792 31,455 33,804 


10 percent midyear annual 
discount for timing of 


16,416 88,514 148,306 60,494 11,717 


estimated cash flows (10,947) (4,520) (10,838) (26,305) (14,881) (14,929) (5,635) (37,714) (64,019) (37,674) (7,768) 
STANDARDIZED MEASURE 

NET CASH FLOWS $ 10,739 $ 9,504 $13,244$ 33,487 $ 16,574 $18,875 $ 4,570 $ 10,781 $ 50,800 $ 84,287 $ 22,820 $ 3,949 
AT DECEMBER 31, 2004 
Future cash inflows 

from production $ 32,793 $ 19,043 $ 28,676$ 80,512 $ 64,628 $ 35,960 $ 25,313 $ 30,061 $ 155,962 $ 236,474 $ 61,875 $ 12,769 
Future production costs (11,245) (3,840) (7,343) (22,428) (10,662) (8,604) (7,884) (39,980) (62,408) (7,322) (3,734) 
Future devel. costs (1,731) (2,389) (667) (4,787) (6,355) ~— (2,531) (1,593) (11,196) (15,983) (5,366) (407) 
Future income taxes (6,706) (4,336) (6,991) (18,033) (29,519) (9,731) (9,914) (54,518) (72,551) (13,895) (2,934) 
Undiscounted future 

net cash flows 13,111 8,478 13,675 35,264 18,092 15,094 10,670 50,268 85,532 35,292 5,694 
10 percent midyear annual 

discount for timing of 

estimated cash flows (6,656) (2,715) (6,110) (15,481) (9,035) (6,966) (3,451) (21,917) (37,398) (22,249) (3,817) 
STANDARDIZED MEASURE 

NET CASH FLOWS $ 6,455 $ 5,763 $ 7,565$ 19,783 $ 9,057 $ 8,128 $ 3,947 $ 7,219 $ 28,351 $ 48,134 $ 13,043 $ 1,877 
AT DECEMBER 31, 2003 
Future cash inflows 

from production $ 30,307 $ 23,521 $ 33,251$ 87,079 $ 55,532 $ 33,031 $ 26,288 $ 29,987 $ 144,838 $ 231,917 $ 56,485 $ 9,018 
Future production costs (10,692) (5,003) (9,354) (25,049) (8,237) (6,389) (6,334) (32,347) (57,396) (6,099) (1,878) 
Future devel. costs (1,668) (1,550) (990) (4,208) (4,524) (2,432) (1,971) (10,656) (14,864) (6,066) (463) 
Future income taxes (6,073) (5,742) (7,752) + (19,567) (25,369) (9,932) (7,888) (49,182) (68,749) (12,520) (2,270) 
Undiscounted future 

net cash flows 11,874 11,226 15,155 38,255 17,402 14,278 52,653 90,908 31,800 4,407 


10 percent midyear annual 
discount for timing of 


estimated cash flows (6,050) (3,666) (7,461) (17,177) (8,482) (6,392) 


(5,039) (22,926) (40,103) (20,140) (2,949) 


STANDARDIZED MEASURE 
NET CASH FLOWS 


$ 5,824 $ 7,560 $ 7,694$ 21,078 $ 8,920 $ 7,886 $ 4,166 $ 8,755 $ 29,727 $ 50,805 $ 11,660 $ 


1,458 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 101 


| Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Continued 


TABLE VII - CHANGES IN THE STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS FROM PROVED RESERVES 


The changes in present values between years, which can 
be significant, reflect changes in estimated proved reserve 
quantities and prices and assumptions used in forecasting 


production volumes and costs. Changes in the timing of 
production are included with “Revisions of previous quantity 
estimates.” 


Consolidated Companies* 


Affiliated Companies 


Millions of dollars 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 
PRESENT VALUE AT JANUARY 1 $ 48,134 | $ 50,805 $ 48,585 $ 14,920 | $ 13,118  $ 12,606 
Sales and transfers of oil and gas produced net of 

production costs (26,145) (18,843) (16,630) (2,712) (1,602) (1,054) 
Development costs incurred 5,504 3,579 3,451 810 1,104 750 
Purchases of reserves 25,307 58 97 - - = 
Sales of reserves (2,006) (3,734) (839) - - - 
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery less related costs 7,446 2,678 5,445 - - - 
Revisions of previous quantity estimates (13,564) 1,611 1,200 (2,598) 970 653 
Net changes in prices, development and production costs 61,370 6,173 1,857 19,205 266 (1,187) 
Accretion of discount 8,160 8,139 7,903 2,055 1,818 1,709 
Net change in income tax (29,919) (2,332) (264) (4,911) (754) (359) 
Net change for the year 36,153 (2,671) 2,220 11,849 1,802 512 
PRESENT VALUE AT DECEMBER 31 $ 84,287 | $ 48,134 $ 50,805 $ 26,769 | $ 14,920  $ 13,118 


*2003 conformed to 2004 and 2005 presentation. 


102 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


| BOARD OF DIRECTORS 


David J. O'Reilly, 59 

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since 2000. Previously he 
was elected a Director and Vice Chairman in 1998, President of Chevron Products 
Company in 1994 and a Vice President in 1991. He is a Director of the American 
Petroleum Institute, the Institute for International Economics and the Eisenhower 
Fellowships Board of Trustees. He joined Chevron in 1968. 


Peter J. Robertson, 59 

Vice Chairman of the Board since 2002. In addition to a broad sharing of the CEO's 
responsibilities, he is directly responsible for Strategic Planning; Policy, Govern- 
ment and Public Affairs; and Human Resources. Previously he was responsible for 
worldwide upstream and gas operations. He is a Director of the American Petroleum 
Institute, the U.S.-Saudi Arabian Business Council and the U.S.-Russian Business 
Council. He joined Chevron in 1973. 


Samuel H. Armacost, 66 

Director since 1982. He is Chairman of the Board of SRI International. Previously 
he was a Managing Director of Weiss, Peck & Greer LLC. He also is a Director of Del 
Monte Foods Company; Callaway Golf Company; Franklin Resources, Inc.; and 
Exponent, Inc. (3, 4) 


Sam Ginn, 68 

Director since 1989. He is a private investor and the retired Chairman of Vodafone 
AirTouch, PLC. Previously he was Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 
of Airtouch Communications, Inc., and Chairman of the Board, President and Chief 
Executive Officer of Pacific Telesis Group. He is a Director of The Business Council, 
Yosemite Fund, Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC and the Hoover 
Institute Board of Overseers. (2, 3) 


Franklyn G. Jenifer, 68 

Director since 1993. He is President Emeritus of The University of Texas at Dallas. 
Previously he was President of Howard University and Chancellor of the Massa- 
chusetts Board of Regents of Higher Education. He is a Member of the Monitoring 
Committee for the Louisiana Desegregation Settlement Agreement. (1) 


Sam Nunn, 67 

Director since 1997. He is Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Nuclear 
Threat Initiative, a charitable organization. He also is a distinguished professor at 
the Sam Nunn School of International Affairs, Georgia Tech. He served as a U.S. 
Senator from Georgia for 24 years. He is a Director of The Coca-Cola Company; 
Dell Inc.; Internet Security Systems, Inc.; Scientific-Atlanta, Inc.; and General Elec- 
tric Company. (2, 3) 


Retiring Director 

Carla A. Hills, 72, Lead Director since 2004 and a Director 
since 1993, has reached the mandatory retirement age 
for nonemployee directors and will not stand for reelec- 
tion at the Annual Meeting in April. She is Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer of Hills & Company, International 
Consultants. Hills served as U.S. Trade Representative 
from 1989 to 1993 and Secretary of the U.S. Department 
of Housing and Urban Development from 1975 to 1977. She 
also was a Chevron Director from 1977 through 1988. She 
is a Director of American International Group, Inc.; Lucent 
Technologies Inc.; and Time Warner Inc. 


Linnet F. Deily, 60 

Director since January 2006. She served as a Deputy U.S. Trade Representative 
and Ambassador to the World Trade Organization from 2001 to June 2005. Pre- 
viously she was Vice Chairman of Charles Schwab Corporation. She is a Director 
of Lucent Technologies Inc. (1) 


Robert E. Denham, 60 

Director since 2004. He is a Partner in the law firm of Munger, Tolles & Olson 
LLP. Previously he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Salomon Inc. He 
also is a Director of Lucent Technologies Inc.; Wesco Financial Corporation; and 
Fomento Econémico Mexicano, S.A. de C.V. (1) 


Robert J. Eaton, 66 

Director since 2000. He is retired Chairman of the Board of Management of 
DaimlerChrysler AG. Previously he was Chairman of the Board and Chief Execu- 
tive Officer of Chrysler Corporation. (2, 4) 


Donald B. Rice, 66 

Director since September 2005. He is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive 
Officer of Agensys, Inc., a private biotechnology company. Previously he was Presi- 
dent and Chief Operating Officer of Teledyne, Inc. He is a Director of Amgen, Inc.; 
Vulcan Materials Company; and Wells Fargo & Company. (2, 3) 


Charles R. Shoemate, 66 
Director since 1998. He is retired Chairman of the Board, President and Chief 
Executive Officer of Bestfoods. (1) 


Ronald D. Sugar, 57 

Director since April 2005. He is Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer 
and President of Northrop Grumman Corporation. Previously he was President and 
Chief Operating Officer of Northrop Grumman. He is Governor of the Aerospace 
Industries Association and a Member of the National Academy of Engineering. (2, 4) 


Carl Ware, 62 

Director since 2001. He is Senior Adviser to the Chief Executive Officer of The 
Coca-Cola Company and retired Executive Vice President of Global Public Affairs 
and Administration for The Coca-Cola Company. Previously he was President of 
The Coca-Cola Company's Africa Group. He is a Director of Coca-Cola Bottling Co. 
Consolidated and Cummins Inc. (3, 4) 


COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD 

1) Audit: Charles R. Shoemate, Chair 

2) Public Policy: Sam Nunn, Chair 

3) Board Nominating and Governance: Samuel H. Armacost, Chair 
4) Management Compensation: Robert J. Eaton, Chair 


CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 103 


CORPORATE OFFICERS 


Lydia |. Beebe, 53 

Corporate Secretary since 1995. Responsible for pro- 
viding corporate governance counsel to the Board of 
Directors and senior management, and managing stock- 
holder relations and subsidiary governance. Previously 
Senior Manager, Chevron Tax Department; Manager, 
Federal Tax Legislation; and Chevron Legal Representa- 
tive in Washington, D.C. Joined Chevron in 1977. 


John E. Bethancourt, 54 

Executive Vice President, Technology and Services, since 
2003. Responsible also for health, environment and 
safety as well as project resources, procurement, addi- 
tives and coal operations. Previously the company's Vice 
President, Human Resources, and Texaco Corporate Vice 
President and President, Production Operations, Texaco 
Worldwide Exploration and Production. Joined the com- 
pany in 1974. 


Stephen J. Crowe, 58 

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2005. 
Responsible for comptroller, audit, treasury, tax and 
investor relations activities corporatewide. Previ- 
ously Chevron Vice President and Comptroller; Vice 
President, Finance, Chevron Products Company; and 
Assistant Comptroller, Chevron Corporation. Joined 
Chevron in 1972. 


John D. Gass, 53 

Corporate Vice President and President, Chevron Global 
Gas, since 2003. Responsible for the company’s natural 
gas and power generation businesses, shipping company, 
and pipeline operations. Director of Sasol Chevron and 
GS Caltex Corporation. Previously Managing Director, 
Southern Africa Strategic Business Unit, and Managing 
Director, Chevron Australia Pty Ltd. Joined the company 
in 1974. 


Mark A. Humphrey, 54 

Vice President and Comptroller since 2005. Responsible 
for accounting, financial reporting and analysis, inter- 
nal controls, funded benefits investments, actuarial 
functions, and Finance Shared Services. Previously the 
company’s General Manager, Finance Shared Services, 
and Vice President, Finance, Chevron Products Com- 
pany. Joined Chevron in 1976. 


Charles A. James, 51 

Vice President and General Counsel since 2002. Previ- 
ously Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division, 
U.S. Department of Justice, in President George W. 
Bush's administration, and Chair, Antitrust and Trade 
Regulation Practice — Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue, 
Washington, D.C. Joined Chevron in 2002. 


George L. Kirkland, 55 

Executive Vice President, Upstream and Gas, since 
2005. Responsible for global exploration, production 
and gas activities. Previously Corporate Vice President 
and President, Chevron Overseas Petroleum Inc.; Presi- 
dent, Chevron Exploration and Production Company; 
and President, Chevron U.S.A. Production Company. 
Joined Chevron in 1974. 


David M. Krattebol, 61 

Vice President and Treasurer since 2000. Previously 
President, Chevron San Jorge; Vice President, Logis- 
tics and Trading, Chevron Products Company; Vice 
President, Finance, Chevron Products Company; and 
Vice President, Finance, Chevron Overseas Petroleum 
Inc. Joined Chevron in 1971. 


Sam Laidlaw, 50 

Executive Vice President, Business Development, since 
2003. Responsible for identifying and developing new, 
large-scale business opportunities worldwide. Previ- 
ously Chief Executive Officer of Enterprise Oil PLC, 
at the time Europe's largest independent oil and gas 
company. Prior to that President of Amerada Hess 
Corporation. Non-Executive Director of Hanson PLC. 
Joined Chevron in 2003. 


Gary P. Luquette, 50 

Corporate Vice President and President, Chevron 
North America Exploration and Production Company, 
since April 2006. Previously Managing Director, Euro- 
pean Strategic Business Unit, Chevron International 
Exploration and Production Company, and Vice Presi- 
dent, San Joaquin Valley Business Unit, Chevron North 
America Exploration and Production Company. Joined 
Chevron in 1978. 


John W. McDonald, 54 

Vice President, Strategic Planning, since 2002. Respon- 
sible for advising senior management in setting the 
company's strategic direction. Previously President and 
Managing Director, Chevron Upstream Europe, Chevron 
Overseas Petroleum Inc., and Vice President, Gulf of Mexico 
Offshore Division, Texaco Exploration and Production Inc. 
Joined the company in 1975. 


Donald L. Paul, 59 

Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since 2001. 
Responsible for Chevron’s three technology companies: 
Energy Technology, Information Technology and Tech- 
nology Ventures. Previously Chevron Vice President, 
Technology and Environmental Affairs; President, Chev- 
ron Canada Resources; and President, Chevron Petroleum 
Technology Company. Joined Chevron in 1975. 


104 CHEVRON CORPORATION 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 


Alan R. Preston, 54 

Vice President, Human Resources, since 2003. Previously 
the company’s General Manager, Global Remuneration; 
General Manager, Organization/Compensation, Chevron 
Corporation; and General Manager, Human Resources, 
Chevron Products Company. Joined Chevron in 1973. 


Thomas R. Schuttish, 58 

General Tax Counsel since 2002. Responsible for guiding 
and directing corporatewide tax activities and managing 
Chevron's Tax department. Previously the company’s 
Assistant General Tax Counsel. Joined Chevron in 1980. 


John S. Watson, 49 

Corporate Vice President and President, Chevron Inter- 
national Exploration and Production Company, since 
2005. Responsible for exploration and production 
activities outside North America. Previously Chevron 
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Chevron 
Vice President, Strategic Planning; and Director, Caltex 
Petroleum Corporation. Joined Chevron in 1980. 


Michael K. Wirth, 45 

Executive Vice President, Downstream, since March 
2006. Responsible for worldwide refining, marketing, 
lubricants, and supply and trading. Previously Presi- 
dent, Global Supply and Trading; President, Marketing, 
Asia/Middle East/Africa Strategic Business Unit; and 
President, Marketing, Caltex Corporation. Joined 
Chevron in 1982. 


Patricia E. Yarrington, 49 

Vice President, Policy, Government and Public Affairs, 
since 2002. Responsible for government relations, 
community relations and communications. Director of 
Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC. Previously 
Chevron Vice President, Strategic Planning; President, 
Chevron Canada Limited; and Comptroller, Chevron 
Products Company. Joined Chevron in 1980. 


Rhonda I. Zygocki, 48 

Vice President, Health, Environment and Safety, since 
2003. Responsible for HES strategic planning and issues 
management, compliance and auditing, and emergency 
response. Previously Managing Director, Chevron Aus- 
tralia Pty Ltd; Adviser to the Chairman of the Board, 
Chevron Corporation; and Manager, Strategic Planning, 
Chevron Corporation. Joined Chevron in 1980. 


EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 

David J. O'Reilly, Peter J. Robertson, John E. 
Bethancourt, Stephen J. Crowe, Charles A. James, 
George L. Kirkland, Sam Laidlaw and Michael K. 
Wirth. Lydia |. Beebe, Secretary. 


STOCKHOLDER AND INVESTOR INFORMATION 


STOCK EXCHANGE 

LISTING 

Chevron common stock is listed 
on the New York and Pacific stock 
exchanges. The symbol is “CVX.” 


STOCKHOLDER 
INFORMATION 

Questions about stock owner- 
ship, changes of address, dividend 
payments or direct deposit of 
dividends should be directed to 
Chevron’s transfer agent and 
registrar: 

Mellon Investor Services LLC 
480 Washington Boulevard 
27th Floor 

Jersey City, NJ 07130-2098 
800 368 8357 
www.melloninvestor.com 


The Mellon Investor Services 
Program (800 842 7629, same 
address as above) features divi- 
dend reinvestment, optional cash 
investments of $50 to $100,000 a 
year, automatic stock purchase and 
safekeeping of stock certificates. 


DIVIDEND 

PAYMENT DATES 

Quarterly dividends on common 
stock are paid, following declara- 
tion by the Board of Directors, on or 
about the 10th day of March, June, 
September and December. Direct 
deposit of dividends is available to 
stockholders. For information, con- 
tact Mellon Investor Services. (See 
Stockholder Information.) 


ANNUAL 

MEETING 

The Annual Meeting of stock- 
holders will be held at 8:00 a.m., 
Wednesday, April 26, 2006, at: 
Chevron Corporation 

1500 Louisiana Street 
Houston, TX 77002-7308 


Meeting notice and proxy materials 
are mailed in advance to stock- 
holders, who are urged to review 
the materials and to vote their 
shares. Generally, stockholders 
may vote by telephone, on the 
Internet, by mail or by attending 
the meeting. 


ELECTRONIC 

ACCESS 

Rather than receiving mailed 
copies, stockholders of record 
may sign up on our Web site, 
www.icsdelivery.com/cvx/index. 
html, for electronic access to future 
Annual Reports and proxy materi- 
als. Enrollment is revocable until 
each year's Annual Meeting record 
date. Beneficial stockholders 

may be able to request electronic 
access by contacting their broker 
or bank, or ADP at: 
www.icsdelivery.com/cvx/index. 
html. 


INVESTOR 

INFORMATION 

Securities analysts, portfolio 
managers and representatives of 
financial institutions may contact: 
Investor Relations 

Chevron Corporation 

6001 Bollinger Canyon Road 
Bldg. A 

San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 
925 842 5690 

Email: invest@chevron.com 


PUBLICATIONS AND 

OTHER NEWS SOURCES 

The Annual Report, published in 
March, summarizes the company’s 
financial performance in the 
preceding year and provides an 
outlook for the future. 


For facts and figures about 

the company and the energy 
industry, visit Chevron's Web site, 
www.chevron.com. It includes 
articles, news releases, speeches, 
quarterly earnings information, 
the Proxy Statement and the com- 
plete text of this Annual Report. 


The Form 10-K, prepared annually 
for the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, is available after 
March 1. The Supplement to the 
Annual Report, containing addi- 
tional financial and operating data, 
is available after April 15. Please 
request by writing to: 
Comptroller's Department 
Chevron Corporation 


6001 Bollinger Canyon Road, A3201 


San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 


THIS ANNUAL REPORT CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS — IDENTIFIED BY WORDS SUCH AS “EXPECTS,” “INTENDS,” “PROJECTS,” 
ETC. — THAT REFLECT MANAGEMENT'S CURRENT ESTIMATES AND BELIEFS, BUT ARE NOT GUARANTEES OF FUTURE RESULTS. PLEASE 

SEE “CAUTIONARY STATEMENT RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF ‘SAFE HARBOR’ PROVISIONS OF 
THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995" ON PAGE 25 FOR A DISCUSSION OF SOME OF THE FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE 


ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY. 


PRODUCED BY: POLICY, GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS AND COMPTROLLER'S DEPARTMENTS, CHEVRON CORPORATION 
DESIGN: SEQUEL STUDIO, NEW YORK PRINTING: GRAPHIC PRESS, LOS ANGELES 


Details of the company's political 
contributions for 2005 are avail- 
able by writing to: 

Policy, Government and 

Public Affairs 

Chevron Corporation 

6001 Bollinger Canyon Road, A2108 
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 


Information about charitable 
and educational contributions is 
available in the second half of the 
year on Chevron's Web site, 
www.chevron.com. 


LEGAL 

NOTICE 

As used in this report, the term 
“Chevron” and such terms as “the 
company,” “the corporation,” “our,” 
“we” and “us” may refer to one or 
more of its consolidated subsidi- 
aries or to all of them taken as a 
whole. All of these terms are used 
for convenience only and are not 
intended as a precise description of 
any of the separate companies, each 
of which manages its own affairs. 


CORPORATE 
HEADQUARTERS 

6001 Bollinger Canyon Road 
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 
925 842 1000 


PHOTOGRAPHY: Front/Back Cover, Pages 3, 6, 8: Eric Myer/Eric Myer Photography; Inside Front Cover: NASA/Jeff Schmaltz, MODIS Land Rapid Response Team; Page 10: Peter Cannon/GEO Media; 
Page 12: Noel Holly/Illustrations Pty Ltd; Pages 14, 16: Mike Goldwater; Page 17: Sharon Light; Page 18: (top, left) José Pinto, (bottom, left) Muyiwa Osifuye/Freelance Images, (top, right) Jamie Koh/Koh 
Sue Pei, (bottom, right) Jim Karageorge/Karageorge Studio; Page 19: (top, left) Matthew Carmichael, (bottom, left) Carla Musser, (top, middle) Ménica Davila, (bottom, right) Dennis Harding, (top, 
right) Arief Dipo; Page 21: (left) Jim Karageorge/Karageorge Studio, (right) Mike Goldwater; Page 22: (left) John Sturrock, (right) Joe Lynch/One Degree North Photography (Singapore); Page 23: (left) 
PowerLight Corporation, (right) Jim Karageorge/Karageorge Studio. 


ILLUSTRATION CONCEPTS: Pages 7, 11: Young & Rubicam Brands; Page 9: Tahiti Subsurface Team, Chevron Corporation; Page 13: Information Design and Consulting, Chevron Corporation; Page 15: 
Sasol Chevron Holdings Limited; Page 17: Hughes Christensen Company. 


@® Recycled/Recyclable 


St 
72} 
om 
2 al 
ae 
= 
= oh 
oe 
DRONE 
. O fo) 
Om me <tc cy) 
Q2o0 -€ 
5 2S 
= 
oie So = 
Caos = 
on aS 
S>-& S 
wocs 
SS w& 
OoNn =s 


~« 


Chevron 
—< 


