BLM    LIBRARY 


88009741 


PA492 

ENVIRONMENTAL  BASELINE  REPORT  FOR  CHEVRON'S 
PROPOSED  SYNCRUDE  PIPELINE  ROUTES: 
CLEAR  CREEK  TO  LA  SAL  AND 
CLEAR  CREEK  TO  RANGELY 


Prepared  for 

CHEVRON  SHALE  OIL  COMPANY 
Denver,  Colorado 


Prepared  by 

ENVIRONMENTAL  RESEARCH  AND  TECHNOLOGY,  INC, 
Fort  Collins,  Colorado 


April  1982 


XX 


0^H\ 


1TD 


BLM  Library 
D-653A,  Building  50 
Denver  Federal  Center 
P.  0.  Box  26047 
Denver,  CO  80225-0047 


I 


PA492 

ENVIRONMENTAL  BASELINE  REPORT  FOR  CHEVRON'S 
PROPOSED  SYNCRUDE  PIPELINE  ROUTES: 
CLEAR  CREEK  TO  LA  SAL  AND 
CLEAR  CREEK  TO  RANGELY 


Prepared  for 

CHEVRON  SHALE  OIL  COMPANY 
Denver,  Colorado 


Prepared  by 

ENVIRONMENTAL  RESEARCH  AND  TECHNOLOGY,  INC 
Fort  Collins,  Colorado 


April  1982 


• 


EXECUTIVE  SUMMARY 

This  report  provides  baseline  natural  resources  information  for  two 
alternative  syncrude  pipeline  routes  from  Chevron's  Clear  Creek  property 
to  Rangely  and  for  six  alternative  syncrude  pipeline  routes  from  the 
Clear  Creek  property  to  the  proposed  La  Sal  Syncrude  Pipeline.   These 
descriptions  are  based  on  a  review  of  existing  data  sources  and  on  data 
collected  by  ERT  during  helicopter  reconnaissances  of  the  proposed 
pipeline  corridors.   Studies  for  the  Rangely  pipeline  routes  were 
conducted  in  October  1980;  those  for  the  La  Sal  pipeline  routes  were 
conducted  from  October  to  December  1981. 

Climate  and  Air  Quality 

The  climate  of  the  Roan  Plateau  region  is  continental  and 
semi-arid.  Precipitation  and  temperature  are  directly  influenced  by 
elevation,  thus  local  climates  may  vary  considerably.   Average  annual 
precipitation  ranges  from  9  to  21  inches.  Temperatures  vary  from  highs 
of  about  100°F  during  summer  to  lows  below  0°F  during  winter. 
Prevailing  winds  are  from  the  west  with  variations  due  to  local  topography. 
Air  quality  in  the  area  is  generally  very  good,  with  occasional  high 
particulate  concentrations  during  summer  and  fall  resulting  from  "fugitive 
dust"  from  vehicular  traffic  on  dirt  roads  or  oil  shale  development 
activity. 

Topography  and  Geology 

The  proposed  pipeline  routes  are  in  northwestern  Colorado  between 
the  White  and  Colorado  Rivers,  in  the  Piceance  Basin.  Elevations  range 
from  4,900  to  9,400  feet.  Most  of  the  area  is  a  plateau  standing  1,000 
to  4,000  feet  above  the  nearby  river  valleys.   In  general,  the  land 
surface  slopes  gently  downward  from  the  rim  toward  the  central  part  of 
the  plateau,  with  the  greatest  dips  occurring  on  the  eastern  and 
northern  slopes.  The  Roan  Plateau,  a  lightly  dissected  divide  separating 
the  White  and  Colorado  River  drainages,  crosses  the  south-central  part 
of  the  basin  from  east  to  west. 

The  Piceance  Basin  is  a  large  northwest-trending  structural  downwarp. 
Although  none  are  known  to  be  active,  numerous  old  faults  are  present  in 


the  study  area.   These  northwest-trending,  high-angle  normal  faults  are 
in  the  northeastern  part  of  the  basin.   Faults  and  joints  are  often 
calcite-filled,  and  all  joints  tend  to  close  with  depth  in  the  lower 
portions  of  the  Green  River  Formation. 

Soils  and  Reclamation  Potential 

Soils  maps  depict  units  composed  of  two  or  three  kinds  of  soils 
that  occur  in  association  with  each  other.  They  are  mapped  together 
because  of  the  mapping  scale,  similarities  in  reclamation  capability, 
and  other  soil  characteristics. 

Water  Resources 

Drainage  is  divided  by  the  southern  edge  of  the  Roan  Plateau 
separating  flow  to  the  north  and  to  the  south.   The  area  to  the  north  is 
drained  by  Piceance  Creek  into  the  White  River  drainage  system;  the  area 
to  the  south  is  drained  by  Roan  Creek  and  Parachute  Creek  into  the 
Colorado  River  drainage  system.   Piceance  Creek,  Parachute  Creek,  Roan 
Creek,  and  a  few  of  their  major  tributaries  are  perennial  streams. 
Surface  water  resources  of  the  Piceance  Basin  are  moderately  developed 
for  irrigation;  those  of  Parachute  Creek  and  Roan  Creek  are  fully  developed, 

The  principal  subsurface  water-bearing  zones  in  the  basin  are  the 
Tertiary  (Eocene)  Uinta  Formation,  the  upper  Green  River  Formation,  and 
the  stream  valley  alluvium.  Springs  are  numerous  at  the  contact  between 
the  Uinta  Formation  and  the  Green  River  Formation.  The  valley  alluvium, 
however,  is  the  principal  source  of  usable  groundwater.   Horizontal 
permeabilities  in  the  area  are  normally  much  greater  than  vertical 
permeabilities . 

Vegetation 

Vegetation  types  on  the  study  area  include  plateau  sagebrush, 
plateau  mixed  shrub,  valley  mixed  shrub,  pinyon- juniper ,  aspen,  grassland, 
agricultural  land,  conifer,  saltbush,  greasewood,  valley  sagebrush,  and 
valley  riparian.   Distribution  of  each  type  is  primarily  controlled  by 
topography  and  its  influence  on  moisture  availability.   Percent  cover 
and  productivity  of  the  vegetation  types  vary  greatly  from  site  to  site; 
differences  are  related  to  variation  in  moisture  availability  and  soil 
properties . 

ii 


Barneby's  columbine  (Aquilegia  barnebyi)  ,  fescue  (Festuca  dasyclada)  , 
and  dragon  milvetch  (Astragalus  lutosus)  are  species  that  may  be  threatened 
or  endangered,  but  insufficient  information  is  available  about  them. 
Sullivantia  (Sullivantia  purpusi)  is  on  the  Colorado  Heritage  Inventory 
working  rare  plant  list.   Barneby's  columbine  and  sullivantia  were  found 
on  small  (less  than  25  acres)  seep  areas  next  to  the  falls  on  Clear 
Creek  and  No  Name  Creek.   The  fescue  is  presently  known  from  scattered 
locations  along  the  south  face  of  the  Roan  Cliffs  from  Anvil  Points 
westward  to  the  Roan  Creek  drainage.  Dragon  milkvetch  has  been  found  in 
numerous  (20-30)  locations  in  the  Piceance  Basin  and  the  Roan  Cliffs  in 
Garfield  and  Rio  Blanco  Counties. 

Wildlife 

The  mule  deer  is  the  most  important  big  game  species  in  the  region. 
Winter  range  is  typically  below  7,400  foot  elevation  on  sagebrush  and 
pinyon- juniper  habitats  while  summer  range  is  generally  aboe  6,800  feet 
in  sagebrush,  mountain  shurb,  aspen,  and  spruce-fir  habitats.   Critical 
mule  deer  winter  ranges  or  concentration  areas  occur  in  the  area  south 
of  the  confluence  of  Douglas  and  Cathedral  Creeks  and  in  Gillam  Draw. 
Elk  are  fewer  in  number  than  mule  deer  but  have  been  steadily  increasing 
in  recent  years.   Both  summer  and  winter  ranges  are  above  7,000  foot 
elevation,  with  spruce-fir  and  aspen  used  as  cover  from  spring  through 
fall  and  mountain  shrub  and  pinyon- juniper  used  in  winter. 

Four  game  bird  species  -  sage  grouse,  blue  grouse,  mourning  dove, 
and  chukar  occur  in  the  region.  Waterfowl  are  uncommon  because  of  the 
lack  of  suitable  habitat. 

Two  endangered  species,  the  bald  eagle  and  the  peregrine  falcon, 
are  potential  inhabitants  of  the  region.   The  bald  eagle  winters  each 
year  along  the  White  River  but  is  unlikely  to  occur  along  the  study 
corridors.   Peregrines  have  been  observed  performing  courship  activities 
in  Parachute  Creek  Canyon  and  the  CD0W  has  designated  the  upper  portion 
of  Parachute  Creek  Canyon  and  its  main  forks  as  potential  nesting  habitat. 
Since  nest  sites  preferred  by  peregrines  are  high  cliff  ledges,  usually 
near  water,  the  potential  for  their  nesting  within  the  pipeline  corridor 
is  very  low. 


in 


Aquatic  Ecology 

On  the  Roan  Plateau,  Willow  Creek  and  West  Fork  Parachute  Creek 
support  trout  populations  consisting  of  rainbow  trout  and  cutthroat 
trout,  respectively.   Piceance  Creek  contains  mainly  coldwater  nongame 
fish  species  such  as  mountain  sucker  and  speckled  dace,  while  Clear 
Creek  supports  no  fish  in  the  sections  proposed  for  pipeline  crossings. 
Benthic  macroinvertebrates  and  periphyton  communities  in  these  creeks 
are  indicative  of  streams  that  undergo  extreme  fluctuations  in  some 
physical  and  chemical  conditions. 

Cultural  Resources 

Known  prehistoric  resources  in  the  study  area  reveal  diversified 
and  extensive  occupation.   From  previous  investigations  in  the  vicinity 
of  the  proposed  route,  several  periods  of  prehistoric  occupation  have 
been  established  for  the  area.  Recurrently  used  prehistoric  camp  sites 
tend  to  be  situated  vertically  and  horizontally  close  to  a  reliable 
water  source  in  lowland  areas  such  as  floodplains  and  finger  ridges 
overlooking  drainages.  Historic  occupation  and  exploration  began  in  the 
1800 's  in  the  form  of  homesteading  and  cattle  ranching. 

Visual  Resources 

The  proposed  pipeline  corridors  are  characterized  by  rugged,  arid 
topography  with  steep,  eroded  cliffs  and  gently  sloping  to  rolling 
plateaus.   Significant  man-made  visual  features  in  the  region  include 
the  communities  of  DeBeque,  Parachute,  and  Battlement  Mesa;  developments 
at  the  Cathedral  Bluffs  Oil  Shale  Project  (Tract  C-b),  Union  Oil  Project, 
Colony  Project,  and  Occidental  Logan  Wash  Project;  and  Interstate  70. 

Land  Use  and  Transportation 

Grazing  by  livestock  and  wildlife  is  the  primary  land  use  within 
the  areas  traversed  by  all  of  the  alternative  synfuel  pipeline  routes. 
Private  ranching  operations  have  evolved  around  the  use  of  public  lands 
and  intermingled  private  and  state  lands.  Hay  is  typically  produced  on 
private  land  to  feed  livestock  during  the  winter. 

Recreational  resources  in  the  region  include  hunting  and  fishing. 
Big  game  species  include  mule  deer  and  elk;  huntable  populations  also 


IV 


• 


exist  for  small  game  and  upland  game  birds.   Fishing  pressure  along 
Douglas  Creek  and  its  tributaries  is  probably  light  (BLM  1980),  because 
the  smaller  trout  streams  do  not  contain  populations  large  enough  to 
sustain  much  fishing  pressure.   The  Bluff  Road  provides  access  to  the 
Cathedral  Bluffs  where  hikers,  campers,  and  sight-seers  may  view  wildlife 
species  and  geologic  formations. 

Backcountry  roads  are  the  principal  transportation  routes  crossed 
by  all  the  proposed  pipeline  routes.   Most  are  single-lane,  low-use 
facilities  with  only  occasional  grading  and  seldom  with  a  gravel  surface. 
Portions  passing  through  large  tracts  of  private  land  are  often  closed 
to  public  entry.  Ranchers  and  mineral  exploration  crews  are  the  principal 
year-round  users  of  these  roads,  but  hunters  use  them  extensively  in  the 
fall  months. 


• 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

Page 

LIST  OF  TABLES  ix 

LIST  OF  FIGURES  x 

LIST  OF  MAPS  xi 

1.0   INTRODUCTION  1-1 

2.0  METHODOLOGY  2-1 

2.1  Climate  and  Air  Quality  2-1 

2.2  Topography  and  Geology  2-1 

2.3  Soils  and  Reclamation  Potential  2-2 

2.4  Water  Resources  2-3 

2.5  Vegetation  2-3 

2.6  Wildlife  2-3 

2.7  Aquatic  Ecology  2-4 

2.8  Cultural  Resources  2-5 

2.9  Visual  Resources  2-5 

2.10  Land  Use  2-6 

3.0  RESULTS  AND  DISCUSSIONS  3-1 

3.1  Climate  and  Air  Quality  3-1 
3.1.1  Regional  Setting  3-1 

3.2  Topography  and  Geology  3-1 

3.2.1  Regional  Setting  3-1 

3.2.2  Rangely  Pipeline  Routes  3-6 

3.2.3  La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes  3-9 

3.3  Soils  and  Reclamation  Potential  3-11 

3.3.1  Regional  Setting  3-11 

3.3.2  Rangely  Pipeline  Routes  3-12 

3.3.3  La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes  3-13 

3.4  Water  Resources  3-16 

3.4.1  Regional  Setting  3-16 

3.4.2  Rangely  Pipeline  Routes  3-18 

3.4.3  La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes  3-20 


VI 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS  (CONTINUED) 


Page 


3.5  Vegetation  3-27 

3.5.1  Regional  Setting  3-27 

3.5.2  Rangely  Pipeline  Routes  3-33 

3.5.3  La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes  3-35 

3.6  Wildlife  3-38 

3.6.1  Regional  Setting  3-38 

3.6.2  Rangely  Pipeline  Routes  3-40 

3.6.3  La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes  3-41 

3.7  Aquatic  Ecology  3-43 

3.7.1  Regional  Setting  3-43 

3.7.2  Rangely  Pipeline  Routes  3-44 

3.7.3  La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes  3-46 

3.8  Cultural  Resources  3-52 

3.8.1  Regional  Setting  3-52 

3.8.2  Rangely  Pipeline  Routes  3-54  \ 

3.8.3  La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes  3-57 

3.9  Visual  Resources  3-60 

3.9.1  Regional  Setting  3-60 

3.9.2  Rangely  Pipeline  Routes  3-61 

3.9.3  La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes  3-63 

3.10  Land  Use  and  Transportation  3-67 

3.10.1  Regional  Setting  3-67 

3.10.2  Rangely  Pipeline  Routes  3-69 

3.10.3  La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes  3-69 

4.0  REFERENCES  CITED  4-1 

5.0   GLOSSARY  5-1 
APPENDICES 


< 


VII 


APPENDICES 

A         Soil  Mapping  Units  and  Soils  Descriptions 

B         Cultural  Resource  Sites  Along  Pipeline  Routes 
A  and  B  to  Rangely 

C         Surficial  Geology  and  Geotechnical  Considerations 

D         Benthic  Macroinvertebrates  Collected  From  Streams 
Potentially  Affected  by  Pipeline  Routes  A  and 
B  to  Rangely 


vm 


•LIST  OF  TABLES 

Table  Page 

3-1       Gauging  Station  Summary  for  White  River 

and  Douglas  Creek  3-21 

3-2       Irrigation  Water  Use  for  Douglas  Creek  and 

Tributaries  3-22 

3-3       Acres  of  Vegetation  Potentially  Disturbed 

by  Pipeline  Construction  3-34 

3-4       Acres  of  Vegetation  to  be  Disturbed  by 

Pipeline  Construction  3-36 

3-5       Fish  Species  Reported  by  Various  Investigators, 

Piceance  Creek,  Colorado  3-49 

3-6       Known  Cultural  Resources  Along  Proposed 

Routes  1981  3-53 

3-7       Visual  Resource  Management  Classes  3-62 


• 


IX 


% 


LIST  OF  FIGURES 

Figure  Page 

1-1       Alternative  Pipeline  Routes  from 

Clear  Creek  Site  to  Rangely  and  La  Sal  1~2 

3-1       Index  Map  Showing  the  Piceance  Creek 

Basin  3-2 

3-2       Block  Diagram  of  Piceance  Creek  Basin  3-5 


LIST  OF  MAPS 


% 


Map 

1 

Geology  -  Rangely 

2 

Geology  -  La  Sal 

3 

Soils  -  Rangely 

4 

Soils  -  La  Sal 

5 

Vegetation  -  Rangely 

6 

Vegetation  -  La  Sal 

7 

Candidate  Threatened 

La  Sal 

8  CDOW  Environmental  Constraint  Map  -  Rangely 

9  Wildlife  -  La  Sal 

10  Cultural  Resources  -  La  Sal 

11  Visual  Resources  -  La  Sal 


XI 


1 . 0   INTRODUCTION 

This  report  provides  baseline  descriptions  of  two  alternative 
syncrude  pipeline  routes  from  Chevron's  Clear  Creek  property  to  Rangely 
and  of  six  alternative  syncrude  pipeline  routes  from  the  Clear  Creek 
property  to  two  selected  points  on  the  proposed  La  Sal  Syncrude  Pipeline 
(Figure  1-1).   These  descriptions  are  based  on  a  review  of  existing  data 
sources  and  on  data  collected  by  ERT  during  aerial  reconnaissances  by 
helicopter  of  the  proposed  pipeline  corridors.   These  studies  were 
conducted  to  provide  baseline  natural  resources  information  required  for 
various  environmental  assessment  documents.   Studies  for  the  Rangely 
pipeline  routes  were  conducted  in  October  1980,  while  data  was  collected 
from  October  to  December  1981  for  the  La  Sal  pipeline  routes.   Since  the 
La  Sal  study  was  conducted  one  year  later,  additional  or  updated 
information  was  available  from  the  BLM,  SCS,  and  ERT's  own  baseline 
studies  that  was  not  available  for  the  Rangely  study. 

Rangely  Pipeline  Routes 

ERT  investigated  two  pipeline  routes  from  the  Clear  Creek  property 
to  Rangely.   The  more  western  route  (Route  A)  included  a  small  deviation 
route  near  Rangely  as  depicted  in  Figure  1-1.   Route  A  begins  on  Skinner 
Ridge  at  about  8,500  ft  elevation  and  proceeds  northward  for  about 
7  miles  before  it  drops  off  the  plateau  into  the  Soldier  Creek  Valley 
and  follows  Soldier  Creek  to  its  confluence  with  lower  Cathedral  Creek. 
It  then  continues  northward  following  the  valley  floor  of  East  Douglas 
and  Douglas  Creeks  for  about  30  miles  before  it  exits  out  of  the  valley 
and  heads  west  for  about  5  miles  to  Chevron's  existing  facility  west  of 
Rangely.   For  about  the  last  6  miles  before  reaching  the  Rangely 
facility,  Route  A  crosses  an  extremely  rugged  area  of  hogback  ridges 
with  numerous  rock  outcrops  and  limited  access.   A  possible  deviation 
from  this  route  would  continue  to  follow  the  Douglas  Creek  Valley  along 
Highway  139  for  about  4  miles  before  heading  west,  following  an  existing 
pipeline  for  about  4  miles  to  the  Rangely  facility. 

Route  B  also  begins  on  Skinner  Ridge  and  follows  Route  A  for  about 
7  miles  to  the  point  where  Route  A  drops  into  the  Soldier  Creek  Valley. 
Route  B  does  not  drop  into  the  valley  but  continues  for  another  20  miles 


1-1 


4 


10  20 

Miles 


Figure  1-1 
Alternative  Pipeline  Routes    From  Clear  Creek  Site  To  Rangely  And  La  Sal 


along  the  ridgetop  following  the  Cathedral  Bluff  road.   At  about 
milepost  25,  the  route  drops  off  the  bluff  and  heads  northwest  along  Big 
Ridge  for  about  10  miles  before  heading  west  toward  Rangely  through 
Gillara  Draw.   It  meets  the  possible  deviation  of  Route  A  south  of 
Rangely  and  follows  it  to  the  Rangely  facility. 

La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes 

For  the  La  Sal  pipeline  routes,  alternatives  start  at  Chevron's 
Clear  Creek  property  and  connect  with  the  proposed  La  Sal  Pipeline  near 
Magnolia  Camp  (Figure  1-1).   Route  1  begins  at  mile  0  on  the  Clear  Creek 
property  and  circles  the  Clear  Creek  facility  to  the  west  and  north 
crossing  West  Willow,  East  Willow,  and  No  Name  Creeks.   The  route 
continues  in  a  north-northeasterly  direction  following  the  ridge  between 
Hunter  and  East  Fawn  Creeks,  crosses  Piceance  Creek,  and  ends  at  the 
proposed  La  Sal  pumping  station  at  Magnolia  Camp.   The  total  length  of 
Route  1  is  about  26.5  miles. 

Route  1A  (route  segments  1-1A-1)  is  common  with  Route  1  from  mile  0 
through  mile  5.2  where  it  turns  in  a  north-northeastly  direction  and 
follows  East  Fawn  Creek  to  Black  Sulphur  Creek  and  Black  Sulphur  Creek 
to  Piceance  Creek.   Route  1A  then  turns  to  the  northeast  and  becomes 
common  with  Route  1  from  mile  23.3  to  the  end  point  of  Route  1.   The 
total  length  of  alternative  Route  1A  is  about  26.5  miles. 

The  four  other  La  Sal  pipeline  alternative  corridors  (2,  2A,  2B, 
2C)  start  at  Chevron's  Clear  Creek  property  and  connect  with  the 
proposed  La  Sal-Parachute  Creek  Pump   Station  at  Davis  Point 
(Figure  1-1).   Route  2  (route  segments  1-2)  is  common  with  Route  1  from 
mile  0  to  mile  6.3  and  then  follows  the  Ridge  Road  to  the  east  to 
mile  7.6  of  Route  2.   Route  2  then  turns  away  from  the  Ridge  Road  to 
follow  Wet  Fork  to  about  mile  13  of  Route  2  where  it  again  generally 
follows  the  Ridge  Road  until  about  mile  15.8  (Route  2).   It  turns 
southward  to  Davis  Point  where  it  connects  with  the  Parachute  Creek  Pump 
Station  of  the  proposed  La  Sal  Pipeline.   The  total  length  of 
alternative  Route  2  is  about  25  miles. 

Route  2A  (route  segments  1-2-2A-2)  is  common  with  Route  2  from 
mile  0  through  approximately  mile  7.6  where  Route  2A  turns  southeast  and 
follows  Wolf  Creek  to  the  confluence  of  Wolk  Creek  and  the  West  Fork  of 


1-3 


Parachute  Creek.   Route  2A  continues  northeast  to  join  Route  2  at 
mile  13  and  is  common  with  Route  2  to  the  end  point.   The  total  length 
of  alternative  Route  2A  is  about  26.5  miles. 

Route  2B  (route  segments  2B-2A-2B-2)  starts  at  Chevron's  Clear 
Creek  facility  and  extends  southeast  where  it  follows  Clear  Creek  to  the 
junction  of  Clear  Creek  and  Buck  Gulch  (approximately  mile  9.2  of 
Route  2B) .   Route  2B  turns  to  the  northeast  following  Wiesse  Creek  to 
its  source,  then  turns  to  the  east  and  joins  with  Route  2A  from  about 
mile  0.7  through  mile  1.9  of  Route  2A.   Route  2B  then  turns  southeast 
for  about  1.5  miles  and  again  turns  northeast  following  Jackrabbit  Ridge 
to  about  mile  20  of  Route  2B.   It  turns  north  and  joins  Route  2  from 
about  mile  15.2  to  the  end  of  Route  2.   The  total  length  of  alternative 
Route  2B  is  about  28  miles. 

Route  2C  (route  segments  1-2-2C-2)  is  common  with  Route  2  from 
mile  0  through  mile  7.6.   Route  2C  then  turns  northeast  and  continues 
following  the  Ridge  Road  to  about  mile  13.4  of  Route  2  where  it  becomes 
common  with  Route  2  to  its  end.   The  total  length  of  alternative 
Route  2C  is  about  26.5  miles. 


1-4 


2 . 0  METHODOLOGY 

Agency  contacts  with  the  Meeker,  Craig,  and  Grand  Junction  BLM 
offices  and  the  Grand  Junction  SCS  office;  literature  surveys;  and 
helicopter  reconnaissances  were  conducted  in  October  1980  for  the 
alternative  pipeline  corridors  to  Rangely  and  from  October  to 
December  1981  for  the  alternative  pipeline  corridors  to  the  proposed 
La  Sal  pipeline  pump  station  sites. 

2. 1  Climate  and  Air  Quality 

Since  construction  and  operation  of  a  syncrude  pipeline  is  not 
expected  to  affect  any  climatic  or  air  quality  parameters  of  the  region 
significantly,  no  studies  other  than  a  brief  review  and  summarization  of 
existing  literature  were  conducted  for  the  purpose  of  these  corridor 
studies . 

2.2  Topography  and  Geology 

The  primary  objective  of  this  discipline  was  to  identify  any 
geological  hazards  or  other  geotechnical  considerations  that  could 
influence  the  routing,  design,  or  construction  planning  for  the  proposed 
pipeline.   This  included  identifying  faults,  seismic  potential  in  the 
region,  areas  of  slope  instability,  shallow  bedrock,  expansive  soils, 
and  subsidence  hazard.   The  second  objective  was  to  collect  surficial 
geology  information  related  to  topography,  geomorphology ,  stratigraphy, 
and  soils  origin.   Mineral  resources  would  not  be  significantly  affected 
by  pipeline  construction  or  operation  and  are  not  discussed  in  detail. 

Golder  Associates,  under  subcontract  to  ERT,  collected  information 
from  the  U.S.  Geological  Survey  (USGS)  and  used  information  available 
from  the  Clear  Creek  baseline  study  reports  to  characterize  the  geology 
of  the  region.   They  also  collected  seismic  information,  developed  a 
predictive  model,  and  prepared  a  report  on  seismic  hazards  in  the  region 
for  the  Rangely  pipeline  studies.   This  report  was  also  used  to  identify 
seismic  hazards  for  the  La  Sal  pipeline  studies.   Aerial  reconnaissances 
of  the  corridors  were  used  for  further  assessment  geotechnical  concerns. 
Areas  noted  as  potential  hazard  areas  were  documented  with  photographs. 


2-1 


The  geologic  maps  prepared  for  the  corridor  areas  are  based  on 
published  information  (see  references),  field  reconnaissance  (from  the 
air  and  ground),  and  interpretation  of  aerial  photos.   The  corridor  area 
selected  for  geologic  mapping  is  approximately  1  mi  in  width,  with  the 
proposed  pipeline  in  the  center.   Geologic  contacts  on  the  maps  represent 
geologic  units  that  were  based  on  USGS  quadrangle  maps  and  inferred  from 
the  field  reconnaissance  and  air  photo  interpretation.   The  majority  of 
the  inferred  geology  was  simplified  because  detailed  mapping  of  the 
study  area  could  not  be  accurately  performed  based  only  on  field 
reconnaissance.   For  example,  on  the  Rangely  alternatives  map  (Map  1), 
the  Mesaverde  Group  has  been  mapped  as  just  K   in  all  areas  except  the 
Rangely  Quadrangle. 

2 . 3  Soils  and  Reclamation  Potential 

Soils  studies  were  conducted  to  determine  the  extent  and  status  of 
existing  soil  information  for  the  area,  provide  a  description  of  soils 
occurring  in  the  corridors,  describe  physical  and  chemical  characteristics 
of  soils  that  may  influence  revegetation,  and  provide  input  to  revegetation 
planning  for  the  selected  corridor. 

An  ERT  soils  scientist  and  reclamation  specialist  reviewed  available 
soils  information  prior  to  the  field  reconnaissances.   At  the  time  of 
the  field  surveys,  ERT  contacted  the  U.S.  Soil  Conservation  Service 
(SCS)  in  Grand  Junction  and  collected  soils  information  for  the  study 
areas.   ERT  also  interviewed  the  BLM  in  Grand  Junction  regarding 
available  data  and  reclamation  problems  in  their  district.   For  the 
Clear  Creek  to  La  Sal  corridors,  soils  narratives  and  mapping  were 
available  from  both  site-specific  Chevron  data  and  SCS  data  from  Rio 
Blanco  County.   The  Rangely  corridor  study  used  only  SCS  data. 

Aerial  reconnaissances  of  all  proposed  corridor  routes  were 
conducted  by  helicopter.   Stops  were  made  along  each  route  to  allow 
qualitative  evaluations  of  topsoil  depth,  soil  type,  erosion  potential, 
and  other  physical  and  chemical  constraints  on  revegetation.   The  aerial 
reconnaissance  provided  data  on  the  desirability  and  environmental 
suitability  of  each  of  the  routes  relative  to  reclamation  concerns. 
Soils  were  mapped  using  existing  information  provided  by  the  SCS  and 
Chevron. 


2-2 


' 


2.4  Water  Resources 

Water   resouces  studies  consisted  of  collecting  sufficient 
information  to  describe  existing  surface  and  groundwater  resources 
and  characterize  existing  water  uses.   Information  was  obtained  from  the 
BLM,  ERT's  Clear  Creek  Baseline  Report,  and  the  field  reconnaissance. 

2.5  Vegetation 

Vegetation  studies  for  the  pipeline  corridors  were  completed  to 
identify  and  describe  vegetation  communities,  plant  successional  trends, 
land  use  practices,  existing  wildlife  habitat,  and  any  potential 
habitats  for  threatened  or  endangered  species.   In  addition,  vegetation 
maps  and  acreage  calculations  of  communities  to  be  disturbed  were 
prepared  as  part  of  the  study.   The  plant  ecologist  collaborated  with 
the  reclamation  specialist  in  evaluating  revegetation  potential. 

For  information  on  the  existence  of  threatened  and  endangered 
plants  and  their  habitats,  livestock  stocking  rates,  and  future  land  use 
plans,  ERT  contacted  the  BLM  offices  in  Craig,  Meeker,  and  Grand  Junction. 

Stereo  color  aerial  photography  of  1:64,500  scale  obtained  from  the 
U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  was  used  for  vegetation  mapping  on  the 
Rangely  alternatives.   Vegetation  was  interpreted  and  mapped  onto 
1:24,000  USGS  quadrangles.   For  the  La  Sal  alternatives,  vegetation 
mapping  was  done  on  1:50,000  scale  maps  from  1:24,000  color  aerial 
photos  obtained  from  the  BLM.   Both  surveys  used  a  1-mile  corridor  to 
define  the  mapping  boundaries  for  the  pipeline  routes. 

Aerial  reconnaissance  of  the  pipeline  routes  was  used  to  verify 
cover  type  and  land  use  and  observe  any  evidence  of  successional  trends. 
Observers  also  made  ocular  estimates  of  total  cover  at  each  stop. 

2.6  Wildlife 

Wildlife  studies  of  the  pipeline  corridors  were  completed  to 
describe  qualitatively  the  use  and  quality  of  habitats  present  along  the 
pipeline  routes.   Emphasis  was  given  to  identifying  critical  or  important 
habitats  such  as  elk  and  mule  deer  wintering  areas,  sage  grouse  strutting 
grounds,  riparian  habitats,  and  habitats  of  threatened  and/or  endangered 
species.   Because  the  studies  were  conducted  at  different  times,  the 
Rangely  study  concentrated  on  describing  the  wildlife  resources  in  the 


2-3 


study  region,  while  the  La  Sal  study  attempted  to  qualitatively  evaluate 
the  quality  of  the  wildlife  habitat  along  each  route  alternative. 

Prior  to  field  investigations,  wildlife  information  collected  for 
the  Clear  Creek  baseline  reports  and  published  information  pertinent  to 
the  region  were  reviewed.   Additional  wildlife  data  was  collected  during 
meetings  with  the  BLM.   Critical  winter  range  for  elk  and  mule  deer  (as 
designated  by  CDOW  Wildlife  Resources  Information),  riparian  habitats, 
and  any  known  habitats  of  threatened  and  endangered  species  were  also 
mapped  from  available  information. 

During  the  aerial  reconnaissances  of  the  Rangely  and  La  Sal 
corridor  alternatives,  an  ERT  wildlife  biologist  recorded  the  types  of 
wildlife  habitat  present,  their  quality,  and  evidence  of  use.   In 
addition,  all  wildlife  observed  during  the  flyover  were  recorded. 

2. 7  Aquatic  Ecology 

Primary  emphasis  was  given  to  identifying  the  presence  of 
threatened  or  endangered  species  (Colorado  cutthroat  trout)  and 
recreationally  important  species  (trout) . 

Prior  to  the  field  reconnaissances,  the  ERT  aquatic  biologist 
reviewed  published  information  on  the  water  quality  and  hydrology  of 
streams  in  the  study  area  and  contacted  the  Colorado  Division  of 
Wildlife   (CDOW)   regarding  the  resident  fisheries  and  potential 
occurrence  of  threatened  and  endangered  fish  species  in  potentially 
affected  streams. 

Because  of  the  paucity  of  available  information  relevant  to  the 
small  streams  potentially  affected  by  the  Rangely  pipeline  alternatives, 
some  limited  qualitative  sampling  was  conducted  at  proposed  stream 
crossing  locations.   Stream  habitats  were  characterized  and  grab  samples 
of  benthic  communities  were  collected  and  identified.   Fishes  were 
investigated  using  a  backpack  electroshocking  unit.   For  the  La  Sal 
pipeline  alternatives,  existing  information  available  in  the  Clear  Creek 
baseline  reports  and  for  Piceance  and  Parachute  Creeks  was  used  to 
characterize  aquatic  life  in  the  study  area. 


2-4 


2.8  Cultural  Resources 

The  objectives  of  the  cultural  resource  studies  conducted  for  the 
pipeline  routes  were  to  identify  any  sites  listed  or  eligible  for  listing 
on  the  National  Register  of  Historic  Places  (NRHP)  and  describe  the 
resources  likely  to  occur  along  the  pipeline  corridors.   The  Laboratory 
of  Public  Archaeology  (LOPA) ,  under  subcontract  to  ERT,  conducted  a  file 
search  of  Colorado  Historical  Society,  LOPA,  Colorado  State  University, 
University  of  Colorado,  and  BLM  records  to  identify  the  occurrence  or 
potential  for  cultural  resources,  including  historical  and  archaeological 
resources,  along  the  routes.   Paleontological  investigations  were  not 
included  in  the  program. 

LOPA  archaeologists  also  participated  in  the  aerial  reconnaissances 
of  the  pipeline  corridors.   This  provided  the  project  archaeologist  with 
an  overview  of  the  regional  topography  and  helped  identify  areas  that 
warranted  investigation  from  the  ground.   LOPA  archaeologists  later 
visited  these  areas  of  special  interest.   All  recorded  sites  and  any  new 
sites  identified  during  the  reconnaissance  were  mapped. 

2.9  Visual  Resources 

Visual  resources  studies  were  conducted  to  identify  sensitive  areas 
along  the  routes  and  to  describe  the  visual  and  aesthetic  quality  of  the 
existing  environment.   Mr.  Merlyn  Paulsen,  under  subcontract  to  ERT, 
collected  information  on  Visual  Resource  Management  (VRM)  Classifications 
from  BLM  offices  in  Grand  Junction  and  Meeker.   Mr.  Paulsen  also  viewed 
the  routes  during  the  aerial  reconnaissances.   From  the  air,  he 
documented  the  study  area's  visual  and  aesthetic  characteristics  and  any 
sensitive  areas  with  photographs. 

VRM  classifications  developed  by  the  BLM  were  mapped  for  a  1-mile 
wide  corridor  along  each  route.   The  classes  provide  guidance  on  the 
intensity  of  management  needed,  or  the  degree  of  modification  which  is 
acceptable  in  the  study  area.   The  process  used  to  assign  management 
classes  integrates  three  major  considerations:   (1)  the  existing  scenic 
quality  of  the  landscape,  (2)  the  relative  sensitivity  of  residents  and 
visitors  to  changes  in  visual  characteristics  of  the  area,  and  (3)  the 
distances  between  the  evaluation  area  and  observation  points  from  which 
it  is  usually  observed.   In  the  BLM  methodology,  each  of  these  factors 


2-5 


is  subjectively  evaluated  and  assigned  a  relative  value  ranking 
(e.g.,  high  viewer  sensitivity).   The  five  management  classes  are 
defined  by  the  various  combinations  of  values  of  the  three  primary 
factors . 

2.  10   Land  Use 

The  primary  objectives  were  to  characterize  existing  land  use 
practices  and  recreational  resources  along  the  corridors.   Pertinent 
information  regarding  land  use  and  recreational  resources  in  the  study 
area  was  summarized  from  published  information  and  from  data  collected 
during  the  field  reconnaissance. 


2-6 


3.0  RESULTS  AND  DISCUSSIONS 

3. 1  Climate  and  Air  Quality 

3.1.1  Regional  Setting 

The  climate  of  the  Roan  Plateau  region  is  continental  and  semi-arid 
with  warm  summers  and  cold  winters.   Precipitation  and  temperature  are 
directly  influenced  by  elevation,  thus  local  climates  may  vary 
considerably.   Average  annual  precipitation  ranges  from  9  to  21  inches 
(BLM  1980).   Precipitation  at  the  higher  elevations  occurs  mainly  as 
snowfall  from  late  September  to  April  with  highest  accumulations  in 
December,  January,  and  February.   Rainfall  at  lower  elevations  occurs  in 
late  spring,  late  summer,  and  fall,  with  the  majority  falling  in 
thunderstorms  of  short  duration  and  high  intensity.   Temperatures  vary 
widely  throughout  the  year  from  highs  of  about  100°F  during  summer  to 
lows  below  0°F  during  winter.   The  number  of  frost-free  days  varies  with 
elevation.   Prevailing  winds  are  from  the  west  with  variations  due  to 
local  topography. 

Air  'quality  in  the  area  is  generally  very  good,  with  occasional 
high  particulate  concentrations  resulting  from  "fugitive  dust" 
(BLM  1980).   Particulate  concentrations  are  highest  during  summer  and 
fall,  usually  resulting  from  vehicular  traffic  on  dirt  roads  associated 
with  oil  and  gas  activity  in  the  Douglas  Creek  drainage.   Oil  shale 
development  activity  in  Parachute  Creek  Canyon  also  contributes  to  local 
levels  of  particulate  concentrations.   Minute  concentrations  appear  to 
exist  for  sulfur  dioxide,  hydrogen  sulfide,  carbon  monoxide,  and 
nitrogen  oxide. 

3 . 2  Topography  and  Geology 

3.2.1  Regional  Setting 

Physiography.   The  proposed  pipeline  routes  are  located  in 
northwestern  Colorado,  between  the  White  and  Colorado  Rivers,  in  an  area 
known  as  the  Piceance  Basin  (Figure  3-1).   The  basin  occupies  an  area  of 
1,600  square  miles  in  Rio  Blanco,  Garfield,  and  Mesa  Counties.   Elevations 
range  from  4,900  feet  on  the  Colorado  River  near  DeBeque  to  9,400  feet 


3-1 


Figure  3-1        INDEX    MAP  SHOWING  THE  PICEANCE  CREEK  BASIN 


«£  WYOMING 


20 

_1_ 


30MILES 

_l 


After  Coffin,  et  al.,1971 


3-2 


at  the  crest  of  the  cliffs  northwest  of  Rifle.   Most  of  the  area  is  a 
plateau  that  stands  1,000  to  4,000  feet  above  the  nearby  river  valleys. 
The  southern  and  highest  part  of  the  plateau  has  been  deeply  dissected 
and  terminates  in  the  Roan  Cliffs,  a  very  irregular  line  of  high, 
precipitous  cliffs  with  talus  slopes  at  the  base.   Other  parts  of  the 
plateau  rim  are  more  regular,  lower,  and  less  precipitous,  except  for 
the  Cathedral  Bluffs  in  the  northwest. 

In  general,  the  land  surface  slopes  gently  downward  from  the  rim 
toward  the  central  part  of  the  plateau  with  the  greatest  dips  occurring 
on  the  eastern  and  northern  slopes.   The  central  part  of  the  plateau  is 
characterized  by  north-  to  northeast-trending  parallel  ridges  and  valleys 
that  have  a  local  relief  of  200  to  600  feet  and  are  asymmetric  in  nature, 
with  long  gentle  slopes  toward  the  plateau  interior  and  short  steep 
slopes  facing  the  rim.   The  differential  resistance  to  erosion  is 
reflected  in  the  step-like  nature  of  the  cliff  faces.   The  Roan  Plateau, 
a  lightly  dissected  divide  separating  the  White  and  Colorado  River 
drainages,  crosses  the  south  central  part  of  the  basin  from  east  to 
west. 

The  northern  and  larger  part  (887  square  miles)  of  the  basin  is 
drained  by  the  White  River  and  its  tributaries,  principally,  Piceance 
and  Yellow  Creeks.   Piceance  Creek  drains  about  620  square  mile  and 
Yellow  Creek  drains  about  260  square  miles.   Streams  in  this  part  of  the 
basin  are  numerous  and  relatively  long  with  gentle  gradients  and  narrow 
alluvial  valleys.    The  southern  part  of  the  basin  is  drained  by  the 
Colorado  River  and  its  tributaries,  principally  Parachute  and  Roan 
Creeks.   The  few  streams  present  in  this  part  of  the  basin  are 
relatively  short  with  steep  gradients  or  falls  from  the  plateau  to  the 
canyon  bottoms.   In  the  west-central  part  of  the  basin  drainage  appears 
to  be  structurally  controlled  with  patterns  ranging  from  trellis  to 
parallel.   Figure  3-2  shows  the  physiography  of  the  basin. 

Stratigraphy.   The  rocks  exposed  along  the  proposed  La  Sal  pipeline 
routes  range  in  age  from  Middle  Eocene  (Tertiary)  to  Quaternary.   The 
stratigraphic  sequence  exposed  along  the  proposed  Rangely  pipeline 
routes  range  in  age  from  Upper  Cretaceous  to  Recent.   The  oldest  rocks 
are  exposed  near  the  White  River  crossing  at  Rangely.   The  youngest 


3-3 


geologic  formation  in  the  corridor  area  is  the  alluvial,  colluvial,  and 
talus  deposits  of  Quaternary  age  primarily  found  along  streams  and 
slopes.   From  Rangely  to  the  Clear  Creek  property,  both  Routes  A  and  B 
cross  progressively  younger  sedimentary  units,  except  where  crossing 
recent  deposits.   Most  contacts  in  the  study  area  are  conformable  and 
often  gradational.   The  oldest  rocks  within  the  La  Sal  corridor  area  are 
contained  within  the  fluvatile  and  lacustrine  deposits  of  the  Green 
River  Formation  of  the  Middle  Eocene  (Tertiary)  age.   Thickness  of  this 
formation  decreases  from  east  to  west. 

In  the  corridor  areas,  the  Green  River  Formation  has  been  subdivided, 
in  ascending  order,  into  three  basic  members:   the  Douglas  Creek,  Garden 
Gulch,  and  Parachute  Creek  Members.   At  the  present  time  the  U.S. 
Geological  Survey  (USGS)  is  in  the  process  of  redefining  the  lower 
members  of  the  Green  River  Formation.   This  report  uses  the  existing 
nomenclature  which  states  that  the  Garden  Gulch  Member  overlies  the 
Douglas  Creek  Member. 

The  geologic  units  encountered  within  the  Rangely  and  La  Sal 
corridor  areas  are  described  in  Appendix  C  and  illustrated  on  Maps  1  and 
2.   Descriptions  of  Mancos  Shale  (of  late  Cretaceous  age)  through  the 
Wasatch  Formation  apply  only  to  the  Rangely  corridor  alternatives;  the 
remaining  descriptions  (Green  River  Formation  through  deposits  of 
Quarternary  Age)  apply  to  both  study  areas. 

Structural  Geology.   The  Piceance  Basin  is  a  large  northwest-trending 
structural  downwarp.   It  is  asymmetric  with  gently  dipping  limbs  on  the 
south  and  west  and  more  steeply  dipping  limbs  on  the  north  and  east. 
The  northwest-trending  axis  is  offset  to  the  east  in  subsurface  materials. 
The  basin  is  bordered  on  the  northeast  and  east  by  the  Axial  Basin 
anticline  and  the  White  River  uplift,  on  the  southwest  by  the  Uncompahgre 
uplift  (an  ancient  feature  of  low  topography  but  high  structural  relief), 
on  the  west  by  the  Douglas  Creek  arch,  and  on  the  northwest  by  the  Blue 
Mountain  and  Rangely  anticlines  and  the  Uinta  uplift.   The  structural 
features  of  the  Piceance  Basin  and  surrounding  areas  are  shown  in 
Figure  3-2. 

The  most  prominent  evidence  of  folding  is  the  Piceance  Creek  dome 
in  the  northeastern  part  of  the  basin.  This  dome  is  10   miles  long  and 


3-4 


CO 
< 

CD 

l±J 
LU 
CC 
O 

UJ 

o 

< 
UJ 
O 

0. 

Ll. 
O 


< 

CD 

< 


o 
o 

_l 

CD 


CM 

I 

<u 

U 

3 
00 
•H 

Pn 


3-5 


has  a  structural  relief  of  200  to  250  feet.   Numerous  small,  parallel, 
northwest-trending,  plunging  anticlines  and  synclines  are  also  present 
throughout  the  basin.   Donnell  (1961)  believes  that  there  may  also  be 
folding  of  the  Green  River  Formation  that  is  not  reflected  in  the 
surficial  Uinta  Formation. 

Based  on  a  report  by  Golder  Associates  (1980),  no  faults  in  the 
study  area  are  known  to  be  active.   However,  numerous  old  faults  are 
present  in  the  study  area  (Maps  1  and  2).   All  of  these  faults  are 
believed  to  be  inactive  and  should  not  affect  the  design  or  performance 
of  the  syncrude  pipeline.   These  northwest-trending,  high-angle,  normal 
faults  are  present  in  the  northeastern  part  of  the  basin,  on  and  just  to 
the  west  of  the  Piceance  Creek  dome.   These  commonly  occur  in  pairs  with 
a  down-dropped  block  or  graben  between  them.   The  maximum  vertical 
displacement  is  200  feet  with  50  feet  being  the  norm.   Numerous  minor 
faults  of  small  displacement  are  found  on  the  graben  surface.   Similar 
parallel  or  en  echelon  faulting  is  sometimes  present  on  the  crest  and 
flanks  of  plunging  anticlines.   The  faults  are  often  filled  with  calcite. 

An  extensive  system  of  joints  and  fractures  exists  in  the  basin, 
with  well-defined  primary  trends  to  the  northeast  and  northwest  and  a 
secondary  east-west  trend.   There  is  a  regularity  in  lateral  variation 
of  joint  density  within  individual  rock  units  and  vertical  discontinuity 
in  joint  density  between  rock  units.   Some  of  the  joints  are  calcite-filled, 
and  all  tend  to  close  with  depth  in  the  lower  portions  of  the  Green 
River  Formation.   In  the  west  central  part  of  the  basin,  there  appears 
to  be  a  partial  adjustment  of  streams  to  the  joint  system,  producing  a 
trellis  to  parallel  drainage  pattern.   Streams  are  aligned  with  the 
primary  joint  trends  where  the  regional  surface  dip  direction  parallels 
a  joint  trend. 

3.2.2  Rangely  Pipeline  Routes 

3.2.2.1   Route  A.   Route  A  will  be  affected  mostly  by  shallow 
bedrock  and  difficult  excavation  conditions.   Erosion  resistant 
sandstone  ledges  of  the  Mesaverde  Formation  encountered  along  this  route 
may  require  blasting  to  excavate.   This  is  especially  true  along  Douglas 


I 


3-6 


Creek  where  numerous  outcrops  of  sandstone  occur  very  close  to 
Highway  139  (see  Map  2) .   Special  construction  considerations  and 
additional  excavation  may  be  necessary  at  many  locations  along  the 
highway.   This  could  result  in  a  sharp,  jagged  trench  floor,  and  sand 
backfilling  may  be  required  to  assure  a  smooth,  firm  surface  for  pipe 
placement.   Topographic  constraints  along  the  recommended  route  south  of 
Rangely  could  make  transportation  of  the  sand  difficult.   Difficult 
excavation  conditions  could  occur  along  this  route  over  a  length  of 
about  8  miles. 

The  Sego  and  Castlegate  Sandstone  will  also  present  excavation 
problems.   These  units  are  very  resistant  to  erosion  and  outcrop  just 
south  of  Rangely.   Bedrock  is  at  or  near  the  surface,  and  excavation  by 
blasting  may  be  required.   Excavation  may  also  be  difficult  within  the 
terrace  deposits  south  of  the  White  River.   Cemented  conglomerates, 
believed  to  be  part  of  the  Terrace  Alluvium,  were  observed  on  the 
surface  near  a  roadcut  in  the  vicinity  of  the  pipeline. 

Depending  on  final  route  location,  numerous  stream  crossings  may  be 
required  for  this  route  along  Douglas  Creek  and  East  Douglas  Creek. 
Relatively  large  excavation  volumes  could  be  expected  for  each  crossing 
in  order  to  meet  Department  of  Transporation  (DOT)  requirements  for 
buried  crossings.   DOT  requires  pipelines  to  be  buried  48  inches  below 
maximum  scour  depth  or  1  foot  into  bedrock. 

The  corridor  area  most  susceptible  to  slope  stability  problems  lies 
along  Soldier  Creek,  at  the  base  of  Cathedral  Bluffs.   Steep  slopes  and 
slope  stability  hazards  along  this  route  could  cause  construction 
difficulties.   Approximately  3,000  feet  of  the  pipeline  route  will  be 
over  areas  with  steep  slopes,  including  the  crossing  of  Big  Horse  Draw. 
Slow,  downslope  creep  movement  of  south  dipping  sandstone  beds  of  the 
Mesaverde  Formation  was  observed*  at  some  locations  south  of  Rangely. 
This  movement  represents  a  potential  stability  hazard  along  the  route. 
Additional  hazards  such  as  faults,  swelling  soils,  and  subsidence  of  old 
underground  mines  are  not  expected  to  be  significant. 

3.2.2.2   Route  A  with  Deviation.   The  possible  deviation  route,  in 
addition  to  being  longer,  has  most  of  the  same  hazards  as  Route  A. 


3-7 


Shallow  bedrock  is  expected  over  a  length  of  approximately  4  miles, 
compared  to  approximately  3  miles  along  the  shorter  Route  A.   Steep 
slopes  will  occur  over  an  approximate  length  of  1,950  feet,  compared  to 
about  2,050  feet  over  Route  A.   Swelling  soils  could  be  a  hazard  for  a 
distance  of  approximately  0.8  miles. 

Numerous  small  coal  mines  are  located  near  Rangely  within  the  Main 
Coal  Unit  of  the  Mesaverde  Group  (Map  1).   At  least  three  mines  are 
present  in  or  near  the  corridor.   Such  old  mines  tend  to  subside  the 
overlying  ground  surface  upon  collapse.   A  pipeline  constructed  near 
such  a  mine  could  undergo  differential  displacement  that  could  cause 
severe  damage.   Additional  potential  hazards  such  as  unstable  slopes  due 
to  downslope  creep  movement,  stream  crossings,  and  faults  are  expected 
to  be  similar  to  those  encountered  along  Route  A. 

3.2.2.3   Route  B.   The  proposed  Route  B  could  involve  excavation 
difficulties  over  a  length  of  about  2.5  miles.   Route  B  crosses  the 
Parachute  Creek,  Garden  Gulch,  and  Douglas  Creek  members  of  the  Green 
River  Formation  approximately  between  mile  posts  25  and  30  (Map  1). 
Bedrock  is  expected  to  be  shallow  (0  to  5  feet) ,  and  excavation 
difficulties  will  be  limited  to  isolated  sections  where  outcrops  of 
erosion  resistant  sandstone  occur.   In  addition  to  crossing  the  White 
River,  the  Route  B  location  would  cross  Douglas  Creek  once  and  Gillam 
Draw  twice,  depending  on  the  final  alignment.   Steep  slopes  are 
encountered  only  along  the  upper  portion  of  Big  Ridge,  near  Cathedral 
Bluffs,  for  a  distance  of  about  250  feet  and  at  the  head  of  Gillam  Draw. 
No  evidence  of  unstable  slopes  was  observed  during  the  field 
reconnaissance . 

Swelling  soils  could  be  encountered  in  excavations  into  the  Buck 
Tongue  Member  of  the  Mancos  Shale  south  and  east  of  Rangely.   The 
potential  for  swell,  however,  is  believed  to  be  small  and  probably  would 
not  impact  the  pipeline.   No  detailed  geology  or  fault  mapping  was 
available  for  the  majority  of  Route  B.   Based  on  the  seismic  study, 
however,  the  hazard  potential  from  possible  fault  displacement  is  small. 


3-i 


3.2.3  La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes 

3.2.3.1  Route  1  (Route  Segment  1  Only) .   The  pipeline  along 
Route  1  would  be  affected  by  steep  topography,  shallow  and  resistant 
bedrock,  near  surface  groundwater  conditions,  stream  crossings,  and 
geologic  hazards.   The  majority  of  Route  1,  from  mile  5  to  mile  22, 
traverses  fairly  gentle  and  mild  topographic  conditions  that  are  typical 
of  the  ridges  on  the  plateau  area.   Slopes  are  generally  less  than 

20  percent  and  pipeline  construction  conditions  and  long-term  stability 
conditions  should  be  good.   Areas  where  steep  slopes  and  increasingly 
difficult  construction  conditions  could  occur  exist  from  mile  0  to  5 . 
Route  1  traverses  three  separate  drainages  where  sideslopes  range  from 
20  to  25  percent.   From  mile  22  to  26  the  pipeline  route  traverses 
slopes  ranging  from  20  to  57  percent. 

Excavation  is  not  expected  to  be  difficult  along  this  route,  except 
in  an  isolated  area  near  mile  26  where  resistant  sandstone  ledges  were 
observed  during  the  field  reconnaissance.   The  depth  to  bedrock  is 
generally  shallow  within  the  Route  1  corridor  area  and  residual  soils 
have  developed  over  the  parent  rock  materials  in  most  areas  not  covered 
by  Quaternary  deposits.   Depths  to  competent  bedrock  in  this  area  can 
generally  be  expected  to  be  greater  than  3  ft,  and  excavation  problems 
should  be  minimal. 

Geologic  hazards  such  as  landslide  and  rockfall  potential,  seismic 
hazards,  and  swelling  and  collapsible  soils  are  expected  to  be  minimal 
along  this  route.  Two  faults  are  crossed  near  mile  24  (Map  2).  Based 
on  the  seismicity  report  (Golder  Associates  1980),  however,  the  area  is 
seismically  inactive  and  these  faults  are  not  expected  to  present  a 
significant  hazard  to  long-term  pipeline  performance.  Minor  rockfalls 
were  observed  at  the  base  of  the  steep  slopes  near  mile  26. 

3.2.3.2  Route  1A  (Route  Segments  1-1A-1).    The  majority  of 
Route  1A  (mile  2  to  16)  runs  along  the  East  Fawn  Creek  valley  and 
contains  stream  deposits  which  are  associated  with  high  groundwater 
levels.   Numerous  stream  crossings  are  possible  along  this  route,  but 
geological  hazards  are  expected  to  be  minimal.   While  eight  faults  are 
located  between  miles  12  and  15  along  Route  1A,  the  area  is  considered 
seismically  inactive  (Golder  Associates  1980) . 

3-9 


3.2.3.3  Route  2  (Route  Segments  1-2).   The  pipeline  route  generally 
runs  along  Ridge  Road,  which  is  the  drainage  divide  between  Piceance 
Creek  to  the  north  and  Clear  Creek  to  the  south  (Figure  3-1).   By  staying 
along  the  ridge  crest,  this  route  avoids  such  geologic  problems  as  high 
groundwater  in  stream  channels,  stream  crossings,  landslide  areas,  and 
construction  difficulties  associated  with  working  on  steep  slopes. 
Bedrock  will  be  generally  shallow,  2  to  3  feet,  and  should  be  excavated 
with  little  or  no  difficulty. 

The  short  portion  of  the  route  which  follows  the  Wet  Fork  drainage 
(approximately  6  miles)  crosses  areas  having  near  surface  groundwater 
and  relatively  steep  slopes.   Some  construction  difficulties  can  be 
expected  along  this  portion  of  Route  2.   Geologic  hazards  such  as  faults 
and  landslides  appear  to  be  non-existent.   Based  on  available  literature, 
no  faulting  or  landslide  debris  are  located  along  the  Route  2  corridor 
area . 

3.2.3.4  Route  2A  (Route  Segments  1-2-2A-2) . 

The  first  2  miles  along  Route  2A's  deviation  from  Route  2  follow  a 
ridge  in  which  minimal  geologic  constraints  would  exist.   The  rest  of 
the  route,  however,  follows  along  a  stream  valley  in  which  near  surface 
groundwater,  stream  crossings,  and  relatively  steep  slopes  occur. 

3.2.3.5  Route  2B  (Route  Segments  2B-2A-2B-2) .   Route  2B  will  be 
affected  by  geologic  constraints  such  as  topography,  shallow  bedrock 
conditions,  high  groundwater  levels,  numerous  stream  crossings,  and 
landslide  potential.   This  route  drops  in  elevation  approximately 
1,200  feet  between  miles  1  and  2.   Bedrock  is  near  surface  and 
excavation  is  expected  to  be  difficult.   A  near  vertical  cliff, 
approximately  100  feet  in  height,  is  also  located  along  this  stretch.   A 
similar  situation  exists  from  miles  10  to  11,  where  the  route  rises  in 
elevation   approximately   1,000  feet.    A  near  vertical   cliff, 
approximately  100  feet  high,  is  included  in  this  section. 

From  miles  2  through  10,  the  pipeline  route  runs  along.  Clear  Creek. 
This  stream  valley  consists  primarily  of  stream,  fan,  and  terrace 
alluvium,  is  flanked  throughout  its  length  by  talus  and  landslide 
debris,  and  contains  near  surface  groundwater.   Numerous  stream 


3-10 


crossings  could  exist  along  this  route.   Locating  the  route  near  the 
base  of  the  hillside  could  result  in  unstable  excavations.   Talus  or 
landslide  deposits  are  marginally  stable  and  undercutting  of  the  toe 
could  cause  unstable  conditions  within  the  slope.   Shallow  alluvial 
stream  deposits,  with  potentially  high  groundwater  levels,  are  located 
along  Wiesse  Creek  from  miles  11  to  14. 

The  remainder  of  Route  2B  generally  follows  along  Jackrabbit  Ridge, 
where  geologic  conditions  are  favorable  for  pipeline  construction.   High 
groundwater  levels  could  exist  from  mile  21  to  23,  where  the  route 
enters  a  stream  valley  with  moderately  steep  slopes  and  alluvial  deposits. 

3.2.3.6  Route  2C  (Route  Segments  1-2-2C-2) .   Route  2C  is  identical 
to  Route  2  except  for  the  portion  of  the  route  which  continues  to  follow 
along  the  Ridge  Road  rather  than  following  the  Wet  Fork  drainage.   This 
eliminates  construction  problems  associated  with  near  surface  groundwater 
and  steeper  slopes  along  the  Wet  Fork  portion  of  Route  2. 

3. 3  Soils  and  Reclamation  Potential 

3.3.1  Regional  Setting 

This  assessment  is  based  on  soil  characterizations  and  existing 
information  and  deals  only  with  the  various  route  segments  in  Rio  Blanco 
County.   Comparable  soils  data  for  the  pipeline  route  in  Garfield  County 
were  not  available  when  the  study  was  conducted.   Table  A-l  in  Appendix  A 
outlines  the  potential  chemical  and  physical  constraints  for  each  soil 
mapping  unit  located  along  the  proposed  routes.   This  table  was  used  to 
develop  the  specifics  discussed  below.   All  mileage  values  cited  below 
are  approximate. 

Soils  map  units  are  depicted  on  Maps  3  and  4.   These  units  are 
composed  of  two  or  three  kinds  of  soils  that  occur  in  association  with 
each  other,  but  are  mapped  together  because  of  the  mapping  scale  and 
similarities  in  reclamation  capability  and  other  soil  characteristics. 
The  major  criteria  for  grouping  soils  into  mapping  units  were  geographic 
association  and  similarities  in: 

•  Rock  fragment  content 

•  Depth  to  bedrock 


3-11 


•  Climatic  regime  (temperature,  moisture,  length  of  growing  season) 

•  Percent  Slope 

•  Thickness  of  A  (surface)  horizon. 

3.3.2  Rangely  Pipeline  Routes 

3.3.2.1  Route  A.   Route  A  is  42.8  miles  long.   Soils  exhibiting  a 
combination  of  slope,  high  coarse  fragment  content,  low  available  water 
capacity  (AWC) ,  significant  erosion  hazard,  and  shallow  soil  depth 
constraints  are  found  on  13.4  miles  of  the  route.   Soils  that  are 
calcareous  and  alkaline  to  the  degree  that  range  seeding  is  not 
advisable  occur  on  10.3  miles  of  the  route.   Moderate  to  strongly 
alkaline  or  calcareous  soils  and  soils  which  are  strongly  alkaline  at 
depth  are  found  on  5.0  and  2.1  miles,  respectively.   Revegetation  with 
these  materials  would  be  difficult.   Soils  exhibiting  possible 
constraints  due  to  slope  and  high  erosion  hazard  occur  on  1.8  miles  of 
the  route.   Similarly,  soils  not  constrained  by  slope  yet  exhibiting  a 
high  erosion  hazard  are  found  along  2.1  miles.   Mapping  units  having 
little  soil  material  (rock  outcrop,  badlands,  etc.)  occur  on  only 
0.1  miles  though  some  complexes  contain  these  "soil"  types  in  varying 
percentages . 

Soils  along  16  miles  of  Route  A  are  suited  to  range  seeding. 
Suitability  for  range  seeding,  however,  may  not  be  a  totally  accurate 
measure  of  revegetation  potential  due  to  soil/overburden  mixing.   However, 
it  can  serve  as  an  indication  of  reclamation  potential  given  appropriate 
construction  practices. 

3.3.2.2  Route  A  with  Deviation.   Characteristics  of  soils  along 
the  48.0  miles  of  this  alternative  differ  slightly  from  Route  A.   Soils 
exhibiting  the  combination  of  slope,  high  coarse  fragment  content,  low 
AWC,  significant  erosion  hazard,  and  shallow  soil  depth  constraints 
occur  along  14.5  miles  slightly  more  than  Route  A.   Strongly  calcareous 
and  alkaline  soils,  which  are  not  suited  to  range  seeding,  are  found  on 
11.4  miles  of  the  route  as  compared  to  10.3  miles  of  Route  A.   The 
mileage  of  soils  in  other  constraint  catagories  parallel  those  of  Route  A 
with  the  exception  of  units  exhibiting  limited  soil  material.   Units  of 


3-12 


this  type  occur  on  0.8  miles  of  this  alternative.   Soils  on  approximately 
15.9  miles  of  this  route  are  suitable  for  range  seeding. 

Soils  in  the  upland  portions  of  this  route  and  Route  A  appear  to 
pose  few  chemical  problems  for  revegetation.   Erosion  will  be  a  problem, 
however,  due  to  slope  and  perhaps  surface  soil  texture.   Rill  erosion 
was  observed  throughout  much  of  this  area.   Gully  erosion  appears  to  be 
occurring  between  ridges  and  soil  creep  was  observed  on  several  hillsides. 

Soils  in  Douglas  Creek  appear  to  have  high  levels  of  salts  and 
sodium  as  evidenced  by  white  salt  surface  deposits  and  native  vegetation 
(greasewood,  four-wing  saltbush) .   These  soils  are  very  unstable  when 
disturbed  and  are  susceptible  to  wind  and  water  erosion.   Severe 
streambank  cutting  was  observed  along  Douglas  Creek.   These  soils  may 
contain  a  high  percentage  of  coarse  fragments  at  lower  depths  in  the 
profile . 

3.3.2.3   Route  B.   Route  B  is  about  48.2  miles  long.   Soils 
exhibiting  a  combination  of  revegetation  constraints  exist  on  29.7  miles 
of  the  route.   Strongly  calcareous  and  alkaline  soils  occur  on  1 . 7  miles. 
Strongly  alkaline  soils  at  depth  and  soils  with  a  high  erosion  hazard 
are  found  on  1.6  and  1.2  miles,  respectively.   Soils  with  a  combination 
of  slope  and  high  erosion  hazard  constraints  and  mapping  units  exhibiting 
limited  endemic  soil  materials  occur  on  9.6  and  1.1  miles  of  this  route, 
respectively.   Approximately  21.5  miles  of  this  route  are  suited  to 
range  seeding. 

Route  B  does  not  contain  significant  mileage  of  soils  limited  by 
chemical  characteristics.   However,  this  alternative  does  exhibit  a 
higher  mileage  of  soils  constrained  by  slope,  coarse  fragment  content, 
and  erosionhazjird.-  Route  B  appears  to  offer  the  greatest  potential  for 


reclamation/ revegetation  of  a  disturbance  associated  with  pipeline 
construction. 


3.3.3  La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes 

3.3.3.1   Route  1  (Route  Segment  1  Only) .   Route  1  crosses  two  soil 
moisture  and  temperature  regimes.   Above  about  7,400  feet,  the  soils 
receive  18  to  20  inches  of  precipitation  annually  and  typically  have 


3-13 


cold  mean  annual  soil  temperatures.   The  growing  season  is  relatively 
short,  about  80  days.   Below  about  7,400  feet,  at  approximately  mile  14, 
the  soils  have  warmer  mean  annual  temperature  regimes,  but  annual 
precipitation  drops  to  about  14  inches.   The  growing  season  lengthens  to 
90  to  100  days. 

Route  1  exhibits  the  greatest  range  of  soil  characteritics  among 
the  route  alternatives.   Approximately  2  miles  (7  percent)  of  the 
pipeline  are  occupied  by  the  Starman-Rock  Outcrop-Irigul  complex,  which 
is  characterized  by  shallow,  rocky  soils  on  steep  slopes  above 
7,400  feet.   Approximately  5  miles  (about  17  percent)  of  the  route  are 
occupied  by  the  Parachute-Dateman  complex  on  relatively  flat  high 
ridgetops.   A  similar  portion  of  the  route  is  occupied  by  the  steeper 
Parachute-Dateman-Irigul  complex,  which  occurs  on  sideslopes.   The 
Irigul  soil  is  shallow  and  stony. 

The  Rhone-Northwater-Silas  Variant  association  occupies  about 
2.8  miles  (approximately  10  percent)  of  the  pipeline  route,  on  high, 
cold  sideslopes  and  swales.   These  are  deep,  organic-enriched,  loamy 
soils . 

The  major  soil  type  along  Route  1  is  the  Rentsac-Redcreek-Castner 
complex,  which  occupies  about  7  miles  (approximately  24  percent)  of  the 
route.   These  are  shallow,  stony  soils  on  ridgetops  and  sideslopes, 
typically  under  pinyon- juniper  woodland.   Associated  with  this  unit  is 
the  Rock  Outcrop-Torriorthents  complex,  which  also  contains  shallow, 
rocky  soils  and  occupies  about  6.4  miles  (22.5  percent)  of  the  route. 
Both  of  these  units  occur  along  the  warmer,  drier  portion  of  the  route 
towards  Piceance  Creek,  between  miles  15  to  26. 

Minor  soils  along  Route  1  are  the  Camborthids-Haplargids  complex, 
the  Veatch-Work  complex,   and  the  Glendive-Havre-Nihill  Variant 
association.   These  soils  are  moderately  deep  and  generally  loamy  in 
texture.   Combined,  they  occupy  about  1.5  miles  (about  5  percent)  of  the 
route.   They  occur  along  drainageways  and  on  flatter  ridgetops  in  the 
warmer,  drier  portion  of  the  route  in  the  vicinity  of  Piceance  Creek. 

3.3.3.2  Route  1A  Route  Segments  (1-1A-1).   Route  1A  transects  soil 
temperature  and  moisture  regimes  similar  to  Route  1.   However,  the 
majority  of  Route  1A  contains  deep,  loamy  soils  in  the  drainageway.   The 


3-14 


Rhone-Northwater-Silas  Variant  association  occupies  about  4  miles  (about 
22  percent)  of  the  route,  from  the  starting  point  to  mile  4.  These  are 
cold,  organic-enriched  soils  with  short  growing  seasons.   From  mile  4  to 
16,  the  route  is  occupied  by  the  Glendive-Havre-Nihill  Variant  complex. 
These  are  deep,  loamy  soils  formed  primarily  from  streamlain  alluvium. 
In  the  vicinity  of  Piceance  Creek,  from  mile  14  to  16,  these  soils  are 
used  for  irrigated  and  sub-irrigated  pasture  and  haylands.   The 
Glendive-Havre-Nihill  Variant  complex  occupies  about  11.5  miles,  or 
64  percent,  of  Route  1A.   The  remaining  portion  of  the  route  is  occupied 
by  the  Rock  Outcrop-Torriorthents  units,  from  mile  16  to  18. 

3.3.3.3  Route  2  (Route  Segments  1-2) .   The  soil  resources  along 
Route  2  are  characterized  by  cold  soil  temperature  regimes  and  a  short 
(approximately  80  day)  growing  season.   About  5  miles  of  the  route  are 
occupied  by  the  Parachute-Dateman  Complex  on  flat  ridgetops.   The 
Parachute-Dateman-Irigul  complex,  on  steep  sideslopes,  occupies  an 
additional  8.5  miles.   These  units  are  composed  of  moderately  deep  and 
shallow  soils  with  high  contents  of  rock  fragments.   Depth  to  bedrock 
ranges  from  about  10  to  30  inches.   Approximately  5  miles  of  Route  2  are 
occupied  by  the  Rhone-Northwater-Silas  Variant  association,  which  is 
characterized  by  deep,  loamy  soils.   About  1  mile  of  the  route  is 
occupied  by  the  Starman-Rock  Outcrop-Irigul  unit,  which  is  very  steep 
and  shallow  to  bedrock. 

In  summary,  the  soils  along  Route  2  exhibit  a  wide  range  of 
stoniness  and  depth  to  bedrock.   About  15  miles  of  the  route  occur  over 
steep  sideslopes  formed  by  side  drainages  on  the  plateau.   The  soils 
along  Route  2  receive  18  to  20  inches  of  annual  precipitation,  but  the 
growing  season  is  limited  to  about  80  days. 

3.3.3.4  Route  2A  (Route  Segments  1-2-2A-2).   The  soil  resources  on 
Route  2A  are  essentially  the  same  as  those  described  for  Route  2, 
although  the  units  occur  in  different  proportion.   About  4  miles  of 
Route  2A  (along  the  deviation  from  Route  2)  is  occupied  by  the  deep, 
loamy  soils  of  the  Rhone-Northwater-Silas  Variant  association.   The 
steeply  sloping  Parachute-Dateman-Irigul  complex  occupies  approximately 
1.2  miles  of  this  route.   An  additional  1.3  miles  are  occupied  by  the 


3-15 


flatter  Parachute-Dateman  complex  on  ridge  crests.   The  Starman-Rock 
Outcrop-Irigul  complex  occupies  the  remainder  of  the  Route  2A  deviation 
from  Route  2. 

3.3.3.5  Route  2B  (Route  Segments  2B-2A-2B-2).    Soil  resources 
occurring  along  mile  1  of  Route  2B  are  the  Rhone-Northwater-Silas 
Variant  association  and  the  Parachute-Dateman-Irigul  Complex.   These 
soil  units  were  previously  described  under  Routes  1  and  2.   Between 
miles  1  and  11  of  Route  2B ,  the  pipeline  crosses  vertical  cliffs  of  the 
Green  River  Formation  and  associated  talus  slopes.   Soils  occurring 
adjacent  to  and  intermingled  with  the  cliffs  are  included  in  the 
Starman-Rock  Outcrop-Irigul  Complex  as  previously  described.   Soils 
occurring  on  the  talus  sideslopes  are  in  the  Lolo-Grobutte  association. 
These  are  deep,  highly  permeable  soils  containing  up  to  8  percent  rock 
fragments.   The  low  cohesion  of  these  soils,  combined  with  their  steep 
slopes,  severely  limits  their  suitability  for  use  as  a  pipeline 
right-of-way.    The  topography  and  rockiness  of  the  Starman-Rock 
Outcrop-Irigul  Complex  further  decreases  the  suitability  of  this  route. 

The  Clear  Creek  valley  between  miles  2  and  10  is  occupied  by  deep, 
gravelly  and  sandy  soils  of  the  Rivra-Rivra  Variant-Bitton  assocation. 
These  soils  are  highly  permeable  and  overlie  the  water  table.   The 
remainder  of  Route  2B  is  occupied  by  soils  as  described  for  Route  2. 

3.3.3.6  Route  2C  (Route  Segments  1-2-2C-2) .   Soil  resources  along 
Route  2C  are  generally  the  same  as  those  described  for  Route  2.   The 
Parachute-Dateman  complex  occupies  a  greater  proportion  of  Route  2C , 
since  it  follows  the  ridgetop. 

3 . 4  Water  Resources 

3.4.1   Regional  Setting 

Drainage  in  the  study  area  vicinity  is  divided  by  the  southern  edge 
of  the  Roan  Plateau  separating  flow  to  the  north  and  to  the  south.   The 
area  to  the  north  is  drained  by  Piceance  Creek  into  the  White  River 
drainage  system;  the  area  to  the  south  is  drained  by  Roan  Creek  and 
Parachute  Creek  into  the  Colorado  River  drainage  system.   As  discussed 


3-16 


in  the  previous  section,  the  Roan  Plateau  has  moderate  relief  with 
elevations  up  to  8,000  feet.   The  plateau  has  been  deeply  dissected  as  a 
result  of  regional  uplift  with  relief  up  to  4,000  feet  between  the 
plateau  and  canyon  floors. 

Surface  water  records  indicate  that  Piceance  Creek  and  a  few  of  its 
major  tributaries  are  perennial  streams.   Spring  discharge  during  the 
dry  season  often  accounts  for  the  majority  of  the  flow.   Streamflow  may 
disappear  where  the  alluvium  is  thick  and  then  reappear  where  the  alluvium 
thins  and  the  saturated  zones  reach  the  channel  bottom.   Water  in  the 
uplands  is  supplied  only  by  precipitation,  but  bottomland  precipitation 
is  supplemented  with  irrigation  diversions,  groundwater  discharge,  and 
runoff  from  adjacent  valley  slopes.   The  surface  water  supplies  of  the 
Piceance  Basin  are  moderately  developed  for  irrigation. 

Chemical  analyses  of  water  samples  collected  at  points  on  Piceance 
Creek  indicate  total  dissolved  solids  (TDS)  of  about  600  mg/1  on  the 
average.   Concentrations  of  dissolved  solids,  sodium,  chloride,  and 
fluoride  all  increase  in  the  downstream  direction  (Weeks  et  al.  1974). 

The  principal  subsurface  water-bearing  zones  in  the  basin  are  the 
Tertiary  (Eocene)  Uinta  Formation,  the  upper  Green  River  Formation,  and 
the  stream  valley  alluvium.   The  Uinta  Formation,  exposed  over  much  of 
the  basin,  is  recharged  directly  from  infiltration  of  precipitation, 
estimated  to  be  0.8  inches  annually  (Weeks  et  al.  1974).   Springs 
discharging  up  to  3  cfs  are  numerous  at  the  contact  between  the  Uinta 
Formation  and  the  Green  River  Formation.   The  Parachute  Creek  Member 
contains  the  most  permeable  rocks  in  the  Green  River  Formation.   Within 
the  Green  River  Formation,  the  fractured  A  and  B  Grooves  exhibit  a 
degree  of  secondary  permeability  and  porosity  and  represent  relatively 
significant  regional  aquifers.   The  valley  alluvium,  however,  is  the 
principal  source  of  usable  groundwater.   Although  of  limited  extent, 
short  term  discharge  rates  can  be  as  high  as  1,000  gpm.   Groundwater 
flow  is   controlled  by  recharge  on  the  uplands  with  downdip  flow  toward 
Piceance  Creek.   Horizontal  permeabilities  are  normally  much  greater 
than  vertical  permeabilities.   Locally,  shallow  groundwater  movement  is 
toward  the  tributary  valley  bottoms. 

The  Roan  Creek  and  Parachute  Creek  basins  are  characterized  by 
streamflow  to  the  south  cutting  across  the  structural  dip  toward  the 


3-17 


Colorado  River.   Both  drainage  basins  show  evidence  of  structural 
control  by  separate  pairs  of  parallel  synclines-anticlines  trending 
north-northwest.   There  are  numerous  short  tributary  segments  with 
relatively  steep  gradients.   Streams  have  dissected  deeply  through 
Tertiary  sediments  down  into  the  Wasatch  Formation  underlying  the  Green 
River  Formation.   The  southern  edge  of  the  Roan  Plateau  is  marked  by  a 
fall  line  with  vertical  relief  of  about  600  feet.   At  this  point,  the 
streams  cut  through  the  resistant  sandstone  units  of  the  Parachute 
Member  into  less  resistant  strata.   The  result  is  a  system  of  deeply 
dissected  canyons  with  vertical  walls  with  relief  up  to   2,000  feet. 
Alluvium  and  terrace  deposits  of  Quaternary  age  occur  as  stream  valley 
deposits  along  Clear  Creek.   These  deposits  range  from  5  to  20  feet 
thick  on  the  plateau  and  average  100  feet  thick  in  the  canyon  bottom. 
Landslide  and  talus  deposits  of  Quaternary  age  occur  at  the  base  of  the 
steep  Roan  Cliffs.   Valley  floor  widths  range  from  25  to  100  feet  on  the 
plateau  and  from  500  to  1500  feet  in  the  canyon  bottom. 

Surface  water  records  indicate  that  Parachute  Creek,  Roan  Creek, 
and  reaches  of  some  of  the  major  tributaries  are  perennial.   Springs 
discharging  during  the  dry  season  often  account  for  the  majority  of  the 
flow.   Streamflow  may  disappear  where  the  alluvium  is  thick  and  then 
reappear  where  the  alluvium  thins  and  the  saturated  zone  reaches  the 
channel  bottom.   Precipitation  in  the  valley  bottoms  is  supplemented 
with  irrigation  diversions,  groundwater  discharge,   and  runoff  from 
adjacent  uplands.   The  water  resources  of  Roan  Creek  and  Parachute  Creek 
are  fully  developed  for  irrigation.   Chemical  analyses  of  water  samples 
collected  at  points  on  Roan  Creek  and  Parachute  Creek  drainages  show  TDS 
ranging  from  188  to  520  mg/1.   Concentrations  of  TDS,  sodium,  chloride, 
and  fluoride  all  increase  in  the  downstream  direction. 

3.4.2   Rangely  Pipeline  Routes 

3.4.2.1   Route  A.   Streams  that  may  be  affected  by  the  proposed 
pipeline  construction  include  Soldier  Creek,  Lake  Creek,  Cathedral 
Creek,  East  Douglas  Creek,  Douglas  Creek,  and  the  White  River.   All  are 
perrenial  streams.   Soldier  and  Lake  Creeks  are  tributaries  of  Cathedral 
Creek,  which  empties  into  East  Douglas  Creek. 


3-1! 


Soldier  Creek 

Soldier  Creek  is  a  headwater  stream  that  receives  runoff  from  the 
Roan  Plateau  and  eventually  empties  into  Cathedral  Creek.   Soldier  Creek 
originates  at  an  elevation  of  about  8,500  feet  and  flows  into  Cathedral 
Creek  at  an  elevation  of  about  6,800  feet.   The  stream  is  narrow,  with 
widths  ranging  between  3  and  8  feet  and  depths  of  4  to  10  inches. 
Because  of  soil  characteristics  in  the  area,  the  stream  is  turbid, 
particularly  during  periods  of  snowmelt.   The  stream  lies  in  an  eroded 
gulley  with  steep-cut  banks  and  meanders  considerably  throughout  its 
course.   The  bottom  substrate  in  riffle  areas  is  predominantly  gravel 
and  silt  with  some  cobble;  pools  are  characterized  by  silt-dominated 
bottoms . 

Lake  Creek 

Lake  Creek  is  the  best  quality  stream  in  the  study  area.   The 
stream  is  a  tributary  of  Cathedral  Creek,  originating  at  an  elevation  of 
about  7,200  feet.   Widths  range  from  about  3  to  6  feet,  while  depths 
range  from  less  than  4  to  approximately  36  inches.   The  stream  is 
relatively  clear  compared  to  other  waters  in  the  Douglas  Creek  drainage. 
Silt  loads  are  probably  periodically  high,  since  silt  and  gravel  dominate 
the  bottom  substrate. 

Cathedral  Creek 

Cathedral  Creek  is  characterized  as  a  small  headwater  that  is 
shallow  (depths  generally  less  than  2  feet)  and  narrow  (widths  between  5 
and  15  feet) .   Most  of  the  stream  is  situated  within  highly  erodable 
gullies  that  meander  through  sagebrush  and  greasewood  bottoms  (BLM  1980). 
The  unstable  channel  banks  and  gullies  results  in  a  great  deal  of  erosive 
cutting  during  storm  events.   Serious  bank  sloughing  and  sediment-laden 
stream  beds  were  noted  during  low  flow  conditions. 

East  Douglas  Creek 

The  stream  is  larger  with  widths  from  about  5  to  20  feet  and  depths 
of  4  to  16  inches.   The  water  in  East  Douglas  Creek  is  turbid  but  less 
than  conditions  in  Cathedral  Creek.   The  bottom  substrate  is  mainly  silt 
and  gravel  with  small  amounts  of  cobble. 


3-19 


Douglas  Creek 

Douglas  Creek  receives  water  from  East  Douglas  Creek  and  flows 
predominantly  northward,  emptying  into  the  White  River  about  2  miles 
northeast  of  Rangely,   Colorado.   Douglas  Creek  is  used  almost 
exclusively  for  irrigation. 

Table  3-1  summarizes  the  USGS  gaging  station's  data  in  the  area  of 
interest.   Surface  water  in  most  streams  in  the  region  results  primarily 
from  surface  runoff.   However,  base  flow  in  perennial  streams  during  low 
flow  periods  is  fed  by  groundwater.   Snowmelt  runoff  occurs  during  the 
months  of  May  and  June.   High  intensity  short  duration  thunderstorms 
cause  the  main  streamflow  peaks  during  the  summer  months  of  July  and 
August.   Water  usage  for  Douglas  Creek  and  its  tributaries  is  presented 
in  Table  3-2.   Douglas  Creek  carries  an  insignificant  percentage  of 
water  in  the  White  River. 

White  River 

The  White  River  originates  on  the  White  River  Plateau  in  the  White 
River  National  Forest  and  flows  west  to  its  confluence  with  the  Green 
River  in  Utah.   In  the  study  area,  spring  snow  melt  and  summer 
thunderstorms  contribute  most  of  the  surface  runoff,  with  peak  discharges 
and  sediment  yields  normally  resulting  from  the  summer  thunderstorms. 
Near  Rangely,  the  flow  ranges  from  237  to  3,940  ft3/s,  and  an  average  of 
6,636  tons  of  suspended  sediment  is  discharged  per  day  (BLM  1980). 

3.4.2.2  Route  A  With  Deviation.   No  additional  streams  are  crossed 
by  the  deviation;  conditions  would  be  the  same  as  those  described  above. 

3.4.2.3  Route  B.   Route  B  would  cross  only  Douglas  Creek  and  the 
White  River;  conditions  would  be  the  same  as  those  described  above. 

3.4.3   La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes 

3.4.3.1   Route  1  (Route  Segment  1  Only) .   The  first  segment  of 
Route  1,  from  mile  0  to  mile  5.5,  is  located  within  the  Roan  Creek  Basin 
(Clear  Creek  drainage).   The  second  segment  of  Route  1,  from  mile  5.5  to 
mile  26.5,  is  located  within  the  Piceance  Creek  basin. 


3-20 


1— 1 

w 

1 

H 

on 

I— i 

W 

§ 

kJ 

oa 

os 

< 

o 

H 

fe 

+J 
d 


o 
cj 


oo 

> 

N 

< 

CO 

<-H 

U 

d 

0; 

■H 

oo 

s 

M 

X! 

U 

tfi 

•H 

X 

Q 

TO 

2 

T3 
U 
O 
O 

U 

OS 

4-1 

o 
o 

•r-l 
S-I 

OJ 
0-1 


TO 
<U 
S-i 
< 

OJ 
00 
03 
fl 

•H 
TO 
S-I 

Q 


TO 

X 

d 

ea 

0<r- 

•H 

S-i 

TO 

OJ 

> 

4-1 

to 

BS 

3 

w 

X3 

• 

u 

S-I 

o 

>^ 

u 

OJ 

lT) 

S-i 

en 


O 


Cl 

w 
OJ 

s-i 
0-1 


eg 


o 

ON 


>> 

r-l    3 

<U    i— i 

00  o 

C     --H 

to  os 

OS 

d 

<u  5s 

o 

>    CM 

•H 

O   H 

4-> 

X 

TO 

TO   r-» 

U 

<N 

o 

S-I 

K-l 

0)    CJ 

>  w 

T3 

•H    CO 

c 

OS 

TO 

,#* 

OJ  w 

01 

4->    CO 

s 

•H   «V» 

TO 

XI  3: 

55 

3    CO 

OJ 

>>  1— 1 

•1-1 

X 

•H 

TO 

i— 1 

I— 1 

TO 

■H 

3 

TO 

cr1 

> 

TO 

M 

OJ 

[fl 

+J 

-O 

TO 

S-I 

3 

O 

u 

O 

OJ 

125 

u 

o 
un 

<N 

en 


oo 


o> 


5^ 

OJ 

r— 1 

00  3: 

d 

r— > 

TO 

o 

X 

1 — 1 

as 

<Sj 

J4 

z 

U 

r— i 

OJ 

H 

u 

CJ 

•. 

«v» 

TO 

g 

rH 

00 

•« 

3 

->v» 

O 

w 

a 

:ri 

on 

00 

r*~ 

o 

CJ 

4-> 

S-I 

o 

Oh 

4) 

OS 

TO 

4-> 

TO 

Q 

U 

0) 

+J 

TO 

3 

00 

r» 

c^ 

i—i 

S-i 

TO 

(U 

>. 

• 

4-> 

U 

S-I 

<u 

o 

+J 

X! 

TO 

tfl 

3 

o 

** 

o 

O 

4-» 

-o 

TO 

T3 

S-l 

S-i 

o 

o 

rH 

o 

o 

OJ 

o 

S-I 

S-I 

m 

o 

o 

4-1 

T3 

TO 

o 

4-1 

•H 

TO 

S-I 

Q 

1) 

04 

w 

OJ 

- 

u 

TD 

S-I 

<U 

d 

4-J 

o 

d 

w 

<u 

OJ 

w 

OS 

0) 

S-I 

S-I 

04 

OJ 

4-1 

(U 

TO 

00 

3: 

S-| 

TO 

. 

X! 

CO 

o 

w 

O 

•H 

-o 

CO 

0) 

3 

00 

TO 

S-i 

0) 

01 

> 

u 

TO 

S-I 

d 

O 

o 

55 

CO 

H 

3-21 


TABLE  3-2 
IRRIGATION  WATER  USE  FOR  DOUGLAS  CREEK  AND  TRIBUTARIES 


Name 


Source 


Annual  Total  Water 
Volume  (acre  feet) 


Middle  Creek  Ditch 
Lewis  Ditch 
Mitchell  Ditch 
Bowman  Ditch 
Pool  Ditch 
Soldier  Creek  Ditch 


Douglas  Creek 
Douglas  Creek 
East  Douglas  Creek 
Bowman  Draw 
Lake  Creek 
Soldier  Creek 


489.1 
154.4 
255.0 
87.6 
128.7 
378.2 


Source:   Annual  Water  Division  Report,  Division  of  Water 
Resources  State  of  Colorado,  1978. 


3-22 


The  surface  water  resources  along  the  first  segment  are  limited  to 
minor  flows  from  limited  runoff  and  spring  discharge  at  the  headwaters 
of  Clear  Creek.   The  route  crosses  Willow  Creek  and  East  Willow  Creek  at 
right  angles.   Numerous  springs  discharge  from  the  Uinta  Formation  at 
less  than  0.1  cfs  each.   These  streams  are  classified  as  intermittent 
with  channel  flow  occurring  from  April  to  August,  primarily  as  a  result 
of  snowmelt  runoff.   Bank  cutting  and  gully  development  are  significant 
along  Willow  Creek  and  East  Willow  Creek.   Vertical  walls  from  5  to 
15  feet  high  exist  along  the  eroded  banks.   Snowpack  development  is 
substantial  during  winter  months  due  to  the  higher  elevation  (8,000  feet) 
and  the  north-northeast  slope  aspects. 

The  groundwater  resources  along  this  route  segment  are  limited  to 
minor  recharge  from  the  infiltration  of  precipitation  in  the  surficial 
Uinta  Formation  and  silty  loam  soils.   Most  of  this  infiltration  later 
discharges  as  springs  into  the  stream  valleys  on  the  plateau.   The 
alluvium  in  these  valleys  appears  to  be  less  than  10  feet  thick.   High 
water  table  conditions  exist  only  during  months  of  snowmelt  runoff. 
Water  use  along  this  segment  is  limited  to  stock  watering.   There  are  no 
surface  water  storage  facilities  or  diversion  structures  along  the 
route . 

The  surface  water  resources  along  the  second  segment  are  limited  to 
very  minor  runoff  as  the  route  follows  the  crest  of   Hunter  Ridge  to 
Piceance  Creek.   Infiltration  of  precipitation  is  very  high  because  of  a 
sandy  loam  cover  and  an  underlying  permeable  section  of  the  Uinta 
Formation.   Piceance  Creek  is  the  only  stream  crossing  along  this  route 
segment  and  is  the  major  stream  in  the  area.   Average  annual  flow  is 
approximately  15  cfs  with  peak  flows  in  excess  of  400  cfs  (Weeks 
et  al.  1974).   The  alluvial  valley  floor  is  approximately  2,000  feet 
across  with  alluvial  deposits  averaging  about  150  feet  thick.   The 
stream  channel  is  about  40  feet  across  and  mildly  meandering.   Bank 
cutting  along  the  outer  valley  walls  is  significant.   The  south  valley 
wall  is  about  30  feet  high,  developed  vertically  into  sandstone.   The 
north  valley  walls  are  eroded  into  less  resistant  shales  and  siltstone 
with  slopes  exceeding  57  percent.   Gully  development  becomes  severe  in 
these  shale-siltstone  units  at  mile  22  to  mile  23.   Snowpack  conditions 
are  moderate  along  this  route.   Available  water  resources  are  heavily 


3-23 


developed  for  irrigation.   There  are,  however,  no  surface  water  storage 
facilities  or  diversion  structures  along  this  route. 

3.4.3.2  Route  1A  (Route  Segments  1-1A-1).   The  middle  segment  of 
Route  1A,  extending  from  mile  5.5  to  23.5,  is  located  within  the  East 
Fawn  Creek  and  Fawn  Creek  stream  valley  bottoms  from  mile  5.5  to  14. 
The  segment  then  follows  the  stream  valley  bottom  of  Black  Sulphur  Creek 
down  to  mile  15.5  where  it  crosses  Piceance  Creek. 

The  surface  water  resources  along  this  middle  segment  of  Route  1A 
are  the  result  of  limited  runoff  and  spring  discharge  collecting  in  the 
respective  drainages.   Runoff  is  limited  because  the  evaporation  and 
infiltration  rates  are  high,  but  the  drainage  area  is  relatively  large. 
Springs  discharge  contribution  is  significant.   The  streams  are 
classified  as  intermittent  in  the  upper  reaches  while  the  lower  reaches 
are  perennial.   Gully  development  and  bank  erosion  is  significant  along 
those  reaches  where  the  lithology  is  primarily  composed  of  siltstone. 
Vertical  walls  up  to  25  feet  high  exist  along  stream  channels.   The 
alluvial  valley  along  the  upper  reaches  ranges  from  100  to  300  feet 
across,  while  the  lower  reaches  of  the  alluvial  valley  range  from  400  to 
800  feet  across.   The  valley  floor  is  about  1200  feet  across  at  the 
confluence  with  Black  Sulphur  Creek.   The  major  stream  crossing  along 
this  route  is  Piceance  Creek.   Conditions  at  Piceance  Creek  at  this 
crossing  point  are  similar  to  those  at  the  Route  1  crossing  point. 

The  groundwater  resources  along  this  route  segment  are  limited  to 
recharge  from  infiltration  of  precipitation  in  the  highly  permeable 
soils  cover  associated  with  the  Uinta  Formation.   Spring  discharges  of 
up  to  3  cfs  each  have  been  observed  in  the  adjacent  valleys.   The 
groundwater  conditions  in  the  Piceance  Creek  alluvium  at  this  crossing 
point  are  similar  to  the  conditions  at  the  crossing  point  along  Route  1. 
Available  water  resources  are  moderately  developed  for  irrigation. 
There  are  no  surface  water  storage  facilities  or  diversion  structures 
along  the  proposed  route. 

3.4.3.3  Route  2  (Route  Segments  1-2).  The  entire  length  of  Route 
2  is  located  within  the  Roan  Creek  (Clear  Creek  drainage)  and  Parachute 
Creek  basins.   The  surface  water  resources  along  the  route  are  limited 


3-24 


to  minor  runoff  along  the  drainage  divide  between  the  Roan  Creek  and 
Parachute  Creek  basins  and  the  Piceance  Creek  basin.   Soils  are 
relatively  permeable  with  high  evaporation  rates  allowing  little  runoff. 
Gully  development  is  not  significant.   A  few  small  springs  discharge  in 
adjacent  gullies.   Snowpack  development  is  not  signficant. 

Some  near  surface  groundwater  could  be  encountered  along  the 
portion  of  the  route  following  Wet  Fork  (approximately  6  miles).   There 
is  a  spring-fed  stock  pond  at  the  bottom  of  the  Wet  Fork  drainage.   The 
groundwater  resources  along  this  route  are  limited  to  minor  recharge 
from  infiltration  of  precipitation  into  the   silty  loam  soils  and  the 
underlying  permeable  Uinta  Formation.   Water  use  is  limited  to  stock 
watering.   There  are  no  surface  water  storage  facilities  or  diversion 
structures . 

3.4.3.4  Route  2A  (Route  Segments  1-2-2A-2).   Route  2A  is  entirely 
within  the  Parachute  Creek  drainage.   The  surface  water  resources  along 
this  route  segment  are  limited  to  minor  flows  from  runoff  and  spring 
discharge  at  the  headwaters  of  Parachute  Creek.   The  route  segment 
follows  the  stream  valley  along  Wolf  Creek  from  mile  2.5  to  mile  5.5  to 
where  it  crosses  Wolf  Creek  at  a  right  angle.   The  streams  are 
intermittent  with  channel  flow  occurring  from  April  to  August  as  a 
result  of  snowmelt  runoff  and  from  significant  summer  precipitation 
events.   Gully  development  and  bank  cutting  are  moderate  because  of  a 
permeable  sandy  loam  soil.   Snowpack  development  is  high  due  to  narrow 
valleys  and  steep  north-northeast  facing  slopes. 

The  groundwater  resources  along  this  route  segment  are  limited  to 
minor  recharge  from  infiltration  of  precipitation  into  the  sandy  loam 
soils  and  underlying  Uinta  Formation.   Along  the  valley  bottoms  the 
alluvium  appears  to  be  less  than  20  ft  thick  on  the  average.   High  water 
table  conditions  are  likely  to  exist  only  during  the  period  of  snowmelt 
runoff.   Water  use  is  limited  to  stock  watering.   No  surface  water 
storage  facilities  or  diversion  structures  occur  along  the  route. 

3.4.3.5  Route  2B  Route  Segments  2B-2A-2B-2).  Route  2B  is  located 
within  the  Roan  Creek  basin  (Clear  Creek  drainage)  and  Parachute  Creek 
basin.   The  surface  water  resources  along  the  segment  from  mile  0  to  1 


3-25 


are  limited  to  minor  flows  in  the  upper  reaches  of  Clear  Creek  on  the 
Roan  Plateau.   Bank  cutting  is  moderate.   Numerous  springs  discharge 
into  the  valley  bottom.   At  mile  1  the  route  enters  Clear  Creek  Canyon 
at  the  Clear  Creek  fall  line.   The  route  follows  the  bottom  of  Clear 
Creek  valley  to  mile  11.   Valley  floor  widths  range  from  600  to 
1,200  feet.   There  are  nearly  2,000  feet  of  relief  with  vertical  valley 
walls  developed  into  resistant  members  of  the  Green  River  Formation. 
Stream  segments  alternate  from  gaining  to  losing  reaches.   The  lower 
reaches  on  this  route  are  perennial  with  average  annual  flows  in  excess 
of  5  cfs.   Peak  flows  for  the  period  from  1970  to  1980  were  in  excess  of 
325  cfs.   The  water  quality  for  the  lower  canyon  flows  averages  600  mg/1 
total  dissolved  solids.   Quality  of  the  springs  and  alluvial  groundwater 
is  similar  to  that  in  lower  Clear  Creek.   Snowpack  development  in  the 
canyon  is  moderate. 

The  groundwater  resources  in  the  lower  canyon  are  significant  for 
the  area.   Precipitation  infiltrates   at  relatively  high  rates  into  the 
alluvial  floors.   The  alluvium  also  recharges  from  losing  reaches  and 
from  spring  discharge  out  of  the  upper  Green  River  Formation  migrating 
into  the  valley  talus  at  the  canyon  walls.   Wells  in  the  alluvium 
produce  up  to  800  gpm  for  short  term  withdrawals.  Major  springs  discharge 
from  the  alluvium  in  the  lower  reaches  of  Clear  Creek  (mile  8).   These 
springs  discharge  about  10  cfs  and  account  for  streamflow  during  dry 
periods.   The  alluvium  averages  100  feet  in  thickness.   Depth  to  water 
ranges  from  30  to  70  feet  in  the  upper,  losing  reaches.   Water  resources 
in  this  area  are  fully  developed  for  irrigation  uses.   There  are 
numerous  diversion  structures. 

From  miles  11  to  14  the  route  follows  Wiesse  Creek  on  the  Roan 
Plateau.   The  surface  water  resource  is  limited  to  minor  runoff  due  to 
high  infiltration  and  evaporation  rates.   The  channel  is  typically  dry 
except  from  April  to  August  when  it  is  fed  by  snowmelt  runoff  or  from 
significant  summer  precipitation  events.   The  valley  floor  ranges  in 
width  from  50  to  100  feet.   Snowpack  development  is  moderate. 

The  groundwater  resource  along  this  segment  is  limited  to  minor 
recharge  from  infiltration  of  precipitation  into  the  silty  loam  soils 
and  underlying  Uinta  Formation.  Springs  discharge  (less  than  0.1  cfs 
each)  at  the  base  of  the  Uinta  Formation  into  the  valley  bottom.   The 


3-26 


alluvium  appears  to  be  less  than  10  feet  thick  and  is  saturated  only 
during  periods  of  snowmelt  runoff.   Bank  cutting  is  moderate.   Water  use 
is  limited  to  stock  watering.   There  are  no  surface  water  storage 
facilities  or  diversion  structures  along  this  segment. 

The  next  segment  of  Route  2B,  from  miles  15  to  23.5,  follows 
Jackrabbit  Ridge.   The  surface  water  resources  are  limited  to  minor 
runoff.   The  segment  crosses  West  Fork  Parachute  Creek  at  mile  22. 
Surface  flows  are  limited  to  minor  runoff  and  springs  discharge  into  the 
valley.   The  stream  is  classified  as  intermittent  with  channel  flow 
occurring  from  April  to  August  as  a  result  of  snowmelt  runoff  and  from 
significant  precipitation  events.   The  valley  floor  at  the  West  Fork 
Parachute  Creek  crossing  is  about  200  feet  across.   Snowpack  development 
is  high  because  of  the  north-northeastern  configuration  of  the  valley  at 
this  point.   Snowpack  development  is  moderate  on  the  ridge. 

The  groundwater  resource  along  this  segment  is  limited  to  minor 
recharge  from  infiltration  of  precipitation  into  the  silty  loam  soils 
and  into  the  underlying  Uinta  Formation.   Numerous  small  springs  (less 
than  0.1  cfs  each)  discharge  from  the  base  of  the  Uinta  Formation  into 
the  valley  bottom.   Alluvium  in  the  West  Fork  Parachute  Creek  valley  is 
less  than  20  feet  thick.   The  alluvium  is  typically  saturated  only 
during  periods  of  snowmelt  runoff.   Water  use  is  limited  to  stock 
watering.   There  are  no  surface  water  storage  facilities  or  diversion 
structures  along  this  portion  of  the  route. 

3.4.3.6   Route  2C  (Route  Segments  1-2-2C-2).   Water  resources  for 
Route  2C  are  identical  to  those  of  Route  2  except  for  the  portion  of  the 
route  which  follows  Ridge  Road  rather  than  Wet  Fork,  eliminating  the 
likelihood  of  encountering  near  surface  groundwater  along  this  section 
of  the  route. 

3 .5  Vegetation 

3.5.1  Regional  Setting 

Vegetation  types  in  the  study  area  include  plateau  sagebrush, 
plateau  mixed  shrub,  pinyon- juniper ,  aspen,  grassland,  agricultural 
land,  conifer,  valley  mixed  shrub,  saltbush,  greasewood,  valley 


3-27 


sagebrush,  and  valley  riparian.   Distribution  of  each  type  is  primarily 
controlled  by  topography  and  its  influence  on  moisture  availability. 
Other  factors  that  influence  plant  distribution  include  soils  (depth, 
texture,  parent  material,  organic  content,  moisture  holding  capacity, 
and  chemistry)  and  the  interaction  between  different  strata  within  a 
vegetation  type. 

Percent  cover  and  productivity  of  the  vegetation  types  vary  greatly 
from  site  to  site;  differences  are  related  to  variation  in  moisture 
availability  and  soil  properties  (Cook  1974) .   Plateau  sagebrush 
communities  occur  on  slopes  with  a  variety  of  inclinations,  aspects,  and 
soil  depths  (Bechtel  Corp.  and  ECI  1975,  Cook  1974).   Shrub  size  and 
density  appear  to  be  dependent  on  elevation,  exposure,  and  their 
influence  on  available  moisture.   Below  about  6,500  feet,  soils  are 
derived  from  interbedded  layers  of  shales  and  sandstones  (Cook  1974)  and 
are  dry  and  shallow.   Shadscale  and  spiny  horsebrush  are  commonly 
important  associated  shrubs,  while  a  sparse  understory  is  composed  of 
western  wheatgrass,  Hood's  phlox,  squirreltail ,  and  bluegrasses.   Above 
6,500  feet,  big  sagebrush  is  still  the  dominant  species,  but  additional 
shrubs  (bitterbrush,  mountain  mahogany,  serviceberry,  and  snowberry)  are 
common.   Understory  species  include  junegrass,  wheatgrasses ,  Indian 
ricegrass,  needle  grasses,  lupine,  and  yarrow.   Total  plant  cover 
averages  32  percent,  with  big  sagebrush  providing  20  to  100  percent  of 
this  cover  (BLM  1980).   Productivity  varies  with  shrub  density.   Open 
stands  of  big  sagebrush  are  estimated  to  produce  800  to  1,800  pounds  per 
acre  (BLM  1980). 

The  mixed  shrub  type  is  restricted  to  protected  topographic 
positions  such  as  gullies,  foothills,  and  northerly  exposures  at  an 
elevational  range  of  about  7,000  to  8,500  feet.   The  dominant  species 
are  Gambel  oak,  Utah  serviceberry,  mountain  mahogany,  and  snowberry. 
Distribution  and  local  dominance  of  these  species  are  influenced  by 
moisture  requirements  (Cook  1974) .   Gambel  oak  requires  the  most  water 
and  dominates  the  more  moist  sites  providing  up  to  80  percent  cover. 
Utah  serviceberry  dominates  drier  sites.   Shrub  canopy  here  ranges  as 
high  as  80  percent.   Both  oak  and  serviceberry  occur  together  on  sites 
of  intermediate  moisture.   Mountain  mahogany,  snowberry,  chokecherry, 
and  big  sagebrush  may  become  local  dominants  or  share  dominance  along 


3-28 


the  moisture  gradient  (Cook  1974) .   Productivity  of  the  mixed  brush  type 
ranges  from  900  to  1,500  pounds  per  acre  (BLM  1980).   Common  herbaceous 
species  include  wheatgrasses ,  Indian  ricegrass,  needle-and-thread, 
bluegrasses,  carex,  yarrow,  lupine,  and  fringed  sage. 

Pinyon- juniper  occurs  on  all  aspects  and  slopes.   It  occupies  about 
the  same  elevational  range  and  soil  types  as  the  big  sagebrush  type. 
The  two  types  are  separated  primarily  by  soil  depth,  with  pinyon- juniper 
growing  on  the  shallower  soils.   Where  soil  depth  is  intermediate,  the 
two  types  intergrade.   Species  composition  of  the  pinyon- juniper  type  is 
highly  variable  and  depends  primarily  on  elevation  and  soil  parent 
material.   Below  7,000  feet,  Utah  juniper  dominates  the  tree  stratum. 
On  shales,  few  shrubs  are  present.   The  understory  consists  of  scattered, 
stunted  plants  of  junegrass,  beardless  wheatgrass,  Indian  ricegrass, 
needle-and-thread,  and  squirreltail .   Pinyon  pine  and  big  sagebrush  are 
present  on  sandstone-derived  soils.   Understory  species  include  junegrass, 
wheatgrasses,  needle-and-thread,  and  Indian  ricegrass.   Where  the  shale 
and  sandstone-derived  soils  are  deeper,  pinyon- juniper  grades  into  big 
sagebrush.   Above  7,000  feet,  pinyon  pine  is  the  dominant  tree  species. 
The  influence  of  soil  parent  material  on  species  composition  and 
productivity  is  less  pronounced  than  at  lower  elevations  (Cook  1974) . 
Big  sagebrush,  rabbitbrush,  bitterbrush,  mountain  mahogany,  chokecherry, 
and  serviceberry  comprise  the  shrub  layer.   Understory  species  include 
Indian  ricegrass,  wheatgrasses,  needle-and-thread,  Hood's  phlox,  and 
beard-tongue.   Fire  has  historically  played  an  important  role  in 
maintaining  open  stands  of  pinyon  pine  with  productive  understories . 
The  control  and  subsequent  reduction  in  fires  during  the  past  century 
has  resulted  in  the  accumulation  of  leaf  litter  in  the  type.   This  in 
turn  has  repressed  the  development  of  shrub  and  herbaceous  understories. 
As  a  result,  juniper  canopy  cover  has  increased  while  understory  cover 
and  productivity  has  decreased.   Productivity  of  forage  of  the  type  is 
highly  variable,  ranging  from  negligible  in  dense  juniper  stands  to 
300  pounds  per  acre  in  open  stands  (BLM  1980). 

The  aspen  type  occurs  at  elevations  of  about  7,000  to  8,000  feet. 
The  scattered  stands,  generally  only  a  few  acres  in  areal  extent, 
typically   grow   on   steep,   north- facing   slopes.    Soils   are 
characteristically  deep  loams  (ECI  1977).   The  microclimate  of  aspen 


3-29 


■ 

■    - 
\-jvmc.  - 

■>>'.>    pr— g»,   as-. 

-■-.'.  .,■■.,.-■'  .    -_•_ 

,■,-.■■■<  .%    k;;    ;r*Ti.t:-. 

<■■■-.  :>.       v.    >-.-:     -5-.;=:    :-,7i    r.'.r     v. 

.....     .    .,.       ...  ..      .  ....    .<-.     ..,_.„.     ir^     .*r.^n 

/  -  '  .■/■-.■■.■.■'..   ':  -.  .  ■':  -.       >,','.-  :  _  -.  - 

■/'    ■  nttricted  to   level    lands  along 

•  . .  .  ,  .     . 

.  ...     -  .  .         ,.,.      .......  .    ^  ;,  -.->-.£     :."/:     ';>     v. 

/''  !■:;.■/<■.      if,     <■.'■/..■.■      '::■.■:.     -.:.<■      r<  . . .  ey     £L'.,or 

' '-  ''■:'.',',    leet)       Douglas   fir  stands  occur  on 

'■'''■'•''     '  ■■•'  fig    ..',;,<••;   ;i;i';      -.  .  i  ;oterist  ical  ly   include   an 

■  ■     ■   ■ '  /     -'■•',  •      •;,/'/.,•/.      ,  ',-</    produ<  t  j  v  j  t y ,     and    extensive 

■■■   ■" '-'I    %rounii    ■ ', /•  r     ',.>><■  r  j         Th»"    ■■:'ti\'.    of     this    type    range    from 

■■■'    I  '.iki/    ■><  1 1  t  .i  i    »  /(/'•   of    » fi»-    higher    '•  J '••/.-] t  j  on    conifer   sites   to 

'I"     'I'  '  i"  '     I  ■■  iff  I  /     .  )•  <  I  >  •  .i  I     t  yje     '<  f     i  b<-    I  owe  r    '•  J  <•  v.i  f.  i  on    '  on  j  f  er   sites    on 

'  •  I  I  •  /       i  r'i"  I  •"     •  /  >  <     >.  /<  i  .  i  o r  •/    '  .in '<[<•/    j  -,    f  omposed   of    a   nearly  pure 

1  '"'I     ■•  I     ii'.nj'  I  i ';     I  i  i         i In < l«-  r  ■;  i  '-  r  y    \  t  r  n i  t  u  r  <■     i s    var  i  ab  le  .       The    dense 

I      ffl     l " "  i  j »  I  i;     Mi     h.i7<      i    -.j/.i  r  •.»■  I  •/    •/«•}//•  i  ;i  I  e<l    unders tory .      The   more 

■i flfl       I'OJll   llfl     •     <"  II     '!<■/'  I  '.[.«•  'I    shrub    stratum  with    few   forbs    and 

•  ■  ll     f I    li    "   I         The    <l«i mi  ii. mi     low   f/rownig    shrubs    include   myrtle 

i '  ■  ■  I •  V    Nil    '  l  *  ' T  '  "i:    I'  1 1  l'<- 1  i  v         Common    c  hokeeher  ry  ,    Woods    rose  ,    and 

I   '1)1  >  i  y     in      i  In-    lalleril     k,,,w|"K    shrub    species    found    in   this 

I'll Ill-       I'w      l..il.\       mil      y\\  .is; :.i-:.     iixniiion      in     I  he     uiidersLory     are 

1         I      I    '    II  •    II-         .   |]|  .     .        in. I      I   i  II    I  r-.rc.l      I    l  «  egl  .1.-..-;  . 


I     |0 


The  valley,  dry-slope  mixed  shrub  vegetation  type  occurs  along  the 
southwest-  and  west-facing  slopes  of  the  steep  (up  to  70  percent  slope) 
sides  of  the  canyons.   The  soils  underlying  the  sites  are  loamy-skeletal, 
mixed,  of  the  Grobutte  and  Lolo  soil  series.   Several  shrubs  including 
Utah  serviceberry  dominate  the  shrub  stratum.   The  sparse  understory 
consists  of  thistle,  bedstraw,  corymbed  eriogonum,  Louisiana  sagebrush, 
and  Indian  ricegrass.   Other  important  species  include  milkvetch, 
mountain  pepperweed,  and  western  wheatgrass.   A  high  percentage  of 
litter  and  rock  (primarily  rock)  accounts  for  most  of  the  ground  cover. 

The  saltbush  vegetation  occupies  the  steep  valley  sideslopes  in  the 
lower  portion  of  Clear  Creek  Canyon.   Type  composition  consists  of 
scattered  shadscale  saltbush  and  Indian  ricegrass. 

Greasewood  is  the  most  common  cover  type  occurring  in  bottomland 
areas  along  Douglas  Creek  below  6,600  feet  elevation.   Greasewood  is 
dominant  on  deep,  poorly  drained  alluvial  soils  with  moderate  to  high 
salt  levels.   Associated  shrub  species  include  big  sagebrush, 
rabbitbrush,  and  shadscale.   Understory  cover  is  rare  and  extremely 
sparse.   Herbaceous  species  commonly  associated  with  the  type  include 
western  wheatgrass,  cheatgrass,  mustard,  Russian  thistle,  and  fringed 
sage.   The  BLM  estimates  cover  at  about  28  percent  with  productivity  of 
about  400  to  700  pounds  per  acre  (BLM  1980) . 

The  valley  sagebrush  vegetation  type  is  generally  found  in  the 
well-drained,  flat  valley  bottoms  and  alluvial  fans.   Soils  are 
relatively  deep  and  non-saline.   Associated  shrub  species  include 
greasewood,  rabbitbrush,  shadscale,  and  fringed  sage.   Greasewood  is 
present  where  the  surface  soil  contains  some  salinity  and  increases  in 
density  as  salinity  concentrations  increase.   Understory  species  include 
Indian  ricegrass  and  wheatgrasses . 

Valley  riparian  vegetation  *is  restricted  to  narrow  bands  bordering 
the  streambeds  of  Buck  Gulch  and  Clear  Creek.   Species  composition, 
cover,  and  productivity  vary  from  site  to  site,  and  are  influenced  by 
elevation,  geographic  location,  soil  type,  moisture  availability,  and 
past  and  present  land  use,  especially  grazing.   The  valley  riparian 
vegetation  type  is  often  dominated  by  willow,  cottonwood,  or  box  elder 
trees.   Understory  species   include  bluegrasses,  sedges,  rushes, 
dandelion,  clovers,  thistle,  and  milkweed.   The  riparian  type  is 


3-31 


important  because  it  is  capable  of  supporting  higher  population 
densities  and  greater  species  diversities  of  plants  and  animals  than  any 
of  the  other  rangeland  vegetation  types  (BLM  1980). 

Threatened  and  Endangered  Species 

On  December  15,  1980,  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  published 
a  list  of  candidate  threatened  and  endangered  plant  species  for  the 
United  States  in  the  Federal  Register  (FR  45(242):  8240-82569).   This 
list  includes  plants  in  three  categories.   Category  One  candidate 
species  consists  of  species  about  which  sufficient  information  is  known 
to  initiate  listing  recommendations;  Category  Two  species  include  those 
that  may  be  threatened  or  endangered,  but  for  which  insufficient 
information  is  not  available;  Category  Three  species  were  previously 
proposed,  but  were  found  to  be  more  common  than  previously  believed. 

Three  Category  Two  species  and  one  species  included  on  the  Colorado 
Heritage  Inventory  working  rare  plant  list  were  found  on  or  near  the 
Chevron  Clear  Creek  study  area: 


Barneby's  columbine  (Aquilegia  barnebyi)     Category  2 
fescue  (Festuca  dasyclada)  Category  2 

dragon  milkvetch  (Astragalus  lutosus)        Category  2 
sullivantia  (Sullivantia  purpusii)  Colorado  Natural  Heritage 

Inventory  List 


A  brief  discussion  of  the  habitat  requirements  for  each  species,  and  the 
distribution  of  the  species  in  the  region  and  in  the  study  area  are 
discussed  below. 

Barneby's  columbine  (Aquilegia  barnebyi)  and  sullivantia  (Sullivantia 
purpusii)  grow  on  seeps  and  below  waterfalls  on  steep  sandstone  or 
siltstone  cliffs  in  drainages  along  the  Roan  Cliffs,  eastward  into 
Glenwood  Canyon  and  southward  into  Gunnison  County  where  the  plants 
occupy  similar  sites  on  limestone  and  granite  (U.S.  Forest  Service  1979). 
Both  species  were  found  on  small  (less  than  25  acres)  seep  areas  next  to 
the  falls  on  Clear  Creek  and  No  Name  Creek.   Other  good  potential 
habitat  for  these  species  includes  seep  and  waterfall  areas  on  Willow 
Creek,  Sheep  Gulch,  and  Tom  Creek. 


3-32 


The  fescue  grass  (Festuca  dasyclada)  and  dragon  milkvetch  (Astragalus 
lutosus)  occupy  talus  slopes  that  form  below  outcrops  of  the  Green  River 
Formation.   The  fescue  is  presently  known  from  the  eastern  Piceance 
Basin  (vicinity  Rio  Blanco)  and  from  scattered  locations  along  the  south 
face  of  the  Roan  Cliffs  from  Anvil  Points  westward  to  the  Roan  Creek 
drainage  (Emrich  and  Painter  1978).   Dragon  milkvetch  is  known  from 
eastern  Utah  (Uintah  County)  and  has  been  found  in  numerous  (20-30) 
locations  in  the  Piceance  Basin  and  the  Roan  Cliffs  in  Garfield  and  Rio 
Blanco  Counties  (U.S.  Forest  Service  1979).   The  talus  habitat  for  both 
species  is  narrowly  defined.   The  talus  cannot  be  so  unstable  that 
plants  of  any  sort  cannot  establish  themselves,  nor  so  stable  that  big 
sagebrush,  skunkbush  sumac,  or  Indian  ricegrass  can  invade  and  outcompete 
the  fescue  and  the  milkvetch.   The  fescue  particularly  favors  small 
gravelly  talus  that  forms  below  highly  oxidized  oil  shale  outcrops. 
These  talus  slopes  are  typically  reddish  and  easily  distinguishable  on 
color  aerial  photography. 

3.5.2  Rangely  Pipeline  Routes 

3.5.2.1   Route  A.  Nine  vegetation  types  occur  along  the  42.8  miles 
of  Route  A.   Vegetation  cover  types  are  depicted  on  Map  5.   Greasewood, 
sagebrush,  and  pinyon- juniper  are  the  dominant  cover  types  with  31,  29, 
and  24  percent  of  the  pipeline  corridor  length  composed  of  these  cover 
types  (Table  3-3) .   The  remaining  percent  includes  riparian  (8  percent) , 
bare  ground  (1  percent),  mixed  brush  (2  percent),  agriculture  (3  percent), 
and  grasslands  (<1  percent).   Distribution  of  each  type  is  primarily 
controlled  by  topography  and  soils.   Percent  cover  and  productivity  of 
the  vegetation  types  varies  greatly  from  site  to  site,  probably  related 
to  variations  in  soil  property  (Cook  1974) . 

Route  A  contains  the  most  riparian  vegetation  of  any  of  the  routes 
studied  (8%).   This  cover  type  is  present  as  a  narrow  band  along  Cathedral 
Creek,  East  Douglas  Creek,  and  Douglas  Creek.   In  some  areas  its  areal 
extent  has  been  reduced  by  irrigated  hayfields.   Other  types  present 
along  Route  A  include  mixed  brush,  agricultural  lands,  irrigated  hayfields, 
and  a  very  small  portion  (less  than  1  percent)  of  grassland  (Table  3-3). 


3-33 


rl      Ifl 

00 

O 

m    <u 

u    — ' 

CM 

00 

o  ■- 

~T 

-J- 

H  x: 

— 1   « 


U 

s 
as 

Ei 
CO 

o 
u 


X 
►4 

< 


o  cm 

r-  en 

-3-   00 

CO   — 

sO    CM 

CM    O 

CM   CM 

r*   00 


m  o 

CO   1/1 


cm  ~or 

M    O 


in  en 

in  oi 

m  en 

oo  en 

00   CM 

in  — 

00    00 


o  o 

en  p-i 


m  m 
O  en 


o^  r«* 
r-«  cm 


tn  oo 

CM    ~ 

m  cm 

r-*   CM 

cjv  cn 

CM   -^ 

■O    CM 

o  o 


■o 

•■A  £ 
V  3 
l-i     O 


J     CJ     U  w 


3-34 


3.5.2.2  Route  A  With  Deviation.   Construction  along  Route  A  with 
the  deviation  would  affect  similar  cover  types  (see  Table  3-3) .   No 
threatened  and/or  endangered  species  are  likely  to  occur  along  the 
deviation. 

3.5.2.3  Route  B.   Eight  vegetation  types  occur  along  the  48.4  miles 
of  Route  B.   Sagebrush  and  grasslands  are  the  dominant  types  (43  and 

27  percent)   followed  by  pinyon- juniper ,  mixed  brush,  aspen,  and 
agricultural  areas  (17,  4,  3,  and  2  percent).   Route  B  does  not  affect 
any  riparian  areas  but  does  cross  some  areas  covered  with  Douglas  fir 
(less  than  1  percent).   The  sagebrush  is  usually  the  shorter  upland 
variety  of  big  sagebrush  and  occurs  on  coarse  well  drained  soils  with 
stands  of  mixed  brush,  Douglas-fir  and  aspen,  without  greasewood. 
Route  B  also  differs  from  A  in  crossing  several  "grassy  balds"  on 
windswept  slopes  along  the  Cathedral  Bluffs  Road.   The  pinyon-juniper 
type  occurs  primarily  along  Big  Ridge.   Populations  of  rare  plant 
species  occur  near  the  R-O-W.   These  include  populations  of  Astragalus 
lutosus  (dragon  milkvetch) ,  Aquilegia  barnebyi  (Barneby's  columbine), 
and  Sullivantia  purpusii  (sullivantia)  (Map  5). 

3.5.3  La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes 

3.5.3.1  Route  1  (Route  Segment  1  Only) .   The  six  vegetation  types 
occurring  along  Route  1  are  plateau  sagebrush  (40  percent) ,  plateau 
mixed  shrub  (11  percent),  pinyon-juniper  (36  percent),  aspen  (9  percent), 
grassland  (3  percent),  and  agricultural  lands  (1  percent).   Numbers  of 
acres  to  be  disturbed  are  shown  in  Table  3-4.   No  populations  of  rare 
plants  have  been  documented  along  or  adjacent  to  the  pipeline  corridor 
of  Route  1.   The  habitats  along  this  route  are  not  conducive  to  the  rare 
plant  populations  known  to  occur  in  the  Roan  Plateau  area  between  Clear 
Creek  and  Piceance  Creek. 

3.5.3.2  Route  1A  (Route  Segments  1-1A-1).  Six  vegetation  types 
occur  along  this  pipeline  corridor.  These  include  plateau  sagebrush, 
pinyon-juniper,  aspen,  plateau  riparian,  grassland,  and  agricultural 
lands.   The  most  significant  differences  between  the  plant  communities 


3-35 


TABLE  3-4 

ACRES  OF  VEGETATION  TO  BE  DISTURBED  BY 
PIPELINE  CONSTRUCTION1 


Route 

Vegatation  Type 

1 

1A 

2 

2A 

2B 

2C 

Plateau  Sagebrush 

65 

652 

110 

107 

73 

112 

Plateau  Mixed  Shrub 

19 

21 

20 

20 

23 

Aspen 

14 

9 

21 

21 

5 

17 

Pinyon- Juniper 

58 

24 

Grassland 

5 

1 

2 

1 

1 

5 

Plateau  Riparian 

39 

1 

1 

Conifer 

2 

Valley,  Dry-Slope 
Mixed,  Shrub 

Saltbush 

Valley  Sagebrush 

Valley  Riparian 

Agriculture 

Barren 

Total 


163 


25 


163 


155 


150 


2 

7 

20 

38 

1 

1 

170 


157 


1Acreage  calculations  based  on  a  50-foot  right-of-way 

2Sagebrush  primarily  found  adjacent  to  plateau  riparian  type,  resulting  in 
taller,  more  productive  sagebrush. 


3-36 


along  Route  1A  and  Route  1  exist  in  the  plateau  sagebrush  productivity 
levels  and  in  the  total  acreages  of  the  pinyon- juniper ,  plateau  riparian, 
and  agricultural  types.   Map  6  displays  vegetation  types  occurring  along 
the  route. 

3.5.3.3  Route  2  (Route  Segments  1-2).   The  five  vegetation  types 
occurring  along  this  pipeline  corridor  are  plateau  sagebrush  (71  percent), 
plateau  mixed  shrub  (13  percent),  aspen  (13  percent),  plateau  riparian 

(1  percent),  and  grassland  (2  percent).    A  known  population  of  Festuca 
dasyclada ,  a  Category  Two  candidate  species,  would  be  intersected  by  the 
pipeline  Route  2  for  a  distance  of  approximately  2  miles  (mile  10.5  to 
12.5)  (see  Map  7).   This  population  occurs  along  the  West  Fork  of  Parachute 
Creek  including  the  adjacent  plateau  sagebrush  communities  (BLM  1980). 

3.5.3.4  Route  2A  (Route  Segments  1-2-2A-2).   Five  vegetation  types 
occur  along  pipeline  Route  2A:   plateau  sagebrush,  plateau  mixed  shrub, 
aspen,  plateau  riparian,  and  grassland.   These  are  the  same  vegetation 
types  occurring  along  Route  2.   The  riparian  vegetation  type  occurring 
along  Route  2A  at  the  West  Fork  of  Parachute  Creek  contains  scattered 
willows  along  the  streambanks  and  can  be  important  to  wildlife  communities. 
The  population  of  fescue  described  for  Route  2  will  be  disturbed  along 
approximately  2  miles  (miles  4.5  to  6.5)  of  the  pipeline  Route  2A. 

3.5.3.5  Route  2B  (Route  Segments  2B-2A-2B-2).   The  ten  vegetation 
types  occurring  along  the  pipeline  corridor  are  plateau  sagebrush 
(43  percent),  plateau  mixed  shrub  (12  percent),  aspen  (3  percent), 
grassland  (1  percent),  conifer  (1  percent),  valley  mixed  shrub  (dry-slope) 
(1  percent),  saltbush  (4  percent),  valley  sagebrush  (11  percent),  valley 
riparian  (22  percent),  and  agricultural  lands  (1  percent).   The  same 
population  of  fescue  grass  intersected  by  both  pipeline  routes  2  and  2A 
will  also  be  disturbed  along  approximately  3.5  miles  (mile  19  to  22.5) 

of  Route  2B.   Potential  habitat  for  Barneby's  columbine  (Aquilegia 
barnebyi)  and  sullivantia  (Sullivantia  purpusii)  occurs  near  mile  11  of 
Route  2B  along  the  steep  cliff  area  of  Buck  Gulch.   Barneby's  columbine 
is  listed  as  a  Category  Two  candidate  species  and  sullivantia  is  included 
on  the  Colorado  Natural  Heritage  Inventory  working  rare  plant  list. 


3-37 


3.5.3.6   Route  2C  (Route  Segments  1-2-2C-2).   The  four  vegetation 
types  that  occur  along  pipeline  Route  2C  include  plateau  sagebrush, 
plateau  mixed  shrub,  aspen,  and  grassland.   The  impacts  discussed 
previously  for  Route  2  would  apply  to  Route  2C  with  variation  in  total 
acreage  disturbed  (164  ac)  and  acreage  disturbed  for  each  vegetation 
type  (Table  3-4).   Pipeline  Route  2C  would  extend  for  approximately  one 
mile  along  the  outer  edge  of  the  population  of  Festuca  dasyclada 
described  previously. 

3.6  Wildlife 

3.6.1  Regional  Setting 

A  variety  of  wildlife  species  occurs  on  the  many  habitat  types 
crossed  by  the  alternative  pipeline  routes.   Habitat  types  are  described 
above  in  the  vegetation  section.   Limited  data  are  available  for  wildlife 
populations  near  the  study  corridors  with  most  information  being  available 
on  important  game  species. 

The  mule  deer  is  the  most  important  big  game  species  in  the  region. 
Winter  range  is  typically  below  7,400  feet  elevation  on  sagebrush  and 
pinyon- juniper  habitats  (BLM  1980).   Summer  range  is  generally  above 
6,800  feet  in  sagebrush,  mountain  shrub,  aspen,  and  spruce-fir  habitats. 
Elk  are  fewer  in  number  in  the  region  than  mule  deer  but  have  been 
steadily  increasing  in  recent  years.   Both  summer  and  winter  range  occur 
above  7,000  feet  elevation,  with  spruce-fir  and  aspen  used  as  cover  from 
spring  through  fall  and  mountain  shrub  and  pinyon- juniper  used  in  winter. 

Other  mammals  occurring  in  the  region  total  approximately  75  species. 
Predators  include  black  bear,  mountain  lion,  coyote,  bobcat,  gray  fox, 
and  long-tailed  weasel.   Medium-sized  mammals  such  as  desert  and  Nuttall's 
cottontail,  white-tailed  jackrabbit,  beaver,  yellow-bellied  marmot,  and 
porcupine  inhabit  various  habitats  throughout  the  region.   Small  mammals 
are  numerous  and  include  deer  mouse,  least  chipmunk,  and  golden-mantled 
ground  squirrel  as  dominant  species.   Also  occurring  are  Colorado  chipmunk, 
rock  squirrel,  northern  pocket  gopher,  and  bushy-tailed  woodrat.   The 
abundant  small  mammals  provide  an  important  prey  base  for  avian  and 
mammalian  predators. 


3-38 


Four  game  bird  species  occur  in  the  region  including  sage  grouse, 
blue  grouse,  mourning  dove,  and  chukar.   Sage  grouse  occur  in  the 
plateau  areas  in  sagebrush  habitats  where  sagebrush  provides  food  and 
cover  year  round.   Populations  are  stable  in  the  region  and  are  dependent 
on  good  nesting,  brooding,  and  winter  habitat  conditions  (BLM  1980). 
Cathedral  Bluffs  is  year  round  habitat  for  sage  grouse;  several  strutting 
ground  and  winter  concentration  areas  have  been  mapped  by  the  CDOW 
(Map  8).   Blue  grouse  inhabot  mountain  shrub  and  aspen  habitats  during 
the  breeding  season  and  move  to  heavily  timbered  areas  during  winter. 
Populations  are  small  and  scattered  and  sustain  light  hunting  pressure 
incidental  to  hunting  of  other  game  species.   The  mourning  dove  is  a 
common  summer  resident  in  all  habitats  in  the  region.   Nesting  usually 
occurs  in  trees  at  edges  between  habitat  types.   The  chukar,  an  exotic 
game  bird  introduced  into  the  area,  inhabits  rocky  areas  in  sagebrush, 
greasewood,  and  rabbitbrush.   Populations  are  sparse  and  hunting  pressure 
is  probably  minimal. 

Songbird  communities  in  the  various  habitats  of  the  region  are 
typified  by  summer  residents  that  breed  in  the  area  and  migrate  to 
wintering  grounds.   Species  diversity  varies  with  vegetational  structure 
and  diversity  within  each  habitat  type.   Raptor  species  such  as  golden 
eagle  and  red-tailed  hawk  are  common  in  the  region,  preying  on  various 
avian  and  mammalian  species.   Waterfowl  are  uncommon  because  of  the  lack 
of  suitable  habitat. 

Threatened  &  Endangered  Species 

No  federal-  or  state-listed  threatened  species  are  likely  to  occur 
within  the  study  region.   Two  endangered  species,  the  bald  eagle  and  the 
peregrine  falcon,  are  potential  inhabitants  of  the  region.   The  bald 
eagle  winters  each  year  along  the  White  River  but  is  unlikely  to  occur 
along  the  study  corridors  (BLM  1980).   Peregrines  have  been  observed 
performing  courtship  activities  in  Parachute  Creek  Canyon  (Smith  1974) , 
and  the  CDOW  has  designated  the  upper  portion  of  Parachute  Creek  Canyon 
and  its  main  forks  as  potential  nesting  habitat  (CDOW  Wildlife  Resources 
Information).   Similar  habitat  exists  in  the  upper  portion  of  Clear 
Creek  Canyon.   The  nearest  known  peregrine  eyrie  occurs  in  DeBeque 
Canyon  near  Cameo.   This  nest  was  last  active  in  1977  (Craig  1980, 


3-39 


personal  communication).   No  peregrine  nests  are  known  for  either  Clear 
Creek  or  Parachute  Creek  Canyons,  and  during  1980  and  1981  field  studies 
on  the  Clear  Creek  property,  no  peregrine  nesting  activity  or  peregrines 
were  observed  in  Clear  Creek  Canyon  (ERT  1981b).   Since  nest  sites 
preferred  by  peregrines  are  high  cliff  ledges,  usually  near  water,  the 
potential  for  their  nesting  within  the  pipeline  corridor  is  very  low. 

Black-footed  ferrets,  although  not  reported  in  the  area,  may  occur 
wherever  prairie  dog  towns  are  present.   However,  prairie  dog  towns  were 
not  observed  during  the  aerial  reconnaissance  of  the  proposed  pipeline 
corridors.   Whooping  cranes  may  occasionally  fly  over  the  region  during 
spring  and  fall  migration.   A  whooping  crane  was  reported  along  Duck 
Creek,  a  tributary  of  Piceance  Creek,  in  1977.   Whooping  crane  use  of 
the  region  is  expected  to  be  infrequent  and  minimal. 

3.6.2  Rangely  Pipeline  Routes 

3.6.2.1  Route  A.   A  critical  mule  deer  winter  range  or  concentration 
area  occurs  in  the  area  south  of  the  confluence  of  Douglas  and  Cathedral 
Creeks.   Another  small  critical  winter  range  or  concentration  area 
occurs  in  Gillam  Draw  (Map  8).   The  Douglas  Creek  deer  herd  includes 
approximately  2,868  deer  on  summer  range,  1,843  on  winter  range,  and  670 
on  critical  winter  range  (BLM  1980;  1978  population  estimates).   Elk 
also  concentrate  in  winter  south  of  the  confluence  of  Douglas  and 
Cathedral  Creek  and  are  year  round  residents  along  Cathedral  Bluffs. 

Oil  and  gas  development  along  Douglas  Creek  may  currently  or  in  the  near 
future  limit  the  size  of  the  Douglas  Creek  elk  herd  (BLM  1980).   Other 
general  wildlife  conditions  are  described  in  the  regional  setting. 
Wintering  bald  eagles  could  occur  where  Route  A  crosses  the  White  River. 

3.6.2.2  Route  A  with  Deviation.   Conditions  would  be  similar  to 
those  described  for  Route  A. 

3.6.2.3  Route  B.  Conditions  for  to  wildlife  along  Route  B  would  be 
similar  to  those  described  for  Route  A.   Route  B  also  crosses  a  mule 
deer  critical  winter  range  area  in  Gillam  Draw.   No  figures  on  the  size 
of  the  wintering  herd  are  available.   A  few  sage  grouse  strutting  grounds 


3-40 


are  present  along  the  bluffs  near  the  pipeline  route  (Map  8) .   Wintering 
eagles  could  potentially  occur  where  the  route  crosses  the  White  River. 

3.6.3   La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes 

3.6.3.1  Route  1  (Route  Segments  1  Only) .    Route  1  has  a  moderate 
rating  for  wildlife  habitat.   This  route  is  comprised  of  pinyon- juniper 
woodland,  upland  sagebrush  with  rabbitbrush  in  disturbed  areas,  and 
mixed  brush  and  aspen  over  the  remainder.   Pinyon- juniper  woodland 
provides  habitat  for  nesting  songbirds  and  possibly  a  few  raptors.   The 
understory  below  the  tree  canopy  has  very  limited,  sparse  vegetation 
available  as  forage.   The  sagebrush  steppe  is  summer  range  for  big  game 
(primarily  mule  deer)  and  is  habitat  for  sage  grouse.   Approximately 

7  miles  of  the  route  pass  through  mule  deer  critical  winter  range.   A 
sage  grouse  strutting  ground  is  at  the  beginning  of  Route  1  (ERT  1981b). 
This  route  crosses  good  wildlife  habitat  at  Piceance  Creek,  where  the 
riparian  zone  and  irrigated  hayfields  provide  food,  especially  in  winter, 
for  deer  and  elk.   A  herd  of  about  140  wild  horses  range  along  Cathedral 
Bluff  and  the  drainages  leading  to  Piceance  Creek  (Gring  1981). 

3.6.3.2  Route  1A  (Route  Segments  1-1A-1).   Route  1A  has  good 
wildlife  habitat  over  80  percent  of  its  length  and  received  a  high 
wildlife  habitat  rating.   Sixty  percent  of  the  route  is  riparian,  aspen, 
and  mixed  shrub  communities  along  East  Fawn  Creek.   About  20  percent  of 
the  route  (from  mile  0  to  East  Fawn  Creek)  is  aspen  and  mixed  shrub. 
The  remaining  20  percent  is  sagebrush  and  greasewood,  which  are  of 
limited  value  as  big  game  habitats.   However,  this  habitat  is  good  for 
small  mammals  (especially  rabbits)  which  are  important  prey  species.   A 
portion  of  Route  1A  (common  with  Route  1  at  Piceance  Creek)  crosses  mule 
deer  critical  winter  range  (Map  9). 

3.6.3.3  Route  2  (Route  Segments  1-2) .   Route  2  received  a  moderate 
rating  for  wildlife  habitat  quality.   Sagebrush  steppes  provide  summer 
range  for  big  game  and  sage  grouse,  and  habitat  for  songbirds  and  small 
mammals.   Upland  sagebrush  communities  are  common  in  the  region  and 
generally  are  not  as  important  to  wildlife  as  habitats  which  have  more 


3-41 


structural  features  and  components  and  greater  diversity  such  as  the 
aspen,  mixed  brush,  or  riparian  habitats.   This  route  also  follows  an 
area  of  disturbance  in  the  form  of  an  existing  road. 

Good  to  excellent  habitat  is  present  at  the  confluence  of  Wet  Fork 
and  West  Fork  Parachute  Creek.   Here  the  route  drops  into  the  valley 
bottom  where  a  spring-fed  stock  pond  and  surrounding  meadows  provide 
good  habitat  for  wildlife.   Although  the  pond  is  less  than  1  acre,  it  is 
permanent  and  provides  water  for  big  game  and  waterfowl.   The  lush 
meadows  surrounding  the  pond  provide  forage  for  big  game  and  hunting 
habitat  for  predators.   Suitable  nesting  habitat  is  present  for  raptors, 
primarily  red-tailed  hawks,  in  the  Douglas  fir  and  aspen  stands  on  the 
hillsides  next  to  the  meadow.   Two  stream  crossings  associated  with  the 
Route  2  pipeline  corrider  are  proposed  between  mile  10  and  11,  and  at 
mile  11.3,  both  along  West  Fork  Parachute  Creek. 

3.6.3.4  Route  2A  (Route  Segments  1-2-2A-2).   Affected  habitats 
would  include  sagebrush,  aspen,  mixed  brush,  and  riparian  vegetation. 
This  route  received  a  high  rating  for  wildlife  habitat  because  excellent 
habitat  is  present  between  miles  5  and  7  where  the  route  follows  Wolf 
Creek  to  its  confluence  with  West  Fork  Parachute  Creek.   At  the  confluence 
of  the  two  creeks,  a  permanent  pond  is  present  providing  water  for  big 
game  and  waterfowl.   The  permanent  free  water,  wet  meadows  and  aspen 
stands  on  the  adjacent  hillsides  provide  structural  diversity  and  habitat 
components  important  to  big  game  and  other  wildlife  species  such  as  sage 
grouse,  small  mammals,  and  raptors.   More  riparian  vegetation  occurs 
along  Route  2A  than  Route  2  because  Route  2A  follows  Wolf  Creek. 

3.6.3.5  Route  2B  (Route  Segments  2B-2A-2B-2).   Route  2B  received  a 
high  wildlife  rating.   This  route  crosses  good  wildlife  habitat  in  the 
Clear  Creek  Valley,  where  it  intersects  primarily  sagebrush  and  riparian 
vegetation  types.   Affected  habitats  include  plateau  sagebrush,  riparian, 
mixed  brush,  valley  sagebrush,  saltbush,  and  aspen.   This  area  is  critical 
winter  range  for  elk;  both  mule  deer  and  elk  concentrate  in  winter  along 
the  valley  floor  and  south  facing  pinyon-juniper  slopes  of  the  canyon 
(CDOW  1978).   The  canyon  walls  are  potential  nesting  habitat  for  the 
endangered  peregrine  falcon  (BLM  1981c);  however,  no  sitings  of  the 


3-42 


peregrine  have  been  reported  for  the  area  during  extensive  raptor  surveys 
conducted  by  ERT  (ERT  1981b) .   Several  raptor  nests  and  a  golden  eagle 
perch  site  are  reported  for  the  canyon  (ERT  1981b).   Black  bear  and 
mountain  lion  may  occasionally  wander  into  the  upper  reaches  of  Clear 
Creek.   Beaver  are  also  present  in  the  upper  reaches  of  Clear  Creek.   In 
addition  to  being  of  critical  importance  to  big  game,  the  riparian  zone 
provides  habitat  for  many  species  of  wildlife  and  contains  the  greatest 
diversity  of  both  plant  and  animal  species  of  any  habitats  or  communities 
in  the  region  (BLM  1980). 

3.6.3.6  Route  2C  (Route  Segments  1-2-2C-2) .   Wildlife  useage  along 
Route  2C  is  the  same  as  along  Route  2  except  for  the  portion  of  the 
route  that  continues  to  follow  Ridge  Road  rather  than  following  Wet 
Fork.   The  majority  of  Route  2C  traverses  upland  sagebrush.   This  route 
eliminates  the  disturbance  of  habitat  rated  as  good  to  excellent  along 
Wet  Fork  and  one  stream  crossing  of  the  West  Fork  of  Parachute  Creek. 

3. 7  Aquatic  Ecology 

3.7.1   Regional  Overview 

A  regional  overview  of  the  biological  communities  in  the  four  major 
streams  considered  in  this  study  (Willow  Creek,  Piceance  Creek,  West 
Fork  Parachute  Creek,  and  Clear  Creek)  shows  rather  diverse  structure. 
Two  of  the  streams  located  on  top  of  the  Roan  Plateau,  Willow  Creek  and 
West  Fork  Parachute  Creek,  support  trout  populations  consisting  of 
rainbow  trout  and  cutthroat  trout,  respectively.   Piceance  Creek  contains 
mainly  coldwater  nongame  fish  species  such  as  mountain  sucker  and  speckled 
dace,  while  Clear  Creek  exhibits  no  fish  in  the  sections  proposed  for 
pipeline  crossings.   The  only  endangered  fish  species  found  in  any  of 
the  streams  crossed  by  a  pipeline  route  is  the  Colorado  River  squawfish 
found  in  the  White  River.   This  species  is  discussed  further  in 
Section  3.7.2.1  and  is  not  found  along  the  La  Sal  routes.   Benthic 
macroinvertebrates  and  periphyton  communities  in  these  creeks  are 
indicative  of  streams  that  undergo  extreme  fluctuations  in  some  physical 
and  chemical  conditions.   More  detailed  information  is  presented  for 
each  of  these  streams  in  the  appropriate  section  of  the  Clear  Creek 
baseline  report  (ERT  1981a). 

3-43 


3.7.2   Rangely  Pipeline  Routes 
3.7.2.1   Route  A. 

Soldier  Creek 

Fish  populations  in  Soldier  Creek  are  composed  of  cutthroat  trout 
( Salmo  clarki) .   Surveys  conducted  by  ERT  biologists  at  one  location  in 
the  creek  yielded  eight  specimens  ranging  in  length  from  4  to  6  inches. 
Previous  surveys  in  Soldier  Creek  by  BLM  (1980)  listed  cutthroat  trout 
and  brook  trout  (Salvelinus  fontinalis) .   The  Colorado  River  cutthroat 
(Salmo  clarki  pleuriticus)  is  listed  as  threatened  in  Colorado  and  is 
known  to  occur  in  the  Colorado  River  Basin  (Behnke  and  Benson  1980). 
Based  on  five  specimens  collected  in  Soldier  Creek  in  1977  (Behnke  1977), 
the  population  showed  hybridization  between  rainbows  and  cutthroats  but 
resultant  characteristics  were  closer  to  the  Colorado  River  cutthroat. 

Fish  habitat  in  Soldier  Creek  is  marginal,  with  few  pools,  undercut 
banks,  or  debris  to  provide  adequate  cover.   The  small  size  and  low 
flows  of  the  stream  probably  account  for  the  small-sized  fish  (BLM  1980). 
Benthic  macroinvertebrate  numbers  were  extremely  low  in  October  1980, 
with  mayflies,  caddisflies,  and  stoneflies  comprising  the  collection. 
Public  fishing  is  limited  in  Soldier  Creek  because  no  public  access 
exists . 

Lake  Creek 

Lake  Creek  is  classified  as  a  Class  I  water  by  the  CDOW,  indicating 
that  it  contains  a  high  quality  cold  water  fishery.   Fish  populations  in 
Lake  Creek  are  composed  of  cutthroat  trout,  rainbow  trout,  and  speckled 
dace  (Rhinichthys  osculus) .   Surveys  conducted  by  ERT  biologists  yielded 
1  cutthroat,  1  rainbow,  and  approximately  400  speckled  dace  in  a  400  m 
transect.   The  status  of  the  cutthroat  population  is  similar  to  the 
situation  in  Soldier  Creek;  the  specimens  exhibit  Colorado  River  cutthroat 
characteristics  but  hybridization  with  rainbow  trout  has  occurred. 
Habitat  is  moderately  good  in  the  stream,  as  adequate  cover  is  provided 
by  debris-jams,  overhanging  vegetation,  and  numerous  pools  at  stream 
bends.   To  protect  the  cutthroat  and  rainbow  trout  populations  in  Lake 
and  Soldier  Creeks,  the  BLM  will  implement  a  stream  improvement  program 


3-44 


in  1982-1983  aimed  at  reducing  impacts  of  cattle  grazing  in  the  surrounding 
area  (Getman  1982,  personal  communication). 

Cathedral  Creek 

General  stream  conditions  in  Cathedral  Creek  suggest  marginal 
habitat  for  aquatic  organisms.   The  stream  is  extremely  turbid  at  times 
and  channelized  as  a  result  of  erosion.   The  bottom  substrate  is  composed 
mainly  of  silt  and  gravel  in  riffle  areas  with  no  visible  periphyton 
growth.   Benthic  macroinvertebrate  numbers  were  low  with  only  8  taxa 
present  in  October  1980  (Appendix  D) .   The  only  fish  collected  by  ERT 
biologists  were  speckled  dace.   Fish  habitat  is  considered  poor  with 
minimal  cover  and  few  pools. 

East  Douglas  Creek 

Habitat  characteristics  in  East  Douglas  Creek  are  slightly  improved 
over  conditions  in  Cathedral  Creek.   Of  the  four  streams  surveyed  in  the 
study  area,  benthic  macroinvertebrate  numbers  were  highest  in  East 
Douglas  Creek,  largely  due  to  increased  numbers  of  caddisflies.   Fish 
populations  in  East  Douglas  Creek  are  composed  of  low  numbers  of  cutthroat 
trout  (hybrid)  and  speckled  dace.   Numerous  small  pools  are  present  at 
bends  in  the  stream  and  minimal  cover  is  provided  by  undercut  banks  and 
debris-jams. 

Douglas  Creek 

Douglas  Creek  is  a  rather  poor  quality  stream  in  terms  of  aquatic 
resources.   The  extremely  high  silt  loads  in  the  stream  limit  periphyton 
and  benthic  macroinvertebrate  development.   The  bottom  substrate  consists 
predominantly  of  silt  with  small  amounts  of  gravel  and  cobble.   In 
addition,  the  stream  is  channelized  in  most  sections  from  its  confluence 
with  the  East  Fork  of  Douglas  Creek  to  its  entrance  to  the  White  River. 
Fish  habitat  is  poor  with  few  pools  and  minimal  cover.   Silt  loads 
probably  limit  the  use  of  this  stream  by  trout.   The  only  fish  species 
collected  in  surveys  conducted  by  ERT  was  speckled  dace. 


3-45 


White  River 

The  quality  of  aquatic  habitat  in  the  White  River  near  Rangely, 
Colorado  is  poor.   Although  no  published  studies  exist  for  the  river 
segment  near  Rangely,  studies  conducted  by  the  CDOW  upriver  showed 
degradation  of  habitat  below  Piceance  Creek  (Carlson  et  al.  1979).   The 
river  changes  to  a  wide,  shallow  stream  with  extremely  low  summer  flows, 
relatively  high  summer  temperatures,  and  increased  salinity  and  sediment 
levels.   Fishery  habitat  is  minimal  with  few  deep  pools  and  a  general 
lack  of  cover. 

Surveys  conducted  in  the  White  River  northeast  of  Rangely  found 
fish  communities  composed  of  warmwater  species  such  as  carp  (Cyprinus 
carpio) ,  roundtail  chub  (Gila  robusta) ,  red  shiner  (Notropis  lutrensis) , 
fathead  minnow  (Pimephales  promelas) ,  speckled  dace  (Rhinichthys  osculus) , 
bluehead  sucker  (Catostomus  discobolus) ,  flannelmouth  sucker  (C. 
latipinnis) ,  and  mottled  sculpin  (Cottus  bairdi)  (Carlson  et  al.  1979). 
No  recreationally  important  species  are  expected  in  this  section  of  the 
river.   However,  a  potential  concern  is  the  occurrence  of  Colorado  River 
squawf ish  (Ptychocheilus  lucius) ,  which  is  listed  as  endangered  by  the 
federal  and  state  governments  (Behnke  and  Benson  1980).   In  1978, 
squawfish  were  collected  about  20  miles  upstream  of  Rangely  and  upstream 
of  the  confluence  with  the  Green  River  in  Utah. 

3.7.2.2  Route  A  with  Deviation.   No  additional  streams  are  crossed 
by  the  deviation;  conditions  would  be  the  same  as  those  described  above. 

3.7.2.3  Route  B.   Route  B  would  cross  only  the  White  River; 
conditions  would  be  the  same  as  those  described  above. 

3.7.3  La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes 

3.7.3.1   The  following  section  describes  aquatic  communities  in  the 
streams  with  proposed  crossings.   This  information  is  based  largely  upon 
existing  literature  and  surveys  conducted  by  ERT  during  1980.   Of  the 
three  Clear  Creek  tributaries  (Willow,  Mud  Springs,  and  No  Name  Creeks), 
fishery  resources  are  present  only  in  Willow  Creek.   The  fishery  in 
Willow  Creek  consists  of  rainbow  trout  (Salmo  gairdneri) ,  which  occur 


3-46 


throughout  the  mainstem  section  and  West  Fork  Willow  Creek.   Although 
the  original  source  of  these  trout  is  unknown,  stocking  probably 
occurred  in  the  late  1970 's  (Sealing  1980,  personal  communication).   The 
number  of  fish  present  in  the  stream  is  considered  moderate  to  high  for 
small  mountain  streams  with  estimates  ranging  between  14  and  54  per 
1 ,000-foot-section  (ERT  1981a).   The  rather  consistent  small  size  range 
(8  to  10  in)  and  lack  of  young-of-the-year  suggests  that  growth  and 
reproduction  are  limited  in  this  stream. 

In  general,  fish  habitat  characteristics  in  Willow  Creek  are 
adequate  to  support  a  healthy  trout  population  with  numerous  pools, 
abundant  overhanging  vegetation,  and  undercut  banks  providing  adequate 
cover.   However,  some  sections  of  the  stream  represent  marginal  habitat 
during  low  flow  conditions  when  dense  periphyton  growths,  high  water 
temperatures,  shallow  depths,  and  general  lack  of  cover  can  stress  fish 
populations . 

Benthic  macroinvertebrate  communities  in  Willow  Creek  are  quite 
diverse  and  abundant,  providing  an  adequate  food  source  for  the  existing 
trout  population.   Dominant  organisms  consist  mainly  of  baetid  mayflies, 
hydropsychid  caddisflies,  nemourid  stoneflies,  simulid  blackflies,  and 
midge  larvae  (ERT  1981a).   Of  the  three  surveys  conducted  in  1980  by 
ERT,  maximum  numbers  occurred  in  August  when  densities  ranged  between 
1,500  and  2,000  organisms/square  foot.   Minimum  numbers  occurred  in  the 
spring  and  late  fall,  as  a  result  of  scour  from  spring  runoff  and  seasonal 
development  (hatching) .   Information  on  other  aquatic  communities  in 
Willow  Creek  is  lacking.   However,  observations  made  during  aquatic 
surveys  conducted  by  ERT  in  1980  showed  that  filamentous  algal  growth  in 
the  stream  is  extensive  in  late  summer  and  fall. 

Aquatic  resources  in  Mud  Spring  and  No  Name  Creeks  are  limited 
because  of  their  small  size  and  intermittent  flows.   No  fish  occur  in 
either  of  these  streams.   Benthic  macroinvertebrate  and  periphyton 
communities  probably  are  similar  to  those  found  in  Willow  Creek. 

Fish  communities  in  lower  Piceance  Creek  are  mainly  comprised  of 
mountain  sucker  (Catostomus  platyrhynchus)  and  speckled  dace  (Rhinichthys 
osculus)  (Quality  Development  Associates  1977).   Although  both  of  these 
species  can  be  an  important  part  of  the  food  chain,  they  are  not 
recreationally  important  species.   The  only  game  fish  that  has  been 


3-47 


collected  in  this  section  of  the  stream,  but  in  low  numbers,  is  brook 
trout  (Salmo  fontinalis) .   This  species  is  a  fall  spawner  that  migrates 
upstream  to  gravelly  bottom  areas  (Baxter  and  Simon  1970).   Nine 
additional  fish  species  have  been  collected  in  other  sections  of 
Piceance  Creek,  some  of  which  may  occasionally  occur  in  the  vicinity  of 
the  proposed  crossing  (Table  3-5). 

General  habitat  characteristics  in  this  section  of  Piceance  Creek 
suggest  an  environment  that  is  adequate  for  nongame  species  such  as 
suckers  and  minnows  but  marginal  for  trout.   Minimal  cover  for  fish  is 
available,  as  shoreline  vegetation  only  partially  covers  the  stream; 
pools  and  undercut  banks  are  few.   Bottom  substrate  in  this  section  of 
the  stream  consists  of  mud,  compacted  clay,  and  some  unstable  gravel 
(Quality  Development  Associates,  Inc.  1977;  Gray  and  Ward  1978).   High 
sediment  loads  and  large  seasonal  and  yearly  fluctuations  in  flows  and 
water  levels  also  limit  the  development  of  an  abundant  game  fishery. 

Benthic  macroinvertebrate  communities  in  this  section  of  Piceance 
Creek  may  be  indicative  of  rather  high  silt  conditions,  and  warm  summer 
temperatures,  as  found  in  the  Green  River  (Edmunds  and  Musser  1960). 
Dominant  organisms  include  tubificid  oligochaetes  (Limnodrilus  hof fmeisteri 
and  Tubifex  tub if ex) ,  chironomids,  and  mayflies  (Baetis  spp.,  Tricorythodes 
minutus  and  Ophiogomphus  severus)  (Gray  and  Ward  1978).   Macroinvertebrate 
densities  and  biomass  in  the  lower  sections  of  Piceance  Creek  are  relatively 
low  compared  to  upstream  sections  (above  Willow  Creek)  (Gray  and  Ward  1978). 
The  lowest  density  and  biomass  values  usually  occur  at  the  onset  of 
winter,  while  maximum  values  are  found  in  May,  July,  and  October. 

Information  describing  periphyton  communities  in  Piceance  Creek  is 
generally  lacking.   Extensive  filamentous  algal  growths  such  as  Cladophora 
and  Enteromorpha  spp.  occur  in  the  summer  and  fall  (Gray  and  Ward  1978). 
Thirty-six  diatom  species  have  been  identified  in  Piceance  Creek  but 
quantitative  data  are  lacking  (Gray  and  Ward  1978) . 

Stream  crossings  associated  with  the  Route  1  pipeline  corridor  are 
proposed  at  the  following  mile  markers  (approximate  distance  from  pipeline 
origin):   Willow  Creek  (mile  2.5),  No  Name  Creek  (mile  4.2),  Mud  Spring 
Creek  (mile  5.8),  and  Piceance  Creek  (mile  21.7).   The  streams  are  part 
of  two  major  drainages;  Roan  Creek  and  the  White  River.   Willow  Creek, 
Mud  Spring  Creek,  and  No  Name  Creek  drain  into  Clear  Creek,  which  enters 
Roan  Creek  approximately  10  miles  north  of  DeBeque,  Colorado. 

3-48 


« 


CO 

w 

l-J 

< 


co 

« 

O 
H 
< 
O 
i— i 
E-t 
CO 


CO 

o 


CQ 

Q 
W 
H 
02 
O 


CO 
W 
l— I 
CJ 

w 

CO 

w 

CO 


co 
0) 

P-I 


X> 

c 

<u 

i 

0) 

3 

CJ 

s 

•H 

c 

i— 1 

4_> 

o 

OJ 

o 

s-l 

09 

CO 

•H 

ei 

S-l 

H 

> 

c 
w 

m 

4-> 

H  >^ 

CO  CO 

XS  s 
(-1 

0)  TD 

>  fl 

W  co 


rH    "O 

4-»    T5 

01 

o  ~a 

CO 


OJ 

e 

CO 

z 

3 
o 


o 
u 


Pn       rC       p% 


X    X 


X     X     X     X 


xs 
■a 

•H 

<u 

4-1 

•H 

X! 
3 


3 

O 

x> 

•H 
CO 


3 

X> 

M 
U 
CO 


«  CQ  P3   K   ffl 


3 

O  1) 

3  U  S-l 

a  co  <u 

S-l    -H  TT  Jtf 

OJ    S  o 

3  *T3  3 

■H    TJ  II  111 

xs  co  ■-( 

XS  (J  4-i 

T3     4-»  0)  -H 

oj   co  &,  x: 

02  fe  W  3 


?N  ?N 


?N        rS         ?N 


?n       ?S       rS 


s-l 

OJ 

J* 

u 
3    M 

03      <U 

XS    u 

4J      3 


c 

•H 


3 

CO      CJ 
CO 


S  G 

rl-H  T3 

OJ  CO  OJ 

fl  4-»  i-l 

3  3  4-> 

CO  3  4-> 

i— l  o  o 

Pn  s  s 


CO 

CO 

3 

3 

X! 

-3 

•r-l 

CO 

•H 

u 

U 

3 

•H 

3 

3 

3 

O 

r-4 

CO 

CO 

o 

>^ 

>s 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

3 

CO 

-3 

Xi 

S 

3 

•H 

i— 1 

rr 

i-l 

U 

S-l 

co 

•H 

co 

CD 

3 

OJ 

>•. 

>^ 

<u 

■H 

■H 

4-> 

CO 

3 

S 

CJ 

£ 

4J 

u 

e 

r-4 

U 

3 

CO 

CD 

o 

CO 

£ 

CO 

CO 

CO 

rH 

OJ 

O 

i— i 

i-l 

S-l 

o 

o 

r— 1 

r-4 

■H 

z 

•H 

3 

eg  |  m-4 

CO 

<u 

4-1 

a, 

<J 

Cu 

p. 

-a 

3 

-a 

4-> 

4-1 

S 

3 

CO 

S-l 

u 

S-i 

4-) 

CO 

CO 

i— i 

CO 

>> 

CO 

CO 

CO 

•H 

•H 

s 

•H 

3 

"J 

3 

CO 

<U 

Xi 

3 

3 

3 

CO 

4-1 

3 

CO 

u 

3 

XS 

3 

CO 

r^ 

4-1 

E 

E 

E 

X> 

•H 

•H 

00 

4-1    -H 

O 

S-l 

•H 

CO 

-3 

o 

O 

o 

4-> 

Oj 

1— 1 

5-1 

3 

a. 

xi 

CJ 

u 

*J 

4-1 

CO 

3 

O 

o 

O     0) 

i— 1 

o 

ft 

•H 

CO 

w 

CO 

3 

OJ 

CO 

s 

S    > 

CO 

CO 

u 

OJ 

C 

O 

o 

O 

4-4 

•H 

o 

r— 1 

1— 1     r— 1 

r— 1 

4-J 

4-1 

5 

•H 

4-1 

4-> 

jJ 

4-J 

U 

u 

CO 

C0|  CO 

•H 

u 

o 

•H 

x: 

CO 

CO 

fl 

o 

CO 

0-, 

CO 

CO 

GO 

o 

HI 

■z. 

Cu 

a 

cj 

O 

CJ 

CJ 

c^ 


co 
XS 
CO 


3 

<u 

■a 

■H 
U 
U 

o 

T3 

3 
CO 


CO 

X) 
CO 


•H 
O 

XS 
3 
CO 

r— I 

-3 

CO 

< 


3-49 


3.7.3.2  Route  1A  (Route  Segments  1-1A-1).    Stream  crossings 
associated  with  the  Route  1A  corridor  are  proposed  at  the  following 
locations  (approximate  distance  from  pipeline  origin):   East  Fawn  Creek 
(several  crossings  between  mile  1  and  7),  Fawn  Creek  (several  crossings 
between  mile  10  and  13),  Black  Sulphur  Creek  (mile  14.6),  McKee  Gulch 
(mile  16.7),  and  Piceance  Creek  (mile  15.9).   All  of  these  streams  are 
tributaries  of  Piceance  Creek  which  ultimately  empties  into  the  White 
River.   Aquatic  ecology  characteristics  of  Piceance  Creek  are  presented 
in  Section  3.7.3.1.    The  following  section  characterizes  biotic 
communities  in  the  other  stream. 

General  habitat  characteristics  in  Black  Sulphur  Creek  are  similar 
to  those  observed  in  the  middle  section  of  Piceance  Creek  (Gray  and 
Ward  1978).   Mean  depth  and  width  in  Black  Sulphur  Creek  are  10  and 
3.1  feet,  respectively.   Stream  bottom  substrate  consists  primarily  of 
rubble  and  gravel.   Fish  cover  in  the  stream  is  generally  lacking  except 
for  occasional  pools  and  debris  accumulations.   The  only  aquatic  community 
which  has  been  studied  in  Black  Sulphur  Creek  is  benthic  macroinvertebrates 
Macroinvertebrates  composition  in  Black  Sulphur  Creek  is  similar  to 
Piceance  Creek  with  chironomids  and  mayflies  dominating  both  the  densities 
and  biomass. 

Information  describing  biotic  communities  in  McKee  Gulch,  East  Fawn 
Creek,  and  Fawn  Creek  is  lacking.   All  of  these  are  small  tributaries 
which  exhibit  shallow  depths  during  low  flow  conditions.   No  fish  are 
expected  to  occur  in  these  streams. 

3.7.3.3  Route  2  (Route  Segments  1-2).   Based  on  available  literature, 
there  appears  to  be  no  information  describing  aquatic  biology  resources 

in  West  Fork  Parachute  Creek  on  top  of  the  Roan  Plateau.   Although 
quantative  data  are  not  available,  cutthroat  trout  and  other  fish  species 
reportedly  exist  above  West  Fork  falls  (Jim  Clark,  Colorado  Division  of 
Wildlife,  personal  communication  as  cited  in  Bechtel  Corporation  and 
Ecology  Consultants,  Inc.  1975).   Periphyton  and  benthic  macroinvertebrate 
communities  above  West  Fork  falls  probably  are  similar  to  those  described 
for  a  section  of  the  stream  just  below  the  falls.   Of  34  periphyton  taxa 
identified  from  West  Fork  Parachute  Creek  below  the  falls,  29  were 
diatoms  (Bechtel  Corporation  and  Ecology  Consultants,  Inc.  1975).   The 


3-50 


only  nondiatom  species  which  was  abundant  was  the  filamentous  green 
alga,  Rhizoclonium  hookeri.   Benthic  macroinvertebrates  consisted  mainly 
of  blackfly  larvae  (Family  Simuliidae)  and  baetid  mayflies.   Blackfly 
larvae  were  most  abundant  in  riffles  while  mayflies  were  common  in  both 
riffles  and  pools. 

3.7.3.4  Route  2A  (Route  Segments  1-2-2A-2).   Stream  crossings 
associated  with  Route  2A  are  proposed  for  the  West  Fork  of  Parachute 
Creek  at  mile  5.4  and  Wolf  Creek  between  miles  3  and  5.   A  discussion  of 
aquatic  resources  in  West  Fort  Parachute  Creek  is  presented  previously. 
No  information  is  available  for  Wolf  Creek,  but  it  is  expected  that  no 
fish  occur  in  this  stream. 

3.7.3.5  Route  2B  (Route  Segments  2B-2A-2B-2) .   Stream  crossings 
associated  with  the  Route  2B  pipeline  corridor  are  proposed  at  the 
following  locations:   Clear  Creek  (several  crossings  between  mile  1.5 
and  9),  Wiesse  Creek  (one  crossing,  between  mile  9.2  and  14),  and  West 
Fork  Parachute  Creek  (Mile  22).   A  discussion  of  aquatic  resources  in 
West  Fork  Parachute  Creek  is  presented  in  Section  3.7.3.3.   No  information 
is  available  for  Wiesse  Creek,  but  no  fish  are  likely  to  occur  in  this 
stream. 

Stream  crossings  are  proposed  in  a  section  of  Clear  Creek  situated 
below  the  falls  at  the  canyon  rim.   This  section  of  Clear  Creek  is  a 
small,  steep-gradient  stream  with  a  bottom  consisting  primarily  of 
boulder,  rubble,  and  cobble.   No  fish  are  known  to  occur  in  this  section 
of  Clear  Creek.   Although  mottled  sculpin  (Cottus  bairdi) ,  rainbow  trout 
(Salmo  gairdneri) ,  and  cutthroat  trout  (S .  clarki)  have  been  collected 
in  sections  of  Clear  Creek  about  5  to  10  miles  downstream,  several 
irrigation  diversions  exist  which  limit  any  upstream  movement. 

Thirty-two  macroinvertebrate  taxa  have  been  identified  by  ERT  from 
the  upper  section  of  Clear  Creek.   Based  on  three  surveys  conducted  in 
1981,  the  highest  macroinvertebrate  densities  occurred  in  August  and 
October  with  values  of  104  and  153  organisms/square  foot,  respectively. 
Total  macroinvertebrate  densities  in  June  were  much  lower  with  a  value 
of  12  organisms/square  foot.   The  dominant  taxa  in  August  were  blackflies, 
represented  by  the  genera  Simulium  and  Prosimulium.   Species  composition 
was  different  in  October  when  stoneflies  (Families  Nemouridae  and  Perlidae) 

3-51 


and  caddisflies  (Family  Hydropsychidae)  were  dominant.   During  June 
mayflies  (Families  Baetidae  and  Heptageniidae) ,  aquatic  caterpillars 
(Family  Noctuidae),  and  blackflies  (Simulium)  were  the  most  abundant 
organisms . 

3.7.3.6   Route  2C  (Route  Segments  1-2-2C-2) ■   Aquatic  communities 
affected  along  this  route  would  be  the  same  as  described  for  Route  2, 
except  that  the  disturbance  along  Wet  Fork  would  be  minimized. 

3 . 8   Cultural  Resources 

3.8.1  Regional  Setting 

Little  cultural  resource  work  has  been  conducted  along  any  of  the 
proposed  routes  with  the  exception  of  the  Clear  Creek  Property  areas 
(LaPoint  and  Aivazian  1981).   Documentation  of  resources  outside  of  this 
property  has  been  compiled  mostly  from  small  survey  investigations 
conducted  in  response  to  energy  mineral  development  (Keen  et  al.  1980; 
Black  1981).   Table  3-6  lists  known  cultural  resources  along  the  proposed 
routes.   The  varying  levels  of  survey  intensity  may  be  an  explanation 
for  the  low  number  of  previously  recorded  sites  along  the  routes  in 
contrast  to  the  high  number  of  sites  found  on  the  Clear  Creek  Property 
and  elsewhere  in  the  Piceance  Basin  (Weber  et  al.  1977;  Olson  et  al.  1975) 

No  reliable  measure  of  the  prehistoric  resources  in  the  corridors 

can  be  obtained  without  an  on-ground  inventory.   The  evaluations  of  the 

routes  have  been  based  on  studies  of  settlement  patterns  and  regional 

chronology  elsewhere  in  the  Piceance  Basin  (Hurlbutt  1976;  Jennings  1974; 

Weber  et  al.  1977)  and  on  the  Roan  Plateau  (Grady  1980;  Kane  1973; 

LaPoint  and  Aivazian  1981).   The  known  prehistoric  resources  in  the 

study  area  reveal  diversified  and  extensive  occupation.   From  these 

previous  investigations  in  the  vicinity  of  the  proposed  route,  several 

periods  of  prehistoric  occupation  have  been  established  for  the  area. 

An  Archaic  period  is  suggested  to  begin  perhaps  as  early  as  7000  B.C. 

(Olson  et  al.  1975).   Following  the  Archaic,  at  approximately  A.D.  500, 

a  Fremont  Culture  period  is  proposed,  and  then  a  Ute  occupation  period 

from  about  A.D.  1500  to  A.D.  1800  (Jennings  1974b).   These  cultural 

types  include  several  subsistence  strategies,  including  hunting  and 

gathering,  semi-sedentary  horticulture,  and  horse-based  nomadism.   It 

can  be  concluded  from  studies  conducted  thus  far  that  aboriginal 

3-52 


TABLE  3-6 
KNOWN  CULTURAL  RESOURCES  ALONG  PROPOSED  ROUTES,  1981 


Site 

Recording 

Function 

Nature  of 

NRHP 

Number 

Agency 

or  Type 

Impact 

Recommendation 

All  except 

Route 

2B 

(1,  1A,  2, 

5GF646 

LOPA 

Open  Prehis- 

Indirect 

Likely  to  be 

2A,  & 

2C) 

toric  Camp 

Eligible 

5GF650 

LOPA 

Open  Lithic 

Indirect 

Not 

Eligible 

5GF651 

LOPA 

Open  Lithic 

Indirect 

Likely  to  be 

Eligible 

5GF655 

LOPA 

Historic 

Indirect 

Not 

Eligible 

1F46GF 

LOPA 

Isolated 

Find 

Indirect 

Not 

Eligible 

1F47GF 

LOPA 

Isolated 

Find 

Indirect 

Not 

Eligible 

1F50GF 

LOPA 

Isolated 

Find 

Indirect 

Not 

Eligible 

1F61GF 

LOPA 

Isolated 

Find 

Indirect 

Not 

Eligible 

1F62GF 

LOPA 

Isolated 

Find 

Indirect 

Not 

Eligible 

1F63GF 

LOPA 

Isolated 

Find 

Indirect 

Not 

Eligible 

Route 

1 

5RB1472 

G  &  K 

Isolated 

Find 

Indirect 

Not 

Eligible 

5RB1473 

G  &  K 

Isolated 

Find 

Indirect 

Not 

Eligible 

5RB1474 

G  &  K 

Isolated 

Find 

Direct 

Not 

Eligible 

5RB1475 

G  &  K 

Isolated 

Find 

Indirect 

Not 

Eligible 

5RB1478 

G  &  K 

Isolated 

Find 

Indirect 

Not 

Eligible 

5RB1592 

G  &  K 

Isolated 

Find 

Indirect 

Not 

Eligible 

5RB1609 

G  &  K 

Isolated 

Find 

Indirect 

Not 

Eligible 

Route 

1A 

5RB2168 

M  &  Z 

unrecorded 

unrecorded 

unrecorded 

unrecorded 

unrecorded 

Historic 
Historic 
Historic 
Historic 
Historic 
Historic 

Direct 
Direct 
Direct 
Direct 
Direct 
Direct 

Not 

Eligible 

Route 

2B 

5GF652 

LOPA 

Open  Lithic 

Indirect 

Not 

Eligible 

5GF665 

LOPA 

Historic 

Direct 

Not 

Eligible 

1F616F 

LOPA 

Isolated 

Find 

Indirect 

Not 

Eligible 

G  &  K  -  Gordon  and  Kranzusch,  Inc.   (Keen  et  al.  1980) 
M  &  Z  -  Metcalf  and  Zier  (Black  1981) 


3-53 


exploration  of  the  area  was  continuous  for  many  centuries  up  to  the 
twentieth  century. 

Site  locational  analyses  have  suggested  that  recurrently  used 
prehistoric  camp  sites  tend  to  be  situated  vertically  and  horizontally 
close  to  a  reliable  water  source  in  lowland  areas  such  as  floodplains 
and  finger  ridges  overlooking  drainages.   These  areas  often  provide  easy 
access  to  a  variety  of  local  food  resources  as  well  as  protection  from 
the  elements.   Exposed  ridgetop  locations  along  drainage  divides  far 
from  water  are  often  places  where  small,  disassociated,  one-time  or 
short-term  sites  may  be  found.   These  sites  are  often  specialized  task 
loci  related  to  hunting  or  gathering  work  and  are  peripheral  to  camp 
sites.   Areas  of  steep  slope  are  considered  poor  places  for  prehistoric 
occupation. 

Historic  occupation  and  exploration  began  in  the  1800 's  in  the  form 
of  homesteading  and  cattle  ranching.   The  area  is  now  being  extensively 
developed  for  oil  shale,  natural  gas,  and  oil.   As  indicated  from  the 
established  ranches  in  the  area,  settlements  have  a  strong  tendency  to 
be  on  major  drainages  at  lower  elevations,  areas  not  subject  to  such 
severe  weather  conditions  as  the  ridgetops.   These  areas  also  provide 
permanent  water  sources  and  land  suitable  for  farming. 

3.8.2  Rangely  Pipeline  Routes 

3.8.2.1   Route  A.   A  considerable  amount  of  cultural  resource 
research  has  been  conducted  along  the  Route  A  corridor.   An  abundance 
of  prehistoric  and  historic  sites  are  on  record  for  Rio  Blanco  County 
although  no  sites  have  been  recorded  along  the  portion  of  the  route 
within  Garfield  County  (Appendix  B) .   Documentation  of  these  resources 
has  been  compiled  mostly  from  small  survey  investigations  conducted  in 
response  to  energy  and  mineral  development. 

Prehistoric  utilization  along  the  central  portion  of  the  proposed 
route  has  been  primarily  documented  as  a  result  of  a  LOPA  cultural 
resource  inventory  of  the  Canyon  Pintado  Historic  District.   Located  in 
the  Douglas  Creek  Drainage,  the  district's  southern  boundary  begins  at 
the  confluence  of  East  and  West  Douglas  Creeks  and  includes  approximately 
1  mile  of  either  side  of  the  creek  north  to  Sec.  7,  TIN,  R10W  (Map  8). 
A  total  of  179  prehistoric  and  historic  sites  was  recorded  in  the  district, 

3-54 


and  test  excavations  of  two  sites  were  performed.   Of  the  179  sites, 
31  sites  would  be  affected  by  Route  A. 

Several  additional  surveys  have  been  conducted  along  East  Douglas 
Creek  and  Cathedral  Creek  (Jennings  1974a,  1975;  Jennings  and  Hall  1976; 
Jennings  and  Spitzer  1976;  Wenger  1956;  Gordon  and  Kranzusch  1977),  and 
one  survey  has  been  conducted  in  Soldier  Creek  (Daniels  et  al.  1980). 
Within  these  drainage  areas,  27  sites  have  been  recorded,  of  which  20 
would  be  affected  by  the  construction  of  the  proposed  route. 

The  level  of  intensity  of  archaeological  investigation  has  varied 
substantially  throughout  the  region.   The  greater  number  of  sites  within 
the  district  compared  to  the  low  number  recorded  outside  the  district 
may  be  more  a  reflection  of  the  varying  levels  of  intensity  of  surveys 
in  the  two  areas,  rather  than  necessarily  reflecting  less  intensive 
prehistoric  activity  outside  of  the  Douglas  Creek  mainstem. 

A  general  overview  of  the  cultural  sequence  along  the  Route  A 
corridor  can  be  outlined  as  follows.   The  late  Desert  Archaic  is  the 
first  well  documented  occupation  of  Douglas  Creek.   Radiocarbon  dates 
indicate  that  the  occupation  began  around  4100  B.P.  (Creasman  1981). 
Dated  sites  from  this  period  are  buried  in  the  alluvial  fill  of  Douglas 
Creek  at  depths  as  great  as  4  m.   The  early  inhabitants  followed  a 
generalized  hunting  and  gathering  subsistence  strategy.   Habitation 
sites  recognized  as  Late  Archaic  are  found  as  open  camp  sites  on  the 
floodplain  and  sheltered  camps  along  the  edge  of  the  floodplain 
(Creasman  1981). 

A  later  localized  variant  of  the  Fremont  Culture  may  have  developed 
from  this  Desert  Archaic  Tradition  within  Douglas  Creek.   Fremont  people 
were  semi-sedentary  horticulturalists  who  supplemented  their  subsistence 
through  hunting  and  gathering  activities.  -  Floodplain  campsites  occupied 
earlier  during  the  Archaic  times 'continued  to  be  used  throughout  Fremont 
times.   Rock  shelters  were  also  utilized.   The  development  of  a 
horticultural  subsistence  pattern  in  Douglas  Creek  began  around  1575  B.P. 
and  continued  until  740  B.P.  Canyon  Pintado  was  most  intensively  occupied 
during  this  period.   This  occupation  is  evidenced  by  the  presence  of 
Turner  Gray  (Cisco  variety)  pottery,  dry-laid  masonry  architecture, 
maize  horticulture,  rock  art,  and  certain  projectile  points  (Creasman  1981) 

By  A.D.  1200,  the  Fremont  groups  were  on  the  decline  in  northwestern 
Colorado  and  were  either  replaced  or  joined  by  early  Ute  and  Shoshonean 

3-55 


groups.   Only  limited  evidence  of  this  subsequent  occupation  of  the 
canyon  has  been  recovered.   It  is  presumed  that  these  groups  were  nomadic 
hunters  and  gatherers  and  that  their  presence  persisted  into  historic 
times  until  the  forced  abandonment  of  the  area  by  the  Utes  following  the 
Meeker  massacre  in  1879. 

This  later  occupation  of  the  canyon  is  indicated  by  the  occurrence 
of  Shoshonean  pottery  and  equestrian  rock  art  motifs  which  point  to 
aboriginal  activity  in  the  area  following  Spanish  contact  in  the  American 
Southwest.   The  settlement  pattern  of  these  groups  may  have  deviated 
slightly  from  that  of  the  Late  Archaic  and  Fremont  times  with  campsites 
appearing  on  the  benches  along  the  cliff  walls.   A  bison  hunting  scene 
depicted  at  Dripping  Brow  Cave  suggests  that  bison  became  part  of  the 
economic  base  after  the  introduction  of  the  horse  (Creasman  1981). 

The  first  record  of  Euro-American  presence  in  the  area  was  the 
Dominguez-Escalante  expedition   of  1776.   They  described  a  number  of 
pictographs  and  petroglyphs  and  named  the  canyon  "Canyon  Pintado",  or 
painted  canyon. 

Homesteading  in  the  area  began  in  the  late  1880' s  and  early  1900 's 
upon  the  Ute  removal.   Most  of  the  homesteads  were  located  on  floodplains 
of  major  drainages  where  water  was  plentiful,  ground  was  easily  cleared 
for  farming,  and  transportation  to  nearby  towns  was  possible  along  the 
drainage  corridor  (Gordon  and  Kranzusch  1979).   Sheep  and  cattle 
operations  were  established  in  the  1800s,  fomenting  conflicts  between 
the  two  which  erupted  into  range  wars.   Fossil  fuel  and  oil  shale 
potential  in  the  area  was  recognized  in  the  early  twentieth  century, 
precipitating  present-day  energy  development. 

3.8.2.2  Route  A  With  Deviation.   Conditions  would  be  similar  to 
those  described  for  Route  A. 

3.8.2.3  Route  B.   Far  less  cultural  resource  work  has  been 
conducted  along  the  Route  B  pipeline  corridor.    According  to  the  L0PA 
records,  only  one  survey  has  been  conducted  for  cultural  resources  along 
Route  B.   This  survey  was  conducted  in  1975  by  LOPA  for  a  small 
gas-gathering  pipeline  near  the  mouth  of  Douglas  Creek  (Appendix  B) . 
Two  rock  shelters  and  a  Fremont  rock  art  site  were  recorded  (Jennings 


3-56 


and  Ritchie  1975).   Subsequent  surveillance  during  the  construction  of 
the  pipeline  revealed  an  Archaic  type  McKean-Pinto  style  projectile 
point  and  a  radiocarbon  date  of  3510  ±150  B.P.  (1560  B.C.)  in  the  same 
cultural  levels  (Conners  and  Alexander  n.d.). 

On  the  east  side  of  the  Cathedral  Bluffs,  two  archaeological  surveys 
were  conducted  in  the  general  vicinity  of  the  proposed  route.   One 
survey,  conducted  in  the  oil  shale  C-a  tract  by  Dr.  Alan  Olson  in  1975 
and  1976,  revealed  196  sites.   The  second  survey,  conducted  for  a  pipeline 
R-O-W  in  1978  (Bridge  et  al.),  revealed  two  sites.   These  sites  include 
evidences  of  Archaic,  Fremont,  and  Ute  affiliations  with  material 
inventories  including  groundstone,  pottery,  a  wide  range  of  lithic  stone 
tools,  and  wickiup  structures. 

The  known  prehistoric  resources  of  the  Piceance  Basin  reveal 
diversified  and  extensive  occupation.   From  these  earlier  investigations 
in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  the  proposed  route,  several  periods  of 
prehistoric  occupation  have  been  established  for  the  area.   An  Archaic 
period  is  suggested  by  Olsen  beginning  perhaps  as  early  as  7000  B.C. 
(Olsen  et  al.  1975).   Following  the  Archaic  at  approximately  A.D.  500,  a 
Fremont  Culture  Period  is  proposed,  followed  by  a  Ute  occupation  period 
from  about  A.D.  1500  to  A.D.  1800  (Jennings  1974b).   These  cultural 
types  span  several  occupational  groups,  including  hunting  and  gathering 
peoples,  semi-sedentary  horticulturalists ,  and  nomadic  peoples.   Studies 
conducted  thus  far  indicate  that  aboriginal  exploration  of  the  area  was 
continuous  for  many  centuries  up  to  and  including  the  twentieth  century. 

Historic  occupation  and  exploration  began  in  the  1800s  in  the  form 
of  homesteading  and  cattle  ranching.   Currently,  the  area  is  being 
extensively  developed  for  oil  shale,  natural  gas,  and  petroleum. 

3.8.3   La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes 

3.8.3.1   Route  1  (Route  Segment  1  Only) .   Two  cultural  resource 
surveys  have  been  conducted  along  this  route  (see  Map  10) .   The  segment 
from  mile  0  to  mile  5  is  within  the  Clear  Creek  study  area  inventoried 
by  LOPA  for  Chevron  in  1980  (LaPoint  and  Aivazian  1981).   The  majority 
of  archaeological  sites  were  located  along  the  drainages  and  lower 
ridges  overlooking  No  Name,  East  and  West  Willow,  and  Mud  Springs  Creeks. 
This  segment,  common  to  all  proposed  routes  except  2B,  crosses  East  and 

3-57 


West  Willow  and  No  Name  Creeks  where  archaeological  sites  could  be 
located.   These  sites  are  located  between  miles  3  to  4  and  5  to  6  of 
Route  1. 

From  mile  5   to  mile  9  the  route  crosses  one  drainage  divide,  drops 
into  a  tributary  drainage  to  West  Hunter  Creek,  then  climbs  to  another 
ridgetop.   This  segment  is  considered  to  have  a  good  potential  for 
cultural  resources  because  it  is  close  to  water  and  in  a  protected 
location. 

From  mile  9  to  mile  18  the  route  follows  the  divide  of  an 
interfluvial  ridge  flanked  by  West  Hunter  Creek  to  the  east  and  East 
Fawn  Creek  to  the  west.   A  cultural  resource  survey  conducted  by 
Keen  et  al.  (1980)  revealed  seven  isolated  finds  of  prehistoric  origin 
along  this  ridgetop;  none  of  these  were  deemed  eligible  for  nomination 
to  the  National  Register  of  Historic  Places  (NRHP) .   The  ridgetop  appears 
to  be  an  area  where  single  use  localities  rather  than  open  prehistoric 
camp  sites  occur.   Site  density  is  believed  to  be  low. 

As  the  route  drops  off  the  ridge  it  enters  an  area  from  miles  18  to 
25  known  to  be  ideal  for  site  locations.   High  site  densities  have  been 
recorded  along  Piceance  Creek  (Weber  et  al.  1977;  Olson  et  al.  1975). 
The  area  surrounding  the  terminus  of  Route  1  (miles  25  to  26)  has  been 
extensively  surveyed  in  the  past  by  a  number  of  archaeologists  and  no 
cultural  resources  have  been  found  along  this  portion  of  the  route. 

3.8.3.2   Route  1A  (Route  Segments  1-1A-1).   The  majority  of  the 
route  follows  the  Fawn  Creek  drainage  to  the  north  of  Piceance  Creek, 
where  it  joins  Route  1  at  mile  18.   The  first  segment  of  the  route 
(miles  0-5)  has  been  discussed  under  pipeline  Route  1.   Only  one  small 
archaeological  survey  in  Section  11,  T.3S.,  R  98W.  has  been  conducted 
along  the  remainder  of  this  route  (Black  1981).   One  historic  water 
diversion  site  was  recorded,  5RB2168,  and  is  believed  to  be  related  to 
the  Butner  Homestead  just  north  of  the  site.   The  site  is  not  considered 
eligible  for  nomination  to  the  NRHP.   Five  other  unrecorded  historic 
sites  along  Fawn  Creek  are  shown  on  USGS  maps. 

The  route  passes  through  drainages  and  lower  ridges  considered  to 
be  ideal  locations  for  prehistoric  occupation.   These  areas  provide 
protection,  water,  and  easy  access  to  a  variety  of  exploitable  resources. 


3-58 


Alluvial  fill  within  the  drainages  and  floodplains  may  mask  the  presence 
of  buried  cultural  resources.   Except  for  a  small  segment  of  the  route 
between  miles  0  and  1,  the  entire  route  is  expected  to  yield  high  site 
densities . 

3.8.3.3  Route  2  (Route  Segments  1-2) .  No  cultural  resource  surveys 
have  been  conducted  along  this  route  other  than  the  Clear  Creek  survey 
along  miles  1  to  5 .  As  a  result,  site  density,  settlement  pattern,  and 
length  and  nature  of  occupation  remain  unknown.  Judging  from  work 
conducted  by  LOPA  in  adjacent  areas  of  Parachute  and  Clear  Creeks,  few 
occupation  sites  would  be  expected  to  occur  along  the  ridgetop  segments 
of  this  route. 

The  route  generally  follows  the  Ridge  Road  along  the  drainage 
divide  between  Piceance  Creek  on  the  north  and  Clear  and  Parachute 
Creeks  on  the  south.   This  ridgetop  is  exposed  to  severe  weather  and  is 
generally  far  from  water.   Between  miles  8  and  13  the  route  drops  into 
the  Wet  Fork  drainage  which  in  turn  empties  into  the  West  Fork  of 
Parachute  Creek.   Similar  topographic  situations  on  Chevron's  Parachute 
property  revealed  a  high  incidence  of  open  camp  sites  along  such  drainages, 
with  a  potential  for  deep  cultural  deposits  due  to  the  alluvial  nature 
of  these  canyons . 

3.8.3.4  Route  2A  (Route  Segments  1-2-2A-2).   The  segment  of 
Route  2A  along  Wolf  Creek  is  located  in  an  area  considered  conducive  to 
prehistoric  occupation.   The  area  is  well  watered,  being  a  tributary  to 
a  major  creek  in  the  area.   Deep  alluvium,  which  may  have  buried  sites, 
is  also  present.   Sites  found  in  this  area  would  most  probably  be  base 
camps  that  were  reused  season  after  season;  these  could  contain  potentially 
great  cultural  depth.   This  type  of  site  is  considered  eligible  for 
nomination  to  the  NRHP.   The  pipeline  also  crosses  West  Fork  Parachute 
Creek.   The  confluence  of  West  Fork  Creek  with  Wolf  Creek  is  an  area 
ideal  for  site  locations,  as  well  as  the  entire  West  Fork  of  the  Parachute 
Creek  floodplain. 

3.8.3.5  Route  2B  (Route  Segments  2B-2A-2B-2) .   Seven  miles  of  this 
route  have  been  surveyed  for  cultural  resources  by  LOPA  during  the 


3-59 


reconnaissance  for  the  Clear  Creek  Properties.   Miles  1  through  7  revealed 
one  prehistoric  site  5GF652  and  one  historic  site,  5GF665,  neither 
considered  eligible  for  the  NRHP.   From  miles  7  to  11  the  route  remains 
in  the  Clear  Creek  Canyon,  then  climbs  out  at  Buck  Gulch  and  continues 
north  along  Wiesse  Creek.   This  4-mile  segment  will  probably  reveal  a 
low  site  density,  based  on  the  results  of  the  Clear  Creek  Canyon  survey. 
From  mile  11  to  14,  however,  the  route  enters  a  well-watered  valley  that 
affords  protection  and  easy  access  to  a  variety  of  resources.   This  area 
is  considered  ideal  for  prehistoric  and  historic  site  location.   One 
possible  homestead  is  located  along  this  portion  of  the  route  at  mile  14. 

The  next  leg  of  the  pipeline  route,  between  mile  14  and  mile  21, 
follows  the  ridgetop  divide  between  Parachute  and  Clear  Creeks.  The 
area  is  exposed  with  shallow  soils  and  is  far  from  water.  It  is  not 
considered  ideal  for  long  term  prehistoric  occupation.  Site  density, 
based  on  LOPA  experience  just  south  of  the  route  on  the  Parachute 
properties,  would  be  very  low  and  consist  of  small,  single-use  localities 
not  generally  considered  for  long-term  prehistoric  site  location. 

3.8.3.6   Route  2C  (Route  Segments  1-2-2C-2) .   Cultural  Resources 
for  Route  2C  are  the  same  as  for  Route  2  except  for  the  portion  of  the 
route  that  follows  Ridge  Road  rather  than  Wet  Fork.   Less  potential  for 
finding  open  campsites  or  deep  cultural  deposits  exists  along  Route  2C. 

3.9  Visual  Resources 

3.9.1  Regional  Setting 

The  proposed  pipeline  corridors  are  characterized  by  rugged,  arid 
topography  with  steep,  eroded  cliffs  and  gently  sloping  to  rolling 
plateaus.   Vegetation  consists  of  occasional  stands  of  aspen  and  Douglas 
fir,  sagebrush,  mixed  shrub  communities,  and  mixtures  of  grasses  and 
forbs.   Water  is  generally  associated  with  deep  canyons  exhibiting  flat 
canyon  floors.   Water  is  not  abundant  on  the  plateaus  or  in  the  washes. 

Significant  natural  visual  features  in  the  region  include  the  Roan 
Plateau,  which  defines  the  southern  boundary  of  the  Piceance  Basin  at  an 
average  elevation  of  8,400  ft;  the  750,000  ac  Piceance  Basin  covering 
about  1,600  sq  mi;  the  Roan  Cliffs  at  the  southern  edge  of  the  Roan 
Plateau;  Colorado  River;  Grand  Hogback  north  of  Rifle;  and  Cathedral 

3-60 


Bluffs  northeast  of  Douglas  Pass.   Significant  man-made  visual  features 
in  the  region  include  the  communities  of  DeBeque,  Parachute,  and  Battlement 
Mesa;  developments  at  the  Cathedral  Bluffs  Oil  Shale  Project  (Tract  C-b) , 
Union  Oil  Project,  Colony  Project,  and  Occidental  Logan  Wash  Project; 
and  Interstate  70. 

The  BLM  has  implemented  a  visual  inventory  and  evaluation  process 
to  provide  for  a  systematic  interdisciplinary  approach  to  the  management 
of  visual  values  on  public  lands.   The  VRM  system  inventories   existing 
landscape  character  and  assigns  visual  management  classifications  based 
upon  the  combination  of  visual  qualities,  visual  sensitivities  of  viewers, 
and  visual  distances  in  the  landscape  (see  Methods  Section).   The  affected 
environment  is  identified  as  the  area  which  might  potentially  be  influenced 
by  the  proposed  syncrude  pipeline  routes  and/or  alternatives. 

The  environment's  visual  characteristics,  qualities,  and  management 
classes  were  defined  by  the  BLM,  Craig  District  Office  and  Grand  Junction 
District  Office  in  Colorado.   Detailed  descriptions  of  the  visual 
environment  can  be  found  on  file  in  these  offices. 

3.9.2  Rangely  Pipeline  Routes 

The  BLM  has  established  five  VRM  classifications  for  nation-wide 
application  to  provide  guidance  in  ascertaining  the  degree  of  modification 
acceptable  by  the  landscape  affected  by  proposed  management  activities 
(Table  3-7).   Of  the  five  national  classes,  three  exist  in  the  Rangely 
study  area.   These  include:  (1)  Class  II,  in  the  White  River  area  near 
Rangely  and  in  the  Cathedral  Mountain  area  above  Soldier  Creek;  (2) 
Class  III,  along  the  majority  of  the  Cathedral  Bluffs,  upper  Cathedral 
Creek,  the  Big  Ridge  area,  and  the  area  just  southwest  of  Rangely;  and 
(3)  Class  IV,  along  Skinner  Ridge,  lower  Cathedral  Creek,  Douglas  Creek 
to  Rangely,  and  the  remaining  area  north  of  Big  Ridge  to  Rangely.   The 
accompanying  Environmental  Constraints  Map,  Map  8  demonstrates  VRM 
classes  in  the  pipeline  corridor. 

The  most  critical  visual  environment  is  located  on  the  Class  II 
area  along  the  White  River,  and  at  the  southern  end  of  the  Cathedral 
Bluffs.   The  most  critical  viewer  locations  are  along  Colorado  Route  139 
where  the  proposed  syncrude  pipeline  would  be  seen  in  the  foreground 
view.   Other  critical  areas  occur  along  the  Cathedral  Bluffs  ridge  road, 
commonly  used  by  hunters  and  campers. 

3-61 


TABLE  3-7 
VISUAL  RESOURCE  MANAGEMENT  CLASSES 


Class  I.   This  class  provides  primarily  for  natural  ecological  changes;  however, 
it  does  not  preclude  very  limited  management  activity.   Any  contrast 
created  within  the  characteristic  environment  must  not  attract  attention. 
It  is  applied  to  wilderness  areas,  some  natural  areas,  wild  portions  of  the 
wild  and  scenic  rivers,  and  other  similar  situations  where  management 
activities  are  to  be  restricted. 

Areas  of  Critical  Environmental  Concern  for  Scenic  Values.   The  ACEC 

for  scenic  values  are  lands  of  high  scenic  value  of  relative  scarcity.   For 
this  reason,  priority  identification  must  be  made  for  presentation  in  the 
management  framework  process.   Conformance  with  VRM  Class  II  objectives 
constitutes  interim  management. 

Class  II.  1    Changes  in  any  of  the  basic  elements  (form,  line,  color,  texture) 

caused  by  a  management  activity  should  not  be  evident  in  the  characteristic 
landscape.   A  contrast  may  be  seen  but  should  not  attract  attention. 

Class  III.  *   Contrasts  to  the  basic  elements  (form,  line,  color,  texture) 
caused  by  a  management  activity  may  be  evident  and  begin  to  attract 
attention  in  the  characteristic  landscape.   However,  the  changes  should 
remain  subordinate  to  the  existing  characteristic  landscape. 

Class  IV.  Contrasts  may  attract  attention  and  be  a  dominant  feature  of  the 
landscape  in  terms  of  scale;  however,  the  change  should  repeat  the  basic 
elements  (form,  line,  color,  texture)  inherent  in  the  characteristic 
landscape. 

Class  V.   Change  is  needed  or  change  may  add  acceptable  visual  variety  to  an 
area.   This  class  applies  to  areas  where  the  naturalistic  character  has 
been  disturbed  to  a  point  where  rehabilitation  is  needed  to  bring  it  back 
into  character  with  the  surrounding  landscape.   This  class  would  apply  to 
areas  identified  in  the  scenic  evaluation  where  the  quality  class  has  been 
reduced  because  of  unacceptable  cultural  modification.   The  contrast  is 
inharmonious  with  the  characteristic  landscape.   It  may  also  be  applied  to 
areas  that  have  the  potential  for  enhancement,  i.e.,  add  acceptable  visual 
variety  to  an  area/site.   It  should  be  considered  an  interim  or  short-term 
classification  until  one  of  the  other  VRM  class  objectives  can  be  reached 
through  rehabilitation  or  enhancement.   The  desired  visual  resource 
management  class  should  be  identified. 

Structures  located  in  the  foreground  distance  zone  (0-1/2  mile)  often  create 
a  contrast  that  exceed  the  VRM  class,  even  when  designed  to  harmonize  and  blend 
with  the  characteristic  landscape.   This  may  be  especially  true  when  a 
distinctive  architectural  motif  or  style  is  designed.   Approval  by  the  District 
Manager  is  required  on  a  case-by-case  basis  to  determine  whether  the 
structure(s)  meet  the  acceptable  VRM  class  standards,  and,  if  not,  whether 
they  add  acceptable  visual  variety  to  the  landscape. 


3-62 


3.9.3  La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes 

3.9.3.1   Route  1  (Route  Segment  1  Only) .    Significant  natural 
features  along  this  corridor  include  the  major  ridge  west  of  Hunter 
Creek  and  Piceance  Creek.   Significant  man-made  visual  features  include 
jeep  roads  and  pack  trails  on  the  ridges  and  the  paved  Piceance  Creek 
road.   The  Route  1  corridor  extends  through  two  distinct  landscape 
character  types--the  Mountain  Brush  Highlands  and  the  Piceance  Creek 
Floodplain. 

Mountain  brush  highlands  landform  is  characterized  by  steep  to 
rolling  slopes  with  frequent  occurrences  of  small  rocky  outcrops.   Lines 
are  typically  curvilinear.   Colors  range  from  gray  to  yellow,  tan,  and 
brown  where  soil  or  rock  is  exposed;  textures  are  insignificant. 
Vegetation  consists  primarily  of  sagebrush  on  south  slopes  and  mountain 
brush  on  north  slopes,  with  stands  of  pinyon  pine  and  juniper  occurring 
frequently  at  higher  elevations.   Lines  are  infrequent,  occurring 
primarily  between  vegetation  types.   Colors  range  from  mottled  gray  to 
light  green,  dark  green,  and  yellow,  depending  upon  season  and  available 
ground  moisture.   Textures  are  typically  moderately  coarse  to  coarse; 
forms  are  insignificant.   Jeep  roads  and  pack  trails  delineate  horizontal 
and  curvilinear  lines  in  the  landscape.   Infrequent  and  scattered 
structures  delineate  strong  vertical  lines  and  block  forms.   Colors  in 
the  tan  to  brown  range  create  contrast  with  the  surrounding  landscape, 
except  in  areas  where  soil  or  rock  is  exposed;  forms  and  textures  are 
insignificant.   Water  is  not  a  significant  visual  element  in  this  area. 

The  Piceance  Creek  floodplain  landform  is  typically  flat  to  gently 
sloping;  lines  are  curvilinear  or  straight.   Colors  range  from  tan  to 
brown  where  the  landform  material  is  exposed;  textures  are  insignificant. 
The  dominant  vegetation  on  the  floodplain  consists  of  grasses  in  small 
pastures,  with  areas  of  sagebrush.   The  infrequent  riparian  vegetation 
creates  highly  contrasting  conical  forms  and  green  colors.   The  dominant 
forms  are  rounded.   Colors  range  from  grays  to  greens,  yellows  and 
browns,  depending  upon  the  season.   Breaks  between  vegetation  types 
create  some  vertical  and  horizontal  lines;  textures  are  insignificant. 
The  floodplain  is  characteristically  dominated  by  the  strong  lines  of 
the  Piceance  Creek  Road,  primitive  roads,  and  fencelines.   Colors  are 
insignificant,  with  the  exception  of  the  gray-black  asphalt  of  the  major 

3-63 


roadway.   The  occasional  farmhouses  or  outbuildings  create  blocky  forms 
in  the  landscape,  and  strong  vertical  and  diagonal  lines.   Color  and 
texture  are  insignificant.   Flowing  water  is  present,  but  does  not 
dominate  the  landscape,  creating  mild  curvilinear  lines  which  are 
subordinate  to  those  of  the  major  roadway  and  fencelines .   Forms, 
colors,  and  textures  associated  with  water  are  insignificant. 

Cultural  modifications  are  few  within  the  Route  1  corridor,  with 
the  majority  occurring  in  the  floodplain  area.   Moderate  to  high  levels 
of  contrast  are  caused  by  roads,  fencelines,  farm  buildings,  and  related 
structures.   Low  to  moderate  levels  of  contrast  are  caused  by  roads, 
pack  trails,  and  infrequent  stock-watering  structures  in  the  higher 
elevations . 

Based  upon  the  estimations  of  scenery  quality,  viewer  sensitivity, 
and  distance  zones,  the  BLM  has  concluded  that  three  Visual  Resource 
Management  Classes  exist  in  the  Route  1  corridor  (see  Map  11).   These 
include:  (1)  Class  II  (1  mile),  within  the  Piceance  Creek  floodplain 
area;  (2)  Class  III  (1  mile),  in  the  plateau  area  surrounding  the 
destination  point  with  the  La  Sal  Pipeline;  and  (3)  Class  IV  (24  miles), 
in  the  remainder  of  the  corridor.   The  Class  II  area  consists  of  Class  B 
Scenery,  High  Viewer  Sensitivity,  and  the  Foreground/  Middleground 
Distance  Zone.   The  Class  III  area  consists  of  Class  B  Scenery,  High 
Viewer  Sensitivity,  and  the  Background  Distance  Zone.   The  Class  IV  area 
consists  of  Class  B  Scenery,  Low  Viewer  Sensitivity,  and  the  Seldom  Seen 
Distance  Zone. 

3.9.3.2   Route  1A  (Route  Segments  1-1A-1).   Significant  natural 
visual  features  include  the  Black  Sulphur  and  Piceance  Creeks. 
Significant  man-made  visual  features  include  the  jeep  and  pack  trails  on 
the  ridges;  the  Piceance  Creek  Road;  and  the  agricultural  developments 
in  the  Piceance  Creek  floodplain.   The  Route  1A  corridor  passes  through 
two  distinct  landscape  character  types:   the  Mountain  Brush  Highlands; 
and  the  Valley  Bottom  type  of  Fawn  Creek  and  the  Piceance  Creek  floodplain 
described  previously.   Cultural  modifications  are  infrequent  along  the 
Route  1A  corridor,  the  majority  occurring  in  the  Piceance  Creek  floodplain 
and  Fawn  Creek  valley  floor.   Moderate  to  high  levels  of  contrast  are 
caused  by  roads,  fencelines,  farm  buildings,  and  related  structures  in 
these  areas.   Low  to  moderate  levels  of  contrast  are  caused  by  roads  and 

3-64 


pack  trails  along  the  ridgelines  and  drainages  in  the  remainder  of  the 
areas  at  higher  elevations.   Based  upon  the  estimations  of  scenery 
quality,  viewer  sensitivity,  and  distance  zones,  the  BLM  has  determined 
that  three  Visual  Resource  Management  Classes  exist  in  the  Route  1A 
corridor.   These  include:   (1)  Class  II  (1  mile),  within  the  Piceance 
Creek  valley  floor;   (2)  Class  III  (9  miles),  within  the  Fawn  Creek 
drainage;  and   (3)  Class  IV  (8  miles),  in  the  upper  elevations. 

The  Class  II  area  consists  of  Class  B  Scenery,  High  Viewer 
Sensitivity,  and  the  Foreground/Middleground  Distance  Zone.   The  Class 
III  area  consists  of  Class  B  Scenery,  Medium  Viewer  Sensitivity,  and 
Foreground/Middleground  Distance  Zone.   The  Class  IV  area  consists  of 
Class  B  Scenery,  Low  Viewer  Sensitivity,  and  the  Seldom  Seen  Distance 
Zone. 

3.9.3.3  Route  2  (Route  Segments  1-2).   The  Route  2  corridor  extends 
along  the  Roan  Plateau  ridge  from  its  origin  at  Route  1  to  the  La  Sal 
Pipeline  destination.   This  area  displays  the  Mountain  Brush  Highland 
landscape  character  type  described  previously.   Based  upon  the  estimations 
of  scenery  quality,  viewer  sensitivity,  and  distance  zones,  BLM  has 
concluded  that  two  Visual  Resource  Management  Classes  exist  in  the 
Route  2  corridor.   These  include  about  6  miles  of  Class  II  in  the  Davis 
Point  area,  away  from  the  centerline  of  the  pipeline  (insignificant 
area);  and  about  19  miles  of  Class  IV,  for  the  remainder  of  the  corridor 
and  all  of  the  centerline. 

The  Class  II  area  consists  of  Class  A  Scenery,  Medium  Viewer 
Sensitivity,  and  the  Background  Distance  Zone.   The  Class  IV  area  consists 
of  Class  B  Scenery,  Low  Viewer  Sensitivity  and  the  Seldom  Seen  Distance 
Zone. 

3.9.3.4  Route  2A  (Route  Segments  1-2-2A-2) .   No  significant  natural 
visual  features  exist  within  the  Route  2A  corridor.   Significant  man-made 
visual  features  include  the  jeep  road  extending  down  Wolf  Creek.   The 
Route  2A  corridor  exists  within  the  Mountain  Brush  Highland  character 
type.   The  jeep  road  following  Hunter  Creek  delineates  curvilinear  lines 
in  the  landscape.  Colors  range  from  tan  to  gold  and  brown  within  the 
roadway  and  in  areas  disturbed  by  cuts  and  fills.   Forms  and  textures 
are  insignificant. 

3-65 


Moderate  to  high  levels  of  contrast  are  caused  by  the  jeep  trail 
near  the  centerline  of  the  corridor.   Pack  trails  and  other  man-made 
visual  features  are  not  significant  visual  elements  in  this  landscape. 
Based  upon  the  estimations  of  scenery  quality,  viewer  sensitivity,  and 
distance  zones,  the  BLM  has  determined  that  one  Visual  Resource 
Management  Class  exists  in  the  corridor.   The  Class  IV  designation  is 
based  upon  Class  B  Scenery,  Low  Viewer  Sensitivity,  and  the  Seldom  Seen 
Distance  Zone. 

3.9.3.5   Route  2B  (Route  Segments  2B-2A-2B-2).   Significant  natural 
visual  features  on  Route  2B  include  the  Roan  Cliffs  along  Clear  Creek 
and  the  accompanying  riparian  habitat,  the  Buck  Gulch  cliffs,  and 
Jackrabbit  Ridge.   Significant  man-made  visual  features  include  the 
materials  storage  flats  on  the  floor  of  Clear  Creek  Canyon  and  the  jeep 
roads  and  pack  trails  along  the  canyon  floor  and  ridges.   The  Route  2B 
corridor  extends  through  two  types  of  landscape  character.   These  include 
the  Mountain  Brush  Highlands  (described  previously)  and  the  Canyon 
Cliffs  and  Floor. 

The  Canyon  Cliffs  and  Floor  Type  is  characterized  by  cliffs,  steep 
talus  slopes,  and  canyon  floor  which  create  distinct  vertical,  diagonal, 
and  horizontal  lines  in  the  corresponding  segments  of  the  Route  2B 
corridor.   Colors  in  the  rich  yellow,  gold,  tan,  brown,  and  black  spectrum 
form  somewhat  less  distinct  horizontal  and  diagonal  lines  across  cliff 
walls  and  along  the  edges  between  cliff  and  talus.   Textures  range  from 
coarse  to  extremely  fine,  depending  on  the  distance  from  the  observer, 
the  angle  of  the  sun  in  relation  to  the  observer,  and  relative  amount  of 
polish  caused  by  wind  and  water.   Forms  are  distinctly  pyramidal  and 
planar.    Vegetation  is  extremely  sparse  along  the  cliffs.   However,  the 
occasional  aspen  and  conifers  provide  highly  contrasting  yellows,  light 
greens,  and  dark  greens.   Shrubs  and  grasses,  grey-green  and  tan  in 
color,  may  be  found  in  scattered  clumps  on  the  talus  slopes.   Riparian 
vegetation  on  the  canyon  floor  creates  highly  contrasting  forms,  colors, 
and  textures  in  this  typically  arid  landscape.   Rich  yellows,  greens, 
oranges,  and  reds  give  this  area  significant  visual  character.   Forms 
are  strongly  spherical  and  conical.   Textures  range  from  coarse  to 
extremely  fine,  depending  on  the  season.   Lines  are  not  significant. 


3-66 


I 


Roads,  stock  trails,  stock  tanks  and  related  structures,  and 
materials  and  equipment  storage  flats  exist  on  the  canyon  floor.   Forms 
are  typically  planar  and  rectilinear.   Lines  and  textures  are 
insignificant.   Diverse  colors  related  to  equipment  and  materials  storage 
flats  may  be  significant  and  dominant  in  contrast  to   the  surrounding 
landscape  within  the  corridor. 

Clear  Creek,  with  its  variety  of  subtle  flows,  pools,  and  rapids, 
creates  significant  visual  variety  in  the  corridor.   Several  of  the 
Clear  Creek  tributaries  located  within  the  corridor  contribute  to  the 
scenery  through  their  visually  interesting  waterfalls  and  flow 
characteristics . 

Cultural  modifications  are  few  within  the  canyon  cliffs  and  floor 
area  of  the  Route  2B  corridor.   Low  levels  of  contrast  result  from 
roads,  stock  trails,  stock  tanks,  and  related  structures  in  the  area. 
Moderate  to  high  contrasts  result  from  roads,  parking  areas,  and  storage 
areas  on  the  talus  slopes  and  lower  areas. 

Based  upon  the  estimation  of  scenery  quality,  viewer  sensitivity, 
and  distance  zones,  ERT  has  concluded  (with  concurrence  from  the  BLM/ 
Grand  Junction  District)  that  one  Visual  Resource  Management  Class 
exists  in  the  cliff  and  canyon  floor  area  of  the  corridor.   The  Class  II 
area  (11  miles  of  the  corridor)  consists  of  Class  A  Scenery,  Medium 
Viewer  Sensitivity,  and  the  Foreground/Middleground  and  Background 
Distance  Zones.   Remaining  portions  of  the  Route  2B  corridor  exist 
within  the  Visual  Resource  Management  Class  IV  area.   The  Class  IV  area 
(12  miles  of  the  corridor),  consists  of  Class  B  Scenery,  Low  Viewer 
Sensitivity,  and  the  Seldom  Seen  Distance  Zone. 

3.9.3.6   Route  2C  (Route  Segments  1-2-2C-2).    Visual  Resource 
characteristics  for  Route  2C  are  the  same  as  those  for  Route  2. 

3 . 10   Land  Use  and  Transportation 

3.10.1   Regional  Setting 

Grazing  by  livestock  and  wildlife  is  the  primary  land  use  within 
the  areas  traversed  by  all  of  the  alternative  synfuel  pipeline  routes. 
Private  ranching  operations  have  evolved  around  the  use  of  public  lands 
and  intermingled  private  and  state  lands.   In  many  cases  ranchers  are 

3-67 


very  dependent  on  BLM  land  because  of  the  small  size  or  seasonal  use 
constraints  on  their  own  properties.   Hay  is  typically  produced  on 
private  land  to  feed  livestock  during  the  winter. 

The  earliest  that  grazing  is  allowed  on  BLM  land  in  spring  is 
March  1,  but  it  can  be  as  late  as  June  1  depending  on  elevation 
(BLM  1978  and  1980).   When  available  forage  is  depleted,  grazing  ceases 
and  cattle  or  sheep  are  moved  to  higher  elevation  rangeland.   Permit 
grazing  in  the  study  area  is  done  primarily  by  cattle  with  a  few  sheep 
allotments.   Range  suitability  is  a  major  problem  in  the  area  because 
livestock  distribution  is  often  severely  hampered  by  steep  rugged  terrain 
and  by  poor  availability  of  water  supplies. 

Grazing  on  public  lands  is  managed  by  the  BLM  through  a  series  of 
Allotment  Management  Plans  (AMP's).   An  AMP  is  an  agreement  between  the 
agency  and  ranchers  operating  in  a  specific  geographic  area,  an  allotment, 
which  describes  (1)  the  manner  in  which  grazing  activity  will  be  conducted, 
(2)  the  extent  of  use,  (3)  what  range  improvements  will  be  installed  and 
how  they  will  be  managed,  and  (4)  approved  levels  of  forage  use.   Vegetation 
allocations  are  described  in  Animal  Unit  Months  (AUM's),  which  is  defined 
as  the  amount  of  forage  required  to  support  one  cow  and  calf  for  one 
month.   The  number  of  AUM's  available  in  an  area  depends  on  many  variables, 
such  as  climate,  soil,  and  past  land  use  which  influence  current  vegetation 
conditions . 

Backcountry  roads  are  the  principal  transporation  routes  crossed  by 
all  the  proposed  pipeline  routes,  except  where  noted.   Most  of  these 
roads  are  single-lane,  low-use  facilities  with  only  occasional  grading 
and  seldom  with  a  gravel  surface.   During  periods  of  rain  or  snow  surfaces 
can  become  impassable  to  everything  but  four-wheel  drive  vehicles. 
Portions  passing  through  large  tracts  of  private  land  are  often  closed 
to  public  entry.   Ranchers  and  mineral  exploration  crews  are  the  principal 
year-round  users  of  these  roads,  but  hunters  use  them  extensively  in  the 
fall  months. 

Recreational  resources  in  the  region  include  hunting  and  fishing. 
Big  game  species  include  mule  deer  and  elk;  huntable  populations  also 
exist  for  small  game  and  upland  game  birds.   The  greatest,  and  probably 
only  important,  recreational  use  in  the  study  area  is  big  game  hunting 
during  the  fall.   The  Piceance  Basin  contains  one  of  the  largest  mule 
deer  herds  in  the  West  in  addition  to  large  numbers  of  elk.   Hunting  for 

3-68 


these  animals  draws  recreationists  from  all  over  the  country  and  is  an 
important  economic  benefit  to  the  area. 

The  Bluff  Road  provides  access  to  the  Cathedral  Bluffs  where  hikers, 
campers,  and  sight-seers  may  view  wildlife  species  and  geologic  formations. 
Heavy  vehicular  use  of  dirt  roads  along  Douglas  Creek  may  preclude  use 
of  the  study  corridor  by  hunters  and  sight-seers  because  of  high  noise 
and  dust  levels.   Fishing  pressure  along  Douglas  Creek  and  its  tributaries 
is  probably  light  (BLM  1980)  because  the  smaller  trout  streams  do  not 
contain  populations  large  enough  to  sustain  much  fishing  pressure. 
Cutthroat  trout  occur  in  Douglas  Creek  and  various  tributaries. 

3.10.2  Rangely  Pipeline  Routes 

3.10.2.1  Route  A.   This  proposed  pipeline  route  to  Rangely  crosses 
primarily  public  and  private  lands  leased  for  oil  and  gas  drilling  or  in 
agricultural  production.   Farming  is  limited  to  primarily  forage  production 
for  livestock.   Farms  and  ranches  in  the  region  have  generally  become 
fewer  and  larger  and  are  present  along  valleys  where  ground  or  surface 
water  is  available  for  irrigation.   Much  of  the  Douglas  Creek  Valley  is 
irrigated  hay  meadow.   Oil  and  gas  exploration  and  development  have  been 
present  along  Route  A  (Douglas  Creek)  for  about  40  years  but  have  increased 
significantly  in  recent  years. 

3.10.2.2  Route  A  with  Deviation.   The  Route  A  deviation  would 
affect  similar  land  use,  primarily  oil  and  gas  development  and  farming, 
as  described  for  Route  A. 

3.10.2.3  Route  B.   Route  B  crosses  public  lands  primarily  used  for 
livestock  grazing  and  recreational  hunting.   Most  of  these  lands  are 
used  by  local  ranchers  for  summer  grazing.   Some  oil  and  gas  activity 
occurs  in  Gillam  Draw  near  the  northern  end  of  Route  B. 

3.10.3  La  Sal  Pipeline  Routes 

3.10.3.1   Route  1  (Route  Segment  1  Only) .   Land  uses  along  miles  0 
to  5  in  Garfield  County  are  primarily  livestock  and  wildlife  grazing. 
This  route  segment  receives  little  use  because  of  the  lack  of  maintained 
roads  and  its  isolation  from  population  centers.   Several  four-wheel 

3-69 


drive  roads  traversed  by  the  route  provide  access  to  rangeland  and  to 
several  abandoned  mineral  prospects,  but  they  receive  only  occasional 
use.   Roadway  access  to  these  secondary  roads  is  from  East  Douglas 
Creek.   There  are  no  other  major  land  uses  in  this  area.   From  mile  5  to 
mile  21.5,  Route  1  crosses  into  Rio  Blanco  County  and  to  Piceance  Creek 
along  the  northeastward-trending  ridgelines.   Grazing  is  the  only  major 
land  use  in  this  area. 

Near  mile  21.5  the  proposed  route  would  cross  Piceance  Creek  and  an 
improved  road  of  the  same  name.   Hay  is  grown  in  pastures  on  the  valley 
floor  using  irrigation  water  diverted  from  the  creek.   Grazing,  mostly 
during  winter  and  spring  months,  occurs  on  nearby  unirrigated  lowlands. 
The  Piceance  Creek  Road  is  the  principal  transportation  artery  between 
State  Highway  64  and  789  for  residents  of  the  Piceance  Basin.   Local 
ranch  traffic  as  well  as  commercial  trucking  related  to  oil  shale 
development  are  the  primary  highway  users,  except  during  fall  when  the 
entire  area  is  heavily  used  by  big  game  hunters. 

The  route's  remaining  4.5  miles  ascend  the  northeastern  side  of  the 
valley  to  the  proposed  terminus  with  the  La  Sal  Pipeline.   Grazing  is 
the  principal  land  use  in  the  vicinity.   Only  one  little-used  unimproved 
road  would  be  crossed. 

3.10.3.2  Route  1A  (Route  Segments  1-2).   Route  1A  from  its  junction 
with  alternative  Route  1  to  mile  15.7  descends  the  sloping  terrain  to 
the  Piceance  Basin  floor.   The  course  follows  East  Fawn  Creek  and  a 
ranch  access  road  of  the  same  name.   Irrigated  hayland  lies  along  the 
creek  bottom  for  about  6  miles  beginning  near  the  junction  of  the  east 
and  west  forks.   These  crops  are  used  primarily  for  livestock  feed 
during  winter  months  and  in  spring  before  surrounding  rangeland  is  free 
of  snow.   There  are  four  ranches  along  the  creek  to  its  junction  with 
Black  Sulphur  Creek. 

The  valley  widens  at  the  junction  of  Fawn  and  Black  Sulphur  Creeks 
and  the  bottomlands  contain  extensive  areas  of  irrigated  hayland  along 
the  1.2  miles  to  Piceance  Creek.   Here  the  pipeline  would  cross  Piceance 
Creek  and  the  adjoining  road  near  the  Rock  School.   This  small  rural 
grade  school  along  with  six  other  residences  would  be  within  one-quarter 
mile  of  the  proposed  route.   The  valley  floor  on  this  area  has  extensive 


3-70 


irrigated  agriculture.   The  remaining  2  miles  of  Route  1A  ascend  the 
northeast  side  of  the  valley  to  a  junction  with  Route  1.   Grazing  is  the 
principal  use  along  this  corridor. 

3.10.3.3  Route  2  (Route  Segments  1-2).   Route  2  generally  follows 
a  path  along  the  top  of  the  Roan  Plateau  over  a  series  of  ridgetops  and 
saddles.   Elevations  range  from  8,500  feet  near  the  junction  with 
alternative  Route  1  to  8,700  feet  near  mile  8.   This  high  rugged  terrain 
has  mixed  aspen-conifer  vegetation  with  numerous  open  meadows  and  is 
particularly  useful  for  summer  livestock  pasture  and  wildlife  habitat. 
This  area  is  used  by  hunters  in  the  fall  because  of  the  presence  of  big 
game  species  and  numerous  four-wheel  drive  access  roads.   The  roads  also 
provide  vehicle  access  for  ranchers. 

The  proposed  route  descends  the  Wet  Fork  to  the  West  Fork  of  Parachute 
Creek  before  rising  again  to  terminate  near  Davis  Point.   The  Wet  Fork 
is  a  very  small  stream  paralleled  by  a  secondary  road.   There  are  no 
residences  in  the  area.   After  ascending  the  northern  side  of  the  Wet 
Fork  Canyon,  similar  terrain  and  vegetation  are  encountered  to  the  end 
of  the  route's  first  8  miles.   Grazing  is  the  principal  land  use  in  this 
area  also.   All  routing  alternatives  avoid  the  BLM  wild  horse  management 
units  that  are  north  of  Yellow  Creek. 

3.10.3.4  Route  2A  (Route  Segments  1-2-2A-2) .   Wolf  Creek  is  a  very 
small  ephemeral  stream  with  a  four-wheel  drive  road  paralleling  the 
stream  course.   There  are  no  residences  or  ranch  structures  in  the 
vicinity.   Summer  grazing  is  the  only  major  use  of  the  area,  except  for 
limited  hunting  during  the  fall. 

3.10.3.5  Route  2B  (Route  Segments  2B-2A-2B-2) .   Route  2B  from  its 
beginning  near  Red  Point  drops  considerably  through  the  unstable  Green 
River  Formation  to  the  bottom  of  Clear  Creek  Canyon.   On  the  floor  its 
path  follows  the  creek,  crossing  it  several  times  before  it  turns 
northeast  near  mile  9  to  ascend  the  canyon  and  eventually  join  Route  2A. 
There  are  no  ranches  or  irrigated  acreage  along  this  area  of  Clear 
Creek,  but  it  is  good  spring  and  summer  grazing  land  and  has  received 
considerable  use  in  the  past.   The  pipeline  would  be  placed  alongside 


3-71 


the  existing  Chevron  project  access  road  and  would  cross  it  in  several 
places.  Upon  reaching  the  plateau,  this  route  would  go  through  a  ranch 
and  associated  irrigated  hay  fields  at  about  mile  14. 

3.10.3.6   Route  2C  (Route  Segments  1-2-2C-2) .    Land  use   and 
transportation  conditions  for  Route  2C  are  the  same  as  Route  2  except 
for  the  portion  of  the  route  which  traverses  along  Ridge  Road  rather 
than  Wet  Fork. 


3-72 


4.0  REFERENCES  CITED 

Baxter,  G.  T.  and  J.  R.  Simon.   1970.   Wyoming  fishes.   Wyoming  Game  and 
Fish  Department.   Bulletin  No.  4,  168  p. 

Bechtel  Corporation  and  Ecology  Consultants,  Inc.   1975.   Environmental 
baseline  program  1974-1975,  oil  shale  prototpye  development  program, 
Parachute  Creek,  Colorado.   Union  Oil  Company  of  California. 

Behnke,  R.  J.  and  D.  E.  Benson.   1980.   Endangered  and  threatened  fishes 

of  the  Colorado  River  Basin.   Cooperative  Extension  Service,  Colorado 
State  University,  Ft.  Collins,  Colorado  Bulletin  503.   34  pp. 

Behnke,  R.  J.   1977.   Evaluation  of  recent  collections  of  cutthroat 

trout  in  Colorado.   Prepared  for  Division  of  Wildlife.   Unpublished. 
20  pp. 

Black,  Kevin  D.   1981.   A  cultural  resource  clearance  survey  of 

approximately  28.8  miles  (46.7  k)  of  CIG  pipeline  routes,  Piceance 
Basin,  Colorado.  Ms.  on  file  at  Metcalf-Zier  Archaeologist,  Inc., 
Eagle,  Colorado. 

Bridge,  T.  G.  ,  D.  J.  Knox,  and  E.  K.  Gordon.   1978.   Cultural  resource 
inventory  report,  Sage  Brush  Hills  II  unit  area  main  and  gathering 
lines,  Rio  Blanco  County,  Colorado.   Ms.  on  file  at  Gordon  and 
Kranzush,  Inc.,  Boulder,  Colorado. 

Cashion,  W.  B.  and  J.  R.  Donnell.   1975.  "Revision  of  nomenclature  of 
the  upper  part  of  the  Green  River  Formation,  Piceance  Creek  Basin, 
Colorado  and  Eastern  Uinta  Basin,  Utah."  U.S.G.S.   Bulletin  1294-G. 

Carlson,  C.  A.,  C.  G.  Prewitt,  D.  E.  Synder,  E.  J.  Wicks,  E.  L.  Ames, 

and  W.  D.  Fronk.   1979.   Fishes  and  macroinvertebrates  of  the  White 
and  Yampa  Rivers,  Colorado.   Final  report  on  a  baseline  survey 
conducted  for  the  Bureau  of  Land  Management.   Colorado  State 
University,  Fort  Collins,  276  pp. 

Colorado  Division  of  Wildlife.   n.d.   Unpublished  mapping  information  in 
the  Colorado  Wildlife  Information  System,  CDOW,  Denver. 

Colorado  Division  of  Wildlife.   1978.   Elk  and  deer  winter  concentration 
area  maps. 

Connors,  C.  E.,  and  R.  K.  Alexander.   n.d.   Surveillance  of  the 

construction  of  I.G.C.  production's  pipeline  and  compressor  station 
in  the  area  of  5RP148.   Ms.  on  file,  Bureau  of  Land  Management, 
Craig  District,  Colorado. 

Cook,  C.  W.   1974.   Surface  rehabilitation  of  land  disturbances  resulting 
from  oil  shale  development.   Colorado  State  University  Technical 
Report  Series  No.  1,  Final  Report  Phase  I.   255  pp. 

Craig,  G.  1980.  Wildlife  researcher,  Colorado  Division  of  Wildlife. 
January  22.  Personal  communications  to  T.  M.  Phelan,  ERT,  Fort 
Collins,  Colorado. 

4-1 


Creasman,  S.  D.   1981.   Archaeological  investigations  in  the  Canyon 
Pintado  Historic  District,   Rio   Blanco  County,   Colorado. 
Phase  I  -  inventory  and  excavation.   Reports  of  the  Laboratory  of 
Public  Archaeology,  No.  34,  Colorado  State  University,  Fort  Collins. 

Cullins,  H.  L.  1971.  Geologic  Map  of  the  Rangely  Quandrangle,  Rio 
Blanco  County,  Colorado.   U.S.G.S.  Map  GW-903. 

Daniels,  D.  A.,  G.  L.  Martin,  and  A.  Pipkins.   1980.   A  cultural  resource 
inventory  of  the  proposed  Twin  Arrow  Terra  1-36  well  and  access  and 
the  northwest  pipeline  lateral  A-23  in  western  Rio  Blanco  County, 
Colorado.   Ms.  on  file,  Western  Cultural  Resource  Management,  Inc., 
Boulder,  Colorado. 

Donnell,  John  R.   1961.   "Tertiary  geology  and  oil  shale  resources  of 
the  Piceance  Creek  basin  between  the  Colorado  and  White  Rivers, 
northwestern  Colorado."  U.S.G.S.  Bulletin  1082-L. 

Ecology  Consultants,  Inc.   1977.   Final  report  summary  for  the  terrestrial 
baseline  data  accumulation  program  for  Rio  Blanco  oil  shale  project. 

Edmunds,  G.  F.,  Jr.,  and  G.  G.  Musser.   1960.   The  mayfly  fauna  of  Green 
River  in  the  Flaming  Gorge  Reservoir  Basin  of  Wyoming  and  Utah. 
University  of  Utah  Anthropology  Paper  48-111-23. 

Emrich,  S.  L.  and  B.  Painter.   1978.   A  field  inventory  of  candidate 
threatened  and  endangered  plants  of  the  Piceance  Basin  including 
adjacent  areas  and  a  floristic  survey  at  Cross  Mountain  Canyon. 
Natural  Areas  Program,  Colorado  Department  of  Natural  Resources, 
and  Office  Endangered  Species,  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service, 
Denver,  Colorado.   27  pp.   Appendices. 

Environmental  Research  &  Technology,  Inc.  1981a.  Aquatic  baseline 
report,  Clear  Creek  Property.  Prepared  for  Chevron  Shale  Oil 
Company.   Denver,  Colorado. 

Environmental  Research  &  Technology,  Inc.   1981b.   Wildlife  baseline 
report,  Clear  Creek  Property.   Prepared  for  Chevron  Shale  Oil 
Company.   Denver,  Colorado. 

Getman,  M.    1982.   Wildlife  Specialist,  BLM,  Meeker.   Personal 
communications  with  N.  Laurenson  of  ERT. 

Golder  Associates,  Inc.  1980.  Probabilistic  development  of  the  design 
earthquake  for  the  Chevron/ERT  Rangely,  Colorado,  kerogen  pipeline. 
Golder  Associates,  Inc.   Denver,  Colorado. 

Gordon,  E.  K.  ,  and  K.  Kranzusch.   1979.   Cultural  resources  inventory 
report,  North  Douglas  Creek  line,  Rio  Blanco  County,  Colorado. 
Report  on  file,  Gordon  and  Kranzusch  Archaeological  Consultants, 
Boulder. 

Grady,  James.   1980.   Environmental  factors  in  archaeological  site 

locations.   Bureau  of  Land  Management,  Colorado,  Cultural  Series  9, 
Denver. 

4-2 


Gray,  L.  J.  and  J.  V.  Ward.   1978.   Environmental  effects  of  oil  shale 
mining  and  processing.   Part  II.   The  aquatic  macroinvertebrates  of 
the  Piceance  Basin,  Colorado,  prior  to  oil  shale  processing.   U.S. 
EPA.   Ecological  Research  Series.   EPA-600/3-78-097 .   40  p. 

Gring,  Elaine,   1981.   Range  Ecologist,  BLM  Meeker  Area  Office,  personnal 

communication  to  G.  Reyes-French.   Environmental  Research  &  Technology, 
October  1981. 

Hurlbutt,  Robert  E.   1976.   Environmental  constraints  and  settlement 
predictability,  northwestern  Colorado.   Cultural  Resource  Series 
No.  3--Archaeological .   Bureau  of  Land  Management,  Colorado  State 
Office,  Denver. 

Jennings,  C.  H.   1974a.   Archaeological  reconnaissance  of  the  West 

Douglas  Creek  to  Black  Sulfur  Gulch  gas  transmission  line.   Report 
on  file,  Laboratory  of  Public  Archaeology,  Colorado  State  University, 
Fort  Collins. 

Jennings,  Calvin  H.   1974b.   Impacts  of  the  oil  shale  industry  on 
archaeology  and  history,  Piceance  Creek  Basin.   In  Regional  oil 
shale  study:   environmental  inventory,  analysis  and  impact  study, 
Piceance  Creek  Basin.   Thorne  Ecological  Institute,  Boulder, 
Colorado. 

Jennings  C.  H.   1975.   Cultural  resources  inventory  for  Northwest  Pipeline 
Company.   Letter  report  on  file,  Laboratory  of  Public  Archaeology, 
Colorado  State  University,  Fort  Collins. 

Jennings,  C.  H.  ,  and  D.  M.  Hall.   1976.   Archaeological  reconnaissance 
of  the  three  proposed  well  locations  and  their  access  roads.   Rio 
Blanco  County,  Colorado.   Cultural  Resource  Mangement  Report  No.  4, 
Laboratory  of  Public  Archaeology,  Colorado  State  University,  Fort 
Collins . 

Jennings,   C.  H.,  and  C.  W.  Ritchie  III.   1975.   Archaeological 

reconnaissance  of  the  Polumbus  Corporation  pipeline  near  Rangely, 
Rio  Blanco  County,  Colorado.   Ms.  on  file,  Laboratory  of  Public 
Archaeology,  Colorado  State  University,  Fort  Collins. 

Jennings,  C.  H.  ,  and  M.  G.  Spitzer.   1976.   An  inventory  of  cultural 
resources  of  the  South  Douglas  Creek  gathering  system.   Cultural 
Resource  Management  Report  No.  3.   Laboratory  of  Public  Archaeology, 
Colorado  State  University,  Fort  Collins. 

Kane,  A.  E.   1973.   Report  of  the  1973  inventory  of  archaeological 
remains  on  Naval  Oil  Shale  Reserve  Lands  in  Garfield  County, 
Colorado.   Unpublished  M.  S.  thesis,  Department  of  Anthropology, 
University  of  Colorado,  Boulder. 

Keen,  Victoria  E.,  Donna  J.  Knox,  and  Kris  J.  Kranzusch.   1980.   Final 
cultural  resource  inventory  report  for  Exxon  West  Willow  oil  shale 
projects,   Rio  Blanco  County,  Colorado.   Cultural  Resouces  Inventory 
Report  Series  #80-10.   Gordon  and  Kranzusch,  Inc.,  Boulder,  Colorado. 


4-3 


LaPoint,  Halcyon  J.  and  Bryan  Aivazian.   1981.   Cultural  resources 

baseline  report.   Clear  Creek  Property.   Prepared  for  Chevron  Shale 
Oil  Company,  Denver,  Colorado. 

Olson,  A.  P.,  T.  G.  Bridge,  C.  Craig,  B.  LeFree,  and  S.  Strenrod.   1975. 
An  archaeological  survey  assessment  for  Rio  Blanco  oil  shale  project 
Ms.  on  file,  Department  of  Anthropology,  University  of  Denver. 

Quality  Development  Associates,  Inc.   1977.   Oil  Shale  Tract  C-b. 

Environmental  Baseline  Program.   Final  Report.   Volume  IV,  Ecology. 
Denver.   475  pp. 

Sealing,  C.   1980.   Fisheries  biologist,  CDOW,  Grand  Junction,  Colorado. 
Personal  communication  with  R.  Daggett  of  ERT. 

Smith,  A.  G.   1974.   Avian  environmental  features  at  the  Colony  Plant 
Site,  Garfield  County,  Colorado.   Part  III  in  Appendix  10.   In 
Environmental  impacts  analysis  for  a  shale  oil  complex  at  Parachute 
Creek.   Colony  Development  Operation,  Atlantic  Richfield  Co., 
Denver. 

U.S.  Bureau  of  Land  Management.   1978.  Grand  Junction  Resource  Area 
Grazing  Management  Draft  Environmental  Statement. 

U.S.  Bureau  of  Land  Management.   1981a.   La  Sal  Pipeline  Company  Shale 
Oil  Pipeline.   Draft  Environmental  Impact  Statement. 

U.S.  Bureau  of  Land  Management.   1981b.   "Piceance  Creek  Basin  Oil  Shale 
Status  Map".   Denver. 

U.S.  Bureau  of  Land  Management.   1981c.   Wildlife  Resource  maps,  Grand 
Junction  Resource  Area;  Grand  Junction  District  Office. 

U.S.  Bureau  of  Land  Management.   1980.   Draft  environmental  impact 
statement.   White  River  Resource  Area  Grazing  Management. 

U.S.  Forest  Service.   1979.   Proposed  and  Recommended  Threatened  and 
Endangered  Plant  Species  of  the  Forest  Service,  Rocky  Mountain 
Region.   Revision  of  "An  Illustrated  Guide  to  the  Proposed 
Threatened  and  Endangered  Plant  Species  in  Colorado"  compiled  by 
Barry  C.  Johnston.   U.S.  Forest  Service.   Lakewood,  Colorado. 
169  pp. 

Weber,  David  A.,  Kevin  T.  Jones,  Herbert  Rodriquez,  C.  H.  Jennins  and 
Da'ryl  J.  Daugherty.   1977.   Archaeological  reconnaissance  of  nine 
in  situ  oil  shale  lease  tracts,  Colorado-Utah.   Reports  of  the 
Laboratory  of  Archaeology,  No.  2.   Colorado  State  University, 
Fort  Collins. 

Weeks,  J.  B.,  G  J.  Leavesley,  F.  A.  Welder,  and  G.  J.  Saulnier,  Jr. 

1974.   Simulated  effects  of  oil  shale  development  on  the  hydrology 
of  Piceance  Basin,  Colorado.   U.S.  Geological  Survey  Professional 
Paper  908.   84  pp. 


4-4 


Wenger,  G.  R.   1956.   AN  archaeological  survey  of  southern  Blue  Mountain 
and  Douglas  Creek  in  northwestern  Colorado.   Unpublished  M.A. 
thesis,  Department  of  Anthropology,  University  of  Denver. 


4-5 


5.0   GLOSSARY  OF  SELECTED  TERMS 


Geohydrology 


Air  lift  pumping 

A  method  of  pumping  a  well  with  air  flow.  An  air  line  is  lowered 
into  the  well  and  air  is  circulated.  The  air  lifts  the  water  out 
of  the  well  and  flow  begins  toward  the  lowered  head  in  the  well. 
Water  which  enters  the  well  is  then  entrained  in  the  air  flow  and 
removed . 

Alkalinity 

The  capacity  of  water  to  neutralize  acid  to  a  specific  pH. 

Anisotropy 

Having  different  material  properties  in  different  directions. 

Anticline 

A  geologic  structural  fold  which  is  convex  upward. 

Bailer 

A  section  of  pipe  fitted  with  a  check  valve  on  the  bottom  and  a 
bail  on  the  top  to  remove  water  from  a  drill  hole. 

Cation-anion  balance 

A  check  on  analytical  accuracy  computed  by  expressing  the 
difference  between  the  sum  of  the  cations  and  the  sum  of  the  anions 
as  a  percentage  of  the  sum  of  the  2  sums,  all  in  milliequivalents 
per  liter. 

Conductivity 

The  ability  of  a  material  to  conduct  an  electrical  current.   In 
water,  it  is  roughly  proportional  to  dissolved  ionic  concentrations 
and  to  temperature. 

Conductivity  probe 

A  device  used  to  measure  the  depth  to  water  in  wells  that  uses  the 
conductivity  of  the  water  in  the  hole  to  complete  a  circuit  through 
the  two  downhole  leads  which  is  indicated  by  a  needle  deflection  at 
the  surface.  The  two  wire  conductor  is  marked  with  depth  indicators 
to  determine  the  depth  where  the  circuit  is  completed. 

Conformable  contact 

A  surface  between  two  rock  strata  showing  no  evidence  of  disturbance. 

En  echelon 

Parallel  structural  features. 

Eocene 

The  second  epoch  of  the  Tertiary  period,  spanning  from  approximately 
36  to  58  million  years  ago. 


5-1 


Evaporation 

Conversion  of  water  to  the  vapor  state. 

Evapo transpiration 

The  cumulative  loss  of  water  to  the  atmosphere  from  both  the  surface 
and  groundwater  systems  through  evaporation  and  transpiration  by 
plants . 

Finite  element  analysis 

An  analytical  procedure  for  solving  the  governing  equations  for  any 
system  over  volumes  (finite  sized  elements)  which  are  small  enough 
that  the  solution  can  be  assured  to  vary  in  some  simple  manner 
(usually  linearly) . 

Flowing  artesian 

A  well  which  flows  without  assistance  because  the  piezometric  head 
in  the  zone  of  completion  is  sufficient  to  cause  the  water  level  in 
the  well  to  rise  above  the  ground  surface  (or  top  of  the  casing)  . 

Gaining  reach 

A  stretch  of  stream  which  is  recharged  by  flow  from  the  groundwater 
system. 

Geohydrology 

The  science  dealing  with  the  chemistry  and  physics  of  water  in 
geologic  media. 

Geophysical  logging 

Indirect  observation  of  downhole  conditions  using  probes  of  various 
kinds . 

Geothermal  gradient 

The  change  in  temperature  of  the  earth  with  depth. 

Groundwater 

Water  beneath  the  ground  surface  in  a  geologic  media,  at  or  above 
atmospheric  pressure. 

Groundwater  discharge 

The  return  of  groundwater  to  the  surface. 

Groundwater  system 

The  entire  interconnected  system  of  groundwater  flow  and  chemistry, 
considering  directions,  quantities,  sources  and  sinks,  the  material 
which  provides  the  matrix  for  the  flow  and  any  interactions  between 
these  components. 

Head  conditions 

The  distribution  of  groundwater  potentials,  which  is  indicative  of 
potential  flow  directions. 

Hydraulic  conductivity 

The  measure  of  the  capacity  of  the  geologic  material  to  transmit 
water. 


5-2 


Hydraulic  gradient 

The  rate  of  change  of  pressure  head  with  distance  along  a  flow 
path. 

Hydrogeochemistry 

The  chemistry  of  groundwater,  including  consideration  of  chemical 
equilibria  between  the  water  and  the  geologic  materials. 

Hydrostatic  conditions 

The  pressure  distribution  characteristic  of  a  body  of  water  at 
rest,  where  the  pressure  is  everywhere  directly  proportional  to  the 
depth  of  the  point  below  the  water  surface. 

Joint 

A  fracture  or  discontinuity  in  a  rock  mass  upon  which  major 
displacement  has  not  occurred. 

In  situ 

In  its  natural,  undisturbed  state. 

Infiltration 

The  flow  of  water  from  the  surface  into  groundwater  system. 

Intermittent 

A  stream  that  does  not  flow  continuously  throughout  the  year  or 
throughout  its  length. 

Losing  reach 

A  stretch  of  stream  from  which  flow  is  lost  to  the  groundwater 
system. 

Open  hole 

An  unstabilized  drill  hole,  the  integrity  of  which  is  maintained  by 
the  geologic  materials  alone. 

Parallel  drainage 

A  stream  pattern  in  which  the  streams  are  parallel. 

Perennial 

A  stream  that  flows  throughout  the  year. 

Permeability 

The  property  of  material  which  allows  fluid  flow  through  it.   Used 
in  this  study  in  a  generic  sense  (see  hydraulic  conductivity) . 

pH 

The  hydrogen  ion  activity  in  moles  per  liter,  expressed  as  the 
negative  of  the  logarithm  to  the  base  10. 

Piezometer 

An  instrument  for  measuring  the  change  of  pressure  of  a  material 
subjected  to  hydrostatic  pressure. 


5-3 


Piezometric  conditions 

The  distribution  of  groundwater  pressures  in  a  specific  horizon 
(cf.  head  conditions). 

Piezometric  surface 

A  conceptual  surface  formed  by  contouring  the  pressure  heads  from  a 
single  horizon. 

Priority  pollutants 

A  list  of  129  pollutants  given  special  designation  by  the  U.S. 
Environmental  Protection  Agency  because  there  is  no  conventional 
control  technology  for  these  pollutants. 

Quaternary 

The  time  from  the  end  of  the  Tertiary  Period  (approximately  2  million 
years  ago)  to  the  present. 

Recharge 

The  process  by  which  water  is  added  to  the  groundwater  or  surface 
water  systems. 

Recovery  test 

A  method  of  field  testing  for  hydraulic  conductivity  and 
estimating  the  storage  coefficient  (both  hydraulic  material 
properties  of  geologic  material  providing  the  matrix  for  groundwater 
flow)  by  ceasing  pumping  from  the  groundwater  and  monitoring  the 
rate  of  return  to  undisturbed  conditions. 

Representative  sample 

A  small  portion  of  the  total  populations  having  the  average 
properties  of  the  total  population. 

Riser  pipe 

The  pipe  on  which  a  submersible  well  pump  is  suspended  and  through 
which  the  water  is  brought  to  the  surface. 

Seep 

A  point  of  groundwater  discharge  without  measurable  flow. 

Spring 

A  point  of  groundwater  discharge  with  measurable  flow. 

Standard  deviation 

The  positive  square  root  of  the  expected  value  of  the  square  of  the 
difference  between  a  random  variable  and  its  mean. 

Steppe 

The  type  of  climate  in  which  precipitation,  although  slight,  is 
sufficient  for  growth  of  short,  sparse  grass;  typical  of  the  steppe 
regions  of  south-central  Eurasia. 


♦ 


5-4 


Storage  coefficient 

A  material  property  relating  the  amount  of  stored  water  released 
from  a  unit  column  of  the  geologic  material  under  a  unit  decline  of 
head.   The  coefficient  is  influenced  by  the  compressibility  of  both 
the  fluid  and  the  geologic  material. 

Surface  water  system 

The  interconnected  whole,  including  quality,  quantity,  gains,  and 
losses  of  water  flowing  or  stored  above  the  surface. 

Sync line 

A  geologic  structural  fold  which  is  concave  upward. 

Transpiration 

The  passage  of  water  through  plants  and  loss  to  the  atmosphere  as  a 
gas  through  the  plant  tissue. 

Trellis  drainage 

A  stream  pattern  in  which  tributary  streams  are  nearly  at  right 
angles  to  the  master  stream. 

Volatile  organics 

Organic  compounds  with  boiling  points  of  25°C  or  less. 

Water  table 

A  surface  below  which  saturated  conditions  exist  and  at  which 
pressure  is  everywhere  atmospheric. 

Well  bore  storage 

That  volume  of  water  which  is  required  to  fill  the  casing  to  the 
static  water  level. 

Well  completion 

The  materials  used  to  stabilize  a  drill  hole  and  allow  communication 
with  a  particular  zone. 

Well  development 

A  process  to  improve  the  yield  of  a  well  intended  to  remove  fines 
from  the  wall  rock  which  may  be  naturally  occurring  or  may  have 
been  introduced  by  drilling. 


5-5 


Soils 

Alluvium 

1)  Locally  derived  -  unconsolidated  mineral  material  deposited  on 
sideslopes  and  valley  floors  by  unconcentrated  downslope 
runoff,  accompanied  somewhat  by  gravitational  forces. 

2)  Streamlain  -  mineral  material  that  has  been  subjected  to 
appreciable  transport  in  suspension  with  concentrated  water 
flow  and  deposited  in  highly  variable  layers. 

Available  Waterholding  Capacity  (AWC) 

The  amount  of  water  available  for  plant  growth  that  a  60-inch  soil 
column  will  generally  hold.   Soil  texture  is  primary  among  the 
factors  affecting  available  waterholding  capacity;  silty  clay  loams 
typically  hold  the  most  moisture,  whereas  loamy  sands  are  droughty. 
AWC  classes  are  low  (<6  inches  water  per  60  inches  soil),  moderate 
(6  to  9  inches),  and  high  (>9  inches). 

Calcareous 

The  soil  contains  sufficient  calcium  carbonate  to  effervesce  with 
10%  hydrochloric  acid. 

Chroma 

A  measure  of  the  brightness  of  soil  color.   Low  chromas  are  grayish 
or  neutral;  high  chromas  exhibit  a  greater  degree  of  color  intensity, 
See  hue,  value. 

Coarse  Fragments 

That  portion  of  the  soil  mineral  particles  having  diameter  greater 
than  2  mm.   Gravels  are  somewhat  rounded  coarse  fragments  2  mm  to 
3  inches  in  diameter;  cobbles  are  3  to  10  inches  in  diameter; 
charmers  are  thin,  flat  fragments  less  than  6  inches  in  length. 
Coarse  fragment  content  is  expressed  in  percent  by  volume.   For 
example,  "gravelly"  means  15  to  35  percent  gravels.   "Very  gravelly" 
means  35  to  60  percent  gravels,  and  "extremely  gravelly"  means 
greater  than  60  percent. 

Coarse  loamy 

Generally,  a  soil  textural  class  having  less  than  18  percent  clay 
by  weight  in  the  fine-earth  fraction,  and  15  percent  or  more  of  the 
soil  particles  are  fine  sand  or  coarser. 

Colluvium 

A  deposit  of  rock  fragments  and  soil  material  accumulated  at  the 
base  of  steep  slopes  as  a  result  of  gravitational  action. 

Cryic 

A  "cold"  soil  temperature  regime  with  mean  annual  soil  temperature 
between  0  to  8°C  (32-46°F) .   Mean  summer  temperatures  are  generally 
lower  than  15°C  (59°F) .   Typically  cooler  than  frigid. 


5-6 


Deep 

The  soil  is  greater  than  40  inches  over  bedrock. 

Effective  Rooting  Depth 

The  soil  depth  to  which  roots  may  freely  penetrate  without 
obstruction  from  bedrock  or  cemented  soil  horizons. 

Epipedon 

A  surface  horizon  which  is  taxonomically  diagnostic. 

Erosion  Hazard 

The  degree  of  inherent  susceptibility  to  soil  movement  by  the 
forces  of  wind  or  water.   Based  primarily  on  soil  texture, 
aggregation,  and  organic  matter  content. 


Fine 


A  soil  textural  class  having  35  to  59  percent  clay  in  the 
fine-earth  fraction,  by  weight. 


Fine-earth  Fraction 

The  soil  portion  having  particles  with  diameters  of  less  than  2  mm. 

Fine  loamy 

By  weight,  a  textural  class  in  which  the  fine  earth  fraction  has  18 
to  34  percent  clay  and  greater  than  15  percent  fine  sand  or 
coarser. 

Frigid 

A  "cool"  soil  temperature  regime  with  mean  annual  soil  temperature 
between  (and  not  including)  0  to  8°C  (32  to  46°F) .   Mean  summer 
temperatures  are  generally  greater  than  15°C  (59°F) . 

Genetic  horizons 

Soil  horizons  resulting  from  soil-forming  processes  such  as 
freezing  and  thawing,  depth  of  water  percolation,  wetting  and 
drying,  and  organic  matter  accumulation.   The  presence,  arrange- 
ment, and  physical  and  chemical  characteristics  (texture,  salts, 
etc.)  of  genetic  horizons  determine  a  soil's  taxonomic  classification. 
See  "argillic,"  "mollic,"  and  "ochric"  for  examples  of  genetic 
horizons . 

Horizon 

A  soil  layer. 

Horizon  Nomenclature 

The  three  major  types  of  soil  horizons  are  identified  as  A,  B,  or 
C.   The  A  horizons  are  surface  layers  characterized  by  organic 
accumulations  and/or  leaching  losses  of  clays.   The  B  horizon,  or 
subsoil,  is  a  zone  of  clay  accumulation,  or  of  suspended  organic 
accumulation,  as  deposited  by  leach  water.   B  horizons  may  also 
form  in  place  by  weathering  of  mineral  fractions  to  form  clays. 
The  C  horizon,  or  parent  material,  consists  of  highly  weathered, 
unconsolidated  rock  or  other  geologically-deposited  material  which 
is  relatively  unaffected  by  the  more  active  soil  genetic  processes 

5-7 


taking  place  higher  in  the  profile.   Transitional  horizons  such  as 
an  AC  or  Bl  exhibit  characteristics  of  both  the  over-  and  underlying 
major  horizons. 

Hue 

A  factor  of  soil  color.   Hue  is  the  basic  color  (red,  brown,  olive) 
which  a  soil  exhibits.   Hues  are  identified  by  number  and  letter 
codes;  e.g.,  10R  is  red,  7.5  YR  is  reddish-yellow,  10YR  is  brownish, 
5Y  is  yellow-green. 

Internal  Drainage 

The  degree  of  soil  aeration,  related  also  to  the  rate  of  water 
movement  through  a  profile.   Internal  drainage  classes  are  determined 
mainly  by  soil  texture,  porosity,  and  depth  to  a  permanent  or 
intermittent  water  table.   Examples  of  drainage  classes  are: 
somewhat  poorly  drained,  where  a  water  table  exists  within  20  to 
36  inches  of  the  surface;  moderately  well  drained,  where  a  water 
table  is  present  at  depths  of  36  to  72  inches;  well  drained,  the 
water  table  is  below  6  feet;  somewhat  excessively  drained,  the  soil 
is  porous  and/or  shallow  or  steep;  and  excessively  drained,  the 
soil  is  very  porous,  as  in  sandy  and/or  rocky,  shallow  soils. 

Moderately  Deep 

The  soil  is  20  to  40  inches  deep  over  bedrock. 

Mollic  Epipedon 

A  deep,  dark,  organic-enriched  surface  horizon. 

Ochric  Epipedon 

A  surface  soil  horizon  characterized  by  light  color  values,  low 
organic  matter,  and/or  thickness  less  than  that  required  for  a 
mollic  epipedon. 

Pachic 

A  modifier  for  a  mollic  epipedon  greater  than  16  inches  thick  in  a 
cool  temperature  regime. 

Pedon 

A  conceptual  unit  area  of  soil  which  represents  the  nature  and 
variabilities  of  its  horizons  and  other  properties.   Comparable  to 
the  unit  cell  of  a  crystal. 

Permeability 

The  rate  at  which  water  moves  downward  through  the  most  restrictive 
layer  of  a  saturated  soil.   Primary  factors  affecting  permeability 
are  soil  texture  and  structural  aggregation.   Classes  are  defined 
from  very  slow  (<0.06  in/hr)  through  moderate  (0.6  to  2.0  in/hr)  to 
very  rapid  (>20  in/hr) .   Corresponding  textural  classes  are  clays 
through  loams  to  sands  and  gravels . 

Phase 

A  subdivision  of  a  soil  series  based  on  such  factors  as  slope, 
surface  texture,  stoniness,  salinity,  or  internal  drainage. 


5-i 


Profile 

The  sequence  of  horizons  present  in  a  soil. 

Reaction  Class 

The  pH  range  (acidity,  alkalinity)  of  a  soil.   Acid:   6.5  and  less; 
Neutral:   6.7  -  7.3;  Mildly  Alkaline:   7.4  -  7.8;   Moderately 
Alkaline:   7.9  -  8.4;   Strongly  Alkaline:    8.5  -  9.0;   Very 
Strongly  Alkaline:   greater  than  9.0. 

Residuum 

Unconsolidated  material  which  accumulates  by  weathering  of  parent 
material  in  place. 

Runoff 

The  relative  rate  that  water  flows  over  the  surface  of  the  soil. 
Examples  of  classes  are  "slow"  and  "rapid".   Slow  runoff  is  where 
surface  water  flows  away  so  slowly  that  free  water  covers  the  soil 
for  long  periods  of  time,  or  else  enters  the  profile  rapidly  and 
percolates  through  or  evaporates.   Rapid  runoff  is  where  water 
moves  quickly  over  the  soil  surface  and  only  a  small  part  moves 
through  the  profile. 

Sandy 

Texture  of  the  fine  earth  is  sand  or  loamy  sand  but  not  loamy  very 
fine  sand  or  very  fine  sand;  rock  fragments  make  up  less  than 
35  percent  by  volume. 

Series 

A  level  of  classification  in  the  soil  taxonomic  system;  somewhat 
similar  to  the  species  category  in  the  Linnaean  taxonomic  system. 

Shallow 

The  soil  is  less  than  20  inches  over  bedrock. 

Skeletal 

The  soil  profile,  at  diagnostic  depth,  is  characterized  by  greater 
than  35  percent  rock  fragments  by  volume. 

Soil  Survey  Orders 

The  intensity  of  field  investigations  based  on  frequency  of  profile 
examinations  and  size  of  map  scale.   Order  2  intensity  is  generally 
conducted  at  scale  of  1:6,000  to  1:24,000,  with  profiles  examined 
in  at  least  80%  of  the  delineations.   Order  3  investigations  are 
conducted  on  a  reconnaissance  basis,  relying  heavily  on  aerial 
photointerpretation,  relatively  wide-spaced  profile  examinations, 
and  geomorphic  interpretations.   Scales  are  commonly  1:15,840  and 
1:24,000. 

Structural  Aggregation 

The  type  of  grouping  exhibited  by  soil  particles;  the  shape  of  soil 
solids.   Examples  of  soil  aggregates  are  blocky  (cube-like), 
prismatic,  and  granular. 


5-9 


Texture 

The  percent  by  weight  of  sand,  silt,  and  clay  in  a  soil.   Coarse 
fragment  modifiers  are  used  when  appropriate  as  in  "gravelly  sandy 

clay." 

Typical  Profile 

That  profile  which  represents  the  modal  concept  of  a  soil's 
morphology  and  its  physical  and  chemical  characteristics. 

Value 

The  lightness  or  darkness  of  a  soil  color. 

Variant 

A  unique  soil  which  does  not  occupy  enough  total  acreage  to  warrant 
the  establishment  of  a  new  soil  series.  Variants  are  named  for  the 
established  series  which  they  most  closely  resemble. 


5-10 


APPENDIX  A 
SOIL  MAPPING  UNITS  AND  SOILS  DESCRIPTIONS 


3 

3 

< 

o 

3 

— . 

0 

to 

.— 

J= 

(0 

M 

OJ 

•J 

£ 

a 

OJ 

c 

E 

a 

00 

u 

•H 

HI     IS 

(0 

U)    N 

>- 

-   n 

J3 

m  .e 

a. 

o 

u    3 

0 

1     V> 

a.  o 

o   u 

i-l    u 

</> 

3   -H 

o  s 

OS  v>< 


a; 


01 

4J  CO  i— I 
3  -H  -H 
O  >  = 
OS    (U  — ' 

a 


U5 

a; 

OJ 

4J 

3 

■H 

a 

r: 

cc 

w 

00 

o 


3 

•. 

'- 

< 

TJ 

11 

u 

TJJ 

3 

co 

O 

O 

N 

£ 

^J 

co 

— 

- 

tn 

U 

S 

a 

c 

o 

c 

0) 

OJ 

"O 

E 

w 

E 

u 

00 

0 

00 

a 

a 

u 

CO 

N 

OJ     OJ  t-i    OJ  -C 

a.  -o    to    a,  oo 


0!    5* 
E   i/-> 


3 

OJ 

0 

~> 

pH 

co 

H 

u 

CJ 

CO 

OJ 

3 

J= 

■o 

< 

W 

o 

E 

3 

3 

5* 

O 

0 

u 

u 

o 

> 

3 

<o 

>. 

< 

.3 

V.: 

to 

V 

■o 

3 

> 

ij 

O 

» 

co 

p-^ 

•o 

N 

w 

a 

•> 

■ 

w 

-3 

W 

N 

c 

4J 

CO 

m 

c 

c 

J3 

E 

o 

11 

oo 

*H 

E 

C 

a 

V> 

00 

o 

u 

o 

co 

IM 

u 

u 

w 

OJ 

U-l 

o 

11 

u 

V> 

.c 

OJ 

11 

u 

oo 

<a 

to 

•H 

to 

J= 

0 

J= 

u 

oo 

u 

1 

o 

■w 

iJ 

u 

J= 

•• 

J3 

OJ 

00 

OJ 

>. 

a. 

•H 

a. 

h 

o 

i-H 

o 

0) 

i — i 

W 

> 

co 

CO 

o 


o 


o 


3 

10 

.e 

w 

a. 

o 

b 

to 

!0 

aj 

•- 

a. 

•j 

to 

3 

04 

in 

r-^ 

-3 

1 

9J 

3 

u 

—t 

B, 

00 

to 

3 

O 

u 

00 

—* 

u 

to 

'H 

w 

1 — 1 

cu 

HI     O 

a  - 


CO  -^ 

<J    — < 
rH     iO 


h  <h  a 


O  -*    B 

u  —   -H 

*J  CO   i— 1 

CO 


o    a. 
3    o 

W     I-C 


o 

>. 

*J 

OJ 

1 

3 

T3 

— 

OJ 

<0 

J 

u 

CO 

■-* 

1) 

J£ 

3 

■3 

I — 1 

CO 

0 

to 

' — ' 

>. 

— I  U  s~. 

OJ  C  OO 

4-1  •*  C 

CO  i—l  -H 

U  CO  *^ 

'.  i  I 

■C  H  OJ 

o  nj  w 


9< 


a 

Ed 

S 


<  ^ 

M 

41     01 

o 

3   •-* 

0    S 

as  w 

v> 

V 

a 

o 

WO  «J 


O    w     C     C 


«    o    a>    rc 


ra 

>. 

>. 

>> 

u 

.o 

«J 

41 

II 

•  -^ 

>> 

— * 

B 

-r 

c 

ra 

u 

00 

U 

— 

— i 

1 — 1 

e 

II 

(Q 

•H 

15 

0 

•^ 

-a: 

E 

JC 

u 

0 

*j 

E 

ra 

^ 

ra 

41 

J£ 

M 

1 — 

c 

ra 

<5 

U 

>> 

0 

>% 

—J 

■o 

u 

OJ 

•H 

-r 

fcj 

C 

4J 

w 

£ 

*-< 

ra 

3 

^H 

VI 

00 
•H 

W 


o 


11 

•  H 

>  -^ 

(A 

•H    ~-t 

-3    a; 

U 

c   > 

ra 

41     41 

.O 

~H    ^-t 

o 

o 

XI 

CJ 

*-« 

vO 

<r 

<T 

ra 

41 

41 

s» 

U 

IM 

-J 

B 

41 

c 

e 

u 

0 

41 

O 
E 


41  N 

E  ra 

o  -e 

CO 


O     E 
-     o 


S*  JS 

> 

ra 

s 

41 

0 

js 

>/) 

41 

o 

£ 

u 

0 

41 

uo 

a 


41 

w 

— 

O 

41 

^-t 

-C 

w 

c 

ra 

u 

o 

^ 

< 

l-    o 

ra  — i 
c    ui 


41 

41 

£ 

JS 

41 

90 

E 

'M 

O 

JS 

CO 

S 

VI 

B 

41 

a 

a. 

JS 

o 

u 

to 

>. 

41 

3^ 

3 

J* 

CO 

1 

3 

UO 

aa 

01     n 


PS  •— ' 


3   -H 
O     > 

OS    <u 
a 


3   -H 

o  = 


>. 

is 

M 

A 

n 

> 

c 

o 

■  -H 

03 

03 

4J 

o 

C 

u 

01 

11 

E 

oo  js 

to 

00 

u 

■*- 

CL    01   — I 

o  -o  ra 
— i  o  .e 
co    E    oi 


01     u 

oi    is 


e 
<u  o 


1) 

j= 

u 

oo 

3 

•-H 

-J 

A 

X 

u 

>* 

4-1 

11 

^ 

> 

<o 

1) 

01 

-J 

C 

3 

»■ 

OJ 

o 

n 

e 

--< 

a. 

oo 

o 

03 

to 

^^ 

u 

J3 

U     01 

■  H 

41 

01     O. 

i— 1 

a. 

>%   O 

(— 1 

o 

O     —< 

r:   oi 

m 

03 

UJ 

00 

in 

X 

.* 

E 

01 

01 

3 

•H 

A 

-H 

0 

-3 

10 

OO 

J£ 

Cu 

•H 

IS 

oo 
B 

1/3 

>> 

•H 

•o 

TT 

3 

OO 

01 

n3 

00 

i — i 

3 

Xi 

•rt 

03 

•J 

03 

to 

u 

03 

-* 

>. 

10 

O 

4-> 

Q, 

a. 

to 

■-4 

3 

0) 

01 

E 

•-4 

E 

E 

o 

-^ 

O    O    1-4    IS 

Jl      II*      ID 


o 


01  01 

E  E 

o  o 

CO  1/1 


3 

to 

< 

N 

to 

3 

J3 

0 

3 

o 

to 

03 

*J 

O 

3 

44 

OJ 

OJ 

E 

O0J3 

to 

00 

u 

■H 

cm 

JS 

u 

>. 

oi 

M 

u 

U 

to 

> 

-    10 

oi    u 

■3.  01 
O  73 
i-l  O 
co    E 


3~8 

o 


IS 

3. 

o 

E 

o 

u 

>. 

73 

01 

c 

A 

to 

>. 

p— I     OJ 

■h   a. 

.3     O 


oo 


1 

1 

3 

01 

■u 

a 

-< 

— 

i — 

to 

oo 

i 

u 

•H 

ii 

OJ 
-a 

0) 

to 

3 

0 

u 

o 

E 

0) 

01 

■a 

03 

4-1 

o 

o 

m 

c 

E 

u 

01 

01 

V 

- 

73 

E 

"3 

•• 

3 

u 

OO 

hi 

to 

A 

to 

10 

to 

XJ 

oo 

X 

N 

u 

N 

3 

•H 

1) 

10 

UM 

to 

01 

A 

— ' 

.c 

01 

A 

E 
oo 

>> 

£ 

c 

03 

3 

to 

- 

o 

u 

o 

- 

01 

10 

10 

tw 

> 

3 

01 

01 

o 

0) 

i 

o 

.3 

0 

u 

o 

11 

II 

fH 

1-1 

44 

to 

_■ 

01 

01 

01 

01 

- 

to 

to 

E 

E 

is 

1-1 

J= 

o 

A 

o 

x: 

o 

u 

01 

oi 

OO 
•H 

03 

oo 

o 

o 

„ 

a 

-3 

* 

A 

■4 

E 

73 

01 

01 

0) 

U 

a. 

>. 

a. 

>* 

a. 

* 

to 

o 

u 

o 

u 

o 

u 

N 

-- 

01 

(— i 

0) 

-H 

3 

<0 

oo 

> 

CO 

> 

CO 

< 

A 

8* 


■— '  s-8 


o 

03     IS 

-3 

ti  a«J 

4-1 

CX 

a.       i-< 

u 

1 

O     3     is 

10 

3 

—    —     — 

a. 

•-^ 

03    XI 

jO 

to    1) 

D 

<o 

s-s  -»:    c 

XI 

j: 

o    to    o 

>< 

IS 

m  h  x 

IS 

i — i 

l     CO   OS 

3 

C3 

in    i     i 

1 

oo  to 

3   -ii 

O     r— 


01 

01 

E    73 

E 

O     3 

o 

co    io 

CO 

u 

3 


»    V3 

-x; 

01 

ai    3 

Oh      - 

C-    01 

O    U 

o    E 

— i  3 

—   o 

CO   < 

CO     01 

O  3^ 

u  /— .  o 

0)  O  w 

0  W    4-> 

E  >- 

(0  4-t     IS 

73  03     l-i     O* 

3  0)     IS 

is  a.  a.  oi 

>  o         u 

1  i->    o    o 

3  03     10      E 

to  E    io 

E  3-8   u  73 

u  c    io    3 

is  in  4j    is 

4J  i    co  > 

co  m    i     i 


m 
X 


u 

- 

3 

to 

< 

N 

to 

3 

A 

a 

3 

0 

-  73 
CJ     U 

3    is 

<     N 
10 

3  A 
O 

-H     3 
O 


o 

1 

o 

1 

u 

01 

u 

01 

u 

3 

4-1 

3 

to 

o 

to 

O 

01 

u 

01 

- 

Cl 

01 

r— i 

3. 

11 

—4 

0 

73 

IS 

o 

73 

73 

0 

A 

o 

x; 

CO 

E 

03 

CO 

E 

03 

■->  3-e 

3^  in 
o  en 


H     01 

u 

IS 

O     Q, 

IS 

34 

E    O 

a. 

u 

-    03 

3 

IS 

c 

O 

03 

O  8-8 

N 

N  m 

IS 

^ 

7)    VO 

—1 

01 

a 
u 


Cd 

-J 

< 


3   ■* 
O   E 

as  w 


o  *~- 

<  -h  w 

4-1  (U 

HI     re  — 

4-1     'r.  -H 

s   >  = 

O     H)  ^-" 

as  a 


<  <-» 

w 

-3- 

HI     HI 

*J  — i 

O 

3    -H 

o  = 

a:  w 

Hi 

oj  -c 

-  4J 

W4  a, 
u 

HI  -3 

e 

O  4-1 

co  re 


£    3 

I     o 

<U  — i 


3  u 
< 

3  -C 
O  I- 
—I     (5 


1) 

4J  C 

re  0 

-  -rt 

HI  w 

■a  o 

o  w 

S  HI 


HI   — i 

o    re 


— 

HI 

•H 

Q. 

09 

0 

10 

w 

4-> 

HI 

o^ 

a.  u-i 

«N 

— 

1 

o 

en 

3-* 


u-l 
O 


01 


CI 


c  w  ^ 

HI  HI  S-«  4J 

>  am  f 

3  o  m  re 

— .  -4  w  a. 


oi 


OS 


'-  s-8    u    4J 

i-  in    re    c 

0  i     a.  hi 
e-  o        > 

1  W     3 

W  -    00  pH 

00  -3      C    >*« 

3  Hi   —  -H 

■-4  3    £3    f- 

ca  oo  i     i 


B 
0 


00 

e 

3 

o 
xi 
o 


o 


0] 


C 
HI 

S  -a 

00  L. 

B!  re 

U  N 

v-  re 


O 


o 


HI 

a. 

0 

01 

W 

HI 

Bu 

*« 

o 

o 

in 

V) 

i 

m 

s-e 

o 

* 

u 

3 
< 

3    3 

o   o 


C    N 
Hi    re 

E  -c 


a.  >> 

o  t* 

—  HI 

CO  > 


5"* 

CO 


>> 

— 

'-£ 

oo 

c 

~ 

■-4 

0 

u 

H 

H 

W 

X 

>. 

V.  — 

>. 

3    re 

4J 

oo 

c  .*: 

•  H 

3 

Hi  — 

3 

C 

i-    re 

'-. 

re 

*M 

w 

U    >% 

re 

U) 

re    hi 

01 

CO 

>*  >. 

w 

re 

—   - 

u 

>>  i- 

re 

—     V 

TO      C 

a 

00  "S 

Hi    — 

3     O 

—>    — 

HI 

0    E 

—4    re 

= 

Id 

E  -* 

O 

w    o 

CO 

CO      4J 

-*    re 

a  >% 

o    I- 

—     4J 


e 

HI 

re 

a 

^ 

o 

u 

w 

re 

j2 

s< 

u 

m 

o 

N 

i 

re 

o 

as 

m 

3-s 


<_> 

3 

< 

3   T3 

o    u 

h    re 

N 

>%  re 

<A 

-  js 

4-1 

01 

c 

>   c 

o 

re 

-  «H 

u 

CO    w 

4-1 

4-1    o 

en 

C    U 

c 

-J    o> 

0 

e 

<_> 

oo  js 

re    oo 

U   -H 

re 

IM    JS 

-J 

< 


3     > 

O     01 

OS   Q 


II     01 


re    c 
r:  3 


-  3 

c_>   o 

3  — 
<  —i 


C  N 
D  re 
E  — 


u 

10     (0 

•  H 

III 

>> 

01 

o 

co 

10 

u 

co 

u    co 

>> 

u 

01 

u 

oi  .* 

-z 

re 

> 

re 

u 

cu 

o 

1 

o 

—    re 

u 

u 
— 1 

3 

u 

00 -h 

•• 

re 

o 

" 

j=     - 

OJ 

u 

01 

01 

©. 

m 

1— 1 

a 

>»  a. 

o 

TD 

re 

0 

u     o 

0 

js 

11    fH 

co 

E 

co 

en 

>  co 

oa 

■Ji 

o> 

01 

4-4 

-j 

a 

•H 

in 

o 

z 

OS 

^— ' 

o 

co 

u 

0) 

o 

a. 

~3-« 

OS 

o 

J-S  u-> 

1 

— 

O    OJ 

c 

(A 

~J  w 

o 

w 

o"« 

4-1 

u 

4-1      1-1 

u    re 

re    o. 


—  XI 
re  re 
j*  ■- 


0J 

1) 

3 

OI 

G 

B 

O 

s 

o 

0 

£ 

o 

Gfl 

in 

re 

CO 

c 

U 

oi 

•a 

= 

00 

01 

re 

> 

v. 

— i 

co 

co 

01 

OI 

co 

u 

— 

X 

S3 

01 

re 
-  JS 
OJ    3 

a,  oi 
o    E 

p-H     O 
CO     CO 


u 

01 

3 

4J 

< 

a 

3 

01 

o 

■o 

— 

o 

3 

E 

O 

>, 

— - 

u 

01 

Oi 

re 

> 

oo  j= 

re 

CO 

01 

-3 

n: 

E 

N 

00 

V 

re 

re 

> 

£ 

u 

IW 

co 

B 

CO 

O 

cu 

01 

•  p4 

CO 

o 

CO 

u 

X 

0 

re 

OJ 

- 

0 

tu 

o 

*J 

re 

JS 

JS 

OC 

01 

3 

•-4 

Q. 

01 

j3 

0 

£ 

O 

o 

en 

co 

-J 

o 


'H 

re    re 

— 1 

(0 

so.  > 

u 

01 

1 

SL 

e  e 

3 

o 

3    3 

3 

o   o 

O 

co 

-3    T3 

~Z 

l« 

?* 

—    — 

— 

m 

■-4    »H 

vO 

^H 

i 

o  o 

u 

IT) 

1      1 

■a 

Bi 

n 

>- 

> 

OO 

u 

"O 

u 

3 

=i 

a 

a.  >> 

o  u 

-*  01 

CO  > 


<b   e    i   >-i 


u    oo        r-J 


a. 
E 

a 


U  5*4  3-* 

*J  O    O 

3  ifl  n 

O  WW 


co  «  4-i  a. 

4-1  oi    c  o 

c  a.  01  l-l 

oi  o  js  v 

JS  — <      4J  4-1 


u  o^    u    u 


1 — 1 

O 

GO 

oc 

CO 

O 

£ 

l-l 

O 

OJ 

Ui 

<*- 

I4H 

•  H 

CO 

TT 

— 

QJ 

>. 

> 

00 

— 4  re 

•H  N 

0  re 

CO  -= 


in 

CO 

I 

CU 

o 



^H 

T3 

3 

01 

00 

. — i 

0-* 

in 

3 

m 

o 
o 


CO  3-8 

4-i  in 

c  -j- 

OJ 

>   li 


O  t-    OJ 


TABLE  A- 2 


♦ 


Map  Unit 
Number 


Map  Unit  Name 


Surface 

Texture  (typical) 


Subsurface 

Texture  (range) 


Permeability 


2F      Parachute  loam,  25-75%  slopes 


Loam 


Loam-extremely  channery  Moderate 
loam 


2Ce     Parachute-Rhone  loams,  5-30% 
slopes 

-  Parachute  part  (55%)  Loam 

-  Rhone  part  (35%)  Loam 


Loam-extremely  channery  Moderate 

sandy  loam 

Loam-very  channery       Moderate 

loam 


4 
16 


26 

33 

38 

38C 

39 

39C 

41 


Colarow  sandy  loam  [nearly  level]   Sandy  loam 

Irigul-Parachute  complex,  5-30% 
slopes 

-  Irigul  part  (60%)  Channery  loam 

-  Parachute  part  (30%)  Loam 


Rhone  loam,  30-75%  slopes 


Havre  loam,  0-4%  slopes 

Havre  loam,  0-47„  slopes 

Turley  fine  sandy  loam,  0-3% 
slopes 

Turley  fine  sandy  loam,  3-8% 
slopes 


Loam 


Tisworth  fine  sandy  loam,  0-5%     Fine  sandy  loam 
slopes 


Loam 
Loam 
Fine  sandy  loam 


Glendive  fine  sandy  loam  [nearly   Fine  sandy  loam 
level ] 


Loamy  fine  sand-loam     Moderately  rapid 


Extremely  channery  loam  Moderate 

Loam-extremely  Moderate 
channery  sandy  loam 

Loam-very  channery  loam  Moderate 

Fine  sandy  loam-clay  Slow 
loam 

Loam-silty  clay  loam  Moderate 

Loam-silty  clay  loam  Moderate 

Loam  Moderately  slow 


Fine  sandy  loam     Loam 


Stratified  fine  sandy 
loam 


Moderately  slow 


Moderately  rapid 


46C 


46D 


47 


Kobar  silty  clay  loam,  3-8% 
slopes 


Silty  clay  loam 


Kobar  silty  clay  loam,  8-15%       Silty  clay  loam 
slopes 

Abor  clay  loam,  5-30%  slopes       Clay  loam 


48      Bulkley  channery  silty  clay        Channery  silty 
loam,  5-30%  slopes  clay  loam 

50C     Patent  loam,  3-8%  slopes  Loam 


Heavy  silty  clay  loam 
silty  clay 

Silty  clay  loara- 
silty  clay 

Silty  clay  loam- 
silty  clay 


Very  fine  sandy  loam- 
loam 


Slow 


Slow 


Slow-very  slow 


Clay  loam-silty  clay     Slow 


Moderate 


50D     Patent  loam  8-15%  slopes 


Loam 


Very  fine  sandy  loam- 
loam 


Moderate 


63      Rentsac  channery  loam,  5-50%       Channery  loam 
slopes 


Very  channery  light 
loam-extremely  flaggy 
light  loam 


Moderately  rapid 


TABLE  A- 2  (CONTINUED) 


Map  Unit 
Number 


Map  Unit  Name 


Surface  Subsurface 

Texture  (typical)   Texture  (range) 


Permeability 


65E     Moyerson  stoney  clay  loam, 
15-65%  slopes 

70      Piceance  fine  sandy  loam, 
5-15%  slopes 

72  Chipeta  silty  clay  loam, 
3-25%  slopes 

73  Yamac  loam,  2-15%  slopes 

138     Billings-Torrif luvents  complex, 
gullied  0-5%  slopes 

-  Billings  part  (55%) 

-  Torrifluvents  part  (35%) 

150     Kinnear  fine  sandy  loam,  1-5% 
slopes 

X5      Northwater /loam,  5-50%  slopes 


X6      Irigul  channery  loam,  5-50% 
slopes 

X7      Silas  loam,  0-8%  slopes 


X26     Razorba  channery  sandy  loam, 
30-75%  slopes 

X33     Uffens  loam,  0-5%  slopes 

X38     Billings  silty  clay  loam, 
0-5%  slopes 

X39     Nihill  channery  sandy  loam, 
5-507,  slopes 

X48     Blakabin-Rhone-Waybe  complex, 
5-50%  slopes 

-  Blakabin  part  (45%) 

-  Rhone  part  (25%) 

-  Waybe  part  (20%) 


Stoney  clay  loam    Hesoy  clay  loam-clay     Slow 


Fine  sandy  loam     Loam-channery  light      Moderate 
loam 


Silty  clay  loam     Silty  clay 


Loam 


Channery  loam 

Loam 

Channery  sandy 
loam 

Loam 

Silty  clay  loam 


Channery  sandy 
loam 


Loam 


Slow 


Moderate 


Silty  clay 

loam 

Light  loam- loam 
silty  clay  loam 

Slow 

ND 

ND 

ND 

Fine  sandy 

loam 

Light  loam- loam 

Moderate 

Loam 

Loam-very  channe 
sandy  clay  loam 

ry 

Moderate 

Extremely  channery  loam  Moderate 


Light  loam-light  sandy   Moderate 
clay  loam 


Channery  sandy  loam 


Moderately  rapid 


Loam-light  clay  loam     Moderately  slow 
Silty  clay  loam         Slow 


Very  channery  sandy      Moderately  rapid 
loam,  very  channery  loam 


Clay  loam  Clay  loam-clay  Slow 

Loam  Very  channery  loam  Moderate 

Flaggy  clay  loam    Channery  silty  clay  Slow 
loam 


X58     Starman-Vandamore  complex, 
5-50%  slopes 

-  Starman  part  (50%) 

-  Vandamore  part  (40%) 


X64     Blazon,  moist-Rentsac  complex, 
8-65%  slopes 
-  Blazon  part  (50%) 


Rentsac  part  (35%) 


Channery  loam       Extremely  channery  loam  Moderate 
Channery-extremely  Extremely  channery  loam  Moderate-moderately 
channery  loam  rapid 


Channery  loam       Channery  clay  loam-      Moderately  slow 

very  shaley  clay  loam 
Channery  loam       Channery  light  loam-     Moderately  rapid 

extremely  flaggy  light 

loam 


TABLE  A-2  (CONTINUED) 


Map  Unit 
Number 


Map  Unit  Name 


Surface  Subsurface 

Texture  (typical)    Texture  (range) 


Permeability 


X66     Rentsac-Moyerson-Rock  Outcrop 
complex,  5-65%  slopes 
-  Rentsac  part  (40%) 


-  Moyerson  part  (25%) 

-  Rock  Outcrop  part  (20%) 

X89     Cliffdown-Cliffdown  variant 
complex,  5-65%  slopes 

-  Cliffdown  part  (60%) 

-  Cliffdown  variant  part  (25%) 


BL      Badlands  [10-65%  slopes] 

RT      Torriorthents-Rock  Outcrop 
complex,  15-90%  slopes 
-  Torriorthents  part  (50%) 

-Rock  Outcrop  part  (30%) 

RG  Torrifluvents,  gullied  [0-5% 
slopes]  (Torrifluvents  =  35%, 
gullies  and  headcuts  =  45%) 

RO      Rock  Outcrop  [50-100%  slopes] 


Channery  loam 


Stoney  clay  loam 
NA 


Gravelly  loam 
Very  cobbly  loam 

NA 

Channery  loam 
NA 


NA 


Very  channery  light 
loam-extremely  flaggy 
light  loam 
Clay  loam-clay 
NA 


Very  gravelly  sandy 
loam 

Very  gravelly  loam- 
gravelly  clay  loam 


NA 


Fine   sandy   loam-very 

channery   loam 

NA 


NA 


Moderately  rapid 


Slow 
NA 


Moderately  rapid 
Moderately-very  slow 

Very  slow 

Moderate 
NA 


Moderately  rapid- 
slow 

NA 


* 


TABLE  A- 3 


Map  Unit     Available 
Number    Water  Capacity  Drainage 


Runoff 


Erosion 
Hazard  (Water) 


Effective 

Rooting 

Depth  (inches j 


Capability 
Subclass 
Irrigated/ 

Non-irrigated 


2F 


Low 


Well 


Medium 


Very  high 


20-40 


NA/VIIe 


2Ce 

Low 

Well 

High 

Well 

4 

Moderate 

Well 

16 

Very  low 

Well 

Low 

Well 

26 

High 

Well 

33 

Moderate 

Well 

38 

High 

Well 

38C 

High 

Well 

39 

High 

Well 

39C 

High 

Well 

41 

Moderate 

Well 

46C 

High 

Well 

46D 

High 

Well 

47 

Low 

Well 

48 

Moderate 

Well 

50C 

High 

Well 

50D 

Moderate 

Well 

63 

Very  low 

Well 

65E 

Low 

Well 

70 

Moderately  low 

Well 

72 

Low 

Well 

73 

Moderate-high 

Well 

138 

High 

Well 

ND 

ND 

150 

High 

Well 

X5 

Moderate 

Well 

X6 

Very  low 

Well 

X7 

High 

Well 

Medium 
Medium 

Medium 


Moderate-high 
Moderate-high 

Slight 


20-40 
40-60 

60+ 


Medium- 
Medium 

rapid 

Slight-high 

Moderate-very 

high 

10-20 
20-40 

Medium 

Very  high 

40-60+ 

Rapid 

Moderate 

60+ 

Medium 

Slight 

60+ 

Medium 

Slight 

60+ 

Medium 

Slight 

60+ 

Medium 

Slight-moderate 

60+ 

Slow 

Slight 

60+ 

Medium- 

rapid 

Moderate 

60+ 

Rapid 

Moderate-high 

60+ 

Rapid 

High 

20-40 

Rapid 

High 

40-60 

Medium 

Moderate 

60+ 

Medium 

High 

60+ 

Rapid 

Moderate-very 
high 

10-20 

Rapid 

Very  high 

10-20 

Slow-medium 

Moderate-high(w) 

20-40 

Rapid 

High 

10-20 

Medium 

Slight-moderate 

60+ 

Rapid 
ND 

High 
ND 

60+ 
Varies 

Medium 

Slight 

60+ 

Medium 

Moderate-very 
high 

40-60 

Medium- 

rapid 

Very  high 

10-20 

Medium 

Slight-moderate 

60+ 

NA/VIe 
NA/VIe 

Ille/IVe 


NA/VIIe 
NA/VIIe 


NA/VIIe 

IVs/VIIs 

Ille/IIIc 

Ille/IIIc 

Ille/IVe 

NA/VIe 

Ille/IVe 

IVe/IVe 

IVe/IVe 

NA/VIe 

NA/VIe 

NA/IIIe 

NA/IVe 

NA/VIIe 

NA/VIIe 

NA/VIe 

NA/VIIe 

NA/IVe 

NA/VIIe 
NA/VIIe 

Ille/IVe 

NA/VIIe 

NA/VIIe 
NA/VIe 


TABLE  A-3  (CONTINUED) 


Map  Unit     Available 
Number    Water  Capacity   Drainage 


Runoff 


Erosion 
Hazard  (Water) 


Capability 
Effective       Subclass 
Rooting        Irrigated/ 
Depth  (inches)   Non- irrigated 


X26 
X33 
X38 
X39 

X48 


X58 


X64 


X66 


X89 


BL 


RT 


RG 


Low 

Moderate 
High 
Low 

High 

High 
Moderate-low 


Very 

low 

Low 

NA 

Very 

low 

Very 

low 

Well 

Well 

Well 

Somewhat 
excessive 


Well 

Well 
Well 


Very  low 

Well 

Very  low 

Well 

Low 

Well 

Low 

Well 

Well 


Well 
NA 


Somewhat 
excessive 
Somewhat 
excessive 


Medium 
Slow 
Rapid 
Medium 

Medium-rapid 

Medium 
Rapid 


Medium 
Medium 


Rapid 
Rapid 

Medium 


Medium-rapid 
NA 


Medium-slow 
Rapid 


Very  low 

NA 

Very  rapid 

Very  low 

Well-somwhat 
excessive 

Very  rapid 

NA 

NA 

NA 

Medium-hi 

gh 

Well-somewhat 
excessive 

Rapid 

Very  high 

Moderate 

Moderate-high 

Moderate-very 
high 


Slight 
Slight 


Moderate-very 
high 

Moderate-very 
high 


Moderate-very 
high 

Very  high 
NA 


Very  high 

Very  high 

NA 

Very  high 


60+ 
60+ 
60+ 
60+ 

60+ 


Moderate-very 

high 

Slight-very  high   40-60 

Moderate-very      10-20 

high 


10-20 
20-30 


10-20 
10-20 

10-20 


10-20 
NA 


Slight-moderate    60+ 
Moderate-high      10-20 


0-10 

16 
NA 
60+ 


IVs/VIIs 
Ille/VIe 

NA/VIIe 

NA/VIIe 

NA/VIIe 
NA/VIIe 


NA/VIe-VIIe 
NA/VIe-VIIe 


NA/VIIe 
NA/VIIe 

NA/VIIe 


NA/VIIe 
NA/NA 


NA/VIIe 
NA/IIIe 

VIII 

NA/IIIe 
NA/IIIe 
NA/VIII 


RO 


NA 


NA 


NA 


NA 


NA 


NA/VIII 


SOILS  DESCRIPTIONS 

Introduction 

The  following  discussion  presents  the  baseline  data  and  impact 
analysis  for  soil  resources.   The  soils  along  the  routes  in  Rio  Blanco 
County  have  been  surveyed  at  an  Order  3  level.   Consequently,  the  level 
of  detail  is  relatively  high.   In  contrast,  no  soil  surveys  have  been 
conducted  along  the  route  in  Garfield  County  and  the  detail  to  which 
soils  can  be  analyzed  is  limited.   Therefore,  the  information  presented 
for  Garfield  County  has  been  taken  from  "Range  Site  Descriptions." 

RIO  BLANCO  COUNTY 

Map  Unit  2F  -  Parachute  loam,  25-75%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0  mi . 

-  Route  B  =  0.8  mi. 

This  moderately  deep  soil  is  located  on  mountain  ridges  and  was 
formed  in  residuum  derived  primarily  from  sedimentary  rock.   The  surface 
layer  is  typically  a  loam  approximately  4  in  thick.   The  underlying 
material,  to  a  depth  of  38  in,  ranges  from  loam  to  extremely  channery 
loam.   Content  of  rock  fragments  ranges  from  35  to  85  percent.   Depth  to 
sandstone  or  hard  shale  ranges  from  20  to  40  in.   The  profile  is  neutral 
or  mildly  alkaline.   Available  water  capacity  is  low  and  the  erosion 
hazard  is  very  high.   This  unit  is  used  primarily  for  livestock  grazing 
and  wildlife  habitat  and  is  classified  in  the  "Brushy  Loam"  range  site. 
Average  annual  production  (air-dry  vegetation)  is  about  2,000  pounds  per 
acre . 

Map  Unit  2Ce  -  Parachute-Rhone  Loams,  5-30  %  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0  mi . 

-  Route  B  =  1.2  mi. 

This  unit  is  present  on  ridge  crests,  mountainsides,  and  upland 
ridges  and  sideslopes.   The  moderately  deep  Parachute  soil  was  formed  in 
residuum  derived  primarily  from  sandstone  or  hard  shale.   The  surface 
layer  is  a  loam  4  in  thick.   The  subsurface  material  ranges  from  loam  to 
extremely  channery  sandy  Loam.   Depth  to  fractured  sandstone  or  hard 


shale  bedrock  is  from  20  to  40  in.   Content  of  rock  fragments  ranges 
from  35  to  85  percent.   The  profile  is  neutral  or  mildly  alkaline. 
Available  water  capacity  is  low  and  the  erosion  hazard  is  moderate  to 
high. 

The  Rhone  part  is  deep  and  was  formed  in  residuum  and  colluvium 
derived  primarily  from  sandstone  or  hard  shale.   The  surface  layer  is  a 
loam  about  8  in  thick.   The  underlying  material  ranges  from  loam  to  very 
channery  loam.   Depth  to  bedrock  ranges  from  40  to  60  in.   The  profile 
is  noncalcareous  and  neutral  to  mildly  alkaline.   The  C  horizon  may 
contain  35  to  65  percent  rock  fragments.   The  erosion  hazard  is  moderate 
to  high. 

The  unit  is  used  for  livestock  grazing  and  wildlife  habitat.  The 
average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  is  1,500  pounds  per  acre. 
It  is  classified  in  the  "Mountain  Loam"  range  site. 

Map  Unit  4  -  Colarow  sandy  loam  (nearly  level) 

-  Route  A  =  0.3  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0.3  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0.3  mi. 

This  deep  soil  is  located  on  floodplains  and  low  terraces.   The 
surface  layer  is  typically  a  sandy  loam  about  5  in  thick.   The  underlying 
material  ranges  from  loamy  fine  sand  to  loam.   Bedrock  is  below  60  in. 
Water  erosion  hazard  is  slight.   The  unit  is  used  primarily  for  irrigated 
hazard  pasture,  livestock  grazing,  and  wildlife  habitat.   This  soil  is 
well  suited  to  hay  and  pasture  and  is  a  source  of  topsoil.   The  main 
limitation  to  seeding  is  low  precipitation.   The  average  annual  air-dry 
production  is  about  1,500  to  2,500  pounds  per  acre.   The  unit  is  in  the 
"Sandy  Saltdesert"  range  site. 

Map  Unit  16  -  Irigul-Parachute  complex,  5-30%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  2.3  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  2.3  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  3  mi. 

This  complex  is  present  on  mountain  ridges  and  on  the  crests  and 
sides  of  hills.   The  shallow  Irigul  part  was  formed  in  residuum  derived 
primarily  from  sandstone  and  hard  shale.   The  surface  layer,  typically, 
is  a  channery  loam  5  in  thick.   The  underlying  material  is  extremely 


channery  loam.   Hard  sandstone  or  shale  bedrock  is  at  a  depth  of  10  to 
20  in.   The  pedon  is  noncalcareous  and  mildly  alkaline.   The  content  of 
channery  rock  fragments  equals  or  exceeds  30  percent  throughout  the 
profile.   Available  water  capacity  is  very  low  and  runoff  is  medium  to 
rapid.   Erosion  hazard  is  slight  to  high. 

The  Parachute  part  is  moderately  deep  and  was  formed  in  residuum 
derived  mainly  from  sandstone  or  hard  shale.   The  surface  layer  is  a 
loam  4  in  thick.   The  underlying  material  ranges  from  loam  to  extremely 
channery  sandy  loam.   Rock  content  ranges  from  35  to  85  percent  in  lower 
horizons.   The  profile  is  neutral  or  mildly  alkaline.   Available  water 
capacity  is  low  and  the  erosion  hazard  is  moderate  to  very  high. 

The  unit  is  used  for  livestock  grazing  and  wildlife  habitat.   The 
average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  is  about  900  (Irigul  part) 
to  1,500  (Parachute  part)  pounds  per  acre.   The  main  limitations  for 
seeding  are  slope,  shallow  rooting  depth,  and  short  growing  season.   The 
Irigul  soil  is  classified  in  the  "Loamy  Slopes"  range  site  and  the 
Parachute  soil  is  in  the  "Mountain  Loam"  range  site. 

Map  Unit  26  -  Rhone  loam,  30-75%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  1.1  mi. 

The  Rhone  loam  is  a  deep  soil  that  was  formed  on  mountainsides, 
upland  ridges,  and  valley  sides  from  residuum  and  colluvium  derived 
primarily  from  sedimentary  rock.   The  surface  layer  is  typically  a  loam 
about  8  in  thick.   The  underlying  material  to  50  in  ranges  from  loam  to 
very  channery  loam.   The  C  horizon  may  contain  35  to  65  percent  rock 
fragments.   Depth  to  fractured  sandstone  bedrock  ranges  from  40  to 
60  in.   The  profile  is  noncalcareous  and  neutral  or  mildly  alkaline. 
The  erosion  hazard  is  very  high.   This  unit  is  used  primarily  for 
livestock  grazing  and  wildlife  habitat.   It  is  in  the  "Brushy  Loam" 
range  site.    Average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  is  about 
2,500  pounds  per  acre. 


Map  Unit  33  -  Tisworth  fine  sandy  loam,  0-5%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =    10.2  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  10.2  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0  mi. 

This  is  a  deep  soil  found  on  valley  floors,  broad  fans,  and  low 
uplands.   It  was  formed  in  alluvium  derived  primarily  from  sedimentary 
rock  that  contains  some  gypsum  and  alkaline  salt.   Typically,  the 
surface  layer  is  a  4-in  thick  sandy  loam.   The  underlying  material,  to  a 
depth  of  60  in,  ranges  from  fine  sandy  loam  to  clay  loam.   Saline 
slickspots  are  at  the  surface.   The  pedon  is  primarily  strongly  calcareous 
and  strongly  to  very  strongly  alkaline.   The  C  horizon  may  contain  5  to 
25  percent  rock  fragments  (mainly  gravel-size)  and  commonly  has  fine 
crystalline  deposits  of  gypsum.   Permeability  is  slow,  runoff  rapid,  and 
erosion  hazard  moderate.   The  unit  is  used  for  livestock  grazing, 
irrigated  hay  and  pasture,  and  wildlife  habitat.   It  is  classified  in 
the  "Alkaline  Slopes"  range  site.   The  average  annual  air-dry  vegetative 
production  is  600  pounds  per  acre.   The  main  limitations  to  seeding  are 
low  precipitation  in  summer,  alkalinity  and  erosion  hazard. 

Map  Unit  38  -  Havre  loam,  0-4%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  4.7  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  4.7  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0  mi. 

The  Havre  loam  is  a  deep  soil  located  on  flood  plains,  stream 
terraces,  and  narrow  valley  bottoms.   It  was  formed  in  stratified 
calcareous  alluvium  from  sedimentary  materials.   The  surface  layer  is  a 
loam  21  in  thick.   The  subsurface  materials  range  from  sandy  loam  to 
silty  clay  loam  to  a  depth  of  60  in.   The  pedon  is  calcareous  and 
moderately  to  strongly  alkaline.   The  erosion  hazard  is  slight.   Fine 
filaments  or  threads  of  lime  or  salts  may  be  found  in  the  C  horizons  of 
some  pedons .   This  soil  is  subject  to  brief  periods  of  flash  flooding  in 
small  areas  late  in  spring  and  summer.   The  unit  is  used  primarily  for 
livestock  grazing,  irrigated  cropland,  and  wildlife  habitat.   The  unit 
has  few  limitations  to  hay  and  pasture  and  is  suited  to  range  seeding. 
It  is  in  the  "Foothill  Swale"  range  site.   The  average  annual  air-dry 
vegetative  production  is  about  2,000  pounds  per  acre. 


Map  Unit  38C  -  Havre  loam,  0-4%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  In  corridor  -  not  crossed 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  In  corridor  -  not  crossed 

-  Route  B  =  In  corridor  -  not  crossed 

See  "Map  Unit  38  -  Havre  loam,  0-4%  slopes." 


Map  Unit  39  -  Turley  fine  sandy,  sandy  loam,  0-3%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0.4  mi. 

This  deep  soil  was  formed  in  calcareous  alluvium  and  occurs  on 
alluvial  fans,  narrow  valley  floors,  and  low  terraces.   The  surface 
layer  is  a  fine  sandy  loam  about  4  in  thick.   The  subsurface  material  is 
loam  to  60  in.   The  pedon  is  strongly  calcareous  throughout  and 
moderately  to  strongly  alkaline.   The  erosion  hazard  is  slight.   The 
unit  is  used  mainly  for  livestock  grazing  and  irrigated  cropland.   It  is 
in  the  "Alkaline  Slopes"  range  site.   The  average  annual  air-dry 
vegetative  production  is  about  650  pounds  per  acre.   The  unit  is 
suitable  for  range  seeding  though  it  is  limited  by  low  summer 
precipitation,  alkalinity,  and  salinity. 

Map  Unit  39C  -  Turley  fine  sandy  loam,  3-8%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0.3  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  2.1  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0.8  mi. 

The  Turley  is  a  deep  soil  that  was  formed  in  calcareous  mixed 
alluvium  derived  from  sandstone  and  shale.   The  surface  layer  is  fine 
sandy  loam  about  4  in  thick.   The  underlying  material  is  a  loam  to 
60  in.   The  typical  pedon  is  strongly  calcareous  throughout  and 
moderately  to  strongly  alkaline.   The  erosion  hazard  is  slight  to 
moderate.   The  unit  is  used  mainly  for  livestock  grazing  and  wildife 
habitat.   It  is  in  the  "Alkaline  Slopes"  range  site.   The  average  annual 
air-dry  vegetative  production  is  about  650  pounds  per  acre.   The  unit  is 
suited  to  range  seeding  but  is  limited  by  low  summer  precipitation, 
alkalinity,  and  salinity. 


Map  Unit  41  -  Glendive  fine  sandy  loam  (nearly  level) 

-  Route  A  =  0.6  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0.6  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  1.6  mi. 

The  Glendive  fine  sandy  loam  is  a  deep  soil  that  was  formed  in 
stratified   calcareous  alluvium  primarily  from  sedimentary  rock 
formations.   It  occurs  in  narrow  valley  bottoms  along  drainageways .   The 
surface  layer  is  a  fine  sandy  loam  about  6  in  thick.   The  subsurface 
material  is  a  stratified  fine  sandy  loam  to  60  in.   The  typical  pedon  is 
calcareous,  moderately  alkaline  in  the  upper  part  and  calcareous, 
strongly  alkaline  in  the  lower  part.    The  control  section  has  5  to 
15  percent  fine  channery  rock  fragments  throughout.   The  erosion  hazard 
is  slight.   This  unit  is  used  primarily  for  livestock  grazing  and 
wildlife  habitat  with  a  few  areas  used  for  irrigated  pasture.   It  is 
well  suited  to  pasture.   The  main  limitation  to  urban  development  is 
flooding  hazard.   The  limitations  to  range  seeding  are  low  precipitation 
and  droughtiness  of  soil.   The  unit  is  classified  in  the  "Foothills 
Swale"  range  site.   Average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  is 
about  2,000  pounds  per  acre. 

Map  Unit  46C  -  Kobar  silty  clay  loam,  38%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  1.4  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  1.4  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0  mi. 

This  is  a  deep  soil  located  on  entrenched  flood  plains,  fans,  and 
narrow  valley  bottoms.   It  was  formed  in  fine  alluvium  derived  from 
shale  and  sandstone.   The  typical  surface  layer  is  silty  clay  loam  about 
3  in  thick.  The  underlying  material,  to  a  depth  of  60  in,  ranges  from 
heavy  silty  clay  loam  to  silty  clay.   The  pedon  is  weakly  calcareous, 
moderately  alkaline  at  the  surface  increasing  to  calcareous,  strongly 
alkaline  in  the  lower  horizons.   Masses  and  seams  of  calcium  carbonate 
and  gypsum  exist  in  lower  horizons.   Scattered  pebbles,  channery  rock 
fragments  and  shale  chips  are  found  throughout  the  profile. 
Permeability  is  slow,  runoff  is  medium  to  rapid,  and  the  erosion  hazard 
is  moderate.   The  unit  is  used  mainly  for  irrigated  and  non-irrigated 
cropland  and  livestock  grazing.   It  is  classified  in  the  "Deep  Clay 
Loam"  range  site.   The  average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  is 


about  2,000  pounds  per  acre.   The  unit  is  well  suited  to  range  seeding 
but  is  constrained  by  slow  permeability  and  low  precipitation. 

Map  Unit  46D  -  Kobar  silty  clay  loam,  8-15%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0.7  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0.7  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0  mi. 

The  Kobar  silty  clay  loam  is  a  deep  soil  that  was  formed  in 
calcareous  alluvium  and  colluvium  derived  primarily  from  shale.   This 
Kobar  soil  is  positioned  on  fans  and  upper  valley  sides.   The  typical 
surface  layer  is  a  silty  clay  loam  about  2  in  thick.   The  underlying 
material  ranges  from  silty  clay  loam  to  silty  clay  to  a  depth  of  60  in. 
The  pedon  is  weakly  calcareous,  moderately  alkaline  at  the  surface 
increasing  to  calcareous,  strongly  alkaline  in  the  lower  horizons. 
Masses  and  seams  of  calcium  carbonate  and  gypsum  exist  in  lower  horizons. 
Scattered  pebbles,  channery  rock  fragments  and  shale  chips  are  throughout 
the  profile.   Permeability  is  slow,  runoff  is  rapid  and  the  erosion 
hazard  is  moderate  to  high.   The  unit  is  used  primarily  for  livestock 
grazing  and  some  non-irrigated  crops.   It  is  classified  in  the  "Deep 
Clay  Loam"  range  site.   The  average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production 
is  about  1,500  pounds  per  acre.   It  is  suited  to  range  seeding  but  is 
limited  by  slow  permeability,  low  precipitation  during  critical  periods, 
slope,  and  erosion  hazard. 

Map  Unit  47  -  Abor  clay  loam,  5-30%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0  mi . 

-  Route  B  =  6.43  mi. 

This  moderately  deep  soil  is  found  on  uplands  and  low  mountain 
sideslopes  and  was  formed  in  residuum  derived  primarily  from  clayey 
shale  and  sandstone.   The  typical  surface  layer  is  brown  clay  loam  about 
4  in  thick.   Subsoil  materials  range  from  silty  clay  loam  to  silty  clay. 
Shale  bedrock  occurs  from  20  to  40  in.   The  pedon  is  calcareous  and 
moderately  to  strongly  alkaline.   A  high  percentage  of  shale  chips  is 
comon  in  the  lower  horizon.   Visable  fine  threads  and  seams  of  calcium 
carbonate  are  present  at  lower  depths.   Permeability  is  slow  -  very  slow 
and  the  available  water  capacity  is  low.   Runoff  is  rapid  and  the  erosion 


hazard  is  high.   The  unit  is  used  mainly  for  livestock  grazing  and 
wildlife  habitat.   The  average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  is 
approximately  900  pounds  per  acre.   The  unit  is  classified  in  the 
"Clayey  Foothills"  range  site.   It  is  suitable  for  range  seeding  but  is 
limited  primarily  by  steep  slopes. 

Map  Unit  48  -  Bulkley  channery  silty  clay  loam  5-30%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0.76  mi. 

This  is  a  deep  soil  that  was  formed  in  residuum  and  colluvium 
derived  primarily  from  interbedded  shale  and  sandstone.   It  occurs  on 
uplands  and  foothills.   The  surface  layer  is  typically  a  channery  silty 
clay  loam  about  5  in  thick.   The  underlying  material  is  clay  loam  to 
silty  clay.   Depth  to  shale  is  from  40  to  60  in.   The  pedon  is 
predominantly  calcareous  and  moderately  alkaline.   There  are  fine  and 
medium  seams  and  soft  masses  of  lime  in  the  lower  horizon.   The  surface 
soil  is  0  to  10  percent  basalt  cobbles  and  stones.   Permeability  is 
slow,  runoff  is  rapid,  and  the  erosion  hazard  is  high.   The  unit  is  used 
primarily  for  livestock  grazing  and  wildlife  habitat  and  some  woodland. 
It  is  classified  in  the  "Pinyon- Juniper"  woodland  site.   The  average 
annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  is  about  600  pounds  per  acre.   The 
unit  is  suited  to  range  seeding  when  slopes  are  less  than  15  percent. 
The  main  limitations  to  seeding  are  competition  from  trees  and  erosion 
hazard. 

Map  Unit  50C  -  Patent  loam,  3-8%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  2.7  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  2.7  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0  mi. 

This  deep  soil  is  located  on  fans,  uplands,  and  toeslopes.   It  was 
formed  in  alluvium,  colluvium,  and  as  a  thin  mantle  of  eolian  material. 
The  surface  layer  is  a  loam  about  10  in  thick  and  the  underlying  soil 
ranges  from  very  fine  sandy  loam  to  loam  to  a  depth  of  60  in.   The  pedon 
is  calcareous  and  mildly  to  moderately  alkaline  throughout.   Below  the  A 
horizon  is  disseminated  calcium  carbonate.   Some  pedons  have  as  much  as 
15  percent  rock  fragments  throughout.   Erosion  hazard  is  high.   The 


unit  is  used  mainly  for  irrigated  and  nonirrigated  cropland  livestock 
grazing.   It  is  in  the  "Rolling  Loam"  range  site.   The  average  annual 
air-dry  vegetative  production  is  about  800  pounds  per  acre.   It  is 
suited  to  range  seeding.   The  main  limitation  is  low  precipitation  in 
summer. 

Map  Unit  50D  -  Patent  loam,  8-15%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  In  corridor  -  not  crossed 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  In  corridor  -  not  crossed 

-  Route  B  =  In  corridor  -  not  crossed 

The  Patent  loam  is  a  deep  soil  that  was  formed  in  alluvium, 
colluvium,  and  as  a  thin  mantle  of  eolian  material.   It  is  located  on 
fans,  uplands,  and  toeslopes.   Typically,  the  surface  layer  is  a  loam 
10  in  thick.   The  underlying  layer  ranges  from  very  fine  sandy  loam  to 
loam  to  a  depth  of  60  in.   The  pedon  is  calcareous  and  mildly  to 
moderately  alkaline  throughout.   Below  the  A  horizon  is  disseminated 
calcium  carbonate.   Some  pedons  have  up  to  15  percent  rock  fragments 
throughout.   The  erosion  hazard  is  high.   The  unit  is  used  primarily  for 
livestock  grazing,  nonirrigated  cropland,  and  wildlife  habitat.   It  is 
in  the  "Rolling  Loam"  range  site.   The  average  annual  air-dry  vegetative 
production  is  about  750  pounds  per  acre.   The  unit  is  suitable  to  range 
seeding.   The  main  limitations  are  slope  and  low  summer  precipitation. 

Map  Unit  63  -  Rentsac  channery  loam,  5-50%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0.2  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0.1  mi. 

The  Rentsac  soil  is  shallow  and  is  located  on  ridges,  foothills, 
and  entrenched  upland  breaks.   It  was  formed  in  residium  derived 
primarily  from  calcareous  sandstone.   The  surface  layer  of  the  profile 
is  typically  a  channery  loam  about  5  in  thick.   The  underlying  material 
ranges  from  channery  light  loam  to  extremely  flaggy  light  loam.   Depth 
to  hard  sandstone  ranges  from  10  to  20  in.   The  pedon  is  slightly  to 
strongly  calcareous  and  moderately  alkaline.   The  A  horizon  is  20  to 
35  percent  small  rock  fragments.   Percentages  and  size  of  fragments 
increase  with  profile  depth.   Available  water  capacity  is  very  low, 
runoff  is  rapid,  and  the  erosion  hazard  is  moderate  to  very  high.   The 


unit  is  used  primarily  for  livestock  grazing  and  wildlife  habitat.   It 
is  in  the  "Pinyon-Juniper  Woodland"  range  site.   The  average  annual 
air-dry  vegetative  production  is  approximately  500  pounds  per  acre. 

Map  Unit  65E  -  Moyerson  stoney  clay  loam,  15-65%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0.9  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  2.5  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0.2  mi. 

This  shallow  soil  is  found  on  upland  ridges,  side  slopes, 
valleysides,  and  dissected  plateaus.   It  was  formed  in  residuum  derived 
from  calcareous  shale.   The  surface  layer  is  typically  a  stoney  clay 
loam  about  2  in  thick  and  is  covered  with  5  to  20  percent  stones,  flags, 
and  boulders.   The  subsurface  material  ranges  from  heavy  clay  loam  to 
clay.   Depth  to  shale  ranges  from  10  to  20  in.   The  pedon  ranges  from 
moderately  to  strongly  alkaline  and  is  calcareous  throughout. 
Permeability  is  slow  and  available  water  capacity.   Runoff  is  rapid  and 
erosion  hazard  is  very  high.   The  unit  is  used  primarily  for  limited 
livestock  grazing  and  wildlife  habitat.   It  is  in  the  "Clayey  Slopes" 
range  site.   The  average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  is  about 
650  pounds  per  acre. 

Map  Unit  70  -  Piceance  fine  sandy  loam,  5-15%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0.4  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0  mi . 

-  Route  B  =  0  mi. 

The  Piceance  fine  sandy  loam  is  a  moderately  deep  soil  which  is 
located  on  uplands  and  broad  ridgetops.   It  was  formed  in  eolian 
material  and  alluvium.   The  typical  surface  layer  is  a  fine  sandy  loam 
about  4  in  thick.   The  subsurface  material,  to  depth  of  20  to  40  in, 
ranges  from  loam  to  channery  light  loam.   Hard  sandstone  bedrock  is 
below  this  depth.   The  pedon  ranges  from  non-calcareous  to  calcareous 
and  mildly  alkaline  to  moderately  alkaline  increasing  with  depth.   Thin 
seams  and  soft  masses  of  calcium  carbonate  are  present  in  the  lowest 
horizon.   From  0  to  5  percent  of  the  surface  is  covered  with  fine 
channery  rock  fragments.   Rock  fragments  range  from  5  to  35  percent 
throughout  the  profile;  the  percentage  increasing  with  depth.   Available 
water  capacity  is  moderately  low  and  the  erosion  hazard  is  moderate  to 


high.   The  unit  is  used  primarily  for  livestock  grazing  and  wildlife 
habitat.   It  is  in  the  "Rolling  Loam"  range  site.   The  average  annual 
air-dry  vegetative  production  is  about  800  pounds  per  acre.   It  is 
suited  to  range  seeding  with  the  main  limitation  being  low  precipitation 
in  summer. 

Map  Unit  72  -  Chipeta  silty  clay  loam,  3-25%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  In  corridor  -  not  crossed 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  In  corridor  -  not  crossed 

-  Route  B  =  In  corridor  -  not  crossed 

This  Chipeta  soil  is  shallow  and  was  formed  in  residuum  derived 
primarily  from  calcareous,  gypsiferous  shale.   It  is  present  on  gently 
sloping  to  steep,  low  rolling  hills  and  toeslopes  of  ridges.   The 
surface  layer  is  a  silty  clay  loam  about  3  in  thick  and  the  underlying 
material  is  a  silty  clay  which  has  fine  shale  chips,  seams  of  crystalline 
gypsum  and  few  fine  threads  of  calcium  carbonate  at  depth.   Depth  to 
shale  ranges  from  10  to  20  in.   The  pedon  is  calcareous  and  moderately 
alkaline  throughout.   Content  of  salts  varies  in  amount  and  distribution. 
Permeability  is  slow  and  the  available  water  capacity  is  low.   Runoff  is 
rapid  and  erosion  hazard  is  high. 

The  unit  is  used  primarily  for  livestock  grazing  and  wildlife 
habitat.   It  is  in  the  "Clayey  Saltdesert"  range  site.   The  average 
annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  is  about  350  pounds  per  acre.   The 
suitability  of  this  unit  to  range  seeding  is  poor  due  to  shallow  depth 
to  shale,  low  precipitation,  and  slow  permeability. 

Map  Unit  73  -  Yamac  loam,  2-15%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  In  corridor  -  not  crossed 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  In  corridor  -  not  crossed 

-  Route  B  =  In  corridor  -  not  crossed 

This  deep  soil  is  located  on  rolling  uplands,  terraces,  and  fans 
and  was  formed  in  eolian  and  alluvium  materials.   The  typical  surface 
layer  is  a  loam  about  4  in  thick.   The  underlying  material  is  a  loam  to 
60  in.   The  pedon  is  calcareous  and  moderately  to  strongly  alkaline. 
Alkalinity  is  highest  with  depth.   Lime  is  present  in  lower  horizons. 
Most  pedons  have  0  to  15  percent  fine  channery  rock  fragments  throughout. 
Erosion  hazard  is  slight  to  moderate.   The  unit  is  used  primarily  for 


livestock  grazing  and  wildlife  habitat  though  a  few  areas  are  used  for 
non-irrigated  small  grain.   It  is  classsified  in  the  "Rolling  Loam" 
range  site.   The  average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  is  about 
800  pounds  per  acre.   The  unit  is  suited  to  range  seeding  with  the  major 
limitations  being  low  summer  precipitation  and  erosion  hazard  on  steep 
slopes . 

Map  Unit  138  -  Billings-Torrif luvents  complex,  gullied,  0-5%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0.4  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0.5  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0.5  mi. 

This  unit  is  located  on  floodplains,  low  terraces,  and  narrow 
valley  floors.   The  deep  Billings  soil  was  formed  in  alluvium  derived 
from  calcareous  and  gypsiferous  shale.   The  typical  surface  layer  is  a 
silty  loam  about  2  in  thick.   The  underlying  material  is  silty  clay  loam 
to  60  in.   The  pedon  is  calcareous  and  ranges  from  mildly  to  strongly 
alkaline.   It  is  non-saline  or  slightly  saline  and  contains  1  to  5  percent 
gypsum  crystals.   Permeability  is  slow,  runoff  is  rapid  and  the  erosion 
hazard  is  high. 

The  Torrifluvent  part  is  shallow  to  deep  and  has  no  set  soil 
diagnostic  characteristics.   It  is  mainly  located  on  remnants  containing 
gullies  and  headcuts. 

The  unit  is  used  primarily  for  very  limited  livestock  grazing  and 
wildlife  habitat.   It  is  classified  in  the  "Alkaline  Slopes"  range  site. 

Map  Unit  150  -  Kinnear,  fine  sandy  loam,  1-5%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0.6  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  1.1  mi. 
,-  Route  B  =  1.1  mi. 

This  is  a  deep  soil  located  on  fans  and  upland  terraces  and  was 

formed  in  calcareous  alluvium  and  eolian  material.   The  surface  layer  is 

a  fine  sandy  loam  about  5  in  thick.   The  underlying  material  to  a  depth 

of  60  in,  ranges  from  loam  to  light  loam.   The  pedon  is  calcareous  and 

mildly  or  moderately  alkaline.   The  C/Ca  horizon  has  soft  masses  and 

concretions  of  calcium  carbonate.   The  profile  is  0  to  10  percent 

gravel-sized  rock  fragments.   The  erosion  hazard  is  slight  but  the  soil 

is  susceptable  to  blowing  if  the  surface  is  not  protected.   The  soil  is 


used  primarily  for  livestock  grazing  and  wildlife  habitat.   It  is  in  the 
"Saltdesert"  range  site.   The  average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production 
is  about  650  pounds  per  acre.   The  unit  is  suitable  to  range  seeding  and 
is  a  good  source  of  topsoil. 

Map  Unit  X5  -  Northvater  loam,  5-50%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0.6  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0.6  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0.4 

This  is  a  deep  soil  located  on  mountainsides.   It  was  formed  in 
residuum  and  colluvium  derived  primarily  from  sedimentary  rock. 
Typically,  the  surface  layer  is  a  loam  about  4  in  thick.   The  underlying 
material  ranges  from  loam  to  very  channery  sandy  loam.   Fractured 
sandstone  bedrock  ranges  from  40  to  60  in.   The  pedon  is  noncalcareous 
and  neutral.   Channery  rock  fragments  range  from  5  to  85  percent  with 
amounts  increasing  with  depth.   Flagstones  exist  in  lower  horizons. 
Erosion  hazard  is  moderate  to  very  high.   The  unit  is  used  primarily  for 
livestock  grazing  and  wildlife  habitat.   It  is  classified  in  the  "Aspen" 
woodland  site.   The  average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  is 
about  2,000  pounds  per  acre. 

Map  Unit  X6  -  Irigul  channery  loam,  5-50%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0.2  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  3.4  mi. 

This  shallow  Irigul  soil  was  formed  in  residuum  derived  primarily 
from  sandstone  and  hard  shale.   It  is  located  on  upland  ridges  and 
mountainsides.   The  typical  surface  layer  is  a  channery  loam  5  in  thick. 
The  underlying  material  is  an  extremely  channery  loam.   Hard  flaggy 
sandstone  or  hard  shale  bedrock  is  at  a  depth  of  10  to  20  in.   The  pedon 
is  noncalcareous  and  mildly  alkaline.   The  content  of  channery  rock 
fragments  equals  or  exceeds  30  percent  throughout  the  profile.   Available 
water  capacity  is  very  low,  runoff  is  medium  to  rapid,  and  the  erosion 
hazard  is  very  high.   This  unit  is  used  for  limited  livestock  grazing 
and  wildlife  habitat.   The  average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production 
is  approximately  900  pounds  per  acre.   It  is  in  the  "Loamy  Slopes"  range 
site.   The  main  limitations  for  seeding  are  shallow  soil  depth  and  short 
growing  season. 


Map  Unit  X7  -  Silas  loam,  0-8%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  1.7  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  1.7  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  2.4  mi. 

This  deep  soil  is  located  on  narrow  mountain  valley  bottoms  and  was 
formed  in  mixed  alluvium.   The  typical  surface  layer  is  a  loam  about 

4  in  thick.   The  subsurface  material  ranges  from  light  loam  to  light 
sandy  clay  loam  to  a  depth  of  60  in.   The  profile  is  neutral  and  contains 

5  to  15  percent  fine  channery  rock  fragments.   Erosion  hazard  is  slight 
to  moderate.   The  unit  is  used  primarily  for  livestock  grazing,  irrigated 
hazard  pasture,  and  wildlife  habitat.   It  is  classified  in  the  "Mountain 
Swale"  range  site.   The  average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  is 
about  2,500  pounds  per  acre.   The  unit  is  suitable  for  range  seeding. 
The  main  limitation  is  a  short  growing  season. 

Map  Unit  X26  -  Razorba  channery  sandy  loam,  30-75%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0.9  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0.9  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0  mi. 

This  is  a  deep  soil  located  on  mountainsides  which  was  formed  in 
residuum  and  colluvium  derived  from  sedimentary  rock.   The  surface  layer 
is  typically  a  calcareous  channery  sandy  loam  about  9  in  thick.   The 
underlying  material,  to  a  depth  of  60  in,  is  strongly  calcareous  channery 
sandy  loam.   The  pedon  is  calcareous  to  strongly  calcareous  and  moderately 
alkaline  throughout.   The  average  coarse  fragment  content  is  from  15  to 
25  percent  (mostly  channery  rock  fragments).   The  water  erosion  hazard 
is  very  high  and  the  available  water  capacity  is  low.   The  unit  is  used 
primarily  for  livestock  grazing  and  wildlife  habitat.   It  is  classified 
in  the  "Spruce-Fir"  woodland  site.   The  average  annual  air-dry  vegetative 
production  is  about  350  pounds  per  acre. 

Map  Unit  X33  -  Uffins  loam,  0-5%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0.1  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  1.1  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0.1  mi. 

This  deep  soil  is  present  on  fans,  low  terraces,  and  narrow  valley 
bottoms.   It  was  formed  in  calcareous,  alkaline  alluvium.   The  surface 


layer  is  a  loam  about  2  in  thick.   The  underlying  material  ranges  from 
loam  to  light  clay  loam  to  60  in.   The  pedon  is  strongly  calcareous  and 
strongly  to  moderately  alkaline.   Fine  filaments  or  seams  of  calcium 
carbonate  are  common  in  root  channels  and  in  cracks  of  peds  in  a  small 
portion  of  the  lower  profile.   Permeability  is  moderately  slow,  runoff 
is  slow,  and  the  erosion  hazard  is  moderate.   The  unit  is  used  primarily 
for  livestock  grazing  and  wildlife  habitat.   It  can  be  used  for  hazard 
pasture  if  irrigated.   It  is  classified  in  the  "Alkaline  Slopes"  range 
site.   The  average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  is  about 
500  pounds  per  acre.   The  main  limitations  for  seeding  are  salinity, 
alkalinity,  and  low  precipitation.   Salt-tolerant  pasture  grasses  can  be 
grown  with  irrigation. 

Map  Unit  X38  -  Billings  silty  clay  loam,  0-5%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0  mi . 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0.1  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0.6  mi. 

This  is  a  deep  soil  located  on  floodplains,  narrow  valley  floors, 
and  terraces.   It  was  formed  in  calcareous  alluvium  derived  primarily 
from  shale.   The  surface  layer  is  a  silty  clay  loam  as  in  the  underlying 
material  to  a  depth  of  60  in.   The  pedon  is  calcareous  and  moderately 
alkaline  to  strongly  alkaline  in  the  lower  half  of  the  profile.   It  is 
non-saline  to  slightly  saline.   A  few  very  fine  filaments  and  seams  of 
gypsum  are  in  the  upper  part  of  the  profile.   Permeability  is  slow, 
runoff  is  rapid,  and  the  erosion  hazard  is  moderate  to  high.   The  unit 
is  used  primarily  for  livestock  grazing  and  irrigated  cropland.   It  is 
suited  to  range  seeding  with  the  main  limitation  being  low  precipitation. 
Alkalinity  and  slight  salinity  conditions  should  also  be  considered. 
The  unit  is  classified  in  the  "Alkaline  Slopes"  range  site.   The  average 
annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  ranges  approximately  650  pounds  per 
acre. 

Map  Unit  X39  -  Nihill  channery  sandy  loam,  5-50%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0  mi . 

-  Route  B  =  0.7  mi. 

This  Nihill  soil  is  deep  and  was  formed  in  colluvium  derived 
dominantly  from  calcareous  sedimentary  rock.   It  is  present  on  narrow 
valley  sides,  toe  slopes,  terrace  edges,  and  upland  benches.   The 


typical  surface  layer  is  a  channery  sandy  loam  5  in  thick.   The  underlying 
material  is  very  channery  sandy  loam  to  very  channery  loam  to  60  in. 
The  pedon  is  calcareous  and  moderately  to  strongly  alkaline.   Soft 
masses  of  lime  or  well  disseminated  lime  bodies  are  in  some  lower 
horizons.   The  surface  is  covered  with  5  to  10  percent  flagstones  and 
35  percent  channery  rock  fragments.   The  profile  is  35  to  45  percent 
channery  rock  fragments  and  up  to  10  to  15  percent  flagstones. 
Permeability  is  moderately  rapid  and  available  water  capacity  is  low. 
Drainage  is  somewhat  excessive  and  the  erosion  hazard  is  moderate  to 
very  high.   The  unit  is  classified  in  the  "Saltdesert  Breaks"  range 
site.   The  unit  is  used  primarily  for  livestock  grazing  and  wildlife 
habitat.   The  average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  is  about 
350  pounds  per  acre.   Reseeding  is  a  suitable  practice  as  slopes  are 
less  than  15  percent.   The  main  limitations  to  seeding  are  slope,  coarse 
fragments  on  the  surface  and  low  precipitation. 

Map  Unit  X48  Blakabin-Rhone-Waybe  complex,  5-50%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0.3  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0.3  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0  mi. 

This  unit  is  on  mountainsides  and  ridges.   The  Blakabin  soil  is 
deep  and  was  formed  in  colluvium  derived  mainly  from  sandstone  and  shale. 
The  typical  surface  layer  is  clay  loam  3  in  thick  with  the  underlying 
material  ranging  from  clay  loam  to  clay  to  a  depth  of  60  in.   The  profile 
is  weakly  to  strongly  effervescent  increasing  with  depth  and  moderately 
to  strongly  alkaline.   Visible  secondary  calcium  carbonate  is  present  in 
lower  horizons.   From  0  to  15  percent  sandstone  and  shale  channery  rock 
fragments  are  throughout  the  profile.   Permeability  is  slow  and  the 
erosion  hazard  is  high. 

The  Rhone  soil  is  deep  and  was  formed  in  colluvium  derived 
dominantly  from  sandstone  and  shale.   The  surface  layer  is  a  loam  about 
24  in  thick.   The  underlying  material  is  a  very  channery  loam  to  50 
inches.   Fractured  sandstone  ranges  from  40  to  60  in.   The  lower 
horizons  may  contain  35  to  65  percent  rock  fragments.   The  profile  is 
neutral  to  mildly  alkaline.   Erosion  hazard  is  slight  to  very  high. 

The  Waybe  soil  is  shallow  and  was  formed  in  residuum  derived 
primarily  from  interbedded  shale  and  sandstone.   The  surface  layer  is  a 


clay  loam  about  4  in  thick.   The  underlying  material  to  10  to  20  in  is 
channery  silty  clay  loam.   Bedrock  is  weathered  shale  and  sandstone. 
The  pedon  is  weakly  to  violently  effervescent  and  mildly  to  moderately 
alkaline  increasing  in  strength  with  depth.   There  are  15  to  35  percent 
sandstone  and/or  shale  channery  fragments  below  the  surface  layer. 
Permeability  is  slow  and  available  water  capacity  is  moderate  to  low. 
Runoff  is  rapid  and  erosion  hazard  is  moderate  to  very  high. 

The  unit  is  used  primarily  for  livestock  grazing  and  wildlife 
habitat.   The  average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  is  about 
2,000  pounds  per  acre.   It  is  75  percent  "Brushy  Loam"  range  site  and  25 
percent  "Dry  Exposure"  range  site.   The  main  limitations  for  seeding  are 
difficulty  of  brush  removal  and  slope. 

Map  Unit  X58-Starman-Vandamore  complex,  5-40%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  13.0  mi. 

This  unit  is  located  on  windswept  ridge  crests.   The  shallow  Starman 
part  was  formed  in  residuum  from  calcareous  sandstone  or  marlstone.   The 
upper  layer  is  a  channery  loam  about  2  in  thick.   The  underlying  layers 
are  extremely  channery  loam  to  bedrock  at  about  10  to  20  in.   The  pedon 
is  calcareous  to  strongly  calcareous  and  moderately  to  strongly  alkaline 
throughout.   Coarse  fragment  content  ranges  from  30  to  75  percent 
throughout  the  profile.   Flagstones  occur  at  the  lower  depths.   Available 
water  capacity  is  low. 

The  Vandamore  part  is  moderately  deep  and  was  formed  in  residuum 
from  calcareous  sandstone  or  marlstone.   The  surface  layer  is  channery 
and  extremely  channery  loam  about  8  in  thick.   The  underlying  layer  is  a 
channery  loam  about  17  in  thick  overlying  hard,  fractured,  fine-grained 
sandstone.   The  pedon  is  calcareous  and  moderately  alkaline  throughout. 
The  coarse  fragment  content  (primarily  channery  size)  ranges  from  25  to 
80  percent  increasing  with  depth.   Lime  occurs  in  thin  seams  and  on  rock 
fragments  in  the  lower  profile.   The  available  water  capacity  is  very 
low. 

The  unit  is  used  for  limited  grazing  and  wildlife  habitat.  It  is 
not  suited  to  seeding  due  to  soil  depth,  high  winds,  and  wind  erosion. 
It  is  classed  in  the  "Dry  Exposure"  range  site. 


Map  Unit  X64-Blazon,  moist-Rentsac  complex,  8-65%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0.5  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0.5  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0  mi. 

This  unit  is  located  on  the  sides  of  foothills  and  ridges.   The 
Blazon  part  is  shallow  and  was  formed  in  residuum  derived  primarily  from 
shale.   The  surface  layer  is  a  channery  loam  about  4  in  thick.   The 
underlying  material  ranges  from  channery  clay  loam  to  very  shaly,  clay 
loam.   Depth  to  weathered  shale  ranges  from  10  to  20  in.   The  profile  is 
calcareous  and  moderately  alkaline.   Coarse  fragments  make  up  to  15  to 
25  percent  of  the  A  horizon  and  35  to  50  percent  of  the  underlying 
material.   Permeability  is  moderately  slow  and  available  water  capacity 
is  low.   Runoff  is  rapid  and  the  erosion  hazard  is  moderate  to  very 
high. 

The  shallow  Rentsac  soil  was  formed  in  residuum  derived  primarily 
from  sandstone.   The  surface  layer  is  a  channery  loam  5  in  thick.  The 
underlying  material  ranges  from  channery  light  loam  to  extremely  flaggy 
light  loam.   Depth  to  hard  sandstone  ranges  from  10  to  20  in.   The  pedon 
is  slightly  to  strongly  calcareous  and  moderately  alkaline.   The  A  horizon 
is  20  to  35  percent  small  rock  fragments.   Percentages  and  size  of 
fragments  increase  with  depth.   Permeability  is  moderately  rapid  and 
available  water  capacity  is  low.   Runoff  is  rapid  and  the  erosion  hazard 
is  moderate  to  very  high. 

The  unit  is  used  primarily  for  livestock  grazing  and  wildlife 
habitat.   The  average  potential  production  of  native  understory 
vegetation  (air-dry)  is  about  550  pounds  per  acre.   This  unit  is 
classified  in  the  "Pinyon- Juniper"  woodland  site. 

Map  Unit  X66-Rentsac-Moyerson-Rock  Outcrop  complex,  5-65%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  7.1  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  6.4  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  5.1  mi. 

This  unit  is  located  on  foothills,  ridges,  and  entrenched  sides  of 
uplands.   The  shallow  Rentsac  soil  was  formed  in  residuum  derived 
predominantly  from  sandstone  or  hard  shale.   The  surface  layer  is  a 
channery  loam  5  in  thick.   The  underlying  material,  to  a  depth  of  16  in, 


ranges  from  very  channery  light  loam  to  extremely  flaggy  light  loam. 
Depth  to  bedrock  ranges  from  10  to  20  in.  The  pedon  is  slightly  to 
strongly  calcareous  and  moderately  alkaline.  The  A  horizon  is  20  to 
35  percent  small  rock  fragments.  Percentages  and  size  of  fragments 
increase  with  depth.  Permeability  is  moderately  rapid  and  the  available 
water  capacity  is  very  low.  The  erosion  hazard  is  moderate  to  very 
high. 

The  Moyerson  part  is  shallow  and  was  formed  in  residuum  derived 
dominantly  from  shale  and  interbedded  sandstone.   The  surface  layer  is  a 
stoney  clay  loam  about  2  in  thick.   The  underlying  material  ranges  from 
clay  loam  to  clay.   Depth  to  shale  ranges  from  10  to  20  in.   The  pedon 
is  moderately  to  strongly  alkaline  and  calcareous  throughout. 
Permeability  is  slow  and  available  water  capacity  is  low.   Runoff  is 
medium  to  rapid  and  the  erosion  hazard  is  very  high. 

The  Rock  Outcrop  portion  consists  of  ridge  caps,  ridge  points,  and 
long  vertical  bluffs.  Small  amounts  of  soil  material  may  be  located  in 
crevices  and  at  the  base  of  slopes. 

The  unit  is  used  primarily  for  livestock  grazing  woodland,  and 
wildlife  habitat.   The  potential  native  understory  vegetative  production 
(air-dry)  is  about  600  pounds  per  acre.   Range  seeding  is  not  advisable 
due  to  surface  stones,  slope,  low  precipitation,  and  shallow  rooting 
depth.   The  Rentsac  soil  is  in  the  "Pinyon-Juniper"  woodland  site  and 
the  Moyerson  soil  is  in  the  "Clayey  Slopes"  range  site. 

Map  Unit  X89-Cliff down-Cliff down  varient  complex,  5-65%  slopes 

-  Route  A  =  0.1  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0.2  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0.2  mi. 

This  map  unit  is  located  on  sides  of  terraces.   The  Cliff down  soil 
is  deep  and  was  formed  in  calcareous  coarse-textured  gravelly  and  cobbly 
outwash  and  river  deposits  derived  primarily  from  mixed  sources.   The 
typical  surface  layer  is  5  in  of  gravelly  loam.  The  underlying  material 
to  a  depth  of  60  in  is  mainly  calcareous  very  gravelly  sandy  loam.   The 
pedon  is  calcareous  and  moderately  to  strongly  alkaline.   Lime  coatings 
are  present  on  undersides  of  subsurface  rock  fragments.   The  profile 
contains  salts  in  variable  amounts  and  distribution.   Coarse  fragment 


content  ranges  from  20  to  70  percent,   increasing  with  depth. 
Permeability  is  moderately  rapid  and  available  water  capacity  is  very 
low.   Drainage  is  somewhat  excessive,  and  the  erosion  hazard  is  slight 
to  moderate. 

The  Cliffdown  varient  part  is  moderately  deep  and  was  formed  in 
calcareous  gravelly  cobbly  outwash  derived  primarily  from  mixed  sources. 
The  surface  layer  is  a  very  cobbly  loam  about  5  in  thick.   The  subsurface 
material  to  a  depth  of  24  in  ranges  from  very  gravelly  loam  to  gravelly 
clay  loam.   Depth  to  weathered  shale  is  from  20  to  40  in.   The  pedon  can 
range  from  calcareous-moderately  alkaline  to  calcareous-strongly  alkaline. 
There  is  a  moderate  to  high  percentage  of  coarse  fragments  in  the  soil. 
Permeability  is  moderate  to  very  slow  and  available  water  capacity  is 
very  low.   Drainage  is  somewhat  excessive  and  runoff  is  rapid.   The 
erosion  hazard  is  moderate  to  high. 

The  unit  is  used  primarily  for  livestock  grazing  and  wildlife  habitat. 
The  average  annual  production  of  air-dry  vegetation  is  about  350  pounds 
per  acre.   The  unit  is  in  the  "Saltdesert  Breaks"  range  site. 

Map  Unit  BL-Badlands ,  (10-65%  Slopes) 

-  Route  A  =  0.1  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0.5  mi. 

-  Toute  B  =  0.7  mi. 

This  map  unit  is  located  on  rolling  to  very  steep,  nearly  barren 
mountainsides,  low  hills,  ridgetops,  and  canyonsides.   It  was  formed  in 
residuum  derived  primarily  from  highly  calcareous  and  gypsiferous  shale 
and  bentonite  deposits.   Soils  present  are  very  shallow  and  have  no 
significant  characteristics.   Permeability  is  very  slow  and  available 
water  capacity  is  very  low.   Runoff  is  very  rapid  and  the  erosion  hazard 
is  very  high.   Use  of  the  unit  is  very  limited. 

Map  Unit  RT-Torriorthents-Rock  Outcrop  complex,  15-90°/o  Slopes 

-  Route  A  =  2.3  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  2.4  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  2.9  mi. 

This  unit  is  present  on  steep,  primarily  south-facing  slopes  of 
mountains,  hills,  ridges,  and  canyonsides  in  extremely  rough  and  eroded 
areas.   The  very  shallow  to  moderately  deep  torriorthents  soil  was  formed 


in  residuum  and  colluvium  derived  mainly  from  sandstone,  shale,  limestone, 
or  siltstone.   In  a  representative  profile,  the  surface  layer  is  a  channery 
loam  about  3  in  thick.   The  underlying  material  ranges  from  fine  sandy 
loam  to  very  channery  loam.   Shale  or  sandstone  bedrock  is  at  16  in. 
Available  water  capacity  is  very  low,  runoff  is  rapid,  and  the  water 
erosion  hazard  is  very  high. 

The  rock  outcrop  part  consists  of  barren  escarpments,  ridge  caps 
and  rock  points  of  sandstone,  shale,  limestone,  or  siltstone. 

The  unit  is  used  primarily  for  wildlife  habitat  and  limited 
livestock  grazing.   The  average  annual  air-dry  vegetative  production  is 
about  100  pounds  per  acre.   The  unit  is  classified  in  the  "Stony 
Foothills"  range  site. 

Map  Unit  RG  -  Torrif luvents ,  gullied  (0-5%  slopes) 

-  Route  A=  1.7  mi . 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  1.7  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0.1  mi. 

The  Torrif  luvents  soils  is  moderately  deep  to  deep  and  was  formed 
in  highly  calcareous  and  gypsiferous,  mixed,  stratified  sandy,  loamy, 
and  clayey  alluvium  derived  predominantly  from  sandstone  and  shale.   The 
unit  is  located  on  nearly  level  to  sloping  areas  along  drainageways  of 
narrow  valley  bottoms,  swales,  and  eroded  fans.   Permeability  of  the 
Torrif luvents  soil  is  moderately  rapid  to  slow  and  drainage  is  somewhat 
excessive.   Runoff  is  rapid  and  the  erosion  hazard  is  very  high.   This 
nearly  barren  unit  has  very  little  value  for  livestock  grazing  or 
wildlife  habitat. 

Map  Unit  RO  -  Rock  Outcrop  (50-100%  slopes) 

-  Route  A  =  0  mi. 

-  Route  A  with  deviation  =  0.3  mi. 

-  Route  B  =  0.4  mi. 

This  unit  is  located  on  very  steep  and  extremely  steep  mountains, 
canyons,  ridges,  hills,  and  upland  breaks.   It  is  composed  of  barren 
exposures  of  sandstone,  hard  shale,  siltstone,  or  limestone.   The  unit 
is  90  percent  or  more  exposed  bedrock.   Some  soil  material  is  present  in 
crevices  and  at  the  base  of  slopes  are  accumulations  of  boulders  and 
stones.   Use  of  the  unit  is  limited,  though  some  wildlife  use  these  areas 
for  shelter  and  cover. 


Garfield  County 

Range  Site  228  -  Mountain  Loam 

This  site  is  located  mainly  on  alluvial  -  colluvial  slopes, 
terraces,  fans  or  valley  positions.   Slopes  range  from  5  to  10  percent, 
but  can  reach  30  to  40  percent.   Grass  accounts  for  most  of  the 
vegetative  cover.   The  soils  are  fairly  deep,  have  good  water  holding 
capacity,  are  moderately  fine  to  moderately  coarse-textured.   Many  soils 
are  somewhat  gravelly  to  stoney.   A  large  percent  of  the  soil  moisture 
is  available  for  plant  growth.   The  site  has  a  high  value  for  livestock 
grazing  and  big  game  habitat.   The  average  annual  production  of  air-dry 
vegetation  in  median  years  is  1,500  pounds  per  acre.   Soils  of  this  site 
are : 


Blevington  sandy  loam 
Buffmeysi  sandy  loam 
Carpening  fine  sandy  loam 
Costner  fine  sandy  loam 
Duffoon  loam 
Gelkre  sandy  loam 
Keyor  gravelly  sandy  loam 
Leavitt  loam 


Lucky  gravelly  sandy  loam 
Marop  stony  loam 
Mirack  fine  sandy  loam 
Marghcuse  stony  loam 
Owen  Creek  sandy  loam 
Parlin  channery  loam 
Splitro  loam 


Range  Site  238  -  Brushy  loam 

This  site  is  located  on  gently  rolling  to  steep  upland  slopes. 
Slopes  for  this  site  range  from  3  to  65  percent.   The  potential  native 
vegetative  community  is  shrub  dominated.   The  soils  are  sandy  loam  to 
light  clay  loam  acid  surface  soil  to  20  in  thick.   The  subsoil  is  clay 
loam  to  light  clay  from  1  to  4  ft  thick.   It  is  moderately  permeable  and 
the  lime  zone  is  deep.   Stones  and  cobbles  may  occur  throughout  the 
profile.   The  soil  is  very  favorable  for  plant  growth.   This  site  has 
medium  to  high  values  for  livestock  grazing  and  wildlife  habitat.   The 
average  annual  production  of  air-dry  vegetation  in  median  years  is 
1,000  pounds  per  acre.   Soils  in  this  site  are  Rico  loan  and  Routt  loam. 


SOIL  MAPPING  UNIT  DESCRIPTIONS  FOR 
LA  SAL  ALTERNATIVES 

03C  -  Rivra  -  Rivra  Variant  -  Bitton  association,  0  to  15 
percent  slopes. 

These  are  deep,  level  to  moderately  sloping  soils  forming  in 
gravelly  alluvium  in  drainages  and  on  fans  in  the  Clear  Creek 
valley.   They  are  highly  permeable  and  typically  contain  35 
to  80  percent  rock  fragments.   Rivra  and  Rivra  Variant  soils 
occur  adjacent  to  Clear  Creek,  and  are  formed  in  alluvium. 
Bitton  soils  occur  on  alluvial  fans,  and  are  formed  from  local 
alluvium  from  slopewash  and  colluvium.   These  soils  receive 
about  14  in  of  precipitation  annually.   The  growing  season 
is  about  90  days  in  length. 

05C  -  Glendive  -  Havre  -  Nihill  Variant  association,  2  to  8 
percent  slopes. 

These  are  deep,  well  drained,  nearly  level  to  moderately  sloping 
soils  that  occur  along  Piceance  Creek  and  associate  side  drainages 
Glendive  soils  are  coarse-textured  (sandy)  and  rapidly  permeable. 
They  formed  in  streamlain  alluvium  along  the  drainageway.   Havre 
soils  occur  adjacent  to  Glendive  soils.   They  are  also  formed 
from  streamlain  alluvium,  but  are  loamy  and  moderately  permeable. 
Nihill  Variant  soils  occur  in  alluvial  fan  positions  below 
sideslopes,  and  contain  about  60  percent  sandstone  rock  fragments. 
These  soils  receive  about  14  in  of  precipitation  annually  and 
have  a  growing  season  of  90  to  100  days. 

12F  -  Lolo  -  Grobutte  association,  40  to  75  percent  slopes. 

These  are  deep,  well  drained,  steeply  sloping  soils  formed 
on  talus  sideslopes  along  Clear  Creek.   They  typically  contain 
about  80  percent  rock  fragments  and  are  rapidly  permeable. 
Slope  stability  is  a  potential  hazard  with  this  unit  because 
of  its  steepness  and  lack  of  cohesion  inherent  to  the  soils. 
This  mapping  unit  receives  14  to  16  in  of  precipitation  annually. 
The  growing  season  is  about  95  days. 

15  -  Starman  -  Rock  Outcrop  -  Irigul  complex,  20  to  80  percent 
slopes. 

This  unit  consists  of  shallow,  excessively  drained  soils  with 
rock  outcrop  on  steep  and  very  steep  slopes.   Both  Starman 
and  Irigul  soils  contain  about  60  percent  rock  fragments  and 
are  less  than  20  in  deep  over  bedrock.   This  unit  occurs  about 
elevations  of  about  7,400  ft.   These  soils  receive  18  to  20 
in  of  precipitation  annually,  with  a  growing  season  of  about 
80  days. 


40  -  Parachute  -  Dateman  Complex,  5  to  15  percent  slopes. 

These  are  moderately  deep,  gently  sloping  to  moderately  steep 
soils  that  form  on  flat  ridgetops  above  about  8,000  ft.   Parachute 
and  Dateman  soils  are  20  to  40  in  deep  over  bedrock  and  contain 
about  50  percent  rock  fragments  below  a  depth  of  about  10  in. 
Both  soils  have  thick,  organic-enriched,  loamy  surface  layers. 
The  mean  annual  precipitation  is  18  to  20  in  and  the  growing 
season  is  about  80  days. 

43  -  Parachute  -  Dateman  -  Irigul  complex,  15  to  50  percent 
slopes. 

These  are  shallow  and  moderately  deep  soils  that  occur  on  steep 
sideslopes  above  an  elevation  of  about  7,500  ft.   Parachute 
and  Dateman  soils  are  20  to  40  in  deep  over  bedrock.   Irigul 
soils  are  typically  10  to  15  in  deep  to  bedrock.   All  three 
soils  contain  50  to  75  percent  rock  fragments.   The  mean  annual 
precipitation  is  18  to  20  in  and  the  growing  season  is  about 
80  days. 

55  -  Rhone  -  Northwater  -  Silas  Variant  association,  3  to 
60  percent  slopes. 

These  are  deep,  loamy,  organic-enriched  soils  that  formed  in 
swales  and  on  north-  and  east-facing  slopes  at  elevtations 
of  about  7,600  ft.   Rhone  soils  are  50  to  60  in  deep  over  bedrock 
and  are  loamy  throughout.   They  occur  on  steep  slopes  under 
both  aspen  and  mountain  brush  vegetation.   Northwater  soils 
also  occur  on  steep  slopes  under  aspen.   These  soils  are  loamy 
to  a  depth  of  about  24  in.   Below  this  depth,  Northwater  soils 
contain  about  50  percent  rock  fragments;  depth  to  bedrock  is 
50  to  60  in.   Silas  Variant  soils  occur  in  swales  and  are  loamy 
throughout.   In  some  areas,  Silas  Variant  soils  are  influenced 
by  a  water  table  at  depth  of  about  36  in.   Silas  Variant  soils 
are  over  60  in  deep  to  bedrock.   The  mean  annual  precipitation 
is  18  to  20  in  and  the  growing  season  is  about  80  days. 

60  -  Veatch  -  Work  complex,  5  to  15  percent  slopes. 

These  are  moderately  deep  and  deep  soils  that  occur  north  of 

Piceance  Creek.   Veatch  soils  are  20  to  40  in  deep  over  bedrock 

and  are  loamy  throughout.   Work  soils  are  40  to  60  in  deep 

over  bedrock  and  have  clayey  subsoils.   The  mean  annual  precipitation 

is  about  14  in  and  the  growing  season  is  90  to  100  days. 

66  -  Rentsac  -  Redcreek  -  Castner  complex,  5  to  50  percent 
slopes . 

These  are  shallow,  somewhat  excessively  drained  soils  that 
occur  on  ridges  near  Piceance  Creek.   All  three  soils  are  less 
than  20  in  deep  over  bedrock,  and  contain  about  50  percent 


rock  fragments.   This  unit  occurs  on  both  flat  ridgetops  and 
steep  sideslopes  at  elevations  below  about  7,400  ft.   They 
receive  about  14  in  of  precipitation  annually.   The  growing 
season  is  about  90  to  100  days. 

70  -  Camborthids  -  Haplargids  complex,  5  to  15  percent  slopes. 

These  are  moderately  deep  and  deep  soils  that  occur  on  flatter 
ridgetops  near  Piceance  Creek.   They  are  loamy  to  somewhat 
sandy  in  texture  and  range  in  depth  from  about  30  to  50  in 
over  bedrock.   These  soils  receive  about  14  in  of  precipitation 
annually.   The  growing  season  is  90  to  100  days. 

RT  -  Rock  Outcrop  -  Torriorthents  complex,  25  to  75  percent 
slopes . 

This  unit  consists  of  steep  rock  outcrops  and  shallow  rocky 
soils  on  ridge  sideslopes  below  an  elevation  of  about  7,400  ft. 


APPENDIX  B 

CULTURAL  RESOURCE  SITES  ALONG  PIPELINE 
ROUTES  A  AND  B  TO  RANGELY 


11 


UJ 

Q 

C 
-X. 


«»- 

o 

+J 

■M 

+* 

■M 

4-> 

+J> 

■M 

■M 

+J 

u 

a 

u 

u 

U 

u 

U 

U 

a>  u 

4-* 

<u 

at 

at 

at 

01 

at 

+-> 

at 

9 

c-  «o 

U 

i_ 

S- 

4- 

i. 

$- 

s. 

o 

.  s_ 

i- 

3    O. 

<u 

•r* 

■p* 

•pw 

•fM 

•r- 

•r* 

at 

•r* 

•*• 

+■»   E 

%m 

TO 

"O 

TO 

-a 

"O 

T3 

$- 

TO 

•a 

<tj  »— < 

•r« 

C 

c 

C 

e 

c 

C 

•  r— 

C 

c 

z 

Q 
<U 

01 

1— 1 

»—• 

•— i 

»-H 

»-* 

a 

►-< 

»-H 

</> 

■M 

+-» 

TJ    3 

<d 

ItS 

C  -M 

> 

> 

H3      <TJ 

•r- 

■r" 

s: 

S£ 

s: 

s: 

3: 

z: 

S 

5 

_l  +-> 

J- 

s. 

_j 

_i 

_i 

_j 

_ i 

_j 

_J 

CO 

o. 

Q- 

ca 

GO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

ca 

CO 

CO 

l/l 

01 

01 

at 

at 

at 

c 

JZ 

JC 

sz 

jz 

jz 

o 

•»-» 

■M 

■M 

■M 

■p 

•r- 

at 

at 

+J 

o 

JO    O 

O 

O 

JO 

o 

(O 

■M 

•M 

•M 

■»-> 

■•-» 

TO 

O 

o 

C 

(U 

4->  at 

at 

at 

+j 

at 

<u 

pM 

r-M 

pM 

pm 

r— 

E 

jo 

>>-J0 

JO 

JO 

>>J3 

E 

•r- 

Q. 

r-"  •!■* 

•r» 

a. 

•r-  i 

ex. 

. 

|^ 

•r- 

o 

o>x 

a  cio. 

OtD= 

en  or 

at 

cna. 

cj 

•^» 

q: 

^c  f- 

s: 

•f~ 

CC 

•f— 

cc 

j£ 

•i~ 

3C 

o> 

fBM 

z 

■f«  r~ ■ 

cc 

pM 

z 

jmm 

z 

•r* 

r~" 

Q£ 

cc 

LU 

_l  LU 

z 

Ul 

LU 

JiiiZ 

s- 

at 

TO 

s- 

SC 

o 
u 

g 

^ 

°3 

a> 

O 

O 

or 

3 

3 

C3 

o 
cc 


uj 


CD 

z 
o 

_l 


<TJ  -M 

S-     ITS 
3  -i- 

4->  i— 

3  «+- 

O  it- 


at 

Q. 


C 

o 

E 
at 

s_ 


f    E 
S-    ITJ 

<  CJ 

^  c 

u  at 

O    Q. 
OC  O 


c 
2 
o 

c 


c 
o 


c 
at 
a. 
o 


+-> 

s- 
<C 

-^ 
u 
o 
ce 


s. 

O 
O 

CC 


at 


s- 
<C 

o 

o 

CC 


< 

o 
o 

OC 


o 
o? 


at 

j= 
to 

o  at 


o 
o: 

c 

UJ 


ca 


<T3 

o 


2LO 

O  m 
«— t  vo 
CC  CO 


3 

o 
o 

CC  CVJ 


2 
o 
o 
1-1 T3- 

CC  CM 


2  2 

o  o 

o  o 

iHin  t— t  in 

an  ac  i-h 


2 
o 
o 

«— •  yo 
CC  i-H 


2 
o 
o 

i— I  vo 
CC  i-h 


o  "^ 
o     • 

»— t  (JO 
CC   r-" 


2«-« 

O 
O     » 

c-H  IQ 

CC  rH 


2 
O 

o 
cc  co 


V)    O 

co  ai 

H-  CO 


co  at 
I—  CO 


</v    (J 

co  a» 
J—  co 


co  a> 
•—  co 


co  at 
y—  co 


io  a 
en  a> 
l—  co 


co  a> 
h-  co 


co  a 

I—  CO 


CO     O 

co  a> 
j—  co 


to  <j 
co  at 
H-  co 


—>  at 

^  r-- 


o> 

c 

C 

e 

<9 

•r* 

•r— 

s_ 

JO 

JO 

T3 

ITS 

(0 

<TJ 

o 

o 

3 

-C 

J= 

cr 

^C 

(J 

-^  <_) 

u 

F~ 

O  f— 

* 

IT] 

3 

<TJ    3 

CO 

r— 

CD 

r-  CO 

• 

CO 

CO 

r^. 

f^ 

CO 

s_ 

o 

o 

at 

VO 

vo 

JO 

l-H 

r— • 

E 

CO 

CO 

3 

CC 

CC 

Z 

LO 

LO 

at 


at 


•I— 

•r~ 

•r" 

•r— 

•r- 

o 

o 

JO 

JO 

JO 

JO 

JO 

>> 

>> 

R) 

(TJ 

to 

•TJ 

tO 

o 

o 

C_> 

O 

u 

o 

o 

c_> 

C_) 

J= 

j= 

j= 

j= 

jz 

-ii    u 

j^: 

u 

^f 

a 

-^ 

u 

J^ 

o 

at 

2 

at  2 

a  r- 

u 

1—^ 

u 

*— 

u 

r— • 

o 

#— 

+j 

03 

4->     03 

(T3    3 

<a 

3 

<d 

3 

fO 

3 

to 

3 

•r— 

S- 

•r-    S_ 

•—  CO 

CO 

r— 

O 

r— 

CO 

r— • 

CO 

J=  c 

J=  Q 

CO 

CO 

CO 

co 

CO 

■"* 

J* 

LO 

<T» 

in 

r- 

o 

1— 1 

»— i 

VO 

CVJ 

*«■ 

CVJ 

in 

in 

O 

C\J 

CO 

C\J 

CO 

cm 

CO 

cr> 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CQ 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CC 

CC 

CC 

CC 

C£ 

cc 

cc 

en 

in 

in 

in 

in 

in 

in 

at 
o 
o 

CJ 

at  2 

4J     (TJ 
•r-    i» 

JO  Q 


CO 
CVJ 
CVJ 

co 
cc 
in 


B-l 


12 


4-> 

u 

o 

. 

o  • 

u 

<U     U 

4J 

4-> 

01 

01 

•M 

4-> 

+J 

■»-> 

01 

01 

4-> 

4-> 

J-    (O 

O 

u 

i- 

h 

u 

u 

a 

U 

u 

k 

a 

u 

a  a. 

01 

CU 

•r» 

•?— 

01 

01 

01 

01 

•f— 

•t~ 

0) 

ai 

♦->   E 

s. 

i_ 

T3 

T3 

E 

u 

i_ 

u 

-o 

TO 

U 

s- 

<o  •— < 

■p* 

•t— 

C 

C 

•r~ 

•r- 

•r- 

•t— 

c 

C 

•r— 

•»— 

Q        i — i        ►— • 


•a   3 
c  *-> 

00 


CO 


ca 


CO 


CO 


ai 
+-» 

> 

•r" 

a. 


CO 


ca 


ca 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


«/» 

c 

o 

•r- 

01 

01 

01 

01 

<D 

0) 

a> 

ai 

ai 

4-» 

JO 

JQ 

r— 

r— 

JO 

JO 

JO 

JO 

J0 

«o 

JO 

JO 

T3 

o  cu 

o  <u 

•»• 

•r" 

o 

O) 

o  a» 

O    CU 

O    0) 

o  a> 

C 

+->  f— 

4->  r— 

cn 

Cn 

■4-» 

r— 

0)° 

-r->  r— 

4->  r— 

■M  i— 

•»->  r— 

CU 

J3 

J3 

•r— 

*r> 

JO 

,— 

JO 

JO 

JO 

JO 

E 

>»-r~ 

>V 

r— 

r— 

>> 

•r" 

JO 

>>•■- 

•  >%"- 

>>T- 

>>•»- 

E 

r—    cn 

r—    Cn 

UU 

LU 

CO 

•T— 

.—  o> 

f—    CO 

r—  en 

•—  cn 

O 

<U   H- 

<U    M- 

<u 

•t— 

co 

a>  t- 

<u  -t- 

0)  -r- 

<u  ••- 

Q 

CO 

u 

-i£  r— 

-*  r— 

■M 

■M 

j* 

r— 

•T™ 

it  i — 

J*  i— 

J*.     T— 

J*  1— 

3: 

a: 

0) 

•t-  LU 

•i-  LU 

O 

O 

•t— 

LU 

f— 

•r-  LU 

•r-  LU 

•r-   LU 

•r-  LU 

a. 

a. 

Ql 

-J 

_l 

SI 

z 

— 1 

LU 

-j 

_l 

-J 

-J 

o 

o 

s. 

(U 

■o 

^ 

5-C 

s- 

< 

<c 

<t: 

«c 

<: 

<c 

< 

< 

< 

•a: 

o 

o3 

o3 

a. 

a. 

a. 

CL 

a. 

a. 

Q_ 

a. 

a. 

CL. 

o 

O 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

O 

o 

o 

o 

O) 

ts 

CO 

a: 

c 

o 

f-" 

•^ 

<TJ 

-M 

*— "% 

s- 

<a 

•o 

3 

"c- 

+-> 

4-» 

r— 

c 

jam 

•f» 

o 

3  «*- 

o 

cj  »+- 

»-^ 

< 

T-l 

1 

-C 

•r-    Q. 

JS 

j= 

JZ 

jr 

-C 

J= 

J= 

LU 

^M 

Q. 

J=   E 

a. 

a. 

CL 

a. 

a. 

a. 

J= 

a. 

—1 

01 

+j 

>> 

oj  !X3 

>» 

>> 

<T3 

<a 

t> 

>» 

-t-J 

>> 

CO 

J= 

s_ 

S_  CJ 

S- 

i- 

&. 

r^ 

•f^ 

<c 

01 

to 

< 

'a) 

a. 

Ol 

a> 

cn 

co 

C7> 

cn 

-J 

cn 

1— 

CL 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

>> 

J* 

i- 

J^ 

i- 

C  «r- 

s_ 

s. 

■M 

■M 

4-> 

s. 

c 

j- 

1— 

o 

(!) 

u 

+-> 

<u  s- 

+J 

+-> 

U 

u 

o 

4-> 

a 

4-> 

o 

+J 

o 

0) 

a.  o 

0) 

a; 

•^ 

•fw 

•jm 

0) 

to. 

01 

or 

CC 

2 

Q- 

3 

a. 

3 

a. 

2 

Q. 

2 

a. 

2 

2 

o 

2 

a. 
2 

c 

o 

o 

i-H 

t— i 

t-H 

t— i 

t— • 

r-t 

i— i 

t— i 

T— 1 

T-H 

o 

o 

o 

o 

O 

o 

O 

o 

O 

O 

o 

o 

o 

■fM 

t— < 

t— 1 

T-H 

U3 

<— i  in 

i-H 

to 

T—t 

to 

.— I 

CVJ 

T-H 

OJ 

t-H 

CM 

f— I 

CM 

l-H 

CM 

t-H  CM 

«3 

CC  CO 

CC 

CO 

CC 

CO 

CC  CO 

CC  CsJ 

CC 

C\J 

CC 

Csi 

CC 

CM 

CC 

CM 

CC 

CM 

CC 

CM 

CC  CM 

U 

o 

I/) 

U 

(/» 

a 

to 

O 

iA    CJ 

in 

u 

to 

O 

tS> 

(J 

to 

U 

to 

O 

to 

CJ 

to 

(J 

to    O 

_J 

cn 

a> 

CO 

a; 

C\J 

a> 

CNJ    QJ 

CVJ 

OJ 

CVJ 

<u 

C\J 

a> 

CM 

a> 

CM 

<u 

CM 

a> 

CM 

OJ 

CM    CO 

1—  CO 

1— 

CO 

H- 

CO 

t—  CO 

H-  CO 

y— 

CO 

1—  to 

1— 

CO 

f— 

CO 

»— 

CO 

r— 

CO 

\—  CO 

<u 


cn 

01 

01 

<u 

cu 

CU 

cu 

cu 

01 

cu 

CU 

cu 

CU 

c 

■M 

+-> 

+J 

4-> 

J-> 

4-> 

■M 

+-> 

4-> 

■M 

+-> 

4-> 

(O 

O 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

O 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

i- 

>> 

>> 

5^ 

>1 

>» 

>> 

>. 

>> 

>> 

>> 

>> 

>» 

T3 

o 

o 

O 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

3 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

o 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

01 

2 

ai 

2 

cu 

2 

cu 

2 

cu 

2 

cu 

2 

cu 

2 

cu 

2 

cu 

2 

cu 

2 

cu 

2 

CU   2 

4-» 

<a 

4-» 

<o 

■T-J 

<a 

*-> 

<o 

•M 

<a 

4-> 

<o 

4-> 

<o 

+-> 

<o 

+-> 

to 

J-> 

fO 

■*-) 

<o 

+■>    fO 

• 

•T" 

s. 

■f* 

•~ 

■*— 

i_ 

•  T— 

s_ 

IfM 

&- 

•fm 

*— 

•f" 

S- 

•r— 

w 

•f— 

$_ 

•T— 

S- 

•r" 

s_ 

•i-    S- 

LO 

J=  Q 

J=  Q 

J= 

a 

J= 

o 

JT 

o 

jr 

o 

JC  o 

j:  q 

x: 

Q 

J= 

o 

JC 

o 

JC  o 

• 

3 

3 

3; 

3 

3 

3 

*j; 

3; 

3 

~T 

3 

3 

r«. 

CO 

s_ 

O 

T-H 

T— 1 

cn 

O 

r^ 

in 

to 

CO 

«*• 

CO 

to 

0) 

o 

in 

^r 

m 

«3" 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

r«. 

«3- 

J3 

cn 

CM 

CO 

T-H 

co 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

«3" 

^3" 

E 

CO 

CO 

ca 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

ca 

CO 

3 

CC 

CC 

CC 

CC 

CC 

CC 

CC 

CC 

CC 

CC 

CC 

CC 

Z 

LO 

LO 

in 

in 

in 

in 

in 

in 

in 

in 

in 

in 

B-2 


13 


«•- 

* 

o 

••-> 

+J 

+J 

U 

u 

oi  u 

4-» 

■M 

+-> 

4-» 

ts 

4-> 

■M 

■M 

co 

co 

l,  <o 

o 

O 

O 

O 

o 

u 

U 

J- 

s- 

3    CL 

a 

<U 

a> 

co 

at 

co 

co 

co 

•r~ 

•t— 

4->    E 

s- 

J- 

s- 

V. 

s. 

s- 

j_ 

s- 

-o 

T3 

«a  •— • 

•r* 

•r" 

T~ 

•T— 

•r- 

•r- 

•r~ 

•r- 

c 

C 

C  -t-> 

<a  to 

_i  +-> 
to 


CXI 


CO 


CO 


CO 


en 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


1 

c 

(/» 

• 

a> 

C 

| 

o 

o 

4-> 

Q 

es 

a 

a 

Q 

a 

Q 

a 

a 

a 

o 

<TJ 

ac 

a: 

zc 

3: 

n: 

:e 

rc 

3C 

:c 

3= 

co  -o 

Cu 

a. 

a. 

a. 

CL 

a. 

a. 

a. 

CL 

CL 

ex 

i- 

a> 
■a 

s_ 
o 
u 

CO 

CC 

c 
o 

O 

<£ 

a. 
o 

< 

CL 

o 

o 

CL 

O 

_1 

.  o 

a. 
O 

_i 

< 
a. 
o 

c_> 

a. 
o 

o 

CL 
O 

a. 
o 

CL 

o 

-J 

CL 

o 

-J 

f^» 

•r- 

ITS 

■M 

«•— ^ 

s_ 

to 

T3 

3 

•t~ 

+J 

■l-> 

t— 

C 

|W 

•r" 

o 

•  3 

«+- 

CJ 

O  «4- 

— ' 

<c 

i 

, 

i 

i-H 

</> 

V) 

">^ 

a 

to 

U 

•c— 

a. 

jz 

■fa 

Q-JC 

•^ 

•f~ 

a. 

-C 

JC 

JS 

•r- 

JZ 

UJ 

JC 

E 

a. 

JC 

E 

a. 

-o 

i- 

js 

E 

a. 

a. 

CL 

■a 

SL 

CL 

—J 

CO 

<o 

(O 

CO 

03 

(O 

CO 

o 

CO 

<a 

>* 

>» 

>> 

CO 

O 

>» 

CO 

i-  o 

s_ 

s_ 

<-J> 

s_ 

i_ 

+j 

s-  o 

s- 

4-» 

JC 

<c 

CO 

a. 

co 

o_ 

cr> 

CO 

v> 

a. 

CT> 

Cl 

cn 

co 

to 

Q. 

»— 

CL 

o 

o 

O 

O 

+J 

•p" 

u 

O 

o 

o 

■M 

•i— 

o 

>> 

c 

•?- 

+J 

c 

-r— 

S- 

fmm 

JC 

a. 

c 

«*— 

S- 

i_ 

S- 

r- 

J= 

a. 

i_ 

P 

a> 

£_ 

a 

CO 

s_ 

■+-> 

<u 

CO 

E 

CO 

s- 

4-> 

-M 

-t-> 

CO 

CO 

E 

+J 

a.  o 

•p" 

a.  o 

<u 

JC 

i_ 

UJ 

a.  a 

CO 

CO 

CO 

SI 

s_ 

<T3 

CO 

o 

+■> 

a. 

o  -t->  a. 

CO 

o.  <_> 

o 

■M 

Q_ 

a. 

CL 

CO 

a.  c_> 

CL 

2 

2 

3 

2 

2 

2 

3 

2 

2 

2 

C 

«— « 

r-t 

«— i 

t— i 

t— • 

t— t 

t— i 

i-H 

t— i 

i— 1 

o 

o 

O 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

O 

o 

o 

«r~ 

»— 1 

CM 

i— 1 

CM 

f— t 

CM 

t— 1 

in 

i-H 

CO 

1— 1 

to 

<-H 

«— 1 

«-H 

r-t 

u 

CC 

CM 

CC  CM 

CC 

CM 

CC 

t— t 

CC 

i— « 

CC 

1— 1 

o:  ct\ 

CC 

cn 

CC 

CJ% 

cc  a» 

o 

to 

o 

to 

O 

10 

U 

10 

u 

to 

o 

to 

a 

io 

o 

to 

u 

I/) 

u 

</)    o 

_) 

CM 

CO 

CM 

CO 

CM 

O) 

CM 

CO 

CM 

CO 

CM 

CO 

CM 

CO 

CM 

CO 

CM 

CO 

CM    CO 

»—  CO 

h-  CO 

1—  OO 

t—  CO 

J—  CO 

1—  CO 

h-  CO 

1—  CO 

h-  CO 

I—  co 

CO 


co 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

(O 

<TJ 

<a 

ra 

lO 

c 

+-> 

+■> 

+-> 

4-> 

4-> 

*rm 

•r* 

•f~ 

■•r" 

•r» 

(O 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

J= 

JC 

jr 

JC 

JC 

u 

>> 

>» 

>> 

>» 

>. 

CL 

CL 

CL 

CL 

a. 

•a 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

^~- 

r-» 

?— 

r- 

r^ 

lO 

<_> 

o 

<_J 

o 

CJ 

CO 

CO 

co 

CO 

CO 

3 

•a 

.^: 

T3  -* 

•a 

-*: 

•o 

^ 

T3  ^ii 

cr 

CO 

2 

CO 

2 

CO 

2 

CO 

2 

CO 

2 

<o 

CO 

ITS 

CO 

to 

CO 

(T3 

0) 

(O    CO 

4-J 

<o 

-M 

<TJ 

■4-J 

<o 

+J 

<T3 

4-> 

(T3 

r— 

CO 

r^ 

CO 

i— 

CO 

r— 

CO 

r—    CO 

m 

IfB 

L, 

•r" 

'- 

•f— 

i_ 

•r* 

i_ 

•^ 

S- 

•^» 

'- 

•r- 

u 

•r" 

S- 

•r— 

s. 

•r-     L. 

in 

x: 

Q 

^=  Q 

J= 

Q 

JC 

o 

JZ  Q 

-£Z 

o 

JC 

c_> 

JC 

(_> 

JC 

o 

JC  o 

• 

3 

3 

3 

*^T 

~g 

a. 

CL 

CL 

CL 

CL 

f»» 

• 

i. 

ro 

CM 

in 

«3» 

CO 

CTt 

CO 

to 

CO 

to 

to 

to 

to 

CO 

r^ 

CM 

CM 

.a 

to 

n 

to 

to 

«3- 

to 

CO 

CO 

CO 

cr» 

E 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

3 

cc 

CC 

cc 

CC 

CC 

CC 

CC 

cc 

CC 

cc 

Z 

uo 

in 

in 

in 

m 

in 

in 

in 

in 

m 

B-3 


14 


«f- 

o 

•M 

4J 

■M 

+» 

•M 

4-> 

U 

U 

o 

O 

u 

<u  o 

01 

01 

■M 

a* 

■M 

+J 

■»-> 

a» 

■M 

0) 

4-» 

L.    (O 

L. 

i_ 

u 

U 

U 

O 

O 

$- 

u 

k 

CJ 

3    O- 

•r— 

•r» 

01 

•r— 

01 

01 

a) 

T« 

ai 

•r- 

1) 

■M    E 

TJ 

-o 

i- 

•o 

$- 

u 

i- 

-o 

i- 

"O 

u 

fO  ►—• 

C 

c 

•r— 

c 

•r" 

•r~ 

•p» 

c 

•r- 

C 

•r" 

O  M 


CO 

3 


«J 

+J 

m 

CO 

CQ 

00 

CQ 

CO 

00 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

1 

<u  c 

E  O 

a 

Q 

a 

a 

o 

o 

o 

a 

Q 

Q 

Q 

E  •*■* 

a: 

X 

3: 

ac 

ac 

zc 

3: 

•a: 

zc 

X 

a: 

o  +-> 

a. 

Q_ 

a. 

a. 

CL 

a. 

a. 

a. 

a. 

a. 

o. 

U    <0 

cj 

CJ 

o 

o 

CJ 

cj 

cj 

c_> 

o 

o 

cj 

a>  T3 

CC 

S. 

ai 

•o 

s_ 

<c 

<£ 

<c 

<< 

<C 

<*: 

«c 

<C 

«c 

< 

«* 

o 

CL 

a. 

CL 

a. 

a. 

a. 

a. 

a. 

CL 

a. 

o. 

o 

O 

o 

o 

o 

O 

o 

o 

o 

o 

O 

o 

ai 

ro 

4-> 

i- 

<o 

• 

*— ^ 

=3 

•r» 

-a 

-t-> 

r— 

-t-> 

r— 

■!• 

c 

3  «+- 

o 

<_>  <4- 

u 

< 

i 

1 

1 

, 

i 

i 

1 

1 

f-H 

00 

OO 

CO 

o 

00 

LO 

u 

co 

1/) 

oo 

u 

•f-     CL 

•f-    Q. 

•f— 

Cl 

•r» 

•r— 

C3. 

•r-     Q. 

•T~ 

•r-  a. 

•r-    Q. 

•i-    Q. 

■r* 

LU 

.=   E 

-C    E 

.c 

E 

.C 

SZ 

E 

SZ   E 

sz 

^:   E 

-C    E 

-c  E 

"O 

i- 

—J 

a>  .-a 

a?    rO 

a 

rt3 

+J 

a> 

<a 

O)    (O 

+J 

a>  <a 

ai  to 

a>  ns 

a> 

o 

CQ 

s-  cj 

s-  cj 

s_ 

c_> 

•r— 

s- 

<_> 

S-   t_> 

•^ 

i-  o 

S-  CJ 

L,  O 

s_ 

4-> 

<t 

a> 

CL 

CL 

CL 

_J 

CL 

CL 

-J 

CL 

CL 

CL 

a» 

00 

r— 

CL 

U 

u 

o 

a 

U 

u 

CJ 

o 

4-> 

•r- 

>> 

C  -f- 

C    T- 

C 

•f— 

c 

C 

•r» 

C    •!- 

c 

C    •!- 

C  «f- 

C     T- 

r» 

J= 

a. 

H- 

a.)   L> 

CJ    i- 

<U 

s_ 

01 

a> 

i- 

<u  s- 

0) 

a>  l, 

a>  s- 

ai  s-  • 

01 

0) 

E 

CL  O 

CU  o 

o_  a 

Q. 

Q.  C 

a.  o 

CL 

Q.  O 

Q.  O 

a.  o 

SZ 

s- 

<o 

O  4-> 

O   -M 

o 

+-> 

o 

O 

+-> 

o  ■*■» 

o 

O  -M 

O  -•-* 

O   4-> 

CO 

a. 

o 

3 

3 

3 

2 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

c 

i— • 

t— 1 

i-h 

t— i 

t— i 

«— i 

T— 1 

1—1 

f-H 

l-H 

f-H 

o 

o 

o 

O 

O 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

O 

•f— 

t-*  a\ 

r— i  cr> 

t— t 

o 

1—4 

CTi 

1— t 

CO 

^H  CO 

«— t 

CO 

r-t  CO 

T— t 

f-H  CO 

t-H 

4-> 

OH  CM 

CC   <-H 

Q£ 

C\J 

cc  cm 

Q£ 

r-« 

CC    l-H 

OS 

t— 4 

o;  f-< 

as  r^ 

ac  f-t 

OS 

to 

u 
o 

oo    U 

to   o 

oo 

o 

CO 

o 

«/» 

O 

to    CJ 

to 

o 

to    O 

to    O 

00     O 

to 

CJ 

_i 

f-H     (U 

i—i    0) 

f-H 

a> 

r— t 

<D 

«— i 

at 

«— i  a) 

<-H 

a> 

f-H     <U 

f-H     <U 

1-h  a» 

f-H 

a> 

h-  co 

f—  CO 

H-  CO 

1—  CO 

t—  CO 

1—  CO 

1—  CO 

J—  CO 

»—  CO 

h-  CO 

1—  CO 

O) 


CT 

C 

c 

c 

e 

c 

c 

C 

C 

C 

c 

c 

C 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

<TJ 

>> 

>> 

>^ 

:>> 

>> 

>. 

>» 

>. 

>> 

>> 

>» 

S- 

c 

c 

c 

c 

c 

c 

c 

c 

c 

c 

c 

T3 

(O 

<o 

<a 

<o 

ia 

ia 

<a 

(O 

«a 

fO 

(O 

3 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

CJ 

1» 

t- 

i- 

s. 

L. 

u 

L. 

J- 

j- 

u 

J- 

01 

ai 

ai 

0) 

0) 

0) 

Oi 

ai 

ai 

01 

a 

M 

■M 

■»-> 

4-> 

■M 

+J 

4-> 

■M 

4-* 

■*■» 

4-> 

+j 

LO 

fO 

fO 

(O 

•a 

a 

<TJ 

<TJ 

fO 

(O 

(O 

<o 

• 

3 

3 

3 

T! 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

t^ 

ra 

i- 

«* 

LO 

r^ 

o 

CT» 

en 

ro 

CO 

LO 

CO 

CO 

ai 

CO 

CO 

o 

CTl 

o 

CO 

cr> 

cr> 

ro 

ro 

CO 

JD 

to 

to 

r-* 

to 

f^. 

to 

to 

to 

■>* 

f^» 

1^* 

E 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

3 

q: 

cc 

OS 

Of 

cc 

Q£ 

cc 

QC 

cc 

cc 

cc 

SZ 

LO 

in 

LO 

LO 

LO 

LO 

LO 

LO 

LO 

LO 

LO 

B-4 


15 


«♦- 

o 

•M 

d)    U 

+-> 

t-    «J 

U 

3    Q. 

0) 

■M    E 

i- 

«J    HH 

•(■■ 

4-> 


o 


u 

(U 


o 

a> 


C 


4-> 
O 


U 


Q  •-• 


CO 
■O  3 
C  +■» 

<o  to 
to 


CO 


CO 


_! 

as 


co 


co 


CO 


CO 


ca 


i 

C  CO 

a>  c 

E  O 

E  •*■• 

o  +j 

O  (O 

0)  T3 

oc 


o 

in 
o_ 


a. 
o 


a: 
a. 
o 


o_ 
o 


a 

a. 
o 


a. 
t_> 


a. 
t_> 


o 

Q_ 


-t-> 

c 
o 
o 


UJ 


CO 


i. 

s- 
o 
a 
<u 


c 
o 

<a  ■»-> 
i-  <a 

3    T- 

■»->  r- 

3<*- 
O  <+_ 


Q- 

o 


a. 
O 


a. 
o 


a. 
O 


a. 
o 


a. 
o 


Q_ 

o 


a. 
o 


i— 

f— 

1 

<o 

to 

CO 

1 

JC 

JC 

i- 

s_ 

jc 

JC 

•r-    Q. 

•f" 

CL 

CL 

•a 

3 

T3    3 

Q. 

CL 

-C   E 

JC 

>> 

>> 

a; 

4-> 

CD   -M 

>> 

>. 

a>  as 

O  r— 

r- • 

s- 

U 

S-    O 

s-  o 

J-    <o 

<u 

o> 

en 

ai 

OJ 

<D     OJ 

"a* 

o? 

a. 

<    4- 

Q. 

o 

o 

+J 

4-> 

4-»  -(-» 

O 

o 

u 

3 

>> 

u 

s- 

r— 

•r— 

r-»  »r" 

s_ 

s_ 

C  -f- 

C  4-> 

h- 

4-> 

4-> 

a> 

-e 

<D  J= 

4-> 

4J 

O)     J- 

a>  u 

0) 

<1) 

sz 

u 

JC    U 

(U 

a) 

CL  O 

CL   O) 

a. 

a. 

lO 

to   $- 

a. 

a. 

O   4J 

o  ■»-> 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

csj 

c 

t— t 

t— • 

CVJ 

t-H 

t-H 

t— » 

r-* 

t— • 

o 

o 

O 

o 

o 

O 

o 

O 

o 

r— 

T— • 

«— i 

r— 1 

I— 1  I— 1 

l-H   t— t 

f— « 

to 

r-H  t— 1 

•-H  O 

<T3 

oc 

UD 

OS 

lO 

Of 

«— 1 

oc  co 

oc  co 

QC 

CO 

o:  co 

a:  co 

o 

CO 

cj 

co 

o 

CO 

o 

c  o 

c   u 

c 

o 

c  o 

c  o 

-J 

T-H 

<D 

r— < 

(1) 

t— t 

CD 

t-H  a> 

i— I   <u 

«— • 

<D 

r— 1     QJ 

f— i  a> 

h-  to 

1—  to 

I—  to 

l—  to 

I—  to 

»—  to 

f—  to 

1—  to 

a 

c 

•— i 

A 

CO   4-> 

<u  c 

a  <u 

<a  E 

••-> 

f—  a> 

U 

o.  en 

•r— 

<o 

s_ 

a  c 

•»-> 

•^  <a 

CO 

i-  2 

•»■» 

o 

4->    O 

.  +J  <u 

c 

O   CO   o 

<D    U 

C-r-   s- 

E-f 

t-i  a:  3 

0)     S- 

o 

a>  o 

»C|-     tO 

ra  4-> 

£0    0) 

C    CO 

CO           QC 

<0    •!- 

3    S- 

S  3C 

M    <U  «— 

C  4->    (d 

-o  o 

tO    CO    S- 

c  -a 

i.   T-      3 

(13    ra  ^i    CT>+-> 

_J  4-> 

(U  i— 

c  -o  o:  3 

«»-    •!- 

c      o 

o  o_ 

lO  I— 

ra  c 

3    C 

C    C    i- 

(0    O 

o  o  <u 

a>  >>td  t-  +j 

$-  c 

S-  +J    CO 

3  <a 

O    to    0) 

CQUC9Z3 

1     1 

1     1     1 

>- 

LU 

*£ 

^ 

Q 

a.  21 

siooxo: 

—i  a. 

cc  0 

co  o  o  2:  3 

aj 


O) 

C 

c 

C 

c 

O 

0 

O 

<o 

>> 

>> 

>l 

s- 

C 

c 

c 

■0 

tO 

tO 

its 

to 

0 

0 

0 

>» 

>. 

>» 

>» 

>» 

3 

r^» 

f^» 

r^ 

r- 

r— 

o- 

i- 

i- 

t_ 

ai 

a> 

ai 

OJ 

a» 

a> 

0) 

<u 

CJ) 

a> 

U) 

C7) 

o> 

■B 

■M 

4-1 

■M 

c 

c 

c 

c 

c 

in 

(O 

rO 

*o 

fO 

<a 

to 

<a 

tO 

■ 

3 

3 

3 

QC 

QC 

ac 

oc 

QC 

r*^ 

$- 

O 

O 

l-H 

CO 

t^ 

CSJ 

in 

CO 

a> 

«3" 

CM 

*3- 

«3" 

«a- 

** 

»* 

**• 

jO 

r-» 

r~>. 

r>^ 

r- 

r*. 

r-^ 

ro. 

r-» 

E 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

3 

QC 

QC 

a; 

QC 

QC 

QC 

oc 

oc 

•21 

CO 

U"> 

to 

LO 

CO 

LO 

in 

in 

B-5 


16 


o 

o>  u 

S-  ra 

4->  £ 


to 

"O  =3 
C  4-> 
«J    rO 


<M 


CO 


CQ 


o 

QC 
LU 


Q_ 


X 


o 

-J 
<=c 

— 
q; 

Z3 
O 
co 

LU 


o 


co 


c 
o 


<a 
•o 

e 

0) 

c= 

o 
(j 

4) 

a: 


a> 
•o 
s- 
o 
u 
a> 


o> 


C 

o 


o 
o 


o> 


u 

c 


CO 


o> 

-Q 


4J 
O 

a» 

i- 

c 


ca 


O) 
CT> 


O    O)         -i- 


i—    CT         UJ 

.*  r—  4-> 

•r-  LU  O 


a. 
O 


i 


o>  a. 

i-  E 

a.  rg 

o 

S_  -r- 

0)  s_ 

-M  O 

i—  -t-> 

(1)  </l 

-C  •<- 

CO  -C 


3 
t— i 

o 


a. 
O 


i 

<u  a. 

s-  E 

Q.  (O 

•o 

<D    O 
&_  -f- 

o>  i- 
+■>  o 

r—   -t-> 

a>  </> 

-C  -r- 
CO  JZ 


3 
«— i 

o 


01 


■a 

c 


_1 

CQ 


•?— 

en 

LU 

■!-» 
O 


a. 
o 


ai  a. 
s-  E 
a.  ra 
o 
-o 

a>  u 
s_  ^» 
o>  t- 
+->  o 
I—  -M 
o>  </> 


3 
o 


C    O) 

t— •  CO 


c  a> 

<— I  CO 


c  at 

t-t  CO 


o> 

c 

fO 

>> 

>> 

>> 

1- 

r-* 

fm 

r"- 

T3 

o> 

01 

o> 

fO 

CT> 

CT> 

o> 

3 

c 

C 

c 

cr 

ra 

«a 

fO 

CC 

OS 

ce 

LO 

r*» 

j_ 

CO 

cr» 

o 

CD 

«3- 

«a- 

LO 

J2> 

I— • 

r-H 

»— • 

E 

ca 

CO 

CO 

3 

ac 

ce 

cc 

2= 

LO 

LO 

LO 

B-6 


APPENDIX  C 
SURFICIAL  GEOLOGY  AND  GEOTECHNICAL  CONSIDERATIONS 


SURFICIAL  GEOLOGY 

C . 1   General 

The  stratigraphic  sequence  along  the  corridor  route  ranges  in  age 
from  Upper  Cretaceous  to  Recent.   The  oldest  rocks  are  exposed  near  the 
White  River  crossing  at  Rangely.   The  youngest  geologic  formation  in  the 
corridor  area  is  the  alluvial,  colluvial,  and  talus  deposits  of  Quaternary 
age  primarily  found  along  streams,  slopes,  and  at  the  base  of  Cathedral 
Bluffs.   From  Rangely  to  the  Clear  Creek  Creek  property,  both  Routes  A 
and  B  cross  progressively  younger  sedimentary  units,  except  where 
crossing  recent  deposits.   Most  geologic  contacts  in  the  study  area  are 
conformable  except  were  noted.   The  geologic  units  encountered  within 
the  corridor  areas  are  described  in  the  following  paragraphs  and 
illustrated  on  Maps  1  and  2. 

C . 2  Mancos  Shale,  Main  Body 

The  Mancos  Shale,  of  late  Cretaceous  age,  is  the  oldest  rock  within 
the  study  area.   It  consists  of  brownish  to  dark  gray  marine  shale, 
interbedded  with  siltstone,  very  fine  grained  sandstone,  and  thin  beds 
of  bentonite.   The  total  thickness  is  about  4,500  ft.   The  upper  portion 
of  the  Mancos  is  exposed  in  various  locations  along  the  perimeter  of 
White  River  Valley  near  Rangely. 

C. 3  Tongue  of  Castlegate  Sandstone 

The  Castlegate  Sandstone,  also  of  Upper  Cretaceous  age,  overlies 
the  main  body  of  the  Mancos  Shale.   It  consists  of  light  gray,  fine  to 
medium  grained  sandstone  that  is  fairly  resistent  to  erosion  and 
outcrops  south  of  Rangely  in  the  form  of  ledges.   The  dip  of  the 
Castelgate  Sandstone  ranges  from  10  to  22  degrees  to  the  south  within 
the  corridor  area,  and  its  thickness  is  about  35  to  50  ft. 

C.4   Buck  Tongue  of  Mancos  Shale 

The  Buck  Tongue  of  the  Mancos  Shale  is  of  Upper  Cretaceous  age  and 
overlies  the  Castlegate  Sandstone.   It  consists  of  gray  to  brownish  gray 
marine  shale.   This  shale  is  easily  erodible  and  its  thickness  is  about 
250  to  300  ft. 


C.5  Mesaverde  Group 

In  the  Rangely  area,  where  detailed  geologic  information  is  available 
(Cullins  1971),  the  Mesaverde  Group  has  been  divided  into  different 
geologic  units  on  the  east  and  west  side  of  Douglas  Creek.   The 
stratigraphy  of  the  Mesaverde  Group  east  of  Douglas  Creek  is  divided,  in 
ascending  order,  into  the  Sego  Sandstone,  the  lies  Formation,  and  the 
Williams  Fork  Formation.   West  of  Douglas  Creek,  informal  units  are 
mapped  (Cullins  1971)  as  part  of  the  Mesaverde  Group.   These  units  in 
ascending  order  include  the  Sego  Sandstone,  the  Minor  Coal  Unit,  the 
Main  Coal  Unit,  and  the  Upper  Unit.   The  general  lithologic  description 
of  the  Mesaverde  Group  is  presented  in  the  following  paragraphs. 

C.5.1   Sego  Sandstone 

The  Sego  Sandstone  overlies  the  Buck  Tongue  of  the  Mancos  Shale  and 
is  of  Upper  Cretaceous  Age.   It  consists  of  very  light  gray,  fine  grained 
massive  sandstone  at  the  top,  brownish  gray  sandy  shale  in  the  middle, 
and  yellowish  gray  to  grayish  orange  fine  grained  sandstone  at  the  base. 
The  beds  dip  approximately  14  to  16  degrees  to  the  south  in  the  corridor 
area.   Like  the  Castlegate  Sandstone,  the  outcrops  of  the  Sego  Sandstone 
form  erosion  resistant  ridges.   It  is  approximately  200  to  210  feet  in 
thickness . 

C.5. 2  West  of  Douglas  Creek 

C.5. 2.1   Minor  Coal  Unit.   The  Minor  Coal  Unit  overlies  the  Sego 
Sandstone  and  consists  of  interbedded  light  brown  and  yellowish  gray 
fine  to  very  fine  grained  sandstone,  gray  to  light  brown  gray  shale, 
brown  carbonaceous  shale,  and  thin  coal  beds  up  to  2.5  ft  thick. 
Thickness  ranges  from  690  to  720  ft. 

C.5. 2. 2.   Main  Coal  Unit.   This  unit  overlies  the  Minor  Coal  Unit 
and  is  composed  of  interbedded  grayish  orange,  very  fine  grained 
lenticular  sandstone;  gray  shale;  brown  carbonaceous  shale;  and  coal. 


The  maximum  measured  coal  thickness  is  15  ft,  and  the  thickness  of  the 
entire  unit  is  about  540  to  680  ft  thick. 

C.5.2.3   Upper  Unit.   This  unit  overlies  the  Main  Coal  Unit  and 
contains  interbedded  brown  to  yellowish  gray,  massive,  lenticular 
sandstones  and  yellowish  gray  shale.   Total  thickness  of  this  unit  is 
about  1,100  ft,  but  only  the  lower  portion  of  this  unit  is  exposed  in 
the  corridor  area. 

C.5.3  East  of  Douglas  Creek 

C.5.3.1   lies  Formation.   The  main  body  of  the  lies  Formation, 
which  is  equivalent  to  the  lower  two-thirds  of  the  Minor  Coal  Unit  west 
of  Douglas  Creek,  overlies  the  Sego  Sandstone.   It  is  composed  of 
interbedded  light  brown  and  yellowish  gray,  fine  to  very  fine  grained 
sandstone;  gray  shale;  brown  carbonaceous  shale;  and  thin  coal  beds. 
The  thickness  is  about  500  ft. 

The  Trout  Creek  Member  overlies  the  main  body  of  the  lies  Formation 
and  consists  of  a  light  to  brownish  gray,  fine  grained,  massive  porous 
sandstone.   Its  thickness  is  about  60  ft. 

C.5.3. 2   Williams  Fork  Formation.   The  Williams  Fork  Formation, 
which  is  equivalent  to  the  Upper  Unit,  Main  Coal  Unit,  and  upper  250  ft 
of  the  Minor  Coal  Unit  west  of  Douglas  Creek,  overlies  the  lies  Formation. 
It  consists  of  interbedded  grayish  orange  to  yellowish  gray  fine  grained 
lenticular  sandstone,  gray  shale,  brown  carbonaceous  shale,  and  coal 
beds  up  to  8  ft  in  thickness.   Numerous  occurrences  of  burned  and  baked 
strata,  through  the  in  situ  burning  of  coal  beds,  are  located  in  the 
Williams  Fork  Formation.   The  thickness  of  this  formation  is  about 
1,890  ft. 

C . 6   Ohio  Creek  Formation 

The  Ohio  Creek  Formation,  which  unconf ormably  overlies  the  Mesaverde 
Group,  is  of  Paleocene  Age.   It  consists  of  a  light  gray,  very  fine 
grained  sandstone;  gray  and  green  mudstone  and  shale;  and  lenses  of 
conglomerate.   Generally,  it  weathers  to  ledges  and  steep  slopes.   The 
thickness  ranges  from  80  to  300  ft. 


C . 7   Wasatch  Formation 

The  Wasatch  Formation,  of  late  Paleocene  and  early  Eocene  Age, 
unconformably  overlies  the  Ohio  Creek  Formation.   It  consists  of  gray 
and  brown,  very  fine  to  medium  grained  sandstone;  gray,  greenish  gray, 
and  red  mudstone  and  shale;  isolated  thin  lenses  of  conglomerate; 
carbonaceous  shale;  and  coal.   The  Wasatch  Formation  is  generally 
nonresistant  to  erosion  and  its  outcrop  forms  a  lowland  between  cliffs 
or  ridges  of  the  overlying  Green  River  Formation  and  the  underlying 
Mesaverde  Group.   The  thickness  of  the  Wasatch  varies  greatly,  but  in 
the  vicinity  of  the  corridor  area,  it  is  about  200  to  350  ft. 

C. 8  Green  River  Formation 

The  Green  River  Formation,  of  Eocene  Age,  conformably  overlies  the 
Wasatch  Formation.   In  the  corridor  area,  the  Green  River  Formation  has 
been  subdivided,  in  ascending  order,  into  three  basic  members;  the 
Douglas  Creek  Member,  Garden  Gulch  Member,  and  Parachute  Creek  Member. 
These  three  members  are  described  in  more  detail  in  the  following 
paragraphs. 

C.8.1   Douglas  Creek  Member 

The  Douglas  Creek  Member  conformably  overlies  the  Wasatch  Formation, 
and  at  many  places,  the  contact  is  transitional.   These  rocks  are 
resistant  to  erosion  and  commonly  form  a  series  of  benches.   It  consists 
of  brown  to  buff,  crossbedded  and  ripple-marked  sandstone;  algal  and 
ostrocodal  limestone;  oolitic  sandstone  and  limestone;  and  minor  amounts 
of  gray  shale.   The  thickness  of  this  member  is  about  450  to  500  ft. 

C.8.2   Garden  Gulch  Member 

The  Garden  Gulch  Member  conformably  overlies  the  Douglas  Creek 
Member.   It  consists  of  dark  gray  flaky  and  papery  shale;  gray  and 
yellow  brown  siltstone  and  very  fine  grained  sandstone;  marlstone;  and 
thin  beds  of  gray  oil  shale.   It  is  generally  nonresistant  to  erosion, 
forms  steep  cliffs,  and  is  subject  to  landsliding.   The  thickness  of 
this  unit  is  about  650  ft. 


C.8.3  Parachute  Creek  Member 

The  Parachute  Creek  Member  conformably  overlies  the  Garden  Gulch 
Member  and  contains  the  riches  and  thickest  oil  shale  beds  in  the  Green 
River  Formation.   It  consists  of  gray  and  tan  platy  to  massive  marlstone, 
dark  gray  to  blue  gray  oil  shale,  and  numerous  thin  gray  and  yellow 
brown  tuff  beds.   It  generally  weathers  to  cliffs  and  steep  slopes.   The 
whitish  cliffs  along  Cathedral  Bluffs  is  the  Parachute  Creek  Member.   A 
particular  kerogen-rich  zone,  the  Mahogany  Zone,  occurs  in  the  upper 
part  of  the  Parachute  Creek  Member  and  forms  a  prominent  resistent  ledge 
in  outcrop. 

The  thickness  varies  throughout  the  region,  but  in  the  vicinity  of 
Cathedral  Bluffs  is  about  1,000  ft. 

C.9   Uinta  Formation 

The  Uinta  Formation,  of  late  Eocene  Age,  conformably  overlies  the 
Green  River  Formation  and  is  the  surface  rock  over  much  of  the  corridor 
area  near  the  Clear  Creek  site.   In  this  area,  the  Uinta  was  formally 
known  as  the  Evacuation  Creek  Member  and  the  Green  River  Formation. 
However,  on  the  basis  of  stratigraphic  correlations,  Cashion  and  Donnell 
(1975)  revised  the  original  nomenclature.   The  Uinta  consists  of  brown 
and  gray  siltstone,  very  fine  grained  sandstone,  and  some  barren  light 
gray  marlstone.   Some  beds  of  oil  shale  are  present  near  the  base  in 
parts  of  the  area.   The  Uinta  outcrops  at  the  top  of  the  Cathedral 
Bluffs  and  forms  buff  to  light  brown  rounded  hills  on  the  Roan  Plateau. 
The  lower  part  intertongues  with  the  Parachute  Creek  Member,  and  has 
been  mapped  as  such  by  Hail  (1977)  and  Johnson  (1977).   On  the  geologic 
map,  the  contact  is  placed  at  the  base  of  the  lowermost  tan  siltstone  or 
sandstone  bed  overlying  the  gray  dolomitic  oil  shale  and  clay  shale  beds 
that  compromise  the  upper  part  of  the  Parachute  Creek  Member.   Only  the 
lower  400  ft  is  exposed  in  the  vicinity  of  the  corridor  area. 

C. 10   Alluvium  and  Colluvium 

Alluvium  and  colluvium  of  Quarternary  Age  is  present  throughout  the 
entire  corridor  area  along  streams  and  slopes.  Alluvial  fan  and  terrace 
deposits  have  also  been  identified  in  the  Rangely  area  (Cullins  1971). 


The  fans  are  large,  coalescent  features  formed  along  Douglas  Creek  when 
the  river  was  at  higher  base  level.   Terrace  deposits  are  identified 
south  of  the  White  River  and  along  Douglas  Creek.   All  of  these  deposits 
consist  of  silt,  sand,  and  gravel.   Alluvium  in  the  flood  plain  of  the 
White  River  is  estimated  to  be  about  90  feet  thick. 

C. 11   Landslide  and  Talus  Deposits 

Landslide  and  talus  deposits  of  Quaternary  age  occur  along  the 
corridor  area  primarily  at  the  base  of  steep  cliffs,  notably  the 
Cathedral  Bluffs.   It  consists  of  a  heterogeneous  mixture  of  the  shale, 
siltstone,  and  sandstone  that  form  the  Cathedral  Bluffs.   The  thickness 
of  this  material  varies  throughout  the  corridor  area. 


€ 


APPENDIX  D 

BENTHIC  MACROINVERTEBRATES  COLLECTED  FROM  STREAMS  POTENTIALLY 
AFFECTED  BY  PIPELINE  ROUTES  A  AND  B  TO  RANGELY 


H 


Q 
W 
H 
CJ 

w 
fa 

fa 

h-J 
i-J 
< 
l— ( 
H 
^ 
W 
H 
O 
O-i 

CO 

s 
< 
w 

OS 
H 
co 

S 

o 

OS 

fa 

Q 
W 
H 
CJ 

fa 
r-l 

O 
CJ 

CO 

w 

H 

< 

« 
pq 

W 

H 
05 


O 
OS 
c_> 


cj 

i — i 
X 
H 
2 
W 

« 


n 

2 
< 


CO 

w 

H 

o 

PS 


hJ 
w 

0-i 
I— I 
O-i 

>H 

PO 


s-l 
u 
& 
cu 


a 


< 

m 

en 

CO 

CO 

PS 

• 

• 

• 

o 

CM 

en 

CM 

&* 

<r 

U 

CU 

X) 

tu 

a 

u 

CJ 

&« 

u 

CJ 

u 

■H 

CO 

Xj 

O 

3 

w 

2 

J* 

0) 

cu 

^5    S-i 

u  cj 
o 

fa    w 
«J 

+J  l-l 


s-l 
cj 

CO     MX 


1— 1 

eo 

M 

M 

T3 

CJ 

OJ 

CJ 

X3 

S-l 

4-> 

CJ 

'13 

CJ 

CU 

<u 
M 

CJ 

co 

C3 

i— I 
00 

3 

o 

Q 


a 


s-i 
qj 
x 
S 


o 

CO 


m 


Ma 
o 


r-  cm        o 

>J-  r-t  CO 


oo  cm        m 


m 


CO 


CM 


CO 


m 

o 


m 


o 


CM 


CM 

00 


CM 


CO 


00 


m 


CM 


CM  CM 

00  00 


CM  CM 


m  ^o 

O  rH 


CM 


CO 

CJ 

4-1 

03 

I       U 

o  X> 

U     4-1 
CO      1-1 

> 

o   c 

2   >H 


en 


^o 


<3>    CM 

r-~  co 


m  cm 


00 


CO 


CM 

CO 


CM 


OJ 
CO 
T3 


CU 
C0 


CU 
CO 


CO 

<0 

X 

TJ 

CO 

O 

H 

4-1 

CO 

S 

CU 

2 

CO 

o 

CJ 
CO 

s-l 

4-1 
CO 

O 


co 
U 

CJ 

4-1      CJ      CO 
CU    CO     'H 

o  -o  4-> 

S-l    •  r-l     41 
CJ     4-1     (0 

S    cj  pa 

CJ     co 

xs  pa 

& 

w 


CJ 
CO 

•  t: 

cu  -r* 

CO     r— ( 


CJ  CJ 

u  s 

CJ  CJ 

S  XJ 

CJ  CUl  4-1 

X  w 
a,        cj 


a 

eg 

cu 

cu 

■H 

CO 

•     00 

XI 

Cu    «3     OJ 

OJ 

CO 

CO     4-1      <TJ 

1— 1 

cu 

cu  -a 

XI 

CJ    T3 

CO 

CU    -H 

cu 

CO     O 

H 

a  -h 

o 

T3  x: 

a 

rO 

4-1 

•r-l    4-1 

OJ 

c    cu 

■cu 

X!     >> 

M 

3    rH 

CJ 

4-1       S-l 

CO 

o  xs 

rH 

•^  o 

4-1 

d   cu 

CO 

S-l     CJ 

=U 

-*     o 

u 

O    -H 

OJ 

C      4J 

CO 

U     S-l 

3      &  OLi 

•H    H 

cu 

-J 


S-l 

H 


CJ 

CO  CO 

S-i  -o 

CJ  -H 

4J  -r-l 

CU  c 

o 

CJ 


cu 

CO 

TS 

•H 

CO    -H 

•H     C 

c   cu 

CU  CO 
CO  CJ 
U 

CO  CJ 
4-1  S-i 
=D     3 


.13 


CU    CJ 

r-l 

CU 


S-l 

co  S 

OJ  1 

CU  2  i— i 

CO 


CU 
CO 

CO 

X 

z 

V 


CO 
S-i 

CJ 
4J 

cu 
o 
u 

•      CU 

CU  r-l 

co   O-i 

(0|  CU 
S-l 
S-l 
CJ 
CU|  CO 

o 
co 


w 

03 
< 


a 


co 

CJ  3 

qj  oo  s-i 

3     <D 
<   XI 


JxJ 

CU 

£ 

u 

CJ 

&< 

(-1 

CU 

h 

•r4 

0) 

T3 

X> 

rH 

= 

O 

3 

en 

2 

3 

OJ 

-* 

S-l 

3^ 

u 

cj 

o 

tn 

V] 

as 

S-l 

4-1 

i— i 

OJ 

co 

00 

X 

CO 

3 

s 

w 

o 

3 

Q 

S5 

J>S 

11 

OJ 

S-l 

CJ 

CO 

CO 

r-t 

00 

3 

O 

Q 

i— l 

CO 

S-l 

Jxi 

T3 

OJ 

0) 

CU 

— 

S-l 

4-1 

u 

CO 

CJ 

£ 


CO 
X 

CO 

H 


CM 

on 


o 


O 


as 
oo 


o>  CM 

00  i— i 


o 


in        i-h 


CM  iH 


0> 

o 


CM 


o\ 


en 

ON 

O 

in 

ON 

<r  <r 

co 

r— I 

*x> 

o 

o 

PH    00 

r-       -j- 


CO  i— i 


en  oo 


CM 

00 


CM 


m 

o 


^o 


-a- 


CM 


CO 


^o 


m 
m 


m 
oo 


CM 

OO 


CM 


01 

CO 
•H 


<L)     CO 


CO 

-a 


s-i  3 

4-1  <u 

CO    3  U 

S-l     OJ  ^ 

OJ     cj  J3 

4-1      >•  CJ 

a-  .3  co 

O     CJ  S-l 

J3     CO  PQ 

CJ     S-l 
•H    CQ 

S-l 
H 


Cu, 
to 


u 
>. 

CO      O  I  4-1      O 

a,  s-i   a,  s-i 

O    "O     O    "3  |"0 
S-l     >J   S-l     >J'H     OJ 
T3    331-3    331  Oh  i-J 
>>  >.  <L) 

33  X  -J 


CO 

Oh 

3 

CO 

Cm 

cu 

co 

a, 

o 

3 

CO 

r— 1 

> 

r— 1 

S-l 

CU      CO 

>. 

OJ 

CO     CO 

CJ 

CO 

T3    -H 

CD     O 

o 

•H    J3 

CO      S-l 

•H 

i— 1     O 

■a    cj 

*j 

a,  >> 

s  s 

£ 

•i-l      S-l 

r-4     CQ 

CU 
CO 


CM 


00 


CO 


o 

3 

o 

S-l 
•H 

J3 
CJ 

■3 
CU 


CO 

33 


o 

c 

CO  O 

S-l  S-l 

CU  -H 

4->  _G 

a,  cj 


£     3     <U 


CU     co 

-O    T3 


<u 

CO 

-o 

•r-4 
CJ 

co 

3 


co 


a 

5 

a 

CO 

3 

co 

CU 

•rH 

CO     CO 

CU 

1—1 

g 

T3     5 

CO 

3 

3 

•H     O 

— 

s 

•H 

T5     O 

•  1-1 

•rH 

i—l 

O    -H 

•H 

CO 

"3 

-3     S-i 

1 — ' 

o 

SI 

CJ     CU 

"3 

S-l 

•r-4 

>,CL 

= 

Oh 

cyj  1 

fi 


CO  -H 

Oh  CO 


H 

O 
C_> 


I 

Q 
W 

pa 


ftl  d 

ft    00    S-l 

<  x> 
S 


-M 

<u 

<u 

-* 

u 

S-l 

c_> 

o 

Ph 

w 

to 

4-J 

1— 1 

CO 

00 

m 

3 

w 

o 

p 

<u 

5-1 

u 

w 

CO 

rH 

oo 

o 

a 


1— 1 

CO 

S-l 

Jxi 

T3 

OJ 

OJ 

OJ 

x; 

S-l 

4-) 

C_> 

CO 

u 

CM 


ON    LTJ 

^O    i— i 


o  m 
VO  o 


en 


vj  rH 


lo  r— 

i— i  i— i 

CM 


lD 


<r  o 

00    i— I 


CO   00 


<L) 

CO 

CO 

E 

ft 

w 

3 

•H 

ft 

CO 

<""> 

CO 

00 

-o 

•     S-l 

S-l 

<u 

ft 

ft    OJ 

o 

3 

W 

W     4-> 

C 

QJ 

ft 

<-w 

•H 

CO 

75 

CO 

•H 

O     co 

4-1 

-o 

3 

i— 1 

Q 

X 

3 

■H 

xi 

■rH 

S-l     CO 

o 

>i 

ft 

m 

-3 

3 

oj  h 

u 

a 

>. 

CO 

ft 

3 

pQ 

s — s 

o 

S-l 

T3 

o 

o 

S    <-W 

CO 

■H 

CO 

•H 

a 

CI 

3   o 

X 

CO 

4-1 

ft 

r^ 

a 

JsA 

55 

CO 

S-l 

Cfl 

3 

3 

■H 

3 

S-l 

E-h 

<u 

S-l 

w 

ft  r-H 

3 

i— 1    <u 

+-> 

4J 

•H 

CO    43 

ft  CO 

H 

4J      S 

•H 

O    3 

Q 

H  55 

♦ 


( 


RI02  W 


1 


T2N 


i         £fo 


:  i     ;.  & 


R  99  W 


! 


- 


-3 


-    ■ 


T  2  S 


T  2  S 


CHEVRON  CLEAR  CREEK  PROJECT 
SYNCRUDE  PIPELINE  ALTERNATIVES 
CLEAR  CREEK  TO  RANGELY 

PROPOSED  ROUTE  ALTERNATIVES 
GEOLOGIC  MAP 


ENVIRONMENTAL  RESEARCH  4  TECHNOLOGY  INC 


R   99  W 


ft 


r    s. 


( 


I 


Route  1 


T 
5 
S 


Epoch  Period 

Qal  Alluvium   and   Terrace    Deposit 

' '  I    Pleistocene    . 

>  end  }  Quaternary 

Tolus  and   Landslide    Deposits  Holocene 


Tertiary 


Fault,  doshed  where   approximate  or  inferred, 
___ —  dotted  where  covered   by  younger  sediments, 

.  o*Jw*_-       D  U.upthrown   side;  D,  downthrown   side 

;'■     :_ 


CHEVRON  CLEAR  CREEK   PROJECT 

SYNCRUDE  PIPELINE  ALTERNATIVES 

CLEAR  CREEK  TO  LA  SAL 

PROPOSED  ROUTE  ALTERNATIVES 
GEOLOGIC  MAP 


■ 


R97  W 


R  102  W 


R  101  W 


R  100  W 


T  I  S 


• 


R  102  W 


I 


R  102  W 


Has 
Suaber  Map  Unit   Naoe 

arachutc    loan 
-Ce        Parachute -Rhone   loams 
16  Irigul-Parachute   complex 

26  Rhone  loan 

forth  fine  sandy    loaoi 


f:„,    '""'' 


T  3  S 


R  101  W 


!i      ' 


Route  A- 


.    i 





ZJZ 


■ 


B 


• 


, 


(^ 


T 


/ 


MLd  ' 


<■  i 


; 


.   - 


2Ce  ParachuCe-Hnone    loams 

16  Irlgul-Parachute   complex 

26  Rhone  loam 

33  risvorch    fine   sandy    loao 

38  Havre    loam 

38  Havre   loan 

it  Turley    fine  sandy    loam 

39C  Turley   fine   sandy   loan 

41  Glendlve    fine   sandy   loam 

ii    sllty   clay   loan 

460  Kobar  alley  clay   loan 

i8  BulSley   ehannery   siltj 

5  M  ^icem    i  iaa 

50D  Patera 

63  Rent  sac    ehannery   loam 

65E  Hovers  on  s  coney  clay   loam 
tilings    silcy    clay    loan 
1  .  iiil    ehannery   sand:  J" 

X48  BLakabln-Rhone-Waybe    lorapli 

X58  Staraan-Vandamore    complex 

X6h  Blazon,   *oist-Ki:riC5jr 

72  Chipeta  ailty   clay   loam 

136        Bllllngs-Torrifluvents    complex 

15'J       Elnnear   fine   sandy   loam 

X5         Vorthwater  loan 

Sb  [rlgul   ehannery   loan 

i  I  as    low 
X26        Razorba  ehannery  sandv    loam 
X33       L'ffens  loan 

r.^un-Rock  Outcrop 

■  ■        - 

-rri    « 

_ 

ilaron  sandy   loaa 


CHEVRON  CLEAR  CREEK  PROJECT 
SYNCRUDE  PIPELINE  ALTERNATIVES 
CLEAR  CREEK  TO  RANGELY 

PROPOSEO  ROUTE  ALTERNATIVES 
SOILS  MAP 


ERT 


ENVIRONMENTAL  RESEARCH  5  TECHNOLOG-V 


R     101    W 


- 


R  100  W 


R99W 


R   97  W 


R   96  W 


/WK  A' 


T^I_T 


M 


T 
4 
S 


Route  2 


7TV7^>. 


I 

II 


', 


- 


j 


La  Sal   Parachute 
PUItip  Station 


1  |S: 


v 


: 


1  X 


-y 


i 


"■'  o 

■ 

t!i_'il2_  i 


^i'.,^v\  ~;^ 


R  97  W 


RI02  W 


T2N 


T  I  N 


R  99  W 


T  I  S 


TIS 


'  ' 


T2S 


. 


"_21 Luu _ 


.  ■'. 


■4.7.".  --BH^y^s  a  ."  -■■ 


R  102  W 


T2S 


T  3  S 


COVEF   r.TES 

c 

Grassland 

s 

Sagesruth 

PJ 

PJnyon-  r<mi; 

As 

Asp*, 

MS 

Mixed    Bn,Sh 

w 

r.reasewood 

* 

■ 

C 

Conifer 

CHEVRON  CLEAR  CREEK  PROJECT 

SYNCRUDE  PIPELINE  ALTERNATIVES 

CLEAR  CREEK  TO  RANGELY 

PROPOSED  ROUTE  ALTERNATIVES 
VEGETATION  MAP 


ERT 


NVIRONMEMUl   RESEAI 


TlLZT 


-i     /  ■■  *    /    ; :     '     »-:   ""  /  V  $■•  i  »Vv? 


Ju  ' 


R  101  W 


izrmifcirs 


T  4  S 


R  100  W 


R99  W 


R  97  W 


R  96  W 


l.rv. 


WWv< 


- 


i 


Rnnto   9 


I 


R  97  W 


Route  2 


: 

'^"T[r~ 

T 

5 

1      S 

1 

12  Miles  UpsUeorr 


♦  Colorado  River   Squowfish 
R   101  W  I    (ptycHocheilus  Indus) 

* 


T  2  S 


. .-  '  ' 


1 

R  102  W 


ENVIRONMENTAL    CONSTRAINTS    OR 
AVOIDANCE   AREAS 

Visuol  Resources 

|   n    |    Closs  n  (Restrictive) 

|  m  |  cioss  m 
I  nr  |  cioss  m. 

Cultural    Resources 

Historic   District 

•        Known  Sites 

Wildlife  Resources 
V//\    Mule  Deer  Critical  Winter  Range 
ISS^j     CDOW   Managed   Lands 
yf^      Sage  Grouse  Strutting  Grounds 

Threatened   and/or  Endangered  Species 
>j<       Bald   Eagle   Wintering    Along   White  River 


•../...•    Rare  or  Unusual  Plants 

7  Astragalus   lutosus  (  dragon  milk  vetch  ) 
I  3  Aquilegio  barnebyi  (  Barneby's  columbine  ) 
14  Sullivontia  purpusii  (  sullivantia  ) 

CHEVRON     CLEAR    CREEK     PROJECT 

SYNCRUDE     PIPELINE      ALTERNATIVES 

CLEAR    CREEK   TO   RANGELY 


PROPOSED    ROUTE     ALTERNATIVES 
ENVIRONMENTAL   CONSTRAINTS 


ERT 


MAP  8 


ENVIRONMENTAL  RESEARCH  &  TECHNOLOGY  INC 


R  99  W 


Route  1 


Route  2 


N; 


\ 


■ 


■ 


La  Sal  Parachuh 
Pump  Station 


-{f^M>\ 


Route  2B 


R  97  W 


"j"-i         ~/VC 

'"'''    -"'     V-s^ 

R  96  W 


■-■'. 


Route  1 


;  mm 


yM, 


s  v  s 


\ 


.■..■■■■  , 

j 


"1  -, 

i    1     I 


4 
S 


Route  1 


wz 


