NOTICE 


THIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN REPRODUCED FROM 
MICROFICHE. ALTHOUGH IT IS RECOGNIZED THAT 
CERTAIN PORTIONS ARE ILLEGIBLE, IT IS BEING RELEASED 
IN THE INTEREST OF MAKING AVAILABLE AS MUCH 
INFORMATION AS POSSIBLE 



NASA Technical Memorandum 81607 


Fracture Toughness of Brittle Materials 
Determined With Chevron Notch Specimens 

(NAS A-TM-816 07) FRACTURE TOUGHNESS 01" N80-J2466 

BRITTLE MATERIALS LET rat MI NED Mil'll CHEVRON 
NOTCH SPECIMENS (NASA) 17 p dC A 02/ME A01 

CSCL 1 1F Unclas 

G3/26 28916 

J. L. Shannon, Jr. and R. T. Bubsey 

Lewis Research Center 

and 

D. Munz 

Universitdt Karlsruhe and Kernforschungszentrum Karlsruhe • 

Karlsruhe, FR Germany 
and 

W. S. Pierce 
Lewis Research Center 
Cleveland, Ohio 


Prepared for the 

Fifth International Conference on Fracture 
sponsored by the International Congress on Fracture 
Cannes, France, March 29-April 3, 1981 





E -600 


FRACTURE TOUGHNESS OF BRITTLE MATERIALS 
DETERMINED WITH CHEVRON NOTCH SPECIMENS 

J. L. Shannon, Jr,*, R, T. Bubsey*, D. Munz** and W. S. Pierce* 


INTRODUCTION 

Increasing world-wide energy consumption has stimulated activity in the fields of 
coal and oil extraction and in energy conversion and usage systems such as coal 
gasifiers and high- temperature gas turbine engines. The role of fracture mechan- 
ics in these fields has grovm, pointing to the specific need for standard test 
methods for determining the plane strain fracture toughness Ki c of brittle non- 
metallic materials, principally rocks and ceramics. 

Current fracture tests make use of a variety of specimen types (single edge bend, 
double torsion, double cantilever bend, and surface flawed specimens) having 
either blunt notches produced by saw cutting, or cracks produced by wedge loading, 
indenting, or local thermal shock. Specimens with blunt notches can overestimate 
Kj c . Precracked specimens are difficult to prepare in a reproducible manner, and 
the initial crack front often cannot be seen on the fracture surface after test- 
ing, making it nearly impossible to measure the initial crack length. These 
current difficulties can be overcome by using a specimen containing a chevron 
notch in which a crack originates at the tip of the triangular ligament during 
loading. Specimens with a chevron notch were first used by Nakayama [ll in work of 
fracture studies, and later by Tattersall and Tappin [2] for fracture - surface 
energy measurements. More recently, Barker [ 3 j has proposed a chevron-notch 
specimen for plane strain fracture toughness measurement. The essential features 
of the chevron-notch specimen are that (1) a sharp natural crack is produced 
during the early stage of test loading (no precracking is required) and (2) the 
load passes through a maximum at a constant material-independent crack length-to- 
width ratio for a specific specimen geometry (no post-testcrack length measurement 
is required). For materials with flat crack growth resistance curves, the plane 
strain fracture toughness Kj c * is proportional to the maximum test load, and a 
function of the specimen geometry and elastic compliance. 

A development program on three chevron-notch specimens (short bar, short rod, and 
four-point-bend (see Figure l))has been underway at the NASA- Lewis Research Center 
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A. , for the past three years. Stress intensity factor co- 
efficients have been developed, both analytically and experimentally, and frac- 
ture toughness measurements on Si 3 N4 and AI2O3 have been made to assess the per- 
formance of each specimen type. Due to page limitations in this volume, only the 
short bar configuration will be treated in this paper. Results for the other two 
configurations may be found in references [4] through [7] . 

STRESS INTENSITY FACTOR 


The chevron notch (Figure 1 ) is characterized by the notch length at 

surface, a ^ ; the notch length to the tip of the chevron, a 0 ; and the 

width, W, and thickness, B. The shaded areas in Figure 1 represents 

length a. The crack front length b is a -a 0 a -a 0 

b = B = B 

a r a 0 a r a 0 

where a = a/W, a 0 = a 0 /W, and aj = aj/W 


the specimen 
specimen 
cracks of 

( 1 ) 


*NASA~Lewis Research Center, Cleveland, Ohio, 44135 , U.S.A. 

**Universitat Karlsruhe and Kernforschungszentrum Karlsruhe, Karlsruhe, FR Germany 


2 


The relation between maximum load P max and fracture toughness K Ic *is obtained by 
equating the available and the necessary energies for crack propagation. The 
energy available to extend the crack a small increment Aa is 

P 2 d Ctr 

AU « . . Aa (2) 

2K da 


where C tr is the elastic compliance of the chevron-notch specimen; the subscript 
"tr" denoting the fact that in the chevron-notch specimen, the crack proceeds 
through the chevron notch such that the two together constitute a discontinuity 
with a trapezoidal front. The energy necessary to extend the crack by the in- 
crement Aa is „ ? 

*uc 


AW = Gj c • b • Aa = 


b • Aa 


E' 


(3) 


with elastic modulus E l = E for plane stress and E' 
During crack extension, AU = AW, leading to 
f (dC tr /da)E'l ** r 


= P L~ 

where C^ r = E* B(^ r 


2lVb 


= JL 

b/Tv 


1 • fir 

2 da 


is the dimensionless compliance. 


y* 


JL . ii£tr . a l ~ a o | 
2 da a ~a Q i 


= E/(1-v 2) for plane strain?* 


h 


. ai ~ a ° 
a -a 0 

The term 


(4) 


(5) 


is the dimensionless stress intensity factor coefficient. Maximum load occurs 
at the minimum of the term in brackets, and is designated Y* m , 


*The authors recognize that the designation Kj c is customarily reserved for that 
value of plane strain fracture toughness determined in strict accordance with the 
ANSI/ASTM E-399 Standard Test Method for Plane - Strain Fracture Toughness of 
Metallic Materials. However, for materials with flat crack growth resistance 
curves (i.e., extremely brittle materials), we believe the chevron-notch speci- 
men would yield a plane strain fracture toughness value fully equivalent to Kj c 
of the E-399 test., and without the encumbrances of post-test crack length mea- 
surement and secant-line construction on the test record; therefore, the tough- 
ness values obtained in this investigation are designated Kj c . 

**There is some uncertainty about the usage of the plane strain or plane stress 
relation when stress intensity factors are derived from compliance measurements 
[8 ! . Whereas there is plane strain in the immediate vicinity of the notch at 
mid - thickness , the bulk of the specimen is nearer the plane stress state. There- 
fore, Brown and Srawley (V) have proposed to omit the (1 -v^) term for E'. 


3 


i: 

•o 

\ : 


There are no available analytical solutions for the chevron-notch short bar spec- 
imen stress intensity factor coefficient. However, as a first approximation it 
can be assumed that dC't r /da for t lie chevron notch with a crack is identical to 
that dC/du for a straight-through crack# This approximation is referred to as 
the "straight-through crack assumption", STCA. Using the relation for a straight- 
through crack 


where 




v _ KB^r* 
' T— 


C6) 


Eqs . 


(4) and (5) can be rewritten 


K 


Ic 




( 7 ) 


and 





(S) 


where Y* is the chevron-notch and Y the straight-through crack specimen coef- 
ficients. 


The dimensionless stress intensity factor coefficient for the short bar specimen 
with a straie lit- through crack is [lOj ; 


Y = 


U -a) 


3/2 


In exp 


+ exp 1 


2.702 


+ 1 


.628 


r 12 w 5 a-q) 5 ~i 5 r 1+ 

_ H* J [_ a 0'/H) J 


(9) 


To check the validity of the straight-through crack assumption, a series of 
short bar experimental compliance measurements were made [lOj . The compliance 
specimens were machined in the L-T crack plane orientation from 7075-T651 
aluminum plate to the dimensions shown in Figure 2a for W/H ratios of 3 and 4. 

A 17.8 mm slot was machined into the front face to accommodate loading knife 
edges (Figure 2b) . The displacements measurements were made with a modified ASTM 
E-399 clip-in gage as shown in Figure 2c. Hardened steel cones were fastened to 
the inner surfaces of the displacement gage arms and set into small indentations 
in the top and bottom of the specimens [6J. A 0.6 mm slot was extended incre- 
mentally to simulate an advancing crack in the specimen. 


The compliance results for specimen proportioned W/H = 4 are presented as func- 
tions of the notch parameters ot 0 in Figures 3 and aj in Figure 4. The results 
for specimen proportioned W/H = 3 were, of course, quite similar. The compli- 
ance curves were differentiated to obtain dC'^/da for substitution into Eq. (5) 



■■■■ .*# 




for the stress intensity factor coefficient Y*. Y*'s obtained in this way from 
Figure 3 are compared in Figure 5 with Y*'s obtained analytically using the STCA 
relation of Eqs. (8) and (9), 

In the region of the curve minima, designated Y* m and indicated by arrows to the 
curves, the experimental and analytical results agree extraordinarily well: less 

than 4 percent difference for the greatest initial crack length (00=0,495), and 
less than 1 percent difference for the two shorter initial crack lengths, As 
expected, the minima decrease and broaden with decreasing a 0 . Location of the 
minima at corresponding to maximum load (and Y* m ) varies in such a way that 
the quantity (Oj n -a 0 ), which is the relative crack extension up to maximum load, 
passes through a maximum as shown in Figure 6. 

Experimental results showing the influence of on Y* are shown in Figure 7. 
Decreasing a* lowers the curves and, at a= aj, the chevron-notch specimen curves 
join the curve for a straight-through crack specimen. According to the straight- 
through crack assumption, the location of the curve minima should not vary; e.i. 

the relative crack length at maximum load o^, should be independent of ai (shown 

by differentiating Eq. (8) with respect to a for a = o^). Experimentally, 
however, a m will vary with aj, and this too is predictable from the differen- 
tiation of Eq. (8) , This dependence of a, n on produces a continuous rise 
in the amount of relative crack extension up to maximum load (ctm-cxo) as a func- 
tion of ai as shown in Figure 8. 

The minimum values V* m of Y* are used in conjunction with P ma x to compute Kj c . 
Since no practical difference was observed between the experimental and ana- 
lytical Y* m values, and for the sake of computational simplicity, the STCA values 
were used for all Kj c calculations in the toughness measurements portion of this 

study. Under the STCA, Kj c for the short bar specimen may be expressed: 


K Ic 


P Y* 
B/W 


( 10 ) 


Substituting P ma?c for P and Y* m for Y*, K Ic is obtained from maximum load with 
no need for cracK length measurement. For specimens with aj = 1, and in the 
range 3 £ W/H £4 and 0.2 £ a 0 £ 0.5, Y* m may be expressed; 


Y* = 
m 


4.08+ 3.95 (-g-) + 0.50 (|-) 2 + £-23. 15 + 1 . 15 £-g) + 1.30 (-jJ-) 2 J \ 

T , . 21 1 

+ 172.5 - 43.5 (■§•) + 3,0 (-g-) Jo^j O D 


This equation is in agreement with the analytical Y*,- from Eq. ( 8)_j„within 
£ 0. 3 ? o. For 0£ < 1, Eq. (11) must be multiplied by j(ai - a 0 )/(l-a 0 )J 2 


FRACTURE TOUGHNESS MEASUREMENTS 

Two materials were investigated; Norton Company NC-132 hot pressed silicon 
nitride (SijN^ and 3M Company Alsimag-614 sintered aluminum oxide (AI2O3). The 
SijN4 was acquired as 150 mm x 150 mm x 10 mm thick plate; the AI2O3 as bars 
12. 7 mm x 12. 7 mm x 29.2 mm and 25.4 mm x 25.4 mm x 54.6 mm. Short bar specimens 
were machined to the dimensions shown in Figure 9. Chevron notches were produced 
by diamond-impregnated wire sawing or by diamond wheel slotting. Details re- _ _ 
garding specimen preparation and test procedure have been given in reference U-U • 


5 


RESULTS 

The plane strain fracture toughness of Si 3 N 4 determined with short bar specimens 
of on = 1.0 and 0,17 <_ a 0 < 0.48 is plotted in Figure 10 . A value of Kj c 

equal to 4.64 +_ 0.11 MNm ”-3/2 appears well established and independent of the 
dimension a 0 . The limited amount of data shown in Figure 11 for specimens with 
a 0 = 0.20 and 0.50 <_ cq £ 0.99 suggests independence of on aj as well, and 

substantiates the mean Ki c value obtained from the data of Figure 10. 

The aluminum oxide chevron-notch short bar specimen geometries varied in a 0 , ax, 
W/H and absolute size (see Figure 9). Plane strain fracture toughness results 
are shown in Figures 12 and 13. For chevron notches with aj = 1, there is a 
small downward trend in Kj c with increasing initial relative crack length Oq 
(F igure 12 ). Over the range investigated, this effect is less than 4 percent. 

A more interesting feature is the strong dependence of Kj c on specimen thickness 
and width- to-half height ratio. Comparing mean values of Kj c , the thickness 
effect appears about double that of the W/H ratio. The results for W/H = 4 
exceed those for W/H = 3 by 6 percent for B = 25.4 mm and by 10 percent for 
B = 12.7 mm. The results for B = 25.4 mm exceed those for B = 12.7 mm by 15 
percent for W/H = 4 and by 18 percent for W/H = 3. 

The largest effect was produced by variation in the relative length of the 
chevron notch at the specimen surface, ax (Figure 13), Kj c drops nearly 25 per- 
cent with decreasing ax in the range investigated. 

PRACTICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF RESULTS 


Implicit in the STCA, and underlying the theoretical base for the chevron notch 
specimen, is the presumption of a flat crack growth resistance curve for the 
material tested. When this condition is not met, the chevron-notch specimen will 
yield K Ic values which vary with specimen geometry and size, and therefore is of 
questionable usefulness in its present state of development. It would appear 
that the Si 3 N ’4 tested in this program does satisfy the requirement of a flat 
crack growth resistance curve and therefore demonstrates the usefulness of the 
chevron-notch short bar specimen for plane strain fracture toughness evaluation 
of this material. 

In contrast, the A1 2 0 3 material appears to have a rising crack growth resistance 
curve, as evidenced*"by the size and geometry dependence of its measured Ki c . 

Since Kj c is calculated from maximum load, its value will depend on the amount 
of crack extension up to maximum load, and this will vary with chevron notch 
geometry (see Figures 6 and 8 ), specimen size, and specimen proportions, W/H. 

The effect is to vary the point on the rising crack growth resistance curve at 
which maximum load occurs. Dependence of the notch parameters a 0 and ax on the 
amount of crack growth up to maximum load for the two series of AI 2 O 3 specimens 
in Figures 12 and 13, is shown in corresponding Figures 6 and 8 . The results 
of Figure 12 wherein a 0 is the controlling chevron notch parameter are plotted 
in Figure 14 in terms of the crack extension up to maximum load, and provide in 
effect a gradually rising crack growth resistance curve. A similar exercise 
involving the data of Figure 13 (ax variable) results in the plot of Figure 15. 
Surprisingly, the curve of Figure 15, reflecting change in ax, is much steeper 
than that of Figure 14 for change in a 0 , At this juncture, the authors can 
offer no explanation for this difference, but clearly the basic effect is due to 
a rising crack growth resistance curve for the AI 2 O 3 material tested. 

The range of a 0 's investigated was for each specimen size and proportions 
tested, in the segment of negative slope of the (c^ - a 0 ) vs a 0 curves of 
Figure 6 . It would appear that the slight downward trend of Kj c with increasing 


.. . » 1 ii.-'S*. -I .;. i-. 1 : , .. -i-M. 


6 


S- 


i 


r 


f 



a 0 in Figure 12 is due to this effect, although it is surprisingly small compared 
to the aj effect in Figure 13 which is due to no greater trend in ( a m - a 0 ) vs 
ai in Figure 8, 

The authors feel the results of this investigation are precautionary in the use 
of the chevron notch specimen for materials with rising crack growth resistance 
curves. Tests of any material for its plane strain fracturo toughness cannot be 
considered conclusive unless specimens of more than one geometry and/or size give 
the same result. 

It would appear also from the results that there is a preferred chevron geometry; 
namely, a 0 = 0.2 and 04 = 1.0. Those correspond to the maximum amount of crack 
extension up to maximum load, and therefore should provide the greatest stability 
of the crack front at the measurement point. This would also provide for the 
greatest sensitivity to non-flat crack growth resistance curves, and be most 
selective in applicability of the test, which at this time must be restricted to 
flat crack growth resistance-type materials. 

REFERENCES 

1. J. Nakayama, "Direct Measurement of Fracture Energies of Brittle Heterogeneous 
Materials", J. Am. Ceram, Soc., 48:11 (1965), pp. 583-587. 

2. H. G. Tattersall and G. Tappin, "The Work of Fracture and Its Measurement in 
Metals, Ceramics and other Materials", J. Mater. Sci., 1:3 (1966), pp.296- 
301. 

3. L. M. Barker, "A Simplified Method for Measuring Plane Strain Fracture 
Toughness", Eng, Fracture Mech, , 9:2 (1977) pp. 361-369. 

4. D. Munz, R. T. Bubsey, and J. L. Shannon, Jr., "Fracture Toughness Determina- 
tion of AI2O3 Using Four-Point-Bend Specimens with Straight-Through and 
Chevron Notches", J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 63:5-6 (1980), pp. 300-305. 

5. D. Munz, J. L. Shannon, Jr. and R, T. Bubsey, "Fracture Toughness Calculation 
from Maximum Load in Four Point Bend Tests of Chevron Notch Specimens", to be 
published in Int. J. Fracture. 

6. R. T. Bubsey, D. Munz, W. S. Pierce, and J. L. Shannon, Jr., "Compliance 
Calibration of the Short Rod Chevron-Notch Specimen for Fracture Toughness 
Testing of Brittle Materials", to be published in Int. J. Fracture. 

7. Paper on plane strain fracture toughness determinations on A1 2 C>3 using the 
short rod chevron-notch specimen in preparation. 

8. R. T. Bubsey, D. M. Fisher, M. H. Jones and J. E. Srawley, "Compliance 
Measurements", Experimental Techniques in Fracture Mechanics , S.E.S.A. 
Monograph 1, A. S. Kobayashi, ed., Iowa State Univ. Press and Society 
for Experimental Stress Analysis, Cambridge (1976), pp. 76-95. 

9. W. F. Brown, Jr. and J. E. Srawley, Plane Strain Crack Toughness Testing of 
High Strength Metallic Materials , ASTM STP 410, Am. Soc. for Testing & 
Materials, Philadelphia (1967). 

10. D. Munz, R. T. Bubsey, and J. E. Srawley, "Compliance and Stress Intensity 
Coefficients for Short Bar Specimens with Chevron Notches", Int. J. Fracture, 
16:4 (1980), pp. 359-374. 


n • nrz. 




7 


IX. D. Munz, R. T. Bubsey, and J, L. Shannon, Jr., "Performance of Chevron-Notch 
Short Bar Specimen in Determining the Fracture Toughness of Silicon Nitride 
and Aluminum Oxide", J. Test. Kvai., 8 ; 3 (1980), pp. 103-107. 




- ■ 





















STRAIGHT-THROUGH NOTCH 


Y* - Chevron Notch 
Y - Straight-Through Notch 


Experimentally determined a tress intensity factor coefficient for 
short bar specimens of W/H 4 containing either a chevron notch 
of a. a 0.2 or a straight-through notch. 


Figure 8. - Relative crack extension fa - a ) at the minimum value of Y* 

in o 

as a function of a- for short b&r chevron-notch specimens of W/H » 4 and 


^ 0 • 2 • 
o 



























Will (J| 

4.0 1.0 

3.0 10 

4.0 1.0 

3.0 10 


-'-"V 

o 


<“m " "o> " "*• 

Figure 14# - Variation in K Ic of sintered aluminum oxide (Alsimag«6l4) with 
amount of crack extension up to maximum load for abort bar chevron-notch 
specimens of ** 1 in two thicknesses and W/ll proportions, and variable 
chevron notch angle as obtained by varying the initial crack lengthy , 


t B - mini VWH I o n 


Figure 15. - Variation in K^ c of sintered aluminum oxide 
(Alsimag-614) with amount of crack extension up to maximum 
load for short bar chevron-notch specimens of W/H « 4, 
ci 0 a 0.2, and variable chevron notch angle as obtained by 
varying a . 


