United States Patent [i9] 

Oeffinger et al. 


[ii] 

[45] 


4,056,813 

Nov. 1, 1977 


[54] PASSIVE CHEVRON REPLICATOR 

[75] Inventors: Thomas R. Oeffinger, Placentia; 

Leonard R. Tocci, Laguna Niguel, 
both of Calif. 

[73] Assignee: Rockwell International Corporation, 

El Segundo, Calif. 

[21] Appl. No.: 623,681 

[22] Filed: Oct. 20, 1975 

[51] Int.C1.2 G11C 11/02 

[52] U.S. Q 365/12; 365/43 

[58] Field of Search 340/174 BG, 174 TF 

[56] References Cited 

U.S. PATENT DOCUMENTS 

3,727,197 4/1973 Chang 340/174 BG 

3,810,133 5/1974 Bobeck 340/174 BG 

3,832,701 8/1974 Bobeck 340/174 TF 

3,868,661 2/1975 Bonyhard 340/174 BG 

Primary Examiner — Thomas B. Habecker 


Attorney , Agent, or Firm — L. Lee Humphries; H. 
Fredrick Hamann; G. Donald Weber, Jr. 

[57] ABSTRACT 

There is described a passive replicator device to be used 
in magnetic bubble domain systems. The replicator is 
passive, i.e., does not require am active element such as 
a current source or the like, and both propagates and 
replicates bubble domains. In a preferred embodiment, 
the replicator uses chevron type elements arranged in 
an appropriate pattern so as to interact with a pair of 
propagation paths wherein bubble domains are propa- 
gated. A bubble in one propagation path is routinely 
transferred therealong and, concurrently, replicated by 
the instant device into another propagation path. A 
plurality of elements arranged in juxtaposition to the 
chevrons assists in controlling the propagation of the 
bubbles through the respective propagation paths and, 
at the appropriate time, provides a cutting action 
wherein a bubble which is elongated between the chev- 
rons of the two propagation paths is split into two sepa- 
rate bubbles. 

12 Claims, 2 Drawing Figures 






4 , 056,813 


1 

PASSIVE CHEVRON REPLICATOR 

The invention described herein was made in the per- 
formance of work under NASA Contract No. NASI- 
12981 and is subject to the provision of Section 305 of 
the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 (72 
Stat. 435; 42 USC 2457). 

BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 

1. Field of the Invention 

This invention is related to magnetic bubble domain 
devices and in particular is related to switching devices 
wherein magnetic bubble domains are replicated (i.e., 
reproduced) in a passive manner. 

2. Description of Prior Art 

With the advent of magnetic bubble domain devices 
and systems utilizing such devices, various and sundry 
individual elements for performing various logic and/or 
other operational functions have been developed. One 
of the devices that has been developed is a so-called 
replicator switch. In the replicator switch a bubble is 
typically propagated along a first propagation path. The 
bubble is acted upon in such a manner that the bubble is 
split into two separate bubbles, one of which continues 
along the original path and the other one of which 
traverses a new propagation path. However, many of 
these replicator switches have the disadvantage that a 
current conductor is required to sever the bubble into 
the two separate bubbles. This disadvantage is impor- 
tant insofar as power requirements, number of leads to 
the device, geometry and total area of the system are 
concerned. 

SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION 

The invention comprises a passive replicator having 
at least two columns of chevrons oppositely directed 
and offset from each other. At least one forming ele- 
ment which is substantially parallel to one column of 
chevrons and extends into juxtaposition to the other 
column of chevrons. An additional forming element can 
be utilized in conjunction with the first mentioned form- 
ing element to assure proper operation of the replicator. 
Each of the chevron columns can be associated with a 
separate propagation path for bubble domains. 

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 

FIG. 1 is a schematic representation of a bubble do- 
main device arrangement which forms the passive re- 
plicator of the instant invention. 

FIG. 2 is a graphic representation of the rotating, 
in-plane magnetic field applied to the arrangement 
shown in FIG. 1. 

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED 
EMBODIMENT 

Referring to FIG. 1, it is seen that a pair of propaga- 
tion paths are suggested. The first propagation path 
(indicated by arrows A and B) may be considered to 
form a portion of a storage area or a portion of a propa- 
gation path associated with the stoargae area or the like. 
Typically, this propagation path is the main path 
through which a bubble is propagated. This propaga- 
tion path includes chevron columns 10, 11, 12 and 13 as 
well as any suitable number of additional chevron col- 
umns. 

The other propagation path (indicated by arrow D) 
may be considered to be a propagation path wherein the 
bubble is propagated to a detector, to a guardrail or to 


2 

another bubble domain device of any type. The further 
utilization of the bubbles after passing through the re- 
plicator/transfer switch is, essentially immaterial to the 
invention. The second propagation path is represented 
5 by chevron column 14. 

The replicator switch is represented by chevron col- 
umns 15 and 16 as well as forming elements or pusher 
bars 17 and 18. It is noted that chevron columns 15 and 
16 are relatively elongated with respect to the chevron 
10 columns in the remainder of the propagation paths. The 
precise number of chevrons in columns 15 and 16 is a 
function of the type of material used to support the 
bubble domains, the mobility characteristic thereof and 
various other operating parameters which are known in 
15 the art. As different materials are utilized along with 
different operating parameters and systems, the number 
of chevrons required in columns 15 and 16 will vary 
with design. 

However, it is noted that chevron columns 15 and 16 
20 are oppositely directed, i.e., the apices of the chevrons 
in the respective columns are pointed in generally oppo- 
site directions. Of course, it is possible that the apices 
can be arranged in other than completely opposite di- 
rections. In addition, it is noted that the chevron col- 
25 umns 15 and 16 are offset relative to each other. In the 
preferred embodiment, the ends of one of the chevrons, 
in this example chevron column 16, are substantially 
aligned with the apices of the chevrons in the other 
chevron column, i.e., column 15, 

30 The main pusher bar 17 is located adjacent the ends of 
the chevrons in column 16 and is aligned substantially 
continuously with the projected line of the apices of the 
chevrons in column 15. One end of the pusher bar 17 is 
positioned relatively close to the apex of the last chev- 
35 ron in column 15. The other end of pusher bar 17 ex- 
tends beyond the extent of column 16. 

In a preferred embodiment having improved operat- 
ing characteristics, chevron 15A, i.e., the chevron adja- 
cent to one end of pusher bar 17 and to the end chevron 
40 in column 16, has a foreshortened leg as described here- 
inafter. In addition, pusher bar 18 is disposed at an angle 
to pusher bar 17 on the side opposite from chevron 
column 16. One end of pusher bar 18 is disposed adja- 
cent to that end of pusher bar 17 which is positioned 
45 adjacent to column 15. However, the end of pusher bar 
18 is removed somewhat from chevron 15A of chevron 
column 15 wherein the effect thereof is somewhat less 
significant than pusher bar 17. 

Describing the operation of the device, concurrent 
50 reference is made to FIGS. 1 and 2. Initially, it is as- 
sumed that no bubbles are present in the system. A 
bubble from a storage area or the like is applied to the 
first propagation path in the direction indicated by the 
arrow A. The bubble propagates through chevron col- 
55 umns 10 and 11 in the usual manner. In addition, the 
bubble will propagate through chevron columns 15, 12 
and 13 in the usual manner with the additional feature 
that the bubble is expanded as it passes through column 
15. Thus, a standard transfer operation occurs. As a 
60 result, the replicator switch of this invention operates as 
a propagation device as well and as a replicator switch. 

In order to understand the replicate action of the 
switch, it is assumed that a bubble has been transferred 
to column 15 in the normal manner. The bubble is ex- 
65 panded along the leftmost edge of the chevrons of col- 
umn 15. This operation occurs; when the rotating mag- 
netic field H* is in position P as shown in FIG. 2. As 
H/? rotates, magnetic poles are formed in the various 


3 

structural devices shown in FIG. 1 in the normal man- 
ner. However, assuming that no other bubble exists, no 
action is observed until field H R reaches the position S 
shown in FIG. 2. At that time, a relatively strong pole 
is formed at the bottom of pusher bar 17 wherein the 5 
bubble expands to include this pole. 

At time T, the attractive pole of column 15 has moved 
slightly away from the apices of the chevrons. Typi- 
cally, the poles in column 16 are sufficiently stong to 
cause the bubble in column 15 and pusher bar 17 to be 10 
stripped out and expanded along the apices (or even the 
right ends) of column 15 and the right ends of the chev- 
rons of column 16. 

As field H* continues to rotate, it reaches the position 
M (see FIG. 2) wherein a strong pole is achieved at the 15 
right ends of the chevrons of column 15 and a relatively 
weak pole is achieved at the apices of column 16. Con- 
sequently, the bubble takes the configuration suggested 
in dashed outline 101 . 

As the field H* continues to rotate and achieves the 20 
position N (FIG. 2) a strong negative pole is achieved at 
the bottom end of pusher bar 18. This negative pole has 
the effect of generally repelling bubble 101 which is 
stretched between columns 15 and 16. This pole, while 
relatively strong, because of the geometry involved 25 
merely repels the bubble wherein the bubble remains 
substantially between chevron 15A of column 15 and 
the lower end of pusher bar 17. 

As field H* reaches position O, a strong negative pole 
is produced at the lower end of pusher bar 17. This 30 
strong pole is in the immediate vicinity of bubble 101 
and has the effect of repelling bubble 101 to such an 
extent that the bubble is actually severed in the region 
between chevron columns 15 and 16 and pusher bar 17. 
The bottom portion of the severed bubble tends to re- 35 
main substantially at the right ends of chevron column 
15 (a pole is produced by H R in the N position). The 
upper portion of the bubble tends to move toward the 
apices of chevron column 16 (a pole is produced there 
also by H* in the N position). As field H* rotates to 40 
position O, the upper bubble is more strongly urged to 
the apices of the chevrons of column 16. Thereafter, the 
bubbles in chevron columns 16 and 15 propagate along 
the respective propagation paths in response to field H*. 

In this instance, the bubbles propagate in opposite direc- 45 
tions under the influence of rotating field H R . 

Thus, it is seen that there has been shown and de- 
scribed a simplified, passive replicator/transfer device. 
This device is relatively simple in construction, requires 
no current pulse or signal to establish bubble propaga- 50 
tion and/or replication, permits bubbles to be propa- 
gated in opposite directions with a minimum transition 
device structure and in a minimum operating cycle 
time. Of course, it is apparent to those skilled in the art 
that minor adjustments may be made to the placement 55 
of respective elements and in the design of some of the 
elements. The design or placement of these elements 
may improve efficiency or other operating parameters 
in a particular mode of operation or circuit design. The 
illustrated embodiment is intended to be illustrative 60 
only and is not intended to be limitative of the inven- 
tion. Any modification or change which occurs to those 
skilled in the art and which falls within the purview of 
the inventive concept is intended to be included in this 
description as well. The scope of the invention is limited 65 
only in accordance with the claims appended hereto. 

Having thus described the invention, what is claimed 
is: 


4 

1. A magnetic bubble domain device comprising 

means for establishing a magnetic bubble domain, 

a first pattern of magnetizable means for propagating 
a magnetic bubble domain in response to an applied 
magnetic field, 

a second pattern of magnetizable means for propagat- 
ing a magnetic bubble domain in response to said 
applied magnetic field, 

said first and second patterns lying in an overlapping 
offset relation to each other, and 

at least one elongated magnetizable element arranged 
in a side-by-side relationship with said second pat- 
tern and in an end-to-end relationship with said first 
pattern in order to selectively interpose a magnetic 
pole between said first and second patterns, which 
pole first attracts and then repels a magnetic bubble 
domain propagating through said first and second 
patterns such that said magnetic bubble domain is 
divided into two separate magnetic bubble domains. 

2. A device recited in claim 1 wherein each of said 
first and second patterns of magnetizable means com- 
prises a column having a plurality of chevrons, 

said overlapping offset relation of said first and sec- 
ond patterns defined by having the ends of one 
column of chevrons substantially colinear with the 
apices of the other column of chevrons. 

3. The device recited in claim 2 wherein each of said 
columns of chevrons is oppositely directed relative to 
each other. 

4. The device recited in claim 3 wherein said oppo- 
sitely directed chevrons have the apices pointing away 
from each other. 

5. The device recited in claim 2 wherein at least one 
of the chevrons in one of the columns adjacent to the 
other column has one arm portion shorter than the 
other arm portion. 

6. The device recited in claim 1 wherein said at least 
one elongated magnetizable element comprises an elon- 
gated strip device which is longer than said second 
pattern of magnetizable means which is arranged side- 
yy-side therewith. 

7. The device recited in claim 1 including 

a second elongated magnetizable element which is 
arranged at an angle relative to said at least one 
elongated magnetizable element and has one end 
thereof adjacent to the end of said at least one elon- 
gated magnetizable element which is disposed adja- 
cent to said first pattern of magnetizable means. 

8. The magnetic bubble domain device recited in 
claim 1 wherein, 

said means for establishing a magnetic bubble domain 
comprises, 

a layer of material which supports magnetic bubble 
domains therein, 

and 

field means for supplying magnetic fields to said layer 
of material. 

9. The magnetic bubble domain device recited in 
claim 8 wherein, 

said first and second patterns of magnetizable means 
and said elongated magnetizable element are all 
supported by a common surface of said layer of 
material. 

10. A passive replicator for magnetic bubble domains 
comprising, 

a first column of magnetizable chevron elements asso- 
ciated with a first propagation path, 


4,056,813 



4 , 056,813 


5 

a second column of magnetizable chevron elements 
associated with a second propagation path, 
said first and second columns of magnetizable chev- 
ron elements arranged in an overlapping array such 
that the ends of the chevrons in said first column are 5 
aligned approximately with the apices of the chev- 
rons in said second columns, and 
an elongated magnetizable bar element arranged to be 
substantially parallel to said first column of magne- 
tizable chevron elements and aligned with the api- 10 
ces of the chevrons in said second column so as to 
selectively provide an attracting pole and repelling 
pole at the end thereof to split a magnetic bubble 


6 

domain stretched between said first and second 
columns of magnetizable chevron elements. 

11. The passive replicator recited in claim 10 wherein 
said first propagation path is comprised of a plurality 

of columns of chevrons, 

said second propagation path is comprised of a further 
plurality of columns of chevrons. 

12. The passive replicator recited in claim 10 wherein 
said first column of magnetizable chevron elements 

expands a magnetic bubble domain in a direction 
transverse to said first propagation path. 

* * * * * 


15 


20 


25 


30 


35 


40 


45 


50 


55 


60 


65 



