

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 

MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND CIVIL AVIATION 
(COMMISSION OF RAILWAY SAFETY) 




yV 

\to 


'V 


RAILWAY ACCIDENT 
INVESTIGATION 

REPORT 


On 


I 




THE ACCIDENT THAT OCCURRED TO 
UNAUTHORISED TRAVELLERS ON THE ENGINE AND ROOFS OF 

COACHES OF 

NO. II4 UP MADURAI - MADRAS JANATA EXPRESS 

BETWEEN 


l/o\J 


% 


VALLAMPADUGAI & CHIDAMBARAM STATIONS^ 

! SOUTHERN RAILWAY { 

-■ Yf' ' ON { 

4TH FEBRUARY, 1969 



G 0 R R I G E N D U M 


page 

Eo. 

Paj 

No. 

ra 

Line ' 
No. 

P 0 r 

Read 

5 

12(2; 

i 

3 

Ti ru ch ch i app al li 

Ti r u ch chi rapp all i 

6 

15(1] 

I 

9 

he roof 

the roof 

6 

15(1] 

I 

10 

idges 

bridges 

7 

16(4] 

) 

2 

If 

It 

8 

19(1 ] 

I 

3 

head 

heed 

8 

20(1] 


3 

Ikslenoon 

coleroon 

9 

23 


3 

‘ff 

off 

9 

25 


2 

purchase on 

purchase one on 



SUMMARY 


I, Date 

а. Time 

3. Railway . 

4. Gaujc 

5. Location , 

б . Nature of accident 

7, Train involved. 

8, Gomisting of . 
g. Engine No. 

10, Estimated speed 

11. Method of working 

12. Gradient 

13, Alignment 
14 Weather 

15. Casualties 

16, Parties held responsibl; 


4th February, 1969. 

About 9.45 hours. 

Southern. 

Metre (3'—3'3/8')- 

At Bridge No. 685 between Vallampadugai and Gh 
dambaram stations. 

Roof travellers being struck by the overhead bracii^ 
of the bridge. 

Train No. 114 UP ‘‘Madurai-Madras Janat 
Express”. 


Steam engine hauling 11 bogie Passenger coaches. 
Steam Locomotive No. YP 2808. 

Slowly—the speed could not be estimated. 

Absolute Block System of working. 

Level. 

Straight. ‘ ’ 

Clear morning. 

I 

37 dead, 16 with grievous injuries and 22 with simple 
injuries. 

The roof travellers themselves. 


l-^CRSLiicfc ./70 




GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
MINISTRY OF TOURISM & CIVIL AVIATION 

(COMMISSION OF RAILWAY SAFETY) 


From ; The Additional Commissioner of Railway Safely, 
Southern Circle, 

BANGALORE. 

To : The Secretary to the Government of India, 

Ministry of Tourism & Civil Aviation, 

NEW DELHI. 

Through ; The Commissioner of Railway Safety, 
LUCKNOW. 


Sir, 

In accordance with Rule ro of the Railway Board’s Notification No. 59-TTV/42/1 dated 
the nth April 1966 I have the honour to report the result of my Inquiry into the accident that 
occurred to unauthorised travellers on the engine and roofs of coaches of No. 114 UP “Madurai- 
Madras Janata Express” between Vallampadugai and Chidambaram stations on the Villupu- 
ram-Tiruchchirappalli Main Line of the Southern Railway on the morning of the 4th February 
1969. 

An Inquiry into this accident was not obligatory according to the Rules, but in view of 
its serious nature, it was considered desirable to inquire into the same. 

2. Inspection and Eaquiry.i —Some of the injured were visited by me in the Cuddalore 
District Headquarters Hospital along with the Divisional Superintendent, Tiruchchirappalli 
on the evening of the 6th February. The evidence of 2 witnesses was then recorded. 

The site of the accident was inspected on the morning of the 7th February in company 
with the Deputy Chief Engineer (Bridges), Madras. The evidence of other witnesses was recorded 
at Chidambaram the same day. 

The Inquiry was continued at Mayuram on the 8th February, when the evidence of further 
witnesses was recorded. 

The Civil Authorities and the Police were advised about the Inquiry, and the following 
Officers, among others, were present at the saine:— 

(i) Shri C. V. B. Menon . Divisional Superintendent, Tiru- 6th, 7th & 8th Feb- 

chchirappalli ruary. 

(ii) Shii S. A. Farooki . . Superintendent of Rail way Police, 7th February 

T ir uchchirapp alii 

(iii) Shii R. V. Gopal . . Deputy Superintendent of Police, 7th February 

Chidambaram 


(iv) Shri A. V. Sreenivasan . Deputy Superintendent of Rail- 7th & 8th February, 

way Police, Madurai 


Note:—T he trems “front”, “rear”, “leading”, “trailing”, “left” and “right” where used arc with 
ncc to the direction of motion of the train. 


refere- 


1 



2 


I. PREAMBLE 

3. Brief Description of the accident.'—No. 114 UP “Madurai-Madras Janata Express”, 
which left Maduiai on the 3rd Februaiy, arrived at Coleroon at about 9-15 hours on the 4th 
February—about 9 hours late due to trouble enroute with a number of unauthorised tickelless pas¬ 
sengers travelling on the engine, on the foot-boards, and on the roof tops, proceeding to Madras 
to attend the funeral of Shri Annadurai, late Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. Attempts were made 
by the Railway staff to bring down the roof travellers, but although many got down, they apparent¬ 
ly got back on to the engine and on to the roofs of the carriages when the train left Coleroon a 
little later. The train passed through Vallampadugai without stopping, and, while passing over 
Bridge No. 685 at Km. 251/7-8 (2X 100 feet through girders) some of the roof travellers were 
struck by the overhead bracing of the girders resulting in several being killed outright and others 
being injured. 

4. Casoaities*—A.s a result of the accident 24 persons were killed on the spot and 51 were 
injured—29 grievously and 22 with simple injuries. Subsequently 13 of those grievously injured 
expired bringing the death-roll to 37. 

5. Composition of the train*---No. 114 UP “Express” consisted ofii bogie coaches 
hauled by a YP locomotive. The train was marshalled in the following order; 

Engine No. YP 2808; 

1st Coach GT 7927 .... Third Class; 

and Coach GT 3507 .... Third Class; 

3rd Coach GT 9919 .... Third Class; 

4th Coach GTCW 5221 . • . • Third Class 2-Tier Sleeper; 

5th Coach GTGN 4007 .... Third Class 3-Tier Sleeper; 

6th Coach GT 7902 .... Third Glass; 

7th Coach VP 9422 .... Parcel Van; 

8th Coach VPU 9110 .... Motor-cum-Parcel Van; 

9th Coach TER 6810 . . . . Third Class Luggage & Brake Van; 

Ioth Coach GTY 3817 . . • Third Class with Ladies Compartment; 

nth Coach GT loi75 . . • • Third Class. 

The train was fully vacuum-braked, and its length and weight were approximately 765 feet and 
480 tonnes, respectively (inclusive of the engine). 

All the coaches had steel bodies except No. VPU 9110, which bad a wooden body. 

The engine had a speedometer-cum-recorder, but the recorder was not functioning at the 
time as a new chart had not been inserted at Mayuram. 

6. Damage to Railway Property.—There was no derailment, nor did the bridge or 
train sustain any damage as a result of this accident. 

7. Number of Passengers.-—The seating capacity o.f No. 114 UP “Express” was 546. 
The tram was overcrowded, and it is possible that over 1000 passengers were travelling at the 
time. 


8 . Weather conditions.—It was a clear morning and visibility ahead was good. 







3 


n. RELIEF MEASURES 

9. First-aid and medical assistance. —Immediately after the accident occurred, some¬ 
body seems to have pulled the alarm chain, and the train came to a stop with the 2 end coaches 
on the bridge. The Guard got down at once, and, after the train was drawn ahead to clear the 
bridge, first aid was rendered to the injured, with the help of a number of scouts who were tra¬ 
velling in the train. The dead and injured were then put inside the train, which reached Chidam¬ 
baram at 11-05 hours. 

Prior to this information had been given about the accident over the telephone at the level 
crossing gate adjacent to the bridge w'here the accident occurred. The train was, therefore, met 
on its arrival at Chidambaram by the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Chidambaram, the 
Inspector of Police, Chidambaram and some local doctors with a lorry and an ambulance. The. 
doctors then immediately rendered further aid to the injured, all of whom (51 in all) were straight¬ 
way removed to the Chidambaram Government Hospital. 4 of these, however, expired before 
arrival at the Hospital, but the remaining 47 w'ere admitted. 

By 12-00 hours, the District Medical Officer, Cuddalore District Headquarters Hospital 
arrived with a team of doctors and the Superintendent of Police, Cuddalore. They immediately 
arranged for the transfer of 24 of the more seriously injured passengers to the Cuddalore District 
Headquarters Hospital by ambulances and lorry. Later, on the 5th February, 4 more of the 
injured were transferred from the Chidambaram Government Hospital to the Cuddalore District 
Headquarters Hospital, and the same day 2 of the injured w'cre tiansferred from the Cuddalore 
District Headquarters Hospital to the General Hospital, Madras. 


The remaining 19 injured in the Chidambaram Government Hospital were discharged 
on the evening of the 5th February. 

HI. LOCAL CONDITIONS 

10. Description of the site and method of working.— (i) The accident occurred 
at Km. 251/7-8 on Bridge No. 685 (2 X too feet through girders) between Vallampadugai and 
Chidambaram stations. The Divisional Headquarters and Control Offices are located at Tiru- 
chchirappalli. 

(ii) The kilometrage (reckoned from Madras Beach) of the various places mentioned in 
this report is detailed below : 

Kms. 


Villupuram 


162-8 


Cuddalore 

Chidambaram 

V allampadugai 

Goleroon 

Sirkazhi 

Mayuram 

Malliyara 

Kumbakonam 

Thanjavur , 

Tiruchchirappalli 

Madurai 

Rameswaram 


209-2 

247-5 

252-3 

254-9 

264-8 

284-5 

288-9 

315'G 

355-0 

404-8 (via Main Line) 
559-5 (via Main Line) 
668-8 (via Main Line) 








4 


(iii) The section between Mayaram and Guddalore is worked in accordance with the 
Absolute Block System by means of Neale’s Ball Token Instruments. Standard I multiple aspect 
upper quadrant signalling is in force on this section, except at Mayuram and Guddalore which 
are interlocked to Standard III and equipped with knver quadrant signaiiing. Trains procee¬ 
ding from Mayuram towards Cuddaiore are termed UP trains, and those proceeding from Gud¬ 
dalore to Mayuram DOWN trains. 

(iv) UP trains leaving Goleroon first have to negotiate a left hand i’4° curve immedia¬ 
tely on leaving the station. The line is then straight for about i kilometre after w^hich there is 
a right hand t • 4" curve. The approach to Bridge No. 685 is straight for about one kilometre 
from Km. 252/6. 

There are 3 through girder bridges between Goleroon and Ghidambaram stations, viz : 

(a) Bridge No. 687 (14X 150 feet through girders) over the New Goleroon river at Km. 

(b) Bridge No. 6B5 (2 x 100 feei through girders) over the Old Goleroon river at Km. 

251/7-8—where the accident occurred; 

(c) Bridge No. 675 (.2 x too feet through girders) over the Oopanar river at Km. 249/2-3. f 

The track on the section i.s on enrbankment throughout varying from 4 feet to 20 feet 
in height, and is stone ballasted, consisting ol 75 lbs. RBS rails laid on GS T 9 sleepers to density 
N plus 6 except the bridge approaches v.hich have wooden sleepers to density N plus 6, and over 
Bridge No. 687 where there arc 60 lbs. RbS rails. 

The approach to Bridge No. 685 is level from Km. 252/13. 

11. PemrissiMe Speeds,.—The maximum perrrdssiblc speed on the section is 75 Km. p.h. 
and the booked speed of No. 1 14 UP i.xpro.ss is 67'5 Km. p.h. 

There is a permanent speed restriction of 50 Km. p.h., over the facing points at Valkmpa- 
dugai Flag station, and on the day in question there was a temporary speed restriction of 
16 Km. p.h. betw^een Km. 249/3 and Knr. 248/12 due to screening of ballast. 

IV. SUMhJARY OF EVIDENCE 

12. Divisional Siipei mteadent, TirHcircKirappaili, Shri C. V. B. Menon in a state¬ 
ment drew attention to the i.nprccedentcd rush of people to Madras on the 3rd February. Un¬ 
like melas and other festivals there had been no prior warning, but special precautions were 
immediately taken by the Railway Adminisiraiion to watch the position, and to take whatever 
steps possible to cope with this sudden rirsli of people to Madras. 

The crowds collecting at Tiruduhirappaili that m.orning (3rd February) were in no 
mood to buy tickets for their journey, raid apparently expected the Railway to run special trains 
to Madras for them to travel widi mt tickets. In ihe absence of ihe Superintendent, Railway 
Police, who was said to be out of the s laioii that day, the Inspector, Railway Police, Tiruchchi- 
rappalli was contacted and asked to lake suitable action. The District Collector and Superin¬ 
tendent of Police, Tiruchch rappaili were also contacted and requested to render all possible 
assistance to disperse the crowd, ihe Security Officer (South), Tiruchchirappalli, and his Assistant 
Security Officer also being similarly contacted to go at once to the station and lake necessary 
actioxx. 

The Divisional Superin^ endent also went to the station (Tiruchchirappalli) wffiere he 
met the Revenue Divisional Officer, Tiruchchirappalli and the Town Deputy Superintendent 
of Police, who requested that the crovrei should be permitted to go to Mad.ras on paymiCnt of a 
nominal fare of Rupee I per liead; thi.s request v.'as naturally' not conceded. He pcr.snaded the 
Revenue Divisional Officer to appeal to the crow'd cither to buy'’ tickets for their journey to Ma¬ 
dras or to disperse from the station piremii cs. Meanw'hile, buses and lorries had been permitted 
by the local authorities to convey passengers to Madras and these were quoting rates as low as 
Rupees 3 per head. The crow'd, however, continued to remain at the station, but later 
some of the leaders of the crowd addi'essed them, requesting them to buy tickets or alternatively 



5 


to leave the station without causing any trouble and, as a result of this, most of the people then 
went away. Many also then bought tickets, so a special train with 11 bogie coaches was arranged 
for them to leave Tiruchchiappalli at 12-30 hours, after w'h'ch there was practically no trouble 
till the evening. 

A constant watch was also maintained throughout the day by the Operating and Com¬ 
mercial OlBcers, but there was no report from any statioir ind eating an abnormal sale of tickets, 
and, therefore, the necessity to run more special trains to Madras did not arise. 

Reports, however, continued to be received from various stations about overcrowding 
of trains by ticketless travellers. Special instruction.s were issued to all stations to keep a special 
watch on overcrowding and not to permit roof traveUing under any circumstances. Station 
Masters were instructed to take the assistamcc of the Radway Police and Railway Protection 
Force, wherever available, to control the crowds, and staff were also asked to take special pre¬ 
cautions and stop trains out of course at such stations where there v/ere bridges or other overhead 
structures ahead, warn all passengers about the over-he.ad .structir-es, and ensure that passengers 
did not travel on the roofs of the carriages. Further, special precautions were taken to stop all 
trains short ofVillupuram to make doubly sure that there w^ere no roof travellers as over-head ele¬ 
ctric traction commences from this station to Madras. 

Despite these precautions over-crowding persisted and attempts were made by crowds 
to board UP trains at Tiruchchirappa.lli and travel on the roofs of carriages and on the buffers 
of the coaches etc. With the help of the P.ailway Police and the R.ai!way Protection Force, how¬ 
ever, as many ticketless passengers as possbilc wct’c removed from UP trains, and it was ensured 
that all roof travellers were removed before UP tra.ins started from Tiruchchirappalli. 

As a result of all this and continued trouble with passengers en-routc, all UP trains ran 
abnormally late, and Train Crews, Station, E.ailway Protection Force, and Railway Police Staff 
had a very difficult time trying to regulate the crowd.s—most of whom were ticketless passengers. 

On the morning of the 4th February the Control Office at Tiruchchirappalli was informed 
that passengers were attempting to get on to the roofs of the coaches of Nos. 102 UP “Rameswa- 
ram—Madras Express” and No. 114 UP ‘‘Madurai—M id'as Janaha Express” while these trains 
were on the run and approaching Coteroon station. The Station Master, Coleroon was, there¬ 
fore, instructed by Control to stop both these trains out of course at Coleroon, warn the passengers 
of the danger of the bridges ahead, and to start the trains only after all rooi’ passengers had 
got down. Despite this, however, a little later Control I'cceived a report from Vallampadugai 
station that No. 114 UP ‘‘ Express ” had stopped near the gate lodge dose by since some roof 
travellers had been injured, and that some were even fe.ared to have been killed. 

Later that day on receipt of information of the accident, he proceeded by road to Chidam¬ 
baram, and, after visiting the injured at tlie hospitals at Chidambaram and Guddalore 
he went to Coleroon station where a large crowd of local people met him. These, 
it was subsequently seen, had only come to complain about the hooliganism and 
rowdyism of the ticketless passengers on No. 114 UP “Exjiress” and the looting and vandalism 
which they had indulged in. He was told by them that the passengers had not liked the train 
being stopped out of course at Coleroon station, and had, tlievefore, manhandled the Station 
Staff and the Train Crew and looted the refL-eshiueat sta'l on the platform and the wares of the 
vendors on the station road. According to them the un'uly crowd, who were travelling even in the 
Guard’s brake-van and on the engine of fJic train, had fo 'ced the Station Staff and the Train 
Crew to start the train immediately, threatening them virith dire consequences, including mur¬ 
der, if they did not. The passengers on the engine also got hold of the. regulator and threatened 
to run the train themselves after getting rid of the Train Grew, vrho were eventually forced to 
start the train—apparently out of fear for their lives and to prevent a serious catastrophe that 
might have resulted had the crowd on the engine taken it into their hands to start the train them¬ 
selves. 


13. Inspector, Railway Police, TiruchcMrappalli, Shri R. Murugaiya said that 
early on the morning of the 3rd February information was received about the death of Shri 
C. N. Annadurai followed by instructions to mobilise the Rmlway Police Force at the station. 



6 


In consequence, orders were issued to protect the trains, and to provide 2 constables on each 
important train instead of i. 

Crowds be ji'i corr'ng to Tiruchchirappalii by about 6-00 hours that day (3rd February), 
and all day there were crowds in all the trains. A; far as possible they, with the help of the Rail¬ 
way Protection Force, and Armed Reserve Police, manajed to ensure that roof travellers were 
detrained before the trains were started. Instructions were also issued to the Inspector, Railway 
Police, Thanjavur, to ensure that no roof travelling should be permitted. 

The crowds that day were very unruly, bat the situation was such as to preclude use of 
force to control them. 

14. Inspector Railway Protection Force, Tirnchchirappalli, Shri S. Renganathan 

said that on the 3rd February crowds began to collect at Tiruchchirappalii demanding accom¬ 
modation in trains to go to Madras. He went to the station along with about 15 men to deal 
with the crowds. The Divisional Superintendent arranged for a special train which left Tiru- 
chchirappalli at about 12-30 hours. He (the Divisional Superintendent) had given instructions to 
the Inspector, Railway Police and himself not to permit roof traveller.'! by any train, and accordingly 
they attended to incoming trains from Madurai side and from Rameswaram side and saw to 
it that all roof travellers were pulled down. 

No. 114 UP “Express” arrived at 21-30 hours with roof passengers, but the latter were 
removed before the train started from Tiruchchirappalii at about 23-45 hours. 

The crowds on all the trains were very unruly, and although they removed the roof travellers 
the latter ran after the trains when they started and climbed back on to the roofs of the carriages. 

He informed his Sub-Inspectors at Thanjavur and Mayuram to assist the railway staff 
to control the crowds of these trains along with the Railway Police. Specific instructions were 
also given not to permit trains to start with roof travellers. 

15. Driver of No. 102 UP “Rameswaram—Madras Express’*^ Shri V. Rama- 
swamysaid that he worked this train on the 4th February ex : Mayuram to V^illupuram. 

The train was stopped out of course at Coleroon at 8-35 hours because of roof travellers, 
and he warned them, with the help of the Guard and others, that there were bridges ahead, 
and that they .should get down from the roofs of carriages at least till the train passed through 
the bridges, after which they could do what they wanted. At first the crowd would not listen, 
but he took a few ahead and showed them the first bridge, after which the roof travellers got 
down and walked across the first New Coleroon Bridge. The train then was taken slowly across 
the bridge, after which the passengers got back on to the roofs of the carriages. The same pro¬ 
cedure was adopted when passing over the Old Coleroon Bridge and the 3rd bridge ahead i.c. 
h e roof travellers got down and walked across each bridge after which he passed slowly over the 
idges and the roof travellers got back on the roofs of the carriages. 

In addition to the travellers on the roofs of the coaches there were also about 20-30 persons 
on the tender of bis engine—he made it quite clear to the passengers that none should be at the 
front of the engine, on top of the engine cab, or inside the engine cab, if the firemen and he were 
to drive the engine. The men on the engine tender did not actually threaten him, and he managed 
to drive the train without any untoward incident. 

16. Guard of No. 114 UP “Express”, Shri N. Swamidurai said that he worked 
the train ex 4: Tiruchchirappalii. 

The train left Tiruchchirappalii at 23-50 hours on the 3rd February after all the roof 
travellers had been brought down. At Thanjavur also the train was started only after ensuring 
that there were no roof passengers, but the train arrived at Mayuram over-crowded, and with 
a large number of passengers travelling on the roofs of the carriages. With the help of the Station 
Staff and the Police these roof travellers were brought down, but immediately the train started 
from Mayuram the crowd got on to the roofs of the carriages again. At Sirkazhi station there was 
nobody to render assistance except the Station Staff, and since the crowd was considerable he 
started the train from this station even though there were roof passengers. 



7 


At Coleroon station the tiain was slopped because No. 102 UP “Express”, which was ahead, 
had nn‘ cleared the block section. The crowd then got down, abused the Station Master and 
himself, u. al went into the station building and meddled with the Block Instruments. They also 
threatened him with a khife. He warned the roof passengers that there were bridges ahead, but 
after the train started, they got back on to the roofs of the catriages even though he vvarned thetn 
that their lives would be in danger. 

After leaVirig Coleroon statioh the train was momentarily stopped at the New Colerodh 
Bridge and then re-started. He could not look outside because of the crowd that was in the brake 
van along with him, who threatened to kill him if the train was not taken through to Madras. 

The train then stopjfjed at 9-45 hours With his T.L.R. almost clear of the Old Coleroon 
bridge and the 2 coaches behind on the bridge. If (the train) had stopped as a result of somebody 
applying the vacuum brake. Hearing cties he, therefore, got down and saw a number of dead 
and injured. Most of the passengers then immediately ran away, and the dead and itijured were 
put in the train with the help of some scouts who were on the train. The train eventually reach¬ 
ed Chidambafam at ii-o'5 hours. 

Questioned as to why he had started the train at Sirkayhi station when there were still 
passengers on the roofs of carriages, this witness replied that he appealed to the roof travellers 
to get down, but that they did not heed him, and with the abnormal conditions prevailing at 
the time he was hfeltiless, and had to start th^ train, particularly as the crowd were threatening 
him. 


17. Brakesman of No. 114 UP Express ”, Shri Manimozhi said that right through 
from Tiruchchirappalli upto the time of the a.ccident the train was over-crowded and with passeii- 
gers on the roofs of the carriages, who generally got down when the train stopped and then got 
back when the train started from the stations. 

He had been travelling in the brake-van along with the Guard and 2 Travelling Ticket 
Examiners. .A.t Coleroon station other people, jumped into the Guard’s brake-van and he could 
not look out because he was wedged in by these people. 

The train passed through Vallampadugai station slowly, and then, wheh passing dver 
the Old Coleroon Bridge, the alarm chain ivas pulled and the train stopped. 

18. Travelling Ticket Examiner on No. 114 UP “Express” Shri S. Benngaraju 

confirmed that all the way from Tiruchchirappalli there had been roof travellers, and that al¬ 
though they were made to get down at edch Station, they climbed back on to the roofs of the 
carriages as the train left each Station. .At Coleroon station also roof travellers were brought 
down and warned about the bridges ahead, but although they got down, they got back on to 
the roofs of the carriages when the train started. 

After leaving Coleroon the train slowed down at the first big bridge over the New Coleroon 
river since there was a Watchman displaying a red flag. He heard the people on the roofs of the 
carriages abusing the Watchman for holding up the train, and although the Watchman warned 
them they paid no heed to him. As the train was passing through the second bridge over the Old 
Coleroon river he heard that some people had fallen off the train, and the train stopped 

19. Travelling Ticket Examiner on No. 114 UP ‘‘Egress” Shri K. S. Santhana- 
gopalan said that he boarded the train at Tiruchchirappalli. The train arrived at the station 
overcrowded, and with a number of people travelling on the top of the engine and on the roofs 
of the carriages. At Tiruchchirappalli, Thanjavur and other stations en-route, including Mayu- 
ram, Sirkazhi and Coleroon, the Station Staff made attempts to get the roof travellers down 
from the train, but although they were successful to some extent the passengers just got down 
and climbed back on to the roofs of the carriages from the other side as the train started from 
lhes6 stations. 

At Coleroftn the Station Staff also warned the roof travellers that there were bridges aheiad; 
but to no avail; as soon aS the train started the passengers climbed back on to the roofs Of the 
carriages. .After leaving Coleroon the train stopped, or slowed down—he did not recall which 
2—4 CRS Luck;./70 



8 


at the first big bridge over the New Golerooa river since there was a Watchman displaying a red 
flag. He heard the people on the roofs of the carriages abusing this Watchman for holding up 
the train, and although this Watchman warned them they paid no head. As the train was passing 
through the second bridge over the Old Goleroon river they heard that some people had fallen 
off the train, so the Guard applied the Vacuum brakes and the train stopped. 

He had been travelling with the Guard in the rear brake-van all along, and due to the 
over-crowding, and the number of roof travellers, it had not been possible for him to do any 
ticket checking from Tiruchchirappalli. 

20. Driver of No. 114 UP “Express” Shri M. Sankaralingam said that he took over 
charge of No. 114 UP at Mayuram on the morning of the 4th February. When the train reached 
Mayuram it was seen that there were a number of people on the roofs of the carriages, and these 
were made to get down by the Station Master with the help of the Police. After the train started, 
however, the passengers climbed back on to the roofs of the carriages, and a numiber of them 
got on to his engine. When he objected to people getting on to the engine and was about to apply 
the brakes, he was threatened with a knife at his back, and told that if the train did not reach 
Madras by 13-00 hours that day he would be killed and buried along with Shri C. N. Anna- 
durai. 

Again at Sirkazhi station, he was threatened when he stopped the train and got off the 
engine, and was forcibly put back on the engine. This was repeated when the train stopped at 
Goleroon Home Signal and at Golenoon station he was abused and threatened by the men on 
the engine and the rest of the crowd and threatened with a knife to start the train. The Station 
Staff, the Guard, the travelling Ticket Examiners and he warned the roof travellers about the 
bridges ahead, but to no avail. 

Leaving Goleroon at 9-27 hours the train was stopped by the Watchman at the New Golc- 
roon Bridge and the train passed slowly through the bridge with the crowd crouching down 
on the roofs of the carriages. After passing this bridge the crowd hit him and said that as there 
was ample clearance he should proceed at 60 miles an hour; they would not believe him when 
he told them that the bridge ahead had less clearance, and threatened him with the pricker and 
shovel, and forcibly opened the regulator. To prevent a disaster, therefore, he folded his hands 
and said he would not stop, and took charge of the regulator again, passing over the Old Goleroon 
Bridge slowly—he was forcibly restrained from stopping the train at Vallampadugai. Immedia¬ 
tely after passing the Old Goleroon Bridge there was a hue and cry, the vaccum dropped, and the 
Frain stopped. Immediately thereafter, the crowd got down and ran away in all directions. 

21. First Fireman of No. 114 UP “Express”, Shri M. Poongavanam said that all 
the way from Mayuram upto Goleroon there were roof travellers on the train, and also a number 
on the engine who assaulted the Driver and himself several times and threatened them with death 
if they did not hasten. 

At Goleroon station the Driver warned the mob about the bridges ahead, and even said 
that he would stop the train and that after passing the bridges they could get on to the train 
again, but they only abused him and forcibly put him on to the engine when he got down to take 
the token. 

Approaching New Goleroon Bridge they saw the Watchman dispalying a red flag, and the 
Driver attempted to stop the train but was again assaulted and forcibly restrained from applying 
the brakes. Passing Vallampadugai station they saw the Station Master displaying a red flag, 
but again the,crowd would not let the Driver stop and threatened his life. 

After passing the Old Goleroon Bridge the train was stopped due to the accident that 
occurred, and immediately thereafter the crowd got down from the engine and the roofs of the 
carriages and ran away. 

22. Second Fireman of No. 114 UP “Express”, Shri K. Pemmal said that all the 
way from Mayuram there had been a number of people travelling on the roofs of the carriages 
and on the engine and tender and all along the Driver had been threatened and assaulted by the 
crowd on the engine. He also confirmed that the train did not stop at Vallampadugai because 
the crowd threatened the Driver and forced him to proceed. 



9 


Immediately after the accident occurred all the people on the engine and on the roofs 
of the carriages ran away. 

23. A Passenger on 114 UP “Express”, Shri Kannan said that he had been travelling 
without a ticket on the engine, despite the fact that the Driver and others had told him to get 
ff. He and others on the engine had shouted to the Driver to go fast, and not to stop till the 
train reached Villuputam. The Driver, therefore, could not be blamed for this accident. 

24. A Passenger on No. 114 UP “Express”, Shri A. Packiam said that he had been 
travelling in the train from Madurai without a ticket. At first he had attempted to get on to 
the roof of the train but had been chased off by the Police. As the train left the station, however, 
he and 8 others (who were together in a group) got on to the train. He travelled in the train 
up to Malliyam where he got down with others to get some foodr—but no food was to be had. 
Returning to the train he, along with about 15 others got on top of the engine cab, there being 
about another 30 persons on the tender and another 5 or so inside the engine with the Driver, 

At Mayuram they demanded from the Station Master another Driver as their Driver 
was going slow. They also insisted that the train should run through to Villupuram without 
stopping, and that the train should reach Madras in time for them to pay their respects to Shri 
Annadurai. At this station also—Mayuram—the Reserve Police attempted to get them down 
from the engine and the roofs of the carriages, but they would not listen. 

Both at Mayuram and Goleroon, where the train stopped, the Station Staff tried to get 
them down from the roofs of the carriages, and also warned them about the bridges ahead, but 
they paid no heed to them. 

After leaving Goleroon the train passed over a long through girder bridge slowly, and 
since nothing happened, the Driver was urged to go fast over the next bridge where the accident 
actually occurred. 

The accident was solely due to their anxiety to reach Madras as quickly as possible, and 
no blame what so ever could be attributed to the Railway Administration or to any Railway 
Staff. 

The witness confirmed that the contents of the alleged interview given by him to the Press 
and reported in ‘Mrlai Murasu’ of 5-2-1969 (Tiruchchirappalli Edition) was generally 
correct, except that he had not told,the Reporter that :— 

(a) They had travelled on the roofs because there was no room in the train; 

(b) He went to the sugar cane fields; 

(c) He heard the man with the red flag at the first long bridge warn them about another - 
bridge ahead; 

(d) He saw dead bodies strewn on the roofs of other carriages, 

25. A Passenger on No. 114 UP “Express” Shri K. Doraiswamy said that he 
boarded the train at Mryuram that morning without a ticket as he was unable to purchase on 
account of the rush at the station. The train arrived at Mayuram with a number of people 
travelling on the roofs of all the coaches and on the engine. The Station Master tried to per¬ 
suade the people to get down from the roofs of the carriages, but although they came down, 
they got back immediately the train started. The Driver was also threatened with a dagger 
and forced to start the train. 

At Goleroon station he heard the Driver again asking the people to get down from the 
roofs of the carriages, warning them about the bridges ahead, but Aey did not heed him. 


[An English translation of the relevant extract from^is paper is reproduced as Anncxnrc-i ] 



10 


Approaching the first bridge, the Driver again warned the overhead passengers, who 
said that they would stoop down, and threatened the Driver to make him speed up the train. 
The train was going slowly through the second bridge when one person was knocked down by 
the overhead bracing, and others lifting themselves to see what had happened, were in turn 
struck by the overhead bracing and knocked down. 

26. Railway Police Head Constable, Kumbakonam, Shri N. Suryamurtby said 
that when No. 114 UP “Express” arrived at Kumbakonam there were a number of passengers 
travelling on the roofs of the carriages and on the engine. The Station Staff, the Railway Pro¬ 
tection Force and he tried to get the people down, but they paid no heed, and insisted that the 
train should start, and threatened all of them with dire consequences if it did not. As far as 
he was aware there was no constable on the train. 

27. Relieving Assistant Station Master Mayuram Shri K. S. Velayntham said 
that No. 114 UP “Express” arrived at Mayuram at 7-53 hours on the 4th February with 
about 500 passengers on the roofs of the carriages and on the engine and tender. On arrival 
the crowd looted the refreshment stalls. He tried to get the roof travellers down with the help 
of the Railway Police and about 10 Special Armed Police who came to the station, but they all 
failed. 

The crowd threatened to kill him if he did not start the train immediately, and to save 
his own life and railway property, he had been forced to start the train at 8—20 hours even 
though there were passengers still on the roofs of the carriages. 

q8 . Assistant Station Master, Mayuram, Shri K. S. Jambulingam generally con¬ 
firmed what the Relieving Station Master Shri K. S. Velayudam stated. He also said that 
he saw the Driver being rudely manhandled by the crowd, who pushed him from the platform 
pn to his engine. In such circumstances the crpwd could not be cpnttolled and the train had 
to be started. 

29. Sub-Inspector of Police, Mayuram, Shri V. Soina said that at about 7— 15 
hours on the 4th February he was requested over the telephone by the Railway Police to help 
in dealing with the crowd on No. 114 UP “Express”. He accordingly went to the station with 
2 sections of Armed Reserve Police (18 men) and brought down the roof travellers from the 
train, but immediately the train started, the crowd ran up to the train and got back on to the 
roofs of the carriages. 

This •^i/as the only train on the 4th February for which his assistance had been sought 
by the Railway Police, and the crowd on the train appeared to consist largely of “Goondas”, 
and those without any ostensible means of livelihood. 

30. Senior Rakshak, Mayuram, Shri A. Susairaj said that at about 4—00 hours 
on the 4th February he was instructed by the Assistant Sub-Inspector, Railway Protection Force 
to take charge on the platform at Mayuram, and to co-operate with the Railway Staff in con¬ 
trolling the crowds. 

No. 114 UP “Express” arrived over-crowded with passengers on the roofs of the coaches 
and on the engine. With the help of about 10 Reserve Police with lathis, and about 10 Railway 
Police attempts were made to get the crowd down. They did get down at first, but only to go 
to the' refreshment stall which they looted, and, as the train was slowly leaving the station, 
the crowd got back on to the roofs of the carriages. 

With the small Police Force totalling about 20 it was quite impossible to have controlled 
the crowd and stopped the train from proceeding as otherwise a very scrlons situation would 
have arisen. 

31. Constable, Railway Police, Mayuram, Shri R. Govindagwaray said 
that on the 3rd February instructions were received to mobilise Railway Police Staff for dealing 
with crowds expected to be travelling towards Madras. Because of this mobilisation no constables 
were bookqd to travel on trains since their services wees otherswiss required^ 



On the morning of the 4th February No. 114 UP “Express” arrived in an over crowded 
condition, with a large number of passengers on the roofs of carriages and on the engine. He 
accordingly telephoned the Local Police and two sections of the Armed Reserve Police (about 
15 constables with lathis) arrived under 2 Sub-Inspectors. Tliey asked the roof travellers to 
get down and warned them of the bridges ahead, but although they initially got down no sooner 
did the train start from the station than they all rushed back and climbed once again on to the 
roofs of the carriages. 

In his opinion, if the train had been stopped and permission not given for it to start because 
of the roof travellers, a serious situation might have arisen. 

32. Assistant Station Master, Coleroon, Shri K. Shanmugam said that No. 102 
UP “Express” arrived at Coleroon station at &—30 hours on the 4th February. There were 
roof travellers on the train, and he managed to persuade most of them to get down, but some did 
not obey. The train left Coleroon at 8—45 hours. 

No. 114 UP “Express” arrived at the station at p—14 hours, also with a number of roof 
travellers. He requested the roof travellers to get down, but many of them did so only to man¬ 
handle him and the Guard and the Pointsmen, the latters’ red flags being torn to shreds. The 
crowd also attempted to interfere with the Block Instrument and insisted that the train should 
proceed even though the section ahead had not yet been cleared by No. 102 UP “Express”. 
When the token was eventually obtained after No. 102 UP “Express” had cleared the section, 
he handed over the same to the Driver, who was bodily taken by the crowd and forced on to the 
engine. He also heard some of the passengers on the engine threatening the Driver, saying 
that they would throw him into the fire box if he did not run at 60 m.p.h. He warned the people 
that there were 3 bridges ahead which would endanger the roof travellers, but although some 
of them got down, others remained on the roof. The train started slowly at g—25 hours, and 
many then got back on to the roofs of the carriages after the train started. 

After the train left he informed Vallarapadugai to exhibit a danger signal on account 
of the roof travellers. 

Questioned as to whether he was aware that there are definite orders that when low over¬ 
head structures like bridges had to be passed by a train the train should not be started from the 
s^tion if passengers were on the roofs of carriages, this witness admitted that he was aware of such 
orders. On the day in question, however, when No. 114 UP “Express” stopped at his station 
the Guard, the Driver and he were all threatened and manhandled by the crowd, and with the 
situation obtaining at the time he was unable to do anything. 

33. Pointsman at Coleroon, Shri V. Manickam confirmed that there were a large 
number of roof travellers on No. 114'—UP “Express” on the 4th February, and that a number 
were also on the engine. The crowd were very unruly, and tore the red flag that he was 
displaying because the section ahead had not been cleared by No. 102 UP “Express”. The 
crowd also looted the shops, and manhandled the Station Master, the Guard and the Driver, 
the last mentioned being threatened with dire consequences if he did not start the train imme¬ 
diately. 

34. Pointsman at Coleroon, Shri R. Kothandapani confirmed that the Guard and the 
Station Master had been manhandled by the crowd, who had torn his red flag and shirt as well. 

35. 5 other persons, including Shri G. Ethlraja Mudaliar, ex-President, Coleroon 
Panchayat Board also gave statements generally to the effect that No. 114 UP “Express” had 
a number of roof travellers, and that although they were requested and urged to get down they 
paid no heed to the warning regarding the bridges ahead, but rather manhandled and threatened 
the Station Staff and the Train Grew, insisting that the train start at once. 

36. Watchman at New Coleroon Bridge, Shri A. Sambandam said that No. 114 
UP “Express” was stopped by him by display of a red flag on the 4th February because 
of roof travellers. A number of passengers on the engine, however, got down and snatched 
away the red flag and were angry with him for having stopped the train, which then crossed 
the bridge slowly after the roof travellers crouched down at the request of the Guard and the 
Driver. 



12 


37* Glerk-in-Gharge Vallampadngai station, Shri T. S. Kuppuswamy said 
that on the 4th February he had been informed by Goleroon station that No. 114 UP “Express” 
had roof passengers, and that the train should be stopped. He, accordingly, displayed a red 
flag to the over-crowded train with roof travellers as it passed through his station slowly, but 
some of the passengers abused him, and threw stones at him and shouted for him to display a 
green flag. 

38. Shri C. Sivanandam, who was at Vallampadugai station that morning, confirmed 
that the Station Master displayed a red flag to No. 114 UP “Express”, but that the train, which 
had a number of people on the engine and on the roofs of the carriages, did not stop. 

V. OBSERVATIONS 

39. Overhead Clearance at Bridges Nos. 687 (over the New Goleroon river) 
and 685 (over the Old Goleroon river where the accident occurred). —On the morning 
of the 7th February I carefully checked the minimum overhead clearance above rail level at 
the above 2 bridges. The results were as follows ;— 

(a) Bridge No. 687 (14x150 feet girders). —The minimum clearance was at the 
end portals of the girders which were 16 —0 above rail level. 

(b) Bridge No. 685 (a x 100 feet girders) —-The clearance of the overhead bracings 
varied from 12' —6* to 12'-—6f' above rail level. 

VI. DISCUSSION 

40. Time of the accident. —The Guard and the Driver of No. 114 UP “Express” said 
that the accident occurred at 9—45 hours. According to the Guard and the Driver the train 
left Goleroon station at 9—27 hours—though the Assistant Station Master, Goleroon gives 
the time as 9—25 hours. The Guard also said that the train passed through Vallampadugai 
station at 9—39 hours, the Glerk-in-Charge at this station giving the time as about 9—40 hours. 
The distance from Vallampadugai station to the bridge where the accident occurred is about 
a kilometre, and the evidence is to the effect that the train was proceeding slowly at the time. 

Accordingly it is accepted that the accident must have occurred at about 9—45 hours. 

41. Speed of the train, —There is no clear evidence as to the speed of the train when 
the accident occurred, and as the speed recorder was not functioning at the time the speed 
could not be established later. However, the evidence is to the effect that the train was proceed¬ 
ing slowly at the time, and in the circumstances prevailing it is apparent that this was indeed 
the case. 

42. Overhead clearance at Bridge No. 685. —Para 10, Ghapter I—General—of the 
Schedule of Dimensions, Metre Guage, reads as follows :— 

“10. Minimum height above rail level at centre of track for overhead structures 3810 

mm. 

(12 ft. 6 in.)” 

From para 39 above it will be seen that the minimum height of the overhead bracing of 
this bridge was 12'r—^6', so there was no infringement of the Standard Dimensions. 

43. Responsibility of the Railway Administration. —There have been 2 serious 
accidents of a similar nature in the past on the North-Eastern Railway, and the Railway Board 
issued orders in 1963 in the matter. A copy of the Board’s Gircular No. 62-TT/V/1/13 dated 
16-2-1963 addressed to all General Managers is attached as Annexure-II, from which it will be 
seen that the Board had decided that whenever such roof travelling occurred and a fixed structure 
had to be passed, the train was not to be started from the station in re ar of the fixed structure 
if efforts to persuade or force the roof passengers to come down failed. 

It is evident from the statements of the Divisional, Superintendent and the Inspectors 
of Railway Police and Railway Protection Force, Tiruchchirappalli that the Railway Ad¬ 
ministration took whatever action was possible to implement these orders of the Board and 



13 


ensure that roof travellers were brought down. The circumstarrees were such as to preclude 
advance arrangements being made to deal with this sudden rush of traffic to M idras occasioned 
by the demise of Shri G. N. Annadurai, Chief Minister of Tamil Nada, early on the morning 
of the 3rd February. The Railway Administration, however, did take whatever steps were 
possible to clear the traffic by arranging a special train with 11 bogie coaches from Tiruchchi- 
rapalli at 12—30 hours on the 3rd February, and strengthening other trains to Madras with 
as many as 25 additional coaches. It is also clear that stations were advised to implement the 
Board’s Circular, and not to permit roof travelling. Unfortunately, however, the crowds were 
very unruly, and considerable force would have been necessary to control the same which was 
not possible in view of the occasiort—the sad demise of Shri G. N. Annadurai. 

I am, therefore, satisfied that the Railway Administration took whatever steps were 
possible in the matter to cope with the sudden situation that arose, and further that they took 
all possible steps to prevent roof travelling. 

44. Responsibility of the Station Stafif and the Train Crew.^ —Here again the 
evidence is clear that the Railway Staff and Train Grew did their utmost to remove roof 
travellers from the train, obtaining the help of the Railway Police and the Railway Protection 
Force in the matter wherever these were available. The unruly crowd, however, were not in 
a mood to be reasoned with, and as fast as the roof travellers were brought down from the train 
at stations, they climbed back again on to the roofs of the carriages immediately the train started. 
The Railway Staff at wayside stations and the Train Crew were also manhandled whenever 
the train stopped, and the Driver of the train was intimidated with a knife to his back, and, as 
a last resort, was forced to drive the train lest the crowd took charge of the train themselves— 
as they apparently did at one stage by seizing the regulator on the engine. 

I am, therefore, satisfied that the Railway Staff and the Train Crew cannot, in the 
circumstances, be blamed in any way for this tragic accident. 

45. Responsibility for the accident. —It will be seen from the foregoing paragraphs 
that the Railway Administration and the Railway Staff took all possible steps to prevent the 
roof travelling, but the mood of the crowd was such that they were helpless in the matter. It 
is clear, therefore, that the unfortunate roof travellers themselves wei e solely responsible for this 
accident, and this has abo been more or less admitted by the 3 whose statements have been 
summarised in paras 23, 24 and 25 above. 

VH. CONCLUSIONS 

46. From the evidence available I have no hesitation in concluding that the accident 
was brought about as a result of the roof travellers themselves insisting on travelling on the roofs 
of the carriages and on the engine of the train, and that they themselves are solely responsible. 

In the circumstances prevailing, I have also to conclude that the Railway Administra¬ 
tion and the Railway Staff are not to be blamed for this accident. 

47. The relief arrangements were satisfactory. Several have drawn attention to the help 
rendered by the Scouts on the train in picking up the injured and dead at the site of the accident. 
No doubt the Railway Administration will convey its appreciation to them, and also to the 
Civil Doctors at Cuddalorc and Chidambaram who responded so promptly to the call for 
assistance. 

Yours faithfully, 

(Sd.) H. S. HART 

Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety. 

Bangalore, 4-3-1969. 



Recommendations]Imidentat Observations and recommendations made by the Commission o^ Railways 
Safetv in connection with accident that occurred on the ^th February, 1969, /o unauthorised travellers 
on the engine and roofs of coaches o/jVo. 114 Up Madurai-Madras Janta Express between 
Vallamp^ugai and Chidambaram stations of Southern Railway 

1. No stretchers were available with the Guard of No. 114 Up Express for picking 
up the injured and the dead at the site of the accident. It is understood that this is a 
result of ordeis from the Railway Board. It is not known as to why the Board have issued 
ordeis withdrawing stretchers from passenger trams, but in any case it is lecommended 
that this item should form part of the equipment with every Guard of apassengei train. 

2. The major girder bridges on this section aie provided with 2 fixed ends on some 
pieis and 2 free ends on others. It is possible that this arrangement will result in the piers 
with 2 fixed ends being subjected to inci eased longitudinal forces particularly by Diesel 
and Electric locomotives. The mattei may be investigated by the R.D.S.O. as this piactice 
apparently obtains at other bridges as well on the old South Indian Railway system. 

Railway Board have remarked as under on the above noted Recommendations etc. 

1. The matter in regard to provision of stietchers in the brake van of the passenger 
trams have beeen examined by theBoaidand it has not been found feasible to provide stretchers 
in brakevans. 

2. The mattei has been examined. Ihe position is that theoretical investigations carried 
out by the railway on the strength of substructures of the biidges having cither a fixed or all fice 
bearings on each piei, have shown that the stresses induced in the pieis under ML standard of, 
loading (taking intc account the longitudinal foices transmitted at the fixed end beaiinigs) arc 
within permissible limits. In the case ol biidges with even number of spans, the existing arrange¬ 
ment has the added advantage of free bearings on both abutments, whereby the stiesses in 
the abutments aie also kept within safe limits. In the few biidges with odd numbei of spans, 
one of the abutments is with fixed beaiings, and even in these cases the over stresses are found 
within leasonable limits, except in the case of bridge No. 579 (15 X i32'-o’) on Aikonam- 
Raichur section. The theoietical stability of such abutments could be impioved by inter¬ 
changing the free and fixed beaiings of the abutting span; but in the case of bridge No. 
579 this is not practicable on account of differences in the pedestals of the free and fixed 
bearings. However, it has been verified by detailed inspection that the abutments in question 
are in good conditicn, and as such, no alteration in the anangement of bearings' is consi¬ 
dered necessary for the present. 

In a few other bridges also, there are differences in height between free and fixed 
end bearings, which makes it difficult to interchange them without replacing pedestals. 

From what has been stated in the foregoing,^ it will seen that for the bridges in question 
the existing an angement of bearings can safely be allowed to continue. 


14 



ANNEXURE I 


Translation of an Extract from “Malai Mwasu” a Tamil Daily front Tirucki-TTianjai dated 5-2-1969 
Shri Packiyam injured in this accident stated :— 

I am from I^nayur near Madurai. My father’s name is Shri Andi Ambaiam. I am working as a Milk 
Vendor in the Madurai Milk Supply Scheme. 

special attachment on Anna. 

I have a special attachment on Anna. On hearing the news of his death I felt very sorry. 

I had an uncontrollable desire to see his dead body as a last chance. 

I decided to go to Madras, 

Brother-in-law. 

My Brother-in-law Pondy also desired to come. Both of us left for Madras on 3rd by day by Janata Express 
which left Madurai at 2—-40 hours. 

As there was no room inside the train We sat on the roof and travelled. We had a total sum of Rs. 10 only 
for expenses. Therefore we did not purchase tickets. 

Apart from us several others climbed on the roof and travelled. 

The railway officials told us not to travel on roofs and warned that there will be danger. 

But we did not pay heed to what they said as we were anxious to see Anna’s face as a last time. 

They warned us at several places like this. But we did not mind it. 

Hunger-Hunger. 

Wc did not get anything to eat. Therefore at the halting places of the train we broke sugaicanes from the 
sugarcane gardens and appeased our hunger. 

The train left Mayavaram and reached Coleroon. The officials insisted us very much to get down. 

They said—Dangerous bridges have to be passed through—get down. 

We refused. 

First an iron girder bridge (new Coleroon) came. We were sitting as usual. 

There was no danger as there was a gap of half foot between us and the top bracings. 

Moreover, on arrival at the bridge a railway servant showing a red flag told to go slow. Accordingly the 
train passed slowly. 

He warned us that after passing that bridge another bridge comes next, 

Black smoke. 

After this, lot of black smoke was coming out 
Some had climbed on the engine also. What 

•A 

“The next bridge is coming very close. Bi other-in-law” I said to niy brother-in-law. 

Afterwards I laid down close to the roof of the coach. I did not get up till the train passed the bridge. 

After passing the bridge I saw my Brother-in-law Pandiyan who was seated by my side and was not seen. 

I saw several persons lying half dead on the roof of the coach. 

Moving slowly I went to.. .and fell down unconscious. After reaching the station by sprink¬ 

ling water on my face made to regain consciousness. 

I saw my Brother-in-law with injuries on the shoulder blade. The pain was unbearable- Wc Were ad^ 
vmitted into the hospital. 

So he said. 


f thc train. 

4 omin 4 in-fmnt was not known. 


15 




ANNEXL’RE II 


Government of India, Ministry of Railways 
(Railway Board) 


No. 6a-rT/V/i/i3 Ntui Delhi, DaUd 16-2-6^. 

The General Manager, 

All Indian Government Railways. 

Sub. —Unauthorised travel—Travelling on roofs—Prevention thereof. 

Recently, an unfortunate case occurred where the passengers, not finding room in the compartments due 
to rush of mela traffic, had managed to climb on the roof-tops of the coaches and despite repeated efforts by the 
Railway staff to de-roof them somehow managed to remain there. Eventually, they weie hit by the upper bracings 
of a bridge cnroute, resulting in some being injured fatally and others grievously. 

2. This is a matter over which the public and the Parliament have expressed great concern and the Board 
consider that some effective measures are necessary to prevent this type of occurrence. 

3. Accordingly, the Board have decided that whenever such travelling on roofs occurs during melas etc. and 
a fixed structure has to be passed by the train on the roof of which such passengers are perched, the Railway authori¬ 
ties should not start the train from the station in rear of the fi.xed structure if efforts to persuade 01 force the roof 
passengers to come down fail. Only after all passengers on the roof have come down, must the train start. 

4. The Board also desire that a special para to this effect should be incorporated whenever instructions in 
regard to arrangements for mela traffic and other congregations are issued from the Divisional/District Offices. 

Please acknowledge receipt. 


(Sd.) K. D. MADAN 

Dy. Director, Trctffic Trans. (A & R), Railway Board 

D.A.—Nil 

Copy to :— 

(i) The Commissioner of Railway Safety, Simla-3 

(ii) The .\dditional Commissioner of Railway Safety, Calcutta/Lucknow/Bangaloie/Bombay. 

^ Copy 


GlPSWS CJiJi.LcciaKsw/7fK-i8-8.71^~600. 


16 




