FIRST NATIONAL CITY CORPORATION / ANNUAL REPORT 1969/ FIRST NATIONAL CITY BANK — 


SENIOR MANAGEMENT 


FIRST NATIONAL CITY CORPORATION 


George S. Moore 
Chairman 


Walter B. Wriston 
President 


Richard S. Perkins 
Chairman of the Executive 
Committee 


J. Howard Laeri 
Vice Chairman 


Thomas R. Wilcox 
Vice Chairman 


FIRST NATIONAL CITY BANK 


George S. Moore 
Chairman 


Walter B. Wriston 
President 


Richard S. Perkins 
Chmn. of the Exec. Comm. 


J. Howard Laeri 
Vice Chairman 


Thomas R. Wilcox 
Vice Chairman 


G. A. Costanzo 
Exec. Vice President 


Thomas F. Creamer 
Exec. Vice President 


James D. Farley 
Exec. Vice President 


Edward L. Palmer 
Exec. Vice President 


William |. Spencer 
Exec. Vice President 


George C. Scott 


Chmn. Credit Policy Comm. 


Bernard T. Stott 
Comptroller 


Carl W. Desch 
Senior Vice President and 
Cashier 


Leif H. Olsen 
Senior Vice President and 
Economist 


Robert W. Feagles 
Senior Vice President 


John J. Larkin 
Senior Vice President 


Thomas C. Theobald 
Senior Vice President 


Conrad F. Ahrens 
Senior Vice President 


Robert D. Arnold 
Senior Vice President 


George J. Clark, Jr. 
Senior Vice President 


Paul J. Collins 
Senior Vice President 


E. Newton Cutler, Jr. 
Senior Vice President 


Roy H. Dickerson 
Senior Vice President 


George P. Egbert 
Senior Vice President 


John Exter 
Senior Vice President 


Stephen C. Eyre 
Senior Vice President 


Lester Garvin 
Senior Vice President 


Robert P. Graham 
Senior Vice President 


John W. Heilshorn 
Senior Vice President 


William G. Herbster 
Senior Vice President 


Henry M. Hubshman, Jr. 
Senior Vice President 


James F. Jaffray 
Senior Vice President 


Raymond A. Kathe 
Senior Vice President 


Julien-Pierre Koszul 
Senior Vice President 


Homer C. Lathrop 
Senior Vice President 


George M. Lingua 
Senior Vice President 


James F. Jaffray 
Senior Vice President 


Carl W. Desch 
Secretary and 
Treasurer 


Bernard T. Stott 
Comptroller 


William A. Lockwood 
Senior Vice President 


William M. R. Mapel 
Senior Vice President 


P. Henry Mueller 
Senior Vice President 


Henry J. Muller 
Senior Vice President 


Parker E. Nielsen 
Senior Vice President 


Victor O. Prall 
Senior Vice President 


George E. Putnam, dr. 
Senior Vice President 


Eben W. Pyne 
Senior Vice President 


John S. Reed 
Senior Vice President 


Edwin A. Reichers 
Senior Vice President 


John J. Reynolds 
Senior Vice President 


Reuben F. Richards 
Senior Vice President 


Juan D. Sanchez 
Senior Vice President 


John C. Slagle 
Senior Vice President 


Carleton M. Stewart 
Senior Vice President 


Richard S. Vokey 
Senior Vice President 


Richard W. Wheeler 
Senior Vice President 


Donald S. Howard 
Deputy Comptroller 


John C. Macy 
Deputy Comptroller 


Cover. Early in 1969, Citibank — 
underwent a bold reorganization 
designed to place the special- 

ized skills of its people next to 

the markets they serve. The SUC- — 
cess of the new organization Is — 
discussed in the section begin- @ 
ning on page 8 of this report. — 
The cover montage represents 
the varied activities of the major — 
Groups that make up the heart — 
of Citibank’s new organization. — 


ANNUAL REPORT 1969 
FIRST NATIONAL CITY CORPORATION 
FIRST NATIONAL CITY BANK 


Letter to Stockholders. The year was a profitable one for First 
National City, despite severe monetary pressures, persistent in- 
flation and the threat of restrictive legislation. The success of 
Citibank’s new organizational structure holds promise for con- 
iMnWiete! GyoNila Hay VEO ooo seera@eoo Coauoooopomucdos Page 2 


Economic Environment. The growth rate of the U.S. economy 
slowed during most of 1969 as economic restraints took effect. 
Overseas, industrial countries experienced a boom period, with 
higher prices, wages and interest rates. Inflation should ease in 
Wave) US) Elixel OMETSEES IM IGHO. bbs cpeonssoccueeoudas Page 5 


Human Environment. In 1969, Citicorp reassessed its role in 
urban affairs. The result was a far-reaching program aimed at 
upgrading the City's human resources, promoting economic 
development, helping to create better housing and improving 
CIVISEIVICCS aaa eee eather tone atuey subcircact Anis eyekeoniceyl:« Page 6 


Serving Many Markets. A new era has begun for Citibank. The 
Bank’s traditional geographic alignment has been reorganized 
into a market-oriented structure. The success of the reorganiza- 
tion was amply demonstrated in 1969 by Citibank’s service to its 
IMMEVANIMNKEVAMENIS, Blalocace-b25 6 6 6 cacion, SrowRONUCNEUE ¢ Canta CR Ones Page 8 


Operating Group. Citibank’s restructuring has been particularly 
significant in rationalizing the flow of information and unifying 
bits and pieces into entire systems. As the Bank’s paper- 
processing ‘‘back office,’ the Operating Group has major re- 
SOOM SMIG, KO, UNEASE SS oo200b0ceunopugceou ees Page 16 


People. Profile of a small city: Citibank personnel. How many 
people work for Citibank? Where do they work? Some answers 
are given in a report that also touches on the steps Citibank is 
taking to increase its sources of trained manpower and improve 
GQPOOMMIMUAS WOK ECWEIMOZINIEIN 2 anckosnoooca0s0000c Page 17 


Financial Summary. Income before Securities Profits or Losses 
of First National City Corporation was $130,580,000, 8.4 percent 
higher than 1968. Per share earnings for 1969 were $4.83, an in- 
crease from $4.50 for the previous year. Total assets reached 
AE CONChOCOMMOL LOM mete merece ecnan eet ees c hc. eee ee Page 24 


Policy Committee, Directors and Trust Board. For the first time 
in history, the Board of Directors and Trust Board met on foreign 
soil. They convened in London, England, during May for a joint 
meeting at which senior officers based in Europe reported on 
Cian StOPSrallOnSmnGrer. wos. cis cc bees we we se Oe Page 34 


LETTER TO STOCKHOLDERS 


This is a combined report of the opera- 
tions of First National City Bank and its 
parent, First National City Corporation. 

The economic and political environ- 
ment in the nation in 1969 importantly 
affected the activities of First National 
City. On the economic front, the year was 
marked by an unusually restrictive mone- 
tary policy and persistent inflation. These 
forces pushed interest rates to histori- 
cally high levels. Money market pres- 
sures were more severe than during the 
“crunch” of 1966. 

The monetary fight against inflation has 
been painful. But it has been necessary 
if we are to eliminate excessive price in- 
flation and achieve lower interest rates. 

Monetary restraint began in December 
1968 and was intensified in the second 
half of 1969. Throughout the year the 
Federal Reserve left unchanged the limits 
on interest banks may pay on time and 


HIGHLIGHTS OF 1969 


savings deposits. As other interest rates 
rose, depositors moved their funds into 
higher yielding investments in the market. 
This loss of large denomination time de- 
posits placed severe pressures on large 
commercial banks in the money centers. 
To avoid unmanageable strains, banks 
bought high-cost Eurodollars and Fed- 
eral Funds. This cushioned, but did not 
offset, monetary restraint. Banks were 
forced to sell securities and ration avail- 
able funds to business borrowers. Com- 
mercial bank loans rose during 1969, but 
this was virtually offset by a sharp decline 
in bank holdings of securities. In contrast, 
total loans and investments at commer- 
cial banks had climbed about 11 percent 
in both 1967 and 1968. 

During the year liquidity diminished and 
the cost of money to the banks increased. 
Consequently, banks raised their rates on 
business loans. Although bank rates did 


EARNINGS AND DIVIDENDS 1969 1968 Change 
Income before Securities Profits 
or Losses (thousands) $130,580 $120,475 + 8% 
Per Share $ 4.83 $ 4.50 
Net Income (thousands) $119,414 $109,254 + 9% 
Per Share $ 4.41 $ 4.08 
Cash Dividends Declared (thousands) $ 62,292 $ 56,320 + 11% 
Per Share S230 S230 
Annual Dividend Rate at Year End $ 2.40 So 22O + 9% 
STATEMENT OF CONDITION (millions) 
Total Assets $ 23,092 $ 19,624 + 18% 
Deposits $ 19,142 $ 16,643 + 15% 
Loans $ 13,240 $ 11,430 + 16% 
Capital Accounts Secs $ 1,396 + 3% 
OFFICES OF FNCB AND 
AFFILIATED COMPANIES 
In New York Area 181 172 ae) 
Overseas 633* 273 +360 
Total 814 445 +369 


t Total loans rose 16%; domestic loans increased 10%. 


* Includes National and Grindlays Bank Limited, Iranians’ Bank, Far East Bank Limited, National City Financial 


Trust Ltd. and New York London Trustee Co. Ltd. 


not rise aS much as most market rates, 
banks nevertheless were widely criti- 
cized. During the second half of the year, 
the prime rate to corporate borrowers re- 
mained unchanged despite sharp in- 
creases in other interest rates. 

At Citibank, loans increased 16 per- 
cent and deposits 15 percent during 
1969; the corresponding increases dur- 
ing 1968 were 13 percent and 9 percent. 
Income before securities profits or losses 
was $130,580,000, up 8.4 percent from 
$120,475,000 in 1968. On a per share 
basis, this amounted to $4.83 for 1969 
compared with $4.50 for 1968. After de- 
ducting net losses from sales of securi- 
ties (after taxes) of $11,166,000 in 1969 
and $11,221,000 in 1968, net income was 
$119,414,000 and $109,254,000 respec- 
tively. For 1969 this equaled $4.41 per 
share compared with $4.08 for 1968. The 
above earnings figures for both years 
reflect changes in accounting procedures 
applicable to commercial banks in 1969, 
under which a provision for possible 
losses on loans is included in operating 
expenses. 

Under the previous accounting proce- 
dures, the earnings for 1969 would have 
been $136,347,000 or $5.04 per share; 
the earnings previously reported for 
1968 under the old procedures were 
$124,789,000 or $4.66 per share. The 
year’s results and the changes in ac- 
counting procedures are discussed more 
fully in the Financial Summary. 

In September, the annual dividend rate 
was raised from $2.20 to $2.40 per share. 
It was the fifth successive year in which 
the rate had been increased. At year 
end, the number of stockholders was 
66,445, compared with 67,507 on De- 
cember 31, 1968. 

The move to a more restrictive mone- 
tary policy by the Federal:Reserve au- 
thorities late in 1968 affected the Bank’s 
lending activities throughout 1969. Every 
effort has been made to cooperate with 
the Federal Reserve authorities in their 
program to control the level of bank 
credit in this country. However, the ne- 
cessity to honor prior commitments and 
to respond to the needs of customers 
who have had long-established relation- 
ships with us has resulted in some further 


— 


increase in the loan portfolio. This in- 
crease was more pronounced in the first 
half than in the second half of the year 
due to the natural lag in the effectiveness 
of any change in credit policy. As com- 
mitments made prior to the period of re- 
straint expired, we were able to achieve 
more success in leveling out our loan 
totals and restricting our outstandings in 
accordance with Federal monetary ob- 
jectives. 

The primary impact of our restraint fell 
on business loans. We continued to make 
a full range of financial services available 
to individuals at competitive rates. Our 
personal finance, charge card, mortgage 
financing and student loan services indi- 
cate that a great many residents of the 
area we serve look to Citibank for finan- 
cial assistance whenever it may be 
needed. 

Of all the issues confronting Citicorp, 
the most threatening is the one-bank 
holding company legislation passed by 
the House of Representatives in Novem- 
ber, 1969. 

As a result of amendments virtually 
written on the floor of the House and ap- 
proved by the small minority present, the 
bill as it now stands not only severely 
restricts the operations of Citicorp, but 
affects all banks, large and small. Under 
its provisions, banks—not just one-bank 
holding companies—would be barred 
from such activities as leasing, data pro- 
cessing, mutual funds, insurance and 
travel services. Many of the services that 
the bill would prohibit are being provided 
effectively by commercial banks. 

What we find exceptionally disturbing 
in the House-passed bill (HR 6778) is the 
complete disregard for the public’s in- 
terest in the growth of the economy and 
the benefits of competition. Many of our 
competitors, who were the most vocif- 
erous advocates of this legislation, stand 
to gain the most from the restriction on 
bank activities in the present bill. 

The improvements and economies 
that normally flow from innovation and 
technological competition in financial 
services would be less available to con- 
sumers. Equally important, the dem- 
onstrated ability of the banks to antici- 
pate consumer needs and to meet the 


growing capital requirements of an ex- 
panding economy would be severely 
hobbled. Banking regulatory authorities 
have testified that existing legislation 
gives them adequate powers to supervise 
the banks. 

The Senate Banking and Currency 
Committee is due to consider the subject 
in the near future. The outcome there, 
and in the subsequent Senate-House 
conference, may very well depend on 
the extent to which you, the consumer, 
make clear to your representatives in 
Congress your opposition to legislation 
that would restrict your ability to obtain 
competitively priced financial services 
by taking banks out of markets they have 
been serving successfully for years. The 
consumer will ultimately be the loser if 
the House bill is allowed to stand. 

The uncertain outcome of the legisla- 
tive process as to the scope of activities 
to be permitted to bank holding com- 
panies limited the operations of First Na- 
tional City Corporation. Our first move to 
diversify our financial service package, 
the proposed acquisition of The Chubb 
Corporation, was terminated in midyear 
because of the Justice Department’s an- 
nounced intention to block the merger. 
Management concluded that long and 
disruptive litigation would not be in the 
best interests of stockholders, employees 
and customers. Nevertheless, during 


President Wriston, Chairman Moore, and Executive Committee Chairman Perkins. 


Citicorp’s first full year of operation, we 
did establish a number of new holding 
company subsidiaries. Citicorp Leasing 
International Inc. was organized to fi- 
nance in foreign countries the leasing of 
capital goods outside the United States. 
Citicorp Systems Inc. was formed to 
serve as the focal point for the develop- 
ment of our computer-based financial 
services. Citicorp Realty Consultants, Inc. 
provides real estate consulting services 
to correspondent banks, bank customers 
and others. During the past year we also 
transferred to holding company subsidi- 
aries certain activities formerly conducted 
by the Bank; FNCB Services Corporation, 
which conducts the travel business and 
markets our travelers checks and credit 
card, has become a subsidiary of First 
National City Corporation. 

Sensitive to its environment, the Bank 
increased substantially its involvement 
in urban affairs during the course of the 
year. It strengthened its program to im- 
prove housing in lower-income areas 
such as Bedford-Stuyvesant as well as 
in middle-income areas. It also supported 
business entrepreneurship in ‘‘under- 
developed”’ sections of New York City, 
while increasing its support to programs 
of the New York Urban Coalition directed 
toward similar ends. Mindful of its own 
personnel needs for the years ahead, 
Citibank increased its commitment to ed- 


ucate, train and hire the disadvantaged, 
and also conducted an in-depth study of 
the City’s public school system which 
received wide critical acclaim. 

The Bank completed a broad internal 
reorganization designed to serve our 
customers more expertly, more efficiently 
and more profitably. This is described in 
greater detail in this report. 

Overseas, the Bank further enlarged 
its branch operations. On April 1, Citi- 
bank acquired a 40 percent interest in 
National and Grindlays Bank Limited, a 
major overseas bank with the equivalent 
of about $1 billion in deposits. 

Lord Aldington, chairman of National 
and Grindlays, was elected to the Citi- 
corp Board of Directors. William P. 
Gwinn, chairman of United Aircraft Cor- 
poration, was also elected to the Citicorp 
Board. He already was a member of the 
Bank’s Board of Directors. 


There are almost 34,000 Citibankers 
around the world, about 19,000 in New 
York and 15,000 overseas. All of these 
men and women are responsible for the 
accomplishments of FNCB in 1969. Once 
again we express to them our gratitude 
for their performance and loyalty. 


A Look Ahead 


Citibank’s earnings are dependent to a 
large extent on the interest differential 
between the yield on our loans and in- 
vestments and the cost of our funds. This 
differential narrowed in 1969 due mainly 
to our substantial recourse to the Euro- 
dollar market to offset the runoff in cer- 
tificates of deposit. For most of the year, 
the cost of Eurodollars exceeded our 
prime lending rate. 

As 1970 begins, there is evidence that 
demand pressures in the economy are 
lessening and that the conditions which 


gave rise to inflation are gradualiy abat- 
ing. Some relaxation in monetary restraint 
can be expected in the months ahead. 
This policy change, together with a fur- 
ther slowdown in the economy, should 
lead to some reduction in interest rates. 
It should give us more flexibility in pro- 
viding credit to the business community. 
The differential between earning rates 
and the cost of funds should improve. 
This, together with some resumption in 
the growth of loans and investments as 
the monetary authorities relax their re- 
straints, should favorably influence bank 
earnings in 1970. 

We have worked hard in 1969 to further 
improve our operating efficiency. A num- 
ber of automation programs will be com- 
pleted in 1970. These should assist in 
restraining the continuing increase in op- 
erating costs. While the computers are 
flawless in their accuracy, the results are 
no better than the accuracy of the input, 
which is subject to human error. The 
problems of changeover have put severe 
strains on our operating team and have 
occasionally tested the patience of our 
customers. We expect that 1970 will see 
a very marked improvement in these op- 
erations. 

We achieved substantial success in 
1969 in increasing our income from fees 
and commissions and sources other than 
interest on loans and investments. Reve- 
nues from the broadened spectrum of 
financial services offered by the Bank 
and the holding company should result in 
some increases in this income. 

On the whole, we expect 1970 to be a 
year of accelerating progress for the 
Bank, with increased earnings for our 
stockholders, improved facilities and ser- 
vices for our customers, and greater 
opportunities for our staff at home and 
abroad. 


“Leora Drecte_ Mh 3 este GAP, OO whe 


George S. Moore 
Chairman 


Walter B. Wriston 
President 


Richard S. Perkins 
Chairman of the Executive Committee 


ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT 


Outlook for the U.S. Economy 


Throughout most of 1969, the growth 
rate of the United States economy de- 
clined gradually. As 1970 opened, the 
slowdown was accelerating. Consumers 
were cutting back their purchases of 
new cars and other durables. Retail 
sales, generally, were disappointing. 
Commercial construction began to ease 
and housing starts continued to slip. Pro- 
duction continued the decline which 
began in midsummer. It is clear that 
monetary restraint is reducing demands. 

With no relaxation in monetary policy 
as/ the year ended, the economy is ex- 
pected to respond with a further general 
decline in output and profits through the 
first half of 1970 and probably well into 
the second half. However, a relaxation of 
monetary restraint in the first half of 1970 
should lead to an improvement in the 
growth rate before the end of the year. 
The whole strategy of monetary policy 
is to restore noninflationary growth. 

Wage demands by labor are expected 
to remain high. For a time, they will con- 
tinue to anticipate future inflation. Some 
industries will raise prices to cover higher 
wages. But the increases will not stick 
where sales have slowed, inventories ac- 
cumulated and competition stiffened. 
Slower job growth will limit growth of con- 
sumer income and expenditures. 

As sales slow down, profits will bear 
the brunt of excessive wage settlements 
and high fixed costs. Reduced profits 
will force cutbacks in spending for plant 
and equipment. 

Defense spending rose only slightly in 
1969. President Nixon has scheduled ad- 
ditional troop withdrawals from Vietnam, 
which should reduce spending require- 
ments for that conflict. Reduced de- 
fense spending will help fight inflation. 

A decline in the U.S. economy, to- 
gether with some relaxation in monetary 
restraint, should bring reduction in inter- 
est rates. In addition, as the easing in 
the pace of inflation gradually leads to 
more moderate price expectations, in- 
stitutional investors can be expected to 
become more aggressive buyers of 
bonds and mortgages. 

Among the important beneficiaries of 


a more relaxed credit market should be 
housing. Home construction declined 
sharply during 1969. This generally oc- 
curs when anti-inflationary monetary pol- 
icies are applied. But housing picks up 
during general economic declines when 
other industries are slowing down. 

Banks are likely to find that demand for 
business loans will ease in 1970. During 
recessions, corporations typically reduce 
inventories. Receivables and capital out- 
lays grow less rapidly. All of these de- 
velopments reduce needs for bank 
credit. In addition, as bond rates ease, 
corporations can be expected to refund 
some of their short-term bank debt. 
Moreover, business borrowers may turn 
even more heavily to the commercial 
paper market if commercial paper rates 
drop well below long-term rates, as they 
have in past business slowdowns. 

With an improved deposit growth, 
banks would again increase their hold- 
ings of securities. However, portfolios of 
banks and other holders of fixed-income 
obligations have depreciated sharply be- 
cause of severe inflation. No matter how 
quickly inflation tapers off in 1970, it will 
require at least several years of reason- 
able price stability to restore to bonds 
and mortgages the degree of investor 
confidence they held in the early ’60s. 

Another beneficiary of cooler eco- 
nomic conditions should be the nation’s 
international merchandise trade position. 
In 1969, the very rapid increase of im- 
ports of manufactured goods persisted. 
Exports rose markedly, but our perform- 
ance failed to match the growth of export 
markets outside the United States. De- 
fense outlays in the Far East and West- 
ern Europe remained large. 

The long-term capital account of the 
U.S. balance of payments weakened sub- 
stantially because of larger direct invest- 
ment outflows and smaller new issues of 
U.S. corporate securities abroad on the 
one side, and reduced foreign purchases 
of U.S. stocks on the other. Despite the 
extraordinarily high overall liquidity defi- 
cit, the position of the dollar in exchange 
markets was greatly eased because the 
monetary authorities of several of the 
surplus countries sold dollars to private 
holders and investors. 


World Economic Outlook 


High rates of price and wage inflation and 
high and rising interest rates character- 
ized all the main industrial countries in 
1969. Toward the close of 1969, how- 
ever, there were signs that the boom 
was beginning to ease. Anti-inflationary 
monetary and fiscal policies have con- 
tributed to the start of some slowdown 
in economies abroad. 

A slowdown in output in most of the 
industrial countries is foreseeable for 
1970. Price and wage inflation will con- 
tinue but at a diminishing rate. In Ger- 
many, a further slowdown during the sec- 
ond half of the year is possible, owing 
to the combined effects of monetary re- 
striction and the upvaluation of the mark. 
World trade will also slow down sharply 
after expanding for two years at the ex- 
traordinary rate of 12-13 percent a year. 

The diminishing pressure of demand, 
along with an easing of monetary policy 
in the United States, would relieve ten- 
sion in the international money markets. 
Short-term interest rates in most of the 
industrial countries and in the Eurodollar 
market should decline somewhat. 

Despite the deterioration of the U.S. 
competitive position in world trade and 
the continuing large U.S. balance-of- 
payments deficit on the liquidity basis, 
dollars were still in strong demand in 
1969. Dollars were sought because they 
yielded unusually high rates of interest in 
the Eurodollar market. These high rates 
also increased the cost of carrying gold 
and contributed to a steep decline in its 
private market price late in the year. 

In January 1970, a new international 
monetary facility, in the form of special 
drawing rights, was implemented to sup- 
plement gold and dollars in official re- 
serves. SDRs, to be used in settling offi- 
cial international payments, are subject 
to definite limits and safeguards. 


HUMAN ENVIRONMENT 


A basic element of our corporate philos- 
ophy is that we grow and prosper in 
direct proportion to the growth and pros- 
perity of the environment in which we do 
business. 

Seldom has this principle been more 
valid or more sorely tested than it is 
today. Urban problems throughout the 
country have grown beyond the ability 
of government or business, acting inde- 
pendently, to provide solutions. What is 
needed today is a new urban synthesis 
drawing on the best available talent from 
both the public and private sectors. 

Citicorp is aware of its responsibility 
to the City of New York, both as an ele- 
ment of good business and a demonstra- 
tion of corporate citizenship. 

In 1969 Citicorp undertook to reassess 
its role in urban affairs and to establish 
priorities for action, deciding how best 
our substantial strengths and skills could 
be brought to bear on the urban crisis. 

The result was a far-reaching program 
aimed at four root causes of the prob- 
lem: upgrading the City’s human re- 
sources; promoting economic develop- 
ment in disadvantaged areas; helping to 
create better housing and overall im- 
provement of blighted districts; and stim- 
ulating the improvement and efficiency 
of services offered by the City to its 
citizens. 

In 1968, for example, we sponsored 
the first privately financed Street Acad- 
emy in New York. High school dropouts 
from the City’s economically depressed 
areas find new incentives for learning 
and a number of graduates are now at- 
tending college. 

In addition to our continued support 
of the Street Academy, we undertook a 
Labor Department-sponsored training 
program for the hard-core unemployed. 
(For a detailed report on this program 
please refer to the ‘‘People’’ section on 
page 17.) FNCB also developed a pro- 
gram to encourage and facilitate partici- 
pation by its employees in urban activi- 
ties. We have found, not surprisingly, that 
our staff is deeply interested in our cor- 
porate programs for the disadvantaged 
and we are encouraging them to partici- 
pate as their interests, talents and time 
permit. 


A total of $500,000 was committed to 
provide loans and equity capital for new 
businesses in inner city areas; in addi- 
tion, the Bank continued its support of the 
New York Urban Coalition and maintained 
a close liaison with its financing subsid- 
iary, Coalition Venture Corporation. 

In the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of 
Brooklyn, Citibank committed $5 million 
for home mortgages. A total of $11.5 
million was allocated for interim financ- 
ing of housing projects in the Bellevue 
South and West Side sections of Man- 
hattan. This investment represents an in- 
novative approach to the City’s need for 
adequate supplies of low-cost housing. 
Both are basically sound projects in non- 
poverty areas. By providing funds for 
their improvement, Citibank has helped 
avert another potential area of urban 
decay. 

Citibank’s role in improving New York's 
urban services spans a broad range of 
activities. Included among these are the 
collection of cigarette, personal and cor- 
porate income and other taxes for New 
York City, and cigarette and sales taxes 
for the State of New York. We are also 
acting as advisor on New York City pen- 
sion funds and are providing specialized 
payroll services for the City’s Board of 
Education and Human Resources Ad- 
ministration. 

As part of a continuing assessment of 
the City and its needs, the Bank pub- 
lished a comprehensive study of New 
York’s public schools system late last 
year. A companion publication, ‘Poverty 
and Economic Development in New York 
City,’ was produced in 1968; surveys of 
housing and other problems in the City 
are under way and will be published in 
the near future. 


Citibank and the City. (Top) In these 
special facilities, hard-core unemployed 
are trained for full-time positions with 
Citibank, tapping a new source of man- 
power while meeting a basic commitment 
to the community. High school dropouts 
(center) are put back on the track to- 
ward academic and business success 
at this Citibank-sponsored Street Acad- 
emy. (Bottom left) As part of a voluntary, 
off-hours program, one Citibanker is pro- 
viding financial guidance to the growing 
business of dress designer Jon Weston. 
The Bank's mobile employment office 
(bottom right) takes recruiters into areas 
often beyond their normal reach. 


SERVING MANY MARKETS 


January 2, 1969, marked the beginning 
of a new era for Citibank. A new admin- 
istrative structure came into being that 
day. The transformation was the result 
of a 15-month study by a blue-ribbon 
task force comprised of Citibank officers 
and outside consultants. 

The reorganization plan did away with 
the Bank’s traditional geographic align- 
ment. In its place, the task force devel- 
oped a market-oriented structure. It was 
designed to make maximum use of the 
specialized skills of our staff for the ul- 
timate benefit of our customers. 

What evolved was an organization 
uniquely qualified to serve the rapidly 
changing needs of a growing list of mar- 
kets both at home and abroad. Basically, 
Citibank was divided into five new or 
reorganized Groups. The Personal Bank- 
ing Group devotes its attention primarily 
to the requirements of individuals in met- 
ropolitan New York. The Commercial 
Banking Group is concerned with me- 
dium-sized businesses. Because these 
customers were previously served by the 
same staff that handled the accounts of 


the large corporations, they often did not ~ 


get the specialized attention they de- 
served. The third is the Corporate Bank- 
ing Group, which serves national and 
multinational businesses, financial insti- 
tutions and governments. In order to 
serve the needs of these clients more ef- 
fectively, the Corporate Banking Group 
itself is subdivided into industrial divi- 
sions with related financial needs. Each 
customer’s account is assigned to a team 
of account managers that specializes in 
companies basically serving similar mar- 
kets. This, in fact, extends to the entire 
Corporate Banking Group a practice we 
had previously applied to only a few in- 
dustries. 

The International Banking Group con- 
tinues substantially along the same lines 
as its predecessor, the Overseas Divi- 
sion, though some internal restructuring 
has taken place involving greater dele- 
gation of authority to the field. Finally, the 
Investment Management Group is con- 
cerned with the total financial needs of 
individuals to whom investment compe- 
tence is important, and with the invest- 
ment needs of institutional customers. 


What do these changes in Citibank’s 
structure mean to our customers, our 
stockholders and our employees? To our 
customers the reorganization means im- 
proved services, since account officers 
are specially trained to handle the par- 
ticular needs of the individuals or busi- 
nesses in their Group. To our stock- 
holders it offers promise of accelerated 
growth of business and earnings. To our 
employees it means new opportunities 
to expand their professional competence. 
Officers with the potential for senior man- 
agement positions will transfer between 
Groups and not only broaden their ex- 
perience but also bring fresh points of 
view to each Group. 

The one-bank holding company—First 
National City Corporation—was formed 
to open new avenues for expanded ser- 
vice in financially related activities. The 
internal reorganization was designed to 
complement the earlier structural change 
by improving the efficiency of the existing 
and potential services offered to our cus- 
tomers. Despite some minor dislocations 
in the first few months, this purpose has 
been fulfilled. 


Personal Banking Group 


The mission of the Personal Banking 
Group is to provide the consumer and 
small businessman with a full range of 
banking and financially related services, 
at a reasonable cost, and to increase our 
share of this expanding personal bank- 
ing market. 

In the past there was little distinction 
between checking accounts for individu- 
als and checking services offered to 
commercial enterprises. There was some 
attempt at recognizing the personal char- 
acter of an individual’s checking account 
by the development of the Special 
Checking Account some years ago. Fur- 
thermore, we have long felt that individ- 
ual customers should be served in all 
branches of the Bank rather than in just 
their “home” branches. 

In mid-1969 the Personal Banking 
Group introduced the First-Class Check- 
ing program, which made branchwide 
banking a reality. All personal checking 
customers can now cash their checks in 


any of our 181 domestic branches. Cus- 
tomers may choose between two meth- 
ods of paying for these checking account 
services: a flat service charge based on 
the average monthly balance or a ser- 
vice fee related to account activity. 

The Golden Passbook Account, a spe- 
cial type of savings account which pays 
5 percent annually, was made even more 
attractive to customers by guaranteeing 
the 5 percent annual rate through 1975. 
In addition, the minimum initial deposit 
required has been reduced from $1,000 
to $500, and the minimum required for 
additional deposits has been lowered 
from $100 to $50, making it easier to 
open and add to an account. 

The Personal Banking Group also in- 
troduced a variation of the Golden Pass- 
book, the Deferred Income Golden Pass- 
book Account. The account pays 5 per- 
cent a year. Customers may choose to 
defer the receipt of interest and principal 
for a period of from two to 14 years. 

Golden Growth Bonds, an addition to 
our ‘“‘Golden”’ services, were introduced 
in August 1969 and were well received. 
These bonds guarantee 5 percent a year, 
compounded daily. They double in value 
at maturity, 13 years and 316 days from 
the date of issue. Available in nine de- 
nominations, from $25 to $25,000, Golden 
Growth Bonds have proven attractive pri- 
marily to the smaller saver, while the 
Golden Passbook Account has attracted 
the larger investor. 

A major event of 1969 was the con- 
version of our Everything Card, New 
York’s leading bank charge card, to Mas- 
ter Charge. The change, resulting from 
Citibank’s affiliation with the Interbank 
Card Association, extends the usefulness 
of our charge card nationwide and to 
Puerto Rico and 44 countries overseas. 

In the broader sense of new service— 
public service—the Personal Banking 
Group developed a program for cashing 
the checks of Summer Youth Corps em- 
ployees, made its branches available for 
the distribution of identification cards for 
the Transit Authority's Half-Fare-For-The- 
Aged plan, and continued to sell tokens 
when the Transit Authority adopted an 
exact fare program on City buses. 

Citibank is constantly looking for new 


Banking With A Personal Touch. For 
part of the year, free bus service (top left) 
was provided from a Bronx apartment 
complex to local Bank branches. First- 
Class Checking (top right) means cus- 
tomers can cash checks in any of Bank’s 
181 domestic branches. (Middle right) 
Citibank’s adoption of Master Charge 
provides our cardholders with a card 
good nationwide and overseas. “Golden 
Girl’ (lower left) was featured in success- 
ful promotions for Golden Passbook and 
Deferred Income Golden Passbook Ac- 
counts. (Bottom right) Series of meetings 
for domestic branch personnel outlined 
their expanded responsibility following 
Citibank reorganization. 


and better ways to serve its customers 
and improve the Bank’s operational effi- 
ciency. In keeping with this goal, a sys- 
tem called ‘‘Ready-Teller’ was_ intro- 
duced in 1968 to reduce traffic jams and 
waiting time, especially during such peak 
business periods as payday lunch hours. 
This service has been greatly expanded. 

Another time-saving method, the Ex- 
press Deposit Service, has been installed 
in most branches. It enables customers 
to complete virtually any kind of deposit 
transaction without ever seeing a teller 
or waiting in line. Now they merely put 
their deposits and deposit slips in spe- 
cial envelopes and drop them into the 
Express Deposit box. Receipts are re- 
turned to them by mail. 

Innovative service and new techniques 
are essential ingredients in the success 
of the Personal Banking Group, but the 
primary component remains the personal 
and individual attention given to each 
customer. To emphasize to our employ- 
ees the importance of good communica- 
tions with our public, all of our officers 
and customer representatives were 
briefed in a series of meetings on their 
responsibilities to our customers. 

The market orientation of the Personal 
Banking Group has resulted in increased 
emphasis on sales, promotion and ad- 
vertising programs. For example, the 
creation of an incentive program, the 
Achievement Council, has assisted in 
increasing sales. Now Personal Bank 
platform people receive additional rec- 
ognition and rewards for meeting and 
exceeding realistic new-business quotas. 

In 1969, special promotions contrib- 
uted to the success of two of our ser- 
vices, Golden Passbook Accounts and 
Golden Growth Bonds. These contests 
attracted over 600,000 entries. Special 
promotions have also been successful 
in generating new business for Christmas 
Club accounts and for travelers checks. 
Record sales for the latter are continuing 
both here and abroad. 

Last summer, the Personal Banking 
Group embarked on a new advertising 
campaign. The theme, ‘‘a nice little revo- 
lution at First National City,” explains 
how our reorganization benefits Personal 
Banking customers. 


10 


Commercial Banking Group 


The Commercial Banking Group offers a 
broad range of services and products to 
medium-sized businesses and industries 
principally based in New York City. Be- 
cause of their size, many Commercial 
Banking Group customers do not have 
large management staffs. As a result, an 
important element of the Group’s service 
is to provide expert financial advice and 
counsel on many aspects of its custom- 
ers’ business activities. 

FNCB Capital Corporation, a federally 
licensed Small Business Investment Cor- 
poration operating in the venture capital 
markets, has played an important role 


_in financing many new and developing 


enterprises. Technology Communication, 
Inc., and Zebra Associates, Inc., are two 
examples of organizations financed by 
the Capital Corporation. 

Technology Communication provides 
continuing education services for the 
technical community. Its first venture into 
this market is the Innovation Group which 
uses a multimedia approach to help 
managers of advancing technology keep 
abreast of new developments. 

Zebra Associates, Inc., an advertising 
agency, was formed on the premise that 
most mass advertising campaigns are 
simply not reaching the low-income mar- 
ket. Raymond A. League and Joan 
Murray developed the idea for an agency 
whose staff combines extensive adver- 
tising experience with a first-hand knowl- 
edge of the life-style of the inner city. 
Because League and his associates are 
firmly committed to the concept of black 
entrepreneurship, Zebra is offering its 
services to a limited number of black and 
minority group small businessmen oper- 
ating in depressed areas. 

One of the Commercial Banking 
Group’s major 1969 accomplishments 
was its leadership in establishing $300 
million of bank lines of credit for the Fed- 
eral National Mortgage Association (Fan- 
nie Mae). Formerly Government-owned, 
Fannie Mae became a private corpora- 
tion in September 1968. It is the chief 
financing source for all home mortgages 
insured by the Federal Housing Admin- 
istration or guaranteed by the Veterans 
Administration. 


Citibank brought together 23 other 
leading commercial banks across the na- 
tion to participate in establishing the 
credit line. It marked the first time Fannie 
Mae had sought credit from anyone but 
the U.S. Treasury. 

The Commercial Banking Group’s cre- 
ative approach to financing is exempli- 
fied by its assistance to a Westchester- 
based general aviation service company. 
The company required an initial $500,- 
000 to modernize its facilities and expand 
its services, which include storage, main- 
tenance and operation of sophisticated 
business aircraft. Commercial Bank loan 
experts from three different areas evalu- 
ated the company, its proposal and its 
new management team—notably its dy- 
namic young president, who combines 
a love of flying with the ability and zeal 
to revitalize the company. Citibank lent 
the money for seven years and also ex- 
tended a $50,000 line for working capital 
purposes—since raised to $150,000. 

The result has been a profitable rela- 
tionship with a firm that has turned defi- 
cit into profit in less than a year, has 
established one of the largest general 
aviation service facilities in Florida, and — 
is on its way to building a nationwide 
chain of facilities to serve the rapidly ex- 
panding general aviation industry. 

The Commercial Banking Group in- 
cludes Citibank’s factoring and finance 
business, acquired by the Bank in 1965. 
Factoring is a centuries-old financing 


Varied World of Commercial Banking. 
The many markets served by the Com- 
mercial Banking Group include a wide 
variety of businesses. Through FNCB 
Capital Corporation, Citibank has an 
equity position in a unique integrated 
advertising agency (top) and a fran- 
chised chain of fast food outlets (bot- 
tom left). Spools of newly-dyed yarn 
(bottom center) symbolize our involve- 
ment in the textile industry. (Bottom right) 
Citibank was a leader in establishing 
$300 million in bank lines of credit for 
the Federal National Mortgage Associa- 
tion, chief financing source for FHA and 
VA home mortgages. 


ae 


Bhasin 


SoG peor 


SeKy 


NASA PHOTO 
oTO F STD. (N.J.) PHOTO 


Frontiers. The companies served by Citi- 
bank are engaged in activities ranging 
from living space to outer space. We are 
the lead bank for an upstate New York 
producer of modular homes (above), 
which represent a promising solution to 
the nation’s need for low-priced housing. 
(Lower left) Prime contractors for the 
Apollo flights bank with us, as do many of 
the companies searching for oil on Alas- 
ka’s North Slope (lower right). And we 
have established a profitable relationship 
with a growing general aviation service 
company (center). 


device developed to meet the special 
needs of the textile business. It is still 
relied on heavily by textile manufacturers, 
but has been adapted and used exten- 
sively by other industries as well. 

Early in 1968, the Bank began factor- 
ing the account of an Alabama mill en- 
gaged in the specialized business of 
texturing and package dyeing both na- 
tural and synthetic yarn. Citibank’s as- 
sociation with the mill dates almost from 
its beginning in a converted warehouse. 

That same mill today has an annual 
sales volume in excess of $15 million. 
The company has grown into an around- 
the-clock, seven-day-a-week operation 
in a 100,000 square foot building. An- 
other 100,000 square feet are under 
construction, and the Bank recently 
agreed to a $1 million term loan to fi- 
nance machinery for the new building. 

The Computer Services Department 
offers data processing services of par- 
ticular interest to smaller businesses in 
the New York area. The Group’s payroll 
service is currently one of our fastest 
growing products. 


Corporate Banking Group 


The Corporate Banking Group serves 
large corporate, financial institution and 
government customers across the na- 
tion. It is the New York City correspon- 
dent for banks located in every state. 

Because the Transportation and Aero- 
space Department counts among its cus- 
tomers NASA’s major contractors, repre- 
sentatives of the Corporate Banking 
Group were present at the launching of 
Apollo 11. Citibankers were proud of the 
role played by the Bank in man’s great- 
est achievement of the century. 

Just as some Citibankers witnessed 
the start of man’s epic journey to the 
moon, others participated in the start of 
a different adventure of major signifi- 
cance: the search for oil on Alaska’s 
barren North Slope. Members of the Cor- 
porate Banking Group’s Petroleum De- 
partment were on hand with checks 
amounting to 45 percent of the down 
payment for the $900 million of winning 
bids for the North Slope concession. The 
checks, drawn for oil company accounts 
at Citibank, indicate the Bank’s strong 


position in the industry. 

Naturally, not all of the Corporate 
Banking Group’s activities are on this 
history-making level. Most deal with 
down-to-earth problems and with the 
needs of the nation’s businesses. One 
example involves the shortage of low- 
cost housing throughout the United 
States. Factory-built modular homes rep- 
resent an imaginative step toward solv- 
ing the problem. Each module leaves the 
factory completed down to the floor cov- 
ering. The modules are trucked to a hous- 
ing site, “stacked” like blocks to form 
a finished building, and bolted in place. 

One of the most successful modular 
home firms is located in upstate New 
York. It recently began a 1,500-unit “inner 
city complex” in Akron, Ohio, under the 
direction of the local housing authority 
and with the support of the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development. 

The Corporate Banking Group’s asso- 
ciation with the firm began shortly after 
its formation in 1968. Citibank has since 
provided substantial financing to support 
the company’s activities, and is now the 
company’s principal bank. 

Through its new Corporate Services 
Division, the Corporate Banking Group 
provides specialized product skills in 
such areas as corporate agencies, cash 
management, and correspondent bank 
securities services. Two of the Division’s 
newest services illustrate its continuing 
search for ways in which to serve existing 
markets more resourcefully and attract 
new customers: 

The Citibank Automatic Dividend Re- 
investment Service offers shareholders 
a convenient and inexpensive way to re- 
invest dividends in their company’s stock. 
The shareholder benefits from automatic 
accumulation of full and fractional 
shares, dollar-cost averaging, and the 
very low commission rates usually avail- 
able only to purchasers of sizable 
amounts of stock. At present, the service 
is available to shareholders of the Amer- 
ican Telephone & Telegraph Co., Alle- 
ghany Power System, Inc., Gamble- 
Skogmo, Inc., and Stewart-Warner Corp. 

Our Financial Services network of 
computer programs assists banks and 
corporations in the evaluation of infor- 


13 


CONTINENTAL OIL CO. PHOTO 


Around the World in 80 Countries. Ad- 
ditions to the International Banking 
Group’s worldwide network of offices 
during 1969 increased to 80 the number 
of foreign countries in which Citibank 
operates. One of the Bank's newest over- 
seas branch quarters (above) was dedi- 
cated in Geneva, Switzerland, during 
December. Our ultramodern office in 
Dubai (lower left) contrasts markedly 
with the Persian Guif nation’s open-air 
market. (Lower right) A major acquisition 
during the year was Citibank’s purchase 
of a 76 percent interest in Far East Bank 
Limited, which operates 13 branches 
in Hong Kong. 


mation and in decision-making. The net- 
work is, in essence, a ‘‘lending library” 
which can be drawn on by customers 
through the use of terminals located in 
their offices. These programs range from 
credit and investment analysis to capital 
planning. Frequent seminars are held to 
familiarize customers with the system 
and to keep them abreast of the rapidly 
evolving application of computers to all 
levels of analytical work. 


International Banking Group 


There is a tendency among some people 
to think of Citibank as primarily an inter- 
national bank, despite the fact that it is 
New York’s largest and the second big- 
gest in the United States. 

Considering the scope of the Interna- 
tional Banking Group’s worldwide activi- 
ties, the mistake is an easy one to make. 
In 1914 we became the first U.S. national 
bank to establish an overseas branch. 
Since that time, the network of overseas 
offices has reached into 80 countries. A 
major addition to that network was made 
early in 1969 with Citibank’s purchase of 
a 40 percent interest in National and 
Grindlays Bank Limited (discussed in last 
year’s Annual Report). 

Two additional acquisitions made by 
the IBG were its purchase of a 76 percent 
interest in Far East Bank Limited, Hong 
Kong, and a 35 percent interest in Ira- 
nians’ Bank. 

Far East Bank operates 13 branches in 
Hong Kong. Its assets at the end of 1969 
were reported at $19.4 million. Iranians’ 
Bank operates four offices in Iran. 

In addition, one of the Bank’s subsidi- 
aries acquired a minority interest in Se- 
Curities Management Company, Ltd., 
which was established in 1964 to admin- 
ister and distribute investment funds out- 
side the United States. The company 
manages some $160 million in assets 
and maintains 28 offices in Europe, Af- 
rica, Asia and the Middle East. 

First National City Development Fi- 
nance Corporation (Thailand) Limited 
was established by the IBG in the sum- 
mer of 1969. A wholly owned develop- 
ment finance subsidiary with headquar- 
ters in Bangkok, the company offers 
long-term loans and equity financing for 


the expansion needs of established com- 
panies and the start-up requirements of 
new firms in Thailand. Formation of the 
new company followed by a month the 
Bank’s agreement with Bangkok Bank 
Limited to set up a joint venture invest- 
ment banking affiliate in the Thai capital. 
Called Bangkok First Investment and 
Trust Ltd., it offers investment banking, 
financial and management consulting, fi- 
duciary services, real estate finance and 
short-term money operations. 

Two other highlights of the Interna- 
tional Banking Group’s 1969 activities 
were its “exports” of financial services 
that have gained wide acceptance here 
but are little known overseas, and the ex- 
panded use of computer-based automa- 
tion systems in its global network. 

Citicorp Leasing International Inc., 
operating in the United Kingdom and 
continental Europe, extends our strong 
domestic equipment leasing position to 
markets outside the United States. Ini- 
tially, Citicorp Leasing will concentrate 
on the computer market in the U.K. and 
Germany. 

Looking toward the day when comput- 
ers will be talking to each other around 
the world by way of satellite, Citibank has 
begun to develop a chain of data pro- 
cessing centers to serve its worldwide 
branch network. Of the seven centers al- 
ready in operation, two were opened in 
1969: in London and Brussels. Two more 
are scheduled for completion this year 
(in Panama City and Caracas), and five 
others are planned for 1971. 


Investment Management Group 


Making money grow is no easy job, par- 
ticularly at a time when many people look 
for ways just to make it stop shrinking. 
Throughout the years, the Citibank orga- 
nizations now making up the Investment 
Management Group have compiled an 
impressive record as managers for pen- 
sion funds, institutions and individuals 
seeking the most effective use of their 
capital. 

Investing pension and profit sharing 
funds is the fastest growing part of the 
Group’s activities, as well as a highly 
competitive part of the overall asset man- 
agement business. The productivity of 


these funds is of critical importance to 
corporations and unions, as it signifi- 
cantly affects the ultimate cost of their 
employee benefit programs. 

With more than $5 billion of such funds 
under its trusteeship and management, 
the Group in 1969 again achieved su- 
perior investment performance, particu- 
larly for the increasingly larger portions 
of the funds devoted to equity investment. 

Another noteworthy indication of the 
successful investment year was the rec- 
ord of the First National City Fund, a new 
offshore fund created to enable investors 
in other countries to participate in the 
growth of the U.S. economy. The First 
National City Fund, to which the Invest- 
ment Management Group provides in- 
vestment advice, began operation in 
January 1969; by year end unit value had 
increased 11 percent. 

A consistent investment philosophy 
has guided the investment management 
activities of FNCB for many years. When 
purchasing common stocks for accounts 
under our management, we emphasize 
those companies whose earnings will, in 
our estimation, grow at a considerably 
more rapid rate than that of the general 
economy and do so on a relatively pre- 
dictable basis. Our investment research 
focuses on the profit potential of indus- 
tries and companies in the context of 
the economic outlook, rather than con- 
centrating on short-term market timing. 
Accordingly, technology-based and con- 
sumer-oriented companies currently rep- 
resent the largest portion of equity port- 
folios under our management. 

During 1969, the Investment Manage- 
ment Group introduced a number of ser- 
vices designed to broaden its usefulness 
to existing customers and assist in the 
development of profitable new markets. 

Early in the year, the checking ac- 
counts, loans, savings and time deposits 
of 7,000 current and potential investment 
service customers were transferred to 
the Investment Management Group. Spe- 
cially trained officers at seven domestic 
branches administer these accounts, pro- 
viding credit facilities, estate and tax 
planning assistance, and investment ad- 
vice. These changes, in effect, have es- 
tablished a full-service Bank within the 


15 


overall Citibank structure for people 
whose primary banking need is for asset 
management. 

Personal Financial Counseling, a new 
service, is now being offered to corpora- 
tions and their key executives. This ser- 
vice is designed to relieve an executive 
of the burden of attending to his personal 
financial affairs by providing him with 
professional analysis and advice. 

The special characteristics and needs 
of endowment-type funds of educational, 
religious and charitable institutions also 
received more intensive servicing by the 
creation of a unit in the Institutional In- 
vestment Division that concentrates on 
this market. 

During the year, the Investment Man- 
agement Group actively pursued a pro- 
gram of converting smaller trust accounts 
from individual investments to common 
trust funds. The use of common funds 
offers significant advantages for both the 
customer and the Bank. By pooling a 
number of smaller accounts, each par- 
ticipating trust benefits from the broader 
investment diversification provided by 
common trusts and from the constant 
supervision of one of the Group’s top in- 
vestment managers. For Citibank, the 
use of common trusts leads to improved 
administrative efficiency. 

On November 24, the Bank reopened 
its Commingled Investment Account, a 
no-load pooled advisory account de- 
signed primarily for investors of moder- 
ate means. Established in 1966, the Com- 
mingled Account was closed to new 
members in 1967 pending the outcome 
of two court cases seeking to block bank 
operation of mutual-type funds. In July 
1969 the U.S. Court of Appeals ruled 
unanimously that commingled accounts 
constitute proper activities for bank trust 
departments. Further judicial and legis- 
lative review is likely, but we are hopeful 
that no new roadblocks will arise. 

Citibank’s Commingled Investment Ac- 
count is the first—and, at this point, only 
—such fund in existence. Although con- 
siderable competition can be anticipated, 
substantial growth is expected in this 
business, since for the first time the In- 
vestment Management Group has a ser- 
vice for the middle-income market. 


16 


Along with other banks in New York, 
Citibank benefited from the State Legis- 
lature’s decision to raise fees for per- 
sonal trust services. It was the first in- 
crease voted by the Legislature in 13 
years. In recognition of the same cost 
pressures, the Investment Management 
Group readjusted its pricing of services 
not subject to legislative determination. 

Last year was not without its problems 
for the Investment Management Group. 
Because of our sizable asset manage- 
ment business and our custodial and 
safekeeping services for many custom- 
ers, our ‘‘back office’ handles approxi- 
mately $680 million in securities each 
day. This, no doubt, ranks us among the 
largest processors of securities in the 
country and exposes us to the same 
backlogs that plagued Wall Street 
throughout 1969. A computer-based on- 
line system developed by the Investment 
Management Group and placed in ser- 
vice in 1969 has significantly improved 
our ability to record accurately and 
quickly the delivery and receipt of se- 
curities. More third-generation computer 
record keeping systems are now under 
development. 


Operating Group 


The restructuring of Citibank has focused 
the spotlight on the Bank’s customer 
contact Groups, and understandably so. 
To the many markets we serve, these 
Groups are the visible face of Citibank. 
To our stockholders, they are the centers 
where the profits are. But behind them is 
another major element of the ‘‘new’”’ 
Bank, without which most of the accom- 
plishments described in these pages 
would not have been possible. 

The Operating Group is the Bank’s 
“back office.” A huge paper processing 
“factory,” it handles myriad diverse 
transactions around the clock, seven 
days a week. The Group’s four-fold mis- 
sion is to provide efficient processing 
services for all the Bank’s customer con- 
tact Groups; feed information on past 
performance to officers as a basis for de- 
ciding future policy; maintain a ‘‘house- 
keeping” system that provides all areas 
of Citibank with the best possible facili- 
ties and services and apply new tech- 


nological advances to upgrade present 
systems and develop new services for 
the Bank’s clients. 

A major reorganization was carried out 
within the Operating Group during 1969. 
The primary goal of this realignment was 
to unify in natural areas the bits and 
pieces of entire systems—such as check 
and deposit processing, domestic and 
foreign funds transfer, and documentary 
collections and commercial credits. As a 
result of the ‘“‘systems’” approach, the 
Operating Group is now divided into 
three major areas. 

Area | is a conglomerate of large pro- 
cessing systems, whose principal ‘‘tool” 
is people. Its 3,600 employees handle 
nearly two tons of paper every day. Area 
ll is the center of the Bank’s design and 
management of computer-based sys- 
tems, which is the basis for the high 
technology of the ’70s. Area III, the house- 
keeping force, has a diversity of func- 
tions which range from renting branch 
locations to running a bus service be- 
tween the Bank’s uptown headquarters 
and 55 Wall Street and its 24-story op- 
erations center at the foot of Wall Street. 

One of the most significant elements 
of the Operating Group’s reorganization 
was the creation of the Central Investiga- 
tion Division within Area |. As the amount 
and complexity of transactions have in- 
creased over the years, the number of 
problems which can arise during pro- 
cessing can, at times, be substantial. The 
Central Investigation Division was cre- 
ated specifically to track down difficulties 
to their sources and feed back vital cor- 
rective information. 

Perhaps less noticeable than the tan- 
gible results provided by the reorgani- 
zation is the Operating Group’s develop- 
ment of a new approach to solving prob- 
lems that face the management of such a 
large, complicated web of processing 
systems. Currently, a significant part of 
the Group’s attention is directed toward 
understanding the intricacies of the mas- 
sive work flows and to mastering the de- 
tails of handling the myriad transactions 
that make up the never-ending flow of 
paper. 

As a result, there is an intense aware- 
ness of the need for a high degree of 


Money Managers. Making money grow 
is no easy job. Today it takes in-depth 
skill and aggressive planning. Citibank’s 
Investment Management Group exempli- 
fies that approach. Over the years, the 
Group has compiled an impressive rec- 
ord as managers of funds for institutions 
and individuals seeking the most effec- 
tive use of their capital. 


technical competence in the areas of 
computer science, operations research 
and production management. Our suc- 
cess in developing these skills will bridge 
the gap between the traditional paper 
processing of the past and the electronic 
transaction systems of the ’70s. 


People 


No matter how carefully it is structured, 
how clearly defined are its goals or how 
sophisticated its equipment, an organi- 
zation succeeds because of its people. 

A total of 33,900 people make up Citi- 
bank’s worldwide staff. Overseas, about 
14,900 serve the Bank and its subsidi- 
aries. The overseas staff consists of 
1,800 officers and 13,100 nonofficial em- 
ployees. Almost 98 percent of the people 
who work for Citibank outside the United 
States and its territories are foreign na- 
tionals. For the most part, they are re- 
cruited from schools and universities in 
the countries where they work and also 
from the general labor markets. 

Citibank’s domestic staff numbers 
19,000; 1,850 are officers and 17,150 are 
nonofficial employees. What are they 
like? While it’s not easy to characterize 
the nature of a staff as large and diverse 
as our domestic work force, this profile 
can be drawn: 


e Most nonofficial staff members (68 
percent) are younger than 40. Nearly 
three fourths of Citibank’s officers are 
between 31 and 55 years old. 


e The Personal Banking Group employs 
the largest number of people: 30 percent 
of our officers and 35 percent of all non- 
official employees. The Operating Group 
ranks second, with 11 percent of the 
Bank’s officers and 33 percent of the 
nonofficial staff. 


e There are more Citibankers with 10 or 
more years’ service (28 percent) than 
there are with less than one year’s ser- 
vice. And there is a 50-50 split between 
people who have been with Citibank 


Hy 


more than three years and those with 
less than three years’ service. 


e For the most part, Citibankers live 
where they work. Three of every four em- 
ployees reside in one of New York’s five 
boroughs. 


e Nearly 3,300 employees took advan- 
tage of Bank-sponsored education and 
training programs during 1969. Most 
popular among the many other programs 
available is the tuition refund plan—de- 
signed to help employees complete their 
college educations or achieve other self- 
development goals. The Bank orientation, 
office skills, and banking and financial 
training programs also attracted many 
staff members. 


e In keeping with the Bank’s goal of of- 
fering career opportunities—instead of 
jobs—6,988 nonofficial promotions were 
made in 1969 and 541 official promo- 
tions, including 319 officers appointed 
from the noncfficial staff. 

Citibank’s domestic work force is re- 
cruited from many sources. Our profes- 
sional and clerical employees generally 
come from the New York labor market. 
Colleges throughout the country are vis- 
ited on a year-round basis in a continu- 
ing effort to attract graduates to the Bank. 

Four of the Bank’s six major Groups 
exceeded their 1969 college recruiting 
goals and one got exactly as many grad- 
uates as it sought. The one Group which 
fell below its recruiting goals hired 16 of 
the 20 people it wanted. 

Competition in the New York job mar- 
ket became increasingly keen, as un- 
employment dropped. and demand for 
qualified workers rose. This has been 
particularly evident in our search for cler- 
ical employees. 

To help meet its growing need for 
people to fill such positions as branch 
tellers, junior and intermediate clerks, 
typists and keypunch operators, the Bank 
launched a unique mobile employment 
office during the year. Housed in a spe- 
cially designed trailer, the ‘““Jobmobile”’ 
reverses the normal employment process 
by bringing recruiters to the people, often 
in areas beyond Citibank’s normal reach. 
It is manned by a staff able to complete 


18 


the total interviewing process on the spot. 

During the year, we entered into two 
additional agreements with the U.S. De- 
partment of Labor to train for full-time 
employment at Citibank men and women 
who had been certified as. ‘‘hard-core 
unemployed.” The original agreement— 
one of the largest of its kind under the 
President's Job Opportunities in the 
Business Sector (J.0.B.S.) program— 
called for the Bank to train 700 people 
between July 1968 and June 1969. Our 
success with the employees gained 
through the first contract provided the 
impetus for the two new Labor Depart- 
ment agreements. The second agree- 
ment, signed early in 1969, brought 360 


‘additional trainees to our Canal Street 


center. The third contract, signed in De- 
cember, calls for 420 more to receive 
training. In addition to preparing trainees 
for entry-level clerical employment with 
Citibank, the new Department of Labor 
contracts may also include a program 
to upgrade the skill levels of present 
employees. 

The program devised by Citibank’s 
staff has demonstrated its ability to pro- 
vide well-trained employees on a con- 
tinuing basis. It has also shown that, with 
a balanced training program, the disad- 
vantaged of our community can become 
effective and productive citizens. Under 
the terms of the three agreements, al- 
most all the extraordinary costs of qual- 
ifying trainees, other than our normal 
administrative expenses, are borne by 
the Department of Labor. 

A long-standing Citibank policy was 
revised during the year to permit the hir- 
ing of close relatives of Bank employees. 

The Bank’s employee programs un- 
dergo continuing review. Some of the 
highlights during 1969 were a stock pur- 
chase plan for those employees with the 
Bank for at least two years, whose annual 
salaries were not more than $25,000: im- 
provement in the checking account facili- 
ties available to officers and staff mem- 
bers to enable them to become First- 
Class Checking Account cardholders; 
and liberalization of the application re- 
quirements for college scholarships 
made available to employees through the 
National City Foundation. 


Helping Hands. The Operating Group Is, 
literally, the hands of Citibank. It proc- 
esses the huge volume of paper, sorts 
out myriad transactions, and supplies 
needed information for all the Bank’s 
activities. The Operating Group is the 
Bank’s “‘back office.” It unifies bits and 
pieces of entire systems, such as check 
and deposit processing, domestic and 
foreign funds transfer and documentary 
collections and commercial credits. 


ee 


Cs oem 


1 OF Ay 


® 
ees. 


ped 


ig 


DIVISION II . ; 
Canada and Caribbean 
Bahamas 2 . 
Barbados 2 

Canada 11 

Canal Zone 1 
Colombia 20 
Dominican Republic 5 
Ecuador 7 

El Salvador 1 
Guantanamo Bay 1 
Honduras 7 

Jamaica 3 

Mexico5 | 
Netherlands Antilles 1 
Nicaragua 1 

Panama 15 

Puerto Rico12 . 
Trinidad and Tobago 3: 
Venezuela 4 

Virgin Islands 2 


npOvozerxc-rommMINOD> 


OVERSEAS BRANCHES, __ 
BANKING SUBSIDIARIES AND 
AFFILIATES—633 IN 80 COUNTRIES 


Slims 
/ fhe 
Po 


Dots represent cities in which offices are located. 
Figures indicate number of offices in each country. 


DIVISION IV 
Europe — 

A Belgium 5 
B France 8 


C Germany 5 

D Greece 4 
E Ireland1 

F Italy 2 Wie ae 
G Netherlands 4 i 

H Spain 3 : 


I Switzerland 4 
J United Kingdom 24 


tf 


DIVISION V 


South Asia, Middle East and Africa 

A AbuDhabi2 J Gabon3 S Mauritania3 AA Saudi Arabia 2 
B Cameroon6  K India 63 T Morocco 2 BB Senegal 4 

C Cent.Af.Rep.1 L Iran 4 U Muscatand CC Somalia 2 

D Ceylon 4 M Ivory Coast 8 Oman 1 DD South Africa 6 
E Chad 2 N Jordan 12 V Niger 4 EE Sudan 11 

F Congo 2 O Kenya 81 W Nigeria 4 FF Togo2 

G Cyprus 17 P Lebanon 1 X Pakistan23. GG Uganda 51 

H Dahomey 2 Q Liberia 6 Y Qatar 2 HH Upper Volta 2 

| Dubai 1 R Mali 1 Z Rhodesia 13 I! Zambia 14 


if DIVISION | 

Asia and Pacific F Korea 2 

A Australia 4 G Malaysia 3 
B Guam 1 H Philippines 4 

C Hong Kong20 __ |! Republic of China 1 
D Indonesia 2 J Singapore 3 

E Japans5 K Thailand 2 


a 


DIVISION Ill 
South America 
A Argentina 31 
B Bolivia3 

C Brazil 11 

D Chile 10 

E Paraguay 4 
F Peru7 

G Uruguay 3 


METROPOLITAN NEW YORK BRANCHES 


Dots indicate scope of branch network. Figures show exact number in each county and borough. 


Metropolitan Regional Boards* 


Nassau Board 
GEORGE F. BAKER, JR. 
Trustee, 

George F. Baker Trust 


HENRY R. BANG 

Executive Vice President, 

Long Island Health and Hospital 
Planning Council, Inc. 


FORD BARTLETT 
President, 


Lockwood, Kessler & Bartlett, Inc. 


MARTIN DWYER, JR. 
Sprague, Dwyer, Aspland & Tobin 


EDGAR S. HILL 
Glen Head, N.Y. 


FRANCIS J. MOSES 

Vice President, 

Long Island 

New York Telephone Company 


EDWARD C. NEZBEDA 
Vice President, 
Grumman Aerospace Corporation 


ALEXANDER PAULSEN 
Patchogue Homes Corporation 


JOSEPH USHKOW 
President, 
Endo Laboratories Incorporated 


HOWARD B. WAKEMAN 
Roxbury Road, Garden City 


ROBERT WINTHROP 
Honorary Chairman, 
Wood, Struthers & Winthrop Inc. 


Westchester Board 

DAVID M. BRUSH 
Treasurer, 

General Foods Corporation 


WILLIAM N, CREASY 
President, 
Burroughs Wellcome Fund 


BERNARD F, CURRY, JR. 
President, 
The Curry Corporation 


WARREN C. HUME 

Senior Vice President, 
International Business 
Machines Corporation 


* Other than members who are First National City Bank officials 


22 


THOMAS D. NAST 
President & Treasurer, 
All-State Welding 
Alloys Co., Inc. 


H. HALSTED PARK, JR. 
President, 
H. H. Park, Incorporated 


Staten Island Board 
STANLEY M. BLAUSER, JR. 
General Commercial Manager, 
Brooklyn 

New York Telephone Company 


DR. PAUL W. DIECKMAN 
Vice President, 
Wagner College 


WILLIAM A. DREYER 
Benedict Road, Staten Island 


HERBERT A. FLAMM 
President, 
Weitzman's Photo Shop, Inc 


ARTHUR J. GRYMES, III 


Chairman of the Board & President, 


Brewer Dry Dock Company 


WINSTON E. HIMSWORTH 

Vice President— 

Staten Island Operations, 

The Brooklyn Union Gas Company 


KENNETH W. NELSON 
President, 
Tech Products, Inc. 


WILLIAM G. QUINN 

Port Ivory Division Manager, 
The Procter & Gamble 
Manufacturing Company 


THOMAS A. RYAN 
Treasurer and General Manager, 


Richmond Poster Advertising Co., Inc. 


EDWARD W. THOMPSON 
President, 
E. Thompson Paving Corporation 


CORNELIUS VANDERBILT 
President, 


Vanbro Construction Corporation 


WALTER L. VAN NOSTRAND 
Midland Road, Staten Island 


JOSEPH WEISSGLASS 
President, 
Weissglass Gold Seal Dairy Corp. 


PRINCIPAL AFFILIATED COMPANIES 


Listed below are affiliates engaged in 
general banking or in specialized fields 
of banking and finance. In each case, the 
year of acquisition or organization and 
the percentage of ownership is shown. 


General Banking 


Banco Argentino del Atlantico, S.A. 
(1967) (80%) operates nine offices in 
the Mar del Plata area, south of Buenos 
Aires, Argentina. 


Banco de Honduras S.A. (1965) (59%) 
operates seven offices in Honduras. In 
addition to FNCB officials, A. S. Midence 
is a member of the board. 


The Bank of Monrovia (1955) (100%) 
operates six offices in Liberia. 


Banque Internationale pour |’Afrique Oc- 
cidentale (1965) (49%) operates 44 of- 
fices in central and western Africa. It also 
operates four offices in France. Citibank 
representatives on the board are E. E. 
Bradford, G. A. Costanzo, J. T. Fogarty, 
P. Jefferys, J-P. Koszul and C. M. Stewart. 


Far East Bank Limited (1969) (76%) op- 
erates in Hong Kong with 13 offices 
principally in Kowloon and the New Ter- 
ritories. The only outside director is D. T. 
K. Chiu, chmn. 


First National City Bank (Channel Islands) 
Limited (1969) (100%) operates an office 
in St. Helier on the island of Jersey. 


First National City Bank (Maghreb) (1967) 
(100%) operates two offices in Morocco. 


The First National City Bank of New York 
(South Africa) Ltd. (1958) (100%) oper- 
ates six offices in South Africa. Directors 
other than FNCB officials are C. L. Bar- 
nett, D. D. Forsyth, H. L. Kennedy, E. B. 
Pagden,L.C.M. Rattray and E.C. Woods. 


/ranians’ Bank (1969) (35%) operates four 
offices in Iran. Citibank representatives 
on the board are P. Jefferys, J. Koster, 
C. M. Stewart and P. G. Wodtke. 


The Mercantile Bank of Canada (1963) 
(100%) operates nine offices in Canada. 
In addition to Citibank officials, directors 
are A.Bachand, H.A. Benham, J.L. Black, 
W. J. Borrie, P. Coté, JU. T. Johnson, Q.C., 
H. T. Mitchell, A. T. Seedhouse, H. A. 
Steinberg, E. H. Tanner, O.B.E., and Maj. 
Gen. A. E. Walford. 


National and Grindlays Bank Limited 
(1969) (40%) operates 292 offices prin- 
cipally in the Middle East, Southern Asia, 
Africa and the United Kingdom. Citibank 
representatives on the board are G. A. 
Costanzo, G. S. Moore and P. A. Tileston. 


Specialized Banking and 
Financial Services 


Bangkok First Investment and Trust Ltd. 
(1969) (50%), a joint venture with Bang- 
kok Bank Limited, conducts an invest- 
ment banking business in Thailand. Di- 
rectors other than FNCB officials are B. 
Rojanstein, chmn., C. Sophonpanich and 
P. Vinyaratu. 


FNCB Capital Corporation (1967) 
(100%) is a small business investment 
company organized to provide equity 
capital and long-term loans to growing 
concerns. The only outside director is 
ii. Radvalmage: 


FNCB Services Corporation (1965) 
(100%) manages the Bank’s travelers 
check and credit card activities. It also 
operates a retail travel service in New 
York and overseas. 


FNCB-Waltons Corporation Ltd. (1966) 
(50%) is a leading finance company in 
Australia with offices in Sydney, Brisbane 
and Melbourne. In addition to FNCB of- 
ficials, directors are B. D. Canny, D. B. 
Sanderson, A. E. Vrisakis, J. R. Walton 
and J. S. Walton. 


First National City Bank (International) 
(1967) (100%) in San Francisco is an 
Edge Act banking corporation offering 
a broad range of international banking 
services, particularly to our branches, 
correspondents and clients overseas. 


First National City Development Finance 
Corporation (Thailand) Limited (1969) 
(100%) provides long-term loans to com- 
panies in Thailand. 


First National City Overseas Investment 
Corporation (1961) (100%) is an Edge 
Act investment corporation which facili- 
tates foreign capital transactions and 
makes equity investments abroad. 


First National City Trust Company (Ba- 
hamas) Ltd. (1961) (100%) conducts a 
general trust business under the laws 
of the Bahamas and affords various ad- 
vantages to foreign customers and for- 
eign subsidiaries of U.S. corporations. 
In addition to FNCB officials, members 
of the board are L. A. Astley-Bell, Hon. 
Eugene Dupuch, Q.C., M. P. Maura, Col. 
A. T. Maxwell, Rt. Hon. Lord Rootes, Hon. 
Sir R. T. Symonette, C. Y. Tung and J. 
W. Walker, Q.C. 


International Trust Company (1968) 
(100%) conducts a general trust busi- 
ness and operates two offices in Canada. 
Directors other than FNCB officials are 
J. G. Godsoe, Hon. A. A. Macnaughton, 
P.C., Q.C., F. Mercier, Q.C., W. S. Rob- 
ertson, D.F.C., Q.C., and L. Rousseau. 


National City Financial Trust Ltd. (1967) 
(93%) operates in the hire purchase, 
mortgage loan and personal loan fields 
through 13 offices in the United Kingdom. 


New York London Trustee Co. Ltd. (1964) 
(100%) provides trust and investment 
services to companies in the United 
Kingdom. 


23 


FINANCIAL SUMMARY 


The Year’s Earnings 


For 1969 Consolidated Income before 
Securities Profits or Losses of First Na- 
tional City Corporation and its subsidi- 
aries was $130,580,000. This total was 
$10,105,000 or 8.4% higher than the 
comparable figure for 1968. On a per 
share basis, the figures were $4.83 for 
1969 compared with $4.50 for 1968. After 
securities losses, Net Income was $119,- 
414,000; up 9.38% and equal to $4.41 
per share in comparison with $4.08 for 
1968. 

The Consolidated Statement of Earn- 
ings which appears on page 27 reflects 
a number of changes in reporting pro- 
cedures in conformity with new regula- 
tions issued by Federal supervisory 
agencies. For the first time commercial 
banks will be including in their operating 
expenses a provision for possible losses 
on loans as a cost of doing business. In 
our case, this provision was based on 
our loss experience during the past five 
years, as explained below, and amounted 
to $13.5 million for 1969. On a compar- 
able basis the 1968 charge would have 
been $10.1 million. The caption in the 
earnings statement, Income before Se- 
curities Profits or Losses, corresponds 
to Net Operating Earnings as formerly 
reported, reduced by the after-tax effect 
of this new charge. Had there been no 
change, earnings for 1969 would have 
been $136,347,000 or 9.3% more than 
the $124,789,000 reported for 1968. 

Total operating income of $958 million 
increased 26% during the year, com- 
pared with an increase of 20% in 1968. 
The major part of this increase, 87%, 
was in income from domestic loans as a 
result of an increase in average out- 
standings of 12% and an increase in 
average rate from 6.56% to 7.75%. 

Due to a 10% reduction in average 
security holdings, income from securities 
dropped about $3 million in spite of an 
increase in yield. On a fully taxable basis, 
the average return on U.S. Treasury se- 
curities was 5.79% in 1969 compared 
with 5.30%, and on state and municipal 
securities was 8.83% compared with 
8.19%. 

Other income of $130 million was $28 


24 


million higher than in 1968, principally 
because of higher trust and banking 
commission income and increased earn- 
ings of our overseas offices. Overseas 
earnings are included, net of the ex- 
penses of the overseas Offices. 

Of the total increase in operating ex- 
penses of $187 million, $144 million or 
77% was additional interest paid on de- 
posits and borrowed money. Although 
this was a substantial increase in ex- 
penses, it should be noted that avail- 
able funds were utilized to produce addi- 
tional interest income of $169 million. 
Provision for domestic staff payments 
increased $24 million or 15%. This was 
the added cost of the increased number 
of employees required to handle a con- 
stantly expanding banking organization 
together with necessary adjustments in 
the salaries of the existing staff. 


Loans 


During 1969 loans here and abroad aver- 
aged $12.3 billion, which was equivalent 
to 75% of average deposits. 

As indicated above, new regulations 
apply this year to the treatment of the 
provision for possible losses on loans. 
Under these regulations the Bank has 
had the option of charging against oper- 
ating earnings either its actual losses for 
the year or an amount determined by 
the loss experience for a five year period. 
We have chosen the latter method and 
have calculated the amount of the Pro- 
vision for Possible Losses on Loans by 
applying the ratio of net loan losses to 
average loans for the most recent five 
year period to the average loans out- 
standing during the current year. Under 
this procedure the amount we are setting 
aside from earnings each year will be in 
proportion to the size of the loan port- 
folio and will be reasonably stable in 
amount, since fluctuations in our loss 
experience from year to year will be lev- 
eled off by the averaging procedure. For 
1969 actual net losses were $11,443,000, 
although the charge to Operating Ex- 
penses under the above formula was 
$13,500,000. After taxes, the reduction 
in earnings was $5,767,000 or 21¢ per 
share. This reduces earnings as they 


would have been reported under our pre- 
vious practice by about 4.2%. 

The 1969 actual net loan losses after 
taxes were equal to 4/100ths of one per- 
cent of average loans; over the past 10 
years this figure has averaged 7/100ths 
of One percent. 


Investment Securities 


The size of the Bank’s investment port- 
folio was lower at year end than at the 
end of the previous year, and there have 
been some changes in the composition 
of the portfolio which have affected the 
average life of the security holdings. 

The average maturity of U.S. Treasury 
securities was shortened during the year 
from 45 months to 37 months. Of these 
securities, 23% mature within one year 
and 92% within five years. With respect 
to the state and municipal holdings, our 
policy has been to shorten the life of the 
longer-term portion of the portfolio, as 
evidenced by the fact that the average 
life of holdings over one year dropped 
during the year from 20 years and two 
months to 18 years and six months. How- 
ever, a substantial amount of short-term 
securities reached maturity or were sold 
during the same period, so that the aver- 
age life of the whole portfolio increased 
from 15¥2 years to 17 Y2 years. 

Net losses from sales of securities 
amounted to $11.2 million after taxes, 
about the same as in 1968. Reinvestment 
of the proceeds in higher yielding loans 
and securities has produced and will 
continue to produce increased operating 
earnings. 


Deposits 


At the year end, total deposits were at an 
all-time high of $19.1 billion. The aver- 
age deposits during 1969 were $1.7 bil- 
lion higher than in 1968, including a 6% 
increase in domestic demand deposits. 

The largest increase in average de- 
posits was in the overseas offices, where 
the average was $2.2 billion higher than 
in 1968. This reflects the continued rapid 
expansion of the activities of the Bank’s 
organization throughout the world, par- 
ticularly in those countries where there 
are extensive flows of U.S. dollar funds. 


ey 


’ 
: 


$5 $18 


$15 


$9 - 


$6 


$1 
$3 


i 3 pve 3 Ks : 
O as as: 0 ee ae Z 
69 1959 60 66 67 68 69 


$155 


$12+ 


$9 


4% = 
$6 
2% - 
$3 
0 ze : 0% Een e en ea Lee 
1959 1959 60 63.0: 64 S-165..71669 6 69 


FIRST NATIONAL CITY CORPORATION 
and Subsidiaries 


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CONDITION 


Assets December 31, 1969 
Cash-and Due from Banks -:........ 6.22. $ 4,872,753,000 
U.S. Treasury Secunities ...... 1... 2 2 1,302,850,000 
State and Municipal Securiiles ........0.5....2:..52.5.. 3... 1,118,966,000 
Other Securities... 2s 581,545,000 
LOANS 3 eS 13,240,365,000 
Federal Funds Sold. 222 ee 330,945,000 
Gustomers Acceptance Liabilily.... 3... 447,735,000 
Bank Premises and Equipment ...-........::.......... 2)... 218,352,000 
Other Assets... 978,383,000 
Total, 5053 $23,091 ,894,000 
Liabilities 
Demand Deposits in Domestic Offices ..........................2:. $ 7,972,938,000 
Time Deposits in Domestic Olfices -.. 2. 3. 3,411,816,000 
Deposits in Overseas Offices ............2.......... 4... 3: oo 7,757,209,000 
Total Deposits .. 0... 2. $19,141,963,000 
Federal Funds Purchased and Securities Sold 
Under Agreements to Repurchase .............................. 733,543,000 
Commercial Paper Outstanding........................25, 2.33... 323,924,000 
Other Funds Borrowed... 02. 6 ee 130,149,000 
Acceptances Outstanding. ......... 2.5543. 475,119,000 
Accrued Taxes and Other ExpenseS ... 5... 246,405,000 
Provision for Dividend Declared ........ 3... 233. 16,279,000 
Other Liabilities... 6 173,366,000 
Unearned INCOME |... oe ee a 109,136,000 


304,469,000 


Capital Accounts 


4% Convertible Capital Notes Due 1990 ............ $ 258,383,000 
Preferred: Stock (without: pan) 3. 2.6. se a $ _ 

Authorized but Unissued Shares: 

10,000,000 in 1969; 2,000,000 in 1968 
Gommon:stock ($13:50 par) see a ee tee 366,273,000 

Outstanding Shares: 27,131,315 in 1969; 26,934,453 in 1968 
SUPDIUS se esta coca eee Che en eae 543,152,000 
Undivided: Protits! so 0a5 5. cy ot ae ee ee 166,036,000 
Unallocated Reserve for Contingencies ............. 103,697,000 

$1,179,158,000 1,437,541 ,000 


$23,091 ,894,000 


26 


Explanatory notes are on pages 29-32 


$_ 265,921,000 


$ ae 


363,615,000 


468,991,000 
169,838,000 
128,050,000 


December 31, 1968 


$ 3,907,758,000 
1,323,145,000 
1,358,641 ,000 
432,571,000 
11,430,438,000 
113,400,000 
273,437,000 
176,664,000 
608,066,000 


$ 7,412,675,000 
4,675,402,000 
4,554,933,000 


$16,643,010,000 


470,047,000 
156,520,000 
279,347,000 
156,922,000 

14,814,000 
165,728,000 

75,397,000 


265,920,000 


1,396,415,000 


FIRST NATIONAL CITY CORPORATION 
and Subsidiaries 


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS 


Operating Income 


HprereSh OM LOGNS = 7.25. ee ee 
Interest and Dividends on Securities 
Be CASINY) a ee ca 
pecicle ca MUNICIDGL. 5 a ee 
BONO SCCUMINCS ie ee es 
ROO NNOOMC 6 ee ee ee 


Operating Expenses 


Provision for Staff Payments 
PRO OIANOS ee hs ee aes 
Bot OM anING a ee a Se 
BS ACIIMCIVIONU GN en oe eS eek 
E-OOGd! OCCU Taxes 45 oor Sn ee ee 
—Group Insurance, Hospital and Medical ........ te ee 


eet i OT DCDOSNS ee a 
‘ Interest Paid on Federal Funds Purchased and Securities 


Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase ...................05. ) 


Interest Paid on Other Borrowed Money ...............0 0c eee eee 
Deposit surance Assessment 2. 66 ee ee. 
Preses (NCU ee ea 
Provision tor Possible: Losses on Loans... 222. 2.5. oe oe: 
OIeREXOENSES 2 es a we 


Income before Taxes and Securities Profits or Losses .............. 
axes Based. On Operating. INCOMe = ees a ee 
INCOME BEFORE SECURITIES PROFITS ORLOSSES ...... 


Securities Profits or (Losses), After Taxes of ($15,035,000) and 
int o40 OOO) fESDECHVElY 26 a ee es 


MCG ONN ee es 


Earnings Per Share: 
On Average Common Shares Outstanding: 
Income before Securities Profits or Losses ...............0005 
NGEINCOINCy es ss 
Assuming Full Dilution: 
Income before Securities Profits or Losses ................... 
INET INCOMOz eee ee ek i ei es Ge ee he eos eee 


1969 
$700,265,000 


63,906,000 
48,155,000 
15,568,000 
130,086,000 


$957 ,980,000 


$154,092,000 
8,181,000 
9,341,000 
6,918,000 
3,131,000 


$181 ,663,000 
378,505,000 


69,650,000 
18,918,000 
3,497,000 
30,724,000 

~ 13,500,000 
80,568,000 


$777,025,000 


$180,955,000 
50,375,000 
$130,580,000 


(11,166,000) 
$119,414,000 


$4.83 
$4.41 


$4.36 
$4.00 


1968 


$528,590,000 


72,012,000 
46,110,000 
12,292,000 
101,643,000 


$760,647 ,000 


$131,000,000 
7,487,000 
12,422,000 
5,554,000 
1,663,000 


$158,126,000 


279,301,000 


29,165,000 
14,463,000 

3,806,000 
22,515,000 
10,100,000 
72,120,000 


$589,596,000 


$171,051 ,000 
50,576,000 


$120,475,000 


(11,221,000) 


$109,254 ,000 


$4.50 
$4.08 


$4.06 
$3.70 


CHANGES IN CONSOLIDATED CAPITAL ACCOUNTS 


Balance at Beginning of Year ............. 0... cece cee eens 


Additions 
BNI TAGORIG 9 ee eer ait as coeleae sacs ww san echt eos Get ot ewe cnlorene 
Issuance of Stock 
—Under Stock Option and Purchase Plans .................5.- 
PE PNOCHINSIL OMS sett icrevayan aaa eck soe sa an cla Sine as Spelsteneile eee ois 
Investment Securities Accretion, Prior Years, After Taxes .......... 
ROC AC OITION Gh a he ae co eee ke ae allen sr tase ass 


Deductions 
Cash Dividends Declared (Per Share: 1969 $2.30; 1968 $2.10) ...... 
Transferred to Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans ............. 
ACTA OUGTOMS here cree: eae Sing oasis ern cae ae eae 


een etind O1VGar ook ces Coes hee ee ced wewen cece ben 


1969 


$ 119,414,000 


4,162,000 
425,000 


263,000 


§_124,264,000 


$ 62,292,000 


17,188,000 
3,658,000 


$ 83,138,000 
$1,437,541 ,000 


Explanatory notes are on pages 29-32 


1968 


$ 109,254,000 


11,399,000 


2,240,000 
3,291,000 


$_ 126,184,000 


56,320,000 
17,455,000 
2,197,000 


$75,972,000 
$1,396,415,000 


Increase 
$171,675,000 


—8,106,000 
2,045,000 
3,276,000 

28,443,000 


$197,383,000 


$ 23,092,000 
694,000 
—3,081,000 
1,364,000 
1,468,000 


$ 23,537,000 


99,204,000 


40,485,000 
4,455,000 
—309,000 
8,209,000 
3,400,000 
8,448,000 


$187,429,000 


$ 9,904,000 
—201,000 


$ 10,105,000 


55,000 


$ 10,160,000 


PE 


FIRST NATIONAL CITY BANK 
and Subsidiaries 


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CONDITION 


Assets 


Gash and -Duetirom: Banks i. coe 
U.S easuny SCCUNIICS (8 nausea 
State and Municipal Securities =. lui ee 
Other Securities. 332 e e e 


Gustomers: Acceptance Liabllit.: 34.5... es a 
Bank Premises and EqUuIDMent .s 4.2.22. ee 
Other Assets: cee ee ey a ee 


Liabilities 
Demand Deposits:in Domestic Offices 225... 


Time: Deposits in Domestic Offices 4.52.2 
Deposits im Overseas Olfices .5 5.5... ee 


Total DepoOsiis:.: 3.22.62 


Federal Funds Purchased and Securities Sold 

Under Agreements to Repurchase......:.....5....::.00.5... 43. 
Other-Funds: Botrowed 3... 03.030 
Acceptances Outstanding .........:..5:5..5...52... 355-2 
Accrued Taxes and:-Other Expenses =...7...2:..5. 
Provision for Dividend Declared... ...0 3-23 


Capital Accounts 


Capital Stock($18.50 pan)... $ 363,279,000 
Outstanding Shares: 26,909,553 
SUIDIUG = fon aeccke tenes Gee ek 539,801,000 


Surplus Representing Convertible Capital Note 


Obligation Assumed by Parent Corporation ........ 258,383,000 
UNGIVIGCEEPIONIS: nti cae le ee ee 145,309,000 
Unallocated Reserve for Contingencies ............. 103,697,000 

Ota satce aise Siemans pees Ghd eek ee ee 


December 31, 1969 
§ 4,873,021 ,000 


1,302,850,000 
1,118,966,000 
581,545,000 


13,240,365,000 


99,945,000 
447,735,000 
218,352,000 


960,541,000 
$22,843,320,000 


$ 7,978,600,000 
3,412,216,000 
7,757,209,000 


$19,148,025,000 


829,818,000 
130,149,000 
475,119,000 
249,855,000 

16,400,000 
172,868,000 
106,148,000 


304,469,000 


1,410,469,000 
$22,843,320,000 


28 Explanatory notes are on pages 29-32 _ 


$ 363,279,000 


467,659,000 


265,921,000 
167,514,000 


128,050,000 


December 31, 1968 
$ 3,907,758,000 


1,320,164,000 
1,358,641 ,000 
432,571,000 


11,430,438,000 


113,400,000 
273,437,000 
176,664,000 


608,062,000 
$19,621,135,000 


$ 7,412,912,000 


4,675,402,000 


4,554,933,000 
$16,643,247,000 


470,047,000 
156,520,000 
279,347,000 
157,599,000 

14,907,000 
165,728,000 

75,397,000 


265,920,000 


1,392,423,000 


NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


1. Basis of Presentation 


The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of certain majority-owned subsidi- 
aries; those not included are not significant in the aggregate. 

Figures of overseas offices are as of December 20, and are converted at rates of exchange 
current on that date. Net earnings of overseas offices which are remittable to the United States 
are included in Other Income in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. 

The financial statements are prepared in conformity with regulations issued by Federal super- 
visory agencies, as revised in 1969. Such revisions principally require that a Provision for Possible 
Losses on Loans be included in Operating Expenses and that the amount of Net Income be 
designated. The financial statements for 1968 have been restated to give retroactive effect to 
these changes. 

The Consolidated Statement of Earnings includes provisions for deferred taxes of approxi- 
mately $32,000,000 in 1969 ($27,000,000 in 1968) which result principally from recognition of 
certain items as income and expense in the financial statements in different years than for tax 
purposes. 


2. Assets 


Investment securities are carried at cost, adjusted for amortization of premium and accretion 
of discount. Trading securities are carried at market. 

At December 31, 1969, the market value of the securities portfolio is approximately 
$2,625,000,000 and the book value is $3,003,361 ,000. 

U.S. Treasury securities carried at $1,031,912,000, State and Municipal securities carried at 
$312,397,000 and other assets carried at $602,836,000 on December 31, 1969, are pledged to 
secure public and trust deposits and for other purposes. 

Bank premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Operating 
expenses in 1969 include $10,419,000 for depreciation and $20,439,000 for rental cost of 
premises and equipment leased generally at terms not in excess of thirty years. 


3. Retirement Plans 


There are a number of pension plans covering substantially all employees. Past service and 
current service costs of the domestic plan are accrued and fully funded. 


4. Convertible Capital Notes 


The 4% Convertible Capital Notes Due 1990 are convertible into Common Stock of the Cor- 
poration at a conversion price of $66% per share, subject to adjustment in certain events. The 
Notes, which are subordinated to obligations to depositors and other creditors, are redeemable 
on or after July 1, 1970, at the option of the Corporation, in whole or in part, at their principal 
amount plus accrued interest and a premium initially of 3.05%, declining annually thereafter, 
and without premium on or after July 1, 1986. The Corporation is jointly and severally liable 
with the Bank for payment of principal and interest on the Notes. As between the Corporation 
and the Bank, the Corporation has assumed primary liability for all such payments, and has 


29 


NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 


agreed to reimburse the Bank if for any reason it should be required to make payment thereon. 
Interest on the Notes in 1969 of $10,359,000 is included in Interest Paid on Other Borrowed 
Money. 


5. Common Stock of the Corporation 


At December 31, 1969, authorized Common Stock of the Corporation is 50,000,000 shares 
(40,000,000 shares at December 31, 1968) and 5,876,488 shares are reserved for issuance In 
connection with conversion of the Capital Notes and sales under the Stock Option and Stock 
Purchase Plans described below. 

Under the Stock Option Plan for key personnel, options have been granted for terms up to 
ten years at not less than the fair market value of the shares at the dates of grant, and are 
exercisable cumulatively in equal annual instalments. Since the beginning of the Plan, 338,471 
shares have been purchased. Changes in options outstanding during 1969 are as follows: 


Shares Approximate 
Under Option Price Range Per Share 

Outstanding at beginning of year 671,342 $49 to $62 

Granted during year 345,142 $62 to $70 

Exercised during year 77,934 $49 to $62 

Expired during year 39,931 $49 to $70 
Outstanding at end of year (278,565 shares 

exercisable at December 31, 1969) 898,619 $49 to $70 


At the end of 1969, an additional 168,258 shares are available for future options (500,000 
shares at the end of 1968). 

Participants in the Stock Purchase Plan have purchased since the beginning of the Plan 
66,136 shares at the fair market value of the shares at the dates of grant. At the beginning of 
1969, there were outstanding rights to purchase 95,084 shares at $80 per share by agreements 
entered into in 1968. Under these agreements, rights to purchase 19,374 shares expired. At the 
end of 1969, rights to purchase 75,710 shares are outstanding and 858,154 shares are available 
for future agreements (838,780 shares at the end of 1968). 

In 1969, ownership of a subsidiary was acquired through the issuance of 5,862 shares. 


6. Capital Stock of the Bank 


At respective year ends, authorized Capital Stock of the Bank amounted to 35,000,000 shares. 
The Capital Notes indenture prohibits the payment of dividends (other than stock dividends) or 
the purchase of outstanding Capital Stock in amounts which would reduce the total of the Bank’s 
consolidated Capital, Surplus and Undivided Profits below $800,000,000. 


7. Surplus 


Surplus of the Corporation increased $3,110,000 in 1969 ($8,380,000 in 1968) from sales 
under the Stock Option and Stock Purchase Plans, $6,012,000 in 1969 ($306,000 in 1968) as a 
result of conversion of Capital Notes and $346,000 in 1969 from acquisition of a subsidiary. In 
1969, Surplus was increased $64,694,000 by transferring $44,000,000 from Undivided Profits 
and $20,694,000 from Unallocated Reserve for Contingencies. 


30 


NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 


8. Unallocated Reserve for Contingencies 
Changes in the reserve are shown in the table below: 


1969 1968 
Balance at Beginning of Year ............ $128,050,000 $127,187,000 
Deductions 
a@ransferred to Surplus ©. ..202.5........ $ 20,694,000 $ a 
Transferred to Undivided Profits ......... 3,716,000 2,015,000 
Other Deductions 2.0.26. ce oe — 1,609,000 
$ 24,410,000 $ 3,624,000 
Additions 
Transferred from Undivided Profits ....... $ — $ 1,315,000 
Wier Additions 36. oe oer. 57,000 3,172,000 
$ 57,000 $ 4,487,000 


Balance at End of Year ................. $103,697,000 $128,050,000 


9. Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans 
Recognized loan losses are charged to the reserve and subsequent recoveries are added. 
Changes in the reserve are shown in the table below: 


1969 1968 
Balance at Beginning of Year ............ $265,920,000 $229,576,000 
Deductions 
WOdn LOSSES 4 ee $ 16,781,000 $ 18,919,000 
Additions 
EOanRECOVENES ..6 5 2 is ois wi $ 5,338,000 $ 10,252,000 
Provision for Possible Losses on Loans 
per Governmental Regulations 
Charged to Operating Expenses ..... 13,500,000 10,100,000 
Charged to Undivided 
Profits tes $17,188,000 $17,455,000 
Tax Reduction .... 19,066,000 36,254,000 17,456,000 34,911,000 
WihenAdditions: Skee ee ees 238,000 _ 
$ 55,330,000 $ 55,263,000 
Balance at End of Year 2... ..........3.. $304,469,000 $265,920,000 


Beginning in 1969, the Provision for Possible Losses on Loans charged to Operating Ex- 
penses is computed by applying to average total loans for the current year the ratio of net loan 
losses to average total loans for the most recent five year period. For comparability, 1968 figures 
have been restated to give retroactive effect to this change. 


31 


NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 


10. Earnings Per Share 


Per share amounts Assuming Full Dilution are based on the assumption of conversion of all 
outstanding Capital Notes and elimination of interest paid on the Notes, after taxes. 


AUDITORS’ REPORT 


The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Of First National City Corporation: 


We have examined the consolidated statement of condition of First National City 
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1969, the related statements of 
earnings and changes in capital accounts for the year then ended, and the consoli- 
dated statement of condition of its wholly-owned subsidiary, First National City Bank 
and subsidiaries, as of December 31, 1969. Our examination was made in accordance 
with generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests of 
the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered neces- 
sary in the circumstances. 

In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly the financial position of First 
National City Corporation and subsidiaries at December 31, 1969, and the results of 
their operations and changes in capital accounts for the year then ended and the 
financial position of First National City Bank and subsidiaries at December 31, 1969, 
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis con- 
sistent with that of the preceding year as restated. 


fut, Plauwik, Wikdll elo. 
a Zo 
New York, New York 


January 21, 1970 Certified Public Accountants 


32 


006'Z1 
86r7'92 
98'7 
6v'S 
69°¢ 
WEV'V 


c8l 
gol $ 


O0r'st 
86792 
02'S 
879 
LL 
%V8'V 


(0ZS'91) 
sol $ 


00S'61 
86r'92 
VLG 
9€°9 
LO’ 
%99'7 


(Z29'9) 
OEE $ 


008'61 
Z09'92 
61'S 
c& 9 
eee 
WEBV 


(96S‘€) 
Egk oS 


00202 
Z09'92 
LoS 
veg 
LVe 


008'02 
L19'92 
ees 
Leg 
LLE 


%C0OG %WLIS 


(8r7S' 1) 


eri = $ 


voc 
6S1 


SOGBL U! OANDAHE H/AS YOO}S | -10J-Z PUB ‘P9SL YBNOIY} OYEL U! SPUAPIAIP YOO}S %z JOJ JUBUISN[Pe JAY * 
696 10) sluawasinbes Busyodeas MAU AY} YM Apjiqesedwod Jo} pajuawejddns uaaq avey payiodas Ajsnojaaid se sBulusez Buljesedo J8N 8961 7 


pouad seak anf }UB0aJ JSOW AY} JOJ SUBO| /2]0] aBeJAAe O} SASSO] UBO] JEU JO O}}EJ 
ay] JAK JUALIN BY} JOY SUBO| J2}0} aBeIaAe 0} BulAjdde Aq pajndwod -,,SaSSOT] JO SIJOJd SOlJJINIAS 94Ojaq @WOIU],, Je BulAlue ul pajonpeg # 


6607S Seon  O/0e Ge L0G) S$ 2166 3S 716. S OLS ES FOE LAS 


i A LN eS TC Se Da aE NC SP EEE 


66. $ ses $ 948 $ 206 $ LEE $ PLE §$ 


Gl0€ 


eG le 


90°€& 


gg2 $ O8¢c $ Glee $ 


LOVE 


ec SE 


c9 9E 


Gl “$7-60'¢' -$ 9c: SG cSe |S vee S$ 


Fee 8 ne 


(176'6) 


296 L9$ 


IgZ'9 $ 


688 
VSS 
O19 
8cl'v $ 


98L'7 
Z€S 
gse'l $ 
90r'8 $ 


6S61 


(g99‘2) 


260 vL$ 


L689 $ 
LEO'l 
LLY 

0S9 
gel 7 $ 


9967 
LLY 
gle l $ 


L€6'8 $ 


0961 


GLI vk 


L98°cl$ 


wie LS 
€90'} 
269 

v6L 
€9l'b $ 


Gre'v 
98S 
ElL't $ 


9S1'6 $ 


LOGL 


(922'2) 


80l'rZ$ 


ecl' $ 
6LL'L 
092 
970'1 
sol'y $ 


ESo'7 
GEL 
L29'l $ 
OLs'01$ 


é96L 


€€6 7 


Zv6'9l$ v6L'98$ 
rises $ L126 $ 


Ges‘ | vel 
880'| 0S9'l 
782 | L8€'L 
Lo6'y $ 90'S $ 
g8E'S v8c'9 
268 8l0'L 
Ovv'l $ QEE'l $ 
LVG'LIS LLO'SLS 
€96L p96L 


(626) 


OOL'Z2 000'r2 006'92 00z‘0¢ 006‘Ee 
ov9'9z  6r9'9Z GOL'92 ve6'9z LeL‘Z?2 
ees BLS 66'S 9¢°9 GLL 
Zo 9 169 v0'L 618 688 
LEE Ser Loy oes 61'S 
%9ZS %PyL'S %18'S %8G'9 %GOL 
(trr's) (SS0'9) (Z6L'r) (Le9'r) (g90's)) 
€° 601 $ -66l © $06 1.9. 299c -.$ yOe 8 
ove'l $ g6e'l $ Berl $ 
992 992 992 99z 6SZ 
vOO'L $ “1P0' S$: O80 S$ OGL Ss 64L 1S 
LO LE GO'6E vy Ov 16 \Y Ore 
09° | 08" | 00°2 022 Ov'2 
09'1 GL 06’ OZ oe'Z 
— = — V80'r lyr 
— _ _ vos esr 
icy S$ 307 —S.-— $ 
= =. = VvSz'60l$ rir 6lls 
ose (zer's) (1S¢'S) (Lzz' tb) (99L'EL) 
& — = VGSLv'0Zl$ O8S‘OEl$ 
- — = vle'r LOL'S 
6ZL'66$ O68'VOI$ QSL'ZILIS 68L'P2l$ — $ 
Zpe LIS SLB'LL $ SZO'SL $ ErZ'vl $ OOO $ 
99¢'z ZL9'2 €02'S 910'r €8l‘9 
Gre'z 979'Z L962 soz‘ v0r'z 
Zes't Z8r' | 6LY'L 92h‘ l gle'l 
666'r $ 6LO'S $ g9er'S $ 9609 $ Gero §$ 
ggg‘ L G69'8 LSL‘6 Lev'0l VR 
860'l L60'L L02'k ZSz'l 902'1 
8671. $07 1 3S. leek. $ ses i <S$ -Zcll-$ 
O9l'vl$ SOS $ LZ2Z'LL$ vc9'6l $ cé0'E? $ 
S961 9961 L961 48961 46961 


saleipisqns ue UONJelOdsoD AjID jeuoljeN ISsl4 + 


pe. wave a lellenseKkere: 8: 8i:s ie) ip) ie) elm is, with pue Jeok ye ‘yeis 
x (Spuesnoy) puse sea ye ‘Hulpuejys}no seieys 


Gea (Plog Spun ‘pe ‘|ou!) suzOT 
ste 555* gonunoes jedioiunj| pue eyejs 
© 09,8 6. 6 6.6 Oe ae ee saljundas Ainseod aly 
COATS Meee ** suBO] PUe SAl}UNDES |e}]O] 
(S@DI}}O O1jSewWOg Ul) siseq juajeAinbe 
giqexe} A\|nj ‘sayey Buruseq ebesoay 
SEC aCUnC a Ve aCe Cee elm eA (spuesnou|) sexel JOY 
‘SOLIQAODOY 10 (SASSO) ULOT JON JeNjoV 
Sela sie raile) O5aL.e: 8 6: 8). 8 a) aw (SUOI||I|\) pua Jeok ye 
‘sue07] UO SASSO" 8/qISSOd 10) 8AJOSaY 


Poateisdaia callctietenewemuets epletrneieat ater te ersisie elo] 


Bieiis, sile)efal es” elletisne i . SO]ON jeyidea a|qieAuoD 
salouebHuljuoyD JO} SAJOSey peyeoo|/eus pue 
‘SUO1d PaeplAlpun ‘sniding ‘yoo0}S UOWWOD 
(SUOI||I[) DUS 1edA Je ‘syuNodoy jeyIdeD 
Hulpuejs}no saseys pua-se9e( UO ‘so1nuabuljuog 
JO} QAIBOSAOY payeoo jeu pue S}IJOld 
peplaAipun ‘sniding ‘y90}g uoWWOD 
en pusd Jeoh ye ‘ayey puaepiaig jenuuy 
Seal Porat okeacene at pasejoeq spuepiaiq yse9 
Bulpuejsino sareys ebeiere UO ‘QWODU| JON 
iste a BHulpuejs}no soieys aHe1aAe uo ‘sesso] 
10 S}O1d S9IJINDVS 310j9q BWODU] 
CePteeite) 0) e814) .e) Wee ye) ale es Lieu. Bulpuejs}no soieyus 
abesare uo ‘Shulusey HulyesedO JON 
4 2418S 18d 
A Soe EE SEENON chee Onna Ch Os ENE QWODU] JON 


"+++ goxe| Jal ‘(S8SSO7) JO SHJO1g SEI}UNDES 
‘*$9S$SO7] JO S}IJO1d S8ILINDAS a10Joq BWODU| 


DY Og, 6,16) .82(e) 1O>/@ Le, PKS (6:18) Ug eS #sSexe| JOYV ‘sueOo7 
UO S8SSO7] B|GISSOd JO} UOISIADId 
ea AC (spuesnou|) s6uluseg BHulyesedo JON 


awl] 1810 
axe) 0 6).\6/'e: (alsa 1a) B6 sBulaes 
Se OOS "*** pNUBWEG ‘:S8DIJO DISeLWOG U| 
(SUO}||I\j) SHSOdeqg ebessAy 
©, Od: BO 40) 661.0) -8 Le (pjos spun ‘ped "jOul) sueo7 
NC ior seljunoss jedioiunyy pue aje1s 
gre: bd aes <0) make Vel le aww SOl}IINDBS Ainsead | Kovay 
(SUOI||I[\) SJessy eHessAy 


eeu ** (SUOII||)) PUES JedX Je ‘sJessy [2}0) 


HIMOHD AO SYVAA NAL 


33 


34 


THE POLICY COMMITTEE 


Rg ae Si 
Bernard T. Stott, Comptrol/ier G.A. Costanzo, Executive Vice President Thomas C. Theobald, 
Senior Vice President 


Walter B. Wriston, President 


ae F 
President and Economist 


Leif H. Olsen, Senior Vice George S. Moore, Chairman 


Carl W. Desch, Senior Vice President and Cashier 


4 


q 


fie) 


Robert W. Feagles, Senior Vice President 


Richard S. Perkins, Chmn. of the Exec. Committee 


Robert L. Hoguet, Exec. Vice Pres. and Vice Chmn., 
Trust Board (Ret.12/31/69) 


Edward L. Palmer, Executive Vice President William |. Spencer, Executive Vice President Thomas F. Creamer, Executive Vice President 


35 


London Board Meetings. Goldsmith's 
Hall in London was the scene of a formal 
reception and dinner on May 28 honor- 
ing prominent Citibank customers and 
citizens of the United Kingdom. The din- 
ner was held in connection with the first 
meeting ever held by the Board of Direc- 
tors and Trust Board in a foreign country. 
Only one other time have the Boards met 
outside the U.S. mainland. They con- 
vened in San Juan in the spring of 1968 
to mark the Bank’s 50th anniversary in 
Puerto Rico. 


PR 505 Printed in U.S.A. 


DIRECTORS AND TRUST BOARD 


(as of December 31, 1969) 


The Right Honorable Lord Aldingtont 
PC: K.G:M.G. °C: Bie. D.S.0. 
Chairman, National and 

Grindlays Bank Limited 


George F. Baker, Jr.* 
Trustee, George F. Baker Trust 


Frank E. Barnett* 

Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer, 

Union Pacific Corporation and 
Union Pacific Railroad Company 


Dana T. Bartholomew* 
Executive Vice President, Finance, 
Alcan Aluminium Limited 


William M. BattentA 
Chairman, J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 


Charles M. BrinckerhofftA 
Chairman of the Executive Committee, 
The Anaconda Company 


William H. Chisholm* 
Executive Vice President, 
Ethyl Corporation 


Percy Chubb, 2ndA 
Chairman, The Chubb Corporation 


Freeman J. Daniels* 
Perkins, Daniels & McCormack 


John D. deButtsA 

Vice Chairman, 

American Telephone and Telegraph 
Company 


Carl W. DeschA 
Senior Vice President and Cashier 


Fredrick M. EatontA 
Shearman & Sterling 


Richard M. Furlaud* 
President, Squibb Beech-Nut, Inc. 


Hon. Louis P. Gélinas* 
Consultant, Geoffrion, Robert & 
Gélinas, Inc. 


J. Peter GracetA 
President, W. R. Grace & Co. 


Gordon GrandA 
President, Olin Corporation 


Joseph A. GraziertA 

Chairman of the Executive and 
Finance Committee, 

American Standard Inc. 


William C. Greenough* 

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, 
Teachers Insurance and 

Annuity Association of America and 
College Retirement Equities Fund 


William P. GwinntA 
Chairman, 
United Aircraft Corporation 


Michael L. HaidertA 
Former Chairman 
Standard Oil Company (New Jersey) 


Amory Houghton* 
Honorary Chairman of the Board, 
Corning Glass Works 


’ Amory Houghton, Jr.tA 


Chairman of the Board, 
Corning Glass Works 


George P. JenkinsA 

Vice Chairman of the Board and 
Chairman of the Finance Committee, 
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company 


John R. KimberlytA 
Chairman of the Board, 
Kimberly-Clark Corporation 


J. Howard Laeri* 
Vice Chairman 


Charles B. McCoytA 
President, 
E. |. du Pont de Nemours & Company 


Gordon M. MetcalfA 
Chairman of the Board, 
Sears, Roebuck and Co. 


Roger MillikentA 
President, Deering Milliken, Inc. 


George S. MooretA* 
Chairman 


Charles G. MortimertA 
Chairman of the Executive Committee, 
General Foods Corporation 


Robert S. OelmantA 
Chairman, 
The National Cash Register Company 


William F. Oliver* 
President, American Sugar Company 


Richard S. PerkinstA* 
Chairman of the Executive Committee 


James S. RockefellertA 
Former Chairman 


Chas. H. Sommer* 
Chairman of the Board, 
Monsanto Company 


Hulbert W. Tripp* 

Vice President for Finance, 
Trustee and Chairman 

of the Investment Committee, 
The University of Rochester 


Thomas R. Wilcox* 
Vice Chairman 


Albert L. WilliamsA 

Chairman of the Executive Committee, 
International Business Machines 
Corporation 


Joseph C. WilsontA 
Chairman of the Board, 
Xerox Corporation 


Robert Winthrop* 
Honorary Chairman, 
Wood, Struthers & Winthrop Inc. 


M. Cabell Woodward, Jr.* 
President, 
ITT Continental Baking Company, Inc. 


Walter B. WristontA* 
President 


+ Director FNCC 
ADirector FNCB 
*Member Trust Board 


‘ 


