DOCUMENT RESUME 


ED 226 255 CE 035 257 
TITLE Business Issues in an Aging America. A Report from. 
The Travelers Insurance Companies Conference, 
Managing an Aging Workforce (New York, NY, February 


1982). 
INSTITUTION Travelers Insurance Companies, Hartford, CT. 
PUB DATE 82 
NOTE 25p. 
PUB TYPE Collected Works - Conference Proceedings (021) -- 


Viewpoints (120) 


EDRS PRICE MFO1/PCOl Plus Postage. 

DESCRIPTORS Adult Development; *Aging (Individuals); Business; 
Demography; Employer Employee Relationship; 
*Employment Practices; Gerontology; *Individual 
Characteristics; Intelligence; Job Performance; 
*Labor Force; *Older Adults; *Personnel Management; 
Persorsci Policy; Retirement 


ABSTRACT 

This report consists of excerpts from nine papers 
presented at a conference on managing an aging workforce. The first 
excerpt deals with the nature and impact of age-related changes. 
Discussed next is the need to better identify the changes that come 
with age and to develop improved methods to assess human capability 
without respect to age. The effects of aging on behavior, 
intelligence, job performance, and performance appraisals are 
examined in three presentations. Outlined next are the benefits to be 
derived from retaining and promoting older workers. The focus of the 
next report is on the necessity for shaping new personnel practices 
for managing an aging workforce. In an article on the importance of 
fit between people and jobs, evidence is cited to support policies 
providing for flexibility in the age at which retirement takes place 
as well as for flexibility in the process by which retirement takes 
place. Described in the final section of the report are the efforts 
of the Travelers Insurance Companies to meet the needs of older 
workers. (MN) 


RREKKKAAKAEKEKKEREKERKRRERKKEERKERKKEKEKEEKKKEKKEKEEKKEAEKKEKRKERKEKRKEEKRKKKEKERR 


* Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made * 
* 


from the original document. * 
RARER ETEERREEEEARERREKEKERKEEKRKEKREKRKEKERRRKEKEREEEEKKKRKAKERRRREEER 


DD 


BUSINESS 
ISSUES 
INAN AGING 
AMERICA 


A report 


from 
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION The Travelers 
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION “PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE THIS 


EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES INFORMATION 


ENTER (ERIC MATERIAL HAS BEEN GRANTED BY — 
C (ERIC : 
/ Ths document has been reproduced as ‘om nine 


recervved from the person of organmzaton 


a conference, 
sees nN nail have been made to mmprove ! Managing 


| . 
¢ an Aging 
@ Pomts of wew or opiuons stated in tus docu TO THE EDUCATION RESOURCES 


ment do not necessanly represent offic! NIE 


came INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC).” Workforce 


reproduction quality 


my 


Bes 


e | 


Introduction 


ging is a fact of life, but one we Americans have for 
the most part tried to ignore. America’s rapid 
shift toward an older population, however — the so- 
called “graying of America” — is forcing us to pay 
attention. 

For American business, and for corporate per- 
sonnel executives, the imminent growth in our nation’s 
population over age 55 is particularly significant. The 
experts predict that as Americans have fewer children, 
growth in the nation’s labor force will decline in coming 
years. This trend, combined with an increase in the 
proportion of older workers, means that business may 
need to reappraise its policies and practices conceming 
older workers. In the years ahead, greater participation 
in the labor force by older people who want and need 
to work could have great impact on our natioi 1's pro- 
ductivity and business growth. 

In addition, how we resolve current reiirement 
income issues — Social Security in particular — will 
have great impact on business: on costs, employee 
benefit plans, morale and productivity. So business 
leaders and managers have every reason to be con- 
cemed about aging in America and its impact on the 
work force. 

America’s ac'ing workforce was the subject of a 
conference held in New York in February, 1982, under 
the sponsorship of Tie Travelers Insurance Companies. 
Eight expert speakers — from corporations, universi- 
ties, voluntary organizations, and government — 
focused on the myths and realities of aging and on the 
problems businesses must solve as the age profile of 
the population changes over the next 25 years. 

We at The Travelers, were aging issues are an 
area of special concem and effort, have prepared this 
report to stimulate your own thinking. How does aging 
affect us, from our cells to our psyches? And how can 
we use current knowledge about aging to shape sensi- 
ble personnel policies in the 1980s and beyond? 

At present in Amvrica, we don’t know the 
answers tc all o, even most, questions about aging 
and work. We hope this report will lead to new efforts to 
develop answers an.‘ programs which will helm Ameri- 
can business shape «5, own future with intelligence 
and foresight. 


Ahr t W, Fang hea 


Robert W. Feagle:s 

Senior Vice President 

The Travelers ~orporation 
Hartfora, Connecticut 
1982 


Excerpts froma 
conference 
held February 1982 
on the wmplications 
for business of 
an aging workforce. 


..- What is aging) — and why is the older 
population growing? 


i t might be more useful to start talking about what 
aging isn't rather than what aging is — because there 
are many myths about aging. 

One of the myths is that old is sick. We have this 
view in our minds of old people as irreversibly ill, irre- 
trievable human beings, sitting in the corner of a nurs- 
ing home in a rocking chair. But that's wrong, of course. 
Sir Ferguson Anderson, a Scottish geriatrician, is given 
credit for first saying that sick old people are sick 
because they are sick, not because they are old. The fact 
is that old is not sick. Over 95 percent of old people 
don't live in nursing homes. The proportion of individu- 
als who have not seen a doctor in two years is 13 per- 
cent between ages 25 and 50; | 1 percent between ages 
50 and 65, and 13 percent between ages 65 and 74. 

The number of people that are really fit doesn’t 
change that much with age. The number of times peo- 
ple go to the Goctor doesn’t change that much with 
age. But the death rate, of course, is twice as great at 
age 60 than at age 50, and at 65, it is three times 
greater than at age 50. Even so, the death rate at age 65 
is only two and a half percent. The life expectancy of a 
woman in New York City — a 65-year old American 
woman today — is 18 more years. 

Does old mean senile? No. A major loss of men- 
tal function — a loss to the point of impairing function 
— is not an inevitable change that we see with age. 

Is old frail? Not really. There are more frail old 
people than young people. But between ages 65 and 
75, only 10 to 15 percent of the population report them- 
selves as being in fair or poor health. And old isn't 
sexless. 

So there are many things that old isn’t. But what 
is it? Well, to begin with, old is different from young. 

Most people reach a peak in early adult life and 
then decline graduaily thereafter. There is no pleasant 
plateau of the middie years when you stay in your prime 
to age 50 or 55 and then suddenly start to decline. 

The second imporiar}t point is that there is a fair 
amount cf linearity in these changes. This means that 
old people aren't aging any faster than young people -— 
they've just done more oi ii. They’ve lost function; they 
have less reserve. 

Another important point is that there is a fair 
amount of variability in the rate of aging between var- 
ious organs —- the heart, the kidney, and the lung. 
¥.< don't understand that, and we reaiiy don’t have a 


‘unctional age criterion. We can’t look at a man and say, 
“He’s an old 50.” His birthday isn't really telling us his 
bioiogical age. 

Now, what is the impact of these aqe-rciated 
physiological changes? Let us take the case of the func- 
tion that changes the most with age: breathing. By 
age 80, breathing capacity is about 50 percent of that at 
age 50. But we all know that one can remove a lung in 
a young man without adverse effects. So the 80 year old 
man with 50 percent of his original lung function is 
fine for everyday life. He’s simply at c:eater risk, if he 
gets sick with pneumonia or a lung ‘afection, than a 30 
year old because he has less rese: ve. The elderly are 
thus vulnerable for a greate: «ss of health, and perhaps 
for death, given any disease that is superimposed upon 
their normal aging changes. But aging by itself does not 
importantly influence physiological function under 
normal conditions. 

What is aging, then? What causes this inevitable, 
irreversible change? One of the important answers is 
that it is clearly genetic. It can’t be anything but genetic. 
There is something genetic in a mouse or a shrew or a 
human that programs life expectancy. There are no 
humans that live as long as Galapagos turtles, and no 
mice that live as ong as humans. The real question 
in the biology o! aging is, “How is that genetic informa- 
tion translated? What are the mechanisms of the aging 
process?” 


Share of the Population 


Mee Persons Age 15-24 
Gl Persons Age 65 + 


Percent 
8.0 
nd 
16.04 
15.0- 
14.0. 
13.0, 
12.04 
13.9.) 


18.0} 
17.03 


16.04 


15.0. 

14.0. 

13.04 : 

12.04 

11.0. 4 


1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 


2030 


Dr. John W 
Rowe, 

Director, Division 
on Aging, The 
Harvard Medical 


There are five current theories about how this 
genetic program is translated into aging, and the theo- 
ries work their way from the inside of the cell to the 
outside. But the fact is that nobody now knows precisely 
what Causes aging. 

One thing we do know is that previously un- 
imagined numbers of people are living to be very old. 
The demographic changes are very dramatic — the 
equivalent of a social revolution. America is becoming a 
gerontocracy. The rapidly growing elderly pe \ulation 
already controls much of the resources in this country. 

Why are there suddenly so many old people? 
Life expectancy in this country has increased by 27 
years since 1900. Of all the human beings in the history 
of mar::.ind who ever have lived to be 65 or older, over 
half are alive today. So it is clear that more people are 
living out their normai life span. 

We have increased 
mean life expectancy, but 
there has been little change 
in maximum) human: life 
expectancy. We have iin- 

. proved health care in many 
very basic ways. So there 
has been a progressive 
change in the survival 
curves. 

Certainly we have 
come a long way in the 
United States over the last 

40 years. We have made up 80 percent of the theo- 
retically possible increase of life expectancy. 

Three categories of deaths can be seen ina 
human population. 

Number one is very early deaths — a little blip of 
jJeaths among young people; then comes a second 
group of deaths occurring in midd'’2 age. And finally, 
there is a large group of senescent deaths. Now, in the 
United States we have remarkably decreased early 
deaths and middle-aged deaths — deaths in the first 
two groups. And we are succeeding in pushing the 
entire population into the sene.~ent death category. 
od 


Life Expectancy 


A: our nation’s population ages, | wou!d stress that 
we have a great need for three things. 
First, we need new knowledge and research. 
Second, we need to do a better job of identifying 
not only the negative chenges that come with age, 
but the positive changes also. More interventions are 
being developed which Issen the negative impact 
of aging: social interventions, drugs, even prosthetic 
devices which can help make up for pirysical or behav- 
ioral deficits that affect people as they grow older. 
Third, we need extraordinarily sophisticated and 
sensitive methods of assessing human capability with- 
out respect to age. 
Statistics indicate that we can expect a labor 
shortage within a few years. There also may be less 


demanding jobs available and new forms of shared 
employment. Raising mandatory retirement age to 70, 
or the Social Security age to 68, will solve little unless 
we Can find ways to use the abilities of our older 
workers. 

We must proinote job capability as well as job 
availability. Row? By helping people maintain and 


Females at Aqe 65 

Males at Age 65 
Ga Females at Birth 
Ge Malesat Birth 


1950 1960 


Dr. Robert NN. 
Butler, 

Director, The 
National Institute 
on Aging, National 
Institutes of 
Health, 
Washington, D.C.: 


improve their capacities. For example: coordination, 
if you are a muscle worker; intellectual functioning, if 
you're a head worker. This means advancing the field of 
gerontoloqy. 

One of the most frightening things about aging 
— to all of us, including employers and personnel 
officers — is the possible onset of memory impairment 
or what the public calls senility. This obviously can 
have a profound effect upon a worker. We need a 
national effort directed to understanding better the 
underlying causes of senility — and I’m happy to report 
that we're close to some significant progress in this 


Death Rates 
for the 
Population 
65 Years 
and Older 


field. There are now — really for the first time in years — 
substantive, criticai theories and findings, which give 

us hope that we're reaching some understanding of 
senility. 

Also important to industry is the increasingly 
sophisticated efioit te ;:1omote good health and to pre- 
vent disease. Both the previous and the present Adminis- 
trations, through the Department of Health and Human 
Services, have been devoting efforts to health promo- 
tion and disease prevention. And this effort must not be 
thought of as pertinent only to younger people. There 
is no point in the life cycle where we can’t introduce 

important behavioral and 
medical efforts to promote 
health and prevent disease. 

Today new data, 
new methods — ard new 
sample populations who 
are healthier and more vig- 
orous and . ot compl cated 
by an array of diseases — 
are providing us with rici: 
information that helps 
counter many old 
stereotypes. 

As we address the 
extraordinary fact of this 
century, the fact of old age, 
| think we can afford to be 
optimistic. People once 
thought that this field was 
somehow an abysmal 
one — like economics, a 
dismal science. But geron- 
tology, | submit, is a very 
positive, hopeful science — 
and one that will do much 
to help all of us: in America 
as a whole, and in corporate 
America particularly. 
ad 


Deaths per WM Age 75-84 

Thousand GE _.. 55 and Over 

People MB Ace 65-74 

120; 

110, 

100 4 
90 4 
80 ; 
704 
60 ; 
503 


How does aging affect behavior — 
especially intelligence? 


t n the last two or three decades, we've had a revolu- 
tion in our thinking about the way intellectual ner- 
formance and behavior change as people get older. 

It used to be thought that, in fact, cognitive and 
intellectual changes paralleled physical changes. It 
was thought that individuals were at their peak when 
they were in their thirties, and that afterwards, mental 
function began to deteriorate. Research during the past 
two decades, however, has clearly indicated that this 
isn't the case. 

But this concept of steep declines after age 30 or 
40 is very well-entrenched. Why? There are several 
possible explanations. 

First. there are indeed numerous biological 
changes with age. Since these Diological changes are 
evident from the thirties on, it may have seemed rea- 
sonable to people to assume that intellectual changes 
corresponded to the biological changes. 

Second, there are changes in speed of response 
which begin much earlier in the life span, before the 
sixties. It's very clear that as people get older, they get 
slower. But what | should emphasize is that although 
they slow down a bit, most people still perform accu- 
rately. It just takes them a little longer to perform accu- 
rately — and the differences are in hundreds of 
milliseconds. Now, hundreds of milliseconds may make 
a difference in whether or not you win a gold medal in 
the Olympics. But | don’t think those milliseconds are 
really relevant to our ability to function every day. But it 
is easy to understand that the average person might 
assume that slower is worse, especially in our fast- 
pxuced society. 

Third, of course, there is the pace of society. 
Societal and technological change is another force that 
has probably contributed to this idea that over thirty 
is “old.” Older people, particularly in high-technology 
occupations, would be more likely to be bypassed 
by technological change and, therefore, compare 
poorly with their younger peers — even though they 
may be functioning as well as ever. But since there are 
no measurable intellectual declines until people reach 
their early sixties, there is every reason to assume that 
most people — at least people under the early sixties — 
can be retrained to compensate for technological 
change 

Finally, there’s the impact of disease on our ideas 
about intellectual change and aging. It's becoming 
increasingly clear that as people get older, a wide vari- 
ety of medical disorders — disorders which don’t seem 
to affect the intellectual functioning of younger people 
— do affect the intellectual function of older people. 


Drugs taken in quantities that are too large or in the 
wrong combinations; diabetes; thyroid disease; kidney 
disease and other diseases causing metabolic imbal- 
ance; poor nutrition; heart disease; even pneumonia. All 
of these can affect an older person's intellectual ability 
in ways not affecting a younger person. 

One important contribution that employers can 
make to the mental functioning of their workers is to 
make them aware of the fact that this occurs. They can 
also make sure that they understand that at certain 
age levels, a sudden or steady intellectual decline is 
invariably a sign of illness, not age. It's easy to under- 
stand, of course, that when diseases were harder to 
treat, and when they occurred earlier in life, their effect 
on mental function oniy further served to advance the 
idea that people were beginning to decline after age 30. 

What happens to abilities after age 60? From 
the early sixties until the late seventies, there are indeed 
real and measurable declines in selected abilities. But 
it's important to emphasize that these declines are 
selective. They occur in some abilities, but noi all, and 
in sone people, but not all. 

On the verbal scale of the Wechsier Adult Intelli- 
gence Test, the most widely used intelligence test in the 
United States and perhaps in the world, there is, from 
the age of 17 until the age of 80, barely a change of 
even one standard deviation. There are very few 
changes in intellectual function with age: in general 
information about the world, comprehension, ability to 
make judgments about the outcomes of various cir- 
cumstances, arithmetic, vocabulary. If you scan the 
scores, you see that they remain very stable. 

But as | said, some abilities do change. As man- 
agers faced with managing an aging work force, it is 
important for you to understand the iniellectual 
changes that do occur so that work situations can be 
altered to accommodate these changes. 

What are these actual changes? 

The most common complaint that you hear 
among older people is that, “My memory isn't as qood 
as it used to be.” Experimental investigation supports 
this conclusion, with some interesting and very impor- 
tant exceptions. On labor.tory tests, such as word lists, 
where you give somebody a list of dissociated words 
to learn, older people as a group remember consider- 
ably less than do younger people. But on material orga- 
nized in a paragraph format, where there is a logical 
coherence about the information — a situation that's 
much more like real life — there are no differences 
between young and old people! 

So there's a seeming contradiction: If memory 


Dr. Marilyn Albert, 
Assistant Professor 
of Psychiatry 

and Neurology, 
The Harvard Medical 
School; Clinical 
Assistant in 
Neurology and 
Psychiatry, 
Massachusetts 
General Hospital: 


differences in old and young people become less and 
less evident as the task gets c!user and closer to real 

life, then why do we hear oid people say that their mem- 
ory ability is getting worse? | think there are basically 
two additional age-related changes in intellectual per- 
formance that explain this: 

First, older people do show changes in their abil- 
ity to produce the names of objects or people. In fact, 
it's not uncommon to hear people say, “My memery 
is getting worse. | just can’t remember people’s names 
any more.” If we test naming ability in the laboratory 
with pictures of objects, or with faces of people that are 
thoroughly familiar to all of us, older people know the 
use of objects, or pertinent facts about the people. 

But they have much more trouble than younger people 
producing the appropriate names. Let me emphasize, 
however, that this isn't really a memory problem, it's a 
naming problem: a lanquage problem. 

The second ace-related change in performance 
— change in attention — probably contributes even 
more to the older person's self-perception of a memory 
change with age. One of the clearest results from the 
psychological aging research done over the past 20 or 
50 years is that as people get older, they have more and 
more difficulty in dividing their attention. Suppose we 
ask someone to scan an array of letters, cross out all the 
letter “A's” and, at the same time, listen to a tape and 
identify a repeating letter. Now, young people cope 
moderately well with such simultaneous tasks. But 
older people tend to concentrate on one task while 
performance deteriorates on the other. If you add a 
memory component so that the information must be 
manipulated at the same time the person is being dis- 
tracted, the performance falls even more. Until the 
end of their fifties, people are able to do such divided- 
attention tasks fairly well. Then there's a dropoff in 
performance. 


If you consider the structure of the typical work 
environment — at least if your work environment is 
anything like mine, where there are 20 different things 
going on simultaneously — it becomes apparent that 
decrements in intellectual capacity could produce 
reductions in performance. This is not because the abil- 
ity to process information has actually decreased, but 
because the concurrent attentional demands make 
it rnore difficult for the individual to perform at his best. 

So age-related changes in attention can produce 
changes in performance. One can imagine that the 
older worker, experiencing difficulty with the old ways of 
performing a task, would seem the perfect candidate 
for what is often referred to as job burnout. Not realizing 
that he has to change the way in which a job is normally 
performed in order to accommodate to such changes, 
the older worker might set unrealistic goals for himself. 
He might find, time and again, that these goals cannot 
be met. Then he might get frustrated, apathetic and 
ultimately become unable to cope. 

Such an outcome, however, is neither necessary 
nor inevitable. For the facts suggest that by concentrat- 
ing in a few specific areas, one can find specific ways to 
reduce such difficulties and to maximize the productiv- 
ity of the older worker. 

How? First of all, it’s important for employees to 
r ognize and understand the possibility of selective 
changes in intellectual function with age. Programs of 
career planning and development, or programs of 
health care in the workplace, might serve well as 
devices for conveying this important information. 

Such programs could also prepare older workers for the 
possibility of changing their jobs or their work habits 
to compensate for such changes. 

But once such selected changes are recognized 
and accepted, what then can be done about them? 

With regard to naming deficits, what can or should 


Pes 


be done? The implications of changes in naming for work nected, improving memory in the older worker would 
depend entirely, of course, upon how important itis fora | seem primarily a matter of organizing material so that it 


person to remember names in his job. Remember: peo- has a logical and contextual appearance. Rather than 
ple don't forget an object — only its name. They don't an abstract list of changes or directives, for example, a 
forget who a person is, or the important things about memo should give the reason for the changes. Or, 
that person. They just have difficulty producing the name. whenever possible, information should be related to 
So many jobs can be done gs , ae . 

perfectly well, evenifnam- @ , a . % 


ing ability is, altered. q . 
For the salesman % 
or manager, however, 
ability to produce a name 
may affect his social en- 
counters and, therefore, 
his success on the job. 
There are a variety of 
memory-training tricks that 
can be used to improve 
" naming. We call them 
“mediation imagery, ” or 
mnemonics. They are 
well-described in a book 
by Dr. Laird Cermak, pub- 
lished by Norton Press, 
called Improving Your 


Memory. 
Itseemstomethat Ff 
the methods Dr. Cermak " a 
describes could be devel- : 
oped into short courses z 4 
available at the workplace _" 4, ot be 
on how to improve memory 4 . 
for names. In fact, | can think of a lot of my younger col- information already in memory, and formats should be 
leaques who could benefit from such a course as well! used with which older workers are already familiar. 
Now, what about actual memory? Given the In my opinion, however, the most important 
fact that memory problems among older workers are change to which older workers and employers must 


most apparent when information is abstract and discon- become sensitive is the change in divided atieniion. For 


people in managerial positions, this might be expected 

to take its biggest toll. Simple awareness of the problem 
may be enough to enable many individuals to analyze 
the job they have, and to try to fiqure out better ways 

of coping. One person, for example, might find it help- 
ful to tz.xe careful notes of meetings and phone calls 
and then review them later before making a decision. 
Another might find it necessary to have phone calls 
screened more often so that there are fewer 
interruptions. 

Some workers, however, may need actual train- 
iny 'n how better to focus their attention. It may be 
necessary to show people how to set tasks for them- 
selves, one at a time; to perform them to a certain 
degree of completion before they begin other compet- 
ing tasks. Dr. Cermak’s book offers some suggestions 
on these lines. But this is really an area where research 
in the workplace seems to me to be most necessary. We 
know very little about the capacities that people draw 
upon to accomplish a particular job, and different jobs 
necessarily make different intellectual deminds. | 
would think that jobs with high attentional demands 
should be targeted first for some sort of in-aepth exami- 
nation and be systematically evaluated concv-rning how 
best to alter the flow of events and the attentional de- 
mands, so that if older workers encounter dift‘culties, 
they will Know how to adapt to them. 

There is one additional consideration about 
restructuring jobs for older workers: How adaptable is 
the indivicual? How willing is he or she to make 
changes in his work style or to accept changed respon- 
sibilities? Is it true, as is often thought, that as people 
get older they become more rigid and less willing to 
make changes? 

Literally hundreds of studies have been done in 
the past two decades to evaluate personality change 
with age. The general outcome of all of them has been 
that individual differences |: aging appear tc far out- 
weigh any uniform direction of change. There is conti- 
nuity and consistency 0. personality with age. In fact, a 
recent article on this subject had a title which | thought 
was extremely clever in pointing this up. It was called, 
Stil Stable After All These Years. 

Olde. =eople, like younger ones, have differing 
capacities for coming to terms with changing life situa- 
tions. Some do it well; some do it poorly. Knowing an 
individual's age does not enable us to predict how well 


that person is going to adapt to change. 

So what do we know about adaptability and how 
well we can measure it in the work place? 

Fortunately, two investigators at the gerontology 
research center of the National Institute on Aging, Dr. 
Paul Costa and Dr. Robert McCray, have developed 
a technique for measuring what they call “openness to 
new experience.” This trait correlates very highly with 
better coping strategies, more active and rational plan- 
ning for the future, taking more responsibility for one’s 
own actions, seeking more alternatives in a situation 
and being less likely to get sick under stress. 

This “openness to new experience” inventory 
consists of 145 items; it takes 30 minutes to administer. 
And most iittriguing, Dr. Costa and Dr. McCray have 
some unpublished data which relates their “openness 
to new experience” inventory to job change. Several 
years ago, they gave 274 men and women the inventory 
and then followed them for several years. Of those 274, 
40 changed their jobs. Seventy-four percent of the men 
and 81 percent of the women who changed their jobs 


scored above the mean on the “openness to new experi- 
ence” inventory. 

In summary, there are unquestionably changes 
in performance for most individuals as they grow older. 
But these changes are selective and by no means uni- 
versal. There are, after the early sixtics, changes in 
some Capacities, but not in others — and in some peo- 
ple, but not in all. it is incorrect to assume, as was once 
thought, that all abilities change extensively. But | think 
it would be just as unwise to pretend that no abilities 
change — because it is only when we recognize and 
understand real changes that we can find ways of adapt- 
ing to or circumventing them. 
eee 


Nie: long ago, | heard a talk by Lester Kom, who is 
head of Korn-Ferry, a firm concerned with recruit- 
ing and placing chief executive officers in business. 
Lester Korn gave his talk in Town Hall, Los Angeles, on 
the theme, “What Does It Take Today To Get To The 
Top — And Stay Thee?” 

He pointed out that the new look in executives is 
going to be anti-MBA. The demand for top executives 
may not be for “bottom-liners, ” but for people who have 
a broad-range view of the world. Because of our 
dependence upon suppliers and markets abroad, he 
said, we are going to need in the future a much broader 
scope in business leadership. We are going to have to 
work with people of different ethnic identities. We are 
going to need a deeper knowledge of social organiza- 
tions. He said, “The skills that an MBA has, you can 
always buy.” 

Well, the more | listened, the more it seemed to 
me that he was emphasizing general experience, and 
therefore, age. Later, in a private conversation, | asked 
Mr. Korn about this, and he told me the story of an 
industry in Japan. In this Japanese company, he said, 
the chief executive officer retired at age 84 and was 
succeeded by a man aged 79. Now, that could never 
happen in America. The image of the American CEO, 
which we cultivate, is an image of youth, vigor, decisive- 
ness. What does ihe Japanese CEO cast as an image? 
Continuity with culture, maturity and stability. | will 
leave it to you to infer which system succeeds. 

In fact, while the outer limits of our skills may in 
some cases diminish with age, an older person may 
stay within those limits more effectively and, therefore, 
may even transcend his earlier productivity. Perhaps 
youth who show a higher accident rate in industry do so 
in part because they want to test their limits. Being 
prone to action, they commit movie accidents. The older 
person, Dy staying within the limits, may have a more 
comfortable relationship with his job and perhaps pro- 
duce more! In any event, you cannot infer from a nar- 
rowing of the limits around performance that actual 
performance in a particular circumstance will decline. 

Life, we might say. is made up o/ three phases: a 
phase of development, in which we get prepared for 
independent action. to become increasingly autonc 
mous. Then there is tne beginning of changes, of limits 
that come with age, but we can compensate for them 
to an extraordinary degree. Then finally, there is a 
period of decompensation, of steep decline, that may 
be fairly short. Now, how long is that decompensation 
phase, that period of terminal decline? It can be just 
a matter of a couple of months in a long life span. | 
think it’s important to keep in mind that we should 
never average that decompensation phase for an indi- 


vidual, by projecting it and creating a mythical curve 
of “average dwindling.” 

| heard not long ago of a man who retired at age 
60 as president of a college in one of the Scandinavian 
countries. He managed a cooperative farm until he was 
100. He retired again and lived alone until he was 103. 
He died at 104. His period of decompensation was 
about three months of his total life. So it would be a 
mistake to judge his effectiveness in a real environment 
by a set of averages. 

Dr. Albert emphasized, in her remarks, some- 
thing that seems to me very important: attentional shift. 
We can do individual things quite well as we age. But 
when we have to shift attention to another task, there 
may be a sluqgishness in the shift. Watch, if you will, 
some older people as they prepare to cross the street at 
a busy intersection. By the time they integrate all the 
activities — the passing automobiles, the other pedes- 
trians, the requirements of stepping down from the 
curb — their response is already antiquated in terms of 
the environmental demands. They do everything per- 


fectly well, but not quite quickly enough. There is some- 


thing sluqgish about the shift of attention. 

Now this problem — the problem of attentional 
shift — is obviated if you don't apply unrealistic time 
pressure to the older person. If your stoplight is so 
timed that they can only get to the middle of the street 
betore it changes, then you are causing the limitation! 

In fact, as Dr. Albert said, the healthy individual 
doesn't lose much information with age. If a person 
begins to lose verbal information, the loss is probably 
more health-related than age-related. Indeed, most 
of the things that we identify as changes with age are 
really changes in health. The age changes, when they 
are there, are pretty subtle, pretty small. 

Grmucho Marx made the comment once that he 
never iorgot a face — but in some cases, he was willing 
to make an exception. The point is that with age, there 
are some things thet we should forget. Wisdom lies 
in picking those thing well. 

With regard to persona ‘ity, there tends to be a drift 
with advancing age, toward reflectiveness. That is prob- 
ably a desirable change. Again, that may be one reason 
why the older worker probably is less involved in acci- 
dents. Older workers reflect more on the consequences 
of their acts. They're less prone to test their limits. 
When I was a young boy, we used to play games of 
“chicken” to find out what the limits were. Well, if you 
play that game too much, you are going to cause some 
problems for yourself. 


Dr. James E. Birren, 
Executive Director, 
Andrus 

Geronto oqy 
Center; Dean, The 
Leonard Davis 
School of 
Gerontology, and 
Professor of 
Psychology, The 
University of 
Southern 
California: 


Another point: older people are in fact more 
susceptible to depression — though it’s important to 
point out that not every older person is. This may be 
an endoge: ous change. It may be due, perhaps, to a 
neuro-hormonal shift. On the other hand, it could be 
related to what I call “faulty self-regulation of self- 
esteem.” If we have negative images in society about 
older people, some older people will over-incorporate 
those images. They will have a breakdown of self- 
esteem. So there's a real necessity, as | see it, to teach 


older people the skills of “self-requlating self-esteem.” As 
intelligent, communicative people here, | suspect that 
we could go around the room and ask the question, 
“What do you do to keep your spirits up? How do you 
regulate your own self-esteem?” It’s a knowable skill, 

and it should be promulgated. 

We did surveys in Los Angeles in which we looked 
at the age at which peopie thought old age began. 
When is a person old? The Anglo population picked 75. 
The blacks, | believe, picked 67. And the Chicanos 
picked somewhere in the fifties. The point is this: If you 
have certain social expectations, you begin to live up 
to those expectations. 

| would make another point. Individuals of all 
ages form attachments to their environment: attach- 
ments to procedures, to things, to ideas and to other 


people. In industry, the passage of time results in these 
attachments being more strong in the older worker. 
This has a positive effect in the Japanese work force. 
Japanese workers are almost idealistically atiached 

to their corporations. If you insult the compaty, you 
have insulted the worker. Now if you suddeniy remove 
the worker, those affections, those attachments, are 
suddenly broken. We can infer, therefore, that the 
movement of a factory site, say, has more impact on 
older workers than on younger ones. If you are in per- 
sonnel work, you should know how to deal with this 
— because the older worker has more investment in 
that site. 

It turns out also that the lower the status of the 
worker, the more the feeling of displacement and loss. 
The abstract chief executive officer has no problem 
in such situations. To him, or her, a move represents a 
movement up. Such managers, too often, don’t under- 
stand why the older workers, especially at the lower 
levels, don’t appreciate the move. Well, the answer is 
that they had an investment — an emotional investment 
— in the previous site. 

Another matter, which Dr. Albert touched upon, 
is the myth that older persons are not good learners. 

It may be true that if you look at the learning curve 

of older persons compared with younger ones, it takes 
longer for the older person in the initial phases. But 
the curve catches up. You end up with the same level of 
mastery. It simply takes a little longer. 

Interestingly enough, in this connection, repre- 
sentative samples of older people now indicate — even 
for people over 70 — that one of their greatest com- 
plaints is lack of learning opportunities. This is not what 
you would expect. You would expect that people over 
70 would want access to medical care, housing, added 
income. Yet it seems that one of the largest unmet 
needs for the relatively healthy older person is oppor- 
tunities to learn. Again, we shatter a stereotype. 

Another point about the management of the 
labor force should be to use the attachments formed by 
older workers in a positive way: through mentorship, 
for example — the raising up of heirs, if you will, in the 
industry. It is both possible and desirable to use the 
emotional investment of the older worker in his job to 
help transfer corporate lore and loyalty to the young. At 
all levels, from the skilled operations level to the man- 
agement level, such mentorship is, in my judgment, 

a positive personnel practice, and something to be 
cultivated. 
TNR 


How does aging affect job performance — 
and performance appraisals? 


L et me start by pointing out that in some high-tech- 
nology companies — particularly in engineering 
and scientific occupations — there are a couple of fasci- 
nating stereotypes at work. One is that the half-life of 
knowledge, from the date of graduation, is seven years; 
in other words, a graduate engineer's training becomes 
somewhat obsolete in seven years. Another stereotype 
is that performance declines with age — particularly 

in nonsupervisory engineers over age 40. 

Now, obviously the potential consequences of 
acting on such stereotypes in administrative decisions 
— decisions about pay, promotion, and layoffs — are 
great. This kind of thinking-by-stereotypes can contrib- 
ute to an organization's failure, for example, to take 
steps to maintain and enhance the knowledge and skills 
of technical employees as they grow older. As a conse- 
quence, you may have higher turnover than is neces- 
sary, and you may have lower motivation among this 
class of employees. 

Do ability and motivation — those major compo- 
nents of performance — actually fall off with advancing 
age? Does age affect personnel outcomes or 
performance? 

First, let's examine ability. Does it fall off with 
age? Now some 40 years ago, it was thought that this 
was the case. But — as Dr. Albert pointed out this morn- 
ing — such a finding based on research is a Classic 
example of questionable research. What you really see 
in this thinking about age and performance is the 
“cohort effect”. For example, if you measure the intelli- 
gence of different cohorts — different age groups — 
at the same time, what you really measure is the effect 
of cultural and educational differences, not innate 
ability. 

To get a more accurate picture, you must take a 
look at the question on a longitudinal basis. You must 
measure a person's intelligence, then follow him along 


over the years. By doing this we have learned that men- 


tal ability does not decline significantly with age. 

Now as we saw this morning, some significant 
aspects of change with age do become visible very late: 
after age 65 or 70, perhaps. But it is very important to 
remember, especially in an institutional or company 
context, that there is wide variability around that aver- 
age line. The variability is so great, in fact, that it bars us 
from making any useful generalizations. 

In fact, it is possible for mental ability actually to 
improve with age in some individuals! And we need 
to understand as well that the maintenance of knowl- 
edge, skills and abilities generally can be handled 
through good adjustments by the individual and by the 
employer concerned. Sometimes this adjustment pro- 
cess involves schooling and training, sometimes merely 
experience on the part of both the individual and the 
organization. But this is an important point: adjust- 
ments — new learning — can and does tak:: place. 


. The other variable that I want to discuss is moti- 
vation. Not job satisfaction, mind you, but motivation. 
The two are different things. Now | have seen no well- 
controlled research into the impact of age on motiva- 
tion. So my remarks about motivation will be based on 
my experience in corporate management. 

| suspect that most of us in this room would 
agree that motivation does change with increasing age. 
But the real question is this: “How does this change in 
motivation affect effort and performance 0:1 the job? 
Does it result in higher performance, lower perfor- 
mance, or in no change at all?” | don’t know the answer. 
But I’m certain of one thing: Whoever does research 
into this question will find, once again, wide differences 
between individuals and occupational groups. 

So it’s very clear to me that for most practical 
managerial decisions concerning the performance of 
older employees, you simply can’t generalize. You need 
valid data, relevant to the particular job situation at a 
particular moment. 

What about the impact of age on actual job 
performance? 

From a practical, operating point of view, this 
whole question turns upon the extent to which man- 
agers are willing and able to measure and document 
performance in the first place. Formal performance 
appraisals, after all, are — or should be — a major basis 
for decisions affecting pay, promotion and termination 
in most business and government organizations. It’s 
extremely important, therefore, to know what the sta 
of the art is regarding the accuracy of such form: 
measurement instruments. 

How accurate are performance appraisals? The 
evidence from research — and some of it, as you know, 
is my own — says that performance ratings are greatly 
influenced by chance and by a dozen factors that have 
absolutely nothing to do with performance! 

You probably know three of these factors right 
off the bat: age, sex and race. You know these from the 
court cases. Those of you who work in the area of 
human resource management probably also know a 
few other factors that bias performance appraisals 
— factors that have nothing at all to do with perform- 
ance. These are length of service — either company or 
job tenure; the performance-appraisal method; the 
purpose of the performance appraisal; the personalities 
of the boss and the subordinate and the relationship 
between the two of them; the job itself — and salary. 

Incidentally, there are a couple of other funny, 
not so well-known, variables which also bias perfor- 
mance appraisals: functional and hierarchal business 
level. Yes, friends: the people on the top of the house 
rate themselves significantly better than those on 
the bottom of the house — and this is true across 
companies. 

So what's the conclusion? It is that performance 


Dr. Nathan 
Winstanley, 
Compensation 
Research Manager, 
The Xerox 
Corporation, 
Rochester, 

New York: 


_ 
on ™— 


appraisals are just about as valid — and just about as 
invalid — as the process of selecting and promoting 
employees. The validity coefficients are at best about .5 
— which means that thei e’a an “error” factor of about 
75 percent! 

And so, along with others who've done research 
in this area, I've concluded that at best, we can rate 
accurately only the extreme cases: the people who are 
very pocr employees and those who are outstanding. 
This comes to about 10 to 15 percent of the total rated 
population. 

What are the ; ractical implications of all this? 

First, it seems to me that both government and 
business organizations need to undertake more 
research to analyze these various biasing variables — 
and to minimize them, if possible. Especially the one 
we're discussing today: age. 

Second, | would suggest that employers need to 
acapt their methods of performance appraisal to the 
current, inadequate state of the art as I've just described 
it. To me. it would make more sense, instead of using 
such elaborate and incorrect rating schemes, to sim- 
plif, the procedure. Instead of using a seven-point rat- 
irig scale, for exampi > — since the state of the art says 
you Can probably ide » ify only the two extremes — | 
would say simplify; a la >t to the state of the art and use 
a three-point rating scale. If you're going to use per- 
formance appraisais, ycu don't need elaborate rating 
scales. 

Third: Do not use current performance appraisals 
as a basis of promotion decisions unless you can be 
sure (via research) they’re valid. Use them instead as 
mechanisms of employee development. 

What would be the benefits of taking some of the 
steps I've just outlined? Well, if you carried some of 
these ideas through, you would simplify the salary- 
increase process. And by using a three-point rating 
scale, you would minimize any potential legal exposure, 

. . arising from the Age Discrimination in Employment 
Act. You would minimize your legal exposure by adapt- 
ing to the current state of the art. 

Finally, if you think of performance .:oraisal as a 
tool for development, rather than administiation, you 
help people do better. You remove the threat that’s 
inherent in performance appraisals, and you reduce 
antagonisms which can ultimately end up in court. You 
turn the manager into a counselor rather than a judge. 
if you think of pe formance appraisal as a development 
tool, you're concentrating your appraisals on ability 
and motivation, rather than on results achieved. 

Undoubtedly, this sort of thinking is counter- 
cultural. It goes against the current value system in 
management to say that you can’t make fine-line dis- 
criminations. But the research is there. The facts are 


there. So | don’t believe that government and business 
organizations have much choice: practical, leyal and 
ethical necessity dictate that we shouid start to change 
and improve the ways that management measures per- 
formance — not just for old people, but for all people. 
al 


i happen to think that attention to the older worker » 
issue has to concentrate not just on hiring older 
workers, but on retention and promotion of older work- 
ers — and by promotion, |’m also including salary 
increases. The greatest impact on the well-being of 
older workers — and on the health of our economy 

— will .ome from retaining older workers, although 
much of (he pub!ic image has to do with Firing olde: job 
applicants. . . 

There's a factor left out of much of our discussion 
today: that there’s a large element of self-selection on 
the part of older workers. They self-select themselves 
out for retirement. In fact, when we talk about job reten- 
uon for older workers, we're talking about a very small 
surviving remnant of critical cases. The statistics are 
clear: most people retire before the age of 65, and most 
retire voluntarily. The percentage is very small for those 
who retire because of mandatory retirement policies. 

And with the raising of the legal mandatory retirement 
age to 70, the number or mandatory retirements is 
likely to become even smaller. A large percentage who 
retire before age 65, by the way, retire for reasons of 
health. 

The Japanese stress continuity of their executives 
with the same company over a long period of time. But 
we have developed the pattern of job-hopping among 
executives: You don’t feel you're a success if you've 
stayed with a company jive years or more. Just picture 
what the cost is of executives and middie managers 
moving into companies about which they know hardly 
anything in terms of its culture, its social patterns — 
and the experience gained through staying with a com- 
pany in times of crisis. We hear stories: now of head- 
hunters, executive search cor panies, ‘ooking for older 
executives for companies in trouble; they re not looking 
for bright young MBA’s, because the bright young MBA’s 
have had no experience in crisis. 
iad 


Fs 


Dr. Harold L. 
Sheppard, 


Associate Director 


for Research and 
Evaluation, 
National Council 
on the Aging, Inc., 
Washington, D.C.: 


wt 


sad 


Dr. James Watke;, 
Vice President 
Towers, Perrin 
Forster and Crosby, 
Boston. 
Massachusetts: 


Can we shape new personnel practices 
for managing an aging workforce? 


have some good news and some bad news. 

The bad news, as we have already heard, is that 
there is no panacea. There are no easy answers to 
any of these questions about aging, work, and retire- 
ment. Certainly we're trying to utilize our older employ- 
ees more effectively. Certainly we're trying to manage 
retirement timing in ways that are fair and consistent 
with what we know about aging and health. But it’s 
extremely complex and difficult, and | don’t think we're 
going to see a major revolution in company practices 
over the next few years. 

The good news is that it’s really not that urgent 
Everybody refers to the urgency of the demographics. 
But in fact, the baby boom is the majcr demographic 
fact, and the baby boomers will nox reach retireme 1t 
age for another 20, 30, to 40 years. The year 2010 will 
be the var that the real impact hits. 

Now, this doesn’t make the plight or the interests 
of older Americans — those who are older today — 
any less important. Put from a management point of 
view, the impact is nxt vet being felt. Most of the clients 
of our firm would say, “There’s plenty of time to worry 
about erm pioying older workers. Meanwhile, there’s 
plenty of talent available. All you have to do is recruit it.” 
And in fact, inere is a major bulge of talent out there 
today in the 28-to-35 age range. 

Our management concern today about aging 
and work is that employee who feels like the man ina 
recent New Yorker cartoon: “At precisely 3:47 this after- 
noon, my fire went out.” What can we do to prevent 
or relieve such feelings of employee burnout? What can 
we do to help employees fulfill their fondest life expec- 
tations? We do have tools. We have second careers. 

We have gradual retirement. We have programs of 
career renewal. We have pressure upon companies 
to help employees fulfill their lives. 

But are we really using these tools? That's the 
point I want to alk about: What are our plans? What do 
we intend to do differently, as a res:li of having been 
to this seminar today? 

Most of the companies that I Know are concerned 
about the aging of the workforce — but only to an 
extent: Only to the extent that t 1ey are getting hit by age 
discrimination suits. Only to the extent that the wrong 
people are opting for early retirement. Only to the 
extent that they are having problem cases, or Gray 
Panther-type organizations making noise. Only to the 
extent, finally, that senior executives, or personnel 
officers, are personally interested in or committed to 
the subject of aging and work. 


Our primary concern, in the corporate world, has 
been the avoidance of adverse events — not the crea- 
tion of positive events; not the creation of policies which § 
will enhance the employment and development of 
older employees. 

Surely companies would like to minimize prob- 
lems surrounding terminations and forced retirements. 
So the key questions become, “How can we effect more 
gradual retirements? How can we make retirement 
timing more suited to the capabilities of our employees 
— particularly managerial, professional and technical § 
employees? And how car w< do a better job of utilizing 
the peop:e we have? 

The question of retirement, or withdrawal from 
the workforce, really gets to the heart of something 
else: something we call “employment at will.” This is a 
whole legal field now starting to emerge; it questions 
the basis on which any employee can be terminated. In 
fact, we may be moving toward the traditional Japanese 
model which has been mentioned several times today: 
once we hire somebody, we may be stuck with him or 
her for life, for better or for worse. At the same time, 
ironically, the Japanese are moving more toward our 
model; how soon we might cross points, I’m not sure. 

In any event, there is a view that we are commit- 
ted to employing people. The plus side of all this is 
the impulse it creates to utilize people more effectively. 
We're under a mandate, for the next few years, to 
increase our efforts to accommodate the abilities and 
interests of employees no matter how their abilities are 
coristrained — whether by technologic:'| obsolescence, 
failing eyesight, injury, accident, illness or whatever. In 
fact, we are obligated to provide other career opportuni- 
ties to stich people under strict conditions of law. 

Particularly for older workers, then, retraining is 
going to receive more attention — especially as private 
corporations shift their emphasis from the baby boom- 
ers to the older part of the workiorce. 

When we consider gradual retirement, or part- 
time employment for retired workers, or fulltime post- 
retirement employment, we need to consider other, 
related issues. What policies shall we set up, for exam- 
ple, regarding accruals — the basis on which we pay 
pensions? Will we provide any increased pension to 
people who continue working in one capacity or 
another? If you continue pension accruals, do you give 
them to part-time employees? I've consulted the 
experts on these questions. They say, “It depends.” 

But the point is that you have an opportunity to 
make policy. You can develop policies today and think 


them through in a philosophic way. You ca. implement 
such policies today and not create havo - - because the 
numbers of pecple involved now are rather small so 

far. But if you wait 20 years, it will be too late. Your 
con ipetitors will already have their policies; some other 
idea may be mandated by lz.w — and any mistake will 
have a major effect because the numbers of neople 
involved will be large. So today — while people are still 
retiring early — is the right time to address these 
questions. 

One of our actuaries, pondering this question, 
said that there is a trend these days to save money 
by eliminating pension accruals after age 65. This is 
allowed, | understand, by various laws. But if you're 
trying to encourage people to stay on, that may be a 
bad idea — because in a sense, for every year that 
a person defers his or her retirement income benefits, 
you're saviing about _O percent on an ac’ ‘iarial basis. 
Can't you share that a little bit with some uf these peo- 
ple — and actually encourage some of them to stay or? 

There has been a change in the practice of com- 
puting retirement income, as | understand it. Now it’s 
computed on the highest three to five yea*s, not the 
final three to five years. Now that’s goud news if you're 
encouraging people to retire gradually — because they 
will not be penalized by having lower incomes at the 
time of retiremen’. 

Companies need to start asking, “What kind of 
benefits should we be providing — what kinds of 
changes should we have — in order to manage the 
retirement process better?”. 

What about the management issue of he" ‘o get 
rid of people? Some people we'd like to stay. Some 
people we'd like ‘o lei leave. The situation can be 
expressed as a set of arid, on which there are several 
intersections: 

There are those who would like to stay — and 
whom we'd like to have stay. We need to facilitate their 
staying on; to make it possible for them to stay on, 
given continued good performance. We should bz 
upbeat about it 

Then there are those wt}\o want to leave, but 
whom we'd like to have stay. 'a this case, we should 
provide special reasons for them to stay: special 
accommodations. 

Next there are those who would like to leave — 
and whom you'd like to see retire. | would say, in this 
case, let them go. Don’t remove your early retirement 
provisions. But remember that inducements to retire 
are tricky these days — because they may be 


viewed in some courts as forced retirement. 

Firsally, there are those whom you'd like to see 
leave -— but who are inclined to stay on. In such cases, 
you are forced to consider termination. And this is 
where your performance appraisals come in. Even 
though there is no real “truth” in them, we have to have 
such appraisals — to justify terminations in the courts. 

Now, if you look at this quartet of situations, 
you see that three out of four are positive — and that's 
pretty good news! 

My point is that we need to sort people out in 
terms of their view of their health, their aging their 
motivations — and then try to fit that in with your view 
of what you'd like them to do. Many of you, doubtless, 
have had the problem of allowing people to retire early 


and finding that the wrong people retire. You say, “Why { 
did we ever allow that?” We're not really counseling 
people in ways that encourage them to move in the 
direction that we would like. 

The group I'm worried about is the baby boom 
group. Today's problems aren't severe enough to get 
attention. But if we wait, as | said, the problems will hit 
hard. How can we get management to change policies 
and launch active programs pertaining to career devel- 
opment over the next few years when, in fact, the envi- 
ronmental conditions are largely the same as they've 
always been? 

It’s time now to get on with the work of making 
things happen. . . 
eee 


Dr. Robert Kahn, 
Professor of 
Psychology, 
Institute for Social 
Research, 
University of 
Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan: 


Tr principl- which seems to me the basic message 
of this day is the importance of fit between people 
and jobs, or rather, between unique individuals and 
specific jobs. 

This principle of quality of fit, if we take it seri- 
ously, rules out ageism, and it rules out the possibility 
of treating all pecple of a given age as if they had the 


same abilities an “ needs, and therefore the same readi- 


ness for retirerm—nt. What it rules in is a set of policies 
that take account of individual needs, abilities and 
differences. 

Dr. Walker's presentation was built around two 
such policies: First, flexibility in the age at which retire- 
ment takes place; second, flexibility in the process by 
which retirement takes place. Almost as important 
as these two policies are their corollaries: the necessity 
for management to take responsibility for term ination 
criteria, and for lifelong career development. On 
these basic points, | am in complete agreement with 
Dr. Walker, and | want to add to the information he 
has provided. 

Let’s consider first the question of flexibility con- 
cerning the expecied age of retirement. Mandatory 


retirement at some uniform chronological age assumes 
what we might call “geneti- egalitarianism.” Well, we 
have heard a lot today about how implausibl-. an 
assumption that is. 

Moreover — and equally implausib!e — « fixed 
norm for retirement age assumes a sameness of life 
experience, so that retirement readiness occurs on the 
same chronological schedule. This, of course, goes 
completely against our knowledge of people — and it 
goes against the overwhelming scientific ev'ccnce. 

The evidence for large individual differences 
among older people shouldn't come as a surprise. 

We accept and expect such differences at other life 
stages. Children, for example, crawl and walk, talk and 
write, at different ages. They mature at different rates. 
Moreover, such diffeences — far from being obliterated 
with age — increase with age, as some recent research 
on the life course demonstrates (National Research 

Plan on Aging, 1982). However great differences in 
function, ability and aspiration among youn: adults 
may be, differences among older adults are even 
greater. 

Dramatic evidence for such differences appears 


in the work published this year by two research scien- 
tists at Ohio State University. Corson and Corson have 
done a remarkable job of locating well-known accom- 
plishments of individ:3is in relation to their age. An 
impressive number of those accomplishments occurred 
at relatively advanced states in the lives of chose people: 

— At the age of 74, Victor Hugo announced that 
he was about to begin his career; his subsequent literary 
output honored the announcement. 

— The first official American statement regarding 
international control of atomic energy, the Baruch Pro- 
posal, came when Bernard Baruch was 78. 

— The Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer 
Research was launched when Charles Kettering was 69; 
he continued as director of the General Motors Research 
Laboratory for some years after that. 

—~- When Karl Menninger moved from the Mennin- 
ger Clinic in Topeka to Chicago, to take on the challenge 
of creating a new center for the study of juvenile delin- 
quency, he was 80 years old. 

— The first Webster's Dictionary was bequn by 
Noah Webster at aye 70. 

And there is a long list of sculptors and artists — 
from Michelangelo to Matisse and Picasso — whose 
old age was marvelously productive. All of us cari add 
~.‘r own favorite examples, from ithe arts and from 
pt lic life. 

Similar examples fron corporate life, howe er, 
are not easy to come by. Why: Precisely becatise the 65- 
year retirement rule has been so widely applied. The 
organizational losses imposed by that rule are difficult 
to estimate, because the potential “post-65” contribu- 
tions to the organization rernain just that: potential. 
They are never realized. 

Statisticians might find in these mandatory retire- 
met it decisions a classic example of “Type I” and “Type 
Il” errors. The Type | error is the false positive: You judge 
some individual to have the distinctive property in which 
you're interested — age-related incapacity, in this case 
— and you act accordingly. If the person is not in fact 
incapacitated, you have terminated that individual when 
you should not have done so. That is to be compared 
to the Type Il error, the false negative, where you judge 
a person not to have some distinctive property when 
in fact the person does. In this instance, you fail to 
terminate a person when you shcu.id. 

Now the problem, from the corporate point of 
view, is that the false positives are forever invisible. The 
individual leaves, as required, at age 65 — and you 
have no way of discovering what that man or woman 


might have done. Potential accomplishments — the evi- 
dence for Type ! errors — are invisible. On the other 
hand, every Type II error wz make — keeping someone 
on when we should have insisted on their retirement 

— is visible every day, if not to us, to others whc will 
remind us of our error! 

There is, then, an understandable bias toward 
the readily visible in corporate life: toward Type | errors 
in compulsory retirement decisions. That is, | believe, 
the dominant error pattern, and a costly one. It arques 
against a uniform retirement age. 

Now, against this array of evidence and infer- 
ence, what are the arguments in favor of a uniform 
retiremeni. age? There are several, and they are not 
trivial. Lniform retirement ages, whether legally 
enforced or enforced by organizational norms, have 
tremendous convenience as social policy. They have a 
kind of objectivity — perverse objectivity, perhaps, 
but objectivity nevertheless. During a period of large- 
scale unemployment, the 65-year rule also serves to 
reduce the apparent level of involuntary unemployment. 

What it actually does, of course, is shift the burden of 
unemployment from the younger age group to the older. 18 

That may be the: lesser evil. A modern philoso- 
pher of science who lilsed to deplore his colleaques’ 
obsession with numbers and to remind them of their 
con eptual duty, once: said, “If yeu can measure it, that 
ain’ it.” His statement is not quite true — but it reminds 
us that when we abanoon the conven- 
ience of chronological standards for 
retirement, we take on resovonsibility 
for something much more c*fficult: 
We take on responsibility for enect- 
ing more relevant criteria and deci- 
sion rules. Age we can count — but 
age ain't it. 

In determining the right to 
vote, the responsibility for serving in 
the military, and the license to drive 
a car — all of which are treated in part as age-deter- 
mined — we have come t » include functional criteria as 
well. We should do at least as well for the right to work. 
We should, in other words, enact policies of genuine 
flexibility with respect to age of retirement. And that, | 
take it, is one of the main messages of this day. 

Another point, whic’ is emphasized in Dr. 
Walker's presentation especially, is the importance of 
flexibility in the rate or process at which retirement 
takes place. The concept of employment and retirement 
as an all-to-nothing transition — a career precipice, 


19 


over which we leap or are pushed — is very unnatural. If 
you look at data from .armers, from self-employed 
managers and professionals, from artists and others 
who have the option of determining their own work 
patterns, you find a gradual reduction of working hours 
rather than sudden retirement. And that, again, should 
hardly be surprising. Other valued activities in our lives 
we do not suddenly quit at some predetermined age. We 
adapt our activity level, instead, to our needs and 
abilities. 

Every corporation has to decide the extent of its 
own flexibility concerning retirement — givcin its tech- 
nology, ‘‘s competition, and its market. These will 
determirie the feasibility of seasonal time off, gradually 
reduced work weeks, the return of retirees at times of 
peak load, and other programs. 

There are many ways of implementing a flexible 
policy governing the process of retirement. Commit- 
ment to that principle is the first step; we can then 
explore, through experience and research, what the 
most appropriate forms are for particular organizations. 

Retirement policies might equally well be called 
work policies; that is, they reflect our values about work 
and our assumptions about the place of work in 
people's lives. These are matters about which a good 
deal of research has been done, so that some assump- 
tions can be replaced with answers. 

We know, for example, that most people say they 
want to continue working. Seventy-five percent of the 
men who are working say that they‘d like to go on work- 
ing even if there were no economic need io do so. 
More than half of all employed women make the same 
statement. When we ask them why, they talk about 
needing some way to organize their time; about not 
Knowing what to do with themselves if they weren't 
working; about wanting to avoid boredom; about want- 
ing to do something that gives direction to their lives, 
and wanting to be with others in some kind of collabora- 
tive effort. People make friends at work; 70 percent of 
employed men and women tell us they have made 
some or all of their best friends at work. 

The next question is whether such patterns are 
changing. And the answer is “not very much.” We first 
asked the question about whether people would quit 
work if they had no economic need to work in 1953; we 
have asked it of national samples a number of times 
since then. There has been a slight drop in the propor- 
tion who say they would go on working, but the drop 
was never large, and there was in fact some slight gain 
in recent years. 

Are these responses age-determined? Well, 
somewhat. If you ask people 2 1-30 years old whether 


they would quit work if they had enough money to 

do so, 80 to SO perce:.< of them say that they would 
keep on working. If you ask the same question of peo- 
ple 55 to 60 years old, 69 percent say they would keep 
on wcrking — still a majority. Age is a factor in this 
respoi1se — but it is not the main explanation. 

Do these facts hold true for everybody? Well, it 
depends on your occupation. The worse job you have in 
terms of status, rewards and variety, the more willing 
you'd be to give it up. When we ask people what they 
would want to keep working at, the occupational differ- 
ences are very sharp. Among professionals and man- 
agers, 90 percent said they would like to go on doing 
the same kind of work. Among unskilled auto workers, 
however, only 15 percent wanted to continue their pres- 
ent kind of work. They wanted to keep on working — 
but not at their present jobs. 

A final consideration has to do with job stress. 
Stress research originally came out of the laboratory, 
and most of it attempted to answer questions of “How 
much?” How much of an electric shock can be adminis- 
tered before degradation of performance occurs? How 
much overload of work can be imposed before signs 
of physiological strain are observed? But there is also 
the stress of “too little -— ane for many kinds of stres- 
sors in the actual work setting, the effects of too much 
and too little are very symmetrical. Too much responsi- 
bility is stressful, but sc is having too little responsibil- 
ity, and so with overload and underload i> a broader 
sense. 

The wise choice, is we have been told today in a 
umber of different ways and from a number of differ- 

.wreses ~h bases, calls for flexibility: flexibility in order 
to ach’ ve yoodness of fit between person and job. 
Flexibility in the time of retireinent, and in the rate or 
process of retirement are key elements — not only 
in corporate policy, but in national choice. 

We are now groping our way toward a national 
policy concerning work and retirement. By one means 
or another, we must decide how work will be allocated 
in our society: between men and women, old and 
young, black and white, skilled and unskilled, educated 
and uneducated. When work is sc_:ce, for whatever 
complex reasons, we have to choose policies which do 
the most for corporate effectiveness, but also for the 
quality of life in the society as a whole. The two princi- 
ples of flexibility which have been so often reiterated 
today represent the direction that those policies should 
take. 
eee 


to 


pms 


One company’s experience, 
a report from The Travelers... 


W: at The Travelers have made a specific corporate 
commitment: to focus energy, our resources, 
and our business leadership on the issue of aging 
in America. We are expressing that commitment across 
the board — in our corporate philanthropy, in our com- 
mun ‘ty-service projects, and in our business dealings as 
a pr. vider of financial services and as the employer of 
more than 29,000 people. 

This commitment led, among other things, to 
the conference whose proceedings are excerpted in this 
booklet. 


Perhaps the most important results, to date, of our 
decision to concentrate on aging issues are to be found 
in changes which affect The Travelers own workforce: 

We began by eliminating all mandatory retire- 
ment ages — even the 70-year age still permitted by 
for retirees to work approximately half-time for the 


Federal lav. We did this not just in our headquarters 
State, Connecticut, where mandatory retirement is pro- 
scribed by law; we took the step throughout our com- 
pany, nationwide. Today, hiring and work at The 
Travelers are based on skill, ability, aptitude, motivation 
and performance — not on age. 

We made still another change: to create job 
opportunities for our retired employees who were inter- 
ested in returning to work. We created a Job Bank to 
provide part-time and temporary jobs to our retirees. 
And we revised our pension policies to make it possible 


*, 


company — with no loss of Travelers retirement 
income. Finally, we started retirement planning cours- 
es for employees age 55 years and older. 

Among the results of our experiments — to our 


surprise and satisfection — was a wave of inte ‘est in 
what we were doing: from the press, from go\ ernment, 


> 
whe 


and from other companies around the country. We 
found that other employers were also concerned about 
aging issues. Some were motivated by their need to 
adjust their policies t-scause of the Age Discrimination 
in Employment Act and its most recent amendments. 
Others were concerned because they were losing highly 
skilled neople to other companies through retirernent 
— anu ey wanted to keep such people, if possible. 
Our exploration of aging issues has made us 
aware of somett'ng else as well: the great need for 
more knowledge and better information about aging 


? 


* 
ee 
y- 


* 
he 


> 
ot 
y¥ > 
% 


and work. The Conference whose proceedings are high- 
lighted in this booklet is one response to that need. 

At The Travelers, we are convinced that the future 
productivity of American business and industry — and 
our future ability to compete economically in the worid 
— will depend in large part upon how well we deal, 
over the next 25 years, with the issues of aging and 
work in America. 


Contents 


Introduction 
Kobert W Feagles, Senior Vice President 
The Travelers Insurance Companies 


What is aging — and why is the clder 
population growing? 

Presentations by Dr. John W Rowe and 

Dr. robert N. Butler 


How does aging affect belic:ior — 
especially intelligence? 
Presentations by Dr. Marilyn Albert and 
Dr. James Emmett Birren 


How does aging affect job performance — 
and performance appraisals? 

Presentations by Dr. Nathan B. Winstanley and 

Dr. Harold L. Sheppard 


Can we shape new personnel practices 
for managing an aging workforce? 
Presentations by Dr. James W. Walker and 

Dr. Robert L. Kahn 


One company's experience, A report 
from The Travelers 


THE TRAVELERS 


The Travelers Insurance Company 
and its Affiliated Companies 
One Tower Square 
Hartford, Connecticut 06115 


