NATIONAL  BANKS  OF 
THE  UNITED  STATES 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 

OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


National  Banks  of  the  United  States 


National  Banks  of  the 
United  States 

Their   Organization 

Management  and 

Supervision 


1812-1910 


The  National  City  Bank 

of  New  York 

MCMX 


The  National  City  Bank  of  New  York 

Original  Charter  Dated  1812 


Capital  Fully  Paid 
$25,00(),0()0. 


Surplus 
$25,000,000. 


Depository  of  the  United  States, 
of  the  State  and  of  the  City  of  New  York 


James  Stillman,  Chairman  of  the  Board 
F.  A.  Vanderlip,  President 


W.  A.  SiMOKSON,  Vice-President 
H.  M.  KiLBORV,  Vice-President 
J.  A.  Stillman,  Vice-President 
J.  E.  Gardin,  Vice-President 
Samuel  McRoBERTS,  Vice-President 
J.  T.  Talbert,  Vice-President 
J.  H.  McEldqwney,  Vice-President 


Arthur  Kavanagh,  Cashier 
W.  H.Tappan,  Assistant  Cashier 
S.  E.  Albeck,  Assistatit  Cashier 
G.  E.  GntiGORY,  AssistantCashier 
A.  H.  Titus,  Assistant  Cashier 
William  Keed,  Assistant  Cashier 


J.  OGDEN  ARMOUR 

of  Armour  &  Co. 

FRANCIS  M.  BACON 

of  Bacon  &  Co. 

CLEVELAND  H.  DODGE 

of  Phelps,  Dodge  &  Co. 

HENRY  C.  FRICK 

Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

JOSEPH  P.  GRACE 

of  W.  R.  Grace  &  Co. 

CYRUS  H.  McCORMICK 

President,  International  Harvester 

Company 

EDWIN  S.  MARSTON 

President,  Farmers'  Loan  &  Trust  Co. 

GERRISH  H.  MILLIKEN 

of  Deering,  Milliken  &  Co. 

J.  P.  MORGAN,  JR. 

of  J.  P.  Morgan  &  Co. 

STEPHEN  S.  PALMER 

President,  New  Jersey  Zinc  Co. 

GEORGE  W.  PERKINS 

of  J.  P.  Morgan  &  Co. 

JAMES  H.  POST 

of  B.  H.  Howell,  Son  &  Co. 


Directors 

M.  TAYLOR  PYNE 

30  Pine  Street,  New  York 

WILLIAM  ROCKEFELLER 

of  the  Standard  Oil  Co. 

JACOB  H.  SCHIFF 

of  Kuhn,  Loeb  &  Co. 

SAMUEL  SLOAN 

Vice-President,  Farmers'  Loan  ft 

Trust  Co. 

WILLIAM  DOUGLAS  SLOANE 

of  W.  &  J.Sloane 

JOHN  W.  STERLING 

of  Shearman  &  Sterling 

JAMES  STILLMAN 
Chairman  of  the  Board 
JAMES  A.  STILLMAN 
55  Wall  Street,  New  York 
HENRY  A.  C.  TAYLOR 
SO  Pine  Street,  New  York 

MOSES  TAYLOR 

of  Kean,  Van  Cortlandt  &  Co. 

P.  A.  VALENTINE 

60  Wall  Street,  New  York 

FRANK  A.  VANDERLIP 

President 


Copyright,  1910,  by  The  National  City  Bank  of  New  York 


Preface 

THE  National  City  Bank  of  New  York  in 
1904  published  a  book  entitled  "Na- 
tional Bank  Organization." 

Its  object  in  issuing  this  publication  was  to 
bring  together,  in  a  form  readily  accessible, 
information  of  value  to  the  organizers  of  new 
banks  with  regard  to  legal  requirements,  govern- 
ment regulations  and  treasury  usages,  and  to 
answer,  so  far  as  possible,  the  riiany  technical 
questions  arising  in  the  organization  of  new 
national  banks  or  in  the  change  of  private  or 
state  banks  into  national  institutions. 

The  appearance  of  the  work  practically  coin- 
cided with  the  end  of  the  fourth  calendar  year 
since  the  passage  of  the  Act  of  March  14tli,  1900, 
which  gave  so  great  a  stimulus  to  the  national 
banking  system.  That  Act  provided  for  the 
refunding  of  the  national  debt,  the  issuance  of 
2  per  cent  Consols,  the  organization  of  banks 
with  a  minimum  capital  of  $25,000  as  against  a 


ISjeiOOG 


Preface 

previous  minimum  capital  of  $50,000,  and  con- 
tained features  tending  to  make  the  issuance  of 
circulating  notes  more  profitable. 

The  favor  with  which  "  National  Bank  Organ- 
ization" was  received  by  those  interested  in 
the  questions  covered  by  it  led  to  a  widespread 
distribution  of  the  volume  and  resulted  in  a 
demand  for  it  that  even  a  subsequent  edition 
could  not  fully  satisfy. 

In  order  to  meet  that  unsatisfied  demand  for 
copies  of  the  book,  and  to  bring  up  to  date 
matters  concerning  national  banks  w^hich  have 
been  affected  by  recent  legislation  and  changes 
in  the  regulations  of  the  Office  of  the  Comp- 
troller of  the  Currency,  The  National  City  Bank 
of  New  York  issues  this  a  revised  edition  of 
the  work.  As  this  new  edition  will  cover  a  con- 
siderably broader  field  than  the  original  publica- 
tion, it  has  been  deemed  best  to  issue  what  may 
practically  be  regarded  as  a  new  work,  and  to 
designate  this  new  edition  by  a  different  title. 
Those  interested  in  matters  affecting  national 
banks  will,  it  is  hoped,  find  complete  informa- 
tion in  this  new  volume,  entitled,  "National 
Banks  of  the  United  States — Their  Organiza- 
tion,  Management   and   Supervision." 


Preface 

The  National  City  Bank  of  New  York  is 
ambitious  to  be  of  the  broadest  possible  service 
to  the  national  banks  of  the  country.  It  welcomes 
requests  from  the  organizers  and  managers  of 
national  banks  for  information  as  to  general  or 
specific  points.  Inquiries  will  be  answered 
with  the  utmost  promptness. 


Contents 


PAGE 

Detailed  Steps  in  Organization 1 

Qualifications  of  Directors 13 

Enforcing  Payment  of  Capital 15 

C0N\'ERSI0N    OF   StaTE   BaNKS 17 

Reorganization  of  Private  Banks 21 

Consolidation 22 

National  Bank  Note  Circul.\tion 2o 

Profits  on  Circulation 47 

Emergency  Circulation 58 

Bank  Reserves 6G 

Government  Depositaries 75 

Profits  on  Deposits 90 

Official  Reports 104 

Examinations         108 

Corporation  Excise  Tax 109 

Notice  of  Shareholders'  Meeting Ill 

Extension  of  Corporate  Existence 113 

He-extension  of  Corporate  Existence 119 

Expiration  of  Corporate  Existence 121 

Changes  in  Capital  Stock 123 

Change  of  Name  or  Location 127 

Liquidation 130 

Restrictions 131 

New  York  Correspondent 145 

ix 


Detailed  Steps  in  Organization 

THE  first  official  step  in  the  organization 
of  a  national  bank  should  be  an  applica- 
tion to  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency 
at  Washington,  D.  C,  in  accordance  with  Form 
I.*  This  application  must  be  signed  by  at  least 
five  persons  who  intend  to  become  stockholders. 
The  application  may  bear  the  signatures  of  more 
than  five  persons,  if  desired,  but  that  number 
is  sufficient.  The  signers  must  be  natural  per- 
sons— that  is,  individuals  legally  entitled  to  hold 
and  control  property  in  their  individual  right. 
No  corporation,  firm,  or  association  of  any 
character  may  be  a  party  to  the  organization  of 
a  national  bank. 

This  application  to  the  Comptroller  should 
set  forth  the  financial  standing  and  occupation 
of  the  applicants.  It  should  bear  the  endorse- 
ment of  three  prominent  public  officials,  a  United 
States  Senator,  Representative,  Judge  of  Court, 
Mayor  or  Postmaster.  The  blank  for  this  pur- 
pose calls  for  endorsement  by  the  three  last  named, 

♦See  page  167  and  following  for  Official  Documents  and  Forms. 

1 


Executing  Organization  Blanks 

but  other  endorsements  will  be  considered, 
as,  for  instance,  endorsement  by  Members  of 
Congress.  The  exact  title  under  which  it  is 
desired  to  organize,  the  proposed  location,  and 
the  amount  of  the  proposed  capital  must  be 
given.  The  title  desired  should  include  the 
name  of  the  city  in  which  the  bank  is  to  be 
located,  but  not  the  name  of  the  State. 

The  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  very  prop- 
erly insists  that  all  papers  in  connection  with 
the  organization  of  a  national  bank  shall  be  in 
the  exact  form  provided  for  by  office  regula- 
tions. The  organizers  of  a  national  bank  will, 
therefore,  avoid  delay  in  securing  the  approval 
of  their  case  by  the  Comptroller  if  they  will 
take  great  care  to  make  all  papers  accurately 
conform  to  the  office  requirements. 

It  should  be  noted  in  this  connection  that  the 
Comptroller  will  not  give  consideration  to  an 
application  for  a  title  including  the  word  "First" 
if  a  national  bank  exists  or  has  existed  in  the 
place  given  as  the  proposed  location  of  the  new 
bank.  Neither  will  consideration  be  given  to 
an  application  for  any  title  identical  with  that 
of  a  national  bank  which  has  previously  been 
in  existence  in  the  same  place,  nor  to  one  ma- 


Capital   Required 


terially  similar  to  that  of  a  national,  state    or 
other  bank  existing  in  the  place. 

The  capital  necessary  for  the  organization 
of  a  national  bank  is  as  follows: 

In  towns  with  population  of  Minimum  capital. 

Not  more  than    3,000 $25,000 

6,000 50,000 

"      50,000 100,000 

Over  50,000 200,000 

In  order  to  prevent  the  organization  of  a 
national  bank  by  incompetent  or  irresponsible 
persons  or  at  a  place  where  success  appears 
doubtful,  owing  to  lack  of  business  or  the 
existence  of  ample  banking  facilities,  when  an 
application  is  received  which  it  is  thought  is 
not  entitled  to  favorable  consideration,  the 
Comptroller  institutes  a  special  investigation 
through  one  of  his  examiners.  In  some  in- 
stances, where  information  necessary  to  a  just 
determination  of  the  case  cannot  be  secured 
except  by  sending  an  examiner  to  the  locality, 
the  expense  incident  thereto  is  required  to  be 
paid  by  the  applicants. 

If  the  application  submitted  is  approved  by 
the  Comptroller,  he  will  so  notify  the  applicants, 
and  the  title  applied  for  will  be  reserved  for  a 

3 


Articles  of  Association 


period  of  sixty  days,  during  which  time  it  is 
expected  that  the  organization  will  be  completed. 
Upon  approving  the  application  for  organizing 
a  national  bank,  the  Comptroller  will  send  to 
the  applicants  all  necessary  instructions  and 
blanks  incident  to  organization. 

After  the  approval  of  their  application  by  the 
Comptroller,  those  interested  in  organizing  the 
bank  should  execute  Articles  of  Association. 
Typical  Articles  of  Association  have  been 
drafted  by  competent  legal  authority  and  are 
given  in  Form  II.  This  form  may  be  varied 
to  cover  any  special  provision,  not  inconsistent 
with  the  National  Bank  Act,  which  the  organ- 
izers may  wish  to  adopt.  If,  however,  the  form 
suggested  is  adopted,  it  will  be  found  satis- 
factory to  the  office  of  the  Comptroller  of  the 
Currency,  and  will  meet  the  requirements  of 
the  bank. 

The  Articles  of  Association  must  be  signed 
by  not  less  than  five  persons,  preferably  those 
who  presented  the  original  application.  If  a  sub- 
stantial majority  of  the  applicants  do  not  appear 
as  organizers  or  shareholders,  waivers  of  their 
rights  in  the  premises  will  be  required.  The 
Articles    of    Association    must    be    executed    in 


Organization    Certificate 


duplicate,  one  copy  to  be  filed  with  the  Comp- 
troller of  the  Currency,  and  one  to  be  kept  by 
the  bank. 

At  the  time  of,  or  after,  the  execution  of  the 
Articles  of  Association,  the  organizers  must 
execute  an  Organization  Certificate,  in  accord- 
ance with  Form  III. 

The  Organization  Certificate  must  be  exe- 
cuted by  the  same  persons  who  signed  the 
Articles  of  Association.  This  certificate  must 
be  executed  in  duplicate,  one  copy  to  be  filed 
with  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency,  and  one 
to  be  kept  by  the  bank.  The  Organization 
Certificate  must  be  acknowledged  by  the  signers 
thereof  before  a  Judge  of  a  Court  of  Record  or 
before  a  Notary  Public  possessing  a  seal. 

When  the  organization  of  the  bank  is  ef- 
fected and  certificates  for  the  capital  stock  are 
issued,  care  should  be  taken  to  issue  the  cer- 
tificates for  the  amount  and  in  the  names  listed 
in  the  Organization  Certificate,  or  in  cases  of 
assignments,  in  the  names  of  the  assignees  of 
those  listed. 

A  typical  stock  certificate  will  be  found  in 
Form  IV. 

If   Section  3   of   the   Articles   of   Association 


Election  of  Directors 


does  not  name  the  stockholders  who  are  to  serve 
as  directors  of  the  bank,  provision  should  be 
made  for  the  election  of  such  directors  after 
the  Organization  Certificate  has  been  executed. 
This  election  of  directors  should  take  place  at 
a  meeting  held  as  soon  as  practicable  after  the 
execution  of  the  Articles  and  the  Organization 
Certificate. 

After  the  directors  of  the  bank  have  been 
named  by  the  stockholders  (either  by  election 
or  by  appointment),  they  should  take  an  oath 
of  office.  If  the  directors  are  all  residents  of 
the  place  in  which  the  bank  is  to  be  located,  or 
if  they  can  be  assembled,  they  may  take  jointly 
the  oath  given  in  Form  V.  If  it  is  not  con- 
venient for  the  directors  to  take  oath  simul- 
taneously, each  director  may  execute  for  him- 
self an  oath  of  director  as  given  in  Form  VI. 
These  oaths  of  directors  must  be  acknowledged 
before  a  Notary  Public  or  other  official  author- 
ized to  administer  oaths,  and  must  bear  the 
official's  seal.  If  the  official  have  no  seal,  a 
certificate  of  the  proper  State,  county,  or  court 
official,  to  the  effect  that  he  is  authorized  to 
take  acknowledgments,  should  be  attached  to 
the  oath  of  directors. 


Election    of   Officers 


Information  regarding  Qualifications  of  Di- 
rectors, Voting  by  Proxy,  and  Cumulative 
Voting  is  given  on  pages  13  and  14. 

The  directors  should  procure  a  bank  seal. 
The  seal  may  be  made  as  plain  or  as  ornate  as 
desired.  The  only  requirement  is  that  the  seal 
must  bear  the  full  corporate  title  of  the  bank, 
including  the  name  of  the  city.  This  title  is  in 
most  instances  engraved  just  inside  the  cir- 
cumference of  a  circular  or  oval  die,  in  the  center 
of  which,  if  desired,  there  may  be  placed  a 
design  typifying  the  business  of  the  association. 

As  soon  as  practicable  after  the  directors 
have  been  named  and  have  taken  the  oath  as 
directors,  they  should  adopt  by-laws  and  then 
proceed  to  the  election  of  a  President,  Vice- 
President,  Cashier,  and  such  other  officers 
as  may  be  determined  upon.  The  by-laws 
should  define  the  duties  of  officers,  etc.,  and 
make  such  provision  for  the  conduct  of  their 
work  as  may  be  necessary.  Typical  by-laws 
are  suggested  in  Form  VII.  There  may  be 
modifications  from  tliat  form  to  meet  the  views 
of  the  organizers,  but  if  that  form  is  followed, 
it  will  meet  with  the  approval  of  the  Comp- 
troller without  question.     A   copy   of    the   by- 


Stock  Subscriptions 


laws  is  now  required  to  be  sent  to  the  Comp- 
troller, as  soon  as  adopted. 

The  officers  should  send  to  the  Comptroller 
of  the  Currency  their  signatures  under  seal  of 
the  bank,  as  indicated  in  Form  VIII. 

After  the  election  of  officers,  the  directors 
should  call  in  the  subscriptions  to  the  capital 
stock.  One-half  of  the  total  amount  of  the 
proposed  capital  of  the  bank  must  be  paid 
in  (each  shareholder,  or  his  assignee,  being 
required  to  pay  in  not  less  than  one-half  of  the 
amount  of  each  share  subscribed)  before  the 
Comptroller  will  issue  a  certificate  authorizing 
the  bank  to  commence  business.  The  capital 
must  be  paid  in  cash  or  by  check.  Promissory 
notes  or  other  like  evidences  of  debt  may  not 
be  received  for  that  purpose. 

As  soon  as  the  required  amount  is  paid  in,  a 
Certificate  of  Payment,  signed  and  sworn  to 
by  the  President  or  Cashier  and  a  majority  of 
the  directors,  should  be  executed  in  duplicate, 
one  copy  to  be  sent  to  the  Comptroller  of  the 
Currency  and  one  to  be  retained  by  the  bank. 
This  certificate  should  be  substantially  as  given 
in  Form  IX. 

The  law  provides   that  the  payment  of  the 


Deposit   of  Bonds 


remaining  50  per  cent  of  the  capital  stock 
may  be  made  in  not  more  than  five  instalments 
of  10  per  cent  each,  one  at  the  end  of  each  30 
days  succeeding  the  issuance  of  the  Comp- 
troller's certificate  of  authority  to  commence 
business.  If  the  organizers  of  the  bank  desire 
to  provide  for  the  payment  of  the  remainder 
of  the  capital  stock  in  instalments  of  more  than 
10  per  cent  each,  they  may  do  so.  All  of  the 
capital  stock  may,  if  desired,  be  paid  in  advance 
of  the  limit  of  time  required  by  law.  As  each 
instalment  is  paid,  the  payment  must  be  certi- 
fied to  the  Comptroller  by  the  President  or 
Cashier  under  seal  of  the  bank.  This  cer- 
tificate is  given  in  Form  X. 

A  suggestion  for  a  temporary  certificate 
that  may  be  issued  to.  stockholders  upon  the 
payment  of  the  first  instalment  will  be  found  in 
Form  XI. 

On  page  15  is  given  a  method  of  enforcing 
payment  of  capital. 

The  next  step  in  the  bank's  organization  is 
the  deposit  of  bonds  with  the  Treasurer  of  the 
United  States  through  the  oflSce  of  the  Comp- 
troller of  the  Currency.  Every  bank  organized 
under     national     laws    is    required    to    deposit 


Charter   Bonds   Required 


and  keep  with  the  Treasurer  interest-bearing 
government  securities.  These  are  called  Char- 
ter Bonds,  and  their  deposit  with  the  Treasurer 
of  the  United  States  is  one  of  the  things  necessary 
to  be  done  before  a  Certificate  of  Authority  to 
commence  business  will  be  issued.  The  Char- 
ter Bonds  or  others  substituted  for  those  orig- 
inally deposited  must  remain  on  deposit  with  the 
Treasurer  during  the  entire  period  of  the  bank's 
existence. 

The  minimum  amount  of  bonds  necessary  to 
be  deposited  with  the  Treasurer  is  as  follows: 

Capital.  Amount  of  Bonds. 

$150,000  or  less.  One-fourth  of  Capital. 

More  than  $150,000.  Minimum  deposit  of  $50,000. 

The  charter  bonds  deposited  with  the  Treas- 
urer may  be  used  as  a  basis  for  a  like  amount  of 
circulation.  The  taking  out  of  circulation  is, 
however,  not  required. 

Complete  information  regarding  the  method 
of  taking  out  circulation,  the  ordering  of  plates, 
etc.,  will  be  found  in  the  chapter  on  Circula- 
tion on  page  25. 

Upon  the  submission  of  all  papers  incident 
to  organization  and  the  deposit  of  charter  bonds, 
the   Comptroller  of  the   Currency  will  order  a 


10 


Issuance   of   Charter 


special  examination,  and  upon  receipt  of  the 
report  showing  that  the  Association  has  com- 
plied with  all  the  requirements  of  the  law,  and 
that  the  organization  has  been  made  in  good 
faith  for  the  legitimate  objects  contemplated 
by  the  National  Bank  Act,  he  mil  authorize  the 
Association  to  begin  the  business  of  banking. 
The  form  of  the  Certificate  of  Authority  to  begin 
business,  or,  as  it  is  generally  understood,  the 
Charter  issued  to  a  National  Banking  Associa- 
tion, is  given  in  Form  XII.  This  certificate 
gives  to  the  Association  the  right  to  carry  on 
the  business  of  a  national  bank  under  its  ap- 
proved title  for  a  period  of  twenty  years  from 
the  date  of  the  execution  of  the ,  Organization 
Certificate — not  from  the  date  of  the  Comp- 
troller's authorization  to  begin  business,  as  is 
sometimes  assumed. 

The  Certificate  of  Authorization  to  begin 
business  must  be  published  for  a  period  of  sixty 
days  in  each  issue  of  a  newspaper  published  in 
the  city  or  county  in  which  the  bank  is  located, 
or,  if  no  newspaper  is  published  in  such  city  or 
county,  then  in  a  newspaper  published  in  a 
locality  nearest  to  the  place  of  business  of  the 
bank. 

11 


Beginning  Business 


At  the  expiration  of  this  period  of  sixty  days, 
the  bank  must  send  to  the  Comptroller  of  the 
Currency  an  Oath  of  Publication,  similar  to 
Form  XIII,  signed  by  the  publisher  of  the 
newspaper  in  which  the  copy  of  Certificate  has 
appeared. 

It  is  desired  by  the  Comptroller's  office  that 
in  ordering  permanent  stationery,  provision  be 
made  for  the  printing  of  the  Charter  number  of 
the  bank  on  letter  heads. 

Upon  receipt  of  Charter,  or  telegraphic  ad- 
vice of  its  issuance,  the  Association  may  at  once 
enter  actively  into  the  business  of  banking.  The 
Comptroller  should  be  promptly  advised  of  the 
date  on  which  business  actually  begins. 


12 


Qualifications  of  Directors 

A  NY  stockholder  who  is  a  citizen  of  the  United 
/-A  States  and  is  the  possessor  in  his  own  right 
'^  -^  of  at  least  ten  shares  of  the  capital  stock  of 
the  Association  (unless  the  capital  of  the  bank  shall 
not  exceed  $25,000,  in  which  case  he  must  own 
at  least  five  shares)  is  eligible  as  a  director, 
provided  the  stock  be  not  hypothecated  or  in 
any  way  pledged  as  security  for  any  loan  or  debt. 
Should  a  director  cease  to  be  the  absolute  owner 
of  the  required  number  of  shares,  he  becomes 
disqualified  as  a  member  of  the  board;  otherwise 
a  director  holds  office  for  one  year  and  until 
his    successor    is    elected    and    has     qualified. 

It  is  necessary  that  at  least  three-fourths  of 
the  directors  shall  have  resided  for  a  year  or 
more  immediately  preceding  their  election  in  the 
State  or  territory  in  which  the  bank  is  located, 
and  they  must  maintain  such  residence  during 
their  continuance  in  office. 

Each  share  of  stock  held  entitles  the  owner  to 
one  vote  at  any  meeting  of  shareholders. 

Voting  by  proxy  is  permissible  when  the  proxy 
has    been    duly    authorized    in   writing.      The 

13 


Voting  by  Proxy 


practice  of  voting  by  proxy  is  common  at  all 
meetings  of  stockholders  of  National  Banking 
Associations,  and  national  banks  frequently  en- 
close with  their  notices  of  stockholders'  meetings 
blank  proxies  in  favor  of  certain  persons  who 
are  expected  to  be  present  at  the  meeting  and 
who  may  be  relied  upon  to  cast  the  vote  of  the 
shareholder  executing  the  proxy  in  the  manner 
directed  by  him.  A  form  of  proxy  for  use  at  a 
meeting  of  stockholders  of  a  National  Banking 
Association  is  suggested  in  Form  XIV. 

No  oflScer  or  employee  of  the  association  may 
act  as  proxy.  The  Comptroller,  supported  by 
decisions  of  court,  holds  that  a  director  is  an 
oflScer  within  the  meaning  of  this  prohibition. 
No  stockholder  whose  liability  for  subscription 
to  the  capital  stock  is  past  due  and  unpaid  is 
entitled  to  vote  at  a  meeting  of  shareholders. 

Cumulative  voting  is  not  permissible.  That 
is  to  say,  a  stockholder  owning  ten  shares  of 
stock  and  attending  a  meeting  at  which,  say, 
six  directors  are  to  be  elected,  cannot  cast 
sixty  votes  for  any  one  person  as  director.  He 
is  permitted  to  cast  ten  votes  only  for  each  of 
six  candidates. 


14 


Enforcing  Payment  of  Capital 

IF  any  stockholder  or  his  assignee  fails  to  pay 
any  instalment  of  the  capital  stock  when  such 
payment  is  due,  the  directors  of  the  associa- 
tion may  sell  the  stock  at  public  auction  after 
three  weeks'  notice  of  the  proposed  sale  has  been 
given  in  each  issue  of  a  newspaper  published  in 
the  city  or  county  in  which  the  bank  is  located. 
The  stock  shall  be  sold  for  not  less  than  the 
amount  due,  together  with  the  expense  of  the 
advertisement  and  sale.  If  the  sum  offered  by 
the  highest  bidder  be  more  than  the  amount  due 
on  the  stock  and  the  expense  of  advertisement 
and  sale,  the  excess  must  be  paid  to  the  original 
stockholder.  If  it  is  not  possible  to  sell  the  stock 
for  a  sum  sufficient  to  cover  the  instalment  due 
and  the  expenses  of  the  sale,  the  amount  already 
paid  by  the  stockholder  is  forfeited  to  the  asso- 
ciation. The  stock  must  then  be  sold  within 
six  months  from  the  time  of  forfeiture  in  such 
manner  as  may  be  ordered  by  the  directors. 
If  the  stock  is  not  sold,  it  must  be  cancelled 

15 


Cancelled  Stock 


and  deducted  from  the  capital  stock  of  the  asso- 
ciation. 

If  stock  is  cancelled  and  deducted  from  the 
capital,  as  provided  in  the  foregoing  paragraph, 
in  an  amount  which  reduces  the  capital  below 
the  minimum  required  by  law  (as  given  in  the 
table  on  page  3),  it  becomes  necessary  to  in- 
crease the  capital  stock  to  the  required  amount. 
If  the  increase  is  not  made  within  thirty  days, 
the  Comptroller  has  power  to  appoint  a  receiver 
to  close  up  the  business  of  the  association. 


16 


Conversion  of  State  Banks 

A  BANK  or  banking  institution,  organized 
and  operating  under  state  laws,  may 
be  made  a  national  bank  by  conversion, 
or  changed  to  a  national  bank  by  reorganiza- 
tion. The  change  may  be  accomplished  in 
either  of  two  ways: 

First.  The  owners  of  two-thirds  of  the  capi- 
tal stock  of  the  bank  may  authorize  a  majority 
of  the  directors  to  execute  Articles  of  Associa- 
tion, an  Organization  Certificate  and  all  other 
papers  and  to  do  whatever  is  required  in  chang- 
ing and  converting  the  bank  into  a  national 
association,  or 

Second.  A  state  bank  may  be  placed  in 
voluntary  liquidation  in  conformity  with  the 
laws  of  the  state  in  which  it  is  located.  A 
national  bank  may  then  be  organized  by  those 
interested  and  the  new  organization  will  have 
the  power  to  purchase  such  assets  of  the  state 
bank  as  a  national  bank  is  not  prohibited  to 
hold. 

Specifically  prohibited   assets  are  real  estate 

17 


Application  to  Comptroller 


other  than  banking  premises,  loans  collateraled 
by  real  estate,  stocks  of  other  corporations,  and 
any  loan  in  excess  of  10  per  cent  of  the  actually 
paid-in  and  unimpaired  capital  and  the  unim- 
paired surplus  combined,  the  aggregate,  how- 
ever, in  no  case  to  exceed  30  per  cent  of  the 
capital  stock. 

When  a  state  bank  is  to  enter  the  national 
system  by  conversion,  an  application  from  the 
directors  in  accordance  with  Form  XV  is  re- 
quired, reciting  the  intent  to  convert,  the  title 
and  location,  and  the  title  desired  upon  con- 
version. This  may  be  the  existing  title  of  the 
bank  with  the  addition  of  the  word  "national" 
or  with  such  other  changes  as  may  be  desired, 
and  must  be  approved  by  the  Comptroller. 
The  capital  must  be  paid  in  and  unimpaired, 
and  the  application  must  contain  an  agreement 
that  any  assets  which  cannot  be  held  legally 
by  a  national  bank  will  be  disposed  of  prior 
to  the  issuance  of  a  certificate  authorizing  the 
bank  to  begin  business  as  a  National  Banking 
Association.  In  case  of  reorganization  of  a 
national  bank  an  application  must  be  submitted 
in  the  same  form  as  that  required  in  connection 
with  the  organization  of  an  absolutely  new  bank. 

18 


Execution  of   Blanks 


Form  XVI  gives  a  general  type  of  authority 
for  conversion  of  a  state  bank.  The  signatures 
or  authorization  by  vote  of  the  owners  of  at 
least  two-thirds  of  the  stock  of  the  State  bank 
must  appear  on  this  document. 

Upon  the  receipt  of  the  Comptroller's  approval 
of  the  proposed  conversion,  the  directors  should 
transmit  the  authority  for  conversion  and  exe- 
cute Articles  of  Association  substantially  as 
given  in  Form  XVII. 

The  directors  should  also  execute  an  Organi- 
zation Certificate  in  accordance  with  Form 
XVIII,  and  a  certificate  similar  to  Form  XIX, 
showing  what  amount  of  paid-in  and  unimpaired 
capital  the  institution  has.  They  should  also 
take  and  transmit  their  oaths  as  directors  to- 
gether with  the  signatures  of  oflScers  and  an 
order  for  circulation. 

It  should  be  noted  in  this  connection  that  the  capital  of  a  state 
bank  which  purposes  converting  into  a  national  bank  must  be 
paid  in  full  before  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  will  issue  a 
certificate  authorizing  the  bank  to  begin  business  as  a  national 
association.  That  is  to  say,  a  state  bank  converting  may  not  take 
advantage  of  the  provision  permitting  the  payment  of  50  per  cent 
of  the  capital  on  organizing  and  the  remainder  in  instalments  fol- 
lowing the  issuance  of  the  charter. 

19 


Comptroller's  Certificate 


A  bank  which  is  the  outcome  of  a  conversion  may,  under  the 
law,  issue  new  stock  certificates  having  a  par  value  of  more  or  less 
than  $100,  provided  the  par  value  of  the  stock  certificates  of  the 
state  bank  before  conversion  into  a  national  bank  has  been  more 
or  less  than  that  amount.  That  is,  the  shares  may  continue  to  be 
for  the  same  amount  each  as  they  were  in  the  state  bank. 

The  issuance  of  new  certificates  of  stock  is  not 
mandatory  though  desirable.  Shareholders 
otherwise  qualified  and  owning  ten  or  five  shares, 
as  required  by  law,  regardless  of  the  par  value 
of  the  shares,  are  eligible  as  directors  of  a  con- 
verted bank. 

After  the  Comptroller  has  received  the  con- 
version papers,  properly  executed,  together  with 
the  required  amount  of  charter  bonds,  and 
report  of  examination  showing  the  bank  to  be 
in  a  satisfactory  condition  and  that  all  require- 
ments have  been  met,  he  will  issue  a  certificate 
similar  to  Form  XII,  authorizing  the  bank  to 
begin  business  as  a  national  banking  associa- 
tion. This  certificate  must  be  published  in 
accordance  with  the  requirements  for  the  pub- 
lication of  the  charter  of  a  bank  organized  from 
the  beginning. 


20 


Reorganization  of  Private  Banks 

THE  law  does  not  provide  for  the  con- 
version of  private  banks  into  national 
banks.  If  it  is  desired  to  effect  a  re- 
organization, as  in  the  case  of  a  state  bank 
liquidated  for  that  purpose,  an  organization 
from  the  beginning  must  be  undertaken  as  pro- 
vided in  the  chapter  on  Detailed  Steps  in 
Organization. 

If  the  owners  of  a  private  bank  desire  to 
engage  in  banking  under  the  national  system, 
they  are  subject  to  the  same  regulations  as  those 
provided  for  the  organization  of  a  new  bank, 
and  the  method  of  procedure  is  exactly  similar 
to  that  provided  under  the  second  method  of 
reorganization  of  state  banks.  That  is  to  say, 
they  must  require  the  payment  in  cash  of  the 
entire  capital  stock  and  must  submit  to  the 
office  of  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  a 
statement  signed  by  their  directors  to  the  effect 
that,  after  receiving  charter,  in  acquiring  assets 
from  the  closed  private  bank  they  will  not  pur- 
chase or  otherwise  acquire  any  items  specifically 
prohibited  by  the  National  Bank  Act.* 

*See  last  paragraph  page  17  for  items  specifically  prohibited. 

21 


Consolidation 

CONSOLIDATION  of  national  banks 
may  be  effected  in  three  ways: 
First.  Without  increase  of  capital. 
Under  this  method  the  directors  of  the  absorb- 
ing bank  may  enter  into  a  contract  with  the 
directors  or  agents  of  another  institution  to 
purchase  its  assets,  assume  liabilities  to  depos- 
itors and  other  creditors,  and  to  pay  shareholders 
for  their  stock  interests  an  amount  equal  to  the 
value  of  assets  purchased  in  excess  of  liabilities 
assumed  to  depositors  and  other  creditors.  It  is 
necessary,  in  order  to  effect  a  consolidation  under 
this  method,  to  place  the  bank  to  be  absorbed  in 
voluntary  liquidation.  Any  expenses  incident  to 
liquidation  are  to  be  deducted  from  the  amount 
paid  to  the  shareholders  of  the  liquidating  bank 
for  their  stock  interests. 

Second.  By  an  increase  of  capital  stock  of 
the  absorbing  bank,  the  increase  being  equal  to 
the  capital  stock  of  the  liquidating  bank.  Un- 
der this  method  the  additional  shares  of  the 
absorbing  bank  may  be  sold  to  shareholders  of 

22 


Payment   of   Capital 


the  bank  to  be  liquidated,  provided  the  consent 
of  the  shareholders  of  the  absorbing  association 
has  been  previously  obtained.  As  the  payment 
of  capital  originally  or  on  account  of  increase 
must  necessarily  be  made  in  money,  and  not  in 
promissory  notes  or  other  ''evidences  of  debt," 
the  Comptroller  does  not  recognize  the  right  of 
those  having  the  consolidation  in  charge  to 
accept  shares  of  the  liquidated  institution  and 
issue  in  exchange  therefor  certificates  of  the 
absorbing  bank.  In  effecting  a  consolidation 
under  this  second  method,  therefore,  share- 
holders of  the  closed  association  must  be  paid 
the  value  of  their  stock,  less  the  expenses  of 
liquidation,  in  money.  The  proceeds  thus  re- 
ceived are  then  available  in  payment  of  the  shares 
in  the  absorbing  bank  to  which  the  former 
holders  of  shares  in  the  liquidated  bank  may  be 
entitled. 

The  right  of  shareholders  to  participate  pro 
rata  in  an  increase  of  stock  is  well  recognized, 
and  is  generally  incorporated  in  the  Articles  of 
Association  of  national  banks.  In  order  to 
avoid  possible  litigation  over  this  point,  it  is 
customary  to  secure  from  shareholders  of  the 
absorbing  association  waivers  of  right  to  partici- 

23 


Consolidation   by   Liquidation 


pate.  The  directors  of  the  absorbing  bank 
are  then  at  liberty  to  contract  for  the  purchase 
of  assets  and  to  assume  HabiHties  to  depositors 
and  other  creditors  of  the  Hquidating  bank. 

Third.  A  third  method,  and  one  which  is 
occasionally  pursued,  is  to  place  both  of  the 
interested  banks  in  voluntary  liquidation,  or- 
ganize anew  under  a  different  corporate  title, 
and  acquire  the  business  of  the  liquidating 
associations  in  the  manner  outlined  under  the 
second  method.  This  plan  of  procedure  enables 
the  incorporators  to  place  the  stock  as  they  may 
determine. 

In  any  event,  one  of  the  banks  interested  in 
consolidation  must  be  placed  in  liquidation, 
but  the  corporate  name  of  the  absorbing  bank 
may  be  changed  to  indicate  that  there  has  been 
a  consolidation  of  two  banks.  For  instance, 
**The  Citizens  Central  National  Bank"  would 
indicate  the  consolidation  of  "The  Citizens 
National  "and  "The  Central  National"  banks. 
The  change  of  name  may  be  effected  in  accord- 
ance with  the  plan  given  on  page  127. 


24 


National  Bank  Note  Circulation 

EVERY  national  bank  may  issue  circu- 
lating notes  to  the  amount  of  its  paid-in 
capital.  These  notes  are  based  upon 
interest-bearing  United  States  Government  bonds 
equal  in  face  value  to  the  amount  of  the  notes  to 
be  issued. 

A  national  bank  note 

Is  not  legal  tender. 

Is  not  receivable  for  customs. 

Is  not  applicable  for  payment  of  interest  on  the 

national  debt. 
Is  not  counted  in  the  reserve  of  a  national  bank. 

With  these  exceptions  it  has  the  ordinary 
qualities  of  money. 

A  bank  desiring  to  take  out  circulation  should 
send  to  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  (to- 
gether with  a  letter  stating  the  purpose  of  the 
deposit)  the  necessary  bonds,  to  be  placed  by 
him  in  the  custody  of  the  Treasurer,  who  gives 
a  receipt  in  duplicate,  one  of  which  is  sent  to  the 
bank,  and  the  other  retained  by  the  Comptroller. 
The   bonds   required    as   a   preliminary   to   the 

25 


Registered  Bonds  Required 


granting  of  tlie  bank's  charter  may  be  counted 
as  a  part  of  this  deposit,  as  the  law  permits  the 
issuance  of  circulation  against  charter  bonds. 

As  the  deposit  of  charter  bonds  is  necessary 
to  complete  an  organization  and  secure  a 
charter  number,  and  as  this  charter  number  is 
printed  on  the  notes,  it  is  not  possible  for  a  bank 
to  obtain  its  original  order  for  circulation 
immediately  on  deposit  of  its  bonds.  If  a  bank 
desires  to  take  out  circulation  against  its  charter 
bonds,  it  should  send  to  the  Comptroller,  when 
forwarding  them,  an  order  for  the  amount  of 
circulation  desired.  The  blank  for  ordering 
circulation  will  be  found  in  Form  XX.  After  a 
bank  is  organized  and  doing  business  it  may 
order  circulation  printed  in  advance  and  not 
make  a  bond  deposit  until  it  is  ready  to  receive 
the  new  notes  from  the  Comptroller  and  put 
them  into  circulation.  Supplementary  orders 
for  circulation  may  be  made  in  accordance  with 
Form  XXI. 

The  bonds  deposited  as  security  for  circula- 
tion must  be  in  registered  form.  Should  a  bank 
have  coupon  bonds,  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury 
will  exchange  for  them  registered  bonds.  The 
only  expense  incident  to  such  an  exchange  is  the 

26 


Dejjosit   of  Bonds 


cost  of  transportation,  which  must  be  paid  by 
the  bank. 

The  bonds  should  be  assigned  in  the  proper 
form    on    the    back    to    the   "Treasurer  of  the 

United   States  in   trust  for  The    

National  Bank  of   ."      The  bank 

surrenders  title  to  them,  the  Treasurer  holding 
them  in  trust  primarily  for  the  purpose  of 
securing  the  redemption  of  the  bank's  circula- 
tion. In  case  a  bank  fails  to  redeem  any  of  its 
notes  on  demand,  the  Comptroller  of  the  Cur- 
rency is  empowered  to  appoint  a  receiver,  sell 
the  bonds,  and  with  the  proceeds  of  the  bond 
sale  redeem  the  bank's  outstanding  circulation. 

Should  the  market  value  of  any  of  the  bonds 
deposited  as  security  for  circulation  fall  below 
the  amount  of  circulation  secured  thereby,  the 
Comptroller  may  demand  enough  more  bonds 
or  legal  tender  to  protect  fully  the  circulating 
notes  that  have  been  issued. 

A  bank  desiring  to  substitute  one  issue  of 
bonds  for  another  must  have  the  authority  of 
its  Board  of  Directors.  An  application  should 
then  be  made  to  the  Comptroller,  accompanied 
by  a  copy  of  the  directors'  resolution  under  seal 
of   the   bank,  together  with   the   receipt   of   the 

27 


Substituting  Bonds 


Treasurer  for  the  bonds  which  it  is  desired  to 

withdraw  or  substitute.  As  this  receipt  must 
accompany  an  appHcation  to  substitute  one 
issue  of  bonds  for  another,  it  is  very  important 
that  it  be  filed  where  readily  obtainable.  If  the 
receipt  be  lost  or  misplaced,  considerable  delay 
may  result  in  making  a  substitution.  Suggestions 
for  directors'  resolutions  authorizing  exchanges 
will   be  found  in  Forms  XXII  and  XXIII. 

A  bank  depositing  bonds  with  the  Treasurer 
of  the  United  States  as  security  for  circulation 
will  be  given  a  power  of  attorney  by  the  Comp- 
troller of  the  Currency  to  receive  the  interest  as 
it  accrues.  The  bank  will  receive  the  interest 
until  the  bonds  are  withdrawn  unless  it  fails  to 
pay  the  tax  on  circulation,  to  redeem  its  notes 
on  demand,  to  pay  the  penalty  for  failure  to 
make  reports  required  by  the  Comptroller  of  the 
Currency,  to  pay  instalments  on  account  of 
capital  stock,  or  fails  to  make  good  an  impair- 
ment of  capital. 

Every  national  bank  must,  by  law,  accept  the 
notes  of  every  other  national  bank  at  their  par 
value.* 


*  The  only  national  banks  that  are  not,  by  law,  required  to  accept  the 
notes  of  every  other  national  bank,  are  "gold  banks."  Gold  banks  may 
be  organized  for  the  purpose  of  issuing  circulating  notes  specifically  pay- 

28 


Issues   Available    for    Circulation 

The  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  will  accept 
any  unmatured  issue  of  United  States  bonds  to 
secure  circulation.  At  present  there  are  four 
such  issues  available: 

2%  Consols  payable  after  1930. 

2%  Panama  Canal  bonds  payable  after  1936  and  1938. 

3%  bonds  payable  after  1908. 

4%  bonds  payable  after  1925. 

After  a  bank  has  deposited  its  bonds  and 
ordered  its  circulation,  the  Comptroller  will 
have  plates  engraved  and  the  notes  printed. 
There  are  four  kinds  of  plates,  one  of  $5  denomi- 
nation with  four  notes,  one  of  $10  with  four 
notes,  another  of  $10  and  $20  with  four  notes, 
and  a  fourth  of  $50  and  $100  with  two  notes. 
These  plates  are  made  at  the  expense  of  the 
issuing  bank.  To  prevent  the  loss  of  plates  or 
the  illegal  issuing  of  notes,  the  plates  are  kept 
in  the  custody  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 

The  cost  for  engraving  a  plate  with  four  notes 
is  $75  and  with  two  notes,  $50.  No  charge  is 
made  for  the  printing  of  notes. 

able  in  gold  coin  of  the  United  States.  They  are  incorporated  in  a  man- 
ner similar  to  all  national  banks,  and  differ  only  in  the  note  issuing 
feature.  Gold  banks  must  deposit  with  the  Treasurer  of  the  United 
States  interest-bearing  government  bonds  and  can  then  issue  circulation 
payable  in  gold  coin  of  the  United  States  to  an  amoiuit  equal  to  80  per 
cent  of  the  face  value  of  the  bonds.  There  are  none  of  these  associations 
in  existence  at  the  present  time;  therefore,  the  regulation  is  practically 
obsolete. 

29 


Ordering  Circulation 


It  takes  about  forty  clays  to  secure  the  first 
order  of  circulating  notes.  To  get  a  future 
order  will  take  about  twenty  days,  the  time  for 
the  first  order  being  longer  because  of  the  neces- 
sity for  engraving  plates. 

When  ordering  circulation  in  accordance  with 
the  Comptroller's  form,  it  must  be  remembered 
that  the  order  is  in  sheets  with  a  certain  number 
of  notes  on  each  sheet,  and  the  order  should  be 
for  amounts  that  can  be  made  from  multiples  of 
such  amounts.  It  must  also  be  taken  into  con- 
sideration that  only  one-third  of  the  total  amount 
of  notes  ordered  may  be  in  five-dollar  denomina- 
tion. For  instance:  a  bank  capitalized  at 
$25,000,  which  deposits  one-quarter  of  that 
amount  in  government  bonds,  is  entitled  to 
secure  $6,250  of  circulation.  As  only  one-third 
of  a  bank's  circulation  may  be  in  five-dollar 
notes,  the  total  amount  of  circulation  ordered 
should  be  divided  in  such  a  manner  that  the 
proper  number  of  sheets  may  be  printed.  That 
is,  a  bank  having  the  privilege  of  issuing  $6,250 
in  circulating  notes  (only  one-third  of  which  may 
be  in  five-dollar  notes),  might  order  100  sheets  of 
five-dollar  notes,  which,  while  it  would  not  be  the 
actual  limit  allowed,  would  be  a  round  amount; 

30 


Supplementary    Orders 


it  might  order  forty  sheets  in  ten  and  twenty- 
dollar  notes,  and,  say,  fifteen  sheets  in  fifty 
and  one  hundred-dollar  notes.  This  would 
make  the  $6,250  of  notes  desired  and  would 
permit  of  the  correct  number  of  sheets  being 
printed.  Unless  five-dollar  notes  are  desired 
only  one  plate  is  necessary,  otherwise  two  at 
least  will  be  required. 

The  original  order  for  circulation,  however, 
should  be  about  one  and  one-half  times  the 
amount  of  circulation  that  can  be  taken  out 
against  the  bonds  that  have  been  deposited. 
If  a  bank  is  permitted  to  take  out  $6,250  of 
circulation,  it  should  place  an  order  for  approxi- 
mately $9,375.  The  reason  for  this  is  that  it  is 
necessary  for  the  Comptroller  to  have  on  hand 
enough  notes  to  replace  without  delay  any  worn- 
out  or  mutilated  circulation  sent  in  for  redemp- 
tion, and  to  keep  a  stock  on  hand  equal  to  50 
per  cent  of  the  capital  of  each  bank,  as  required 
by  the  Act  of  May  30,  1908.  Banks  are  not  re- 
quired to  make  supplementary  orders  for  circu- 
lation unless  they  intend  to  increase  their  bond 
deposit  and  take  out  additional  circulation  in 
accordance  with  the  law  of  May  30,  1908,  which 

31 


Delivery   of  Notes 


requires  the  Comptroller  to  keep  a  stock  of 
incomplete  notes  on  hand. 

Circulating  notes  are  shipped  to  the  issuing 
bank  at  its  own  expense.  Unless  otherwise 
instructed,  the  Comptroller  will  ship  these  notes 
under  a  contract  which  the  Treasury  Depart- 
ment has  with  the  United  States  Express 
Company.  If  desired,  however,  arrangements 
may  be  made  by  the  correspondents  of  The 
National  City  Bank  to  have  their  notes  sent  to 
them  by  registered  mail  insured.  This  work  is 
in  charge  of  the  Riggs  National  Bank  of  Wash- 
ington, and  it  is  necessary  for  the  bank  wishing 
this  service  to  be  performed  to  execute  a  power 
of  attorney  in  order  to  have  the  notes  delivered 
to  the  Riggs  National  Bank  for  shipment.  [See 
Form  XXIV].  In  many  cases  a  considerable 
saving  can  be  made  by  shipping  these  notes  by 
registered  mail  insured  instead  of  by  express. 

Notes  when  received  are  ready  for  circulation 
w^ith  the  exception  of  the  signatures  of  the  Presi- 
dent or  Vice-President  and  Cashier.  It  was 
formerly  held  that  written  signatures  on  notes 
were  necessary,  but,  while  the  Department  has 
not  authorized  or  sanctioned  any  change  in  this 
respect,  no  exception  is  now  made  to  printed  or 

32 


Signing  Notes 


stamped  signatures  as  distinguished  from  written 
signatures.  It  should  be  noted  in  this  connec- 
tion that  all  national  bank  notes  issued  to  or 
received  by  a  bank  are  subject  to  redemption 
whether  or  not  they  are  signed  by  the  ojSficers  of 
the  association. 

Whether  written  or  stamped,  the  signatures 
appearing  on  the  notes  must  be  those  of  the 
President  or  Vice-President  and  Cashier  of  the 
bank.  Neither  an  acting  President  or  Vice- 
President,  nor  an  Assistant  or  acting  Cashier,  is 
authorized  to  sign  circulating  notes. 


3J 


National  Bank  Note  Circulation 

(continued) 

IMMEDIATELY  after  a  bank  receives  its 
first  circulation  from  the  Comptroller,  it  is 
required  to  deposit  with  the  Treasurer  of 
the  United  States,  as  a  redemption  fund,  a  sum 
of  lawful  money  equal  to  5  per  cent  of  its  cir- 
culation. 

Remittances  for  credit  of  the  5  per  cent 
redemption  fund  may  be  made — 

By  check  drawn  on  New  York  payable  to  the  "Assistant 
Treasurer  of  the  United  States  in  New  York,"  collectible  through 
the  Clearing  House,  forwarded  to  the  Assistant  Treasurer  with 
instructions  to  deposit  the  amount  to  the  credit  of  the  5  per  cent 
fund  and  to  forward  the  certificate  of  deposit  to  the  Treasurer  of 
the  United  States. 

By  a  deposit  of  lawful  money  with  the  Assistant  Treasurer  of 
the  United  States  in  Baltimore,  Boston,  Chicago,  Cincinnati,  New 
Orleans,  New  York,  Philadelphia,  St.  Louis,  or  San  Francisco, 
on  account  of  the  5  per  cent  fund.  Banks  not  located  in  a  city 
where  there  is  a  Sub-Treasury  can  request  their  correspondent 
to  make  the  necessary  deposit.  The  certificate  that  is  received 
for  the  deposit  must  be  forwarded  immediately  to  the  Treasurer 
of  the  United  States  as  no  credit  will  be  given  until  he  receives 
such  certificate. 

34 


Redemption    Fund   Remittances 

By  sending  direct  to  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States, 
Washington,  D.  C,  the  proper  amount  of  lawful  money.  This 
package  if  specifically  marked  "for  the  credit  of  the  5  per  cent 
fund"  will  be  transmitted  by  express  companies  at  government 
rates.  If  the  bank  does  not  prepay  the  express  charges,  the 
Treasurer  will  pay  them  at  Government  rates  and  deduct  the 
amount  from  the  bank's  remittance. 

The  Assistant  Treasurers  of  the  United  States 
are  authorized  to  receive  deposits  of  la\\-ful 
money  directly  from  banks  on  account  of  their 
5  per  cent  fund.  They  are  not  authorized  to 
receive  remittances  by  express  and  the  only 
Assistant  Treasurer  who  can  receive  checks  on 
that  account  is  the  one  at  New  York. 

A  bank  which  is  not  located  in  a  city  where 
there  is  an  Assistant  Treasurer  of  the  United 
States  may  have  its  correspondent  in  Baltimore, 
Boston,  Chicago,  Cincinnati,  New  Orleans,  New 
York,  Philadelphia,  San  Francisco  or  St.  Louis, 
make  a  deposit  with  the  local  Assistant  Treas- 
urer for  its  account,  or  its  correspondent  at 
Washington  may  make  a  deposit  at  the  Treasury 
Department.  A  bank  in  one  of  the  Sub- 
Treasury  cities,  which  makes  a  deposit  with  the 
x\ssistant  Treasurer  for  the  credit  of  the  5  per 
cent  fund  of  an  out-of-town  bank,  receives  a 
Certificate  of  Deposit  which  in  turn  it  should 

35 


Redemption  Fund 


forward  to  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States. 
Upon  receipt  by  the  Treasurer  of  this  Certificate 
of  Deposit,  the  5  per  cent  fund  will  be  credited 
and  the  out-of-town  bank  will  receive  direct 
notification  from  the  Department.  The  Treas- 
urer's acknowledgment  of  a  deposit  for  credit  of 
this  5  per  cent  fund  is  made  only  to  the  bank 
whose  5  per  cent  fund  is  so  credited.  When 
another  bank  makes  the  deposit  on  account  of  a 
bank  whose  fund  is  to  be  credited,  the  depositing 
bank  receives  no  acknowledgment. 

A  national  bank  cannot  count  in  its  lawful 
reserve  any  deposit  held  by  the  Treasurer  in 
excess  of  the  amount  required  for  its  5  per  cent 
fund. 

The  Redemption  Fund  is  used  by  the  Treas- 
urer in  redeeming  notes  presented  to  him.  The 
amount  of  the  Redemption  Fund  is  calculated 
on  the  amount  of  notes  issued  to  a  bank,  and  no 
deduction  is  made  should  all  or  part  of  such 
notes  be  lost,  stolen,  or  put  into  circulation 
without  the  signature  of  the  President  or  Vice- 
President  and  Cashier. 

Notes  must  be  presented  to  the  Treasurer 
for  redemption  in  sums  of  $1,000  or  any  mul- 
tiple.   Upon  receipt  they  are  sent  to  the  National 

36 


Presenting  Notes 


Bank  Redemption  Agency  of  the  Treasurer's 
office,  and  are  there  assorted  and  redeemed. 

A  bank  sending  notes  should  first  have  them 
assorted  by  denominations  and  enclosed  in  paper 
straps.  No  strap  should  contain  more  than  one 
hundred  notes,  and  each  package  should  be 
marked  with  the  amount  of  its  contents.  A 
memorandum  giving  the  amount  of  each  denomi- 
nation of  notes,  the  total  amount  in  the  package, 
the  address  of  the  bank  sending,  and  the  dispo- 
sition to  be  made  of  the  proceeds,  should  be 
enclosed  with  each  package,  and  a  letter  of 
advice  sent  by  mail.  All  packages  should  be 
sent  to  the  "Treasurer  of  the  United  States, 
Washington,  D.  C,"  and  should  have  the 
wrapper  plainly  marked  with  the  bank's  name 
and  address.  Such  packages  should  be  sent 
"collect"  under  "Government  Contract  with  the 
United  States  Express  Company." 

The  Treasurer,  on  redeeming  the  notes, 
charges  them  to  the  various  issuing  banks,  and 
notifies  such  banks  on  the  first  day  of  each 
month,  or  oftener,  of  the  amount  of  their  notes 
so  redeemed  and  the  corresponding  reduction 
of  their  5  per  cent  funds.  When  a  bank  receives 
such  notification,  it  must  immediately  deposit 

37  . 


Washington   Representative 


with  the  Treasurer  lawful  money  equal  to  the 
amount  of  its  redeemed  notes,  thus  keeping  the 
5  per  cent  fund  intact. 

If  the  amount  redeemed  does  not  exceed  the 
5  per  cent  fund  of  a  bank,  the  notes  fit  for  circu- 
lation are  promptly  forwarded  to  the  issuing 
bank  by  express,  and  any  notes  unfit  for  circu- 
lation are  delivered  on  the  same  day  to  the 
Comptroller  of  the  Currency.  If  a  bank's  5 
per  cent  fund  is  overdrawn  by  such  redemption, 
an  amount  of  notes  equal  to  the  deficit  is  held  by 
the  Treasurer  until  the  bank  makes  good  the 
fund  by  a  deposit  of  lawful  money.  As  soon  as 
this  is  done,  all  the  fit  notes  are  returned  to  the 
issuing  bank  and  the  remainder  delivered  to  the 
Comptroller  for  destruction  and  the  issuance  of 
new  notes. 

Every  national  bank  is  compelled,  by  law,  to 
have  in  Washington  a  legal  representative  to 
witness  the  destruction  of  its  mutilated  currency. 

The  National  City  Bank,  through  its  rela- 
tions with  the  Riggs  National  Bank  of  Washing- 
ton, is  in  a  position  to  have  these  services  prop- 
erly performed  for  its  correspondents,  and  makes 
no  charge  to  them  for  such  service. 

Should  a  bank  reduce  its  circulation,  either 

38 


Expense   of  Redemption 


by  depositing  lawful  money  or  by  permitting 
notes  to  be  redeemed  by  the  Treasurer  and 
destroyed  and  asking  for  no  new  notes  to  take 
their  place,  the  amount  of  the  5  per  cent  fund 
may  be  correspondingly  reduced.  In  such  a 
case  the  Treasurer  will,  upon  receiving  the  proper 
advice,  surrender  any  excess  in  the  5  per  cent 
fund-  that  may  result  from  such  reduction  or 
destruction  of  notes.  The  Treasurer  will  not  so 
release  a  portion  of  the  5  per  cent  fund  until 
the  details  of  the  reduction  of  circulation  are 
completed  by  depositing  lawful  money  and  with- 
drawing the  bonds. 

A  national  bank  must  pay  the  charges  for  trans- 
portation and  the  cost  for  assorting  redeemed 
notes.  At  the  end  of  each  fiscal  year,  account 
having  been  kept  of  its  expenses  by  the  National 
Bank  Redemption  Agency,  the  several  banks 
are  assessed  in  proportion  to  the  amount  of  their 
notes  redeemed,  and  this  sum  is  then  charged  to 
their  5  per  cent  accounts.  If  a  bank  deposits 
lawful  money  for  the  retirement  of  its  circu- 
lation, it  is  assessed  at  the  time  it  makes  such  a 
deposit  for  the  cost  of  transporting  and  redeem- 
ing the  notes  then  outstanding.  The  assessment 
is  equal  to  the  average  cost  of  the  redemption 


Tax   on    Circulation 


of  national  bank  notes  during  the  preceding 
year.  When  a  bank  is  notified  of  an  assessment, 
it  should  immediately  remit  the  amount  due. 

Banks  taking  out  circulation  are  subject  to 
a  tax  on  the  average  amount  of  circulation 
outstanding.  This  tax  is  payable  semi- 
annually and  is  at  the  rate  of  1  per  cent  per 
annum  in  all  cases  except  where  the  circulation 
is  secured  by  deposits  of  the  2  per  cent  Consols 
of  1930  and  the  2  per  cent  Panama  Canal  Bonds. 
On  circulation  secured  by  2  per  cent  bonds,  the 
tax  is  at  the  rate  of  J  of  1  per  cent  per  annum. 
If  the  notes  are  secured  by  a  deposit  of  2  per  cent 
bonds,  J  of  1  per  cent  of  the  daily  average  will 
be  the  semi-annual  tax,  and  if  on  the  other  issues, 
^  of  1  per  cent  for  each  half  year  period. 

The  Treasurer,  when  levying  the  tax,  takes  as 
a  basis  the  average  amount  of  notes  that  a  bank 
has  had  in  circulation  during  the  six  months 
previous  to  the  assessment  date.  This  estimate 
must  be  made  by  each  bank  and  submitted, 
under  the  oath  of  the  President  or  Cashier, 
within  ten  days  from  the  first  of  January  and 
July. 

If  a  bank  fails  to  make  a  proper  report  on 
the  average  amount  of  circulation  it  has  had 

40 


Computing  Tax 


outstanding  for  a  period  of  six  months,  it  is 
liable  to  a  fine  of  $200,  and  the  tax  which  must 
be  paid  by  the  bank  is  assessed  on  the  amount 
of  notes  that  has  been  delivered  by  the  Comp- 
troller, instead  of  upon  the  average  amount  in 
circulation. 

Liability  for  tax  begins  on  the  first  days  of 
January  and  July  in  each  year,  unless  a  bank 
should  not  at  that  time  have  any  circulation 
outstanding.  In  the  latter  case,  the  liability 
begins  with  the  date  of  the  first  issue  of  notes, 
and  terminates  on  the  thirtieth  day  of  June 
or  the  thirty-first  day  of  December,  depending 
on  whether  it  will  be  the  first  or  the  last  six 
months  of  the  year. 

A  bank  can  calculate  the  average  amount  of 
notes  it  has  in  circulation  during  a  period  of 
say  six  months,  by  taking  the  amount  it  has 
outstanding  each  day  for  the  particular  period, 
adding  these  amounts  together  and  dividing  by 
the  exact  number  of  days. 

Should  a  bank  not  keep  a  daily  record  of  out- 
standing circulation,  but  obtain  its  averages  from 
weekly  statements,  it  should  pursue  the  same 
course  as  would  a  bank  having  daily  records.  In- 
stead   of    adding    the    amounts    of    circulation 

41 


Depositing  Tax 


outstanding  daily,  it  should  add  together  the 
amounts  of  circulation  outstanding  weekly,  and 
divide  by  the  number  of  weeks,  instead  of 
the  number  of  days  in  the  period.  If  there  is 
any  fraction  of  a  week,  the  amount  that  should 
be  added  for  each  day  of  such  a  fraction  is  one- 
seventh  of  the  balance  for  the  week  immediately 
preceding  the  odd  number  of  days.  Banks 
whose  circulation  is  not  subject  to  a  tax  for  the 
entire  half  year,  if  estimates  are  made  from 
daily  balances,  should  divide  the  total  of  those 
balances  by  the  number  of  days  in  the  half  year, 
and  banks  w^iich  make  their  estimates  from 
weekly  balances  should  divide  the  total  by  the 
number  of  weeks  and  fraction  of  a  week  in  the 
half  year.  The  tax  computed  on  the  result  will 
be  at  the  full  semi-annual  rate. 

The  Treasurer  of  the  United  States,  shortly 
before  the  tax  on  circulation  is  payable,  sends 
to  each  national  bank,  in  duplicate,  the  blank 
given  in  Form  XXV.  This  blank  should  be 
filled  out  and  sent  back  to  the  Treasurer  (not 
to  the  Comptroller)  wuthin  the  ten  days  follow- 
ing the  dates  on  which  the  circulation  tax  is  due. 
The  duplicate  is  kept  in  the  bank's  files. 

A  bank  may  pay  the  amount  of  tax  assessed 


Corporation   Excise   Tax 


on  its  circulating  notes  to  the  Treasurer  of  the 
United  States  or  to  any  Assistant  Treasurer  or 
National  Bank  Depositary.  When  payment  is 
made  certificates  are  issued  in  triplicate.  The 
original  should  be  immediately  forwarded  to 
the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  the  duplicate  to 
the  Treasurer  and  the  triplicate  should  be  held 
by  the  bank  as  a  voucher.  This  certificate 
must  state  specifically  that  the  deposit  is  made 
on  account  of  the  semi-annual  circulation  tax. 
Should  there  not  be  a  depositary  convenient  to  a 
bank,  payment  may  be  made  by  draft  on  New 
York,  which  must,  however,  be  collectible 
through  the  Clearing  House.  Drafts  should 
be  made  to  the  order  of  the  Treasurer  of  the 
United  States.  Payment  may  also  be  made  in 
la^\iful  money  of  the  United  States  or  in  notes 
of  national  banks  by  direct  remittance  to  the 
Treasurer. 

United  States  bonds  are  not  taxable  by  any 
authority,  nor  are  national  banks  taxable  by  any 
state  or  municipal  authority  on  their  own  circu- 
lating notes.  In  this  connection,  however,  it 
should  be  noted  that,  in  computing  the  amount 
of  the  gross  income  for  purposes  of  making 
returns   under   the   corporation  excise  tax  law, 

43 


Protesting  Tax 


corporations  owning  United  States  bonds  should 
include  the  interest  received  thereon  and  that 
such  interest  should  not  be  deducted  from  the 
gross  income  for  the  purpose  of  ascertaining  the 
net  income  which  serves  as  a  basis  for  computing 
the  amount  of  taxes  to  be  paid.  The  reason  for 
so  including  interest  on  the  United  States  bonds 
lies  in  the  fact  that  the  tax  is  imposed  not  upon 
the  property  or  income  of  corporations  but  is  a 
special  tax  to  be  measured  by  the  annual  net 
income  of  such  corporations. 

Should  a  bank  believe  the  tax  levied  by  the 
Treasurer  to  be  excessive,  it  should  make  a 
statement  of  account  to  the  Treasurer,  which, 
if  certified  by  him  to  be  correct,  will  result  in 
the  excess  tax  being  refunded. 

Any  bank  desiring  to  withdraw  all  of  its  cir- 
culation, or  a  part  of  it,  may  do  so  by  depositing 
with  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States  law- 
ful money  to  an  amount  equal  to  the  notes  it 
wishes  to  retire.  Upon  the  proper  deposit  of 
lawful  money  by  a  bank,  the  Treasurer  will 
reassign  the  bonds  to  the  bank  ^vithdrawing 
circulation,  and  will  destroy  the  redeemed 
circulation.  No  bank,  of  course,  may  reduce 
its  deposit  of  bonds  with  the  Treasurer  below 

44 


Withdrawing   Circulation 


the  limit  of  its  Charter  bonds,  unless  it  is  going 
out  of  business.  Any  bank  which  desires 
to  withdraw  all  of  its  circulation  will  be  assessed, 
when  making  its  deposit  of  la's\'ful  money  to 
redeem  such  circulation,  the  cost  of  transporting 
and  redeeming  its  notes.  The  assessment  will 
be  equal  to  the  average  cost  of  the  redemption 
of  national  bank  notes  during  the  preceding 
year. 

The  retirement  of  circulation  by  depositing 
lawful  money  is  limited  by  the  Act  of  July  12, 
1882,  as  amended  by  the  Acts  of  March  4,  1907, 
and  May  30,  1908,  to  $9,000,000  in  any  one 
month.  This  limitation  does  not  apply  in  the 
case  of  the  reduction  of  capital  stock  to  an 
amount  below  a  bank's  outstanding  circulation, 
nor  to  a  bank  going  into  voluntary  liquidation. 
Neither  does  it  apply  when  a  bank  retires  its 
circulation  by  surrendering  the  notes  for  can- 
cellation without  reissue,  as  in  the  latter  case  no 
deposit  of  lawful  money  is  required. 

Before  a  bank  makes  arrangements  to  sell 
bonds  and  reduce  its  circulation,  it  should  find 
out  whether  the  limit  has  been  reached.  Con- 
trary to  the  former  practice,  applications  to  make 
deposits     of     la\\iul     money    at    some    future 

45 


Examining   Bonds 


time  are  not  now  entertained,  as  the  Comp- 
troller construes  the  law  as  requiring  him  to 
accept  deposits  in  the  order  in  which  they  are 
made.  It  may  be  stated,  however,  that  since 
the  limit  was  fixed  at  $9,000,000,  that  amount 
has  never  been  deposited  in  any  one  month. 

A  bank  must,  once  each  fiscal  year,  have  an 
agent  examine  and  compare  w4th  the  books  of 
the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  and  with  its 
own  accounts,  the  bonds  that  it  has  deposited 
with  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States.  If  they 
are  found  correct,  it  must  give  to  the  Treasurer 
a  certificate  similar  to  Form  XXVI,  which  sets 
forth  the  amount  and  different  kinds  of  bonds 
that  it  has  on  deposit. 

Through  the  Riggs  National  Bank,  its  repre- 
sentative in  Washington,  The  National  City 
Bank  is  prepared  to  undertake  this  examination 
on  behalf  of  its  correspondents  and  will  make 
no  charge  therefor. 


Profits  on  Circulation 

THE  profit  which  a  national  bank  makes  in 
taking  out  circulation  is  determined 
mainly  by  two  factors — the  price  at 
which  it  purchases  government  bonds  and  the 
average  rate  of  interest  in  the  money  market. 
As  all  issues  of  government  bonds  usually 
sell  above  par,  and  as  a  bank  receives  in  circu- 
lation an  amount  equal  only  to  the  par  value  of 
the  bonds  deposited,  it  is  e\ndent  that  it  must 
pay  out  for  the  government  bonds  which  it  de- 
posits to  secure  circulation  more  money  than  it 
receives  in  circulating  notes  from  the  Comptrol- 
ler. The  profit  in  the  transaction  lies  in  the 
fact  that  a  bank  can  pay  out  the  circulating 
notes  and  that  it  also  receives  interest  upon  the 
government  bonds.  That  profit  is  reduced, 
however,  owing  to  the  fact  that  the  outstand- 
ing circulating  notes  are  taxed  by  the  Govern- 
ment, that  there  are  certain  expenses  attached 
to  their  printing,  issue,  and  redemption,  and  that, 
as  the  bank    purchases    at    a  premium  bonds 

47 


Comparison   of   Profits 


which  will  in  due  course  be  redeemed  by  the 
Government  at  par,  the  bank  must  set  aside  a 
sinking  fund  which  will,  by  the  time  the  bonds 
mature,  absorb  the  premium.  Remarks  upon 
the  nature  of  this  sinking  fund,  which  will  be 
found  in  the  discussion  of  profits  on  government 
deposits,  will  apply  with  equal  force  in  a  con- 
sideration of  the  profits  upon  national  bank 
circulation  and  are  not,  therefore,  given 
here. 

In  deciding  whether  or  not  it  is  advisable  to 
take  out  circulation,  bank  ofiicers  frequently 
wish  to  know  whether  it  is  more  profitable  to 
issue  circulation  in  a  low  or  a  high  money  market. 
This  question  may  be  answered  by  saying  that  in 
the  case  of  a  purchase  of  bonds  at  par,  the 
average  rate  for  money  is  not  the  determining 
factor,  as  the  additional  profit  derived  from 
taking  out  circulation  over  loaning  direct  the 
money  invested  in  bonds  is  exactly  the  same  no 
matter  what  the  average  rate  for  money  may  be. 

In  the  case  of  bonds  purchased  at  a  premium, 
however,  it  is  more  profitable  to  take  out  circu- 
lation in  a  low  average  money  market  than  in  a 
high  average  money  market.  This  is  due  to  the 
fact  that  the   bank   taking  out   circulation   on 

48 


'And   Interest''   Prices 


bonds  purchased  at  a  premium  will  pay  more 
than  par  for  its  bonds  but  will  receive  back  in 
circulating  notes,  and  be  able  to  loan,  an  amount 
only  equal  to  the  par  value  of  the  bonds  depos- 
ited. By  loaning  direct  the  entire  sum  which 
it  invests  in  bonds,  the  bank  would  receive 
interest  on  that  entire  sum.  Therefore,  in  taking 
out  circulation  the  bank  loses  interest  on  the 
premium. 

In  a  low  average  money  market  this  loss  of 
interest  will  be  less  than  in  a  high  average  money 
market.  Hence,  in  the  case  of  bonds  purchased 
at  a  premium  the  profits  on  circulation  are  less 
in  a  high  average  money  market  than  in  a  low 
average  money  market. 

Since  January  1,  1909,  all  trades  in  govern- 
ment bonds  have  been  at  "and  interest"  prices. 
While  the  Transfer  Books  are  closed,  interest  is 
calculated  to  regular  delivery,  and  from  the  total 
of  price  and  interest  is  deducted  the  interest 
which  the  registered  holder,  prior  to  the  closing 
of  the  Transfer  Books,  receives  on  the  next 
interest  date. 

To  make  a  typical  illustration  of  the  method 
of  computing  profits  on  circulation,  there  is 
assumed  a  purchase  of  $100,000  United  States 

49 


Typical   Illustration 


2  per  cent  bonds  of  1930,  bought  March  1, 
1910,  at  101  and  interest.  With  an  average 
rate  in  the  money  market  of  6  per  cent,  the 
profits  on  circulation  will  be  reached  in  this 
way:  The  bank  will  receive  the  interest  on  the 
bonds,  amounting  to  $2,000  annually,  and, 
assuming  that  it  keeps  out  all  the  circulation,  in 
a  6  per  cent  money  market,  it  will  receive  $6,000 
interest  on  circulation,  making  gross  receipts 
of  $8,000.  As  the  circulation  in  this  case  is 
taken  out  on  2  per  cent  bonds,  the  tax  would  be 
one-half  of  1  per  cent,  or,  on  $100,000,  $500. 
The  average  expense  of  redemption,  express 
charges,  etc.,  is  estimated  by  the  Government 
Actuary  at  about  $63  on  each  $100,000  of  cir- 
culation. The  amount  which  will  have  to  be 
set  aside  annually  for  the  sinking  fund  in  this 
case  is  $26,  making  the  sum  of  the  deductions 
$589.  K  this  amount  is  subtracted  from  the 
gross  receipts  of  $8,000,  the  net  receipts  are 
found  to  be  $7,411.  Had  the  cost  of  the  bonds 
been  loaned  at  the  market  rate  of  interest,  the 
bank  would  have  received  $6,060  per  annum. 
The  net  profit  in  taking  out  circulation  amounts, 
therefore,  to  the  net  receipts  as  stated  above, 
less  the  amount  which  would  have  been  derived 

50 


Net   Profit   on   Circulation 


by  loaning  the  money  direct  at  6  per  cent.  This 
difference  is  $1,351,  which  is  1.341  per  cent  of 
the  cost  of  the  bonds;  that  is  to  say,  in  a  6  per 
cent  money  market,  a  bank  taking  out  circula- 
tion March  1,  1910,  based  upon  a  purchase  of 
bonds  at  101  and  interest,  would  make  annually 
7.34«  per  cent  on  the  investment,  while  it  would 
have  received  but  6  per  cent  had  it  loaned  the 
money  direct. 

This  calculation  shows  the  profits  to  be  ob- 
tained by  taking  out  $100,000  of  circulation. 
On  a  less  sum,  the  amount  of  profit  would  be 
proportionate,  but  the  percentage  of  profit  would 
remain  the  same. 

The  increased  income,  however,  is  not  all 
that  a  bank  gains  by  distributing  its  notes 
throughout  the  community  in  which  it  is  situ- 
ated. The  currency  once  disseminated  becomes 
a  dignified  and  effective  advertisement  of  the 
bank,  although  that  perhaps  is  not  of  great 
practical  importance. 

The  following  is  a  calculation  showing  the 
profits  to  be  derived  from  the  issuance  of  circu- 
lation in  accordance  with  the  example  given. 

51 


Tabular   Illustration 


Profit  on  National  Bank  Circulation  Secured  by  Government 
Bonds. 
Date  of  calculation,  March  1,  1910. 
Issue  of  bonds  purchased:   United  States  Registered  2%  bonds 
of  1930. 

Price  of  bonds  (101  and  int.),  $101,000. 
Par  value  of  bonds  purchased,  $100,000. 
Money  worth  6  per  cent. 

Income  from  bonds $2,000 

Income  from  circulation  loaned  at  6% 6,000 

$8,000 
Deductions : 

Tax  on  circulation $500 

Sinking  Fund  to  retire  premium  on  bonds 
at   maturity,  amount    to    be   set   aside 

each  year 26 

Expenses  (plates,  express  charges,  &c.).  .  63  589 

Net  income  from  circulation $7,411 

Net  income  from  loaning  $101,000  (net  cost  of  bonds 

purchased)  at  6% 6,060 

Increased  income  from  circulation  over  loaning  cost  of 

bonds  direct $1,351 

Percentage  of  increased  profit  on  investment 1.34% 


52 


Profits  Compared 


There  are  also  given  calculations  showing 
the  profits  to  be  derived  from  $100,000  of  circu- 
lation secured  by  the  deposit  of  the  other 
Government  issues  purchased  at  the  asked  prices 
for  them.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the  profits 
to  be  derived  from  the  4s  are  greater  than  those 
to  be  derived  from  the  2s,  although  the  percent- 
age of  profit  is  not  so  great  for  the  former  as  for 
the  latter.  This  is  due  to  the  fact  that  it  is 
necessary  to  invest  considerably  more  money  in 
the  4s  of  1925,  owing  to  the  high  premium 
which  they  command.  The  profits  to  be  de- 
rived from  the  deposit  of  3s  for  circulation 
purposes  are  also  greater  than  those  to  be  secured 
from  the  deposit  of  2s  for  the  same  purpose, 
provided  that  the  3s  are  not  redeemed  until 
their  final  maturity  in  1918.  It  must  be  remem- 
bered, however,  in  this  connection,  that  the  3s 
are  subject  to  redemption  upon  any  interest 
date  between  now  and  1918. 


53 


Tabular   Illustration 


Profit   on   National  Bank   Circulation   Secured  hy   Government 

Bonds. 
Date  of  calculation,  March  1,  1910. 
Issue  of  bonds  purchased:  United  States  Registered  4%  bonds 
of  1925. 

Price  of  bonds  (115  and  int.),  $115,000. 
Par  value  of  bonds  purchased,  $100,000. 
Money  worth  6  per  cent. 

Income  from  bonds $4,000 

Income  from  circulation  loaned  at  6% 6,000 

$10,000 

Deductions : 

Tax  on  circulation $1,000 

Sinking  fund  to  retire  premium  on  bonds 
at  maturity,  amount  to  be  set  aside  each 
year 624 

Expenses  (plate,  express  charges,   &c.)  .  .         63  1,687 

Net  income  from  circulation $8,313 

Net  income  from  loaning  $115,000  (net  cost  of  bonds 

purchased)  at  6% 6,900 

Increased  income  from  circulation  over  loaning  cost  of 

bonds  direct $1,413 

Percentage  of  increased  profit  on  investment 1.22% 


54 


Tabular   Illustration 


Pro/it   on   National  Bank   Circulation   Secured  by  Government 

Bonds. 
Date  of  calculation,  March  1,  1910. 
Issue  of  bonds  purchased:   United  States  Registered  3%  bonds 
of  1918. 

Price  of  bonds  (l02f  and  int.),  $102,750. 

Par  value  of  bonds  purchased,  $100,000. 

Money  worth  6  per  cent. 

Income  from  bonds $3,000 

Income  from  circulation  loaned  at  6% 6,000 

$9,000 
Deductions : 

_     Tax  on  circulation $1,000 

Sinking  Fund  to  retire  premium  on  bonds' 
at  maturity,  amount  to  be  set  aside  each 

year 250 

Expenses  (plates,  express  charges,   &c.).  .         63  1,313 

Net  income  from  circulation $7,687 

Net  income  from  loaning  $102,750  (net  cost  of  bonds 

purchased)  at  6% 6,165 

Increased  income  from  circulation  over  loaning  cost  of 

bonds  direct $1,522 

Percentage  of  increased  profit  on  investment 1 .48% 


55 


Tabular   Illustration 


Profit  on  National  Bank  Circulation  Secured  by  Government 

Bonds. 
Date  of  calculation,  March  1,  1910. 
Issue  of  bonds  purchased:  United  States  Panama  Registered  2% 
bonds  of  1918. 

Price  of  bonds  (lOOj  and  int.),  $100,750. 
Par  value  of  bonds  purchased,  $100,000. 
Money  worth  6  per  cent. 

Income  from  bonds $2,000 

Income  from  circulation  loaned  at  6% 6,000 

$8,000 
Deductions : 

Tax  on  circulation $500 

Sinking  Fund  to  retire  premium  on  bonds 
at  maturity,  amount  to  be  set  aside  each 

year 69 

Expenses  (plates,  express  charges,   &c.).  .         63  632 

Net  income  from  circulation $7,368 

Net  income  from  loaning  $100,750  (net  cost  of  bonds 

purchased)  at  6% 6,045 

Increased  income  from  circulation  over  loaning  cost  of 

bonds  direct $1,323 

Percentage  of  increased  profit  on  investment 1 .31% 


56 


Tabular  Illustration 


Profit   on   National  Bank  Circulation   Secured   by   Government 

Bonds. 
Date  of  calculation,  March  1,  1910. 
Issue  of  bonds  purchased:  United  States  Panama  Registered  2% 
bonds  of  1916. 

Price  of  bonds  (lOOf  and  int.),  $100,750. 
Par  value  of  bonds  purchased,  $100,000. 
Money  worth  6  per  cent. 

Income  from  bonds $2,000 

Income  from  circulation  loaned  at  6% 6,000 

$8,000 
Deductions : 

Tax  on  circulation $500 

Sinking  Fund  to  retire  premium  on  bonds 
at  maturity,  amount  to  be  set  aside  each 

year 99 

Expenses  (plates,  express  charges,   &c.).  .         63  662 

Net  income  from  circulation $7,338 

Net  income  from  loaning  $100,750  (net  cost  of  bonds 

purchased)  at  6% 6,045 

Increased  income  from  circulation  over  loaning  cost  of 

bonds  direct $1,293 

Percentage  of  increased  profit  on  investment 1 .28% 


57 


Emergency  Circulation 

THE  panic  of  1907  was  followed  by  an 
amendment  to  the  national  banking 
laws  designed  to  enable  banks  to  meet 
an  extraordinary  demand  for  circulation,  this 
additional  circulation  to  be  based  on  security 
other  than  United  States  bonds.  Soon  after 
the  assembling  of  Congress  in  December,  1907, 
consideration  was  given  to  a  measure  having 
this  object  in  view,  and  under  date  of  May  30, 
1908,  there  was  passed  "An  Act  to  Amend  the 
National  Banking  Laws,"  which  provides  for 
the  formation  of  National  Currency  Associa- 
tions, the  issue  of  additional  currency  on  the 
security  of  bonds,  other  than  bonds  of  the  United 
States,  and  other  securities,  including  bills  re- 
ceivable. The  Act  also  authorized  the  creation 
of  the  National  Monetary  Commission,  whose 
duty  is  to  inquire  into  and  report  to  Congress, 
at  the  earliest  date  practicable,  what  changes 
are  necessary  or  desirable  in  the  monetary 
system  of  the  United  States  or  in  the  laws 
relating  to  banking  and  currency. 

58 


National  Currency  Associations 

The  Act  in  question  will  expire  by  limitation 
on  June  30,  1914. 

The  first  section  of  the  Act  provides  that 
national  banks,  not  less  than  ten  in  number, 
each  having  an  unimpaired  capital  and  a  surplus 
equal  to  20  per  cent  of  its  capital  and  with 
aggregate  capital  and  surplus  of  not  less  than 
$5,000,000,  may  form  voluntary  associations  to 
be  designated  as  National  Currency  Associa- 
tions. Their  formation  is  subject  to  the  approv- 
al of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  with  whom 
certificate  of  incorporation  must  be  filed.  But 
one  National  Currency  Association  may  be 
formed  in  any  city,  and  it  is  the  intent  of 
the  law  in  the  formation  of  associations  else- 
where than  in  cities  that  the  membership  shall 
be  composed  of  banks  located  in  contiguous 
territory.  Applications  for  membership  are 
subject  to  approval  by  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury.  Each  association  shall  be  composed 
of  banks  not  members  of  any  other  National 
Currency  Association. 

To  permit  banks  to  take  advantage  of  the 
provisions  of  this  Act,  the  demand  for  additional 
circulation  to  meet  the  requirements  in  a  given 

59 


Securities   Acceptable 


locality  must  l^e  recognized  by  the  Secretary  of 
the  Treasury. 

It  is  the  duty  of  the  Secretary  to  obtain  infor- 
mation with  reference  to  the  value  and  character 
of  securities  authorized  to  be  accepted,  and  he  is 
required  from  time  to  time  to  furnish  informa- 
tion to  National  Banking  Associations  regarding 
securities  which  are  acceptable. 

With  the  approval  of  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury,  any  securities,  including  commercial 
paper,  may  be  deposited  by  any  bank  with  a 
National  Currency  Association  to  secure  addi- 
tional circulation  to  the  extent  of  75  per  cent  of 
the  cash  value  of  the  securities  or  commercial 
paper  so  deposited,  but  that  portion  of  such  addi- 
tional circulation  issued  on  the  security  of 
commercial  paper  must  not  exceed  30  per  cent 
of  the  capital  and  surplus  of  the  bank. 

Against  the  deposit  with  a  National  Currency 
Association  of  state,  city,  county,  town  or 
municipal  bonds,  as  described  in  the  Act,  cir- 
culating notes  may  be  issued  to  the  extent  of  not 
exceeding  90  per  cent  of  the  market  value  of 
such  bonds. 

To  be  entitled  to  issue  such  additional  circu- 
lation, a  national  bank,  member  of  a  National 

60 


Deposit  of  Securities 


Currency  Association,  must  have  outstanding 
circulation  secured  by  United  States  bonds  to 
the  extent  of  40  per  cent  of  its  capital  stock. 
If  a  national  bank  desires  to  issue  additional 
circulation,  the  required  securities  must  be  de- 
posited in  trust  for  the  United  States  with  the 
National  Currency  Association  of  which  it  is  a 
member,  when  the  association,  on  behalf  of  the 
bank,  applies  to  the  Comptroller  for  authority  to 
issue  additional  circulation.  This  application  is 
referred  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  and 
upon  his  approval  the  bank  may  receive  addi- 
tional circulation  to  the  amount  to  which  it  is 
entitled. 

National  banks,  with  qualifications  similar  to 
those  required  for  membership  in  National  Cur- 
rency Associations,  may  individually  apply  to  the 
Comptroller  for  permission  to  deposit  with  the 
Treasurer  or  Assistant  Treasurer,  state,  city, 
county,  town,  or  municipal  bonds,  and,  with  the 
approval  of  the  Secretary  as  to  time  and  amount 
of  issue,  may  be  authorized  to  receive  additional 
circulation  to  an  amount  not  exceeding  90  per 
cent  of  the  market  value,  but  not  in  excess  of 
the  par  value  of  the  bonds  deposited. 

This   additional   circulation  is   treated   in  all 

61 


Redemptio7i   Fund 


respects  as  circulation  secured  by  United  States 
bonds,  but  no  national  banking  association  may 
have  outstanding  circulation,  secured  by  United 
States  bonds  and  other  securities,  in  excess  of  its 
capital  and  surplus,  and  in  the  entire  country  not 
more  than  $500,000,000  of  additional  circulation 
may  be  outstanding  at  any  one  time. 

Every  national  bank  having  outstanding  addi- 
tional circulation  shall  keep  with  the  Treasurer 
of  the  United  States  a  redemption  fund  equal  to  5 
per  cent  of  such  outstanding  circulation.  For- 
merly it  was  believed  that  the  intent  of  the  Act 
of  May  30,  1908,  was  to  make  additional  cir- 
culation subject  to  a  5  per  cent  fund  in  addition 
to  that  required  in  the  case  of  Government  bond 
secured  circulation,  making  a  total  redemption 
fund  of  10  per  cent.  The  Treasury  Department 
has  now  ruled  to  the  contrary. 

The  tax  on  additional  circulation  for  the 
first  month  is  fixed  at  5  per  cent  per  annum, 
and  afterwards  an  additional  tax  of  1  per  cent 
per  annum  each  succeeding  month  is  charged 
until  a  total  tax  of  10  per  cent  is  reached. 
Thereafter  the  rate  continues  at  10  per  cent. 
The  proceeds  of  this  tax  on  additional  circula- 
tion are  to  be  credited  and  added  to  the  reserve 

62 


Withdrawing  Circulation 


fund  held  for  the  redemption  of  United  States 
and  other  notes. 

Additional  circulation  may  be  retired  at  any 
time  and  in  any  amount  by  depositing  lawful 
money  or  national  bank  notes  with  the  Treasurer 
of  the  United  States.  These  deposits  are  not 
covered  into  the  Treasury  but  are  retained  for 
the  specific  purpose  of  redeeming  the  notes  of 
the  depositing  bank. 

The  Act  further  provides  for  the  engraving  of 
plates  and  the  printing  of  circulating  notes  there- 
from bearing  the  legend  "Secured  by  United 
States  Bonds  or  Other  Securities,"  and  to  such 
amount  as  shall  be  required  to  supply  the  de- 
mands of  banks.  The  Comptroller  is  also  re- 
quired to  provide  such  circulation  to  an  amount 
equal  to  50  per  cent  of  the  capital  of  each  bank, 
to  be  held  subject  to  his  order.  Until  notes  of 
the  new  design  were  ready  for  issue,  the  old 
designs  of  notes  were  issued  on  the  security  of 
United  States  bonds,  though  the  issue  of  old 
design  notes  based  on  other  securities  is  abso- 
lutely prohibited.  Notes  of  the  new^  design  have 
been  prepared  and  are  ready  for  issue  to  all 
national  banks.  The  old  issues,  upon  receipt  at 
the  Department,  are  redeemed  and  destroyed, 

63 


Rules   and   Regulations 


and  notes  of  the  new  design  issued  in  lieu  thereof. 

All  acts  and  orders  of  the  Comptroller  of  the 
Currency  and  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States 
authorized  by  this  law  are  required  to  have  the 
approval  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  who 
also  has  power  to  make  such  rules  and  regula- 
tions and  exercise  such  control  over  the  organi- 
zation and  management  of  National  Currency 
Associations  as  may  be  necessary  to  carry  out 
the  purposes  of  the  Act. 

Immediately  after  the  passage  of  the  Act 
authorizing  National  Currency  Associations,  at 
the  suggestion  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury, 
such  an  Association  was  formed  in  the  District 
of  Columbia.  Upon  the  further  suggestion  of 
the  Secretary,  other  Associations  will  probably 
be  formed  in  the  immediate  future. 

Wliile  there  has  been  some  correspondence 
with  the  Department  relative  to  depositing  se- 
curities for  additional  circulation  under  this  Act, 
the  Secretary  has  not  recognized  the  existence 
of  a  demand  for  such  increase  in  national  bank 
circulation,  and  no  deposits  as  security  therefor 
have  been  accepted.  United  States  bonds  are, 
on  June  1,  1910,  the  only  securities  on  deposit 
to  secure  outstanding  national  bank  circulation. 

64 


Notification  of  Correspondents 

In  the  event  that  the  Secretary  shall  decide  to 
give  favorable  consideration  to  applications  to 
deposit  securities  for  the  purpose  of  issuing 
additional  circulation  authorized  by  the  Act  of 
May  30, 1908,  the  correspondents  of  The  National 
City  Bank  of  New  York  will  be  notified  promptly. 


65 


Bank  Reserves 

EVERY  national  bank  must  keep  a  lawful 
reserve.  Lawful  reserve  may  be  defined 
as  an  arbitrary  proportion  of  lawful 
money,  which,  under  the  law,  a  bank  must  at  all 
times  maintain  against  its  deposit  liabilities. 
The  exact  sum  required  is  determined  by  the 
amount  of  the  bank's  deposits  and  the  per- 
centage by  the  location  of  the  bank,  that  is, 
whether  in  a  central  reserve  city,  reserve  city,  or 
in  an  undesignated  community. 

The  lawful  reserve  of  a  national  bank  is  made 
up  of  cash  in  its  vaults,  the  5  per  cent  fund  de- 
posited with  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States 
to  redeem  its  circulating  notes,  and,  with  certain 
limitations  and  exceptions,  bank  credits  with 
regularly  designated  Reserve  Agents.  The  cash 
in  the  vault  of  a  bank  which  may  be  counted  in 
the  bank's  lawful  reserve  is  known  as  "lawful 
money"  and  consists  of  the  follo^v^ng: 

Gold  coin, 
Silver  coin, 
Gold  certificates, 

66 


Lawful  Reserve  Money 


Silver  certificates, 
Clearing  House  certificates, 
United  States  notes, 
Treasury  notes. 

In  those  cities  where  there  is  a  clearing  house 
which  has  provided  a  suitable  vault  for  the  use 
of  members,  a  bank  may  deposit  with  it  coin 
and  legal  tenders  and  receive  Clearing  House 
Certificates  representing  the  lawful  money  so 
deposited.  These  certificates  are  issued  in  a 
form  to  pass  only  from  one  bank  to  another  in 
payment  of  clearing  debit  balances.  Such 
Clearing  House  Certificates  may  be  counted  in 
the  reserve. 

So-called  Clearing  House  Certificates  some- 
times issued  in  times  of  monetary  stringency  by 
a  clearing  house  association  accepting  bank 
collateral  and  issuing  Clearing  House  Certifi- 
cates against  such  collateral,  do  not,  of  course, 
come  within  this  meaning,  and  may  not  be 
counted  in  the  reserve. 

The  amount  of  reserve  that  a  bank  must  keep 
in  compliance  with  the  National  Bank  Act  is  a 
fixed  percentage  of  its  net  deposits.  The  first 
step,  therefore,  in  calculating  the  legal  reserve  of 
a  national  bank  is  to  find  exactly  what  are  NET 

67 


Net  Deposits 


DEPOSITS  according  to  the  regulations  of  the 
office  of  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency. 

A  bank,  in  order  to  find  its  NET  DEPOSITS, 
must  first  get  the  total  of  its  gross  deposits.  There 
are  numerous  items  which  go  to  make  up  these 
gross  deposits,  and  they  are  set  forth  in  the 
following  typical  bank  statement,  which  con- 
tains all  items  that  are  likely  to  be  found  in  the 
usual  bank  report.  The  gross  deposits  can  be 
ascertained  by  adding  together  all  the  items 
which  are  found  distinguished  by  heavy  type 
on  the  LIABILITY  side  of  the  statement. 
After  this  total  is  ascertained,  the  items  found 
similarly  distinguished  on  the  RESOURCE  side 
of  the  statement  must  be  deducted,  and  the 
result  obtained  is  NET  DEPOSITS,  which 
form  the  basis  on  which  the  reserve  is  figured. 


68 


Reserve  Blank 


Resources.  Liabilities. 

Loans  and  Discounts Capital  Stock  paid  in 

Overdrafts Surplus  Fund 

U.  S.  Bonds  to  secure  Circu-  Undivided     Profits,    less    Ex- 

lation penses  and  Taxes 

U.  S.  Bonds  to  secure  U.S.  National  Bank  notes  outstand- 

Deposits ing 

Other  Bonds  to  secure  U.  S.  DUE     TO     OTHER     NA- 

Deposits TIONAL  BANKS 

U.  S.  Bonds  on  hand DUE   TO   STATE    BANKS 

Premium  on  U.  S.  Bonds AND  BANKERS 

Bonds,  Securities,  etc DUE    TO    TRUST     COM- 

Banking     House,      Furniture  PANIES    AND    SAV- 

and  Fi.xtures INGS  BANKS 

Other  Real  Estate  owned DUE  TO  APPROVED  RE- 
DUE    FROM    NATIONAL  SERVE  AGENTS 

BANKS DIVIDENDS  UNPAID .... 

DUE  FROM  STATE  BANKS  INDIVIDUAL  DEPOSITS. 

AND  BANKERS CERTIFICATES    OF    DE- 

Due   from   approved   Reserve  POSIT 

Agents SPECIAL  DEPOSITS 

Internal  Revenue  Stamps CERTIFIED   CHECKS 

CHECKS    AND    OTHER  CASHIER'S  CHECKS  OUT- 
CASH  ITEMS  STANDING , 

EXCHANGES  FOR  CLEAR-  U.  S.  Deposits 

ING  HOUSE DEPOSITS  OF  U.  S.  DIS- 

NOTES  OF   OTHER    NA-  BURSING  OFFICERS. 

TIONAL  BANKS Bonds  borrowed 

Fractional     paper     Currency,  Notes  and  Bills  rediscounted.. . 

Nickels  and  Cents Bills  payable 

Specie Tax  Reserve 

Legal  Tender  Notes Bonds  borrowed 

Five  per  cent  Redemption  Fund  Liabilities    other    than    those 

DUE  FROM  U.  S.  TREAS-  above 

URER 

Bonds  loaned 

Total Total 

69 


Reciprocal    Accounts    with    Reserve    Agents 

If  the  balance  of  any  reciprocal  account  is  an 
amount  due  from  the  Reserve  Agent  bank,  such 
balance  may  be  treated  as  available  for  reserve. 

But  if  such  balance  represents  an  amount  due 
to  the  Reserve  Agent  bank,  then  it  should  be 
regarded  as  "Due  to  National  Banks." 

According  to  the  practice  of  the  Comptroller's 
office,  a  bank  need  keep  reserve  only  on  the 
amount  of  bank  deposits  that  it  has  in  excess  of 
the  amount  due  from  other  banks.  Therefore, 
the  amount  *'due  from  banks"  should  be  sub- 
tracted from  the  amount  "due  to  banks"  if  the 
latter  amount  is  in  excess,  and  the  excess  added 
to  the  deposits  to  ascertain  the  net  amount  of 
deposits.  If  a  bank's  bank  deposits  are  not  as 
large  as  the  amount  it  has  due  to  it  from  banks, 
both  the  items  **due  to  banks"  and  "due  from 
banks"  are  omitted  from  the  computation. 

In  Forms  XXVII  and  XXVIII  ^vill  be  found  re- 
produced the  blanks  which  the  Comptroller  of  the 
Currency  furnishes  to  banks  for  the  purpose  of 
computing  their  reserves.  These  statements  are 
arranged  in  such  manner  and  in  such  detail  that 
a  careful  study  of  them  in  connection  with  this 
chapter  ought  to  make  the  method  of  calculating 

70 


Central  Reserve  Cities 


reserve  perfectly  clear.  The  first  statement  is 
the  proper  form  for  banks  located  in  Central 
Reserve  Cities  and  in  Reserve  Cities ;  the  second 
statement  is  the  proper  form  for  banks  located 
elsewhere  than  in  Central  Reserve  and  in  Reserve 
Cities,  or  what  may  conveniently  be  termed 
Undesignated  Communities. 

Central  Reserve  Cities  are  those  which  have 
been  so  designated  in  the  law  and  subsequently 
by  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  upon  appli- 
cation of  at  least  three-fourths  of  the  national 
banks  located  therein.  They  must  have  a  popu- 
lation of  at  least  200,000. 

The  Central  Reserve  Cities  are  as  follows: 

Chicago, 
New  York, 

St.  Louis. 

Reserve  Cities  are  those  which,  similarly  to 
Central  Reserve  Cities,  have  been  so  designated 
in  the  law  and  subsequently  by  the  Comptroller 
of  the  Currency  upon  application  of  at  least 
three-fourths  of  the  national  banks  located  there- 
in. They  must  have  a  population  of  at  least 
25,000. 

71 


Reserve   Cities 


On  June  1,  1910,  the 
follows : 

Albany 

Baltimore 

Boston 

Brooklyn 

Cedar  Rapids 

Cincinnati 

Cleveland 

Columbus 

Dallas 

Denver 

Des  Moines 

Detroit 

Dubuque 

Fort  Worth 

Galveston 

Houston 

Indianapolis 

Kansas  City,  Kansas 

Kansas  City,  Mo. 

Lincoln 

Los  Angeles 

Louisville 

Milwaukee 


Reserve  Cities  were  as 

Minneapolis 

Muskogee 

New  Orleans 

Oklahoma  City 

Omaha 

Philadelphia 

Pittsburg 

Portland 

Pueblo 

St.  Joseph 

St.  Paul 

Salt  Lake  City 

San  Antonio 

San  Francisco 

Savannah 

Seattle 

South  Omaha 

Spokane 

Tacoma 

Topeka 

Waco 

Washington 

Wichita 


Central  Reserve  City  Banks  must  maintain  a 
reserve  of  25  per  cent  of  their  net  deposits.  This 
entire  fund  must  be  kept  in  lawful  money  in  their 
own  vaults. 


72 


Required    Reserve 


Reserve  City  Banks  must  also  maintain  a 
reserve  of  25  per  cent  of  their  net  deposits.  Of 
this  amount,  one-half,  or  12^  per  cent,  of  their 
net  deposits  must  be  held  in  lawful  money  in  the 
vaults  of  the  bank.  The  remaining  one-half,  or 
12^  per  cent,  of  net  deposits  may  be  deposited 
in  banks  located  in  a  Central  Reserve  City,  pro- 
vided the  depositaries  are  approved  by  the  Comp- 
troller of  the  Currency. 

Country  Banks,  i.e.,  a  general  term  used 
to  designate  institutions  located  elsewhere  than 
in  Reserve  or  Central  Reserve  Cities,  must 
maintain  a  reserve  of  15  per  cent  of  their  net 
deposits.  Of  this  amount  two-fifths,  or  6  per 
cent,  of  their  net  deposits  must  be  held  in  lawful 
money  in  the  vaults  cf  the  bank.  The  remaining 
three-fifths,  or  9  per  cent,  of  the  net  deposits  may 
be  deposited  in  national  banks  located  in  Re- 
serve or  in  Central  Reserve  Cities,  provided  the 
depositaries  are  approved  by  the  Comptroller  of 
the  Currency.  Country  banks  are  not  permitted 
to  hold  the  reserve  of  any  other  banks. 

Under  these  regulations  a  Central  Reserve 
Bank  is  unable  to  earn  interest  on  any  portion  of 
its  reserve  fund.  This  disadvantage,  however, 
is  offset,    at  least  in  part,  by  the  fact  that  such  a 

73 


ReplenisJiing  Reserves 


bank  is  in  a  position  to  secure  the  reserve  funds 
of  banks  in  Reserve  Cities  and  Undesignated 
Communities. 

A  bank  desiring  to  have  a  Reserve  Agent 
appointed  makes  an  application  by  letter  to 
the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency.  No  particu- 
lar form  of  letter  is  required  for  this  application, 
and  if  the  bank  which  it  is  proposed  to  make  a 
Reserve  Agent  is  in  good  standing,  the  applica- 
tion will  be  promptly  approved. 

When  the  reserve  of  a  bank  falls  below  the 
amount  specified  by  law,  such  a  bank  must  not 
further  increase  its  liabilities  in  any  manner, 
except  that  it  may  continue  to  purchase  bills  of 
exchange  payable  at  sight.  The  bank  must  also 
cease  paying  dividends  until  the  reserve  is  made 
good.  After  a  bank  has  been  notified  by  the 
Comptroller  of  the  Currency  that  its  reserve 
is  below  the  legal  limit,  it  must,  \\^thin  thirty 
days  from  that  time,  replenish  such  reserve,  or 
the  Comptroller  may,  with  the  concurrence  of 
the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  appoint  a  re- 
ceiver to  liquidate  its  business.  Action  on  the 
part  of  the  Comptroller,  however,  is  discretionary 
and  not  mandatory. 


74 


Government  Depositaries 

THE  Government  has  utilized  banks  in 
its  fiscal  operations  ever  since  the  Revo- 
lutionary War.  Robert  Morris,  who 
carried  on  the  financial  operations  of  the  colonies 
at  that  time,  accomplished  his  object  by  operating 
largely  through  banks  which  he  organized  for 
the  purpose.  During  the  period  of  the  Revolu- 
tion and  up  to  1809,  no  regulations  were  in 
force  regarding  the  disposition  of  the  public 
revenues.  Public  moneys  were  placed  in  any 
bank  or  banks  that  the  Treasury  ofiicials  saw 
fit  to  designate.  From  1789  to  1791  the  Bank  of 
North  America  in  Pennsylvania  was  the  princi- 
pal depositary  for  public  revenues.  After  1791 
the  United  States  Bank  was  voluntarily  included 
by  the  Treasury  Department  among  the  depos- 
itary institutions.  The  Act  of  March  3,  1809, 
was  the  first  specific  enactment  concerning  the 
disposition  of  public  money.  This  law  made  it 
incumbent  on  the  Treasury  officials  to  place 
public  moneys  in  the  hands  of  disbursing  officers 

76 


History    of   Depositaries 


in  some  duly  incorporated  bank  to  be  named  by 
the  President.  The  regulation  had  no  bearing 
on  the  accounts  of  collecting  officers.  In  1816, 
upon  the  renewal  of  the  charter  of  the  United 
States  Bank,  it  was  provided  in  the  charter  that 
public  moneys  should  be  placed  in  that  institu- 
tion or  its  branches.  This  regulation  remained 
in  force  until  President  Jackson's  term.  He 
was  opposed  to  the  concentration  of  deposits  in 
one  bank  and  proceeded  to  distribute  them  among 
the  various  State  institutions.  The  sudden 
augmenting  of  deposits  in  the  various  State  banks 
induced  an  undue  expansion  of  credit  and  specu- 
lation, so  that  in  1837,  when  the  Government 
was  forced  to  withdraw  some  of  these  deposits, 
a  distressing  panic  ensued.  President  Van 
Buren  then  recommended  the  Independent 
Treasury  system,  and  the  Independent  Treasury 
Law  was  passed  July  4, 1840.  It  remained  in 
force  only  until  August  13,  1841.  On  August 
16, 1846,  a  new  Independent  Treasury  Law  was 
enacted  and  has  remained  in  force  until  the 
present  day.  Public  funds  in  banks  were  then 
withdrawn,  and  from  1847  to  1864  no  Govern- 
ment account  was  kept  with  banks. 

In  1864,  the  re-enacted  National  Bank  Act  was 

76 


Classes  of  Depositaries 


passed.  This  Act  provided  that  "all  national 
banks  designated  for  that  purpose  by  the  Sec- 
retary of  the  Treasury  shall  be  depositaries  of 
public  money  except  from  customs."  By  Act 
of  March  4,  1907,  customs  receipts  may  now  also 
be  deposited  in  national  bank  depositaries. 

There  are  two  classes  of  depositary  banks: 

Permanent  or  regular  depositaries. 

Temporary  depositaries. 

Permanent  depositaries,  as  the  name  indi- 
cates, are  permanent  in  character.  They  are 
designated  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  in 
localities  where  the  principal  offices  of  Internal 
Revenue  and  Customs  Collectors  and  Receivers 
of  Public  Moneys  on  Account  of  Land  Sales  are 
located.  The  main  function  of  such  banks,  in 
their  relation  to  the  Treasury,  is  to  receive  de- 
posits of  public  funds.  Banks  are  not  appointed 
as  permanent  depositaries  unless  they  are  situ- 
ated in  a  section  of  the  country  where  the  col- 
lection and  transfer  of  public  revenues  will  be 
safeguarded  and  facilitated  by  the  machinery 
of  a  bank.  Therefore  a  bank,  in  order  to  be 
designated  a  permanent  depositary,  must  first 
of  all  be  in  a  locality  where  receipts  from  Internal 
Revenue,  Customs,  or  Sales  of  Public  Lands  are 

77 


Permanent  Depositaries 


continuous  and  large  enough  to  make  a  depos- 
itary of  some  use  to  the  Government.  If  a  bank 
is  located  in  such  a  district,  and  its  officers  wish 
to  be  designated  a  permanent  depositary,  appli- 
cation should  be  made  by  letter  to  the  Secretary 
of  the  Treasury. 

When  a  bank  is  appointed  a  permanent  depos- 
itary it  is  authorized  to  receive  a  certain  amount 
of  government  money.  To  secure  such  funds  it 
must  place  with  the  Treasurer  of  the  United 
States  government  bonds  equal  in  face  value  to 
the  moneys  to  be  deposited.  Such  a  government 
account  can  be  utilized  by  a  bank  in  the  same 
manner  as  the  deposits  of  individuals. 

The  Act  of  May  30, 1908,  states  that  no  reserve 
need  be  maintained  against  government  deposits, 
the  basis  for  this  exemption  being  that  such 
deposits  are  amply  secured  by  the  United  States 
bonds  lodged  against  them. 

Government  accounts  with  permanent  deposi- 
taries are  active.  United  States  Revenue  and 
Customs  collectors  deposit  their  receipts  each  day 
with  the  properly  designated  bank.  If  there  hap- 
pens to  be  more  than  one  depositary  in  a  place  the 
Collectors  may  alternate  their  deposits.  For  a 
deposit  by  a  Collector,  the  bank  is  required  to 

78 


Certificate  of  Deposit 


issue  a  certificate  of  deposit,  usually  in  tripli- 
cate. The  original  certificate  the  bank  must 
send  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  the  dupli- 
cate, in  case  of  internal  revenue  receipts,  to  the 
Commissioner  of  Internal  Revenue,  in  case  of 
land  office  receipts  to  the  Commissioner  of  the 
General  Land  Office.  The  triplicate  the  bank 
places  in  its  own  files.  Certificates  of  deposit 
covering  customs  receipts  are  issued  only  in 
duplicate,  the  original  being  sent  to  the  Secre- 
tary of  the  Treasury  and  the  duplicate  delivered 
to  the  Collector  of  Customs.  Such  certificates 
of  deposit  must  be  mailed  on  the  day  the  deposit 
is  made.  A  copy  of  the  Certificate  of  Deposit 
will  be  found  in  Form  XXIX. 

If  a  deposit  is  made  with  a  depositary  bank  in 
excess  of  the  maximum  deposit  for  which  the 
bank  has  been  designated  by  the  Secretary  of 
the  Treasury,  such  excess  must  be  transmitted 
without  orders  to  the  nearest  sub-treasury  on 
the  day  it  is  received.  Remittances  must  in- 
volve no  expense  to  the  Treasury  Department. 

Every  permanent  depositary  must  on  stated 
days  render  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  a 
transcript  of  the  Treasurer's  account,  and  must 
also  send  a  duplicate  to  the  Treasurer.     A  list 

79 


Depositary   A  ccounts 


of  weekly  deposits,  showing  the  details  of  the 
aggregate  amounts  of  receipts,  should  accom- 
pany the  transcript  to  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury.  A  separate  list  should  be  rendered 
for  the  deposit  of  each  officer,  if  more  than  one 
makes  deposits,  and  for  each  account. 

Miscellaneous  and  incidental  deposits  should 
be  clearly  identified  by  the  name  of  the  deposi- 
tor, and  by  indicating  for  what  account  deposited ; 
if  a  repayment,  the  bank  should  state  on  what 
account  the  money  repaid  was  originally  ad- 
vanced. 

*  The  debit  side  of  the  transcript  should  exhibit 
money  paid  by  the  bank,  whether  on  a  Treas- 
urer's letter  of  instruction,  transfer  order,  or 
Treasurer's  warrant,  with  number  of  order,  or 
number  and  character  of  warrant. 

Counter  entries  should  not  be  made  without 
instructions  from  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury 
or  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States. 

When  counter  entries  are  made  to  correct 
amounts  previously  and  erroneously  placed  to 
credit  or  debit,  it  is  very  important  that  the  name 
of  the  depositor  and  the  date  of  the  original 
entry  should  be  given.    Corrections  should  never 

80 


Form   of   Transcript 


be  made  by  changing  balances  once  brought 
forward. 

All  warrants  must  be  transmitted  to  the 
Treasurer  with  the  account  current  on  which 
they  are  charged;  otherwise  such  charges  will 
not  be  allowed. 

Transfers  should  be  charged  when  remittance 
is  made,  without  waiting  for  Certificates  of 
Deposit,  which  can  be  sent  to  the  Treasurer  as 
soon  as  received. 

Copies  of  the  Transcript,  List  of  Balances  and 
List  of  Deposits  will  be  found  in  Forms  XXX 
to  XXXIII.  In  Form  XXXIV  will  be  found  a 
list  of  dates  on  which  transcripts  must  be 
rendered. 

In  places  where  there  is  a  government  de- 
positary tax-payers  are  saved  the  inconvenience 
of  paying  their  public  dues  in  lawful  money. 
The  Government  does  not  recognize  the  pay- 
ment of  taxes  by  check  and  draft,  but  a  Collector 
is  permitted  to  take  at  his  own  risk  any  check 
that  his  depositary  will  receive  as  money. 

The  Government,  under  the  Act  of  May  30, 
1908,  is  authorized  to  receive  interest  on  money 
that  it  has  placed  in  national  bank  depositaries 
and  at  such  uniform  rate,  not  less  than  one  per 

81 


Temporary  Depositaries 


cent,  as  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  may 
prescribe. 

There  are,  at  the  present  time,  493  regular  or 
permanent  depositaries  and  975  temporary  de- 
positaries. 

Temporary  depositaries  are  depositaries  that 
do  not  receive  current  deposits  directly  from 
public  oflScers,  but  receive  from  the  Treasurer, 
usually  through  the  medium  of  another  deposi- 
tary bank,  the  amount  of  the  funds  allotted. 
Temporary  depositaries  are  not  selected  to 
facilitate  the  collection  business  of  the  Govern- 
ment, but  for  the  purpose  of  apportioning  surplus 
revenues,  so  that  they  may  be  employed  for 
business  and  commercial  uses  instead  of  being 
impounded  in  the  Treasury. 

The  first  marked  recognition  of  such  deposi- 
taries occurred  during  the  refunding  operations 
carried  on  in  the  '70s.  In  1879  the  operations 
of  the  Government  incident  to  the  resumption 
of  specie  payment  resulted  in  the  accumulation 
of  considerable  funds  by  the  Treasury  Depart- 
ment. Secretary  Sherman,  in  order  to  prevent  a 
glut  of  money  in  the  Treasury  Department, 
whence  it  could  be  paid  out  only  for  daily  expendi- 
tures or  by  an  appropriation  of  Congress,  made 

82 


Use    of  Depositaries 


use  of  temporary  depositaries.  Notable  use 
was  again  made  of  such  agencies  in  1887  and 
1888  by  Secretary  Fairchild.  Since  then,  when- 
ever the  receipts  of  the  Government  have  been 
largely  in  excess  of  the  expenditures,  the  Treas- 
ury Department  has  created  temporary  deposi- 
taries to  hold  such  excess  revenues.  Any 
Government  money  placed  \\dth  temporary  deposi- 
tary banks  is  available  for  business  uses. 

The  principal  difference  between  a  permanent 
depositary  and  a  temporary  depositary  is  that 
the  account  in  a  temporary  depositary  is  inac- 
tive. The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  allots  a 
certain  portion  of  Government  funds  to  such  a 
depositary,  and  the  account  remains  stationary, 
subject  only  to  call  by  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury.  Money  is  usually  placed  in  tempo- 
rary depositaries  through  the  agency  of  one  of 
the  regular  depositaries  which  the  Secretary 
of  the  Treasury  utilizes  as  a  receiving  and  dis- 
tributing agent. 

Temporary  depositaries  are  not  appointed 
because  of  location.  Whenever  the  surplus  of 
the  Government  w^arrants  the  creation  of  tem- 
porary depositaries,  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury, 
as  far  as  possible,  attempts  to  distribute  such 

83 


Disbursing  Officers'  Accounts 


funds  pro  rata  among  the  banks  throughout  the 
country.  Any  bank  receiving  a  deposit  must 
make  a  counter-deposit  of  government  bonds 
with  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury.  Applica- 
tion for  temporary  deposits  should  be  made 
by  letter  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 
Usually  applications  to  be  designated  a  tempo- 
rary depositary  are  considered  by  the  Secretary 
of  the  Treasury  in  the  order  of  their  receipt, 
discrimination,  of  course,  being  made  in  favor 
of  banks  in  a  section  of  the  country  where  pre- 
viously created  depositaries  are  few  in  com- 
parison. 

Court  and  post-office  funds  are  kept  in  per- 
manent or  regular  depositaries. 

Interest  is  sometimes  paid  by  banks  on  court 
funds  placed  with  them,  but  this  is  by  arrange- 
ment with  the  court. 

Whenever  Congress  appropriates  money  for 
the  erection  of  a  public  building  or  other  public 
improvement  and  it  becomes  necessary  to  desig- 
nate a  disbursing  officer,  such  disbursing  officer 
must  keep  the  funds  entrusted  to  him  at  the 
nearest  convenient  depositary  or  Sub-Treasury. 
Usually  the  disbursing  officer  is  a  government 
officer  located  in  the  place  or  near  the  place 

84 


Public   Improvement    Accounts 

where  the  public  improvements  are  being  made 
and  he  keeps  his  account  with  a  regular  deposi- 
tary if  there  is  one.  K  such  a  disbursing  officer 
is  located  at  a  point  where  there  is  a  Sub- 
Treasury,  he  is  required  to  keep  his  account  at 
the  Sub-Treasury.  Sometimes  the  cashier  of  a 
bank  is  designated  as  a  disbursing  officer  of  the 
Government  if  no  other  government  official 
happens  to  be  stationed  at  or  near  the  place 
where  an  account  is  necessary  to  be  kept,  but  a 
cashier  so  appointed  cannot  keep  the  funds  he 
is  required  to  disburse  in  his  own  bank  unless 
it  is  a  public  depositary.  In  places  where  there 
is  no  Treasurer  or  Assistant  Treasurer  or  bank 
depositary,  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  may, 
when  he  deems  it  essential  to  the  public  interest, 
especially  authorize  that  public  money  may  be 
kept  in  some  other  manner  under  such  regula- 
tions as  he  may  deem  safe  and  effectual  to 
facilitate  payment  to  public  creditors,  but  this 
has  not  been  done  for  some  years. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  construed 
the  law  concerning  the  security  required  for 
Government  deposits  to  include  not  only  Gov- 
ernment bonds  but  other  bonds  that  might  in 

85 


Miscellaneous  Bonds 


his  judgment  furnish  a  satisfactory  margin  of 
safety. 

In  recent  years  miscellaneous  bonds  have  been 
accepted  as  security  for  public  deposits  and 
particularly  during  the  period  of  surplus  reve- 
nues, when,  because  of  the  large  accumulation, 
it  was  difficult  to  obtain  government  bonds  for 
this  purpose.  State,  municipal  and  high  grade 
railroad  bonds  were,  under  the  construction 
given  to  the  phrase  "  United  States  bonds,  and 
otherwise,'*  accepted  in  large  amounts.  By  the 
Act  of  March  4,  1907,  Congress  confirmed  this 
construction,  but  provided  that  on  or  before  the 
1st  of  January  of  each  year  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury  shall  make  a  public  statement  of  the 
securities  acceptable  during  that  year  for  public 
deposits.  In  accordance  vdih.  this  Act  of  Con- 
gress the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  on  Decem- 
ber 18,  1909,  announced  that  when  further  pub- 
lic deposits  are  made  with  banks,  the  following 
named  bonds  and  no  others  will  be  accepted  as 
security  for  deposits. 

United  States,  Philippine,  Porto  Rican  and 
District  of  Columbia  bonds  at  par;  bonds  of  the 
Hawaiian  Territory  at  90  per  cent  of  par ;  bonds  of 
the  Philippine  Railway  Company  at  90  per  cent  of 

86 


District   of   Columbia   Deposits 

their  market  value  but  not  exceeding  90  per  cent 
of  par.  At  the  same  time  it  was  announced  that 
all  banks  holding  deposits  of  public  funds  se- 
cured by  any  bonds  other  than  those  above 
named  were  required  to  withdraw  such  bonds 
on  or  before  February  1,  1910,  and  substitute 
therefor  bonds  heretofore  described.  This  resulted 
in  the  withdrawal  from  the  Treasury  of  all  state, 
municipal  and  railroad  bonds  held  to  secure 
public  deposits.  This  order  does  not  do  away 
entirely  with  the  practice  of  accepting  "other 
securities,"  as  it  still  lies  within  the  power  of  the 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  under  the  Act  of 
March  4,  1907,  to  state  at  the  beginning  of  any 
year  what  class  of  bonds  he  will  accept  as  secur- 
ity for  public  deposits.  In  the  future,  should 
necessity  require  it,  there  may  therefore  be  a 
return  to  the  practice  of  accepting  the  so-called 
"other  securities";  but  at  the  time  this  is  written 
it  is  the  intention  to  accept  only  those  bonds 
which  are  named  above,  except  possibly  for 
District  of  Columbia  taxes  lodged  with  the 
depositary    banks    of    Washington. 

One-half  of  the  District  of  Columbia's  expendi- 
tures is  paid  by  the  General  Government  and  the 
other  half  by  citizens  of  the  District.    The  latter 

87 


Securities  Acceptable 


half,  in  the  form  of  taxes  paid  by  the  citizens,  is 
paid  into  the  United  States  Treasury.  Several 
million  dollars  paid  into  the  Treasury  in  May  and 
June  of  each  year  are  thus  withdrawn  from 
business  use,  and  withheld  from  such  use  con- 
trary to  the  practice  in  vogue  in  other  cities, 
until  the  money  is  released  from  the  Treasury  by 
the  slow  process  of  disbursement.  To  obviate 
this,  an  amount  equal  to  the  taxes  paid  into  the 
Treasury  during  these  two  months  is  placed  with 
the  local  banks.  As  these  deposits  are  returnable 
to  the  Treasury  in  monthly  instalments,  the 
diminishing  character  of  the  deposit  justifies  the 
acceptance  against  them  by  the  Department  of 
miscellaneous  securities  on  satisfactory  margin. 
No  rule  has  been  laid  down  as  to  just  what  secur- 
ities will  be  taken  against  this  exceptional  class 
of  deposits. 

The  following  is  a  classification  of  bonds  now 
acceptable  as  security  for  public  deposits: 

Government. 

/U.  S.  Loan  of  1925 at  par. 

\U.  S.  Loan  of  1908-18 do 

Group  I       U.  S.  Consols  of  1930 do 

/U.  S.  Panamas  of  1936 do 

\U.  S.  Panamas  of  1938 do 

88 


Withdraxval   of   Deposits 


/Philippine  Loans at  par 

P  J  J    /Porto  Rico  Loans do 

^  IDistrict  of  Columbia do 

vTerritory  of  Hawaii at  90%  of  par. 

1  Miscellaneous. 
Philippine    Railway    Company,    at    90%    of 
market  value  not  exceeding  90%  of  par. 

When  banks  have  occasion  to  withdraw  bonds 
held  by  the  Treasurer  to  secure  deposits  of  pub- 
He  moneys,  the  following  is  the  order  of  with- 
drawal: Group  III,  Group  II,  and  Group  I. 
Bonds  within  a  group  may  be  interchanged  by 
banks  if  desired,  but  bonds  in  a  lower  group 
may  not  be  substituted  for  those  in  a  higher 
group. 

The  withdrawal  of  government  funds  from 
depositary  banks  can  be  made  by  the  Secretary 
of  the  Treasury  without  any  previous  notice, 
although  the  withdrawal  of  any  considerable 
amount  is  usually  preceded  by  timely  notice. 

Forms  XXXV  and  XXXVI  may  be  used  by 
banks  desiring  to  withdraw  bonds  deposited  to 
secure  government  funds. 


89 


Profits  on  Deposits 

THE  profits  which  can  be  made  on  gov- 
ernment deposits  depend  on  several 
elements.  They  are  the  interest  charged 
by  the  Government,  the  average  interest  rate 
in  the  money  market,  the  particular  issue  of 
bonds  which  is  used  to  secure  the  deposit, 
and  the  price  and  net  investment  yield  of  those 
bonds. 

Consider  first  the  case  in  which  United  States 
Government  bonds  only  are  deposited  with  the 
Treasury  Department  to  secure  the  deposit  of 
government  funds.  For  every  $100,000  of 
United  States  deposits  secured  there  must  be 
deposited  $100,000  par  value  of  United  States 
bonds,  and  as  all  issues  of  government  securi- 
ties sell  at  a  premium  it  will  be  necessary  for  the 
bank  receiving  a  government  deposit  to  pay  out 
in  the  purchase  of  bonds  more  than  it  will  re- 
ceive back  in  the  form  of  a  deposit.  There  must 
also  be  taken  into  account  the  fact  that,  while 
the  bonds  are  purchased   at  a  premium,  each 

90 


Sinking  Fund 


year  that  they  are  held  brings  them  nearer  to  the 
date  of  maturity,  when  they  will  be  worth  only 
their  face  value.  It  is  therefore  necessary,  in 
accurately  calculating  the  profits  upon  govern- 
ment deposits,  to  set  aside  from  each  quarterly 
payment  of  interest  by  the  Government  an 
amount  sufficient,  if  placed  at  interest,  to  offset, 
at  the  maturity  of  the  bonds,  the  premium  w^hich 
was  originally  paid.  That  deduction  is  called 
the  sinking  fund,  and  should  be  calculated  with 
much  care. 

To  arrive  at  the  sinking  fund  accurately  a  sum 
must  be  found  which,  if  deducted  from  each 
quarterly  interest  payment,  and  placed  at  inter- 
est from  the  various  dates  of  deduction  to  the 
maturity  of  the  bonds,  will  exactly  amount  at 
maturity  to  the  premium  paid.  In  the  calcula- 
tions which  are  made  in  this  volume,  in  connec- 
tion with  typical  forms  showing  both  the  profits 
on  government  deposits  and  on  national  bank 
note  circulation,  the  formula  used  by  the  United 
States  Government  Actuary  is  followed. 

A  bank  receiving  government  deposits  must, 
as  has  been  said,  pay  out  for  the  United  States 
bonds  which  it  uses  to  secure  these  deposits, 
an  amount  in  excess  of  the  deposit  received.    On 

91 


Profits   on  Deposits 


the  other  hand  the  bank  receives  the  interest  on 
the  bonds,  which  are  held  in  trust  by  the  Treas- 
urer of  the  United  States.  Its  gross  receipts, 
therefore,  will  be  equal  to  the  interest  on  the 
bonds  placed  with  the  Treasurer,  and  interest 
on  the  full  amount  of  the  deposit  at  the  current 
money  market  rate.  There  must  then  be 
deducted  the  amount  necessary  to  set  aside  in  the 
sinking  fund  to  absorb  the  premium  on  the  bonds 
purchased  and  the  tax  or  interest  on  the  deposit. 
The  comparison  of  that  net  return  must  be  made 
with  the  amount  that  would  have  been  received 
had  the  total  amount  invested  in  the  bonds 
been  loaned  directly  at  the  current  money 
market  rate. 

Suppose,  for  example,  a  bank  purchased 
$100,000  United  States  2  per  cent  consols  March 
1,  1910,  at  101  and  interest.  The  bank  would  in 
a  year  receive  the  interest  on  the  bonds,  amount- 
ing to  $2,000,  and,  in  a  money  market  in  which 
the  rate  averaged  6  per  cent,  it  could  loan  out 
the  deposit  obtained  from  the  Government  and 
receive  $6,000.  The  total  receipts,  therefore, 
would  be  $8,000.  There  must  be  deducted  from 
that  the  amount  necessary  to  be  set  aside  for 
the  sinking  fund  to  absorb  the  premium  on  the 

92 


Calculation  of  Profits 


bonds.  If  there  is  set  aside  each  year  $26  in  four 
equal  amounts,  at  the  dates  of  the  quarterly 
interest  payments,  and  these  amounts  are  im- 
proved at  6  per  cent  until  the  maturity  of  the 
bonds  in  1930,  the  total  \\i\\  just  equal  the  $1,000 
of  premium  that  the  bank  has  paid.  Therefore, 
if  we  deduct  $26,  together  with  the  $1,000  tax  to 
be  pr.id  the  Government,  from  the  $8,000  of 
gross  receipts,  we  obtain  net  receipts  of  $6,974, 
in  the  case  of  a  bank  receiving  $100,000  of 
deposits. 

Now  if  a  bank  had  loaned  $101,000  direct,  it 
would  have  received  $6,060  in  interest.  There  is, 
therefore,  a  net  profit,  in  favor  of  a  government 
deposit,  of  $914,  or  .90  per  cent  over  that  which 
would  be  derived  from  loaning  the  money  direct. 
That  is  to  say,  as  against  a  profit  of  6  per  cent 
made  by  loaning  $101,000  direct,  the  bank 
would  have  made  6.90  per  cent,  or  an  excess  of 
.90  per  cent  on  the  money  by  obtaining  a  gov- 
ernment deposit.  A  bank  must,  however,  take 
the  market  chance  of  a  decline  in  the  price  of 
government  bonds. 

A  typical  calculation  as  above  analyzed  would 
be  as  follows: 

93 


Typical  Calculation 


Profit  on  Public  Deposits  Secured  by  Government  Bonds. 
Date  of  calculation,  March  1,  1910. 
Issue  of  bonds  purchased:   United  States  Registered  2%  bonds 
of  1930. 

Price  of  bonds  (101  and  int.),  $101,000. 
Par  value  of  bonds  purchased,  $100,000. 
Money  worth  6  per  cent. 

Income  from  bonds $2,000 

Income  from  deposit  loaned  at  6% 6,000 

$8,000 
Deductions : 

Tax  on  deposits $1,000 

Sinking  Fund  to  retire  premium  on  bonds 
at  maturity,  amount  to  be  set  aside  each 
year 26  1,026 

Net  income  from  deposit $6,974 

Net  income  from  loaning  $101,000  (net  cost  of  bonds 

purchased)  at  6  % 6,060 

Increased  income  from  deposit  over  loaning  cost  of  

bonds  direct $914 

Percentage  of  increased  profit  on  investment .90% 


94 


Calculations  Furnished 


There  are  also  given  typical  calculations 
showing  the  profits  to  be  derived  from  $100,000 
United  States  deposits  secured  by  United  States 
Registered  4's  of  1925,  United  States  Registered 
3's  of  1908-18  (assuming  they  run  until  tlieir 
final  maturity  in  1918),  Panama  2's  of  1916-3G 
and  Panama  2's  of  1918-38,  at  the  asked  prices 
for  each  issue. 

Calculations  are  also  given  showing  the  profits 
to  be  derived  from  District  of  Columbia  3.65's 
maturing  August  1,  1924,  and  the  two  most  ac- 
tive Philippine  issues,  namely,  Philippine  Land 
Purchase  4's  of  1914-34  and  Philippine  Public 
Improvement  4's  of  1919-39. 

These  profits  vary,  of  course,  with  any  fluc- 
tuation in  price  of  bonds,  with  any  variation  in 
the  average  money  market  rate,  and  with  any 
change  in  the  issue  of  bonds  purchased. 

The  National  City  Bank  will  at  any  time  fur- 
nish accurate  calculations  based  upon  any  con- 
ditions of  market  price,  money  market  rate  of 
interest,  and  issues  of  bonds  under  which  a  re- 
sult may  be  desired. 

A  consideration  that  cannot  be  accurately 
weighed,  but  which  in  some  cases  is  neverthe- 
less of  much  importance  in  deciding  whether  or 

95 


Advantage  of  Deposits 


not  a  bank  should  make  efforts  to  obtain  a  pub- 
lic deposit,  is  the  effect  that  such  a  deposit  has 
upon  the  minds  of  the  bank's  clients.  A  bank 
that  is  enabled  to  print  United  States  Govern- 
ment Depositary  on  its  stationery  and  gener- 
ally advertise  the  fact  that  the  Government  has 
confidence  in  it,  may,  in  some  communities,  re- 
ceive considerable  advantage  and  that  factor 
is  always  an  element  of  more  or  less  importance 
with  banks  securing  deposits  of  government 
funds. 


96 


Tabular  Illustration 


Profit  mi  Piiblic  Deposits  Secured  by  Government  Bonds. 

Date  of  calculation,  March  1,  1910. 
Issue  of    bonds   purchased:    United    States    Registered    4%    bonds 
of  1925. 

Price  of  bonds  (115  and  int.),    $115,000. 

Par  value  of  bonds  purchased,  $100,000. 

Money  worth  6  per  cent. 

Income  from  bonds $4,000 

Income  from  deposit  loaned  at  6% 6,000 

$10,000 
Deductions : 

Tax  on  Deposits $1,000 

Sinking  Fund  to  retire  premium  on  bonds 
at  maturity,  amount  to  be  set  aside  each 
year 624        $1,624 

Net  income  from  deposit $8,376 

Net  income  from  loaning  $115,000  (net  cost  of  bonds 

purchased)  at  6% 6,900 


Increased  income  from  deposit  over  loaning  cost  of 

bonds  direct $1,476 

Percentage  of  increased  profit  on  investment 1.28% 


97 


Tabular  Illustration 


Profit  cm  Public  Deposits  Secured  by  Government  Bonds. 
Date  of  calculation,  March  1,  1910. 
Issue  of  bonds  purchased:  United  States  Registered  3%  bonds 
of  1918. 

Price  of  bonds  (102f  and  int.),  $102,750. 

Par  value  of  bonds  purchased,  $100,000. 

Money  worth  6  per  cent. 

Income  from  bonds $3,000 

Income  from  deposit  loaned  at  6% 6,000 

$9,000 
Deductions : 

Tax  on  deposits $1,000 

Sinking  Fund  to  retire  premium  on  bonds 
at  maturity,  amount  to  be  set  aside  each 
year 250  1,250 

Net  income  from  deposit $7,750 

Net  income  from  loaning  $102,750  (net  cost  of  bonds 

purchased)  at  6% 6,165 

Increased  income  from  deposit  over  loaning  cost  of 

bonds  direct $1,585 

Percentage  of  increased  profit  on  investment 1.54% 


98 


Tabular  Illustration 


Profit  on  Public  Deposits  Secured  by  Government  Bonds. 
Date  of  calculation,  March  1,  1910. 
Issue  of  bonds  purchased:  United  States  Panama  Registered  2% 
bonds  of  1916. 

Price  of  bonds  (lOOf  and  int.),  $100,750. 
Par  value  of  bonds  purchased,  $100,000. 
Money  worth  6  per  cent. 

Income  from  bonds $2,000 

Income  from  deposit  loaned  at  6% 6,000 

$8,000 
Deductions : 

Tax  on  deposits $1,000 

Sinking  Fund  to  retire  premium  on  bon,ds 
at  maturity,  amount  to  be  set  aside  each 
year 99  1,099 

Net  income  from  deposit $6,901 

Net  income  from  loaning  $100,750  (net  cost  of  bonds 

purchased)  at  6% 6,045 

Increased  income  from  deposit  over  loaning  cost  of 

bonds  direct $856 

Percentage  of  increased  profit  on  investment .85% 


99 


Tabular  Illustration 


Profit  on  Public  Deposits  Secured  by  Government  Bonds. 
Date  of  calculation,  March  1,  1910. 
Issue  of  bonds  purchased:  United  States  Panama  Registered  2% 
bonds  of  1918. 

Price  of  bonds  (lOOf  and  int.),  $100,750. 
Par  value  of  bonds  purchased,  $100,000. 
Money  worth  6  per  cent. 

Income  from  bonds $2,000 

Income  from  deposit  loaned  at  6% 6,000 

$8,000 
Deductions : 

Tax  on  deposits $1,000 

Sinking  Fund  to  retire  premium  on  bonds 
at  maturity,  amount  to  be  set  aside  each 
year 69  1,069 


Net  income  from  deposit $6,931 

Net  income  from  loaning  $100,750  (net  cost  of  bonds 

purchased)  at  6% 6,045 

Increased  income  from  deposit  over  loaning  cost  of 

bonds  direct $886 

Percentage  of  increased  profit  on  investment .88% 


100 


Tabular  Illustration 


Profit  on  Public  Deposits  Secured  by  Government  Bonds. 
Date  of  calculation,  March  1,  1910. 
Issue  of  bonds  purchased:  District  of  Columbia  3.65%   bonds 
of  19^24. 

Price  of  bonds  (108  and  int.),  $108,000. 
Par  value  of  bonds  purchased,  $100,000. 
Money  worth  6  per  cent. 

Income  from  bonds $3,650 

Income  from  deposit  loaned  at  6% 6,000 

$9,650 
Deductions : 

Tax  on  deposits $1,000 

Sinking  Fund  to  retire  premium  on  bonds 
at  maturity,  amount  to  be  set  aside  each 
year 350  1,350 

Net  income  from  deposit $8,300 

Net  income  from  loaning  $108,000  (net  cost  of  bonds 

purchased)  at  6%, 6,480 

Increased  income  from  deposit  over  loaning  cost  of 

bonds  direct $1,820 

Percentage  of  increased  profit  on  investment 1 .69% 


101 


Tabular  Illustration 


Profit  on  Public  Deposits  Secured  by  Government  Bonds. 
Date  of  calculation,  March  1,  1910. 
Issue    of   bonds   purchased:    Philippine  Land   Purchase   Reg- 
istered 4%  bonds  of  1914. 

Price  of  bonds  (102  and  int.),  $102,000. 
Par  value  of  bonds  purchased,  $100,000. 
Money  worth  6  per  cent. 

Income  from  bonds $4,000 

Income  from  deposit  loaned  at  6% 6,000 

$10,000 
Deductions : 

Tax  on  deposits $1,000 

Sinking  Fund  to  retire  premium  on  bonds 
at  maturity,  amount  to  be  set  aside  each 
year 446  1,446 

Net  income  from  deposit $8,554 

Net  income  from  loaning  $102,000  (net  cost  of  bonds 

purchased)  at  6% 6,120 

Increased  income  from  deposit  over  loaning  cost  of 

bonds  direct $2,434 

Percentage  of  increased  profit  on  investment 2.38% 


102 


Tabular  Illustration 


Profit  on  Public  Deposits  Secured  by  Government  Bonds. 
Date  of  calculation,  March  1,  1910. 
Issue    of    bonds    purchased:    Philippine    Public    Improvement 
Registered  4%  bonds  of  1919. 

Price  of  bonds  (102^  and  int.),  $102,500. 
Par  value  of  bonds  purchased,  $100,000. 
Money  worth  6  per  cent. 

Income  from  bonds $4,000 

Income  from  deposit  loaned  at  6% 6,000 


$10,000 
Deductions : 

Tax  on  deposits $1,000 

Sinking  Fund  to  retire  premium  on  bonds' 
at  maturity,  amount  to  be  set  aside  each 
year 197         1,197 


Net  income  from  deposit $8,803 

Net  income  from  loaning  $102,500  (net  cost  of  bonds 

purchased)  at  6% 6,150 


Increased  income  from  deposit  over  loaning  cost  of 

bonds  direct $2,653 

Percentage  of  increased  profit  on  investment 2.57% 


103 


Official  Reports 

THE  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  requires 
from  every  national  bank  at  least  five 
reports  a  year.  There  are  no  specific 
dates  on  which  such  reports  must  be  submitted, 
the  Comptroller  making  calls  whenever  he 
deems  it  proper,  and  he  may  at  any  time  make 
a  call  on  any  national  bank  for  a  special  report. 
A  bank,  after  it  is  organized,  should  always 
have  on  hand  a  set  of  the  blanks  necessary  to 
make  a  report  of  its  condition.  These  blanks 
can  be  had  upon  application  to  the  Comptroller. 
There  are  two  forms.  One  is  for  a  detailed  re- 
port, which  must  be  filled  out  and  sent  to  the 
Comptroller,  the  other  is  a  corresponding  re- 
port, but  without  the  schedules,  which  must  be 
filled  out  and  sent  for  publication  to  a  newspaper 
in  the  place  where  the  bank  is  established,  or 
if  there  be  no  newspaper  in  the  place,  then  in 
one  published  in  the  nearest  town  in  the  same 
county. 

104 


Publication   of   Report 


After  the  statement  of  a  bank  is  published,  it 
must  be  cut  from  the  newspaper  and  pasted  or 
otherwise  attached  to  the  blank  and  forwarded 
to  the  Comptroller.  The  publisher's  certificate 
must  be  executed.  The  report  that  is  published 
in  the  newspaper  must  be  in  the  same  form  and 
in  the  same  order  of  items  as  the  one  submitted  to 
the  Comptroller,  including  the  full  title  and  loca- 
tion of  the  bank,  the  affidavit  of  the  Cashier,  the 
notary's  certificate  and  the  attestation  of  at  least 
three  directors.  If  any  items  are  blank  in  the 
original  statement,  such  items  may,  of  course, 
be  omitted  from  the  printed  report,  but  the  pub- 
lication must  never  be  condensed  by  combining 
two  or  more  items. 

The  original  report  should  never  be  delayed 
on  account  of  publication.  It  should  be  for- 
warded at  the  earliest  practicable  moment  to  the 
Comptroller  and  publication  should  follow  as 
soon  thereafter  as  possible. 

The  transmission  of  a  report  must  not  be  de- 
layed for  more  than  five  days  after  the  call,  even 
if  by  reason  of  the  absence  or  illness  of  some  of 
the  directors  or  officers  whose  signatures  are  re- 
quired.  The  incomplete  report  should  be  for- 
warded at  once  and  a  copy  retained  for  subse- 

105 


Report   of   Dividend 


quent  completion  and  transmission.  The  origi- 
nal will  be  returned  by  the  Comptroller  upon  re- 
ceipt of  the  complete  report,  in  order  that  it  may 
be  retained  by  the  bank. 

Every  report  of  the  condition  of  a  bank  made 
to  the  Comptroller  must  be  verified  by  the  oath 
of  the  President  or  Cashier  of  the  Association, 
and  must  be  attested  by  the  signatures  of  at 
least  three  of  the  directors.  No  officer  adminis- 
tering the  oath  verifying  the  returns  made  by  a 
national  bank  to  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency 
may  be  an  officer  of  that  bank. 

Every  national  bank  must  report  to  the  Comp- 
troller of  the  Currency,  within  ten  days  after 
declaring  a  dividend,  the  amount  of  such  divi- 
dend and  the  amount  of  net  earnings  in  excess 
of  the  dividend.  These  reports  must  also  be 
attested  by  the  oath  of  the  President  or  Cashier. 

Any  association  that  fails  to  make  and  trans- 
mit reports  of  the  foregoing  character  is  subject 
to  a  penalty  of  $100  for  each  day  after  the  period 
mentioned  that  it  delays  to  make  and  transmit 
such  reports.  If  any  association  refuses  to  pay 
the  penalty,  after  being  assessed  by  the  Comp- 
troller of  the  Currency,  the  amount  of  assessment 
may,  upon  the  order  of  the  Comptroller,  be  re- 

106 


List  of  Stockholders 


tained  by  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States  out 
of  the  interest  as  it  becomes  due  to  the  Associa- 
tion on  the  bonds  deposited  with  him  to  secure 
circulation. 

Whenever  the  stockholders  of  a  bank  vote  to 
go  into  liquidation,  the  Board  of  Directors  must 
cause  notice  of  the  vote  to  be  certified  to  the 
Comptroller  of  the  Currency,  under  the  seal  of 
the  Association,  by  its  President  or  Cashier. 
Publication  of  the  vote  must  also  be  made  for  a 
period  of  two  months  in  each  issue  of  either  a 
daily  or  weekly  newspaper  published  in  the  city 
of  New  York  and  also  in  a  similar  periodical 
published  in  the  city  or  town  in  which  the  Asso- 
ciation is  located. 

The  President  or  Cashier  of  every  national 
bank  must  have  at  all  times  a  full  and  correct 
list  of  the  names  and  residences  of  all  the  share- 
holders of  the  Association  and  the  number  of 
shares  held  by  each.  A  copy  of  this  list,  as  of 
the  first  Monday  of  July  of  each  year,  must  be 
forwarded  to  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency, 
the  copy  being  verified  by  the  oath  of  the  Presi- 
dent or  Cashier. 

Within  ten  days  of  the  first  day  of  January  and 
of   July  every  national   bank   must,   under  the 

107 


liejjort  on  Circulation 


oath  of  its  President  or  Cashier,  make  a  return 
to  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States  of  the 
average  amount  of  its  notes  in  circulation  for 
the  six  months  next  preceding  the  most  recent 
first  days  of  January  and  July.  Any  association 
that  fails  to  make  a  return  of  its  circulation  is 
liable  to  a  penalty  of  $200.  A  blank  for  this 
return  is  given  in  Form  XXV. 

Examinations 

Twice  each  year  the  Comptroller  will  cause 
an  examination  to  be  made  of  the  condition  of 
every  national  bank.  These  examinations  are 
made  without  previous  notice  to  the  bank  and 
the  results  are  reported  to  the  Comptroller,  who 
may  require  the  correction  of  any  conditions 
not  meeting  with  his  approval. 


108 


Corporation  Excise  Tax 

A  NATIONAL  BANK,  in  common  with 
other  corporations,  is  required    by   law 
to  pay  annually  to  the  Government  an 
excise  tax  equivalent  to   1  per   cent  of    its  net 
income  over  and  above  $5,000. 

Net  income  is  ascertained  by  deducting  from 
gross  income  the  following  items :  Ordinary  and 
necessary  expenses,  losses,  depreciation,  interest 
paid  on  indebtedness  and  deposits,  taxes  in- 
curred or  paid  within  the  calendar  year;  also 
dividends  received  from  stocks  of  other  corpora- 
tions subject  to  the  tax.  Gross  income  embraces 
revenue  derived  from  all  sources  during  the 
calendar  year  and  includes  Government  Bond 
interest,  in  accordance  with  a  ruling  of  the  Treas- 
ury Department. 

On  or  before  March  1st  of  each  year,  a  return 
of  net  income  for  the  preceding  calendar  year, 
(see  Form  XXXYII),  verified  by  the  affidavits  of 
the  President  and  Cashier  respectively,  must  be 

109 


Date   for  Payment 


filed  with  the  Collector  of  Internal  Revenue  of 
the  district  in  which  the  bank  is  located.  The 
Collector  may,  in  his  discretion,  grant  an  ex- 
tension of  time  not  exceeding  thirty  days  for 
filing.  Failure  to  make  proper  returns  renders 
the  bank  and  its  officers  liable  to  heavy  penalties. 
Returns,  when  filed,  become  public  records,  and 
are  open  to  inspection.  The  tax  is  payable  on  or 
before  June  30th. 


110 


Notice  of  Shareholders'  Meeting 

UNLESS  the  by-laws  render  it  necessary, 
notice  of  an  annual  meeting  of  the  share- 
holders of  a  national  bank  is  not  required, 
if  the  time  and  place  for  such  meeting  are  stated 
in  the  Articles  of  ^Association,  provided  the  election 
of  directors  is  the  only  business  to  take  place, 
although  usually  such  notice  is  very  properly 
given,  as  shareholders  are  not  presumed  to  re- 
member the  date  on  which  the  annual  meeting 
is  held. 

For  an  annual  meeting  at  which  business  of  an 
unusual  character  is  to  be  transacted  and  for  all 
special  meetings  of  shareholders,  notice  should 
be  given  as  required  by  the  by-laws  and  Articles 
of  Association  of  the  bank.  It  is  customary  to 
provide  in  those  documents  for  notice  of  such 
meetings.  If  no  provision  is  made,  however, 
it  is  held  that  a  thirty  days'  notice  should  be 
given. 

The  notice  of  the  meeting  must  accompany 

111 


Official  Notice 


any  papers  transmitted  to  the  Comptroller. 
This  notice  should  give  the  date  of  issue  and 
should  state  clearly — 

First:         The  place  for  holding  the  meeting. 

Second :     The  time,  specifying  the  hour. 

Third:  The  business  proposed  to  be  trans- 
acted. 

(See  Form  XXXVIII  for  notice  of  meeting.) 


112 


Extension  of  Corporate  Existence 

THE  existence  of  a  national  bank  may  be 
extended  for  a  period  of  twenty  years 
from  the  date  of  the  expiration  of  its 
original  charter.  This  date  may  be  ascertained 
from  the  date  of  the  last  acknowledgment  in  the 
Organization  Certificate.  If  for  any  reason 
that  date  is  uncertain  or  the  certificate  has  been 
lost,  information  on  this  point  may  be  obtained 
from  the  Comptroller's  office.  Application  for 
such  extension  may  be  filed  w^ith  the  Comptroller 
at  any  time  within  two  years  prior  to  the  expira- 
tion. The  necessary  blanks  and  instructions 
will  be  furnished  a  sufficient  time  in  advance  to 
enable  banks  to  take  advantage  of  this  privilege. 
In  this  connection,  it  should  be  noticed,  however, 
tliat  this  application  should  be  filed  at  least  two 
months  prior  to  the  expiration  of  the  charter. 

Application  for  the  extension  of  the  corporate 
existence  of  a  national  bank  must  be  made  to 
the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  by  the  Presi- 

113 


Amending  Articles 


dent  or  Cashier  under  the  conditions  set  forth  in 
the  foregoing  paragraph.  This  application 
should  be  as  given  in  Form  XXXIX,  which  in- 
cludes an  amendment  to  the  Articles  of  Asso- 
ciation. It  is  not  necessary  to  hold  a  meeting 
of  stockholders  for  the  purpose  of  securing  their 
consent  to  the  amendment  of  the  Articles  of 
Association.  Such  amendment,  however,  must 
bear  the  written  signatures  of  the  holders,  or 
their  legal  representatives,  of  at  least  two-thirds 
of  the  capital  stock. 

If  it  is  desired  to  have  represented  in  the 
amendment  to  the  Articles  of  Association  shares 
of  stock  standing  in  the  names  of  administrators, 
executors,  trustees,  or  guardians,  certified  copies 
of  the  legal  appointment  of  such  administrators, 
executors,  trustees,  or  guardians  should  be  fur- 
nished to  the  bank.  If  stock  held  by  an  assignee 
is  to  be  represented,  the  shares  must  have  been 
formally  transferred  to  him  on  the  bank's  books. 
If  the  amendment  to  the  Articles  of  Association 
is  signed  by  attorneys  acting  for  shareholders,  or 
by  an  oflScer  of  any  corporation,  properly  exe- 
cuted powers  of  attorney  or  other  authority 
should  be  required.  These  powers  of  attorney, 
however,  should  be  retained  in  the  files  of  the 

114 


Special   EcVamination 


bank  and  not  forwarded  to  the  Comptroller. 
(See  Forms  XL  and  XLI.) 

The  execution  of  the  amendment  of  Articles 
of  Association  should  be  certified  to  the  Comp- 
troller of  the  Currency  by  the  President  or 
Cashier  under  seal  of  the  Association.  This 
certification  should  be  executed  in  duplicate  in 
accordance  with  Form  XLII,  one  copy  to  be 
forwarded  to  the  Comptroller  and  one  to  be  re- 
tained by  the  bank. 

When  the  foregoing  papers  have  been  exe- 
cuted in  due  form  and  forwarded  to  the  Comp- 
troller, the  remaining  step  necessary  is  a  special 
examination  of  the  condition  of  the  Association. 
This  examination  must  be  paid  for  by  the  bank. 
If  the  report  of  the  examiner  is  favorable,  the 
Comptroller  will,  at  the  date  of  the  expiration  of 
the  Charter,  issue  a  certificate  of  extension,  as 
given  in  Form  XLIIL* 

It  is  required  by  law  that  the  circulating  notes 
issued  to  a  bank  after  the  date  of  the  Certificate 
of  Extension  of  corporate  existence,  shall  be  of 
different    design    from    those    issued    under    its 

*  The  regulations  of  the  Comptroller's  office  require  the  publication 
of  this  CertiBcate  of  Extension  for  thirty  days  in  each  issue  of  a  local 
newspaper. 

115 


Issuing  New  Notes 


original  charter.  This  renders  necessary  the 
engraving  of  new  plates,  which  are  prepared  at 
the  expense  of  the  bank.  In  Form  XLIV  is  given 
the  order  for  the  engraving  of  new  plates  and  the 
printing  of  new  circulation.  This  order  should  be 
filled  out  in  a  manner  similar  to  that  provided  for 
the  original  order  of  circulation,  as  explained  in 
the  chapter  on  circulation,  and  should  be  for- 
warded to  the  Comptroller  with  the  amendment 
for  extension. 

The  new  notes  are  retained  by  the  office  of  the 
Comptroller  of  the  Currency,  and  as  the  old 
issues  are  received  for  redemption  the  new  issues 
are  substituted.  This  practice  may  continue 
until  the  end  of  three  years  from  the  date  of 
extension,  when  the  law  requires  a  deposit  of 
lawful  money  for  the  redemption  of  such  portion 
of  the  old  circulation  as  may  then  remain  out- 
standing. This  deposit  of  lawful  money  may  be 
made  in  full  at  any  time  prior  to  the  expiration 
of  the  three-year  period  if  it  is  desired  to  provide 
at  any  time  for  the  redemption  of  the  old  issues, 
and  this  course  is  advised  as  soon  as  the  bank  is 
notified  that  notes  of  the  new  design  are  ready 
for  delivery. 

It  is  not  necessary  for  a  bank  extending  its 

116 


Assent   of  Shareholders 


corporate  existence  to  make  any  transfer  of  bonds 
held  by  the  Treasurer  in  trust,  as  the  extended 
association  is  in  all  respects  the  same  as  before 
extension. 

There  may  be  occasions  when  a  shareholder 
does  not  wish  to  assent  to  the  extension  of  the 
corporate  existence  of  a  national  bank.  In 
this  event  he  may,  within  thirty  days  from  the 
date  of  the  Comptroller's  Certificate  of  Approval 
of  Extension,  give  notice  in  writing  to  the  direct- 
ors of  his  desire  to  withdraw  from  the  Associa- 
tion. He  will  then  be  entitled  to  receive  from 
the  bank  the  value  of  the  shares  held  by  him. 
This  value  is  to  be  ascertained  by  an  appraisal 
made  by  a  committee  of  three  persons,  one  to  be 
selected  by  the  shareholder,  one  by  the  directors, 
and  the  third  by  the  two  persons  so  chosen.  If 
the  value  fixed  by  this  committee  is  not  satis- 
factory to  the  shareholder,  he  may  appeal  to  the 
Comptroller  of  the  Currency.  The  Comptroller 
will  then  cause  a  reappraisal  to  be  made.  This 
reappraisal  will  be  final  and  binding.  If  the 
reappraisal  exceeds  the  value  fixed  by  the  com- 
mittee, the  expense  of  the  reappraisal  must  be 
paid  by  the  bank,  otherwise  the  shareholder 
appealing  to  the  Comptroller  must  pay  the  ex- 

117 


Sale   of  Shares 


pense.  The  value  ascertained  and  determined 
in  the  manner  set  forth  must  be  paid  to  the 
shareholder  by  the  bank.  The  shares  thus  sur- 
rendered must  be  sold  at  public  sale  after  due 
notice  within  thirty  days  after  the  final  appraisal. 


118 


Re-extension  of  Corporate  Existence 

THE  existence  of  a  national  bank  may,  if 
desired,  be  re-extended  for  a  further 
period  of  twenty  years  from  the  date  of 
expiration  of  the  original  extension  of  charter. 
If  it  is  desired  to  do  this,  an  amendment  of  the 
Articles  of  Association  should  be  executed  and 
certified  to  the  Comptroller. 

The  amendment  of  Articles  of  Association 
and  the  certificate  to  the  Comptroller  are  simi- 
lar to  Form  XXXIX,  with  the  exception  that 
following  the  words,  "approved  July  12,  1882," 
should  appear  the  phrase,  "and  the  amendment 
approved  April  12,  1902." 

In  accordance  with  the  last  paragraph  of  the 
certificate  to  the  Comptroller,  it  is  assumed  that 
when  shareholders  representing  the  requisite 
number  of  shares  of  stock  have  consented  in 
writing  to  the  extension  of  the  charter,  the  Board 
of  Directors  will  adopt  a  resolution,  in  a  form 
to  be  determined  by  them,  to  be  incorporated 

119 


Re-extending  Charter 


in  the  minute  book  of  the  bank.  It  shoukl  be 
noted  in  this  connection  that  the  resolution  of  the 
directors  and  the  recording  of  the  amendment 
must  be  of  the  same  date  as  or  later  date  than 
that  of  the  signature  of  the  last  shareholder 
signing  the  paper. 

Such  other  forms  and  proceedings  as  are 
necessary  in  connection  with  the  re-extension  of 
corporate  existence  are  similar  to  those  used  for 
the  original  extension,  with  the  exception  of  the 
Certificate  Re-extending  Charter,  which  is  given 
in  Form  XLV.* 

A  bank  re-extending  its  corporate  existence 
is  subject  to  the  same  regulations  with  regard 
to  the  change  of  design  of  its  circulating  notes  as 
is  a  bank  extending  its  corporate  existence  for 
the  first  time.  An  explanation  of  these  regula- 
tions will  be  found  under  the  chapter  on  Exten- 
sion of  Corporate  Existence  on  page  115. 

*  The  regulations  of  the  Comptroller's  office  require  the  publication 
for  thirty  days  in  each  issue  of  a  local  newspaper  of  this  certificate  of 
re-extension. 


120 


Expiration  of  Corporate  Existence 

UNLESS  the  corporate  existence  of  a 
national  bank  is  extended,  as  provided  by 
the  Act  of  July  12,  1882,  or  the  Act  of 
April  12,  1902,  the  charter  will  expire  by  limita- 
tion at  the  expiration  of  the  twenty  years  dating 
from  the  execution  of  the  organization  certificate 
or  first  extension,  as  the  case  may  be.  The  affairs 
of  a  bank  whose  corporate  existence  has  expired 
by  limitation  must  be  settled  in  the  same  manner 
as  in  the  case  of  voluntary  liquidation  by  reso- 
lution of  shareholders.*  The  President  or 
Cashier  of  the  bank  is  required  to  execute  and 
forward  to  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  a 
Certificate  to  that  efi^ect  similar  to  Form  XL VI, 
and  Notice  of  Expiration,  with  advice  to  all  note 
holders  and  other  creditors  of  the  association,  to 
present  the  notes  and  other  claims  against  the 
association  for  payment.  This  notice  must  be 
given  by  publication  in  each  issue  of  a  local  and 
New  York  City  newspaper  for  a  period  of  two 

*  The  association  continues  as  a  body  corporate  for  the  sole  purpose 
of  suing  and  being  suetl  until  its  affairs  are  settled. 

121 


Notice  of  Expiration 


months,  evidence  of  such  publication  to  be  sub- 
mitted to  the  Comptroller  as  in  the  case  of 
voluntary  liquidation.  The  wording  of  the 
Notice  of  Expiration  is  given  in  Form  XLVI, 
following  the  Certificate  of  Expiration  of  Cor- 
porate Existence. 


122 


Changes  in  Capital  Stock 

A  NATIONAL  banking  association  may 
at  any  time  increase  its  capital  stock, 
but  before  taking  any  steps  to  this  end 
it  should  first  advise  the  Comptroller  and  se- 
cure his  approval  of  the  proposed  action.  The 
Comptroller  will  then  furnish  the  necessary 
blanks  and  instructions  for  procedure.  A  meet- 
ing of  shareholders  must  then  be  called.  A 
notice  for  this  purpose  is  given  in  Form  XXXVIII. 

If  the  approval  of  the  holders  of  two-thirds 
of  the  stock  is  given  to  the  proposed  increase, 
the  President  or  Cashier  of  the  Bank  must  cer- 
tify to  the  Comptroller  the  adoption  of  a  Reso- 
lution to  Increase  the  Capital  Stock,  as  given 
in  Form  XL VII. 

The  whole  amount  of  the  contemplated  in- 
crease must  be  paid  in  cash,  and  no  increase  is 
valid  until  this  entire  amount  is  paid  and  the 
Comptroller  has  issued  his  certificate  of  approval, 
naming  the  sum  which  is  to  constitute  tlie  capi- 

123 


Increase  of  Capital 


tal  of  the  bank  in  the  future.  If  the  increase  of 
capital  renders  the  deposit  of  additional  bonds 
necessary  (see  table  on  page  3),  this  action 
must  be  taken  before  the  issuance  of  the  Comp- 
troller's certificate.  Formal  notice  of  the  pay- 
ment of  the  increase  in  capital  must  also  be 
certified  to  the  Comptroller  by  the  President  or 
Cashier,  in  accordance  with  Form  XL VIII. 

If  it  is  the  desire  of  the  shareholders  to  use  a 
portion  of  the  money  in  the  surplus  fund  or  at 
the  credit  of  undivided  profits  for  the  purpose  of 
increasing  the  capital  stock  of  the  bank,  the 
Board  of  Directors  may  in  the  regular  course 
declare  a  dividend.  The  money  thus  provided 
may  then  be  used  for  the  purpose.  Only  such 
portion  of  the  surplus  fund  as  exceeds  the  amount 
required  by  law  to  be  set  aside  may  be  applied 
to  the  increase  in  capital  in  the  manner  indicated. 
The  requirements  of  the  law  with  regard  to  the 
surplus  fund  of  a  national  bank  are  as  follows : 

Each  bank  must,  before  the  declaration  of  a 
dividend,  carry  to  its  surplus  fund  one- tenth  of 
its  net  profits  for  the  preceding  half  year  until 
the  surplus  fund  amounts  to  20  per  cent  of  the 
capital  stock  of  the  bank. 

If  a  national  bank  desires  to  reduce  its  capi- 

124 


Reduction  of  Capital 


tal  stock,  it  should  follow  practically  the  same 
procedure  as  that  required  for  an  increase. 
That  is  to  say,  it  should  notify  the  Comptroller 
of  its  intention,  and  upon  receiving  his  approval 
together  with  the  necessary  blanks  and  instruc- 
tions, call  a  meeting  of  the  shareholders  (as 
provided  in  Form  XXXVIII)  to  vote  upon  the 
proposition.  At  this  meeting  the  shareholders 
may,  by  a  vote  of  those  holding  two-thirds  of  the 
stock,  reduce  the  capital  to  any  sum  not  below 
the  minimum  amount  required  by  the  National 
Bank  Act.     (See  table  on  page  3.) 

The  President  or  Cashier  of  the  bank  must 
then  certify  to  the  Comptroller  the  adoption  of  a 
Resolution  to  Reduce  Capital  Stock,  as  given  in 
Form  XLIX. 

If  the  circulating  notes  of  a  bank  proposing  to 
reduce  its  capital  are  in  excess  of  the  sum  de- 
termined upon  as  the  new  capital  of  the  bank, 
this  circulation  must,  by  a  deposit  of  lawful 
money  with  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States, 
be  reduced  to  an  amount  not  in  excess  of  the 
proposed  future  capital.  A  bank  retiring  circu- 
lation in  connection  with  a  reduction  of  its  capi- 
tal stock  is  not  subject  to  the  provision  limiting 
the  retirement  of  circulation  by  the  deposit  of 

125 


New   Stock  Certificates 


law'ful  money  to  $9,000,000  in  any  one  month. 

When  the  reduction  is  made,  the  shareholders 
should  return  their  old  certificates  to  the  bank 
for  cancellation.  New  certificates  based  on 
the  reduced  capital  should  then  be  issued.  It 
is  lawful  to  issue  certificates  for  fractional  shares 
but  it  is  desirable  to  avoid  this  when  possible. 

No  part  of  the  reduction  of  the  capital  may  be 
carried  to  the  credit  of  surplus  or  undivided 
profits  without  the  unanimous  consent  of  the 
shareholders. 

When  the  above  requirements  have  been  com- 
plied with,  the  Comptroller  will  issue  a  certifi- 
cate approving  the  reduction  of  capital  as  applied 
for,  but  will  be  governed,  as  to  time,  by  the  word- 
ing of  the  resolution.  If  no  date  is  fixed  he  will 
issue  his  certificate  of  approval  upon  compli- 
ance by  the  association  with  all  conditions 
precedent. 


126 


Change  of  Name  or  Location 

A  NATIONAL  bank  may,  at  any  time, 
change  its  name.  It  may  also  change 
the  place  where  its  operations  are  car- 
ried on  to  any  other  locality  in  the  same  State 
not  more  than  thirty  miles  distant. 

WTien  a  bank  desires  to  make  either  one  or 
both  of  the  foregoing  changes,  it  should  first 
correspond  with  the  Comptroller  of  the  Cur- 
rency. If  the  proposition  submitted  meets  with 
his  approval,  a  meeting  of  shareholders  should 
be  called.  (See  Form  XXXVIII  for  notice.)  At 
this  meeting  the  proposed  change  must  receive 
the  approval  of  the  owners  of  at  least  two-thirds 
of  the  capital  stock  of  the  association. 

A  copy  of  the  notice  of  the  meeting  referred 
to,  together  with  a  certified  copy,  under  seal 
of  the  bank,  of  the  resolutions  showing  in 
detail  the  vote  by  which  they  were  adopted, 
must  be  sent  to  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency. 
(See      Form      L     for     form     of      resolutions.) 

127 


Transfer  of   Bonds 


The  correctness  of  these  resolutions  must  be 
certified  to  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  by 
the  President  or  Cashier. 

In  connection  with  any  change  in  the  name  or 
location  of  a  bank  it  is  necessary  for  the  Board 
of  Directors  to  execute  a  resolution  in  accordance 
with  Form  XXII,  authorizing  the  Comptroller  of 
the  Currency  to  withdraw  the  bonds  deposited 
in  trust  for  the  bank,  and  further  authorizing 
the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States  to  transfer 
those  bonds  to  the  ''Treasurer  U.  S.  in  trust  for 

to    conform    to    change    of    title." 

The  Treasurer's  receipts  for  the  bonds  proposed 
to  be  withdrawn  must  be  forwarded  with  this 
resolution  to  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency. 

At  the  same  time,  the  bank  must  transmit 
to  the  Comptroller  an  order  for  new  plates  and 
circulating  notes.  This  order  should  be  headed 
Change  of  Title,  and  should  be  as  given  in 
Form  XX.  All  regulations  regarding  a  bank's 
original  order  for  plates  and  circulation  apply  to 
this  order  on  account  of  change  of  title  and  should 
be  carefully  followed.  Complete  information 
on  this  point  is  given  in  the  chapter  on  National 
Bank  Note  Circulation  on  page  25. 

If  all  papers  in  connection  with  the  proposed 

128 


Comptroller's  Certificate 


change  are  properly  executed,  the  Comptroller 
will  issue  a  certificate  of  approval.  The  bank 
may  then  commence  business  under  the  new 
name  or  in  the  new  location. 


129 


Liquidation 

IF  IT  is  desired  to  discontinue  the  existence 
of  a  national  bank,  the  directors  should 
make  application  to  the  Comptroller  of  the 
Currency  for  his  approval.  If  the  bank  is  sol- 
vent there  will  be  no  objection  on  the  part  of  the 
Comptroller  to  this  step,  and  he  will  furnish  the 
necessary  blanks  and    instructions. 

A  notice  in  accordance  with  Form  XXXVIII 
should  be  sent  to  shareholders  to  the  effect  that  a 
meeting  is  to  be  held  to  vote  upon  the  question 
of  liquidation. 

The  votes  of  shareholders  owning  not  less  than 
two-thirds  of  the  capital  stock  of  the  bank  are 
necessary  in  order  to  liquidate  an  association. 
When  a  meeting  has  been  held  and  a  resolu- 
tion similar  to  Form  LI  has  been  adopted 
by  the  required  two- thirds  vote,  the  Board 
of  Directors,  through  the  President  or  Cashier, 
should  send  a  copy  of  the  resolution  to  the  Comp- 
troller of  the  Currency,  and  must  notify  the 
creditors  of  the  bank  to  present  notes  and  other 

130 


Publication  of  Notice 


claims  against  the  association  for  payment,  and 
request  the  settlement  of  obligations  to  the  insti- 
tution. (See  Form  LII  for  notice.)  The 
notice  must  appear  for  a  period  of  two  months 
in  each  issue  of  some  newspaper  published  in  the 
city  of  New  York  and  also  in  a  newspaper  pub- 
lished in  or  near  the  city  in  which  the  bank  is 
located.  A  certificate  of  each  publisher  that  the 
required  publication  has  been  made,  together 
with  the  notice  from  one  issue  of  the  newspaper, 
should  be  sent  to  the  office  of  the  Comptroller  of 
the  Currency.  This  publication  certificate  may 
be  in  accordance  with  Form  LIII. 

Within  six  months  after  the  shareholders  have 
voted  to  liquidate,  a  national  bank  must  de- 
posit with  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States 
lawful  money  in  an  amount  sufficient  to  re- 
deem all  of  its  outstanding  circulation.  A 
bank  retiring  circulation  for  the  purpose  of  go- 
ing into  voluntary  liquidation  is,  however,  not 
subject  to  the  provision  limiting  the  retirement 
of  circulation  to  $9,000,000  in  any  one  month. 
The  Treasurer  of  the  United  States  will  issue 
duplicate  receipts  for  the  money  deposited  with 
him;  one  of  these  receipts  will  be  sent  to  the 
liquidating  bank  and  the  other  to  the  Comptroller 

131 


Withdrawal   of    Bonds 


of  the  Currency.  The  receipts  will  state  the 
amount  received  by  the  Treasurer  and  the 
purpose  for  which  it  is  deposited  with  him.  The 
money  is  paid  into  the  Treasury  of  the  United 
States  to  the  credit  of  the  association  deposit- 
ing it,  and  is  held  in  the  redemption  account. 

Whenever  a  deposit  of  lawful  money  is 
made  in  an  amount  suflScient  to  redeem  the 
outstanding  circulation  of  a  liquidating  associa- 
tion, the  bonds  held  by  the  Treasurer  as  security 
for  the  payment  of  such  circulation  will  be  re- 
assigned to  the  bank.  The  association  and  its 
shareholders  will  then  be  discharged  from  all 
liabilities  connected  with  its  circulating  notes, 
and  such  notes  will  be  redeemed  at  the  Treasury 
of  the  United  States  and  charged  to  the  redemp- 
tion account. 

If  any  liquidating  bank  fails  to  make  the  neces- 
sary deposit  of  lawful  money  for  thirty  days  after 
the  expiration  of  six  months,  the  Comptroller  of 
the  Currency  is  authorized  to  sell  at  public 
auction  in  the  city  of  New  York  the  bonds 
pledged  as  security  for  the  circulation  of  the 
bank.  If  the  proceeds  of  such  sale  exceed  the 
amount  necessary  to  be  provided  for  the  redemp- 
tion and  cancellation  of  the  circulation  of  the 

132 


t: 


Dividing  Surplus 


bank  and  the  necessary  expenses  of  the  sale  of 
its  bonds,  any  surplus  remaining  will  be  paid  by 
the  Comptroller  to  the  bank  or  its  legal  repre- 
sentatives. The  shareholders,  into  whose  hands 
the  affairs  of  a  liquidating  bank  pass,  are  gener- 
ally regarded  as  the  legal  representatives  of  the 
association. 

A  national  bank  which  is  in  good  faith  liqui- 
dating for  the  purpose  of  consolidating  with 
another  association  is  not  required  to  deposit 
lawful  money  for  the  redemption  of  its  out- 
standing circulation;  but  it  has  been  found 
more  advantageous  to  the  banks  concerned  to 
close  the  old  circulation  account  by  depositing 
lawful  money,  withdrawing  the  bonds,  and 
having  them  redeposited  with  the  Treasurer  as 
security  for  a  like  amount  of  circulation  of  the 
absorbing  bank.  This  procedure  is  ad\T[sed  by 
the  Comptroller.  The  assets  and  liabilities  of 
the  liquidating  bank  are,  however,  to  be  reported 
to  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  by  the  asso- 
ciation with  which  it  is  consolidating. 


183 


Restrictions 

NO  national  bank  may  be  organized  with 
a  capital  less  than  $25,000. 
No  national  bank  may  be  organized 
with  a  capital  less  than  $50,000  in  a  town  with 
a  population  of  over  3,000. 

No  national  bank  may  be  organized  with  a 
capital  less  than  $100,000  in  a  town  with  a  popu- 
lation of  over  6,000. 

No  national  bank  may  be  organized  with  a 
capital  less  than  $200,000  in  a  town  with  a  popu- 
lation of  over  50,000. 

No  shares  of  a  national  bank  may  be  issued  of 
a  face  value  other  than  $100,  except  in  the  case 
of  a  converted  state  bank,  the  shares  of  which 
had  a  face  value  of  more  or  less  than  $100. 

No  national  bank  may  commence  business 
until  50  per  cent  of  its  capital  has  been  paid 
in.  The  remainder  must  be  paid  in  monthly 
instalments  of  at  least  10  per  cent  of  the  whole 
amount  of  the  capital. 

134 


Restrictions 


No  less  than  five  natural  persons  may  organize 
a  national  bank. 

No  national  bank  may  transact  business,  ex- 
cept that  which  is  incidental  to  its  organization, 
until  it  has  been  authorized  by  the  Comptroller 
to  do  so. 

No  national  bank  may  have  less  than  five 
directors. 

No  person  may  be  a  director  of  a  national  bank 
unless  he  is  a  citizen  of  the  United  States. 

No  less  than  three-fourths  of  the  directors  of  a 
national  bank  must  have  resided  in  the  State, 
territory,  or  district  in  v^^hich  the  bank  is  located 
for  at  least  one  year  immediately  preceding  their 
election,  and  must  continue  as  residents  of  the 
State  during  their  term  of  office. 

No  director  of  a  national  bank  may  own  less 
than  ten  shares  of  its  capital  stock  unless  the 
capital  of  the  bank  shall  not  exceed  $25,000,  in 
which  case  he  must  own  at  least  five  shares,  and 
such  stock,  while  he  is  serving  in  the  capacity  of 
a  director,  may  not  be  hypothecated  or  pledged 
for  a  loan  or  for  a  debt. 

No  officer  or  employee  of  a  bank  may  act  as 
proxy  for  one  of  the  stockholders,  and  directors 

135 


Restrictions 


are  held  by  the  Comptroller  to  be  officers  within 
the  meaning  of  this  prohibition. 

No  shareholder  in  a  national  bank  whose  sub- 
scription to  the  capital  stock  is  past  due  and 
unpaid  shall  be  allowed  to  vote  at  any  of  the 
meetings  of  the  shareholders  until  such  payment 
has  been  made. 

No  executors,  administrators,  guardians  and 
trustees  are  personally  liable  as  stockholders  of 
a  national  bank,  but  the  estates  which  they  rep- 
resent are  equally  liable  with  other  stockholders. 

No  shareholder  in  a  national  bank  is  liable  for 
another  shareholder,  but  each  shareholder,  in 
addition  to  the  amount  invested  in  the  bank's 
shares,  is  equally  liable  for  all  debts,  contracts, 
and  engagements  of  the  bank  to  the  amount  of 
the  stock  he  holds  therein  at  its  par  value.  This 
is  known  as  the  *' double  liability"  clause  of  the 
National  Bank  Act. 

No  increase  in  the  capital  of  a  national  bank 
is  valid  until  it  has  all  been  paid  in  and  the 
Comptroller's  Certificate  of  Approval  obtained. 

No  reduction  may  be  made  in  the  capital  of  a 
national  bank  below  the  amount  of  its  outstand- 
ing circulation  secured  by  United  States  bonds, 
unless  lawful  money  is  deposited  with  the  Treas- 

136 


Restrictions 


urer  of  the  United  States  for  the  redemption  of 
the  excess,  and  no  reduction  may  be  made  until 
the  amount  has  been  reported  to  the  Comptroller 
and  has  been  sanctioned  by  him. 

No  more  than  $9,000,000  in  lawful  money  may 
be  deposited  by  national  banks  in  one  month 
with  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States  for  the 
redemption  of  their  circulation.  This  restriction 
does  not  apply  to  banks  upon  going  into  volun- 
tary liquidation,  nor  to  banks  reducing  their 
capital  to  an  amount  less  than  their  outstanding 
circulation. 

No  national  bank  shall  issue  post  notes  or  other 
notes  to  circulate  as  money,  except  such  as  are 
authorized  by  the  National  Bank,  Act. 

No  national  bank  shall  be  a  member  of  a 
clearing  house  that  does  not  accept  United  States 
Gold  and  Silver  certificates  in  the  settlements  of 
clearing-house  balances. 

No  step  toward  the  conversion  of  a  state  bank 
into  a  national  bank  may  be  taken  without  the 
approval  of  the  owners  of  two-thirds  of  the 
capital  stock. 

No  converted  institution  may  have  a  less  capi- 
tal than  that  prescribed  for  national  banks  in  the 
National  Bank  Act. 

137 


Restrictions 


No  national  bank  tliat  clianges  its  name  and 
its  location  is  thereby  released  from  any  of  its  old 
liabilities,  nor  does  such  change  affect  any  action 
or  proceeding  in  which  sucli  an  association  may 
have  been  interested  or  taken  part. 

No  tax,  other  than  that  due  and  payable  prior 
to  the  deposit,  shall  be  levied  on  the  circulation  of 
a  national  bank  which  has  deposited  with  the 
Treasurer  of  the  United  States  legal  tender  for 
the  redemption  of  such  circulation. 

No  bank  that  is  deficient  in  its  reserve  require- 
ments shall  increase  its  liabilities  by  making  any 
new  loans  or  discounts  otherwise  than  by  dis- 
counting or  purchasing  bills  of  exchange  payable 
at  sight,  nor  shall  it  declare  any  dividend  out  of 
its  profits. 

No  national  bank  in  a  Central  Reserve  City 
may  deposit  any  portion  of  its  required  reserve 
with  another  bank.  It  must  keep  all  reserve  in 
its  own  vault. 

No  national  bank  in  a  Reserve  City  may 
deposit  any  of  its  required  reserve  with  other 
banks  in  Reserve  Cities,  but  may  deposit  one- 
half  in  banks  in  a  Central  Reserve  City. 

No  national  bank  in  an  Undesignated  Com- 
munity may  hold  the  reserve  of  any  other  national 

138 


Restrictions 


bank.  Such  banks  must  keep  at  least  two-fifths  of 
their  required  reserve  of  15  per  cent  in  lawful 
money  in  their  own  vaults.  The  remainder  may 
be  deposited  with  a  national  bank  in  a  Reserve 
City  or  with  a  bank  in  a  Central  Reserve  City. 

No  organization  of  a  national  bank  is  complete 
until  its  bonds  have  been  deposited  with  the 
Treasurer  of  the  United  States.  The  amount 
required  is  one-fourth  of  the  bank's  capital, 
unless  such  capital  is  more  than  $150,000.  In 
that  event  $50,000  is  the  amount  of  the  required 
deposit. 

No  bank  may  take  out  more  than  one-third  of 
its  circulating  notes  in  $5  denominations. 

No  national  bank's  circulation  may  exceed  the 
amount  of  the  bank's  paid-in  capital,  except  as 
provided  by  the  Act  of  May  30,  1908. 

No  notes  presented  by  a  bank  for  redemption 
may  be  in  sums  of  less  than  $1,000. 

No  deduction  is  made  by  the  Treasury  Depart- 
ment from  the  5  per  cent  fund  on  account  of 
notes  of  a  national  bank  that  have  been  *lost, 
stolen,  or  put  in  circulation  without  the  proper 
signatures  of  the  officers. 

No  national  bank  may  refuse  to  receive  at  their 
par  value  the  notes  of  any  other  national  banks. 

139 


Restrictions 


No  national  bank  shall  pay  out  the  notes  of 
any  national  bank  that  is  not  redeeming  its  cir- 
culation in  lawful  money  of  the  United  States. 

No  National  Currency  Association  may  be 
organized  without  the  approval  of  the  Secretary 
of  the  Treasury. 

No  additional  circulation  may  be  issued  unless 
the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  recognizes  a 
demand  for  such  circulation. 

No  National  Bank  may  be  a  member  of  a 
National  Currency  Association  which  has  not 
been  approved  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 

No  more  than  one  National  Currency  Asso- 
ciation may  be  formed  in  any  city. 

No  National  Bank  may  issue  additional  circu- 
lation individually,  except  with  the  approval  of 
the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 

No  National  Bank  whose  surplus  is  not  equal 
to  20  per  cent  of  its  capital  may,  either  individu- 
ally or  as  a  member  of  a  National  Currency 
Association,  issue  additional  circulation. 

No  National  Bank,  individually  or  as  a 
member  of  a  National  Currency  Association, 
may  issue  additional  circulation  unless  its  out- 
standing circulation  secured  by  United  States 
bonds  is  equal  to  40  per  cent  of  its  capital. 


140 


No  less  than  5  per  cent  of  the  amount  of  out- 
standing additional  circulation  shall  be  main- 
tained with  the  Treasurer  as  a  redemption  fund. 


Restrictions 


No  additional  circulation  may  be  issued  in 
excess  of  75  per  cent  of  the  cash  value  of  general 
securities  or  commercial  paper  deposited  with 
a  National  Currency  Association. 

No  National  Bank,  member  of  a  National 
Currency  Association,  may  issue  additional 
circulation  secured  by  the  deposit  of  commercial 
paper  to  the  extent  of  more  than  30  per  cent  of 
its  capital  and  surplus. 

No  additional  circulation  may  be  issued  in 
excess  of  90  per  cent  of  the  market  value  of 
state,  city,  county,  town  or  municipal  bonds 
deposited  with  a  National  Currency  Association. 
Such  bonds,  moreover,  must  conform  to  the 
requirements  of  the  Act  of  May  30,  1908. 

No  less  than  10  per  cent  of  the  amount  of  out- 
standing additional  circulation  shall  be  main- 
tained with  the  Treasurer  as  a  redemption  fund. 

No  more  than  $500,000,000  additional  circu- 
lation may  be  outstanding  at  any  one  time  in  the 
entire  United  States. 

No  bank  shall  make  less  tlian  five  reports  dur- 
ing each  year,  according  to  the  form  which  may 
be  prescribed  by  the  Comptroller  of  the  Cur- 
rency. 

141 


Restrictions 


No  reports  of  condition  or  of  earnings  and 
dividends  shall  be  made  by  a  national  bank  to 
the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  without  being 
sworn  to  before  a  Notary  Public  or  some  other 
oflBcer  having  an  oflScial  seal  with  proper  authority 
to  administer  oaths. 

No  oflScers  of  a  national  bank  making  such  a 
report  may  administer  an  oath  thereto. 

No  corporate  existence  of  a  bank  may  be  ex- 
tended without  the  consent  in  writing  of  share- 
holders owning  not  less  than  two-thirds  of  the 
capital  stock  of  such  an  association. 

No  association  that  has  defaulted  in  the  pay- 
ment of  its  circulating  notes  shall  pay  out  such 
notes,  discount  any  notes  or  bills,  or  otherwise 
continue  the  business  of  banking,  except  to 
receive  and  safely  keep  money  belonging  to  it 
and  to  deliver  special  deposits. 

No  officer,  clerk,  or  agent  of  a  national  bank 
shall  certify  a  check  drawn  upon  the  association 
unless  the  person  or  company  drawing  the  check 
has  at  the  time  on  deposit  with  the  association  an 
amount  of  money  equal  to  the  amount  specified 
in  the  check. 

No  national  bank  may  purchase  or  hold  any 
real  estate,  outside  of  the  property  on  which  it 

142 


Restrictions 


is  doing  business,  except  in  cases  where  it  is 
necessary  to  take  real  estate  in  payment  for  a  bad 
debt.  When  a  bank  is  compelled  to  do  this,  it 
must  dispose  of  such  real  estate  within  five  years 
thereafter. 

No  rate  of  interest  shall  be  charged  by  a 
national  bank  that  is  in  excess  of  the  interest 
rate  allowed  by  the  regulations  of  the  state  in 
which  it  is  doing  business.  If  a  state  govern- 
ment discriminates  in  its  regulations  regarding 
interest  in  favor  of  individuals  as  against  state 
and  savings  banks,  a  national  bank  may  be 
classed  as  an  individual  and  charge  accordingly. 
When  there  is  \io  regulation  by  the  state  govern- 
ment, a  bank  is  permitted  to  charge  a  maximum 
rate  of  7  per  cent.  Any  evasion  of  the  interest 
laws  may  result  in  a  forfeiture  of  the  entire  inter- 
est on  the  note  or  obligation.  If  usurious  rate 
has  been  paid,  double  the  amount  paid  may  be 
recovered. 

No  national  bank  is  permitted  to  declare  a 
dividend  until  it  has  placed  one-tenth  of  its  net 
profits  for  the  preceding  six  months  to  surplus 
account.  This  rule  does  not  hold  good  when  the 
surplus  amounts  to  20  per  cent  of  the  paid-in 
capital  of  the  bank. 

143 


Refitrictions 


No  national  bank  is  permitted  to  hold  any  of 
its  own  shares,  except  when  it  takes  such  shares 
as  security  for  a  bad  debt.  In  such  case  the 
bank  must  dispose  of  the  shares  within  six 
months. 

No  national  bank  is  allowed  to  loan  any  one 
person  or  corporation  more  than  one-tenth  of  its 
actually-paid-in  and  unimpaired  capital  and 
surplus  combined,  the  aggregate  not  to  exceed 
30  per  cent  of  the  capital.  The  discount  of  bills 
of  exchange  drawn  against  actually  existing  val- 
ues, and  the  discount  of  commercial  or  business 
paper  actually  owned  by  the  person  negotiating 
such  paper,  shall  not  be  considered  as  money 
borrowed. 

No  national  bank  may  draw  money  from  its 
capital  account  to  pay  out  in  the  form  of  divi- 
dends. 

No  national  bank  shall  pay  a  dividend  when 
its  losses  and  bad  debts  equal  or  exceed  its 
undivided  profits. 

No  debt  due  a  national  bank  on  which  interest 
is  past  due  and  unpaid  for  a  period  of  six  months, 
unless  well  secured  and  in  process  of  collection, 
shall  be  considered  a  good  debt. 


144 


T^ 


New  York  Correspondent 

HE  National  City  Bank  of  New  York 
_  cannot  too  strongly  urge  upon  the  nat- 
-■^  ional  banks  of  the  country  the  im- 
portance of  exercising  the  greatest  care  in  the 
selection  of  their  reserve  correspondents.  This 
selection  should  have  attention  before  the  or- 
ganization of  the  bank  is  completed. 

The  large  institutions  in  the  Reserve  Cities 
are  accustomed  to  handling  all  the  details  of 
organization,  and  are  often  in  a  position  to  be 
of  much  service  in  that  connection.  They  may 
also  be  called  upon  to  secure  for  the  new  bank,  at 
the  most  favorable  rates  possible,  the  necessary 
charter  bonds,  which  must  be  deposited  with  the 
Treasurer  of  the  United  States  as  a  preliminary 
to  the  beginning  of  actual  business. 

After  the  organization  has  been  completed, 
the  new  bank  will  have  almost  daily  occasion, 
both  on  its  own  account  and  on  that  of  its  cus- 
tomers, to  draw  metropolitan  drafts;    and  will, 

145 


Value  of  Correspondent 


in  the  regular  course  of  its  business,  find  it 
necessary  to  handle  through  its  correspondent 
the  collection  of  bank  items  received  from  its 
depositors.  In  addition  to  these  daily  needs, 
the  new  bank  will  find  it  desirable  to  establish 
relations  where,  in  case  of  necessity,  it  can 
receive  an  extension  of  credit. 

In  fact,  the  connection  with  the  correspondent 
will  become  of  greater  and  greater  importance 
as  the  business  of  the  bank  expands,  and  in  the 
selection  most  careful  consideration  should  be 
given  to  all  the  various  relationships  which  will 
be  developed.  The  question  of  first  importance 
in  the  selection  of  a  city  correspondent  is  security, 
for  no  matter  how  well  managed  the  affairs  of  the 
local  bank  may  be,  it  could  not  escape  serious 
inconvenience  should  the  city  institution  become 
embarrassed  from  any  cause. 

There  is  another  side  to  the  question  of  secur- 
ity. The  fact  that  the  country  bank  is  associated 
with  a  strong  city  institution  will  often  be  a  deter- 
mining factor  in  the  confidence  with  which  it  is 
regarded.  The  city  bank  is  bound  to  feel  itself 
in  a  way  responsible  for  the  welfare  of  its  cor- 
respondent and  is,  therefore,  careful  to  accept 
the  responsibility  only  after  satisfying  itself  that 

146 


Factors  in   Selection 


it  may  safely  set  the  seal  of  approval  upon  the 
smaller  bank. 

In  making  its  choice  of  a  city  correspondent, 
the  new  bank  will  be  more  nearly  assured  of 
securing  the  foregoing  advantages  if  it  entrusts 
its  funds  to  an  institution  having  a  large  capital 
and  surplus.  Those  two  items  make  for  safety, 
and  certainly  the  safety  of  the  reserve  balance 
should  be  the  principal  guiding  factor  in  the 
selection  of  a  depositary. 

Aside  from  the  safety  of  its  balance,  the 
standing  given  to  it  and  the  probability  that  its 
loan  requirements  will  be  cheerfully  met  in 
time  of  need,  an  important  consideration  in  the 
country  bank's  association  with  an  institution  of 
magnitude  is  the  amount  of  reciprocal  business 
in  the  way  of  collections  which  can  be  sent  by 
the  large  city  institution  through  which  many 
thousands  of  checks  are  cleared  daily. 

The  bank  receiving  collection  items  from  its 
city  correspondent  has  oftentimes  the  advantage 
of  receiving  checks  on  its  neighboring  banks. 
The  amount  represented  by  these  checks  on 
neighboring  banks  is  of  value  in  offsetting  the 
amount  presented  at  the  bank's  counter  for 
payment,  or  is  of  use  in  offsetting  checks  which 

147 


Reciprocal  Relations 


may  be  presented  through  the  local  clearing 
house.  It  will  be  seen  that  the  bank  receiving 
from  its  city  correspondent  the  largest  amount 
of  checks  on  other  local  banks  is  practically 
protected  against  the  unexpected  withdrawal  of 
large  sums  through  channels  other  than  its  own, 
as,  should  such  withdrawals  be  made,  the  amount 
of  local  checks  sent  to  it  by  its  city  correspondent 
may  be  used  to  offset  them. 

The  out-of-New-York  checks  of  The  National 
City  Bank  are  supplemented  by  those  of  several 
other  banks  in  the  heart  of  the  retail  and  hotel 
district  of  the  city  and  in  consequence  its  out-of- 
town  collections  are  probably  larger  than  those  of 
any  other  New  York  bank.  The  collections  of 
The  National  City  Bank  are  always  handled 
through  associate  institutions. 

Any  bank  associated  with  a  liberal  city 
institution  may  look  forward  confidently  to 
receiving  the  fairest  possible  treatment  in  the 
handling  of  its  collections.  The  associated  banks 
of  New  York  are  subject  to  certain  rules  and 
regulations  which  have  been  put  in  force  by  the 
clearing  house.  Those  regulations  provide  that 
the  New  York  associated  banks  may  use  their 
discretion  with  regard  to  charges  for  the  collec- 

148 


Collection  Districts 


tion  of  items  on  certain  Eastern  cities,  namely, 
Albany,  Baltimore,  Bayonne,  Boston,  Brooklyn, 
Hoboken,  Jersey  City,  Newark,  Philadelphia, 
Providence  and  Troy.  The  National  City  Bank, 
in  line  with  its  policy  to  extend  the  most  liberal 
treatment  possible  to  its  correspondents,  handles 
items  on  these  so-called  discretionary  points 
without  charge. 

The  remainder  of  the  United  States  is  divided 
into  two  sections  on  which  exchange  charges  of 
one-tenth  and  one-fourth  of  one  per  cent  respec- 
tively are  made.  For  the  collection  of  items  on 
points  east  of  the  Mississippi  River  and  north  of 
Tennessee,  a  charge  of  one-tenth  of  one  per 
cent  is  made.  For  the  collection  of  items  on 
all  other  points  (with  the  exception  of  Missouri, 
which  is  in  the  one-tenth  class)  a  charge  of  one- 
fourth  of  one  per  cent  is  made.  Items  payable 
in  Canada  and  the  Provinces  are  also  subject 
to  a  charge  of  one-fourth  of  one  per  cent. 

The  New  York  bank  derives  no  monetary 
profit  from  transactions  arising  from  the  direct 
presentation  of  its  collection  items.  When, 
however,  the  New  York  bank  can  send  checks, 
drafts  and  notes  directly  to  the  points  on  which 
they    are    drawn    and    have    them    presented 

149 


The  National  City   Bank 


promptly  for  payment,  there  will  be  consider- 
able advantage  derived,  not  only  from  the  saving 
of  time  which  will  result,  but  also  from  the  early 
verification  of  the  genuineness  of  the  items  in 
question. 

The  National  City  Bank  is  glad  to  extend  an 
offer  of  its  services  to  institutions  which  may 
contemplate  selecting  or  adding  to  the  number 
of  their  correspondents  in  New  York  City. 
Organized  as  the  City  Bank  in  1812  with  a 
capital  of  $500,000,  this  institution  was,  in  1865, 
converted  into  a  national  association  under  its 
present  title.  Its  expansion  has  been  typical  of 
the  growth  of  the  nation,  until  its  business  has 
become  international  in  its  ramifications.  In 
order  to  serve  its  customers  the  more  efficiently, 
it  has  increased  its  capitalization  from  time  to 
time.  The  capital  of  The  National  City  Bank 
now  stands  at  $25,000,000,  and  on  June  30,  1910, 
the  date  of  its  latest  statement,  its  combined 
capital,  surplus  and  undivided  profits  were 
$30,741,636.36  and  its  deposits  $243,808,089.16. 
Total  resources,  $308,889,343.64. 

Since  December  21,  1908,  The  National  City 
Bank  has  occupied  the  block  facing  on  Wall, 
William,  Hanover  Streets  and  Exchange  Place. 

150 


The  capital  of  The  National  City  Bank  now 
stands  at  $25,000,000,  and  on  June  30,  1910, 
the  date  of  its  latest  statement,  its  combined  sur- 
plus and  undivided  profits  were  $30,741,636.36, 
deposits,  $243,808,089.16,  and  total  resources, 
$308,589,343.64. 


Services  Rendered   by   Bank 


In  the  new  building  the  bank  has  arranged  ample 
facilities  for  handling  the  detailed  requirements  of 
its  customers,  among  whom  it  numbers  govern- 
ments, banks,  railroads,  domestic  and  foreign  cor- 
porations of  international  importance,  wholesale 
importing  and  exporting  firms,  manufacturing, 
jobbing  and  retail  houses,  whose  interests  embrace 
every   important   branch    of   business  activity. 

The  position  of  the  bank  throughout  its 
history  during  periods  of  financial  stress  has 
been,  from  many  standpoints,  unique.  In  times 
of  unsettled  business  conditions  it  has  always 
been  able  to  meet  the  legitimate  demands  of  its 
correspondents  and  customers.  During  the 
highly  disturbed  conditions  which  obtained  in 
November  and  December,  1907,  The  National 
City  Bank  rendered  exceptionally  valuable  ser- 
vice to  associate  institutions.  Its  shipments  of 
currency  to  correspondents  and  payments  in 
cash  over  its  counters  to  its  customers  during 
those  two  months  exceeded  $50,000,000.  Its 
extensions  of  credit  to  associate  banks  through- 
out the  country  were  at  one  time  in  this  period 
nearly  twice  as  great  in  amount  as  at  any  previous 
time  in  its  history. 

Its  ability  to  treat  its  friends  with  the  utmost 

161 


Bond  Department 


liberality  at  all  times  is  due,  in  the  main,  to  its 
unvarying  policy  of  maintaining  a  strong  reserve 
position.  An  important  contributory  factor  is 
the  advantage  accruing  from  the  highly  diverse 
character  of  the  interests  of  its  customers.  The 
distribution  of  the  demands  of  its  customers  over 
different  seasons  gives  its  business  an  equilibrium 
which  can  always  be  maintained. 

The  National  City  Bank  is  in  a  position  to 
handle  all  the  details  in  connection  with  the 
organization  of  new  banks.  It  will,  if  desired, 
instruct  its  Washington  representative  by  wire 
to  present  in  person  to  the  Comptroller's  office 
a  request  for  approval  to  organize.  This  action 
will  tend  to  expedite  considerably  the  forwarding 
of  the  necessary  papers  and  the  prompt  action 
of  the  Comptroller's  office  upon  the  bank's 
application. 

The  National  City  Bank  has  a  completely 
equipped  bond  department,  to  which  may  be 
entrusted  the  purchase  of  the  charter  bonds  of 
the  new  bank.  These  bonds  will  be  procured 
for  new  organizations  without  commission  at 
the  most  favorable  rates  permitted  by  the  current 
market  and,  without  charge,  will  be  deposited 
in  Washington  with  the  proper  official.     Should 

152 


Financial   Library 


a  bank  at  any  time  desire  to  substitute  one 
issue  of  bonds  for  another,  or  to  withdraw  any 
portion  of  the  bonds  on  deposit  in  excess  of  the 
amount  of  charter  bonds,  The  National  City 
Bank  will  attend  to  such  substitution  or  with- 
drawal gratis. 

The  transaction  of  such  business  is  greatly 
facilitated  by  the  fact  that  The  National  City 
Bank  has  its  own  telegraph  instruments  and 
operators,  thus  insuring  the  utmost  dispatch  in 
executing  the  telegraphic  requests  of  its  cor- 
respondents. 

The  facilities  of  The  National  City  Bank's 
financial  library  and  files  of  information  regard- 
ing investment  securities  are  offered  to  investors. 
It  has  at  its  command  one  of  the  most  extensive 
collections  of  corporate  documents  in  existence. 
Its  financial  library  contains  prospectuses,  annual 
reports,  copies  of  mortgages,  reorganization 
agreements,  and  all  available  published  informa- 
tion regarding  American  corporation  securities. 
Abstracts  from  these  files  of  information,  made 
by  experts,  will  be  freely  furnished  to  banks 
and  clients  on  request. 

Calculations  showing  the  relative  profits  on 
the  various  issues  of  government  bonds  as  secur- 

153 


Washingt on  Representative 


ity  for  circulation  or  public  funds,  as  made  by 
the  Actuary  of  the  United  States  Treasury 
Department,  will  be  furnished  to  banks  desiring 
them.  The  bond  department  also  keeps  itself 
fully  informed  regarding  the  attitude  of  the 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury  toward  the  creation 
of  government  depositaries  and  regarding  the 
regulations  of  the  Treasury  Department  con- 
cerning these  government  agents.  Information 
of  this  character  of  interest  to  national  banks  is 
embodied  in  a  monthly  circular  published  by  the 
bank.     This  circular  will  be  sent  upon  request. 

The  National  City  Bank  of  New  York  main- 
tains at  Washington  a  Bureau  especially  devoted 
to  the  interests  of  the  national  banks  of  the 
country. 

Every  national  bank  in  the  United  States  has 
need  for  an  agent  at  the  Capital.  The  law 
provides  that  periodically  this  agent  must  exam- 
ine the  bonds  on  deposit  with  the  Treasurer  of 
the  United  States  in  order  that  comparison  may 
be  made  with  the  books  of  the  Treasurer  and 
also  with  the  books  of  the  bank.  A  representa- 
tive of  the  bank  must  also  be  present  on  every 
occasion  when  worn  out  and  mutilated  circula- 
tion is  destroyed. 

154 


Curve ncy    Sh ip7n ents 


Other  services  which  may  be  performed  by 
an  agent  at  the  National  Capital  are  telegraphic 
notification  of  the  calls  of  the  Comptroller  of 
the  Currency  for  reports  of  condition,  taking 
charge  of  matters  connected  with  the  organiza- 
tion of  banks,  the  proper  presentation  of  appli- 
cations concerning  circulation  and  government 
deposits,  and,  where  desired,  the  forwarding  of 
new  national  bank  note  circulation  by  registered 
mail  insured. 

The  National  City  Bank  of  New  York  is 
closely  associated  with  the  Riggs  National  Bank 
of  Washington.  One  of  the  Vice-Presidents  of 
the  Riggs  National  Bank  is  Mr.  M.  E.  xViles, 
former  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Treasury.  Mr. 
Ailes  is  thoroughly  familiar  with  the  requirements 
of  the  Treasury  Department  in  its  relations  with 
national  banks.  Therefore,  he  is  peculiarly 
fitted  to  have  charge  of  the  Bureau  maintained 
at  Washington  by  The  National  City  Bank,  and 
his  prompt  attention  to  matters  entrusted  to 
him  may  be  relied  upon. 

The  National  City  Bank  of  New  York  is 
pleased  to  extend,  without  charge  to  its  corres- 
pondents, the  facilities  of  this  Bureau  at  Wash- 
ington. 

155 


Foreign   Department 


So  far  no  mention  has  been  made  of  the  close 
relations  which  The  National  City  Bank  enter- 
tains with  banking  institutions  of  prominence 
abroad.  It  counts  as  its  correspondents  in 
London,  Berlin,  Paris,  and  the  littoral  of  Europe 
the  most  prominent  institutions  and  is  thus 
enabled  to  secure  for  its  correspondents,  through 
its  intermediaries,  exceedingly  prompt  service  in 
all  transactions  entrusted  to  its  care. 

The  National  City  Bank  has  a  well-equipped 
Foreign  Exchange  Department,  whose  trans- 
actions run  into  the  millions  daily.  The  scope 
of  its  operations  varies  from  the  small  remittance 
to  the  financing  of  important  bond  issues.  In 
fact,  while  the  machinery  of  its  organization  is 
very  intricate,  it  is  nevertheless  one  that  works 
with  remarkable  efficiency  and  promptness. 

Arrangements  have  been  completed  by  which 
correspondents  are  permitted  to  draw  their 
drafts  direct  on  all  the  foreign  banks  with  which 
The  National  City  Bank  has  business  relations. 
The  drafts  used  are  furnished  to  correspondents 
without  charge,  but  do  not  bear  the  imprint  of 
The  National  City  Bank.  The  bank  issuing  the 
draft  appears  as  the  principal  and  has  all  the 
prestige  of  direct  relations  with  practically  every 

156 


Letters  of  Credit 


banking  point  in  the  world.  It  is  the  intention 
of  the  bank  to  quote  its  correspondents  such 
rates  as  will  enable  them  to  control  this  business 
in  their  respective  comnnmities. 

Local  merchants  may  be  desirous  of  import- 
ing direct,  thus  saving  the  middleman's  profits, 
or,  on  the  other  hand,  clients  may  have  goods  to 
dispose  of  abroad,  but  do  not  care  to  await 
remittance  from  the  other  side,  or  the  terms  of 
the  sale  are  such  that  two  or  three  months  would 
elapse  before  they  were  placed  in  funds.  It  is 
one  of  the  functions  of  The  National  City  Bank 
to  purchase  approved  bills  of  exchange  with 
shipping  documents  attached,  to  provide  com- 
mercial letters  of  credit  for  the  purchase  of  goods 
abroad,  also  to  furnish  the  travelling  public 
with  Circular  Notes  and  with  Circular  Letters  of 
Credit.  In  fact,  the  equipment  is  such  that  every 
transaction  of  a  banking  nature,  no  matter 
where  located,  can  be  attended  to  with  the  mini- 
mum of  cost  and  without  loss  of  time. 

The  services  of  this  department  are  always  at 
the  disposal  of  the  bank's  friends  and  a  cordial 
invitation  is  extended  to  them  to  make  use  of 
those  services  wherever  and  whenever  oppor- 
tunity offers. 

157 


Loans  and  Discounts 


The  National  City  Bank  has  a  most  complete 
credit  department,  which  is  always  at  the  dis- 
posal of  its  correspondents.  This  is  of  great 
value  to  an  institution  situated  in  the  interior, 
as  it  is  always  able  accurately  and  speedily  to 
learn  the  standing  of  individuals  and  corpora- 
tions. 

In  the  extension  of  credit,  either  through 
loans  or  discounts,  it  is  the  aim  of  The  National 
City  Bank  to  afford  its  correspondents  the  most 
liberal  treatment,  both  as  to  amount  and 
rate.  The  bank  is  bound  by  no  hard  and  fast 
rules  regarding  discount  and  loan  rates,  but 
aims  always  to  give  correspondents  the  lowest 
quotations  permitted  by  the  current  money 
market. 

The  various  departments  of  The  National 
City  Bank  are  carefully  systematized,  and  it  is 
thus  placed  in  a  position  to  handle  promptly  all 
the  New  York  business  entrusted  to  it.  Its 
Board  of  Directors  is  of  a  most  representative 
character,  enabling  it  to  be  of  service  to  corre- 
spondents in  almost  any  line  in  which  their 
financial  interests  may  extend. 

Correspondents  are  invited  to  furnish  letters 
of  introduction   to   their   customers   when   they 

158 


General  Facilities 


visit  New  York  on  business.  Such  letters  wall 
secure  for  the  bearers  all  the  courtesies  which 
The  National  City  Bank  is  in  a  position  to  extend. 
To  give  this  invitation  specific  force,  cards  of 
introduction  will,  upon  request,  be  sent  to 
associate  banks. 

In  a  word.  The  National  City  Bank  aims  to 
offer  its  correspondents  facilities  which  they  will 
not  find  duplicated  by  any  other  institution,  and 
it  welcomes  correspondence  looking  to  the  estab- 
lishment of  reciprocal  relations.  The  bank 
endeavors  to  add  constantly  to  its  already 
extensive  facilities  and  it  particularly  desires  to 
have  its  correspondents  feel  free  to  consult  it 
on  any  point  regarding  the  management  of  their 
institutions,  the  standing  of  those  with  whom 
they  may  have  dealings,  and  other  matters 
concerning  which  there  may  be  some  question. 

It  is  the  aim  of  The  National  City  Bank  to 
make  itself  broadly  useful  to  institutions  through- 
out the  country,  and  it  is  hoped  that  those 
institutions  will  make  use  of  its  facilities  to  the 
fullest  possible  extent. 


159 


OFFICIAL  FORMS  AND  DOCUMENTS   USED 
IN   CONNECTION  WITH  THE  ORGANIZATION  ANT>  CON- 
DUCT OF   NATIONAL  BANKS  AND  THE  TRANSFER 
OF   GOVERNMENT    SECURITIES,    PRESENTED 
IN  THE  ORDER    IN  ^TIICH    THEY    ARE 
FIRST  MENTIONED  IN  THE  TEXT. 


Order   of  Insertion 

Organization.  form  page 

Application I 167 

Articles  of  Association    ...   II  ...       168-170 

Organization  Certificate       .      .   Ill 171 

Form  of  Stock  Certificate    .      .IV 173 

Joint  Oath  of  Directors        .      .V 173 

Oath  of  Director       ....   VI 174 

By-Laws VII 175 

Signatures  of  Officers      .            .   VIII 182 

Certificate  of  Original  Payment 

of  Capital IX 183 

Certificate  of  Subsequent  Pay- 
ments of  Capital    ....   X 185 

Temporary  Certificate    ...  XI 186 

Charter XII 187 

Oath  of  Publication  .      .      .      .   XIII 188 

Stockholders'  Proxy  ....   XIV 189 

Conversion  of  State  Banks. 

Authority  for  Conversion           .   XV 190 

Application  to  Comptroller  .      .   X\T[ 191 

Articles  of  Association    .      .      .   XVII 192 

Organization  Certificate       .      .   XVIII        ....  193 
Certificate  of  Payment  of  Capi- 
tal Stock XIX     ....  195 

163 


Order  of  Insertion 


Circulation.  form  page 

Original  Order  for  Plates  and 

Circulation XX 196 

Supplementary  Order    for   Cir- 
culation       XXI 197 

Authority  to  Withdraw  Bonds 

"A" XXII 198 

Authority  to  Withdraw  Bonds 

"D" XXIII        ....    199 

Power  of  Attorney     ....   XXIV 200 

Semi-annual  Return  of  Circu- 
lation      XXV 201 

Report  of  Bonds  on  Deposit 

with  Treasurer       ....  XXVI 202 

Bank  Reserves. 

Forms  for  Calculating  Reserve  .  XXVII-XXVIII,  203-204 

Government  Dbposits. 

Certificate  of  Deposit      .      .      .   XXIX 205 

Transcript  of  Account    .      .      .   XXX    .      .      .        206-208 

Weekly  List  of  Balances      .      .  XXXI 209 

Monthly  List  of  Deposits     .      .   XXXII  .      .      .210 
Daily  List  of  Deposits    .      .      .  XXXIII    .      .      .      .211 
Dates    for    Rendering    Tran- 
scripts     XXXIV     ....  212 

Resolution  for  Withdrawal  of 

Bonds XXXV-XXXVI,   213-2U 

Return  of  Annual  Net  Income   -   XXXVII   .      .       215-217 

164 


Order  of  Insertion 


Notice  OF  Shareholders' Meeting,     form  page 

Form  of  Notice         ....  XXXVIII       .      .      .218 

Amendment  of  Articles  of  As- 
sociation       XXIX 219 

Power  of  Attorney,  Individual   .   XL 222 

Power  of  Attorney,  Corporate   .   XLI 223 

Certificate   of   Amendment   of 

Articles XLII 224 

Extension  of  Charter      .      .      .   XLIII        ....   225 

Order  for  Plates  and  Circula- 
tion   XLIV 226 

Re-extension  of  Corporate  Ex- 
istence. 

Re-extension  of  Charter      .      .  XLV 227 

Ex-piration  of  Corporate  Exist- 


XLVI 228 


Changes  in  Capital  Stock. 

Resolution  to  Increase  Capital   XLVII      ....     229 

Certificate  of  Increase  of  Capi- 
tal Stock XLVIII     .      .      .      .231 

Resolution  to  Reduce  Capital 

Stock XLIX 232 

Change  of  Name,  etc. 

Resolution  Authorizing  Change .   L 234 

Liquidation. 

Resolution  for  Voluntary  Liqui- 
dation     LI 236 

Notice Lll 237 

Oath  of  Publication  ....  LIII 238 

165 


I. 
DETAILED    STEPS  IN    ORGANIZATION 

APPLICATION  TO  ORGANIZE  A  NATIONAL  BANK 

,  19      . 


To  THE  Comptroller  of  the  Currency, 

Washington,  D.  C. 

Sir:  Notice  is  hereby  given  that  we,  the  undersigned,  being 
natural  persons,  and  of  lawful  age,  intend,  with  others,  to  or- 
ganize a  National  Banking  Association,  under  the  title  of  "The 

,"  to  be  located  at ,  County  of ,  State  of ,  with 

capital  of  $ ,to  succeed  the bank  of .  Population, — . 

We  request  that  the  title  be  reserved  for  a  period  of  sixty  days, 
and  organization  blanks  and  instructions  sent  to  at  . 


Signatures  of 
Applicants. 

Residences. 

Business. 

Financial 

Strength 

in  Figures. 

The  signers  of  this  application  arc  known  by  me  to  be  repu- 
table citizens;  the  information  in  reference  to  their  business  and 
financial  standing  is  in  my  opinion  correct,  the  statement  as  to 
population  authentic,  and  I  am  of  the  belief  that  tlie  conditions 

167 


Official  Forms 


locally  are  such  as  to  insure  success  if  the  bank  is  organized  and 
properly  managed. 

,  Judge  of  Court. 

,  Postmaster. 

,  Mayor. 


II. 

ARTICLES  OF  ASSOCIATION 

(Executed  in  Duplicate) 

For  the  purpose  of  organizing  an  association  to  carry  on  the 
business  of  banking,  under  the  laws  of  the  United  States,  the 
undersigned  subscribers  for  the  stock  of  the  Association  herein- 
after named  do  enter  into  the  following  Articles  of  Association: 

First.      The  title  of  this  Association  shall  be  "The ." 

Second.  The  place  where  its  banking  house  or  office  shall  be 
located,  and  its  operations  of  discount  and  deposit  carried  on, 
and  its  general  business  conducted,  shall  be . 

Third.  The  Board  of  Directors  shall  consist  of share- 
holders.    The  first  meeting  of  the  shareholders  for  the  election 

of  directors  shall  be  held  at on  the or  at  such  other 

place  and  time  as  a  majority  of  the  undersigned  shareholders 
may  direct. 

Fourth.  The  regular  annual  meetings  of  the  shareholders 
for  the  election  of  directors  shall  be  held  at  the  banking  house 
of  this  Association  on  the  second  Tuesday  of  January  of  each 
year;  but  if  no  election  shall  be  held  on  that  day,  it  may  be  held 
on  any  other  day,  according  to  the  provisions  of  Section  5149  of 
the  Revised  Statutes  of  the  United  States,  and  all  elections  shall 
be  held  according  to  such  regulations  as  may  be  prescribed  by 

168 


and  Documents 


the  Board  of  Directors,  not  inconsistent  with  the  provisions  of 
the  National  Banking  Law,  and  of  these  articles. 

Fifth.     The  capital  stock  of  this  Association  shall  be  

dollars,  divided  into  shares  of  one  hundred  dollars 


each;  but  the  capital  may,  with  the  approval  of  the  Comptroller 
of  the  Currency,  be  increased  at  any  time  by  shareholders  owning 
two-thirds  of  the  stock,  according  to  the  provisions  of  an  Act  of 
Congress  approved  May  1,  1886;  and  in  case  of  the  increase  of 
the  capital  of  the  Association,  each  shareholder  shall  have  the 
privilege  of  subscribing  for  such  number  of  shares  of  the  pro- 
posed increase  of  the  capital  stock  as  he  may  be  entitled  to  ac- 
cording to  the  number  of  shares  owned  by  him  before  the  stock 
is  increased. 

Sixth.  The  Board  of  Directors,  a  majority  of  whom  shall  be 
a  quorum  to  do  business,  shall  elect  one  of  its  members  President 
of  this  Association,  who  shall  hold  his  office  (unless  he  shall  be 
disqualified,  or  be  sooner  removed  by  a  two-thirds  vote  of  all  the 
members  of  the  Board)  for  the  term  for  which  he  was  elected  a 
director.  The  directors  shall  have  power  to  elect  a  Vice-Presi- 
dent, who  shall  also  be  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Directors,  and 
who  shall  be  authorized,  in  the  absence  or  inability  of  the  Presi- 
dent from  any  cause,  to  perform  all  acts  and  duties  pertaining  to 
the  office  of  President  except  such  as  the  President  only  is  au- 
thorized by  law  to  perform,  and  to  elect  or  appoint  a  Cashier, and 
such  other  officers  and  clerks  as  may  be  required  to  transact  the 
business  of  the  Association;  to  fix  the  salaries  to  be  paid  to  them, 
and  continue  them  in  office,  or  to  dismiss  them  as,  in  the  opinion 
of  a  majority  of  the  Board,  the  interests  of  the  Association  may 
demand. 

The  directors  shall  have  power  to  define  the  duties  of  the 

169 


Official  Forms 


officers  and  clerks  of  the  Association,  to  require  bonds  from  them, 
and  to  fix  the  penalty  thereof;  to  regulate  the  manner  in  which 
elections  of  directors  shall  be  held,  and  to  appoint  judges  of  the 
elections;  to  make  all  by-laws  that  it  may  Ije  proper  for  them  to 
make  not  inconsistent  with  law,  for  the  general  regulation  of  the 
business  of  the  Association  and  the  management  of  its  affairs, 
and  generally  to  do  and  perform  all  acts  that  it  may  be  legal 
for  a  Board  of  Directors  to  do  and  perform  under  the  Revised 
Statutes  aforesaid. 

Seventh.  This  Association  shall  continue  for  the  period  of 
twenty  years  from  the  date  of  the  execution  of  its  Organization 
Certificate,  unless  sooner  placed  in  voluntary  liquidation  by  the 
act  of  its  shareholders,  owning  at  least  two-thirds  of  its  stock 
or  otherwise  dissolved  by  authority  of  law. 

Eighth.  These  Articles  of  Association  may  be  changed  or 
amended  at  any  time  by  shareholders  owning  a  majority  of  the 
stock  of  the  Association,  in  any  manner  not  inconsistent  with 
law;  and  the  Board  of  Directors,  or  any  three  shareholders,  may 
call  a  meeting  of  the  shareholders  for  this  or  any  other  purpose, 
not  inconsistent  with  law,  by  publishing  notice  thereof  for  thirty 
days  in  a  newspaper  published  in  the  town,  city,  or  county  where 
the  bank  is  located,  or  by  mailing  to  each  shareholder  notice  in 
writing,  thirty  days  before  the  time  fixed  for  the  meeting. 

In  Witness  Whereof  we  have   hereunto  set   our   hands 

this day  of , . 

(To  be  signed  by  at  least  five  natural  persons,  preferably  the  appli- 
cants.) 


170 


and  Documents 


III. 


ORGANIZATION  CERTIFICATE 

(Executed  in  Duplicate) 

We  the  undersigned,  whose  names  are  specified  in  article 
fourth  of  this  Certificate,  having  associated  ourselves  for  the  pur- 
pose of  organizing  an  association  for  carrying  on  the  business  of 
banking,  under  the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  make  and  exe- 
cute the  following  Organization  Certificate: 

First.    The  title  of  the  Association  shall  be  "The ." 

Second.    The  said  Association  shall  be  located  in  the of 

,  County  of ,  and  State  of ,  where  its  operations  of 

discount  and  deposit  are  to  be  carried  on. 

Third.     The  capital  stock  of  this  Association  shall  be  

dollars  ($ ),  and  shall   be  divided   into shares  of  one 

hundred  dollars  each. 

Fourth.    The  name  and  the  residence  of  each  shareholder  of 
this  Association,  with  the  number  of  shares  held,  are  as  follows: 


Name. 

Residence. 

No.  of  Shares. 

1 

2 

3 

(The  names,  etc.,  of  all  the  shareholders  must  appea/  in  tliis  section.) 
171 


Official  Forms 


Fifth.  This  Certificate  is  made  in  order  that  we  may  avail 
ourselves  of  the  advantages  of  the  aforesaid  laws  of  the  United 
States. 

In  Witness  Whereof,  we  have  hereunto  set  our  hands,  this 
dav  of , . 


(To  be  signed  and  acknowledged  by  those  who  have  signed  the 
articles  of  association.) 


(Acknowledgment  must  be  made  before  judge  of  court  or  notarj' 
public.) 

State  of  _ ) 


County  of . 


Before  the  undersigned,  a of  ,  personally  appeared 


to  me  well  known,  who  severally  acknowledged  that  they  exe- 
cuted the  foregoing  certificate  for  the  purposes  therein  men- 
tioned. 

Witness  my  hand  and  seal  of  Office  this 
day  of , . 

':     Official' Seal"  : 

:      of  Officer.      :  


172 


and  Documents 


IV. 
FORM  OF  STOCK  CERTIFICATE 


-National  Bank 


No Shares. 

Be  It   Known  that  entitled   to Shares  of  One 

Hundred  Dollars  each,  in  the  Capital  Stock  of  the Bank  of 

transferable  only  on  the  books  of  the  Bank  by  the  said 

or  Attorney  on  surrender  of  this  Certificate. 

New  York.  19— 

:          Seal. 
Cashier.  • "•  President. 


V. 
OATH  OF  DIRECTORS 

State  of 

County  of 


We,  the  undersigned  directors  of  The located  at , 

being  citizens   of   the   United   States,   and   all  residents  of  the 

State  of ,  do,  each  for  himself,  and  not  one  for  the  other, 

solemnly  swear  (afi&rm)  that  we  will  severally,  so  far  as  the  duty 
devolves  on  us,  diligently  and  honestly  administer  the  affairs  of 
said  Association;  and  that  we  will  not  knowingly  violate,  or 
willingly  permit  to  be  violated,  any  of  the  provisions  of  the 
Statutes  of  the  United  States  under  which  said  Association  has 
been  organized;  and,  each  for  himself,  does  solemnly  swear 
(affirm)  that  he  is  the  owner  in  good  faith,  and  in  his  own  right, 
of  the  number  of  shares  of  stock  required  by  said  Statutes,  sub- 
scribed by  him  or  standing  in  his  name  on  the  books  of  the  said 

173 


Official  Forjns 


Association;   and  that  the  same  is  not  hypothecated,  or  in  any 
way  pledged  as  security  for  any  loan  or  debt. 

Signature 

Signature 

Subscribed  and  sworn  (affirmed)  to  before  the    undersigned 
this  day  of  19 — . 


OflBcial  Seal 
of  OflBcer. 


Notary  Public. 


VI. 
OATH  OF  DIRECTOR 


State  of- 


County  of ) 

I,   the   undersigned,    Director  of  The located  at , 

being  a  citizen  of  the  United  States,  and  resident  of  the  State  of 

,  do  solemnly  swear  (affirm)  that  I  will,  so  far  as  the  duty 

devolves  on  me,  diligently  and  honestly  administer  the  affairs 
of  said  Association;  that  I  will  not  knowingly  violate,  or  willingly 
permit  to  be  violated,  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Statutes  of 
the  United  States  under  which  this  Association  has  been  organ- 
ized; and  that  I  am  the  owner,  in  good  faith  and  in  my  own 
right,  of  the  number  of  shares  of  stock  required  by  said  Statutes, 

171 


and  Documents 


subscribed  by  me  or  standing  in  my  name  on  the  books  of  the 
said  Association;  and  that  the  same  is  not  hj-pothecated,  or  in 
any  way  pledged  as  security  for  any  loan  or  debt. 


Subscribed  and  Sworn  (affirmed)  to  before  the  undersigned, 
this  day  of  ,  19 — . 


Official  Seal 
of  Officer. 


Notary  Public. 


VII. 

GENERAL  FORM  OF  BY-LAWS  OF  NATIONAL 
BANKS 

BY-LAWS  OF  THE    (HERE    INSERT  THE  TITLE  OF  THE 

BANK),    ORGANIZED     UNDER     THE     NATIONAL 

BANKING-LAWS  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES 

ELECTIONS 

Section  1.  The  regular  annual  meetings  of  the  sharehold- 
ers of  this  bank  for  the  election  of  directors  shall  be  held  at  its 
banking  house  on  the  second  Tuesday  of  January  of  each  year, 
between  the  hours  of  10  and  4  of  said  day.  It  shall  be  the  duty 
of  the  board  of  directors,  within  one  month  prior  to  the  time  of 
said  election,  to  appoint  three  shareholders  to  be  judges  of  said 
election,  who  shall  hold  and  conduct  the  same,  and  who  shall, 
after  the  election  has  been  held,  notify  under  their  hands  the 
cashier  of  this  bank  of  the  result  thereof  and  the  names  of  the 
directors-elect. 

175 


Official  Forms 


Sec.  2.  The  cashier,  upon  receiving  the  returns  of  the 
judges  of  the  elections  as  aforesaid,  shall  cause  the  same  to  be 
recorded  upon  the  minute  book  of  the  bank,  and  shall  notify 
the  directors-elect  of  their  election,  and  of  the  time  at  which  they 
are  required  to  meet  at  the  banking  house  of  the  bank  for  the 
purpose  of  organizing  the  new  board.  If  at  the  time  fixed  for 
the  meeting  of  the  directors-elect  there  is  not  a  quorum  in  attend- 
ance, the  members  present  may  adjourn  from  time  to  time  until 
a  quorum  is  secured;  and  no  business  shall  be  transacted  prior 
to  taking  the  oath  of  office  as  prescribed  by  law. 

Sec.  3.  If,  for  any  cause,  the  annual  election  of  directors  is 
not  held  on  the  date  fixed  in  the  articles  of  association,  the 
directors  in  office  shall  order  an  election  to  be  held  on  some  other 
day,  of  which  special  election  notice  shall  be  given  in  accordance 
with  the  requirements  of  Section  5149,  United  States  Revised 
Statutes,  judges  appointed,  returns  made  and  recorded,  and  the 
directors-elect  notified,  according  to  the  provisions  of  Sections 
one  and  two  of  these  by-laws. 

OFFICERS 

Sec.  4.  The  officers  of  this  bank  shall  be  a  president,  vice- 
president  (who  shall  be  members  of  the  board  of  directors), 
cashier,  and  such  other  officers  as  may  be  from  time  to  time 
required  for  the  prompt  and  orderly  transaction  of  its  business, 
to  be  elected  or  appointed  by  the  board  of  directors,  by  whom 
their  several  duties  shall  be  prescribed. 

Sec.  5.  The  president  shall  hold  his  office  for  the  current 
year  for  which  the  board  of  which  he  shall  be  a  member  was 
elected,  unless  he  shall  resign,  become  disqualified,  or  be  removed; 
and  any  vacancy  occurring  in  the  office  of  president  or  in  the 
board  of  directors  shall  be  filled  bv  the  remaining  members. 


176 


and  Documents 


Sec.  6.  The  cashier  and  the  subordinate  officers  and  clerks 
shall  be  appointed  to  hold  their  offices,  respectively,  during  the 
pleasure  of  the  board  of  directors. 

Sec.  7.  The  cashier  of  this  bank  shall  be  responsible  for  all 
the  moneys,  funds,  and  valuables  of  the  bank,  and  shall  give  bond, 
with  security  to  be  approved  by  the  board,  in  the  penal  sum  of 

dollars,  conditioned  for  the  faithful  and  honest  discharge 

of  his  duties  as  such  cashier,  and  that  he  will  faithfully  apply  and 
account  for  all  such  moneys,  funds  and  valuables,  and  deliver 
the  same  to  the  order  of  the  board  of  directors  of  this  bank,  or 
to  the  person  or  persons  authorized  to  receive  them. 

Sec.  8.  The  president  of  this  bank  shall  be  responsible  for 
all  such  sums  of  money  and  property  of  every  kind  as  may  be 
intrusted  to  his  care  or  placed  in  his  hands  by  the  board  of 
directors  or  by  the  cashier,  or  otherwise  come  into  his  hands  as 
president,  and  shall  give  bond,  with  security  to  be  approved  by 

the  board,  in  the  penal  sum  of dollars,  conditioned  for  the 

faithful  discharge  of  his  duties  as  such  president,  and  that  he 
will  faithfully  and  honestly  apply  and  account  for  all  sums  of 
money  and  other  property  of  this  bank  that  may  come  into  his 
hands  as  such  president,  and  pay  over  and  deliver  the  same  to 
the  order  of  the  board  of  directors,  or  to  any  other  person  or 
persons  authorized  by  the  board  to  receive  the  same. 

Sec.  9.  The  teller  shall  be  responsible  for  all  such  sums  of 
money,  property,  and  funds  of  every  description  as  may,  from 
time  to  time,  be  placed  in  his  hands  by  the  cashier,  or  otherwise 
come  into  his  possession  as  teller;  and  shall  give  bond,  with 
security  to  be  approved  by  the  board,  in  the  penalty  of  - 
dollars,  conditioned  for  the  honest  and  faithful  discharge  of  his 
duties  as  teller,  and  that  he  will  faithfully  apply,  account  for,  and 

177 


Official  Forms 


pay  over  all  moneys,  property,  and  funds  of  every  description 
that  may  come  into  his  hands  by  virtue  of  his  office  as  teller,  to 
the  order  of  the  board  of  directors  aforesaid,  or  to  such  person 
or  persons  as  may  be  authorized  to  demand  and  receive  the  same. 


Sec.  10.    The  following  is  an  impression  of  the  seal  adopted 
by  the  board  of  directors  of  this  bank : 


Impression 
of  Seal. 


CONVEYANCE  OF  REAL  ESTATE 

Sec.  11.  All  transfers  and  conveyances  of  real  estate  shall  be 
made  by  the  association,  under  seal,  in  accordance  with  the 
orders  of  the  board  of  directors,  and  shall  be  signed  by  the 
president  or  cashier. 

INCREASE  OF  STOCK 

Sec.  12.  Whenever  an  increase  of  stock  shall  be  determined 
upon,  in  accordance  with  law,  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  board  to 
notify  all  the  shareholders  of  the  same,  and  to  cause  a  subscrip- 
tion to  be  opened  for  such  increase  of  capital.  In  the  increase  of 
capital  each  shareholder  shall  have  the  privilege  of  subscribing 
for  such  number  of  shares  of  the  new  stock  as  he  may  be  entitled 
to  subscribe  for,  according  to  his  existing  stock  in  the  bank.  If 
any  shareholder  fails  to  subscribe  for  the  amount  of  stock  to  which 
he  may  be  entitled,  the  board  of  directors  may  determine  what 
disposition  shall  be  made  of  the  privilege  of  subscribing  for  the 
unsubscribed  stock. 

178 


and  Documents 


BUSINESS  OF  THE  BANK 

Sec.  13.    This  bank  shall  be  opened  for  business  from 

o'clock  A.M.  to o'clock  P.M.  of  each  day  of  the  year,  excepting 

Sundays  and  days  recognized  by  the  laws  of  this  State  as  holi- 
days. When  any  regular  weekly  meeting  of  the  board  of  direc- 
tors falls  upon  a  holiday,  the  meeting  shall  be  held  upon  such 
other  day  as  the  board  may  previously  designate. 

Sec.  14.  The  regular  meetings  of  the  board  of  directors 
shall  be  held  on  the  (here  insert  time  of  meetings).  Special 
meetings  may  be  called  by  the  president,  cashier,  or  at  the  request 
of  three  or  more  directors,  and  should  there  be  no  quorum  at  any 
regular  or  special  meeting,  the  members  present  may  adjourn 
from  day  to  day  until  a  quorum  is  in  attendance.  In  the  absence 
of  a  quorum  no  business  shall  be  transacted. 

Sec.  15.  There  shall  be  a  committee,  to  be  known  as  the 
discount  committee,  consisting  of   the  president,    cashier,   and 

directors,  appointed  by  the  board  every months,  to  continue 

to  act  until  succeeded,  who  shall  have  power  to  discount  and  pur- 
chase bills,  notes,  and  other  evidences  of  debt,  and  to  buy  and 
sell  bills  of  exchange;  and  who  shall,  at  each  regular  meeting  of 
the  board  of  directors,  submit  for  approval  a  report  of  all  bills, 
notes  and  other  evidences  of  debt  discounted  and  purchased  by 
them  for  the  bank  since  their  last  report. 

MINUTE  BOOK 

Sec.  16.  The  organization  papers  of  this  bank,  the  returns 
of  the  judges  of  the  elections,  the  proceedings  of  all  regular  and 
special  meetings  of  the  directors  and  of  the  shareholders,  the  by- 
laws and  any  amendments  thereto,  and  reports  of  the  committees 
of  directors,  shall   be   recorded    in  the   minute   book;   and    the 

179 


Official  Forms 


minutes  of  each  meeting  shall  be  signed  by   the   president   and 
attested  by  the  cashier. 

TRANSFERS  OF  STOCK 

Sec.  17.  The  stock  of  this  bank  shall  be  assignable  and  trans- 
ferable only  on  the  books  of  this  bank,  subject  to  the  restrictions 
and  provisions  of  the  national  banking  laws;  and  a  transfer  book 
shall  be  provided  in  which  all  assignments  and  transfers  of  stock 
shall  be  made. 

Sec.  18.  Transfers  of  stock  shall  not  be  suspended  prepara- 
tory to  the  declaration  of  dividends;  and,  unless  an  agreement  to 
the  contrary  shall  be  expressed  in  the  assignments,  dividends 
shall  be  paid  to  the  shareholders  in  whose  name  the  stock  shall 
stand  at  the  date  of  the  declaration  of  dividends. 

Sec.  19.  Certificates  of  stock,  signed  by  the  president  and 
cashier,  may  be  issued  to  shareholders,  and  the  certificate  shall 
state  upon  the  face  thereof  that  the  stock  is  transferable  only  upon 
the  books  of  the  bank;  and  when  stock  is  transferred,  the  cer- 
tificates thereof  shall  be  returned  to  the  bank  cancelled,  pre- 
served, and  new  certificates  issued. 

EXPENSES 

Sec.  20.    All  the  current  expenses  of  the  bank  shall  be  paid 
by  the  cashier,  who  shall  every  six  months,  or  oftener,  if  required, 
make  to  the  board  a  detailed  statement  thereof. 
contracts 

Sec.  21.     All  contracts,  checks,  drafts,  etc.,  and  all  receipts 
for  circulating  notes  received  from  the  Comptroller  of  the  Cur- 
rency, shall  be  signed  by  the  president  or  cashier. 
examinations 

Sec.  22.  There  shall  be  appointed  by  the  board  of  directors 
a  committee  of members,  whose  duty  it  shall  be  to  exercise 


180 


and  Documents 


a  supervision  of  the  business  of  the  bank,  and  to  examine  every 
three  months  the  affairs  of  this  bank,  count  its  cash,  and  compare 
its  assets  and  Habihties  with  the  accounts  of  the  general  ledger, 
ascertain  whether  the  accounts  are  correctly  kept  and  the  condi- 
tion of  the  bank  corresponds  therewith,  and  whether  the  bank  is 
in  a  sound  and  solvent  condition,  and  to  recommend  to  the  board 
such  changes  in  the  manner  of  doing  business,  etc.,  as  shall  seem 
to  be  desirable,  the  result  of  which  examination  shall  be  reported 
in  writing  to  the  board  at  the  next  regular  meeting  thereafter. 

Sec.  23.  The  board  of  directors  shall  have  power  to  change 
the  form  of  the  books  and  accounts  when  deemed  expedient,  and 
define  the  manner  in  which  the  affairs  of  the  bank  shall  be  con- 
ducted. 

QUORUMS 

Sec.  24.  A  majority  of  all  the  directors  is  required  to  con- 
stitute a  quorum  to  do  business. 

Sec.  25.  These  by-laws  may  be  changed  or  amended  by  the 
vote  of  a  majority  of  the  directors. 


181 


Official  Forms 


VIII. 
OFFICIAL  SIGNATURES 


Official  signatures  of  Officers  of  the 
the  State  of . 


-,  located  at 


-,  in 


Original 
Signatures. 

Date  of  Election  or 
Appointment. 

Names  of 
Predecessors. 

j 

IMPORTANT 

The  following  instructions  should  be  observed  to  avoid  return  of  paper 
for  correction:  (1)  Insert  title  and  place  of  location  of  bank.  (2)  Give 
the  signatures  of  officers,  with  date  of  election  or  appointment.  (3)  In 
case  of  a  vacancy,  the  word  "None"  should  appear  in  the  space  for  the 
signature  of  the  officer.  (4)  Affix  seal  of  bank  in  the  space  designated. 
(5)  The  signatures  of  all  of  the  officers  with  date  of  election  or  appoint- 
ment of  each  and  name  of  predecessor,  in  case  of  a  change,  are  required 


182 


and  Documents 


IX. 

CERTIFICATE     OF     OFFICERS     AND     DIRECTORS 

RELATIVE  TO  PAYMENT  OF  CAPITAL  STOCK 

AND  COMPLIANCE  WITH  OTHER  LEGAL 

REQLTREMENTS 


The  undersigned,  officers  and  directors  of  ,  located  at 

— ,  organized  under  the  provisions  of  the  Revised  Statutes  of 


the  United  States,  authorizing  the  organization  of  national 
banking  associations,  do  hereby  certify  that  of  the  authorized 

capital  stock  of  $ there  has  been  paid  into  said  bank,  in 

cash,  as  permanent  capital,  $ ,  and  that  no  part  of  this  sum 

is  represented  by  promissory  notes  or  other  evidences  of  debt: 
also  that  the  name  and  place  of  residence  of  each  director,  and 
the  amount  of  stock  individually  owned  in  good  faith,  are  as 
follows : 


Name  or  Director,  a 

Place  of  Residence. 
(Town  or  City  and  State.) 

Number  of 

Shares  of 

Stock. 

- 

a  The  names,  etc.,  of  all  the  directors  of  the  association  must  appear 
on  this  page.  A  majority  of  the  directors  exclusive  of  the  president  or 
cashier,  must  sign  on  the  following  page  and  make  acknowledgment. 

It  is  further  certified  that  the  association  has  in  good  faith 
complied  with  all  of  the  provisions  that  are  required  to  be  com- 


183 


Official  Forms 


plied  with  before  receiving  authority  to  commence  the  business 
of  banking. 


^Directors. 


President,  or  Cashier. 
State  of 1 

(  ''' 
County  of _' 


Before  the  undersigned,  a of ,  personally  appeared 

the  above-named  directors  and  other  officers  of  the  aforesaid 
national  bank,  and  made  oath  that  the  foregoing  certificate  and 
the  matters  and  things  therein  set  forth  are  true,  to  the  best  of 
their  knowledge  and  belief. 

Witness  my  hand  and  seal  of  office  this day  of ,  19 — . 


Official  Seal 
of  Officer. 


184 


and  Documents 


X. 

CERTIFICATE  OF  PAYMENT  OF  CAPITAL  STOCK 

,19— 

To  THE  Comptroller  of  the  Currency, 

Washington,  D.  C. 

Sir:     It  is  hereby  certified  that  the installment,  amount- 
ing to dollars,  has  been   paid    in   cash   on   account   of   the 

capital  stock  of  The ,  located  at ,  the  certification    of 

payments  to  date  being  as  follows: 

First  installment  (at  organization), $ 

Second  installment         "       $ 

Third  installment  "       $ 

Fourth    installment         "       $ 

Fifth  installment  "       $ 

Sixth  installment  "       $ 

Total •■ $ 


Cashier. 


State  of- 


ss: 


County   of- 


Subscribed  and  sworn  to  this day  of ,  19 — . 


:  Official  Seal 
of  Officer. 


Notary  Public. 
185 


Official  Forms 


XI. 

TEMPORARY  CERTIFICATE 


No.- 


-shares. 


This  is  to  certify  that is  entitled  to shares  of  the 

capital  stock  of  the National  Bank  of ,  capital  $ , 

and  that  upon  payment  of  all  installments,  amounting  to  $ , 


and  surrender  of  this  temporary  certificate,  a  certificate  of  stock 
will  be  issued. 

Witness  the  seal  and  the  signatures  of   the  president  and 
cashier  of  the  bank. 

Dated      ,  19—.  The National  Bank  of . 

By 


Cashier. 


President. 


PAYMENTS  ON  ACCOUNT  OF  CAPITAL 


First  installment, 

Second 

Third 

Fourth 

Fifth 

Sixth 


■  per  centd.,  amounting  to  ^ 


paid 


19—. 
19—. 
19—. 
19—. 
19—. 
19—. 


this 
-  my 


ASSIGNMENT 

For  value  received  I  hereby  transfer  and  assign  to  - 
temporary  certificate  and  hereby  appoint  and  constitute 
true  and  la^'ful  attorney  to  transfer  said  certificate,  with  full 
power  of  substitution  in  the  premises. 

Dated  at ,  this day  of ,  19 — . 

Witness : ^__ 


186 


and  Documents 


xn. 

CHARTER 

No. 

TREASURY  DEPARTMENT 

Office  of  Comptroller  of  the  Currency, 

Washington, 19 — . 

Wherkis,  by  satisfactory  evidence  presented  to  the  under- 
signed, it  has  been  made  to  appear  that  The ,  located  in  the 

of ,    in   the   County   of  and    State   of  has 

complied  with  all  the  provisions  of  the  statutes  of  the  United 
States,  required  to  be  complied  with  before  an  association 
shall  be  authorized  to  commence  the  business  of  banking: 

Now  therefore  I,  Comptroller  of  the  Currency,  do 

hereby  certify  that  The ,  located  in  the of in  the 

County  of  and  State  of is   authorized   to   commence 

the  business  of  banking  as  provided  in  Section  fifty-one  hundred 
and  sixty-nine  of  the  Revised  Statutes  of  the  United  States. 

In  testimony  whereof  witness  my  hand  and  Seal  of  office 
this day  of ,  19 — . 


Seal. 


Comptroller  of  the  Currency. 


187 


Official  Forms 


State  of_ 


XIII. 
OATH  OF  PUBLICATION 


County   of ) 

Cut  the  printed  notice  from  the  news- 
paper and  attach  here. 


Forward  notice  to  Comptroller  of  Cur- 
rency as  promptly  as  possible. 


being  duly  sworn,  deposes 
and    says    that    he    is    the 

publisher   of  a   

newspaper  published  in  tlie 

of    County    of 

,    State    of    and 

that    the    annexed     adver- 


tisement of  the  Comptrol- 
ler's certificate  authorizing 
the to  begin  the  busi- 
ness of  banking  has  ap- 
peared in  each  issue  of 
said  paper  for  a  period  of 
at  least  sixty  days,  begin- 
ning the day  of . 

and  ending  the day  of 

,  19—. 


Subscribed  and  sworn  to  before  me,  a  — 
State  and  County  aforesaid,  this day  of 


in  and  for  the 
-,  19—. 


Seal  of 
Officer. 


188 


and  Documents 


XIV. 
STOCKHOLDERS'  PROXY 

KNOW  ALL  MEN  BY  THESE  PRESENTS 

That  of do  hereby  constitute  and  appoint  

and of or  either  of  them, attorneys  or  attorney, 

and  agents  or  agent  for and  in name, place  and  stead, 

to  vote,  as proxy,  at meeting  of  shareholders  of  the 

Bank  of ,  to  be  held  at  its  banking  house,  No. Street, 

in  the  City  of  ,  on   the  of   ,   19 — ,  between  the  hours 

of and o'clock,  and  at  any  adjourned  meeting  of  the 

said  shareholders,  for  the and  the  transaction  of  such  other 

business  as  may  be  brought  before  the  said  meeting,  according  to 

the  number  of  votes  that should  be  entitled  to  vote  if  then 

personally  present,  with  full  pow'er  of  substitution  and  revocation 

to  each  of said  attorneys,  hereby  ratifying  and  confirming 

all  that  said  attorneys  or  attorney,  or  their  or  his  substi- 
tutes or  substitute,  shall  lawfully  do  or  cause  to  be  done  by  virtue 
hereof. 

In  Witness  Whereof, have  hereunto  set 

hand  and  seal  this day  of 19 — 


Seal. 


Sealed  and  delivered  / 
in  presence  of       \ 


189 


Official  Forms 


XV. 

CONVERSION  OF  STATE  BANKS 

AUTHORITY   FOR   CONVERSION   OF   STATE   BANK 

We,  the  undersigned  stockholders  of  The  ,  located   in 

the  ,  county  of  ,  State  of  ,  having  a  capital  of 

dollars,  do  hereby  authorize  and  empower   the  directors 

thereof  to  change  and  convert  said  bank  into  a  national  banking 
association  under  the  provisions  of  Section  5154  of  the  Revised 
Statutes  of  the  United  States,  or  of  acts  amendatory  thereof; 
and  we  do  also  authorize  the  said  directors,  or  a  majority  thereof, 
to  make  and  execute  the  articles  of  association  and  organiza- 
tion certificates  required  to  be  made  or  contemplated  by  said 
Statutes;  and  also  to  make  and  execute  all  other  papers  and 
certificates,  and  to  do  all  acts  necessary  to  convert  the  said  bank 
into  a  national  banking  association,  and  to  do  and  perform  all 
such  acts  as  may  be  necessary  to  transfer  the  assets  of  every 
description  and  character  of  the  said  state  bank  to  the  national 
banking  association  into  which  it  is  to  be  converted,  so  that  the 
said  conversion  may  be  absolute  and  complete;  and  we  do  here- 
by assume,  and  authorize  the  said  directors  to  assume,  as  the 
name  of  the  national  banking  association  into  which   the   said 

state  bank  is  to  be  converted,  "The ;"   and  we  do  hereby 

appoint ,who  are  now  the  directors  of  the  said    state   bank, 

to  be  the  directors  of  the  said  national  bank,  to  hold  their  offices 
as  such  directors  until  the  regular  annual  election  of  directors  is 
held,  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  said  Revised  Statutes,  and 
until  their  successors  are  chosen  and  qualified ;  and  we  do  hereby 
authorize  the  said  directors  of  the  said  national  bank  to  continue 

190 


and  Documents. 


in  office  the  officers  of  the  said  state  bank,  or  to  appoint  or  elect 
others. 

In  Witness  Whereof,  we  have  hereunto  set  our  hands  and 
■written  against  our  names  the  number  of  shares  owned  by  us, 
respectively,  this day  of a.  d. . 


Signatures  of  Stockholders,  a 


No.  of  shares  owned  by  each. 


a  The  signatures  of  the  owners  of  at  least  two-thirds  of  the  stock. 


XVI. 

APPLICATION  TO  CONVERT  A  STATE  BANK  INTO  A 
NATIONAL  BANKING  ASSOCIATION 


19—. 


To  THE  Comptroller  of  the  Currency, 

Washington. 
Sir:    Notice  is  hereby  given  that  we,  the  undersigned,  being 

amajority  of  the  board  of  directors  of  "The ,"  having  a  paid 

in  and  unimpaired  capital  of  $ ,  intend  to  convert  the  said 

bank  into  a  National  Banking  Association,  in  accordance  with 
the  provisions  of  Section  515-i  of  the  Revised  Statutes  of  the 

United  States,  under  the  title,  "The ,"  to  be  located  at , 

county  of  ,  State   of ,  with  capital  of  $ ,  Popu- 
lation   . 

191 


Official  Forms 


We  request  that  the  title  be  reserved  for  a  period  of  sixty 
days  and  the  necessary  conversion  papers  and  instructions  sent 

to  at ,  hereby  agreeing  that  any  assets   of   the   state 

bank  which  cannot  be  legally  held  by  a  national  bank  will 
be  disposed  of  before  certificate  authorizing  conversion  and 
the  commencement  of  business  as  a  national  banking  associa- 
tion is  issued. 


Signatures  of  directors. 


Residences. 


XVII. 
ARTICLES  OF  ASSOCIATION 

(Executed  in  duplicate). 

We,   the   undersigned,  directors   of  the  ,   having    been 

authorized  by  the  owners  of  two-thirds  of  the  capital  stock  of 
said  bank  to  change  and  convert  the  said  bank  into  a  national 
banking  association,  under  the  provisions  of  section  5154  of  the 
Revised  Statutes  of  the  United  States,  or  of  acts  amendatory 
thereof,  and  to  execute  articles  of  association,  do  hereby,  in 
our  own  behalf,  and  in  behalf  of  the  Stockholders  whom  we 
represent,  make  and  execute  the  following  Articles  of  Asso- 
ciation : 

First.  The  title  of  the  association  into  which  the  said  state 
bank  is  to  be  changed  and  converted  shall  be  "The ." 

The  remaining  articles  may  be  the  same  as  the  Articles  of 
Association  given  in  Form  II. 

192 


and  Documents 


XVIII. 
ORGANIZATION  CERTIFICATE 

We,  the  undersigned,  directors  of  The ,  having  been  duly 

authorized  by  the  owners  of  two-thirds  of  its  capital  stock  to 
change  and  convert  said  bank  into  a  national  banking  asso- 
ciation, and  to  make  the  necessary  organization  certificate, 
under  the  provisions  of  Section  5154  of  the  Revised  Statutes  of 
the  United  States,  or  of  acts  amendatory  thereof,  do  sign  and  exe- 
cute the  following  organization  certificate,  which  we  hereby 
declare  we  are  authorized  to  make  by  the  owners  of  two-thirds 
of  the  capital  stock  of  the  said  state  bank. 

First.     The  title  of  this  association  shall  be  "The  ," 

Second.    The  said  association  shall  be  located  and  continued 

in  the  of ,  county  of and  State  of ,   where 

its  operations  of  discount  and  deposit  are  to  be  carried  on. 

Third.     The  capital  stock  of  this  association  shall   be  

dollars  ($ ),  divided  into  shares  of dollars  each, 

as  it  is  now  divided  in  the  said  state  bank. 

Fourth.  The  name  and  residence  of  each  of  the  stockholders 
of  the  said  state  bank,  which  is  to  become  a  national  bank  under 
the  provisions  of  the  Revised  Statutes  aforesaid,  and  the  number 

of  shares  of dollars  each,  held  by  each  stockholder,  are  as 

follows : 


Name. 

Residence. 

No.  of 
shares. 

103 


Official  Forms 


Fifth.  This  certificate  is  made  in  order  that  the  said  state 
bank  and  the  stockholders  thereof,  may  avail  themselves  of  the 
advantages  of  the  aforesaid  Revised  Statutes,  and  that  the  said 
state  bank  may  be  changed  and  converted  into  a  national  bank- 
ing association,  under  the  foregoing  title. 

In  Witness  Whereof,  we  have  hereunto  set  our  hands  this 
day  of , , 


(The  signatures  of  a  majority  of   directors  required.) 

State  of ) 

)  ss: 
County  of ) 


Before  the  undersigned,  a of ,  personally  appeared 


directors  of  the  aforesaid  state  bank,  to  me  well  known,  who 
severally  acknowledged  that  they  executed  the  foregoing  cer- 
tificate for  the  purposes  therein  mentioned. 

Witness  my  hand  and  seal  of  oflBce  this day  of , . 


OflBcial  Seal 
of  OflBcer. 


194 


and  Documents 


XIX. 

CERTIFICATE  RELATIVE  TO  PAYMENT  OF  CAPITAL 

STOCK  OF  STATE  BANK  CONVERTING  INTO 

NATIONAL  BANK 


It  is  hereby  certified,   that   the 


Bank   of  - 
-  National 


Bank 


which  is  to  be  converted  into  "The 

of  -,"  in  conformity  with  the  provisions  of  section  5154  of 

the  Revised  Statutes  of  the  United  States,  authorizing  the  con- 
version of  "any  bank  incorporated  by  special  law  or  any  bank- 
ing institution  organized  under  a  general  law  of  any  State,"  has 
a  paid  in  and  unimpaired  capital  of  $ — — . 

,  President. 

2!! »  Cashier. 

State  of 


County   of 

Subscribed  and  sworn  to  before  the  undersigned,  a 
the  said  county,  this day  of ,  19 — .' 


of 


Official  seal 
of  officer. 


(Official  Title)- 


Official  Signatukes  of  Officers  of  the ,  Located 

IN  the  State  of . 


Original  signatures 


Date  of  election  or 
appointment 


Names  of 
predecessors 


Seal  of 
Bank. 


195 


Official  Forms 


XX. 

ORIGINAL  ORDER  FOR  PLATES  AND 
CIRCULATION 

Charter  No.  . 


National 


Bank  of 


19- 


To  THE  CoafPTRGLLER  OF  THE  CuBRENCY. 

Sir:  You  are  requested  to  have  plates  engraved  for  this 
bank,  the  cost  to  be  paid  upon  demand,  and  circulating  notes 
printed  therefrom  as  follows: 


Cost  of 
plates. 


75 
75 
50 


No.  of 

sheets 

ordered. 


Denominations  on  sheets. 


Value 

per 

sheet. 


$5,  $5,  $5,  $5 

$10,  $10,  $10,  $20. 
$10,  $10,  $10,  $10. 
$50,  $100 


Total. 


Respectfully, 


50 

40 

150 


Amount  of 
Circulation 


Cashier. 


196 


and  Documents 


XXI. 

SUPPLEMENTARY  ORDER 


Charter  No. 


-19—. 


To  THE  Comptroller  of  the  Currency. 

Sir:  You  are  requested  to  have  printed  under  the  national 
bank  act  for  this  bank  circulating  notes  in  blank  to  the  amount 
of  (see  foot  note)  dollars,  and  of  the  following  denomi- 
nations, viz  : 


No.  of 
sheets. 


Plates. 


Sheets,  $5,  $5,  $5,  $5 ($20  per  sheet) 

Sheets,  $10,  $10,  $10,  $iO ($50  per  sheet) 

Sheets,  $10,  $10,  $10,  $10.  .  .  .  ($40  per  sheet) 
Sheets,  $50,  $100 ($150  per  sheet) 

Total ' 


Respectfully, 


Amount. 


Cashier. 


197 


Official  Forms 


XXII. 

AUTHORITY  TO  WITHDRAW  BONDS 

"A" 


,  19—. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the Bank  of 

,  held  at  their  banking  house  ,   19 — ,  the  following 

resolution  was  adopted : 

"Resolved,  That  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  be,  and  he 

is  hereby,  authorized  to  withdraw  $ ,  U.  S.  bonds,  deposited 

with  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States  by  this  bank  to  secure 
circulation,  and  described  as  follows : 

$ of  the  loan  of 


$- 


and  that be,  and  is  hereby,  authorized  to  sell,  assign,  and 

transfer  the  same,  and  to  appoint  one  or  more  attorneys  for  that 
purpose. 


I  hereby  certify  that  the  above  is  a  true  extract  from  the  minutes 
of  said  meeting. 


Cashier,  and  Secretary  of  the  Board  of  Directors. 


Seal  of 
Bank. 


Note. — The  Treasurer's  receipts  for  the  bond  proposed  to  be  with- 
drawn must  be  forwarded  (with  the  form  properly  filled)  to  the  Comp- 
troller of  the  Currency. 

198 


and  Documents 


XXIII. 
"D." 


19—. 


At  a  meeting  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the Bank  of 

— ,  held  at  their  banking  house,  ,   19 — ,  the  following 


resolution  was  adopted: 

Resolved,  That  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  be,  and  he  is 

hereby,  authorized  to  withdraw  $ ,  U.  S.  bonds,  deposited 

with  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States  by  this  bank  to  secure 
circulation,  and  described  as  follows: 

$ of  the  loan  of 


and  that  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  be,  and  is  hereby, 
authorized  to  deliver  the  same  to  the  Treasurer  of  the  United 
States  in  trust,  as  security  for  public  deposits  with  this  bank. 

I  hereby  certify  that  the  above  is  a  true  extract  from  the 
minutes  of  said  meeting. 


Cashier  and  Secretary  of  the  Board  of  Directors. 


Seal  of 
Bank. 


Note. — The  Treasurer's  receipts  for  the  bonds  proposed  to  be 
withdrawn  must  be  forwarded  (with  this  form  properly  filled)  to  the 
Comptroller  of  the  Currency. 

199 


Official  Forms 


XXIV. 

Charter  No 


POWER  OF  ATTORNEY 

Know  all  Men  by  these  Presents,  That  the  Riggs 
National  Bank  of  the  City  of  Washington,  District  of  Columbia, 
is  hereby  appointed  the  true  and  lawful  agent  of  the 

National  Bank  of 

to  receive  from  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  for  and  in  be- 
half of  said  bank  any  incomplete  national  bank  currency  which 
may  hereafter  be  due  and  issuable  to  it  under  Sections  5171  or 
5184,  Revised  Statutes  of  the  United  States,  or  under  Section 
6,  Act  of  July  12,  1882,  and  this  bank  will  be  responsible  for 
the  redemption  of  currency  so  delivered  to  said  agent,  the  same 
as  if  delivered  directly  to  the  bank. 

In  witness  whereof,  I  have  hereunto  set  my  hand  and  affixed 

the  corporate  seal  of  said  bank,  this 

day  of ,  19 


President  or  Cashier. 
[Seal] 


200 


and  Documents 


XXV. 

SEMI-ANNUAL  RETURN  OF  CIRCULATION  SUBJECT 
TO  DUTY 

To  be  forwarded  to  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States, Washington,  D.C. 

Return  of  the  average  amount  of  notes  of  the National 

Bank  of  ,  State  of  ,  in  circulation  for  the  six 

months  ending  the  30th  day  of  June,  1910,  with  the  duty  thereon 
made  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Section  5215,  Revised 
Statutes  of  the  United  States,  and  the  Act  of  March  14,  1900,  in 
order  to  enable  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States  to  assess  the 
duty  on  circulation  imposed  by  Section  S^l-l  of  said  statutes, 
as  amended  by  Section  1  of  "An  Act  to  reduce  internal-revenue 
taxation,  and  for  other  purposes,"  approved  March  3,  1883, 
and  the  said  Act  of  March  U,  1900. 
Average  amount  of  notes  in  circulation  for  the  period 

based  on  U.  S.  bonds  of  the  Panama  Canal  Loan, 

and  U.  S.  two  per  cent  Consols  of  1930 $ 

Duty  on  average  amount  of  notes  in  circulation  based  on  U. 

S.  bonds  of  the  Panama  Canal  Loan,  and  U.  S.  two  per 

cent  Consols  of  1930,  at  one-fourth  of  one  per  cent $ 

Average    amount   of    notes    in    circulation    for    the 

period  based  on  any  or  all  other  U.  S.  bonds.  . .  .$ 

Duty  on  average  amount  of  notes  in  circulation  based  on 

all  other  U.  S.  bonds  at  one-half  of  one  per  cent $ 

Total  amount  of  duty $ 

I,  ,  of  the  above-named   National   Bank,   do  solemnly 

swear  that  the  above  is  a  true  statement  of  the  average  amount 
of  notes  of  said  bank  in  circulation  for  the  time  named. 


Seal  of 
Bank. 


Subscribed  and  sworn  to  before  me  this day 

■ :       of ,  19—. 


2-1030  Bank  No. 

[See  instructions  on  back] 

201 


Official  Forms  and  Documents 


XXVI. 

STATEMENT    OF    BONDS    OF    NATIONAL    BANKS 

HELD   AS   SECURITY   FOR   CIRCULATION   AND 

PUBLIC  MONEY 


Organization  No.  

Tlie  following  statement  of  the  bonds  held  by  the  Treasurer 

of  the  United  States  in  trust  for  —  National  Bank  of 

,  on  the day  of  ,  19 — ,  as  shown  by  the  books  of 

the  said  Association,  is  furnished  for  use  in  the  examination  and 
comparison  of  said  bonds  required  to  be  made  annually  by 
Section  5166  of  the  Revised  Statutes  of  the  United  States: 


KINDS  OF  BONDS 


2  per  cent  Consols  of  1930 

2  per  cent  Panama  Canal  Loan. 

3  per  cent  Loan  of  1908-1918  . . 

4  per  cent  Loan  of  1925 

Philippine  Loans 

Territory  of  Porto  Rico 

Territory  of  Hawaii. 


Bonds  held  to 
secure  circulat- 
ing notes 


Bonds  held  to 

secure  public 

money 


Total. 


Correct  as  to  bonds  held 
to  secure  circulating 
notes. 

For  Comptroller  of  the 
Currency. 


Cashier. 


2-5860 


202 


XXVIL 

BANK   RESERVES 

FORMS  FOR  CALCULATING  RESERVE 


CALCULATION  OF  THE  LAWFUL  UONEY  RESERVE  OF  NATIONAL  BANKS  LOCATED  IN  RESERVE 
CITIES  AND  CENTRAL  RESERVE  CITIES. 


Report  of  tho  Btete  of  UwftU  mocey  r 
.- .  State  of  — 


N.  B.— Jf  this  aoconipaiiieB  a  Bepoit  of  CoDdition  It  slhOTild  be  Bleiied  by  . 
If  il  oecompauies  a  Koport  of 'Exandnation  it  ahcmld  be  signed  by  . 


ITEMG  ON  WHICH  RESERVE  IS  TO  BE  COMPUTED. 


SlioaJd  the  i 
from"  teu 

troiD  Uje 


J.J-»l,C*. 

Dq6  W  TTBfft  Companies,  Gto 

.. 

•IndiT^dtul  I>epoBitJ 

DepoaiU  of  U.  8.  £ 

Qnmamous 

DEDUCTIONS  ALLOW 

habDi^ngOa 

Sten 

ED. 

Kiclumges  for  OleftriBg 
Bills  of  other  KationaTI 

. 

— 

tA-KST- 

is  the  ontiro  Eesarre  required,  which  la 

Deduct  5  per  coatjaedemptioii  BSmd  with  Ti 

Ket  Raeerve  to  be  ha 

reaBiirerU.S. 

Id 

. 





rrCMS  COMPOSING  THE  NET  RESERVE  AND  THE  OISTRJBUTlON  QF  THE  SAME. 


OiL&*hAlf  of  the  Not  Beservo  is    

Iterma  making  np  the  Bome  nay  consifli 
of  *  Balances  with  following  approved 
BaHrvB  Ageate, 


Exoeu  with  Roeorvc  A^onts 

DQfldB&oy  with  Reserve  Agcoota..  ^ 


Ono-holf  of  the  Vot  Best 
Items  In  BonFs  possess, 
same,  viz* 

dts 

OQ  to  make  dp  the 

— 

Silver  Treasury  OerlfB.. 

Gold  Treaeury  Oert's, . . 

Lbgal-TeDder  Not«9 

Gold  OorttflcatoB  pay- 

6.LCvAbrUiaJUpl-Tal(n. 

bvihn 

Bi^nV 

DoHatflDo^iaitamalLold  by 

^oBah 

k.„. 



„ 

Exooas  in  the  entire  Heeerro  hold,  %_ 


RECAPrrULATlOM. 

Dofiotaaoy  in  tho  eotfro  Reaorve  bold,  lu. 


■  U  ndpronl  aecpaata  U9  kvpt  vHIi  nmm  a^sAm,  <tiij  tttn  mi  aaoaatdii*  from  neb  •geata  H  n«fWik»  lorn 

M.  B^-BttDki  in  Fm  Tork  City,  Cti]av>>  >i>l  BL  LoDia,  sad  Id  cilka  U>co«aIiig  OvttBl  BaiD-nt  GUka  mdcg  ttw  Ml  i4  Ibnb  *,  UB7. 1 


t  ka^  th«  wbofo  o# 


203 


Official  Forms  and  Documents 


XXVIII. 


Mr  nirt  Dlr«cton  cboold  bctf  1 


0  daclw*  any  dlvlteoA  wIho  IU  Rcaw*  U  balow  tk«  Ivgal  rwqolmneal. 


CALCULATION   OF  THE   LAWFUL  MONEY  RESERVE  OF  NATIONAL  BANKS   LOCATED  ELSE- 
WHERE  THAN  IN  RESERVE  CITIES  AND  CENTRAL  RESERVE  CITIES 


.._    Beport  of  the  tteta  of  lawful  money  raaerVe  of  the  - 
■    ■■ ,  State  of — 


N.  B.— U  thi*  •ooompuiM  *  Beport  of  OondMon  St  abOBld  beAigaed  by  . 
If  It  aooompanleB  »  Beport  of  Sxamlnatlon  it  should  bo  aj^oed  by  . 


ITEMS  ON  WHICH  RESERVE  IS  TO  BE  COMPUTED. 

T.T/tTnXJTT-HlB. 


«Mo 


DDoto"  BA£i]ca,totli 


Doftto  NaFtiional  Baoto  , 

Dus  to  State  B&n^  uxd  Baokera   . 

Dae  to  TrostCompAQlei,  eto 

"B«t  liAiUM  iu  to  KppnTaA  SaMm  i<«nli. 

Dita.2»o&  other. Kotkmal  Beoks... 
Due  from  State  BaakB  aad  Bankers . 
Dos  from  Tnui  Oompaoie^  etc  . . . 


Dtvideode  ""p*-tA ..... 

bkdi^aal  Depoelte  ...» 

Depoidts  of  n.  S.  Diabundn^  Offloen.. 

Qroas^amoani. 

OEpUCmONS  AL1X>,WE0. 
Oheolw oa otbar  Baziki  In  thoeamoplwe.... 

Vsohanget  for  Olaarin^  Hottflb........ 

BOla  of  otlier  NatJooal  BatcOn 

Diu  tram  U.  8.  Traaanrer  .m..^... 


Fifieaa  perceni  of  ^ils  amotmt  ^^ 

U  the  entire  Beserve  reqnirod,  vfaioh  i«.. 

Dedtutfi  per  cent  Bedemptkni  Fund  with  Treesarer  U-S 
Net  Beserre  to  be  held 


ITEMa  COMPOSING  THE  NET  RESERVE  AND  THE  DISTRIBUTION  OP  THE  SAME. 


Thre»>fifth8  of  the  Net  Reeerre  U 

Items  making  up  the  same  may  oonilst 
of  *  Balances  with  following  approved 
Beeeive  Afenta.  viz 


Excess  with  Saserve  Agents 

Deflfiienoy  with  Beeerre  Agenta. . 


Two-fifths  of  the  Ket  Beeonre  is 
Jtems  in  Bank  which  may  lawfu 
the  same,  visi 

Qymakenp 

— 

Silver  Treasory  Oert's.. 

— 

Legal-Tender  TTotee .... 
Odd  Oertific&tes  psy- 

a  LCiriS  WCa oJUal-TalBi. 

£x<;eeB  hi  the  two-fifths  Besarre  held 

Deficiency  is  t2ie  two-fifths  Beserve  held. 

— 



Exeeaa  in  the  entire  ReservB  held,  ft— 


RECAPITUtATION, 
Deficianoy  ts  the  en&o  Beaeive  held,  i. 


1  da*  Ims  iiKb  at«Si  ^  AvtO^ilo  lor  fi 


204 


XXIX. 

GOVERNMENT  DEPOSITS 

CERTIFICATE  OF  DEPOSIT 


ii 
J.J 

]\\ 

'  0  ' 

;  J 


Form  1— NkdofuU  ] 


No.. 


The  National  City  Bank  of  New  York, 

Ntw  York,  N.  Y., 


3  rprtlfjj  £&,/_ 


jlaa  A(u  </a^  ^au/^/  Ai  /j(a  Cie^tit  ^ ^^    TREASURER  OP  THE    UNITED   StATES 


a^  account  <3^— 


y&t  i^AicA  %7  Aaiii«  <;Uy4T«</ /s/fO^ai^  Ji€c^4fU:A. 


If 


PonD  1 — NadonaJ  Banks. 


No. 


The  National  City  Bank  of  New  York, 

Ntw  York,  N.  y  . 


9  rrrtifg  js£u 


Aai  //Lt  iiay  tlyMiUtJ  to  l/L  C,»di/o^/^-  TkBASURBR  OP  THE   UNITED  STATES 

1  jO<i/ui14, 


an  a<HMun/  **^~~ 


% _ 


LJ 

1- 

< 

O 

J 

Q. 

nr 

1- 

PoTTQ  1— NadoDAl  Biaks. 


No.. 


The  National  City  Bank  of  New  York. 

Ntm  Yart,  N.  Y., 


31  rriUfa  /5^.^_ 


jCu  1/L.i  <iau  d^aoMUJ  ia  l^  (mJ^/  o/l/l*    TREASURER  OP  THE    UNITED   STATES 
Oft  acc^Mut/  o^ . 


% 


205 


a 


"i 


?<?  2; 


I  ^- 


H 

:z; 

o 

o 

ty 

u 

Q 

< 

Q 

X 

^i 

0; 

f^i 

O 

1— (  _ 

b. 

pi'? 

o** 

cri 

J?; 

! 

<: 

i 

« 

I 

H 

a. 

la 


« 

J 

C-i 

o 

3 

ON  ACCOUNT  0F_ 
(Give  full  Information  as  contained 
in  the  oertifioate.     If  one  certificate 
covers  two  or   more  classes   of  de- 
posits, state  eaoh  olass  leparatelj. ) 

t 

i 

n 
a 

si 

go 

H 

1    ^' 
E  s  = 

II 

i 

s 
s 

g 

•< 

» 

— 

i 

1    6 

i 

d 

1 

i 

1 

s 
s 

206 


Official  Forms  and  Documents 


u 


1 


I 
1 


1. 

f 

X 

'1 

X 

s 

.*»     •• 

■«-   -2 

•S-  ^ 

£  -s 

t-i   -3 

3 

this 
ing 

t  side 
early 

^   "S 

fc   ^ 

^         Q 

E^     2 

2  « 


a  GQ 


Oh-'" 


^      3 


S   O 


•M  -^    ^ 


•2   -^    ^ 


.2     c    s 


«  '^  _, 


;§ 


is  ° 

o  ^ 

-^       ^  -a 

-5     «  ^ 


c 

e3 


^^  *5S  f^ 

i  -S  Ph  .S 

.2  o  £  ^ 

•  *-  Ui  O 


c3 

oil 

-M     k2     "O 

-5     c 


•E    O 

c 

O     1^ 

5   'O 
2  ^ 


2       V 


•S   H, 


C3 

1  - 

s  = 

.2  cfi 


2    i   -3 


o    -5         „ 


J  m 


42 

a. 


o   O 


^    "w 


o 

4) 

a 

o 

1 

"o 

1 

>> 

c 
o 

1 

•S 

.S 

o 

tc 

rt 

if 

o3 

'M 

o 

o 

^ 

(L, 

i) 

(U 

O 

a. 

'U 

en 

S3 
c 

^ 

r) 

o 

2 

1 

o 

e3 

2 

71 

a. 

^ 

Ut 

c 

a 

H 

Q 

o 

•^    —    ^ 


s  — !    e 


u 


207 


Official  Forms 


■S  a 


>■■? 


•S'S'^ 

-^  o 

1^-5 

a  a  a 

ect. 
lead 
tten 
wn, 

^ 

perf 

with 

y  wn 

dra 

Sn 

^       ~   S 

1 

nd  lega 
ted,  no 
incorre 
dorsed 

'■« 

a   a   m   a 

s 

••* 

•1 

nically 
not  pri 
payee  i 
or  be  i 

d 

E^ 

1   fl^   § 

1 

-t3 

1 

s: 

M 

H  -C    °    <u 

« 

ements  a 

nuine  w 

he  name 

for  con 

X 

i3. 

Si 

2  Si^M 

°       5h 


•3        ^    S 


4)   _; 

■a   fl 

0)     p 


:«  i:  'i^  ii 


E  P  S  S 

a  - 


S)     n     O     Q)     <»     O 

o  « ■=  o  a  2 


-  .S  .2  o  2 
o  'o    <u    9 


3  ,2      - 


£    -*: 


o   J)  <a  fc, 


•^       =       ?(« 


oj  _a> 


.9  -a  "5 


3^1 
Co-" 


5  o. 

-     O) 

If 

O    3 


•*  -O         X! 


;5  a 

'^  3  a 
■3  ■"  .S 

sa  §  ^ 


■  a  S 
.2  t: 


0^     OJ     O 


>>   O  13    OJ 


0)      C3     CR 
r^     a>     *-> 


■c"   2?  ?  .g  -a  "? 


5)     O 

a  ja 


J3    2  "o    tS 


«3  .2 


o  S  o  15 


O     (U     jj 


a  -^ 
5  S 


' «  a 

>  "5   o 
_>> 


&      &rS     2 


a  >> 


^-?  ¥  s 


d  a  ^ 


-Q  OS  ti    .  i« 


<U    (U  Ji  -O  ■- 


3  .2  -^  3  a  -s  3  i^ 


1  «  "  S  >.S 

oj    (S    °S    m    C 


Q.     !>      <« 

^a  g 


•P   -2    -B    ^   T3     ^ 
>     ra     fci     O    c8  -? 


05  60  m    g 

6  I'a^ 


T3         i3    3    c 
-    -     -     o    -2 


?!  a  .^  o  ffl 


a    -^  g 

O         ^  y3 

"8  g  .2  .a 


-3  5  o  fc;  .9 


•=  -S  2.  «3 


s  a 


a  <y  a  ^2  4j 

a  o  ■*  "a  -g 
§  &  S  a  3 


7,   3   o 


a  a  E  a 

^  (3  rt 

t"  o.  a  a 

a  8  a 


■£  5  o  lu  a  S 

■  _-  o  ^  2 ;::  -c 


^  >.. 


1^ 


9   a)   fl  -^^  ■?;   g 


^ 

a 

^ 

o 

(i> 

1 

o 

■0 

o 

a 

a 

-o 

3 

11^7^^^° 


S    <"    fe 


5  ^5 


-  >>  4?  >> 


•?,  £  .9  S  "a  2  -     "s 


ata 
go 


^4        ti 

2  i? 


OS  CQ 

73      « 


s  a  .a  a  -     g  a 


a   >> 


a  £ 


a  2  la 


"S  ^  3  «; 


>  2^ 


^  2 

fl  3 
o   2 


1  2  a  2  a 

03  rt  --  o   a 


C.   ° 


o  5  3.ii 

a  a  s^  r; 


^  a 


»  2  " 


«  3-2 


bO 


•=•? 


b     03 
8  CQ 


wG  a; 


<u    •"    p 

c  ^  o 


OJ  ~  0]  FI 

■a  S  -a  H 

o  ^  -^ 

a  „  cod 

-o  a  5 

a  o  j3 

C9  U  09 


•^     > 


208 


and  Documents 


XXXI. 
LIST  OF  BALANCES 

(These  lists  must  be  rendered  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  and 
Treasurer  of  the  United  States  on  Saturday  of  each  week,  and  an  addi- 
tional set  on  the  last  day  of  each  month,  except  when  the  month  ends  on 
Saturday.) 

List  of  Balances  standing  to  the  Official  Credit  of  Disbursing 

and  other  officers  of  the  United  States  on  the  books  of  the at 

the  close  of  business  on  the day  of ,  19 — . 


Rank. 

Name. 

ExecutiveDepart- 
ment  under  which 
the  officer  is  serv- 
ing,  as    "  Treas- 
ury," "War,"  In- 
terior," etc  . 

Capacity  in 
which  the  Of- 
ficer is  acting 
and  disburs- 
ing money. 

Amount  on 

Deposit  to 

the  Officer's 

Official 

Credit. 

209 


Official  Forms 


XXXIi. 

LIST  OF  DEPOSITS 


To. 


Washington,  D.  C. 

(A  separate  list  should  be  rendered  for  the  deposits  of  each  officer  for 
each  account.) 

List  of  Deposits  made  with  the National  Bank  at , 

State  of ,  to  the  credit  of  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States, 


for  receipts  on  account  of 


for  the  period  ended ,  19- 


Date. 

No. of  CD, 

Depositor. 

Amount. 

Total. 

' 

210 


and  Documents 


xxxm. 

LIST  OF  DEPOSITS 


To  be  made  out  and  forwarded  at  close  of  business  each  day. 
May  report  by  postal  card  if  preferred. 


-National Bank, 


Aggregate  deposits  to  credit  of  Treasurer  U.  S. 

received  this  day $_ 

Aggregate  balance  to  credit  of  Disbursing  Officers 

this  day $_ 

Payments  this  day 

Transfer  of  JDeposits $_ 

Treasury  Warrants $_ 

Counter  Entries $ 


To  Treasurer  U.  S., 

Washington,  D.  C. 


-,  19- 


Cashier. 


211 


Official  Forms 


XXXIV. 
DATES  FOR  RENDERING  TRANSCRIPTS 

Treasury  Department 

OFFICE  OF  THE 

TREASURER  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES 

Washington,  November  1,  1909. 
The  following  is  a  list  of  the  dates  on  which  transcripts  of 
accounts  current  should  be  rendered  to  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury  and  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States  during  the 
year  1910: 


January 

8 

15 

22 

31 

February 

5 

12 

19 

28 

March 

5 

12 

19 

31 

April 

9 

16 

23 

30 

May  

7 

14 

21 

31 

June                      

4 

11 

18 

30 

July         

9 

16 

23 

30 

August            

6 

13 

20 

31 

September     

10 

17 

24 

30 

October         

8 

15 

22 

31 

November 

5 

12 

19 

30 

December                              

10 

17 

24 

31 

212 


and  Documents 


XXXV. 

RESOLUTION  FOR  WITHDRAWAL  OF  BONDS 
HELD  TO  SECURE  PUBLIC  MONEYS 


19—. 


At  a  meeting  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Bank  of 

— ,  held  at  their  banking  house,  ,   19 — ,  the  following 


resolution  was  adopted: 

Resolved,  That  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States  be,  and  he 

is  hereby,  authorized  to  withdraw  $ ,  U.  S.  bonds,  held  for 

account  of  this  bank  as  security  for  public  moneys,  and  described 
as  follows: 

$ of  the  loan  of 


and  that be,  and  is  hereby,  authorized  to  sell,  assign,  and 

transfer  the  same,  and  to  appoint  one  or  more  attorneys  for  that 
purpose. 

I  hereby  certify  that  the  above  is  a  true  extract  from  the  minutes 
of  said  meeting. 


Cashier,  and  Secretary  of  the  Board  of  Directors. 


Seal  of 
Bank 


Note. — The  name  of  an  officer  of  the  Treasury  Department  must 
not  be  inserted  in  the  line  left  blank.  The  bank's  agent  or  other  person 
may  be  designated. 

The  Treasurer's  receipt  for  the  bonds  proposed  to  be  withdrawn 
must  be  forwarded  (with  this  form  properly  nlled)  to  the  Treasurer 
of  the  United  States. 

213 


Official  Forms 


XXXVI. 

RESOLUTION     FOR     WITHDRAWAL     OF     BONDS 
HELD    TO    SECURE    PUBLIC    MONEYS 


,  19—. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Bank  of 

,  held  at  their  banking  house,  ,   19 — ,  the  following 

resolution  was  adopted: 

Resolved,  That  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States  be,  and  he 

is  hereby,  authorized  to  withdraw  $ ,  U.  S.  bonds,  held  for 

account  of  this  bank  as  security  for  public  moneys,  and  described 
as  follows: 

$ of  the  loan  of 


and  that  the  Treasurer  of  the  United  States  be,  and  is  hereby, 
authorized  to  deliver  the  above-described  bonds  to  the  Comp- 
troller of  the  Currency  to  be  redeposited  with  the  Treasurer  of 
the  ITnited  States  as  security  for  the  circulating  notes  of  the  bank. 

I  hereby  certify  that  the  above  is  a  true  extract  from  the  minutes 
of  said  meeting. 


Cashier,  and  Secretary  of  the  Board  of  Directors. 


Seal  of 
Bank. 


Note. — The  Treasurer's  receipts  for  the  bonds  proposed  to  be 
withdrawn  must  be  forwarded  (with  this  form  properly  filled)  to  the 
Treasurer  of  the  United  States. 

2U 


and  Documents 


XXXVII. 

TO  BE  FILLED  IN  BY  COLLECTORS.        TO  BE  FILLED  IN  BY  INTERNAL 

REVENUE   BUREAU. 

List  No Assessment  List 19.  . 

Class Page Line 

District  of Date  received 19. . 

UNITED  STATES  INTERNAL  REVENUE 
RETURN  OF  ANNUAL  NET  INCOME 

(Section  38,  Act  of  Congress  approved  August  5,  1909.) 

BANKS  AND  OTHER  FINANCIAL  INSTITUTIONS 

Return  of  Net  Income  received  during  the  Year  ending 

December  31, 19.  . .  .  by ,  a  corporation, 

the  principal  place  of  business  of  which  is  located  at 

in  the  State  of 

1.  Total  amount  of  paid-up  stock  outstanding  at 

close  of  year $ 

2.  Total  amount  of  bonded  or  other  indebtedness  out- 

standing at  close  of  year $ 

3.  Gross  Income  (see  Note  A) $ 

Deductions 


4.  Total  amount  of  all  the  ordinary  and  nec- 

essary expenses  of  maintenance  and 
operation  of  the  business  and  proper- 
ties of  the  corporation  (see  Note  B) .  . 

5.  (o)  Total   amount   of   losses   sus- 

tained January  1  to  Decem- 
ber 31 ". $ 

(h)  Total  amount  of  depreciation 

January  1  to  December  31 .   $ 

Total  (see  Note  B) 


215 


Official  Forms 


6.  (a)  Total  amount  of  Interest  Janu- 

ary 1  to  December  31  on 
bonded  or  other  indebted- 
ness to  an  amount  not  to 
exceed  amount  of  paid-up 
capital  at  close  of  year  (see 

Note  B) $ 

{h)  Total  amount  of  interest  paid 

within  the  year  on  deposits .    $ 

Total  (see  Note  B) $ 

7.  (a)  Total  taxes  paid  January  1  to 

December  31  imposed  un- 
der authority  of  the  United 
States  of  any  State  or  Terri- 
tory thereof $ 

(6)  Foreign  taxes  paid $ 

Total  (see  Note  B) $ 

8.  Amount   received    by   way   of   dividends 

upon  stock  of  other  corporations, 
joint-stock  companies,  associations, 
and  insurance  companies  subject  to 

this  tax $ 

Total  deductions $ 

9.  Net  Income $ 

10.  Specific  deduction  from  net  income  allowed  by  law.    $5,000 

11.  Amount  on  which  tax  at  one  per  centum  is  to  be 

calculated  for  assessment $ 

State  of I  rp       • . . 

County  of j 

President,  and Cashier  of.  . 

the corporation,   whose  return  of  annual  net 

income  is  set  forth  above,  being  severally  duly  sworn,  each  for 
himself,  deposes  and  says  that  the  foregoing  report  and  the  several 
items  therein  set  forth  are,  to  his  best  knowledge  and  belief  and 
from  such  information  as  he  has  been  able  to  obtain,  true  and 

216 


and  Documents 


correct  in  each  and  every  particular;  that  the  amount  of  gross 
income  therein  set  forth  is  the  full  amount  of  the  gross  income, 
without  any  deduction  whatsoever,  received  from  all  sources  by 
the  said  corporation  during  the  year  stated,  and  that  the  net 
income  therein  set  forth  is  the  full  amount  on  which  tax  is  proper 
to  be  assessed. 

Sworn  and  subscribed  to  before  me  this day  of.  ...  19. 


President. 


Cashier, 
_[Seal] 


Note  A. — Gross  income  shall  consist  of  the  total  amount  of  gross 
revenue  derived  from  the  operation  and  management  of  its  business  and 
properties,  together  \vith  all  amounts  of  income,  including  dividends  on 
stock  of  other  corporations,  joint-stock  companies,  and  associations  sub- 
ject to  this  tax,  derived  from  all  sources  as  shown  by  the  entries  on  its 
books  from  January  1  to  December  31  of  the  year  for  which  return  is 
made. 

Note  B. — The  deductions  authorized  shall  include  all  expense  items 
under  the  various  heads  acknowledged  as  liabilities  by  the  corporation 
making  the  return  and  entered  as  such  on  its  books  from  January  1  to 
December  31. 

Note  C. — This  form,  properly  filled  out  and  executed,  must  be 
in  the  hands  of  the  Collector  of  Internal  Revenue  for  the  district  in 
which  is  located  the  principal  office  of  the  corporation  making  the 
return,  on  or  before  March  1. 


217 


Official  Forms 


XXXVIII. 

NOTICE   OF   SHAREHOLDERS' 
MEETING 

FORM  OF  NOTICE 
The National  Bank  of 


(Date.) 


Dear  Sir: Meeting  of  the  Shareholders  of  this  Bank,  for 

the  and  the  transaction  of  such  other  business  as  may  be 

brought  before  it,  will  be  held  at  its  Banking  House,  No.  

Street,  on at . 

If  unable  to  be  personally  present  at  the  meeting,  please  sign 
and  return  in  the  enclosed  envelope  the  attached,  proxy  duly 
witnessed. 

Yours  respectfully, 


President. 
(See  Form  XIV  for  proxy.) 


218 


and  Documents 


XXXIX. 

AMENDMENT  OF  ARTICLES  OF  ASSOCIATION 
OF  NATIONAL  BANK 

In  accordance  with  and  in  pursuance  of  the  provision.s  of 
"An  Act  to  enable  national  banking  associations  to  extend  their 
corporate  existence,  and  for  other  purj)oses,"  approved  July  12, 

1882,  we,  the  undersigned  shareholders  of  "The ,"  located 

at ■  in  the  county  of and  State  of ,  owning  the  num- 
ber of  shares  of  the  capital  stock  of  said  association  set  opposite 
our  respective  names,  aggregating  not  less  than  two-thirds  of 
the  stock  of  said  association,  do  hereby  consent  and  agree  that 
the  article  of  the  articles  of  association  of  said  na- 
tional banking  association  be,  and  is  hereby,  amended  to  read 
as  follows: 

"This  Association  shall  continue  until  close  of  business  on 

,  19 — ,  unless  sooner  placed  in  voluntary  liquidation  by  the 

act  of  its  shareholders  owning  at  least  two-thirds  of  its  stock,  or 
otherwise  dissolved  by  authority  of  law." 

In  Witness  Whereof,  we,  the  undersigned,  have  hereto 
set  our  hands. 


Date  of 

signing. 

Signature  of 
shareholder. 

Address. 

Signature  of 
proxy. 

No.  of 
shares. 

219 


Official  Forms 


CERTIFICATE 

To  THE  Comptroller  of  the  Currency. 

Washington,  D.  C. 

Sir:  In  pursuance  of  the  provisions  of  "An  act  to  enable 
national  banking  associations  to  extend  their  corporate  existence, 
and  for  other  jjurposes,"  approved  July  12,  1882,  I  hereby  cer- 
tify that  shareholders  owning  not  less  than  two-thirds  of  the 

capital  stock  of  "The  ,"  have  consented  in  writing  to  the 

extension  of  the  charter  of  said  association;  that  the  signatures 
to  the  attached  amendment  of  the  articles  of  association, 
executed  in  duplicate,  are  the  true  and  correct  signatures  of  said 
shareholders,  or  of  their  lawfully  appointed  attorneys,  and  that 
one  of  the  instruments,  in  all  respects  like  the  other,  is  on  file  in 
the  bank. 

The  foregoing  certificate  is  made  under  seal  of  the  association 
in  accordance  with  a  resolution  of  the  board  of  directors  adopted 

at  a  meeting  held  on  the day  of ,  19 — ,  in  which  the 

president  or  cashier  was  also  authorized  to  make  an  application 
for  the  approval  of  the  amended  articles  of  association,  a  copy 
of  which  resolution  has  been  recorded  on  the  minute  book  of 
the  bank. 


President  or  Cashier 


Seal  of 
Bank 


(The  foregoing  certificate  should  not  be  made  prior  to  date  on  which 
the  amendment  is  last  signed.) 


220 


aj2d  Documents 


REQUEST  FOR  APPROVAL 

The  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  is  hereby  requested  to 
approve  the  foregoing  amendment  of  the  articles  of  association 
of  said  bank,  extending  its  corporate  existence  for  twenty  years, 
pursuant  to  the  act  of  Congress  entitled,  "An  act  to  enable 
national  banking  associations  to  extend  their  corporate  exist- 
ence, and  for  other  purposes,"  approved  July  12,  1882. 


President  or  Cashier. 


221 


Official  Forms 


XL. 

PROXY    FOR    USE    IN    EXTENDING    CORPORATE 
EXISTENCE  OF  A  NATIONAL  BANK 

Know  all  men  by  these  presents,  that  I, ,  of ,  hereby 

constitute  and  appoint  irrevocablj  my   true  and  lawful 

attorney,  for  me  and  in  my  name  and  stead  to  sign  all  necessary 
papers  in  connection  with  the  extension  of  the  corporate  exist- 
ence of  the ,  under  the  act  of  Congress  approved  July  12, 

1882,  or  any  amendment  of  said  act,  and  I  hereby  consent  that 

the article  of  the  articles  of  association  of  the ,   be   so 

amended  as  to  read  as  follows: 

"This   association  shall  continue  until  close  of  business  on 

,  unless  sooner  placed  in  voluntary  liquidation  by  the  act 

of  its  shareholders  owning  at  least  two-thirds  of  its  stock,  or 
otherwise  dissolved  by  authority  of  law." 

I  further  grant  unto  my  said  attorney  full  power  and  authority 
to  act  in  and  concerning  the  premises  as  fully  and  effectually  as  I 
might  do  if  personally  present. 

In  Witness  Whereof,  I  have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  — ~ 
day  of ,  in  the  year  one  thousand  nine  hundred  and . 


Signed  in  the  presence  of  two  witnesses: 


223 


and  Documents 


XLI. 

AUTHORITY  OF  REPRESENTATIVE  OF  OTHER 
CORPORATION  CONSENTING  TO  EXTEN- 
SION OF  CORPORATE  EXISTENCE 
OF  NATIONAL  BANK 


At  a  meeting  of  the of  the of ,  held  on  the 

day  of  ,  ,    it  was    voted,  that be,    and  he   is 

hereby,   appointed   irrevocably  as  its  attorney,  with  power  of 
substitution,  to  consent  to  and  sign,  in  its  behalf,  the  amendment 

of  the article  of   the    articles   of   association  of  The  — — 

National  Bank  ,  said  amendment  reading  as  follows: 

"This    association  shall  continue  until  close  of  business  on 

unless  sooner  placed  in  voluntary  liquidation  by  the  act 

of  its   shareholders  owning  at  least  two-thirds  of  its  stock,  or 
otherwise  dissolved  by  authority  of  law." 

A  true  copy  from  the  records. 

Attest : 

[affix  seal.] 


223 


Official  Forms 


XLII. 

CERTIFICATE  OF  AMENDMENT 

NATIONAL BANK 


19- 


To  THE  Comptroller  of  the  Currency, 

Washington,  D.  C. 

Sir:  I  do  hereby  certify,  in  pursuance  of  the  provisions  of 
"An  Act  to  enable  National  Banking  Associations  to  extend 
their  corporate  existence,  and  for  other  purposes,"  approved 
July  12,  1882,  that  the  amendment  of  the  Articles  of  Associa- 
tion, to  which  this  certificate  is  attached,  of  "The  ,"  and 

the  consent  thereto,  in  writing,  was  executed  in  duplicate  by 
shareholders  owning  not  less  than  two-thirds  of  the  stock  of  said 
bank;  and  I  do  further  certify  that  the  signatures  of  the  share- 
holders to  said  consent  and  amendment  of  the  Articles  of  Asso- 
ciation are  the  true  and  correct  signatures  of  said  shareholders 
or  of  their  lawfully -appointed  attorneys;  and  that  one  of  the 
instruments  so  executed  is  the  foregoing,  and  that  the  other,  in 
all  respects  like  the  foregoing,  is  on  file  in  said  bank. 

I  further  certify  that  the  said  amendment  to  the  Articles  of 
Association  of  "The ,"  was  duly  recorded  upon  the  minute- 
book  of  said  Association  on  the day  of ,  19 — ,  and  that 

the  above  certificate  was  certified  under  the  seal  of  the  Asso- 
ciation in  accordance  with  a  resolution  of  its  Board  of  Directors, 

duly  adopted  at  a  meeting  of  said  directors  on  the day  of 

.  19—. 


Seal  of 
Bank 


President  or  Cashier. 

224 


and  Documents 


XLIII. 
EXTENSION  OF  CHARTER 


No. 


TREASURY  DEPARTMENT 

Office  of  Comptroller  of  the  Currency. 

Washington, ,  19 — 

Whereas,  by  satisfactory  evidence  presented  to  the  under- 
signed it  has  been  made  to  appear  that  The  in  the  

of in  the  County  of and  State  of has  complied 

with  all  the  provisions  of  the  "Act  of  Congress  to  enable  National 
Banking  Associations  to  extend  their  corporate  existence  and 
for  other  purposes,"  approved  July  12th,  1882. 

Now,  therefore,  I,  — —  Comptroller  of  the  Currency,  do 

hereby  certify  that  The located  in  the of in  the 

County  of and  State  of is  authorized  to  have  succes- 
sion for  the  period  specified  in  its  amended  Articles  of  Associa- 
tion, namely,  until  close  of  business  on '-. 

In  Testimony  Whereof,  witness  my  hand  and 
Seal  of  office  this day  of 19 — . 


Comptroller  of  the  Currency. 

(Charter  No. 

Extension  No.  ) 


22.' 


Official  Forms 


XLIV. 

EXTENSION  OF  CHARTER 

ORDER  FOR  PLATES  AND  CIRCULATION 

Charter  No.  . 

National Bank  of 


19— 

To  THE  Comptroller  of  the  Currency. 

Sir:  As  the  corporate  existence  of  this  bank  is  to  be  legally 
extended  for  twenty  years,  you  are  requested  to  have  new  plates 
engraved,  the  cost  to  be  paid  upon  demand,  and  circulating  notes 
printed  therefrom  as  follows: 


Cost  of 
Plates. 

No.  of 

Sheets 

Ordered. 

Denominations  on  Sheets. 

Value 

Per 
Sheet. 

Amount  of 
Circula- 
tion. 

$75 

$20 
50 
40 

150 

$ 

75 
75 
50 

$10,  $10,  $10,  $20 

$10,  $10,  $10,  $10 

$50,  $100 

Total   

$ 

Respectfully, 


Cashier. 


and  Documents 


XLV. 

RE-EXTENSION  OF  CORPORATE 
EXISTENCE 

RE-EXTENSION  OF  CHARTER 

TREASURY  DEPARTMENT 

Office  of  Comptroller  of  the  Currency. 

Washington,  D.  C, ,  19—. 

Whereas,  by  satisfactory  evidence   presented  to  the  under- 
signed, it  has  been  made  to  appear  that  The ,  located  in  the 

of in  the  County  of and  State  of has  com- 
plied with  all  the  provisions  of  the  Act  of  Congress  "to  enable 
National  Banking  Associations  to  extend  their  corporate  exist- 
ence, and  for  other  purposes,"  approved  July  12,  1882,  as 
amended  by  the  Act,  approved  April  12,  1902; 

Now,  therefore,  I,  Comptroller  of  the  Currency,  do 

hereby  certify  that  The ,  located  in  the  — ; —  of in  the 

County  of and  State  of is  authorized  to  have  succession 

for  the  period  specified  in  its  amended  Articles  of  Association, 

namely,  until  close  of  business  on . 

In  Testimony  Whereof,  witness  my  hand  and 
Seal  of  oflSce  this  day  of  19 — . 


Comptroller  of  the  Currency, 
Charter  No.  .  Extension  No. . 


227 


Official  Forms 


XLVI. 
CERTIFICATE    OF    EXPIRATION    OF    CORPORATE 

EXISTENCE 
NATIONAL BANK 

To  THE  Comptroller  of  the  Currency, 

Washington. 

Sir:  It  is  hereby  certified  that  the  corporate  existence  of , 

located  at  ,  in  the  State  of  ,  having  expired  at  close  of 

business  on  the day  of , ,  the  bank  is  now  closing  its 

aflfairs  under  the  provisions  of  Section  7  of  the  Act  of  July  12, 1882. 

In  Testimony  Whereof,  I  have,  by  instruction  of  the  Board 
of  Directors  of  said  Association,  hereto  subscribed  my  name  and 

aflSxed  the  seal  of  said  Association  at  ,  aforesaid,  the  day 

and  year  above  written. 


Seal  of 
Bank. 


President  or  Cashier. 
NOTICE 

The National Bank ,  located  at ,  in  the 

State  of  ,  is  closing  up  its  affairs  its  corporate  existence 

having  expired  at  close  of  business  on  the day  of , . 

All  note  holders  and  others,  creditors  of  said  Association,  are 
therefore  hereby  notified  to  present  the  notes  and  other  claims 
against  the  Association  for  payment. 


j)j^lg(j ^ President  or  Cashier. 

Note. — The  foregoing  notice  to  be  published  for  a  period  of  two 
months  in  a  newspaper  in  the  City  of  New  York,  and  also  in  a  newspaper 

Sublished  in  the  place  in  which  the  bank  is  located.  (See  Section  52(21 
Revised  Statutes.)  Certificates  of  the  publishers  that  the  required  pub- 
lication has  been  made,  together  with  a  slip  containing  notice  from  one 
issue  of  each  paper,  should  be  sent  to  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency. 

228 


and  Documents 


XLVII. 

CHANGES   IN    CAPITAL   STOCK 

RESOLUTION  TO  INCREASE  CAPITAL  STOCK 


No. 


(Date.) 


At  a  meeting  of  the  shareholders  of  The National 

Bank  of ,  held  on ,  thirty  days'  notice  of  the  proposed 

business  having  been  given,  it  was 

Resolved,  That,  under  the  provisions  of  the  Act  of  May  1, 
1886,  the  capital  stock  of  this  Association  be  increased  in  the  sum 
of  $ ,  making  the  total  capital  $ . 

The  foregoing  resolution  was  adopted  by  the  following  vote, 
representing  more  than  two-thirds  of  the  capital  stock  of  the 
Association,  no  director,  other  officer  or  employe  having  acted 
as  proxy: 


Name  of  Shareholder. 


Residence. 


Name  of  Proxy 


No.of  Shares 


Total  number  of  shares  voted  in  favor  of  tlie  resolution . 
Total  number  of  shares  voted  a<]fainst  the  resolution . . .  . 

Total  numljer  of  shares  represented  at  the  meeting 

Total  number  of  shares  of  capital  stock 


229 


Official  Forms 


I  hereby  certify  tlial  this  is  a  true  and  correct  report  of  the 
vote  and  of  the  resolution  adopted  at  a  meeting  of  the  share- 
holders of  this  bank  held  on  the  date  mentioned. 


Seal  of 
Bank. 


President  or  Cashier, 


Subscribed  and  sworn  to  before  me  this  day  of 

A.D.  . 


Seal  of 
Notary. 


Notary  Public. 


230 


and  Documents 


XLVIII. 
CERTIFICATE  OF  INCREASE   OF   CAPITAL   STOCK 

No. . 


National Bank  of 


To  THE  Comptroller  of  the  Currency, 

Washington,  D.  C. 
It    is    hereby  certified   that  the  capital  stock   of Na- 
tional    Bank  of   has  been  increased,  pursuant  to  the 

provisions  of  the  Act  of  Congress  approved  May  1,  1886,  in  the 

sum  of dollars,  all  of  which  has  been  paid  in  cash,  not  in 

promissory  notes  or  other  like  evidence  of  debt,  and  that  the 
paid-up  capital  stock  of  the  bank  now  amounts  to dollars. 


Seal  of 
Bank. 


President  or  Cashier. 


State  of_ 


County  of I 

Subscribed  and  sworn  to  before  me,  this  day  of 

A.D.  19 


Seal  of 
Notary. 


Notary  Public. 


231 


Official  Forms 


XLIX. 
RESOLUTION  TO  REDUCE  CAPITAL  STOCK 


No. 


The 


National 


Bank  of 


(Date.) , . 

At  a  meeting  of  the  shareholders  of  The National 

Bank  of ,  held  on ,  thirty  days'  notice  of  the  proposed 

business  having  been  given,  at  which  shareholders  were  present 
representing shares  of  stock  of  this  association,  it  was 

Resolved,  That,  under  the  provisions  of  Section  5143,  U.  S. 
Revised  Statutes,  and  of  the  law  amendatory  thereof,  the  capital 

stock  of  this  Association  be  reduced  in  the  sum  of  $ ,  leaving 

the  total  capital  after  said  reduction  $ . 

The  foregoing  resolution  was  adopted  by  the  following  vote, 
representing  more  than  two-thirds  of  the  capital  stock  of  the 
Association,  no  director,  other  officer  or  employe  having  acted  as 
proxy : 


Name  of  Shareholder. 

Residence. 

Name  of  Proxy. 

No.  of  Shares. 



Total  number  of  shares  voted  in  favor  of  the  resolution . 
Total  number  of  shares  voted  against  the  resolution .... 

Total  number  of  shares  represented  at  the  meeting 

Total  number  of  shares  of  capital  stock 

232 


and  Documents 


I  hereby  certify  that  the  foregoing  is  a  true  and  correct  re- 
port of  the  vote  and  of  the  resolution  adopted  at  a  meeting  of  the 
shareholders  of  this  bank,  held  on 


Seal  of 
Bank. 


President  or  Cashier. 


Subscribed  and  sworn  to  before  me  this 


day  of 


Official  Seal 
of  Officer. 


Notary  Public. 


233 


Official  Forms 


CHANGE  OF  NAME,  ETC. 

CERTIFICATE  RELATIVE  TO  CHANGE  OF  TITLE  OF 
AN  ASSOCIATION 

Bank  No. . 

(Date) 

At  a  meeting  of  the  shareholders  of  the National 

Bank  of held  on ,  thirty  days'  notice  of  the  proposed 

business  having  been  given,  it  was 

Resolved,  That,  under  the  provisions  of  the  Act  of  May  1, 

1886,  the  corporate  name  of is  hereby  changed  to . 

The  above  resolution  was  adopted  by  the  following  vote,  rep- 
resenting more  than  two-thirds  of  the  capital  stock  of  the  Asso- 
ciation, no  director,  other  ojfficer  or  employe  having  acted  as 
proxy: 


Name  of  Shareholder. 

Residence. 

Name  of  Proxy. 

No.  of  Shares. 

234 


and  Documents 


AGAINST  RESOLUTION 


Name  of  Shareholder. 

Residence. 

Name  of  Proxy. 

No.  of  Shares. 

Total  number  of  shares  voted  in  favor  of  the  resolution . 
Total  nimaber  of  shares  voted  against  the  resolution .... 
Total  number  of  shares  represented  at  the  meeting  .... 
Total  number  of  shares  of  capital  stock  of  bank 

I  hereby  certify  that  the  foregoing  is  a  true  and  correct  report 
of  the  vote  and  of  the  resolution  adopted  at  a  meeting  of  the  share- 
holders of  this  bank  held  on  the  date  mentioned. 


Seal  of 
Bank. 


President  or  Cashier. 


535 


Official  Forms 


LI. 

LIQUIDATION 

RESOLUTION  FOR  VOLUNTARY  LIQUIDATION 

No. . 

At  a  meeting  of  the  shareholders  of  The National  — 


Bank  of 


located  at 


held  on 


thirty  days'  notice 


of  the  proposed  business  having  been  given,  it  was 

Resolved,   That, be 

placed  in  voluntary  liquidation,  under  the  provisions  of  Sections 
5220  and  5221,  United  States  Revised  Statutes,  to  take  effect 


The  foregoing  resolution  was  adopted  by  the  following  vote 
representing  at  least  two-thirds  of  the  capital  stock  of  the  Asso- 
ciation, no  director,  other  officer  or  employe  having  acted  as 
proxy: 


Name  of  Shareholder. 

Residence. 

Name  of  Proxy. 

No.  of  Shares. 

Total  number  of  shares 
Total  number  of  shares 
Total  number  of  shares 
Total  number  of  shares 
Total  number  of  shares 

voted  in  favor  of  the  resolution . 
voted  against  the  resolution .... 

represented  at  the  meeting 

not  represented  at  the  meeting . . 
of  capital  stock 

I  hereby  certify  under  authority  of  the  Board  of  Directors 
that  the  foregoing  is  a  true  and  correct  report  of  the  vote  and  of 


236 


and  Documents 


the  resolution  adopted  at  a  meeting  of  the  shareholders  of  this 
bank  held  on . 


Seal  of 
Bank. 


President  or  Cashier. 
Subscribed  and  sworn  to  before  me  this  day  of  , 


Seal  of 
Notary 


Notary  Public. 

LII. 

NOTICE 

Bank  

-,  located  at ,  in 

The National 

State  of ,  is  closing  its  affairs.       All  note  holders  and  other 


creditors  of  the  Association  are  therefore  hereby  notified  to  pre- 
sent the  notes  and  other  claims  for  payment. 


President  or  Cashier. 


Dated 


I'd- 


237 


Official  Forms  and  Doctnnents. 


LIII. 
OATH  OF  PUBLICATION 


State  of 


County   of 

Cut  the  printed  notice  from  the  news- 
paper and  attach  here. 


Forward  notice  to  Comptroller  of  Cur- 
rency as  promptly  as  possible. 


being  duly  sworn,  deposes 
and  says  that  he  is  the  pub- 
lisher of a news- 
paper published  in  the 

of  — ^ — ,   County   of  , 


State  of ,  and  that  the 

annexed  advertisement  of 
the  notice  of  voluntary 
liquidation     of     the     


National  Bank  of 


has 


appeared  in  each  issue  of 
said  paper  for  a  period  of 
at  least  sixty  days,  begin- 
ning the  day  of  


and   ending   the 
of  ,  19—. 


day 


Subscribed  and  sworn  to  before  me,  a  - 
State  and  County  aforesaid,  this day  of 


in  and  for  the 
19—. 


Seal  of 
Officer. 


238 


Index 

A 

Acts  op  p^^^ 

March  3,  1809 75 

July  4,  1840     . 76 

August  16,  1846     , 76 

June  20,  1874 62 

July  12,  1882 45,  121 

March  14,  1900 v 

April  12,  1902 121 

March  4,  1907 45,  77,  86 

May  30,  1908 45,  58,  78 

December  18,  1909 86 

National  Bank  Act .'....  125 

Application  to  the  Comptroller. 

For  organization 1 

For  conversion 18 

For  authority  to  substitute  bonds 27 

For  appointment  reserve  agent 74 

For  extension 113 

For  re-extension 119 

Appropriations  for  Public  Buildings 84 

Articles  of  Association 4 

Amendment 114,  119 

239 


Index 


Page 

Assets,  Prohibited 17-18 

Assignees,  Stock  Listed  in  Name  of 5 


B 

Bank  of  North  America 75 

Bank  Reserves. 

Against  circulation 34,  66 

Defined 66 

May  consist  of 66,  67 

Method  of  computing 69 

Required  amount 72,  73 

When  fund  falls  below  required  amount    ....  74 

Bills  of  Exchange. 

When  reserve  is  below  legal  limit 74 

Bonds. 

Issues  available  for  circulation 29 

Issues  available  for  deposits 78,  86,  88 

Interest  on 28 

Non-taxable 43 

Sale  of,  to  redeem  circulation 27 

Sale  of,  to  retire  circulation 45 

Substitution  of  issues 27 

Treasurer's  receipt  for 28 

Withdrawal  of 89 

340 


Index 

Bonds,  Charter.  _ 

'  Page 

Issuance  of  circulation  against 26 

Must  be  in  registered  form 26 

Required  amount 10 

C 

Capital. 

Increasing 124 

New  certificates  of  stock 126 

Of  private  bank  reorganizing 21 

Of  state  bank  converting 19 

Ratio  to  population  of  town 3 

Reducing 125 

Certificate. 

Clearing-house 67 

Covering  public  deposits 79 

Of  amendment  of  articles  of  association  '   .      .      .      .  115 

Of  authority  (charter) 11 

Of  bond  examination 46 

Of  deposit  covering  deposits  for  redemption  fund   .      35,  36 

Of  extension 115 

Of  new  stock  in  conversion 20 

Of  organization 5,  19 

Of  payment  of  capital 8 

Of  payment  of  circulation  tax 43 

Of  publication  of  notice 131 

Of  publication  of  official  report 105 

Of  re-extension  of  charter 120 

Of  temporary  stock 9 

241 


Index 

Page 

Change  of  name  or  Location 127,  128 

Charter 11 

Circulation. 

Additional 58-65 

Assessment  in  case  of  withdrawal  of 45 

Blank  for  ordering 26 

Failure  to  pay  semi-annual  tax 28 

Issues  available  for 29 

National  bank  note 25 

New  circulation  under  extension 116 

New  circulation  under  re-extension 120 

Order  for 30,  31 

Redemption  fund 34 

Semi-annual  report  on 108 

Withdrawal  of 44 

Clearing-house  Certificates 67 

Collections 149 

Collectors. 

Deposits  by 78 

Returns  of  net  mcome  to 109,  110 

Consolidation. 

By  increase  of  capital 22,  23 

By  voluntary  liquidation 24 

Without  increase  of  capital 22 

Contract. 

For  assuming  liabilities 24 

For  purchase  of  assets 24 

242 


Index 

Page 

Conversion  of  State  Banks    .......      .17-20 

Corporate  Existence. 

Extension 113-118 

Re-extension 119-120 

Corporation  Excise  Tax 109,110 

Correspondent. 

New  York 145-159 

Court  and  Post  Office  Funds 84 

Counter-entries  in  Deposit  Accounts 80 

Country  Banks. 

Defined 73 

Formation  of 59 

Reserve  required 73 

Currency  Associations. 

Deposit  of  securities  with QO 

Formation  of 59 

Membership  in 59 

D 

Denomination  of  Notes  on  Plates 29 

Proportion  in  circulation  order 30 

Depositaries,  Deposits  in 79,83 

Directors. 

Disqualifications 13 

Oath 6 

243 


Index 

Directors — Continued.  "** 

Qualifications 13 

Stockholdings  required 13 

Term  of  office 13 

Disbursing  Officers'  Accounts 84,  85 

District  of  Columbia. 

Tax  deposits 87 

Dividends 124,  144 

Report  of 106 

Documents  and  Forms 161-238 

E 

Elections. 

Of  directors 6 

Of  officers 7 

Emergency  Circulation  (Act  of  1908)      ....       58-65 

Endorsements  of  Application  to  Organize     .      .      .  1  21 

Enforcing  Payment  of  Capital 15 

Examinations. 

Of  bonds 46 

Prior  to  issuance  of  charter 3 

Semi-annual 108 

Upon  extension 115 

Excess  Deposits 79 

Excise  Tax  Law 43,  109,  110 

244 


Index 

Page 

Execution  of  Articles  of  Association  .     .     .     .        5,  17 

Of  organization  certificate 5,  17 

Expiration  of  Corporate  Existence 121 

Extension  of  Corporate  Existence       ....   113-119 

F 

Forms  and  Documents 161-238 

G 

Government  Appropriations  for  Public  Buildings  .  84 

Government  Depositaries        75-83 

Classes  of 77 

Permanent 78 

Securities  acceptable 88 

Temporary 82 

Use  of 83 

I 

Independent  Treasury  System 76 

Instalments. 

PajTQent  of  capital  stock  in 9 

Interest. 

Included  when  computing  corporation  excise  tax  44 

On  bonds  deposited 28 

On  court  and  post-oflRce  funds 84 

On  money  in  government  depositaries 81 

245 


Index 


L 

Page 
Letters  of  Credit 158 

Liquidation 17,  24,  107,  130,  133 


M 

Miscellaneous  Deposits 80 

Mutilated  Currency. 

Destruction  of 38-39 

N 

National  Bank  Note  Circulation 25 

National  Bank  Redemption  Agency 37 

National  Bank  Reserve 36,  66 

National  City  Bank  Organized 150 

Converted  to  National  Association 150 

National  Currency  Association 58,  65 

National  Debt,  Refunding  of v 

National  Monetary  Commission 58 

Net  Deposits 68 

New  York  Correspondent 145 

Non-taxable  Notes  and  Bonds 43 

Notice  of  Approval  by  Comptroller 3,  4 

246 


Index 

Page 

Notes,  National  Bank 25 

Cancellation  without  re-issue 45 

Charges  for  redemption 39 

Denominations 29 

Failure  to  redeem 27,  28 

Issue  of  new  notes  on  extension 115 

Non-taxable 43 

Of  other  national  banks 28 

On  re-extension 120 

Original  order  for 31 

Presented  for  redemption 37 

Proportion  of  denominations 30 

Sheets  of 30 

Shipping  and  expense  of 32 

Signatures  on 32 

Without  signatures 33 

O 

Oath. 

Of  directors 6 

Of  publication 12 

Official  Reports 104,  108 

Organization. 

Detailed  steps 1,  11 

P 

Payment,  Capital 8,  18,  19,  21,  23 

Method  of  enforcing 15 

247 


Index 


Page 
Plate3  for  Circulation 29 

Profits. 

On  circulation 47-59 

On  deposits 90-103 

Promissory  Notes 8 

Commercial  paper 60 

R 

Receipts  for  Bonds 25 

Filing 28 

Reciprocal  Accounts  with  Reserve  Agents   ...       70 

Redemption  Fund 34-39 

Reduction  of  Capital 125,  126 

Re-extension  of  Corporate  Existence       .     .     .   119-120 

Refunding  Excess  Tax 44 

Remittances. 

For  redemption  fund 34 

Reorganization. 

Of  private  banks 21 

Of  state  banks 17,  18 

Reports,  Officlal 104 

248 


Index 

Page 

Reserve. 

Agents 70,  7-i 

Definition  of 66 

Required 72,  73 

Reserve  Banks 73 

Reserve  Cities 71,  72 

Central  reserve 71 

Resolution. 

Directors 28,  120 

To  increase  capital  stock 123 

To  reduce  capital  stock 125 

Restrictions 134-144 

RiGGS  National  Bank    .......     32,  38,  46 

S 
Seal  of  Bank 7 

Securities. 

To  obtain  additional  circulation 60 

To  obtain  charter 9,  20 

To  obtain  circulation 26 

To  obtain  government  deposits 78 

Shares  op  Capital  Stock 8,  20 

Shareholders. 

Meeting  of 6,  HI 

Notice  of  meeting  and  proceedings Ill 

Right  to  participate  in  meeting 28 

249 


Index 

Pace 

Signatures. 

Of  officers 8 

On  circulation 32,  33 

To  application  to  organize 1 

To  articles 4 

To  certificates  of  payment  of  capital 8 

To  directors'  notes 8 

To  oaths 6 

To  organization  certificate 5 

Statements. 

Of  condition 104 

Of  depositary  accounts 79-81 

Stock. 

Enforcing  payment  under  subscription  to  ...      .  15 

Placing,  under  consolidation 24 

Sale  of 15 

Subscription  to 8 

Voting 13 

Stockholders. 

Failure  to  pay  instalment 15 

Liability  for  subscriptions 14 

Votes  of 13,  14 

Surrender  of  notes  for  Cancellation       ....  45 

T 

Tax  on  Circulation .  40 

Bank  circulation  not  subject  to  state  or  municipal     .  43 

250 


Index 


; psire 

Tax  on  Circulation — Continued. 

Computing 41 

Depositing 42 

Excessive 44 

Failure  to  pay 28 

U 

United  States  Bank 75 

V 

Voluntary  Liquidation. 

Of  national  bank 24,  130 

Of  state  bank 17 

Voting. 

By  proxy * 13 

Cumulative 14 

OflBcer  or  employee  may  not  act  as  proxy        ...  14 

W 

Waiving  Right  to  Participate 23 

Warrants 81 

Washington  Correspondent 155 

Withdrawal. 

Of  circulation 44 

Of  government  deposits 89 

251 


Rogers  &  Company 
Chicago  and  New  York 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 

Los  Angeles 

This  book  is  DUE  on  the  last  date  stamped  below. 


•JAN  2 1 1985 


Form  L9-Series  4939 


58  01270  9407 

HG 

N21n 
1910 


UC  SOUTHERN  RF'^"  ir„,Ai  i  iRRARY  FACILITY 


AA    001  028  452    9 


