TRAVELERS* AID SOCIETY 

OF SAN DIEGO 
FIRST ANNUAL REPORT 

FOR THE YEAR ENDING 

DECEMBER THIRTY-FIRST 
NINETEEN HUNDRED AND FIFTEEN 



—FOR MORAL PROTECTION— 



207 Titnken Building 
Telephone connection San Dlego, California 



PROTECTION FROM DANGER AND 
PREVENTION OF CRIME FOR 
TRAVELERS, ESPECIALLY YOUNG 
WOMEN, GIRLS AND BOYS 
TRAVELING ALONE. 



Packard'f^S^ Printer 



REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT AT THE ANNUAL MEETING 
OF THE SOCIETY, JANUARY 4, 1916 



San Diego Travelers' Aid Society during 1915 has been fully organized 
and developed; a corps of agents trained to meet the need; daily indi- 
vidual and weekly group conferences of the agents held; cooperation 
widely and firmly established; a system of case reports installed; ex- 
tensive social service follow-up work done; housing investigations made; 
an educational and publicity campaign carried on; office equipped; sta- 
tion Travelers' Aid Society Rest Room furnished; |3,l£fersons assisted; 
and general endorsement and public recognition of the work obtained. 

The San Diego Society has established and maintained during 1915 
among the Travelers' Aid Societies in America: First place for minimum 
per capita expense for field work; first place for maximum number of 
persons assisted per agent; second place for the percentage of case 
records filed for total persons assisted; and is only surpassed in the 
number of persons assisted by the Societies of San Francisco, New York 
and Philadelphia. 

Through the generosity of Miss Ellen B. Scripps, we were able to 
place at the head of our work a trained and experienced leader, Mr. 
Horace R. Baker, formerly Assistant Secretary of the Travelers' Aid 
Society of New York, who has efficiently and successfully handled the 
large work that rapidly developed. 

Of the success of the work there can be no question. At all times 
it has been conducted with the utmost economy. Unusual efforts have 
been necessary in the financial depression and intensified problems of 
Exposition year to secure the funds necessary for the support of the 
work. No expense has been incurred which could not be met. 

A significant phase of the work has been the large number of young 
women and girls traveling alone who were assisted. The importance of 
the work for the San Diego girl, as well as the stranger, is emphasized. 

Appreciative acknowledgment of cooperation is made to: Travelers' 
Aid Societies throughout America, especially the New Y'ork Society; the 
National Board of the Y. W. C. A.; the local Y. W. C. A.; the charitable 
and social organizations in the city; the Homes which have handled cases 
with the Society; officials and employees of the Santa Fe railroad for un- 
failing courtesy; and to contributors and friends who have supported the 
work. 

As the work is entirely dependent upon contributions and member- 
ships for its support, you are urged to renew your former contribution 
and if possible send an increase. If you have not already contributed, 
will you not place this work, which is urgently in need of funds, upon the 
list of your benevolences? 

F. R. BURNHAM, President. 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 



DEFINITION AND SCOPE OF TRAVELERS' AID SOCIETY 

The Travelers' Aid Society of San Diego is a permanent, non-political, 
non-sectarian protective organization, incorporated under the laws of the 
State of California, to safeguard travelers. Because of social conditions, 
the dangers of city life, and the opportunities afforded agents of vice in 
the course of travel, the Society investigates the varied inducements that 
cause persons to leave their homes, including questionable influences such 
as deceptive letters, advertisements and offered positions, also dangerous 
addresses, acquaintances, etc.; protects and aids travelers, especially 
girls, women and boys, in all the emergencies of travel until they arrive 
at their proper destinations; assists travelers, when necessary, to re- 
spectable and suitable lodging houses, responsible institutions or back to 
their own homes; places the names of strangers with the organizations 
which will best develop them socially, mentally and religiously in the 
community. This work is done without regard to age, race, creed, class 
or sex and without fee or gratuity. 

THE NEED FOR SAN DIEGO TRAVELERS' AID SOCIETY 

In the strange emergencies of travel and arrival, travelers, especially 
young women, girls and boys, are often in grave moral danger. Among 
the thousands of persons traveling, there are many entirely unprepared 
to cope with the sudden crisis and the subtle temptation, and whom 
the unscrupulous find easy to ensnare. 

*Wrong addresses, no address, disreputable addresses, lost friends lost 
tickets or passes, lost directions or money, falsely advertised and danger- 
ous positions, urgent need of employment, ignorance of language and 
customs, sudden and alluring temptations, professed offers of friendship 
or assistance in the travel emergency— these are but a few of the 
ever-recurring difficulties when there is need of Travelers' Aid 
Society to assist and prevent the false step which would make rescue 
necessary. *Other emergencies equally fraught with danger and of daily 
occurrence are: Not being met as expected, arriving late at night and 
havmg to go alone to distant and unfamiliar parts of the city illness 
infirmity, indifference, over-confidence, timidity, bewilderment, loneliness' 
need of reliable information, friendship, advice and guidance, missed 
connections, need of very cheap yet reliable lodgings, expenses greater 
than counted upon and money gone, defrauded, desertion and destitution 
-all these are illustrative of the exigencies which prompt those in need 
and alone to ask advice and guidance from chance passers-by and casual 
acquaintances. 

Travelers' Aid Society prevents error and crime, shields the ignorant 
and innocent from temptations vicious and subtle, prevents the tricking 
coercing and exploiting of the inexperienced and helpless, and returns the 
runaway girl or boy to the mother without publicity; it conserves, rather 
than rescues. 



* All the emergencies enumerated occurred repeatedly in the San 
Diego Society work. 



TRAVELERS' AID SOCIETY AT WORK 

When steamers dock or trains arrive or leave. Travelers' Aid Society 
women agents wearing the official badge are to be found ready to pro- 
vide information, advice, guidance, protection and aid to all in need. 
The Society's agents are carefully trained to handle the person in need 
tactfully, quietly and efficiently. A person assisted is never left with the 
assistance incomplete, however long the case may require. The work 
begun at the terminal is followed up by social service throughout the 
city. Where the traveler goes to another city, the protection of the San 
Diego Society is continued and completed by cooperation with other 
Societies or our representatives at terminal points throughout America. 
When necessary the Society provides temporarily for the traveler through 
an investigated list of homes, institutions, lodgings, etc. 

A system of records is kept of every person to whom any definite 
assistance has been given or for whom any investigation has been made. 
The Society keeps in touch with each person aided either by visitation, 
correspondence or through a cooperating Society or representative in 
another city, in so far as the case requires. These records are not made 
public. They give name, age, nationality, home address, destination, why 
helped, assistance given, final disposition, social service and other facts. 
Incidental services are only numerically recorded. The thousands of 
records on file for persons assisted in San Diego during 1915 are indis- 
putable evidence of the work. 



TRAVELERS' AID SOCIETY COOPERATION 

The Society works with the approval and cooperation of the Trans- 
portation Companies, supplementing their protection and covering a field 
which they cannot and do not cover and for which they are not organized. 
Travelers' Aid Society bridges the gap between the physical safety of 
life and limb and the moral safety of the traveler until arrival at proper 
destination. 

The Society, through the courtesy of the enlarged cooperative lists 
of the New York Society, has an already existing cooperation extending 
to almost every village and town in the country — a cooperation ever 
increasing and ever-active, rural, inter-city, inter-state and inter-national 
in scope. 

The Society is necessarily a clearing house for many organizations 
in moral and humanitarian work. The cooperation of the Homes and 
charitable organizations in liandling cases and completing the assistance 
needed is acknowledged with appreciation. 



TRAVELERS' AID SOCIETY FINANCE 

Travelers' Aid Society is supported entirely by voluntary contribu- 
tions and subscriptions from persons and organizations who believe in 
moral protection and preventive work before there is need of rescue. 
The increased travel and intensified problems due to the Expositions, 
brought thousands of persons to San Diego who needed the protection and 
assistance of the Society. 

The continuance of the Exposition during 1916, increasing normal 
travel, will again increase the demands made upon the Society. Because 
the Society is daily giving protection and assistance to so many, it needs 
the aid and financial backing of many friends. The character of the 
services rendered to individuals and to society at large justifies asking 
for your financial and moral support. It is your work — it urgently requires 
your interest and support. Will you help by sending a contribution which 
will be promptly and appreciatively acknowledged with numbered receipt. 



CONDENSED STATISTICAL REPORT 1915 

Stations Docks Miscellaneous Total 

Persons definitely assisted and 6263 276 73 6612 
case records filed 

Persons incidentally assisted and case records not obtainable 7154 

Total persons assisted during 1915 13,766 



COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF PERSONS ASSISTED 



January 


■^February 


March 


April 


May 


June 


202 


254 


618 


978 


1205 


1449 


July 


August 


Sept. 


Oct. 


Nov. 


Dec. 


2255 


1986 


1393 


1028 


1392 


1006 



LOCATIONS OF THE WORK 

Santa Fe railroad station and Travelers' Aid Society Rest Room, 
second floor of station; Cuyamaca station by appointment; Santa Fe 
and Fifth Street Wharfs, when steamers dock; other docks by appoint- 
ment; Social Service and housing investigations throughout the city; 
and Executive Office, 207 Timken Building. 

AGENTS OF THE SOCIETY 

^Mr;^Rh^-H"°xl^l^^ Mrs. Mary Pennv 

Respectfully submitted, 

HORACE R. BAKER, Executive Secretary. 
* Work organized by Executive Secretary. 



TRAVELERS' AID SOCIETY TREASURER'S REPORT 
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31st, 1915 

"^Receipts Disbursements 

Provisional Committee of the Agents and case expenses $2231.68 

Board of Directors $ 16.25 Pernianent Equipment 199.54 

Printing, Postage and 

Special Donations 540.00 stationery 181.80 

Returned Advances 60 Telegraph and Telephone. .. 120.62 

Interest on Deposits 2.67 Grant Hotel Meeting 77.50 

Contributions and Badges Signs, Advertising 

and Exhibit 40.40 

Memberships 2347.11 cleaning Rest Room, Sun- 

dries and Phone Deposit 41.92 

Total 12893.46 

Balance on hand 13.17 

^^^"^•^^ ^906^63 



* Salary of Executive Secretary not included in the Treasurer's 
report as it was paid direct by Miss Ellen B. Scripps. 

Note. — Credits and supplies not in money have been received to the 
value of $553. 

Signed: MILTON EPSTEIN, 

Acting Treasurer. 



SAN DIEGO TRAVELERS' AID SOCIETY CASES 



THREE THOUSAND MILES ALONE 

iRefusing to listen to counsel, a mother insisted on sending her four 
and a half year-old baby boy three thousand miles alone, without a berth 
and with scarcely any money. Wearing his first suit, of which he was 
very proud, provided with a large basket of lunch and an old coat of the 
mother's for covering, the child left in care of the Society. A tele- 
gram from Societies and representatives in I^os Angeles, San Fran- 
cisco, Portland and Spokane kept the San Diego Society informed of his 
safe conduct until his final arrival In Montana. 



STRANDED FAR FROM HOME 

A young girl, thousands of miles from home, alone and secretly dis- 
tressed was met by the Society and daily called upon through Its social 
service. Unwilling to communicate to her father that she had been ex- 
travagant, she had suffered in silence until her board bill, two weeks 
overdue, compelled her to acknowledge the difficulty. A cooperating So- 
ciety quickly informed us that her mall had been misdirected, and mean- 
time a telegram to her father, brought the needed remittance immediately. 

AN IMMIGRANT FAMILY 

With two tiny babies, not met by her friends, able to speak but little 
English, her address in a distant part of the city, and with two heavy suit 
cases, a young mother was profusely grateful when taken to her friends. 

MORE THAN 90 YEARS OF AGE 

Feeble, irresponsible, coming to the station from Coronado, an old 
lady was noticed about the station by one of the officials, who referred her 
to the Society. Patiently waiting with her while she rested, gently ques- 
tioning her where she lived, for she had forgotten, almost carrying her, 
she was taken home. 



MORAL PROTECTION 

A fifteen-year-old girl ready for high school came in alone expecting 
to be met by her relatives. While waiting for the car for Loma Portal the 
girl even while in the company of the agent, was accosted by two men. The 
first said: "Little girl, could I assist you in my car?" The second said: 
"May I conduct you to a clean, perfectly respectable hotel?" (mentioning 
a place of unsavory reputation). Arriving at her home, the child was 
placed in care of her people. 



NATIONAL COOPERATION FOR PROTECTION 



Reading in a New York paper the advertisement of a Los Angeles 
firm agreeing to obtain in the West excellent positions for even the un- 
skilled, a young girl was persuaded by her mother to refer the matter 
for investigation to the New York Travelers' Aid Society prior to leaving 
home for the agency. The San Diego Society on investigating tlie matter 
found that the young girl would have been unsuccessful in obtaining the 
offered employment. Instead of being stranded and alone in a strange 
city, she remains safe at her home. 



INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION 

Returning to Europe with her three babies, a young mother left San 
Diego in care of Travelers Aid Society, and was met and safely cared for 
by Societies and representatives in Los Angeles, New Orleans, Washing- 
ton, New York, Liverpool and London. 



LOCAL COOPERATION ' 

(Arriving in San Diego with a six-weeks-old baby, a young mother — 
ill, alone and penniless, her husband fighting in the European trenches- 
did not know where to turn. Seriously In need of rest and food, mother 
and baby were placed in a co-operating Home. Since then a kindly family 
has taken them for a rest until she is able to earn their living. 



DISREPUTABLE LODGING 

Tired of home life and longing to see the Exposition, three young 
girls ran away from their homes. Falling into the clutches of a runner 
for a disreputable lodging, they were quickly showered with invitations 
to dinner and for auto rides across the border. Travelers' Aid Society, 
learning of the case, telegraphed to the parents and was instructed to 
act for them. Placing the girls temporarily at the Y. W. C. A., tickets 
were purchased and all sent home to their mothers. 

R. F D. ADDRESS 

A young girl arriving unexpectedly one evening was noticed by the 
agent who offered assistance. Waiting an hour to see if her grand- 
mother or uncle would come, the worker went with the girl to the end 
of the car line and there hiring a stage to La Mesa searched in the dark- 
ness for a mailbox along the road. About 9:30 P. M. the house, a half- 
mile from the mailbox, was located. 



SUDDEN ILLNESS 



Taken suddenly ill on her arrival in San Diego, a middle-aged woman 
separated from her friends, was given first aid treatment by the Society 
agent. Making her comfortable in the rest room, the agent 'phoned all 
the hotels in an unsuccessful effort to locate the friends. When the 
woman had sufficiently recovered she was sent safely home in the care 
of the Society. 



A CO-OPERATING HOME 



Believing herself able to find work in an Exposition city, a poor 
woman, ill, her hands mangled from an accident, nervouo and rut of 
employment was found by the Society and placed in a co-operating home 
until able to work. 



LEFT ALONE 

A young school girl came to see the Exposition with friends of her 
mother's. 'Misunderstanding the time of meeting, she missed the train and 
was left behind without sufficient funds to buy food. The Society 
telegraphed her mother that the girl would arrive on the evening train, 
and providing her food, sent her safely home. 



AN EMPLOYMENT CASE 

Sent to disreputable lodging house by an employment agency in 
the city, a young southern woman called upon the Society to ascertain 
the reputation of the place. Under the care of the Society, she went to 
convince herself of the truth of our investigation. 



INEXPERIENCED IN TRAVEL 

Early one Sunday morning two young women arrived in San Diego. 
The letter giving the address of their friends was in tho post office which 
was closed. Placing the girls where the might rest, the agent, through 
the courtesy of the post office, obtained the letter and placed them safely 
on the Cuyamaca train for Foster. 



"YOUNG LADY, COME WITH ME" 



Young, romantic, tired of the squalor of her life, quarreling with her 
parents, and longing to see the world, a young San Diego girl left home 
to run away. When questioned by the agent, she explained that she 
carried no baggage, save a small bundle because she did not wish to 
bother with it; that she was married and was going to her husband, giving 
his name and hers. When she at length boarded the train, the agent as 
a final resort boarded the train and quietly approaching her, said: "Young 
lady, come with me." To her amazement, the girl got up and followed her 
from the train. Pressed to tell the truth, she finally broke down and the 
agent, winning her confidence, took her home. Since then the girl has 
been constantly in touch with the Society. 



A TRAGEDY PREVENTED 

Arriving in San Diego one evening alone, an eighteen-year-old girl, 
having spent all her scanty supply of money in an effort to find work in 
Los Angeles, met on the journey an acquaintance who readily learned 
that she was alone, friendless, hungry, penniless. On the pretext of 
friendly assistance in obtaining her a position, he made an appointment 
with her for the evening. But Travelers' Aid Society was on the alert 
tor young women. The agent preventing the keeping of the appointment, 
took her to a cooperating Home. She was found employment and is 
happy in her new work. 



5:30 A. M. STATION CASE 

Very early one morning two pretty young girls, the oldest eighteen, 
came from the train expecting their friends to meet them. Cars had not 
yet begun running. Their address was incorrest. Investigation at first 
revealed a box number. Each clue proved incorrect, until finally the girls 
were found a lodging where they might rest while the agent continued 
the search. Eventually the friends were located at Old Town. 



A DOCK CASE 

Carrying heavy bundles, the wife wearing the quaint gay clothing of 
the Russian peasant, an old man and his wife came from the boat, the 
picture of despair. Unable to speak English, excitedly talking Russian, 
the Travelers' Aid Society agent found an interpreter and lodging for 
them in a Russian family when they rested before going into Mexico. 



TRAVELERS' AID SOCIETY OF SAN DIEGO 



Executive Office, 207 Timken Building. Kest Room. 2nd Floor Santa Fe 
Station. Teleplione Connection. 



Mr. George W. Marston, President 
Miss Ellen B. Scripps, Vlce-Pres. Rev. W. H. Gelstwelt, Vice-Pres. 
Rev. Father T. N. O'Toole. Vice-Pres. Rev. Charles Barnes, Vlce-Pres. 



Dr. F. R. Burnham, President 

Rabbi Montague N. A. Cohen, Vice-President 

Mr. Milton McRae, Vice-President 

Mrs. Thomas O'Hallaran, Secretary 

Mr. John W. Snyder, Treasurer 

Mr. Milton Epstein, Acting Treasurer 

Horace R. Baker, Executive Secretary 

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 



HONORARY OFFICERS 



OFFICERS 



Dr. F. R. Burnham, Chairman 
♦Mrs. Eva B. Bosworth 

Rabbi Moulague N. A. Cohen 
••Mr. Milton Epstein 

Mrs. Carl A. Johnson 

Mr. Milton McRea 



Mr, Patrick Martin 
Mrs. Philip Morse 



Mr? Tho^iias O'Halaran 
Rev. Father T. N. O'Toole 
Mr. Jolin W. Snyder 
Mr. 'Ernest E. White 



BOARD OF DIRECTORS 



Mr. Jolin S. Ackerman 

Mr. John L. Bacon 

Dr. Charlotte Baker 

Rev. Charles L. Barnes 

Mr. S. M. Bingliam 
•Mrs. Shelton Bissel 
•Mrs. Eva B. Bosworth 

Dr. F. R. Burnham 

Mrs. F. J. Campbell 

Rabbi Montague N. A. Cohen 

Mrs. Montague X. A. Cohen 

Mr. C.^kJl'Tey Davidson 

Mr. Mil. on Epstein 

Mrs. D. F. Glldden 

Rev. \V. H. Geistweit 

Rev. E. F. Hallenbeck 

Mrs. Carl A. Johnson 
•Mrs. F. A. King 
•Mr. C. L. Kirkland 

Miss Alice Klauber 

Miss Alice Lee 



Miss Elizabeth Mannix 
Mr. Patrick Martin 
Mr. George \V. Marston 
Mr. Milton McRea 
Mrs. Philip Morse 
Dr. H. C. Oatman 
Mrs. Thomas O'Hallaran 
Rev. Fatlier T. .V. OToole 
Mrs. I. M Patrick 
Miss Ellen B. Scripps 
•Mrs. Alexander Sharp 
Mr. James P. Smith 
Mrs. Charles E. Spaulding 
Judge W. A. Sloan 




•Mrs. A. P. Stephens 



Rev. I^aura P. TowVsend 
Mrs. Catherine Verlaque 
•Mrs. E. S Van Waggenen 
Mr. Ernest E. White 



•(Res'gned.) 



