-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: keymaster@town.hall.org
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFkwCgYEVQgBAQICAgADSwAwSAJBALeWW4xDV4i7+b6+UyPn5RtObb1cJ7VkACDq
 pKb9/DClgTKIm08lCfoilvi9Wl4SODbR1+1waHhiGmeZO8OdgLUCAwEAAQ==
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 QY+jn7RojN65zBJlPGChHxO0OcFGhvDlqB8kdqqcf7aQ9JoGnvwFA7xZa2efP5tP
 WgdkLTDVW+sIvLX3F9/YpA==

<IMS-DOCUMENT>0000950117-95-000238.txt : 19950629<IMS-HEADER>0000950117-95-000238.hdr.sgml : 19950629
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950117-95-000238
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	S-3
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		4
REFERENCES 429:			033-49417
FILED AS OF DATE:		19950628
SROS:			NONE

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EXXON CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000034088
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PETROLEUM REFINING [2911]
		IRS NUMBER:				135409005
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		S-3
		SEC ACT:		1933 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	033-60677
		FILM NUMBER:		95550331

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 E JOHN CARPENTER FRWY
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75062-2298
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2144441000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 4276
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77210-4276

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	STANDARD OIL CO OF NEW JERSEY
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19721123
</IMS-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>S-3
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>EXXON CORPORATION S-3
<TEXT>


<PAGE>
     AS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION ON JUNE 28, 1995
 
                                                      REGISTRATION NO. 33-
________________________________________________________________________________
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
 
                                    FORM S-3
 
                             REGISTRATION STATEMENT
                                     UNDER
                           THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
                            ------------------------
 
                               EXXON CORPORATION
 
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
                            ------------------------
 
<TABLE>
<S>                                                       <C>
                       NEW JERSEY                                                13-5409005
              (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION                                    (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
           OF INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)                                IDENTIFICATION NO.)
</TABLE>
 
                        225 E. JOHN W. CARPENTER FREEWAY
                                 IRVING, TEXAS
                                   75062-2298
                                 (214) 444-1000
 
              (ADDRESS, INCLUDING ZIP CODE, AND TELEPHONE NUMBER,
       INCLUDING AREA CODE, OF REGISTRANT'S PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)
                            ------------------------
 
                             W.B. COOK, CONTROLLER
                               EXXON CORPORATION
                        225 E. JOHN W. CARPENTER FREEWAY
                                 IRVING, TEXAS
                                   75062-2298
                                 (214) 444-1000
 
           (NAME, ADDRESS, INCLUDING ZIP CODE, AND TELEPHONE NUMBER,
                   INCLUDING AREA CODE, OF AGENT FOR SERVICE)
                            ------------------------
 
     APPROXIMATE  DATE OF  COMMENCEMENT OF PROPOSED  SALE TO PUBLIC:  As soon as
practicable after this Registration Statement becomes effective.
 
     If the only  securities being  registered on  this form  are being  offered
pursuant  to dividend or interest reinvestment plans, please check the following
box.  [ ]
 
     If any of the securities being registered on this form are to be offered on
a delayed or continuous basis pursuant to  Rule 415 under the Securities Act  of
1933, other than securities offered only in connection with dividend or interest
reinvestment plans, check the following box.  [x]
 
     If  this Form  is filed to  register additional securities  for an offering
pursuant to Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act, please check the following box
and list  the  Securities  Act  registration statement  number  of  the  earlier
effective registration statement for the same offering.  [ ]
 
     If  this Form is  a post-effective amendment filed  pursuant to Rule 462(c)
under the Securities Act,  check the following box  and list the Securities  Act
registration  statement number  of the earlier  effective registration statement
for the same offering.  [ ]
 
     If delivery of the prospectus is expected to be made pursuant to Rule  434,
please check the following box.  [ ]
                            ------------------------
 

                        CALCULATION OF REGISTRATION FEE
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                      PROPOSED
                                                                   PROPOSED           MAXIMUM
                                                                   MAXIMUM           AGGREGATE         AMOUNT OF
 TITLE OF EACH CLASS OF SECURITIES TO BE      AMOUNT TO BE      OFFERING PRICE        OFFERING        REGISTRATION
               REGISTERED                      REGISTERED         PER SHARE*           PRICE*             FEE
<S>                                           <C>                <C>                <C>               <C>      
Common Stock, no par value...............      10,000,000         $68.8125           $688,125,000      $ 237,284.48
</TABLE>
 
* Estimated  solely for the purpose of calculating the registration fee pursuant
  to Rule 457(c). Based upon the average of the high and low prices reported  in
  The Wall Street Journal, Southwest Edition, of June 23, 1995, for the June 22,
  1995 trading day.
                            ------------------------
     THE  REGISTRANT HEREBY AMENDS  THIS REGISTRATION STATEMENT  ON SUCH DATE OR
DATES AS MAY BE NECESSARY TO DELAY ITS EFFECTIVE DATE UNTIL THE REGISTRANT SHALL
FILE A  FURTHER  AMENDMENT  WHICH SPECIFICALLY  STATES  THAT  THIS  REGISTRATION
STATEMENT  SHALL THEREAFTER BECOME EFFECTIVE IN  ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 8(a) OF
THE SECURITIES ACT  OF 1933 OR  UNTIL THIS REGISTRATION  STATEMENT SHALL  BECOME
EFFECTIVE  ON SUCH DATE AS THE COMMISSION, ACTING PURSUANT TO SAID SECTION 8(a),
MAY DETERMINE.
     PURSUANT TO  RULE 429,  THE  PROSPECTUS CONTAINED  HEREIN ALSO  RELATES  TO
COMMON STOCK REGISTERED UNDER FORM S-3 REGISTRATION STATEMENT NO. 33-49417.
 
________________________________________________________________________________

<PAGE>
INFORMATION   CONTAINED  HEREIN  IS  SUBJECT   TO  COMPLETION  OR  AMENDMENT.  A
REGISTRATION STATEMENT  RELATING TO  THESE SECURITIES  HAS BEEN  FILED WITH  THE
SECURITIES  AND EXCHANGE  COMMISSION. THESE SECURITIES  MAY NOT BE  SOLD NOR MAY
OFFERS TO BUY BE ACCEPTED PRIOR  TO THE TIME THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT  BECOMES
EFFECTIVE.  THIS  PROSPECTUS  SHALL  NOT  CONSTITUTE AN  OFFER  TO  SELL  OR THE
SOLICITATION OF AN OFFER TO BUY NOR SHALL THERE BE ANY SALE OF THESE  SECURITIES
IN  ANY STATE IN WHICH SUCH OFFER,  SOLICITATION OR SALE WOULD BE UNLAWFUL PRIOR
TO REGISTRATION OR QUALIFICATION UNDER THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY SUCH STATE.
 
                   SUBJECT TO COMPLETION, DATED JUNE 28, 1995
 
PROSPECTUS
 
                           [Exxon CORPORATION LOGO]
 
                         SHAREHOLDER INVESTMENT PROGRAM
 
     Exxon  Corporation   ('Exxon'   or   the   'Corporation')   hereby   offers
participation in its Shareholder Investment Program (the 'Program'). The Program
is  designed  to  provide investors  with  a  convenient and  economical  way to
purchase shares  of  the  Corporation's  Common Stock,  no  par  value  ('Common
Stock'),  and to reinvest all or a portion of their cash dividends in additional
shares of Common Stock. See 'Exxon Corporation Shareholder Investment Program.'
 
Participants in the Program may:
 
   Automatically  reinvest  cash  dividends  on  all  or  a  portion  of   their
   certificated and Program shares.
 
   Invest  by  making optional  cash payments  at any  time up  to a  maximum of
   $100,000 per year.
 
   Deposit share certificates for safekeeping.
 
     Shares of Common  Stock required for  the Program may  be purchased in  the
open  market, in privately negotiated transactions,  or from the Corporation. At
present, it is expected that such shares will be purchased on the New York Stock
Exchange and that the Corporation will  not receive any proceeds therefrom.  The
closing  price of  the Common  Stock on  June 22,  1995, on  the New  York Stock
Exchange consolidated tape,  was  $69  per share.  Shares  will  be credited  to
participant  accounts at the average price per  share of all shares purchased or
sold for participants with respect to the relevant Investment Date.
 
     The Corporation will pay any applicable commissions or fees on  participant
purchases.  In connection with  market purchases, brokerage  commissions paid by
the Corporation on  a participant's behalf  are to be  treated as  distributions
subject to income tax in the same manner as dividends.
 
     The  price of any shares purchased from the Corporation will be the average
of the high  and low sale  prices of Common  Stock as reported  on the New  York
Stock Exchange consolidated tape on the date of purchase.
 
     This  Prospectus relates to  20,000,000 shares of  Common Stock offered for
purchase under the Program, approximately 9,000,000 of which have been purchased
by participants prior to the date hereof.
 
     Shareholders who do not choose to participate in the Program will  continue
to receive cash dividends, as declared, in the usual manner.
 
     Shares  offered under the Program to  persons not presently shareholders of
Exxon are offered through CS First Boston Corporation.
 
THESE SECURITIES HAVE NOT BEEN APPROVED  OR DISAPPROVED BY THE SECURITIES  AND
  EXCHANGE  COMMISSION  OR  ANY  STATE SECURITIES  COMMISSION  NOR  HAS THE
     SECURITIES  AND  EXCHANGE  COMMISSION   OR  ANY  STATE   SECURITIES
        COMMISSION  PASSED  UPON  THE ACCURACY  OR  ADEQUACY  OF THIS
           PROSPECTUS. ANY REPRESENTATION TO THE           CONTRARY
                             IS A CRIMINAL OFFENSE.
 
June   , 1995

<PAGE>
                             AVAILABLE INFORMATION
 
     The  Corporation  is  subject  to  the  informational  requirements  of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the 'Exchange Act') and in accordance therewith
files reports, proxy statements, and  other information with the Securities  and
Exchange  Commission  (the 'Commission').  Such  reports, proxy  statements, and
other information can be inspected and copied at the public reference facilities
maintained by the Commission at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C., and at
the Commission's regional offices at 75 Park Place, New York, New York, and 14th
Floor, 500 West Madison Street, Chicago,  Illinois. Copies of such material  can
also  be obtained from the Public Reference Section of the Commission, 450 Fifth
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549,  at prescribed rates. Such reports,  proxy
statements,  and other information can  also be inspected at  the offices of the
New York Stock Exchange,  Inc., 20 Broad  Street, New York,  New York, on  which
exchange  the Common Stock and certain of the Corporation's other securities are
listed.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     The following  documents  heretofore  filed by  the  Corporation  with  the
Commission are incorporated herein by reference:
 
      1. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994.
 
      2. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1995.
 
      3.  The description  of the  Common Stock  contained in  the Corporation's
Registration Statement on  Form 10 filed  on April  9, 1935, as  amended by  its
Current Report on Form 8-K for the month of May 1970 and its Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1987.
 
     In  addition, all documents  filed by the  Corporation pursuant to Sections
13(a), 13(c), 14, or 15(d)  of the Exchange Act subsequent  to the date of  this
Prospectus,  and  prior  to  the  filing  of  a  post-effective  amendment which
indicates that all securities offered hereby have been sold or which deregisters
all securities then  remaining unsold,  shall be  deemed to  be incorporated  by
reference  in this Prospectus and to be a part hereof from the date of filing of
such documents. Any statement contained in a document incorporated or deemed  to
be incorporated by reference herein shall be deemed to be modified or superseded
for  purposes of this Prospectus to the extent that a statement contained in any
other subsequently filed document which also is or is deemed to be  incorporated
by reference herein modifies or supersedes such statement. Any such statement so
modified or superseded shall not be deemed, except as so modified or superseded,
to constitute part of this Prospectus.
 
     The  Corporation will provide without charge  to each person, including any
beneficial owner, to  whom this Prospectus  is delivered, upon  written or  oral
request  of such person,  a copy of  any or all  of the information incorporated
herein by reference, other than exhibits to such information. Requests should be
addressed to: Exxon  Corporation, Investor  Relations, Post  Office Box  160369,
Irving, Texas 75016-0369 (Telephone (214) 444-1000).
 
                                       2
 
<PAGE>
                EXXON CORPORATION SHAREHOLDER INVESTMENT PROGRAM
 
     The following includes a complete statement of the Program.
 
PURPOSE; OTHER CONSIDERATIONS
 
     The  purpose  of  the  Program  is to  provide  useful  services  for Exxon
shareholders. In particular,  the Program provides  shareholders and others  who
wish to become shareholders with a convenient way to purchase Exxon Common Stock
and to reinvest all or a portion of their cash dividends in additional shares of
Common  Stock.  Nothing  contained  in  this  prospectus  or  in  other  Program
information represents a recommendation by Exxon or anyone else that any  person
buy  or sell Exxon stock. A DECISION TO  UTILIZE THE PROGRAM SHOULD ONLY BE MADE
AFTER AN INVESTOR HAS INDEPENDENTLY MADE THE NECESSARY INVESTMENT DECISION.
 
     The value of Exxon stock may increase or decrease. Program accounts are not
insured by the Securities Investor  Protection Corporation, the Federal  Deposit
Insurance Corporation, or any other entity.
 
ADVANTAGES
 
            Participants  pay no brokerage fees  in connection with PURCHASES of
            Common Stock under the Program.
 
            In addition to  reinvestment of dividends,  participants may  invest
            additional  funds in Common Stock  through optional cash payments of
            not less than  $50 and  not more  than $100,000  per calendar  year.
            Optional  investments  may  be  made  by  check,  money  order, wire
            transfer,  electronic  funds  transfer  from  a  predesignated  bank
            account,  or, for eligible Exxon  employees and retirees, payroll or
            annuity deduction. Optional investments may be made occasionally  or
            at regular intervals, as the participant desires.
 
            Funds  invested  in  the  Program  are  fully  invested  through the
            purchase of  fractions  of  shares,  as well  as  full  shares,  and
            proportionate  cash  dividends on  fractions of  shares are  used to
            purchase additional shares.
 
            Persons not  presently  owning shares  of  Common Stock  may  become
            participants  by making an initial cash  investment of at least $250
            to purchase shares under the Program.
 
            Participants may direct  the Program Administrator  to transfer,  at
            any  time and at no cost to the participant, all or a portion of the
            participant's Program  shares  to  a  Program  account  for  another
            person.
 
            The   Program   offers   a  'share   safekeeping'   service  whereby
            participants may deposit  their Common Stock  certificates with  the
            Program  Administrator and have their ownership of such Common Stock
            maintained on the Administrator's records  as part of their  Program
            account.
 
                                       3
 
<PAGE>
            Quarterly  statements  are mailed  to  each participant  listing all
            transactions in  the participant's  account. The  statement for  the
            fourth quarter will reflect all account activity for the year.
 
            Participants  may establish an IRA  and contribute, transfer or roll
            over amounts to the IRA through a Program account.
 
ADMINISTRATION
 
     The First National Bank of Boston (the 'Administrator') will administer the
Program, purchase and hold  shares of Common Stock  acquired under the  Program,
keep  records, send statements of account  activity to participants, and perform
other duties related to the Program. Participants may contact the  Administrator
by writing to:
 
                  Exxon Shareholder Investment Program
                  c/o Bank of Boston
                  P.O. Box 9156
                  Boston, MA 02205-9156
 
or  by telephoning the Administrator toll  free at (800) 252-1800. Operators are
available between 8 a.m. and 7 p.m. Eastern time on business days and voice mail
is available 24  hours a day.  Written communications  may also be  sent to  the
Administrator  by  telefax. Participants  should  contact the  Administrator for
current telefax numbers.
 
     The Administrator also currently serves  as transfer agent, registrar,  and
dividend   paying  agent  for  the  Corporation  and  may  have  other  business
relationships with the Corporation from time to time.
 
ELIGIBILITY
 
     Any person or entity, whether or not a holder of record of shares of Common
Stock, is eligible to participate in the Program, provided that (i) such  person
or  entity fulfills  the prerequisites  for participation  described below under
'Enrollment Procedures'  and (ii)  in the  case of  citizens or  residents of  a
country  other  than  the  United  States,  its  territories,  and  possessions,
participation would not violate local laws applicable to the Corporation or  the
participant.
 
ENROLLMENT PROCEDURES
 
     After  being furnished with a copy  of this Prospectus, eligible applicants
may join the Program by completing and signing an Enrollment Form and  returning
it  to the Administrator.  In order to  participate in the  Program, an enrollee
must either deposit one  or more share certificates  with the Administrator  for
safekeeping,  elect to reinvest cash dividends paid  on one or more whole shares
of Common Stock, or make an initial investment. Current registered  shareholders
should be sure to sign their names on the Enrollment Form exactly as they appear
on their certificates. Non-shareholders must include an initial investment of at
least  $250 (and  not more than  $100,000) with their  completed Enrollment Form
(see 'Optional Cash Investments and Initial Investments' below).
 
                                       4
 
<PAGE>
     Beneficial owners  of shares  of Common  Stock registered  in the  name  of
someone  else (for example, a bank or  broker) may participate in the Program by
transferring some or all of those shares to the Administrator for their accounts
(see 'Transfer of Shares from a Broker' below).
 
     Enrollment  Forms   will  be   processed   as  promptly   as   practicable.
Participation  in the Program will begin after the properly completed Enrollment
Form has been accepted by the Administrator.
 
INVESTMENT DATES
 
     The Program's 'Investment Dates' are Thursday of each calendar week or,  if
Thursday  is not a day on which financial  markets in New York City are open for
business, the next day on which they are so open.
 
OPTIONAL CASH INVESTMENTS AND INITIAL INVESTMENTS
 
     Participants may make optional cash investments by personal check or  money
order,  wire investment, payroll or  annuity deduction (eligible Exxon employees
and retirees only), or  automatic deduction from a  bank account. Optional  cash
investments  must be at least  $50 for any single  investment and may not exceed
$100,000 per calendar  year. There  is no obligation  to make  an optional  cash
investment at any time, and the amount of such investments may vary from time to
time.
 
     Initial investments, for those who do not already own Common Stock, must be
at  least $250,  in the form  of a  personal check or  money order,  and must be
included with  the  completed Enrollment  Form  returned to  the  Administrator,
except  that  no  minimum  initial investment  is  required  for  eligible Exxon
employees and retirees who initiate payroll or annuity deductions at the time of
enrollment.
 
     Optional cash investments and initial  investments must be received by  the
Administrator no later than 12:00 Noon Eastern time one business day prior to an
Investment Date to be invested beginning on that Investment Date. Otherwise, the
optional cash investment or initial investment will be held by the Administrator
and invested beginning on the next Investment Date. Upon a participant's written
request  received by the Administrator no later  than two business days prior to
the  applicable  Investment  Date,  an  optional  cash  investment  or   initial
investment  not already invested under the Program will be cancelled or returned
to the participant, as appropriate. However, no refund of a check or money order
will be made until the funds  have been actually received by the  Administrator.
Accordingly, such refunds may be delayed by up to three weeks.
 
     NO  INTEREST  WILL BE  PAID ON  AMOUNTS HELD  BY THE  ADMINISTRATOR PENDING
INVESTMENT. Accordingly, investors should transmit optional cash investments and
initial investments so as to reach the Administrator shortly (but not later than
12:00 Noon  Eastern  time one  business  day)  before an  Investment  Date.  All
optional  cash investments and initial investments  are subject to collection by
the Administrator of full face value in U.S. funds.
 
     See 'Source and Price of Shares' below.
 
                                       5
 
<PAGE>
INVESTMENTS MAY BE MADE IN THE FOLLOWING WAYS:
 
  Check Investment
 
     Optional cash investments and initial  investments may be made by  personal
check  or money order payable  in U.S. dollars to  'BKB -- Exxon'. Optional cash
investments  must  be  mailed  to  the  Administrator  together  with  the  Cash
Investment and Other Transaction Form attached to each statement of account sent
to  participants.  Additional Cash  Investment and  Other Transaction  Forms are
available upon request from the Administrator.
 
  Wire Investment
 
     Optional  cash  investments   may  be   made  by  wire   transfer  to   the
Administrator.  Participants who wish to make a wire transfer should contact the
Administrator for  instructions. Participants  making  wire investments  may  be
charged fees by the commercial bank initiating the transfer.
 
  Payroll or Annuity Deduction
 
     Eligible  employees of  the Corporation and  its subsidiaries  who are paid
through a U.S.  payroll ('eligible employees'),  and eligible persons  receiving
annuity  payments  from  the  Corporation or  its  subsidiaries  through  a U.S.
benefits office ('eligible retirees'), may make optional cash investments  under
the  Program by having specified  amounts (not less than  $50 per month nor more
than $100,000 per calendar year) deducted  from each paycheck or annuity  check.
To  initiate  payroll or  annuity deduction,  an  eligible employee  or eligible
retiree in the Program  must complete, sign, and  return to the Administrator  a
Payroll  or  Annuity  Deduction  Authorization Form.  Forms  are  available upon
request from  the  Administrator.  Forms  will  be  processed  and  will  become
effective as promptly as practicable.
 
     Exxon  will make payroll or annuity deductions from each payroll or annuity
check  during  the  month   and  will  promptly  forward   such  funds  to   the
Administrator.  For purposes of the Program,  annuity deductions on the first of
the month will  be included in  the payment  made to the  Administrator for  the
prior  month. The Administrator will  invest funds in Common  Stock once a month
beginning on the  first Investment  Date. Accordingly,  participants using  this
investment  option should recognize that, depending  on the applicable pay date,
funds deducted from a particular paycheck  or annuity check may not be  invested
by the Administrator for several weeks. NO INTEREST WILL BE PAID ON AMOUNTS HELD
PENDING INVESTMENT.
 
     Eligible  employees and retirees who wish to  enroll in the Program but who
are not shareholders may  satisfy the requirement for  an initial investment  by
initiating payroll or annuity deduction at the time of enrollment.
 
     Participants  may  change the  amount of  payroll  or annuity  deduction or
terminate payroll  or  annuity deduction  by  completing and  submitting  a  new
Payroll or Annuity Deduction Authorization Form.
 
                                       6
 
<PAGE>
  Automatic Investment from a Bank Account
 
     Participants  may make automatic monthly  investments of a specified amount
(not less  than $50  per month  nor more  than $100,000  per calendar  year)  by
electronic funds transfer from a pre-designated U.S. bank account.
 
     To initiate automatic monthly deductions, the participant must complete and
sign  an Automatic Investment  Form and return it  to the Administrator together
with a voided  blank check for  the account from  which funds are  to be  drawn.
Automatic Investment Forms may be obtained from the Administrator. Forms will be
processed and will become effective as promptly as practicable.
 
     Once automatic monthly deduction is initiated, funds will be drawn from the
participant's  designated bank  account on the  business day  preceding the last
Investment Date of each month, and will be invested in Common Stock beginning on
that Investment Date.
 
     Participants  may  change  or  terminate  automatic  monthly  deduction  by
completing  and submitting to the Administrator a new Automatic Investment Form.
To be effective with respect to  a particular month, however, the new  Automatic
Investment Form must be received by the Administrator prior to the last business
day of the preceding calendar month.
 
REINVESTMENT OF CASH DIVIDENDS
 
     Participants  may elect to reinvest cash dividends paid on all or a portion
of the shares of Common Stock registered in their names and held in  certificate
form  ('certificated  shares') and  the  shares of  Common  Stock held  in their
Program accounts  ('Program  shares')  by  designating  their  election  on  the
Enrollment  Form. Participants  electing partial reinvestment  of cash dividends
must designate the number of  whole shares for which  they want to receive  cash
dividends.  Dividends paid on  all other certificated and  Program shares in the
participant's name will be reinvested in additional shares of Common Stock.
 
     Reinvestment levels  may be  changed from  time to  time as  a  participant
desires  by  calling  the  Administrator.  To be  effective  with  respect  to a
particular Common Stock dividend, any  change in the reinvestment election  must
be received by the Administrator on or before the record date for such dividend.
The record date is usually about one month prior to the payment of the dividend.
The Corporation has historically paid cash dividends on the 10th of March, June,
September and December, or on the 11th if the 10th is a Sunday.
 
     Once a participant elects reinvestment, cash dividends paid on certificated
and  Program shares  standing in that  participant's name will  be reinvested in
additional shares of Common Stock (see  'Source and Price of Shares' below).  If
the  participant  has  specified  partial  reinvestment,  that  portion  of such
dividend payment not being reinvested will  be sent to the participant by  check
in  the usual manner  or by direct  deposit, if the  participant has elected the
direct deposit option (see 'Direct Deposit of
 
                                       7
 
<PAGE>
Dividends' below). The Administrator may,  in its discretion, initiate  purchase
transactions  for the reinvestment  of dividends prior to  the actual payment of
dividends.
 
TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION
 
     A participant may  terminate participation in  the Program at  any time  by
giving   written  instructions   to  the  Administrator.   Upon  termination,  a
certificate for any whole shares held in the Program for the participant will be
issued. Alternatively, a participant may specify in the termination notice  that
all (but not less than all) whole Program shares be sold. The Administrator will
make  the  sale beginning  on  the next  Investment  Date after  receipt  of the
termination notice (see 'Source and Price of Shares' below), and the participant
will receive a check for the proceeds,  less an administrative charge of $5  and
applicable  brokerage  commissions,  if any  (currently  approximately  $.10 per
share).
 
     Whether  whole  Program   shares  are  delivered   or  sold,   participants
terminating participation in the Program will receive a check for the cash value
of any fractional share held in their Program accounts. Fractions of shares will
be  valued at the same  price as whole shares sold  with respect to the relevant
Investment Date.  After participation  in the  Program has  been terminated,  no
further investments may be made without re-enrolling in the Program.
 
     For  participants  who have  elected to  reinvest  dividends: if  notice of
termination is received on or before the fifth business day preceding a dividend
payment date,  the  termination will  be  processed  as described  above  and  a
separate  check for the dividends will be  mailed following the payment date. If
notice of  termination is  received after  the fifth  business day  preceding  a
dividend  payment date, the termination will be processed after giving effect to
reinvestment of the applicable dividend.
 
SALE OF SHARES
 
     Participants may  request the  Administrator to  sell any  number of  whole
shares  held in  their Program  accounts by  giving written  instructions to the
Administrator. The  Administrator will  make  the sale  beginning on  the  first
Investment  Date  following receipt  of the  request (see  'Source and  Price of
Shares'  below).   The  participant   will  receive   the  proceeds,   less   an
administrative  charge  of  $5  and  applicable  brokerage  commissions,  if any
(currently approximately $.10 per  share). Proceeds of  shares sold through  the
Program will be paid to the participant normally by check. A request to sell all
shares  held in  a participant's  account will  be treated  as a  termination of
participation in the Program (see 'Termination of Participation' above).
 
     For participants who  have elected to  reinvest dividends: if  instructions
for  the  sale  of shares  are  received on  or  before the  fifth  business day
preceding a dividend payment date, the sale will be processed as described above
and a separate  check for  the dividends will  be mailed  following the  payment
date.  If  instructions for  the sale  of  shares are  received after  the fifth
business day preceding a dividend payment date, the sale will be processed after
giving effect to reinvestment of the applicable dividend.
 
                                       8
 
<PAGE>
SOURCE AND PRICE OF SHARES
 
  Source
 
     To fulfill Program  requirements, the  Administrator may  purchase or  sell
shares  in  the  open  market  or  in  privately  negotiated  transactions.  The
Administrator may also, in its discretion,  purchase shares from or sell  shares
to  the Corporation, to the extent the  Corporation makes shares available or is
willing to purchase shares and subject to certain regulatory limitations on  the
frequency  with which the Corporation can change  its determination to do so. It
is currently expected that  shares will be  purchased and sold  on the New  York
Stock  Exchange. Market transactions are  effected through agents (currently, CS
First Boston Corporation)  engaged by the  Administrator. The Administrator  may
commingle  each participant's  funds with  those of  other participants  for the
purpose of executing purchases, and may offset purchases of shares against sales
of shares to be made for participants under the Program with respect to the same
Investment Date, resulting in a net purchase or a net sale of shares.
 
     The Administrator  will purchase  or  sell shares  as soon  as  practicable
beginning on the relevant Investment Date and in no event later than 30 days (in
the  case  of dividend  reinvestment) or  35 days  (in the  case of  initial and
optional cash investments),  respectively, after the  relevant Investment  Date,
except where and to the extent necessary under any applicable federal securities
laws or other government or stock exchange regulations.
 
     Dividend   and  voting  rights  on  purchased  shares  will  commence  upon
settlement, which is normally three business days after purchase.
 
     Shares purchased within a  period of three (3)  business days prior to  and
including  a  dividend record  date are  considered purchased  'ex-dividend' and
therefore are not entitled to payment of that dividend.
 
  Price
 
     Shares purchased or  sold for a  participant with respect  to a  particular
Investment  Date will be  credited to the participant's  account at the WEIGHTED
AVERAGE PRICE PER  SHARE OF ALL  SHARES PURCHASED OR  SOLD FOR PARTICIPANTS,  as
appropriate,  with respect to that Investment  Date. Shares purchased or sold in
the open market  or in  privately negotiated  transactions are  subject to  such
terms  and conditions,  including price and  delivery, as  the Administrator may
accept. The  Corporation will  pay any  applicable commissions  or fees  on  the
purchase  of shares,  but participants  will be  charged with  an administrative
charge and any commissions on sales  as described under 'Sale of Shares'  above.
The  price of shares purchased from or sold  to the Corporation, if any, will be
the average of the high and low sale  prices of Common Stock as reported on  the
New York Stock Exchange consolidated tape on the date of the transaction.
 
DIRECT DEPOSIT OF DIVIDENDS
 
     Through  the Program's  direct deposit  feature, participants  may elect to
have any  cash  dividends  not  being  reinvested  under  the  Program  paid  by
electronic funds
 
                                       9
 
<PAGE>
transfer  to  the  participant's  predesignated bank  account.  To  receive such
dividends by  direct deposit,  participants  must first  complete and  sign  the
Direct  Deposit Authorization  Form and  return the  Form to  the Administrator.
Direct  Deposit  Authorization  Forms  are  available  upon  request  from   the
Administrator.
 
     Forms   will  be  processed  and  will  become  effective  as  promptly  as
practicable. Participants may change the  designated account for direct  deposit
or  discontinue this  feature by  written instruction  to the  Administrator. In
order to be effective with respect to a particular dividend, the Direct  Deposit
Authorization  form  and any  subsequent instructions  must  be received  by the
Administrator prior to the record date for the dividend.
 
SHARE SAFEKEEPING
 
     At  the  time  of  enrollment  in  the  Program,  or  at  any  later  time,
participants  may use the  Program's 'share safekeeping'  service to deposit any
Common Stock certificates  in their  possession with  the Administrator.  Shares
deposited  will be transferred into the name of the Administrator or its nominee
and credited to the  participant's account under  the Program. Thereafter,  such
shares  will  be treated  in the  same  manner as  shares purchased  through the
Program.
 
     By using the  Program's share safekeeping  service, participants no  longer
bear  the risk associated with loss, theft or destruction of stock certificates.
Also, because shares deposited  with the Administrator are  treated in the  same
manner  as shares purchased through the Program, they may be transferred or sold
through the Program in  a convenient and efficient  manner. See 'Termination  of
Participation'  and 'Sale of  Shares' above and  'Gift/Transfer of Shares Within
the Program' below.
 
     Participants who wish to deposit  their Common Stock certificates with  the
Administrator  must send to the Administrator, preferably by registered, insured
mail, the  Common Stock  certificates to  be deposited,  along with  a  properly
completed  Enrollment Form or  Cash Investment and  Other Transaction Form. Both
Forms are  available from  the  Administrator. The  certificates should  not  be
endorsed.
 
TRANSFER OF SHARES FROM A BROKER
 
     Owners  of  Common Stock  may wish  to transfer  to their  Program accounts
shares owned by them but held in 'street name' through a broker or other  agent.
To do so, participants must complete a Broker Transfer Form and return it to the
Administrator.  The Administrator,  upon receipt  of a  properly completed Form,
will contact the broker holding the shares  of Common Stock and will arrange  to
transfer  those  shares  specified  by  the participant  into  the  name  of the
Administrator or its nominee for credit  to the participant's account under  the
Program.   Broker   Transfer  Forms   are  available   upon  request   from  the
Administrator.
 
     Share owners wishing to enroll in the Program using shares transferred from
a broker  must  include a  properly  completed  Broker Transfer  Form  with  the
Enrollment Form returned to the Administrator. Participation in the Program will
commence when
 
                                       10
 
<PAGE>
shares  of Common Stock are received  by the Administrator from the transferring
broker.
 
INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNT
 
     The Administrator, The First National Bank of Boston, offers an  Individual
Retirement  Account  that  invests  in Common  Stock  through  the  Program (the
'Program IRA'). After  being furnished with  a copy of  this Prospectus and  the
Administrator's  IRA Agreement and Disclosure  Statement, individuals may open a
Program IRA by completing and signing an IRA Enrollment Form and returning it to
the Administrator with an initial  contribution. The minimum initial  investment
for  a Program IRA is $250. For the purpose of rolling over an existing IRA or a
qualified plan distribution, the maximum  annual investment does not apply.  IRA
Enrollment Forms are available upon request from the Administrator.
 
     The  Program  IRA referred  to  above is  offered  by the  Administrator as
Trustee.  Other  custodians  and  trustees  may  offer  similar  services.   The
Administrator has the right to charge reasonable fees for its IRA services. Such
fees  are described in  the IRA Disclosure  Statement as in  effect from time to
time.
 
GIFT/TRANSFER OF SHARES WITHIN THE PROGRAM
 
     If a participant wishes  to transfer the  ownership of all  or part of  the
shares  held  in the  participant's  Program account  to  a Program  account for
another person, whether by gift, private sale or otherwise, the participant  may
effect  such transfer by mailing a  properly completed Gift/Transfer Form to the
Administrator. Requests for transfer are subject to the same requirements as for
the transfer  of  Common Stock  certificates,  including the  requirement  of  a
Medallion  signature guarantee on the  stock assignment. Gift/Transfer Forms and
Stock Power Forms are available upon request from the Administrator.
 
     Shares so transferred will continue to  be held by the Administrator  under
the  Program. An account will be opened in  the name of the transferee, if he or
she is not  already a  participant, and  such transferee  will automatically  be
enrolled  in  the  Program.  If  the  transferee  is  not  already  a registered
shareholder or a Program participant, the donor may make a reinvestment election
for the  transferee at  the time  of the  gift. The  transferee may  change  the
reinvestment   election  after  the  gift  has  been  made  as  described  under
'Reinvestment of Cash Dividends' above.
 
     The transferee  will  receive a  statement  showing the  number  of  shares
transferred  to and held in the transferee's Program account. Also, if requested
by the participant, a gift certificate acknowledging the transfer of shares will
be made available free of charge.
 
REPORTS TO PARTICIPANTS
 
     Each participant  will receive  a quarterly  statement showing  the  amount
invested,  purchase  price, the  number  of shares  purchased,  deposited, sold,
transferred, or  withdrawn, the  total number  of shares  accumulated and  other
information for each
 
                                       11
 
<PAGE>
quarter  during the year.  The quarterly statement  will consolidate all Program
and certificated shares standing  in the participant's  name. The statement  for
the  fourth  quarter  will  reflect  all account  activity  for  the  year. Each
participant should retain  these statements so  as to be  able to establish  the
cost  basis  of shares  purchased under  the  Program for  income tax  and other
purposes. Duplicate statements will be available from the Administrator.
 
     The Administrator will also send  each participant a confirmation  promptly
after enrollment and after each optional check or wire investment, deposit, sale
or   transfer.  Payroll   deductions,  annuity   deductions,  automatic  monthly
deductions and dividend  reinvestments will not  be individually confirmed,  but
rather will appear on the quarterly statements.
 
     In   addition,   each  participant   will  receive   copies  of   the  same
communications sent to other  holders of shares of  Common Stock, including  the
Corporation's  annual report to stockholders, a notice of the annual meeting and
accompanying proxy statement, and  Internal Revenue Service information  return,
if so required, for reporting dividend income received.
 
     All notices, statements and reports from the Administrator to a participant
will be addressed to the participant at his or her latest address of record with
the   Administrator.   Therefore,   participants   must   promptly   notify  the
Administrator of any change of address. To be effective with respect to mailings
of dividend  checks  and  quarterly  statements and  reports  for  a  particular
quarter,  address changes  must be  received by  the Administrator  prior to the
record date for that quarter's dividend.
 
CERTIFICATES FOR SHARES
 
     Shares purchased and held under the Program will be held in safekeeping  by
the  Administrator in its name or the name  of its nominee. The number of shares
(including fractional interests) held for each participant will be shown on each
statement of account. Participants may obtain a new certificate for all or  some
of  the whole shares of Common Stock held in their Program accounts upon written
request to the Administrator. Any  remaining whole or fractional Program  shares
will  continue to be held by the Administrator. Withdrawal of shares in the form
of a certificate in no way  affects dividend reinvestment (see 'Reinvestment  of
Cash Dividends' above).
 
     Except  as  described  above  under  'Gift/Transfer  of  Shares  Within the
Program', shares of stock held by the Administrator for a participant's  Program
account  may not be pledged  or assigned. A participant  who wishes to pledge or
assign any such shares must request that a certificate for such shares be issued
in the participant's name.
 
MISCELLANEOUS
 
  Stock Split, Stock Dividend or Rights Offering
 
     Any  dividends  in  Common  Stock  or  split  shares  distributed  by   the
Corporation  on Program shares will be added to the participant's account. Stock
dividends or  split shares  distributed on  certificated shares  will be  mailed
directly to the participant in the
 
                                       12
 
<PAGE>
same  manner as to shareholders  who are not participating  in the Program. If a
participant has elected to receive cash dividends rather than reinvest them, the
election will be adjusted proportionately in the event of a stock split.
 
     In the event  of a  rights offering,  the participant  will receive  rights
based  upon the total number of whole shares owned, that is, the total number of
Program and certificated shares standing in the participant's name.
 
  Voting of Program Shares
 
     Whole shares held in  a Program account  may be voted in  person or by  the
proxy sent to the participant.
 
  Limitation of Liability
 
     Neither  the Corporation nor the Administrator (nor any of their respective
agents, representatives, employees, officers, directors, or subcontractors) will
be liable in administering the  Program for any act done  in good faith nor  for
any  good faith  omission to  act, including,  without limitation,  any claim of
liability arising  with respect  to the  prices  or times  at which  shares  are
purchased or sold for participants, or any change in the market value of shares,
or  from failure to terminate a  participant's account upon such a participant's
death. The foregoing does not represent a waiver of any rights a participant may
have under applicable securities laws.
 
  Change or Termination of the Program
 
     The Corporation may suspend, modify or terminate the Program at any time in
whole, in part,  or in  respect of participants  in one  or more  jurisdictions.
Notice  of  such suspension,  modification or  termination will  be sent  to all
affected participants. No such event will  affect any shares then credited to  a
participant's  account. Upon any whole or  partial termination of the Program by
the Corporation, certificates for whole shares held in an affected participant's
account under the Program will be issued  to the participant and a cash  payment
will  be made for any fraction of a share. Fractions of shares will be valued at
the same effective price as whole shares sold with respect to the next  relevant
Investment Date as described under 'Source and Price of Shares' above.
 
  Termination of Participation
 
     If  a participant does not  own at least one  whole Program or certificated
share in the participant's name, the participant's participation in the  Program
may  be terminated. Exxon may also  terminate any participant's participation in
the Program after written  notice in advance mailed  to such participant at  the
address   appearing   on   the  Administrator's   records.   Participants  whose
participation in the Program has  been terminated will receive certificates  for
any  whole shares held in their  accounts and a check for  the cash value of any
fractional share held  in their Program  accounts. Fractions of  shares will  be
valued  at the same price as whole shares sold with respect to the next relevant
Investment Date as described under 'Source and Price of Shares' above.
 
                                       13
 
<PAGE>
                                THE CORPORATION
 
     Exxon Corporation,  the issuer  of  the Common  Stock offered  hereby,  was
incorporated  in the  State of New  Jersey in 1882.  The Corporation's principal
executive office is located at 225  E. John W. Carpenter Freeway, Irving,  Texas
75062-2298, and its telephone number is (214) 444-1000.
 
     Divisions and affiliated companies of the Corporation operate in the United
States  and  over  100  other countries.  Their  principal  business  is energy,
involving exploration  for,  and  production  of, crude  oil  and  natural  gas,
manufacturing  of petroleum products, and transportation  and sale of crude oil,
natural gas and petroleum  products. Exxon Chemical Company,  a division of  the
Corporation,  is  a  major  manufacturer  and  marketer  of  petrochemicals. The
Corporation and its affiliates  are engaged in exploration  for, and mining  and
sale  of,  coal and  other minerals.  The  Corporation also  has an  interest in
electric power generation in  Hong Kong. Affiliates  of the Corporation  conduct
extensive research programs in support of these businesses.
 
                                TAX CONSEQUENCES
 
     The  Corporation believes the  following is an accurate  summary of the tax
consequences of participation in the Program as of the date of this  Prospectus.
This  summary does not  reflect every possible situation  that could result from
participation in the Program,  and, therefore, participants  in the Program  are
advised  to consult their own tax advisors  with respect to the tax consequences
(including federal, state,  local and other  tax laws and  U.S. tax  withholding
laws) applicable to their particular situations.
 
     In  general, the amount of cash dividends  paid by the Corporation is still
includable in  income  even though  reinvested  under the  Program.  Under  this
general  rule, the  cost basis  for federal  income tax  purposes of  any shares
acquired through the Program will be the price at which the shares are  credited
by  the Administrator  to the  account of  the participant  as described  in the
section entitled  'Source  and  Price  of Shares'.  In  connection  with  market
purchases,  BROKERAGE  COMMISSIONS PAID  BY THE  CORPORATION ON  A PARTICIPANT'S
BEHALF ARE TO  BE TREATED AS  DISTRIBUTIONS SUBJECT  TO INCOME TAX  in the  same
manner  as dividends. The  amounts paid for  brokerage commissions are, however,
includable in the cost bases of shares purchased. The information return sent to
participants and the  IRS at year-end,  if so required,  will show such  amounts
paid on their behalf.
 
     The  above  rules may  not  be applicable  to  certain participants  in the
Program, such as tax-exempt entities (e.g., pension funds and IRAs) and  foreign
shareholders.  These  particular  participants  should  consult  their  own  tax
advisors concerning the tax consequences applicable to their situations.
 
     In the case of participants in  the Program whose dividends are subject  to
U.S.  backup  withholding, the  Administrator will  reinvest dividends  less the
amount of tax required to be withheld.
 
                                       14
 
<PAGE>
     In the case  of foreign shareholders  whose dividends are  subject to  U.S.
federal  tax  withholding, the  Administrator will  reinvest dividends  less the
amount of tax required to be withheld. The filing of any documentation  required
to  obtain a reduction in U.S. withholding tax will be the responsibility of the
shareholder.
 
                                USE OF PROCEEDS
 
     At present, it is expected that purchases of Common Stock under the Program
will be made in the  open market and that the  Corporation will not receive  any
proceeds  therefrom. If  purchases of  Common Stock  are made  directly from the
Corporation, the Corporation intends to use  any net proceeds from the sales  of
such shares for general corporate purposes.
 
                                 LEGAL MATTERS
 
     Counsel  who has passed  upon legal matters concerning  the Program and the
validity of the shares of Common Stock offered hereby is James Earl Parsons, who
is regularly employed as Counsel for  the Corporation. Mr. Parsons owns and  has
options to purchase shares of Common Stock and is a participant in the Program.
 
                                    EXPERTS
 
     The  financial statements incorporated  in this Prospectus  by reference to
the Exxon Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1994 have been so  incorporated in reliance on  the reports of Price  Waterhouse
LLP,  independent accountants, given on the authority of said firm as experts in
auditing and accounting.
 
     The financial statements similarly incorporated herein by reference to  all
documents  subsequently  filed by  the Corporation  pursuant to  Sections 13(a),
13(c), 14, and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 prior to the  filing
of a post-effective amendment which indicates that all securities offered hereby
have been sold or which deregisters all securities then remaining unsold, are or
will  be so incorporated in reliance on the reports of Price Waterhouse LLP, and
any other independent accountants, relating to such financial statements and  on
the  authority  of  such  independent accountants  as  experts  in  auditing and
accounting in giving  such reports to  the extent that  the particular firm  has
examined  such financial  statements and consented  to the use  of their reports
thereon.
 
                                       15

<PAGE>
     No  dealer, salesman or  any other person  has been authorized  to give any
information or to make  any representations other than  those contained in  this
Prospectus,  and, if given or made, such information or representations must not
be relied upon as having been authorized by the Corporation or by any dealer  or
agent.  This Prospectus shall not constitute an  offer to sell or a solicitation
of an offer to buy any of  the securities offered hereby in any jurisdiction  to
any  person to whom  it is unlawful to  make such offer  or solicitation in such
jurisdiction.
 
     The delivery of this Prospectus at any time does not imply that information
herein is correct as of any time subsequent to the date hereof.
 
                EXXON CORPORATION SHAREHOLDER INVESTMENT PROGRAM
 
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                            PAGE
                                                                                            ----
 
<S>                                                                                         <C>
Available Information....................................................................     2
Documents Incorporated by Reference......................................................     2
Exxon Corporation Shareholder Investment Program
  Purpose; Other Considerations..........................................................     3
  Advantages.............................................................................     3
  Administration.........................................................................     4
  Eligibility............................................................................     4
  Enrollment Procedures..................................................................     4
  Investment Dates.......................................................................     5
  Optional Cash Investments and Initial Investments......................................     5
  Reinvestment of Cash Dividends.........................................................     7
  Termination of Participation...........................................................     8
  Sale of Shares.........................................................................     8
  Source and Price of Shares.............................................................     9
  Direct Deposit of Dividends............................................................     9
  Share Safekeeping......................................................................    10
  Transfer of Shares from a Broker.......................................................    10
  Individual Retirement Account..........................................................    11
  Gift/Transfer of Shares Within the Program.............................................    11
  Reports to Participants................................................................    11
  Certificates for Shares................................................................    12
  Miscellaneous..........................................................................    12
The Corporation..........................................................................    14
Tax Consequences.........................................................................    14
Use of Proceeds..........................................................................    15
Legal Matters............................................................................    15
Experts..................................................................................    15
 
                                                                Printed on Recycled Paper ['RECYCLED' Logo]
</TABLE>

<PAGE>
                                    PART II
 
                     INFORMATION NOT REQUIRED IN PROSPECTUS
 
ITEM 14. OTHER EXPENSES OF ISSUANCE AND DISTRIBUTION
 
<TABLE>
<S>                                                                                    <C>
Securities and Exchange Commission Registration Fee.................................   $237,284.48
Printing and Engraving Expenses.....................................................         5,000*
Accountants' Fees and Expenses......................................................         3,000*
Blue Sky Fees and Expenses..........................................................        10,000*
Miscellaneous.......................................................................         5,000*
                                                                                       -----------
     Total..........................................................................   $260,284.48*
                                                                                       -----------
                                                                                       -----------
</TABLE>
 
- ------------
 
*  Estimated.
 
ITEM 15. INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
 
     Exxon  Corporation has  no provisions  for indemnification  of directors or
officers in its certificate of incorporation. Article X of the By-Laws of  Exxon
Corporation provides that it shall indemnify to the full extent permitted by law
any  director or  officer made  or threatened to  be made  a party  to any legal
action by reason of  the fact that  such person is or  was a director,  officer,
employee  or other  corporate agent  of Exxon  Corporation or  any subsidiary or
served any  other  enterprise  at  the  request  of  Exxon  Corporation  against
expenses,  judgments,  fines,  penalties,  excise  taxes  and  amounts  paid  in
settlement.  The  New   Jersey  Business  Corporation   Act  provides  for   the
indemnification of directors and officers under certain conditions.
 
     Exxon  Corporation has purchased directors and officers liability insurance
coverage  from  Ancon  Insurance  Company,  Inc.,  an  indirectly   wholly-owned
subsidiary of Exxon Corporation ('Ancon'), subject to cancellation by Ancon upon
365  days' written  notice. In general,  such insurance provides  coverage up to
$100 million for payment  on behalf of directors  and certain officers of  Exxon
Corporation  of amounts  they are  legally obligated  to pay  because of covered
risks for which  Exxon Corporation  is not  required or  permitted to  indemnify
them.
 
ITEM 16. EXHIBITS
 
     See Index to Exhibits.
 
ITEM 17. UNDERTAKINGS
 
     (a) The undersigned registrant hereby undertakes:
 
          (1) to file, during any period in which offers or sales are being made
     of  the securities  registered hereby,  a post-effective  amendment to this
     registration statement:
 
             (i) to include any prospectus  required by Section 10(a)(3) of  the
        Securities Act of 1933;
 
             (ii) to reflect in the prospectus any facts or events arising after
        the  effective date  of the registration  statement (or  the most recent
        post-effective  amendment  thereof)  which,   individually  or  in   the
        aggregate,  represent a fundamental change  in the information set forth
        in the registration statement;
 
             (iii) to include any material information with respect to the  plan
        of  distribution not previously disclosed  in the registration statement
        or  any  material  change  to  such  information  in  the   registration
        statement;
 
     provided,  however, that the  undertakings set forth  in paragraphs (i) and
     (ii) above do not  apply if the  information required to  be included in  a
     post-effective  amendment  by  those paragraphs  is  contained  in periodic
     reports filed  with  or  furnished  to the  Commission  by  the  registrant
     pursuant
 
                                      II-1
 
<PAGE>
     to  section 13 or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that
     are incorporated by reference in this registration statement;
 
          (2) that  for  the purpose  of  determining any  liability  under  the
     Securities  Act of 1933, each such post-effective amendment shall be deemed
     to be  a new  registration  statement relating  to the  securities  offered
     therein,  and the offering of such securities  at that time shall be deemed
     to be the initial bona fide offering thereof; and
 
          (3) to remove from registration by means of a post-effective amendment
     any  of  the  securities  being  registered  which  remain  unsold  at  the
     termination of the offering.
 
     (b)  The  undersigned registrant  hereby undertakes  that, for  purposes of
determining any liability under the Securities  Act of 1933, each filing of  the
registrant's  annual report  pursuant to section  13(a) or section  15(d) of the
Securities Exchange  Act  of 1934  that  is  incorporated by  reference  in  the
registration  statement  shall  be deemed  to  be a  new  registration statement
relating to the securities offered therein, and the offering of such  securities
at that time shall be deemed to be the initial bona fide offering thereof.
 
     (c) Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities
Act  of 1933 may be permitted to  directors, officers and controlling persons of
the registrant pursuant  to the  provisions described  under Item  15 above,  or
otherwise, the registrant has been advised that in the opinion of the Securities
and  Exchange  Commission  such  indemnification  is  against  public  policy as
expressed in the  Act, and  is, therefore, unenforceable.  In the  event that  a
claim  for indemnification against  such liabilities (other  than the payment by
either registrant  of  expenses incurred  or  paid  by a  director,  officer  or
controlling  person of such registrant in  the successful defense of any action,
suit or proceeding) is asserted against the registrant by such director, officer
or controlling person in  connection with the  securities being registered,  the
registrant  will,  unless in  the opinion  of  its counsel  the matter  has been
settled by controlling precedent, submit to a court of appropriate  jurisdiction
the  question whether  such indemnification  by it  is against  public policy as
expressed in the  Act and will  be governed  by the final  adjudication of  such
issue.
 
                                      II-2
 
<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  the  Securities  Act  of  1933,  Exxon
Corporation certifies that it  has reasonable grounds to  believe that it  meets
all  of  the  requirements for  filing  on Form  S-3  and has  duly  caused this
Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-3  to  be  signed  on  its  behalf  by  the
undersigned,  thereunto duly authorized, in the  City of Irving, State of Texas,
on the 28th day of June, 1995.
 
                                          EXXON CORPORATION
 
                                                    /S/ E. A. ROBINSON
                                           .....................................
                                                     (E. A. ROBINSON)
                                               VICE PRESIDENT AND TREASURER
 
     Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  the  Securities  Act  of  1933,   this
Registration  Statement has  been signed below  by the following  persons in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                SIGNATURE                                      TITLE                              DATE
- ------------------------------------------  --------------------------------------------   -------------------

<S>                                         <C>                                            <C>
                    *                       Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive         June 28, 1995
 .........................................    Officer (Principal Executive Officer)
             (L. R. RAYMOND)
 
                    *                       Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
             (R. W. BROMERY)
 
                    *                       Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
           (D. WAYNE CALLOWAY)
 
                    *                       Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
                (JESS HAY)
 
                    *                       Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
           (JAMES R. HOUGHTON)
 
                    *                       Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
             (WILLIAM HOWELL)
 
                    *                       Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
          (PHILIP E. LIPPINCOTT)
 
                    *                       Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
         (MARILYN CARLSON NELSON)
 
                    *                       Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
              (C. R. SITTER)
 
                    *                       Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
             (JOHN H. STEELE)
 
                    *                       Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
           (ROBERT E. WILHELM)
 
                    *                       Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
           (JOSEPH D. WILLIAMS)
</TABLE>
 
                                      II-3
 
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                SIGNATURE                                      TITLE                              DATE
- ------------------------------------------  --------------------------------------------   -------------------
<C>                                         <S>                                            <C>
              E. A. ROBINSON                Treasurer (Principal Financial Officer)           June 28, 1995
 .........................................
             (E. A. ROBINSON)
 
                    *                       Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)         June 28, 1995
 .........................................
               (W. B. COOK)
 
      *By        /s/ E. A. ROBINSON
 .........................................
             (E. A. ROBINSON)
             ATTORNEY-IN-FACT
</TABLE>
 
                                      II-4

<PAGE>
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
EXHIBIT NO.                                            DESCRIPTION                                             PAGE
- ------------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   ----
 
<C>           <S>                                                                                              <C>
     5        -- Opinion of James Earl Parsons, counsel for Exxon Corporation...............................
   23(a)      -- Consent of James Earl Parsons (included in the opinion filed as Exhibit 5 to this
                 Registration Statement).....................................................................
   23(b)      -- Consent of Independent Accountants.........................................................
     24       -- Power of Attorney..........................................................................
</TABLE>
 

</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-5
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 5
<TEXT>


<PAGE>
                                                                       EXHIBIT 5
                                                                   June 28, 1995
 
Securities and Exchange Commission
450 Fifth Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
Re: Exxon Corporation -- Shareholder Investment Program
 
Gentlemen:
 
     As   counsel  to   Exxon  Corporation,   a  New   Jersey  corporation  (the
'Corporation'), I am familiar with its Restated Certificate of Incorporation and
By-laws, as  amended to  date.  I have  examined  its corporate  proceedings  in
connection  with the preparation and filing  of a registration statement on Form
S-3 of even date herewith (the 'Registration Statement'), covering shares of the
Corporation's common stock,  no par value  ('Common Stock'), offered  and to  be
offered  pursuant to the  Exxon Corporation Shareholder  Investment Program (the
'Program'). I have  also examined  originals or copies,  certified or  otherwise
authenticated  to  my satisfaction,  or all  such documents  and records  of the
Corporation, of such agreements, and  of such certificates of public  officials,
officers  and representatives of  the Corporation, and others,  as I have deemed
necessary to require as a basis for the opinions hereinafter expressed.
 
     In all such examinations, I have assumed the genuineness of all signatures,
the authority to sign of all signatories, the due execution of all original  and
certified  documents, and the conformity to the original and certified documents
of all copies submitted to me as conformed or photostatic copies. As to  various
questions  of fact  material to  my opinion, I  have relied  upon statements and
certificates of officers of the Corporation, public officials, and others.
 
     Based upon and subject  to the foregoing and  to the qualifications  herein
specified, I am of the opinion that:
 
     The  shares  of Common  Stock offered  and  to be  offered pursuant  to the
Program are duly  authorized and,  when delivered in  connection with  purchases
under  the Program in accordance with the terms thereof, are and will be validly
issued, fully paid, and non-assessable.
 
     The opinions expressed  herein relate  solely to  the federal  laws of  the
United States and the New Jersey Business Corporation Law.
 
     I  hereby consent to the  use of my name  in the Registration Statement and
the prospectus forming a part thereof under the caption 'Legal Matters,' and  to
the  filing of this opinion as an exhibit  thereto. In giving this consent, I do
not thereby admit that I am in the category of persons whose consent is required
under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933.
 
                                          Very truly yours,
                                          JAMES EARL PARSONS
 
JEP


</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23(B)
<TEXT>


<PAGE>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 23(b)
 
                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
     We hereby  consent to  the  incorporation by  reference in  the  Prospectus
constituting  part  of this  Registration Statement  on Form  S-3 for  the Exxon
Corporation Shareholder Investment Program of our report dated February 22, 1995
on the consolidated financial statements of Exxon Corporation, which appears  on
page  F11 of the 1994 Annual Report  to Shareholders of Exxon Corporation, which
is incorporated by reference in Exxon  Corporation's Annual Report on Form  10-K
for  the year ended  December 31, 1994. We  also consent to  the reference to us
under the heading 'Experts' in such Prospectus.
PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP
Dallas, Texas
June 28, 1995


</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 24
<TEXT>


<PAGE>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 24
 
                               EXXON CORPORATION
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
     Each  person whose signature  appears below constitutes  and appoints T. P.
Townsend, Edgar A. Robinson and  W. B. Cook, and each  of them, his or her  true
and  lawful attorneys-in-fact  and agents, with  full power  of substitution and
resubstitution, for him or her and in his  or her own name, place and stead,  in
any  and all capacities  to sign a  Registration Statement to  be filed with the
Securities and  Exchange  Commission  with  respect to  common  stock  of  Exxon
Corporation   offered  or  sold  pursuant  to  Exxon  Corporation's  Shareholder
Investment Program and to sign any and all amendments or supplements  (including
post-effective amendments) to such Registration Statement, and to file the same,
with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities  and Exchange  Commission, granting  unto said  attorneys-in-fact and
agents, and each of them,  full power and authority to  do and perform each  and
every  act and thing requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents
and purposes as  he or she  might or could  do in person,  hereby ratifying  and
confirming  all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents  or any of them, or their
or his or her  substitute or substitutes,  may lawfully do or  cause be done  by
virtue hereof.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                SIGNATURE                                      TITLE                              DATE
- ------------------------------------------  --------------------------------------------   -------------------
 
<C>                                         <S>                                            <C>
              LEE R. RAYMOND                Chairman of the Board (Principal Executive        June 28, 1995
 .........................................    Officer)
             (LEE R. RAYMOND)
 
              R. W. BROMERY                 Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
             (R. W. BROMERY)
 
            D. WAYNE CALLOWAY               Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
           (D. WAYNE CALLOWAY)
 
                 JESS HAY                   Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
                (JESS HAY)
 
            JAMES R. HOUGHTON               Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
           (JAMES R. HOUGHTON)
 
            WILLIAM R. HOWELL               Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
           (WILLIAM R. HOWELL)
 
           PHILIP E. LIPPINCOTT             Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
          (PHILIP E. LIPPINCOTT)
 
          MARILYN CARLSON NELSON            Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
         (MARILYN CARLSON NELSON)
 
               C. R. SITTER                 Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
              (C. R. SITTER)
 
              JOHN H. STEELE                Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
             (JOHN H. STEELE)
 
            ROBERT E. WILHELM               Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
           (ROBERT E. WILHELM)
</TABLE>
 
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                SIGNATURE                                      TITLE                              DATE
- ------------------------------------------  --------------------------------------------   -------------------
<S>                                         <C>                                            <C>    
            JOSEPH D. WILLIAMS              Director                                          June 28, 1995
 .........................................
           (JOSEPH D. WILLIAMS)
 
            EDGAR A. ROBINSON               Treasurer (Principal Financial Officer)           June 28, 1995
 .........................................
           (EDGAR A. ROBINSON)
 
                W. B. COOK                  Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)         June 28, 1995
 .........................................
               (W. B. COOK)
</TABLE>


</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
</IMS-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
