JANUARY 2002 


—_ aN 
| WWW. YIL,CON 2. 3 


TOP EVENT TOP STARS 


Ex "3 
Ost 
5 


"sjonpoid sii pue WS Wd inoge U ‘AoueuBbalg ajeaijdwog Aeyw puy ‘ewashydwy 
e619 ay) yOwWs noA Moy Uo Guipuadap Alen ‘aseasig leay "a9Ue4 fun] sasney 


Gulyows :9NINUVM S.1VHINI9 NOAUNS 


AUMO} OLOGY Go} aul) 


200-HP SOUND SYSTEM: STANDARD. 


e w 20 R0 h p A F 2G AP SY PE Sees) 
Rock. Techno. Classical. Whatever you're into, you'll like the sound of this. The throaty growl of a revolutionary 
i-VTEC™ engine paired with a brand-new 6-speed manual transmission. You might just want to roll down the 


windows and take a good listen. But don’t worry. There's also a 7-speaker Acura/Bose” Music System with a 6-disc 


in-dash CD changer. Just in case. Because every hairpin turn deserves its own soundtrack. @MACURA 


You can experience digital video in a whole new way. 
Introducing Microsoft® Windows® XP, the software that 
lets you get more out of digital video than you ever 
dreamed. Just plug your video camera into your PC, 
then capture, edit, and add your own music, narration, 
and effects. Then post your movie to the Web, or e-mail 
it to share with family and friends. All easily, the very 
first time. Take what you thought your PC could do, 
and throw it to the wind. With Windows XP, you can. 
www. microsoft.com/windowsxp 


pe entium 4 cs 


4 Windows® XP with Pentium® 4 Processor Optimizations: 

Use of some features: may require Internet or network access and purchase of additional hardware. © 2001 Microsoft Corporetion. All rights 

= > _ reserved: Micmsor, Windows, and the Windols lego are either registered trademarks or tradiermiarits of Microso*t Corporation in the United States and/or other counties. 
Attain: pte ois ae inter tna logo are tradeirierks or registered trademarks of Intel Comoration or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries. 


Microsoft’ i | : 


Windows — 


ADVERTISEMENT 


Your Travel Photos 
May Be Worth More Than You Think! 


ry’ 


Beaches Turks & Caicos Resort & Spa 


Discover a World of Difference 
with the Minolta DIMAGE 7 


Taking great travel pictures and sharing them over the 
Internet is easier than ever with the Minolta DIMAGE 7, 
the award-winning camera that sets new standards in 
the anytime, anywhere magic of digital photography. 
Only Minolta, the worldwide leader in imaging technolo- 
gies, could have developed this innovative new camera. 
The revolutionary DIMAGE 7 combines the high quality 
performance of traditional 

photography with the 
immediacy and speed 
of digital technology. 
And all at a very 
affordable price. 

To celebrate the 
launch of the exciting 
Minolta DIMAGE 7, 
you are invited to enter 
The Minolta Photo 
Travel Challenge and 
win one of three exciting trips. To enter, send us your 
favorite Family Travel, World Travel, or Adventure Travel 
photos. Three lucky winners—one for each category— 
will enjoy one of these incomparable vacations. 


The Minolta DiMAGE 7 


MINOUA 


The essentials of imaging 


© Belgium Getaway 


eee 
a Mountain TravelSobek, The Adventure Company 7 


Win One of Three Exciting Getaway 


FAMILY TRAVEL PRIZE 

oO Enjoy Family Fun at Beaches Turks & Caicos Resort & Spa, the 
Caribbean’s #1 Ultra All-Inclusive Resort Twelve miles of pristine sand beaches, 

luxurious accommodations, gourmet dining, land and water sports, nay entertainment, 

and supervised children’s activities for a family of four (two g 

adults/two children) for five days/four nights at Beaches Turks 

& Caicos Resort & Spa, including roundtrip coach airfare, 


WORLD TRAVEL PRIZE 
Visit the Cultural Splendors of Belgium: Brussels and Bruges 

Explore cosmopolitan Brussels, the crossroads of Europe, and Bruges, a medieval city 
of stunning beauty and charm. This exciting European getaway 
includes two economy roundtrip tickets on Sabena 
from a US. gateway to Brussels, two weekend nights 


at the Plaza Hotel in Brussels and three weekday GS re 
nights at the Hotel Oud b 4 Bh Avnanion = 
Huis in Bruges. sabena § ) Serge Barrette 


ADVENTURE TRAVEL PRIZE 
3) Escape to Baja California with Mountain Travel*Sobek, The Adventure 

Company “Kayaking Sea of Cortez Trip” is a seven-day adventure for two including 
four days of easy sea kayaking, four nights of camping, two nights in a betel and roundtrip 
coach airfare. Spend sun-drenched days kayaking crystal 
clear waters, swimming and snorkeling with friendly sea 
lions and tropical fish, and hiking the canyons of sublimely 
beautiful Espiritu Santo Island. 


MOUN 


HERE’S HOWTO ENTER Log on to w\ 


To Enter Email or mail your favorite travel photo. Visit www.ziffda racovicaceanvnnt for information on 
how to enter online. Or mail photos to: Minolta Photo Travel Challenge, c/o D, Miller, Ziff Davis Media, 28 East 
28th Street, | 4th floor, New York, NY 10016. Include your name, mailing address, phone number and email 
address. All photos should be clearly marked Family Travel, World Travel, or Adventure Travel. 

Judging Photos will be judged by the editorial staff of Yahoo! Internet Life and 

representatives of Minolta. Winning photos will be selected based on content and quality. 

Official Rules and Regulations No purchase necessary. See wwwazifidavisinternet.com/minolta for 
official rules and regulations, or send a self-addressed, stamped envelope marked RULES to Minolta Photo Travel 
Challenge, c/o D. Miller, Ziff Davis Media, 28 East 28th Street, !4th floor, New York, NY 10016. 


With 5.2 megapixels and superb 7x optical zoom, 
the new Minolta DIMAGE 7 perfects digital photography. 


To compare cameras, look closely at the images they make. Blow them up and put ‘em side by 
side. The better camera will jump out at you. As the DIMAGE 7 does against any camera that 
dares take it on. It doesn’t just give you details, it gives you details inside details. 
5.24 megapixels teamed with a 16-element apochromatic Minolta GT 
lens produce laser-sharp resolution. The colors, which you can 
adjust before you shoot (along with contrast and exposure), 
are as saturated and vital as reality. Which leads us to 
modestly suggest: If you want to compare the MINOLTA 
DiMAGE 7 to something, try real life. 
The essentials of imaging 


() 


Www.minolfausa.com 


YOU'VE GOT TO SEE IT IN | 


She has her fathers eyes and her mother’ curls. 
But those flawless skin tones had to come from an incredible printer. 


With the new Epson Stylus Photo 820 ink jet printer, you can create frameworthy photos right at home. 


One glance and you'll see her sparkling blue eyes and every strawberry ringlet. But what you won't 
see, no matter how closely you look, is any hint of grain. That's because our 6-color photo inks, the 
same used by professionals, create images as smooth as they are brilliant. So now, the best and most 
treasured photos in your home are likely to be the ones you printed there. Additional features include: 
PRINT Image Matching™ which automatically gives you the best possible photos from PI.M- sipped 
digital cameras * 2880 x 720 dpi for incredible detail * True BorderFree™ 
printing (4"x 6" 5"x 7! 8"x 10") « Prints at a cost comparable to a photo 
lab + Fast speeds — 4" x 6" prints in 48 seconds and up to 12 PPM black 
text » Longer-lasting output with Epson lightfast papers. For a print 
sample, call 1-800-GO-EPSON or for more info, visit epson.com 


‘pson Stylus Photo 820 
$99 after a $50 mail-in rebate 


Epson, Epson Stylus, PRINT Image Matching and the PRINT Image Matching logo are trademarks registered trademarks of Seiko Epsan Corp. BorderFree is a 
trademark of Epson America, Inc. © 2001 Epson America, Inc. 


JANUARY 
2002 
VOLUME 8 
NUMBER 1 


FEATURES 


TOP OF THE NET Y-Life's sixth annual review of the year online 


OUR PICKS 
; The Person of the Year is closer to home than youd think 
56 > PLUS: The Web's most signifi llain, and fight 
Lj of the y al habit that 
| survived, and two takes on 2001's fastest-growing tech app 


‘ant event, 


ar; the trend that ruled, a controv 


| YOUR PICKS 


Your favorite dude, dame, and prophet...the sites you admired 


s, news, games, shopping, sports, and music...the 


| 59 | most popular book, concert, app, games, and 
celebrity PLUS: Our time line tracks the ups and downs 
of one roller coaster of a year 
— | PICS AND CLICKS 
| ] Strange and true. Sad and beautiful. Heartbreaking and 
62 | > hilarious. A look back at the people, places, and things that 


made it a mad, mad, mad, mad Web in 2001 


THIN IS IN 
When it comes to new monitors, sleek and slender are the key- 
words. Sure, these babies cost a pretty penny, but can you really 


on 
@o 
MZ 


put a price tag on style? 


ON THE INTERNET, NOBODY KNOWS A brave fight 
IF YOU'RE BOBBY FISCHER 

72 > At-large online, an anonymous chess whiz stuns a grandmaster 
with unconventional openers and blitzkrieg play. Long-lost 
champ, or canny poseur under cover of the Net? 


a WEB GUIDE 100 BEST SITES 
739 >) tt 
—— age 


r that won't be forgotten anytime soon. Here, once 
. are Y-Life’s 100 best sites of the 


ear, by category: 


| 80 ENTERTAINMENT & SPORTS 
83 COMPUTING & THE NET 

85 LIFESTYLE & COMMUNITY 
88 HEALTH & FITNESS 

89 LEARNING & CREATIVITY 
93 TRAVEL & RECREATION 

94 MONEY & SHOPPING 

97 NEWS & MEDIA 


ON THE COVER (From left to right)» NYC FIREFIGHTER: AP/Wide World Photos; EMINEM: James K. Burns/Retna; BRITNEY SPEARS: Andrew Eccles/Timepix; 
DIABLO: Courtesy of Blizzard.com; JULIA ROBERTS: Sante D'Orazio/Corbis Outline; BONO: Mark Seliger/Corbis Outline 


Dell | Home Desktops 


Dimension” 4300S Desktop 


Dimension’ 4300 Desktop 


Dimension’ 8200 Desktop 


Essential Performance, Great Price 

© Intel” Pentium® 4 Processor at 1.60 GHz 

© 12BMB SDRAM at 133MHz 

© 20GB* Ultra ATA/100 Hard Drive (7200 RPM) 
© 17° (15.9° viewable, 27¢p) E771 Monitor 

© 16MB ATI" Rage™ Ultra Graphics Card 

© 48X Max CD-ROM Drive 

® Integrated AD! AC’97 Audio 

‘© Harman Kardon® HK-195 Speakers 

‘© 56K* PCI Telephony Modem for Windows® 


or as low as $27/mo for 45 mos.” 
$8 No payments for 90 days 


for qualified customers. 
E-VALUE Code: 00577-501208q 


Recommended upgrade: 
© 40GB" Ultra ATA/100 Hard Drive (7200 RPM), add $20 


Dell | Standard Features 


Superior Performance, Smart Value 

© Intel” Pentium® 4 Processor at 1.70 GHz 

© 128MB SDRAM at 133MHz 

© 40GB" Ultra ATA/100 Hard Drive (7200 RPM) 
© 17° (15,9° viewable, 27dp) E771 Monitor 

© 16MB ATI* Rage™ Ultra Graphics Card 

© 48X Max CD-ROM Drive 


© 16X/10X/40X CD-RW Drive with Roxio’s Easy CD Creator® 


© SB Live! 1024V Digital Sound Card 
© Harman Kardon® HK-195 Speakers 
© 56K’ PCI Telephony Modem for Windows* 


or as low as $33/mo for 45 mos. 


$ No payments for $0 days 
for qualified customers. 


E-VALUE Code: 00577-501210 


Recommended upgrade: 
© 256MB SDRAM, add $80 


Dell | Solutions 


Cutting Edge Technology 

© Intel” Pentium® 4 Processor at 1.80 GHz 

© 256MB PCB00 RDRAM 

© 40GB Ultra ATA/100 Hard Drive (7200 RPM) 

© 17" (15.9" viewable, .27dp) E771 Monitor 

© NEW 64MB NVIDIA” GeForce2 MX Graphics Card 
with TV-Out 

© 16X Max DVD-ROM Drive 

© 16X/10X/40X CD-RW Drive with Roxio’s Easy CD Creator" 

© SB Live! 1024V Digital Sound Card 

© Harman Kardon® HK-395 Speakers with Subwoofer 

© 56K’ PCI Telephony Modem for Windows® 


or as low as $45/mo for 45 mos.’ 
$ No payments for 90 days 

for qualified customers. 

E-VALUE Code: 00577-501214 


Recommended upgrade: 
19° (18.0" vis, .26 dp) M991 Monitor, add $80 


Each DELL system shown here has a number of 
standard features, including: 


© MS® Windows® XP Home Edition 

‘© MS® Works Suite with MS® Money Standard 

© Dell Jukebox powered by MusicMatch 

© 6 Months America Online Membership Included’ 

© Dimension” Desktops shown here include 
1-Yr At-Home Service; 1-Yr Limited Warranty; 1-Yr 24x7 
Phone Support 

® Inspiron” Notebooks shown here include 1-Yr Mail-In Service, 
1-Yr Limited Warranty,’ 1-Yr 24x7 Phone Support 


Software and Accessories 


* Epson® C80 Color Printer, $179 

* Canon” 1240U scanner, $199 

‘* Lexmark” All In One Print Center, $199 
HP® 318 Camera, $199 


Service and Support 


How about some peace of mind to accompany your new 
Dell” system? 


Dimension” Desktop Service Upgrades: 
© Upgrade Dimension™ Desktops with 1-Yr Ltd Warranty: 
1-Yr At-Home Service’ and 1-Yr 24x7 Phone Support 
3-Yr Ltd Warranty; 3-Yr At-Home Service’ and 
Lifetime 24x7 Phone Support, add $119 (4300S and 
4300 series) or add $139 (8200 series) 


Inspiron™ Notebook Service Upgrades: 
© Upgrade Inspiron” Notebooks with 1-Yr Ltd Warranty? 
and 1-Yr Mail-In Service to: 
3-Yr Lid Warranty? 3-Yr Next-Business-Day 
On-Site Service' and 24x7 Lifetime Phone Support, 
add $219 


Everything you'd ever want in a PC starts right here. Whether you're looking for high-performance multimedia to take 


on the road, or a versatile desktop that's perfect for home, Dell can custom-build a solution that is just right for you. And by 


making PCs to order and shipping direct instead of using a middleman retailer, Dell is able to give you the very latest 


technology at a low price, all backed by an award-winning service and support team that knows your PC like it's their own. So 


go online or call today, and discover a better way of finding, buying, and owning the perfect computer. A better way that's easy. 


Easy to buy. Easy to own. Easy as DS@LL 


Order the easy way. Visit www.dell4me.com or call toll free 1-800-822-6039. 


Keep your E-VALUE CODE 


handy! i's the easiest way to 


@ 


VALUE 


find and build your pertect PC 
at the lowest price ~ when you 


docide to order 


1 | Home 


Inspiron” 8100 Notebook 


The Ultimate MultiMedia Notebook 

‘ Mobile Intel® Pentium? Ill Processor at 1.2GHz-M featuring 
Intel® SpeedStep™ Technology 

© 15° Ultra XGA TFT Display 

© 256MB SDRAM at 133MHz 

© 30GB Ultra ATA Hard Drive 

© Fixed Internal 8X Max DVD-ROM Drive 

¢ 32MB DDR NVIDIA” GeForce2 Go” 4X AGP 3D" Video 

© Sound Blaster® Compatible Sound with Wavetable 

© 59WHr Li-lon Battery with ExpressCharge™ Technology 

¢ Internal S6K° Fax Modem 

© MS® Windows” XP Home Edition, MS* Works Suite 2001 

© 1-Yr Limited Warranty’ 1-Yr Mail-In Service 

© 6 Months of American Online™ Membership Included’ 


ene » Ask us about no payments for 
90 days for qualified customers 
E-VALUE Code: 00575-801222m 


Recommended upgrades: 

© 2nd Bay 8X CD-RW Drive, add $179 

« Intel® Pentium® Ill Processor at 1.2GHz, add $149 

© 3-¥r Limited Warranty? 3-Yr Mail-In Service, 
3-Yr 24x7 Phone Support, add $119 


performance anywhere. 


Welcome to the ultimate road show. |'l| lay it all on the 
line right now: I'm the most complete multimedia package 
ever offered in a notebook. | am the Dell Inspiron 8100, 
and I'm a wonder of portable technology. From graphics 
capability to storage capacity, |’m top of the line. And since I'm customizable 
to suit your needs, I'll always be perfect for exactly what you want me to 


do. So go online or call today, and find out how easy it is to take desktop 


Dell PCs use genuine Microsoft® Windows® 
www.microsoft.com/piracy/howtotell 


50 ROGER EBERT > CRITICAL EYE Ebert to Internet; Oh, Grow Up! In our chang- 
ing world, the Net has an important job to do. Let’s get out of its way 
——— 72 = = oS eae| 
52 ANGELA GUNN > NET ETHICS Are Spammers E-Terrorists? There's a way to deal | 
| | with unwanted e-mail that won't slow down the Net 
srl BB ees ee | 
54 ROBERT SCHEER > PRIVACY WATCH Yep, I Support a National 1D Card 
It won't do much to combat terrorism, but it will enhance our privacy 
; DEPARTMENTS 


22)| MESSAGE CENTER > LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Our readers chat back 


25) CLICK! Meet the proposed patron saint of the Internet, get rid of your stuff 
| without dealing with an auction, switch e-mail addresses with no hassles 
| sDehceeen = 
“34 INCREDIBLY USEFUL SITES Tip off the cops, get that job, find fine china, 
| read what they think about the Middle East in the Middle East, hitch a ride 
| 38 OLD WAY/NET WAY Finding and buying the best kids’ books, coming up 
| with New Year's resolutions, comparison-shopping for health insurance | 


40 || STYLE Find online fashion advice, stay toastily chic this winter 


CONTENT New live albums from the Doors: 
world; and a new e-book documents America’s 


ature Isle expands the 
darkest hour firsthand 


e: 


COOL TOOLS A clever way to get around the hood, a cool new 
camera, a digital photo-viewer, and the fiber handheld 


WEB USER Sort out “featured sites” from the rest of a search engine's results, 
| see what's new with AOL 7.0, keep e-mail accounts straight, and more 


NET YEAR'S RESOLUTIONS Repeat after us: I will not Google all potential 


dates..and other tips for a happy, healthy year online 8Y MODERN HUMORIST 


PRETTY STRANGE ‘Turning into Elvis, rail buffs in the buff, happy 


potties, life as a monobrow, and caring (or not) about Gary Baum 


14 Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


© @ FOLZE CO2 NOx 


compared to conventional gasoline engines 


The gasoline/electric hybrid Prius. It drives efficiently even when you don't. It combines a super-efficient gas engine 
with an advanced electric motor that never needs to be plugged in. It idles Less, so it wastes less energy. It even comes with 
available GPS navigation. AlL of which makes Prius a more intelligent way to drive. So you can concentrate on other things. 


HE FEELING. TOYOTA, 52/45MPG PRIUS | 


some Northeastern 


ne rest of the country. For more 


information, 


| Playing Favorites 


F YOU'RE A REGULAR AT YIL.COM, YOU PROB- | 
ably already know about our URL guide—that | 
astoundingly useful page on the site that lets 

| you follow any link in this magazine without | 

having to type so much as a.com. Well, thanks to 
| some very smart people, we've taken the URL 
guide to the next level, Dig the concept, if you will: 
You arrive at the URL page, click a single link, 
and—whomp!—all of the bookmarks from this is 
sue appear in your Favorites list, broken down into 
folders by section. What could be easier? Answer: 
Nothing. Nothing could be easier than this cool 
little Java gizmo, Just go to yil.com/issues, click on 
the issue with the links you want, and then hit the 
“Click here to get the links” button. Try it today; 
enjoy the links for a lifetime! 


ever’s most relevant today. [yil.com/buzz] 


> FORWARD/JOKE OF THE DAY > 


gerel. The D 


in Awards. Cat poetry. noi. 


16 | Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


NET RADIO STATION OF THE board. G 
~__| DAY > Classic rock, Cool jazz. can’t swim. Visit daily, lyil.com/freebies] 
Supermodel wisdom. Twisted Bone-crunching death metal. The news 
Seuss. The evil Bill Gates. Dog dog- in French, Police bulletins. Barnyard INCREDIBLY USEFUL SITE OF 
Hockey call-in shows. If it’s ae THE DAY > The life-improving, 


be. Eee Kb Pig ot Pag 1 Gib. 


The Net—much like the Dude in The Big Lebowski—abides. It's been a rough year (see pages 56-67), but the Internet is still thriving, 
and we're here to help you through it with such guides as our 100 Best Sites for 2002" (page 79). Speaking of lists, we've gathered 
our favorites at yil.com/lists. But wait, there's more: In print you got “50 Most Incredibly Useful Sites"; the Web site hosts 101 of ‘em. 
The magazine brought you “America’s 100 Most Wired Colleges”; the Web site has 200 wired colleges as well as listings for smaller 
schools and two-year institutions—you get the idea: bonus content galore. Some of the gems you may have missed include the “10 
Radio Stations No Browser Should Be Without" (have you been listening to Houston's KPFT?), the "15 Worst Net Events" (Carnie Wil- 
son's stomach-surgery Webcast—gastrilicious!), or our most wired small towns (we're talking to you, Glasgow, Montana). Finally, if 
you long for the simpler Festivus of a carefree bygone era, you can wax nostalgic with our list of “100 Best Sites for 2001." (Sigh.) 


t 
ie 
Candy net 


features columns i 


PY URLGuide o« 


aS 
e 


The URL Index is the fastest way to get 

from our magazine to one of the sites we 

=— OS INTERNET LIFE mention in it. We're handy when you have 
Lordof the paper edition of Y-Life next to the 

the Rings computer... and even when you don't! 


We've indexed all the Web sites we 
mention in this issue (Volume 7, Number 
12) in section-by-section, page-by-page 
order. Happy exploring! 


Internet Explorer users; Wouldn't it be 
easier if all these links were right there in 
your bookmarks? Now they can be, 


AILY NET BUZZ > Every morning, PRETTY STRANGE SITE OF THE ASK THE SURF GURU > Got 

teve Knopper scours the Web, then @ DAY > Cat albums. Am I All Your =| questions? Take them to our resident 
assembles the ultimate briefing for your day Base or Not? God Hates Barbers. Poke font of Web wisdom. lyil.com/gurul 
online. Whether it’s the latest on an over- the Bunny. Your Mama. You want it 
seas crisis or vicious infighting in an’N Syne weird? We make it your way, every day. Es FREEBIES, BARGAINS & CONTESTS 
newsgroup, Steve will point you to what- lyil.com/strangel > One day it’s free shampoo, a deal 


on sports bras, and a chance to win a surf- 


u're a bald guy who 


Office torture ideas, Bagpipe humor. audible, someone's probably Webcasting sites you love. Learn about wine, ace chem- 
Need we say more? lyil.com/forward] it. Find out here. lyil.com/radiol istry, plan a trip, and more. lyil.com/usefull 


EDITORIAL 


Editor in Chief Barry Golson 
Executive Editor Larry Smith 
Design Director Gail Ghez: 
Managing Editor Maria Carmi 
Depts. Editor Ron Bel Bruno Senior Staff Editor Scott Alexander Tech. Editor Don Willmott 
Senior Editors Rob Bernstein, Bilge Ebiri, Cree McCree 
Director of Photography Gail Henry 
Style Director Warren Christopher 
Deputy Art Director José G. Fernandez 
Associate Art Directors Bobby Martin Jr., Trent Johnson 
Senior Associate Editor Jeremy Caplan 
Contributing Editors Laura Fisher Kaiser, David Sheff 
Online Editor Josh Robertson 
Copy Chief Kathleen Berger Copy Editor Cathy Mizgerd 
Research Editor Sharon L. Festinger 
Associate Photo Editor Mike Mandel 
Assistant Editor Meaghan O' 
Assistant to the Editor in Chief Marshall Vickness 
Assistant to the Style Editor Carly Buszta 
Art/Production Assistant Karen Lew 
Contributing Writers Alan Cohen, Roger Ebert, Angola Gunn, Steve Knopper, 
Charles C. Mann, Charles Pappas, Douglas Rushkoff, Robert Scheer 
Design Consultant Neal T. Boulton 


Ziff Davis Publishing Inc. 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Robert F. Callahan 
Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer Bart W. Catalane 
Senior Executive Vice President, Publishing Operations Tom McGrade 
Executive Vice President Peter Longo 
Executive Vice President Stephen D, Moylan 
Executive Vice President and 
Editorial Director (Editor in Chief, PC Magazine) Michael J. Miller 
Senior Vice President (Circulation) Charles Mast 
Vice Presidents Ken Beach (Corporate Sales), John Dodge (News), 
Barry Golson (Editor in Chief, Yahoo! Internet Life), 
Kim Hoover (Chief Information Officer), 
Charles Lee (Integrated Solutions), 
Aimee D. Levine (Corporate Communications), 
Eric Lundquist (Editor in Chief, eWEEK), 
Bill Machrone (Technology), David Mullen (Controller), 
Michael Perkowski (Ziff Davis Market Experts), 
Tonia E. Ries (Marketing), 
Carolyn Schurr Levin (General Counsel, 
Dan Schwartz (Publisher, Ziff Davis Smart Business), 
Sloan Seymour (Publishing Director, Baseline), 
Tom Steinert-Threlkeld (Editor-in-Chief, Baseline), 
Dale Strang (Game Group), Stephen Sutton (Internet Audience Development), 
Stephen Veith (Publisher, CIO Insight), Jason Young (Internet Advertising Sales) 


Ziff Davis Media Inc. 

Executive Vice President and General Manager, eTesting Labs Mark Van Name 
Chief Technology Officer (Internet Operations) Alan Bourassa 
Director, Manufacturing Carlos Lugo 
Director, International Christin Lawson 


Contact anyone on this masthead via e-mail using firstname_lastname@ziffdavis.com 
| Subscription information: 800.950.0484 Editorial phone number: 212.503.4790 

| Copyright © 2001 Ziff Davis Media Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

| Yahoo! is a trademark of Yahoo! Inc. 

Internet Life is a trademark of Ziff Davis Publishing Holdings Inc. 

| Printed in the U.S.A. 


BUSINESS 


Publisher Diane M. Silberstein New York 212.503.4750 
Associate Publisher John Weisgerber New York 212.503.4715 
Marketing Director Paige McCrensky New York 212.503.4662 
Promotion Directors Suzanne Krauss New York 212.503.4708 

Denise Miller New York 212.503.4456 
Business Director Cathy Bendoff Chicago 630.382.9029 
Business Manager Rita Hardial New York 212.503.5618 
New York Account Managers Jennifer Musillo 212.503.4784 
Rebecca Woodard 212.503.4710 
New York/New England Account Manager Laura Ryan 212.503.4348 
Midwest Sales Manager Molly Livermore Chicago 312.552.3207 
Detroit Account Manager John Irvine Detroit 248.359.2903 
Southeast Sales Manager Ed Kobylus Atlanta 770.434.0372 
Southern California Sales Managers Casie Schlereth Irvine,CA 949.852.6650 
Sara Laird Los Angeles 949.494.1122 
Account Manager Christina Babbits San Francisco 415.547.8827 
Texas/Mountain Regional Manager Lucinda Weikel Dallas 214.306.2405 
Research Associate Eileen Lennon New York 212.503.4620 
Marketing Associate Amy Feezor New York 212.503.4672 
Executive Assistant to the Publisher and Associate Publisher 
Heather Kuhn New York 212.503.4733 
Advertising Coordinator Laura Qi New York 212.503.4335 
Advertising Production Manager Ivis Fun ely New York 212.503.6021 
Advertising Production Coordinator Kelly Redznak New York 212.503.6028 
Business Development Associate Lindsay Bleier San Francisco 415.547.8563 
Sales Associate Michele Itzkowitz New York 212.503.4809 
Sales Coordinators Carrie Froeter (Chicago), Kathleen McDonald (Detroit) 


Circulation 
Consumer Marketing Director Tracy Schultz New York 212.503.5735 
Single-Copy Sales Director Robert Kerekes New York 212.503.5379 
Internet and Partnership Marketing Director Chris Wilkes New York 212.503.5752 


Advertising Offices 
28 East 28th St., New York, NY 10016 205 N. Michigan Ave., Suite 311, Chicago, IL 60601 
26400 Lahser, Suite 322, Southfield, MI 48034 11766 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90025 
50 Beale St, Floor 13, San Francisco, CA 94105 
Tiff Davis Media Inc. 


Subscription Information 
For subscription service questions, address changes, or to order, please contact us at: Web: 
serviceyil.com (customer service) or subscribeyyil.com (orders); phone: U.S. and Canada 
800.950.0484 or 850.682.7624, elsewhere 303.604.7445; mail: Yahoo! Internet Life, P.O. Box 
53380, Boulder, CO 80322-3380 (please include your mailing label with any correspondence, 
as it contains information that will expedite processing); fax: U.S. and Canada 850.683.4094, 
elsewhere 303.604.0518; e-mail (please type your full name and the address at which you 
subscribe; do not send attachments): subhelp@yil.com. Subscriptions: The one-year (12-issue) 
subscription rate is $1997. Outside the US., add $16 per year for surface mail, U.S. funds only. 
Please allow 3 to 6 weeks before receiving your first issue as well as for any changes to take 
place on an existing subscription. Back issues: Back issues are $8 each in the U.S., $9 each 
elsewhere (subject to availability), Prepayment is required. Make checks payable to Yahoo! 
Internet Life. Mail your requests to: Back Issues, Ziff Davis Publishing Inc., P.O. Box 53131, 
Boulder, CO 80322-3131. Mailing lists: We sometimes make lists of our customers available to 
mailers of goods and services that may interest you. If you do not wish to receive their mail- 
ings, please write to us at: Yahoo! Internet Life, P.O. Box 53380, Boulder, CO 80322-3380. 


Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. For permission to reuse mate- 
rial in this publication (or on this Web site) or to use our logo, contact Ziff Davis Media's Rights 
and Permissions Manager, Olga Gonopolsky, at olga_gonopolsky@ziffdavis.com or by phone at 
212.503.5438 or fax at 212.503.5420. For reprints, contact Reprint Services at 800.2177874, 


(OUR NAME What does this magazine have to do with 
Yahoo.com? Though we're linked by a licensing partnership, 


¥-Lifeis editorially independent. 
ily between our site and Yaho 


‘only half the story. Our Web site [wn 
ily what the magazine does monthly—it's yo! 
je to what's happening on the Web. You'll | finde ex- 


ns sof numerous articles, an archive 
sic r-out Site Address 
tures | including Net Buzz; 


OUR WEB SITE How does this magazine work with our are and Contes! the Incredibly 
es interest but need (Pee We > site? Very nicely. Ifyou read Y-Lifesolely once ‘re Useful Site o! ‘the Day; ar inge Site of the 


Day). To 0 stay ‘up- to-the-min| out what's going on, 
subscribe t to our dai e-mail news| tter by sending e- mail to 
on-yild@zdemail.2 lists.com. 


18 Yahoo! Internet Life » January 2002 


Easy CD Save memories forever. Burn all your photography to CD then create interactive photo albums and slide 
Creator shows, complete with music with Easy CD Creator® 5 Platinum, from Roxio. The best selling CD burning 
PLATINUM on software in the world. You can even finish them off with personalized jewel cases for each disc. To learn more 
about burning vinyl, MP3s, digital photos and more, hit roxio.com. Mac” users check out Roxio’s Toast” 5. 


we Y ~s 
ad a Now Windows” XP compatible. 


‘Burn Yeur World On COt 


DIGITAL VIDEO 
DATA BACKUP 
ORIGINAL MUSIC 
DIGITAL PHOTO 


|| mps 


© 2001 Roxio, Inc. All rights reserved. Roxio, the Roxio logo and the Burning CD logo are trademarks of Roxio, Inc., which may be registered in some jurisdictions, Toast and Easy CD Creator are registered trademarks of Roxio, Inc. in the 
United States and may be registered in some other jurisdictions. Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. Mac is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc.. registered in the U.S. and 
other countries, All other trademarks used are owned by their respective owners. Our software is designed to assist you in reproducing material in which you own the copyright or have the legal right to copy from the copyright owner, 


20 


EDITOR’S NOTE 


WELCOME TO THIS YEAR'S TWO-FOR-ONE ISSUE, IN 
which we look back at 2001 with our “Top of the Net” 
selections and look ahead to 2002 with our “100 Best 
Sites.” Know what? Between the two years, if we had to 
vote fora favorite we'd take our chances on '02. The other 
guy pretty much wore us down. 

As I was growing up, two dates always loomed in my 
imagination: 1984, with its implications of Orwellian 
conformity, permanent war, and 
Big Brother; and 2001, with its 


promise of Kubrickian technol- 
ogy, prosperity, and transform- 
ing discovery. Now that both dates 
have come and gone, something 
curious strikes me: It happened 
exactly the other way around, In 
the '8os the pendulum swung to- 
ward personal freedom, while a 
surge of innovative technology 
gave us a time of relative peace, 
prosperity—and greed. Mean- 
while, the unforgettable 2001 
snapped our prosperity streak, 
forced some hard questions about 
technology, and gave us a whiff of Big Brother with an 
open-ended war on terrorism—and maybe our privacy. 
But people will be people, and whatever else hap- 


ed numbers 


pened in 2001, you went online in inc 
for the same serious and silly reasons you always have. 
Yes, you still searched the Web for the barely legal Brit- 
ney Spears and for barely legal music. Yes, you still 
IM‘ your pals, outbid each other for that tchotchke on 


eBay, and e-mailed around the dumbest jokes, many of 


them now Flash animated. (See? Technology marches 
on.) But, as we chronicled in our “9.11” issue, you also 
reached out to one another in unprecedented ways to deal 
with a changed world. That's why our Person of the Year 
is...well, turn to the feature on page $6 and find out. 
Looking ahead to what has to be a better year, we've also 
compiled our annual list of lists—the 100 sites we think 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


The Net in a Time of Crisis 


Maliatever master is 
elseit idtsppened 


you cent online 
in increased 
numbers for the 
same serious and 
reasons 
you sales have 


do it best of all. Under the sharp eye of senior editor CREE 
MCCREE, contributing writer ALAN COHEN gathered our 
choices, taking into account many, many readers’ nomina- 
tions and much, much kibitzing by our staff. We take this 
li 


rying it as their ultimate citation for the coming year. 


eriously because the winning sites take it seriously, car- 


Then to cleanse your palate, turn to “On the Internet, 
Nobody Knows If You're Bobby Fischer,” an investigation 
of a news item that caught our 


eye: At least one chess grand- 


ire that an anony- 


mous online player was actually 
the mysterious, reclusive—and, 
to judge from reports, thoroughly 
twisted—ches: 


s legend. Is he or 
isn't he? Freelance writer BRAD 
WIENERS, a longtime Wired 
staffer, may not know for sure, 
but he tells a wonderful tale that’s 
more than just a virtual chase 
for the chess prodigy—it’s an 
exploration of how identity 
works in the Information Age. 

As I said, this is the issue 
in which we click both back and forward. (Well, we 
are our readers’ browsers, so to speak.) A lot of the credit 
this month goes to departments editor RON BEL BRUNO, 
doing his fifth end-of-year stint, with an able assist 
from senior editor BILGE EBIRI. Much of what we saw 
delighted us, some of it appalled us, and we're happy to 
tell you which was which. Tough times can be interest- 
ing times, and they always lead to better times. Let’s 
click a Champagne glass to that. 


Ei Cel 


BARRY GOLSOA, EDITOR IN CHIEF 


JAY GULLIXSON 


To:sign-up for 


= MSN Broadband, call 
—— : : (800) FREE MSN. 


Get-online 


with VISN, 


Ss 


( E-mail 
Invite 15 friends to dinner. 


/ 


Rf 


Shopping 
Buy festive centerpiece, 


es - 
Find roof-raising ~ me _— J ~ 


dance tunes. 4, E-mail 
Online Contacts Un-invite 15 friends. \ 
Recelve “Hunky Kurtis 
Is in town.” 


m if : 
® 


With MSNF you'll see just how useful 
the Internet can be. Built with advanced 
Microsoft® technology and tuned for 
Broadband, MSN has the most popular 
e-mail and search; plus shopping, 
music, and top-ranked finance. MSN 
has everything you need to get on the 
Web and everything you want when 
you get there. Visit msn.com today. 


More Useful Everyday 


Qa. 


z 


~ QO INTERNET LIFE 


MESSAGE 


(‘>»iIC E'N T ER 


WHO SAYS PRINT ISN'T INTERACTIVE? 
To the editor: Write to yilreadermail@ziffdavis.com 


DEEP COVER 

When I saw 
your November 
issue, it took my 
breath away, The 
day the tragedy 
occurred I re- 
ceived an e-mail 


with the same 


words: “Are you 
OK?” It was from a former high 
school classmate. Then came an 
other—my sister this time. We 
seldom talk, but she had been 


crying when she heard the news. 


Another e-mail: an acquaintance 
froma message board I frequent. 
Suddenly, the world got very small 
and comforting, Strangers online, 
when they found out I was from 
New York, sent me electronic cards 
of caring and cheer: “Are you OK?” 
I'm doing much better, thanks to 
those small three words. 
MARIAN PAPPACENO 
@worldnet.att.net 


The November 'o1 cover was 
incredible. When my copy ar- 
rived, I picked up the magazine 
and stared at those words for a 
few minutes. As a student at a 
small college in the middle of 
nowhere in Colorado, I haven't 
been closely affected by this 
tragedy, However, when | saw 
the simple words “Are you OK?” 
on your cover, something inside 
me was deeply moved. Thanks 

for a great article, too. 
CARL SUNDERMANN 
@yahoo.com 


I found the November cover of 
Y-Life one of the most stunning 


and evocative graphics I’ve ever 


seen in the print medium. Kudos 

to the person(s) who came up 
with that wonderful concept. 

"JOHN E. FOOTE 

@citcom.net 


I pore through about seven 
newspapers—and just as many 
online—every day. Add to that 
about 30 different magazines each 
month, Consequently, I rarely get 
worked up about any publication. 
Until now. The connected themes 
of how the Internet affected the 
events of September 11, how 


the Net might change as a result 


of the carnage that Tuesday, and 
how technology might be used 
to prevent similar catastrophes 


were all timely, nonexploitative, 


and hugely fascinating, Con- 
gratulations to all, 
ROGER KETTYLS 


@self-counsel.com 


FEAR FACTOR 
“The Terrorists & the Net” [No- 
vember '01, page 86] notes that 


terrorist organizations are using 


advanced encryption technology 
and the power of the Internet to 


send secret messages to one an- 


other, What shocks me is that they 


could download top-of-the-line 
encryption programs for free, and 
that those programs could be found 
right in our own “cyber” yard. 
PAUL VOIGT 
@aol.com 
THE FAL-GUY 
Angela Gunn [Net Ethics, No- 
vember '01, page 62] writes: “The 
difference between Falwell and 


the terrorists? Not religious 
extremism, not the desire to 


legislate morality, not hateful 


22 Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


intent. Only degree.” 
Wrong! While Rey. Falwell 
madea serious error in judgment 


(linking the attacks of Septem- 


ber 11 to our nation’s turning from 
God), to his credit, he made a 
prompt and thorough apology. 
Osama bin Laden has not only 
failed to apologize for the attacks 
ut has subsequently released 
video footage praising the hijack- 
ers and continues to call foran Is- 
amic holy war against the U.S.A. 
For Gunn to draw parallels 
between Falwell and bin Laden 
is horrific—even more so than 
Falwell’s misspoken words. I find 
Gunn's comments far more hate- 
ful than anything Falwell has said. 


Perhaps she should take a good, 
long look in the mirror before 
equating Falwell and bin Laden. 


GLENN PRICE | 


@hotmail.com 


Angela Gunn responds: Sorry, Glenn, 
but that wasn't some momentary “mis- 
speak” — Falwell wasnt just blithering 
along and out popped some tiny Freudian 
slip. He said it, he expanded on it, and 
until CNN et al. brought down a 
Airestorm of public opinion, he stood by 
it, at which point he claims he didn't 


do it (“would never blame any human 
being except the terrorists”). 
Ive yet to read any amendment to 


SITE GAG 


the New Testament in which Falwell’ 


given a bye on those well-known qual- 
ifications for casting the first stone, Hes 
an irresponsible hate-monger, and I 
|_ pray for the spiritual well-being of any- 
one who turns from the Bibles message 
of humility and love to listen to his 
wicked, callous demagoguery. In other 
words, I stand by what I said—no re- 
grets whatsoever, Thanks for writing. 


JUDGING JERRY 

With regard to Angela Gunn's 
comments on Jerry Falwell in your 
November issue, she hit the nail 
on the head. She put into words 
exactly how I feel about his com- 
ments. How dare he! I work about 
eight blocks from what was the 
WTC, What I have seen here 
since September 11 is people do- 
ing everything they can to help 
each other and behaving in a truly 
godly way. We don’t need Falwell 
to tell us how to do that. He's just 

kicking us when we're down. 
A LIBERAL, FEMINIST, 
PRO-CHOICE NEW YORKER 
@usa.net 


RELOAD: Riedel Crystal decanters 
[December ’o1, page 121] are avail- 


able at www.winel s.com 


| You talkin’ to us? We hope so! Write to 


us at yilreadermail@ziffdavis.com. 


WCAN T GET BAcK To You?” 


CARTOON © 2002 MICK STEVENS FROM CARTOONBANK.COM. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 


Rock Star 


: you always 
S wanted to be 


ie, Introducing MusicPlayground, a one-of-a-kind 
~~ interactive music experience. Play along with your 
~~ 4 favorite songs. That's right — Play! Even if you've 
never played an instrument before! 


You can instantly — magically — play guitar, bass, 
drums along with your 
favorite songs. Even sing 
without missing a beat! 


Start by loading some very 
special software onto your 
Windows® 98/Me PC, plug —_—Plug in your virtual instruments 
in one or more of our virtual —_ and play in sync with the EKG 
instruments into spikes on the screen. 
your computer’s USB ports, and get ready 

to take a rhythm ride that’s more reality 
than virtual. 


Our patented technology is at the heart of 
MusicPlayground. Start the MusicPlayground 
Player software, choose your song and 
PLAY guitar or bass using your V-Pick™. 


ae 
Z| 
music?>/4y around 
Simply match your strumming to the on 


screen rhythm guide. For you drummers, check out 


Our V-Stix™ our V-Stix™. 
turn you into 
a virtual Sweats If you play a real instrument, better still. You can 
% drummer! | plug them in too! Suddenly, musicians and non- 


muscians can jam together. 


Visit www.MusicPlayground.com for everything 
you need to get started. 


Our V-Pick™ 
turns anything 
into a virtual 
guitar! 


Yeah, this really does change everything. 


music >l4y ground 


DON’T JUST LISTEN. PLAY. 


© 2002 MusicPlayground 


www.MusicPlayground.com 


SONY. 


DREAM ON 


Recording video isn’t just a point and shoot proposition. You've got to make sure there's enough battery power. And enough light. 
You've got to hold the camera steady. Or, you've got to get a Sony. Only Sony Handycam" camcorders have Worry-Free Recording™ —a 
virtual safety net of features that ensures the best possible video, in virtually any situation. For instance, our Infolithium® rechargeable 
battery with AccuPower™ meter lets you know exactly how much recording time you have left. And it’s on every Hi8™, Digital8®, and 
MiniDV Handycam camcorder. Because every moment is too important to miss. www.sony.com/di 


Handycam. 


You'll also get great video at your third-grader’s recital. 


1D} Sony Electronics inc, All rights reserved. Repraductions in whole or part without written permission is prohibited. Sony, 
Sony logo, Digitalé, Hi8, Oream On, Handycam, Worty-Free Recording, InfoLithium, and AccuPower are trademarks of Sony. 


IMAGE OF SAINT ISIDORE: WINDOW OF ST. MATTHEW CHURCH, CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA/COURTESY OF CNS/THE CROSIERS. 


People, Places, and Trends on the Net 


SURFERS 


Before television and the yellow pages, and 


even before the Renaissance delivered us 


into civilization, there was Etymologies, the 


first encyclopedia of universal knowledge 

in effect, the Internet of its day. So im- 
pre. 
by Isidore, archbishop of Seville (560-636), 


ive was this magnum opus, written 


that its author was canonized. Fast-forward 
to 1999: The revered cleric is floated as the 
possible patron saint of the Internet. But 
actually securing such a lofty title can be 
tough. Rumors fly. Tongues wag, You need 
papal support, and that takes time. 

When the Holy See announced in No- 
vember that the theme of this year’s World 
Communications Day will be “Internet: A 
New Forum for Proclaiming the Gospel,” 
Isidore’s chances improved. The Church still 
won't discuss his wired status. But it’s quite 
possible that when Pope John Paul IT starts. a 


ssion, he recites the “F 


surfing s 


fore Logging On to the Internet” found at 
Catholic Online [catholic.org/isidore/prayer.html, 


which humbly requests “the intercession of 
Saint Isidore, bishop and doctor, during our 
journeys through the Internet.” The Vatican's 
IT team must be relieved. MEAGHAN O'NEILL 


RING IN THE NEW YEAR WITH SG MAKING RESOLUTIONS OR TRACKING 
LESS CLUTTER AND E CASH: HEALTH INSURANCE? YOU HAVE 
HERE'S THE SCOOP ON FOUR HANDY AROUND THE GLOBE. CHECK OUT A CHOICE: THE AULD LANG SYNE 
‘SITES FOR UNLOADING STASH OUR INCREDIBLY US! OR THE NEW, NET WAY 


wwwyil.com +January 2002 25 


5 


Click! acound the 


| 


JUDGMENT DAY > 


Is your favorite Yahoo! or MSN group 
unsuitable for minors? You may find out 
soon. AOL, MSN, and Yahoo! have all 
agreed to abide by the Internet Content 
Rating Association's voluntary Web con- 
tent-rating system. The industry-based 
ICRA developed the system to classify 
sites based on violent or sexual themes, 
explicit language, and depiction of alco- 
hol and drug use. The Big Three have 
agreed to rate their sites and subsites ac- 
cordingly, with the hope that sites from 
other sources will follow suit. Parents can 
customize their Netscape or Explorer 
browsers to filter out content based on 
any set of ICRA criteria. 


NO NEW TAXES—REALLY 

Surfers buying big-ticket items online, 
had reason to be thankful during the 
holiday season: Congress renewed its 
generous ban on Internet taxes, effec- 
tive through November 2003. Better en- 
joy the reprieve while it lasts, though. 
Lawmakers are working to develop 
federal sales-tax guidelines to go into 
effect after the two-year extension ends. 


LET'S CALL THE WHOLE 
THING OFF 

A judge recently dismissed all charges 
against Oliver Jovanovic, a Columbia 


University doctoral candidate accused of 


holding captive and sexually torturing a 
woman he met online. Jovanovic, con- 
victed in 1998 for kidnapping, assault, 
and sexual abuse, served almost two years 
in prison before the New York State 
Supreme Court reversed the decision— 
in part because of e-mail between the 
defendant and his accuser that had pre- 
viously been deemed inadmissible. (In 
‘the December 1998 story, “A Tortured 


FOCUS: BIOTERRORISM 


In the wake of bioterrorist attacks, Net information resources proliferated. Here's a 
sampling. For more anthrax-specific Web resources, visit yil.com/anthrax. 


The Washington Post Bioterrorism Page 
[washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/nation/ 
specials/attacked/bioterrorisml The facts. 
)The Bioweaponeers [cryptome.org/ 
bioweap.htm] Who invented these new 
biological weapons, and why? 

Anthrax: Cold War Leaves a Deadly An- 
thrax Legacy [phaster.com/unpretentious/ 
uzbekistan_anthrax.htmll New York Times 
reporter Judith Miller's take on the Russ- 


ian roots of an anthrax threat. 

Center for Civilian Biodefense Strategies) 
[www.hopkins-biodefense.org] Author- 
itative articles from the Johns Hopkins 
University Schools of Public Health and 
Medicine. 

Smallpox [whale.to/vaccines/smallpox. 
html] A global effort eradicated this in- 
credibly deadly disease. Now terrorists} 
threaten to reintroduce it as a weapon. 


26 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


SUITABLE FOR ALL AUDIENCES? AOL, MSN, and Yahoo! join the effort to rate Web content. 


Case” by Robin Shamburg, Y-Life published 
the e-mail, raising questions about Jo- 


vanovic’s guilt. Read itat yil.com/jovanovic.) 
Prosecutors decided against a retrial be- 
cause the plaintiff was not emotionally 
prepared to testify again. 


NUKE SITES NUKED 

If you want to know where the nearest 
nuclear power plant is, don't count on 
the Web helping you out. The Feds have 
removed such details from government 
Web sites since the September 11 terror 
attacks. Much of the information will still 
be available from government offices, 
where terrorists are far less likely to go 
in search of such intelligence. 


IT'S BAAAAAAAAAAAACK 


In the months following the September 
11 attacks, Americans logged on in record 
numbers, 


eking everything from bioter- 


rorism reports to Taliban-bashing. Ac- 
cording to Nielsen/NetRatings, more 
than 115 million surfers connected to the 
Net during October alone (a hefty 15 
percent increase over October 2000 
traffic), deflating speculations on the 
downturn in Internet use. 

THE CLICK AROUND THE NET CLIQUE: SCOTT 


ALEXANDER, ROB BERNSTEIN, MEAGHAN O'NEILL. 
WRITE TO CLICK AT CLICK@ZIFFDAVIS.COM 


DEBORAH DAVIS/GETTYONE 


Always comparison shop. 


Need to pick up a few things? Hit Yahoo! Shopping. Search 
Shopping, Auctions, Classifieds and Warehouse all at the same 
time. It's a regular shopping buffet. shopping.yahoo.com 


powered by 
COMPAQ 


YaHoo! 
Shopping 


~~ . 


’ 


a. 


Click! acound the net 


ave! 


_____ Smart Moves.. 


GOODWILL GESTURE 

After treating them like steroid-laden 
urine samples in 2000, the International 
Olympic Committee is finally showing 
online sports journalists some respect. 
Fifty dot-com media organizations have 
been granted credentials to the 2002 
Winter Games in Salt Lake City. 


POP GOES THE WEASEL 
The FTC is cracking down on the owner 
of more than 5500 domain names—in- 


iations on the name Britney 


Spears. An FTC report claims these sites 
launch pop-up ads so persistent they of- 


ten force users to reboot their computers. 


ONE FOR THE BOOKS 
San Francisco's Board of Supervisors is 
flouting federal law by refusing to install 


Internet filters on public library com- 
puters. It’s a brave, pro— First Amend- 
ment stance, and one that could cost the 


city some federal funding. 


elete! 


____..Dubious Deeds 


DVD VD 


You've heard of viru 


ading through 


e-mail. Now brace yourself for viruses 
traveling via contaminated DVDs. In 
November, Warner Bros. released the 
Powerpuff Girls DVD Meet the Beat Alls 

which was infected with the decidedly 


unfunny FunLoye virus. 


MICKEY MOUSE ETHICS 
In an episode of The Proud Family, a car- 
toon airing on the Disney Channel, a 


youngster downloads free music from 


an imaginary file-sharing system and brings 
about the demise of the entire music in- 


dustry. What's next, James and the Giant Leech? 


FAIL SAFE? 


A House subcommittee gave the Defense 


Department an F for failing to take com- 
S 
puter security measures despite reliable 


data showing that more than 20 countries 


are developing cyberwarfare techniques. 


Who would want to attack little old us? 


‘I feel guilty sometimes having to put 


my name on the songs. | 


do write 


them. | compose them, | do the scor- 


ing, | do the 


ics, | do the melodies, 


but still—it's the work of God' 


MICHAEL JACKSON, ON GETMUSIC.COM. DISCUSSING HIS INSPIRATION FOR SONGWRITING 


p of the Net : 


FASTEST LOADING 
Best-performing U.S. government sites* 
1 FEDERAL BUREAU OF 
INVESTIGATION [www.fbi.govl 
2 THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 


MOVIES 

Top five “most patriotic” American 

films of the past decade, according to 

surfers on Fandango lfandango.coml 
1 SAVING PRIVATE 


SLOWEST LOADING 
Worst-performing US. govt. sites" 
1 SOCIAL SECURITY ONLINE 
[www.ssa.govl 
2. U.S. NAVY [www.navy.mill 


RYAN [www.loc.govl 3 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND 
2 PEARL HARBOR 3 SUPREME COURT OF THE U.S. HEALTH ADMINISTRATION 
3 THE PATRIOT [supremecourtus.gov] losha.govl 
4 INDEPENDENCE DAY 4 USS. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 4 THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE 
Iwww.nps.govl 
5 THE Iwmnw.house.govl 
eer 5 US. ENVIRONMENTAL 5 AIR FORCE LINK twwew.af.mill 
PRESIDENT : “According to Keynote tkeynote.com Government 
Ratings reflec voting during the week of 10/8/01 PROTECTION AGENCY [epa.govl 40 Internet Performance Index, week of 10/22/01. 


The Girl 


mianwes Her debut album, Songs in A 
LSE Minor, sold more than 50,000 
CDs the day it hit store shelves, 
and fans are singing her praises online. 
Keys's brilliant intertwining of R&B, jazz, 
hip-hop, and classical influences has in- 
spired 97 clubs in her honor. Start @ 
Alicia Keys [aliciakeys.netl 


The Thing 


Pei The real king of all media? Pac- 
UU Man has appeared on cereal 
boxes, lunch pails, and, of 
course, the Atari 2600. Now it's making its 
debut on the Palm OS ($10); the game is 
available in color but without Pac-Man’s 
trademark “wakka-wakka" sound effects. 
Get your game on @ PalmGear.com 


The Guy 


EN Is there a more coveted film 
uM role than that of Anakin Sky- 
walker in this summer's Star 

Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones? An- 
swer: No, there is not. Fans of the sci-fi epic 
are already trading rumors online about 
Christensen's dark side, both on-screen 
and off. Join the chitchat @ Hayden Palace 
[clubs.yahoo.com/clubs/haydenpalacel 


JAMES PATRICK COOPER/RETNA, 


It's time your ears enjoyed 
working at the computer. 


Ears have needs, too. Big, booming, decibel-blasting needs. So we engineered our new 40-watt 
Champagne” speaker system with enough room-rattling, eye-popping high fidelity to make your ears 
forget they're seated at a desk. Get yours at www.harman-multimedia.com. harman/kardon 


Hater 


| 
Eliek! 


YOU-COMMERCE 


CASH FOR YOUR CASTOFFS... 
AND NO AUCTION HASSLES 


Here's a secret: To make money online, all 
you need is what you already have (but 
don’t mind parting with). At Amazon.com, 
Half.com, Switchouse [switchouse.coml, and 
Yahoo! Warehouse [warehouse.yahoo.coml, 
sell your used books, music, games, and 
more without the complexities of an on- 
line auction. Post an item—specifying its 


name, condition, and price—and buyers 


WHAT YOU 
CAN SEI 
Books, CDs, computers, 


DVDs, kitchen goods, 
electronics, and more 


AMAZON.COM 


99 cents, plus 15 per- 
cent of the selling price |prices, 


will come to you. At Amazon, your item is 
listed alongside Amazon's own, new 
ble) 


as an alternative for bargain hunters. That 


version of that merchandise (if av 


means a disaffected teen looking for 
The Catcher in the Rye also has the option of 
buying your used copy, for the price you set 
(which must be less than Amazon's retail 
price by at least 10 percent). None of the 
four sites charges for listing items. Your 
proceeds can be deposited into any desig- 
JEREMY CAPLAN 


nated checking account. 


{Autographed or collectible items can be sold at higher 


homeSoffice 


32 Yahoo! Internet Life » January 2002 


Books, CDs, computers, |— 45 ne 
smputers: |5-15 percent, depend- {You can list multiple items for sale at once and can 
HALECOM Rupe slectonien iad ing on the selling price [phone items in at no extra charge. 
Books, CDs, electronics, | | 
SWITCHOUSE | aber 
games, software, hard- |14 percent Lets you swap items with other sellers. 
ISWITCHOUSE.COMI Ware, and DVDs 
Books, music, DVDs, 5 percent (for items over} Ps 3 
YAHOO! WAREHOUSE _|Bo0ks, music, DVDs, ‘The newest service. Yahoo! Auctions sellers can trans- 
IWAREHOUSEYAHOO.COMi| Video games, and 3001010 erent (or iar their ratings here to attract potential buyers. 


Clip ‘n’ Save 


Big businesses have long 
used clipping services to track 
newspaper and magazine ar- 
ticles that mention them, their 
competitors, or their industry. Access to 
such information is a great competitive 
advantage, but subscribers pay hand- 
somely for the privilege. Clip Genius 
[clipgenius.com] aims to bring the same 
service to individuals and small busi- 
nesses who would rather pay $39 a month 
than $390. The site e-mails its subscribers 
daily customized news 
clippings from more 
than 160 online mag- 
azines, newspapers, 
and other publications. 
There are no hidden 
per-clip fees, you can 
change your search 
words at any time, and 
the e-mail delivery | 
means you don'thave — 
to wait days to get a 

bunch of photocopies 
in the mail. t 


Forward Thinking 


ple stick with crummy ISPs 
simply because they're un- 
willing to go through the 
hassle of changing e-mail addresses. 
But for those ready to take the plunge, 
Re-route [re-route.com] smooths the 
transition. Like those Change of Address 
cards you fill out at the post office when 
you move, Re-route facilitates mail 
forwarding. Give the service your old 
and new e-mail addresses, and it will 
forward messages to the new account 
while simultaneously informing senders 
of the new address. Of course, your old 
account must still be active when you 
sign up for the service—Re-route will 
let you know when to go ahead and 
cancel—but that cost (plus Re-route’s 
charges of $10 a month, or $25 for 
three months) is a small price to pay 
for this convenience. DON WILLMOTT 


It's sad but true: Some peo- 


READER: WILLIE MALDONADO/GETTYONE: SCISSORS: JEN FONG/PHOTONICA 


MSN¢® and Best Buy have a great offer for anyone with a lot on their mind. 


Get $200 to spend at Best Buy when you sign up for 2 years of 
msn. ™ MSN Internet Access*. With MSN you get fast, reliable connections, a 


home page you can customize and easy, one-click navigation that makes 
all of your favorites just a click away. Come in to Best Buy and we'll help 
you set up your account — and give you $200 to spend in the store. Talk 
about a no-brainer. MSN Internet Access. Fast, reliable, really cool. 


TurnOnthe Fun" 
BestBuy.com™ 


"Register in store for 24 mo. of MSN Internet Access (diatup) at £21.95/mo. Eorly cancellation will result in substantial penoltes. Significant telephone charges may opply. MISN® Instant Rebate program requires: 
(1) the purchase of eligible merchandise totaling in excess of the selected instont rebate omount (Soles tox applies to total purchase price including rebotes and add-ons) from Best Buy from 12/18/01 to 1 /31/02; 
(2) selection of 24-month membership (°200 rebate), or §-month membership (75 rebate) ot the rate of £21.95/mo. + toxes; (3) instore sign up for new account at time of purchase; (4) o volid mojor credit cad; ond 
(5) acceptance of MSN Intemet Access subscription agreement. May not be combined with ony other MMSN Internet Access promotion, Offer voli only on new MSN accounts established in store of time of eligible purchase. In the 
event that we are unable to register you for Internet service on the date of purchase, we wil offer a maikn rebate forthe some amount. No tainchecks will be offered for the MSN Instant Rebote program. Terms applicable to 
all MSN° Internet Access plans: Unless noted elsewhere, for users of Windows® 95 or later operating systems only. Avoilable only to new members. Registration for 0 new MSH Internet Access Account required ot time of 
putchose. You must additionally agree to the MSN Subscription Agreement to access the service, Void mojor credit card required (Visa, Master Cord, Discover/Novus or American Express card; Best Buy cord may not be used for 
these offers). Your credit card will be automatically billed the applicable monthly fees each month. Following the expiration of your plon, the current price for your service will be automaticaly chorged to your credit card unfl you 
cancel your account or select on alternative plon. If for any reason your subscription is cancelled or terminated prior to the end of the required period, you will be required to pay a termination 
fee equal to 70% of the monthly service fee multiplied by the number of months remaining in the required period. (ISN Intemet Access is ovallabl only for personal non-commercial use. Additional 
phone and/or long distance charges may apply. It is the customer's responsibility to check with a local phone company to determine if additional phone charges may apply. Locol market 
network activity ond capacity may affect diabup access voilability, You must be 18 years old or older. Microsoft and MMSN ore either registered trodemorks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation inthe U.S. and/or other countries. 
Additionl Terms and Conditions opply. See store for details. © 2002 Best Buy 


| 
] 


34 


Check for Days Off 


The first snow day is usually the happi- 


est day of the school year for kids, Many 
adults feel the same way about work. 


To find out as soon as possible whether 
school or the job is giving it a rest, log on 
to Cancellations.com. The service reports 
school and business closings, so you'll 
know early on whether to put on your 
boots and trudge to the bus stop or fire 
up some hot cocoa and plan your sled- 
ding route. Sign up for e-mail notifica- 
tion and you won't even have to visit the 
site at all. Check to see if your school dis- 
trict is listed; if not, earn some brownie 
points by letting the superintendent know. 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


US NEWS OF YOUR USEFUL 


EET 


SEND 


THIS MONTH’S MOST PRACTICAL DESTINATIONS 


Report 

a Crime 
If you've witnessed 
criminal activity, you 
can anonymously 
share the info online 
at WeTip [wetip.coml, 
a nonprofit founded 
in '72. Just fill outa 
form with a descrip- 
tion of the alleged 
wrongdoers and their 
misdeeds. The site also 
has tips on recogniz- 
ing suspicious activity 
and descriptions of 
some of America’s 
most wanted, sortable 
by region and crime. 


Ace a Job 
Interview 
“Beware of open- 
ended questions. 
Never tell anyone 
you're not interested 
in the job. Ask when 
you should meet 
again.” That's just the beginning of 
the advice at JobsOnTheWeb.com: Tips 
[jobsontheweb.com/tips.html, a site that 
collects great pointers on all aspects of 
the job hunt, especially the interview 
process. Scroll through the questions 
every candidate should ask (“What are 
the major frustrations of the job?") and 
questions interviewers may ask (“Acad- 
emically, what were your worst subjects?”). 
Then read the 34 things never to do in 
an interview, and practice not doing them. 


Be a History Whiz 


Want to jump-start your next public 
speaking engagement? Whether you're 
addressing the nation or giving a toast, 


FIND! WRITE TO IU: 


IS@ZIFFDAVI 


BY JEREMY CAPLAN 


type in the date of your appearance 
at Learning Network: This Day in History 
linfoplease.com/cgi-bin/dayinhistory]. You'll 
find out what happened on that day 
in years past so you can reference a rel- 
evant battle, event, or death. You'll seem 
like a witty historian without even break- 
ing a sweat. (Just for kicks, you can also 
use the site to find out who shares your 
birthday, the lucky dog,) 


Replace That 

Broken Dish 
So you dropped the good sugar bowl, 
and now your wedding china is incom- 
plete. What are you going to do (besides 
blame the family pet)? Check out the 
North Carolina~based Replacements, Ltd. 
[replacements.coml, which offers 8 mil- 
lion pieces of china in 160,000 patterns. 
The site sells silver and crystal as well, 
so there's no reason not to have a table 


worthy of Martha Stewart when com- 


pany comes for dinner. 


Clean Your Computer 
If you use a lot of shareware or free- 
ware, it’s easy to unwittingly download 
“spyware.” These programs sometimes 
come as part of other software, and 
they can meddle with your surfing or con- 
nect to Web sites without permission. 
Visit Scumware.com to learn how to rid 


IS.COM 


GIRL ON ICE: JOHN BEATTY/GETTYONE; DISHES: MIKE HUTMACHER/NEWSCOM 


GUY ON VAN: JAN ERIK POSTH/NONSTOCK; FROG: CZARINA BUCKINGHAM/GETTYONE 


your computer of such nuisances. As soon 
as you log on to the site it will recognize 
whether certain “scumware” has been 
inadvertently installed on your computer 


and show you how to clean it out. 


Read Round the World 


In recent months Americans have be 
come much more interested in inter- 
national affairs. Here’s a way to keep the 
trend going. OnlineNewspapers.com is a 
no-nonsense site that connects you to 
newspapers around the world. Choose 
the place that interests you and get a list 
of edifying sources. As part of its informed 
mix, the site links to 11 papers from Saudi 
Arabia, six from Costa Rica, and 27 from 
Japan. U.S. papers are here, too. The site 
also accepts visitors’ suggestions, adding 


new papers regularly. 


Wield a Scalpel 


If you remember your high-school 
science labs with fondness (frog guts, 
anyone?), go to TryScience Itryscience. 
org], a welcome doorway back to 
youth. Conduct experiments online 
using short Shoc e simulations, 
or learn about experiments you can 
do at home. The projects are inter- 
esting enough for adults, and the in- 


terface is easy enough for kids to use. 


Research Any Word 


The next time you're composing a 


poem or wrestling with a crossword 
puzzle, RhymeZone [rhymezone.coml 
can help. In addition to rhymes, 


the site will find synonyms, antonyms, 
homophones, definitions, or words that 
match a pattern. You can even find out 
where in Shakespeare's plays the word 
in question was mentioned or retrieve 


pictures associated with the word 


Share a Journey 
When it comes to supercheap ways of 
getting from here to there, driving with 
others surely tops the list; eRideShare 
lerideshare.coml helps you find travel 
companions anywhere in the U.S. When 
we tried it, the site listed an impressive 
948 carpools and 99 cross-country trips; 
and it’s free to sign up to drive or be dri 
ven ina group. To get a list of available 
groups or drivers, choose the state in 
which you're seeking a carpool—or, if 


you're traveling, input your destination 


MAKE A FACE 

Sure, videophones sound cool, but do 
you really want to vid when you've just 
rolled out of bed and still have schmutz 
in your eyes? SeeStorm Messenger 
Iwww.seestorm.com] makes sure you 
look good all the time by using a 3-D 
avatar of you as a visual stimulus dur- 
ing your Net-based phone calls. Send 
in a digital photo and SeeStorm will 
create an avatar whose virtual eyes 
will blink and whose virtual mouth will 
move as you speak. Don't want to use 
your own face? Go to the site and 
download James Bond, a president, or 
any of the many other avatars. Free. 


GET REAL 

If you've been collecting various ver- 
sions of RealPlayer and RealJukebox 
on your PC over the past six years, it's 
time to clean house. The new RealOne 
Player [real.com] supersedes everything 
Real Networks has created before. 
Built on a unified theory of online audio 
and video, it brings together stream- 
ing content, Internet radio, CD playing 
and burning, and MP3 management, 
all under one interface. Free. 


GRAB A SCREEN 

Every well-equipped Web surfer should 
have on hand a simple screen-cap- 
ture utility with which to save memo- 
rable pictures or pages. CaptureWizPro 
[pixelmetrics.coml fits the bill. Like 
most screen grabbers, it remains 
active in the background, ready to 
pop up on request. Use it to capture 
a full screen or manipulate its unique 
floating frame until you've zeroed in 
on the piece of the page you'd like 
to save. $29.95. DON WILLMOTT 


www.yil.com > January 2002 35 


YOURS. 


What's your idea of the perfect PC? Let us know and we'll build it for you. Hungry for power? Choose a fast Intel® Pentium® 4 Processor. 
Got a hidden talent? Get a CD-RW drive and release your first CD. Or get a DVD-R/RW & CD-RW combo drive and produce and share 


your own movies. Just call and order one of these Compaq Presario PCs direct from Compaq today. Nothing could be simpler. 


Compaq PCs use genuine Microsoft® Windows® 
www.microsoft.com/piracy/howtotell 


the U.S. only, and are 
with Compaq Financial 
‘ 


sand do not include 
a 


I | 


Digital Pro 


Presario 8000T-2.0 


$1779 


As low as $50 per month' 

Intel® Pentium® 4 Processor 2.00 GHz 
Microsoft® Windows® XP Home Edition 

256 MB SyncDRAM 

80.0 GB (7200 rpm) UltraDMA Hard Drive’ 
16X DVD-ROM Drive* 

16X CD-RW Drive" 

56K ITU V.90 Modem? 

10/100 Network Interface Card 

Sound Blaster™ Live! Value 5.1 

Monsoon MH-350 Speakers with Subwoofer 
64 MB SDR nVidia GeForce2 MX with TV-Out 
Compaq CV735 17" Monitor (16.0" VIA) 
FREE Shipping" 

Six Months of AOL Intemet Access Included‘ 
Personalize by choosing: 

Compaq CV935 19" Monitor (18.0" VIA): Add $100 
512 MB SyncDRAM: Add $100 


MyMovieSTUDIO. Just $499. 


Power User 
Presario 5000T-1.8 


$1449 


As low as $41 per month’ 

Intel Pentium 4 Processor 1.80 GHz 
Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition 

256 MB SyncDRAM 

60.0 GB UltraDMA Hard Drive’ 

16X DVD-ROM Drive* 

16X CD-RW Drive’ 

‘56K ITU V.90 Modem* 

10/100 Network Interface Card 

‘Soundmax II Digital Audio 

JBL Platinum Speakers with Digital Audio Port 
64 MB SDR nVidia GeForce2 MX with TV-Out 
Compaq CV735 17" Monitor (16.0" VIA) 
FREE Shipping* 

Six Months of AOL Internet Access Included* 
Personalize by choosing: 

CD-R Media 25-Pack: Add $15.99 


Monsoon MH-350 Speakers with Subwoofer: Add $54 


Family Champion 
Presario 5000T-1.7 


$1179" 


As low as $33 per montht 

Intel Pentium 4 Processor 1.70 GHz 
Microsoft Windows XP Home Ecition 

256 MB SyncDRAM 

40,0 GB UttraDMA Hard Drive’ 

16X DVD-ROM Drive’ 

‘56K ITU V.90 Modem’ 

10/100 Network Interface Card 

‘Soundmax Il Digital Audio 

JBL Platinum Speakers with Digital Audio Port 
16 MB nVidia Vanta 

Compaq CV735 17" Monitor (16.0" VIA) 
FREE Shipping” 

‘Six Months of AOL Intemet Access Included 
Personalize by choosing: 

Microsoft Windows XP Pro: Add $99 

16X CD-RW Drive”: Add $119 


Whiz Kid 


Presario 5000T-1.6 


$899 


As low as $26 per month' 

Intel Pentium 4 Processor 1.60 GHz 
Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition 

128 MB SyncDRAM 

20.0 GB UltraDMA Hard Drive! 

40X Max CD-ROM Drive® 

56K ITU V.90 Modem? 

10/100 Network Interface Card 

‘Soundmax Il Digital Audio 

JBL Platinum Speakers with Digital Audio Port 
16 MB nVidia Vanta 

Compaq CV535 15" Monitor (13.8" VIA) 
FREE Shipping* 

Six Months of AOL Internet Access Included* 
Personalize by choosing: 

256 MB SyncDRAM: Add $50 

Compaq CV735 17" Monitor (16.0" VIA): Add $70 


Create and share your own home movies. Add MyMovieSTUDIO to your Compag Presario Desktop PC. The editing software and easy access ports for digital cameras and 
camcorders will make it simple to produce quality films. 


Just plug in and edit. It’s that easy. Connect your camera into the easy access ports to download your home videos onto your PC. Then edit your footage with Studio DV software. 
You can save your movie onto your hard drive, or burn it onto a DVD using your DVD-R/RW & CD-RW combo drive. 


It’s a blockbuster. You can play your movie on most DVD players. So gather your family and friends, pop it in, and wait for that Best Picture nomination. 


> Buy direct from Compaq 


toll - free 


1-800-632-8252 


compaq.com/athome 


>To buy direct from Compaq in Puerto Rico, call toll-free 1-800-668-5341. > Para comprar de Compaq directamente en Puerto Rico, lame gratuitamente al 1-800-668-5341. 


‘promotional period. Members may incur telaphone charges on their phone bil, depending on ther location and caling plan, even during promotional period. Acceptance cf the applicable ADL Internet Aacess agreement is required. Please see agreement for details at AOL keyword: TOS. Available 
to new members in the ULS., age 18 or older, and a major credit card or checking account is required. "16X CD-RW drive data transfer rates may vary 2s follows: for recording to CD-R media, the max transfer rate may be up to 2400 Kops (use 16X discs for bast performance) for waiting fo 
CD-RW meds, the max transfer rata mary be up to 1500 Koos Requires use ct 410K cSsc. Ths drive suppers the high-speed 4-10X CD-RW discs and does not support low speed, 2~4X CD-RW mec) for reading CD mecia, the max tanster rate may be up to 6000 Kops. Actual transl rates 
may vary depending on media quay. “40X Max CD-ROM data transfer rates may vary from 2550 to 6000 Kees. Micrasot® Windows® XP Home Ecition instaled. Compaq, the Comypaq Logo, Inspiration Technology, and Presario are trademarks of Compag information Technologies Group, LP. in 
the U.S. and other countries. intl, the Intel Inside Logo, and Pentium are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel Corporation or its subsidies inthe US. and other countries. Micrasof, MS, and Windows are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation, America Online and AOL are 
registered service marks of America Online, Inc. Products and company names mentioned herein may be trademarks and/or registered trademarks of other companies. ©2001 Compaq information Technologies Group, LP. 0759/01/02 


| 
Click!» old way 


COMPARING THE TRIED-AND-TRUE WIT 


net way” 


DAVID 


_ BUYING CHILDREN'S BOOKS 


38 


I'm always looking for new kids’ books. I regularly read 
reviews of the current crop and check out the best- 


sounding ones from the library. For gifts, however, | 


go to a local bookshop with little couches for restless kids. 


The staff there often recommends books that the reviewers 
miss. We've found some great ones that way. This visit | 


t and Click, Clack, 


left the shop with So You Want to Be Pre 


Moo: Cows That Type. Both were big hits in our household 


TIME ELAPSED 45 minutes browsing and buying 
COMMENTS neither the kids nor I tire of reading the 


best of these children’s books over and over again. 


Reviews are plentiful online, and ALA: American Library 
award winners on its site. I 
f Black Women Freedom 
Fighters and Uptown, which won the Coretta Scott King Award. 


Association [www.ala.org] li: 


decided to browse Let It Shine: Storie: 


Examined the online booksellers at BookPriceCompare. 

com. But I want to see (and read) picture books before 

buying them. Headed back to the bookshop to browse, 
and purchased a big stack of great books. 


TIME ELAPSED oo minutes 


COMMENTS Picture books need to be held and previewed 


in person, and my kids and I enjoy doing that. 


You can't pore over the pages of picture books online...yet. 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


SHEFF 


BART NAGEL 


__ MAKING NEW YEAR'S RESOLUTIONS 


OLD WAY 


It's that time again, and this year’s resolutions seem 
particularly important. How do I want to conduct my life 
differently in 2002? My list began, “I resolve to give more 


more money and more time—to those who are less fortunate.” 


I didn’t want to forget about them, so I wrote this year's 
resolutions on a piece of paper and tacked them over my 
office desk. The theory: I will be reminded daily. 


TIME ELAPSED 15 minutes 
COMMENTS The New Year is 


over, so reflection seems in order. 


symbolic time of starting 


OLD WAY 


al: Called the major health insurers in our area and spoke to 
their representatives and agents. The wide variety of plans, 
with differing coverage, deductibles, maximum benefits, and 
copayments, was overwhelming, So were the costs, which ranged 


from $300 to $1,200 a month for our family of five. 


; ) Decided to call friends and ask about their insurance. No 
one seemed thrilled with his plan. Decided to check the Net. 


TIME ELAPSED 5 hours on the phone 


COMMENTS forthose ofus without company-sponsored 


plans, the process of comparing costs and benefits is daunting. 


SHOPPING FOR HEALTH INSURANCE 


NE TM ASy 


The Net lets you share your resolutions, turning a per- 


sonal experience into a communal one. | read a bunch 


at various sites, including the international The New Year Pages: 
New Year Resolutions [www.new-year.co.uk/resolutions/resframe. 
html] and Happy New Year! [theholidayspot.com/newyear], Some 
people resolved to get better grades and have more fun while 


others said they would volunteer at the local school, attend 


daily AA meetings, or do something every day to try to make 


the world a better place. 


2 One site—How-to-Keep-Your-New-Years-Resolution.com: Achiev- 
ing Success [how-to-keep-your-new-years-resolution.com/html/ 


success.htmll—offered wise 


advice, such as: “Don’t try everything 
at once” and “Word it carefully.” I can use all the help I can get. 


TIME ELAPSED 15 minutes 
COMMENTS tw. 


have their hearts in the right place 


suring to see that most people 


NET WAY 


al Searched for health insurance and clicked on eHealthInsurance. 
com, where a cost-comparison form asked me to fill in my 
ZIP code and some information about my family. A list of dozens 
of plans materialized. It took only five minutes for me to get over- 


loaded, instead of five hours. | guess that's progress. 
Checked ConsumerReports.org, which offers a useful (and 


free) report on health insurance that includes a survey of 


thousands of customers. 


TIME ELAPSED thour online 


COMMENTS 1 love the free access to CR’s trusted data. 


www.yil.com > January 2002 


39 


fc 


eh; 


EDR ET! 


Fashion on the Fly | 


40 


I like to stay in style 
as much as the next guy but 
don't have time to pore over 
fashion magazines. Any no-non- 
sense sites you can suggest? 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


A >) As the Net matures, so 
does its ability to deliver some 
truly chic fashion tips. For dig- 
ital diehards such as yourself, 
Modern Clothes for the Modern 
Man [modernman.com/clothes] 


provides definitive, plain- Eng 
lish advice. To get the inside 


track on what's coming down 


the runway this season, Harry 
Rosen [www.harryrosen.coml is a 


site you'll want to bookmark. 


PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVIES+STARR 


Joseph Abboud green suede 
quilted jacket [saks.com]; 
Claiborne Menswear shirt and 
cardigan [macys.com]; alligator 
belt [brooksbrothers.com]; 
Joseph Abboud corduroy 
trousers [saks.com] 


And if you're willing to add 


a couple of fashion treatises 


to your library, you can’t go 
wrong with a search at your fa- 
vorite online bookseller for any 


title by either Donald Charles 


Richardson or Alan J. Flus 
two well-known and deservedly 


trusted menswear authorities. 


Q)) Though I'm a natural when 
it comes to fashion and interior 
design, my talents fall flat in the 
kitchen. But | like to entertain. 
Have any shortcuts? 

A») Ifyou know the differ- 
ence between a cappuccino 
machine and a food processor, 
you can host a dinner party with 
fare that compares to the finest 
restaurant's. Impromptu Gourmet 
limpromptugourmet.com] sells 
delicious cook-it-yourself meal 
kits conceived by some of the 
country’s best-known chefs. The 
culinary wizards-in-residence 
at such renowned eateries as 
New York City’s Jean-Georges 
and Le Bernardin, among other 
hot spots nationwide, provide 
the expertise behind these 
overnight-mail productions. 
Just determine the tastes of your 
potential guests (for instance, 
is it an aged-sirloin or lemon- 
grass-chicken type of group?) 
and then select from the ser- 
vice’s current list of entrée of- 


ferings ($38 to $45 per serving). 


Warren Christopher has the answers. 
Write to askwarren@ziffdavis.com. 


The War on Winter : 


» These boots 
with waterproof lug soles look as 
good in the office as on the street; 
$185, $123, and $110 a pair at Cole 
Haan [colehaan.coml, Wolverine 
[wolverinebootsandshoes.coml, 
and Timberland [timberland.coml]. 


» 


mistake: People notice your 


ake no 


socks—especially when they don’t 
match. But these duo-toned 
classics will get attention for the 
right reasons; $2650 per pair at 
Paul Stuart [paulstuart.com]. 


» You can’t cre- 
ate the perfect snowball with 
frostbitten digits. These durable 
basics give flexibility and warmth. 
Let the games begin; $27 a pair, 
Woolrich [woolrich.coml; $55 a pair, 
The North Face [thenorthface.com] 


PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVIES*STARR 


» This foul 
weather—friendly footgear is long 
on style; $155, $95, and $185, from 
Rockport [rockport.coml, Eddie 
Bauer [eddiebauer.coml, Johnston 
& Murphy [johnstonandmurphy. 


coml. MEAGHAN O'NEILL 


www.yil.com > January 2002 


a 


DANCE ON FIRE 


Rare Doors recordings are now a Web exclusive 


WHEN THE SURVIVING MEMBERS OF THE DOORS ANNOUNCED THAT THEY'D BE RELEASING A SERIES 
of live albums culled from their archives exclusively through the band’s official site, even 
die-hard fans wondered if there was anything left worth mining, But that was before 
they heard Live in Detroit, which many now regard as the Jim Morrison—led band’s best 
concert collection. And the latest Live at the Aquarius Theatre releases, The First Performance 
and The Second Performance, are even better. Recorded on July 21, 1969, these two 
double-disc sets present the two shows the Doors played that night and bear wit 

early days. Whil 


release, Highlights from the Aquarius Theatre Performances, provides a single-disc 


hird 


as the band recaptures the fire and fury of its 


survey of the evening, the unabridged versions unambiguously show why 


GOTO 
YIL.COM/CRITICS 
FOR MORE INFO 


the band decided to open its vaults. The Doors [thedoors.com] — PAUL SEMEL 


| GERMAN LANGUAGE BEGINNERS CHAT | BUFFY CHATROOM 3 P.M. VOLUBLE 
MON 98m. practice your peurscH TUE vane mwweec.co.uaivechat’ 
IGERMAN.ABOUT.COM/MPCHAT.HTMI CHATROOMS/CHAT_CULTSHTML 


42 Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


R.E.M. “Live in Cologne” 
When it released Reveal in May, R.E.M. 
played a handful of Webcast concerts, 
acoustic radio gigs, and TV shows. You'll 
find all those shows in the MP3 area of 
this site's Music category, including a 
brilliant concert from Cologne, 
Germany (click on Koln), in which new 
tunes mix with old faves such as “South 
Central Rain" and “Cuyahoga.” Ps. 
[m2k1.murmurs.com] 


BADGER "Internet Favourites” 

The Net loves high concepts such as 
this: your basic guitar/violin/electro- 
gadget folk-rock trio, featuring the son 
and daughter of definitive Hulk artist 
Herb Trimpe. Venturing from its home 
terrain in New York mountain country, 
Badger's alt-roots sound is electrifying, 
mixing grungy Celtic fiddling with violin 
psychedelia and pastoral power-pop. 
AM. Imp3.com/badger] 


PHARAOH'S DAUGHTER “Hagar” 
The poster band for New York's Jewish 
alternative-music movement, Pharaoh's 
Daughter brings a basement-band exu- 


berance to an ancient repertoire, adding 

DIY rawness and world-beat influences 

to timeless Middle Eastern material. AM. 
[pharachsdaughter.com] 


SPACE CHAT 3 P.M. 


WED cer starstruck twww.esc.co.uks 


SCIENCE/SPACE/SPACECHAT] 


MORRISON: YALE JOEL/TIMEPIX: PHARAQH’S DAUGHTER: MARCOS RIBIERO 


CHICK: COURTESY OF BWGAME.COM; MAX PAYNE: REMEDY ENTERTAINMENT 


The popular Black & White gets some new twists 


HAVING ENJOYED ENORMOUS SUCCESS 
since its launch earlier this year 
(see Content, July 01), Elec- 
tronic Arts’ “God game” Black 
& White has millions of com- 
puter gamers worldwide fever- 
ishly clicking away. Now the first 
official expansion pack, Crea- 


ture Isle, is set to debut. The $30 


add-on disk emphasizes your 
“creature”—be ita croc, lion, ape, 
or rhino. The goal? To help your 


creature mate with a female, Eve. 


But as in real life, this isn’t so easy. The _ allowing up to eight player-creatures to 


creature must first successfully ac- come together in combat with new fight- 


complish a handful of tasks to win her 


ing styles, moves, and powers. The site 


admiration (isn’t that always the way?). _ also offers free Black & White add-ons, 


Like the original game, Creature Isle 


including music tracks and a soccer mini- 


supports a robust online component, game. [bwgame.com] MARC SALTZMAN 


FAMILIAR HORRORS 


Witnesses to September 11 converge in a new e-book 


HERE'S THE RARE BOOK THAT MAKES E-PUBLISHING SEEM WORTHWHILE. PRODUCED IN LITTLE 
over a week by about 75 contributors, the e-book 09/11 8:48 AM: Documenting Amer- 
ica’s Greatest Tragedy records dozens of impressions of the September 11 catastrophe 
with searing intensity. If the news is the first draft of history, this is the second. 


Of course, readers whose eyes have been welded to the news since that day may not 


ors, and 
are by now gruesomely familiar, calling to mind Stephen Dedalus’s reflec- 


learn much new. The witnesses here range from pilots and priests to pro! 


their storie: 


tion in Ulysses: “I hear the ruin of all space, shattered glass and toppling masonry, and 
time one livid final flame.” But the reiteration of crashing airplanes and collapsing tow- 


ers and desperately yearning loss won't keep most from reading these accounts com- 


pulsively. Jay Rosen—who as chair of New York Universi 


s Journalism Department 
helped coordinate the project—quotes 20th-century political theorist Hannah Arendt: 
“The struggle to believe the evidence of our senses is at the root of all moral life.” A 
hundred recountings of this event barely yield the beginnings of moral comprehension. 

The book's only drawback is the third section, “Angles of Vision,” in which con- 
tributors were invited to reflect on how the U.S. ought to react. The message is dis- 
appointingly single-minded, repeatedly arguing that America is to blame for what 
happened and that retaliation only perpetuates the cycle of violence. The inclusion 
of such views is not the problem; it’s the lack of opposing perspectives that severely 
narrows the angle of vision of an otherwise cathartic reading experience. 

Proceeds generated by 09/11 are being donated to the American Red Cross. Book- 
surge [booksurge.com] e-book ($6), paperback ($14.99) CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 


‘CREATURE’ COMFORTS | —@me-Shorts— 


DUNGEON SIEGE Heralded as a 
“Diablo killer,” this eagerly anticipated 
role-playing action game features a 
deep story line, intuitive controls, 
and beautiful environments. Players 
can customize each party to include 
up to eight characters, and a built-in 
matchmaking lobby lets adventurers 
meet online to play. MS. <*> 
Idungeonsiege.coml (Microsoft, $49.99) 


MAX PAYNE: KUNG FU EDITION 
While not messing with the gritty Max 
Payne story line, this free, homemade 
modification introduces some deadly 
hand-to-hand moves, such as forward 
flips and roundhouse kicks. It also adds 
new camera angles, some weapon 
changes, and the ability to shift from 
one playing level to another anytime. 
Ms. © © [maxpaynecenter.com/ 
downloads/modsindex] (Free) 


DIGITOPIA: THE LOOK OF THE NEW 
DIGITAL YOU With the onset of virtual 
reality and real virtuality, will we become 
as shallow as a kiddie pool? In 25 
essays, psychologist Richard 
DeGrandpre explores the dark side of 
an emerging digital dreamland. Though 
he takes care not to simplify his issues, 
the repetitive prose often muddles a 
powerful theme: In our surge toward an 
electronic future, we risk leaving our hu- 
manity behind. NM. © [bn.coml (In 
print, or by download) 


THE CONTENT COMMITTEE: ADAM MCGOVERN, 
NAN MOONEY, MARC SALTZMAN, PAUL SEMEL 


, TEA WITH TED 6 pa FANTASY FORUM 5 psi. DREAM 
THU. distinc Houtrwooo oir | F RI TEAMS IesPN.Go.coM/COMMUNITY/ 
: IEONLINE.COM/GOSSIPI | beeemmepn CHRON SNC 


T 
| 


SUI 


WINE-GRAPE GROWING CHAT 2 P.n. 
A CULTIVATING CONVERSATION 
IGRAPECHAT.COM) 


www.yil.com » January 2002 


43 


eool tools 


ultimate accessories for the digital life 


Gu LET aR LiOnGe: 
No, it's nota golf cart. Ford's Think Neighbor is 
an ecofriendly way to make short trips around 
the neighborhood without the expense of main- 
taining a car. The electric vehicle can be charged 
up at any 120-volt household outlet, lasts for 
30 miles on a full battery, has zero emissions, 
and achieves a top speed of 25 mph while barely 
making a sound. Independent suspension and 
rack-and-pinion steering give a carlike ride, and 
plenty of options are available—everything 
from a cooler/mister to a moon roof. Starts at 
about $6,000 [thinkmobility.com] 


CIGITAL CAMERA 


D-230 


IMPROVE YOUR IMAGI 


Olympus already has a great reputation for high-end digital cameras, 
and now it is enhancing its offerings in the point-and-shoot arena. The 
pocket-size, 6-ounce Olympus Brio D-230 has an autofocus lens with 
5X digital zoom, automatic flash with red-eye reduction, special ef- 
fects such as sepia and black-and-white imaging, and a video mode 
that can save a minute-long movie shot at 15 frames per second. A 16MB 
SmartMedia card is included. $299 lolympusamerica.coml 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


TELEPHONIC CONVERGENCE 

What's in the PC-EPhone? What isn't? The Windows CE-based hand- 
held organizer is not only a cell phone but also a complete PDA 
that delivers the wireless Web to its large, touch-sensitive color screen. 
It has 32MB of RAM and a CompactFlash Type II slot for memory up- 
grades, It's not as small or sleek (or affordable) as Windows CE-based 
models from Compaq and HP, but the huge screen sure is hard to 
resist. $999 [pc-ephone.com] 


@ cool tools 


BOY OH BOY 

CMC's CyberBoy stretches the definition of “all in one." Like a Swiss Army 
knife, this PDA does everything. Its Palm-like daily organizer and ad- 
dress-book programs sync to Outlook, and it includes an MP3 player 
and audio recorder, an FM radio, and a built-in low-resolution digital 
camera (around back) that captures short video clips. With only 8MB 
of memory on board, though, you'll need to cough up more dough for 
extra SmartMedia cards if you want to shoot a lot of photos or listen 
to a few hours’ worth of tunes. Everything connects to your PC via USB. 
$349 [www.cmcia.com/eng/index-eng.html] 


by don willmott 


LET THE SHOW BEGIN 

You've converted to digital photography, and everything's great...ex- 
cept for the fact that Grandma and Grandpa have to hunch over your 
PC to view the pictures. Why not gather round the TV instead? Use the 
software included with the Microsoft TV Photo Viewer to make albums 
of digital photos and save them in a special format on floppy disks. Then 
pop the disks into the gadget (which connects to the TV), and sit back 
and watch. $159 [microsoft.com] 


CATCH A WAVE 
The Bose Wave radio has long been popular with the free-spending 
Sharper Image crowd. Its computer-enabled cousin, the Bose Wave/PC, 
gives you an easy, high-quality way to enjoy Net radio, CDs played 
through your PC, and your MP3 collection. A credit-card-size remote 
and six presets for each audio source make it easy to switch functions. 
One caveat: The connector is only 15 feet long, so chances are the 
Wave/PC will have to live in the same room as your PC. $449 [bose.com] 


wwwyil.com > January 2002 


45 


HOW TO GET THE MOST NET IN THE-LEAST TIME 


fine 
ADVERTISERS CAN BUY THEIR WAY INTO 
SOME SEARCH ENGINES’ RESULTS. SO WHAT? 


Last July, one of Ralph Nader's watchdog groups, Commercial Alert 
[www.commercialalert.org], complained to the Federal Trade Com- 


mission that many search engines weren't adequately disclosing 


the fact that some of their search results had been paid for by 
advertisers who wanted to guarantee themselves a top listing. 
You can find such results all over the Net under headings such 
as Sponsored Links, Partner Links, or, as in the case of Lycos, the 
ar Featured Li 


le: 


not-quite-cryst: ings. MSN.com attaches a 
long explanation to its Featured Sites search results that spells out 


what they are. Yahoo! calls them Sponsored Sites 


As it turns out, many of these search results come from one 
place: Overture [overture.com] (formerly known as GoTo.com), a 
rare dot-com success that’s always been up-front about the yellow 
pages—like service it provides. In fact, each pay-for-placement search 
result at Overture includes a disclosure that tells you exactly how 
much the advertiser forked over for that position. Overture dis- 
tributes these listings to sites such as AOL, EarthLink, Lycos, and 
Yahoo!, and lets them label the links however they want. 

Meanwhile, Overture’s 45,000-plus advertisers get a direct line 
to consumers who are looking fora specific item or service. Eighty 
Overture editors screen incoming listings to make sure they're not 
only aboveboard but also associated with the appropriate keywords, 


so they'll show up in the right places. Overture executives claim 


that every search engine is affected by commercialism, owing to 


the “search-result optimization” industry, which helps commercial 


quick tips 


WONDER WHEEL 

It's not just for scrolling anymore. Turns 
out the Microsoft Wheel Mouse is a 
multitalented browsing tool. By press- 
ing the Control key while turning the 
wheel, you can magnify or shrink the 


trick also works for resizing text in 
Microsoft Word and Excel documents. 


REPEAT AFTER ME 
So long as your sound card can play 
it, Total Recorder (highcriteria.com] 


___size of the text ona Web page. This _can record it. The PC-only software can 


EDITED-BY-DON-WI 


interests shove their way to the top of the results heap. 


The bottom line, according to Overture, 


ness 


simple: If busi- 


s get leads from the Net, they should pay for them, because 


that will help keep Net searching free. Whether or not search en- 


gines are doomed without paid listings, it pays to take a closer 


look at your search results and understand what you're seeing, 


even capture audio from digital media 
players, including Microsoft Windows 
Media Player and Apple QuickTime. 
The unregistered version of Total 
Recorder is free, but users can record 
only up to 40 seconds of audio, The 
registered version costs $1195. 


WINDOWS PATCHWORK 
__Surfers who use Windows Media Player 


version 6.4, 20, or 7.1 to listen to stream- 
ing media content (such as Net radio 
stations) should take note: A security 
hole in the software can allow hackers 
to run malicious Windows-crashing code 
on your PC. A fix, along with an expla- 
nation of the glitch, is available at the 
Microsoft.com Download Center 
Imicrosoft.com/downloads/release. 


__asp?releaselD=314591]. 


ETS) 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


ANN CUTTING/PHOTONICA 


AOL GETS YET ANOTHER FACE-LIFT IN VERSION 7.0, 
BUT CALLING IT AN UPGRADE IS A REAL STRETCH 


(& Radio@AOL 


Radio 


STATIONS BY CATEGORY 


AOL 


STATION NOW PLAYING 


& AOL You've Got Pictures 


AOL Keyword: Pictures) 


LISTEN AND LOOK AOL 7.0 includes new instant-messaging and Net radio features, as well as improvements to the You've Got Pictures service. 


Ol: few good changes 
e 


AOL continues to improve, but ever so slowly. What's new in 
7.0? The AOL Calendar now lets you drag and drop appoint- 
ments onto other dates in the calendar. It’s about time. You can 
also add local happenings to your calendar simply by clicking 
on links scattered throughout the service's content areas. And 
you can create direct pathways to news, weather, and MovieFone 
listings right from the Welcome screen. As for You've Got Pic- 
tures 2.0, it now works with nearly any brand of digital camera, 
which means you can upload images directly to the service's photo 
gallery from connected cameras and scanners, 


DO Dy, music for the masses 


Perhaps the most significant addition to AOL 7.0 is Radio@AOL, 
which is accessible from the toolbar. It provides subscribers with 
access to 75 radio channels, including Awesome "80s, Country, 
R&B, World Music, and Classical. It’s a nice addition to the ser- 
vice, but the music selection pales in comparison with that of 
other online radio sources (such as Live365.com), which are free 
Web services. Still, the Radio button makes access to streaming 
music that much more convenient for those who like to stay in 
the AOL environment. Not surprisingly, Radio@AOL has di- 
rect links to CDNow so listeners can purchase albums. 


| DO 3 mixed mailbag 
e a 


Improvements in e-mail and instant messaging are lackluster. Added 
to the composition window is an “auto-suggest” feature, which 
works just like the auto-complete features in Outlook Express and 
Netscape Mail that attempt to guess the e-mail address of your 
correspondent (assuming you've stored it in your address book). 
Outgoing e-mail messages now display the service's yellow “running 
man” icon next to the name of recipients who are currently online, 
in case you want to IM them instead. For members who check e-mail 
via AOL Mobile Communicator, check in at Keyword: AOL Wireless, 
where you can learn about the latest wireless plans, as well as other 
AOL initiatives, including AOL for PDAs and AOL by Phone. 


4 download it? 
is) 


Most changes to AOL 7.0 are almost entirely cosmetic, so there’s 
no need for subscribers to scramble to upgrade. The software 
is compatible with Windows XP but requires XP users to 
have Internet Explorer 6.0. With Windows 95, 98, ME, or 
2000, you need only IE §.x or greater. Of course, the AOL soft- 
ware is as enormous as ever, demanding from 118MB to 233MB 
of disk space (depending on your OS). And keep in mind that 
you can install this upgrade without deleting previous versions— 


just in case you don’t like it. ROB BERNSTEIN 


www.yil.com > January 2002 


qq |_ TD 


47 


webusec 


sucf gucu 


MAKE SENSE OF YOUR E-MAIL MESS; 
ARE RECORDABLE DVDs READY FOR PRIME TIME? 


Q)? | need to keep most of my incoming and outgo- 
ing e-mail messages. Is there an easy way to organize 
them and keep them safe? 

A)» Asan e-mail pack rat from way back, | know 
what a nightmare tracking down old correspon- 


dence can be. Fortunately, for people like us, there's 
Mailbag Assistant [fookes.com], a PC-only pro- 
gram that works with your existing e-mail client 


to organize messages. The software offers various 


rching tools, as an archiving feature 


for storing many thousands of missives. Mailbag 
As 


istant is free to try and $29.95 to buy. 


Q)» Should | download MSN Explorer? Is it better than 
Internet Explorer? 

A> While I like MSN Explorer's playful and sim- 
ple interface (it provides lots of cutesy icons), it’s 
clearly geared to the beginner. As Microsoft's lat- 
est entry in the browser market, it integrates Hot- 
mail, MSN Messenger, and other MSN services 
into a single package. But Internet Explorer 6.0 af- 


fords you way more control over the total brows- 
ing experience; MSN Explorer, for instance, doesn’t let you 
change its home page and lacks an accessible history file or a 
customizable toolbar for links. My advice: If you're comfortable 
:, stick with it. However, if curiosity gets the better of 


no harm in taking MSN Explorer for a spin. It’s a 
small download (a svelte 5MB), and it won't overwrite Inter- 


net Explorer. 


Q)» Is there such a thing as a DVD player that will let me record movies? 
A> Yes. Recordable DVD drives have been available to con- 


aol watch 


Ee ED 


48 Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


If your computer is dragging as you 
surf the Net, the culprit may be a bloated 
cache. A cache is a temporary stor- 
_age place on your hard drive for site 


info; browsers store this data locally 
so that sites you've visited recently will 
load faster when you return to them. 


In AOL, the cache can get too fulland | 


sumers for several months. But chances are you don’t want one yet. 
Like seemingly all new technology products, this one has two com- 
peting digital media formats: DVD+RW and DVD-RAM. It’s 
too soon to say which standard will win out—so buy at your own 


risk. Also, these drives are quite expensive (ranging from $500 to 


$1,000) and tend to record rather slowly (it can take up to an hour 
. If I still haven’t succeeded in dis- 


to save a 4GB movie to di 
suading you from purchasing a recordable DVD player, consider 
this final point: The movie industry has made certain that you can- 
not directly record your DVD movies onto blank DVD discs. 


drain PC resources, so it's a tary Internet Files, click Delete 


EDDIE BOWEN/WWW.COSMO7.COM. 


good idea to clear it now and MORE/GURU Files. Also see Cache Killer 
then. Click the Settings menu [ii RA Pro Il [cachekiller.com] and 
and choose Preferences. Click [iti tel: 0) Cache & Cookie Washer for | 
Internet Properties andthen, (MRUECeMeUSUR America Online [webroot. 
under the heading Tempo- _com/washaol.html. 


“(The Superbit™ titles) are doozies! When friends 
come over, now you can really show off! Rating A.” 
- ENTERTAINMENT WEEKLY 


“Spectacular” 
-The Wall Street Journal 


“Superbit™ is the superstar of DVD!” 
~ Mark A, Rivera, GENRE ON LINI 


THE EVOLUTION 
OF, DYD1S HERE! 


Pure Performance JW 


Toned 


SHIFT YOUR HOME ENTERTAINMENT 
SYSTEMINTO HIGH GEAR! 


PURE PICTURE ANE SUI wi ace NO LIMITATIONS 


i USE your EXISTING HOME 
EQUIPMENT TOITS OPTIMAL 


NOW YOU HAVE A GHOIGE 
IN DVD VIEWING 


SUPSREIT 


iio 
ts 
\re ( 


BUY THEM TODAY AT COLUMBIA TRISTAR 
amazon.com. 
DO [eotey |<its| 
DIGITAL *°USP HOME ENTERTAINMENT 
000 Cabana tures ncustes he Al Pi Reserve a 


cd ¢ 
Peres Inui, ted CoV, Ai eges fiesevod 197 Benin Comune Garg Ml Ris Reseed. 
{937 Couna Peres ites AL Rpts Reseed 198 Tr Pte ne A apt ene >8 Canta Pres dees: AUR ase 


50 


EBERT TO 


INTERNET: 


OH, GROW UP! 


Childhood is over, It’s time for the Internet to grow up 
and get serious. In these uneasy days, the Net seems more 
than ever a lifeline of communication and sanity. When phone 
lines were overloaded on September 11, it was a way to get in 
touch with friends and family. When the anthrax scourge sur- 
faced, the Net was an alternative to the postal service. And 
when the editor of the Arizona Daily Star announced that she 


ssed 


would stop accepting snail-mail letters to the editor, we cr 
some sort of symbolic line. 

Was it only threemonths ago that I published a column 
here about,.c-mailétiquette? The column was written pre~Sep- 
tember 11, an innocent time. Now we need to look harder 
at how our society can be responsible about the Internet. 
are some ideas: 

1. Worl 
d to outlaw spam. We have a 


ble, enforceable laws must 


be pa 


finite amount of time available in which 


to deal with e-mail and, with its in- 


creasing importance, the maddening 
8 


daily infection of porn promos and get- 
rich-quick scams has to stop. It is a 
waste of bandwidth and a theft of time. 

2. E-mail programs such as Out- 


look Express and Eudora should be 


revised by their makers in four ways: 


a. All outgoing messages should be 


automatically configured as pure text 
by default. Messages involving display 


typefaces, colors, or HTML language 


should be queried with a message box: “This formatting wil 


increase the size of your mes 


age by x times, consuming band- 


width and extending the recipient’s download time. Are 
you sure you want to do this?” 

b. A Block Address button, such as the one in Yahoo! Mail 
and MSN Hotmail 
process of setting up a Mail Rule to block a spammer. 


, should replace Outlook Express’s five-step 


c. When a message arrives that was also sent to many other 


people, the program's default reply mode should send only 


to the single address that sent the message to you. A default 


of Reply to All clogs the mailboxes of uninterested strangers 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


The Internet can 
replace unnecessary don’t know how to send and receive 
trips, not only with 
videoconferencing, 
but also with 
message boards, 
where business 
partners can 
update each other 


and can expose private e-mail addresses to spammers. 
d. E-mail software that opens attached binaries or runs scripts 
should include virus-detecting defenses that do not allow down- 


loaded files to do anything until they are scanned. These defenses 
would auto-update as necessary, Viruses are too serious a threat 
to Net health to be left to optional stand-alone programs. 

3.1 


downturn in ai 


yourself; Is this trip really necessary? The dramatic 


travel revealed that many trips were not. Some 
business travel was revealed as busywork. You fly in and see the 


guy, you fly out, you're still on the phone with him the next day. 


The Internet can replace unnecessary trips, not only with video- 


conferencing, but also with message boards, where business part- 


ners can update each other daily or hourly, 


What about an easy way to set up an online videoconference? 


It has been more than 10 years since I 


first saw the pioneering CUseeMe 


demonstrated, and most Netizens 


live str 


ming video, set up an online 
video chat, or hold an online confer- 


ence, Since most users want to do the 


same thing (“set up a videoconference 


with this address or these address 
ways to do it should be automated. The 
portal site that makes this happen 
will have a killer app on its hands. 

4. Ask yourself: Is this snail mail 


really necessary? Take my corner of the 


world as an example: I hate to break 


studios tha 


this news to the movi 


send me press releases, 
but I never open any of them. I find out everything I need to 


know on the Web. Instead of printing and mailing elaborate 


press kits, the studios should post downloadable artwork on 


the Web (some do) and assign someone to update The Internet 


Movie Database limdb.coml entries for their new releases. 


At some point in the past 10 years, using the Net stopped 


being an option and be: 


ame a requirement. It’s time to 
discourage the irresponsible forwarders, formatters, and 
spammers who misuse it. How does the song go? “You don’t 


know what you've got till it’s gone.” m 


PAUL ELLEDGE 


ae POL 


TTS LIKE RUNNING ANY 


OTHER BUSINESS. EXCEPT THE 
SNAKES ARE EASIER TO RECOGNIZE. 


nk BO RO 


SH 
ie 
en 


pi ee 


\ SOME SNAKES ARE MORE 
POISONOUS THAN OTHERS, 


(A VIOLENCE 
\3 2) ~Micresoft  mictosott.com/games/zootycoon 


52 


ANGELA GUNN @ 


ES Sd ee OS 


ARE SPAMMERS 
-TERRORISTS? 


Q: J want to talk about thie incredible amount of spam I get, 
without having handed out my e-mail address to more than a 
few friends. Spammers are electronic terrorists 


They waste our 
time, bandwidth, and more. So why don’t we enlist the other 
_ e-terrorists, the denial-of-seryice guys, and harness their 
talents? Why can’t a haridful of such blue-chip comps 
Yahoo! 
those ISPs that are specifically set up to service and hide spam- 


nies as 


ay these guys to launch unrelenting DoS att 


mers—or that simply don’t eare about how they earn revenue? 
A: Tell you what. Promise me you'll reserve the term “terrorist” 
for people who truly, cause terror rather than extreme annoyance, 
and in retutil’llexplain how/to¥get these oafs off your back. 
First off, denialeofservice attackers, who bombard Web 
servers with so much garbage that they knock the computers 
offline, aren't talented, Usually they're 
“script kiddies”—unskilled, would-be 
hackers using other people’s code to 
f, Doing DoS bom- 
bardment on spam-friendly ISPs, 


make mischie 


though appealing payback, is prob- 
lematic since denial-of-service attacks 


clog the rest of the Net with junk, too. 


Instead, acquaint yourself with the 
guys who play whack-a-mole with spam- 
mers for a living. The smart folks be- 
hind @MAPS: Mail Abuse Prevention 
System [mail-abuse.org] keep a “black 
hole” list of troublemakers, and they 
have excellent ethical procedures for 
sorting out spammers. Closer to home, many ISPs can help 
you shoot down spammers before their junk e-mail reaches 
you; check with your e-mail provider to see how to set up 
your system to automatically trash-can that rubbish. When you 
do get spammed, forward a copy with as much header infor- 
mation as possible to your ISP's abuse desk; you can find the 
address at the Network Abuse Clearinghouse [abuse.netl. 


Q: When is it all right to link to other people's Web sites? 
A: Sometimes. Since the Web was built to allow people to link 
computers to other computers, you'd think it would always be 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


Attackers who ae 
bombard Web 
servers with so 
much garbage that 
they knock the 
computers offline 
are usual 
kiddies"— 
would-be hackers 


okay to link, especially if you're linking because you admire 
someone's page. Not so fast! Sometimes linking can hurt the 
sites you love (the ones you shouldn’t hurt at all). 

Links hurt if they cause unwelcome traffic to the site to 


which you're linking, For example, because of the curious work- 


ings of HTML, it’s possible to display something on your 


site that’s sitting on the server of another site. That means that 
when someone sees it on your page, you're creating traffic for 
that other server. Ifit happens too often, it can cost that server 
money, since most Web hosts charge additional fees if a site 


exceeds its monthly traffic allotment. Basically, you should 


never present someone else’s Web content as your own. If you 


want to use other sites’ pictures on your site, send them a 


ng permission, Oh, and always give them credit for 
the image, plus a link back to their site 
if they want one. 


an also be harmful if they 


divert traffic from a site. Years ago, 
Microsoft and Ticketmaster squab- 
bled when Microsoft linked to a num- 
ber of TM pages without permission. 
The ticketing giant claimed that the 


software giant was costing them rev- 


ly "Scri pt enue by “deep linking” people directly 


to ticketing pages, bypassing all the 


unskilled, 


banner ads they would normally have 
seen along the way, Eventually the 
two companies bitch-slapped each 
other through the courts and into a 
settlement. Some site owners (usually big corporate ones 
trying to sell ads) are still touchy about anyone entering 
through anything but the front door. 

Generally, however, it’s okay to make a check-out-this-cool- 
site link from your personal Web pages. Big sites generally don’t 
d to hear from a fan. 


care, and little sites are usually pleas 
Find an e-mail address for the site proprietor and ask. If you 
don’t hear back, assume you've got the all-clear. Just don’t give 
them a lot of traffic or take a lot of traffic away. Got that? = 


Right? Wrong? Write: angela_gunn@ziffdavis.com 


JAY GULLIXSON 


AN AMAZING 
PILLAGE. 


DON 6H le ae 
VANISH WITHOUT 
A TRACE. 


1.800.CALL.WWE 
www.worldwildlife.org/act 


54 


YE 


ROBERT SCHEER @ 


| SUPPORT 


Sees wae 


A NATIONAL ID CARD 


Qh October 26, President Bush signed into law the USA Pa- 
triot Act of 2001, which inelides measures that extend the 
FBI's ability to snoop on your email and Web surfing. Now 
it looks ry 
high-tech identity cards—tamperproof hunks of plastic packed 


s though a number of legislators want us all to cz 


with digitized fingerprints, retinal scans, and biometric mark- 
ers—all backed by a massive government database. Attorney 
General John Ashcroft and Sen. Dianne Feinstein, who heads 
the Senate subcommittee on terrorism, strongly support the 


idea, but there’s resistanee from elsewhere in the executive 
branch} as well as front privacy activists. 

T've gotsomesiéws for you, folks: 
cards won’tdo much to stop terrorism. But you know what? 


as 


These futuristic 1D 


I’m for them anyway. Yes, you heard right: A scheme like 
this, properly implemented, could ac- 
tually enhance our privacy. 

But before we get to that, let’s talk 
about this antiterrorism angle that 
the usual suspects are touting so 
strongly. While it might help a little, 
it’s nota real solution. All of the hi- 
jackers who attacked the World Trade 
Center and Pentagon were traveling 
on passports issued by other govern- 
ments, with more than half coming 
from “friendly” Saudi Arabia, Ter- 
rorism is international—an ID card 
system would have to be worldwide 
to be effective in fighting it. 

However, when it comes to such increasingly problem- 
atic issues as identity theft and online fraud—not to men- 
tion domestic law enforcement—an ID card with a purely 
domestic scope could be an invaluable addition to our per- 
sonal security, both financial and physical. 

A very profitable criminal industry has developed because 
of the current ease of identity theft, throwing an alarming, 
number of us into expensive, time-consuming, and Kafkaesque 


ody: 


sseys to reclaim our credit ratings and banking privileges. 
If a firewall was created between the card’s use as an iden- 


tity check and all the other personal information that now 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


We're willin 
to accept anti- 
_ terrorism umably, the be far 
shred the Fourth i difficult to forge than a driver's license, 

Amendment. 

hy not accept a 
scheme that == 
might afford us 
more privacy? 


attaches itself to our other I Ds, this problem would evaporate. 
Imagine being able to prove to an e-commerce merchant 
that you are you, without having to provide your billing ad- 
dress, Social Security number, or driver's license. When 
the time came, you'd put your ID card into a reader attached 
to your PC, and the magic of strong encryption would do 
the rest, assuring the merchant—and no one else—that you're 
you. The merchant would have a list of your purchases and 
shipping information (use a PO, box for maximum anonymity), 
but where your name would normally be there would be just 
anumber, To get paid for what you've bought, the merchant 
would present the number to your credit card company, 
which would be the only entity with the power to link it to 
your name. That would effectively short-circuit the selling 
of your personal data to third parties, 


including telemarketers and stalkers. 


Obviously, such a card would also 


be a boon to law enforcement. Pre- 


ills that | 


sumably, the cards would be far more 


allowing for quick and easy positive or 


negative identification, and simplify- 
ing and strengthening security at air- 


and sensitive buildings, Of course, 
such a system needs to be planned care- 
fully, and legislative precautions need 
to be enacted to guard against the abuse 
of such a centralized and powerful per- 
sonal information cache. 

Today’: 


privacy rights. Apparently we're willing to accept antiter- 


s world requires a willing sacrifice of some of our 


rorism bills that shred the Fourth Amendment by making 
it legal to read or scan all e-mail without a court order. Why 
not accept a scheme that might actually afford us more privacy 
than we had before? An ID card system, properly constructed, 
might just prove the least messy and most accurate way of 
revealing who we are, when—and only when—the circum- 


stance demands a complete and honest answer. = 


Aseem Batra [aseembatra@hotmail.com] contributed to this column. 


BLAKE LITTLE 


MODERN een 


HUMORIST’ : i 
DHUMORIST's Resolved: Read more. Get in shape. 


RESOLUTIONS [ita And make money from home! 


January 1, 2008 


— I resolve to check my amihotornot.com rankings no more than three 
times a day. 


— I resolve to no longer Google all potential dates. 


_ I resolve to stop visiting XXX porn sites. In the future I will visit only 
XX sites. 


_ I resolve to spend less time in chatrooms. That time would be better 
spent instant messaging. 


— I resolve to follow up on that “Make Money From Home” e-mail I keep 
receiving. 


_— I resolve to stop taking negative eBay feedback personally. They’re just 
jealous of my vintage lunch-box collection. 


_ I resolve to start buying CDs again so that hardworking, talented 
artists like Staind and *N Sync can get ripped off by record companies 
instead of by me. 


_ T resolve to download only MP3s of songs I already own on cassette, 
even though this means limiting my MPS selection to Ratt, Arrested 
Development, and Wang Chung. 


_ I resolve to shift my entire stock portfolio into 
e-businesses. Nowhere to g0 but up, baby! 


_ TL resolve to finally build a fan page devoted to plucky Olympic 
champion Misty Hyman. 


_ I resolve to find a way to retrieve that one new message that seems to 
wait for me at the top of certain sites. It’s been very hard to get at, but 
I won’t give up. 


_ I resolve to buy a Web cam. They’re tiny and wireless! 


_ I resolve to find a buyer on eBay for my Star Wars ice planet Hoth 
adventure set who will meet my $115 reserve, as I have kept it in 
pristine condition. 


— I resolve to recover removable jet pack belonging to Boba Fett figure in 
said play set. Jet pack thought to be lost in fit of youthful exuberance. 
(Sandbox?) 


_ Finally, I resolve to use the Web as a Daily humor magazine Modern 
forum for the open exchange of ideas, Humorist's new book is Rough Draft: 
a facilitator of global communication, Pop Culture the Way It Almost Was 
and the most efficient marketplace ever. Imodernhumorist.com/roughdraftl. 
And not just as a XX porn paradise. 


OUR PICKS 


56 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


EVENT OF THE YEAR 


Challenger blew up and the country kept going. 
Kennedy died in Dallas and the country kept 
going. The stock market crashed; Lincoln slumped 
bloody in a Ford's Theatre box seat. The coun- 
try kept going. That's what it does. After we pause 
and watch, aghast, and wonder how we'll ever 
move on from the horror, we do. This time, as 
we confronted a nation irrevocably.changed, we 
faced our rage and sorrow with the Net at our 
side. E-mail and instant messaging were vital 


' | lifelines for those in and out of Manhattan and 


Washington, D.C. News sites and personal Web 
diaries offered an intense range of information 
and analysis. Reaction across a global medium 
was never so immediate—or so maddening, 
accessible, or important. 


SITE OF THE YEAR 


We can't stop reliving that day, in video footage 
and in our nightmares, over and over. To preserve 
the vast amount of online data created after the 
World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks, the Li- 
brary of Congress, WebArchivist.org and the 
Internet Archive saved a copy of every available 
Web page covering the attacks and put together 


ck Machine's September 11 collection. 


Weighing in at more than 5 terabytes (that’s 5 mil- 
lion megabytes) of material, this free digital library 
will provide a permanent record for future surfers 


and scholars seeking to reconstruct the day. 


FIREFIGHTERS: AP/WIDE WORLD PHOTOS; ASHCROFT: AP/WIDE WORLD PHOTOS; BUSINESSMAN: BETSIE VAN DER MEER/GETTYONE 


| John and Jane Does of the Net, take a bow. 
When the pundits and venture capitalists 
| said the Net boom was over, you ignored 
| them even more thoroughly than when they'd 
said buying cat food online was a good idea. 
Actually, your personal use of the Net has 
heated up. And you're a more diverse crew 
than ever: Four out of five American kids 
were using the Internet in 2001, as were 15 
percent of the country's senior citizens and 
two-thirds of U.S. small businesses. But you 


weren't perfect. Far too many of you are more 
interested in sending cheesy e-cards and 
forwarding bad jokes than in keeping an eye 
on the political issues that protect your Net 
access. Nonetheless, in the past few years, 
good common sense hasn't been rewarded 
nearly enough when it comes to things Netty. 
| This one's for you. 


| PERSON OF THE YEAR You> — 


COVER STORY 


<FIGHT OF THE YEAR Privacy 


vs. Secu rity In this corner: Attorney 
General John Ashcroft, the intelligence com- 


munity, hundreds of skittish congressional 


critters eager to do something, and the fear 
that, even if the Internet and cryptography 
werent usedin the last attack, they're bound 
to be part of the next one. In that corner: 


Sen, Patrick Leahy.(D-Ve), Sen. Russ Fein- 


gold (D-Wis.), the Electronic Frontier Foun- 
dation, hundreds of experts who question 
the ability and usefulness of any currently 
existing online security technology, and a 
couple of sections of the Constitution. 


Referee: the Supremes, eventually. The mat: 


your freedom. No matter who wins, it’s 


going to take a trampling 


VILLAIN OF THE YEAR 
Virus Writers Thiswas the year we’ | 
started looking at our mail very closely, both 
online and off. While e-mail viruses might be 
less life-threatening than anthrax, they nev- 
ertheless made a mess that cost Net users 
well over $11 billion. We'd say these digital 
hellions showed more skill than sense, ex- 
cept that most of them didn't reflect any skill, 
either. The class of 2001 virus writers were, 
more often than not, “script kiddies” using 
prewritten virus programs to cook up their 
little annoyances. Why? To prove their 133t 
skillz? (That's hackerese for “elite skills.") 
To make a statement about social injustice? 
To strike a blow against big, bad Microsoft? 
No. They did it for the same reason that 
their parents egged the neighbor's house 
on Halloween when they were young. Prob- 
lem is, it's extremely difficult to take $11 
billion out of someone's allowance. 


www.yil.com> January 2002 57, 


SURVIVOR OF THE YEAR Free Music 

As Metallica, Hilary Rosen, and the Recording Industry Association of America led the charge 
against Napster, the poster child for file-sharing and free music, those who understood how 
the Internet and its people work sat back and laughed. Sure, the courts might be able to pum- 
mel a service that was silly enough to tell them where it lived and who was in charge, but what 
can they do about programs without a central authority? When Napster was forced to reg- 
ulate itself, its copycats gained a dividend: vast numbers of displaced users. Now, instead of 
having all the troublemakers in one place, where they could more easily be reprogrammed 
into paying for their music, all of us—uh, we mean all of you—music-sharing roaches scur- 
ried under different pieces of kitchen furniture, becoming that much more difficult to find, 
And while Hilary hasn't given up the fight (not by along shot), the lack of a central brand is 
making free music harder than ever to fight. In the meantime, sites such as Audiogalaxy, 
LimeWire, Kazaa, and BearShare continue letting the music flow freely. 


58 Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


TREND OF THE YEAR Weblogs [fthisis the year of the average Joe, big props to 


feel tai bt his soapbox: the weblog. Known as blogs, these do-it-yourself online diaries are arguably the easiest way 
Fa to make a wave in the Web's ocean. Feeling really lazy? Type your profound thoughts into a ready-made 
blog form; a site such as Blogger [blogger.com] or Pitas.com will build a Web page and put it online for 
you. The snobs of the Web world might think less of blogs for being so clearly and unabashedly labors of 
love. But with a galaxy of participants weighing in—from high-school students to professional writers and 
artists—blogging supplied the Net with the freshest voices of the year. 


TECH OF THE YEAR 
(YOURS) E-Mail The Internet's 
original killer app turned 30 sometime in 
October. Fittingly enough for a humble work- 
horse of a technology, e-mail's father, Ray 
Tomlinson, doesn't remember exactly when 
the first message was sent. Nor does he 
remember exactly what it said. (We person- 
ally suspect that it was spam hawking cheap 
rubber-stamp pads.) In 2001, hundreds of 
millions of e-mail addresses exchanged a 
simply unthinkable number of messages. And 
though not every one carried the poignancy 
of September 11 's raft of “Are you OK?" and 
“oh my God" messages, we wouldn't trade 
e-mail for any of the Net's glitzier realms. 
Bonus: Attachments may carry viruses, but no 
one's yet found a way to enclose powders. 


TECH OF THE YEAR 
(THEIRS) Surveillance 


Through the month of August, increased 
concern about online privacy kept sur- 
veillance advocates on the run. The gov- 
ernment’s Carnivore monitoring system 
drew gales of protest from technology 
experts and civil libertarians, while much 
attention was focused on what businesses 
might be doing with consumers’ all- 
important purchasing information, That 
was then. These days, no one’s talking much 
about buyers’ rights. In the weeks since 
September 11, surveillance advocates have 
made astonishing gains (at the expense of 
constitutional rights, according to privacy 
watchdogs and civil libertarians), with 
little or no evidence that the gathered in- 
formation will be handled responsibly or 
analyzed effectively. Will collecting masses 
of raw data on every Net user actually 
protect anyone from anything? The tech 
community is doubtful, but it’s hard to 
make oneself heard during a stampede. 


NAILE GOELBASI/GETTYONE 


SPEARS: AP/WIDE WORLD PHOTOS; NOSTRADAMUS: CHRIS 


HELLIER/CORBIS; EMINEM: JAMES K, BURNS/RETNA; 


DOTCOMGUY: DANNY TURNER 


TH 


YOUR PICKS:\Amid the most searched-for, 
some familiar names, places, and faces—and a few éyebrow-raisers 


Serene 


HARTS 


and read are 


watched, 


THE MOST SEARCHED-FOR 
NAMES OF THE YEAR* 


Britney Spears The pop-music princess is 
now a three-time Most Searched-For Female celeb. 
Eminem The controversial rapper gets male- 
celeb props for the second consecutive year. 
Nostradamus After September 11, surfers 
flocked to Google and AOL seeking prophetic verses, 
making hisname 2001's fastest-rising search term. 


What would Nostradamus say? 
In the year of the island city's calamity 
When the people seek truth in elevens 
Two volatile stars will emerge again 
As pinnacles sought by the masses. 


One, whose false twin towers doth 
Provoke the doleful one to priapic joy; 
T'other that melteth in the mouth 

Yet in the hand remaineth whole. 


But yea, an ancient prophet shall rise up 

With verses that confuse yet tantalize 

He shall usurp the thrones of false royalty 

Who hypnotize the masses with their dross.”* 
“Picking the Most Searched-for: We asked the major portals—AltaVista, Google, Lycos, 
AOL, and Yahoo! Buzz Index—to report their top search terms for the year, Names plac- 


ing first on the majority of sites won the category. 
**We'te kidding. This is a made-up, would-be prophecy. Notreally by Nostradamus. Sorry. 


T O P S | T E S The year's most-traveled Web sites 


OVERALL | 
1 YAHOO! [yahoo.com | 
2 MSN Imsn.com} 

3 AOL [aol.com 


music 

1 REAL [real.com! 

2 NAPSTER Inapster.com} 
3 WINDOWSMEDIA.COM 


NEWS/INFO | GAMES 

1 MSNBC Imsnbe.coml | 1 MSN GAMES tzone.coml 
2. CNN.COM, WEATHER.COM (tie) 2 EA.COM 

3. THE NEW YORK TIMES 3 POGO.COM 


ON THE WEB Inytimes.coml 


TRAVEL SALES 


SPORTS | 1 EXPEDIA.COM 
1 ESPN [espn.com) | 2 TRAVELOCITY.COM 
2 CBS SPORTSLINE.COM 3 SOUTHWEST 
[sportsline.com] 
3. CNN SPORTS ILLUSTRATED Deen 
ennsi.coml 


AUTO 
1 KELLEY BLUE BOOK tkbb.com! 
2 MSN CARPOINT [carpoint.com} 
3 AUTOTRADER.COM 


CAREER 
1 MONSTER.COM 
2 JOBSONLINE 
[jobsonline.com! 
3 HOTIOBS thotjobs.coml 


PERSONAL FINANCE 
1 MSN MONEY 
Imoneycentral.com] 
2. CBS.MARKETWATCH.COM 
3 NEXTCARD Inextcard.com] 


REAL ESTATE 
1 REALTOR.COM 
2 MSN HOMEADVISOR 
thomeadvisor.com] 
3 HOMESTORE.COM sites 


YoLie compiled these lists using data fom monthly 
| Nelsen/NetRatings and Jupiter Media Mex traffic 


| RETAIL reports Ura ough epee 2000 Nebr 
1 AMAZON.COM Ratings (now NetRatings) tracked, via its proprietary. 
2. AMERICANGREETINGS.COM technology, the sting habts of 7.000 home and 
3 BIZRATE.COM office users, Jupiter tacked, wa random-sampling 


| surveys, ste vists of 60.000 home and office users, 
| 


+ 


TIMELINE 


IN THE FIRST CASE OF 

its kind, a virtual carnage 
takes place among Diablo 
ll gamers: Hackers infiltrate 
the community and 
execute legions of 
hard-earned wizards 


and warriors. 


AFTER 366 DAYS OF using 
solely the Net to get food, 
other essentials, and enter- 
tainment, DotComGuy 
emerges from his Dallas 
apartment. Sponsor offers 
were generous; whether 
the backers paid up 


remains unclear. 


| FEBRUARY 
DOT-COM DEATHWATCH, 
Part 782,839,920: 


| eToys.com. 


THE NAPSTER SAGA 
continues: A federal 


appeals court finds the 


free-music service guilty of 


copyright infringernent. 


wwwzyil.com > January 2002 


59, 


| 


Thus begins the site's long, 
tortuous descent into 
corporate ownership and 


increasing irrelevance. 


MARCH 

THE EBAY AUDIENCE 
grows by 4 million, to 22.13 
million visitors, in March— 
nudging out Amazon.com 
by about 50,000 users— 
according to 


Nielsen/NetRatings. 


MADONNA'S BANNED- 
from-MTV What It Feels 
Like for a Girl video finds a 


new and popular life on the 
Net via an exclusive AOL 
Webcast deal. 


A SOTHEBYS.COM auction 
of Marilyn Monroe memo- 
rabilia, including a typed 
letter from the White 
House thanking her for an 
appearance at President 
John F. Kennedy's birthday 
party, draws $417,478 in 
the site's three-week, 


online-only event. 


APRIL 
DOT-COM DEATHWATCH, 
Part 996,001,724: 


Kozmo.com. 


AFTER BEING SOLD— 


through an online adoption 


agency (once to a British 


sorry, brokered—twice | 


TOP PRESCRIPTION 

Propecia 

Viagra may hold a special place in men's medicine 
cabinets, but it was Propecia, a popular weapon in 
the fight against male pattern baldness, that beat 
out all other prescriptions-at Drugstore.com, the 
Web's most popular pharmacy stop. 


TOP NEWS EVENT 9.11.01 AtcnN.com, 
| traffic increased 680 percent in the 48 hours following 
the attacks on New York City and Washington, D.C; its 11.7 
million surfers made it the most-visited news site of the 
crisis. ABCNews.com, CBS News [cbsnews.coml, Fox 
News Channel [foxnews.coml, and MSNBC [msnbc.com] 
also reported the event as the most-trafficked of the year. 


TOP LIVE WEBCAST U2 at Notre 
Dame Unive rsity The fighting Irish yielded 
the field to the singing Irish on October 10. Bono and the 
boys played to a sold-out stadium and 5 million surfers 
watching at Real [real.coml, U2.com, and Tiscali [tiscali.it] 


| TOP DOWNLOAD ICO tts chock-full of 
| arcane commands and looks like the control panel of a nu- 
clear reactor. Yet AOL's ICQ instant-messaging program, the 
geeky sibling of AOL Instant Messenger, took top billing 
at Download.com and HotFiles.com. (AOL would not com- 
ment on AIM download figures at AOL [aol.coml.) 


TOP PALM CHANNEL The Wall 
Street Journal Theynced their news and they 
need it now—in the palms of their hands: Street-sawvy 
surfers chose the Journal most at AvantGo [avantgo.coml. 
Now if only the market could get this active again. 


TOP E-BOOK AUTHOR James 
Patterson (Roses Are Red and 
ist to Die) Thriller novelist James Patterson 
knocks reigning e-book champion Stephen King from 
the perch, topping the online-best-seller lists at both 
iPublish.com.and Powells.com 


TOP FILE-SHARING SITE Audio- 
galaxy [audiogalaxy.com] Peer-to- 


peer pioneer Napster started out the year as an un- 


touchable juggernaut. But after a June court order blocked | 


90 percent of its music roster, dejected audiophiles 
turned to this new Web-based service. By. October, the 
upstart had racked up more than 26 million downloads 
at CNET: Download.com [download.com] and-ZDNet 
Downloads [zdnet.com/downloadsl. 


TOP AUCTION SALE Gulfstream 
Il jet After unveiling a new aviation category over 
the summer, eBay trafficked its highest-selling item ever 
on August 16: a luxury 12-passenger Gulfstream Il jet. It 
fetched $49 million from an African charter company. 


TOP MULTIPLAYER GAME 
Diablo Il Expansion Set: Lord of 
Destruction In Diablo IJ, Satan lets loose ina 
ieval realm and th 


hell to pay. Game publisher 
‘d Entertainment scored a huge hit with this ex- 


pansion pack. It was the best-selling multiplayer ad- 


venture of 2001, and the second-best-selling game of 


the year (topped only by Maxis’ The Sims). 


MADONNA: AP/WIDE WORLD PHOTOS; MAN WITH PILLS: JEFF STEPHENS; DIABLO II: COURTESY BLIZZARD.COM 


| 
60 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


Y RON THE NE 


U2: RANKIN/CAMERA PRESS/RETNA; PITT AND ROBERTS: KEVIN WINTER/IMAGE DIRECT; NAKEDNEWS GUY: AP/WIDE WORLD PHOTOS 


MOST DOWNLOADED BAND 


Fans have driven 
the quirky New York band's monthly single-cut releases to 
the top of the ratings heap again at Emusic [emusic.coml. 


TOP RADIO STATION 


“Karma Chameleon.” “99 Luft Bal- 


TOP ONLINE SHORT FILM 


and Dave Macomber directed this mesmerizing, computer-generated homage, part of the iFilm lifilm.coml library, in 
which a Sith apprentice is tested in the dark arts of Jedi combat. Get in on the nastiness at Duality [www.crewoftwo.coml. 


loons.” “Come on Eileen.” We thought Moby had led 
us beyond the era of bad synthesizers and worse hair. 
But NetRadio listeners proved everyone wrong, spend~ 
ing nearly 2 million hours of listening time on-this 


retro-minded station. Unfortunately, though, it seems 


that overwhelming support isn’t enough to keep you | 


afloat these days—its parent company, NetRadio.com, 


bit the dust in October. 


Die-hard Star Wars fans Mark Thomas 


TOP CHATS Celebrity gab sessions on the Web were at one 
time a shoo-in for high ratings. But these days, surfers have their 
sights on headlines, too. This eclectic mix of chats and news events 
rose above the small talk at the Web's most talkative venues. 


September 6, MTV.com, where performers included the band U2 


February 18, AOL [aol.com] 
September 14, CNN.com 


September 16, MSNBC [msnbc.com] 


June 15, Yahoo! Chat [chatyahoo.coml 


THE TOP OF THE CHARTS TEAM: Meaghan O'Neill, Rob Bernstein 


&TIMELINE 


| couple for $12,000), 10- 
month-old twins Kiara and 
Keyara Wecker are 


retumed to St. Louis and 


placed in state custody. 


AFTER YEARS OF 
Webcasting daily 


anchorwomen, Naked 
News introduces its first 


male anchor. 


THE NBA WEBCASTS A full 
game for the first time: the 
Sacramento Kings vs. the 


Dallas Mavericks. 


THE SAGA OF SEX.COM, 
arguably the Web's most 
valuable URL, ends with a 
$65 million judgment in fa- 
vor of its current owner, 
Gary Kremien, who uses it 
to host’a sex-oriented por- 


tal and search engine. 


REACTING TO A CHINESE 

| jet fighter's April collision 
with a U.S. surveillance 

plane (and the ensuing 
international crisis), hackers 
from both countries declare 

a May Day cyberwar. The 
“Honker Union of China” 
takes credit for the 


news reports by nude | 


defacing of 1,000 sites, in- | 


cluding those of MCI and 
the U.S. Departments of 
Labor and Energy, in 
response to American 
hacker attacks. 


www.yil.com bJanuary 2002 64 


TIMELINE 


IN A WIDE-RANGING 
sweep of online porn, 
Yahoo! removes links to 
some of its adult-themed 
clubs, message boards, 


and chatrooms. 


AS DOT-COMS CONTINUE 
their downward spiral, the 
film Startup.com, an indie 
documentary, captures the 


frustrations of former tech 


GovWorks.com. 


THE EXECUTION OF 
convicted Oklahoma City 
bomber Timothy McVeigh 
won't be broadcast online 
after all, A federal judge 
rejects a request by 
Entertainment Network, 
sponsor of such 
controversial sites as 
Voyeurdorm.com. The 
network was planning to 

| charge viewers $1.95 for the 


Webcast. 


JUNE 
THE NAPSTER SAGA: THE 


reeling site surrenders its 


" 
| 
| 


zillionaires at | 


THE NET 


| PICS AND CLICKS Yes, 


he would swear off e-mail completely. 


I 


Am | running this half¥- 
baked, time-wasting device 
into the ground or not? Am 
| Hot or Not? was funny. So was Am | a Geek or Not? 
And Modern Humorist's Monkey Hot or Not? But Am 1a 
| Clone of My Father or Not? Am | a Gay Puerto Rican Mak- 
ing Out With a Clown or Not? Am | a Bad Televangelist 
Hair Wearing Dork or Not? If you're enjoying this, visit Am 
| This or Not? [iamcal.com/ami/list.phpl. 


| 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


| 


it was a sobering year, 
that didn't stop mirth and mischief online 


but 


| So much for that bridge to the 21st century Shortly after George W. Bush's inau- 
guration, The White House [whitehouse.gov] remained under construction (with "Insert Something Meaningful 
Here” in place of one headline). Later, fearing pesky future open-records requests, the president announced that 


You had us at “upskirt” 

Tennis star Anna Kournikova found herself in the 
spotlight when one fan created the harmless but an- 
noying Anna-worm,-an-e-mail-with-an attachment 
containing an-alleged new, sexy shot of the Russian 
siren. “She deserves some attention, doesn’t she?” 
wrote Jan “OnTheFly” Dewit, the e-mail infector, 
ona now-defunct Tripod site in February. Kournikova 
later signed a $10 million endorsement deal with 
Lycos, presumably to promote the company’s 
special all-the-viruses-you-can-eat offer, 


Def Leppard: Internet visionar- 
ies In early March, a court order gave the Napster 
song-swapping service a nearly fatal blow: Ban 135,000 
copyrighted songs. However, once the order was ap= 
plied, vigilante downloaders circumyented the filters on 


the service by creating hard-to-sniff-out MP3s, such as_| 


the misspelled “Jayded” by Arrowsmith. Napster’s sym- 
pathetic peer, Aimster, even posted a “pig” encoder, which 
renames “Madonna—Music” as “adonnaM—usicM.” 


TALK OF THE NET TEAM: Scott Alexander, Ron Bel Bruno, Bilge Ebiri (editors); Steve Knopper (writer) 


KOURNIKOVA: CAPITAL PICTURES/RETNA; 


NAPSTER: DAVIES + STARR 


= 


= 
8 
z 
a 
g 
g 
g 
= 
= 
§ 
= 
= 
& 
2 
=I 
8 
2 
¢ 
8 
g 
g 
z 
= 
2 
= 
2 
Ez 
= 
© 
z 


| page, search engine, spam, and snail mail. |n July, the 


! Lor. 


Pickleddo g.com, you "re next! In February, the parody site Bonsai Kitten [bonsaikitten.com], 


which posts photos of felines squashed into Mason jars and gives instructions on how to get them in there, got busted for 
these fictional misdeeds. Before realizing that few cats are obedient enough to stay in their jars for long, the FBI sent a 
warning letter to the site's webmaster, "Dr. Michael Wong Chang,” and a subpoena to MIT, its original campus host. 


As if we needed proo f, Josh After losing his job, bad-boy Pseudo.com founder Josh 
Harris and his girlfriend, Tanya Corrin, aimed Web cams at the shower, the bed, and everything else in their New 
York City loft for a 100-day experiment called We Live in Public [weliveinpublic.coml. On Day 85, Tanya split, 
posting a 2,700-word screed on F---ed Company's Web site entitled “My ex-boyfriend sucks and here's the proof.” 


Which comes first, :) or ;)?InJune, the 
online Oxford English Dictionaryadded FAQ, http, home- 


Concise Oxford Dictionary added MP3 and e-bookto its 
latest edition. We're still waiting for d00d, /33t, and warez. 


But then he got this really great 
deal for 700 free hours... Represen- 
tative Joel Hefley (R-Colo,) held out bravely until late 
January as the final congresspetson without a Web page. 


We're sure 
she received 
her .OOf cut 
of the action 
anywayA 
harmless Nike shoe _ 
promotion went sour 
when Jonah Peretti, an 
MALT. graduate student, 
requested that the word 
sweatshop be branded 
on his personalized 
sneakers in January. Nike [nike.com], which sponsored 
the $10-per-pair customization gimmick, politely 
declined. So Peretti forwarded the entire e-mail 
exchange—which included his request for “a snapshot 
of the 10-year-old Vietnamese girl who-makes my 
shoes"—to the Net at large. Reason No. 4,976 why it’s 
unlikely that Josh Harris will 
ever get a date again 


Yet another case in which a sim- "Googling," the act of plugging the names of prospec- 
ple emoticon just won't do “why tive mates into the Google [google.com] search 
are you late? You are divorced” was the mobile-phone engine, emerged this year as crucial dating insur- 
text message a United Arab Emirates man sent his wife ance. Unconfirmed reports of “counter-Googling"— 
of two'years. The words were enough, under Islamic the act of creating Web pages containing a bibli- 
Sharia law;to end the marriage. (He changed his mind ography of your would-be 27 best-selling novels, 
two hours latér; the couple remains together.) Ina re- photos of your flawless eight-pack abs, and video 
lated development, a female politician asked Malaysian clips of your spiritual confab with the Dalai Lama— 
government officials not to validate such high-tech di- followed almost immediately. 


vorce declarations. 


www.yil.com }January 2002 63 


TIMELINE 


independence by establish- 
ing partnerships with three 
corporate record labels: 
Warner, EMI, and BMG. 
These bedfellows 
announce plans to launch a 
music-subscription service 
by July—and then the plans | 
get postponed until 2002. 


DOT-COM DEATHWATCH, 
Part 1,568,100,221: 


Suck and Feed magazines. 


AOL'S SUBSCRIBER 


population reaches 27 mil- 


lion—over three times the 


population of Bulgaria. 


THE PHANTOM EDIT, AN 
anonymous filmmaker's Jar 
Jar-free reshuffling of Star 
Wars, Episode I: The Phan- 
tom Menace, circulates on- 


line in video form. | 


JULY 

DOT-COM DEATHWATCH, 
Part 1,906,237,708: 
Webvan. 


YET MORE NAPSTER: 
With the site in virtual 
hibernation, Metallica 

settles its copyright- 

infringement suit. 


AUGUST | 

IN A PREEMPTIVE STRIKE 
against online movie- 
swapping services, five 
major film studios 


announce plans to offer 


THE NET 2001 


TIMELINE 


downloadable feature 
films for rent. When? 
“Soon,” they say. 


ONCE A SMART AND 


snarky ace of the dot- 


com media biz, The 
Industry Standard 
shutters its doors after a 
long malaise. The 
magazine lays off most 
of its remaining employees 
as its parent company files 
for Chapter 11. 


SEPTEMBER 
MICROSOFT'S MSN 
Network claims 6.9 million 
users, up from 6.4 million 
in April. The software giant 


credits the jump to its ag- 
gressive luring of users 
from rival AOL. 


AFTER TERRORISTS FLY 
planes into the World 


Trade Center and the Pen- 
tagon on September 11, 
people worldwide 
communicate via e-mail 
when phone lines become 
overloaded. Surfers 
flood the Net for updates 
on the crisis, driving traf- 
fic at CNN.com and other 
news sites to all-time 
highs. In the weeks that 


follow, millions gather on 


message boards and in 

chatrooms to comfort, 
| console, and talk about 
whether life will ever be 


“normal” again, 


But really, there's no need to 
make it a popularity contest wel- 
come to the Battle of the Networked Viruses. At press 
time, the SirCam virus, which transforms random files 
from a surfer’s hard drive into virus bombs and e-mails 
them to the person's entire address book, had infected 


| 23 million computers, leading the pack of digital de- 


viants. The Nimda worm, which made its debut days 
after the September tv attacks, placed second with 13 
million, while the much-hyped Code Red virus floun- 
dered at a mere250,000 systems blighted. 


Sign of the Apocalypse No:.4,356 
As advertising dwindled, many of the Web's top media 
companies—including The New York Times on the Web 
Inytimes.com]—began accepting “pop-under” ads from 


This just in: Rich, spoiled 
stars like to shop 

Tennis star Serena Williams, 19, owned up toa Net 
shopping habit. “It hit its worst at the French Open,” 
she said in August. “I wasn’t able to stop and I 
bought, bought, bought, bought, bought” —specif- 
ically, clothes, shoes, and dog toys. 


64 Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


digital-camera company X10 [x10.coml, featuring beau- 
tiful smiling women and pictures of a tiny spy camera. 
Because the ads loaded in a separate window whose 
content came from X10's site, the ad campaign cata- 
pulted the e-tailer to fourth place in Jupiter Media 
Metrix's overall Web traffic report. 


She remains 
at large, and 
dangerously 
un-Google- 
able After Psycho-Ex 
[psychoexgirlfriend.com] 
“audio journal,” with its 50 
histrionic and profane voice 
mails from the webmaster's 
frustrated ex, became the stufF 
ofsummer Web buzz, many 
deemed the whole thing a cynical hoax. Okay, let's assume 
it was, and that the guy (better known as “theguy”) made 
it all up. Thatwould mean he had to find a friend (or pay 
an actress) depressed enough to deliver a convincing heavy 
sigh and declare, “I gotta do something before I end up 
killing myself over this. My health is in jeopardy and I'm 
sure you're aware of that. | want to hear from you.” This is 
stranger than fiction. 


Now if we can just get them to 
forget about that whole “money” 
thing In March, as America Online rolled out unlim- 
ited access in the UK,, its offices there "banned time" by 
covering up clocks and asking employees to remove their 
wristwatches. It was all part of a publicity stunt to help 
workers "experience the value of time without limits.” 


Don't let this small band of 
fanatics tarnish a great and 
peace-loving faitha group of e-mail pe- 
titioners in England insisted that U,K. census-takers 
count adherents of the Jedi “religion.” They got their 
wish in October, when the faith was granted its own re- 


sponse code in the census process. 


From the “sick Net tricks we wish 
had been a hoax" collection Paul 
Morgan, aka Freck, a disabled 33-year-old from Missis- 
sippi, claimed that on November 30 he would Webcast 
the amputation of his feet via guillotine at Freck's New 
Feet [cutoffmyfeet.coml. By charging $20 per view for 
the spectacle, he hoped to raise enough money for pros- 
thetic limbs and rehabilitation. 


GLENN CLOSE: FOTO FANTASIES; WILLIAMS: GEORGE HOLZ PHOTOGRAPHY/CORBIS OUTLINE 


IMELINE 


NIELSEN/NETRATINGS 
and Hartis Interactive 
report e-commerce spend- 
ings of more than $41 bil- 
lion in September, with 39 
million Americans buying | 


online—an all-time record. 


If all the press releases we got in our in-box 
this year turned out to be true... | ATEAM OF FRENCH AND | 
One fine day next year, while reading MSNBC [msnbc.com] on London's first wired park bench, I check The Offi- 
cial U.S. Time Inist.time.gov] with my new AOL Time Warner Swatch—and remember that my flight to New York | 
is about to take off! So I hop into a rented Volkswagen Golf eGeneration, confirm the flight time via dashboard 
mini-computer, and make it to my American Airlines jet. where I use my eyeglass-mounted display to consult 
Weather.com. Ten hours later, NY-Taxi.com helps me hail a cab wirelessly from Starbucks. In Manhattan, the inter- 
active Bloomingdale's [bloomingdales.com] window insists I buy one of its Top 10 Gifts Under $100. So, of course, 


American surgeons in New 
York, using robotics and | 


videoconferencing technol- 


ogy, replaces the gallblad- 


der of awomanin | 


northeastern France. 


MSN BENCH: MICROSOFT; BARTENDER: SEAN MURPHY/GETTYONE; SURGERY: REUTERS/TIMEPIX 


I do (as mandated by law), and then I walk home, munching on some delicious Soylent Green. 


And the No- 
bel Prize for 
breakfast 
preparation 
goes f0...The 
world's first Web cam, 
trained on a coffee ma- 
chine so Cambridge Uni- 
versity scientists would 
not hike down the stairs 
only to find an empty 
pot, closed down in 


)\March after 10 years. Perhaps in tribute, an engineer at 


nearby Brunel University invented a “Java toaster,” which 
dials a phone number, obtains the weather forecast, and 
burns icons for “sunny,” “cloudy” or “rainy” onto the bread. 


Strangely, no .broke, -rip, or .doa 
In an effort to provide more online real estate, the Web 
contorted in July to make room for more domain names, 
including .bis, .aero, name, coop and .info. 


What pant s? Pop superstar Britney Spears 
showed the world that she is, indeed, familiar with four- 
letter words when a tape of her neurotic preconcert rant- 


AND JUST IN CASE YOU 


were feeling a bit starved 


"What did y 
dat comiancht addy a 


"| created the Dot Goner.” 
San Francisco-based Potrero 
Brewing Company's new 
drink consists of Southern 
Comfort, creme de cassis, or- 
ange juice, and soda water. 


“| became a dominatrix.” 
When Net magazines 
stopped hiring, “Natasha,” 
a freelance writer interviewed 
in Salon, answered a “Fe- 
male Actresses Wanted: 
Dommes and Femmes” ad. 


“I created ‘roll of shame’ toilet paper, depicting ticker-tape 
stock reports from Yahoo!, Amazon; Webvan, and Drkoop.com." 
Entrepreneur John Zappa wrote the marketing slogan "No 
hype and all wipe.” 


“| played Survivor at work." Staffers at defunct U.K. dot-com 
Eezygoodies.com voted every Friday for layoff candidates; 
on subsequent Monday mornings, the British company's 
CEO tallied the ballots and acted accordingly. 


“| joined the online porn industry.” “We're getting all sorts 
of calls from technology headhunters asking if we have open- 
ings,” Bert Manzari of DHD Media, an online adult enter- 
tainment company, told the Los Angeles Times in April. 


for Napster news, the | 
beleaguered file-trading | 
service reaches a major | 


agreement with music 


publishers and | 
songwriters, thereby | 
settling at least one | 


nagging lawsuit. 


OCTOBER 
THE CRITICALLY LAUDED 


Net zine pioneer Salon. 


com, with its stock well be- 
low $1 per share, begins 
charging viewers for all 


news and political stories, 


as well as members-only 


| erotic content. 


| MICROSOFT RELEASES 
its Windows XP operating 


system. Users are divided, 


with some claiming it 


invades privacy and will 
extend the company's mo- 


nopoly, while others 


praise the system's stabil- 


| | 


wwwyil.com >January 2002 65 


if 


| 
| 


TIMELINE 


ity, comprehensive 
features, and general 


user-friendliness. 


THE ANTRAX WORM, AN 
e-mail virus designed to 
capitalize on the general 
anthrax panic in the U.S., 
fails its intended mission. 
Multiple errors by its 
author make it slow- 
spreading and easy to 
detect with virus- 


scanning software. 


HAVING ANNOUNCED 


earlier in the year that he 


would release a new CD 
the old-fashioned way, 
Prince/the Artist changes 
his mind and releases The 
Rainbow Children online 
via his NPG Music Club. 


MICROSOFT NETWORK 
(MSN) announces it will 
begin live audio Webcasts 


of National Hockey 


League games as part of f 


an exclusive agreement 


with the league. 


NOVEMBER 

DOT-COM DEATHWATCH, 
Part 996,001,994: 
Disney's Mr. Showbiz. 


MORE THAN 500,000 
people purchase their 
Harry Potter tickets 


online at Fandango. It's 


ing wound up on Napster. Among the other revelations: 
“Okay, let's hurry, y'all, seriously,” and “This is retarded,” 
and “Oh, my pants are too short!” 


Luckily, comedian Yahoo Seri- 
ous is still alive The great southern au- 
thor Eudora Welty died at age 92 in July; programmers 
cited her short story “Why I Live at the P.O.” as their in- 


spiration for the Eudora e-mail software. 


Next time, we'll make sure 
to ask for a doctor's note 
“It was like a million smiles were shining on me, and 
| wasn't afraid," read one passage Kaycee Nicole, 19, 
posted on the BWG Update while struggling with leukemia 
and chemotherapy. Hundreds of Net philanthropists 
responded—that is, until Kaycee turned out to be an 
elaborate hoax created by a Peabody, Kansas, mother- 
and-daughter team. Just goes to show you don't need 
a flawed business plan to create buzz online. 


Haven't we 
learned 
anything from 
Dr. Laura Sch- 
lessinger? 
There’s a saying: Sooner 
or later, everybody ends 
up naked on the Net. 
Proving it again this year 
were nude pictures of: 
—Andrea Thompson 
(left), new CNN an- 
chor and former 
NYPD Blue star 
Young women at 


Mardi C 


who appar- 


that the c 
[breasts 


A cheating British boyfriend who made the mis- 


“Show us your 


‘as optional 


take of posing in panties, a bra, cowboy boots, and 


makeup during happier days 


ently didn’t understand | 


Which one of the following 
was not offered via 
online auction this year? 


1 Serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer's prison 
hygiene kit. 

2 Dinner with rocker Ted Nugent. 

3 Michael Jordan's 1991 championship 
sweat socks, 

4 A seat on ABC's Politically Incorrect 
With Bill Maher. 

5 Rubble from the Seattle earthquake. 
6 Rubble from the Russian space station 
Mir's plunge into the Pacific Ocean. 

7 Apiece from the bullet-riddled door of 
Amadou Diallo, the African immigrant shot 
to death by New York City police. 

8 A pair of 1880s Levi's jeans found in a 
Nevada mining town. 

39 An invitation for somebody to "kick 
your ass." 

10 Madonna's bustier—autographed! 
11 A record-company rejection letter de- 
claring Madonna “not ready yet." 

12 Actual hairs from Alan Greenspan's 
eyebrows. 

13 All of recent University of lowa grad- 
uate student John Freyer's stuff, includ- 
ing his two false front teeth. 


Ie samsuy] 


66 Yahoo! Internet Life b January 2002 
| 


DALE MAY/COREIS OUTLINE; GREENSPAN: REUTERS NEWMEDIA INC./CORBIS; MADONNA’S BUSTIER: REUTERS NEWMEDIA INC./CORBIS 


HOMPSON: MARC ROYCE/CORBIS OUTLINE; 


PRINCE: STEVE PARKE; 


PAPER WITH BURNED EDGES: COPYRIGHT 2001, ROBERT KAUFMAN; HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE: PETER MOUNTAIN; LORD OF THE RINGS; PIERRE VINET/NEW LINE 


Onell ) 
poignancy, pirit 


Post-September 11 A tragedy’ 


Powerful PowerPoint Disparaged for aiding and abet- 
ting millions of boring corporate presentations, Microsoft PowerPoint be- 
came a vehicle for profound expression after September 11. This photo, 
from "Ground Zero: Five Days After the Attack,” a PowerPoint show cre- 
ated by rescue worker Bob Kaufman and mass-forwarded via e-mail, is 
just one of the raw, arresting visuals captured for posterity. 


Call Mulder and Scully 
In the wake of September 11, loopy nu- 
merologists had a field day. Thanks to 
their e-mails and postings, just about any- 
body with Net access now knows that 9+1+1=11, 
and that there were 111 days left until the 
end of the year after 9/11, that Flight 11 was 
the first plane to hit the towers, and that New 
York City, Afghanistan, and the Pentagon 
haye 11 letters each. Wise surfers noted that 
there are also 11 letters in gullibility. 


Did the right thing Film- 
maker and Knicks fanatic Spike Lee auc 

tioned off one of his prime seats for the 
New York Knicks—Washington Wizards 


season opener on NBA.com and Yahoo! | 


Auctions for $101,300, with proceeds go- 
ing to the Widow's and Children’s Fund 
of the Uniformed Firefighters Associa- 
tion. The unidentified winning bidder 
beat out, among others, AudioNet gazil- 
lionaire Mark Cuban. 


Fearsome fashion Infectious Awareables Is it unreal or is it Osama?. "Frag 


fiawareables.coml set up shop long before the attacks, his sorry ass....Nuthin’ like a close-up head shot to make 
but its necktie design based on an enlargement of the _Ya feel better!” reads the teaser for this Unreal Tourna- 
anthrax bacillus has never been more au courant. ment skin created by the avatar specialists at CyberEx- 


truder. If only all violence could be this virtual. 


|ELINE 


the highest-grossing 
pre-opening-day sale 

of online tickets thus far, 
but at press time 

The Lord of the Rings 
was expected to 


challenge the new record. 


ONLINE HOLIDAY 
shopping receipts are 
expected to reach $11 

billion (up 10 percent from 
2000) as consumers stick 
closer to home in the 


wake of terrorist attacks. 


AFTER TWO YEARS OF 


baiting fans with a 


massive online 
marketing campaign, 
New Line Cinema 
releases The Fellowship 
of the Ring, the first in 
the movie trilogy The 
Lord of the Rings. 


wwwy.yil.com January 2002 67, 


LLL 


\ 


\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
N 
\ 
\ 
\ 
N 
N 
N 
iN 
8 


Go ahead. Measure your 
monitor. How deep is if? Twelve 
inches? Eighteen inches? Take 
a ruler to your TV. Even worse, 
tight? When it comes to displays, 
flat is where it's at. 

Measuring as little as an inch 
thick, a desktop LCD display 
can help you recover acres of 
desk space, and its no-flicker 
picture is easier on the eyes 
than that of any traditional 
monitor, Of course, that means 
you'll get more work done, 
netting you more money, which 
in turn will allow you to afford 
your pricey new monitor—how's 


wxrvSaDgQoa0=v 


<o 


7,um—-<>0 


DmaSiaUn 


that for circular logic? If the prices 
quoted here are too steep for 
you, look for smaller models from 
the same manufacturers. 

When it’s time to channel- 
surf, feast your eyes on a wide- 
screen, flat-panel TV based 
on either LCD or plasma tech- 
nology. Featuring HDTV-ready 
electronics and a 16:9 aspect ratio, 
these TVs are ideally suited for 
watching movies in their original 
wide-screen format instead of 
in the annoying cropped style 
you see ona standard 4:3 model. 
As Charlton Heston races his 
chariot in Ben-Hur, you'll be able 
to see all around the track. 

Flat panels are even appear- 
ing in handheld tablet-style 
computers with touch-sensitive 
screens. The only problem with 
such cool-looking displays, TVs, 
and tablets: You may not feel like 
looking at anything else. 


= es ut 
SHARP AQUOS 


How thin? 2.4 inches 

Put it on a table, hang it 
‘on a wall, or suspend it 
from the ceiling. Sharp has 
come up with a TV that 
looks great and fits just 
about anywhere. Models 
range from 10 inches 
($1,000) up to 20 inches 
(shown here). $3,300 


sharp-usa.com 


70 


2Up and Down 


NEC MULTISYNC LCD 1850X 
How thin? 3 inches 

The large, 18.1-inch display 
swivels to support either 
the traditional landscape 
mode or the vertically 
oriented portrait mode. 
That makes it ideal for 
displaying long Web pages 
all at once. $1,799 
necmitsubishi.com 


3 Movie Screen _| 
PANASONIC TC-11LV1 

How thin? 6.9 inches 

It's Casablanca on the 
countertop. The newest in 
Panasonic's line of 
combination TV/DVD 
players, this cute 11-inch | 
model brings a film- 
friendly wide-screen aspect 
ratio to small kitchens and 
bedrooms. $1,600 


panasonic.com 


Yahoo! Internet Life + January 2002 


4 Superslim 


5 Home Theater _6 Sketch Pad 


SONY MULTISCAN 
SDM-N80 

How thin? About 1 inch 
Sony's design engineers 
strike again. This 18.1-inch 
display cuts a very stylish 
profile and has just one 
cable, not the two or three 
that are sometimes needed 
on other displays. $1,700 
sony.com/displays 


PHILIPS FLATTV 

How thin? 3.5 inches 

Rated best plasma TVs by 
the European Imaging and 
Sound Association, this 
line's offerings now include 
a 32-inch model that's more 
affordable than its bigger 
cousins. An optional $1,000 
receiver unit delivers such 
features as a picture-in- 
picture capability. $5,999 
usa.philips.com 


WACOM CINTIQ 15X 

How thin? 2 inches 

‘Two for the price of one: 
The Cintiq is both a 15-inch 
desktop display and a 
pressure-sensitive tablet 
that you can use for 
graphical applications such 
as freehand drawing. 
$1,899 wacom.com 


7 Jumbo Vision 8 Workhorse 
FUJITSU PLASMAVISION VIEWSONIC VP230MB 
PDS-5002 How thin? 2 inches 


How thin? 3.8 inches 

The Super Bowl party will 
be at your house this year. 
With 50 diagonal inches of 
superbright picture, this is 


thi 


one very big TV. It comes 
with its own stand; use a 
stud finder if you decide to 
mount this 99-pounder on 
the wall. $14,999 


plasmavision.com 


This is it—the mother of all 
desktop displays, with a 
mind-boggling 23.1 
diagonal inches of screen 
space and a price tag to 
match. It's the high-end 
choice for rocket scientists, 
architects, and artists. 
$5,379 viewsonic.com 


www.yil.com January 2002 71 


ma 
tj 


ilustration by Scott Lauman 


he rumors started more than a year and a half ago but 
weren't taken seriously. Then, this past September, 
a British grandmaster named Nigel Short stepped 
forward and claimed it was true: Bobby Fischer, the 
reclusive American chess legend who at age 14 be- 
came the youngest U.S. chess champion ever—and 
who exiled himself from the game after winning 
the world championship from Russian Boris Spassky 
in 1972—was logging on to play three-minute games 
of blitz chess at the Internet Chess Club [chessclub.coml. 
Not only that, Short asserted, Fischer—who came out 
of retirement only once, in 1992, to defeat Spassky in 
a controversial rematch—is at the top of his game. 
The former child prodigy won most of their 50 
matchups, dazzling Short with brazen tactics and blinding speed that 
eft the Englishman “99 percent” certain he'd faced the best chess 
player of the last, and quite possibly any, generation. 
In these matches, which had begun with a dubious encounter back 
jin October 2000 and concluded sometime in May 2001, Short said 
his “unseen opponent” often began games with “totally absurd,” self- 
destructive opening moves, and then came back from severe deficits 
ito annihilate him. Despite his poor showing, Short said, he treasured 
their games, calling them “what an undiscovered Mozart symphony 
ould be to a music lover.” Regrettably, these symphonies can’t be 
eard by the rest of us. Short’s Fischer insisted that both he and Short 
play as unapproved guests of the ICC, ensuring that few would be 
tempted to witness the contests and that none of the games would 
be recorded. Short knew it all sounded sketchy, but after seven months 
he'd become convinced that his opponent was the Bobby Fischer. 
“He was polite, funny, and clearly an American,” Short wrote in 
London's Sunday Telegraph on September 9. “He was also obviously very 
familiar in a gossipy way with the major figures in the chess world of 
ithe 1960s—Fischer’s period of greatest activity.” Though Short never 
asked his rival directly if he was Bobby Fischer, he did ask him bio- 
graphically leading questions, which were answered coyly but correctly. 
Naturally, Short’s revelation set the online chess world abuzz, and 
ha few weeks after Short’s as- 
ertion, I tried to pick up the 
{trail of this famous phantom. 
Fischer, or the possibility of 
him, struck me as a thrilling 
reminder of one of the Net's 
early and essential appeals: 
ithe chance it offered to hide | 
iin plain sight. Even if you never | 
jtook advantage of it—never 
posted under an alias, lurked | 


ABOVE: 1956, PORTRAIT OF THE 
ARTIST AS A YOUNG MAN? 

BOBBY FISCHER AT 13) 

OPPOSITE: COVERS OF LIFE (1971 
AND SPORTS ILLUSTRATED (19172) 


undetected in a chatroom, or 
passed yourself off as a mem- 
ber of the opposite sex— 


nowing you could made go- 

ing online more like moving to a new city than taking a trip to the 
ocal mall; the browser itself became a sort of rear window. If it was 
inevitable that online anonymity would be weakened in the name 
of consumer confidence and homeland defense, it’s still sad to see 
it go. Or so I thought when my own search for Bobby Fischer be- 


gan. Turns out things were a bit more complicated than I anticipated. 
From the get-go, many were doubtful that Short’s Fischer was 
Bobby Fischer: Yeah, sure, and Elvis is releasing new MP3s. Like a volun- 
teer mob of chess vigilantes, a number of naysayers set out to test 
Short’s claims and, with luck, expose the prankster who'd duped 
him. We'll come to that in a moment. 
First, I reached the president of the Internet Chess Club, Danny 


Sleator, at his Carnegie Mellon University office in Pittsburgh. “I do think 


Bobby Fischer is playing on ICC,” said Sleator, a computer science pro- 
fessor. “Where else would he play?” Founded in 1995, the ICC is not 
the most popular Web chess 


ite, but it is the premier Web chess desti- 
nation—the chess player's chess site. Among its 24,000 members are 
two-thirds of the world’s 600 or so grandmasters. The grandmaster 
title is awarded, on the basis of player performances, by FIDE twww.fide. 
org], the Switzerland-based Fédération Internationale des Echecs, or 
International Chess Federation. Like FIDE, the ICC boasts an inter- 
national membership, drawing from 50-plus countries. Only half of the 
ICC's members are from the U.S., and its ranks include a few celebs, 
among them Sting—who, incidentally, plays under an alias. 
Though notas profitable as porn or market data, ches 


proven to be one of the more durable Web businesses. Ther 


an avid base of players who are willing to pay for good ch 
programming (among them are many who played corre- 
spondence, or postal, chess prior to playing online) and who 
like to talk shop. Discussions of the 1997 rematch between 
IBM's Deep Blue and then world champion Garry Kasparov 
which went to Deep Blue in six—not only lit up IBM’s sites, 
but also almost single-handedly kept the lights on at virtual 
communities such as Electric Minds [www.electricminds.org]. 
October 2001 saw an impressive turnout for the first-ever 
Internet world chess championship. Even so, the Fischer ru- 
mors created a welcome surge in traffic and games at ICC. 
Sleator went so far as to splash “I played Bobby Fischer on 
ICC!" on the site’s home page. 
Was there any chance that had been the plan? That spreading this 
information wa 


aclever publicity scheme? No, Sleator insisted—Short 
ischer on ICC had all acted on 
their own. But he sure wished he'd thought of it sooner. 

“On the other hand,” he continued, “I am skeptical of Short’s 


and the others claiming to have “met” 


CORBIS/BETTMANN, 


74 Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2001 


claims. I’m surprised he didn’t keep more of a record to analyze.” 
Most GMs, Sleator pointed out, have the ability to recall entire 
games from memory, so it’s odd that Short, who was runner-up to 
the world championship in 1993, failed to reconstruct more than 
the unconventional openers. 

Surely Sleator or his ad- 
ministrators had logs that 


FISCHER, OR THE 
POSSIBILITY OF 
HIM, STRUCK ME 
AS A THRILLING 
REMINDER OF 
ONE OF THE 
NET'S EARLY AND 
ESSENTIAL APPEALS: 
THE CHANCE IT 
OFFERED TO HIDE 
IN PLAIN SIGHT 


would reveal if“ Fischer” was 
Fischer—something a user 
couldn't see but a system 
operator could? No, Sleator 
explained. It seems that “Fis- 
cher” went to a lot of trouble 
to cover his tracks. Not only 
did he insist that he and his 
opponent log back in as guests 
to play, he used interfaces that 
made it next to impossible to 
trace him to his ISP. 

“We really tried to reconstruct some of the [user] logs,” said Sleator. 
“Once we did track someone who might be the Fischer character to 
an ISP in the U.K., but it was inconclusive.” Sleator volunteered 
that he'd gotten complaints about anonymity in the past, but several 
ICC members like the system because they can try out new, poten- 
tially embarrassing strategies with impunity and avoid having op- 
ponents download and study their games right before tournament 
play. As for any new evidence emerging later, Sleator doubted it. 
“The trail,” he explained, “is cold.” 

Not so, however, for Frederic Friedel, cocreator of Fritz (a leading 
PC-based chess program) and cofounder of ChessBase [chessbase. 
com] (Hamburg, Germany’s, answer to the ICC). No sooner had 
Short’s revelation been typeset than Friedel collected any and all clues 
about “Fischer”—his chatter and games that had been saved by other 
grandmasters—and set about deter- 
mining if, as he suspected, “Fischer” 
was a prankster who used computers 
to show up the game's elite players. 

Friedel first challenged the gossip 
Short reported, pointing out that com- 
puter chess games can spit out chess 
trivia in a few keystrokes. This didn’t 
prove that Short’s Fischer wasn't Fis- 
cher, but it did indicate that someone 
wishing to pass himself off as Fischer 
could do so without breaking a sweat. 

Next, Friedel dissected “Fischer's” 
approach to the game. The Bobby Fischer of lore, Friedel suggested, 
would never use the ridiculous openings Short had described—they 
were sick, rude, uncouth maneuvers that any top-level player would 
find odious; Fischer, by contrast, had always been a courtly player. On 
this point, many disagree. When I spoke to Tom Brownscombe at 
the US. Chess Federation, he emphasized that grandmaster Fischer 
always did what he had to to win. He didn’t have a signature style so 
much as a will, a ferocity, and fresh ideas that could seem like mis- 
takes until he proved them otherwise. 

Fine, but what Friedel couldn’t abide was the coupling of the un- 


conventional opening moves with the incredibly rapid recoveries and! 
endgames that followed, and, sure enough, he found that many of these 
subsequent moves could have been suggested by the most powerful 
computer chess programs. All “Fischer” had to do was play with two, 
hands: one on the controls of the computer chess game, the 
other on the game in progress with Short or whomever. 
“Only a computer would be able to do what the myste- 
rious ICC Fischer has done,” Friedel posted on the site. “It 
is exactly what you would expect from a fast, tactical pro 
gram. Load Fritz, Junior, Shredder, or Tiger, preferably on| 
a1.4GHzor faster machine, force the first moves of the ICC 
Fischer player, and then play on against the program. At 
three-minute time controls.” 
Most posts to the discussion on Friedel’s page agree that 
the anonymous circumstances of “Fischer's” play suggest aj 


hoax, while the style of play, in particular, points to a ne} 


breed of cyborg grandmaster. One post, from “Jason L.” i 
the USS., claims to be from just such a con artist. 

HI I'D JUST LIKE TO SAY 
that | guarantee Bobby is not 
on the internet playing chess. 
Why? Cuz! am the best chess 
cheat on the internet and the 
situation is very familiar to 
me. In the last year, | have 
played thousands of games 
cheating and have yet to ever 
come close to losing even 
one game....The chess pro- 
gram | use is immaterial....it 
is the system that | use. | have 
written an autoplayer pro- 
gram...| just start up a one 
min game and sit back and 
watch my program play by itself....Also, it is very easy to create a 
user opening book with moves so outrageous that people think 
there is no way it's a computer. No, | am not the Fischer character 
in the web. Yes, cheating is fun. | get so much satisfaction laying a 
GM ina 2 min game and watching him resign after 25 moves, and 
then urging him to take up checkers. 

As startling as that might be for Short or other grandmasters to 
read, a few weeks after that post an even more startling thing hap- 
pened. On the evening of September 30, a player with a GM title call- 
ing himself—what else?— BobbyFischer appeared on a ChessBase beta 
site for the company’s latest release of Fritz, Fritz7. Was this Short’s 
Fischer, a copycat Bobby Fischer, Fischer himself, or even Jason L.4 
According to Friedel, it sure seemed like Short’s Fischer—he got offf 
toa sloppy start, then proceeded to slaughter his competition. The dif} 
ference, of course, was that he was now doing it in full view. 

“The games were quite mind-boggling, the moves and ideas 
truly spectacular,” Friedel said. “Most important, many of the moves 
came with lightning speed, much faster than any human slaving a 
computer's moves could possibly execute on the server.” Several on- 
lookers were becoming convinced it must be Fischer after all. But a 
ChessBase player named Erdogan Giines decided to test Friedel’s 
cyborg theory in real time. 


www,yil.com >January 2002 75 


Giines “fired up his dual-processor machine, started a strong tacti- 
cal engine on half of his big computer monitor, and logged on to the 
Fritz server,” Friedel reported later. “He challenged Bobby Fischer and 
immediately won two games in a row. After that the two played fu- 
Iriously, game after game 
after game. Erdogan, who 


is one of the most expe- 


THE MOVES AND IDEAS 
WERE TRULY 
SPECTACULAR. MANY 
OF THE MOVES CAME 
WITH LIGHTNING 
SPEED, MUCH FASTER 
THAN ANY HUMAN 
SLAVING A 
COMPUTER'S MOVES 
COULD POSSIBLY 
EXECUTE ON THE 
SERVER 


rienced computer oper- 
lators around, used both 
hands, one to enter the 
moves in Fritz7 with the 
mouse, the other to type 
in the moves on Fritz6 
for the engine. Although 
BobbyFischer was even 
faster, Erdogan was able 
to keep up. In the end, 
after 13 games, the score 
was 6.5—6.5. Suddenly 
BobbyFischer left. So was it the real thing, Robert James 

jof the spectators insisted? We are still deeply skeptical.” 


ischer, as some 


Fischer himself could put all these rumors to rest, and, as I discov- 
ered while reading Tim Krabbé’s Open Chess Diary [www.xs4all. 
jnl/-timkr/chess2/diary.html and several Fischer-inspired Web sites, 
the middle-aged grandmaster has made himself less scarce than I imag- 
ined. Or, at least, there was someone claiming to be Bobby Fischer who 
posted an author's endorsement on Amazon, provided fan sites with 
documents from what would appear to be his own scrapbook, and fre- 
quently visited the Philippines. There, hed made a habit of calling Bombo 
Radyo, the freewheeling NPR of the Philippines, to give outrageous 
commentaries to his friend and talk-show host, Pablo Mercado. Many 
jof them have been converted to MP3 format and posted on the Web. 
Putting it mildly, the MP3s of the Bombo Radyo broadcasts don’t 
sound a bit like the polite Fischer of Short’s recollection; they more 
resemble Marlon Brando's Colonel Kurtz babbling in the jungle of 
Apocalypse Now. During a September 2001 call-in, mere hours after the 
attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon, Fischer applauds 
ithe devastation and loss of life in America as “wonderful news.” 
“The U.S. and Israel have been slaughtering the Palestinians for years,” 
Fischer tells Bombo Radyo listeners. “Nobody gave a shit. Now it is com- 
ling back to the U.S. Fuck the U.S. I want to see the U.S. wiped out.” 
Fischer's contempt is, apparently, at least partly personal: “Nobody 


has single-handedly done more for the U.S. image than me, I really be- 
ieve in this. When I won the World Championship in ’72, the United 
States had an image of, you know, it was a football country, a baseball 
fountry, but nobody thought of it as an intellectual country: I turned 
all that around single-handedly, right? But I was useful then because 
it was the Cold War, right? But now I’m not useful anymore, you see, 
tthe Cold War is over, and now they want to wipe me out, steal every- 
(thing I have, put me in prison.” 

Along with the trove of MP3s, one site had a form for e-mailing Bobby 
Fischer, While I awaited a reply to numerous e-mails I sent, I tried to 
reconcile the disembodied voice of Fischer the shock jock of Manila with 
the ICC phantom and what I knew about the Fischer of 30 years ago. 
Robert James Fischer came into the world on March 9, 1943, in 
Chicago, son to Hans- Gerhardt Fischer and Dr. Regina Wender Fis- 


cher and younger brother to Joan, six years his senior. Bobby and Joan's 
parents split when he was two, and Bobby’s father went missing from 
their lives. As journalist Brad Darrach noted, “Bobby likes to say that 
he didn’t need a father.” 

Bobby learned to play chess at six, with a set bought for one dol- 
lar, and in 1958, at age 14, he became the youngest U.S. chess 
champion ever. Especially because of his success at an early age, young 
players such as Josh Waitzkin (featured in the fine 1993 film Search- 
ing for Bobby Fischer) still revere him. A year later, when Bobby was 15, 


his mother left for Russia and he began living on his own, a 
teenage hermit in a Brooklyn apartment. He never finished high 


school. This time, he boasted of having gotten “rid of” his mother. 


“Bobby covered his fear and loneline: 
rach wrote in his 1974 book, Bobby Fischer Vs. the Rest of the World, “He 
sneered at players four times his age. Half Jewish himself, he as- 


s with arrogance,” Dar- 


sumed a pose of anti-Semitism in a New York chess community 
that was better than four-fifths Jewish.” In fact, years earlier, in 
1962, Fischer had given an interview to Harpers magazine in which 
heid clearly wanted to taunt, perhaps playfully, his Jewish oppo- 
nents: “There are too many Jews in chess,” he told Ralph Ginzburg, 
“They seem to have taken away the class of the game. They don’t seem 
to dress so nicely. That's what I don't like.” 

For the most part, Fischer's offensive remarks were chalked up to 
youth and overlooked because of his genius, especially as he mounted 
a successful challenge—at the height of the Cold War—to the Russ 
ian stranglehold on chess championships. But Fischer struggled 
immensely after winning the world title in 1972, and his tendency to 
reject friends and confidants left him without anyone who could help 
him recover after big matches, deal with fame, and simply grow up. He 
also contended with some real betrayal, notably in his relationship with 
Brad Darrach. To gain access to Fischer for a 


ife magazine article, Dar 


rach had signed an agreement that he wouldn't pursue a book deal. AF 
ter he wrote Bobby Fischer Vs. the Rest of the World, Fischer sued. The law- 
suit was ultimately dismissed on a technicality, probably owing to the 
fact that Fischer represented himself. 


E WORLD PHOTOS 


“I do not know which is more bad, the match or after the match,” 


is Spassky zs h elinquishi i championship 2 
Bon Spassky told Darrac! after relinquishing the world championship $ 
to Fischer—and nearly losing his sanity in the process. “In a long match © 


76 Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2001 


ZORAIDA DIAZ/NEWSCOM 


a player shall go very deep into himself, like a diver. Then very fast he 
comes up. Every time, win or lose, I am so depressed I want to die... have 
played many long match. But this is first for Bobby, It will be for him a 
hard time. Now he feels like a god. He thinks all problems are over—he 
will have many friends, people will love him, history will obey him. But 
is not so, In these high places is very cold, very lonely, Soon will come de- 
pression. I like him, and I am afraid what will happen to him now.” 
Fischer, who liked to say that “all I want to do, ever, is play chess,” 


surrendered his title to Anatoly Karpov in 1975 when he failed to par- 


10 


Dt 


ticipate in the championship tournament. From a distance, it appeared 
he'd developed a persecution complex—evident later in a self-published 
1982 rant, I Was Tortured in the Pasadena Jailhouse! 

Ten years later, in September 1992, Fischer came out 
of retirement to play Spassky again, this time in Sveti Ste- 
fa 
only 101st in the world, making it difficult to know how 


. Yugoslavia. Fischer won, but Spassky was then ranked 
capable Fischer was or to infer if he’s likely to be sharp 
now. He also earned himself a federal indictment when 
he literally spat on an order from the U.S. Treasury warn- 
ing him not to play. (Both the U.S. and U.N. had sane- 
tions against Yugoslavia at the time, and Fischer still faces 
up to 10 years in prison, $250,000 in fines, and the re- 
turn of the roughly $3.5 million kitty he won if he's ar- 
rested in the U.S.) Rather than face any charges or settle 
the matter, Fischer traveled to Argentina, and from there 
to Hungary and Japan. 

“What I'm really hoping for, Pablo,” says Fi 


scher in 


one of his Bombo Radyo diatribes, “did you ever see that movie Seven 
Days in May? That's a movie about a general who tries to take over the 
USA. 


the country will be taken over by the military and they'll close down 


..['m hoping for some kind of a Seven Days in May scenario, where 


all the synagogues, arrest all the Jews, execute hundreds of thousands 
of Jewish ringleaders, and, you know, apologize to the Arabs.” 


In previous interviews, Fischer decried errors introduced by editors and 
publishers in chess books he's written and railed against an international 
Jewish conspiracy to corrupt and steal his ideas. Though the Bombo Radyo, 
particulars are contemporary, they're consistent with the kind of remarks 
Fischer made in his prime—only now he lacks the youth and displays of tal- 
ent to temper them. They also seem to have hardened into a worldvie 
that divides Fischer's enduring fans into at least three camps: those who, 
see him foremost as a geopolitical and pop-culture martyr, those who vie 
him as a victim of his own arrested development and monomania; and, 
finally, those who think that while he may have once had legitimate cause; 
to feel hounded, none of this excuses his evident bigotry today. 

And yet, optimistically, I thought, could it be that Bombo Radyo, 
was also being hoaxed? Perhaps the shock jock Fischer was no more) 
real than the terror of the Internet Chess Club? Pablo Mercado, 
doesn’t think so. Reached in Manila, the radio host said he knew Fis- 


cher personally, that Fischer was living in Japan, and that he had met 
with him during his visits to the Philippines. The man railing on his 
show was, he reassured me, the Bobby Fischer. 

Did Mercado know if Fischer was playing chess online? “I can’t 
confirm this,” he said. “But it is a possibility.” As I set down the 
phone, Mercado’s unconfirmed possibility made it seem for amoment 
that I was right back where I had started—stymied by the very quali- 
ties of anonymity and evasiveness I thought I missed about the Net] 
And yet, I wasn't either. 

Sure, the Net puts everything up for grabs—even your very exis- 
tence. The author Robert Anton Wilson, for one, labored for year: 
to dispel rumors of his own demise, which had started in a Usenet 
group. At the same time, my search for Bobby Fischer revealed that as 
much as the Web browser is a rear window, it’s also a dragnet: It serves 
up an open case file on notorious lives, a case file crammed with eye- 
witness accounts, PDFs and GIFs of documents and photos, databases 
of interviews, press clips, you name it. Even if much of the content of 
this 
terns suggested a man I wasn’t sure I really wanted to find, 

As this article went to press, Fischer himself had not replied to nu-+ 


case file is suspect, patterns emerge. And in this instance, the pat- 


merous e-mails (most bounced) 
and faxes, including one sent 
to a friend of Fischer who'd 
been identified as a go-betweer 
in a Bombo Radyo broadcast! 
During several of these broad- 
casts, Fischer “challenges” an 

radio station or online venue, 
even in the “filthy, dirty US.A.,” 
to invite him on, but only “live” 
so his words can’t be manipu- 
lated. Maybe, given his vitriol, 
it's just as well that he didn’y 


OPPOSITE: 1972, FISCHER VS. 
SPASSKY IN ICELAND. 

BOVE: 1996, FISCHER INTRODUCES 
5 NEW WAY TO PLAY CHESS IN 


respond to me, As I listened 
to his hateful MP3 rants, I 
found myself drawn back to Nigel Short’s Fischer—the unseen player 
who restores rather than diminishes the legend; a ghost who tricks 
grandmaster and fans alike into feeling as though they've been part 


UENOS AIRES. 


of a lost, beautiful, and unrecoverable symphony. & 


Brad Wieners writes for Wired, Business 2.0, and Outside. 


wwwvyil.com > January 2002 77 


Teach For America is the national corps that calls 
upon the nation's most outstanding recent college 
AND JOIN THE FORCE OF LEADERS WHO A] t graduates, of all academic majors, to commit two 
} years to teach in urban and rural public schools. 
During their two years, corps members help change 


their students’ life prospects. Long term, they become 


ENSURE THAT OUR COUNTR 
THE LAND OF OPPORTUNMT 


leaders in a variety of professional sectors — and 
because of their Teach For America experience they 
have the insight, the network, and the credibility they 


need to effect meaningful, long-term change. 


Join our movement to ensure that one day, all children 
in our nation have an equal chance in life. No education 
coursework required. Full teacher salary, benefits, 


and help with your student loans. 


BY ALAN COHEN 


| 
4 


| Movies, music, 
games, gossip 


Product reviews, | Fashion, food, Heart disease, men- 
computer news, chat | home, relationships | tal health, nutrition 


| 


Reference, language 
translation, art 


Great deals, adven- | Taxes, loans, Humor, graphics, 


ture vacations job-hunting business news 


wwwyil.com > January 2002 


79 


entertainm 


ntertainment on the Net was poised 
to come of age this year, but music 
and film stalled out. Meanwhile, 
sports took the lead in key arenas 


A lot of people were hoping that 2001 would be 
the year when the bigwigs in entertainment—the 
major movie studios, record companies, and sports 
leagues—would finally get wise to the real 
potential of the Internet. It looks as if that may 
have to wait. After the September 11 terrorist 
attacks, the entertainment world’s concerns 
became more immediate: how to raise money— 


BY Bilge Ebiri 
[musicnet.com] and Pressplay [pressplay.coml. Orig- 
inally they were due to launch during the summer; 
at press time, they still hadn't premiered. Observers 
continue to hope that the services will help resolve 
the controversies still dogging online music. 
Net-based film didn’t fare much better. For 


much of the year, prospects looked bleak for down- 


loadable or streamed movies on the Web. Then, 
in August, a number of Hollywood studios an- 
nounced a major initiative to make their cata- 
logs jointly available for rental online, True, that 
much-hyped service, which is to be made avail- 
able through Sony's 
Moviefly [moviefly.com], 
has been slow to appear. 
But if it succeeds, it may 
well change the face 
of online entertainment 
for good—and we mean 
it this time. 

In the sports arena, 
the National Basketball 
Association made sig- 
nificant steps toward 
Webcasting its related 
properties, even plan- 
ning to cybercast select 
WNBA games. But 
regular video cyber- 
casting of NBA games 
remains a dream. 
Manan That does not mean, 
however, that the sports 


both online and off—for important causes while 
reconfiguring content in an appropriate manner, 
and how to survive in an economy that was al- 
ready on shaky ground. 

Before September, the big news was still the 
Napster controversy and its aftermath. While RIAA 
lawsuits and self-imposed filters eventually suc- 
ceeded in rendering the file-trading site virtually 
useless, a multitude of similar services emerged, 
muddying the waters. Meanwhile, the record labels 
announced that they would cooperate in creating 


world is oblivious to the 
Net. Thanks to such Web-savvy owners as Ted 
Leonsis, of the Washington Capitals and Wizards, 
some teams have used their official sites to allow a 


| whole new demographic of fans to purchase 


season tickets by paying in installments, on credit 
without interest. Since Net-based ticket sales such 
as these have proven to be cost-effective, perhaps 
other teams might try a similar approach. 

Who knows? The year 2002 may prove to be 
the one when the honchos in the entertainment and 
sports worlds finally get wise to the real potential of 


two Napster-style subscription services: MusicNet | the Internet. Wait, is there an echo in here? 


BEST ORIGINAL WEB 
PROGRAMMING 
Shockwave.com 

This site has long been home to some 
of the Web's most imaginative ani- 
mation, including Tim Burton's Stain- 
boy. Now add to the mix the creative 
output of AtomFilms, which Shock- 
wave has acquired and is hosting on 
its site. New and noteworthy are An- 
gty Kid: Captain Thunderpants, from 
the creators of Wallace & Gromit, 
and—if the thought of Jim Belushi 
doesn't faze you— The Greedy Show. 
ALSO: Broadband-enabled surfers 
should test-drive Sony's Screenblast, 
where the cinematically inclined 
can create and showcase their own 
brilliant Web works. [shockwave. 
com]; [www.atomfilms.com]; 
[screenblast.com] 


BEST MOVIE 
RESEARCH SITE 

The Internet Movie Database 
For years, we've been turning to 
the IMDb to settle bar bets about 
our favorite flicks and stars—and 
judging from the site's popularity, 
so have you. Pick up all manner 
of movie-biz factoids, including 
the name of Russell Crowe's band 
(30-Odd Foot of Grunts) and Nicole 
Kidman's birthplace (Honolulu), 
and get more proof that Tom Hanks 
has it better than you do (total earn- 
ings from Forrest Gump: $70 mil- 
lion and counting). limdb.com] 


© 


BEST MOVIE QUIZZES 

|__| FilmWise 
Thanks to FilmWise, you can stun 
your friends with your vast recall of 
Dumb & Dumber. The visual quizzes 
are fun even when you have no idea 
which dog is from Turner and Hootch 
and which is from K-9, or can't tell 
Donald Sutherland's naked rear end 


JORDAN: AP/WIDE WORLD PHOTOS; CAPTAIN THUNDERPANTS: COURTESY OF SHOCKWAVE.COM; INVISIBLES: COURTESY OF FILMWISE.COM 


80 Yahoo! Internet Life January 2002 


Stew Ky Foor 


ap cale 


ANGRY KID Captain Thunderpants. 

from Holly Hunter's. But our favorite 
challenge is the Invisibles quiz: Faces 
and limbs are erased from movie 
screenshots, and you get to guess 
the flick. It's addictive fun. We just 
wish they had done some erasing on 


that backside quiz. [filmwise.com] 


BEST MOVIE REVIEWS 
MRQE: Movie Review 
Query Engine 
We feel sort of funny rewarding a site 
that boasts nearly 170 reviews of Space 
Cowboys, but the MRQE is nothing if 
not complete. Ifyou have time for only 
one Airport flick, what's it going to be: 
‘75 or ‘77? Get critiques for movies 
 oldand new from big-time critics (En- 
tertainment Weekly, The New York 
Times), as well as more obscure folks 
(Planet Sick-Boy). ALSO: Heck, why 
even bother to read the review when 


_ you can just scan a scorecard of ma- 
jor critics at CheckTheGrid? [www. 


mrge.com]; [checkthegrid.com] 
Lal 


[BG] [Best pvp RENTALS 


Netflix 

There's a reason Netflix has attracted 

a cultlike band of DVD-equipped 
_ movie buffs (more than 300,000 
strong and growing). For $20 per 
month, you can rent any three DVDs 
at one time. Keep them out as long 
as you want, too. When you're done 
with a movie, stick it in its prepaid 
mailer and drop it in a mailbox. 
Netflix then mails you the next movie 
on your list. There are no late fees— 
and no smug looks from the Block- 


buster clerk when you're renting — 


America’s Sweethearts for the third 
time in a month. [netflix.com] 


BEST OVERALL 


) I music site 


Sonicnet.com 
Our perennial favorite, Sonicnet gives 
you not only the tunes but also the 

tales behind them. The top-notch news 
section serves up the details—and 
the dish—on releases, tours, delays, 
and lawsuits. The coverage of digital 
music is excellent. To all that, add 
streaming radio shows and music 
videos, plus exhaustive artist profiles 
that steer you to reviews, biogra- 
phies, and fan sites. [sonicnet.com] 


— 


BEST MUSIC 
REFERENCE SITE 
All Music Guide 


If you've been losing sleep trying to 
remember the name of the Bee Gees’ 
third album, well, you may need more 
help than any Web site can provide. 
But to answer your question, AMG is 
the reference of record. It not only tells 
you how the band came to be and 
which songs are on what albums, but 
also what other artists were influenced 
by its music. Be warned, however: 
There's stuff here you may not really 
need to know, such as the former band 
name of the Bangles (Supersonic 
Bangs). [allmusicguide.com] 


[_ |BEST MUSIC 

cl DOWNLOADS 

|__| Audiogalaxy 

Sure, Napster may be down for the 
count—at least, the free Napster we 
all loved (perhaps a bit too much). 
But that doesn't mean the plug 
has been pulled on all music down- 
loads. At Audiogalaxy, up-and-com- 
ing bands post their own MP3s for 
your listening pleasure. But the real 
gem here is the Audiogalaxy Satel- 
lite software, which lets you share 
tunes with other music lovers. 
(Hmm, where have we seen that 
concept before?) There are lots of 
songs here—and so far, no lawyers. 
[audiogalaxy.com] 


| BEST MUSIC 

ms EVENTS GUIDE 

|__| FestivalFinder 
How could you possibly go through 
life never knowing about Kanawha- 
Palooza (Charleston, West Virginia, 
February 1-3)? Well, fear not. Festi- 
valFinder isn't slick, but itis the Web's 
best resource for locating musical 
gatherings across the country. More 
than 2,500 events are listed, in a 
wide variety of categories, includ- 
ing jazz, classical, reggae, rock, and 
even Cajun and zydeco. So, hop in 
the car and get moving—once you 
stop here and decide where you 


want to go. [festivalfinder.com] 
=| 


|BEST NET RADIO HUB 
|___JReal 
Come here to get the excellent 
RealPlayer, then stick around to find 
great stuff to stream through it. 


Real's radio guide is just a quick and 
simple search engine, but it con- 
nects you to more than 2,500 on- 
line stations. In less time than it takes 
to switch the dial on Britney Spears, 
you can be tuning in to classic rock, 
blues, comedy, rap, and college sta- 
tions across the country—and as far 
off as Bulgaria. And if you cough up 
cash for Real's GoldPass, you can 
listen to any major league base- 
ball game live. [real.com] 
BEST SPORTS HUB 
MSN: ESPN 


Whether your tastes run to bas- 


ketball, horse racing, or the rough- 
and-tumble world of professional 
bowling, ESPN can fill you in on the 
statistics, the standings, and the 
athletes. There are enough news 
stories, message boards, and video 
clips to keep you busy between 


www,yil.com > January 2002 


81 


DRAGGIN' FOR DIRT E! Online's got the dish on Andy Dick and other celebs. 


games—and to help you keep up 
your end of the conversation next 
time you run into Marv Albert. Bonus 
points for the fabulous Page 2, which 
features great columns by savvy 
sportswriters and is probably the 
only place online where you can 
read Hunter S. Thompson's mus- 
ings on football. lespn.com] 


| 
| BEST. FANTAS 
eal CBS SportsLine.com 


If you can’t be an athlete, own an 
athlete—or at least pretend to. Fan- 
tasy sports let you draft and trade 
players, then get scored on how 
well your picks perform through- 
out a real season. SportsLine not 
only provides the games—base- 
ball, football, golf, hockey, and even 
Indy and Nascar racing—but also 
the tools. It offers live and auto- 
mated drafts, crunches all the num- 


bers, and even provides wireless 


access to standings. ALSO: With its 
excellent tutorials, Sandbox turns 
fantasy-sports beginners into Rookie 
of the Year material. [sportsline. 
com]; [sandbox.com] 

BE esr 

oe Pogo.com 
If your idea of a classic diversion 
goes a bit further back than Quake, 


Pogo should be your game parlor 
of choice. It's packed with tradi- 


tional faves, including chess and 
bridge, as well as trivia and casino 
games. Thanks to Pogo's terrific 
multiplayer features, you can play 
the old standards in a whole new 
way. Pogo visitors typically find 
100,000-plus other gamers ready 
to challenge them. Pick from be- 
ginner and expert rooms (and 
everything in between), and chat 
with your opponent as you tram- 
ple him. ALSO: Yahoo! Games adds 


pool, pinochle, and mah-jongg 
to the golden oldies mix. [pogo. 
com]; [games.yahoo.com] 


The folks at GameSpot have a rough 
life: They play computer games all 
day and then write about them. At 
least the site's staff doesn't rub it 
in our face. Instead, they turn out re- 


views and game guides so thorough | } 


you start to wonder if there is any 
castle, civilization, planet, or dun- 
geon they haven't spent an all-nighter 
tackling. They've even braved the 
minefields of The Sims: Hot Date 
(right). Video-game coverage is first 
rate, too, as is the news section. 
[gamespot.coml 


JE! Online 
Let's face it: What's more entertain- 


ing than seeing the lives, loves, and | 


legal woes of our favorite stars 
displayed on a high-profile Web 
site? The Celeb Courthouse at E! On- 
line shows us that being a superstar 
isn't all about premieres and par- 
ties; if you're Arnold Schwarzeneg- 
ger, sometimes it's about getting 
your face removed from slot ma- 
chines, too. It's comforting to know 
that Andy Dick dresses worse than 
we do and that Cher has contractor 
problems. ALSO: If you can’t wait 
for the next Entertainment Weekly 
magazine, EW.com dishes dirt daily. 
[eonline.com]; [ew.com] 


CultureFinder.com 


Whether you're in the middle of 


Times Square or Grand Rapids, Cul- 
tureFinder can steer you straight to 
the artsy stuff, including plays, 
operas, dance companies, and mu- 


seum exhibitions. Many listings have 
links to ticket sales online, as well as 
a seating chart, so you can decide 
whether to bring your binoculars. You 
can even have reminders e-mailed 
to you; that way, you won't forget 
about the upcoming production of 
Verdi's Otello in Baltimore. Do enough 
of these events and you won't feel 
so guilty about that next trip to Sea 
World. [culturefinder.com] 


wane 3 


DICK: SCOTT GRIES/NEWSCOM; THE SIMS: COURTESY OF GAMESPOT.COM; MAN WITH LAPTOP: STEVE READ/GETTYONE 


82 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


ile-sharing made waves, Microsoft 


those Y2K contingency plans 
finally proved useful 


Hamstrung early on by a skittish economy and 
overshadowed at year’s end by hard questions about 


online surveillance and privacy, the Net's progress 
in 2001 centered on efforts to expand access for 
all. In the wake of Napster and similar music- 
sharing systems, the peer-to-peer movement con- 
tinued to gain momentum with applications 
designed to share files of all kinds, despite harsh 


criticism from intellectual-property advocates. 
Microsoft scored a big win in June when a fed- 


eral appeals court vacated U.S. District Judge | 


Thomas Penfield Jackson’s June 2000 ruling that 
called for the company to be split in two. At 
press time, negotiations continued but the gov- 


ernment no longer sought to break up the soft- 


ware giant—a sea change that some analysts credit 


to Microsoft’s growing importance to the enter- 


Qh 6h ee BEST WEB PORTAL 
Yahoo! 


had major ups and downs, and | 


tainment business and other nontech industries. 
However, the company still faced trouble on 
| several fronts. After repeated virus and worm 
epidemics exposed continuing problems with 
Microsoft's Internet Information Server software, 
aleading advisory group recommended that com- 
panies avoid using the product, which shipped with 
every copy of Windows 2000. Microsoft’s pro- 
posed Passport service, which promised to stream- 
line online shopping sprees with a digital wallet, 
came under fire from privacy advocates, who claimed 
it offered scant protection for personal informa- 
tion. The company was 
embarrassed in January 
(by a hacker who man- 
aged to forge a VeriSign 
Trusted Site certificate) 
and in August (by letters 
of support for Microsoft 
sent to Utah's Attorney 
General from, as it turned 
out, several dead people). 
Meanwhile, the European 
Union was considering 
its own antitrust action 
against Microsoft. 

In the hardware do- 
main, the PC turned 20 
in August. Another mile- 
stone occurred on Sep- 
tember 8, when “Unix 
time”—the count kept by 
the operating system that 


underpins vast sections 


of the Internet—crossed 


| "4 Lt the billion-second mark. 


' Despite scattered con- 
| cerns of Y2K-esque problems, the day was bless- 
| edly uneventful, owing in part to massive code 
cleanups undertaken several years ago in anticipa- 
tion of potential millennial meltdown. Although no 


amount of preparation could soften the horror 
on the East Coast three days later, Y2K contin- 
gencies—along with disaster planning in the wake 
of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing—pre- 


| vented even more cataclysmic financial losses there. 


Yahoo! Internet Life picking Yahoo! 
as best portal? Why, yes. In fact, we've 
crowned Yahoo! the winner in sev- 
eral categories this year—but only 
because it's the best. Our writers were 
asked to come up with top sites in 
each category, without fear or favor. 
And so they did. Yahoo! delivers on 
so many fronts—outstanding shop- 
ping, news, chat, and e-mail features; 
excellent wireless access—that it came 
up the winner. It's also an unequaled 
directory to practically every Web site 
you'd ever want to visit. [yahoo.com] 


BEST SEARCH ENGINE 


Google 


This baby just keeps getting bet- 
ter—and bigger, with some 1.6 bil- 
lion Web pages now indexed. On 
top of all the features we love—un- 
cannily accurate results, cached 
pages of defunct sites—the wiz- 
ards from Stanford University have 
added new search tools for PDF 
files, Usenet posts and, best yet, 
images. In just a nanosecond or 
two, we found hundreds of pictures 
of Jennifer Lopez. ALSO: Vivisimo 
does a bang-up job of organizing 
results from other search engines. 
[google.com]; [vivisimo.com] 


BEST CONSUMER 

COMPUTER NEWS 

CNET 
Even if you have no interest in earn- 
ings reports, job cuts, and what Ber- 
telsmann has spent on Napster (an 
estimated $100 million and count- 
ing), CNET is invaluable just for keep- 
ing you up to speed on new product 
announcements, introductions, and 
delays. And the search capability 
makes it a snap to get through the 
voluminous archive. [cnet.com] 


wwwyil.com > January 2002 


Sn, s__iaEEEEEEE 


83 


___ |BEST COMPUTER 

[223] |probuct Reviews 

L ZDNet 
Luckily for consumers, ZDNet re- 
viewers sure do like to play with 
techie toys. The site offers critiques 
of sleek laptops and digital cameras, 
naturally, along with the less glam- 
orous stuff, too, including CD burn- 
ers and software utilities. Reviews 
include long lists of specifications 
covering every port, plug, jack, 
and socket. [zdnet.com] 


BEST GEEK HANGOUT 
Slashdot | 

Still the Web's buzziest hive, Slash- 
dot is a vocal, opinionated commu- 
nity where nerds of all nations come 
to debate everything from the latest 
microprocessors to stem-cell research 
to the Star Wars prequels. You might 
need a GPS receiver to navigate your 
way through the seemingly chaotic 
site. But once you get the hang of 


designers create a page in minutes. 
More ambitious users appreciate 
the intuitive site-building tool, which 
lets you drag and drop text and im- 
ages anywhere on a page, and even 
add sounds, guestbooks, and all 
the fancy tricks of the pros. ALSO: 
It's no longer free, but Homestead 
still offers a slick, feature-rich 
page builder for about 50 bucks 


per year. [hometown.aol.com]; 
[homestead.com] 


The proof is in the prints. Ofoto— 
now a Kodak company—turns out 
stunning pictures from digital im- 
ages you upload and does a pretty 
snazzy job on prints from film neg- 
atives, too. The uploading tool is a 
cinch to use, and basic editing fea- 
tures let you quickly change color 
saturation levels and add borders 


fq 44h DD 


miu a | 


Ca 


DANCE WITH ME Shane Griffin takes a turn as “The Dancing Man” on SpotLife. 


Slashdot, it is as user-friendly as that 
old Commodore 64 you refuse to 
part with. [slashdot.org] 


BEST HOME PAGE 


W) |punver 


AOL Hometown 
You'd expect something run by AOL 
to be beginner-friendly, and this free 
Web-building and hosting service 
doesn't disappoint, letting first-time 


and tints. You get unlimited space 
in which to store pictures online, and 
sharing is easy. It's also an extraor- 
dinarily fast service. lofoto.com] 


BEST WEB CAM HUB 
|SpotLife 

Granted, Web cams can be, well, spotty. 
For every person doing something 
interesting on camera, there are a 
dozen people simply staring into the 


lens, looking bored, sleepy, or scary 
(sometimes all three). But if you like 
to watch—or like to put on a show— 
SpotLife trumps the competition, with 
scores of live feeds to choose from. 
Yes, lots of bored, scary people, but 
also some budding entertainers, such 
as Joe Bavone and friends on "The 
Dancing Man.” The site's software and 
hosting service, starting at $3 per 
month, make it easy to broadcast your 
own shtick. [spotlife.coml] 


BEST REMOTE 
|CONTROL 

GoToMyPC 

This slick new service can't help you 
if you misplace your car keys, cell 
phone, or anniversary present (ac- 
tually, nothing can help you on that 
last one). But if you left something 
on your PC, bingo—you're in luck. 
GoToMyPC lets you access, and re- 
motely operate, your work or home 
PC from any other Windows-based 
computer in the world that's con- 
nected to the Internet. Fees start at 
$10 per month. [gotomypc.com] 


FEZ peest tec SUPPORT 


ExpertLive 
Here's another handy service from 
the folks behind GoToMyPC (above). 
Visit the site and type in your prob- 
lem, and support specialists bid for 
the work. Most bids are in the $10 
to $20 range and made within two 


minutes. Check out each expert's | 


feedback and pick your guru. Using 
a surprisingly glitch-free screen- 
share application, your techie takes 
control of your PC and fixes the 
problem (usually) while you watch. 
fexpertcity.com/expertlivel 


[BEST FREE E-MAIL 
____]Yahoo! Mail 
We like the Yahoo! e-mail setup be- 
cause we're greedy: The portal gives 
us a 6MB mailbox, while MSN Hot- 
mail offers 2MB. The other features 


are comparable: tools that block 
spam, let you check other e-mail 
accounts, and give you message 
notification via an instant-mes- 
saging client. And Yahoo! hasn't 
been messing with its interface, 
either (memo to Hotmail: A new 
look worked for Jennifer Aniston; 
it didn't for you). So we can get right 
to composing, reading, and man- 
aging our messages, without hav- 
ing to relearn all the buttons’ 
locations. [mail.yahoo.com] 


BZ] messacinc 


Ea 


AOL Instant Messenger 
Other companies—notably Mi- 
crosoft—have tried to dethrone AOL 
as instant-messaging champ, but 
none has come close. Now with more 
than 100 million users, AIM has 
moved beyond the home and cam- 
pus and into the workplace. You don't 
have to be an AOL member to use 
it, and thanks to the elegant inter- 
face, you don't have to be an engi- 
neer, either. ALSO: No law limits you 


to one IM client. So grab Yahoo! | 


Messenger, as well, and get alerts 
when you get new Yahoo! mail. If 
you've got a Web cam, you can send 
your mug out over the Netwaves, 
too. [aol.com/aim]; [messenger. 
yahoo.com] 


BEST CHAT 

Yahoo! Chat 

The global reach enjoyed by Yahoo! 
gives it a vast, diverse audience of 
participants, meaning that anytime 
you log on, you can talk about prac- 
tically anything—from Australian pol- 
itics to biotechnology to Buffy the 
Vampire Slayer—with practically 


anyone. Good design also gives Ya- 
hoo! the edge; unlike rival AOL, it 
doesn't limit chats to just 23 mem- 
bers per room, and it lets you search 
for member rooms by category. 
[chatyahoo.coml 


GRIFFIN: COURTESY OF SPOTLIFE; COMMUTERS: AP/WIDE WORLD PHOTOS 


84 Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


BEST SOFTWARE 

DOWNLOADS 

___ CNET: Download.com 
Try out this site and one thing is for 
certain: Next time, you'll need to 
buy the bigger hard disk. Among 
the 20,000-plus programs here— 
demos, shareware, commercial 
packages—are all manner of MP3 
players, screen savers, printer 
drivers, antivirus utilities, and Web 
browsers. Sorting through such a 
huge collection can be taxing, and 
it would be if not for the editors’ 
picks, hands-on reviews, and user 
ratings. [download.com] 


BEST HANDHELD 
SOFTWARE HUB 
(res andergs 

Talk about handheld heaven! Here 
you can find more than 10,000 
ready-to-download applications for 
Palm, Pocket PC, Windows CE, and 
even those slick RIM BlackBerry 
devices. Much of the software is 
commercial, but freebies abound 
as well, all organized into cate- 
gories—so you can find that much- 
needed document reader, exercise 
tracker, or hard-to-find clinical neu- 
rology textbook. ALSO: For the 
Palm OS crowd, PalmGear.com 
is an invaluable source of software, 
news, and product announcements. 
[handango.coml]; [palmgear.coml 


BEST HANDHELD TOOL 
Vindigo 

Tell Vindigo where you are in any 
of 19 metropolitan areas and it will 
tell you where you can eat, drink, 


shop, and be merry nearby, com- 
plete with walking directions. The 
service is free and constantly be- 
ing updated; you get the latest in- 
formation whenever you synchronize 
via a PC connected to the Net. Rest 
assured: With Vindigo at your side, 
you don't look like a tourist—just 
a geek. [vindigo.com] 


| 
} 


he Net helped unite the world com- 
munity in many new ways. It also 
continued to diversify, reflecting 
an ever-wider spectrum of groups 


| Ms pda Z 
| As the Internet gets bigger, the world gets smaller. 


| Despite—and also because of—the attacks on the 


| United States, the world community is uniting in 
ways never before possible. 

Just minutes after the terrorist strikes, people 
| logged on not only for news but also to e-mail and 
| instant-message loved ones, especially when phone 


lines failed. We found solace at Beliefnet [beliefnet.coml, 


relief effort. The auction site eBay [ebay.com] 
launched its own fund-raiser, Auction for Amer- 
ica, where buyers and sellers aimed to raise $100 
million within 100 days. 

Even before terror struck, many dot-com com- 
panies had gone dark when the Net boom turned 
to bust. But the Internet itself is thriving and at- 
tracting a greater diversity of surfers, In Febru- 
ary ’o1, the Pew Internet & American Life Project 
reported that the number of women online now 


equaled the number of men. Seniors also made 


cyberstrides. While only 15 percent of Am 
over 65 have Net access, 


according to a Septem- 


} a multifaith spiritual community, and counsel 


| through GriefNet.org, which added two online sup- | 


) port groups, Horrific Loss and US-Tragedy. 
In addition to reaching out for comfort, peo 


ple also reached out to help. Internet and tech- 


nology heavyweights—AOL Time Warner, Yahoo!, 


launch American Liberty Partnership [libertyunites.org], 


ber ‘01 Pew study, it’s a 
fervent group: 69 percent 
log on daily. Another Pew 
report showed that half 
of Hispanics age 18 and 


over are online, often con- 


gregating at sites geared 
to the international Span- 
ish-speaking community, 
such as El Sitio [elsitio.coml. 

Hobbies and pas- 


times—and the desire to 


share those interests 
continued to provide 
a welcome diversion in 
2001. Yahoo! Groups 
[groupsyahoo.coml, a col- 
lection of discussion 


boards, was one of the 


portal’s most popular 


growth areas, “Some of 


these special-interest 


: groups are narrowcast to 
a degree possible only on a global network,” 
media theorist Douglas Rushkoff observed in 


“The People’s Net,” Y-Life’s July 2001 cover story. 


| “People interested in anything from absinthe 


| drinking to zither tuning can find one another 


and Microsoft, among others—joined forces to | 


| a portal listing ways for people to donate to the | 


across great distances.” 
As the Net gets bigger, its online communi- 
ties grow stronger, coalesced around common 


ideas, ideals, and interests. 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


©@ LUXURY 


FASHION. WATCH 


HOT PICKS_ 
$100.3290 
Boer #100. 


SHOP BY BRAND, 
HOE By BRAN 


Choo atrend ¢ 
Lous venrToM nour 
SHOPPING 30. 

meats 


tecour 
q 


eLUXURY FAVORITES _ 


eLuxury 

Big-screen glamour helped Amer- 
icans get through the Great De- 

pression. In today's tough times, 
you can aspire to high fashion right 
on your computer screen. Okay, 
so maybe you don't have a spare 
$1,895 for an antique shearling jacket 
from John Varvatos, but not every- 
thing here costs an arm and aleg — 
(usually, just a leg). And there is 
plenty from which to choose, in- 


_ cluding a comprehensive Louis Vuit- 


ton collection, as well as selections 
from such big-name designers as 
Hugo Boss and Donna Karan. Men 
and women fare equally well, so 
window-shoppers can eye sultry 
models of both sexes. [eluxury.com] 


WOMEN_ MEN_ HOME_ GOURMET_. BEAUTY_ BRAND SHOPS_ 


w 0) 
— Est FASHION 


[Ed] [Destination 


BACK 

TO BASICS 

Toon oF te enn vey ose 
tess naotn reeco nose 
tne so 

ews sepa cr com $2279 
vans reer sess 


oe 


> cAKE DECORATORS 16S 
Wort? BCR 1060 GARE) 
> COCONUT LAYER CANE 


Valentine's Day decor, visit the well- 
stocked store. ALSO: Next time the 
kids get crayon on the porcelain, 
check out the Stain Solver, one of 
the many interactive how-to guides 
at BHG.com. [marthastewart. 
com]; [bhg.com] 


BEST HOUSE AND 
HOME COMPANION BEST FOOD AND DRINK 
Martha Stewart P35 HUB 

| 


Martha Stewart may live in a bet- | 
ter neighborhood than you do, 
but your home can look just like 
Martha's—minus the household 
staff. Here, the domestic diva serves 
up a heaping helping of tips, show- 
ing you how to fluff a duvet and 
master the napkin fold. There are 
creative ideas for holidays, but if 
you'd rather buy than make your 


Epicurious 

We love the new design—and if you 
spend enough time here, you'll boast 
a new look, too: extra large. But at 
least you'll beef up in style, dining 
on such meals as curried cider- 
braised pork chops. There are more 
than 13,000 easy-to-follow recipes, 
complete with user reviews. Check 
the stellar Sommelier section for 


wine guides, and the next time you're 
thinking Australian chardonnay, you'll 
know who the premier producers 
are. ALSO: Slice, dice, julienne: 
The video how-to clips at the Food 
Network will walk you through 
kitchen skills from basic to advanced. 
lepicurious.coml]; [foodtv.coml 


[____|BEST GENEALOGY 
|RESOURCE 

ree RootsWeb.com 

Why pay to track down relatives who 
probably didn't leave you money 


anyway? RootsWeb offers more ge- 
nealogy tools than most fee-based 
sites, along with access to a vast com- 
munity of fellow ancestry hunters. 
The databases are filled with birth 
certificates, marriage records, and 
other documents uploaded by users— 
enormously helpful, as most records 
are not otherwise available online. 
Mailing lists and message boards 
let you network with others who may 
be looking for—or have already 
found—the same relatives you're 


seeking. [rootsweb.com] 
RESOURCE 


Dadmag.com 


Don't let the name fool you: This 
site has terrific tips for moms, too, 


BEST PARENTING 


such as what to tell the little tykes 
when they catch you, well, working 
on that next little tyke. Dadmag 
doesn't shy away from the diffi- 
cult topics, such as helping kids 
cope with divorce, and helping 
you cope at home after losing your 
job, ALSO: For the scoop on food 
allergies, kid-safe decor, absent 
spouses, and much more, don't 
buy a book—find a fellow parent. 
The message boards and chats 
on ClubMom will hook you up fast. 
[dadmag.com]; [clubmom.com] 


ber lreaiousise 


RELATIONSHIPS 
____ |COMMUNITY 
Nerve.com 

True confession: We're not all that 
crazy about Nerve's vaunted high- 
brow sex fiction and poetry (though 
itis pretty cool to read Dirty Limer- 
icks by film writer and producer Ethan 
Coen). What makes the site a win- 
ner is its bustling, articulate com- 
munity. The (often painfully) personal 
essays, brutally honest advice 
columns, and slick matchmaking 
tools make Nerve a hip, happening, 
and often hilarious place to meet, 
vent, and bond, [nerve.com] 


[__ |BEST SPIRITUALITY 
ka COMMUNITY 

Beliefnet 
In these trying times, few sites seem 
as relevant. Beliefnet is a multifaith 


community where users not only 
delve into their own faith but also 
learn about others, discovering the 
tenets—and the history—of Chris- 
tianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, 
and other religions. While the con- 
tent helps us understand our neigh- 
bors, the online discussions and 
dialogue groups invite us to ques- 
tion and debate, teach and learn— 
all in a peaceful environment that 
someday, perhaps, we'll be able to 
create offline, too. [beliefnet.com] 


86 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


JOHN RICARD/RETNA 


BEST KIDS’ 
a COMMUNITY 
| AOL: Kids Only 
No one better understands the po- 


tential benefits—and dangers—of 
letting children go online than Amer- 
ica Online. The service's robust 
channel for youngsters is packed 
with kid-friendly games, chat, and 
homework helpers, and is protected 
by parent-friendly safeguards. The 
kids have a ball, and you don't lose 
any sleep. The site is available only 
to AOL members, and it's one of 
the best reasons for signing up. 
[AOL keyword: Kids Only] 


BEST WOMEN'S 
COMMUNITY 
iVillage 


L J 


The superb health section—covering 
everything from pregnancy to pre- 
venting saddle sores while bike rid- 
ing—is reason alone to visit iVillage, 
which now boasts even richer con- 
tent since it acquired Women.com. 
More highlights: the best fem- 


focused message boards on the Web 
(new boards, including one for talk- 
ing to kids, were quickly set up after 
the September 11 attacks), savvy 
relationship advice, diet and fitness 
tips, career resources, and tons of 
tales from the trenches. livillage.coml 


BEST GAY 
COMMUNITY 
|__| Gay.com 
Gay.com serves a variety of audi- 
ences: gays, lesbians, bisexuals, the 


transgender community, and peo- 
ple who really, really like Margaret 
Cho. Happily, it serves them all well. 
Lively chatrooms and personals of- 
fer help on the social front, while ex- 
cellent feature stories tackle more 
practical concerns, such as tax is- 
sues that gay couples face. ALSO: 
The new PridePage covers the lo- 
cal gay scene in some of the world’s 
major cities. Thumbs up, too, for in- 
formative post-attack articles such 
as "Can Queers Donate Blood?” 
[gay.com]; [pridepage.com] 


LIL BOW WOW Fans of the rapper can hit BET.com for the latest. 


[BEST AFRICAN 
ba) AMERICAN 


COMMUNITY 
BET.com 

Sure, you can come here solely for 

the great music, from silky-smooth 

R&B to slammin’ feeds from 


360hiphop.com. But if you stopped 
there, you'd miss out on all the other 
ways in which BET serves its com- 
munity. News stories take a hard look 
at how budget cuts and terrorist 
attacks affect African Americans; 
columns provide practical advice on 
careers and owning a home. And if 
you want to meet people, BET even 
has its own instant-messaging ser- 
vice. ALSO: NetNoir's burgeoning 
small-business directory lets entre- 
preneurs pitch their goods and ser- 
vices to other African Americans. 
[bet.com]; [netnoir.com] 


[__ |BEST LATINO 

a) COMMUNITY 

| El Sitio 

Looking for a Spanish-language 
site with the depth and breadth of 
the best Web portals? No prob- 
ema. Beyond its country-specific 
content (for the U.S., Argentina, 
Brazil, and a half dozen other na- 
tions), El Sitio offers a staggering 
range of resources, from news to 
relationship advice to technology 
tutorials. You can build your own 
Web page, follow your favorite 
sports teams, participate in the 
many chat events, and when—make 
that if—you get a free minute, learn 
how to burn a music CD. If only 
there were an English version for 
the rest of us. [elsitio.com] 


BEST ASIAN AMERICAN 
EY | COMMUNITY 

Click2Asia 
If what you see looks a bit familiar, 
that's because Click2Asia merged 
with last year's champ, aOnline, 
creating a supersite. Asian news is 


covered in depth, but we're also 
partial to the extensive directory of 
sites, which can steer you toward — 
museums in Malaysia, music from 
China, and Thai restaurants in Los 
Angeles. Clubs and a bustling sin- 
gles scene make Click2Asia a great 
way to meet others from around 
the world. [click2asia.com] 


BEST DISABILITY 
HY commun 

WeMedia 
An indispensable resource, We- — 
Media continues to make life for 
disabled people easier—both 
online and off. New this year is the 
site's Talking Browser, which 
"speaks" text that appears on- 


screen, enabling visually impaired 
individuals to use the Web. There 
is a wealth of information on as- 
sistive technologies and employ- 
ment issues, and the marketplace 
sells all manner of medical and 
mobility equipment, from power 
scooters to shower chairs. New, 
too, are the auctions—for hearing 
aids, hands-free accessories, and 
more—thanks to a partnership with 
eBay. [wemedia.com] 


BEST PLACE TO GIVE 
Helping.org 

Whether it's time or money you 

want to donate, Helping.org can 

show you the way. The database | 

contains more than 700,000 non- 


profit organizations, all searchable 
by keyword or category (including 
health, religion, arts, and educa- 
tion). Not only can you make your 
donation online, but you can also 
be sure that your charity gets 100 
percent of it: The site's administra- 
tive costs are covered by the AOL 
Time Warner Foundation. For those 
who want to aid hands-on, the link 
to VolunteerMatch will show you 
which local organizations could use 
the help. [helping.org] 


wwwzyil.com > January 2002 


87 


health&fitne 


s the Internet economy faltered 
this year, the big content sites 
beefed up business with health 
care services—which eventually 
proved to be a lifeline 
When faced with a national emergency, the major 
health-oriented sites proved their worth. By 
noon on September 11, WebMD [webmd.com] posted 
its Special Report: National Tragedy page, where 
people could read—and, in some cases, talk to ex- 
perts—about germ warfare, nightmares, child psy- 
chology issues, post-traumatic stress syndrome, 
and lots more. Medscape Health for Consumers 


By 
also made it easier for caring people far from 
New York City or Washington, D.C., to help. By 


Joanne Chen 


logging on to the American Red Cross [redcross. org]— 
either directly or via links on sites ranging from 
Amazon to Yahoo!—anyone could make a no- 
hassle contribution or find a place to donate blood 
near home. It’s difficult to gauge how well the Red 
Cross would have fared if Net usage weren't as 
ubiquitous as it is, but agency spokesman Phil 
Zepeda confirmed that “an unprecedented number 
of people gave generously.” The Red Cross col- 
lected more than $40 million in online contri- 
butions in a little more thana week, Zepeda said. 
= Meanwhile, fake dis- 
aster relief sites, deliver- 
ing bad information and 
asking for money, soon 
appeared. But news trav- 
els fast online, and savvy 
consumers heeded warn- 
ings about the bogus sites. 
Indeed, as the Internet 
economy sank through- 
out the year, the weed- 
ing out of health sites 
quickened its pace, mak- 
ing the public less likely 
to log on to questionable 
content and dubious 
product pitches. 

Amid the general 
shakedown, even estab- 
lished sites sustained lay- 
offs and eliminated less 
profitable components 
of their business. Rather 
than rely solely on deliv- 


Tea 


ering consumer content, 


consumers, while its sister site, Medscape [medscape. 
coml, helped doctors exchange emergency resource 
information and find out how to volunteer. 
“Lots of people were very thirsty for advice 
dealing with the emotional repercussions of the 
event, and the Internet allowed that information 
to be delivered quickly and privately,” observes Eric 


Brown, a research director at Forrester. The Net 


[medscapehealth.coml provided similar support to | 


which could not be sustained by shrinking ad rev- 
enues alone, heavyweights such as WebMD and 
Medscape beefed up their health care services, 
from streamlining medical insurance transactions 
to offering office-application systems to physi- 
cians. In the process, the sites learned to evolve 
while managing to stay in business. As the recent 
tragedy proved, when used wisely and well, health 
information on the Web can be a real lifeline. 


Y4;} |BEST HEALTH CARE 


PORTAL 
Medscape Health 
for Consumers 


It won't get you through Harvard 
Medical School, but the consumer 
site by Medscape—long a trusted 
resource for health professionals— 
can bring you up to speed on just 
about any medical condition, symp- 
tom, or drug. The 48 topic channels 
go heavy on details, light on jargon. 
ALSO: The animated Anatom-E- 
Tools at WebMD explain spinal dis- 
orders and heart disease better than 
most surgeons, yet don't require a 
copayment. Imedscapehealth.com]; 
[webmd.com] 


___ |BEST CANCER 
RESOURCE 

CancerNet 

This thorough site from the National 
Cancer Institute explores in depth 
the different forms of the disease, 
walking you through treatment 
options, side effects, research 
updates, and detection techniques. 
Follow the link to the NCI's Cancer- 
Trials page to find the latest exper- 
imental trials. [cancernet.gov] 


{__ |BEST HEART DISEASE 
GEG] resource 
Americanheart.org 

The American Heart Association knows 
that there are lots of things you can 
do to prevent heart disease. From 
healthful recipes—yes, you can make 
fried chicken that won't kill you—and 
recommended alcohol intake to a cal- 
culator of target heart rates during ex- 
ercise, the tools here can help you be 
your grumpy old self for years to come. 
You can also learn the warning signs 
of heart attack and stroke, as well as 
the ins and outs of cardiovascular pro- 
cedures. [americanheart.org] 


DOCTOR WITH X-RAY: TONY CORDOZA/GETTYONE: BRAIN MAP: PETER SAMUELS/GETTYONE 


88 Yahoo! Internet Life January 2002 


BEST MENTAL HEALTH 
RESOURCE 
Internet Mental Health 
Mental health problems come in many 
__ shapes and sizes. Panic disorders, 
agoraphobia, bipolar disorder, social 


B | 


phobia—these are serious conditions 
we often don't recognize or under- 
stand. IMH compiles authoritative 
links that lift the veil from a long list 
of disorders, and points to support 
groups and organizations ready to 
help. [mentalhealth.com] 


BEST ALTERNATIVE 
MEDICAL SITE 

NCCAM: National Center for 
Complementary and 
Alternative Medicine 

Can acupuncture relieve dental 
pain? Will vitamin E help prevent 
cancer? The NCCAM, a part of the 
National Institutes of Health, takes 
a hard, scientific look at a wide 
range of alternative healing prac- 
tices, informing you which ones 
have promise (and where you can 
find a clinical trial) and which are 
most likely a waste of your time. 
Handy fact sheets fill you in on 
St. John's wort and other dietary 
supplements. [nccam.nih.gov] 


"BEST FITNESS 
(Eq |¢ NuTRITION site 


Asimba 


Maybe Asimba takes its training 
regimens just a bit too far. Sure, we 
could use daily workout instruc- 
tions, but do we really need a pro- 
gram for walking? And must we 
work our way up to “intermediate 
walking"? But perhaps only a site 
so obsessive about exercise can 
help us get back into shape after 
too many trips to the ice-cream 
truck. You can keep a log of your 
workouts and your diet online; we're 
going to start ours just as soon as 
we finish this hot-fudge sundae. 
[asimba.com] 


| 


ampuses found new ways to use the 
Net to reach out to their communi- 
ties, and free speech in the digital 
domain became a hot-button issue 
While America’s TV news anchors wept and the 
biggest news Web sites strained to accommodate 
unprecedented traffic, personal pages and weblogs 
| stepped in to fill the void following the Septem- 
| ber 11 terrorist attacks, For colleges up and down 
| the island of Manhattan, the Internet became the 
primary means of communication during the emer- 
gency. New York University used e-mail to con- 


| ST romrcnii88 | 


| § \ = 2 


_ tact students who lived at the school’s Wall Street— 
area residences, The New York Law School's Web 


site told students how to get past the police check- 
points once classes resumed at its campus, about 
nine blocks north of the World Trade Center 
debris. Meanwhile, colleges across the country used 
the Web and e-mail to reach out to alumni who 


might have been near ground zero. 


Last year also saw several public legal battles 


llearning&c 


| 


By Matt Goldberg 


over the open exchange of ideas, the significance 


aster debates 


of which was heightened by post-dis 
about the price of personal liberty: 
Inacase that became a lightning rod for the Elec- 
tronic Frontier Foundation [eff.org], FBI agents in 
July apprehended Russian programmer Dmitry 
Sklyarov after he gave a presentation ata U.S. con- 
ference about how to circumvent the anti-copying 
features of Adobe's e-book software—an activity 
made illegal under the controversial Digital Mil- 
lennium Copyright Act. Opponents of the DMCA 
argue that the law impinges on the doctrine of fair 
use, which allows acade- 
mics and students, among 
others, to copy limited 
amounts of content for 
_ their own noncommer- 
cial uses. Adobe dropped 
its initial support for the 
case, and Sklyarov was re- 
leased from jail pending 
trial. But the fight between 
First Amendment advo- 
cates and copyright hold- 
ers over the DMCA is not 
likely to end anytime soon. 
Back in the spring, 
the recording industry 
threatened to sue Prince- 
ton professor Edward 
Felten, who was planning 
to present at a security 
conference a paper on the 
failings of digital music 
encryption. As a pre- 


| Ee | 
ao MET 


try, asking the court to defend Felten’s scientific 


emptive strike, Felten and 
the EFF sued the indus- 


freedom, In September, the U.S. Department of 


Justice filed a motion to dismiss the suit, and the 
case was pending as this magazine went to press. 

Whether one sides with the free-speech sup- 
porters or intellectual-property protectors, the 
importance and fragility of these competing and 
distinctly American rights were dramatically un- 
derscored by the still-vivid events of September 11. 


89 


wwwayil.com > January 2002 


BEST LEARNING 
PORTAL 


Britannica.com 


It's hard not to love a site that gives 
you access to the complete, 32-vol- 
ume Encyclopaedia Britannica— 
though our love was stronger before 
the site started charging $8 a month 
(or $50 a year). Britannica can't be 
beat for researching famous (and 
not-so-famous) people, places, and 

_ things. Exhaustive, well-written 
articles include handpicked links to 
related sites. [britannica.com] 

f ] 

155] BEST DICTIONARY 

ue YourDictionary.com 
Almost any dictionary site can tell 
you what a word means, but this one 


gives you access to an entire lexi- 
cographical universe. The collection 
is stupendous, including dictionar- 
ies for 270 languages; glossaries of 
abbreviations and acronyms; rhyming 
dictionaries; and specialty guides 
for nearly 100 fields, including ac- 
counting, medicine, and—get this— 
leather. [yourdictionary.com] 


BEST REFERENCE 
DIRECTORY 


]Refdesk.com 


Every time we give this site an award, 
we make some lame joke about how 
Refdesk is the work of Bob Drudge, 
who also gave us Matt Drudge (he's 
Bob's son). This time we'll give it 
to you straight: This mind-boggling 
collection of links will take you to 
the Web's top dictionaries, ency- 
clopedias, telephone directories, 
search engines, maps, homework 


helpers, weather reports, newspa- | 


pers, and magazines. [refdesk.coml] 


BEST EDUCATIONAL 
KIDS’ SITE 


DiscoverySchool.com: BJ 


Pinchbeck's Homework Helper 
When he's not out playing laser tag 
or paintball, 14-year-old B.J. Pinch- 


beck is standing by to help kids with 
their homework. No, he won't do 
the assignments, but he can point 
to nicely annotated links to more 
than 700 sites that provide tutorials, 
glossaries, and study aids. [school. 
discovery.com/homeworkhelp/ 
bjpinchbeck] 

| 

|BEST HOW-TO SITE 


i Learn2 


Sure, you can boil an egg, carve a 
turkey, and tune a guitar. But do 
you know how to get a really close 
shave? Learn2's step-by-step tu- 
torials show you how to do practi- 
cally anything, from hosting a wine 
tasting to appreciating what's on 
tap at your corner bar. [learn2.com] 


|__|BEST TRANSLATOR 
/AltaVista: Translate 
____|with Babel Fish 
We give a big thumbs-up—or how- 
ever you say that in Chinese, French, 
German, and a half dozen other lan- 
guages—to this fast, no-nonsense 
translator. Enter up to 150 words in 
one language, or even a URL if you 
want a full Web page translated. 
[babel.altavista.coml 


[__|BEST LITERARY 
RESOURCE 
Bartleby.com 
Never judge a book by its cover. 
Bartleby might not look like much— 
just a whole lot of text—but this 


online library is one of the Net's true 
gems. Read literary masterpieces 
by Dickens, Dostoyevsky, Twain, and 
many others, as well as the Emanci- 
pation Proclamation and other land- 
marks of nonfiction. You'll find scientific 
papers, philosophical treatises, his- 
torical memoirs, and reference tomes. 
Everything is free, and late fees have 
been waived. [bartleby.com] 


| BEST SCIENCE & 
TECHNOLOGY 
|___} RESOURCE 
Marshall Brain's 
HowStuffWorks 
If you want to keep the gang spell- 
bound with fascinating stories of how 
nuclear radiation, kidneys, and Web 
servers work, the hundreds of illus- 


trated, easy-to-follow tutorials here 
are exactly what you need. Just want 
to satisfy your curiosity about how 
boomerangs do their thing? That's 
covered, too. [howstuffworks.com] 


| BEST ORIGINAL 


[Ed wes art 
|____}School of Visual Arts 
The students in SVA's computer art 


department pay big bucks to learn 
how to dazzle us with high-tech 
artistry. If the works displayed on 
their Web sites (which this site links 
to) are any indication, they're get- 
ting their money's worth. Just take 
a look. [www.sva.edu/mfacad] 


| 63) /BESTART MUSEUM 
|__| Guggenheim.com 
Even before its official launch, we 


were gaga over Guggenheim.com. 


Interactive exhibitions are filled with 
eye-popping images (you can catch 
“The Art of the Motorcycle” here if 
you couldn't make it to the Guggen- 
heim in New York City, Spain, or Las 
Vegas). The site plans to add an 
archive of images, commentary, and 
artist profiles. [guggenheim.com] 


BEST LIVING ATLAS 


NationalGeographic.com 


This is the Web's premier spot for ex- 
ploring the world virtually. Take an in- 
teractive tour of the Congo River Basin 
or the mountains of Nepal. Or try the 
MapMachine: Choose what you want 
to see—forests, earthquake faults, 
elevation, precipitation, vegetation, 
or roads and railways—and a beau- 
tiful, full-color map is presented on 
the fly. Inationalgeographic.com] 


BEST CLASSROOM 


ia RESOURCE 
PBS 


Typical kids don't usually tune into 
Nova or Masterpiece Theatre on their 


own, so why not encourage them 
by building a lesson plan around a 
show and flunking them if they don't 
watch? This site is loaded with ideas 
on how to incorporate a program— 
for example, the Nova episode “Lost 
at Sea: The Search for Longitude" — 
into a creative discussion. [pbs.org] 


90 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


EARTH: BRUCE WANDS; AIRPORT: LUC BEZIAT/GETTYONE 


hough grounded abruptly, high- 
flying travel sites responded 
quickly. Now e-tourism is show- 
ing signs of recovery 
Before terrorists turned four U.S, passenger planes 
into deadly weapons, online travel was one e-com- 
merce category that defied the dot-com decline. Not 
only had Expedia.com, Travelocity.com, and Priceline. 
com achieved profitability, but newcomer Orbitz 
lorbitz.com]—the fastest-growing Web site on 


record—had inert 


sed competition among them 


Immediately following the hijackings, demand 


and ideas for travel fell precipitously. Airlines al- 
ready staggering from the recession began reduc- 
ing flights and staff. Online bookings plummeted: 


Expedia reported a decrease in reservations of about 


45 percent by the week's end. Biztravel.com ces 
fter the assaul 


operations altogether 10 days 
bolster the airline industry, Pr 


ident Bush signed 
into law a $15 billion emergency aid package. 


Every major online travel agency quickly re- 


By Susan Breslow Sardone 
sponded to the disaster through customer-service 
initiatives, Expedia's Travel Disruptions; Resource 
Center and Orbitz’ 


themselves as especially comprehensive. Succinct 


ravel Watch distinguished 


bulletins from Smarter Living [smarterliving.com] 
illuminated the tragedy’s immediate effects and 


presented tr: with useful insights, 

While the full effect of the attacks has yet to 
be determined, the $455 billion worldwide travel- 
and-tourism business is showing resiliency, A week 
after the September 11 violence, in a nationwide 
survey by the Simmons Market Research Bureau, 
57 percent of frequent 
leisure travelers said the 
attacks would have little 
or no effect on their plans. 
Expedia, the only online 
travel agent to report 
numbers, noted a mod- 


est increase in bookings. 


By mid-October, Trave- 
locity reported that air 
ticket sales had bounced 
back to 80 to 90 percent 
of pre-September 11 lev- 
els. And while the attacks 
slowed industry growth, 
e-bookings continued to 
expand; PhoCus Wright 
analysts predict that 
online sales will make 
up 15 percent of the travel 
business in 2002. 
Ground-transporta- 
tion providers witnessed 
“it a dramatic spike in Web 
site visits, Amtrak [amtrak. 
September 


coml registered a 100 percent inc 
13, and into October, traffic continued at about 25 


percent above the predisaster level. 
Given that Americans have always loved to 


travel, an airline andustoy rebound is more than 


likely. “It will take time,” LeVine, Expe- 
dia’s director of product marketing. “What needs 
to happen is that we find a balance as a traveling 


country, between convenience and secur 


BEST OVERALL 
|_| TRAVEL SITE 
Expedia.com 

This travel megahub has long run 
neck and neck with rival Traveloc- 
ity, which won our Gold Star back 
in June for its innovative trip-plan- 
ning tools. But in the wake of the 
terrorist attacks, Expedia nosed 
ahead by doing the best job of keep- 
ing us abreast of security proce- 
dures, listing airport closings and 
restrictions (even seemingly minor 
ones, such as the off-limits lockers 
at Denver International), and telling 
us which tourist attractions were 
closed, ALSO: With the Net's biggest 
database of Web-only discount air- 
fares, newcomer Orbitz flies high. 
lexpedia.com]; lorbitz.com] 


BEST TRAVELDEALS 
Priceline.com 

It's the site travelers either love or 
hate. If you're flexible—you can live 
with a7 A.M. departure that makes a 
stop, for instance, and you don't care 
who provides your rental car or ho- 
tel room—Priceline can come through 
with great rates. That's particularly 
true for last-minute travel, when air- 
lines typically charge top dollar. Do 


your research before you hit Price- 
line, name a low but still-reasonable 
price, and odds are you'll be travel- 
ing on the cheap. [priceline.com] 


/__|BESTADVENTURE 
rm TRAVELSITE 
iExplore 
iExplore has a pretty liberal defini- 
tion of adventure. If you're not ready 
for scuba diving, white-water rafting, 
ora safari expedition, you can check 
out the itinerary for a relaxing food- 
and-wine excursion in Tuscany (hey, 
it's outdoors, at least). Whatever your 
pleasure, iExplore provides experts 


Yahoo! Internet Life>January 2002 93 


who can field your questions, and 
it can hook you up with vacation 
packages. liexplore.com] 


(Q) |Best city Guipes 

__| Citysearch 
Say you're looking for the best pizza 
in Columbus, Ohio. We've got two 
helpful hints. First, don't. Second, if 
you insist, at least check Citysearch, 
Its guides to more than 40 USS. cities 
can tell you where to see it, do it, 
play it, eat it, and buy it. ALSO: Keep- 
ing up with the hottest clubs in town 
is a full-time job—and it's been filled, 
by Timeout.com. [citysearch.com]; 
[timeout.com] 


—___|BEST TRAVEL 
COMMUNITY 
IgoUgo 
The user journals on IgoUgo tell of 
adventures large and small, in places 
from Antarctica to Zimbabwe. The 
restaurant and hotel reviews are writ- 
ten by folks who have been there— 
and sometimes wish they hadn't 
been. A stop here can save you grief 
and add sight-seeing pleasures to 


your next excursion. If you post a 
journal when you get back from your 
trip, you can earn points redeemable 
for travel gear and frequent-flier 
miles. [igougo.com] 


BEST GOLF GUIDES 

GolfOnline: 

| Courses/Travel 
Lugging your clubs through the 
airport is the easy part. Harder is 
knowing which plane to board 
for a great golf vacation. Luckily, 
the editors of Golf Magazine have 
played all the top courses and 
stayed at all the big-time resorts 
(it's a tough life). But the magazine 
pros aren't the only ones weighing 
in. GolfOnline's excellent course 
finder draws from a database of 
greens worldwide and includes user 
comments. [golfonline.com/travell 


3 
oO 
im 
re) 
ica 
wn 
= 


he direct hit on Wall Street accel- 
erated the decline of e-brokers. 


systems performed well 


| 
] 


_ nation, buying and selling stocks with staccato 


clicks via online brokers. Talk about reversal 


of fortune! The sobering events of the past year 
) including the dot-com collapse and the first 
recession in a decade—have changed how we look 


at life and money alike. 


In the stock market, competition among 


cyberbrokers—which had become so heated that 


it briefly pushed commiss s low as...well, zero 
is over, with some firms closing their doors and 


| others 


elling out. And with trading volume dry- 
| ing up, the survivors have been none too shy about 
| wringing more revenue from their customers. 
| CharlesSchwab [charlesschwab.coml, for instanc 


ce fees for accounts of les 


| has upped its maintena 
i PoP oR 
| than $5,000 (to $45 from $25) and raised its min- 


‘Twelve months ago, we were still a day-trading 


But new Net-based bond-trading 


imum no-fee balance (to $50,000 from $20,000). 
Ouch. Trades are getting more expensive as well: 
TD Waterhouse [tdwaterhouse.com] upped its com- 
missions from $12 to $15 for all customers except 


those who trade at least 72 times a year or have an 


account of $500,000 or more. E-brokers are also 
pulling back on cutting-edge services. Indeed, Aether 


Systems, once tech- 


major provider of wire 


nology to financial institutions, is now focused on 
selling its services to police departments, truck dis- 
patchers, and package-delivery firms. 

At the same time, the World Trade Center at- 
tacks are likely to prod 
Wall Street into a fully 
digital future. For some 
firms, the challenge of 
rebuilding included re- 
assembling the portfo- 
lios of countless customers 
whose stock certificates, 
order confirmations, and 
account records were 
found miles away from 
the explosion—if at all. 
Although all the invest- 
ments were safe, since 
they were insured, the 
tragedy is likely to accel- 
erate ongoing efforts to 
purge physical certificates 
from the securities- 
trading process. 

While Wall Street 
faced the daunting chal- 
lenge of reopening the 
markets, many traders 
were pleasantly surprised 
at how well TradeWeb [tradeweb.coml and other 
nascent Internet-based bond-trading systems 


handled the crush of incoming orders. “There was 
a lot of reliance among Wall Street pros on elec- 


tronic trading systems,” noted Andrew Nybo, a 


senior analyst with TowerGroup. As a result, in 


coming years it may suddenly be as cheap and easy 


for online inves 


ors to buy bonds as it was to buy 
stocks during the 1990s. 


JONATHAN KIRN/GETTYONE 


94 Yahoo! Internet Life January 2002 


~_ BEST PERSONAL 
FINANCE SITE 


____]SmartMoney.com 


Planning for your retirement or the 
kids' education may well drain your 
checking account, but it shouldn't de- 
plete your patience. SmartMoney of- 
fers savvy advice and some of the 
best tools on the Web, including a 
work sheet to determine which type 
of IRA suits your needs. If you're an 
investing newbie who thinks “large 
caps” are for bigheaded Yankees fans, 
fear not The outstanding SmartMoney 
University can walk you through the 
basics, ALSO: Boasting the best on- 
line portfolio manager, MSN: Money 
automatically alerts you to splits 
and dividends. [smartmoney.com]; 
[moneycentral.com] 


WE] |Best Tax ADVICE 
__|TaxPlanet.com 
Give Gary Klott points just for writ- 
ing an article titled “Charitable Tax 
Aspects of the Jewish High Holidays,” 
let alone making it accessible and 
informative. Beyond copious links to 
tax forms and IRS publications, the 
site offers stellar tips on making 
Uncle Sam's bite smaller. After Sep- 
tember 11, TaxPlanet also provided 
excellent post-attack updates, not- 
ing which deadlines had been ex- 
tended and how taxpayers who 
suffered property losses could get 
quick refunds by filing amended 
returns for 2000. [taxplanet.com] 


BEST ONLINE 

BROKER 

____] CharlesSchwab 
Ittakes bucks to make bucks. 
At 30 bucks per trade, 
Schwab is by no means the 


cheapest online broker. But 
it is the most robust, with 
top-notch research and fea- 
tures that cater to veteran 
investors (advanced options 
trading) as well as begin- 


ners (a first-rate learning center). Off- 
line, visit any of the 400-plus Schwab 
branches for some face time with an 
expert. [charlesschwab.com] 


al BEST ONLINE BANK 


| ___ICiti 

Citigroup's site is so feature-rich 
and well-designed, you'll almost 
enjoy balancing your checkbook. 
The site lets you pay bills online 
for free, see what the day's trans- 
actions have been, get wireless 
alerts when a check you wrote is 
presented for payment, and use 
the C2it service to e-mail money 
to your relatives. [citiicom] 


[__|BEST FINANCIAL 

|PLANNER 

| Financial Engines 
Input your investment information 
and Bill Sharpe's slick site will tell 
you how your portfolio is likely to 
perform over the long run. For a 
$300 annual fee, Financial Engines 
will tell you how you can do even 
better, suggesting mutual funds to 
buy and sell. Why put your money 
where Sharpe's mouth is? He's won 
a Nobel Prize in economics, and you 
probably haven't. Access to the 
jargon-free tutorials and fund score- 


cards is free. Ifinancialengines.coml 
| atl | 


WEA | Best JoB-HUNTING SITE 
| Monster.com 
One way to remain the Web's best 
job site is to buy the Web's second- 


best job site—which Monster did 
through its (still pending at press 
time) acquisition of Hotlobs. An- 
other way is to keep adding all sorts 
of terrific new features, including an 
online career fair for people with 
disabilities; a superb relocation 
center that provides instant mover 
quotes and, if you'd rather haul it 
yourself, helps you find truck rentals; 
and enough résumé and interviewing 
tips to help you land a job in even 
the most troubled of economic times. 
[monster.com] 


IZ) |Best LOAN SOURCE 
mal GetSmart 

We can't think of an easier way to 

borrow money that doesn't involve 
a risk of broken bones 
for late payment. An- 
swer a few simple 
questions and Get- 


base of more than 
100 lenders to match 
you with the best 
loans. You don't need 
to be in the market 
for a mortgage refi- 
nancing, either: Get- 


Smartscours its data- | 


Smart is a great place to compare 
credit cards. When you find the one 
that best fits the bill, you can apply 


online. [getsmart.com] 
7 


Other car-buying sites let you 
research and configure cars only to 


BEST CAR-BUYING HUB 


CarsDirect.com 


pass you off to dealers who call and 
e-mail—and call and e-mail—try- 
ing to get you into the showroom. 
CarsDirect wants you to stay right 
where you are. From its site, you can 
home in on a make and model, price 
it, configure it, finance it, and order 
your new wheels then and there. 
Sure, that's a mighty big purchase 
to make on the Web—but it's a big 
purchase at the showroom, too. And 
the prices here are often better. 
Icarsdirect.com] 


BEST INSURANCE 

ET] |BROKER 

i___]InsWeb 
Some people climb Mount Ever- 
est, some run marathons, and some 
try to figure out insurance. InsWeb 
doesn't make all the fine print go 
away, but it can remove a good 


wwwyil.com > January 2002 


95 


chunk of the confusion with its ex- 
cellent tutorials. Compare quotes on 
auto, life, health, homeowner, and 
other types of insurance from All- 


state, Prudential, Travelers, and other 


major players. linsweb.com] 


BEST HOME- 
BUYING HUB 

MSN: HomeAdvisor 
Microsoft's home-buying site has 
been remodeled more often than 


that matter, Michael Jackson). But 
the tinkering has paid off: Home- 


Advisor's slick interface makes it a | 


snap to wade through the vast list- 
ings and even plot nearby homes 
ona neighborhood map. The site's 
tools and tutorials are unrivaled. Get 
the estimated value of a house, learn 
about recent sales in the area, and 
see whether you're better off with a 
fixed-rate or adjustable-rate mort- 
gage. [homeadvisor.coml 


Bo 


BEST ONLINE STORE 


Amazon.com 


We've already rewarded this store 
with a hefty chunk of our income— 
and we'd give it even more money 
if we were better paid. Need more 
justification? Start with superior ser- 
vice, excellent product selection (in- 
cluding spanking-new computer and 
travel departments), and frequent 
promotions, such as free shipping 
and dollars-off coupons. Then add 
the voluminous—and invaluable— 
consumer product reviews. ALSO: 
Wal-Mart can't match Amazon's se- 
lection, but it often beats its prices— 
and pays for return shipping to boot. 
[amazon.com]; [walmart.com] 


| 
| 
It comes closer than any other site 
to replicating that big suburban mall 


you grew up with (minus the 
Friendly's). Browse Barnesand- 


BEST SHOPPING HUB 
Yahoo! Shopping 


Michael Jackson's mansion (or, for | 


Noble.com and other big-name mer- 
chants side by side with thousands 
of mom-and-pop shops. Type in what 
you're looking for—a CD, DVD, video 
game, or practically anything else— 
and find out which merchants are 
offering itand for how much. You can 
store all your shipping and billing 
information, go through checkout in 
most stores without ever leaving 
Yahoo!, and track all your orders from 
a single page. [shoppingyahoo.com] 


—_ 


BEST AUCTIONS 

eBay 

If you think our perennial winner 
eBay has been resting on its lau- 
rels, your thinking is just going, 
going, gone! New sections for cars, 
fine art, and real estate target up- 
market bidders and sellers while 
the new eBay Stores section caters 
to those who don't have the time, 
or patience, for bidding; Just click 
and buy the darn thing outright. 
Sure, eBay is still your go-to source 
for that Mork & Mindy alarm clock 
your mom never bought you, but 


96 Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


in these serious times, eBay has 
gotten serious, too: Its Auction for 
America campaign raised millions 
of dollars for victims of the Sep- 


tember 11 terrorist attacks. [ebay.com] 


[ES] [BEST VIRTUAL MONEY 
PayPal 

Some credit for eBay's success 
belongs to PayPal. The popular 
service eliminates the need to mail 
checks or stand in line for money 

| orders, making it easier for indi- 
vidual buyers and sellers to do busi- 
ness. Just enter a dollar amount and 
the e-mail address of your payee; 
the site whisks the money from your 
bank or credit card account to the 
proper party. There are no fees for 
sending money, and while high-vol- 


ume users are charged for receiv- | 


ing funds, PayPal’s rates often beat 
its rivals’. [paypal.com] 


HED) |Best PRICE FINDER 
PriceGrabber.com 
No, we don't want to spend a cent 
more than we have to on that new 


Game Boy. But we also don't want 
to deal with a fly-by-night retailer 
whose cut-rate prices really are too 
good to be true. PriceGrabber scours 
the Web for deals, and its user-con- 
tributed reviews can clue you in to 
which merchants are reliable. 


| [pricegrabber.com] 


mu 


BEST BARGAIN HUNTER 
Techbargains.com 

Okay, so maybe sniffing around 
the Web for shopping promotions 
is a bit déclassé for your taste. But 
admit it: If someone told you how 
you could save $10 on your next 
Amazon purchase, you'd bite, right? 
We thought so. Techbargains gives 


you the scoop on great sales, free 
shipping offers, and those neat 
dollars-off coupon codes, It also tracks — 
rebates and price breaks to direct | 
you to additional savings. Don't 
let the name fool you, either: Book 
buyers and music lovers can reap 
big dividends here, as well. 
[techbargains.com] 


| |BEST CONSUMER 


PRODUCT REVIEWS 
Epinions.com 

No one ever said shopping was 
easy. But thanks to Epinions, at 


| least it doesn't have to be risky. 


Here you can find abundant and 


_ detailed user reviews on just about 
' anything you can point, shoot, ride, 


watch, or (yes) eat. Interested in an 


| Apple Titanium PowerBook G4? 


Read the 40 member reviews 


exploring all the pros and cons. By 


the time you're done, there'll be 
an even better model out there. 
ALSO: ConsumerReview.com 
attracts knowledgeable enthusi- 
asts who don't sugarcoat their 
product evaluations. Reviews cover 
mountain bikes, snowboards, 
cameras, and dozens of other 
categories. [www.epinions.com]; | 
[consumerreview.com] 


MORK & MINDY: FOTO FANTASIES; MONITOR: NIKOLAEVICH/PHOTONICA 


newstmed 


he biggest story in decades drove 
millions to the Net in search of 
news. Sites small and large rose 
to meet the challenge 


Online media spent most of the year in a funk. 
Banner ads didn’t work; Suck [suck.com] folded 
in June after years of sarcastic commentary; 
ashed their Web staffs to the bone. 


newspapers 
Info junkies were abandoning quirky terrain for 
monoliths such as MSNBC [msnbc.com], The New 
York Times reported in August. 

Then came September 11. While the big news 


sites struggled to handle the surge in traffic, grass- 
roots weblogs such as Kottke.org filled the gap with 
hair-raising eyewitness accounts and photos. 


Within a month, according to an ABC News | 


survey, 36 percent of Americans were ac 
Net news sites more often than ever before; traf- 
fic from office workers to CNN.com alone more 
than doubled. Newsgroups exploded with the 


usual conspiracy theories, but at the same time, 


By 


Steve 


Knopper 


the Web was quick to counter dangerous gossip 
with reliable information. When the anthrax at- 
| tacks began, a crucial “Do not panic” FAQ ap- 
| peared at CDC: Public Health Emergency Preparedness 
& Response [www.bt.cdc.gov], and the Department 
of Defense launched the online Anthrax Vaccine 
Immunization Program [www.anthrax.osd.mill. 

To meet growing demand, major players such 
as Washingtonpost.com beefed up their servers, en- 
abling them to deliver news more thoroughly than 
television and more quickly than newspapers. The 
spectrum of available information also broadened. 

Whereas during World 
War I Americans relied 
almost exclusively on 
radio reports for break- 
ing headlines, today they 
can find British intelli- 
gence news via the com- 
munity weblog MetaFilter 
Imetafilter.com], rah-rah 
exclusives at the Drudge 
Report [drudgereport.coml, 
and first-person accounts 
of abuse by the Taliban 
at Salon.com. 

Creative minds on the 
Web were also respon- 
sible for one of the more 
surreal moments in re- 
cent history: Doctored 
photos downloaded from 
the Net—of Osama bin 
Laden with Sesame Street's 
Bert—appeared in anti- 
US. posters around the 
world. Even the rumor- 
| busting Snopes.com: Urban Legends Reference Pages 
| [snopes.com] concluded this one was real, leaving 
the jester behind the now-defunct site Bert Is 


“il to issue a statement. “This has gotten too close 
to reality,” Dino Ignacio wrote on October 11, when 
he removed his archive of the Muppet’s faux mis- 
deeds. “I choose to be responsible enough to stop 
it right here’—a good sign that, even at its Pretty 
Strange extremes, the Net is growing up. 


BEST NEWS SITE 

BBCi 

Why hop across the pond for news? 
BBCi has always been a superb source 
for coverage of international events, 
and it currently provides more ob- 
jective information about America's 
war on terrorism than many home- 
grown sites. Links to past archives 
and outside sources make it easy to 
research the background on topics 
fanging from the human genome to 
the future of the Concorde. And the 
site's slick interactive features rival 
those of its U.S. competitors. ALSO: 
CNN.com eats breaking news for 
breakfast, while MSNBC scores big 
with in-depth reports that go heavy 
on the multimedia. [bbc.co.uk]; 
[cnn.com]; [msnbc.com] 


| BEST NEWSPAPER 


2] ontine 
Washingtonpost.com 


Its reporters figured out Watergate, 
so it's no big surprise that the Post 
has mastered online news. Wash- 
ingtonpost.com is a textbook ex- 
ample of how to run a newsroom 
on the Web. The site is frequently 
updated, has many Net extras, and 
boasts an array of chats with movers 
and shakers. A searchable archive 
goes back to 1977 (other major pa- 
pers are still stuck in the '90s). ALSO: 
It's hard to beat The New York Times 
on the Web for good old-fashioned 
reporting. [washingtonpost.com]; 
[nytimes.com] 


|___ |BEST BUSINESS NEWS 
WSJ.com: 

| The Wall Street Journal 
Just blocks from ground zero on Sep- 
tember 11, WSJ.com was forced to 
evacuate its debris-strewn news- 
room—and immediately got back to 
business as usual, publishing the 


www.yil.com > January 2002 


97 


best financial journalism around. This 
is why we gladly pay the $59 per year 
($29 for print subscribers). We also 
like WSJ.com's expanded technol- 
ogy coverage and free audio version 
of the news. [wsj.com] 


BEST INTERACTIVE 

£) |crapnics 

____]USA Today 
You have to look hard to find a site 
that does graphics as well as USA 
Today. Annotated animations 
and illustrations explain intricate 
subjects such as bioterrorism 
pathogens with stunning visuals 
and clear, concise text descriptions. 
For once it's okay to just look at 
the pictures. [usatoday.com] 


~___ |BEST ONLINE MAGAZINE 

| 93} \Slate 

_____| Part of what makes Siate great 
is the collaborative features—Di- 
ary, for instance—where contribu- 
tors interact. Then there's the bracing 
breadth of content. While never 
failing to inform us—or opine— 
about the day's top stories, the site 
doesn't skimp on the offbeat stuff, 
including how to bet wisely on the 
final round of Jeopardy! ALSO: Yup, 
you've now got to pay to access 
most of the news and political cov- 
erage on Salon.com (other sections 
are still free), but this site remains 
a favorite for its often provocative 
articles. [slate.com]; [salon.com] 


| BESTNETNEWS 

MONITOR 

| OJR: Online Journalism 

Review 

As amedium for delivering the news, 
the Web is still in its infancy. So who 
is doing it well? The OJR does a nice 
job of answering that question. The 
site looks at how journalistic ethics 
and methods are applied online— 
and how news outlets are leverag- 


ing (or ignoring) the Net's interac- 
tive capabilities. [ojr.org] 


[EG] Best Exposés 
The Smoking Gun 

We can't resist checking out the em- 

barrassing public documents TSG 

manages to dig up. Artist contracts 

spell out all the wacky backstage — 

requirements of pampered stars | 
(Mariah Carey prefers "bendy — 
straws"); wedding registry lists let 
us know that even the biggest | 
celebrities need the same crap we 
do. And who could ever tire of 
following the courtroom exploits of 
a favorite Survivor contestant? 
[thesmokinggun.com] 


ES oes WEB LOG 


Kottke.org 

Before September 11, few of us had 
even heard of this personal blog, — 
where Jason Kottke links to sites 
that strike his fancy and rambles on 
about technology, movies, and his 
adventures watching Emeril Live. 
But afterward, Kottke.org became 


required surfing for its links to com- | 98) 
pelling first-person accounts from —___| 


ground zero and harrowing video 
and images. [kottke.org] 


BEST HUMOR 
MAGAZINE 

The Onion 
The best comedians take chances. 
Last fall, The Onion dared to glean 
the first strands of dark humor from 
tragedy. Risky stuff? You bet. But the 
site pulled it off. Headlines such as 
"God Angrily Clarifies ‘Don't Kill’ Rule” 
showed that even in the worst mo- 
ments, satire can be biting, respect- | 
ful, and sorely needed. ALSO: Modern 
Humorist, a contributor to Y-Life, is 
often nose-to-nose with The Onion 
with such fare as a Zagat survey of 
the Afghan food drops. [theonion. 
com]; [modernhumorist.com] 


GLITTERATI Mariah Carey's backstage wish list, courtesy of the Smoking Gun. 


BEST ALTERNATIVE 
PRESS SITE 

AlterNet.org 

With all the big-bucks news organi- 
zations on the Web, you might miss 
some great journalism from the often 
controversial alternative press. Alter- 
Net's mission is to make sure you 
don't. The site links you not only to its 
own writing on politics, environ- 
mental issues, and the war on drugs 
(among other topics) but also to some 
of the best work from its counterparts 
around the world. [alternet.org] 


zs CULTURAL DIGEST 
Arts & Letters Daily 


If you thought this site was just for 
pompous eggheads, well, we can see 
your point. There is, after all, the Latin 
slogan on the home page (veritas odit 
moras) and the articles on philoso- 
phy and classical music. But not so 


fast. Here you'll also discover the best 
museum pickup spots in Italy and 
learn that, according to one study, 
you're more likely to score while view- 
ing a Caravaggio painting than not. 
Oh, heck, maybe this is for pompous 
eggheads after all. [aldaily.com] 
BEST MEDIA NEWS 
Hog AND GOSSIP 
Jim Romenesko's 
MediaNews 

Each day, in what amounts to a na- 
tional bulletin board for journalists, 
Jim Romenesko posts the news about 
the news, from heady debates on eth- 
ical issues to catty dish from Condé 
Nast. But the site is a terrific resource 
for anyone interested in the media in- 
dustry. Get savvy commentary from 
around the Web on how well we're 
doing our job and what we could be 
doing better. Imedianews.org] 


98 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


AUDIO Vib Risiee los eboMas hea Nie TT 


A 


Or Alrs 


SS 


o! Internet Life’s listi new products, promotions & Web happenings! 


www.harman-multimedia.com www.toyota.com/studiomatrix 


q cy TAD 


Win A Toyota Matrix! 


harman/kardon Mix your own Toyota Matrix music video 
Introducing the new harman/kardon and you could win an all new 2003 Toyota Matrix! 
Champagne SE speaker system. The two To enter, go to www.toyota.com/studiomatrix 
powered satellite speakers and subwoofer and click on the contest icon. 
drive a multimedia system that 
sounds as amazing as it looks. Contest ends January 23, 2002. 
Get yours at www.harman-multimedia.com. See official rules for details. 


- 
www. bestbuy.com www.roxio.com 


BestBuy.com™ 
This holiday season give the gifts Burn your family slide shows to CD and add 
they really want. At BestBuy.com you can your favorite music tracks. With Easy CD Creator® 5 
find all the latest in technology and Platinum, from Roxio. The best-selling cd burning 
entertainment products. software in the world. Available at your local retailer 
Turn On the Fun at Best Buy. or at www.roxio.com. 


hoo! Internet Life's CyberShop the Latest and Most Internet Savvy Products and Services 


Welcome to MarketLINK DIRECT, your cybershop. We have created this section for you find the latest and most Internet savvy products 
and services. Watch as our section grows showcasing products you need and want. Look for HOT sites, training, education and self- 
improvement products. The list is endless. Why search on the Net when you can shop right here in the back of your favorite magazine, 
Yahoo! Internet life. Look for just about anything you can or can't find, in MarketLINK — DIRECT, the cybershop. 


Martin Kropf Scott Nathanson Kathy Rosa Osbourne Traill Jason Sparks 
212-503- 5067 212-503-4844 212-503-4847 212-503-3284 212-503-4849 


MARKETLINK SALES 1-877-267-2315 


Adsdotcom www.intercasino.com 102 Ei Printing www.checksforless.com 101 
America’s Mediamarketing www.amm.com 101 A Foreign Affair www.myforeigniove.com 101 
American College of www.accis.edu 101 Forwardslash www.luckynugget.com/yahoo 103 


Computer & Information Sciences 
Softman www.buycheapsoftware.com 101 


Big Clearance www.bigclearance.com 100 


CLEARANCE.COM 


Buyers, Sellers & Dealers Welcome 


Adobe Top Products Microsoft Windows 
Illustrator... " WordPerfect Std $44 Windows XP Home tom $105 BackOffice Server 
PageMaker . WordPerfect Pro $55 Windows XP Pro .. «tom $152 BackOffice SBS ......... trom $899 
FrameMaker Intuit Top Products Windows 2000 Pro ....... Symantec 
InDesign Quicken Deluxe ton $26 Windows NT 4.0 ton Norton AntiVirus tom $16 
GoLive. . . Quicken Suite $32 Windows Me . Internet Security 
LiveMotion Quickbooks Pro . . » $179 Windows 98.2 

Quickbooks Pro 5 user... Windows 95. trom PC Anywhere... 

Quickbooks Std t Microsoft Servers WinFax Pro 
Borland Top Products Microsoft Office Products Windows 2000 Server tom $759 SystemWorks Pro. 
Borland C++ from Office XP... sees fom NT Server to McAffee 
Borland Delphi Office 2000. . ISA Server VIPUSSCAN sok ois ae sieie ee a trom $15, 
Boland JBuilder .......... on Office 97 .... = te SQL Server ter Utilities Deluxe. 
Corel Top Products Word 2000 . Commerce Server. te Office 2000 ... 
CorelDRAW...........-. tom $289 Project 2000. . BizTalk Server Total Virus Defense 


2 
ico] 
= 
~ 
Ge 
fo) 
172) 
1 
ao 


FREE SHIPPING! 


www.bigclearance.com 888-828-3636 


100 Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


HE AP SOFT 
CHEAP SOFTWARE 


www. buycheapsoftware. com 


TOLL FREE 
SAMEDAY SHIPPING 
10% SATISFACTION 

MONEY ACK GUARANTEE 


Wordperfect Office 2002 Pra F 
Wordpertect Otfice 2002 Pra F 
Wordperfect Otfice 2000 Std. 
Wordperfect Office 8.0 Fu 
CorelDraw 10.0 Graphic Suite 
CorelDraw 9.0 Full Ri 
CorelDraw 9.0 Graphic Suite CD-eManval 


aie 2000 Pro ir 
Olfce 2000 smal aus. coal oe 
Works Suite ent w/Word 2000 Fut com version 
Word 2000 Ful sem Version 
Works 4.5 and Money 99 1 
roject 2000 Full Version Retall Box. 
Visual Basic Prox 6.0 Full Ver, Retail Box 
Visual C++ Pro 6.0 Full Ver. Retail Box 
Visual Studio Prot 6.0 Full Ver. Retail 
Visual Studio Ent. 6.0 Plus Full Ver. Ret 
Windows 98,2 CO-Manual-Lic. Fu 0S? Ve 
Windows 95 OSR 2.5 w/co 


Lotus Millenium 9.5, 
Lotus Millenium 9. 
Lotus SmartSuite 97 CO only Full oem V 


Norton Anti-Virus 2002 Pro c 
Norton Anti-Virus 2001 Pro Fu: 
Internet Security 2002 Retal Box 

Norton System Works 2002 Pro c 


Norton System Works 2001 Pr 
Meer 311k ie 6.22 PC Anywhere32 10 
I 1Q Di ACT 2000 C0 ony Ful 
NT Workstation 4.0 Full oem Ve 7 | ACT 2000 co: 
NT Server 4.0 CO/Manual w/5 Ci 5 | Wintax Pro 10.0 
Full Retail ProComm Plus 32 V 


Full Retail w/10 CAL 
er Full Retall w/25 CAL 
Full Retail Box w/5 CAL 


MeAlee Viruscan 6 fi 
McAlee Utilities Deluxe 2000 
McAfee Office 2000 Ful Ver 


DEALER INQUIRIES WELCOME 
Wo Credit Card Surcharge “Price after Man. rebate 


BackOlfice Server 2000 Full Real wis ca. 
BackOffice 4.5 Small Bus, Server ws-caL 
BackOffice 4.5 Server w/25-CAL 


rir POs & 
Col OME 


12654 W. Washington BI., Los Angeles, CA 90066 


zm) 


Meet 1,000's of sincere, marrlage-minded | 
10 EXCITING DESTINATIONS 
In Russla, Ukralne, Latvia & Colombla, S.A 
Free addresses, £2-Dos Fiancee Visa Mt and Ta 
‘Guide with your minimum four reservation 
« 7 to 22 day tour options 
5 Socials - 100’s of ladies 
* 4 Star Hotels 
*75,000+ photos 
* 1000's of suc- 
cessful marriage: 
since 1995 


* Visa & Travel § 
A Foreign Affair, 4 


Call: 800.245.5775 
Fax: 800.893.0177 
Email: info@checksforiess.com 


www.checksforless.co 


Now offering toner/inkjet cartridges 


Anywhere, 
Anytime, 
Always 


the leading edge of learning. 


Earn your college degree in computer 
science or information systems through 
ACCIS' distance education programs. 


Earn your B.S. or M.S. degree 

No classes to attend 

Self-paced study 

VA eligible 

DANTES Affiliated NNNONNINOL ION 


For a free catalogue 
call 1-800-767-2427 
or visit www.accis.edu 


American College 
of Computer 
Information Sciences 


ACCREDITED MEMBER DISTANCE EDUCATION TRAINING COUNCIL 


AMERICA’S 
MEDIAMARKETING.y 
1-800-647-7902 www.ammclass.com 
Visit www.ammyahoo.com for links 
to some of these advertisers and many more! 


GIFT IDEAS 


BEAUTIFUL QUALITY GIFTS, reasonable prices, 
ting accessories, secure ordering, www it- 
insgifts.com 


OF INTEREST TO ALL 
BUY FORECLOSED PROPERTY! Use Our PUBLISH YOUR BOOK for as ltie as $97.50 in7 
Profits! Trai information: days. Instantpublisher.com 


ext. 181 a VACATION RENTALS. 


NEED MORE INCOME Growing Biz needs help! “gos0+ VACATION RENTALS 
$1000-10,000 PTIFT Training _http:/icyberrentals.com. Rent homes, villas, con- 
TeamFromHome.com dos direct from owners. Call 1-800-628-0558 for 


HOME FURNISHINGS FREE color magazine. CyberRentals.com 
FREE LINENSOURCE CATALOG! Affordable lux- HOTELS 
fe home. Over 12,000 bedding and bath DISCOUNT HOTEL RATES Veg: 


www.C¢ pal! rJobsAtHome,Com 
1 20 Ext. CJ 


AMERICAN DREAM 
Internet/Mail Order 


CABLE TV 
DESCR Assi = as 


ur Own, lecide 
eee veel rot Dobe You Chica) 


lwww.WorkAtHomelncome.com 
1-800-377-6000 Ext. 5425 


Get PAID to go Shopping, Eat Out, 
see a Movie. EASY, FUN JOBS! 


www.MysteryShopperJobs.com 
1-800-788-4128 Ext. MS5425 


Yahoo! Internet Life January 2002 101 


ify ° e-dating ° e-software 


e-stuff 


102 


\ 


€ ter, richer, full-screen graphics! 
* 14 ane choos from - see them reacting * 


%& Even faster eae | your own currency 
i A sing S Software of the year” 
( | oe ok Customer support, live and 24x7 


ll free 0 nd +800- -2-872-2238 International 


‘software or request your FREE CD NOW! 
Casino Manager 


Internet security, Ecash and zemning software 
‘developed by CryptoLogic inc. 


*Choose from $40, $70 or $100 match deposit. 
Offer ruins trom November 1st to December 31st 2001, 
s laa A Meee i See wivw.intercasino.com for full details. 
GLOBAL Soin "By the readers of Gambling Online Magazine 2001 


e * 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


= 
> 
a 
x 
m 
= 
a 
z 
a 
=] 
BY 
m 
im) 
-— 


Can winning be more comfortable? 


www.luckynugget.com/yahoo 


* Terms and conditions apply. Visit our website for details. 


e-stuff 


Yahoo! Internet Life >January 2002 103 


True fact: Weird spelled 
backward is driew 
BY SCOTT ALEXANDER 


THE PAGE THAT TURNS 
YOU INTO ELVIS! 


COME ON, ADMIT IT: YOU'VE ALWAYS SECRETLY 
suspected yourself of being a hunka hunka 
burnin’ love. Maybe you're already 65 per- 
cent Elvis and just need a little push over the 
edge. Maybe you're more of a Perry Como 
or Johnny Rotten but have seen the error 
of your ways. Or maybe, just maybe, you 
are Elvis and are just trying to fake every- 
one out. Come one, come all—there are no 
judgments here. [sudftw.com/presto.html] 


MONOBROW 


ARE YOU HAIRIER THAN MOST IN THE FORE- 
head department? Does a single eyebrow 
rule your forehead like a mad despot, drunk 
on the spoils of facial conquest and bent on 
terrorizing your dating life? While society 
may make you feel like an outcast, Mono- 
brow wants you to know you're not alone. 
According to its philosophy, there's never 
been a better time to “celebrate the unity 
of your eyebrows” and get in touch with 
other “mono-bros.” As Monobrow litera- 
ture puts it, “Isn't it time we met? Your eye- 
brows already have.” [monobrow.com] 


THE HAPPIEST POTTIES ON EARTH 


IN THESE TIMES OF ANXIETY AND UNCERTAINTY, IT'S NICE TO KNOW THERE'S A PLACE YOU 
can go where everything's going to come out all right. The Happiest Potties on Earth are 
found—where else?—in the Happiest Place on Earth, Disneyland. And one noble individ- 
ual has taken it upon himself to map and review all the toilets at Disneyland, so that you 
can take care of your biological necessities between the Enchanted Tiki Room and Space 


Mountain without squandering precious recreation time. [mouseplanet.com/potties] 


I 


MODEL RAILROAD 
NUDISTS 


SO YOU LIKE TOY TRAINS. AND YOU LIKE 
taking your clothes off. How can you stop 
frightening the other guys at the model rail 
club? Don't worry, the Model Railroad Nud- 
ists will encourage things that will make 
your family even more embarrassed to have 
you as a member. Welcome home. (Reg- 
ister with Yahoo! to view this site.) [clubs. 
yahoo.com/clubs/modelrailroadnudists] 


IF | WERE A CELEBRITY YOU WOULD CARE 


GARY BAUM REALLY LIKES CHEERIOS. AND IF HE WERE A CELEBRITY, YOU'D 
care. You'd also care that his greatest fear is running out of Cheerios. Also, 
this just in: What he dislikes most about his appearance is the Cheerios 
dust on the front of his shirt. His motto? “Eat Cheerios morning, noon, and 
night. Don't worry about the consequences. Live for today. Tomorrow you 
may run out.” Did we mention that you'd care about all this if he were a 
celebrity? [apeculture.com/garylist.htm] 


YAHOO! INTERNET LIFE (ISSN 1088-0070) is published monthly by Ziff Davis Media Inc., 28 East 28th Street, New York, NY 10016-7930. Periodicals postage paid at New York, 
NY 10016 and additional mailing offices. The Canadian GST registration number is 865286033. Subscription rate is $1997 for 12 issues. Additional postage for orders outside the 
U.S.: Add U.S. $16 per year for surface mail. POSTMASTER: Send address changes to Yahoo! Internet Life, P.O. Box 53380, Boulder, CO 80328-3380. Canada Post International 


Publications Mail Product (Canadian Distribution) Sales Agreement No. 40009221. Printed in the U.S.A. 


104 


Yahoo! Internet Life > January 2002 


DAILY WEIRDNESS 
FIX AT 
YIL.COM/STRANGE, 
YA FREAK 


ELVIS IMPERSONATOR: DEBORAH SCHWARTZ/GETTYONE; ERNIE AND BERT: EDWARDO PATINO/NEWSCOM; MAN: GETTYONE; TRAIN: C SQUARED STUDIOS/GETTYONE; FANS: ROBERT DALY/GETTYONE 


JANUARY 2002 


VISIT US ONLINE 
AT WWwW.YI URL 
FOR A CLICKABLE 
VERSION OF THE GUIDE 


.COM/ 


site address 


guide 


a tearc-out index of the sites in this issue 


FEATURES>> 


TOP OF THE NET 2001 pages 56-58 

@ THE INTERNET ARCHIVE: WAYBACK 
MACHINE | web.archive.org 

@ WEBARCHIVIST.ORG | webarchivist.org 

@ BLOGGER | blogger.com 

@ PITAS.COM | pitas.com 


TOP OF THE CHARTS pages 59-61 

@ YAHOO! | yahoo.com 

@ MSN! msn.com 

® AOL | aol.com 

1 MSNBC | msnbc.com 

@ CNN.COM | cnn.com 

@ WEATHER.COM | weather.com 

™@ THE NEW YORK TIMES ON THE WEB | 
nytimes.com 

@ ESPN | espn.com 

@ CBS SPORTSLINE.COM | sportsline.com 

@ CNN SPORTS ILLUSTRATED | cnnsi.com 

@ REAL | real.com 

@ NAPSTER | napster.com 

@ WINDOWSMEDIA.COM | 
windowsmedia.com 

@ MSN GAMES | zone.com 

@ EA.COM | ea.com 

™ POGO.COM | pogo.com 

@ EXPEDIA.COM | expedia.com 

@ TRAVELOCITY.COM | travelocity.com 

@ SOUTHWEST | southwest.com 

1 MONSTER.COM | monster.com 

@ JOBSONLINE | jobsonline.com 

@ HOTJOBS | hotjobs.com 

1 MSN MONEY | moneycentral.com 

@ CBS.MARKETWATCH.COM | 
cbs.marketwatch.com 

@ NEXTCARD | nextcard.com 

B® AMAZON.COM | amazon.com 

@ AMERICANGREETINGS.COM | 
americangreetings.com 

@ BIZRATE.COM | bizrate.com 

KELLEY BLUE BOOK | kbb.com 
MSN CARPOINT | carpoint.com 

@ AUTOTRADER.COM | autotrader.com 

@ REALTOR.COM | realtor.com 

@ MSN HOMEADVISOR | homeadvisor.com 

1 HOMESTORE.COM | homestore.com 

@ DRUGSTORE.COM | drugstore.com 

@ REAL | real.com 

@ ABCNEWS.COM | abcnews.com 

@ CBS NEWS | cbsnews.com 

@ FOX NEWS CHANNEL | foxnews.com 

@ AVANTGO | avantgo.com 

@ IPUBLISH.COM | ipublish.com 

1 POWELLS.COM | powells.com 

Il AUDIOGALAXY | audiogalaxy.com 

@ CNET: DOWNLOAD.COM | 
download.com 


@ ZDNET DOWNLOADS | 
zdnet.com/downloads 

@ EMUSIC | emusic.com 

@ IFILM | ifilm.com 

@ DUALITY | www.crewoftwo.com 

@ YAHOO! CHAT | chat.yahoo.com 

@ MTV.COM | mtv.com 


TALK OF THE NET pages 62-66 

@ THE WHITE HOUSE | whitehouse.gov 

1 BONSAI KITTEN | bonsaikitten.com 

@ WE LIVE IN PUBLIC | weliveinpublic.com 

@ F---ED COMPANY | f---edcompany.com 

NIKE | nike.com 

@ GOOGLE | google.com 

@ AMI THIS OR NOT? | 
iamcal.com/amillist.php 

@ THE NEW YORK TIMES ON THE WEB 
nytimes.com 

@ X10 | x10.com 

™@ PSYCHO-EX | psychoexgirlfriend.com 

@ FRECK’S NEW FEET | cutoffmyfeet.com 

1 MSNBC | msnbc.com 

@ THE OFFICIAL U.S. TIME | nist.time.gov 

@ WEATHER.COM | weather.com 

'@ NY-TAXI.COM | ny-taxi.com 

™ BLOOMINGDALE'S | bloomingdales.com 

™@ THE BWG UPDATE | vanderwoning.com 

@ NAKED NEWS | nakednews.com 


THIN IS IN pages 68-71 

@ SHARP | sharp-usa.com 

@ NEC/MITSUBISHI | necmitsubishi.com 
@ PANASONIC USA | panasonic.com 

@ SONY STYLE USA sony.com/displays 
@ PHILIPS | usa.philips.com 

® WACOM | wacom.com 

@ PLASMAVISION | plasmavision.com 
1 VIEWSONIC | viewsonic.com 


ON THE INTERNET, NOBODY 

KNOWS IF YOU'RE BOBBY 

FISCHER pages 72-77 

@ INTERNET CHESS CLUB | chessclub.com 

@ FIDE | www.fide.org 

@ ELECTRIC MINDS | www.electricminds.org 

@ CHESSBASE | chessbase.com 

@ OPEN CHESS DIARY | 
www.xsdall.nl/-timkr/chess2/diary.htm 


COLUMNS>»> 


ROGER EBERT: CRITICAL EYE page 50 
@ INTERNET MOVIE DATABASE | imdb.com 


ANGELA GUNN: NET ETHICS page 52 

@ @MAPS: MAIL ABUSE PREVENTION 
SYSTEM | mail-abuse.org 

l@ NETWORK ABUSE CLEARINGHOUSE | 
abuse.net 


DEPARTMENTS >> 


CLICK! AROUND THE NET page 28 

1 FANDANGO | fandango.com 

@ FBI! www.fbi.gov 

@ LIBRARY OF CONGRESS | www.loc.gov 

™@ SUPREME COURT | supremecourtus.gov 

@ U.S. HOUSE OF REP. | www.house.gov 

@ EPA | epa.gov 

@ SOCIAL SECURITY | www.ssa.gov 

NAVY | www.navy.mil 

@ OSHA | osha.gov 

@ NATIONAL PARK SERVICE | www.nps.gov 

@ AIR FORCE LINK | www.af.mil 

@ KEYNOTE | keynote.com 

@ ALICIA KEYS | aliciakeys.net 

™@ PALMGEAR.COM | palmgear.com 

@ HAYDEN PALACE | 
clubs.yahoo.com/clubs/haydenpalace 


CLICK! HOME & OFFICE page 32 

AMAZON.COM | amazon.com 

@ HALF.COM | half.com 

™ SWITCHOUSE | switchouse.com 

@ YAHOO! WAREHOUSE | 
warehouse.yahoo.com 

@ CLIP GENIUS | clipgenius.com 

@ RE-ROUTE | re-route.com 


CLICK! INCREDIBLY USEFUL 

SITES pages 34-35 

@ CANCELLATIONS.COM | 
cancellations.com 

@ WETIP | wetip.com 

@ JOBSONTHEWEB.COM: TIPS | 
jobsontheweb.com/tips.htm 

l@ LEARNING NETWORK: DAY IN HISTORY | 
infoplease.com/cgi-bin/dayinhistory 

™@ REPLACEMENTS, LTD. | 
replacements.com 

@ SCUMWARE.COM | scumware.com 

@ ONLINENEWSPAPERS.COM | 
onlinenewspapers.com 

f@ TRYSCIENCE | tryscience.org 

™@ RHYMEZONE | rhymezone.com 

@ ERIDESHARE | erideshare.com 

lm SEESTORM MESSENGER | 
www.seestorm.com 

™ REALONE PLAYER | real.com 

@ CAPTUREWIZPRO | pixelmetrics.com 


CLICK! OLD WAY/NET WAY 

pages 38-39 

ALA | wwwala.org 

lm BOOKPRICECOMPARE.COM | 
bookpricecompare.com 

lm THE NEW YEAR PAGES: NEW YEAR 
RESOLUTIONS | www.new-year.co.uk/ 
resolutions/resframe.html 


IF A SITE WON'T LOAD, TRY TYPING WWW 


BEFORE THE URL. 


@ HAPPY NEW YEAR! | 
theholidayspot.com/newyear 

1 HOW-TO-KEEP-YOUR-NEW-YEARS- 
RESOLUTION.COM | how-to-keep-your- 
new-years-resolution.com/html/success.html 

@ EHEALTHINSURANCE.COM | 
ehealthinsurance.com 

@ CONSUMERREPORTS.ORG | 
consumerreports.org 


STYLE: ASK WARREN page 40 

™@ MODERN CLOTHES FOR THE MODERN 
MAN | modernman.com/clothes 

f@ HARRY ROSEN | www.harryrosen.com 

@ IMPROMPTU GOURMET | 
impromptugourmet.com 

@ SAKS FIFTH AVENUE | saks.com 

1 MACYS.COM | macys.com 

™@ BROOKS BROS. | brooksbrothers.com 


STYLE: BAZAAR page 41 

@ COLE HAAN | colehaan.com 

@ WOLVERINE | 
wolverinebootsandshoes.com 

@ TIMBERLAND | timberland.com 

@ PAUL STUART | paulstuart.com 

B WOOLRICH | woolrich.com 

@ THE NORTH FACE | thenorthface.com 

@ ROCKPORT | rockport.com 

™@ EDDIE BAUER | eddiebauer.com 

@ JOHNSTON & MURPHY | 
johnstonandmurphy.com 


COOL TOOLS pages 44-45 

@ THINK | thinkmobility.com 

@ OYLMPUS | olympusamerica.com 

@ PC-EPHONE | pc-ephone.com 

@ CMCIA | www.cmcia.com/eng/ 
index-eng.html 

@ MICROSOFT | microsoft.com 

1 BOSE | bose.com 


PRETTY STRANGE page 104 

@ THE PAGE THAT TURNS YOU INTO 
ELVIS! | sudftw.com/presto.htm 

1 MONOBROW | monobrow.com 

l™@ MODEL RAILROAD NUDISTS | clubs. 
yahoo.com/clubs/modelrailroadnudists 

@ THE HAPPIEST POTTIES ON EARTH | 
mouseplanet.com/potties 

@ IF | WERE A CELEBRITY YOU WOULD 
CARE | apeculture.com/garylist.htm 


WEB GUIDE>> 


ENTERTAINMENT & SPORTS 

pages 80-82 

l@ SHOCKWAVE.COM | shockwave.com 

@ ATOMFILMS | www.atomfilms.com 

ll SCREENBLAST | screenblast.com 

Ml INTERNET MOVIE DATABASE | imdb.com 

@ FILMWISE | filmwise.com 

ll MRQE: MOVIE REVIEW QUERY 
ENGINE | www.mrge.com 

1M CHECKTHEGRID | checkthegrid.com 

NETFLIX | netflix.com 

lm SONICNET.COM | sonicnet.com 

@ ALL MUSIC GUIDE | allmusicquide.com 

@ AUDIOGALAXY | audiogalaxy.com 

@ FESTIVALFINDER | festivalfinder.com 

@ REAL | real.com 

l@ MSN: ESPN | espn.com 

™ CBS SPORTSLINE.COM | 
sportsline.com 


@ SANDBOX | sandbox.com 

@ POGO.COM | pogo.com 

@ YAHOO! GAMES | games.yahoo.com 

1 GAMESPOT | gamespot.com 

@ E! ONLINE | eonline.com 

@ EW.COM | ew.com 

@ CULTUREFINDER.COM | culturefinder.com 


COMPUTING & THE NET pages 83-85 

@ YAHOO! | yahoo.com 

GOOGLE | google.com 

BB VIVISIMO | vivisimo.com 

@ CNET | cnet.com 

@ ZDNET | zdnet.com 

1 SLASHDOT | slashdot.org 

@ AOL HOMETOWN | hometown.aol.com 

HOMESTEAD | homestead.com 

B OFOTO | ofoto.com 

@ SPOTLIFE | spotlife.com 

BB GOTOMYPC | gotomypc.com 

Bl EXPERTLIVE | expertcity.com/expertlive 

YAHOO! MAIL | mail.yahoo.com 

1 AOL INSTANT MESSENGER | aol.com/aim 

1 YAHOO! MESSENGER | 
messengeryahoo.com 

YAHOO! CHAT | chatyahoo.com 

1B CNET: DOWNLOAD.COM | download.com 

ll HANDANGO | handango.com 

1 PALMGEAR.COM | palmgear.com 

B® VINDIGO | vindigo.com 


LIFESTYLE & COMMUNITY 
pages 85-87 

@ ELUXURY | eluxury.com 

| MARTHA STEWART | marthastewart.com 
1 BHG.COM | bhg.com 
EPICURIOUS | epicurious.com 
FOOD NETWORK | foodtv.com 
ROOTSWEB.COM | rootsweb.com 
™ DADMAG.COM | dadmag.com 
1 CLUBMOM | clubmom.com 

Ml NERVE.COM | nerve.com 
BELIEFNET | beliefnet.com 
IVILLAGE | ivillage.com 

Bl GAY.COM | gay.com 

1 PRIDEPAGE | pridepage.com 
i BET.COM | bet.com 

@ NETNOIR | netnoir.com 

B® EL SITIO | elsitio.com 

i CLICK2ASIA | click2asia.com 
i WEMEDIA | wemedia.com 

@ HELPING.ORG | helping.org 


HEALTH & FITNESS pages 88-89 

™ MEDSCAPE HEALTH FOR 
CONSUMERS | medscapehealth.com 

@ WEBMD | webmd.com 

@ CANCERNET | cancernet.gov 

@ AMERICANHEART.ORG | 
americanheart.org 

@ INTERNET MENTAL HEALTH | 
mentalhealth.com 

@ NCCAM | nccam.nih.gov 

1 ASIMBA | asimba.com 


LEARNING & CREATIVITY pages 89-90 

1 BRITANNICA.COM | britannica.com 

fl YOURDICTIONARY.COM | 
yourdictionary.com 

@ REFDESK.COM | refdesk.com 

@ BJ PINCHBECK'S HOMEWORK HELPER | 
school.discovery.com/homeworkhelp/ 
bjpinchbeck 


@ LEARN? | learn2.com 

@ ALTAVISTA: TRANSLATE | 
babel.altavista.com 

@ BARTLEBY.COM | bartleby.com 

@ MARSHALL BRAIN'S 
HOWSTUFFWORKS | howstuffworks.com 

®@ SCHOOL OF VISUAL ARTS | 
www.sva.edu/mfacad 

| GUGGENHEIM.COM | guggenheim.com 

| NATIONALGEOGRAPHIC.COM | 
nationalgeographic.com 

® PBS | pbs.org 


TRAVEL & RECREATION pages 93-94 

@ EXPEDIA.COM | expedia.com 

@ ORBITZ | orbitz.com 

@ PRICELINE.COM | priceline.com 

@ IEXPLORE | iexplore.com 

@ CITYSEARCH | citysearch.com 

1 TIMEOUT.COM | timeout.com 

@ IGOUGO | igougo.com 

@ GOLFONLINE: COURSES/TRAVEL | 
golfonline.com/travel 


MONEY & SHOPPING pages 94-96 

1 SMARTMONEY.COM | smartmoney.com 

I MSN: MONEY | moneycentral.com 

l@ TAXPLANET.COM | taxplanet.com 

l@ CHARLESSCHWAB | charlesschwab.com 

CITI citiccom 

FINANCIAL ENGINES | financialengines.com 

@ MONSTER.COM | monster.com 

| GETSMART | getsmart.com 

@ CARSDIRECT.COM | carsdirect.com 

1 INSWEB | insweb.com 

MSN: HOMEADVISOR | homeadvisor.com 

AMAZON.COM | amazon.com 

WAL-MART | walmart.com 

ll YAHOO! SHOPPING | shopping.yahoo.com 

EBAY | ebay.com 

PAYPAL | paypal.com 

BW PRICEGRABBER.COM | pricegrabber.com 

§ TECHBARGAINS.COM | techbargains.com 

lm EPINIONS.COM | www.epinions.com 

@ CONSUMERREVIEW.COM | 
consumerreview.com 


NEWS & MEDIA pages 97-98 

® BBCI | bbc.co.uk 

@ CNN.COM | cnn.com 

@ MSNBC | msnbc.com 

1 WASHINGTONPOST.COM | 
washingtonpost.com 

ll THE NEW YORK TIMES 
ON THE WEB | 
nytimes.com 

i@ WSJ.COM: THE WALL STREET 
JOURNAL | wsj.com 

USA TODAY | usatoday.com 

SLATE | slate.com 

@ SALON.COM | salon.com 

@ OJR: ONLINE JOURNALISM REVIEW | 
ojr.org 

@ THE SMOKING GUN | 
thesmokinggun.com 

lM KOTTKE.ORG | kottke.org 

@ THE ONION | theonion.com 

lm MODERN HUMORIST | 
modernhumorist.com 

I ALTERNET.ORG | alternet.org 

ARTS & LETTERS DAILY | aldaily.com 

j@ JIM ROMENESKO'S MEDIANEWS | 
medianews.org 


— 


— 
Rl 
Mavica | i 

= L 


MP3. DVD. DIGITAL CAMERAS. ALL THE 
COOLEST STUFF FOR UNDER THE TREE. FOR ALL 


We're with you: 
THE PEOPLE ON YOUR LIST. ALL IN ONE PLACE. . 


THE NISSAN SENTRA. EVERYBODY WANTS TO DRIVE IT. Over 50 standard safety features. 


Remarkably powerful and fun to drive. Unfortunately, just one steering wheel. The Nissan Sentra. The last thing it performs like is a 


compact. Call 800-543-9404 or visit NissanDriven.com. THE NISSAN SENTRA. AN EXCEPTIONAL COMPACT SEDAN. DRIVEN. 


GXE model shown with Road Hugging Package. Nissan, the Nissan Logo, DRIVEN and Nissan Model Names are Nissan trademarks. ©2001 Nissan North America, Inc. 


