..and how to 
avoid them | 


Done! rin ia the back of vehaclé, Atways wear seat tet. Nessanite f Keno be: DRIVEN an see Moco: UE genie alr ns ert, be Fees tighiihe Passd 


¥ 2 : : a 


FG S 5 a aR : 
ed V6, We fully expect you to create some ingenious applications of yourown. (Notallinvalving pain and'swelling, we 


) Gall 1-877-XTERRA8 or visit NissanDriven.com formers info. rything yor meed, nothing yo! don't. 


DRIVEN. 


iTunes 


Upsating Sonat on od” 
S_Coppna's af G41 “"Bowiat in the Wind 
aS 


1,000 songs in your Mac. 


Apple’s award-winning iTunes” software makes it easy to put your entire music collection right on your Mac! You can rip MP3s, 
create playlists and burn custom CDs’ all from one refreshingly simple interface. And now iTunes 2 offers even more features — 
like MP3 CD burning, crossfading and an equalizer. ‘Tunes makes it simple and fun to build your very own digital music library 
on your Mac. Now, imagine having all of that incredible music with you wherever you go —even when youre away from your Mac. 


Don't steal music. *kequires cb-RW drive. 


based ont $n, per song/lOOKps, S Bator life varies res Mac with Fired re andl Mac OS 9.2 (or later) or Mac OSX 110.1 


ee super-fast FireWire Ulo-Updating is 
, c e 


When you first plug iPod into 
your Mac, all of your iTunes 
songs and playlists are 
automatically downloaded into 
iPod at blazing FireWire speed. 
Then, when you add new 

music or rearrange playlists in 
iTunes, simply plug iPod back 
inand it’s automatically updated 
in seconds, It simply doesn't 


get any easier or faster than this. 


Think different. 


‘Settings 
About 
Now Playing 
Access fo 1,000 songs is 

under your thumb. Find 
your music by playlist, 

artist or song in seconds with 
iPod's unique and incredibly 


easy-to-use scroll wheel. 


Actual size. 


1,000 songs in your pocket. 


Presenting iPod. The first MP3 player to pack a mind-blowing 1,000 songs’ and a 10-hour battery’ into a stunning 65-ounce 


package you can literally take everywhere. But iPod! isn't just a revolution in portability, its also a revolution in simplicity. Just 


plug it into your Mac and all of your iTunes songs and playlists are automatically downloaded into iPod at blazing FireWire’ speed. 


With iPod, it’s that easy to take your entire music collection with you wherever you go, in the pocket of your choice. For just $399. 


ys 5 


the Russel family’s greatest hits. now on CD. a» ¢ 


¢ ay Mg d i e4 2 


ran 
; ‘ eit 


eo Save memories forever. Burn all your photography to CD then create interactive photo albums and slide 
es shows, complete with music with Easy CD Creator® 5 Platinum, from Roxio.The best selling CD burning 


Easy CD 
Creator 


PLATING KS 


= = software in the world. You can even finish them off with personalized jewel cases for each disc. To learn more 
— ay about burning vinyl, MP3s, digital photos and more, hit roxio.com. Mac users check out Roxio’s Toast” 5. 
Se Now Windows” XP compatible. 
| z 3 
° a s 5 
2 2 2 8 
5 2 z e 
Bs z 3 pene 
z 8 e ¢: & 
5 3 a & 5 


|| mes 


© 2001 Roxio, Inc. All rights reserved. Roxio, the Roxio logo and the Burning CD logo are trademarks of Roxio, Inc., which may be registered in some jurisdictions. Toast and Easy CD Creator are registered trademarks of Roxio, inc. in the Unit 
Our software is designed to assist you in reproducing material in which you own the copyright or have the lega right to copy trom the copyright owner, 


Lountries. All other trademarks used are owned by their respective owners. 


be registered in some o 
'e other jurisdictiolows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or oth 


6 


EDITOR’S NOTE 


SOMETHING THAT SHOULD REASSURE YOU ABOUT THIS 
magazine's editors and contributors is that though we're In- 
ternet enthusiasts, we have other lives. Honest—we don’t 
spend every waking moment online. (Well, most of us 
don’t; I confess I have to shake our Y-Lifé tree every once in 
awhile to make sure the occasional someone can unplug 
and still walk upright.) The most obvious example of an 
“other lifer” on our roster is ROGER EBERT, who does a 
bit of movie reviewing when he's 
not writing his column for us. 

Another one is Privacy Watch 
columnist ROBERT SCHEER, who 
also writes a syndicated political 
column for the Los Angeles Times. I 
mention him this month because 
his most recent “offline” work in- 
volved being among the very first 
reporters to expose the connections 
between the Enron bankruptcy and 
the Bush administration. 

Okay, maybe it’s not so offline 
after all. When a media reporter 
for The Washington Post inquired 
of Scheer, “How did you get onto 
it so early?” Scheer replied, “Google.” 

His answer not only proves one of our favorite points 
about the mainstreaming of Internet life, but also suggests 
the way one profession has been transformed, relatively un- 
heralded, outside the torrent of dot-com debris rushing by. 
We read about online journalism—whether it’s better than 
the offline kind, which news sites are best, which are failing— 
but we don’t as often hear how the Net has changed the way 
traditional beat reporters and researchers gather information. 
“Before, it would have taken me six months to track 
down this story,” 


ays Scheer. “Just the travel alone, the vis- 
its to a dozen news archives in different cities —you'd have 
to lug dusty tomes and beg for permission to photocopy 


something. Now, once you've written something, there are 


the online tips from regular people that help you advance 
the story. Who knows where they come by the informa- 


Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


A Reporting Revolution 


We read about 
online journalism, 
but we don't 
as often hear 
how the Net has 
changed the way 
traditional reporters 
and researchers 
gather information 


tion, buta fast search gets you corroborationto 
something. Everything's on the record ncere.” 
Of course, that’s exactly what Scheer warn his 
privacy column every month. Life's pecul: 

On the other hand, contributing writesHER 
KAISER didn’t have to look too far beyond h-box 
this month to compile our list of the 20 nacams. 
However, her search for how to avoid thenarther 

afield. Read, back. 
MICHAEL LEARists an 
equally skepticame of 
the new musicites in 
“Time to Face:.” His 
conclusion, anne new 
commercial offe some 
nice bells and ut un- 
til there’s a jukece with 
universal mus)n, rea 
sonable fees (hé10 sub- 
scriptions to pd ists will 
you sign up foshe good 
sense to throyippling 
copy protectiorusic” will 
play on. The facere's also 
a growing armada of users now swapping fily V shows 
on many of these very services, right belir music- 
sharing brethren, should be a shot across tbf the en- 
tertainment industry: Get your acts togethntinue to 
do battle with the people who are among igest fans. 

On a stylish note, check out our fas\ction this 
month, shot by the very hot photographer § NYVANG. 
T think we have a unique approach to fashzads in this 
magazine, blending style, wit, and a Net hoean, where 
else do you find a fashion shoot subtitlemk Heaven 
for Literal URLs"? Nowhere, that’s whe1 


X Beng on 


BARRY GO ER IN CHIEF 


Recording video isn’t just a point and shoot proposition. You've got to make sure there’s enough battery power. And enough light, 
You've got to hold the camera steady. Or, you've got to get a Sony. Only Sony Handycam® camcorders have Worry-Free Recording™ — a 
virtual safety net of features that ensures the best possible video, in virtually any situation. For instance, our Infolithium” rechargeable 
battery with AccuPower™ meter lets you know exactly how much recording time you have left. And it's on every Hi8™, Digital8”, and 
MiniDV Handycam camcorder. Because every moment is too important to miss. www.sony.com/di 


T Sony Electronics Inc. Allrights reserved. Reproductions in whale or part without written perihissian is prohibited. Sony, 
‘the Sony logo, Digital8, Hi6, Dream Gn, Handycam, Worty-Free Recording, InfoLithium, and AccuPower are trademarks of Sony, 


SO YOUR 


WON'T BE. 
NIVEA FOR MEN 
EXFOLIATING SCRUB 


GET OUT GRIME with thousands of grits 
PURIFY beneath the surface 
EXFOLIATE for smoother skin 


One more way NIVEA FOR MEN helps 
IMPROVE THE CONDITION OF YOUR SKIN 


WWWW.niveausa.com 


MORE EVOLVED SKINCARE 


56 


| in sports? And what does that mean for hoops lov 


| What's his si 


CONTENTS 


WIRED HOOPS 


How has basketball managed to become the most wired game 


An 


obsessive-compulsive guide to b-ball By TY WENGER 


DIGITAL DAVE'S GOT GAME 
The NBA commissioner has outdone the competition. 
>t? David Stern spe: 


IF WEB ADDRESSES CAME TO LIFE 
Or, thank heaven for literal URLs~~a spring fashion special 


HOTOGRAPHED BY STEFAN NYVAK 


TESTING THE MUSIC SITES 

Digital music services are up and running—but are they worth 
your time We rate the new pay-to-play sites. PLUS: 
Free music still thrives 8Y MICHAEL LEARMONTH | 


20 NET SCAMS 

Get rich quick. Miracle cures. Free vacations. Don't fall for 

the latest scheme that lands in your e-mail in-box. Already a 
victim? We show you what to do now BY LAURA FISHER KAIS | 


THE QUEST FOR THE HOLY GRAIL | 
If you're tired of juggling all those gadgets in your pocket, 

you'll be glad to see these all-in-one devices. A roundup 

of the latest sanity-savers 8Y ERIC , 


ROGER EBERT > CRITICAL EYE In Cyberspace, Writing Is a Performance 


When the personal monitor begins to feel like a public space 


ANGELA GUNN > NET ETHICS How to Get Hit On But Not Kissed 


Sexual no-no’s online PLUS: how to deal with a secret cyber-smooch 


ROBERT SCHEER > PRIVACY WATCH Iallelujah! Microsoft Sees the | 


Light Bill Gates endorses “trustworthy computing” 


> Palm of your hand 


Dell | Home Desktops 


Dimension” 4400 Desktop 


Dimension 4400 Desktop 


Dimension 8200 Desktop 


Superior Performance, Smart Value 

* Intel Pentium 4 Processor at 1.60GHz 

© 128MB DDR SDRAM at 266MHz 

© 40GB? Ultra ATA/100 Hard Drive (7200 RPM) 
© 17° (15.9" , 27dp) E771 Monitor 

© 16MB ATI° RAGE” Ultra Graphics Card 

© 48X Max CD-ROM Drive 

© Integrated Audio 

© Harman Kardon® HK-195 Speakers 

© 56K" PCI Data Fax Modem for Windows® 


Superior Performance, Smart Value 

® Intel Pentium 4 Processor at 1.70GHz 

© 128MB DDR SDRAM at 266MHz 

© 40GB" Ultra ATA/100 Hard Drive (7200 RPM) 

© 17° (15.9" vi.s., .27dp) E771 Monitor 

© 16MB ATI RAGE Ultra Graphics Card 

© 24X/10X/40X CD-RW Drive with Roxio'’s Easy CD Creator 
© SB Live! 1024V Digital Sound Card 

© Harman Kardon HK-395 Speakers with Subwoofer 

© S6K* PCI Telephony Modem for Windows 


or as low as $27/mo. for 45 mos! 
899 No payments for 90 days 
for qualified customers. 


E-VALUE Code: 00946-500208a 


or as low as $33/mo. for 45 mos'? 
No payments for 90 days 
for qualified customers. 


E-VALUE Code: 00946-500210 


Recommended upgrades: 

 256MB DDR SDRAM, add $70 

© 17° (16.0 v.i,s., .25dp) P792 FD Trinitron® Monitor, add $140 

© 16X/10X/40X CD-RW Drive with Roxio’s Easy CD Creator* add $60 
© Harman Kardon HK-395 Speakers with Subwoofer, add $30 


Dell | Standard Features 


Recommended upgrades: 
© 256MB DDR SDRAM, add $70 
© 19° (18.0° vis., .26dp) M991 Monitor, add $140 
¢ Harman Kardon HK-695 Surround Sound Speakers 
with Subwoofer, add $30 
© 64MB NVIDIA GeForce2 MX Graphics Card with TV-Out, add $40 


Dell | Solutions 


Cutting Edge Technology 

© Intel Pentium 4 Processor at 1.80GHz 

© 256MB RORAM 

© 40GB" Ultra ATA/100 Hard Drive (7200 RPM) 

© 17° (159° vi.s., .27dp) E771 Monitor 

* 64MB NVIDIA GeForce2 MX Graphics Card with TV-Out 

© 16X Max DVD-ROM Drive 

‘© 16X/10X/40X CD-RW Drive with Roxio's Easy CD Creator (2 
bay) 

© SB Live! 1024V Digital Sound Card 

© Harman Kardon HK-695 Surround Sound Speakers with Subwoofer 

© 56K" PCI Telephony Modem for Windows 


or as low as $45/mo. for 45 mos!” 
14 No payments for 90 days 
for qualified customers. 


E-VALUE Code: 00946-500214 


Recommended upgrades: 

© 15° (15.0" v.i.s.) 1503FP Digital Flat Panel Display, add $310 

© Turtle Beach® Santa Cruz” DSP Sound Card, add $40 

‘© 24X/10X/40X CD-RW Drive with Roxio's Easy CD Creator 
(2 bay), add $20 

© BOGB* Ultra ATA/100 Hard Drive (7200 RPM), add $70 


Each DELL system shown here has a number of 
standard features, including: 


© MS* Windows XP Home Edition 
© MS Works Suite 2002 
© 6 Months of America Online* Membership Included” 
© Dimension Desktops shown here include 
1-Yr Limited Warranty} 1-Yr At-Home Service} 
1-Yr 24x7 Phone Support 
* Inspiron Notebooks shown here include 
1-Yr Limited Warranty? 1-Yr Mail-In Service, 
1-Yr 24x7 Phone Support 


Software and Accessories 


Service and Support 


Printers and All-In-One Print Centers: 

Epson® Stylus C80 Color Printer, $149 after $30 Epson 
Mail-In Rebate (reg. $179)" 

* Lexmark” 253 Color Printer, $129 

Lexmark X83 All-In-One Print Center that Scans, Prints and 
Copies, $199 

* HP Office Jet K80, $299 

Scanners: 

© HP ScanJet 4400Cse Scanner, $99 

'* Epson 1250U Scanner, $169 


Digital Cameras: 

‘© HP Photosmart C318 Digital Camera, $149 after $50 HP 
Mail-In Rebate (reg. $199)" 

* Kodak® DX3600 Digital Camera, $299 


How about some peace of mind to accompany your new 
Dell system? 


Dimension Desktop Service Upgrades: 
© Upgrade Dimension Desktops with 1-Yr Ltd Warranty? 
1-Yr At-Home Service! 1-Yr 24x7 Phone Support to: 
3-Yr Ltd Warranty? 3-Yr At-Home Service! and 
Lifetime 24x7 Phone Support, add $139 (4400 and 8200) 


Inspiron Notebook Service Upgrades: 
© Upgrade Inspiron Notebooks with 1-Yr Ltd Warranty? 
1-Yr Mail-In Service, 1-Yr 24x7 Phone Support to: 
3-Yr Ltd Warranty? 3-Yr Next-Business-Day 
On-Site Service! Lifetime 24x7 Phone Support, add $299 


Everything you'd ever want in a PC starts right here. Whether you're looking for high-performance multimedia to take on the 


road, or a versatile desktop that's perfect for home, Dell can custom-build a solution that is just right for you. And by making PCs to 


order and shipping direct instead of using a middleman retailer, Dell is able to give you the very latest technology at a low price, all 


backed by an award-winning service and support team thatknows your PC like it's their own. So go online or call today, and discover a 


better way of finding, buying, and owning the perfect computer. A better way that's easy. 


Easy to buy. Easy to own. Easy as D@LL 


Order the easy way. Visit www.dell4me.com or call toll free 1-800-433-8093. 


Keep your E-VALUE CODE 
handy! it's the easiest way to 
find and build your perfect PC — 
at the lowest price ~ when you 
decide to order. 


Go online or call for 


| | Home 


Tam a lniaan i how. |' it all on th 
Inspiron™ 8100 Notebook Welcome to the ultimate road show. I'll lay it all on the 


The Ultimate Multimedia Notebook line right now: I'm the most complete multimedia package 

© Mobile Intel® Pentium® Ill Pro or at 1,13GHz-M featuring 
Intel SpeedStep” Technology 

© 15° Ultra XGA+ TFT Display 

+ 384MB SDRAM at 133MHz (512MB Max) 

¢ 30GB" Ultra ATA Hard Drive 


ever offered in a notebook. | am the Dell Inspiron 8100, and 


I'm a wonder of portable technology. From graphics capability 


* Fixed Internal 8X Max DVD-ROM Drive to storage capacity, I'm top of the line. And since I'm customizable to suit your 
© 64MB DOR 4X AGP ATI® MOBILITY” RADEON” 7500 Video 

* Sound Blaster® Compatible Sound with Wavetable needs, I'll always be perfect for exactly what you want me to do. So go online 
© 59WHf Li-lon Battery with ExpressCharge” Technology 

* Internal V,90/56K' Modem and 10/100 Fast Ethernet Mini-PCl Combo of call today, and find out how easy it is to take desktop performance anywhere. 


© MS® Windows® XP Home Edition, MS Works Suite 
© 6 Months of America Online* Membership Included’ 
© 1-Yr Limited Warranty} 1-Yr Mail-In Service, 1-Yr 24x7 Phone Support 


fy Fy =H Ky Ask us about no payments for 
) © 90 days for qualified customers 
aGe FD E-VALvE Code: 00944-800222n 


Recommended upgrade: 
© 3-Yr Limited Warranty! 3-Yr Next Business Day On-Site Service; 
Lifetime 24x7 Phone Support, add $299 


Dell PCs use genuine Microsoft® Windows® 
www.microsoft.com/piracy/howtotell 


bers only, Must register for AOL within 
ir phone co, for details) and 
‘ount only, Limited time offe 


and OOO a 


ice! during the 6- p ni 
in AK. Avaitabilltyn 18+ US. 


for pramium servi 


bill 


fis 
Splish splash 


DEPARTMENTS 


6 | EDITOR'S NOTE > Outsmarting the Net scammers—and how one 
| reporter smartly Googled his way to the Enron scandal | 
20 | MESSAGE CENTER > LETTERS TO THE EDITOR We're listening | 
£ se ee ae 
| 25 CLICK! Detailing a photographer's deadly story, finding the best Palm soft- 
| ware, sprucing up your home office, getting deals on printer cartridges 
| 
i = it r. es Sx orks. aos Bike 
32 INCREDIBLY USEFUL SITES Find the video you're dying to watch, price 
| your old stuff, “cheat” on crosswords, track your favorite band 
| 
—_ - = ws - wis =| 
34 || OLD WAY/NET WAY Comparison shopping for spiffy new computer 
speakers, saving sick old trees, using frequent-flier mileage 
| 
—- = ae I 
amt 
| 38 || STYLE Open your eyes to must-have toiletries, find quality face time | 
= = 
40 CONTENT Thrashers hit the ice with Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3, Spirit 
| Creek is ready for real time, e-books get shut out of awards 
| ” af x if . “ | 
43 | COOL TOOLS A digital guard dog, a PDA watch, the wonders of the iPod, 
the latest incarnation of ReplayTV | 
| WEB USER Untangle with wireless networking, add some spice to your | 
48 Te mae % Lana | 
| e-mailing life, time-delay your messages in Outlook, advance your Googling 
[ a ar ~~ | 
| 108 PRETTY STRANGE Take some advice from Mr. T, get into Alison’s pants, 
help stamp out the badger problem, bet on what that cow’s going to doo 


WEB GUIDE > NEW, NOTABLE & FUN REVIEWS Entertainment news and | 


87 | gossip, dead rock stars, ticket brokers, travel discounts, winery tours, 

~~ | romantic getaways, snow sports, deals on mortgages, bargain-hunting 

——), WEB LAB > BEST HOME-BUYING SITES They say you can’t go home 

98 || again, but you can find a new one online. Also, best apartment rental, 


| home improvement, and relocation sites BY 


14 Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


EVERY CAR MAKES A STATEMENT. 
WHY REPEAT WHAT’S ALREADY BEEN SAID? 


THE NEW MATRIX 


/ IT’S SOMETHING ELSE 


It’s a mystery, wrapped inside an enigma, 
infused with horsepower, stuffed with cargo space. 


Seats five, carries 53 cubic feet of cargo, and is 
available with 180 hp and a 6-speed manual shift. 
You don’t fit any known category. Why should your car? 


©2001 Toyata Motor Sales, USA. Inc. Buckle Up! Do it for those who lave you. 


GET THE FEELING. TOYOTA. 
®toyota.com 


Yahoo! Internet Life Omline 


Incredibly Newsful 


| S AREADER OF YAHOO! INTERNET LIFE, 
you look to the Web for usability, ad- 


incredibly uselel sites™ 
Is today a snow day? Check 
the Web 


2: 


vice, entertainment, and no small amount 


of weirdness. And we aim to give it to you. Maybe 


you picked us up in an airport, or maybe you're 


| alongtime subscriber—either way, you're not get- 


Y-Life Daily: Your 
Guide to Using the 
Internet 


Y-Life's Weekly 
Deals, Tips, and 
Tricks 


Enter your e-mail: 


Submit & 
See all newsletters A 


—™ Lord of the Rings C= le = 


Best Sites Contest :: Viggo Mortensen Interview Lond 


What Does a Hobbit Look Like? 
ASK THE SURF GURU > Got any 


best sites 


COMPUTING & THE NET 


ting the most bang for your Y-Life buck unless 


you're also getting our free e-mail newsletters. | 
| The Y-Life 
youa quick summary of YiL.com’s seven dail 


ENTERTAINMENT & SPORTS 


Daily, delivered five days a week, gives 


UFESTYLE & COMMUNITY HEALTH & FITNESS 


LEARNING & CREATIVITY TRAVEL & RECREATION 


tures (see below) as well as anything else we have 


MONEY & SHOPPING NEWS & MEDIA 


going on. If you're more the no-nonsense type, | 


the Y-Life Weekly is for you: It’s got useful sites, 


| recent feature 


freebies, and Surf Guru questions, without any 


funny stuff. Sound good? You'll find asign-up box | 


in the upper right corner on every page at YIL.com. 


DAILY NET BUZZ > Every morning, 


@ PRETTY STRANGE SITE 
“=| OF THE DAY > Cat albums. Am I 
mbles the ultimate briefing for your day _ All Your Base or Not? God Hates font of Web wisdom. lyil.com/gurul 


Steve Knopper scours the Web, then uestions? Take them to our resident 


online, Whether it’s the latest on an over: Barbers. Poke the Bunny. Your Mama. 

seas crisis or vicious infighting ina Tolkien You want it weird? We make it your way, FREEBIES, BARGAINS & CONTESTS 
newsgroup, Steve will point you to what- every day. lyil.com/strangel a > One day it’s free shampoo, a deal 
ever’s most relevant today, [yil.com/buzz] on sports bras, and a chance to win a surf- 


NET RADIO STATION ard, Great, unless you're a bald guy who 
OF THE DAY> C 


Bone-crunching death metal. The 


FORWARD/JOKE OF THE DAY > 


Supermodel wisdom. Twisted 


ic rock. Cool can’t swim. Visit daily, lyil.com/freebies] 


le 


Seuss. The evil Bill Gates. Dog dog- 


i 


INCREDIBLY USEFUL SITE 


s in French. Police bulletins. Barn 


gerel. The Darwin Awards, Cat poetry, yard noises. Hockey call-in shows. If it’s OF THE DAY > The life-improving 
Office torture ideas, Bagpipe humor. audible, someone's reteily Webcasting you love. Learn about wine, ace chem- 
Need we say more? lyil.com/forward] it. Find out here. [yil.com/radiol istry, plana trip, and more. lyil.com/usefull 


Epes etal Ge Ricme sie \-) Le eeerewee 


In conjunction with our December coverage of The Lord of the [mckellen.com/cinema/lotr] 
Rings, Y\L.com staged the modestly titled "Great Lord of the BEST TOLKIEN-INSPIRED CREATIVITY: 
Rings on the Net Contest,” an Oscars-style award fest The Tolkien Trail [tolkientrail.com] 
celebrating 25 sites in six categories. Thousands of surfers BEST TOLKIEN COMMUNITY SITE: 
showed up to vote for their favorites. The winners: Elendor [elendor.net] 
BEST SITE FOR SERIOUS TOLKIEN FANS: 
BEST TOLKIEN MEGASITE: TheOneRing.net Lord of the Rings Fanatics Site [lordotrings.com] 
BEST SITE FOR BEGINNERS: The Encyclopedia of Arda 
[glyphweb.com/ardal Congratulations to all! For the complete list of nominees and | 


BEST SPECIALIZED SITE: lan McKellen: Lord of the Rings our review of each site, visit yil.com/lotrcontest. 


16 Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 | 


“Music is a tried and true way 
to add drama and impact to your 
videos. As you can see here.” 


MORE VIDEO TIPS FROM SCOTT & ERIC™ 


Before music. After music. 

¢ } e om " 
| | f 

I 8 

| 

| ; 
DUN-dun-DUN-dun-DUN-dun... What would the shark footage in Jaws titles, and transitions. Then burn ‘em to CD or DVD with Pinnacle 
be without that, huh? Or what if they'd used “It’s A Small World” for Express™ Now, along with preserving memories, you're creating 
the shower scene in Psycho? tightly edited cinematic works of art. It's fast, It's a blast. And it's 

Clearly, music can make a world of difference—especially in your made possible by Pinnacle Systems, the folks who've won 8 Emmys 

home videos. And Pinnacle Studio™ version 7 makes it amazingly easy for Technical Achievement, So, whether it’s “Home On The Range” 
to jazz up your videos with music—your own or choose from a built-in or an old Def Leppard tune, adding music is just one of the ways 


library of songs and sounds—along with hundreds of special effects, Pinnacle can bring your videos to life. 


Get a $25 manufacturer’s rebate* 


BIN Buy Pinnacle Studio version 7 and Pinnacle Express 
DVD/CD authoring software and we'll send you 
accheck for $25, (Sorry, the free Porsche was a 

no go. — Scott & Eric) For details and more tips, 


visit www.pinnaclesys.com/music. 


Available at: ear] a] COMPUSA. Figz MIG. GENER 


fill out our Pinnacle Express/Studio coupon available at www.pinnaclesys.com/music. Return completed 
‘oupon to receive your $25.00 rebate check. Rebate request must be postmarked no later than 5/31/02. 
cle Studio, Pinnacle Express and ‘More video tips from Scott & Eric’ are trademarks of Pinnacle Systems, 


*Buy ANY Pinnacle Studio version 7 product AND any Pinnacle Express product between 2/15/02 and 4/30/02 and 
coupon, dated sales receipt, and the official UPC codes from the boxes of both products to the address on the ci 
Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery. ©2002 Pinnacle Systems, Inc. Pinnacle Systems is a registered trademark and Pinna 
Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 


EDITORIAL Z | 


Editor in Chief Barry Golson 
Executive Editor Larry Smith 
Design Director hezzi 
Managing Editor Maria Carmicino 
Depts. Editor Ron Bel Bruno Senior Staff Editor Scott Alexander Tech Editor Don Willmott | 
Senior Editors Rob Bernstein, Bilge Ebiri, Cree McCree | 
Director of Photography Gail Henry 
Style Director Warren Christopher 
Deputy Art Director José G. Fernandez 
Senior Associate Editor Jeremy Caplan 
Associate Art Director Trent Johnson 
Contributing Editors Laura Fisher Kaiser, David Sheff 
Online Editor Josh Robertson 
Copy Chief Kathleen Berger Copy Editor Cathy Mizgerd 
Research Editor Sharon L. Festinger 
Associate Photo Editor Mike Mandel 
Assistant Editor Meaghan O'Neill 
Assistant to the Editor in Chief Marshall Vickness 
Assistant to the Style Director Carly Buszta 
Art/Production Assistant Karen Lew 
Contributing Writers Alan Cohen, Roger Ebert, Angela Gunn, Steve Knopper, 
Charles C. Mann, Charles Pappas, Douglas Rushkoff, Robert Scheer 
Design Consultant Neal T. Boulton 


Ziff Davis Publishing Inc. 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Robert F. Callahan 
Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer Bart W. Catalane 
Senior Executive Vice President, Publishing Operations Tom McGrade 
Executive Vice President Peter Longo 
Executive Vice President Stephen D. Moylan 
Executive Vice President and 
Editorial Director (Editor in Chief, PC Magazine) Michael J. Miller 
Senior Vice President (Circulation) Charles Mast 
Senior Vice President (Game Group) Dale Strang | 
Vice Presidents Ken Beach (Corporate Sales), John Dodge (News), 
Barry Golson (Editor in Chief, Yahoo! Internet Life), 
Kim Hoover (Chief Information Officer), 
Charles Lee (Integrated Solutions), 
Aimee D. Levine (Corporate Communications), 
Eric Lundquist (Editor in Chief, eWEEK), 
Bill Machrone (Technology), David Mullen (Controller), 
Michael Perkowski (Ziff Davis Market Experts), 
Tonia E. Ries (Marketing), 
Carolyn Schurr Levin (General Counsel), 
Sloan Seymour (Publishing Director, Baseline), 
Tom Steinert-Threlkeld (Editor in Chief, Baseline), 
Stephen Sutton (Internet Audience Development), 
Stephen Veith (Publisher, C/O Insight), Jason Young (Internet Advertising Sales) 


Ziff Davis Media Inc. 
Executive Vice President and General Manager, eTesting Labs Mark Van Name 
Chief Technology Officer (Internet Operations) Alan Bourassa 
Senior Director, Manufacturing Carlos Lugo 
Director, International Christin Lawson 


Contact anyone on this masthead via e-mail using firstname _lastname@ziffdavis.com 
Subscription information: 800.950.0484 Editorial phone number: 212.503.4790 | 
Copyright © 2002 Ziff Davis Media Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Yahoo! is a trademark of Yahoo! Inc. 
Internet Life is a trademark of Ziff Davis Publishing Holdings Inc. 
Printed in the U.S.A. 


BUSINESS 


Publisher Diane M. Silberstein New York 212.503.4750 
Associate Publisher John Weisgerber New York 212.503.4715 
Marketing Director Paige McCrensky New York 212.503.4662 

Promotion Director Denise Miller New York 212.503.4452 

Business Director Cathy Bendoff Chicago 630.382,9029 

Business Manager Rita Hardial New York 212.503.5618 

New York Account Managers Karen Brodsky 212.503.4707 

Jennifer Musillo 212.503.4784 Rebecca Woodard 212.503.4710 
Midwest Sales Manager Molly Livermore Chicago 630.382.9027 
Detroit Account Manager Hans Gappy Detroit 248.359.2902 
Southeast Sales Manager Ed Kobylus Atlanta 770.434.0372 
Southwest Sales Manager Casie Schlereth Newport Beach, CA 949.760.0041 
Account Manager Christina Babbits San Francisco 415.547.8827 
Texas/Mountain Regional Manager Lucinda Weikel Dallas 214.824.9008 
Research Associate Eileen Lennon New York 212.503.4620 
Marketing Associate Amy Feezor New York 212.503.4672 
Executive Assistant to the Publisher and Associate Publisher 
Heather Kuhn New York 212.503.4733 
Advertising Coordinator Laura Quirk New York 212.503.4335 
Advertising Production Manager Ivis Fundichely New York 212.503.6021 
Advertising Production Coordinator Kelly Redznak New York 212.503.6028 
Sales Associate Michele Itzkowitz New York 212.503.4809 
Sales Coordinators Anne King (Chicago), Kathleen McDonald (Detroit) 
Lindsay Bleier (San Francisco) 


Circulation 
Consumer Marketing Director Tracy Schultz New York 212.503.5735 
Single-Copy Sales Director Robert Kerekes New York 212.503.5379 
Internet and Partnership Marketing Director Chris Wilkes New York 212.503.5752 


Advertising Offices 
28 East 28th St., New York, NY 10016 
800 Jorie Bivd., Suite 110, Oak Brook, IL 60523 
26400 Lahser, Suite 322, Southfield, MI 48034 
50 Beale St., Floor 13, San Francisco, CA 94105 


Ziff Davis Media Inc. 


Subscription Information 
For subscription service questions, address changes, or to order, please contact us at: Web: 
serviceyil.com (customer service) or subscribeyil.com (orders); phone: U.S. and Canada 
800.950.0484 or 850.682.7624, elsewhere 303,604.7445; mail: Yahoo! Internet Life, P.O. Box 
53380, Boulder, CO 80322-3380 (please include your mailing label with any correspondence, 
as it contains information that will expedite processing); fax: U.S. and Canada 850.683.4094, 
elsewhere 303.604.0518; e-mail (please type your full name and the address at which you 
subscribe; do not send attachments): subhelp@yil.com. Subscriptions: The one-year (12-issue) 
subscription rate is $1997. Outside the U.S., add $16 per year for surface mail, U.S. funds only. 
Please allow 3 to 6 weeks before receiving your first issue as well as for any changes to take 
place on an existing subscription. Back issues: Back issues are $8 each in the U.S., $9 each 
elsewhere (subject to availability). Prepayment is required. Make checks payable to Yahoo! 
Internet Life. Mail your requests to: Back Issues, Ziff Davis Publishing Inc., P.O. Box 53131, 
Boulder, CO 80322-3131. Mailing lists: We sometimes make lists of our customers available to 
mailers of goods and services that may interest you. If you do not wish to receive their mail- 
ings, please write to us at: Yahoo! Internet Life, P.O. Box 53380, Boulder, CO 80322-3380. 


Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. For permission to reuse mate- 
tial in this publication (or on this Web site) or to use our logo, contact Ziff Davis Media's Rights 
and Permissions Manager, Olga Gonopolsky, at olga_gonopolsky@ziffdavis.com or by phone at 
212.503.5438 or fax at 212.503.5420. For reprints, call 800.290.5460. 


18 Yahoo! Internet Life » March 2002 


Bring your PlayStation 2', Xbox; and 
Nintendo’ to a new level of excitement! 
kkk 


“Top-notch and for hardcore gamers will be 
‘something that is used every single day.” 
JE Magazine, December 2001 


FINALIST 


‘MacWorld Eddy Awards, December 2001 


Watch TV on your PC 
display with the ViewSonic 
VBS50HRTV Video Box and 
included remote control. 
No PC required. 


Forget all those wires on 


Join the resolution revolution; make your desktop your new TV/gaming center. your desktop. ViewSonic's 

If only you could play your gaming equipment on your PC display for typically crisper graphics than matching wireless keyboard 

your TV allows. Now you can with the new TV-tuner video box from ViewSonic? Or watch high oe Ce eS 

resolution TV, DVD, and VCR media? Perfect for busy executives taking a break, it’s even better for 

dorm or kids’ rooms where space is too tight for both a TV and PC display. At just $129.99 (MSRP), 

the ViewBox” VB5OHRTY is easy to find at a dealer near you or ViewSonic.com/entertainment. 

Cut the cords and kick back with the wireless keyboard and mouse. palace meal det 


On the couch or in the easy chair, you're no longer tied to your desk to use your PC. Relax 
anywhere in the room with the stylish metallic-and-black matching keyboard and mouse — just 
$79.99 (MSRP) at a dealer near you or ViewSonic.com/entertainment. 


displays, including afford- 
able LCDs and the very 
stylish digital VX Series. 


See the difference® in award-winning display choices from ViewSonic. 

Slimmer panels, brighter screens, crisper pictures are all available today from the #1 monitor Available at: 

display company in the USA.** With LCDs now an affordable option, visit ViewSonic.com to Pra gee Ww 
see choices ranging from stylish 15" displays to roomy 23" multimedia digital LCDs, ideal for 

true gaming enthusiasts. ee Computing Solutions 


Built for Business* 
‘wewew.edw.com 


pearl pyar ee et ieee coed Wevconic 


(Stanford Resource Inc., Monitrak (3, 2001). Corporate names and traclemarks stated herein such as Sony” PlayStation y See the di 
Nintendo® are the property of their respective companies. Copyright © 2002 ViewSonic Corporation. All rights reserved. [10442-01E 12/01) ee the ifference: 


=| 
m 


S 


S 


AGE 


>) CE VN TE PR 
WHO SAYS PRINT ISN'T INTERACTIVE? 
To the editor: Write to yilreadermail@ziffdavis.com 


HE SAID, 


SHE SAID 
INTERNET LIFE 


P. d 


Sites” [January 
02, page 79] you 
list a “best” site 


"NET 
1OO ssa 


Nothing for men or Caucasians. | 


for women, kids, 
Asians, Afri 


Americans, La- 


‘an 


tinos, and gays. 


No wonder there are so many 
angry white males these days. 
I suppose a site for them would 
somehow be illegal. 

LEE C. 


@brew-master.com 


I was surprised to find that your 
magazine seems geared toward 
men. Intelligent women are on 
the Internet as well. 
JENNIFER VELASQUEZ 


@msn.com 


BAGGING NATIONAL IDs 

I was somewhat dismayed by 
Robert Scheer’s support of a na- 
tional ID card [Privacy Watch, 
January '02, page $4]. He admits 


that it would not do anything to 
curb terrorism. He also states 
that the American people are 
willing to give up some of their 
freedoms for security. | think it 
was Ben Franklin who stated that 
when freedom is given up for se- 
curity, you soon lose both. | am 
not in favor of buying security 
at the price of freedom. 
ART KENNEDY 
@wmonline.com 


I disagree with Robert Scheer 
except when he noted that na- 
tional ID cards would not stop 


In “100 Best | 


terrorism. Anything made to- 
day can be copied and forged. 
Even the government's own 
systems are hacked. Under 
Hitler, the Jews were tattooed 
and given IDs. Is that what we 
want for our kids? No, thanks. 
We live in a democracy. 
ALFRED DELEEL 
@yahoo.com 


FASTER, PLEASE 


It has been said that the lack of 


broadband content is the main 
reason mainstream usage of DSL 
and cable broadband has not 
soared. Please help your readers 
find great broadband content, 
and we'll try it enthusiastically. 
Broadband users spend consid- 
erably more time surfing than 
dial-up users, So what gives? Give 
us some broadband coverage! 
MIGUEL NUNEZ 

@verizon.net 


Technology Editor Don Willmott 
responds: More and more Y-Life 
readers are enjoying fast broadband 
connections, Thats why we launched 
the Fat Pipe column in our Web Guide 
section last fall: to highlight sites and 
services that take advantage of broad- 


band speed to deliver new hinds of 


content. This month, for example, 
we're focusing on two great services: 
Mediashare and MusicPlayground, 
Check them out on page 89. 


ETHICAL ISOLATION 

It was very disturbing to read 
Angela Gunn's statement [Net 
Ethics, December 01, page 68] 
that self deception has no ethi- 
cal significance because “ethics 


implies action in relation to an- 


20 Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


other being.” I grant that Gunn's 
view is a widely held academic 
position, but it is a thoroughly 


destructive one. The purpose of 


ethics is to guide people in living 
their lives. In her view, only the 
effects of actions on other peo- 
ple count in this regard, not the 
effect on oneself, Why should I 
take into account the effects of 
my actions on every other per- 
son in the world but ignore their 


consequences in my own life? 


GARY MCGATH 


@primushost.com 


Angela Gunn responds: Think of it like 
this: You are the last person on earth, 
You tell a lie. To whom? Who is af- 
fected? If you know it’s a lie and you 
tell it to yourself, who the heck are 
you fooling, and in that case isn’ the 
“lie” just empty words, entertainment, 
fiction? And if you dont know ita lie, 
you're delusional, another condition 
that negates a great deal of ethical 
weight, Either way, the action only has 
effect and therefore import when it 
has an object nonprivileged by agency 


or, in 


iglish, only when someone else 
is around to be affected by it. 


THREE CHEERS 

FOR BIG BROTHER 

I disagree with Robert Scheer's 
opinion [Privacy Watch, Decem- 
ber ’o1, page 71] that the federal 
government should not be per- 
mitted to monitor our online ac- 
tivities. The invasion is warranted. 
Even if sophisticated criminals 
use codes or encryption to avoid 


—— 


» | SITE GAG 


J 


prying eyes, their addresses will 
be discovered, patterns estab- 
lished, and an electronic trail 
created, Of course, electronic in- 
telligence will never take the place 
of human intelligence, but it is an 
additional tool for the Feds to 
work with. The innocent have 
nothing to fear or hide. This type 
of online monitoring is long over- 
due. The Founding Fathers could 
not have conceived of the global 
reach of the Internet when they 
penned the Fourth Amendment. 
If King George's spies had had 
the ability to transmit sensitive 
information as we do today, I'm 
sure a bit of privacy invasion would 
have been tolerated. 
MARK HAPP. 
@2z.net 


THE BOOK VS. THE FILM 
have the right 


Tolkien puris' 
not to watch movies based on 
his books [“Hobbits Go Holly- 
wood,” December 01, page 104], 
ing out. | am well 


but they're mi 
aware of the liberties directors 
take when filming a book, but if 
they get the point across, I'm 
satisfied. I’ve seen The Lord of 
the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring 
three times, and when I read the 
books again, I will still have my 
own imagination. I will not see 
what director Peter Jackson sees. 
ERIC SHARPE 

@verizon.net 


You talkin’ to us? We hope so! Write 
to us at yilreadermail@ziffdavis.com. 


CARTOON © 2002 MICK STEVENS FROM CARTOONBANK.COM. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 


Warning: 
— = Your online broker may not 
iy =e ~<a want you to see this. 


mal Ss 


> “ mS 
CS ee 
ONLINE |» 
FEATURES & |, 1 E-TRADE | AMERITRADE | FIDELITY SCHWAB 
SERVICES 


Limit or Market i $13.00 $30.00 

Equity Order Benat and Nasdaq Limit Limit $29.95 
ey larket orders . 

Commissions Biotets $8.00 $25.00 13¢/share over 1000 


(15,000 Shares $14.95 Market Market 
Traded Online) Listed Market orders only| . +2¢/share over 1,000 


=o) Think about it 


Free and Unlimited Quotes, Level Il, Quotes’, Level Il, 
Streaming Watch Lists, News, Charts, 
Real-Time Data 2 Time & Sales® | 


Unrestricted 
Direct Access No No Inte) i 
Trading Platform 

H 
Commitment | {) 
on Executing None Limited® None None fi 
Marketable Orders Ly 

i S 1 
i / 


ee fae 


There’s no hiding the truth. When you compare Datek to the competition, you'll see what sets us apart. Our 
innovative routing technology, streaming, realtime information and free access to research tools give experienced 
traders the advantage in today’s market. Isn't it time you got everything you need to trade at your level? 


Get when you open an account. 
Apply today at www.datek.com/mag5 and enter offer code DCC. 


www.datek.com/mag5 Built to trade- 
DATEK 
1-877-88-DATEK -s 


www.island.com 


ustome! 
Platint 


=" ©2004 Yahoo! the 


" 7 5 % 
Meet your heroes again. : 


COURTESY OF DANELDON.ORG 


A LIFE 
CUT 
SHORT 


ion for victims of 


By age 20, Dan Eldon had traveled four continents and organized a relief mis 


the civil war in Mozambique. Soon after, he captured some of the first shocking images of So- 


malia’s famine, launching his career as a photojournalist for Reuters. In 1993, while covering a 


political uprising in Mogadishu, he was stoned to death along with three other journalists by an 
angry mob of Somalis. He was 22. Eldon’s poignant personal journals are enshrined at Inspired 
by the Life and Work of Dan Eldon [daneldon.org]. These eclectic collages— created from snapshots 
of newspaper clippings, sketches, and various found objects—reflect the eyes-wide-open way 
Eldon absorbed his environs. Although the journals are housed in the Los Angeles County Mu- 


seum of Art, you can browse them on the Web. As one reporter put it, “You may never have 


heard of Dan Eldon, but once you do, you may never forget him.” MEAGHAN O'NEILL 
THERE'S MORE TO PDA COMPUTING GOT A 1993 DEREK JETER BASEBALL OLD WAY/NET WAY SEARCHES FOR 
THAN MANAGING TO-DO LISTS. HOME CARD IN YOUR JUNK DRAWER? SERIOUS COMPUTER SPEAKERS 
& OFFICE BROWSES THE BEST PALM FIND OUT WHAT IT'S WORTH AT THAT'LL PUMP UP THE VOLUME AND. 
SOFTWARE DOWNLOAD SITES THIS INCREDIBLY USEFUL SITE DO JUSTICE TO YOUR MP3S 


www.yil.com > March 2002 


25 


26 


Click! acound the net 


Net Briefs 


WHAT A GIRL WANTS 
Christina Aguilera is the latest celeb to 
clash with sleazy Internet porn distribu- 


tors. On her official Web site [christina-a. 


coml, the towheaded diva has refuted 
claims that she is the star of an X-rated 


video making the rounds online. Her 


statement goes on to threaten “criminal 
proceedings” against anyone fraudulently 
identifying her as the porn star, 


NET GAINS, NET LOSSES 

While the total number of people surf- 
ing the Net continues to increase, the ac- 
tual number of Web sites declined by 
182,142 during a one-month period from 
November to December 2001, according 
to Netcraft, a U.K.-based security consul- 
tancy. Its research indicates that site oper- 
ators are increasingly reluctant to invest in 
registration fees and upkeep for older 
properties. Nonetheless, Netcraft says that 
the Web's global expansion will reverse 
this trend. So remember, there are just 36 
million sites out there. Make them last. 


IRS PCs MIA 


In the “what goes around comes around” 


department, a recent self-audit at the 


Internal Revenue Service revealed that 
more than 2,300 of its computers are 
missing. The agency says the “lost” com- 
puters weren't storing personal taxpayer 
information, and there is no danger 
of sensitive financial data falling into 


the wrong hands. 


| WANT MY MPC 

The network that brought us Tom Green 
and Carson Daly has introduced its 
newest star: an MTV-branded home 
computer. The system, which will retail 
for about $1,800, comes equipped with 
a DVD-compatible CD drive and burner, 
radio and television tuners, and exclu- 


Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


IT'S NOT ME Pop queen Christina Aguilera says “no” to Web sites posting a porn video that stars 


an anonymous blond woman. 


sive MTV content. And no, Gwen Stefani 
is not providing tech support. 


SURFERS BUY INTO 
STEREOTYPES 
It'sa first: More women than men shopped 


online during the holiday season, accord- 


ing to research from the Pew Internet & 


American Life Project [www.pewinternet. 
orgl. Its study also reports that more than 


29 million Americans shopped online 


dustry, Norwegian authorities have brought 
charges against teenager Jon Johansen 
for his part in writing and releasing a 
program that cracks antipiracy DVD pro- 
tections. Called DeCSS, the software lets 
DVD owners view movies on PCs and 
other platforms not approved by the Mo- 
tion Picture Association of America. While 
Hollywood worries that surfers could use 
DeCSS to illegally copy and swap movies 
online and off, Johansen's supporters— 


‘Authorities have a responsibility to 
_ guarantee that this marvelous 
instrument serves the common good 


and does not become a source o 


POPE JOHN PAUL Il, CALLING FOR REGULATION OF THE NET TO STEM THE SPREAD OF "DEGRADING" MATERIALS 


arm’ 


during this time, spending approximately 
$392 per person (up from $330 in 2000). 
AOL shopping channels won big, with 
sales up a record 72 percent from last 


year’s holiday period 


DVD HACKER REELING 
A happy ending for Hollywood? After 
pressure from the U.S entertainment in- 


including the Electronic Frontier Foun- 
dation [eff.orgl—argue that he should 
not be put on trial for breaking into his 
own property (i.e., the disc itself). Jo- 
hansen faces up to two years in prison 
if found guilty of the charges. 


THE CLICK AROUND THE NET CLIQUE: SCOTT 
ALEXANDER, ROB BERNSTEIN, MEAGHAN O'NEILL. 
WRITE TO CLICK AT CLICK@ZIFFDAVIS.COM, 


ISABEL SNYDER/CORBIS OUTLINE 


The New Shape in PC Cameras 


A revolution in PC camera flexibility and design is here. 


For photos away from your computer, the compelling shape 


will get you noticed. At your PC, you'll be amazed at the 
quality it brings to your video chatting, video e-mail, 
and web photos. Ordinary PC cameras use a VGA 
sensor, but the PC-CAM’s genuine XGA CCD sensor 

has a higher native resolution for the clarity and 

detail you need for quality photography and live video. 


| ntrigu ed ? Visit www.creative.com/pccam600/ 


1.3 Megapixel 1280x960 photos * 16MB of built-in memory 
Stores over 200 photos » XGA CCD Sensor * Easy USB Connection 


CREATIVE 


©2002 Creative Technology Ltd. The Creative logo is a registered trademark 
of Creative Technology Ltd. in the United States and/or other countries. 


Click! acound the net 


Smart Moves... 


CALIFORNIA URLS 

California courts recently upheld the 
state’s anti-spam legislation, which re- 
quires senders of unsolicited e-mail to 
provide recipients with a real return ad- 
dress ora toll-free number in the body 
of the message. When will Congress 


pass a federal law for the rest of us? 


CAPTURING PEDO-FILES 

Law enforcers in Sangamon County, Illi- 
nois, have begun installing monitoring 
software on convicted sex offenders’ com- 
puters. The ever-vigilant program, called 
Cyber Sentinel, keeps an eye on proba- 
tioners who chat or surf online and alerts 


officials to suspicious behavior, 


THE TELLTALE HEART 
Thanks to a high-tech defibrillator im- 
. heart-d 


plant from Medtronic 


ients can wirelessly send cardiac- 


related data straight from their chests to 


the Net for analysis by physicians 


Delete! 


—___..Dubious Deeds ____ 


AOL REJECTS HARVARD! 


Because of anthrax scares, Harvard Uni 


versity contacted most early-admission 
applicants via e-mail this year. However, 
between 75 and 100 of the letters were 
lost after AOL's spam filter incorrectly 


labeled the mess 


‘ages as junk mail 


THE TROJAN WAREZ 

In January, antivirus software publisher 
Symantec discovered that certain versions 
of the popular file-sharing programs 
Grokster and LimeWire (and, some users 
say, KaZaA) carried a Trojan horse. The 
insidious program does not damage PC 


data but can secretly steal user info, 


CUSTOMER DISSERVICE 


This past holiday season, many e-tailers 


received failing grades in customer ser- 
vice. According to Jupiter Media Metrix, 
one-third of the 250 stores surveyed took 


more than three days to respond to shop- 


pers’ queries or didn’t respond at all. 


“The e-mail may or may 
not be stuck on the hard drive. 
he ‘may or may not’ part is 


really 


big enoug 


to drive a car through” 


JOAN FELDMAN, PRESIDENT OF COMPUTER FORENSICS, POSTULATING ON THE WHEREABOUTS: 
OF DAMNING MESSAGES SENT BY ENRON EXECUTIVES 


Top of the Net 


MUSIC VIDEOS 


Top five streams at Yahoo! Launch 


SHOPPING 


Fastest growing e-tail sites, according. 
to Nielsen/NetRatings. 

1 COLUMBIA HOUSE 

[columbiahouse.com] 

2 FINGERHUT.COM 

3 OVERSTOCK.COM 

4 OFFICE DEPOT [officedepot.com] 

5 APPLE [apple.com] 


Rankings reflect traffic during November and 
December 2001. 


launchyahoo.coml. 


‘ending 1/3/02 


28 Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


1 SHAKIRA, "Whenever, Wherever" 
2 NO DOUBT, "Hey Baby” 
_ 3 BRITNEY SPEARS, 
“I'ma Slave 4 U" 
4 LINKIN PARK, “In the End” 
5 ENRIQUE IGLESIAS, “Hero” 


Rankings reflect downloads during the week 


‘ENTERTAINMENT 


The five most popular movie stars, as 
voted by visitors to Hartis Interactive 
[www.harrisinteractive.coml. 

1 JULIA ROBERTS 

2 TOM HANKS 

3 HARRISON FORD 

4 MEL GIBSON 

5 SEAN CONNERY 
Rankings rellect surfers votes during the period 
November 9-14, 2001 


The Thing 


iiaivem| Our seats may still be warm 
wel TSI from the first film, but we're 
already antsy for the release 
of the next installment of J.R.R. Tolkien's 
The Lord of the Rings. Catch up on your 
Middle-earth lore @ TheOneRing.net. 


JAK After star turns in the indie sur- 
prise Donnie Darko and the 
much-maligned Bubble Boy, 
this up-and-comer is cast opposite Dustin 
Hoffman in Goodbye Hello. Join his fans @ 
Jake Gyllenhaal [jakegyllenhaal.coml. 


The 19-year-old Dubliner is the 
latest songster to go Holly- 
wood. This month, she makes 
‘her big-screen debut in the remake of H.G. 
Wells's The Time Machine. Read about her 
future @ The Official Website of Samantha 
Mumba [samanthamumba.coml. 


GYLLENHAAL: JENNIFER LIVINGSTON/CPI; MUMBA: SEAN COOK/CPI 


aaa chit Audio that 


Astound you... 


Connectivity that wiji¢Empower you 


's. > 2 
Sive Data > Sy LAN-Lke 


Sound Blaster® Audigy™ offers stunning audio quality with 100dB SNR, 24-bit 
audio clarity and EAX® ADVANCED HD™ effects. Combine that with the power 
of the integrated SB1394™ port and you have the definitive PC audio solution. 
The SB1394™ offers optimum performance and speed by allowing you to connect 

up to 63 other IEEE® 1394 enabled devices including external hard drives, 

hi-speed CDRWs and other Sound Blaster® Audigy™ cards. With an amazing 
transfer rate of up to 400 Mbps, it enables you to seamlessly transfer/back-up 
massive MP3 collections, enjoy low latency LAN-like multi-player gameplay and 
PC to PC networking and also hook up your DV Camcorder to edit your home videos. 


Learn more about Audigy” ADVANCED HD™ and SB1394™ at www.soundblaster.com. 


oo! CREATIVE 


Sound Blaster® 
Audigy™ Platinum eX 
with dual SB1394 ports 


* 
©2002 Creative Teco Ltd. The Creative logo is a registered PAbit 
trademark of Creative Technology Ltd. in the United States and/or 
other countries. All brands or product names listed are trademarks or 7 
registered trademarks and are property of their respective holders. = 


PALMS AWAY 


NEED SPORTS STATS ON THE GO? 
COOL PDA SOFTWARE CAN HELP 


If you use a Palm-based personal digital 
nt, you're familiar with its basic fea- 


tures; calendar, address book, to-do list, 


and memos. But if you use it only for tap- 
ping in names and dates, you've merely 
scratched the surface of your Palm’s tal- 
ents, One simple program turns the Palm 
into a TV remote control, for instance. 


Other applications store recipes for chefs, 


MOST POPULAR 
SITE FREE DOWNLOAD 


track stats for baseball fans, and serve up 
local newspapers for news addicts. Nu- 
merous sites offer these programs either 
for free or inexpensively. Once down- 
loaded to your PC and integrated with 
your Palm Desktop software, these pro- 


grams automatic stall themselves 


on your PDA the next time you HotSync. 
To search for a particular program, visit 
CNet Shareware.com [shareware.coml, or 
head directly to one of the Palm software 


portals listed below. JEREMY CAPLAN 


MOST POPULAR 


OTHER 
PAID DOWNLOAD FEATURES 


EUROCOOL Palmasutra 2(a compact ver- | AnyExpense tracks expenses) | Foreign-language and 
IEUROCOOL.COM! _| sion of the Kama Sutra) $1995 international software 

ia Rina Init turns Pl nto minon | Wold DacGonveret converts | Palm acessories, clearance 

irror (turns Palm into a mirror) | Microsoft Word documents to | specials 
THANDANGO.COMI | pereser 
PALM BOULEVARD é Afterbumer 3.0w (speeds Palm-related news and 
IPALMBLVD.COM] Blocks 1.2 la Tetris-ike'game) | 5 Baim performance) $8 message boards 
BigClock 2.83 (features a timer, | SilverScreen 2.3.3 (enhances 13,000 available titles, tips, 

FALMGEAR.COM stopwatch, and world time) Screen interface), $1995 and tricks for Palm systems 


30 


Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


It just isn't a good idea to 

tuna business from the din- 

ing room table, Serious work- 

at-homers set up sensible 
offices to make themselves feel orga- 
nized and productive—and to keep the 
mess contained. Start designing your 
home work space at FurnitureFind.com, 
which offers a few dozen varieties of 
desk chairs in leather or fabric from about 
$100 to $600. You'll also find armoire- 
like computer furniture (from about $700 
to $2,600) that can hide your entire 
office setup once the end of the day rolls 
around. These 
cabinets are de- 
signed to let you 
run all that wiring 
down the back 
and out of sight. 
If you don't see 
what you're look- 
ing for, send off 
an e-mail to the 
store's Personal 
Shopper service 
and let it suggest 
something that 
fits your needs. 


Think Ink 


Good color printers don't 
cost very much anymore, but 
those replacement ink car- 
tridges...ouch, why are they 
so expensive? Actually, they aren't—if 
you know where to look. Find the best 
prices at InkSell.com, which carries car- 
tridges compatible with just about every 
model from the top printer manufac- 
turers. Typical prices are at least 15 per- 
cent below brand-name retail, but search 
around the site for discounts of up to 70 
percent. While you're there, check out 
prices on ink-jet paper for both regu- 
lar prints and photos. Anyone who's 
been getting into digital photography 
will immediately appreciate the sav- 
ings. Ifyou use a laser printer, look for 
discounts of up to 50 percent on toner 
cartridges. DON WILLMOTT 


PDA USER: ZEFA FASTFORWARD/PHOTONICA 


-_ @ = ws Shopping 
oe Buy book on raising twin boys. 
Search 
J Hyperactivity. 


\ _ 


—_ 
—_ ws N 
\ = * 
be *> = Money ! 
— 
Check account balance J 
People & Cha for spa getaway. 
Get advice about 
teaching kids to share. 


™ 
® 


With MSN; the Internet service from 
Microsoft, you'll see just how useful 

the Web can be. Built with advanced 
Microsoft® technology and tuned for 
Broadband, MSN is a great alternative to 
AOL. With the most popular e-mail and 
search; plus great shopping, finance, and 
music, MSN has everything you need to 
get on the Web and everything you want 
when you get there. Visit msn.com today. 


| Click! bincredibly useful sites: 


32 


THIS MONTH’S MOST PRACTICAL DESTINATIONS 


Look Up International 
hone Numbers 

When you need to dial Syen in Sweden 

or Orshy in Hungary, don’t slog through 

confusing calls to faraway op. 


ors or 
tiresome trips to your local public li- 
brary’s dusty international phone-book 
collection. You can track down phone 
numbers from Grozny to Grenada at 
www.PhoneNumbers.net. As a bonus, some 
countries’ search results come with maps, 
so you can see where your friends live. 
(You may need to hit AltaVista Trans- 
lator if you don’t read Russian.) 


Find a Video Nearby 


You want to see Jaws 2 (you have a thing 
for self-torture), and you want to see it 
tonight (you have a thing for instant 
gratification). But if you trek down to 
the local video store, there’s no way of 
knowing if it even has the tape in its col- 
lection. So, being exceptionally intelli- 


Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


gent, you call ahead and find out that yes, 
the store stocks it, but another Roy Schei- 
der fan has made off with it. No prob- 
lem. Enter your ZIP code and the title of 
the flick at ForMovies.com [formovies.coml, 
and the site will come up with a list of 
nearby stores that stock it. You'll be on 
Amity Island by nightfall. 


Get Free Legal Advice 
Why give hundreds of dollars to lawyers 
when all you're looking for are straight- 
forward answers to general legal ques- 
tions: When is arbitration binding? What 
is the Truth in Lending Act? FreeAdvice.com 
offers easy-to-understand replies to hun- 
dreds of frequently asked legal questions 
in more than 20 categories, from accidents 
to intellectual property. It’s a great first 
stop for anyone who needs to quickly get 
up to speed on a legal situation, but of 
course should not substitute for consul- 
tation with an attorney: 


SEND US NEWS OF YOUR USEFUL FIND! WRITE TO IUS@ZIFFDAVIS.COM 


BY JEREMY CAPLAN 


Pick a Chat 


Whatever your mood or interest, Ultimate 
Chatlist [chatlist.com] will find you a place 
to gab Grumble about your favorite stock's 
recent tumbles, or catch up on the latest 
Hollywood gossip. Sing the praises of 
your favorite band, or heap scorn on the 
newest Lord of the Rings fan fiction. Not 
sure what subject to dive into? Use the 
listings to find an interesting topic. 


Search Financial Sites 


When you're seeking specifi 


c business 
information, getting 8,000 irrelevant 
search results isn’t just unhelpful, it’s 
counterproductive. Instead of digging 
through reams of results, use a targeted 
search engine such as FinanceWise lwww. 
financewise.com]. Only financial pages are 
indexed by the site's editors. 


Price Your Collectibles 


When you're finally ready to sell that 
buffalo nickel or Mickey Mantle card, 


ited 
Collectors Universe [collectors.com]. Here 


don’t head for eBay until you've vi 


you can get the scoop on your stuff's 
value, along with info on authenticating 
your autographs and trading cards and 
grading your rare coins and stamps. You 
can also use the site to keep up with mar- 
ket news and find out where to send 


your items for professional appraisal. 


RUSSIAN MAN: CHRIS SANDERS/GETTY IMAGES; NIXON PLATE: WALLY McNAMEE/CORBIS. 


CROSSWORD PUZZLE: TONY HUTCHINGS/GETTY IMAGES; CONCERT: LOMO/NONSTOCK 


Solve Crossword 
Puzzles 


What's a six-letter word for something, 


that helps you conquer crossword puz- 
zles? Solver—as in AllWords.com: Cross- 
word Solver lallwords.com/solver], the 
cruciverbalist’s best friend. The site 
lets you search for words starting with, 
ending with, or containing any combi- 
nation of letters. Just fill in the letters 


you know and search away. And since 


you're doing the searching yourself, it’s 


not really cheating, right? 


Check Out Concert Tours 


Live music is one of life’s great joys, but 
how do you keep up with when and where 


your favorite re touring? Pollstar 


[pollstar.coml keeps tabs on more than 


23,000 events, including every- 
one from Garbage to Yo-Yo Ma. 


Register and the site will send an 


e-mail when your performers of 


choice update their tour sched- 


ules. The site is also searchable 


by city or venue if you want to 


find an event that’s close to home. 


Pick the 
Right Stock 


Buying stocks online is easy. 


Choosing ones that suit your in- 


vestmen egy is what's tricky, 
Make sure potential purchases 
are aligned with your financial 
profile with Yahoo! Finance: Stock 
Screener [screen.yahoo.com/stocks.htmll, 
free of charge. Don’t mind living dan 
gerously? How about a biotechnology 
stock with a low price/earning ratio 
and a thumbs-up from stock watchers? 
Punch in your choices and within a minute, 


you'll have a list of stocks to consider. 


Plan Your Painting 

Bright orange may have seemed to be a 
good idea at the time. But when you're 
ready to repaint your living room a more 
soothing color, use the MetLife: Paint 
Calculator [metlife.com/Lifeadvice/Tools/ 


Paintcalel to figure out how much paint 


you'll need to get the job done. Just type 


in the dimensions of the room and the 


number of coats and primer you intend 


to use, and the service determines the 


amount of paint required. 


PLAN YOUR NUPTIALS 

This is the time of year when bridal 
magazines tend to get extra-thick and 
all those early-summer weddings start 
to take shape. My Wedding Organizer 
Iweddingsoft.com] begins with the all- 
important basics of address-list man- 
agement, so you can keep track of 
invitations (the two families can merge 
their separate lists into one), RSVPs, 
and gifts. But there's more: From the 
first automated to-do list to the last 
customized thank-you note, the soft- 
ware has a tool for every aspect of the 
event. Free for 30 days; $34.95 to buy. 


KEEP THE CONNECTION 

If your ISP has the annoying habit of 
tossing you offline after a few minutes 
of inactivity (AOL is a known offend- 
er), Stay Connected! [inklineglobal.com] 
keeps the connection alive. By simu- 
lating mouse movements, it tricks the 
ISP into thinking you're still there, 
even if you're out to lunch. No more 
inopportune hang-ups or time-wast- 
ing redials. Free to try; $19.95 to buy. 


PALM-SIZE WEB PAGES 

It's easier than you might think to take 
the Web with you, even without a Net- 
enabled PDA. WebWhacker for Palm 
[bluesquirrel.com] specializes in con- 
verting sites into pages viewable ona 
Palm device. As you surf, just pick those 
pages you'll want to read later, and the 
next time you HotSync, the text and 
images will be sent to the device. You 
can even beam them to another Palm 
user via IR. $49.95 DON WILLMOTT 


wwwyil.com March 2002 33 


and downloads | 


Click! 


De Bw Y 


The built-in speakers in my son's iMac are fine for NPR 
feeds, but he wants to blast out music in his college dorm, 


particularly now that he burns his own CDs 


His birthday is coming up, so I visited our local Comp 
USA, where 
(model MH-s02, $99) or Altec Lansing (AT P3W, $6s) 


salesman suggested speakers by Monsoon 


Listened to them, along with a few others, but a friend had 
recommended a particular set made by Logitech. The store 
didn’t carry them, Decided to try the Net. 


TIME ELAPSED 40 minutes shopping and listening 
COMMENTS Speakers cost from $19 to $400. 


old way = net way’ 


THE NET-AND-NEW BY DAVID SHEFF 


BUYING COMPUTER SPEAKERS 


NET WAY 


BestBuy.com had the same Altec Lansings for $79.99 
higher than the CompUSA price. BestBuy also had the 
Logitech Z-340 speakers for $49. 


‘To compare, I checked Apple fapple.coml and saw the cool- 

looking Harman Kardon iSub speaker with SoundSticks 

(S199). But I stuck to my original plan and found the speak- 
ers I was after—Logitech Z-340 2.1—for $49. Placed the order 
here, although I would have been in fine shape at BestBuy, too. 


TIME ELAPSED 32 minutes surfing 
COMMENTS The speakers were delivered within a week 


for a nominal charge ($5). 


Cp) WINNER: NET WAY 


Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


EDEN ROBBINS 


Order 
for your family and get a 


> faster downloads >>> connect >> and create something @ BELLSOUTH’ 


> Getting BellSouth® FastAccess® DSL is a smart move. 


A high-speed Internet connection is a must-have for a 21st-century 


a ; are ; BellSouth’ FastAccess” 
family like yours. It will free up your phone line, it will help your kids Internet Service 


do better in school, and you might learn a few new things, too. 


Check out all these benefits of FastAccess DSL: 


Speed: Surf the Web and download large files in Reliability: BellSouth is a reliable broadband provider and 
minutes instead of hours. Get e-mail attachments, digital the company that you can count on to keep you connected. 
photos, music and film clips up to 50 times faster than with 


a dial-up connection** (As compared to 28.8K modems.) Convenience: BellSouth keeps it simple—from easy 


installation and setup to a single bill for your Internet and 
Value: For only $45 a month, FastAccess DSL delivers phone charges. 
unlimited high-speed Internet access*** And it allows you to 
talk on the phone and surf the Internet at the same time on 
the same phone line. 


Customer Care: BellSouth—nationally recognized for 
Internet service reliability and customer care—has a 
knowledgeable, friendly tech-support group available to 
Hassle-Free: Get rapid access to the Internet and assist you 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 

eliminate long waits and dial-up hassles. Since DSL doesnt 

tie up your phone line, enjoy the convenience of not having 

to log off. 


Just how fast is FastAccess DSL? 


Here's an example of a 3.8 MB digital photo after 20 seconds: 


28.8K modem 56K modem FastAccess® DSL 


be 
nd el 


Order today and get a FREE month: 


FastAccess DSL completes the 3.8MB file 
download as fast as 20 seconds. 
Download times with a 56K and 28.8K 


modem are so slow, it's staggering: more 


than 9 and 17 minutes respectively. 


a 3 - \ 
ast ecessigcom/connect2 : 
fect 877 540-76 ghee 


A one-time $50 service activation fee applies. DSL modem required for service. 

Promotional modem charges are $125 for ethernet modem or $75 for basic modem. Customers who cancel or fail to activate service within 60 days of modem ship date must return modem 
or additional modem charges of $75 will apply. Customers may avoid modem charges by supplying their own DSL modem. Customers choosing to supply their own modem are not eligible to 
receive a modem under this promotional offering. BellSouth® FastAccess” Internet Service is not available in all areas and prequalification does not guarantee service availability at 
installation location. Pricing plans include BellSouth charges and the Global Service Provider's (GSP) charges for connection to the global Internet. GSP service is provided to users by 
provider(s) unaffiliated with BellSouth and subject to the GSP’s terms and conditions. Standard installation fees are waived for customers who meet wiring and PC requirements and install 
service themselves (otherwise professional installation fees of $199.95 will apply). New residential customers only. BellSouth reserves the right to discontinue this promotion at any time. Other 
restrictions apply. See www-fastaccess.com for details. 

“The third full month is free; the first two full months and partial month (if any) will be billed at the normal monthly rate. 

“Download speeds may vary. 
***Price for BellSouth Solutions” plan customers is $45.00. Customers must have BellSouth Complete Choice® plan or BellSouth? Area Plus® service billed to the same line as FastAccess Service to 

qualify for BellSouth Solutions plan. Monthly price without BellSouth Solutions plan is $49.95. Prices subject to change. 

tAvailable for online purchases only. After successful installation, customer will receive an e-mail at their bellsouth.net e-mail address with instructions on how to download the software. 

All trademarks and service marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners. ©2002 BellSouth Corporation. All rights reserved. 


CONSULTING WITH A TREE DOCTOR 


OLD WAY 


Our Italian cypress trees were still losing needles on one 

side—more than a year after I wrote an unresolved Old 
Way/Net Way about them. Decided to try again. Through a 
friend of a friend, I contacted another tree doctor, Len Nel- 
son, whose company, Deblen Environmental Co. [eartheartplus. 
coml, markets a wide variety of all-natural tree and garden 
products. He asked me to send photographs, needles, and 
sandwich bags filled with dirt from the trees’ base. I sent 
everything to Nelson in Minnesota. 

Nelson found a fungus. He happened to be visiting a rela- 

tive in our area and made a house call, during which he 
applied an insect spray, plant food, and antifungal formula. 


Three months later there are signs that the trees are heal- 
ing. I'm keeping my fingers crossed. 


TIME ELAPSED: n/a 


COMMENTS Apparently most Italian cypress experts are 
in Italy, so we were very fortunate to find Nelson. 


INNER: OLD WAY 


NET WAY 


7] While awaiting the tree doctor's help, I looked to the Net's 

myriad sites about trees. While there were some devoted 
to elms and chestnuts, | couldn’t find a site about cypresses. 
Sites such as Tips 4 Trees [oregonlink.com/treecare] were too gen- 
eral for our problem. And gardening sites such as GardenWeb 
Igardenweb.coml and TreeHelp.com had valuable information but 


nothing to diagnose or treat our specific situation. 


TIME ELAPSED Na 


COMMENTS sometimes you need a hands-on approach. 


USING FREQUENT-FLIER MILES 


OLD WAY 


al Planning a quick trip to Hartford from San Francisco, | 
called United Airlines, where my frequent-flier miles were 
gathering dust. I was told that most flights were available for 
25,000 miles in coach or 40,000 miles in business class. 


Once I'd firmed up my dates, I called back and asked the 
reservation agent to hold a seat. However, I didn’t actually 
book the ticket, hoping for a better deal on the Net. 


TIME ELAPSED 14 minutes 


COMMENTS tnited (like other airlines) has cut back on 


its service to many cities, but I had no trouble finding flights. 


© WINNER: OLD WAY 


Abel pd dat 1) 08 


Checked for promotions at United [ual.coml. There were none 


for my dates of travel. Booked my flight online anyway. 


After se 


eral days, my plans changed, When I went back on- 


line, I found that it was impossible to switch a reservation, 


4 Called United and was informed that there was a $100 
charge to change my flights. However, the agent took pity 


on me and waived the fee. That could never happen online. 


TIME ELAPSED 40 minutes 


COMMENTS The rep on the phone was extremely kind. 


www.yil.com > March 2002 


35 


DIGITAL SANCTUARY. 


Immerse yourself in the digital world. These Compaq Presario Desktop PCs with Intel® Pentium® 4 Processors can bring 
graphics to life, burn music on CD, and render home movies on DVD, Let us build one for you. Call or visit our website 


for yours, and go on a nice long digital retreat. 


Compaq PCs use genuine Microsoft® Windows® 
www.microsoft.com/piracy/howtotell 
‘pr 


is not lat 
on Co 


hown are Compaq Direct sel ‘and do not include 
for editorial, pictorial, or typographical errors in this ach 


plicable sales tax and shipping, are valid in th 
ent, ‘Financing on approve 


notice, llustrations may 
MBNA America Bank, N.A. Payment 
max). ‘For hard driv 


\ccurately represent exact configurations priced, Retail prices may vary, Compaq 


igned only to a! 
2 of a Compar 


Digital Pro 


Presario 8000T-2.2 


$1999 


As low as $56 per month' 

Intel® Pentium® 4 Processor 2,20 GHz 
Microsoft® Windows® XP Home Edition 
512 MB PC2100 DDR SyncDRAM 

80.0 GB (7200 rpm) UltraDMA Hard Drive’ 
16X DVD-ROM Drive? 

24X CD-RW Drive” 

56K ITU V.90 Modem* 

Integrated 10/100 Network Interface Card 
‘Sound Blaster™ Live! Value 5.1 

JBL Platinum Speakers with Digital Audio Port 


64 MB DDR nVidia GeForce Titanium 200 with TV-Out 


Compaq CV735 17" Monitor (16.0" VA) 

Six Months of AOL Intemet Access Included? 
Personalize by choosing: 

Gold Starter Kit; Add $80 

Compaq CV935 19" Monitor (18,0" VIA); Add $140 


MyMovieSTUDIO. Just $499. 


Power User 
Presario 8000T-1.8 


$1499 


As low as $42 per month’ 

Intel Pentium 4 Processor 1.80 GHz 

Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition 

256 MB PC2100 DOR SyncDRAM, 

40.0 GB (7200 rpm) UltraDMA Hard Drive’ 
16X DVD-ROM Drive’ 

24X CD-RW Drive” 

56K ITU V.90 Modem* 

Integrated 10/100 Network Interface Card 
Soundmax It Digital Audio 

‘JBL Platinum Speakers with Digital Audio Port 
64 MB SDR nVidia GeForce? MX200 with TV-Out 
Compaq CV735 17" Monitor (16.0" VIA) 

‘Six Months of AOL Intemet Access Included 
Personalize by choosing: 

Siver Starter Kit: Add $50 

512 MB SyncDRAM: Add $100 


Family Champion 
Presario 5000T-1.7 


$1099" 


As low as $31 per month' 

Intel Pentium 4 Processor 1.70 GHz 
Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition 

256 MB PC2100 DOR SyncDRAM 

40.0 GB (5400 rpm) UltraDMA Hard Drive’ 
48X Max CD-ROM Drive® 

24X CD-RW Drive" 

‘56K ITU V.90 Modem* 

Integrated 10/100 Network Interface Card 
‘Soundmax Il Digital Audio 

JBL Platinum Speakers with Digital Audio Port 
32 MB nVidia M64 Pro 

Compa CV535 15" Monitor (13.8" VIA) 

‘Si Months of AOL Intemet Access Included 
Personalize by choosing: 

Bronze Starter Kit: Add $30 

Microsoft Windows XP Pro: Add $99 


Whiz Kid 
Presario 5000T-1.6 


$899’ 


As low as $26 per montht 

Intel Pentium 4 Processor 1.60 GHz 
Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition 

256 MB PC2100 DDR SyncDRAM 

20.0 GB (5400 rpm) UltraDMA Hard Drive! 
48X Max CD-ROM Drive’ 

‘56K ITU V.90 Modem* 

Integrated 10/100 Network Interface Card 
Soundmax II Digital Audio 

JBL Platinum Speakers with Digital Audio Port 
32 MB nVidia M64 Pro 

Compaq CV535 15" Monitor (13.8" VIA) 

Six Months of AOL Internet Access Included” 
Personalize by choosing: 

Compaq CV735 17" Monitor (16.0" VIA); Add $50 
24X CD-RW Drive’: Add $119 


Create and share your own home movies. Add MyMovieSTUDIO to your Compaq Presario Desktop PC. The editing software and easy access ports for digital cameras and 
Camcorders will make it simple to produce quality films. 


Just plug in and edit. It’s that easy. Connect your camera into the easy access ports to download your home videos onto your PC. Then edit your footage with Studio DV software. 
You can save your movie onto your hard drive, or burn it onto a DVD using your DVD-R/RW & CD-RW combo drive. 


It’s a blockbuster. You can play your movie on most DVD players. So gather your family and friends, pop it in, and wait for that Best Picture nomination, 


toll - free 


1-800-390-3269 | compag.com/athome 


> Buy direct from Compaq 


>To buy direct from Compag in Puerto Rico, call toll-free 1-800-668-5341. > Para comprar de Compaq directamente en Puerto Rico, llame gratuitamente al 1-800-668-5341. 


Compaq or through Compaq “Bult For You" Kiosks available at certain Compaq retailers. To avoid being charged a monthly AOL fee, simply cancel before six-month promotional offer ends, Premium services carry su(charges, and communication surcharges may apnly 
in certain areas, including in AK, even during promotional period. Members may incur telephone charges on thei phone bill, depending on their location and calling plan, even during prometional period. Acceptance of the applicable AOL Intemet Access agreement is required, Please see 
agreement for detalis at AOL keyword: TOS. Available to new members in the US. age 18 or older, and @ major creditcard or checking account is required. “4BX Max CD-ROM data transfer rates may vary from 2500 to 7200 Kbps. Microsoft® Windows® XP Home Edition installed. Compaq, 
the Compaq Logo, Inspiration Technology, and Presario are trademarks of Compaq Information Technologies Group, LP. in the U.S. and other counties. Intel, the intl Inside Logo, and Pentium are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries in the U.S. and 
‘other countries. Microsoft, MS, and Windows are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. America Online and AOL are registered service marks of America Online, ic. Products and company names mentioned herein may be trademarks and/or registered trademarks of other 
‘companies. ©2002 Compaq information Technologies Group, LP. 1322/03/02 


Sites & Scenes 


eta ce BARB ne LN oN EO 


A 


Top of the Morning 


Upgrade the medicine cabinet with these worthy toiletries. Clock- cream, $38, Lafco [lafcony.coml; Chanel Allure Homme eau de toi- 


wise from top left: Michael eau de toilette by Michael Kors, $60, _lette, $52.50, Gloss.com; Calvin Klein Eternity for Men aftershave, $34, 
eLuxury [eluxury.com]; Garren New York Holding & Molding gel, $20, _ Macys.com; Latitude Longitude soap by Nautica, $10, Macys.com; Neu- 
Garren New York [garrennewyork.com]; Santa Maria Novella shave __ trogena transparent facial bar, $2.50, Drugstore.com. MEAGHAN O'NEILL 


PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVIES*STARR 


CABINET AND CLOCK COURTESY OF MOSSONLINE.COM 


38 Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


DAVIES*STARR 


Bazaac 


(N) 


NAUTICA 
vitivate couront 
SHAVE CREAM 


CAevE DE RASAGE 
CONFORT ULTiMe 


42FLOZ 125 mi @ 


f POLO SPORT 


ACOL ADI 


GIO} 


GIORGIO ARAN 


Net Wt. 0.0 Ox. 


About Face 


» e Shave 
brushes, $45~—$55, Sephora.com. 
» Polo Sport, 
$12.50, Polo.com; Latitude Lon- 
gitude Ultimate Shave Creme 


from Nautica, $12, and Acqua 
di Gio by Giorgio Armani, $15, 
Macys.com; Zirh, $18.50, Zirh 
[zirh.com]. 3 99 

Mach3 Turbo razor, $9, Gillette 


I[gillette.coml; Microscreen 3 TCT 
electric shaver, $118, Remington 
[remington-products.com]; In- 
terFace, $50, Braun [braun.coml. 


» Clin- 


ique Happy for Men aftershave, 
$31, Gloss.com; Fahrenheit by 
Christian Dior, $38.50, eLuxury 
feluxury.coml; T by Tommy Hil- 
figer, $38, Tommy.com. 


www.yil.com » March 2002 


39 


WINNERS? PLEASE? 


An award for e-books goes to 
hard-copy titles. Give us a break 


WHAT DISTINGUISHES THE RECIPIENTS OF THE SECOND ANNUAL FRANKFURT E-BOOK AWARDS, 


announced last October by the International eBook Award Foundation? The 


two grand prizes, amounting to $50,000 each, were given to The Glass Palace by 
Amitav Ghosh (Random House) for fiction and to Crypto: How the Code Rebels 
Beat the Government by Steven Levy (Penguin Putnam) for nonfiction. The two 


$10,000 Distinguished eBook Awards went to the short-story collection Faith 


less: Tales of Transgression by Joyce Carol Oates (PerfectBound) for fic- 
tion and to The Making of Kind of Blue: Miles Davis and His Masterpiece by 


eilgs Eric Nisenson (St. Martin’s Press) for nonfiction 


GOTO 
YIL.COM/CRITICS 
FOR MORE INFO. 


Each of these is a worthwhile title, but something is rotten here. All 


THE VIRTUAL OFFICE, 9:30 p.m. 
SET UP IN CYBERSPACE [TALKCITY. 
COM/BIZCITY/BCC-CS.SHTML] 


GEOGRAPHY CHAT, 9 p.m, 
WHERE IT'S AT [GEOGRAPHY. 
ABOUT.COM/MPCHAT.HTM] 


MON TUE 


40 Yahoo! Internet Life >March 2002 


WED 


COWS, RONALD SUKENICK 
ANew York professor arrives in Colorado 
to help a philosophizing cowboy 
investigate the murders of his cattle. 
From there, this wacky tale hopscotches 
from spy thriller to science fiction to 
social critique, Drawing heavily from 

noir and raiding contemporary culture to 
the tune of JonBenét Ramsey and 
nuclear radiation, the packed narrative 
whips by so fast it leaves characters— 
and readers—reeling. Though style 
occasionally trumps substance, 
Sukenick's book is one original and very 
trippy ride. NM. faltx.com/ 
ebooks/cows.htmll (Free) 


__Music Shorts | 


DOROTHY AND RICHARD BERRY, 
“THE WORLD NEEDS PEACE" Written 
by former Raelette Dorothy Berry 
after a troubling Middle East tour in 
the ‘80s, this defiantly festive antiwar 
oddity—sung with her ex, Richard 
Berry (scribe of “Louie Louie”)—was 
revived online as a response to recent 
world events. A rolling rhythm, 
ratcheting guitars, and exhilarating 
horn blasts combine with Dorothy's 
soulful wail and Richard's royal croon 
to create a lost R&B classic—with a 
special bonus message about the 
only thing worth fighting for. A.M. 
flouielouie.net] 


THE ELECTRIC SOFT PARADE, 
“THERE'S A SILENCE" It's the music 
video that set a Guinness World 
Record, shot in Windows XP's Movie 
Maker one morning and Webcast 
globally early that afternoon. Appro- 
priately for the historic occasion, the 


DAVID ALDRIDGE ON THE NBA, | p.m, 
NOTHIN’ BUT NET [ESPN.GO.COM/ 
COMMUNITY/CHATI 


MILES DAVIS: LUCIANO VITI/RETNA UK 


SPIRIT CREEK: KYLE KUMMER; INCRIMINATI: SEETHRU,CO.UK 


the winners are hard-copy books that The notable exception, of course, was 


merely happened to have been pub- Stephen King’s experiment, Riding the 


Bullet, whose suce: 


lished simultaneously in electronic form. ss depended on recog- 


The only book awarded for its formal __ nition of its author's name. 


distinctive an e-book, Intrigues We hope e-books will someday be 


by Francois Taillandier (Les Editions judged for their positive criteria: not 
oohoo), was praised for its interac- _ only for their uniqueness thanks to hy- 


tivity, but its special citation involved _ pertext and its myriad possibilities, but 


no cash. Bas 
be 


whether it’s an e-book or not public. It may be true that few real 


ly, the judges seem to _ also for the speed with which a writ- 


ng that a good e-book is good _ ing project can be made available to the 


So far, what has 


nainly proved spe- e-books exist yet, but let us praise the 


cial about exclu: digital e-books idea of them anyway—in anticipation 


is that their publishers have judged them _ of the inevitable day when actual ones 


not worth publishing in any other form. will be born. CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 


SMELLS LIKE 
STREAMED SPIRIT 


Online Music Award winner Spirit Creek flows on 


COULD THE NET-AS-SAVIOR-OF-THE-LITTLE-GUY CLICHE ACTUALLY BE COMING TRUE? A TENACIOUS 
Net-head following helped put Spirit Creek over the top in Y-Life’s own On- 
line Music Awards last September, in the Best Unsigned Artist category. And 
ions of Spirit Creek's refreshingly uncompromised power pop are clear 
, Call the Rain, 


grunge parameters the band finds an array of varied melodic structures 


the pa: 


on the band’s new E 


vailable on its Web site. Within its post- 
from 


funky jangle to heavy balladry—with a vocal approach that ranges from death- 


m 


al growl to an almost country quaver. As crunchin’ as Creed (and v 


important), Spirit Creek is an online favorite composed of five decidedly 
ADAM McGOVERN 


sel 


ready-for-real-time players. Spirit Creek [spiritcreek.net] 


| _ Game Shorts — 


band plays Beatles-like on a rooftop, 
with passersby lip-synching below. As 
befits the group's cyberpopulism, the 
sound is endearingly electro-garage: 
infectious yet unpretentious post- 
Britpop (that's British pop, not 
Britneyish pop) that signals a land- 
mark in good taste as well as high 
tech. AM. &&* 
co.uk/esp.html] 


[www.softparade. 


TONY HAWK'S PRO SKATER 3 This 
critically acclaimed skateboarding 
sequel also happens to be the first 
Net-ready PlayStation 2 title. Simply 
connect a USB Ethernet adapter to 
play against online opponents. Skate 
as the legendary Tony Hawk, as 
another well-known skater, or as a 
custom thrasher you create. The goal 
is to pull tricks and tough combo 
moves in locations including skate 
parks in the U.S., Canada, and Tokyo, 
MS. * * * * [activisiono2.com/ 
tony_hawkl ($49.99) 


INCRIMINATI We've all had that tense 
teenage moment: The folks come home 
earlier than expected, and you've got 
seconds to hide the contraband before 
they barge into the room. Relive the 
memories with this online game in 
which players drag and drop vodka bot- 
tles, condoms, handcuffs, and a blitzed 
friend into clever hiding places before 
the door swings open. MS. * & * 
[seethru.co.uk/games/incriminati] (Free) 


THE CONTENT COMMITTEE: 
NAN MOONEY, MARC SALTZMAN 


ADAM MCGOVERN, 


————— sons See 


THU 


JOBS CONFERENCE, 11:30 p.m. THE A-LIST WITH ANTHONY 
‘A CAREER TO LOVE ETALKCITY.COM/ FRI pecurnis, 2 em. ROCK TALK 
BIZCITY/BCC-CS.SHTML} | IGETMUSIC.COM/SHOWS/ALIST} 


| 


SAT 


DECORATING STUDIO CHAT, 7 p.m. 
IMPROVING INTERIORS 
IDECORATINGSTUDIO.COM/CHAT ROOM.HTMI 


www.yil.com » March 2002 


41 


VICTORY 


OVER VCR 


Just like earlier ReplayTV or TiVo models, the ReplayTV 4000 records hours 
and hours of shows to its hard drive, lets you pause live TV, and allows 
you to pick and choose from its on-screen program guide. But this baby's 
broadband connection makes last year's models look Paleolithic. Share 
recorded shows among several ReplayTVs on a home network, send 
your favorite Seinfeld episode to a friend who also has a ReplayTV 4000, 
and download shows from the Net. $699 to $1,999 [replaytv.com] 


1 OF OKO 


SONGS TO GO 


The flurry of excitement about Apple's iPod is justified. The 6.5-ounce MP3 
player has a 5GB drive (that's enough space for 80-plus hours of music), and 
its Apple iTunes 2 software synchronizes with the digital music you've collected 
‘on your Mac. The iPod has a 10-hour battery life and recharges itself while 
connected to your Mac. And the navigational wheel that guides you through 
your music is a stroke of genius. The worst thing to be said about the iPod is 
that it works only with Macs—at least for now. $399 [apple.com/ipod] 


BEACH BLANKET TURBO 


Summer can't be too far off if the latest personal watercraft are start- 
ing to roar onto the scene. The three-person Yamaha WaveRunner 
FX140 has a four-cylinder, 140-horsepower motor that's powerful 
enough to tow a water-skier or wakeboarder. It runs 86 percent cleaner 
than conventional two-stroke engines (surpassing all federal emis- 
sions standards), letting you jump the waves and be environmentally 
friendly at the same time. $9,499 [www.yamaha-motor.com] 


wwwyil.com » March 2002 


» 
P| 
of; 
(= 
a 
a 
| 
3 
Cc 
is} 
UD 
> 
Oo 


43 


You can experience digital video in a whole new way. 
Introducing Microsoft® Windows® XP, the software that 
lets you get more out of digital video than you ever 
dreamed. Just plug your video camera into your PC, 
then capture, edit, and add your own music, narration, 
and effects. Then post your movie to the Web, or e-mail 
it to share with family and friends. All easily, the very 
first time. Take what you thought your PC could do, 
and throw it to the wind. With Windows XP, you can. 
www.microsoft.com/windowsxp. 


~ Use of: some features may ‘require Intemet or network access and purchase of additional hardware. © 2002 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. 
Aifrouon. vedo ‘apd the Windows logo are either reg'stered trademarks or trademarks Of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other counties. 


DIG THIS FOSSIL 


PDAs were invented so you wouldn't have to lug a computer around 
simply to check your address book or schedule. The Fossil Wrist PDA 
was invented so you won't even have to lug your PDA. Use a Palm 
or Pocket PC-based organizer to beam the latest data to the watch 
via infrared, and you're good to go. Take a mix of contacts, appoint- 
ments (with daily, weekly, and even teeny tiny monthly views), to-do 
list items, and memos wherever you go. $145 [fossil.com/pdal 


46 Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


cool 


AN AIBO WITH ATTITUDE 


The Sony Aibo ERS-220 has a Terminator look and brains to 
match. More than a toy, the latest iteration of the synthetic 
dog can be custom-configured to patrol your house and send 
back streaming video images via a wireless network, shoot 
digital photos (triggered by a motion detector), and move 
in ways that you choreograph and recall with a voice com- 
mand. New software lets Aibo either learn by experience or 
emerge from the box behaving like a mature canine. You can 
even change the sound of Aibo's footsteps (try Boost mode 
to give prowlers a good scare). $1,500 [www.us.aibo.com] 


ALL-AROUND FLAT 


The relatively high price of a flat-panel display seems more reason- 
able if you can use the screen for more than just your computer. 
The sleek, 17-inch Samsung 171MP monitor has an optional high- 
definition TV tuner that lets you use it as a television. Keep an eye on 
CNBC while doing your day's work with the Picture in Picture feature. 
A170-degree viewing angle means the image doesn't fade when you 
view it from the side. $1,399 [samsungusa.com/monitor] 


Davig Fantle 


Hunesvilfe, UT 


CONGRATULATIONS TO THE WINNERS OF THE 


Minolta Photo Travel Challenge 


We asked our readers to send us their best family, adventure and world 
travel photos. We would like to thank all of you who submitted photos, 
we received an overwhelming response. It was a challenge to select just 
three. Congratulations to our winners: Robert Forgas of Bloomington, IN, 
David Fantle of Huntsville, UT, and Stephen Mellert of New York, NY. 
Here's what their photos won for them: 


“ FAMILY TRAVEL PRIZE 
Beaches Turks & Caicos Resort & Spa, the Caribbean’s #1 Ultra All-Inclusive Resort 


“y ADVENTURE TRAVEL PRIZE 
An escape to Baja California with Mountain Travel*Sobek, the Adventure Company 


WORLD TRAVEL PRIZE 
A Visit to the Cultural Splendors of Belgium: Brussels and Bruges 


Winning Photos from the Incomparable Minolta DIMAGE 7 


Taking great pictures and sharing them over the Internet is 
easier than ever with the Minolta DIMAGE 7, the award-winning 
camera that sets new standards in the anytime, anywhere magic 
of digital photography. 


Only Minolta, the worldwide leader in imaging technologies, could 

have developed this innovative new camera. The revolutionary MINOUA 
DIMAGE 7 combines the high quality performance of traditional 

photography with the immediacy and speed of digital technology. 

The Minolta DIMAGE7 And all at a very affordable price. The essentials of imaging 


webuser 


TO GET THE MOST NET IN THE 


find it 
DISCOVER THE MANY VIRTUES OF CREATING A 
WIRELESS NETWORK ON THE FLY 


It’s easy to feel daunted by the world of wireless networking. Even 
without wires, it’s a tangle. And just when you think you've worked 
up the courage to set up an 802.11b (Wi-Fi) network at home, along 
comes a new buzzword—Bluetooth—to confuse the issue. 
Bluetooth? Yep. Originally developed as a way for wireless 
headsets to communicate with telephones, this radio-based 
protocol has a range of about 30 feet. Any Bluetooth-enabled 
gadget in a room can automatically find and communicate with 
any other nearby Bluetooth device at up to 1Mbps. Bring a 
Bluetooth laptop into a room with a Bluetooth printer, and you 
can print without any cables. Put a Bluetooth camera in a room 
with a Bluetooth PC, and you can download your photos, no wires 


needed. If all members of a meeting are Bluetooth-equipped, they 


can effortlessly pass data files around the conference room. 


Sounds like a good solution for a wireless network, right? Wrong, 
With its relatively short range and slow speed, Bluetooth is not 
and was never meant to be a way to build a wireless office or home 
network. Those transfer data 10 times as fast and over far greater 
distances. Bluetooth’s main purpose is to eliminate cables and let 
portable devices move files among them more easily. 

After a long time getting off the ground, Bluetooth is finally 
emerging as a standard feature in some peripherals, such as the 
$400 HP Des 


book PCs, such as Toshiba's Portégé 4000 and Tecra 9000. For 


kJet 995¢ printer, and as an option on some note- 


about $150, several companies (for example, 3Com [3com.com]) 


AST TIME 


make antenna-equipped Bluetooth adapters for notebook and 


desktop PCs, in USB or PC Card formats. Palm is designing a 
Bluetooth case into which you can snap a Palm Vx for printing 
directly from the Palm. Add a Bluetooth cell phone to the mix, 
and syncing contacts among PC, Palm, and phone will be as 
easy as walking into a room and hitting one button. Having the 


blues isn’t nearly as sad as it used to be. 


EDITED BY DON WILLMOTT 


Quick tips 


SPACE ACE 
| Surfers who download too many MP3 
files or game demos are familiar with 
the message “Hard disk is low on 
space.” When this warning pops up, 
turn to UltraSoft: Space Odyssey 
Iwww.ultrasoft.ro/page_so.html, a 


free utility that helps clear up room on 
bloated PCs. The software hunts down 
and eliminates useless programs 
that Windows' Add/Remove function 
may have missed and suggests files 
that can be deleted or compressed 
without harming other programs. __ 


THE “FILE” FILE 

Most people know the difference be- 
tween an .mp3and a jpg file, but what 
about a .bit or a .zap file? Fortunately, 
all of the mysteries of file extensions 
are answered at the comprehensive 
Whatis.com: Every File Format in 
the World [whatis.techtarget.com/ 
fileFormatAl. _ 


IT’S A STRETCH 

Feeling cramped? Need a little 
breathing room in your browser? 
Give Microsoft Explorer extra screen 
space by hitting the F11 key. To return 
the browser back to its normal size, 
simply hit the F11 key again, or click 
the restore icon in the browser's up- 
per right-hand corner. 


eS ED 


48 Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


RON KRISELIGETTY IMAGES. 


FUNKY FONTS AND TALKING E-MAIL: ADD SOME 
LIFE TO YOUR ONLINE CORRESPONDENCE 


*° Taking E-mail 3.0 - UNREGISTERED V 


Wsting For New Mereone a, 


Naot 


FANCY TALK 
Electronic messages 
geta voice with | 
Talking E-mail and =§_[ 
Spotlife (far right). (ie 


Hv Ems 
(psx 


Video messaging, long a staple of sci-fi cinema, is now available 
here on earth, and almost anyone with a Web cam and a micro- 
phone can use it. AT&T WorldNet Service [www.att.netl, for exam- 
ple, provides video e-mail to subscribers, letting surfers record 
and send up to 300 minutes of video e-mail per month, Yahoo! 
Mail [mail yahoo.com] has also added video mail. Access the free 
feature by opening a new composition window, scrolling to the 
bottom of the page, and clicking the Video: Add link to launch 
the recording applet. Recipients access your creation by clicking 
ona link embedded in your e-mail. You're allowed to have thirty 
30-second clips “active” at any time, and everyone must have 
Windows 98SE, ME, or 2000, along with Internet Explorer 5.01 
or Netscape Navigator 4.7 or later (except 6). Need more space 
to express yourself? Go to SpotLife [spotlife.coml, the site that pow- 


ace, live video 


ers Yahoo!’s video mail. It offers video storage s 
capability, and more, for anywhere between $2.99 and $99.99 
per month, depending on your needs. Do-it-yourselfer PC 
users should check out Digital Media Works: VideoMail Studio 
[videomailstudio.coml, a free program that uses a PC’s video 
capture card to create video messages, which are then sent as 
attachments (in AVI format) to recipients. Video Mail Studio is 
compatible with systems running Windows 95, 98, NTT, or 2000. 


Sr gE 


Readly to Record, Use the Record 
button to begin recording your 
video. 


| 
| O ? touch up your mail 
e ? 


It’s easy for irony, sarcasm, and jokiness to get lost in e-mail be- 
cause electronic messages lack a tone of voice. Address that prob- 
lem with IncrediMail lincredimail.coml, an e-mail program that lets 
you add 3-D effects, backgrounds, and even voice recording 
to messages. Recipients don’t need special software to view 
your IncrediMail messages, but some e-mail clients don’t work 


with the program. (AOL users can view IncrediMail e-mails only 


as attachments, for example.) The ad-supported software is free, 
but if you want to create personalized, reusable stationery for 
your e-mail, you'll need to shell out $39.95 for the Letter 
Creator software. IncrediMail works with systems running Win- 
dows 95, 98, NT, 2000, or XP and Internet Explorer 4.x or later. 


O 3 make your in-box talk 
e 4 : a 


Okay, so there’s no pressing reason to download 4Developers: 
Talking E-mail [4dev.com/talkmaill, but it sure is cool. When new 
e-mail arrives in your in-box, the PC-only software launches 
cartoon character pop-ups (such as an animated wizard) that 
read your messages aloud. The program works with most POP3 
e-mail accounts, including Yahoo! Mail. Talking E-mail is free to 


try for 14 days and costs $19.95 to register. ROB BERNSTEIN 


www.yil.com > March 2002 


49 


SCHEDULE YOUR E-MAIL DELIVERIES; 
POWER SEARCH WITH GOOGLE 


Q)»? Is there a way to delay the delivery of e-mail 
in Outlook Express? 

A» Yes, and a handy thing it is, too. I’ve auto- 
mated it to send out birthday greetings to all of 
my family members because | never remember 
to send cards, (It may not be sentimental, but it 
keeps me out of hot water.) Just write your e-mail 
normally. Then, before you send it, click the Op- 
tions button in the composition window, or go 
to View: Options. This will launch the Message 
Options window, where you can instruct Out- 
look Express to deliver your message hours, days, 
or even years later. Simply check the “Do not 
deliver before” box and select a future delivery 
time. Those of you who don't use an e-mail service 
or program with this feature should click over to 
EmailAlibi.com. The site lets surfers send time- 
delayed messages via the Web using their regu- 
lar e-mail address as the return address. 


Q)? | think Google is the best search engine, but it sometimes returns 
way too many results. Do you have any tricks for honing queries? 

A»? Check out Google's expert search features, which can be 
accessed by clicking the Advanced Search link beside the query 
field. Here, surfers can focus queries by domain and date 
of publication and can hunt down sites written in any of 27 
languages. Even better are Google's advanced operators, which 
are commands that modify your se 


arches, For instance, when 
you type filetype: pdf at the end of a query, the site will return 
listings only of Adobe Acrobat (pdf) files. A complete list of 
advanced operators, with explanations, can be found at 
Google: Advanced Search Operators [google.com/help/operators.htmll. 


Q))? I'm researching medical information, and | don't know whether a 
site is current. How can | find out when the page was last updated? 


A)? If you use Internet Explorer, go to the site in question 
and type the following command into the Address field: 
javascriptalert(documentlastModified), Hit Enter. A tiny win- 
dow will pop up and show you the last time the page was mod- 
ified. In Netscape Navigator 6.1, you can gather information 
about a Web page by typing [Ctrl + I]; however, in my expe- 
rience, the browser's “Last Modified” information is totally 
unreliable. And, of course, just because a site has been updated 
doesn’t mean it’s accurate. | recommend sticking with reliable 
health sites such as WebMD [webmd.com]. 


EDDIE BOWEN/WWW.COSMO7.COM 


ol watch 


Because you suspect your child is chat- 
ting with strangers online. Because 


records AOL, AIM, ICQ, and 
Yahoo! Messenger chats. The 
PC-only program can also be 
used to capture e-mail corre- 


software editions are avail- 
able for AOL versions 4, 5, 
6, and 7. Blackbox is free to 
try for 10 boots and costs be- 


MORE GURU 
FOR DAILY TIPS 
AND ADVICE, 
SURF OVER TO. 


nosy. All are good reasons to down- — 
load and install Blackbox for AOL from 


you believe your spouse may have a Cablehead Software [cablehead.coml, spondence and sniff outa MECC tween $23 and $3995 to buy, 
i .. Because you're just really a “stealth monitorina" application tha’ er's trail of sites viewed. The d he version 


LSE | 


50 Yahoo! Internet Life »March 2002 


6:H1 p.m. 


thai shrimp kebabs 


cucumber satad 


JASMine rice 


chai tea Latte 


EAT wWHAr YOu 


wi 
AEN You are troLy hungry, 


S 
top When You're fur, And 


9] 


B Nationar Eating Disordeys A 
v ders Association 


See 


melissa joan hart for N.E.D.A. © 2001 


WANT_ 


IN CYBERSPACE 
_ IS A PERFOR 


| A shelf id my office displays my L.C. Smith typewriter. It’s 
i an old machine, 


j I used itwhen I edited my college newspaper, then boug! 
it for/$i0 and took it with me. Until 1977, virtually every 


kind you see in 1930s newspaper movies. 


word Iw rote was a on Aue machines or its cousins—the 


oe 
ina 
8 
o 
=} 
; 
oe 
i=] 
3 
8 
Bey 
ce 
a 
& 
g 
ce] 
Oey 
z 


he 
t's just so klutzy. M Ps have to tr ‘cl so far and work 
so hard to depress a key. You have to manually return the 
‘artiage at the end.ofevery linehYou have to hit the Tab key 

to indent. My fingers are no longer trained to hold down the 
| Shift key: I do, however, like the bell that rings to tell me I’m 


approaching the margin. But of course 
onacomputer I don’t need a bell be- 
cause of automatic line-wraps. (Old 

| habits die hard: At the end of a para- 

| graph, even today, I still catch myself 
hitting Return and then Tab.) 


it seems 


There was a time when I thought 


i writing and typing were the same thing. like a ublic space. 

| Countless voices 
have appeared 
on it—yours, if 

you've e-mailed me 


It was 25 years ago this year that I sat 
down at my first computer keyboard, 
one of the clunky old Atex terminals 
i the Chicago Sun-Times had installed. I 
had an hour's instruction, and then I 
started writing, initially uneasy at how 
quickly the keys responded, disori- 
ented a little that the lines wrapped themselves. 
Within a week, probably less, I knew I could never go 
j back to a typewriter. Until I bought that first DEC Rain- 
| bow in the early 1980s, and the Tandy 100 to take on the 
road, I did all of my writing on Atex. The old L.C. Smith 
sat ignored, except for addressing envelopes. Since then, on 
a series of computers, I have written so many words that 
; the act of writing and the act of word processing have be- 
| come the same thing. I realized that the computer keyboard 
| is now an extension of my mind. 
Over that quarter century, something else—something fun- 


52 Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


Because the 
monitor serves so 
many purposes, 


RITING 
ANCE 


damental—has changed about my writing. Sitting at a type- 
writer (in my high school bedroom, my college fraternity room, 
my rented Chicago apartment), I was acutely alone. I was the 
solitary writer, alone with my thoughts and my machine. 

Now my words are displayed on a computer monitor. Not 
the little monitor of the old Tandy or the all-text XyWrite in- 
terface of the Rainbow, but an Apple Video Display that is 19 
inches from side to side. This is the same monitor upon which 
I surf the Web, read and answer e-mail, watch DVDs, and 
keep my daily calendar. It is the arena of my cyberworld. 

Because the monitor serves so many purposes, it seems to 
me like a public space. Countless voices have appeared on it— 
including yours, if you've e-mailed me. Typing on this moni- 
tor is subtly different from typing on a piece of paper on the 
L.C. Smith. That was a solitary act 
This is more like a performance. 

In some imaginary sense, you are 
reading this right now, even as I write 
it. I have keyboarded in so many 
o me e-mails, so many forum messages, so 
many arguments and replies, that I 
instinctively think of this activity as 
a conversation. I do not write it and 
then send it forth, as I did with paper 
and a typewriter. To write it on a mon- 
itor is somehow to create it publicly. 

Does this change the way I write, 
and affect my writer's voice? Possi- 
bly. It may make me less formal, more 
conversational. I may anticipate your objections and try to 
answer them, instead of remaining in magisterial solitude. 

In a closet I have piles of yellowing newspaper pages— 
tear sheets of hundreds or thousands of Sun-Times articles. 
At some point (I didn’t even notice at the time) I stopped 
saving them. I no longer needed the tear sheets, because 
I had the digital files. Because this was not a conscious 
decision, it must have been a reflection of a 


CONTINUE 
THE DISCUSSION 
ONLINE AT 


deeper reality. I am in cyberspace with you per- 
manently now. Why would I bring my tear 


YIL.COM/ 
EBERT 


sheets along? = 


PAUL ELLEDGE 


(2a) 
ate ls 


$ 
% \ 
teary 
» 


54 


HOW TO GET HIT ON 
BUT NOT KISSED 


Q: My friend sent me alink,from Ananova [ananova.com/news/ 
story/sm_468085.html?menu=l about clicking on the Web site 
of some German guy named Kai to get hi 


s hit count up. Ap- 


parently, if he gets 111,111,111 hits, then his friend Julia will sleep 
With him. My friend told me to do it, but should I? What does 
this guy’s social life have to do with me, ethically speaking? 

Az I’m not convinced at press time that thi 


site isn’t a hoax, 
but no matter—cthicists deal in hypotheticals all the time. 
Speaking in hypotheticals (because we're a respectable 
magazine and we're not going to speculate on the sex lives 
of teenagers), thisds a situation in which by other people 
doing something on belialfGfperson A, person B will be 
obliged to do something. While most normal folks call this 


“voting,” according to Kai and supporters of their 


strange little sex comedy, this is known 


as “courtship.” And people say the | hy 

Net destroys your social life, op 
Assuming there's no other barrier 

to Kai 


they're not related to one another, 


and Julia sleeping together 


they're not married to other people, 
and so on—there’s no reason they 
can’t make a bet like this. I hope, by 
the way, that Miss Julia didn’t think 
that imposing this 111,111,111 mandate 


was an effective not-if-you-were-the- 


ven from 


last-man-on-earth blowoff. 


here I can see that Kai is the kind of 


young man who loves a challenge. 


Prurient interest aside—and who knows, maybe someone 


will manage to actually put it aside one of these days—you're 
not pushing an unwilling damsel into a fate worse than death 
here. She made the bet freely, and by being one among so many 
clicks, you're doing something with less ethical ignominy at- 
tached to it than, say, a celebrity endorsing a product he’s never 
used in his life. By not clicking, you're tacitly acknowledging 
that this is an entirely silly site and, quite possibly, yet another 
poorly executed Web hoax (for more on Net scams, see page 
74). Works for me; if Kai wants my vote, Julia isn’t the only 
female he's going to have to charm 


Yahoo! Internet Life » March 2002 


J hope that 
Miss Julia didn't 
think that a 
111,111,111 
click mandate was 
an effective not-if- 
you-were-the-last- 
man-on-earth 
blowoff 


Q: I have been Secretly Kissed! What is this, and how do I re- 
spond? What if it’s someone I don’t like? 


A: Sites such as this one that purport to hook up mutual 
nes may look innocuous, but they're a bad idea. Though 


cr 


they seem to offer an embarrassment-free form of match- 
making, they can make for awkward situations—and let’s not 
forget the high potential for abuse. 

The sites work like this; One person puts in the name 
and e-mail address of that special someone she’s crushing 
on. The crushee gets an e-mail notification, along with a 
link to the site. Once at the site, the admired one is asked 
to speculate on who the smitten party might be. If the recip- 
ient guesses right, romance blooms. If the recipient guesses 
wrong, the sender simply doesn’t hear back. 

Sounds harmless, but imagine your 
busybody friend (yes, you've got one) 
trying to get two uninterested folk in- 
terested in one another by telling each 
that the other is interested. Imagine 
this person doing so to cause mischief. 
Imagine getting a note from “Mark” 
when the name of your boss is Mark— 
sexual harassment at worst, workplace 
weirdness at best. Now imagine go- 
ing ona fishing expedition at the site, 
listing all the Marks you know and 
waiting to see which one answers. In 
this case, Mark-your-boss gets a kissy 
e-mail, which exposes you to harass- 


ment allegations. Sometimes ignorance really is bliss. 

Most important, you don’t know what else they're doing with 
the addresses they collect at these sites, so you may be unwit- 
tingly exposing your would-be honey to spam as a result of your 
little infatuation. AOL users should be particularly wary, as a 
recently uncovered scam requests that the kissee give up not 
only his e-mail address but also his password to find out who's 
hot for him. On the whole, these sites are less like Troo Luuy 


and more like a particularly disastrous blind date. = 


Right? Wrong? Write: angela_gunn@ziffdavis.com 


JAY GULLIXSON 


BLAKE LITTLE 


decision that could be as momentous 


ALLELUJAH! MICROSOFT 
SEES THE LIGHT 


For now, the pendulum has swung back toward online pri- 
yacy, and not a moment too soon, Bill Gates has made a 
s the one he mad: 


years ago, whenshe ordered everyone in the company to 
change diréétion at once to focus on the Internet. This time 
he’s concerned with one of the most important consequences 
of that six-year-old decision: your security and privacy. Ina 
long overdue move, Gates boldly shut down all Microsoft 


software development in February while his 7.000 systems 
programmers underwent security sensitivity training. Further- 
more, his programmers were told “not to write any new line 
of codeuntil they have thought out the security implications.” 
Readers of this column know that I am hardly credulous 
when it comes to the computer industry's promises to police 
itself on matters of consumer pri- 
vacy. But that memo from Gates to 
nearly 50,000 Microsoft employees 
was disarming, It argues compellingly 
that without stringent privacy pro- 
tection, the Internet as a commercial 
entity will wither on the vine. rimar 
P 
men 


The Gates endorsement of what he 
brands “trustworthy computing” means 
that he recognizes that the operating 
system of the Internet is a public util- 
ity whose reliability and security should 


be guaranteed, something we con- 
sumers can take for granted. As Gates 


putit in his e-mail 
puting is computing that is as available, reliable, and secure as 
and telephony.” 


“Trustworthy Com- 


electricity, water serv 

Necessity being the mother of invention, Gates has been 
forced to recognize that computer security is the primary re- 
quirement for his vision of a fully Net-integrated company. 
As he noted in January's memo, “Over the last year, it has be- 
come clear that ensuring NET asa platform for trustworthy 
computing is more important than any other part of our work. 
If we don’t do this, people simply won’t be willing—or 
able—to take advantage of the other great work we do.” 

Last year saw a frightening increase in the number of com- 


Gates has been 
forced to recognize 
that computer 
security is the 


for his 

vision of a full 

Net-integrate 
company 


puter invasions—more than twice as many as in the previous 
year—including the Code Red and Nimda worms, which in- 


fested Microsoft products and cost consumers billions of dol- 


lars, Dramatic proof that the problem was getting worse came 


with the now-infamous security hole in Microsoft’s brave new 


Windows XP operating system; that one was bad enough to 


earn it a warning from the FBI. And its Passport technology, 
designed to hold our most vital data (to allow for easy Internet 
cruising and commerce), was found to have a flaw permitting 
hackers to rob Passport's credit card numbers and other data. 


Of course, concern for the user is not the only reason for 


these virtuous actions. For the first time there is 


areal prospect 
of legislation holding the computer industry open to the same 
sort of product liability lawsuits that have forced others, such 
as automobile manufacturers, to shape 
up. People who had suffered adverse 
consequences because their data had 
been stolen or destroyed might be able 
to sue software suppliers whose de- 


signs, either by carelessness, | 


te, 
° or commercial expediency, had left 
require- the door open to intruders. 
But Gates is also acknowledging 
that the real cost of irresponsible se- 


is a loss of consumer 


curity practic 
confidence—one that is too high a 
Mi- 


crosoft, in its eagerness to sell us ever- 


price for his company to pay. 


newer tools and toys, has long been 

remiss in protecting us. But if Gates really forces his com- 

pany to focus on a new goal, as he has successfully done in 
the past, there is hope that will now change. 

“Users should be in control of how their data is used,” Gates 

wrote, or “the dreams about e-business that have been hyped 

over the last few years” will never become a reality. For Mi- 


about e-com- 


crosoft, what’s at stake is more than “dream 
merce; it’s the company’s very dominance of the marketplace. 


That’s why I think we can trust Bill on this one. # 


Aseem Batra [aseembatra@hotmail.com] contributed to this column. 


www.yil.com >» March 2002 


55 


\ 
. — 


For real fans, there 

ain't nothing like the Net. 
How did basketball become 
the most wired game in town? 
Click by click 


t was the slam heard 
round the world—the wired 
world, that is. During the 
second half of yet another 
ho-hum drubbing by the 2000 
U.S. men's Olympic basket- 
ball team, Vince Carter inter- 
cepted a pass, raced toward 
the basket, and hurdled com- 
pletely over the head of 
France's 7-foot-2-inch center | 
Frederic Weis before dunking | 
the ball—in the process, he 
gave a whole new meaning to | 
the term /eapfrog. Carter's | 
Olympic teammate Jason Kidd | 
called it not just the great- | 
est dunk in basketball history, 
but “the greatest play in bas- 
ketball I've ever seen.” Still, 
if you didn't have a browser, | 
you had a hard time seeing 
that slam at all. 

Thanks to the sheer mad- 

ss of NBC's tape-delayed 
Bverage of the 2000 Summer 
lympics, finding that play on 
elevision was harder than 
tting your hands on the 
ginal Zapruder tapes. But on 


night game in Sydney is a morning game in the U.S., so in offices’ 
throughout America, T-1 lines were glutted with replays of Carter's, 
brazen dunk. And on that day, the Internet arguably eclipsed televi-| 
sion as the medium of choice for obsessive hoops fans. | 

Since then, basketball and the Net have become as inseparable as, 
Phil Jackson and the triangle offense. And with good reason.) 
“Basketball is a unique blend of a visual sport and a stat-driven sport, 
and that makes for a compelling online experience,” says Brenda 
Spoonemore, vice president of Internet services for NBA Entertain-, 
ment. Case in point: NBA.com delivered nearly 3 million video streams 
to its more than 26 million visitors in November 2001 alone—a 400) 
percent increase from the previous year, and a clear sign that frame) 
rates have finally caught up with basketball’s frenetic pace. 

“Between highlights, photos, fantasy leagues, and real-time scores, 


the NBA's got a mixture of everything,” Spoonemore says. “Some of} 


the other major sports [sites] excel at one of those aspects, but they 
don’t have the whole package that basketball does.” 


Granted, she’s paid to say that, but consider: Have you ever watched, 
a baseball highlight online? Ever organized a College Bow! office pool? 
Ever played in a fantasy hockey league? Exactly. But if you haven't done} 
the basketball equivalent of any of those, you're either a closet Lud-) 


dite or you're not a properly crazed basketball fan. 
Or perhaps you just didn’t know the right sites. Now you will. 


GO TO THE VIDEOTAPE rhe Buggles were right: Video} 
did kill the radio star—but it also gave birth to the modern NBA. If) 
not for highlights of tomahawk slams, would African bushmen really, 
be wearing Michael Jordan jerseys? Still, if you're an obsessive sports| 
freak, you may have sensed a bit of déja vu; game highlights, even on! 
different networks, are often identical. That’s because most news and 


sports shows use satellite services that beam the same clips to shows| 


around the world, So your compulsive nightly highlight-viewing habit) 
means you suffer the same mundane Stockton-to-Malone pick-and- 
roll again and again and again. | 

Is this a sign to flee the house and start living life? No! It’s a sign 
that you need better basketball highlights. Thankfully, NBA.com is) 
here for you. With unrestricted rights to every NBA broadcast, the) 
site offers five minutes of narrated video highlights from each game, 
more than 10 times your average highlight serving. The clips are 
even updated every 30 minutes—all night long—so you can literally’ 
watch the highlights unfurl before your very eyes. It’s an embarrass- 
ment of basketball riches, and one that presumably will have those 
bushmen getting broadband any day now. | 


START THE MADNESS Remember back when the chief skill] 


for organizing an NCAA pool was the ability to construct a tournament 
bracket using graph paper and a protractor? Uh, yeah, neither do we. To- 
day, dozens of sites offer basic printable brackets, and several allow you 
to organize your entire pool online. But for our money, you can't go wrong, 
with the ESPN Tournament Challenge page at MSN: ESPN [espn.coml. 
Its free, simple interface allows you to construct your pool in minutes, 


ensuring that in no time your coworkers will see you as a skillful social 
leader—or the guy harassing them for their $10 entry fee. 

But let's not get ahead of ourselves. Before you put your money] 
where your mouse is, you need to take the Internet's greatest college 


basketball crash course at FinalFour.net. (Don't even pretend like you 


| 
|know the difference between the starting backcourts of Xavier and 
jlona.) Download its constantly updating and eerily hypnotic 
'64-team desktop bracket, offering interactive rosters, pregame 
‘matchups, team/player stat comparisons, television schedules, 
| TotalCast replays, and game summaries, breakdowns, and logs. If 
‘that’s not enough for you, head directly to FansOnly [fansonly.coml, 
| the most solid year-round purveyor of college hoops minutiae. 


TRACK THE PERSONAL FOULS If you think half the 


|fun of sports comes from watching overpaid, overindulgent 
physical freaks wreak havoc on our communities and flaunt our 
nation’s laws and values, then basketball is your game! And no medium 
delivers that kind of tawdry sensationalism with the speed and 
vitality of the Internet. 

Start your scofflaw search with JerkOfTheWeek.com, the site 
nice guys finish last.” JerkOfThe Week doesn’t think scandal 


where 
sare 
ruining sport; it’s turned scandal into sport. Head to the basketball 
channel to track your favorite college and pro ne’er-do-wells as they 
receive weekly points for paternity suits, felony charges, and other ac- 


tions unbecoming to an adult. Lamar Odom failed his drug test? That's 
worth four Jerk Points—a nice number as he vies for the not-so- 


coveted title of Basketball Jerk of the Year. 


Remember the ABA 


www.remembertheaba.com 


on 
qo) 


Ifyou can identify any o| 
(click on the players to 
blue" league: the defu 


The ABA existed from 1 
ABA fought a bitter war 


NBA) for players, fans, 
leagues finally made p| 
Vi 4 


0? 
What's New 


(updated September 24, 2001) 


However, the ABA is st 
“outlaw' league with th 
aftos. It was the "lively' 
“home run” of basketb: 
returned) modern profé 
Dallas, Salt Lake City, 


Itfeatu 


*ABA Team Histories & Fan 
Memories 


red dazzling abo 
ns_Georae (Ice 
RELIVE THE PAST AT REMEMBER THE ABA [REMEMBERTHEABA.COM] (ABOVE), 

OR TRACK MICHAEL JORDAN'S RETURN TO THE NBA AT MSN: ESPN'S AIRGAUGE 
ISPORTS.ESPN.GO.COM/NBA/AIRGAUGE/INDEX] (OPPOSITE PAGE) 


Not as nasty as you wanna be? Peruse the offerings at The Way 
We Hear It from Basketball News [basketballnews.coml. Juicier than 
|the sanitized fare of your more corporate sports sites, “the way they 
|hear it” sounds like they heard it on a chain gang, Read about for- 
‘mer Knicks coach Jeff Van Gundy repeatedly deriding his team’s 
|lack of “balls”—a sound bite that somehow failed to find its way onto 
\that night’s SportsCenter. Then try RealGM [realgm.coml, where you'll 
come for the delicious details of players’ salaries, team salary caps, 
4 ee = 


58 Yahoo! Internet Life » March 2002 


i] 
and transactions, but you'll stay (and stay) for the snarky reporting 
and edgy insights of the Furballs and Pump Fakes sections. Finally, 


cruise your patrol car to the InsideHoops.com Daily NBA Rumors 


page for dozens more scandals, gleaned from the dirtiest tidbits; 
found in local daily sports sections around the country. a 
whatever you do, just keep repeating this to yourself: These are) 
athletes—not role models. 


ESPN.com's 


YT me | SYSVSSSIIO 


ee, 
‘ 


TRACKING Wu's RETUR! 


BREATHE HIS AIRNESS Asking if Michael Jordan is big: 
ger than the game of basketball is like asking if Paul McCartney is big- 
ger than Wings. Given Jordan’s popularity, it’s surprising that there 
isn’t an entire cable network devoted to airing His Airness. But we do| 


have not one, but two online destinations devoted to providing a 


more than the recommended daily dose of Michael. MSN: ESPN.com's) 


AirGauge [sports.espn.go.com/nba/airgauge.index] and the Tracking 
Jordan page on SportingNews.com offer much of the same: Michael’s 
schedule, his performance, his stats, his record, his trivia, his quotes, his 
biorhythms, and his bowel movements. (Okay, we lied about those last 
two.) The AirGauge’s weekly Job Approval Rating and a chart com-| 
paring MJ with the NBA's young guns in every crucial stat (including| 
endorsements) make Jordan idolatry so much fun, you might actually! 
forgive the man for risking his legacy out of sheer boredom. But if you 
truly want to be like Mike—or learn how Mike can be like Mike again— 
head to the collection of Jordan’s basketball instructional videos found, 
at Yahoo! Sports: NBA Isports.yahoo.com/nba/news/yhoo/mvpindex.html]., 
There, you'll receive tutelage from MJ on everything from the crossover) 
dribble to how to jump higher. And that windmill-360-tomahawk jam? 
You'll have to figure that out for yourself. | 


HEAR THE BALL, BE THE BALL With all these video} 
highlights available, why settle for audio broadcasts of basketball, 


games? Because basketball plays far better on the radio than any other, 
sport, save possibly for golf. (Seriously. Don’t knock PGA Tour Radio 
[pgatourradio.coml until you've tried it.) With an NBA.com: Audio League 


Pass Inba.broadcast.com/audiolp] membership, you can hear every “For 
three...yes!” from every pro game. A word to the wise: At this point in 
the season, you're probably best off with a $9.95 monthly sneer] 
(as opposed to the $29.95 season pass). 

After the game, head to the audio channel at CBS SportsLine.com 
[sportsline.com] for postgame locker-room clichés from your favorite) 


stars. The ability to search by last name means you can listen to each 
| 


and every one of Stephon Marbury’s whining, self-righteous diatribes. 
‘When you've finally tired of such things, SportingNews.com’s Exclu- 
sive Audio clips offer lengthy and—dare we say—occasionally insightful 
interviews with the likes of Allen Iverson, Steve Smith, Tyson Chan- 
dler, and Antoine Walker. 


BE DICK VITALE Okay, so all these audio offerings are nice; 
‘but admit it: You know you could do better. Heck, if Bill Walton is 
qualified to broadcast basketball games, so are you. 

The services of FanCast [fancast.coml will put you in the broadcast 
booth. Register at FanCast, and with at least a 56K modem and a 
‘microphone hookup you, too, can experience the thrill of being 
Marv Albert (minus the garter belt). Sign up for free and you'll score 
‘two free FanPasses, each good for four hours of airtime on the site. 
‘Alert your friends and family, then deliver play-by-play broadcasts of 
your favorite hoops, or just blow hot air like Charles Barkley. Once 
youre hooked on the sound of your voice, prepare to fork over $250~$5 
per broadcast—or $39.95 for a month of unlimited yammering. 


a OW YOUR ‘FRO Docs your idea of “basketball history” 
onsist of grainy images of Bob Cousy, in tight little shorts, dribbling 
around the court with one hand? Then it’s time to save your rubber 
soul at Remember the ABA [remembertheaba.coml. Devoted to preserv- 
ing the history of the American Basketball Association—that funkadelic, 
upstart league of the '60s and ’70s—the site is a must for those not for- 
tunate enough to have witnessed the league's high-flying hoops and 
even higher Afros. (Given that the ABA received virtually no televi- 
sion coverage during its decade of existence, that's just about everyone.) 
Peruse the candidates for Biggest Hair in Basketball History, Get 
your polyester fix at the site’s Freewheeling Fashion gallery. Learn where 
to buy your very own red, white, and blue basketball. Then download 
ithe sound clips of such ABA stars as Dr. J, George “The Iceman” Gervin, 
Moses Malone, and Connie Hawkins—and be thankful the Internet ex- 
ists to replay the sound of the league that fell like a tree in the woods. 


RETREAT INTO YOUR LITTLE FANTASY WORLD 
‘When an online search for “fantasy basketball” yields 15 times as many 
matches as “naked Pamela Anderson,” it’s clear that fantasy hoops has 


achieved online cottage-industry status. But its popularity is also its 
rub—with 59500 Web matches on Google alone, how are you to know 
which fantasy is your fantasy? 

| The offerings at ESPN, SportsLine, CNN Sports Illustrated [cnnsi.coml, 
SportingNews, and Yahoo! Sports serve up roughly the same packages 
of stats, news, and scouting reports. But given that most leagues are 
already well under way, your choice is clear: The SportingNews: Fantasy 
mes [fantasygames.sportingnews.coml. While other leagues require 
complicated drafts, league selections, and entry fees, at the SportingNews 
you're automatically assigned to a league of 20 folks who are as late 
to the party as you are. Within five minutes, you'll be scouting the league, 


Snapple buzz. Within two days, you'll be fully addicted and trolling the 
Web for basketball updates. Not that much different from what you're 
probably ready doing—only now, you'll have a reason. 


fy Wenger, whose last contribution to Y-Life was “Taxicab Confessions” (June '01), 
writes frequently about sports. 


drafting your starting five, and dealing players like Mark Cuban on a 


www.yil.com > March 2002 59 


60 


Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


Basketball commissioner 


discusses NBA.com's 


great leap f d 


avid Stern can’t quite remem- 
ber who first called him “Digital Dave.” “I think it was [NBC Sports 
president] Dick Ebersol,” the NBA commissioner recalls, laughing, 


“but now we've changed it to CyberDave.” Yet by any name and any 


measure, Stern has led the National Basketball Association to its 


emergence as the world’s most Internet-savvy professional sports 
league, and he is still as optimistic about the Web as ever. 
And why shouldn't he be? With audio from every NBA game 


streamed live, a dazzling array of highlights available through the of- 


ficial NBA.com (which also has its own cable and satellite TV channel), 
and major new partnerships with RealNetworks, AOL, and Yahoo!, 


pro hoops has left the other leagues in the dust. The secret? Oppor- 


tunism and a willingnes 


s to experiment. 


Stern say 


We'll try anything, “We're in the process of doing 
it all, and we do it out of self-interest.” Sooner or later, the com- 
missioner knows, “something will work. But you never know 
what.” Sitting down with ¥- Life in his Manhattan offices, David Stern 
mused on the NBA's grand online experiment. 

The NBA was the first major pro sports league to truly embrace 
the Internet. Why was that? 


It was our old- 


ashioned way of thinking. For me, the In- 
ternet has always been a means of distribution. We understood early 


on that, however it evolved, more and more people were going to be 


involved in this medium. Everybody was saying, “Commerce, com- 
munity, content.” Content? I know that. Commerce? We're already 


in that business. Community? Is there any s 


ronger-linked commu- 


nity than sports fans? If that’s the selling proposition, that’s us. The 


WIRED COMMISH: STERN AT THE NBA.COM HEADQUARTERS IN NY. 


PETER FREED/CORBIS OUTLINE 


NBA's job has always been to move its product in front of its cont} 
sumers. The predominant way to do that went from radio to over- 
the-air television—both local and national—to cable, to satellite, 
to digital cable. And interestingly, none of these ever dropped off, 
So, the Internet is just the latest means of getting our content out. 
Y-LIFE Is there any tension between the means of distribution? 

STERN There's always tension, because if someone is listening to a 
game on the radio, they're probably not watching it on television. If 
they're watching it on cable, they're probably not watching it over 
the air, Some people do watch the game on TV while they're online, 
but when you think of these tiers, it’s like slicing the salami. Hov 
many times can you do it? There is a potential diminution across the 
board, But just as television wasn’t the demise of radio, and just as, 
VCRs have not brought the demise of TV, and just as TiVo has not 
brought the demise of prime-time TV, there will always be space. | 
Y-LIFE You got a lot of press when you Webcast a live Mavericks-Kings 
game. What did you learn from that experiment? | 
STERN First of all, that people from all over the world would actu- 
ally tune in to a not-very-good-fidelity view of our game. And that 
as high-speed delivery increases, there will be increasing pressure for 


the delivery of more and different products via high-speed access. 
Y-LIFE What about streaming more games? 
STERN We still see interactive as an augmenting approach, until it 


becomes something more profound and lucrative, because of the de- 


———— = 


‘on, or AOL, or [gaming company] Electronic Arts—to see the things 
hat they've excelled at doing. 

“LIFE So then what's the plan? What is the NBA going to be doing 

online two years, five years from now? 


‘STERN That's the beauty of it: There is no plan. (Laughs) We're op- 


portunistic when we see something that takes us a different way than | 


we had initially expected. Maybe a very small number of people want 
to play video games on their telephone or keep track of how many 
points Allen Iverson is scoring. But let's try it. Because out of all of 
this is going to come something that will be a profitable application. 
‘And then, when something works, you try new things with it. IFwe 
put quarterly highlights out and millions of people tune in, then we 
think, okay, would anyone like to see enhanced quarterly high- 
lights, maybe of a particular player, going to his left, on Tuesdays? 
We're in the process of doing it all, and we do it out of self-interest. 
Y-LIFE Don't you worry that foo many newfangled things might dis- 
tract from the actual experience of the game? 

N No because, at its basic level, the plan is to have the NBA, the 
NBA, and the National Basketball Development League keep pro- 
ducing great content, both current and archival, which is priceless. The 
mode of expression is neutral. And I guess I do believe in the trans- 
formative fan experience. The numbers started to rise—suddenly, 26 
million people were visiting our site, each for his or her own reason, 
and each for his or her own geography. It doesn’t matter because our 


I think that any f here in th id 
with the NBA, 24/7. You've got a question? 


should expect to be able to communicate 
We have an answer 


gree of our television relationships. Right now we're using NBA.co: 

more for the transmitting of information and highlights, ele 
materials, and statistics, but not game feeds in any substantial way. 
Y-LIFE What about internationally? You've streamed NBA games in 
South Korea, through Sportslive. 
STERN They were being streamed in sort of a “walled garden,” so 
that they didn’t get sent out to the immediate world. To the extent 


that the technology allows us to protect games in a given market, 
where people can’t get enough NBA, then we might try that. South, 
Korea is a place where we don’t have a television deal because of the 
turmoil in their TV industry. Outside the U.S., broadcasters are 
much more sensitive about these issues than they are even here. 
Y-LIFE Your approach to the Internet seems to be quite different from 
that of other industries, such as music. 

STERN We put things on NBA.com that we choose to put on NBA.com. 
The music industry was afraid of someone violating its copyrights, 
and that’s a position I agree with. When we put games over the air, 
somebody is paying us for those games. 

Y-LIFE Do you look to any other industries as models? 
STERN Not really. Remember, sports is a product that tends to lead 
industries because of the affinity that consumers have for it. So we're 
making our own judgments here. When you look at the opportuni- 
ties that present themselves, they seem to have been created for us, 
whether it’s fantasy games, video games, or streaming highlights at 


the quarter, But we do look at other companies—whether it’s Ama 


a 
job has always been to be there. I think that any fan, anywhere in the 
orld, should expect to be able to communicate with the NBA 24/7. 
You've got a question? We have an answer. If you purport to be global, 


you should be able to give your community the kind of service that im- 
‘plies. And I think we're not too far from that. 
\GLIFE Are you afraid of getting too far ahead? 
STERN Yes. We want to be able to surf here, but not necessarily out 
in front and then under the waves. That’s what burned some peo- 
ple. Another issue is investment. Yes, it's great that we're talking 
about capturing all the games, storing them, serving them in a 
‘secure way, and then charging for them. Tell me which companies 
have really stepped up to do that yet. We're very lucky in terms of 
the kind of people we've partnered up with: Paul Allen, Ted Leon- 
sis, Mark Cuban, Comcast, AOL Time Warner. 
Mere Along those lines, did the dot-com downturn affect your plans? 
TERN It made us feel better about certain decisions. We made a 
fundamental decision, despite our own optimism, that we would in- 


vest slowly but continuously, and that we wouldn’ttreat any expres- 


sion of our content as separate or apart from the NBA business. As 


\we watch various companies either give away their Web sites or shut 
them down, we feel that we made the right decision. Remember, the 
number of people online isn’t diminishing. The number of people 
pases more savvy with the technology isn’t diminishing. And all 


this growth is occurring internationally. So in terms of our universe, 
everything is bigger than it was before. = 


wwwyil.com > March 2002 61 


"if web addresses came to life 


"> or, thank heaven for literal URLs //PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEFAN NYVANG 


___www.fo.hell_with.just.one.carry-on.com 


www.time.to.settle.this.com 


ae 


y sus os 7 
Sal F 


www.who.knew.there.was.a.dress.code.com 


WWw.someone.didn't.visitthe.wWeenilaesannel.com 


gr 


a ae 


We've tested the new 
music subscription 
services. The result? 
They're not your 
daddy's Napster 


So you've decided to go legit. With Napster in a legal 
brethren- 


choke hold and its freewheeling, free-music 
Kazaa, MusicCity, and Grokster—under legal duress of 
their own, living the life of a rogue MP3 trader just isn't 
as carefree as it once was, Sure, there's still plenty of free 
out there, as our latestroundup reveals (see “Free 


s,” page 73), but with each passing month it gets harder 
to find—and comes with more strings attached. 


he battle for music on 


It’s time to face the facts: ° 
the Web has been fought and won. The five major 
record labels, which control 80 percent of the world’s 


music copyrights, are slowly, surely driving the illegal 
trade of MP3s underground. Last fall, federal agents 
to root out piracy 


raided dozens of college 


ampus 
and served some of the most active MP3 traders no- 
tice: Cool it or lose your broadband connection. 


In the meantime, the major labels have rolled out their 


own online music services, which pay license fees to la- 


bels, artists, and songwriters, With a half dozen or so of 

them now online, it seems to be as good a time as any to 

venture out, credit card in hand, and take them fora spin. 
But before we go, be warned: The new world of dig- 


ital music bears little resemblance to the halcyon days of 


Napster—wild and woolly file-sharing this ain't. First on 
the list of gripes: Only one of the services—E Music— 
offers songs in M P3 format or allows songs to be copied 


BY MICHAEL LEARMONTH 


toa portable player. And since different services provide songs in their 
own proprietary formats, expect some headaches while all the players 
figure out how to play all the music. Further compounding their flaws, 
none of the other services is Mac compatible, though all of them say 
they've got Mac software in the works. 

And let’s not forget that unlike the first iteration of Napster, 
the new digital music services were conceived as businesses. That 
means your happiness is about third on their list of priorities, behind 
making money and staying out of court. In short, digital music is 
about their agenda now, not yours. 

But the greatest drawback to all the new services is their limited 
libraries of available music. Even the two services with major-label 
backing, MusicNet (a system backed by BMG, EMI, Warner, and 
Zomba and licensed to several different services) and Pressplay (a 
stand-alone service run by Sony and Universal), have massive, almost 
comical holes in their repertoire. Want to hear U2? Forget about Mu- 
sicNet, The Dave Matthews Band? You won't find it on Pressplay. 

To be fair, the labels rushed these services to market and say they 
intend to both license larger catalogs of music and add more capa- 
bilities, Even their pitchmen admit that the new services are a work 
in progress. “It’s good enough to criticize,” says Rob Glaser, chairman 
and CEO of RealNetworks, about his company’s RealOne Music 
service, “It doesn’t have everything users want, but it is compelling.” 


Unlike the first iteration, 
of Napster, the new digital , 


music services were conceived 


as businesses. That means 
your happiness is about third 
on their list of priorities, 
behind making money and 
staying out of court 


Because it racked up some 80 million users in less than two years, 
the original Napster set the standard. But sweep away nostalgia and 
it’s easy to remember that the pioneer of song-swapping fell far short 
of perfection. While it was a great place to find stuff you already knew 
you liked, it didn’t help you discover new music in any organized way. 
Plus, once you found something on a random hard drive in Des Moines 
(or Karachi, for that matter), it was hard to know how good the qual- 
ity would be, or how long the download would take. 

The good news is that most of the new services offer consistent 
quality and myriad features to expand your musical horizons. The 
services reviewed here fall broadly into two categories: those that 
mimic the feel of Napster, allowing you to download music, and 
those that stream their content to you on demand (and thus require 
an active connection to the Internet to listen). 

So let's set the bar. In a perfect world, a digital music service would 
be reasonably priced. It would allow downloads in a widely supported 
format and not require special software to play. It would be portable, 
allowing you to easily transfer files to an MP3 player or burn them onto 
a CD. It would recommend new music and allow users to communi- 
cate with one another and share playlists. By this criteria the old Nap- 
ster would score a strong 9 on a scale of 1 to 10. Sadly, none of the new 
offerings—not even the new Napster—scores higher than a 7. 


72 Yahoo! Internet Life » March 2002 


T E S ON A SCALE 


OF 1-TO-NAPSTER (ORIGINAL FLAVOR), HERE'S 
HOW THE MAJOR MUSIC SERVICES SCORE 


‘RISING, 


° THE DEAL $995/month for 
sol mu nee 100 downloads (listen all you 
More: wantin a 30-day period) and 


100 streams (listen once). 
WHO'S ON BOARD The MusicNet engine, including 
more than 10,000 artists and 100,000 songs from Warner 
Music Group, EMI, BMG Entertainment, and Zomba. Artists 
include Radiohead, Missy Elliott, and Lucinda Williams. 
THE ANGLE For AOL members it's as convenient as a 
keyword, and you can add your AOL music fees to your 
monthly ISP bill. It's also part of a wide array of other 
music services, such as Radio@AOL, Spinner, Winamp, 
and AOL's Artist Discovery Network. 

FATAL FLAW Suffers the limitations of MusicNet: no — 
portability and a limited catalog. And it's available 
only to those who use America Online. 


EMusic THE DEAL $1499/month 


esto for a three-month mini- 


mum commitment, $9.99/ 

month for a 12-month min- 
imum commitment, or you can take the free 14-day trial. 
WHO'S ON BOARD Because subscribers can down- 
load unlimited MP3s, the majors are unlikely to grant 
licenses. But EMusic has an eclectic array of 900 inde- 
pendent labels such as Matador, Ubiquity, and Fantasy. 
THE ANGLE One of the few paid services that allows 
downloads in MP3 format. Downloaded songs are yours 
to keep; you can burn them to a CD, copy them to a 
portable, or (brace yourself!) share them with friends. 
FATAL FLAW While it has some big-time artists, such 
as Elvis Costello and John Coltrane, you won't find cur- 
rent popular hits or major-label tracks here. 


‘ORIGINAy 


onlGiMay 

THE DEAL $8/month for 
100 downloads; $16/month 
for 200 downloads. Unlim- 
ited 20-second previews. 
WHO'S ON BOARD Deals signed with EMI Recorded _ 
Music and Universal Music Group bring Mariah Carey, 
Garth Brooks, and Jimi Hendrix. 

THE ANGLE FullAudio will distribute its service through 
the sites of ClearChannel radio stations such as KBIG 
ey in Los Angeles and WKSC in Chicago. 

FATAL FLAW Limited catalog and no portability, but 
FullAudio downloads can be mingled with your MP3 
collection in Windows Media Player, Winamp, and 
Musicmatch software. 


FullAudio 


fullaudio.com 


NOTE: MUSIC SERVICES ARE CHANGING ALL THE TIME. CHECK WITH THE 
SITES DIRECTLY FOR CURRENT SERVICES, PRICES, AND ARTIST SELECTION. 


ALISON DYER/ICON INTERNATIONAL 


aoa, 


seen | for unlimited streams from the 


| Naxos Classical catalog; All Ac- 
~ cess (which includes the entire 
Listen.com catalog) is $995 per month. 

WHO'S ON BOARD A slew of indies, such as Ninja Tune, Naxos, 
and Matador, and a few majors: BMG, EMI, and Sony. Stream 
tracks from DJ Spooky, Ella Fitzgerald, and Patsy Cline. 


THE ANGLE An economic choice, especially for classical music. | 


FATAL FLAW Showing signs of becoming a real player, but 
still has a limited selection of tracks per artist. 


cL 


o 


Pressplay 


pressplayicom streams and 30 downloads; $1495 


per month for 500 streams, 50 
downloads, and 10 burns; $1995 
per month for 750 streams, 75 downloads, and 15 burns; $2495 
per month for 1,000 streams, 100 downloads, and 20 burns. 
WHO'S ON BOARD Pressplay has assembled one of the largest 
catalogs, with tracks from Sony, Universal, and EMI. Artists in- 
clude Eminem, Coldplay, and Aerosmith. 

THE ANGLE The CD-burning function is the hot feature here. 
Service will appear at Yahoo!, MSN, MP3.com, and Roxio. 
FATAL FLAW The CD-burning feature is just as expensive as 
buying a shrink-wrapped CD, and—inexplicably—only two songs 


from any single artist can be burned per month. 


RealOne 


real.com 


THE DEAL RealOne Music is $995/ 
| month for 100 downloads and 100 
| streams. RealOne Gold is $1995 

per month for 125 downloads, 125 
streams, and access to premium RealOne video content. 
WHO'S ON BOARD The ubiquitous MusicNet engine, with 


| Warner, BMG, EMI, and Zomba. Includes artists such as Brit- | 


ney Spears, Linkin Park, and Fatboy Slim. 


THE ANGLE RealOne integrates RealPlayer and RealJukebox | 


in a system to manage music, burn CDs, and watch video. 
FATAL FLAW It's a new player and media browser designed 
to be all things to all people. The software download is huge, 
and some consumers have reported trouble installing it. 


THE DEAL The cost is $595/month 


| THE DEAL $995/month for 300 | 


THE DEAL About $5 to $10 for 50 
(New) Napster downloads a month and the abil- 


ity to swap tracks with other Nap- 
ster users. 

WHO'S ON BOARD In the beta version (the one being tested 
at press time), about 110,000 tracks were available from in- 
dependent labels such as Edel Music Group and TVT Records; 
includes Snoop Dogg, Guided by Voices, and Southern Cul- 
ture on the Skids. 

THE ANGLE The company is doing its best to preserve the feel 
of the old Napster, but it’s unclear whether consumers will re- 
turn from free services such as Kazaa and Gnutella. 


licenses. Also, will you pay for something you used to get for free? 


FATAL FLAW It remains to be seen if any major label will grant | 


Viel 
FREE SITES 


THE SONGS REMAIN THE SAME AT THE NET'S 
TOP FREE MUSIC SITES 


Not ready to shell out for downloads? Free services continue 
to be hot draws for surfers...and lawyers. Here's our latest look 
(at press time) of the Web's top destinations for cost-free tunes 


EMINEM 


Audiogalaxy Satellite [audiogalaxy.com] 

The current champion among free music sites. Audiogalaxy's 
quest to inherit the Napster mantle even got it mentioned on 
the TV show Alias. And it just may succeed: The interface looks 
a lot different, but the stunning variety is there. Search for “En- 
nio Morricone” and get hundreds of replies; search for "eminem" 
and get 23,000 (even the misspelling “enimem” will yield at 
least a hundred, and “enimen” a couple of hundred). It may take 
a while to warm up to the quirky Satellite software, but once 
you're proficient, AG rises head and shoulders above the rest. 


Grokster [grokster.com] Kazaa [kazaa.com] 
MusicCity Morpheus [musiccity.com] 

These three all access the same massive Amsterdam-based Fast- 
Track network, which has more than 1.5 million users logged in at 
any given moment, rivaling Napster's numbers in its heyday. And 
you can trade movies and TV shows along with songs. The trio also 
share a similar user interface, designed to look like the old Nap- 
ster. They are tricky to get started, however, and they will bombard 
you with ads and newsletters. An added frustration: Many of the 
downloads don't work. But consider that a side effect of tapping 
into a huge network. All three were given the ultimate seal of ap- 
proval last year—the Recording Industry Association of America 
sued them for abetting copyright infringement. At press time, Kazaa 
had suspended downloads of its free software from its site. 


Gnotella [gnotella.com] 

Based on the open-source Gnutella system—free music's answer 
to Linux—Gnotella is the real geek’s alternative to Napster. Its dif- 
fuse, vast, and seemingly unstoppable community of users con- 
tinues to thrive underground, trading everything from Oasis songs 
to Harry Potter books. Still, as usual, the software takes a bit of 
tweaking to get started, and everybody seems to have his or her 
own version. Also, finding what you want can take some time, as 
the system searches across a number of networks. But while it 
might be the slowest of the services, it's also the most resilient. = 


wwwyil.com >March 2002 73 


COVER STORY 


The 20 Trickiest Online 


NET/SCAMS) 


| 


Scams and Schemes—! 


and How to Avoid 
Getting Burned 


__BY LAURA FISHER KAISER! 


DEEP WITHIN THE CONFINES OF THE FEDERAL TRADE 
| Commission's Offices in Washington, D.C., is a powerful 
anticrime weapon known as “the refrigerator,“ and it's full 
|of only one thing: spam. The fridge is a computer data- 
| base containing more than 7.8 million pieces of suspi- 
cious e-mail forwarded to uce@ftc.gov by consumers 
|from around the country. The FTC collects tens of thou- 
| sands of these specimens a day as part of a broad-based 
| effort to spot and shut down fraud on the Internet. “All 
| of the old-fashioned scams are proliferating on the Net, 
|and spam isa major marketing vehicle for fraudsters,” 
{says Eileen Harrington, associate director of marketing 
practices at the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection. 
“There are no cost barriers to advertise and promote, and 
| anybody can set up a really impressive-looking site. It be- 
|comes difficult to distinguish between legitimate offers 
jand illegitimate ones.” 


Here's how to spot some of the slimiest cons 
that pop up on your screen, and avoid be- 
coming a statistic in the great Net rip-off. 


JEDIESNSTs [STAY esti E: Estee 
The Hook: “Urgent—Your Account Needs 
to Be Updated” 

The Con: “Urgent” e-mails inform you that 
the credit card you signed up with is invalid 
or expired and the information needs to be 
reentered to keep the account active. These 
are sent by thieves posing as Internet service 
providers, bank representatives, or govern- 
ment agencies to get you to reveal personal 
information, which they then use to drain 
your cash, open new accounts, and worse. 
Your Best Defense: Don't respond without 
independently checking with your ISP or 
whomever the e-mail claims to be from. Le- 
gitimate organizations usually have the in- 
formation they need and don’t ask you for 
it (certainly not via e-mail). The Federal Trade 
Commission [www.ftc.gov] has more infor- 
mation about this growing problem, along 
with online victim affidavit forms. 


Sr TERIA D See 
The Hook: “Help Computer Experts Stop 
Terrorism” 

The Con: In the wake of September 11, sev- 
eral mind-numbingly sleazy disaster-related 
scams cropped up. Initially, most sought to 
capitalize on the outpouring of money to char- 
ities, resulting ina flurry of unsolicited e-mails 
asking for donations, often to bogus organi- 
zations, As the war on terrorism took off, one 
e-mail going around asked for financial sup- 
port for a group of computer “experts” who 
were supposedly attempting to track Osama 
bin Laden's whereabouts. The e-mail gave a 
bank account number to which donations 
could be deposited, and the name of an indi- 
vidual in the country of Estonia. Getting money 
back once it goes overseas is notoriously dif- 
ficult—from the former Soviet bloc or a third- 
world country, it’s virtually impossible. 

Your Best Defense: Although many groups 
and individuals have harnessed the Net to 
mobilize help for disaster victims, and much 
of their information is helpful and accurate, 
crooks are trying to take advantage of the 
situation. Be cautious about any solicitation 
that mentions the disaster, even if it sounds 
legit. Confirm that charities are properly 
registered by contacting their state charities 
regulators, listed in the state government 


pages of the phone book, or by checking 
Give.org: BBB Wise Giving Alliance [give.org]. 
For more information about schemes re- 
lated to September 11, see the U.S. Depart- 
ment of Justice's Special Report on Possible 
Fraud Schemes: Solicitations of Donations for 
Victims of Terrorist Attacks [www.usdoj.gov/ 
criminal/fraud/WTCPent-SpecRpt.html. 


WORK AT HOME = 


The Hook: “Earn Big Bucks Sending Out | 


Medical Bills” 

The Con: Some work-at-home schemes have 
involved making crafts and stuffing envelopes. 
Lately, a popular one is medical billing. The 
sales pitch informs you of a “crisis” in the 
health care system owing to the overwhelm- 


ing task of processing paper claims, creating 
a huge market for electronic billing centers. 
You are lucky enough to have been given the 
opportunity to invest several thousand dol- 
lars for this prepackaged business, which con- 
sists of little more than brochures, a few forms 
and testimonial letters, sample diskettes, and 


a videocassette. The reality is, few individu- 
als are able to find enough clients for a viable 


eral 


=tinnean thon 
erating: on tne Ne! 


operation. The medical billing market is 
fiercely competitive, revolving around a num- 
ber of large and well-established firms. 

Your Best Defense: Get all earnings claims 
in writing, and ask the promoter to give you 
the names of all or many previous purchasers; 
the FTC requires these outfits to provide 
the names, addresses, and phone numbers 
of the 10 such people who live closest to you. 
Interview these people in person, preferably 


where their business operates, to reduce your | 


risk of being misled by shills and also to get 
a better sense of how the industry works. 


CREDIT CARD FRAUD __ 
The Hook: “View XXX Pics for Free” 

The Con: Free, that is, as long as you pro- 
vide your credit card number to “prove” 
you're over the age of 18. Fraudulent pro- 


moters then run up charges on your card. 
Your Best Defense: Remember, there's no 
such thing as a free lunch, especially when 
cheesecake’s on the menu. If you offer up 
your credit card number, be prepared to have 
your card charged, legitimately or not. 


MEDICAL TREATMENTS & 
1 WHE UGH STS O1S 1G sae 
The Hook: “Miracle Cure for Alzheimer’s, 
Cancer, AIDS, and Gulf War Syndrome” 

| The Con: Virtual snake-oil salesmen hawk 
exotic potions and pills, strange magnetic or 
electrical devices, the ability to “burn fat 
while you sleep,” “ancient” remedies, and 
“newly discovered” therapies for serious and 
chronic diseases. The curative claims are usu- 
ally phony, exaggerated, or unproven. 

Your Best Defense: Look for hyperbole—key 
words such as “scientific breakthrough” and 
| “secret ingredient,” claims thata product cures 
| awide range of ailments, pseudoscientific 
phrases, undocumented case histories, “money- 
| back” guarantees, claims that the product is 
available from only one source and advance 
| paymentis required, and conspiracy theories 


claiming the medical profession is in cahoots 
to suppress the product. Finally, ask yourself: 
Ifa medical breakthrough really occurred, 
would the news be announced first in a 
bulk e-mail or ad? To learn whether the FDA 
has issued a warning against a drug-selling 
Web site, see Buying Medicines and Medical 
| Products Online [www.fda.gov/oc/buyonline/ 
enforce.htmil. Or follow the example of James 
Hood, editor of ConsumerAffairs.com, who 
replied to an e-mail fora product thatallegedly 
makes you lose three to 15 pounds a night: “I 
hope you collect in advance since if this works 
as well as you say it does, | probably won't be 
around long once I start taking it.” 


CHAIN LETTERS _ 
The Hook: “Make at Least $50,000 in Less 
Than 90 Days” 


76 


Yahoo! Internet Life » March 2002 


COVER STORY 


The Con: The classic chain letter, sent in a 
high-tech envelope. An e-mail instructs you 
to send a small amount of money ($5 to $20) 
to each of several names on a list, then re- 
place one of the names with your own, and 
forward the revised list to thousands of new 
names using bulk e-mail. These schemes are 
almost always illegal and the majority of peo- 


ple who participate in them lose their money. 
Your Best Defense: Delete these spams be- 
fore getting sucked in. Don't believe it if 
the sender claims that the scheme is legal or 
endorsed by the U.S. government, even if the 


message cites sections of U.S. law that seem | 


to legitimize the operation. 


MULTILEVEL 
MARKETING PLANS 


The Hook: “A Great Job in a Fast-Growing | 


Company” 
The Con: You make money through the 


products and services you sell, as well as | 


PERE EG OOD Sis sop onc, 


| The Hook: “Free Computers for You and 
Your Friends” 

The Con: Another kind of pyramid scheme, 
in which you're promised “free” goodies— 
electronics, calling cards—just for joining a 
club. Once you pay the membership fee, 
however, you're told that you need to recruit 


acertain number of participants before you 
can collect the premiums. According to 
the FTC, “Almost all of the payoff goes 
to the promoters and little or none to the 
consumers who pay to participate.” 

Your Best Defense: Remember that you never 
get something for nothing. Some legitimate 
companies occasionally give away goods or 
samples in exchange for personal informa- 
tion or as a bonus when you buy another 
product. If you have to pay a fee for those 
goods or refer other warm bodies to the 


| “club,” it's no bargain. 


those sold by people you recruit into the | 


program. In other words, it’s a pyramid 
scheme with products. You pay up front 
for “training” and inventory, and then you 
cover your own advertising and marketing 
costs. Some victims have had to file for 
bankruptcy protection after spending thou- 


sands with no return. As one woman of | 


Ashville, Ohio, told Consumera ffairs.com, 
“L took out a $12,000 loan against my home 
to purchase products because they really 
made me believe we would do well. I had 


to file for bankruptcy. My credit is ruined!” | 
Your Best Defense: Avoid plans that require 


you to recruit other distributors, buy ex- 
pensive inventory, or pay a fee for an “oppor- 
tunity meeting.” For tips on evaluating a 
plan, see FTC Consumer Alert!: Lotions and Po- 
tions: The Bottom Line About Multilevel Mar- 
keting Plans [www.ftc.gov/bcp/conline/pubs/ 
alerts/lotionalrt.htm]. 


BIOTERRORISM 
PROIDWIGTRS sian et eee 
The Hook: “Colloidal Silver Kills Anthrax 
Safely” 

The Con: Reports of anthrax exposure have 
spawned numerous Web sites and e-mails sell- 
ing colloidal silver and antibiotics such as 
ciprofloxacin (Cipro). The only effective treat- 
ments known for biological agents such as an- 


thrax and smallpox are approved prescription | 


drugs and vaccines. Yet unscrupulous mar- 


keters sell knockofts that could be counterfeit | 
orcontaminated. (The FTC has begun crack- | 


ing down on purveyors of not only bogus 
medicinal cures but also dubious protection 
devices such as air filters, gas masks, protective 
clothing, and ultraviolet-light mechanisms.) 

Your Best Defense: Talk to your health care 
professional before using any medications. 
Don't buy drugs from Web sites that are 
outside the U.S. (and therefore unregulated), 


| that offer to prescribe drugs without a physi- 
| calexam or prescription, or that sell drugs not 
approved by the FDA. For more information 
and links about bioterrorism products and 
protection, visit FTC Broadens Warnings for 
Marketers of Bioterrorism Defense Products 
Iwww.ftc.gov/opa/2002/01/round2web.htm] 


AUCTION FRAUD 

The Hook: “Free shipping with cash payments” 
The Con: You mail or wire the cash, but the 
merchandise never arrives, and you never 
hear from the seller again. Or the item that 
you do receive is damaged or less valuable 
than what was described. By the time you 
figure out something is wrong, the seller has 
vanished with your money. 

Your Best Defense: Never, ever pay in cash 
on the Web. For items under $200—the 
amount eBay covers in its Fraud Protection 
Program—use a credit card or an online pay- 
ment service such as Billpoint or PayPal. For 
more expensive items or if you have any 
doubts, demand that the seller use escrow 
for payment. Also, on sites such as eBay, check 
out the seller's track record by reading the 
feedback others have posted. 


INTERNATIONAL 
MODEM DIALING _ 
| The Hook: “See the Steamiest Pictures on 
the Web—Absolutely Free” 

The Con: Want some free naughty pics? All 
you have to do is download a “viewer” or 
“dialer” software program. Of course, once 
the program is installed, it disconnects your 
Internet connection and reconnects to an in- 
ternational long-distance 900-type phone 
| number at rates as high as $7 a minute. You 
| then discover outrageous charges on your 
| 

| 


| phone bill for calls to places such as Chad, 
Guyana, and Madagascar. There may also be 
charges from a non-telecommunications com- 
| pany that provides a billing service to the Web 
site. As one resident of Vero Beach, Florida, 
discovered, disputing the charges with the 
phone company didn’t do any good because 
he did make the calls, however unwittingly. 
| Your Best Defense: If you see a pop-up win- 
dow with a disclaimer, read the information 
before clicking OK. Better yet, hit Cancel. 
Should the modem start redialing, cancel 
the connection and restart your computer. 
If you use a second line for your modem, 
ask the local phone company to place an 
“international block” on it. If you fall for 


| 
| 
1 
| 
| 
| Yahoo! Internet Life » March 2002 


77 


this scam, file a complaint with the FCC: Con- 
sumer Information Bureau [www.fcc.gov/cibl by 
sending e-mail to fecinfo@fcc.gov. 


ADVANCE-FEE LOANS 


| come available, domains 4 


site owner—are offered the opportunity 
to preregister domains in new top-level 
domain (TLD) names (aero, .bis, .coop, and 
so on), However, whenever new TLDs be- 


cin fact assigned | 


VACATION PRIZE 
PROMOTIONS _ 
The Hook: “Call Now to Claim Your Fabu- 
lous Vacation Package” 

The Con: The electronic certificate may con- 


The Hook: “No Credit, No Problem” 
The Con: The Better Business Bureau re- 
cently issued an international alert to warn 


consumers about advance-fee loan scam 


artists preying on consumers left vulnerable 
by the recession. The con artists advertised 
“easy guaranteed” loans on the Web. When 


| ona first-come, first-served basi 
| the event that a new TLD does open up, 
there's no guarantee your reservation will | 
be worth anything, In an older version of 
this scam, you receive an e- 
bogus “Internet Registration Committee” 
saying that your Web site has not been 


so in | 


gratulate you on “winning” deep discounts 
ona dream vacation, but you haven’t won 
anything at all. You're merely one of thou- 


mail from the | to receive this e-mail. Your “prize” isa far cry 


from the pages of Travel e” Leisure—shabby 


Nine things every surfer needs to know to stop cyber-grifters 


1. Always wear your skeptic's hat. “If it seems too good to be true, it 
probably is," says Gwen Reichbach, executive director of the National 
Institute for Consumer Education. “That old saw still cuts.” 

2. Don't respond to e-mail from people and companies you don't know. 
That just shows them they're reached a working address. Simply hit Delete. 
3. Avoid doing business with any company that fails to list its name, 
address, phone number, and other contact information on its site. 

4. \n general, don't give out personal information—social security 
number, mother's maiden name, financial account numbers, passwords, 
and other identifying information—unless you have initiated the contact 
or know specifically with whom you're dealing. 

5. Use your credit card online only with companies that you trust and 
that have secure servers. If unauthorized charges appear, immediately 


6. Check a company’s track record through Better Business Bureau: Check 
Out a Company Isearch.bbb.org/national/search.htmil, the state Attor- 
ney General's office or consumer protection agency, and complaint sites 
such as ConsumerAffairs.com (which maintains an impressive "Rogues 
Gallery") and PlanetFeedback 

7. When approached via the Net about a business opportunity, consult 
an attorney, accountant, or other business adviser before signing any 
agreement or forking over any money. 

8. Bear in mind that although many bogus offers target the elderly and 
teenagers (who may have parents’ credit cards), anyone can fall prey to 
Web scams and schemes. 

9. If you do get scammed, report it your state's Atorney General. Immedi- 
ately file a complaint with the FTC, toll-free, at 877-FTC HELP (877-382-4357), 


write to your credit card's issuing bank to dispute them. 


consumers called a toll-free number, a friendly 
voice requested personal information (num- | 
bers for bank accounts, credit cards, social | 
security), promised to send an application | | 
form, “confirmed” the loan approval, and | 
then requested a fee for insurance. Each vic- 
tim lost between $500 and $3,000, | 
Your Best Defense: These scams, which come 
in many guises, surge during uncertain eco- | 
nomic times. Some guarantee home equity 
loans even if you don’t have any equity in | 
your house; others promise unsecured credit 
cards from “offshore banks” regardless of 
your credit history. Be wary of pressure tac- 
tics that force you to act immediately or 
“loan brokers” unwilling to disclose their 
location, a common ploy to avoid the law. 


Ask which lenders the broker deals with, 
including their address, and then contact | 
the BBB [bbb.org] to request information. 


DOMAIN REGISTRATION 
The Hook: “Don’t Be Left Out— Reserve 
Your Domain Now” 

The Con: For a fee, you—the would-be Web 


718 


Yahoo! Internet Life » March 2002 


properly registered and therefore will be 
impossible for your customers to find. 


or use the forms at [www.ftc.gov] or [consumer.gov/sentinell. 


Your Best Defense: Ignore unsolicited | 


e-mail from companies that promise pref 
erential treatment in the assignment of 
new top-level domain names, Instead, 


| check ICANN licann.org] to get the latest up- 


dates on the assigning process and find out | 


what you really need to do in order to 
secure domain names. 


CREDIT REPAIR 

The Hook: “Brand New Credit File in 30 Days” 
The Con: Firms sell instructions about how 
consumers with a bad credit history can sub- 


LEK. 


sands, ifnot millions, of prospective suckers | 


hotels, junky cruise ships—although getting | 


_ oursmantine. rue (oor: Gow ARIES) 


upgraded to merely awful accommodations | 


and travel times before 2 A.M. is no prob- 
lem if you're willing to pay a hefty fee. 

Your Best Defense: If you're looking for a 
travel bargain, price-comparison sites such 
as Orbitz lorbitz.com] and SideStep Isidestep. 
coml can help you put together a package on 
your terms, But still get references on any travel 
company you plan to book with, and ask about 


| cancellation policies, before signing on. 


ADVANCE-FEE FRAUD _ 


stitute federally issued, nine-digit employee | 


identification numbers for social security 
numbers and use them to build new credit 
profiles. They neglect to tell you that this 


| practice, known as “file segregation,” isa felony. 


Your Best Defense: It takes time to rehab- 
ilitate a bad credit history, but legitimate 
organizations can help you get on track. A 


| good place to start: the nonprofit NFCC: Na- 


tional Foundation for Credit Counseling [nfcc.org]. 


The Hook: “Confidential Business Proposal 
The Con: This scam—also known as the “4- 
1-9” fraud, after the 
penal code that addresses fraud schemes— 
has been around for more than a decade, but 
it's gotten new life through the Internet. You 
receive an e-mail from an alleged “official” 
of a foreign government or agency who,ur- 
gently seeks a reputable U.S. company into 
whose account he can deposit up to $60 mil- 


ion of the Nigerian | 


| 


lion, which his government overpaid on some | 


procurement contract. Apparently $59 mil- 


lion or so will be moved out of the account | 


COVER STORY 


eventually, leaving you with a cool million- | 
dollar commission. The victim is deluded 
into thinking he’s been singled out to par- 
ticipate in this lucrative arrangement and | 
that the con artist has strong ties to top gov- 
ernment officials. Any doubts are dispelled 
by the appearance of false documents on 
government letterhead. The victim is re- 
quested to travel to Nigeria or a border coun- 
try to complete the transaction. At each step 
of the way, the victim must fork over vari- | 
ous fees, bribes, and other payments to save | 
the venture. This scam gets even uglier— | 
in 1995, an American in pursuit ofa4-1-9 
deal was murdered in Lagos. 

Your Best Defense: Don’t let the promise of 
an inside deal tempt you for even a nanosec- | 
ond. If you've lost money because of this 
scam, e-mail the U.S. Secret Service at 
419.fcd@usss.treas.gov. 


INTERNATIONAL 
SWEEPSTAKES 
The Hook: “You've Won $25 Million in the | 
Australian International Sweepstakes” 

The Con: Whereas the Nigerian advance- 
fee scheme targets small businesses and char- 
ities, this mutant preys on individuals. In | 


this case, before you can collect your prize, 
you need to wire a processing fee, and then 
an attorney's fee, and then a courier’s fee 
and guess what—you'll drain your bank ac- | 
count before you see a penny of this phan- | 
tom fortune. And for some reason, Australia | 
(or whatever country) is running the con- | 


test from some other offshore locale. 
Your Best Defense: Get real. The chances that | 
you, ofall the people on the planet, would win 
an obscure sweepstakes you didn’t sign up 
for are slim to none. On the off chance you 
did win, if the contest were on the up-and-up, 
you wouldn't be required to pay a bunch of 
frivolous fees before getting a check. Tell them | 
to take it out of your winnings and cut you a 
check. If they put up a fuss, ask to see contest 
rules in writing and the promoter’s physical 
address. Then check it out with the FTC. 


| ordered services as a gift. Review your te 


ing and have a lawyer and an accountant look 
over the proposed contract before you sign 
it. “Think about it,” advises the FTC's Har- 
rington. “If 1 knew how to earn lots of money 
in my spare time without doing a lot of work, 
why would I be telling you about it and not 
off doing it myself?” Remember: If this biz 


| opis so hot, why do these bozos have to pro- 


mote it via bulk e-mail? 


WEB CRAMMING 
The Hook: “Custom- Designed Web 
30 Days—FREE” 

The Con: You're promised a free Web site for 
atrial period, with no obligation to continue. 
You cancel after the 30 days—if your site gets 
designed at all—but are still charged, with 
the fees appearing on your phone bill. In 
1999, the FTC sued five companies that had 
tried to sell bogus or uncancellable Internet- 
related service to more than 1 million small 


ite for 


businesses eager to join the electronic mar- 


| ketplace. Sites that were created contained 


limited information about the businesses, in- 
cluded misinformation or misspellings, and 
lacked key features. Moreover, most of the 
sites are not listed with major search engines. 
Your Best Defense: If your small business 
receives bills for services you didn’t order, 
don’t pay. The law allows you to treat un- 


phone bills every month and challenge 
any charges you don't recognize. 


BULK MA 


| The Hook: “Reach Millions of New Cus- 


tomers by E-Mail” 


| The Con: These bulk e-mail solicitations ped- 
| dle yet more bulk e-mail lists with millions 
| of addresses and software, but they fail to 


mention that if you use one of the automated 
programs, your ISP may shut you down. Send- 
ing unsolicited commercial e-mail violates 
not only the terms of service of most ISPs 
but also several state laws. “In addition,” ac- 
cording to the FTC, “inserting a false return 
address into your solicitations, as some of the 


| automated programs allow you to do, may 


BUSINESS 

OPPORTUNITIES —__ 
The Hook: “Be Your Own Boss— Earn Big” | 
The Con: You pay to get in on the ground | 
floor of an exciting business venture in an | 
up-and-coming market. Chances are, there's 
no evidence to back up the earnings claims 
Your Best Defense: Get all promises in wri 


| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 


land you in legal hot water with the owner 


of the address’s domain name.” 

Your Best Defense: Invest in legitimate mar- 
keting methods and take a no-spam oath. 
Though it takes longer and may cost more, 
go for a bulk e-mail program that lets re- 
cipients “opt-in”—meaning no marketing 
e-mail unless it’s solicited. = 


Spring Fashion Credits rrom pace 69 


LUGGAGE, PAGES 62, 63 Leff to right: Hartmann 
mobile traveler, $695 [hartmann.com]; Kenneth Cole 


woyen day case, $275 [kennethcole.com]; T: Anthony 
, $2,200, and T. Anthony Ltd. 
Barclay bag (rear), $455 [tanthony.com]; Coach travel 
satchel (front), $348 [coach.coml; Hartmann overnight 
garment sle $395 [hartmann.com]; Cole Haan 
bowling bag, $295 [colehaan.coml; Hartmann wood- 
box pullman, $895 thartmann.coml; T: Anthony Ltd. 


polo duffel, $395 [tanthony.com]. On him: Nautica 


Ltd. wardrobe trun! 


jacket, $295, and trousers, $110 Inautica.coml; Donna 
Karan shirt, $125 [www.donnakaran.coml; Allen-Ed- 
monds footwear, $285 [www.allen-edmonds.com]; 
D&G belt, $90 [www.dolcegabbana.it]. 

WATCHES, PAGE 64 Lefi, top to bottom: Swatch Stal- 
wart, $70 [swatch.com]; Gucci, $1,150 [gucci.com]; 
Oris Classic XXL, $925 lwww.oris-watch.com]; 
Hamilton Everest, $400 [www.hamiltonwatch.coml; 
cK Primary, $80 [swatchgroup.coml; Monaco by TAG 
.450 Iwww.tagheuer.coml. Right, top to bot- 
tom: Seiko Windward, $400 Iseikousa.com]; Nau- 


Heuer, 


tica, $135 [nautica.coml; Omega Speedmaster, $2395 
[www.omega.chl; Movado Eliro, $1,495 Imovado. coml; 
Tommy Hilfiger, $115 [tommy.coml; Breitling Nav- 
itimer Cosmonaute, $3,775 [www.breitling.com]. 
CLOTHESLINE, PAGE 65 Lef? to right: 2 ist boxer 


briefs, $24 [2xist.coml; American Eagle Outfitters 


boxers, $12.50 [ae.com]; Joe Boxer boxers, $18 


[joeboxer.coml; Calvin Klein briefs (3-pack), $19 
[macys.com]; Jockey boxer briefs, $15 lwww,jockey.com]; 
Chereskin briefs (3-pack), $12 [freshpair.com]; BOSS 
Hugo Boss briefs, $26 fhugoboss.coml; Malizia from 
La Perla bra, $119, and thong, $50 [laperla.coml; Stu- 
art Weitzman footware, $180 [stuartweitzman.coml. 
FEET, PAGES 66, 67 Leff to right: Banana Republic 
trousers, $58 [bananarepublic.coml, and Rockport 
footwear, $90 [rockport.coml; Hickey Freeman 
trousers, $225 [hickeyfreeman.coml, and Johnston & 
Murphy footwear, $138 johnstonandmurphy.coml, 
Claiborne trousers, $89.50 [macys.com], and J.M. 
Weston footwear, $595 Iimweston.coml; Tommy Hil- 
figer trousers, $45.50 [tommy.coml, and Kenneth 
Cole Reaction footwear, $130 [kennethcole.com]. 
WEATHER, PAGES 68, 69 Far lefi: Ted Baker suit, 
$595 [www.tedbaker.coml; Tommy Hilfiger shirt, 
$4950, tie, $39.50, watch, $85 Itommy.coml; Cole 
Haan footwear, $285 [colehaan.coml; D&G belt, $90 
Iwww.dolcegabbana.itl.Second from left: Polo Ralph 
Lauren shirt, $79.50, sweater, $225, blazer, $850, 


trousers, $5750 [polo.coml; Kenneth Cole Reaction 
footwear, $120 [kennethcole.coml. Covering head: Donna 
Karan T-shirt, $150 [www.donnakaran.coml; Cole 
Haan jacket, $490 [colehaan.coml; Levi's LEJ jeans, 
about $70 flevi.coml; Johnston & Murphy footwear, 
$148 [johnstonandmurphy.com]; Nautica belt, $32 
{nautica.com]; Emporio Armani shoulder bag, $298 
femporioarmani.com]; Concord watch, $1,490 
Iwww.concord.ch]. Woman: D&G jacket and skirt, 
$630 [www.dolcegabbana.it]; Stuart Weitzman 
footwear, $180 [stuartweitzman.coml; Giorgio Ar- 
mani umbrella, $195 [giorgioarmani.coml. = 


Yahoo! Internet Life >March 2002 79 


Continuing the search for the perfect all-in-one 


device, a divine breed of gadgetry that 


can make phone calls, send and receive 


e-mails, play videos, and organize your life 


phone in one hand, a PDA in the other, and a two- 
gling from your not-very-cool hip holster. You can 
nother pair of cargo pants or stash your gizmos in a 
pocket vest—but maybe it's not your wardrobe that 
rading. A new breed of converged devices that combine 
-the-go needs—including wireless e-mail and Net access— 
peting for space in the one pocket you're willing to stuff. 
course, there's always the danger that the more tasks any one 
attempts, the less well it will do any single thing. It's certainly 
jat the road to the Holy Grail is paved with trade-offs. The first 

mise is size. Most all-in-ones weigh less than the handfuls of 


re they replace, but they can still feel like a brick if you're used 


to a Snickers-size Nokia phone or a tiny Motorola pager. Then there's 
the question of color screens: wonderful for Web surfing but expen- 
sive and power-hungry. And even though scribbling on-screen is fine 
for some, messaging mavens wouldn't dare travel without a built- 
in keyboard. Like it or not, thumb typing is the wave of the future. 
With so many possible combinations of features and so many 
designs to accommodate them, there may one day be a unique 
Holy Grail gadget for every single person who wants one. That 
said, a select few—most notably Handspring's new Treo—do seem 
poised for mass popularity. Check the functions each device 
offers, see how we've rated them on our unique Four-Grail grad- 
ing system, and decide if you're ready to empty your pockets. 


80 Yahoo! Internet Lifer March 2002 


ye and display size just right, but also 


Is This It? 


HANDSPRING TREO 180 
eee 


For now, this is as close as you'll 


| come. Handspring’s heaven-sent 
handheld deftly combines a Palm 
organizer, phone, e-mail, and Net 
access (optimized by Handspring's 
| Blazer browser) without ever mak- 
ing you regret this marriage of con- 
venience, Not only are the weight 


| the little keyboard makes pecking 
| outa quick message, reminder, 
or URL a hell of alot easier than 
Graffiti. Even the cover/earpiece 
is ingenious: when flipped up it’s 
angled to keep check grease off 
the touch screen. $399 with ser- 
vice activation [handspring.com] 


@ Prone EMAIL — @ 2-way cHat @ viveo camera 


@ wea © Poa eu )) STILL CAMERA 


‘TURN THE PAGE TO CONTINUE THE QUEST> | 


_ TELEPONG BOOMERANG 
¥¥i2 


This curved communicator is targeted at talkative 


tweens and scheduled to debut in Europe this sum- 
mer. The Stateside rollout is set for early ’03, but 
will American kids be smitten with the color display 
and advanced text, photo, and audio messaging? A dig- 
ital camera will be sold separately. Count on addictive 
gameplay—and a joystick. About $315 [www.elepong.coml 


| MOTOROLA 
| 4 ACCOMPLI 009 
W¥ 1/2 

| Its name may conjure images of 
secret-agent drama, but this pudgy 
pager specializes in more mun- 
dane activities: messaging and 
e-mail, In fact, the Accompli will 
juggle up to 10 e-mail accounts 
ata time and—with its always-on 
GPRS technology—can notify 


| SENDO 7100 SMARTPHONE 


jet-setters of incoming messages 
on the fly. Unfortunately, the 
headset is a must if you want to 
place phone calls, and the WAP 
browser isn’t nearly as much fun 
as the bundled Pac-Man—like 
game. $649 [motorola.com] 


THA 
| Based on Microsoft's secret-weapon Smartphone 
| Software Solution platform, the Z100 weighs next 
to nothing yet crams in everything from 65,000 col- 
| ors to audio and video playback. But while having 

your Outlook-based e-mail and text messages in the 

same in-box is convenient, relying on the error-prone 
| numbers-equals-letters typing technique may cause 
friends and colleagues to think you're corresponding 
from a bar stool. Price not yet determined [www.sendo.co.uk] 


82 


Yahoo! Internet Life» March 2002 


€ = 
PPP 1/2 

One of three Holy Grail hopefuls with the Palm OS 
| under their hood, the SPH is the only one with a 256- 
color screen (a color Treo model is still a few months 
away). Yes, the extra hues cut down on talk time, but 
the second slot in the recharging cradle holds a spare 
battery so you can swap and go. Less forgivable is 
the lack of a cover, though the top-mounted LCD 
lets you check who's calling without having to pull the 
device out of your pocket. $499 [samsungusa.com] 


© wes 


@ PHONE E-MAIL 


©) ppa 


2-WAY CHAT VIDEO CAMERA 
IM STILL CAMERA 


NOKIA 9290 


| COMMUNICATOR 


yyy 
Closed, it looks like a cell phone 


straight from the early '90s, but 
pop open this high-end (and 
high-priced) silver dialer, and 
you'll quickly discover why it 
might also be your next laptop. 
The horizontal display supports 
4,000-plus colors—great for surf 
ing and office work—and the 
keys are placed far enough apart 
to type with your fingertips. Other 
| perks include RealPlayer Mo- 
| bile and a 16MB MultiMedia 
Card for loading extra apps. One 
convergence caveat; You have 
to hold the handset backward 
(with the dial pad away from 
your face) when you're on the 
phone. $800 [nokiausa.coml 


Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


€_ ORIGAMI MOBILE COMMUNICATOR 


yey 


Designed to take convergence to its ludicrous but some- 
| how still tantalizing extreme, the aptly named Origami 
concept device reveals a new function with every 
fold. The integrated camcorder enables impromptu 
videoconferences, and built-in Bluetooth lets you print 
wirelessly from up to 30 feet away. It’s pretty heavy 
for a cell phone; then again, your StarTac doesn’t run 
Windows XP. Price not yet determined [national.com] 


>| PC-EPHONE 


¥ 1/2 

There's a very good reason that rumors had this clunky 
Windows-flavored concept phone dead before its ar- 
rival, Sure there's enough real estate for a superwide 
high-resolution color display, but there won't be space 
for much else in your messenger bag. The on-screen 
keyboard works well enough, and executive types will 
surely be wooed by the 206-MHz processor and the 
heavy-duty office apps. But as an on-the-go gadget for 
the rest of us, it’s a bit much. Expect to see it in spe- 
cialized corporate deployments. $999 [pc-ephone.com] 


¥Y 


4 DANGER HIPTOP 
LAD 57) 

With a nifty swivel screen, soft 
rubberized keyboard, and a price 
that’s as friendly as its compact 


proportions, the Hiptop could 
be the first hybrid hit for the 
masses. A behind-the-scenes 
service speeds up online access 
and lets the device send and re- 
ceive e-mail with attachments— 
including pictures if you spring 
for the attachable digital camera. 
But where's the built-in digital 
audio player? $200 [danger.coml 


@8528080@ 


| KYOCERA QCP-6035 SMARTPHONE 


While deserving of props for leading the PDA-plus- 
phone revolution, this once-groundbreaking Palm 
OS-—based pioneer is graying fast. Without color and 
a keyboard, it’s already old news. On the other hand, 
gray scale isn’t a bad thing if it leads to longer battery 
life. Plus, there’s the tactile reassurance of a real dial 
pad. What ultimately makes this smart phone a not-so- 
smart idea is its undesirable heft. Watch for big price 
cuts on these babies. $399-$499 [kyocera-wireless.com] 


| And Just Around the Corner... 


All these Holy Grail gadgets give us an exciting glimpse of the future. Too) 
bad they depend on communications infrastructures that are hopelessly 
bogged down in the past. We keep hearing about superfast third-genera- 
tion (3G) communications networks that will let you watch the entire Star| 
Wars saga on your video-equipped phone, but where are they? Ask us 
again in four years (even Japan can't seem to get its act together on this 
one). In the meantime, you'll have to settle for the low-bandwidth present. | 

Fortunately, settling may not be such a bad thing. Although 
they go by different acronyms (GPRS or 1xRTT), new services being 
rolled out right now by major cellular players such as AT&T, Sprint, 
and VoiceStream will let us browse at dial-up-like speeds (or faster) 
from anywhere we roam, while doubling the system's voice capacity—| 
which means that fewer calls will get dropped mid-sentence. 

In fact, of the 10 Holy Grail hopefuls we rounded up, six are already 
optimized for the interim 2.5G standard, a technology that provides 
phones with faster wireless connections. That's not to say the stragglers— 
including the PC-EPhone and trio of Palm-based phones—are 
instantly obsolete. Handspring will make a software upgrade available 
on its site for the Treo to join the 2.5G ranks. It's a little harder to 
excuse the PC-EPhone, which can take a minute to load a pop-up ad, 
but ion 2.0 of the device will include a k 


@ Prone E-MAIL  @ 2-way cHAT @ viveo camerA 


© wes © ppa om © sTILL CAMERA 


Hi 
NEWS SOURCE Tone 
THE WORLD. 


The No.1 best source for technology news, according to Barron’s. 

For business leaders and investors who recognize the value of up-to-the-second 
coverage of technology, there is no more informative place to turn. CNET News.com. 
It’s where the people you read about in technology read about technology. 


cine) NEWS.COM 


TECH NEWS FIRST. 


© 2002 CNET NETWORKS INC. 


a 


MARTIN PARR/MAGNUM. 


__web guide 5 


_ WHERE To, HOW TO, BEST OF: OUR MONTHLY GUIDE TO LIFE ON THE WEB EDITED BY CREE McCREE 


PICTURE YOURSELF ON THE SNOW. 


Orr's easy enough to do when live Web cams can transport you to mountains around the 


world. Whether you want the four-star high of an exclusive ski resort or seek slopes less 
traveled for cross-country treks, you can plan and book your trip online. Looking for more 
extreme action? You'll find plenty to rock your world, from mountainboards that sneer at 


slush to streamlined Skimbats that let you “wingsurf” across a field of snow, on page 93. 


INSIDE 


New, Notable 
& Fun 88 


This month's hot picks 


Entertainment 

& Sports 90 
Trendspotting: Bring 

Back the Buzz 

Plus: The Oscars, Ticket 
Brokers, Dead Rockers 


Travel 

& Recreation 92 
Getaway Guru: 

A Good Time to Go 

Plus: Winery Tours, Snow 
Sports, Romantic Trips 


Money 

& Shopping 94 
Money Matters: 

Home Loans on the Fly 
Plus: Bargain Hunters, Gar-| 
den Goods, Work at Home 


Web Lab 98 
Best Home-Buying Sites 


GUESTGUIDE 94. 
Designer Diane 


von Furstenberg 

EXPERT OPINION 93 

Danger Finder 
_ Robert Pelton 


“SPOTLIGHT sh 
Net-Branded Credit 


wwwyil.com »March 2002 87 


new, nota ble &fun__ 


@ Gloss.com Launched in 1999, 
this click-and-buy boutique took 
a yearlong beauty rest while Es- 
tée Lauder, Chanel, Mac, and other 
upscale vendors 
gave it a makeover. 
The branded shops 
offer more than 
5,000 products, 
plus tips on using 
them. [gloss.com] 


+) Chemical Industry Archives 
The Environmental Working Group 
is determined to reduce pollution 
and improve public health by scru- 
tinizing the government's safety 
standards. To do this, the group 
uses its own research as well as 
data obtained through lawsuits 
against the chemical industry. One 
chilling fact: Of the approximately 
70,000 chemicals currently in com- 
mercial use, the Environmental 
Protection Agency has requested 
tests for only 263 of these po- 


WHAT'S HOT— AND COOL — ON THE WEB THIS MONTH 


3¥ M 


® Sears.com Ideally, you'd 
browse for a barbecue grill or a 
lawn mower on the Web but avoid 
shipping charges by buying offline, 
tight? Sears.com got the message. 
Now you can purchase such an 
item online and pick it up at a lo- 
cal Sears branch. Also new at the 
site: a clearance center, as well as 
shipping to APO and FPO mili- 
tary addresses. [sears.com] 


tential pollutants as of 1998. 
Ichemicalindustryarchives.org] 


+] NTI: Nuclear Threat Initia- 
tive When the Cold War ended, 
the specter of nuclear war faded 
from the headlines. But NTI, founded 
by Ted Turner and Sam Nunn, aims 
to call new attention to the prob- 
lem and ultimately lessen the risk 
of nuclear, biological, and chemi- 
cal attacks. Research such topics 
as the weapons capacity of newly 
independent states. [nti.org] 


SPO 


GUINNESS 


FOR STRENGTH 


IGHT 


ERIN GO BROWSE 


>) March may come in like a lion and go out like a lamb, but 


t+) Riding the heels of competitors who provide Internet service 
as well as content, Yahoo! Lyahoo.com! will soon offer cobranded 
digital subscriber lines with SBC, the high-speed ISP that acquired 
dial-up provider Prodigy. The portal has also penned a deal with 
SpotLife to provide personal video e-mail services at Yahoo! 
Mail [mail.yahoo.coml. For details, see this month's Web User. 


what's the catalyst for transformation? Could it be St. Patrick’s 
Day? Irish Americans don't care whether you're of Italian or 
feline descent as long as you wear green, grab a pint, and join 
in the festivities. To get in the mood, tune into RTE Interac- 
tive Radio [www.rte.ie/radiol. You won't hear any hokey 
+] To compete with AOL's Mobile Communicator, MSN [msn.com] pub songs here, but you can check out Raidié na Gaeltachta, 
now offers Hotmail users the Motorola Talkabout T900 two-way 
pager (about $160). Good news for slow typists: Monthly plans 
charge by the letter instead of the minute; get 25,000 charac- 
ters for $14.95, or up to 100,000 characters for $29.95. 


broadcast entirely in Gaelic, as well as three other news and 
music stations. To dress the part, deck out the living room, or 
to get a Bloom’s-eye view of Dublin’s O’Connell Bridge, 
stop by Celtic.com, Now for the important stuff: Guinness.com. 


r+} America Online and Yahoo! recently joined forces with 
more than 20 nonprofit companies to create Network for Good 
Inetworkforgood.orgl. Find nearly 850,000 charities listed, 


Learn about the history of the “deep dark ray of sunshine,” 
get tips on how to brew your own, or join the 1759 Society 


plus thousands of volunteering opportunities. 


Yahoo! Internet Life » March 2002 


(21 and older only, please). Better yet, head out to your 
local pub, pull up a stool, and get yourself a draft. Enjoy. 


POSTER: KEVIN SCHAFER/CORBIS 


GIRL: CHRISTOPH WILHELM/GETTY IMAGES 


Woe 


6 Daypop Frustrated when he 
couldn't find the daily dish he wanted 
during the 2000 U.S. presidential 
election, Dan Chan created Day- 
pop, a current events search en- 
gine. Include news sites and weblogs 
in your search, or limit results to 
one or the other. [daypop.com] 


e Lip Magazine If your polit- 
ical views lean toward the left, 
you'll appreciate this online zine, 
which looks at such issues as 
“How Mass Media Fails Democ- 
racy.” [lipmagazine.org] 


Devices of Wonder The An- 
droid Clarinetist (1838), a 6-foot-2- 
inch automaton, invites visitors 
into this whimsical Getty Museum 
exhibit with 20-odd historic toys 
and optical devices. Relics such as 
the Sorceress's Mirror (1700s) are 
still neat today. [getty.edu/art/ 
exhibitions/devices/choice.htmll 


Sleeping Giants In the heart 
of the Arizona desert rest thou- 


sands of retired US. Air Force craft— 
an “aviation afterlife." This video 
shows the regeneration of the ma- 
jestic machines. [kodak.com/US/ 
en/corp/features/sleepingGiants] 


@  eEpucation” 


r+) INet Library Schools sub- 
scribing to this service give teach- 
ers and students access to an online 
database linking to more than 
200,000 educational sites, re- 
viewed for quality. linetlibrary.com] 


t+) Nova Online Teachers In- 
structors can search the database 
at the site for PBS's Nova for ed- 
ucational materials, including pro- 
gram contents, lesson plans, and 
online activities. [www.pbs.org/ 
nova/teachers] 


(+) Adventure Learning Foun- 
dation Teachers and students stuck 
in the classroom can follow global 
treks at this nonprofit, whose mis- 
sion is to help students understand 
various cultures and promote Net 
use in schools. [questconnect.org] 


Devices of Wonder te oy 


_VIRTUAL ROCK 'N' ROLL 


eo Eric Clapton, eat your heart out. It’s time for air- 
guitar karaoke. Buy the $70 Band Edition of Music- 
Playground [musicplayground.coml and you'll get a wired 
guitar pick that lets you play anything from a tennis 
racket to a tabletop; a virtual drum kit with sticks; and 
50 songs on CD-ROM to play along with (everything 
from Elvis to J.Lo), On-screen indicators tell you when 
to strum and tap, and with a little practice, the results 
sound great. To get more music, head to the Net, where 
you can quickly download 25 more songs from the on- 
line jukebox for $34.95 or 10-tune SongPacks for $12.95 
each. Musicians can join the virtual panel by patching 
in their instruments or playing along “unplugged.” 


C+) ONLINE ALBUMS Why simply mail snapshots to 
the relatives when you can turn them into online 
productions? Neptune Mediashare [neptune.coml 
helps you assemble and store great-looking Flash- 
based photo and video albums—complete with cap- 
tions, effects, and music—that friends and family can 
access via a simple URL. Although the service lim- 
its individual albums to 10 photos (to keep down- 
load times reasonable), you can have multiple albums; 
25MB of storage is $39 a year, Not surprisingly, you'll 
need a broadband connection to create and view 
video albums. DON WILLMOTT 


www.yil.com > March 2002 


89 


eu OU. dese 
entertai t_& sports 


by» TRENDSPOTTING BY BILGE EBIRI 


merger consolidation; Mr. Showbiz, one of the Net's oldest 
entertainment ventures, fell victim to the parent company 
Disney's complete restructuring of its failing Web operations. 


So where should one go in their wake? E! Online [eonline. 
com] is still around, and it serves to fill many of the gossipy 
gaps left behind by Mr. Showbiz. So does EW.com, the online 
home of Entertainment Weekly magazine. And The Internet 
Movie Database imdb.com] is the Grand Old Man of show- 
biz information. But the fact remains that in these trying 
times, when we could use a little light diversion, the once 
thriving world of entertainment news sites has become 
something of a wasteland. Here’s hoping that the vibrant 
domain of dish will one day make a comeback. George 


BRING BACK THE BUZZ 


Where are all the juicy showbiz sites of yesteryear? 


Where have all the entertainment sites gone? No, not the 
much-hyped, long-dead downloadable film sites that made such 
a splash a couple of years ago but sites such as Mr. Showbiz, which 
dished out celebrity news and gossip. Some of these were among 
the Web's most popular destinations at the turn of the century, 
and the Net seemed ready-made for providing us with quick bytes 
of Hollywood info. But now Mr. Showbiz and Roughcut.com are 
long gone, Reel.com’s output has been severely curtailed, and 
Real.com: Film.com Ifilm.coml is barely there. What happened? 

Although some entertainment sites failed for the usual rea- 
sons (they got too big, too fast; they didn’t turn a profit), in 
many instances, it was a case of corporate misfortune. TNT’s 
Roughcut.com became a casualty of the AOL Time Warner 


90 Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


Clooney and Sharon Stone aren't getting any younger. 


ACADEMY AWARDS 


© stupy THE HistoRY 

Academy of Motion Picture Arts and 
Sciences AMPAS maintains a rich 
archive of pictures, drawings, and 
historical information. Access official 
tules, a database covering all the 


| award winners from 1927 to the pre- 


sent, an Academy events calendar, 
and the colorful story of “Oscar” 
himself. Then you'll be prepared for 
the March 24 gala at Hollywood's 
Kodak Theatre. [oscars.orgl 


* ) PREDICT THE FUTURE 
OscarWatch “The terrorist attacks 
on New York will forever change the 


| a 
STEVEN SPIELBERG 


est oaecros piri PicTaRE 


> J ‘q 
-) 4 TOM HANKS 


BEST ACTOR 


cs 


workings of Hollywood movies," said 
director Mike Figgis. That said, it's 
also true that movie lovers will for- 
ever escape reality by going to Hol- 
lywood films. This site is packed with 
Oscar news, predictions, reviews, 
and forums where fans discuss their 
forecasts. [oscarwatch.com] 


© You are THERE 

Oscar.com Want to know what it's 
like to be ushered to a front-row seat 
on the big night? Here's your chance 
to experience the red-carpet treat- 
ment—up close and personal via 
360-degree surround photos of last 
year's event. [oscar.com] 


© pw you know? 

Oscar, Oscar! Produced by a de- 
voted cineast, this homegrown site 
unearths plenty of fun facts. This 
one's among the most mind-bog- 
gling: Today's Oscar telecasts sub- 
ject viewers to a marathon, but back 


¥ in 1958, host Jerry Lewis actually 
P| 


had 20 minutes of extra airtime to 
| fill. foscarworld.net] —_ LINDAKELLY 


DESIGNER DIANE VON FURSTENBERG ~ 


TICKET BROKERS This globe-trotting de- _ EXPEDIA.COM Sometimes | get a call that I 
signer has acquired the have to be someplace else in the world next 
USER EXCHANGE ultimate Internet status | week, and I plan my complete trip here. 1 


OpenSeats.com Some sites, such symbol: his-and-her Web sites. While love that you can do itall by yourself, in the 


VON FURSTENBERG: JACK CHUCK/CORBIS OUTLINE; COBAIN: CHARLES PETERSON/RETNA 


as Playbill On-Line [playbill.com] 
and Ticketmaster [ticketmaster. 
coml, are great for buying tickets to 
Broadway shows and other events. 
But what if you're seeking seats for 
a hot show such as U2's Elevation 
tour, which sold out in minutes in 
most cities? This eBay-like exchange 
for buyers and sellers has the broad- 
est selection we found, with more 
than 75,000 registered users offer- 
ing tickets to events in 46 cities 
(including some in Canada). There's 
no fee to post or access listings; 
OpenSeats asks users to pay a “vol- 
untary success fee” of 5 percent of 
the ticket price when they complete 
an exchange. [openseats.com] 


(>) RESALE CENTRAL 
TicketCity.com Don't want to deal 
with individual sellers? Try Ticket- 
City, which purchases tickets from 
box offices, season holders, and 
other resellers. The site is certified 
by the National Association of Ticket 
Brokers, and ifit fails to come through 
ona promised order, it actually is- 
sues a 200 percent refund. The trade- 
off: TicketCity's prices are often 
higher than the best deals available 
on OpenSeats. Iticketcity.com] 


(> PREMIUM SPORTS 

Frontrow.com OpenSeats and Ticket- 
City get you into arts-related per- 
formances and regional athletic 
contests, but for the elite sporting 
events, Frontrow is your best source. 
It handles college and pro games 
and brokers premium events such 
as Wimbledon, the Super Bowl, and 
the Winter Olympics. Be prepared 
to fork over big bucks: The Wim- 
bledon packages, which include air- 
fare from the U.S., start at $4,000. 
[www.frontrow.com] DEAN FOUST 


hubby Barry Diller yentures online with 


the recently acquired Expedia.com, she 


maintains her own fashionable presence 
at Diane von Furstenberg [dvf.coml. Some of 


her favorite sites: 


zine, with runway reviews and video high- 


the shows the very next day, [style.com] 


middle of the night if you want, fexpedia.com] 


EBAY I think eBay is the most revolution- 
ary idea. Although I've never bought any- 


thing there myself, it amuses me to see my 


vintage designs up at auction, [ebay.com] 


STYLE.COM It’s like a great fashion maga- | 
_ THE NEW YORK TIMES ON THE WEB When 
lights. 1 especially appreciate the fact that — 
you can go online and see collections from 


1 am traveling abroad, the first thing I read 
(after I check my e-mail) is the Times on the 
| Web. [nytimes.com]. SUSAN BRESLOW SARDONE 


DEAD ROCK STARS 


© crim REAPERS 

Fuller Up, The Dead Musician 
Directory; The Dead Rock Stars 
Club Rock ‘n’ roll may never die, but 
those who create it often die young. 
From the classic heroin ODs to 
the more unlikely causes of death 
(Toto's Jeff Porcaro succumbed to 
an insecticide), Fuller Up details how 
those who dared to play the devil's 
music left this mortal coil. For a con- 
tinually updated roll call of the de- 
ceased, visit “the club rock stars are 
dying to get into." [elvispelvis.com/ 
causesofdeath.htm]; [users.efortress. 
com/doc-rock/deadrock.htmll 


© tHe eno 


The Kingdom of Morrison Maybe 
it's his dark, morbid lyrics or the ro- 
mantic circumstances of his death 
from heart failure at the age of 27 
(found sitting up ina Paris hotel bath- 
tub, a smile on his face), but Doors 
vocalist Jim Morrison remains the 
paradigm of the rock star whose light 
burns out faster than a shooting star's. 
Break on through to the other side 
with a large selection of articles and 
pictures of the Lizard King, reminis- 


cences by friends and fellow Doors, 
information on finding Jim's grave, 
and much more. [geocities.com/ 
SunsetStrip/Palms/2914] 


© utero 

The Kurt Cobain Internet Shrine 
The Nirvana front man was 27 when 
he shot himself full of smack and 


bullets—the same age Jim Morri- 
son, Jimi Hendrix, and Janis Joplin 
were when they died. This site deals 
plenty of dope on the man some fans 
believe wife Courtney Love drove to 
his death—a theory you won't find 
debated in the Kurt Cobain forum 
("Please, no murder theories!”). 
Ikurt-cobain.com] FRANK GREEN 


wwwyil.com »March 2002 91 


i i 7 
1] a cc 
a 


- 


recreation 


A GOOD TIME TO GO 


Online travel has never been more affordable 


eo Yes, the world of t 


and fewer passengers after 


k economy 


eptember 11 


have reduced the number of flights. And long waits for security 


clearance can make airport check-in a drag, Still, this may be as 


good a time to travel as any in recent memory. Here's why: 


FARES ARE LOWER Since unfilled s 


any good, the bargains are superb 


don't do the airlines 


s senior analyst Henry 
Harteveldt of Forrester Research. “And the best place to get 
“When ther 


them is online,” Harteveldt re war or 


a promotion, the Web is often the first place it turns up.” 


LAST-MINUTE OPPORTUNITIES ABOUND According to Site59 
Isite59.coml CEO Michelle Peluso (see “Romantic Trips,” page 


93), 20 percent of purchases are made a day before departure, 


and 80 percent of travelers buy within seven days. “Now, more 


than ever, people don’t want to plan ahead for travel,” Peluso says. 


92 Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


In response to the perceived trend, the site recently began offering 
its eleventh-hour escape packages in conjunction with Priceline.com. 


CUSTOMER SERVICE IS BETTER In the wake of the terrorist 
strikes, it became more important than ever for sites to commu- 
nicate quickly with consumers. Within 15 minutes after the Fed- 
eral Aviation Administration ordered planes grounded on September 
11, Orbitz orbitz.coml we 
phone, pager, and its site, with updates on airport status, flights, 


s in contact with customers via e-mail, tele- 


and safety policies, says chief executive Jeff Katz. Online travel 


agents met the challenge then, and they continue to do so. 


NEW YORK IS ON SALE ‘To tempt tourists back to the Big Apple, 
NYC & Company [nycvisit.com] launched Freedom Packages, 
offering deep discounts on hotels, Broadway shows, and restau- 
rants through March 31. “Now is probably the best time for a 
leisure traveler” to book a trip to New York, Harteveldt says. 


WINERY TOURS 


© cuosal VARIETALS 

Vine2wine.com Filled to the brim 
with information, this abundant 
directory links to wineries and vine- 
yard tours worldwide, from Slove- 
nia to Tasmania to India. Whether 
you're looking for a romantic B&B 
getaway or a good old-fashioned 
backpacking trip, planning a spir- 
ited vacation never tasted so good. 


[vine2wine.com] 


@vvetevm: 

French Wine Explorers Soak up 
the rustic countryside while sam- 
pling the wealth of classic wine-pro- 
ducing regions such as Champagne, 
Alsace, Beaujolais, and Provence. 
Join a small group tour, create a cus- 
tomized trip with a private som- 
melier, and even enjoy a six-course 
wine-tasting dinner in a Parisian 
bistro. Travel arrangements are made 
for you—all you have to do 
is show up with a thirst for 
experience. [wine-tours- 
france.com] 


© water To wine 
TraVent Cruise to interna- 
tional ports both traditional 
(the coast of Italy) and exotic 
(the Society Islands) while 
learning from oenophiles 
and vintners aboard the ship 
how to distinguish fine bou- 
quets. [finewinetravel.com] 
LINDA KELLY 


SKIMBATS: OTTO SUNNARI; PORTRAIT COURTESY OF ROBERT YOUNG PELTON 


ROMANTIC TRIPS - 


© Passion To Go 

Lovetripper.com Whether romance 
to you means watching the sunset 
from a Maui beach or riding the rails 
through Mexico's Copper Canyon, 
the well-traveled editors of this on- 
line magazine offer trail-tested ad- 
vice to lovers of every stripe. Get 
tips on everything from planning 
destination weddings to “gambling 
on love” in Macao. lovetripper.com] 


© city oF Licht 

Paris Convention and Visitors 
Bureau With its sidewalk cafés, 
legendary nightlife, and charming 
culs-de-sac, Paris is a 
haven for sweethearts. 
The city's official site 
can guide you to all 
the hot spots: Steal 
a kiss atop the Eiffel 
Tower, stroll hand 
in hand along the 
Seine, or explore the 
Pére Lachaise ceme- 
tery—the final rest- 
ing place of Oscar Wilde, Edith 
Piaf, and other romantic souls. 
[www.paris-touristoffice.coml 


® INN-TIMATE GETAWAYS 
TravelGuides.com Pamela Lanier's 
savvy guide to bed-and-breakfasts 
is searchable by location and fa- 
cilities, including settings conducive 
to romance. Pick your fancy, pack 
your bags, and grab your mate for 
a cozy retreat. Looking to splurge? 
Click over to Elegant Small Hotels 
for luxury digs from Anguilla to 
Zimbabwe, including all 50 U.S. 
states. [travelguides.com] 


(©) ELEVENTH-HOUR ESCAPES 
Site59 The travel site for sponta- 
neous souls, Site59 offers hundreds 
of high-quality discount flight and 
hotel packages to destinations in 
North America, the Caribbean, and 
Europe. [site59.com] ALEXIS ADAMS 


ALL DOWNHILL 
Ski Moguls, powder, steeps...if 
God didn't want us to enjoy win- 
ter, why create snow? Using the 
venerable Ski magazine's resort 
rankings and reviews, forum feed- 
back, and a convenient link to 
MySkiTrip.com, you can quickly 
plana slopes vacation. Whet your 
appetite with the live mountain 


cams and the Women Who Rip 
slide show (for maximum impact, 
click up to Huge). [skimag.com] 


SLOPES LESS TRAVELED 
Cross Country Ski Areas Associ- 
ation Use the resort guide to lo- 
cate cross-country trails throughout 
the U.S. and Canada. You'll also find 
daily snow reports for U.S. sites and 


“The most dangerous thing 
in the world is ignorance,” 
says Pelton, author of The 
World's Most Dangerous Places. At press time, 


Pelton was heading to war-torn Afghanistan, 


where he spoke to American Taliban fighter _ 
John Walker for the exclusive, controversial _ 
interview aired by CNN in December. Be- 
yond his own Dangerous Places [comebackalive. 


com/dfl, he recommends these destinations: 


BBC NEWS The BBC offers the best coverage 
of the entire world. Inews.bbc.co.ukl 


resorts and an equipment direc- 
tory that includes snowshoes, 
sleds, and pulks as well as classic 
Nordic gear. Don't want to leave 
Fido behind? Check XC Skiing with 
Your Dog. Ixcski.org] 


CUTTING EDGE 
Snowboarding.com As its name 
suggests, this site is an all-access 
pass to snowboarding news, events, 
instruction, and gear—not to men- 
tion the sport's latest high-adren- 
aline rush: mountainboarding, 
which allows extreme athletes to 
traverse not just snow but ice, slush, 
mud, and rocks. Amaze your friends 
while achieving suborbital veloc- 


__ ity over virtually any steep terrain. 


[snowboarding.com] 


SNOWBIRDS 


Skywings Leave it to the Finns to 


extract maximum thrills from a long 
winter. Using ultralight Skimbats, they 
“wingsurf" across snow and ice. Find 
out how it's done by watching Quick- 
Time movies, and read about the 
history of ice surfing. Iskywings.fil 

CARL FRANZ, LORENA HAVENS. 


DANGER FINDER ROBERT YOUNG PELTON bei 


YAHOO! NEWS: WORLD FULL COVERAGE Get 
_ stories by country, with links to local media to 
learn what's going on beyond the tourist 
dribble. [dailynews.yahoo.com/fc/world] 


OSAC: OVERSEAS SECURITY ADVISORY COUN- 

_ CIL Consult this listing of global conflicts and 
incidents before you officially book that ex- 
otic excursion. [www.ds-osac.org] 


_ CDC: TRAVELERS’ HEALTH Prior to departure, 


[cdc.gov/travell 


check here for region-specific health concerns. 


HEIDI LAFLECHE = 


www.yil.com >March 2002 93 


MON MA R 


HOME LOANS ON THE FLY 


Well, not quite yet—but you can find great rates on the Net 


(>) For a generation of homeowners who burned with envy 
when Uncle Marvin boasted of the 5 percent mortgage he took 
out back in the 1950s, the recent plunge in interest rates has been a 
once-in-a-lifetime boon. With the Federal Reserve trying to revive 
the economy by providing easy credit, mortgage rates have plunged 
to levels not seen in decades. And finding the right mortgage isn’t 
as hard as it used to be: LendingTree [lendingtree.com], Bankrate.com, 
Quicken.com: Quicken Loans [quickenloans.coml, and other sites let 
prospective homeowners shop for the best rate from local lenders. 

Alas, while the Net can help you find the cheapest mort- 
gage, chances are you'll still have to complete the transac- 
and bundles 
of old bank statements. That’s because lenders still haven't 


tion the old-fashioned way—with pen, paper, 


determined how to digitize the blizzard of paperwork 
required for getting a mortgage—much less bring along oth- 
er players, such as the county clerks who hold deed and tax 
records. “It’s still largely an offline process,” notes Matthew 
Carrick, an analyst at Gémez, Inc., adding that a paperless 
transaction is “probably just two years away.” 

Still, Carrick says, some e-lenders are making some head- 
way. Wells Fargo [wellsfargo.com] now allows existing mortgage 
holders with prior records on file to refinance online, with little 
paperwork involved, InterFirst linterfirst.coml is conducting almost 


the entire mortgage process online, although access currently is 


94 Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


fide 


limited to the company’s own nationwide network of 5,300 bro- 


k 


as 


ers. So, homeowners, take heart: Your next mortgage might be 
cheap as your Uncle Marvin's, and a lot easier to get. (For 


more tips on home-buying online, see Web Lab, page 98.) 


ONLIN 


BARGAIN HUNTERS 


ONE-STOP SHOP 
FatWallet.com Key in to a passel of 
hot savings at one handy site. Among 
the huge spectrum of recent deals: 
$100 off a Dell home computing sys- 
tem; a Ford Ranger rental truck at 
Budget for $20 per day; and a free 
watch (with purchase) from Yves 
Rocher's boutique. [fatwallet.com] 


NOT JUST FOR GEEKS 
Techbargains.com This recent Y-Life 
Gold Star winner features great dis- 
counts on computer hardware and 
electronic gadgets of every stripe. 


Also, click Family Coupons to get free 
shipping and dollars-off offers from 
BananaRepublic.com, DisneyStore. 
com, and dozens of other brand-name 
merchants. [techbargains.com] 


DEAL ALERTS 
Amazing-Bargains.com Here you 
can find a, well, amazing array of 
offers, rebates, and discounts in a 
plethora of categories—about 100 
in Home & Garden alone. Sign up 
for the Alert newsletter so you don't 
miss out. [amazing-bargains.com] 

PAMELA DES BARRES 


ALEX AND LALIA/GETTY IMAGES 


HOME OFFICE: ROBIN LYNNE GIBSON/GETTY IMAGES; GARDEN TOOLS: COURTESY OF SMITH & HAWKEN 


WORK AT HOME 


© ser up sHop 

FreeAgent.com: Resources Have 
you been downsized, replaced, or 
pink-slipped? Jokes about work- 
ing in bunny slippers aside, free- 
lancing from home offers flexibility— 
plus isolation, feast-or-famine work 
flow, and lost benefits. Do you have 
what it takes to make it on your 
own? This site provides advice on 
how to market your services and 


conduct yourself professionally. Then 


go ahead and buy the bunny slip- 
pers. [freeagent.com/resource] 


© mom on Top 

iVillage: Home Business Although 
geared toward “mompreneurs," the 
articles and discussions here ring 
true for mom-and-pop operations. 
Topics include advice on how to main- 
tain a healthy work style (remember, 
you're one box of chocolates away 
from becoming an unemployed 
soap-opera addict). livillage.com/ 
topics/work/homebus] 


© FRINGE BENEFITS 
Insure.com: Health Insurance One 
of the biggest challenges to the 


self-employed is maintaining med- 
ical coverage without breaking the 
bank. Insure's FAQ has tips about 
extending your benefits under Co- 
bra, choosing a health care plan, 
and qualifying for group rates. The 
Get a Quote section lets you com- 
pare plans in certain states; if you 
live outside those areas, you might 
need to contact Small Business 
Service Bureau, Inc. [sbsb.com] 
to see what's available. linsure. 
com/health] 


© 1x matters 

IRS.gov: Small Business and Self 
Employed Community April 15 is 
on the horizon, and when you don't 
have an employer making auto- 
matic deductions, dealing with 
Uncle Sam can be a part-time job 
in itself. For a general rundown 
on self-employment obligations, 
read the tax-related articles at 
FreeAgent.com. Then hop over to 
this site for specific regulations and 
fesources, categorized by profes- 
sional field, as well as a ton of PDF 
forms, forms, and more forms. www. 
irs.gov/smallbiz] HEIDI LAFLECHE 


NET-BRANDED CREDIT 


Hard plastic from e-commerce sites 


TRAVELOCITY.COM: WORLD MASTERCARD Every dol- 
lar charged on the card earns a point toward free or dis- 
counted travel through Travelocity: Unlike some frequent-flier 
cards, this one has no blackout or expiration dates. The 


card charges a 13.4 percent annual percentage rate. It car- 


ries no annual fee the first year, but cardholders will pay 


$50 per year after that. [travelocitycard.com] 


EBAY First USA levies a 14.99 percent APR on the eBay 


Platinum Visa card, which carries 
no annual fee, You're entitled to re- 
ceive a onetime $10 credit toward 
eBay charges if you agree to have 
them automatically placed on your 
monthly statement. febay.com] 


ww. rbay.con 


BI 2st Sure aike 


- PAYPAL Practical for frequent eBay buyers and 


sellers, the PayPal ATM ‘debit card links to your bank ac- 
| countand lets you easily pay for online auctions and offline 
purchases. When used as an ATM card, there's a $1 service 
fee—so don’t leave home without your regular bank card, 


too. [paypal.com] 


GARDENING GOODS 


© atrustep source 

National Gardening Founded as 
a nonprofit network of home culti- 
vators in 1972, National Gardening 
now bills itself as the Net's largest 
syndicator of horticultural advice, 
and it provides abundant infor- 


| mation for all U.S. climes. The as- 


sociation’s garden shop stocks 


| everything from windowsill planters 


to greenhouses, while the Buyers 
Guide provides links to dozens of 
quality dealers. [garden.org] 


©) THE SEED KING 

Burpee With a century and a quar- 
ter in the biz, Burpee is a trusted 
name. Browse the copious cata- 


| log of herb, flower, and vegetable 


seeds, and get frequent gift and 
discount incentives with your 
online orders. [burpee.com] 


© bicoIne THE DIRT 

Smith & Hawken This company 
imports fine European tools and 
markets its own brand of English- 
styled implements for pruning, dig- 


a 


ging, watering, and composting. 
Smith & Hawken is geared toward 
gardeners of means, but not every- 
thing is expensive: The heirloom 
hand trowel costs $15. And any plebe 
can seek free advice from the Gar- 
den Guru. [smithandhawken.com] 

DONALD MILLER 


wwwzyil.com »March 2002 97 


eae d star sites 


AN COHEN 


WE TEST ONE CATEGORY IN DEPT 


NVELOPES, PLEASE BY 


BEST HOME-BUYING SITES 


thomeadvisor.coml is a boon to prospective buyers—and with 


its no-fee listings, the site isa risk-free proposition for real es- 


tate agents as well. Little wonder that it’s back in first place for 


the second year running, Plenty of other worthy resources can 
also help you grasp the complex world of home mortgages, fix 


that fixer-upper, and assist with the move. Your next home 


+) This ought to be a great time for home-buying sites. In- 


terest rates are at their lowest levels in years, and houses are 


selling at record levels. Even in the months after September 11, 


sales continued to grow, according to the National Association 
of Realtors, which estimates that more than 50 percent of 
home buyers now turn to the Web for help. Still, several of the 
sites we looked at last year are now struggling to survive. 
Homestore.com lost $106.6 million in the third quarter of 
2001—and then saw its stock drop to $3.60 a share (from its 


year high of $37.25) after Nasdaq halted trading of its shares 


because of questionable accounting practices. Homes.com is 
under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. And HomeSeekers. 
com has lost most of its top management. 

What went wrong? According to Blanche Evans, editor 
of Realty Times [realtytimes.coml, the sites failed to generate 
successful leads for real estate agents, who paid hefty fees to 


“Realtors 


subscribe—and now those brokers are pulling bac! 
are used to putting an ad ina paper and getting a call from some- 
ns. “On the 
Internet, that person may not be ready to buy for six months.” 
es do get it. With its 


one who wants to see that house that day; 


Some si 


But there’s good news 


extensive tutorials and financing tools, MSN: HomeAdvisor 


98 Yahoo! Internet Life» March 2002 


may not be a castle, but these sites will improve the odds, 


BEST OVERALL 
MSN: HOMEADVISOR [homeadvisor.com] 
In just about every way, HomeAdvisor 
bests the competition: It’s easier to use, 
its neighborhood statistics are more 


thorough, it's better organized. And 
while its chief rival, Homestore.com, 
claims to have more listings, Home- 
Advisor has more than enough to keep 
you house-hunting for a few months. 
That said, we need to temper our 
enthusiasm, because not much has 
changed since we looked at the site 
last year. A couple of new features 
have been added, and the listings are 
fresh (unlike those at some other sites), 
but come on, guys, after 12 months, 
we expect to see more cool stuff—and 
not, as seems to be the case, more ads. 
Is this the best home-buying site on 
the Web? Yes. Could it be even better? 
You bet. Which brings us to Home- 
store. If HomeAdvisor looks much as 


it did last year, Homestore looks as 
if it's been frozen in ice. Sure, we still 
like the gigantic database of listings 
(1.7 million strong) and the ability to 
search for homes with virtual tours, 
but the site's design was stale two 
years ago, and its school and neigh- 
borhood reports are awkwardly 
integrated. Yahoo! Real Estate 
[realestate.yahoo.coml holds the 
honor of being the only site in our 
roundup to include offerings from 
individual sellers (in addition to bro- 
kers). However, its listings are rel- 
atively scarce, and the site's tuto- 
tials need more breadth. HomeGain 
Thomegain.coml, our longtime fave 
for finding an agent, has branched 
out to include listings compiled from 
many other sites (including major 
agencies); its search interface re- 
mains a bit too basic (not enough 
criteria), but its home-valuation tool 
is one of the best online. Finally, 
RealHome.com offers decent home- 
buying tutorials (HomeAdvisor's are 
better), but some listings are out-of- 
date and many of the features that 
are free elsewhere, such as recent 
neighborhood sales, come ata cost. 


DRIVEWAY: MATTHEW HRANEK/A*C ANTHOLOGY 


WORKER: PHOTOMONDO/GETTY IMAGES 


REALTY TIMES: LOCAL 

MARKET CONDITIONS 

__ Trealtytimes.com] 

Are prices rising? Falling? Are homes lingering on 
the market or selling faster than tickets to a Mel 
Brooks musical? Click this link on the Realty Times 
home page and you'll get city-by-city reports from 
local real estate agents who magnanimously share 
their insights with you (okay, so they want you to 
check out their listings, too). Reports tend to be 


how the local market is faring (although, for some 
cities, the scoop can be a month old or more). 


MSN: HOMEADVISOR: HOME VALUATION 
thomeadvisor.com] 
Most home-buying hubs offer some version of this 


offers the exact address and price of local sales, 
but also plots those homes on a map so that you 
can see accurately where they are. The site can even 
link you to those nearby properties for sale (at least 
on HomeAdvison), giving you a feel for the market. 
Still more info can further help you negotiate the 
price you're willing to pay: when the house was 
built, its lot size, past sale prices (if applicable), and 
Previous sale prices for similar homes nearby, 


| REALESTATEJOURNAL: CITY PROFILES 
j [realestatejournal.com/cityprofiles] 
"Here's another ubiquitous tool: the city profile. But no 


brief, but you'll get a quick and useful glimpse of — 


tool, but HomeAdvisor's is our favorite. Itnot only 


other home-buying site provides this level of market 
detail. You'll find statistics on local sales, such as the 
median home-resale price, and what a single-family, 
four-bedroom home typically costs in various parts 
of the region ($353,000 in New York's Westchester 
County and a staggering $1.14 million in Manhattan, 
as of 1999). You get all sorts of tidbits about the city, 
too, such as the number of golf courses and zoos. 
Heck, money's not the only consideration, 


PLANET REALTOR 

[planetrealtor.coml 

Granted, this site won't help everyone, as it provides 
links to just 20 state associations of real estate agents. 
Buta click on Florida reveals listings from all over the 


__ state—and in the months (and years) to come, you 


might be seeing more such regionally based sites, 


_ where you can get a full range of local listings. New 
__tules in the realty industry are enabling brokers to share 
listings online, which means that your neighborhood 


agent may soon have expanded offerings. How this 
bodes for the major national hubs is unclear. But if 


__ these local sites grow and prosper, they'll become 
_ yet another viable means of finding your next home. 


|__BEST APARTMENT RENTALS 


HOMESTORE.COM 
[homestore.com] 

If Homestore's apartment-listing 
section looks familiar, that’s because 
it's the site formerly known as 
SpringStreet, last year's winner for 
best rentals. What we liked about this 
site then holds true now: It's got more 


listings than the competition (909 
apartment rentals between $1,000 
and $2,000 in San Francisco) and 
more extras, too (for some listings 
you can schedule appointments di- 
rectly from the site or take a virtual 
tour). Search for corporate or senior 
housing, or rentals near a specific 
college. And the site caters to all 


ee 


budgets: Listings range from cut- 
rate to luxury. Note, however, that in 
some big cities, the most affordable 
listings often come from pay-for 
partner sites that require a sepa- 
rate registration and payment. 


BEST FIXER-UPPER 
RESOURCE 

IMPROVENET 
| limprovenet.com] 
_ The fixer-up home may come cheap, 
but there's another price to pay: the 
fixing-up part. ImproveNet helps 
you manage renovation projects of 
all sizes. For the small stuff, such as 
plumbing repairs, you can schedule 
appointments online. For ambitious 
tasks, such as taking out a wall, 
ImproveNet sends your job de- 
scription to some 30,000 contrac- 
__ tors; those interested then contact 


you with their offers. And for any 


www.yil.com> March 2002 


middle-of-the-night home-owning 
hassles (like water filling up the 
basement while you're watching 
Nick at Nite), browse the helpful mes- 
sage boards and FAQs. 


MONSTERMOVING.COM 
[monstermoving.com] 


Most of the major home-buying sites 
have a relocation section that will in- 
variably serve up packing tips and 

_ perhaps link you to a mover or two. 
Our advice: Skip these sites and head 
to Monstermoving. Sure, it's got the 
tips and the checklists, but it also has 
a wealth of terrific resources, such 
as a free tool to cancel, add, and trans- 
fer utilities and newspaper sub- 
scriptions (it works with most major 
vendors); a free change-of-address 
service; links to temporary housing 
providers and truck rental compa- 
nies; and instant estimates from 
movers. Save some time, save your 
back, save some bucks. 


| BEST BUYER'S TUTORIALS 
MSN: HOMEADVISOR 
[homeadvisor.com] 
Buying a home isn't that big a deal— 
if you've already purchased a jet air- 
plane, a small company, or anything 
else that takes months, requires 
lawyers, and involves more jargon 
than a neurology textbook. Good 
thing HomeAdvisor's tutorials can 
walk you through. It's a long walk, 
to be sure, but you'll learn every- 
thing you'd ever want to know about 
the home-buying process, from what 
questions to ask when you tour a 
house to what kind of escape clause 
to put into a contract in case your 
financing falls through. It's all ex- 


pertly presented in readable, tip- 
laden bursts that smarten you up 
without wearing you down. 


| NEWHOME SOURCE 
[newhomesource.com] 
One sure way to avoid rusting pipes, 
rotting walls, or the ghost in the attic 
is to buy or build a brand-spanking- 
new abode. NewHome Source is 
__ rather new itself, having come online 
only last year. But its database of 
freshly constructed properties is more 
than 200,000 listings strong, com- 
piled from the site's 66 builder-part- 


ners. Most listings are chock-full of 
pictures and floor plans, and if you 
already have the land, you can search 
for a builder to put up the house. 


|_BEST REAL ESTATE NEWS 

REALTY TIMES 
[realtytimes.com] 

You don't need to follow the pub- 
lishing industry to buy a John Grisham 
novel, but real estate is a different 
matter. With prices and interest rates 
constantly fluctuating, home buyers 
who aren't in a hurry need to know 
the best time, and place, to buy. Re- 
alty Times does a crack job of keep- 


ing you up-to-speed on industry 
trends, and its Monday Mortgage Re- 
view gives a good overview of where 
interest rates are, where they are 
heading, and what it all means to you. 
Particularly useful is the Local Market 
Conditions link, where agents weigh 
in on how their own markets are far- 
ing. (For more on local resources, see 
“A Closer Look,” opposite page.) 


|_ BEST FINANCING TIPS 
REALESTATEJOURNAL 
[realestatejournal.com] 
For most home buyers, financing is 
the trickiest part of the process. Do 


you want an adjustable-rate loan? Is 
it time to refinance? Beats us—but 
not the ace reporters and analysts 
at RealEstateJournal, a Wall Street 
Journal site. Learn about prepayment 
penalties (often a nasty surprise when 
you go to refinance your mortgage), 
float-down options on loans (letting 
you borrow at a fixed rate and ad- 
just it later if the market changes), 
condominium ownership, and why 
raiding your IRA to finance a home 
might not be prudent. The best part: 
Unlike WSJ.com's main site, content 
here is free—leaving you with more 
bucks for that down payment. = 


THE BASICS 


RESEARCH OVERALL 


LISTINGS | 


TOOLS | \| EXTRAS/CAVEATS 


Slick search interface. | 
| Home Tracker e-mails 
new listings and 
tells you when a 
listing that you 
saved sells. Excellent 
| home-valuation tool. 


| Some 1.2 million homes, 
| with more listings than 


Homestore in some 

areas, but far fewer 

in others. Listings 
are nicely presented, but 
the virtual tours are few, 


Lots of content, but lots of 
ads, too. Apply online for 


a loan. Apartment- 
rentals info lags be- 
hind Homestore's. 


Rarely, if ever, more than 
one photo per house. 


First-rate home-buying 
tutorials; lots of stats 


on neighborhood 
demographics. 
(even air quality). 


Good insurance and 
financing calculators. 


MSN: HOMEADVISOR 
[homeadvisor.com] 


| | 
Some 1.7 million homes, || So-so search interface 


| Site looks as dated as 
many with multiple pho- || (though the virtual tours 


a Happy Days rerun. 


Must fill out long form, 
with all contact info, to 


tos. More virtual are good). Home- access local school Excellent apartment- 
HOMESTORE-COM tours than Home- valuation too! tells reports. Little detail B | rental section. | 
Advisor. Many list- selling price of near- | in these or neigh- Thumbs down for | 


| ings offer an e-mail link 


| directly to the Realtor. 


| by homes, but often not 
their size—not much help. 


| borhood reports. Tutorials 
cover only the basics. 


“articles” that are often 
plugs for advertisers. 


About a million homes, Limited search options, 
but sparse selection | but can search for virtu- 


in many of our test al tours. Home- 
areas. Upside: valuation tool tells 
Among the top selling price, but 


sites, only this one lists || not size, of nearby 
homes for sale by owner. homes—not much help. 


Good school and neigh- 
borhood stats. Real estate 
news stories from 
|B Inman News. Well- 
written, tip-laden 
Q&As—but there aren't 
nearly enough of them. 


Decent moving section. 
Real Estate message 


| boards either nearly 


empty or filled with 
es returned multiple 


spam. Some search- 
copies of the same listing. 


YAHOO! REAL ESTATE 
{realestate yahoo.com] 


| More than 800,000 
properties, from multiple 


sites (including fee- 
Gg based ones, where 
you'll have to pay to 


view the full listing). 
Some links are outdated. 


Limited search criteria. 
The site's bread-and-but- 


ter tool is its agent- 
finder, which asks 
you some questions 


and then gets proposals 
from various agents. 


Can get quotes from mul- | 
tiple movers (though it’s 


not a comprehen- 
C-] sive list). Something 
really needs to 


be done about those 
dead/outdated links. 


Pretty sparse tutorials, 
though you'll get the 
basics on purchase 
contracts, closings, 
and—of course— 
selecting an agent. 


HOMEGAIN 
[homegain.com] 


Some 800,000 homes. 
Small selection in many 


areas. Listings occa- 
sionally outdated; 
some failed to tell 


the number of bedrooms 
in a home—inexcusable. 


The RealHome “Univer- 

sity” is a bit oversold— 
HomeAdvisor does 

this better. Neigh- 
borhood and school 


information will cost you 
here (and here alone). 


Limited search options. 

The few tools here are 
provided by third 

parties who often 

} require fees (the 

| same tools are free on 

| | other sites). 

Jt 


| Message boards are a 
good idea in theory, but 
RealHome's have 
been virtually aban- 
doned. And did 


| we mention all the stuff 
| you've got to pay for? 


REALHOME.COM 
[realhome.com] 


HOW WE RATED THE SITES: We compared the quality and quantity of listings for homes in several ZIP codes, including Framingham, MA; Staten Island, NY; and San Francisco. We looked at 
how easy—or hard—it was to find homes with particular features. Then we put each site's tutorials through their paces. Testing took place in December 2001; grades do not reflect upgrades since then. 


100 Yahoo! Internet Life March 2002 


AN AMAZING 
IPLAC. 


DON? PAGED dae 
VANISH WITHOUT 
IN TRUACIS e 


1.800.CALL.WWF 
www.worldwildlife.org/act 


Yahoo! Internet Life's CyberShop the Latest and Most Internet Savvy Products and Services 


Welcome to MarketLINK DIRECT, your cybershop. We have created this section for you find the latest and most Internet savvy products 
and services. Watch as our section grows showcasing products you need and want. Look for HOT sites, training, education and self- 
improvement products. The list is endless. Why search on the Net when you can shop right here in the back of your favorite magazine, 
Yahoo! Internet life. Look for just about anything you can or can't find, in MarketLINK — DIRECT, the cybershop. 


Martin Kropf Aarron Woloff Kathy Rosa Osbourne Traill Jason Sparks 
212-503- 5067 212-503-4844 212-503-4847 212-503-3284 212-503-4849 


MARKETLINK SALES 1-877-267-2315 


Abacus America Inc. www.aplus.net 103 Inkfarm.com www.inkfarm.com 103 
ACCIS www.accis.edu 103 Network Web Hosting www.fatcow.com 103 
America’s Media Marketing = www.ammclass.com 104 Post Development Corp. 1-732-225-2727 107 
Ej Printing www.checksforless.com 102 Sinclair Intimacy Institute | www.bettersex.com 105 
A Foreign Affair myforeigniove.com 104 Tempur-Pedic 1-888-276-0968 104 
Gameday www.betgameday.com 106 Upgrade Source www.upgradesource.com 102 
Hotel Reservation Network www.hoteldiscount.com 104 


a 
Upgrading? 
The Hottest Computer Products. 


_ The Lowest Prices. - 


UpgradeSource.com Cac ecaaeata : 


The Computer Hardware You Want. Fax: 800.893.0177 Now offering toner/inkjet cartridges 
Email: info@checksforiess.com 


www.checksforless.com 


Ps eee 
ed Sg DIRECT 


Yahoo! Internet Life's CyberShop the Latest and Most Internet Savvy Products and Services 


«= FAST turn-around, low-cost shipping 
= Software compatibility guaranteed! 
be MS y 


CHECKS! 


www.upgradesource.com 
(800) 961-5889 


call 1-877-267-2315 today for Marketlink Direct advertising information 


102 Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


CW) 
[ i 


fatcow a year 


WEBHOSTING 


big hosting plan. 
simple price. 


e@ 100MB disk space 

® 100 email accounts 

e 5GB monthly transfer 

e@ Shopping Cart -aplus. net 
e Frontpage Extensions 


e CGI, PHP, MySQL ) State-of-the-art Webhosting 


e Control Panel www.aplus.net 
e Lots more! — Toll Free 877 A-PLUS-NET 
j ; 877-275-8763 


WWW.FATCOW.COM/YAHOO 


Toll Free: 1-866-404-2149 


ink & toner 


[ \] } y W here, + items, all with fla shipping per order 
=CIA 


L $2 discount: enter promo code “YU4”, 


4 ‘ 
m HEWLETT-PACKARD 

] Si 0 516454 HP 
y) rm brand led cartridge 


$020108 Orig. Epson }  C6578A New HP 


Inkfarm brand Refilled cartridge 
$020191 Orig, Epson 24.92 | C6578D New HP 


Inkfarm brand } 18230 New HP 
7007201 Orig. Epson 20.95 ed cartridge 
ee | 4 


Inkfarm brand 16.75 


the leading edge of learning. BROTHER GANON 


TN-430 Orig Brother 61.11 BCI-3bk Orig Canon 
| TN-460 Orig Brother 61.95, INKFARM brand 
Orig Brother 129.95 


Earn your college degree in computer 763 


science or information systems through ALPS QMS | MINOLTA 

ae 4 - 26.52 7 7 

ACCIS' distance education programs. i ‘ Sees ee 
! EI TEKTRONIX_ 
* Earn your B.S. or M.S. degree acer pa ns ae 
° No classes to attend — pare ss | 8 lor, high yield 
* Self-paced study | 4 
* VA eligible 
Color cart. 21.81 


* DANTES Affiliated NNOOWINOINNLONA Toner 114.44 

For a free catalogue American College 1-800-INKFARM 

Call 1 O00 aed af Computer 9 | n kfa rm } 

or visit WWW.GCClS-€GU Ts minrmationsSciences = aS 
the ‘ink & toner supersite’ : 


ACCREDITED MEMBER DISTANCE EDUCATION TRAINING COUNCIL 


Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


= 
> 
A 
AR 
m 
— 
2 
A 
i=] 
a 
m 
iz) 
+ 


e-biz 


fun ¢ e-home ¢ e-stuff © e-travel 


MEDIAMARKETING:« 
1-800-647-7902 www.ammclass.com 


www,MustSeeSites.com For 
Specials Offered By These Adve: 


MUSTSEEsiTEs 


t 

3 

www.yourcabin.com x ; 
Gatlinburg and Pigeon Forge TN Luxury cabin rentals with 

F stone fireplaces and hot tubs - special winter rates. 

E 

i 


www.WinMoreAuctions.com _ 
Win more auctions by bidding automatically 
at the last second! Signup is FREE! 


OF INTEREST TO ALL BUSINESS OPPORTUNIT! 


PUBLISH YOUR BOOK fora ite as $97.50 in 7 
7 AMERICAN DREAM Earn From Home 
teeta oe ee Internet/Mail Order $500-$7000/mo PTFT 


www.incomeforyou.com 1-800-300-9923. 
Cc AB LE TV BUY FORECLOSED PROPERTY! Use Our 
Dr Suen steno 


Money! Split Profits! Training! Free information: 
800-331-4555 ext. 181 wwrw.renovateamerica.com 


NEED MORE INCOME Growing Biz needs helo! 
'$1000-10,000 PTFT Training 
woew.TeamFromHome.com 


30 Day Trial 
Product Catalog 


1 Year Warranty 6050+ VACATION RENTALS 


http:/cyberrentals.com. Rent homes, villas, con- 
dos direct from owners. Call 1-800-628-0558 for 
FREE color magazing. CyberRentals.com 


HOTELS 


DISCOUNT HOTEL RATES Vegas‘New York" 


STOW 
ek a 
Omahi ee Orlando 177 Cities - up to 70% off. 1-B00-964- 


‘Al Majer Credit | 6835 hoteldiscount.com 


Cards Accs — = < 
800-554-2776 COD, shored CHILDREN'S PRODUCTS 
http: // www.arrowtek.com GOOD MUSIC FOR GOOD KIDS! G-rated 
Visit our naw Division at bigbangelectronics.com_| Rockin’ like “Slumber Party’ & Pajamas Of My 
Mind” make the GIRLBAND CD a FANTASTIC 
Gift! Hear free clips at wivw.girbandwagon.com 


Felt 


not seen. 


Because our miracle 
ww is on the inside... 


Our sleep technology is recognized by NASA, raved about by the 
media, extolled worldwide by over 25.000 sleep clinics and 
health professionals. Yet this miracle must be felt to be believed. 
While the thick, ornate pads that cover most mattresses are nec- 
essary to keep the hard steel springs inside. they create a ham- 
mock effect outside—and can actually cause pressure points. 
Inside our bed, billions of microporoscopic memory cells func- 
tion as molecular springs that contour precisely to your every 
curve and angle. They give your body perfect support. 


104 Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


AS SEEN ON 


CNN 
Upto 707 Off! 
hotel com 
1-800-309-5834 


NewYork, Orlando,LasVegas 
Over abi wari a) 


Meet 1,000's of sincere, marrlage-minded 
10 EXCITING DESTINATIONS 
In Russia, Ukraine, Latvia & Colombla,! 


«7 to 22 day tour options 

+5 Socials - 100’s of ladies 

* 4 Star Hotels 

*75,000+ photos 

* 1000's of suc- 
cessful marriages 
since 1995 


A foreign Affair, 46290 24% 


To receive your free demonstration kit, cal 


1-888-276-0968 


or send fax to: 1-859-514-4423 


but 


PRESSURE RELIEVING 
SWEDISH MATTRESS AND PILLOW 


4 TEMPUR PEDIC 


Tempur-Pedic, Inc. 1713 Jaggie Fox Way, Lexington, KY. 40511 


Tempur-Pedic’s Swedish scientists used NASA's anti-G-force 
research to invent—TEMPUR pressure-relieving material—a new 
kind of viscoelastic that reacts to body mass and heat. It self- 
adjusts to your exact shape. It’s the reason why millions love our 
high-tech Weightless Sleep system, the first new bed in 75 years. 
No wonder 3 out of 4 Tempur-Pedic owners go out of their way 
to recommend our Swedish Sleep System’ to close friends and 
relatives—and 82% tell us it’s the best bed they've ever had! 


Coupon brings you FREE DEMO KIT. Better yet. phone or fax. 


Sex Education For Me? 


Know-how is still the best aphrodisiac: 

Sexual techniques must be learned. Even if 

you are a good lover, you can benefit from 

The Better Sex Video Series. It is for normal : i 

adults who want to enhance : — 100% SATISFACTION 
their sexual pleasure. Watch it ri GUARANTEED! 
with someone you love. ‘ rs ; 


America’s Best-selling 
Sex-Ed Videos 

The Better Sex Video Series 
visually demonstrates and 
explains how everybody can 
enjoy better sex. Dr. Judy; Seifer, 
one of the country’s most 
respected experts on sexuality, 
guides you through erotic scenes 
of explicit sexual practices 
including techniques for the most 
enjoyable foreplay and inter- 
course. Order The Better Sex 
Videos today and take the first 
step to more enjoyment! 


Over Four Million Sold! 


2 FREE VIDEOS! 

Advanced Oral Sex Techniques, 
our new 30-minute video, is 
guaranteed to increase your love- 
making pleasure. Great Sex 7 Days 
A Week shows you even more 
creative ways to ignite intense sexual 
excitement. Get both videos FREE 
when you order today! 


WARNING: Couples who watch these explicit 


browse our entire video library at 
, Y videos together may become highly aroused. 
— 


www.bettersex.com 
se 


FOR FASTEST SERVICE WITH CREDIT CARDS OR A FREE BROCHURE, CALL 1.800.955.0888 ExrsyAHs 24 HOURS 


Plain Packaging Protects Your Privacy 


Zip 


I. CERTIFY THAT LAM OVER AGE 18 


y = no cash or C.0.D, 


Yahoo! Internet Life>March 2002 105 


= 
> 
BY 
ra 
m 
-| 
& 
=z 
ey 
= 
BA) 
m 
iz) 
—| 


e-home 


e-bet 


/ 


\/ JK 
ar 


cae Spor rts 


¢ SI Bets Accepted 

« Same Day Payouts 

» Free Comp Program 

© Huge Parlay Payouts 

e 24-Hour Wagering 

e Online or by Telephone 

@ Major Credit Cards Accepted 

e 15% Bonus with First Deposit 

¢ 10% Bonus with Further Deposits 


www.BetGameDay.com 


1-800-FUN-BETS (386-2387) 


International, Call 01 1-599-9-733-1255 


© GameDay International, N.V. Legally Licensed in the Netherlands Antilles 


106 


Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


¢ Keno 

© Blackjack 

Roulette 

© Slot Machines 

© Caribbean Stud 

¢ Video Poker 

© 17 Online Casino Games 
© Huge Progressive Jackpots 
@ 24-Hour Customer Service 


GAMEDA 


CASINO AND SPORTSBDOK 


We've got game 


INTRODUCING... 


“No matter how you 
look, how you dress, 
how much money you 
have, how timid or shy 
you are! Read this book, 
and you can pick up any 
girl you want... any 
time... anywhere! 


THE Fog, p 
PICKING Pa ne 


Guaranteed!” 


‘This book covers everything you need to be success- 

ful with women with simple, easy-to-follow, step- 
by-step instructions! If you're already a success with 
women, give this book to a friend! It's the perfect 

gift! Here are just some of what you'll learn... 

* So you've never picked up a girl before? No problem. 
¢ How to make girls come to you... on the street, at a party, in a bar, at work... anywhere at all! 
¢ The “shy guy's guide” to getting girls to talk to you, like you, want you, beg you for sex! 

* Six things any guy can do that no girl can resist! 

* How to have sex with a woman you've just met! k 

© Pick-ups are even easier when you're married! y/ i Thi | § boo® 
 Never-fail ways to satisfy any woman! 


5 easy ways to overcome sexual dysfunction! or gi” 
¢ Another man’s wife or girlfriend... easy pickin’s! wor 


PLUS... SPECIAL BONUS! 

“How to Dump a Woman the Easy Way!” Painlessly... with no hard feelings! And this is just the beginning! 
What you learn in this book will not only make you irresistible to women, it will help you radiate with 
confidence in all life’s encounters! 


SPECIAL LIMITED TIME 
MAIL ORDER PRICE 
$19.95 PLUS $5.95 S&H tone 


PD CORP. Please Make Check Or ke) Order 
100 Newfield Ave. Edison, N) 08837 Payable To PD C( 


Send Me copies of “The Foolproof Guide To Picking Up Women” 
at $19.95 plus $5.95 S&H for each copy. 


Call (732) 225-2727 were Money Order Visa Cl MasterCard = Discover © Amex 
OR MAI a a PON Credit Cord Number j : Expiration Date: 
e Signature 


ORDER TODAY: tes 


Yahoo! Internet Life > March 2002 


107 


LI34410 Pi 


If chest pain occurs, 
consult your physician 
BY SCOTT ALEXANDER 


TREAT YOUR 
MOTHER RIGHT 


MR. T: THESPIAN, WRESTLER, NANCY REAGAN 
confidant, rapper. Rapper? Oh, yes...rapper. 
And what a message this rapper has for to- 
day's youth: "When you put down one mother, 
you're putting down mothers all over the 
world." In true T style, he’s brought his friends 
along to help get his point across. Where 
else can you see Charlton Heston, Danger- 
Mouse, and the California raisins on the same 
bill? [uselessvoid.com/flash/tymr.swfl 


ALISON'S PANTSCAM 


ACCORDING TO THIS SITE, “YOU'VE ALWAYS 
wanted to get into Alison's pants.” Whether 
or not that's true, this is your chance, and we 
strongly suggest you grab it. The aforemen- 
tioned Miss Alison has decided to leverage 
her education and the absurd abundance 
of technology on Carnegie Mellon's cam- 
pus to share something very special with 
the world: the view from inside her trousers. 
(Note to the uninitiated: It's really, really 
dark in there.) [pantscam.com] 


PSEUDODICTIONARY.COM 


QUAINT THOUGH IT MAY BE, THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE IS WOEFULLY LIMITED. JUST ASK 
anyone who's tried to find a way to express that something is more than damned, but less 
than damndest. The correct answer is damnder, but do you think you're going to find 
that in a conventional dictionary? How about the opposite of insert? (Outsert.) Or what to 
call the gastric distress brought on by Mexican food? (PBS, aka Post-Burrito Syndrome.) 
Can you believe it? The next time you run across something that's just like a bucket full 
of bashed crabs, you'll have a word for it—mangky. [pseudodictionary.com] 


JUST NOT CRICKET 


IF THERE'S ONE THING THAT RAISES A 
cricketer's ire, it's badgers. Every time 
you turn around, they're burrowing onto 
the pitch, making ruts and humps in the 
finely manicured grass and using their 
razor-sharp teeth to rip the home team 
limb from limb. Now's your chance to 
club the little buggers into oblivion. Act 
quickly, though. Simeon Pantsgibbon 
and the rest of Maiden-Over-Firkle's 
brave batsmen need to finish the over. 
[bossmonster.com/e4/cricket/cricket.html] 


MOOLETTE.COM 


THE ONLY THING MORE ENTERTAINING THAN WATCHING A COW RELIEVE 
itself is betting on the outcome. Now you can enjoy this noble pas- 
time and ogle some saucy bovine “showgirls" as well. Moolette 
is the new game that makes losing money fun again with its fiendishly 
simple yet utterly disgusting concept: Mark a field off like a roulette 
table, take bets from the public, set loose a well-fed cow, and 
let the chips fall where they may. If you're lucky, you'll end up in 
deep doo-doo. [www.moolette.com] 


== GET YOUR 


YAHOO! INTERNET LIFE (ISSN 1088-0070) is published monthly by Ziff Davis Media Inc., 28 East 28th Street, New York, NY 10016-7930. Periodicals postage paid at New York, 
NY 10016 and additional mailing offices. The Canadian GST registration number is 865286033. Subscription rate is $1997 for 12 issues. Additional postage for orders outside the 
U.S.: Add U.S. $16 per year for surface mail. POSTMASTER: Send address changes to Yahoo! Internet Life, P.O. Box 53380, Boulder, CO 80328-3380. Canada Post International 


Publications Mail Product (Canadian Distribution) Sales Agreement No. 40009221. Printed in the U.S.A. 


108 Yahoo! Internet Life »March 2002 


FIX AT 


YA FREAK 


DAILY WEIRDNESS 
YIL.COM/STRANGE, 


MR. T: FOTOS INTERNATIONAL/ARCHIVE PHOTOS; JEANS: CHRIS HACKETT/GETTY IMAGES; BADGER: BOSSMONSTER.COM; MOOLETTE: INTERTOPS.COM 


MARCH 2002 
VISIT US ONLINE 
AT 
SJ FOR A CLICKABLE 
site address guide VERSION OF THE GUIDE 
a tearc-out index of the sites in this issue 
FEATURES>> @ HUGO BOSS | hugoboss.com | BBB: CHECK OUT A COMPANY | 
i FRESHPAIR.COM | freshpair.com search.bbb.org/national/search.html 
| WIRED HOOPS pages 56-61 @ LA PERLA | www.laperla.com | f@ PLANETFEEDBACK | planetfeedback.com 
@ NBA.COM | nba.com |W STUART WEITZMAN | stuartweitzmancom fl CONSUMER SENTINEL | 
1 MSN: ESPN | espn.com 1 BANANA REPUBLIC | bananarepublic.com consumer.gov/sentinel | 
1 FINALFOUR.NET | finalfour.net I ROCKPORT | rockport.com | 
@ FANSONLY | fansonly.com @ HICKEY FREEMAN | hickeyfreeman.com THE QUEST FOR THE HOLY 
tm JERKOFTHEWEEK.COM | @ JOHNSTON & MURPHY | GRAIL pages 80-85 
jerkoftheweek.com johnstonandmurphy.com | ME HANDSPRING | handspring.com 
l@ BASKETBALL NEWS | i J.M. WESTON | jmweston.com li TELEPONG | www.telepong.com 
basketballnews.com @ TED BAKER ONLINE | www.tedbaker.com @ MOTOROLA | motorola.com 
@ REALGM | tealgm.com 1@ POLO.COM | polo.com @ SENDO | www.sendo.co.uk 
lS INSIDEHOOPS.COM | insidehoops.com f@ LEVI'S | levicom l@ SAMSUNG ELECTRONIC USA | 
@ MSN: ESPN.COM'S AIRGAUGE | 1 GIORGIO ARMANI | emporioarmani.com samsungusa,com 
sports.espn.go.com/nba/airgauge/index CONCORD | www.concord.ch NOKIA | nokiausa.com 
@ SPORTINGNEWS.COM | l@ NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR | | 
sportingnews.com TIME TO FACE THE MUSIC national.com 
| YAHOO! SPORTS: MVP.COM'S TIPS | pages 70-73 1 PC-EPHONE | pc-ephone.com | 
BY MICHAEL JORDAN | sports.yahoo, ® EMUSIC | emusic.com ™@ KYOCERA | kyocera-wireless.com 
com/nba/news/yhoo/mvpindex.htm| |W FULLAUDIO | fullaudio.com | I DANGER | danger.com | 
§@ PGA TOUR RADIO | pgatourradio.com @ LISTEN.COM | listen.com 
= NBA.COM: AUDIO LEAGUE PASS | | fm PRESSPLAY | pressplay.com DEPARTMENTS>> 
nba.broadcast.com/audiolp REALONE | teal.com 
CBS SPORTSLINE.COM | sportsline.com |g NAPSTER | napster.com CLICK! page 25 | 
FANCAST | fancast.com |g AUDIOGALAXY SATELLITE | INSPIRED BY THE LIFE AND WORK | 
mm REMEMBER THE ABA | | aa aera | OF DAN ELDON | daneldon.org 
remembertheaba.com GROKSTER | grokster.com 
CNN SPORTS ILLUSTRATED | cnnsi.com 2 KAZAA | amie CLICK! AROUND THE NET page 28 | 
lm THE SPORTINGNEWS: FANTASY GAMES| mm MUSIC CITY MORPHEUS | | ME YAHOO! LAUNCH | launchyahoo.com | 
fantasygames.sportingnews.com musiccity.com @ HARRIS INTERACTIVE | 
| | www.harrisinteractive.com 
if WEB ADDRESSES CAME MGNOTELLA'|'gnotsllaxcom lm THEONERING.NET | theonering.net 
E | JAKE GYLLENHAAL | jakegyllenhaal.com 
Tia SHEE satel 269/17 NET SCAMS pages 74-79 tm THE OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF SAMANTHA 
HARTMANN | hartmann.com FTC | wwwftc.gov | 
| 9 | MUMBA | samanthamumba.com 
f@ KENNETH COLE | kennethcole.com 1 GIVE.ORG | give.org 
i T. ANTHONY LTD. | tanthony.com | l@ DOJ: SPECIAL REPORT ON POSSIBLE CLICK! HOME & OFFICE page 30 | 
@ COACH | coach.com FRAUD SCHEMES: SOLICITATIONS OF lm CNET SHAREWARE.COM | 
@ COLE HAAN | colehaan.com | DONATIONS FOR VICTIMS OF Siaieenigear - | 
NAUTICA | nautica.com TERRORIST ATTACKS | www.usdoj.gov/ | ww EYROCOOL | eurocool.com 
DONNA KARAN | www.donnakaran.com criminal/fraud/WTCPent-SpecRpt.htm rec 
ALLEN EDMONDS | mi FDA: BUYING MEDICINES AND IHANDANG OIL Fasdenso.con 
wwwallen-edmonds.com MEDICAL PRODUCTS ONLINE | \ i. CAME EARLCOMTI ea 
mm DOLCE & GABBANA | wwwida.govlocibuyonlinelenforce.htm! | gy FURNITUREFIND.COM |. 
www.dolcegabbana.it ll CONSUMERAFFAIRS.COM | Warcitaraindeae 
li SWATCH | swatch.com fairs, ; | 
: || <essonsumiaratfalneicom | IM INKSELL.COM | inksell.com 
@ GUCCI | gucci.com '@ FTC: LOTIONS AND POTIONS: THE 
IH ORIS | www.oris-watch.com | BOTTOM LINE ABOUT MULTILEVEL | CLICK! INCREDIBLY USEFUL | 
HAMILTON | www.hamiltonwatch.com MARKETING PLANS | www.fte.gov/ SITES pages 32-33 
f@ SWATCH GROUP | www.swatchgroup.com bcp/conline/pubs/alerts/lotionalrt.htm mm WWW.PHONENUMBERS.NET | 
I TAG HEUER | www.tagheuer.com i FTC BROADENS WARNINGS TO phonanumburknel 
SEIKO | seikousa.com MARKETERS OF BIOTERRORISM | m@ FORMOVIES.COM | formovies.com 
OMEGA | www.omega.ch DEFENSE PRODUCTS | www.ftc.gov/ lm FREEADVICE.COM | freeadvice.com | 
™ MOVADO | movado.com | opa/2002/01/round2web.htm | 1B ULTIMATE CHATLIST | chatlist.com 
 TOMMY.COM | tommy.com | MEFCC: CONSUMER INFORMATION ll FINANCEWISE | www.financewisecom | 
lB BREITLING | www.breitling.com BUREAU | www.fce.gov/cib I COLLECTORS UNIVERSE | collectors.com 
@ 2(XIIST | 2xist.com @ BBB | bbb.org @ ALLWORDS.COM: CROSSWORD | 
ll AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS | ae.com | Ml ICANN | icann.org SOLVER | allwords.com/solver 
JOE BOXER | joeboxer.com | BENFCC | nfce.org I POLLSTAR | pollstar.com | 
i MACYS.COM | macys.com | ORBITZ | orbitz.com lm YAHOO! FINANCE: STOCK SCREENER | 
| JOCKEY | www.jockey.com 1 SIDESTEP | sidestep.com | sereen.yahoo.com/stocks.html | 
1F A SITE WON'T LOAD, TRY TYPING WWW. BEFORE THE URL. 


@ METLIFE: PAINT CALCULATOR | 
metlife.com/Lifeadvice/Tools/Painteale 

lm MY WEDDING ORGANIZER | 
weddingsoft.com 

™@ STAY CONNECTED! | inklineglobal.com 

lm WEBWHACKER FOR PALM | 
bluesquirrel.com 


CLICK! OLD WAY/NET WAY 

pages 34-35 

™@ BESTBUY.COM | bestbuy.com 

™ APPLE | apple.com 

™@ DEBLEN ENVIRONMENTAL CO. | 
eartheartplus.com 

@ TIPS 4 TREES | oregonlink.com/treecare 

@ GARDENWEB | gardenweb.com 

@ TREEHELP.COM | treehelp.com 

@ UNITED | ual.com 


STYLE: SITES & SCENES page 38 

l@ ELUXURY | eluxury.com 

lM GARREN NEW YORK | garrennewyork.com 
@ LAFCO | lafcony.com 

@ GLOSS.COM | gloss.com 

i MACYS.COM | macys.com 

ll DRUGSTORE.COM | drugstore.com 


STYLE: BAZAAR page 39 

™@ SEPHORA.COM | sephora.com 
@ POLO.COM | polo.com 

@® MACYS.COM | macys.com 

@ ZIRH | zith.com 

@ GILLETTE | gillette,com 

@ REMINGTON | remington-products.com 
@ BRAUN | braun.com 

®@ GLOSS.COM | gloss.com 

@ ELUXURY | eluxury.com 

@ TOMMY.COM | tommy.com 


CONTENT pages 40-41 

™@ COWS | altx.com/ebooks/cows.html 

@ SPIRIT CREEK | spiritcreek.net 

@ LOUIELOUIE.NET | louielouie.net 

@ THE ELECTRIC SOFT PARADE | 
www.softparade.co.uk/esp.html 

@ TONY HAWK'S PRO SKATER | 
activisiono2.com/tony_hawk 

@ SEETHRUGAMES: INCRIMINATI | 
seethru.co.uk/games/incriminati 

@ THE VIRTUAL OFFICE | 
talkcity.com/bizcity/bee-cs.shtm| 

™@ GEOGRAPHY CHAT | 
geography.about.com/mpchat.htm 

@ DAVID ALDRIDGE ON THE NBA | 
espn.go.com/community/chat 

jm JOBS CONFERENCE | 
talkcity.com/bizcity/bec-cs.shtml 

@ THE A-LIST WITH ANTHONY 
DECURTIS | getmusic.com/shows/alist 

fm DECORATING STUDIO CHAT | 
decoratingstudio.com/chat_room.htm 


COOL TOOLS pages 43-46 

@ SONY AIBO | www.us.aibo.com 

@ FOSSIL WRIST PDA | fossil.com/pda 

lm SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS USA: 
MONITOR | samsungusa.com/monitor 

@ IPOD | apple.com/ipod 

™ SONICBLUE: REPLAYTV | replaytv.com 

@ YAMAHA | www.yamaha-motor.com 


WEB USER pages 48-50 
@ 3COM | 3com.com 


@ ULTRASOFT: SPACE ODYSSEY | 
www.ultrasoft.ro/page_so.htm. 

@ WHATIS.COM: EVERY FILE FORMAT 
IN THE WORLD | whatis.techtarget.com/ 
fileFormatA 

@ AT&T WORLDNET SERVICE | www.att.net 

1 YAHOO! MAIL | mail.yahoo.com 

@ SPOTLIFE | spotlife.com 

@ DIGITAL MEDIA WORKS: VIDEOMAIL 
STUDIO | videomailstudio.com 

@ INCREDIMAIL | incredimail.com 

f@ 4DEVELOPERS: TALKING E-MAIL | 
Adev.com/talkmail 

™@ EMAILALIBI.COM | emailalibi.com 

™ GOOGLE: ADVANCED 
SEARCH OPERATORS | 
google.com/help/operators.htm| 

@ WEBMD | webmd.com 

f@ CABLEHEAD SOFTWARE | 
cablehead.com 


PRETTY STRANGE page 108 

@ TREAT YOUR MOTHER RIGHT | 
uselessvoid.com/flash/tymr.swf 

i@ ALISON'S PANTSCAM | pantscam.com 

@ JUST NOT CRICKET | 
bossmonster.com/e4/cricket/cricket.html 

i PSEUDODICTIONARY.COM | 
pseudodictionary.com 

@ MOOLETTE.COM | www.moolette.com 


WEB GUIDE>> 


NEW, NOTABLE & FUN pages 88-89 

™® GLOSS.COM | gloss.com 

™@ SEARS.COM | sears.com 

@ CHEMICAL INDUSTRY ARCHIVES | 
chemicalindustryarchives.org 

f@ NUCLEAR THREAT INITIATIVE | nti.org 

® YAHOO! | yahoo.com 

YAHOO! MAIL | mail.yahoo.com 

MSN | msn.com 

NETWORK FOR GOOD | 

networkforgood.org 

RTE INTERACTIVE RADIO | 

www.rte.ie/radio 

CELTIC.COM | celtic.com 

GUINNESS.COM | guinness.com 

DAYPOP | daypop.com 

LIP MAGAZINE | lipmagazine.org 

DEVICES OF WONDER | getty.edu/art/ 

exhibitions/devices/choice.html 

SLEEPING GIANTS | kodak.com/US/en/ 

corp/features/sleepingGiants 

@ INET LIBRARY | inetlibrary.com 

fm NOVA ONLINE: TEACHERS | 
www.pbs.org/nova/teachers 

f@ ADVENTURE LEARNING FOUNDATION | 
questconnect.org 

l= MUSICPLAYGROUND | 
musicplayground.com 

f@ NEPTUNE MEDIASHARE | neptune.com 


ENTERTAINMENT & SPORTS 

pages 90-91 

@ ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE 
ARTS AND SCIENCES | oscars.org 

l@ OSCARWATCH | oscarwatch.com 

@ OSCAR.COM | oscar.com 

@ OSCAR, OSCAR! | oscarworld.net 

@ OPENSEATS.COM | openseats.com 

f™ PLAYBILL ON-LINE | playbill.com 

TICKETMASTER | ticketmaster.com 


™@ TICKETCITY.COM | ticketcity.com 

l@ FRONTROW.COM | www.frontrow.com 

@ FULLER UP, THE DEAD MUSICIAN 
DIRECTORY | elvispelvis.com/ 
causesofdeath.htm 

™@ THE DEAD ROCK STARS CLUB | 
users.efortress.com/doc-rock/deadrock.html 

f@ THE KINGDOM OF MORRISON | 
geocities.com/SunsetStrip/Palms/2914 

@ THE KURT COBAIN INTERNET SHRINE | 
kurt-cobain.com 


TRAVEL & RECREATION pages 92-93 

@ VINE2WINE.COM | vine2wine.com 

f@ FRENCH WINE EXPLORERS | 
wine-tours-france.com 

@ TRAVENT | finewinetravel.com 

@ LOVETRIPPER.COM | lovetripper.com 

@ PARIS CONVENTION AND VISITORS 
BUREAU | www.paris-touristoffice.com 

f@ TRAVELGUIDES.COM | travelguides.com 

® SITES9 | site59.com 

1 SKI | skimag.com 

™ CROSS COUNTRY SKI AREAS 
ASSOCIATION | xcski.org 

lS SNOWBOARDING.COM | 
snowboarding.com 

@ SKYWINGS | skywings.fi 


MONEY & SHOPPING pages 94-97 

fl FATWALLET.COM | fatwallet.com 

@ TECHBARGAINS.COM | techbargains.com 

jl BANANA REPUBLIC | 
bananarepublic.com 

'@ DISNEY STORE | disneystore.com 

@ AMAZING-BARGAINS.COM | 
amazing-bargains.com 

i FREEAGENT.COM: RESOURCES | 
freeagent.com/resource 

jm IVILLAGE: HOME BUSINESS | 
ivillage.com/topics/work/homebus 

@ INSURE.COM: HEALTH INSURANCE | 
insure.com/health 

™ SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE BUREAU, 
INC. | sbsb.com 

i@ IRS.GOV: SMALL BUSINESS AND 
SELF EMPLOYED COMMUNITY | 
www.irs.gov/smallbiz 

® NATIONAL GARDENING | garden.org 

@ BURPEE | burpee.com 

@ SMITH & HAWKEN | smithandhawken.com 


WEB LAB: GOLD STAR SITES 

pages 98-100 

@ HOMESTORE.COM | homestore.com 

tl HOMES.COM | homes.com 

ft HOMESEEKERS.COM | 
homeseekers.com 

@ REALTY TIMES | realtytimes.com 

lm MSN: HOMEADVISOR | 
homeadvisor.com 

@ YAHOO! REAL ESTATE | 
realestate.yahoo.com 

® HOMEGAIN | homegain.com 
REALHOME.COM | realhome.com 

@ IMPROVENET | improvenet.com 

jl MONSTERMOVING.COM | 
monstermoving.com 

t= NEWHOME SOURCE | 
newhomesource.com 

@ REALESTATEJOURNAL | 
realestatejournal.com 

@ PLANET REALTOR | planetrealtor.com 


Did you know a lean puppy is a healthy puppy? That's why today Purina US@S) a 


patented ingredient to create the first and only puppy foods with a nutrient proven 
to help reduce the percentage of body fat. Becauise when 
it comes to a puppy's health PURINA SCIENCE 


proves that the right nutrition can make all the difference. 


WWW-PURINA,COM 


aalP URINA Advancing bife™ 


ef \ 
pee Ve _ 


Pasa ‘ at 
DODGE CARAVAN. It’s more like “pedal to the metal, go-go-go 


Mom.” And she drives a Caravan—the only minivan to offer a power 


> a 


rear hatch. So, Mr. Catchphrase, stick your little label somewhere 
else. For more info, call 800- GE or visit e.CO 2ODGE 


