DOCUMENT RESUME 



ED 460 893 



SO 028 509 



AUTHOR 

TITLE 



INSTITUTION 

SPONS AGENCY 
PUB DATE 
NOTE 

AVAILABLE FROM 



PUB TYPE 
EDRS PRICE 
DESCRIPTORS 



IDENTIFIERS 



Richards , Margaret 

The Connecticut General Assembly: Teacher's Manual for 
Visitation Program of the Connecticut Consortium for Law and 
Citizenship Education, Inc, 

Connecticut Consortium for Law and Citizenship Education, 
Inc., Hartford. 

Connecticut Humanities Council, Middletown. 

1995-00-00 

55p.; Appendices not included in ERIC version. 

Connecticut Consortium for Law & Citizenship Education, 

Inc., Program Office, 30 Trinity Street, Hartford, CT 06106. 
Tel : 203-566-3904 . 

Guides - Classroom - Teacher (052) 

MF01/PC03 Plus Postage. 

*Citizenship Education; *Civics ; Constitutional History; 
Governmental Structure; High Schools; *Law Related 
Education; Political Science; Social Studies ; State History; 
Teaching Guides; United States History 
*Connecticut 



ABSTRACT 



This program is intended for easy incorporation into 
curricula on U.S. history, state and local government, or contemporary issues 
and events. The objective is for high school students to gain direct exposure 
to the workings of the Connecticut state legislature and the decision-making 
process. The teacher's manual contains an introduction, a guide for teachers, 
and seven sections, including: (1) "Introduction to the Connecticut General 

Assembly"; (2) "Getting Elected to be a Lawmaker"; (3) "Organizing for the 
Business of Lawmaking"; (4) "The Process of Lawmaking"; (5) "Do You Think 
There Ought to be a Law?"; (6) "Exploring Careers at the General Assembly"; 
and (7) "A Final Word: Senator Kevin Sullivan." (EH) 



er|c 






Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made 
from the original document. 



cn 

00 

o 

VO 

§ 




State (Japitoi. <* 

THE CONNECTICUT GENERAL ASSEMBLY 



o^ 

o 

00 

(N 



Teacher's Manual for Visitation Program 

of the 

Connecticut Consortium for 
Law and Citizenship Education, Inc. 



O 

c/5 



PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE AND 
. DISSEMINATE THIS MATERIAL HAS 
BEEN GRANTED BY 

Jjime-S-Schjfri-y I 



TO THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES 
INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC) 



OF EDUCATION 

Office of Educational Research and Improvement 
EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES INFORMATION 
y CENTER (ERIC) 

This document has been reproduced as 
received from the person or organization 
originating it. 

□ Minor.changes have been made to 
improve reproduction quality. 






Points of view or opinions stated in this 
document do not necessarily represent 
official OERI position or policy. 



O 

ERIC 



BEST COPY AVAILABLE 





This Program was funded by a grant from 
The Connecticut Endowment for the Humanities 



Author 

LEGISLATIVE VISITATION MANUAL 
Margaret Richards 

Program Director 
Connecticut Legislative Visitation 
, Joani K. Byer 

Editorial Assistance 
Margaret Schmidt 

Veronica Rose, Office of Legislative Research 

Secretarial Assistance 
Michele Provencal Mader 

Program Steering Committee 



Joani K. Byer, William H. Hall High School 
Dr. Christopher Collier, State Historian 
Jill Cromwell, CTT Director, League of Women Voters 
Representative Denise W. MerriU, 54th District 
David Ogle, Executive Director, Office of Legislative Management 
Margaret Richards, Curriculum Consultant 
Dr. James Schmidt, Executive Director, CCLCE, Inc. 
Senator Kevin B. Sullivan, 5th District 




HUMANITIES 



o u N c ! L 



Dear Colleague: 

The mission of the Connecticut Consortium for Law and Citizenship Education, Inc., is to provide 
resources to help Connecticut teachers and their students understand the law and the rights and 
responsibilities of a citizen. This Teacher's Manual is another in a series of those resources that 
engage students through participation. 

Conceived over ten years ago by members of its Board of Directors to be a complement to its Court 
Visitation Program, this Legislative Visitation Program involves five phases: 

• A Legislator in the Classroom activity to help students understand the issues 
which will come before the General Assembly in the next legislative session 

• A student research project on one or more issues which are of interest to the 
class 

• A classroom unit on the workings of the General Assembly, to which this 
Manual is directed 

• A visit to the General Assembly when it is in session to view the legislative 
process "for real" and to share student research with their legislator(s) 

• A mock legislature in the classroom following their field trip 

Naturally, this project is the work of many dedicated individuals who gave so generously of their 
time to write, edit, field test and assist us in putting it together. 

Margaret Richards, our curriculum consultant, spent many hours ferreting out resource to help 
teach about the legislative process in ConnecticuL We would also like to thank Veronica Ro^ of 
the Office of Legislative Research and Jill Cromwell of the League of Women Voters for their 
valuable assistance to Margaret. Several legislators participated in the project with us and helped in 
editing the Manual, especially Rep. Denise Merrill and Rep. Richard Ferrari. The teachers who 
piloted it the first year lent valuable assistance in telling us what worked well in the classroom and 
what needed revision. 

We are especially indebted to Mr. David Ogle, Executive Director of the Office of Legislative 
Management, for his help in moving our ideas from the drawing board to the fin^ product 
Without his expertise and guidance, this cooperative effort would still be in the discussion stage. 

It was only with the assistance of the Connecticut Humanities Coun^ that this project got off the 
ground. They provided us with the financial resources to prepare this Manual and field test it in 
schools around the state. 

It is hoped that with this Teacher’s Manual, students will better understand the dynamic and 
interesting process that making laws in Connecticut has always been and continues to be. The 
performance-based activities envisioned in this program are the way the Consortium believes 
students learn best about the difficult job of making good laws. 

For additional copies of this Manual or help with implementing the other activities in this project, 
please contact the Program office at 30 Trinity Street, Hartford, CT 06106 or call 566-3904. 



Sincerely, 




Joani K. Byer 
Project Manager 



O 



^tate of ConjiEcticut 




JOINT COMMITTEE ON 
LEGISLATIVE MANAGEMENT 

LEGISLATIVE OFFICE BUILDING 
HARTFORD. CONNECTICUT 06106-1591 
PHONE (203) 240-0100 



FOREWORD 



For more than three hundred and fifty years — from the Fundamental Orders of 1639 
to the current Constitution of 1965 - citizen participation in representative government has 
been the cornerstone of Connecticut’s governmental and political processes. 

It is through participation in government and politics that citizens can best acquire 
knowledge and information about the varied and complex issues that face our state and nation, 
and about the intricacies of democracy which Winston Churchill described as "the worst form 
of government except for all the others that have been tried from time to time. " 

Despite Connecticut’s long-standing tradition and commitment to the principle of 
participatory democracy, the vast majority of our state’s citizens pass through adolescence and 
into adulthood with little or no direct exposure to or contact with their representatives who 
serve them in the halls of the State Capitol. 

The Legislative Visitation Program, designed, developed and sponsored by the 
Connecticut Consortium for Law and Citizenship Education, offers our state’s high school 
students - Connecticut’s leaders of tomorrow - an opportunity for direct exposure to and 
involvement in the exciting, fascinating and sometimes frustrating activities and decision- 
making processes of their state legislature. The program is intended for easy incorporation 
into curricula on American history, state and local government, or contemporary issues and 
events. The enhanced understanding that program participants will acquire of their 
governmental system through direct contact with their elected and appointed representatives, 
and through the opportunity to closely observe laws being made, will surely enable them to 
better prepare for the transition to higher education and the responsibilities of adulthood in a 
free society. 

While this Teacher's Manual for the Legislative Visitation Program is the product of 
many hours of work by countless volunteers, four individuals are deserving of special mention 
for their yeoman efforts. Joani Byer of William T. Hall High School in West Hartford, project 



O 

ERIC 



kfMnuM on roeyOM iMpor 



5 



director for the program, has never ceased in pursuit of her dream to make the program a 
reality. Margaret Richards put in more hours than anyone could possibly imagine in preparing 
this manual. State Representative Denise Wright Merrill, who formerly served as the 
Consortium’s executive director and edited the teacher’s guide on "350 Years of Connecticut 
Government," continues to provide strong support for the program and for the Consortium in 
her elected capacity. Finally, Dr. James Schmidt, Executive Director of the Consortium for 
Law and Citizenship Education, has been the glue that has held everything together. The 
people of Connecticut owe a debt of gratitude to these four individuals for their unstinting 
commitment to and faith in our state’s future -- its young people. 



David B. Ogle 
Executive Director 

Joint Committee on Legislative Management 



LEGISLATIVE VISITATION MANUAL 
Table of Contents 

INTRODUCTION TO LEGISLATIVE VISITATION PROGRAM 
Joani K. Byer, Program Director 

David B. Ogle, Executive Director, Office of Legislative Management 

GUIDE FOR TEACHERS 
Objectives 

Suggested Unit Plan and Arranging the General Assembly Visitation 
BibUography 

Section I INTRODUCTION TO THE CONNECTICUT GENERAL ASSEMBLY 9 

Section n GETTING ELECTED TO BE A LAWMAKER 17 

Section III ORGANIZING FOR THE BUSINESS OF LAWMAKING 19 

Section IV THE PROCESS OF LAWMAKING 25 

Section V DO YOU THINK THERE OUGHT TO BE A LAW? ...43 

Section VI EXPLORING CAREERS AT THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY ...47 

Section VH A FINAL WORD. SENATOR KEVIN SULLIVAN 49 



THERE OUGHT TO BE A LAW... UNIT 
Grades 7-12 Minimum - 2 weeks 

Guide for Teachers 



This material on lawmaking in Connecticut may be incorporated into curriculum 
on U.S. history, contemporary issues or state and local government. 

Obectives: Through experiences which use participatory, cooperative and reality-based 
learning strategies, students will: 

1. imp rove critical thinking skills (see CTS Process Model following), 

2. increase their understanding of. the law m a k i n g procedures used by the 
Connecticut General Assembly; and 

3. develop practical action skills for citizenship through observing and modeling 
the lawmaking process in Connecticut. The skills will include: 

• identifying and defining a problem of significant public concern, 

• considering the advantages and disadvantages of solving a problem 
through the legislative process; 

• using a variety of community resources to gather information, opinions 
and perspectives on public issues; 

• interviewing, questioning, listening, explaining, persuading, advocating; 

• supporting and leading other people; 

• negotiating, mediating, compromising and making decisions. 




1 

8 



UNASSESSED INFORMATION 



From 

School, Horae, Coraraunity, Books 
Magazines, TV, Newspapers, Maps, Etc. 



I 



Basic Skills 



Interpret maps, charts, graphs, timelines, and other symbolic materials; locate and select information using 
appropriate reference materials; organize information into categories, and understand history-social science 
vocabulary. 



I 



Critical Thinking Skills * 

L DEFINING AND CLARIFYING THE PROBLEM 



A. Identify central issues or problems. 

B. Compare similarities and differences. 

C. Determine which inform ation is relevant. 

D. Formulate appropriate questions. 

E. Express problems clearly and concisely. 



n. JUDGING INFORMATION RELATED TO THE PROBLEM 



A. Ehstinguish among fact opinion, and reasoned judgment. 

B. Check consistency. 

C. Identify unstated ass umptions. 

D. Recognize s tereotypes and cliches. 

E. Recognize bias. emotionaLfactors. propaganda, an d semantic slanting. 



I 



F. Recognize value orientat ions and ideologies. 

m. SOLVING PROBLEMS / DRAWING CONCLUSIONS 



A. Recognize t he adequacy of data. 

B. Identify reasonable alternatives. 

C. Test conclusions or hypotheses. 

D. Predict probable cons^uences. 



Process Outcomes 

The desired outcomes of the above process are students who can: 

• Assess information around them, define problems, weigh evidence, and draw conclusions. 

• Participate effectively as citizens in a representative democracy. 

• Defend and justify intellectual and personal values, present and critique arguments, and appreciate the view- 
points of others. 



1 



♦Underlined skills are assessed in the objective portion of the statewide test 



O 

FRir 



CTS PROCESS MODEL 
2 



Q 



Suggested Unit Plan 

Introductory discussion and activity 

Introduce: Concept of need for laws through 

participatory activity such as the Island Game. 

Discussion: Can all problems be solved by a law? 

What are other ways? 

What are advantages of legal solutions? 

What are disadvantages? 



Historical perspectives: What have been sources of authority to make laws 

and compel people to obey them? 

Where does the Connecticut General Assembly get its 
authority to make laws for the state? 

Or ganize the class as a m odel General Assembly 

- Have students identify up to four problems which are of concern to them and their 
community and which are related to an issue coming before the current session of the 
General Assembly. (See Appendices A and E) 

- Divide the class into subcommittees, one for each problem. Ask each subcommittee to 
divide into representatives of the major political parties in Connecticut. 

- Have each subco mmi ttee research solutions to its problem by: 

• interviewing interest groups, lobbyists, local legislators and other resource 
people (See Appendices A and B); 

• tracking the problem and the solutions suggested through the media; 

• gathering relevant data from statistical information, position papers, statements 
about costs and funds available, etc. 

- Have members of the poUtical parties on each subcommittee caucus and develop a 
legislative proposal addressing the problem. At this point there may be majority and 
minority proposals. 

- Hold a preliminary hearing before the whole class for reports by each subcommittee on 
problems researched and solutions proposed. 




10 

3 



Prepare for the studen ts to visit the General Assemble 



- Arrangements must be made in advance through the Connecticut Consortium for 
Law & Citizenship Education, Inc. For information and reservation form, please 
call 566-3904. 

- In class familiarize students with the steps for lawmaking. (See Teaching Tools in 
MANUAL'. Chart on p.31, "Seven Steps in the Lawmaking Process" on p. 32 and 
Tracking A Bill on p. 33) 

- Teach students basic terms used by legislators. A separate glossary of terms has not 
been included in this MANUAL. Most texts on state government have one, and the 
HANDBOOK OF LEGISLATIVE TERMS AND ACRONYMNS, 1995, explains those 
used most frequently in the General Assembly. Instead, the MANUAL has terms 
students should know placed in the text to show how they apply. They are 
underlined and their use is explained briefly. We encourage you to make sure students 
understand them and how they are used in lawmaking procedures. 

Connecticut General Assembly VisitatiQjn 

Depending on schedules, students may 

- attend a committee hearing; 

- observe the House and Senate in session; ^ 

- tour the State Capitol with a League of Women Voters Guide; 

- tour technical support offices in the Legislative Office Building, such as the 
Library, the Bill Room, the Press Room, the Lobbyists' Room; 

- meet with legislators, lobbyists, or other resource people and present their 
legislative proposals, with opportunity to ask questions and discuss issues. 

Discuss with the students which of the above they wish to do, and be as specific as 
possible on your reservation form. If your local legislator(s) will meet with your 
students, or students wish to talk with a particular resource person, please note that 
on your form. 

A word of caution for your Visit at the General Assembly: 

Even when arrangements have been made in advance for your activities there, schedules 
of legislators, staff and lobbyists are very tight and subject to last minute changes. 

Please prepare your students to be courteous, patient and flexible. 



i 



o 

ERIC 



4 



11 



Follow-up a ctivities in the classroom 

- T akin g into Consideration what was learned during the visit to the General 
Assembly, each subcommittee will review the problem it has researched. 

The representatives of the political parties on a subcommittee will then: 

• discuss the legislative proposals the party representatives have 
developed and amend them by negotiating and voting; 

• draft a bill on which a majority of the subcommittee can agree. 

- The culminating activity will be hearings before the whole class acting as a 
model General Assembly . The group may be divided into a House and a 
Senate. Students should continue with the party affiliation they represented in 
their subcommittee. 

Each subco mmi ttee will present 

• a description of the problem considered; 

• the legislative solution drafted; 

• their reasons for their proposed bill. 

The class (acting as the General Assembly) may 

• ask questions for clarification (limited time); 

• recommend amendments or refinement of the language in the draft bill; 

• vote to pass, reject, or return the bill to the subcommittee; 

• explain reasons for the disposition of the bill. 




BIBLIOGRAPHY 



i 

Cohn, Henry S. and Horton, Wesley W., CONNECTICUT’S FOUR CONSTITUTIONS, 
Articles commissioned by the staff of the Baldwin Museum of Connecticut History, 
funded by a grant from the United States Constitution Bicentennial Commission of 
Connecticut, Hartford, 1988. 

League of Women Voters of Connecticut Education Fund, THE CONNECTICUT 
CITIZEN’S HANDBOOK, The Globe Pequot Press, Chester, Connecticut, c. 1987. 

McKee, Clyde D., Jr., Editor, PERSPECTIVES OF A STATE LEGISLATURE: THE 
CONNECTICUT GENERAL ASSEMBLY, Trinity CoUege, Hartford, Connecticut, 
c. 1978. 

Richards, Margaret and Marcy, William, 350 YEARS OF CONNECTICUT 
GOVERNMENT: A SEARCH FOR THE COMMON GOOD, Teacher's Guide, funded 
by grants from the United States Constitution Bicentennial Commission of Connecticut^ 
and the Connecticut Humanities Council Project, "An Orderly and Decent Government," 
Hartford, 1990. 

Swanson, Wayne R., LAWMAKING IN CONNECTICUT: THE GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY, Connecticut CoUege, New London, Connecticut, c. 1984. 



STUDY GUIDES FROM OTHER STATES 



THE LEGISLATIVE PROCESS IN MICHIGAN, the Michigan Legislative Semce 
Bureau, Legislative Research Division, Research Report - Volume 1 1, No. 1, Revised 
April, 1993. 

PEOPLE AND THE PROCESS: A LEGISLATIVE STUDY GUIDE, PubUc 
Information Office, Minnesota House of Representatives, St. Paul, Minnesota, 1991. 

National Field Test Project: THE AMERICAN YOUTH CITIZENSHIP PORTFOUO 
PROJECT, Teacher's Guide, Developed and Administered by the Center for Civic 
Education, Calabasas, California, 19W. 



Through the office of the Connecticut Consortium for Law and Citizenship Education 
you may obtain a number of additional materials for teaching about state government 
and the Connecticut General Assembly. These include: 

350 YEARS OF CONNECTICUT GOVERNMENT: A Search for the 
Common Good 

THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY (50-minute video) 



CRUSADERS AND CRIMINALS, VICTIMS AND VISIONARIES 
with Teacher's Guide 

DOCUMENTS OF CONNECTICUT GO VERNMENT: 

The Connecticut Constitution and its Antecedents 

THE CONNECTICUT COURT VISITATION MANUAL and NOTES ON 
SENTENCING 

1993 CONNECTICUT GENERAL STATUTES 



OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

At the Legislative Office Building you may obtain a number of free publications. 

Publications of the General Assembly, Office of Legislative Management, include: 

CONNECTICUT LEGISLATIVE GUIDE, 1995 

RULES AND PRECEDENTS of the GENERAL ASSEMBLY of 
CONNECTICUT, 1995 

HANDBOOK OF LEGISLATIVE TERMS AND ACRONYMNS, 1995 
COMMITTEE STAFF MANUAL 
SUMMARY OF 1995 PUBUC ACTS 
Publications of the League of Women Voters of Connecticut include: 

A SELF-GUIDED TOUR OF THE STATE CAPITOL 
CONNECTICUT, A GUIDE TO STATE GOVERNMENT 
VOTING IN CONNECTICUT 



I. THE CONNECTICUT GENERAL ASSEMBLY: OVERVIEW OF PAST AND 
PRESENT 

Although every state in the U.S.A. has a legislature whose function is lawmaking, 
the Connecticut General Assembly is one of the oldest. It began in 1637, about three 
years after three small groups of Puritans from Massachusetts started to settle in the 
valley along the Connecticut River. Each group was a church congregation, and the 
members built the settlements of Hartford, Wethersfield and Windsor around their 
church. Needing to defend the settlements and to "establish an orderly and decent 
society together," in 1637 the landowners in each town chose four men to represent 
them at meetings where common problems could be discussed and plans for meeting 
their conunon needs could be made. During one of their sessions in 1638, they drew up 
The Fundamental Orders, which was the set of rules by which each town would elect its 
representatives and work together for common purposes. The Orders are sometimes 
called "the first constitution" because it was a plan for a government drawn up by 
representatives of people in the three towns, which agreed to follow it. 

Following The Fundamental Orders, beginning in 1639, representatives of each 
town in the Colony met in April and September as the General Court for the colony. 

The members carried out all the functions of our three branches of government. They 
debated, wrote and passed laws for the colony as a legislature; they enforced the laws as 
an executive; and they decided both civil and criminal cases as a judiciary. When 
necessity demanded, they even acted as a foreign relations and nulitary depai^ent, 
negotiating with other colonies, fighting wars with Indian tribes, and using diplomatic 
channels to protest "invasions" of their land by foreign powers. 

As new towns were setded in the colony, they were incorporated by the General 
Court. Then the landowners were given permission, or certified, to elect their 
representatives and send them to the meetings in April and September. Each town was 
allowed to elect four as the original three towns did. The towns also were required by 
The Fundamental Orders to hold a special, separate election annually for a governor and 
six magistrates, all of whom were members of the General Court. Those men, however, 
had no independent powers; they functioned as leaders at the meetings and by carrying 
out any actions voted by the General Court 

Changes in those traditions and laws came slowly, but three major areas of 
transition to the modem General Assembly can be trac^: 

- organization of the legislature into two houses, development of permanent 
committees and estabUshment of a technical support system; 

- separation of powers into three co-equal branches of government; 

- apportionment of representation by population. 




15 



9 



The following are brief timelines showing the major developments in each area. 
- Organization of the General Assembly 



i 



A bicameral legislature 

1698 The General Court voted to re-name itself The General Assembly 

and to divide itself into two "chambers." The larger of the two 
consisted of representatives of the towns and was called the "lower 
chamber;" the second, or "upper chamber," consisted of the 
governor and the magistrates (now called assistants), all of whom 
still had to be elected members of the Assembly. 

1818 The new State Constitution divided the powers of government into 

three "separate and distinct" branches. The power to make laws for 
Connecticut was given to the General Assembly as the legislative 
branch, but the powers it had used to carry out the laws were 
explicitly given to the executive branch, and its functions as a 
court were given to the judicial branch. 

The General Assembly continued to have two chambers. When the 
governor and assistants became the separate executive branch, the 
upper chamber became the Senate. Its twelve members were 
elected at large, statewide, by special town meetings. The lower 
chamber was called the House of Representatives. Its members i 
were the delegates from each town, elected annually in regular " 
town meetings. 

1828, 1836 The first and second amendments to the 1818 Constitution 

divided the state into 18-24 Senatorial Districts, with one senator 
elected by the landowners in each. At first the districts were 
roughly equal in population and, applying that pimciple of 
apportionment, the Assembly redrew the district lines in 1881, 1903 
and 1941 to accommodate growth. 

However, neither the 1818 Constitution nor amendments to it 
changed representation by town in the House of Representatives. 
Each established town sent two delegates regardless of its size or 
population. Each new town sent one. This system lasted until the 
1965 Constitution. See p. 13-14 to track those changes. 

1965 The State Constitution established the number of Senators at not 

less than 30 nor more than 50, and the number of Representatives 
at not less than 125 nor more Aan 225. All are elected in districts 
apportioned by population. 



Committee structure 



Under The Fundamental Orders there was no provision for regular 
committees to do the work of the Assembly. When special matters 
needed attention, ad hoc committees did the necessary tasks, made 
their recommendations or reports to the full Assembly and 
dissolved. The Assembly would then act as a Committee of the 
Whole. 

1818 The Constitution made no mention of committees in the House 

or the Senate. As state matters became more complicated, however, 
especially during the Civil War and period of rapid industrial- 
ization which followed it, more committees were orgamzed 
to meet regularly to respond to ongoing needs. Sometimes members 
served for only one session, but o±er times a member would 
continue on a committee for as long as he was in the Assembly. 

1965 The Constitution also makes no provision for committees. As in 

1818, the House and the Senate have the responsibility for 
organizing themselves to get their work done. The committee 
structure became increasingly unwieldy and inefficient, however, 
partly because the number of delegates in the House of 
Representatives grew larger and larger as the number of towns, 
each of which sent one or two delegates, increased. At its peak 
there were 294 members in the House. In addition, because of 
problems caused by the Depression, urbanization, immigration and 
World War n, the committees became numerous and complicated to 
organize, and the work of the Assembly could not be done 
effectively. 

The present system of Joint Standing Committees, which include 
members of both the House and the Senate, has been worked out 
since the 1965 Constitution apportioned both chambers on the 
basis of population, and Amendment HI (1970) provided for one 
long and one short regular session in each two-year term. For the 
responsibilities of each committee and the members serving on each 
one, see Appendix A. For the complex rules the committees follow, 
see Rules and Precedents of the G eneral Assembly of 
Connecticut. 1995. 

Technical Staff 

1967 Be ginnin g in 1967 the General Assembly passed a series of 

statutes to set up the Offices of Legislative Management, Fiscal 
Analysis, and Legislative Research. With full-time, qualified staff 
paid by ^e Assembly, those Offices, and others added since, 
provide specialized expertise to the members of the Assembly. The 
support services have greatly increased the efficiency and 
professionalism of the Assembly. 



er|c 



Le gislative Office Building 

1989 This handsome facility was dedicated on the 350th Anniversary of 

the Fundamental Orders. It has provided the General Assembly 
with superb meeting rooms and offices and makes accessible to the 
legislators and the general public all the conveniences of modem 
technology for lawmaking. 

- Separation into 3 co-equal branches of government 



1818 The 1818 Constitution began this change. Both it and the 1965 

Constitution clearly divided the powers of state government in the 
same way the U.S. Constitution divides powers at the federal level. 
The functions of each branch are explicitly listed in both 
constitutions under Article HI - Legislative, Article IV - Executive, 
Article V - Judicial. After the 1818 Constitution was ratified, 
however, it took a long time for each branch to establish procedures 
for carrying out its own functions and for checking the actions of 
the other two branches. The General Assembly continued to be the 
most powerful branch well into the 20th century. 

1897 The first challenge to powers being exercised by the Assembly came 

from the judicial branch in th e Norwalk Street Railway’s Appeal. 

Up until 1897 the Assembly continued to decide some cases of 
pardons (an executive power according to the 1818 Constitution) 
and some divorce and bankruptcy cases (a judicial function). Those! 
practices, for so long the prerogatives of the Assembly, were 
explicitly denounced in Judge William Hammersley's decision when 
he reminded the Assembly that the 1818 Constitution explicitly 
limited its powers to those belonging to a legislative branch. 



Relations between the General Assembly and the executive branch have 
reflected changing trends of both politics and power. Some steps by which the present 
balance has been developed are: 



1818 Governors were elected for a one-year term. The Constitution gave 

governors the power to veto a bill, but the Assembly could make it 
into law over their veto by a simple majority. 

1886 The Constitution was amended to provide a two-year term for the 

governor. 



1924 Governors were given the power to veto line items in 

appropriations bills. 

1930's & Because of problems brought on by the Depression and World 
1940's War n, the governors developed larger staffs, more administrative 
agencies, and more active direct access to federal dollars and 
programs than the legislative branch. Therefore, the executive 
branch responded more effectively to people's needs than the 
General Assembly did. 

12 18 



1947 



A constitutional amendment provided for a four-year term for the 
office of governor beginning with the 1950 election. 



1965 The Constitution required a 2/3 majority in both chambers to 

overide a governor's veto. 



1966 & Statutes establishing technical offices and support staff for the 

1969 Assembly helped to equalize power with the executive branch 
which had continued to extended its network of departments, 
administrative agencies and staff. 

1970 Constitutional amendments provided for the present schedule of the 
annual sessions of the Assembly. 



1972 The Assembly further strengthened its capacity for overseeing the 

executive branch by a statute which establish^ the Program 
Review and Investigations Committee. 



- Apportionment of representation by population 

In both The Fundamental Orders and the 1818 Constitution the lower house was 
apportioned by town. As noted, at first each town sent four representatives. By the 
latter part of the 18th century, however, there were nearly 100 towns, making the 
meetings of the House of Representatives nearly unmanageable. Therefore, the 
Assembly, in a series of laws which became part of the 1818 Constitution, reduced the 
number of delegates from each established town to two, and to one from each new 
town. With some modifications, that system of representation in the House by town, 
without regard to the number of residents, lasted until 1965. 

It was increasingly unfair as the forces of urbanization, industrialization and 
immigration changed Connecticut towns. For example, in 1850 New Haven with a 
population of 22,582 sent two delegates; Hartland with a population of 848 also sent 
two. By 1900 New Haven had a population of 108,027 but still sent two delegates; 
Union with a population of 428 also sent two delegates. 

Representation by population in the Senate was started in 1828 by an 
amendment to the 1818 Constitution, which divided the state into senatorial districts, 
each electing one senator. Even with redistricting in 1881, 1903 and 1941, however, 
there was a wide variation in the number of voters included in each district. There was 
no system for makin g the count approximately equal, nor for a regular redistricting as 
population figures changed. 

In 1964 the U. S. Supreme Court in the case of Wesberrv v. Sanders set the one 
man-one vote standard for all state legislatures; and the Federal District Court in the case 
of Butterworth v. Dempsev ordered the Connecticut General Assembly to apply that 
standard to the election of state representatives and senators. To comply with that 
decision the Assembly ordered a Constitutional Convention which wrote the 1965 




Constitution. It copied the 1818 Constitution in most respects, but it replaced the 
system of representation by town with apportionment on the basis of population in both 
the Senate and the House by setting up districts in which the number of people met the \ 
federal standard for equal representation. 

Now there are 36 senators, each one elected in a district with approximately 
84,000 constituents (or people), and 151 representatives, each elected in a district with 
approximately 20,CKX). The population count is taken by the U.S. Census every ten 
years (as required by the U.S. Constitution). At that time the district lines must be 
adjusted if necessary to meet the equal vote standard. Connecticut's district lines now 
reflect the 1990 figures. See district maps in Appendix B. 

In summary, in the years from the General Court of The Fundamental Orders to 
the present General Assembly, Connecticut has developed an effective legislative 
branch. It has powers and organization that make it co-equal with the executive and 
the judicial branches and because of the way it is apportioned, each voter has a fair and 
equal voice in the laws it passes for the health, safety and welfare of all people in the 
state. It is a bicameral legislature that represents a broad range of needs and interests. 

Its members are part-time and they usually work at other jobs; but by the Constitution 
they must live in the district they represent. Each one is elected for two years; and they 
meet at the State Capitol every year on a biennial (two year) cycle. In odd-numbered 
years the Assembly meets for the "long session" starting in January and ending in June. 
In even-numbered years the "short session" begins in February and ends in May. In 
addition, as part of the balance of power with die executive branch, the Genersd 
Assembly may be called into a special session by the governor or by a majority vote of 
the legislators. At that session, however, it may meet only for a specified purpose and | 
then must adjourn. 



The Modern General Assembly has three miyor responsibilities. 

1. Lawmaking 

The legislators consider thousands of proposals for laws at every session and 
make decisions on them that affect everyone in the state. For example, they decide how 
many days students must be in school, who is certified to teach, when a person may 
drive a car, or at what age a young person may work, as well as the conations at the 
workplace. They are responsible for laws to protect the health, safety and welfare of all 
the state's residents. 

Lawmakers are also responsible for paying the state's bills. They must vote to 
levy taxes , which currendy include the income tax, sales tax and taxes on businesses. 
They also raise money by imposing fees such as those for liquor licenses, use of state 
recreational facilities, and driver licenses. Then they must allocate the money collected 
to pay for public institutions (schools, jails and courts), programs (services to the elderly, 
income maintenance, and Medicaid), and the costs of government (salaries of state 
officials, expenses of the legislative, executive and judicial branches, and maintenance of 
state buildings). 



The special bills which allocate money raised through taxes are called 
a ppropriations . They authorize various agencies and units of government to spend tax 
monies for a specific purpose. Legislators must carefully consider such government 
expenses before proposing any programs, services or building projects. They are 
"costed out" by budget analysts in both the executive and legislative branches and are 
fully debated by the Appropriations and the Finance, Revenue and Bonding 
Committees, which will make recommendations to the General Assembly. In 1994 the 
Appropriations Committee set up a total budget of $9,501 .2 million which was approved 
by the General Assembly (see Appendix D for sources of revenue and appropriations by 
government function). 

To accomplish their lawmaking responsibilities, legislators must not only represent 
the interests and views of their own constituents; they also listen to the interests and 
views of members in the General Assembly who come from other districts with 
constituents that may have very different needs and views. Connecticut is a mosaic of 
urban, suburban and rural areas, with agricultural, industrial, educational, commercial and 
financial interests, diverse populations, and widely different economic levels. 

It is one matter to speak for one's own district. It is another to be ready to discuss, 
negotiate and work out compromises with many other legislators and to pass laws that 
"have something for everyone" yet protect the common good. Success at lawmaking 
requires a wide range of essential sl^s and a commitment to make state government 
vital and responsive through democratic methods. 

2. Oversight 

In carrying out its oversight responsibilities the legislators contribute to the 
checks and balances system among the three branches of government. The General 
Assembly is not only a "watchdog" over how public money is spent; it also oversees the 
actions of the executive branch to ensure that laws are being implemented (carri^ out) 
as intended, and it watches the procedures and decisions of the state courts (the judicial 
branch) to ensure that laws are properly enforced. 

For their part as lawmakers in the system, members work hard at their responsibilities to: 

- represent the people of the state as they fashion laws they believe are in 
the best interest of all. In that role they are the guardians of "the common 
good;" 

- listen to complaints about unmet needs and problems; and 

- review reports, court cases, newspapers and letters from constituents to see how 
laws are, or are not working. 

As they exercise those responsibilities, legislators work out ideas for changing or 
amp.nHing laws, as well as for introducing new ones to meet new problems. 



3. Giving information and assistance to constituents 

Finally, it is a major responsibility of each legislator to provide information and ^ 
assistance to the people in their district. The following are examples: 

- If a person has a complaint about something a state official, agency or 
department has done, or not done, the information may be taken to the 
representative or senator in the district. Legislators will help constituents with 
government "red tape" by telling them which department, program, bureau or 
official can handle a problem and how to deal with procedures. 

- Legislators spend a great deal of time talking with people who have ideas for 
better laws or better ways for the state government to do something. In the 
process legislators can explain why a law says what it does, or why they voted 
on a particular matter in the General Assembly as they did, or what the 
constituent must do to have a law amended. Explaining what reasons the 
General Assembly had for favoring, or not favoring, something a constituent 
cared about is an important part of educating people in a district about state 
government and decisions made in Hartford. Legislators are the most direct link 
residents have to state government. Members of the General Assembly relish an 
opportunity to discuss lawmaking and government with students who will be 
voters someday. And spending time talking with adult constituents is 
absolutely necessary if a legislator wishes them, as voters, to re-elect him or her. 



n. GETTING ELECTED TO BE A LAWMAKER 



The 1965 Constitution sets out the conditions for serving as a legislator in Article 
Third, as amended by Article XV in 1980. 

For both the House and Senate a candidate must be at least eighteen years old 
and be an elector (or registered voter) residing in the district from which he/she 
hopes to be elected. 

Legislators who win election to the House or Senate may not hold any other 
state or federal office during their term(s) in the General Assembly. 

Elections to the General Assembly are held in even-numbered years, so all 
legislators serve two-year terms. There are no limits on the number of terms a 
legislator may serve. 

The two major political parties are the organizations through which a person who 
wishes to be elected to the General Assembly most often will work. Though a few 
decide to run for a seat as an Independent (without any party label), most candidates are 
active members of either the Democrat or the Republican Party. As election time comes 
close, usually in July of even-numbered years, each party will hold a convention, or 
caucus, for its members in the district. In those meetings the party members will discuss 
possible candidates for each elective position. Sometimes they will agree on one person 
to be the party's nominee , in which case that person will be listed on the final ballot 
prepared for election day in November. If several people in a party decide to run for a 
position, their party will hold a closed primary (a mini-election by members of the same 
party). 



In a closed primary the only people who may vote are those who are enrolled 
members of the political parties. Enrolling means a person has officially listed his name 
as a party member with the local registrar of voters prior to an election. (See Article 
Sixth of the Connecticut Constitution on qualitications of electors, and Amendments DC 
and X.) When a party member goes to the polls on primary day, he/she must declare the 
party of which he or she is a member. Each person is then given a ballot with only the 
names of people running for office from that party. Once the members in a party give a 
majority of votes to one of the candidates, that person's name will appear on the 
November ballot as the nominee of the party. 

Independents have their names entered on the November ballot by a challeng e 
primary . To win a place on the ballot through that method, a candidate must have 
received at least 20% of the votes in a party nominating convention. If he is a candidate 
for a Senate seat, he must also file a petition signed by 350 registered voters of that 
party; a candidate for the House of Representatives must file a petition with 100 
signatures. 



Each party nominee for legislator and any Independent candidates will campaign 
very hard beWe election day in November to convince the voters in a district to choose ^ 
h im or her as the person best able to represent them in the House or Senate, and all the ^ 
candidates will talk about what they can accomplish for the district if elected. 
Campaigning gives the voters an important opportunity to tell the candidates what they 
need and want. It also gives the candidates the opportunity to suggest what kind of 
lawmakers they will be if they represent the district in the General Assembly. 



m. ORGANIZING FOR THE BUSINESS OF LAWMAKING 

As soon as legislators are elected, they are caught up in the job of organizing the 
General Assembly. This is done along party lines, with the two major parties, which 
represent the great majority of members in the House and Senate, controlling the 
process. 

Leadership 

The first step for the legislators in each party is to join other pa^ members in a 
caucus, or series of meetings, in which they work out who will be their leaders in the two 
houses. The party which elected the most members to the House or to the Senate will 
hold the majority leadership positions. The party which elected fewer members will hold 
minority leadership positions. 

In the Senate the Lieutenant Governor is the President. The duties of that office 

are to: 

- preside over the Senate, 

- recognize members wishing to speak, 

- put ^ questions to vote, 

- decide questions of order, and 

- refer bills to committees. 

In the event of a tie vote, the Lieutenant Governor may cast a vote to break the 
tie. 

The President Pro Temnore is elected by the Senate from the members of the 
majority party. He/she will preside over the Senate in the absence of the President. 
He/she is also officially responsible for appointing the members of the Senate to their 
committee assignments, though many of these decisions are worked out in the party 
caucus. 

The Majority Leader and the Minority Leader of the Senate are elected by the 
respective party caucuses. They serve as their party's spokesperson in floor debates. 

In the House the Speaker (or presiding officer) is elected by the members, and is 
therefore a member of the party which elected the most representatives. The Sj^aker’s 
duties are the same as those of the President Pro Ten^x>re in the Senate. In addition, the 
Speaker may appoint Deputy Speakers to assume those duties in his/her absence. 

The House Majority Leader and the House Mino rity Leader are elected by their 
respective party caucuses and serve as the party spokesperson during the floor debates. 

Each party caucus will elect Deputy and Assistant Leaders to help with the 
party's work in both the House and the Senate. The caucuses wiU also elect one or more 
members to act as party Whip , an old term from our English Parliamentary traditions, 
meaning a party official designated to assure attendance of members at voting time. It is 
still the Whip's job to make sure members are present when their vote is needed, as well 
as to check on dieir attendance at other crucial times. 




25 



See Appendix B for the names of majority and minority leaders in the 1995 session. 

Other officers and their duties are listed in CONNECTICUT LEGISLATIVE GUIDE, 1995. 
p.l36-p.l37. ( 

Rules 

At the start of each session the two houses will adopt a set of rules for 
conducting their business. Most of these have been set bv precedent (adopted by 
members of General Assemblies in the past and continued in practice). Those rules and 
any new ones are voted on by the Senators for the Senate and by the Representatives 
for the House. Joint rules are the responsibility of a Joint Rules Committee. They deal 
with work the two houses do together, including procedures used by the Joint Standing 
Committees. When debate and voting take place on the floor in either house, MASON'S 
MANUAL OF LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURES (1989 edition) provides the basic rules. 
Once the conunittees begin meeting, members of each committee will vote on the rules 
for doing the work of that committee. For the rules of the 1995 Session See RULES 
AND PRECEDENTS of the GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF CONNECTICUT, 1995. 

Committees 

In addition to selecting the leadership for the Senate and the House, each party 
caucus will discuss which members may be appointed to serve on conunittees of die 
General Assembly. Usually each legislator will serve on three or four committees during 
the two-year term, and they may be re-appointed or assigned to other committees if they 
are re-elected. 

The Connecticut legislature is one of the few in the U.S. that is organized with a 
system of Joint House and Senate Committees. That means each committee has membersi 
from both the House and the Senate. Because they are appointed by the leadership in 
each house, the numbers are in proportion to the majority and minority parties. 

The Joint Committees operate year-round, meeting as needed to study proposals 
for legislation. The members read background reports, technical doc ume nts and the 
legislative history relating to a proposal. Then, especially while the General Assembly is 
in session, committees hold hearings at which experts, agency officios and any 
interested person may give testimony or mak e comment on specific bills. All committee 
hearings are open to the public. Most are scheduled during the weekday, but when an 
issue is very controversial, a committee sometimes schedules evening or Saturday 
hearings to accommodate people who cannot attend during working hours. A verba tim 
record (word-by-word transcript) is kept of all the testimony given before a committee 
so the full Assembly will know exactly what was said by the spokespersons at the 
hearings. 

Following public hearings, the committees are responsible for deciding what will 
be a good (or effective) law, which bills can pass the Assembly, what might have to be 
changed in a proposed bill, and which proposals must be rejected. Those decisions are 
then conveyed to the full Assembly in die form of committee recommendations for floor 
debate and action. 



At present there are seventeen Joint Standi ng Committees divided into two groups. 



See Appendix B for responsibilities of each Committee and the members serving on them 
during the 1995 session. 

Since they are Joint House - Senate Committees, two chairpersons are appointed 
for each, one by the Senate President Pro Temj^ and one by the House Speaker. 
Generally the two chairpersons alternate presiding over meetings and hearings. If 
members of the two parties disagree on final reports or reconunendations, members in the 
majority and in the minority wiU submit separate reports to the full Assembly. 

As issues have become more complicated, a committee may delegate the tasks of 
hearing particular proposals and recommending action to a small group of its members 
sitting as a subcommittee. Again, the members who sit on those represent both the 
House and the Senate, as well as the political parties in proportion to their numbers. 
Those subcommittees are temporary and give their reports and reconunendations to the 
full Standing Committee which appointed them. 

The deadlines for favorable reports on biUs from the Standing Committees are set 
up in the official schedule. They vary for each committee but in general are during 
Mar ch and April of each session. At that point the biUs and resolutions which are 
reported favorably start on the steps for action by the full Assembly. The other biUs that 
came before a committee but were either rejected or not acted upon wiU die. BiUs are 
not carried forward by a c ommi ttee from one session to the next Those that were 
rejected by a co mmi ttee or allowed to die must be re-introduced and start at the 
beginning of the process at each new session. 

In addition to the Standing Committees, there are several other classes of 
committees. These are listed below with a brief description. For more information about 
them see Appendix B. 

Select Committees. These are joint committees which deal with areas of special concern 
to the General Assembly. The members are appointed by the Speaker of the House and 
the President Pro Terqx>re of the Senate. 

At present there are two: 

• Select Committee on Housing 

• Select Committee on ChUdren 



Group A: 



Group B: 



Appropriations 

Education 

Environment 

Finance, Revenue and Bonding 
Government Administration and Elections . 
Judiciary 

Planning and Development 
Transportation 



Banks 

Energy and Technology 
General Law 

Labor and Public Employees 
Insurance and Real Estate 
Human Services 
Public Health 
Public Safety 
Commerce 



Both are more permanent than subcommittees because they have been established by 
vote of the Assembly but, like subcommittees, they report bills they favor to the g 

appropriate Joint Standing Committee. 1 

Statutory Committees. These are permanent joint committees established by statute 
and charged with specific responsibilities. 

• Joint Committee on Legislative Management. 

This is the " admini strative arm" of the General Assembly. It is responsible 
for coordinating and supervising all legislative, operational and st^f 
activities, the expenditure of all funds appropriated for the legislative 
branch, and the security, use and maintenance of the Capitol, the 
Legislative Office Building, and the grounds. 

• Joint Committee on Executive and Legislative Nominations. 

This is the nominating arm of the Assembly. All executive and legislative 
nominations that require action of either or both houses are presented by 
this co mmi ttee, with the exception of judicial nominations and 
nominations for the office of Commissioners of Workers' Compensation. 

• Joint Committee on Legislative Program Review and Investigations. 

This is the "watchdog arm" of the General Assembly. Established in 1972, 
this Committee has greatly strengthened the capacity of the legislative 
branch to review how the programs, agencies and departments of the 
executive branch are implementing the laws. The comprehensive reports 
from this co mmi ttee are available to the public and recommended as a 4 
resource for teachers. 

• Special Committees are appointed to perform a particular task and then are 

disbanded. S imilar to ad-hoc committees, there are Joint Specid 
Committees, Senate Special Committees, House Special Committees, 
Committees of Conference (appointed to reconcile differences between a 
House and a Senate version of a bill) and special Interim Committees, 
which are appointed to examine a particular issue in the interim between 
sessions. 

Technical Offices 

Under the Joint Committee for Legislative Management there are four offices that 
provide tec hni cal services legislators need to do their work thoroughly and efficiently. 
All have full-time staff and all are non-partisan. 



• The Office of Legislative Research 

- assigns one or more researchers to assist the Standing Committees 
(except those dealing with fiscal matters) by providing technical 
information and helping to develop legislation; 



i 



o 

ERIC 



22 



28 



- responds to requests for information from individual legislators and 
conunittees, preparing written reports, oral presentations, and the OLR 

REPORTER, a newsletter on a range of legislative issues; 

- prepares a bill analysis in simplified English for each bill favorably 
reported by co mmi ttee before it is sent to the full House or Senate for 
action. The analysis may include a summary of what the bill would do or 
require, important legislative history, and a count of the votes in each 
committee which considered the bill; 

- publishes the public acts of a session after it adjourns, codifies ±em, 
revises the Connecticut General Statutes and publishes them biennially. 

• The Legislative Library 

- collects and organizes a vast amount of informational materials for the use 
of legislators and legislative staff; 

- provides telephone, walk-in and computer reference services to both 
Connecticut and out-of-state legal and legislative data bases. 

• The Office of Fiscal Analysis 

- carries out financial research and analysis for the Appropriations 
Committee and the Finance, Revenue and Bonding Committee; 

- reviews budget requests, analyzing the cost and benefit implications of 
proposed legislation; 

- recommends sources for funding, including federal aid. 

• The Legislative Commissioners' Office 

- provides bill-drafting services; 

-checks all bills reported favorably out of committees for consistency of 
language, technicd accuracy, relation to exisiting statutes, and 
constitutionality. 



Publications 

A critical part of the process for organizing the Assembly is to make sure all the 
members receive daily communications about bills, committee hearings, meetings, and all 
other events going on during the session. Each legislator receives the following 
publications: 

• The House or Senate journal is placed on the desk of each member each session 
day. It summarizes the preceding session. 

• The legislative bulletin is also issued every day. This announces public hearings, 
committee meetings and other items and events of interest 



^^9 



• The calendar for each house gives the list of bills reported out of committee and 
ready for action on the floor. 

• Files are copies of bills before the Assembly. They will change as a bill goes 
through the legislative process. They will show the chamber in which the bill 
originated, the number given at the First Reading, committee(s) to which it is 
referred, and the number of votes in the conunittee(s) for and against 
recommending it for action. In its final version the file will include "Approved 
by the Legislative Commissioner" and a summary of the bill in plain English 
prepared by the Office of Legislative Research. The Files are the crucid 
publication by which legislators can keep track of the status of each bill. 

• A Committee Action Report is published at regular intervals during the session 
by each Standing Committee. 

• A legislative record index , including a subject index, is published at the end of 
each session. It lists the title, sponsor and number of each bill, the committee to 
which it was assigned, and any action taken on it by the Assembly. 

In addition to those publications, copies of which are available to the public, 
copies of bills before the House or the Senate may be obtained in the Bill Room. 

In the Bill Information Room the current status of any bill can be called up on 
computers. And every day infonnation about meetings, hearings and other events can 
be seen on the television monitors in the halls of the L.O.B. 

Although not under legislative management, but another important source of 
research services and infonnation, is the State Library . Across Capitol Avenue from the 
Legislative Office Building, it offers assistance to the public as well as all three branches 
of government Especially helpful is its "quick bill infonnation service" available by 
phone and computer while the General Assembly is in session. 



30 




24 



rv. THE PROCESS OF LAWMAKING 



[Note to teachers: Offered at the beginning of this Section are three teaching 
tools which may help students understand what happens at each step of the lawmaking 
process: a chart, a list of Seven Steps in Lawmaking, and "How to Track a Bill in the 
General Assembly." Use them as appropriate. Students need to know certain terms they 
will hear legislators use to describe steps in the process. Some of those are defined on a 
list beginning this section; others are on the teaching tools, or are underlined and 
explained in the text.] 

Students often ask why lawmaking takes so much time. One reason is that each 
step is mandated (legally required) either by the 1965 Constitution or the Rules and 
Precedents of the General Assembly. There are no shortcuts. Every bill proposed 
demands careful investigation by many, people, thoughtful debate about changes 
offered by many individuals and groups with different perspectives, research into 
technical aspects of a bill and its fiscal consequences, se^ng priorities, and finally 
developing compromises that will be acceptable to a majority in both houses. 

Charts and lists look "dry" to a class, but the p^ocess they describe is dynamic and 
driven by interactions between all kinds of people with all kinds of motives. Teachers 
are encouraged to develop appreciation for that side of lawmakmg by facilitating as 
much as possible a variety of contacts between students and people involved with 
lawmaking at every step. 

Terms 

Bills are proposals (or ideas) for legislative action which are in some stage of the 
process. 

Acts are bills that have been passed by both houses and sent to the Governor for 
his/her action. 

T .aws are bills that have passed both houses of the Assembly and have been 
either signed by the Governor or not vetoed within the time pre^ribed by the 
Constitution. The laws are now "on the books," and will be codified , or put into 
appropriate sections of the Connecticut General Statutes. 

Bipartisan means there is representation of the two major parties in equal 
numbers. 

Nonpartisan means a group or program that does not reflect the views of any 
political party. If there is nonpartisan support for a bill, that means the people who favor 
it do so apart from party considerations and want to appeal to wide public support. 

Scheduling refers to the time and sequence for introducing legislation in either 
house for a reading or final action. According to the joint rules, the members of each 
committee decide when this will be done for bills they recommend for action but in 
practice the leaders of both houses often influence the timing through the con^ttee 
chairpersons. Most bills are placed on the calendar for both houses. That indicates 
when action on the bill on the floor of the House and the Senate may be expected. 




25 

3:1 



Placing a bill on the consent calendar means there is general agreement about it . 
so it will be passed quickly, without debate. ' 

A few bills may also be passed quickly by the use o f emergency certification . 

This will happen when both the President Pro Tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of 
the House certify in writing that an emergency makes quick action necessary. In those 
very few cases, new subject matter may be proposed, deadlines in the rules will be set 
aside, and the legislature can take immediate action. 

Amendment means a change, addition or deletion to a proposed bill. Refer to the 
chart and the "Seven Stages" to see where amendments may be made in the process. 
Amendments are voted on one at a time before a vote is taken on the entire bill. After 
all proposed amendments have been either approved or turned down, the bill "as 
amended" will be accepted or rejected. Sometimes so many amendments are made that a 
committee will re-write the bill. It is then called a Substitute Bill , keeping the same 
number as the original, but adding "Substitute" to the title (for example. Substitute HB 
5001). The original sponsor(s) may keep their name(s) on the bill, or, if they do not 
approve of the changes, other sponsors will be listed. 

If a bill "as amended" or the substitute bill is passed in one house, it is then sent to 
the other house. If the second house amends it in other ways, it must be returned to the 
first house. Because houses must adopt an identical version of a bill for it to pass, if the 
first house does not agree with the amendments of the second house, a Committee on 
Conference is appointed by the officers of each house. Usually three members are 
appointed from each house, including legislators who have voted on both sides of the ( 
issue. This is a n ad hoc committee , meaning a temporary one which is assigned one 
particular task. The members will try to work out a compromise version of the amended 
bill for both houses to consider. There may be further amendments and several 
Conference Committee meetings before a final version acceptable to both houses is 
worked out At this Conference Committee stage especially, very considerable skills in 
discussing, negotiating and compromising on the part of both the leadership and the 
members in each house are essential. If this process of amending, re-wording and voting 
on different versions of a bill still does not result in agreement by both houses, that bill 
dies. 




i 




26 



Teaching Tool 



I 



» 



I 




1. CHART 

The chart which follows and the description of the Seven Stages in Lawmaking are brief 
summaries of a complicated process. At the end of this Section is How To Track A Bill 
which students may use if they wish to follow one particular bill as it moves through the 



process. 




27 



amcmpoauuANi 





2. HOW A BILL BECOMES LAW - Seven Stages in the Lawmaking Process 

STAGE ONE: Drafting and Introduction 
Proposed Bill Drafted 

Introduction in the House of Representatives* 

First Reading in the House 
First Reading in the Senate 

Bill title, number, and sponsors printed in House and Senate Journals 

STAGE TWO: Committee Consideration 
Bill Referred to one or more of the Joint Standing Committees 
Initial Committee Recommendation 

1) "Box Bill" take no action - bill dies 

2) Incorporate proposed bills into Committee Bill 

3) Write new bill (Raised Bill) 

Public Hearings for Committee and Raised Bills 
Committee Action on Bill 

1) Report favorably 

2) Report unfavorably 

3) No Report 

Second Reading: Favorably reported bills sent to House 

STAGE THREE: Second Committee Action 
Bills requiring funding referred to "money committees (Appropriations, Finance- Revenue- 
Bonding) 

Money committee (s) approve or reject bill 

STAGE FOUR: House Action 
Third Reading: Debate and Amendment on floor of House 
House votes on amended bill 

STAGE FIVE: Senate Action 

House-approved bill sent to Senate for second reading and placement on calendar 
Third Reading: Debate and Amendment on Floor of Senate 
Senate votes on amended bill 

STAGE SIX: Conference 

Unresolved diffo'ences between House bill and Senate bill considered by Conference 
Committee 

Compromised Bill sent back to House and Senate 
If one or both houses reject compromise, bill fails 
If both houses accept compromise bill, it is sent to Govonor 

STAGE SEVEN: Action by the Governor 

Bill becomes law if Governor signs the bill, or he takes no action within five days during 
legislative session or fifteen days after adjournment of the Assembly 
If Governor vetoes bill, it is returned to House in which it originated. Bill passes if each 
house repasses by two-thirds vote of elected membership. Failing two-thir^ vote, veto is 
sustained. 

*For the purposes of this summary, the bill is introduced first in the House of 
Rqiresentatives. Bills may also begin in the Senate. 

Publication and Effective Date of Acts. 

Public acts, those affecting the state statutes, automatically take effect on October 1 of the year in 
which they were passed unless stated otherwise in the act The Legislative Commissioners' Office is 
responsible for printing all public and special acts and preparing them for incorporation into the 
body of state statutes. 

from LAW-MAKING IN CONNECTICUT: THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY, Wayne R. 
Swanson, Connecticut College, New London, CT, c. 1984, p. 80-81. 




28 



35 



3. HOW TO TRACK A BILL IN CONNECTICUT 



I. PROBLEM 

a) What specific problem(s) does the bill address? 

b) How can the problem be broken down? (For example, the problem of air 
pollution could break down into different sources of the pollution, different 
consequences of pollution, variety of factors that influence its presence such 
as industry, traffic, etc. ) 

c) What possible solutions can be considered, both non-political ones and 
legislative action? 

d) Which groups and individuals express concern about problem? 

n. MOVING THE BILL THROUGH THE LEGISLATURE 

a) Proposing the bill 

1. Who draf^ it? How was the issue or problem stated and what solution did 
the original biU propose? 

2. Who proposed it in the General Assembly and to which chamber? 

3. Who supported it? What arguments in favor appeared in public speeches 

and/or the press? 

4. Who opposed it? What arguments against appeared in public speeches 
and/or press? 

(First Reading - formal title, number and sponsors printed in journals of the 
House and the Senate) 

b) Committee/Public Hearing on the bill 

Once the biU is referred to one of the standing committees, 

1. Which of the standing committees handled the biU? What did the committee 
or committees decide to do with it? 

•Who was in favor of that course of action? Why? 

•Who was against it? Why? 

Bill may die here if a majority of committee members vote against it. 

2. If the committee held public hearings on the biU, 

•Who testified in favor? What reasons were presented? 

•Who spoke in opposition? What reasons were presented? 

3. Was the original biU changed as a result of the hearings? In what ways? 

For what reasons? 

4. If the biU required an appropriation, what did the Appropriations Committe 
decide to do? For what reasons? 

If there was strong opposition to the bill for financial reasons, it might die here. 

5. Legislative staff functions - What were their recommendations to the 
committee? 

•Did the Legislative Commissioners make any changes? Why? 

•What did the Office of Fiscal Analysis say about the biU? 

•What did the Office of Legislative Research say about the bill? 

6. What fin^ decision about the biU was made by the committee? 

•Was it reco mme nded for action by the full Assembly? Or did the bill die? 
•Reasons? 

•Any recommendations for scheduling? 

c) Action by House and Senate 

1. At the Second Reading of the biU what calendar number was assigned to it? 
When did it appear on the calendar for daily sessions? (It must be listed twice.) 



o 

ERIC 



29 

36 



2 . 



3. 



4. 



•At this Reading who spoke in favor of the bill? Reasons? 

•Who spoke in opposition? Reasons? j 

•Were amendments proposed? By whom? What changes would ^ 

these make? Who opposed the amendments? How did the members vote 
on each amendment proposed? 

At the Third Reading of the bill with amendments was there further debate 
on the floor of the House? the Senate? 

•Who spoke in favor? Reasons? 

•Who spoke against? Reasons? 

•Did these debates produce different versions of the bill in the two 
chambers? 

How did the House of Representatives vote on the bill? How did the Senate 
vote? 

•If one chamber rejected the bill, it died. Which chamber? 

•If both chambers voted in favor on the same bill, it was sent to the 
Governor for his action. 

If the House and the Senate passed different versions of the bill, 

•What were the significant differences? 

•What reasons were given for the differences? 

•Who was appointed to the Special Joint Conference Committee? 

•Did that Conference Committee reconcile the differences? If they 
reached agreement on a revised version of the bill, it was returned 
to both chambers for debate and vote. What happened to the bill 
in each chamber? 



-If an identical version of the bill passed both chambers, it was forwarded ^ 
to the governor. ^ 



-If either chamber failed to pass the revised version of the bill, it died. 



in. ACTION BY THE GOVERNOR 

a) Did the governor sign the original bill or the revised version when it reached 
his desk? If so, it is the law. 

Did he/she make any comments at the time? 

Which office in the executive/administrative branch will carry it out? 

b) Did the governor allow the bill to become law without his/her signature? 

Why? 

c) Did the governor veto the bill? What reasons were given in the veto 

message? 

If the bill is vetoed, it is then returned to the chamber in which it was proposed. 
Did that chamber vote to override the veto by the required 2/3 
majority? 

•If it did, the bill is then sent to the other chamber. 

•If the second chamber passes the bill by a 2/3 majority also, it is the 
law. 

•If there was not a favorable 2/3 majority vote in either chamber, 
the bill dies, and those who wanted it will have to begin the 
process over again at a later session. i 



o 

ERIC 



30 



37 



KEY PLAYERS IN LAWMAKING 
The Governor Goes First 



The major event that formally opens the process of lawmaking is the annual 
governor's address to the General Assembly. This is an impressive occasion and gives 
the governor his opportunity to let the legislators know what his agenda and pnonties 
are. Called the State of the. State message, it sets the tone and major directions for action 
by the legislature during that year's session. 

A budget message follows in February, during the first session after an election. 

At that time the governor presents a full-sctde two-year budget since Connecticut uses a 
biennial system for the budget process, as weU as for election of legislators, non- 
election years the governor will present an^accounting. on the budget to the General 
Assembly, but will not suggest major changes. 

The budget the governor presents is a centralized one. It lays out for the 
legislators what are anticipated expenditures by all executive branch departments and 
agencies, and the cost of the governor's legislative program, as weU as the possible 
sources of revenue. The work of gathering and coordinating the mass of fiscal 
information and doing the necessary cost/benefit analyses is the responsibility of the 
Secretary of the Office of Policy and Management (0PM). Once the budget is prepared 
and the governor has presented his reasons for his tax policy and expenditure proposals, 
the budget belongs to the legislators. The General Assembly may accept it as a whole, m 
part, or not at all. 

Consideration of the proposed budget is first referred to the Appropriations 
Committee and to the Finance, Revenue and Bonding Committee. Then it follows the 
steps for all bills, and once it is adopted by both houses, it is conside^ the legislature s 
budget. At that point the governor may approve the entire budget bill or may 
disapprove of any single item while accepting the remainder of the bill (the Unc ItetP 
vetoi . See Appendix D for charts showing 1^1995 budget. 

The governor's success at getting legislative proposals and the budget passed by 
the General Assembly depends on a number of factors. One is ptfftis^ship. A governor 
is the leader of his political party in the state. If that party has a majority in both houses, 
the chances are good that most of his/her proposals will become laws and the budget 
will not be substantially changed. If, however, the opposing party controls either or 
both houses, the governor's ideas and plans may be rejected or greatly changed by the 
legislators. 

The governor's knowledge of the legislative process, his skills at ^rsuading, 
explaining, negotiating and compromising, and even personal relationships with 
individual legislators, are other factors that will help to convince lawmakers to pass what 
he has proposed. During the sessions much of the governor's time and his staffs as well, 
is spent working with the leaders of the House, the Senate and the committees. 

Members of the executive branch also use every possible means to explain the 
governor's program to the general public, for they must show the legislators there is 
strong, vocal support for the proposals from a wide cross-section of individuals, groups, 
organizations and businesses throughout the state. 



Lawmakers. Lobbyists, the Me dia and the Public 



These people also exert powerful influences on which bills become laws and * 
what they will provide for everyone in the state. The key people are the legislators 
because they make the final decisions; but the lobbyists, the media and public are crucial 
as informants, advocates, and persuaders. Interactions between individuals and groups 
are constant and constantly changing during the days and weeks of a session. The 
dynamics are influenced by many factors. Personalities, priorities, and partisanship are 
some; ambition, experience, skills for working through the legislative process, and 
alliances based on either common needs or personal friendships are o^ers in a 
kaleidoscope of relationships. The best charts and models cannot do justice to this side 
of the General Assembly; nor can the best laid plans always determine final outcomes. 
Compromises, quid pro quo arrangements ("you vote for my proposal; I'll vote for 
yours"), and informal negotiations are among the factors that keep the end results from 
being predictable. But the democratic process is people working out their own laws, 
and since 1639 Connecticut people have done just that in their General Assembly. 

Legislators 



Lawmakers are asked to consider hundreds of bills in each session. For example, 
in 1994 over 5,(X)0 were submitted to the General Assembly, and all had to be acted 
upon in some way before the session ended. In addition to the governor's legislative 
program, biUs come from many individuals and groups who say "there ought to be a 
law..." 

Bills can be suggested by; 

individual legislators or committee memb^s 
constituents 

local, state, or federal administrative agencies 
interest groups and citizen activists 
news report 
court decisions 

opinions of the Attorney General 
blue ribbon panels or special task forces 

legislation and government activities in other states or the federal government 

BiUs may be ^oposed in either house, or filed , any time before the opening of a 
session and for a limited time thereafter. In the "short session" (even years) individual 
legislators may file only fiscal bills (bills having to do with public funds). The 
committees, however, may propose any bills on any topic. 

Proposed bills need not be in formal legal language when they are introduced. 
They may be just ideas about how to solve a problem. When a bill is given its first 
reading in either house, it is assigned a title, a number, and a legislator who is named its 
sponsor . The sponsor then guides the bill through the steps outlined in the teaching 
tools. Some biUs have only one sponsor; others have many. Sponsorship is a way by 
which other legislators may judge how important a biU is and, therefore, what priority to 
give it One powerful legislator's name on a biU may be enough to convince others to 
look at it seriously; when a number of legislators put their names on a biU, that shows 
there probably is wide pubUc support for it. 




32 



39 



Once a bill is filed and has its first reading, leaders in the house receiving it refer it 
to the appropriate committee or committees. The broad areas of committee jurisdiction 
are set in the Rules (see Appendix B); but party politics and priorities cp also influence 
which committee receives a bill and where it is scheduled on the committee's a.genda. . At 
that point a bill is the committee's responsibility. Its members may decide to reject it, to 
amend it, to substitute another bill for it, or to forward it with a favorable 
recommendation to the house in which it was originally received. 

During the early committee phase (from the start of the session until the deadlines 
for committee reports in March or April), legislators work very hard on their assigned 
committees. Meetings, hearings, and informal discussions consume at least 2/3 of a 
lawmaker's hours. Added to that is the time spent studying the files, other publications 
and relevant technical information, talking wi± people interested in particular bills, the 
press and lobbyists, and attending. floor sessions.- . . 

After bills are referred by the committees to the House or Senate, the time for 
major action on the floor of each house begins (second and third readings). Then the 
lawmakers focus on listening to reasons to vote for a bill, or reject it, or to ideas about 
how to amend it. Most legislators select just a few bills on which they wiU actively work 
and speak, either for or against. No one can be an advocate on every issue. They 
choose those that are important in their district, or are a priority for their party. But 
because the public also expects them to be well informed and "vote intelligently" they 
will spend long days, and sometimes nights, listening, discussing, negotiating, studying 
and, finally, deciding "yea" or "nay" on most major issues. A voting record that they, or 
their party, can explain to the public and relate to needs and priorities of their 
constituents is what they were elected to accomplish. To do that, legislators must be 
people of extraordinary dedication, energy, and skills. 

Lobbyists 

Students have the most questions about lobbyists and what they do. A lobbyist 
is a person who is designated (or hired) by an organized group, business or special 
interest to represent its views to the legislators and to try to influence the way they vote 
on a particular bill. In that way lobbyists, too, are key players in the legislative process. 
They are usually paid by the particular group they represent, but they can also be 
unpaid volunteers who have a strong interest in or knowledge about a special area of 
legislation, such as the environment or women's issues. 

Lobbyists in Connecticut are carefully regulated by laws and rules of the General 
Assembly. There is a Code of Ethics that they must follow, and a State Ethics 
Co mmis sion which enforces it. All lobbyists must register with the Commission before 
January 15th of each year, telling what organization(s) they represent, what they are 
being paid, and in what areas of legislative action they wiU lobby. Each lobbyist must 
wear an identifying badge while in the General Assembly, and may not be on the floor of 
the House or the Senate while either is in session, though they may sit in the gallery with 
the public to watch the debates and count the votes. In addition, they are required to 
file monthly reports with the Commission while the Assembly is in session, including a 
statement of each expenditure of $50 or more that was given by the lobbyist for the 
enefit of a public official, his/her staff, or immediate family. Lists of the registered 
lobbyists are published and open to the public. Those tell which company or group uses 



o 

ERIC 



40 



33 



the lobbyist and what is his/her area of legislative or administrative activity. Some 
lobbyists make a full-time career out of working for several large businesses, but most | 
represent only one organization, or groups in one field. f 

In reality lobbyists provide a valuable service to legislators who, faced with a 
mas s of bills, haven’t time or staff for adequately researching the details in proposed 
legislation, or in a particular problem area. They are the most helpful when they explain 
complicated problems or technical issues related to their group or business. Information 
they give may change the vote of legislators, or it may change provisions in a bill being 
proposed. Therefore, they are important participants in the lawmaking process. 

Lobbyists also have an important function when they keep their interest group 
well informed about what the legislators are doing. In general, busy businesspeople and 
interested citizens do not have time or expertise to study complex issues and to follow 
the day-to day procedures by which a bill is changed into a law. Lobbyists do that for 
them, even at times helping to stir up public opinion when they believe a vote should go 
one way or another. Letters and phone calls to legislators generated by lobbyists and 
the organizations that use them may exert a powerful influence on votes in committees 
or on the floor of the House or Senate. 



Regulations of the State Elections Enforcement Commission prohibit all 
solicitation and donations of political campaign contributions from lobbyists and the 
Political Action Committees of their corporations or organizations during the legislative 
session. No candidates for the legislature may receive political contributions from 
lobbyists during the session except for candidates involved in a special election held ^ 
during the session to fill a vacancy in a district for the House or Senate. 

The Media 

The press and media are crucial sources of public knowledge about the work of 
the General Assembly, and one of their major functions is generating informed public 
debate about issues and proposed legislative solutions. Fifty to sixty full-time reporters 
cover each session. They work out of the press room in the Capitol, which is maintained 
for them by the Office of Legislative Management. Through them daily accounts about 
what is happening in the General Assembly fan out across the state by way of television, 
radio, newspapers and magazines. 

Legislators also actively use the press and media to inform the public and to 
generate debate on issues before the House and Senate. Besides malong frequent public 
statements, they keep in constant touch with their constituents by every possible means, 
from press releases to "Letters to the Editor," to radio talk shows and televised meetings. 
Especially during a session, exchange of information and opinions is an ongoing three- 
way process in which the press, legislators and local constituents share their concerns 
and views. Local people tend to t^ about local problems, but the media and the 
legislators wiU tell them about what is going on at the state level in the Assembly 
committees and hearings, and about votes on the floor. Therefore, both legislators and 
the media tend to put local issues into a statewide context. Through their broader 
perspective they help to make citizens more effective as participants in the work of the 



er|c 



34 



41 



General Assembly. That is why listening, reading, discussing alternatives, and 
communicating are such critical skills for everyone - legislators, media people and 
citizens involved in the lawmaking process. 

The Public 

The role of the public as a key player in lawmaking is more readily understood by 
students than what lobbyists or even the media do; and it is the area in which students 
themselves can have a direct influence. One of the goals of this program is to encourage 
them to do that, to show them the points in the process where they can make a 
difference, and to develop skills they need to participate effectively. Section V wWch 
follows gives some "how to" suggestions. But teachers can help them by emphasizing 
first that there are different levels of public involvement in legislative procedures and, 
second, that effective participation requires some sp^ific skills that can be learned 
through class activities and experience with the resides of lawmaking. 

The public sets the process on track by voting. When the voters choose who will 
represent them in the General Assembly, they direcdy influence its majority/n^ority 
party balance and the program priorides, as well as Ae kind of people who will carry 
through the steps of lawmaking procedures. Voting is a privilege, not a requirement or 
even a right, in the American polidcal system. Those who choose to exercise that 
privilege need to have the basic skills to learn about candidates, to listen to them, and to 
decide between them. Through the legislators they choose, the voters are the people 
who influence how each General Assembly does its work. 

When the General Assembly begins the lawmaking process, the public also has 
choices. Some people stay uninvolved, passive, indifferent But there are also many 
opportunides to be acdvely involved. Among those are talking with legislators, reading 
and listening to reports from committees and floor debates, giving testimony at hearings, 
and writing government officials in both the legisladve and execudve branches. 
Demonstrating in front of the Capitol is another kind of participadon, and students will 
remember such dramadc examples as the crowds that gathered to protest the state 
income tax, or the motorcycle riders who protested the helmet law. The sight of a big 
crowd ma y be electric, but the lasting effects of such one-shot acdons are hard to assess. 
Demonstradons certainly call attendon to an issue about which certain segments of the 
public care a great deal, but more thoughtful expressions of public opinion are often 
more influendal. A demonstradon that is followed up by letters, ^rson-t(^pereon 
contacts with legislators, or testimony at public hearings is more likely to influence how 
a pardcular law is written in the end. 

Again, students should understand that it takes a range of skiUs to do that 
effecdvely. Among those are organizing informadon and people to support a posidon, 
considering altemadve soludons, and deciding what an individual or a group can 
reasonably jusdfy. Then a person has to be able to artculate the posidon clearly, 
whether in a speech, a letter, or in informal conversadon. Becoming mfluendal citizen 
advocates takes dme, work and "know how." But those are the acdve spokespersons 
for public opinion who make the most difference in what lawmakers decide to do with 
bills as they move through the legisladve process. 



4235 

ERIC 



Staff of Technical Offices 



In contrast to the partisan, very public roles in lawmaking played by the | 

governor, legislators, lobbyists, the media and the public, the role of staff in the 
Legislature's Technical Offices is a nonpartisan one played out mostly behind the scenes. 
Yet those men and women are also key players in lawmaking because they {wovide 
crucial technical services through each step of the process. Because most legislators 
have neither the time nor the expertise for the highly detailed work of formd law- 
writing, staff work can often m^e the difference between a good law and a bad one. 

In general a good law is clear in its intent, is a reasonable response to real needs, is 
coherent and well organized, and is enforceable. Three of the Technical Offices 
contribute substantially to achieving those results. (Refer to the list on p. 22 & 23 of 
this manual.) From the beginning of the process by which a bill becomes a law, staff in 
the Offices of Legislative Commissioner, Legislative Research and Fiscal Analysis work 
with individual legislators and with the committees, assisting with a variety of 
specialized services from bill drafting, to research reports, to fiscal information. 

The public is usually not aware of all the necessary tasks staff members do, but 
when a bill has been favorably reported out of committee and is prepared for action in 
the House and Senate, the work of staff members is clear. At that point the bill is printed 
up for the files with the following information: 



• It has been approved by the Office of Legislative Commissioner. That means 
attorneys have checked the bill for consistency and correctness of legal 
language, accuracy of technical data, its relation to existing statutes, and its m 
constitutionality. 

• The series of File Numbers printed at the top will show what changes the bill has 
undergone as it went through the chamber where it originated, the 
committees to which it was assigned and where to trace earlier versions in the 
files. Further, for purposes of debate and amendment, each line of the biU is 
numbered. That formation is also the work of the biU-drafdng services of the 
Office of Legislative Commissioner. 

• At the back of each bill is a Hscal Impact Statement from the Office of Fiscal 
Analysis. It begins by reminding legislators that it has been prepared "solely for 
purposes of information, summarization and explanation." It does not "represent 
the intent of the General Assembly or either House thereof for any purpose." 
Impartiality is one of the reasons the Technical Offices are so usefd to 
legislators. 

• The Fiscal Impact Statement also shows which levels of government wiU be 
affected if the bill is passed, giving figures for the State and for the Municipal 
impact, and stating which State Agency(s) will be involved. 

• The Statement closes with an Explanation of Estimates. It is written in clear, 
concise English and gives the busy legislator the key figures and statistics. 




3 « 43 



• Also on the back of each bill is a bill analysis prepared by the staff of the Office 
of Legislative Research. Written in plain English, the analysis gives a summary 
of the key provisions of a bill, its effective date, some legislative history on the 
issue, and the number of yea/nay votes in each committee which acted on the 
bill. 



DECIDING WinCH BILLS WILL BECOME LAWS FOR CONNECTICUT 

The last stage in the lawmaking process draws together all of the key players in a 
climatic series of decisions. On one level these decisions are made in accordance with a 
set of parliamentary actions controlled by strict, legal rules, precedents and procedures. 
On another level the final decisions are a constant balancing of considerations by each 
legislator: considerations for "the common good," for political priorities, for the need to 
compromise. And mixed in is an infinite variety of individual motives: ambition, desire 
to please constituents, need to do a favor, personal likes and dislikes, among others. 

The final process begins when committees report favorably on a bill and technical 
staffs have finished their work, and the bill file has teen printed and circulated. It is then 
placed on the calendar for action (Third Reading) in the chamber in which it originated. 
That is itself a crucial decision and is usually made by the leadership. Though committee 
recommendations for scheduling may be considered, more important factors for working 
out the final calendar are the priority given a bill by the majority party, whether and how 
many amendments might be made from the floor or whether there are enough votes to 
pass it as is, and what the other chamber is likely to do with the bill. If a bill is placed on 
the calendar for early action, it is more likely to be fully debated before being voted on. 
Bills that are put toward the end of the calendar are at risk of being bundled together for 
a mshed vote at the end of the session, or being allowed to die even though they had 
public hearings and favorable reports from committees. 

The next step is a motion made by the Speaker or the President Pro Tempore for a 
bill to come before the House or the Senate. After that formality, debate may begin and 
so may the amendment process. Proposals to amend a bill must be filed with the clerk of 
the House or Senate before the day on which the bill is to be acted ujwn, and they must 
be germane (directly related to the substance and specific provisions in the bill). Each 
amendment must be debated and voted on as it is proposed. It cannot be amended, nor 
can a substitute amendment be offered, until there has teen a vote on the one being 
debated. At this stage several things may happen. 

- If no amendments are offered, and the members have voted to close debate, the 
bill is put to a yea/nay vote. If a majority says "nay," the biU is dead. If a majority says 
"yea," the biU is sent to the other chamter for action there. 

- If amendments are proposed, debated and accepted, they become part of the biU 
"as amended." (At that point an amended bill may be:) 

• sent to the Office of Legislative Commissioner for review. If it is 
approved, it is reprinted as amended and returned to the floor for the 
yea/nay vote. 



o 

ERIC 



37 44 



• or referred back to the committee(s) because it is so changed, a new one 
has to be written. ^ 

- If debate on amendments, or on a bill itself, is taking up too much time, the 
members may vote to limit debate. 

- If so many amendments are proposed, or debate on a bill becomes too 
controversial, the members may vote to postpone it for consideration at another 
specified time, or to place it at the end of the calendar. 

If a bill is passed by a majority in one chamber, it moves on to the next step - the 
debate/amendment/voting process in the second chamber. Here, again, several things 
may happen. 

- If an identical bill is passed in the second chamber, it is sent to the governor for 
his/her decision. 

- If a different version is passed in the second chamber, a Conference Committee 
is set up to try to resolve the differences and work out a bill which both 
chambers can pass. A bill can become law only if both chambers pass identical 
versions. 

- If the Conference Committee succeeds and the compromise bill is passed by 
both chambers, it is sent to the governor. 

- If the Conference Commit^ cannot negotiate an acceptable compromise, the m 
Committee 's negative report with the bill is returned to each chamber. There th^ 
members vote to accept or reject the report of the Conference Committee. They 
cannot amend it. 

• At that point members in one chamber may vote to reject the negative 
vote of the Conference Committee, and decide to refer it back to the 
Joint Standing Committee which originally recommended it for further 
woric. 

• If both chambers accept the negative report of the Conference 
Committee that no compromise could be reached, the bill will die. 

At each of these steps public debate in the House and the Senate, like the 
amendment process, is controlled by strict rules. There are a number of fo rmali ties which 
every member must follow when speaking on the floor, and the required rituals often 
seem stilted and overly rigid to an observer in the balcony. But it must be remembered 
that these are ways of keeping intensely held opinions within orderly limits and giving a 
fair hearing to all sides. As in a trial where the goal is for truth to emerge through an 
advocacy system, the goal of debate is for a majority of legislators to become convinced 
that "the common good" lies with a particular course of legislative action. 

It is by listening to legislators in both reasoned debate and informal discussions 
outside the chambers, and by hearing the cheers for the "yeas" or the "nays" when they M 
win an important vote, that an observer realizes how deeply committed members of the * 




38 

45 



General Assembly are to their role as decision-makers. Political decision-making, 
whatever formalities are required, is a tremendously competitive, exciting, absorbing 
process, with real winners and losers. But those who lose out on one vote know the 
process is still open for another try, and all the key players are in place to provide 
attention, communication and support. 



THE GOVERNOR HAS ONE MORE CHANCE 

Once the "yeas" have it in both chambers, and an identical biU is sent up to the 
governor, he/she has a second turn at influencing the legislative process. Like the 
legislators, he and his staff follow biUs through the process with great care, and they pay 
a great deal of attention especially to what the media and the public have to say. 
Furthermore, the executive branch has the same expert technical services which the 
General Assembly has, plus its own departments and administrative agencies. And the 
governor is the state’s political leader as well as his party's chief. Still he must stay within 
the options allowed to the executive branch by the state Constitution and the Rules of 
the General Assembly. 

When the governor receives a biU, these are the options. He may: 

• sign the biU, thus officially making it a law; 

• refuse to sign a biU, but must do that within 5 days after it has been received, or 
within 15 days after the General Assembly has adjourned. In that case the 
governor has decided to let the bill become law but without the approval of the 
Chief Executive. 

• veto the bill and return it to the General Assembly, giving the reasons why he 
believes the Assembly must reconsider its action. 



THEN THE ASSEMBLY HAS THE FINAL DECISION 

After it receives a veto message from the governor, the Assembly has these 
options. 

• A 2/3 majority in both chambers may re-pass the biU over the governor’s veto. 
That mak es it law in spite of his/her objections. 

• Legislators in either or both chambers may decide they agr^ with the 
governor's objections, so it wiU be extremely difficult to build the required 2/3 
majority to re-pass the biU. Without that majority in both chambers it wiU die. 

• If the governor vetoes a biU after the Assembly has adjourned, the Assembly still 
has the power to act. The 15-day rule means a pocket veto is impossible in 
Connecticut. (An executive fails to act on a biU if he receives it after the 
legislature has adjourned - "puts it in his pocket".) 



4(^9 



A Connecticut governor must send his veto message and the bill to the Secretary of 
State within 15 days. The Secret^ will then reconvene the Assembly for the sole . 
purpose of re-considering it. Action on it is taken first by the chamber in which the bill ( 
originated. If it is repassed by a 2/3 majority, it is send to the second chamber. Again the 
2/3 rule applies. If the bill does not receive 2/3 yea votes in the first chamber, it dies and 
the second chamber takes no action. Both chambers must vote by 2/3 to override a 
veto. This is commonly called a trailer session , and may not last more than 3 days. 



SPECIAL SESSIONS 

The State Constitution mandates a specific date for adjourning the regular 
sessions of the General Assembly. Article HI, Sec. 2 as amended in 1970, says the 
legislature must end its regular business: 

- in the odd-numbered years (long session) not later than the first Wednesday 
after the first Monday in June; and 

- in the even-numbered years (short session) not later than the first Wednesday 
after the first Monday in May. 

To make sure that the General Assembly can handle important unfinished 
problems or emergencies, however, both the constitution and statutes provide for calling 
special sessions under certain conditions. 

- Article El, Sec. 2 gives the General Assembly the power to call a special ( 

session " when the members judge it to be necessary. " 

In this case the members must be given ten days' notice before the vote to call a special 
session; and a majority of the total membership of each chamber is required to approve 
the call, not just a majority of members present and voting (Connecticut General Statutes 
Sections 2-6). The specific matters to be acted upon must be made public before the 
voting. Then the Assembly must adjourn when that agenda is completed. No new items 
of business may be introduced. 

- Article HI, Section 2 also says "the person administering the Office of Governor 
may, on special emergencies , convene the General Assembly." Furthermore, a 
governor, faced with an emergency, may call the Assembly together at a place in 
the state other than Hartford. 

In this case both the Speaker of the House and the President Pro Tempore of the Senate 
must certify in writing that there is truly an emergency before the call for a special 
emergency session may go forward. 

-The Connecticut General Statutes (Sec. 2-6) give the governor the power to call 
a special session even when there is no emergency. Again, the item(s) to be 
acted upon must be stated specifically by the governor, and members of both 
chambers must vote to hold such a session. If they do not wish to hold the 
session, they may simply gather and vote to adjourn. , 




40 



47 



In this case there may be significant political considerations for the governor and 
the legislators. For instance, Governor Rowland supported calling a special session to 
consider issues related to gambling in Connecticut 1995. This is a good example of the 
reasons in favor of calling a specif session: the time and attention of members in both 
chambers would be focused entirely on a major, complicated problem which has many 
ramifications for the whole state. 

Recently opposition to such a special session came from the Mohegan Nation, the 
Mashantucket Pequot Nation and from some segments of the general public. A number 
of members of the General Assembly also spoke out in protest. They agreed the 
governor had the statutory authority to call for a special session not related to an 
emergency. But they believed all regular business of the Assembly ought to be dealt 
with in the fimft allotted for it in the constitution and issues related to gambling should 
wait to be brought up at the next regular session. 




48 

41 



V. DO YOU THINK THERE OUGHT TO BE A LAW...? 

Here is what to do: 

ORGANIZE. A group is more effective at working for or against legislation than 
an individual. It is more visible, has greater resources, and shows there is more public 
interest in an issue or problem. Call together a group of friends, co-workers, or 
neighbors and talk with them about a specific issue of concern to all of you. 

Such a group should think carefully about whether legislation (with the politics 
involved) will solve the problem, or whether other alternatives might work better. 
Remember, laws will not solve everything, and sometimes have unintended 
consequences that create other problems. 

After you as a group decide what you want to do, agree on a plan with a goal 
and a schedule to accomplish it. Decide on specific tasks to be done, such as 
researching available materials, finding data that supports your position, attending 
meetings of other groups concerned with the problem, and talking with people outside 
your group who may be affected by what you are proposing. Some may support your 
plan, but some might oppose it and you should know their reasons. 

CONTACT YOUR REPRESENTATIVE AND SENATOR if you beUeve there 
should be a law. Here are some steps to take. 

Get in touch with the le gislators in vour district This may be done individually or as 
a group. If you know someone who can introduce you, person-to-person contact may 
be helpful. When you call, write or talk in person with a legislator, it is not necessary to 
identify your political party or whom you voted for in the last election, but you should 
always identify yourself by name and address and your group. 

Be courteous, statmg your views clearly and listening respectfully to the legislator's 
responses. Avoid any hint of high-pressure tactics with the lawmaker, and never accuse 
him/ her of having already made up his mind, having a hidden agenda, being biased, or 
not leveling with you. Sarcasm and threatening to withhold support are not effective 
strategies in this context. 

Arrange a meeting to tell your legislator about the problem that concerns your group 
and what you are proposing. At the meeting don't waste time with a long, emotional 
presentation. Have your facts well organiz^ and persuasive. Wherever possible, have 
pictures, charts or graphs that clearly demonstrate your points. If you have done your 
research thoroughly, you can be a helpful source of information on a complex problem. 
If there is already a law or a bill dealing with the problem but you consider it to be 
wrong or ineffective, have your data ready to explain what you believe will be a better 
approach, but show the legislator you know what has been tried, and your specific 
suggestions for changing it have valid reasons as well as strong public support. And be 





43 



prepared to listen thoughtfully and courteously to what the legislator has to say. You 
may find he/she is already supporting your position or has information about a bill you M 
didn't know. In any case, show you appreciate his/her time and attention, and are ready^ 
to report any suggestions he/she offers to your group. Don’t present arguments against 
the legislator’s course of action at this time, and don’t ask for a commitment that he/she 
will vote the way you want. 

Write a letter to vour legislator. This is the best way to follow up a meeting and 
influence him/her. Here are some tips: 

• Be sure the letter is addressed correctly including the legislator's full name, all the 
words are correctly spelled, and your name and address are on the letter. 

• If the letter comes from a group or organization, give its full name and address, and if 
several people from the organization add their signatures, note any official titles 
(such as President or Secretary) they may have in the group. 

• Use your own words instead of sending a form letter or petition. Those are often 
the products of pressure campaigns and are not nearly as influential as a thoughtful 
letter which reflects sincere concerns and facts that have been carefully researched. 

• Begin your letter by expressing appreciation for the time your legislator took to 
meet with you. Then summarize briefly the matter discussed and what your group 
proposed. 

• If you can, identify by number the bill being considered with which you are ^ 

concerned, giving its title and the subject matter. Then go on to suggestions for 
changes your group would like to see. You may suggest speciflc wording for 
amendments, ±ough these need not be in legal language. 

• Give reasons for your position, keeping them as clear and speciflc as you can - such 
as the effect a bill will have on your fa^y, your job, your co mmuni ty. 

• Be brief. Legislators do not have time to read pages of data and arguments. Many 
issues are complex, but an outline of speciflc problems, solutions and reasons can be 
clear and persuasive. 

• Finally, tell your legislator that you and your group will be tracking the bill and will 
appreciate Ms/her support 



50 





44 



ATTEND PUBLIC HEARINGS AT THE COMMnTEE(S) TO WHICH YOUR BELL 
HAS BEEN REFERRED. 

• Attending these will provide a great deal of information about a proposed bill 
as well as different views on the problem about which you are concerned. 

Most hearings are held in the Legislative Office Building (LOB) Md are open 
to the public. The date, time and place for a hearing must be published five 
calendar days beforehand in the Legislative Bulletin and, if the topic is of wide 
public interest, many newspapers will give that information. When it schedules 
public hearings, a committee usually arranges for bills that deal with the same 
topic to be presented at the same time so everyone concerned with that area of 
legislation can be present if they wish. 

• On the day of the hearing, the place and time can be checked on the Television 
monitors in the LOB halls. It will help to know the number of the bill you are 
interested in before the hearing, That information is available both through 
your legislator and through the Bill Information Service at the LOB and the 
State Library. When you get to the hearing room, you may pick up a copy of 
the bill(s) being considered in the hearing from a rack outside the room. Study 
that material carefully so you will understand testimony being given and the 
comments of the committee members. 

• Committees as well as individual legislators encourage public participation in 
hearings. Like letters and calls they receive from interested people, what the 
public says about a problem and the proposed bills that deal with it are very 
important for helping members decide what to do with legislative alternatives. 
But, unlike letters, a hearing gives those who attend what is often very 
knowledgeable testimony, a sense of who is in favor and who is opposed to the 
solutions being consider^, and the reasons for a variety of positions. 



Oiving testimony at a hearing is the most direct and effective way of getting your 
views "on the public record." All testimony is recorded so committee members and all 
other legislators will know what you have said. Here are some suggestions: 



• Plan what you want to say so your points, facts and reasons are clear and 
concise. Committee members have a great deal to accomplish in a hearing, and 
may become inattentive if you "go on and on." Usually it helps to write out 
what you plan to say. If you do that, stick to your script, and give copies of it 
to committee members (and ten extras for staff and your own representative and 
senator). 



• Find the committee room about one hour before the hearing is scheduled and 
si gn up to give testimony. There will be a sheet just inside the door, there you 
can write your name and the bill on which you will be speaking. At that time 
review the copy of the bill (on the rack outside the room) to see whether there 
have been any ame ndments which you would want to address in your 
testimony. 



4§1 




• At many hearings the first hour is reserved for legislators, agency 
representatives and special experts invited by the committee to give their | 
testimony. Listen carefully and make notes while they are speaking. They " 
may give information about the bill or the problem you did not know. 

• When you are called, sit at the speaker's desk and speak slowly and clearly into 
the microphone. Formal address is appropriate to start: "Mr." or "Madam 
Chairperson" and "Members of the Committee". Introduce yourself, giving 
your full name very distinctly so it will be clear on the tape. Give your address, 
including your town, and the number and title of the bill on which you will 
speak. 

• Also tell the committee whether you support the bill, oppose it, or are offering 
suggestions to amend it. Then explain the reasons for your position with 
supporting facts. 

• Be brief. Time limits for verbal testimony vary, but most committees allow only 
3 minutes for a public statement. In any case, do not go over the time set by 
the chairperson at the start of the hearing. During your verbal testimony you 
may demonstrate your points with charts and graphs, but only if the 
chairperson gives permission. And don't get "bogged down" in explaining 
details. The "visuds" should be few in number, and should emphasize 

your main points. More may be included with your written testimony. 

• If earlier speakers have already covered some of your points, you may say you 
agree with their remarks, or support their position. Then use your time to ( 
emphasize points or facts not covered by others. 

• If you strongly disagree with previous speakers, you may make that clear, but 
do so with respect and courtesy. Then go on to give facts and data that 
support your views. 

• When you have finished your testimony, you may close with an offer to answer 
any questions the committee members may have. If there are questions, answer 
them clearly and concisely, giving additional facts to support what you say, but 
keep your responses short and to the point of the question asked. 

• When your presentation is finished, thank them for the time and attention. You 
may tell them and your legislator that you and your group will be tracking the 
bill and will appreciate support for it. 

• Though your spoken presentation must be brief, committees welcome written 
testimony which may be longer and include more information. Each committee 
decides the number of copies needed for its members so you should ask for that 
information ahead of time. Then add ten extra copies for the committee staff as 
well as your district representative and senator. Have the copies ready to hand 
to the chairperson or the clerk when you leave the speaker's desk. 



i 



o 

ERIC 



46 



52 



VI. EXPLORING CAREERS AT THE CONNECTICUT GENERAL ASSEMBLY 



Studying the General Assembly in class may encourage students to explore 
careers in the legislative branch, and the visit will give them a chance to talk with both 
those who have political jobs and those who hold one of the staff jobs. For background 
information, students may talk with their local legislator about what kind of duties fill 
their time, during the session, as well as what has to be done the rest of the year. They 
can also study the Committee Staff Manual. That is available free from ±e Office of the 
Joint Committee on Legislative Management. It explains the staff positions at the 
Assembly in detail, with special focus on how staff people serve the committees, the 
legislators and the Assembly. 

There are several possibilities for a students to explore a political career; 

• With the permission of a legislator, a student may "shadow" him/her 
for a day or two during the session. 

• A student may volunteer to help one of the parties or a candidate 
at election time. 

• Student volunteers may help in a legislator's district office while the session is 
going on. Work on mailin g lists is always appreciated, and so is gathering 
information or polling public opinion about an issue on which the legislator is 
taking action. 

Any of those activities will give students a realistic notion about the time, effort 
and kind of people involved with partisan political work. 

Full-Time Staff .lobs at the General Assembly 

Nonpartisan staff positions at the Capitol and the LOB are under the over-all 
direction of the Office of Legislative Management. Most require skills (secretarial, 
adminis trative, research, or technical), and a high degree of efficiency. These are full- 
time, year-round jobs, and especially during the sessions staff people work vety long 
hours. Some are assigned to work in the offices of the leadership; others provide 
technical and support services, dealing with numerous requests for assistance from 
legislators, committees and the public. 

Staff in the following offices are particularly busy during sessions; 

Legislative Commissioners Office 
Office of Rscal Analysis 
Office of Legislative Research 
Legislative Data Processing Office 
Legislative Library 

Legislative Publications Office and the Bill Room 




Between sessions the staff do many "follow-up" tasks to complete the work of 
the General Assembly. They prepare reports and publications that go to legislators, to i 
appropriate government agencies, officials and departments, and to the public. They ‘ 
continue to work with the leadership of the House and the Senate and with members of 
the standing committees, and assist the public with everything from touring the building 
to doing research in the Legislative Library. 

Interim Jobs 

In addition to the fuU-time positions, there are some part-time or interim jobs. 
These are filled by staff people employed to work only during a session, or to prepare 
detailed studies requested by a committee or the leadership. The positions usually 
require a special appropriation to pay the salary because they are outside the budgeted 
resources of the Office of Legislative Management. For that reason, there are few of 
them, and they usually go to specialists with the technical expertise needed to complete 
a particular assignment. 

Internships 

For students who wish to explore either political or staff careers in more depth, 
there are some internships available. A few are open to high school students, and the 
local representative or senator will help with information about those opportunities. 
Most internships in the General Assembly are given to college students who are 
majoring in Government or Political Science. They are appointed and supervised by the 
Joint Committee on Staff Internships. ^ 

Interns may be assigned to a committee or to one of the technical offices, where 
they work under the supervision of the regular staff. An intern may also be assigned to 
work for a legislator in one of the leadership positions. 

Teachers may make arrangements before the Legislative Visit for students to meet 
with staff members or with interns who hold particular positions in which they are 
interested. But remember, these are very busy people and students should be prepared 
with specific questions to ask. For example, ±ey might want to know: 

• what training is needed; 

• what are the most interesting aspects of the work - and the least; 

• what are opportunities for career advancement; 

• what is the pay scale. 

When completing the form for the CCLCE Visit, note only those staff positions 
that students are seriously interested in exploring. Have them ready with their 
questions, and on time for any planned meetings. Let the students know, however, that 
a meeting with a staff or an intern might have to be cancelled at the last minute if there 
are unexpected demands on staff time or a change in schedule. 



SENATOR KEVIN B. SULLIVAN 

(203: 232-i99- 




^tatr of (Cmuicrtirut 

SENATE 

STATE CAPITOL 

HARTFORD. CONNECTICUT 06106-1591 
FAX (203) 240-0208 



DEPUTY MINORITY LEADER 

203- 2-O-ScOJ 



For Thomas Jefferson, education was the foundation of civic 
responsibility. Therefore, democracy is most of risk when the 
governed or those who govern lock the knowledge and experience 
necessary tor the informed and active debate that sustains citizenship 
and our sense of shared community. 

Informed and active citizenship means understanding how politics 
and government work. That's why participation in the Legislative 
Visitation Program is so important -- helping teachers and students 
become better informed about how "We the people" express and 
determine public policy through the legislative process. That very 
human process of conflict, competition, compromise and consensus is 
the heart of American democracy. 

Through readings, classroom discussion and on site visitation with our 
legislators at the State Capitol, the Legislative Visitation Program otters 
teachers and students an invaluable understanding and appreciation 
of the values of representative democracy and democratic 
citizenship. 



Best wishes. 




U.S. Department of Education 

Office of Educational Research and Improvement (OERI) 
National Library of Education (NLE) 

Educational Resources Information Center (ERIC) 

REPRODUCTION RELEASE 

(Specific Document) 





L DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION: 



juig. The Connecticut General Assembly. Teacher's Manual for Visitation 

Program of the Connecticut Consortium for Law and Citizenship Education, 
Inc 


Author(s): Richards, Margaret 




Corporate Source: 


Publication Date: 


Program Office 




II. REPRODUCTION RELEASE: 





In order to disseminate as widely as possible timely and significant materials of interest to the educational community, documents announced in the 
monthly abstract Journal of the ERIC system, Resources in Education (RIE), are usually made available to users In microfiche, reproduced paper copy, 
and electronic media, and sold through the ERIC Document Reproduction Service (EDRS). Credit is given to the source of each document, and, if 
reproduction release is granted, one of the following notices is affixed to the document. 



If permission is granted to reproduce and disseminate the tdentified document, please CHECK ONE of the following three options and sign at the bottom 
of the page. 



The sample sticker shown below will be The sample sticker shown below wID be The sample sticker shown below wfH be 




Level 1 

T 



_ Level ZA 
i-i- 



Level 2B 

T 




r't j % 

v.t s : 












Check here for Level 1 release, pemtittino reproduction Check here for Level 2A release, permitting reproduction Check here for Level 2B release, pemtitting 

and dissemination In microfiche or other ERIC archival and dissemination in nticrofiche aiwl In electronic media reproduction and disseTnination in microf i che only 

media (e.g.. electronic) and papw copy. for ERIC archival coOection subscribers only 



Documents will be processed as Indicatad provided reproduction quality permits. 

If permission to reproduce Is granted, but no box Is checked, documents will be processed at Level 1 . 



/ hereby grant to the Educationa! Resources Information Center (ERIC) nonexclusive permission to reproduce and disseminate this document 
as indicated above. Reproductidh from the ERIC microfiche or electronic media by persons other than ERIC employees and its system 
contractors requ^s permission from the copyright holder. Exception is made for non-profit reproduction by libranes and other sen/ice agencies 
to satisfy information needs of educators in response to discrete inquiries. 



Signature; / ^ / 


Printed Name/PosHlorVritle: 

^VK^-S’ Pi'r^e'Ter 








- V 30 Trinity St., Hartford CT 06106 


"E-MairAddress: , 

cclce@cxDnmx. com 


'^izlnhs- 



Sign 

here,-^ 

pltia^ 



(over) 





