DOCUMENT RESUME 
ED 357 426 EA 024 818 


TITLE Connecticut Task Force on Charter Schools Report. 
Prepared for the Education Committee of the 
Connecticut General Assembly and the Connecticut 
State Board of Education Pursuant to Public Act 
91-285. 

INSTITUTION Connecticut State Dept. of Education, Hartford. 

PUB DATE 7 Feb 92 

NOTE 39p.; Uneven print density may affect legibility. 

PUB TYPE Guides - Non-Classroom Use (055) -- Viewpoints 
(Opinion/Position Papers, Essays, etc.) (120) 


EDRS PRICE MFO1/PCO2 Plus Postage. 

DESCRIPTORS Accountability; Elementary Secondary Education; Equal 
Education; Governance; *Pilot Projects; *Professional 
Autonomy; *Public Education; School Administration; 
School Choice; *State Action; Teacher 
Participation 

IDENTIFIERS *Charter Schools; “Connecticut; Empowerment 


ABSTRACT 

In this report, Connecticut's Task Force on Charter 
Schools recommends enacting legislation to establish six pilot 
charter schools to begin operation in fail 1994. As public schools or 
educational programs operating under a State Board of Education 
charter, charter schools would be: committed to quality student 
outcomes; staffed and controlled by certified teachers; and open to 
all students on an equal opportunity basis. The main body of the 
report consists of specific recommendations using a 
question-answer-discussion format. Church-related charter schools 
would not be permitted, and private schools would be ineligible to 
apply for charters. Like other state public schools, charter schools 
would be accountable for student achievement and assessment results. 
Teachers would be empowered to govern their charter school 
facilities; they would determine their school's curriculum and 
policies, develop annual budgets, set salaries, establish their own 
tenure rules, and make all employment decisions. Regulatory control 
would be minimal. Parents could choose to enroll their children in a 
charter school or withdraw them if dissatisfied with the school's 
performance. Because charter schools could draw enrollment from more 
than one town, they could attract diverse student bodies. For each 
child enrolled, a charter school would receive payment from the 
district where the student resides equal to 90 percent of the net 
current per pupil expenditure. Included are a proposed time line, a 
copy of the proposed statutory authority, and a report summary. 
(MLH) 


kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkeKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKEE 


S Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made . 


from the original document. ° 
TOGO SCE OIGI IE aC age aed ak ak de de de acai see eae ae sk 


%* 


REPORT OF THE 


CONNECTICUT TASK FORCE ON 


ED3857426 


CHARTER SCHOOLS 


Prepared for the 
Education Committee of the Connecticut General Assembly 
and the 
Connecticut State Board of Education 


Pursuant to Public Act 91-285 


February 7, 1992 


US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
ce of Educational Research and improvement 
ATIONAL RESOURCES INFORMATION 
ENTER (ERIC) 
mS Gocument has been reproduced as 
ved from the person or organization 
ginating it 
nanges have been made to improve 
uchon Quality 


S of wew OF Opinions siated in this docu 
mt do not necessarily represent official 


54 CRY FIF 


Table of Contents 


Letter of Transmittal 


Multicultural Performance 

Based Education in Accordance with the 
Connecticut Comron Core of Learning 
Parental Participation 

Statutory or Regulatory Waivers 

Other Recommendations 


Proposed Time Line for the Establishment of 
Pilot Charter Schools 


Statutory Authority (Public Act 91-285) 


The Connecticut Task Force 


on Charter Schools 


February 17, 1992 


Mr. John Mannix, Chairperson 
Connecticut State Board of Education 


Senator Kevin Sullivan, Co-Chairperson 
Education Committee 
Connecticut General Assembly 


Representative Nancy W.man, Co-Chairperson 
Education Committee 
Connecticut General Assembly 


Dear Mr. Mannix, Senator Sullivan & Representative Wyman: 


I am pleased to present herewith the Report of the Task Force 
on Charter Schools which has been prepared pursuant to Public Act 
91-285: An Act Concerning Innovative Educational Programs. Since 
convening in the fall of 1991, our group has met on nine occasions 
to ¢ ore the concept of charter schools and to consider ways in 
whicnm it might contribute to the welfare of children and the 
improvement of public education in Connecticut. 


The Task Force has concluded that the charter schools idea is 
of sufficient merit to warrant the creation of a limited number of 
pilot Charter Schools. We believe that such pilots would help to 
determine the degree of teacher and parent interest in alternatives 
to existing forms of public education. They would also provide 
tangible evidence of the extent to which charter schools can 
contribute to the improvenent of student performance. 


This report represents the view of the majority of the Task 
Force members who voted seven to one to endorse it. It does not 
necessarily represent the views of the various organizations with 
which the Task Force members are associated. These groups reserve 
the right to make their own comments on the charter schools 
proposal, either in writing or at public hearings. 


Charter Schools represent only one of many ways to improve our 
public schools. We encourage concerned educators and citizens to 
continue pursuing other reforms intended to render public education 
more effective for all of the children of Connecticut. 


We appreciate this opportunity to bring the concept of ch 
schools to the attention of the General Assembly and the 
Board of Education. We look forward to discussing 
recommendations with you during the weeks ahead. 


Sincerely yours, 


StephencC. Tracy, Chairp 
Task Force on Charter Sc 


4 


Members of tne Charter Schools Task Force 


Task Force Members 


Appointed by 


Richard Farr 
Connecticut Association of 
Boards of Education 

Brian J. Flaherty 


State Representative from 
the 68th District 


Connecticut Education 
Association 
Marie Iannazzi 
Principal, 
Cranberry Elementary 
Norwalk, Connecticut 
Lauren Weisberg Kaufman 
Connecticut Business 
Industry Association 
John R. Reed 


Connecticut Association of 


Public School Superintendents 


George Springer 


Connecticut State Federation 


of Teachers 


Majority Leader of the 
House of Representatives 


Ranking House Member of 
the Education Committee 


Speaker of the House 


Ranking Senate Member of 
the Education Committee 


President Pro Tempore of 
the Senate 


Minority Leader of the 
House 


Minority Leader of the 
Senate 


Task Force Members 


Appointed by 


Betty Sternberg 
Connecticut State Department 
of Education 
Tedder 
Regional Education Service 
Center Directors 

John W. Thompson 


State Representative from the 
13th District 


Stephen C. Tracy, Chairperson 


New Milford, Connecticut 


Commissioner of Education 


Majority Leader of the 
Senate 


House Chair of the 
Education Committee 


Senate Chair of the 
Education Committee 


REPORT OF THE CONNECTICUT TASK FORCE 
ON CHARTER SCHOOLS 


Summary 


Connecticut's Charter Schools Task Force was established in 
1991 by Public Act 91-285: An Act Concerning Innovative 
Educational Programs. The Task Force was charged with studying the 
feasibility of establishing Charter Schools under the auspices of 
the State Board of Education. 


The Task Force recommends enactment of legislation to 
establish six pilot Charter Schools which would commence operation 
in the fall of 1994. 


Charter Schools are Public Schools: 


A Charter School is a public school that operates under a 
charter granted by the State Board of Education. It is committed 
to quality student outcomes, staffed and controlled by certified 
teachers, publicly funded and open to all students on an equal 
opportunity basis. 


Because the proposed Charter Schools would be public schools, 


church related Charter Schools would not be permitted. Existing 
private schools would not be eligible to apply for charters. 


Charter Schools would be Accountable for Student Achievement: 


Like any other public school in Connecticut, Charter Schools 
would be committed to achieving the goals that are enumerated in 
Connecticut's Common Core of Learning. Charter School students 
would participate in all required assessment activities, including 
the state mastery testing program. Testing results would be 
available to the public as a basis for informed parent choice and 
as a means of measuring the impact of the Charter Schools on 
student achievement. 


Charter Schools would Empower Teachers: 


Charter Schools would be governed by their faculties. 
Teachers would determine their school's curriculum and policies, 
develop the annual budget, set salaries, establish their own tenure 
rules and make all employment decisions. Teachers would decide 


whether to employ any administrative or support personnel, and 
whether to purchase services from other organizations. 


The same collective bargaining laws that apply to existing 
public schools would apply to Charter Schools. 


Because Charter Schools teachers would accept an unusual 
degree of accountability for the performance of their students, 
they should be provided with considerable autonomy in the operation 
of their schools. Regulatory control should be held to a minimun, 
modeled on the requirements imposed through the state's non-pubic 
school approval process. Charter School teachers should be able 
to request the waiver of specific state regulations through their 
charter applications. 


Charter Schools would Empower Parents: 


Parents could choose to enroll their children in a Charter 
School as an alternative to traditional public schools. Parents 
could withdraw their children if they were not satisfied with the 
Charter School's performance. As a result, they would be respected 
as important partners in the educational process. 


Charter Schools would Promote Equal Opportunity: 


Because Charter Schools could draw enrollment from more than 
one town, they would be able to attract more diverse student bodies 
than those of many traditional public schools. 


Charter Schools would be Cost Effective: 


For every child who enrolls, a Charter School would receive 
payment from the school district in which the student resides, 
equal to 90% of the district's Net Current Expenditures per pupil. 
These payments would be deducted from the district's Educational 
Cost Sharing grant. Thus the Charter Schools program could be 
implemented at no new cost to the taxpayer. 


Charter School teachers could also apply for and receive funds 
from other public and private sources. 


Introduction 


The need for dramatic improvements in public education is 
widely acknowledged by parents, educators, business leaders and 
other concerned citizens throughout our state. Clearly, the 
quality of our lives and the prosperity of our nation will be 
jeopardized unless our schools respond effectively to the challenge 
of global economic competition. 


Providing a world class education for all of Connecticut's 
children will require fundamental changes in the ways public 
schools are structured. The Task Force believes that the charter 
schools concept represents one appreach to the reform of public 
education that is worthy of consideration and further development. 


As defined by the Task Force, the term "charter school" means 
a public school or educational program that is: 


ie operated under a charter granted by the State Board of 
Education; 


committed to quality outcomes for students and 
performance based assessments, consistent with the 
Connecticut Common Core of Learning; 


staffed and controlled by certified teachers; 
publicly funded; and 
open to all students. 
The Task Force believes that the charter schools concept could 
result in important improvements to public education, for the 


following reasons: 


ie Charter schools would allow for reform and change within 
the public system. 


Charter schools would promote professionalism for 
teachers. 


Charter schools would provide for a focus on outcomes for 
students. 


Charter schools could result in a more responsive system 
of public education. 


-2- 


Charter schools would provide for a more active role for 
parents and teachers in the creation and implementation 
of new schools. 


Charter schools represent a response to dissatisfaction 
with the present system. 


Charter schools would invite those now in the system of 
public education to try new ideas, to stretch, to try 
things that they may not be able to do under the current 
system. 


Charter schools could be a useful vehicle for promoting 
quality integrated education on a voluntary basis. 


A school reform proposal makes sense only to the extent that 
it provides teachers, parents and students with the wherewithal to 
improve the quality of learning. The welfare and growth of 
children must remain the focus of attention. The Task Force urges 
the Connecticut General Assembly and the State Board of Education 
to support the pilot Charter Schools program described on the 
following pages. We believe it could make ae significant 
contribution to the cause of public education in our state. 


Task Force Recammendations 


The legislation that establi.hed the Charter Schools Task 
Force directed it to address nine particular areas of concern. The 
following recommendations are grouped in accordance with those nine 
areas. For each area, we identify the issues that the we believe 
are important and recommend a specific course of action. 


Issue: Who should be empowered to grant charters for 
the pilot Charter Schools? 


Recommendation: Charters should be granted by the State board 
of Education. 


Discussion: Vesting the authority to grant charters in the 
State Board of Education will promote 
consistency in the approval of applications 
from across the state. Board action on a 
charter application would be taken on true 
recommendation of the Commissioner following 
staff review. 


Issue: What should a charter and charter application 
consist of? 


Recommendation: A charter application should include: 


The philosophy, mission and purpose of the 
proposed school, and a description of the 
instructional approach and 
comprehensiveness of the school's 
offerings. 


Information about the background, 
qualifications and certification of the 
teachers who propose to create the school; 


A general description of the school's 
organization, in terms of ages or grades 


Recommendation: 


to be taught and the total enrollment to 
be served; 


a highlighting of the skills, knowledge, 
attitudes and understandings called for 
in Connecticut's Common Core of Learning 
which the school will address; 


a description of enrollment procedures 
which will ensure public notice and open 
access for all students, without regard 
to wealth, race, handicap or past academic 
performance. 


a description of the means by which 
student learning will be assessed, 
including participation in all state 
mandated testing and performance 
assessment programs, and the ways in which 
results will be used for purposes of 
program improvement; 


a plan of governance. 


evidence of outreach and support, 
including consultation with local or 
regional boards of education. 


a description of the means by which the 
school intends to meet facilities, 
transportation, health and welfare 
requirements. 


a five year plan for developing and 
Sustaining the school's operation. 


a list of any state regulatory waivers 
that the school may wish to request. 


What role should Regional Education Service 
Centers (RESCs) play in the development of 
proposals for pilot Charter Schools? 


Teachers wishing to apply for a charter to 
operate a pilot Charter School should receive 
assistance from and submit their proposals to 
the RESC in their area of the state. The most 
promising charter proposals should then be 
submitted to the State Board of Education on 


~ 


the recomrendation of the Board of Directors (2) 
of each RESC. 


oe eel 


Discussion: This approach will insure higher quality 
proposals and will provide for a distribution 
ef pilot programs around the state. 


Issue: How many pilot Charter Schools should be 
approved? 
, ¥ 
Recommendation: A total of six pilot schools should be 


approved, to begin operation in the fall of 

1994. Each RESC should be invited to recommend (3) 
up to three charter applications. Depending 

on the merits of the applications, the State 

Board of Education should seek to approve pi sets 
schools in several regions of the state. 


Discussion: Because the Charter Schools concept does not 
prescribe any one model of how a school should 
be run, it is important that several pilot 
Charter Schools be placed in operation. If 
just one pilot is offered, the impression might 
be created that it is the only kind of Charter 
School that is possible. Also, six pilots will 
provide a richer picture of how the Charter 
Schools concept should be refined and how it 
might contribute to the future of public 
education on Connecticut. 


Issue: What should be the role of local boards of 
education in the pilot Charter Schools effort? 


Recommendation: Charter applicants should share their proposals 
with local boards of education in the areas 
from which they intend to draw students. Local 
boards should be afforded the opportunity to 
comment on the Charter application. 


Discussion: Consultation and cooperation between Charter 
Schools and local boards of education should 
be encouraged. However, local boards should 
not have the authority to “veto” the creation 
of a Charter School. 


issue: 


Recommendation: 


Discussion: 


Issue: 


Recommendation: 


Issue: 


Recommendation: 


Discussion: 


For what period of time should the charters for 
the pilot Charter Schools be valid? 


Five years. 


An interim review of the pilot Charter Schools, 
including a review of student performance, 
should be conducted by the State Department of 
Education after three years of operation. 
After five years, each of the pilot schools 
should be examined, either directly by the 
State Department of Education, or by an 
accrediting agency acting on behalf of the 
Department. The focus of the examination 
should be on the School's compliance with the 
provisions of its charter and on the 
performance of its students. On the basis of 
the examination, the State Board of Education 
should vote whether or not to renew the 
charters. 


Under what circumstances should a charter be 
revoked or not renewed? 


The State Board of Education should be 
empowered to revoke the charter of a Charter 
School if the school was found to be in 
violation of a provision of the charter, or 
if, over a period of years, the school's 
students were found not to be making reasonable 
progress in their learning. A school whose 
charter is being considered for revocation 
should be given adequate notice and opportunity 
to correct any problems or challenge any 
alleged violations prior to the loss of the 
charter. 


Could an existing private school become a 
Charter School? 


No. 


Charter Schools are public schools. They are 
open to enrollment by all students without 
tuition and without selectivity on the basis 
of wealth, race, handicap or past academic 
performance. Therefore, charter applications 


issue: 


Recommendation: 


Discussion: 


should be accepted only from certified 
educators who wish to create new public 
schools, either on their own or in conjunction 
with local school districts. 


Should church related Charter Schools’ be 
permitted? 


No. 


Because they are "public schools", Charter 
Schools should be held to the same restrictions 
regarding separation of church and state as 
apply to other public schools in Connecticut. 


How should the Charter Schools themselves be 
governed? 


Decisions as to the internal governance of 
Charter Schools should be left up to the 
teachers who create them. The governance plan 
should be spelled out in the charter 
application. Essentially, Charter Schools 
should be governed by their faculties, in a 
manner described by the teachers who create 
them. 


Some Charter School applicants may decide to 
have all decisions by vote of the faculty; some 
may favor the election of representatives from 
the faculty to make decisions; others may which 
to elect a “managing partner" to make certain 
decisions. There are many other possibilities. 
The essential point is that, as with other 
professional partnerships, decisions about 
governance should be left up to the 
professionals who create the organization. 


Issue: 


Recommendation: 


Discussion: 


ae Organization 


How should Charter Schools be organized? 


Decisions as to the organization of each 
Charter School should be left to the teachers 
who establish the school. Key organizational 
plans (including the grade levels or age levels 
of children to be served and the approximate 
size of the school's enrollment) should be 
spelled out in the charter application. 


Again, an important part of treating teachers 
as true professional lies in empowering ther 
to make their own decisions about the 
Organization of their school. Rather than 
prescribing one best model, the state should 
encourage teachers to develop a variety of 
organizational approaches. 


Issue: 


Recommendation: 


Discussion: 


Issue: 


Recommendation: 


Discussion: 


as Emrol iment 


What should the enrollment of a Charter School 
be? 


The size of a charter school should be 
determined by the faculty. 


A group of professionals should be allowed to 
determine the number of clients that it wishes 
to serve. 


Should a Charter School serve only students who 
live in the town in which it is located? 


Charter School enrollments should not be 
limited by town boundaries. Any student whe 
is a resident of Connecticut should be allowed 
to enroll in a Charter School. 


Since Charter Schools operate under. the 
authority of the State Board of Education, they 
need not restrict enrollment to any particular 
town. Also, because their enrollment areas can 
extend beyond town boundaries, Charter Schools 
can help achieve the goal of equal opportunity 
by attracting more diverse student bodies than 
those of traditional public schools. 


School Supervision & Staffing 


Issue: Who should be allowed to apply for and receive 
a charter to operate a Charter School? 


Recommendation: Individuals who have received certificates to 
teach in the state of Connecticut from the 
Department of Education. 


Discussion: Requiring that charter applicants hold state 
teaching certificates provides assurance that 
Charter School faculties consist of individuals 
who have met the same educational and training 
requirements as teachers in traditional public 
schools. While a Charter School faculty might 
choose to employ non-certified individuals to 
serve in paraprofessional or support positions, 
the “charter” faculty members who govern the 
school should hold Connecticut teaching 
certificates. 


What should the minimum size of a Charter 
School faculty be? 


Recommendation: Two certified educators. 


Discussion: A minimum size of two would provide for the 
benefits of teamwork and collaboration, while 
not being overly restrictive. 


Within a Charter School, should teachers be 
permitted to teach outside of their areas of 
certification? 


Recommendation: Yes. Areas in which teachers intenée to provide 
instruction should be describead in their 
charter application. 


Discussion: Because Charter Schools are likely to be 
relatively small, they probably would not 
employ a sufficient number of specialists to 
meet all traditional certification 
requirements. Therefore, beyond requiring 
possession of a state teaching certificate, 
specific certification area requirements should 


Issue: 


Recommendation: 


Discussion: 


Recommendation: 


-ii- 


be waived. Such waivers are justified by the 
fact that Charter Schools are outcome oriented. 
The emphasis is on the performance of the 
students, not on the certification endorsements 
of the faculty. 


What sort of Supervisory or management 
positions should exist in a Charter School? 


Decisions about supervisory or management 
positions should be left up to the teachers who 
create each Charter Schcol. 


The very word "supervision" reflects a non- 
professional view of teaching (as in “teachers 
are people who need to be supervised"). The 
Charter Schools idea reflects a professional 
view of teaching (as in “teachers are people 
who are in charge of their schools; they do 
not need to be 'supervised'"). 


The decision as to whether any management or 
administrative positions are needed in a 
Charter School should be up to the faculty of 
the school. Any such administrators would be 
employed by and would report to the teachers, 
rather than the other way around. 


What protection should be extended to current 
public school teachers (in terms of tenure, 
seniority, benefits, etc.) who wish to 
establish a Charter School? 


Teachers currently practicing in the public 
schools of Connecticut should be entitled to 
a two year leave of absence from their 
positions in order to found a Charter School. 
Said leave should be without compensation, 
Since teachers would be compensated through. 
their Charter School. Teachers should have the 
option of purchasing insurance coverage from 
their school districts at the applicable COBRA 
rates during their period of leave. At the end 
of the two year period, teachers would either 
return to their former teaching posts (at the 
same point that they left their districts in 
terms of tenure, seniority and pay) or, if they 


DsSecussi6n: 


Issue: 


Recommendation: 


chose to continue with the Charter School, the 
would resign from. their school distri 
position. 


Practicing teachers should be provided with a 
"safety net" in case their venture with Charter 
Schools does not work out. At some point, 
however, a teacher would need to decide whether 
or not to abandon the relative security of a 
traditional teaching position for the control 
and autonomy of the Charter School. 


Should the Charter Schools program enable home 
schooling parents to receive funds for the 
education of their own children? 


No. 
The Charter Schools proposal is intended to 


support the creation of new public schools open 
to all children. It is not meant to provide 


a subsidy for home schooling. 


\| 


(5) School Facilities 


Issue: How and where will Charter Schools be housed? 


Recommendation: Decisions regarding facilities for a Charter 
School should be made by the teachers who 
operate it. 


Discussion: Like all other important decisions, decisions 
about facilities for a Charter School should 
be made by the teachers who obtain the charter. 


A Charter School faculty might decide to lease 
space from an existing elementary or secondary 
school, from a college or university, or fror 
some other source. Charter applicants should 
include information about their facilities 
plans in the application. 


Issue: What requirements should be imposed on 
facilities for charter schools? 


Recommendation: Charter schools should be held to the same 
building code, fire, safety and sanitation 
requirements as are currently required of 
private schools that seek state approval. 


Discussion: Between the time that a charter is awarded and 
the time that a Charter School begins 
operation, the specific facility would be 
identified and made available for inspection 
by local and state officials. The same 
mechanism that the State Department of 
Education has in place for the approval of 
facilities for non-public schools should be 
used for the approval of Charter School 
facilities. This process covers fire, safety, 
health, welfare and sanitation requirements. 
(See A Summary of Connecticut Statutes and 
Regulations Relating to Non-Public Schools, 


State Department of Education, December, 1990.) 


« 


-14- 


(6) Funding Sources 

Issue: Where should the money for Charter Schools come 
from? 

Recommendation: Primary funding for each Charter School should 


come from the local school districts in which 
the Charter School's students reside. 


Discussion: This proposal is similar to the means by which 
student participation in vocational agriculture 
programs is currently financed. When a student 
decides to enroll in a vo-ag program, the 
school district in which the student resides 
is billed for the tuition. 


There are two advantages in requiring local 
school districts to provide funding for 
students who enroll in Charter Schools: 


Zs By allowing education dollars to follow 
the student, the Charter Schools plan can 
be implemented at no new cost to state or 
local taxpayers. 


tw 


Because existing districts would "lose" 
dollars with every student that attends 
a Charter School, districts would have an 
incentive to improve the quality of their 
programs so that parents would not choose 
to remove their children to a Charter 
School. This incentive for quality 
represents an important benefit for the 
majority of students who would continue 
to attend traditional public schools. 


Issue: How should the payments to be paid to a Charter 
School by a local school district be calculated 
and collected? 


equal to 90% of its Net Current Expenditure Per 
Pupil for each of its resident students who is: 


; ! 
Recommendation: The local school district shovid pay an amount ‘| 
| (5) 
enrolled in a Charter School. 


23 


Discussion: 


-15- 


Current operating expenses for each Charter 
School should be funded by the state, at a 
level equal to 90% of the Net Current 
Expenditures of the districts in which its 
students reside. These funds would be directed 
to the Regional Educational Service Centers for 
the regions in which the Charter Schools are 
located. The state should recover this cost 
in the rollowing year by deducting it from the 
Educational Cost Sharing grant payments to the 
districts in which Charter School students 
reside. 


This approach has several advantages: 


It leaves local school districts with a 
significant balance with which to cover 
“fixed overhead" -- costs that do not 
necessarily go down just because a few 
students leave for a Charter School. 
Districts would not give wp 100% of their 
Net Current Expenditure, but only 90%. 
Also, the Net Current Expenditures 
calculation excludes significant local 
district expenditures for construction, 
transportation and special education. 
100% of these resources would be retained 
by local districts. 


It accounts for regional variations in 
costs and educational expenditures. 


It assures that charter schools will not 
operate et a financial advantage vis-a- 
vis traditional public schools. (In fact, 
Charter Schools would have to be more cost 
effective than traditional public schools, 
since they would operate on less money per 
pupil than that spent by the _ local 
districts in which their students reside. ) 


It assures that teachers and parents who 
are involved in Charter Schools will 
continue to be concerned about adequate 
funding for “traditional” public schools. 
One of the criticisms of “parent choice" 
is that it would undermine support for 
existing public schools because parents 
who had enrolled their children in schools 
of choice would no longer care about the 


| 


1 


’ 
! 


-16- 


funding of pubic education. By connecting 
Charter School funding to per pupil 
expenditures in local school districts, 
we insure continued financial support for 
traditional public schools on the part of 
Charter School participants. 


aa Deducting Charter Schools costs from ECS 
grants for the year after a pupil eirolls 
in a Charter School would enable local 
districts to anticipate the impact of 
Charter School enrollments on their 
revenues and expenses, rather than being 
caught by surprise in the current year. If 


If the state's fiscal circumstances improve for 4] 

the 1994-95 fiscal year (the yerr in which the 
proposed pilot Charter Schools would commence 
operations), consideration should be given to (&) 
establishing a grant program that would further 
cushion the impact of Charter School 
enrollments on local districts. ‘ 


Issue: Should Charter Schools be allowed to charge 
tuition to the parents of the children whor 
they enroll? 


Recommendation: No. 

Discussion: Since Charter Schools are public schools, they 
should not charge tuition to the parents of 
children whom they enroll. Since Charter 


Schools would receive substantial funding via 
local school districts, tuition charges to 
families should not be necessary. Also, a "no 
tuition" approach is important because it helps 
to insure equal access to Charter Schools for 
children whose families are not in a position 
tO pay. 


Issue: Should a Charter School be allowed to receive 
grants from public and private sources? 


Recommendation: Yes. 


Di 8Cuses3 on: 


Issue: 


Recommendation: 


! 
~~ 
J 

! 


Like any other public school, a Charter School 
should be able to apply for and receive state 
and federal grants, foundation awards and 
private gifts consistent with its mission. 
Such assistance should be allowed up to the 
point where the Net Current Expenses of a pilot 
Charter School equals the highest Net Current 
Expenditure among the school districts from 
which it draws its pupils. If the pilot 
Charter Schools are to be replicated in other 
communities in future years, it is important 
that their success not be attributed to 
unusvally high levels of spending. 


Should successful charter applicants be 
provided with "seed money” with which to help 
Organize and launch their Charter School? 


Yes. Charter School applicants should be 
encouraged to apply for planning funds through 
existing state grant programs, including the 
Interdistrict Cooperative Grant. It is 
recommended that funds for the Interdistrict 
Grant be expanded from the current $2 million 
to $2.5 million, and that 5% of these funds be 
set aside for the planning of Charter Schools 
consistent with the purposes of the grant. 
Applicants should also be encouraged to seek 
planning funds through other state and federal 
programs, and from private sources. 


6 OT 
ro 


{ 


Ig 


| 


Multicultural Performance and Outcome-Based 
Education in Accordance with the 
Connecticut Cammon Core of Learning 


Recommendation: 


Discussion: 


Issue: 


Recommendation: 


What requirements should Charter Schools be 
held to with respect to goals for student 
learning? 


Charter Schools should be required to address 
the outcomes described in Connecticut's Common 
Core of Learning. Charter applicants should 
affirm their commitment to the Common Core in 
their application and describe the particular 
aspects of the Common Core that they plan to 
emphasize. 


An important aspect of any public school is the 
commitment to pursue certain publicly endorsed 
goals for student learning. Fortunately, 
Connecticut issued a very clear statement of 
its goals for learning in 1987, in the form of 


the Common Core of Learning. The Common Core 
includes important expectations in the realm 
of multicultural education under the heading 
of “Understandings and Applications”. These 
expectations should apply equally to all public 
schools in the state, including Charter 
Schools. 


How will student outcomes be measured? 


Students in Charter Schools should be subject 
to the same performance measures as required 
by the state for all other public school 
students. This should include the existing 
mastery testing program, as well as new forms 
of assessment (portfolios, etc.) that may be 
required in the future. 


Beyond the performance measures required by the 
state, the faculty of each Charter School 
should be encouraged to establish additional 
means by which to assess and report the 
progress of their students. These assessment 
strategies should be set forth in the charter 
application. 


Discussion: 


Recommendation: 


Discussion: 


-19- 


Charter Schools should be required to report 
the results of student assessments to the 
parents of their students, to the State Board 
of Education, to the school districts in which 
their student reside, and to the public at 
large. 


Student performance data should be available 
to the State Department of Education, to 
colleges and universities and other 
organizations for research purposes. 


A key premise of the Charter Schools idea is 
that it will result in improved learning for 
students. Therefore the assessment and 
reporting of outcomes is essential. Parents 
will want this information so that they can 
make intelligent decisions about whether to 
enroll their children in a Charter School. 
Research findings about the performance of 
Charter School students could inform and 
improve practices in traditional public 
schools. 


What instructional strategies and materials 
should Charter Schools be required to employ? 


None. 


Charter Schools should be required to address 
the goals of the Common Core and to participate 
in state assessment programs. However, the 
means by which they organize and deliver 
instruction should be left up to their 
teachers. 


Charter Schools legislation should not 
prescribe any particular instructional 
methodology. Charter Schools should be 
encouraged to seek improvement through a 
variety of instructional approaches. The 
Charter Schools plan should promote ownership 
and commitment on the part of teachers by 
allowing them to teach in the manner that they 
believe will be most effective in achieving the 
goals of the Common Core. Charter Schools 
teachers who plan to emphasize a particular 
instructional approach should describe that 
approach in their charter. 


Issue: 


Recommendation: 


Discussion: 


(8) 


Parental Participation 


Who should decide to enroll a child in a 
Charter School? 


The decision to apply for membership in a 
Charter School should be left up to each 
child's parent. Parents should retain the 
right to remove their children from a Charter 
School and return them to the public school 
serving their community. 


Parent choice is critical to the viability of 
the Charter School concept for three reasons: 


Because Charter Schools may be different 
from traditional public schools, it would 
not be appropriate to compel a family to 
participate. Participation should be 
voluntary on the part of families as well 
as teachers; 


Because Charter Schools would be run by 
teachers, parents could not turn to a 
board of education or an administrator to 
correct those aspects of school operations 
to which they might object. In the 
absence of the traditional 
political/bureaucratic forms of 
accountability, parents need the right to 
enroll their students in the Charter 
School of their choice and to withdraw the 
student if they see fit. It is through 
choice that Charter Schools assure 
responsiveness and accountability to 
parents without a bureaucratic structure 
to tell teachers how to teach. 


We believe that parents who have had a 
real say in the selection of a school for 
their children are more likely to support 
the school and help it to be successful. 


What if parents are not well informed about the 
educational choices available to them in 
Charter Schools? 


Recommendation: 


Discussion: 


Recommendation: 


Discussion: 


-21 


Regional Education Service Centers’ should 
provide parents with relevant information about 
the Charter Schools in their areas. 


It would be useful for parents to have access 
to information about Charter Schools in some 
common format, including the contents of the 
school's charter and data about’ student 
performance. Charter Schools themselves could 
be expected to provide various forms of 
information and orientation in order to attract 
enrollment. 


How often should a parent be allowed to change 
the enrollment of a child into or out of a 
Charter School? 


Children who are enrolled in a Charter School 
should be expected to remain there for at least 
a semester. Students who wish to enroll in a 
Charter School should be allowed to do so only 
at the beginning of the fall or _ spring 
semester. These arrangements would minimize 
the disruption the would result from children 
moving between Charter Schools and regular 
public schools during the year. 


What forms of parental participation should be 
required in the operation of a Charter School? 


None. 


The faculty of each charter school should 
determine the forms that parental participation 
will take, in consultation with the parents. 


Mandated forms of parent involvement are only 
necessary in schools in which the parents have 
no choice and therefore no real power. 


The Task Force believes that professional 
educators, not parents, should run a Charter 
School. By providing parents with the power 
of choice, the Charter Schools plan assures 
that parents will be treated with respect and 
involved in the operation of the school in an 


manner. A Charter School that 
to do so risks loosing enrollment andi 


We believe that parents who have exercised the 
power to choose a school for their children 
will feel more involved and committed to the 
school than will parents who have no choice, 
even without a mandatory "parent advisory 
council”. 


What about children whose parents, for whatever 
reason, do not look out for their best 
educational interests? 

A public school administrator, teacher or 
counselor should be able to nominate a student 


for enrollment in a Charter School, provided 


that the approval of the student's parents is 
obtained. 


Also, the Department of Children and Youth 
Services should have the authority to nomin 

a child for enrollment in a Charter 
whenever the Department has intervened 

case of family neglect. 


Any program of school choice should provide for 
the involvement of children who cannot rely on 
their parents to choose for them. Educators 
or DCYS representatives who believe that such 
children would be better served by a Charter 
School than by the traditional public schools 
to which they are assigned should be able to 
act on the children's behalf. 


il 


YW 


iw 


(9) Statutory or Requlatory Waivers 


Issue: What statutory or regulatory waivers should be 
extended to Charter Schools? 


Recommendation: In general, Charter Schools should be held tc 
the same mandates as any other puklic schools 
with respect to student outcomes, assessment 
health, fire and safety codes. Beyond that, 
regulations related to the manner in which a 
school should be operated and the manner in 
which instruction should be organized should 
be waived. 


Discussion: Charter School teachers are entitled to a 
remarkable degree of professional autonory 
because they voluntarily accept a remarkable 
degree of professional accountability. Unlike 
a traditional public school, a Charter School 
can lose its charter if it fails to live up tc 
the charter's provisions. Unlike teachers in 
a traditional public school, teachers in a 
Charter School can lose resources and incore 
if they fail to live up to the expectations of 
parents. Therefore, every effort should be 
made to avoid telling them how to conduct their 
business. The limited set of requirements that 
are imposed on private schools through the 
state school approval process should serve as 
a model for the approval of charter schools. 
(See A Summary of Connecticut Statutes and 
Regulations Relating to Non-Public Schools, 
State Department of Education, December, 1990.) 


Charter Schools teachers who believe that a 
particular rule will interfere with their 
ability to achieve success with their students 

should be given the opportunity to make the 

case for its waiver as a part of the charter 
application process. Waivers are not intended 'J 

to enable Charter Schools to avoid their (" ) 
obligations to students. Rather, they are, (ve 
intended to enable Charter Schools teachers to 


meet those obligations in more effective and); 
creative ways. ‘ 


Charter Schools would need to comply with the 
requirements of any grant program through which 


they receive assistance. 


R22 


Recommendation: 


Discussion: 


Issue: 


Recommendation: 


Discussion: 


Recommendation: 


(10) Other 


Should the collective bargaining laws that 
apply to public school teachers apply also to 
teachers in a charter school? 


Yes. 


As professional educators, teachers in Charter 
Schools should have the same right to affiliate 
with a collective bargaining organization as 
any other teacher. 


Should teachers in a charter school have the 
opportunity to earn tenure? 


Yes. The process by which Charter School 
teachers earn tenure should be determined by 
the faculty of each Charter School, so long as 
the process is at least as demanding as that 
contained in current state law. The tenure 
process should be set forth in the charter 
application. 


Consistent with our belief in teacher 
empowerment, we believe that Charter School 
teachers should determine their own tenure 
rules, rather than have a uniform systen 
imposed upon then. Some charter school 
faculties may wish to have teachers earn tenure 
automatically after a fixed period of service. 
Others may wish to have tenure granted by a 
vote of the faculty. Many other approaches 
are no doubt possible. 


What about the many “nuts and bolts" aspects 
of school operation that are typically handled 
by administrators? Would Charter School 
teachers have to assume these duties? 


No. Charter Schools would be free to "job out" 
or "sub contract” for services like 
transportation, business operations, custodial 
services, etc. They may wish to purchase these 


43 


issue: 


Recommendation: 


Discussion: 


Recommendation: 


Recommendation: 


Discussion: 


-25- 


services from a local school district, a 
Regional Education Service Center, a college 
Or university, or some other source. 


What about insurance for Charter School 
employees? 


Charter School employees should have the option 
of enrolling in insurance and benefit progrars 
offered by Regional Education Service Centers. 


The Service Center arrangement accounts for the 
fact that most Charter Schools will be too 
small to obtain cost effective benefit packages 
for their employees. However, as with most 
other aspects of Charter Schocl operations, if 
the faculty of a Charter School feels that it 
can make better arrangements outside of the 
Service Center program, it is free to do so. 


What sort of a planning or start up period 
would be required to get a Charter School off 
the ground? 


A Charter School faculty should be provided 
with a period of several months following the 
granting of a charter to plan and organize 
their school before actually commencing 
operations. (See the proposed pilot program 
time line, attached.) 


If legislation authorizing the establishment 
of pilot Charter Schools were to be enacted 
during the 1992 session of the General 
Assembly, how much time would be required 
before the first pilot school could open? 


It is recommended that the pilot Charter 
Schools begin operation in the fall of 1994. 


A two year period would be required for the 
development of regulations, review of charter 
applications, detailed planning by the teachers 
who are awarded charters, and the enrollment 
of students. (See time line on page 26.) 


Qa 


PROPOSED TIME LINE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF 


PILOT CHARTER SCHOOLS 


The Task Force proposes the following schedule for the 
estabiishment of pilot Charter Schools: 


BY DATES: ACTION REQUIRED: 


June, : Enactment of Legislation permitting 
establishment of "pilot" Charter Schools. 


September, ba? State Department issues Requests for Proposals 
for the planning of pilot Charter Schools. 


November, 92: Deadline for potential Charter Schools founders 
to submit planning applications. 


November, 

to April, : Regional Education Service Centers conduct 
workshops for and provide advice and assistance 
to potential charter applicants. 


Deadline for submission of charter applications 
to Regional Education Service Centers. 


up to three charter applications to the State 
Board of Education for approval. Nominations | 
may be submitted in priority order. 


The Board of Directors of each RESC rT © 


Issuance of provisional charters to six pilot 
Charter Schools by the State Board of 
Education. 


August, : Charter Schools begin parent information and 
recruiting efforts. 


December, : Deadline for submission of enrollment 
applications to Charter Schools by interested 
parents. 


January, : Student bodies for pilot charter schools 
established; Local school districts informed 
of enrollment of students in Charter Schools. 


Charter Schools receive final approval to begin 
operations, based on site reviews conducted by 
State Department of Education. The Department 
may provide a school with a 60 day grace period 
for correction of any deficiencies noted as the 
result of a site review. 


Pilot Charter Schools begin operation. 


~ 
OW ODAWNNWNSWNre 


11 


we 
wh 


Nr Ree ee 
owo as ny. 


NNN 
wnNnre 


= 28- 


File No. 480 


Substitute House Bill No. 5631 


43) 
State opine ticut 
* 


House of esentatives 
= Rm 


House of Representatives, April 25, 1991. The 
Committee on Education reported tiurough REP. 
WYMAN, S3rd DIST., Chairman of the Committee on 
the part of the House, that the substitute bill 
ought to pass. 


AN ACT CONCERNING INNOVATIVE EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS. 


Be it enacted by the Senate and House of 
Representatives in General Assembly convened: 


Section 1. (NEW) (a) Within the limits of 
available appropriations, the commissioner of 
education shall establish a four-year 


demonstration program to encourage local and 
regional boards of education to develop innovative 


programs for educational improvement. The 
demonstration program shall be conducted for four 
consecutive school years in one rural school, one 


suburban school and one urban school. Local and 
regional boards of education may file an 
application to participate in the program in such 
form and at such time as the commissioner shall 
require. Each application shell include a plan 
developed by the superintendent of schools, or his 
designee, the school principal and teachers 
employed in the school for which such application 
is made. Proposed plans shall provide for (1) 
performance and outcome based education in 
accordance with the Connecticut common core of 
learning adopted by the state board of education 
and (2) an evaluation process to measure academic 
progress and school improvement resulting from 
participation in the program. For purposes of the 


R27 


2 File No. 480 


demonstration program, the commissioner may waive 
requirements under chapters 164, 166 and 168 of 
the general statutes and regulations adopted 
pursuant to said chapters, provided each 
application shall identify (A) the specific 
statutes or regulations from which a waiver is 
requested, if any, and (B) the manner in_ which 
each waiver is expected to assist in achieving 
specified educational benefits. Local and regional 
boards of education may cooperate with businesses 
and nonprofit organizations in developing and 
implementing such plans and may receive and expend 
private funds for purposes of this section. 

(b) The commissioner shall submit an interim 
report on the demonstration program to the joint 
Standing committee of the general assembly having 
cognizance of matters relating to education by 
December 31, 1994, and a final report by December 
31, 1996. 

Sec. 2. (a) There is established a task force 
to study the feasibility of groups of ten or more 
certified teachers, school administrators and 
other school professionals establishing and 
maintaining charter schools with the approval of 
the state board of education. The task force shall 
consider and make recommendations concerning 
requirements for such charter schools, including 
(1) governance, (2) organization, (3) enrollment 
policies, (4) school supervision and staffing, (5) 
school facilities, (6) funding sources, (7) 
multicultural performance and outcome-based 
education in accordance with the Connecticut 
common core of learning adopted by the state board 
of education, (8) parental participation and (9) 
statutory or regulatory waivers. 

(b) The task force shall consist of the 
chairpersons and ranking members of the joint 
standing committee of the general assembly having 
cognizance of matters relating to education, or 
their designees, the commissioner of education, or 
his designee, a representative of the Connecticut 
Business and Industry Association appointed by the 
president pro tempore of the senate, a director of 
@ regional education service center appointed by 
the majority leader of the senate, a member of the 
Connecticut State Federation of Teachers appointed 
by the minority leader of the senate, a 
representative of the Connecticut Education 


72 
73 
74 
75 
76 
77 
78 
79 
80 
81 
82 
83 
84 
85 
86 
87 
88 
89 
90 
91 
92 


93 


«-30- 


File No. 480 3 


Association appointed by the speaker of the house 
of representatives, a representative of the 
Connecticut Association of Boards of Education 
appointed by the majority leader of the house of 
representatives and a representative of the 
Connecticut Association of School Administrators 
appointed by the minority leader of the house of 
representatives. Appointments shall be made by 
August 15, 1991, and the chairpersons of the joint 
standing committee of the general assembly having 
cognizance of matters relating to education shall 
convene the first meeting by August 30, 1991. 

(c) On or before January 15, 1992, the task 
force shall report, in accordance with the 
provisions of section ll-4a of the general 
Statutes, its findings and recommendations to the 
State board of education and the joint standing 
committee of the general assembly having 
cognizance of matters relating to education. 

Sec. 3. This act shall take effect from its 
passage. 


Committee Vote: Yea 27 Nay 0 


