AFIT/GIR/LAR/93D-10 


/\Df\  J?'?5 

BUSINESS  PROCESS  IMPROVEMENT  APPLIED 
TO  WRITTEN  TEMPOR2VRY  DUTY  TRAVEL  ORDERS 
WITHIN  THE  UNITED  STATES  AIR  FORCE 

THESIS 


Presented  to  *the  Faculty  of  the  School  of  Logistics  and 
Acquisition  Management  of  the 
Air  Force  Institute  of  Technology 
Air  University 

in  Partial  Fulfillment  of  the 
Requirements  for  the  Degree  of 
Master  of  Science  in  ^formation  Resources  Management 


Philip  W.  McDowell,  M.S. 
Major,  USAF 


David  W.  Morgan,  B.A. 
Captain,  USAF 


December  1993 


Approved  for  public  release;  distribution  unlimited 


APIT/GLM/LAL/ 9 3S- 1 


BENCHMARKING  PRACTICES  OF 
AIR  CARGO  CARRIERS: 

A  CASE  STUDY  APPROACH 

THESIS 

Mila  D.  Abalateo,  Captain,  USAF 
Joni  R.  Lee,  Captain,  USAF 

AFIT/GLM/LAL/93S-1 


Approved  for  public  release;  distribution  unlimited 


9?^  1 2  210^^ 


The  views  expressed  in  this  thesis  are  those  of  the  authors 
and  do  not  reflect  the  official  policy  or  position  of  the 
Department  of  Defense  or  the  U.S.  Government. 


I  jfjlC  QUALITY  EJOPECTEID  3 


Aooession  For 

NTi:  :7.ui 

DTI-:  T,\-i 

□ 

J’j  ■-  ii  1  ool-  ion _ 

□ 

By_ 


rijJtributlcn/ 

Av'f’llnfclllty 


)let 


Acknowledgements 


We  would  like  to  thank  our  advisors.  Major  Judy  A.  Ford 
and  Professor  Terence  H.  Berle,  for  their  enthusiasm, 
guidance,  and  support  during  this  research  effort.  Also, 
special  thanks  to  Lieutenant  Colonel  Robert  R.  Edwards  of 
the  DOD  Air  Carrier  Survey  and  Analysis  Office  at  HQ  ANC. 

His  efforts  in  helping  us  contact  sponsors  and  air  cargo 
carriers  were  invaluable.  In  addition,  we  are  indebted  to 
Colonel  Michael  R.  Engel  and  Major  Mitchell  O.  Everhart  at 
HQ  AMC's  Aerial  Port  Operations  Division  for  sponsoring  our 
research  and  participating  in  our  investigative  study. 
Although  we  regret  we  cannot  mention  every  individual,  we 
are  also  grateful  to  several  people  at  UPS,  FedEx,  Emexry, 
Airborne,  DHL,  Burlington,  and  the  436th  APS  at  Dover  AFB 
for  their  cooperation  and  participation  in  our  study. 

Our  fellow  "transporters”  in  the  93-S  AFIT  program 
deserve  recognition  for  their  help  in  the  pretest  of  our 
interview  questions  and  their  continued  support  during  our 
entire  AFIT  experience.  Also,  we  owe  many  thanks  to  two 
other  AFIT  faculty  members.  Major  Robert  E.  Pappas  and 
Dr.  Craig  M.  Brandt,  who  took  time  away  from  their  busy 
schedules  to  review  and  edit  our  thesis  drafts.  Finally, 
coB^letion  of  this  thesis  would  not  have  been  possible 
without  the  love  and  support  of  our  families  and  friends.  A 
siiiq>le  "thank  you"  is  not  enough  to  express  our  gratitude. 

f  « 

Xi 


Table  of  Contents 


Page 


ik;knoiirledgenient8 .  ii 

List  of  Tables .  vi 

Abstract .  vii 

I.  Introduction  .  1 

Background . 1 

General  Issue  .  3 

Specific  Problem  .  4 

Research  Question  .  5 

Investigative  Questions  .  5 

Scope/Liinitations  of  the  Research .  6 

Definitions  of  TeriM .  6 

Significance  of  Research  .  8 

Summary .  9 

II.  Literature  Review .  10 

Overview .  10 

Benchmarking . 10 

Origin  of  Benchmarking  .  11 

Benchmarking  Process  .  12 

Types  of  Benchmarking .  14 

Drawbacks  .  . .  16 

Why  Benchmark? .  17 

Applications  of  Benchmarking  in  the 

Air  Force .  19 

Benchmarking  Summary  .  20 

Air  Cargo  Industry . 21 

Competitive  Forces  .  22 

Industry  Summary .  24 

Industry  Leaders  .  25 

Surge  Planning .  27 

Summary .  29 

Conclusion .  30 

III.  Methodology .  31 

Overview .  31 

Research  Design . 31 

Validity  and  Reliability  .  32 

Data  Collection .  33 

Purposeful  Sampling — Selection  of 
Air  Cargo  Carriers  . 


33 


Page 


Investigative  Study  .  34 

Pilot  Study . 35 

Pretest  of  Interview  Questions  ....  36 

Observation .  37 

Interview  Process  .  38 

Findings  and  Analysis  . .  41 

Sumnary .  42 

IV.  Findings  and  Analysis .  44 

Overview .  44 

Investigative  Question  One  .  45 

Overview  of  Industry  Leaders  .  46 

Air  Force  Air  Terminals .  48 

Investigative  Question  Two  .  49 

Investigative  Question  Three  .  49 

Investigative  Question  Four  .  51 

Investigative  Question  Five  .  55 

Investigative  Question  Six  .  59 

Summary .  62 

V.  Conclusions  and  Recommendations  .  66 

Overview .  66 

Limitations .  66 

Conclusions .  67 

Recommendations  . .  69 

Recommendations  for  Implementation  .  .  69 

Recommendations  for  Future  Research  .  .  71 

Summary  . .  72 

J^pendix  A:  Investigative  Study  Questions  for  the 

Air  Force .  73 

Appendix  B:  Pilot  Study  Questions  for  the  Air 

Cargo  Industry .  74 

i^pendix  C:  Interview  Questions .  75 

Appendix  D:  United  Parcel  Service  .  .  76 

Observation .  76 

Interview .  82 

Appendix  E:  Federal  Express  .  93 

Observation .  93 

Interview .  101 


iv 


Page 

Appendix  F:  Emery  Air  Freight .  108 

Observation .  108 

Interview .  116 

Appendix  G:  Airborne  Freight  . .  123 

Observation .  123 

Interview .  129 

Appendix  H:  DHL  Airways .  136 

Observation .  136 

Interview .  142 

Appendix  I:  Burlington  Air  Express  .  149 

Observation .  149 

Interview .  155 

i^pendix  J:  Dover  Air  Force  Base .  161 

Observation .  161 

Interview .  172 

Bibliography  .  188 

Vita .  195 


V 


Table  Page 

1.  Types  of  Benchmarking . 14 

2.  Dun’s  Business  Rankings  of  Air  Cargo  Carriers 

for  1992  26 

3.  Ward's  Business  Directory  Rankings  of  Air  Cargo 

Carriers  for  1992  .  26 

4.  Million  Dollar  Directory's  Rankings  of  Air 

Cargo  Carriers  for  1992  .  26 

5.  Observation  and  Interview  Appendices . 44 

6.  Industry  Leaders  . . 45 

7.  Investigative  Question  2  —  Can  the  Air  Cargo 

Industry  Leaders  be  Categorized  by  the  Type  of 
Cargo  Handled? . 50 

8.  Investigative  Question  3  —  What  can  the  Air 

Force  Learn  from  Observing  Day-to-Day  Operations 

of  Air  Cargo  Industry  Leaders?  .  52 

9.  Investigative  Question  4  What  are  the 

Differences  Between  How  the  Air  Force  and  Air 
Cargo  Industry  Leaders  Flan  for  Surge  Periods  of 
Increased  Workload?  .  54 


10.  Investigative  Question  5  —  What  are  the 

Differences  Between  How  the  Air  Force  and  Air 
Cargo  Industzy  Leaders'  Cargo  Handling  Equipment 
Requirements  Change  to  Accommodate  Increased 
Workloads? . 57 

11.  Investigative  Question  5  —  What  are  the 

Differences  Between  How  the  Air  Force  and  Air 
Cargo  Industry  Leaders'  Personnel  Requirements 
Chetnge  to  Accommodate  Increased  Workloads?  ...  58 

12.  Investigative  Question  6  —  What  are  the 
Differences  Between  How  the  Air  Force  and  Air 
Cargo  Industry  Leaders  Measure  the  Effectiveness 


of  Their  Air  Cargo  Handling  Operations?  .  61 

13.  Summary  of  Findings  . . 63 


vi 


r 


i 

1 

AFIT/GLM/LAL/ 9 3S- 1 

Abstract 

•  This  research  effort  used  the  benchmarking  process  and 
a  case  study  methodology  to  determine  what  the  Air  Force  can 
learn  from  commercial  air  cargo  carriers.  A  literature 
search  showed  that  the  U.S.  air  cargo  industry  leaders  are 
United  Parcel  Service,  Federal  Express,  Emery  Air  Freight, 
Airborne  Freight,  DHL  Airways,  and  Burlington  Air  Express. 

In  addition,  the  436th  Aerial  Port  Squadron  at  Dover  AFB, 
Delaware  was  chosen  as  the  Air  Force  representative  in  the 
benchmarking  study. 

Observations  of  air  cargo  operations  and  interviews 
with  operational  managers  or  applicable  experts  familiar 
with  air  cargo  operations  were  conducted  at  each  carrier's 
hub  and  at  Dover  AFB.  Obsexrvations  identified  that  the  Air 
Force  can  learn  from  the  commercial  air  cargo  carriers  in 
four  areas:  cargo  handling  equipment,  intransit  visibility, 
operations  interface,  and  safety.  Observations  and 
responses  to  interviews  revealed  disparities  between  the 
mission  of  the  Air  Force  and  the  goals  of  the  industry 
leaders.  Therefore,  a  majority  of  the  industry  leaders' 

•  practices  during  surge  periods  cannot  effectively  be  applied 
to  the  Air  Force. 


vii 


BENCHMARKING  PRACTICES  OF  AIR  CARGO  CARRIERS: 


A  CASE  STUDY  APPROACH 


i.  Introduction 


Background 

Changes  in  the  past  four  years  have  turned  our  national 
focus  from  one  of  a  global  threat  and  a  containment  strategy 
to  one  of  regional  challenges  and  a  new  Regional  Defense 
Strategy  (19:1).  However,  the  end  of  the  Cold  War  and  the 
break  up  of  the  Soviet  Union  have  not  eliminated  the  need 
for  trained  and  ready  Armed  Forces.  In  fact,  our  Armed 
Forces  have  been  busier  than  ever  in  this  rapidly  changing 
world  (71:v). 

. . .  American  troops  have  been  committed  in  over  two 
dozen  crises,  ranging  from  armed  conflict  in  Panama  and 
the  Persian  Gulf  to  peacekeeping  and  humanitarian 
assistance  missions  in  several  parts  of  the  world,  and 
to  disaster  relief  operations  at  home  and  abroad. 

(19:v) 

Because  of  the  ongoing  defense  needs  and  the  change  in 
national  defense  strategy,  the  Department  of  Defense  is 
undergoing  many  changes. 

The  change  from  a  global  to  a  regional  strategy, 
confounded  by  smaller  budgets  for  Defense,  has  led  to  a 
reduced  number  of  forces  and  an  increased  reliance  on 
strategic  mobility.  Troop  drawdowns  and  base  closures  are 
already  a  reality.  General  Colin  L.  Powell,  Chairman  of  the 


1 


Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff,  has  proposed  a  "Base  Force"  below 

which  the  Armed  Forces  cannot  go. 

This  Base  Force  must  be  prepared  to  meet  demands 
throughout  a  spectrum  of  environments  from  peace 
through  the  occurrence  of  multiple  regional  crises. 
(72:17) 

An  in^ortant  part  of  the  Base  Force  is  the  edsility  to 
reconstitute  forces  such  as  reserve  units  and  to  call  on  the 
industrial  base. 

Similar  to  the  Base  Force  is  an  idea  dubbed  "Option  C". 
Option  C  is  actually  one  option  listed  in,  "An  Approach  to 
Sizing  American  Conventional  Forces  For  the  Post-Soviet 
Era,"  a  white  paper  written  by  Les  Aspin  and  released  in 
February  1992  while  he  was  serving  as  Chairman  of  the  House 
Armed  Services  Committee  (48:42).  Option  C  assumes  a 
strategy  that  could  respond  to  a  major  regional  conflict 
such  as  Operation  DESERT  STORM,  another  Operation  DESERT 
STORM  equivalent ' s  worth  of  strike  air  power  for  a  second 
contingency  such  as  Korea,  and  an  extra  aircraft  carrier  and 
enough  forces  to  respond  to  a  small  regional  conflict  the 
size  of  Operation  JUST  CAUSE  in  Faneuna  (48:44). 

While  Aspin 's  Option  C  calls  for  a  military  force 
considersUaly  smaller  than  Powell's  "Base  Force",  both  are 
consistent  with  a  multi-region  defense  strategy  with  smaller 
numbers  of  forces.  "Our  new  regional  focus,  combined  with 
major  reductions  in  overseas  troop  levels,  puts  enormous 
emphasis  on  strategic  mobility”  (71:vii). 


2 


A  major  part  of  strategic  mobility  is  military  airlift. 
The  closure  of  Air  Force  bases  means  there  are  fewer  aerial 
ports  of  embarkation  (APOEs).  Of  course,  these  base 
closures  were  made  as  a  result  of  our  new  regional  strategy 
and  as  a  way  to  be  more  efficient  in  peacetime.  In  fact, 
General  Powell  notes  that 

Many  steps  have  been  taken — some  with  little  public 
notice->-to  respond  to  the  rapidly  changing  world  and  to 
in^rove  both  effectiveness  and  efficiency.  (71:vi) 

To  continue  our  peacetime  and  wartime  efficiency  and 

effectiveness  in  a  changing  world  of  smaller  budgets  and 

fewer  troops,  it  is  important  to  find  ways  to  continually 

in^rove.  Continuous  improvement  efforts  may  come  from 

internal  sources,  such  as  the  Air  Force  learning  from  the 

Army,  or  from  external  sources.  Since  strategic  airlift  is 

critical  during  a  contingency,  we  may  be  able  to  improve  our 

handling  of  airlift  cargo  by  studying  what  commercial  air 

cargo  con^anies  do  during  their  peak  workloads  (e.g. 

Christmas ) . 

General  Issue 

During  Operation  DESERT  SHIELD/STORN,  it  bec£une  evident 
that  the  amount  of  cargo  airlifted  exceeded  the  Air  Force's 
capability  to  move  the  cargo  to  support  the  war  effort. 
Today,  though  we  are  operating  in  a  peacetime  environment, 
the  news  headlines  feature  reports  on  humanitarian  cargo 
airlifted  to  the  former  Yugoslavia  and  Somalia,  emphasizing 
the  importance  of  airlifting  cargo  in  a  peacetime 


3 


environment.  In  today's  Air  Force,  small  budgets, 

reductions  in  personnel,  and  the  quest  for  efficiency  have 

fostered  an  attitude  of  having  to  "do  more  with  less . "  An 

i]q>rovement  in  air  cargo  handling  operations  would  help  to 

move  cargo  by  air  more  efficiently  and  effectively. 

This  thesis  focuses  on  how  the  Air  Force  can  be  more 

efficient  in  its  cargo  handling  operations  by  identifying 

and  Benchmarking  the  air  cargo  industry's  best  practices. 

Benchmarking  is  the  continuous  process  of  measuring 
products,  services,  and  practices  against  the  toughest 
competitors  or  those  coi^tanies  recognized  as  industry 
leaders.  (14:10) 

Why  benchmark? 

The  essence  of  continuous  improvement  is  constantly 
searching  for  ways  to  better  your  products, 
services,  and  processes.  What  better  way  for  companies 
to  improve  than  by  sharing  improvement  information? 
(42:20) 

Specific  Problem 

The  purpose  of  this  study  is  to  identify  ways  the  Air 
Force  can  improve  its  ability  to  balance  the  efficiency  and 
effectiveness  of  air  cargo  operations  during  peacetime  and 
wartime.  This  is  accomplished  by  employing  a  case  study 
methodology  to  benchmark  the  best  practices  of  U.S.  air 
c2u:go  industry  leaders  during  surges  in  workload  to 
determine  if  these  practices  can  be  applied  to  the  Air 
Force's  air  cargo  operations  during  contingencies  and 
exercises.  Surge  planning  and  cargo  handling  operations  are 
the  main  focus. 


4 


il«s«arch  Quastlon 

What  can  the  Air  Force  learn  from  air  cargo  industry 
leaders  to  improve  the  peacetime  and  wartime  efficiency  and 
effectiveness  of  moving  cargo  through  air  freight  terminals? 

Invaatlgative  Questions 

This  research  uses  the  benchmarking  process  to  answer 
these  investigative  questions: 

1.  Who  are  the  U.S,  air  cargo  industry  leaders? 

2.  Can  the  air  cargo  industry  leaders  be  categorized 
by  the  type  of  cargo  handled? 

3.  What  can  the  Air  Force  learn  from  observing  day-to~ 
day  operations  of  air  cargo  industry  leaders? 

4.  What  are  the  differences  between  how  the  Air  Force 
and  air  cargo  industry  leaders  plan  for  surge 
periods  of  increased  workload  (e.g.,  contingencies, 
Christmas) ? 

5.  What  are  the  differences  between  how  the  Air  Force 
and  air  cargo  industry  leaders'  cargo  handling 
equipment  and  personnel  requirements  change  to 
accommodate  increased  workloads? 

6.  What  are  the  differences  between  how  the  Air  Force 
and  air  cargo  industry  leaders  measure  the 
effectiveness  of  their  air  cargo  handling 
operations? 


5 


8oop«/XJLal  tat  Iona  of  tha  Raaaarch 

This  research  assumes  there  is  a  difference  between  how 
the  Air  Force  and  air  cargo  industry  leaders  plan  and 
operate  during  surges  in  workload.  Only  air  cargo  carriers/ 
not  airlines  that  move  both  passengers  and  freight,  are 
examined.  Also,  this  study  does  not  cover  unit  deployments 
nor  the  movement  of  hazardous  cargo. 

Only  the  cargo  handling  process  within  the  terminal  is 
studied.  This  research  does  not  include  the  movement  of 
cargo  before  its  arrival  at  the  air  terminal  or  after  it 
leaves  the  air  cargo  terminal. 

There  is  not  one  air  cargo  carrier  that  is  definitively 
identified  as  an  industry  leader;  therefore,  benchmarking 
from  the  one  beat  is  not  possible.  However,  the  techniques 
of  the  benchmarking  process,  to  include  gap  analysis,  are 
used  in  this  research. 

A  case  study  approach  is  part  of  the  research 
methodology;  however,  coo^lete,  in-depth  case  studies  are 
not  accon^lished  due  to  the  number  of  companies  studied. 

Only  specific  areas  of  each  company  are  analyzed  instead  of 
the  total  coiiq)any  analyses  typically  used  in  case  studies. 

Definitions  of  Terms 

The  following  definitions  are  used  throughout  this  thesis: 
Benchmarking .  as  used  in  this  thesis,  is  defined  as  a 
process  that  measures  and  compares  the  Air  Force's  air 
cargo  operations  against  top  performers  within  the 


6 


civilian  air  cargo  industry  and  then  searches  for 
industry  best  practices  that  lead  to  superior 
performance . 

A  contingency  plan  is  "a  plan  for  major  contingencies 
which  can  reasonably  be  anticipated  in  the  principal 
geographic  subareas  of  the  command”  (24:86). 

Effective  means  "producing  a  decided,  decisive,  or 
desired  effect;  producing  or  capable  of  producing  a 
result”  (89:359). 

Efficiency  means  "effective  operation  as  measured  by  a 
comparison  of  production  with  cost  (as  in  energy,  time. 


and  money ) ”  (89:359). 

An  exercise  is  "a  odlitary  maneuver  or  simulated 
wartime  operation  involving  planning,  prepeuration,  and 
execution.  It  is  carried  out  for  the  purpose  of 
training  and  evaluation.  It  may  be  a  combined,  joint, 
or  single  service  exercise,  depending  on  participating 
organizations"  ( 24 : 137 ) . 

A  gap,  as  used  in  this  thesis,  is  defined  as 
"differences  in  practices,  especially  when  external 
operations  are  better”  ( 14 : 122 ) . 

Intranait  visibility,  as  used  in  this  thesis,  is 
defined  as  the  ability  to  continuously  track  the 
whereabouts  of  any  cargo  in  a  carrier's  (or  the  Air 
Force ' s )  possession. 

Mobility  is  "a  quality  or  capability  of  military  forces 
which  permits  them  to  move  from  place  to  place  while 


retaining  the  ability  to  fulfill  their  primary  mission” 
(24(238) . 

Organizational  Culture  is  ”the  pervasive  system  of 
values,  beliefs,  and  norms  that  exist  in  any 
organization”  ( 38 : 744 ) . 

RBaional  Hubs  are  airports  that  serve  as  the  focal 
points  for  the  origin  and  terziination  of  long-distance 
flights  in  a  particular  area  of  the  country.  Flights 
from  outlying  areas  are  fed  into  the  regional  hub 
airports  for  connecting  flights  to  the  carrier's  hub 
(22(516) . 

Surge  means  ”to  rise  suddenly  to  an  excessive  or 
abnormal  value”  (89(1164).  In  the  context  of  this 
thesis,  a  surge  means  an  increase  in  worlcload  beyond 
what  is  normally  experienced  on  a  daily  basis. 

Significance  of  Research 

Any  air  cargo  industry  practices  that  surface  in  this 
research  effort  have  the  potential  to  be  applied  to  the  Air 
Force.  Observations  of  the  day-to-day  operations  of  the  air 
cargo  industry,  aloaq  with  industry  practices  in  surge 
planning  and/or  cargo  handling  during  periods  of  increased 
workload,  may  provide  an  avenue  to  in^rove  the  Air  Force's 
efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  air  cargo  operations  during 
peacetime  and  wartime. 


r 


This  chapter  provides  an  overview  of  proposed  research 
into  how  the  Air  Force  can  io^rove  its  efficiency  and 
effectiveness  in  air  cargo  operations  by  using  benchmarking 
as  a  tool  in  a  case  study  approach.  To  set  the  foundation 
for  the  remainder  of  the  thesis.  Chapter  II  presents  a 
review  of  recent  literature  on  benchmarking  concepts  and 
their  varied  applications  in  business  and  the  Air  Force*  A 
brief  history  of  the  air  cargo  industry  is  given  along  with 
an  examination  of  statistics  that  rank  the  air  cargo 
carriers.  Surge  planning  in  the  Air  Force  is  also  ex2uiiined. 
Chapter  III  covers  the  case  study  methodology  used  in 
observing  and  interviewing  industry  leaders  and  Air  Force 
air  cargo  specialists.  Chapter  IV  presents  the  findings  and 
analysis  of  the  investigative  questions,  the  observations, 
and  the  interviews.  Chapter  V  provides  limitations  of  the 
study,  conclusions,  and  recommendations. 


9 


u.  Literature  Revigy 


Orerrlew 

To  determine  how  the  Air  Force  can  improve  its  movement 
of  cargo  on  military  aircraft  by  benchiiMrking  the  industry '  s 
best  practices f  a  thorough  review  of  current  literature  was 
conducted.  This  literature  review  defines  benchmarking  and 
the  benchmarking  process,  provides  a  history  of  the  air 
cargo  industry,  gives  rankings  of  the  air  cargo  carriers, 
and  describes  surge  planning  in  the  Air  Force. 

Beaohmaricing 

In  today's  competitive,  global  economy  many  business 
organizations  are  striving  to  be  the  best  in  their 
industries.  The  process  known  as  ” benchmarking”  is  growing 
in  popularity  as  a  method  of  iiq>roving  many  aspects  of  an 
organization. 

Webster's  dictionary  defines  benchmark  as  ”a  point  of 

reference  from  which  measur«sents  may  be  made;  something 

that  serves  as  a  standard  by  which  others  may  be  measured" 

(89:102).  The  term  benchmarking  has  its  origin  in  the  land 

surveying  practice  of  con^aring  elevations  (86:8).  As 

applied  in  today's  business  world. 

Benchmarking  is  the  formal  process  of  measuring  and 
coa^ring  a  company's  operations,  products,  and 
services  against  those  of  top  performers  both  within 
and  outside  that  company's  primary  industry.  (3:52) 


10 


Benchmarking  has  significant  applications  to  the  Air  Force 
because  it  builds  upon  the  idea  that  cross*-industry 
cMuparisons  are  successful  even  if  there  are  no  similarities 
between  two  industries  (18:93). 

This  section  discusses  the  origin  and  process  of 
benchmarking  as  it  is  used  today.  Also,  a  comparison  of 
different  types  of  benchmarking  and  some  drawbacks  of  using 
benchmarking  are  discussed.  The  section  titled  "Why 
Benchmeurk?"  examines  the  benefits  associated  with  a 
benchmarking  process.  Finally,  applications  of  benchauirking 
in  the  Air  Force  are  discussed. 

Origin  of  Benchmrking.  The  benchmarking  process 
applied  in  modern  businesses  originated  in  1979  as  a  result 
of  Xerox  Corporation's  struggle  to  compete  against  low- 
priced  Japanese  copiers  (14:6;  86:8).  The  most  documented 
and  perhaps  most  successful  benchmarking  project  was  Xerox's 
study  of  the  L.L.  Bean  Coa^any.  Xerox  saw  a  need  to  improve 
its  logistics  and  distribution  systems,  and  L.L.  Bean  was 
seen  as  the  industry  leader  in  warehousing  and  distribution. 
In  the  early  1980s  Xerox  benchmarked  L.L.  Bean's 
distribution  system.  This  helped  Xerox's  own  distribution 
system  for  its  copiers  and  allowed  Xerox  to  be  con^etitive 
in  the  copier  market. 

Since  its  first  benchmarking  experience.  Xerox  has 
continually  improved  its  benchmarking  process. 

"Benchmarking  has  evolved  into  a  mentality  that  stretches 
across  the  whole  company  rather  than  being  just  a  formal 


11 


procedure  that  takes  place  in  only  a  few  areas”  (3:55).  To 
be  successful  at  benchnarking,  only  certain  aspects  of  an 
industry  leader  need  to  be  benchmarked.  (Xerox  used  only 
L.L.  Bean's  distribution  system  in  their  benchmarking 
project).  Of  course,  Xerox  is  not  the  only  corporation  that 
benchmarks . 

In  fact,  in  a  survey  Distribution  recently  conducted 
among  Fortune  lOOO  companies,  65  percent  of  the 
respondents  said  their  firow  used  benchmarking  as  a 
management  tool.  (36:31) 

Since  so  many  coiiQ>anies  use  benchmarking  as  a  method  of 
improving  themselves,  an  understanding  of  the  benchmarking 
process  is  necessary. 

Benchmarking  Process.  Most  coiq>anies  have  adopted 
benchsiarking  programs  that  are  derived  from  Xerox's  original 
benchmarking  process  developed  by  Robert  Cao^.  His  process 
has  five  phases.  The  process  starts  with  a  planning  phase 
and  proceeds  through  analysis,  integration,  action,  and 
maturity  (14:16). 

The  objectives  of  the  planning  phase  are  to  determine 
what  is  to  be  benchmarked,  to  whom  or  what  it  will  be 
coii^>ared,  and  how  the  data  will  be  collected.  After 
determining  what,  how,  and  who  to  benchmark,  analysis  and 
data  gathering  must  be  accomplished.  During  the  analysis 
phase,  a  comparison  of  the  cos^any's  internal  practices  and 
the  benchmarking  partner's  practices  help  determine  the 
current  performance  gap. 


12 


There  are  three  types  of  performance  gaps:  positive, 
negative,  and  operations  at  parity.  "What  is  desired  in  the 
gap's  analysis  is  an  objective  assessment  of  their  magnitude 
•  as  well  as  an  explanation  of  why  the  gap  exists”  (14:122). 

A  positive  gap  exists  when  internal  practices  are  superior. 
In  this  thesis,  a  positive  gap  means  that  the  Air  Force's 
practices  are  best.  A  negative  gap  exists  when  external 
practices  are  superior.  This  means  that  one  of  the  air 
cargo  industry  leaders'  practices  are  best.  Operations  at 
parity  mean  that  there  are  no  significant  differences.  In 
this  thesis,  parity  exists  if  both  the  Air  Force  and 
industry  leaders  have  similar  operations  performed  with 
similar  outcomes.  After  the  type  of  gap  is  identified, 
future  performance  levels  are  projected. 

In  th4  integration  phase  of  the  process,  the  results  of 
the  planning  and  analysis  phases  are  communicated  to 
everyone  in  the  organization,  and  functional  goals  are 
esteJslished.  This  is  done  to  obtain  support  and  commitment 
from  all  levels  in  the  organization. 

Benchmarking  findings  and  goals  are  then  converted  to 
action  plans.  Then,  these  plans  are  implemented  and  their 
progress  monitored.  When  the  best  industry  practices  are 
.  incorporated  into  all  business  practices,  maturity  will  be 

reached  ( 14 : 16-19 ) . 

General  Electric,  IBM,  Alcoa,  and  Motorola  all  use 
similar  processes  in  their  benchmarking  programs  (7;  8;  26; 


13 


33;  36).  An  article  by  David  Albany  summarizes  the 

benchmarking  process  quite  well.  He  states: 

The  process  itself  is  so  straightforward  and  si]iq>le. 

A  senior  manager  typically  will  steurt  by  deciding  what 
part  of  the  company  to  benchmark.  The  manager  then 
instructs  specialists  in  that  area  to  determine  what 
company  is  the  very  best  at  that  function  and  to  start 
collecting  data  to  exchange  with  that  company.  After 
analyzing  the  data,  a  strategic  plan  is  developed  to 
incorporate  the  moat  effective  approaches  used  by  the 
benchmarked  con^any.  (3:53) 

After  understanding  the  process,  it  is  ioqportant  to  note 
that  the  process  can  be  applied  to  different  types  of 
benchmarking . 

Types  of  Benchmarking.  The  current  literature  focuses 
on  six  types  of  benchmarking.  These  are  strategic, 
operational,  internal,  generic,  competitive,  and  functional. 
These  are  categorized  into  two  groups:  broad  and  specific, 
as  shown  in  Table  1. 

TABLE  1:  TZPB8  OF  BEBCHNARKIHG 


Broad 

-  Stratsqlc 

-  Operational 

Speeiflo 
«  Internal 
>':QenerlO:"^' 

>  competitive 
Functional 

Working-task 

-  Function-wide 

-  HanagesMnt-procesB 

-  TOtal-operation 


Broad.  D.R.  Hull,  manager  in  charge  of 
benchmarking  for  AT&T,  divides  benchmarking  into  strategic 


14 


and  operational  benchmarking ,  with  strategic  being  the  most 

important  to  him.  Hull  says: 

Benchmarking,  especially  at  the  strategic  level,  must 
be  highly  structured,  with  both  parties  knowing  well  in 
advance  what  the  questions  and  objectives  are.  Then, 
coBq)anies  can  find  the  answers  to  these  questions  by 
asXdng  their  counterparts  at  leading  edge  coiiq>anies  why 
they  succeeded .  (36:32) 

While  strategic  benchmarking  deals  with  long  term 

goals,  operational  benchmarking  deals  with  the  near  term. 

Examples  of  operational  level  benchmarking  are  warehousing, 

inventory  control,  and  customer  service.  These  operational 

levels  use  specific  types  of  benchmarking. 

Specific.  Perhaps  the  simplest  type  of  benchmarking 

takes  place  in  large  multi-division  organizations  that  have 

similar  functions  at  different  locations.  This  "internal" 

benchmarking  is  often  the  first  type  of  benchmarking  tried 

by  an  organization  (14:61-62;  42:22). 

Generic  benchmarking  holds  the  potential  of  revealing 

the  best  of  the  best  practices.  This  type  of  benchmarking 

is  sinqply  the  benchmarking  of  a  process  or  a  function, 

regardless  of  dissimilarities  of  industries  (14:65). 

Competitive  benchmarking  is  used  to  compare  two 

companies  in  the  same  industry. 

While  obtaining  information  may  be  difficult,  it  should 
still  be  pursued  because  the  other  parties  also  are 
interested  in  understanding  best  practices  that  make 
their  operations  successful  or  could  further  improve 
them.  (14:63) 

Camp  asserts. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  concentrate  solely  on  direct 
product  competitors.  There  is  great  potential  for 


15 


identifying  functional  competitors  or  industry  leader 
firms  to  benchmark  even  if  in  dissimilar  industries. 
(14:63) 

This  "functional”  benchmarking  is  the  type  used  most  often. 

AT&T's  Hull  divides  functional  benchmarking  into  four 
levels  (36:34).  Working-task  is  the  lowest  level  and  covers 
single  activities.  The  next  level  is  function-wide,  and  it 
looks  at  all  tasks  within  a  specific  function.  The  third 
level  is  management-process  benchmarking  which  looks  at 
broad  issues  such  as  quality,  employee  motivation,  and 
reward  systems.  The  highest  level  is  total-operation 
benchmarking  which  covers  the  entire  operation. 

Both  the  broad  and  specific  groups  of  benchmarking  are 
used  by  many  companies  striving  for  improvement.  Although 
it  appears  that  benchmarking  is  a  process  that  is  good  for 
any  organization,  there  are  drawbacks  associated  with 
benchmarking . 

Drawbacks.  The  benchmarking  process  itself  has  two 
drawbacks  associated  with  it.  The  first  problem  encountered 
in  many  benchmarking  studies  is  getting  the  best  companies 
to  exchange  information  (3:56).  The  other  drawback  is 
benchmarking's  lack  of  predictive  power.  "At  its  worst, 
benchmarking  is  only  a  snapshot;  at  its  best,  it  can  provide 
clues  to  next-generation  know-how"  (33:72). 

There  are  other  drawbacks  to  benchmarking,  but  these 
drawbacks  are  not  with  the  process  itself  but  are  caused  by 
organizations  trying  to  jump  into  benchmarking  too  quickly. 
Xerox's  Robert  Camp  says  the  biggest  failure  he  sees  in 


16 


benchmarking  is  the  lack  of  preparation  and  understanding  of 
an  organization's  own  processes  before  visiting  another 
organization  (36:36).  Another  barrier  is  instilling  a 
culture  change,  but  this  can  be  overcome  with  education  and 
training  and  by  reinforcing  the  fact  that  new  practices  were 
successful  at  other  companies  (7:64). 

While  there  are  drawbacks  associated  with  the 
benchmarking  process,  the  dra%#backs  caused  by  the 
organizations  can  be  overcome.  Thir  makes  the  drawbacks 
seem  minimal  when  compared  to  all  of  the  benefits  of 
benchmarking.  The  next  section  will  give  some  reasons  why 
con^anies  use  benchmarking  as  their  tool  for  improvement. 

Why  Benchmark? 

The  essence  of  continuous  improvement  is  constantly 
searching  for  ways  to  better  your  products,  services, 
and  processes.  What  better  way  for  companies  to 
improve  than  by  sharing  improvement  information? 

(42:20) 

Current  literature  provides  many  lists  of  benchmarking’s 
benefits. 

Jerry  Balm,  senior  quality  consultant  with  IBM 

Rochester  sees  two  reasons  why  any  organization  that  is 

trying  to  improve  itself  should  benchmark: 

One  is  to  help  set  goals  toward  becoming  best  at  what 
you  do,  at  all  things  that  you  do.  Without 
benchmarking  you  don't  know  what  that  is.  Secondly, 
you  augment  the  good  ideas  that  normally  roll  in  from 
your  own  employees,  with  some  creative  and  innovative 
ideas  from  other  world-class  companies,  to  get  the 
best-of-the-best  efficient  and  effective  ways  to  make 
yourself  best  as  well.  (42:20-21) 


17 


Some  of  the  benefits  identified  by  Xerox  include  the 
following: 

o  Benchmarking  ensures  that  best  practices  will  be 
identified  and  improven^nt  targets  set. 

o  Benchmarking  helps  overcome  disbelief  about 

practices  and  convinces  companies  they  can  i]q>rove 
on  them. 

o  Benchmarking  counters  reluctance  to  try  something 
different. 

o  Benchmarking  helps  identify  new  technologies  that  may 
be  used  in  other  industries. 

o  Benchmarking  helps  redirect  con^anies  from  those 
having  only  an  internal  focus  to  ones  that  look 
outward  toward  the  market  place.  (85:23) 

Camp  believes  the  basic  benefits  are  derived  from 

meeting  customer  requirements,  becoming  competitive, 

measuring  true  productivity,  est2d>lishing  goals,  and 

ensuring  the  best  industry  practices  are  included  in  work 

processes  (14:28).  Customer  requirements,  becoming 

coiiq)etitive,  and  measuring  productivity  are  important 

aspects  of  benchmarking.  Camp  states: 

Understanding  the  work  process  outputs  and  benchmarking 
them  against  the  best  in  the  industry  reveals  true 
customer  requirements.  The  best  practices  would  not 
exist  if  they  were  not  preferred  by  consumers. 
Benchmarking  seeks  to  satisfy  customer  requirements  in 
order  to  remain  competitive.  (14:31) 

Becoming  and  remaining  competitive  can  be  achieved  by 

benchmarking . 

The  constant  external  focus  and  testing  of  ideas, 
methods,  practices,  and  their  incorporation  in  plans 
and  programs  for  their  delivery  is  the  single  approach 
for  ensuring  long-term  competitiveness.  (14:33) 


18 


The  benchmarking  process  challenges  the  current  way  of  doing 
business  by  bringing  in  these  new  ideas  and  practices  from 
outside  the  organization. 

Casp  proposes  that  if  everyone  is  involved  in  the 
benchmarking  process,  true  productivity  will  be  the  result 
because  everyone  will  have  an  appreciation  of  what  the 
organization  does  well  and  an  understanding  of  how  other 
organizations  do  some  things  better  (14:32).  The  teamwork 
concept  helps  the  organization  to  become  and  remain 
coB^titive  by  concentrating  on  in^roving  productivity. 

Applications  of  Benchmarking  In  the  Air  Force.  With 
inqarovement  in  mind,  benchmarking  is  applicable  to  the  Air 
Force.  Like  a  profit-oriented  business,  the  Air  Force  is 
faced  with  several  challenges  to  improve  its  operation.  The 
current  recession  within  the  United  States,  along  with  the 
tremendous  budget  deficit,  has  led  to  reductions  in  military 
funding  and  increased  emphasis  on  improving  the  economy. 

The  Air  Force  has  implemented  Total  Quality  Management  in  an 
effort  to  improve  its  overall  processes  for  doing  business. 
As  the  Air  Force  draws  down  to  become  30  percent  smaller, 
there  is  no  choice  but  to  work  smarter  and  become  more 
efficient  since  the  global  requirements  have  not  changed 
(6:32). 

In  1990,  the  Quality  Council  of  the  Headquarters  Air 
Force  Logistics  Command  (AFLC) — now  part  of  the  Air  Force 
Materiel  Command  (AFMC) — published  a  benchmarking  pamphlet 
(1:1).  Almost  identical  to  the  Xerox  model  of  benchmarking 


19 


(15t71),  this  panqphlet  describes  the  need  to  continually 
ia^rove  processes  within  AFLC. 

The  Air  Force  currently  uses  techniques  which  could  be 
classified  as  a  type  of  benchmarking.  Inspector 
General  (IG)  reports,  cross-tell  reports,  and  lessons 
learned  are  all  a  way  of  sharing  good  (best)  practices  among 
various  Air  Force  bases. 

Almost  any  nonprofit  organization  can  establish 
benchmarks  to  ioqirove  upon  current  practices — including  the 
Air  Force.  Inherent  in  the  benchmarking  definition  is  the 
need  to  find  the  best  industry  practices  wherever  they  exist 
and  incorporate  these  ideas  where  practical.  Granted, 
measuring  performance  is  more  difficult  for  organizations 
with  intangible  objectives  (43:19);  however,  quantifying  the 
price  of  air  defense  is  not  the  intent  of  benchmarking. 
Benchmarking  has  significant  applications  to  the  Air  Force 
because  it  builds  upon  the  idea  that  cross~industry 
con^arisons  are  successful  even  if  there  are  no  similarities 
between  two  industries  (18:93). 

Benchmarking  Summary.  The  fierce  competition  in 
today's  business  environment  makes  it  necessary  for 
organizations  to  continually  strive  for  improvement. 
Benchmarking  is  a  new  process  that  measures  and  compares  a 
company's  operations,  products,  and  services  against  top 
performers  both  within  and  outside  that  company's  primary 
industry  (3:52).  The  main  objective  of  benchmarking  is  to 


20 


continually  in^rove  a  coo^any  by  taking  the  best  practices 
of  other  coo^anies  and  applying  them  to  its  operation. 

Benchmarking  ranges  from  the  very  broad,  strategic  or 
operational  types,  to  the  more  specific  types,  and  there  are 
benefits  and  drawbacks  associated  with  all  types.  However, 
the  benefits  clearly  outweigh  the  dra%d>acks,  which  is  why 
the  majority  of  large  corporations  use  benchmarking  as  a 
management  tool  for  isprovement. 

Air  Cargo  Industry 

Since  the  first  step  of  the  benchmarking  p  seas  is 

deciding  whom  to  benchmark  from  (benchmark  partners),  an 

examination  of  the  air  cargo  industry  is  necessary  before 

determining  the  industry's  leaders.  Some  information  about 

the  air  cargo  industxry  follows. 

The  deregulation  of  the  airlines  in  1977  was  the 

turning  point  for  the  air  cargo  industry.  Deregulation  led 

to  increased  competition  throughout  the  industry  by  allowing 

free  entry  and  exit  into  the  market.  The  strongest  growth 

in  the  air  cargo  industry  took  place  in  the  1980s  with  the 

creation  of  integrated  or  express  carriers.  Express 

carriers  own  both  aircraft  and  equipment,  and  they  emerged 

to  move  high~valU'» ,  low-weight  packages  overnight  (21:37). 

In  the  early  1980s  Federal  Express  began  to  emerge  as  a 

pioneer  in  the  industry  using  its  hub  and  spoke  system. 

Its  trucks  would  pick  up  the  parcel  or  document  at  the 
shipper's  office,  transport  it  to  the  airport,  and 
place  it  on  a  Federal  aircraft.  Airplanes  from  all 
over  the  country  then  flew  to  a  hub  in  Memphis.  There 


21 


shiEURents  were  off~loaded,  sorted  onto  giant  conveyor 
belts,  and  then  placed  back  on  the  aircraft  going  to 
the  final  destination.  At  the  destination  city,  a 
Federal  van  would  deliver  the  package  to  the  consignee, 
nesting  its  pronise  to  the  shipper  to  do  the  job 
'positively,  absolutely*  overnight.  (21:38) 

Although  the  hub  system  seeios  likely  to  remain  the 
basic  key  to  air  express  operations,  growth  has 
necessitated  some  variations,  primarily  in  the  form  of 
regional  hubs .  ( 82 : A4 1 ) 

The  1980s  also  saw  an  increase  in  cospetitive  pricing. 
United  Parcel  Service,  the  largest  carrier  of  packages  in 
the  United  States  by  surface  and  air,  expanded  its. second- 
day  air  and  entered  the  next-day  delivery  market.  This 
caused  price  conpetitions,  mergers,  and  even  some 
withdrawals  from  the  industry.  This  intense  conpetition  is 
still  prevalent  today,  and  it  shows  the  inpact  of 
competitive  forces  on  the  air  cargo  industry's  markets. 

Coepetltlve  Forces.  Michael  Porter  explains  that 
intense  competition  in  an  industry  is  rooted  in  its  economic 
structure  and  goes  beyond  the  behavior  of  current 
coapetitors .  He  says  that  the  state  of  competition  in  an 
industry  depends  on  five  competitive  forces:  potential 
entrants  (threat  of  new  entrants),  buyers  (bargaining  power 
of  buyers),  substitutes  (threat  of  substitute  products  or 
services),  suppliers  (bargaining  power  of  suppliers),  and 
industry  coapetitors  (rivalry  aaiong  existing  firms) 

(70:3-4). 

The  first  competitive  force,  threat  of  new  entrants, 
was  very  strong  in  the  1980s  when  the  air  cargo  industry 
began  to  take  shape.  Now,  over  20  U.S.  companies  compete  in 


22 


th«  air  cargo  industry  (88:645).  Because  of  econosdes  of 
scale,  capital  requiresmnts ,  and  switching  costs,  the  threat 
of  BK>re  new  entrants  is  not  very  likely.  Economies  of  scale 
make  it  very  difficult  for  a  new  cos^any  to  compete  with  the 
established  ccm^nies  that  have  widespread  market  share  and 
fleets  of  aircraft  and  equipment.  The  capital  requirements 
to  start  an  air  cargo  carrier  business  are  extremely 
restrictive  for  new  companies.  The  cost  or  rental  fees  for 
aircraft,  warehouses,  conveyors,  equipment,  and  facilities 
is  extremely  high.  If  a  new  entrant  emerged  into  the  air 
cargo  carrier  industry,  it  would  have  to  either  meet  an 
underdeveloped  market  niche  or  "steal”  customers  from 
another  carrier.  The  cost  for  a  shipper  of  cargo  to  switch 
to  another  cogqpany  is  often  prohibitive  because  of  time 
spent  training  employees  on  new  systems. 

Related  to  the  problem  of  new  entrants,  is  the 
bargaining  power  of  buyers  already  in  the  market.  Buyers 
can  influence  prices  and  demand  higher  quality,  thus  forcing 
more  ccmqietition  between  carriers.  Buyers,  especially  major 
corporations,  are  an  extremely  powerful  force  in  the  air 
cargo  industry. 

The  threat  of  substitution  is  also  very  powerful  in 
this  industry.  Some  customers  see  overnight  or  express 
service  as  an  integral  part  of  the  air  cargo  industry  and 
often  the  only  distinguishing  feature  in  the  market  is 
price.  For  these  customers,  switching  costs  are  not  a 
factor.  Therefore,  since  this  industry  can  be  highly 


23 


substitutable,  price  and  performance  are  often  stressed  to 
custcmwrs  in  the  market. 

Another  competitive  force  in  this  industry  is  the 
bargaining  power  of  suppliers.  The  threat  of  raising  prices 
or  reducing  quality  of  purchased  goods  and  services  can  be  a 
powerful  force  to  air  cargo  carriers.  Again,  if  suppliers 
exert  this  type  of  influence  and  negatively  affect  the 
carrier,  the  custcxser  can  easily  substitute  another  carrier. 

Finally,  the  most  coBq)etitive  force  faced  by  the  air 
cargo  industry  is  the  rivalry  among  existing  carriers.  This 
industry  is  extremely  coaqpetitive  and  many  of  the  carriers 
c<Mipete  head-to-head  for  major  corporate  contracts.  Also, 
most  of  the  carriers  are  mutually  dependent — a  competitive 
move  by  one  is  often  countered  by  others.  While  this 
industry  is  very  coiiq>etitive,  some  of  the  carriers 
concentrate  on  specializing  on  certain  markets  while  others 
offer  specialized  services  to  help  differentiate  their 
services.  Concentration  on  niches  and  specialized  services 
are  taken  into  account  when  choosing  the  leaders  of  this 
industry. 

Industry  Sumsuiry.  This  brief  synopsis  of  the  air  cargo 
industry  gives  background  information  that  is  necessary  for 
properly,  choosing  which  carriers  are  the  best  in  this 
industry.  The  next  section  gives  some  industry  statistics 
that  are  used  to  determine  the  industry's  leaders. 


24 


Xadustry 

Th«  rankings  found  in  the  literature  on  air  cargo 
carriers  were  based  on  sales  and  nuaber  of  employees — not 
rankings  of  best  to  worse.  The  only  air  cargo  carrier 
acknowledged  as  being  superior  in  current  literature  was 
Federal  Express  as  the  1990  winner  of  the  Malcolm  Baldridge 
Award  for  Quality  in  a  service  cmpany  (13:24).  Since 
service  is  not  the  primary  focus  of  this  study,  this  award 
was  not  considered  as  a  ranking  of  Federal  Express  as  the 
industry  leader.  Therefore,  the  rankings  found  in  the 
literature  search  are  used  in  this  thesis. 

The  literature  ranked  the  U.S.  air  cargo  carriers  by 
sales  and  number  of  eo^loyees.  Three  separate  rankings  were 
found  and  all  are  included  below.  Table  2  contains  Dun's 
Buainsaa  Rankinga,  Table  3  shows  the  rankings  from  Ward's 
Businmaa  Directory,  and  Table  4  shows  rankings  found  in  the 
Million  Dollar  Directory  ~  America's  Leading  Public  and 
Private  Cou^panies  *  Series  1992  •  All  information  in  the 
tables  are  extracted  for  ease  of  comparison  and  all  rankings 
are  from  1992.  Only  the  top  five  con^nies  from  each 
ranking  are  included. 


25 


ntn.n  2i  OUI'S  BUSXnSS  1IABXIB08  OF  AIR  CAROO 
CARRIERS  FOR  1992 


1.  Fare*l  8«xvle«  1.  Dnitad  Farcwl  S*rvle« 

2.  ladMcaJL  ixpauMs  2,  radaral  Ksprass 

3»  iMHEif  Air  ncalght  3.  Alriaorn*  Fraigbt 

4*  Aiitbosn*  rraight  4.  Banty  Air  rraight 

M  Baqprasa  S.  DHL  Airways 


(27t811>812,  1063-1044,  1441) 


ZABLE  3l  HARD’S  B08IEE88  DIRECTORY  RAEKIM08 
OF  AIR  CAROO  CARRIERS  FOR  1992 


1* 

Diiltsd  Farcsl:  Ssrvlcs 

1.  Unltad  Faroal  sarwlea 

Fttdsrsl  Bxprsss 

2  *  Fadaral  Bxpraaa 

■  yi;::' 

DHL  Airways 

3.  DHL  Airways 

4^ 

lasry  Air 

4.  BAsry  Air 

5, 

Alrborna  rralght: 

5.  Alrborna  Fralght 

(88t637,  6345) 

ZABLE  4 1  NILLIOE  DOLLAR  DIRECTORY'S  RAHRIBGS 
OF  AIR  CARGO  CARRIERS  FOR  1992 


1.  unltad  Fareal  sarvlca 

1. 

Unltad  Fareal  sarvlca 

-"2:. /T  FadaralxBxprass  '  ' 

2. 

Fadaral  Bxprass 

3.  KMry  Air  Fralght 

3. 

HBsry  Air  Fralght 

4»  Alrborna  Krprasa 

4. 

Alrborna  Bsqpraas 

5*  Httrllngton  Air  Harass 

5. 

DHL  Airways 

(55i84,  632,  1367,  1488,  5177) 

Sorg*  Planning 

C<MHMrcial  air  cargo  carrier  surge  planning  was  not 
found  by  a  review  of  current  literature.  However,  since  an 
organization  snist  know  itself  before  undergoing 
benchiaarking/  a  review  of  Air  Force  airlift  surge  planning 
is  necessary.  Surge  planning  by  the  air  cargo  carriers  is 
necessary  for  comparison  during  benchmarking,  emd  this  is 
investigated  by  interviewing  carrier  representatives. 

Since  the  national  security  strategy  has  changed  to 
focus  on  regional  threats,  contingency  planning  requires 
planning  for  uncertainty.  "Our  ability  to  predict  political 
alignments  and  military  capabilities  weakens  as  we  look 
farther  into  the  future"  (1:^:5).  The  Air  Force  still  has  a 
global  requirement,  but  General  Colin  L.  Powell,  Chairman  of 
the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff,  describes  the  regional  focus  as 
follows: 

We  will  also  retain  the  potential  to  defeat  a  global 
threat,  should  one  emerge.  However,  our  plans  and 
resources  are  primarily  focused  on  deterring  and 
fighting  regional  rather  than  global  wars.  (72:11) 

Based  on  the  new  regional  defense  strategy,  contingency 

plans  for  each  region  or  theater  of  the  world  are  written 

based  on  known  and  foreseen  threats.  Two  major  areas  of  the 

new  strategy,  crisis  response  and  reconstitution,  have 

strong  ties  to  the  Air  Force's  airlift  capability. 

Regional  contingencies  are  varied,  yet  U.S.  forces  need 

to  respond  rapidly.  Air  Force  airlift  assets  are  used  to 

move  cargo  and  troops  to  the  area  of  crisis.  When  Air  Force 


27 


units  are  deployed,  personnel  surge  to  work  in  mobility  work 
centers  and  deploy  all  necessary  personnel,  equipment,  and 
aircraft.  To  accoiiq>lish  this  the  Air  Force  uses  a 
regulation,  APR  28-4,  USAF  Mobility  Planning,  to  provide 
deployment  guidance,  and  each  Air  Force  base  has  their  own 
unique  plan  based  on  their  mobilization  requirements.  For 
small  deployments,  only  organic  (Air  Force)  airlift  assets 
are  used. 

When  units  of  other  services  deploy,  both  those  service 
members  and  Air  Force  airlift  personnel  work  together  to 
move  troops  and  cargo.  This  is  conducted  under  the  guidance 
of  APR  76-6,  Movement  of  Units  in  Air  Force  Aircraft. 

Again,  if  the  deployment  is  small,  only  Air  Force  airlift 
assets  are  used. 

For  larger,  or  on-going  deployments,  the  Air  Force  may 
not  have  enough  assets  readily  available.  When  this  happens 
reconstitution  takes  place. 

Our  reconstitution  strategy  seeks  to  provide  sufficient 
capability  to  create  additional  new  forces  and 
capabilities  to  deter  and  defend  our  interests  as 
necessary,  drawing  on  'regeneration'  assets  (cadre-type 
units  and  stored  equipment),  industrial /technology  base 
assets,  and  manpower  assets.  (19:17) 

The  most  common  way  to  "reconstitute"  is  to  use  Air  Force 

Reserve  and/or  Air  National  Guard  personnel,  equipment,  and 

aircraft.  If  more  personnel  are  needed,  retired  military 

personnel  or  new  recruits  are  availed>le.  If  more  equipment, 

such  as  forklifts,  is  needed,  then  the  commercial  industrial 

base  is  called  upon.  If  more  aircraft  are  needed,  then  the 


28 


Civil  Reserve  Air  Fleet  (CRAF)  is  used  to  supplement  Air 
Force  lift  capability  by  using  many  different  types  of 
aircraft.  For  the  long-range  international  segment  of  CRAF, 
DC-8,  B-747,  DC-10,  L-1011,  A310,  and  B707  aircraft  are  used 
(41x31). 

The  CRAF  was  developed  in  1951  so  that  civilian  air 
carriers  could  assist  in  national  defense  at  three  levels  of 
need.  Stage  I  activates  approximately  ten  percent  of  the 
fleet.  Stage  II  includes  edaout  36  percent  of  the  fleet,  and 
Stage  III  is  a  recall  of  all  aircraft  in  CRAF.  Stage  I  and 
II  aircraft  have  74  hours  to  respond  to  a  call-up  request, 
and  Stage  III  aircraft  have  48  hours  (41:30-31).  The  CRAF 
was  first  activated  in  the  Persian  Gulf  War  and  was  very 
successful  in  supplementing  the  Air  Force's  passenger  and 
cargo  airlift  capability. 

The  ability  to  surge  to  meet  a  contingency  or  wartime 
requirement  is  a  key  component  of  our  armed  forces.  With 
the  move  to  a  regional  focus  on  defense  strategy,  fewer 
troops,  and  reduced  defense  budgets,  the  need  to  surge 
quickly  and  effectively  is  evident. 


Summary 

Benchmarking  is  a  process  that  measures  and  compares 
a  conqpany's  operations,  products,  and  services  against  top 
performers  within  and  outside  that  company's  primaxry 
industry  (3:52).  The  main  objective  of  benchmarking  is  to 


29 


con'tinually  Improve  a  company  by  taking  the  best  practices 
of  other  cou^anies  and  applying  them  to  its  operation. 

To  begin  the  benchmarking  process,  a  brief  history  of 
the  air  cargo  industry  is  given  followed  by  rankings  of 
carriers  in  the  industry.  This  helps  determine  the  industry 
leaders  that  are  used  as  benchmarking  partners. 

Finally,  the  importance  of  surge  planning  in  the  U.S. 
armed  forces  is  examined  and  is  cxiicial  to  quick  and 
effective  responses  during  a  contingency  or  war.  A 
literature  search  does  not  reveal  how  surge  planning  is 
accoiiq>lished  by  commercial  air  cargo  carriers;  thus,  this  is 
investigated  through  interviews  with  air  cargo  carrier 
representatives . 

Conclusion 

This  review  of  current  literature  explains  benchmarking 
and  the  benchmarking  process.  A  brief  synopsis  of  the 
history  and  leaders  of  the  air  cargo  industry  is  given,  and 
Air  Force  planning  for  contingencies  is  reviewed.  The 
remainder  of  the  study  continues  the  benchmarking  process  by 
using  a  case  study  methodology  that  focuses  on  the  industry 
leaders  to  determine  which  practices  are  applicable  to  the 
Air  Force. 


30 


III.  Methodology 


Overvleir 

This  chapter  describes,  in  three  sections,  the 
methodology  used  to  benchmark  the  beat  practices  of  air 
cargo  industry  leaders.  This  chapter  is  divided  into  three 
parts.  The  first  section  describes  the  research  design  and 
validity  and  reliability  when  using  qualitative  research. 
The  second  section  presents  the  data  collection  techniques 
used  in  the  research  design  to  include  purposeful  sampling 
to  select  the  air  cargo  carriers,  an  investigative  study 
used  to  focus  the  research  effort,  a  pilot  study,  a  pretest 
of  interview  questions,  observations,  and  personal 
interviews.  Finally,  this  chapter  describes  how  the 
findings  from  the  data  collection  plan  are  analyzed  to 
determine  what  the  Air  Force  can  learn  from  air  cargo 
industry  leaders. 

Research  Design 

Benchmarking  has  traditionally  been  used  to  search  for 
one  organization  that  is  the  best  at  one  practice  in  its 
industry.  For  the  purpose  of  this  study,  benchmarking  is 
used  in  conjunction  with  a  case  study  approach  to  examine 
several  leaders  in  the  diverse  air  cargo  industry  and 
identify  their  best  practices  to  the  Air  Force. 

Emory  defines  research  design  as  a  "plan  and  structure 
of  investigation  so  conceived  as  to  obtain  answers  to 


31 


research  questions"  (30:138).  The  case  study  is  one  of 
nuissrous  well^tested  designs  and  techniques  used  to  help 
guide  inquiry  and  study  a  phenomenon  systematically.  The 
case  study  research  design  involves  organizing  the  data  by 
specific  cases  to  permit  in-depth  study  of  these  cases 
(69:303).  Case  studies  can  involve  either  single  or 
multiple  cases  with  numerous  levels  of  analysis — they  offer 
insights  that  can  be  construed  as  tentative  hypotheses  to 
help  structure  further  research  (28:534).  The  purpose  of 
case  study  analysis  is  to  gather  comprehensive,  systematic, 
and  in-depth  information  about  each  case  of  interest.  Since 
benchmarking,  as  described  in  the  literature  review  in 
Chapter  II,  is  the  search  for  industry's  best  practices,  the 
case  study  research  design  is  well-suited  to  provide  an  in- 
depth  study  to  help  identify  the  best  practices  used  by  air 
ceurgo  industry  leaders. 

Validity  and  Reliability.  Case  studies  and  qualitative 
research  have  often  been  criticized  as  lacking  validity, 
reliediility,  and  being  "scientifically  worthless"  because 
they  fail  to  meet  minimal  design  requirements  for  comparison 
(30:143;  69:19).  However,  well-defined  case  studies  often 
challenge  theory  and  provide  a  source  of  new  hypotheses 
(30:143) . 

Patton  offers  that  the  long-standing  debate  concerning 
the  purpose  of  qualitative  methods  and  how  qualitative 
approaches  fit  into  the  larger  purposes  of  social  science 
depends  on  one's  perspective  of  truth  (69:268-269). 


32 


. . .  scientific  inf orxaation  varies  with  regard  to 
its  degree  of  approximation  to  some  postulated 
absolute  truth «  In  general,  though,  the  true 
value  of  our  information  is  best  measured  by 
criteria  of  usefulness — in  predicting  and 
explaining  our  experience  in  the  natural  world. 

Criteria  of  usefulness  are  derivable  both  from 
theoretical  domains  of  science  and  from  people's 
practical  experience  and  problems.  (69:272) 

To  ensure  validity  and  reliability  in  case  study 

research,  various  procedures  are  offered.  These  include 

"triangulation" ,  or  using  multiple  sources  of  data  and 

multiple  methods  of  investigation  to  confirm  emerging 

findings,  and  performing  "cross-case  analysis"  that  searches 

for  generalized  categories  and  patterns  between  cases 

(69:331).  This  research  effort  uses  these  measures  to 

reduce  bias  and  ensure  validity  and  reliability  in  the  case 

study  analysis. 

Data  Collection 

Purposeful  Sasqpling— Selection  of  Air  Cargo  Carriers. 
Patton  suggests  using  purposeful  sampling  when  one  wants  to 
learn  and  understand  something  about  certain  select  cases. 

He  further  states  that  decision  makers  and  evaluators  can 
determine  what  cases  they  can  learn  the  most  from,  and  those 
are  the  cases  that  are  selected  for  study  (69:101). 

This  research  effort  uses  purposeful  seunpling  to  select  air 
cargo  carriers  for  the  case  study  analysis.  The 
researchers  selected  air  cargo  carriers  based  upon  sales, 
the  only  rankings  found  in  the  literature  (Chapter  II). 
Although  benchmarking  requires  using  the  best  industry 


33 


practices,  no  such  ranking  exists  in  the  literature.  In 
addition,  information  obtained  from  Headquarters  Air 
Hobility  CcMnand  (HQ  AMC)  provided  the  basis  for  selection 
of  the  Air  Force  aerial  port  squadron.  One  Air  Force  aerial 
port  squadron  was  chosen  for  study  based  upon  maximum 
tonnage  moved  in  1992  (a  specific  categorization  used  by  HQ 
ANC—*not  a  ranking) .  The  number  of  carriers  selected  was 
kept  delibera  sly  small  to  allow  the  survey  to  focus  on 
depth  of  information  versus  breadth — qualitative  versus 
quantitative  analysis. 

Qualitative  researchers  usually  work  with  smaller 
samples  of  people  in  fewer  global  settings  than  do 
survey  researchers.  Collecting  data  is  a  led>or- 
intensive  operation,  traditionally  lasting  for 
months...  (69:15) 

Following  a  selection  of  air  cargo  carriers,  the  researchers 
conducted  an  investigative  study  to  narrow  the  focus  of  the 
research. 

Investigative  Study.  Yin  suggests  that  "the 
investigator  must  learn  to  integrate  real-world  events  with 
the  needs  of  the  data  collection  plan"  (92:67).  In  an 
effort  to  narrow  the  focus  of  the  study,  integrate  real- 
world  Air  Force  issues,  and  solicit  advice  from  Air  Force 
policy  managers,  the  researchers  selected  HQ  AMC  at 
Scott  AFB,  Illinois  to  conduct  an  investigative  study. 

A  non- scheduled- structured  personal  inteinriew  was 
conducted  with  mid-level  policy  managers  from  HQ  AMC.  This 
interview  was  a  structured  encounter  between  the 
interviewers  and  respondents  where  major  aspects  of  the 


34 


study  were  explained  and  respondents  were  given  considerable 
liberty  in  expressing  their  definition  of  a  situation  that 
was  presented  to  them  (37:225).  This  interview  was 
exploratory  in  nature  with  the  goal  of  obtaining  information 
to  integrate  real-world  Air  Force  issues  in  the  data 
collection  plan  and  to  obtain  a  consensus  of  what  Air  Force 
transportation  policy  managers  consider  to  be  the  beat 
practices  in  the  air  cargo  industry.  Questions  asked  during 
this  study  are  listed  in  Appendix  A.  The  researchers  used 
the  information  obtained  from  the  investigative  study  to 
prepare  for  the  pilot  study. 

Pilot  Study.  Yin  proposes  conducting  a  pilot  case 
study  to  prepare  for  data  collection  (92:74).  A  pilot  case 
study  serves  to  provide  greater  familiarity  with  the 
research  topic,  to  refine  data  collection  procedures  for 
case  study  research,  and  to  develop  questions. 

Accessibility  and  geographical  convenience  are  recommended 
criteria  for  selection  of  a  pilot  case  study.  Therefore, 
these  criteria  were  used  in  accomplishing  the  pilot  study 
for  this  research. 

The  researchers  selected  Airborne  Express  (the  airline 
section  of  Airborne  Freight)  in  Wilmington,  Ohio  as  the 
pilot  case  organization.  A  site  visit  and  an  unstructured 
personal  interview  were  conducted  with  the  hub  manager  at 
Airborne  Express.  The  unstructured  interview  and  site  visit 
were  primarily  exploratory  with  the  intent  to  determine  what 
the  air  cargo  carriers  perceive  to  be  the  best  practices  in 


35 


their  industry.  Questions  asked  during  this  study  are 
listed  in  Appendix  B.  The  researchers  used  information  from 
both  the  investigative  study  and  the  pilot  study  to  narrow 
the  focus  of  the  research  and  to  develop  the  questions  used 
in  the  interview  process. 

Pretest  of  Interview  Questions.  After  the  pilot  study 
and  the  development  of  the  interview  questions,  a  pretest  of 
the  interview  questions  is  recommended  by  Yin  as  a  formal 
"dress  rehearsal"  (92:74).  Pretesting  is  used  to  detect 
weaknesses  in  survey  instruments  and  relies  on  colleagues, 
respondent  surrogates,  or  actual  respondents  for  the  purpose 
of  evaluating  and  refining  a  measuring  instrument  (30:377). 
The  purpose  of  the  pretest  is  to  ensure  validity  and 
reliability  of  the  interview  questions  and  guard  against 
interview  bias.  The. pretest  also  helps  prepare  the 
researchers  for  the  subsequent  interviews  and  allows  for 
constructive  feedback. 

Keeping  conditions  and  times  close  to  actual  study 
conditions,  pretests  of  the  interview  questions  were 
conducted  with  ten  professional  transportation  officers  who 
were  students  at  the  Air  Force  Institute  of  Technology 
(AFIT) .  Based  on  inputs  from  the  pretest  respondents,  minor 
changes  were  made  to  improve  and  clarify  the  wording  of 
several  questions  subsequently  used  in  the  interview 
process . 

Following  the  pretest  and  finalization  of  the  interview 
questions,  the  researchers  contacted  personnel  at  the  air 


36 


cargo  carriers  and  the  Air  Force  aerial  port  squadron  by 
telephone  to  arrange  for  site  visits  and  interviews.  The 
researchers  also  requested  informational  literature  from  the 
commercial  air  cargo  carriers  to  further  prepare  for  the 
site  visits. 

<tt>oervation.  Observational  data  permit  the  evaluator 
to  understand  a  program  to  an  extent  not  entirely  possible 
using  only  the  insights  of  others  obtained  through 
interviews  (69:30).  The  value  of  observational  data  in 
research  is  that  decision  makers  and  information  users  can 
c<xse  to  understand  program  activities  through  detailed 
descriptive  information  (69:124).  Observational  data  must 
have  depth  and  detail  and  are  valuable  tools  to  supplement 
the  interviewing  process  (30:400). 

Patton  notes  that  direct ,  personal  contact  with  and 
observations  of  a  progrcun  have  several  advantages  for 
evaluators:  1)  the  evaluators  are  better  able  to  understand 
the  context  within  which  the  program  operates;  2)  the 
evaluators  can  directly  experience  the  progreun  as  a 
phenomenon  unto  itself  and  make  the  most  of  an  inductive, 
discovery-oriented  approach;  3)  the  evaluators  have  the 
opportunity  to  see  things  that  may  routinely  escape 
conscious  awareness  among  participants;  4)  the  evaluators 
can  learn  about  things  program  participants  may  be  unwilling 
to  talk  about  in  an  interview;  5)  by  making  their  own 
perceptions  part  of  the  data  availetble,  evaluators  are  able 
to  present  a  more  comprehensive  view  of  the  case  being 


37 


•tudi«d;  aikl  6)  with  direct  contact,  the  observers  take  in 
inforaation  and  fora  iiqiressions  that  go  beyond  what  can  be 
fully  recorded  in  even  the  aost  detailed  field  notes 
(69x123-126). 

Through  site  visits,  the  researchers  observed  non- 
behavioral,  physical  processes  at  each  air  cargo  industry 
leader's  hub  and  at  one  Air  Force  aerial  port  squadron. 
Observation  is  necessary  to  auppleaent  the  interview  process 
and  deteraine  if  any  practices  used  by  air  cargo  industry 
leaders  are  applicable  to  Air  Force  cargo  operations.  In 
general,  the  researchers  observed  the  aoveaent  of  cargo  in 
all  stages  of  cargo  handling  (i.e.  receipt,  consolidation, 
aission  planning,  loading) .  When  possible,  the  researchers 
observed  cargo  operations  during  peak  operating  hours  and 
cosqileted  the  observations  prior  to  the  interview  process 
for  a  better  understanding  of  local  hub  operations.  These 
observations  were  used  to  answer  the  third  investigative 
question  ( "What  can  the  Air  Force  learn  from  observing  day- 
to-day  operations  of  air  cargo  industry  leaders?”). 

Xateinriew  Process.  Following  each  observational  tour 
of  an  air  cargo  carrier  and  the  Air  Force  aerial  port 
operation,  schedule-structured  personal  interviews  were 
conducted  with  operational  Managers  or  applicable  experts 
familiar  with  the  organization's  air  cargo  operations.  This 
type  of  interview  used  an  open-ended  format  in  which  the 
questions,  their  wording,  and  their  sequence  were  fixed  and 
identical  for  evexry  respondent  (37:224).  The  interview 


38 


questions  were  written  out  in  advance  exactly  the  way  they 
were  asked  during  the  interview.  The  schedule- structured 
and  <^>en-ended  format  of  interviewing  is  used  when  it  is 
important  to  minisdze  variation  in  the  questions  posed  to 
interviewees  (80:A-24).  This  reduces  the  possibility  of 
bias  that  cosms  from  having  different  interviews  for 
different  people  (69:198).  Notes  and  tape  recordings  were 
made  in  all  cases,  with  the  understanding  that  the 
discussions  were  strictly  non-attributable  (80:A-24). 
Responses  requiring  further  clarification  were  followed  up 
by  telephone. 

The  researchers  used  the  remaining  investigative 
questions  in  Chapter  I  to  fomnilate  specific  interview 
questions.  The  investigative  questions,  followed  by  the 
applicable  interview  question  or  approach  used  to  answer  the 
investigative  question,  are  listed  below.  Appendix  C 
contains  a  list  of  all  interview  questions. 

1.  Nho  are  the  U,S,  air  cargo  industry  leaders? 

This  investigative  question  is  answered  in  Chapter  IV 
by  cosqparing  sales  and  number  of  eiiq)loyees  of  all  U.S. 
air  cargo  conqianies  from  Chapter  II. 

2.  Can  the  air  cargo  industry  leaders  be  categorized 
by  the  type  of  cargo  handled? 

Interview  question  one.  What  type  of  cargo  do  you 
specialize  in  handling  and  what  other  types  of  cargo  do 
you  handle? 


39 


3.  iriiat  can  the  Air  Force  learn  from  obaerving  day-to- 
day  operations  of  air  cargo  industry  leaders? 

This  investigative  question  is  answered  by  observing 
the  air  cargo  handling  operations  (through  site  visits) 
at  one  Air  Force  aerial  port  squadron  and  each  air 
cargo  carrier  identified  by  investigative  question  one. 

4.  What  are  the  differences  between  how  the  Air  Force 
and  air  cargo  industry  leaders  plan  for  surge  periods  of 
increased  workload  (i,e.,  contingencies,  Christmas)? 

Interview  question  two.  Do  you  have  written  procedures 
in  place  for  surge  periods?  If  so,  are  these  coiiq>any- 
wide  (Air  Force  wide),  regional,  or  local?  (A  surge  is 
to  rise  suddenly  to  an  excessive  or  abnormal  value) . 
Interview  question  three.  How  often  are  your  surge 
plans  updated  and  do  you  ever  test  your  plans?  (A  test 
is  a  critical  examination,  observation,  or  evaluation) . 

5.  What  are  the  differences  between  how  the  Air  Force 
and  air  cargo  industry  leaders'  cargo  handling  equipment  and 
personnel  requirements  change  to  accommodate  increased 
workloads? 

Interview  question  four.  What  effects  do  surges  have 
on  your  cargo  handling  equipment? 

Interview  question  five.  If  extra  equipment  is  needed, 
do  you  obtain  it  through  in-house  resources  or  by 
contract?  Do  you  go  through  company-wide  (Air  Force 
wide),  regional,  or  local  channels? 


40 


IntmxwLmm  qa«stioii  six.  During  surge  periods,  how  do 
your  personnel  levels  change? 

Xatervisdf  guestion  seven.  Do  you  go  through  company- 
wide  (Air  Force  wide),  regional,  or  local  channels  to 
get  additional  personnel?  Are  they  hired  as  part-time 
or  full-time? 

Interview  question  eight.  How  do  you  train  these 
additional  eaqployees  and  is  there  a  learning  curve 
associated  with  this  training? 

6,  What  are  the  dxfferemcea  between  how  the  Air  Force 
and  air  cargo  industry  leaders  measure  the  effectiveness  of 
their  air  cargo  handling  operations? 

Interview  question  nine.  How  do  you  measure  the 
effectiveness  of  your  day-to-day  (peacetime)  cargo 
handling  operations? 

Interview  question  ten.  How  do  you  measure  the 
effectiveness  of  your  cargo  handling  operations  during 
surges  ( contingencies /war ) ? 

Findings  and  Analysis 

Analysis  of  qualitative  data  is  often  described  as  a 
difficult  task.  Cuba  suggests  that  no  infallible  procedure 
exists  for  converting  field  notes  and  observations  about 
issues  into  systematic  categories  (69:313).  Uncovering 
patterns,  themes,  and  categories  is  a  creative  process  that 
requires  the  researchers  to  make  carefully  considered 
judgements  about  what  is  really  significant  in  the  data. 


41 


This  research  effort  analyzes  data  collected  fron  three 
sources:  the  literature  review  (Chapter  II) ^  observations 
recorded  by  the  researchers  during  site  visits,  and  answers 
given  by  respondents  to  questions  asked  in  the  interview 
process . 

Gap  analysis  is  used  in  the  benchaarking  effort  to 
determine  what  type  of  performance  gap  or  difference  exists 
between  the  Air  Force  and  air  cargo  industry  leaders.  To 
answer  the  investigative  questions,  the  data  collected  from 
the  literature  review,  observations,  and  interviews  are 
analyzed  by  looking  for  comron  themes  or  patterns.  Where 
possible,  the  data  collected  from  the  case  study  respondents 
in  the  interview  process  are  matched  against  the  literature 
review  and  observations  in  an  effort  to  help  answer  the 
investigative  questions . 

Descriptive  observations  during  the  site  visits  to  each 
company,  along  with  para-phrased  answers  given  by 
respondents  during  the  interviews,  are  recorded  by  the 
researchers  and  presented  in  the  Appendices  D  through  J. 

The  researchers  analyze  the  data  and  provide  summarizations 
of  the  analyses  using  cross-classification  tables  presented 
in  Chapter  IV. 

The  methodology  described  in  this  chapter  uses  a 
qualitative  case  study  research  design  that  includes 
purposeful  seunpling,  a  pilot  study,  observations,  and 


42 


personal  interviews  to  benchmark  the  best  practices  of  air 
cargo  industry  leaders.  The  chapter  describes  the 
methodology  used  by  the  researchers  to  help  answer  the 
investigative  questions  from  Chapter  I.  The  next  chapter  of 
this  thesis  presents  the  findings  and  analysis  of  the 
literature  review,  observations,  and  interviews. 


IV 


(hr«rvl«ir 

This  chapter  presents  the  findings  and  analysis  of  the 
research  study.  Findings  of  the  literature  review, 
observations,  and  interviews  are  analyzed  by  examining  each 
investigative  question.  The  appendices,  which  give  detailed 
descriptions  of  the  researchers'  observations  and  para¬ 
phrased  answers  to  interviews  with  each  air  cargo  carrier 
and  the  aerial  port,  are  summarized  in  Table  5. 

TABLE  5:  0B8BRVATI0H  AMD  IMTERVIEH  APPEBDICES 


SCSEioizflSisB 

APBARato 

Observation 

(page) 

interview 

(page) 

OPS 

-n". 

76 

82 

redxx 

93 

101 

Basry 

■  r  ■■ 

108 

116 

Airborne 

Q 

123 

129 

DBL 

B 

136 

142 

Burlington 

■'■I 

149 

155 

Dover  APB 

J 

161 

172 

These  findings  are  summarized  in  cross-classification  tables 
that  aid  in  the  analysis.  Triangulation,  or  multiple  data 
sources,  used  to  analyze  findings,  and  cross-case  analysis, 
which  identifies  generalized  categories  and  patterns,  are 
used  to  ensure  relieibility  and  validity  in  the  analysis  of 
the  data  collected  (69:331).  Finally,  gap  analysis  is  used 
to  assess  what  differences  exist  between  industry  leaders 


44 


and  the  Air  Force  with  respect  to  specific  investigative 
questions . 


Investigative  Question  One 

Mho  are  the  U.S.  air  cargo  industry  leaders? 

The  literature  review  listed  several  rankings  of  air 
cargo  carriers.  There  is  not  one  air  cargo  carrier  that  can 
be  identified  as  the  industry  leader.  Therefore,  since  the 
same  six  companies  are  in  all  the  rankings  of  the  air  cargo 
carriers,  all  six  will  be  used  as  the  leaders  of  the  air 
cargo  industry  for  this  benchmarking  study.  The  companies 
chosen  as  industry  leaders  are  shown  in  Ted>le  6. 

TABLE  6:  INDUSTRY  LEADERS 


United  Parcel  Service 
Federal  Express 
Emery  Air  Freight 
Airborne  Freight 
DHL  Airways 
Burlington  Air  Express 


By  choosing  six  companies  as  benchmarking  partners,  a 
cross-section  of  the  industry  is  studied.  These  six 
companies  represent  those  who  specialize  in  small  packages 
and  express  delivery,  those  who  deliver  large  freight,  and 
those  who  deliver  a  variety  of  freight  and  provide  a  variety 
of  services.  United  Parcel  Service  (UPS)  and  Federal 
Express  are  consistently  the  top  two  leaders  ranked  by  sales 


j>nri  nuBiber  of  employees  in  the  literature.  However,  since 
UPS  moves  a  majority  of  its  cargo  by  surface,  the  sales 
figures  included  in  the  rankings  are  misleading.  If  the 
airlift  portion  of  UPS's  business  is  considered  by  itself, 
it  would  probably  rank  behind  Federal  Express.  The  other 
companies  used  as  benchmarks  are  not  only  mentioned  in  the 
literature  with  UPS  and  Federal  Express  but  are  all  in  close 
proximity  to  Wright-Patterson  AFB  and  are  easily  accessible 
partners  to  analyze. 

Since  six  of  over  20  carriers  were  chosen  as  industry 
leaders,  this  gives  a  large  sample  size  which  will  increase 
reliability.  This  large  san^le  will  also  give  a  variety  of 
companies'  best  practices  from  which  to  study. 

Overview  of  Industry  Leaders.  United  Parcel  Service  is 
a  private  company  that  moves  almost  any  size  of  packages 
both  domestically  and  internationally.  A  majority  of  UPS' 
business  is  providing  surface  transportation  services. 
However,  the  airlift  portion  of  the  business  is  quite  large 
and  makes  UPS  the  second  largest  carrier  of  packages  by  air. 
Standiford  Field  in  Louisville,  Kentucky  serves  as  UPS'  hub 
for  its  airlift  operations. 

Federal  Express  is  a  public  company  that  specializes  in 
the  express  (overnight)  delivery  of  packages.  While  Federal 
Express  will  deliver  packages  of  almost  any  size,  the 
majority  of  its  business  is  small  packages  weighing  less 
than  70  pounds.  Like  UPS,  Federal  Express  moves  cargo  both 


46 


within  the  U.S.  and  internationally.  The  Memphis,  Tennessee 
airport  is  the  hub  for  Federal  Express'  operations. 

Emery  Air  Freight  is  a  public  coi^>any  that  moves  any 
type  of  cargo,  but  its  specialty  is  in  cargo  weighing  over 
ten  pounds.  Emery  also  has  both  domestic  and  international 
operations,  and  its  hub  is  located  at  the  Dayton 
International  Airport  in  Ohio. 

Airborne  Freight  is  a  public  conqpany  that  specializes 
in  moving  small  packages  by  express  service.  Airborne  flies 
its  own  aircraft  domestically  and  uses  contracted  airlift  to 
move  cargo  internationally,  where  Airborne  employees  receive 
the  cargo  for  onward  movement.  Airborne  Freight  owns  its 
own  airport.  Airborne  Air  Park,  in  Wilmington,  Ohio  which 
serves  as  the  hub  for  its  operations. 

DHL  Airways  is  a  private  company  and  the  largest 
international  overnight  package  shipper  (12:73;  54:32).  DHL 
moves  almost  any  type  of  cargo  in  the  U.S.  but  is  more 
competitive  in  the  international  market.  Its  hub  is  at  the 
Greater  Cincinnati-Northern  Kentucky  airport. 

Burlington  Air  Express  is  a  public  company  that 
specializes  in  moving  heavy  freight  weighing  over  70  pounds 
but  also  moves  small  packages.  Like  the  other  carriers, 
Burlington  is  active  in  both  the  domestic  and  international 
markets.  Its  hub  is  at  the  Toledo,  Ohio  airport. 

The  eJbove  information  about  these  industry  leaders  was 
summarized  from  numerous  articles  on  the  air  cargo  industry 


and  from  the  carriers  themselves.  Several  things  that  the 
industry  leaders  have  in  common  are  that  they  all  specialize 
in  meeting  a  certain  market  niche  and  all  are  active  both 
dcmwstically  and  internationally. 

Federal  Express  and  Airborne  Freight  concentrate  on 
express  delivery  of  small  packages,  while  Emery  Freight  and 
Burlington  Air  Express  both  concentrate  on  the  movement  of 
heavy  freight.  UPS  and  DHL,  the  two  private  companies, 
concentrate  on  delivering  almost  any  type  of  cargo  anywhere 
in  the  world. 

Air  Force  Air  Terminals.  To  determine  which  Air  Force 
air  terminal  is  used  to  compare  with  the  benchmark  partners, 
a  comparison  is  made  of  cargo  handled  by  five  major  aerial 
ports  in  the  U.S.  from  information  obtained  from  Air 
Nobility  Command.  (Air  Nobility  Command  does  not  rank  its 
aerial  ports  by  any  type  of  measurement).  After  analyzing 
tonnage  of  originating,  terminating,  and  intransit  cargo 
handled,  the  following  ranking  of  aerial  ports  (by  tonnage 
handled)  was  coii^iled  by  the  researchers: 

1.  Dover  AFB,  Delaware 

2.  Travis  AFB,  California 

3.  Charleston  AFB,  South  Carolina 

4.  NcGuire  AFB,  New  Jersey 

5.  NcChord  AFB,  Washington 

Since  Dover  AFB  handles  the  most  cargo,  it  was  chosen  as  the 
air  tejcminal  used  in  the  benchmark  study. 


48 


iBT^stlgatlY*  QuBation  T»fO 


ran  tlM  air  cargo  Industry  laadars  ba  catagorizad  by  tha  typa  of 
cargo  handlad?  _ _ _ 

Information  from  the  literature  review  and  the  first 
interview  question  ( "ffhat  type  of  cargo  do  you  specialize  in 
handling  and  what  other  types  of  cargo  do  you  handle?"),  is 
summarized  in  Table  7 .  More  detailed  information  can  be 
found  in  the  applicable  appendices. 

The  air  cargo  industry  leaders  can  be  categorized  by 
the  type  of  cargo  handled.  United  Parcel  Service,  Federal 
Express,  Airborne  Freight,  and  DHL  Airways  specialize  in 
moving  small  (express)  packages.  Emery  Air  Freight  and 
Burlington  Air  Express  specialize  in  moving  large  (heavy 
weight)  cargo. 

Investigative  Question  Three 

what  can  the  Air  Force  learn  from  observing  day-to-day  operations 
of  air  cargo  industry  leaders'* 

The  findings  for  this  investigative  question  are  based 
upon  observations  by  the  researchers.  After  observing  all 
air  cargo  industiry  leaders  and  Dover  AFB,  nine  categories  of 
observations  were  noted.  The  nine  categories  are:  setting, 
cargo  handling  equipment,  aircraft,  small  package  sort, 
large  cargo  handling,  employees,  intransit  visibility, 
operations  interface,  and  safety.  Full  details  on  each  of 
the  nine  areas  observed  are  in  the  applicable  appendices. 


49 


TABLE  7  s  lEVEBTIOATIVE  QUBBTIM  2  ~  CAE  THE  AIR 
XHDU8TRY  LEADERS  BE  CATEGORISED  BT  THE  TYPE  OP  CARGO 


50 


To  narrow  the  nine  categories  of  observations  into  a 
fom  to  answer  this  investigative  question,  only  sp€K:i£ic 
categories  of  observations  which  are  deeswd  significant  by 
the  researchers  are  sho«m  in  Table  8.  This  reduces  the 
nusdier  of  categories  to  four-^-cargo  handling  equipsMnt, 
intransit  visibility,  operations  interface,  and  safety. 
Blank  cells  in  the  table  do  iaply  that  a  coopany  does 
not  have  that  particular  capability;  instead,  the 
researchers  detemined  that  the  company's  capabilities  in 
these  areas  could  not  be  used  by  the  Air  Force. 

Table  8  is  read  by  selecting  an  observation  category, 
then  reading  across  to  the  industry  leader's  entry  for  that 
category.  For  example,  UPS  is  identified  in  the  cargo 
handling  equipment  category  for  its  see-through  and 
collapsible  containers  and  its  pallet  dollies.  Federal 
Express  is  identified  in  the  intranait  visibility  category 
for  its  bar  code  scanners  and  its  future  technology.  Emery 
Air  Freight  is  identified  in  the  operations  interface 
category  for  its  operations-coordination  tower.  Burlington 
Air  Express  is  identified  in  the  safety  category  for  its 
recycled  air,  required  lifting  belts,  and  calisthenics 
before  work  begins. 

Investigative  Question  Four 

what  are  tha  dlffarances  between  how  the  Air  Force  and  air  cargo 

industry  leaders  plan  for  surge  periods  of  increased  trorkloads? 


51 


INVESTIOATIVB  QUESTION  3  NEAT  CAM  TEE  AIR  FORCE  LEARN  FROM  OBSERVZHO  DAT-TO- 
DAT  OPERATIONS  OF  AIR  CARGO  INDUSTRY  LEADERS? 


8  §  ■ 

■a  M  ■ 

•  &S  * 

IP 

tool 


•  Otc-H 
01  O-H^ 

3  m 

14  O 

I  *0  O  O  I 


•  js  m 

r4  ■  O 
0>f M  A 

545-5 

41^  a  a 

■  Mja  M 
O'Q  4>  o«f 

P  l4-*4  O  O 

e  0-0  h  T 

•  a 

u  o  o  >  o 
T  u  p  o  e 


•a 

•  o> 

M  a  I 

U'H  ■  ■ 
>iP  M  U 
0*44  Mr-I-P 

S-p  p  a  c 

•4>H  u  f 


III 

m  **** 
ll  *  a 

a  "v 

I  u 


8  o  a  a 

'O  U  pa 

a  a  a  a  a 

a  Old  p  o<H 
oia-H  3mm 
p-H  a  u  OH 
a  OP  ap  o 
a  a  «  e  2 
Oi  o  o 

I  O  P  I  O  I 


aa  aa 

M  q  e 

8  a  5  o  a 

PT)  M  a 

■o  a  a  a  a 

Mam  oiO'H 
a  I  04^  oia-Hr4 
a  a  a  a  h*h  ai-i 
oaopacpo 

*“58^8.8^ 

I  I  P  o  I  o  u  I 


•5.  * 

01  M 

a  M 
O  a-H  a 
p  p  a  p  a 

M  a  Cba  a 

p  a  a  a-H 

I  t4  "H  1-4 

a  arH  afH 
a  P  o  P  g 
ct  c  u  0  o 
o  o 

I  u  I  u  i 


2  0* 

c:  0 

o  i 

2  a 

>  Bt 

>-l 

« 

Q I  p 

O  UM 


52 


The  findings  for  this  investigative  question  are  based 
upon  interview  questions  two  and  three  ("Do  you  have  written 
procedures  in  place  for  surge  periods?  If  so,  are  these 
etM^any-wlda  [Air  Force  wide],  regional,  or  local?"  and  "How 
often  are  your  surge  plans  updated  and  do  you  ever  test  your 
plans?”)  and  the  researchers*  experience.  However,  the 
aajority  of  the  findings  for  this  investigative  question  are 
based  upon  the  interviews  conducted  with  operational 
nanagers  or  applicable  experts  familiar  with  the 
organization's  air  cargo  operations.  Detailed  para-phrased 
responses  to  the  interview  questions  eure  vrritten  in  the 
appendices . 

A  summarization  of  the  findings  are  listed  in  Table  9. 
Blank  areas  in  the  table  indicate  that  this  aspect  of  surge 
planning  was  not  mentioned  in  the  interview.  An  example  of 
a  conqparison  of  differences  in  how  UPS  and  Dover  AFB/Air 
Force  plan  for  surge  periods  follows.  The  form  of  surge 
plans  for  UPS  are  written,  while  Dover  AFB/Air  Force  has 
sooie  written  plans  for  surge.  The  type  of  plans  used  by  UPS 
are  "peak  plans”  which  are  prepared  12  months  prior  to  the 
anticipated  surge  with  the  operational  portion  of  the  peak 
plans  written  in  August  for  the  December/Christmas  surge 
period.  In  contrast,  the  436th  APS  at  Dover  AFB  has  written 
agreements  with  local  reserve  units  for  reserve  augmentation 
and,  based  upon  the  researcher's  experience  but  not 
mentioned  in  the  Dover  AFB  interview,  the  Air  Force  also  has 


53 


se 


Si 


a 

o 


H 

9^ 

r  * 

>• 

MP 

P 

•  c 

•  H 

U 

an  a 

«H  c 
0IA  « 

9 

QH 

1  « 

«  a  a 

ll 

u 

I  Oi 


L 


m  o 

w 

•H  et« 
44  a  • 

■  •w  >• 

_ •-Wf-t  o 

l4«4ia««41~ 

01  •  4  «  44  D  ' 

«  Q 


•  o  h 

Sd  •'i 

M  •41 

••sa 

I  il  X  < 


•  -Hi-I  O 

m 


i 

« 

u 


■ 

I 


>« 

■S 

e 

o 


I 

■ 


S*  •  ci 

flk  M  M  h41  3  > 
O  A  9^  ja-H 
I  <H  U  •  •  E4  0« 


M  a 
I  0*0  o 

•  <M  ••H 

8  0  41 

■  •H  • 
M  •  M  9 

"•3JS 

I  TJ  O  ■ 


O 

•H  in  — 
o*  I  •g 
•  o  0 

41  '-'•H 

!*  ^ 

M  ■  f 

41  a  & 
a  • 

^  M 
I  01  >1 


I 

o 


a. 8 

2S" 

I 


n  I 
^  _  41  CM 

^  '<'9  •  •  -HO 

M  -HUM  <M  • 

•  •  Qfi-ia  U« 

•  Q  •  •  OiC  C  •  •  01 
01  9  ■  >  O  C  «  D>Q  M 

rMO'd^OiHC  9 
I  aa«>-Ha<<«a 


M 

•  JS 

K41 

8° 

aer^ 

s 

.  as 


•H  9 

«g 

I  « 


41  <M  O 

«  O  P 

OtCO  •  • 

•HOC  >|«  ■  >!■  C 
U  8  J  ■  MH  Di-H  C 
•Ha  'af»j<eBM 
41  •41  C  4>  ••H  M  ~ 
C  »•  41-H  M  •  41  •  g 

^MMaaSas* 

9*H  •99 
I  aiHiH  A  O'  I 


•  41  C 

S£  o 

TJ  O 


*0  a 

•  • 

O  M  >1 
fH  OTJ^ 
M*a  OiH 
•  •  41  • 
‘  •  9 

.  7J  C 

Mac 
I  a9  • 


S8> 


I 

a 

9 


V 

"S  a 'OH  A 

•  C  OA  41 
01  «  41  •  C 

H  •  •  Q 

•  01'a  >  6 


Er 

I 

I 


•o 

c 

« 


je 

^  s 

•  A  -•  a  o 

41  AM 

e  •  >f  •  a 


SS'SS.S' 


•a  — 

a 

9 

o 

g 

•H  a-H 
•  41  41 

SC  C 

9  o 
>  o 

I  •  — 


A 

So 

a**"? 

•M  a  A-H _ 

41  41  41  g  « 

I  41  e  41  a  aT) 


I  m 

J 


*0 


■O  >1 

•  ■H 
PH 

a  • 

•  9 

I  « 


•  O 

•i  ** 

*  O  A 
mH  • 


M  • 

aa 


•o 

• 

p 

a 

• 


O 

V 

a 

V 
•H 

O 

O, 

X 

o 


a 

M 

0) 

A 

U 

M 

<d 

« 

a 

o 

u 

o 

A 

A 

C 

o 

tJ 

(V 

a 

df 

a 


54 


base  nobility  plans  that  outline  mobilization  procedures  of 
operations  during  contingencies/war.  UPS'  peak  plans  are 
updated  incrementally  every  month,  week,  and  day  as  the 
December  peak  period  approaches.  Plans  used  by  the  Air 
Force  are  updated  annually.  Finally,  UPS'  peak  plans  are 
testeef  two  weeks  prior  to  the  peak  period  by  increasing  the 
manpower  (and  equipment,  if  necessary)  within  the  sort 
facility  to  the  level  anticipated  in  the  peak  plan.  The 
aerial  port  at  Dover  AFB  has  real-world  events,  such  as 
Operation  DESERT  SHIELD/STORM  and  Operation  PROVIDE  COMFORT, 
that  continually  test  surge  plans. 

A  gap  analysis  of  differences  between  the  Air  Force  and 
air  cargo  industry  leaders  resulted  in  so  many  differences 
in  the  methods  of  planning  for  surge  periods  that  a 
determination  of  a  best  practice  cannot  be  made.  Neither 
positive,  negative,  nor  parity  gaps  exist.  A  major  factor 
in  these  differences  is  the  mission  of  the  Air  Force  to  move 
cargo  during  peak  periods  is  not  easily  predicted.  In  some 
cases,  the  commercial  air  cargo  carriers  have  peak  periods 
that  are  anticipated  for  several  months  (i.e.  Christmas). 

Investigative  Question  Five 

what  arm  tha  dlffarencaa  betwaan  how  tha  Air  Forca  and  air  cargo 
industry  laadara*  cargo  handling  aquijOMnt  and  parsonnal 
raquirananta  changa  to  accoenodata  incraasad  workloads? 

The  findings  for  this  investigative  question  are  based 
upon  the  researchers'  experience  and  responses  to  interview 


55 


questions  four^  five,  six,  seven,  and  eight  as  listed  in 
Appendix  C.  The  results  of  the  experiences  and  interviews 
are  sumarized  in  two  tables,  one  for  cargo  handling 
equipstent  and  one  for  personnel*  Applic£d>le  appendices  have 
more  detailed  information. 

Table  10  shows  the  differences  between  industry 
leaders*  and  the  Air  Force's  methods  of  obtaining  additional 
cargo  handling  equipment.  The  method  termed  "in-house" 
refers  to  the  eUsility  to  use  coiiq>any  resources  from  either 
another  area  at  the  main  hub  or  from  a  regional  hub.  "In- 
house"  in  the  Air  Force  means  to  obtain  equipment  from 
another  organization  on  the  Air  Force  base  or  from  another 
Air  Force  base. 

As  Table  10  shows,  there  are  very  few  differences  in 
the  way  the  industzy  leaders  and  the  Air  Force  obtain  extra 
equipment.  Therefore,  parity  exists — there  are  no 
significant  differences. 

As  evident  in  Table  11,  there  are  differences  eunong  the 
industry  leaders  in  how  their  personnel  requirements  change 
to  accommodate  increased  workloads.  Because  the  industry 
leaders  differ  in  their  methods,  it  is  difficult  to  compare 
their  personnel  practices  with  the  Air  Force. 

For  exaiiq)le,  overtime  is  handled  at  DHL  Airways  by 
giving  additional  hours  to  currently  enqployed  part-time 
workers,  while  Dover  AFB/Air  Force  gives  additional  hours  to 
currently  employed  military  personnel  who  are  already 
working  full-time.  Also,  the  military  personnel  are  given 


56 


I“VBSTI<»TIVB  QU18TI0H  5  —  NEAT  ARB  THB  DIPPBRBBCBS  BBTNBBM  BOH 
PORCB  AHD  AIR  CARGO  ZIIDU8TRY  LEA0BR8'  CARGO  BAHOLZRG  B(KIZPMBHT  RB(HIZRBIIBMT8  Ci 

ACCaNMODATE  1HCRBA8BD  NORRLQBD8? 


lit  INVESTIGATIVE  QUESTION  5  —  HEAT  ARE  THE  DIFFERENCES  BETNEEN  BON  THE  AIR  FORCE 
AIR  CARGO  INDUSTRY  LEADERS'  PERSONNEL  REQUIREMENTS  CHANGE  TO  ACCOMMODATE  INCREASED 

WORKLOADS? 


58 


£ew«r  days  off  to  acconunodate  the  overtime  required. 
Burlington  Air  Express  has  in-houae  resources  already  on  the 
payroll.  These  scheduled  casual  and  contingent  en^loyees 
are  used  to  supplement  their  current  part-time  en^loyees. 
Dover  AFB/Air  Force  also  use  in-house  resources  such  as 
personnel  from  outside  of  the  aerial  port  or  augmentees  from 
other  Air  Force  bases.  Teaporary  hires  are  used  by  Emery  as 
an  additional  part-time  worker  pool,  while  Dover  AFB/Air 
Force  hires  civilian  employees  for  short-term  surges. 
Finally,  the  Air  Force  has  other  resources,  namely  Air  Force 
Reserves,  Air  National  Guard,  and  U.S.  Army  augmentees.  The 
industry  leaders  do  not  have  anything  comparable  to  this. 

The  major  difference  found  between  the  industry  leaders 
and  the  Air  Force  was  the  use  of  part-time  versus  full-time 
employees.  This  difference  is  because  of  the  differing 
missions/goals  of  these  organizations.  The  industry  leaders 
work  on  fixed,  time-sensitive  schedules,  and  the  Air  Force 
has  constantly  changing  schedules  due  to  worldwide 
situations.  Therefore,  because  the  missions  are  different, 
the  scheduling  of  personnel  is  different.  There  is  such  a 
great  difference  between  the  industry  leaders  and  the  Air 
Force  that  neither  one  nor  the  other  is  best.  Neither 
positive,  negative,  nor  parity  gaps  exist. 

Investigative  Question  Six 

what  are  the  differences  between  how  the  Air  Force  and  air  cargo 

Industry  leaders  measure  the  effectiveness  of  their  air  cargo 

hamdling  operations? 


59 


Findings  for  this  investigative  question  are  based  upon 
the  researchers'  observations  and  answers  to  the  ninth  and 
tenth  interview  questions  ("How  do  you  measure  the 
effectiveness  of  your  day-to-day  [peacetime]  cargo  handling 
operations?"  and  "How  do  you  measure  the  effectiveness  of 
your  cargo  handling  operations  during  surges 
[contingencies/war]?" ) .  Findings  are  sumnuurized  in  Table  12 
and  more  detailed  information  is  found  in  the  applicable 
appendices . 

The  measures  included  in  Ted>le  12  were  determined  by 
the  researchers  after  all  interviews  were  completed.  These 
measures  are  used  as  a  way  to  simplify  findings  and  to  group 
similar  measures.  Any  no  in  the  table  means  the  measure  was 
not  mentioned  in  the  inteinriew  nor  observed  by  the 
researchers.  It  does  not  mean  the  industry  leaders  or  the 
Air  Force  do  not  use  these  measures  of  effectiveness. 

An  exeunple  of  a  comparison  between  industry  leaders  and 
the  Dover  AFB's  measures  of  effectiveness  of  air  cargo 
handling  operations  follows.  Federal  Express  uses  on-time 
departures  while  Dover  AFB  does  not.  DHL  uses  on-time 
arrivals  while  Dover  AFB  does  not.  Time  standards  for 
certain  tasks  are  used  both  by  Emery  Air  Freight  and 
Dover  AFB.  Burlington  Air  Express  uses  pieces  per  manhour 
as  one  measure  while  Dover  AFB  does  not.  Sort  completion 
time  is  used  by  Federal  Express  while  Dover  AFB  has  no 
similar  operation.  Airborne  Freight  uses  a  service  level 
while  Dover  AFB  does  not.  Finally,  on-time  pickups  and 


60 


cf02  j.vsjTjLss  AT9  used  by  UPSf  bub  Dover  AFB  has  no  siiai  lar 
function. 

As  evident  by  this  example,  there  are  many  differences 
between  how  the  Air  Force  and  air  cargo  industry  leaders 
measure  the  effectiveness  of  their  air  cargo  handling 
operations.  Again,  the  differing  missions /goals  of  the 
various  organizations  make  different  measures  a  necessity. 
Because  the  measures  are  so  different,  finding  a  best 
practice  is  not  possible.  Neither  positive,  negative,  nor 
parity  gaps  exist. 

The  findings  of  the  research  study  are  presented  and 
analyzed  through  an  examination  of  each  investigative 
question.  It  is  important  to  note  that  detailed 
descriptions  of  observations  and  interviews  are  provided  in 
the  appendices,  while  summarization  of  these  findings  are 
depicted  using  cross-classification  t6Ut}les  presented 
throughout  this  chapter.  Table  13  svunmarizes  all  the 
findings. 

Based  upon  the  literature  and  information  from  Air 
Mobility  Command,  six  air  cargo  carriers  and  one  Air  Force 
aerial  port  are  identified  as  benchmark  cases.  United 
Parcel  Service,  Federal  Express,  Emery  Air  Freight,  Airborne 
Freight,  DHL  Airways,  and  Burlington  Air  Express  are 
selected  as  the  six  air  cargo  industry  leaders,  while  the 


62 


13:  fiUmiART  OF  PIMDIHGS 


63 


436th  Aerial  Port  Squadron  at  Dover  AFB,  Delaware  is  chosen 
as  the  Air  Force  aerial  port  in  this  research  study. 

Following  the  selection  of  the  air  cargo  industry 
leaders  and  an  Air  Force  aerial  port,  the  literature  review 
and  responses  from  interviews  allowed  categorization  of  the 
air  cargo  industry  leaders  by  the  type  of  cargo  handled. 

UPS,  Federal  Express,  Airborne  Freight,  and  DHL  Airways 
specialize  in  handling  small  (express)  packages.  Emery  Air 
Freight  and  Burlington  Air  Express  specialize  in  moving 
large  (heavy  weight)  cargo. 

Analysis  of  the  observations  conducted  by  the 
researchers  revealed  that  it  is  possible  for  the  Air  Force 
to  learn  from  the  air  cargo  industry  leaders’  day-to-day 
operations.  Four  categories  of  observation  (cargo  handling 
equipment,  intransit  visibility,  operations  interface,  and 
safety)  are  selected  and  identified  as  areas  of  interest  to 
the  Air  Force.  Observations  in  these  four  areas  at  each 
commercial  air  cargo  carrier  revealed  specific  examples  from 
which  the  Air  Force  can  learn. 

Analysis  of  responses  to  interviews  conducted  with  the 
air  cargo  industry  leaders  and  Dover  AFB  reveals  differences 
between  how  the  Air  Force  and  air  cargo  industry  leaders 
plan  for  surges.  These  differences  are  so  great  that 
selection  of  a  best  practice  is  not  possible.  Neither  a 
positive,  negative,  nor  parity  gap  exists. 

Interview  questions  and  the  researchers'  experience 
were  used  to  analyze  differences  between  the  Air  Force  and 


64 


industry  leaders'  cargo  handling  equipment  and  personnel 
requirements  during  surge  periods.  This  analysis  resulted 
in  a  parity  gap  with  respect  to  changes  in  cargo  handling 
equipownt.  Although  there  are  slight  differences  in  how  air 
cargo  handling  equipment  changes  to  accommodate  increased 
workloads,  the  outcome  or  result  for  supporting  the 
ccmsMrcial  air  cargo  operations  during  a  surge  period  is 
similar  to  that  of  the  Air  Force.  In  contrast,  there  are 
vast  differences  in  how  the  air  cargo  industry  leaders  and 
the  Air  Force  respond  to  changes  in  personnel  requirements. 
Therefore,  selection  of  a  single  best  practice  for  acquiring 
personnel  during  surge  periods  is  not  possible. 

An  analysis  of  interviews  and  researchers'  experience 
depicts  several  differences  between  how  the  Air  Force  and 
air  cargo  industry  leaders  measure  effectiveness  of  air 
cargo  handling  operations.  However,  due  to  the  vastly 
different  missions /goals,  selection  of  a  best  practice  in 
measuring  effectiveness  is  not  possible.  Again,  neither  the 
industry  leaders  nor  the  Air  Force  have  the  best 
iMasurements;  each  measure  the  effectiveness  of  their  air 
cargo  handling  operations  based  upon  the  type  of 
mission/goal  of  the  organization. 

The  findings  and  analysis  of  this  research  study  aid  in 
answering  the  investigative  questions.  The  next  chapter 
provides  conclusions  of  this  study  and  recommends  further 
studies  and  research. 


!£.  Concluaions  and  Recoamendations 


OwmrrLmi 

A  case  study  approach  was  used  to  benchnark  practices 
of  air  cargo  carriers.  Limitations  of  this  study, 
conclusions,  recosmendations  for  iaqalementation,  and 
recoanendations  for  future  research  are  included  in  this 
chapter. 

Lisdtations 

Due  to  the  "ground-breedcing”  character  of  this  study, 
limitations  in  the  observations  and  interviews,  along  with 
various  time  constraints,  emerged.  First,  the  researchers' 
observations  of  the  air  cargo  carriers  and  the  aerial  port 
were  of  a  general,  all-encoo^assing  nature.  After  all 
observations  were  made,  the  reseeurchers  categorized 
observations  into  nine  general  areas.  Summaries  of 
observations  using  the  nine  general  areas  are  included  in 
Appendices  D  through  J.  Since  the  actual  observations  were 
conducted  prior  to  identifying  the  nine  categories,  some 
areas  may  have  been  given  more  attention  than  others. 

A  second  limitation  became  evident  when  analyzing  the 
responses  to  the  interview  questions.  The  researchers 
interviewed  only  one  person  (or  very  few  people)  at  each 
coiiq>any  and  the  aerial  port.  Depending  on  their  position 
within  the  organization,  some  of  the  interviewees  had 
different  operational  experience  levels  than  others. 


66 


Rssponstts  w«re  generally  eade  based  upon  the  interviewee's 
experience  in  the  air  cargo  industry,  and  may  not  reflect 
every  aspect  of  the  organization's  practices  or  views.  In 
addition,  many  of  the  respondents  had  different 
interpretations  of  a  surge  period.  Although  a  definition 
was  provided  upon  request,  the  responses  to  the  interview 
questions  revealed  that  a  surge  by  one  respondent  iBq>lied  a 
unique  period  of  time  (i.e.  Christmas),  whereas  other 
interview  respondents  based  their  responses  on  daily/nightly 
fluctuations  in  workloads. 

Finally,  time  was  a  limitation  in  the  observations, 
interviews,  and  the  entire  research  effort.  It  was  not 
possible  to  obtain  feedback  from  the  air  cargo  carriers  and 
the  aerial  port  concerning  the  observations  and  para-phrased 
responses  to  the  interviews.  In  addition,  there  was  not 
enough  time  available  to  conduct  an  in-depth  study  typically 
required  in  case  studies. 

Conclusions 

The  research  question  for  this  study  is  "What  can  the 
Air  Force  learn  from  air  cargo  industry  leaders  to  improve 
the  peacetime  and  wartime  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of 
moving  cargo  through  air  freight  terminals?".  By 
implementing  a  case  study  methodology  in  this  research 
effort,  this  study  shows  that  the  Air  Force  can  learn  from 
observing  the  air  cargo  carriers.  Cargo  handling  equipment. 


67 


Intransit  visibility,  operations  interface,  and  safety  are 
four  areas  frc»  which  the  Air  Force  can  learn. 

This  research  reveals  that  air  cargo  industry  leaders 
are  just  beginning  to  move  large  (heavy)  freight.  Based 
upon  observations  and  the  researcher's  knowledge  of  Air 
Force  air  cargo  operations,  it  is  evident  that  the  Air 
Force's  ability  to  handle  large  cargo  is  superior  to  that  of 
the  coamiercial  air  cargo  carriers. 

In  addition,  requirements  for  intransit  visibility  of 
cargo  moved  by  the  commercial  air  cargo  carriers  was 
different  than  the  Air  Force.  The  capability  of  the  Air 
Force  to  track  cargo  throughout  the  airlift  system  is  not 
much  different  from  the  air  cargo  carriers.  However,  much 
of  the  cargo  moved  by  the  commercial  carriers  is  delivered 
within  one  or  two  days;  hence,  the  demand  to  continually 
trace  the  cargo  over  a  long  period  of  time  is  limited.  The 
Air  Force,  on  the  other  hand,  may  have  cargo  awaiting 
airlift  for  several  days  or  weeks  depending  on  mission 
requirements.  Thus,  the  demands  by  customers  to  continually 
identify  the  whereabouts  of  their  cargo  differs  between  the 
commercial  air  cargo  carriers  and  the  Air  Force . 

Finally,  most  of  the  interview  questions  focused  on 
surge  planning  euid  operations.  However,  the  mission  of  the 
Air  Force  and  the  goals  of  the  air  cargo  industry  leaders 
are  so  different  that  industry  leader  practices  in  these 
areas  cannot  effectively  be  applied  to  the  Air  Force. 


68 


IteooHMadatloM 

Based  on  the  findings  outlined  in  Chapter  IV  and  the 
appendices,  several  reconmendations  are  posed  by  the 
researchers.  The  recc^nendations  are  divided  into  two 
categories.  First,  the  researchers  recosmiend  specific  items 
for  implementation  in  Air  Force  air  cargo  operations  and, 
second,  several  possibilities  are  recommended  for  future 
research. 

Recommendations  for  Iiqplemsntatlon.  Although  the 
Squadron  Operations  Officer  at  Dover's  aerial  port  stated 
that  pallet  dollies  were  not  practical  due  to  the  amount  of 
manpower  required,  a  thorough  investigation  and  a  long-term 
teat  of  a  container  and  pallet  dolly  systems  at  one  of  the 
strategic  aerial  ports  is  recommended.  This  test  should  be 
a  "stand  alone"  test  and  not  in  conjunction  with  using  the 
463L  system  of  pallets,  forklifts,  and  K-loaders.  It  is 
suggested  that  the  test  first  be  used  on  commercial  aircraft 
with  TA-40s;  then,  if  successful,  use  on  military  aircraft 
should  be  tested.  Customized  containers  with  proper 
gravitational  force  restraint  criteria  for  military  aircraft 
accoB^lishing  wartime  maneuvers  should  be  developed  for  this 
test.  (Commercial  containers  should  first  be  studied  to 
determine  if  they  meet  the  restraint  criteria  and  can  be 
integrated  with  the  Air  Force's  463L  system).  Also,  see- 
through  containers,  secure  containers,  and  collapsible 
containers  should  be  developed  and  tested  for  use  in  the 
Department  of  Defense.  Although  the  collapsible  container 


69 


used  by  UPS  is  a  good  idea,  the  design  of  the  container 
would  not  suit  the  Air  Force's  mission  requirements. 

Next,  the  Air  Force  should  continue  to  support 
intransit  visibility  systems  currently  in  use,  such  as  the 
Cargo  Movement  Operations  System  (CMOS)  and  the 
development  of  Radio  Frequency  IDentification  systems  (RFID) 
to  track  aircraft  parts  (76).  Technological  advances  used 
by  coasBercial  air  cargo  cairriers  and  other  industries  should 
be  monitored.  For  example.  Federal  Express  is  continuously 
developing  new  technology  to  inqprove  intransit  visibility  of 
cargo  shipments.  These  developments  include  studying  the 
possibility  of  barcoding  their  containers  or  using  radio 
frequency  tags  and  transmitters  to  monitor  the  cargo  within 
their  freight  facility. 

Third,  several  safety  practices  are  recommended  for 
implementation  during  all  cargo  handling  operations. 

Lifting  belts  (similar  to  weight-lifting  belts)  should  be 
worn  by  all  personnel  handling  cargo.  The  researchers 
recommend  having  a  strip  of  reflective  tape  sewn  on  the 
lifting  belts,  so  the  belts  can  serve  two  purposes — a  back 
support  and  a  reflective  belt  for  nighttime  operations.  Of 
course,  when  outer-garments  are  worn  (i.e.  cold  weather 
gear),  other  reflective  gear  should  be  used. 

Finally,  similar  to  UPS'  marked  walkways  for 
pedestrians,  the  researchers  recommend  Air  Force  aerial 
ports  consider  painting  walkways  to  improve  safety  within 
the  work  environment.  These  walkways  can  easily  be  painted 


70 


onto  the  paveii»nt  in  cargo  handling  areas  and  between  work 
areas  or  aerial  port  facilities. 

ReeoMMadatlons  for  Future  Research.  Several 
opportunities  exist  to  study  other  areas  related  to  this 
research  effort.  The  researchers  detemined  that  observing 
and  studying  other  air  cargo  operations  stimulates  new  ideas 
which  have  the  potential  to  ia^rove  various  aspects  of  Air 
Force  operations.  In  this  light,  the  following  are  four 
areas  recommended  for  future  study: 

1)  Similar  studies  should  be  conducted  on  passenger 
airlines  that  carry  cargo.  Since  the  Air  Force  moves 
passengers  (troops)  on  many  of  its  airlift  missions, 
research  in  this  area  may  reveal  other  methods  to  improve 
the  Air  Force's  air  cargo  operation.  The  demands  and 
limitations  when  moving  passengers  with  cargo  often  pose 
great  challenges  to  the  Air  Force  aerial  ports. 

2)  An  in-depth  case  study  of  one  specific  air  cargo 
carrier  or  passenger /cargo  airline  should  be  conducted. 

Since  time  was  a  major  limitation  in  studying  the  six  air 
cargo  carriers,  research  on  one  company  may  allow  more  time 
for  a  detailed  study.  In  addition,  future  researchers 
should  choose  specific  areas  of  observation,  e.g.  cargo 
handling  equipment,  operations  interface,  intransit 
visibility,  and  safety. 

3)  The  operations  used  by  the  United  States  Postal 
Service  are  recommended  for  study.  The  researchers  found 
that  some  of  the  technology  and  practices  used  by  the  US 


71 


Post  Office  were  adopted  by  the  commercial  air  cargo 
carriers  that  were  covered  in  this  study. 

4)  The  movement  of  hazardous  cargo  (to  include 
explosives)  by  commercial  cargo  carriers  (air  or  surface 
carriers)  should  be  studied.  Since  Air  Force  aerial  ports 
and  transportation  squadrons  move  hazardous  cargo  on  a  daily 
basis,  research  in  this  area  would  be  extremely  valuedale. 


Summary 

This  chapter  provides  conclusions  and  recommendations 
of  this  research  effort  using  a  case  study  approach  to 
benchmark  the  air  cargo  industry  leaders.  The  researchers 
found  that  the  Air  Force  handles  large  cargo  more 
effectively  than  commercial  air  cargo  industry  leaders; 
however,  the  Air  Force  can  learn  from  the  commercial  air 
cargo  carriers  by  observing  their  operations.  Cargo 
handling  equipment,  operations  interface,  intransit 
visibility,  and  safety  can  be  improved  by  adopting  some  of 
the  industry  leaders'  practices. 


72 


ivesti 


Appendix  A:  In 


.qative  Study  Ouestiona  for  the  Air  Force 


These  questions  were  asked  of  the  air  cargo  managers  at  Air 
Mobility  Command/  Scott  AFB/  Illinois  in  an  investigative 
study  to  narrow  the  focus  of  the  research. 


1 .  When  planning  for  contingencies ,  does  the  Air  Force  use 
standing  rental  agreements  or  Contingency  Standing  Route 
Orders  (CSROs)  to  increase  vehicle  and  equipment  capability? 

-  If  so,  are  these  handled  at  the  Air  Force,  MAJCOM, 
or  wing  level? 

2.  How  do  you  measure  our  performance  during  contingencies? 

3.  Do  any  of  the  major  (strategic)  aerial  ports  have 
automated  cargo  handling  equipment  such  as  automated  storage 
and  retrieval  systems  or  conveyors? 

4.  Have  you  ever  heard  of  third  party  warehousing?  Is 
there  any  such  operation  in  the  Air  Force? 

5.  Is  there  a  current  study  to  determine  the  feasibility  of 
using  containers /conexes  for  the  movement  of  general  cargo 
during  peacetime  or  wartime? 

6.  Has  the  Air  Force  ever  considered  using  Commercial  Off- 
the-Shelf  (COTS)  systems  for  tracking  cargo? 

7.  If  you  could  ask  a  civilian  cargo  company  any  question, 
what  would  you  ask?  Who  would  you  ask  and  why? 

8.  What  is  the  status  of  the  60K  loader? 

9.  Do  the  Airlift  Clearance  Authorities  (ACAs)  in  the  CONUS 
work  the  same  as  the  ACAs  overseas? 


Appendix  B 


Pilot  Study  Questions  for  the 
Air  Cargo  Industry 


These  questions  were  asked  of  the  hub  manager  at  Airborne 
Express  in  Wilmington,  Ohio  in  a  pilot  study  to  narrow  the 
focus  of  the  study. 


1.  What  is  the  organizational  structure  of  Airborne 
Express? 

2.  What  kind  of  cargo  handling  equipment  is  used  in  your 
hub  operations? 

3.  What  kind  of  cargo  tracking  system  is  used  in  your 
nation-wide  operations? 

4.  How  many  personnel  work  in  your  hub  and  what  kinds  of 
shifts  do  they  work? 

5.  How  many  aircraft  per  day  are  handled?  How  quickly  is 
an  aircraft  downloaded  and  uploaded? 

6.  Who  are  your  major  competitors? 


74 


Appendix  C;  Interview  Oueations 


These  questions  were  asked  of  all  cargo  industry  leader 
operational  managers  and  of  the  aerial  port  operations 
officer  at  Dover  AFB,  Delaware. 


1.  What  type  of  cargo  do  you  specialize  in  handling  and 
what  other  types  of  cargo  do  you  handle? 

2.  Do  you  have  written  procedures  in  place  for  surge 
periods?  If  so,  are  these  coo^any-wide  (Air  Force  wide), 
regional,  or  local? 

Clarifying  definition:  Surge  is  defined  as  "to  rise 
suddenly  to  an  excessive  or  abnormal  level". 

3.  Bow  often  are  your  surge  plans  updated  and  do  you  ever 
test  your  plans? 

Clarifying  definition:  Test  is  defined  as  "a  critical 
examination,  observation,  or  evaluation". 

4.  What  effects  do  surges  have  on  your  cargo  handling 
equipment? 

5.  If  extra  equipment  is  needed,  do  you  obtain  it  through 
in*^house  resources  or  by  contract?  Do  you  go  through 
company-wide  (Air  Force  wide),  regional,  or  local  channels? 

6.  During  surge  periods,  how  do  your  personnel  levels 
change? 

7.  Do  you  go  through  company-wide  (Air  Force  wide), 
regional,  or  local  channels  to  get  additional  personnel? 

Are  they  hired  as  part-time  or  full-time? 

8.  How  do  you  train  these  additional  employees  and  is  there 
a  learning  curve  associated  with  this  training? 

9.  How  do  you  measure  the  effectiveness  of  your  day-to-day 
(peacetime)  cargo  handling  operations? 

10.  How  do  you  measure  the  effectiveness  of  your  cargo 
handling  operations  during  surges  ( contingencies /war ) ? 


75 


Observation 


Batting 

The  Louisville,  KY  airport,  Standiford  Field,  was  the 
setting  of  a  June  1993  tour  of  United  Parcel  Service's  (UPS) 
daytime,  second  day  air,  hub  operations.  During  the  day, 
between  20  and  25  aircraft  transit  the  hub,  while  65  to  70 
aircraft  2u:rive  and  depart  the  hub  during  nighttime 
operations.  The  nighttime  operations  were  not  observed. 

UPS  has  several  buildings  connected  together  to  form 
their  package  sorting  facility.  This  facility  was  very 
clean,  but  was  not  very  well  lit  inside.  A  large  aircraft 
parking  reunp  surrounds  the  UPS  complex  at  the  airport.  At 
one  edge  of  the  parking  rcunp  was  a  parking  area  for  all 
aircraft  cargo  handling  equipment  and  other  support 
equipment . 

The  most  unique  part  of  UPS'  operation,  compared  to  the 
other  carriers  observed,  is  that  the  hub  relies  heavily  on 
its  trucking  interface.  UPS  calls  the  large  tractor- 
trailers  that  interface  at  their  hub  their  "feeders"  because 
these  trucks  "feed"  the  majority  of  the  cargo  into  the  air 
system. 

Cargo  Handling  Equipment 

Small  packages  that  arrive  at  the  sort  facility  are  fed 
into  the  facility  from  either  a  feeder  truck  or  from  an 


76 


incoming  cargo  container.  The  cargo  containers  are 
fiberglass  airline  cargo  containers  that  are  contoured  to 
the  shape  of  the  aircraft.  The  containers  have  two  doors  on 
one  side  that  open  outward  and  provide  an  area  for 
loading/unloading  cargo  that  is  about  half  as  wide  as  the 
container . 

UPS  is  testing  a  new  type  of  container  that  is  made  of 
a  clear,  see-through  material.  These  new  containers  are 
shaped  and  function  just  like  the  old  containers  but  allow 
people  to  see  if  cargo  space  is  available  in  a  partially 
loaded  container  without  having  to  open  the  door. 

UPS  has  a  unique  collapsible  container  that  is  used  in 
places  that  either  cannot  store  containers  or  that  have  a 
high  theft  rate  for  their  containers.  These  containers  are 
made  of  corrugated  cardboard  covered  with  a  plastic-type 
coating.  The  shape  of  these  containers  is  maintained  with 
small  pieces  of  wood  that  support  the  sides  and  top  of  the 
containers.  UPS  claims  that  one  container  can  be  used  seven 
to  ten  times  before  becoming  unserviceable.  Once  this 
container  is  not  useable,  it  is  recycled  and  materials  are 
used  for  a  new  container. 

Dollies  (or  what  the  Air  Force  calls  pallet  dollies) 
are  used  to  move  cargo  containers  from  the  sort  facility  to 
the  aircraft  and  vice  versa.  Tugs  are  used  to  transport  the 
dollies. 

As  mentioned  earlier,  the  sort  facility  has  conveyors 
that  move  cargo  through  the  sorting  process.  These 


77 


conveyors  moved  very  quickly.  Cairgo  that  was  considered  too 
large  for  the  sort  facility  never  reached  the  conveyors; 
instead,  the  large  cargo  was  sent  to  a  separate  area  known 
as  the  air  cargo  area  where  it  was  palletized. 

Forklifts  were  used  in  the  air  cargo  area  to  move  cargo 
pallets.  The  pallets  were  aluminum  airline  pallets  ("cookie 
sheets")  like  those  used  by  many  of  the  other  carriers.  The 
actions  observed  in  this  area  are  further  explained  in  the 
large  cargo  handling  section  of  this  observation. 

Finally,  K'-loaders  were  used  to  load  containers  and 
pallets  onto  the  aircraft.  Containers  and  pallets  are 
pushed  from  the  dollies  onto  the  K-loader  which  has 
rollerized  flooring.  Then,  two  containers  or  pallets  can  be 
raised  to  the  main  deck  of  the  aircraft  for  loading. 

Aircraft 

All  of  UPS'  aircraft  are  maintained  by  UPS  employees, 
with  the  majority  of  the  maintenance  being  performed  at 
their  main  hub  in  Louisville.  UPS  has  the  following  number 
and  type  of  aircraft: 


52 

727s 

30 

757s 

49 

DC-8S 

11 

747s 

Ssuill  Package  Sort 

Both  feeder  trucks  and  incoming  containers  arrive  at 
the  sort  facility  and  are  unloaded  by  sort  personnel  and 
placed  onto  the  conveyor  system.  The  cargo  is  first  sorted 


78 


by  zip  codes  and  states  (which  are  ii»iiiorized  by  the  primary 
sort  personnel).  Eventually,  all  cargo  is  sorted  by  a  three 
letter  airport  code,  then  loaded  into  outgoing  cargo 
containers.  Cargo  that  is  small  enough  to  fit  into  a 
container,  but  may  damage  the  conveyor  system,  is  sorted 
manually  and  placed  into  an  outbound  container. 

Large  Cargo  Himdling 

Cargo  that  weighs  over  250  pounds  is  considered  "air 
c2u:go”  and  is  not  hemdled  in  the  sort  facility.  The  air 
cargo  building  handles  any  size  shipments;  none  of  the  cargo 
is  moved  by  contracted  means. 

Air  cargo  is  placed  on  aircraft  cargo  pallets,  then 
covered  with  plastic  and  airline  cargo  nets  which,  in 
comparison  to  nets  used  by  the  Air  Force,  are  thin  and  rope¬ 
like.  After  cargo  is  covered  with  the  plastic  and  nets,  the 
pallet  is  picked  up  by  forklift  and  placed  on  a  dolly.  No 
dunnage  was  used  under  the  pallets  while  they  were  being 
built;  the  pallets  were  placed  directly  on  the  floor.  A 
worker  was  observed  making  many  attempts  to  pick  up  a  pallet 
from  the  floor.  Outside  of  the  air  cargo  building,  pallets 
were  stacked  on  top  of  each  other,  and  the  majority  of 
useable  pallets  visible  were  warped. 

UPS  has  the  capability  of  "marrying"  pallets  together 
for  extremely  large  loads.  These  coupled  pallets  were 
transported  to  the  aircraft  with  large  dollies,  similar  to 
the  single-sized  dolly. 


79 


■■ployMS 

Like  all  of  the  air  c2u:go  carriers  observed,  UPS' 
en^loyees  who  sort  and  load/unload  cargo  are  part-time 
workers.  Most  of  the  workers  observed  were  young  adults, 
both  male  and  female. 

Intruisit  Visibility 

All  of  the  packages  sorted  at  the  hub  had,  as  a 
minimum,  one  barcoded  label.  Many  customers  placed  their 
own  barcoded  labels  on  packages  for  their  internal  use. 

While  each  label  was  visually  inspected  for  the  proper  zip 
code,  state,  and  three  letter  airport  code,  scanning  of  the 
barcodes  was  not  observed  at  the  Louisville  hub. 

Since  UPS  heavily  advertises  their  Total  Track  system, 
the  observers  asked  how  that  service  was  given  intransit 
visibility.  Apparently,  if  the  Total  Track  service  is 
purchased  by  a  customer,  that  cargo  is  scanned  upon  reaching 
and  leaving  the  sort  facility. 

(^rations  Interface 

The  load  planners  at  UPS  were  not  located  near  the  area 
where  cargo  containers  or  cargo  pallets  were  filled  with 
cargo.  Instead,  after  a  container  or  pallet  was  weighed, 
the  weight  and  identification  numbers  were  put  into  a 
computer.  Then,  load  planners  would  use  that  information  to 
create  load  plans  for  each  aircraft.  One  load  planner  could 
load  plan  several  different  aircraft  on  a  given  shift.  The 


80 


load  planning  personnel  had  radio  contact  with  the  load 
teaoui  who  were  actually  loading  the  cargo. 

UPS'  Ranp  Control  Center  (RCC)  was  used  to  coordinate 
all  functions  of  the  hub  operations.  Representatives  from 
maintenance,  refueling,  and  the  cargo  load  teams  were 
present  in  the  RCC.  Video  cameras  were  used  for  viewing  all 
of  the  aircraft  parking  ras^s  and  monitoring  operations. 

All  personnel  within  the  RCC  used  radios  to  coordinate 
functions  for  their  particular  area,  and  one  manager  was  in 
charge  of  the  RCC  and  responsible  for  all  decision  oiaking. 
This  function  is  similar  to  the  consolidated  command  post 
concept  prevalent  in  the  Air  Force. 

Safety 

Clothing  and  protective  gear  are  important  part  of 
employee  safety.  Employees  did  not  have  a  uniform  or  any 
apparent  dress  code  but  were  required  to  wear  sturdy  boots. 
Leather  cargo  gloves  were  optional  for  everyone.  No  lifting 
belts  were  observed  on  any  employee.  Hearing  protection  was 
optional  for  workers  inside  of  the  sort  buildings  and  was 
mandatory  for  workers  on  the  aircraft  parking  ramps.  Since 
nighttime  operations  were  not  observed,  effectiveness  of 
outside  lighting  and  reflective  gear  on  employees  was  not 
observed. 

UPS  had  clearly  marked  pathways  for  walking,  and  all 
vehicles  were  observed  yielding  to  personnel  on  the 


81 


pathways.  Also,  all  vehicles  observed  driving  through  the 
sort  facility  and  on  the  ramp  were  operated  safely. 

Interview 


Title  of  person (s)  interviewed t  Hub  Manager,  Second  Day  Air 

District  Customer 
Service,  Area  Manager 

District  Customer 
Service,  Air  Cargo 

Note:  Three  different  people  were  present  during  this 
interview.  Bach  individual  answered  the  questions  from  the 
perspective  of  his/her  area  of  responsibility.  During  the 
interview,  some  of  the  answers  given  by  the  respondents 
pertained  to  different  questions;  thus,  the  researchers 
integrated  all  three  of  the  interviewee's  responses  and 
placed  the  response(s)  with  the  appropriate  question. 


1.  Mhat  type  of  cargo  do  you  specialise  ih  handling  and 
what  other  types  of  cargo  do  you  handle? 

UPS  specializes  in  handling  small  packages. 
However,  all  types  of  cargo,  except  dangerous 
goods  (i.e  hazardous  materials  and  explosives)  and 
automobiles  (however,  new  automobiles  are 
allowed),  are  moved  by  UPS. 

The  Hub  Manager  of  Second  Day  Air  stated  his 
portion  of  UPS'  operation  specializes  in  ssiall 
packages  that  weigh  less  than  70  pounds.  In 
addition  to  small  packages,  UPS  has  an  Air  Cargo 
Service  section  that  handles  cargo  (large  freight) 
that  may  weigh  between  70  and  8,000  pounds. 

However,  the  weight  limitations  for  large  freight 


82 


are  based  on  the  capability  of  aircraft  used  to 
move  the  cargo. 

Large  freight  includes  food  products, 
pharmaceuticals,  tires,  new  autos,  etc.  UPS  uses 
large  freight  as  "space  fillers"  or  to  fill 
positions  on  the  aircraft  on  a  space  availeUale 
basis— ‘the  goal  of  Air  Cargo  Service  is  to  fully 
utilize  each  aircraft  lane  segment.  The  Air  Cargo 
Service  section's  customers  are  freight  forwarders 
who  consolidate  multiple  shipments  and  use  UPS  to 
move  these  shipments.  The  freight  forwarders 
sell  the  positions  (in  most  cases,  8,000  pounds 
are  allowed  for  each  aircraft  position)  to 
corporate  customers,  or  the  general  public,  and 
UPS  will  use  its  large  aircraft  to  move  the  cargo. 
The  Air  Cargo  Service  section  has  a  coo^uterized 
system  that  is  linked  to  over  80  gateways 
(airports  with  UPS  service)  that  can  input 
expected  allocation  for  movements  out  of  the 
gateway.  This  information,  which  can  be  adjusted 
daily,  is  used  as  a  guideline  to  determine  how 
many  positions  are  availeUsle  to  move  large  freight 
from  each  gateway.  Within  the  last  few  years,  the 
demand  for  moving  large  freight  has  increased  and 
UPS  has  taken  advantage  of  this  niche  in  the 
market. 


83 


2.  Do  you  havo  wrlttan  procaduras  In  placa  for  surga 
parlods?  If  so,  ara  thasa  co^panj-wlda,  ragional,  or  local? 

Yes,  UPS'  written  procedures  for  surge 
periods  are  called  "peak  plans".  UPS  considers 
December  its  peak  period  for  the  majority  of  its 
cargo,  with  planning  at  the  corporate  level 
beginning  in  January  ( 12  months  in  advance ) . 

However,  Air  Cargo  Service  (large  freight) 
experiences  a  different  peak  period  during  the 
months  of  June  through  October.  In  addition  to 
the  Christmas  peak  period,  UPS  also  has  other 
surge  periods  such  as  Mother's  Day  and  Easter. 

The  development  of  these  peak  plans  is  a  continual 
process  that  begins  with  a  national  plan  that 
filters  down  to  each  region  and  then  each  district 
(local  area).  The  plans  are  customized  to  fit  the 
purposes  of  each  district  and  are  written  to 
accommodate  all  conceivable  contingencies  or 
problems . 

Operational  personnel  begin  their  planning  in 
August.  These  operational  plans  are  very  detailed 
and  include  forecasts  for  the  number  of  people 
required  for  the  peak  period  and  how  much  volume 
UPS  anticipates  to  handle  during  the  surge.  The 
forecasts  of  personnel  and  volume  are  developed  in 
conjunction  with  personnel  from  Marketing  and 
Industrial  Engineering  with  a  goal  to  be  within 


84 


five  percent  of  the  actual  number  of  people  hired 
and  actual  volxune  handled  during  the  peak. 

Several  reviews  of  the  operational  portion  of  the 
plans  are  accomplished  with  the  district  manager 
and  his  superior  attending  the  review  meetings. 

Over  the  past  two  months,  UPS  has  experienced 
some  unanticipated  surges.  These  unanticipated 
surges  were  handled  by  lengthening  the  sort  period 
(the  amount  of  time  required  to  sort  packages 
within  the  hub)  and  hiring  more  people. 

In  addition  to  peak  plans,  UPS  also  has  "cut 
back  plans"  that  plan  for  periods  where  there  are 
decreases  in  workload  ( the  opposite  of  surges ) . 

UPS  attempts  to  accommodate  these  decreases  in 
workload  without  laying  off  any  employees. 

3.  Bow  often  are  your  surge  plans  updated  and  do  you  ever 
test  your  plans? 

Peak  plans  are  incrementally  updated  every 
month,  week,  and  day  as  the  December  peak  period 
approaches.  From  August  through  October,  the  peak 
plans  are  updated  on  a  monthly  basis.  During 
November,  the  plans  are  updated  every  week.  Iii 
the  month  of  December,  the  plans  are  updated  every 
day. 

UPS  will  test  the  plan  two  weeks  prior  to  the 
scheduled  peak  period  (December  for  small  packages). 
The  workload  estimated  in  the  peak  plan  is  tested  by 


85 


increasing  the  manpower  (and  equipment,  if  necessary) 
within  the  sort  facility  to  the  level  anticipated  in 
the  peak  plan.  For  example,  the  plems  may  call  for  a 
specified  number  of  pieces  of  cargo  to  be  processed 
through  the  sort.  In  order  to  test  the  capability  of 
the  hub  to  process  this  specified  amount  of  cargo,  the 
operational  managers  will  increase  the  number  of 
employees  within  the  hub  facility  to  accommodate  the 
increase  in  workload.  The  test  helps  to  determine  if 
there  are  any  "pinch  points"  or  flow  problems  that  need 
to  be  worked  out  and  if  there  are  any  additional 
changes  that  need  to  be  made  before  the  actual  surge 
period. 

Related  to  the  operational  test,  adjustments 
to  plans  are  likely  to  occur.  For  example,  an 
account  executive  may  have  planned  for  a  specific 
increase  in  an  account  (corporate  customer)  and 
this,  in  turn,  necessitates  an  increase  in  the 
number  of  employees  required  within  the  sort  to 
handle  the  additional  workload.  As  the  peak 
period  approaches,  the  account  executive  may  have 
a  more  accurate  estimate  on  the  actual  customer 
requirements.  Thus,  the  plan  is  updated  to 
reflect  this  new  estimate. 


86 


4.  Mhat  affacts  do  surgaa  hara  on  your  cargo  handling 
aqulpMnt? 

If  there  is  a  "true"  surge  (versus  a 
temporary  surge  period  that  lasts  for  a  few 
weeks ) ,  there  is  an  increase  in  the  amount  of 
cargo  handling  equipment  needed  by  UPS  to  handle 
the  added  workload.  A  true  surge  implies  that  any 
increase  in  equipment  will  be  in  made  in 
proportion  to  the  increase  in  the  workload.  For 
exaiiq>le,  UPS  experienced  a  surge  period  two  months 
ago  and  was  uncertain  whether  or  not  the  surge  was 
permanent  or  temporary.  It  was  later  established 
that  the  added  workload  was  a  permanent  increase 
and  more  equipment  was  ordered,  more  people  were 
hired,  and  the  hub  facility  was  realigned. 

5.  If  extra  equipment  is  needed,  do  you  obtain  it  through 
in-house  resources  or  by  contract?  Do  you  go  through 
coeq>any-wide,  regional,  or  local  channels? 

UPS  uses  both  in-house  resources  and 
contracts  to  acquire  additional  equipment  when 
needed.  The  first  choice  is  to  acquire  equipment 
from  in-house  resources  and  then,  if  necessary, 
contract  out  for  additional  requirements.  For 
exeunple,  UPS  may  look  at  other  gateways  (airports) 
to  determine  if  there  is  any  equipment  not  being 
used  and  move  the  equipment,  if  required. 


87 


I£  additional  requirements  cannot  be 
satisfied  using  in-house  resources,  UPS  will  lease 
equipment.  For  exao^le,  during  surge  periods 
there  are  requirements  for  rollerized  equipment, 
and  UPS  will  lease  rollers  for  their  flatbed 
ground  feeders  (tractor  trailers)  if  there  are  not 
enough  of  these  rollerized  trailers  available  in- 
house.  In  addition,  UPS  will  lease  aircraft,  if 
necessary. 

J^proval  to  lease  additional  equipment  is 
contingent  upon  the  dollar  amount  of  the  contract 
requirement.  The  higher  the  monetary  value,  the 
higher  the  level  of  approval — specific  dollar 
amounts  require  either  local,  regional,  or 
corporate  approval .  A  proposal  for  additional 
equipment  may  originate  at  the  hub  and  a  committee 
evaluates  the  request  to  determine  the  best 
alternative.  A  committee  evaluates  proposals  at 
each  level  of  expenditure. 

The  Air  Cargo  Service  section  at  Louisville 
uses  outside  vendors  for  all  of  the  ground 
movement  of  cargo  (i.e.  large  freight  moved  to  the 
hub  facility) .  The  ground  feeders  used  to  move 
the  large  freight  to  the  Air  Cargo  warehouse 
facility  are  leased,  and  the  contracts  are 
negotiated  both  locally  and  nation-wide.  However, 
UPS  seldom  has  to  lease  additional  equipment  for 


88 


Air  Cargo  Services.  Since  the  Air  Cargo  Service 
experiences  a  peak  period  from  June  through 
October,  extra  equipment  required  within  the  Air 
Cargo  warehouse  facility  is  often  obtained  from 
the  small  package  sort  eurea  (since  their  peak  is 
in  December) .  This  reduces  the  requirement  to 
lease  equipment  used  within  the  Air  Cargo  Seirvice 
facility. 

Some  gateways  used  by  UPS  to  move  large 
freight  do  not  have  their  own  equipment.  For  the 
gateways  that  do  not  have  equipment  to  handle  air 
cargo  movements,  UPS  has  contracts  in-place  to 
lease  equipment  within  the  local  area  of  the 
gateway  to  move  large  freight  during  peak  periods. 

6.  During  surge  periods,  how  do  your  personnel  levels 
change? 

Personnel  levels  increase  in  proportion  to 
the  workload  levels.  Basically,  if  the  volume 
increases  by  20  percent,  the  manning  required  to 
handle  this  workload  increases  20  percent.  In 
addition,  if  the  volume  increases  by  50  percent, 
the  manning  increases  by  50  percent. 

UPS  will  "double-shift”  employees  to 
accommodate  increases  in  workload.  For  example, 
during  surge  periods,  e]iq)loyees  from  the  day  shift 
sort  may  volunteer  to  work  the  night  shift  if 
there  is  an  anticipated  increase  in  workload  for 


89 


the  nighttime  operation  (this  refers  to  part-time 
employees  who  work  in  the  sort  facility  and 
normally  work  a  four  hour  shift) . 

7.  Do  you  go  through  company-wide,  regional,  or  local 
channels  to  get  additional  personnel?  Are  they  hired  as 
part-time  or  full-time? 

Additional  personnel  required  to  work  during 
any  surge  periods  are  hired  through  the  Human 
Resources  Department  at  the  local  level.  In 
addition  to  personnel  hired  to  work  at  the  hub  in 
Louisville,  each  regional  hub  hires  personnel  from 
their  perspective  local  area  (i.e.  the  hub  in 
California  uses  their  Human  Resources  Department 
to  hire  from  within  California) . 

Depending  on  the  requirement,  additional 
personnel  may  be  hired  for  management  in  full-time 
or  part-time  positions.  However,  management 
positions  are  first  advertised  internally  within 
UPS  and,  if  the  necessary  expertise  cannot  be 
found,  personnel  from  outside  of  UPS  are  hired  to 
fill  these  management  positions.  Most  additional 
personnel  hired  to  work  within  the  sort  operation 
are  hired  as  part-time  workers. 

8.  How  do  you  train  these  additional  eiq^loyees  and  is  there 
a  learning  curve  associated  with  this  training? 

UPS'  training  progreun  is  modified  to 
accommodate  additional  employees  hired  to  work  in 


90 


the  small  package  sort  facility  for  the  peak 
period.  Since  these  employees  are  hired  for  a 
specific  amount  of  time,  they  do  not  learn  all 
facets  of  the  operations.  Instead,  they  are 
trained  specifically  for  the  job  they  will  perform 
during  the  peak  period.  UPS  has  training  packets 
for  personnel  hired  during  the  peak  period. 

The  Air  Cargo  Service  section  of  UPS  in 
Louisville  has  not  had  to  hire  part-time  enployees 
to  cover  any  surges  in  their  operation.  Since  the 
peak  period  for  Air  Cargo  is  longer  and  covers  a 
different  timeframe  than  the  peak  period  for  the 
small  package  sort  operation,  many  of  the 
employees  from  the  small  package  sort  will  work  in 
Air  Cargo  during  an  increase  in  workload.  In 
addition  to  using  employees  from  internal  sources 
to  work  large  freight,  the  Air  Cargo  section  will 
use  double  shifts,  if  necessary,  to  handle  any 
requirements  during  a  surge  period.  Normally, 
personnel  working  in  the  Air  Cargo  warehouse 
facility  receive  three  weeks  of  training. 

9.  Bow  do  you  SMasure  the  effectiveness  of  your  day-to-day 

cargo  handling  operations? 

UPS  measures  the  effectiveness  of  the  small 
package  sort  in  two  primary  areas,  cost  and 
service.  Cost  measures  are  based  upon  the  volume 
of  packages  handled  per  hour  (pieces/hour) .  All 


91 


work  is  masured  and  there  are  planned  times  for 
coaqpletion  of  the  work.  The  goal  is  for  the  sort 
to  be  within  five  percent  of  the  predicted 
performance  level  and  cost.  Service  measures  are 
based  on  the  amount  of  on-time  deliveries,  the 
number  of  packages  damaged,  and  other  service 
measures . 

The  personnel  within  Air  Cargo  Service 
section  (specifically  for  the  personnel  who  make 
reservations  for  large  freight  customers)  measure 
effectiveness  in  four  areas:  1)  service  failure 
frequency  or  the  number  of  positions  moved  versus 
what  was  booked  for  movement;  2)  service  level 
percent  effective  (i.e.  cost  of  phone  calls  of  the 
personnel  working  Air  Cargo  Service  reservations ) ; 
3)  cost  in  hours  per  position  moved;  and  4)  On- 
Job-Supervision  (OJS)  where  workers  are  observed 
and  feedback  is  given. 

10.  How  do  you  measure  the  effectiveness  of  your  cargo 

handling  operations  during  surges? 

The  same  day-to-day  effectiveness  measurements  are 
used  during  surge  periods. 


Appendix  B;  Federal  Express 


Observation 

Setting 

The  Federal  Express  (FedEx)  "superhub”  at  the  Memphis 
International  Airport  was  the  setting  of  a  June  1993  tour  of 
FedEx's  nighttime  hub  operations.  During  a  four  hour  window 
every  Monday  through  Friday  in  the  month  of  June,  an  average 
of  109  aircraft  arrived  and  departed  the  superhub. 

Several  large  interconnecting  buildings  with  six  input 
areas  form  the  sorting  facility.  The  lighting  inside  of  the 
sorting  facility  was  good,  and  the  work  areas  were  clean. 
However,  due  to  the  amount  of  equipment  and  vehicles 
constantly  moving  in  the  facility,  along  with  the  summertime 
heat,  the  work  areas  were  very  hot  and  congested.  Narrow 
driving  lanes  and  very  narrow  walk  paths  were  constantly  in 
use  by  tugs  pulling  pallet  dollies  and  various  other 
vehicles  and  people. 

The  outside  of  the  super hub  was  surrounded  by  a  very 
letrge  aircraft  parking  rai^>  which  was  lit  by  very  few  lights 
attached  to  buildings.  The  majority  of  the  light  shining  on 
the  aircraft  came  from  portable  light  carts.  This  left  the 
area  between  aircraft  very  dark. 

The  most  unique  features  of  the  superhub  are  the  "nose 
docks”  which  are  used  to  park  and  unload  aircraft.  Aircraft 
park  directly  next  to  these  docks,  then  the  crew  departs  and 


93 


the  offloading  and  onloading  of  cargo  begins.  These  docks 
eliainate  the  need  for  specialized  aircraft  loading 
equi{»nent  and  they  feed  cargo  directly  into  a  sorting 
facility.  Although  the  nose  docks  allow  for  fast 
onload/ off load  of  cargo,  there  are  only  a  few  nose  docks. 
Also,  the  conveyor  system  within  the  attached  sort  facility 
is  not  capable  of  handling  large  cargo. 

Besides  the  amount  of  aircraft  ramp  space  surrounding 
the  superhub,  the  amount  of  cargo  handling  equipment  and 
other  vehicles  was  iiiq>ressive.  FedEx  uses  very  large 
parking  lots  to  store  the  enormous  amounts  of  equipment  it 
uses  on  a  daily  basis. 

Cargo  Handling  EquipsMnt 

Like  many  of  the  other  air  cargo  carriers,  FedEx  uses 
tugs  to  pull  dollies  filled  with  cargo  containers.  Each 
dolly  can  hold  one  cargo  container  or  one  cargo  pallet. 
Compared  to  the  other  carriers,  FedEx  has  the  largest 
variety  of  cargo  containers.  They  have  many  different  size 
containers  to  fit  a  wide  variety  of  aircraft  types,  plus 
they  have  containers  that  fit  into  the  belly  coiiq>artments  of 
many  of  their  largest  aircraft.  Most  of  FedEx's  containers 
are  made  of  a  clear,  see-through  material  so  that  pairtially 
full  containers  are  easily  identified.  FedEx  still  uses 
some  of  the  typical,  white,  fiberglass  containers,  but  they 
are  transitioning  to  the  all  clear,  see-through  containers. 


FedEx  also  has  a  variety  of  doors  on  their  containers. 
The  containers  that  are  currently  being  purchased  have  a 
"door”  opening  that  is  about  half  the  width  of  the  container 
and  opens  outward  like  a  double  door.  Other  containers  have 
vinyl,  tarp-like  "door**  openings  through  which  cargo  is 
loaded  and  unloaded.  These  large  openings  allow  any  piece 
of  cargo  that  can  physically  fit  into  a  container  to  be 
placed  inside  of  the  container  without  wrestling  it  through 
a  small  door  opening. 

For  large  cargo  that  cannot  fit  into  a  container,  they 
use  aluminum,  airline  pallets.  The  large,  or  heavy  weight, 
cargo  is  placed  onto  the  pallet  and  covered  with  a  plastic 
sheet.  Then,  commercial  cargo  nets  made  of  a  thin,  rope*' 
like  material  are  used  to  provide  the  same  restraint  that  a 
container  would  give  to  a  similar  load  of  cargo.  Forklifts 
are  used  to  place  these  pallets  onto  dollies  for  transport 
to  aircraft  just  like  the  containers  are  transported. 

To  load  containers  or  pallets  onto  the  aircraft,  FedEx 
uses  different  size  K-loaders  depending  on  the  type  of 
aircraft  being  loaded.  Each  loader  has  a  rollerized 
flooring  on  which  containers  or  pallets  can  easily  be  pushed 
from  the  dollies.  Then,  two  containers  or  pallets  can  be 
raised  up  simultaneously  to  the  main  deck  of  the  aircraft 
for  loading. 


95 


Aircraft 

FedEx  has  a  fleet  of  455  aircraft,  varying  in  size  as 
listed  below.  Maintenance  for  their  fleet  of  aircraft  is 
accomplished  in-house  at  the  superhub. 


8 

MD-lls 

8 

B-747S 

30 

DC-lOs 

161 

B-727S 

216 

Cessna 

208s 

32 

Fokker 

F-27S 

Sauill  Package  Sort 

Like  all  other  air  cargo  carriers,  FedEx  sorts  its 
small  packages  several  times  with  the  help  of  very  fast 
moving  conveyor  belts.  As  soon  as  a  package  is  removed  from 
a  container,  its  barcoded  label  is  scanned.  Then,  if  the 
package  is  in  a  document  (letter)  package,  it  is  sorted  by 
hand  before  going  to  the  primary  sort  area  of  the  facility. 
In  the  primary  sort  area,  documents  are  sorted  by  the  region 
of  the  country  for  which  they  are  destined;  then,  the 
documents  move  on  conveyor  belts  to  the  secondary  sort  area. 

Small  boxes  are  primarily  sorted  by  a  regional  code 
that  is  manually  keyed  into  a  computer  by  a  technician. 

This  code  identifies  the  correct  diverter  to  send  the 
package  to  the  proper  secondary  belt.  Then  it  passes 
through  two  electric  eyes  (lasers)  that  measure  its  length 
to  trigger  a  diverter  to  push  the  package  down  the  proper 
slide  to  the  secondary  belt  at  the  right  time.  From  there, 
the  packages  move  on  a  conveyor  belt  to  the  secondary  sort 
area. 


96 


In  the  secondary  sort  area,  all  documents  and  small 
boxes  are  sorted  by  a  three  letter  airport  code.  After  this 
sort,  all  packages  move  by  conveyor  to  the  container  upload 
area.  In  this  area,  all  packages  are  manually  checked  by 
city,  state,  and  zip  code,  then  the  barcoded  label  is 
scanned  before  placing  the  package  into  a  container. 

Any  cargo  that  is  too  bulky  for  a  person  to  maneuver, 
or  that  has  rough  edges  that  can  damage  a  conveyor  belt,  is 
individually  moved  through  the  sort  process.  When  this 
cargo  arrives  at  the  container  loading  area,  it  is  handled 
the  same  way  other  cargo  is  handled. 

During  this  observation,  part  of  the  sorting  facility 
was  under  modification  for  a  semi-automated,  primairy  sort 
process  for  small  boxes.  Once  on-line,  this  process  will 
use  a  computer  to  scan  the  package  label  instead  of  a 
technician  keying  in  the  regional  code.  This  new  process 
should  save  a  lot  of  time  and  use  fewer  people. 

Large  Cargo  Handling 

Cargo  that  weighs  over  150  pounds  is  considered  large 
or  heavy  weight  cargo.  This  type  of  cargo  is  built  onto 
airline  cargo  pallets  in  a  separate  building  called  the 
heavy  weight  cargo  area.  Once  the  cargo  is  on  a  pallet  and 
covered  with  plastic  and  restraint  nets,  it  is  picked  up  by 
a  forklift  then  weighed  and  placed  on  a  dolly.  It  was 
observed  that  all  of  the  pallets  were  placed  on  wooden 


97 


dunnage  while  they  were  being  loaded  with  cargo.  This 
allowed  easy  access  for  the  forklift  to  pick  up  the  pallet. 

Observation  in  the  heavy  weight  area  showed  a  lot  of 
large  pallets  built  and  awaiting  airlift.  The  heavy  weight 
section  was  also  undergoing  an  expansion  project. 

Employees 

Like  all  of  the  air  cargo  carriers  observed,  FedEx's 
employees  who  sort  and  load/unload  cargo  are  part-time 
workers.  Both  male  and  female  workers  were  observed  in  all 
areas . 

Intransit  Visibility 

All  of  the  packages  sorted  at  the  hub  had,  as  a 
minimum,  one  barcoded  label.  Also,  many  customers  placed 
their  own  barcoded  laliels  on  packages  for  their  internal 
use. 

FedEx  was  the  only  carrier  observed  to  scan  the 
barcoded  labels  on  each  package  as  it  reached  the  superhub 
and  when  it  was  loaded  into  a  container  or  onto  a  pallet 
leaving  the  superhub.  Also,  they  are  researching  new 
technology  that  will  provide  more  intransit  visibility. 

In  the  future,  FedEx  will  either  barcode  each  container 
or  use  radio  frequency  tags  and  transmitters  to  track  the 
location  of  each  of  its  containers.  This  will  ensure  more 
visibility  over  its  cargo  than  they  currently  have. 


98 


<^rations  Intarfac* 

A  Systema  Control  section  tracks  all  aircraft  inbound 
to  the  superhub  and  outbound  from  the  superhub.  Federal 
Express'  Control  Room  controls  the  sorting  process  and 
monitors  package  flow  through  the  sorting  facilities.  Also, 
inbound  aircraft  arrivals  and  approximately  30  unloading 
teams  are  coordinated  by  the  control  room.  All  of  this  is 
accomplished  through  the  use  of  video  cameras,  coo^uters, 
and  hand-held  radios.  The  unloading  team  chiefs 
(supervisors)  carary  hand-held  con^uter  terminals  which  allow 
them  to  access  information  on  aircraft  arrivals,  load 
sequences,  and  various  other  types  of  information.  The 
supervisors  also  carry  hand-held  radios,  but  the  computer  is 
the  primary  source  of  information. 

Once  cargo  has  transited  the  sort  facility  and  is 
loaded  into  containers  or  onto  pallets,  it  is  load  planned. 
Load  planners  at  FedEx  were  in  a  centralized  location  where 
containers  are  weighed.  Each  load  planner  is  responsible 
for  planning  the  weight  and  balance  on  several  aircraft 
during  the  nighttime  operations.  Once  a  load  planner  begins 
a  load  plan,  all  of  the  information  is  stored  in  a  computer. 
Nearly  anyone  with  a  FedEx  computer  terminal  can  see  load 
plans,  however,  only  the  load  planner  can  make  changes  to 
the  load. 

Once  a  load  plan  is  complete,  the  load  teams  begin  to 
load  the  cargo  onto  the  proper  aircraft.  Onload  teeuns 
(separate  from  offload  teams)  are  assigned  monthly  to  the 


99 


flights  scheduled  for  loading.  (Some  offload  teeuns  also 
assist  in  some  onloads).  The  load  team  chiefs  are  handed  a 
copy  of  the  load  sequence  by  the  load  planner  for  the 
aircraft  they  are  assigned  to  work.  While  the  load  team 
chiefs  also  have  hand-held  radios  primarily  for  speaking 
with  outbound  senior  managers,  they  use  the  "Super system” 
for  aircraft  parking  and  departure  information.  The 
Supersystem  computer  updates  a  series  of  screens  located 
throughout  all  of  the  sort  buildings.  These  screens  reduce 
the  amount  of  radio  traffic  and  keep  everyone  updated  on 
pertinent  information. 

Safety 

Clothing  and  protective  gear  are  important  parts  of 
employee  safety.  All  of  FedEx's  sort  and  ramp  personnel 
wore  uniforms  which  consisted  of  black  shirts,  black  shorts, 
and  boots.  Some  employees  wore  grey  shirts  which  were  part 
of  an  old  uniform  that  was  being  phased  out.  Cargo  gloves 
were  optional. 

Eo^loyees  working  on  or  around  the  aircraft  parking 
ramp  were  required  to  wear  hearing  protection  and  a  very 
small  reflective  arm  band.  These  arm  bands  held  their 
aircraft  ramp  badge /FedEx  identification  and  were  worn  on 
their  left  arm.  With  the  identification  taking  up  most  of 
the  space  on  the  arm,  only  a  few  inches  of  reflective 
material  could  be  seen  on  the  average  size  person. 


100 


As  mentioned  previously,  the  traffic  congestion  inside 
of  the  superhub  made  the  drive  paths  and  wallcways  very 
narrow.  The  poor  lighting  outside,  coupled  with  the  black 
uniforms  and  very  little  reflective  gear,  made  the  ramp  area 
very  unsafe.  Also,  there  were  no  visible  driving  lines  or 
paths  on  the  outside  of  the  sorting  facility  or  on  the 
ramps. 

With  numerous  vehicles  quickly  moving  from  the  sort 
facility  to  the  aircraft  parking  ramp,  poor  lighting,  black 
uniforms,  and  little  reflective  gear,  it  was  extremely 
difficult  to  see  anything  outside.  In  fact,  the  areas 
between  aircraft  where  there  were  no  portable  lights  were 
totally  black. 

Interview 

Title  of  person(s)  interviewed!  Senior  Manager, 

Field  Sort  Operation- 
South/Hub  Engineering 

1.  What  type  of  cargo  do  you  specialise  in  handling  and 
what  other  types  of  cargo  do  you  handle? 

Federal  Express  (FedEx)  specializes  in 
priority  overnight  movement  of  small  boxes  and 
documents  that  weigh  less  than  150  pounds. 

Another  type  of  cargo  moved  by  FedEx  includes 
"heavy  weight"  cargo  that  weighs  more  than  150 
pounds.  The  Buocimura  alloweUsle  weight  for 
overnight  heavy  weight  shipments  is  1,500  pounds. 
"Deferred  service"  includes  all  cargo  (any  weight) 


101 


that  can  fit  on  FedEx's  aircraft  and  is  not 
requested  to  be  moved  overnight. 

2.  Do  you  have  written  procedures  in  place  for  surge 
periods?  If  so,  are  these  company-wide,  regional,  or  local? 

Yes,  FedEx  eBq>loyees  develop  "peak  plans"  to 
accommodate  any  surges  in  workload.  Peak  plans 
are  coBq)leted  with  inputs  frcxn  all  levels  of  the 
operation.  Regional  hubs  develop  their  own  peak 
plans.  Meetings  are  conducted  monthly;  then  as 
the  peak  (surge)  period  draws  closer,  meetings  axe 
held  every  week.  Prior  to  development  of  peak 
plans,  meetings  are  held  to  determine  what 
lessons,  if  any,  can  be  learned  from  the  previous 
peak  period.  For  example,  FedEx  conducts  "post¬ 
mortem"  meetings  in  January  to  discuss  any  lessons 
lesurned  from  the  previous  peak  period  (Christmas). 

Peak  plans  for  December  are  started  in  February  to 
prepare  for  the  next  Christmas  surge  period. 

FedEx  also  develops  strategic  plans.  These 
plans  cover  a  two  to  five  year  period  and  plan  how 
facilities  will  incorporate  forecasted  peak 
periods . 

3.  low  often  are  your  surge  plans  updated  and  do  you  ever 
test  your  plans? 

Peak  plans  are  updated  and  tested  annually. 

The  success  of  the  plans  is  based  upon  experience 
of  the  previous  year  and  how  customers  were 


102 


serviced.  The  plans  are  fine-tuned  on  a  monthly, 
bi-monthly,  or  weekly  basis  as  the  peak  period 
approaches.  Plans  for  a  specific  period  are 
finalized  90  days  prior  to  the  projected  surge 
period  and  include  a  formalized  timeline  for  the 
90  days  before  the  peak  period  begins. 

4.  Mhat  effects  do  surges  have  on  your  cargo  handling 
egnipsMnt? 

Peak  periods  require  more  cargo  handling 
equipment.  FedEx's  plans  are  based  on  what  is 
anticipated  for  the  peak  period.  Ground  Support 
Equipment  (GSE)  and  equipment  spares  are  ordered 
prior  to  the  peak  period.  During  non-peak 
periods,  the  equipment  is  kept  as  excess  until  the 
next  peak  period.  However,  peak  periods  are 
fairly  close  together.  For  exa]iq>le,  GSE  acquired 
for  the  December  peak  is  held  by  FedEx  until  March 
when  the  volume  reaches  another  peak. 

When  acquiring  GSE,  FedEx  factors  in  a 
certain  amount  of  spares  to  cover  equipment  that 
is  out  of  service  (in  maintenance).  However,  peak 
plans  are  developed  with  all  on-hand  equipment 
taken  into  consideration  to  include  spare 
equipment  purchased. 


103 


5.  Xf  Asctra  a^ipMat  is  aaadad,  do  you  obtain  it  through 
la-honao  raaourcas  or  hy  contract?  Do  you  go  through 
ocaqpaay'-vlda,  regional,  or  local  channala? 

Management  at  all  hubs  participates  in  the 
GSE  planning  process.  If  more  equipment  is 
required  than  what  was  originally  planned,  the 
decision  to  acquire  more  equipment  is  made  at  the 
superhub  in  Menqihis  (centralized) .  The  Memphis 
superhub  first  determines  if  in-house  resources 
can  be  moved  from  other  hubs  to  accommodate  the 
added  requirement.  If  in-house  resources  are  not 
available,  the  superhub  will  purchase  equipment 
from  outside  vendors. 

6.  During  surge  periods,  how  do  your  personnel  levels 
change? 

Personnel  levels  increase  during  surge 
periods.  Last  year  FedEx  required  350  more  people 
to  handle  a  one  week  peak  period  during  the 
nighttime  sort.  (There  are  approximately  8,000 
employees  working  during  a  nighttime  sort 
operation) .  FedEx  did  not  hire  extra  people  to 
handle  this  peak  period;  instead,  eiiq>loyees  from 
the  corporate  stef^  volunteered  to  work  in 
positions  within  the  sort  operation.  In  addition, 
eiiq>loyees  who  worked  during  the  daytime  operation 
were  moved  to  the  night  shift  for  the  one  week 
period. 


104 


7.  Do  you  go  through  coa^any-wido,  rogloaal,  or  local 
ohaaiiols  to  got  additional  porsonnol?  hro  thoy  hirod  aa 
part>tia»  or  full*tiaa? 

FedEx  uses  local  channels  when  hiring 
additional  personnel.  Each  regional  hub  hires 
personnel  from  the  local  area.  As  explained 
above,  additional  en^loyees  are  not  hired  during 
surge  periods  (corporate  staff  and  daytime 
eiq>loyees  are  used  to  hemdle  a  nighttime  surge ) . 

8.  How  do  you  train  these  additional  eaqployees  and  is  there 
a  learning  ourve  associated  with  this  training? 

FedEx  enqployees  who  work  during  the  peak 
period  are  trained  locally.  Corporate  staff 
employees  who  ten^rarily  work  in  the  sort 
operation  are  placed  in  positions  that  do  not 
require  extensive  operational  training  (i.e. 
positioning  boxes  on  conveyors  for  visual  scanning 
by  keyboard  operators ) .  Employees  who  are  more 
experienced  and  are  properly  trained,  are  moved  to 
applicable  areas  (i.e.  loading  aircraft). 

9.  Hotw  do  you  measure  the  effectiveness  of  your  day-to-'day 
cargo  handling  operations? 

FedEx  uses  three  measurements  to  determine 
the  effectiveness  of  their  day-to-day  cargo 
handling  operations:  1)  coii^>letion  of  the  sort 
operation  at  a  specified  time;  2)  on-time  aircraft 
departures;  and  3)  service  levels  provided  to  the 


5 


customer.  Bach  measurement  is  given  equal  weight 
and  all  measurements  are  equally  i]iq>ortant. 

The  first  measurement  used  by  FedEx  is 
whether  or  not  the  sort  operation  is  conqpleted  on 
time.  FedEx  refers  to  this  as  "the  sort  going 
down  on-time"  and  a  goal  is  set  every  night  to 
c(»plete  the  sort  operation  at  a  specific  time. 

If  the  sort  goal  is  not  met,  FedEx  looks  at  what 
factors  affected  their  inability  to  meet  the  goal. 

The  second  measurement,  on-time  aircraft 
departures,  is  tracked  every  day,  week,  and  month. 
FedEx  reviews  how  many  minutes  its  aircraft  are 
delayed  and  what  factors  affect  any  delays  (i.e. 
maintenance,  loading,  fuels,  etc.).  Even  if  the 
sort  operation  is  late,  the  overall  goal  is  still 
to  get  the  aircraft  out  on-time. 

The  last  measurement  is  the  overall  service 
provided  to  the  customer.  FedEx  has  an  internal 
measurement  system  called  Service  Quality 
Indicators  (SQI)  which  are  12  items  that  help 
measure  the  satisfaction  of  FedEx  customers.  The 
SQI  include:  1)  right  day  lates  (cargo  that 
arrives  on  the  right  day  but  late ) ;  2 )  wrong  day 
lates  (cargo  that  arrives  on  the  wrong  day  and  is 
late);  3)  international  service;  4)  traces  (how 
many  calls  they  receive  to  trace  cargo) ; 


106 


5)  ccn^laints ;  6)  the  nuaber  of  nissing  proof  of 
deliveries;  7)  invoice  adjustaents  requested; 

8)  aissed  pick-ups;  9)  daaaged  packages; 

10)  lost  packages;  11)  over-goods  (packages  that 
break  open  or  spillage);  and  12)  abandoned  calls 
(the  nuaber  of  calls  not  answered  in  a  certain 
period  of  tiae) . 

10.  Bow  do  you  aeasure  the  effectiveness  of  your  cargo 
handling  operations  during  surges? 

The  saae  day-to-day  effectiveness  neasuresients  are 

used  during  surge  periods. 


107 


Appendix  F8 


Observation 

Sotting 

The  Eaery  hub  at  the  Dayton  International  Airport  was 
the  setting  of  a  July  1993  tour  of  Bnery's  nighttime  hub 
operations.  During  a  four  hour  window  every  Monday  through 
Friday r  approximately  37  aircraft  transit  the  hub. 

Bmery  uses  one  building  to  sort  all  incoming  and 
outgoing  cargo,  regardless  of  cargo  size.  This  sort 
facility  was  clean  and  well-lit,  with  entries  into  the 
building  on  two  sides.  North  and  South.  The  predominant 
characteristic,  in  cooqparison  with  the  other  commercial 
carriers  observed,  prevalent  in  the  sort  facility  was  the 
large  number  of  forklifts. 

Outside  of  the  sort  facility  was  a  large,  well-lit 
parking  zamp  on  which  aircraft  were  well-spaced  for  safety 
reasons.  The  ras^  had  enough  space  for  gro%irth  and  could 
most  likely  hold  twice  the  number  of  aircraft  currently 
handled. 

niere  was  a  lot  of  activity  on  and  around  each  aircraft 
during  the  observation.  Each  arriving  and  departing 
aircraft  had  cargo  load  teams,  forklifts,  containers,  pallet 
dollies,  K-loaders,  and  slave  racks — all  of  which  will  be 
described  in  the  next  section. 


108 


Cargo  Handling  EguipHont 

The  majority  of  Emery's  cargo  is  transported  by  some 
type  of  forklift.  Propane-powered  forklifts  transport 
containers  and  pallets  of  cargo  to  and  from  aircraft.  The 
saiw  forklifts  also  move  empty  containers  or  pallets  to  the 
cargo  build-up  area  in  the  sort  facility. 

Cargo  that  is  too  large  to  move  through  Emery's 
conveyor  system,  is  transported  in  "truck  totes"  or  wire 
cages  to  the  cargo  build-up  area.  Small  forklifts,  called 
"schrecks"  are  used  to  transport  the  truck  totes  around  the 
sorting  facility. 

A  majority  of  the  cargo  that  Emery  receives  is  moved  in 
fiberglass  cargo  containers  that  are  contoured  to  the  shape 
of  the  type  of  aircraft  on  which  it  will  be  loaded.  These 
containers  have  vinyl,  tarp-like  "door"  openings  through 
which  cargo  is  loaded  and  unloaded.  The  "door"  comprises 
the  entire  side  of  a  container.  These  large  openings  allow 
placement  of  any  piece  of  cargo  that  can  physically  fit  into 
a  container  without  wrestling  the  cargo  through  a  small  door 
opening. 

Emery  was  the  only  carrier  observed  to  have  specialized 
secure  cargo  containers.  Each  of  these  containers  are 
painted  bright  yellow  and  have  hard  fiberglass  doors  which 
can  be  locked.  These  are  used  to  ship  high  value  or  high 
theft  items. 

For  cargo  that  is  too  large  to  fit  into  a  container, 
truck  totes  or  forklifts  are  used  to  transport  it  to  a  large 


109 


cargo  build-up  area  on  one  end  of  the  sorting  facility. 

Here,  this  cargo  is  palletized  as  explained  later. 

Dollies  (slightly  larger  and  taller  than  what  the  Air 
Force  calls  pallet  dollies)  are  used  to  transport  containers 
to  and  from  aircraft  to  the  sort  building.  Each  dolly  can 
hold  two  containers,  and  up  to  two  dollies  are  pulled  by 
tugs. 

Before  containers  and  pallets  can  be  placed  on 
K-loaders  for  uploading  on  the  aircraft,  they  are  first 
placed  onto  a  "slave  rack".  A  slave  rack  is  a  metal 
platform  with  metal  rollers  on  the  top  side  of  the  platform 
(similar  to  rollerized  forklift  tines  used  by  the  Air 
Force) .  This  rack  is  used  so  that  the  forklifts  do  not 
damage  the  containers  or  the  pallets  with  forklift  tines. 
Slave  racks  are  also  used  to  transport  containers  and 
pallets  inside  of  the  sorting  facility.  Once  the  slave 
racks  are  placed  on  the  floor  of  the  sort  facility,  the 
containers  and  pallets  can  be  easily  maneuvered  because  of 
the  rollers  on  the  rack. 

K-loaders  are  used  to  load  containers  and  pallets  onto 
the  aircraft.  Containers  and  pallets  are  placed  onto  the 
K-loader  by  a  forklift,  then  one  container  or  pallet  can  be 
raised  to  the  main  deck  of  the  aircraft  for  loading. 

Aircraft 

All  of  Emery's  aircraft  are  maintained  by  Emery 
employees,  with  the  majority  of  the  maintenance  performed  at 


its  main  hub  in  Dayton.  Emery  has  the  following  types  of 
aircraft!  707s,  727s,  and  DC-8s. 

Small  Package  Sort 

Like  all  other  air  cargo  carriers  observed,  Emery  sorts 
its  small  packages  several  times.  The  initial  sort  is  based 
on  the  decision  of  whether  the  cargo  can  move  on  the 
conveyor  belts  that  run  throughout  the  facility  or  if  it 
must  bypass  the  belts.  All  cargo  that  is  small  and  light 
enough  (under  70  pounds),  and  has  no  rough  edges  that  could 
damage  the  conveyors,  is  sent  through  the  initial  sort 
process.  Cargo  that  fits  into  a  container,  but  cannot  be 
moved  on  the  conveyors,  is  transported  individually  to  the 
container  loading  area. 

The  primary  sort  is  a  manual  sort  of  all  packages  by  a 
three  letter  airport  code.  This  sort  sends  packages  to 
either  the  North  or  South  side  of  the  sort  facility.  This 
decision  is  based  upon  the  side  of  the  building  in  which  a 
particular  city's  cargo  will  be  loaded  into  containers. 

Fast  moving  conveyor  belts  are  used  to  move  the  packages 
throughout  the  sort  facility. 

There  are  three  modules  in  the  sort  facility,  and  each 

module  is  responsible  for  loading  containers  destined  to 

/ 

several  cities.  The  secondary  sort  is  by  three  letter 
airport  code  and  is  used  to  send  packages  to  each  module. 

The  secondary  sort  includes  a  section  with  tilt  trays 
that  sort  cargo  again.  Cargo  arrives  in  the  section  by 


111 


conveyor  belt,  then  a  technician  enters  the  three  letter 
airport  code  into  a  computer.  The  computer  then  moves  this 
piece  of  cargo  onto  a  conveyor  belt  with  wooden  trays  that 
tilt  at  the  appropriate  time  and  deposit  cargo  down  a  chute 
to  one  of  the  modules.  Each  chute  may  handle  only  one 
city ' 8  cargo  ( if  the  city  has  a  large  amount  of  cargo ) ,  or 
it  may  handle  several  city's  cargo. 

The  final  sort  takes  place  when  an  employee  loading  the 
container  checks  the  three  letter  code,  then  places  the 
package  in  the  proper  container.  This  makes  the  person 
loading  the  container  responsible  for  checking  each  piece 
for  its  proper  destination. 

Large  Cargo  Handling 

Any  cargo  that  is  too  large  or  too  heavy  (greater  than 
70  pounds)  to  be  placed  on  the  conveyor  belt  system  is  moved 
by  schreck  or  forklift  to  a  pallet  build-up  area  on  one  end 
of  the  sort  facility.  Aluminum  aircraft  cargo  pallets  or 
"cookie  sheets"  are  used  for  shipping  large  pieces  of  cargo. 
Single  empty  pallets  are  placed  on  slave  racks,  then  plastic 
is  placed  on  the  empty  pallet.  Next,  cargo  is  placed  on  top 
of  the  pallet  using  a  forklift.  Once  a  pallet  is  full  or  no 
other  cargo  is  availedsle  for  the  destination  of  that  pallet, 
it  is  covered  with  plastic  and  nets.  The  plastic  is  for 
temporary  protection  from  the  weather  since  a  pallet  is  only 
exposed  to  weather  for  a  few  minutes.  Emery  is  the  only 
carrier  observed  to  place  plastic  on  the  bottom  of  the 


112 


pallet  before  cargo  is  loaded.  The  nets  used  are  commercial 
air  cargo  nets  which  are  a  thin  rope-type  net.  These  nets 
are  placed  over  the  cargo  to  provide  the  same  restraint  that 
a  cargo  container  would  provide  for  a  similar  load. 

Each  pallet  is  transported  to  the  aircraft  by  forklift. 
Once  at  the  aircraft,  the  forklift  places  the  pallet  onto 
the  K-loader  by  sliding  the  pallet  off  of  the  slave  rack. 

In  other  words,  the  slave  rack  does  not  get  loaded  onto  the 
aircraft . 

Eaployees 

Like  all  of  the  air  cargo  carriers  observed,  Emery's 
employees  who  sort  and  load/unload  cargo  are  part-time 
workers.  Both  male  and  female  workers  were  seen  in  all 
areas  of  the  operation. 

Intransit  Visibility 

All  of  the  packages  sorted  at  the  hub  had,  as  a 
minimum,  one  barcoded  label.  Many  customers  placed  their 
own  barcoded  labels  on  packages  for  their  internal  use. 

While  each  label  was  visually  inspected  several  times  for 
the  proper  three  letter  airport  codes,  no  scanning  of  the 
barcodes  was  observed  at  the  Dayton  hub.  Instead,  packages 
are  scanned  before  departing  for  Dayton  and  after  arriving 
at  their  destination  airport.  The  scanning  of  packages  at 
regional  hubs  or  outlying  terminals  saves  the  Dayton  hub 
valued>le  time  at  night,  but  true  intransit  visibility  did 
not  appear  to  be  possible. 


113 


1 


Operations  Intsrfaco 

The  load  planners  at  Emery  were  not  located  near  the 
area  where  cargo  containers  or  cargo  pallets  were  filled 
with  cargo.  Instead,  after  a  container  or  pallet  was 
weighed  upon  leaving  a  module,  the  weight  and  identification 
numbers  were  put  into  a  computer.  Then,  load  planners  would 
use  that  information  to  load  plan  several  different 
aircraft . 

At  the  beginning  of  the  evening  there  are  three  load 
planners  working  on  pre-load  plans.  By  the  end  of  the 
evening,  personnel  from  the  hazardous  materials  (hazmat) 
area  move  to  the  load  planning  section  and  work  on  the 
remaining  flights.  All  of  the  load  pleuining  personnel  could 
contact  the  teams  that  were  building  cargo  containers  or 
pallets  as  well  as  the  cargo  load  teams. 

Emery  has  its  own  tower  which  overlooks  the  entire 
aircraft  ramp  at  the  Dayton  hub,  and  employees  in  the  tower 
coordinate  aircraft  arrivals,  parking,  maintenance,  de¬ 
icing,  and  loading/unloading.  Both  radios  and  telephones 
were  used  to  coordinate  all  aircraft  functions. 

Aircraft  unload  teams  worked  on  both  the  top  (main) 
decks  and  in  the  belly  compartments  of  the  aircraft. 

However,  the  upload  teams  were  separated  into  top  deck 
loaders  and  main  deck  loaders.  On  occasion,  one  load  teeun 
would  load  both  the  top  deck  and  the  bellies.  A  load/unload 
teeun  consists  of  ten  to  12  people. 


114 


Safety 

Clothing  and  protective  gear  are  in^ortant  elements  of 
es^loyee  safety.  Emery's  employees  are  issued  uniforms. 
These  uniforms  consist  of  navy  blue  pants  and  orange  and 
blue  shirts  (Friday  is  casual  night  and  uniforms  are 
optional) .  Steel-toed  boots  are  mandatory  and  en^loyees  are 
given  vouchers  for  50  percent  of  the  cost  of  boots.  Cargo 
gloves  and  lifting  belts  aure  availed>le  to  all  personnel. 
BiQ>loyees  working  outside  on  aircraft  and  on  the  parking 
ramp  are  required  to  wear  reflective  vests  and  hearing 
protection . 

Lighting,  another  important  safety  area,  was  very  good 
both  inside  and  outside  of  Emery's  facilities.  Good 
lighting  is  essential  due  to  the  amount  of  vehicle  traffic 
and  congestion  in  the  sorting  facility.  Within  the  sort 
facility,  forklifts  and  schrecks  were  often  lined  up  back- 
to-back  waiting  to  move  heavy  weight  cargo  to  the  pallet 
build-up  area.  Because  everyone  observed  was  safety 
conscious  and  used  horns  and  signaling  devices,  the 
operation  was  safe. 

Because  of  the  amount  of  activity  surrounding  the  sort 
facility  and  the  aircraft  ramp  areas,  no  walking  is  allowed 
on  the  outside  of  the  sort  building  or  on  the  rampa. 

Instead,  vans  and  buses  move  workers  to  and  from  parking 
lots,  aircraft,  and  the  sort  facility. 


115 


Ziit«rrl«w 


Titl«  of  pmrmoB(m)  iatBnrimmdt  Supervisor,  Quality 

Assurance 

1.  What  type  of  cargo  do  you  specialise  in  handling  and 
what  other  types  of  cargo  do  you  handle? 

Emery  specializes  in  handling  heavy  weight  cargo 
that  weighs  over  70  pounds,  with  approximately  1,000 
shipments  handled  per  night.  The  average  weight  of 
Emery's  cargo  is  approximately  110  pounds.  Other  types 
of  cargo  that  Emery  moves  include  live  animals, 
automotive  material,  and  clothing  (fashion  industry 
cargo),  hazardous  materials,  signature  service, 
constant  surveillance  cargo,  and  a  variety  of 
government  cargo  (to  include  sensitive  cargo  requiring 
couriers --’however,  Emery  does  not  handle  classified 
cargo) . 

2.  Do  you  have  written  procedures  in  place  for  surge 
periods?  If  so,  are  these  cos^any-wide,  regional,  or  local? 

No,  Emery  does  not  have  written  procedures  in 
place  for  surge  periods.  Although  the  heavy  peak 
period  is  around  Christmas-time  (September, 

October,  and  November) ,  Emery  has  a  variety  of 
periods  of  increased  workload  depending  upon 
customer  requirements.  For  example,  Emery  just 
consisted  a  surge  in  workload  when  General  Motors 
(GH)  had  its  "build-out”  that  finished  its  1993 
product  and  began  to  produce  vehicles  for  1994. 


116 


This  build-out  resulted  in  a  heavy  increase  in 
workload  for  Emery. 

Bawry  focuses  on  customization  and  any  increases 
in  workload  are  handled  on  a  day-by-day  basis. 
Procedures  and  standards  are  in-place  for  overload 
situations;  however,  every  day  is  different  and 
adjustments  are  made  depending  on  the  requirements  for 
that  day.  For  example,  on  one  day  J^ple  conqputer  may 
send  in  50  skids  of  cargo  and  Emery  would  have  to  make 
adjustments  to  normal  procedures  to  handle  the  overload 
for  that  specific  day  and  then  return  to  ..ormal 
procedures  when  the  cargo  is  moved. 

Although  Emery  does  not  have  plans  specifically 
for  surge  periods,  operational  manuals  provide  guidance 
for  employees  in  the  event  of  an  overload  situation. 

An  overload  situation  may  occur  with  incoming  or 
outgoing  cargo.  As  an  exaiq}le,  Emery  has  reports  that 
state  a  requirement  to  move  225,000  pounds  to  Dallas, 
Texas;  however,  only  one  DC-8  aircraft,  with  a  maucimum 
capacity  of  100,000  pounds,  is  scheduled  for  Dallas. 
There  are  procedures  to  accommodate  this  overload 
situation  and  to  find  the  best  and  most  cost-effective 
means  of  delivering  the  customer's  cargo. 

3.  How  often  are  your  surge  plans  updated  and  do  you  ever 
test  your  plans? 

As  stated  previously,  Emery  does  not  have  specific 
written  procedures  for  surge  periods.  However,  the 


117 


operational  manuals  used  by  Emery  employees  for  a 
variety  of  tasks  (l.e.  purchasing  manuals  and  books), 
to  include  procedures  for  overload  situations,  are 
updated  tumually. 

4.  Nhat  effects  do  surges  have  on  your  cargo  handling 
equipment? 

Surges  in  workload  result  in  added  wear  and  tear 
on  the  cargo  handling  equipment. 

5.  Xf  extra  equipamat  is  needed,  do  you  obtain  It  through 
In-house  resources  or  by  contract?  Do  you  go  through 
coaipany-wlde,  regional,  or  local  channels? 

Emery  examines  the  most  cost  effective  means 
to  determine  whether  or  not  extra  equipment  is 
rented  or  purchased.  If  the  requirement  for  more 
equipment  is  a  short-term  requirement,  Emery  will 
teiiq)orarily  rent  the  equipment.  If  there  is  a 
long-term  requirement  for  more  equipment,  the 
equipment  is  purchased. 

Emery  has  two  regional  hubs.  Other  locations 
serviced  by  Emery  are  called  "terminals”  or 
” out stat ions " .  Equipment  is  not  moved  between  the 
regional  hubs,  outstations,  and  the  main  hub 
during  surge  periods. 

Price  limits  are  set  on  specific  decisions — 
decisions  to  acquire  extra  equipment  that  exceed 
the  price  limit  require  corporate  approval. 

However,  Emery's  main  hub  at  Dayton  will  usually 


118 


not  go  through  the  corporate  office  to  lease  or 
buy  extra  equlpMnt  (decentralized  decision-making 
process).  In  addition,  the  two  regional  hubs  and 
outstations  will  usually  not  go  through  Emery's 
main  hub  in  Dayton  to  get  approval  to  acquire 
extra  equiE»wnt. 

6.  During  surge  periods,  how  do  your  personnel  levels 
change? 

Personnel  levels  increase  during  surge 
periods.  Cargo  is  sorted  during  a  specified 
timeframe  and  it  is  not  possible  to  extend  this 
window  to  have  the  same  employees  work  longer 
hours.  If  Emery  is  inundated  with  cargo,  they 
find  it  best  to  bring  more  people  on  during  the 
surge  period  to  handle  the  workload. 

7.  Do  you  go  through  company-wide,  regional,  or  local 
channels  to  get  additional  personnel?  Are  they  hired  as 
part-time  or  full-time? 

When  hiring  additional  permanent  enployees 
for  the  hub  at  Dayton  or  for  the  regional  hubs, 
approval  fron  the  corporate  office  is  required. 
These  permanent  esqployees  are  hired  as  part-time 
esployees  from  their  perspective  local  economies. 
Emery  uses  a  tenporary  esployment  agency  to  hire 
personnel  required  for  a  short  period  of  time.  The 
decision  to  hire  tenporary  employees  is  made  at  the 
local  level  and  does  not  require  corporate  approval. 


119 


8.  low  dio  you  train  thasa  additional  aaqployaas  and  ia  thara 
a  laaming  curra  aasociatad  with  thia  training? 

Paraanant  aaployaaa  go  through  a  one  waek 
oriantation  pariod  which  conaiata  of  threa  daya  of 
claaaro<»  training  and  two  daya  of  handa-on 
axparianca.  Than,  the  aaployaaa  are  placed  in 
thair  actual  poaition.  Saqployaaa  hired  for 
poaitiona  that  require  wore  akill  receive 
additional  training  on  the  job. 

Taaqmrary  aaq>loyaaa  hired  for  aurge  parioda 
are  given  a  brief  oriantation  (i.a.  infomation 
required  for  FAA  purpoaaa  auch  aa  hazardoua 
■atarial  novad  throughout  the  facility) .  Moat 
taaporary  anployaaa  are  given  on-tha-job  training. 
During  theaa  parioda,  paraonnel  within  the  hub 
operation  are  ahiftad  around  with  more  experienced 
peraonnel  (permanent  eaqiloyeea)  placed  in 
poaitiona  that  require  more  akill  and  temporary 
e^ployeea  given  joba  that  require  leaa  skill. 

9.  How  do  you  maasora  the  affactivanass  of  your  day-to-day 
cargo  handling  operations? 

Each  department  has  different  goals  to  meet 
and  specified  targets  times.  For  example,  raiiq> 
operations  are  required  to  download  a  DC-8  in 
27  minutes.  Ramp  personnel  offloading  the 
aircraft  are  timed  and  these  times  are  entered 


120 


into  the  computer  by  personnel  in  the  tower  (these 
tisws  are  aonitored  and  tracked) . 

The  breakdown  operation  also  has  tiurget  times 
to  SMet.  When  the  cargo  is  offloaded  and  brought 
into  the  breakdown  area,  Eaery  records  hourly  and 
overall  cycle  times,  or  how  many  containers  are 
turned  over  or  broken  down  per  hour  by  a  team. 

The  build-up  area  is  required  to  close-out  or 
cosqilete  their  operation  within  a  specified  period 
of  tisM.  Missorts  (the  axMunt  of  cargo  that  is 
missorted)  are  also  used  to  measure  the 
effectiveness  of  the  build-up  area.  Emery  is 
performing  at  a  99.995  percent  ratio  (low  amount 
of  missorts).  Currently,  Bmeiry  has  an  audit  team 
that,  after  a  container  is  built-up,  will  randomly 
select  a  container  filled  with  cargo  and  break  the 
cargo  down  to  look  for  any  inconsistencies  such  as 
missorts  or  siishandling. 

If  the  various  department  do  not  meet  their 
goals,  immediate  feedback  is  given;  usually,  this 
feedback  is  given  at  the  beginning  of  the  next 
shift.  In  addition  to  the  department  goals,  Emery 
has  a  c(mq>any-wide  goal  to  have  all  aircraft 
depart  on-time.  Emery  has  a  program  set  up  that 
monetarily  coaq>ensates  eoqployees  at  the  end  of  the 
year  if  standards  are  met.  Although  each 


121 


department  has  their  o%m  separate  goals,  the  overall 
coa^>any  goal  is  to  service  the  customer. 

10.  Bow  do  you  measure  the  effectiveness  of  your  cargo 
handling  operations  during  surges? 

The  same  day-to-day  effectiveness  measurements  etre 

used  during  surge  periods. 


122 


ObMrratlon 


Sattlng 

Airborne's  hub  in  Wilmington,  OH  was  the  setting  of  an 
April  1993  tour  of  Airborne's  nighttime  hub  operations. 

While  approximately  75  aircraft  arrive  and  depart  Wilmington 
within  a  four  hour  window  every  Monday  through  Friday  night, 
the  most  interesting  observation  was  not  the  number  of 
aircraft  being  handled.  Instead,  the  airport  out  of  which 
Airborne  operates  is  clearly  the  most  unique  part  of  their 
operation.  Called  the  Airborne  Air  Park,  this  airport  is 
totally  owned  and  operated  by  Airborne  Freight.  Since 
Airborne  is  in  control  of  all  facilities  and  personnel  at 
the  airport,  this  is  its  major  advantage. 

Another  aspect  of  the  setting  which  needs  mentioning  is 
that  Airborne  uses  three  buildings  to  sort  its  next-day  air 
express  cargo  during  the  nighttime  operations.  All  three 
buildings  have  the  same  capability,  and  cargo  is  taken  to 
the  building  nearest  to  the  aircraft  from  which  it  was 
downloaded.  All  sort  buildings  were  extremely  clean,  well 
lit,  and  had  very  fast  moving  conveyor  belts  on  which  the 
majority  of  the  cargo  was  placed  for  sorting. 

Outside  of  the  sort  facilities  is  a  very  large  aircraft 
parking  ranq)  on  which  aircraft  are  well  spaced  for  safety 
reasons.  While  there  was  a  lot  of  activity  on  and  around 


123 


each  aircraft,  safety  was  prevalent.  The  extremely 
well-lit  parking  ramp  made  it  seem  like  it  was  midday 
instead  of  midnight. 

Cargo  Handling  Bguipnwnt 

Airborne  only  buys  aircraft  that  were  formerly  used  to 
transport  passengers  then  converts  these  into  cargo  carrying 
aircraft.  Because  of  the  unique  nature  of  its  aircraft 
buying.  Airborne  has  designed  a  cargo  container  that  is 
different  from  those  used  by  all  other  carriers  observed. 
These  containers  are  called  "C-Containers”  and  are 
manufactured  and  maintained  at  the  Wilmington,  OH  hub. 

C-Containers  are  small  and  light-weight  and  are  loaded 
through  the  existing  passenger  door  on  all  of  the  aircraft. 
Each  container  has  wheels  attached  to  the  bottom  so  they  can 
be  pushed  easily  by  hand,  thus  not  requiring  any  forklifts 
or  container  moving  dollies  (or  what  the  Air  Force  calls 
pallet  dollies) . 

Since  it  is  not  practical  to  physically  push  each 
container  to  an  aircraft.  Airborne  has  several  pieces  of 
equipment  that  can  carry  an  entire  aircraft  load  of 
C-Containers.  This  piece  of  equipment  is  called  a  "dragon" 
by  Airborne  employees.  Each  C-Container  is  pushed  by  hand 
onto  the  dragon,  which  is  only  a  few  inches  off  of  the 
ground,  and  has  a  ramp  which  lowers  to  the  ground.  Then, 
the  dragon  is  driven  by  its  own  power  to  the  aircraft  for 
uploading.  Airborne  also  has  several  large  carts  that  are 


124 


used  to  transport  C-Containers  to  the  aircraft.  Once  at  the 
aircraft,  the  C-Containers  are  loaded  the  same  way  from  both 
the  dragons  and  the  carts. 

To  move  C-Containers  from  the  dragon  to  the  aircraft, 
aircraft  loaders  or  K-loaders  are  not  used.  Instead, 
Airborne  uses  conveyor  belts  to  move  the  C-Containers  from 
the  dragon  to  the  passenger  door  of  the  aircraft.  The  same 
conveyors  are  typically  used  by  airlines  and  other  cargo 
carriers  to  load  loose  cargo  into  belly  compartments  of 
aircraft . 

Aircraft 

Airborne  uses  three  different  types  of  aircraft,  all  of 
which  were  previously  passenger  aircraft.  They  have  the 
following  ntunber  and  type  of  aircraft: 


24 

DC-Ss 

47 

DC-9s 

11 

YS-lls 

The  modification,  overhaul,  and  maintenance  on  these 
aircraft  are  accomplished  by  Airborne  en^loyees  at  their 
Wilmington,  OH  hub. 

Small  Package  Sort 

Like  all  other  air  cargo  carriers.  Airborne  sorts  its 
small  packages  several  times.  The  primary  sort  is  simply 
removing  cargo  from  an  incoming  C-Container  and  sorting  it 
by  the  region  of  the  country  for  which  it  is  destined. 
Eventually  all  cargo  is  sorted  by  a  three  letter  airport 
code,  then  loaded  into  outgoing  C-Containers. 


125 


All  cargo  that  is  small  enough  and  has  no  rough  edges 
that  could  damage  the  conveyors  is  sent  through  one  of  the 
sort  buildings  on  the  conveyor  system  that  runs  through  each 
building.  Cargo  that  is  too  large  (over  70  pounds),  too 
long  to  fit  into  a  C-Container,  or  has  metal  banding  or 
other  material  that  could  damage  the  conveyors  is  placed  in 
a  separate  area.  Then,  if  the  cargo  fits  into  a 
C-Container,  a  tug  is  used  to  move  this  cargo  to  the 
C-Container  build-’up  area.  If  cargo  will  not  fit  into  a 
C>Container,  it  is  taken  elsewhere  and  sent  by  a  contracted 
freight  forwarder  to  its  destination. 

Large  Cargo  Handling 

Cargo  that  weighs  over  70  pounds  is  considered  large  by 
Airborne.  This  cargo  is  never  refused,  but  it  is  not  moved 
on  Airborne's  aircraft.  Instead  it  is  trucked  to  a 
contractor  and  moved  by  a  contracted  flight  to  its 
destination  airport,  then  handled  by  Airborne  employees  at 
that  airport. 

B^iloyees 

Like  all  of  the  air  cargo  carriers  observed.  Airborne's 
employees  who  sort  and  load/unload  cargo  are  part-time 
workers.  Unlike  the  other  carriers.  Airborne  had  a  large 
number  of  female  employees  in  these  areas — nearly  50 
percent . 


126 


Intransit  Visibility 

All  of  the  packages  sorted  at  the  hub  had,  as  a 
minimum,  one  barcoded  label.  Many  customers  placed  their 
own  barcoded  labels  on  packages  for  their  internal  use. 

While  each  label  was  visually  inspected  for  the  proper 
regional  and  three  letter  airport  codes,  no  scanning  of  the 
barcodes  was  observed  at  the  Wilmington  hub.  Instead, 
packages  are  scanned  before  departing  for  Wilmington  and 
after  arriving  at  their  destination  airport.  The  scanning 
of  packages  at  regional  hubs  saves  the  Wilmington  hub 
valuable  time  at  night,  but  true  intransit  visibility  did 
not  appear  to  be  possible. 

(^rations  Interface 

Airborne  had  load  planning  stations  near  the  end  of  the 
sort  operations  in  each  of  its  sort  buildings.  As  a 
C-Container  was  filled,  it  was  weighed  by  the  person  who 
loaded  it.  Then,  that  person  would  write  the  weight  on  a 
grease  board  next  to  the  scales.  (Each  departing  flight  had 
its  own  grease  board  near  the  scales).  Then,  the 
C-Container  was  pushed  outside  of  the  sort  building  to  an 
awaiting  dragon  or  cart.  If  a  dragon  or  cart  was  not 
available,  the  C-Containers  were  pushed  aside  in  a  group  so 
they  could  easily  be  loaded  onto  a  dragon  or  cart  when  one 
was  availeUsle. 

When  all  C-Container s  for  a  flight  were  weighed,  a  load 
planner  would  fill  out  the  necessary  load  planning  documents 


127 


and  give  the  sequence  to  the  load  team  that  would  actually 
load  the  aircraft.  When  the  load  team  reached  the  aircraft, 
a  load  planning  computer  on-board  each  aircraft  could  be 
used  to  double  check  the  C-Container  sequence. 

To  eliminate  confusion,  aircraft  are  parked  in  the  same 
parking  spots  every  night.  Also,  load  teams  and  maintenance 
personnel  know  in  advance  which  aircraft  they  will  be 
working. 

Safety 

Clothing  and  protective  gear  are  part  of  employee 
safety.  Employees  did  not  have  a  uniform  or  any  apparent 
dress  code,  but  they  were  required  to  wear  sturdy  boots  that 
covered  their  ankles.  Leather  cargo  gloves  were  optional 
for  everyone.  Hearing  protection  was  optional  for  workers 
inside  of  the  sort  buildings  and  was  mandatory  for  workers 
on  the  aircraft  parking  ramps.  Reflective  gear  was  worn  by 
employees  working  outside  on  and  near  aircraft  on  the 
parking  ran^.  No  lifting  belts  were  observed  on  any 
en^loyee . 

Lighting  is  another  critical  part  of  nighttime  safety. 
Both  inside  and  outside  lighting  was  excellent.  Movement  by 
vehicles  to  and  from  sort  buildings  and  around  aircraft  was 
quick,  but  horns  and  signals  were  used  and  everyone  seemed 
to  be  conscious  of  everyone  else's  movements.  There  were  no 
noticeed>le  driving  or  walking  lines  painted  on  the  ground. 


128 


but  everyone  seemed  to  know  where  they  could  or  could  not 
walk  safely. 


Interview 

Title  of  person (s)  Intervletied:  Senior  Director,  Hub 

Operations 

1.  What  type  of  cargo  do  you  specialise  In  handling  and 
what  other  types  of  cargo  do  you  handle? 

Airborne's  specialty  is  in  the  movement  of 
what  it  calls  air  express  cargo.  60  percent  of 
air  express  cargo  weighs  between  one  and  five 
pounds,  with  the  average  weight  being  two  pounds. 
Approximately  40  percent  of  the  remaining  air 
express  cargo  weighs  between  five  and  70  pounds. 
Nearly  one  percent  of  air  express  cargo  is 
classified  as  "exceptions”.  Exceptions  are  odd 
size  cargo  (over  108  inches  long)  which  cannot 
physically  fit  into  one  of  the  C-Containers . 

Also,  anything  weighing  over  70  pounds  fits  into 
this  category. 

Another  type  of  cargo  that  Airborne  moves  is 
that  categorized  as  Select  Day  Service  ( SDS ) . 

This  type  of  cargo  allows  for  controlled  delivery 
by  Airborne  when  the  customer  specifies  a  required 
delivery  date  for  the  cargo.  Airborne  says  this 
type  of  cargo  has  seen  the  most  growth  in  the  past 
year. 


129 


2.  Do  yott  havo  wrlttan  proeoduras  in  placa  for  aurga 
parlods?  If  so,  ara  thasa  eoaqpaay-wlda,  raglonal,  or  local? 

Airborne  does  not  have  written  procedures  for 
surges  in  workload.  Due  to  the  excessive  growth 
experienced  each  year,  surges  in  workload  during 
previous  years  cannot  be  used  to  predict  future 
surges.  However,  because  Christaas  is 
traditionally  a  major  surge  period  for  Airborne, 
it  "gears  up"  for  the  surge  on  the  day  after 
Thanksgiving.  Also,  the  first  and  last  day  of  a 
business'  guarter  require  a  push  by  Airborne  to 
help  corporate  customers  move  their  packages. 

To  help  customers  at  the  beginning  and  end  of 
quarters.  Airborne  uses  some  of  its  aircraft  that 
it  holds  in  reserve  for  such  occasions.  (These 
aircraft  are  also  held  as  maintenance  spares ) . 

Also,  Airborne  relies  on  regional  hubs  during 
these  surges  in  Airborne's  workload. 

3.  How  often  are  your  surge  plans  updated  and  do  you  ever 
test  your  plans? 

Although  Airborne  has  no  written  surge  plans, 
weekly  scheduling  committees  meet  to  detejnnine 
concerns.  Also,  daily  sales  and  marketing 
meetings  take  place  to  discuss  issues  dealing  with 
its  major  corporate  accounts. 


130 


4.  Nhat  •ff«ots  do  surgos  havo  on  your  cargo  handling 
•qulpaont? 

Airborne's  equipment  is  only  used  for  six  to 
seven  hours  per  day,  allowing  a  lot  of  flexibility 
during  periods  of  increased  workload.  Since  next- 
day  (oveamight)  express  cargo  is  sorted  at  night, 
the  daytime  operations  are  not  as  busy.  To  help 
alleviate  some  of  the  sorting  burden  on  the 
nighttime  operations.  Airborne  uses  its  daytime 
operation  to  sort  cargo  for  the  Select  Day 
Service.  This  allows  better  utilization  of  both 
facilities  and  equipment. 

5.  If  extra  equipment  is  needed,  do  you  obtain  it  through 
in-house  resources  or  by  contract?  Do  you  go  through 
cosqtany-wide,  regional,  or  local  channels? 

Before  any  outside  equipment  and/or  aircraft 
are  requested.  Airborne  uses  in-house  resources. 

The  decision  to  move  resources  from  the  Wilmington 
hub  to  other  regional  hubs,  or  vice  versa,  is  made 
at  the  Wilmington  hub.  If  in-house  resources  are 
not  available,  then  other  companies  are  used. 

If  extra  equipment  or  aircraft  are  needed. 
Airborne  uses  charter  companies.  No  standing 
contracts  are  used;  only  the  goodwill  of  Airborne 
and  its  previous  business  relationships  are  used 
to  contract  anything  extra  that  is  needed. 


131 


6.  Daring  surga  parlods,  how  do  yoar  porsonnol  loroln 
chnaga? 

Cargo  load/download  personnel  and  sort 
personnel  aure  all  hired  as  part-tiise  during  noraial 
operations.  If  additional  personnel  are  needed 
during  periods  of  increased  workload,  current 
part-time  esqployees  are  asked  to  work  more  hours. 

If  that  is  not  enough,  then  more  people  are  hired. 

Hhen  a  person  is  first  hired  for  a  job  at 
Airborne,  they  are  hired  on  a  casual  basis. 
Approximately  20  percent  of  its  employees  are  in  a 
casual  status  at  any  given  time.  Casual  status  is 
basically  a  60  day  probationary  period  in  which 
all  newly  hired  personnel  are  placed.  If  more 
personnel  are  needed  for  surges,  the  casual 
employees  are  converted  into  part-time  employees, 
then  more  casuals  are  hired.  The  major 
distinguishing  characteristics  between  casual  and 
part-time  employees  are  that  casuals  may  or  may 
not  be  asked  to  work  on  a  given  night  and  they  do 
not  have  all  the  benefits  of  a  part-time  employee. 

7.  Do  you  go  through  company-wide,  regional,  or  local 
channels  to  get  additional  personnel?  Are  they  hired  as 
part-time  or  full-time? 

Additional  personnel  for  sort  and  aircraft 
load/download  are  all  hired  as  part-time 
employees.  The  approval  to  hire  more  personnel  is 
centralized  at  the  Wilmington,  OB  hub.  However, 


132 


the  actual  hiring  is  acc<»pli8hed  locally.  So,  if 
one  of  Airborne's  regional  hubs  needs  additional 
personnel,  the  Wilmington  hub  would  give  hiring 
approval,  and  the  personnel  would  be  hired  by  the 
regional  hub. 

8.  Hofw  do  you  train  these  additional  ei^loyees  and  is  there 
a  learning  curve  associated  with  this  training? 

All  casual  employees  are  trained  the  same 
way,  whether  hired  for  a  surge  period  or  for  a 
routine  period.  Each  casual  employee  spends  one 
week  in  orientation  to  the  company  which  includes 
familiarization  with  material  handling  equipment, 
departmental  policies,  and  safety  issues.  Then, 
depending  on  the  job  that  they  will  be  doing,  they 
receive  specialized  training  in  that  particular 
work  area. 

9.  How  do  you  measure  the  effectiveness  of  your  day-to-day 
cargo  handling  operations? 

A  daily  hub  report  is  produced  to  show 
productivity  by  supervisor  and  area  supervised. 

The  sort,  rasq),  and  overall  hub  productivity  are 
summarized  as  is  regional  hub  performances.  Also, 
by  1400  hours  each  day,  a  report  on  the  aircraft 
service  into  each  destination  is  reviewed.  This 
report  shows  the  service  or  on-time  arrivals  into 
each  destination.  A  goal  of  95  percent  on-time 


133 


arrivals  (called  a  service  level)  is  sought  at  all 

tiaes. 

The  percent  of  voIubm  of  different  types  of 
cargo  are  also  sussiarized  aonthly  to  detersdne  if 
Buurkets  are  changing.  This  allows  Airborne  to 
change  service  levels  by  adding  BK>re  or  larger 
aircraft  to  a  route,  by  changing  arrival  and 
departure  times,  or  by  realigning  cargo  handling 
equipawnt  to  meet  changing  smrket  demands. 

Airborne  uses  the  standard  pieces  of  cargo 
handled  per  manhour  to  determine  if  a  worker's 
performance  is  effective.  They  maintain  standards 
which  must  be  met  by  all  employees. 

Finally,  on-time  pickups  and  deliveries  are 
monitored  daily  by  Airborne  Freight  to  see  if  they 
are  sieeting  their  customers*  demands.  The  airline 
part  of  Airborne  Freight,  Airborne  Express, 
receives  this  information  on  a  weekly  basis  to 
determine  if  they  need  to  change  flights,  sorting 
times,  etc.  to  maintain  the  95  percent  service 
level . 

10.  How  do  you  measure  the  effectiveness  of  your  cargo 
handling  operations  during  surges? 

During  periods  of  increased  workload. 

Airborne  atteii^>ts  to  watch  the  number  of  hours 
worked  and  the  number  of  employees  working.  They 
do  not  want  productivity  to  go  down,  but  the 


134 


solution  is  not  always  to  put  store  people  to  work. 
Airborne  tries  to  keep  the  standard  pieces  handled 
per  ■anhour  constant. 

While  costs  are  a  anjor  concern,  they  are  not 
exaained  very  closely  during  surges.  This  is 
because  expenditures  are  exiunined  before 
anticipated  surges  in  %rorkload  occur. 


135 


Appendix  H:  DHL  Airwavg 
<U»eervation 

Setting 

DHL's  hub  at  the  Greater  Cincinnati-Northern  Kentucky 
Airport  was  the  setting  of  a  July  1993  tour  of  DHL's 
nighttime  hub  operations.  This  is  the  U.S.  domestic  hub  for 
DHL's  worldwide  operations.  Approximately  40  aircraft 
arrive  and  depart  the  DHL  " superhub ”  every  Monday  through 
Friday  night,  but  only  about  half  of  these  aircraft  are 
large  enough  to  carry  cargo  containers  and/or  pallets.  The 
other  aircraft  are  much  smaller  and  serve  customers  by 
loading  packages  loose  in  the  cargo  bay  of  these  aircraft. 

DHL  has  three  aircraft  parking  raii^s,  all  of  which  were 
observed  in  operation.  However,  due  to  the  diversity  of 
aircraft  types,  a  detailed  list  of  aircraft  number  and  type 
had  to  be  provided  by  DHL. 

DHL  used  one  well-lit  building  for  its  sort  operations. 
Conveyor  belts  were  prevalent  throughout  the  building,  and 
these  conveyors  were  the  slowest  moving  ones  observed  in 
this  study. 

The  aircraft  parking  ramp  area  utilized  by  DHL  was 
small,  yet  three  separate  rao^s  were  used.  Due  to  airport 
expansion,  part  of  the  ramp  was  under  construction  during 
this  observation.  The  two  ramp  areas  closest  to  the  sort 
facility  were  well-lit,  and  aircraft  were  parked  very  close 
together.  The  third  parking  ramp  was  used  to  park  DHL's 


136 


smallest  aircraft  for  the  nighttime  hub  operations,  but  it 
was  a  common  user  parking  area  during  the  day.  This  area 
did  not  have  as  much  light  as  the  two  main  parking  rasqps. 

Cargo  Haadllag  Iqalpmeiit 

No  forklifts  were  observed  at  DHL's  hub.  All  of  the 
cargo  was  placed  into  cargo  containers  or  onto  aluminum 
aircraft  cargo  pallets  and  transported  on  pallet  dollies 
pulled  by  tugs.  The  cargo  containers  were  made  of 
fiberglass  and  had  canvas  (tarp-like)  door  openings  through 
which  cargo  was  loaded  and  unloaded.  These  large  openings 
allow  any  piece  of  cargo  that  ceui  physically  fit  into  a 
container  to  be  placed  inside  of  the  container  without 
wrestling  it  through  a  small  door  opening.  Nearly  all  of 
the  cargo  sorted  through  the  facility  was  placed  into  these 
containers.  Cargo  that  was  too  large  to  fit  into  a 
container,  but  could  fit  onto  an  aircraft  pallet,  was  placed 
on  pallets  in  the  large  ceurgo  area. 

Dollies  were  pulled  by  tugs  and  were  used  to  transport 
containers  and  pallets  from  the  sort  facility  to  an  aircraft 
and  vice  versa.  After  an  aircraft’s  load  of  containers  on 
dollies  was  ready  to  be  uploaded,  a  K-loader  was  used  to 
load  the  aircraft.  Containers  or  pallets  were  pushed  from 
dollies  to  the  K~ loader  which  had  a  rollerized  flooring. 

This  K-loader  could  raise  two  containers  or  pallets  up  to 
the  main  deck  of  an  aircraft  at  the  same  time.  Then,  the 
containers  or  pallets  were  pushed  into  the  aircraft. 


137 


Aircraft 


DHL  has  the  following  type  of  large  aircraft  that  carry 
cargo  containers  and/or  pallets: 

12  727-lOOs 

6  727-200S 

10  SA-227S 

The  smaller  aircraft  used  by  DHL  are  contracted.  Some  of 
these  aircraft  are:  Dornier  228s,  Cessna  208s,  Convair  CV 
580s,  and  Convair  CV  640s. 

Small  Package  Sort 

Like  all  other  air  cargo  carriers,  DHL  sorts  its  small 
packages  several  times.  The  primary  sort  is  simply  removing 
cargo  from  incoming  containers  or  pallets  and  sorting  it  by 
the  region  of  the  country  for  which  it  is  destined.  Since 
DHL  is  the  leader  in  international  movement,  all 
international  cargo  is  sorted  by  its  stateside  destination 
where  it  is  placed  onto  a  specific  international  flight. 
Eventually,  all  cargo  is  sorted  by  a  three  letter  airport 
code,  then  loaded  into  outgoing  containers  or  onto  pallets. 

The  majority  of  cargo  arriving  at  the  hub  goes  through 
the  conveyors  in  the  small  package  sort  process.  Cargo  that 
is  nonconveysUsle  (due  to  shipment  size,  weight,  fragility, 
or  bulk  of  some  shipments)  is  moved  through  the  sort  process 
individually.  Cargo  that  is  too  large  to  fit  into  a 
container  is  moved  to  the  large  cargo  area. 


Larg*  Cargo  Handling 

Cargo  that  is  too  large  to  fit  into  a  container,  but  is 
small  enough  to  fit  onto  a  single  aircraft  pallet,  is  moved 
to  the  large  cargo  handling  area.  For  cargo  that  cannot  fit 
onto  a  single  pallet  or  for  large  shipments,  DHL  uses  a 
freight  forwarder  to  contract  space  on  another  carrier. 

The  area  designated  for  large  cargo  was  extremely  small 
and  located  outside  of  the  sort  facility  in  a  dark  alley 
between  two  buildings.  Only  a  small  amount  of  large  cargo 
was  observed  during  this  visit.  In  this  area,  cargo  was 
placed  onto  pallets,  then  covered  with  plastic  to  protect  it 
from  the  weather.  Commercial  cargo  nets  resembling  thin 
nylon  ropes  were  placed  over  the  cargo  for  restraint.  It 
was  also  obsezved  that  metal  cargo  was  placed  directly  onto 
the  aluminum  pallet.  This  observation  was  noted  because  the 
Air  Force  has  strict  guidelines  that  prohibit  this  practice. 

Bi^loyees 

Like  all  of  the  air  cargo  carriers  observed,  DHL's 
en^loyees  who  sort  and  load/unload  cargo  are  part-time 
workers.  Most  of  their  employees  in  these  two  areas  were 
male.  All  of  the  supervisory  personnel  were  distinguished 
by  wearing  a  uniform  consisting  of  a  white  shirt  with  a  DHL 
logo. 

Intranslt  Visibility 

All  of  the  packages  sorted  at  the  hub  had,  as  a 
minimum,  one  barcoded  label.  Many  customers  placed  their 


139 


cnm  barcoded  labels  on  packages  for  their  internal  use. 

While  each  l€d)el  was  visually  inspected  for  the  proper 
regional  and  three  letter  airport  codes /  no  scanning  of  the 
barcodes  was  observed  at  the  superhub. 

Operations  Interface 

Once  a  container  or  a  pallet  was  filled  with  cargo,  it 
was  weighed.  When  several  (usually  four)  containers  for  the 
same  aircraft  were  filled,  they  were  transported  to  the 
aircraft  by  pallet  dollies  and  tugs.  When  all  of  the  cargo 
for  a  particular  aircraft  was  loaded  into  containers  or  onto 
pallets,  a  load  planner  completed  the  load  plan.  Meanwhile, 
moat  of  the  cargo  was  already  positioned  at  the  aircraft, 
thus  saving  critical  time  in  transporting  from  the  sort 
building  to  the  aircraft. 

Load  team  chiefs  and  supervisors  were  kept  edoreast  of 
normal  operations  and  any  changes  through  hand  held  radios. 
Once  all  of  the  cargo  for  an  aircraft  was  at  the  aircraft 
and  a  load  plan  was  complete,  the  load  teams  used  K- loaders 
to  upload  the  cargo. 

Unlike  other  air  cargo  carriers  observed,  DHL's  load 
teeuns  were  also  used  to  marshall  aircraft  into  and  out  of 
parking  spots  and  to  connect  ground  power  units  to  the 
aircraft.  This  saved  the  maintenance  personnel  for  only 
aircraft  maintenance  functions. 

A  crucial  part  of  DHL's  hub  operation  is  the  System 
Operations  Control  (SOC)  which  is  manned  by  one  person. 


140 


This  individual  provides  centralized  control  and  decision 
making  for  the  night's  operation.  Requests  to  "tail  swap" 
aircraft  (use  a  different  aircraft  for  a  particular  flight) , 
are  made  by  the  cargo  supervisors  (not  maintenance)  to  the 
SOC.  The  SOC  then  coordinates  these  types  of  requests  and 
makes  the  ultimate  decision. 

Safety 

Clothing  and  protective  gear  are  important  parts  of 
employee  safety.  Employees,  other  than  supervisors,  did  not 
have  a  uniform  or  any  apparent  dress  code,  but  they  were 
required  to  wear  sturdy  boots.  In  addition  to  the  boots, 
employees  who  worked  on  aircraft  or  on  the  aircraft  parking 
ramp  were  required  to  wear  hearing  protection  and  reflective 
gear. 

No  lift  belts  were  observed  on  any  employees,  and 
several  employees  were  observed  not  wearing  the  required 
protective  gear.  Cargo  gloves  were  optional,  with  some 
employees  wearing  the  gloves. 

Lighting  is  also  an  important  part  of  safety  during 
nighttime  operations.  Lighting  was  good  throughout  the  sort 
facility  and  on  the  primary  aircraft  parking  ramps.  The 
only  area  that  was  poorly  lit  was  the  large  cargo  area  where 
cargo  was  palletized. 

There  was  a  lot  of  vehicle  movement  on  the  aircraft 
parking  reunps.  Tugs  pulling  pallet  dollies  and  vans  with 
supervisory  personnel  were  constantly  in  motion,  but 


141 


everyone  was  safety  conscious.  All  vehicles  used 
headlights,  hazard  lights,  and  horns  to  let  people  know 
they  were  being  placed  in  motion.  While  there  were  no 
visible  walking  or  driving  lines,  most  of  the  vehicles  used 
the  aircraft  taxi  centerline. 

Interview 

Title  of  person (s)  interviewed <  Manager,  Systems 

Development  and  Industrial 
Engineering 

1.  What  type  of  cargo  do  you  specialise  in  handling  and 
what  other  types  of  cargo  do  you  handle? 

DHL  handles  three  types  of  cargo:  1)  letter 
material  (overnight)  or  small  material  which 
comprises  60  percent  of  their  total  cargo; 

2)  boxes,  larger  than  letter  material  and  up  to 
one  cubic  yard  in  size,  which  are  35  percent  of 
their  total  cargo;  and  3)  nonconveyable  material 
or  cargo  physically  too  big  or  too  heavy  to  be 
moved  on  the  conveyors.  This  type  of  cargo  is 
usually  referred  to  as  air  freight  and  comprises 
four  to  five  percent  of  DHL's  total  cargo. 

2.  Do  you  have  written  procedures  in  place  for  surge 
periods?  If  so,  are  these  company-wide,  regional,  or  local? 

Yes,  DHL  at  the  Cincinnati  hub  has  written 
procedures  that  specify  operations  for  any  level 
of  volume;  however,  these  procedures  are 
applicable  for  all  circumstances  and  not 


142 


specifically  for  surge  periods.  These  procedures 
are  based  on  Master  Standard  Data,  a  scientific 
methodology  used  to  determine  the  number  of  work 
hours  required  to  move  specific  amounts  of  cargo 
and  provide  very  specific  written  guidance. 

Surges  are  forecasted  just  like  any  other 
period.  A  ten  to  15  percent  increase  in  DHL's 
ramp  operations  is  not  considered  a  surge.  Cargo 
volume  may  vary  up  to  40  percent  on  a  given  night 
of  the  week.  Each  regional  hub  has  its  ovm 
procedures  for  surge  periods. 


3.  How  often  are  your  surge  plans  updated  and  do  you  ever 
test  your  plans? 

The  statistical  portion  of  the  Master 
Standard  Data  is  updated  bi-annually;  however,  the 
work  method  portion  of  the  Master  Standard  Data  is 
changed  whenever  the  physical  structure  of  the 
work  area  changes.  These  Master  Standard  Data 
plans  are  tested  prior  to  development  of  a 
training  program  for  actual  employees  who  operate 
within  the  new  work  environment.  The  work  methods 
are  designed  and  tested,  and  feedback  is  given  by 
a  sample  of  employees.  After  feedback  from  the 
sample  employees,  statistical  applications  are 
made  and  the  work  method  is  retested.  Following 
final  approval,  the  work  method  is  fully 
implemented. 


143 


Although  work  methods  for  increases  in  volume 


are  statistically  tested  and  forecasted  (using 
scientific  modeling)  to  determine  the  productivity 
of  a  given  work  area,  DBL  does  not  operationally 
test  procedures  during  surges  in  vrorkloads.  DHL 
uses  statistical  san^ling  to  determine  whether 
employees  in  a  given  work  area  are  performing  to 
previously  determined  capacity.  Saxqpling  of 
ea^loyees  is  conducted  a  few  times  each  month, 
dependent  upon  the  supervisor's  decision. 


4.  Nhat  effects  do  surges  have  on  your  cargo  handling 
equipsMnt? 

Surges  have  no  physical  effect  on  DHL's  cargo 
handling  equipment.  Machinery  is  built  to  such 
high  quality  standards  that  surges  have  no 
physical  intact  on  the  equipment.  However,  surge 
periods  do  strain  the  capacity  of  the  equipment  if 
logistical  operations  are  not  in  the  right  order 
(i.e.  if  people /managers  are  not  in  the  right 
place  at  the  right  time  or  are  not  controlling 
resources  properly,  this  ultimately  diminishes  the 
capacity  of  the  machinery).  Therefore,  DHL  uses 
93  percent  as  the  stated  capacity  of  their 
equipment  to  accommodate  any  factors  that 
influence  the  control  of  its  resources. 


5.  Zf  •ztra  aqulpMnt  is  n««d«d,  do  you  obtain  it  through 
la-houaa  rasourcaa  or  by  contract?  Do  you  go  through 
ooavany-wlda,  regional,  or  local  channals? 

Depending  on  the  requirement,  DHL  uses  both 
in-house  and  contracted  resources  to  acquire 
additional  equipment.  In-house  resources  are  used 
first  and,  if  necessary,  equipment  is  contracted 
from  outside  sources.  All  decisions  to  obtain 
extra  equipment  for  the  main  hub  or  any  regional 
hub  within  the  continental  United  States,  either 
through  in-house  or  contract  sources,  are 
centralized  at  the  main  hub  in  Cincinnati.  Every 
alternative  is  explored  and  cost  factors  are 
weighed  heavily  in  any  decision  to  obtain  extra 
equipment . 

DHL  will  also  borrow  equipment  from  other 
airlines  and  have  reciprocity  with  the  equipment. 

This  does  not  cost  any  money  and  helps  accommodate 
any  surges  in  workload  when  equipment  is  needed. 

6.  During  surge  periods,  bow  do  your  personnel  levels 
change? 

After  forecasting  the  surge  level,  DHL 
adjusts  manning  levels  up  or  down  commensurate 
with  any  changes  in  volume  due  to  a  surge  or  slow 
period.  If  necessary,  more  people  are  hired  or 


7.  Do  you  go  through  c<»qpany-«rldo,  rogional,  or  local 
ohannala  to  gat  additional  parsonnal?  Ara  thay  hirad  as 
part'-tlaa  or  full-tiaa? 

Requirenents  for  additional  personnel  are 

approved  by  the  corporate  office  (in  Redwood  City, 

CA) ;  however,  any  requirenents  for  replacement 

personnel  are  handled  at  the  Cincinnati  hub.  Sort 

and  ranq)  employees  are  hired  as  part-time  workers, 

while  pilots  are  hired  on  a  full-time  basis.  The 

overall  goal  is  to  keep  costs  down— DHL's  budget 

is  developed  for  the  number  of  hours  worked  and 

not  the  number  of  enployees.  During 

Christmas,  blanket  approval  is  given  by  the 

corporate  office  for  the  Cincinnati  hub  to 

hire  more  personnel  (with  an  upper  control 

limit  on  the  amount) . 

8.  How  do  you  train  these  additional  ei^»loyees  and  is  there 
a  learning  curve  associated  with  this  training? 

Additional  temporary  employees  hired  for 

surge  periods  are  not  given  the  depth  of  training 

as  permanent  enq>loyees;  however,  they  are  given 

sufficient  levels  of  training  to  perform  their 

assigned  duties — which  are  usually  simplistic  in 

nature 

Yes,  there  is  a  learning  curve  associated 
with  training  all  employees.  DHL  expects  new 
employees  to  be  80  percent  proficient  with  their 
job  during  the  first  month,  90  percent  proficient 


during  the  second  snnth/  and  100  percent 
proficient  by  the  third  aonth.  These  proficiency 
levels  are  the  sasw  for  both  tes^mrary  and 
peraanent  es^loyees. 

9.  loir  do  you  aaasttre  the  effectiveness  of  your  day-to-day 
cargo  handling  operatimis? 

Two  foms  of  Bwasureaent  are  used  by  DHL: 
effectiveness  of  the  overall  airline's  perfomance 
and  productivity  of  sort  and  rai^  operations. 
Effectiveness  of  the  overall  airline  perfomance 
is  based  upon  on-time  arrivals.  The  determining 
factor  of  the  airline's  performance  is  whether  or 
not  the  aircraft  arrives  at  its  intended 
destination  (within  a  15  minute  timeframe)  so  that 
DHL  esqployees  are  able  to  deliver  the  packages  on 
time. 

Effectiveness  of  productivity  within  the  sort 
and  ramp  operations  is  based  upon  a  pieces  per 
hour  target  of  204.  Daily,  monthly,  and  annual 
productivity  reports  are  analyzed.  On  a  daily 
basis,  supervisors  are  given  productivity  reports 
from  the  previous  night  and  are  required  to  brief 
the  information  to  their  employees  for  timely 
feedback.  Annual  productivity  reports  are  also 
coaq>ared  to  operations  during  the  same  time  period 
of  the  previous  year. 

There  is  some  correlation  between  the  two 


147 


•ffectlveness  measures.  For  exaiqile,  if  sort 
operations  are  slow,  this  usually  reflects  in  the 
airline  performance  of  on-tisM  aircraft  arrivals. 

10.  Icnr  do  you  measure  the  effectiveness  of  your  cargo 
handling  operations  during  surges? 

The  earn  day-to-day  effectiveness  measurements  are 

used  during  surge  periods. 


148 


Appendix  I:  Burlington  Air  Express 
<H>s«rTation 


Settlns 

Burlington's  Toledo,  Ohio  hub  was  the  setting  of  a  June 
1993  tour  of  Burlington's  nighttine  hub  operations, 
i^proxiaately  22  aircraft  arrive  and  depart  Toledo  within  a 
four  hour  window  every  Monday  through  Friday  night.  During 
this  tisMfraae  the  Toledo  Airport  is  used  only  by 
Burlington;  there  is  no  other  airport  traffic.  Burlington 
uses  one  building  to  sort  all  of  the  incoming  and  outgoing 
cargo.  There  are  ten  entry  modules  into  this  sort  building, 
so  cargo  is  fed  into  and  out  of  the  facility  from  a  total  of 
ten  different  locations.  Each  module  is  decentralized  and 
personnel  within  a  module  unload  incoming  containers,  input 
cargo  into  the  sorting  process,  and  load  sorted  cargo  in 
containers.  Burlington  is  currently  expanding  to 
accosmiodate  more  modules. 

The  sort  facility  is  new,  very  clean  and  well-lit. 

White  walls  and  a  continuous  air  recycler  keep  the  work 
environment  clean.  Many  propane  forklifts  were  visible 
moving  into  and  out  of  the  sort  facility.  These  propane 
forklifts  also  helped  keep  the  air  clean. 

Outside  of  the  sort  facility  was  a  large,  well-lit 
aircraft  parking  ran^  on  which  aircraft  were  well-spaced  for 


149 


safety  reasons.  While  there  was  a  lot  of  activity  on  and 
around  each  aircraft,  safety  was  prevalent. 

Cargo  Bandllng  Eguipaent 

A  majority  of  the  cargo  that  Burlington  receives  is 
moved  in  fiberglass  cargo  containers  that  are  contoured  to 
the  shape  of  the  type  of  aircraft  on  which  it  will  be 
loaded.  These  containers  have  vinyl,  tarp-like  "door” 
openings  through  which  cargo  is  loaded  and  unloaded.  The 
"door”  comprises  the  entire  side  of  a  container.  These 
large  openings  allow  placement  of  any  piece  of  ceurgo  that 
can  physically  fit  into  a  container  without  wrestling  the 
through  a  small  door  opening. 

Pallet  dollies  are  used  to  transport  containers  to  and 
from  aircraft  to  the  sort  building.  A  maximum  of  four 
dollies  are  pulled  by  tugs.  When  the  dollies  with  loaded 
containers  reach  the  sort  building,  they  are  pushed  by  hand 
from  the  dollies  to  a  rollerized  sub-flooring.  Then,  the 
tug  takes  the  dollies  out  of  the  building  and  away  from  the 
sort  operation.  Once  a  container  is  on  the  rollerized 
flooring,  the  sort  procedure  takes  place. 

For  cargo  that  is  too  large  to  fit  into  a  container, 
forklifts  are  used  to  transport  it  to  a  large  cargo  buildup 
area.  As  mentioned  previously,  Burlington  uses  propane 
powered  forklifts  during  the  observation;  however,  in  an 
effort  to  improve  the  air  quality  within  the  sort  facility, 
Burlington  was  in  the  process  of  converting  to  electric- 


150 


powered  forklifts.  The  change  over  was  to  be  made  quickly 
because  Burlington  does  not  own  any  of  the  equipment  that  it 
operates;  they  lease  everything. 

Finally,  K-loaders  were  used  to  load  containers  and 
pallets  onto  the  aircraft.  Containers  and  pallets  are 
pushed  from  the  dollies  onto  the  K~loader  which  has 
rollerized  flooring.  Then,  two  containers  or  pallets  are 
raised  to  the  main  deck  of  the  aircraft  for  loading. 

Aircraft 

Burlington  Air  Express  leases  all  of  its  aircraft  and 
the  maintenance  of  its  aircraft.  They  currently  have  the 
following  number  and  types  of  leased  aircraft: 

2  Convair  580s 

7  727s 

18  DC-8s 

Small  Package  Sort 

Like  all  other  air  cargo  carriers  observed,  Burlington 
sorts  its  small  packages  several  times.  The  primary  sort  is 
sinqily  removing  cargo  from  an  incoming  container  and  sorting 
it  by  the  region  of  the  country  for  which  it  is  destined. 
Eventually,  all  cargo  is  sorted  by  a  three  letter  airport 
code,  then  loaded  into  outgoing  containers. 

All  cargo  that  is  small  enough,  and  has  no  rough  edges 
that  could  damage  the  conveyors,  is  sent  through  the  sort 
facility  on  a  conveyor  system  that  runs  throughout  the 
building.  Cargo  that  fits  into  a  container,  but  cannot  be 


151 


moved  on  the  conveyor,  is  transported  by  cart  or  forklift  to 
the  container  build-up  area. 

Large  Cargo  Handling 

Any  cargo  that  is  too  large  or  too  heavy  to  be  placed 
on  the  conveyor  belt  system  is  moved  by  forklift  to  a  pallet 
build-up  area.  Aluminum  aircraft  ceurgo  pallets  or  "cookie 
sheets"  are  used  for  shipping  large  pieces  of  cargo.  Single 
empty  pallets  are  placed  on  dollies,  then  cargo  is  placed  on 
top  of  the  pallet  using  a  forklift.  Once  a  pallet  is  full 
or  no  other  cargo  is  available  for  the  destination  of  that 
pallet,  it  is  covered  with  plastic  and  nets.  The  plastic  is 
for  temporary  protection  from  the  weather  since  a  pallet  is 
only  exposed  to  weather  for  a  few  minutes.  Once  a  sheet  of 
plastic  is  used,  it  not  reused  but  is  recycled. 

The  nets  used  are  commercial  air  cargo  nets  which 
resemble  a  thin  rope-type  net.  These  nets  are  placed  over 
the  cargo  to  provide  the  s€une  restraint  that  a  cargo 
container  would  provide  for  a  similar  load. 

When  cargo  is  extra  large  and  requires  more  than  one 
pallet  to  be  "married"  to  another  pallet,  the  pallets  are 
placed  on  a  movable  platform  that  can  also  be  transported  by 
tug.  Then  the  pallets  are  connected  by  a  coupler  and  built- 
up  the  same  way  as  a  single  pallet  is  built.  When  possible, 
instead  of  "marrying"  pallets  in  the  pallet  build-up  area, 
they  are  sometimes  connected  on  the  aircraft  for  ease  of 
transporting  on  the  aircraft  reunp. 


152 


Like  all  of  the  air  cargo  carriers  observed, 
Burlington's  ei^loyees  who  sort  and  load/unload  ceurgo  are 
part-tiaie  workers.  Both  male  euid  female  workers  were  seen 
in  all  areas  of  the  operation. 

Intranslt  Visibility 

Bach  package  going  through  the  Toledo  hub  had  a 
Burlington  barcoded  label.  Also,  customers  placed  their  own 
barcoded  labels  on  packages  for  their  internal  use.  While 
each  label  was  visually  inspected  for  the  proper  regional 
and  three  letter  airport  codes,  no  scanning  of  the  barcodes 
was  observed.  However,  Burlington  was  experimenting  with  a 
new  label  system  that  allows  sort  personnel  to  easily 
identify  overnight  cargo.  A  label  with  white  letters  on  a 
black  background  was  used  to  identify  overnight  cargo,  and  a 
l^d>el  with  black  letters  on  a  white  background  was  used  for 
non-overnight  packages . 

Operations  Interface 

Personnel  loading  cargo  containers  at  the  end  of  the 
modules  are  also  responsible  for  load  planning.  A  load 
planner  enters  the  weight  of  the  containers  or  pallets  on  a 
weight  and  balance  worksheet,  and  when  all  containers  and/or 
pallets  for  an  aircraft  are  weighed,  the  final  load  plan  is 
accoB^lished . 

Cargo  upload  tecuos  receive  pre-load  plans  via  radio 
from  load  planning  personnel  before  all  containers  have  been 


weighed.  Once  a  load  plan  is  finalized,  load  teams  receive 
final  load  plans  via  radio,  and  they  also  receive  a  paper 
copy.  Then,  the  load  planner  goes  out  to  the  aircraft  on 
which  the  cargo  is  to  be  loaded  and  briefs  the  outbound 
aircrew.  If  there  are  still  more  containers  to  be  loaded  in 
that  load  planner's  module,  then  he/she  goes  back  to  the 
sort  facility  and  continues  loading  containers. 

Fully  loaded  containers  on  dollies  are  positioned  next 
to  departing  aircraft  when  a  load  plan  is  convicted.  Any 
available  load  team  loads  any  aircraft  that  has  a  cargo  load 
positioned  next  to  it.  This  allows  load  teams  to  prioritize 
early  departures,  then  work  on  any  other  loads  that  are 
ready  early.  Also,  work  teams  from  each  of  the  ten  modules 
that  load  cargo  into  the  containers  and  remove  the  cargo 
from  the  containers  for  sorting,  work  on  the  aircraft  ramp 
at  the  end  of  their  shift.  These  employees  give  the  load 
teams  extra  help  if  needed. 

Safety 

Clothing  and  protective  gear  are  i]iq>ortant  parts  of  an 
employee  safety  program.  Employees  are  issued  uniforms  by 
Burlington.  These  uniforms  consist  of  black  pants,  green 
T-shirts,  steel-toe  boots,  cargo  gloves,  and  lift  belts. 
Employees  working  outside  on  aircraft  and  on  the  parking 
ramp  are  required  to  wear  reflective  gear  and  hearing 
protection. 


154 


At  the  beginning  of  the  work  shift,  teams  from  each 
module  and  load  teams  do  calisthenics  to  loosen  muscles  to 
help  prevent  injuries.  Coupled  with  the  good  lighting  and 
the  clean  air  in  the  sort  facility,  working  conditions 
observed  are  very  good  and  safe. 

New  orange,  electric  forklifts  will  help  keep  the 
forklifts  easily  visible.  Also,  all  vehicle  drivers 
observed  were  very  safety  conscious  even  though  activities 
were  always  fast-paced. 

Interview 

Title  of  person (s)  interviewed:  Manager,  Hub  Night 

Operations 

1.  Ifhat  type  of  cargo  do  you  specialize  in  handling  and 
what  other  types  of  cargo  do  you  handle? 

Burlington's  specialty  is  in  the  movement  of 
large,  oversized,  heavy  weight  cargo;  however,  any 
type  or  size  of  cargo  is  accepted  for  shipment. 
Approximately  78  percent  of  Burlington's  cargo 
weighs  less  than  70  pounds  and  the  remaining 
22  percent  is  " awkward/heavier  freight"  that 
cannot  be  moved  on  their  conveyor  system  but  is 
moveeUale  by  forklift.  This  awkward /heavier 
freight  comprises  50  percent  of  Burlington's  total 
volume . 


155 


2.  Do  you  havo  wrltton  procoduroa  in  placo  for  surgo 
porlods?  If  so,  ars  thosa  ooa^any-wlda,  raglonal,  or  local? 

Burlington  has  con^any-wide  written 
procedures  called  "Eun^  Procedures”  which  were 
established  for  handling  overloads  (not 
necessarily  surges  in  workload) .  ”Buinping”  cargo 
refers  to  rerouting  or  removing  cargo  from  a 
scheduled  aircraft  route.  These  Bua^  Procedures 
are  guidelines  that  show  which  customers  must  be 
serviced  in  the  event  of  a  contingency. 

There  are  three  levels  of  bun^  procedures 
that  provide  alternate  cities  for  routing  cargo  in 
the  event  that  a  surge  in  workload  causes  the 
cargo  to  be  bumped  off  the  aircraft.  The  three 
levels  of  structure  in  the  Bump  Procedures 
include:  1)  using  the  existing  aircraft  fleet  and 

route  structure  to  move  the  cargo  to  its  final 
destination;  2)  using  spare  aircraft  that  are 
always  available  (if  spare  aircraft  are  not 
available,  Burlington  will  lease  more  aircraft 
when  necessary);  and  3)  holding  the  cargo  at  the 
hub  for  movement  by  truck  to  Detroit  where  it  is 
sent  out  via  commercial  aircraft  (leased  space) . 
Burlington  usually  knows  by  2200  hours  whether  or 
not  they  will  have  to  use  their  Bump  Procedures. 


156 


3.  Eoif  oftan  ara  your  surga  plans  updatad  and  do  you  avar 
tast  your  plans? 

Burlington's  Bump  Procedures  are  updated  as 
needed;  usually,  these  updates  are  conducted  every 
other  month.  The  procedures  are  continually 
tested  as  Burlington  guarantees  delivery  to  its 
customers.  Customers  who  want  to  move  cargo 
weighing  1,000  pounds  or  more  are  required  to  send 
advanced  notice  to  Burlington.  This  information 
is  placed  on  Burlington's  LOTUS  spreadsheet 
program  and  quickly  alerts  operational  managers  to 
any  potential  hot  spots  (any  requirements  to  use 
bunq)  procedures)  so  they  may  plan  accordingly. 

4.  Ifbat  effects  do  surges  have  on  your  cargo  handling 
equlpsMnt? 

None.  Burlington  has  spare  Ground  Support 
Equipment  (GSE)  for  each  function.  The  spare  GSE 
is  referred  to  as  "Hot  Spares"  and  includes 
equipment  that  is  not  normally  scheduled  for  use. 
Also,  Burlington's  modular  hub  design  allows  even 
distribution  of  cargo  throughout  the  warehouse  and 
eliminates  bottlenecks. 

5.  If  extra  equipsMnt  is  needed,  do  you  obtain  it  through 
In-house  resources  or  by  contract?  Do  you  go  through 
coiqpany-wlde,  regional,  or  local  channels? 

Burlington  primarily  uses  local  channels  to 
obtain  extra  equipment.  Aiiy  extra  equipment,  to 
include  specialized  equipment  for  their  aircraft. 


157 


is  leased  from  vendors  located  within  the  Toledo, 
Ohio  area. 

Extra  equipment  required  at  regional  hubs 
(outside  of  Toledo)  is  also  obtained  within  the 
local  area  of  the  regional  hub.  However, 

Burlington  uses  centralized  management  emd 
requires  approval  at  the  main  hub  in  Toledo  when 
extra  equipment  is  leased  by  the  regional  hubs  . 

6.  During  surge  periods,  how  do  your  personnel  levels 
change? 

Burlington's  staffing  fluctuates  monthly 
based  on  projected  and  actual  volume.  Burlington 
has  three  categories  of  part-time  personnel: 

1)  regular  part-time  employees,  approximately  440 
people,  who  work  every  night  (Monday  through 
Friday ) ;  2)  scheduled  casual  employees , 

approximately  70  people,  who  work  every  other 
night;  and  3)  contingent  employees,  approximately 
100  people,  who  are  on  call. 

7.  Do  you  go  through  coi^>any-wide,  regional,  or  local 
channels  to  get  additional  personnel?  Are  they  hired  as 
part-time  or  full-time? 

Local  channels  are  used  to  obtain  additional 
personnel  at  the  Toledo  hub.  The  Human  Resources 
Department  is  located  in  the  Toledo  hub  and 
selects  employees  from  the  large  employee  base 
within  the  Toledo  area.  These  additional 


158 


en^loyees  are  hired  as  part-time  employees.  Any 
requirements  for  managerial  or  supervisory 
positions  at  the  Toledo  hub  are  announced  nation¬ 
wide. 

8.  How  do  you  train  these  additional  eaqployees  and  is  there 
a  learning  curve  associated  with  this  training? 

All  Burlington  employees  hired  for  cargo 
operations  receive  the  same  training.  The 
training  process  is  one  week  long  with  one 
supervisor  assigned  to  train  four  new  employees. 

In  order  to  give  a  good  overview  of  all  areas, 
Burlington's  employees  are  rotated  through  various 
areas  (i.e.  loading  aircraft,  building-up  of  cargo 
in  containers,  conveyors,  and  trucks)  and  receive 
classroom  and  h£uids-on  experience  within  each 
area. 

9.  How  do  you  SMSSure  the  effectiveness  of  your  day-to-day 
cargo  handling  operations? 

Burlington  uses  time  standards  to  measure  the 
effectiveness  of  their  cargo  handling  operations. 

All  aspects  of  the  sort  and  aircraft  loading 
operation  are  timed.  For  exeunple,  time 
measurements  are  made  of  aircraft  uploads, 
aircraft  downloads,  truck  downloads,  build-up  of 
containers,  weighing  of  containers,  and  aircraft 
start  up.  These  time  standards  are  compared  to 
the  amount  of  volume  handled  to  develop 


159 


productivity  standards  for  the  entire  hub 
operation.  Productivity  is  measured  in  pieces  per 
manhour  with  a  heavy  emphasis  on  time  due  to  the 
sense  of  urgency  to  deliver  the  cargo  at  the 
proper  time  and  to  the  proper  place. 

10.  How  do  you  measure  the  effectiveness  of  your  cargo 
handling  operations  during  surges? 

Burlington's  measurements  of  effectiveness 
during  surges  are  the  same  as  their  day-to-day 
cargo  handling  operation.  The  only  difference  is 
that  more  people  and  resources  are  required  to 
handle  the  increase  in  volume — effectiveness  is 
still  measured  by  pieces  per  manhour. 


160 


Appendix  J:  C9ygr  AiC 


Obeerratioii 


Setting 

The  436th  Aerial  Port  Squadron  at  Dover  Air  Force  Base, 
Delaware  was  the  setting  of  a  June  1993  tour  of  daytime 
operations.  Because  of  the  worldwide  scope  and  mission  of 
the  Air  Force,  the  number  of  aircraft  handled  at  the  aerial 
port  varies  from  day  to  day.  Although  daytime  and  nighttime 
cargo  handling  operations  are  essentially  similar — they  are 
both  subject  to  change  from  one  day  to  the  next. 

Dover  has  one  very  large  building  which  houses  all  of 
the  aerial  port's  functional  cargo  areas.  The  inside  of 
this  building  is  set  up  like  a  warehouse  with  different 
sections  separated  by  interior  walls.  The  major  sections 
observed  were  inbound  freight,  outbound  freight,  and  ramp 
services.  Functions  of  these  areas  will  be  discussed  later. 

The  interior  of  Dover's  cargo  facility  was  like  a 
warehouse,  but  exterior  lighting  was  not  observed  since  this 
observation  was  conducted  during  the  day.  The  outside  of 
this  facility  was  surrounded  by  a  large  aircraft  parking 
ran^  on  one  side  and  a  parking  lot  on  the  other  side.  (The 
peirking  lot  could  also  be  cleared  of  vehicles  and  used  to 
store  cargo  awaiting  airlift) .  The  majority  of  the  aircraft 
ramp  space  was  occupied  by  C-5  aircraft,  although  C-141s  and 
C-1308  were  also  parked  on  the  ramp. 


161 


Dover  has  a  separate  explosives  storage  facility  which 
is  located  several  niles  from  the  main  cargo  facility,  on 
the  other  side  of  the  runway.  This  building  is  new,  well- 
lit,  and  very  clean.  It  was  set  up  like  a  warehouse  with 
truck  docks  and  automated  dock  levelers.  The  air  inside  of 
this  facility  is  continuously  recycled.  Security  is 
enhanced  by  using  motion  detectors  connected  to  an  alarm 
systcuB.  However,  armed  guards  are  required  for  som 
sensitive  shipments. 

With  the  changing  schedules  and  varying  missions 
handled  by  the  Air  Force,  operations  at  Dover  differ  from 
the  commercial  air  cargo  carriers.  Unlike  the  air  cargo 
industry  leaders,  Dover  has  the  responsibility  of 
transporting  passengers  in  addition  to  cargo.  Accommodating 
passengers  with  cargo  on  board  military  aircraft  often 
changes  how  cargo  is  loaded  and  what  type  of  cargo  is 
loaded. 

Cargo  Handling  Equipment 

Forklifts  of  varying  types  and  sizes  are  used 
extensively  in  Dover's  aerial  port.  Gas,  diesel,  and 
propane  forklifts  capable  of  handling  4,000  (4K)  and  10,000 
(lOK)  pounds  were  observed  in  operation  both  inside  and 
outside  of  the  cargo  handling  facility.  Forklifts  were  used 
to  move  both  large  pieces  of  cargo  and  cargo  pallets. 

The  pallets  used  by  Dover  and  the  rest  of  the 
Department  of  Defense  (DOD)  are  aluminum  covered  balsa  wood. 


162 


In  ccMftarison  to  pallets  used  by  the  ciiB—nrcial  air  cargo 
carriers  observed,  these  pallets  are  much  thicker  and 
sturdier  with  approximately  two  inches  of  depth  to  each 
pallet.  These  pallets,  called  463L  pallets,  can  hold  up  to 
10,000  pounds  of  cargo,  and  have  metal  rings  to  which  cargo 
restraint  straps  are  attached. 

Unlike  the  cosmwrcial  air  cargo  carriers,  Dover  does 
not  receive,  sort,  and  ship  out  all  of  the  cargo  on  a  daily 
basis.  Depending  on  the  cargo's  destination,  frequency  of 
flights,  and  the  cargo  priority,  some  cargo  may  be  held  at 
Dover  for  over  a  week. 

To  store  pallets  of  cargo,  Dover  has  an  autosiated 
system  known  as  the  Mechanized  Material  Handling  System 
(MMHS).  The  MMHS  is  a  computerized  storage  and  picking 
system  that  allows  one  operator  to  store  or  pick  (retrieve 
cargo  for  shipment)  up  to  450  pallets.  Up  to  two  married 
pallets  (pallets  connected  together  with  couplers)  can  also 
be  stored  and  picked  by  this  system.  The  MMHS  uses  multi¬ 
level  storage  racks  with  positions  marked  for  each  pallet. 

A  movable  vehicle  capable  of  holding  two  pallets  is  "driven" 
by  an  operator  on  a  track  which  runs  the  length  of  the  cairgo 
facility.  The  operator  enters  the  storage  location  (of  the 
pallet  to  be  picked  or  stored)  into  the  vehicle's  on-board 
coBq>uter.  Then,  the  MMHS  takes  over  and  transports  the 
operator  and  the  vehicle  to  the  proper  location.  From 
there,  a  pallet  can  either  be  placed  in  the  storage 
location,  or  be  pulled  (picked)  from  the  location. 


163 


Autoouited  rollers  on  the  vehicle  and  in  the  storage 
locations  are  used  to  transfer  pallets  to  and  from  the 
vehicle  and  storage  location. 

Military  K-loaders  (different  from  civilian  K~loaders) 
are  used  to  transport  cargo  from  the  MMHS  to  the  aircraft. 
Most  operations  use  two  types  of  K-loaders  to  load  and 
offload  both  military  and  some  civilian  aircraft.  The 
2 5K- loader  has  roller! zed  flooring  and  is  capeJale  of  holding 
up  to  three  pallets  or  25,000  pounds.  The  40K-loader  also 
has  rollerized  flooring  and  can  hold  up  to  five  pallets  or 
40,000  pounds. 

Pallets  are  placed  on  the  loader  with  forklifts  or  are 
pushed  off  of  rollerized  storage  docks  onto  the  K-loader. 
(When  cargo  is  moved  from  the  MMHS  to  be  uploaded  on  an 
aircraft,  it  is  first  moved  by  forklift  from  the  end  of  the 
MMHS  to  the  docks,  which  have  rollers,  so  that  pallets  can 
be  pushed  easily  by  hand  or  automatically  by  drive  wheels ) . 
Once  a  K-loader  is  full  and  is  driven  to  an  aircraft,  the 
entire  K-loader  is  raised  to  the  level  of  the  aircraft 
loading  xamp.  Then,  cargo  is  pushed  off  of  the  K-loader (s) 
and  onto  the  aircraft. 

Since  military  K-loaders  cannot  reach  the  top  (main) 
decks  of  large  commercial  aircraft,  Dover  uses  commercial- 
type  loaders,  called  TA-40s,  to  work  those  aircraft. 

Loading  operations  require  using  the  military  K-loaders  or 
forklifts  to  transport  the  cargo  to  and  from  the  aircraft. 
Then,  the  TA-40  is  used  to  move  up  to  two  pallets  from  the 


164 


level  of  the  K-loader  to  the  top  deck  of  the  aircraft. 
Finally,  the  cargo  is  pushed  onto  a  K-loader.  This  process 
is  reversed  when  off-loading  the  commercial  aircraft. 

Dover  was  to  receive  a  60K-loader  shortly  after  the 
observation  took  place.  The  60K-loader  holds  up  to  six 
pallets  or  60,000  pounds  and  reaches  the  top  deck  of  a  DC- 10 
or  B-7 4 7— capabilities  that  the  25  and  40K-loaders  do  not 
possess. 

Aircraft 

The  Air  Force  has  a  fleet  of  C-130,  C-141,  and  C-5 
aircraft  that  transport  a  majority  of  the  DOD's  airlift 
cargo.  There  are  C-5  aircraft  stationed  at  Dover  AFB,  but 
they  also  have  C-1418  and  C-lSOs  transiting  the  base. 

Because  worldwide  situations  change  daily,  the  number  and 
type  of  aircraft  at  a  particular  location  change  daily.  For 
exeui^le,  Dover  may  be  required  to  load/unload  KC-10,  KC- 
135,  or  any  type  of  aircraft  that  transits  the  base.  This 
includes  commercial  aircraft  such  as  DC-lOs  and  B-7478  that 
are  contracted  to  move  DOD  cargo. 

The  C-5s  that  are  stationed  (home-based)  at  Dover  are 
maintained  on  the  base,  except  for  major  maintenance  which 
is  consolidated  at  depot  repair  facilities.  Any  military 
aircraft  that  transit  Dover  can  receive  minor,  enroute 
maintenance,  but  the  majority  of  maintenance  work  is 
accomplished  at  an  aircraft's  home  base.  Any  civilian 
aircraft  that  transit  Dover  are  maintained  by  the  contracted 


air  carrier  or  their  representative.  Military  maintenance 
personnel  do  not  service  commercial  aircraft. 

Small  Package  Sort/Large  Cargo  Handling 

Because  all  cargo  is  handled  in  essentially  the  same 
manner,  these  two  areas  are  combined.  Dover  moves 
everything  from  letters  or  documents  to  M1A2  tanks,  yet  the 
process  is  the  same.  If  cargo  can  fit  onto  a  single  pallet 
or  married  pallets  (up  to  five  pallets  hooked  together  by 
couplers),  it  is  palletized.  Some  small  vehicles,  such  as 
sedans  or  pickup  trucks,  can  also  be  palletized,  but  these 
types  of  vehicles  are  normally  driven  directly  onto  the 
aircraft.  (Note:  vehicle  loading  was  not  observed  during 
this  visit ) . 

When  cargo  first  arrives  at  the  aerial  port,  it  is 
either  taken  out  of  trucks  or  off  of  inbound  pallets  and 
segregated  by  location.  Cargo  for  varying  locations  is 
stored  in  cargo  "bays"  which  are  separate  areas  inside  of 
the  freight  facility.  Cargo  arriving  by  truck  is  put  in  the 
outbound  (export)  section  of  the  facility,  and  cargo 
arriving  by  aircraft  is  put  in  the  inbound 

(iit^ort/ retrograde)  section  of  the  facility.  The  cargo  bays 
were  not  marked  by  destination  due  to  the  constantly 
changing  needs  of  the  DOD.  For  example,  before  the  Gulf 
War,  there  was  very  little  cargo  destined  for  Saudi  Arabia. 
During  this  observation  period,  there  were  separate  bay 
locations  for  several  cities  and  military  installations  in 


66 


Saudi  AreUaia.  Even  though  these  bays  were  not  narked,  all 
personnel  observed  were  familiar  with  the  locations. 

When  there  is  enough  cargo  in  a  "bay"  location  to  fill 
one  pallet  or  when  there  is  an  aircraft  mission  planned,  all 
of  the  cargo  in  that  bay  is  palletized.  When  cargo  is 
palletized,  the  eo^ty  military  cargo  pallet  (a  463L  pallet) 
is  placed  on  three  pieces  of  wooden  dunnage.  The  dunnage  is 
required  so  that  a  forklift  can  easily  pick  up  a  built-up 
pallet  (a  pallet  loaded  with  cargo)  and  to  prevent  a  pallet 
from  being  warped  by  the  weight  of  the  cargo.  Then,  cargo 
is  placed  on  the  pallet  until  there  is  no  other  cargo  for 
that  pallet's  destination,  until  the  pallet  is  full 
(contoured  to  the  shape  of  the  aircraft  on  which  it  is  to  be 
loaded),  or  until  the  pallet  weighs  10,000  pounds. 

After  a  pallet  is  filled  with  cargo,  a  thick  plastic 
bag  is  placed  over  the  cargo.  Plastic  is  used  to  protect 
the  cargo  from  inclement  weather  since  pallets  are  sometimes 
stored  outside  for  several  days  or  even  weeks.  Then, 
military  cargo  nets  with  hooks  are  placed  on  the  pallet  to 
secure  the  cargo.  Nets  come  in  a  set  which  consists  of  two 
side  nets  and  one  top  net.  In  comparison  to  the  commercial 
c2u:go  carriers,  these  nets  are  made  of  strong  nylon  straps 
which  hook  together  and  attach  (hook)  onto  metal  rings  along 
the  bottom  edge  of  the  pallet. 

Once  pallets  are  built  they  are  weighed.  Then, 
information  about  the  pallet,  such  as  the  pallet 
identification  and  weight,  are  entered  into  a  computer. 


167 


This  con^uter  also  contains  a  manifest  of  all  cargo  placed 
on  that  pallet.  Then,  pallets  are  stored  by  using  the  MMHS 
or  by  placing  pallets  in  a  marked  grid  yard  if  there  is  no 
space  in  the  MMHS. 

Bi^loyees 

Both  military  and  civilian,  male  and  female  personnel 
work  at  Dover's  aerial  port.  There  are  more  military 
personnel  than  civilians,  and  all  personnel  are  full-time 
employees.  During  this  observation,  all  cargo  (air  freight) 
personnel  in  the  aeri<  1  port  were  working  eight  hour  shifts; 
however,  this  was  changed  just  prior  to  the  observation. 

For  the  past  two  and  a  half  years,  the  military  personnel 
were  working  12  hour  shifts. 

During  the  observation,  Dover’s  manpower  increased  due 
to  an  annual  exercise,  PATRIOT  PARTNER,  with  Air  Force 
Reserve  personnel.  PATRIOT  PARTNER  provides  training  for 
the  Reserves  by  allowing  them  to  work  in  all  areas  of  the 
aerial  port  squadron. 

Zntranslt  Visibility 

The  Air  Force  uses  several  computer  systems  to  track 
DOD  air  cargo  shipments.  Until  recently,  two  separate 
procedures  were  used  to  track  peacetime  and  wartime  air 
cargo  shipments.  Now  the  same  procedure  is  used  for  all 
shipments . 

Once  cargo  arrives  at  the  aerial  port,  either  by  truck 
or  aircraft,  cargo  tracking  information  is  input  into  a 


168 


coB^uter.  When  this  cargo  is  put  on  a  pallet ,  the  computer 
is  updated  to  reflect  that  the  cargo  is  palletized.  Also, 
when  this  palletized  cargo  is  loaded  on  an  aircraft,  the 
computer  is  again  updated.  Finally,  when  the  aircraft 
departs,  the  computer  is  updated  a  final  time.  All  of  these 
computer  updates  are  made  by  either  cargo  processing 
personnel  or  by  a  load  planner.  Any  aerial  port  in  the  Air 
Force  has  the  capediility  to  trace  any  piece  of  cargo  once  it 
enters  the  airlift  system. 

Operations  Interface 

The  load  planning  function  was  not  observed  at  Dover, 
but  it  is  essentially  the  same  as  that  of  other  aerial  ports 
in  which  the  observers  have  worked.  Once  pallets  are  built, 
the  personnel  building  the  pallets  update  the  computer 
system  to  show  that  a  pallet  is  ready  for  airlift.  Then, 
load  planners  use  the  computer  to  decide  which  pallets  will 
be  loaded  on  an  aircraft.  This  decision  is  based  on  the 
cargo's  priority  and  space  available  on  the  aircraft. 

Before  completing  the  final  weight  and  balance  of  an 
aircraft's  load,  the  load  planners  are  required  to 
physically  look  at  each  cargo  pallet  to  ensure  it  is  built 
properly. 

Once  a  load  plan  is  complete,  (including  the  sequence 
of  the  pallets,  weight,  and  balance),  load  planning  contacts 
the  outbound  (export)  freight  section.  At  Dover,  outbound 
freight  personnel  are  then  responsible  for  sequencing  the 


169 


pallets  as  specified  in  the  load  plan.  (At  other  aerial 
ports,  ramp  services  accomplishes  this) .  If  the  pallets  are 
stored  in  the  MMHS,  then  the  MMHS  is  used  to  "pick”  the 
pallets  and  place  them  at  the  end  of  the  freight  facility. 
Then  a  forklift  is  used  to  place  these  pallets  on  hi-line 
(or  finger)  docks.  These  docks  have  rollers  so  that  pallets 
can  be  pushed  easily  by  hand  or  automatically  by  drive 
wheels.  If  pallets  are  stored  in  a  grid  yard,  they  are  also 
moved  by  forklifts  to  hi-line  docks. 

When  a  load  is  sequenced  in  the  proper  upload  order,  it 
is  considered  "pulled” .  Then,  the  outbound  freight 
personnel  notify  Ramp  Services  (load  teams)  that  the  cargo 
is  pulled  and  ready  for  upload.  (All  load  teams  carry  hand¬ 
held  radios  tuned  to  the  aerial  port  frequency) .  The  load 
teams  then  push  the  pallets  from  the  hi-line  docks  onto  K- 
loaders,  and  the  K-loaders  are  driven  to  the  aircraft. 

Ramp  Services'  load  teams  can  load  some  aircraft 
without  any  assistance  from  aircrew  members  (called  Phase  II 
uploads),  but  all  C-5  aircraft  and  some  complicated  loads  on 
C-141s  and  C-130s  require  an  aircrew  member,  known  as  the 
loadmaster,  to  be  present.  The  loadmasters  do  not  work  for 
the  aerial  port,  but  they  do  assist  in  the  upload  and 
download  of  cargo.  (The  researchers  noted  that  none  of  the 
observed  commercial  air  cargo  carriers  have  a  comparable 
loadmaster  function) . 

Dover's  Air  Terminal  Operations  Center  (ATOC)  is  used 
to  coordinate  all  of  the  aerial  port's  functions.  The  ATOC 


170 


also  interfaces  with  the  Dover  Air  Force  Base  Command  Post. 
The  Command  Post  has  representatives  from  aircraft 
operations,  aircraft  maintenance,  and  the  aerial  port. 
Changes  in  aircraft  uploads /downloads,  maintenance  problems, 
the  request  for  loadmasters,  etc.  are  coordinated  through 
the  Command  Post  and  to  the  aerial  port. 

Safety 

Clothing  and  protective  gear  are  important  aspects  of 
an  employee  safety  program.  All  military  personnel  are 
required  to  wear  the  Battle  Dress  Uniform  (BDU) ,  while 
civilians  are  not  required  to  wear  uniforms.  All  cargo 
personnel  are  required  to  wear,  and  are  issued,  steel-toed 
boots  and  leather  cargo  gloves.  Also,  everyone  is  required 
to  wear  hearing  protection  while  on  aircraft  or  on  the 
outside  aircraft  ramps.  Reflective  gear  is  required  during 
hours  of  darkness.  Lifting  belts  are  optional,  but  are 
available  to  everyone.  All  personnel  at  Dover  were  observed 
wearing  the  required  protective  gear. 

Lighting,  another  important  safety  aspect,  was  poor 
inside  of  the  inbound  and  outbound  cargo  sections.  This 
poor  lighting  was  identified  by  management  and  a  workorder 
for  new  lighting  does  exist.  Neither  outside  lighting  nor 
nighttime  operations  were  observed. 

Vehicle  safety  both  inside  and  on  the  aircraft  parking 
ramps  was  observed.  All  vehicles  were  moving  very  slow  and 
seemed  to  be  observing  speed  limits.  Horns,  lights,  and 


171 


hand  signals  were  used  by  all  drivers  on  observed  vehicles. 
Even  though  there  were  no  visible  drive /walk  lines  on  the 
inside  or  outside  of  the  facility,  everyone  was  extremely 
cautious  and  safety-minded. 

Interview 

Title  of  person (s)  interviewed t  Squadron  Operations  Officer 

436th  Aerial  Port  Squadron 

Note:  Throughout  this  interview,  Dover  refers  to  the 
436th  APS  at  Dover  AFB  DE. 

1.  Ylhat  type  of  cargo  do  you  specialize  in  handling  and 
what  other  types  of  cargo  do  you  handle? 

Dover  handles  any  size,  shape,  dimension,  or 
weight  of  cargo.  Basically,  Dover  will  move  any 
type  of  cargo  that  the  shipper  (customer) 
requests.  Unlike  the  commercial  air  cargo 
carriers,  Dover  will  not  specify  the  size,  shape, 
and  weight  for  the  customer.  A  lot  of  the  cargo 
moved  by  Dover  is  heavy  cargo  which  is  referred  to 
as  "ugly  cargo" .  This  includes  outsized  cargo 
(that  will  not  fit  within  the  confines  of  a  normal 
463L  pallet),  pallet  trains,  vehicles,  tanks, 
explosives,  hazardous  materials,  etc.  Any  cargo 
that  is  air  eligible  can  be  moved  by  Dover. 

2.  Do  you  have  written  procedures  in  place  for  surge 
periods?  If  so,  are  these  company-^ide,  regional,  or  local? 

The  aerial  port  does  not  have  written 
procedures  on  how  to  operate  during  surges  from  an 


172 


aerial  port  perspective;  however,  there  are  plans 
developed  from  the  base  level  plans  and  programs 
perspective  on  how  the  entire  wing  at  Dover  AFB 
will  function  during  a  surge  period.  For  exeunple, 
the  plan  specifies  use  of  one  of  the  bay  locations 
at  the  aerial  port  during  surge  periods — this  area 
was  explicitly  built  during  Operation  DESERT 
SBIELD/STORM  to  handle  the  heavy  workload 
experienced  at  Dover  AFB. 

In  addition,  Dover  has  port2d>le  ran^s 
(rollerized  hi-line  docks).  War  Reserve  Material 
(WRM) ,  etc.  to  handle  any  added  volume  typically 
associated  with  a  surge  period.  These,  and  other 
specific  capabilities,  are  available  during  surge 
periods;  however,  the  specifics  on  operational  use 
of  these  surge  capabilities  are  not  in  writing. 
Instead,  these  surge  capabilities  are  known  as 
operational  requirements  that  are  continually 
maintained  rather  than  written. 

The  aerial  port  has  local  written  agreements 
in  place  with  specific  Air  Force  Reserve  units  who 
support  aerial  port  operations  during  surge 
periods.  Although  these  written  agreements 
include  specific  reserve  units  stationed  at 
Dover  AFB,  Headquarters  Air  Mobility  Command 


173 


(HQ  ANC)  "sources”  the  reservists  for  Dover  AFB;  thus, 
Dover  must  go  through  HQ  AMC  and  the  reserve 
counterparts  to  acquire  reserve  personnel. 


The  Air  Force  has  recently  reduced  the  amount 
of  regulatory  guidance  for  operations.  The 
concept  of  "empowerment"  has  led  to  more  general 
guidance  that  gives  more  latitude  to  operational 
managers.  Instead  of  the  commands  (e.g.  AMC) 
specifying  exactly  how  to  operate,  there  is  an 
anphasis  to  manage  the  operation  using  the  best 
means  possible.  For  example,  AFR  28-4,  USAF 
Mobility  Planning ,  is  being  phased  out  and 
superseded  by  Appendix  G  of  the  DOD  regulatory 
guidance — which  states  that  anything  that  enters 
the  defense  transportation  system  will  be  moved  in 
the  appropriate  manner. 


3.  How  often  are  your  surge  plans  updated  and  do  you  ever 
test  your  plans? 

Local  written  agreements  with  the  reserve 
aerial  ports  are  updated  annually.  Testing  of  the 
written  agreements  includes  training  with  the 
reserves  throughout  the  year.  Currently,  there  is 
a  large  reserve  aerial  port  unit  at  Dover  AFB  for 
their  two-week  annual  tour  in  support  of  PATRIOT 
PARTNER.  This  exercise  is  conducted  wit.i  the 
reserves  and  allows  them  to  train  as  if  they  were 
to  "take-over"  aerial  port  operations  from  the 


174 


active  duty  personnel.  This  is  only  one  exao^le 
of  training  with  the  reserves — training  with 
reserve  personnel  is  an  on-going  process  (weekly) . 

In  addition,  the  aerial  port's  6d}ility  to 
operate  in  a  surge  period  has  continually  been 
tested  during  real-world  events  such  as  Operation 
DESERT  SHIELO/STORM  and,  recently.  Operation 
RESTORE  HOPE. 

4.  Nhat  effects  do  surges  have  on  your  cargo  handling 
equipaent? 

Most  of  the  material  handling  equipment  (MBE) 
or  cargo  handling  equipment  used  at  Dover  is  very 
old  and  surge  periods  reduce  the  time  allowed  for 
preventative  maintenance  (decreases  the 
reliability  of  the  equipment).  In  conjunction 
with  the  age  of  the  equipment,  additional  use  of 
the  equipment  during  these  surges  in  workload  also 
increases  the  likelihood  of  breakage  of  the 
vehicles  ( out-of -commission ) .  Thus,  all  of  the 
MHE  is  affected  by  a  surge  in  workload — the  more 
the  equipment  is  used,  the  more  potential  there  is 
for  breakage. 

The  Air  Force  is  currently  upgrading  some  of 
the  MBE  to  reduce  the  potential  of  breakage. 

Unlike  a  civilian  company,  the  Air  Force  will  not 
buy  an  entire  integrated  system — instead,  the 
systems  will  continually  be  upgraded  and  some 


systems  are  integrated  with  different  systems. 

For  example,  Dover  had  a  number  of  pallet  dollies 
(similar  to  those  used  by  the  commercial  carriers) 
that  required  a  heavy  use  of  manpower  to  integrate 
this  system.  The  use  of  pallet  dollies  was  not 
practical  for  Dover  since  this  system  was  manpower 
intensive  when  integrated  with  the  current  MBS 
system  (military  K-loaders).  The  pallets  had  to 
be  turned  with  forklifts  and  loaded  on  the 
K-loaders  with  forklifts.  In  addition,  only  a  certain 
number  of  pallet  dollies  could  be  towed  at  one  time 
which  required  a  lot  of  manpower  and  time  to  move  the 
cargo  to  and  from  the  aircraft.  The  physical  distance 
to  and  from  the  aircraft  (large  amount  of  ramp  space) 
also  made  it  a  lengthy  process  to  shuttle  the  cargo 
with  pallet  dollies. 

Since  the  systems  are  brought  on-line  by  the 
Air  Force  in  intervals,  some  aspects  of  the  MBE 
systems  do  not  always  match  up  well  with  other 
systems.  One  exanqile  is  that  there  may  be  new 
K-loaders,  but  the  forklifts  used  in  conjunction  with 
the  K-loaders  are  old. 

Most  of  the  25K  and  40K-loaders  at  Dover  are 
very  old.  Due  to  the  type  of  aircraft  stationed 
at  Dover  (C-5's  with  36  pallet  positions),  the 
40K-loader,  more  so  than  the  25K-loader,  is  the 
primary  vehicle  used  to  load  and  off-load  cargo. 


176 


since  Bore  25K-loaders  (with  3  pallet  positions 
per  vehicle)  are  required  to  service  a  C-5 
aircraft,  Dover  relies  heavily  on  the  40K-loader 
(with  a  capacity  of  5  pallet  positions  per 
vehicle) .  However,  Dover  received  new  25K-loaders 
that  are  being  used  to  load  and  off-load  aircraft. 
There  have  been  some  adjustment  problems  with  the 
new  25K-loaders  (i.e.  the  operator's  cab  of  the 
vehicle  was  not  in  the  right  place  and  the  rails 
were  blocking  capability  to  tie-do%m  the  pallets 
to  the  vehicle);  but,  the  newer  models  received 
have  been  adjusted  to  alleviate  these  problems. 

Dover  is  scheduled  to  be  the  test-site  for 
the  new  60K-loader  (6  pallet  and  60,000  pound 
capability) .  This  vehicle  was  scheduled  to  arrive 
in  August  1993  and  is  viewed  as  a  tremendous 
enhancement  to  Dover's  capability  to  move  cargo 
due  to  the  size  of  aircraft  based  at  Dover. 

5.  If  extra  equipaent  is  needed,  do  you  obtain  it  through 
in-house  resources  or  by  contract?  Do  you  go  through  Air 
Force-wide,  regional,  or  local  channels? 

Dover  uses  both  in-house  (Air  Force)  and 
contract  resources  to  obtain  extra  equipment.  All 
requests  for  extra  equipment  first  go  through  the 
base  transportation  squadron  (Vehicle  Operations), 
and  any  requirements  for  additional  equipment  that 
are  not  availeUsle  at  Dover  are  justified  to 


177 


HQ  AHC.  HQ  AMC,  in  turn,  determines  if  resources  from 
other  bases  can  be  used  to  fulfill  Dover's  requirement 
for  extra  vehicles  during  a  surge  period.  If 
necessary,  the  vehicles  are  sourced  from  local 
contracts  (leased)  by  the  base  contracting  office  (and 
through  Vehicle  Operations)  with  HQ  AMC  approval. 

Short  term  requirements  (less  than  three  months)  to 
lease  extra  equipment  are  approved  at  HQ  AMC.  Long 
term  lease  requirements  (over  three  months)  are  sent 
through  HQ  AMC  and  then  approved  by  the  Air  Staff  at  US 
Air  Force  headquarters.  However,  the  vehicle 
authorization  process  used  by  the  Air  Force  requires 
justification  for  any  long-term  requirements.  If 
approved,  the  "authorization”  (versus  the  actual 
vehicle)  to  acquire  the  vehicle  is  given  to  the  unit. 
Thus,  if  there  is  a  long-term  need  for  a  vehicle,  this 
requirement  should  be  identified  in  order  to  establish 
a  permanent  authorization  that  eventually  results  in  a 
"vehicle  buy"  (procurement  of  the  vehicle) . 

Dover  has,  in  the  past,  resorted  to  leasing 
extra  equipment  to  support  surges  in  workload. 

For  example,  during  Operation  DESERT  SHIELD/STORM, 

Dover  was  heavily  tasked  to  ship  cargo  (in 
addition  to  deploying  personnel)  to  the  Persian 
Gulf.  In  addition  to  acquiring  equipment  from 
other  Air  Force  bases,  Dover  had  to  establish 
emergency  contracts  to  lease  some  equipment 


178 


(propane  forklifts  and  latrine  servicing  trucks — 

LSTs — that  are  used  to  clean  the  aircraft ) . 

Currently,  Dover  is  a  test  base  for  propane 
forklifts.  These  lOK  propane  forklifts  (10,000  pound 
capacity)  are  leased  on  a  long-term  basis  from  a  local 
contractor,  with  HQ  AMC  and  Air  Staff  approval,  in  an 
effort  to  in^rove  the  quality  of  air  within  the  cargo 
handling  facility.  In  con^arison  to  the  diesel 
forklifts  used  within  the  warehouse,  the  propane 
forklifts  have  cleaner  burning  fuel  when  serviced 
properly.  However,  when,  and  if,  the  long-term  lease 
of  propane  forklifts  becomes  a  vehicle  buy,  there  is 
still  a  requirement  for  diesel  forklifts  (propane 
forklifts  are  not  deployable  to  off-base  locations). 

In  addition  to  the  long-term  lease  of  propane 
forklifts,  Dover  also  has  commercial  TA-40's  which 
are  vehicles  used  to  load  and  off-load  cargo  on 
commercial  aircraft  (these  vehicles  are  similar  to 
the  K-loaders  used  by  commercial  air  cargo 
carriers).  The  TA-40s  are  leased  on  a  long-term 
basis  by  HQ  AMC  and  are  required  because  the 
military  25K  and  4 OK- loaders  cannot  reach  the 
upper  deck  on  B-747  aircraft  (and  other  commercial 
widebody  aircraft) . 


179 


6.  During  surgn  periods,  how  do  your  porsonnol  lovols 
ehnngo? 

In  order  to  accommodate  the  increase  in 
workload  during  surge  periods,  Dover  readjusts  its 
manning  to  12  hour  shifts.  However,  Dover  only 
recently  reverted  back  to  eight  hour  shifts  that 
were  in-place  prior  to  Operation  DESERT 
SHIELD/STORM.  There  are  still  some  areas  of  the 
aerial  port  that  are  still  on  12  hour  shifts.  If 
12  hour  shifts  are  necessary,  the  current  goal  is 
to  have  personnel  work  four  days  on  and  three  days 
off  with  overlapping  shifts  (e.g.  overlap  shifts 
of  personnel  working  grave  and  day  shifts ) .  Of 
course,  there  were  several  instances  during 
Operation  DESERT  SHIELD/STORM  where  personnel 
worked  six  days  on  and  one  day  off;  however,  this 
was  over  a  short  period  of  time.  People  are 
willing  to  do  whatever  is  necessary  to  overcome 
the  events  in  a  surge  period.  When  working  long 
shifts,  there  is  a  concern  for  safety  and,  if 
people  are  not  given  a  break,  productivity  will 
decrease  in  proportion  to  the  number  of  days  spent 
working  the  long  shifts  on  a  continual  basis.  It 
is  important  to  balance  safety  and  productivity 
issues  with  the  number  of  personnel  working. 

Due  to  the  increased  workload  that  Dover  has 
experienced  (cargo  moved  to  support  operations  in 


180 


Europe,  the  Middle  East,  and  Somalia),  along  with 
the  reduction  in  manning  due  to  Air  Force-wide 
cutbacks  such  as  Variable  Separation 
Incentives /Special  Separation  Bonuses  (VSI/SSB) , 
the  aerial  port  remained  on  12  hour  shifts  after 
the  Gulf  War.  Several  instaunces  occurred  where 
justification  was  made  for  added  reserve  personnel 
to  work  in  the  aerial  port.  In  order  for  these 
reserves  to  work  in  the  aerial  port  squadron 
during  a  surge  period,  there  must  be  a  need  or 
requirement  for  added  personnel  during  a  surge 
period.  Justification  for  added  personnel 
(reserves)  includes  the  tonnage  of  cargo 
anticipated  and  why  added  personnel  are  needed  to 
handle  this  tonnage,  the  backlog  of  cargo  in  the 
aerial  port,  current  manpower,  and  how  many  hours 
(man-days)  the  reserves  are  required  to  work 
during  the  surge.  For  exeunple,  Dover  requested 
"reserve  augmentation"  from  specific  reserve  units 
during  Operation  RESTORE  HOPE  (humanitarian 
airlift  of  cargo  to  Somalia) .  Many  of  the 
reservists  were  members  of  the  72nd  APS,  96th  APS, 
and  the  46th  APS — reserve  aerial  port  squadrons 
based  at  Dover  AFB. 

Dover  trains  personnel  from  reserve  units 
stationed  not  only  at  Dover  AFB,  but  throughout  the 
United  States,  all  year  long — it  is  an  on-going 


181 


process.  In  addition,  Dover  trains  Army  personnel 
(most  of  whom  work  mail  duties)  on  the  formal  processes 
of  the  aerial  port. 

7.  Do  you  go  through  Air  Poree>wide,  regional,  or  local 
channels  to  get  additional  personnel?  Are  they  hired  as 
part-time  or  full-time? 

In  order  to  acquire  additional  military 
personnel,  Dover  must  go  through  Air  Force 
channels  for  approval  (military  personnel  are 
acquired  on  a  full-time  basis) .  Additional 
civilian  personnel  are  sourced  through  the  local 
civilian  personnel  office  at  Dover  AFB.  Depending 
on  the  requirement,  some  civilians  "overhires"  are 
hired  as  part-time  employees. 

The  amount  of  additional  military  and 
civilian  personnel  requested  is  directly  related 
to  current  worldwide  events  and  the  mission 
taskings  for  Dover  AFB.  The  requirements  for 
personnel  may  fluctuate  immensely  (weekly  or  day- 
by-day)  depending  on  real-world  events.  There  is 
a  minimvim  level  of  personnel  required  to  handle 
operations  below  which  manning  cannot  drop.  In 
some  situations  there  may  be  no  need  to  fill  a  few 
short-term  vacated  positions  on  a  one-for-one 
basis;  but,  in  other  cases  where  the  surge  results 
in  losing  a  significant  number  of  people,  there 
may  be  a  requirement  to  request  for  additional 


182 


personnel.  For  example,  next  week  there  could  be 
a  tasking  to  send  60  personnel  to  Mogadishu, 

Somalia.  This  would  probably  result  in  a  request 
for  additional  personnel  (reserves)  to  handle  the 
workload  if  active-duty  personnel  depart  for 
Somalia. 

8.  How  do  you  train  these  additional  M^loyees  and  is  there 

a  learning  curve  associated  with  this  training? 

Additional  personnel  required  to  work  during 
surge  periods  are  given  cooqplete  training  in  order 
to  perform  their  duties.  Each  individual  is 
required  to  complete  all  training  associated  with 
his  or  her  position  and  there  is  a  learning  curve 
associated  with  training  additional  personnel. 

For  example,  personnel  will  receive  operator 
training  and  government  licensing  on  applicable 
MHE,  safety,  flightline  driving,  self-aid/buddy 
care,  etc.  The  level  of  specialized  training 
given  to  an  individual  depends  on  the  position  he 
or  she  will  work  (i.e.  handling  explosives  or 
hazardous  material,  operating  K-loaders  or 
forklifts  to  move  cargo,  building  cargo  pallets, 
load  planning,  etc.)  and  the  currency  of  that 
individual.  During  Operation  DESERT  SHIELD/STORM 
additional  training  requirements  for  reserve 
personnel  deploying  to  the  Middle  East  included 
chemical  warfare  training.  Thue,  the  training 


183 


conducted  in  a  strategic  aerial  port,  such  as 
Dover,  is  directly  related  to  the  taskings  and 
dangers  to  which  personnel  are  inherently  exposed. 

In  regards  to  civilian  personnel, 
fortunately,  there  are  a  number  of  qualified 
civilians  in  the  local  area  with  prior  military  or 
civilian  experience  in  aerial  port  operations. 

These  additional  civilians  are  checked  for 
currency  and  provided  all  of  the  necessary  upgrade 
training  to  complete  their  respective  duties. 

This  is  a  benefit  for  Dover  as  these  individuals 
do  not  take  as  long  to  train  and  the  learning 
curve  is  not  as  steep  in-comparison  to  someone  who 
has  no  prior  experience. 

9.  How  do  you  measure  the  effectiveness  of  your  day-to-day 

(peacetime)  cargo  handling  operations? 

There  are  several  methods  for  measuring 
effectiveness.  One  specific  measurement  is  the 
Port  Processing  Time  (PPT) — the  amount  of  time  it 
takes  to  process  a  piece  of  cargo  through  the 
aerial  port.  Port  Hold  Time  (PHT) — the  amount  of 
time  the  cargo  is  physically  in  the  port — is  a 
measurement  of  interest  and  directly  impacts 
Dover's  operation  and  the  backlog  of  cargo; 
however,  this  metric  is  controlled  by  the  Tanker 
Airlift  Control  Center  (TACC)  at  HQ  AMC.  In 
addition  to  PPT,  there  are  several  daily  reports 


184 


that  are  monitored.  Some  of  these  reports 
include:  1)  frustrated  cargo — cargo  that  is  held 
at  the  port  due  to  some  type  of  discrepancy;  2) 
cargo  backlog — cargo  awaiting  movement  to  certain 
destinations  (this  report  is  reviewed  in 
conjunction  with  the  aircraft  missions  forecasted 
in  the  Air  Terminal  Operations  Center  (ATOC)  to 
ensure  there  is  appropriate  airlift  to  move  the 
cargo  and  that  the  TACC  is  aware  of  cargo  at  Dover 
that  is  awaiting  airlift);  and  3)  999/MICAP 
status  reports-^-high  priority  cargo  and  any  cargo 
for  special  projects  or  missions. 

Aircraft  delays  are  monitored  but  not  used  as 
a  management  tool  at  Dover.  There  may  be  a 
variety  of  situations  when  delay  of  the  aircraft 
is  unavoidable  and  the  interviewee  believes  that 
focusing  on  aircraft  delays  is  counterproductive. 
For  exan^le^  in  cases  where  there  are  two  load 
crews  working  aircraft  and  two  tail-swaps  (due  to 
required  maintenance  of  the  aircraft ) ,  along  with 
an  unexpected  aircraft  arrival r  it  may  be 
impossible  to  get  all  aircraft  out  on-time.  Thus^ 
the  aircraft  delay  does  not  provide  an  accurate 
measurement  of  effectiveness  of  the  two  load 
teams.  In  some  cases,  delay  codes  can  serve  a 
purpose  by  identifying  areas  that  require 
improvement.  However,  all  areas  must  be  evaluated 


185 


and  effectiveness  is  measured  by  whether  or  not 
the  cargo  was  loaded  on  the  right  aircraft,  to  the 
right  destination,  at  the  right  time. 

10.  How  do  you  measure  the  effectiveness  of  your  cargo 

handling  operations  during  surges  (eontlngenoles/war)? 

Since  the  aerial  port  is  a  processing  point 
for  cargo,  the  effectiveness  of  the  cargo  handling 
operation  during  a  surge  period  is  measured  by  the 
ability  of  the  port  to  process  the  cargo  and  have 
it  ready  for  airlift.  The  goal  at  Dover  is  to 
have  this  process  completed  within  24  hours — the 
HQ  AMC  standard  is  48  hours. 

During  contingencies,  a  dilemma  occurs  when 
there  is  more  cargo  than  airlift  capability.  It 
is  extremely  difficult  to  satisfy  all  service 
components  (i.e.  Air  Force,  Army,  Navy,  Narines) 
or  shipping  agencies.  Each  component  believes 
they  are  the  most  important,  and  they  all  compete 
for  the  limited  number  of  airframes  availed)le.  In 
this  situation,  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff, 
represented  by  a  Joint  Task  Force  (JTF)  is 
responsible  for  assigning  priorities  to  all  cargo 
scheduled  for  airlift  in  support  of  the 
contingency.  Unless  re-prioritized  by  some  higher 
agency,  the  999  cargo  is  prioritized  on  a  first 
come  first  serve  basis  (FIFO) .  For  example, 
during  Operation  RESTORE  HOPE  a  specific 


186 


individual  was  appointed  to  coordinate  with  the 
JTF  to  reconcile  any  differences  in  the 
prioritization  of  cargo.  This  was  necessary 
because  what  is  important  to  the  Air  Force  and 
what  is  important  to  the  Marines  may  be 
considerably  different. 


Bibliography 


1.  Air  Force  Logistics  Command.  Benchmarking, 
Headquarters  Quality  Council  Work  Group, 

15  August  1990. 

2.  "Airborne  Cuts  Rates  to  Lure  Small  Shippers,”  The 
Journal  of  Commerce,  31  July  1992,  sec.  A:  1  ,  3. 

3.  Altany,  David.  "Copycats,”  Quality  Digest,  3:  53-59 
(March  1991) . 

4.  Auguston,  Karen.  "How  Jaguar  Ships  Orders  On  Time, 
Every  Time,"  Modern  Materials  Handling,  46:  74-75 
(February  1991). 

5.  Bard,  Jonathan  F.  and  Stephen  F.  Sousk.  "A  Tradeoff 
Analysis  for  Rough  Terrain  Cargo  Handlers  Using  the 
AHP:  An  Example  of  Group  Decision  Making,"  IEEE 
Transactions  on  Engineering  Management,  37:  222-227 
(August  1990). 

6.  Bemowski,  Karen.  "Quality  in  Flight,”  Quality 
Progress,  25:  27-32  (July  1992). 

7.  "Benchmarking,  The  IBM-Rochester  Way,”  Quality  Digest, 
11:  57-67  (December  1991). 

8.  Biesada,  Alexandra.  "Benchmarking,"  Financial  World, 
160:  28-32  (17  September  1991). 

9.  - - .  "Truck  Soup,"  Financial  World,  161:  22-23 

(4  August  1992). 

10.  Bradley,  Peter.  "Good  Things  Come  in  Small  Packages,” 
Purchasing,  107:  58-64  (9  November  1989). 


11.  — — — .  "Headwinds  for  Air  Freight,”  Purchasing, 

110:  64-66  (7  March  1991). 

12.  "Package  Express:  A  Study  in  How  Free  Markets 


Work,"  Purchasing,  108:  68-76  (27  September  1990). 

13.  Brocka,  Bruce  and  M.  Suzanne  Brocka.  Quality 
Management  -  Implementing  the  Best  Ideas  of  the 
Masters,  Homewood  IL:  Business  One  Irwin,  1992. 

14.  Canq),  Robert  C.  Benchmarking:  The  Search  for  Industry 
Best  Practices  That  Lead  to  Superior  Performance, 
Milwaukee  WI:  Quality  Press,  1989. 


188 


15.  - - X.  "Benchmarking:  The  Search  for  Best  Practices 

That  Lead  to  Superior  Performance,  Part  I,"  Quality 
Progreaa,  22:  62-68  (January  1989). 

16.  — — Benchmarking:  The  Search  for  Best  Practices 
That  Lead  to  Superior  Performance,  Part  II,"  Quality 
Progreaa,  22:  70-75  (February  1989). 

17.  — - .  Benchmarking:  The  Search  for  Best  Practices 

That  Lead  to  Superior  Performance,  Part  III,"  Quality 
Progreaa,  22:  76-82  (March  1989). 

18.  Cavinato,  Joseph.  "How  to  Benchmark  Logistics 
Operations,"  Distribution,  87:  93-94  (August  1988). 

19.  Cheney,  Dick.  Defense  Strategy  for  the  1990a:  The 
Regional  Defense  Strategy.  Washington  DC:  6P0,  1993. 

20.  Clancy,  David  A.  "Savings  Are  Priority  with  Deferred 
Air,"  Tranaportation  and  Distribution,  30:  26-27 
(May  1989) . 

21.  Cooke,  James  A.  "How  the  Integrated  Carriers  Changed 
an  Industry,"  Traffic  Management,  30:  37-42 

(August  1991). 

22.  Coyle,  John  J.  and  others.  Tranaportation  (Third 
Edition).  St.  Paul  MN:  West  Publishing  Company,  1990. 

23.  "Demand  Rockets,  Delta  Automates  Air  Cargo  Ops,"  Modern 

Materiala  Handling,  47:  12-13  (April  1992). 

24.  Department  of  Defense.  Dictionary  of  Military  and 
Associated  Terms.  JCS  Pub  1.  Washington  DC:  6P0, 

1  June  1987. 

25.  "Desert  Storm:  Unleashing  the  Might  of  Materials 
Handling,"  Modern  Materiala  Handling,  46:  50-67 
(July  1991). 

26.  Drozdowski,  Ted  E.  "GTE  Uses  Benchmarking  to  Measure 
Purchasing,"  Purchaaing,  6:  21-22  (31  March  1991). 

27.  Dun' a  Buaineaa  Rankinga  1992.  New  Jersey:  Dun  & 
Bradstreet,  Inc.,  1992. 

28.  Eisenhardt,  Kathleen  M.  "Building  Theories  from  Case 
Study  Research,"  Academy  of  Management  Review, 

14:  532-550  (1989). 

29.  "Emery  Worldwide  is  Getting  it  Right,"  Global  Trade, 
110:  51-52  (May  1990). 


189 


30.  Emory,  C.  William  and  Donald  R.  Cooper.  Business 
Research  Methods.  Boston:  Irwin,  1991. 

31.  "Fad  or  Fundamental?,”  Financial  World,  6:  34-35 
(17  September  1991). 

32.  Filipowski,  Diane.  "How  Federal  Express  Makes  Your 
Package  Its  Most  Important,"  Personnel  Journal, 

71:  40-46  (February  1992). 

33.  "First  Find  Your  Bench,”  The  Economist,  319:  72 
(11  May  1991). 

34.  Forger,  Gary.  "Top  Gun  Materials  Handling  at  Tinker 
Air  Force  Base,"  Modern  Materials  Handling,  45:  44-47 
(June  1990) . 

35.  Foster,  Thomas  A.  "Airline  Interest  in  Airfreight 
Rises,"  Distribution  (Part  I),  89:  70-74  (July  1990). 

36.  — — .  "Searching  for  the  Best,"  Distribution, 

91:  31-36  (March  1992). 

37.  Frankfort -Nachmias ,  Chava  and  David  Nachmias.  Research 
Methods  in  the  Social  Sciences,  New  York:  St.  Martin's 
Press,  1992. 

38.  Gibson,  Jeunes  L.  and  others.  Organizations:  Behavior, 
Structure,  Processes  (Seventh  Edition).  Homewood  IL: 
Irwin,  1991. 

39.  Gordon,  Jay.  "Air  Express  Market  Stays  Hot,” 
Distribution  (Part  I),  89:  76-80  (July  1990). 

40.  Gould,  Les.  "Two  Secrets  from  Japan:  Appropriate 
Technology,  Continual  Improvement,”  Modern  Materials 
Handling,  45:  56-57  (December  1990). 

41.  Gourdin,  Kent  N.  and  Richard  L.  Clarke.  "Winning 
Transportation  Partnerships:  Learning  from  the  Desert 
Storm  Experience”,  Transportation  Journal,  32:  30-37 
(Fall  1992). 

42.  Harmon,  Marion.  "Benchmarking,"  Quality  Digest, 

12:  20-31  (July  1992). 

43.  Harvey,  Philip  D.  "Charities  need  a  Bottom  Line  Too," 
The  Harvard  Business  Review,  65:  14-22  (Jan-Feb  1987). 

44.  Hawkins,  Chuck.  "FedEx:  Europe  Nearly  Killed  the 
Messenger,"  Business  Week,  Industrial/Technology 
Edition:  124,  126  (25  May  1992). 


190 


45.  "It's  Back  to  Basics  for  Carrier  Quality," 

Distribution,  90:  57,  60  (August  1991). 

46.  Jedd,  Marcia.  "Integrators  Race  for  Globalization," 
Globsl  Trade,  112:  25’‘27  (July  1992). 

47.  King,  Julia  and  Janet  Mason.  "Transportation  -  High 
Flying  Airborne  Express  Keeps  Feet  on  the  Ground, " 
Computerworld,  Premier  100  Supplement, 

30  September  1991:  70-72. 

48.  Kitfield,  James.  "Aspin's  Option,"  Government 
Executive,  25:  42-45  (March  1993). 

49.  Kleinschrod,  Walter  A.  "Overnight  Couriers  Provide 
Price  and  Performance  Options,"  Today's  Office, 

25:  58-71  (March  1991). 

50.  Lincoln,  Yvonne  S.  and  Egon  G.  Guba.  Naturalistic 
Inquiry.  Beverly  Hills:  Sage  Publications,  1985. 

51.  Luk,  Maria.  "Hong  Kong  Air  Cargo  Terminals  to  Work  in 
Synch  Because  of  Simulation  Applications,"  Industrial 
Engineering,  22:  42-45  (November  1990). 

52.  Lyon,  Mark  W.  "Cargo  Net  Debate  Splits  Industry,"  The 
Journal  of  Commerce  Magazine  Supplement  on  Air  Cargo, 

27  July  1992:  4,  16. 

53.  — ' — -.  "Freight  Has  Chance  to  Talk  Back,"  The  Journal 
of  Commerce  Magazine  Supplement  on  Air  Cargo, 

27  July  1992:  6. 

54.  Mecham,  Michael.  "DHL  International  Extends  World 
Network,"  Aviation  Week  and  Space  Technology,  78:  32 
(31  August  1992). 

55.  Million  Dollar  Directory  -  America's  Leading  Public  and 
Private  Company,  Series  1991.  Parsippany  NJ:  Dun  and 
Bradstreet ,  1991. 

56.  Muller,  E.J.  and  Robert  Bo%niian.  "The  State  of  Quality 
in  Logistics  -  Airborne  Express,"  Distribution,  91:  97 
(August  1992). 

57.  Muller,  E.J.  "Trends  Bode  Well  for  Air,"  Distribution, 
91:  30-36  (July  1992). 

58.  - - .  "Warehouses  on  Wings,"  Distribution, 

88:  48-54  (October  1989). 

59.  National  Military  Strategy  Document,  FY  1994-1999 , 
(NMSD) ,  Annex  H  (Logistics) .  Washington  DC:  GPO,  1993. 


191 


60.  National  Security  Strategy  of  the  United  States. 
Washington  DC:  GPO,  1993. 

61.  Ott,  James.  "Federal  Express  Develops  C^I-based 
Information  System, ”  Aviation  Week  and  Space 
Technology,  134:  57,  60  (23  November  1992). 

62.  Page,  Paul.  "Airborne  Joins  Higher  Price  Parade,  Says 
Costs  Market  Merit  5  Percent,"  Traffic  World,  233:  35 
(25  January  1993). 


63.  - ■*.  "Deferred  Deliveries  Defer  Profits  for  Express 

Carriers  Hit  by  Recession,"  Traffic  World,  230:  21 

(13  April  1992). 

64.  — - — .  "Embattled  Airborne  Fares  Hurdles  in  Move  to 
Recoup  Losses  to  Federal,"  Traffic  World,  231:  18-19 
(24  August  1992). 

65.  - -.  "Emery  Cuts  Loss  to  $16.7  Million,  Hopes  for 

Some  Upturn  This  Year,"  Traffic  World,  230:  43 

(27  April  1992). 

66.  - -.  "Emery  Finally  Battles  Back  Into  the  Black, 

Sees  Momentum  Building,"  Traffic  World,  233:  7-8 

(1  February  1993). 

67.  — — ,  "Federal  Aims  at  2nd  Day  Market  With  Discounted 
Surface  Service,"  Traffic  World,  230:  28-29 

(25  May  1992) . 

68.  - .  "Federal  Targets  European  Express,  Will  Hub 

Paris  in  Shifting  Operations,”  Traffic  World,  233:  34 
(25  January  1993). 

69.  Patton,  Michael  Q.  Qualitative  Evaluation  Methods. 
London:  Sage  Publications,  1980. 


70.  Porter,  Michael  E.  Competitive  Strategy.  New  York: 

The  Free  Press,  1980. 

71.  Powell,  Colin  L.  Chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff 
Report  on  the  Roles,  Missions,  and  Functions  of  the 
Armed  Forces  of  the  United  States.  Washington  DC: 

GPO,  1993. 

72.  — - .  The  National  Military  Strategy  1992. 

Washington  DC:  GPO,  1992. 

73.  "Proper  Planning  Makes  Most  Equipment  Modular,”  Modern 
Materials  Handling,  44:  51-54  (June  1989). 


192 


74.  Pryor,  Lawrence  S.  "Benchmarking:  A  Self -'Improvement 
Strategy,"  The  Journal  of  Business  Strategy,  10:  28-32 
(November-December  1989). 

75.  "Quest  for  Quality,"  Distribution,  90:  52,  54 
(August  1991). 

76.  Reboulet,  Mark  S.  and  Capt  Phillip  L.  Robinson.  A 
Study  of  Theoretical  Models  for  Managing  Technology 
Change  and  a  Comparison  to  a  Radio  Frequency 
Identification  Implementation.  MS  Thesis, 
AFIT/GLM/LA93S-36.  School  of  Logistics  and  Acquisition 
Management,  Air  Force  Institute  of  Technology,  Wright- 
Patterson  AFB  OH,  September  1993. 

77.  Richardson,  Helen  L.  "In^rove  Service  Without  Raising 
Costs,"  Transportation  and  Distribution,  32:  30-31 
(January  1991). 

78.  - .  "Small  Shipments  Reach  Further  with 

Technology,"  Transportation  and  Distribution,  31:  14-18 
(April  1990). 

79.  Rosenthal,  Thomas  M.  "Are  You  Se2unless;  A  Seamless 
Partnership,"  Global  Trade,  110:  20-23  (April  1990). 

80.  Shishoff  Lt  Col,  John  W.  The  Nonlinear  Nature  of 
Internal  Auditing:  Ethnographic  Perspectives  of  ynamic 
Structuring.  Unpublished  PhD  dissertation  proposal. 

The  Pennsylvania  State  University,  State  College  PA, 
1988. 

81.  Spendolini,  Michael  J.  The  Benchmarking  Book. 

Mew  York:  AMACON,  1992. 

82.  Standard  &  Poor's  Industry  Surveys.  New  York:  Standard 
&  Poor,  1991. 

83.  Strugatch,  Warren.  "Reliability  is  the  Buzzword,” 
Global  Trade,  110:  48-51  (April  1990). 

84.  Tabor,  Mary  B.W.  "When  Santa's  Reindeer  Just  Aren't 
Fast  Enough,”  New  York  Times,  25  December  1992, 
sec.  A:  21. 

85.  Tomas,  Sam.  "Stealing  Shamelessly,”  APICS  A&D  SIG 
Digest,  6:  23-25  (April  1992). 

86.  Tucker,  Frances  6.  and  others.  "How  to  Measure 
Yourself  Against  the  Best,"  Harvard  Business  Review, 

65:  8-10  ( January-February  1987). 


193 


87.  Tucker,  Frances  6.  and  Seymour  M.  Zivan.  "A  Xerox 
Cost  Center  Imitates  a  Profit  Center,"  Harvard  Business 
Review,  163:  168-169,  174  (May-June  1985). 

88.  Ward's  Business  Directory  of  U.S,  Private  and  Public 
Companies,  Volume  5t  Ranked  by  Sales,  Foster  City  CA: 
Gale  Research  Inc.,  1992. 

89.  Webster's  New  Collegiate  Dictionary.  Springfield  MA: 

G.  &  C.  Merriam  Company,  1981. 

90.  "What  Do  Air  Shippers  Want?,"  Traffic  Management, 

31:  65,  67  (7  July  1992). 

91.  "What's  Ahead  in  Materials  Handling,"  Modern  Materials 
Handling,  7:  52-58  (January  1992). 

92.  Yin,  Robert  K.  Case  Study  Research  Design  and  Methods. 
Beverly  Hills:  Sage  Publications,  1984. 


194 


Captain  Mila  D.  Abalateo  was  born  on  2  July  1963  in 
Modesto /  California.  She  graduated  from  Wagner  High  School 
at  Clark  Air  Base,  Philippines  and  attended  the  University 
of  California  at  Davis,  graduating  with  a  Bachelor  of 
Science  in  Agricultural  and  Managerial  Economics  in 
June  1986.  After  graduation,  she  received  a  commission  in 
the  USAF  and  attended  Transportation  Officers'  School  at 
Sheppard  AFB,  Texas.  She  sejrved  her  first  tour  of  duty  at 
Aviano  Air  Base,  Italy  where  she  worked  as  the  Vehicle 
Operations  Officer  in  the  40th  Transportation  Squadron.  In 
February  1989,  she  was  reassigned  to  the  63rd  Aerial  Port 
Squadron  at  Norton  AFB,  California  and  worked  in  the  Air 
Terminal  Operations  Center  as  a  Squadron  Duty  Officer  for 
eight  months  and,  subsequently,  as  the  Air  Freight  Officer. 
She  con^leted  Squadron  Officer  School  in  residence  in 
October  1990.  Captain  Abalateo  entered  to  the  School  of 
Systems  and  Logistics,  Air  Force  Institute  of  Technology  in 
May  of  1992.  Following  graduation,  she  will  be  assigned  to 
the  60th  Aerial  Port  Squadron  at  Travis  AFB,  California. 

Permanent  Address : 

7720  Carriage  Circle 

Cupertino,  CA  95014 


vita 


Captain  Joni  R.  Lee  was  born  on  10  August  1964  in 
Baton  Rouge,  Louisiana.  She  graduated  from  St.  John  the 
Evangelist  High  School  in  Plaquemine,  Louisiana  in  1982  and 
attended  Louisiana  State  University,  graduating  with  a 
Bachelor  of  Arts  in  Political  Science  (specialty: 
International  Relations)  in  August  1986.  Upon  graduation, 
she  received  a  commission  in  the  USAF  and  attended 
Transportation  Officers'  School  at  Sheppard  AFB,  Texas.  She 
served  her  first  tour  of  duty  at  Hanscom  AFB,  Massachusetts 
where  she  worked  as  Vehicle  Maintenance  Officer,  Vehicle 
Operations  Officer,  Traffic  Manager,  and  Assistant  Chief  of 
Transportation  in  the  3245th  Logistics  Squadron.  In 
March  of  1989  she  was  assigned  to  Rhein-Main  AB,  Germany 
where  she  worked  as  a  Squadron  Duty  Officer  and  Air  Freight 
Officer  in  the  435th  Aerial  Port  Squadron.  In  March  of  1992 
she  was  chosen  to  attend  Squadron  Officer  School  while 
enroute  to  the  School  of  Systems  and  Logistics,  Air  Force 
Institute  of  Technology.  Upon  graduation,  she  will  be 
assigned  to  Air  Force  Materiel  Command  headquarters  at 
Wright-Patterson  AFB,  Ohio. 

Permanent  Address: 

24010  Marshall  St. 

Plaquemine,  LA  70764 


196 


REPORT  DOCUMENTATION  PAGE 


Form  Approved 
OMB  No.  0704-0188 


PuMc  ftportin^  burdtA  tot  collection  oi  mfocmetion  ntimated  to  4tfef*9e  i  hour  oer  'Mponse.  including  the  time  for  reviewir>g  Instruatons.  marching  existing  data  vources.  ; 
gathering  and  maintaimng  the  data  needed,  and  completing  and  reviewing  the  collection  of  information  Send  comments  regarding  this  burden  estimate  or  any  other  aspea  of  this  I 
coUection  of  information,  including  suggestions  for  r^ucir>g  this  burden  to  yWashington  Headquarters  Services.  Oireaorate  for  information  Operations  and  Reports,  U  iS  Jefferson  r  - 
Oav^Hlgltwav.  Suite  1204.  Arlington.  VA  22202*4302.  and  to  the  Off  ice  of  Management  and  Budget.  Paperwork  Reduction  Project  (0704-01  SB).  Washington,  OC  20S03 


1.  ACiNCY  use  ONLY  wnk) 


'^eptemfeer  1993 


4.  TITU  AND  SUSTITLC 

BENCHMARKING  PRACTICES  OF  AIR  CARGO  CARRIERS: 
A  CASE  STUDY  APPROACH 


rw.Tini[*TIT01 


Mila  D.  Abalateo/  Captain,  USAF 
Joni  R.  Lee,  Captain,  USAF 


7.  KRTORMING  ORGANIZATION  NAME(S)  ANO  AOORESS(ES) 

Air  Force  Institute  of  Technology, 
WPAFB  OH  45433-6583 


8.  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION 
REPORT  NUMBER 

AFIT/GLM/LAL/93S-1 


9.  SPONSORING /MONITORING  AGENCY  NAME(S)  AND  AOORESS(ES) 
HQ  AMC/XON 

402  Scott  Drive  Unit  3A1 
Scott  AFB,  Illinois  62225-5302 


10.  SPONSORING /MONITORING 
AGENCY  REPORT  NUMBER 


12*.  DISTRIBUTION /AVAILABIUTY  STATEMENT 

Approved  for  public  release; 
distribution  unlimited 


12b.  DISTRIBUTION  CODE 


13.  ABSTRACT  (Afjximufn  ZOO  words)  This  research  effort  used  the  benchmarking  process 
and  a  case  study  methodology  to  determine  what  the  Air  Force  can 
learn  from  commercial  air  cargo  carriers.  A  literature  search  showed 
that  the  U.S.  air  cargo  industry  leaders  are  United  Parcel  Service, 
Federal  Express,  Emery  Air  Freight,  Airborne  Freight,  DHL  Airways, 
and  Burlington  Air  Express.  In  addition,  the  436th  Aerial  Port  ; 

Squadron  at  Dover  AFB,  Delaware  was  chosen  as  the  Air  Force  represen-  j 
tative  in  the  benchmarking  study.  Observations  of  air  cargo  opera-  i 
tions  and  interviews  with  operational  managers  or  applicable  experts  j 
familiar  with  air  cargo  operations  were  conducted  at  each  carrier's  j 
hub  and  at  Dover  AFB.  Observations  identified  that  the  Air  Force  can  ' 
learn  from  the  commercial  air  cargo  carriers  in  four  areas:  cargo 
handling  equipment,  intransit  visibility,  operations  interface,  and 
safety.  Observations  and  responses  to  interviews  revealed  major 
disparities  between  the  mission  of  the  Air  Force  and  the  goals  of  the 
industry  leaders.  Therefore,  industry  leader  practices  during  surge 
periods  cannot  be  applied  to  the  Air  Force. 


14.  SUBJECT  TERMS 

Transportation  (Air),  Case  Studies,  Commercial 
Aircraft,  Cargo  Handling,  Military  Transportation, 
Air  Logistics  Support 


17.  SECURITY  CLASSIFICATION  1 18.  SECURITY  CLASSIFICATION  1 19.  SECURITY  CLASSIFICATION  I  20.  LIMITATION  OF  ABSTRACT 


15.  NUMBER  OF  PAGES 
208 


16.  PRICE  CODE 


5nc^ss  i  f  i  ed 


OF  THIS  PAGE 

Unclassified 


OF  ABSTRACT 
Unclassified 


NSN  75404)1 -ZSO-SSOO 


Standard  Form  298  (Rev  2-89) 

PmcriM  by  ANSI  Std  2]9.I8 
298-102 


AFIT/GLM/LAL/93S-1 


ART  Control  Number 

AFTT  RESEARCH  ASSESSMENT 


The  purpose  of  this  questiormaire  is  to  determine  the  potential  for  current  and  future  applications 
of  AFTT  thesis  research.  Please  return  completed  questionnaires  to:  DEPARTMENT  OF  THE 
AIR  FORCE,  AIR  FORCE  INSTITUTE  OF  TECHNOLOGY/LAC,  2950  P  STREET.  WRIGHT 
PATTERSON  AFB  OH  45433-7765 

1.  Did  this  research  contribute  to  a  current  research  projea? 

a.  Yes  b.  No 

2.  Do  you  believe  this  research  topic  is  significant  enough  that  it  would  have  been  rcscarclicd  (or 
contracted)  by  your  organization  or  another  agency  if  AFTT  had  not  researched  it? 

a.  Yes  b.  No 

3.  The  benefits  of  AFTT  research  can  often  be  expressed  by  the  equivalent  value  that  your  agency 
received  by  virtue  of  AFTT  performing  the  research.  Please  estimate  what  this  research  would 
have  cost  in  terms  of  manpower  and/or  dollars  if  it  had  been  accomplished  under  contract  or  if  it 
had  been  done  in-house. 

Man  Years _  $ _ 

4.  Often  it  is  not  possible  to  attach  equivalent  dollar  values  to  research,  although  the  results  of 
the  research  may,  in  fact,  be  important  Whether  or  not  you  were  able  to  establish  an  equivalent 
value  for  this  research  (3,  above)  what  is  your  estimate  of  its  significance? 

a.  Highly  b.  Significant  c.  Slightly  d.  Of  No 

S.giiificant  Significant  Significance 

5.  Comments 


Name  and  Grade 


Organization 


Position  or  Title 


Address 


