AU/ACSC/3830/AY09 


AIR  COMMAND  AND  STAFF  COLLEGE 

AIR  UNIVERSITY 

USCENTCOM’S  INTRATHEATER  AIRLIFT: 
WHAT  WOULD  FEDEX  DO? 


by 

M.  Shane  Turner,  Maj,  USAF 

A  Research  Report  Submitted  to  the  Faculty 
In  Partial  Fulfillment  of  the  Graduation  Requirements 

Instructor:  Dr.  Bert  L.  Frandsen 

Maxwell  Air  Force  Base,  Alabama 
April  2009 


Report  Documentation  Page 


Form  Approved 
OMB  No.  0704-0188 


Public  reporting  burden  for  the  collection  of  information  is  estimated  to  average  1  hour  per  response,  including  the  time  for  reviewing  instructions,  searching  existing  data  sources,  gathering  and 
maintaining  the  data  needed,  and  completing  and  reviewing  the  collection  of  information.  Send  comments  regarding  this  burden  estimate  or  any  other  aspect  of  this  collection  of  information, 
including  suggestions  for  reducing  this  burden,  to  Washington  Headquarters  Services,  Directorate  for  Information  Operations  and  Reports,  1215  Jefferson  Davis  Highway,  Suite  1204,  Arlington 
VA  22202-4302.  Respondents  should  be  aware  that  notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  law,  no  person  shall  be  subject  to  a  penalty  for  failing  to  comply  with  a  collection  of  information  if  it 
does  not  display  a  currently  valid  OMB  control  number. 


1.  REPORT  DATE 

APR  2009 


2.  REPORT  TYPE 

N/A 


3.  DATES  COVERED 


4.  TITLE  AND  SUBTITLE 

USCENTCOM’s  Intratheater  Airlift:  What  Would  FedEx  Do? 


5a.  CONTRACT  NUMBER 


5b.  GRANT  NUMBER 


6.  AUTHOR(S) 


7.  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION  NAME(S)  AND  ADDRESS(ES) 

Air  Command  And  Staff  College  Air  University  Maxwell  Air  Force  Base, 
Alabama 


5c.  PROGRAM  ELEMENT  NUMBER 


5d.  PROIECT  NUMBER 


5e.  TASK  NUMBER 


5f.  WORK  UNIT  NUMBER 


8.  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION 
REPORT  NUMBER 


9.  SPONSORING/MONITORING  AGENCY  NAME(S )  AND  ADDRESS(ES )  10.  SPONSOR/MONITOR' S  ACRONYM(S) 

11.  SPONSOR/MONITOR'S  REPORT 
NUMBER(S) 

12.  DISTRIBUTION/AVAILABILITY  STATEMENT 

Approved  for  public  release,  distribution  unlimited 

13.  SUPPLEMENTARY  NOTES 

14.  ABSTRACT 

Incorporating  successful  business  practices  from  the  FedEx  Corporations  commercial  air  cargo  system  can 
increase  productivity  and  effectiveness  for  U.S.  Central  Commands  intratheater  airlift  system.  The  goal  of 
this  academic  comparison  is  to  recommend  strategies  for  improvement  and  courses  of  action  to  make  the 
intratheater  airlift  system  more  effective  at  supporting  the  warfighter  in  future  conflicts.  Although 
research  on  improving  the  intratheater  airlift  system  is  not  new,  this  topic  remains  relevant  as  a  continual 
problem  area  for  the  Joint  Force  Commander.  Many  researchers  have  improved  specific  aspects  of  the 
intratheater  airlift  system.  Unfortunately,  several  problems  persist.  The  intratheater  airlift  system  remains 
plagued  with  inefficient  business  practices,  misunderstandings  of  how  the  system  works,  or  what  happens 
during  the  execution  phase.  Additional  intratheater  airlift  problem  areas  include:  the  Air  Force  120  day 
deployment  cycle  decreases  overall  productivity,  incorrectly  configured  cargo  pallets  decreases  aircraft 
utilization  rates,  falsely  prioritized  cargo  manipulates  the  system  in  hopes  to  guarantee  a  faster  delivery, 
and  the  overall  intratheater  airlift  system  is  poorly  managed  by  an  inept  logistical  computer  network. 
Furthermore,  disconnected  ideas  between  Army  and  Air  Force  cultures  appear  to  amplify  most  of  the 
major  problems.  A  specific  example  addressed  in  this  research  paper  is  how  the  two  Services  struggle  over 
allocation  and  for  control  of  the  C-27J  Joint  Cargo  Aircraft.  To  some  extent,  the  other  services  have  lost 
trust  in  the  Air  Forces  ability  to  perform  its  supportive  function  involving  intratheater  airlift. 


15.  SUBIECT  TERMS 


16.  SECURITY  CLASSIFICATION  OF: 


a.  REPORT 

unclassified 


b.  ABSTRACT 

unclassified 


c.  THIS  PAGE 

unclassified 


17.  LIMITATION  OF 

18.  NUMBER 

ABSTRACT 

OF  PAGES 

SAR 

23 

19a.  NAME  OF 
RESPONSIBLE  PERSON 


Standard  Form  298  (Rev.  8-98) 

Prescribed  by  ANSI  Std  Z39-18 


Disclaimer 

The  views  expressed  in  this  academic  research  paper  are  those  of  the  author(s)  and  do  not 
reflect  the  official  policy  or  position  of  the  US  government  or  the  Department  of  Defense.  In 
accordance  with  Air  Force  Instruction  51-303,  it  is  not  copyrighted,  but  is  the  property  of  the 
United  States  government. 


2 


Contents 


Disclaimer . 2 

Contents . 3 

Abstract . 4 

Laying  the  Foundation . 5 

Comparison  Analysis . 7 

Struggle  for  the  JCA . 14 

Recommendations . 16 

Conclusion . 17 

Notes . 19 

Bibliography . 22 


3 


Abstract 


Incorporating  successful  business  practices  from  the  FedEx  Corporation’s  commercial  air 
cargo  system  can  increase  productivity  and  effectiveness  for  U.S.  Central  Command’s 
intratheater  airlift  system.  The  goal  of  this  academic  comparison  is  to  recommend  strategies  for 
improvement  and  courses  of  action  to  make  the  intratheater  airlift  system  more  effective  at 
supporting  the  warfighter  in  future  conflicts.  Although  research  on  improving  the  intratheater 
airlift  system  is  not  new,  this  topic  remains  relevant  as  a  continual  problem  area  for  the  Joint 
Force  Commander.  Many  researchers  have  improved  specific  aspects  of  the  intratheater  airlift 
system.  Unfortunately,  several  problems  persist.  The  intratheater  airlift  system  remains  plagued 
with  inefficient  business  practices,  misunderstandings  of  how  the  system  works,  or  what  happens 
during  the  execution  phase.  Additional  intratheater  airlift  problem  areas  include:  the  Air  Force 
120  day  deployment  cycle  decreases  overall  productivity,  incorrectly  configured  cargo  pallets 
decreases  aircraft  utilization  rates,  falsely  prioritized  cargo  manipulates  the  system  in  hopes  to 
guarantee  a  faster  delivery,  and  the  overall  intratheater  airlift  system  is  poorly  managed  by  an 
inept  logistical  computer  network.  Furthennore,  disconnected  ideas  between  Army  and  Air 
Force  cultures  appear  to  amplify  most  of  the  major  problems.  A  specific  example  addressed  in 
this  research  paper  is  how  the  two  Services  struggle  over  allocation  and  for  control  of  the  C-27J 
Joint  Cargo  Aircraft.  To  some  extent,  the  other  services  have  lost  trust  in  the  Air  Force’s  ability 
to  perfonn  its  supportive  function  involving  intratheater  airlift. 


4 


Laying  the  Foundation 


Airlift ’s  mobility  brings  the  speed,  range,  and  flexibility  inherent  in  airpower  to  the  JFC, 
increasing  the  ability  to  maneuver  forces  faster  than  an  opponent. 

Air  Force  Doctrine  Document  2-6. 11 

This  research  paper  will  primarily  focus  on  the  inefficiencies  of  the  current  intratheater 
airlift  system  supporting  U.S.  Central  Command  (USCENTCOM)  and  provide  a  comparison  to 
the  highly  efficient  commercial  air  cargo  system  of  the  FedEx  Corporation.  A  secondary  purpose 
of  this  paper  centers  on  understanding  the  Anny  and  the  Air  Force  debate  over  the  Joint  Cargo 
Aircraft  (JCA),  C-27J,  and  suggesting  alternative  solutions.  The  ultimate  objective  of  this 
research  is  to  find  solutions  and  recommend  strategies  for  improvement.  Lastly,  this  paper 
identifies  potential  courses  of  action  that  will  make  the  intratheater  airlift  system  more  effective 
in  supporting  the  warfighter  for  future  conflicts. 

To  begin  with,  military  airlift  in  support  of  combat  operations  is  inherently  different  from 
air  transport  of  commercial  cargo  for  profit.  Comparing  the  importance  of  next  day  commercial 
freight  to  vital  supplies  for  troops  engaged  in  combat  is  difficult  to  overcome.  However,  these 
two  models  share  fundamental  similarities  when  compared.  This  relationship  provides  positive 
insight  and  perspective,  which  may  benefit  the  intratheater  airlift  structure  and  its  operations. 
Furthennore,  incorporating  the  successful  business  practices  of  the  FedEx  model  into  the 
intratheater  airlift  system  will  increase  productivity  and  effectiveness  for  USCENTCOM  and  the 
warfighter. 

Initially,  the  first  step  is  truly  identifying  and  understanding  the  problem,  which  leads  to 
identifying  a  solution.  The  method  for  this  research  project  was  defining  specific  problem  areas 
in  one  system,  while  examining  successful  areas  in  a  similar  system.  This  approach  presents  the 
inefficiencies  of  the  intratheater  airlift  system  in  contrast  to  the  efficient  business  practices  of  the 


5 


FedEx  Corporation.  Establishing  a  stark  contrast  in  this  manner  presents  a  mechanism  to  develop 
effective  solutions  for  the  intratheater  airlift  system’s  problems.  A  problem-comparison-solution 
format  of  this  nature  offers  a  fresh  look  into  the  mobility  community.  The  basic  premise  is 
Ending  workable  solutions  to  repair  USCENTCOM’s  intratheater  airlift  system. 

Overall,  the  intratheater  airlift  system  is  complex,  but  not  that  different  from  FedEx.  Both 
organizations  employ  the  hub-and-spoke  system  introduced  by  Delta  Air  Lines.  Both  systems 
funnel  the  majority  of  cargo  into  a  few  main  hubs  for  distribution.  Cargo  is  processed  and  then 
dispersed  to  outlying  cities,  or  forward  operating  bases  (FOBs),  in  the  military’s  case.  They 
diverge,  however,  in  measurements  of  success,  measurements  of  customer  satisfaction,  and 
retribution  for  operational  inefficiencies.  The  FedEx  Corporation  cannot  sustain  inefficient 
practices;  otherwise,  it  would  go  out  of  business  for  poor  economic  performance.  In  contrast,  the 
intratheater  airlift  system  sustains  itself  out  of  military  necessity,  regardless  of  perfonnance 
level.  Interestingly  though,  both  organizations  seek  alternative  solutions  to  increase  their 
effectiveness;  however,  FedEx’  survivability  in  a  capitalist  market  depends  upon  it.  The  focus  of 
this  effort  examines  courses  of  action  that  produce  results  rather  than  on  each  system’s  unique 
restrictions,  challenges,  and  barriers. 

Subsequently,  the  Memphis-based  shipping  giant,  FedEx  Corporation,  provided  the 
optimal  target  because  it  has  achieved  consistent  success  since  its  creation  in  1971  by  Frederick 
W.  Smith.  FedEx  demonstrated  solid  evidence  to  its  credit  with  a  steady  climb  on  Fortune  500’s 
largest  company  lists  over  the  past  years.  For  example,  in  1995  the  FedEx  Corporation  ranked 
number  136  with  over  $204  million  dollars  in  profit.4  In  just  over  a  decade  FedEx  increased 
profit  revenues  by  ten  times,  improved  to  number  68  on  the  list,  and  generated  over  $2  billion  of 
profit  in  2008. 5 


6 


Consequently,  this  type  of  growth  is  astonishing  in  corporate  America,  but  more  so 
because  Frederick  Smith’s  empire  developed  from  a  simple  term  paper  as  an  undergraduate 
student  at  Yale  University.6  Smith,  a  former  charter  pilot  and  Marine,  realized  “as  society 
automated  [it]  would  need  a  completely  different  logistics  system.”7  His  concept  capitalized  on 
the  requirement  for  businesses  to  deliver  critical  components  to  their  customers  quickly.  The 
first  two  nights  of  operation  delivered  a  mere  seven  packages,  yet  through  Smith’s  persistence, 
the  company  began  to  grow.  Smith’s  journey  has  overcome  several  challenges  that  forced  him  to 
adapt  and  shape  his  company  to  satisfy  the  customers.  Adapting  to  the  customers’  need  is  the 
benchmark  for  FedEx  success. 

For  the  most  part,  intratheater  airlift  research  is  not  new,  yet  it  remains  a  significant 
problem  for  Geographic  Combatant  Commanders  (GCC)  and  current  campaigns.  Joint 
Publication  (JP)  1-02  defines  intratheater  airlift  as  “the  air  movement  and  delivery  of  personnel 
and  equipment  directly  into  objective  areas  through  air  landing,  airdrop,  extraction,  or  other 
delivery  techniques  as  well  as  the  air  logistic  support  of  all  theater  forces,  including  those 

o 

engaged  in  combat  operations,  to  meet  specific  theater  objectives  and  requirements.”  The  reality 
is  today’s  intratheater  airlift  system  is  plagued  with  inefficient  business  practices, 
misunderstandings  of  how  the  system  works,  or  what  happens  during  the  execution  phase. 
Disconnected  ideas  between  Army  and  Air  Force  cultures  amplify  this  problem. 

Comparison  Analysis 

Particularly,  problem  areas  associated  with  the  intratheater  airlift  system  are  major 
inefficiencies  resurface  on  every  rotational  deployment.  In  July  2008,  Major  General  Burt  Field, 
the  332nd  Air  Expeditionary  Wing  Commander,  Balad  Air  Base,  Iraq,  commented  on  the 


7 


intratheater  airlift  system:  “Education  within  the  theater  on  how  the  process  works  is  lacking. 
People  give  up  and  use  other  methods.  We  [the  Air  Force]  need  to  get  better.”9  To  highlight  a 
few  intratheater  airlift  inadequacies:  the  Air  Force  120  day  deployment  cycle  decreases  overall 
productivity,  incorrectly  configured  cargo  pallets  decreases  aircraft  utilization  rates,  falsely 
prioritized  cargo  manipulates  the  system  in  hopes  to  guarantee  a  faster  delivery,  and  the  overall 
intratheater  airlift  system  is  poorly  managed  by  an  inept  logistical  computer  network.  To  some 
extent,  the  Anny  and  the  Marine  Corps  have  lost  trust  in  the  Air  Force’s  ability  to  perfonn  this 
supportive  function.  The  following  paragraphs  introduce  differences  between  USCENTCOM’s 
Intratheater  Airlift  System  and  FedEx,  reference  Figure  1. 


Comparison 

Intratheater  Airlift 

FedEx 

Measurement  of  Success 

Convoy  mitigation,  pallet  count, 

Meet  customers’  requirement, 

cost  avoidance,  sortie  rates, 

customer  satisfaction 

aircraft  efficiency  rates 

Customer  feedback 

Training  and  Education 

1  week  AMD  training,  120  day 

Initial,  Annual,  Continuation 

deployments 

Training 

Technology  &  Centralized  Control 

GDSS,  JOPES,  GATES, 

DADS,  Powership,  SuperTracker, 

LOGMOD,  MS  Excel 

MultiShip,  ClearSM  Electronic 

Customs  Clearance  System, 

QuickShip,  InterNetShip 

Figure  1 .  Comparison. 


From  firsthand  experience  as  the  Deputy  Chief,  Airlift  Control  Team,  assigned  to  the 
Combined  Air  Operations  Center  (CAOC)  in  2006,  the  basic  design  of  the  system  is  adequate, 
but  contained  considerable  flaws.  The  biggest  dilemmas  were  locating  and  tracking  cargo,  empty 
aircraft  sorties,  personnel  turnover  rates,  a  comprehensive  computer  system,  and  the 
incompatibility  of  existing  program  software.  The  past  six  officers  assigned  to  this  duty  within 


8 


the  Air  Mobility  Division  (AMD)  have  all  echoed  the  same  experiences  during  their 
deployments.  These  factors  continue  to  contribute  to  the  ineffectiveness  of  the  intratheater  airlift 
system,  despite  the  efforts  of  many  hardworking  individuals. 

The  FedEx  model  has  the  luxury  of  a  relatively  stable  and  experienced  workforce 
compared  to  what  the  intratheater  airlift  system  experiences  every  120  days.  From  that 
standpoint,  FedEx  would  cease  to  exist  if  they  fired  workers  and  then  hired  new  ones  every 
deployment  cycle.  GCCs  face  this  reality  in  a  long  protracted  war.  The  inefficiencies  in 
executing  the  mission  rise  the  first  three  weeks  of  deployment  cycles.  For  the  next  two  and  a  half 
months,  performance  improves  dramatically.  However,  toward  the  end  of  deployments, 
inefficiencies  rise  again  to  repeat  the  same  cycle  with  the  next  set  of  replacements.  All  specialties 
experience  a  lag  in  performance  while  adjusting  to  the  pace  of  operations  and  learning  new 
systems.  Increasing  deployments  from  120  to  180  days,  or  longer  is  one  course  of  action.  A 
better  solution  is  methodically  adjusting,  or  spacing  personnel  at  different  intervals  for  a  more 
complete  coverage  of  experience.  AMD  already  uses  this  plan,  but  only  for  a  few  select 
positions.  Staggering  personnel  replacements  in  smart  intervals  offers  the  best  solution  to 
maximize  personnel  productivity. 

Another  significant  area  of  comparison  is  the  manner  in  which  organizations  define  and 
measure  success.  A  universally  agreed  upon  characteristic  of  a  successful  business  is  earning  a 
sizeable  profit  in  a  capitalist  society.  Even  though  many  businesses  earn  profit  revenues,  they 
also  develop  methods  to  measure  customer  satisfaction  and  evaluate  company  perfonnance.  This 
collection  of  customer  feedback,  positive  and  negative,  provides  key  information  to  improve 
marketability  and  services.  Normally,  higher  customer  satisfaction  generates  repeat  business 
from  satisfied  customers.  The  main  point,  however,  rests  on  how  companies  respond  to  customer 


9 


feedback  and  implement  action  for  improvement.  Businesses  that  adapt  and  respond  to  meet  their 
customers’  changing  needs  frequently  achieve  higher  profit  revenues  equating  to  a  higher  level 
of  success.  Likewise,  inefficient  business  processes  work  in  a  negative  manner  on  profit  earnings 
and  to  the  overall  success  of  the  company. 

Conversely,  the  intratheater  airlift  system  measures  success  by  convoy  mitigation  and  the 
amount  of  cargo  transported  on  pallets  referred  to  as  the  daily  pallet  count.  These  daily  and 
monthly  reports  are  examples  of  how  the  Air  Force  typically  measures  success  and  require 
further  explanation.  In  an  effort  to  reduce  the  number  of  U.S.  soldiers  exposed  to  dangerous 
roadside  bombs  on  truck  convoys,  the  Air  Force  attempts  to  air  transport  the  majority  of 
intratheater  cargo.  The  AMD  tracks  this  pallet  count  and  translates  it  directly  into  a  quantity  of 
lives  saved  through  convoy  mitigation.  The  Air  Force  proudly  presents  these  statistics  of  lives 
saved  to  demonstrate  its  contribution  to  the  war  effort.  The  irony  is  that  Army  and  Marine  units 
are  frequently  frustrated  when  higher  priority  cargo  takes  precedence  over  their  shipments.  These 
delays  actually  create  additional  truck  convoys  that  the  Air  Force  is  trying  to  prevent  in  the  first 
place.  Sadly,  most  of  these  occasions  are  not  reported  and  are  not  included  in  the  Air  Force 
statistics. 

Another  Air  Force  measure  of  successful  operations  is  transporting  high  numbers  of 
cargo  pallets,  or  personnel  within  USCENTCOM  on  a  daily  basis.  The  average  pallet  count 
transported  is  350  per  day.  Primarily,  a  fleet  of  U.S.  and  coalition  C-130  Hercules,  C-17 
Globemasters,  Soviet  designed  IL-76,  and  occasionally  the  C-5  Galaxy  performs  these  missions 
in  the  theater  of  combat  operations.  This  standard  creates  a  daily  goal  for  success.  Airlifting 
more  than  350  pallets  equals  a  rather  successful  day  and  ineffective  days  are  obviously 
transporting  fewer  pallets. 


10 


Additional  measures  the  Air  Force  correlates  to  successful  operations  are  cost  avoidance, 
airlift  sortie  rates,  and  channel/standard  theater  air  route  (STAR)  efficiency  rates.  To  some 
degree,  cost  avoidance  is  ambiguous;  however,  U.S.  Transportation  Command 
(USTRANSCOM)  and  the  U.S.  Marine  Corps  were  recognized  as  the  2004  Supply  Chain 
Operational  Excellence  Award  winners.10  This  award  signified  USTRANSCOM’s  successful 
contribution  to  the  warfighter  with  a  “reported  cost  avoidance/savings  of  $26  million.”11 
Significantly,  the  newly  integrated  CENTCOM  Deployment  Distribution  Operations  Center 
(CDDOC)  effectively  played  a  major  factor  in  USTRANSCOM  winning  the  award.12 
Additionally,  staffs  brief  commanders  on  aircraft  sorties  every  day.  As  of  March  31,  2009,  airlift 
sorties  rank  the  highest  (1 1,940)  for  the  year  in  support  of  the  Global  War  on  Terrorism 
(GWOT).  This  is  over  3,000  more  than  Close  Air  Support/ Armed  Reconnaissance  sorties,  but  it 
does  not  mean  that  airlift  was  any  more  successful  flying  more  sorties.  Yet,  this  demonstrates  a 
misidentification  to  measure  successful  operations.  Lastly,  airlift  routes  (channels/STARs)  that 
compose  the  intratheater  airlift  system  are  analyzed  monthly,  quarterly,  and  yearly  according  to 
utilization  rates,  aircraft  seats  filled,  and  cargo  pallets  loaded.  These  statistics  are  adequate,  but 
are  often  misleading  because  low  efficiency  rates  do  not  account  for  aircraft  perfonnance 
limitations  and  physical  space  limitations  of  certain  outsized  cargo.  In  other  words,  an  aircraft 
sortie  may  report  thirty  percent  efficient,  but  in  actuality,  it  transported  the  maximum  weight 
allowable  due  to  climate  conditions.  In  this  instance,  analysts  should  have  reported  the  aircraft 
one  hundred  percent  efficient  and  effective,  but  it  was  not  the  case. 

Although  there  are  others,  these  five  measures  of  success  illustrate  the  Air  Force  tries  to 
define  success  directly  through  performance  calculations  without  regard  to  the  customer’s  need. 
This  declaration  is  in  no  manner  stating  the  efforts  of  personnel  working  within  the  intratheater 


11 


airlift  system  are  not  performing  a  valuable  service  supporting  the  warfighter.  Indeed,  increasing 
the  numbers  of  convoys  mitigated,  pallets  transported,  needless  cost  avoided,  sorties  flown,  and 
aircraft  capacity  maximized  are  absolutely  important  towards  a  successful  operation.  Rather,  the 
point  remains  every  action  must  focus  on  adapting  to  meet  the  customers’  requirements. 
Traditional  statistical  analysis  has  a  valid  merit,  but  the  best  course  of  action  is  an  Air  Force 
paradigm  shift  focused  on  what  its  customers  need.  In  order  to  better  evaluate  successful 
operations,  developing  statistical  measures  of  customers’  needs  would  be  more  appropriate 
combined  with  a  collection  of  customer  feedback  process. 

In  comparison,  Frederick  Smith  built  FedEx  on  fulfilling  the  customers’  requirement  and 
adapting  to  meet  the  requirement  when  it  changed.  As  FedEx  began  to  offer  their  overnight 
services  to  more  cities,  they  realized  infonnation  technology  must  be  utilized  “to  an  extent  that 
had  never  been  done  before.”14  In  fact,  FedEx  diligently  collects  customer  feedback  to  keep  in 
touch  with  the  changing  environment.  Handheld  bar-code  readers  and  online  package  status 
tracking  are  just  two  of  several  technological  advancements  that  FedEx  implemented  action  to 
improve  customers’  service.15  The  best  course  of  action  is  adapting  technology  in  concert  with 
customer  feedback  to  meet  changing  requirements. 

While  the  Air  Force  has  made  progress  in  allowing  intratheater  airlift  customers  the 
ability  to  track  shipments,  it  lags  behind  in  this  effort  frustrating  users.  One  of  the  biggest 
aggravations  of  AMD  personnel  is  the  inability  to  accurately  target  and  track  cargo.  Multiple 
sorties  are  often  wasted  searching  for  cargo  that  previously  transported,  or  mysteriously 
disappeared  in  the  aerial  port.  The  capability  to  track  cargo  is  referred  to  as  in-transit  visibility 
(ITV).  The  Radio  Frequency  Identification  Data  (RFID)  tag  is  one  capability  used  to  manage  and 
track  pallets  within  the  intratheater  airlift  system.  In  2004,  the  first  test  of  RFID  tags  allowed 


12 


internet  tracking,  but  this  system  has  not  been  fully  implemented.16  In  contrast,  FedEx  developed 
this  technology  twenty- five  years  earlier  in  1984  and  continued  seeking  advanced  technology 
becoming  “the  first  transportation  website  to  offer  online  package  status  and  tracking,  which 
enabled  customers  to  conduct  business  via  the  internet.”  More  importantly  to  note  is  that  FedEx 
realized  the  importance  of  ITV  for  its  customers  and  has  invested  additional  revenue  to  continue 
and  update  their  tracking  capability.  The  intratheater  airlift  system  is  roughly  twenty  years 
behind  commercial  air  cargo  systems  tracking  capability.  The  obvious  solution  for 
USCENTCOM’s  intratheater  airlift  system  is  to  raise  the  priority  for  ITV  technology.  This 
technology  has  existed  for  several  years,  yet  it  has  remained  a  low  priority  for  the  Air  Force. 

Although  both  models  have  large  amounts  of  resources  and  technology  to  acquire 
centralized  computer  systems,  FedEx  has  an  advantage  over  the  intratheater  airlift  system.  FedEx 
conceded  very  early  in  its  company’s  history  that  in  order  to  survive  they  had  to  have  a  single, 
comprehensive  computer  network  to  unify  operations.  The  military,  on  the  other  hand,  has 
incompatibility  issues  in  the  planning  community  from  logisticians  to  aircrew  planners.  The 
military  plans  using  the  Global  Decision  Scheduling  System  I  and  II  (GDSS),  Joint  Operational 
and  Planning  Execution  System  (JOPES),  Global  Air  Transportation  Execution  System 
(GATES),  and  an  advanced  Microsoft  Excel  spreadsheet  to  accomplish  the  mission.  Some  of  the 
major  problems  are  software  interfacing,  user  training  and  proficiency,  and  planning  information 
at  two  classification  levels,  unclassified  and  Secret.  The  best  course  of  action  is  for 
USTRANSCOM  to  streamline  seamless  interfacing  of  these  critical  computer  networks.  Multiple 
software  contracts  have  been  awarded  at  different  levels  of  command  with  no  overall  oversight 
as  to  how,  or  if  the  computer  programs  are  compatible  with  one  other. 


13 


Struggle  for  the  Joint  Cargo  Aircraft  (C-27J) 


The  secondary  purpose  for  this  research  paper  analyzes  the  conflict  between  the  Anny 
and  the  Air  Force  over  the  JCA  and  suggesting  alternative  solutions.  Although  the  upcoming 
Quadrennial  Defense  Review  (QDR)  will  propose  significant  changes  to  the  roles,  missions,  and 
capabilities  of  intratheater  airlift,  several  areas  are  still  in  need  of  review.  Specifically,  the  Army 
emphasizes  their  requirement  to  move  forces  to  point  of  need,  or  the  “last  tactical  mile.”  The  Air 
Force  remains  dedicated  to  maximizing  the  correct  mix  of  available  active  duty  and  reserve  air 
assets  to  accomplish  the  mission  efficiently.  While  both  Services  are  committed  to  satisfy 
specific  requirements  of  Special  Operations  Forces  (SOF),  they  struggle  over  the  allocation  of 
limited  resources  and  for  control  of  the  newly  acquisitioned  C-27J  Joint  Cargo  Aircraft  (JCA).  In 
an  attempt  to  reconcile  the  JCA  debate,  the  2009  Quadrennial  Roles  and  Missions  Review 
Report  stated,  “The  [Defense]  Department  detennined  Service  responsibilities  for  intratheater 
airlift  operations  are  appropriately  aligned,  and  the  option  that  provided  the  most  value  to  the 
joint  force  was  to  assign  the  C-27J  to  both  the  Air  Force  and  the  Army.”  The  report  further 
recognized,  “There  are  areas  for  improvement.”19  The  intent  of  this  compromise  is  to  improve 
joint  effectiveness  and  it  may,  but  it  raises  serious  concerns  over  how  the  two  Services 
coordinate  unity  of  command  to  achieve  a  unified  action.  A  truly  unified  action  would  not 
duplicate  efforts. 

An  additional  point  of  contention  surrounding  the  intratheater  airlift  system  and  inter¬ 
service  rivalry  is  the  Anny’s  requirement  to  lift  “time-sensitive/mission-critical”  cargo.  While 
acknowledging  the  Air  Force  is  the  Department  of  Defense  (DoD)  provider  of  Fixed  Wing 
intratheater  airlift,  the  Army  has  a  legitimate  function  for  acquiring  the  JCA.  The  Army  must 
provide  “on-demand  transport  of  time-sensitive/mission-critical  cargo  and  key  personnel  to 


14 


21 

forward  deployed  Army  units  operating  in  a  Joint  Operations  Area.”'  Historically,  the  Army 
met  operational  necessities  with  C-7  Caribous  in  Vietnam  and  fonner  Air  Force  C-23  Sherpas 
after  the  Cold  War.'  The  limited  range  and  payload  of  the  Sherpas  combined  with  the  age  and 
strain  on  the  1962  built  CH-47  transport  helicopters  justifiably  proves  the  Army’s  functional 
need  for  the  C-27  JCA.23 

Nevertheless,  this  service  rivalry  was  further  strained  by  former  Air  Force  Chief  of  Staff 
General  John  Jumper’s  2005  response  to  the  JCA,  “you  [the  Anny]  don’t  need  to  go  out  and  buy 
yourself  an  Air  Force — we’ve  got  one.”24  To  the  Air  Force’s  credit,  they  fully  accept  the 
traditionally  role  of  providing  “general  support”  airlift  for  common-users  and  “direct  support”  of 
land  operations.  The  direct  support  includes  transport  of  the  Anny’s  time-sensitive/mission- 
critical  cargo,  often  categorized  as  outsized  cargo  like  helicopter  and  tank  transports.  General 
support,  defined  by  JP  1-02,  consists  of  “airlift  service  provided  on  a  common  basis  for  all  DoD 
agencies  and,  as  authorized,  for  other  agencies  of  the  US.”  So,  if  the  Air  Force  is  filling  both 
the  Army’s  requirement  of  general  and  direct  support,  then  the  obvious  question  is  where’s  the 
disconnect?  The  problem  starts  with  allocation  and  priorities.  By  design,  the  intratheater  airlift 
system  maximizes  available  air  assets  according  to  the  GCC’s  priority  of  personnel  and  cargo 
transport.  Due  to  higher  priority  allocation,  the  Air  Force  cannot  fulfill  all  the  Army’s 
requirements  and  unfortunately,  critical  Army  missions  cannot  be  supported.  Assuming  the  Air 
Force  could  increase  their  level  of  support  to  Army  commanders,  would  they?  General  Norton 
Schwartz,  Air  Force  Chief  of  Staff  and  fonner  Commander  of  U.S.  Transportation  Command, 
displayed  some  doubt  when  he  said,  “Is  the  Air  Force  willing  to  attach  tactical  airlifters  to  an 

97 

Anny  brigade  commander  when  required?”' 


15 


This  is  a  battle  for  operational  control  of  assets.  Unity  of  command  is  more  effective 
when  all  resources  are  collectively  controlled,  which  supports  the  Air  Force’s  argument.  The 
JCA  plan  allocates  54  C-27Js  to  the  Army  for  direct  support  and  only  24  C-27Js  to  the  Air 
Force.  However,  the  complicated  portion  of  the  current  plan  is  when  the  Army’s  C-27s  are  not 
directly  supporting  its  primary  mission  that  the  Air  Force  can  assign  intratheater  airlift  missions 
in  concert  with  nonnal  Air  Force  intratheater  assets.  The  Air  Force  is  worried  they  will  not  have 
the  necessary  visibility  over  the  Army  C-27s  for  effective  allocation.'  Specifically,  the  Air 
Force  fears  situations  when  local  Army  commanders  will  not  relinquish  control,  or  make  the 
assets  available  for  intratheater  airlift  system  as  a  whole,  even  when  they  are  not  filling  the 
Anny’s  direct  support  role.  This  fear  can  be  agitated  when  the  Air  Force  is  blamed  for  not 
adequately  providing  enough  general  support  to  other  airlift  users,  especially  the  Army 
commanders  lacking  C-27  airlift  capability.  Drawing  an  important  lesson  from  a  FedEx 
perspective,  they  see/realize  a  valid  customer  requirement  and  adapt  to  meet  that  requirement. 
Specifically,  the  Air  Force  is  not  able  to  meet  all  the  “direct  support”  needs  of  the  Army.  The 
best  solution  for  the  JCA  allocation  is  complete  Service  separation,  to  include  any  aspirations  of 
temporary  Air  Force  operational  control  over  Army  C-27s.  The  bottom  line  is  a  properly 
equipped  Army  can  effectively  manage  the  majority  of  direct  support  requirements  better  than 
the  Air  Force  can.  The  bright  side  for  the  Air  Force  is  that  it  will  actually  free  up  additional  Air 
Force  assets  for  a  more  effective  allocation  plan.  The  planned  distribution  of  C-27s  will  not 
distort  the  joint  concept  of  operations. 

Recommendations 

1 .  Staggering  personnel  replacements  in  smart  intervals  offers  the  best  solution  to  maximize 
personnel  productivity  during  Air  Force  deployment  cycles. 


16 


2.  Traditional  statistical  analysis  has  a  valid  merit,  but  the  best  course  of  action  is  an  Air 
Force  paradigm  shift  focused  on  what  its  customers  need.  Developing  statistical  measures 
of  customers’  needs  is  more  appropriate  combined  with  a  customer  feedback  collection 
process.  This  criteria  better  defines  successful  operations. 

3.  The  best  course  of  action  is  adapting  technology  in  concert  with  customer  feedback  to 
meet  changing  requirements. 

4.  The  best  course  of  action  for  USCENTCOM’s  intratheater  airlift  system  is  to  raise  the 
Air  Force  priority  level  for  obtaining  ITV  technology.  This  technology  has  existed  for 
several  years,  yet  it  has  remained  a  low  priority  for  the  Air  Force. 

5.  The  best  course  of  action  is  for  USTRANSCOM  to  streamline  seamless  interfacing  of 
these  critical  computer  networks.  Multiple  software  contracts  are  continually  awarded  at 
different  levels  of  command  with  no  overall  oversight  as  to  how,  or  if  computer  programs 
are  compatible. 

6.  The  best  solution  for  the  JCA  allocation  is  complete  Service  separation,  to  include  any 
Air  Force  aspirations  of  temporary  operational  control  over  Army  C-27s. 

Conclusion 

In  conclusion,  this  research  paper  focused  on  the  inefficiencies  of  the  current 
USCENTCOM  intratheater  airlift  system  and  provided  a  comparison  to  an  efficiently  operated 
FedEx  Corporation.  The  overall  objective  was  to  find  solutions  and  recommend  strategies  for 
improvement.  Six  recommendations  were  suggested  to  make  the  intratheater  airlift  system  more 
effective  at  supporting  the  warfighter  in  future  conflicts.  The  two  models  have  differences,  yet 
possess  fundamental  similarities.  The  problem-comparison-solution  fonnat  connects  them 


17 


forming  a  relationship  that  allows  a  valid  academic  assessment.  This  comparison  provided 
positive  insight  and  perspective,  which  may  benefit  the  intratheater  airlift  structure  and  its 
operations.  Incorporating  FedEx  Corporation’s  successful  business  practices  will  increase 
productivity  and  effectiveness  of  the  intratheater  airlift  system  for  the  warfighter  in  future 
conflicts. 


18 


Notes 


I  HQ  AFDC/DR,  "Air  Force  Doctrine  Document  2-6.1  Airlift  Operations,"  3. 

'  Kern,  Jack  D.  Campaign  Planning:  Tools  of  the  Trade,  Second  Edition.  US  Anny  Command 
and  General  Staff  College,  Fort  Leavenworth,  KS,  June  2006,  5. 

Dean  Foust,  “Frederick  W,  Smith:  No  overnight  Success,”  BusinessWeek,  (20  September 
2004),  http://www.businessweek.com/magazine/content/04_38/b3900031_mz072.htm. 

4  CNN,  "Fortune  Magazine's  Top  1000  Companies,"  Fortune  Magazine,  (1995), 
http://www.money.cnn.com/magazines/fortune500_archive/full/1995/101.html. 

3  CNN,  "Fortune  Magazine's  Top  1000  Companies,"  Fortune  Magazine,  (5  May  2008), 
http://www.money.cnn.com/magazines/fortune500/2008/full  list/index.html. 

6.  Dean  Foust,  “Frederick  W,  Smith:  No  overnight  Success,”  Business  Week,  (20  September 
2004),  http://www.businessweek.com/magazine/content/04_38/b3900031_mz072.htm. 

7  Ibid. 

o 

"Joint  Publication  1-02  Department  of  Defense  Dictionary  of  Military  and  Associated  Terms," 
281. 

9  ACSC  interview  with  Major  General  Burt  Field,  01  October  2008. 

10  Supply  Chain  Integration,  http://www.acq.osd.mil/log/sci/2004_award.htm. 

II  Ibid. 

12CDDOC,  “Bridging  the  Gap  2004,”  http://www.supply-chain.org/galleries/default- 
file/USTRANSCOM/Supply/Chain/ Award/Package/Feb/2005. pdf. 

13* 

Air  Force-Magazine. Com,  “Daily  Report  eNewsletter,”  (3  April  2009),  http://www. airforce- 
magazine.  com/DRArchive/Pages/  default,  aspx . 


19 


14  Dean  Foust,  “Frederick  W,  Smith:  No  overnight  Success,”  BusinessWeek,  (20  September 
2004),  http://www.businessweek.com/magazine/content/04_38/b3900031_mz072.htm. 

15  Ibid. 

16  CDDOC,  “Bridging  the  Gap  2004,”  http://www.supply-chain.org/galleries/default- 
fde/USTRANSCOM/Supply/Chain/ Award/Package/Feb/2005. pdf. 

17  FEDEX,  “FedEx  Timeline,” 

http://about.dedex.designcdt.com/our_company/company_information/fedex_history/fedex_time 

line. 

18  DOD,  “Quadrennial  Roles  and  Missions  Review  Report,”  27. 

19  Ibid. 

20 

'  “Memorandum  of  Agreement  Between  the  Department  of  the  Anny  and  the  Department  of  the 
Air  Force,  16  June  2006”  2. 

21  Ibid. 

22  Hess,  “CRS  Report  for  Congress,  Military  Airlift:  The  Joint  Cargo  Aircraft  Program,”  1-2. 

23  Ibid  2. 

24  John  T.  Bennett,  “USAF  Chief:  Small  Fixed-Wing  Aircraft  Needed  for  Intra-Theater  Lift,” 
Inside  the  Air  Force,  September  2,  2005,  p.  2. 

25  Ibid  4. 

26 

"  "Joint  Publication  1-02  Department  of  Defense  Dictionary  of  Military  and  Associated  Terms," 
108. 

'  Hess,  “CRS  Report  for  Congress,  Military  Airlift:  The  Joint  Cargo  Aircraft  Program,”  6. 

28  Ibid  3. 


20 


Ibid  5. 


29 


21 


Bibliography 


HQ  AFDC/DR,  "Air  Force  Doctrine  Document  2-6.1  Airlift  Operations,"  3. 

Kern,  Jack  D.  Campaign  Planning:  Tools  of  the  Trade,  Second  Edition.  US  Anny  Command 
and  General  Staff  College,  Fort  Leavenworth,  KS,  June  2006,  5. 

Dean  Foust,  “Frederick  W,  Smith:  No  overnight  Success,”  BusinessWeek,  (20  September  2004), 
http://www.businessweek.eom/magazine/content/04_38/b3900031_mz072.htm. 

CNN,  "Fortune  Magazine's  Top  1000  Companies,"  Fortune  Magazine,  (1995), 

http://www.money.cnn.eom/magazines/fortune500_archive/full/1995/101.html. 

CNN,  "Fortune  Magazine's  Top  1000  Companies,"  Fortune  Magazine,  (5  May  2008), 
http://www.money.cnn.eom/magazines/fortune500/2008/full_list/index.html. 
http://www.businessweek.eom/magazine/content/04_38/b3900031_mz072.htm. 

"Joint  Publication  1-02  Department  of  Defense  Dictionary  of  Military  and  Associated  Terms," 
DOD,  “Quadrennial  Roles  and  Missions  Review  Report,”  27. 

“Memorandum  of  Agreement  Between  the  Department  of  the  Army  and  the  Department  of  the 
Air  Force,  16  June  2006”  2. 

Hess,  “CRS  Report  for  Congress,  Military  Airlift:  The  Joint  Cargo  Aircraft  Program,”  1-2. 

John  T.  Bennett,  “USAF  Chief:  Small  Fixed-Wing  Aircraft  Needed  for  Intra-Theater  Lift,” 
Inside  the  Air  Force,  September  2,  2005,  p.  2. 

ACSC  interview  with  Major  General  Burt  Field,  01  October  2008. 

Supply  Chain  Integration,  http://www.acq.osd.mil/log/sci/2004_award.htm. 


22 


CDDOC,  “Bridging  the  Gap  2004,”  http://www.supply-chain.org/galleries/default- 
fde/USTRANSCOM/Supply/Chain/ Award/Package/Feb/2005. pdf. 

Air  Force-Magazine. Com,  “Daily  Report  eNewsletter,”  (9  February  2009),  http://www. airforce- 
magazine.  com/DRArchive/Pages/  default,  aspx . 

http://www.businessweek.com/magazine/content/04_38/b3900031_mz072.htm. 

FEDEX,  “FedEx  Timeline,” 

http://about.dedex.designcdt.com/our_company/company_infonnation/fedex_history/fed 
ex  timeline 


23 


