UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
Washington, DC 20549 


SCHEDULE 14A 
(Rule 14a-101) 
INFORMATION REQUIRED IN PROXY STATEMENT 
SCHEDULE 14A INFORMATION 


Proxy Statement Pursuant to Section 14(a) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Amendment No. ) 


Filed by the Registrant [X] 
Filed by a Party other than the Registrant [ ] 


Check the appropriate box: 


[ ] Preliminary Proxy Statement 

[ ] Confidential, For Use of the 
Commission Only (as permitted 
by Rule 14a-6(e)(2)) 

[X] Definitive Proxy Statement 

[ ] Definitive Additional Materials 


[ ] Soliciting Material Pursuant to §240.14a-12 


FedEx Corporation 
(Name of Registrant as Specified In Its Charter) 


(Name of Person(s) Filing Proxy Statement, if Other Than the Registrant) 


Payment of Filing Fee (Check the appropriate box): 

[X] No fee required. 

[ ] Fee computed on table below per Exchange Act Rules 14a-6(i)(4) and 0-11. 
(1) Title of each class of securities to which transaction applies: 


(2) | Aggregate number of securities to which transaction applies: 


(3) Per unit price or other underlying value of transaction computed pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11 (set forth the amount on which the filing fee 
is calculated and state how it was determined): 


(4) Proposed maximum aggregate value of transaction: 


(5) Total fee paid: 


[ ] Fee paid previously with preliminary materials: 

[ ] Check box if any part of the fee is offset as provided by Exchange Act Rule 0-11(a)(2) and identify the filing for which the offsetting fee was paid 
previously. Identify the previous filing by registration statement number, or the form or schedule and the date of its filing. 
(1) Amount previously paid: 


(2) Form, Schedule or Registration Statement No.: 


(3) Filing Party: 


(4) Date Filed: 


Fed=x. 


Corporation 


2014 Annual Meeting 
of Stockholders 


Monday, September 29, 2014 
8:00 a.m. local time 


FedEx Express World Headquarters 
Auditorium 

3670 Hacks Cross Road, Building G 
Memphis, Tennessee 38125 


INFORMATION ABOUT THE ANNUAL MEETING 


Voting Matters and Board Recommendations 


FedEx's Board of Directors is furnishing you this proxy statement in connection with the solicitation of proxies on its 
behalf for the 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Our stockholders will be voting on the following matters at the 
annual meeting: 


Board’s 


Matter 
Proposal 1: Election of directors 


Recommendation Page 
For 14 


Proposal 2: Advisory vote to approve named executive officer compensation For 52 
Proposal 3: Ratification of the appointment of the independent registered 


public accounting firm 
Proposals 4 — 8: Stockholder proposals 


For 56 
Against 58 


Stockholders also will consider any other matters that may properly come before the meeting. 


How to Cast Your Vote and Annual Meeting Admission 


If you are a registered stockholder, you can vote by any of the following methods: 


Ss @aB BW A 


Online By Phone 
www.investorvote.com/FEDX 
through 09/28/2014 


If your shares are held by a bank, brokerage firm or other 
nominee, you are considered the “beneficial owner" of 
shares held in “street name.” If your shares are held in 
street name, these proxy materials are being forwarded 
to you by your bank, brokerage firm or other nominee 
(the “bank or broker”), along with a voting instruction 
form. To direct your bank or broker how to vote your 
shares, complete, sign and return the voting instruction 
form in the envelope provided or follow the instructions 
provided to you for voting your shares by telephone or on 
the Internet. To ensure your shares are voted in the way 
you would like, you must provide voting instructions by 
the deadline provided in the materials you receive from 
your bank or broker. As a beneficial owner, in order to be 


1-800-652-VOTE (8683) 
through 09/28/2014 


In Person 
With a ticket or 
proof of ownership 
and a valid photo 
identification 


Proxy Card 
Completing, signing and 
returning your proxy card 


able to vote your shares at the meeting, you must obtain 
a legal proxy from your bank or broker and bring it with 
you to hand in with your signed ballot. 


If you attend the annual meeting in person, you will need 
to present your admission ticket, or an account statement 
showing your ownership of FedEx common stock as of 
the record date, and a valid government-issued photo 
identification. The indicated portion of your proxy card or 
voting instruction form or the ticket accompanying your 
voting instruction form will serve as your admission ticket. 
If you are a registered stockholder and receive your proxy 
materials electronically, you should follow the instructions 
provided to print a paper admission ticket. 


Your vote is very important. Please vote whether or not you plan to attend the meeting. 


We are first sending the proxy statement, form of proxy and accompanying materials to stockholders on or about August 18, 2014. 


2014 Proxy Statement i 


Effect of Not Casting Your Vote 


If you are a registered stockholder and you do not sign 
and return your proxy card or vote electronically on the 
Internet or by telephone, no votes will be cast on your 
behalf on any of the items of business at the meeting. 


General Information 


The principal executive offices of FedEx Corporation 


are located at 942 South Shady Grove Road, Memphis, 


Tennessee 38120. 


FedEx’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year 
ended May 31, 2014, which includes FedEx’s fiscal 2014 
audited consolidated financial statements, accompanies 
this proxy statement. Although the Annual Report is 
being distributed with this proxy statement, it does not 
constitute a part of the proxy solicitation materials and is 
not incorporated by reference into this proxy statement. 


Reduce Mailing Costs 


If you hold your shares in street name and you do not 
instruct your bank or broker how to vote your shares, 
your broker may vote your shares in its discretion on 
the ratification of the appointment of the independent 
registered public accounting firm, but will not be allowed 
to vote your shares on any of the other proposals. 


By submitting your proxy (either by signing and returning 
the enclosed proxy card or by voting electronically on 
the Internet or by telephone), you authorize Christine 
P. Richards, FedEx's Executive Vice President, General 
Counsel and Secretary, and Alan B. Graf, Jr, FedEx’s 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 
to represent you and vote your shares at the meeting 
in accordance with your instructions. They also may 
vote your shares to adjourn the meeting and will be 
authorized to vote your shares at any postponements or 
adjournments of the meeting. 


If you vote on the Internet, you may elect to have next year’s proxy statement and annual report to stockholders delivered 
to you electronically. We strongly encourage you to enroll in electronic delivery. It is a cost-effective way for us to provide 


you with proxy materials and annual reports. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


PROXY SUMMARY 


This summary highlights information contained elsewhere in this proxy statement. This summary does not contain all of the 
information that you should consider, and you should read the entire proxy statement carefully before voting. Page references are 
supplied to help you find further information in this proxy statement. 


Corporate Governance Matters (see page 1) 


FedEx’s strong and independent Board of Directors The Board believes that this current leadership structure 
effectively oversees our management and_ provides provides the most effective governance of FedEx’s 
vigorous oversight of FedEx’s business and affairs in business and affairs for the long-term benefit of 
support of our mission of producing superior financial stockholders and promotes a culture and reputation of 
returns for our shareowners by providing high value- the highest ethics, integrity and reliability. 

added logistics, transportation and related business 
services through focused operating companies. The 
Board is currently comprised of 13 members — a 
combined Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Lead 
Independent Director and 11 other independent, active 
and effective directors of equal importance and rights. 


You can find detailed information about our corporate 
governance policies and practices in the Corporate 
Governance Matters section of the proxy statement. You 
can also access our corporate governance documents 
in the Governance & Citizenship section of the Investor 
Relations page of our website at http://investors.fedex.com. 


Corporate Governance Facts 


Majority Voting for Directors 

Annual Election of All Directors 

Diverse Board 

Annual Board and Committee Self-Evaluations 

Separate Chairman & CEO 

Lead Independent Director 

Independent Directors Meet Regularly Without Management Present 
Annual Independent Director Evaluation of Chairman and CEO 

Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Applicable to Directors 
Nominating & Governance Committee Composed of Independent Directors 
Stock Ownership Goal for Directors and Senior Officers 

Size of Board* 

Number of Independent Directors* 

Average Age of Directors* 

Average Director Tenure (in years)* 


* As of August 18, 2014 


2014 Proxy Statement _ iii 


Voting Matters and Board Recommendations 


Proposal 1 - Election of Directors (see page 14) 


You are being asked to elect the 12 nominees named 
in this proxy statement as directors for a term of one 


year. Other than Steven R. Loranger, each of our current 


Our Board recommends that you vote FOR the 
election of each of the twelve nominees. 


directors is standing for reelection. 


Director Nominees (see page 15) 


Director 


Director Nominee Age Since Independent Position Other public directorships AC ITOC CC NGC 


Frederick W. Smith 


James L. Barksdale 


John A. Edwardson 


Marvin R. Ellison 


Kimberly A. Jabal 


Shirley Ann Jackson 


Gary W. Loveman 


R. Brad Martin 


Joshua Cooper 
Ramo 


Susan C. Schwab 


David P. Steiner 


70 


1971 


Chairman, President and 
Chief Executive Officer of 
FedEx Corporation 
Chairman and President 
of Barksdale Management 
Corporation 

Former Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer of CDW 
Corporation 

Executive Vice President — 
U.S. Stores of The Home 
Depot, Inc. 

Chief Financial Officer of 
Path, Inc. 

President of Rensselaer 
Polytechnic Institute 


Chairman, President and 
Chief Executive Officer 
of Caesars Entertainment 
Corporation 

Chairman of RBM Venture 
Company 


Vice Chairman of Kissinger 
Associates, Inc. 

Professor at the University of 
Maryland School of Public 
Policy, Former U.S. Trade 
Representative 

Chief Executive Officer of 
Waste Management, Inc. 


Time Warner Inc. 


ACE Limited, 
Rockwell Collins, Inc. 


H&R Block, Inc. 


International Business Machines 


Corporation, Marathon Oil 


Corporation, Medtronic, Inc. and 
Public Service Enterprise Group 


Incorporated 


Caesars Entertainment 
Corporation, Coach, Inc. 


Chesapeake Energy 
Corporation, First Horizon 
National Corporation 


Starbucks Corporation 


The Boeing Company, Caterpillar 


Inc. 


TE Connectivity Ltd., Waste 
Management, Inc. 


Paul S. Walsh Chairman of Compass 


Group PLC 


Avanti Communications Group 
plc (Chairman), Compass Group 
PLC (Chairman), RM2 International 
S.A., Ontex Group NV, Unilever PLC 


(1) If elected, Messrs. Ellison and Loveman will become members of the Nominating & Governance Committee. 


(2) Ifelected, Ms. Jabal will become a member of the Audit Committee. 


(3) If elected, Mr. Walsh will replace Mr. Loranger as the Compensation Committee Chairman and will no longer be a member of the Nominating & 
Governance Committee. 


iv 2014 Proxy Statement 


Director Experience, Qualifications, Attributes and Skills (see page 14) 


The Board believes that it is desirable that the following experience, qualifications, attributes and skills be possessed by 
one or more of FedEx’s Board members because of their particular relevance to the company’s business and structure, 
and these were all considered by the Board in connection with this year’s director nomination process: 


XODNADDAAG 


Transportation International Financial Marketing Technological Energy Government Leadership 


Proposal 2 —- Advisory Vote to Approve Named Executive Officer Compensation (see page 52) 


Our executive compensation program is designed not this information demonstrates that our executive 


only to retain and attract highly qualified and effective 
executives, but also to motivate them to substantially 
contribute to FedEx’s future success for the long-term 
benefit of stockholders and reward them for doing so. 
We believe that there should be a strong relationship 
between pay and corporate performance, and our 
executive compensation program reflects this belief. 


The Compensation Discussion and Analysis, Summary 
Compensation Table and related compensation tables 
and narrative provide detailed information on the 
compensation of our named executive officers, and 
can be found on pages 20 through 51. We believe 


compensation program promotes the best interests of 
FedEx and our shareowners by enabling FedEx to retain 
and attract talented executive management, while 
ensuring that they are compensated in such a manner as 
to sustain and enhance long-term shareowner value. 


In the 2013 advisory vote, 95.4% of the voted shares 
supported the compensation of our named executive 
officers. 


Our Board recommends that you vote FOR this 
proposal. 


Proposal 3 - Ratify the Appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as FedEx’s Independent 
Registered Public Accounting Firm (see page 56) 


The Audit Committee is directly responsible for the 
appointment, compensation, retention and oversight 
of our independent registered public accounting 
firm and has specific policies in place to ensure its 
independence. The Audit Committee has appointed 
Ernst & Young LLP (“Ernst & Young") to serve as FedEx's 
independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal 
2015. Ernst & Young has been our independent registered 
public accounting firm since 2002. 


Fees paid to Ernst & Young for fiscal 2014 and 2013 are 
detailed on page 56. 


Representatives of Ernst & Young will be present at 
the meeting, will be given the opportunity to make a 
statement if they desire to do so and will be available to 
respond to appropriate questions. 


Our Board recommends that you vote FOR this 
proposal. 


Proposals 4 — 8: Five Stockholder Proposals, if properly presented (see pages 58 - 71) 


Five stockholder proposals are expected to be presented for a vote at the annual meeting. 


Our Board recommends that you vote AGAINST each of these proposals. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


Vv 


This page intentionally left blank. 


Corporation 


Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders 
To Be Held September 29, 2014 


To Our Stockholders: 


We cordially invite you to attend the 2014 annual meeting of FedEx’s stockholders. The meeting will take place in the auditorium at 
the FedEx Express World Headquarters, 3670 Hacks Cross Road, Building G, Memphis, Tennessee 38125, on Monday, September 29, 
2014, at 8:00 a.m. local time. We look forward to your attendance either in person or by proxy. 


The purposes of the meeting are to: 


Elect the twelve nominees named in the proxy statement as FedEx directors; 

Hold an advisory vote to approve named executive officer compensation; 

Ratify the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as FedEx's independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2015; 
Act upon five stockholder proposals, if properly presented at the meeting; and 

Transact any other business that may properly come before the meeting. 


OS 


Members of FedEx’s management team will be present at the meeting to respond to appropriate questions from stockholders. 


Only stockholders of record at the close of business on August 4, 2014, may vote at the meeting or any postponements or 
adjournments of the meeting. 


By order of the Board of Directors, 


Ol.se, V Vide 


Christine P. Richards 
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 


August 18, 2014 


IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING THE AVAILABILITY OF PROXY MATERIALS FOR THE STOCKHOLDER MEETING TO BE 
HELD ON SEPTEMBER 29, 2014: The following materials are available on the Investor Relations page of the FedEx website 
at http://investors.fedex.com: 


¢ The Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders To Be Held September 29, 2014; 
¢ The proxy statement; and 
¢ FedEx’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2014. 


Your vote is very important. Please vote whether or not you plan to attend the meeting. 


2014 PROXY STATEMENT 
Table of Contents 


Page 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MATTERS 0 
FECEX COLPOrate: GOVERN CE ssescetsscsseduesscrsasesntsvebustgiesicasass ies ebebascatessen rh aus csc ateacovdsentes cuss osc ap ase bskessctacocil seas nncnecraai avd aseigcoesciaraceneca ee nce cetbcctepcacaj ada oberiaee 1 
Gal Seles vi FS BU SUN 5ascscas hes esn ances cast steseteseenceascaSeetiprasncdnc ae eaacessaeserantansiasncases aaa seornefnales tel eelnceasbegacegv eaetestbtedtnasen enitsiaet crete tp auatinct nseeniacteaenne ate 1 
BGA RISK CW ELSI CINE ssesecizzscteectscoreieeaveitarseesdipteseerceestrth steve ts szrasatsneaee ar oaceanegvveetedtecdh ete vatvseerapduova eesesevosequcet eet otedbe these nceoveesh lenses edd edaseiden eeseaedi tale dona 2 
Executive Management Succession Planning... 
Director INdePENdeNCe ... reece 
Audit Committee Financial Expert... 
DIFECTO VAG aTO Ty RETIN IT SIAC ixasssecsescessceedeaccastiascrasetssesgesedvieaastedeasestdlstbeshesaceageacasteszeitescceatceacttasndleestenstendoe ceeteeore sen seen decane eld oststaseioeedtag omednscenseietenana saves! 4 
Stock Ownership Goal for Directors and Senior OFFICES ....ssesesseseeessnetnetnetetsetastinstinstieetineinetseiestintiastinetnetinetnetieetieeinetiaeinetieeinetinnetnetiattetieesintieetieeteetineeeeeeet 5 
POLES MPOISOMN PUIG sec sccrts ciassnvesceeteseaccesatesseseuegstsaaresueashegetottasbaaprsieraserss tess evaapeessaietscaaschgstesseasnicesttysstseesdeeqepasnsteeasteaettseesen dps toes are sSsen sop age oesasene hepsepdaenaetnrsere 5 
COMAPI CATIONS WITT): DFE C HORS secaecssceaeesnsssceeacpsneseeqasersereetsecpasezvtnqestossrane step dsonsieagncaguea eotaetacasdpapeiaielsschasostsea glen astaneeiteyecnnsoppbeseboaseasectepanencoeqtbnageeasiesseagtpsotendnuppvapee 5 
NGMINATION-OF DIFECHOF Candidates .ssasercactsscssetsscssdeatesstacssaserescecoades tava destsbeasbeseasatensovshereaceasb cae dteatavcssnlacaiaceaestavaveavensbeutoveesn ive scicntteoiasleareesuasdauleainrciesdantaamndebeeeass 5 
Majority-Voting Standard for Director El@CtiOns....sessssssessnessenetstetissietietiastintiistineiantieetentinetinstiinetietistineinetineieetineiietinetestinetietiietiatiastietinetintiieeinetietineieeted 6 
Policy on Review and Preapproval of Related Person Transactions ...sesessssssussusensssetustussiastusetiatinetntinsianeinstietinstintiastseiastieeiietintietinsteeiastiatineeineietintnte 6 
PRET EE TSOM Meir SAC GIONS isaac censesceast cess et ena aceanessevseeiceascastestr uae Sscracd us peashes ease ict igrant vanes deeecetetesstdseoussvrns cot deseeisahettsscedeeaateveacttesea spe etedoa neraaeeteienactoereaetnct 7 
STOCK OWNERSHIP 8 
COMMITTEES AND MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 10 
DIRECTORS’ COMPENSATION 12 
PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 14 
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 20 
Report of the Compensation Committee of the Board Of DireCtors....esessessessseteenstuetiestistinesinetnetentiastinttinetinetietinetietinetineieetineinetinttinetiastietinetietinetietiette 20 
COMPENMSAtIOM: DISCUSSIOMIaMG ANALYSIS  ssssazcssstscsésncetsesietaissaiteddvssesactaseesenentgsetseeceenastddencsetscsapelssteceesisveeceancwssedese See iscnecaser gat diaspeeeloged tclsddtsctheebchusttncluertneeseeiicete 20 
SUMMARY COMPSMSAt OF Tass zicscnssceseseaseeeeszcersceeavtactaisiescessbedtsosbdccaacse ded toecsasctas Sssdynoateedptatenie devi fossneastuastessGpsdisdetateaitoiscliti base tamsemes nea un eine tamaInsean aes 37 
Grants of Plan-Based Awards During Fiscal 2014 w.ssssesssstsssetsesnstseiaststiestineinstineinetinetestinetietieetietiestinneinetietinetietinetineinstieetnetinetinetineiaetineiaetinetieeinetnneinesnetie Al 
Outstanding Equity Awards at End of Fiscal 2014 u....ssesssssesseetsesstntiastistinstinetinseineinetieetnetinetietinetietieetentinetietinetietinetintiaetieetneenetinetisetnetineiaeeineeieeinetneeinetette 43 
Option Exercises and Stock Vested During Fiscal 2014... wn A5 
Fiscal 2014 Pension Benefits ...ssessssesesueeseseseneenseinetseinetsese 46 
Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change Of COntrol ..emsussessesusseetsenesinetustuntiastinetinseiastnsiassntinstietinetineiaetnstaetinsteeeieetineinstiaeinetinttnetinetneinesnete 48 
PROPOSAL 2 — ADVISORY VOTE TO APPROVE NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION 52 
EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS 54 
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 55 
AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES 56 
PROPOSAL 3 — RATIFICATION OF THE APPOINTMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT REGISTERED 
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 56 
STOCKHOLDER PROPOSALS: PROPOSALS 4 - 8 58 
INFORMATION ABOUT THE ANNUAL MEETING 72 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 77 
STOCKHOLDER PROPOSALS FOR 2015 ANNUAL MEETING 78 


APPENDIX A — Companies in Executive Compensation Comparison Survey Group A-1 


CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MATTERS 


FedEx Corporate Governance 


Our Board of Directors and management team are committed 
to achieving and maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance, as well as a culture of and reputation for the 
highest levels of ethics, integrity and reliability. We periodically 
review our governance policies and practices against evolving 
standards and make changes as appropriate. We also value 
the perspectives of our stockholders and other stakeholders, 
including our employees and the communities in which we 
operate, and take steps to implement their points of view 
where warranted. 


In considering possible modifications of our corporate 
governance policies and practices, our Board and management 
focus on those changes that are appropriate for our company 


Board Leadership Structure 


The leadership structure of our Board of Directors includes 
i) a combined Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive 
Officer, (ii) independent, active and effective directors of equal 
importance and rights, who all have the same opportunities 
and responsibilities in providing vigorous oversight of 
the effectiveness of management policies and (iii) a Lead 
ndependent Director. The Chairperson of the Nominating & 
Governance Committee, who is elected annually by a majority 
of the independent Board members, serves as the Lead 
ndependent Director. The Board believes that FedEx has been 
and continues to be well served by having the company’s 
founder, Frederick W. Smith, serve as both Chairman of the 
Board and Chief Executive Officer. The current Board leadership 
model, when combined with the composition of the Board, 
the strong leadership of our independent directors, Board 
committees and Lead Independent Director, and the highly 
effective corporate governance structures and processes 
already in place, strikes an appropriate balance between 
consistent leadership and independent oversight of FedEx’s 
business and affairs. 


The Board believes that FedEx's Bylaws and Corporate 
Governance Guidelines help ensure that strong and 
independent directors will continue to play the central 
oversight role necessary to maintain FedEx’s commitment to 
the highest quality corporate governance. Under our Bylaws 
and Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Board maintains 
the following long-standing practices, in addition to those 
described above: 


and our industry, rather than adopting a one-size-fits-all 
approach. Our focus is on the best long-term interests of our 
company, our stockholders and our stakeholders. 


The following sections summarize our corporate governance 
policies and practices, including our Board leadership structure, 
our criteria for director selection and the responsibilities and 
activities of our Board and its committees. Our corporate 
governance documents, including our Corporate Governance 
Guidelines, our Board committee charters and our Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics, are available in the Governance 
& Citizenship section of the Investor Relations page of our 
website at http://investors.fedex.com. 


- Directors Stand for Election Annually By Majority Vote. 
Under our Bylaws, all members of our Board of Directors are 
elected annually. In addition, our Bylaws require that we use 
a majority-voting standard in uncontested director elections 
in which a director nominee must receive more votes cast 
“for” than “against” in order to be elected. 


- Our Non-Management Directors Hold Regular Executive 
Sessions. Our non-management Board members meet 
at regularly scheduled executive sessions without 
management present in conjunction with each in-person 
Board meeting. The Lead Independent Director conducts 
and presides at these meetings. At least once a year, such 
meetings include only the independent members of the 
Board. In addition, the Lead Independent Director may call 
such meetings of the non-management Board members 
as he or she deems necessary or appropriate, may also be 
designated to preside at any Board or stockholder meeting 
and presides at all Board meetings at which the Chairman of 
the Board and Chief Executive Officer is not present. 


- Board Members May Submit Agenda Items/Information 
Requests. Each Board member may place items on the 
agenda for Board meetings, raise subjects that are not on 
the agenda for that meeting or request information that has 
not otherwise been provided to the Board. Additionally, the 
Lead Independent Director reviews and approves all Board 
meeting schedules and agendas and consults with the 
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer regarding 
other information sent to the Board in connection with 
Board meetings or other Board action. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


1 


2 


CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MATTERS 


Our Board Members Interact With Management. 
Consistent with our philosophy of empowering each 
member of our Board of Directors, each Board member has 
complete and open access to any member of management 
and to the chairman of each Board committee for the 
purpose of discussing any matter related to the work of 
such committee. The Lead Independent Director also serves 
as a liaison, but not a buffer, between the Chairman of the 
Board and Chief Executive Officer and independent Board 
members. 


Our Directors Are Encouraged to Interact With 
Stockholders. If any of our major stockholders asks to 
speak with any Board member on a matter related to FedEx, 
we encourage that director to make himself or herself 
available and will facilitate such interaction. Additionally, 
the Lead Independent Director is available to communicate 
with stockholders, as appropriate, if requested by such 
stockholders. 


Board Risk Oversight 


The Board of Directors’ role in risk oversight at FedEx is consistent 
with the company’s leadership structure, with management 
having day-to-day responsibility for assessing and managing 
the company’s risk exposure and the Board and its committees 
providing oversight in connection with those efforts, with 
particular focus on ensuring that FedEx’s risk management 
practices are adequate and regularly reviewing the most 
significant risks facing the company. The Board performs its 
risk oversight role by using several different levels of review. 
Each Board meeting begins with a strategic overview by the 
Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer 
that describes the most significant issues, including risks, 
affecting the company, and also includes business updates 
from each reporting segment CEO. In addition, at least annually, 
the Board reviews in detail the business and operations of each 
of the company’s reporting segments, including the primary 
risks associated with that segment. The Board also reviews the 
risks associated with the company's financial forecasts and 
annual business plan. 


Additionally, risks are identified and managed in connection 
with the company’s robust enterprise risk management 
("ERM") process. Our ERM process provides the enterprise with 
a common framework and terminology to ensure consistency 
in identification, reporting and management of key risks. The 
ERM process is embedded in our strategic financial planning 
process, which ensures explicit consideration of risks that affect 
the underlying assumptions of strategic plans and provides a 
platform to facilitate integration of risk information in business 
decision-making. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


Our Directors Can Request Special Board Meetings. 
Special meetings of the Board can be called by the Chairman 
of the Board and Chief Executive Officer or at the request of 
two or more directors. 


The Board or Any Board Committee Can Retain 
Independent Advisors. The Board and each Board 
committee have the authority to retain independent legal, 
financial and other advisors as they deem appropriate. 


Our Directors Conduct Annual Evaluations. Our directors 
evaluate the Board's processes on an annual basis to ensure, 
among other things, that its leadership structure remains 
effective, that Board and committee meetings are conducted 
in a manner that promotes candid and constructive dialog 
and that sufficient time has been allocated for such meetings. 


The Board has delegated to each of its committees 


responsibility for the oversight of specific risks that fall withi 
the committee's areas of responsibility. For example: 


- The Audit Committee reviews and discusses wit 


management the company’s major financial and other risk 
exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor 


and control such exposures. 


- The Compensation Committee reviews and discusses wit 
management the relationship between the company 


compensation policies and practices and the company’s risk 
management, including the extent to which those policies 


and practices create or decrease risks for the company. 


- The Information Technology Oversight 
reviews and discusses with management the quality an 
effectiveness of 


n 


h 


Committee 


d 


the company's information technology 


systems and processes, including the extent to which those 
systems and processes provide cybersecurity and protect 


the company from technology-related risks. 


- The Nominating & Governance Committee reviews an 
discusses with management the implementation an 
effectiveness of 
programs, including the Code of Business Conduct an 
Ethics and the employee hotline program. 


In addition, the Audit Committee is responsible for reviewin 


and discussing with management the guidelines and policies 


that govern the processes by which the company assesses an 
manages its exposure to all risk, including our ERM process. Th 
ERM process culminates in an annual presentation to the Aud 
Committee on the key enterprise risks facing FedEx. 


the company’s compliance and_ ethics 


d 
d 


d 


g 


d 


e 
it 


CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MATTERS 


Executive Management Succession Planning 


The Board of Directors has in place an effective planning process 


to select successors to 
and Chief Executive Off 


the Chairman of the Board, President 
icer and other members of executive 


management. The Nominating & Governance Committee, 


in consultation with th 
and Chief Executive Offt 
executive management 


works with 


receives 


e Chairman of the Board, President 
icer, annually reports to the Board on 
succession planning. The en 


tire Board 


the Nominating & Governance Committee and the 
Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer to 
evaluate potential successors to the CEO and other 
of executive management. Through this process, the Board 


Director Independence 


members 


information that includes qualitative evaluations of 


potential successors to the CEO and other executives. As noted 


The Board of Directors has determined that each member 
of the Audit, Compensation and Nominating & Governance 
Committees and, with the exception of Frederick W. Smith, 


each of th 
John A. E 


dwardson, 


arvin R. Ellison, Kimberly 


Shirley Ann Jackson, Steven R. Loranger, Gary W. 


R. Brad 


artin, Joshua 


David P. Steiner and Pau 
the applicable independence requirements of the 


Stock Exch 
Audit Com 
and the B 


oard’s more 


ange (includi 


Cooper Ramo, Susan C. 
S. Walsh) is independent a 


stringent standards for de 


director independence. 


Board, Pres 


Under the 


r. Smith is FedEx's Chairm 


ident and Chief Executive Officer. 


Board's standards of director independen 


e Board's current members Uames L. Barksdale, 


A. Jabal, 
Loveman, 
Schwab, 
nd meets 
ew York 


ng the additional requirements for 
mittee and Compensation Committee members) 


termining 
an of the 


ce, which 


are included in FedEx’'s Corporate Governance Guidelines, 
a director will be considered independent only if 
affirmatively determines that the director has no direct or 


indirect 


the Board 


material relationship with FedEx, other than as a 


director. The standards set forth certain categories or types 
of transactions, relationships or arrangements with FedEx, 
as follows, each of which (i) is deemed not to be a material 
relationship with FedEx, and thus (ii) will not, by itself, prevent a 
director from being considered independent: 


- Prior Employment of Director. The director was employed 
by FedEx or was personally working on FedEx’s audit as an 
employee or partner of FedEx’s independent auditor, and 
over five years have passed since such employment, partner 
or auditing relationship ended. 


- Prior Employment of Immediate Family Member. An 
immediate family member was an officer of FedEx or was 
personally working on FedEx's audit as an employee or 
partner of FedEx's independent auditor, and over five years 
have passed since such employment, partner or auditing 
relationship ended. 


above, each Board member has complete and open access to 
any member of management. We believe that this enhances 
the Board’s oversight of succession planning. The Chairman of 
the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer periodically 
provides to the Board his recommendations and evaluations of 
potential successors, along with a review of any development 
plans recommended for such individuals. Additionally, the 
Board periodically reviews and revises as necessary the 
company’s emergency management succession plan, which 
details the actions to be taken by specific individuals in the 
event a member of executive management suddenly dies or 
becomes incapacitated. 


- Current Employment of Immediate Family Member. An 


immediate family member is employed by FedEx in a non- 
officer position, or by FedEx’s independent auditor not as a 
partner and not personally working on FedEx’s audit. 


- Interlocking Directorships. An executive officer of FedEx 


served on the board of directors of acompany that employed 
the director or employed an immediate family member as 
an executive officer, and over five years have passed since 
either such relationship ended. 


Transactions and Business Relationships. The director or 
an immediate family member is a partner, greater than 10% 
shareholder, director or officer of a company that makes or 
has made payments to, or receives or has received payments 
(other than contributions, if the company is a tax-exempt 
organization) from, FedEx for property or services, and 
the amount of such payments has not within any of such 
other company’s three most recently completed fiscal years 
exceeded one percent (or $1 million, whichever is greater) 
of such other company’s consolidated gross revenues for 
such year. 


- Indebtedness. The director or an immediate family member 


is a partner, greater than 10% shareholder, director or officer 
of a company that is indebted to FedEx or to which FedEx 
is indebted, and the aggregate amount of such debt is less 
than one percent (or $1 million, whichever is greater) of the 
total consolidated assets of the indebted company. 


- Charitable Contributions. The director is a trustee, fiduciary, 


director or officer of a tax-exempt organization to which 
FedEx contributes, and the contributions to such organization 
by FedEx have not within any of such organization's three 
most recently completed fiscal years exceeded one percent 
(or $250,000, whichever is greater) of such organization's 
consolidated gross revenues for such year. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


3 


4 


CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MATTERS 


The Board broadly considered all relevant facts and 
circumstances, including the following immaterial transactions, 
relationships and arrangements: 


- Mr. Barksdale served as an officer of FedEx, but he left the 
company well over five years ago (his employment at FedEx 
ended in 1992). 


- In the ordinary course of business, FedEx makes purchases 
from Waste Management, Inc., an entity for which Mr. Steiner 
serves as Chief Executive Officer. The amount of the 
payments made by FedEx to Waste Management has not 
within any of its three most recently completed fiscal years 
exceeded one percent (or $1 million, whichever is greater) of 

its consolidated gross revenues for such year. 


r. Smith has made a passive investment (holding a less- 
than-5% equity interest) in a privately held entity with which 
r. Barksdale is affiliated. 


r. Barksdale has made an investment (holding a less- 
than-10% equity interest) in a privately held entity that is 
eaded by Mr. Smith’s daughter. 


a 


r. Martin serves as a director of First Horizon National 
Corporation with Robert B. Carter, FedEx’s Executive Vice 
President, FedEx Information Services and Chief Information 
Officer. 


- Messrs. Smith and Martin are members of the board of 
managers of Pilot Travel Centers LLC. 


- Mr. Martin and a FedEx executive officer serve on the board 
of trustees of the same Memphis-based school. 


Audit Committee Financial Expert 


- FedEx makes payments and charitable contributions to 


the University of Memphis, a non-profit entity for which 

r. Martin served as Interim President from July 2013 until 

ay 2014. Mr. Martin did not receive any compensation for 
his service as Interim President. The amount of the payments 
and contributions made by FedEx to the University of 
emphis represented between one and two percent of the 
university's gross revenues in its most recently completed 
fiscal year for which information is publicly available and 
ess than one percent in each of the two prior fiscal years. 
The Board determined that Mr. Martin is still an independent 
director under the Board's independence standards as he 
does not have a direct or indirect material relationship with 
either FedEx or the University of Memphis, other than as the 
former Interim President, and does not derive any financial 
benefit from these transactions. 


- In the ordinary course of business, FedEx makes purchases 


of aircraft and related services and equipment from The 
Boeing Company, for which Ambassador Schwab serves 
as a director. The payments made by FedEx to Boeing in its 
two most recently completed fiscal years represented less 
than one percent of Boeing's consolidated gross revenues 
for the year, but the payments made by FedEx to Boeing 
in its 2011 fiscal year represented between one and two 
percent of Boeing's consolidated gross revenues for the 
year. Ambassador Schwab recuses herself when the Board 
discusses or votes on Boeing-related matters. The Board 
determined that Ambassador Schwab is still an independent 
director under the Board's independence standards as 
she does not have a direct or indirect material relationship 
with either FedEx or Boeing, other than as a director, and 
does not derive any financial benefit from these ordinary 
course transactions. 


The Board of Directors has determined that at least one member of the Audit Committee, John A. Edwardson, is an audit committee 


financial expert as that term is defined in SEC rules. 


Director Mandatory Retirement 


A director must retire immediately before the annual meeting of FedEx's stockholders during the calendar year in which he or she 


attains age 72. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MATTERS 


Stock Ownership Goal for Directors and Senior Officers 


In order to encourage significant stock ownership by our 
directors and senior officers, and to further align their interests 
with the interests of FedEx’s stockholders, the Board of 
Directors has established a goal that (i) within four years after 
joining the Board, each non-management director own FedEx 
shares valued at three times his or her annual retainer fee, and 
(ii) within four years after being appointed to his or her position, 
each member of senior management own FedEx shares valued 
at the following multiple of his or her annual base salary: 


- 5x for the President and Chief Executive Officer; 


- 3x for the other FedEx executive officers, including the chief 
executive officers of FedEx's core operating companies; 


Policy on Poison Pills 


The Board of Directors has adopted a policy requiring 
stockholder approval for any future “poison pill” prior to or 
within twelve months after adoption of the poison pill. (A 
poison pill is a device used to deter a hostile takeover. Note 


Communications with Directors 


Stockholders and other interested parties may communicate 
directly with any member (including the Lead Independent 
Director) or committee of the Board of Directors by writing 
to: FedEx Corporation Board of Directors, c/o Corporate 
Secretary, 942 South Shady Grove Road, Memphis, Tennessee 
38120. Please specify to whom your letter should be directed. 
The Corporate Secretary of FedEx will review all such 
correspondence and regularly forward to the Board a summary 


Nomination of Director Candidates 


The Nominating & Governance Committee will consider 
director nominees proposed by stockholders. To recommend 
a prospective director candidate for the Nominating & 
Governance Committee’s consideration, stockholders may 
submit the candidate’s name, qualifications, including whether 
the candidate satisfies the requirements set forth in our 
Corporate Governance Guidelines and discussed in “Proposal 
| — Election of Directors — Experience, Qualifications, 
Attributes and Skills," and other relevant biographical 
information in writing to: FedEx Corporation Nominating & 
Governance Committee, c/o Corporate Secretary, 942 South 
Shady Grove Road, Memphis, Tennessee 38120. FedEx's Bylaws 


- 2x for executive vice presidents of FedEx’s core operating 
companies; and 


- 1x for certain other senior officers. 


For purposes of meeting this goal, unvested restricted stock 
is counted, but unexercised stock options are not. The Board 
also recommends that each director and senior officer retain 
shares acquired upon stock option exercises until his or her 
goal is met. The stock ownership goal is included in FedEx's 
Corporate Governance Guidelines. As of August 4, 2014, each 
director who had been a Board member for over four years 
(and Mr. Martin) and each executive officer owned sufficient 
shares to comply with this goal. 


that FedEx does not currently have, nor have we ever had, a 
poison pill.) The policy on poison pills is included in FedEx’s 
Bylaws and Corporate Governance Guidelines. 


of all such correspondence and copies of all correspondence 
that, in her opinion, deals with the functions of the Board or 
its committees or that she otherwise determines requires the 
attention of any member, group or committee of the Board of 
Directors. Board members may at any time review a log of all 
correspondence received by FedEx that is addressed to Board 
members and request copies of any such correspondence. 


require stockholders to give advance notice of stockholder 
proposals, including nominations of director candidates. For 
more information, please see “Stockholder Proposals for 2015 
Annual Meeting.’ 


The Board is responsible for recommending director candidates 
for election by the stockholders and for electing directors to 
fill vacancies or newly created directorships. The Board has 
delegated the screening and evaluation process for director 
candidates to the Nominating & Governance Committee, 
which identifies, evaluates and recruits highly qualified 
director candidates and recommends them to the Board. The 
Nominating & Governance Committee considers potential 


2014 Proxy Statement 


5 


CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MATTERS 


candidates for director that may come to the attention of 
the Nominating & Governance Committee through current 
directors, management, professional search firms, stockholders 
or other persons. The Nominating & Governance Committee 
has engaged a third-party executive search firm to assist in 
identifying potential director candidates. The Nominating & 
Governance Committee considers and evaluates a director 
candidate recommended by a stockholder in the same 
manner as a nominee recommended by a Board member, 
management, search firm or other sources. 


If the Nominating & Governance Committee determines that 
an additional or replacement director is necessary or advisable, 
the Nominating & Governance Committee may take such 


measures that it considers appropriate in connection with 
its evaluation of a potential director candidate, including 
interviewing the candidate, engaging an outside firm to gather 
additional information and making inquiries of persons with 
knowledge of the candidate's qualifications and character. In 
its evaluation of potential director candidates, including the 
members of the Board of Directors eligible for reelection, the 
ominating & Governance Committee considers the current 
size, Composition and needs of the Board of Directors and each 
of its committees. 


Majority-Voting Standard for Director Elections 


FedEx’'s Bylaws require that we use a majority-voting standard 
in uncontested director elections and contain a resignation 
requirement for directors who fail to receive the required 
majority vote. The Bylaws also prohibit the Board from 
changing back to a plurality-voting standard without the 
approval of our stockholders. Under the majority-voting 
standard, a director nominee must receive more votes cast 
“for” than “against” his or her election in order to be elected 
to the Board. In accordance with the majority-voting standard 
and resignation requirement, each director who is standing for 


reelection at the annual meeting has tendered an irrevocable 
resignation from the Board of Directors that will take effect 
if (i) the director does not receive more votes cast “for” than 
“against” his or her election at the annual meeting, and (ii) the 
Board accepts the resignation. FedEx’'s Bylaws require the Board 
of Directors, within 90 days after certification of the election 
results, to accept the director's resignation unless there is a 
compelling reason not to do so and to promptly disclose its 
decision (including, if applicable, the reasons for rejecting the 
resignation) in a filing with the SEC. 


Policy on Review and Preapproval of Related Person Transactions 


The Board of Directors has adopted a Policy on Review and 
Preapproval of Related Person Transactions, which is included in 
FedEx’s Corporate Governance Guidelines. The policy requires 
that all proposed related person transactions (as defined in 
the policy) and all proposed material changes to existing 
related person transactions be reviewed and preapproved 
by the Nominating & Governance Committee. To the extent 
the related person (as defined in the policy) is a director or 
immediate family member of a director, the transaction or 
change must also be reviewed and preapproved by the ful 
Board. The policy provides that a related person transaction 
or a material change to an existing related person transaction 
may not be preapproved if it would: 


interfere with the objectivity and independence of any 
related person's judgment or conduct in carrying out his or 
her duties and responsibilities to FedEx; 


2014 Proxy Statement 


not be fair as to FedEx; or 


- otherwise be opposed to the best interests of FedEx and its 
stockholders. 


The policy requires the Nominating & Governance Committee 
to annually (i) review each existing related person transaction 
that has a remaining term of at least one year or remaining 
payments of at least $120,000, and (ii) determine, based upon all 
material facts and circumstances and taking into consideration 
our contractual obligations, whether it is in the best interests of 
FedEx and our stockholders to continue, modify or terminate 
the transaction or relationship. 


Related Person Transactions 


In accordance with the policy described above, the 


Nominating & Governance Committee has 


reviewed the 


following related person transactions and determined that 
they remain in the best interests of FedEx and our stockholders: 


- In November 1999, FedEx entered into a multi-year, $205 


rights, including the right to name the s 
the NFL Washington Redskins professional 


approximate 10% ownership interest in th 
Redskins and joined its Leadership Counci 
directors. 


million naming rights agreement with Washington Football, 
Inc. Under this agreement, FedEx has certain marketing 


tadium where 
football team 


plays “FedExField.” In August 2003, Mr. Smith acquired an 


e Washington 
|, or board of 


- FedEx’'s policy on personal use of corporate aircraft requires 


officers to pay FedEx two times the cost 


of fuel, plus 


applicable passenger ticket taxes and fees, for personal 


CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MATTERS 


trips. Pursuant to this requirement, Mr. Smith, Alan B. Graf, Jr, 
FedEx’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 
and David J. Bronzcek, the President and Chief Executive 
Officer of FedEx Express, paid FedEx $305,252, $154,498 and 
$191,068, respectively, during fiscal 2014 in connection with 
certain personal use of corporate aircraft. 


- Mr. Smith’s son is employed by FedEx Express as the Vice 


President of Global Trade Services; and William J. Logue is the 
President and Chief Executive Officer of FedEx Freight — his 
brother and brother-in-law are employed by FedEx Services 
as a sales manager and sales executive, respectively. The 
total annual compensation of each of Mr. Smith's son and 
Mr. Logue's brother and brother-in-law for fiscal 2014 
(including any incentive compensation, all sales commissions 
and the Black-Scholes value of any stock option award) did 
not exceed $260,000. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


7 


8 


STOCK OWNERSHIP 


Directors and Executive Officers 


The following table sets forth the amount of FedEx’s common stock beneficially owned by each director, each named executive 
officer included in the Summary Compensation Table and all directors and executive officers as a group, as of August 4, 2014. Unless 
otherwise indicated, beneficial ownership is direct and the person shown has sole voting and investment power. 


Common Stock Beneficially Owned 


Number of Number of Percent of 
Name of Beneficial Owner Shares Option Shares Class ?) 
Frederick W. Smith 19,593,448 © 1,578,757 7AI% 
James L. Barksdale 53,800 50,030 . 
John A. Edwardson 18,119 50,030 s 
Marvin R. Ellison — — = 
Kimberly A. Jabal — = : 
Shirley Ann Jackson 8,111 3,700 ig 
Steven R. Loranger 7,800 ® 38,630 i 
Gary W. Loveman 16,854 27,790 * 
R. Brad Martin 56,500 14,390 m 
Joshua Cooper Ramo — 14,390 * 
Susan C. Schwab 3,185 29,830 2 
David P. Steiner 5,000 25,430 . 
Paul S. Walsh 8,500 44,030 # 
David J. Bronczek 67,824 ©) 255,987 ig 
Robert B. Carter 45,558 176,980 . 
T. Michael Glenn 216,639" 196,897 x 
Alan B. Graf, Jr. 198,820® 209,397 x 
All directors and executive officers as a group (20 persons) 20,438,590") 3,032,725 8.18% 


* Less than 1% of FedEx’s outsta 


( 


( 
( 


1) Reflects the number of shares th 
headed “Number of Shares,” bu 


2) Based on 283,957,730 shares ou 


3) Includes 15,449,071 shares ow 
ompany, Inc. (“Enterprise”), a family holdin 


ank, Memphis, Tennessee, as 


n 
Owned by a family trust. 


aS HD ON 


co 
5 S 
a a 


\o 
S 
a 


on a one-for-one basis. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


tstanding 0 


rustee of a 


cludes 2,361 shares held in FedEx’s retirem 


ncludes 7,250 shares owned by R. Brad Mar 
ncludes 686 shares held in FedEx’s retirement savin 


ncludes 88,750 shares owned by Glenn Family Par 
udes 563 shares held in FedEy’s retirement savi 


g comp 
rust of 


in Fam 


ent savi 


ding common stock. 


at can be acquired at August 4, 2014, or within 60 days thereafter through the exercise of stock options. These shares are excluded from the column 
included in the ownership percentages reported in the column headed “Percent of Class.” 


August 4, 2014. 
ed by Mr. Smith (4,000,000 of such shares have been pledged as security by Mr. Smith), 4,141,280 shares owned by Frederick Smith Enterprise 


any (117,000 of such shares have been pledged as security by Enterprise) and 736 shares owned by Mr. Smith’s spouse. Regions 
which Mr. Smith is the lifetime beneficiary, holds 55% of Enterprise’s outstanding stock, and Mr. Smith owns 45% directly. 
ngs plan. Mr. Smith’s business address is 942 South Shady Grove Road, Memphis, Tennessee 38120. 


ily Foundation and 1,500 shares owned by Mr. Martin’s spouse. 


gs plan. 
ners, L.P. Mr. Glenn disclaims beneficial ownership of these shares except to the extent of his pecuniary interest therein. Also 
gs plan. 


udes 47,400 shares owned by family trusts and 440 shares held in FedEx’s retirement savings plan. 


udes 4,050 shares held in FedEx’s retirement savi 


ngs plan and 20 stock units held in a deferred compensation plan. The stock units are payable in shares of FedEx common stock 


Significant Stockholders 


STOCK OWNERSHIP 


The following table lists certain persons known by FedEx to own beneficially more than five percent of FedEx’s outstanding shares 


of common stock as of March 31, 2014. 


Dodge & Cox 
555 California Street, 40th Floor 
San Francisco, California 94104 

PRIMECAP Management Company 
225 South Lake Avenue, Suite 400 
Pasadena, California 91101 

The Vanguard Group, Inc. 

100 Vanguard Boulevard 

Malvern, Pennsylvania 19355 


Amount and Nature of 


BeneficialOwnership _ Percent of Class 
5,160,662" 5.14% 
8,864,296 2 6.39% 
5,884,453 5.38% 


(1) Dodge & Cox, a registered investment advisor, had sole voting power over 14,252,522 shares and sole investment power over all 15,160,662 shares. 
(2) PRIMECAP Management Company, a registered investment advisor, had sole voting power over 1,578,739 shares and sole investment power over all 18,864,296 shares. 


3 


over 429,573 shares. 


he Vanguard Group, Inc., a registered investment advisor, had sole voting power over 471,386 shares, sole investment power over 15,454,880 shares and shared investment power 


Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance 


Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires 
directors and certain officers of FedEx and persons who own 
more than ten percent of FedEx’s common stock to file with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC’) initial reports 
of beneficial ownership (Form 3) and reports of subsequent 
changes in their beneficial ownership (Form 4 or Form 5) of 
FedEx’s common stock. Such directors, officers and greater- 
than-ten-percent stockholders are required to furnish FedEx 
with copies of the Section 16(a) reports they file. The SEC has 
established specific due dates for these reports, and FedEx is 
required to disclose in this proxy statement any late filings or 
ailures to file. 


—h 


Based solely upon a review of the copies of the Section 16(a) 
reports (and any amendments thereto) furnished to FedEx and 
written representations from FedEx's directors and reporting 
officers that no additional reports were required, FedEx believes 
that its directors and reporting officers complied with all these 
filing requirements for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2014. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


9 


COMMITTEES AND MEETINGS OF 
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 


Committees 


The Board of Directors has a standing Audit Committee, by the Board of Directors, is available on the FedEx website 
Compensation Committee, Information Technology at http://investors.fedex.com in the Governance & Citizenship 
Oversight Committee and Nominating & Governance section under “Committee Charters.” Committee memberships 
Committee. Each committee's written charter, as adopted are currently as follows: 


Audit Committee 


Committee functions: Committee members 

+ oversees the independent registered public accounting firm's qualifications, independence and performance; John A. Edwardson (Chairman) 
Gary W. Loveman 

R. Brad Martin 

Joshua Cooper Ramo 


assists the Board of Directors in its oversight of (i) the integrity of FedEx’s financial statements; (ii) the effectiveness of 
FedEx's disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting; (iii) the performance of the 
internal auditors; and (iv) FedEx’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; 


preapproves all audit and allowable non-audit services to be provided by FedEx’s independent registered public FY14 meetings held: 9 
accounting firm; and ; 
reviews and discusses with management and the Board of Directors (i) the guidelines and policies that govern the 

processes by which the company assesses and manages its exposure to risk and (ii) the company’s major financial 

and other risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures. 


Compensation Committee 


Committee functions: Committee members 
evaluates, together with the independent members of the Board, the performance of FedEx’s Chairman of the Board, — Steven R. Loranger (Chairman) 
President and Chief Executive Officer and recommends his compensation for approval by the independent directors; — Marvin R. Ellison 

Shirley Ann Jackson 


Susan C. Schwab 
reviews and discusses with management the Compensation Discussion and Analysis and produces a report Paul S. Walsh 


recommending whether the Compensation Discussion and Analysis should be included in the proxy statement; and 


helps discharge the Board's responsibilities relating to the compensation of executive management; 


oversees the administration of FedEx’s equity compensation plans and reviews the costs and structure of key FY14 meetings held: 6 
employee benefit and fringe-benefit plans and programs. 


Information Technology Oversight Committee 


Committee functions: Committee members 

+ appraises major information technology ("IT") related projects and technology architecture decisions; James L. Barksdale (Chairman) 
Kimberly A. Jabal 

R. Brad Martin 

Joshua Cooper Ramo 

advises FedEx’s senior IT management team and the Board of Directors on IT-related matters. Susan C. Schwab 


ensures that FedEx’s IT programs effectively support FedEx’s business objectives and strategies; 


monitors and assesses FedEx's management of IT-related compliance risks, including IT-related internal audits; and 


FY14 meetings held: 6 


10 2014 Proxy Statement 


Nominating & Governance Committee 


COMMITTEES AND MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 


Committee functions: 
+ identifies individuals qualified to become Board members; 


recommends to the Board director nominees to be proposed for election at the annual meeting of stockholders; 


recommends to the Board directors for appointment to Board committees; and 


Committee members 
David P. Steiner (Chairman) 
James L. Barksdale 

Shirley Ann Jackson 

Paul S. Walsh 


+ assists the Board in developing and implementing effective corporate governance, compliance and ethics programs. 


In addition, as discussed above under “Corporate Governance 
Matters Board Risk Oversight,” each Board committee 
has responsibility for the oversight of specific risks that fall 
within the committee's areas of responsibility. Also, the Audit 
Committee is responsible for reviewing and discussing with 
management the guidelines and policies that govern the 
processes by which the company assesses and manages its 
exposure to all risk, including our ERM process. 


FY14 meetings held: 6 


The Board of Directors has approved reconstituting the 
committees so that, immediately following the annual 
meeting, if all of the director nominees are elected, committee 
memberships will be as follows: 


Information Technology 
Oversight Committee 


James L. Barksdale (Chairman) 
Kimberly A. Jabal 

R. Brad Martin 

Joshua Cooper Ramo 

Susan C. Schwab 


Audit Committee 

John A. Edwardson (Chairman) 
Kimberly A. Jabal 

Gary W. Loveman 

R. Brad Martin 

Joshua Cooper Ramo 


Nominating & 
Governance Committee 


David P. Steiner (Chairman) 
James L. Barksdale 

Marvin R. Ellison 

Shirley Ann Jackson 

Gary W. Loveman 


Compensation Committee 
Paul S. Walsh (Chairman) 
Marvin R. Ellison 

Shirley Ann Jackson 

Susan C. Schwab 


Board Meetings and Meeting Attendance 


During fiscal 2014, the Board of Directors held six regular meetings and one special meeting. The average attendance of all directors 
at Board and committee meetings was 99%. Each director attended at least 94% of the aggregate meetings of the Board and any 


committees on which he or she served. 


Attendance at Annual Meeting of Stockholders 


FedEx expects all Board members to attend annual meetings of stockholders. Each member of the Board of Directors attended the 


2013 annual meeting of stockholders. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


11 


12 


DIRECTORS’ COMPENSATION 


Outside Directors’ Compensation 


During the first two quarters of fiscal 2014, non-management 
(outside) directors were paid: 


- a quarterly retainer of $20,000; 
- $2,000 for each in-person Board meeting attended; and 
- $2,000 for each in-person committee meeting attended. 


Outside directors who attended a Board or committee 
meeting telephonically were paid 75% of the applicable in- 
person meeting fee. 


In September 2013, the Board of Directors and the 
Compensation Committee conducted their annual review of 
outside director compensation and approved the replacement 
of the quarterly retainer with an annual retainer and the 
removal of meeting fees, both effective December 1, 2013, but 
no change to committee chairperson fees (discussed below). 
As a result, outside directors are currently paid an annual 
retainer of $111,000. Outside directors elected at the 2013 
annual meeting of stockholders received a $55,500 retainer 
payment in December 2013; thereafter, the full annual retainer 
will be paid following each annual meeting of stockholders, 
beginning with the 2014 annual meeting. Each outside director 
who was elected at the 2013 annual meeting received a stock 


option for 3,700 shares of common stock. Outside directors 
who were elected to the Board after the 2013 annual meeting 
received the applicable pro rata portion of the annual retainer 
and stock option grant in connection with his or her election. 


For fiscal 2014, chairpersons of the Compensation, Nominating 
& Governance and Information Technology Oversight 
Committees were paid an additional annual fee of $13,500. The 
Audit Committee chairperson was paid an additional annual 
fee of $22,500. 


Frederick W. Smith, the only director who is also a FedEx 
employee, receives no additional compensation for serving as 
a director. 


The Compensation Committee annually reviews director 
compensation, including, among other things, comparing 
FedEx’s director compensation practices with those of other 
companies with annual revenues between $20 billion and 
$70 billion. Before making a recommendation regarding 
director compensation to the Board, the Compensation 
Committee considers that the directors’ independence may 
be compromised if compensation exceeds appropriate levels 
or if FedEx enters into other arrangements beneficial to the 
directors. 


Retirement Plan for Outside Directors 


In July 1997, the Board of Directors of FedEx Express (FedEx’s 
predecessor) voted to freeze the Retirement Plan for Outside 
Directors (that is, no further benefits would be earned under 
this plan). Concurrent with the freeze, the Board amended 
the plan to accelerate the vesting of the benefits for each 
outside director who was not yet vested under the plan. This 
plan is unfunded and any benefits under the plan are general, 
unsecured obligations of FedEx. Once all benefits are paid 
from the plan, it will be terminated. 


The plan benefit payable to the one individual who served on 
the Board during fiscal 2014 who has not yet received any plan 
benefits will be paid as a single lump sum distribution. The lump 


Name 
PS. Walsh 


(1) Discounted from the age 60 normal retirement date provided for in the plan. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


sum distribution is payable on or before the fifteenth business 
day of the month immediately following the later of the date of 
the director's retirement and the date he attains age 60. In the 
event of the outside director's death, his surviving spouse shall 
be entitled to receive the lump sum payment. The following 
table sets forth for the one director entitled to receive future 
benefits under the plan who served on the Board during fiscal 
2014, the amount payable to him assuming a hypothetical 
retirement date of June 1, 2014. 


Lump Sum 
Payment Amount 
($) 

65,802) 


Fiscal 2014 Director Compensation 


DIRECTORS’ COMPENSATION 


The following table sets forth information regarding the compensation of FedEx’'s non-employee (outside) directors for the fiscal 
year ended May 31, 2014: 


Name 

J.L. Barksdale 
J.A. Edwardson 
M.R. Ellison 
K.A. Jabal 

S.A. Jackson 
S.R. Loranger 
GW. Loveman 
R.B. Martin 
J.C. Ramo 

S.C. Schwab 
J.1. Smith @ 
D.P. Steiner 
PS. Walsh 


(1) Includes meeting fees, retai 


2,482 shares upon her elec 
grant date fair value of each 


Fees Earned 


orPaidin Option All Other 
Cash Awards Compensation Total 
(5) (S)e" ($) ($) 
127,000 50,175 © 277,175 
131,500 150,175 O 281,675 
62,160 87,435 0 149,595 
89,910 125,298 O 215,208 
113,500 1ISO175 0 263,675 
127,000 150,175 QO 277,175 
114,500 150,175 0 264,675 
08,000 50,175 O 258,175 
108,000 150,175 QO 28175 
08,000 50,175 O 258,175 
36,555 0 356,987 393,542 
22,500 50,175 O 272,675 
108,000 150,175 QO 258175 
ner payments and committee chairperson fees (as applicable). See “— Outside Directors’ Compensation” above. 

(2) On September 23, 2013, each outside director elected at the 2013 annual meeting received a stock option for 3,700 shares of common stock. Ms. Jabal received a stock option for 
ion to the Board on December 9, 2013, and Mr. Ellison received a stock option for 1,753 shares upon his election to the Board on March 10, 2014. The 
such option was computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 and is set forth in this column. Assumptions used in the calculation of these amounts 
ur audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2014, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2014. Stock 


are included in note 10 to 0 
options granted to the outs 


ide directors generally vest fully one year after the grant date. 


(3) The following table sets for 


Name 

J.L. Barksdale 
J.A. Edwardson 
M.R. Ellison 
K.A. Jabal 

S.A. Jackson 
S.R. Loranger 
GW. Loveman 
R.B. Martin 
J.C. Ramo 

S.C. Schwab 
D.P. Steiner 
PS. Walsh 


(4) Joshua |. Smith retired as a director immediately before the 2013 annual meeting. The amount of the “All Other Compensation” column for Mr. Smith includes his $313,811 lump 


h the aggregate number of outstanding stock options held by each current outside director listed in 


he above table as of May 31, 2014: 
Options 
Outstanding 
50,030 
50,030 
1,753 
2,482 
3,700 
38,630 
27,790 
14,390 
14,390 
29,830 
25,430 
44,030 


sum distribution under the Retirement Plan for Outside Directors, $24,546 for a retirement gift and a $18,630 tax reimbursement payment relating to his retirement gift. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


13 


PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 


All of FedEx's directors are elected at each annual meeting of 
stockholders and hold office until the next annual meeting 
of stockholders and until their successors are duly elected 
and qualified. The Board of Directors currently consists of 
thirteen members. Steven R. Loranger is retiring as a director 
immediately before this annual meeting and is not standing for 
reelection. The Board proposes that each of the other current 
directors be reelected to the Board. Ms. Jabal and Mr. Ellison 
were initially elected as directors by the Board in December 
2013 and March 2014, respectively. Frederick W. Smith, FedEx’s 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and the 
members of the Nominating & Governance Committee had 
recommended Ms. Jabal and Mr. Ellison as nominees. 


Effective upon the retirement of Mr. Loranger, the size of 
the Board will be decreased to twelve members. Each of the 
nominees elected at this annual meeting will hold office until 
the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2015 and 
until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified. 


Each nominee has consented to being named in this proxy 
statement and has agreed to serve if elected. If a nominee 
is unable to stand for election, the Board of Directors may 
either reduce the number of directors to be elected or select 
a substitute nominee. If a substitute nominee is selected, the 
proxy holders may vote your shares for the substitute nominee. 


Under FedEx's majority-voting standard, each of the twelve 
director nominees must receive more votes cast “for” than 
“against” his or her election in order to be elected to the Board. 
For more information, please see “Corporate Governance 
Matters — Majority-Voting Standard for Director Elections.” 


YOUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS THAT 
YOU VOTE “FOR” THE ELECTION OF EACH OF THE 
TWELVE NOMINEES. 


Experience, Qualifications, Attributes and Skills 


The Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee seeks 
director nominees with the skills and experience needed to 
properly oversee the interests of the company. The Committee 
carefully evaluates each candidate to ensure that he or she 
possesses the experience, qualifications, attributes and skills 
that the Committee has found are necessary for an effective 
board member. These crucial qualities include, among others: 


- The highest level of personal and professional ethics, 
integrity and values; 


» Practical wisdom and mature judgment; 
- Aninquiring and independent mind; 


- Expertise that is useful to FedEx and complementary to the 
background and experience of other Board members; and 


- Willingness to represent the best interests of all stockholders 
and objectively appraise management performance. 


In addition to the qualifications that each director nominee 
must have, the Board believes that one or more of FedEx’s Board 
members should possess the experience and expertise listed 
below because of their particular relevance to the company’s 
business and structure. These were all considered by the Board 
in connection with this year's director nomination process. 


- Transportation Industry Experience 
- International Experience 

- Financial Expertise 

- Marketing Expertise 

- Technological Expertise 

- Energy Expertise 

- Government Experience 


- Leadership Experience 


Diversity: The Board is committed to diversity and inclusion and is always looking for highly qualified candidates, including 
women (Ms. Jabal, Dr. Jackson and Ambassador Schwab) and minorities (Dr. Jackson and Mr. Ellison), who meet our criteria. The 


Board seeks, and believes it has found in this group of nominees, a diverse blend of experience and perspectives, institutional 
knowledge and personal chemistry, and directors who will provide sound and prudent guidance with respect to all of FedEx’s 
operations and interests. 


Below you will find each nominee's biography along with other pertinent information, including a selection of each Board nominee's 
skills and qualifications. Following the biographies, we have included a chart that exhibits the collective experience, qualifications, 


attributes and skills of our Board nominees. 


14 2014 Proxy Statement 


PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 


Nominees for Election to the Board 


Frederick W. Smith 


Age: 70 

Director since: 1971 

Committees: None 

Other public directorships: None 


r. Smith is the company’s founder and has been Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of FedEx since 1998 and Chairman of FedEx Express since 
1975. He was Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of FedEx Express from 1983 to 1998, Chief Executive Officer of FedEx Express from 1977 to 1998, 
and President of FedEx Express from 1971 to 1975. 


Skills and Qualifications: 
Transportation Industry: Founder of our company and the pioneer of the express transportation industry. 
International: Leads our multinational company and has served on the board of the Council on Foreign Relations and as chairman of the U.S—China 
Business Council and the French—American Business Council. 
Energy: Co-chairman of the Energy Security Leadership Council. 


James L. Barksdale 


Age: 71 

Director since: 1999 

Committees: Information Technology Oversight (Chairman), Nominating & Governance 
Other public directorships: Time Warner Inc. 


r. Barksdale is Chairman and President of Barksdale Management Corporation, an investment management company, a position he has held since 1999. He is also the 
former Managing Partner of The Barksdale Group, a venture capital firm, a position he held from 1999 to 2013. He was President and Chief Executive Officer of Netscape 
Communications Corporation, a provider of software, services and website resources to Internet users, from 1995 to 1999. He held various senior management positions 
at FedEx Express from 1979 to 1992, including Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and was a director of FedEx Express from 1983 to 1991. He was 
previously a director of Sun Microsystems, Inc. From January 2012 to June 2012, he served as the interim Executive Director of the Mississippi Development Authority. 


Skills and Qualifications: 
+ Transportation Industry: Held various senior management positions at our company during its early years. 
+ Technology: Has held executive positions with multiple technology companies. 

Government: Served on the U.S. President's Intelligence Advisory Board for seven years. 


John A. Edwardson 


Age: 65 

Director since: 2003 

Committees: Audit (Chairman) 

Other public directorships: ACE Limited and Rockwell Collins, Inc. 


r. Edwardson is the former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of CDW Corporation, a provider of technology products and services, serving as Chief 
Executive Officer from 2001 to September 2011 and as Chairman from 2001 to December 2012. He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Burns 
nternational Services Corporation, a provider of security services, from 1999 to 2000. He was President and Chief Operating Officer of UAL Corporation (the 
parent company of United Air Lines, Inc.), an airline, from 1995 to 1998. He is a former director of CDW Corporation. 


Skills and Qualifications: 

+ Transportation Industry: Former President and COO of a major airline. 
Financial: Former CFO of two public companies. 

Technology: Former CEO of a technology products and services provider. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


15 


PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 


Marvin R. Ellison 


Age: 49 

Director since: 2014 

Committees: Compensation 

Other public directorships: H&R Block, Inc. 


Mr. Ellison has been Executive Vice President — U.S. Stores of The Home Depot, Inc.,a home improvement specialty retailer, since August 2008. From June 2002 
o August 2008, he served in a variety of operational roles at The Home Depot, including as President — Northern Division and as Senior Vice President — Global 
Logistics. Prior to joining The Home Depot, Mr. Ellison spent 15 years at Target Corporation in a variety of operational roles. 


Skills and Qualifications: 
Transportation Industry: Served in a variety of logistics roles during his career, including as Senior Vice President — Global Logistics at The Home Depot. 


Leadership: Significant executive leadership experience gained from executive positions held at The Home Depot. 


Kimberly A. Jabal 


Age: 45 

Director since: 2013 

Committees: Information Technology Oversight 
Other public directorships: None 


Ms. Jabal currently is the Chief Financial Officer and oversees the legal and human resources functions at Path, Inc., a privately-held social networking 
company. Prior to joining Path in March 2013, she served as vice president of finance at Lytro, Inc., an early-stage company focused on building the world’s 
first consumer lightfield camera. She served in various capacities at Google from 2003 to 2011, including as director of engineering finance, director of investor 
relations and director of online sales finance. Prior to Google, Ms. Jabal spent two years at Goldman Sachs in technology investment banking and eight years 
with Accenture working in information technology. 


Skills and Qualifications: 
Financial: CFO of a privately-held social networking company. 


» Technology: Has extensive information technology experience, having spent eight years serving in various capacities with Google and eight years with 
Accenture designing and building technical infrastructure for major IT systems implementations at global companies. 


Shirley Ann Jackson 


Age: 68 

Director since: 1999 

Committees: Compensation, Nominating & Governance 

Other public directorships: International Business Machines Corporation, Marathon Oil Corporation, Medtronic, Inc. 
and Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated 


Dr. Jackson is President of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI), a technological research university, a position she has held since 1999. She was Chairman 
of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) from 1995 to 1999 and Commissioner of the NRC from 1995 to 1999. Dr. Jackson has been a member of 
he President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) since 2009 and is a trustee of MIT. (member of the M.I-T. Corporation). She is a 
member of the International Security Advisory Board to the U.S. Secretary of State (since July 2011). She was previously a director of NYSE Euronext and U.S. 
Steel Corporation. 


Skills and Qualifications: 

+ Financial: Has numerous years of public company audit committee experience, including as a chair. 

+ Technology: Earned undergraduate and doctorate degrees in physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and is the president of a world- 
renowned technological research university (RPI). 


Energy/Government: Former Chairman and Commissioner of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 


16 2014 Proxy Statement 


PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 


Gary W. Loveman 


Age: 54 

Director since: 2007 

Committees: Audit 

Other public directorships: Caesars Entertainment Corporation and Coach, Inc. 


r. Loveman is Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Caesars Entertainment Corporation (formerly Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc.), a 
provider of branded gaming entertainment; he has held the position of President since 2001, Chief Executive Officer since 2003 and Chairman of the Board 
since 2005. He held various other executive positions at Caesars Entertainment Corporation from 1998 to 2001. He was Associate Professor of Business 
Administration at the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration from 1989 to 1998. 


Skills and Qualifications: 
International: Member of the President's Export Council, the principal national advisory committee on international trade. 


Financial: Earned a Ph.D. in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 


Marketing: Led several highly successful marketing initiatives at Caesars Entertainment and previously taught marketing-related courses. 


R. Brad Martin 


Age: 62 

Director since: 2011 

Committees: Audit, Information Technology Oversight 

Other public directorships: Chesapeake Energy Corporation and First Horizon National Corporation 


r. Martin is Chairman of RBM Venture Company, a private investment company, a position he has held since 2007, and is the former Interim President of 
he University of Memphis, a position he held from July 2013 until May 2014. Mr. Martin was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Saks Incorporated from 
1989 to 2006 and remained Chairman until 2007, when he retired. He was previously a director of Caesars Entertainment Corporation (formerly Harrah's 
Entertainment, Inc.), Dillards, Inc., Gaylord Entertainment Company, lululemon athletica inc. and Ruby Tuesday, Inc. 


Skills and Qualifications: 
Marketing: Gained valuable retail marketing experience and successfully applied his marketing expertise as the former CEO of Saks, a leading department 


store retailer. 
Energy: Member of the board of Chesapeake Energy Corporation and Pilot Travel Centers LLC. 


Government: Former Tennessee state representative. 


Joshua Cooper Ramo 


Age: 45 

Director since: 2011 

Committees: Audit, Information Technology Oversight 
Other public directorships: Starbucks Corporation 


r.Ramo is Vice Chairman of Kissinger Associates, Inc., a strategic advisory firm, a position he has held since 2011. He served as Managing Director of Kissinger 
Associates from 2006 to 2011. Prior to joining Kissinger Associates, he was Managing Partner of JL Thornton & Co., LLC, a consulting firm. Before that, he worked 
as a journalist and served as Senior Editor, Foreign Editor and then Assistant Managing Editor of TIME Magazine from 1995 to 2003. 


Skills and Qualifications: 
International: Has been a term member of the Council on Foreign Relations, Asia 21 Leaders Program, World Economic Forum's Young Global Leaders and 
Global Leaders of Tomorrow. He co-founded the U.S.—-China Young Leaders Forum in conjunction with the National Committee on U.S.—China Relations. 


Leadership: Vice Chairman of Kissinger Associates. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


17 


PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 


Susan C. Schwab 


Age: 59 

Director since: 2009 

Committees: Compensation, Information Technology Oversight 
Other public directorships: The Boeing Company and Caterpillar Inc. 


Ambassador Schwab is a Professor at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy, a position she has held since January 2009. She has also served as a strategic 
advisor to Mayer Brown LLP, a law firm, since March 2010. She served as U.S. Trade Representative from 2006 to January 2009 and as Deputy U.S. Trade Representative 
from 2005 to 2006. She was Vice Chancellor of the University System of Maryland and President and Chief Executive Officer of the University System of Maryland 
Foundation from 2004 to 2005. She was Dean of the University of Maryland School of Public Policy from 1995 to 2003. She was Director of Corporate Business 
Development of Motorola, Inc., an electronics manufacturer, from 1993 to 1995. She was Assistant Secretary of Commerce for the U.S. and Foreign Commercial 
Service from 1989 to 1993. She was previously a director of The Adams Express Company, Calpine Corporation and Petroleum & Resources Corporation. 


Skills and Qualifications: 
International/Government: Former U.S. Trade Representative and former Director-General of the U.S. and Foreign Commercial Service (Assistant Secretary 
of Commerce), the export promotion arm of the U.S. government. 


David P. Steiner 


Age: 54 

Director since: 2009 

Committees: Nominating & Governance (Chairman) 

Other public directorships: TE Connectivity Ltd. (formerly Tyco Electronics Ltd.) and Waste Management, Inc. 


Mr. Steiner is Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management, Inc., a provider of integrated waste management services, a position he has held since 2004. He 
was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Waste Management, Inc. from 2003 to 2004, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate 
Secretary of Waste Management, Inc. from 2001 to 2003, and Vice President and Deputy General Counsel of Waste Management, Inc. from 2000 to 2001. He 
was a partner at Phelps Dunbar L.L.P., a law firm, from 1990 to 2000. 


Skills and Qualifications: 

+ Transportation: CEO of Waste Management, which transports waste materials. 
Financial: Has an accounting degree from Louisiana State University and was CFO of Waste Management before becoming its CEO. 
Energy: CEO of Waste Management, which has taken an industry leadership role in converting waste to renewable energy. 


Paul S. Walsh 


Age: 59 

Director since: 1996 

Committees: Compensation, Nominating & Governance 

Other public directorships: Avanti Communications Group plc (Chairman), Compass Group PLC (Chairman), 
RM2 International S.A., Ontex Group NV and Unilever PLC 


Mr. Walsh is Chairman of the Board of Compass Group PLC, a food service and support services company, a position he has held since February 2014. Since July 
2013, Mr. Walsh has been an advisor to Diageo plc, a beverage company, where he served as Chief Executive Officer from 2000 to June 2013. He was Chairman, 
President and Chief Executive Officer of The Pillsbury Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Diageo plc, from 1996 to 2000, and Chief Executive Officer of 
The Pillsbury Company from 1992 to 1996. He was appointed as a Business Ambassador on the U.K. government's Business Ambassador Network in August 
2012. He was previously a director of Diageo plc and Centrica plc. 


Skills and Qualifications: 

nternational: Former CEO of a U.K.-based, large multinational corporation. 

Financial: Has held executive finance positions, including CFO of a major division, at a U.K.-based public company. 
arketing: Led a company that owes much of its growth and success to highly effective marketing of its brands. 

Government: Has held executive positions at companies where government interface is crucial. 


18 2014 Proxy Statement 


Summary of Director Experience, 
Qualifications, Attributes and Skills 
Transportation Industry Experience is a positive attribute as 


it greatly increases a director's understanding of our business 
operations and its management. 


Barksdale 


Edwardson 


PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 


Loveman 


International Experience is beneficial given our continued 
capitalization on increasing globalization and the resulting 


expansion of customer access to goods, services and information. 


Financial Expertise is important given our use of financial 
targets as measures of success and the importance of accurate 
financial reporting and robust internal auditing. 


Marketing Expertise is valuable because we emphasize 
promoting and protecting the FedEx brand, one of our most 
important assets. 


Technological Expertise is beneficial because attracting and 
retaining customers and competing effectively depend in part 
upon the sophistication and reliability of our technology. 


Energy Expertise is important as we are committed to 
protecting the environment and have initiatives underway to 
reduce our energy use and minimize our environmental impact. 


Government Experience is useful in our highly-regulated 
industry as we work constructively with governments around 
the world. 


Leadership Experience is critical because we want directors 
with the experience and confidence to capably advise our 
executive management team on a wide range of issues. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


19 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


Report of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors 


The Compensation Committee has reviewed and discussed 
with management the following Compensation Discussion 
and Analysis. Based on its review and discussions with 
management, the Compensation Committee recommended 
to the Board of Directors, and the Board approved, that the 
Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in this 
proxy statement and in FedEx’s Annual Report on Form 10-K 
for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2014. 


Compensation Committee Members 


Steven R. Loranger — Chairman 
Marvin R. Ellison 

Shirley Ann Jackson 

Susan C. Schwab 

Paul S. Walsh 


Compensation Discussion and Analysis 


In this section we discuss and analyze the compensation of our 
principal executive and financial officers and our three other 
most highly compensated executive officers (the “named 
executive officers”) for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2014. For 


Executive Summary 


In fiscal 2014, we experienced improved performance by all our 
transportation segments despite the significant negative net 
impact of fuel and unusually severe winter weather. Although 
our financial performance improved during 2014, results were 
below our aggressive business plan goals. We are continuing 
to focus on our strategic cost reduction programs, finding 
ways to improve efficiency and rationalize capacity, improving 
on our already high levels of service, and continuing to invest 
in critical, long-term projects as part of our global strategy to 
position the company for stronger growth. 


Consistent with our  pay-for-performance philosophy 
and reflecting FedEx's below-plan financial performance 
during fiscal 2014, the payouts under our annual incentive 
compensation (“AIC”) program were below target. Above- 
target payouts were earned in fiscal 2014 by all participants, 
including the named executive officers, under our long- 
term incentive compensation (“LTI") program, which is tied 
to financial performance over a three-year period (fiscal 


2012 through fiscal 2014 for th 
exceeded the earnings per sh 
target payout, as the compan 


e FY2012-FY2014 LTI plan). We 
are ("EPS") goal required for a 
y's performance in fiscal 2012 


and 2014 more than offset weaker than expected results in 


fiscal 2013. 


20 2014 Proxy Statement 


additional information regarding compensation of the named 
executive officers, see “— Summary Compensation Table” and 
other compensation-related tables and disclosure below. 


The following table details key compensation highlights of the 
last five fiscal years. 


Compensation Highlights 


+ AIC plan paid below target 
* FY2012-FY2014 LTI plan 
paid above target 


+ No AIC plan payout to 
Chairman, President and CEO 

- AIC plan paid below target to 
other named executive officers 

+ FY2011-FY2013 LTI plan paid 
at maximum 


+ AIC plan paid below target 
+ FY2010-FY2012 LTI plan paid 
at maximum 


+ AIC plan paid below target 

+ No FY2008-FY2010 LTI plan payout 

+ Annual base salary increases 
reinstated (suspended in FY2009) 

+ 401(k) match partially reinstated 


+ AIC plan paid below target 

+ No FY2009-FY2011 LTI 
plan payout 

* 401(k) match fully reinstated 
(suspended in FY2009) 


Philosophy. FedEx is consistently ranked among the world’s 
most admired and trusted employers and respected brands. 
Maintaining this reputation and continuing to position FedEx 
for future success requires high caliber talent to protect and 
grow the company in support of our mission of producing 
superior financial returns for our shareowners. We design our 
executive compensation program to provide a competitive 
and internally equitable compensation and benefits package 
that reflects individual and company performance, job 
complexity, and strategic value of the position while ensuring 
long-term retention and motivation. 


Each of the named executive officers is a longstanding member 
of our management, and our Chairman of the Board, President 
and Chief Executive Officer, Frederick W. Smith, founded the 
company and pioneered the express transportation industry 
over 40 years ago. As a result, our named executive officers 
are especially knowledgeable about our business and our 
industry and thus particularly valuable to the company and 
our shareowners. 


As with tenure, position and level of responsibility are important 
factors in the compensation of any FedEx employee, including 
our named executive officers. There are internal salary ranges 
for each level, and annual target bonus percentages, long- 


2013 Say-on-Pay Advisory Vote Outcome 


The Compensation Committee annually considers the results 
of the most recent advisory vote by shareowners to approve 
named executive officer compensation. In the 2013 advisory 
vote, 95.4% of the voted shares supported the compensation 
of FedEx’s named executive officers, and the Compensation 
Committee and the Board of Directors interpret this strong 
level of support as affirmation of the current design, 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


term bonus amounts, and the number of stock options and 
restricted shares awarded are all closely tied to management 
level and responsibilities. For instance, all FedEx Corporation 
executive vice presidents have the same salary range and 
annual target bonus percentages and receive the same long- 
term bonus and the same number of options and restricted 
shares in the annual grant. 


Our philosophy is to (i) closely align the compensation paid 
to our executives with the performance of the company on 
both a short-term and long-term basis, and (ii) set performance 
goals that do not promote excessive risk while supporting the 
company’s core long-term financial goals, which include: 


- Achieving a 10%+ operating margin; 

- Increasing EPS by 10% to 15% per year; 
- Growing profitable revenue; 

* Improving cash flow; and 


* Increasing returns, such as return on invested capital. 


Our executive compensation is, in large measure, highly 
variable and linked to the above goals and the performance of 
the FedEx stock price over time. 


purposes and direction of FedEx’s executive compensation 
programs. In its ongoing evaluation of FedEx’s executive 
compensation programs and practices, the Compensation 
Committee will continue to consider the results from future 
shareowner advisory votes to approve named executive officer 
compensation. 


Compensation Objectives and Design-Related Features 


We design our executive compensation program to further FedEx’s mission of producing superior financial returns for our 


shareowners by pursuing the following objectives: 


Objective 


Retain and attract highly qualified and effective 
executive officers. 


Generally 


Motivate executive officers to contribute to our future 
success and to build long-term shareowner value and 
reward them accordingly. 


Pay competitively. 


Link a significant part of compensation to 
FedEx's financial and stock price performance, 
especially long-term performance. 


How Pursued 
Specifically 
Use comparison survey data as a point of 
reference in evaluating target levels for total 
direct compensation, which includes both 
fixed and variable, at-risk components tied 
to stock price appreciation and short- and 
long-term financial performance. 


Weight executive compensation program 
in favor of incentive and equity-based 
compensation elements (rather than base 
salary), especially long-term incentive cash 
compensation and equity incentives in the 
form of stock options and restricted stock. 


Further align executive officer and shareowner 
interests. 


Encourage and facilitate long-term 
shareowner returns and significant ownership 
of FedEx stock by executives. 


Make annual equity-based grants; tie long-term 
cash compensation to growth in our EPS, 
which strongly correlates with long-term stock 
price appreciation; maintain a stock ownership 
goal for senior officers and encourage each 
officer to retain shares acquired upon stock 
option exercises until his or her goal is met. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


21 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


Commitment to Retain and Attract. FedEx is widely 
acknowledged as one of the world’s most admired and 
respected companies, and it is our people — our greatest 
asset — who have earned FedEx its strong reputation. Because 
FedEx operates a global enterprise in a highly challenging 
business environment, we compete for talented management 
with some of the largest companies in the world — in our 
industry and in others. Our global recognition and reputation 
for excellence in management and leadership make our 
people attractive targets for other companies, and our key 
employees are aggressively recruited. To prevent loss of our 
managerial talent, we seek to provide an overall compensation 
program that is competitive with all types of companies and 
continues to retain and attract outstanding people to conduct 
our business. Each element of compensation is intended to 
fulfill this important obligation. 


Market Referencing. Because retention is imperative and 
tenure and management level are determinative factors, we 
use external survey data solely as a market reference point to 
assess the competitiveness of our compensation programs. 
The target compensation levels of our named executive officers 
are not designed to correspond to a specific percentile of 
compensation in those surveys. Instead, our analysis considers 
multiple market reference points for the analyzed positions, 
rather than referring to a specific percentile. 


For the fiscal 2014 executive compensation review, we 
considered survey data published by two major consulting 
firms engaged by the company: Towers Watson and Aon 
Hewitt. Each consulting firm provided target compensation 
data for general industry companies (excluding financial 
services companies) in its respective database with annual 
revenues between $20 billion and $70 billion. A list of these 
companies is attached to this proxy statement as Appendix A. 


SHORT-TERM 
COMPENSATION 


Base Salary AIC 


Financial Objectives 
+ 
Individual Objectives 


* Includes related tax reimbursement payments. 


Other elements of compensation of the named executive 
officers (such as perquisites and retirement benefits) are not 
included in our TDC formula, consistent with our referenced 
survey information. Accordingly, these other elements are 
not referenced against survey data, and decisions as to these 
other elements do not influence decisions as to the elements 
of compensation that are included in the TDC formula. These 
other elements of compensation, however, are reviewed and 
approved by the Compensation Committee. 


While we may reference our target executive compensation 
levels against the survey group of companies, we do not 
compare our AIC and LTI financial performance goals against 


22 2014 Proxy Statement 


General industry is the appropriate comparison category 
because our executives are recruited by and from businesses 
outside of FedEx’s industry peer group. Moreover, our industry 
peer group does not provide a sufficient number of companies 
that are of a comparable size to FedEx. Using a robust data 
sample (134 companies for fiscal 2014) mitigates the impact of 
outliers, year-over-year volatility of compensation levels and the 
risk of selection bias, and increases the likelihood of comparing 
with companies with executive officer positions similar to 
ours. Because the annual revenues of these companies vary 
significantly, each consulting firm used regression analysis to 
allow for the inclusion of data from a large number of both 
larger and smaller companies. The data results provided by 
each firm were then averaged to arrive at blended market 
compensation data for general industry executives. 


When we evaluate the elements of compensation of our 
executive officers in light of the referenced survey data, we 
group the elements into two categories: 


+ Annual base salary plus target AIC payout (i.e, assuming 
achievement of all objectives), the sum of which we call total 
cash compensation (“TCC’). 


- TCC plus target LT] cash award plus long-term equity 
incentive grants (stock options and restricted stock) plus 
tax reimbursement payments on restricted stock awards, 
the sum of which we call total direct compensation (“TDC’). 
Long-term components of target TDC are valued consistent 
with the valuation methodology used in the referenced 
surveys. 


The TDC formula is illustrated below: 


LONG-TERM 
COMPENSATION 
LT Stock 
Cash Options 


Restricted 
Stock* 


3-Year 
Aggregate Annual Annual 
EPS Goal Grant Grant 


these companies or any other group of companies. Rather, as 
discussed below, our AIC and LTI financial performance goals 
are based upon our internal business objectives which, when 
set each year, represent aggressive but reasonably achievable 
goals. Accordingly, the relationship between our financial 
performance and the financial performance of the survey 
companies does not affect the relationship between our 
executive compensation and the executive compensation of 
that group in a given year. 


Pay for Performance. Our executive compensation program 
is intended not only to retain and attract highly qualified 
and effective managers, but also to motivate them to 


substantially contribute to FedEx’s future success for the long- 
term benefit of shareowners and appropriately reward them 
for doing so. Accordingly, we believe that there should be a 
strong relationship between pay and corporate performance 
(both financial results and stock price), and our executive 
compensation program reflects this belief. In particular, 
AIC payments, LT payments and stock options represent a 
significant portion of our executive compensation program, 
as shown by the chart below, and this variable compensation 
is “at risk” and directly dependent upon the achievement of 
pre-established corporate goals and stock price appreciation: 


» Fiscal 2014 AIC payouts were tied to meeting aggressive 
business plan goals for consolidated operating income, as 
well as individual performance objectives for all named 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


executive officers other than the Chairman of the Board, 
President and Chief Executive Officer. Consolidated 
operating income fell below the target objective for annual 
financial performance for fiscal 2014. As a result, the named 
executive officers received below-target AIC payouts. 


+ LTI payouts are tied to meeting aggregate EPS goals over a 
three-fiscal-year period. EPS growth in fiscal 2012 and 2014 
resulted in above-target payouts under the LT! program. 


+ The exercise price of stock options granted under our 
equity incentive plans is equal to the fair market value of our 
common stock on the date of grant, so the options will yield 
value to the executive only if the stock price appreciates. 


The following chart illustrates for each named executive officer the allocation of fiscal 2014 target TDC between base salary and 
incentive and equity-oriented compensation elements (the restricted stock value includes the related tax reimbursement payment): 


Fiscal 2014 Target TDC Components 


100% 


90% 


80% 


19% 


70% 


51% 


60% 


50% 


40% 


30% 


20% 


10% 
0% 


F.W.Smith A.B. Graf, Jr. D.J.Bronczek T.M.Glenn 


Performance-Based LTI 
B Performance-Based AIC 
w Stock Options 


We believe that long-term performance is the most important 
measure of our success, as we manage FedEx's operations 
and business for the long-term benefit of our shareowners. 
Accordingly, not only is our executive compensation program 
weighted towards variable, at-risk pay components, but we 
emphasize incentives that are dependent upon long-term 
corporate performance and stock price appreciation. These 


18% 


19% 


R.B. Carter 


B Restricted Stock 
@ Base Salary 


long-term incentives include LT| cash compensation and equity 
awards (stock options and restricted stock), which comprise a 
significant portion of an executive officer's total compensation. 
These incentives are designed to motivate and reward our 
executive officers for achieving long-term corporate financial 
performance goals and maximizing long-term shareowner 
value. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


23 


24 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


The following chart illustrates for each named executive officer the allocation of fiscal 2014 target TDC between long-term 
incentives — LTI, stock options and restricted stock, including the related tax reimbursement payment — and short-term 


components — base salary and AIC: 


Fiscal 2014 Long-Term vs. Short-Term Compensation 


100% 


90% 


80% 


70% 


60% 


50% 


40% 


30% 


20% 40% 


24% 
10% : 


0% 


F.W.Smith A.B. Graf, Jr. D.J.Bronczek T.M.Glenn 


Long-Term 
w Short-Term 


We include target AIC and LT! payouts (discounted to present 
value to be consistent with the valuation methodology used 
in the survey data) in the TCC and TDC formula, so the actual 
compensation paid out in a given year may vary widely from 
target levels because compensation earned under the AIC and 
LTI programs is variable and commensurate with the level of 
achievement of pre-established financial performance goals. 
When we fall short of our business objectives, payments 
under these variable programs decrease correspondingly. 
Conversely, when we achieve superior results, we reward our 
executives accordingly under the terms of these programs. 
As shown by the following chart, although fiscal 2014 AIC 


60% 64% 62% 64% 
76% 


36% 


38% 36% 


R.B. Carter 


payouts were below target levels, the actual fiscal 2014 TDC 
of our named executive officers was above target levels 
because we exceeded our pre-established EPS goal for a target 
payout under the FY2012-FY2014 LTI plan. In fiscal 2013, with 
the exception of Mr. FW. Smith, the actual TDC of our named 
executive officers was at or above target levels because we 
exceeded our pre-established EPS goal for a maximum payout 
under the FY2011-FY2013 LTI plan. Similarly, in fiscal 2012, the 
actual TDC of our named executive officers was above target 
levels because we substantially exceeded our pre-established 
EPS goal for a maximum payout under the FY2010-FY2012 
LTI plan. 


Actual TDC vs Target TDC” 


140% 


120% 
107% 


101% 


1 | 1 | 


100% 
80% 
60% 
40% 


20% 


m Fiscal 2014 
g Fiscal 2013 
Fiscal 2012 


101% | 
1 | 1 | J 


0% 


F.W. Smith A.B. Graf, Jr. 


D.J. Bronczek 


T.M. Glenn R.B. Carter 


(1) Actual TDC includes base salary, actual AIC and LTI payouts (if any), equity-based awards valued at grant date and tax reimbursement payments related to 


restricted stock awards. 
2014 Proxy Statement 


Align Management and Shareowner Interests. \We award 
stock options and restricted stock to create and maintain along- 
term economic stake in the company for the officers, thereby 
aligning their interests with the interests of our shareowners. 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


In addition, as discussed above, payout under our LTI program 
is dependent upon achievement of an aggregate EPS goal for 
a three-fiscal-year period. EPS was selected as the financial 
measure for the LTI plan because growth in our EPS strongly 
correlates to long-term stock price appreciation. 


The following graph illustrates the relationship between FedEx’s EPS growth and stock price appreciation (based on the fiscal year- 


end stock price and adjusted for stock splits) from 1978 to 2014: 


$160.00 $8.00 

$140.00 r $7.00 

+ $6.00 

$120.00 

+ $5.00 
$100.00 ‘4 
= 
g lL $4.00 4 
x 7) 
© $80.00 a 
6 a 
= L $3.00 £ 
n <¢ 
$60.00 a 

t $2.00 

$40.00 

+ $1.00 

$20.00 + $0.00 

$0.00 T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T i T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T -$1.00 

1978 1982 1986 1990 1994 1998 2002 2006 2010 2014 
— Share Price EPS 


Stock Ownership Goal for Senior Officers. \n order to encourage 
significant stock ownership by FedEx’s senior management, 
including the named executive officers, and to further align 
their interests with the interests of our shareowners, the Board 
of Directors has adopted a stock ownership goal for senior 
officers, which is included in FedEx's Corporate Governance 


Policy Against Hedging and Pledging Transactions. |In addition, 
we have adopted comprehensive and detailed policies (the 


FedEx Securities Manual) that 


including the named execut 


The Securities Manual includes informa 


periods and explains when 


regulate trading by our insiders, 
ive officers and Board members. 
tion regarding quiet 
transactions in FedEx stock are 


Guideli 


is that 
positio 


nes. With respec 
within four years 


t to our executive officers, the goal 
after being appointed to his or her 


n, each officer own FedEx shares valued at the following 


permi 


(or 


tted. The Securities 
transactions that are restricted. Specifical 
exchange-traded) opt 


an 


on 


ual also 


s, such 


sets 


forth certain types of 
y, (1) publicly traded 


— 


as puts, calls and other 


multiple of his or her annual base salary: 


« 5x forthe Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive 
Officer; and 
- 3x for the other executive officers. 


For purposes of meeting this goal, unvested restricted stock 
is counted, but unexercised stock options are not. Until the 
ownership goal is met, the officer is encouraged to retain “net 
profit shares” resulting from the exercise of stock options. Net 
profit shares are the shares remaining after payment of the 
option exercise price and taxes owed upon the exercise of 
options. As of August 4, 2014, each executive officer exceeded 
the stock ownership goal. 


derivative securities, (2) short sales, including “sales against the 
box," and (3) hedging or monetization transactions, such as zero- 
cost collars and forward sale contracts, are strictly prohibited. 
The Securities Manual also prohibits margin accounts and 
pledges; provided, however, that our Lead Independent 
Director and General Counsel, acting together, may grant an 
exception to the prohibition against holding FedEx securities 
in a margin account or pledging FedEx securities on a case- 
by-case basis to any member of the Board of Directors or the 
Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer if 
he or she clearly demonstrates the financial capacity to repay 
the loan without resort to the pledged securities. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


25 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


Based upon this criterion, such an exception has been granted 
with respect to the shares that are disclosed in this proxy 
statement as having been pledged as security by Frederick 
W. Smith, FedEx’s Chairman of the Board, President and Chief 
Executive Officer. See “Stock Ownership — Directors and 
Executive Officers.” With respect to the shares pledged by 
Mr. Smith: 


- None of the shares pledged by Mr. Smith were acquired 
through a FedEx equity compensation plan. 


+ The pledged shares are not used to shift or hedge any 
economic risk in owning FedEx shares. These shares 
collateralize loans used to fund outside personal business 
ventures and prior purchases of FedEx shares. If Mr. Smith 
had been unable to pledge these shares, he may have been 
forced to sell the shares in order to obtain the necessary 
funds. 


- The pledged shares represent 1.4% of FedEx’s outstanding 
shares as of August 4, 2014, and therefore, do not present any 
appreciable risk for investors or the company. 


+ Mr. Smith is FedEx's founder and one of the company’s 
largest shareowners. Mr. Smith has pledged only 21% of his 
total share ownership. The number of shares pledged by Mr. 
Smith has decreased by 626,000 during the last year and by 
1,186,000 over the last two years. Based on the fiscal year- 
end stock price ($144.16), the value of his pledged shares was 
approximately $594 million. Excluding the pledged shares, 
Mr. Smith still substantially exceeds our stock ownership 
goal. 


+ In accordance with our policy, Mr. Smith has established 
his financial capacity to repay the loan without resorting to 
the pledged shares. In the unlikely event such a sale were 
necessary, based on the 30-day average trading volume 
for FedEx shares as of August 4, 2014, it would take two 
days for the pledged shares to be sold in the open market. 
Furthermore, Mr. Smith’s unpledged share ownership is 
very substantial and would likely be able to prevent any 
margin call. 


We have an active shareowner engagement program in which 
we meet regularly with our largest shareowners. During these 
discussions, none of our largest shareowners have raised any 
concerns regarding Mr. Smith's pledged shares. 


26 2014 Proxy Statement 


No other FedEx executive officer or Board member currently 
holds FedEx securities that are pledged pursuant to a margin 
account, loan or otherwise. 


Restricted Stock Program. FedEx's restricted stock program 
has been in place for over 20 years and has encouraged FedEx 
executives to own and retain company stock. Although none 
of our largest shareowners have raised any concerns to us 
regarding our restricted stock program, during fiscal 2014 the 
Compensation Committee again reviewed our restricted stock 
program and, for all of the following reasons, determined that 
it continues to be appropriate for FedEx. 


By facilitating the ownership of FedEx shares by our 
executives, we strengthen the alignment of their interests 
with those of our investors. When granting restricted stock, 
FedEx first determines the total target value of the award and 
then approves the delivery of that value in two components: 
restricted shares and cash payment of taxes due. Therefore 
the total target value of the award is the same as it would 
be if there were no tax payments. In particular, because the 
amount of the tax payment is included in the calculation of 
the target value of the restricted stock award, the officers 
receive fewer shares in each award than they would in the 
absence of the tax payment: fewer by an amount equal in 
value to the tax payment. 


This methodology prevents the need for an officer to make a 
disposition of FedEx stock to cover the tax consequences of a 
restricted stock award and dilute his or her interest in FedEx. 
Conversely, absent the tax payment, the number of shares 
received in each award would be larger by an amount equal 
in value to the forgone tax payment, thereby having a dilutive 
effect on our shareowners’ equity interest in FedEx. While 
SEC disclosure rules require that these payments be included 
with tax reimbursement payments and reported as “other 
compensation” in the Summary Compensation Table, we do 
not believe these payments are “tax gross-ups’ in the traditional 
sense, since their value is fully reflected in the number of 
shares ultimately delivered to recipients. The following chart 
illustrates this principle, using the target value for the fiscal year 
2014 restricted stock awards granted to FedEx Corporation 
executive vice presidents (as in previous years, Mr. Smith did 
not receive a restricted stock award in fiscal 2014): 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


Target Value of Restricted Stock Award 


$1,000,000 


$800,000 


$600,000 


$400,000 


$200,000 


$0 


Current Practice 


B Target value of shares granted 


Not only is the value to the officer, as well as the cost to the 
company, generally the same as it would be otherwise, but this 
practice uses fewer shares of stock to arrive at the same benefit 
and has proved extremely successful in retaining executives 
and enabling them to retain their shares. During fiscal 2014, 
we broadened our restricted stock program to include certain 


10,061 
shares 


No Tax Reimbursement 


® Tax reimbursement amount 


lower-level officers and high-performing managers and 
individual contributors. We also make tax payments as part of 
restricted stock awards to these individuals. In sum, we strongly 
believe that our restricted stock program is effectively designed 
and is aligned with the best interests of our shareowners. 


Role of the Compensation Committee, its Compensation Consultant and the 
Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer 


Our Board of Directors is responsible for the compensation 
of our executive management. The purpose of the Board's 
Compensation Committee, which is composed solely of 
independent directors, is to help discharge this responsibility 
by, among other things: 


- Reviewing and discussing with management the factors 
underlying our compensation policies and decisions, 
including overall compensation objectives; 


» Reviewing and discussing with management the relationship 
between the company’s compensation policies and 
practices and the company’s risk management, including 
the extent to which those policies and practices create risks 
for the company; 


fom 


* Reviewing and approving all company goals an 
objectives (both financial and non-financial) relevant to th 
compensation of the Chairman of the Board, President an 
Chief Executive Officer; 


- Evaluating, together with the other independent directors, 
the performance of the Chairman of the Board, President and 
Chief Executive Officer in light of these goals and objectives 
and the quality and effectiveness of his leadership; 


Qo 


- Recommending to the Board for approval by the 
independent directors each element of the compensation 
of the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive 
Officer; 


- Reviewing the performance evaluations of all other 
members of executive management (the Chairman of the 
Board, President and Chief Executive Officer is responsible 
for the performance evaluations of the non-CEO executive 
officers); 


+ Reviewing and approving (and, if applicable, recommending 
to the Board for approval) each element of compensation, 
as well as the terms and conditions of employment, of these 
other members of executive management; 


» Granting awards under our equity compensation plans and 
overseeing the administration of all such plans; and 


» Reviewing the costs and structure of our key employee 
benefit and fringe-benefit plans and programs. 


The Compensation Committee may form and delegate 
authority to any subcommittee as it deems appropriate or 
advisable in accordance with the terms of its written charter. 
To date, however, the Committee has not formed or delegated 
authority to any subcommittee. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


27 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


In furtherance of the Compensation Committee's 
responsibility, the Committee has engaged Steven Hall 
& Partners (the “consultant”) to assist the Committee in 
evaluating FedEx's executive compensation, including 
during fiscal 2014. In connection with this engagement, the 
consultant reports directly and exclusively to the Committee. 
The consultant participates in Committee meetings, reviews 
Committee materials and provides advice to the Committee 
upon its request. For example, the consultant: updates the 
Committee on trends and issues in executive compensation 
and comments on the competitiveness and reasonableness 
of FedEx’s executive compensation program; assists the 
Committee in the development and review of FedEx’s AIC 
and LTI programs, including commenting on performance 
measures and the goal-setting process; and reviews and 
provides advice to the Committee for its consideration in 
reviewing compensation-related proxy statement disclosure, 
including this Compensation Discussion and Analysis, and on 
any new equity compensation plans or plan amendments 
proposed for adoption. 


Other than services provided to the Compensation 
Committee, the consultant does not perform any services for 
FedEx. Additionally, the consultant has robust policies and 
procedures in place to prevent conflicts of interest; the fees 
received by the consultant from FedEx in the consultant’s most 
recently completed fiscal year represented less than 5% of the 
consultant’s revenues; neither the consultant nor any adviser 
of the consultant had a business or personal relationship 
with any member of the Compensation Committee or any 
executive officer of FedEx during fiscal 2014; and no adviser 
of the consultant directly owns, or directly owned during 


fiscal 2014, any FedEx stock. Accordingly, the Compensation 
Committee has determined the consultant to be independent 
from the company and that no conflicts of interest exist 
related to the consultant's services provided to the Committee. 
Compensation Committee pre-approval is required for any 
services to be provided to the company by the Committee's 
independent compensation consultant. This ensures that the 
consultant maintains the highest level of independence from 
the company, in both appearance and fact. 


The Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive 
Officer, who attends most meetings of the Compensation 
Committee by invitation of the Committee's chairman, assists 
the Committee in determining the compensation of all other 
executive officers by, among other things: 


+ Approving any annual merit increases to the base salaries of 
the other executive officers within limits established by the 
Committee; 


+ Establishing annual individual performance objectives forthe 
other executive officers and evaluating their performance 
against such objectives (the Committee reviews these 
performance evaluations); and 


» Making recommendations, from time to time, for special 
stock option and restricted stock grants (eg., for motivational 
or retention purposes) to other executive officers. 


The other executive officers do not have a role in determining 
their own compensation, other than discussing their annual 
individual performance objectives and results achieved with 
the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. 


Compensation Elements and Fiscal 2014 Amounts 


Base Salary. Our primary objective with respect to the base 
salary levels of our executive officers is to provide sufficient 
fixed cash income to retain and attract these highly marketable 
executives in a competitive market for executive talent. The 
base salaries of our executive officers are reviewed and adjusted 
(if appropriate) at least annually to reflect, among other things, 
economic conditions, base salaries for comparable positions 
from the executive compensation survey data discussed 
above, the tenure of the officers, and the base salaries of the 
officers relative to one another, as well as the internal salary 
ranges for the officer's level. 


The named executive officers did not receive base salary 
increases for fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014 or fiscal 2013. As a result, the 
annual base salaries of our named executive officers remain 
as follows: 


28 2014 Proxy Statement 


Annual Base Salary 


Name ($) 
FW. Smith 1,266,960 
A.B. Graf, Jr. 902,784 
DJ. Bronczek 942,096 
T.M. Glenn 833,364 
R.B. Carter 762,960 


Cash Payments Under Annual Incentive Compensation 
Program. The primary objective of our AIC program is to 
motivate our people to achieve our annual financial goals and 
other business objectives and reward them accordingly. The 
program provides an annual cash bonus opportunity to our 
employees, including the named executive officers, at the 
conclusion of each fiscal year based upon the achievement of 
AIC performance objectives. 


For fiscal 2014, the company financial performance measure 
was consolidated operating income (the company financia 
performance measure in fiscal 2013 was consolidated pre- 
tax income). Operating income was chosen as the company 
financial performance metric to incentivize management 
to improve the company’s core business and to find ways to 
improve efficiency and rationalize capacity. Additionally, in 
prior years, a portion of the annual AIC payout for the non-CEO 
named executive officers was based on the achievement of 
individual performance objectives. For fiscal 2014, however, in 
order to simplify the structure of the AIC program and to further 
motivate these officers to achieve the company’s financia 
goals, the entire AIC payout for the non-CEO named executive 
officers was based on company financial performance, subject 
to downward adjustment by Mr. Smith based on the officer's 
achievement of individual performance objectives established 
at the beginning of the fiscal year. 


Target AIC payouts are established as a percentage of the 
executive officer's base salary (as of the end of the plan year). The 
fiscal 2014 AIC payout opportunity for each named executive 
officer ranged, on a sliding scale, from a minimum amount if 
the AIC program's pre-established consolidated operating 
income threshold was achieved up to a maximum amount if 
such financial performance goal was substantially exceeded. 
Payouts above target levels are based exclusively upon the 
company’s performance; accordingly, the executive officer 
receives above-target payouts only if the company exceeds 
the AIC target objective for annual financial performance. 


AIC objectives for company annual financial performance 
are typically based upon our business plan for the fiscal year, 
which is reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors and 
which reflects, among other things, the risks and opportunities 
identified in connection with our enterprise risk management 
process. Consistent with our long-term focus and in order to 
discourage unnecessary and excessive risk-taking, we measure 
performance against our business plan, rather than a fixed 
growth rate or an average of growth rates from prior years, to 
account for short-term economic and competitive conditions 
and anticipated strategic investments that may have adverse 
short-term profit implications. We address year-over-year 
improvement targets through our LTI plans, as discussed below. 


Ordinarily, the company’s business plan objective for the 
financial measure — consolidated operating income for fiscal 
2014 —- becomes the target objective for company performance 
under our AIC program. For the fiscal 2014 AIC program, 
however, in an effort to further motivate management to 
improve the company's performance, the AIC program's 
operating income target objective for company financial 
performance was higher than the business plan objective for 
operating income. Accordingly, above-plan performance was 
required to achieve target payouts under the fiscal 2014 AIC 
program. 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


The fiscal 2014 AIC target payouts for the named executive 
officers, as a percentage of base salary, were as follows: 


Target Payout 
Name (as a percentage of base salary) 
FW. Smith 130% 
A.B. Graf, Jr. 90% 
D.J. Bronczek 100% 
T.M. Glenn 90% 
R.B. Carter 90% 


The following table illustrates for our named executive officers 
the fiscal 2014 AIC payout opportunities (as a percentage of 
the target payout described above). The payout opportunity 
for each non-CEO named executive officer was subject to 
downward adjustment based on the officer’s achievement 
level of his fiscal 2014 individual performance objectives, as 
determined by Mr. Smith. 


Payout Opportunity 
(as a percentage of 


target payout) 

Target Maximum 

FedEx Corporation CEO 100% 300% 
FedEx Corporation EVPs 100% 240% 
FedEx Express CEO 100% 240% 


Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. 
Smith’s AIC payout is tied to the achievement of corporate 
objectives for company financial performance for the fiscal 
year. Mr. Smith's minimum AIC payout is zero. His target 
AIC payout is set as a percentage of his base salary, and his 
maximum AIC payout is set as a multiple of the target payout. 
The independent members of the Board of Directors, upon the 
recommendation of the Compensation Committee, approve 
these percentages. The actual AIC payout ranges, on a sliding 
scale, from the minimum to the maximum based upon the 
performance of the company against our company financial 
performance goals. 


In addition, the independent Board members, upon the 
recommendation of the Compensation Committee, may 
adjust this amount upward or downward based on their 
annual evaluation of Mr. Smith's performance, including the 
quality and effectiveness of his leadership, the execution of key 
strategic initiatives and the following corporate performance 
measures: 


+ FedEx’'s stock price performance relative to the Standard & 
Poor's 500 Composite Index, the Dow Jones Transportation 
Average, the Dow Jones Industrial Average and competitors; 


- FedEx’s stock price to earnings (P/E) ratio relative to the 
Standard & Poor's 500 Composite Index, the Dow Jones 
Industrial Average and competitors; 


+ FedEx’s market capitalization; 


- FedEx’s revenue growth and operating income growth 
(excluding certain unusual items) relative to competitors; 


2014 Proxy Statement 


29 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


- FedEx's free cash flow (excluding business acquisitions), - Guide and support key strategic initiatives; 
return on invested capital (excluding certain unusual items) 


; : » Enhance the FedEx customer experience and meet goals 
and weighted average cost of capital; 


related to internal metrics that measure customer satisfaction 
- Analyst coverage and ratings for FedEx’s stock; and service quality; 


+ FedEx's US. and international revenue market share; and + Recruit and develop executive talent and ensure successors 


+ FedEx’s reputation rankings by various publications and exist for all management positions; and 


surveys. + Implement and document good faith efforts designed to 
ensure inclusion of females and minorities in the pool of 
qualified applicants for open positions and promotional 
opportunities, and otherwise promote FedEx’s commitment 
to diversity, tolerance and inclusion in the workplace. 


=) 


None of these factors is given any particular weight i 
determining whether to adjust Mr. Smith’s bonus amount. 


Non-CEO Named Executive Officers. The fiscal 2014 AIC payout 
for the other named executive officers were tied to the 
achievement of corporate objectives for company financial 
performance for the fiscal year. The minimum AIC payout 
is zero. The target AIC payout is set as a percentage of the 
executive's base salary, and the maximum AIC payout is set as 
a multiple of the target payout. The actual AIC payout ranges, 
on a sliding scale, from the minimum to the maximum based 
upon the performance of the individual and the company 
against the objectives. 


Nn 


Individual performance objectives are designed to further the 
company's business objectives. Achievement of individua 
performance objectives is generally within each officer's 
control or scope of responsibility, and the objectives are 
intended to be achieved with an appropriate level of effort 
and effective leadership by the officer. The achievement 
level of each non-CEO named executive officer's individua 
performance objectives is based on Mr. Smith's evaluation 
at the conclusion of the fiscal year, which is reviewed by the 
For fiscal 2014, the entire AIC payout for the non-CEO Compensation Committee. 

named executive officers was based on company financial 
performance, provided that Mr. Smith had the discretion to 
adjust each officer's award amount downward based on the 
officer's achievement of individual performance objectives 
established at the beginning of the fiscal year. Individual 
performance objectives for the non-CEO named executive 
officers vary by management level and by operating segment 
and include (but are not limited to): 


Fiscal 2014 AIC Performance and Payouts. As noted above, 
the operating income target objective for the company 
performance factor under the fiscal 2014 AIC program 
was higher than the fiscal 2014 business plan objective for 
operating income. As a result, above-plan performance was 
required in order to achieve target payouts under the fiscal 
2014 AIC program. Expressed in terms of year-over-year 
improvement from a base amount (our fiscal 2013 adjusted 
+ Provide leadership to support the achievement of consolidated operating income), the consolidated operating 

financial goals; income threshold, target and maximum under our fiscal 2014 
AIC program were as follows: 


Base Year Amount - Fiscal 2013 
Adjusted Consolidated Operating Income * Threshold Target Maximum 


$3.211 billion 24% 214% 40.8% 


* 


Excludes $560 million of business realignment program costs and a $100 million noncash aircraft impairment charge. 


The following table presents the operating income threshold, target and maximum for the company performance factor under 
our fiscal 2014 AIC program and our actual consolidated operating income for fiscal 2014 (in millions): 


Company Performance Measure Threshold Target Maximum Actual 
Consolidated Operating Income $3,288 $3,903 $4,520 $3,446 


Based upon below-target company performance and, in the case of each non-CEO named executive officer, any downward 
adjustment resulting from Mr. Smith’s evaluation of that executive's achievement level for his individual performance objectives, 
payouts to the named executive officers under the fiscal 2014 AIC program were as follows (Compared to the target payout 
opportunities): 


Target AIC Payout Actual AIC Payout 


Name ($) ($) 
FEW. Smith 1,647,048 362,713 
A.B. Graf, Jr. 812,506 186,795 
DJ. Bronczek 942,096 205,188 
T.M. Glenn 750,028 152,466 
R.B. Carter 686,664 152,879 


30 2014 Proxy Statement 


The independent members of the Board of Directors, upon 
the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, 
exercised their discretion (as described above) to reduce the 
amount of Mr. Smith’s fiscal 2014 AIC payout from $398,586, 
the formulaic amount resulting solely from the achievement 
of company financial performance objectives under the fiscal 
2014 AIC program, to $362,713. This decision was based upon 
below-business-plan achievement for fiscal 2014 consolidated 
operating income. 


Fiscal 2015 AIC Plan Design. In order to further motivate and 
incentivize management to improve the company’s core 
financial performance, execute our profit improvement 
initiatives and find ways to improve efficiency and rationalize 
capacity, several changes have been made to the fiscal 2015 
AIC program. 


As in prior years, Mr. Smith’s fiscal 2015 AIC payout opportunity 
will be tied to the achievement of corporate objectives for 
company financial performance for the fiscal year, subject 
to adjustment by the independent members of the Board 
of Directors as described above. The fiscal 2015 AIC payout 
opportunity for Mr. Bronczek, the president and chief executive 
officer of FedEx Express, will be based on the same company 
financial performance measures, subject to adjustment by 
Mr. Smith based on Mr. Bronczek's achievement of individual 
performance objectives established at the beginning of the 
fiscal year. Mr. Smith will determine the achievement level 
of Mr. Bronczek’'s individual performance objectives at the 
conclusion of fiscal 2015. 


Mr. Smith’s and Mr. Bronczek’s fiscal 2015 AIC payout will be 
based on the following company financial performance 
measures (subject to adjustment as described above): 


+ FedEx Express Segment Operating Income: If the FedEx 
Express segment operating income target objective under 
the fiscal 2015 AIC program is met or exceeded, a payout 
of 50% of their respective target bonus will be earned. The 
FedEx Express segment operating income target objective 
under the fiscal 2015 AIC program is higher than the fiscal 
2015 business plan objective for FedEx Express segment 
operating income. 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


+ Consolidated Operating Income: If the FedEx Express 
segment operating income target objective under the 
fiscal 2015 AIC program is achieved, the balance of Mr. 
Smith’s and Mr. Bronczek’s AIC payout opportunity will 
be tied to the achievement of corporate objectives for 
consolidated operating income, subject to the maximum 
payout opportunity. The consolidated operating income 
target objective under the fiscal 2015 AIC program is higher 
than the fiscal 2015 business plan objective for consolidated 
operating income. 


With respect to Messrs. Graf, Glenn and Carter, 50% of 
their target AIC payout will be based on the achievement 
of individual performance objectives established at the 
beginning of the fiscal year for each executive. Mr. Smith 
will determine the achievement level of each executive's 
individual objectives at the conclusion of fiscal 2015. The 
payout opportunity relating to individual objectives will not 
be contingent upon achievement of any company financial 
performance objectives. 


The balance of Messrs. Graf's, Glenn's and Carter's AIC payout is 
contingent upon achievement of the FedEx Express segment 
operating income target objective under the fiscal 2015 AIC 
program. If such target objective is achieved, the balance of 
their AIC payout opportunity will be based on the achievement 
of corporate objectives for consolidated operating income (as 
described above), subject to the maximum payout opportunity. 


Cash Payments Under LTI Program. The primary objective of 
our LTI program is to motivate management to contribute to 
our future success and to build long-term shareowner value 
and reward them accordingly. The program provides a long- 
term cash payment opportunity to members of management, 
including the named executive officers, based upon 
achievement of aggregate EPS goals for the preceding three- 
fiscal-year period. The LT! plan design provides for payouts that 
correspond to specific EPS goals established by the Board of 
Directors. The EPS goals represent total growth in EPS (over a 
base year) for the three-year term of the LTI plan. The following 
chart illustrates the relationship between EPS growth and 
payout: 


2014 Proxy Statement 


31 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


LTI Payout Opportunity 
(as a percentage of target) 


150% 
125% 

100% 

75% 

50% 

25% 

0% 1 1 1 
5.0% 7.5% 10.0% 12.5% 15.0% 
Three-Year Average Annual EPS Growth 
As illustrated by the above chart, the LT! program provides for: this positive impact did not reflect core business performance, 


the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the 
Compensation Committee, approved the exclusion of the 
impact of the stock repurchase program (net of interest 
- Target payouts if the three-year average annual EPS growth expense on debt issued to fund a portion of the program) on 

rate is 12.5%, fiscal 2014 EPS for purposes of the LTI plans. As a result, adjusted 
- Above-target payouts if the growth rate is above 12.5%, up fiscal 2014 EPS of $6.68 will be used for purposes of the FY2012- 

toa maximum amount (equal to 150% of the target payouts) FY2014, FY2013-FY2015 and FY2014-FY2016 LTI plans, rather 

if the growth rate is 15% or higher; and than reported fiscal 2014 EPS of $6.75. This resulted in a 3% 
reduction in the FY2012-FY2014 LT plan payout. 


- No LTI payment unless the three-year average annual EPS 
growth rate is at least 5%; 


+ Below-target payouts if the growth rate is below 12.5%, down 
to a threshold amount (equal to 25% of the target payouts) if Fiscal 2014 LTI Performance and Payouts. For the FY2012-FY2014 
the growth rate is 5%. LT] plan, we used final fiscal 2011 EPS ($4.57) as the base- 

year number. The following table presents the aggregate 

Stock Repurchase Program-Related Adjustments to Fiscal 2014 EPS threshold (minimum), target and maximum under our 

EPS for Lil Plan Purposes. During fiscal 2014, the company FY2012-FY2014 LT| plan, which was established by the Board 


repurchased 36.8 million shares as part of our stock repurchase of Directors in 2011, and our adjusted aggregate EPS under the 
program. The reduction in outstanding shares resulting from plan for the three-year period ended May 31, 2014: 
the stock repurchase program increased fiscal 2014 EPS. Because ‘ , 


Performance Measure Threshold Target Maximum Actual 
FY2012-FY2014 Aggregate EPS $15.13 $17.43 $18.25 $18.00 * 


* 


Excludes $0.07 impact of the stock repurchase program on fiscal 2014 EPS, as described above. 


Based upon this above-target performance, LT! participants, including the named executive officers, earned above-target payouts 
under the FY2012-FY2014 LT| plan — as illustrated by the following table (compared to the threshold, target and maximum payout 
opportunities): 


Threshold LTI Payout Target LTI Payout Maximum LTI Payout Actual LTI Payout 


Name ($) ($) ($) ($) 
FEW. Smith 1,000,000 4,000,000 6,000,000 5,392,000 
A.B. Graf, Jr. 300,000 1,200,000 1,800,000 1,617,600 
D.J. Bronczek 375,000 1,500,000 2,250,000 2,022,000 
T.M. Glenn 300,000 1,200,000 1,800,000 1,617,600 
R.B. Carter 300,000 1,200,000 1,800,000 1,617,600 


32 2014 Proxy Statement 


LT] Payout Opportunities. The Board of Directors has established 
LTI plans for the three-fiscal-year periods 2013 through 2015 
and 2014 through 2016, providing cash payment opportunities 
upon the conclusion of fiscal 2015 and 2016, respectively, if 
certain EPS goals are achieved with respect to those periods. 
The FY2013-FY2015 LTI plan uses final fiscal 2012 EPS ($6.41) as 
the base-year number, and the FY2014-FY2016 plan uses final 
fiscal 2013 EPS ($4.91) as the base-year number. As described 
above, adjusted fiscal 2014 EPS of $6.68 will be used for 
purposes of these LTI plans, rather than reported fiscal 2014 EPS 


= 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


of $6.75. Fiscal 2015 and 2016 EPS will be adjusted following 
the end of those fiscal years using a similar methodology 
to exclude the impact of the stock repurchase program for 
purposes of the FY2013-FY2015 and FY2014-FY2016 LTI plans. 
The following table presents the aggregate EPS thresholds, 
targets and maximums under the FY2013-FY2015 and FY2014- 
FY2016 LT| plans and our progress toward these goals as of 
ay 31, 2014 (actual results exclude the $0.07 benefit of the 
stock repurchase program on fiscal 2014 EPS): 


Performance Aggregate EPS Aggregate EPS Aggregate EPS Actual Aggregate EPS 
Period Threshold Target Maximum as of May 31, 2014 
FY2013-FY2015 $21.22 $24.45 $25.60 $11.59 

(with one year remaining) 
FY2014-FY2016 $16.25 $18.72 $19.61 $6.68 


(with two years remaining) 


The following table sets forth the potential threshold, target and maximum payouts for the named executive officers under these 


two plans: 
Potential Future Payouts 
Performance Threshold Target Maximum 
Name Period ($) ($) ($) 
FW. Smith FY2013-FY2015 1,000,000 4,000,000 6,000,000 
FY2014-FY2016 1,000,000 4,000,000 6,000,000 
A.B. Graf, Jr. FY2013-FY2015 300,000 1,200,000 1,800,000 
FY2014-FY2016 300,000 200,000 800,000 
D.J. Bronczek FY2013-FY2015 375,000 1,500,000 2,250,000 
FY2014-FY2016 375,000 500,000 2,250,000 
T.M. Glenn FY2013-FY2015 300,000 1,200,000 1,800,000 
FY2014-FY2016 300,000 200,000 800,000 
R.B. Carter FY2013-FY2015 300,000 1,200,000 1,800,000 
FY2014-FY2016 300,000 200,000 800,000 
Modified Base-Year EPS for FY2015-FY2017 LTI Plan. Traditionally, Long-Term Equity Incentives — Stock Options and Restricted 
the base-year number over which the three-year average Stock. Our primary objective in providing long-term equity 


annual EPS growth rate goals are measured for an LTI plan 
is the final full-year EPS of the preceding fiscal year. For the 
FY2015-FY2017 LT| plan, however, the base-year year number 
will be $7.12, not reported fiscal 2014 EPS of $6.75. The Board 
of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation 
Committee, approved this increase in the base-year EPS in 
order to exclude the impact of the company's stock repurchase 
program on a prospective basis, thereby making subsequent 
adjustments of EPS in future years unnecessary for purposes of 
the FY2015-FY2017 LTI plan. Otherwise, the FY2015-FY2017 LT 
plan (including the three-year average annual EPS growth rate 
goals described above and the threshold, target and maximum 
payouts) for the named executive officers is consistent with the 
terms of the LT] program as described above. 


incentives to executive officers is to further align their interests 
with those of our shareowners by facilitating significant 
ownership of FedEx stock by the officers. This creates a direct 
link between their compensation and long-term shareowner 
return. 


Amount. Stock options and restricted stock are generally 
granted to executive officers on an annual basis. As discussed 
above, an officer's position and level of responsibility are the 
primary factors that determine the number of options and 
shares of restricted stock awarded to the officer in the annual 
grant. For instance, all FedEx Corporation executive vice 
presidents receive the same number of options and restricted 
shares in the annual grant. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


33 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


The number of stock options and restricted shares awarded 
at each management level can vary from year to year. In 
determining how many options and shares of restricted 
stock should be awarded at each level, the Compensation 
Committee may consider: 


+ Target TDC levels and referenced survey data — as discussed 
above, we include the total target value of all equity-based 
awards (including tax reimbursement payments for restricted 
stock awards) in our calculation of target TDC (using the same 
valuation methodology used in the market survey data), and 
in evaluating the fiscal 2014 target TDC levels for our named 
executive officers, we referred to multiple market reference 
points for comparable positions in the referenced surveys; 


- The total number of shares then available to be granted; and 


- Potential shareowner dilution. As of August 4, 2014, the 
total number of shares underlying options and shares of 
restricted stock outstanding or available for future grant 
under our equity compensation plans represented 10% of 
the sum of shares outstanding plus the shares underlying 
options outstanding or available for future grant plus shares 
of restricted stock available for future grant. 


Other factors that the Compensation Committee may 
consider, especially with respect to special grants outside of 
the annual-grant framework, include the promotion of an 
officer or the desire to retain a valued executive or recognize a 
particular officer's contributions. None of these factors is given 
any particular weight and the specific factors used may vary 
among individual executives. 


Timing. In selecting dates for awarding equity-based 
compensation, we do not consider, nor have we ever 
considered, the price of FedEx’s common stock or the timing 
of the release of material, non-public information about 
the company. Stock option and restricted stock awards are 
generally made to executive officers on an annual basis 
according to a pre-established schedule. 


When the Compensation Committee approves a special grant 
outside of the annual-grant framework, such grants are made 
at a regularly scheduled meeting and the grant date of the 
awards is the approval date or the next business day, if the 
meeting does not fall on a business day. If the grant is made in 


Name 

FW. Smith 
A.B. Graf, Jr. 
D.J. Bronczek 
T.M. Glenn 
R.B. Carter 


As in previous years, at the request of Mr. Smith and in light of 
his significant stock ownership, the Compensation Committee 
did not award him any restricted stock. Instead, his equity 
awards were in the form of stock options, which will yield value 
to him only if the stock price increases from the date of grant. 


34 2014 Proxy Statement 


connection with the promotion of an individual or the election 
of an officer, the grant date may be the effective date of the 
individual's promotion or the officer's election, if such effective 
date is after the approval date. 


Pricing. The exercise price of stock options granted under our 
equity incentive plans is equal to the fair market value of FedEx’s 
common stock on the date of grant. Under the terms of our 
equity incentive plans, the fair market value on the grant date 
is defined as the average of the high and low trading prices 
of FedEx’s stock on the New York Stock Exchange on that day. 
We believe this methodology is the most equitable method 
for determining the exercise price of our stock option awards 
given the intra-day price volatility often shown by our stock. 


Vesting. Stock options and restricted stock granted to executive 
officers generally vest ratably over four years beginning on the 
first anniversary of the grant date. This four-year vesting period 
is intended to further encourage the retention of the executive 
officers, since unvested stock options are forfeited upon 
termination of the officer's employment for any reason other 
than death or permanent disability and unvested restricted 
stock is forfeited upon termination of the officer's employment 
for any reason other than death, permanent disability or 
retirement. 


Tax Reimbursement Payments for Restricted Stock Awards. As 
discussed previously, FedEx pays the taxes resulting from a 
restricted stock award on behalf of the recipient. This prevents 
the need for the officer to sell a portion of a stock award to 
pay the corresponding tax obligation and thus encourages 
and facilitates FedEx stock ownership by our officers, thereby 
further aligning their interests with those of our shareowners. 
The total target value of the award is the same as it would be if 
there were no tax payments. 


Voting and Dividend Rights on Restricted Stock. Holders of 
restricted shares are entitled to vote and receive any dividends 
on such shares. The dividend rights are included in the 
computation of the value of the restricted stock award for 
purposes of determining the recipient's target TDC. 


Fiscal 2014 Awards. On June 3, 2013, the named executive 
officers were granted stock option and restricted stock awards 
as follows: 


Number of Stock Options Number of Shares of Restricted Stock 


203,/80 0 
24,620 5,720 
32,640 7,370 
24,620 5,720 
24,620 5,/20 


The target value of stock options and restricted stock awarded 
in fiscal 2014 to each named executive officer remained 
substantially the same compared to the fiscal 2013 target 
value (although the valuation methodology of stock options 
for accounting purposes and reporting in the Summary 
Compensation Table may yield a higher value). 


Perquisites, Tax Reimbursement Payments and Other 
Annual Compensation. FedEx’s named executive officers 
receive certain other annual compensation, including: 


+ certain perquisites, such as personal use of corporate 
aircraft (though officers are required to reimburse FedEx 
for substantially all of the incremental cost to FedEx of 
such usage), security services and equipment, tax return 
preparation and financial counseling services, umbrella 
insurance, physical examinations, travel privileges on certain 
airline partners, salary continuation benefits for short-term 
disability and supplemental long-term disability benefits; 


+ group variable universal life insurance and 401(k) company- 
matching contributions; and 


» tax reimbursement payments relating to restricted stock 
awards (as discussed above) and certain business-related use 
of corporate aircraft. 


We provide this other compensation to enhance the 
competitiveness of our executive compensation program 
and to increase the productivity (corporate aircraft travel, 
professional assistance with tax return preparation and 
financial planning), safety (security services and equipment 
and health (annual physical examinations) of our executives 
so they can focus on producing superior financial returns for 
our shareowners. Our tax reimbursement payments relating 
to restricted stock awards are a component of the total 
target value of the restricted stock grant. As a result, the total 
target value of the award is the same as it would be if there 
were no tax payments and there is no dilutive effect on our 
shareowners’ equity interest in FedEx. The Compensation 
Committee reviews and approves each of these elements of 
compensation, and all of the independent directors approve 
each element as it relates to Mr. Smith. The Committee also 
reviews and approves FedEx's policies and procedures 
regarding perquisites and other personal benefits and tax 
reimbursement payments, including: 


Kany) 


- FedEx's written policy setting forth guidelines and 
procedures regarding personal use of FedEx corporate 
aircraft; and 


+ FedEx’s executive security procedures. 


FedEx's executive security procedures, which prescribe the 
level of personal security to be provided to the Chairman of 
the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and other 
executive officers, are based on bona fide business-related 
security concerns and are an integral part of FedEx’s overall risk 
management and security program. These procedures have 
been assessed by an independent security consulting firm, 
and deemed necessary and appropriate for the protection 
of the officers and their families given the history of direct 
security threats against FedEx executives and the likelihood 
of additional threats against the officers. The security services 
and equipment provided to FedEx executive officers may 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


be viewed as conveying personal benefits to the executives 
and, as a result, their values must be reported in the Summary 
Compensation Table. 


With respect to Mr. Smith, consistent with FedEx’s executive 
security procedures, the Board of Directors requires him to use 
FedEx corporate aircraft for all travel, including personal travel. 
In addition, FedEx provides certain physical and personal 
security services for Mr. Smith, including on-site residential 
security at his primary residence. The Board of Directors believes 
that Mr. Smith's personal safety and security are of the utmost 
importance to FedEx and its shareowners and, therefore, 
the costs associated with such security are appropriate and 
necessary business expenses. 


Post-Employment Compensation. While none of FedEx’s 
named executive officers has an employment agreement, they 
are entitled to receive certain payments and benefits upon 
termination of employment or a change of control of FedEx, 
including: 


+ Retirement benefits under FedEx’s 401(k) and pension 
plans, including a tax-qualified, defined contribution 401(k 
retirement savings plan called the FedEx Corporation 
Retirement Savings Plan, a tax-qualified, defined benefit 
pension plan called the FedEx Corporation Employees’ 
Pension Plan, and a supplemental non-tax-qualified plan 
called the FedEx Corporation Retirement Parity Pension 
Plan — which is designed to provide to the executives 
the benefits that otherwise would be paid under the tax- 
qualified pension plan but for certain limits under United 
States tax laws; 


- Accelerated vesting of restricted stock upon the executive's 
retirement (at or after age 60), death or permanent disability 
or a change of control of FedEx; 


+ Accelerated vesting of stock options upon the executive's 
death or permanent disability or a change of control of 
FedEx; and 


+ Lump sum cash payments and post-employment insurance 
coverage under their Management Retention Agreements 
with FedEx (the “MRAs") upon a qualifying termination of 
the executive after a change of control of FedEx. The MRAs, 
as well as the accelerated vesting of equity awards upon 
a change of control of FedEx, are intended to secure the 
executives’ continued services in the event of any threat or 
occurrence of a change of control, which further aligns their 
interests with those of our shareowners when evaluating 
any such potential transaction. 


The Compensation Committee approves and recommends 
Board approval of all plans, agreements and arrangements that 
provide for these payments and benefits. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


35 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


Risks Arising from Compensation Policies and Practices 


anagement has conducted an in-depth risk assessment of 
FedEx’s compensation policies and practices and concluded 
that that they do not create risks that are reasonably likely 
to have a material adverse effect on the company. The 
Compensation Committee has reviewed and concurred 
with management's conclusion. The risk assessment process 
included, among other things, a review of (i) all key incentive 
compensation plans to ensure that they are aligned with our 
pay-for-performance philosophy and include performance 


Tax Deductibility of Compensation 


Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code limits the income 
tax deduction by FedEx for compensation paid to the Chief 
Executive Officer and the three other highest-paid executive 
officers (other than the Chief Financial Officer) to $1,000,000 per 
year, unless the compensation is “qualified performance-based 
compensation” or qualifies under certain other exceptions. 


- Mr. Smith's base salary is not designed to meet the 
requirements of Section 162(m) and, therefore, is subject to 
the $1,000,000 deductibility limit. 


» FedEx's equity compensation plans satisfy the requirements 
of Section 162(m) with respect to stock options, but not with 
respect to restricted stock awards. Accordingly, compensation 
recognized by the four highest-paid executive officers 
(excluding Mr. Graf) in connection with stock options is fully 
deductible, but compensation with respect to restricted 
stock awards is subject to the $1,000,000 deductibility limit. 


36 2014 Proxy Statement 


metrics that meet and support corporate goals, and (ii) the 
overall compensation mix to ensure an appropriate balance 
between fixed and variable pay components and between 
short-term and long-term incentives. The objective of the 
process was to identify any compensation plans and practices 
that may encourage employees to take unnecessary risks that 
could threaten the company. No such plans or practices were 
identified. 


> FedEx's AlCand LTI plans do not meet all of the conditions for 
qualification under Section 162(m). Compensation received 
by the four highest-paid executive officers (excluding Mr. 
Graf) under each of these plans is subject, therefore, to the 
$1,000,000 deductibility limit. 


We do not require all of our compensation programs to be 
fully deductible under Section 162(m) because doing so would 
restrict our discretion and flexibility in designing competitiv 
compensation programs to promote varying corporate goa 
We believe that our Board of Directors should be free to make 
compensation decisions to further and promote the best 
interests of our shareowners, rather than to qualify for corporat 
tax deductions. In fiscal 2014, we incurred approximately $5.4 
million of additional tax expense as a result of the Section 
162(m) deductibility limit for compensation paid to the Chief 
Executive Officer and the three other highest-paid executive 
officers (other than Mr. Graf). 


YO 


io) 


Summary Compensation Table 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


In this section we provide certain tabular and narrative information regarding the compensation of our principal executive and 
financial officers and our three other most highly compensated executive officers for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2014, and for 


each of the previous two fiscal years. 
Change in 
Pension 
Value and 
Nonqualified 
Non-Equity Deferred 
Stock Option Incentive Plan Compensation All Other 
Salary Bonus Awards Awards Compensation Earnings Compensation Total 

Name and Principal Position Year ($) ($) ($) (§) ($) 2 ($) 8) ($) ($) 

Frederick W. Smith 2014 1,266,960 0 0 6,710,435 5,754,713 = 419,869 14,151,977 
Chairman, President and 2013 1,266,960 0) 0 5,610,542 5,250,000 — 465,746 12,593,248 
Chief Executive Officer 2012 1,263,098 0 0 5,371,684 6,575,215 = 470,971 13,680,968 
Principal Executive Officer) 

Alan B. Graf, Jr. 2014 902,784 0 554,068 810,732 1,804,395 265,189 514,486 4,851,654 
Executive Vice President 2013 902,784 0 621,083 684,392 1,995,001 AI S53) 499,157 5,413,970 
and Chief Financial Officer 2012 900,240 0 623,735 655,217 2,546,693 1,154,269 489,091 6,369,245 
Principal Financial Officer) 

David J. Bronczek 2014 942,096 0 713,895 1,074,829 2,227,188 969,457 581,432 6,508,897 
President and Chief Executive 2013. 942,096 0 799,692 906,498 2,490,234 792,786 491,077 6,422,383 
Officer — FedEx Express 2012 939,441 0 802,836 867,827 3,014,794 1,490,346 544,541 7,659,785 

T. Michael Glenn 2014 833,364 0 554,068 810,732 1,770,066 738,829 532,819 5,239,878 
Executive Vice President, 2013 = 833,364 0 621,083 684,392 1,980,007 522,945 438,002 5,079,793 

arket Development and 2012 831,016 0 623,735 655,217 2,394,698 1,247,159 481,706 6,233,531 
Corporate Communications 

Robert B. Carter 2014 762,960 0 554,068 810,732 1,770,479 477,874 558,190 4,934,303 
Executive Vice President, 2013 762,960 0 621,083 684,392 1,989,519 282,935 409,256 4,750,145 
FedEx Information Services 2012 760,810 0 623,735 655,217 2,425,551 877,959 430,844 5,774,116 
and Chief Information Officer 

(1) The amounts reported in these columns reflect the aggregate grant date fair value of restricted stock and option awards granted to the named executive officer during each year, 
computed in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718. These amounts reflect our calculation of the value of these awards 
on the grant date and do not necessarily correspond to the actual value that may ultimately be realized by the officer. 

The fair value of restricted stock awards is equal to the fair market value of FedEx’s common stock (the average of the high and low prices of the stock on the New York Stock 
Exchange) on the date of grant multiplied by the number of shares awarded. 

For accounting purposes, we use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the grant date fair value of stock options. Assumptions used in the calculation of the amounts 
in the “Option Awards” column are included in note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2014, included in our Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for fiscal 2014. 

See the “Grants of Plan-Based Awards During Fiscal 2014” table for information regarding restricted stock and option awards to the named executive officers during fiscal 2014. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


37 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


(2) Reflects cash payouts, if any, under FedEx's fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 annual incentive compensation plans and FY12-FY14, FY11-FY13 and FY10-FY12 long-term incentive plans, 
as follows (for further discussion of the fiscal 2014 annual incentive compensation plan and the FY12-FY14 long-term incentive plan, see “—— Compensation Discussion and Analysis 
— Compensation Elements and Fiscal 2014 Amounts — Cash Payments Under Annual Incentive Compensation Program” and “— Cash Payments Under LTI Program” above): 


Total Non-Equity 
Incentive Plan 


AIC Payout LTI Payout Compensation 
Name Year ($) ($) ($) 
FW. Smith 2014 Boe) 3) 5,392,000 5,754,713 
2013 0 5,250,000 5,250,000 
2012 1,325,215 5,250,000 6,575,215 
A.B. Graf, Jr. 2014 186,795 1,617,600 1,804,395 
2013 195,001 1,800,000 1,995,001 
2012 746,693 1,800,000 2,546,693 
D.J. Bronczek 2014 205,188 2,022,000 2,227,188 
2013 240,234 2,250,000 2,490,234 
2012 764,794 2,250,000 3,014,794 
T.M. Glenn 2014 52,466 1,617,600 1,770,066 
2013 80,007 1,800,000 1,980,007 
2012 594,698 1,800,000 2,394,698 
R.B. Carter 2014 52,879 1,617,600 1,770,479 
2013 89,519 1,800,000 1,989,519 
2012 625,551 1,800,000 2,425,551 
(3) Reflects the actuarial increase in the present value of the named executive officer's benefits under the Pension Plan and the Parity Plan (as each such termis defined under “—Fiscal 
2014 Pension Benefits — Overview of Pension Plans”). The present value of the benefits under the Pension Plan and the Parity Plan for Mr. Smith decreased as follows: (a) between 
fiscal 2013 and 2014 — $343,627; (b) between fiscal 2012 and 2013 — $238,617; and (c) between fiscal 2011 and 2012 — $222,885. The amounts in the table and this footnote were 
determined using assumptions (€.g., for interest rates and mortality rates) consistent with those used in the audited consolidated financial statements included in our annual report 
on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2014. See “— Fiscal 2014 Pension Benefits” below. 
(4) Includes: 
+ the aggregate incremental cost to FedEx of providing perquisites and other personal benefits; 


+ group term life insurance premiums paid by FedEx; 


+ company-matching contribution 


“401(k) Plan’); and 
+ tax reimbursement 
award on behalf of 
that these paymen 


payments are “tax gross-ups” in 


Discussion and Ana 


38 2014 Proxy Statement 


payments rel 
he recipient 


5 under FedEx’s tax-qualified, defined contribution 401(k) retirement savings plan called the FedEx Corporation Retirement Savings Plan (the 


ating to restricted stock awards and certain business-related use of corporate aircraft. FedEx pays the taxes resulting from a restricted stock 
0 prevent the need for the officer to sell a portion of a stock award to pay the corresponding tax obligation. While SEC disclosure rules require 


5 be included with tax reimbursement payments and reported as “other compensation” in the Summary Compensation Table, we do not believe these 


the traditional sense, since their value is fully reflected in the number of shares ultimately delivered to recipients. See “— Compensation 


ysis — Com 


pensation Objectives and Design-Related Features — Restricted Stock Program” above. 


The following table shows the amounts included for each such item: 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


Perquisites Company 
and Other Life Contributions Tax 
Personal Insurance Under 401(k) Reimbursement 

Benefits Premiums Plan Payments Total 
Name Year ($)* ($) ($) ($)* ($) 
FW. Smith 2014 410,075 1,836 7,958 0) 419,869 
2013 454,690 2,13 8,925 0 465,746 

2012 460,141 2255 8,575 0 470,97 
A.B. Graf, Jr. 2014 81,955 3,060 8,925 420,546 514,486 
2013 133,409 2,934 6,583 356;23il 499,157 

2012 119,740 2,844 8,755 357,752 489,09 
D.J. Bronczek 2014 27,590 3,060 (3) E25) 541,857 581,432 
2013 22,877 2,934 6,591 458,675 491,077 

2012 65,878 2,844 8,752 467,067 544,54 
T.M. Glenn 2014 87,763 3,060 8,925 433,071 532,819 
2013 66,900 2,934 8,924 359,244 438,002 
2012 104,940 2,844 8,802 365,120 481,706 
R.B. Carter 2014 112,249 3,060 8,925 433,956 558,190 
2013 35,288 2,934 6,525 364,509 409,256 
2012 56,039 2,844 8,750 363,211 430,844 

* See the following two tables for additional details regarding the amounts included in each item. 

During fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, unless otherwise noted below, FedEx provided the following perquisites and other personal benefits to the named executive officers: 

+ Personal use of corporate aircraft: FedEx maintains a fleet of corporate aircraft that is used primarily for business travel by FedEx employees. FedEx has a written policy that 
sets forth guidelines and procedures regarding personal use of FedEx corporate aircraft. The policy requires officers to pay FedEx two times the cost of fuel for personal trips, plus 
applicable passenger ticket taxes and fees. These payments are intended to approximate the incremental cost to FedEx of personal corporate aircraft usage. 
> Mr. Smithis not required to pay FedEx for any travel on corporate aircraft by his family members or quests when they are accompanying him and he is on business travel. Mr. Smith is 


required to pay FedEx, however, for any personal travel by him and any personal travel by his family members or quests when they are accompanying hi 


or when t 


> Compensati 
company or 
incrementa 


based on 


« |naddition, 


ed 


> Fortaxpu 
heo 
value of a 
security p 
imputed i 
made dur 


Security services and equipment: Pursuant to FedEx’s execu 
re provided by third parties (e.g., out-of-town 


the services 


and other be 


executive security services p 
Reimbursement Payments a 


ere is no additional variab 
With the exception of Mr. Smith, th 
ircraft. The a 
icket taxes and fees. 


and equipment a 
and monitori 
$52,817 for fiscal 2014, 2013 
of hours of service provided 


ey are traveling w 


on is included in 
organization for 
cost to FedEx of 
e variable opera 


FedEx corporate aircraft are used pri 
is calculati 


on. 


when an aircraft 


ithout him. 


which the officer serves a 
all such travel exceeds t 
ing cost to FedEx, whic 
marily for busines 


is already flying to a des 


mount of s 


rposes, 


| such 
rocedures require 
ncome for his pers 
ing the last three 


ng), we have incl 


0 


e oper 


eamo 
includes the cost of fuel, aircraft maintenance, crew travel, landing fees, ramp fees and other smaller varia 


s travel, t do not change based on usage, such as pilots’ salaries and purchase and lease cos 


ating cost to FedEx associa 
¢ officer is still required 


the table above for personal corporate aircraf 
or or trustee) 


5 a direc 


= 


ination 


uch paymentis a pro rata 


income is imputed to each named executive 
ficer on a business trip for the primary purpose of assis 
lights during a calendar year over the aggrega 
Mr. Smith to use FedEx corpora 


onal travel and the perso 
iscal years). FedEx reimb 


uded in the table above 


and 2012, respectively. To 


the officer by each such 


nefit costs). For 


r. Smith, these amounts 


rovided to Mr. Smith, see 
d Other Annual Compensa 


portion (based 0 
offi 
ing the of 
te fuel 
e aircraft 
his fa 


her na 


nal travel o 
urses the o 


ive sec 


= 


he amoun 
he extent 
employee multip 


5 paid 


ixed costs tha 


or business p 
ed with the additi 
0 pay FedEx for suc 
the to 


cer for persona 
icer wi 
payments made by th 
or all 


rity procedures, the 
transportation a 
by FedEx for such 
he security services are provi 
ied by (b) the tota 


“— Compensatio 
ion” above. 


onal passenge 


al number of pa 


ith the business 


ravel, including 


ned executive officers for taxes relatin 


h personal travel if perso 


travel and “business-rela 


d other security-re 
services and equip 


| hourly compensa 
Otaled $267,351, $269,289 and $283,434 for fiscal 2014 


rs, and thus 


purpose of 


amed executive 


urposes and the officers or their family members or guests ride a 
no compensation is included in t 
5 on business travel occupy less tha 
ssengers) of the fuel cost for the flight, mu 


ed” travel (travel by the officer's spouse ora 
he trip) for the excess, if any, 0 
e officer during that calendar year. The Board o 
personal travel. Accordingly, FedEx reimb 
nily members and guests when they are accompanying him (no such reimburseme 
g to imputed income for business-rela 


officers are provided securi 
ated expenses and home security system ins 
ment. For Mr. Smith, these amounts to 


travel (which for this purpose includes travel to attend a board or stock 
bya named executive officer and his family members and guests 
t the officer paid FedEx for such travel. The incremental cost to FedEx of personal use of corporate aircraft is calcu 
ble costs. Because 
are excluded 


0 
e 


Direc 
urses Mr. S 


o the extent, ifany, 


gon the aircraft 
able above for 
50% of th 
tiplied by two, plus 


the Standard | 


5; 


a 


€ tld 


dult gues 
dustri 
and 
for taxes re 
it paymen 
vel. 


ors 
nith 


edtra 


ty services a 


nd equipment. 
allation, 


ded by FedEx employees, we have included amounts representing: (a) 


ion cost of the employee (including, among other thi 
2013 and 2012, respectively. For additional information regarding 
Discussion and Analysis — Compensation Elements and Fiscal 2014 An 


older meeting 0 
hat the aggregate 


or personal tra 
uch personal travel. 
available seats on 
applicable passen 


n and he is on personal travel 


an outside 


ated 


rom 


vel, 


ger 


who accompanies 
al Fare Level (S 
he FedEx execu 


FL) 
ve 
ating to any 
shave been 


o the extent 
naintenance 


aled $53,077, $70,948 and 


the number 


gs, pension 


nounts — Perquisites, Tax 


2014 Proxy Statement 


39 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


- Tax return preparation services: FedEx requires officers to have their income tax returns prepared by a qualified third party (other than our independent registered public 
accounting firm) and pays all reasonable and customary costs for such services. 


- Financial counseling services: FedEx reimburses officers for certain financial counseling services, subject to various caps. 
+ Umbrella insurance premiums: FedEx pays umbrella insurance premiums on behalf of officers. 


+ Physical examinations: FedEx pays for officers to have comprehensive annual physical examinations. 


+ Travel Privileges: FedEx provides certain executive officers and their spouses with travel privileges on certain airline partners. There is a small per-trip ticketing fee incurred by 
FedEx in connection with these privileges. 


- Supplemental Disability Benefits: FedEx provides executive officers with salary continuation benefits for short-term disability (100% of base salary for 28 weeks) and 
supplemental long-term disability benefits. Both benefit programs are self-funded (i.e., no premiums are paid to a third-party insurer) and thus there is no incremental cost to FedEx 
to provide these benefit programs. 


The following table shows the amounts included in the table (the aggregate incremental cost to FedEx) for each such item: 


Personal 
Use of Security Tax Return Financial Umbrella 
Corporate Services and Preparation Counseling Insurance 

Aircraft Equipment Services Services Premiums Other Total 

Name Year ($)® ($) ($) ($) ($) ($)® ($) 
FW. Smith 2014 0 320,428 Soo) 50,000 2,294 0 410,075 
2013 0 340,237 62,972 49,187 2,294 0 454,690 

2012 3,260 336,251 70,325 48,120 2,185 0 460,141 

A.B. Graf, Jr. 2014 59,530 2,640 0 7,491 2,294 0 81,955 
2013 74,982 23,820 8,355 23,114 2,294 844 133,409 

2012 98,842 1,115 4,733 1,946 2,185 919 119,740 

D.J. Bronczek 2014 0 4415 0) 20,449 2,294 432 27,590 
2013 0 3,291 7,100 0 2,294 192 22,877 

2012 14,724 7,269 14,200 27,500 2,185 0) 65,878 

T.M. Glenn 2014 16,177 40,544 16,800 6,900 2,294 5,048 87,763 
2013 16,831 46,264 0 700 2,294 811 66,900 

2012 31,187 40,069 29,150 1,500 2,185 849 104,940 

R.B. Carter 2014 5,249 85,411 0 19,175 2,294 120. 112,249 
2013 1,956 5,562 5,700 7,500 2,294 2,276 35,288 

2012 29,220 17,134 0 7,500 2,185 0 56,039 

(a) The amounts shown include the following amounts for use of corporate aircraft to attend board or stockholder meetings of outside companies or organizations for which the officers 


serve as directors: (i) fiscal 2013: Mr. Graf — $72,711; and (ii) fiscal 2012: Mr. Graf — $93,323; and Mr. Bronczek — $7,056. The entire amounts shown for Messrs. Carter and 
Glenn for fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, and Mr. Graf for fiscal 2014, represent use of corporate aircraft to attend board or stockholder meetings of outside companies or organizations 
for which the officers serve as directors. 


(b) For fiscal 2014 and 2013, includes physical examinations and/or ticketing fees for airline travel privileges. For fiscal 2012, includes physical examinations. 


40 2014 Proxy Statement 


The following table shows the tax reimbursement payments relating to the items listed, which are included in the table: 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


Business- 

Related 

Use of 

Restricted Corporate 
Stock Aircraft Total 
Name Year ($) ($) ($) 
FW. Smith 2014 0 0 0 
2013 0 0 0 
2012 0 0 0 
ABB. Graf, Jr. 2014 420,546 0 420,546 
2013 356,231 0 356,231 
2012 357,752 0 357,752 
D.J. Bronczek 2014 541,857 0 541,857 
2013 458,675 0 458,675 
2012 460,478 6,589 467,067 
T.M. Glenn 2014 420,546 12,525 433,071 
2013 356,231 3,013 359,244 
2012 357,/52 7,368 365,120 
R.B. Carter 2014 420,546 13,410 433,956 
2013 356,231 8,278 364,509 
2012 Boon 5,459 363,211 


Grants of Plan-Based Awards During Fiscal 2014 


The following table sets forth information regarding grants of plan-based awards made to the named executive officers during the 
fiscal year ended May 31, 2014: 


Estimated Future All Other Grant 
Payouts Under AllOther Option Awards: Exercise Date Fair 
Non-Equity Incentive Stock Awards: Numberof orBase Closing Value of 
Plan Awards Number of Securities Priceof Priceon Stockand 
Shares of Underlying Option Grant Option 
Type of Grant Approval Threshold Target Maximum Stock or Units Options Awards Date Awards 
Name Plan/Award Date Date ($) ($) ($) (#) (#)  ($/Sh) ($/Sh) ($) ?) 
FW. Smith Stock Option ° 06/03/2013 06/02/2013 203,780 96.865 9770 6,710,435 
FY14 AIC“ 0 1,647,048 4,941,144 
FY14-FY16 LTI © 1,000,000 4,000,000 6,000,000 
A.B. Graf, Jr. Restricted Stock® 06/03/2013 06/02/2013 5,720 554,068 
Stock Option © 06/03/2013 06/02/2013 24,620 96.865 97.70 810,732 
FY14 AIC ® 0 812,506 1,950,014 
FY14-FY16 LTI © 300,000 1,200,000 1,800,000 
DJ.Bronczek — Restricted Stock 06/03/2013 06/02/2013 7,370 713,895 
Stock Option © 06/03/2013 06/02/2013 32,640 96.865 97.70 1,074,829 
FY14 AIC ® 0 942,096 2,261,030 
FY14-FY16 LTI © 375,000 1,500,000 2,250,000 
T.M. Glenn Restricted Stock 06/03/2013 06/02/2013 5 720 554,068 
Stock Option © 06/03/2013 06/02/2013 24,620 96.865 97.70 810,732 
FY14 AIC ® 0 750,028 — 1,800,067 
FY14-FY16 LTI © 300,000 1,200,000 1,800,000 
R.B. Carter Restricted Stock ® 06/03/2013 06/02/2013 5,720 554,068 
Stock Option © 06/03/2013 06/02/2013 24,620 96.865 97.70 810,732 
FY14 AIC ® 0 686,664 = 1,647,994 
FY14-FY16 LT| © 300,000 1,200,000 1,800,000 


(1) The exercise price of the options is the fair market value of FedEx’s common stock (the average of the high and low prices of the stock on the New York Stock Exchange) on the grant date. 


2014 Proxy Statement 41 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


(2) Represents the grant date fair v 
regarding the assumptions used 


(3) Stock options granted to the na 


manner other than by will or the laws of descent 


Analysis — Compensation Elem 
(4) In July 2013, the Board of Direc 


fiscal 2014 and the achievemen 


alue of each equity-based award, computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718. See no 
these amounts. 


in the calculation o 


payment opportunity to the named executive officers at the conclusion of fisca 
ed at the beginning of fiscal 2014 for each officer other than 


of individual objec 


— Compensation Elements an 
payment amounts. 


(5) The Board 


with respe 


discussion of this plan. 


(6) Shares of restricted stock awarded to the named executive offi 
shares are entitled to vote such shares and receive any dividends paid on FedEx common stock. F 
(these tax reimbursement payments are included in the “All Ot 
Compensation Elements and Fiscal 2014 Amounts — Long-Term Equity Incentives — Stock Op 


42 2014 Proxy Statement 


determined following the conclusion o 
amounts, if the earnings-per-share goa 
payouts will be achieved. See “— Com 


of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Compe 
long-term cash payment opportunity to the named executive o 

ct to the three-fiscal-year period 2014 through 2016. 
the three-fiscal-year per 
achieved is less than targ 
pensation Discussion and 


an 


d Fiscal 2014 Amounts — Cas 


nsation Comm 


ors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, 
| 2014. Payment amounts were based upon the achievement of company fi 
r. Smith. See “— Compensation 


Payments Under Annual Incentive Compensation Program” above for further discussion of thi 


et, up to maximum amounts, if th 


ned executive officers generally vest ratably over four years beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date. The options may 
d distribution and may be exercised during the lifetime of the optionee on 
ents and Fiscal 2014 Amounts — Long-Term Equity Incentives — Stock Options and Restricted Stock” above for further discussio 


€ 1 to the Summary Compensation Table for information 


ot be transferred in any 


y by the optionee. See “— Compensation Discussion and 


S 
= 
“a 


ock option awards. 


established this annual performance cash compensation plan, which provided a cash 


ee, established this long-term performance cash compensa 
ficers at the conclusion of fiscal 2016 if FedEx achieves an aggregate earnings-per-share 
No amounts can be earned under the plan until 2016 because achieve 
iod. The estimated individual future payouts under the plan are set dol 


e plan goal is substantially exceeded. 


nent of the 


Analysis — Compensation Elements and Fiscal 2014 Amounts — Cash Payments 


cers generally vest ratably over 


er Compensation” column in the 


our years beginning on the first ann 


versary of 


edEx pays the taxes resulting from a restricted s 
Summary Compensation Table). See “— Compensation Disc 


ions and Restricted Stock” above for 


urther disc 


ion plan in 


af amounts rang 
here is no assurance tha 
Under LT| Program” above for further 


inancial performance goals for 


Discussion and Analysis 
5 plan, including actual 


June 2013. The plan provides a 
goal established by the Board 


earnings-per-share goal can only be 


he grant da 
ock award 0 


ing from threshold (minimum) 


t these estimated future 


e. Holders of restricted 
n behalf of the recipient 
ussion and Analysis — 


ussion of res 


ricted stock awards. 


Outstanding Equity Awards at End of Fiscal 2014 


The following table sets forth for each named executive officer certain information about unexercised stock options and unvested 
shares of restricted stock held at the end of the fiscal year ended May 31, 2014: 


Name 
FW. Smith 


A.B. Graf, Jr. 


D.J. Bronczek 


T.M. Glenn 


R.B. Carter 


Number of Securities 
Underlying 
Unexercised 
Options 

(#) 
Exercisable 
250,000 
200,000 
173,000 
204,150 
271,750 
146,625 
88,050 
49,668 
34,425 
33,155 
20,655 

5,000 

24,100 
34,580 
17,325 
10,740 

6,058 


45,900 
27,540 
27,540 
32,130 
46,555 
23,081 
14,225 

8,025 


34,425 
20,655 
20,655 

5,000 
24,100 
34,580 
IW 25 
10,740 

6,058 


14,508 
20,655 
20,655 

5,000 


Option Awards 


Number of Securities 
Underlying 
Unexercised 

Options 

(#) 

Unexercisable ® 


48,875 
88,050 ° 
149,007 ® 
203,780 ® 


5,775 ° 
10,740 ° 
18,177 
24,620 ® 


7,694 (10) 
14,225") 
24,075 “2) 
32,640 ") 


See 
10,740" 
18,1779 
24,620 "® 


Option 
Exercise 
Price 

($) 
89.7000 
110.0600 
114.7400 
90.8100 
56.3100 
78.1900 
89.1050 
85.2550 
96.8650 
89.7000 
110.0600 
114.7400 
84.6550 
90.8100 
56.3100 
78.1900 
89.1050 
85.2550 
96.8650 


89.7000 
110.0600 
114.7400 

90.8100 

56.3100 

78.1900 

89.1050 

85.2550 

96.8650 


89.7000 
110.0600 
114.7400 
103.3500 

90.8100 

56.3100 

78.1900 

89.1050 

85.2550 

96.8650 


89.7000 
110.0600 
114.7400 
103.3500 


Option 
Expiration 
Date 
06/01/2015 
06/01/2016 
07/09/2017 
06/02/2018 
06/08/2019 
06/07/2020 
06/06/2021 
06/04/2022 
06/03/2023 
06/01/2015 
06/01/2016 
07/09/2017 
01/14/2018 
06/02/2018 
06/08/2019 
06/07/2020 
06/06/2021 
06/04/2022 
06/03/2023 


06/01/2015 
06/01/2016 
07/09/2017 
06/02/2018 
06/08/2019 
06/07/2020 
06/06/2021 
06/04/2022 
06/03/2023 


06/01/2015 
06/01/2016 
07/09/2017 
09/24/2017 
06/02/2018 
06/08/2019 
06/07/2020 
06/06/2021 
06/04/2022 
06/03/2023 


06/01/2015 
06/01/2016 
07/09/2017 
09/24/2017 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


Stock Awards 

Number of 
Shares or Market Value of 
Units of Stock Shares or Units of 
That Have Stock That Have 
Not Vested Not Vested 
(#) (a) ($) (b) 
16,684 2,405,165 
21,482 3,096,845 
16,684"? 2,405,165 


2014 Proxy Statement 


43 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


Number of Securities 

Underlying 

Unexercised 

Options 

(#) 

Name Exercisable 
R.B. Carter 24,100 
34,580 

17,325 

10,740 

6,058 


Option Awards 


Number of Securities 
Underlying 
Unexercised 

Options 

(#) 

Unexercisable “ 


5,775 2) 
10,740 2” 
18,177) 
24,620 


Option 
Exercise 
Price 

($) 
90.8100 
56.3100 
78.1900 
89.1050 
85.2550 
96.8650 


Option 
Expiration 
Date 
06/02/2018 
06/08/2019 
06/07/2020 
06/06/2021 
06/04/2022 
06/03/2023 


(a) The following table sets forth the vesting dates of the options and restricted stock included in these columns: 


FW. Smith ) 


(4) 


D.J. Bronczek i) 


(13) 


(14) 


44 2014 Proxy Statement 


Date Number 


06/07/2014 48,875 
06/06/2014 44,025 
06/06/2015 44,025 
06/04/2014 49,669 
06/04/2015 49,669 
06/04/2016 49,669 
06/03/2014 50,945 
06/03/2015 50,945 
06/03/2016 50,945 
06/03/2017 50,945 
06/07/2014 7,694 
06/06/2014 7,112 
06/06/2015 Tans 
06/04/2014 8,025 
06/04/2015 8,025 
06/04/2016 8,025 
06/03/2014 8,160 
06/03/2015 8,160 
06/03/2016 8,160 
06/03/2017 8,160 
06/03/2014 1,842 
06/04/2014 2,345 
06/06/2014 Liye 
06/07/2014 2,572 
06/03/2015 1,843 
06/04/2015 2,345 
06/06/2015 2,253 
06/03/2016 1,842 
06/04/2016 2,345 
06/03/2017 1,843 


A.B. Graf, Jr. 


T. M. Glenn 


Stock Awards 
Number of 

Shares or Market Value of 
Units of Stock Shares or Units of 
That Have Stock That Have 
Not Vested Not Vested 
(#) (a) (S) (b) 
16,684 2,405,165 
Date Number 
© 06/07/2014 WTS 
© 06/06/2014 3,370 
06/06/2015 5,370 
06/04/2014 6,059 
06/04/2015 6,059 
06/04/2016 6,059 
® 06/03/2014 6,155 
06/03/2015 6,155 
06/03/2016 6,155 
06/03/2017 6,155 
® 06/03/2014 1430 
06/04/2014 821 
06/06/2014 750 
06/07/2014 2,000 
06/03/2015 1,430 
06/04/2015 821 
06/06/2015 750 
06/03/2016 430 
06/04/2016 822 
06/03/2017 430 
5) 06/07/2014 WTS 
6) 06/06/2014 5,370 
06/06/2015 33010) 
"7 06/04/2014 6,059 
06/04/2015 6,059 
06/04/2016 6,059 
8) 06/03/2014 6,155 
06/03/2015 6,155 
06/03/2016 6,155 
06/03/2017 6,155 
"06/03/2014 1,430 
06/04/2014 821 
06/06/2014 750 
06/07/2014 2,000 
06/03/2015 430 
06/04/2015 821 
06/06/2015 750 
06/03/2016 430 
06/04/2016 822 
06/03/2017 430 


R.B. Carter (20) 


(22) 


(23) 


(24) 


(b) Computed by multiplying the closing market price of FedEx’s common stock on 


Date 


06/07/20 
06/06/20 
06/06/20 
06/04/20 
06/04/20 
06/04/20 
06/03/20 
06/03/20 
06/03/20 
06/03/20 
06/03/20 
06/04/20 
06/06/20 
06/07/20 
06/03/20 
06/04/20 
06/06/20 
06/03/20 
06/04/20 
06/03/20 


4 


NK 


Pe) Boom 7) Re ee ee ee ©) Bae Romo) ee os 


Number 
afta 
5,370 
5,370 
6,059 
6,059 
6,059 
6,155 
6,155 
6,155 
6,155 

1,430 

821 

1,750 

2,000 

1,430 

821 

1,750 

430 

1,822 

430 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


ay 30, 2014 (which was $144.16) by the number of shares. 


Option Exercises and Stock Vested During Fiscal 2014 


The following table sets forth for each named executive officer certain information about stock options that were exercised and 


restricted stock that vested during the fiscal year ended May 31, 2014: 


Name 

FW. Smith 
A.B. Graf, Jr. 
D.J. Bronczek 
T.M. Glenn 
R.B. Carter 


Option Awards Stock Awards 
Number of Number of 
Shares Value Shares Value 
Acquired Realized Acquired Realized 
on Exercise on Exercise on Vesting on Vesting 
(#) ($)” (#) ($)? 
325,000 20,621,542 0 0 
38,250 2,515,037 8,905 874,135 
49,628 1,826,633 11,453 1,124,247 
38,250 2,545,687 8,905 874,135 
16,986 822,918 8,905 874,135 


(1) Ifthe shares were sold immediately upon exercise, the value realized on exercise of the option is the difference between the actual sales price and the exercise price of the option. 
Otherwise, the value realized is the difference between the fair market value of FedEx’s common stock (the average of the high and low prices of the stock on the New York Stock 


Exchange) on the date of exercise and the exercise price of the option. 


(2) Represents the fair market value of the shares on the vesting date. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


45 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


Fiscal 2014 Pension Benefits 


The following table sets forth for each named executive officer the present value of accumulated benefits at May 31, 2014, under 
FedEx's defined benefit pension plans. For information regarding benefits triggered by retirement under our stock option and 
restricted stock plans, see “— Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change of Control” below. 


Number Present Payments 

of Years Value of During 

Credited Accumulated Fiscal 

Service Benefit 2014 

Name Plan Name (#) ($) ($) 

FW. Smith FedEx Corporation Employees’ Pension Plan 42 1,429,059 0 

FedEx Corporation Retirement Parity Pension Plan 42 23,566,141 0) 

A.B. Graf, Jr. FedEx Corporation Employees’ Pension Plan 34 1,636,769 0 

FedEx Corporation Retirement Parity Pension Plan 34 11,889,907 0) 

DJ. Bronczek FedEx Corporation Employees’ Pension Plan 38 1,778,267 0 

FedEx Corporation Retirement Parity Pension Plan 38 15,242,168 0 

T.M. Glenn FedEx Corporation Employees’ Pension Plan 33 1,577,154 0 

FedEx Corporation Retirement Parity Pension Plan 33 10,339,905 0) 

R.B. Carter FedEx Corporation Employees’ Pension Plan 2 888,943 0 

FedEx Corporation Retirement Parity Pension Plan 2 5,071,039 0 

(1) These amounts were determined using assumptions (e.g., for interest rates and mortality rates) consistent with those used in the audited consolidated financial statements included 

in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2014. The benefits are expressed as lump sum amounts, even though the benefits using the traditional pension 

benefit formula under the Pension Plan (as defined below) are generally not payable as a lump sum distribution (only $1,000 or less may be distributed as a lump sum under the 
Pension Plan). The benefits using the Portable Pension Account formula under the Pension Plan may be paid as a lump sum. 

The present value of the Pension Plan traditional pension benefit is equal to the single life annuity payable at the normal retirement date (age 60), or June 1, 2014, ifthe officer is past 


normal retirement age, converted based on an interest rate of 4.596% and the RP2000 Combined No Collar Mortality Table projected to 2029 and discounted to May 31, 2014, using 
aninterest rate of 4.596%. The present value of the Parity Plan (as defined below) traditional pension benefit is equal to the single life annuity payable at the normal retirement age, 
or June 1, 2014, ifthe officer is past normal retirement age, converted based on an interest rate of 5% and the 1994 Group Annuity Reserving Table and discounted to May 31, 2014, 
using an interest rate of 4.596%. The present value of the Portable Pension Account (discussed below) is equal to the officer’s account balance at May 31, 2014, projected to the 
normal retirement date, if applicable, based on an interest rate of 4% (compounded quarterly) and discounted to May 31, 2014, using an interest rate of 4.596%. 


Overview of Pension Plans 


FedEx maintains a tax-qualified, defined benefit pension plan under the traditional pension benefit formula and continued 
called the FedEx Corporation Employees’ Pension Plan (the to receive the benefit of future compensation increases on 
“Pension Plan"). For fiscal 2014, the maximum compensation benefits accrued as of May 31, 2003. Eligible employees hired 
limit under a tax-qualified pension plan was $255,000. The after May 31,2003, accrue benefits exclusively under the 
Internal Revenue Code also limits the maximum annua Portable Pension Account. 

benefits that may be accrued under a tax-qualified, defined 
benefit pension plan. In order to provide 100% of the benefits 
that would otherwise be denied certain management-leve 
participants in the Pension Plan due to these limitations, 
FedEx also maintains a supplemental, non-tax-qualified plan 
called the FedEx Corporation Retirement Parity Pension Plan 
(the “Parity Plan”). Benefits under the Parity Plan are general, 
unsecured obligations of FedEx. 


Beginning June 1, 2008, eligible employees who participate 
in the Pension Plan and the Parity Plan, including the named 
executive officers, accrue all future pension benefits under 
the Portable Pension Account. In addition, benefits previously 
accrued under the Pension Plan and the Parity Plan using 
the traditional pension benefit formula were capped as of 
ay 31,2008, and those benefits will be payable beginning 
at retirement. Effective June 1, 2008, each participant in the 
Effective May 31,2003, FedEx amended the Pension Plan Pension Plan and the Parity Plan who was age 40 or older on 
and the Parity Plan to add a cash balance feature, which is that date and who has an accrued traditional pension benefit 
called the Portable Pension Account. Eligible employees as of will receive a transition compensation credit, as described in 
May 31, 2003, had the option to make a one-time election to more detail below. Employees who elected in 2003 to accrue 
accrue future pension benefits under either the cash balance future benefits under the Portable Pension Account will 
formula or the traditional pension benefit formula. In either continue to accrue benefits under that formula. 

case, employees retained all benefits previously accrued 


=a 


46 2014 Proxy Statement 


The named executive officers also participate in the 401(k) 
Plan. Beginning January 1,2008, the annual matching 
company contribution under the 401(k) Plan is a maximum of 
3.5% of eligible earnings. Effective February 1, 2009, however, 
401(k) company-matching contributions were suspended 
for all participants, including the named executive officers. 
We reinstated these contributions at 50% of previous 
levels (a maximum of 1.75% of eligible earnings) effective 
January 1, 2010, and fully restored these contributions effective 
January 1, 2011. 


In order to provide 100% of the benefits that would otherwise 
be limited due to certain limitations imposed by United 
States tax laws, effective June 1, 2008, Parity Plan participants, 
including the named executive officers, received additional 
Portable Pension Account compensation credits equal to 3.5% 


Traditional Pension Benefit 


Under the traditional pension benefit formula, the Pension 
Plan and the Parity Plan provide 2% of the average of the 
five calendar years (three calendar years for the Parity Plan) 
of highest earnings during employment multiplied by years 
of credited service for benefit accrual up to 25 years. Eligible 
compensation for the traditional pension benefit under the 
Pension Plan and the Parity Plan for the named executive 
officers includes salary and annual incentive compensation. 


Portable Pension Account 


The benefit under the Portable Pension Account is expressed 
as a notional cash balance account. For each plan year in which 
a participant is credited with a year of service, compensation 
credits are added based on the participant's age and years of 
service as of the end of the prior plan year and the participant's 
eligible compensation for the prior calendar year based on the 
following table: 


Age + Service on May 31 Compensation Credit 


Less than 55 5% 
55-64 6% 
65-74 7% 
75 or over 8% 


On May 31, 2013, the sum of age plus years of service for 
the named executive officers was as follows: Mr. Smith — 
109; Mr. Graf — 92; Mr. Bronczek — 95; Mr. Glenn — 89; and 
Mr. Carter — 73. Eligible compensation under the Portable 
Pension Account feature for the named executive officers 
includes salary and annual incentive compensation. Messrs. 
Smith, Graf and Bronczek elected the Portable Pension 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


of any eligible earnings above the maximum compensation 
limit for tax-qualified plans. Effective June 1, 2009, however, 
the additional compensation credit under the Parity Plan was 
suspended for all participants, including the named executive 
officers. We reinstated 50% of the additional Portable Pension 
Account compensation credit benefit effective June 1, 2010, 
and fully reinstated the benefit effective June 1, 2011 (such full 
credit was made as of May 31, 2012). 


Normal retirement age for the majority of participants, including 
the named executive officers, under the Pension Plan and the 
Parity Plan is age 60. The traditional pension benefit under the 
Pension Plan for a participant who retires between the ages of 
55 and 60 will be reduced by 3% for each year the participant 
receives his or her benefit prior to age 60. 


A named executive officer's capped accrued traditional 
pension benefit was calculated using his years of credited 
service as of either May 31, 2003 or May 31, 2008, depending 
on whether he chose to accrue future benefits under the cash 
balance formula or the traditional pension benefit formula in 
2003, and his eligible earnings history as of May 31, 2008. 


Account feature on June 1, 2003. Messrs. Glenn and Carter 
began accruing benefits under the Portable Pension Account 
on June 1, 2008. 


Transition compensation credits are an additional 
compensation credit percentage to be granted to participant 
in the Pension Plan and the Parity Plan who were age 40 or 
older on June 1, 2008, and who have an accrued benefit under 
the traditional pension benefit formula. For each plan year in 
which an eligible participant is credited with a year of service, 
transition compensation credits will be added based on the 
participant's age and years of service as of the end of the prior 
plan year and the participant's eligible compensation for the 
prior calendar year based on the following table: 


Wn 


Age + Service on May 31 Transition Compensation Credit * 


Less than 55 2% 
55-64 3% 
65-74 4% 
75 or over 5% 


* 


For years of credited service over 25, transition compensation credits are 2% per year. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


47 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


An eligible participant will receive transition compensation 
credits for five years (through May 31, 2013) or until he or she has 
25 years of credited service, whichever is longer. For participants 
with 25 or more years of service, transition compensation 
credits are 2% per year and ceased as of May 31, 2013. An eligible 
participant's first transition compensation credit was added to 
his or her Portable Pension Account as of May 31, 2009. 


Interest credits are added to a participant’s Portable Pension 
Account benefit as of the end of each fiscal quarter (August 31, 
November 30, February 28 and May 31) after a participant 
accrues his or her first compensation credit. The May 31 interest 
credit is added prior to the May 31 compensation credit or 
transition compensation credit (or additional compensation 
credit under the Parity Plan). Interest credits are based on the 


Lump Sum Distribution 


Upon a participant's retirement, the vested traditional pension 
benefit under the Pension Plan is payable as a monthly 
annuity. Upon a participant's retirement or other termination 
of employment, an amount equal to the vested Portable 
Pension Account notional balance under the Pension Plan is 
payable to the participant in the form of a lump sum payment 
or an annuity. 


All Parity Plan benefits are paid asa single lump sum distribut 
as follows: 


on 


Portable Pension Account notional balance and a quarterly 
interest-crediting rate, which is equal to the greater of (a) 1/4 
of the one-year Treasury constant maturities rate for April of 
the preceding plan year plus 0.25% and (b) 1% (1/4 of 4%). The 
quarterly interest crediting rate, when compounded quarterly, 
cannot produce an annual rate greater than the average 30- 
year Treasury rate for April of the preceding plan year (or, if 
larger, such other rate as may be required for certain tax law 
purposes). In no event, however, will the quarterly interest 
crediting rate be less than 0.765%. Interest credits will continue 
to be added until the last day of the month before plan benefits 
are distributed. The quarterly interest-crediting rate for the 
plan year ended May 31, 2013, was 1%. The quarterly interest- 
crediting rate for the plan year ended May 31, 2014, was 1%. 


- For the portion of the benefit accrued under the Portable 
Pension Account formula, the lump sum benefit will be paid 
six months following the date of the participant's termination 
of employment; and 


- For the portion of the benefit accrued under the traditional 
pension benefit formula, the lump sum benefit will be 
paid the later of the date the participant turns age 55 or six 
months following the date of the participant's termination 
of employment. 


Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change of Control 


This section provides information regarding payments and 
benefits to the named executive officers that would be 
triggered by termination of the officer's employment (including 
resignation, or voluntary termination; severance, or involuntary 
termination; and retirement) or a change of control of FedEx. 


Each of the named executive officers is an at-will employee and, 
as such, does not have an employment contract. In addition, if 
the officer’s employment terminates for any reason other than 


retirement, death or permanent disability, any unvested stock 
options are automatically terminated and any unvested shares 
of restricted stock are automatically forfeited. Accordingly, 
there are no payments or benefits that are triggered by any 
termination event (including resignation and severance) other 
than retirement, death or permanent disability, or in connection 
with a change of control of FedEx. 


Benefits Triggered by Retirement, Death or Permanent Disability — Stock Option and 


Restricted Stock Plans 


Retirement. When an employee retires: 


+ if retirement occurs at or after age 60, all restrictions 
applicable to the restricted shares held by the employee 
lapse on the date of retirement; 


48 2014 Proxy Statement 


- if retirement occurs at or after age 55, but before age 60, 
the restrictions applicable to restricted shares held by the 
employee continue until the earlier of the specified expiration 
of the restriction period, the employee's permanent disability 
or the employee's death; and 


+ all of the employee's unvested stock options terminate. 


For information regarding retirement benefits under our 
pension plans, see “— Fiscal 2014 Pension Benefits” above. 


Death or Permanent Disability. When an employee dies or 
becomes permanently disabled: 


- all restrictions applicable to the restricted shares held by the 
employee immediately lapse; and 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


- all of the employee's unvested stock options immediately 
vest. 


The following table quantifies for each named executive officer 
the value of his unvested restricted shares and stock options, 
the vesting of which would be accelerated upon death or 
permanent disability (assuming the officer died or became 
permanently disabled on May 31, 2014): 


Benefits Triggered by Death or Permanent Disability 


Name 

FW. Smith 
A.B. Graf, Jr. 
D.J. Bronczek 
T.M. Glenn 
R.B. Carter 


Value of 
Unvested Value of 
Restricted Unvested 
Shares Stock Options Total 
($)® ($) 2 ($) 
0 26,486,909 26,486,909 
2,405,165 3,207,387 5,612,552 
3,096,845 4,252,577 7,349,422 
2,405,165 3,207,387 5,612,552 
2,405,165 S207 387 5,612,552 


(1) Computed by multiplying the closing market price per share of FedEx’s common stock on May 30, 2014 (which was $144.16) by the number of unvested shares of restricted stock 


held by the officer as of May 31, 2014. 


(2) Represents the difference between the closing market price per share of FedEx’s common stock on May 30, 2014 (which was $144.16) and the exercise price of each unvested option 


held by the officer as of May 31, 2014. 


In addition, FedEx provides each named executive officer with: 


+ $1,500,000 of group term life insurance coverage; 


* $500,000 of business travel accident insurance coverage for 
death or certain injuries suffered as a result of an accident 
while traveling on company business; and 


- Asupplementallong-term disability program, with amonthly 
benefit equal to 60% of the officer's basic monthly earnings 
(provided the officer continues to meet the definition of 
disability, these benefits generally continue until age 65). 


Benefits Triggered by Change of Control or Termination after Change of Control — 
Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plans and Management Retention Agreements 


Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plans. Our stock option 
plans provide that, in the event of a change of control (as 
defined in the plans), each holder of an unexpired option under 
any of the plans has the right to exercise such option without 
regard to the date such option would first be exercisable. 
Except with respect to stock options granted under FedEx’s 
2010 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan, this right continues, with 
respect to holders whose employment with FedEx terminates 
following a change of control, for a period of twelve months 
after such termination or until the option’s expiration date, 
whichever is sooner. 


Our restricted stock plans provide that, in the event of a change 
of control (as defined in the plans), depending on the change of 
control event, either (i) the restricted shares will be canceled and 
FedEx shall make a cash payment to each holder in an amount 


equal to the product of the highest price per share received 
by the holders of FedEx’s common stock in connection with 
the change of control multiplied by the number of restricted 
shares held or (ii) the restrictions applicable to any such shares 
will immediately lapse. 


Under FedEx’s 2010 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan, our 
Compensation Committee may exercise its discretion to 
provide for a treatment different than described above with 
respect to any particular stock option or restricted stock award, 
as set forth in the related award agreement. To date, such 
discretion has not been exercised. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


49 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


The following table quantifies for each named executive officer the value of his unvested restricted shares and stock options, the 
vesting of which would be accelerated upon a change of control (assuming that the change of control occurred on May 31, 2014, 
and that the highest price per share received by FedEx’s stockholders in connection with the change of control was the closing 


market price on May 30, 2014, which was $144.16): 


Benefits Triggered by Change of Control “ 


Name 

FW. Smith 
A.B. Graf, Jr. 
D.J. Bronczek 
T.M. Glenn 
R.B. Carter 


Value of 
Unvested Value of 
Restricted Unvested 
Shares Stock Options Total 
($)?) ($) ©) ($) 
0 26,486,909 26,486,909 
2,405,165 3,207,387 5,612,552 
3,096,845 4,252,577 7,349,422 
2,405,165 3,207,387 5,612,552 
2,405,165 3,207,387 HOIZSS2 


(1) As discussed below, the officer is also entitled under his MRA (as defined below) to a two-year employment agreement upon a change of control and certain guaranteed 


compensation and benefits during the term of the two-year employment period. 


(2) Computed by multiplying the closing market price per share of FedEx’s common stock on May 30, 2014 (which was $144.16) by the number of unvested shares of restricted stock 


held by the officer as of May 31, 2014. 


(3) Represents the difference between the closing market price per share of FedEx’s common stock on May 30, 2014 (which was $144.16) and the exercise price of each unvested option 


held by the officer as of May 31, 2014. 


Management Retention Agreements. FedEx has entered into 
Management Retention Agreements (“MRAs") with each of its 
executive officers, including the named executive officers. The 
purpose of the MRAs is to secure the executives’ continued 
services in the event of any threat or occurrence of a change 
of control (as defined in the MRAs; such term has the same 
meaning as used in FedEx's equity compensation plans). The 
terms and conditions of the MRAs with the named executive 
officers are summarized below. 


Term. Each MRA renews annually for consecutive one-year 
terms, unless FedEx gives at least thirty days’ but not more 
than ninety days’, prior notice that the agreement will not 
be extended. The non-extension notice may not be given 
at any time when the Board of Directors has knowledge that 
any person has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a 
change of control of FedEx. 


Employment Period. Upon a change of control, the MRA 
immediately establishes a two-year employment agreement 
with the executive officer. During the employment period, the 
officer's position (including status, offices, titles and reporting 
relationships), authority, duties and responsibilities may not be 
materially diminished. 


Compensation. During the two-year employment period, the 
executive officer receives base salary (no less than his or her 
highest base salary over the twelve-month period prior to 
the change of control) and is guaranteed the same annual 
incentive compensation opportunities as in effect during the 
90-day period immediately prior to the change of control. The 
executive officer also receives incentive (including long-term 
performance bonus) and retirement plan benefits, expense 
reimbursement, fringe benefits, office and staff support, 


50 2014 Proxy Statement 


welfare plan benefits and vacation benefits. These benefits 
must be no less than the benefits the officer had during the 
90-day period immediately prior to the change of control. 


Termination. The MRA terminates immediately upon the 
executive officer's death, voluntary termination or retirement. 
FedEx may terminate the MRA for disability, as determined 
in accordance with the procedures under FedEx’s long-term 
disability benefits plan. Once disability is established, he or 
she receives 180 days’ prior notice of termination. During the 
employment period, FedEx also may terminate the officer's 
employment for “cause” (which includes any act of dishonesty 
by the officer intended to result in substantial personal 
enrichment, the conviction of the officer of a felony and certain 
material violations by the officer of his or her obligations under 
the MRA). 


Benefits for Qualifying Termination. A “qualifying termination” is 
a termination of the executive's employment by FedEx other 
than for cause, disability or death or by the officer for “good 
reason” (principally relating to a material diminution in the 
officer's authority, duties or responsibilities or a material failure 
by FedEx to compensate the officer as provided in the MRA). 


In the event of a qualifying termination, the executive officer 
will receive a lump sum cash payment equal to two times his 
or her base salary (the highest annual rate in effect during the 
twelve-month period prior to the date of termination) plus two 
times target annual incentive compensation. The payments 
will be made to the officer on the date that is six months 
after his or her date of termination (or, if earlier than the end 
of such six-month period, within 30 days following the date 


= 


of the executive's death). In addition, the executive officer will 
receive 18 months of continued coverage of medical, dental 
and vision benefits. 


An executive officer's benefits under the MRA will be reduced 
to the largest amount that would result in none of the MRA 
payments being subject to any excise tax. If the Internal 
Revenue Service otherwise determines that any MRA benefits 
are subject to excise taxes, the executive officer is required to 
repay FedEx the minimum amount necessary so that no excise 
taxes are payable. 


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 


In exchange for these benefits, the executive officer has 
agreed that, for the one-year period following his or her 
termination, he or she will not own, manage, operate, control 
or be employed by any enterprise that competes with FedEx 
or any of its affiliates. 


The following table quantifies for each named executive 
officer the payments and benefits under his MRA triggered by 
a qualifying termination of the officer immediately following 
a change of control (assuming that the change of control and 
qualifying termination occurred on May 31, 2014, and that the 
highest price per share received by FedEx’'s stockholders in 
connection with the change of control was the closing market 
price of FedEx’s common stock on May 30, 2014, which was 
$144.16): 


Payments and Benefits Triggered by Qualifying Termination after Change of Control 


Name 

FW. Smith 
A.B. Graf, Jr. 
D.J. Bronczek 
T.M. Glenn 
R.B. Carter 


Lump Sum Cash 
Payment - 
2x Base Salary and 
2x Target Annual 
Bonus Health Benefits Total 
($) ($) ($) 
5,828,016 48,703 5,876,719 
3,430,580 34,173 3,464,753 
3,768,384 32,819 3,801,203 
3,166,784 30,780 3,197,564 
2,899,248 26,636 2,925,884 


2014 Proxy Statement 


51 


PROPOSAL 2 — ADVISORY VOTE TO APPROVE NAMED 
EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION 


We are asking stockholders to approve, on a non-binding basis, 
the following advisory resolution at the annual meeting: 


“RESOLVED, that the compensation paid to FedEx’s 
named executive officers, as disclosed in this proxy 
statement pursuant to the compensation disclosure rules 
of the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the 
Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the accompanying 
compensation tables and the related narrative discussion, is 
hereby APPROVED." 


This advisory vote is not intended to address any specific 
element of executive compensation, but instead is intended 
to address the overall compensation of the named executive 
officers as disclosed in this proxy statement. 


Our executive compensation program is designed not only to 
retain and attract highly qualified and effective executives, but 
also to motivate them to substantially contribute to FedEx’s 
future success for the long-term benefit of stockholders 
and reward them for doing so. Accordingly, our Board of 
Directors and Compensation Committee believe that there 
should be a strong relationship between pay and corporate 
performance (both financial results and stock price), and our 
executive compensation program reflects this belief. As more 
fully discussed in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis 
beginning on page 20: 


- Annual and long-term incentive payments and stock 
options represent a significant portion of our executive 
compensation program. This variable compensation. is 
“at risk” and directly dependent upon the achievement of 
pre-established corporate goals or stock price appreciation. 
In fiscal 2014, 90% of the Chairman, President and Chief 
Executive Officer's target total direct compensation 
consisted of variable, at-risk components. With respect to 
the other named executive officers, 57%-59% of their fiscal 
2014 target total direct compensation consisted of variable, 
at-risk components. 


Effect of the Proposal 


This advisory resolution, commonly referred to as a “say- 
on-pay” resolution, is not binding on FedEx, the Board of 
Directors or the Compensation Committee. The vote on this 
proposal will, therefore, not affect any compensation already 
paid or awarded to any named executive officer and will 
not overrule any decisions made by the Board of Directors 


52 2014 Proxy Statement 


- Annual bonus payments for fiscal 2014 were tied to meeting 
aggressive business plan goals for consolidated operating 
income. Because the corporate objectives for consolidated 
operating income for fiscal 2014 were not achieved (even 
though consolidated operating income increased by 35% 
year-over-year), the named executive officers received 
below-target annual bonus payouts for fiscal 2014. 


Long-term incentive payouts are tied to meeting aggregate 
earnings-per-share goals over a three-fiscal-year period. 
Based upon above-target earnings-per-share performance 
over the last three fiscal years, there were above-target long- 
term incentive payouts for fiscal 2014. 


FedEx’s stock price increased by 49.6% during fiscal 2014, 
which significantly exceeds the year-over-year increase in the 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer's fiscal 2014 
compensation (as set forth in the Summary Compensation 
Table on page 37). 


The exercise price of stock options granted under our 
equity incentive plans is equal to the fair market value of our 
common stock on the date of grant, so the options will yield 
value to the executive only if the stock price appreciates. 


- Our stock ownership goal effectively promotes meaningful 
and significant stock ownership by our named executive 
officers and further aligns their interests with those of our 
stockholders. As of August 4, 2014, each named executive 
officer exceeded the stock ownership goal. 


We urge you to read the Compensation Discussion and 
Analysis, as well as the Summary Compensation Table and 
related compensation tables and narrative appearing on 
pages 37 through 51, which provides detailed information on 
our compensation philosophy, policies and practices and the 
compensation of our named executive officers. 


or the Compensation Committee. Because we highly value 
the opinions of our stockholders, however, the Board of 
Directors and the Compensation Committee will consider the 
results of this advisory vote when making future executive 
compensation decisions. 


PROPOSAL 2 — ADVISORY VOTE TO APPROVE NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION 


Vote Required for Approval 


The affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present at the YOUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS THAT YOU 
meeting, in person or represented by proxy, and entitled to VOTE “FOR” THIS PROPOSAL. 
vote is required to approve this proposal. 


2014 Proxy Statement 53 


EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS 


Equity Compensation Plans Approved by Stockholders 


Stockholders approved FedEx’s 1995, 1997, 1999 and 2002 Stock 
Incentive Plans, as amended, FedEx’s Incentive Stock Plan, as 
amended, and FedEx’s 2010 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan, as 


amended. Although options are still outstanding under the 
1995, 1997, 1999 and 2002 plans and the Incentive Stock Plan, 
no shares are available under these plans for future grants. 


Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Stockholders 


FedEx’s 2001 Restricted Stock Plan, as amended, was approved 
by the Board of Directors, but was not approved by the 
stockholders. The 2001 Restricted Stock Plan was terminated 
in September 2010, and no further grants may be made under 
this plan, although, as of May 31, 2014, there were still unvested 
restricted share awards outstanding under the plan (all such 
shares have subsequently vested). Under the terms of this plan, 
key employees received restricted shares of common stock as 
determined by the Compensation Committee. Only treasury 
shares were issued under this plan. Holders of restricted shares 
were entitled to vote such shares and to receive any dividends 
paid on FedEx common stock. 


In connection with its acquisition of Caliber System, Inc. in 
January 1998, FedEx assumed Caliber’s officers’ deferred 
compensation plan. This plan was approved by Caliber’s board 


Summary Table 


of directors, but not by Caliber’s or FedEx’s stockholders. 
Following FedEx’s acquisition of Caliber, Caliber stock units 
under the plan were converted to FedEx common stock 
equivalent units. In addition, the employer's 50% matching 
contribution on compensation deferred under the plan was 
made in FedEx common stock equivalent units. Subject to 
the provisions of the plan, distributions to participants with 
respect to their stock units may be paid in shares of FedEx 
common stock on a one-for-one basis. Effective January 1, 
2003, no further deferrals or employer matching contributions 
will be made under the plan. Participants may continue to 
acquire FedEx common stock equivalent units under the plan, 
however, pursuant to dividend equivalent rights. 


The following table sets forth certain information as of May 31, 2014, with respect to compensation plans under which shares of 


FedEx common stock may be issued. 


Equity Compensation Plan Information 


Number of Shares to be 
Issued Upon Exercise of 
Outstanding Options, 
Warrants and Rights 


Plan Category 

Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders 
Equity compensation plans not approved by stockholders 
Total 


Number of Shares 
Remaining Available for 
Future Issuance Under 
Equity Compensation 
Plans (Excluding Shares 
Reflected in the First 


Weighted-Average 
Exercise Price of 
Outstanding Options, 


Warrants and Rights Column) 

15,634,856" $9171 15,540,209 
1,561 N/A = 
15,636,417 $91.71 15,540,209 


(1) Represents shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options granted under FedEx’s stock option plans. This number does not include: (a) 2,160 shares of 
common stock issuable under a retirement plan assumed by FedEx for former non-employee directors of Caliber System, Inc.; and (b) 123 shares of common stock issuable under 


stock credit plans assumed by FedEx in the Caliber acquisition. 


FedEx cannot make any additional awards under these assumed plans, but additional FedEx common stock equivalent units may be issued to current participants under the 


assumed stock credit plans pursuant to dividend equivalent rights. 


(2) Shares available for equity grants under FedEx’s 2010 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (no more than 2,431,336 of the shares available under the 2010 Omnibus Stock 


Incentive Plan may be used for full-value awards). 


(3) Represents shares of FedEx common stock issuable pursuant to the officers’ deferred compensation plan assumed by FedEx in the Caliber acquisition as described under “— Equity 


Compensation Plans Not Approved by Stockholders” above. 


54 2014 Proxy Statement 


REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD 


OF DIRECTORS 


The Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors in its 
oversight of FedEx's financial reporting process. The Audit 
Committee’s responsibilities are more fully described 
in its charter, which is available on the FedEx website at 
http.//investors.fedex.ccom in the Governance & Citizenship 
section under “Committee Charters.” 


Management has the primary responsibility for the financial 
statements and the financial reporting process, including 
internal control over financial reporting. FedEx's independent 
registered public accounting firm is responsible for performing 
an audit of FedEx’s consolidated financial statements and 
expressing an opinion on the fair presentation of those 
financial statements in conformity with United States generally 
accepted accounting principles. The independent registered 
public accounting firm also is responsible for performing an 
audit of and expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of 
FedEx’s internal control over financial reporting. 


In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, the Audit Committee 
reviewed and discussed with management the audited 
consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended 
May 31, 2014, including a discussion of, among other things: 


- the acceptability and quality of the accounting principles; 


- the reasonableness of significant accounting judgments and 
critical accounting policies and estimates; 


- the clarity of disclosures in the financial statements; and 


- the adequacy and effectiveness of FedEx's financial reporting 
procedures, disclosure controls and procedures and internal 
control over financial reporting, including management's 
assessment and report on internal control over financial 
reporting. 


The Audit Committee also discussed with the Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief Financial Officer of FedEx their respective 
certifications with respect to FedEx's Annual Report on Form 
O-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2014. 


The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed with the 
independent registered public accounting firm the audited 
consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended 
May 31, 2014, the firm's judgments as to the acceptability and 
quality of FedEx’s accounting principles and such other matters 
as are required to be discussed with the Audit Committee 


under the standards of the Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB’), including those 
matters required to be discussed by Auditing Standard No. 16, 
Communications with Audit Committees. The Audit Committee 
also reviewed and discussed with the independent registered 
public accounting firm its audit of the effectiveness of FedEx's 
internal control over financial reporting. 


In addition, the Audit Committee received the written 
disclosures and the letter from the independent registered 
public accounting firm required by applicable requirements 
of the PCAOB regarding the firm’s communications with the 
Audit Committee concerning independence, and discussed 
with the independent registered public accounting firm the 
firm’s independence. 


The Audit Committee discussed with FedEx’s senior internal 
audit executive and independent registered public accounting 
firm the overall scope and plans for their respective audits. 
The Audit Committee meets with the senior internal audit 
executive and the independent registered public accounting 
firm, with and without management present, to discuss the 
results of their examinations, their evaluations of FedEx’s 
internal controls and the overall quality of FedEx’s financial 
reporting. 


n reliance on the reviews and discussions referred to above, 
and the receipt of unqualified opinions from Ernst & Young 
LLP dated July 14, 2014, with respect to the consolidated 
financial statements of FedEx as of and for the fiscal year ended 
ay 31, 2014, and with respect to the effectiveness of FedEx’s 
internal control over financial reporting, the Audit Committee 
recommended to the Board of Directors, and the Board 
approved, that the audited consolidated financial statements 
be included in FedEx’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
fiscal year ended May 31, 2014, for filing with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission. 


Audit Committee Members 


John A. Edwardson — Chairman 
Gary W. Loveman 
R. Brad Martin 
Joshua Cooper Ramo 


2014 Proxy Statement 


55 


AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES 


The following table sets forth fees for services Ernst & Young LLP provided to FedEx during fiscal 2014 and 2013, which were 
preapproved by FedEx’s Audit Committee in accordance with the Policy on Engagement of Independent Auditor (discussed on 


the following page): 


Audit fees 

Audit-related fees 

Tax fees 

All other fees 
Total 


- Audit Fees. Represents fees for professional services provided 
for the audit of FedEx’s annual financial statements, the audit 
of FedEx’s internal control over financial reporting under 
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the review 
of FedEx's quarterly financial statements, audit services 
provided in connection with other statutory or regulatory 
filings, and consents and comfort letters in connection with 
registered securities offerings and registration statements. 


- Audit-Related Fees. Represents fees for assurance and other 
services related to the audit of FedEx’s financial statements. 
The fees for fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 were for benefit plan 
audits, international accounting and reporting compliance, 
and due diligence related to mergers and acquisitions. 


- Tax Fees. Represents fees for professional services provided 
primarily for domestic and international tax compliance 
and advice. Tax compliance and preparation fees totaled 
$149,000 and $192,000 in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. 


2014 2013 
$14,253,000 $13,633,000 
824,000 1,034,000 
377,000 571,000 
817,000 1,090,000 
$16,271,000 $16,328,000 


- All Other Fees. Represents fees for products and services 
provided to FedEx not otherwise included in the categories 
above. The fees for fiscal 2014 were for online technical 
resources and advisory services related to acquisition 
integration planning and information technology risk 
management. The fees for fiscal 2013 were primarily for 
information technology risk assessments, risk advisory 
services and training services and settlement system security 
assessments. 


FedEx’s Audit Committee has determined that the provision 
of non-audit services by Ernst & Young is compatible with 
maintaining Ernst & Young's independence. 


sa 


PROPOSAL 3 — RATIFICATION OF THE APPOINTMENT 
OF THE INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC 


ACCOUNTING FIRM 


Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 


Ernst & Young LLP audited FedEx’s annual financial statements 
for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2014, and FedEx's internal 
control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2014. The Audit 
Committee has appointed Ernst & Young to be FedEx's 
independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal 
year ending May 31, 2015. 


Ernst & Young has been FedEx’s external auditor continuously 
since 2002. The members of the Audit Committee and the 
Board of Directors believe that the continued retention of Ernst 


56 2014 Proxy Statement 


& Young to serve as FedEx's independent registered public 
accounting firm is in the best interests of the company and our 
stockholders. 


The stockholders are asked to ratify this appointment at the 
annual meeting. Representatives of Ernst & Young will be 
present at the meeting to respond to appropriate questions 
and to make a statement if they so desire. 


PROPOSAL 3 — RATIFICATION OF THE APPOINTMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 


Policies Regarding Independent Auditor 


The Audit Committee is directly responsible for the 
appointment, compensation, retention and oversight of our 
independent registered public accounting firm, including 
the audit fee negotiations associated with the retention of 
the firm. Additionally, in conjunction with the mandated 
rotation of the independent registered public accounting 
firm's lead engagement partner, the Audit Committee and its 
chairperson are directly involved in the selection of any new 
lead engagement partner. To help ensure the independence 
of the independent registered public accounting firm, the 
Audit Committee has adopted two policies: the Policy on 
Engagement of Independent Auditor; and the Policy on Hiring 
Certain Employees and Partners of the Independent Auditor. 


Pursuant to the Policy on Engagement of Independent Auditor, 
the Audit Committee preapproves all audit services and non- 
audit services to be provided to FedEx by its independent 
registered public accounting firm. The Audit Committee may 
delegate to one or more of its members the authority to grant 
the required approvals, provided that any exercise of such 
authority is presented at the next Audit Committee meeting. 


The Audit Committee may preapprove for up to one year in 
advance the provision of particular types of permissible routine 
and recurring audit-related, tax and other non-audit services, 
in each case described in reasonable detail and subject to a 
specific annual monetary limit also approved by the Audit 
Committee. The Audit Committee must be informed about 
each such service that is actually provided. In cases where a 
service is not covered by one of those approvals, the service 
must be specifically preapproved by the Audit Committee no 
earlier than one year prior to the commencement of the service. 


Each audit or non-audit service that is approved by the Audit 
Committee (excluding tax services performed in the ordinary 
course of FedEx’s business and excluding other services for 
which the aggregate fees are expected to be less than $25,000) 
will be reflected in a written engagement letter or writing 
specifying the services to be performed and the cost of such 
services, which will be signed by either a member of the Audit 
Committee or by an officer of FedEx authorized by the Audit 
Committee to sign on behalf of FedEx. 


Vote Required For Ratification 


The Audit Committee is responsible for selecting FedEx's 
independent registered public accounting firm. Accordingly, 
stockholder approval is not required to appoint Ernst & Young 
as FedEx’s independent registered public accounting firm 
for fiscal year 2015. The Board of Directors believes, however, 
that submitting the appointment of Ernst & Young to the 
stockholders for ratification is a matter of good corporate 
governance. If the stockholders do not ratify the appointment 
the Audit Committee will review its future selection of the 
independent registered public accounting firm. 


The Audit Committee will not approve any prohibited non- 
audit service or any non-audit service that individually or in 
the aggregate may impair, in the Audit Committee's opinion, 
the independence of the independent registered public 
accounting firm. 


In addition, FedEx’s independent registered public accounting 
firm may not provide any services, including financial counseling 
and tax services, to any FedEx officer, Audit Committee 
member or FedEx managing director (or its equivalent) in the 
Finance department or to any immediate family member of 
any such person. The Policy on Engagement of Independent 
Auditor is available in the Governance & Citizenship section 
under “Policies and Guidelines” of the Investor Relations page 
of our website at http://investors.fedex.com. 


Pursuant to the Policy on Hiring Certain Employees and 
Partners of the Independent Auditor, FedEx will not hire a 
person who is concurrently a partner or other professiona 
employee of the independent registered public accounting 
firm or, in certain cases, an immediate family member of such 
a person. Additionally, FedEx will not hire a former partner 
or professional employee of the independent registered 
public accounting firm in an accounting role or a financia 
reporting oversight role if he or she remains in a position to 
influence the independent registered public accounting firm's 
operations or policies, has capital balances in the independent 
registered public accounting firm or maintains certain other 
financial arrangements with the independent registered 
public accounting firm. FedEx will not hire a former member 
of the independent registered public accounting firm’s audit 
engagement team (with certain exceptions) in a financia 
reporting oversight role without waiting for a required 
“cooling-off" period to elapse. 


FedEx's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer wil 
approve any hire who was employed during the preceding 
three years by the independent registered public accounting 
firm, and will annually report all such hires to the Audit 
Committee. 


The ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young as FedEx’s 
independent registered public accounting firm requires the 
affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present at the 
meeting, in person or represented by proxy, and entitled to 
vote. 


YOUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS THAT YOU 
VOTE “FOR” THIS PROPOSAL. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


57 


PROPOSAL 4 — STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL: 
PROXY ACCESS FOR SHAREHOLDERS 


FedEx is not responsible for the content of this stockholder proposal or supporting statement. 


FedEx has been notified that Myra K. Young, 9295 Yorkship Court, Elk Grove, California 95758, the beneficial owner of 50 shares of 
FedEx common stock, intends to present the following proposal for consideration at the annual meeting: 


“Proposal 4 — Proxy Access for Shareholders 
WHEREAS, FedEx Board is too comfortable and stretched: 


+ Same combined CEO/Chairman 40 years 

- Six directors on three to five boards, 

- Six over 60 years old 

- Five served 10 or more years 

- Between 2 and 9% of shares voted against six in 2013 


PwC's 2013 Survey found 35% of directors (half who served less than one year) believe at least one member of their board should 
be replaced (compared to 31% in 2012 and less than 25% who served more than 10 years). Top three reasons: 


+ Diminished performance because of aging, 
- Lack of expertise, and 
- Poor meeting preparation. 


Other issues specific to FedEx include related party transactions, use of corporate jet and settlements regarding: 
- Improper deliveries and delivery charges, and 
- Discrimination. 


RESOLVED, Shareowners ask our board, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to amend our governing documents to allow 
shareowners to make board nominations as follows: 


1. The Company proxy statement, form of proxy, and voting instruction forms shall include, listed with the board’s nominees, 
alphabetically by last name, nominees of: 


a. Any party of one or more shareowners that has collectively held, continuously for three years, at least three percent of the 
Company's securities eligible to vote for the election of directors, and/or 


b. Any party of shareowners of whom 25 or more have each held continuously for three years a number of shares of the 
Company's stock that, at some point within the preceding 60 days, was worth at least $2,000 and collectively at least three 
percent of the Company's securities eligible to vote for the election of directors. 


2. For any board election, no shareowner may be a member of more than one such nominating party. Board members and 
officers of the Company may not be members of any such nominating party of shareowners. 


3, Parties nominating under 1(a) may collectively, and parties nominating under 1(b) may collectively, make nominations 
numbering up to 24% of the company’s board of directors. If either group should exceed its 24% limit, opportunities to nominate 
shall be distributed among parties in that group as evenly as possible. 


4. If necessary, preference among 1(a) nominators will be shown to those holding the greatest number of the Company's shares 
for at least two years, and preference among 1(b) nominators will be shown to those with the greatest number who have each 
held continuously for one year a number of shares of the Company's stock that, at some point within the preceding 60 days, was 
worth at least $2,000. 


5. Nominees may include in the proxy statement a 500 word supporting statement. 


6. Each proxy statement or special meeting notice to elect board members shall include instructions for nominating under these 
provisions, fully explaining all legal requirements for nominators and nominees under federal law, state law and the company's 
governing documents. 


Vote to enhance shareholder value: 


Proxy Access for Shareholders — Proposal 4” 


58 2014 Proxy Statement 


PROPOSAL 4 — STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL: PROXY ACCESS FOR SHAREHOLDERS 


Board of Directors’ Statement in Opposition 


The Board of Directors and its Nominating & Governance 
Committee have considered this proposal and concluded that 
its adoption is unnecessary and not in the best interests of our 
stockholders. 


Proxy access would bypass our independent Nominating 
& Governance Committee’s process for identifying and 
recommending director nominees. An _ effective board 
of directors is composed of individuals with a diverse and 
complementary blend of experiences, skills and perspectives. 
Our independent Nominating & Governance Committee and 
Board of Directors are best situated to assess the particular 
qualifications of potential director nominees and determine 
whether they will contribute to an effective and well-rounded 
Board that operates openly and collaboratively. Allowing 
stockholders to nominate directors in our proxy statement 
would seriously undercut the role of the Nominating & 
Governance Committee and the Board in one of the most 
crucial elements of corporate governance, the election 
of directors. 


Our Nominating & Governance Committee has developed 
criteria and a process for identifying and recommending 
director candidates for election by our stockholders, which are 
set forth in our Corporate Governance Guidelines and discussed 
above under “Corporate Governance Matters — Nomination of 
Director Candidates” and “Proposal 1 - Election of Directors — 
Experience, Qualifications, Attributes and Skills.” In undertaking 
this responsibility, the Nominating & Governance Committee 
has a fiduciary duty to act in good faith for the best interests 
of FedEx and all of our stockholders. This process is designed 
to identify and nominate director candidates who possess a 
combination of skills, professional experience and diversity 

fo) 

h 


of backgrounds necessary to oversee our business and wh 
can contribute to the overall effectiveness of our Board. Wit 
this process, we believe that our Nominating & Governance 
Committee and Board achieve the optimal balance of directors 
that best serve FedEx and our stockholders. 


Our stockholders can recommend prospective director 
candidates for the Nominating & Governance Committee's 
consideration. As discussed above under “Corporate 
Governance Matters — Nomination of Director Candidates,” 
our Nominating & Governance Committee considers director 
nominees proposed by our stockholders. Nominees proposed 
by stockholders for the Committee’s consideration are 
evaluated and considered in the same manner as a nominee 
recommended by a Board member, management, search firm 
or other source. 


FedEx’s corporate governance policies ensure that the Board 
of Directors is held accountable and provide stockholders 
with access to the Board. The Board is accountable to FedEx’s 
stockholders through the protections that are embedded in 
our governing documents. For example: 


- All directors are elected annually; 
+ Our Bylaws require that we use a majority-voting standard 
in uncontested director elections and include a resignation 
requirement for directors who fail to receive the required 
majority vote. The Bylaws also prohibit the Board from 
changing back to a plurality-voting standard without the 
approval of our stockholders; 
- All supermajority stockholder voting requirements in our 
Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws have been eliminated; 
+ Our Bylaws require stockholder approval for any future 
“poison pill’ prior to or within twelve months after adoption 
of the poison pill; and 
+ Stockholders are allowed to call a special stockholders’ 
meeting, subject to the conditions set forth in our Bylaws. 


=a 


In addition, our stockholders currently have the right to: 


+ Communicate directly with any director (including our Lead 
Independent Director), any Board committee or the full 
Board; 

- Propose director nominees to the Nominating & Governance 
Committee, as discussed above; 

+ Submit proposals for presentation at an annual meeting 
and for inclusion in FedEx's proxy statement for that annual 
meeting, subject to certain conditions and the rules and 
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission; and 

- Submit proposals, including nominations of director 
candidates, directly at an annual meeting, subject to certain 
conditions as set forth in our Bylaws. 


The Board believes that FedEx's existing corporate governance 
policies provide the appropriate balance between ensuring 
Board accountability to stockholders and enabling the Board 
to effectively oversee FedEx’'s business and affairs for the long- 
term benefit of stockholders. In addition, these policies provide 
our stockholders with meaningful access to Board members. 


Proxy access could decrease the effectiveness of our 
corporate governance. Allowing stockholders to use 
company proxy materials for contested director elections will 
not improve FedEx's corporate governance. Rather, proxy 
access could harm our company, Board of Directors and 
stockholders by: 


- Significantly Disrupting Company and Board Operations. 
With proxy access, contested director elections could 
become routine. Divisive proxy contests would regularly 
and substantially disrupt company affairs and the effective 
functioning of our Board of Directors. We would be compelled 
to devote significant financial resources in support of Board- 
nominated candidates, and our management and directors 
would be required to divert their time from managing and 
overseeing company business to supporting Board director 
nominees. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


PROPOSAL 4 — STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL: PROXY ACCESS FOR SHAREHOLDERS 


» Enhancing the Ability of Special Interest Groups to Elect 
Directors. Proxy access would facilitate the nomination 
and election of special interest directors who further the 
particular agendas of the stockholders who nominated 
them, rather than the interests of all stockholders and 
FedEx's long-term business goals. 

+ Balkanizing the Board of Directors. The election of stockholder- 
nominated directors could create factions on the Board, 
leading to dissension and delay and thereby precluding the 
Board's ability to function effectively. A politicized Board of 
Directors cannot effectively serve the best interests of all our 
stockholders. 

- Discouraging Highly Qualified Director Candidates from 
Serving. The prospect of routinely standing for election 
in a contested situation would deter highly qualified 
individuals from Board service. Such prospect also may 
cause our incumbent directors to become excessively risk 
averse, thereby impairing their ability to provide sound and 
prudent guidance with respect to all of our operations and 
interests. 


Vote Required for Approval 


If this proposal is properly presented at the meeting, approval 
requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present 
at the meeting, in person or represented by proxy, and entitled 
to vote. 


60 2014 Proxy Statement 


The proposal’s thresholds for nomination are too low 
and do not encourage Board representation focused on 
the long-term best interests of all FedEx stockholders. 
The proposal’s threshold of 3% ownership for three years is 
too low. These ownership requirements do not represent a 
sufficiently substantial, long-term interest in FedEx that justifies 
the significant costs and disruption of possible regular proxy 
contests. In addition, these low ownership thresholds would 
make it easier for stockholders with a special interest to use 
the company’s proxy materials to publicize and campaign for 
their narrow agenda rather than the long-term best interests 
of all our stockholders. 


For these reasons, we believe that this proposal is unnecessary 
and not in the best interests of our stockholders. Accordingly, 
we recommend that you vote against this proposal. 


YOUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS THAT YOU 
VOTE “AGAINST” THIS PROPOSAL. 


PROPOSAL 5 — STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL: 
SIMPLE MAJORITY VOTE-COUNTING 


FedEx is not responsible for the content of this stockholder proposal or supporting statement. 


FedEx has been notified that Investor Voice, SPC, 10033 12" Avenue NW, Seattle, Washington 98177, as representative of the 
Equality Network Foundation, the beneficial owner of 30 shares of FedEx common stock, intends to present the following 
proposal for consideration at the annual meeting: 


“Resotvep: Shareholders of FedEx Corporation ("FedEx" or “Company”) hereby request the Board of Directors to take or initiate the 
steps necessary to amend the Company's governing documents to provide that all matters presented to shareholders, other than 
the election of directors, shall be decided by a simple majority of the shares voted FOR and AGAINST an item. This policy shall 
apply to all such matters unless shareholders have approved higher thresholds, or applicable laws or stock exchange regulations 
dictate otherwise. 


SUPPORTING STATEMENT: 


Vote Calculation Methodologies a report prepared for CalPERS by GMI Ratings, studied companies in the S&P 500 and 
Russell 1000, and found that 48% employ the simple majority vote-counting standard requested by this Proposal. See 
http://www.calpers-governance.org/docs-sof/provyvoting/calpers-russell-1000-vote-calculation-methodology-final-v2.pdf 


Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation and the 19th largest company in America, adopted and implemented this Proposal. 
Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc.,a Delaware corporation and the largest private landowner in the nation, has adopted and 
implemented this Proposal. 


FedEx is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). An SEC Rule dictates a specific vote-counting formula 
for the purpose of establishing eligibility for resubmission of shareholder-sponsored proposals. This formula — which for the 
purpose of this proposal will be called the “Simple Majority Vote" — is the votes cast FOR, divided by two categories of vote, the: 


- FOR, plus 
» AGAINST votes. 


FedEx does not uniformly follow the Simple Majority Vote. Its proxy states (for shareholder-sponsored proposals) that 
abstentions “will have the same practical effect as votes against the proposal.” 


This means that results are determined by the votes cast FOR a proposal, divided by not two, but three different categories of vote: 


- FOR votes, 
» AGAINST votes, plus 
« ABSTAIN votes. 


We note, for Management-sponsored Proposal 1 (in uncontested director elections), that FedEx embraces the Simple Majority 
Vote and excludes abstentions, saying they “will have no effect.” 


However, the Company then applies a more restrictive vote-counting formula to all shareholder-sponsored items and other 
management-sponsored ones, using a formula that includes abstentions. 


The outcome is that these practices advantage management's uncontested slate of director nominees by boosting the 
appearance of support on Management-sponsored Proposal 1, relative to other items, while they depress the calculated level of 
support for all other items — including every shareholder-sponsored proposal — by subjecting them to a higher threshold. 


As well, in regard to shareholder-sponsored items, abstaining voters have not followed the Board's recommendation to cast 
their vote AGAINST. Despite this, FedEx counts all abstentions as if every abstaining voter, without exception, has chosen to follow 
the Board's recommendation to vote AGAINST. 


In our view FedEx’s use of these two different vote-counting formulas is internally inconsistent, is confusing, does not fully 
honor voter intent, and harms shareholder best-interest. 


Therefore, please vote FOR this widely accepted and common-sense governance Proposal that calls for a fair and 
consistent Simple Majority Vote across-the-board (while allowing flexibility for different thresholds where required).” 


2014 Proxy Statement 


61 


62 


PROPOSAL 5 — STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL: SIMPLE MAJORITY VOTE-COUNTING 


Board of Directors’ Statement in Opposition 


The Board of Directors and its Nominating & Governance 
Committee have considered this proposal and concluded that 
its adoption is unnecessary and not in the best interests of our 
stockholders. 


FedEx’s stockholder approval standard and vote counting 
methodology of including abstentions adheres to Delaware 
law and is the standard used by a majority of Delaware 
companies. FedEx is incorporated in the State of Delaware 
and, therefore, Delaware law governs the voting standards for 
action by FedEx’s stockholders. 


The required vote for action by FedEx's stockholders follows 
the default approval standard for stockholder action under 
Delaware law. Under FedEx’s Bylaws, when a quorum is present, 
the vote of the holders of the majority of the shares present, in 
person or by proxy, and entitled to vote is required to approve 
any matter brought before a stockholder meeting, other than 
the election of directors. We believe the majority of Delaware 
corporations adhere to the same default voting standard. 


Delaware law governs the way abstentions are counted, 
and under such law, abstention votes are considered shares 
“entitled to vote.” In the vote tabulation for matters that require 
the affirmative vote of the majority of the shares present and 
entitled to vote, abstentions are included in the denominator 
as shares entitled to vote and have the same practical effect as 
a vote “against” a proposal. 


FedEx’s vote counting methodology of including abstentions 
applies identically to management-sponsored proposals 
and stockholder proposals. \n its supporting statement, the 
proponent focuses on the effect that counting abstentions 
as “against” votes has on stockholder proposals. However, 
abstentions are also counted as “against” management 
sponsored proposals, other than the election of directors. 
At the annual meeting, our stockholders are being asked to 
adopt an advisory resolution to approve named executive 
officer compensation and to ratify the appointment of FedEx’s 
independent registered public accounting firm — both of which 
the Board recommends that stockholders support. Abstention 
votes for each of these management-sponsored proposals 
have the same practical effect as a vote against them, as with 
stockholder proposals. Our vote count standard does not favor 
these management-sponsored proposals over the stockholder 
proposals. Both are treated equally. 


The Board of Directors believes that since stockholders are 
made aware of the treatment and effect of abstentions, 
counting abstention votes effectively honors the intent of 
our stockholders. Stockholders typically have three voting 
choices for a particular proposal: for, against and abstain. In 
the proxy statement for the annual meeting, we disclose the 
vote required to approve each proposal. We also describe 


2014 Proxy Statement 


how abstentions will be counted in the vote tabulation and 
the effect of abstentions on the outcome of a matter, on a 
proposal-by-proposal basis. Our stockholders are, therefore, 
informed that if they vote “abstain” on a proposal other than 
the election of directors, their vote will have the same practical 
effect as an “against” vote. 


[he Board of Directors believes that counting abstention 
votes effectively honors the intent of our stockholders. If a 
stockholder elects to abstain on a matter, the Board believes 
that the stockholder recognizes the impact of the vote and 
expects it to be included in the vote count. 


The Board of Directors believes that lowering the 
approval standard for proposals would be poor corporate 
governance. Except with respect to the election of directors 
and matters that require, statutorily or otherwise, a different 
vote, the Board of Directors believes that a proposal — whether 
management-sponsored or stockholder-sponsored — should 
receive more “for” votes than the sum of “against” and “abstain” 
votes in order to constitute approval by our stockholders. 


The proponent requests that abstentions be ignored for all 
matters presented to FedEx stockholders. Ignoring abstention 
votes would lower the approval standard (that is, make approval 
easier). We believe the proponent of a proposal, whether 
management or a stockholder, should be able to persuade a 
majority of stockholders to affirmatively vote “for” an item to 
consider it approved. An abstention indicates that stockholders 
are not in favor of the proposal. The Board of Directors does 
not believe that this would be in our stockholders’ best interest 
or effective corporate governance to disregard these views. 


The SEC does not have a standard to determine whether 
a proposal has been approved by stockholders. The 
proponent’s argumentof using the SEC “vote-counting formula” 
of excluding abstentions in vote tabulations is misguided. The 
SEC does not have a standard governing whether a proposal 
has been approved, because this is a matter of state law (in 
our case, Delaware state law). Because the SEC regulates proxy 
statements, the so-called vote-counting rules are simply for 
determining whether a proponent may resubmit a proposal 
for inclusion in a company’s proxy statement. 


In sum, the Board believes that FedEx’s current vote counting 
methodology of including abstentions on matters other than 
the election of directors best reflects and honors the intent 
of our stockholders who vote to abstain on a proposal. This 
standard applies to both management-sponsored proposals 
and stockholder proposals and ensures that a matter has 
the requisite affirmative support to constitute approval by 
our stockholders. Accordingly, we recommend that you vote 
against this proposal. 


PROPOSAL 5 — STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL: SIMPLE MAJORITY VOTE-COUNTING 


Vote Required for Approval 


If this proposal is properly presented at the meeting, approval YOUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS THAT YOU 
requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present VOTE “AGAINST” THIS PROPOSAL. 

at the meeting, in person or represented by proxy, and entitled 

to vote. 


2014 Proxy Statement 63 


PROPOSAL 6 — STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL: 
HEDGING AND PLEDGING POLICY 


FedEx is not responsible for the content of this stockholder proposal or supporting statement. 


FedEx has been notified that Amalgamated Bank’s LongView LargeCap 500 Index Fund, 275 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York 
10001, the beneficial owner of 44,227 shares of FedEx common stock, intends to present the following proposal for consideration 
at the annual meeting: 


“RESOLVED: The shareholders of FedEx Corporation urge the board of directors to adopt a policy (the “Policy”) that equity- 
based compensation plans should prohibit directors and senior executives who are compensated under such plans from 
engaging in hedging or pledging transactions involving FedEx shares issued pursuant to those plans. “Hedging or pledging 
transactions” include trading in puts, calls or other derivative products whose underlying asset is FedEx’s stock; engaging in 
hedging or monetization transactions such as prepaid forward contracts; holding shares in a margin account; or pledging shares 
as collateral for a loan. The board may, in its discretion, supplement the definition of “hedging or pledging transactions” to include 
other transactions involving FedEx shares that, in the board's judgment, undermine a director's or senior executive's alignment of 
interest with the shareholders’ interest and the incentive effects of equity-based compensation. 


The Policy should operate prospectively to equity-based compensation plans adopted after the date on which the board 
adopts the Policy (as well as to future amendments of existing plans) and should be applied so as not to violate any contractual 
obligations of FedEx. 


SUPPORTING STATEMENT 


As shareholders, we support executive compensation policies that reward long-term performance and align the interests of 
senior executives and directors with those of shareholders. We are concerned that this may not be happening at FedEx. 


A FedEx company manual generally bars hedging and pledging transactions, but allows FedEx’s general counsel to 
grant exceptions. The general counsel has done so for Chair and CEO Fred W. Smith, who (according to last year’s proxy) has 
pledged 24% of his holdings to collateralize loans that fund his outside business ventures (about which FedEx does not disclose 
information regarding the identity, financial health, risks, or potential conflicts of interest). A 2012 Wall Street Journal survey noted 
that the value of Smith's pledged shares was the largest amount disclosed among the companies reporting that their executives 
had pledged shares. 


We support a prohibition covering directors and senior executives that appears not simply in an internal manual, but in the 
text of equity-compensation plans that are presented to and approved by shareholders. A similar proposal received a nearly 30% 
“yes” vote last year; we believe that the need for a strong policy remains. 


We believe that making this requirement a condition of being compensated under such plans could more closely align the 
interest of directors and senior executives with the interests of shareholders. For example, if a senior executive's pledged shares 
are subject to a margin call, a significant number of shares may be suddenly dumped on the market, which can depress a stock 
price that is already declining. Similarly, if holdings in company shares are hedged, senior executives and directors may be better 
protected against price drops than other shareholders. 


Proxy advisor Institutional Shareholder Services considers hedging and pledging a failure of risk oversight sufficient to warrant 
possible votes against directors, a committee or the entire board. 


We urge shareholders to vote for this proposal.” 


64 2014 Proxy Statement 


PROPOSAL 6 — STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL: HEDGING AND PLEDGING POLICY 


Board of Directors’ Statement in Opposition 


The Board of Directors and its Compensation and Nominating & 
Governance Committees have considered this proposal and 
concluded that its adoption is unnecessary and not in the best 
interests of our stockholders. 


FedEx prohibits its officers and directors from engaging in 
hedging or similar transactions involving FedEx shares. \Ve 
already satisfy an essential element of the proposal by 
prohibiting our directors and officers from engaging in 
transactions that signal a lack of confidence in FedEx’'s 
prospects or that shift or hedge any economic risk associated 
with owning FedEx shares, including the following: 


Publicly traded (or exchange-traded) options, such as puts, 
calls and other derivative securities; 

Short sales, including “sales against the box”; and 

Hedging or monetization transactions, such as zero-cost 
collars and forward sales contracts. 


We recognize that these transactions could weaken the 
incentives created by our executive compensation program 
and result in a disconnect between the interests of our officers 
and directors and the interests of our stockholders. Therefore, 
in 2013 we amended our policy to prohibit hedging and 
monetization transactions in all circurnstances. 


FedEx’s current pledging policy is reasonable and 
effectively balances the interests of management and our 
stockholders. An officer's and director's ability to manage his 
or her financial affairs must be appropriately balanced against 
the potential adverse impact to stockholders and the company 
that could result from the pledging of a significant number of 
company shares by executives and directors. FedEx's current 
policy on margin accounts and pledges of FedEx shares strikes 
this balance. 


FedEx generally prohibits our officers and directors from 
holding FedEx shares in a margin account or pledging 
FedEx shares as collateral for a loan. In the past, our Genera 
Counsel was permitted to grant an exception to this policy 
on a case-by-case basis for an officer or director who clearly 
demonstrated the financial capacity to repay the loan without 
resorting to the pledged shares. In an effort to more effectively 
balance the interests of management and our stockholders, 
we recently amended our policy to provide that our Genera 
Counsel, together with our Lead Independent Director, may 
grant such exceptions for any FedEx director or the Chairman, 
President and Chief Executive Officer. The General Counse 
is still permitted to grant case-by-case exceptions for other 
FedEx officers. 


We believe that our pledging policy effectively mitigates 
the risk that forced sales of pledged shares could prompt a 
broader sell-off or further depress a declining stock price, 
while providing our officers and directors with reasonable 
flexibility to use their FedEx shares as collateral for loans for 
needed liquidity and encouraging them to retain substantial 
ownership of their shares. 


A complete prohibition of all pledging transactions could 
discourage our Board members and senior officers from 
holding significant amounts of FedEx stock. As discussed 
above under “Corporate Governance Matters - Stock 
Ownership Goal for Directors and Senior Officers,” the Board of 
Directors has established a stock ownership goal for directors 
and senior officers. This goal has been highly effective in 


promoting meaningful and significant stock 
executives and Board members and align 
with the interests of our stockholders. A 
has shown a direct correlation between 


ownership by our 
ing their interests 
cademic research 
executive stock 


ownership and favorable stockholder returns. A complete ban 
on pledging, however, could discourage our executives and 
directors from owning significant levels of FedEx stock, which 
we believe would negatively affect stockholders. 


Reasonable amounts of share pledging, when used as an 
alternative to selling the shares outright, do not raise the same 
concerns as hedging transactions designed to protect against 
drops in stock price. Pledging in this context is simply a way 
for the executive to achieve liquidity without sacrificing stock 
ownership. It is not used to shift or hedge any economic risk or 
as a bet against FedEx shares and, therefore, does not create 
any misalignment of management and stockholder interests. 


FedEx shares may constitute a significant portion of an 
executive's or director's personal assets. As a result, situations 
may arise in which using FedEx shares as collateral for his or her 
financial obligations or held in margin accounts is an attractive 
means to obtain liquidity rather than achieving it through 
decreased share ownership. Absent the ability to pledge FedEx 
shares in this manner, an officer or director may be forced to 
sell shares. 


An absolute prohibition on pledging could create a disincentive 
for our officers and directors to hold substantial amounts of 
FedEx shares for long periods. We believe stockholders are 
interested in requiring executives to hold significant levels of 
company shares as a form of good governance. 


Only one FedEx executive officer or director has any 
pledged FedEx shares, and this particular situation does 
not present any meaningful risk to the company or our 
stockholders. Our policy as applied demonstrates that it 
has been implemented reasonably. Only Frederick W. Smith, 
FedEx's founder and Chairman of the Board, President and 
Chief Executive Officer, has pledged shares. None of the 
shares pledged by Mr. Smith were acquired through a FedEx 
equity compensation plan. His pledged shares are not used to 
shift or hedge any economic risk in owning FedEx stock, but 
to collateralize loans used to fund outside personal business 
ventures and prior purchases of FedEx shares. In accordance 
with our policy, Mr. Smith has established his financial capacity 
to repay the loan without resorting to the pledged shares. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


65 


PROPOSAL 6 — STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL: HEDGING AND PLEDGING POLICY 


The Board of Directors does not believe that this transaction 
presents any meaningful risk to FedEx or our stockholders. No 
other FedEx executive officer or Board member currently holds 
FedEx shares that are pledged pursuant to a margin account, 
loan or otherwise. 


Including the pledging and hedging prohibition in an equity 
compensation plan is unnecessary and would not benefit 
our stockholders. \We have adopted comprehensive and 
detailed policies — the FedEx Securities Manual — that regulate 
trading in FedEx stock by our employees, including our 
executive officers, and Board members. The Securities Manual 
also includes our policy on hedging and pledging transactions. 
A violation of the Securities Manual could result in termination 
of employment. 


The proponent asserts that including the hedging and 
pledging prohibition in an equity compensation plan 
could more closely align the interest of directors and senior 


Vote Required for Approval 


If this proposal is properly presented at the meeting, approval 
requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present 
at the meeting, in person or represented by proxy, and entitled 
to vote. 


66 2014 Proxy Statement 


executives with stockholder interests. We disagree. All FedEx 
officers and directors are required to comply with the policies 
set forth in the Securities Manual, and our General Counsel 
oversees compliance with and enforcement of these policies. 
The inclusion of our policy on pledging and hedging in the 
Securities Manual is arguably stronger than the placement of 
the policy in an equity compensation plan, since violations of 
the Securities Manual could lead to termination of employment 
while violating a provision of the equity compensation plan 
would only affect the terms of equity compensation granted 
under the plan. The proposal’s request, therefore, in no way 
enhances the efficacy of the policy or provides any discernible 
benefit to our stockholders. 


For these reasons, we believe that this proposal is unnecessary 
and not in the best interests of our stockholders. Accordingly, 
we recommend that you vote against this proposal. 


YOUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS THAT YOU 
VOTE “AGAINST” THIS PROPOSAL. 


PROPOSAL 7 — STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL: 
TAX PAYMENTS ON RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS 


FedEx is not responsible for the content of this stockholder proposal or supporting statement. 


FedEx has been notified that the International Brotherhood of Teamsters General Fund, 25 Louisiana Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 
20001, the beneficial owner of 176 shares of FedEx common stock, intends to present the following proposal for consideration at 
the annual meeting: 


“RESOLVED: The stockholders of FedEx Corporation (the “Company") urge the compensation committee of the board of 
directors to adopt a policy that the Company will not pay the personal taxes owned on restricted stock awards on behalf of named 
executive officers. This policy should be forward-looking and become effective when the Company next adopts or amends its 
equity compensation plans after the 2014 annual shareholder meeting. This policy should be implemented without violating the 
Company's existing contractual obligations or the terms of any existing compensation or benefit plan. 


SUPPORTING STATEMENT: Our Company has a policy under which it pays the taxes on restricted stock awards received by named 
executive officers. FedEx determines the total target value of the award and provides that value in two components: restricted shares 
and cash payment of taxes due. The number of shares delivered to the officers is reduced by the amount of taxes owed. 


Last year's proxy statement reports that four officers received a total of 31,235 shares of restricted stock on June 4, 2012. To alleviate 
the officers from the tax burden on these awards, FedEx paid $1,527,368 on their behalf. Similar tax payments were higher in the two 
previous years. In 2012, FedEx paid $1,533,734 on behalf of officers in receipt of restricted stock awards and in 2011, it paid $1,537,579. 


We do not believe covering officers’ taxes is an effective use of corporate resources. Our Company's primary competitor in the 
United States, United Parcel Service, does not pay its officers’ taxes on restricted stock awards. FedEx officers are among the most 
highly compensated employees at our firm and therefore are better equipped than many of our workers to pay their own taxes. 
The officers can choose to pay the taxes out of pocket or sell shares in an amount equal to the tax obligation. 


The Securities and Exchange Commission required FedEx to include the taxes paid on behalf of officers in the Summary 
Compensation Table of its 2013 proxy statement as “other compensation.” In that reporting, FedEx acknowledged the requirement 
but argued, “we do not believe these payments are ‘tax gross-ups’ in the traditional sense, since their value is fully reflected in the 
number of shares ultimately delivered to recipients.” 


A difference in how the tax payments are calculated and reported, however, does not excuse the Company's decision to continue 
with the outdated and much criticized practice of paying officers’ personal taxes. Such a practice sends a signal that the board is 
either unaware of or disregards investor concerns about executive payments that are untied to performance. 


We urge our fellow shareholders to vote in favor of this proposal.” 


Board of Directors’ Statement in Opposition 


The Board of Directors and its Compensation and Nominating & payments. Because the amount of the tax payment is included 


Governance Committees have considered this proposal and in the calculation of the target value of the restricted stock 
concluded that its adoption is unnecessary and not in the best award, the officers receive fewer shares of each award by an 
interests of our stockholders. amount equal in value to the tax payment. 


FedEx's restricted stock program has been in place for over This methodology prevents the need for an officer to make a 
20 years and has encouraged FedEx executives to own and disposition of FedEx stock to cover the tax consequences of a 
retain company stock. By facilitating the ownership of FedEx restricted stock award and dilute his or her interest in FedEx. 
shares by our executives, we strengthen the alignment of their Absent the tax payment, the number of shares received in 
interests with those of our investors. When granting restricted each award would be larger by an amount equal in value to 
stock, the Compensation Committee first determines the total the forgone tax payment, thereby having a dilutive effect 
target value of the award and then approves the delivery of on our stockholders’ equity interest in FedEx. While SEC 
that value in two components: restricted shares and cash disclosure rules require that these payments be included 
payment of taxes due. The total target value of the award is with tax reimbursement payments and reported as “other 
the same as it would be if the company did not provide tax compensation” in the Summary Compensation Table, we do 


2014 Proxy Statement 67 


PROPOSAL 7 — STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL: TAX PAYMENTS ON RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS 


not believe these payments are “tax gross-ups” in the traditional 
sense, since their value is fully reflected in the number of 
shares ultimately delivered to recipients. The following chart 
illustrates this principle, using the target value for the fiscal year 
2014 restricted stock awards granted to FedEx Corporation 


executive vice presidents (as in previous years, Frederick W. 
Smith, FedEx’s Chairman of the Board, President and Chief 
Executive Officer, did not receive a restricted stock award in 
fiscal 2014): 


Target Value of Restricted Stock Award 


$1,000,000 


$800,000 


$600,000 


$400,000 


5,720 
shares 


$200,000 


10,061 


shares 


$0 


Current Practice 


B Target value of shares granted 


Not only is the value to the officer, as well as the cost to the 
company, generally the same as it would be otherwise, but this 
practice uses fewer shares of stock to arrive at the same benefit 
and has proved extremely successful in retaining executives 
and enabling them to retain their shares. 


Vote Required for Approval 


If this proposal is properly presented at the meeting, approval 
requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present 
at the meeting, in person or represented by proxy, and entitled 
to vote. 


68 2014 Proxy Statement 


No Tax Reimbursement 


® Tax reimbursement amount 


In sum, we strongly believe that our restricted stock program 
is effectively designed and is aligned with the best interests of 
our stockholders. Accordingly, we recommend that you vote 
against this proposal. 


YOUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS THAT YOU 
VOTE “AGAINST” THIS PROPOSAL. 


PROPOSAL 8 — STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL: 
POLITICAL DISCLOSURE AND ACCOUNTABILITY 


FedEx is not responsible for the content of this stockholder proposal or supporting statement. 


FedEx has been notified that the Comptroller of the City of New York, 1 Centre Street, New York, New York 10007-2341, as 
custodian and a trustee of the New York City Employees’ Retirement System, the New York City Fire Department Pension Fund, 
the New York City Teachers’ Retirement System, and the New York City Police Pension Fund, and custodian of the New York City 
Board of Education Retirement System, the beneficial owner of 669,548 shares of FedEx common stock, intends to present the 
following proposal for consideration at the annual meeting: 


“Resolved, that the shareholders of FedEx (“Company”) hereby request that the Company provide a report, updated 
semiannually, disclosing the Company's: 


(a) Policies and procedures for making political contributions and expenditures (both direct and indirect) with corporate 
funds, including the board's role (if any) in that process, and 


(b) Monetary and non-monetary political contributions or expenditures that could not be deducted as an “ordinary and 
necessary” business expense under section 162(e) of the Internal Revenue Code; this would include (but not be limited to) 
contributions to or expenditures on behalf of political candidates, political parties, political committees and other entities 
organized and operating under sections 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, as well as the portion of any dues or payments 
that are made to any tax-exempt organization (such as a trade association) and that are used for an expenditure or contribution 
that, if made directly by the Company, would not be deductible under section 162(e) of the Internal Revenue Code. 


The report shall identify all recipients and the amount paid to each recipient from Company funds. 


Stockholder Supporting Statement 


As long-term shareholders of FedEx, we support transparency and accountability in corporate spending on political activities. 
Disclosure is in the best interest of the company and its shareholders and critical for compliance with federal ethics laws. 


We recognize that our Company offers a brief policy on corporate political spending on its website that states that the 


company does not contribute corporate funds directly to candidates or ballot issue campaigns. This policy leaves significant gaps, 


however, since it does not address certain avenues of spending, including: 


A list of trade associations to which it belongs and how much of the company’s payments were used for political purposes 


Payments to any other third-pa 


rty organization, including those organized under the section 501(c)(4) of the Internal 


Revenue Service codes, used for political purposes, and 
Independent expenditures that advocate the election or defeat of a candidate. 


Meanwhile, publicly available records show that FedEx contributed at least $4.2 million in corporate funds since 2003. 


(CQ: 


http://moneyline.cg.com and Nati 


FedEx scored just 42.9 out of 100 poin 


near the bottom of a ranking of the 196 largest U.S. companies. This is in comparison with our Company's peer, UPS, which scored 


onal Institute on Money in State Politics: http://Awww.followthemoney.org) In addition, 
ts in the 2013 CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political Accountability and Disclosure, placing it 


94.3 and placed in the top tier of the group. 


tax exempt organizations used for pol 


com 


panies, including UPS, Merck and 


on their websites. 


The proposal asks the Company to disclose all of its political spending, including payments to trade associations and other 


itical purposes. This would bring our Company in line with a growing number of leading 
icrosoft that support political disclosure and accountability and present this information 


The Company's Board and its shareholders need comprehensive disclosure to be able to fully evaluate the political use of 


corporate assets. We urge your support for this critical governance reform." 


2014 Proxy Statement 


69 


PROPOSAL 8 — STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL: POLITICAL DISCLOSURE AND ACCOUNTABILITY 


Board of Directors’ Statement in Opposition 


The Board of Directors and its Nominating & Governance 
Committee have considered this proposal and concluded 
that its adoption would not be in the best interests of our 
stockholders. 


The Board believes it is in the best interests of our stockholders 
for FedEx to be an effective participant in the political process. 
We are subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state 
evels and are involved in a number of legislative initiatives 
across a broad spectrum of policy areas that can have an 
immediate and dramatic effect on our operations. We ethically 
and constructively promote legislative and regulatory actions 
that further the business objectives of FedEx and attempt to 
protect FedEx from unreasonable, unnecessary or burdensome 
egislative or regulatory actions at all levels of government. 


As more fully described in our policy regarding political 
contributions (which is available in the Governance & 
Citizenship section of the Investor Relations page of our 
website at http://investors.fedex.com), we actively participate in 
the political process with the ultimate goal of promoting and 
protecting the economic future of FedEx and our stockholders 
and employees. 


An important part of participating effectively in the political 
process is making prudent political contributions — but only 
where permitted by applicable law. Political contributions of 
all types are subject to extensive governmental regulation and 
public disclosure requirements, and FedEx is fully committed 
to complying with all applicable campaign finance laws. 
For example, corporate contributions are subject to certain 
limitations at the federal level, and we make none. While some 
states allow corporate contributions to candidates or politica 
parties, it is FedEx’s policy not to make such contributions. 
FedEx also does not make corporate contributions to groups 
organized under section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code, other 
than membership dues, event sponsorships, and contributions 
to the organizational committees of the Democratic and 
Republican national party conventions and the annual 
conferences of the Democratic and Republican Governors 
Associations. None of these expenditures are used to support 
any election-related activity or ballot initiatives at the federal, 
state or local level. These limited corporate expenditures are 
approved by the Corporate Vice President of Government 
Affairs, in consultation with appropriate members of FedEx 
senior management. The Executive Vice President and General 
Counsel provides periodic updates to the Board of Directors 
on FedEx’s political activities. FedEx files quarterly reports 
with the United States House of Representatives and Senate 
that disclose a list of our lobbying activities, and these reports 
are publicly available at http://lobbyingdisclosure.house.gov/ 
As a result of these policies and mandatory public disclosure 


70 2014 Proxy Statement 


requirements, the Board has concluded that ample public 
information exists regarding FedEx's political contributions to 
alleviate the concerns cited in this proposal. 


FedEx also provides an opportunity for its employees to 
participate in the political process by joining FedEx’s non- 
partisan political action committee (“FedExPAC”). FedExPAC 
allows ouremployees to pool their financial resources to support 
federal, state and local candidates, political party committees 
and political action committees. The political contributions 
made by FedExPAC are funded entirely by the voluntary 
contributions of our employees. No corporate funds are used. 
Appropriate members of FedEx senior management decide 
which candidates, campaigns and committees FedExPAC will 
support based on a nonpartisan effort to advance and protect 
the interests of FedEx and our stockholders and employees. 
Moreover, FedExPAC's activities are subject to comprehensive 
regulation by the federal government, including detailed 
disclosure requirements, which include monthly reports with 
the Federal Election Commission. These reports are publicly 
available at Attp://fec.gov/ and include an itemization of 
FedExPAC’s receipts and disbursements, including any political 
contributions. 


Our participation in the political process is designed to 
promote and protect the economic future of FedEx and 
our stockholders and employees, and we make political 
contributions and maintain memberships with a variety of 
trade associations expressly for that purpose. Participation as a 
member of these associations comes with the understanding 
that we may not always agree with all of the positions of the 
organizations or other members, but that we believe that the 
associations take many positions and address many issues in a 
meaningful and influential manner and in a way that will work 
to continue to provide strong financial returns. 


We have in place effective reporting and compliance 
procedures to ensure that our political contributions are made 
in accordance with applicable law and we closely monitor the 
appropriateness and effectiveness of the political activities 
undertaken by the most significant trade associations in 
which we are a member. For example, we have policies that 
govern FedEx employee involvement in trade associations and 
accounting procedures that allow us to record and monitor 
these expenditures. 


Finally, the Board believes that the expanded disclosure 
requested in this proposal could place FedEx at a competitive 
disadvantage by revealing its strategies and priorities. Because 
parties with interests adverse to FedEx also participate in the 
political process to their business advantage, any unilateral 
expanded disclosure, above what is required by law and equally 
applicable to all similar parties engaged in public debate, could 


PROPOSAL 8 — STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL: POLITICAL DISCLOSURE AND ACCOUNTABILITY 


benefit those parties while harming the interests of FedEx 
and our stockholders. The Board believes that any reporting 
requirements that go beyond those required under existing 
law should be applicable to all participants in the process, 
rather than FedEx alone (as the proponent requests). 


Vote Required for Approval 


If this proposal is properly presented at the meeting, approval 
requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present 
at the meeting, in person or represented by proxy, and entitled 
to vote. 


In short, we believe that this proposal is duplicative and 
unnecessary, as a comprehensive system of reporting and 
accountability for political contributions already exists. If 
adopted, the proposal would apply only to FedEx and to no 
other company and would cause FedEx to incur undue cost and 
administrative burden, as well as competitive harm, without 
commensurate benefit to our stockholders. Accordingly, we 
recommend that you vote against this proposal. 


YOUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS THAT YOU 
VOTE “AGAINST” THIS PROPOSAL. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


71 


INFORMATION ABOUT THE ANNUAL MEETING 


Who is entitled to vote at the annual meeting? 


The record date for the meeting is August 4, 2014. Only 
stockholders of record at the close of business on that date are 
entitled to vote at the meeting. The only class of stock entitled 
to be voted at the meeting is FedEx common stock. Each 


outstanding share of common stock is entitled to one vote for 
all matters before the meeting. At the close of business on the 
record date there were 283,957,730 shares of FedEx common 
stock outstanding. 


What is the difference between holding shares as a stockholder of 
record and as a beneficial owner? Am | entitled to vote if my shares 


are held in “street name”? 


If your shares are registered in your name with FedEx's transfer 
agent, Computershare Trust Company, N.A., you are the 
“stockholder of record” (or “registered stockholder”) of those 
shares, and these proxy materials have been provided directly 
to you by FedEx. 


If your shares are held by a bank, brokerage firm or other 
nominee, you are considered the “beneficial owner" of shares 
held in “street name." If your shares are held in street name, 
these proxy materials are being forwarded to you by your bank, 
brokerage firm or other nominee (the “bank or broker"), along 
with a voting instruction form. As the beneficial owner, you 
have the right to direct your bank or broker how to vote your 
shares by using the voting instruction form or by following its 
instructions for voting by telephone or on the Internet (if made 
available by your bank or broker with respect to any shares you 
hold in street name), and the bank or broker is required to vote 
your shares in accordance with your instructions. 


If you do not give voting instructions, your broker will 
nevertheless be entitled to vote your shares in its discretion 
on the ratification of the appointment of the independent 
registered public accounting firm (Proposal 3). Absent your 
instructions, the broker will not be permitted, however, to vote 
your shares on the election of directors (Proposal 1), the advisory 
vote to approve named executive officer compensation 
(Proposal 2) or the adoption of the five stockholder proposals 
(Proposals 4 through 8), and your shares will be considered 
“proker non-votes” on those proposals. See “How will broker 
non-votes be treated?” below. 


As the beneficial owner of shares, you are invited to attend the 
annual meeting. If you are a beneficial owner, however, you 
may not vote your shares in person at the meeting unless you 
obtain a legal proxy, executed in your favor, from your bank or 
broker. 


What does it mean if | receive more than one proxy card or voting 


instruction form? 


If you receive more than one proxy card or voting instruction 
form that means your shares are registered differently and are 
held in more than one account. To ensure that all your shares 
are voted, please sign and return by mail all proxy cards and 


voting instruction forms or vote each account over the Internet 
or by telephone (if made available by the bank or broker with 
respect to any shares you hold in street name). 


How many shares must be present to hold the meeting? 


A quorum must be present at the meeting for any business 
to be conducted. The presence at the meeting, in person 
or represented by proxy, of the holders of a majority of the 
shares of common stock outstanding on the record date 


72. 2014 Proxy Statement 


will constitute a quorum. Proxies received but marked as 
abstentions or treated as broker non-votes will be included 
in the calculation of the number of shares considered to be 
present at the meeting. 


INFORMATION ABOUT THE ANNUAL MEETING 


What if a quorum is not present at the meeting? 


If a quorum is not present at the meeting, the holders of a 
majority of the shares entitled to vote at the meeting who are 
present, in person or represented by proxy, or the chairman 
of the meeting, may adjourn the meeting until a quorum is 


How do | vote? 


1, YOU MAY VOTE BY MAIL. Ifyou properly complete, sign and 
date the accompanying proxy card or voting instruction 
form and return it in the enclosed envelope, it will be 
voted in accordance with your instructions. The enclosed 
envelope requires no additional postage if mailed in the 
United States. 


2. YOU MAY VOTE BY TELEPHONE OR ON THE INTERNET. If you 

are a registered stockholder, you may vote by telephone or 
on the Internet by following the instructions included on 
the proxy card. If you vote by telephone or on the Internet, 
you do not have to mail in your proxy card. If you wish to 
attend the meeting in person, however, you will need to 
bring your admission ticket. Internet and telephone voting 
re available 24 hours a day. Votes submitted through the 
Internet or by telephone must be received by 11:59 p.m. 
Eastern time on September 28, 2014. 


fed) 


If you are the beneficial owner of shares held in street name, 
you still may be able to vote your shares electronically by 
telephone or on the Internet. The availability of telephone and 


present. The time and place of the adjourned meeting will be 
announced at the time the adjournment is taken, and no other 
notice will be given. 


Internet voting will depend on the voting process of your bank 
or broker. We recommend that you follow the instructions set 
forth on the voting instruction form provided to you. 


NOTE: If you vote on the Internet, you may elect to 
have next year’s proxy statement and annual report to 
stockholders delivered to you electronically. We strongly 
encourage you to enroll in electronic delivery. It is a cost- 
effective way for us to provide you with proxy materials 
and annual reports. 


3. YOU MAY VOTE IN PERSON AT THE MEETING. If you are a 
registered stockholder and attend the meeting, you may 
deliver your completed proxy card in person. Additionally, 
we will pass out ballots to registered stockholders who 
wish to vote in person at the meeting. If you are a beneficial 
owner of shares held in street name who wishes to vote 
at the meeting, you will need to obtain a legal proxy from 
your bank or broker, bring it with you to the meeting, and 
hand it in with a signed ballot that will be provided to you 
at the meeting. Beneficial owners will not able to vote their 
shares at the meeting without a legal proxy. 


How dol vote my shares held in the FedEx employee stock purchase 


plan or in any FedEx benefit plan? 


if you own shares of FedEx common stock through the FedEx 
employee stock purchase plan or any FedEx or subsidiary 
benefit plan, you can direct the record holder or the plan trustee 
to vote the shares held in your account in accordance with your 
instructions by completing the proxy card and returning it in 
the enclosed envelope or by registering your instructions via 
the Internet or telephone as directed on the proxy card. If 
you register your voting instructions by telephone or on the 
nternet, you do not have to mail in the proxy card. If you wish 


to attend the meeting in person, however, you will need to 
bring the admission ticket attached to the proxy card with 
you. In order to instruct a record holder or plan trustee on the 
voting of shares held in your account, your instructions must 
be received by September 24, 2014. If your voting instructions 
are not received by that date, each plan trustee will vote your 
shares in the same proportion as the plan shares for which 
voting instructions have been received. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


73 


INFORMATION ABOUT THE ANNUAL MEETING 


Who can attend the meeting? 


Only stockholders eligible to vote or their authorized 
representatives will be admitted to the meeting. If you plan 
to attend the meeting, detach and bring with you the stub 
portion of your proxy card, which is marked “Admission 
Ticket.” You also must bring a valid government-issued photo 
identification, such as a driver's license or a passport. If you 
received your proxy materials through the Internet, you should 
follow the instructions provided to print a paper admission 
ticket. 


f your shares are held in street name, you must bring the 
“Admission Ticket" that either accompanies or is the stub 
portion of your voting instruction form. Alternatively, you may 
bring other proof of ownership, such as a brokerage account 


statement, which clearly shows your ownership of FedEx 
common stock as of the record date. In addition, you must 
bring a valid government-issued photo identification, such as a 
driver's license or a passport. 


Security measures will be in place at the meeting to help 
ensure the safety of attendees. Metal detectors similar to 
those used in airports will be located at the entrance to the 
meeting room, and briefcases, handbags and packages 
will be inspected. No cameras or recording devices of any 
kind, or signs, placards, banners or similar materials, may 
be brought into the meeting. Anyone who refuses to comply 
with these requirements will not be admitted. 


Can I change my vote after | submit my proxy? 


Yes, if you are a registered stockholder you may revoke your 
proxy and change your vote prior to the completion of voting 
at the meeting by: 


- submitting a valid, later-dated proxy card or a later-dated 
vote by telephone or on the Internet in a timely manner (the 
latest-dated, properly completed proxy that you submit in 
a timely manner, whether by mail, by telephone or on the 
Internet, will count as your vote); or 

- giving written notice of such revocation to the Secretary of 
FedEx prior to or at the meeting or by voting in person at the 
meeting. 


Will my vote be kept confidential? 


Your attendance at the meeting itself will not revoke your 
proxy unless you give written notice of revocation to the 
Secretary before your proxy is voted or you vote in person at 
the meeting. 


If your shares are held in street name, you should contact your 
bank or broker and follow its procedures for changing your 
voting instructions. You also may vote in person at the meeting 
if you obtain a legal proxy from your bank or broker. 


Yes, your vote will be kept confidential and not disclosed to FedEx unless: 


» required by law; 
- you expressly request disclosure on your proxy; or 
- there is a proxy contest. 


Who will count the votes? 


FedEx’s transfer agent, Computershare Trust Company, N.A., will tabulate and certify the votes. A representative of the transfer 


agent will serve as the inspector of election. 


74 2014 Proxy Statement 


INFORMATION ABOUT THE ANNUAL MEETING 


What if | am a registered stockholder and do not specify how my 
shares are to be voted on my proxy card? 


If you properly submit a proxy but do not indicate any voting 
instructions, your shares will be voted: 


- FOR the election of each of the twelve nominees named in 
this proxy statement to the Board of Directors; 

- FOR the advisory proposal to approve named executive 
officer compensation; 


- FOR the ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP 
as FedEx’s independent registered public accounting firm; 
and 

- AGAINST each of the stockholder proposals. 


Will any other business be conducted at the meeting? 


Certain stockholders have notified us of their intent to propose 
a resolution at the meeting requesting that the Board of 
Directors take the steps necessary to drop or distance ties with 
the NFL Washington Redskins tear, logos and/or stadium 
sponsorship until the franchise changes the team's name (the 
“Floor Proposal”). We have not received notice of, and are not 
aware of, any business to come before the meeting other than 
the agenda items referred to in this proxy statement and the 
possible submission of the Floor Proposal. 


The Floor Proposal is not included in this proxy statement. If the 
Floor Proposal is presented at the meeting, the proxy holders 
will have discretionary voting authority under Rule 14a-4(c) 
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with respect to the 
Floor Proposal and intend to exercise such discretion to vote 
AGAINST such proposal. If any other matter properly comes 
before the stockholders for a vote at the meeting, the proxy 
holders will vote your shares in accordance with their best 
judgment. 


What happens if a director nominee does not receive the required 


majority vote? 


Each nominee is a current director who is standing for 
reelection. Accordingly, each nominee has tendered an 
irrevocable resignation from the Board of Directors that will 
take effect if the nominee does not receive the required 
majority vote and the Board accepts the resignation. If the 
Board accepts the resignation, the nominee will no longer 


serve on the Board of Directors, and if the Board rejects the 
resignation, the nominee will continue to serve until his or her 
successor has been duly elected and qualified or until his or 
her earlier disqualification, death, resignation or removal. See 
“Corporate Governance Matters — Majority-Voting Standard 
for Director Elections” above. 


What happens if a director nominee is unable to stand for election? 


If a director nominee named in this proxy statement is unable to stand for election, the Board of Directors may either reduce the 
number of directors to be elected or select a substitute nominee. If a substitute nominee is selected, the proxy holders may vote 


your shares for the substitute nominee. 


What happens if a stockholder proposal is approved? 


Approval of a stockholder proposal would merely serve as a recommendation to the Board to take the necessary steps to implement 


such proposal. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


75 


INFORMATION ABOUT THE ANNUAL MEETING 


How will abstentions be treated? 


Abstentions will have no effect on the election of directors (Proposal 1). For each of the other proposals, abstentions will be treated 
as shares present for quorum purposes and entitled to vote, so they will have the same practical effect as votes against the proposal. 


How will broker non-votes be treated? 


If your shares are held in street name, in order to ensure your 
shares are voted in the way you would like, you must provide 
voting instructions to your bank or broker by the deadline 
provided in the materials you receive from your bank or broker. 


If you hold your shares in street name and you do not instruct 
your broker how to vote your shares, your broker may vote your 
shares in its discretion on the ratification of the appointment of 
the independent registered public accounting firm (Proposal 3). 
Your shares will be treated as broker non-votes on all the other 
proposals, including the election of directors (Proposal 1). 


Will the meeting be webcast? 


Yes, you are invited to visit the News & Events section of the 
Investor Relations page of our website (http://investors.fedex. 
com) at 8:00 a.m. Central time on September 29, 2014, to 
access the live webcast of the meeting. An archived copy of 


76 2014 Proxy Statement 


Broker non-votes will be treated as shares present for quorum 
purposes, but not entitled to vote. Thus, absent voting 
instructions from you, your broker may not vote your shares 
on the election of directors (Proposal 1), the advisory vote to 
approve named executive officer compensation (Proposal 2) 
or the adoption of the five stockholder proposals (Proposals 4 
through 8). A broker non-vote with respect to these proposals 
will not affect their outcome. 


the webcast will be available on our website for at least one 
year. The information on FedEx's website, however, is not 
incorporated by reference in, and does not form part of, this 
proxy statement. 


ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 


Proxy Solicitation 


FedEx will bear all costs of this proxy solicitation. In addition 
to soliciting proxies by this mailing, our directors, officers and 
regular employees may solicit proxies personally or by mail, 
telephone, facsimile or other electronic means, for which 
solicitation they will not receive any additional compensation. 
FedEx will reimburse brokerage firms, custodians, fiduciaries 


Householding 


We have adopted a procedure approved by the SEC called 
“householding.”. Under this procedure, stockholders of 
record who have the same address and last name and do 
not participate in electronic delivery will receive only one 
copy of this proxy statement and the 2014 Annual Report to 
Stockholders, unless contrary instructions have been received 
from one or more of these stockholders. This procedure will 
reduce our printing costs and postage fees. 


Stockholders who participate in householding will continue to 
receive separate proxy cards. Also, householding will not in any 
way affect dividend check mailings. 


If you are eligible for householding, but you and other 
stockholders of record with whom you share an address 
currently receive multiple copies of our annual report and 
proxy statement, or if you hold stock in more than one account, 
and in either case you wish to receive only a single copy of 
our annual report and proxy statement for your household, 


and other nominees for their out-of-pocket expenses in 
forwarding solicitation materials to beneficial owners upon our 
request. FedEx has retained Morrow & Co., LLC, 470 West Ave., 
Stamford, CT 06902, to assist in the solicitation of proxies for 
a fee of $12,500 plus reimbursement of certain disbursements 
and expenses. 


please contact our transfer agent at Computershare Investor 
Services (for overnight mail delivery: 211 Quality Circle, Suite 
210, College Station, Texas 77845; for regular mail delivery: 
P.O. Box 30170, College Station, Texas 77842; by telephone: in 
the U.S. or Canada, 1-800-446-2617; outside the U.S. or Canada, 
1-781-575-2723). 


If you participate in householding and wish to receive a 
separate copy of this proxy statement and the 2014 Annual 
Report to Stockholders, or if you do not wish to participate 
in householding and prefer to receive separate copies of 
future annual reports and proxy statements, please contact 
Computershare as indicated above. A separate copy of this 
proxy statement and the 2014 Annual Report to Stockholders 
will be delivered promptly upon request. 


Beneficial owners of shares held in street name can request 
information about householding from their banks, brokerage 
firms or other holders of record. 


2014 Proxy Statement 


77 


STOCKHOLDER PROPOSALS FOR 


2015 ANNUAL MEETING 


Stockholder proposals intended to be presented at FedEx’s 2015 
annual meeting must be received by FedEx no later than April 20, 
2015, to be eligible for inclusion in FedEx’s proxy statement and 
form of proxy for next year’s meeting. Proposals should be 
addressed to FedEx Corporation, Attention: Corporate Secretary, 
942 South Shady Grove Road, Memphis, Tennessee 38120. 


For any proposal that is not submitted for inclusion in 
next year's proxy statement (as described in the preceding 
paragraph), but is instead sought to be presented directly at 
the 2015 annual meeting, including nominations of director 
candidates, FedEx's Bylaws require stockholders to give 
advance notice of such proposals. The required notice, which 
must include the information and documents set forth in the 
Bylaws, must be given no more than 120 days and no less than 
90 days in advance of the anniversary date of the immediately 
preceding annual meeting. Accordingly, with respect to our 
2015 annual meeting of stockholders, our Bylaws require notice 


78 2014 Proxy Statement 


to be provided to FedEx Corporation, Attention: Corporat 
Secretary, 942 South Shady Grove Road, Memphis, Tennesse 
38120, as early as June 1, 2015, but no later than July 1, 2015. 
Our Bylaws are available under “Policies and Guidelines” in the 
Governance & Citizenship section of the Investor Relations 
page of our website at http://investors.fedex.com. Except as 
otherwise provided by law, the chairman of the meeting will 
declare out of order and disregard any nomination or other 
business proposed to be brought before the meeting by a 
stockholder that is not made in accordance with our Bylaws. 


ec 
e 


By order of the Board of Directors, 


O*-. ? Vales 


Christine P. Richards 
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 


APPENDIX A COMPANIES IN EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
COMPARISON SURVEY GROUP 


3M Company 

7-Eleven, Inc. 

Abbott Laboratories 
Accenture plc 

Adecco S.A. 

Alcoa Inc. 

Alcon Laboratories, Inc. 
Amazon.com, Inc. 

American Broadcasting Company 
Arrow Electronics, Inc. 
Ascension Health 

AstraZeneca PLC 

BAE Systems plc 

Bayer AG 

Bayer Business & Technology Services 
Bayer CropScience 

Bayer HealthCare 

Bayer MaterialScience 

Bechtel Systems & Infrastructure, Inc. 
Best Buy Co., Inc. 

BG US Services, Inc. 

The Boeing Company 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 
Bunge Limited 

C&S Wholesale Grocers 
Caterpillar Inc. 

Chrysler Group LLC 

CHS Inc. 

Cisco Systems, Inc. 

The Coca-Cola Company 
Comcast Corporation 
Compass Group PLC 
ConocoPhillips 


Continental Automotive Systems US, Inc. 


Deere & Company 

Delhaize America, LLC 

Dell Inc. 

Delta Air Lines, Inc. 

The DIRECTV Group, Inc. 

The Dow Chemical Company 

E. |. du Pont de Nemours and Company 
Eli Lilly and Company 

EMC Corporation 

Emerson Electric Co. 

Enterprise Products Partners L.P. 


Ericsson Television 

Express Scripts, Inc. 

Fiat Industrial S.p.A. 

Fluor Corporation 

Fox Networks Group, Inc. 
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. 
General Dynamics Corporation 
GlaxoSmithKline ple 

The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company 
Google Inc. 

CA Holdings, Inc. 

ealthcare Services Group, Inc. 
ess Corporation 

offman-La Roche Inc. 

ome Box Office, Inc. 
oneywell International Inc. 
Hyundai Motor America 
Iberdrola Renewables, LLC 
IKEA International A/S 

Intel Corporation 

International Paper Company 
Johnson & Johnson 

Johnson Controls, Inc. 

Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. 
KDDI Corporation 
Kimberly-Clark Corporation 
KPMG LLP 

Kraft Foods Group, Inc. 

Lenovo Group Limited 
Lockheed Martin Corporation 
Loreal 

LSG Sky Chefs 

LyondellBasell 

acy's, Inc. 

agna International Inc. 
anpowerGroup Inc. 

ars, Incorporated 

cDonald’s Corporation 

erck & Co,, Inc. 

icrosoft Corporation 

urphy Oil Corporation 

ews Corporation 

IKE, Inc. 

okia Corporation 

orthrop Grumman Corporation 


H 
H 
H 
H 
H 
H 


2014 Proxy Statement A-1 


Appendix A Companies in Executive Compensation Comparison Survey Group 


Novartis Consumer Health, Inc. 


Occidental Petroleum Corporation 


Orange Business Services 
PepsiCo, Inc. 

Pfizer Inc. 

Philip Morris International Inc. 
Philips International BY. 
Publix Super Markets, Inc. 
Raytheon Company 

Ricoh Americas Corporation 
Rio Tinto plc 

Rite Aid Corporation 

Roche Diagnostics Corporation 
Safeway Inc. 

Sandoz 

Sanofi 

Schlumberger Limited 
Siemens Corporation 

Sodexo 

Sprint Nextel Corporation 
Staples, Inc. 

Sunoco, Inc. 


A-2 2014 Proxy Statement 


SUPERVALU INC. 

Sysco Corporation 

Target Corporation 

Tech Data Corporation 

Telvent 

Tesoro Corporation 

Time Inc. 

Time Warner Inc. 

The TJX Companies, Inc. 
T-Mobile US, Inc. 

Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. 
Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation 
Tyson Foods, Inc. 

Unilever United States, Inc. 
United Continental Holdings, Inc. 
United Parcel Service, Inc. 

U.S. Foodservice, Inc. 

United Technologies Corporation 
The Walt Disney Company 
Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. 
Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company 

Xerox Corporation 


® 
Corporation 


PORTANT ANNUAL MEETING INFORMATION 


Using a black ink pen, mark your votes with an X as shown in this example. 


Please do not write outside the designated areas. 


Annual Meeting Proxy Card/Sign and Date on Reverse Side 


Annual Meeting Admission Ticket 


Electronic Voting Instructions 


Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week! 


Instead of mailing your proxy, you may choose one of the voting 
methods outlined below to vote your proxy. 


VALIDATION DETAILS ARE LOCATED BELOW IN THE TITLE BAR. 


Proxies submitted by the Internet or telephone must be received 
by 11:59 p.m. Eastern time on September 28, 2014. 


Vote by Internet 


@ Go to www.investorvote.com/FEDX 


@ Orscan the QR code with your smartphone 


e@ Follow the steps outlined on the secure website 


Vote by telephone 
@ Call toll free 1-800-652-VOTE (8683) within the USA, US 
territories & Canada on a touch-tone telephone 


e@ Follow the instructions provided by the recorded message 


IF YOU HAVE NOT VOTED VIA THE INTERNET OR TELEPHONE, FOLD ALONG THE PERFORATION, DETACH AND RETURN THE BOTTOM PORTION IN THE ENCLOSED ENVELOPE. 


The Board of Directors recommends a vote FOR each of the listed nominees and FOR Proposals 2 and 3. 


1. 


EE The Board of Directors recommends a vote AGAINST Proposals 4 through 8. 


4. Stockholder proposal regarding proxy access for shareholders. 


6. Stockholder proposal regarding hedging and pledging policy. 


Election of Directors: For Against Abstain 


01 - James L. Barksdale oO | | 02 - John A. Edwardson 


04-KimbertyA Jabal LJ] [J CJ 05 - Shirley Ann Jackson 


07 - R. Brad Martin | oO | 08 - Joshua Cooper Ramo 
10-Frederickw. smith [LJ] [] ({] 11 - David P. Steiner 


For 


compensation. 


For 


8. Stockholder proposal regarding political disclosure and 


Against Abstain 


O OU 
OO aU 
OO QO 
OO U 


Against Abstain 
Advisory vote to approve named executive officer oO | oO 


Against Abstain 


OO OU 
O oO OU 


accountability. O O O 


For Against Abstain 
03 - Marvin R. Ellison 


06 - Gary W. Loveman 


09 - Susan C. Schwab 


OOOO 


12 - Paul S. Walsh 


For Against Abstain 


3. Ratification of independent registered public accounting firm. | Ol Ol 


For Against Abstain 


5. Stockholder proposal regarding simple majority vote-counting. 


7. Stockholder proposal regarding tax payments on restricted stock | oO oO 


Admission Ticket 


FedEx Corporation 
Annual Meeting of Stockholders 
Monday, September 29, 2014 
8:00 a.m. local time 
FedEx Express World Headquarters 
Auditorium 
3670 Hacks Cross Road, Building G, Memphis, TN 38125 


If you wish to attend the annual meeting in person, you will need to bring this Admission Ticket with you. 


Please present this Admission Ticket and a valid government-issued photo identification (such as a driver's license or a passport) for admission to 
the meeting. 


Security measures will be in place at the meeting to help ensure the safety of attendees. Metal detectors similar to those used in airports will be 
located at the entrance to the meeting room, and briefcases, handbags and packages will be inspected. No cameras or recording devices of any 
kind, or signs, placards, banners or similar materials, may be brought into the meeting. Anyone who refuses to comply with these requirements will 
not be admitted. 


This Admission Ticket is not transferable. 


IF YOU HAVE NOT VOTED VIA THE INTERNET OR TELEPHONE, FOLD ALONG THE PERFORATION, DETACH AND RETURN THE BOTTOM PORTION IN THE ENCLOSED ENVELOPE. 


Proxy Solicited on Behalf of the Board of Directors of FedEx Corporation for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders, September 29, 2014 


The undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Christine P. Richards and Alan B. Graf, Jr., and each of them, his or her true and lawful agents and proxies, each with full power of 
substitution, to represent the undersigned and to vote all of the shares of FedEx Corporation common stock of the undersigned at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of FedEx to be held in 
the auditorium at the FedEx Express World Headquarters, 3670 Hacks Cross Road, Building G, Memphis, Tennessee 38125, on Monday, September 29, 2014, at 8:00 a.m. local time, and at 
any postponements or adjournments thereof, on Proposals 1 through 8 as specified on the reverse side hereof (with discretionary authority under Proposal 1 to vote for a substitute nominee if 
any nominee is unable to stand for election) and on such other matters as may properly come before said meeting. This card also constitutes voting instructions for any shares held for the 
undersigned in the FedEx employee stock purchase plan or in any benefit plan of FedEx Corporation or its subsidiaries. If you wish to instruct a record holder or plan trustee on the voting of 
shares held in your account, your instructions must be received by September 24, 2014. If no direction is given, the plan trustee will vote the shares held in your account in the same 
proportion as votes received from other plan participants. 


This proxy, when properly signed, dated and returned, will be voted as specified by you. If no direction is made, this proxy will be voted (and voting instructions given) FOR each 
of the director nominees, FOR Proposals 2 and 3, and AGAINST Proposals 4 through 8. The Board of Directors recommends that you vote FOR each of the director nominees, 
FOR Proposals 2 and 3, and AGAINST Proposals 4 through 8. In their discretion, the proxy holders are authorized to vote on such other matters as may properly come before the 
meeting or any postponements or adjournments thereof. 


You are encouraged to specify your choices by marking the appropriate boxes on the reverse side, but you need not mark any boxes if you wish to vote in accordance with the Board of 
Directors’ recommendations. Ms. Richards and Mr. Graf cannot vote your shares unless you sign, date and return this card or vote on the Internet or by telephone. 


If you vote by the Internet or telephone, please DO NOT mail back this proxy card. If you wish to attend the annual meeting in person, however, you will need to bring the 
Admission Ticket attached to this proxy card with you. 


NOTE: If you vote on the Internet, you may elect to have next year’s proxy statement and annual report to stockholders delivered to you electronically. We strongly encourage 
you to enroll in electronic delivery. It is a cost-effective way for us to send you proxy materials and annual reports. 


Non-Voting Items 

Change of Address — Please print your new address below. Comments — Please print your comments below. Mark this box if you would 
like your name to be | 
disclosed with your vote and 
comments, if any. 


BP] Authorized Signatures — This section must be completed for your vote to be counted — Date and Sign Below. 

The signer hereby revokes all proxies previously given by the signer to vote at said meeting or at any postponements or adjournments thereof. 

NOTE: Please sign exactly as name appears on this card. Joint owners should each sign. When signing as attorney, officer, executor, administrator, trustee or guardian, please give full title as 
such. 

Date (mm/dd/yyyy) — Please print date below. Signature 1 — Please keep signature within the box. Signature 2 — Please keep signature within the box. 


a a | es ee 


