Social Network Analysis and Mining manuscript No. 

(will be inserted by the editor) 



Using Model-based Overlapping Seed Expansion to 
detect highly overlapping community structure. 

Aaron F. McDaid • Neil J. Hurley 



Received: date / Accepted: date 



Abstract As research into community finding in social networks progresses, there is 
a need for algorithms capable of detecting overlapping community structure. Many al- 
gorithms have been proposed in recent years that are capable of assigning each node to 
more than a single community. The performance of these algorithms tends to degrade 
when the ground-truth contains a more highly overlapping community structure, with 
nodes assigned to more than two communities. Such highly overlapping structure is 
likely to exist in many social networks, such as Facebook friendship networks. In this 
paper we present a scalable algorithm, MOSES, based on a statistical model of commu- 
nity structure, which is capable of detecting highly overlapping community structure, 
especially when there is variance in the number of communities each node is in. In 
evaluation on synthetic data MOSES is found to be superior to existing algorithms, es- 
pecially at high levels of overlap. We demonstrate MOSES on real social network data 
by analyzing the networks of friendship links between students of five US universities. 

Keywords Social networks analysis • Statistical modelling • Community finding • 
Computer science 



1 Introduction 

In this paper we introduce MOSES, a Model-based Overlapping Seed ExpanSion^ 
algorithm, for finding overlapping communities in a graph. The algorithm is designed 
to work well in applications, such as social network analysis, in which the graph is 
expected to have a complex, highly-overlapping community structure. 

This research was supported by Science Foundation Ireland (SFI) Grant No. 08/SRC/I1407. 
Aaron McDaid 

Clique Research Cluster, UCD Dublin, Ireland 
E-mail: aaronmcdaid@gmail.com 

Neil Hurley 

Clique Research Cluster, UCD Dublin, Ireland 
E-mail: neil.hurley@ucd.ie 

1 Our C++ implementation of MOSES is available at http://sites.google.com/site/ 
aaronmcdaid/moses. 



2 




Fig. 1 Four communities of a single user (the node in black) of Facebook, as determined by 
MOSES. Two other users (red) have been assigned to both the blue and purple communities. 
A typical user, like many of those in this diagram, will be a member of several communities, 
which we have not attempted to visualize here. See section 5.7 



Many of the algorithms for finding communities in graphs have been limited to 
partitioning s, where each node is assigned to exactly one community. While there 
are still very many open questions about the basic structure of empirical graphs, it 
is difficult to accept that a partition is an appropriate description of the complete 
community structure in a graph. Reid (2010) show that partitions will break many 
large cliques in empirical networks, and hence we cannot assume that partitioning will 
preserve much community structure. 

In recent years, many algorithms have been proposed to detect overlapping commu- 
nities. We repeat experiments similar to those carried out in Lee et al. (2010), which 
show that many such algorithms are only capable of detecting weakly overlapping com- 
munity structure, where a typical node is in just two communities. If we are to be able 
to make reasonable inferences about the community structure in empirical graphs, we 
need algorithms capable of detecting highly overlapping communities, if only so that 
we can credibly rule out highly overlapping community structure for a given graph. 

Leskovec et al. (2008) claim that large scale community structure may not exist in 
typical empirical graphs, by showing that it is difficult or impossible to find subgraphs 
with good conductance, a measure comparing the number of edges inside a cluster to 
the number of edges which travel from inside to the outside of a cluster. However, in 
this paper we will show that such structure may indeed exist, and be detectable, even 
when the conductance suggests otherwise. 

The method presented here is similar in spirit to many existing algorithms, in that 
a global objective function is defined to assign a score to each proposed community as- 
signment. The algorithm proceeds by using simple heuristics to search for communities 



3 



in the graph, greedily finding a (local) maximum of our objective function. This allows 
for scalability as the MOSES objective function can be efficiently updated throughout. 

1.1 Structure of this paper 

We first briefly consider related work in the field on overlapping community finding. 
Then, in sections 3 and 4 we introduce our objective function and describe the algo- 
rithm. 

Next, we consider the network community profile of Leskovec et al. (2008) and 
show, perhaps surprisingly, that large values of conductance are not incompatible with 
the existence of strong, easily detectable, community structure. We conclude with an 
analysis of a Facebook friendship network from five US universities. 

Then, there is an evaluation of the algorithm with two types of synthetic benchmark 
data, the LFR benchmarks proposed in Lancichinetti et al. (2008), and a second model 
that allows for greater variance in the community overlap structure. 

Notation In this paper we consider the community assignment problem on an un- 
weighted, undirected graph G, with vertices V and edges E and no self-loops. Boldcase 
letters, such as Z, z denote column vectors with the uppercase Z referring to a random 
vector variable and the lowercase z referring to a particular realization of Z. We use 
capital Roman letters, such as Z to denote random matrices and their realizations. The 
components of random matrices are denoted by the corresponding uppercase letter e.g. 
Zij, while the components of matrix realizations are denoted by the corresponding 
lowercase letter e.g. Zij . The notation used in the description of the MOSES model is 
summarized in table 1. 

2 Related Work 

While there is no single generally accepted definition of a community within a social 
network, most definitions try to encapsulate the concept as a sub-graph that has few 
external connections to nodes outside the sub-graph, relative to its number of internal 
connections. We find the following distinctions useful in characterizing commonly-used 
community definitions: 

1. Structural communities: A deterministic set of properties or constraints that a 
sub-graph must satisfy in order to be considered a community is given and thus 
a decision can be made on whether any particular sub-graph is, or is not, a com- 
munity, e.g. we may consider all maximal cliques to be communities. Thus finding 
such communities is a process of searching the graph for all sub-graph instances 
that satisfy the defining properties. 

2. Evaluated communities: Every sub-graph is considered to be a community to a 
certain extent, given by the value of a community fitness function. The fitness 
function may be local or global in nature and sometimes is associated with the 
entire community decomposition rather than with each single community. 

3. Algorithmic communities: As pointed out in Fortunato (2010), often there is no ex- 
plicit definition of a community, other than as the sub-graphs that result from some 
community extraction algorithm. A good example of this is the edge-betweenness 
algorithm of Newman & Girvan (2004). 



4 



Table 1 Basic definitions. In this table, (0, 1) means a real number between zero and one. 
{0, 1} means the set with just two elements, zero and one. 





Range 


Description 


N 


N 


Number of vertices in G. 




loa}JvxJv 


Adjacency matrix of a simple, undirected, unweighted 






graph, G. Xi^i = 0, Xij = Xji 


Q 


N 


Number of communities. Sometimes called K in related 






work. 


a 


(0,1)« 


Vector of length Q giving the memberships proportions. 






For partitioning, J2i<i<Q = 1 




|0^1}iVxJV 


Community assignment matrix, one if node i in commu- 






nity q, zero otherwise. 


TT 


(0,l)QxQ 


Connection probabilities between pairs of clusters. Most 






models use a different or simplified form. In MOSES, pin 






and Po take the place of n. 


MOSES-specific: 


Po 


(0,1) 


Probability that two nodes connect, independent of com- 






munity structure. 


Pin 


(0,1) 


Probability that two nodes connect, due to their assign- 






ment to a common community. 


Qz 


N 


Number of non-empty communities observed in a commu- 






nity assignment Cz. 


C. 




A community assignment corresponding to an assignment 






matrix z. 


m 


N 


Mean number of communities in G. 


rig 


N 


The number of nodes in community q. It is a function of 




N 


z. 

Number of communities in Z shared between node i and 




node j. 



The last decade has seen a lot of publications on the topic of community detection in 
networks. For a good review, see Fortunato (2010). Much work has concentrated on 
modularity maximization algorithms, that produce partitions of graphs in which each 
node is assigiKxl to a single community. Modularity defines evaluated comrrmnities, 
where the community fitness is related to its number of internal edges relative to its 
expected number in a particular 'null model'. While modularity maximization results 
in a decomposition of the entire network into a partition of communities, in fact, a 
more general view of community-finding is from the node perspective as community 
assignment, i.e. the task is to assign each node in the graph to the communities (if 
any) it belongs to and we may describe algorithms for community-finding as community 
assignment algorithms (CAAs). 

A number of CAAs that allow overlapping communities have emerged since 2005 
Lee et al. (2010); Palla et al. (2005); Clauset (2005); Gregory (2007, 2009b, a); Mishral 
et al. (2007); Laricichinetti et al. (2009); Baumes et al. (2005); Shen et al. (2009); Ahn 
et al. (2010). For example GCE Lee et al. (2010), LFM Lancichinetti et al. (2009) and 
Iterative Scan (IS) Baumes et al. (2005) find evaluated communities. Each uses various 
local iterative methods to expand (or shrink) proposed communities such that some 
function of the density of the communities is maximized, but the decision on whether a 
proposed community is accepted or not depends on somewhat arbitrary criteria. At the 
other end of the spectrum, the Clique Percolation Method (CPM) of Palla et al. (2005) 
has proved very influential and is essentially a structural community-finding algorithm, 
where communities are defined as sub-graphs consisting of a set of connected A;-cliques. 



5 



With the recent release of the LFR synthetic benchmark graphs Lancichinctti & 
Fortunate (2009), it has become possible to more thoroughly explore the performance 
of these different approaches. Studies on this benchmark data have illustrated that 
performance of the algorithms generally degrades as nodes are shared between larger 
numbers of communities Lee et al. (2010). It is our contention that real- world social 
communities can in fact contain rich overlapping structures like those of the overlapping 
LFR benchmarks and that it is necessary to develop CAAs that perform well when 
on average each node is assigned to multiple communities. There is need for further 
extensions of these synthetic benchmarks as, for example, the current LFR model places 
each overlapping node into exactly the same number of communities. 

Model-based CAAs have the advantage of being based on a model which can explain 
the rationale of the communities found, thus avoiding the often arbitrary criteria which 
are used in many overlapping CAAs. We develop a scalable, model-based CAA that 
performs well on highly overlapping community structures. In the next section, we 
review the model-based network algorithms that are most relevant to our approach. 



2.1 Model-Based Community-Finding 

In model-based community-finding, the graph G is considered to be a realization of 
a statistical model. Assuming unweighted, undirected graphs, with no self-loops, the 
graph edges are represented by a random symmetric adjacency matrix X such that 
Xij = Xji = 1 if an edge connecting nodes i and j exists and zero otherwise. Statistical 
network models are reviewed in Goldenberg et al. (2009). Of particular interest in the 
context of the work presented here is the stochastic hlockmodel introduced in Nowicki 
& Snijders (2001) which is also referred to as the Erdos-Renyi Mixture Model for 
Graphs (ERMG) in Daudin et al. (2008). We will use our our notation, as defined in 
table 1, when describing the related work. 

The ERMG assumes a partitioning of the graph into communities, so that commu- 
nity assignments can be described by the vector z — (zi, . . . , zn)"^ , where Zi — q if 
node i is assigned to community q. The graph edges are assumed independent given the 
node assignments z, and drawn from a Bernoulli distribution with connection probar- 
bility dependent on the community assignments of the end-points: 

PiXij = 1|Z = Z) = TT{Zi, Zj) = -KziZj ■ 

Assuming that TTqr = iTrq, this leads to the conditional probability for X given Z, 

JV JV 

P(X|Z,n) = n n 7r,%(l-7r,,,,.)^'""^^\ (1) 
i=ij=i+i 

where 11 is the Q X Q matrix of inter-community connection probabilities {T^qr}. Each 
component of Z is modelled as being a single draw from a multinomial (1; a); where 
a is a vector of length Q describing the memberships probabilities for each cluster. 

Ultimately, the goal is to predict the unobserved community assignments z. In this 
section we will use parameter to refer to quantities such as 11 and a which describe 
connection probabilities and cluster membership proportions, and we will not refer to 



6 



z as a parameter. As discussed in Nowicki & Snijders (2001) parameter estimation is 
difficult as the observed likefihood: 

P(X|a,n)= PO^,Z, = z\Il,a) 

2g{l,...,Q}« 

cannot be simpfified and the Expectation Maximization (EM) algorithm requires, 
among other things, the conditional P(Z|X, a^*\ 11^*^) when calculating the next esti- 
mates a , which is also intractable within these types of models. 

In Daudin et al. (2008) a variational approach is taken to parameter estimation. In 
Zanghi et al. (2007) a heuristic algorithm is used to quickly attempt an approximate 
maximization of the complete-data log-likelihood, P(a;, z\a. tt), searching over (z, tt, q) 
with X fixed equal to the graph which has been observed. An online estimation approach 
is used where the parameters, and cluster assignments, are incrementally updated using 
the current value of the parameters and new observations. The algorithm is essentially 
a greedy max;imization strategy. The ERMG assumes a fixed number of communities. 
To decide between different values of Q, both Daudin et al. (2008) and Zanghi et al. 
(2007) use an Integrated Classification Likelihood (ICL) criterion to decide between 
competing models. 

Nobile & Fcarnside (2007) integrate out Q, creating a posterior density mass func- 
tion defined over all clusterings, regardless of the number of clusters. This means that 
model selection, such as the BIC and ICL, are unnecessary. This allocation sampler is 
presented in terms of gaussian mixture models, but this technique is suitable in variety 
of contexts, including network modelling and for overlapping clusters. 

The MOSES model is similar to Nowicki & Snijders (2001), in that the parameters 
such as Q and n are treated as nuisance parameters to be integrated out. They do not 
integrate out Q. They propose a Gibbs sampler to sample from {z,a,7T), effectively 
allowing them to numerically integrate out a and tt. Nobile & Fearnside (2007) point 
out that this can often be analytically integrated out, allowing the algorithm to focus 
on estimating the quantities of interest, which are typically the z and Q. 



2.1.1 Overlapping Stochastic Block Modeling 

In Latouche et al. (2009), the standard ERMG is expanded to allow for overlapping 
communities and the new model is named the Overlapping Stochastic Blockmodel 
(OSBM). Now the community assignments of a node i may be described by a vector 
Zi = (Zii, . . . , Ziq)^, such that 

^ ( 1 node i in community q 
\Q otherwise. 

The full latent structure may be described by the N x Q matrix Z, with i*^ column 
Zi. As with the ERMG, it is assumed that all the edges are independent, given Z and 
drawn from a Bernoulli distribution, with the probability 7r(zi, zj) that an edge exists 
dependent on the (vector) community assignments Zi and Zj of its end-points, leading 
to a joint distribution of the same form (1), with iVziZj replaced by 7r(zi, Zj). 

The authors assume that the connection probabilities, 7r(zi,Zj) can be written as 
sigmoid functions of a quadratic form z^Az^ for a parameter matrix A. In a natural 



7 



extension of the relationship between z and a used in the (non-overlapping) block 
models, they choose a prior distribution on Z of the form: 



for parameters (Xq G [0, 1]. The parameters of the model are estimated using a varia^ 
tional strategy similar to that used in Daudin et al. (2008). 

While the models of Nowicki & Snijders (2001) and Latouche et al. (2009) allow 
for a large number of parameters, in practice, when evaluating on real datasets, the 
parameter space is usually restricted to a much smaller number. In Latouche et al. 
(2009) for instance, this is done by considering restricted forms of the matrix A, with 
only two free parameters. The community-finding algorithm of Latouche et al. (2009) is 
shown to out-perform the Clique Percolation Method of Palla et al. (2005) on synthetic 
data. 

While our model is another form of overlapping SBM, our general approach shares 
much in common with Nobile & Fearnside (2007) as we have integrated out Q, the 
number of clusters, and a allowing our algorithm to search over the space of all clus- 
terings, regardless of the number of communities. And our estimation method could be 
compared with Zanghi et al. (2007), in that it is another method using a fast heuristic 
algorithm to greedily search over z. 



3 The MOSES Model 

The model that drives MOSES is essentially an OSBM but with some important dif- 
ferences to that presented in Latouche et al. (2009). In particular: 

1. The connection probabilities 7r(zi,Zj) take a different form to those used in La^ 
touche et al. (2009); 

2. The prior takes into account that community assignments that differ only by a 
relabeling of the communities are equivalent; 

3. A distribution is placed on the number of communities Q, allowing Q to be inte- 
grated from the prior, in the manner or Nobile & Fearnside (2007). 

We elaborate on these differences in the following: 



3.1 Connection Probabilities 

Let TTgr G [0, 1] represent the probability that a node in community q connects to a 
node in community r and let po denote a general underlying probability that nodes 

connect, independent of community structure. Assume that these probabilities are all 
mutually independent. Hence, the probability that an edge does not exist is given by: 



N Q 



P{Z\cx) = llllal"-{l-aq) 



(2) 



i=l 9=1 



P{Xij = 0|Z,n) = 1 - 7r(z,, zj) 



(3) 



Q Q 



=(i-po)n 11(1 




q=l r=q 



8 



In practice, wo use IT = diag(pin). Thus, there is a single connection probabihty 
Pin of within-community connections and there is no tendency for inter-community 
connections, other than the general tendency of nodes to connect represented by Po- 
With this simplification, (3) becomes, 

P{Xij = 0\Z,pin,Po) = (1 - Po)(l - Pinf^^'''^ . 

where sz{i,j) is a count of the number of communities assigned to both node i and 
node J in Z. 

It is also possible to imagine a large community containing every node, which allows 
one to treat Po as being the internal connection probability of that community. This 
can then be used in the appropriate cell of an augmented 11 matrix. 



3.2 Prior on Z 

Assuming a uniform distribution on the parameters {ai, . . . ag} in (2) and integrating 
over them, we obtain a prior of the form 



where Uq is the number of nodes assigned to community q. Furthermore, while there 

arc 2^*^ possible values for Z, any permutation of the columns of Z results in the same 
community assignment, with just a different labeling on the communities. The 2''^'^ 
possible matrices can be partitioned into equivalence classes of matrices that differ 
only in a permutation of their columns. Let Cz{Q) be the size of the equivalence class 
that Z belongs to. Using Cz to denote the community assignment corresponding to the 
Cz{Q) matrices in this equivalence class, wc note that P(Cz\Q) ~ Cz(Q)P(7j\Q). Let 
Qz be the number of non-empty communities observed in Z. If the actual number of 
communities is Qz + k, then Z should contain k columns of all zeros. It follows that 

cz{Qz + k)=\^'^'']cz{Q.), (4) 

since the k communities with no nodes assigned to them must be allocated k labels 
out of the Qz + k possible community labels. EXirthermore, 

P{Z\Qz+k)= ^^^^^^ PiZ\Qz). (5) 

Now, choosing a Poisson distribution for Q with mean value m, using (4)and (5), and 
summing over Q to obtain a prior on Cz that is independent oi Q, we get 

p{Cz) = Yl = Q^ + ^y-JTr^nAr 

fe=0 Wz+fcJ- 



9 



Finally, if there arc p unique non-zero columns in Z, which occur with multiplicity 
Oi, . . . , Op, such that Qz = Yl^=i ^k, we note that Cz{Qz) is the multinomial coeffi- 
cient: 

oi! . . . Op! 

With (6) and (1), letting jC{.) = logP(.), it is now possible to write down the 
complete data log likelihood as 

F{C.,Pin,Po) = C{X\Z,Po,Pin) + jC{C.) . (7) 

Strictly speaking, this might not be considered the complete data, as we have integrated 
out a in a Bayesian manner. For our purposes however, z,po,pin will be referred to as 
the complete data. 

As methods such as Daudin et al. (2008) that attempt to find the maximum likeli- 
hood estimators from the observed likelihood i2(X) are too computationally expensive 
for large-scale networks, and because we are more interested in estimating the cluster- 
ing than in estimating the paremeters, we follow an approach similar to Zanghi et al. 
(2007) and seek the (Cz,Pin,Po) that maximizes (7). Majcimization of the complete 
data likelihood has been shown to result in good clusterings in practice in the context 
of Gaussian mixture models. In the remainder of the paper, we will simply write F(Cz), 
rather than F{Cz,Pin,Po), to emphasize our primary objective of finding an optimal 

Wc have integrated out a, the cluster membership proportions. If it was easy to 
analytically integrate out pin and Po, giving us 

F*(Cz) = / / F{Cz,Pin,Po)P(pin)P(Po)<ipindpo, 

Jo Jo 

then this would allow us to consider pi„ and po as nuisance parameters and to totally 

disregard them in our algorithm, in the manner of Nobile & Fearnside (2007). However, 
it does not yet appear possible to do so. For convenience we chose to search for the 
triple (Cz,Pin,Po) that maximizes F{Cz). Another alternative would be to sample these 
parameters in the manner of Nowicki & Snijders (2001). 



4 The MOSES Maximization Algorithm 

MOSES, similarly to algorithms based on modularity, is driven by a global objective 
function, F{Cz)- Except in the smallest of networks, it is not feasible to exhaustively 
search every possible community assignment, calculating F{Cz) for each, and then 
remembering which got the best score. In order to handle graphs with millions of 
edges, we use a greedy maximization strategy in which communities are created and 
deleted, and nodes are added or removed from communities, in a manner that leads to 
an increase in the objective function. 

The change in the objective when an entire community is added or removed can 
be decomposed into a set of single node updates. A single node update, adding it to, 
or removing it from, a community, changes Ziq to z'iq = 1 — Ziq. In order to avoid 
considering a node being connected to itself in the following expression, which is not 
allowed in this model, wc focus on the addition of a community in this discussion. For 
convenience we define tpin = 1 — Pin and ipo = i — Po- 



10 



The objective, F(Cz), changes where node i is being added to community q, where 
j iterates over the set of nodes already within q, 

AF{C^) = Uq loglpin - Xij log Ipin 

+ log - log , 

Kn'J \nj 

where s'zii-ij) = (—1)^*' + sz{i,j) is the number of common communities between i 

and j after the node update has taken place. We note that we need the values of Sz 
only for those pairs of nodes that are connected, the edges. 

The change in a priori probability of Cz, Z\P(Cz), is more complicated as it depends 
on whether the node update results in a change to Qz, or not. We estimate m, the 
mean value of Q to be m = Qz, which allows us to simplify and approximate (6) 
when considering small changes to Qz- m is fixed but unknown, and hence e ^n+i>'"^ 
is a constant we can ignore for proportionality. A small change in Qz, increasing or 

Qz 

decreasing it by 1, will make little change in the ratio . , as m has been estimated 
to approximate Qz ■ 

Moreover, changes to Cz{Qz) depend on whether the node update results in a change 
to the number or multiplicity of unique columns in Z. In MOSES, we assume that all 
the communities we have found are unique, estimating Cz = Qz!- This introduces an 
overestimate of the multinomial Cz, and we would expect that this would introduce 
a bias towards finding duplicate communities. However, we have not yet observed a 
duplicate community in the output of the algorithm. 

We use a combination of heuristics in an attempt to find good communities. These 
are edge-expansion, community-deletion and single-node fine-tuning. In the following, 
it is more useful to think of a community assignment Cz as a set of communities, with 
each community consisting of a set of nodes. We will use Cz U C for C C 1/ to denote 
the addition of a new community to Cz. 

Edge expansion In the initial phase of the algorithm, edges are selected at random 
from the graph and a community is expanded around each selected edge in turn. 
Initially the community consists of two nodes C — {v,w}. Now nodes arc added to 
C from its frontier i.e. the set of nodes not in C but directly connected to nodes in 
C. Nodes are added in a greedy manner, selecting the node v* in the frontier that 
maximizes F{Cz U {C U v}). Expansion continues while the objective is the highest 
found so far. 

When a proposed community is very small, its contribution to the objective may be 
negative even if it is a clique. This is because, for a small community, P(Cz) dominates 
P{X\Cz,Pin,Po) in F{Cz)- Hence, we use a small lookahead, whereby expansion of a 
community will continue, oven if it would decrease the objective, unless / consecutive 
expansions fail to raise the objective. In practice, we use / = 2 and have found that 



11 



large values of I slow down the algorithm, without any significant improvement to the 
quality of the results. 

Edges are chosen randomly with replacement to be subject to expansion. Note that 
each subsequent time an edge is selected, it may expand into a different community, 
as, with each addition of a new community, the overlap counts Sz{i,j) change. For 
the first community expansion v* is simply the node with most connections to C. 
Then, as more expansions are performed, and more and more edges are 'claimed' by 
found communities, and Sz{i,j) increases, the expansion will favour edges with lower 
Szihj)- Informally, we can say that F{Cz) favours finding communities of nodes which 
are densely connected by edges, and that it has a preference for edges not already 
contained within other communities. 

Community Deletion Periodically all the communities are scanned to see if the re- 
moval of an entire community will result in a positive change in the objective. This 
check occurs after each 10% of the edges have been expanded and after the single-node 
fine tuning phase, so will happen 11 times. The output of the algorithm will be the 
assignments after the last community deletion phase. 

F(Cz \ {C}) > F{C.) 

Single-Node Fine Tuning The fine tuning phase takes place at the end of the edge 
expansion phase. It is inspired by the method of Blondel et al. (2008). In this phase, 
each node is examined in turn by removing it from all the communities it is assigned 
to and then considering adding it to the communities to which it is connected by an 
edge. As always, the decision to insert a node into a neighbouring community depends 
on whether it results in a positive change to F{Cz). 

Estimating pin and po The MOSES algorithm does not require the user to specify 
the two connection probability parameters. The algorithm estimates these itself as 
it proceeds. Only one input, the graph, is supplied to the MOSES software. It can 
be shown that, for a given z and x, and as a function of pin and po, the value of 
F{Cz,Pin,Po) depends on simple summary quantities such as the frequency of various 
values of Szii,j) across the edges. This allows us to efficiently select the values of pin 
and Po, given the current estimate of the communities, which maximize F{Cz). 

5 Evaluation 

5.1 Do empirical networks have highly overlapping community structure? 

Having described the model and the corresponding objective function, and the algo- 
rithm we propose, there are a number of experiments we performed. Some of these 
experiments tell us about the suitability of the objective function, others tell us about 
the performance of the algorithm. Firstly, we discuss a question which is not specific 
to MOSES. Namely, whether or not a typical empirical graph has highly overlapping 
structure, and whether or not an algorithm could ever exist to reliably detect that 
structure. 

A cluster of nodes with low conductance with respect to the rest of the graph can 
be informally described as a cluster with large internal density and/or few edges which 



12 




Fig. 2 A network community profile Leskovec et al. (2008), of an LFR graph suggesting that 
conductance is high for all subgraphs of this synthetic graph. The parameters of LFR synthetic 
benchmark graph are; benchmark -N2000 -k50 -maxkSO -minclO -maxclO -tlO -t20 -muO.l 
-on2000 -om5. Each node is in exactly five communities and MOSES can detect this highly 
overlapping structure. 



point out of the cluster. Leskovec et al. (2008) analyzed a variety of empirical graphs 
and searched for clusters with low conductance. For a given cluster size, k, a variety 
of heuristics are used to search for the single cluster with lowest conductance. If the 
conductance values are high for all values of k, Leskovec et al. (2008) argues that this 
can be interpreted as ruling out community structure at that scale. 

In fig. 2, we see the network community profile (NCP) plot for a synthetic dataset 
generated by the LFR software. The conductance is greater than 0.4 for all k. This value 
is higher than found by Leskovec et al. (2008) in a variety of empirical graphs, where 
values of 0.001 are not uncommon for some values of k. By the reasoning of Leskovec 
et al. (2008), we might (incorrectly) interpret this as proving that community structure 
does not exist at any scale. However, this data was generated with highly overlapping 
community structure where each node is placed in five communities. Also, the MOSES 
algorithm is able to detect this structure with high accuracy, acheiving 92.6% accuracy 
according to the overlapping extension to NMI. 

One relevant hypothesis is that many empirical networks might contain highly over- 
lapping, and easily detectable, community structure and that such structure may exist 
at the large scale as well as at the small scale, fig. 2 shows us that large conductance 
values are compatible with detectable community structure at small scales, and sug- 
gests that large scale structure cannot be ruled out at larger scales. The hypothesis is 
not ruled in, but nor can it be ruled out by the NCP. 

We do not propose that the MOSES model is a complete description of how em- 
pirical networks form, nor that the MOSES algorithm is the only way to detect such 
structure. Instead, our aim in this NCP experiment is to show that empirical networks 



13 



might have strong, highly overlapping structures at small and large scales, and that 
current or future algorithms may be able to reliably detect these communities. 



5.2 Data from the MOSES model 

In many of our experiments, data was generated from the LFR model as that is be- 
coming quite common in the community finding literature. But we can also generate 
data from the MOSES model directly. 

As currently formulated, the MOSES model specifies that, a priori, the community 
sizes are drawn uniformly between zero and N, the number of nodes in the graph. But 
that is not very realistic, so instead we select community sizes between 15 and 60 in 
order to be consistent with the LFR experiments which we will discuss in sections 5.3 
and 5.5. 

We created ten networks, where the average overlap increased from one to 10. We 
define the average overlap by considering each node and the number of communities 
that it is in, then taking the moan. The average overlap is referred to as Om in the LFR 
manual, but we used our own software for the experiment described in this subsection. 
The densities {pin and Pout) were chosen such that the average degrees would match 
those of the networks used in fig. 7 - average degree 15 X Om where 20% of a typical 
node's edges are not inside any community . Again, there were 2000 nodes in each 
network. To generate the data, we create the required number of communities by 
selecting nodes randomly, with replacement, and joining them with probability pin- 
Finally we add extra "background" edges between every pair of nodes with probability 

Pout- 

In table 2 we see that the algorithm can achieve around 85% NMI, and a good 
estimate of the number of communities, up to approximately 10 communities per node. 
This accuracy can be increased by increasing pi„ but we chose pin ~ 0.33 as this is 
where its performance starts to fall on these synthetic networks, and because it matches 
the density used in our LFR experiments. 



Table 2 Graphs from the MOSES model. pi„ = 0.33, pout = 0.0015 x Om, N = 2000 





#truc 




# found 




Estimates from MOSES 


Om 


communities 


#cdgcs 


communities 


NMI 


Pin 


Pout 


1 


53 


17041 


50 


0.885581 


0.228 


0.00156947 


2 


107 


33 042 


112 


0.918681 


0.316 


0.00305844 


3 


160 


48 441 


169 


0.937397 


0.323 


0.00447787 


4 


213 


64 573 


234 


0.919665 


0.334 


0.00596004 


5 


267 


78 931 


306 


0.885562 


0.335 


0.00793281 


6 


320 


94 846 


342 


0.901794 


0.336 


0.00959871 


7 


373 


110 539 


389 


0.886371 


0.336 


0.0116144 


8 


427 


127 609 


412 


0.881646 


0.336 


0.0127759 


9 


480 


143 526 


448 


0.85636 


0.335 


0.0154588 


10 


533 


157 471 


461 


0.843449 


0.336 


0.0170047 


12 


640 


185 298 


514 


0.795805 


0.338 


0.0226332 


15 


800 


229 450 


462 


0.699846 


0.337 


0.0400962 


20 


1067 


299 020 


316 


0.451244 


0.338 


0.0859497 



14 



5.3 The algorithm or the model? 



Parameter 


Description 


Value 


N 


number of nodes 


2000 


k 


average degree 


15 X Om 


kmax 


max degree 


15 X Om (in fig. 7(a)) 
or 45 X (in fig. 7(b)) 


Cmin 


minimum community size 


15 




maximum community size 


60 


Tl 


degree exponent 


-2 


T2 


community size exponent 





A* 


mixing parameter 


0.2 


o„ 


(n'tula])y>iiij< nodes 


. . . iV 




eoiiiiiiuiiilios ])er iitnle 


1. 1.2. i. L .... 2.0. :-!.(), . . . 10 



Table 3 Parameter values used for the experiments described in sections 5.3 and 5.5. Where 
Om = 1.4, for example, we put 40% of the nodes, i.e. 800 of them, each into two communities. 



As discussed in section 4 the MOSES algorithm is a heuristic optimisation strat- 
egy, targeted at finding the set of communities that maximises the posterior density 
P{z, Pin, Po\x) under our proposed stochastic model. We have seen good performance 
on a number of synthetic benchmarks, but it is worth asking, whenever MOSES fails, is 
this due to a failure of the heuristic optimisation strategy to find a good fit to the model, 
or is this due to a failure of the model to properly capture the characteristics of the un- 
derlying community structure. To investigate this, we looked again at the experiments 
where the performance of MOSES breaks down, at 10 or more communities-per-node. 
In the case where there are no communities in z, the MOSES model is identical to the 
Erdos-Renyi model. If we optimize pout ~ mxI'n-i) then we can use this model as a 
"baseline" value for the objective function. Then, the ratio of the logs of this quantity 
to P{z,PoutiPin\x) gives a value between and 1. The MOSES algorithm attempts 
to minimize this quantity. 

^^^^ ^ logPmoses(^, Pi, Po|a:) 
logPErdos-Renyi(a;!p) 

where Pi,Po are optimized for z under the MOSES model. 



Table 4 What docs tlie MOSES algorithm target? 



Overlap 


K'-ground Irutlij 


i('-liiOSC.s) 


-A/ 


NAIl 


1 


0.640671 


0.641113 


0.000442 


0.813046 


2 


0.704139 


0.715620 


0.011481 


0.735667 


3 


0.735461 


0.738797 


0.003336 


0.721188 


4 


0.785880 


0.793339 


0.007459 


0.664248 


5 


0.810475 


0.814468 


0.003993 


0.638435 


6 


0.832514 


0.829670 


-0.002844 


0.613011 


7 


0.849016 


0.841034 


-0.007982 


0.600076 


8 


0.861816 


0.848052 


-0.013764 


0.600137 


9 


0.882812 


0.864082 


-0.018730 


0.561496 


10 


0.895454 


0.870607 


-0.024847 


0.547616 



15 



In table 4, the value of /() is computed for the communities found by the MOSES 
algorithm and also for the ground truth communities. In all cases, the difference in 
/() is relatively small, suggesting that the MOSES algorithm has found communities 
which are of as good quality as the ground truth communities, according to the MOSES 
model. At the end of table 4, among the most highly-overlapping datasets, we see that 
the MOSES algorithm is achieving values of /() which are slightly better than that of 
the ground truth. This suggests that although the MOSES model is not the ideal model 
for these datasets, the MOSES algorithm is quite effective at targeting communities 
that fit the MOSES model when the amount of overlap is high. In order to improve 
the overall results (the NMI column in table 4) , it will likely be necessary to consider 
a new model. 

It should be noted that the MOSES algorithm is a generic algorithm and its heuris- 
tics are not restricted to the MOSES model. Hence the algorithm could perhaps be 
applied to other objectives. 

5.4 Evaluation on benchmark data with variable overlap 

To evaluate the accuracy of MOSES and other algorithms, we created a set of simple 
benchmark graphs with increasing levels of overlap. To generate the graphs, we begin 
with a graph with 2,000 nodes and no edges. We then assign a number of communities. 
For each community, 20 nodes are selected at random, without regard to whether those 
nodes have already been assigned to other communities. A note on terminology: in this 
we use highly overlapping to mean nodes that are members of many communities. It 
is worth considering whether alternative terminology is more appropriate, especially 
when looking at the intersection of two communities where the intersection may contain 
many nodes. 

We then add edges with reference to these communities. For each community, we 
add edges until every node is joined to every other node in that community. This gives 
us a graph with a large number of 20-cliques. 

These communities are referred to as the ground truth communities. Finally, every 
pair of nodes is joined with probability 0.005 to add a number of non-community 
edges. We further confirmed that, in our evaluation, all graphs generated are connected 
graphs, even those with the smallest number of communities. 

We then apply MOSES, and other algorithms, to these graphs to find communities. 
We use a recently published extension of normalized mutual information (NMI) to 
calculate how similar the ground truth communities are to the communities found by 
the various algorithms, as this measure has been popular in the recent literature. 

Results on these synthetic graphs are shown in fig. 3. We plot the accuracy, as 
measured by NMI, of a variety of overlapping CAAs. On the horizontal axis, we plot 
the average overlap, or average number of communities that a single node is in, within 
the benchmark graph. For example, where the average overlap is 1.0, this means there 
were 100 communities, each of 20 nodes, placed in the 2,000-node graph. 

The algorithms used are LFM by Lancichinetti et al. (2009), COPRA by Gregory 
(2009a) , Iterative Scan (IS) by Baumes et al. (2005) , clique percolation, and GCE 

^ For creating the LFR graphs with fixed overlap-pcr-nodc and measuring overlapping NMI, 
we use tlic implementations provided by the authors, both of which are freely available 
at http://sites.google.com/site/andrealaiicichinetti/software. For the specification of 
overlapping NMI, see the appendix of Lancichinetti et al. (2009). 



16 



o 




1 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 15 

Average Overlap 

Fig. 3 NMI of various algorithms as average overlap increases. Mean +/- standard deviation 
of twenty realizations of the graph. Iterative Scan (Baumes et al. (2005)) was run just once, 
due to time constraints. 



by Lee et al. (2010). We include the Louvain method Blondel et al. (2008) as an 
example of a popular partitioning algorithm. We have used implementations supplied 
by the authors, except for clique percolation. For clique percolation, we used our own 
implementation as existing implementations by Kumpula et al. (2008) and Palla et al. 
(2005) were slow on many of the datasets. The LFM community finding algorithm, 
and the LFR synthetic network creation software, are not to be confused with each 
other but they do share authors. The LFM software creates many complete collections 
from a graph, each of which is a complete community assignment. As recommended by 
the authors, we select the first such community assignment for use in this comparison. 
However, we have noticed that the results obtained from LFM when selecting the last 
collection, instead of the first, can be better. For completeness, we have included this 
in our comparison. 



17 



In fig. 4, we plot the average overlap found by the various algorithms. Only MOSES 
is able to obtain good estimates of the average overlap, up to an average overlap of 15 
communities-per-node. 




1 1 1 1 1 \ 1 1 r 

1 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 15 

Average Overlap 



Fig. 4 Estimated overlap of various algorithms as average overlap increases. 

In fig. 5, we consider graphs with a lower probability, 0.001, for the probability of 
a non-community edge between two nodes. This will assign approximately two non- 
community edges, on average, to each node. This improves the performance of many 
algorithms as the number of noisy edges has significantly decreased. We should note 
that these graphs are not necessarily connected, and some algorithms operate only on 
the largest connected component. For each of these sparser graphs, at least 90% of the 
nodes are in the largest connected component. 

In the benchmarks described so far, each community was a clique, rendering it 
simple for MOSES to detect. To investigate further, we generated a series of bench- 
marks where the edges inside communities are connected with a lower probability. 
As expected, the performance of all algorithms dropped as the internal edge density 
decreased. These are presented in fig. 6. MOSES can detect communities at up to 15 
communities per node, even as pi„ drops below 0.4. At pi„=0.3 however, all algorithms 
tested, including MOSES, have poor performance. 

Considering the broader implications of these experiments, especially fig. 4, we see 
that existing algorithms may underestimate the number of communities. This echoes 
our earlier hypothesis, that many empirical networks may have very highly overlapping 
community structure, which is missed by existing algorithms. 

We also note that the synthetic graphs just discussed are particularly suited to the 
MOSES model, as all the communities are created with the same edge density. This 
homogenous edge density across all communities is a good match for the pin parameter. 



18 






MOSES 
LFM (detajll) 
LFM (last Colleclion) 
GCE 




'-clique perCQlation 
LoLvain melfiod 




|G round Trufli) 









Average Overlap 

Fig. 5 Graphs with lower levels of "background" edges. 



Average Overlap 






LFM (default) 




LFM (last CDllecton) 




/ GCE 








' {Ground Tnilh} 








+ 





Average Overlap 



Average Overlap 



Fig. 6 NMI, and average found overlap, for Pi„ = 0.3. Po = 0.005. 



In order to investigate performance where the density varies across the ground truth 
communities, we next look at LFR benchmark graphs. 



5.5 Evaluation on LFR Graphs 

The LFR benchmark generation software Lancichinetti et al. (2008) can be used to 
generate more interesting datasets than those just analyzed. Above, we looked at com- 
munities of a fixed size with a constant internal edge density. The LFR software can 
generate graphs with a variety in community size, and a variety in node degree, each of 
which will create variance in the internal edge density. Such variety of density provides 
a challenge to MOSES, as the pin parameter in the MOSES model is such that all 
communities are assumed to be equally dense. 

One drawback of the LFR graphs is that all the overlapping nodes must be assigned 
to the same number of communities. This is why we created our own benchmarks , with 
varying overlap, in section 5.4. We used the LFR software to generate graphs not unlike 
those analyzed in the last section. The number of nodes is again 2,000. The community 
sizes range uniformly from 15 to 60. The mixing parameter, /i, is 0.2 meaning that 80% 
of the edges are between nodes that share a community. 



19 




Communities per node Communities per node 

(a) Fixed degree, fc = 15 X (b) Maximum degree is triple av- 
overlap erage 

Fig. 7 NMI scores as the amount of overlap increases in the LFR fixed-overlap graphs. We 
mark the mean +/- standard deviation, along with lines through the mean, over twenty real- 
izations of the synthetic benchmark. 



We varied the overlap to range from one community per node to ten communities 
per node. Then the degree of all the nodes was fixed to be 15 times the overlap. 
We present these results in fig. 7(a), where the horizontal axis is logarithmic. LFR 
can create graphs where only a portion of the nodes are assigned to more than one 
community, we use this feature to investigate graphs with on average 1.2, 1.4, 1.6, 1.8 
communities-per-node. Our parameters are summarized in table 3. 

In any one of these graphs, each overlapping node is in exactly the same number 
of communities, making the structure relatively simple. It is not surprising therefore 
that many algorithms, such as LFM and the partitioning algorithm by Blondel et al. 
(2008), perform well when the overlap is low. 

In the previous section we saw that a partitioning algorithm, such as Blondel et al. 
(2008), can fail on graphs with low average levels of overlap. This demonstrates that, 
even in empirical graphs where overlapping communities are not expected to be major 
feature, it may not be wise to use a partitioning algorithm. Partitioning algorithms 
might succeed only where each node is known to be in exactly one community. This is 
an unrealistic assumption in many empirical datasets. 

The LFR software can generate networks with a power law degree sequence. In 
fig. 7(b) we analyzed the same datasets as in fig. 7(a) but where the maximum degree 
was set to be three times the average degree. The slope of the power-law is set it to 
2.0. In these datasets, when the overlap is low, MOSES does not perform as well as 
GCE, LFM or clique percolation. On the other hand, MOSES is the only algorithm 
capable of detecting significant structure when the overlap approaches 10 communities 
per node. The NMI of the community assignments found by MOSES is consistently 
above 60% whereas the other algorithms' scores are well below 40% when there are 
more than six communities per node. 

The MOSES model does not explicitly model degree distribution, nor does it ex- 
plicitly model different within-community densities for different communities and this 
may explain its failure to get the highest NMI scores in fig. 7(b). This may be an area 
for future development of these models. The superior community model of MOSES 
enables it to detect some structure in the graphs with heaviest overlap. 



20 




1 1.3 1.6 2 3 4 5 6 7 a 9 10 1 1.2 1.6 2 3 4 5 6 7 B 9 10 

Communities per node Communities per node 

(a) Fixed degree, = 15 X overlap (b) Maximum degree is triple average 



Fig. 8 Run time, in seconds, as overlap increases in the LFR benchmarks. 



5.6 Scalability 

In fig. 8 we investigated the run time of tliese algoritlims. Tiie graplis are tlie same as 
in fig. 7, but instead we plot tlie logaritiim of tfie running time on tlie y-axis. GCE is 
the fastest of all the algorithms on the less overlapping data. While there are many 
algorithms faster than MOSES and LFM, the only one of those algorithms capable 
of getting reasonable NMI scores is GCE. The high quality NMI scores of MOSES 
do not carry a significant penalty in performance. MOSES is as fast as many scalable 
algorithms on overlapping data, and gets the highest quality results on the very highly 
overlapping data. 

In partitioning, the most popular and scalable methods can be trivially applied to 
a variety of objective functions. The Louvain method, and variants, have been used 
for both modularity maximization and to maximize the map equation of Rosvall et al. 
(2009). It might be best to think of the Louvain method not as a modularity maxi- 
mization algorithm, but as a fast method to maximize any simple partitioning objective 
function. 

For overlapping community finding, we hope to see progress on such "multi-objective" 
algorithms in future. The MOSES algorithm is not restricted to the MOSES model. 
And it is also valid to consider very scalable algorithms which are not based on the 
MOSES algorithm, but which do target the MOSES model. 



5.7 Evaluation on a real-world social network. 

Traud et al. (2010) gathered data on Facebook users and friendships in five US uni- 
versities. 

The degree distributions of all five appears to be very approximately log-normal, as 
can be seen in the logarithmic histograms of fig. 9(b). The distribution does not fit the 
power law distributions often assumed as an approximation for the degree distribution 
of empirical graphs. The relative narrowness of this (logged) degree distribution may 
improve the results of MOSES as it is a more reasonable fit for the MOSES model 
than a strict power law distribution would be. The average degree ranges from 43.3 to 



21 



Table 5 Summary of Traud et al. (2010) 's five university Facebook datasets, and of MOSES's 
output. 





Caltech 


Princeton 


Georgetown 


UNC 


Oklahoma 


Edges 


16656 


293320 


425638 


766800 


892528 


Nodes 


769 


6596 


9414 


18163 


17425 


Average Degree 


43.3 


88.9 


90.4 


84.4 


102.4 


Communities found 


62 


832 


1284 


2725 


3073 


Average Overlap 


3.29 


6.28 


6.67 


6.96 


7.46 


MOSES runtime (s) 


41 


553 


839 


1585 


2233 


GCE runtime (s) 


1 


1067 


1657 


3204 


664 


LFM runtime (s) 


23 


740 


1359 


4414 


4482 



Oklahoma 

Prince-.on 
UNC 

Georgetown " 




(a) Community size (b) Degree distribution 



Fig. 9 Sizes of the communities found, and degree distribution for Georgetown, in (logarith- 
mic) density plots. 



102.4 across the five universities. Assuming that communities are not very large, and 
that most edges in these networks are community edges, it must be the case that the 
average node is in many communities. 

A summary of the results is presented in table 5. It suggests that a Facebook 
user is, on average, a member of seven communities. In an analysis of one of their 
own Facebook ego-networks, Salter- Townshend & Murphy (2009) found it divided into 
six groups. MOSES assigns nodes each to a different number of communities, and to 
communities of varying size. In fig. 1, we present the communities of a student at 
Georgetown. MOSES assigns this student to four communities, and we visualized the 
subgraph based on all the nodes in those four communities. 



22 



6 Conclusions 

MOSES detects overlapping community structure in large networks where nodes may 
belong to many communities. Existing algorithms find only relatively low levels of over- 
lapping community structure. It is necessary to be able to detect highly overlapping 
structure, if only to rule it out for a given observed network. For instance, our analysis 
on Facebook data has shown that a typical Faccbook user can be a member of seven 
communities. This demonstrates the need for further research into such community 
structure. Existing algorithms work best where each node is in the same number of 
communities. But this is not a realistic assumption for social networks and we have 
demonstrated that MOSES can accurately detect communities in networks where typ- 
ical nodes are in many communities, and where there is variance in the number of 
communities a node is in. 

Acknowledgements Thanks to Prof. Brendan Murphy for providing feedback on the MOSES 
model. 



References 

Ahn, Y.Y., Bagrow, J. P. & Lehmann, S. (2010). Link communities reveal multiscale 
complexity in networks. Nature, 466, 761-764. 

Baumes, J., Goldberg, M., Krishnamoorthy, M., Magdon-Ismail, M. & Preston, N. 
(2005). Finding communities by clustering a graph into overlapping subgraphs. In 
International Conference on Applied Computing (lADIS 2005). 

Blondel, V., Guillaume, J., Lambiotte, R. & Lefebvre, E. (2008). Fast unfolding of 
communities in large networks. Journal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory and Ex- 
periment, 2008, P10008. 

Clauset, A. (2005). Finding local community structure in networks. Physical Review 
E, 72, 26132. 

Daudin, J., Picard, F. & Robin, S. (2008). A mixture model for random graphs. Sta- 
tistical Computing, 18, 173-183. 

Fortunate, S. (2010). Community detection in graphs. Physics Reports, 486, 75 - 174. 

Goldenberg, A., Zhang, A.X., E.Fienberg, S. & Airoldi, E.M. (2009). A survey of sta- 
tistical network models. 

Gregory, S. (2007). An algorithm to find overlapping community structure in networks. 
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 4702, 91. 

Gregory, S. (2009a). Finding overlapping communities in networks by label propaga^ 
tion. Arxiv preprint arXiv:0910.5516 . 

Gregory, S. (2009b). Finding Overlapping Communities Using Disjoint Community De- 
tection Algorithms. In Complex Networks: Results of the 1st International Work- 
shop on Complex Networks (CompleNet 2009), 47, Springer. 

Kumpula, J.M., Kivela, M., Kaski, K. & Saramaki, J. (2008). A sequential algorithm 
for fast clique percolation. 

Lancichinetti, A. & Fortunato, S. (2009). Benchmarks for testing community detection 
algorithms on directed and weighted graphs with overlapping communities. Physical 
Review E, 80, 16118. 



23 



Lancichinctti, A., Fortunate, S. & Radicchi, F. (2008). Benchmark graphs for testing 
community detection algorithms. Physical Review E, 78. 

Lancichinetti, A., Fortunato, S. & Kertesz, J. (2009). Detecting the overlapping and 
hierarchical community structure in complex networks. New J. Phys., 11, 033015+. 

Latouche, P., Birmelc, E. & Ambroise, C. (2009). Overlapping stochastic block models. 

Lee, C, Reid, F., McDaid, A. & Hurley, N. (2010). Detecting highly overlapping com- 
munity structure by greedy clique expansion. Poster at KDD 2010 . 

Leskovec, J., Lang, K.J., Dasgupta, A. & Mahoney, M.W. (2008). Statistical properties 
of community structure in large social and information networks. 695-704, ACM. 

Mishral, N., Schreiber, R., Stanton, L & Tarjan, R.E. (2007). Clustering social net- 
works. Lecture notes in computer science, 4863, 56. 

Newman, M. & Girvan, M. (2004). Finding and evaluating community structure in 
networks. Phys Rev E, 69, 026113. 

Nobile, A. & Fearnside, A. (2007). Bayesian finite mixtures with an unknown number 
of components: The allocation sampler. Statistics and Computing , 17, 147-162. 

Nowicki, K. & Snijders, T.A.B. (2001). Estimation and prediction for stochastic block- 
structures. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 96, 1077-1087. 

Palla, G., Derenyi, L, Farkas, L & Vicsek, T. (2005). Uncovering the overlapping com- 
munity structure of complex networks in nature and society. Nature, 435, 814-818. 

Reid, F. (2010). Partitioning considered harmful. Submitted to NIPS 2010. 

Rosvall, M., Axelsson, D. & Bergstrom, C.T. (2009). The map equation. 

Salter- Townshend, M. & Murphy, T.B. (2009). Variational Bayesian Inference for the 
Latent Position Cluster Model. 

Shen, H., Cheng, X., Cai, K. & Hu, M. (2009). Detect overlapping and hierarchical 
community structure in networks. Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Appli- 
cations, 388, 1706-1712. 

Traud, A.L., Kelsic, E.D., Mucha, P.J. & Porter, M.A. (2010). Comparing Commu- 
nity Structure to Characteristics in Online Collegiate Social Networks, to appear in 
SIAM Review, arXiv preprint arXiv:0809.0690 . 

Zanghi, H., Ambroise, C. & Miele, V. (2007). Fast online graph clustering via erdos- 
renyi mixture. 



