1 



o 



The Anatomy of the Facebook Social Graph 

Johan Ugandcr^'^*, Brian Karrcr^'"^*, Lars Backstrom^, Cameron Marlow^'^ 

1 Facebook, Palo Alto, CA, USA 

2 Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA 

3 University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA 
* These authors contributed equally to this work, 
t Corresponding author: cameron@fb.com 

Abstract 

O " 

' We study the structure of the social graph of active Facebook users, the largest social network ever 

^ , analyzed. Wc compute numerous features of the graph including the number of users and friendships, the 

degree distribution, path lengths, clustering, and mixing patterns. Our results center around three main 
observations. First, we characterize the global structure of the graph, determining that the social network 
lyQ • is nearly fully connected, with 99.91% of individuals belonging to a single large connected component, 

and we confirm the 'six degrees of separation' phenomenon on a global scale. Second, by studying 
the average local clustering coefficient and degeneracy of graph neighborhoods, we show that while the 
Facebook graph as a whole is clearly sparse, the graph neighborhoods of users contain surprisingly dense 
CO ' structure. Third, we characterize the assortativity patterns present in the graph by studying the basic 

t/3 , demographic and network properties of users. We observe clear degree assortativity and characterize the 

extent to which 'your friends have more friends than you'. Furthermore, we observe a strong effect of 
age on friendship preferences as well as a globally modular community structure driven by nationality, 
but we do not find any strong gender homophily. We compare our results with those from smaller social 
, networks and find mostly, but not entirely, agreement on common structural network characteristics. 

o 

! Introduction 

The emergence of online social networking services over the past decade has revolutionized how social 
scientists study the structure of human relationships [1]. As individuals bring their social relations online, 
the focal point of the internet is evolving from being a network of documents to being a network of people, 
and previously invisible social structures are being captured at tremendous scale and with unprecedented 
detail. In this work, we characterize the structure of the world's largest online social network, Facebook, 
in an effort to advance the state of the art in the empirical study of social networks. 
I In its simplest form, a social network contains individuals as vertices and edges as relationships between 

vertices This abstract view of human relationships, while certainly limited, has been very useful for 
characterizing social relationships, with structural measures of this network abstraction finding active 
application to the study of everything from bargaining power [3] to psychological health Moreover, 
social networks have been observed to display a broad range of unifying structural properties, including 
homophily, clustering, the small-world effect, heterogeneous distributions of friends, and community 
structure 

Quantitative analysis of these relationships requires individuals to explicitly detail their social net- 
works. Historically, studies of social networks were limited to hundreds of individuals as data on social 
relationships was collected through painstakingly difficult means. Online social networks allow us to in- 
crease the scale and accuracy of such studies dramatically because new social network data, mostly from 
online sources, map out our social relationships at a nearly global scale. Prior studies of online social 
networks include research on Twitter, Flickr, Yahoo! 360, Cyworld, Myspace, Orkut, and LiveJournal 
among others [7l-[TT]. 

The trend within this line of research is to measure larger and larger representations of social networks. 



X 



2 



including networks derived from email [T^], telephony [T3], and instant messaging [T3] traces. Two 
recent studies of Renren [T5] and MSN messenger [T3] included 42 million and 180 million individuals 
respectively. Network completeness is especially important in the study of online social networks because 
unlike traditional social science research, the members of online social networks are not controlled random 
samples, and instead should be considered biased samples. While the demographics of these networks 
have begun to approach the demographics of the global population at large jl6j . the most accurate 
representation of our social relationships will include as many people as possible. We are not there yet, 
but in this paper we characterize the entire social network of active members of Facebook in May 2011, a 
network then comprised of 721 million active users. To our knowledge, this is the largest social network 
ever analyzed. 

Facebook has naturally attracted the attention of researchers in the past. Some of this research has 
been devoted towards understanding small subsets of the Facebook population, including in particular the 
social networks of university students [17H19| . Other studies have analyzed communication patterns and 
activity amongst segments of the user population |201I21| . Then another thread of research has measured 
some large-scale network properties of the Facebook graph through sampling, crawling, and other methods 
to collect network data [22123] . Notably, these methodologies have no way of distinguishing between active 
and stale accounts. Unlike these studies, we analyze the entire Facebook graph in anonymized form and 
focus on the set of active user accounts reliably corresponding to people. 

We defined a user of Facebook as an active member of the social network if they logged into the site 
in the last 28 days from our time of measurement in May 2011 and had at least one Facebook friend. 
We note that this definition is not precisely Facebook's ordinary definition of active user, and therefore 
some of our statistics differ slightly from company statistics. According to our definition of active, the 
population of active Facebook users consisted of around n = 721 million individuals at the time of our 
measurements. For comparison, estimating that the world's population was around 6.9 billion people in 
May 2011 means that the network includes roughly 10 percent of the world's population. Restricting 
the comparison to individuals age 13 or more and with access to the internet (the set of individuals 
eligible to have Facebook accounts) would put this percentage significantly higher. There were 68.7 
billion friendship edges at the time of our measurements, so the average Facebook user in our study had 
around 190 Facebook friends. Our analysis predated the existence of 'subscriptions' on Facebook, and in 
this work we study only reciprocal Facebook friendships. 

We also analyzed the subgraph of 149 million U.S. Facebook users. Using population estimates from 
the U.S. Census Bereau for 2011, there are roughly 260 million individuals in the U.S. over the age of 
13 and therefore eligible to create a Facebook account. Within the U.S., the Facebook social network 
therefore includes more than half the eligible population. This subpopulation had 15.9 billion edges, so 
the average U.S. user was friends with around 214 other U.S. users. This higher average value may reflect 
Facebook's deeper adoption in the U.S. as of May 2011. 

Our goals with characterizing Facebook's social network are two-fold. First, we aim to advance the 
collective knowledge of social networks and satisfy widespread curiosity about social relationships as 
embodied in Facebook. Second, we hope to focus the development of graph algorithms and network 
analysis tools towards a realistic representation of these relationships. Towards these goals, we provide 
an accurate description of Facebook's social network here. 

Results 

In this section, we apply a wide variety of graph measures to the Facebook social network. As the network 
is truly enormous, we utilize extensive computational resources to perform these measurements. However, 
the focus of this paper is on the results of these measurements, and therefore we relegate discussions of 
our techniques to the Methods. 



3 



o 




Figure 1. Degree distribution pk- (a) The fraction of users with degree k for both the global and 
U.S. population of Facebook users, (b) The complementary cumulative distribution function (CCDF). 
The CCDF at degree k measures the fraction of users who have degree k or greater and in terms of the 
degree distribution is ^k'>kPi'' ■ U.S., the degree measures the number of friends also from the 

United States. 

The Facebook Graph 

Degree distribution. A fundamental quantity measured repeatedly in empirical studies of networks has 
been the degree distribution pk- The degree k of an individual is the number of friends that individual 
has, and pk is the fraction of individuals in the network who have exactly k friends. We computed 
the degree distribution of active Facebook users across the entire global population and also within the 
subpopulation of American users. The global and U.S. degree distributions arc shown in Fig.[Tl displayed 
on a log-log scale. 

Because the distribution for the U.S. is quite similar to that of the entire population, we focus our 
attention on the global degree distribution. The distribution is nearly monotonically decreasing, except 
for a small anomaly near 20 friends. This kink is due to forces within the Facebook product to encourage 
low friend count individuals in particular to gain more friends until they reach 20 friends. The distribution 
shows a clear cutoff at 5000 friends, a limit imposed by Facebook on the number of friends at the time 
of our measurements. Note that since 5000 is nowhere near the number of Facebook users, each user 
is clearly friends with a vanishing fraction of the Facebook population. Reflecting most observed social 
networks, our social relationships are sparse. 

Indeed, most individuals have a moderate number of friends on Facebook, less than 200, while a 
much smaller population have many hundreds or even thousands of friends. The median friend count for 
global users in our study was 99. The small population of users with abnormally high degrees, sometimes 
called hubs in the networks literature, have degrees far larger than the average or median Facebook user. 
The distribution is clearly right-skewed with a high variance, but it is notable that there is substantial 
curvature exhibited in the distribution on a log-log scale. This curvature is somewhat surprising, because 
empirical measurements of networks have often claimed degree distributions to follow so-called power- 



4 




2 4 6 8 10 

hop distance 



Figure 2. Diameter. The neighborhood function N{h) showing the percentage of user pairs that are 
within h hops of each other. The average distance between users on Facebook in May 2011 was 4.7, 
while the average distance within the U.S. at the same time was 4.3. 

laws, represented mathematically by pk oc fc^" for some a > PHIH]- Power-laws are straight lines on a 
log-log plot, and clearly the observed distribution is not straight. We conclude, like Ref. [23], that strict 
power-law models are inappropriate for Facebook's degree distribution. It is not our intent, though, to 
determine which parametric form best models the distribution. The relevant results are the monotonicity 
and curvature of the degree distribution, the degrees of typical users, the large variance in degrees, and 
the network's sparsity. 

The sparsity of the network does not, however, imply that users are far from each other in Facebook's 
network. While most pairs of users are not directly connected to each other, practically all pairs of users 
are connected via paths of longer lengths. In the next section, we measure the distances between users 
in the social graph. 

Path lengths. When studying a network's structure, the distribution of distances between vertices 
is a truly macroscopic property of fundamental interest. Here we characterize the neighborhood functions 
and the average pairwise distances of the Facebook and U.S. networks. 

Formally, the neighborhood function N(h) of a graph describes the number of pairs of vertices (u, v) 
such that u is reachable from v along a path in the network with h edges or less. Given the neighborhood 
function, the diameter of a graph is simply the maximum distance between any pair of vertices in the 
graph. The diameter is an extremal measure, and it is commonly considered less interesting than the full 
neighborhood function, which measures what percentile of vertex pairs are within a given distance. The 
exact diameter can be wildly distorted by the presence of a single ill-connected path in some peripheral 
region of the graph, while the neighborhood function and its average are thought to robustly capture the 
'typical' distances between pairs of vertices. 

Like many other graphs, the Facebook graph does not have paths between all pairs of vertices. This 
does not prevent us from describing the network using the neighborhood function though. As we shall 
see in the next section, the vast majority of the network consists of one large connected component and 
therefore the neighborhood function is representative of the overwhelming majority of pairs of vertices. 

Figure [2] shows the neighborhood function computed for both the graph of all Facebook users as 
well as the graph of U.S. Facebook users, as of May 2011, using the recently developed HyperANF 



5 



CD 
O 
+ 
CD 



CD 

C O 

o + 

Q. CD 

E ^ 

o 

o 



3 



o 
o 

+ 

CD 




1e+00 1e+02 1e+04 1e+06 1e+08 
Component size 



Figure 3. Component size distribution. The fraction of components with a given component size 
on a log-log scale. Most vertices (99.91%) are in the largest component. 



algorithm [48]. We find that the average distance between pairs of users was 4.7 for Facebook users and 
4.3 for U.S. users. Short path lengths between individuals, the so-called "six degrees of separation" found 
by Stanley Milgram's experiments investigating the social network of the United States [26], are here 
seen in Facebook on a global scale. As Figure [2] shows, fully 92% of all pairs of Facebook users were 
within five degrees of separation, and 99.6% were within six degrees. Considering the social network of 
only U.S. users, 96% were within five degrees and 99.7% were within six degrees. For the technical details 
behind these calculations, we refer the interested reader to a separate paper concerning the compression 
and traversal of the Facebook graph [27] . 

In order to show that these path length results are representative of the entire Facebook network, we 
now investigate the component structure of the graph. 

Component sizes. Our conclusion from the previous section that the network has very short average 
path lengths relies on the existence of such paths between most pairs of vertices, a fact which we shall 
confirm in this section. We do so by finding the connected components of the social network, where a 
connected component is a set of individuals for which each pair of individuals are connected by at least 
one path through the network. Our neighborhood function calculations only computed distances between 
pairs of users within connected components because these are the only users actually connected via paths. 
In order for the results from the previous section to be interpreted as describing the diameter, we require 
that most, if not all, of the network be in one large connected component. 

In Fig. |3l we show the distribution of component sizes on log-log scales, found exactly using an 
algorithm described in the Methods. While there are many connected components, most of these compo- 
nents are extremely small. The second-largest connected component only has just over 2000 individuals, 
whereas the largest connected component, the outlier all the way on the right-hand side of the figure, 
consists of 99.91% percent of the network. This component comprises the vast majority of active Face- 
book users with at least one friend. So not only are the average path lengths between individuals short, 
these social connections exist between nearly everyone on Facebook. 

The path lengths and component structure of the network give us a view of the network at a macro- 
scopic scale, and we now continue our investigation by examining more local properties of the network. 

Clustering coefficient and degeneracy. Earlier we characterized the number of friends per user by 



6 




Figure 4. Local clustering coefficient and degeneracy. The clustering coefficient (a) and tlie 
degeneracy (b) as a function of degree on log-log scales. The means are shown as solid lines and the 
dashed lines display the 5/95th percentiles. An upper-bound on the degeneracy given by degree minus 1 
is also shown as the thin solid line for comparison. 



computing the degree distribution, and we now perform a closer analysis of the social graph neighborhoods 
of users. The neighborhood graph for user z, sometimes called the 6170 graph or the 1-ball, is the vertex- 
induced subgraph consisting of the users who are friends with user i and the friendships between these 
users. User i is not included in their own neighborhood. 

We first computed the average local clustering coefficient for users as a function of degree, which for 
a vertex of degree k measures the percentage of possible friendships between their k friends (at most 
k{k — l)/2) are present in their neighborhood graph. This result is shown in Figure |4^, where we note 
that the axes are log-log. 

We see that the local clustering coefficient is very large regardless of the degree, compared to the 
percentage of possible friendships in the network as a whole, and more importantly, compared to mea- 
surements of other online social networks. For example, for users with 100 friends, the average local 
clustering coefficient is 0.14, indicating that for a median user, 14% of all their friend pairs are them- 
selves friends. This is approximately five times greater than the clustering coefficient found in a 2008 
study analyzing the graph of MSN messenger correspondences, for the same neighborhood size [14] . 

Meanwhile, our analysis also shows that the clustering coefficient decreases monotonically with degree, 
consistent with the earlier MSN messenger study and other studies. In particular, the clustering coefficient 
drops rapidly for users with close to 5000 friends, indicating that these users are likely using Facebook 
for less coherently social purposes and friending users more indiscriminately. 

Having observed such large clustering coefficients in local neighborhoods, we chose to study the 
sparsity of the neighborhood graphs further by measuring their degeneracy. Formally, the degeneracy of 
an undirected graph G is the largest k for which G has a non-empty fc-core [55]. Meanwhile, the k-core 
of a graph G is the maximal subgraph of G in which all vertices have degree at least k, or equivalently, 
the subgraph of G formed by iteratively removing all vertices of degree less than k until convergence. 

The maximal k-coie of a graph G bears conceptual resemblance to the maximal /c-clique of G, but 



7 




200 400 600 800 1000 
Degree 



Figure 5. Friends-of-friends. The average number of unique and non-unique friends-of-friends as 
described in the text as a function of degree. Degree squared and a linear fit of the unique 
friends-of-friends are shown for comparison as the dotted and dashed lines. 

it is important to note that a fc-core is not necessarily a fc -I- 1-clique, unless the k-core contains exactly 
k + 1 vertices. The fc-core however offers a readily computable and robust indication of how tightly-knit 
a community exists within a given graph. 

We report the average degeneracy as a function of user degree in Figure HJj, again plotted on a log-log 
scale. Within the neighborhood graphs of users, we find that the average degeneracy is an increasing 
function of user degree. This should be considered consistent with our expectations: the more friends you 
have, the larger a tight-knit community you are typically embedded within. What is however surprising 
is how dense these neighborhoods in fact are: for a user with 100 friends, the average degeneracy of their 
neighborhood is 15. Furthermore, for users with 500 friends, their average degeneracy is 53, meaning 
that they have at least 54 friends who all know 53 of their other friends. In contrast, Eppstein and Strash 
recently examined the degeneracy of several graphs, both social and non-social, and found that across the 
entire graphs (not examining only neighborhoods), the degeneracies were much more modest [29]. For the 
36,692 vertex graph of Enron email communication, the degeneracy was only 43. For the 16,706 vertex 
graph of arXiv astro-ph collaborations, the degeneracy was only 56. In contrast, we find comparable 
degeneracies simply by considering the neighborhood of an average user with 500 friends. 

This suggests that even though the Facebook graph is sparse as a whole, when users accumulate sizable 
friend counts their friendships are far from indiscriminate, and instead center around sizable dense cores. 
We now consider the neighborhood of a vertex out to greater distances by examining the friends-of-friends 
of individual users. 

Friends of Friends. An important property of graphs to consider when designing algorithms is the 
number of vertices that are within two hops of an initial vertex. This property determines the extent to 
which graph traversal algorithms, such as breadth-first search, are feasible. In Figure [5l we computed the 
average count of both unique and non-unique friends-of-friends as a function of degree. The non-unique 
friends-of-friends count corresponds to the number of length-two paths starting at an initial vertex and 
not returning to that vertex. The unique friends-of-friends count corresponds to the number of unique 
vertices reachable at the end of a length-two path. 

A naive approach to counting friends-of-friends would assume that a user with k friends has roughly 



8 



non-unique fricnds-of-fricnds, assuming that their friends have roughly the same friend count as them. 
This could also be considered a generous naive estimate of the number of unique fricnds-of- friends, 
generous because we saw above that a significant fraction of your friends's friends are your friends. In 
reality, the number of non-unique friends of friends grows only moderately faster than linear, and the 
number of unique friends-of-fricnds grows very close to linear, with a linear fit producing a slope of 355 
unique friends-of-friends per additional friend. 

While the growth rate may be slower than expected, until a user has more than 800 friends, it's 
important to observe from the figure that the absolute amounts are unexpectedly large: a user with 
with 100 friends has 27, 500 unique friends-of-friends and 40, 300 non-unique friends-of-friends. This is 
significantly more than the 100 * 99 = 9, 900 non-unique friends-of-friends we would have expected if our 
friends had roughly the same number of friends as us. This excess is related to a principle which we will 
discuss at length below, where we show the extent to which 'your friends have more friends than you', 
an established result from prior studies of social networks [3D] . 

Degree correlations. The number of friendships in your local network neighborhood depends on 
the number of friends, the degree, of your friends. In many social networks, online and offline, it has been 
noticed that your neighbor's degree is correlated with your own degree: it tends to be large when your 
degree is large, and small when your degree is small, so-called degree assortativity. We can quantify these 
degree correlations by computing the Pearson correlation coefficient r between degrees at the end of an 
edge |31I32) . For the Facebook network, r = 0.226, displaying positive correlations with similar magnitude 
to other social graphs. This value is consistent with earlier studies of smaller networks including academic 
coauthorship and film actor collaborations, where values of r range from 0.120 to 0.363 [3Tj. Another 
more detailed measure (fc„„) (fc), the average number of friends for a neighbor of an individual with k 
friends |33] , is shown as the solid line in Fig. |6K. (We use the notation (x) to represent an average of a 
quantity x). The expected number of friends at the end of a randomly chosen edge, {k'^) / (k) = 635, is 
shown as a horizontal dotted line. Unlike this constant value — which is our expectation if there were no 
degree correlations — the solid line increases from near 300 for low degree individuals to nearly 820 for 
individuals with a thousand friends confirming the network's positive assortativity. (The measurements 
become noisy past 1000 and we cut the figure off at this point for clarity.) 

Comparing the solid line to the diagonal dashed line shows that until you have nearly 700 friends, 
your (average) neighbor has more friends than you. This phenomena has been discussed at length by 
Feld [30], and Facebook displays the effect on a grand scale. The fact that our average neighbors have 
so many more friends also explains why our naive friend-of-friend estimates in the previous section were 
far too low. 

Feld's observation that 'your friends have more friends than you' is an important psychological para- 
dox, applying to friendship as well as sexual partners. When people compare themselves to their friends, 
it is conceptually more appropriate to frame the comparison relative to the median of their friends, psy- 
chologizing the question as a matter of asking what one's 'class rank' is amongst one's peers |34| . Our 
finding with regard to the median is therefore perhaps more significant: we observe that 83.6% of users 
have less friends than the median friend count of their friends. All these individuals experience that more 
than half of their friends have more friends than they do. For completeness, we also note that 92.7% of 
users have less friends than the average friend count of their friends. 

However, we can do more than measure these simple statistics and we characterize the conditional 
probability p{k'\k) that a randomly chosen friend of an individual with degree k has degree k' [35]. We 
computed this for evenly spaced values of fc, all multiples of ten, and show the distribution for a few 
example values of k in Fig. [61d, along with the distribution if there were no degree correlations, i.e. the 
distribution of degrees found by following a randomly selected edge. 

First, note that the horizontal axis is log while the vertical axis is linear. Agreeing with Fig. [S^, the 
mean of these distributions is clearly less than the mean of the orange distribution which represents fol- 
lowing a random edge in the network, except for the green line denoting k = 500. Again, the distributions 



9 




Figure 6. Degree correlations, (a) The average neighbor degree of an individual with degree k is 
the solid line. The horizontal dashed line shows the expected value if there were no degree correlations 
in the network (fc^) / (fc), and the diagonal is shown as a dashed line, (b) The conditional probability 
p{k'\k) that a randomly chosen neighbor of an individual with degree k has degree k'. The solid lines, 
on the linear-log scale, show the measured values for four distinct degrees k shown in the caption. The 
orange line shows the expected distribution, -^^fy^, if the degrees were uncorrelated. 

shift to the right as k increases demonstrating the degree assortativity. Furthermore, barring any strange 
non-smooth behavior between the sampled values of k, the median for p(k'\k) is greater than k up until 
between 390 and 400 friends, confirming that the behavior of the mean in Fig. UK was not misleading. 
Another observation from the figure, and data for other values of k not shown, is that the modal degree 
of friends is exactly equal to k until around k ~ 120. So while your friends are likely to have more friends 
than you on average, the most likely number of your neighbor's friends is the same as your degree for low 
to moderate degree users. 

Site engagement correlation. Besides for degree correlations, we also examined correlations 
amongst traits of individuals and network structure j36j . We now repeat our correlation calculations 
using the number of days users logged in during the 28-day window of the study, instead of degree, seen 
in Fig. [7^. Again, we provide the average value at the end of a randomly selected edge and the diagonal 
line for comparison. 

Unlike the degree case, here there is an ambiguity in defining a random neighbor and hence the 
average number of neighbor logins. Our definition of random neighbor of vertices with trait x is to first 
select a vertex with trait x in proportion to their degree and then select an edge connected to that vertex 
uniformly at random. In other words, we give each edge connected to vertices with trait x equal weight. 
So a vertex who is connected to 5 vertices with trait x is given 5 times as much weight in the average as 
a vertex who connects to a single vertex with trait x. 

Like the degree, your neighbor's site engagement is correlated with your site engagement, but the 
average number of neighbor logins is better represented by the horizontal random expectation than what 
was seen in the degree case. The more interesting observation, though, is that the solid value is far larger 
than the diagonal value over most of the range from logging in to 20 times in the past 28 days. So by 



10 




Figure 7. Login correlations, (a) Neighbor's logins versus user's logins to Facebook over a period of 
28 days. The solid line shows the actual mean values and the horizontal line shows the average login 
value found by following a randomly chosen edge. The dashed line shows the diagonal, (b) A user's 
degree versus the number of days a user logged into Facebook in the 28 day period. The solid line shows 
the mean user degree, the dashed lines the 25/75 percentiles, and the dotted lines the 5/95th percentiles. 



the same line of reasoning for the degree case, up until you log in around 70 percent of days in a month, 
on average, your friends log into Facebook more than you do. 

We can understand this phenomena by examining the correlation between an individual's degree 
and logging into Facebook. A Facebook user provides and receives content through status updates, links, 
videos, and photos, etc. to and from their friends in the social network, and hence may be more motivated 
to log in if they have more friends. Such a positive correlation does exist between degree and logins, and 
we show that in Fig. [TId. A user who logs in more generally has more friends on Facebook and vice versa. 
So since your friends have more friends than you do, they also login to Facebook more than you do. 

Other mixing patterns. There are many other user traits besides logging into Facebook that can 
be compared to the network structure. We focus on three other such quantities with essentially complete 
coverage for Facebook's users; age, gender, and country of origin, and characterize their homophily |36| 
and mixing patterns [32] . 

We start by considering friendship patterns amongst individuals with different ages, and compute the 
conditional probability p{t'\t) of selecting a random neighbor of individuals with age t who has age t' . 
Again, random neighbor means that each edge connected to a vertex with age t is given equal probability of 
being followed. We display this function for a wide range of t values in Fig. [H The resulting distributions 
are not merely a function of the magnitude of the age difference |i — <'| as might naively be expected, 
and instead are asymmetric about a maximum value of t' = t. Unsurprisingly, a random neighbor is 
most likely to be the same age as you. Less obviously, the probability of friendship with older individuals 
falls off rapidly, nearly exponentially, from the mode. Below the mode, the distributions also fall off. 



11 



O r 
CM _ 

O 



^— Age 20 
^— Age 30 
^— Age 40 
^— Age 50 
^— Age 60 



LL 




c 



o 



o _ 
d 



o 

o _ 
d ^ 



LO 




^— Random edge 



20 



40 



) 60 
Neighbor's age 



80 



100 



Figure 8. The distribution p{t'\t) of ages t' for the neighbors of users with age t. The solid 
lines show the measured distributions against the age t described in the legend, and the red line shows 
the distribution of ages found by following a randomly chosen edge in the network. 

but then level out to a value that is nearly independent of the user's age t (sec for example the blue, 
yellow and green lines). And from the figure we notice that as t increases the variance in the distribution 
increases. Roughly speaking, younger individuals have most of their friends within a small age range 
while older individuals have a much wider range. None of this behavior is evident when comparing to 
the distribution of ages at the end of a randomly chosen edge, the red line, which is centered around 20. 
So while it is obvious that age matters to our social relationships, the Facebook social network shows 
non-trivial asymmetric patterns, consistent across user ages t. 

Switching to gender, we compute the conditional probability p{g'\g) that a random neighbor of indi- 
viduals with gender g has gender g' where we denote male by M and female by F. For friends of male 
users, we find that p{F\M) = 0.5131 and p{M\M) = 0.4869. For friends of female users, we find that 
p{F\F) = 0.5178 and p{AI\F) — 0.4822. In both cases, we see that a random neighbor is more likely to 
be female. 

In order to understand this result, we compare to the probability of following a randomly selected edge 
and arriving at a particular gender. These probabilities are given by p{F) = 0.5156 and p{M) = 0.4844 
respectively. The probability is higher for females because the number of edge ends, called stubs in the 
networks literature, connected to females is higher than for males. While there are roughly 30 million 
fewer active female users on Facebook, the average female degree (198) is larger than the average male 
degree (172), resulting in p{F) > p{M). 

Comparing these quantities, we see that p{F\M) < p{F) < p{F\F) and p{M\F) < p{M) < p{M\M). 
However, the magnitude of the difference between these probabilities is extremely small and only differs 
in the thousandths place. So if there is a preference for same gender friendships on Facebook, the effect 
appears minimal at most. 

Lastly, we turn to country of origin, a categorical variable divided into 249 categories according to the 
ISO 3166-1 country code standard. These labels are attributed to users based on the user's most recent IP 
address login source and known correspondences between IP addresses and geographic locations. While 
imperfect, so-called geo-IP data is generally reliable on a national level. 

Intuitively, we expect to have many more friends from our country of origin then from outside that 



12 




Figure 9. Normalized country adjacency matrix. Matrix of edges between countries with > 1 
million users and > 50% Faccbook penetration shown on a log scale. To normalize, we divided each 
element of the adjacency matrix by the product of the row country degree and column country degree. 

country, and the data shows that 84.2% percent of edges are within countries. So the network divides fairly 
cleanly along country lines into network clusters or communities. This mesoscopic-scale organization is 
to be expected as Faccbook captures social relationships divided by national borders. We can further 
quantify this division using the modularity Q |37] which is the fraction of edges within communities 
minus the expected fraction of edges within communities in a randomized version of the network that 
preserves the degrees for each individual |38] . but is otherwise random. In this case, the communities 
are the countries. The computed value is Q = 0.7486 which is quite large |39j and indicates a strongly 
modular network structure at the scale of countries. Especially considering that unlike numerous studies 
using the modularity to detect communities, we in no way attempted to maximize it directly, and instead 
merely utilized the given countries as community labels. 

We visualize this highly modular structure in Fig. [HI The figure displays a heatmap of the number 
of edges between the 54 countries where the active Facebook user population exceeds one million users 
and is more than 50% of the internet-enabled population |40| . To be entirely accurate, the shown matrix 
contains each edge twice, once in both directions, and therefore has twice the number of edges in diagonal 
elements. The number of edges was normalized by dividing the ijth entry by the row and column sums, 
equal to the product of the degrees of country i and j. The ordering of the countries was then determined 
via complete linkage hierarchical clustering. 



13 



While most of the edges in the figure are on the diagonal, the log-scale clearly highlights further 
modular structure in friendships between countries. The countries fall into groups, the clearly square-like 
patterns in the matrix, with preferential friendship patterns amongst citizens of different countries. 

The complete list of countries in the order presented in the matrix is shown in Table [TJ Many of the 
resulting country groupings are intuitive according to geography. For example, there are clear groups 
corresponding to the South Pacific, North and Central America, South America, North Africa and the 
Middle East, Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean, and to the Nordic countries of Denmark, Sweden, 
and Norway. Other more curious groupings, not clearly based on geography, include the combination of 
the United Kingdom, Ghana, and South Africa, which may reflect strong historical ties. The figure clearly 
demonstrates that not only are friendships predominantly between users within the same country, but 
that friendships between countries are also highly modular, and apparently influenced by geography. The 
influence of geographical distance on friendship has been previously discussed |411I42] , but earlier work on 
Facebook has not examined the country-scale structure of friendships [13]. Speculating, some groupings of 
countries may be better explained by historical and cultural relations than simple geographical distance. 

Discussion 

In this paper, we have characterized the structure of the Facebook social graph using many metrics and 
tools. To our knowledge, our study is the largest structural analysis of a social network performed to 
date. 

We began by characterizing the degree distribution which was shown to be skewed with a large variance 
in friendship count. Unlike many other networks, a pure power-law was seen to be inappropriate for the 
degree distribution of Facebook, although hubs certainly exist. 

The small- world effect and six degrees of separation were then conflrmed on a truly global scale. The 
average distance between vertices of the giant component was found to be 4.7, and we interpret this result 
as indicating that individuals on Facebook have potentially tremendous reach. Shared content only needs 
to advance a few steps across Facebook's social network to reach a substantial fraction of the world's 
population. 

We have found that the Facebook social network is nearly fully connected, has short average path 
lengths, and high clustering. Many other empirical networks, social and non-social, have also been 
observed with these characteristics, and Watts and Strogatz called networks with these properties 'small- 
world networks' [44] . 

Because our friends have more friends than we do, individuals on Facebook have a surprisingly large 
number of friends-of-friends. Further, our friends are highly clustered and our friendships possess dense 
cores, a phenomena not noticed in smaller social networks. This neighborhood structure has substantial 
algorithmic implications for graph traversal computations. Breadth-flrst search out to distance two will 
potentially query a large number of individuals due to positive degree correlation, and then will follow 
many edges to individuals already found due to the clustering. 

We also performed an exploratory comparison of the network structure with user traits including login 
behavior, age, gender, and country. We found interesting mixing patterns, including that 'your friends 
login to Facebook more than you do' and a strong preference for friends of around the same age and from 
the same country. 

Community structure was shown to be clearly evident in the global network, at the scale of friendships 
between and within countries. Countries in turn were seen to themselves exhibit a modular organization, 
largely dictated by geographical distance. Unlike prior studies of networks, this community structure was 
discovered without much effort, indicating the signiflcant structural insights that can be derived from 
basic demographic information. 

While our computations have elucidated many aspects of the structure of the world's largest social 
network, we have certainly not exhausted the possibilities of network analysis. We hope that this in- 



14 



formation is useful both for social science research and for the design of the next-generation of graph 
algorithms and social network analysis techniques. 

Materials and Methods 

Unless otherwise noted, calculations were performed on a Hadoop cluster with 2,250 machines, using the 
Hadoop/Hive data analysis framework developed at Facebook [45ll46j . 

For analyzing network neighborhoods, 5,000 users were randomly selected using reservoir sampling for 
each of 100 log-spaced neighborhood sizes, creating a sample of 500,000 users for which the analysis was 
performed. The percentiles shown for the clustering coefficient and degeneracy for each neighborhood 
size are therefore empirical percentiles from this sample population of 5,000 users. 

To analyze the component structure of the network, we used the Newman-Zipf (NZ) algorithm |47j . 
The NZ algorithm, a type of Union-Find algorithm with path compression, records component structure 
dynamically as edges are added to a network that begins completely empty of edges. When all edges are 
added, the algorithm has computed the component structure of the network. Crucially for our purposes, 
the NZ algorithm does not require the edges to be retained in memory. We apply it to the Facebook 
network on a single computer with 64GB of RAM by streaming over the list of edges. 

For path length calculations, neighborhood functions were computed on a single 24-core machine with 
72 GB of RAM using the Hyper ANF algorithm [48], averaging across 10 runs. For the technical details 
behind this formidable computation, see [27] . 

References 

1. boyd dm, Ellison NB (2007) Social network sites: definition, history, and scholarship. Journal of 
Computer-Mediated Communication 13: 210-230. 

2. Wasserman S, Faust K (1994) Social Network Analysis. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 

3. Bonacich P (1987) Power and centrality: a family of measures. American Journal of Sociology 92: 
1170-1182. 

4. Bearman P, Moody J (2004) Suicide and friendships among American adolescents. American 
Journal of Pubhc Health 94: 89. 

5. Newman M (2010) Networks: An Introduction. Oxford University Press. 

6. Easley D, Kleinberg J (2010) Networks, crowds, and markets: Reasoning about a highly connected 
world. Cambridge University Press. 

7. Ahn YY, Han S, Kwak H, Moon S, Jeong H (2007) Analysis of topological characteristics of huge 
online social networking services. In: Proceedings of the 16th international conference on World 
Wide Web. ACM, pp. 835-844. 

8. Mislove A, Marcon M, Gummadi K, Druschel P, Bhattacharjee B (2007) Measurement and analysis 
of online social networks. In: Proceedings of the 7th ACM SIGCOMM conference on Internet 
measurement. ACM, pp. 29-42. 

9. Mislove A, Koppula H, Gummadi K, Druschel P, Bhattacharjee B (2008) Growth of the Flickr 
social network. In: Proceedings of the first workshop on Online social networks. ACM, pp. 25-30. 

10. Kumar R, Novak J, Tomkins A (2010) Structure and evolution of online social networks. Link 
Mining: Models, Algorithms, and Applications : 337-357. 



15 



11. Kwak H, Lee C, Park H, Moon S (2010) What is Twitter, a social network or a news media? In: 
Proceedings of the 19th international conference on World Wide Web. ACM, pp. 591-600. 

12. Kossinets G, Watts D (2006) Empirical analysis of an evolving social network. Science 311: 88. 

13. Eagle N, Macy M, Claxton R (2010) Network diversity and economic development. Science 328: 
1029. 

14. Leskovee J, Horvitz E (2008) Planetary-scale views on a large instant-messaging network. In: 
Proceeding of the 17th international conference on World Wide Web. ACM, pp. 915-924. 

15. Jiang J, Wilson C, Wang X, Huang P, Sha W, et al. (2010) Understanding latent interactions in 
online social networks. In: Proceedings of the 10th annual conference on Internet measurement. 
ACM, pp. 369-382. 

16. Chang J, Rosenn I, Backstrom L, Marlow C (2010) ePluribus: ethnicity on social networks. In: 
Proceedings of the International conference in weblogs and social media. 

17. Traud A, Kelsic E, Mucha P, Porter M (2008) Community structure in online collegiate social 
networks. Preprint [aFXiv:0809 .0690y2 

18. Lewis K, Kaufman J, Gonzalez M, Wimmer A, Christakis N (2008) Tastes, ties, and time: a new 
social network dataset using Facebook.com. Social Networks 30: 330-342. 

19. Traud A, Mucha P, Porter M (2011) Social structure of Facebook networks. Preprint 
larXiv:1102.2166l 

20. Colder S, Wilkinson D, Huberman B (2007) Rhythms of social interaction: messaging within a 
massive online network. Communities and Technologies 2007 : 41-66. 

21. Viswanath B, Mislove A, Cha M, Cummadi K (2009) On the evolution of user interaction in 
Facebook. In: Proceedings of the 2nd workshop on Online social networks. ACM, pp. 37-42. 

22. Catanese SA, De Meo P, Ferrara E, Fiumara G, Provetti A (2011) Crawling Facebook for social 
network analysis purposes. In: Proceedings of the international conference on Web intelligence, 
mining and semantics. ACM, pp. 52:1-52:8. 

23. Gjoka M, Kurant M, Butts C, Markopoulou A (2010) Walking in Facebook: a case study of unbiased 
sampling of OSNs. In: Proceedings of International conference on computer communications. IEEE, 
pp. 1-9. 

24. Barabasi AL, Albert R (1999) Emergence of scaling in random networks. Science 286: 509-512. 

25. Clauset A, Shalizi CR, Newman MEJ (2009) Power-law distributions in empirical data. SIAM 
Review 51: 661-703. 

26. Travers J, Milgram S (1969) An experimental study of the small world problem. Sociometry 32: 
425-443. 

27. Backstrom L, Boldi P, Rosa M, Ugander J, Vigna S (2012) Four degrees of separation, {in submis- 
sion) . 

28. Bollobas B (2001) Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press. 

29. Eppstein D, Strash D (2011) Listing all maximal cliques in large sparse real-world graphs. Exper- 
imental Algorithms : 364-375. 



16 



30. Feld S (1991) Why your friends have more friends than you do. Ameriean Journal of Sociology 96: 
1464-1477. 

31. Newman MEJ (2002) Assortative mixing in networks. Physical Review Letters 89: 208701. 

32. Newman MEJ (2003) Mixing patterns in networks. Physical Review E 67: 026126. 

33. Pastor- Satorr as R, Vazquez A, Vespignani A (2001) Dynamical and correlation properties of the 
internet. Physical Review Letters 87: 258701. 

34. Zuckerman E, Jost J (2001) What makes you think you're so popular? Self-evaluation maintenance 
and the subjective side of the "friendship paradox". Social Psychology Quarterly : 207-223. 

35. Maslov S, Sneppen K, Zaliznyak A (2004) Detection of topological patterns in complex networks: 
correlation profile of the internet. Physica A 333: 529-540. 

36. McPherson M, Smith-Lovin L, Cook JM (2001) Birds of a feather: homophily in social networks. 
Annual Review of Sociology 27: 415-444. 

37. Newman MEJ, Girvan M (2004) Finding and evaluating community structure in networks. Physical 
Review E 69: 026113. 

38. MoUoy M, Reed B (1995) A critical point for random graphs with a given degree sequence. Random 
Structures and Algorithms 6: 161-179. 

39. Fortunato S (2010) Community detection in graphs. Physics Reports 486: 75-174. 



40. Miniwatts Marketing Group. Internet world statistics, http://www.internetworldstats.com/ 

Accessed October 16, 2011. 

41. Liben-Nowell D, Novak J, Kumar R, Raghavan P, Tomkins A (2005) Geographic routing in social 
networks. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA. 33:11623-11628. 

42. Barthclemy M (2010) Spatial networks. Physics Reports 499: 1-101. 

43. Backstrom L, Sun E, Marlow C (2010) Find me if you can: improving geographical prediction with 
social and spatial proximity. In: Proceedings of the 19th international conference on World Wide 
Web. ACM, pp. 61-70. 

44. Watts DJ, Strogatz SH (1998) Collective dynamics of 'small-world' networks. Nature 393: 440-442. 

45. Thusoo A, Shao Z, Anthony S, Borthakur D, Jain N, et al. (2010) Data warehousing and analytics 
infrastructure at Facebook. In: Proceedings of the 2010 international conference on Management 
of data. ACM, pp. 1013-1020. 

46. Thusoo A, Sarma J, Jain N, Shao Z, Chakka P, et al. (2010) Hive-a petabyte scale data warehouse 
using Hadoop. In: Proceedings of the 26th international conference on Data engineering. IEEE, 
pp. 996-1005. 

47. Newman MEJ, Ziff RM (2001) Fast Monte Carlo algorithm for site or bond percolation. Physical 
Review E 64: 016706. 

48. Boldi P, Rosa M, Vigna S (2011) HyperANF: approximating the neighbourhood function of very 
large graphs on a budget. In: Proceedings of the 20th international conference on World Wide 
Web. ACM, pp. 625-634. 



17 



Country 


ISO code 


Country 


ISO code 


Indonesia 


ID 


United Kingdom 


GB 


Philipines 


PH 


South Africa 


ZA 


Sri Lanka 


LK 


Israel 


IL 


Australia 


AU 


Jordan 


JO 


New Zealand 


NZ 


United Arab Emirates 


AE 


Thailand 


TH 


Kuwait 


KW 


Malaysia 


MY 


Algeria 


DZ 


Singapore 


SG 


Tunisia 


TN 


Hong Kong 


HK 


Italy 


IT 


Taiwan 


TW 


Macedonia 


MK 


United States 


US 


Albania 


AL 


Dominican Republic 


DO 


Serbia 


RS 


Puerto Rico 


PR 


Slovenia 


SI 


Mexico 


MX 


Bosnia and Herzegovina 


BA 


Cauda 


CA 


Croatia 


HR 


Venezuela 


VE 


Turkey 


TR 


Chile 


CL 


Portugal 


PT 


Argentina 


AR 


Belgium 


BE 


Uruguay 


UY 


France 


FR 


Colombia 


CO 


Hungary 


HU 


Costa Rica 


CR 


Ireland 


IE 


Guatemala 


GT 


Denmark 


DK 


Ecuador 


EC 


Norway 


NO 


Peru 


PE 


Sweden 


SE 


Bolivia 


BO 


Czech Republic 


CZ 


Spain 


ES 


Bulgaria 


BG 


Ghana 


GH 


Greece 


GR 



Table 1. ISO country codes used as labels in Figure HI 



