Harvesting  Ego-Network  Data  from  Facebook 

Using  the  CEMAP  Facebook  Profile  in  ORA 


Terrill  L.  Frantz  and  Kathleen  M.  Carley 

February  2,  2009 
CMU-ISR-09-102 


Institute  for  Software  Research 
School  of  Computer  Science 
Carnegie  Mellon  University 
Pittsburgh,  PA  15213 


Center  for  the  Computational  Analysis  of  Social  and  Organizational  Systems 
CASOS  technical  report. 


This  work  is  part  of  the  Dynamics  Networks  project  at  the  center  for  Computational  Analysis  of  Social  and 
Organizational  Systems  (CASOS)  of  the  School  of  Computer  Science  (SCS)  at  Carnegie  Mellon  University 
(CMU).  This  work  is  supported  in  part  by  the  Office  of  Naval  Research  (ONR),  United  States  Navy, 
N00014-06-1-0104.  Additional  support  was  provided  by  National  Science  Foundation  (NSF)  Integrative 
Graduate  Education  and  Research  Traineeship  (IGERT)  program,  NSF  045  2598,  the  Air  Force  Office  of 
Scientific  Research,  FA9550-05- 1-0388  under  a  MURI  on  Computational  Modeling  of  Cultural 
Dimensions  in  Adversary  Organizations,  the  Army  Research  Institute  W91WAW07C0063,  the  Army 
Research  Lab  DAAD 19-0 1-2-0009,  the  Army  Research  Office  W91  INF-07- 1-0060,  and  CASOS.  The 
views  and  proposal  contained  in  this  document  are  those  of  the  author  and  should  not  be  interpreted  as 
representing  the  official  policies,  either  expressed  or  implied,  of  the  Office  of  Naval  Research,  the  Air 
Force  Office  of  Scientific  Research,  the  Army  Research  Institute,  the  Army  Research  Lab,  the  Army 
Research  Office,  the  National  Science  Foundation,  or  the  U.S.  government. 


Report  Documentation  Page 

Form  Approved 

OMB  No.  0704-0188 

Public  reporting  burden  for  the  collection  of  information  is  estimated  to  average  1  hour  per  response,  including  the  time  for  reviewing  instructions,  searching  existing  data  sources,  gathering  and 
maintaining  the  data  needed,  and  completing  and  reviewing  the  collection  of  information.  Send  comments  regarding  this  burden  estimate  or  any  other  aspect  of  this  collection  of  information, 
including  suggestions  for  reducing  this  burden,  to  Washington  Headquarters  Services,  Directorate  for  Information  Operations  and  Reports,  1215  Jefferson  Davis  Highway,  Suite  1204,  Arlington 

VA  22202-4302.  Respondents  should  be  aware  that  notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  law,  no  person  shall  be  subject  to  a  penalty  for  failing  to  comply  with  a  collection  of  information  if  it 
does  not  display  a  currently  valid  OMB  control  number. 

1.  REPORT  DATE 

02  FEB  2009  2  REPORT  TYPE 

3.  DATES  COVERED 

00-00-2009  to  00-00-2009 

4.  TITLE  AND  SUBTITLE 

Harvesting  Ego-Network  Data  from  Facebook.  Using  the  CEMAP 
Facebook  Profile  in  ORA 

5a.  CONTRACT  NUMBER 

5b.  GRANT  NUMBER 

5c.  PROGRAM  ELEMENT  NUMBER 

6.  AUTHOR(S) 

5d.  PROJECT  NUMBER 

5e.  TASK  NUMBER 

5f.  WORK  UNIT  NUMBER 

7.  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION  NAME(S)  AND  ADDRESS(ES) 

Carnegie  Mellon  University, Institute  for  Software  Research, School  of 
Computer  Science, Pittsburgh, PA, 15213 

8.  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION 

REPORT  NUMBER 

9.  SPONSORING/MONITORING  AGENCY  NAME(S)  AND  ADDRESS(ES) 

10.  SPONSOR/MONITOR'S  ACRONYM(S) 

11.  SPONSOR/MONITOR'S  REPORT 
NUMBER(S) 

12.  DISTRIBUTION/AVAILABILITY  STATEMENT 

Approved  for  public  release;  distribution  unlimited 

13.  SUPPLEMENTARY  NOTES 

14.  ABSTRACT 

see  report 

15.  SUBJECT  TERMS 

16.  SECURITY  CLASSIFICATION  OF:  17.  LIMITATION  OF 

_ _ _  ABSTRACT 

18.  NUMBER  19a.  NAME  OF 

OF  PAGES  RESPONSIBLE  PERSON 

a.  REPORT  b.  ABSTRACT  c.  THIS  PAGE  Same  OS 

unclassified  unclassified  unclassified  Report  (SAR) 

26 

Standard  Form  298  (Rev.  8-98) 

Prescribed  by  ANSI  Std  Z39-18 


Keywords:  Facebook,  CEMAP,  social  network,  ORA,  dynamic  network  analysis 


Abstract 


The  Facebook  social  networking  site  (www.facebook.com)  has  become  a  popular 
phenomenon  over  the  past  five  years.  By  its  nature,  Facebook  has  attracted  the  attention 
of  social  network  researchers  and  enthusiasts  as  a  rich  source  of  data  for  scholarly  study 
or  personal  self-analysis.  It  is  fitting  that  the  CEMAP  software-tool,  hosted  by  the 
CASOS  software  suite,  has  functionality  to  aid  in  the  harvesting  of  Facebook  data  into 
the  CASOS  software,  in  particular,  into  the  ORA  social  network  analysis  tool.  CEMAP  is 
designed  to  interface  with  real-world  data  platforms  and  data  formats  in  an  abstract 
manner  that  greatly  reduces  the  need  for  ORA  users  to  understand  and  deal  with  the 
plethora  of  complex  technologies  and  data-file  formats.  This  report  introduces  the 
CEMAP  Facebook  profile  and  provides  instruction  on  how  to  use  the  profile — so  as  to 
easily  load  an  individual’s  Facebook  ego-network  into  ORA.  We  provide  step-by-step 
instructions  and  illustrations  as  well  as  a  description  on  the  technology  underlying  the 
Facebook  tableset.  The  Facebook  tableset  is  the  CEMAP  abstraction  of  the  various  levels 
of  technology  to  harvest  the  social  network  data,  via  the  Facebook  developer  platform. 


iv 


Table  of  Contents 


1  Introduction . 2 

1.1  CEMAP . 3 

1.2  Facebook.com . 4 

2  Using  the  CEMAP  Facebook  Profile . 4 

2.1  Authenticating  with  Facebook . 5 

2.2  Performing  the  CEMAP  Process . 8 

3  Underlying  Technology . 20 

3.1  CEMAP . 20 

3.2  Facebook’ s  Developer  Platform . 21 

4  Future  Work . 22 

5  References . 22 


1  Introduction 

The  Facebook  social  networking  site  (www.facebook.com)  has  become  a  popular 
phenomenon  over  the  past  five  years.  The  site  boosts  millions  of  users  from  around  the 
globe.  By  its  nature,  Facebook  has  attracted  the  attention  of  social  network  researchers 
and  enthusiasts  as  a  rich  source  of  data  for  scholarly  study  or  personal  self-analysis. 
Unfortunately,  to  the  average  Facebook  user,  the  ability  to  access  their  Facebook-based 
network  of  connections  in  a  manner  that  allows  for  analysis,  either  visual  or  statistical,  is 
out  of  their  reach.  Currently,  Facebook  does  not  provide  an  avenue  for  the  non- 
technology-savvy  user  to  harvest  their  personal  network  data  from  Facebook  and  into 
social  network  analysis  tools.  Facebook  does,  however,  have  an  application  called 
friendwheel  that  does  provide  a  simplistic  circle-formatted  visualization  of  their  network. 
Unfortunately,  this  simple  application,  which  is  embedded  in  the  Facebook  web  platform, 
does  not  provide  even  the  newest  social  network  analysis  with  much  flexibility  or  power; 
it  certainly  does  not  facilitate  any  statistical  analysis  of  the  network,  whatsoever. 

Fortunately,  Facebook  does  make  available  a  software  developers  platform  that 
allows  for  the  technology- savvy  to  access  data  via  an  API.  The  set  if  APIS  greatly  limit 
the  extent  of  the  data  that  is  available  through  software,  though  it  does  allow  for 
accessing  the  ego-network  of  the  user.  The  API  allows  software,  with  the  user’s 
password-protected  permission,  to  construct  a  listing  of  the  user’s  friends,  and  the 
friends’  friends.  This  essentially,  formulates  the  user’s  ego-network  at  a  distance  of  two. 
Figure  1  illustrates  what  a  Facebook  ego-network  would  look  like  graphically  (this 
graphic  is  constructed  using  this  CEMAP  Facebook  profile  and  ORA  described  herein). 


Facebook  Profile 


powered  by  ORA,  CAS  OS  Center  @  CMU 


Figure  1.  A  ego-network  from  Facebook  (Node  names  have  been  removed  for 
publication  purposes) 


2 


The  CEMAP  Facebook  profile  makes  the  process  of  obtaining  the  data  from  Facebook, 
using  APIs  making  up  the  Facebook  developers  platform,  a  simple  1-2-3  process.  The 
step-by-step  instructions  are  provided  in  Section  2  of  this  document.  CEMAP  is  a  feature 
of  the  CASOS  suite  of  software  tools  that  greatly  simplifies  the  harvesting  of  data  from 
real-world  sources  into  the  CASOS  software  suite,  which  consists  of  a  network  analysis 
tool  (ORA),  a  text  information  extraction  tool  (AutoMap)  and  a  computer  simulation  tool 
(Construct).  CEMAP 

It  is  fitting  that  the  CEMAP  software-tool,  hosted  by  the  CASOS  software  suite, 
has  functionality  to  aid  in  the  harvesting  of  Facebook  data  into  the  CASOS  software,  in 
particular,  into  the  ORA  social  network  analysis  tool.  CEMAP  is  designed  to  interface 
with  real-world  data  platforms  and  data  formats  in  an  abstract  manner  that  greatly 
reduces  the  need  for  ORA  users  to  understand  and  deal  with  the  plethora  of  complex 
technologies  and  data-file  formats.  This  report  introduces  the  CEMAP  Facebook  profile 
and  provides  instruction  on  how  to  use  the  profile — so  as  to  easily  load  an  individual’s 
Facebook  ego-network  into  ORA.  We  provide  step-by-step  instructions  and  illustrations 
as  well  as  a  description  on  the  technology  underlying  the  Facebook  tableset.  The 
Facebook  tableset  is  the  CEMAP  abstraction  of  the  various  levels  of  technology  to 
harvest  the  social  network  data,  via  the  Facebook  developer  platform. 

1.1  CEMAP 

One  can  easily  foresee  that  much  of  a  social  network  analyst’s  time  is  spent  on  messaging 
their  raw  data  to  fit  nework  software  requirements,  which  leaves  little  precious  time  for 
the  true  value-add  of  the  analysis  step.  By  themselves,  the  analytic  tools  developed  at  the 
Center  for  Computational  Analysis  of  Social  and  Organizational  Systems  (CASOS)  do 
not  differ  from  this  data  processing  requirement.  The  tools  included  in  the  CASOS  suite 
(Carley,  Diesner,  Reminga,  &  Tsvetovat,  2004)  consist  of  the  Organizational  Risk 
Analyzer  (ORA;  Carley  &  Reminga,  2004),  AutoMap  (Diesner  &  Carley,  2004),  and 
Construct  (Carley,  1991).  CEMAP  addressed  and  provides  a  solution  for  this 
overbearing  real-world  data  processing  problem  specifically  for  users  of  the  CASOS  suite 
of  tools,  by  describing  a  simply,  yet  powerful,  process  for  bridging  the  two  separate 
worlds  of  data  and  analytic  software. 

CEMAP  II’s  purpose  is  to  transform  real-world  data  into  relational  network  data 
that  can  be  used  by  ORA.  ORA  operates  on  data  in  the  DyNetMF  format.  DyNetMF 
(Tsvetovat,  Reminga,  &  Carley,  2003)  is  the  XMF-based  document  markup  language  that 
ORA  relies  upon.  It  is  this  format  that  allows  for  fully  representation  of  the  meta-network 
data  and  serves  as  the  native  input  format  of  ORA.  Producing  network  data  in  this 
DyNetMF  format  is  a  primary  purpose  of  CEMAP  II.  An  extension  to  DyNetMF  for 
ORA’s  EOOM  feature  (Davis,  Olsen,  &  Carley,  2008),  call  walksets  is  also  an  output  of 
CEMAP  II.  CEMAP  II  will  be  expandable  so  as  DyNetML  changes,  so  can  CEMAP  II. 

Is  it  not  the  purpose  of  this  report  to  fully  articulate  CEMAP  and  describe  its 
features.  A  full  description  of  its  purpose,  architecture,  and  implementation  is  provided 
elsewhere  (see  Frantz  &  Carley,  2008),  as  is  a  report  on  details  of  its  technology  (Frantz 
&  Carley,  2009)  and  use  (DeReno,  Frantz  &  Carley,  2009).  See  these  other  documents 
for  much  more  detail  about  CEMAP. 

CEMAP  is  available  as  a  menu  item  in  both  ORA  and  AutoMap,  but  can  also  be 
executed  independently  as  a  stand-alone  interactive  program,  or  as  a  stand-alone,  scripted 


3 


batch  program.  The  primary  purpose  of  CEMAP  is  to  prepare  and  format  raw  source- 
data  for  use  as  relational  network  input  data  files  for  ORA,  or  unstructured  text  input  files 
for  AutoMap;  although  CEMAP  can  also  produce  formatted  output  data  files  for  other 
purposes,  e.g.  input  to  Excel,  etc.  CEMAP’s  interactive  interface  provides  a  simplistic 
process  for  analysts  to  prepare  their  source  data  in  either,  a  stable  and  routine  manner,  or 
in  a  frequently  changing,  exploratory  manner.  With  ease,  the  user  can  repeatedly  process 
the  source  data  while  tweaking  the  resulting  output  to  their  specifications.  Once  the 
CEMAP  II  process  is  producing  the  desired  results,  the  profile  for  the  process  can  be 
saved  for  easy  re-use  at  a  later  time,  by  an  individual  or  a  specific  group  of  users. 

The  key  to  CEMAP’s  effectiveness  is  the  method  in  which  it  separates  the 
physical  characteristics  of  the  source  data,  which  is  often  the  domain  of  computer 
programmers,  from  the  characteristics  of  the  stylized,  reformatted  meta-network  and 
unstructured  data  necessary  for  analysis,  either  in  ORA  or  AutoMap.  These  two  very 
different  perspectives  on  data  are  joined  together,  as  is  necessary,  by  a  simple  drag-and- 
drop  mapping  process  that  conjoins  the  source  data  which  is  viewed  as  straightforward, 
row-column  structured  tables,  and  the  output  data  format  -  usually  DyNetML  or  text 
files. 

The  cornerstone  of  CEMAP  is  the  process  by  which  the  user  indicates  the  source 
of  the  data  that  is  transformed  into  the  format  specified  by  a  template.  This  data  is  made 
available  to  CEMAP  via  a  table  defined  in  a  tableset.  The  process  by  which  the  output 
template  is  associated  with  the  tableset  table  is  call  “mapping.”  The  mapping  process  is 
simplistic  with  very  few,  but  strict,  rules.  The  user  will  have  a  flexible  drag  and  drop 
mechanism  in  the  CEMAP  GUI  to  carry  out  the  mapping  process.  To  set  the  mappings 
for  a  profile,  the  user  will  identify  the  template  field  that  they  are  working  on  -  the  output 
field  in  the  DyNetML  or  unstructured  text  file.  In  the  case  of  DyNetML  file,  this  output 
field  could  be  a  node,  a  node  attribute,  a  link,  or  a  LOOM  walkset,  among  other  common 
possibilities.  Next  the  user  indicates  the  specific  table  that  contains  the  data  that  should 
be  mapped  to  the  output  field.  Once  the  table  is  identified,  a  specific  column  is  selected 
and  it  is  this  exact  column,  table,  and  tableset  combination  that  is  associated  with  the 
output  field.  Once  mapped,  a  complete  profile  has  been  created,  which  can  be  stored  for 
later  use,  or  executed  immediately. 

1.2  Facebook.com 

Facebook  is  a  very  popular  social  networking  website  that  came  to  bear  in  February 
2004,  and  now  just  five  years  later  its  membership  is  up  to  42  million  users 
(iStrategyLabs,  2009).  Details  about  Facebook  is  well-known  and  available  on  their 
website  Facebook  (2009)  and  Wikipedia  (2009);  instead  of  repeating  information,  that  is 
still  evolving  rapidly,  we  suggest  visiting  these  sites  for  more  background  information  on 
Facebook  social  networking  and  its  features. 


2  Using  the  CEMAP  Facebook  Profile 

This  section  provides  step-by-step  instructions  on  how  to  use  the  CEMAP  Facebook 
profile  in  ORA  to  harvest  your  Facebook  data.  There  are  two  steps:  (a)  authenticating  the 
user  with  Facebook,  and  (b)  performing  the  CEMAP  process. 


4 


2.1  Authenticating  with  Facebook 

Facebook  only  allows  access  to  data  to  users  logged  into  the  Facebook.com  site,  this 
requirement  is  both  for  an  individual’s  authentication  and  authorization.  Accessing 
Facebook  data  through  channels  different  from  using  a  browser  to  connect  the 
Facebook.com  website  is  no  different;  the  user  needs  to  be  identified  and  authorization 
granted.  In  order  for  the  CEMAP  software  to  access  your  Facebook  account  and  portions 
your  friends’  information,  you  must  first  log  into  Facebook  through  accessing  the 
Facebook.com  website  within  an  Internet  browser. 

To  facilitate  non-Facebook  applications,  like  CEMAP,  access  to  Facebook  data 
without  putting  the  users’  Facebook  passwords  at  risk,  there  is  a  process  that  a  user  must 
go  through  to  obtain  a  special,  and  temporary,  access  key  string  that  the  software 
application  must  then  present  to  Facebook,  via  an  API,  to  access  the  user’s  data.  The 
application  software  that  accesses  the  user’s  data  can  only  have  access  to  the  data  while 
the  user  is  actually  logged  into  Facebook.  The  special  key  that  the  user  obtains,  expires 
when  the  user  logs  out  of  the  Facebook.com  session,  (note:  the  user  need  not  keep 
Facebook.com  in  a  browser,  they  can  close  their  browser  windows,  without  logging  out 
of  Facebook.com) 

Before  using  CEMAP  to  access  Facebook  data,  the  following  process  must  be 
followed.  This  procedure  need  only  to  be  followed  once  during  a  users’  Facebook.com 
login  session.  If  for  any  reason  the  user  logouts,  or  becomes  logged  out,  of 
Facebook.com,  these  steps  will  need  to  be  performed  again  in  order  to  obtain  a  new 
access  key  string.  These  steps  result  in  the  user  being  provided  a  special  key  string  that 
must  be  presented  to  CEMAP  in  order  for  the  CEMAP  software  to  access  the  data  in  your 
Facebook  account. 


STEP  1:  Open  a  browser  window  and  go  to  URL: 

http://deepthought.casos.cs.cmu.edu/free/cemap/facebook/ 

The  page  shown  below  will  appear.  (Note:  this  URL  can  be  subject  to  change.  The  URL 
will  always  be  in  the  CEMAP  Facebook  Profile  notes  (see  Step  4  in  the  next  section.) 


5 


STEP  2:  Left-click  the  blue  “Connect”  button. 


If  you  are  NOT  already  logged  into  Facebook,  a  browser  window  will  open  asking  you  to 
log  in  to  Facebook.com  and  give  permission  for  CEMAP  to  access  your  data.  If  you  are 
already  logged  in  to  Facebook,  you  will  not  see  this  page,  instead  you  will  see  the  page 
that  follows:  you  will  NOT  need  to  perform  STEP  2. 

STEP  3:  (If  not  already  logged  on)  Log  into  the  Facebook  site  using  your  Facebook  email 
id  and  Facebook  password. 


3  Login  |  Facebook  -  Microsoft  Internet  Explorer 


Address  [¥  http :  //www .  connect .  facebook.  com/login .  php?return s  ^  |  Q 


facebook 


Go 


^Jnjxj 

* 


Connect  CAS05  CEMAPII  with  Facebook  to  interact  with  your  friends  on  this  site 
and  to  share  stories  on  Facebook  through  your  Wall  and  friends'  News  Feeds. 
This  site  will  also  be  able  to  automatically  post  one-line  stories  back  to  Facebook. 


CASOS 

CEMAPII 

Bring  your  friends  and  info 

facebook 

n 

n 

Post  stories  to  your  Wall 

: 

Email: 

Password: 


By  proceeding,  you  are  agreeing  to  the  Facebook  Platform  User  Terms  of  Service. 


Sign  up  for  Facebook  [ 

Connect 

Cancel  | 

^rj  Done  £  Internet 

6 


If  all  is  okay,  you  will  then  be  presented  with  a  simple  page  in  the  browser  that  looks  like 
the  picture  below. 

STEP  4:  You  want  to  make  note  of  the  lengthy  string;  in  this  case  the  string  is 
3 . qavlToYpmUMUM8k5pShlEA  . 86400 . 1233349200-577381994 
This  long  string  of  characters  is  a  world-unique  key  that  you  provide  to  CEMAP  and  is 
then  used  by  CEMAP,  and  only  CEMAP,  to  access  your  Facebook  temporality,  and  only 
while  you  are  actually  logged  into  Facebook.com.  Keep  this  screen  available  to  you  when 
you  are  in  the  CEMAP  process  below.  You  will  want  to  cut  and  paste  this  string  rather 
than  having  to  write  it  down,  et  cetera.  If  you  lose  this  string,  you  can  simply  reperform 
this  complete  process,  starting  with  Step  1. 


7 


2.2  Performing  the  CEMAP  Process 

There  are  three  essential  steps  the  user  ultimately  must  perform:  (a)  identify  the 
input  tablesets,  (b)  identify  the  output  templates,  and  (c)  set  up  mapping  between  the 
columns  of  the  tables  in  the  tablesets  and  the  requirements  of  the  various  output  template 
fields.  However,  these  steps  can  be  combined  and  hidden  from  a  user  such  that  a 
simplistic  two-click  process  may  be  situated. 


STEP  1:  Start  the  ORA  program  via  the  Windows  Program  menu  (other  operating 
systems  dependent  process  you  use  to  start  programs) 


*ORA 


(c)  2001  -  2008  Kathleen  M  Carley 
Carnegie  Mellon  University 
All  Rights  Reserved 

Loading.. 


8 


STEP  2:  Select  the  File->CEMAP  II  menu  option. 


The  CEMAP  window  pain  will  appear  over  top  the  ORA  window,  as  shown  below. 


j  B  Qj  Personal  Local  Profiles 
B ■■•Q  Personal  Deepthought  Profiles 
a  CD  SYSTEM _prof«e_DEFAULTS 
Hi  B  CD  LabelFolder 
I  E  -  CD  Build-in  Profiles 
|  B  CD  Local  Disk  Explorer 


Select  Profile  | 

ProfSe  |  Template  |  Tableset  |  Table  |  Field  |  Execution  |  ProfileTree  | 


Action  Message:  | 
Profile  ru 


Close  All  Font  s: 


«r- 


:  USER  CUSTOM  PROFILE 
passwords  will  be  saved 


ad...  | 


-a  ”  ig>R-l  g)T...|  £|i...|  Qc...|  gc..,|  a]...|  ^c...|  Qe... 


3:39  Pf 


9 


STEP  3:  Left-click  the  “Build-in  Profiles”  item  (Note:  your  particular  profiles  window 
may  have  different  items  shown.  You  will  at  least  see  “Build-in  Profiles”  and  “Local 
Disk  Explorer”.) 


10 


The  item  list  will  expand  as  shown  below. 


11 


STEP  4:  Left-click  the  “facebook”  item  so  that  it  becomes  highlighted. 


12 


The  Profile  note  panel  will  change  and  display  some  user  notes  and  useful  information. 


You  have  now  loaded  the  special  CEMAP  Facebook  profile  into  the  CEMAP  memory 
and  you  are  ready  to  execute  the  process  for  collecting  your  data  from  Facebook  for 


ORA. 


13 


STEP  5:  Left  click  the  “Execute”  button.  The  Profile  notes  panel  will  turn  yellow  (to 
indicate  that  the  execution  has  begun)  and  state  that  CEMAP  is  executing. 


14 


A  small  window  will  appear  that  is  expecting  a  network  output  file  name.  This  filename 
is  not  necessary  because  CEMAP  is  running  in  ORA.  The  output  network  will  be  loaded 
directly  into  ORA’s  memory,  so  you  need  not  indicate  a  disk  file  location  for  the  output. 
Optionally,  you  could  Select  File  and  indicate  an  output  file  name;  the  network  file  will 
still  be  loaded  into  ORA  under  either  scenario.  Complete  the  Select  File  process  before 
taking  the  next  step. 


STEP  6:  Feft-click  the  Continue  button. 


The  window  will  close  and  another  small  window  will  then  appear,  as  shown  below 


15 


STEP  7:  Enter  the  special  access  key  string  obtained  in  the  Facebook  authentication 
process  (see  prior  sub-section  of  this  document)  into  the  third  field  in  the  window  (the  red 
field).  Do  not  change  the  other  fields.  You  can  cut  and  paste  this  string  from  the  browser 
window  that  provided  the  key  earlier.  Note:  In  some  systems,  you  may  need  to  use  cntrl-v 
to  actually  paste  the  string  into  this  field  rather  than  righ-clicking  the  mouse. 


STEP  8:  Left-click  the  “Continue”  button. 

Now  that  you  have  supplied  the  information  necessary  for  obtaining  data  from  Facebook, 
CEMAP  is  now  going  to  Facebook  and  asking  for  the  information.  A  small  window  will 
appear  that  presented  this  process  is  underway.  This  window  is  shown  below. 


16 


When  the  data  collection  process  is  finished.  The  progress  window  will  close  and  an  alert 
will  be  put  on  the  screen  that  looks  like  below.  If  this  process  takes  more  than  1-2 
minutes,  there  is  a  problem  with  the  process  and  the  user  should  try  the  process  again.  If 
still  no  success,  technical  support  will  need  to  get  involved  to  diagnose  the  problem. 


STEP  9:  Left-click  the  “OK”  button.  The  CEMAP  window  will  remain. 


17 


STEP  10:  If  all  was  successful,  you  will  see  the  network  data  appear  on  the  ORA  data 
panel  (which  is  behind  the  CEMAP  window).  Now,  close  the  CEMAP  window  by  left- 
clicking  the  “Close”  button.  You  will  now  see  the  main  ORA  window  as  shown  below. 


STEP  11:  To  see  the  structure  of  the  new  network  file,  left-click  the  tab  for  the 
“Facebook  Profile”  item  and  the  nodeclass  and  network  tabs  will  appear  as  can  be  seen 
below.  This  network  data  is  fully  loaded  into  ORA  and  you  can  now  do  what  you  like 
with  it.  If  not  familiar  with  ORA  usage,  try  the  online  help  for  a  quick  tutorial  and 
feature  references. 


18 


STEP  12:  Assuming  you  want  to  have  a  quick  look  at  your  Facebook  network,  left-click 
the  “Visualize”  button. 


And,  if  all  has  gone  well,  congratulations,  your  Facebook  ego-network  should  appear  as 
is  illustrated  in  the  sample  below.  (For  this  picture,  the  node  ids,  or  my  friends  names, 
have  been  removed;  your  names  will  likely  appear  automatically — depending  on  your 
current  ORA  settings. 


Facebook  Profile  -  ORA  Network  Visualizer 


JSIxJ 


File  Actions  Tools  Layouts  Options  Help 


1  ita 

►  II  Rotate Q 

Show  Labels 

Show  Links 

Show  Arrows  Font  Size  |  lO^-j  Node  Size  |  8^  Link  Width  |  2-jJ  “eta  £ 

* 

|Hide  links  with  weight:  ▼  [ 

Less  Than  ▼  |  |  O.Q-j-j 

8 


t]|«  10:17  A 

ty 


3  Underlying  Technology 

The  CEMAP  Facebook  ego-network  data  harvesting  capability  is  possible  from  a 
interaction  between  two  core  technologies:  CEMAP  and  the  Facebook  Developer 
Platform.  The  role  of  the  Facebook  Developer  Platform  is  to  make  a  subset  of  Facebook 
data  available  to  third-party  software,  though  the  specific  data  that  is  available  is  merely  a 
small  portion  of  the  data  maintained  by  a  user,  and  is  strictly  restricted  by  extending  to 
only  the  data  a  single  Facebook  user  can  access.  The  role  of  the  CEMAP  software  is  to 
deal  with  the  technical  aspects  of  accessing  this  Facebook  data  and  manipulating  the  data 
into  a  format  necessary  for  use  in  ORA.  This  section  provides  some  of  the  background  of 
these  two  technologies  as  it  pertains  to  the  Facebook  CEMAP  profile. 


3.1  CEMAP 

The  entire  design  of  CEMAP  II  takes  advantage  of  the  notion  that  data  stored  in  a  tabular 
form  has  an  inherent  characteristic  that  each  data  item  in  a  row  is  related  in  some 
comprehendible  manner  to  any  other  data  item  in  that  same  row.  Since  network  data  is 
essentially  all  about  relational  data,  therefore,  any  pair  of  data  items  in  the  same  row  can 
form  a  link  in  a  network.  In  short,  given  a  table  of  data,  each  column  can  be  the  source 
for  a  DyNetMF  nodeclass,  and  each  pair  of  data  items  in  a  row  (or  column  by  column) 
can  be  the  source  for  a  DyNetMF  network.  It  is  this  inherent  characteristic  of  a  data  table 
that  CEMAP  takes  advantage  of.  CEMAP  provides  features  to  convert  real-world  data 
into  a  tabular  form  and  to  describe  DyNetMF  and  AutoMap  formats  in  a  simplistic 
manner.  CEMAP  then  facilitates  the  mapping  of  the  tabular  data  into  the  output  format 
according  to  the  desires  of  the  analyst.  Essentially,  CEMAP  conveniently  separates  the 
technical  task  of  formatting  real-world  data  into  a  generic,  consistent  and  easy  to 
understand  table  from  the  network-centric  vantage  point  that  an  analyst  holds,  then 
provides  a  simple  mapping  mechanism  to  join  the  two  representations. 

There  are  four  primary  component  parts  to  the  CEMAP  architecture  and  user- 
design  that  even  than  the  most  basic  user  (a  user  that  only  is  concerned  with  completed 
profiles)  of  CEMAP  should  be  somewhat  familiar  with.  A  template  is  a  description  of  an 
output  format  from  CEMAP.  These  outputs  most  often  consist  of  DyNetML  templates, 
but  there  are  numerous  output  templates  that  describe  other  output  formats.  Most  of  the 
output  templates  can  be  customized  in  some  manner,  according  to  the  designer  of  the 
template.  For  example  a  DyNetML  template  allows  the  user  to  add,  delete  or  change  the 
characteristics,  of  a  nodeclass,  or  network,  among  other  several  features  of  ample 
flexibility.  The  user  has  a  great  amount  of  flexibility  in  the  flat  file  template  as  they  are 
not  constrained  by  the  strict  requirements  of  DyNetML.  For  example,  a  template  can  be 
customized  to  allow  for  the  user  to  create  a  CSV  file  to  import  the  output  data  into  an 
Excel  spreadsheet.  This  is  merely  by-product  of  the  CEMAP  II  feature  set,  which  is 
designed  expressly  for  the  CASOS  software  suite. 

A  tableset  is  a  collection  of  tables  that  logically  belong  together  either  in  the 
manner  in  which  the  original  data  is  stored,  or  from  the  perspective  of  the  user.  For 
example,  a  collection  of  SQL  statements  involving  a  single  database  host  and  password, 


20 


etc,  can  situation  for  a  tableset,  with  each  table  corresponding  to  an  SQL  statement,  but 
with  the  same  characteristics  as  the  other  tables  within  the  same  tableset.  A  tableset 
translates  the  physical  data  source  into  a  row-column  oriented  table  that  can  be  mapped 
with  one  or  more  other  tables  or  template.  A  tableset  takes  much.,  most,  or  all  of  the 
complexity  out  of  a  user  reaching  an  original  data  source  for  their  subsequent 
ORA/AutoMap  analysis. 

A  profile  is  a  file  whose  main  role  is  to  keep  the  completed  mappings  of  a  tableset 
and  template(s).  There  are  usually  the  three  logical  aspects  of  a  process  fully  defined 
within  it.  This  is  a  CEMAP  II  file  that  has  a  set  of  template(s),  a  set  of  tableset(s),  and  the 
mapping  between  the  two.  A  mapping  without  a  tableset  is  impossible.  A  mapping  is 
always  associated  with  a  template.  The  profile  can  have  any,  all,  or  none  of  the  fields 
within  the  template,  tableset  completed,  or  have  the  matching  completed.  A  profile  might 
correspond  with  a  routine  task  that  the  user  has  to  perform  often  or  periodically.  The 
profile  is  meant  to  “remember”  all  of  the  details  pertinent  to  the  CEMAP  II  task,  also 
some  details  can  be  purposely  left  unsatisfied  by  the  creator  of  the  profile  (the  actual 
name-location  of  the  output  file,  perhaps,  among  other  things  like  high-confidential 
passwords  and  such). 

A  resource  is  a  mapping  of  a  physical  file,  data  or  CEMAP  specific  file  (profile, 
tableset,  template,  or  other  resource  file),  that  the  user  has  access  to.  This  resource  can 
reside  anywhere  reachable  to  the  user’s  computer,  e.g.  local  disks,  the  Internet,  etc.  The 
function  of  a  resource  is  to  simplify  the  reaching  of  the  file  to  the  user.  That  is  it  saves  the 
user  from  remembering  long  URL’s  or  file  paths,  etc. 


3.2  Facebook’s  Developer  Platform 

The  Facebook  Developers  Platform  provides  APIs  that  third-party  software  programs  can 
use  to  access  user  data.  For  complete  information  on  the  platform,  visit  Facebook.com 
for  the  latest  and  detailed  information.  This  section  speaks  to  only  the  APIs  that  CEMAP 
uses  in  the  Facebook  CEMAP  profile. 

CEMAP  uses  the  REST-like  API  interface  to  Facebook.  HTTP  POST  requests  are 
constructed  and  sent  to  Facebook,  which  in  turn  returns  the  results  in  an  XML  package 
that  gets  parsed  into  the  table-row  format  necessary  for  CEMAP  processing.  CEMAP 
first  sends  a  getUID  request  to  obtain  the  userid  for  the  user.  It  hen  makes  a 
ge  1 1  n  f  o  request  for  each  friend  to  obtain  their  name  from  each  friend  id.  Next  a 
f  riends_get  request  is  made  for  that  user  to  obtain  the  list  of  friends  for  the  user;  this 
results  in  the  ego-network  data.  Then  the  f  riends_areFriends  request  is  made 
with  a  full  list  of  pairs  of  the  friends  with  results  in  identifying  the  ties  between  pairs  of 
the  friends.  This  is  as  far  as  Facebook  will  permission  the  APIs  to  reach  in  the 
egonetwork,  so  the  CEMAP  process  stops  there. 

The  process  to  obtain  the  user’s  session  Key  string  is  a  webpage  that  interfaces 
with  Facebook  using  Javascript.  This  page  executes  the  Facebook  init  and 
getSessionState  methods.  Which,  if  and  when  successful,  returns  a  response  via  an 
HTTP  GET  call  to  a  CGI  script.  When  this  CGI  script  is  executed  on  the  server,  it  parses 
the  URL  string  that  made  up  the  call  to  itself  looking  for  the  session_key  keyword 
and  its  paired  value  from  the  GET  string.  The  string  is  then  displayed  in  the  browser 
window  for  the  user. 


21 


4  Future  Work 


The  CEMAP  Facebook  profile  is  severely  limited  in  what  data  it  can  access  from 
Facebook  and  this  is  entirely  at  the  discretion  of  Facebook.  CEMAP  can  only  provide 
what  data  is  permitted  by  the  Facebook  host,  via  APIs.  There  are  a  few  fields  for 
individuals  that  are  currently  available  from  Facebook  that  is  not  yet  part  of  the  CEMAP 
implementation.  For  example,  users’  hometown- location,  gender,  and  their  location  (city 
and  state)  are  available;  this  attribute  data  will  be  made  part  of  the  CEMAP 
implementation  in  the  future,  assuming  that  Facebook  keeps  these  data  available  to 
developers  via  the  APIs. 


5  References 

Carley,  Kathleen.  (1991).  A  Theory  of  Group  Stability.  American  sociological 
Review,  56,  331-354. 

Carley,  Kathleen,  Diesner,  Jana,  Reminga,  Jeffrey,  Tsvetovat,  Max.  (2004). 
Interoperability  of  Dynamic  Network  Analysis  Software. 

Carley,  Kathleen  &  Reminga,  Jeffrey.  (2004).  ORA:  Organization  Risk  Analyzer. 
Carnegie  Mellon  University,  School  of  Computer  Science,  Institute  for  Software 
Research  International,  Technical  Report  CMU-ISRI-04-106. 

Davis,  George  B.,  Olson,  Jamie,  &  Carley,  Kathleen  M.  (2008).  OraGIS  and  Foom: 
Spatial  and  Temporal  Extensions  to  the  ORA  Analysis  Platform.  Carnegie  Mellon 
University,  School  of  Computer  Science,  Institute  for  Software  Research 
International,  Technical  Report  CMU-ISR-08-121. 

Diesner,  Jana  &  Carley,  Kathleen.  (2004).  AutoMapl.2  -  Extract,  analyze,  represent, 
and  compare  mental  models  from  texts.  Carnegie  Mellon  University,  School  of 
Computer  Science,  Institute  for  Software  Research  International,  Technical 
Report  CMU-ISRI-04- 100. 

Facebook  (2009).  www.facebook.com  Retrieved  on  29  January,  2009. 

Frantz,  Terrill  &  Carley,  Kathleen.  (2008).  CEMAP  II:  An  Architecture  and 

Specifications  to  Facilitate  the  Importing  of  Real-Worlcl  Data  into  the  CASOS 
Software  Suite.  Carnegie  Mellon  University,  School  of  Computer  Science, 
Institute  for  Software  Research,  Technical  Report  CMU-ISR-08-130. 

iStrategyFabs,  www.istrategylabs.com  (2009).  2009  Facebook  Demographics  and 
Statistics  Report:  276%  Growth  in  35-54  Year  Old  Users.  Retrieved  on  29 
January  2009,  http://www.istrategylabs.com/2009-facebook-demographics-and- 
statistics-report-276-growth-in-35-54-year-old-users/. 

Wikipedia  (2009).  Facebook.  Retrieved  on  29  January,  2009, 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Facebook. 

Tsvetovat,  Max  &  Reminga,  Jeffrey  &  Carley,  Kathleen.  (2003).  DyNetMF: 

Interchange  Format  for  Rich  Social  Network  Data.  NAACSOS  Conference  2003, 
Day  2,  Electronic  Publication,  Pittsburgh,  PA. 


22 


