Social  Network  Privacy 

Overcoming  Facebook  policies  that  put  users  at  risk 


By  CW3  Elbert  Peak 

Facing  the  Facebook 
Privacy  Dilemma 

On-line  social  networking  has 
benefits  but  also  risks  to  be  con¬ 
sidered  when  using  such  sites  as 
Facebook. 

Internet  privacy  threats  are 
a  challenge  that  is  impossible  to 
completely  mitigate  on  every  social 
network,  but  there  are  steps  one 
can  take  to  significantly  reduce  the 
risks. 

The  Rise  of  Facebook 

Facebook  is  one  of  the  largest 
web  sites  in  the  world.  The  site 
was  started  in  2004  by  Mark  Zucker- 
berg  when  he  was  an  undergraduate 
student  at  Harvard.  The  site  grew 
rapidly  to  include  hundreds  of  mil¬ 
lions  of  users. 

Since  September  2006,  anyone 
over  the  age  of  13  with  a  valid  e- 
mail  address  can  join  Facebook  as 
a  user.  Users  can  add  friends  and 
send  messages  and  announcements, 
and  update  their  personal  profiles 
to  notify  friends  about  themselves. 
Social  networking  giant  Facebook 
registered  its  500  millionth  member, 
the  firm  announced  in  July  2009. 

Its  millions  of  users  around  the 
world  have  reason  to  limit  visibil¬ 
ity  of  their  personal  information 
from  the  total  World  Wide  Web  but 
still  want  to  be  able  to  share  that 
information  with  trusted  contacts. 
Facebook  became  a  huge  success  on 
that  premise  and  ought  to  be  able  to 
continue  thriving  without  doing  an 
about  face  on  privacy. 

Humans  are  social  beings  and 
most  seek  some  engagement  with 
others.  Facebook  uses  a  social 
graph,  which  is  the  global  mapping 
of  people  and  how  they're  connect¬ 
ed.  Sociologists  have  been  studying 
these  graphs  for  decades.  Fa¬ 


mously,  the  social  networks  have  a 
Small  World  Property— more  widely 
known  as  the  Six  Degrees  of  Separa¬ 
tion.  This  is  both  an  anecdotal  and 
scientific  observation  that  we  all  are 
connected  to  each  other— no  more 
than  six  people  away.  What  is  the 
secret?  It's  because  this  is  how  hu¬ 
man  networks  form.  Dense  clusters 
are  interconnected  by  shortcuts. 

There  is  a  social  networking 
privacy  premise  that  people  have 
the  right  to  control  their  "private 
space." 

The  rise  of  Facebook 

Active  users,  millions 


The  argument  is  generally  upheld 
that  "private  space"  is  presumptu¬ 
ous  and  a  user's  right  to  control. 

You  have  privacy  to  the  extent  you 
control  who  is  allowed  into  your 
"zone  of  inaccessibility."  Discus¬ 
sions  about  privacy  revolve  around 
the  notion  of  access,  where  access 
means  either  physical  proximity  to 
a  person  or  knowledge  about  that 
person.  The  lack  of  privacy  often 
makes  individuals  vulnerable  to 
having  their  behavior  controlled  by 
others.  Social  networking  is  built  on 
the  ideology  of  sharing  information 
and  personal  data.  Users  share  a 
variety  of  information  about  them¬ 
selves  on  their  Facebook  profiles,  in¬ 
cluding  photos,  contact  information, 
and  tastes  in  movies  and  books.  It's 
meant  to  be  social. 


(Continued  on  page  42) 


500 
450 
400 
350 
300 
250 
200 
150 
100 
50 
0 

Diagram  1 


Army  Communicator 


41 


Report  Documentation  Page 

Form  Approved 

OMB  No.  0704-0188 

Public  reporting  burden  for  the  collection  of  information  is  estimated  to  average  1  hour  per  response,  including  the  time  for  reviewing  instructions,  searching  existing  data  sources,  gathering  and 
maintaining  the  data  needed,  and  completing  and  reviewing  the  collection  of  information.  Send  comments  regarding  this  burden  estimate  or  any  other  aspect  of  this  collection  of  information, 
including  suggestions  for  reducing  this  burden,  to  Washington  Headquarters  Services,  Directorate  for  Information  Operations  and  Reports,  1215  Jefferson  Davis  Highway,  Suite  1204,  Arlington 

VA  22202-4302.  Respondents  should  be  aware  that  notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  law,  no  person  shall  be  subject  to  a  penalty  for  failing  to  comply  with  a  collection  of  information  if  it 
does  not  display  a  currently  valid  OMB  control  number. 

1.  REPORT  DATE 

2q 1 1  2.  REPORT  TYPE 

3.  DATES  COVERED 

00-00-2011  to  00-00-2011 

4.  TITLE  AND  SUBTITLE 

Social  Network  Privacy:  Overcoming  Facebook  policies  that  put  users  at 
risk 

5a.  CONTRACT  NUMBER 

5b.  GRANT  NUMBER 

5c.  PROGRAM  ELEMENT  NUMBER 

6.  AUTHOR(S) 

5d.  PROJECT  NUMBER 

5e.  TASK  NUMBER 

5f.  WORK  UNIT  NUMBER 

7.  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION  NAME(S)  AND  ADDRESS(ES) 

U.S.  Army  Signal  Center, ATTN:  ATZH-POM  (Army 

Communicator), Bldg  29808A  (Signal  Towers),  Room  713, Fort 

Gordon, GA, 30905 

8.  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION 

REPORT  NUMBER 

9.  SPONSORING/MONITORING  AGENCY  NAME(S)  AND  ADDRESS (ES) 

10.  SPONSOR/MONITOR’S  ACRONYM(S) 

11.  SPONSOR/MONITOR’S  REPORT 
NUMBER(S) 

12.  DISTRIBUTION/AVAILABILITY  STATEMENT 

Approved  for  public  release;  distribution  unlimited 

13.  SUPPLEMENTARY  NOTES 

14.  ABSTRACT 

15.  SUBJECT  TERMS 

16.  SECURITY  CLASSIFICATION  OF:  17.  LIMITATION  OF 

ARSTRATT 

1 8 .  NUMBER  1 9a.  NAME  OF 

OF  PAGES  RESPONSIBLE  PERSON 

a.  REPORT  b.  ABSTRACT  c.  THIS  PAGE  Same  aS 

unclassified  unclassified  unclassified  Report  (SAR) 

7 

Standard  Form  298  (Rev.  8-98) 

Prescribed  by  ANSI  Std  Z39-18 


(Continued  from  page  41) 


o 


Facebook:  Threats  to 
Privacy 

End-users  share  a  wide  variety 
of  information  on  Facebook, 
but  a  discussion  of  the  privacy 
implications  of  doing  so  has  yet 
to  emerge  widely.  I  examined  q 

how  Facebook  affects  privacy, 
and  found  serious  flaws  in  the 
system. 

Privacy  on  Facebook  is 
undermined  by  three  princi¬ 
pal  factors:  users  disclose  too 
much,  Facebook  does  not  take 
adequate  steps  to  protect  user 
privacy,  and  third  parties  are 
actively  seeking  out  end-user 
information  using  Facebook. 

With  this  much  detailed  information  arranged  uni¬ 
formly  and  aggregated  into  one  place,  there  are  bound 
to  be  risks  to  privacy.  Users  may  submit  their  data 
without  being  aware  that  it  may  be  shared  with  adver¬ 
tisers.  Third  parties  may  build  a  database  of  Facebook 
data  to  sell.  Intruders  may  steal  passwords,  or  entire 
databases,  from  Facebook.  Although  many  Facebook 
features  empower  users  to  control  their  private  infor¬ 
mation,  there  are  still  significant  shortcomings. 

Facebook' s  privacy  features  give  users  a  good  deal 
of  flexibility  in  who  is  allowed  to  see  their  information. 
The  privacy  settings  page  allows  a  user  to  specify  who 
can  see  them  in  searches,  which  can  see  their  profile, 
which  can  see  their  contact  info,  and  which  fields  other 
users  can  see.  In  addition,  the  privacy  settings  page 
allows  users  to  block  specific  people  from  seeing  their 
profile.  In  the  usage  agreement,  a  user  can  request 
Facebook  to  not  share  information  with  third  parties, 
though  the  method  of  specifying  this  is  not  located  on 
the  privacy  settings  page. 

There  are  a  number  of  systems  changes  that  can 
be  made,  to  give  the  user  a  reasonable  perception  of 
the  level  of  privacy  protection  available,  and  to  protect 
against  disclosure  to  intruders. 

Brief  Technical  Description  of  Facebook 

Facebook  uses  server-side  hypertext  preprocessor 
scripts  and  applications  to  host  and  format  the  content 
available  on  the  service.  Content  is  stored  centrally  on 
Facebook  servers.  Scripts  and  applications  at  Facebook 
acquire,  process,  and  filter  information  on-demand, 
and  deliver  it  to  users  in  real  time,  to  a  Web  browser 
over  the  Internet.  Users  begin  their  Facebook  session 
at  the  service's  top  level  site,  http:/ / www. facebook. 
com/. 

At  the  main  Facebook  page,  a  user  can  log  in  to 


I  fMJVll  Uiw  * 


I  Thf  Ah  k  I 


IMO& 


Building  identity 
graph,  not  just  social 
graph  from  metadata; 
key  issue:  control 

online  identity 


the  service,  or  browse  the  small  amount  of  information 
available  to  the  general  public.  The  main  page  of  the 
service  is  simple,  and  does  not  provide  any  personally 
identifiable  information  or  technical  insight.  During 
the  login  process,  the  service  provides  the  user's  web 
browser  with  some  information,  which  is  stored  in  the 
form  of  a  cookie.  Some  of  this  information,  such  as  the 
user's  e-mail  address,  is  written  to  a  file  so  the  user  does 
not  have  to  enter  his  or  her  e-mail  at  the  next  login. 

Facebook's  service  creates  and  gives  a  user  a  unique 
checksum  at  every  login,  which  the  browser  stores  as 
a  session  cookie  and  generally  does  not  write  to  a  file. 
This  checksum  varies  from  login  to  login,  but  other 
parameters  do  not.  Once  logged  in  to  the  service,  a  user 
is  free  to  interact  with  Facebook.  The  user  may  edit 
their  profile,  look  at  others'  profiles,  add  or  change  their 
friends  lost  or  personally  identifiable  information,  and 
explore  the  service. 

The  core  of  the  Facebook  platform  is  the  open  graph 
application  programming  interface,  which  enables  read 
and  write  data  to  Facebook.  The  open  graph  API  allows 
applications,  pages.  Websites,  and  other  software  ser¬ 
vices  to  add  Facebook  features,  like  the  "Like"  button, 
to  their  own  sites.  Taking  actions  on  other  sites  results 
in  those  actions  being  shared  with  your  friends  on  Face- 
book,  and  may  allow  friends  on  those  sites  to  see  what 
you're  doing  also. 

Every  object  in  the  social  graph  has  a  unique  ID.  You 
can  fetch  data  associated  with  an  object  by  fetching 
https:/ / graph.facebook.com/ID  .  Alternatively,  people 
and  pages  with  usernames  can  be  fetched  using  their 
username  as  an  ID.  All  responses  are  JavaScript  Object 
Notation  objects.  JSON  is  a  lightweight  text-based  stan¬ 
dard  designed  for  human  readable  data  interchange. 


42  Spring  -  2011 


It's  derived  from  the  JavaScript 
programming  language  for  repre¬ 
senting  simple  data  structures  and 
associative  arrays,  called  objects. 

Metadata  in  Facebook 

Society  spawns  one  gigantic 
social  graph.  In  this  graph,  each 
one  of  us  is  a  node.  There  is  an 
explicit  connection,  if  we  know  each 
other.  For  example,  two  people  can 
be  connected  because  they  work 
together  or  because  they  went  to 
school  together  or  because  they  are 
married.  Everything  has  an  array  of 
likes,  friends,  and  recommendations 
stored  within  a  social  graph.  User- 
contributed  (or  generated)  metadata 
is  the  high  value,  structured  matter 
that  allows  ads,  and  the  overall  user 
experience,  to  be  more  personalized. 
As  the  social  Web  evolves,  privacy 
and  metadata  ownership  issues  will 
continue  to  produce  friction  in  the 
system. 

In  effect,  Facebook  is  building 
an  identity  graph,  not  just  a  social 
graph  out  of  an  individual's  meta¬ 
data.  A  key  issue  going  forward  is 
whether  and  how  users  become  the 
control  point  for  their  online  identi¬ 
ties,  including  all  the  metadata  that 
sites  collect. 

Aggregation  of  Facebook 
Data 

Could  a  more  sophisticated 
aggregation  of  Facebook  data  allow 
privacy  to  be  exposed?  Facebook 
CEO  Mark  Zuckerberg  says  he  is 
providing  "the  power  to  share  in  or¬ 
der  to  make  the  world  more  open..." 

Facebook's  advanced  search 
allows  one  to  query  the  database  of 
users  via  any  of  the  fields  in  a  pro¬ 
file.  The  problem  is  compounded  by 


a  security  hole  that  multiple  people 
have  discovered.  The  likebutton.me 
(http:/ /likebutton.me)  site  created 
by  Zachary  Allia  and  itstrending. 
com  (http:/ /itstrending. com)  site 
created  by  Matt  Schlicht  aggregates 
shared  objects  from  Facebook's 
recommendation  plug-ins  (plug-in 
to  make  website  content  socially 
relevant)  across  online  media  web¬ 


sites.  Both  show  the  same  data 
just  in  similar  interfaces,  display¬ 
ing  what  your  friends  are  "liking" 
and  otherwise  sharing  on  different 
sites.  These  sites  aggregate  data  and 
displays  in  real  time  feed  of  most 
shared  content  on  Facebook  (vid 

(Continued  on  page  44) 


I  MiHit  Cor  tfm  UriT-rrtf 


lirflbntik  dtlrwc.tnry  jin-Min*!  ■+n1*ili  tmr  1 1141  Jr-*ll  iin-  h  h«r i 


acebbok.' 


iowes  said  Facebook  users  can  Change  their  settings  so  they  do  not  appear  in  the  public  directory  going  forwa: 
jL  even  people  who  do  that  now  will  have  their  information  available  via  Bowes'  torrent  file  available  on  the 
e- sharing  site  Pirate  Bay  There  have  been  more  then  10.000  downloads  of  the  file 

Once  i  have  the  name  and  URL  of  a  user  fcanview  by  default,  iheir  picture  friends  information  a  bout  them  at 


Army  Communicator 


43 


(Continued  from  page  43) 


Public  Search  Listing 

Uie  this.  tfl  cantral  v^herhtr  your  starch  itsult  is  available  ouTiade  nf  Facebaok. 

Uncheck  this  box 

f~~jt r-GatP  a  pLb  ic  search  listing  for  me  and  Submit  it  for  search  engine  indexing  (see  preview) 
Please  note  that  minors  do  not  have  public  search  listings. 


eos,  news,  images,  entertainment, 
gaming,  etc).  This  is  all  possible 
by  using  publicly-shared  data  by 
users  and  their  friends,  based  on 
each  user's  social  graph.  You  must 
be  logged  into  Facebook  to  see  personalized  results  on 
these  widgets. 

Apparently  two  developers.  Will  Moffat  and  Peter 
Burns,  (and  possibly  a  third,  James  Home  used  for 
designing)  built  the  site  Youropenbook  (http:/ /youro- 
penbook.org)  to  demonstrate  how  public  our  Facebook 
information  really  is. 

One  person  stated  online  that  "I'm  willing  to  put 
myself  out  there  on  Facebook  and  other  social  networks 
and  online  sites,  so  to  me,  social  media  privacy  can  be 
a  bit  of  an  oxymoron  no  matter  how  many  privacy  set¬ 
tings  I  activate  on  Facebook." 

The  website  Youropenbook  is  a  demonstration  of  lack 
of  privacy  in  Facebook. 

With  this  site  you  can  search  public  Facebook 
updates  using  Facebook' s  own  search  service.  By  using 
the  Open  Graph  API,  developers  can  make  searches 
of  public  timeline  information  without  logging  into 
Facebook.  Developer  Timo  Paloheimo  did  just  that  by 
creating  the  Open  Facebook  Search  at  http:/ / openface- 
booksearch.com.  This  website  opens  up  new  possibili¬ 
ties  for  developers  to  create  totally  new  services  on 
top  of  Facebook's  data.  Now  you  can  embed  Facebook 
searches  to  any  website. 

Another  tool  for  searching  public  data  on  Facebook 
can  be  accessed  at  http:/ / zesty.ca/ facebook.  This 
site  was  created  by  another  developer,  Ka-Ping  Yee, 
using  the  Open  Graph  API.  Try  entering  your  name 
or  e-mail  address,  your  friends'  names  or  e-mail  ad¬ 
dresses,  or  any  keywords.  Use  the  button  to  search  for 
users,  posts,  events,  groups,  or  pages.  You  might  be 
surprised  at  what  is  publically  available.  Many  users 
allow  their  status  updates,  likes,  and  other  activity  to 
be  public  without  knowing. 

Developers  are  using  the  available  documentation  from 
Facebook  to  make  this  happen.  See  http:/ / developers. 
facebook.com/  docs/ api. 

Facebook  Data  Found  on  Pirate  Bay 

Last  summer  Ron  Bowes,  a  Canadian  security 
consultant  and  Nmap  developer,  used  a  piece  of  code 
to  scan  Facebook  profiles,  collecting  data  not  hidden  by 
user's  privacy  settings. 

To  figure  out  if  your  name  is  on  the  list  released 
by  Bowes  you  can  either  download  the  file  or  check 
your  settings  on  Facebook.  To  do  that,  click  on  the 


"Account"  pull  down  menu  on  the  upper  right  of  your 
Facebook  page  and  click  on  "Privacy  Settings."  Then 
select  "Basic  Directory  Information"  and  "View  Set¬ 
tings."  If  "Search  for  me  on  Facebook"  is  marked  for 
"Everyone,"  your  information  might  be  on  the  list. 

Avoid  Facebook  Account  Hacks 

Hackers  are  enticing  Facebook  users  to  install  an 
application  pitched  as  a  "Dislike"  button  that  jokingly 
notifies  contacts  at  the  social  networking  service  "now  I 
can  dislike  all  of  your  dumb  posts."  Once  granted  per¬ 
mission  to  access  a  Facebook  user's  profile,  the  appli¬ 
cation  pumps  out  spam  from  the  account  and  spreads 
itself  by  inviting  the  person's  friends  to  get  the  button, 
according  to  Sophos.  Beyond  tricking  a  user  into  com¬ 
pleting  a  survey,  and  hence  gaining  access  to  your  pro¬ 
file  and  the  ability  to  spam  your  friends,  there  doesn't 
appear  to  be  much  about  the  scam  that's  dangerous. 

Eventually,  after  the  user  completes  the  survey, 
it  does  redirect  to  FaceMod,  the  maker  of  a  Facebook- 
based  "dislike"  button  that  takes  the  form  of  a  Firefox 
browser  plug-in.  Sophos  points  out  that  the  scam  does 
not  appear  to  have  any  direct  connection  to  FaceMod. 

Many  of  the  malware  applications  reported  spam 
by  Facebook  users  have  been  taken  down  by  Facebook. 
But  still  the  thing  to  worry  about  is  that  the  Facebook 
profile  spying  spam  is  not  spreading  through  apps 
only,  in  fact  it  is  spreading  with  the  help  of  Facebook 
Events,  Pages  and  groups  too.  So  Facebook  needs  to 
filter  out  those  spam  pages,  groups  and  events  too. 

Most  of  the  profile  spying  groups,  pages  and  app 
take  you  to  a  page  that's  completely  filled  with  adver¬ 
tisements  and  affiliate  links.  Quite  often  they  ask  users 
to  complete  certain  offers  or  surveys  (see  screenshot 
above)  after  which  users  end  up  passing  their  impor¬ 
tant  information  to  the  spammers  or  downloading 
infected  files  to  their  PC. 

You  will  find  a  large  number  of  Facebook  pages, 
groups  and  apps  that  claim  to  tell  users  about  who 
checked/ viewed  their  profile.  Actually  they  all  are 
spam.  Their  sole  purpose  is  to  get  a  large  user  follow¬ 
ing  by  tricking  people  and  then  directing  them  all  to 
pages  heavily  loaded  with  advertisements  which  in 
turn  generates  revenue  for  them.  Facebook  itself  says 
that  there  is  no  way  at  all  with  which  you  can  see/ 
check  who  is  visiting  your  Facebook  profile.  This  is 


44  Spring  -  2011 


what  Facebook' s  recent  status  up¬ 
dates  state  about  this  rapidly  grow¬ 
ing  spam. 

Another  attack  that  is  trending  is  the 
clickjacking  attack.  This  Facebook 
attack  uses  iFrames,  which  essen¬ 
tially  places  an  invisible  button  over 
an  entire  web  page,  so  that  wherever 
the  user  clicks,  they  end  up  hitting 
the  button  -  in  this  case  a  hidden 
Facebook  "like"  button.  Many  types 
of  operations  can  take  place  from 
this  type  of  attack  hidden  from  the 
user,  sometimes  resulting  in  a  cross¬ 
site  scripting  attack.  Usually  this 
type  of  XSS  attack  will  bypass  client- 
side  security  and  malicious  scripts 
on  web  pages  can  be  executed  on  the 
end-user's  computer. 

Tag. ..You're  It! 

This  is  the  classic  Facebook 
problem.  You  let  loose  for  a  few 
hours  one  night  and  photos  or 
videos  of  the  moment  are  suddenly 
posted  for  all  to  view,  not  just  your 
close  friends  who  shared  the  mo¬ 
ment  with  you.  The  result  can  be 
devastating.  Some  have  been  fired 
from  work  after  incriminating  pho¬ 
tos/videos  were  posted  for  the  boss 
to  see.  For  others,  randomly  tagged 
photos/ videos  have  ended  relation¬ 


ships.  You  should  have  to  approve 
a  tagged  picture  before  it  goes  up 
rather  than  having  to  check  peri¬ 
odically  to  see  if  any  pictures  are 
something  you  do  not  want  posted. 
In  which  case  you  have  to  "un-tag" 
the  photo  and  possibly  report  it. 

You  control  who  can  see  the 
photos  and  videos  you  tagged  to 
appear  on  your  profile.  Remember, 
the  owner  of  a  photo  can  still  share 
that  photo  with  people  who  are  not 
your  friends. 

If  you  don't  want  your  tag  to 
appear,  remove  it  from  the  photo  or 
video  itself.  This  will  also  prevent  it 
from  appearing  on  your  profile.  The 
"My  Photos"  service  allows  users  to 
upload,  store  and  view  photos. 

Users  can  append  metadata  to 
the  photographs  that  allows  other 
users  to  see  who  is  in  the  photo¬ 
graphs,  and  where  in  the  photo¬ 
graph  they  are  located.  These  tags 
can  be  cross-linked  to  user  profiles, 
and  searched  from  a  search  dia¬ 
log.  The  only  recourse  a  user  has 
against  an  unwelcome  Facebook 
photo  posted  by  someone  else,  aside 
from  asking  them  to  remove  it,  is  to 
manually  remove  the  metadata  tag 
of  their  name,  individually,  from 
each  photograph.  Users  may  disable 


2  seconds  ago  Comment  Lik 
You  dislike  this. 

Write  another  comment. . . 


others'  access  to  their  Wall,  but  not 
to  the  Photos  feature. 

Check-in  Versus  Tagging 

So,  since  check-ins  is  also  pre¬ 
sumably  mobile  posts,  wouldn't  that 
also  mean  they  exist  outside  a  user's 
privacy  settings?  If  so,  this  could 
be  a  big  issue  for  Places;  and  defen¬ 
sible  territory  for  Foursquare  and 
Gowalla.  The  difference  between 
being  checked-in  and  being  tagged 
can  be  confusing.  If  you're  checked- 
in  by  yourself  or  by  a  friend,  your 
presence  at  the  location  is  visible 
to  anyone  that  either  you  or  your 
friend  allows,  based  on  your  friend's 
and  your  privacy  settings.  Your 
name  will  show  up  on  the  loca¬ 
tion's  Places  page,  if  there  is  one,  so 
everyone  at  the  location  can  see  that 
you're  there.  If  you  are  tagged  by  a 
friend,  your  presence  at  the  location 
is  seen  by  your  friends  or  whoever 
they  allow  to  see  their  posts,  subject 
to  their  (not  your)  privacy  settings. 
Your  friends'  apps  may  be  able  to 
access  information  about  your  most 
recent  check-in  by  default. 

Recommended  Facebook 
Privacy  Settings 

Currently  the  information  dis¬ 
played  in  the  search  profile  is  lim¬ 
ited  to:  your  profile  picture,  a  list  of 
your  friends,  a  link  to  add  you  as  a 
friend,  a  link  to  send  you  a  message, 
and  a  list  of  up  to  approximately 
20  fan  pages  on  which  you  are  a 
member.  To  increase  your  privacy 
settings,  it  is  necessary  to  select  the 
custom  settings  and  modify  each 
setting  individually.  If  you  want  to 

(Continued  on  page  46) 


SEE  WHO  VIEWED  YOUR 
PROFILE!! 


2^|  Tutor  U  n,  id  ptUr 


Army  Communicator 


45 


Access  content? 


For  security  reasons  we  have  protected  this  content,  to  continue 
complete  one  of  the  short  surveys  below. 


Get  a  world  of  fun  In  one  toolbar 

Create  a  cartoon  you 

Free  emoticons,  smileys  and  winks 


Friends 


(Continued  on  page  45) 

have  full  control  over  who  sees  your  profile,  meaning 
that  only  people  you  have  chosen  will  be  able  to  see 
any  part  of  your  profile,  choose 
"Friends  only."  Towards  the 
bottom  of  the  settings,  uncheck 
the  box  that  states  "Let  friends  of 
people  tagged  in  my  photos  and 
posts  see  them."  Then  click  on 
"Apply  These  Settings." 

Many  open  source  tools  are 
available  for  use  to  help  allevi¬ 
ate  these  problems  in  Facebook 
settings.  Developer  Matt  Piz- 
zimenti,  cofounder  of  Olark. 
com,  created  an  independent  and 
open  tool  (Reclaim  Privacy  Scan¬ 
ner)  for  scanning  your  Facebook 
privacy  settings.  To  keep  the  pri¬ 
vacy  scanner  up-to-date,  all  de¬ 
velopment  will  remain  open  and 
transparent.  Source  code  is  main¬ 
tained  at  http:/ / github.com/ 
mjpizz/reclaimprivacy  and  uses 
a  JavaScript  file  named  "priva- 
cyscanner.js"  about  8,167  lines  of 
code  as  of  today.  The  tool  is  used 
for  scanning  Facebook  privacy 
settings  and  fixing  unexpected 
privacy  holes.  This  scanner  is  not 
fully  compatible  with  the  latest 
Facebook  privacy  settings,  so  be 
sure  you  check  your  privacy  set¬ 
tings  manually  yourself.  The  tool 
can  be  downloaded  from  http:/ / 
www.reclaimprivacy.org. 


Another  open  source  tool 
named  SaveFace,  provided  by  Un¬ 
tangle  is  a  simple  to  install  book¬ 
mark  utility  that  automatically  resets 
Facebook  settings  to  restore  your 
privacy.  SaveFace  sets  your  privacy 
settings  back  to  Friends  only,  for  all 
the  following:  contact  information, 
search  settings,  friends'  tags  and 
comments,  personal  information  and 
posts.  Best  of  all,  it's  free.  Untangle 
collects  no  personal  information  from 
you  or  your  Facebook  when  you  use 
this  bookmark  utility.  SaveFace  can 
be  downloaded  from  http:/ /www3. 
untangle.com/ saveface. 

Here  are  some  tips  for  using  any 
social  network: 

•  Set  appropriate  privacy  and 
security  controls;  use  complex  pass¬ 
words;  separate  e-mails 

•  Don't  install  third  party  applications  from 


Photos  Tagged  of  You 


fl  Who  Can  Sec  This? 


o 


n 


O 


0 


see  this. 


Friends  of  Friends 

Mv  friends  and  the;'  Friends-  ca-" 

Only  Friends 

Only  friends  car  see  this 


Some  Friends 

Choose  specific  friends  who  car  see  this. 


Only  Me 

Only  you  end  selected  networks  cir 


see  the 


Networks 


I  None  of  My  Networks 


O  Except  These  People 


Tyoe  the  name  of  a  friend  or  friend  list.. 


Okay 


46  Spring  -  2011 


You  can  be  outed, 
if  you  don't  disable 
friends*  ability  to 
check  you  in 


sources  you  don't  trust 

•  Only  accept  friend  requests 
from  people  you  know  directly 

•  Read  and  understand  privacy 
policy  and  terms  of  service  care¬ 
fully 

•  Consider  everything  public;  be 
careful  what  you  post 

•  More  at:  http:/ /socialmediase- 
curity.com 

For  a  more  in-depth  refer¬ 
ence  on  Facebook  privacy  settings, 
one  should  visit  http:/ /www. 
wikihow.com/Manage-Facebook- 
Privacy-Options  and  http:/ /www. 
facebook.com/  fbprivacy. 

Conclusion 

In  an  environment  of  growing 
Facebook  information  misuse. 


Facebook  would  do  its  users  a 
great  service  to  explain  the  dan¬ 
gers  of  security  breaches  and 
outside  monitoring.  Until  the 
societal  norms  regarding  this 
new  use  of  computers  become 
well-established,  Facebook  could 
clearly  state  that  they  can  pro¬ 
vide  no  guarantees  regarding  the 
security  of  their  data,  and  that  if 
users  make  their  profiles  public, 
all  information  contained  therein 
may  be  viewed  by  anyone.  Ulti¬ 
mately,  lasting  change  in  online 
privacy  will  only  come  from  a 
gradual  development  of  common 
sense  regarding  what  is  appropri¬ 
ate  to  post  in  social  networking 
forums.  Unfortunately,  this  is  not 
an  easy  fix. 


CW3  Elbert  Peak  is  assigned  as 
a  cyber  security  instructor  at  the 
School  of  Information  Technology , 
Fort  Gordon ,  Ga.  He  recently  com¬ 
pleted  a  10  month  train-the-trainer 
program  for  the  new  Warrant  Officer 
255S  Information  Protection  Techni¬ 
cian  MOS  course.  Since  joining  the 
Army  in  1988 ,  GW3  Peak  has  worked 
in  many  areas  of  information  technol¬ 
ogy  including  networking ,  systems 
administration ,  and  information  as¬ 
surance.  He  holds  a  Bachelor's  degree 
in  Computer  Science  from  University 
of  Maryland,  a  Master's  degree  in 
Computer  Information  Systems  from 
Florida  Institute  of  Technology,  and 
a  Master's  degree  in  Software  Engi¬ 
neering  from  California  State  Univer¬ 
sity,  Fullerton. 

tt 


Army  Communicator 


47 


