bearings operating at high temperatures 
are an emerging technology making 
commercial inroads into several markets 
including aircraft auxiliary power units 
(APUs), microturbines, gas compressors 
and blowers, and turbochargers. 

The general trend for foil bearings 
since their initial development over five 
decades ago is application to larger and 
more complex rotor systems. As this pro- 
liferation occurs, more practitioners will 
become actively involved with new ma- 
chine development using foil bearings. 
Thus, there is a great need for applica- 
tion guidelines to establish the feasibility 
of proposed rotor systems and to iden- 
tify existing machines that are good can- 
didates for foil bearing use. Specifically, 
a method is needed to estimate foil bear- 
ing stiffness and damping behavior in 
order to foster advanced oil-free rotating 
machine development. 


Methods to estimate critical stiffness 
and damping parameters, however, do 
not currently exist. The purpose of the 
methods put forth in this work is to estab- 
lish simple tools capable of estimating foil 
bearing stiffness and damping coeffi- 
cients suitable for oil-free rotor support 
design work. This has been accomplished 
by first coalescing all available empirical 
data on foil bearing performance that 
has been generated in the author’s own 
laboratories, and by researchers working 
in university, government, and industrial 
laboratories. This information is exam- 
ined and combined, then used to de- 
velop ROT for foil bearing stiffness and 
damping. These ROTs can then be com- 
bined with existing rules for load capacity 
to obtain credible feasibility assessments 
for proposed oil-free rotor systems. 

The effort described has resulted in 
algebraic models for foil gas bearings 


that yield stiffness, damping, and load 
capacity values as a function of bearing 
size, design, and operating speed. With 
these models, one can easily determine 
the feasibility of building a foil bearing 
supported machine without incurring 
the expense of early experimental work. 
The models presented represent the 
only known and verified methods to pre- 
dict conveniently foil bearing perform- 
ance properties. 

This work was done by Christopher Della- 
Corte of Glenn Research Center. Further infor- 
mation is contained in a TSP (see page 1 ). 

Inquiries concerning rights for the commer- 
cial use of this invention should be addressed 
to NASA Glenn Research Center, Innovative 
Partnerships Office, Attn: Steven Fedor, Mail 
Stop 4-8, 21000 Brookpark Road, Cleve- 
land, Ohio 44135. Refer to LEW-18755-1. 


@ Sampling and Reconstruction of the Pupil 
for Phase Retrieval 

Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 


This technology is based on sampling 
considerations for a band-limited func- 
tion, which has application to optical es- 
timation generally, and to phase re- 
trieval specifically. The analysis begins 
with the observation that the Fourier 
transform of an optical aperture func- 
tion (pupil) can be implemented with 
minimal aliasing for (lvalues down to (5 
= 1. The sampling ratio, Q, is defined as 
the ratio of the sampling frequency to 
the band-limited cut-off frequency. The 


analytical results are given using a 1-d 
aperture function, and with the electric 
field defined by the band-limited sine (a;) 
function. Perfect reconstruction of the 
Fourier transform (electric field) is de- 
rived using the Whittaker-Shannon sam- 
pling theorem for 1<Q<2. 

The Fourier transform is constructed 
by periodic extension, i.e., by spacing 
copies of the transform in a definite way, 
recognizing that no aliasing occurs for 
values of the sampling ratio such that 


and Electric Field 


1<Q<2, which can be used to advantage 
in the application of phase retrieval esti- 
mation. A method was developed for 
propagating the electromagnetic field 
with no aliasing, which has been ex- 
tended to 2-d optical apertures. 

This ivork was done by Bruce Dean, Jeffrey 
Smith, and David Aronstein of Goddard 
Space Flight Center. Further information is 
contained in a TSP (see page 1). GSC- 
15947-1 


@ Space Operations Learning Center Facebook Application 

This app uses the latest networking technology to inspire young audiences to be interested in 
math, science, and engineering. 

Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 


The proposed Space Operations 
Learning Center (SOLC) Facebook mo- 
dule, initially code-named “Spaceville,” 
is intended to be an educational online 
game utilizing the latest social network- 
ing technology to reach a broad audi- 
ence base and inspire young audiences 
to be interested in math, science, and 
engineering. 

Spaceville will be a Facebook applica- 
tion/game with the goal of combining 


learning with a fun game and social envi- 
ronment. The mission of die game is to 
build a scientific outpost on die Moon or 
Mars and expand die colony. Game activi- 
ties include collecting resources, trading 
resources, completing simple science ex- 
periments, and building architectures such 
as laboratories, habitats, greenhouses, ma- 
chine shops, etc. The player is awarded 
with points and achievement levels. The 
player’s ability increases as his/her points 


and levels increase. A player can interact 
with other players using multiplayer Face- 
book functionality. As a result, a player can 
discover unexpected treasures through sci- 
entific missions, engineering, and working 
with others. 

The player creates his/her own avatar 
with his/her selection of its unique ap- 
pearance, and names the character. The 
player controls the avatar to perform ac- 
tivities such as collecting oxygen mole- 


NASA Tech Briefs, June 2012 


33 


cules or building a habitat. From obser- 
vations of other successful social online 
games such as Farmville and Restaurant 
City, a common element of these games 
is having eye-catching and cartoonish 
characters, and interesting animations 
for all activities. This will create a fun, ed- 
ucational, and rewarding environment. 

The player needs to accumulate 
points in order to be awarded special 


items needed for advancing to higher 
levels. Trophies will be awarded to the 
player when certain goals are reached or 
tasks are completed. In order to acquire 
some special items needed for advance- 
ment in the game, the player will need 
to visit his/her neighboring towns to dis- 
cover the items. This is the social aspect 
of the game that requires the player to 
go out of his/her own establishment to 


explore what is in the neighborhood. 
Spaceville will take advantage of Face- 
book’s successful architecture to inspire 
a new audience of scientists and engi- 
neers for the future. 

This work was done by Ben Lui and Bar- 
bara Milner of Goddard Space Flight Center, 
Dan Binebrink ofSGT Inc.., and HengKuok of 
Sigma Space Corp. Further information is con- 
tained in a TSP (see page 1). GSC-16214-1 


Q Rotorcraft Diagnostics 

John H. Glenn Research Center, Cleveland, Ohio 


Health management (HM) in any 
engineering systems requires adequate 
understanding about the system’s func- 
tioning; a sufficient amount of moni- 
tored data; the capability to extract, an- 
alyze, and collate information; and the 
capability to combine understanding 
and information for HM-related esti- 
mation and decision-making. Rotor- 
craft systems are, in general, highly 
complex. Obtaining adequate under- 
standing about functioning of such sys- 
tems is quite difficult, because of the 
proprietary (restricted access) nature 
of their designs and dynamic models. 
Development of an EIM (exact inverse 
map) solution for rotorcraft requires a 
process that can overcome the above- 
mentioned difficulties and maximally 
utilize monitored information for HM 
facilitation via employing advanced an- 
alytic techniques. 


The goal was to develop a versatile 
HM solution for rotorcraft for facilita- 
tion of the Condition Based Main- 
tenance Plus (CBM+) capabilities. The 
effort was geared towards developing an- 
alytic and reasoning techniques, and 
proving the ability to embed the re- 
quired capabilities on a rotorcraft plat- 
form, paving the way for implementing 
the solution on an aircraft-level system 
for consolidation and reporting. 

The solution for rotorcraft can he 
used offboard or embedded directly 
onto a rotorcraft system. The envisioned 
solution utilizes available monitored and 
archived data for real-time fault detec- 
tion and identification, failure precursor 
identification, and offline fault detec- 
tion and diagnostics, health condition 
forecasting, optimal guided trou- 
bleshooting, and maintenance decision 
support. A variant of the onboard ver- 


sion is a self-contained hardware and 
software (HW+SW) package that can be 
embedded on rotorcraft systems. 

The HM solution comprises compo- 
nents drat gather/ingest data and informa- 
tion, perform information/feature exUac- 
tion, analyze information in conjunction 
with die dependency/ diagnostic model of 
the target system, facilitate optimal guided 
troubleshooting, and offer decision sup- 
port for optimal maintenance. 

This work was done by Deepak Haste, Mo- 
hammad Azam, Sudipto Ghoshal, and James 
Monte of Qualtech Systems for Glenn Research 
Center. Further information is contained in a 
TSP (see page 1). 

Inquiries concerning rights for the commer- 
cial use of this invention should be addressed to 
NASA Glenn Research Center, Innovative 
Partnerships Office, Attn: Steven Fedor, Mail 
Stop 4-8, 21000 Brookpark Road, Cleveland, 
Ohio 44135. Refer to LEW-18672-1. 


@ Recursive Branching Simulated Annealing Algorithm 

The algorithm can be applied to a wide variety of optimization problems. 

Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 


This innovation is a variation of a 
simulated-annealing optimization algo- 
rithm that uses a recursive-branching 
structure to parallelize the search of a 
parameter space for the globally opti- 
mal solution to an objective. The algo- 
rithm has been demonstrated to be 
more effective at searching a parameter 
space than traditional simulated-an- 
nealing methods for a particular prob- 
lem of interest, and it can readily be ap- 
plied to a wide variety of optimization 
problems, including those with a pa- 
rameter space having both discrete- 
value parameters (combinatorial) and 
continuous-variable parameters. It can 


take the place of a conventional simu- 
lated-annealing, Monte-Carlo, or ran- 
dom-walk algorithm. 

In a conventional simulated-anneal- 
ing (SA) algorithm, a starting configura- 
tion is randomly selected within the pa- 
rameter space. The algorithm randomly 
selects another configuration from the 
parameter space and evaluates the ob- 
jective function for that configuration. If 
the objective function value is better 
than the previous value, the new config- 
uration is adopted as the new point of 
interest in the parameter space. If the 
objective function value is worse than 
the previous value, the new configura- 


tion may be adopted, with a probability 
determined by a temperature parame- 
ter, used in analogy to annealing in met- 
als. As the optimization continues, the 
region of the parameter space from 
which new configurations can be se- 
lected shrinks, and in conjunction with 
lowering the annealing temperature 
(and thus lowering the probability for 
adopting configurations in parameter 
space with worse objective functions), 
the algorithm can converge on the glob- 
ally optimal configuration. 

The Recursive Branching Simulated 
Annealing (RBSA) algorithm shares some 
features with the SA algorithm, notably in- 


34 


NASA Tech Briefs June 2012 


