
















































































Standard Features 

1,920 character display 
80x24). 

12-inch bonded screen. 
ncremental and absolute 
cursor positioning. 

Dual video intensity. 

10-key numeric pad. 

ovable keyboard. 

Choice of 8 transmission rates 
up to 9600 baud. 
Communication interfaces 
switchable between ElA RS-232 
and current loop. 

Choice of block or blinking 
underscore cursor. 

Choice of white-on-black or 
black-on-white display 
representation. 

The Editing Option 

Field attribute designation, 
which allows the host computer 
to assign one or more of the 
following conditions to specific 
screen locations: 

—Blink or no blink. 

—Standard or reverse video. 
—Low- or high-intensity 
representation. 






















—Protected or unprotected 
data from operator input. 
—Alpha, numeric or 
alphanumeric entry only. 
—Display or non-display of 
data. 

8 different video 
representations. 

8 Special function keys. 
Data compression and record 
separation. 





























Tabulation advance, back, set, 
clear and automatic. 
Automatic repeat function for 
period, space and dash. 
Insert and delete line. 

Insert and delete character. 


The Polling Option 
Provides protocol compatibility for 
interfacing to communications 
networks. Protocol may be 
user-defined. 


Other Options 
O Upper/Lower Case 
Parallel Output Connector 
Serial Output Connector 
O 202C Compatibility 
Synchronous Interface 
O Modem Cable 
Mechanical Security Lock. 









































Human Engineering Features 
Clear, Sharp 7 x 9 dot matrix 
display. 

Elevated bonded screen for 
comfortable viewing. 
Stair-stepped keyboard for 
rapid, error-free data entry. 
Non-glare key caps for operator 
comfort. 

Moveable keyboard with 
disappearing cable. 

Modern design complements 
any office, 












































Now, with Modular One, Hazeltine 
makes it easier than ever for sys- 
tem manufacturers to have pre- 
cisely the right terminal at the right 


price! Phone your nearest Hazeltine 


representative today for a demon- 
stration and price quotation. 


Modular One establishes new standards of reliability and value for computer terminals, incorporating the latest in 
high-reliability design techniques and components. . . the kind you expect in any product bearing the Hazeltine name, 
the Company with more than a half-century of leadership in electronics and displays. 


Hazeltine-First in Sales The World Over 


Hazeltine Corporation. Computer Peripheral Equipment, Greenlawn, N.Y. 11740 (516) 549-8800 Telex 96-1435 


East: N.Y. (212) 586-1970 [J Conn. (203) 875-6429 (] Boston (617) 261-5867 [] Phila. (215) 676-4348 


L.A. (213) 553-1811 J 


O Wash.. D.C. (703) 979-5500 
Columbus (614) 864-4714 [] Detroit (313) 559-8223. South: Dallas (214) 233-7776 [J Atlanta (404) 393-1440 `] Houston (713) 783 
Denver (303) 770-6330 [J Seattle (206) 242-0505. 


Canada: MISCOE Data Communications Equipment Services, Ltd. [] Toronto (416) 678-7354 [J Montreal (514) 631-4381 [] Vancouver, B.C. (604) 731-0714. 
Mexico: BPM de Mexico _] Mexico City (905) 557-0011. England: Hazeltine Ltd. 01-948-3111 Telex (851)-928572. Germany: Hazeltine GmbH 0611-590748 Telex (841)-416924. France: Hazeltine SARL 9246279 
Ë FOR WORLDWIDE SALES INFORMATION CALL: (516) 549-8800 


CIRCLE NO. 1 ON INOUIRY CARD 


Telex (842) 64601 


O Rochester (716) 254-2479. Midwest: Chicago (312) 986-1414 
-1760 (] Orlando (305) 628-0132. West: San Mateo (S.F.) (415) 574-4800 


Á 





3 Batch Is a bitch. TE 


| Batch may beanadequate wayto process 

| your dataif all youre doing are conventional jobs 

like payroll or cost accounting. 

| But when you getinto operational jobslike 
product distributionand manufacturing control, 
it’s going to present some problems. Because batch 
processing produces reports periodically. So it tells 
youthe way things usedto be, notthe waythey are 
right now. Instead of giving the specific information 
youneed, it gives youreams of printout that you 
have to wade through. And you cant get updated 
information until the next timeyour jobis scheduled 
torun. 

Whichis why World Tableware International 
decided to pull out its batch computer and bring 
ina Data General computer. 

Each department works directly with our 
computer. Andit works directly for them process- 
ing orders, inventory, billings and receivables inline, 
as the business activity flows. 

And because the computer participates in the 
work each department does, the datainthe 
computer is always up-to-date. So it always puts 
out up- to-date reports whenever the people who 
need the reports need them. 


DataGeneral 


ç Data General, Dept.IM,Route 9, Southboro, Mass. 01772 (617) 485-9100. Data General (Canada) Ltd., Ontario. 











Andanytime they wanttoknowthe status ofa 
specific job, they canjust ask the computer. Instead 
of making them searchthroughreams of printout, 
it tells them just what they want to know. 

World Tableware found our computer not 
only easier touse, but also able to pay for itself 
within two years. 

A Midwest automotive parts distributor 
brought ina Data General computer so it could 
get up-to-the-minute inventory control and 
promptly cut its inventory carrying costs by 40%. 

Amember of the New York Stock Exchange 
installed one of our computers to instantly analyze 
and compare the quality of thousands of bonds. 
And during the first week of operation our com- 
puter helped make a sale that completely paid for 
the computer. 

(Notall our installations pay off like that, but 
its niceto knowit can happen. ) 

Over 15,000 Data General computers are 
being used to directly support operations. Sixteen 
examples can befoundin our brochure, 

“The Sensible Wayto Use Computers? /¢Sepsible Way 


Š | -Omputers, 


Write forit. Las [eg = 
And stopall that batching. AGD 





Data General Europe, 15 Rue Le Sueur, Paris 75116, France. Data General Australia, Melbourne (03) 82-1361/Sydney (02) 908-1366. 
CIRCLE NO. 2 ON INQUIRY CARD 


[e 





A TOTAL FAMILY OF CARTRIDGE TAPE SYSTEMS 
..WITH Ep & NOVA INTERFACES 


Yes Sir! Total. That's a fact. Qantex is the only 
manufacturer with in-house production of tape 
drives, tape formatters, tape storage systems, and 
interfaces...in both commercial and military ver- 
sions. One example. A completely integrated sys- 
tem fully interfaced to your PDP-11 for under 
$2500...and that includes interconnect cables... 
even a data cartridge. That's got to make your job 
easier. Just plug it in and run! 


Applications include small business systems, 
process control, mini diagnostics...and for the 
application where we don’t have an interface, we 
have a tape formatter that's really neat and packed 
with function. All in all, a good tape choice for 
dedicated minicomputers...and even micropro- 
cessors, like the 8080 (we have a unique approach 
for this interface too!). 


The Qantex cartridge tape systems offer minis 
up to 23+ megabytes of storage with a minimum 
use of panel space. The 2400 handles up to 8 tape 
drives (four in each 8%” panel), and that means 
almost 18 kilobytes per square inch. The 2200 
comes with one or two tape drives in just 51⁄4”. 
The 2700 takes no panel space at all — it's our 
suitcase portable. Both 2200 and 2400 are com- 
pletely modular thus permitting field expansion to 
the maximum capacity of drives in just minutes. 
Yes minutes; like five per drive. 


|. to r. 2700 PORTABLE PROGRAM LOADER/LOGG i 





600 TAPE DRIVE, 2200 TAPE SYSTEM, 2400 TAPE SYSTEN 


The heart of Qantex cartridge tape systems is 
the 600 tape drive. With the 3M data cartridge, it’s 
packed to 2.5+ megabytes at 1600bpi with 30ips 
read/write, has 6 kilobytes/second transfer, plus 
90ips search and rewind. The ANSI-compatible 
600 is packed with trouble-saving features for the 
volume OEM-user too. 


Maybe that’s the reason a special version of the 
2400 has been selected by the U.S. Navy as the 
standard cartridge peripheral for the AN/UYK-20 
mini. 

Call or write today for full information. Our sales 
representatives are located throughout the free 
world waiting to introduce you to our family. 


P.S. Another member of our family is a super 
1⁄2” tape drive; 75ips, but no vacuum columns or 
tension arms. Interesting, isn’t it? 


Qa ntex DIVISION 


NORTH ATLANTIC 
INDUSTRIES, INC. 


200 TERMINAL DRIVE, PLAINVIEW, NEW YORK 11803 516-681-8350 


CIRCLE NO. 3 ON INQUIRY CARD 


Publisher, Editorial Dir. .... S. Henry Sacks 


Assoc. Publisher....... William A. Gannon 
Editor: ria sie aaa Alan R. Kaplan 
Assoc. Editor ..... Barbara A. Reynolds 
Technical Editor ......... Dan M. Bowers 


Washington Editor, Nan Meredith 
Internat’! Editor, Bohdan O. Szuprowicz 


CONSULTING & CONTRIBUTING 


EDITORS 
Boris Beizer Ivan Flores 
Ralph Berglund James |. Leabman 
Maurits de Regt Walter A. Levy 
Ken Falor Efrem Mallach 
L.A. Feidelman John A. Murphy 


ART/PRODUCTION DIRECTOR 
John W. Kelley, Jr. 


PRODUCTION ASSISTANTS 


Sally Haskins Linda Ladd Lovett 
ADVERTISING PRODUCTION 
Manager ............. Bernard Greenside 


ASS'T TO PUBLISHER 
Pamela E. Page 


CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT 
Carol Grace, Mgr. 
All correspondence regarding circulation, 
advertising, and editorial should be 
addressed to the publication offices at: 


MODERN DATA 
5 Kane Industrial Drive 
Hudson, MA 01749 
(617)562-9305 


SALES OFFICES 
Sales Wars u oenen Robert J. Bandini 
Mktg. Services Mgr. ..... Melvin L. Hayden 


NEW ENGLAND 
Melvin L. Hayden, 5 Kane Industrial Drive, 
Hudson, MA 01749 (617)562-9305 


NEW YORK 

Irwin L. Werfel, E. Regional Sales Mgr., 
Robert J. Bandini, 18 East 48th St., N.Y., 
N.Y. 10017 (212)753-0375, (203)255-6293 


MIDWEST & SOUTHWEST 

Dick Powell, Jeff Edman, The Pattis Group, 
4761 Touhy Ave., Lincolnwood, III. 60646 
(312)679-1100 


WEST COAST 

David E. Pearson, 7135 W. Manchester Ave. 
Suite 3., Los Angeles, Cal. 90045 (213) 
670-5651 


Published monthly and copyrighted 1976 
by Modern Data Services, Inc., 5 Kane 
Industrial Drive, Hudson, MA 01749. The 
contents of this publication (in excess of 
500 words) may not be reproduced in whole 
or in part without written permission. 


SUBSCRIPTIONS: Circulated without 
charge by name and title to U.S.-based 
corporate and technical management, 
systems engineers, systems analysts, EDP 
managers, software specialists, and other 
personnel who qualify under our 
qualification procedures. Available to others 
at the rate of $18.00 per year; single issues 
$1.75. Subscription rate for all foreign 
subscriptions is $25.00 per year (12 issues). 
POSTMASTER: Send Form 3579 to:Circu- 
lation Dept., Modern Data, 5 Kane Indus- 
trial Drive, Hudson, MA 01749. Controlled 
Circulation postage paid at Long Prairie, MN. 
Back issues of MODERN DATA are 
available on microfilm. Contact University 
Microfilms, 300 North Zeeb Rd., Ann 
Arbor, Michigan 48106 for ordering 
information. 


FEBRUARY 1976 e VOLUME 9 e NUMBER 2 


modern data 


22 CORPORATE PROFILE 
Vermont Research Corp. 


24 DATA COMMUNICATIONS 


24 


29 


DATACOMM NEWS 


A summary of data communications products, services, and events. 


TAVOGRAMIS 


An IBM-developed nomographic technique for simplifying network 
design problems. 


36 MINI/MICRO SYSTEMS 


36 


42 


52 


57 


MINI/MICRO NEWS 

A summary of recent minicomputer products, services, and events. 
LARGE SYSTEMS 

DEC’s Big Bridge 

COVER STORY 

Honeywell's Level 6 

A mini new from the bottom up. 

PRODUCT PERSPECTIVE 


Tandem Computer's Nonstop “Miniplex”” 


A new multiprocessor from a new mini mainframer aims at cornering the 
super high reliability market. 


44 PRODUCT PROFILE 
ALPHANUMERIC DISPLAY TERMINALS 


Part 1 — The CRT Market and Technology — Where They Stand Now 
Hybrid televisions or hybrid teleprinters? 


COVER CREDIT: 


Shown is one of the modular memory boards of Honeywell's new Level 6 
minicomputer (See cover story on page 52). Each memory board can hold 
from one to four “pacs,” each pac containing 8K words of MOS memory. 


DEPARTMENTS 


5 

6 

8 
10 
12 
16 
62 
68 
71 
72 


LETTERS 

NEWS & COMMENT 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

DC DATASCAN 

BOOKSTORE 

CORPORATE & FINANCIAL 
NEW PRODUCTS 

NEW SOFTWARE & SERVICES 
NEW LITERATURE 

INDEX TO ADVERTISERS 


READEF:INGUIRX-CARD D a se nea OPPOSITE PAGE 72 
BOOKSHƏREORDERICARD: SS S L S s OPPOSITE PAGE 72 











| You can makeit 
in the OEM systems business 
in 7'2 seconds. 


It takes only 2/ seconds if you have more experience in microprogramming 
a push-button telephone. Because all than any other company in the world. 
you really have to know is the phone And our systems use a high-level block- 
number for Microdata. structured language that can 

714/540-6730. cut your coding, debugging 

Call us and find out and programming costs by 
about the most powerful more than half. Computer 
OEM computer systems language is something we 
on the market. Com- understand - we're the same 
pletely integrated sys- company that developed 
tems. Computers. Disc ENGLISH” the most 
drives. Tape transports. advanced multi-user 
PRISM" display ter- operating system in 
minals. Ready-to-use existence. 
software. We make it With our line-up of 
all. So you get single- powerful OEM systems 
source responsibility, and in-depth support, 
support and service. we think we can help 

And that's not all you make it. 
you get. Why not take a few 

Our systems utilize seconds and find out. 
microprogramming to — Contact Microdata 
glve you superfast ss Corporation, 17481 Red 
response time and total | Hill Avenue, Irvine, 
protection of your California 92714, Tele- 
proprietary software. phone 714/540-6730, 
It helps that we've got | TWX 910-595-1764. 




























Circle No. 4 on Inquiry Card for Immediate Need 
Circle No. 5 on Inquiry Card for Information Only MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


letters 





To the Editor: 


Your article entitled “Technology Pro- 
file: Computer Printers” in November, 
1975, issue inaccurately stated that A. 
B. Dick Company has stopped manu- 
facturing ink jet printers. In fact, A.B. 
Dick ink jet printers sold under the 
VIDEOJET Printer trademark are find- 
ing rapidly increasing acceptance in the 
graphic arts and industrial marking 
fields. In the graphic arts field, VIDEO- 
JET Printers under computer control 
are used to print computer-generated 
variable information directly on the 
paper surface transported in web off- 
set presses, sheet-fed presses of differ- 
ent types, business forms presses and 
finishing equipment, book, catalogue 
and magazine bindery lines, the delivery 
end of newspaper presses and other 
post press finishing operations. In in- 
dustrial marking applications, free- 
standing VIDEOJET Printers equipped 
with alphanumeric and numeric code 
selector tables are used to date code a 
host of products, including those in 
the beverage, foods, pharmaceuticals, 
cosmetic and general manufacturing 
industries. 

As you can see from the above, 
VIDEOJET Printers are being manufac- 
tured by A.B. Dick Company, and are 
very much in use everyday by our many 
customers. 


George E. Marton, Marketing Manager 
Information Products 

A.B. Dick Company 

Elk Grove Village, IL 


The Author's Reply: 

The statement that A.B. Dick was no 
longer manufacturing ink-jet printers 
actually referred to computer printers, 
not printers in general. To my knowl- 
edge, A.B. Dick had manufactured two 
models of their VIDEOJET printers, 
Model 9500 and Model 9600, used as 
terminal or computer printers. The 
statement was made relative to them. 

I have been aware of the fine prod- 
ucts which A.B. Dick has been produc- 
ing for use in the graphic arts and in- 
dustrial marking fields. There are many 
other technologies and applications of 
printing technology which were not 
covered in the article. 

Please accept my apologies for the 
statement on ink-jet printing and also 
for others in the printing business 
whose products and technologies were 
not mentioned in the article on com- 
puter printers. 


Irving L. Wieselman, 

Vice Pres.-Product Programs 
Dataproducts Corp. 
Woodland Hills, CA 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


To the Editor: thropic System 3 user will be interested 
in donating the estimated run time of 
about one hour for the monthly re- 
ports which we require. If this is not 
possible we would like to investigate 
the cost of purchasing the service. 

We will appreciate any assistance 
you can provide. 


The Taconic Girl Scout Council re- 
cently acquired a bookkeeping pro- 
gram which is to be run on an IBM Sys- 
tem 3 computer — RPG II language, 
model 10 (8K) card system (small 
cards). We are anxious to be in touch 
with someone who uses such equip- 


ment in the area of White Plains, West- Betty H. Miller, Executive Director 
chester County, NY, and who would Taconic Girl Scout Council 
work with us in implementingthe pro- Deer Park Plaza 


gram. It is our hope that some philan- Katonah, NY 10536 











Covered with mud, | 
dropped off a desk, and worki Ing 
like a champ. | 


Our 300 is a 30 CPS, portable terminal that operates over regular o 
lines. It’s lightweight, compact, and a joy to work with. | 


It's also the most reliable terminal of its kind ever built. By anyone. - | 


Ask a salesman who leased a 300 from us about a year ago. He dropped his 
unit off a desk. during. transmission, creating a. shock that-was probably 
` harder on our friend than our machine. The 300 lost two characters, then 
continued operating as before. | 
Seemingly determined to destroy.our unit, this same fellow then put this same. 
300 into the trunk of his car.:An unscheduled rainstorm filled his trunk with 
muddy water, giving our machine a thorough bath,. not to mention a perfectly 
good excuse for never working again. : 
The 300 came through with shining, if somewhat muddy, < colors. Plugged in, 
itoperated beautifully. | 
If you'd like to know more about a terminal that can stand up in this ¡tough 
world, get in touch with: Charles. Kaplan or Shirley Newman at (CAD) 
. 261-6800. Computer Transceiver Systems, Inc., East 66 
Midland Ave., Paramus, New Jersey. 07652. ; 


-Execuport 300 portable terminal. 
Not just reliable. Practically unstoppable. 





CIRCLE NO. 6 ON INQUIRY CARD 





news & comment 


NAME CALLING 

“Data Communications Interface ‘76’ recently obtained a 
restraining order from a Boston area court preventing “Data- 
comm *76” cosponsors Computerworld and Datacomm User 
from using the name “Datacomm” to promote a data com- 
munications trade show. According to the plaintiff, Data 
Communications Interface was the original data communica- 
tions show, not Datacomm. Furthermore, it says the similar- 
ity of names confuses the public. As it stands now, Data 
Communications Interface ‘76 will be held March 29-31 in 
Miami Beach and Datacomm ‘76, still going under its 
original name, will be held February 16-18 in New Orleans. 


THE IBM WAY 

Recent articles in Business Week and on the AP wire high- 
light some aspects of The IBM Way of doing business. The 
front-page reports on lawsuits, charges and countercharges 
perhaps cause us to lose sight of some of the reasons why 
IBM is able to recruit and retain one of the world’s most 
dedicated work forces. The following items may provide 
some inspiration for policy innovations at those companies 
which may want to consider spending their money some- 
place other than on lawyers to file suits. 

e In more than 35 years, IBM has never laid off a worker 
for economic reasons. Instead, it retrains workers unneeded 
in one job and assigns them to another. Since 1970 it has 
retrained and physically relocated 5,000 employees. 

e IBM's “open door” policy, under which a worker can pro- 
test his manager’s decision on work-related issues, enables 
an employee to appeal to the chairman himself, through 
successive levels of managers. IBM makes the procedure 
work by appraising how fairly its managers treat “open 
door” gripes. 

e A worker with 25 years’ service can retire on half salary 
for four years, or until he becomes 65. In addition, he re- 
ceives a pension, if eligible; reduced pensions start at age 55. 
e IBM’s code of business conduct is based upon three 
“basic beliefs”: Respect for the individual, the best cus- 
tomer service possible, and ‘“‘excellence” in the pursuit of 
goals. Specifics are contained in an 84-page book entitled 
Business Conduct Guidelines, the contents of which all man- 
agers and many others must, on a yearly basis, certify they 
understand by putting their signature below a phrase stating, 
“I recognize that any violation of these guidelines may be 
cause for dismissal from the company.” 


BEGINNING OF ACH NETWORK 


Since they began about five years ago, Federal Reserve-cen- 
tered Automated Clearing Houses (ACH) have sprung up in 
many metropolitan areas. Considered the first step in an 
electronic funds transfer network, the ACHs collect and 
distribute funds by direct computer-to-computer transfers 
instead of with cash. Until now, ACHs have communicated 
with the computers of member banks, but not much among 
themselves. However, 1976 will mark the beginning of inter- 
state communication as the California and Oregon ACHs 
transfer funds between each other. According to Thruput, 
an American Bankers’ Association publication, the Fed con- 
siders this a major step toward a nationwide automated 
clearing house network. 





USER LIKES AND DISLIKES 


Users are generally happier with software packages supplied 
by software houses than those supplied by hardware ven- 
dors, according to a recent Datapro study. Of the 25 pack- 
ages out of a possible 1400 achieving an “excellent” in over- 
all user satisfaction, IBM’s RPG II was the only one supplied 
by a mainframer. Listed among Datapro’s Top 25 for the 
third consecutive year were ALLTAX (from Management 
Information Service), ASAP (Universal Software), Disk Util- 
ity System (Westinghouse Electric), DYL-250 (Dylakor 
Software Systems), EPAT and GRASP (Software Design), 
the Librarian (Applied Data Research), Panvalet (Pansophic 
Systems), QUIKJOB (System Support Software), and 
UCCTWO (University Computing). 

Datapro’s biggest surprise came with its user survey for 
general-purpose computers. Digital Equipment Corp., best 
known as a mini maker, received the highest overall rating 
for its large-scale DECsystem 10. Also receiving high ratings 
in at least one hardware, software or service category were 
Xerox, Burroughs and IBM. Complete copies of both sur- 
veys ($10 each) are available from Datapro Research Corp., 
1805 Underwood Blvd., Delran, NJ 08075. 


BURROUGHS’ NEW SERIES 

Preannounced in October and announced again in December, 
the Burroughs 800 Series is here. The initial offering of 
B 2800, B 3800, and B 4800 medium systems will compete 
with IBM’s 370/125, 135 and 145. MOS main memory for 
the B 2800 ranges from 100K to 500K bytes, and processor 
cycle time is 333 nanoseconds. According to Burroughs, the 
B 2800 offers 1.5 to 2 times the performance of the B 2700. 
The B 3800 has a similar performance improvement ratio 
over the B 3700. But the B 4800 with a performance im- 
provement 2 to 4 times that of the B 4700 is the real star. 
The B4800 features a 200K to 1000K-byte bipolar memory 
with a 125-nanosecond cycle time. Prices for the medium 
systems range from $485,000 to $3,735,000. First deliver- 
ies will be first quarter 1976. 


SINGER JUMPS SHIP 


Although first on the scene with the electronic cash regis- 
ter, Singer had never been a profit maker in data processing. 
The Singer Business Machines Division accounted for only 
11 percent of 1974 Singer sales, but for a good share of its 
losses. Singer’s new president, Joseph Flavin, saw no way 
Singer could continue to carry this burden so he pulled it 
out of data processing: “The company has decided to with- 
draw over the next 12 months from the manufacture and 
sale of its Business Machines Division product line, including 
retail terminals and data systems.” Getting out won’t be 
easy. Singer will have to absorb a $400 milllion writedown 
in 1975, $345 from Business Machines. Before this, Singer's 
credit crunch took its toll on its consumer products receiv- 
ables, graphics systems and telecommunications operations. 

Singer will continue to provide hardware and software to 
customers over the next five years. And if it sells the division 
as it is trying to, it will demand complete service for its cus- 
tomers from the purchaser. Although Singer was one of the 
major POS terminal manufacturers, NCR and Sweda re- 
mained ahead. So Singer, like RCA, General Electric, and 
Xerox, will return to the business it knows best. 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 





Terminals should be seen and not heard. 


And not break down. 

The DEC writer II Keyboard 
Printer is as quiet as it is good 
looking. pad being almost 
totally electronic makes it just 
as reliable. 

It’s also versatile, so you can 
use your standard line-printer 
forms. You get a true 30 cps, 
132 column printing, a 14-key 
numeric pad and vertical and 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


horizontal tabs. And the relia- 
ble tractor type paper feed takes 
up to 6-part forms — any width 
from 3 to 14% inches. So you 
don’t need special forms. 

Service? Every DECwriter II 
is backed by a field service force 
of 3,000 in 240 branch offices 
worldwide. And that’s a lot of 
support. 

They’re available now from 


dligliltlalt 
COMPONENTS 


CIRCLE NO. 7 ON INOUIRY CARD 


the Components Group, 

Digital Equipment Corporation, 
One Iron Way, Marlborough, 
Mass. 01752. Dial 800-225-9480 
toll free (Mass. dial 617-481-7400 
Ext. 6082). Canada: Digital 
Equipment of Canada, Ltd. 
Europe: 81 Route del'Aire, 

1211 Geneva 26, Tel. 42 79 50. 














international news 


BOHDAN SZUPROWICZ / International News Editor 


ITALIAN ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN, 
INCREASING MINI DEMAND 


For the first time in a quarter of a century, Italy was ex- 
pected to have a negative growth rate for 1975, according 
to a recent U.S. Dept. of Commerce report. This was due to 
Italy’s stablilization program designed to control inflation 
and improve its balance of payments deficit. However, in 
1976 things should improve and a 2 percent annual growth 
rate is projected. One of the main beneficiaries will be U.S. 
computer equipment, which had a market of $450 million 
in 1974 and is expected to reach $565 million by 1977 —a 
20 percent annual growth rate. Minicomputer demand will 
be especially strong, with mini sales expected to grow at a 
30 percent annual rate in the same period. Terminals and 
peripherals will not be standing still either. Public communi- 
cation lines which had an ‘estimated 4000 terminals in 1973, 
are expected to have 30,000 by 1978. By 1977, peripheral 
equipment sales should reach $16.9 million, a 276 percent 
increase over 1972’s $4.5 million. 

For a closer look at what’s happening in Italy, visit the 
U.S. Dept. of Commerce Exhibition of Computers and Re- 
lated Equipment held in Milan, May 11-15, 1976. For more 
information, write Donald Mathes, Office of International 
Marketing, Room 1012, U.S. Dept. of Commerce, Washing- 
ton, DC 20230. 


THE RUSSIAN GRAIN TECHNOLOGY DEAL 


Instead of having to buy grain from the U.S., the Russians 
are studying how to increase their own grain production. 
And one of the main models is the American agribusiness, 
which is being increasingly integrated with computer tech- 
nology. As part of a 1973 U.S.-USSR Agreement on Agri- 
cultural Cooperation, a Russian technical team visited the 
U.S. recently to study the use of computers in American 
agriculture. Two of the firms visited were Computer Sciences 
Corp. (El Segundo, CA) and Computone Systems, Inc. (At- 
lanta, GA). Computer Sciences’ remote computer network, 
Infonet, is used by the U.S. Dept. of Agriculture to produce 
reports on crop production, timber production and grain 
exports, as well as to construct economic models of certain 
crops. Computone demonstrated its remote telephone- 
linked terminals, which provide feed manufacturers and 
livestock growers with nutritional and management advice. 


BRITISH COMPUTER PRIVACY 


Centralized government information systems and privacy 
do not go hand in hand, according to a recent British Gov- 
ernment White Paper. Unlike the U.S. government, the 
British Government has very little linkage between computers 
used by different departments and has no intention of estab- 
lishing a central data bank that would bring all information 
together. Say the British: “the best protection (of privacy) 
lies in collecting only the minimum amount of information 
which the system needs to carry out its designed task 
efficiently, in erasing it when it is no longer needed, in 
keeping different information systems separated from each 
thekra: 


a. IC ee 


CHINESE COMPUTER CENTERS 


Chinese computer production is concentrated in five major 
areas of the country, according to a Fred Glynn Marketing 
Research Study. Digital computers are produced at two 
plants in Peking, and analog computers are produced in 
Tientsin, Peking, and Shanghai. In recent years, China has 
also been active importing computers from the West — at 
least 50 digital, analog and special-purpose computers valued 
at approximately $20 million from Japan, France, West 
Germany and the United Kingdom. 


WESTERN EUROPE CHANGES TACK 


Unable to compete individually with IBM and unable to 
form an effective union to compete with IBM, Western Eur- 
opean computer manufacturers are getting out of main- 
frames and getting into terminals, minis, and small business 
systems, according to a recent Auerbach Reporter. But they 
have a lot of makeup work to do. Until now, each European 
government supported its own mainframe manufacturers, 
but ignored minicomputer and peripheral manufacturers. 
The 20 mini and 18 terminal manufacturers that did exist 
were oriented toward large communication networks instead 
of toward the OEM or systems house market. So U.S. firms 
filled the gap. Although IBM has the terminal market sewn 
up, Europeans are making progress with small business sys- 
tems, banking terminals and teleprinters. Minis are big busi- 
ness in Europe, but European firms have only a combined 
25 percent share, with Digital Equipment having 50 percent 
and other U.S. manufacturers 25 percent. France has been 
the only government to take an interest in minis and termi- 
nals, and it is using CII facilities (separate from CII-HB) in 
hopes of increasing mini production 250 to 500 percent 
between 1974 and 1980. 


GETTING TOGETHER AND FALLING OUT 


The much talked about merger between Compagnie Honey- 
well Bull (CHB) and Compagnie Internationale pour Infor- 
matique (CII) has at last been completed (except for French 
stockholder approval, essentially a formality). The new com- 
pany, CII-HB, will be owned 53 percent by French interests 
and 47 percent by Honeywell Information Systems. Honey- 
well will receive $58 million in return for giving up part of 
its present 66 percent interest in HB. Honeywell President 
Edson Spencer said he expects CII-HB’s computer market 
share to increase substantially due to French government 
support and the combined technologies of both companies. 
The new company will develop, manufacture and market its 
own products. 

Although it was originally thought that the CH-HB mer- 
ger would strengthen CII within the Unidata organization, 
it did the opposite. When the CII-HB merger was signed, 
Siemens disclosed that the three Unidata partners — Ger- 
many’s Siemens, Holland’s Philips and France’s CII had ter- 
minated their Unidata contracts. Unidata was formed in 
July, 1973, combining the interests of all three companies 
in order to compete against IBM and other American com- 
petitors. At its height, Unidata was one of the largest com- 
puter groups outside the U.S. 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 








Time was when high speed 
printing meant a 


high speed line printer. 


Times have 


And so have printers. 
No longer is high speed 
line printing the sole 
realm of the expensive 
line printer. 

Centronics has 
changed all that. Our 
new 103 and 503 serial 
impact printers can give 
you up to 340 lines per minute. Not only 
are they the fastest, most efficient serial 
impact printers you can buy, but, in some 
applications, they can keep pace with line 
printers costing twice as much. 

a How do they doit? 
By a unique combina- 
tion of printing speed, 
slew rate and intel- 
ligence. Both the 108 
and the 503 are 165- 
character-per-second, 
132-column printers. 
Both are bidirectional 
— which i is the intelligence part. They print 
right-to-left, left-to-right at 70 to 340 lines 
per minute. Moving to the nearest char- 
acter on the next line to be printed — 
wherever it may be. There is no carriage 
return and no carriage return deadtime 
(in the 400 milliseconds it takes to effect a 
carriage return, these printers print 80 








characters). A big boost 
for throughput. 

If performance is 
why you buy a printer, 
you want to learn more 
about our model 105. 

If economy is your 
thing, the model 503 
gives you the best 
performance for the money anywhere. Our 
catalogs and spec sheets give you complete 
information. Send for your copies today. 

We want to change your mind about 
printers. Centronics Data Computer Corp., 
Hudson, New Hampshire 03051. 


CENTRONICS 
PRINTERS 


um uma um um um um e e e = = 


103/503 


Centronics— Marketing Services Dept. 
Hudson, N.H. 03051 








Send catalog and specification sheets. 
Have asales representative call. 
I am particularly interested in a printer for: 








[mim 





(describe application) 


Name 





Position _ 





Company 





Company Address 





wan wam uma uma uma ama am esa uma am um ma am mm um ma um um “m um m s | 


Centronics Data Computer Corp., Hudson, N.H. 03051, Tel. (603) 883-0111, Twx. 710-228-6505, Tlx. 94-3404; Eastern Region: (617) 272-8545 (MA); Central Region: 
(513) 294-0070, Twx. 810-459-1784 (OH); Western Region: (714) 979-6650, Twx. 910-595-1925 (CA); Centronics Data Computer (Canada) Ltd., Ontario, Tel. (603) 883-0111, Twx. 
710-228-6505; Centronics Data Computer (UK) Ltd., Cheam, Surrey, England, Tel. 643 0821-4, Tlx. 851 945756; Centronics Data Computer, GmbH, 6 Frankfurt/Main., 
West Germany, Tel. 678041, Tlx. 841 413224; Centronics of Puerto Rico, Dorado, Puerto Rico, Tel. (809) 796-1881, Tlx. 3859349 


CIRCLE NO. 8 ON INQUIRY CARD 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 








de datascan 








NAN MEREDITH / Washington Editor 


THE USSR 
COMPUTER MORATORIUM 


Last month we reported CDC’s and 
IBM 's problems with the U.S. govern- 
ment on export licenses for Socialist 
countries. Since then the controversy 
has heated up. West Virginia’s Senator 
Robert Byrd, the Senate deputy major- 
ity leader, recently called on the De- 
partments of Commerce and State to 
halt exports of computers to the 
USSR. He charged that according to 
American intelligence sources, the 
USSR is using Western-purchased com- 
puters and scientific instruments to 
help in military technology. According 
to Byrd, the USSR purchased $2.7 bil- 
lion worth of computers from Western 
nations in 1974, $500 million from 
the U.S. Byrd’s proposal would cut off 
the U.S. portion of the Eastern market, 
which is only 20 percent. It’s unlikely 
CH-HB, ICL and Siemens would let 
this gap go unfilled. 


CROP FORECASTING 
BY SATELLITE 


Computer Sciences Corp., which oper- 
ates the computer network used by the 
Dept. of Agriculture to forcast U.S. 
crop production, is also helping to de- 
velop techniques for forecasting global 
food production through satellite 
photographs. The experiment involves 
computer analysis of satellite pictures 
of the wheatgrowing zones of North 
America in an attempt to develop bet- 
ter means of predicting crop yields. If 
successful, the experiment will be ex- 
tended to other crops and other regions 
of the globe. 


TVA'S ALTERNATE 
POWER SOURCE 


Although originally established to har- 
ness electrical power, the Tennessee 
Valley Authority is planning to build 
seven nuclear plants. Control Data’s 
Cybernet network is helping with the 
design and construction of the plants 
by performing structural, piping and 
safety analysis. Another arm of TVA 
at Muscle Shoals is developing improved 
methods of scrubbing stack emissions 
from power plants burning coal. Sul- 
phur dioxide, a common atmospheric 
pollutant from these plants, is being 
studied to see if it could be used in 
manufacturing fertilizers. Cybernet 
helps here too by determining the 
economic feasibility of the various op- 
tions as well as the locations of the 
processing plants. 


10 


LASER MASS MEMORY 
FOR SENSITIVE AGENCIES 


The Department of Defense is especially 
interested in Precision Instrument’s 
System 190 Laser Mass Memory. 
Unlike soft magnetic records that can 
be easily erased, laser data is hard and 
any attempt at alteration can be de- 
tected. Laser-recorded data will not 
deteriorate or print through and is 
immune to electro-magnetic radiation 
and computer power failures. Addition- 
ally, the laser system can store up to 
128 billion bytes at about 1/10th the 
cost ($0.0002 per bit) of magnetic 
media, according to Precision Instru- 
ments. To record data in the laser sys- 
tem, a laser beam forms patterns on 
the surface of polyester sheet coated 
with a thin layer of rhodium metal. To 
read data, the laser reflects light from 
the recorded surface, reconstructing 
data into a digital bit stream. With the 
announcement that DoD would take 
delivery of the first system in October, 
Precision Instruments breathed a sigh 
of relief. The near bankruptcy of the 
firm as the result of the slower than 
planned development seems to be 
averted for the present by the incom- 
ing capital. 


NEW NBS PUBLICATIONS 


Computer Security Guidelines describes 
three categories of technical safeguards 
to maintain the integrity of personal 
information and protect it from unau- 
thorized use: physical security pro- 
cedures, information management prac- 
tices, and computer system/network 
security controls. SD Catalog No. C13. 
52:41, $.70. 


Six Data Base Management Systems: 
Feature Analysis and User Experiences 
(Fong, Collica, and Marron) discusses 
advantages of DBMS over traditional 
software and the criteria used in the 
selection of the six systems. SD Catalog 
No. C13.46:887, $1.45. 


Exploring Privacy and Data Security 
Costs — A Summary of a Workshop 
(John Berg) discusses the benefits or 
increased value for EDP managers 
from implementing privacy require- 
ments, direct or hidden costs, and how 
costs should be allocated among those 
who receive privacy’s benefits or face 
its obligations. SD Catalog No. C13.46: 
876, $.85. 


Order the above publications prepaid 
from the Superintendentof Documents, 
U.S. Govt. Printing Office, Washing- 
ton, DC 20402. 


Piotr ee 





VOLUNTARY CONVERSION 
TO METERS? 


Metrication may seem kilometers off, 
but a 17-member United State Metric 
Board has been created “to coordinate 
the voluntary conversion to the metric 
system.” Whether this board will speed 
things up or slow things down is debat- 
able, but its responsibilities will be to 
educate the public and coordinate na- 
tional metrication. Until now, the Na- 
tional Bureau of Standards had the re- 
sponsibility for providing metrication 
information. The Bureau will still be 
responsible for maintaining the present 
national measurement system. If you're 
at a loss how to convert, NBS has a 
metric kit available. Write NBS Metric 
Information Office, Washington, DC 
20234. 


STANDARDIZING COMPUTER- 
AIDED MANUFACTURING 


Component parts for numerically- 
controlled machine tools and com- 
puter-aided design systems come from 
far and wide — from the computer in- 
dustry, the sensor and instrumentation 
industries, the machine tool manufac- 
turers and the materials handling sys- 
tems manufacturers. The National Bur- 
eau of Standards would like to stand- 
ardize the data base formats, computer 
languages and especially the interfaces 
so the various modular components of 
the systems could fit together without 
special engineering and computer pro- 
gramming. NBS feels this is important 
for small and medium firms without 
large capital resources, which make up 
about 3/4 of the value of shipments in 
the discrete parts manufacturing in- 
dustries. The Commerce Dept.’s Assist- 
ant Secretary for Science and Technol- 
ogy, Dr. Ancker-Johnson, presented 
the NBS opinion at the recent three-day 
Second International Computer-Aided 
Manufacturing Standards Workshop in 
Washington. 


IS THERE A MARKET 
FOR YOU IN THE 
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT? 


For information 


on a 350-page guide 

to the buying and selling 
of ADP equipment/services 
to the Government... 


see ad on page 55. 





MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 























= 
=> 

— 

= 


of IO SYSTEMS — 
kind that ¡presents the 


—— 


1 Guinn 
AU WINNers — 


subscribers to MINIMICRO 


The est 100 PA sub 
S DATA's Fortnightly News- 


PAID 
S EMS (MODERN 
ee will each have 
ten versa Corvus 3 


š right — — one a out of ten subscribers wir 


Corvus 307 Features 
° F ully acc essible memory wit th AE key command 
+ Ron (N/ | 


n equal chance to win i one of 
307 desk calculators. te 


Clear (MC). s 
Five calculat functions ir ding single-k I MINIMI CRO SYS Vo 
ana, j btracti nultiplication 1 5 Kane Industrial Drive, Hudson, MA 0174: 
Plea er my 1 year bscription to our, F ortn 
/ Ç er MINIMICRO SYST 
“The Te echnolo ogy Profile on Mooni. `essors sand | Micros 


functions de 
pe ily maa ot 
second entry) > 
(secon( try). computers.” 
I PAYMENT of $65.00 is enclosed which makes me 


Ele floa na decir | 
Ç no ech ara. JON 
CE > ONENE I for the calculator drawing. 


chain constant on five 


e eligible 





ation overfl 





ors. ë 





emory storage indik G 
yboard space 


Key 


tive, compact s 








fee. 








ation from standard housel 














To be eligible f 
a check for $65.00 to 


3 





MODERN DATA/FEBRUAR 














modern doto 
bookstore 





book review, 


YOUR COMPUTER AND THE LAW by Robert P. Bigelow 
and Susan H. Nycum. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 
07632. 278 pages and index. $18.95. 


It is said, “The man who tries to be his own lawyer has a 
fool for a client.” But thisbook doesn't try to be a handheld 
lawyer. Rather, it gives you the basic legal concepts and 
maps the pitfalls to avoid so you won't need a lawyer. In- 
tended as a reference or study guide for the computer man- 
ager or businessman, its six self-contained units discuss legal 
aspects of data system operations from data use to insurance. 

Bigelow, a leader in the field of computer law, and Ny- 
cum, a lawyer with ten years of computer operations exper- 
ience, seem to have thought of everything. Yet despite the 
scope and legal technicalities involved, the book is intended 
for the layman (although lawyers might also find it useful) 
and is therefore easy to read. 

Your Computer and the Law contains an extensive dis- 
cussion of the legal aspects of financial record keeping, tax- 
ation, and data communications. A section devoted to pro- 
prietary rights and statutory methods of software protec- 
tion. What to expect and look for in your next computer 
contract, whether it be hardware, software, or service, is 
another section. Another section discusses computer respon- 
sibility from the standpoint of privacy safeguards and the 
Tort Law, and there is a section just for the EDP manager, 
describing security precautions, insurance policies and anti- 
trust laws. The appendices include samples of computer 
contracts and a copy of the Privacy Act of 1974. 

If yow're thinking of buying or designing a computer, 
this book seems a necessary reference tool. Beyond that, 
it’s interesting to see exactly where the computer industry 
and legal network intersect right now. — B.A.R. 


ENOUGH FORTRAN by Thomas A. Boyle. Technical Di- 
rections, P.O. Box 2221, West Lafayette, IN 47906. 74 
pages + tests, $2.95 (paper). 


Not too little, not too much, but an adequate amount of 
Fortran to enable the student to write an elementary pro- 
gram. All of us have used programmed texts before, but 
how about programmed tests with matched text? The array 
of tests is something like a chain of branched achievement 
tests. The computer scoring of the test provides output for 
each individual at three stages of learning. At each stage, 
programmed messages tell the student how he is progressing 
and what he should study next. This general introductory 
text to programming and Fortran is probably enough, pro- 
viding there’s an instructor to supplement it. —B.A.R. 


12 














J es 
omputer . 


ook of 1974” 


—DENVER POST 





Bulova Watch Co . Inc 


If your time is as important 
as we suspect, 
You're going to appreciate these 
invaluable handbooks for 
increasing your Management 
Skills and EDP Expertise. 


IMPROVING YOUR DP SYSTEMS 


# 1 OPERATING SYSTEMS PRINCIPLES 

S. Kurzban, T.S. Heines, and A.P. Sayers. Familiarizes the reader with 
the design, implementation, and modification of operating systems. 
512 pages Illustrated P267/$16.95 


# 2 RELIABLE SOFTWARE THROUGH COMPOSITE DESIGN 
Glenford J. Myers. A set of design measures, strategies, and techniques 
for designing reliable software, 160 pages Illustrated P355/$11.95 


#3 STRATEGIC PLANNING OF 

MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS 

Paul Siegel. A basic guidebook for the executives, computer scientists 
and other system-oriented specialists planning a management informa- 
tion system. 320 pages Illustrated P148/$16.95 


# 4 COMPUTERS AND MANAGEMENT FOR BUSINESS 

Douglas A. Colbert. Thought-provoking book that provides the reader 
with managerial thinking about the interaction of computers and busi- 
ness. A generous supply of drawings, cartoons, photographs, and illus- 
trations. 416 pages P275/$13.95 


Y 5 DOCUMENTATION STANDARDS — 2nd Edition 

Keith London. The EDP industry” most indispensable book. The 
completely revised and updated guide to the development, design, and 
implementation of a standard system of documentation. 320 pages 
Illustrated P229/$13.50 


#6 ACCOUNTING AND COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

H.D. Clifton and T. Lucey. An invaluable reference for data processing 
personnel implementing computer-based accounting systems as well as 
the practicing and prospecting accountant. Financial and auditing 
considerations are detailed. 192 pages Illustrated P343/$13.95 


#7 AN INTRODUCTION TO UTILITIES 

Ron Lane. Establishes a solid foundation in computer science for the 
beginner while serving as a valuable reference for seasoned professionals. 
Provides an understanding of the most common functions of the major 
Utilities used on IBM System/360 and System/370 computers using OS, 
VS, or VM Operating Systems. Also covers the basic JCL needed to 
implement the Utilities, and defines the necessary computer terms. 
160 pages P342/$9.95 


#8 COMPUTER AIDS TO DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 

Nicholas Negroponte. An anthology of important developments in the 
development and use of the computer in design and architecture. An 
accurate, comprehensive chronology of the chain of events that have 
led architects through changing approaches to the complex problem 
of augmenting the design process. 416 pages P311/$24.95 











DEVELOPING 
GREATER EDP 
EXPERTISE 


#9 AUDIT AND CONTROL OF 

COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

Elise G. Jancura. For both the computer users and 
the auditor. A comprehensive treatment of the 
accounting, control, and auditing functions of com- 
puterized information and control systems. 384 
pages Illustrated P251/$13.95 


#10 COMPUTER ACCOUNTING METHODS 
Gregory A. Cook, Barbara J. Wade and Clark C. 
Upton. Using several classic accounting systems, 
methods of adapting accounting functions to com- 
puters are presented. Reader will learn how to solve 
accounting problems by applying data processing 
concepts. Case studies. 192 pages Illustrated P326/ 
$6.00 


#11CDP REVIEW MANUAL: 

A DATA PROCESSING HANDBOOK 

Roger MacGowan and Reid Henderson. Covers 
every facet of EDP spectrum. 537 Q’s and A's for 
those taking the CDP certification test and those 
aspiring to advanced positions requiring extended 
EDP knowledge. 528 pages P225/$14.95 


# 12 THEORETICAL ANALYSIS OF 
INFORMATION SYSTEMS, FOURTH EDITION 
Borje Langefors. Explains the basis of systems 
theory and its related problems, as well as the 
function of an information system. Also discussed: 
data and information files, the effect of process 
grouping, certain data processing problems and the 
relation between a process and its files. 489 pages 
Illustrated P256/$19.95 


#13 COMPUTERS: AUDITING 

AND CONTROL 

Elise G. Jancura and Arnold Berger. 46 leading 
EDP authorities demonstrate ways and means of 
controlling, verifying, and evaluating the results of 
computerized activities. 498 pages P250/S15.95 


# 14 TECHNIQUES FOR DIRECT ACCESS 

Keith London. Meets the need for an intensive 
education in direct access devices and correct 
methods for using them. 384 pages Illustrated 
P206/$14.95 


#15 SYSTEMS ANALYSIS FOR 

BUSINESS DATA PROCESSING 

2nd Edition 

H.D. Clifton. A wealth of practical information for 
the practicing designer. 250 pages P288/$11.95 





PROFESSIONAL 
IMPROVEMENT 


#19 TOP-DOWN STRUCTURED 
PROGRAMMING TECHNIQUES 

Clement L. McGowan and John R. Kelly. Ad- 
dressed primarily for programmers. The first book 
to define structured programming—computer sci- 
ence's newest methodology—and set forth its appli- 
cation. 288 pages Illustrated P305/514.95 


# 20 STOP! YOU'RE KILLING THE BUSINESS 
Howard J. Klein. How to kill your small, profitable 
business quickly and almost effortlessly is the sub- 
ject of this infallible guide to bankruptcy and 
liquidation—ten instructive tales of corporate mur- 
der as outrageously funny as they are horrifying. 
Running a business is a tough job. Running it is 
easy. Millions have tried Klein’s methods. One of 
them has to be right for you. P1060 288 pages 
$7.95 


From the 100 Best Books of 1974*... 


#21 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY: 

THE HUMAN USE OF COMPUTERS 

Harry Katzan, Jr. The computer as friend and ally 
...a top technocrat's look at the electronic marvel 
that is here to stay. Covers the impact of com- 
puters on people, basic computing concepts, and 
programming languages. 200 pages P199/$12.95 


*March, 1975 Issue of Library Journal 


# 22 THE FUTURE OF THE CORPORATION 

Edited by Herman Kahn. The advanced economies 
of the world are entering a ‘‘post-industrial’’ cul- 
ture. This book addresses some of the most per- 
plexing and least understood of new issues that are 
likely to affect the corporation and its environ- 
ment in the 70's and 80's. The rise of the multi- 
national corporation, and the movement to com- 
puterize are discussed. 220 pages P1044/$8.95 


#16 CONCISE SURVEY OF 

COMPUTER METHODS 

Peter Naur. Intended as “the computer user's 
second book,” it assumes that the reader is familiar 
with elementary programming, using FORTRAN 
or ALGON 60. Included are discussions of the 
fundamental ideas of data processing, data, com- 
puters, and programming. 381 pages P1107/S17.50 


#17 COMPUTER INPUT 

DESIGN 

Susan Wooldridge. Information that is a must for 
investigating the variety of input options on the 
market today that offer greater accuracy, speed, 
and security than the most often used punched 
cards and paper tape. Provides the capability to 
evaluate each of the new options in relation to the 
specific needs of their operations. 199 pages Il- 
lustrated P274/$10.95 


# 18 COMPUTER OUTPUT 

DESIGN 

Susan Wooldridge. With an emphasis on design 
techniques, this reference manual is meant to 
firmly establish systems analysts just beginning 
their career. A companion volume to COMPUTER 
INPUT DESIGN by the same author, this book 
provides beginning to end coverage of data set up 
in memory for printing or display through delivery 
to the ultimate user. 256 pages Illustrated P314/ 
$11.95 


# 23 INTRODUCTION TO 

DECISION SCIENCE 

Sang M. Lee and Laurence J. Moore. Written for 
the manager who has no previous exposure to 
decision science, this book provides a highly read- 
able and comprehensive treatment of modern 
techniques and their application to real-world 
problems. Special emphasis is given to central 
concepts in modeling. 544 pages P282/$14.95 


# 24 THE STOCK MARKET 

CRASH OF 1929 

Gordon V. Axon. A coherent view of the most 
shocking financial event in the history of the 
United States. Discusses important questions such 
as “Was the ‘Crash’ inevitable?” and “Can it 
happen again?” by comparing the economic con- 
ditions of 1929 with those of today. A book for 
interested laymen, businessmen, and_ investors. 
150 pages P211/$6.95 


# 25 BASIC PROGRAMMING WITH 
QUANTITATIVE METHODS 

Darl D. Bien and Gregory A. Cook. Offers a unique 
presentation of the theory of computer language, 
plus applicable quantitative techniques. Covers the 
fundamental concepts of flowcharting, BASIC 
Programming, and quantitative business models. 
192 pages Illustrated P350/$8.00 





NEW 


IDEAS 
FOR 


BUSINESSMEN 


# 26 BUSINESS APPLICATIONS 

IN DECISION SCIENCES 

Stephen Paranka. Provides the reader with a 
fundamental understanding of computer opera- 
tions and quantitative techniques that are useful 
in decision-making processes, and describes how 
those relevant quantitative techniques can be 
applied to typical business problems. 160 pages 
P210/$9.95 


# 27 SO YOU'RE GOING 

TO AUTOMATE 

Jack Munyan. Invaluable primer for controllers, 
small businessmen, and accountants. Sets forth 
guidelines to be used when converting from a 
manual (semi-automated) accounting system to 
a fully automated accounting system. Points out 
potential problems and how to avoid them. !n- 
cludes DO's and DON'T's for converting six 
major accounting functions: accounts receivable, 
accounts payable, payroll, cost center analysis, 
inventory control, and general ledger. 271 pages 
P271/$10.00 








Please see the back of this magazine for order card! 


PETROCELLI/CHARTER 


Div. MASON/CHARTER PUBLISHERS, INC. 
641 LEXINGTON AVE./NEW YORK 10022/TEL: 212-486-8650/CABLE: MASCHARPUB, N.Y. 











Computer Security Institute 
Introduces The 









“Unbundled” Membership Program 


An alternative to full service membership. 


BIMONTHLY NEWSLETTER 


Every other month (six times each year) you will receive Computer Security: The Newsletter for Com- 


puter Professionals...your direct line to the most significant news in the field. This comprehensive, 
tightly knit letter is “one-of-a-kind” —the only letter that you can count on to keep current on all aspects 
of computer security. It is edited by Belden Menkus, a nationally recognized management consultant. 


Each issue delivers clear-cut and useful computer security information. 


General topics include: 


A News on security equipment and services including new product announcements and 


software packages. 


A Discussion and analysis of members’ specific computer security problems. 
A Special commentaries by experts in areas of current interest, e.g., privacy legislation, 
disaster recovery, encryption, risk analysis, fire protection, UPS, and physical access 


control systems. 


* A summary of new literature, who's who in computer security, important legal opinions, 


article summaries and up-coming events. 


* Case histories. Robert V Jacobson, a nationally known authority, contributes two case 
histories for each issue. Taken directly from the recent news, they provide valuable 


insight, expert analysis, and solid recommendations. 


Circulation of Computer Security is restricted to Institute members. 


COMPUTER SECURITY MANUAL 





Contents 







e Physical Security 


DISCOUNT PRIVILEGES 


A major benefit of the “unbundled” option is the 15% discount which can be applied to 
other Institute services: 

@ Seminars 

@ Research Reports 

® Buyer's Guide 
For example, if you attend the three day Annual Conference, you would realize a savings 
of $66.75...the non-member registration fee being $445. 


HOT LINE SERVICE 


This special service alone can be worth the price of member- 
ship. Our staff is on call—available to you on an informal 
basis. Use this two-way communications channel to seek 
answers to your computer security problems. This service 
is available only to Institute members. 


@ Survey of Computer Security 
@ Computer Security Management 














You will also receive a 375 page manual which is available only to Computer Security Institute members. 
It includes articles and presentations carefully chosen by the Institute’s Advisory Board —a distillation of 
the best information currently available on the subject. It is edited by Advisory Board member Peter S. 
Browne. This invaluable, time-saving tool is logically organized into six major categories: 


e Hardware/Software Control 
e Audit: Measurement & Review 
e Privacy & Computer Abuse 


The emphasis is on the practical, “how-to”...a reference source designed to be USED... 
not studied. Included for the serious practitioner is a highly selective bibliography of 133 
articles and papers...35 of which appear in the manual. The manual can also serve as 
a convenient repository for your Computer Security newsletters. 


Annual Conference - New York City 











Full Service Membership 


Computer Security 
Compliance Test 


SIÓN GUIDE 


DEC 


> Systems 
` control Sys! 
access Ce 
Physical. 











INSTITUTE SPONSORED RESEARCH 


Each year you will receive two major Research Reports. Current Special Reports are: 


Computer Security Risk Management Handbook co-authored by Institute Advisory Board members Robert V. Jacobson and Peter 
S. Browne. It is a practical “how-to-do-it” guide designed to help you systematically identify, organize, analyze, and prioritize your 
D.P. risk exposures. Complete with step-by-step fill-in forms, reference sources, and case histories. Topics include: 
® Preparing for risk analysis ® Probabilities of occurrence 
® Threats & vulnerabilities 9 Cost/benefit analysis 
The non-member price is $95. 
Decision Guide to Physical Access Control Systems is a guide to help you understand and evaluate a wide variety of physical access 
control systems. A practical approach with tables, checklists, diagrams and recommendations. Detailed comparison charts describe 
system attributes, and include pricing data. 
Major areas examined include: 
® Basic principles of access control systems ® Cost/benefit analysis 
® Stored-code, pértable key & physical attribute systems ® Index to manufacturers 


COMPUTER SECURITY COMPLIANCE TEST PROGRAM 


Once a year you will have an opportunity to find out how well your organization’s computer security program is doing, and at the same time 
determine how the security of your D.P. facility compares with others around the country. The Institute will send you a self-administered test. Your 
responses will be tabulated and you will be notified of the results. The test is designed to allow you to determine how important each test item is 
with respect to your own installation, and how well you are implementing it. This innovative exercise will assist you in pointing out to senior man- 
agement your facility’s strengths and weaknesses. 


COMPUTER SECURITY BUYER’S GUIDE 


Published annually, the Computer Security Buyer’s Guide is a comprehensive survey of security equipment and services. This useful guide is cross 
referenced by product and manufacturer. It is the only compilation of its kind...a convenient one-stop reference source. Listings include site 
access control systems, air conditioning equipment, automatic fire protection systems, uninterruptible power supplies, software packages, consulting 
services. 


PLUS... THE NEWSLETTER, COMPUTER SECURITY MANUAL & HOT LINE SERVICE. 
ALSO...DISCOUNT PRIVILEGE OF 33% ON ALL SEMINARS. 


COMPUTER SECURITY INSTITUTE 
SEMINARS 43 Boston Post Road - Northboro - Massachusetts - 01532 - (617) 393-3666 
A nationwide schedule of seminars offers you an excellent 
opportunity to broaden your computer security skills. Each O I would like to take advantage of the “unbundled” option and become 
Institute sponsored seminar is something special. The intensive a member of the Computer Security Institute at the annual rate of 
programs are directed by Advisory Board members and offer $75 per year ($90 overseas). 
the very latest techniques which can be applied immediately to O [would like to take advantage of the Full Service Option and become 


your own security problems. a member of the Computer Security Institute at the annual rate of 
$245 per year ($275 overseas). 


And each seminar has something “extra” built in. A previous E I ! . 
program included a tour of the McDonnell Douglas (MCAUTO) O Please send me more information on Computer Security Institute 











facilities in St. Louis; another provided the opportunity to con- membership. 

sult with speakers on a prearranged basis. Workshops are now LJ Check enclosed payable to “Computer Security Institute”. 
included in each program. Questionnaire input from the atten- Please print: O Please bill me. O Please bill my organization. 
dees prior to the seminar determines which topics will be i 

discussed. Name Title 

These “interactive” seminars are either two or three day pro- Organization Phone ( 

grams. The non-member registration fee is $350 for two days, Address 








and $445 for the three day program. 
City 




















corporate & financial 





ISS ACQUIRES CAELUS 
MEDIA CAPABILITY 


The ISS operation of Sperry Univac, 
located in Cupertino, CA, has signed 
an agreement with Electronic Memories 
and Magnetics for purchase of certain 
of the media manufacturing assets of 
its Caelus Memories subsidiary. The 
agreement provides for ISS to take 
over the existing Caelus facility located 
in San Jose, with key Caelus develop- 
ment and manufacturing personnel 
joining ISS. 


HONEYWELL, XEROX 
SUPPORT AGREEMENT 


Honeywell Information Systems has 
agreed to provide maintenance and 
marketing support services to Xerox 
mainframe computer customers in the 
United States. Comparable agreements 
between overseas and Canadian subsid- 
iaries and affiliates are expected to be 
signed in early 1976. The arrangement 
generally follows the letter of intent 
signed Oct. 15 by the two companies. 
Under the agreement Honeywell will 
be responsible for essentially all mar- 
keting contacts with Xerox mainframe 
customers and potential customers for 
equipment and services. Xerox will 
continue its hardware and software 
engineering operations through 1976, 
after which Honeywell will perform 
ongoing engineering support. Xerox 
will also operate its manufacturing and 
distribution facility at El Segundo 
through 1976, after which Honeywell 
will take over these functions. Honey- 
well will offer employment to more 
than 600 U.S. employees of Xerox 
mainframe operations, about 500 of 
whom are field service employees. 
Honeywell will retain most mainten- 
ance revenues. In most cases Honey- 
well will also retain 40 percent of the 
balance of payments from leases, in- 
stallment sales or future sales of Xerox 
computer equipment. No other cash 
payment is involved in the transaction, 
other than employee benefits ex- 
changes. Xerox will continue to own 
its computer equipment, and will con- 
tinue to make and sell computer disk 
drives, serial printers and terminals, 
and high-speed non-impact xerographic 
printers for edp use. Also excluded 
from the Honeywell agreement is 
Xerox Computer Services, which pro- 
vides computer services for businesses 
and public agencies. 


16 


COMPANY 


Advanced Micro 
Devices 
Advanced Systems 
American Telephone 
and Telegraph 
Applied Digital 


Data Systems 
Aydin 
Boothe Computer 
Burroughs 
California Computer 
Products 
Electronic Associates 
General Automation 
Greyhound Computer 
Incoterm 
Keane Associates 
Microdata 
Milgo Electronic 
Mohawk Data 
Sciences 
National CSS 


Omnitec 


On-Line Systems 


Recognition Equipment 


Standard Computer 


System Development 


Terminal Data 


Tektronix 








BOX SCORE OF EARNINGS 


PERIOD 


6 mos. 9/28/75 
9/29/74 


6 mos. 9/30/75 
9/30/74 


12 mos. 11/30/75 
11/30/74 


9 mos. 8/31/75 
8/31/74 


9/27/75 
9/28/74 


9/30/75 
9/30/74 


9/30/75 
9/30/74 


9/28/75 
9/29/74 


10/3/75 
9/27/74 


11/1/75 
11/2/74 


9/30/75 
9/30/74 


11/22/75 
11/23/74 


9 mos. 9/30/75 
9/30/74 


3 mos. 11/30/75 
11/30/74 


12 mos. 9/30/75 
9/30/74 


6 mos. 10/31/75 
10/31/74 


9 mos. 11/30/75 
11/30/74 


12 mos. 7/31/75 
7/31/74 


6 mos. 10/31/75 
10/31/74 


12 mos. 10/31/75 
10/31/74 


9 mos. 9/30/75 
9/30/74 


3 mos. 9/28/75 
9/29/74 


12 mos. 9/30/75 
9/30/74 


12 wks. 11/15/75 
11/16/74 


9 mos. 


9 mos. 


9 mos. 


3 mos. 


9 mos. 


3 mos. 


9 mos. 


9 mos. 


REVENUES 


14,843,000 
13,332,000 


3,915,000 
3,483,000 


28,614,141,000 
26,011,014,000 


11,825,967 
6,418,171 


25,944,000 
23,291,000 


36,789,000 
31,187,000 


1,149,815,000 
1,048,546,000 


26,655,000 
32,873,000 


22,803,000 
22,386,000 


14,993,000 
14,193,000 


46,412,000 
39,705,000 


23,943,817 
13,995,520 


3,790,000 
3,238,000 


4,902,033 
3,441,735 


40,409,945 
30,795,510 


80,624,000 
83,224,000 


26,289,480 
24,704,634 


9,848,746 
659,493 


5,073,991 
6,140,782 


59,254,000 
42,913,000 


4,300,000 
4,496,000 


25,402,000 
25,286,000 


4,706,040 
3,079,423 


82,210,000 
77,153,000 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


NET 
EARNINGS 
(Loss) 


(Loss) 
PER SHARE 


EARNINGS 


368,000 .14 
(2,081,000) (.87) 


160,000 .15 
111,000.11 


3,118,792,000 5.10 
3,174,306,000 5.28 


2,136,278 .57 
1,960,175 22:52 


1,826,000 .89 
2,016,000 1.06 


4,206,000 1.08 
(2,958,000) (1.34) 


91,571,000 2.31 
81,121,000 2.08 


(3,224,000) (.96) 
781,000 = .25 


2,128,000  .80 
(11,991,000) (4.49) 


7,000 = 
177,000 .07 


301,000  .07 
1,080,000 .25 


I 940119 u ob 
(298,044) (.22) 


242,000 .29 
282,000 .34 


413,817 .25 
(147,705) (.09) 


4,248,466 2.50 
2,723,915 1.64 


2,435,000 .36 
(10,474,000) (1.68) 


1,541,200 1.41 
1,382,000 1.26 


135,213 :06 
80,613 .01 


213,413 .25 
881,322 1.05 


3,374,000 .58 
2,087,000 ..39 


32,000 .05 
390,000  .65 


366,000 .20 
124,000 .06 


282,075 .40 
(224,098) (.32) 


6,160,000 .70 
5,182,000  .61 





z A 


Announcing 


Honeywell's Series 60, 
Level 6. 





Our new minicomputer - 
Its small and quick 
and very smart. 











Now Honeywell has a whole new 
family of minicomputers. 


Level 6 means high-reliability hardware that’s 
easy to program, easy to configure,easy to service. 


For only $2634* 


Powerful central system 
architecture: Level 6 architec- 
ture is designed to support the most 
demanding minicomputer applica- 
tions, and provide a full range of 
compatible systems from which the 
user will be able to select the one 
best suited to his requirements. 
Initial models include many of the 
following architectural features: 

e Microprogrammed instruction set 
with writeable control store avail- 
able to the user. 

° Direct addressing up to 8 million 
words of memory. 

e Minimum of 18 programmable 
hardware registers. 

e Bit, byte, word and multi-word 
addressing. 

e Hardware stack and queue 
management. 


e Proven N-channel MOS memory 
in 8K by 16-bit modules, with 

byte parity and up to 32K words on 
asingle board. Cycle time is 650 
nanoseconds. 

e Error detection and correction 
(Corrects single bit, detects two- 
bit errors). 

e Memory management hardware. 
e Over 100 basic instructions, with 
more than 600 variations. 

e High-performance scientific and 
commercial instruction set 
extensions. 

e Common asynchronous 
Megabus” operating in an inter- 
leaved mode, with a bandwidth of 

6 million bytes per second. 

e Vectored interrupt capability with 
up to 64 interrupt priority levels. 

e Separate trap structure with more 





Level 6 offers a choice of rack-mountable, cabinet and tabletop models. Level 6 also includes 
anew full line of low-cost peripherals in both tabletop and rack-mounted versions. Shown 


are the tabletop minicomputer, diskette and CRT. 


than 20 unique entry points. 
e Microprogrammed input-output 
controllers. 
e Multiprocessor and networking 
capabilities. 
The benefits include the ability 
to write compact and efficient pro- 
grams, increased processing speed, 
reduced memory utilization and 
memory management overhead, 
reduced software overhead, 
increased throughput, and the 
capacity to handle large and versa- 
tile configurations. 
Models 6/34 and6/36incorpo- | 
rate subsets of the above features | 
and are immediately available. 
These models are well suited for 
OEM and system-builder applica- 
tions. Maximum memory for the 
6/34 is 32K words, and for the 6/36, 
64K words. 


Advanced modularity: 
Level 6 combines TTL logic, LSI 
and MSI circuitry, firmware-driven 
microprocessors, MOS memory, 
and etched wire connections ina 
new way to achieve plug-in modu- 
larity with optimum configurability 
and replaceability. Specifically: 
e The entire central processor is 
contained on a single board 15’x16" 
e Other 15” x 16” boards are 
devoted to the memory, communi- 
cations processor, peripheral con- 
troller, and user interface. 
e Functional modules (i.e. device 
adapters and memory modules) 
plug into the 15” x 16” boards. 
e Boards fit into the bus without 
backplane wiring. 


*U.S. price in quantities of 50 for rack-mountable Model 6/34. Includes 8K words of MOS memory, with parity, multiply/divide, realtime clock, and bootstrap loader. 


Shown is the compact, rack-mountable Model 6/36 
in a typical configuration. Ideal for OEM 
applications, it fits in a 51⁄2-inch high enclosure. 


power supply module 


multiline communications processor 
for up to 8 synchronous 
and/or asynchronous lines 


general-purpose 
user interface 


central processor 


multiple device controller 
for up to 4 Device-Pac adapters 


plug-in Device-Pac adapters ` 


These features offer the follow- 
ing benefits: The sharing of costly 
logic elements such as controller 
microprocessors and memory error 
correction lowers the system cost. 
A system can be easily configured 
through the selection of a minimum 
number of appropriate boards and 
modules. Fewer components 
and connections mean increased 
system reliability. And serviceability 
is improved by having fewer — as 
well as more easily replaceable — 
components. 


Microprogrammed communi- 
cations processor: Honeywell's 
multiline communications board 
functions as a true front-end proc- 
essor. It offers unusually powerful 


communications capability at 
moderate cost. 

e Separately programmable mem- 
ory allows tailoring to individual 
requirements. 

e Usable memory of 4096 bytes 
enables execution of complex line- 
handling procedures with no cen- 
tral processor involvement. 

e Each board handles up to eight 
full-duplex lines. 

° A variety of modules adapt the 
communications processor for dif- 
ferent line types and speeds (up to 
four modules per board, line types 
and speeds may be mixed on the 
same board). 


As aresult, the central processor 
is relieved of most of the data com- 






















Memory-Pac modules 


full control panel 


munications overhead, and the user 
has maximum application flexibility. 


Built-in test and verification: 
The Level 6 system provides an 
automatic configuration integrity 
check and self-diagnosis: 

e Light-emitting diodes on the cen- 
tral processor and each controller 
board verify logic quality. 

e A console indicator verifies that 
boards, terminators, and bus cabling 
are properly connected at time of 
system initialization. 

By means of these features, 
together with the simple replace- 
ability of boards and plug-in mod- 
ules, the Honeywell Level 6 sys- 
tem is designed to be the most serv- 
iceable minicomputer ever built. 





32K words memory board 








Efficient system-building e Disk-based multitasking realtime patibility via the Model 6/06. The 


software: Honeywell has gained operating system. 6/06 incorporates the packaging 
considerable system building expe- ° Assembler, FORTRAN and and technology advances of Level 6 
rience through the application of utilities. and supports the full range of 
minicomputers within the general These are the first results of a System 700 software and periph- 


purpose computer and control sys- comprehensive software develop-  erals. Memory is available in 8K | 
tem segments of its business. This ment program. Scheduled for future word increments up to 64K. Sys- | 





experience, together with the release are additional higher level tems are available for immediate 
expertise gathered in ten years of languages, communications soft- shipment. _ | 
ware enhancements, and operat- For more mformation, please | 


ing system extensions. mail us the coupon or circle number į 

System 700 compatibility: 125 on reader card. We’d like to | 

Level 6 offers System 700 com- show you why Honeywell's Level 6 
is the biggest news in minicom- 

puters today. 













building minicomputers, has been 
applied to Level 6 hardware and 
software design to produce inte- 
grated system products particu- 
larly well-suited to a wide variety of 
jobs. The initial software includes: 

e Stand-alone program develop- 
ment system. 

e Stand-alone multitasking real- 
time executive. 


@ The Model 6/06 is offered with a variety | 
of peripherals. The configurations shown | 
include disk drive, CRT, tape cassette 
unit, card reader, printer, and paper tape 
reader/punch. 


The Other Computer Company: 
Honeywell 


Honeywell Information Systems, 200 Smith Street, MS 440, Waltham, Massachusetts 02154 


Please send me more information about Level 6 minicomputers. 
Please have a salesman call. 




















Name 





Title 





Company 





Address 














City State Zip 


Phone 





Z 


| 


NO l, | 


- 
WI 
y 


To help you answer my request more effectively, here's some basic information: 








minicomputers during 1976. 








I’m an O OEM End-user [O Ihave a need for 




















My intended application(s) is 
l am interested in Model(s) O 6/34 and 6/36 [UU 6/06 





CDEFG 

















corporate & financial 





NORTH AMERICAN PLACES 
$10 MILLION WITH CALCOMP 


California Computer Products an- 
nounced that North American Corp. 
of New York City has agreed to pur- 
chase CalComp equipment valued at 
up to $10 million during the next 12 
months. The equipment to be pur- 
chased is to be placed on non<ancel- 
lable leases of 18 to 36 months duration 
and includes CalComp disk memory 
systems, tape memory systems, digital 
graphic systems and automated tape li- 
brary (ATL) systems. Calcomp will ser- 
vice and maintain the leased equipment 
and has agreed to act as the re-market- 
ing agent for North American when 
the initial lease term is completed. 


VARISYSTEMS DISCHARGED 
FROM CHAPTER XI 


Varisystems Corp. of Plainview, NY, 
has been discharged from Chapter XI 
of the Bankruptcy Act. The Plan of 
Arrangement, submitted on April 1, 
1974, was confirmed by the U.S. Dis- 
trict Court, Westbury, NY. Varisystems 
designs and builds phototypesetting 
keyboards and composing systems for 
the publishing and printing industries. 


RECENT ENTRIES 


AMTEK has been organized in Orange 
County, CA to manufacture automatic 
production equipment for semicon- 
ductor manufacturers. Current prod- 
ucts include an automatic feed system 
used in manufacturing LED displays for 
calculators, an automatic epoxy dis- 
pensing system and an alignment device 
for positioning microscopic IC circuits 
during assembly. 

ImTECH, Inc. of Silver Spring, MD, 
specializes in problems involving the 
computer processing of pictorial data, 
particularly in the development of im- 
age analysis and computer graphics 
techniques, and their applications to 
industrial automation, document proc- 
essing, medicine and remote sensing. 


Western Peripherals Corp. has been 
formed in Anaheim, CA, to manufac- 
ture and market minicomputer tape 
and disk interface systems. The com- 
pany’s goal is to operate as an indepen- 
dent minicomputer peripherals com- 
pany supplying both the end user and 
OEM markets. 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS 


Medicus Systems Corp. of Chicago has 
acquired Spectra Medical Systems, Inc. 
of Palo Alto, CA. Spectra Medical Sys- 
tems is developer of the Spectra 2000 
computerized medical information sys- 
tem which Medicus will market through 
its network of regional offices. ..... 
An agreement has been reached for the 
sale of Greyhound Computer’s Los 
Angeles Data Center services to Mul- 
tiple Access, Inc., a subsidiary of Mul- 
tiple Access, Ltd., a Canadian firm . . . 
Penril Corp. of Rockville, MD, has en- 
tered into an agreement for Penril’s 
purchase of Data Technology’s Data 
Instruments Division. The division, 
located in Santa Ana, CA, manufac- 
tures electronic digital instrument 
products which include digital panel 
meters, digital multimeters, chart re- 
corders, analog to digital converters 
and a line of logic modules ........ 
Pertec Corp. of El Segundo, CA, has 
entered into an agreement for the mer- 
ger of Computer Machinery Corp. into 
Pertec. The purchase contemplates the 
exchange of 1.8 million shares of Pertec 
stock for all the outstanding shares of 


Xylogic Systems, Inc. of Natick, MA, 
has acquired Interface Corp. of Mel- 
rose, MA, for an undisclosed amount 
of cash and stock. The Interface opera- 
tion will be moved to Natick where it 
will become the Xylogic OEM Com- 
ponents Group specializing in micro- 
programmable interfaces and control- 
lers for minicomputer equipment and 
systems. Xylogic Systems produces 
mini-based turn-key systems providing 
interactive text-editing and typesetting 
for the graphic arts industry. 


FOUR-PHASE SYSTEMS 
INCREASES CREDIT LINE 


Four-Phase Systems has increased its 
credit lines to $42.5 million through a 
new agreement with a group of major 
lending institutions led by Bank of 
America in San Francisco. The credit 
lines, which include $6 million in Can- 
adian funds, will be used to finance 
the leasing of equipment to Four-Phase 
customers and to finance accounts re- 
ceivable associated with sales. The cred- 
it will be available through December 
31, 1976 on a revolving basis, after 
which the lease portion of the revolving 
credit will convert to a term loan. 





EAGLE 


SINCE B 1843 


Carefree 


RECHARGEABLES 


LEAD-ACID 
BATTERIES 


@ SEALED @ RUGGED 

@ NO MAINTENANCE 

@ SAFE @ SPILL-PROOF 

@ WIDE TEMPERATURE 
OPERATING RANGE 


RELIABLE ECONOMICAL 
RECHARGEABLE POWER 
: for 


@ Alarm Systems 

@ Emergency Lighting 

@ Electromedical Apparatus 

@ Telephone Carrier Equipment 
@ Portable Television 

@ Communication Equipment 
O Portable Instrumentation 

O Computer Standby Systems 
O And Many More. 


To Find Out How to Make 
Your Battery System 


Carefree? 


Call or Write | 


EAGLE-PICHER INDUSTRIES, INC. 
Commercial Products Dept. E 

P.O. Box 130, Seneca, Mo. 64865 
Telephone (417) 776-2258 





CIRCLE NO. 9 ON INQUIRY CARD 
21 








corporate profile 


FEATURED THIS MONTH: 








(OVER-THE-COUNTER) 


Vermont Research Corporation 


No. Springfield, Vermont 


OFFICERS £ DIRECTORS: Hugh M. Taft, President, 
Treasurer; Richard A. Stover, Exec. Vice Pres.; Whitney 
Hartshorne, Vice Pres.-Finance; Andrew S. Dowd, Vice Pres.- 
Marketing. Other Directors: John G. Kristensen, Stuart J. 
Lock, John G. Moody, J. Franklin Jones, Jr. 


BACKGROUND: Vermont Research Corporation was in- 
corporated April 4, 1960. In its early years the company’s 
operations were developmental, funded by a contract with 
the Office of Naval Research for investigation of high den- 
sity, high-frequency magnetic recording. The company’s re- 
search in the use of air-bearing supported read/write heads 
led to the development of a proprietary line of products. In 
1969 Vermont Research purchased the outstanding stock 
of Computer Memory Systems, Ltd., of Leatherhead, 
Surrey, England. CMS was engaged in drum memory system 
production and had been the agent for sale of Vermont Re- 
search products in the United Kingdom and Europe since 
its founding in 1967. In 1969 Vermont Research Ltd. was 
formed to sell to and service U.K. and European customers. 
In 1973 the company acquired OMI Memories, Inc. (Los 
Angeles) by merger into VRC California, Inc., a wholly- 
owned subsidiary. In addition, it acquired the moving-head 
magnetic disk memory developed by OMI Memories prior 
to the merger. 


FACILITIES: In 1963 the company built a modern 19,000 
ft.? plant in North Springfield, VT, which now serves as 
sales, engineering and administrative headquarters. In 1969 
it acquired and remodeled a 26,000 ft.” plant in Springfield, 
VT, for additional manufacturing space. An additional 
11,000 ft.? plant is leased in England. The company also 
leases space for its sales offices in various cities. In 1970 the 
company acquired 52 acres of land in North Springfield as a 
possible site for a future plant. As of January 1,1976, VRC 
employed 122 persons at its Vermont facilities and 42 in 
England. 


PRODUCTS/SERVICES: Vermont Research designs, man- 
ufactures and sells two standard product lines of rotating 
magnetic memories: fixed-head magnetic drums, which 
have always been sold under the Vermont Research name; 
and moving-head magnetic disk drives, which were added to 
the product line with the OMI acquisition. Vermont Re- 
search sells its products principally to original equipment 
manufacturers (OEMs) who incorporate them into systems 
which they sell under their own names. The company is not 
in the IBM plug-compatible memory replacement business 
in any way. All sales, whether OEMs or to the occasional 
end-user, are firm sales and do not involve lease revenues or 
deferred income. 


CURRENT POSITION: Vermont Research products have 
been marketed successfully in North America, Europe and 
Japan for over 15 years. During this time there has been 


22 





designed and marketed seven generations of head-per-track 
drums. Customers for the current 3000 Series include two 
of the largest industrial process control computer manu- 
facturers in the world: Honeywell in the U.S., and Siemens 
in West Germany. With the acceptance of the 3000 Series, 
1975 showed a significant increase in sales and profitability 
over 1974. The contribution made by Vermont Research 
Ltd. in marketing and support of VRC products in Europe 
continues to be significant in the company’s overall opera- 
tions with some 40% of the company’s revenues originating 
in that market area. Broadening its product line of rotating 
magnetic memories, Vermont Research has recently intro- 
duced a moving head cartridge disk drive which stores 400 
megabits on only two standard disks. 


OUTLOOK: VRC intends to continue increasing its share 
of the head-per-track market through continued product 
development and expanded marketing activity. During 
1975 the Model 4000 drum was introduced for application 
in such high-volume markets as point-of-sale systems, and 
the Model 3020, a ruggedized high-performance drum, has 
been well received by users with severe environment appli- 
cations, such as on shipboard or in mobile vans. With the 
continued expansion of the moving head disk market, VRC 
is in a strong position with its Model 5017, 400 megabit 
cartridge disk drive. VRC-patented interspersed servo tech- 
nology allows the 5017 to operate with a track density 
of 500 tracks per inch. Development is continuing on con- 
trollers to interface all current VRC products to selected 
minicomputers. 


FINANCIAL SUMMARY: As of Sept. 30, 1975 Vermont 
Research had 719,300 shares outstanding. No public stock 
offering has been made since 1964. Operations are financed 
through a line of credit with commercial banks. Long term 
debt is in the form of real estate and equipment mortgage 
notes. 1974 saw a net loss in earnings due to the company’s 
outlays for research and development of new products. 
1975 saw a return to profitability with significant shipments 
of 3000 Series drums in both the U.S. and Europe. Addi- 
tional growth in 1976 is expected with increased shipments 
of the 5000 Series disk drive. In 1971 the company increased 
its allowance for doubtful accounts by nearly $500,000 be- 
cause of a principal customer’s (Consolidated Computers, 
Ltd. of Canada) financial difficulties. Essentially the same 
amount was recovered in 1972 and 1973. 


Earnings 
Earnings (Loss) 
Period Revenues (Loss) 


Per Share 


(678,323) (1.02) 
904,250 
67,422 
(309,596) 
169,898 


F.Y. 9/30/71 
F.Y. 9/30/72 
F.Y. 9/30/73 
F.Y. 9/30/74 
F.Y. 9/30/75 


5,050,696 
5,744,059 
4,397,662 
3,808,057 
5,363,688 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


THIS OEM ASKED US 
FOR A HEAD START. 


Mero” Systems Technology 
in Chicago was in the 

market for a minicomputer and a disc. 
We said, “There's a better way.” 

Then, we introduced them to the 
Hewlett-Packard DISComputer 
concept. 

Some vendors offer systems in 
which a disc, controller and mini- 
computer have been put together. In 
contrast, the elements of the HP 
DISComputer were designed together. 








Advanced 
Hewlett-Packard 
MX/65 
DISComputer. 


One vendor 
to deal 
with. 









Single-package 
disc/minicomputer/ * 
controller. 


memory, plus multiple languages and 
multi-programming. 

At $17,655* the MX/65 DISComputer 
price/performance ratio is 
exceptional. The further economies of 
dealing with a single vendor could help 
turn a head start into a winning perform- 




















> Zc: "ORS NOREEN usa PLAY 
nagement Systems Technology, Inc., ance any day 
builds a system that provides druggists THE HEWLETT-PACKARD MX/65 DISCOMPUTER AT A GLANCE 
real-time data on patient profiles and — = of the week. 
drug interactions, prints labels, handles Minicomputer: Controller: Disc: J ust ask 
billing and taxes. At its heart : : : 
8K to 128K words. Links to multiple CPU's. | 25 msec average 
Hewlett-Packard DIS 1 : : Ç 
š Ti A gerard DISComputen Solid state 4K RAM | Combined seek/data | seek time. Management 
his m n u memory. transfer. f 15 Mbytes of storage, 

š eans yO Optional Dynamic Built-in error detection | expandable to Systems 
dont get bogged down |Mmapping System. | and correction. 120 Mbytes. Tech nology. 
tr in to O ti mize the Microprogrammable. | Automatic track Exceptional 937 š 

y g p Parity, EAU, floating | switching. Kbyte transfer rate. *DOMESTIC USA OEM 
performance of our point standard. Data protect and Operates over wide PRICES QUANTITY 50 
Brownout-proof recovery features. power and environ- WITH 32K MEMORY 
hardware. Instead, YOU _ | power supply. ment range. 15 MBYTE DISC. ` 


can jump ahead and 








put your efforts into developing your 


own systems. 


You can also benefit from advanced 
HP software. RTE-III, the newest member 


of the RTE family, gives access to 64 
partitions, up to 128K words of main 


22605 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


CIRCLE NO. 10 ON INQUIRY CARD 


NOW WHAT CAN WE 


HEWLETT ¡h 






DO FOR YOU? 


¡ PACKARD 


Sales and service from 172 offices in 65 countries. 
1501 Page Mill Road. Palo Alto. California 94304 


23 








WU EXTENDS 
INFOMASTER SYSTEM 
Western Union has filed a tariff 


amendment with the FCC for a list 
storage service to Telex-T WX subscribers 
utilizing InfoMaster, the company’s 
store-and-forward computer message- 
switching system. The new service, 
called Redi-List, permits the Telex- 
TWX subscriber to store mailing 
addresses, in increments up to 250 for 
each list, which can be called out of 
the InfoMaster data base with seven- 
letter codes. Price schedule for the 
Redi-List service includes a_ basic 
$25 fee for establishment of the list it- 
self, up to a maximum of 250 addres- 
ses; $5 per month computer storage 
fee for each list; and for changes in the 
list a fee of $5 plus $1 for each address 
changed. Messages sent using the Redi- 
List service will be charged at regular 
InfoMaster rates. 


GE’S SATELLITE SWITCHING 


GE telephone and data traffic orig- 
inating in Daytona Beach, FL, and 
Valley Forge, PA, can now be carried 
via satellite thanks to GE’s satellite 
private SCPC (single channel per 
carrier), DAMA (demand assigned 
multiple access) telephone network. 
The network is connected with 
AT&T’s CCSA network. It works 
like this: Satellite circuits are 
demand-assigned under the centra- 
ized control of a computerized sys- 
tem routing center by assigning 





matching frequencies at the GE 
Daytona Beach and Valley Forge 
earth stations. The routing center 
performs all telephone signalling 
and supervision, as well as the fre- 
quency assignments, using a single 
common 40-kilobit per second satel- 
LE 








24 








/ datacomm news 





SATCOM TERMINAL 
MARKET 


A recently-completed study (“Satellite 
Communications Applications and 
Terminals”) by MarTech Strategies, 
Inc. of Indialantic, FL, concludes that 
domestic shipments of military and 
commercial satellite communication 
user terminals will approximately 
double between 1974 ($216 million) 
and 1979 ($427 million). MarTech 
believes these markets will account for 
$1.5 billion in end-user terminal 
shipments through 1979. Factors 
considered significant to this expan- 
sion include: growth of dedicated 
application services; development of 
private satcom networks; IBM’s entry 
as a domsat carrier; new Ku-Band 
satellite technology; and the “balloon- 
ing growth of digital data traffic due 
to expanding computer communica- 
tion networks.” 


lite channel. Centralized network 
maintence functions are also per- 
formed via the single common chan- 
nel under routing center control. 
The SCPC equipment at the Daytona 
Beach and Valley Forge earth sta- 
tions digitizes the analog telephone 
voice for satellite transmission us- 
ing variable-slope-delta-modulation 
techniques. Voice operated switch- 
ing is used in each digital voice chan- 
nel to lower overall power require- 
ments, and echo suppressors are 


used to mitigate the effects of satel- 
lite round trip delay. Digital voice 
channels use a 40-Kbps data rate 
and are spaced on 60 kHz centers. 
Coming is 30 kHz spacing, permit- 
ting 1200 digital voice channels per 
36 MHz satellite transponder. 





AT&T ON REGISTRATION PLAN 


AT&T told the Federal Communica- 
tions Commision that a plan to register 
and allow the direct electrical connec- 
tion to the telephone network of all 
kinds of customer-provided telephones 
and PBXs was “inadequate for (tele- 
phone) network protection” and would 
be a “serious mistake.” Earlier AT&T 
had asked the FCC to reconsider and 
modify its initial plan to register and 
allow connection of ancillary devices 
(such as answering sets and speaker 
phones), data equipment and ex- 
tension phones. The company opposed 
the registration of equipment provided 
by the telephone companies as ““unnec- 
essary and improper,’ stating that 
existing protective programs as well as 
a program of registering only “jointly 
designed discrete protective circuitry” 
as proposed by the company last July 
are preferable to the FCC’s. program 
scheduled to go into effect April 1. 

In comments filed with the FCC on 
the Commission’s announced intention 
to extend its registration plan to main 
telephones, key phone systems and 
PBXs, AT&T said the plan’s standards 
and procedures are “‘inapplicable and 
inadequate for extension to those 
classes of equipment” because it was 
not technically feasible or appropriate 
to apply one set of criteria to all types 
of terminal equipment, and because the 
testing procedures in the plan for PBXs 
and key phone systems would be 
“impractical, if not impossible.” 
AT&T also challenged the FCC’s 
authority and jurisdiction under the 
Communications Act to adopt a reg- 
istration program. 


ADL ON FIBER-OPTICS FOR 
SHORT-HAUL CARRIAGE 


Designs for two pilot electro-optical 
telecommunications systems for which 
business opportunities should be avail- 
able within ten years, are being devel- 
oped by Arthur D. Little, Inc. One 
system is digital, the other analog. 
Both are short-haul (intrabuilding or 
intracity) and can carry voice, data or 
video signals. The Cambridge, MA, 
research organization determined that 
short-haul use was the most promising 
near-term application of electro-optical 
technologies that involve use of fiber- 
optic, rather than metal, cables to 
transmit signals. These systems are said 
to be considerably lower in cost, 
although their exact cost is still undet- 
termined. Also, the small, lightweight 
fiber-optic cables are unaffected by 
electromagnetic and radio interferences 
and can be used in explosive atmos- 
pheres. According to ADL’s Dr. David 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 





A. Curtis, “The value of short-haul 
trunking, using conventional tech- 
nology, installed in the United States 
alone should exceed $400 million 
annually by 1980, rising to $600 
million by 1985, based on current 
costs. These figures, however, do not 
account for possible widespread avail- 
ability of optical fiber communication 
technology, which is potentially more 
economical.” 


ASSURE LINE OUALITY 


Not checking line quality before 
launching into a lengthy transmission 
can be costly. Paring those costs is the 
job of these neat little boxes from 
Com/Tech Systems (New York City). 
The Link/Chek 202 system consists of 
one master unit and any number of 


EJ 





slave units, one at each of the called 
ends. Link/Chek verifies half- or full- 
duplex performance by transmitting a 
pseudo-random bit sequence and then 
displaying a count of the number of 
bits in error returned (echoed). From 
the results the user can determine 
whether to transmit as is, redial for a 
better line, or select another data rate. 
System (one master, one slave) prices 
start at under $1000. 


ICC ELIMINATES 
SERVICE CHARGES 


International Communications Corp. 
has announced a new customer sup- 
port policy that it said will eliminate 
most field service charges on ICC data 
communication products installed by 
ICC personnel. The new service policy 
applies to ICC customers who ordered 
equipment after September 1, 1975. 
Customers who purchased equipment 
will receive customer support services 
during prime shift hours at no addi- 
tional charge for a period of six 
months. Customers leasing equipment 
will receive the same coverage for the 
full term of the lease. Equipment 
leased prior to September 1 can be 
covered by extending the lease for one 
year. The current prices of ICC prod- 
ucts will remain in effect. 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 
















ÇA 


Y 


SS 


` aN ISS S 
MANA 





Or else when the power fails, your computer 
can lose its mind, its memory...and your data. 
y | But an Elgard Uninterruptible Power System 

| can give your computer all the protection it 
needs—up to several hours of back-up time, 
plus continuous isolation from line spikes 

: Re and transients. Elgard models are available in 
Typo nner OnE SP 0.5KVA through 40KVA capacities. 

x E You'd better buy protection. Get in touch 
with us for complete information. Before your 
computer is rubbed out. Elgar Corporation, 
8225 Mercury Ct., 


ELGAR `” 
California 92111, 


Elgar also is a leading pro- 
dese of AC Line Condition- Phone (71 4) 


ers and AC Power Sources 565-1155. 





E 





_ ee 





CIRCLE NO. 11 ON INQUIRY CARD 
25 











/datacomm news 





IBM VS. AT&T 
OVER DATASPEED 40 


Given the decreased cost of processing 
power and the increased need for more 
sophisticated communications devices, 
it was only a matter of time before 
AT&T introduced a product that would 
test its legal ability to market an intel- 
ligent terminal. 

When AT&T ventured into the mar- 
ket in 1973 with its first Dataspeed 40 
terminal, the only objection came 
from Incoterm and that was later 
dropped. The inital version of the 
Teletype-supplied Model 40 CRT was 
an asynchronous stand-alone model 
with speeds of 1050 or 1200 bits per 
second. It had a full typewriter key- 
board and a 1920-character display. 
Then, in October of last year, AT&T 
expanded its Dataspeed 40 offering 
and filed the new tariffs with the FCC. 
The new models were clustered, binary 
synchronous versions with higher 
speeds, and were very similar to IBM’s 
3270 Display Systems. 

This time AT&T found itself con- 
tending with more than just one in- 
dependent. Protests came not only 
from IBM, but also from CBEMA 
(Computer and Business Equipment 
Manufacturers Association) and even 
traditional anti-IBM advocate, CIA 


(Computer Industry Association). Al- 
though the protests were filed separ- 
ately before the FCC, the arguments 
were based on the thesis that the en- 
hanced Dataspeed 40 was no longer just 
a data communications terminal, but 
was now also a data processing terminal. 
In the unregulated data processing in- 
dustry, the IBM side objected to hav- 
ing a regulated monopoly as one of the 
market participants. The fear was that 
AT&T could cross-subsidize the Data- 
speed 40 with other Bell system offer- 
ings. In 1956, an antitrust consent de- 
cree forbade AT&T from entering an 
unregulated business. 

As evidence that the Dataspeed 40 
represented an entry into the data 
processing market, the IBM forces cited 
New York Telephone’s tariff proposals 
with the New York Public Service 
Commission, which stated that the 
new models could also be used as air- 
line reservation or order entry systems. 
IBM, CBEMA and CIA want the FCC 
to suspend or at least investigate the 
tariffs further. Investigation would in- 
clude examining AT&T’s market pro- 
jections and full equipment costs to 
see whether there was indeed cross- 
subsidization. 

IBM said that it would welcome the 
additional competition from AT&T if 








26 


s ors, CO + 
viduals o S to exploit, 


o 
es of pr 


indi A 
i oduct lines os 








it were on a competitive basis, not a 
regulated basis. For this to happen, the 
FCC would have to ask the Justice 
Dept. for modification of the 1956 
decree. 

AT&T has replied that the new 
Dataspeed 40 is still a data communi- 
cations offering, but that it agrees with 
IBM that unregulated and regulated ter- 
minals should not compete in the same 
market. The utility thus concluded that 
all communications terminals should 
be regulated. (AT&T has always been 
unhappy with the deregulation of the 
interconnect industry.) 

According to AT&T, the difference 
between data processing and data com- 
munications is that data processing is 
“the function of operating on informa- 
tion to increase its worth to the end 
user through changing its inherent in- 
formational content.” AT&T main- 
tained that the additional Dataspeed 
40 features do not enhance the worth 
of the data transported because they 
do not change the content of the data. 

The tariffs have been delayed and 
now will not go into effect until Feb- 
ruary. Having tried once in 1971 to de- 
fine data processing and communica- 
tions services in relation to the original 
Dataspeed 40, the FCC still has some 
work in semantics to do. 


SP ARE MODEM SWITCH 


O.K., you've isolated the fault to the 
modem. Now what? Obviously the 


modem must be replaced, but that can 
be time-consuming, particularly if it 
is rackmounted in a maze of wiring 
there are 


and/or no maintenance 





PARE 7 NORMAL 


rera 


personnel onsite. International Data 
Sciences offers a very simple solution: a 
switch that throws in another modem 
instantly. The application sounds 
trivial, but the benefits can be substan- 
tial. Think of it this way: If you value 
yourcommunications atjust $2/minute, 
the $220 switch will pay for itself 
when it eliminates just two hours 
of downtime. For more information, 
Circle No. 95 on Reader Inquiry Card. 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 





“Then it's agreed. We put the good-looking terminal up front in the 
customer area, and the Teletype model 33s back where the work gets done.’ 


2 


The Teletype® model 33 is the standard of the industry 
because it delivers outstanding economy, reliability and 
versatility in a wide range of applications. From message 
communications to computer input/output. On switched 
network as well as private-line systems. 

For more information about the model 33, write or call: 
Teletype Corporation, Dept. 40W, 5555 Touhy pews 
Ave., Skokie, Ill. 60076. Phone 312/982-2000. o 





Teletype is a trademark and service mark registered in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. 


CIRCLE NO. 12 ON INQUIRY CARD 
MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 





27 








NOVA 





AND PDP-11 
INSTRUCTION 
MANUALS 
DON’T MENTION 
THIS FACT: 


Ampex makes pin-compatible memories. 
They save money, they work perfectly, and they 














always give you something extra that you just can’t 
get from the original mainframe manufacturer. 





New For The Nova 2 
The newest Ampex pin- 
compatible memory is 
the ARM, designed for 
Data General Models 


Nova 2/4 and Nova 2/10. 


Completely transparent 
to Nova software and 
hardware, the ARM-2 
provides a full 16K of 
memory (32K bytes) per 
slot, at an access speed 
of 280 nanoseconds and 
a full memory cycle 
speed of 800 nsec. In 
addition to the 16K 
speed advantage, the 
Ampex ARM-2 saves 
you more than 20% 

of the cost of Data 
General's own memory. 


More For The 

Nova 1200 More memory 
capacity per slot is pro- 
vided by the Ampex 
ARM-1200 than you can 
get from Data General. 
Plug in an ARM-1200, 
and you add a full 16K 
of memory. That means 
twice as much memory 
in the original main- 
frame cage as you 
thought you could 
accommodate. Naturally 
the ARM-1200 is 
completely program 
compatible, and even 
more important, with 
Ampex, you save about 
20% over the original 
mainframe manufac- 
turer's price. 


We've Done It For 
DEC, Too Is your mini- 
computer a PDP-11? 
Then you'11 want to plug 
in an Ampex ARM-11 
memory. The 16K 
modules use only two 
slots, instead of the 
three-deep dimensions of 
the original equipment, 
and with an ARM-11 
installed, you’ll be able 
to run programs as fast 
as the mainframe itself 
can run. The space and 
time you save are only 
part of the story —you 
also save 20% of the cost 
quoted by DEC for 
PDP-11 add-ins. 


Plug One In And 
Prove It Sound too good 
to be true? Here's an 
easy way to prove all of 
our claims for Ampex 
add-ins. Just telephone 
the Ampex representa- 
tive closest to you and 
say how many you need. 
We'll let you test the 
memory in your own 
machine and see how 
well it works. Ampex 
office numbers are at the 
bottom of this page; you 
won't find them in your 
instruction manual. 


3 


NOVA isa trademark of Data General Corpora- 
tion. PDP-11 isa trademark of Digital Equipment 
Corporation. 





AMPEX | 


Ampex Memory Products Division, 13031 West Jefferson Boulevard, Marina 
Sales Offices: 





del Rey, California 90291 


(201) 489-7400 (213) 821-8933 (301) 530-8800 (312) 593-6000 (505) 294-1491 (617) 890-2040 
(206) 454-9332 (214) 637-5100 (303) 674-5255 (412) 371-6050 (516) 822-9110 (713) 774-8714 
(212) 736-6116 (215) 887-7650 (305) 783-1811 (415) 367-3861 (602) 242-5551 (801) 278-6920 


ARM-2 /CIRCLE NO. 13 ON INQUIRY CARD 
28 ARM-1200 / CIRCLE NO. 14 ON INQUIRY CARD 
ARM-11 / CIRCLE NO. 15 ON INQUIRY CARD 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


data communications 





TAVORN THANANITAYAUDOM / Systems Communication Division, International Business Machines Corp., Kingston, NY 


VAYDORÁMIS 





An IBM-developed nomographic technique for simplifying network design problems. 


Transmission delay between a remote terminal and the cen- 
tral computer plays an important role in communication 
system cost/performance optimization. And in planning a 
communication system, the best design alternative must be 
found to satisfy given cost/performance criteria. 

The planning process usually consists of a tremendous 
analysis effort involving iterations of design calculations, 
ranging from intuitive guess to extensive modeling and simu- 
lation. Many analyses are required to determine a line con- 
figuration that achieves satisfactory performance at mini- 
mum cost. To estimate the system performance under each 
line configuration, message transmission times and conten- 
tion delays (caused by other terminals sharing the same line) 
must be accounted for along with several other variables. 

The nomograph method described here provides a quick, 
accurate estimate of transaction response time. This response 
time, as experienced by a terminal user, is the duration 
from which an input message or inquiry is entered at the ter- 
minal until an output message or response from the central 
computer is received at the terminal. 

The nomographs are based on simplified queuing equa- 
tions used to calculate queuing delays on a full duplex 
(FDX) multipoint communication line with polling. In de- 
signing an optimum network, iterating the nomograph pro- 
cedure will provide a range of line configurations with load- 
ings that satisfy a given response time constraint. 

Because of the simplicity of using nomographs, the sys- 
tems designer can quickly obtain solution alternatives over 
an applicable range of values for each parameter involved. 
By aiding in the rapid determination of those factors to 
which the response time is most sensitive, the nomograph 
assists in concentrating design effort on the dominant ele- 
ments. The resulting accuracy is more than sufficient for a 
“first-cut” design and analysis, and the number of design 
alternatives is reduced to a manageable level so that exten- 
sive analyses can be performed. 


ASSUMPTIONS 


To avoid misleading results, an understanding of the assump- 
tions underlying the queuing model represented by the 
nomograph is essential: 


Tavorn Thananitayaudom received a Bache- 
lor of Engineering degree in 1965 from 
Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok, Thai- 
land, and an MS from the State University 
of New York at Stony Brook in 1968. He 
joined IBM in 1968 and worked in the IBM 
360/370 Systems Diagnostic Engineering 
group. He joined the System Performance 
Evaluation department in 1972. At present 
he is a staff engineer with major responsibili- 
ties in communication systems network 
analysis. 





MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 








1. Terminal controllers are attached to the host computer 
by means of an FDX multipoint line. Host interface is FDX, 
while the controller interfaces may be either FDX or HDX 
(half duplex). 


2. Terminals and message traffic are distributed evenly 
among the controllers. 


3.Only interactive transactions are considered. (Each 
input produces an output message to the same terminal.) 


4. Input message interarrival time at the terminal is ex- 
ponentially distributed and is significantly greater than the 
process time of the message. (As the interarrival time ap- 
proaches the process time, this technique will produce in- 
creasingly conservative results.) Messages are of constant 
length. Host and controller delays are also treated as 
constants. 


S. Each controller is polled once in a complete poll cycle 
and all input messages queued are transmitted. If there áre 
no input messages, the controller will send a negative re- 
sponse (a control message with same length as a poll 
message). 


THE MEDICAL DIAGNOSTIC 
EQUIPMENT MARKET 


Medical diagnostic equipment sales, $335 million in 1972, 
will reach $410 million by 1975 and double to $725 million 
by 1982. 


Frost & Sullivan has completed a new 230-page study of 
this complex, changing market, offering specific analyses 
and forecasts through 1982 for the following products, end 
users and end user specialties: 


PRODUCT TYPES END USERS 
X-ray Hospitals 

Nuclear Physicians’ Ouices y 
Ultrasonic Outpatient Clinics Cardiovascular 
Thermographic Nursing Homes Neurology 
Lung Function Other Other 
Cardiovascular 

Neurology 


END USER SPECIALTIES 


Radiology 
Respiratory 


Price $395. Send your check or we will bill you. For free 
descriptive literature plus a detailed table of contents 
contact: 


FROST & SULLIVAN, INC. 
106 Fulton Street 

New York, New York 10038 
(212) 233-1080 


29 


oe AA 





INPUT WORKSHEET 


Line speed, S = 4800 baud, (use effective bits rate where applicable). 
EA 
5 >; FDX or HDX controllers ? 


Esa = 30 ms. 


Number of terminals per controller (cluster size), N = 10 





Line propagation delay (one-way include modem delay), t 
Number of controllers on the line, M = 


Modem turnaround time (or clear to send delay), 


Mean time between messages from each terminal, t = 440 sec. 


z AA 
Total message rate (MXN/t),A = /.25 msg per sec. (or 75 per min.) 


Message lengths: Poll message (or negative response), Lo = /00 DIES. 


Input message, L, = /OQO bits. Output message, L, =2000 bi tS. 


= /OOO ns. 


Host delay (CPU, file, & teleprocessing front-end), t 


Controller delay (round trip terminal - controller), ES = 200 ms. 
NOMOGRAPH INSTRUCTION WORKSHEET 
CHART 1 (step numbers are as shown on nomograph key) 
Step 1: Poll transmission time: Lo & S read bt = 2l ms. 
o TE -= 
Input transmission time: L, & S read £. = 210 ms. 
el Ñ ————— 
Output transmission time: L, & S read t. = 420 ms. 
Step 2: Positive poll utilization: À & Ea read p = 2-5 % 
6 = 
Input message utilization: À & t, read o 26 % 
Output message utilization: A & t, read a, = $2.5 x 


lI 


oe 


EE. 
HI 


Step 3: Duplexing factor (for FDX), o; & P3 read P 


Step 4: If HDX controller, Pa (from step 3) & M read Pa = % 

CHART 2 (step numbers are as shown on nomograph key) 

Step l: (t Ft., = 46 ms) & (t intersects P ) read A= MZ ms. 
o d AA m d — 

Step 2: (p, = po -23.5 %) & (p3 intersects Pa? read B = 73 % 

Step 3: Join A (from step 1) & B (from step 2) to intersect scale €. 

Step 4: C (from step 3) & M read polling cycle time T = 2/00 ms. 





Users must apply judgment in determining the validity 
of the technique to their situation. Significant deviation 
from the above assumptions (typical of analytic models) 
will limit the nomograph’s usefulness, and may require con- 
struction of a simulation model. 


USE OF THE NOMOGRAPH 


Because several nomograph readings are required, the work- 
sheets provide instructions leading the user through the re- 


30 


quired steps. While the worksheets may appear complex to 
the first-time user, experienced users will find that they can 
work directly with the nomograph. 

The use of the worksheets and nomograph charts can be 
demonstrated by the given example. The configuration and 
system parameters are given in the input worksheet. 


By following Steps 1 and 2, the line utilizations can be 
obtained from the nomograph on the right of Chart 1. Step 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 





Big technology 
for Mini-computers. 


The mini-computer 
market has grown to the 
point where it demands 
“3330” disk technology in 
a package that fits. 

Introducing: 

The Trident Disk Drives. 

Greater track density 


helped get us down to size. 


The new Trident Series 
brings you 370 tracks- 
per-inch. And up to 6,060 
bits-per-inch. Storage 
capacities range from 
27-82 megabytes. 


Designed for the OEM. 

The Tridents are each 
compact, self-contained 
and rack-mountable. 

Their start or stop 
time is only 20 seconds. 
Pack changes take less 
than one minute. 
Rotational speed is 3600 
r.p.m. Track access time 
is 6 milliseconds. 

The Trident Series 
has one of the lowest 
cost-per-byte ratios 
in the industry. 


9O0ABAGOVO 


CIRCLE NO. 16 ON INQUIRY CARD 


These features make 
the Tridents easy to buy 
and easier to sell. Call 
or write California 
Computer Products, 

Inc., MD-M2-76 
2411 West La Palma 
Avenue, Anaheim, 
California 92801. 
(714) 821-2011. poa 











CHART 1 


32 


(baud ) 


4800 


S — Line Speed 


1200 


2400 


7200 


° 
o 
© 
o 


o 
N 


















(əynuíui 4ad səBessəuu) ayey jeaiuy ¡2101 — y 
o 
o o o o o 
° ° Q 
s 8 8 è g = 8 ° g 
N m 
(puosas sad sebessau) v 
°° 
o 
© 
tO 
a N 
£ 
š 
N 
ú © 
= 
al 
° 
o 
o 
= a 
= 
| 
n w 
< 
q 
i a 
3 3 
Š E 
Ej £ 
o 8 8 
o ° ° 
n= st 
O 
he 
° 
2 
£ 
32 
2 
m | 
= 
° 
(%) Zd : Ld : Cd — suoneznnn aun] 
N 
° 
e e = 3 a 
= 
(%) siajo1muoy XGH 403 103324 Buixajdng — Py 
° ° 
e B Q S 8 
o 
(%) Siəllonuoo9 XGA 103 103924 Buixajdng 
% 
2 Q $ oe 
< ° 
% 2 
ov 
eo 2 a /8 S 8 8 RR 8 
(%) uonezinñn aur induy — bd 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


CHART 2 





M — ‘Number of Controllers 


i 


(%) Cd -ld — voneznnn lod Papniox3 aur] indul 


° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° 
= N ° + D © N ° 
(%) uonezinn auf inding — Zd 
° ° ° ° 
© e ES A ° 
PP U U AKA S S S eS, Q 


el 558 A A Y AU 


S N 


A ASS SSS 


FSS A 


(%) 8 əle5S 























60 
40 
20 


o 
° 
= ° 


200 
180 
160 


(sw) V əle5S 


YA 
EZ 
POETA. TS ° 
a 2 = = = IO SN 
A ee PA SAS oÝ Ç ye 
o 
o o o o o o 5 o ° Y co 
g 0 2 ° o + Wd 
(sw) aw] punoseuin, wapow — y 
a A og S R S £2 8 Š 


(suu) P,,9; — Aejag uonebedosg papnjouy aw] uolssiwisuesy ¡Oy 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 









2500 


2000 


1500 





1000 
T — Mean Polling Cycle Time (ms) 


500 





100 


33 








CALCULATION WORKSHEET 








(a) Mean waiting for a poll (KXT) 


(b) Tnput transmission time (t + t 


(c) Host & controller delaus (to 


(d) Output transmission time (Pt, 


(e) Mean response time (sum of above/1000) 


For*line utilization, calculate p 


(f) Input line utilization (P,-P ot p) = 
(9) Output line utilization (P+ p) 


pu 










= 1470 as. 
+ tı? = 265 ms. 


+ ¡A = | 200 ms. 
+ ta’ = 570 ms. 


= 3.505 sec. 


(Mxt¿/TIX100 = 5 


289.5 


- _57.5 


X X 


$° 


RESPONSE TIME DIAGRAM 





cpu 





3 gives the duplexing factor for FDX controllers. Step 4 is 
required to determine duplexing factors if the controllers 
are HDX (i.e., duplexing only results from one controller 
sending while another is receiving). 


Chart 2 is used to determine the polling cycle time, a 
major element in overall response time. Step 1 takes into 
account the overlap due to duplexing (by locating the inter- 
section of tm and Pg in the triangular pattern) and produces 


34 


the value of A, an interim variable. Similarly, Step 2 pro- 
duces B. Following Steps 3 and 4, the mean polling cycle 
time is determined. 


On the calculation worksheet, the response time diagram 
illustrates the various time elements comprising the overall 
response time. To facilitate rapid look-up, these elements (de- 
termined earlier) are double underscored. Thus, the trans- 
action response time and line utilizations are calculated. m 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


Your IBM Controller has 
two great things 
going for it. 


G77'* INFORMATION DISPLAY TERMINAL 





G-SERIES PRINTER 


They're both from Genesis One. 


The rave notices are really pouring 
in for our new, super-performing, 
low-cost Display Terminal and 
high-speed Printer. 

From enthusiastic users as well as 
those tough-minded critics on the top 
trade publications. 

We call each unit, “The Plug.” 

Because each one is 100% 
plug-to-plug compatible with IBM’s 
3271/3272 Model 2 Control Units. 

The connection is totally direct. 

All you do is plug them in. 

The G77 Display Terminal is a fully 
interchangeable replacement for the 
IBM 3277 Model 2. 

The G-Series Printer is a fully 
interchangeable replacement for the 
IBM 3284, 3286 or 3288 (all Model 2). 


These remarkable GENESIS ONE? 
units, from the standpoint of price 
advantages and unique performance 
features, offer so much more than 
their IBM counterparts that you really 
owe it to yourself to see them de- 


CIRCLE NO. 17 ON INQUIRY CARD 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


monstrated on your own system, 
in your own office. 


At the very least, you'll want to get 
the full details. 

Either way, just send 
in the coupon. 










(E GENESIS one 


COMPUTER CORPORATION 
300 East 44th Street, Dept.MD11, New York, N.Y. 10017 
An MAI Company. 





O Send me your literature. 











O Phone me to set up a 
demonstration (Phone No) — 


Name 


Title 





Company 
Address 
City State 


— 





— A —.. O 


6800 EMULATION SYSTEM 


The DICE/68 is a microcomputer sys- 
tem development aid designed to pro- 
vide users of the 6800 microprocessor 
and the Motorola Exorciser develop- 
ment system with the capability of in- 
circuit CPU emulation, and is said to 
be the first emulation system offered 
for the 6800 processor. By plugging 
the 40-pin DICE/68 adapter directly 
into the 6800 CPU socket on one's 
own hardware, it is possible to debug a 
6800 system prototype, complete with 
RAM, ROM, I/O circuitry and two- 
phase clock, using the full range of di- 
agnostic aids available. through the 
Motorola Exbug operating system. The 
user can, after specifying through 
DICE/68 the block of memory allo- 
cated to the prototype system, begin 
the hardware debugging phase of devel- 
opment. All of the facilities of the de- 
velopment system, suchas trace, break- 
point, single step, etc., are available to 
the user during all phases of the sys- 
tem debugging process. 

The DICE/68 system consists of 
two electronic assemblies, plus inter- 
connecting flat cable and the 40-pin 
adaptor. One assembly is a printed cir- 
cuit card which plugs directly into the 
Exorciser and connects through flat 
cable to a System Status Console. Con- 
trols on the console allow the user to 
single step through the control pro- 
gram to initiate an interrupt, a system 
halt, or a reset. A microstep feature 
allows the user to review the status of 
the system bus during all sub-cycles of 
a previously executed 6800 micro- 
processor instruction. For more infor- 
mation, Circle No. 81 on Reader In- 
quiry Card. 


MILESTONES 


Both Digital Equipment and Com- 
puter Automation announced nu- 
merically significant deliveries re- 
cently. DEC said it had shipped its 
1,000th LSI-11 microcomputer 
only ten months after the product’s 
introduction, and Computer Auto- 
mation said it shipped its 10,000th 
Naked Mini only a little more than 
a year. after shipping Number 
5000. The DEC shipment set a new 
computer delivery record for that 
company. After the PDP-8 mini was 
introduced in 1965, 30 months 
passed before the 1000th PDP-8 
was delivered. Twenty-four months 
elapsed between the announcement 
of the PDP-11 and delivery of the 
1000th unit. 


36 





/ mini/micre news 


INTEL ADD-IN 
FOR INTERDATA 7/16 


An “add-in” semiconductor mem- 
ory system for the Interdata Model 
7/16 Basic mini has been introduced 
by Intel Memory Systems. The new 
Intel in-4716 system stores up to 
16,384 17-bit words on a single 
card (including parity bits) and up 
to 32K words on two cards. An 
in4716 can be used in the same 


“Intelerdata” Memory 


system as core memory modules, 
since it is completely compatible. 
However, its memory element is the 
Intel 2107B, a high-speed (300 nsec 
access; 1 usec cycle) 4K dynamic 
MOS RAM. The basic single-card 
system is available in three versions 
storing 8K, 12K and 16K words. 
Each card is a complete system, 
with all control, refresh and inter- 
face logic required for plug-to-plug 
compatibility with the Interdata 
7/16 computer. At 16K, the 
in-4716 costs $1,985, or about $.07 
a bit, in single unit quantity. 





HP-65 USER'S CLUB 


We've often heard it said that the 
Hewlett-Packard HP-65 programmable 
calculator marked the first truly per- 
sonal, full-blown computer. Without 
getting too deep into that sticky ques- 
tion, we do admit to viewing the HP-65 
as at least a beachhead to the invasion 
that is sure to follow. No better proof 
of the potential for a personal com- 
puter market could be found then that 
more than a year ago the HP-65 engen- 
dered an organization of enthusiastic 
users. Now that organization even has 
its own publication — 65 Notes — a 
monthly newsletter edited and pub- 
lished by Richard J. Nelson, 2541 West 
Camden Place, Santa Ana, CA 92704. 
If the HP-65 could do all that, imagine 
what's waiting for the complete (i.e., 
delivered assembled with A/N key- 
board, display) BASIC system under 
$1000 that can’t be more than a year 
or two away. 


2K STATIC RAM 


Fairchild Camera & Instrument has an- 
nounced a 2,048-bit static N-channel 
RAM chip oriented to microprocessors 
and peripheral equipment. The new 
3539 is organized as 256 x 8 bits, and 
is available in two versions with maxi- 
mum access times of 650 and 500 nsec. 
Two separate chip-select inputs allow 
direct expansion to 512 bytes of mem- 
ory. The device has a power dissipation 
of less than 500 milliwatts, and requires 
only a single 5-volt power supply. In- 
puts and outputs are compatible with 
standard TTL circuitry. The 3539 is 
available in a standard 22-pin DIP pack- 
age. Pricing in 100 quantities is $8.50 
for the 650 nsec 3539, and $9 for the 
500 nsec 3539-2. 


TRIPROCESSOR 


Rolm’s new Model 1664 features a 
hardware variable precision floating 
point processor that operates simulta- 
neously with a microprogrammed 


general-purpose processor and a direct 
memory access processor. Designed for 
military or severe environment applica- 
tions, the 1664 has a conductive cool- 





ing system that makes internal fans or 
coolants unnecessary. A full software 
offering, including SOS, RTOS and 
RDOS operating systems, and Fortran 
IV, Algol and Basic, is available. 


A SINGER STILL HEARD 


The Singer Corporation is no longer 
singing the praises of its own data prod- 
ucts, but its recent withdrawal from 
the edp and pos manufacturing scenes 
has not taken it completely out of 
hearing. Recently it was learned that 
the firm’s Simulation Products Divi- 
sion has begun to install 32-bit com- 
puters from Interdata under a contract 
exceeding $500,000. The Interdata 
Model 7/32 and 8/32 computers are 
part of the Orbiter Aeroflight Simula- 
tor being built by Singer for the NASA 
space shuttle program. The systems are 
being installed at Singer/NASA facili- 
ties in Binghamton, NY; Huntsville, 
AL; and Houston, TX. 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


IBM 5100 TRIAL OFFER 


If you've been wanting an IBM 5100 
to carry around but have been reluctant 
to spend at least $8975 until you 
know how it will fit in for you, it's 
now possible to pilot test it. Under the 
IBM plan, you can have a 16K BASIC 
machine for three months for $1350 
or for six months for $2700. But then 
you have to decide. If you buy, part of 
the pilot test cost can be applied to 
the purchase price. The plan is available 
for all models of the 5100. In conjunc- 
tion with the plan, IBM announced a 
serial I/O adapter. The RS-232C inter- 
face allows attachment of non-IBM 
peripherals such as instrumentation de- 
vices, plotters, printers and CRTs. The 
interface sells for $700 and leases for 
three months for $105. According to 
IBM, this will enable users to test for 
instrumentation applications before 
they buy, but concessions from IBM 
might also mean that the 5100 isn’t 
moving as fast as IBM thought it 
would. And for those who want a real 
lease, Time Sharing Resources (Great 
Neck, NY) is offering three, four and 
five-year pay-out leases of the 5100. A 
supplier of APL time sharing, Time 
Sharing Resources is interested in sell- 
ing its online services to the 5100 user. 


DON'T BE FOOLED 


The apparent ease with which a micro- 
processor can be selected and imple- 
mented in a product has led to several 
major misconceptions, says Don 
McDonald, Manager of Computer De- 
velopment for Technology Marketing 
Inc., a Costa Mesa (CA) computer de- 
sign firm. These include overestimating 
the capabilities of micros, underesti- 
mating their complexity, and failing to 
distinguish important differences in 
the function and performance of avail- 
able chips. Warns McDonald: “Most 
designers like to use the latest tech- 
nology available, and many are in- 
trigued by the idea of the microproces- 
sor which often sounds like a great so- 
lution to their problem when they 
read about it. Similarly, corporate ex- 
ecutives can easily succumb to the 
glamour of a ‘computer on a chip’ and 
direct their engineers to use it without 
fully understanding the level of exper- 
tise needed to design one into a system 
and attain the required cost and per- 
formance goals. The potential trap is 
that it’s every bit as complicated to de- 
sign using a microprocessor as it is to 
incorporate a minicomputer into a 
system.” 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


/mini/miero news 





into NEC’s electrically alterable 
PROM (uPD45D), 


2K-bit, N- 
channel memory chip with an 
access time of 800 nanoseconds. 
Software for the PDA-80 is sup- 
plied at purchase and consists of a 
series of punched paper tapes 
including text editor, macro assem- 
bler, online debugger and diagnos- 
tics. A tape loader/monitor program 
can be resident in the system’s 
internal ROM (optional). Prices 
start at $4095. For more informa- 
tion, Circle No. 80 on Reader 
Inquiry Card. 


“Complete” Means 


SILVER MEDAL FOR 
NATIONAL SEMI, GOLD FOR MITS 


National Semiconductor recently out- 
fitted a leisure van with PACE and 
IMP-16 demonstration systems and a 


— i 


—mNS 





full complement of microprocessor 
support equipment. The van visits cus- 
tomer locations in southern California 
to support training sessions and aid cus- 
tomers in developing software. Na- 
tional Semi deserves credit for putting 
the idea into action, but we feel obliged 
to take issue with the company’s state- 
ment that the concept marks a “first 
in the microprocessor industry.” MITS, 
of Altair 8800 and Altair 680 fame, 
has been driving its similarly-equipped 
MITSmobile around the country for 
more than a year. 


UNBELIEVABLE!!!!! 
The Intecolor® 8001 


A Complete 8 COLOR 
Intelligent CRT 
Terminal 


$1,995* 


e 8080 CPU + 25 Line x 80 Character/Line ° 4Kx8 RAM ° PROM Software 
e Sockets for UV Erasable PROM + 19" Shadow Mask Color CR Tube 


e RS232 I/O ° Sockets for 64 Special Graphics + Selectable Baud Rates to 
9600 Baud + Single Package ° 8 Color Monitor + ASCII Set 
e Keyboard ° Bell e Manual 


And you also get the Intecolor* 8001 9 sector Convergence System for 
ease of set up (3-5 minutes) and stability. 


Additional Options Available: 


* Rolls Additional RAM to 32K ° 48 Line x 80 Characters/Line ° Light Pens 
* Limited Graphics Mode ° Background Color ° Special Graphic Characters 


e Games 
*Quantity 100 (Unit Price $2,495.) 


ISC WILL MAKE A BELIEVER OUT OF YOU! 


AC] 


Intelligent Systems corp., 4376 Ridge Gate Drive, Duluth, Georgia 30136 





Telephone (404) 449-5961 


CIRCLE NO. 18 ON INQUIRY CARD 





41 








DEC'S BIG BRIDGE 


The DECsystem 20 ties the knot in a now unbroken string 
between micro (LSI-11) and giant (DECsystem 1080). 


The 36-bit DECsystem 20, specifically the 2040, is a 
dual-processor offering. The KL20 CP is a smaller, 3-board 
ECL version of the TTL-implemented KL10, and is some 
2-1/2-times faster. The second processor, a PDP-11/40, is 
dedicated to unit-record peripherals, console operations, 
terminal communications and diagnostics. The entire proces- 
sor unit (CPUs, memory and I/O controllers) occupies only 
28 ft”. 

Main memory is core — up to 1M bytes. Because of the 
2040s virtual memory, high-speed data channels (7M bytes/ 





¿020020 DECSYSTEM-20 


bly language programming. 

TOPS-20, the 2040’s operating system, is the most ambi- 
tious software undertaking in DEC’s history. It appears to in- 
corporate every resource management feature provided in the 
DECsystem 10, and to surpass the 10 in the areas of error 
correction, data security, restart/reinitialize, and communi- 
cations. The TOPS-20 development effort was an outgrowth 
of DEC’s experience with the now 6-year-old TENEX operat- 
ing system developed for the ARPA packet-switching net- 





HA 


Digital Equipment’s new DECsystem 20 features a PDP-11 utility processor as well as a new ECL-version of the processor contained in the 
largest DECsystem 10s. The 36-bit word length computer closes the gap between DEC's smallest and largest product lines. 


sec. bandwidth) and overlapped I/O “Massbus” controller 
organization, the system is described as having relatively 
little to gain from semiconductor memory. It should be 
noted, of course, that DEC strings its own cores and does 
not produce its own ICs. At least not currently. 

Software is comprehensive, reflecting the system’s multi- 
functional capabilities in the areas of interactive and trans- 
actional timesharing as well as batch usage. Languages sup- 
ported include Cobol, Fortran, Basic, Algol and APL. DEC’s 
ANSI-68 Cobol supports ISAM and DBMS. There is also 
MACRO for users who might wish to do their own assem- 


42 


10s presently interconnected to the ARPAnet, 17 run under 
TENEX. Needless to say, DEC has incorporated that com- 
munications know-how into TOPS-20, even to the point of 
offering a remote diagnostic (shades of Amdahl) capability. 

The minimum hardware configuration for the 2040 con- 
sists of the KL20/PDP-11/40 processor pair with 64K 36-bit 
words on the KL20 and 32K 16-bit words on the PDP-11; 
a 100 Mbyte disk drive; a 75 ips, 1600 bpi tape unit; eight 
communication lines; and an LA36 keyboard printer. Entry 
level price is $250K. By the end of 1976 DEC expects to be 
manufacturing — and delivering — one every working day! m 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 





Introducing IDDS 
a high speed International Digital Data Soo 
that gives you two for the price of one. 


i | š 


Simultaneously, via satellite and labman 
cable, your data is delivered to Europe. 
While you pay for only one transmission, 
our dual path overseas network, combined 
with advanced end-to-end digital tech- 
niques, brings you a new dimension in 
international data communications. WUI 
- is both proud and pleased to introduce 
f _IDDS, our nation 's first international 
rvice. IDDS perform- 
s First Class through- 
ut el to give you 
high- quality, virtually error- 
freeservice with unsurpassed 
reliability Adaptability? From 


s or synchronous... 

00 bits per second. 
a me- “sensitive rate 
-~ structure is attrac 


Write, or call Mr. L.A. Cohen’ today at 
(212) 363-3917 for à complete echnical 
description of IDDS. 














product profile 


BARBARA A. REYNOLDS / Associate Editor 





ALPHANUMERIC 








DISPLAS TERMINALS 





Part 1. The CRT Market and Technology — Where They Stand Now. 


This first part of a 2-part product profile on alphanumeric cathode ray terminals (CRTs) 
discusses how and why they came about, what they do, and how they do it. 


It all began about 15 years ago when an engineer without a 
television to quiet his nerves got tired of listening to the 
teleprinter. Experimental vacuum tube prototypes were 
first. Then came integrated circuits and cathode ray tubes. 
But high prices and lack of hard copy output stalled imme- 
diate acceptance of CRTs as interactive terminals. The Tele- 
type was still king. 


ENTER THE COMPUTER GIANT 


In 1966 came the stamp of approval for the industry to 
exist. IBM introduced the 2260 Display Station. To this 
clustered terminal system, IBM added the 2265 stand-alone 
system in 1967. Both terminals were originally designed to 
communicate with the 360. Soon independents entered to 
compete with the 2260 by offering lower prices, larger 
screens and more terminals per controller. In 1971, as 2260 
revenues leveled, IBM introduced the 3270, providing lower 
cost, higher transmission speeds, a larger screen, increased 
cursor control and editing capabilities and more extensive 
hard copy printer options. 


THEN THE COMMUNICATIONS GIANT 


As some independents pursued the IBM replacement mar- 
ket, others went after the teleprinter replacement market. 
The rock bottom KSR-33 at $500 was hard to beat pricewise, 
but CRTs were quickly approaching the $1000 mark and 
offering significant advantages. They had faster access and 
transfer rates, editing capability, electronic instead of me- 
chanical operation, and optional printers were available for 
hard copy. 

According: to the Venture Development Corp. study, 
1975’s interactive terminal market was 1.28 million units. 
Teleprinters made up 51 percent; CRTs 33 percent. More 
important was the fact that the CRT market had been grow- 
ing at a 25 percent annual rate for the past five years. 

Teletype saw this trend developing in the early 1970s 
and declining revenues made it impossible to ignore. In 
1973, Teletype Corp. (a subsidiary of AT&T’s Western 
Electric) introduced the Model 40 Data Terminal. AT&T 


This profile is based largely on a study A/phanumeric and Graphic 


CRT Terminals recently prepared by Venture Development Corp., 
a nationally recognized marketing research and technology assess- 
ment firm. Only a few of the many market breakdowns and projec- 
tions contained in the study are mentioned in this article. For more 
information on the 203-page study, write Venture Development 
Corp., One Washington St., Wellesley, MA 02181. 


44 


followed with the Dataspeed 40 service using the Model 
40. AT&T/Teletype hoped this would halt the spread of the 
independents’ teleprinter replacement market (and maybe 
halt the spread of their fellow giant). 


TWO GIANTS AND ONE MARKET 

According to Venture Development estimates, the CRT 
1975 installed base was 418,000 units. Of these, 97.6 
percent, or 412,000, were alphanumeric and the remainder 
were graphic or combination graphic-alphanumeric. The 
alphanumeric terminal market was controlled by IBM's 
3270 and compatibles, followed by teleprinter replacements 
(see Fig. 1). To show which segment has been growing most 
rapidly, Venture obtained 1974 shipment volumes (see Fig. 






IBM 2260 + compatibles 


















Teleprinter 
Replacements 


Teletype 
Model 40 3 
IBM 3270 + compatibles 
Independent 
Systems (Data 
courtesy of 
Venture 


Development 
Manufacturers Corp.) 


Fig. 1 — 1975 CRT Terminal Installed Base (percent of units) 


2). Total shipments were 118,000 terminals. The 3270 still 
led, followed by teleprinter replacements. The 2260 was 
rapidly declining in volume and the Teletype Model 40 was 
growing. Independents and mainframe manufacturers (other 
than IBM) were remaining relatively stable. 


IBM 
2260 + compatibles 





Teleprinter 


Replacements IBM 3270 + compatibles 


Teletype 

Model 40 

Independent (Data 

Systems courtesy of 
Venture 


Other Mainframe 
Manufacturers 


Development 
Corp.) 


Fig. 2— 1974 CRT Terminal Shipments (percent of units) 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


INDUSTRY STANDARDS: WHAT THEY LOOK LIKE 


Independents pursue four major markets; 2260, 3270, tele- 
printer replacements, and soon the Teletype Model 40. 
These are some characteristics of the market standards. 


IBM 2260. If high data throughput and keyboard editing 
features are not important, the 2260 (and 2265) are still 
viable systems. However, IBM no longer produces them and 
discourages their use by not supporting them under newer 
operating systems. The 2260 is a clustered system, per- 
mitting up to 24 display stations. The stand-alone version, 
the 2265, operates with a display control also and is avail- 





The First Industry Standard: IBM's 2260 Display Station 


able in remote configurations only. Both models display a 
64<haracter ASCII code set and have a Selectric-like key- 
board with optioral numeric keypads. Maximum display 
capacity is 960 characters, 12 lines of 80 characters per line. 
The 2260 uses a raster driven 5x7 dot matrix; the 2265 uses 
the cursive stroke technique. Remote configurations com- 
municate asynchronously over 1200-bit per second (bps) 
lines in half-duplex mode. An optional printer is available 
for both models. Besides small size, the 2260 and 2265 are 
dated due to their limited cursor controls and editing facili- 
ties. Independents have been less willing than IBM to forget 
what they felt was a good thing. They enhanced their 2260 
compatibles by offering lower prices, larger screen sizes, 
more terminals per cluster, and additional editing and for- 
mat handling features. 


IBM 3270. An improvement over the 2260 in terms of 
price, features and transmission speeds, the 3270 is the pres- 
ent industry standard. And it probably will remain so until 
at least 1978, according to Venture Development. The 
3270 comes in clustered versions, permitting up to 32 ter- 
minals, or in stand-alone versions with integrated controllers. 
Display sizes are either 480 characters (12 lines of 40 char- 
acters each) or 1920 characters (24 by 80). Each display 
can generate either EBCDIC or (optionally) ASCII character 
codes, and characters are formed by a 7x9 dot matrix. Key- 
boards are available with either 66 keys or 78 keys including 
12 program-defined function keys, and all include cursor 
control, back tab, character insert and delete keys. Remote 
systems can communicate at speeds up to 7200 bps using 
either IBM’s BSC (Binary Synchronous Control) or SDLC 
(Synchronous Data Link Control) transmission protocols. 
Three printers are available with speeds ranging up to 125 
lines per minute. The independents have countered IBM’s 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 








THE COMPUTER SOFTWARE 
PACKAGES & PACKAGED COMPUTER 
SERVICES MARKET 


According to a Frost & Sullivan survey, the number of computer soft- 
ware packages and packaged services purchased by users in 1974 
was 72% greater than in 1973, and more than half of these were 
purchased directly. Approximately 70% of them were used without 
modification. 

Frost & Sullivan has completed a 193-page report analyzing and 
forecasting the computer software packages and packaged computer 
services market. The primary input for the report was a complex and 
highly detailed questionnaire survey responded to by 221 users. 
Other sources of information include a questionnaire survey of sup- 
pliers (the respondents sell to thousands of users and their responses 
were matched with the users’ replies), supplier and selected user 
interviews, trade and financial sources, and Frost & Sullivan studies 
completed and in process. The report is organized in these seven 
categories, and sales forecasts to 1984 are provided for them and 
for selected software packages and packaged services: hardware 
dependent/dedicated packages; systems software packages; stand- 
ard software packages; general applications packages; industry- 
oriented application packages; general packaged services; and special 
industry and data base services. The report breaks down the types of 
users and suppliers, tabulates the products and services used and 
supplied, analyzes the life cycle characteristics of the packages and 
services from supplier conception and development to user selection 
and ultimate replacement, identifies voids in the current marketplace 
and the needs of current and potential users, and reports on the plans 
of current and potential users. General trends in the computer indus- 
try, including problems and opportunities, and significant factors in 
the general marketplace which affect the market for software pack- 
ages and packaged services, are considered. 

Price $575. Send your check or we will bill you. For free descriptive 
literature plus a detailed table of contents contact: 


FROST & SULLIVAN, INC. 
E 106 Fulton Street 

New York, New York 10038 

(212) 233-1080 








We've got a display terminal 
to solve your text editing 
problem 


A DELTA display terminal with full 
text editing capabilities. 7" 





* Extended memory for recovering large amounts <“ ` 
of text Sag 
* Large, bright. easy-to-read characters iz, 
° Reliable, trouble-free performance 
è Extensive text editing features — Ta 
* Upper/lower case character set 
* Nationwide service 
è Simple operation 


Handling your text on a DELTA display terminal is 


positively charging. Contact us quickly for more data. and Canada 


CIRCLE NO. 20 ON INQUIRY CARD 











Corporation 
Woodhaven Industrial Park 
Cornwells Heights, PA 19020 
(215) 639-9400 


DELTA DATA SYSTEMS, LTD. 
London. 01-580-7621 


Service in 42 locations in the 
U.S. and 13 European countries 


45 










































DIABLO INTRODUCES MATURE 

DISK STORAGE 

The latest introduction of a new line of disk files 
for the small computer industry, the Diablo 
Series 400, combines a comprehensive, wide- 
ranging. compatible product line with technical 
innovations which would have brought screaming 
headlines not many years ago. The Series 400 con- 
sists of a compatible family of 8 disk drives, rang- 
ing in capacity from 13.3 Mbytes (in one removable 
disk) to 53.3 Mbytes (the removable disk plus up 
to 3 fixed disks), in price from under $2500 to 
$3600, and available in both top and front-loading 
models, all in the same package size. Price per 
megabyte has been reduced 30 to 50 percent. The 
new disks incorporate several technological innova- 
tions. An inertial actuator, operating on a fly-wheel 
principle, reduces the power required to position 
the head mechanism by a factor of 50. The fly- 
wheel drive accomodates two independent posi- 
tioners, one for the removable disk and the other 
serving the fixed disks. DC power is provided by a 
motor generator set driven through the inertial 
system, thereby providing complete isolation from 
the power line, and protection against power 
interruptions; this also permits the drive to con- 
tinue operating for 150 milliseconds after power 
fails. Another important new feature is track posi- 
tioning through pre-recorded servo data written in 
each sector, so that each head operates in a closed- 
loop servo on the track it is seeking; this should 
significantly increase positioning accuracy, improve 
pack interchangeability, increase thermal range of 
operation, and eliminate the need for special disk 
packs for head calibration. With all of these goodies, 
the inclusion of a microprocessor for logic control, 
internal diagnostics, and interface adaptations, 
seems suddenly mundane. Access time is 10 ms 
track to track, 40 ms average, and transfer rate is 









VOLUME 1 NUMBER 16 © DECEMBER 29, 1975 








A FORTNIGHTLY NEWSLETTER 


655 Mbytes/sec. We applaud both the solid engi- 
neering achievements, and the sensible systems 
approach and broad compatible line embodied in 
this new family of storage devices for the mini- 
micro industry. Diablo, which in only 6 years has 
come from a couple of guys laboring in the shadow 
of Mount Diablo to the thriving flagship of the 
almost-weekly-increasing Xerox presence in the 
minimicro industry, appears to have made a signifi- 
cant contribution to our emergence as a mature 
and stable industry. 


DISK STORAGE IS AN 

IMPORTANT MINIPERIPHERAL 

Disk drives are the second most numerous 
peripheral that users plan to add to their minicom- 
puter systems, according to Modern Data's 1975 
Minicomputer Market Survey; printers (see mini- 
micro system) ran first. Cartridge drives were the 
designated form of disk storage for nearly half of 
those planning to buy such peripherals, followed 
by floppy disks with about 25% of the projected 
market, with head-per-track-drives a poor third. 
Diablo was designated as the disk cartridge drive 
vendor of nearly half of the users; Century Data 
gamered about 20%. In the floppy disk area 
the leading vendors were Calcomp and Memorex 
sharing about 2/3 of the business, followed by 
Shugart with about 15%. Digital Development and 
Data Disk were the leading head-per-track vendors. 





INSIDE MINIMICRO SYSTEMS 
THIS FORTNIGHT 

| 8080 Prices Punge Further... 

| Mini-Certeidge and Tape Deck from 3M - 

| PLUGPROM — Micro Programming and Debugging Ai 

| 

| 

| 






Multi-Million $ Contracts for DEC, Nat'l Semiconductor 
Teletype Adds to Model 40 Family, 
micro Interview — with May for 
Another Calculator Winner . . 
| Earning Up At Datapoint and Ing 
| Computer Product: 


L Minimicro Calenda 














EDITOR Dan M. Bowers * MANAGING EDITOR Linds Ladd Lovett 


Published fortnightly and copyrighted 1975 by MODERN DATA SERVICES, INI 
may not be reproduced in whole or in part without written permission. All cored 
Hudson, MA 01749 bal 


* MINIMICRO SYSTEMS * 5 Kane Industrial Drive * 

















offering with their versions, offering 10-20 percent lower 
prices and special features such as local, random access stor- 
age for display formats, cassette storage of input data, char- 
acter blink capability, numeric keyboard options, 9600-bps 
transmission rate and full upper- and lowercase keyboards. 


pata — y TE 3 


3 
4 
1 
3 





Today's Industry Standard: IBM's 3270 Display Station 


Teleprinter Replacements. Price is the crucial factor in 
this market with CRTs trying to approach teleprinter prices 
(less than $1000). Ranges of operating characteristics in this 
market are far and wide (see “Specification Ranges and 
Norms ”’). 


Teletype Model 40. Although priced at the upper end of 
the teleprinter replacement market, the Model 40 is expected 
by Venture Development to become a mimicked model as it 





— 


An Up and Coming Standard: Teletype’s Model 40 Data Terminal 


takes an increasing share of that market. It has a 1920-char- 
acter display (24 lines by 80 characters) with a full 128- 
character set (upper- and lowercase). Character generation 
is with a 7x9 dot matrix. The terminal transmits asynchro- 
nously at speeds of 110 to 4800 bps. Also available are edit- 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 

















ome people a 
getal = 
the breaks. 


They use IDEAL pressure-sensitive tape patches. 
These extra long patches (actually 37% longer) can 
takecareofalmostany break, except coffee breaks. 
And they stick resolutely to all tapes, even oiled 
tapes. The back comes right off and the fully- 
punched, perfectly aligned holes prevent the loss 
of a single character. Get all your breaks. With 
IDEAL pressure-sensitive tape patches. 


For additional information, 
write us: Donauld Inc., PO 
Box 104 Ridgewood, NJ 
07451 (201) 444-6573. 


DONAULD Inc. 


You can't splice it any finer. 








CIRCLE NO. 22 ON INQUIRY CARD 


We've got a display terminal 
to solve your data retrieval 
problem 


A DELTA display terminal that handles 
large display formats. 







* Bright, easily readable characters minimize eye fatigue 

* Simplified keyboard helps reduce operator errors 

* High speed data transfer rates to 500,000 cps 

* Accommodates large formats with many 
lines 

* Line drawing for forms, charts and 
graphs 

* Up to 3072 characters of display 
memory 

* Nationwide customer service 

* Reliable operation 


r 


Delta 
Data 
Systems 
Corporation 


Woodhaven Industrial Park 
Cornwells Heights, PA 19020 
(215) 639-9400 


DELTA DATA SYSTEMS, LTD 
London: 01-580-7621 

+ r r m m Service in 42 locations in the 
Stay on top of the situation with a DELTA display terminal. US. and 13 EEn couniries 
Call or write for more information now. and Canada 


CIRCLE NO. 21 ON INOUIRY CARD 
47 





It's a whole year’s worth 
of user forums, 


MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW: Computerizing small organizations ° Minicomputer projections ° Developing Career 
Paths + Equipment and Financing Alternatives 

SOFTWARE 76: Audit Software & Data Security ° Data Base Management Packages + Software as a Measure- 
ment Tool + Packaged Applications 

COMPUTER NETWORKS: Distributed Computing ° Network Planning/On-Line Terminals and their Applications 
and Transmission Methods + Selection and Use of Front-End Processors 


product exhibits 


Data Acquisition and Controls ° Data Capture Units e COM Units e Terminals e Modems + Couplers ° Minicom- 
puters ° Miniperipherals + Teleprinters ° Optical Scanning Systems ° Performance Measurement Systems ° 
Printers e Card Punches + Software Packages ° Leasing Services ° Storage Units and Memories ° Key-to-Disk 
Systems + Plotters ° Multiplexers ° Mag Tape and Disks ° Timesharing Services ° and much more. 


and productseminars 


Each Caravan day. From 2 PM to 5 PM. Specific product information from exhibitors. Specific problem discussions. 
In-depth, first-hand information. Free to all Caravan Exhibition ticketholders. Unique feature of Computer 
Caravan 76. 


and it's coming to 
a city near you! 























BOSTON Mar. 2-4 Northeast Trade Center 
At Route 128 (Exits 39 and 40) 
NEW YORK Mar. 9-11 New York Coliseum 
WASHINGTON, D.C. Mar. 16-18 Sheraton Park Hotel 
ATLANTA Mar. 23-25 Atlanta Merchandise Mart 
DETROIT Mar. 30-Apr. 1 Cobo Hall 
CHICAGO Apr. 13-15 McCormick Place 
DALLAS Apr. 20-22 Market Hall 
LOS ANGELES May 4-6 L.A. Convention Center 
SAN FRANCISCO May 11-13 San Francisco Civic Auditorium 
pp e ee ee manan waran A aazam Caza ee Camana A umama Canan maan ee es oe ee A y 
Whether you want to catch eer | 
up Of keep up, sign up now? | the Computer Caravan/76 | 
| 797 Washington Street, Newton, Mass. 02160 (617) 965-5800 l 
l O Please send me further information and a registration form for l 
l The Computer Caravan Users’ Forum. I understand that no l 
| advance registration is required for the Exhibition. l 
= | O Please send me a free guest ticket for the Exhibition only. | 
- - Name l 
l Title _ = || 
| ñ I 
I Company l 
l Address Tr l 
Sponsored by THE CONFERENCE COMPANY : Citv State _ "e | 
a division of COMPUTERWORLD, INC. 
797 Washington Street, Newton, Mass. 02160 (617) 965-5800 AAA it E A sS s s] 


48 MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


ing features and a broad selection of communication inter- 
faces permitting half or full-duplex operations. Three ver- 
sions are available: receive only printer; keyboard and dis- 
play; and keyboard, display and printer. 


SPECIFICATION RANGES AND NORMS 


According to the Venture Development 1975 study, the 
1920-character, 12-inch diagonal screen display is the most 
popular, with 54 percent of the installed base. The 480- 
character, S-inch display is gaining in popularity, and the 
960-character screen is decreasing in popularity. Character 
generation isusually witha 5x7 or7x9 dot matrix, each having 
almost equal market shares, but with the trend towards the 
7x9 matrix. A 64-character set with uppercase alphabet, 
numerals and punctuation is used in 64 percent of the 
installed base; the 96-character set in 23 percent; the 128- 
character set in 12 percent. A typewriter keyboard is used 
in 80 percent of the applications. Remote transmission 
speeds are 4800 bps or lower in 90 percent of the cases, 
with half-duplex mode most often used. ASCII has become 
synonymous with asynchronous transmission just as BSC 
and SDLC, both developed by IBM, have become synony- 
mous for synchronous transmission. SDLC, IBM’s newest 
line discipline, is expected eventually to replace BSC. 
Printers are used in 32 percent of the installations. Other 
peripherals the Venture study found popular were the tape 
cassette and the floppy disk. 


CRT TECHNOLOGY: 
OLD BUT NOTHING BETTER YET 


The technology is more than 15 years old, but cathode ray 
tubes are still the least expensive, most reliable method of 


ST AI EET ST ET 










CRT 
Display 
Monitor 


CRT 
Control Unit 


Microprocessor 












Keyboard 





or 
Hard-wired 
Controller 






Communications 
Printer Line 
Interface 


Other 


Peripherals 








Fig. 3 — Alphanumeric CRT Block Diagram 


interactive display. The basic CRT consists of a display 
monitor, control unit, controller, and a keyboard (see Fig. 
3). A printer, the communications interface and other pe- 
ripherals can also be added. 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 





11/05 21MX 11/45 2100 
N cO 
S GRAPHICS ° 
a O 
NH 2d odia fil 








j 


DEC*-11 ES 
4411 GRAPHIC mE GRAPHIC 


HP-2100 series 


11/35 


VIDEO 
GENERATOR 


(one SPC slot) 


VIDEO 
GENERATOR 


(one 1/0 slot) 


2116 





@SINGLE PC CARD 


plugs into CPU or Extender 


m= 
O TV REFRESH from 4K RAMS $ 


256 X 256 dot matrix 


@ COLOR/GREY SCALE 


using multiple cards 


e DELIVERY FROM STOCK 


DEC: 4411GVG — $2750 
HP: 4416 GVG — $2500 


= intermedia systems 
N. 10601 S. Saratoga-Sunnyvale Rd. 
Cupertino, CA 95014 (408) 996-0900 


*Reg. T.M. of Digital Equipment Corporation 


2114 11/40 


SU/LL 


11/20 
Ic99S 


CIRCLE NO. 24 ON INQUIRY CARD 


We've got a display terminal to 
solve your order entry problem 


A DELTA display terminal for handling , 
large amounts of data. 













* Automatic tab to data fields reduces input time 
* Light pen capability for fast decisions 

* Up to 3072 characters can be displayed 
° Reliable, trouble-free performance 

è Nationwide service—42 locations 

* Bright, easy-to-read characters 

* Easy-to-use keyboard 


‘orporation 
Woodhaven Industrial Park 
Cornwells Heights,PA 19020 
(215) 639-9400 





DELTA DATA SYSTEMS, LTD. 
London: 01-580-7621 


Service in 42 locations in the 
U.S., and 13 European countries 
and Canada. 


Don't let order entry become a pain in the neck. 
Ask for details about DELTA display terminals today. 


CIRCLE NO. 23 ON INQUIRY CARD 
49 


50 


y ss 
NS a A 
spe pisses SY sac aos 
ee nen hae m e 
¿And S aes ` 


em pes 


THE KEYBOARD TO STORAGE MARKET 


The keyboard to storage market in 1975-1984, will total 
$7.5 billion — and its makeup will change dramatically. 
By 1980, 50% of the keyboard to disc sales will be mixed 
media systems with optical readers. 


Frost & Sullivan has completed a 190-page analysis of the 
market for keyboard to storage systems, including a fore- 
cast of the nature, size, opportunities and competitive 
structure of the market. Specific sales forecasts, in dollars 
and number of units, are given through 1984 for: keyboard 
to computer compatible tape systems; keyboard to disc 
systems (3 types); mixed media systems (2 types); key- 
board to storage terminals (3 types). Product descriptions 
and comparisons, advantages and limitations, pricing, 
expected technological developments and an application 
analysis, are discussed. Expected configuration changes 
are identified. Recommendations for improvements are 
made. A questionnaire survey of end users furnished in- 
formation on their future purchasing plans, satisfaction 
with equipment and software features desired, and a rating 
of the systems in use, by manufacturer. 


Price $595. Send your check or we will bill you. For free 
descriptive literature plus a detailed table of contents 
contact: 


FROST & SULLIVAN, INC. 
= 106 Fulton Street 

New York, New York 10038 

(212) 233-1080 














Display Monitor. Something like a high quality television 
monitor with turning circuits deleted, the common raster 
scan CRT display consists of a horizontal array of lines 
(typically 525 lines) that cover the screen from top to bot- 
tom. A beam of electrons strikes the screen, which is coated 
with a phosphor, and results in a small bright spot. The spot 
is deflected from left to right along each horizontal scan line 
and then quickly retraced to the next lower scan line, where 
the deflection is repeated.until the entire screen has been 
covered from top to bottom. This scan of the entire screen 
is continually repeated at a typical rate of 60 times per 
second. The spot can be turned on or off at any point in 
time, which implies that the screen can be effectively di- 
vided into a large matrix of dots, each of which can be inde- 
pendently controlled. By illuminating selected dots on the 
screen, characters can be formed and information displayed. 


The phosphor on the screen is characterized by its color 
and persistence level. Persistence is the amount of time it 
takes for the light to decay to an imperceptible level. The 
most common phosphor used, called P4, has a white light 
and a relatively short persistence level. Due to the short 
persistence, information on the screen must be “refreshed” 
50 or 60 times per second so that the image will appear 
stable to the eye. Green phosphors have a longer persistence 
level but are not as bright. 


Control Unit. The character generator, refresh memory 
and cursor come under the control unit’s jurisdiction. The 
character generator determines the character dot matrix, 
size of the character set, number of characters per display, 
number of characters per row, and number of rows per 
display. The refresh memory is usually implemented by a 
shift register or random access memory. It is used to store 
each individual character in the form of a six to eight-bit 
character code. A large memory (3K to 16K bits) and fast 
access time (400 to 1200-nanoseconds) are necessary to 
retrieve each character displayed on the screen at a rate of 
60 times-per second. The refresh memory acts as a buffer 
between the high speed CRT display and a lower speed 
microprocessor or communication line. 


A cursor is used to identify the position on the display 
where the next character is to be entered. The cursor is gen- 
erally nondestructive and does not erase the information 
currently displayed on the screen. Several distinct symbols 
are used as cursors, but the most common implementation 
is the underline. The cursor is sometimes designed to blink 
at a 1 Hz to 6 Hz rate in order to attract the operator’s at- 
tention. Controls for the cursor may be implemented in 
hardware or software, but newer systems are likely to rely 
on software. 


Controller. This is the “heart” of every terminal. It co- 
ordinates the sequence and flow of data within the termi- 
nal by: 


e Recognizing a keyboard depression and decoding the 
character 

Sending data to the printer when it is idle 
Sending/receiving data via the communication line 
Retrieving/storing data from/into memory 
Performing I/O interface control 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


Terminal controller technology during the past decade 
has paralleled the advancements made in the integrated cir- 
cuits industry. The development of the RAM, ROM, and 
the microprocessor have had the most significant impact. 
In the 1960s, terminal controllers were “hard-wired,” or 
custom designed, for specific applications (i.e., stock quote 
or airline reservation systems). A new application would 
require redesign of the controller and months of engineering/ 
production efforts. Obviously, the main drawback of hard- 
wired controllers was the lack of flexibility. Prior to the 
introduction of the microprocessor, several terminal manu- 
facturers designed custom microcomputers that used RAM 
as a temporary storage device and ROM to store instructions 
and canned messages. As technology progressed, the micro- 
processor replaced the custom-designed microcomputers. 
This made CRTs much more flexible. Hardware design 
could now remain static and software could change to satisfy 
specific applications. 


FLICKERS, PINCUSHIONS AND BELLYDANCING 


These are just some of the problems with present CRT tech- 
nology. Screen flicker is the most common problem. It can 
be corrected by adding a filter in front of the screen, using 
a longer-persistence phosphor or increasing the refresh rate. 
However, a dense filter cuts down brightness, which is also 
the result of using a longer-persistence phosphor. Increasing 
the refresh rate can cause a form of distortion called “‘belly- 
dancing” (snake-like undulation of screen information). 
Screen focus is another problem. “Pincushioning” distor- 
tion is caused by curvature of the screen — a sharp focus in 
the center results in out-of-focus corners. (The converse of 
this is “barrel?” distortion.) Also, there are horizontal and 
vertical linearity problems, i.e., inconsistent character height, 
width, and shape. Although relatively minor, CRTs do 
have drawbacks, but there’s still nothing else around with 
fewer problems for the same price. 


SMART OR DUMB 


The level of intelligence of a CRT terminal is extremely dif- 
ficult to quantify, and many manufacturers are guilty of 
“specsmanship.” The classification of a terminal as “smart” 
or “dumb” has little significance, because all terminals have 
some level of intelligence. The level of intelligence can be 
determined by evaluating units for the following sophisti- 
cated functions: 


Programmable by user or manufacturer 

Processing capabilities (arithmetic/logical) 

Formatted data entry with protected fields and editing 
Cursor controls 


Special functions keys (page rolling, line delete, page 
erase, etc.) 


Interrupts via keyboard /communication line 


e Preprocessing of communication data/block 
transmission 


e Auxiliary I/O control (printer, cassette, disk) 


CRTs: LONE AND CLUSTERED 


As it turns out, most CRTs are not alone. Clustered termi- 
nals account for 52 percent of the 1975 installed base: 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 





stand-alone for 48 percent, according to Venture Develop- 
ment estimates. However, over 90 percent of teleprinter re- 
placements are stand-alones. The average cluster includes a 
controller and 6.8 terminals. But the cluster size is expected 
to increase due to declining terminal prices and distributed 
processing. The trend toward distributed processing can 
also be confirmed by analyzing the local and remote distri- 
bution of CRTs. Local terminals made up 56 percent of the 
1975 installed base; remote terminals 44 percent. However, 
in terms of 1974 shipments, local applications accounted 
for 46 percent, remote for 56 percent. Venture Develop- 
ment attributes this trend to AT&T’s changing communica- 
tions policies. As communications lines increase in quality 
and data transmission costs decrease, remote terminals 
become more cost-effective. Also part of the distributed 
processing trend is the movement toward programmable 
CRTs using either a minicomputer or microprocessor. The 
lower cost microprocessor is replacing the mini and is be- 
coming an integral part of many CRTs because it gives them 
added flexibility. Although only 9 percent of the 1975 
installed base had microprocessors, 24 percent of 1974 ship- 
ments had them. Venture Development expects that 60 
percent of shipments will have microprocessors by 1980. 


BIG SHOTS AND THE FUTURE 


For a look at who’s who in the CRT industry, where the 
industry is going in terms of market, and what’s coming as 
alternatives to CRTs, watch for Part 2 of Alphanumeric Dis- 
play Terminals in the March issue of MODERN DATA. = 


l 


There’s a DELTA display 

terminal that's right for you - 

regardless of your application 
y; 


* User-programmable and non-programmable display r 
terminals; plus associated peripherals and 
complete systems dl 

* Many keyboards and character sets to meet 
your application ” 

+ Complete applications/software assistance? 
and services 

* Nationwide customer service in 42 
locations y 

* Full documentation with every: 
terminal 

* Reliability you can count on 







Delta 
Data 
Systems 
Corporation 


Woodhaven Industrial Park 
Cornwells Heights, PA 19020 
(215) 639-9400 


DELTA DATA SYSTEMS, LTD. 
If you've got a job for a display terminal, let Us prove London 01-580-7621 

that one of ours will do that job better—and save you 
time and money, too. Call or write for literature, 
demonstration or applications assistance. 


Service in 42 locations in the 
U.S.. and 13 European countries 
and Canada 


CIRCLE NO. 25 ON INQUIRY CARD 
51 








/cover story 


BARBARA A. REYNOLDS / Associate Editor 





Honeywell's Level 


A Mini New From The Bottom Up 


Back before minis were king, a small Framingham minicom- 
puter company, Computer Controls Corp., made its first 
mini and was battling it out with Digital and Hewlett- 
Packard for the majority market share. That was 1962. Then 
in 1966, it was absorbed by a larger company, Honeywell. 
Under Honeywell came the 316 in 1969 and the 716 in 
1972. But minis were overshadowed in the sales marketing 
effort by large mainframes and in the research and develop- 
ment area by Series 60. Digital, Data General and HP took 
over the mini market and System 700 remained as it was, 
a sophisticated, large and expensive mini oriented towards 
end-users and communications.Then what began as a back- 
room operation at Honeywell a few years ago turned into 


into the bus is a series of 15x16-inch boards, each board 
having up to four plug-in “pacs” (see diagram). There’s no 
backplane wiring — etched wire connections do the job. 
There’s a processor board incorporating LSI and MSI TTL 
circuitry. There are memory boards, each taking four plug-in 
8K-word NMOS memory pacs for a total of 32K words per 
board. With the microprocessor-controlled general-purpose 
interface board, the OEM designer can customize his own 
plug-in interface. The microprocessor-based device controller 
board holds four device pacs. Each pac can operate a printer, 
diskette, CRT or card device. All four devices attached to a 
board can operate simultaneously. Cartridge disk units take 
a separate board — the microprocessor-controlled mass stor- 


age controller. Communication is handled by a board that 


Technical Analysis 


A MODERN DATA Staff Report 


From a technical viewpoint, Level 6 is a fresh start for 
Honeywell. Compatibility with earlier Honeywell minis 
is localized to the 6/06 processor and the I/O bus adapter, 
without compromising the new architecture. Naturally, 
a few influences can be detected, but it is fundamentally 
a new design. Not a revolutionary design, Level 6 takes 
standard, up-to-date technology to a high degree of 
refinement. 

Definite Pluses. Perhaps the most significant Level 6 
feature is its packaging. The product density, in capability 
per cubic inch, sets a new standard. This is due in part to 
the “major board-minor board” approach. (See illustra- 


the most all-encompassing company effort since Series 200: 
designing a whole new mini. Communications would not be 
forgotten, but the orientation would be toward high-volume 
OEM users this time. This mini would have to be small and 
cheap and fast. Enough to turn heads in a market where 
there was hardly enough room left for a head to turn. 





A WHOLE NEW MINI 


Level 6 is small and cheap and fast. The first members of 
the new Honeywell mini family are two OEM versions, the 
6/34 and 6/36, and one end-user version, the 6/06. Accord- 
ing to a Honeywell spokesperson, this is only the beginning. 
More sophisticated models are to come and all will be com- 


Bus Connectors Slides Into 


Card Cage 










SUPER BOARD. The multiline communications processor board 
can hold up to four plug-in communications “pacs,” each pac con- 
trolling up to two full-duplex synchronous or asynchronous lines. 
Also part of the board are a microprocessor and a 4K-byte RAM 
memory. 

patible with one another. Honeywell feels Level 6 will not 
only help reposition it as a leading minimaker, but give the 
company the added advantage of being the only manufac- 
turer able to supply a total distributed processing network 


with large mainframes and small minis. 


Up To Four 
Device or Line 
Adapters Attach With 
Thumbscrews 


Device or Line 
Cables Attach Here 


LEVEL 6 CONTROLLER BOARD 


tion.) Common logic for a large function or a set of func- 
tions is on a 15”x16” board. This board is adapted to 
smaller functions or specific functions by adapter boards 
(“pacs”) that attach to a standard interface atop the 
larger boards. Three examples were announced: a memory 
board to handle up to 64K bytes, which mounts up to 


HIGH-DENSITY MODULARITY 


Level 6 architecture is based on the Megabus — a fast bus 
with a throughput rate of 6 megabytes per second. Plugging 


52 MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 





might have been marketed as Super Board — the multiline 
communications processor. It holds four communications 
pacs, each supporting two synchronous/asynchronous low 
and medium-speed full-duplex lines. Synchronous and asyn- 
chronous lines can be combined on the same board. Actu- 
ally, this board looks more like a front-end processor since 
it includes its own microprocessor and 4K-byte RAM mem- 


THE ROCK BOTTOM SYSTEM 

The basic Model 6/34 consists of a central processor mounted 
in a four-slot Megabus chassis, a memory controller with 
parity, an 8K-word memory pac, a basic control panel, hard- 
ware multiply/divide, a realtime clock, and the ROM boot- 
strap loader. All for $3990 in quantity 1 or $2634 in quan- 
tity 50. Options include an additional 24K of memory, the 












Bus 
Connector 








MULTIPLE ` 
DEVICES 
_ [CONTROLLER 


CENTRAL 
PROCESSOR 


‘8K words/pac One device/pac 


MEGABUS 












MULTILINE PURPOSE MASS STORAGE 
COMMUNICATIONS DMA CONTROLLER 
, PROCESSOR INTERFACE 
















Bus 
Connector 









GENERAL 












One cartridge disk /pac 


Two lines/pac 


_MMMIIIIIMMMIMIMI<+MAAAA A TS 
LEVEL 6 SYSTEM CONFIGURATION. Mix and match up to four of these boards for the Model 6/34, up to 23 for the 6/36. But mix and 
match doesn’t stop at the board level. From one to four pacs attach to the memory board, multiple device controller, multiline communications 


processor, and mass storage controller. 


ory, making it user-programmable. According to company 
spokespersons, most components of Level 6 are bought 
from OEM suppliers so Honeywell gets the best product at 
the lowest cost. 





four 16KB boards with the memory chips; a controller 
for up to four low-speed devices, matched to specific de- 
vices by adapter boards; and acommunications processor 
for up to eight lines, with line type determined by 
adapters. This approach provides the density of ‘“‘big 
board” technology with some of the modularity only 
small boards can offer. 

This is not to imply that “daughter boards” or “‘rider 
boards” have never been used before in a mini. Of course 
they have. What we feel is new here is the use of a stand- 
ard interface between the “mother board” and the 
“daughter board,” permitting any of a group of ““daugh- 
ter boards” to occupy a position and thus yielding excel- 
lent configurability. 

The packaging is also extremely clean. All the boards 
slide in from the front; the power supply comes out with 
only two screws. Clearly, a lot of thought has been given 
to maintainability. 

Maintainability has also been considered in the design 
of the units themselves. Each processor or controller ex- 
ecutes a self-test when initialized, lighting an LED if it 
fails. Memory is also tested, by the CPU. 

The instruction set is new. It is cast in the traditional 
mold, and is oriented to multiple registers. Level 6 design- 
ers did not opt for the fully symmetric, two address in- 
struction style of the DEC PDP-11 and the TI 990. Rather, 
one operand must be in a register, which permits using 
additional bits for operation codes and addressing modes. 

The CPU has fourteen registers: seven accumulators 
and seven base (or address) registers. This, too, is a com- 
promise, and we feel it is a good one. Seven (or eight). reg- 
isters are often not enough, while a single set of fourteen 
(or fifteen or sixteen) registers would impact the instruc- 
tion set via longer register selection fields. The split 
approach has the additional advantage of making some 
types of bit-fiddling address manipulation impossible. 


SS e: 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


of Honeywell's Level 6 Minis 


multiple device controller, mass storage controller, general- 
purpose interface, multiline communications processor, 
battery backup, memory save and auto restart. Peripherals 
available include a 4K-byte diskette, 2.5M- to 10M-byte 



































The Level 6 Megabus definitely appears to be a de- 
scendant of the PDP-11 Unibus. (One difference is that 
I/O devices have their own set of addresses; they are not 
treated as memory locations.) Its evolutionary improve- 
ments include greater memory addressing range, slightly 
higher speed, and a better interrupt structure. 


Possible Minuses. Ori the debit side, the Level 6 offer- 
ing is thin. Peripherals are limited: no fast paper tape, no 
card punch, no disks larger than cartridge units, no mag- 
netic tape. The CPUs do not offer memory over 64K 
words, memory mapping or protection, or floating-point 
capability. Most of these are coming, but Level 6 sales 
will be constrained until they do. 

A similar situation holds with software. Honeywell 
offers a basic realtime executive; an operator-controlled 
program development system with an assembler, a For- 
tran compiler and a linker; and utility routines. Disk- 
based multiprogramming software, networking software, 
and other languages are missing. Again, they must be in 
the works — but they're not here yet. 

Finally, Honeywell has a history to overcome. Their 
recent minis are reliable products with good software, 
but their order entry, administrative and maintenance 
procedures have been cumbersome. For Level 6 to suc- 
ceed in the low-cost, high volume markets where Honey- 
well has not been competitive, these must all change. 
[Editor's Note: And they seem to be changing. Honey- 
well’s new sales force, reorganized order entry under 
marketing, and new maintenance procedures will go a 
long way in overcoming past problems.] 

Initial Level 6 sales will have to be in a very narrow 
market. The low end will be captured by lower-priced 
systems, such as stripped Nova 3s and TI 990s. The high 
end needs more software and peripherals than Honeywell 
has now. If these come as predicted, they will be a 
potent factor in the mini business once again. 


cartridge disks, 300- or 500-cpm card readers, and 240- to 
600-lpm line printers. Honeywell believes the Model 6/34 
is price competitive with DEC’s 11/04 and 11/05, but per- 
formance competitive with the lower-end 11/35. 

The Model 6/36 has the same central processor and fea- 
tures as the 6/34, but has 23 slots available and a maximum 
64K-word memory. Memory management is unnecessary. 
The end-user system, the 6/06, combines Level 6 hardware 
and System 700 software and has prices comparable to the 
6/34 and 6/36. 


HARDWARE FEATURES 


“Bit and byte manipulation is the name of the game and no 
one can touch us at it,” said David Booth, Honeywell’s mar- 
keting director for minicomputers and communications sub- 
systems. These are some of the features that make Honey- 
well’s Level 6 fast. The MOS memory has a 650-nanosecond 
cycle time; the Megabus has a cycle time of 300 nanosec- 
onds and a throughput rate of 6 megabytes per second. The 
word size is 16 bits, but the address width of the Megabus is 
24 bits. Microprocessors enable 64 levels of vectored inter- 
rupt. The 107 instructions work on seven address and seven 
data registers. Additional registers include a program counter 
and status, mode and indicator registers. Bit and byte manip- 
ulation takes on real meaning in the index registers, which 
do not count by any fixed unit, but adjust to the type of 
data manipulated. They count by bytes if bytes are loaded, 
by words if 16 bits are loaded. This is what Honeywell 
means when it refers to Level 6 as a “‘multiword length” 
machine. 


THE HEALTH INDUSTRY DATA 
PROCESSING SYSTEMS AND 
SERVICES MARKET 


The market for health care-oriented computer systems and 
services. reached $460 million in 1974, will top $1 billion by 
1978 and total $9.3 billion in sales for the period 1975- 
1984. Although the industry has been relatively backward 
in utilizing data processing, it is now being forced to do so 
by complex third-party billing, the government's increasing 
controls and regulations, spiralling operating costs, resist- 
ance to payment of high medical costs and an awareness of 
the significant potential of data processing. 

Frost & Sullivan has completed a 150-page analysis of the 
market for health industry computer systems and services. 
The report includes a forecast of the nature, size, oppor- 
tunities and trouble areas in health care EDP systems and 
services through 1984. The report includes the results of 
a Frost & Sullivan survey and a comparison with other 
independent survey findings. Detailed yearly sales projec- 
tions to 1984, in dollars and numbers of units, are fur- 
nished for hospitals, nursing homes, medical labs and 
physicians/dentists, for equipments, services and soft- 
ware markets. 


Price $600. Send your check or we will bill you. For free 
descriptive literature plus a detailed table of contents 
contact: 


FROST & SULLIVAN, INC. 
i=) 106 Fulton Street 

New York, New York 10038 

(212) 233-1080 


54 





DIAGNOSTICS ON A STRING 


A “shoelace” circuit ties all microprocessor-controlled 
boards together. As each board checks its Megabus connec- 
tion and performs a basic logic test, a light-emitting diode 
(LED) mounted on each board extinguishes if the test was 
successful, remains lit if there was a malfunction. The opera- 
tor can tell from LEDs on the control panel which board is 
malfunctioning. He can further locate the problem by look- 
ing at the LEDs on each pac of the board. From there it 
depends on the maintenance agreement selected: full 


=== 





LEVEL 6 PACKS A LOT IN. Five boards and a power supply slide 
into this 5-1/4” high rack-mountable drawer. 

Honeywell field engineering, coactive customer-Honeywell 
maintenance, or full customer maintenance. The responsible 
party can replace the pac by removing four screws. Spares 
are available by air or land from marketing instead of engi- 
neering (one of System 700’s problems). 


OEM SOFTWARE 


GCOS/BES1 is the name of the initial offering, but it 
should not be confused with the rest of Series 60 GCOS. 
The diskette-base GCOS/BES1 includes a stand-alone pro- 
gram development system, a stand-alone multitasking real- 
time executive, a disk-based multitasking realtime operating 
system, an 8K assembler, a 16K Fortran compiler and utili- 
ties. In other words, enough for OEM program development, 
but not enough for end-users. They can go with the 6/06, 
which uses System 700 software, or they can wait. GCOS/ 
BES2 scheduled for release later this year will include higher 
level languages, communications and executive extensions. 


UP AND RUNNING 


Yes, if you can believe it. One system has been installed and 
working since October. Production model shipments began 
in December — no more one-year lead time. And just to 
show it’s serious about this, Honeywell has recruited a dedi- 
cated technical sales force to sell to OEMs. The regular sales 
force will still sell to end-users with the help of the special 
sales force. Honeywell is convinced it is in the computer 
business to stay. Now it just has to convince the rest of the 
world. This mini should be positive proof. = 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


The author of this guide, Terry Miller, has had 15 years experience in the Federal sector work- 
ing as a computer equipment analyst and as a procurement analyst in the contracting area. 


While at the GSA, Mr. Miller authored many solicitation dacuments and reviewed RFPs 
submitted by other Federal agencies. He was the project officer for various mandatory 
requirements contract procurements including ones for tape and disk drives, plug-compatible 
memories and remote computing services. 


Mr. Miller is the President of Government Sales Consultants, Inc., a firm that offers consulting 
services and seminars to computer-related companies and Government agencies seeking help 
in ADP procurement. 


This guide includes the pertinent information on how current procurement rules and regula- 
tions are supposed to work in theory. But, more importantly, it tells you how it has worked 
and is currently working, in day-to-day practice. 


Owners of this guide will be able to advance their understanding of this market and increase 
their Government sales by attending courses and/or seminars offered by Government Sales 
Consultants, Inc. Updates to the guide will ensure current awareness of new irends for 
all readers. 


In addition to GSCls now-famous 3-day seminar overview — “ADP Procurement in the Federal 
Government”, courses on specific topics are being presented on a regular basis. The current 
course schedule now includes such topics as: 


e Pricing Strategy e The Government Contracting Team 
e Unsolicited Proposals © Negotiations 
e ADP Schedules © Introduction to Government Organization 


New courses will be added and plans are underway to have them civailable in most major cities. 


With this new guide and with this type of practical seminar program, every ADP vendor, who 
has something to offer, should obtain a fair share of the Federal ADP market. In addition, 
the Federal ADP buyer will find many useful procedures and rnuch needed information to 
conduct economic and fair ADP procurements. 


PRICE: $92.00 Volume Discounts Available Upon Request 





O Send me a copy of the 
Table of Contents 




















Please enter my order for......... copy(ies) of Federal ADP Procurement at $92.00 per copy. 
UU Payment enclosed (Save $3.00 handling and shipping charges) O Bill me 
NAME 
COMPANY 
STREET 
CITY. STATE ZIP 
55 








This Data Comm System Died 
on the drawing board. 







TO COMPUTER 
NETWORK 


lt happens all too easily 

Changing user needs or new develop- 
ments in components and software 
can render your system obsolete... 
even before it's operational. 


AUERBACH can help 

For effective planning, you need cur- 
rent information on new technological 
and managerial developments in the 
rapidly changing data communications 
field. AUERBACH gives you practical 
managerial inputs on anticipating user 
needs, allowing for technical improve- 
ments, measuring system performance 
and evaluating system changes. 


TheAUERBACH DataCommunications 
Management service (ADCM) is a con- 
tinually updated reference that puts 
the information you need right at your 
fingertips—ready to save you time 

and money. 


Never out of date 
Dozens of information-packed reports, 
organized in an easy-to-use format, 





® 






cover virtually every aspect of data 
communications management—from 
fundamentals to total system 
administration. 


Special sections help you plan for sys-. 
tem development, change and expan- 
sion. Currently available products and 
services are analyzed and evaluated 
for you. New reports—added bimonthly 
—cover new services, products and 
management techniques, keeping you 
well informed and a step ahead! 


Free 30-day trial 

Send in the coupon today, for a no risk, 
no charge, 30-day trial subscription. 
We'll send you the AUERBACH Data 
Communications Management service. 
Examine it. Use it. Let it work for you. 
If you don't agree this is the most com- 
plete data communications reference 
service available anywhere—one that 
can save you thousands of dollars 
annually—justreturnitand owe nothing. 


AUERBACH 


Publishers 


A U E R B A Ç H 6560 N. Park Drive, Pennsauken, N.J. 08109 @ 609-662-2070 


CIRCLE NO. 36 ON INOUIRY CARD 


ae 


FC 


MULT IDRO 









REMOTE 
COMMUNICATION S 





BR E E Ar | 


AUERBACH Publishers Inc. 
6560 N. Park Drive, Pennsauken, N.J. 08109 


( Yes, rush me the ADCM reference 
service for a Free 30-day, no risk 
trial, | understand that | can return it 
after 30 days and owe nothing. If I 
choose to keep it, I'll honor your 
$125 invoice for a one-year 
subscription. 


C No, just send me more information; 
I'll decide later. 





Title 





Company 





Company Address 





City State Zip 





Phone (area code) 


| Name | 






be m ama SS =m 


ADCM 1-75 








/product perspective 











BORIS BEIZER / Staff Consultant, MODERN DATA 


TANDEM COMPUTER'S NONSTOP 
"MINIPLEX” 





“We believe the growth of the “NonStop” system market has been restricted by the need for customizing each 
system — software and hardware. If this is correct, the availability of a standard solution using only production 
modules of both hardware and software can be expected to increase the market potential. In fact, we believe that, 
in time, all terminal driven, Realtime systems will include a “NonStop” systems capability. Tandem 's goal is to be 


the leader in this migration. ” 


— Samuel Wiegand, Vice Pres.-Marketing, Tandem Computers, Inc. 





Tandem Computers of Santa Clara, California, has an- 
nounced a new minicomputer product line aimed at the 
“sophisticated end-user market” — specifically, those mini 
and midi computer users for whom very high availability is 
foremost. This market is dominated by online operation 
and includes banking, process control, communications, 
hotel/motel reservations, etc. (See Fig. 1) A Tandem spokes- 
man explained to MODERN DATA what Tandem means by 
“sophisticated.” It means: 1) that the application has a 
need for automatic recovery and fail-soft operation; 2) that 
the user understands the need, the application programs, 


MARKET POTENTIAL — 1978 
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 $M 
| Sil 1 IU 








Order Entry 
Inventory 


Industrial 
Automation 


Data Entry 


Telephone Billing 
Message Switching 
Repair Service 


Funds Transfer 
Credit Checking 


Retail P.O.S. 





Railroad Control 


Fail-Safe Required 
Building Facilities 
Control 


Fig 1 — Where Tandem sees its markets through 1978. Excluded 

from these projections are military and very large systems. 
and the problems; 3) but that the user is not willing or does 
not have the resources to do the special hardware engineer- 
ing or to write the kind of operating system needed for fail- 
soft operation. 

To achieve availabilities of the order of 0.999999 (or 
one hour of downtime in a hundred years), Tandem has de- 
signed its product line as a multi-computer complex in 
which all the configuration switching gear and other hard- 
ware needed to detect and correct hardware malfunctions 
automatically has been built-in from the start. It is generally 
recognized by system architects that this is not merely a 
matter of providing a CPU-CPU channel, a watchdog timer, 
power transient interrupts, and bus switches. Careful atten- 
tion must be paid to packaging, power supply and distribu- 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 





tion, and interface logic levels. For example, it must be pos- 
sible to turn off the power in one unit without interfering 
with the operability of others, or to pull a printed circuit 
card without blowing it or some other nearby cards. These 
specialized requirements tend to pervade the entire design. 
It is decidedly not a simple matter of a few clever boxes. 





The Tandem 16 NonStopTM System consists of a minimum of two 
and a maximum of 16 processors per computer system. This particu- 
lar unit has three processors. 


EARLIER ATTEMPTS 

The hardware and software engineering of fail-soft systems 
is not new, going back to vacuum tube days and the AN/ 
FSP-7 SAGE computer, for one. Nor is Tandem the first 
computer manufacturer, maxi or mini, to offer such fea- 
tures in a product line. There has never been a significant 


57 


A E 














TANDEM 16 COMPUTER SYSTEM 


DYNABUS 















Y 






DYNABUS 
CONTROL 


CPU-1 


MEMORY 
(UP TO 512 KB) 


1/0 CHANNEL 





1/0 BUS 
4M Characters/sec. 





CONTROLLER 


Panga Sada ss O a Water =. 
| 


X BUS 10M Characters/sec. 
BUS 10M 





haracters/sec. 


DYNABUS 

CONTROL 

MEMORY 
(UP TO 512 KB) 


1/0 CHANNEL 













N 
DYNABUS 
CONTROL 

CPU-16 
MEMORY 
(UP TO 512 KB) 


1/0 CHANNEL 











CONTROLLER 





Fig. 2 — Tandem 16 Computer System 


problem in obtaining the special hardware units and hard- 
ware modifications if you were willing to pay one-time 
engineering charges. Similarly, the somewhat exotic soft- 
ware required to run such systems has been available from 
custom software houses. There are over a thousand such 
systems in operation today, ranging from simple duplex sys- 
tems built around minicomputers, to giant multicomputer 
complexes. Some of these have been working for over ten 
years without a single total outage due to hardware failures 


58 


(though we know of none which has not been knocked 
down at least once due to application software bugs). 

Most manufacturers who offer such hardware have done 
so by adapting an existing product line, with varying degrees 
of success. These manufacturers leave the end user painfully 
lonely when it comes to providing the kind of operating 
system needed to take advantage of the hardware. We sus- 
pect that the previous ambivalent attitude of computer man- 
ufacturers has not been due to lack of understanding or 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


ability, but because the segment of the market represented 
by fail-soft systems has been too small to warrant heavy in- 
vestments in product development. Furthermore, there has 
always been an OEM and/or software house in the picture 
to take responsibility for the engineering of fail-soft systems 
when the end-user could not. What this has meant to the 
potential user of a fail-soft system built around a mini is 
that one-time engineering costs and operating system soft- 
ware costs would be likely to exceed basic hardware costs. 
A TANDEM FIRST 
What makes Tandem Computers different is that it is, to 
our knowledge, the first minicomputer manufacturer to be 
totally committed to the high availability end-user market. 
This commitment is reflected not only in the design of the 
hardware, which appears to have all the necessary bells and 
whistles, but in the simultaneous offering of a multi- 
computer operating system that will, according to Tandem, 
take care of all the hairy (and they are hairy indeed) prob- 
lems of fielding software to go with the hardware. Presum- 
ably, the sophisticated end-user will be able to concentrate 
on application software and will not have to delve into the 
mysteries of fail-soft operating systems. It is, of course, too 
early to tell if Tandem's operating system will do the job. 
Only live field trials can substantiate workability claims for 
such operating systems. And there is a dismal record of 
hardware and software house offerings along this line which 
either did not work at all, or as promised, or required so 
much tailoring that they could hardly be claimed as being 
general purpose. However, Tandem seems to know what fail- 
soft is all about, both in hardware and software areas. 
As for the system itself (see Fig. 1), it features a dual 
inter-processor bus (from 2 to 16 CPUs). All device control- 
lers are dual ported and can be connected to the I/O bus of 
two different CPUs, and all the specialized considerations 
generally considered necessary for fail-soft systems appear 
to be implemented. The CPUs themselves are16-bit machines 
with a stack architecture. There is virtual memory hardware 
with more than the usual page protection. Semiconductor 
memory cycle time is 500 nanoseconds and core is 800 
nanoseconds. There is character, word, and double word 
addressing with direct, indirect, and indexing modes as well 
as hardware multiply and divide, automatic stack manage- 
ment, DMA, etc. In short, all the features we have come to 
expect at the upper end of today’s minicomputer offerings. 
Price, despite the specialized hardware (which is standard), 
is claimed to be lower by 15% to 20% than equivalent sys- 
tems bought from competitors. Tandem is quick to point 
out that since the software is part of the deal, the net cost 
to the end user should be significantly lower. The software 
package includes the operating system, utilities, code editor, 
file manager, system generator, and a high-order language 
(T/TAL) designed for transaction-oriented applications. 
According to Tandem, equipment is presently ready 
for shipping, but is undergoing extensive testing that will 
provide quality assured hardware and software by April. 
Tandem sees its primary competition as the minicomputer 
“giants,” particularly DEC, HP and Data General. Assuming 
that hardware and software are available, fully working, and 
in accordance to the planned schedule, Tandem's success 
will depend upon whether or not the end-user market for 
fail-soft systems has matured to the point where it will 
support a company devoted to it. 


Tandem Computers, Inc., is located at 
2901 Stender Way, Santa Clara, CA 95051. 


For more information, Circle No. 97 on Reader Inquiry Card 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 











l PRE-PAID 
l ORDERS ONLY 
] MODERN DATA REPRINT DEPT. 























I 

I 
| 5 Kane Industrial Drive | 
i Hudson, MA 01749 l 
| Enclosed is my check for — for copy(ies) of | 
| “Understanding SDLC” at $2.95 per copy. l 
l Send reprint to: | 
i NIME- a a aa l 
l Company l 
l Address | 
| City l 
l State l 
L 


ee | 


59 





FROM ROW CENTER 


On THE one OF DATA COMME ATIONS 








THE STAGE IS SET FOR 
INTERFAGE 76 


And you can be there —front row center —on 
all the excitement! This year, as in the past, 
INTERFACE 76 continues to be the Data 
Communications Conference and Exposition. 
Co-sponsored by DATAMATION Magazine, 
INTERFACE 76 combines thoroughly 
experienced conference management with this 
major source of editorial excellence to bring you 
the most comprehensive and productive data 
communications event ever held. 


INTERFACE 76 has, as its goal, cost effective 
management on all levels through data 
communications. That goal is reached through 
complete management programs tailored to you. 
Regardless of your level of expertise in data 
communications, you can follow a compre- 
hensive program at INTERFACE 76. Sessions 
are structured in contiguous groups to ensure 
that you receive thorough coverage of the 
subjects to meet your needs. (Attention — EDP, 
Datacomm and Communications Management 
— General and Financial Management, too.... 
Shouldn't your organization benefit from this kind 
of comprehensive coverage?) 


Co-sponsored by 


DATAMATION. 


Magazine 


INTERFACE 76-GLEARLY 
THE CRITICS CHOICE 


A team of consultants and industry editors 
working in data communications have structured 
program content to be most logical, vital and 
productive for attendees. 


Program Committee 
Ralph Berglund, Industry Consultant 


John Buckley, Pres., Telecommunications Mgmt. Corp. 


Richard L. Deal, Pres., Richard L. Deal & Assoc. 

Donald Dittberner, Pres., Dittberner Assoc., Inc. 

Dr. Dixon R. Doll, Pres., DMW Tele- 
communications Corp. 

Philip H. Dorn, Pres., Dorn Computer Consultants, Inc. 

Dr. Philip H. Enslow, Jr., Prof., Georgia Inst. of Tech. 

Phil Hirsch, Editor of Data Channels 

Richard A. Kuehn, Pres., RAK Associates 

Robert A. Lively, Pres., Lively Communications 

Einar Stefferud, Pres., Network Mgmt. Assoc. 

Bernard Strassburg, Communications Consultant & 

Former Chief, FCC Common Carrier Bureau 


And here's our INTERFACE 76 Industry 


Editors Advisory Board 
Ken Bourne, COMMUNICATIONS NEWS 
John Kirkley, DATAMATION 
Arnold Keller, INFOSYSTEMS 
Robert M. Patterson, MINICOMPUTER NEWS 
Alan Kaplan, MODERN DATA 
William R. Schulhof, THE OFFICE 
Jim Hughes, TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
Ray H. Smith, TELEPHONE ENGINEER AND MGMT. 
Leo Anderson, TELEPHONY 


HELD OVER- 
1975'S BIG HIT 


The Data Comm School is just one of our show 
stoppers. Pupils in the Data Comm School study 
fundamentals of data communications with 
emphasis on management decision-making 
rather than technical details. There's lots of new 
material designed for novices, experienced 
staffers and management from other areas who 
want an introduction to and an overview of data 
communications. 


ee 1 Š 
With over 125 speakers to hear and hundreds of 
exhibits to see, you'll be front row center on the 
world of data communications. 


APPEARING SOON IN OUR 
THEATER BY THE SEA 


INTERFACE 76 will be staged in one of the finest 
convention sites in the country —the centrally 
located Miami Beach Convention Center. For 
attendee convenience, free shuttle bus ser- 
vice between the Convention Center and all 
convention hotels will be provided by 
INTERFACE 76 conference management. 


Convention hotels include Miami Beach's most 
popular. Special conference rates range from 
$21-$47 for room accommodations. 


Complete hotel registration information will 

be furnished upon receipt of Conference 
Registration Coupon, or call our INSTANT INFO 
number below. 


Toregisterfor INTERFACE 76, simply fill out and 
mail coupon to: 

INTERFACE 76 

160 Speen Street 

Framingham, Massachusetts 01701 


Note the special “team rate” discounts when you 
register 3 or more fromthesame location of your 
organization. 

REGISTRATION FEE 3FullDays One Day 


1stand 2nd attendees Each $95 $50 
3rd and more attendees Each $50 $25 





AN EXPANDED PROGRAM 
DESIGNED IN DEPTH 


The INTERFACE 76 Conference Program is 
three full days, 41 different fact-filled sessions 
with over 125 speakers, designed to bring you 
the latest information on the world of data 
communications. 


In Methods Workshops, you'll study latest 
methods and procedures needed to plan, 
implement and maintain a data communications 
system. Emphasis will be on the latest 
networking approaches. 


Follow that up in our Product Workshops to 
thoroughly understand the role of specific 
products and services in data communications 
systems. These workshops also offer guidelines 
on equipment evaluation and selection. 


Hear in-depth analyses of today's important 
topics. INTERFACE 76 Highlight Sessions are 
forums for the issues and answers that closely 
affect the User community. 


Apply this input of information to your specific 
industry. It's sure to be included among the 14 
major areas covered in the Applications 
Sessions. Here, four-member panels of 
experienced users will employ a case study 
approach in describing their use of data 
communications. 


A complete listing of program titles and 
descriptions is contained in our brochure. 


Mail to: 


INTERFACE 76 
160 Speen Street 
Framingham, Massachusetts 01701 


State Zip 


-G Please send brochu 


) 





O My check for registration payable to DataComm Interface, 
Inc. in amount of $_ _ is enclosed. 


Name. 

Title 
Organizatio 
Address. 
City. 
Telephone( 


FOR INSTANT/INFO CALL TOLL FREE (800) 225-4620 


WITHIN MASSACHUSETTS, CALL COLLECT (617) 879-4502 






INTERFAGE 76 














y 





new products 








REEL-TO-REEL RECORDER 


The Series 9832 Asynchronous Magne- 
tic Tape Recorder uses dual random 
accessmemories torecord time-indepen- 
dent data with no loss of data during 
gap insertion. With the asynchronous 
transports, data can be both written or 


la Y 





read at any rate up to 250,000 charac- 
ters per second. Also, buffers and for- 
mat electronics are contained within 
the transport chassis, thereby eliminat- 
ing interconnecting cables. The 8.5- 
inch reel transport operates in conjunc- 
tion with dual RAMs of 512, 1024, or 
2048 bits. Input data is strobed into the 
first buffer asynchronously. When one 
buffer is filled, input data is transferred 
to the other buffer while the transport- 
formats and records the data in the first. 
OEM prices range from $5100 to 
$6600. Kennedy Co., Altadena, CA. 


Circle No. 126 on Inquiry Card 


DUAL INSTRUMENT COUPLER 


The Model 1700 Dual Instrument 
Coupler is said to couple any two in- 
struments with BCD or binary outputs 
to any recording or display device to 
create an inexpensive data acquisition 
system. It is a parallel-to-serial or 
parallel-to-parallel converter that pro- 
vides various output formats and mul- 
tiple baud rates. Output cards are avail- 
able for Teletypes, RS-232 devices, 
paper or magnetic tape recorders, and 
IBM 029 card punches. Data Works 
Instrumentation, Chatsworth, CA. 


Circle No. 129 on Inquiry Card 


MINI PRODUCTION CONTROL 


The Capac 101 Production Control 
System includes several online termi- 
nals installed throughout a plant, and a 
minicomputer. When an employee in- 
serts his badge into the badge reader 
device and manually types a prescribed 
code on the keyboard, the data is col- 
lected by the mini and used to analyze 
labor costs and utilization. Capac, Inc., 
Ridgefield, CT. 


Circle No. 128 on Inquiry Card 


62 


DUAL FLOPPY SYSTEM 


The 3190D is a complete dual floppy 
disk system using two Pertec drives 
and the Ball Model 3190 disk controller. 
With the controller logic card included 
within the chassis, no CPU I/O slot is 
required. This frees an I/O slot for ad- 
ditional memory or another peripheral 
and eliminates the need for an expan- 
sion chassis when no I/O slots are avail- 
able. Multiple chassis can be daisy- 
chained, allowing up to eight drives to 
be operated from a single controller 
installed within the first chassis. The 
chassis is program-compatible with 
Data General Nova and Nova-like 
processors. Ball Computer Products, 
Inc., Oakland, CA. 


Circle No. 141 on Inquiry Card 


MULTIMEDIA A/N PRINTER 


Model SV alphanumeric printers can 
simultaneously print different data at 
each of three independently controlled 
stations, at two lines per second, using 





a unique segment matrix character for- 
mat. Sixty-four characters (10 numer- 
als, 32 alpha and 22 symbols) are pro- 
vided. The unit accommodates roll 
papers and/or cut forms. Features in- 
clude paper rewind mechanism, auto- 
matic paper cut-off, roll paper supply 
and out-of-paper alarms. Sweda Inter- 
national, Pine Brook, NJ. 


Circle No. 138 on Inquiry Card 


PROGRAMMABLE 
COMMUNICATIONS INTERFACE 


The ASPI Series Programmable Inter- 
face for message switching and com- 
munications formatting may be used 
in a wide variety of digital interfacing 
applications, such as baud conversion, 
mode conversion, code conversion and 
data routing. The unit features a micro- 
processor as its programmable control 
unit, runs on standard 110v-60Hz line 
power, and requires no special environ- 
mental considerations. Serial inputs 
and outputs meet EIA-RS-232C stand- 
ards for industry-wide compatibility. 
Price including initial program is 
$2200. SSC Corp., Salt Lake City, UT. 


Circle No. 131 on Inquiry Card 


PORTABLE INSTRUMENTATION 
RECORDER 


The Four-O-One Portable Recorder 
provides laboratory caliber recording 
performance in rugged and remote field 
applications. The unit has up to seven 
channels on 1/2-inch tape or 14 chan- 
nels on l-inch tape. It accepts reels 
up to 10-1/2 inches. It has seven bidi- 
rectional speeds ranging from 15/16 to 
60 inches per second. Maintenance and 
repair are effected by way ofa hinged 
back panel through which all compo- 
nents and plug-in modules are acces- 
sible. Bell & Howell, Datatape Division, 
Pasadena, CA. 


Circle No. 133 on Inquiry Card 


SMALL BUSINESS SYSTEM 


The System 1300 includes a new proc- 
essor with internal processing speeds 
that average four times faster than 
those of other Qantel systems. Priced 
at $42,500, a mininally configured Sys- 
tem 1300 includes 40K bytes of mem- 
ory (8K of which are available to the 
user), 6M bytes of disk storage (3M 
bytes fixed; 3M removable), a 27-line, 
1728-character video display terminal 
and a medium-speed serial line printer. 
The processor, which is completely 
compatible with existing Qantel hard- 
ware and software product lines. 
Qantel Corp., Hayward, CA. 


Circle No. 132 on Inquiry Card 


SINGLE-BOARD CRT 


The in-477 CRT Display Memory stores 
an entire video image on a single board 
built with 4K RAMs, said to make it 
almost four times as compact as con- 
ventional display memories using 1024- 
bit shift registers. The memory loca- 
tions can be accessed both randomly 
and sequentially and at data rates up 
to almost 20 million bits per second, 
allowing the in-477 to be used in spec- 
ial image processing applications. Each 
in-477 board stores 256 kilobits of 
data in 64 n-channel silicon gate MOS 
4K RAMs. This capacity allows one 
board to operate a standard television 
display of 512 lines with 512 picture 
elements per line. To create multi-color 
and gray-scale displays, or to operate 
displays requiring greater storage capa- 
cities, boards can be used in parallel. 
Each in-477 card operates as a self- 
contained system. Expansion is simpli- 
fied by a built-in card-select control. 
Price for one in quantities of 100 is 
$1,725. Intel Memory Systems, Sunny- 
vale, CA. - 


Circle No. 140 on Inquiry Card 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


> 
= 
6 
A. 
O 
uu 
> 
E 
Š 
e) 
E 





Beginning with sensitive Power Line Disturbance Monitors, 
then high-efficiency power frequency converters, UPS, and 
power conversion systems, PPI offers a broad capability in 
power problem detection and power problem solving. 

PPI was first to offer Power Line Disturbance Monitors to 
characterize your problems on DC, 50, 60, 400, 415 and 441 Hz 
mains. PPI was first again with Transient Direction Detection to 
determine the source of your transients—and first once more 
with an 89%-efficient 400 Hz, 75 KVA frequency converter/UPS. 
Now, PPI offers advanced designs in 50 -150 KVA UPS. For the 
future—an even broader capability in Disturbance Monitors and 


power conversion systems. 


D 50-441 Hz Power Line Disturbance Monitors 
O 75 KVA Frequency Converters/UPS 


O 50 KVA UPS 
O 75 KVA UPS 
O 100 KVA UPS 
O 125 KVA UPS 
O 150 KVA UPS 


75 KVA frequency 
converter/UPS 


LA Franklin Electric 


Programmed Power Inc., 141 Jefferson Drive, Menlo Park, Ca 94025 


new products 


PDP 11/70 FLOATING 
POINT PROCESSOR 


The FP11-C processor provides up to 
17 decimal digits of accuracy and is 
said to have more than twice the speed 
of DEC’s previous floating point pro- 
essor. It has 46 hardwired instructions 
and its own set of six 64-bit floating- 
point accumulators. It is priced at 
$5900. Digital Equipment Corp., May- 
nard, MA. 


Circle No. 158 on Inquiry Card 
GRAPHICS TERMINAL 


The Conographic-9 terminal displays 
curvilinear information by conic curve 
generation rather than by x-y plotting, 
producing smoother curves with less 
data. Standard features include 17-inch 
1029-linescan video monitor with high 
screen light output; built-in zoom/pan; 
a joystick for graphics interaction, and 
a hardware graphics processor for scal- 
ing graphics and alphanumerics. The 
architecture includes a microprocessor 
and ROM memory. The basic price is 
$9750. Hughes Aircraft Co., Carlsbad, 
California. 


Circle No. 160 on Inquiry Card 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


Power Line — 
Disturbance Monitor 





CIRCLE NO. 26 ON INQUIRY CARD 


TERMINAL DISKETTE 


DataMaster II is a flexible disk I/O data 
recorder and editing system intended 
for plug compatible attachment be- 
tween ASCII printer/display terminals 
and their RS232 modems. It features 
random access to any of 2431 128- 
character records in an average of 0.3 
second. A search command can initiate 
a scan for data or file locators of up to 
128 characters in length at an average 
speed of 12 seconds per disk. The 
word processing edit system permits 
correction, insertion, addition or dele- 
tion of characters, words or lines with- 
out rearranging text. It attaches to any 
110 to 1200-bps ASCII terminal. West- 
tern Telematic Inc., Costa Mesa, CA. 


Circle No. 150 on Inquiry Card 


INTELLIGENT PRINTER 


The IPS-7 Impact Dot Matrix Printer is 
buffered and includes an Rs-232 C 
interface. Character size and the height 
and horizontal scaling of bar codes is 
flexible from line to line. The printer 
can buffer one block of ASCII data 
fromthe computer while expanding and 
printing another. All of the expansion 





(415) 323-8454 


is internal to the printer; the driving 
program only is required to specify 
with each line of data the size of the 
characters to be printed and how the 
form is to be spaced after the line is 
completely printed. Printing speeds 
range from 120 to 180 characters per 
second. Unit price is approximately 
$7000. Dataroyal, Inc., Nashua, NH. 


Circle No. 135 on Inquiry Card 


INTERFACE 
FOR INTERDATA CPUs 


The Programmable Asynchronous 
Triple-Line Adapter (PATLA) uses 
Schottky technology, microprogram- 
med interrupt logic and macro-pro- 
grammed status signals. It provides 
three RS-232C compatible asynchro- 
nous communication channels, 50 to 
9600 bps, half or full duplex in one 
half mounting slot of an Interdata 6/16, 
7/16, 7/32, or 8/32 CPU. The PATLA 
has full hardware and software compat- 
ibility with Interdata's Single Line 
Adapter, the PASLA. One PATLA re- 
places three PASLAs. RDV Engineer- 
ing, Tustin, CA. 


Circle No. 157 on Inquiry Card 


63 





new products 


INTERFACE MODULE FOR PDP-11 


The MDB-1710 General Purpose Inter- 
face Module is a PDP-11 Unibus to- 
peripheral interface with address and 





dual vector interrupt logic. Essential 
and universal Unibus logic interface 
elements are premounted and inter- 
connected, with wire-wrap facilities 
for address selection and interrupt vec- 
toring. Wire-wrap posts also make it 
possible to connect Unibus driver in- 
puts and receiver outputs for multiple- 
controller applications. Integrated cir- 
cuit devices furnished on the module 
provide logic to handle three primary 
functions: address selection, interrupt 
control, and the Unibus electrical inter- 
face. The board is priced at $250. 
MDB Systems, Orange, CA. 


Circle No. 147 on Inquiry Card 


MULTI-CHANNEL DISPLAY 
FROM SINGLE-CHANNEL SCOPE 


Converts to digital electronics usually 
find their single-channel oscilloscopes 
inadequate. The Mode 4 Quad Analog 
Amplifying Multiplexer addresses itself 
to this problem by providing an alter- 
native to the purchase of an expensive 
2- or 4-channel scope. The Mode 4 
displays up to four simultaneous analog 
and/or digital signals on any single (or 
dual) scope without modification, and 
provides individual .01x to 100x gain 
control (in decade steps) for each chan- 
nel. Signals from DC to approximately 
5 KHz are viewed in the parallel multi- 
plex mode, essentially a sampling tech- 
nique in which the individual inputs 
are multiplexed to a single output at a 
rate much higher than the frequency 





x. 


of the signals being observed. Serial 
multiplexing is normally used for 
higher frequency display. Price is $189. 
BASIX, Bethlehem, PA. 


Circle No. 146 on Inquiry Card 





MODULAR CRT 


The Modular One CRT uses a micro- 
processor and programmable ROM to 
permit modular expansion of the termi- 
nal through the addition or deletion of 
plug modules. The basic terminal pro- 





vides a 1920-character 12-inch display, 
incremental and absolute cursor posi- 
tioning, dual video intensity, 10-key 
numeric pad on a movable keyboard, 
choice of eight transmission rates up 
to 9600 bps, communication interfaces 
switchable between EIA RS-232 and 
currentloop, choice of block or blinking 
underscore cursor, and a white-on-black 
or black-on-white display presentation. 
Price in quantities of 100 is $1275. 
Hazeltine Corp., Greenlawn, NY. 


Circle No. 142 on Inquiry Card 


jcproppocessons 
and Microcomputers 


A TECHNOLOGY PROFILE 


64 


Comprised of material which appeared in the 
January and February, 1975, issues of MODERN 
DATA, this 24-page Technology Profile is the most 
thoughtful and comprehensive effort to date to 
organize and summarize the complex, confusing, 
and fast-moving world of micro systems. This 
booklet will serve, for years to come, as a primer to 
the newcomer and a review guide for the more 
experienced. 

Written by practicing experts: Scott McPhillips, 
Microcomputer Technique; Jerry Ogdin, Micro- 


computer Technique; Doug Cassell, Control Logic; 


Mike Tenner and Bill Liles, Technology Service 


Corp.; Eric Garen, /ntegrated Computer Systems; 


and Dan Bowers, MODERN DATA. 
Price: $3.95 per copy, prepaid, to MODERN DATA. 





MODERN DATA 
5 Kane Industrial Drive 
Hudson, MA 01749 


Prepaid Orders Only 


Enclosed is my check for copy(ies) of your 24-page 
Technology Profile report, ‘‘Microprocessors and Micro- 
computers” at $3.95 per copy. 


Send to: 


Name 





Company 





Address 











City 


State Zip Code 





MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 





INTELLIGENT CRTS 


The Models 310 and 320 are intelligent 
data entry terminals designed primarily 
to prepare data for small business com- 
puters. Both terminals include a CRT, 
keyboard, ECMA-compatible cassette 
recorder, and a microprocessor with 
8K bytesof ROM firmware. The Model 
310 includes one cassette recorder and 
may be equipped with an optional 3K 
bytes of RAM. It can communicate us- 
ing both binary synchronous (1200- 
4800 bps) and asynchronous (110-1200 
bps) procedures. The Model 320 in- 
cludes two cassette recorders and pro- 
vides automatic input of stored format 
programs, tape pooling, selective copy- 
ing of data from one cassette to an- 
other, storage of information for file 
search and retrieval, and automatic 
transmission and reception of data. It 
can communicate using binary synchro- 
nous procedures. The Model 310 is 
$204 per month on a 1-year lease; the 
320 is $239 per month on a 1-year 
lease. Sycor Inc., Ann Arbor, MI. 


Circle No. 143 on Inquiry Card 


1/0 BUS CONVERTER 
FOR ECLIPSE 


The RTP7410/60 I/O Bus Converter 
is contained on a single printed-circuit 
board that plugs directly into any 
unused I/O slot in the Data General 
Eclipse computer. It allows Computer 
Products’ complete RTP family of ana- 
log and digital input/output measure- 
ment and control equipment to be 
operated under Eclipse control using 
the computer's standard I/O instruc- 
tions. Up to eight RTP controllers can 
be chained to one I/O bus converter. 
Price of the RTP7410/60 including 
one I/O bus termination card is $450. 
Computer Products, Ft. Lauderdale, FL. 


Circle No. 149 on Inquiry Card 
BANKING TERMINAL 


The Megadata Banking Terminal con- 
tains 2K to 16K of PROM for program 
and fixed format storage, and 2K to 
8K of RAM for transaction entry, 
processing, queueing, and forwarding. 
The manufacturer claims the unit can 
be programmed to operate with any 
computer using any communications 
protocol. Keyboard layouts, keytop 
colors, condition indicator lights, and 
audible signals can be configured ex- 
actly to a bank’s requirements and are 
designed to simplify the operation of 
the terminal. Printers and floppies can 
be attached. Megadata Computer and 
Communications Corp., Bohemia, NY. 


Circle No. 136 on Inquiry Card 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 








MINIMIZE DOWNTIME ` 


PINPOINT SYSTEM FAILURES 
| DEBUG SOFTWARE 





DATASCOPE D601 


Universal Communications Monitor 


The Spectron Datascope is a unique time-saving, portable test 
instrument for troubleshooting and monitoring data communications 
channels. It provides both a CRT display and a magnetic tape recording 
of all line traffic at the business machine (EIA RS-232C) interface of any 
standard modem. The unit pinpoints problems in system hardware and 
software by showing exactly what was sent and received. Errors caused 
by equipment malfunctions, incorrect programs or line trouble are im- 


~ mediately visible with less time spent isolating system problems. The 


Datascope is as easy for operating personnel to use as it is for program- 
mers and engineers. 


° PROVIDES CRT DISPLAY OF EVERY DATA LINK CHARACTER, SENT 
OR RECEIVED ; 

e SIMULTANEOUS FULL DUPLEX DATA STREAM TAPE RECORDING 

e ACCEPTS ALL CODES, LINE DISCIPLINES AND SPEEDS UP TO 9600 BPS 


° SWITCH SELECTABLE ALPHANUMERIC, HEXADECIMAL, OR EBCDIC 
DISPLAY ` 


e MONITORS FULL AND HALF DUPLEX CIRCUITS 
+ PRINTED RECORD AVAILABLE ON STANDARD TELETYPE PRINTER 


+ LAMP DISPLAY OF ALL EIA INTERFACE SIGNALS 


¢ COMPLETE ELECTRICAL ISOLATION FROM MONITORED CHANNEL 
e SIMPLE, STRAIGHT FORWARD CONNECTION 


ç. 
` Y ES Products in Service 
| redadas 
ete : For Better 
Church Rd. & Roland Ave. Telecommunications 


Moorestown, N. J. 08057 
(609) 234-5700 


CIRCLE NO. 27 ON INQUIRY CARD 


65 





new products 








LSI MODEMS 


Last month’s MODERN DATA in- 
cluded a feature on LSI modems 
by Hycom's (Irvine, CA) President 
Takashi Mitsutomi that described 
how a single LSI chip can do the 
job of multiple TTL components. 
Two other major modem makers 
have recently introduced LSI 
modems. 

Paradyne Corp. (Largo, FL) LSI 
modems offer up to a 70-percent 
size reduction over conventional 
modems. Computations in the re- 
ceiver digital filter, transmitter digi- 
tal filter and adaptive channel equal- 
izer are said to require over 6 million 
multiplication/addition cycles per 
second. The LSI digital filters elimi- 


nate analog drift such that no man- 


ual adjustment is required. Data 
rates available are 9600, 7200 and 
4800 bps. 

Circle No. 153 on Inquiry Card 


Codex Corp. (Newton, MA) offers a 
series of eight LSI modems with 
point-to-point models available in 
9600, 7200 and 4800 bps. The Fast 
Poll Multipoint units provide 9600, 
7200 and 4800-bps speeds on the 
outbound master side in polled net- 
works. The 4800-bps LSI-481 is 
compatible with all other V.27 
modems. The LSI 48D model is in- 
tended for dial networks. Prices for 
the point-to-point models start at 
$4325 for 4800 bps, $6500 for 
7200 bps and $8500 for 9600 bps. 
Circle No. 161 on Inquiry Card 





DCC'S NEW MINI 


Shortly after Data General was granted 
an injunction against Digital Computer 
Control's D-116, DCC announced the 
Mod Five mini. It is priced about the 
same as the D-116, but offers these ad- 
ditional features: an enriched single- 
word instruction set with new classes 
of instructions, overlapped instruction 
fetch concurrent with the execution 
of instructions, and triple stack proc- 
essing, coupled with a vectored inter- 
rupt system. The Mod Five is available 
with 1200, 1000 or 800-nanosecond 
cycle times. Eight accumulators are 
standard. It is completely upward 
compatible with the firm’s present D- 
116, D-116H, 216, 316, 416 and 616 
minis. Existing controllers and soft- 
ware developed for the D-116 and D- 
116H will also run the Mod Five. Digi- 
tal Computer Controls, Fairfield, NJ. 


Circle No. 162 on Inquiry Card 


66 


FORMS HANDLING PRINTER 


With the Series 500D printers and 
their forms handling options, both 
ledger cards and cut form or continu- 
ous paper applications can be handled 
by changing the detachable forms 
handling mechanism. The series has 
three basic print speeds: 80, 120 and 
165 characters per second at 10,12 or 
16.5 characters per inch. All models 
feature a 5x7 matrix, elongated bold- 
face characters, a one-line buffer and 
operator-changeable forms-handling 
device. End-user prices range from 
$3530 to $5180. Centronics Data 
Computer Corp., Hudson, NH. 


Circle No. 139 on Inquiry Card 


POWER LINE MONITOR 


The Power Guard Model W115 Tran- 
sient Voltage Detector and Recorder 
guards against costly errors and com- 
puter data rework resulting from unde- 
tected high speed line transients caused 
by fluctuations in the AC line power- 


cuu ELECTRONICS 





INC. 


ing computers. Power Guard plugs into 
the same AC line as the computer. 
When a high speed transient occurs, an 
alarm sounds and the amplitude and 
duration of the pulse are logged. Price 
is $1485. Holland Electronics Inc., 
Brooklyn, NY. 


Circle No. 148 on Inquiry Card 


CRT PRINTER 


The Model H Series Printer prints 32 
characters per line in a 5x7 dot matrix 
at a speed of 40 characters per second 
with 10 or 12 characters per inch. Each 
line can be printed in either red or black, 
selectively. Transmission speeds of 110, 
150,300, 600, 1200,4800 or 9600 bps 
are switch-selectable. An internal strap 
permits selection of 7- or 8-bit charac- 
ter lengths, one or two stop bits, and 
odd or even parity. The Model H is 
compatible with Informer CRTs and 
others using RS-232 interfaces. Price 
in quantity of five is $995. Informer, 
Inc., Los Angeles, CA. 


Circle No. 156 on Inquiry Card 


PRINTER FOR SYSTEM/3 


The DAC/3 Model 750 Chaintrain 
Printer is a 132-column, 750-lpm 
printer compatible with the 600 lpm 
IBM System/3-15. It comes with a 
sound deadening cabinet, single-line 
memory, and paper slew rate of 20 
inches per second. The chaintrain 
printer uses character links that ride on 
a monorail track to ensure proper align- 
ment and print quality. Digital Associ- 
ates Corp., Stamford, CT. 


Circle No. 134 on Inquiry Card 


TAPE/DISK CONTROLLERS 


Western Peripherals’ (Anaheim, CA) 
has a single-board PE and NRZ mag- 
netic tape controller that can mix 7- 
and 9-track NRZ, PE or dual-density 
tape units in any combination up to 
eight units, and 4-6-6 pack on 7- 
track which allows the user to dump 
core memory onto tape. The con- 
troller is software-compatible with 
all Data General Nova and Eclipse 
computers, DCC-116, Keronix and 
other Data General-emulating com- 
puters. Price of the TC-120 is $3100. 
Circle No. 144 on Inquiry Card 


Northeast Services, Inc. (Walling- 
ford, CT) has introduced two disk 
controllers, one for floppies and 
one for disk packs. The floppy con- 
troller (256K to 640K bytes) fea- 
tures fully buffered read/write oper- 
ations and 278 bytes of internal 
memory. The controller automati- 
cally controls head loading and re- 
moves the head from the disk sur- 
face if no operation is taking place. 
The floppy controller costs $713 in 
small OEM quantities. The large 
storage (27.3, 54.7, or 82 Mbytes) 
disk pack controller features fully 
buffered read/write operations and 
an internal memory that holds an 
entire sector of 220 data words. It 
is priced at $1425 in small OEM 
quantities. 

Circle No. 151 on Inquiry Card 


iCom, Inc. (Canoga Park, CA) offers 
the CF360 floppy disk controller 
that accommodates from one to 
four floppy disk drives and includes 
a general-purpose mini/micro inter- 
face. The controller is fully IBM 
3740 and 3540 compatible and per- 
forms all formatting and deformatt- 
ing, track seek/verify, cyclic redun- 
dancy check generation and verifica- 
tion automatically. Price is single 
quantity is $850. 

Circle No. 152 on Inquiry Card 





MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


sennmars 
ADP 


procurement 
inthe 


federal _ 
Jovernmen 


GOVERNMENT SALES CONSULTANTS, INC. is pleased to announce the 
expanded availability of their successful seminar designed for all people engaged 
in either buying or selling ADP equipment and related software, maintenance ` 
and consulting services in the Federal Government. 


This course is available monthly in the Washington, D.C. area for a fee of $350 
including extensive handout documentation. Quantity discounts are available. 
Total attendance for the course has now topped 500 people from over 20 
agencies of the government and over 50 companies. An abbrievated outline 
is shown below. 

I. General Federal Market Overview 

II. Role of the General Services Administration 

HI. General Contracting Factors 

IV. ADP Procurement in Other Federal Agencies 

V. Pricing and Bidding Strategies 

VI. Proposal Evaluation and Contract Award 

VII. Relationships Between Different ADP Functions 

VIII. Government Funding of ADP 

IX. Policy Issues 

X. Summary and Workshop 


THE NEXT COURSES WILL BE HELD AS FOLLOWS: 
Mar 8-10 Apr 19-21 May 10-12 June 14-16 July 12-14 


Mail the coupon below for the full outline, hotel information, dates and quantity discount schedule. 





GOVERNMENT SALES CONSULTANTS, INC. 
Suite 205 

7023 Little River Turnpike 

Annandale, VA 22003 








Agency/Company 








Address 











I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
l 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
l 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
Name f 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
City, State, Zip I 
I 

I 

l 

F 

I 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 67 





new software & services 








DATA MANGEMENT FOR HP-3000 


BIS/3000 is a business-oriented man- 
agement system for the Hewlett- 
Packard 3000. It consists of a pro- 
gramming language (called PL/DB), 
the data management system, and input 
and output subsystems. Special features 
include program control statements 
that have been integrated with data 
base accessing, inverted accessing of 
files, and an error checking input sub- 
system. Data Base Management Sys- 
tems Inc., North Miami, FL. 


Circle No. 209 on Inquiry Card 


SOFTWARE LIBRARY FOR DG 


The Pelam Software Library (PSL/2) is 
a collection of subroutines used with 
Fortran IV on Data General computers. 
These routines include extensions to 
the Fortran IV language, “canned” so- 
lutions to common programming prob- 
lems, and additional system service 
routines. The routines were originally 
written to support projects such as a 
report generation compiler; an inter- 
active questionnaire composition sys- 
tem; a 24-hour online, multiterminal, 
multitasking, dedicated data entry 
system; and a mailing-list maintenance 
program. Pelam Inc., Schiller Park, IL. 


Circle No. 207 on Inquiry Card 


PRODUCTION FORTRAN 


Production Fortran (PFN) provides 
users of General Electric’s Mark III ser- 
vice with computer output identical to 
that generated by FIV, minus nones- 
sential features like line number refer- 
ences in error messages, warning mes- 
sages and subscript checks. It uses the 
same syntax as FIV. PFN is especially 
suited for use on proven, stabilized 
production-type programs currently 
running in FIV core image or object 
code. General Electric, Vienna, VA. 


Circle No. 210 on Inquiry Card 


SORT PACKAGE 


CYBERSORT is a high-speed stand- 
alone or Fortran-Callable sort program 
for CDC 6000-series users. It accumu- 
lates user specified fields, takes sub- 
totals and totals, and prints all head- 
ings and footings to allow immediate 
report generation directly from the 
program. The sort routine, in core or 
from file to file, is said to allow an 
unlimited number of sort keys and 
subtotal fields, and the record length is 
limited only by the available memory. 
Cyber Associates Inc., Pittsburgh, PA. 


Circle No. 226 on Inquiry Card 


68 


CROSS ASSEMBLERS 
FOR INTEL 


Xener Corp. (Alexandria, VA) 
makes a macro cross assembler for 
Intel models 8080,8008, 4040 and 
4004 designed for use on 16-bit 
computers. The coding format is said 
to be identical to that required by 
Intel’s cross assembler for 32-bit 
computers; thus firms which have 
been using Intel’s cross assembler 
are not required to recode existing 
programs. Additional features are 
cross reference, selective listing, ex- 
tended error messages, and forms 
control. The cross assembler is cur- 
rently being used on DEC, Data 
General and IBM computers. 

Circle No. 233 on Inquiry Card 


Industrial Programming Inc. (Green- 
vale, NY) has an assembler linking 
loader system for Intel 8080 pro- 
grams — INTALL. Currently avail- 
able for DEC, Data General and 
Interdata minicomputers, INTALL 
comprises two programs: a macro 
assembler and a linking loader. The 
assembler accepts Intel’s source pro- 
gram format and produces relocat- 
able object code. The linking loader 
forms an 8080 load module by link- 
ing together the relocatable object 
code to form separately assembled 
subprograms. The assembler gener- 
ates a cross-referenced symbol table; 
the loader generates a load module 
map. The one-time licensing fee for 
INTALL is $2000. 

Circle No. 203 on Inquiry Card 


SMALL COMPUTER DATA BASE 


Version II of DRS, a data base man- 
agement system for small computers, 
includes changes to provide support 
for 16 different record types, hier- 
archical data structures, inverted 
indices, and large data bases. Also in- 
cluded are several new commands, a 
data base analyzer, a programmer in- 
terface, expanded peripheral device 
support, improvements to the Modify 
and Delete commands, and a data base 
dump-restore utility. DRS may be 
operated in batch mode, interactively 
through the console, or on a remote 
terminal in a dedicated or timesharing 
environment. The small computer ver- 
sion is available for the CHI 2130, 
DSC Meta-4, GA 18/30 and the IBM 
1130. A.R.A.P., Princeton, NJ 


Circle No. 225 on Inquiry Card 


MycroTek Inc. (Wichita, KS) has an 
8080 cross assembler written in 
ANSI standard Fortran IV that will 
execute on 16-bit word computers 
with compilers supporting this lan- 
guage. It can also run on machines 
with word lengths greater than 16 
bits. Microcomputer programs are 
written in 8080 assembly language 
using mnemonics common to the 
processor along with special assem- 
bler instructions. The program gen- 
erates an assembled program listing 
and a hexidecimal object tape com- 
patible with Intel’s MCS-80. The 
major features of the assembler are: 
no disk access required; will run on 
an 8K machine;accepts ANSI stand- 
ard Fortran IV logical unit numbers 
for I/O devices; two-pass assembly ; 
and complete documentation. Price 
is $300. 

Circle No. 231 on Inquiry Card 


Micro Systems Software’s (Sunny- 
vale, CA) one-pass assembler runs in 
resident mode on an 8080, assem- 
bles a compatible subset of the Intel 
language and generates machine code 
directly into memory for immediate 
execution. It occupies less than 2K 
bytes of memory and can be placed 
in PROM/ROM. Execution-time fea- 
tures include a bias-address offset 
for storing machine code and three 
output print options: print object 
and source, print object only, and no 
print. A general-purpose I/O inter- 
face is included so the assembler can 
fit into most system environments. 
Circle No. 211 on Inquiry Card 





UNIVAC 1004 EMULATOR 
FOR DG MINIS 


The UN1004 program for Data General 
Nova and Eclipse computers emulates 
a Univac 1004 terminal and permits 
the user to communicate with the cen- 
tral site for remote job entry. The pro- 
gram interfaces with DG’s RTOS (Real 
Time Operating System) and RDOS 
(Real Time Disk Operating System), 
provides full operating system support 
for all standard peripherals, and can 
also be used with disk or magnetic 
tape. It operates at speeds up to 9600 
bps and requires 4K words storage. A 
one-time fee of $1500 includes relocat- 
able binaries on paper tape, source code 
on 9-track magnetic tape, and the in- 
struction manual. Gamma Technology, 
Palo Alto, CA. 


Circle No. 232 on Inquiry Card 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 





new software & services 











HIGH LEVEL PROGRAMMING 
FOR NOVA 


ASGOL is a structured programming 
language operating under RDOS or 
XDOS that allows programmers to de- 
velopsystems software usually rendered 
in assembly language. With high level 
constructs similar to ALGOL or PL/1, 
ASGOL features a stylized listing to 
replace the flow chart. MDB Systems 
Inc., Orange, CA. 


Circle No. 208 on Inquiry Card 


EFTS APPLICATIONS 


Three software systems to support 
paperless deposit and payment services 
are written in ANS Cobol and are avail- 
able in IBM OS and DOS, and Bur- 
roughs versions. The Social Security 
Deposit System provides for the auto- 
matic processing of federal recurring 
payments. The system will accept 
Social Security checks and/or Auto- 
mated Clearing House (ACH) formatted 
tapes, split deposits between DDA and 
savings, produce notification of deposit, 
and provide branch level reporting and 
stop payment capability. The Guaran- 


teed Payment System is used in con- 
nection with the Social Security De- 
posit System. This system provides 
payment guarantee options, including 
prespecified amount or percentage of 
previous transaction amount. The Re- 
formatter System fulfills the conver- 
sion requirement for companies to pro- 
vide ACH or NACHA formatted entries. 
The system is parameter driven and 
provides cross-referencing from an indi- 
vidual identification number to Route/ 
transit/bank number. The price of the 
Social Security Deposit System is 
$2000; the Guaranteed Payment Sys- 
tem is $500; and the Reformatter Sys- 
tem is $1500. Financial Industry 
Systems, Hartford, CT. 


Circle No. 205 on Inquiry Card 


DOS/OS UTILITY 


CS-COMP is a DOS/OS utility program 
which compares corresponding records 
on sequential and/or index sequential 
files and lists all differences between 
them. When two records being com- 
pared have differences, both records 
are printed, one directly below the 
other with asterisks appearing under 


the unequal positions of the records. 
Other features in this program make it 
flexible with regard to files being com- 
pared and the method of comparison. 
For O/S systems, the dataset informa- 
tion is entered via JCL. For DOS sys- 
tems, the dataset information is en- 
tered vis JCL. For DOS systems, file 
information will be on a control card. 
License fee for CS-COMP is $30.00 per 
month for a minimum of six months. 
C-S Computer Systems, Inc., New 
York, NY. 


Circle No. 227 on Inquiry Card 
F8 MACRO ASSEMBLER 


This cross assembler for the Fairchild 
F8 Microprocessor is designed to run 
on a PDP-8 computer with a minimum 
OS/8 operating system. The assembler 
will handle any size program with a 
maximum of 600 labels. Features in- 
clude: shorthand or free form input 
data, formatted list output, binaries in 
“Fair-Bug” loader format, and a simpli- 
fied instruction set. The assembler re- 
quires only 8K of memory. Logic Sys- 
tems, Santa Clara, CA. 


Circle No. 228 on Inquiry Card 


THE MMS GENERAL LEDGER... 


A feast of Flexible 
financial reporting 


Satisfy your company’s 

increasing appetite for 

accurate, on-time financial reports 

with the famous MMS GENERAL 

LEDGER. 

MMS GENERAL LEDGER has been the 
prime choice of more than 400 discriminating 


corporations around the world. They wanted Ae i 


the flexibility of catering to each and every 


report user. So they served the financial reporting software 

system with the most powerful report writer in the industry - MMS GENERAL LEDGER. 
MMS GENERAL LEDGER will please any palate — it operates 

under DOS, O/S, IMS, DL/1, IDMS, even TOTAL. IBM S/360-370, 


System/3, Honeywell, and other systems find the MMS GENERAL 


LEDGER the perfect complement. 


For the manufacturer, our new NET CHANGE MATERIAL RE- 
QUIREMENTS PLANNING System is everything from soup to nuts. 
The MMS GENERAL LEDGER is more than a software package. 
It's a banquet of financial reporting systems. To get a taste 

of the MMS GENERAL LEDGER and other fine systems from 

. and nourish your 


Software Intemational, write for our menu . 
company's growth. 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


San Francisco (408) 371-0331 


- Bon Appétit 


YUSSYIDEJBUSSAW NIONA 


Elm Square, Andover, Mass. 01810 


New York (914) 332-0040 Chicago (312) 729-7410 
Los Angeles (213) 795-4256 Toronto (416) 862-0521 


(617) 475-5040 


Philadelphia (302) 995-7101 Dallas (214) 233-5856 


CIRCLE NO. 30 ON INQUIRY CARD 





"16 NCC 


Landmarks in 
Data Processing 


Mark the place and time... New York City, June 7-10... 
for the National Computer Conference, a landmark event for 
computer professionals, applications specialists, users, 
business managers, administrators, educators, and others 
concerned with data processing. 

The 76 NCC will be your one opportunity during the 
Bicentennial Year to hear leading experts, to see and evaluate 
the latest in products and services, and to confer with col- 
leagues, customers, and industry representatives...all in one 
place at one time. 

More than 100 information-packed sessions will analyze 
the latest trends and issues affecting performance, produc- 
tivity, and profit. The program sessions will be organized into 10 
or more major areas, or “tracks,” running throughout the 
Conference and covering such topics as complex systems, 
hardware technology, software and components, system 
architecture, computer communications, management con- 
cerns, education and training, advanced applications, and 
societal issues. 

In addition, the program tracks will include more than 20 
special one-day “mini-symposia,” each consisting of four 
sessions. In advanced applications, for example, mini-symposia 
will cover medicine and health care, banking and electronic 
funds transfer, and business systems. Other symposia will 
include such key topics as government policy, control instru- 
mentation, performance measurement, standards, networking, 
privacy, legal considerations, and word processing systems. 


















76 NCC, c/o AFIPS, 210 Summit Ave., 
Montvale, N.J. 07645 


______ Yes, send me my NCC Bicentennial 

E Card. I’ve enclosed the $60 advance 
registration fee for the '76 NCC 
Conference Program and Exhibits 

E plus special preregistration benefits. 

— Please send me details about the 
Professional Development Seminars. 

g — Please continue to send me all the 
facts. 

|. — Mv company is interested in exhibit- 


ing at 76 NCC. 


70 





And there's much more. The world's largest lineup of data 
processing products and services will be displayed on three 
floors of the New York Coliseum. 

Included will be the latest offerings from more than 275 
organizations, ranging from mainframes, minicomputers, peri- 
pherals, packaged programs, and publications, to micro- 
processors, memories, terminals, systems, and services. 
Among the exhibitors will be such leading companies as Ampex, 
Control Data, Data General, The Harris Corporation, Hewlett- 
Packard, IBM, ICC/Milgo, Lear Siegler, Modular Computer 
Systems, NCR, Pertec, and Xerox. 

Conference registrants will also have the opportunity to 
attend five special Plenary Sessions featuring leading spokes- 
men from industry, the computing profession, and major 
user areas. And, for an additional fee, they will be able to choose 
among a number of in-depth Professional Development Sem- 
inars dealing with advanced techniques for cost-effective 
computer usage. 

In addition, a Pioneer Day Program will honor individuals 
from the Moore School of Electrical Engineering, University of 
Pennsylvania, who developed ENIAC—the world’s first 
electronic digital computer. All this plus a Computer Art and 
Graphics Display, a National Student Computer Fair, the 
annual Conference Reception, and many other high-interest 
events promise to make '76 NCC a landmark event for the 
entire computer industry. 

Advance full-conference registration brings you the NCC 
Bicentennial Card, providing complete access to all four days 
of the Conference program, including exhibits. Benefits in- 
clude a $15 saving over the on-site full-conference registration 
fee, advance housing information and forms, and a copy of 
the '76 NCC Proceedings. Post-conference price of the 
Proceedings alone is $50. 

Fill in and mail the coupon below for advance registration 
or to get all the facts; or contact AFIPS, 210 Summit Avenue, 
Montvale, New Jersey 07645, telephone 201/391-9810. 


"76 NCC... 


Landmarks 
in Data Processing 






Name 





Title 





Company 





Street 


City 








State Zip 





m= um mu ma m s f 


neu literature 


COMPUTER MAPPING 


An interactive approach to computer- 
based mapping, which uses a data man- 
agement system to capture, manage 
and display graphic data including re- 
lated text and numbers, is described in 
this 6-page bulletin. The Calmagraphic 
Interactive (CGI) Data Management 
System was designed specifically for 
cartographic applications. Its most 
important feature is its data hierarchy, 
which allows the user to create a unique 
tree structure for his particular data. 
This structure comprises four classes 
of data — drawing, overlay, domain 
and group — each a subdivision of the 
preceding classification. Calma Co., 
Sunnyvale, CA. 


Circle No. 262 on Inquiry Card 


HP BASIC 


This 15-page booklet describes HP 
Real-Time Basic software for HP Series 
2100 minis and Series 9600 measure- 
ment and control systems used to auto- 
mate lab experiments and calculations, 
carry out plant-wide monitoring and 
control, capture data, and test prod- 
ucts. Other topics include time and 
event scheduling, multi-terminal input/ 
output, multi-user operations, distri- 


buted systems and implementation 
and control. Hewlett-Packard, Palo 
Alto, CA. 


Circle No. 259 on Inquiry Card. 


IBM USERS’ GROUP 


COMMON, the IBM Users’ Group for 
small computer users, is described in 
this 12-page brochure. Group objec- 
tives and membership information are 
included. COMMON, Chicago, IL. 


Circle No. 251 on Inquiry Card 


WAREHOUSE CONTROL 


Automatic warehouse control systems 
based on the concepts of functional 
modularity and distributed control are 
covered in this 6-page brochure. Photo- 
graphs and diagrams illustrate the capa- 
bilities of a new line of system modules 
employing both microprocessor and 
minicomputer technologies. Users can 
expand from a basic system to one in- 
cluding both automatic and semi-auto- 
matic operation, inventory control, 
data base control, online reporting, 
and data base protection. Ann Arbor 
Computer Corp., Ann Arbor, MI. 


Circle No. 253 on Inquiry Card 


MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 


COMMUNICATIONS CATALOG 


This 4-page catalog describes Western 
Union Data Services’ entire product 
line. Included are its Video 100 CRT 
terminal; 10-, 30- and 120-character 
per second teleprinters: TWX data 
terminals; magnetic tape buffer with 
switch-selectable speeds of 10, 30, and 
120 cps; and teleprinter supplies. West- 
ern Union, Mahwah, NJ. 


Circle No. 254 on Inquiry Card 


PAPER TAPE 


This 8-page booklet shows what Scan- 
danavian design can do for paper tape. 
Described are tape readers, winders, 
handlers, and punches. GNT Automatic 
Inc., Waltham, MA. 


Circle No. 255 on Inquiry Card 


COMMUNICATIONS TEST 
INSTRUMENTS 


Analog and high-speed digital commu- 
nications test and measuring instru- 
ments are described in this 4-page bro- 
chure. The analog communications 
test sets include transmission measuring 
equipment, microwave system ana- 
lyzers, and pulse echo test sets. Tau- 
tron Inc., Billerica, MA. 


Circle No. 256 on Inquiry Card 


RETAIL MANAGEMENT 


The independent retailers’ use of com- 
puters to increase sales and profitability 
is discussed in this 16-page brochure. 
POS devices and back-office method- 
ology are described followed by pro- 
gram examples and comments regard- 
ing their use. Retail Electronic Sys- 
tems, Staten Island, NY. 


Circle No. 257 on Inquiry Card 


PROGRAMMABLE CRT LINE 


A 4-page brochure describing Ontel 
User Programmable Display Terminal 
Systems provides product specifications 
and a chart comparing the entire range 
of Ontel user-programmable CRT dis- 
play terminals. Ontel Corp., Plainview, 
New York. 


Circle No. 258 on Inquiry Card 


COMPUTER RIBBONS 


This 16-page catalog illustrates the 
various ribbons available for over 200 
machines. Sizes, prices and ribbon 
materials are described. Computer Rib- 
bon Specialists Inc., St. James, NY. 


Circle No. 252 on Inquiry Card 


DATA ACQUISITION 


This 6-page application note describes 
the Datel DAS-16-LP low power data 
acquisition system and how it is used. 
The CMOS system accepts 16 analog 
channels to 12-bit accuracy and con- 
sumes 200 milliwatts while operating. 
Circuit drawings showing connectors 
to the clock and external control sig- 
nals are included as well as a full timing 
diagram for random and sequential 
channel operation. Datel Systems Inc., 
Canton, MA. 


Circle No. 260 on Inquiry Card 


DISK UTILITY 


This 17-page publication for IBM OS 
installations outlines how reports are 
produced by the Pansophic software 
system PAN*DA, The Disk Analysis 
and Data Set Management System. Re- 
ports are by volume, user group, track 
or multiple volume. Other reports ex- 
hibit VTOC Dump, automatically 
scratched data sets, automatically com- 
pressed PDSs, and more. Pansophic 
Systems Inc., Oak Brook, IL. 


Circle No. 261 on Inquiry Card 














| 


free 
listings 


Free listings are available for 
people and companies seeking 
to sell or buy or license mini/ 
micro computer-related 
ees and/or inventions. 


All listings are given a key 
number so that the identity 
of the offerors remain 


confidential. 


Send your listing 
x 50 words) to: 


CPC Editor 
MINIMICRO SYSTEMS 
5 Kane Industrial Drive 
Hudson, MA 01749 


COMPUTER PRODUCT-LINE 
CLEARINGHOUSE is a regular feature 
of Modern Data's fortnightly newsletter, 
“MINIMICRO SYSTEMS”. 

For subscription information, write to 
address above. 





IF YOU HAVE A COMPUTER, 
LOOK AT THE COSTS 
TO FEED IT! 


Although the selection of a computer usually 
involves heavy consideration, choosing periph- 
erals is almost an afterthought. This goes on 
through the system implementation and op- 
eration — until one day the data processing 
manager realizes where his costs and accuracy 
problems are. .. IN DATA ENTRY. Yes, the 
data entry portion of monthly EDP operating 
expenses is 30% to 50%. But what about data 
entry errors, time lags, and poor productivity? 
They stick out like a sore thumb. 

Finally, when the EDP manager realizes this 
situation, he calls up the first company that 
comes to mind and chooses their equipment — 
only to find out the data entry system is more 
complicated than his computer. 

We know — because we have helped other 
users and we can help you. Our knowledge can 
be obtained for $95.00 simply by subscribing 
for one year to DATA ENTRY TODAY. DATA 
ENTRY TODAY (now over 450 pages) con- 
tains descriptions of how to design and select 
data entry systems, and describes characteristics 
of all commercially available data entry equip- 
ments (keypunch, keyboard to disc, portable 
data recorders, keyboard to tape, intelligent 
terminals, optical readers, magnetic readers, 
factory data collection, point of sale, and alpha- 
numeric display terminals). DATA ENTRY 
TODAY contains evaluations on present data 
entry systems. These analyses are not typical 
manufacturer-supplied data, but insights into 
the highlights and deficiencies of the system. 
They are backed up by a User Feedback Sec- 
tion in which data entry systems are rated by 
present users. 

Included are two semi-annual report updates 
and monthly Data Entry Awareness Report 
newsletters that keep you constantly up-to-date 
on new data entry systems and applications. /f 
you have a computer, you had better know 
what ¡t costs to feed ¡t Send your check for 
$95.00 today. New Jersey residents add 5% 
sales tax. If you prefer to be billed, send your 
purchase order. ( An additional 5% will be added 
for postage and handling.) 


Management Information Corporation 
140 Barclay Center 

Cherry Hill, New Jersey 08034 
Telephone 609-428-1020 


CIRCLE NO. 33 ON INQUIRY CARD 
72 


index te 
advertisers 


BOWERS ENGINEERING CO 


CALIFORNIA COMPUTER PRODUCTS, INC 
CENTRONICS DATA COMPUTER CORP 


DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP. 
COMPONENTS GROUP 


DONAULD INC 


EAGLE-PICHER INDUSTRIES, INC 
ELGAR CORP 


FROST & SULLIVAN, INC 


GENESIS ONE COMPUTER CORP. 
AN MAI COMPANY. 


HAZELTINE CORP. 
COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT 


HEWLETT-PACKARD 


INFOTON 

INTELLIGENT SYSTEMS CORP 
INTERFACE 76 

INTERMEDIA SYSTEMS 


MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CORP 
MICRODATA CORP 

MODERN DATA 

MODULAR COMPUTER SYSTEMS 


11, 26, 46, 55, 59, 64,71 
37, 38, 39, 40 
PETROCELLI/CHARTER 12, 13, Tab Card between Cover 3 and Page 72 


PROGRAMMED POWER INC. 
FRANKLIN ELECTRIC 


QANTEX 
DIV. OF NORTH ATLANTIC INDUSTRIES 


SOFTWARE INTERNATIONAL CORP 
SPECTRON CORP 


TELETYPE CORP 


WESTERN UNION DATA SERVICES CO 
WESTERN UNION INTERNATIONAL INC 


*In Demographic issues only 





MODERN DATA/FEBRUARY 1976 











-——— O C yT +HJ x .—. e 


15-Day Free Examination 


Please send me the book(s) checked below on a 15-day free examination. At the end of that 
time | will send payment, plus postage, or return the book(s) with no further obligation. 


pes 
4 
| 
I 


— P T 














O #1/OPERATING SYSTEMS PRINCIPLES P267/S16 95 O #14/TECHNIQUES FOR DIRECT ACCESS P206/$14.95 

O #2/RELIABLE SOFTWARE THROUGH COMPOSITE O #15/SYSTEMS ANALYSIS FOR BUSINESS DATA 
DESIGN P355/$11.95 PROCESSING, 2nd ED. P288/511.95 

O #3/STRATEGIC PLANNING OF MANAGEMENT O #16/CONCISE SURVEY OF COMPUTER METHODS NAME 
INFORMATION SYSTEMS P148/516.95 P1107/$17.50 















































| 
| zg 
x 
oo 
ck 
LL. N 
mn > u #4/COMPUTERS AND MANAGEMENT FOR D 
Y O» ¡COMPU D #17/COMPUTER INPUT DESIGN P274/$10.95 
BUSINESS P275/$13.95 O #18/COMPUTER OUTPUT DESIGN P314/$11.95 TITLE 
O On #5/DOCUMENTATION STANDARDS, 2nd ED O #19/TOP-DOWN STRUCTURED PROGRAMMING 
© m 2) P229/513.50 _ TECHNIQUES P305/514.95 
m < x #6/ACCOUNTING AND COMPUTER SYSTEMS O #20/STOP! YOU'RE KILLING THE BUSINESS 
ve P343/$13.95 P1060/$7.95 COMPANY _ 
(e) E E O #7/INTRODUCTION TO UTILITIES P342/$9.95 O #21/INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY THE HUMAN 
= < = O #8/COMPUTER AIDS TO DESIGN AND USE OF COMPUTERS P199/512.95 
= a) ARCHITECTURE P311/524.95 O #22/THE FUTURE OF THE CORPORATION ADDRESS 
} © LL N9/AUDIT AND CONTROL OF COMPUTER P1044/S8 95 = 
TT) = o SYSTEMS P251/$13.95 O #23/INTRODUCTION TO DECISION SCIENCE 
ha! Ce D) #10/COMPUTER ACCOUNTING METHODS P326/56.00 P282/$14.95 
SA wa O #11/COP REVIEW MANUAL A DATA PROCESSING — [j] #24/THE STOCK MARKET CRASH OF 1929 P211/$6.95 CITY E E = 
S (em nO HANDBOOK P225/$14 95 O #25/8ASIC PROGRAMMING WITH QUANTITATIVE 
| O a O #12/THEORETICAL ANALYSIS OF INFORMATION METHODS P350/58 00 
2 O = SYSTEMS, 4th ED. P256/S19 95 O #26/BUSINESS APPLICATIONS IN DECISION STATE zip 
Alas =. O #13/COMPUTERS: AUDITING AND CONTROL SCIENCES P210/$9.95 — = 
= © Lu LU P250/515.95 O #27/SO YOU'RE GOING TO AUTOMATE P271/$10.00 
e di T N Residents of Cal., Ill, Mass., N.J., Pa., 
= E D Payment enclosed, publisher pays shipping, handling, and postage. Nori. and Wacadallocal(esléntas 
Oo Bill my compan o Bill me z 
di Make checks payable to Petrocelli/Charter 
MD2/76 Detach and mail this post-paid card today. 





FEBRUARY 1976 (card expires May 1976) 


modern resem: 
Name E == O 
arta Company 






































==] 
< 
cc 
£ ° N Street 
x 9 = Reader inquiry Card City Sit Zip Code 
L. u 1 2 3 4 Sl 6 7 8 9 10/11 12 13 14 15| 16 17 18 19 20:21 22 23 24 25126 27 298 29 (30.31, 32 
— ð 33 34 35 36 37| 38 39 40 41 42] 43 44 45 46 47| 48 49 50 51 52| 53 54 55 56 57| 58 59 60 61 62| 63 64 
< Y 65 66 67 68 69| 70 71 72 73 74| 75 76 77 78 79| 80 81 82 83 84| 85 86 87 88 89| 90 91 92 93 94| 95 96 
= = 97 98 99 100 101|102 103 104 105 106|107 108 109 110 111|112 113 114 115 116|117 118 119 120 121|122 123 124 125 126|127 128 
Oz 129 130 131 132 133|134 135 136 137 138|139 140 141 142 143/144 145 146 147 148|149 150 151 152 153|154 155 156 157 158|159 160 
E UJ Lu 161 162 163 164 165/|166 167 168 169 170|171 172 173 174 175/176 177 178 179 180/|181 182 183 184 185|186 187 188 189 190|191 192 
=- > 193 194 195 196 197|198 199 200 201 202|203 204 205 206 207|208 209 210 211 212|213 214 215 216 217|218 219 220 221 222|223 224 
| Qu Y 225 226 227 228 229/230 231 232 233 234/235 236 237 238 239|240 241 242 243 244/245 246 247 248 248/250 251 252 253 254/255 256 
O Y 257 258 259 260 261|262 263 264 265 266|267 268 269 270 271|272 273 274 275 276/277 278 279 280 281|282 283 284 285 286|287 288 
Y < = N IMPORTANT: please fill out items 1 to 5 below. 
Y = [a E 1. MY TITLE/FUNCTION (check only one) J U Education & research 4. EMPLOYEES AT THIS LOCATION 
© A w = AD Gen'1/Corp/Technical mgmt. KO Utilities S O Under 100 UO 500 to 1,000 
2 5 > B O Systems builders LO Government TO 100 to 500 vO over 1,000 

q | Ë 5 a Z cO EDP & programming mgrs. MO Services (EDP, time-sharing, leasing, etc.) 

J z tu < N DL Consultants & educators 3. AT THIS LOCATION MY FIRM USES 5. imc F (check all that apply) 
eres 2. TYPE OF FIRM (check only one) COMPUTERS FOR (check all that apply) 2 O Peripheral Equipment i 
= ° O Lu ED Mfer (computers, peripherals, systems) NU Business data processing 3 O Data communications equip. 

H E F O Mfgr. (industrial control systems) OU Industrial contro! 4 O EDP forms, tape, disk packs, supplies 
GO Mfar (fabricated mat'ls. machinery P O Scientific/engineering problem solving 5 U Memories, circuit modules, sub-assemblies 
HE Raw mat'l processing S Military/space systems 6 O EDP services, (leasing, time-sharing, 
| Commercial enterprise RI Data Communications software, training) 
Ezra RAD TEO raya La (Pau o... ee a SS ES DT NN ee y PS eT eS Se ES ENO tma raza CEIR DE SIR SD SD OND NE umama De MADO s= maza SS TS BY SO EAN 


FEBRUARY 1976 (card expires May 1976) 


modern s 
Name = Sos Title 
Q Company = Š 


Street 
City _ State Zip Code 











Reader Inquiry Card 











1 2 a 4 5 6 7 8 9 10/14 12 13) 14 38] 16: 17 18 19 20] 24 22 23, 24 251.26 27 28 29 30314532 
33 34 35 36 37| 38 39 40 41 42| 43 44 45 46 47| 48 49 50 51 52| 53 54 55 56 57| 58 59 60 61 62| 63 64 
65 66 67 68 69| 70 71 72 73 74| 75 76 77 78 79| 80 81 82 83 84| 85 86 87 88 89] 90 91 92 93 94] 95 96 
97 98 99 100 101|102 103 104 105 106/107 108 109 110 111/112 113 114 115 116/117 118 119 120 121/122 123 124 125 126/127 128 
129 130 131 132 133|134 135 136 137 138|139 140 141 142 143|144 145 146 147 148/149 150 151 152 153/154 155 156 157 158/159 160 


ON ADVERTISEMENTS & EDITORIAL 
A A E B 


1 


N 
= 
O 
< 
LL 
| 
< 
2 
O 
= ul 161 162 163 164 165/166 167 168 169 170|171 172 173 174 175/|176 177 178 179 180/181 182 183 184 185|186 187 188 189 190|191 192 
= = 193 194 195 196 197/198 199 200 201 202/203 204 205 206 207/208 209 210 211 212/213 214 215 216 217|218 219 220 221 222/223 224 
Q 8 225 226 227 228 229/230 231 232 233 234/235 236 237 238 2391240 241 242 243 244/245 246 247 248 248/250 251 252 253 254/255 256 
Q — 257 258 259 260 261|262 263 264 265 266|267 268 269 270 271|272 273 274 275 276|277 278 279 280 281/282 283 284 285 286|287 288 
° f= ° IMPORTANT: please fill out items i to 5 below. 
3 YN am 1. MY TITLE/FUNCTION (check only one) J L] Education & research 4. EMPLOYEES AT THIS LOCATION 
Ww = AD Gen'1/Corp/Technical mgmt. KD Utilities s DuUnder 100 UNO 500 to 1,000 
`S = = B O Systems builders L O Government TO 100 to 500 vO over 1,000 
E o a CO EDP & programming mgrs. ML Services (EDP, time-sharing, leasing, etc.) 
a Lu N DO Consultants & educators 3. AT THIS LOCATION MY FIRM USES 5. | SELECT OR PURCHASE (check all that apply) 
3 res 2. TYPE OF FIRM (check only one) COMPUTERS FOR (check all that apply) Seip Sees 
I O Ë E O Mfgr (computers, peripherals, systems) NO Business data processing 3 O Data communications equip. < 
E Hasa F O Mfar. (industrial control systems) OD industrial control 4 D EDP forms, tape, disk packs, supplies = 
GO Mfgr (fabricated mat'ls. machinery PD Scientific/engineering problem solving 5 O Memories, circuit modules, sub-assemblies 
| ae Raw mat'l processing on Military/space systems 6 D EDP services, (leasing, time-sharing, 2 
i] 1 Commercial enterprise i RL Data Communications software, training) = = A 
= : = — Us si; 2 az ZZ — s dd Š ~ x F. 











MODERN DATA 
5 Kane Industrial Drive 
Hudson, MA 01749 


MODERN DATA 
P.O. Box 2528 
Clinton, lowa 52732 


READER INOUIRY PROCESSING CENTER 
MODERN DATA 

P.O. Box 2528 

Clinton, lowa 52732 


MODERN DATA 
P.O. Box 2528 
Clinton, lowa 52732 


READER INOUIRY PROCESSING CENTER 
MODERN DATA 

P.O. Box 2528 

Clinton, lowa 52732 


First Class 


Permit No. 52 
Hudson, MA 01749 


BUSINESS REPLY MAIL 
No Postage Necessary If Mailed In The United States 


POSTAGE WILL BE PAID BY 





PLACE 
POSTAGE 
HERE 











Vistar GTH 














CIRCLE NO. 34 ON INQUIRY CARD 


Infoton continues to lead the industry 
in price and performance with the 
introduction of the new Vistar/GTX. 


The GTX is a Teletype® replacement with 
an 80-character line and 24 lines of 
intormation. The same flexible Vistar 
interfaces, both ElA and current 

loop, are standard with backspacing and 
non-destructive spacing available at 

no extra cost. Delivery is now! 

(30 days ARO). Unit price is $990 

in quantities of 25. 


Also standard is Infoton's proven 
responsiveness and reliability. 


Contact us today for complete information. 


Infoton Second Avenue 
Burlington, MA 01803 (617) 272-6660 


Company owned, nationwide service 
available by contract or on demand. 

















Mini-Memory. From Dataram. 


Either way, you get 
more memory, more throughput, more performance. 


Everything but more cost. 


If you're looking for a way to get more from your 


minicomputer without putting too much more into it, 


our family of ADD-ON/ADD-IN mini-memories 


adds up to the right answer for you. 
We're Dataram Corporation, and as the only company 


dedicated exclusively to core memory products, 
we make all of our own core, sell raw core to 


the outside market, string in high volume in three offshore 
locations, supply stacks to minicomputer manufacturers, 
maintain our own extensive manufacturing capability, 

and market a complete line of systems. 


Including our new, expanded family of ADD-ON/ADD-IN 
systems that's ready to go to work for your minicomputer: 


Data General 


Nova 830 
Nova 1200 
Nova 1210 
Nova 1220 
Nova 1230 
Nova 2/4 
Nova 2/10 
Nova 3/4 
Nova 3/12 


Interdata 


Model 50 
Model 55 
Model 70 
Model 74 
7/16 
7/32 
8/32 


DEC 


PDP-8/A 
PDP-8/E 
PDP-8/F 
PDP-8/M 
PDP-11/05 
PDP-11/10 
PDP-11/15 
PDP-11/20 
PDP-11/35 
PDP-11/40 
PDP-11/45 


DCC 


116 
116E 


Varian 


620/f 
620/i 
620/L 
620/L-100 
622/i 

V-71 

V-72 

V-73 

V-74 

V-75 


Whether you're adding it on or in, Dataram will meet 
your mini-memory requirements with new, reliable 

16K single-board design that delivers the performance `: 
you want, and saves you money while doing it. 

Find out more—return this coupon at once, 

or call us at 609-799-0071. 


PRINCETON-HIGHTSTOWN ROAD 


ZIN 
gÈ DATARHAM CRANBURY, NEW JERSEY 08512 
AS kiue TEL609-799-0071 TWX:510-685-2542 





























gi —— r + 
l ' x. A 
| ld like more answers about mini-memories for my 
| minicomputer. | 
| [J Please send information. | 
| Q Please have a salesman contact me. | 
| | 
| Name | 
l | 
| Title Phone ——=-———-= | 
| | 
| Company | 
| 
| Address l 
l 
| city State Zip l 
z 


CIRCLE NO. 35 ON'INQUIRY CARD 


