95 in Canada/£2.10 in U> 
A McGraw-Hill Publication 

'■"'■■■' : : ' ' , ■■■'■'•■ : ■ ^ ■" 




Apple Computer Inc., 20525 Mariani Avenue, Cupertino, California 95014 



Vol. 1 No. 2 



For the authorized Apple dealer nearest you, call 800-538-9696 (800-662-9238 in Califoi 






Fruitful Connections. 






There are more people in more 
places making more accessories 
and peripherals for Apples than 
for any other personal computer 
in the world. 

Thanks to those people — 
in hundreds of independent 
companies— you can make the 
humblest 1978 Apple II turn tricks 
that are still on IBM's Wish List 
for 1984. 

But now we're coming out with 
our very own line of peripherals 
and accessories for Apple* Personal 
Computers. 

For two very good reasons. 

First, compatibility. We've 
created a totally kluge-free family 
of products designed to take full 
advantage of all the advantages 
built into every Apple. 

Second, service and support. 




Now the same kindly dealer who 
keeps your Apple PC in the pink 
can do the same competent job 
for your Apple hard-disk and your 
Apple daisywheel printer. 

So if you're looking to expand 
the capabilities of your Apple II 
or HI, remember: 

Now you can add Apples to 
Apples. 



Gutenberg would be proud* 

Old Faithful Silentype® has now been joined by New Faithfuls, the 
Apple Dot Matrix Printer and the Apple Letter Quality Printer. 

So now, whatever your budget and your 
needs, you can hook your Apple to a printer 
that's specifically designed to take advan- 
tage of all the features built into your 
Apple. With no compromises. 
The 7x9 Apple Dot Matrix 
Printer is redefining "correspondence 
quality" with exceptional legibility 
With 144x160 dots per square inch, it can 
also create high resolution graphics. 

The Apple Letter Quality Printer, 
which gets the words out about 33% 
faster than other daisywheel printers 
in its price range, also offers graphics 
f capabilities. See your authorized 
Apple dealer for more information and 
demonstrations. Because, unfortunately, all 
ie news fit to print simply doesn't fit. 




A joy to behold 

The new Apple Joystick II is 
the ultimate hand control device 
for the Apple II. 

Why is it such a joy to use? 

With two firing buttons, it's 
the first ambidextrous joystick - 
just as comfortable for lefties 
asrighties. 

Of course, it gives you 360° 
cursor control (not just 8-way like 
some game-oriented devices) and 
full X/Y coordinate control. 

And the Joystick II contains 
high-quality components and 
switches tested to over 1,000,000 
life cycles. 

Which makes it a thing of 
beauty And a joystick forever. 



©1983 Apple Computer Inc. 






lip the creek 
fwithout 
|l paddle? 

Or lett in space? Or down in 
the dunAons? 

Whatever your games, you'll 
be happj to know that someone 
has firtaly come out with game 
paddlefbuilt to hold up under 
blistering fire. Without giving you 
blisters! 

Apflle Hand Controller II 
game paddles were designed with 
one recent discovery in mind: 

Peoprnplaying games get 
excited aril can squeeze very, very 
hard. ■! 

So we rrapde the cases extra 
rugged. We'Jised switches tested 
to 3,000,00(Jlife cycles. We shaped 
them for hoping hands and placed 
the firing bitton on the right rear 
side for maximum comfort. 

So yoml never miss a shot. 



A storehouse of knowledge. 



If you work with so much data 
or so many programs that you find 
yourself shuffling diskettes con- 
stantly you should take a look at 
Apples ProFile™ the personal 
mass storage system for 
the Apple III Personal 
Computer. 

This Winchester-based 
5-megabyte hard disk 
can handle as much data 
as 35 floppies. Even more 
important for some, it 
can access that data 
about 10-times faster 
than a standard floppy 
drive. 

So now your Apple 
III can handle jobs once 
reserved for computers 
costing thousands 
more. 

As for quality 



and reliability, you need only 
one word of wisdom: 
Apple. 



store 




Launching pad for numeric data. 



Good tidings for crunchers of 
numerous numbers: 

Apple now offers a numeric 
keypad that's electronically and 
aesthetically compatible 
with the Apple II , 

Persona! Computer. [ 
So you can enter 
numeric data ~^ 
faster than 
ever before. 

The Apple 
Numeric Key- 
pad II has 
a standard 
calculator- 
style layout. 
Appropriate 




because unlike some other key- 
pads, it can actually function as a 
calculator. 

The four function keys to the 
left of the numeric pad should be 

' of special interest 

-•■ : to people who use 

B- *\M Jin VisiCalc? Because 
Ki J 11 ^y ^ et y° u z ip 
|| ( H around your 
! " work sheet more 
easily than ever, 
adding and 
deleting entries. 

With one 
hand tied be- 
hind your 
back. 



In The Queue 



BITE 



Volume 8, Number 7 




Check air fare* with OAG bef 
make r-eservat i on* . It's eas< 
and could save you money! 9 



Page 42 



•^ Trave I / 



64781411k 



ively dasignad 4 bidroom 
ouit. A spacious kitch»n 
ast room, large lounge &. 
~ on the ground ■floor. 

~~> threa roomy bedrooms, 
throom and shower 




Page 60 




Themes 

40 Videotex Brings the World to Your Doorstep by Rich Malloy / Essentially an 
enhancement of existing technologies, videotex will bring into your home or place of 
business a host of services and conveniences, such as shopping and banking. Videotex's 
potential is enormous, but a few problems must be worked out before it reaches the 
mass market. Our theme articles address some of these problems and look at the possibilities 
videotex presents. 

42 Videotex: Science Fiction or Reality? by Darby Miller / An overview of the fledg- 
ling videotex industry. 

60 Prestel: The Basis of an Evolving Videotex System by Graham Hudson / The 

pioneering videotex system is flexible enough to adopt anticipated technological advances. 

82 NAPLPS Standard Graphics and the Microcomputer by Leo Lax and Mark 

Olson / The authors discuss incentives for adopting the NAPLPS standard and what 
NAPLPS means for microcomputer users. 

96 Privacy and Videotex Systems by Richard M. Neustadt / The potential for abusing 
personal information is that much greater with two-way systems. 

1 04 Graphics Artistry On Line by Martin Nisenholtz / The Telidon videotex 
workshop from the National Endowment for the Arts explores a new medium for ar- 
tistic expression. 

114 Commentary: Personal Computers and Videotex by Rich Malloy / The dif- 
ferent worlds of personal computers and videotex complement each other in exciting 
ways. 

Features 

26 Build the RTC-4 Real-Time Controller by Steve Ciarcia / A 4-bit single-chip 
microcomputer from Texas Instruments comes preprogrammed for timed automatic 
control. 

1 30 The Microsoft Mouse by Chris Peters / Someone let the mouse out of the bag. 

1 47 Benchmarking the Intel 8086 and 8088 by Gregg Williams / The 8086 is faster 
than the 8088, but there's more than execution speed to consider when selecting a 
computer. 

1 66 Vlsl On's Interface Design by Dr. George Woodmansee / Design philosophy 
behind Visicorp's integrated software. 

1 86 Voice Lab, Part 1 : A System for Digital Speech Synthesis and Analysis by 

John E. Hoot / Modular routines make this speech synthesis and analysis system useful 
for application programming and experimentation. 

210 Parallel I/O Ports for H-89 Computers by Ronald LaClaustra / You can add 

64 input/output ports plus a Centronics-type printer interface to your Heath-/Zenith-89 
computer. 

266 The Touch of Color by David M. Dacus / Add a new, inexpensive keyboard 
to Radio Shack's Color Computer. 

286 BYTE West Coast: Improving the User Interface at Digital Research by Phil 
Lemmons and Barbara Robertson / Digital Research's vice-president of Commercial 
Systems Divison, Gordon Eubanks, describes three different general approaches that his 
company is taking to improve the user interface. 



Page 104 



BYTE is published monthly by McGraw-Hill, Inc., with offices at 70 Main St, Peterborough NH 03458, phone 
|603) 924-928 1 . Office hours: Mon-Thur 8:30 AM - 4:30 PM, Friday 8:30 AM - Noon, Eastern Time. Address 
subscriptions, change of address, USPS Form 3579, and fulfillment questions to BYTE Subscriptions, POB 590, 
Martinsville NJ 08836. Second class postage paid at Peterborough, NH 03458 and additional mailing offices. 
USPS Publication No. 528890 (ISSN 0360-5280] . Postage paid at Winnipeg, Manitoba. Registration number 932 1 . 
Subscriptions are $21 for one year, S38 for two years, and S55 for three years in the USA and its possessions. In 
Canada and Mexico, S23 for one year, S42 for two years, S61 for three years. S53 for one year air delivery to 



299 The 8086— An Architecture for the Future, Part 2: Instruction Set by 

Stephen A. Heywood / The 8086 lets you easily construct compact programs. 

323 User's Column: Interstellar Drives, Osborne Accessories, DEDICATE/32, and 
Death Valley by Jerry Pournelle / A medley of miscellanea from our microcomputer 
maven. 

398 The 8088 Connection by Dan Rollins / Interfacing IBM PC BASIC to machine- 
language programs. 

417 Squeezing Memory from the Apple with Pascal by Jill David / Using Apple 
Pascal's Segmentation facilities and a few other techniques, you can write bigger pro- 
grams than you might have thought possible. 

428 Control Your Environment with the Atari 400/800 by David Alan Hayes / A 

combination of hardware and software enables your computer to monitor and influence 
your surroundings. 

460 The Practical EEPROM by Louis Wheeler / For less than the price of an EPROM 
eraser, you can buy an EEPROM that doesn't need one. 

484 Add Hlgh-Level Logical Structure to Your FORTH Assembler by Victor 

Joseph Grazi / Some extensions to your FORTH assembler package can make your 
assembly-language programs more readable and easier to write. 




Reviews 



226 BUBDISK by Peter Callamaras / A bubble-memory device gives the Apple II 1 28K 
bytes of nonvolatile memory. 

232 Commodore 64 by Stan Wszola / Sprite graphics, good sound, and a S595 price 
tag make Commodore's new computer a versatile machine. 

248 The Strobe Plotting System by Jack L. Bishop / A low-cost plotter for graphs 
and charts. 

360 CP/M Plus by Mark Dahmke / This new disk operating system is faster and more 
efficient than CP/M. 

388 Quadram Corporation's MX700 by Curtis P. Feigel / This video terminal lets 
you view the equivalent of two typewritten pages, side by side, on a single screen. 

470 Alcor Pascal and Advanced Development Package by Rowland Archer 
Jr. / This package runs on the TRS-80 Models I and III and under CP/M. 



Nucleus 



4 


Editorial. A Statement of Purpose 


498 


Ask BYTE 


7 


MICROBYTES 


503 


Books Received 


10 


Letters 


505 


Software Received 


356 


BYTE Game Contest #2: The Winners 


510 


Event Queue 


440 


Programming Quickies: Redefining the 


518 


What's New? 


Apple Keyboard 


573 


Unclassified Ads 


450 


Book Review: The Handbook of Artificial 


574 


BOMB, BOMB Results 


Intelligence, Volume 1 


575 


Reader Service 


494 


Clubs and Newsletters 







Cover Painting by Robert Tinney 



Europe. 17,100 yen for one year surface delivery to Japan. S37 surface delivery elsewhere. Air delivery to 
selected areas at additional rates upon request. Single copy price is S3. 50 in the USA and its possessions. $3.95 in 
Canada and Mexico, S4.50 in Europe, and S5.00 elsewhere Foreign subscriptions and sales should be remitted in 
United States funds drawn on a U.S. bank. Printed in United States of America. 

Subscription questions or problems should be addressed to: 
BYTE Subscriber Service, P.O. Box 328, Hancock, NH 03449 



Page 114 




Page 26 




Page 2 1 




m 



Editor In Chief 

Lawrence J. Curran 
Managing Editor 

Pamela A. Clark 
Senior Edito r 

Gregg Williams 

Technical Editors 

Richard S. Shuford, Curtis P. Feigel, 

Arthur A. Little, Stanley Wszola, 

Richard Malloy. Bruce Roberts; 

Philip Lemmons, Barbara Robertson, West 

Coast Editors; Steve Garcia, Mark Dahmke, 

Consulting Editors; Jon Swanson, Drafting 

Editor 

Copy Editors 

Beverly Cronin, Chief; 

Faith Hanson, Warren Williamson, Anthony J. 

Lockwood, Hilary Selby Polk, Elizabeth Kepner. 

Nancy Hayes,; Margaret Cook. Junior Copy 

Editor 

Assistants 

Faith Kluntz, Beverly Jackson, Lisa Jo Steiner 

Production 

David R. Anderson, Assoc. Director; 
Jan Muller, Virginia Reardon, Michael J. 
Lonsky; Sherry McCarthy, Chief Typographer; 
Debi Fredericks, Donna Sweeney, Valerie Horn 

Advertising 

J. Peter Huestis, Sales Manager 
Deborah Porter. Supervisor; 
Marion Carlson. Rob Hannings, Cathy A. R. 
Drew, Lisa Wozmak, Jeanne Cilley, Jeanna 
Reenstierna; Patricia Akerley, Reader Service 
Coordinator; Wai Chiu Li, Advertising/ 
Production Coordinator; Linda J. Sweeney 

Circulation 

Gregory Spitzfaden, Manager; 

Andrew Jackson, Asst. Manager; 

Agnes E. Perry, Barbara Varnum, Louise 

Menegus, Jennifer Price, Mary Emerson; 

James Bingham, Dealer Sales, Deborah J. 

Cadwell, Asst; Linda Ryan 

Marketing Communications 

Horace T. Howland, Director; 

Vicki Reynolds, Coordinator; 

Timothy W. Taussig, Graphic Arts Manager; 

Michele P. Verville, Research Manager 

Business Manager 

Daniel Rodrigues 

Controller's Office 

Kenneth A. King, Asst. Controller; 
Mary E. Fluhr, Acct. & D/P Mgr.; Karen 
Burgess, Linda Fluhr, Vicki Bennett, 
Vern Rockwell, Lyda Clark, Janet Pritchard, 
JoAnn Walter 

Traffic 

N. Scott Gagnon, Manager; 
Scott Jackson, Brian Higgins 

Receptionist 

Jeanann Waters 
Personnel/Office Manager 

Cheryl A. Hurd 

Publisher 

Gene W. Simpson; 
John E. Hayes, 

Associate Publisher/Production Director; 
Doris R. Gamble, Publisher's Assistant 

Officers of McGraw-Hill Publications Com- 
pany: John G. Wrede, President; Executive Vice 
President: Paul F. McPherson; Senior Vice 
President-Editorial: Ralph R. Schulz; Vice 
Presidents: Kemp Anderson, Business Systems 
Development; Shel F. Asen, Manufacturing; 
Harry L. Brown. Special Markets; James E. 
Hackett, Controller; Eric B. Herr. Planning and 
Development; H. John Sweger, Jr., Marketing. 

Officers of the Corporation: Harold W. 
McGraw Jr., Chairman; Joseph L. Dionne, Presi- 
dent and Chief Executive Officer; Robert N. 
Landes, Senior Vice President and Secretary; 
Ralph J. Webb, Treasurer. 

4 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Editorial 



A Statement 
of Purpose 



Lawrence J. Curran, Editor in Chief 



BYTE's growth over the past seven years has paralleled the microcomputer's 
swift rise to prominence in the broad-based computer world. The foresight of 
the magazine's founders, who recognized that microcomputer pioneers wanted 
detailed technical information about hardware and software, enabled the 
magazine to establish itself as an authoritative voice in the personal computer 
arena. Today we are still committed to communicating detailed and technical 
information. 

As the needs of the readers guided BYTE's founders, so do they guide us as 
we write and edit articles for a sophisticated audience that we believe com- 
prises three principal segments: professionals in fields such as law, medicine, 
accounting, and business management who rely on computers as personal 
tools in their work; scientists and engineers in the computer industry who 
regard computers as essential development aids on the job; and those who use 
personal computers in nonvocational pursuits. We'll call those in the latter 
category hobbyists, although that term is subject to careful reexamination 
today. 

BYTE's purpose will be to serve the technical information needs of that au- 
dience as it continues to grapple with myriad equipment and software choices. 
We intend to do that with a greater sense of urgency than BYTE has ever had. 
Some of the current speculation about BYTE suggests that it will become a 
news magazine. We do intend to offer departments in the magazine that treat 
late developments of interest to our audience. We introduced one of those last 
month. Called MICROBYTES (see page 7), it highlights industry events that 
will be treated in greater detail in subsequent issues. Be assured, however, that 
this new department, or others whose purpose is to present timely interpreta- 
tion of industry events for computer users, will not tempt us to soften the 
detailed technical analysis of new products, technologies, and developments in 
computer science that BYTE has traditionally presented in its feature-length 
articles. 

We intend to hire more editors and writers to gather and interpret informa- 
tion and to solicit technical articles from authorities in various disciplines 
within the microcomputer industry. We intend to bring you that information 
more quickly than ever before. We believe that adding some timeliness and 
urgency to BYTE's traditionally strong technical orientation will not make 
BYTE a news magazine. We have no intentions of diluting the magazine's 
technical content. If anything, we're committed to enriching that content 
through our own resources and those of McGraw-Hill Inc., the most highly 
respected publisher of technical information in the world. ■ 



How to buy a computer 
by the numbers. 




IntroducingtheCromemcoC-lO Per- 
sonal Computer. Only $1785, including 
software, and you get more profes- 
sional features and performance for the 
price than with any other personal 
computer on the market. We've got the 
numbers to prove it. 

The C-10 starts with a high-resolu- 
tion 12" CRT that displays 25 lines with 
a full 80 characters on each line. Inside 
is a high-speed Z-80A microprocessor 
and 64K bytes of on-board memory. 
Then there's a detached, easy-to-use 
keyboard and a 5V«" disk drive with an 
exceptionally large 390K capacity. 
That's the C-10, and you won't find 
another ready-to-use personal com- 
puter that offers you more. 

But hardware can't work alone. 
That's why every C-10 includes software 
—word processing, financial spread 
sheet, investment planning and BASIC. 
JHard-working, CP/M "-based software 
at meets your everyday needs. Soft- 
ware that could cost over $1000 some- 



where else. FREE with the C-10. There's 
really nothing else to buy. 

But the C-10's numbers tell only 
part of the story. What they don't say 
is that Cromemco is already known 
for some of the most reliable 
business and scientific 
computers in the industry. 
And now for the first 
time, this technology 
is available in a 
personal computer. 

One last number. 
Call 800 538-8157x929 
for the name of your 
nearest Cromemco 
dealer, or to request 
literature. In California 
call 800 672-3470 x929. Or write 
Cromemco, Inc., 280 Bernardo 
Avenue, P.O. Box 7400, Mountain 
View, CA 94039. In Europe, write 
Cromemco A/S, Vesterbrogade 1C, 
1620 Copenhagen, Denmark. 

CP/M R is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 
All Cromemco products are serviced by TRW. 




Cromemco 

Tomorrow's computers today 

Circle 117 on inquiry card. 



&>*** 



V\ 






*=- 



qp W0^L*sr~ ,/wt 



c^ 






ffli- 





,150 MILES- 



jaoa 



"INKS 



«T*QH 



>fti 









is 



*«n* 



'» i — hi i 




Add Multi- 



to Your S- 100 
or Multibus* 



The system builder's best choice 
for color graphics is a CS5000 
color system from SCION. Its basic 
component is MicroAngelo , the 
single board graphics display 
computer that has revolutionized 
monochrome display capability 
with low cost 512x480 pixel 
graphics resolution and 40 line 
by 85 character text capacity. 
When MicroAngelo boards are combined, they create 
high resolution color graphics that have a unique ad- 
vantage. The displayed image is a combination of 
transparencies. So you can add, modify or delete 
images by transparency rather than as an entire image. 

SCION'S Series CS5000 builds an image with up to 8 bit 
planes, each generated by a MicroAngelo board. You 
select the assignment of those bit planes to transpar- 
encies. Each transparency can display 2 n -1 colors where 
n is the number of bit planes it uses ... 2 bit planes would 
make a three color transparency, 8 bit planes would 
make a 255 color transparency. Once each transparency 
has been defined, your host can work with it inde- 
pendently, generating and modifying its graphics and 
text without interacting with the others. The indepen- 
dent transparencies are combined by the Color Mixer 
board which also assigns one of 16.8 million possible 
colors to each color of each transparency. 



-* — » 



tor . 
V h 




Your computer talks to the SCION 
Color System in SCREENWARE™, 
SCION'S high level display firm- 
ware language. SCREENWARE 
commands are used by the com- 
puter in each MicroAngelo bit 
plane to generate graphics and 
text primitives. User interface is 
made simple with prompted sys- 
tem set-up using SCION'S ColorPak. 

MicroAngelo based color graphics systems are easy to 
use. Just plug the boards into your Multibus or S-100 
host. Or use the freestanding work station configuration 
with its RS-232 interface. In each case, you get high reso- 
lution color graphics for such a low price you can't 
afford to design your own. 

Think SCION for your graphics display needs. 
Think MicroAngelo. Call us at (703) 476-6100. 

System shown is a Model CS5050S. 
*A trademark of Intel Corp. 



if the image is important. 

12310 Pinecrest Rd./Reston, VA 22091 
(703)476-6100 TWX: 710-833-0684 



For S-100 circle 501 on inquiry card, For Multibus circle 502 on inquiry card. 



MICROBYTES 



Staff -written highlights of microcomputer-related developments from the National Computer Conference. 






NEW SYSTEMS ABOUND AT THE NATIONAL COMPUTER CONFERENCE 

Two makers of minis and mainframes displayed 1 6-bit microcomputers at the National Computer 
Conference. Honeywell's Microsystem 6/10 uses a proprietary 16-bit microprocessor but features a 
personal computing option that includes an 8086 processor and both MS-DOS and CP/M-86. A 
complete system with 512K bytes of memory, two 650K-byte disk drives, two serial ports, and the 
8086 processor costs $6370. Configurations for NCR's Decision Mate V microcomputer range from an 
8-bit processor with a monochrome display that sells for $2650 to a 1 6-bit processor with an RGB 
color monitor for about $3600. NCR is courting local computer outlet chains to distribute the new 
machines. 

Sanyo introduced the MBC 550, an 8088-based personal computer that sells for $995 when 
equipped with 1 28K bytes of RAM, a 1 60K-byte floppy-disk drive, printer port, and word-processing 
and spreadsheet software. A color monitor is available for $495. 

The M68 personal computer from Sord Computer of America, New York, NY, features two micro- 
processors: a 10-MHz 68000 and a 4-MHz Z80A. The system has two 5%-inch, 1.2-megabyte floppy- 
disk drives, two RS-232C ports and one parallel printer port, and 256K bytes of RAM. As an 8-bit 
machine, the M68 can run CP/M software. With a color monitor and Sord's PIPS III spreadsheet/file 
manager software, the M68 will sell for $4895. 

Visual Technology Inc., Tewksbury, MA, demonstrated the Visual 1050 personal computer. Listing 
for $2695, the system has both Z80A and 6502 processors, 800K bytes of disk storage, bit-mapped 
graphics, serial and parallel I/O, and applications programs. 

Mitsubishi's 816 distributed resource system supports multiple users in a 1 -megabit network 
configuration. The network nodes can have up to 768K bytes of RAM, local as well as shared mass 
storage, and optional 800 by 500 graphics resolution. The operating system is an extended version of 
MP/M-86. 

Mad Computer Inc., Santa Clara, CA, maker of the MAD-1 , a new machine based on the 801 86, 
announced that it will offer a $400 software package that will include MS-DOS 2.0, the Multiplan 
spreadsheet program, the low-cost Wordvision word processor, and GW-BASIC. CP/M-86 and Peachtree 
Software's integrated accounting packages will be available as options. MAD-1 will sell for between 
$4000 and $6000. 

Digilog Business Systems' entry-level business computer is capable of being expanded to five 
processors and 1 6 users. Based on the Intel 801 86, the DBS 1 6 contains two disk drives, 256K to 
51 2K bytes of RAM, and interface capacity for up to four workstations running CP/M-86 and MP/M-86. 
To add more than four workstations, Digilog offers an expansion chassis with up to four slave 801 86 
processors. The DBS 1 6 is priced at $3495; individual workstations start at $1095. 

NEC announced significant price reductions for its Advanced Personal Computer, dropping prices on 
many options by as much as 40 percent. The price of the 1 0-megabyte hard disk, however, came down 
only $100, to $2698. New options include an 8087 board and the family of Digital Research 
languages. 






THREE COMPANIES INTRODUCE PORTABLE COMPUTERS 

Televideo displayed the Teletote I, a 64K-byte, Z80A portable machine with one double-sided double- 
density disk drive, two serial-communication ports, a mouse connector, and a 9-inch green-phosphor 
video screen. The machine is bundled with CP/M and word-processing, spreadsheet, and graphics 
software for $1499. 

Columbia Data Products introduced the Columbia VP, an IBM-compatible portable. In a 30-pound box, 
this machine offers as much as 256K bytes of RAM and dual half-height 320K-byte floppy-disk drives. 
Bundled with applications from Perfect Software, the machine will retail for $2995. 

Universal Data Inc., Clarkston, Ml, is offering a 12-pound portable computer that can run for two days 
on battery power. The UDI-500 has dual microfloppy disk drives, an 8-bit processor running CP/M, and 
word-processing, spreadsheet, and BASIC software. The system sells for less than $4000. 

Otrona announced Attache S, a single-drive system that sells for $2695, and dropped the price of its 
Attache portable computer by $1000, to $2995. Both systems come with CP/M and five applications 
software packages. 

July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 7 



MICRO BYTES. 



STRIPPED-DOWN $495 COMPUTER IS IBM PC COMPATIBLE 

Farrady Electronics, Palo Alto, CA, is shipping the FE Model 64, a single-board computer whose board 
and software are compatible with the IBM Personal Computer; the unit is $249 in OEM quantities and 
$495 in single quantities. The board contains an Intel 8088 processor, five expansion slots (four more 
slots can be added), two serial ports, one parallel port, and 64K bytes of memory (expandable to 256K). 
The user must provide power supply, keyboard, disk drive, and disk and video boards to complete the 
system. 

FUJITSU DISPLAYS ENHANCED WORDSTAR FOR MICRO IBS 

Fujitsu is offering an enhanced version of the popular word-processing program Wordstar with its new 
dual-processor microcomputer, the Fujitsu Micro 16s (see June, p. 1 50). This version of Wordstar 
features menus in color, user-definable function keys, and multitasking under Concurrent CP/M. The 
Micro 1 6s, with 8086 and Z80 processors, two floppy-disk drives, an RGB monitor, CP/M-86, 
Wordstar, and Supercalc, will sell for about $3995. 

WESTERN ELECTRIC AND MICROSOFT ANNOUNCE NEW VERSIONS OF UNIX AND XENIX 

The Western Electric division of AT&T announced that its new version of the Unix operating system, 
called System Five, will work with several powerful microprocessors, including Intel's 80286, 
Motorola's 68000, and National Semiconductor's 16032. Microsoft, which sells Xenix (a business- 
oriented version of Unix) and which is the largest licensee of Unix, responded by announcing that the 
company will incorporate Unix System Five's new enhancements into Xenix as soon as possible. 
Microsoft's version 3 of Xenix will be available soon for the Altos 586 and by November for the IBM 
PC. Because the entire Xenix package with all of its utility programs takes up about 8 megabytes, 
Microsoft has divided the system into modules. A single-user module will sell for $395. A multiuser 
module costs an additional $695. Two other modules can be added on top of the multiuser module: a 
system-development module for advanced programming work ($495) and a module for advanced text 
processing and typesetting ($395). 

CP/M LICENSES COVER HEWLETT-PACKARD, XEROX, AND UDI MACHINES 

Digital Research Inc., Pacific Grove, CA, used NCC to announce licenses with three microcomputer 
manufacturers for various versions of the CP/M operating system. One of the licensing agreements 
makes CP/M-68K available with Hewlett-Packard's HP Series 200 personal computers. CP/M-68K is a 
1 6-bit version of CP/M that has been rewritten to take advantage of the power of the Motorola 68000, 
the 16/32-bit microprocessor used in all HP Series 200 computers. Digital Research views this contract 
as important because it's one of the first high-volume distribution agreements for CP/M-68K, which 
provides a bridge for transporting application software between Unix and CP/M systems. 

Another licensing agreement enables Xerox Corp. to use CP/M and CP/M-86 on Xerox's 1 6/8 
professional computer, which was introduced in early May. The 16/8 has both 8- and 16-bit 
microprocessors, each with separate memory, and the two versions of CP/M will allow users to perform 
separate operations simultaneously. The last of the Digital Research licensing agreements is with 
Universal Data Inc., Clarkston, Ml, and provides CP/M for the UDI-500 8-bit portable computer, which 
was also announced at NCC. 

NETWORKING AND WINDOWS FOR THE IBM PC 

3Com Corporation, Xerox, and Visicorp have embarked on a joint project that will allow IBM PCs that 
are interconnected via 3Com's Ethernet interface and running Visi On to exchange electronic mail and to 
access Xerox laser printers and file servers. Xerox will design the print/filing/mailing module, and Visi- 
corp and 3Com will market it. In addition to allowing electronic mail with Visi On-based applications, 
this product will enable IBM PCs in the office to be used with other Ethernet-based office equipment. In 
a related announcement, Xerox pledged that it would work closely with Visicorp to develop Visi On for 
Xerox's personal computers. 

In yet another network offering, Davong Systems introduced Multilink, which enables up to 255 IBM 
PC or XT users to share hard-disk resources. Using a data-transfer rate of 2.5 megabits per second, this 
network is based on ARCNET levels 1 and 2. The network interface consists of a network transceiver, a 
local-network controller, a data buffer, a host interface, and ROM. The interface card for each node is 
$595 and requires 128K bytes per node. The networking software sells for $500. The maximum 

Continued on page 296 
8 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc Circle 316 on Inquiry card. — ► 



PEFMM DATA 



"ityand "Didb "Dicve 



r^ora Zaxllh, 



IE • IBM-PC • APPLE II • TRS-80 • fl 



Percom Data Corporation has one hard disk drive system for just about ALL personal computers 

. . . including of course . . . IBM "-PC, APPLE" II, and TRS-80". Percom Data's innovations 

with 5 1 A" Winchester technology mean that for most personal computers . . . 

having a reliable hard disk system is as easy as hooking up a cable. 

A Percom Data PHD"" will interface with your present system ... and your future system . . . 

so if you do change computers, you can still keep your most important investment . . . 

your Percom Data Hard Disk Drive. 

Because Percom Data helped create the industry standards of today . . . new designs in software 

and hardware will make your selection of a Percom Data Hard Disk Drive pay off 

tomorrow through system compatibility. 

A Percom Data PHD works to capacity because we take the time to correctly develop interface 

software to your computer which leaves no performance holes for you to fall into. 

Percom Data knows software functionality is the key to hardware performance. 

Today, Percom Data PHD supports a variety of software to match your computer: 

IBM -PC, PC DOS 1.1 OR 1.0 

CP/M-86 ", CONCURRENT CP/M-86 

APPLE", DOS 3.3, CP/M" 

TRS-80 MODELS III & I, DOPLUS, LDOS 

IMAGINE . . . Percom Data Winchester 5 1 /." technology ... for today's computers . 

and tomorrow's. 

To receive an informational booklet describing Percom Hard Disk Systems, or to determine if we 

have a system for your computer call our 

Hard-Line Hot-Line at 1-800-527-1222. 

We will also give you the name of a nearby authorized Percom Data Dealer. 

Dealer inquiries are welcome. 



PEFQCM L1ATAI 



CORPORA 



Expanding Your Peripheral Vision 



DRIVES 



NETWORKS 



SOFTWARE 



(214) 340-7081 • 1-800-527-1222 • TELEX: 73-0401 (PERCOM) 



IBM is a registered trademark ol International Business Machines APPLF is a registered trademark of Apple Compr 
TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Tandy Radio Shack Corp, PHD is a registered trademark of Perco 
COPYRIGHT tqsn PFRGOM DATA CORPORATION 



Circle 141 on inquiry card. 






MILESTONE® 

WHEN TIME IS MONEY 




As a project manager, you know 
the value of meticulous plan- 
ning. Oversights and miscalcu- 
lations can cost you crucial 
time and money. 

Milestone is a project manage- 
ment and time scheduling pro- 
gram. It is a powerful "critical 
path" program for planning and 
analyzing virtually any project, 
from a cost estimate for a con- 
struction project to a schedule 
for installing a computer sys- 
tem. The applications are unlim- 
ited. 

Milestone uses PERT, Perfor- 
mance Evaluation and Review 
Technique, and CPM, Critical 
Path Method, to plan a project, 
yet Milestone is one of the easi- 
est software packages to use. 

The Milestone usercan change 
a variable and instantly Mile- 
stone will display the effect on 
the entire project. For instance, 
the estimated completion date 
of a particulartime-crucial task 
may be changed. All schedul- 
ing, manpower costs and asso- 
ciated reports will be re-tabu- 
lated. 

TIME IS MONEY. SAVE BOTH 
WITH MILESTONE. 



The price is $295 CP/M<» and CP/M-86'" ver- 
sions require 64K and 128K RAM respec- 
tively. Manual alone is $30. 

For more information see your local compu- 
ter dealer or contact Digital Marketing 
directly. 



DIGITAL /MARKETING 

DIGITA /VWRKETING'" 




DIGITAL MARKETING CORPORATION 
(800) 826-2222 

2363 BOULEVARD CIRCLE • WALNUT CREEK . CA 94595 
(415) 947-1000 • TELEX 17-1852 (DlGMKTG WNCK) 



Milestone is a registered trademark of Organic 

Software 

CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research, 

Inc 

CP/M-86 is a trademark of Digital Research. Inc. 



Letters 



Sounding Off for the PC 

I am one of those quiet, ordinary com- 
puter professionals who buys BYTE every 
month. I also happen to be one of more 
than 200,000 IBM Personal Computer 
owners. I understand that you can't ad- 
dress every type of system every month or 
even every other month, so I don't get too 
upset at the lack of coverage of the IBM 
PC. 

However, last month I read Gregg 
Williams' "The Lisa Computer System" 
(February, p. 33), which attempted to 
show how much better a machine it is 
than the PC. I cannot hold my tongue any 
longer. Just to point out the bias, you 
mentioned that when the two machines 
were comparably equipped, the PC very 
quickly ran out of slots. While this is true 
if you use all IBM products, it is certainly 
not true if you use multifunction cards 
such as Quadram or AST. Most of the 
people I know have done exactly that and 
have been quite pleased. 

So what happens? IBM announces the 
PC -XT, a host of interconnects, a new 
operating system, etc. What does BYTE 
print? Zero! Nothing! An article on the 
new Intel chips is as close as you came to 
printing anything related to the PC. I 
guess I must be buying the wrong maga- 
zine. I dare you to print this letter and ask 
how many other readers out there feel the 
same way. 

I'm not asking for top billing for the 
PC, just close to equal billing with the 
others. The Apples, S-lOOs, and others are 
all good machines, but so is the PC. I'd 
like to see a few comparisons done fairly. 

William T. Manley 
8345 Attica Ct. 
Jonesboro, GA 30236 

/ hope you don't have the wrong im- 
pression about our interest in the IBM 
Personal Computer. By unhappy coin- 
cidence, your letter came just before our 
May issue, which contained a full-page 
announcement of the IBM PC-XT (p. 
520), a construction article on the IBM PC 
keyboard (p. 402), and a review of four 
IBM PC word processors (p. 176). We 
plan to have other articles on the IBM PC, 
including a two-part article on interfacing 
the IBM PC to the Intel 8087 floating- 
point chip (the latter written by Tim Field, 
who did the excellent "A Peek into the 
IBM PC" in March). 



10 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Regarding the Lisa article I wrote in 
February, I do not agree that my treat- 
ment of comparably equipped Lisa and 
IBM PC machines constitutes a bias on 
my part. I was aware that third-party 
multifunction boards could make IBM 
look better in that comparison, but the 
point was that the product as seen by IBM 
(i.e., using IBM products only) does run 
out of expansion room. I will change that 
opinion only when IBM introduces a 
multifunction board. . . .G.W. 



Portables Banned 
from Aircraft 

The recent boom in portable computers 
has spawned a host of articles on the sub- 
ject in recent months. Almost without 
fail, such letters refer to the fact that to- 
day's machines are portable in name only 
because they have either nonexistent or 
inadequate battery capability. These 
observations are most frequently followed 
by the comment that even those units 
with batteries lack the staying power for a 
coast-to-coast flight. 

As both a manufacturer of computer 
systems and a pilot, I would like to call 
your attention to the fact that the opera- 
tion of portable electronic devices aboard 
a commercial aircraft or an aircraft flying 
under instrument conditions is prohibited 
by law. (See Federal Aviation Regula- 
tions, Section 91.19.) 

Computers are sources of EMI (elec- 
tromagnetic interference), which can af- 
fect the navigational equipment aboard 
modern aircraft. This poses a clear hazard 
to the safety of the aircraft and its 
passengers. 

Clearly, portable computers and air- 
planes do not mix. Nor is this restriction 
likely to be lifted in the near future. 
Although EMI can be reduced through 
shielding, it cannot be eliminated, and its 
effects can be cumulative. With most 
airline passengers flying for business pur- 
poses, the chance of multiple computer 
users on a given flight increases with the 
growing popularity of portables. Addi- 
tionally, defects in wiring caused by either 
poor manufacture or physical shock (an 
increasing possibility with portables) can 
totally negate the effects of shielding. This 
would not necessarily affect the operation 
of the computer in any other way that 
might alert the operator to the situation. 

Circle 212 on inquiry card. > 



Issz* 






m 



mm 



XNTRTECCWKSWRMS I COMPUSAR 



1.Z IZ VJMIV. » . I J °.i B * T » »"»!■ 



f* r r c m^rr i • i 



»:•- 



TOUGH TO OUTGROW 



It's no surprise so many businesses today are using our 
CompuStar* multi-user microcomputer. All sorts of 
businesses, those at the top and those on the way, know 
that only CompuStar can give them the big system 
performance they'll need as they grow. And they know 
that only CompuStar can deliver that performance at a 
fraction of the cost of most other systems. 

CompuStar' solves the small business computer 
dilemma. It's ideal for those first time business users who 
need only single-user capability. But it's also perfect 
when those small businesses grow into large 
corporations. That's because CompuStar is truly 
expandable ... all the way up to 255 workstations, each 
with its own processor and internal computer memory. 
And that means fast, fast response, even when many 
users are on-line at the same time. 

Whether you're a small business with big plans or a big 
business with an eye for economy, CompuStar* has the 
performance and versatility that's tough to outgrow. . . the 
price/performance ratio that's impossible to beat! 



STANDARD FEATURES 

• 350K/750K/1.5 MB workstation disk capacities 

• 64K RAM and twin processors in each workstation 

• An easy-to-read 12-inch non-glare screen 

• Operator convenience features numeric keypad and 
visual text highlighting 

• Microsoft* Basic 

• CP/M t operating software 

• Truly multi-user and multi-processor 

STORAGE OPTIONS 

• 10 MB compact, low-cost and tabletop 

• 96 MB 80 fixed and 16 removable megabytes 

• 144 MB reliable, rugged Winchester storage 

CompuStar" is built and backed by the company that's 
been in the microcomputer business as long as 
microcomputers have been in business. Would you trust 
your business to anything less? CompuStar* Tough to 
beat. Tough to outgrow! 



ESY5TBVIS 



Circle 110 on inquiry card. 

MicroSpooler 
Saves Time 

MicroSpoolers mean an end to 
waiting. The MicroSpooler stores 
data and feeds it to your printer as 
fast as it can handle it. You don't 
lose valuable computer time 
waiting for the printer to do its job. 

Easy to install. Easy to use. Easy 
on the budget. These stand-alone 
MicroSpoolers can be installed in- 
line between virtually any printer 
and any computer. 

Features: 

• I6K memory (user expandable 
to 32K or 64K) • Status readout 
• Internal power supply • Vertical 
mount configuration • Indepen- 
dently selectable baud rates and 
handshaking • Satisfaction 
guaranteed • Priced from $ 1 99.00 




Send or call loll free for literature 
on our complete Spooler lines. 

CONSOLINK 

CORPORATION 

Dept. 2-48 

1 840 Industrial Circle 

Longmont, CO80501 

(303)651-2014 

800-525-6705 



Letters. 



Manufacturers may advertise portables 
that will fit under an airplane seat. That is 
where they belong. If you feel compelled 
to work while flying, stick to pushing 
papers. Sit back and enjoy the flight. 

Alexander Raue 
Executive Vice-President 
Elegant Solutions 
3 Pleasant Valley Rd. 
Whippany, NJ 07981 



Don't Knock FORTH, C 

I was pleased to see "Modula-2" by Joel 
McCormack and Richard Gleaves (April, 
p. 385), as I have been trying, with little 
success so far, to find out something 
about this alternative to Ada. It seems to 
be all that I hoped for. Although I like 
begin-end blocks better than if -end, while- 
end blocks, that's mainly due to my ex- 
perience first with Pascal and then with C. 
Niklaus Wirth seems to have done an ex- 
cellent job. Which brings me to the meat 
of my letter: the article is a good introduc- 
tion to Modula-2, but it contained an un- 
fair attack on the languages C and 
FORTH. 

Hear me out. I am not an uncritical ex- 
ponent of either language, especially not 
FORTH (although I don't know any other 
language that is as well suited to fast, effi- 
cient programming), but C certainly has 
the capability to clearly describe data 
structures and algorithms, detect program 
errors as syntax errors (although FORTH 
falls behind here, it certainly won't "quiet- 
ly rearrange the meaning of the 
program"), and protect against improper 
mixing of different types (Pascal protects 
against even proper mixing of different 
types). If McCormack and Gleaves claim 
it can't, they don't know much about C. 
They certainly can't ever have pro- 
grammed in C. 

They also claim that C is "unreadable." 
Nothing could be farther from the truth. 
C is clean and lean, but hardly unread- 
able. I find it much more readable than 
Pascal, with its muddy structure. The 
authors' final slam on C, that it has "in- 
adequate separate compilation features," 
is clearly untrue. The only way they could 
have gotten such an idea is by using (or 
hearing about) one of the hobbyist im- 
plementations of C. 

Hoare was right: a language needs to be 
small enough that there is no need for 
subsets. It also needs to be large enough 



that there is no need for supersets. C (and 
probably, now, Modula-2) is a happy 
balance of small and large. I have never 
seen a superset (or even the need for a 
superset) of C. I have seen subsets of C 
and Pascal (and even, God forbid, 
BASIC), but these have been amateur 
compilers and interpreters designed pure- 
ly for hobbyists. I have seen plenty of 
supersets of Pascal. In fact I have seen 
only one ISO standard, no-extensions 
Pascal. Nobody used it. 

Extended Pascal is certainly not super- 
ior to C. It fails in power, elegance, and 
portability. McCormack and Gleaves 
should have presented Modula-2, which 
they clearly know well, to be judged on its 
own merits, rather than attack a language 
they seem to have little experience with. 

P. J. da Silva 

9950 Club Creek Dr., Apt. 602 

Houston, TX 77036 



Belady's Algorithm Revisited 

Because Stephen Schmitt's "Virtual 
Memory for Microcomputers" (April, p. 
210) mentions L. A. Belady's algorithm, I 
would like to call your attention to the 
paper in which Belady presented many 
other algorithms (such as LRU) and the 
concept of locality of references for the 
first time: "A Study of Replacement 
Algorithms for a Virtual Storage Com- 
puter," IBM Systems Journal, Volume 5, 
Number 2, 1966, pp. 78-101. 

R. J. Wilfinger 

17 Square Woods Dr. 

La Grangeville, NY 12546 



Formatting in FORTRAN 

I really enjoyed the April Letters col- 
umn (p. 12). It was a lively forum on what 
has grown into a multi-billion-dollar in- 
dustry, the home computer business. 

I first verified David Dunthorn's allega- 
tion (December 1982, p. 22) that Micro- 
soft's FORTRAN 80 (version 3.41, created 
December 1980) would not correctly com- 
pile a format statement: 

FORMAT(lX,3 F 10.2 / 1X,4 (F 10.4) 

Instead of rescanning at the 'F 10.4' set 
of parentheses as the ANSI (American 



12 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Introducing the Most Powerful 
Business Software Ever! 

TRS-80™ (Model I, II, III, or 16) • APPLE™ • IBM ™ • OSBORNE™ • CP/M™ • XEROX™ 



HP 



Tired "» \«-K^ *=■-><» 

GENERAL LEDGER- 




The VersaBusiness™ Series 

Each VERSABUSINESS module can be purchased and used independently, 
or can be linked in any combination to form a complete, coordinated business system. 



VERSARECEIVABLES t " $99.95 

VersaReceivabl.es T * is a complete menu-driven accounts receivable, invoicing, and 
monthly statement-generating system. It keeps track of all information related to who 
owes you or your company money, and can provide automatic billing for past due ac- 
counts. VERSA RECEIVABLES'" prints all necessary statements, invoices, and summary 
reports and can be linked with VERSALEDGER IF" and Versa Inventory™, 

VERSAPAYABLES™ $99.95 

VERSA Payables™ is designed to keep track of current and aged payables, keeping you 
in touch with all information regarding how much money your company owes, and to 
whom. VERSA PAYABLES™ maintains a complete record on each vendor, prints checks, 
check registers, vouchers, transaction reports, aged payables reports, vendor reports, 
and more. With VERSA PAYABLES™, you can even let your computer automatically select 
which vouchers are to be paid. 

VERSAPaYROLL'" $99.95 

VERSA PAYROLL'" is a powerful and sophisticated, but easy to use payroll system that 
keeps track of all government-required payroll information. Complete employee records 
are maintained, and all necessary payroll calculations are performed automatically, with 
totals displayed on screen for operator approval. A payroll can be run totally, automati- 
cally, or the operator can intervene to prevent a check from being printed, or to alter 
information on it. If desired, totals may be posted to the VersaLedger IT" system. 

VERSAlNVENTORY" $99.95 

Versa INVENTORY™ is a complete inventory control system that gives you instant access 
to data on any item. VERSA INVENTORY'" keeps track of all information related to what 
items are in stock, out of stock, on backorder, etc., stores sales and pricing data, alerts 
you when an item falls below a preset reorder point, and allows you to enter and print 
invoices directly or to link with the VERSARECEIVABLES™ system. VERSA INVENTORY™ prints 
all needed inventory listings, reports of items below reorder point, inventory value re- 
ports, period and year-to date sales reports, price lists, inventory checklists, etc. 

•CQMPLJTRaNICS? 

50 N. PASCACK ROAD, SPRING VALLEY, N.Y. 10977 



VersaLedger ii™ $149.95 

VersaLedger IF* is a complete accounting system that grows as your business 
grows. VersaLedger II™ can be used as a simple personal checkbook register, 
expanded to a small business bookkeeping system or developed into a large 
corporate general ledger system without any additional software. 

• VersaLedger II™ gives you almost unlimited storage capacity 

(300 to 10,000 entries per month, depending on the system), 

• stores all check and general ledger information forever, 

• prints tractor-feed checks, 

• handles multiple checkbooks and general ledgers, 

• prints 17 customized accounting reports including check registers, 
balance sheets, income statements, transaction reports, account 
listings, etc. 

VersaLedger 11™ comes with a professionally-written 160 page manual de- 
signed for first-time users. The VERSALEDGER II™ manual will help you become 
quickly familiar with VersaLedger II™, using complete sample data files 
supplied on diskette and more than 50 pages of sample printouts. 



SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! 



Every VERSABUSINESS™ module is guaranteed to outperform all other competitive systems, 
and at a fraction of their cost. If you are not satisfied with any VERSABUSINESS™ module, you 
may return it within 30 days for a refund. Manuals for any VERSABUSINESS™ module may be 
purchased for $25 each, credited toward a later purchase of that module. 



To Order: 



Write or call Toll-free (800) 43 1-28 18 

(IN.Y.S. residents call 9 14-425- 1535) 



* add $3 for shipping in UPS areas 

* add $4 for C.O.D. or non-UPS areas 

Circle 184 on inquiry card. ^ 

DEALER INQUIRIES WELCOME 

All prices and specifications subject to change , 



" add $5 to, CANADA or MEXICO 
* add proper postage elsewhere 



Delivery subject to availability. 



* TRS-80 is a trademark of the Radio Shack Division of Tandy Ccrp. ■ * APPLE is a trademark of Apple Corp "IBM is a trademark of IBM Corp. 

*CP'M is a trademark of Digital Research *XEROX is a trademark of Xerox Corp. 



*OSBORNE is a trademark of Osborne Corp. 







If you guessed that a Practical 
Peripherals Microbuffer™ 
printer buffer saves time, 
you're right. For the way it 
works, this inexpensive prod- 
uct is the most practical addi- 
tion to your microcomputer 
system ever. 

With Microbuffer, you 
don't have to wait for your 
printer to finish before you 
resume using your computer. 

Data is received and 
stored at fast speeds, then 
released from Microbuffer's 
memory to your printer. 

This is called buffer- 
ing. The more you print, the 
more productive it makes your 
workflow. 

Depending on the ver- 
sion of Microbuffer, these buf- 
fering capacities range from a 
useful 8K of random access 
memory — big enough for 
8,000 characters of storage — 
up to a very large 256K — 
enough for 256,000 characters 
of storage. 



MICRO 




14 BYTE July 1983 







Practical Peripherals 
makes stand-alone Micro- 
buffers for any computer and 
printer combination, including 
add-on units especially for 
Apple II computer and/or 
Epson printers. 

Each has different fea- 
tures like graphics dumps and 
text formatting besides its 
buffering capabilities. You can 
choose one that's just right for 
your system. 

Best of all, they're built 
to last and work exactly like 
they're supposed to. 

If you're still guessing 
whether you can afford to have 
one, talk with any computer 
dealer. That's the best way to 
find out how practical a 
Practical Peripherals 
Microbuffer is. 



Practical Peripherals. Inc. 

31245 La Baya Drive, Westlake Village. 

California 91362. (213) 991-8200 

Circle 322 on inquiry card. 






BYTE July 1983 15 



Letters. 



National Standards Institute) standard 
said it should, it rescanned to '3 F 10.2 '. If 
there were 11 variables in the I/O (input/ 
output) list, the first row should have 
three floating-point numbers with two 
decimal places and the second and third 
rows should have four floating-point 
numbers with four decimal places. 

Old Microsoft didn't quite manage this! 
It gave a correct first and second row, but 
the third row had three numbers with two 
decimal places and the fourth had one 
number with four decimal places. 

However, I'm not sure T. M. Putnam's 
criticism (December 1982, page 22) of the 
IBM Personal Computer FORTRAN com- 
piler's handling of the CHARACTER data 
type is as valid. If a CHARACTER*64 
data type is specified and the I/O list has 
fewer than 64 characters, a run-time error 
should occur. If, for example, the 64 
characters in the I/O list form a sentence 
and the compiler accepts fewer than 64 
characters, a logical error, loss in mean- 
ing, occurs. Pascal has a similar compiler 
error more cryptically stated: 

175: Actual Parameter string length 
less than var formal max length 

To make things more confusing, Apple 
FORTRAN had no trouble with the rescan 
problem and will accept the CHARAC- 
TER * 64 data type. In this compiler a 
variable LINE, typed as CHAR- 
ACTER*64 and confronted with an I/O 
list 10 characters in length, would be 10 
characters; if the I/O list were more than 
64 characters, variable LINE would be 64 
characters. 

Computer languages evolve, and mean- 
ing, form, and syntax change. I don't like 
Microsoft's handling of the FORMAT 
rescan function, but I cannot go along 
with Putnam's criticism of IBM PC FOR- 
TRAN. Microsoft is paranoid about the 
number of backup copies you make for 
your personal use and anxiously awaits 
the return of your serial number. It would 
seem, in fairness to the consumer, that a 
"bug" list, or discovered variations from 
ANSI standards, should be made avail- 
able to registered purchasers of Microsoft 
products. 

I use FORTRAN a good deal because 
most of the medical computers in ra- 
diology use the language. Many of these 
devices are under the jurisdiction of the 
FDA and the Bureau of Radiological 
Health. With the proliferation of micro- 
computers and programs in the hands of 
health-service professionals and physi- 



cians who use these products in patient 
care, it is possible to have a negligent soft- 
ware company on the wrong end of a 
multi-million-dollar malpractice suit. L. J. 
Kutten's elegant letter on "Disclaimers 
and the Law" (April, p. 22) should be re- 
quired reading for the president of 
Microsoft. 

Albert Weinshelbaum, M.D. 
Associate Chief, Diagnostic Radiology 
V.A. Medical Center 
150 Muir Rd. 
Martinez, CA 94553 



VDTs and Radiation 

Edward Gogol's letter (April, p. 14) on 
the health risks of video display terminals' 
radiative emissions is indeed alarming. 
One of the aspects of his argument is that 
he would like actual exposure values 
quoted so that he could make his own 
decisions relative to absolute danger. I 
submit that if he knew enough about the 
subject to assess risk from quoted figures, 
he would either know where to find the 
numbers or how to measure them. In our 
technologically advanced society, we 
must accept the fact that another's 
knowledge must be depended on — an in- 
dividual cannot know everything there is 
to know. 

The subject of risk from radiation ex- 
posure is fraught with difficulties. These 
difficulties stem from the facts that Gogol 
points out, such as the lack of a threshold. 
The first documented cases of biological 
risk from ionizing radiation began to ap- 
pear in the few months immediately 
following its discovery (before the turn of 
the century). The early cases showed 
damage attributable to massive doses, and 
it did not take many such instances to 
assign a correlation between the irradia- 
tion and the damage. As time (and 
knowledge) progressed, effects due to 
smaller and smaller amounts of radiation 
became apparent. 

There is one salient feature involved 
here — the smaller the risk imposed by a 
perturbing factor, the larger the number 
of samples required to prove a causal rela- 
tionship. The fact that the relationship 
between sample size required to prove 
causality and radiation dose follows a 
squared relationship can be illustrated as 
follows: if it takes 1000 people to prove 
that the risk of developing disease due to 
radiation is x at a dose level of 100 rads, it 
would take 100,000 people to demonstrate 



a risk at 10 rads. These numbers are only 
hypothetical, but at the radiation levels 
we can measure from VDTs, it is ex- 
ceedingly unlikely that deleterious effects 
will ever be detectable, especially in view 
of background radiation levels and spon- 
taneous disease rates. 

To quote from FDA 81-8153, An 
Evaluation of Radiation Emission from 
Video Display Terminals, "For both nor- 
mal and Phase III (worst-case) operating 
conditions, the likely emission from a 
VDT is 0.1 millirem (mR) per hour or less. 
Terminals capable of exceeding the 0.5- 
mR per hour regulatory limit receive 
special attention. With the assumptions of 
6 hours per viewing day, 5 days per week 
for 50 weeks per year, the annual radia- 
tion dose to an individual 2 inches from 
the front surface of the screen emitting 0.1 
mR per hour would be 150 mR. Note that 
2 inches is an unrealistically short viewing 
distance; as one moves further away from 
the screen, the radiation exposure decreas- 
es correspondingly." 

The synergistic effects of UV, micro- 
waves, and ionizing radiation are ques- 
tionable. The microwaves emitted from 
VDTs fall primarily (95 percent) in the 
range 15 kHz to 125 kHz, or below the 
AM radio band, and do not interact sig- 
nificantly with the body. Careful atten- 
tion to the spectral response of phosphors 
limits their emissions to visible light, 
which should make the benefit/risk analy- 
sis very easy. Again, the levels emitted are 
much below applicable standards, which 
are sent below detectable limits for disease 
induction. Remember, "detectable" im- 
plies relative risks compared to back- 
ground rates. 

It seems apparent to me that if radiation 
exposure from VDTs was indeed a signifi- 
cant health hazard, the effects would be 
seen in the population consisting of TV 
station program directors, who have 
peered into not one but many (10 or 20) 
simultaneously operating screens for mul- 
tiple years — many of those years prior to 
the 1968 regulations that limit the cir- 
cuitry and radiative emissions of TVs and 
VDTs. We know that the risk is vanish- 
ingly small (based on our past experi- 
ence), so the risk/benefit/cost analysis 
cannot favor any change that will even 
mildly increase the cost (i.e., lead screens, 
folded optics, LCDs, etc.). 

Gregory L. Gibbs 

Rocky Mountain Medical Physics Inc. 

POB 27667 

Denver, CO 80227 



16 July 19S3 © BYTE Publication! Inc 




• 


6i w-eiri 



a' 

: 



THE WORLD'S 
BEST SELLING 
IBM PC 
BOARD, 



Now you can get the world's best 
selling IBM PC board at the worlds 
best price. Quadram's Quadboard is 
now more of a bargain than ever. 
With a new low price, but that same 
Quadram Quality. 

All-On-One-Board 

Quadboard is the multifunction board 
that lets you get the most out of your 
IBM Personal Computer, PC XT, and PC 
II. Because Quadboard combines six of 
the most-needed PC functions onto 
one card using just one expansion slot. 

This leaves the PC's other slots open 
for all your future needs. 

Suadboard comes with a parallel port 
esigned to operate most printers and 
other parallel devices. 

There's a serial port, too. Use it to con- 
nect your PC to modems, printers, and 
other serial devices to expand your data 
communications capabilities. The ser- 
ial port can be addressed as C0M1 f 
or COM2 and fully supports IBM r 
PC communications software. , 

Quadboard also comes with an •i 1 *\ v 
on-board chronograph. A real- . >> 
time clock/calendar that always v -- 
keeps your system's clock up 
to date. Even when your r« iat 
PC's been off for monthsl y J * U ™ 

Plus there's plenty of memory space 
available. Quadboard is expandable in 
64K increments to give you up to 




256K of RAM. The memory rows 
are fully socketed. With parity and 
checking standard. 

Plus QuadMaster Software, too 

Quadboard comes with a complete 
software package. The QuadMaster 
disk. With programs that let you use 
part of memory as multiple solid-state 
RAM Drives. Super-fast drives that let 
you store information for easy access. 

Plus there's Qspool. The program that 
lets you turn your memory into a print 
buffer. Choose from 8K to 56K of 
buffer space. And compute while you 
print. No more waiting. 

And Qswap helps take care of your 
printing needs. Easy-to-use, this 
program lets you change line 
printers 1 and 2 back and forth, 
with a few simple keystrokes. As 
often as you like. 



J. 



The First and Only Is Still 
■» v the One and Only 

v Quadboard is the number one 
QUALITY ' IBM PC enhancement board 
_ on the market today. 

Nothing even comes close. Because 
Quadboard is designed with 
performance in mind. Engineered for 



FOR THE 

WORLD'S 

BEST PRICE. 



dependability. And built in the 
tradition of Quadram Quality— the 
symbol that you are getting the finest 
board available. 

The Best for Less 

And now, with a new low price, the 
best multifunction board in the 
world has just gotten better. So put 
Quadboard in your PC. And put a little 
money back in your pocket. 

And remember to askyour dealer 
about our full line of IBM PC enhance- 
ment products. 

Quadboard 
by Quadram. 
Still the first 
and only board 
your IBM PC 
may ever 
need. 




QUADRAM 

CORPORATION 



liiQenl Systems Company 




ircle 342 on Inquiry card. 



4355 International Blvd./Norcross, Ga. 30093 

(404) 923-6666/TWX 810-766-4915 (QUADRAM NCRS) 



BYTE July 1983 



Letters , 



Fuzzier Than Intended 

There are errors in the programs ac- 
companying my article "Keywords in a 
Fuzzy Context " (March, p. 389). Line 182 
in the program BIBBLD.BAS should read 
'WORDS = LEFT$( WORDS, K WD. 
LEN%)' vice 'WORDS =LEFT$( WORDS, 
16)'. Without this change, the program 
will not work correctly for keywords with 
lengths other than 16 characters. A second 
error is present in the program 
VOCLST.BAS in line 6, which contains 
an extraneous variable, KWD, in the 
COMMON variable list. Line 6 should 
read 

COMMON ISS.LEN%,CLS$,ERR%, 
JOUR.LEN%,KWD.LEN%,CMD$(l) 

With the error certain sequences of pro- 
gram operation will result in an inability 
to chain from the keyword listing function 
back to the main menu. 

Thomas A. Smith 
1525 Lyndhurst Ave. 
Camarillo, CA 93010 



Thomas Smith's "Keywords in a Fuzzy 
Context" was most interesting. However, 
his mathematical interpretations of the 
fuzzy operations seem to yield perhaps 
unintended results. 

By defining the Boolean AND opera- 
tion as the minimum of two values, Smith 
has created a function that emphasizes the 
smaller value and ignores the larger one. 
Consider the use of the AND operation as 
applied to the values of the corresponding 
keywords in the interrogation and the ar- 
ticle descriptors. If an interrogation at- 
tribute was assigned a weight of 0.4 and a 
group of five articles with keyword values 
of 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, and 1.0 were being 
considered, the results of the fuzzy AND 
would be 0.2, 0.4, 0.4, 0.4, and 0.4 
respectively. Thus, rather than reflect a 
combination of the desired importance of 
an attribute and its value in an article, the 
AND operation limits the value of an arti- 
cle attribute to the keyword value, i.e., all 
articles with values greater than 0.4 will 
be evaluated equally and assigned a max- 
imum result of 0.4. Why doesn't Smith 
use the arithmetic multiply function that 
would yield a more discriminating set of 
values: 0.08, 0.16, 0.24, 0.32, and 0.4? 

A similar distortion occurs in the use of 
the OR operation, which is defined as the 
maximum of two values. Compare the 



results of (0.9 or 0.1) versus (0.8 or 0.8). Is 
the former pair, which yields a result of 
0.9, really superior to the latter pair, 
which has a result of only 0.8? Note again 
the importance placed on one value in a 
pair, in this case the larger one, at the ex- 
pense of ignORing all information about 
the smaller one. 

The "maximum" function is equivalent 
to (1.0 X larger value + 0.0 X smaller 
value). To take into account the smaller 
value, the coefficients could be adjusted to 
perhaps 0.75 and 0.25. In the above exam- 
ple, this formula would yield 0.7 for (0.9 
or 0.1) and 0.8 for (0.8 or 0.8). The values 
of the coefficients could be adjusted 
depending on the importance you assign 
to the larger value versus the smaller one. 

Seymour Small 

Center for Birth Defects Information 

Services 
171 Harrison Ave., Box 403 
Boston, MA 02111 



Storing Binary Numbers 

There may be a better way to store 
numbers in binary floating-point form 
than the technique that you presented in 
"Binary-Format Numbers Storage on the 
Apple II Disk," (March, p. 453). 

Why bother with the high-order bit? In 
fact, why call the DOS routine to put the 
data into the file buffer? Just move the 
5-byte floating-point number to the buffer 
directly and update the byte offset in the 
file manager work area. When the buffer 
is full, call the DOS routine to output the 
buffer and reset the work area pointers. 

In fact, many text files do not have the 
high-order bit on for each data byte in the 
file. These files do not follow the DOS 
convention, but they contain valid data 
nevertheless. Personal Finance Manager 
(Apple Special Delivery) uses a 281 -sector 
text file for storing binary data (floating 
point, integer, and character values, all 
without the high-order bit on). A better 
technique would be to use BSAVE/ 
BLOAD for binary data. This eliminates 
the program altogether. 

Using your technique to store a 
1000-element array would take four addi- 
tional sectors of disk space (6000 bytes 
versus 5000 bytes in a binary file). 

Ken Kashmarek 
6 Cherokee Ct. 
Eldridge, IA 52748 



In Support of Hackers 

Contrary to Ron Dyer and Daniel Ross, 
(Letters column, February, pp. 26-27), I 
find Jerry Pournelle's column very 
enlightening and entertaining. A periodi- 
cal that is very technically oriented needs 
Jerry's approach to journalism. I enjoy it 
so much that it's the first thing I read after 
"In the Queue." Pournelle tells it like it is 
in the real world. His "friends" add di- 
mension, and the clubs and organizations 
add topic material and background. 

Daniel Ross should come down from 
his pedestal and look around. I've worked 
in a software house for seven and a half 
years as a quality assurance analyst, and 
I'll take the so-called hacker any day to 
correct a bug report. The hacker's tools 
are intuition, imagination, and luck. The 
rate at which he or she can fix the bug and 
get the customer up and running again is 
what it's all about. All that top-down stuff 
is fine for new software development, but 
when the customer finds a bug and 
revenue isn't being generated, the hacker 
comes to the rescue. 

No matter how much you preach and 
teach about flow charting or top-down 
design, they're long forgotten once the 
software is released. If it weren't for 
hackers, nothing would get done. 

Larry Brown 

26565 Joy Rd. 

Dearborn Heights, MI 48127 



A Vote for Pournelle 

In reference to the attack on Jerry 
Pournelle in the February Letters column 
(p. 26), Dyer and Ross take themselves 
and microcomputing much too seriously. 
Keep the column just the way it is. I think 
that Jerry is much closer to the real world 
than either of these gentlemen. Those who 
are offended can very easily skip the 
User's Column. 

Rodger B. Hallen 
Regional Comm, Office 
American Embassy-Manila 
APO San Francisco, CA 96528 



Tell Jerry Pournelle that I am with him 
100 percent on his comment in the 
February User's Column (p. 364). Keep it 



18 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 






Circle 174 on inquiry card. . 



IBM + GENIE = Solution 

5.25" Fixed /Removable Winchester Cartridge Drive Systems 
For The IBM Personal Computer/Compatibles 




• 5 

■*g- palm o 



The Genie Cartridge Drive 

A revolutionary new 10 Megabyte Hard Disk Drive that In- 
cludes a 5 Megabyte removable hard disk cartridge. The car- 
tridge drive system simply plugs Into your computer, and In- 
cludes all necessary software and hardware. Genie Drives 
are compatible with most popular software, and each car- 
tridge replaces over 30 double-density floppy disks. 

• 5.25" Removable Cartridge 

(Proposed ANSI Standard). Imagine, 5 Megabytes in the 
palm of your hand. These small Winchester cartridges are 
only .75 inches thick and 5.50 inches square. The disk itself 
is completely sealed from the outside and all its hazards by 
a sliding door that opens only once the cartridge Is firmly 
seated Inside the drive. 



Genie's Solution To Personal 
Computer Mass Storage Problems 




10 MEGABYTES OF ON-LINE STORAGE p„~„r„.u«. c „..-» D^kl.-.. 

file sizes to 5 megabytes Computer Mass Storage Problems 

BACK-UP 5 MEGABYTES IN TWO MINUTES Up un,M now> P^P 19 wi,h serious mass storage appllca- 
r*DTDinrc iMTcoruAkircAon itv tions have had no realistic means of conveniently malntain- 

UAH I MlUlat IN I tHUr-lANtatABlLI I Y [ng tneir | arge data bases due to tnecost | storage media 

GUARANTEED and the expense and inefficiencies of doing back-ups. The 

Genie systems approach solves such typical storage prob- 
'■ lems by allowing both high capacity Fixed Drives and 5 Megabyte Re- 
movable Cartridge Drives to be intermixed on the same computer 
system. This provides the ultimate storage solution because of the new 
ease of doing back-ups, along with ability to maintain several large data 
bases on removable cartridges, eliminating the need to tie up expensive 
disk drives over a single data base application. With Genie Drives, the 
combinations are unlimited. Flexibility and versatility were key design 
considerations. A user can configure up to eight of our Drive Products in 
any combination to derive a storage solution for Just about any 
__ application imaginable. With Genie, your personal 

computer can now take on tasks that 
had only been possible with 
mainframes. 



5 MEGABYTES OF ON-LINE 

STORAGE 

FILE SIZES TO 5 MEGABYTES 



Genie Systems 

Are 

Expandable 

Up To 160 

Megabytes 

Using Any 

Combination 

Of 

Genie Drive 

Models 



MEGABYTES 




■ USER CAN BACK-UP TO MODELS 5 + 5 OR X5 
REMOVABLE CARTRIDGE DRIVES OR DISKETTES. 

5 MEGABYTES 

10 MEGABYTES '. 

15 MEGABYTES 
20 MEGABYTES 

Manufacturer's suggested retail price. Includes all required 

components. 
CP/M-66 and Concurrent CP/M-86 is a registered trademark • 

of Digital Research. 
IBM is a registered trademark of IBM Corporation. . i 

Oysan is a registered trademark of Dysan Corporation. 
UCSD P System is a registered trademark of the Regents of 

the University of California San Diego. 
QNX is a registered trademark of Quantum Software System, Inc. 
Etheriink is a registered trademark of 3Com Corporation. • 

Ethernet Is a registered trademark of Xerox Corporation. i 



ItlMMI 

TALK ABOUT USER FRIENDLY . . . 
3Com Ethershare™ Compatible (Ethernet Standard) 



• IBM XT Compatible 
' Automatic Install (Genie Custom BIOS) 

• Comprehensive menu driven utility package 

■ Intermix different operating systems on 
disk or cartridge 

• Assign to any drive codes from A thru H 

■ Choice of volume sizes 

■ Give your virtual volumes 16 character 
names 

■ Assign command allows you to assign 8 
virtual drives on line at any one time 

■ Show command allows instantaneous 
viewing of all virtual drives on line 

■ Help command displays syntax for all 
new commands 

• User can back up to or from any model 
Genie Drive 



• File sizes 5-20 megabytes, dependent 
upon drive type. 

• Automatic recovery system 

• Easy back ups in minutes 

• Cartridges can have 16 character names 

• System status screen messages 

• System expandable to eight drives 
using only one slot in your IBM PC 

• Built-in error detection and correction 

• No preventative maintenance required 

• Power-on self test 

• Create turnkey systems 

• Ultra hi-speed DMA data transfers 

• Comes complete with all necessary 
software and hardware 

• Operating systems supported: 

IBM DOS 1.1, 2.0, CONCURRENT CP/M 86* 
CP/M 86® , UCSD P SYSTEM* , QNXTM 



AVAILABLE AT YOUR LOCAL COMPUTER DEALER 



GELliE COMPUTER CORPORATION 

31131 Via Colinas #607* Westlake Village, CA91362»(213)991-6210»TLX 658233 (GENIE USA) 



Circle 139 on inquiry card. 










Apple® II, He 

5 megabyte 

Removable 

HARD_DISK™ 

n,295 

HARD_DISK is 
designed for fast access 
to large data files. 
The Removable 
HARD_DISK PAC™ 
can even replace floppy 
diskettes as a very 
reliable backup media 
and eliminate the need 
to add floppy disk 
drives. 

One Year Warranty 

205-871-0987 

Digital Electronics Systems 

107 Euclid Avenue 

Mountain Brook, AL 35213 



HARD_DISK, PAC are trademarks of Digital Electronic 

Systems, Inc. 

Apple II, He is a trademark of Apple Computer, inc. 



Letters. 



a user's column. Tell me about things that 
can be bought and have been tested. Let 
somebody else write the language 
theorist's column. 

I rather like seeing a little of the 
background behind the columnist's life. It 
makes the column seem more like a letter 
from a friend. And it helps to explain why 
"excellent" products that are hard to learn 
get such a chilly market reception; most 
people are too busy to spend the time 
learning them. 

A reverence for clear thought is more 
the domain of the scientist/mathemati- 
cian/theorist than the engineer. Those 
who solve real physical problems under 
time and expense constraints use many 
"cut and try" or "rule of thumb" ap- 
proaches. Many practical real products 
are produced this way, and recombinant 
DNA and movies are prime examples, not 
counter-examples. Haven't Pournelle's 
critics ever heard of the "cutting rooms" in 
Hollywood? 

R. S. Lumsden 

36 Palomino Crescent 

Willowdale, Ontario M2K 1W3 

Canada 



Revisiting the Next 
Generation 

Timothy Stryker presented a proposal 
for a stack-oriented microprocessor that 
would directly implement in hardware the 
primary operations of a high-level lan- 
guage such as FORTH ("The Next Genera- 
tion of Microprocessor," January, p. 128). 
However, as Stryker points out, this 
machine does not implement threaded 
code, and therefore it does not provide 
one of the most significant features of 
FORTH — extensibility of the operation 
set. In fact, implementing FORTH on this 
machine would require either an inner in- 
terpreter as in present-day implementa- 
tions (the FORTH routine NEXT) to run 
FORTH code, which is very inefficient in 
terms of time, or in-line threading via ex- 
plicit subroutine calls, which is inefficient 
in terms of space. 

By making the following slight change 
in Stryker's scheme, it is possible to imple- 
ment threaded code directly and efficient- 
ly in hardware (in fact, Stryker suggests a 
similar trick in his article, but (of other 
purposes): the low-order bit of each 
machine instruction is used to distinguish 
between primary operations and user- 



defined extensions to the operation set. If 
this bit were set, the rest of the byte being 
examined would be decoded as an or- 
dinary machine instruction to be executed 
directly by the hardware, but if the low- 
order bit was 0, this and the following 
byte would be treated as a 16-bit address 
of a subroutine to which an implicit CALL 
would be performed. With this architec- 
ture, a full version of FORTH can be im- 
plemented directly in machine language. 
User definitions would be compiled sim- 
ply as subroutines. The double-indirect 
threading of today's FORTH is not needed 
because its main function (distinguishing 
between machine code and high-level 
code) is taken over by the hardware, and 
its other functions (e.g., for the definition 
of new operation types) can easily be 
achieved if there are instructions to direct- 
ly access the subroutine return stack and 
its stack pointer. Moreover, in this new 
machine's FORTH, machine and high- 
level operations can be arbitrarily mixed. 
And in contrast to present-day FORTHs, 
operations in the primary word set require 
only 1 byte for each reference and no 
overhead in machine time; high-level 
operations require the same amount of 
memory but less time than at present. 

The cost of this scheme is small — on 
average, Vi byte of memory for each user 
definition because definitions must begin 
at even addresses. Also, Stryker's ab- 
breviated "PUSH a 16-bit constant" 
operation could no longer be implemented 
(i.e., a 16-bit PUSH would now always re- 
quire 3 bytes of program space). How- 
ever, PUSHes of constants above 16 or so 
make up only a very small part of a typi- 
cal program. 

Gordon Wassermann 
Plasshofstrasse 29 
4630 Bochum 
West Germany 



Surpassing the 68000? 

I read Chris Morgan's Product Descrip- 
tion of IBM's 9000 (January, p. 100). Ex- 
cellent article and to the point. Sounds 
like quite a product. 

The article's last statement provides 
food for thought and speculation. "In one 
gesture, IBM has legitimized a micropro- 
cessor that deserves more attention. The 
Motorola 68000." 

It would be interesting to know when 
IBM made the decision to use the 68000 in 



20 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 432 on Inquiry card. 



J 



INTRODUCING 



W77 




EW 



^Majj^g 



, : f 

■ ... » ♦ . .j 



\ii **■* 



i 



from Videx, 



the revolutionary new card 
II enjoy sweeping panoramas 



128 columns by 32 lines, 132 columns by 24 
lines and even 160 columns by 24 lines. You'll 
revel in the scenics of a whole year of records 
stretching out across your screen. 

Vbu'll also delight in the new horizon of 80 
columns by 48 lines — double the lines you 
normally have. So your word processing will 
reveal a "depth of character" never possible 
before! 

Another breath-taking view of Ultralerm — it 
delivers absolutely flicker-free, stale of the art 



preposterously clear, readable characters. Not 
only will you see more characters on your 
screen (a whopping 40% possible), but they'll 
also be larger and more readable than the 
characters you read every day in your news- 



paper! And you can differentiate those charac- 
ters in several modes: normal (white on black) 
inverse (black on white), bright intensitv and 
dim intensity. 

L/ltraTerm features a built-in soft video switch 
and has complete firmware support for BASIC 
Pascal and CP/M". Use it with the Apple 1 II, 
Apple lie, Apple III and Franklin. 

UltraTerm. Come on over and 

enjoy the view. 

Suggested retail price: $379 



idex 



8 l )7 N.W. Grant Avenue, Corvallis, OR 973.10 
503-758-0521 



Apple Compu 



' M is ,i iruislrred trjcji'i 



Letters. 



the 9000. Was the Intel 80286 available at 
the time7 As of today (the 80286 became 
available in the fourth quarter of 1982), 
the 80286 will run rings around the 68000 
on every score from speed to chip count. 
The 68000 won't come close in the C/Unix 
"microcomputer box" competition, for ex- 
ample. I think the 68000 has been sur- 
passed. 

Howard Boyet 

14 E. 8th St. 

New York, NY 10003 



And More Pdkkdos. . . 

It is my sad duty to inform you that the 
otherwise excellent letter from Chris 
Rudek (March, p. 22) contains a typo- 
graphical error. The word "pokkdo" 
should actually be "pdkkdo." 

It further annoys me that a ROM 
change is required to reconfigure the 
Osborne keyboard. This kind of executive 
paranoia is unjustifiable in light of the 
manifest availability of EAROMs, 



EEPROMs, etc. Why not permit users to 
reconfigure ad libitum! After all, the 
keyboard is detachable. When it becomes 
thoroughly discombobulated, they can 
always return it for refurbishing. 

Jon Singer 
Associate Engineer 
Metamorphic Systems 
4858 Sterling Dr. 
Boulder, CO 80310 



The Notion 
of Computer Literacy 

I'd like to rebut E.J. Neiburger's letter 
(March, p. 16) scornfully decrying the 
need for computer literacy. The author 
shows more wit than insight. 

Had the notion of computer literacy ex- 
isted in the decades following the 1830s, it 
surely would have been pressed into ser- 
vice by the builders of railroads and other 
early products of the Industrial Revolu- 
tion. The fact is that folks back then were 



just as leery of those machines as folks to- 
day are of computers. 

Comparing computers to telephones or 
digital watches is misleading. Telephones 
came at the end of the Industrial Revolu- 
tion, when the public was ready to ac- 
cept — and expect — the "wonders of 
science." Nowadays we grow up with 
telephones and either don't give them a se- 
cond thought or view them as indispen- 
sable tools of modern life — presumably 
the computer's future niche. 

The computer literacy issue is a moot 
point. In two years or five the public will 
be computer literate by virtue of media 
overexposure and plain old familiarity — 
but what about those in the industry itself 
who write the documentation meant to 
clarify both hardware and software? Will 
they achieve literacy? I hope so, because 
my poor brain is wearing out from so 
much head scratching arising from puz- 
zling over obtusely written manuals. 



Sadja Herzog 
6519 Fountain Ave. 
Los Angeles, CA 900281 



AZTEC C — ' C ' PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM 
PORTABLE SOFTWARE APPLE CPIM IBM 




rvM^t 



Io^ s « 









>».%& 



^» 






-oos 



.Wra 



n«a 



%<& 






QO* 



Sim 

Shipping: COD. 2nd day delivery, or Canada, add $5. Canada 2nd day or US next (s3^.^s» "^"HSflet* °* 8 ' 

day delivery, add S20. Outside North America, add $20. and for 2nd day add $75 



^w 



-ft!* 

■Vecfc 




«-!T£S 



22 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 248 on inquiry card. 



hen you' 
heavywei 
at a I0 1 
outweighs 



■■■ ^m 







PI 



king for 
competition 



IBC MIDDI CADET 



Maximum Users 
Disk Storage 
Memory 
CPU Speed 

Benchmark (Elapsed tim< 

List Price 



9 

20 MB 

256 KB * * 

6 MHz 

1:44 Minutes' 

$7495.00 



ALTOS ™ ACS 8000-10 



Maximum Users 
Disk Storage 
Memory 
CPU Speed 
Benchmark (Eia PS € 
Lisl Price 



4 

10 MB 

208 KB 

4 MHz 

5:03 Minutes' 

$7995.00 



The IBC MIDDI Cadet is better, faster and less expensive than the ALTOS ACS-8000-10 and 

others. That's why we call it the heavyweight performer. 

Because the MIDDI is completely software compatible with ALTOS, ONYX IM Dynabyte ,M and 

others using CP/M' M 2.2, MP/M™ II or OASIS IM , you can transport your applications software to the 

MIDDI without modification. So why not take the benchmark test yourself. 

If you are an OEM, system integrator, multiple end user, or dealer for any of our competitors, 

send a copy of your application program to IBC. We will run your software on the MIDDI without 

modification and give you the elapsed time in minutes. You be the judge. If it really is faster 

than your current hardware and it is , then you owe it to yourself and your customers to switch to 

IBC. 

So remember! When you want a heavyweight performer at a low price, contact: - 



OUTSIDE THE USA 



IOC/ 



21592 Manila Street 

Chatsworth. CA 91311 

(213) 882-9007 TELEX NO. 215349 

ALTOS is a trademark of ALTOS Computor I 
Computers CP/M & MP/M are trademarks 



WITHIN THE USA 



JWJEil 



1140 36th Street Suite #212 
Ogden, UTAH 84403 
(801)621-2294 



Circle 189 on inquiry card 



our users under OASIS 
3deable to 512 K Byles 






nark of Phase One Syster 



Ranas disk drive was 

twice as good as Apple's 

with one head. 



Now we have two. 




We added another head 
so you won't have to buy another disk. 

That's the beauty of a double sided head. A 
floppy disk which allows you to read and write on 
both sides. For more storage, for more information, 

for keeping larger records, 
and for improved perfor- 
mance of your system. 
That's what our new Elite 
Two and Elite Three offers. 
It's the first double headed 
Apple® compatible disk 
drive in the industry. And of 
course, the technology is 
from Rana. We're the com- 
pany who gave you 163K 
bytes of storage with our Elite One, a 14% increase 
over Apple's. And now with our high tech double 
sided heads, our Elite Two and Three offers you two 
to four times more storage than Apple's. That's 
really taking a byte out of the competition. 

We put our heads together 
to give you a superior disk drive. 

We designed the Elite Three to give you near 
hard disk capacity, with all the advantages of a 
minifloppy system. The double sided head oper- 
ates on 80 tracks per side, giving you a capacity of 
652K bytes. It would take 4 1 /2 Apples to give you 
that. And cost you three times our Elite Three's 
reasonable $849 pricetag. 



Rana's double sided heads give Apple 
II superior disk performance power 
than second generation personal com- 
puters such as IBM's. 



It takes 4'/2 Apples to equal the capacity 
of our superior Elite Three. 









The Elite Two offers an impressive 326K bytes 
and 40 tracks on each side. This drive is making a 
real hit with users who need extra storage, but 
don't require top-of-the-line capacity. Costwise, it 
takes 2 1 /2 Apple drives to equal the performance of 
our Elite Two. And twice as many diskettes. Leave it 
to Rana to produce the most cost efficient disk 
drive in the world. 

We've always had the guts to be a leader. 

Our double sided head may be an industry 
first for Apple computers, but nobody was surprised. 

@ Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 




They've come to expect it from us. Because Rana 
has always been a leader. We were the first 
with a write protect feature, increased capacity 




Your word processor stores 5 times as many pages of text on an Elite Three 
diskette as the cost ineffective Apple. 

and accurate head positioning. A first with attrac- 
tive styling, faster access time, and the conve- 
nience of storing a lot more pages on far fewer 
diskettes. We were first to bring high technology to 
a higher level of quality. 

So ask for an Elite One, Two, or Three. 
Because when it comes to disk drives, nobody 
uses their head like Rana. 



RanaSystems 





20620 South Leapwood Avenue, Carson, CA 90746 213-538-2353. For dealer information call 
toll free: 1-800-421-2207 In California only call: 1-800-262-1221 Source Number: TCT-654 

Circle 347 on inquiry card. 

Available at all participating Computerland stores and other fine computer dealers. 



Ciarcia s Circuit Cellar 



Build the RTC-4 Real-Time 

Controller 

A 4-bit single-chip microcomputer from Texas Instruments 
comes preprogrammed for timed automatic control. 



Bee-beep . . . bee-beep . . . bee- 
beep. I fumbled for the alarm button 
on my digital watch and briefly 
wondered what I had set it for. 

"Oh yeah. Time to turn on the 
recorder." 

The audio-cassette recorder in 
question was set up in one corner of 
the Circuit Cellar and connected to an 
FM radio. 1 had set it up to record a 
local news program, which is broad- 
cast daily at 5:30 p.m. in my area. 
Because 5:30 is not usually a conve- 
nient time for me to listen to the 
radio, I often record the program so 
that I can listen to it later in the even- 
ing or the next day while I'm driving 
someplace. 

So it was 5:28. Time to turn on the 
recorder. The trouble was I was out- 
side working on my satellite dish 
antenna. As I dashed into the house 
and down the stairs, I thought, 
'There's got to be a better way to do 
this." 

Once the recording was safely 
under way, I began to consider 
various automatic methods. I could 
use a mechanical timer, a simple 
digital alarm clock (with appropriate 
Circuit Cellar modifications), a BSR 
X-10 Home Control System timer, or 
my existing home-security and con- 
Copyright © 1983 Steven A. Ciarcia. 
All rights reserved. 



by Steve Ciarcia 

trol system. None of these seemed 
completely satisfactory. Instead, I 
decided to look for a more universal 
solution. 

The problem of timed activation 
pointed out the need for a general- 
ized, cost-effective timer/controller 
that might, while solving my par- 
ticular problem, have additional 
capabilities. As I was evaluating 
various circuits for real-time con- 
trollers, I came across some prepro- 
grammed TMSlOOO-series 4-bit 
microcomputers-on-a-chip from 
Texas Instruments. One of these chips 
became the essential element in this 
month's project, the Circuit Cellar 
RTC-4 real-time controller. 

The RTC-4 is a four-channel time- 
activated device or appliance con- 
troller that can be built for less than 
$100, complete with keypad, display, 
power supply, and relay outputs. It 
can be used in the home or laboratory 
for general time-dependent applica- 
tions or, as in my case, to solve one 
particularly nagging problem. 

Before jumping into how to build 
the RTC-4, let's take a look at the 
TMS1000 family tree and the par- 
ticular branch of use in our project. 

The TMS1000 Family 

Texas Instruments (TI) makes a 
large family of single-chip MOS/LSI 
(metal-oxide semiconductor /large- 



scale integration) components called 
the TMS1000 series, which all contain 
4-bit microprocessors. While the ap- 
proximately 50 members of the 
family share a common subset of 
about 40 instructions, they differ in 
the varying amounts of read-only 
memory (ROM) and random-access 
read/write memory (RAM), and 
varying numbers of I/O- (input/out- 
put) control circuits. The family's 
members also differ in packaging and 
power requirements, but, in the 
28-pin dual-inline package, the basic 
TMS1000 and TMS1100 are virtually 
the same with the exception of inter- 
nal memory capacity. TI intends that 
the ROM in TMSlOOO-series com- 
ponents be mask-programmed for 
specific computing tasks; the devices 
are not general-purpose micropro- 
cessors, as are the familiar Z80, 6502, 
and 8088. 

One major member of the product 
line is the TMS1100. This chip has 
2048 bytes of internal ROM, 128 4-bit 
words (nybbles) of RAM, 4 input 
lines, and 19 output lines. (The basic 
TMS1000 contains less memory.) 
Figure 1 is a block diagram of its in- 
ternal structure. 

TMS1121C UTC 

Somewhere on the 1100 branch of 
the TMS1000 family tree is an off- 
shoot called the TMS1121C Universal 



26 July 1983 © BYTE Publicatioiu Inc 



►^ ►=< 



w^ >^ >~< w >~< 






I;*; «' .«• »^ 

• • • • 



I* ,»:■»■ »,'*'_'• 



|| X -I I 



< I 



IJ 7525 | 

'I I 






,; , ■■■. ■ , - . , - 



!'«! 



N 



0(Jg) 



® (S ^ 






Wk 




jnoiAS j *»i>U 



■ if ■ J 



ill -IJ 

•.I" I 



i 



o o v ' > i '■ ' -■ £> 
o 1 

i. O O .. '. c 



S3NIddI1IHd 

iei8 saaj 

1StN-DI2IISWX * 



^m-w •; _, ,) :; (., ,;, :, f) <;. , ..... Q p O 
O ■«' ' .' "■ ■ ■■ o b C ifcO O O C O Q.<j>.<j O u JO 





• • • 4 

• • • 1 


id- ! M ' 


ftfi 

• 

• * * i 

ii 


>o-oo*o;..J:o 


$®s 



•ill 



. . j 



ml 



£D*H 



SAT 



ON 



1 S^ I 

1 I ■ 


1 HON 1 ] 
1 2. 


8 1 


1 9 


off m 


1 ■ SLP 






rue 



AM 



cU 



WED 



PM 






THU 



w»H 



CLK 



P<! 



Su) 



Photo 1: Prototype of the Circuit Cellar RTC-4 real-time controller, a unit suitable for switching low-current external devices 
on and off according to immediate commands or stored time-lapse event settings. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 27 



(la) 



UtL.JiUiLJiLJiL.lLlL 



ROM 

PC a CHAPTER 

DECODER 



no 

CZEO 

no 



I INIT^ 



7"> 

I 



i" 



ROM ARRAY 
16.384 BITS 
(64X8X16X2 



A> 



C8 



PROGRAM 
COUNTER 



SUBROUTINE 

RETURN 

REGISTER 



CALL 
LATCH 




RAM ARRAY 
512 BITS 
(16 X4X8) 



RAM Y 
DECODER 

<~> <!!> 



X DECODER 
1 OF 4 



E 



BRANCH ADDRESS 



I E> 
J IN 



XTERNAL 
PUTS 



INITIALIZE 



FIXED 

INSTRUCTION 

DECODER 



INSTRUCTION 
PLA 



•BR 

•CALL 

•RETN 

• COMC 
•LDP 

■ LDX 

• COMX 

■ TDO 

■ SETR 
■RSTR 

• SBIT 

• RBIT 



X REGISTER 



J\ 



4 







"1 



/ WRITE \ 
/ MUX \ 



<^S <"s 



—r\ CON! 
— Z-J K-IN 



CONSTANT 8 
PUT LOGIC 



UJ 



CKP 

• YTP 

• MTP 
ATN 

■ NATN 
MTN 
15TN 
CKN 
CIN 
NE 
C8 
STO 
CKM 
AUTA 
AUTY 
STSL 



n 



4 

^2. 



kl 



\ P MUX / \ 



kl 



<*> <~> 




N MUX 



4 



4 



7 



ADDER/COMPARATOR 



4 



I AU SELECT \ 



4 



2 



STATUS 
LOGIC 



Y REGISTER 



ACCUMULATOR 
REGISTER 



OUTPUT PLA 



M 



c 



A 



OUTPUT 
REGISTE 



r Cr 



i 



STATUS 
LATCH 



imninnrTiininsi 



Figure 1: The functional block diagram of 
the Texas Instruments TMS1100 4-bit 
single-chip microcomputers is shown in 
figure la. Figure lb shows the pinout and 
I/O specifications of the TMS1000 series . 















(lb) 












R8 [ 


,- ^ 


28 


]R7 






R9 [ 


2 


27 


] R6 


PIN NA ME DE SCRIP TION 


TYPE 


RIO [ 


3 


26 


] R5 


K1.K2.K4.K8 DATA INPUT 


INPUT 


GND [ 


TMS1000/ 


25 


] R4 


00-07 DATA OUTPUT 


LIMITED CODE OUTPUT 


4 TMS1100 


R0-R10 CONTROL OUTPUT 


OUTPUT 


Kl[ 




24 


] R3 


0SC1.0SC2 TIMING 


INPUT (RC) 






INIT POWER ON RESET 


INPUT 


l<2 [ 


6 


23 


] R2 






K*C 




22 


]R1 


TMS1000 




K8 [ 


8 


21 


] RO 


1024-BYTE ROM 




INIT [ 


9 


20 


] +9V 


64-NYBBLE RAM 




07 C 


10 


19 


] 0SC2 


TMS1100 

2048-BYTE ROM 




06 [ 


n 


18 


] 0SC1 


128-NYBBLE RAM 




05 C 


12 


17 


] 00 


(1 NYBBLE = 4 BITS, 1BYTE = 


8 BITS) 


04 [ 


13 


16 


]01 






03 C 


14 


15 


] 02 











28 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 















SW1 SUN 

SW2 MON 

SW3 TUE 

SW4 WED 

THU 

FRI 

SAT 



O O ■ o o 

U U ' U '_' 



PM I 
AM I 



ON I 

OFF 1 



SLP 



-n-TT-rr-r 



liij 



MON 
2 



TUE 
3 



in 



ji 



THU 
5 



FRI 

e 



DAY 
DISP 



SW 
DISP 



MEM 

CLP. 



AC 50/60 Hz | ]>- 



FOR 60 Hz, THE JUMPER (Jl) BETWEEN R6 AND K4 MUST 
BE CONNECTED. FOR 50 Hz. THE JUMPER MUST NOT BE 
CONNECTED. 



-\>~ 



R6 R5 R4 R3 R2 Rl 



K2 



TMS1121 



+ 9V 



£ 



+2r 

1 






X 



I I I I 

SW1 SW2 SW3 SW4 



00 
01 

02 
03 
04 
05 
06 
07 



K8 

INIT OSC OSC R7 R8 R9 RIO V DD V SS 




DRIVER 



Figure 2: Block diagram of the Circuit Cellar RTC-4 real-time controller, showing the TMS1121C 4-bit microcomputer and its 
associated user-interface components. 



Timer Controller. When I found out 
about the TMS1121C UTC, I realized 
that it was the perfect basis for the 
Circuit Cellar RTC-4 real-time con- 
troller. It is a variant of the 1100, 
designed and mask-programmed by 
Texas Instruments primarily to be a 
demonstration device for the 
TMS1000 product line. The 1121 is 
intended to provide a simple and in- 
expensive means for a prospective 
customer to become familiar with the 
workings of the 1000 series in an easi- 
ly understood application that does 
not require costly custom program- 
ming. Fortunately for us, someone at 
TI did a little thinking and produced a 
rather neat (even considering its 
limitations) real-time programmable 
controller on a single chip. 

RTC-4 Characteristics 

The RTC-4 features a variety of 
control possibilities and operating 
aids: various status displays are avail- 



able, many events can be pro- 
grammed at once, and several options 
can be set up. Part of the RTC-4's 
task is merely to operate as a digital 
clock, displaying the time of day and 
the day of the week. The capabilities 
of the RTC-4 are essentially those of 
the TMS1121. A list of the unit's fea- 
tures is shown in table 1. 

The RTC-4 contains additional cir- 
cuitry necessary to interface the chip 
to the real world. In addition to the 
TMS1121, the unit includes an LED 
(light-emitting diode) display and 
associated drivers, a 20-key keypad, 
and four output relay switches. 

The 20-key keypad enables you to 
enter instructions and data into the 
TMS1121. The instructions may be in 
the form of a stored program telling 
the RTC-4 what to do in the future, 
or they may be intended for im- 
mediate action. Using the pad, you 
can turn any of the output relays on 
or off directly without storing the 



commands in memory. Also, using 
the pad you can originate, change, in- 
spect, or delete any timer programs. 
The RTC-4 is capable of retaining 
up to 18 timer programs (on/off set- 
tings), which are entered through the 
keypad. Each of these programs can 
control one of the four output relay 
switches. The onboard output relays 
are small, low-current devices, so if 



Four independent switch outputs with 
buffer 

Display of time and day and status of 
its own switches 

As many as 18 daily or weekly pro- 
grammable setpoints 
Memory display of programmed set- 
points 

Key entry for clock set and timer set 
50-Hz or 60-Hz operation 



Table 1: Capabilities of the RTC-4, 
which are essentially identical to those 
of the TMS1121C Universal Timer 
Controller. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 29 



»• +12V SUPPLY 



L1-L4 ARE TYPE MAN74A COMMON-CATHODE 
DISPLAYS OR EQUIVALENT 



ALL LEDS ARE TYPE T1L220 OR EQUIVALENT 




HO 




Rl 


22 




R2 


23 




R3 


24 




R4 


25 




R5 


26 




Rfi 


27 



Figure 3: Schematic diagram of the RTC-4. A type-MAN74A common-cathode LED display module is specified, a type somewhat 
different from the junk-box unit used in the prototype (see text box, page 34). Please note the position of the MSD (leftmost digit) 
and the LSD (rightmost digit) when wiring the unit. 



you want to control a toaster, you'll 
need to let the onboard relay control 
a larger outboard relay, which in turn 
operates the high -current device. 

There are two kinds of timer pro- 
grams: fixed programs and interval 
programs. Fixed-time programs tog- 
gle an output switch at a specific time 
of day, while interval programs tog- 
gle an output switch when a certain 
interval of time has elapsed since the 
previous toggling of the switch. 
Fixed-time programs are retained in 
memory and repeatedly executed. In- 
terval programs are automatically 



deleted after execution. 

Each program setting toggles only 
one switch, but a special function 
exists to combine on/off operations 
into one program sequence: the SLP 
(sleep) function is used to turn a 
switch on and then off 1 hour later. 
Ill tell you more about programming 
the RTC-4 later. 

RTC-4 Hardware 

Figure 2 is a simplified block 
diagram of the RTC-4, and figure 3 is 
the schematic diagram. Most of the 
circuitry of the RTC-4 is associated 



with the keypad and display and is 
multiplexed. 

As with the other members of the 
TMS1100 group, the input lines on 
the TMS1121 are designated Kl, K2, 
K4, and K8 (after their binary 
significance), and the two sets of out- 
put lines are labeled OO through 07 
and RO through RIO. The eight O out- 
put lines are configured during the 
mask-programming of the chip such 
that only certain combinations of 
their output values are attainable. 
Rather than a full range of 256 values, 
these eight lines can be set only to a 



30 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 




12 LSD 



Jl 



X 



X 



ON I </' OFF//" SLP,,^' CLR,/" CLR . J ' CLK,/'' 



2 



mem Y 



^ 



^ 



INSTALL FOR 60 Hz 
RATION 

FOR 50 Hz) 



ZD2 
1N914 



specific subset of combinations de- 
fined by the accumulator and status 
flags. Most frequently the O lines are 
used as display drivers or status in- 
dicators. In this application, very few 
combinations of the eight O lines are 
necessary. The 11 R-series output 
lines, on the other hand, are treated 
separately; each R line can be set or 
cleared individually. 

The 00 through 07 lines are data- 
output lines used here to convey the 
mode, day, switch, and seven-seg- 
ment codes (for the display) along a 
time-multiplexed bus. Each O line is 



buffered through a type-75491 MOS- 
to-LED-segment driver. Line O0 is 
segment A, Ol is segment B, and so 
on through 06, which is segment G. 
Line 07 is called the decimal-point 
segment even though no decimal 
points are used in this application; 07 
is attached to the LED that indicates 
operation of the SLP (sleep) com- 
mand. 

Output lines RO through R6 are the 
digit-select lines. Each of the four 
numeric digits in the LED display 
module is composed of a cluster of 
seven segments; the O lines control 



Number 


Type 


+ 5V GND 


IC1 


75491 


11 4 


IC2 


75491 


11 4 


IC3 


75492 


11 4 


IC4 


75492 


11 4 


1C5 


TMS1121C 


20 4 



the segments, while each of four of 
the R lines activates a digit cluster. 
Each of the digit-select lines is buf- 
fered through a type-75492 signal- 
inverting MOS-to-LED digit driver. 
Only one digit-select line is active and 
one display group illuminated at a 
time, but by sequencing (multiplex- 
ing) through all the digits rapidly, the 
system can make all the LEDs appear 
to be illuminated simultaneously. 

The two MOS-to-LED drivers, the 
75491 and 75492, are designed to 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 31 



RO — Mode 

R1 — Tens of hours 

R2 — Hours 

R3 — Tens of minutes 

R4 — Minutes 

R5 — Day of week 

R6 — Switch 



— AM, PM, ON, 
OFF, SLP 

— 0, 1, or 9 
(error) 

— through 9 

— through 5 
and 9 (error) 

— through 9 
and colon 

— SUN, MON, 
TUE, WED, 
THU, FRI, 
SAT 

— SW1, SW2, 
SW3, SW4 



Table 2: Groups of LED status and 
numeric displays in the RTC-4, along 
with their corresponding select lines. 



drive common-cathode LED displays. 
The 4-digit numeric module is wired 
for common-cathode operation, and I 
set up the discrete LEDs in the three 
other display groups as common- 
cathode also. By impressing a logic 
high level (binary 1) on the O lines 
and logic low level (0) on one of the 
digit-select lines, the LEDs of each of 
the display groups can be lit. The 
seven display groups and their in- 
dividual select lines are shown in 
table 2. 

In addition to tunctioning as digit- 
select lines, the RO through R6 out- 
puts are used in combination with the 
K-group input lines in scanning the 
keypad matrix for user input. As each 
display group or digit cluster is 
selected in its turn by an R line, the 
same R line applies a logic 1 to a col- 
umn of three keys (or two keys on the 
R6 line). If one of these three keys is 
pressed during the application of this 
scanning signal (thereby closing the 
circuit), the signal will flow into one 
of the three K input lines. The pro- 
gram in ROM determines which key 
has been pressed by reading the K 
lines in sequence and comparing the 
combined R and K addresses. This 
procedure includes use of a 10-ms 
(millisecond) software contact-de- 
bouncing subroutine. 

The remaining four R output lines 
(R7 through RIO) are the timer out- 
puts. Buffered through some more 
sections of a 75492, these signals, in 
the case of the RTC-4, drive electro- 



mechanical relays; you could use 
solid-state relays also to control ex- 
ternal equipment. 

The rest of the RTC-4 consists of 
the power supply and timing sections. 

The TMS1121 uses a resistor and a 
capacitor in a tuned circuit, rather 
than a crystal, to set its internal clock 
frequency. This is adequate because 
the real-time-clock function is synch- 
ronized to the 60- or 50-Hz AC power 
line, and the actual processor clock 
speed is not critical. 

With the 47-picofarad/47k-ohm re- 
sistor/capacitor combination shown 
in the schematic, the clock frequency 
should be about 300 kHz. The 60- or 
50-Hz timing signal is derived from 
one side of the power-supply trans- 
former. This clock signal is made 



The RTC-4 keyboard 

has 10 dual-function 

and 10 single-function 

keys; programming 

is relatively 

straightforward. 



more square by the transistor Ql and 
applied to the K8 input line. If the fre- 
quency source is 60 Hz, then you 
should install jumper Jl (it is omitted 
for 50-Hz operation). The INIT input 
pin, connected to diode Dl and 
capacitor Cl, functions as a power- 
on reset line. 

The power supply requires a center- 
tapped (CT) step-down transformer 
that has an output between 20 and 
24 V (volts). I used a 300-mA (milli- 
ampere), 22-V CT unit (Micromint 
PITB-109), but a 450-mA, 24-V center- 
tapped transformer from Radio Shack 
(catalog number 273-1366) should also 
work. The RTC-4 cannot be battery 
powered because the power line's fre- 
quency is used for timing. The rest of 
the power-supply circuit consists of a 
standard type-7805 three-terminal 
voltage regulator configured for a 
+ 9-V output with a zener diode to 
raise its ground reference potential. 

If you don't have any 4- or 5-V 
zener diodes for this kind of circuit, I 
recommend that you use an LM317 



regulator instead. The power for the 
displays and relays need not be well 
filtered or regulated; it can be derived 
directly from the rectifier output 
when using a 22-V transformer. In the 
case of higher-voltage transformers, 
you might need to add a 7812 
regulator to keep the LED drivers 
from dissipating too much power. 

Keypad Programming 

Programming the RTC-4 is rela- 
tively straightforward. The keyboard 
has 10 dual-function and 10 single- 
function keys, as shown in table 3. 

When the RTC-4 is turned on, the 
display will automatically read Sun- 
day at 12:00 p.m. if the unit is con- 
figured for 60-Hz operation (with 
jumper Jl installed). If the RTC-4 is 
set for 50 Hz, then you must press the 
CLK key to start it. Obviously, after 
you turn it on in this fashion, the first 
thing to do is set the correct time on 
the clock. 

For instance, entering the following 
keypress commands: 

SUN, DAY, 1, 1, 2, 4, PM, CLK 

sets the clock to 11:24 p.m. Sunday 
evening. 

The pattern for setting the clock is 
always the same. The day of the week 
is registered by typing, in this case, 
the SUN and DAY keys. The SUN 
key could be interpreted as meaning 
"1", but the entry of the DAY key im- 
mediately afterward leaves no am- 
biguity, and the software can deter- 
mine your intent. (Texas Instruments 
uses the name WEEK for this key, in- 
stead of DAY, but since all entries in- 
volve a day setting, I felt that DAY 
was better than WEEK as the key 
legend.) 

After the day of the week has been 
set, you tell the computer the hour 
and minutes, and whether these are 
antemeridian or postmeridian (a.m. 
or p.m.). Once the proper day and 
time have been selected, you press the 
CLK key to start the real-time clock 
from that setting. 

Direct Switch Control 

The RTC-4 controls external de- 
vices and appliances through four 
relay-switch outputs designated SWl, 



32 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



SW2, SW3, and SW4. These switches 
can be individually turned on or off 
at specific times under program con- 
trol, or they may be directly con- 
trolled from the keypad. To directly 
turn switch 2 on and then off, the 
commands would be: 



2, SW, ON, 



2, SW, OFF 



An alternative to separate on/off 
command sequences is the SLP (sleep) 
command. The sequence: 

2, SW, SLP 

will turn switch 2 on immediately and 
then automatically off 1 hour later. 
Any of the three basic functions, SLP, 
ON, or OFF, may be specified for any 
of the four switches. But the direct 
control sequences are not stored in 
RAM. 

Fixed-Time Programs 

Fixed-time programs change the 
state of the switch when the clock 
reaches a preset time. A typical se- 
quence for entering a fixed-time pro- 
gram would be: 

3, SW, MON, DAY, 9, 0, 0, AM, ON 

This series would turn on switch 3 on 
Monday morning at 9:00 a.m. The 
first two keys, 3 and SW, indicate a 
switching function for the specific 
output channel 3. Next, you enter the 
day and time in the same manner as if 
you were setting the clock. Finally, 
you designate the action desired, ON. 

As the key sequence is entered, the 
digital readout and LED indicators 
display the program settings. The 
day, time, and program function are 
automatically stored but will con- 
tinue to be displayed until another se- 
quence is initiated. To return the 
display to the current-time digital- 
clock mode, press CLK. 

If the switch being controlled or 
day of the week differs in the next se- 
quence from the preceding setting, 
the preceding key sequence must be 
repeated in its entirety with the new 
parameters. If, however, the switch 
number and day of the week are the 
same, a shortened sequence can be 
used: 



1, 1, 4, 5, AM, OFF 

If both of the above sequences are 
entered, the combined result would 
be to activate switch 3 on Monday at 
9:00 a.m. and deactivate it at 11:45 
a.m. the same day. In the case of my 
tape recorder, I want the action to 
take place every day, so I use the 
EDAY (every day) command to turn 
the recorder on every day at 5:30 
p.m. and off at 7:00 p.m. as follows: 

1, SW, EDAY, DAY, 5. 3, 0, PM, ON 
7, 0, 0, PM, OFF 

Exceptions to this can be added as 
separate program lines. Because the 
radio program I record runs for only 
30 minutes on weekends, instead of 

You are able to 

display stored 

timer settings by 

the day or by 

the switch channel. 

Status LEDs show 

pertinent Information. 



the usual 90 minutes during the week, 
I can shut the recorder off 60 minutes 
sooner on Saturday and Sunday: 

1, SW, SAT, DAY, 6, 0, 0, PM, OFF 
1, SW, SUN, DAY, 6, 0, 0, PM, OFF 

Interval Programs 

In an interval program, the func- 
tion is performed after the specified 
time interval has passed. For exam- 
ple, in the sequence 

4, SW, 2, 3, 0, ON 

switch 4 would be turned on 2Vz 
hours after the last key in the se- 
quence is pressed. ON, OFF, and SLP 
commands can be used in interval 
programs. If SLP were substituted for 
ON in the above entry, switch 4 
would have been turned on after 2Vi 
hours and off again after 3Vi hours 
from the time of programming. The 
maximum time length for any inter- 
val is 11 hours and 59 minutes. Inter- 



Double-Function Keys 



EDAY/0 - Everyday or 

SUN/1 ■ Sunday or 1 

MON/2 - Monday or 2 

TUE/3 - Tuesday or 3 

WED/4 - Wednesday or 4 

THU/5 - Thursday or 5 

FRI/6 - Friday or 6 

SAT/ 7 - Saturday or 7 

SW/DISP - Switch or Display switch- 
program memory 

DAY/DISP - Day or Display daily- 
program memory 



Single-Function Keys 



8 - Numeric 8 

9 - Numeric 9 

AM - AM time setting 

PM - PM time setting 

ON - Switch on 

OFF - Switch off 

SLP - Sleep — switch output on 

for 1 hour then off 

CLR - Clear entry or Error 

MEM CLR - Clear Program Memory 

CLK - Set or display clock 

Table 3: Functions of keys on the 
RTC-4's keypad; some have two func- 
tions, others only one. 



val programs can also be combined in 
the same manner as the fixed-time 
programs: 

4, SW, 3, 0, ON 

3, 1, OFF 

These commands cause switch 4 to be 
activated after 30 minutes and deac- 
tivated after 31 minutes. The result is 
a 1-minute "on" time that starts 30 
minutes after command entry. 

Program Display and Errors 

Stored timer settings can be dis- 
played by the day or the switch chan- 
nel. For example: 



2, SW, SW, 



SW, SW 



would display all programs affecting 
switch 2. As each step is displayed, 
the status LEDs and numeric display 
show pertinent information such as 
the time, day, and what relays are set 
on or off. Entering 

SAT, DAY, DAY DAY, DAY 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 33 




rototype Construction Techniques 




Photo 2: Back side of the RTC-4 prototype. 



I receive at least half a dozen letters each month ask- 
ing me how I put my project prototypes together and 
wire them. This month I'll reveal a few of the techniques 
I exercised in building the RTC-4. 

To begin with, I don't recommend my techniques for 
everyone. I try to keep the circuit boards very small and 
lay the components out in an aesthetically pleasing ar- 
rangement. The results are not particularly easy to 
troubleshoot or modify. 

I use standard integrated-circuit (IC) sockets (I prefer 
the Amp brand), and I hard-wire the power-supply and 
ground bus lines around the perforated project board 
using 22-gauge tinned bus wire. These soldered power 
connections fasten the IC sockets to the board. 

Next, I insert the discrete components into the board 
and if possible directly route their leads to the ap- 
propriate pins on the IC sockets. When I absolutely 
must cross some leads, I use Teflon-insulated wire or 
sleeving. I finish by using 28- or 32-gauge wire-wrap 
wire to finish the connections, but I point-to-point 
solder them. 

This may seem tedious, but I end up with a low- 
profile package, shown in photo 2, that looks very 
much like a commercially produced unit. It took me 
about 14 hours to assemble the RTC-4 prototype. Some 
of my other projects take much longer. 

One detour I traveled during the RTC-4 project was 
the result of wanting large LED-display digits. I had 
some 0.3-inch type-MAN74A common-cathode single- 
digit display components, but I decided to adapt a 
4-digit 0. 7-inch display component I found in my junk 
box. Unfortunately, units of that type are not intended 
to be driven as multiplexed displays, and the digits are 
not wired individually. I had to disassemble and rewire 
it so that it functioned as 4 separate digits. Photos 3a 
through 3d show the process. It was so much trouble 
that I would just use the MAN74As if I were doing it 



- 



instead displays the programs for a 
particular day. You can also display 
those for every day (use ED AY ). 

Errors in command entry are in- 
dicated by the appearance of all nines 
("99:99") in the display, which can be 
cleared by the entry-clear key, CLR, 
or the program-memory-clear key, 
MEM CLR. It is possible to selectively 
clear program segments. For exam- 
ple, entering 

1, SW, MEM CLR 

would erase all programs pertaining 
to switch 1. Similarly, entering 



FRI, DAY, MEM CLR 
erases any Friday programs. 

Applications 

Obviously, one of the more prac- 
tical uses for the RTC-4 is to enhance 
your home's security by giving your 
house that lived-in look. If, for exam- 
ple, you have three lights and a stereo 
system plugged into the RTC-4, you 
could go away for weeks at a time 
and leave everything blinking on and 
off and sounding away. Because the 
RTC-4 can be programmed for se- 
quences of one week, most normal 



home activities can be simulated. It is 
certainly more cost-effective and 
reliable than other timer-controllers 
I've seen. 

A Previous Project's Woes 

Some of you might have wondered 
why I didn't use the BSR X-10 Home 
Control System timer unit, which 
performs many of the same functions. 
Besides the obvious damper of losing 
a chance to experiment with some in- 
teresting components from TI, elimi- 
nating a good article topic, I've had 
less than consistent results with the 
X-10 devices over the years. 



34 July 19*3 © BYTE Publications Inc 



1 1 IW* 



Photo 3a: This typical National Semiconductor 4-digit LED 
display (which I believe to be one of the NSB7400 series) is 
most frequently used in digital clocks. It consists of three 
parts: a plastic circuit board with LEDs bonded to the circuit 
traces, a plastic reflective digit form, and a red lens cover. 




Photo 3b: The LED display with the lens cover removed. 




Photo 3c: Because this display has one common cathode line 
for all 4 digits, I had to cut it at strategic points to isolate the 
digits. 



Photo 3d: Finally, I drilled holes and soldered wires to the in- 
dividual digit connections. 



At one time (shortly after my arti- 
cle on attaching an X-10 controller to 
a computer; see reference 1), most of 
my house was X-10-activated and 
remotely controlled. Frequently, how- 
ever, I would find that the switches 
would reset or change state arbitrari- 
ly. I attributed this to power-line 
transients or electrical noise. Even- 
tually I remedied this situation by re- 
transmitting the intended status of 
each channel once every minute (ob- 
viously a tedious task suitable only 
for a computer). 

Finally, I had a complete falling out 
with the BSR X-10 system shortly 



after a thunderstorm a few summers 
ago. While nothing else (computers, 
television sets, printers, etc.) in the 
house was affected, eleven X-10 
remote receivers were blown out all 
at once. I expected to lose a couple 
receivers now and then, but I didn't 
expect to replace all of them. And I 
learned that when a light bulb burned 
out on a lamp connected to a lamp 
module, the module was often de- 
stroyed. In later production, BSR sup- 
posedly installed heavier SCRs (sili- 
con-controlled rectifiers), but this has 
not completely eliminated the prob- 
lem. Consequently, I've switched back 



to the old reliable copper wire and 
heavy-duty relays. But if I find any 
better methods 111 be sure to let you 
know. 

A Trick Up My Sleeve 

Some of you who are audiophiles 
might have been wondering how I 
have managed to record a 90-minute 
radio program unattended, due to a 
well-known property of ordinary 
Philips-type tape cassettes. Strictly 
speaking, a 90-minute program 
should just fit on a C-90 cassette. But, 
of course, a C-90 cassette can record 
only 45 minutes on one side; people 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 35 



are accustomed to turning the tape 
over halfway through. (While there 
do exist C-180 cassettes, they are ex- 
pensive, and the thin tape doesn't 
handle the rigors of the automotive 
environment very well.) 

But luckily, when I was still record- 
ing manually, I solved this problem. 
It was hard enough for me to turn the 
recorder on at all, let alone be there at 
6:15 to turn the tape over, so after 
searching through most of the stereo 
shops in New England I eventually 
found a tape recorder that automati- 
cally reverses and records on both 
sides of the tape without turning the 
cassette over (a Pioneer CTF-750). 
Now, everything is automatic. But 
perhaps I should have taken this as an 
opportunity to build a robot. 

In Conclusion 

The RTC-4 owes its intelligence to 
the TMS1121C microcomputer chip. 
While I used it only in its off-the-shelf 
configuration, Texas Instruments 
would like you to know that there are 
other packaging and functional con- 
figurations that can be specifically 
mask-programmed for high-volume 
applications. For myself, 111 be satis- 
fied with my somewhat-automatic 
tape recorder. Of course, to regularly 
record from radio broadcasts, I had a 
chat with the program director of the 
radio station, who gave me permis- 
sion to record this particular news 
program. As an author, I'm very 
careful about copyright infringement. 

Next Month: 

Use the hidden resource of your 
electrical power wiring for data com- 
munication, using a power-line 
modem. ■ 

Acknowledgments 

Special thanks to Jeff Bachiochi for his help 
on this project. 

Diagrams pertaining to the TMSlOOO-series 
devices are reprinted here through the courtesy 
of Texas Instruments Inc. 

References 

1. Ciarcia, Steve. "Computerize a Home." 
January 1980 BYTE, page 28. Reprinted in 
Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar, Volume II, page 
137. 

2. Staehlin, David C. "An 8080-Based 
Remote Appliance Controller." January 
1982 BYTE, page 239. 



36 July 1963 © BYTE Publication toe 



About the Author 

Steve Ciarcia (pronounced "see ARE see uh") 
is an electronics engineer and computer consul- 
tant with experience in process control, digital 
design, nuclear instrumentation, product 
development, and marketing. In addition to 
writing for BYTE magazine, he has published 
several books, including Build Your Own Z80 
Computer (BYTE Books, 1981). His mailing 
address is POB 582, Glastonbury, CT 06033. 

Editor's Note: Steve often refers to previ- 
ous Circuit Cellar articles as reference 
material for each month's current article. 
Most of the past articles are available in 
reprint books from BYTE Books, McGraw- 
Hill Book Company, POB 400, Hights- 
tovm, NJ 08520. 

Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar, Volume I con- 
tains the articles that appeared in BYTE 
from September 1977 through November 
1978. Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar, Volume II 
contains the articles from December 1978 
through June 1980. Ciarcia's Circuit 
Cellar, Volume III contains the articles 
that were published from July 1980 
through December 1981. 



The following items are available from 

The Micromint Inc. 

561 Willow Ave. 

Cedarhurst, NY 11516 

(516) 374-6793 (for information) 

(800) 645-3479 (for orders) 

1. Texas Instruments TMS1121C 
Universal Timer Controller (pre- 
programmed 4-bit single-chip 
microcomputer) ... .$24 

2. Complete kit for the RTC-4 real- 
time controller. All necessary com- 
ponents provided, including solder- 
masked and silk-screened printed- 
circuit board, a TMS1121C, an 
MAN74A LED display, 20 push- 
button switches (Panasonic or 
equivalent), power supply, four 
2-ampere 115-VAC relays, and 
assembly instructions.. $90 

3. Assembled and tested RTC-4 real- 
time controller. . . — $119 

On all orders within the continental 
United States, please include $3 for 
shipping and handling. Elsewhere, 
please include $20. New York residents 
please add 7Vz percent sales tax. 




Now Attractive 
Industrial Quality 

Mainframes 
Enclosures as low as 
$200 

Dual LED Display 
Shock Mounted 6 Slot 

Motherboard/Card Cage 
PS-lOl Power Supply 
Power & Reset Switches, A/C Filter. 

Fan, Etc. 




SDS-SIOO-SL 

8" Floppy Drive Enclosure /System 
Special Lift Out Drive Rack 
Fits all Regular and Slim-Line 8" Drives 
Also Will Support 5-1/4" Hard Disk 




SDS-SIOO-MFL 

5-1/4" Floppy and/or Hard Drive 
Enclosure / System 




SDS-MF2 SDS-MIC 

12 Slot SlOO Computer Chassis or 
8" Hard Disk Cabinet 



tjyftfl 



PS-lOl Power Supply 

This solid supply gives you the 
capability ot running any variety of 
8" floppy or 5-1/4" floppy or hard disk 
drive as well as provides power for a 
full SlOO-Buss Motherboard. 



Regulated: 

8V @ 8 amp 

+5V @ 5 amp 

+ 12V @ 5 amp 

+ 24V @ 5 amp 

-5 or -12V @ lamp 



Unregulated 
+ 16V @ 1 amp 
-16V @ lamp 



SIERRA DATA SCIENCES 

Fresno. California/ 
Product Support Division 
25700 First Street, Westlake, Ohio 44145 
(216) 892-1800 TELEX: 980131 WDMR 



Circle 368 on Inquiry card. 



BS ffl B2 P|1*P^\ ' \ ::\ 









On the Threshold 
of 8-Bit Hyperspeed 




At 8MHz, Sierra Data 
Sciences' new Z80 single- 
board computers are the 
first — and the fastest- 
microcomputers in their 
class. 

Under CP/M™ they perform like single 
user minis. Teamed with networking 
TurboDOS™ their 16-bit-buss-transfers 
amaze the demanding 16-bit multiuser 
world. And at Sierra Data's production- 
oriented price, they bring an ever- 
expanding universe of CP/M compatible 
software into a whole new realm of price/ 
performance reality 

Solve your need for speed. Only a reliable 
manufacturer with Sierra Data's undisput- 
ed technical lead and established reputa- 
tion for support can deliver these fea- 
tures—all on board our new slave/ 
satellite single-board computers: 



m Pr 



SIERRA DATA SCIENCES 

Fresno, California/ 

Product Support Division 

25700 First St., Westlake, Ohio 44145 

(216) 892-1800 TELEX: 980131 WDMR 



• Meets IEEE 696/S-lOO 
Standards • Z80H (8MHz) 
Z80B (6MHz), or Z80A 
(4MHz), • 64K/128KV 
256KV512K* bank-select- 
able RAM in 4K incre- 
ments • High speed integer or Floating- 
point math chip* • 2 Serial ports • 2 
Parallel ports • 4 Counter timers • 4K 
CMOS cache buffer, buss addressable in 
16-bit or 8-bit increments • 4K/8K/16K 
EPROM • Operates under Sierra Data sup- 
ported CP/M 2.2**, CP/M 3.0** and 
TurboDOS 1.2** 

Make Sierra Data the heart of your ad- 
vanced system or 
discover one of ■,, . 

Sierra Data's cost- „**■* *-. fit f ' 
effective, turnkey 'r^-'f' 
systems. Sierra W •** ,/ ■ • / 

Data's single or ^'f^V, **^- 
multiuser 20M c^V * ** 

byte hard disk 
system with 8 inch 
slimline floppy-disk backup is shown 
above. Other popular configurations are 
shown on the previous page. Ask for Sierra 
Data's product catalog today 

'Optional 
• ' TurboDOS is a Registered Trademark of Software 2000 Inc 
' ' CPM is a Registered Trademark of Digital Research 



If you can beat these prices, 
you must have a brother-in-law 
in the business. 



16KRAM KITS 13.95 

Set ot 8 NEC 41 16 200 ns Guaranteed one year 
FOR IBM-PC. set of 9 ...... 15 75 



DISKETTES 

ALPHA DISKS 21.95 

Single sided, certified Double Density 40 Tracks, 
with Hub-ring Box ot 10 Guaranteed one year 

SCOTCH 3M 

S S D DEN 40 TRK 23.50 

D S D DEN 40 TRK 36 50 

8 DISKS IN STOCK CALL 

VERBATIM DATALIFE 

MD 525-01 10. 16 26.50 

MD 550-01. 10. 16 44 50 

MD 557-01. 10. 16 45.60 

MD 577-01 10. 16 34.80 

FD 32 or 34-9000 36 00 

FD 32 or 34-8000 45 60 

FD 34-4001 48.60 

DISKETTE STORAGE 

5% " PLASTIC LIBRARY CASE 2.50 

8 - PLASTIC LIBRARY CASE 3 50 

PLASTIC STORAGE BINDER w/ Inserts . 9 95 
PROTECTOR 5%' (50 Disk Capacity! .21.95 
PROTECTOR 8' (50 Disk Capacity) .. 24 95 

DISK BANK 5%" 5.95 

DISK BANK 8" 6 95 

NEC ADVANCED 
PERSONAL COMPUTER 

Call Alpha Byte for our low NEC prices 

ALTOS COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS 

Call Alpha Byte for our low Alios prices 



ATARI 



See Apple & Atari Sottware 

SIGNALMAN MODEM . .85.00 

IN-HOME KEYBOARD ATARI 400 ... 107,00 

EPSON CABLE 35.00 

QIX 35.00 

BANK STREET WRITER 55.50 

PADDLE CONTROLLERS, limited qty 10.00 

STAR RAIDERS 32.00 

DONKEY KONG $CALL 

GALAXIAN 32.00 

DEFENDER 32.00 

PACMAN 32.00 

CENTIPEDE 32.00 

TAX ADVANTAGE 38.97 

FILE MANAGER 800 79.16 

VISICALC 179 00 

HOME ACCOUNTANT! 59.97 

WO TRACKBALL 59.00 

INTEC PERIPHERALS 
RAM MODULES 

48K FOR ATARI 400 145.00 

32K FOR ATARI 800 67.00 

PRINTERS 

STAR MICRONICS GEMINI 10 $CALL 

STAR MICRONICS GEMINI 15 $CALL 

RIBBONS FOR MX-80 8.95 

RIBBONS FOR MX-100 24.00 

C-ITOH F-10 40 CPS PARALLEL 1390.00 



C-ITOH F-10 40 CPS SERIAL 1390.00 

C-ITOH F-10 55 CPS PARALLEL 1639.00 

C-ITOH F-10 55 CPS SERIAL 163900 

C-ITOH PROWRITER PARALLEL 410.00 

C-ITOH PROWRITER SERIAL 590.00 

C-ITOH PROWRITER II PARALLEL 715.00 

C-ITOH PROWRITER II SERIAL 767.00 

EPSON MX-80 W/GRAFTRAX PLUS SCALL 

NEW! EPSON FX-80 JCALL 

EPSON MX-100 W/GRAFTRAX PLUS .JCALL 

EPSON GRAFTRAX PLUS 60.00 

BMC PB101 PAR 730.00 

COMREX CR-1 SERIAL 829.00 

COMREX TRACTOR FEED 109.00 

NEC 8023A 465.00 

NEC SPINWRITER 3530 P. RO 1995.00 

OKIDATA MICROLINE 82A 460.00 

OKIDATA MICROLINE 83A 700.00 

OKIDATA MICROLINE 84 1170.00 

OKIDATA 92 SCALL 

OKIDATA 93 SCALL 

OKIGRAPH 82 49.95 

OKIGRAPH 83 49.95 

MICROBUFFER IN-LINE 32K 299.00 

MICROBUFFER IN-LINE 64K 349.00 

MICROBUFFER 64K EXPANSION MOD. 179 00 



BOOKS 



THE CUSTOM APPLE 24.95 

BASIC BETTER S FASTER DEMO DISK. 18.00 

THE CUSTOM TRS-80 24.95 

MICROSOFT BASIC FASTER & BETTER. .24, 95 

CUSTOM I/O MACHINE LANGUAGE 24,95 

TRS-80 DISK & MYSTERIES 16.95 

MICROSOFT BASIC & DECODED 24.95 

Tab Books in Slock Call For Titles. 

APPLE HARDWARE 

QUENTIN APPLEMATE DRIVE 258.00 

SUPER CLOCK II 129.00 

VERSA WRITER DIGITIZER 259.00 

ABT APPLE KEYPAD 119.00 

MICROSOFT Z-80 SOFTCARD 249.00 

MICROSOFT RAMCARD 79.00 

VIDEX ULTRATERM SCALL 

VIDEX 80x24 VIDEO CARD 260.00 

VIDEX KEYBOARD ENHANCER II 129.00 

VIDEX FUNCTION STRIP 74.00 

M & R SUPERTERM 80x24 VIDEO BD. 315.00 

M & R COOLING FAN 44.95 

MSB UNIVERSAL MOD 54.95 

T/G JOYSTICK 44.95 

T/G PADDLE 29.95 

T/G SELECT-A-PORT 54.95 

T/G TRACKBALL 47.50 

KRAFT JOYSTICK 48.00 

VERSA E-Z PORT 21.95 

THE MILL-PASCAL SPEED UP 270 00 

PROMETHEUS VERSACARD 165.00 

MICROBUFFER lit 16K W/GRAPHICS. .259.00 
MICROBUFFER lit 32K W/GRAPHICS. ..299. 00 

SUPERFAN II 62.00 

SUPERFAN II W/ZENER 84.50 

RANA CONTROLLER 104.00 

SNAPSHOT 119.00 

GRAPPLER+ 145.00 

7710A ASYNCHRON. SER INTERFACE. 149 00 
7712A SYNCHRON. SER. INTERFACE. ..159. 00 

7742A CALENDAR CLOCK 99.00 

7728A CENTRONICS INTERFACE 105.00 

VISTA VISION 80-80 COL CARD 259.00 

VISTA 8" DISK DRIVE CONTROLLER 549.00 



MONITORS 



NEC 12" COLOR MONITOR 399.00 

BMC GREEN MONITOR 89.00 

AMDEK COLOR 1 350 00 

AMDEK RGB COLOR II 774.00 

AMDEK RGB INTERFACE 169.00 

TAXAN RGB 1 359.00 

TAXAN 12" AMBER 125.00 

MOUNTAIN 
HARDWARE 

CPS MULTIFUNCTION BOARD 130.50 

ROMPLUS W/ KEYBOARD FILTER 165.00 

ROMPLUS W/O KEYBOARO FILTER 125.00 

KEYBOARD FILTER ROM 49.00 

COPYROM 49.00 

MUSIC SYSTEM 369.00 

ROMWRITER 149.00 

EXPANSION CHASSIS 580.00 

RAMPLUS 32K 160.00 

S-100 HARDWARE 

CALIFORNIA 
COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

2200A MAINFRAME 459.00 

2065C 64K DYNAMIC RAM 539.00 

2422 DISK CONT. & CP/M-* 359.00 

2710 4 SERIAL I/O 279 00 

2719 2 SERIAL / 2 PARALLEL I/O 289.00 

2720 4 PARLLEL I/O 219.00 

2810 Z-80 CPU 259.00 

CALSTAR COMPUTER 

w/ PERFECT SPELLER. WRITER 3020 00 



MODEMS 



NOVATION J-CAT 125.00 

NOVATION SMARTCAT 212 499.00 

NOVATION SMARTCAT 209.00 

NOVATION AUTO-CAT (1200 Baud) 619.00 

NOVATION APPLE-CAT (300 Baud) 310.00 

NOVATION APPLE-CAT (1200 Baud)... .605.00 

UDS 212 LP (1200 Baud) 429.00 

UDS 103 JLP AUTO ANS 209.00 

HAYES MICROMODEM II 289.00 

MICROMODEM W/ TERMINAL PKG. 309.00 

HAYES 100 MODEM (S-100) 325.00 

HAYES SMART MODEM (300 Baud). ...227.00 
HAYES SMART MODEM (1200 Baud).. 540.00 

HAYES CHRONOGRAPH 199.00 

SIGNALMAN MODEM W /RS-232C 85.00 



TERMINALS 



USI AMBER 9" 145.00 

USI AMBER 12" 160.00 

NEC 12" GREEN MONITOR 169.00 



HAZELTINE ESPRIT 1 510.00 

VISUAL-50 GREEN 690 00 

TELEVIDEO 910 630.00 

HAZELTINE ESPIRIT II 610.00 

TRS-80 MOD I 
HARDWARE 

PERCOM DATA SEPARATOR 27.00 

PERCOM DOUBLER II W /DOS 3.4 159.00 

4 DRIVE CONTROLLER P/S 259.00 

TANDON 40 TRK DISK DRIVE W/P.S. 289 00 
LNW 5/8 DOUBLER W/DOSPLUS 3. 4. .181. 00 

LNW EXPANSION INTERFACE 350.00 

LNW 80 MOD II w/ CP/M SCALL 

IBM HARDWARE 

SEATTLE 64K RAM + 355.00 

OUADBOARD 64K 338 00 

64K MEMORY UPGRADE 80.00 

APPARAT COMBO BOARD 175 00 

AST CALL 



MICROSOFT 64K 278.00 

MONTE CARLO MULTIFUNCTION w/ 64K.. 468.75 
PLANTRONICS COLORPLUS GRAPHICS BOARD 

w/ DRAFTSMAN 475.00 

T/G JOYSTICK 47.95 

T/G TRACKBALL 47 95 

HERCULES GRAPHICS CARD 546.00 

TECHMAR 5 MB HARD DRIVE 2394.00 

CORONA 5 MB WINCHESTER 1790 00 

KRAFT JOYSTICK 48.00 

Davong Systems. Inc. Call for prices and stock. 

ALPHA BYTE IBM MEMORY 
EXPANSION BOARDS 

256K W /RS-232C 349.00 

256K W /RS-232C & SUPERCALC 2... 507 00 

512K W /RS-232C 579.00 

512K W /RS-232C 8, SUPERCALC 2 ...727.00 

IBM DISK DRIVES 

Alpha Byte's add-on drive kits for the IBM-PC — 
each kit includes installation instructions. 
Tandon TM10O-1 Single head 40 Irk 195 00 
Tandon TM10O-2 Double head 40 trk.. 262.50 
Tandon TM55-2 '/2 Height 262.50 

ISOLATORS 

ISO-1 3-SOCKET 49.95 

ISO-2 6-S0CKET 49 95 

6 SOCKET SWITCHED 34.95 

BARE DRIVES 

TANDON 5V4 INCH 

100-1 SINGLE HEAD 40 TRK 195 00 

100-2 DUAL HEAD 40 TRK 262.50 

100-3 SINGLE HEAD 80 TRK 250.00 

100-4 DUAL HEAD 80 TRK 369.00 

TANDON THINLINE 8 INCH 

848-1 SINGLE SIDE 379.00 

848 2 DUAL SIDE 490.00 

IBM SOFTWARE 

LOTUS 1.2.3 380 00 

INFOSTAR 279 00 

VCLKSWRITER V 1.2 145.00 

WRITE ON 90.00 

EASYWRITER II 247.00 

EASY SPELLER 149.00 

EASY FILE 28500 

HOME ACCOUNTANT+ 105.00 

FIRST CLASS MAIL 85.00 

WORDSTAR 279.00 

MAILMERGE 174.00 

SPELLSTAR 1 74 00 

d BASE II 429 00 

THE WORD PLUS 117.00 

TIM. Ill 379.00 

JFORMAT 39.00 

MOVE IT 109.00 

VISICALC / 256K 189 00 

VISITREND / VISIPLOT 235.00 

VISIDEX 192.00 

VISIFILE 249.00 

VISISCHEDULE 229 00 

VERSA WRITER GRAPHICS TABLETS 270 00 

VERSAFORM 312.00 

CONCURRENT CP/M 1 86 315.00 

CP/M 86 DIGITAL RESEARCH 60 00 

GRAPHICS HARD COPY SYSTEM 19.50 



PFS 
PFS 
PFS 



FILE 97 50 

GRAPH 97.50 

REPORT 97.50 

388.70 



BENCHMARK 

Call for additional IBM software prices 



Circle 16 on Inquiry card. 



CP/M is a reg. trademark of Digital Research. 'Requires Z-80 Softcard. tReg. trademark of Micro Pro International Corp. ^Trademark of Practical Peripherals. Inc. "Trademark ot Software Dimensions. Inc. 



MICRO PRO 

APPLE CP/M® 

WORDSTARS 279 00 

SUPERSORT't 179.00 

MAILMERGft 174.00 

DATASTAR't 20700 

SPELLSTAR*t 174.00 

CALCSTAR't 10900 

MICROSOFT 

APPLE 

FORTRAN - 150.00 

BASIC COMPILER" 299 00 

COBOL" 550.00 

Z-80 S0FTCARD 249 00 

RAMCARD 79.00 

TYPING TUTOR II 16.50 

OLYMPIC DECATHLON 24.95 

TASC APPLESOFT COMPILER 125 00 

ALDS 95 00 



IBM GAME SOFTWARE 

ZORK I. II. Ill 2800 

STARCROSS 28.00 

DEADLINE 35 00 

GALAXY 19.50 

MIDWAY CAMPAIGN 17.00 

THE WARP FACTOR 31,16 

LOST COLONY 23.36 

CONQUEST 23.36 

GALACTIC ATTACK 25.00 

APPLE PANIC 23.61 

TEMPLE OF ASPHAI 34.95 

CROSSFIRE 24.95 

FROGGER 27.26 

II you don't see the software you wanl. call. Our 
software stock is constantly expanding 

APPLE SOFTWARE 

HOWARD SOFT TAX PREP 189.00 

MAGIC WINDOW II 117.00 

MAGIC WINDOW 79.00 

MAGIC WORDS 59 00 

MAGIC MAILER 59.00 

DB MASTER 169.00 

DB MASTER UTILITY PACK I OR II 69.00 

DATA CAPTURE 4.0/80 COLUMN 59.95 

PFS: GRAPH 89.95 

PFS (NEW) PERSONAL FILING SYSTEM. 85. 00 



PFS' REPORT 


...79.00 


Z-TERM" 


...8995 


Z-TERM PRO" 


129.95 


ASCII EXPRESS PRO 


... 98.00 


BANK STREET WRITER 


55 50 


EASY WRITER-PRO 


136 00 


EASY MAILER-PRO 


.117.00 


BEAGLE BROTHERS UTILITY CITY . 


. .23.00 


APPLE MECHANIC 


23.00 


TIP DESK #1 


15 95 


BEAGLE BAG 


23.00 


SUPER TEXT PRO 


97 50 


LISA 2.5 


59.95 


TRANSCEND II 


11500 


SCREENWRITER II 


99.00 


DICTIONARY 


79.00 


GENERAL MANAGER 


.179.00 



CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

G/L.A/R.A/P.PAYROLL Each 165.00 

PROPERTY MGMT 325.00 

THE HOME ACCOUNTANT 59.95 

F.CM w/torm letter 75 00 

VISICORP 

DESKTOP PLAN II 189.00 

VISIPLOT 158.00 

VISITREND/VISIPLOT 229.00 

VISIDEX 18900 

VISITERM 79.00 

VISICALC 189 00 

VISIFILES 1 89. 00 

VISISCHEDULE 229 00 

CP/M® SOFTWARE 

We carry CP/M" software in all popular disk 
formats — Norttistar. Televideo, and Heath/Zenith 
formatted programs in stock 1 Call for availability 
and price Most software also available on IBM 

THE WORD PLUS 117.00 

d BASE II 429.00 



OUICKCODE 230.00 

DUTIL 91.00 

SUPERCALC 2 168.00 

SPELLGUARD 230.00 

P8.TCP/M- MOD 2 & 16 TRS-80... 193.50 

PASCAL Z 349.00 

PASCAL/M Z-80 OR 8080 295.00 

DIGITAL RESEARCH 

MAC 82.00 

ZSID 92.00 



APPLE & ATARI GAMES 

A.E 23.72 

ARCADE MACHINE 44.38 

CASTLE WOLFENSTEIN 23.50 

SEA FOX , 24.00 

ZAXXON 31.16 

BRODERBUND 

APPLE PANIC 23.61 

MIDNIGHT MAGIC 27.26 

CHOPLIFTER 27.20 



This Month's Specials: 



APPLE lie 

MICROSOFT CP/M. 
PFS: FILE. REPORT. 



,0 COLUMN. 64K RAM 362.50 

GRAPH each 97.50 



APPLE 11 + 

MICROSOFT PREMIUM PAK. CP/M. 16K RAM. 

VIDEX 80 CLM WITH SOFTSWITCH 496.95 

APPLE 11+ AND Me COMPATIBLE 

MULTIPLAN 40 & 80 COLUMN OR CP/M 199.00 

MICROSOFT MULTI-TOOLS FOR MULTIPLAN $CALL 

RANA ELITE 1 PLUS DISK DRIVE W/CONTROLLER & SOFTWARE 399.00 

MOUNTAIN HARDWARE CPS CLOCK, PARALLEL. SERIAL CARD 130.50 

SUPERCALC 2 NEW SPREAD SHEET FROM SORCIM 168.00 

EPS KEYBOARD W/KEYPAD & FUNCTION KEYS ROM PACS AVAIL 360.00 

TEAC HALF HEIGHT DRIVE 310.00 

IBM 

SUPERCALC 2 NEW SPREADSHEET FROM SORCIM 168.00 

QUADRAM OUADUNK SCALL 

MULTIPLAN MS DOS 199.00 

1983 TAX PREPARER HOWARD SOFT 199.00 

WIZARDRY 47.76 

MICROSOFT FLIGHT SIMULATOR 38.95 

CP/M 86 DIGITAL RESEARCH 60.00 

MONTE CARLO MULTIFUNCTION CARD 64K 468.75 

JOYSTICK ADAPTOR 18.95 

PLANTRONICS COLOR PLUS W/DRAFTSMAN 475.00 

LOTUS 1.2.3 DATABASE. WORDPROCESSOR, & SPREADSHEET 380.00 

•EACH MONTH WE WILL OFFER SPECIALS 

PLEASE WATCH THIS BOX FOR NEW & EXCITING PRODUCTS 





429 00 




439.00 


C BASIC 2 


109 00 



SUPERSOFT 

DIAGNOSTIC II 89.00 

■COMPILER 179.00 

RATFOR 89.00 

FORTRAN 239 00 

DISK DOCTOR 78.00 

MICROPRO 

WORDSTAR 279.00 

SUPERSORT 179.00 

MAILMERGE 174.00 

DATASTAR 207.00 

SPELLSTAR 174.00 

CALCSTAR 109.00 

MICROSOFT 

MULTIPLAN 199 00 

BASIC 80 249.00 

BASIC COMPILER 299 00 

FORTRAN 80 359.00 

COBOL 80 550 00 

MACRO 80 156.00 

mu MATH/mu SIMP 200.00 

mu LISP/mu STAR 165.00 

TRS-80 GAMES 

Specify MOD I or III 

DEADLINE 38.00 

STARCROSS 31.16 

FROGGER 16.45 

FLITE SIMULATOR 28.31 

Call for more TRS-80 games. 

TRS-80 SOFTWARE 

NEWDOS/80 2.0 MOD I. Ill 139.00 

LAZY WRITER MOD I. II 165.00 

PROSOFT NEWSCRIPT MOD I. Ill w/labels1 0900 

SPECIAL DELIVERY MOD I. Ill 119.00 

X-TRA SPECIAL DELIVERY MOD I. Ill .199 00 

TRACKCESS MOD 1 24.95 

OMNITERM SMART TERM. MOD I. Ill 89.95 

MICROSOFT BASIC COMP FOR MOD I .165.00 
LDOS 5.1 MOD I. Ill 11900 



AUTOMATED SIMULATIONS 

INVASION ORION 20.95 

STAR WARRIOR 31.35 

CRUSH. CRUMBLE AND CHOMP 24.95 

TEMPLE OF APSHAI 31.35 

HELLFIRE WARRIOR 31.35 

RESCUE AT RIGEL 23.36 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS 

WIZARD AND PRINCESS 27.26 

SOFT PORN ADVENTURE 23.36 

THRESHOLD 31.16 

JAW BREAKER 23.36 

CROSSFIRE 24.95 

ULYSSES & GOLDEN FLEECE 25.95 

ULTIMA II 42.00 

FROGGER 24.50 

INFOCOM 

ZORK I. II. Ill 28.00 

STARCROSS 28.00 

DEADLINE 35.00 

EDU-WARE 

COMPU-REAO 24.95 

COMPU-MATH FRACTIONS 34.95 

COMPU-MATH DECIMALS 34.95 

MORE GREAT APPLE 
GAMES 

DARK CRYSTAL 

TUBEWAY 

TUES. MORNING QUARTERBACK 
THE SPACE VIKINGS 



IPUTER 
PRODUCTS 

31245 LA BAYA DRIVE 
WESTLAKE VILLAGE, CA 91362 

•For all your computer pro- 
duct needs, come visit us at 
our new California store. 

Circle 16 on Inquiry card. 

Satisfaction Assurance — Your satisfaction is assured by our 30 day moneyback guarantee on all hardware products we sell. No refunds after 30 days All manufacturers' warranties are honored by manufacturers Defective 
software will be replaced free during the first 30 days, however, no refunds or exchanges on software. Proof of purchase reguired. All returns must be authorized in advance How To Order — All orders must be paid prior 
to shipment Order by phone or by mail. Use Visa, M/C. check or COD. COD limit $300. Shipping charges: Visa. M/C orders = actual shipping costs Prepaid orders add $3 (under 25lbs.) or $6 (over 25lbs.) OOU s use 
prepaid rates and add $4 surcharge Foreign, FPO and APO orders add 15% of order total. Calif, orders add 6% sales tax, L.A. County add 6</i% sales tax. Prices guoted are subject to product availability and may change without notice. 



.31.61 
.27.26 
.25.95 
..38.50 

COMPUTER QUARTERBACK 31.16 

THE SHATTERED ALLIANCE 49.95 

POOL 1.5 27.26 

ULTIMA 31.16 

RASTER BLASTER 23.36 

FLIGHT SIMULATOR 26.61 

INTERNATIONAL GRAND PRIX 25.95 

SARGON II 28.95 

MASK OF THE SUN 31.16 

PINBALL SUBLOGIC 24,50 

SNACK ATTACK 23.36 

BUDGECO PINBALL CONST SET 31.61 

THIEF 24.95 

THE WARP FACTOR 31.16 

COSMO MISSION 23.36 

WIZARDRY 37.95 



NIGHT OF DIAMONDS... 27.26 

STARBLAZER 24.95 

CRISIS MOUNTAIN 26.32 

EVOLUTION 33.80 

SIRIUS SOFTWARE 

SPACE EGGS 23,36 

GORGON 31.16 

SNEAKERS 23.36 

PHANTOMS FIVE 22.00 

BANDITS 25.00 

EDU-WARE 

PERCEPTION PKG 19.95 

COMPU-MATH: ARITHMETIC 39.95 

COMPU-SPELL (REQ. DATA DISK) 24.95 

COMPU-SPELL DATA DISKS 4-8. ea 17.95 

RENDEZVOUS 28.50 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS 

MISSILE DEFENSE 27.26 

LUNAR LEEPER 23.36 

TIME ZONE 77.96 

CRANSTON MANOR 25.95 

CANNON BALL BLITZ 25.95 

MUSE SOFTWARE 

ROBOT WARS 32.95 

THREE MILE ISLAND 31,61 

A.B.M 19.46 

To older or for 
information call 

In Chicago: 

(312)454-1236 

InNewYxk: 

(212)509-1923 

InLosAngetes: 

(213)706-0333 

In Dallas: 

(214)744-4251 

By Modem: 

(213)991:1604! 

^CALL OUR MODEM UNE 



FOR WEEKLY SPECIALS^ 




the World to Your Doorstep 




e a regular telephone, add a 
color television set and a small 
microcomputer, connect them and 
add some user-friendly software, 
and what you end up with is a close 
facsimile of a videotex terminal. 
Hook this terminal to a large host 
computer storing hundreds of 
frames of information and you have 
something very similar to a 
videotex system. With such a setup 
you can, among other things, ac- 
cess a wide range of information, 
make banking transactions, shop, 
send electronic greeting cards, and 
do computations, all in the comfort 
of your home or office. 

Videotex is not an entirely new 
technology but rather an enhance- 
ment of existing technologies, 
which in certain applications have 
been found to be inadequate. For 
example, television is an excellent 
way to transfer information, but it's 
unidirectional. The telephone is ex- 
cellent for two-way communication 
but it can't accommodate graphics. 
And personal computers are ex- 
cellent for processing and transmit- 
ting data, but they too are unable to 
transmit graphic information easily 
and are sometimes difficult to use. 
Videotex, a low-cost, easy-to-use, 
graphics information medium, is 
designed to serve a market that 
these other technologies cannot. 

But there have been a few prob- 
lems with videotex. In order for the 
service to be economical it must 



have a mass market. But before it 
can have a mass market it must be 
economical. This is the familiar 
chicken-and-egg dilemma: which 
must come first? 

Also, before videotex can 
become a mass-market item, it 
must have a standard way of en- 
coding graphic information. Cur- 
rently about six different videotex 
protocols are in use worldwide. 
Each has strong merits. Which one 
should be adopted? 

And what about personal com- 
puters? They tend to have good 
graphics and communications cap- 
abilities, although the various 
graphics systems do not follow any 
one standard. Will the hundreds of 
thousands of personal computer 
owners be required to purchase 
another machine to take advantage 
of videotex? Or can they use the 
system they already own and are 
familiar with? And how will this 
new technology affect the design 
of future personal computers? 



¥ ideotex poses some nontechno- 
logical problems as well. If videotex 
becomes a prominent medium, per- 
sonal information will be circulating 
in a form that is easily accessible by 
organizations that are unlikely to 
have our best interests at heart. For 
example, a purchase made from a 
videotex catalog could be moni- 



tored by a number of different par- 
ties. What rights to privacy do we 
have when we correspond elec- 
tronically? 

In another context, because 
videotex is a graphics medium, it 
will attract artists eager to explore 
its capabilities for expression. 
Videotex may offer these artists 
the opportunity to make their art- 
work interactive, allowing it to 
evolve in conjunction with the 
preferences of the viewer. What 
will this new art be like? 

The purpose of our theme articles 
is to address these and other ques- 
tions. We have an overview of 
videotex describing the various 
technologies and protocols. We 
present an article each on two of 
the more popular protocols, Prestel 
and the North American Presenta- 
tion Level Protocol Syntax 
(NAPLPS). We have an article on 
privacy, and another that examines 
how artists are using videotex as a 
medium. And we offer a commen- 
tary on how videotex and personal 
computers may affect each other. 

Someday, according to various 
videotex proponents, magazine ar- 
ticles such as these in BYTE will ap- 
pear on your home television 
screen. Until then, we invite you to 
curl up with this rather weighty col- 
lection of wood pulp and printing 
ink and enjoy. As big as BYTE is, 
it's still a lot easier to carry around 
than a TV. ... by Rich Malloy 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 41 




Science Fiction or Reality? 



It's 8:00 A.M., Monday, July 15, 
1993. For Tom Benson, it's the start 
of another work week. 

Waking up is still the hard part, but 
after that things get easier. Tom has 
coffee, prepared while he slept by a 
coffee maker controlled by his per- 
sonal computer. Later he sits down at 
his computer and simply pushes one 
of its keys to download the electronic 
mail sent to him from various other 
computers during the night. 

He reads through the mail and 
answers those messages requiring im- 
mediate responses. One includes a 
roughly drawn picture of a person on 
skis, speeding down a slope. Beside it 
are the words, "Will you make the ski 
weekend? Signed Carol." Response: 
"You bet." 

Tom remembers he has to get some 
new skis for the weekend. He calls up 
a service offering ski equipment, 



by Darby Miller 

picks out his skis, states size, model, 
and color and confirms the charge re- 
quest. A drawing of the skis even ap- 
pears on the computer screen. The 
computer tells him he can pick up the 
skis at the store or they will be sent to 
him by the next week. He gives in- 
structions to have them sent. 

Tom looks through more impor- 
tant mail. A friend George asks, 
"Should I sell such and such stock to- 
day at 452?" This requires a response, 
but Tom doesn't have the latest infor- 
mation on the stock. He logs on to his 
stock service, where he finds that that 
company may soon announce yet an- 
other update of one of its incredibly 
successful products, a move that 
should prove quite profitable. Under 
his instructions the electronic service 
automatically searches out all articles 
and information that may affect cer- 
tain stocks. He leaves a message for 



INVERTED TREE STRUCTURE 



MAIN MENU 
I. BUSINESS 
n. GAMES 



BUSINESS 

A. STOCKS 

B. BONDS 



GAMES 

A. BLACKJACK 

B. ADVENTURE 



STOCKS 



BONDS 



BLACKJACK 



ADVENTURE 



Figure 1: A simplistic representation of an inverted tree structure. This is a common 
method for providing easy access to a wide range of data pages. You proceed through a 
series of menus until you reach the desired page of information. 



George not to sell. 

Tom then switches to a newsletter 
service that provides instant coverage 
of events in his industry. Tom works 
in telecommunications, and at one 
time he had to read through several 
trade journals each day before he 
went to the office. Now his newsletter 
service can give him a brief review of 
each article, or if he wants more than 
the encapsulated information, he can 
tell his computer to display the entire 
article on the screen or print it out. 
Later, at the office. Tom logs on to 
another personal computer. Much of 
the paperwork that he previously had 
to deal with is gone now, and Tom 
has more time to think and plan, and 
more tools to help him make faster, 
more informed decisions. 

From Prediction to Reality 

In 1993, people such as our fic- 
titious Tom Benson will most likely 
continue to use the telephone and 
read magazines and newspapers, but 
much of their work and recreation 
may be planned and accomplished 
through the use of videotex, a generic 
term for computer services that dis- 
play textual and graphical informa- 
tion on remote video screens. 

Before we see this ideal picture, 
however, a great many hurdles must 
be cleared. The technology is already 
here; the marketplace, however, is 
not. Videotex, by the definition of 
those working in the field, should be 
a low-cost, easy-to-use system. At 
this time, it is neither. I'll now give an 



42 July 19M © BYTE Publicationi bic 



overall view of the industry as it is 
developing around the world, show- 
ing the types of systems available, the 
standards, and the tests that have 
been conducted or are planned for 
1983. After reading the facts, perhaps 
you'll be able to predict the future for 
yourself. 

How It Works 

On a videotex system, you select 
the information you want with the 
help of a numeric keypad resembling 
a channel selector or by using a key- 
board. You make choices from tables 
of contents (or menus) and retrieve 
screens of information (or pages) 
either by searching for keywords or 
by following an inverted tree struc- 
ture. You can use keywords to quick- 
ly display one or more pages that in- 
clude that word. Inverted tree struc- 
tures involve a series of menus, in 
which each menu choice leads to 
another menu. You move from gener- 
al menus to more specific ones until 
you reach the desired page. (See 
figure 1.) 

In the typical videotex setup, you 
would have a terminal that connects 
to a central host computer through a 
modem, which converts analog sig- 
nals coming through the telephone 
lines to digital signals that can be read 
by the videotex terminal. Another 
way to receive videotex services is 
through a cable television network. 

A decoder box that sends and re- 
ceives videotex signals can be built 
into an ordinary television set during 



manufacture or added on outside the 
television set and connected to the 
antenna terminals. 

There are actually two forms of 
graphics-based data communications. 
One-way systems, in which you only 
receive information and cannot trans- 
mit any, are called teletext; and two- 
way, or interactive, systems are 
called viewdata in Europe and 
videotex elsewhere. Sometimes two- 
way videotex is referred to as interac- 
tive videotex, but here we shall refer 
to it merely as videotex and will 
avoid using the term in the general 
sense. (See figure 2.) 

Teletext information is usually 
transmitted over the vertical blanking 



interval (VBI) of a television signal 
(the black bar visible when vertical 
hold isn't working); the data in the 
VBI can then be translated into tex- 
tual and graphics information by a 
teletext decoder. But teletext can also 
be sent on a subcarrier of an FM or 
television broadcast signal or even 
on a whole cable television channel. 
Current FCC (Federal Communications 
Commission) regulations prohibit 
using a whole broadcast channel. 

Videotex may be carried over tele- 
phone lines, cable television, or op- 
tical fiber. It can also be transmitted 
via satellite. In addition, a hybrid 
system, consisting of a one-way 
broadcast signal to a teletext receiver 



GRAPHICAL DATA 
COMMUNICATIONS 



VIDEOTEX 
(TWO-WAY) 



TELETEXT 
10NE-WAY) 



OPTICAL 
FIBER 



CABLE 
TELEVISION 



TELEPHONE 
LINES 



BROADCAST 
TELEVISION 



CABLE 
TELEVISION 



BROADCAST 
FM RADIO 



HYBRID 



Figure 2: The different videotex technologies. Videotex and teletext are two different 
ways of communicating graphics data. The term videotex usually refers to a two-way 
system where you can interact with the host computer system. In teletext, a one-way 
system, you merely select which of a limited number of pages you would like to see. 
Both teletext and videotex can use a variety of transmission methods. In a hybrid 
system, a teletext decoder can function as an interactive videotex terminal by sending 
information back to the host computer over phone lines. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publication* Inc 43 



WORLD VIDEOTEX USE 



U.S. (VIEWTRON) 



U. K. (PRESTEL) 




NETHERLANDS 



Figure 3: A pie chart showing approximately how world videotex use is divided between 
various countries. This does not include use of teletext. The data for the U.S. includes 
the proposed 5000 users in the Viewtron test in southern Florida. If the subscribers to 
such videotex-like services as Dow fones News Retrieval, CompuServe, and The Source 
were included, the U.S. portion would take up more than half the chart. 



with return communication through 
the telephone, has also been de- 
veloped. 

Different Protocols 

Videotex and teletext were born in 
the United Kingdom in the early 
1970s and have been struggling into 
adolescence ever since. In 1979, the 
British Post Office — now British Tele- 
com — began offering videotex (view- 
data) as a commercial service. 

The British version of videotex is 
called Prestel. Ceefax and Oracle are 
the British teletext services, which 
have proved to be quite popular. In 



the U.K., 800,000 television sets are 
now equipped with teletext decoders. 
British consumers, however, have 
not yet fully embraced Prestel. It has 
only 24,000 paying subscribers, most 
of whom use the system for business. 
However, at this time it is still the 
world's largest videotex service (see 
figure 3). Information providers (IPs) 
on the Prestel system include 
Barron's, American Express, and 
shipping and travel agencies. You can 
make restaurant and ticket reserva- 
tions through the system, access 
business information, order goods, 
and read various publications [see 



Graham Hudson's "Prestel: The Basis 
of an Evolving Videotex System" on 
page 60]. 

Although the Prestel service is 
basically business-oriented, certain 
consumer publications such as the 
Hearst Corporation's Family Living 
magazine have Prestel versions that 
have been successful. Family Living 
presented Harrod's Christmas cata- 
logue in 1982, displaying some of the 
famed department store's wares and 
enabling users to make purchases via 
the service. 

The Prestel format for videotex dif- 
fers from that followed by other, later 
systems developed in France, Japan, 
and Canada. It uses alphamosaic 
graphics, pictures composed of small, 
character-size blocks. The resulting 
graphics images have fairly low reso- 
lution (see photo 1). 

The original French format, called 
Antiope, developed by the French 
PTT (Post, Telephone, and Telecom- 
munications Ministry) used alphamo- 
saics but also employed dynamically 
redefinable character sets (DRCS) 
that allow the system to exchange one 
series of characters for another. 

DRCS can also be helpful in defin- 
ing separate graphics so the French 
system has a more refined look. 

Another difference between the 
British videotex technology and the 
other technologies is that the British 
use serial coding, meaning that for 
every character appearing on the 
monitor, a corresponding character is 




TRN VIEWOATA 

SEND FL0UERS 



46812310a 



TO HELP YOU WHEN ORDERING, 
PLEASE REMEMBER THE CODE 
NUMBER OF THE ITEMS YOU 
«* «i . .. 

HUB 



KEY fU. 

1 II FLOWERS AND 
FLORAL ARRANGEHENL 



2 I LOWERING K GREEN PLANTS 

3 SYMPATHY FLOWERS 

4 MESSAGES FOR CARDS 

3 TO ORDER THROUGH PRESTEL 



Photo 1: Four examples of pictures produced on the British Prestel system. (Photos courtesy of Logica/BVT Marketing.) 

44 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



sent over the transmission lines. If 
only one character is incorrectly 
transmitted, very little information is 
lost. 

The French system, on the other 
hand, uses a parallel-coding tech- 
nique with asynchronous transmis- 
sion. The signal is sent out in bursts 
rather than in a continuous stream. 
The French feel this is a more eco- 
nomical use of data-transmission 
techniques. 

The British technology is endorsed 
by the Conference of European Posts 
and Telecommunications (CEPT). 
The German videotex system (Bild- 
schirmtext) grew out of the British 
system, as did the systems being 
developed by Belgium, Italy, and The 
Netherlands. Austria's MUPID (Mul- 
tipurpose Universally Programmable 
Intelligent Decoder) and Norway's 
Teledata also use the CEPT (British) 
format. 

A third system, Telidon, was de- 
veloped by the Canadian Department 
of Communications. This technology 
uses alphageometrics , where shapes 
are not defined by a series of boxes 
but by geometric elements such as 
points and lines. The points are con- 
nected according to certain com- 
mands, called picture description in- 
structions (PDIs), such as arc, rec- 
tangle, circle, square, polygon, and 
line. A set of points can be connected 
by merely specifying a series of points 
and issuing a draw instruction, such 
as "arc." 



VIDEOTEX PROTOCOLS 









s 


TELIDON 
(CANADA) 






; I 




ANTIOPE 
(FRANCE) 


PLP 
(AT8T) 






i r\ 

NAPLPS 

(NORTH AMERICA) 







PRESTEL 
(U.K.) 



" 



BILDSCHIRMTEXT 
(W. GERMANY) 
VIDITEL 
(NETHERLANDS) 




PROPOSED WORLD STANDARD 



Figure 4: A genealogical chart of the different videotex protocob. Prestel, the British 
videotex protocol, was first introduced around 1976. Later systems are either based on 
Prestel or have added significantly enhanced graphics capabilities. The CEPT (Con- 
ference of European Posts and Telephones) standard is based predominantly on Prestel. 
Although the various protocols are fairly incompatible, they are being merged into a 
world videotex standard. 



The best feature of Telidon is that it 
provides a sophisticated graphics en- 
vironment that appeals to consumers 
and advertisers, two necessary ele- 
ments of a mass videotex service. The 
argument against Telidon is that the 
equipment needed to receive the high- 
resolution graphics may be too ex- 
pensive to gain acceptance in the mar- 
ketplace. 

The Japanese have developed yet 
another videotex system, called CAP- 



TAIN (Character and Pattern Tele- 
phone Access Information Network). 
This system is alphaphotographic; 
the screens look very much like still 
photos, and each individual point on 
the screen is addressed separately. 
This is necessary to accommodate the 
great variety of Japanese characters. 

Unfortunately, these systems are 
not compatible with each other at this 
time (see figure 4). 

Two years ago AT&T developed 



5 Mon Nov29 P168 ELECTRe 

THE KEYPAD 



Button A: '. . , 
bot t cm^ f ul 1 Dutton 
doubles the size c< 
the text for easier 
ading . 

Button B: Switches 
the TV to teletext 

Button C: Reveals 
hidden words and 
graphics 

Number Buttons 

These buttonr 
up pages betu 
10O and 199 

More in a moment 



PUZZLES 



sose parts of the US you can find 
t the time bg picking up the phone 
: dialing N-E-R- V-O-U-S C637-868?> 

ie numbers giv, — 
-i a into the -a-<?s 
.:a;es 'j hat are tfiet,'' 

»36-?442 GEORGIA 

463-4262 INDIANA 

639-9675 NEU YORK 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 45 



another videotex system called PLP 
(Presentation Level Protocol), based 
on the Telidon technology. This sys- 
tem was later modified as the North 
American Presentation Level Proto- 
col Syntax (NAPLPS). It uses 
Telidon's PDIs and alphageometrics 
and employs macro-PDIs, which de- 
fine a series of commands and thus 
allow more information to be sent 
with fewer instructions. It also uses 
Antiope's DRCS and Prestel's alpha- 
mosaics. [See Jim Fleming's four-part 
series (February through May) on 
"NAPLPS: A New Standard for Text 
and Graphics."] 

Canada has decided to upgrade its 
technology to meet NAPLPS specifi- 
cations. France has also made plans 
to upgrade its system. But the British 
have not agreed to go along with the 
NAPLPS protocol. A worldwide 
videotex standard is now being 
developed. 

Videotex and Teletext in America 

The U.S. government has not yet 
approved any standard for videotex 



or for teletext. It seems that only two 
standards for teletext are being con- 
sidered seriously: the North Ameri- 
can Broadcast Teletext Specification 
(NABTS), which is compatible with 
NAPLPS and is supported by Time 
Inc., CBS, and NBC; and the British 
technology supported by Satellite 
Syndicated Systems and Keycom 

Proponents of NAPLPS 

and NABTS say that 

the superior graphics of 

their systems will 

attract advertising 

support. 

Electronic Publishing (a joint venture 
of Field Enterprises, Honeywell, and 
Centel Communications). Taft Broad- 
casting and Zenith Corporation have 
announced plans for a teletext system 
using the British technology to be 
launched in Cincinnati. Zenith has 
stated, however, that it will make 
hardware for any type of system. 
NBC and CBS have announced 



DAISY WHEEL 
PRINTER 




$695 

plus shipping 



FEATURES 

• Typewriter operation with nothing to disconnect • IO. 12 or 15 characters per 
inch switch selectable • Portable with carrying case • Entire interface mounted 
internally In the Olivetti Praxis 30 typewriter • Underlining • Cables available for 
most computers • service from Olivetti dealers • Centronics compatible parallel 
input • Built in self test • Cartridge ribbon • 2nd keyboard switch selectable. 



CBYTEWRITER 



125 NORTHVIEW RD., ITHACA, NY. 14850 
(607) 272-1 132 



plans for the 1983 launch of two na- 
tional teletext systems supporting the 
NABTS format. Times Mirror and 
Viewtron, a subsidiary of Knight- 
Ridder, have both announced plans 
for 1983 launches of videotex systems 
using the NAPLPS format. 

A strong argument for the simpler 
British teletext format is that it is 
already in commercial use. The sys- 
tem is presented by its supporters as 
being affordable for mass-market dis- 
tribution and relatively error-free in 
transmission. 

The proponents of NAPLPS and 
NABTS state that their systems will 
have very good graphics capabilities 
to interest advertisers who might sup- 
port various system offerings and 
that the decoders, when produced in 
mass quantities, will be comparable 
in price to British decoders. 

At this time, the cost of British 
television sets equipped with interac- 
tive videotex decoders is approx- 
imately $200 (U.S.) over the cost of a 
standard color television set. Add-on 
decoders that would attach to stan- 
dard television sets would cost ap- 
proximately $250 for the British ver- 
sion and approximately $450 for the 
NAPLPS version if produced in large 
quantities. American Bell Inc. (an 
AT&T company) and Norpak (a Ca- 
nadian company) have produced pro- 
totypes of NAPLPS terminals. Amer- 
ican Bell will be marketing NAPLPS 
terminals at a special introductory 
price of $600 for the Viewtron test in 
southern Florida this year. Norpak 's 
decoders are approximately $1000, 
with prices expected to go down to 
$500 per decoder by the middle of 
1984. 

Matsushita has just signed an 
agreement with Time Video Informa- 
tion Services (of Time Inc.) to co- 
develop hardware for its teletext ser- 
vices. The first products will be tele- 
text terminals selling under the Pana- 
sonic name for approximately $150 
each. 

Personal Computers and Videotex 

Although the technology behind 
videotex is new and barely out of the 
trial stages, it is merely an extension 
of traditional online services. Video- 
tex should allow the unsophisticated 



46 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 60 on inquiry card. 



Circle 396 on Inquiry card. > 



Illllllll 




TALLGRASS AND YOUR IBM® PC 

Tallgrass Technologies is the industry leader in 
Winchester HardFile™ and streaming tape subsystems 
for the IBM® PC and related computers. Fortune 500 
corporations, banks, governmental agencies, and 
small businesses throughout the world depend on 
Tallgrass HardFile subsystems for their mass storage 
and backup requirements. 

Tallgrass offers formatted capacities from 6.25 Mb to 
70 Mb with integral streaming tape back-up. Our pro- 
prietary disk/tape controller with integral 10K track 
buffer optimizes read/write activity and, coupled with 
our DMA host interface, offers high performance pre- 
viously unavailable with 5 'A" disk systems. 

WHAT ABOUT DATA INTEGRITY? 

Tallgrass offers backup on ANSI standard Y*" tape 
cartridges, instead of the usual floppies, video cas- 
settes, or low-capacity removable Winchester devices. 
The Tallgrass 12.5 Mb formatted HardFile can back 
itself up on a $39.95 data cartridge in less than 
10 minutes! 



TALLGRASS IS UNSURPASSED 

We've done our homework in engineering and build- 
ing a reliable HardFile subsystem with remarkable 
performance and convenient backup for the most 
stringent on-line mass storage and off-line archival 
requirements. 

From $2,995 U.S. including integral tape back-up. 
Available from COMPUTERLAND* and other 
participating computer dealers. 

Exclusive Canadian Distributor Exclusive European Distributor 

Micro- Ware™ CPS Computer Group, Ltd. 

440 Phillip St. Birmingham, 

Waterloo, Ontario N2I.5R9 EngIandB276BH 

(519)884-4690 (021)7073866 




Tallgrass 

T©cfinoiogi©s 

Corporation 



11667 W. 90th, Overland Park, KS 66214, (913) 492-6002 
Telex: 215406 TBYT UR 



ERG/68000 

MINI-SYSTEMS 

D Full IEEE 696/S100 compatibility 

HARDWARE OPTIONS 

D 8MHz, 10MHz or 12MHz 68000 

CPU 
D Memory Management 
D Multiple Port Intelligent I/O 

□ 64K or 128K STATIC RAM 
(70 nsec) 

D 256K/512K or 1MB Dynamic 
RAM, with full parity (150 nsec) 

D 5 1 /4" - 8" 0/D, D/S floppy disk 
drives 

□ 5MB-40MB hard disk drives 
D Full DMA Disk Interface 

□ SMD Disk Interface 
D V*" tape streamer 
D 10 to 20 slot backplane 
D 20 or 30A amp power supply 
D Desk top or Rack mount 

cabinets 

SOFTWARE OPTIONS 

D 68KFORTH systems language 
with MACRO assembler and 
META compiler, Multi-user, 
Multi-Tasking 

D Fast Floating Point package 

D Motorola's MACSBUG 

D Unix 2 Type Operating System 
with C, PASCAL, FORTRAN 77, 
68KBASIC , CIS COBOL', 
RDBMS 

□ CP/M-68K 3 O/S with C, 
Assembler, 68K-BASIC, 
68KFORTH 1 , Z80 EMULATOR 1 , 
APL 

LI VED68K 1 Screen Editor 

Trademark ERG, Inc. 

BELL LABS 'Digital Research 

"Micro Focus 

30 day delivery 
with valid Purchase Order 

OEM prices available 
For CPU, Integrated Card Sets 

kor Systems. 

Empirical Research Group, Inc. 

P.O. Box 1176 

Milton, WA 98354 

206-631-4855 









Startup Coding 




Service 


Advertising 


Graphics 


Date Technology 


Users 


CBS/AT&T 


yes 


yes 


1982 PLP(AT&T) 


200 


CompuServe 


yes 


no 


1980 ASCII 


45,000 


Dow Jones 


no 


no 


1977 ASCII 


60,000 


Keyfax (teletext) 


yes 


yes 


1982 Prestel 


2500 


Viewtron 


yes 


yes 


1980 PLP(AT&T) 
1983 NAPLPS 


200 
5000 


Qube (Warner Amex) 


yes 


yes 


1977 Text & Video 


50,000 


The Source 


yes 


no 


1979 ASCII 


27,000 


Time Inc. (teletext) 


yes 


yes 


1983 NAPLPS 


400 


Times Mirror 


yes 


yes 


1982 NAPLPS 


350 


Table 1: Videotex and teletext tests being performed in the United States. 





user access to many kinds of informa- 
tion. This will be similar to the way 
user-friendly software, which can be 
used by professionals in all fields, not 
just computer science or data process- 
ing, has helped personal computer 
growth to become extraordinary. 

A large part of the planned video- 
tex audience will include personal 
computer users. Some personal com- 
puters may be adapted to videotex 
terminals, and dedicated videotex ter- 
minals may have a number of com- 
puter-like features. Depending on the 
amount of processing power built 
into videotex decoders, some may 
even use interactive game services, 
and have software downloaded to 
them. 

Videotex is not in competition with 
personal computers; both are part of 
a new world of telecommunications. 
The difference is that personal com- 
puter owners can process information 
on a stand-alone basis, while videotex 
users may be dependent on process- 
ing power resident in a distant main- 
frame computer. But in many cases, 
that processing facility, regardless of 
geographic location, is only a local 
telephone call away. 

Many people see videotex as the 
gateway to myriad other services. 
Data processing professionals have 
seen this type of computer interaction 
for some time in the form of distrib- 
uted processing. 

Videotex terminals may be hooked 
up to television sets just as personal 
computers and game machines are. 
The terminals may communicate with 
personal computers and vice versa. 



Therefore, the issue is not whether 
videotex will overtake personal com- 
puters, but rather whether the com- 
bination of the consumer and busi- 
ness markets for videotex services 
will be enhanced by the growth of the 
personal computer market. Each one 
should generate interest in the other. 
What new users can expect to find 
are specialized services similar to 
those now available from the Dow 
Jones Information Service, which ap- 
peals to businessmen interested in 
financial news. Dow Jones' subscrib- 
ers now number 60,000. The service, 
begun in 1977, offers a Media General 
database, the Academic American 
Encyclopedia, The Wall Street Jour- 
nal Online, Barron's, and more. Dow 
Jones recently developed software for 
the service that enables subscribers to 
chart performance of stocks and up- 
date and evaluate portfolios using the 
News Retrieval Service. Software de- 
velopment is going hand in hand with 
videotex-like service development, 
with the idea that personalized 
usability of interactive services will 
make for long-term subscribers. 

Videotex and Teletext Tests 

Although there is little real video- 
tex and teletext usage in the U.S., a 
number of tests are being performed, 
and videotex-like services such as 
Dow Jones have been quite popular 
(see table 1). 

On October 31, 1982, the Time 
Video Information Services division 
of Time Inc. began its teletext test in 
San Diego, California, and Clear- 
water, Florida, in partnership with 



48 July 19*3 © BYTE Publications he 



Bored Waiting? 

Here's The Board You Ve 

Been Waiting For. 

I • L III. I 



i ii , 



iiMimmti;- 



A hard disk and cartridge tape 
controller together on one 
board? Magic? Not really. It's 
Teletek's HD/CTC. The hard disk 
and cartridge tape drive control- 
ler provide the support necessary 
to interface both rigid-disk 
drives and a cartridge tape deck 
to the S-100 bus. 
A Z-80A CPU (optionally Z-80B) 
providing intelligent control of 
the rigid-disk and cartridge 
tape drives. 

Support of 5V rigid-disk 
drives with transfer rates of 









5 megabits per second. Minor 
changes of the on-board com- 
ponents allow the support of 
other drive types/sizes and 
transfer rates up to 15 megabits 
per second. (Interface to disk 
drive is defined by software/ 
firmware on-board.) 
Controller communications 
with the host processor via 2K 
FIFO at any speed desirable 
(limited only by RAM access 
time) for a data block transfer. 
Thus the controller does not 



constrain the host processor in 
any manner. 

' Two 28-pin sockets allowing 
the use of up to 16K bytes of 
on-board EPROM and up to 8K 
bytes of on-board RAM. 

Individual software reset 
capability. 

Conforms to the proposed 
IEEE-696 S-100 standard. 
Controller can accommodate 
two rigid-disk drives and one 
cartridge tape drive. Expansion 
is made possible with an 
external card. 



Teletek's HD/CTC Offers A Hard Disk 

Controller, Plus Cartridge Tape Controller, 

All On One Board. 



TELETEK 



c^L B k U ,<r SS ^^ DriVC SaCrament °' CA 95827 '916)361-1777 Telex #4991834 Answer back-Teletek 

Circle 405 on inquiry card. 



BIG BOARD - TREND 




DEPARTURES FROM SAN DIEGO TO 





UP IN SMOKE 

Under a Senate plan 
now before the 
House, US taxes on 
cigarettes would 
double. 

For the average 
1.5-pack/day 
smoker, that means 
$82/year in taxes. 
In '51, a smoker 
pa i d $36/yaar . 



[13 NEHS SCAN 



! PROPOSED 
I CURRENT 





'' ":iff:;^ 





Photo 2: Examples of pictures created on Time Video Information Services' teletext system. This system uses a protocol based on 
NAPLPS and thus is capable of fairly high resolution graphics. 



the Copley Press and The Orlando 
Sentinel. They are offering 4000 to 
5000 pages of information on enter- 
tainment, national and local news 
and weather, travel, stocks, and edu- 
cation (see photo 2). 

Time will offer a national teletext 
service in late 1983 to be aimed at a 
wide consumer audience. Time will 
use a full cable channel to deliver the 
one-way service with advertiser sup- 
port. Users may select pages of infor- 
mation from a continually changing 
cycle of pages. Because Time is not 
limited to using the vertical blanking 
interval (VBI), it can put out 5000 
pages of information, whereas most 
VBI services put out only 200 pages. 
Time is also offering an interactive 
game feature, household hints, sports 
scores, news, weather, and restaurant 
guides. 



Chemical Bank, Chase Manhattan, 
and Citibank in New York City are 
all experimenting with banking ser- 
vices using interactive videotex. 

Using a videotex 

service, electronic 

banking might be 

linked to shopping by 

computer, with credit 

checks and billing 
handled automatically. 

These systems, however, are not 
graphics-oriented. Chemical intends 
to license its system, called Pronto, to 
other banks. Because paper-based 
banking is becoming more and more 
expensive, banks are looking for 
ways to cut down on the expense of 
processing checks and to speed up the 



collection of money. Electronic bank- 
ing might be the solution, but some 
banks feel that a banking service 
alone will not be enough to entice 
banking customers to buy videotex 
terminals. 

Again, the idea of distributed pro- 
cessing or videotex "gateway" con- 
nections between geographically 
disparate computers becomes more 
appealing. If bank customers could 
also order merchandise, for example, 
with merchants having immediate 
credit checks performed and auto- 
matically generated billing, both the 
banker and the retailer might profit 
from operating or supplying informa- 
tion to a videotex service. 

The questions are Does the con- 
sumer want the information in elec- 
tronic form? and Will the price be ac- 
ceptable? Studies have shown that 



50 July 1M3 © BYTE Publication! Inc 



Circle 270 on inquiry card. < 



Two of mankind's greatest treasures 



%Jt, % ^' 





Reflected in two outstanding peripherals 

for your APPLE II 



The MBI 
APPLETIME M 



Card 



Fully Mountain Software compatible 

Disk included with all software 

Includes Datebook ' - a complete desk calendar 

Time of day 

Calendar date 

Day of week 

Program timer 

International time-keeping ability 

Recharging battery backup 

Complete software formatting 

Offset time/date/day readout 



The MBI ™ VIP Card 

VIP Card - "Versatile Interface Peripheral" 

(Available lor EPSON, NEC, C-ITOH, IDS PRISM, OKIDATA 
and olher graphic printers won) 

VIP Card -The Ultimate Graphics Card 

A Centronics Parallel Interface with a Serial Port and 
Cables featuring: 

• Text and graphics screen dump routine 

• Graphics with inverse & emphasized modes 

• Enlarged picture mode 

• Variable line length with left & right margins 

• Block graphics 

• 90" picture rotation 

• Chart Recorder Mode 

• A serial port with full RS232 capability 

• Software baud rate control from 110 to 9600 baud 



MICROCOMPUTER 
BUSINESS 
INDUSTRIES 
CORPORATION 

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES: 1019 8TH STREET, GOLDEN, COLORADO 80401 (U.S.A.) 
TELEPHONE: (303) 279-8438 



TWX: 910-934-0191 



idem.irl, tit Apple 



ift tXih-lxrok .in' trade marks <>( Mil 




Photo 3: A terminal that is used in the French Teletel system for electronic access to 
phone directories and other services. 



users may have to pay from $15 to 
$40 per month for videotex services. 

The teletext service Keycom, first 
offered by Field Enterprises Inc. over 
broadcast station WFLD in Chicago, 
is now transmitted on the VBI of the 
WTBS Satellite Service. Keycom 
offers weather, sports, and leisure in- 
formation 24 hours a day. The Na- 
tional Keyfax magazine is a joint ven- 
ture between Satellite Syndicated 
Systems (SSS) and Keycom. 

Ongoing U.S. videotex tests in- 
clude a CBS /AT&T test in Ridge- 
wood, New Jersey, Cox Cable's Indax 
in San Diego, and various agricultur- 
al services. 

The Warner Amex Qube system in 
Columbus, Ohio, begun in 1977, is 



going strong with 50,000 subscribers 
who receive videotex-like services 
over cable. 

Canada has many experiments op- 
erating, including Grass Roots in 
Manitoba and Teleguide in Ontario. 
Grass Roots is an agricultural data- 
base that Canadian farmers are using 
to check weather, grain futures, and 
livestock prices. Teleguide is a kind of 
electronic Michelin Guide offered in 
public places to let city visitors know 
what's available — from museums to 
nightclubs — and how to get around 
town. 

The French have completed two 
videotex tests, including an electronic 
telephone directory project with 1400 
users and a total service, known as 



3-V (for Velizy, Versailles, and Val de 
Bievre), with 2500 subscribers. 

France is putting millions of dollars 
into a countrywide electronic yellow- 
pages project that is expected to 
serve all of France by 1986 and save 
even more millions in the cost of pro- 
ducing and updating print directories. 
Along with the yellow pages, other 
features are being offered. The elec- 
tronic directory trial uses stand-alone 
terminals (photo 3) capable of linking 
into Teletel, the French videotex ser- 
vice. 

The 3-V trial included transactional 
services where users had "smart 
cards" containing a microprocessor 
capable of storing an individual's 
one-year credit or complete medical 
history. The cards were put into card 
readers near the terminal and credit 
checks could be performed on the 
spot. 

French studies show that games 
and entertainment sections such as 
horoscopes were used more widely 
than any other interactive videotex 
feature when the services were first 
introduced. Another very popular 
service was electronic mail. Most in- 
formation providers in France have 
begun to use video games to draw 
users to their databases, even though 
the games may have very little to do 
with the other information offered. 

The French technology is being 
used in a test with 200 farmers in 
Fargo, North Dakota, sponsored by 
First Bank System. J. C. Penney 
(which recently purchased the sys- 
tem), Dayton's (a regional retail 
store), B. Dalton Bookseller, and 
local merchants are participating in 



c 



compilers 



HOST 


6809 
TARGET 


PDP-117LS1-11* 
TARGET 


8080/(Z80) 
TARGET 


8088/8086 
TARGET 


FLEXVUNIFLEX* 
OS-9* 


$200.00 "SXS ' 

$350.00 ,"','", 


500.00 


500.00 


500.00 


RT11*/RSX-11* 
PDP-11* 


500.00 


200.00 *;;::,';' 
350.00 s;; 


500.00 


500.00 


CP/M* 
8080/IZ80) 


500.00 


500.00 


200.00 *,u'™ ' 
350.00 "i"; 


500.00 


PCDOSVCP/M86* 
8088/8086 


500.00 


500.00 


500.00 


200.00 "!S3 ' 

350.00 ,"'", 



'PCDOS is a trademark of IBM CORP. MSDOS is a trademark of MICROSOFT. UNIX is 
a trademark of Bell Labs. RT-1 1/RSX-l l/PDP-l 1 is a trademark of Digital Equipment 
Corporation. FLEX/UNIFLEX is a trademark of Technical Systems consultants. CP/M 
& CP/M86 are trademarks of Digital Research. OS-9 is a trademark of Microware & 
Motorola. 



• FULL C 

• UNIX* Ver. 7 COMPATABILITY 

• NO ROYALTIES ON GENERATED CODE 

• GENERATED CODE IS REENTRANT 

• C AND ASSEMBLY SOURCE MAY BE 
INTERMIXED 

• UPGRADES & SUPPORT FOR 1 YEAR 
C SOURCE AVAILABLE FOR $2500°° 

408-275-1659 
TELECON SYSTEMS 

1155 Meridian Avenue, Suite 218 
San Jose, California 95125 



52 July 1983 © BYTE Publication! Inc 



Circle 404 on inquiry card. 



INTRODUCING THE SAFT 

STANDBY POWER SYSTEM. IT KEEPS 

YOU FROM LOSING YOUR MEMORY 

WHEN THE LIGHTS GO OUT. 



If the power fails while you're reading this ad, 
everything your computer knows could be lost. 

In an instant, information crucial to the smooth 
operation of your business can vanish without a trace. 
Memories can be flushed, disks can be damaged. 

That's why you need the Saft Standby Power 
System. In the event of a blackout or brownout, 
it takes over instantly — before the computer can tell 
there's anything wrong — and supplies 200 watts of 



AMERICA 

More power to you. 



power for 20 minutes. Which gives you plenty of time 
to get off the machine safely, without missing a 
single byte. 

And during normal operation it acts as a line filter, 
protecting against damaging voltage spikes. 

Ask your dealer about the Saft Standby Power 
System. It's the first standby system designed specifi- 
cally for small business computers. And offered at a 
small business price. 




Circle 357 on inquiry card. gSr 

Saft Portable Battery Division, 931 Vandalia St., St. Paul, MN 55114 (612) 645-8531 



■WWW 1 ■■ 



■ ■ WELCOME TO ■ 

UiQtutron 

A SERVICE OP UIF.W0ATA CORPORATION OF AMERICA, IK. 



Topic Index 
Alphabetic Index 
Hew on UiRiulron 
Help and Instructions 
Electronic Mailbox 



LmyiittTjoM 



UtEMTROM/SURREVS 




h De 




10 



E 

gumys 



tip'/ 

«jn*«r IN 

I i r 
In 

ind tirt.mil! 

leathei 



SEHP FOR CHRISTMAS GIFTS IftOEX I MORE ► 



~m 



UIEWTROH JORDAH MARSH 



285 




CBLUIH KLEIh JEAHS 

Vour best bet 

For only $34 

Reach for the designer 

Jtan that has it «K 

Rugged fK/e-pocfcet 

Western .styling. 

Sizes 28-33 

ordain 

J rnarsn 



SEHP FOR J O ROAtl MARSH IBPEX 



UIEWTROIV-BAflKIMG 



CHECKIHG AtXOUHT STfiTEMEHT 



0ATE TR»«S«CTI0n 



CREDIT 



08 90 



tWMMM*:-' 



*^ 



UTHEAST BAI1K IH0D 



Photo 4: Examples of the pictures created on the Viewtron system being run by Knight-Ridder newspapers and AT&T. This system is 
based on NAPLPS and is capable of some very impressive graphics. (Copyright © 1983 by Viewdata Corporation of America Inc., used 
by permission.) 



the test. From their farms, ranches, or 
one of approximately 40 public loca- 
tions, users may bank at home, send 
and receive electronic mail, order 
goods, and get weather, crop, and 
shopping news along with local and 
national news and sports. The French 
system is also being tested in Brazil 
and Greece. 

The French have now consolidated 
their marketing programs for the U.S. 
and have announced the establish- 
ment of Videographic Systems of 
America (VSA) to supply potential 
teletext and videotex clients with 
complete systems. Thomson-CSF, the 
major stockholder in the new com- 
pany, will oversee VSA. CBS and 
NBC have agreed to use VSA equip- 
ment for their NABTS teletext opera- 
tions. 

The Viewtron (Knight-Ridder/ 
AT&T) videotex service to begin this 



year in southern Florida will offer 
banking and shopping from home, 
education, games, puzzles, reference 
material, an electronic messaging ser- 
vice, bulletin boards, classified ads, 
and recreational information such as 
airline schedules, seating arrange- 
ments, and community events. The 
service will also allow users to link up 
with other databases (see photo 4). 
Viewtron is currently soliciting 
advertisers to appear on the system. 
Advertisers' storage charges for infor- 
mation kept in the Viewtron com- 
puter are $1 per frame per week. (A 
frame is composed of 40 characters 
by 20 lines.) Advertisers can also elec- 
tronically mail commercial messages 
to specific Viewtron subscribers. 

Viewtron's first test (July 1980) in 
Coral Gables involved a total of 204 
households and 500,000 frames, al- 
though only approximately 18,000 



frames were available at any one 
time. 

Test results showed that 90 percent 
of the participants liked the service 
and 66 percent thought that the 
advertisers offered enough informa- 
tion for them to make a buying deci- 
sion. 

Preliminary joint venture agree- 
ments have been signed between 
Viewtron and Affiliated Publications 
Inc. (The Boston Globe), Capital 
Cities Communications (The Kansas 
City Star and The Fort Worth Star- 
Telegram), and A. S. Abell Publish- 
ing Company (The Baltimore Sun). 

Times Mirror began videotex test- 
ing in March 1982, with 150 house- 
holds having the service delivered 
through television cable and 150 
receiving the service through tele- 
phone lines (see photo 5). Of all the 
services offered — banking, home 



54 July 1983 © BYTE Publication! Inc 



Innovative technology 
brings you quality color 
printing 

for only $599 







The technology of the all-new Transtar 315 color printer 
revolutionizes color impact printingl Unlike old-fashioned 
printers needing multiple passes with pins to print color, the 
Transtar 315 employs an innovative 4-hammer print head to 
allow 7 colors and more than 30 shades to be printed in 
a single pass ! 

A unique 4-color diagonal ribbon maximizes the efficiency 
of the 315's color imaging and enhances its simple reliability. 
Built by Seikosha, the most experienced manufacturing 
company of the famous Seiko group, the Transtar 315 is 
available now and has been designed to be compatible with 
the IBM, Apple I l/l le and Franklin personal computers. An 
optional PICS card also allows Apple and Franklin users to 
simply depress the 315's "copy" button to print any high- 
or low-resolution screen without exiting a program! 



Transtar is bringing the technology of tomorrow to you 
today. Your future in color printing is only $599 away. 

Transtar 

P.O. Box C-96975, Bellevue, Washington 98009 



Circle 417 on inquiry card. 



GUIDE TO HEU YORK 



[Check • 
make re 
land coul 



1 Or i entat i on to 
New York 
T 2 Hotels 

3 Restaurants 

4 N i ght I i f e 

5 Theater 

6 Museums 

7 Sites of 
Interest 

8 Shopp i ng 



with OAG before you 
n». It's easy jto do 
you money 19 1 



^ Travel / Main Inde; 



Outdoor Life> Saltwater Fish 

i G i ant Sea Bass 



The giant sea bass 
is the only bass 



/» Ca I i f orn i a coast 
1 i'^ 1 %t that has More 
spines than soft rays in the dorsal 
f i ns . There »rs 11 sp i nes and n i ne or 
1 soft rays . 

Young fish up to 6 inches long are 
br i ck-red and have six i rregu I sr rows 
of b I ack spots on the i r si des . These ' 

^ Sa I tuiater F i sh / F i sh i n< 



iutt4 



Ana is Ana is has the 
scent of a floral 
bouquet warmed w i th 
woodsy, musky 
notes . 



e : Faucets 



ring Fu I I er Faucet: 

Generally/ a leak in- 
d i cates a worn va I ve 
bal I . If the eccentric 

has worn/ a new 
va I ve will not be pu I - 
led up with sufficient 
pressure to stop the 
leaking. If this is 
the case, replace the ' 
entire valve. If the 
valve seat is grooved, 
1 1 a I one can be rep I aced . a 

1 0-R i n < 



Photo 5: Examples of pictures on the Times Mirror Videotex System. Again, a NAPLPS protocol has been used. (Reprinted with 
permission from Times Mirror.) 



security, and home shopping — games 
were one of the most widely used 
features. 

Available Services 

Personal computer owners or 
videotex terminal owners can take 
advantage of some of these interac- 
tive services right now. If you have a 
modem and communications soft- 
ware you can sign up to receive Dow 
Jones, The Source, CompuServe, 
Newsnet, and several other services. 
Although these services do not yet 
have graphics capabilities, you can 
keep tabs on almost whatever it is 
you want to know. These systems 
may, in time, provide graphics infor- 
mation (and thus become true video- 
tex systems) as soon as a sizable num- 
ber of videotex terminals appear in 
the marketplace . 

As you probably know, The 
Source and CompuServe have been 



offering databases on subjects rang- 
ing from wine and food to electronics 
and communications. Electronic 
mail, bulletin boards, and special in- 
terest groups are among their most 
popular features. A new system 
called Delphi, based in Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, promises a very user- 
friendly environment. 

Another new videotex-like service, 
Newsnet, a subsidiary of Independent 
Publications Inc., is run from Bryn 
Mawr, Pennsylvania. The service 
allows you to access newsletters on 
specific topics listed in electronic 
form or in printed directories. You 
can then pick keywords relating to 
your interest in a specific field. 
Newsnet's computer will find all ar- 
ticles on that subject. Each day you 
can receive a listing of pertinent new 
articles that have come into the 
Newsnet database. 

Personal computer owners already 



have access to the videotex-like ser- 
vices that our fictional Tom Benson 
will be using 10 years from now. The 
important difference is that Tom may 
be able to use them more easily and 
less expensively. The factors of low 
cost and ease of use have already 
proved to be crucial elements in the 
growth of the personal computer 
market. It will be interesting to see 
how these same two factors affect the 
growth of videotex. It has a potential 
growth rate as explosive as that of the 
personal computer industry. ■ 



About the Author 

Darby Miller is director of Information Ser- 
vices Development for Hearst Cable Commu- 
nications (959 Eighth Ave., New York, NY 
10019). She has an extensive background in 
computer science and electronic media and has 
written articles for such magazines as Data 
Communications, Datamation, Videography 
and View. 



56 July 1983 © BYTE Publication! Inc 




. „'.-" y .. ■ ■ .■ 

- .■.. ' • ■ - ... ■. 



■■■&J 

' s ..:.■/' ... -v. ■ '"■ ^-". >■■■:■•■ .*>: **iP*'^tki- ■■ " , * » 

: ., ,«#■■ "•■■■ w . 



■■>•-'■■ r^.-*-'^ "■":■■ ■ ._ ..■ 



■■■'■■■ ■ ! ,,. ,Vr' ■ ''■'■'■ ■ " : ~, .-■-■■' L .■■■ ■■■'- 



its?- ^ 

,* "• " 



... . 

%■'*.,■■ ■■ ■ 





The latest word in computer peripherals... 



...and the last word 
in disk backup. 

The 525-CT FloppyTape Is a new class of product 

that provides the last word in Winchester disk drive backup with its 
many unique design features. Using the standard 1/4-inch tape 
cartridge, this innovative device combines low cost, high capacity, 
and disk-type data accessibility to provide disk backup features 
with new meanings: 

Low Price 1 . Sells for appreciably less than any other device with 
comparable features. 2. Priced at $300 per unit in large OEM quantities. 

High Capacity Storage 1. Stores 32 unformatted megabytes of 
data on a standard 1/4-inch tape cartridge. 2. Allows one tape cartridge 
to replace up to 40 double-sided, double-density floppy disks. 



Floppy Disk Emulation 1 . Configures a standard 1/4-inch tape 

cartridge with important floppy disk features such as random access to 

sectors and soft sector formatting. 2. Allows in-place updating of 

information stored on the tape. 

Immediate Integration 1. Attaches to standard floppy disk 

controllers. 2. Provides plug compatibility with standard SA450 or 

SA850 interface connectors. 

Space Saving Design 1. Packaged in the same compact form 

factor as the 5-1/4-inch floppy or Winchester disk drive. 2. Designed 

with easy front panel loading and positive cartridge lock. 3. Permits 

flat or side mounting. 

So, let FloppyTape redefine your disk backup requirements. 
Next time you're in the market for the latest word in 
backup.just look it up. . .then hook it up. 
For a Further Definition-Contact 
Cipher for a free 525-CT FloppyTape brochure, or 
for further information on other Cipher products. 



CIPHER DATA PRODUCTS (UK) LTD. 
Camberley Surrey, England 
Telephone: 0276-682912 
Telex: 858329 



cipher 

10225 Willow Creek Road, RO. Box 85170, San Diego, California 92138 
Telephone: (619J 578-9100, TWX: 910-335-1251 



Circle 71 on inquiry card. 

CIPHER DATA PRODUCTS S.A.R.L, 
Paris, France 
Telephone: (I) 668 87 87 
Telex: 203935 




CIPHER DATA PRODUCTS GmbH 
Munich, West Germany 
Telephone: (089) 807001/02 
Telex: 521-4094 



9JADRAM IN AUGURATES THE 



Use Apple software in your 
IBM PC and XT 

Who said you can't mix Apples 
and IBMs? Innovation by Quad- 
ram makes it possible with Quad- 
link.™ A simulated Apple compu- 
ter on a revolutionary new 
enhancement board. 

Most programs designed for the 
Apple II. II Plus or lie — including 
educational software and enter- 
tainment options — are now 
compatible with IBM PCs sophis- 
ticated business capabilities. 



That's right. An Apple and an 
IBM. In one computer with no 
software limitations. Quadlink by 
Quadram opens a whole new 
world of possibilities. 

Easy to use 

Quadlink plugs inside IBM PCs. No 
conversion or reformatting of 
diskettes needed. Just load Apple 
software in the IBM and key one 
command. That puts you in the 
Apple mode. When ready to 
switch back just press a different 



key. It's that simple. Like having 
an Apple 64K computer inside 
your IBM. 

Keep the extras 

Quadlink allows use of all IBM 
enhancements while running 
Apple software. Printers, buffers, 
monitors and more. 

When using a monitor there's no 
plugging or unplugging cables. 
Apple programs will appear on an 






"'Aft. 



I 



fe 







J< 















Apple and the Apple logo are registered trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc. 

IBM and the IBM logo are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation. 



MERGER OF APPLE AND IBM 



IBM monochrome or color moni- 
tor, like Quadram's chrome vivid 
RGB color monitor Quadchrome. 
more clearly than Apple's own 
screen — even while working 
with Apple's high resolution color 
graphics. 

Explore your options 

Quadlink comes standard with 
64K memory. Requiring only one 
expansion slot, it offers a game 



port and works with all I/O 
devices designed to enhance the 
IBM PC. Like parallel and serial 
ports for operating printers, 
modems and other peripheral 
accessories. There's nothing like 
Quadlink And nothing like reliable 
Quadram Quality to stand behind 
it. 

Quadram Corporation is an Intel- 
ligent Systems Company. For over 
a decade, ISC has been an innova- 



tor in personal computer enhance- 
ments and color graphics 
peripherals. 

Quadram products are available 
only through authorized dealers 
worldwide. Visit one and ask for a 
demonstration of Quadlink. Priced 
at only $680, we think you'll like 
what we've discovered. 

Check on our other enhance- 
ments too, especially Quadboard, 
the original multifunction board 
for the IBM PC. 
Circle 341 on inquiry card. 




QUADRAM 



CORPORATION 



4357 Park Drive / Norcross, Ga. 30093 / (404) 923-6666 
TWX 810-766 4915 (QUADRAM NCRS) 



Available for delivery to retail stores worldwide in late June. 




Photo 1: Samples of Prestel pages (screens) showing the variety of services and the character-graphics-display capabilities. Photos la 
through le show a sequence of service-information pages with a response page at If. Mailbox-message pages are shown in lg through 
li. A gateway to services on another computer is shown in Ij through ll. Character-graphics pages are depicted in lm through lo. 



Prestel: The Basis of an 
Evolving Videotex System 

The first videotex system in the world is flexible enough to 
adopt anticipated technological advances 



Prestel is a system for transmitting 
screens of textual and color-graphics 
information over the telephone line 
with two-way communication be- 
tween the user and electronic infor- 
mation services. This is often referred 
to by the generic name videotex. 
Teletext and videotex are two distinct 
but complementary electronic-infor- 
mation services available primarily in 
the United Kingdom and Europe. 
They differ in the way their informa- 
tion is distributed and the types of 
services they provide, but their color- 
graphics displays are compatible. 

With teletext, television viewers 
have immediate access to news, 
sports, travel, weather, and enter- 
tainment information. It is telecast as 
a television signal by the British 
Broadcasting Corporation in a public 
service called Ceefax and by indepen- 
dent television companies in a com- 
mercial service called Oracle. A 
special adapter is required to decode 
the telecast signal and create a page of 
information with graphics characters 
on your television screen. 



by Graham Hudson 

A limited number of pages of infor- 
mation are continuously telecast in a 
loop, and you select from a menu, or 
index page, with a remote-control 
keypad similar to the one on a push- 
button telephone. The decoder, 
which can be built into the television, 
has some intelligence and gets the 
next telecast of the page of text you've 
selected. This takes several seconds in 
some cases. The index page is telecast 
more often because it is viewed more 
frequently. 

Videotex, also called viewdata, is 
an entirely separate service that uses 
telephone lines for transmitting infor- 
mation. Prestel is British Telecom's 
public videotex system that provides 
subscribers with information from 
travel agencies, banks, newspapers, 
and other information services. Busi- 
nesses can also use Prestel for private 
information networks with closed 
user groups that control the receipt of 
certain pages of information to a 
selected group of users. 

Prestel was the first, and is still the 
most successful, videotex system in 



the world, and many of its features 
have been adopted by later videotex 
systems. It differs from telecast 
teletext systems like Ceefax and 
Oracle in significant ways. It is faster, 
provides more information, and is in- 
teractive, allowing you to both send 
and receive information. As soon as 
you ask for a page of information, a 
Prestel computer sends it to. you over 
the telephone line at 1200 bits per sec- 
ond (bps) and it appears on your 
video display. The characters that 
you type are transmitted to the 
Prestel system at 75 bps. Hundreds of 
thousands of pages can be stored with 
the Prestel system, as opposed to 
hundreds of pages with a teletext 
system. You can interact with Prestel 
to reserve an airplane seat, shop elec- 
tronically, or send a message to an in- 
formation service or to another user 
on the system with electronic mail. 

Prestel is available in the United 
States, but it is not as widespread or 
popular as The Source or Compu- 
Serve information services that offer 
text but not color-graphics capabil- 



ity 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 61 



ities. The Prestel distributor for the 
U.S. is Torch Computers Corpora- 
tion of Woburn, Massachusetts, 
which also offers a British microcom- 
puter with a built-in Prestel decoding 
program. 

The major videotex system in 
North America is the Telidon system 
that was developed in Canada. It has 
been modified by AT&T, resulting in 
NAPLPS (North American Presenta- 
tion-Level-Protocol Syntax). (See the 
four-part series "NAPLPS: A New 
Standard for Text and Graphics" that 
begins in the February 1983 BYTE on 
page 203.) 

Prestel's advantages over NAPLPS 
are that it is easily decoded by a ter- 
minal, requires little display memory 
or time, is less sensitive to errors in 
data communications, and costs less. 
The weak points for Prestel include a 
dependence on video-display hard- 
ware, the current low resolution of 
the images due to character graphics, 
and interconnections with printers 
and plotters. 

History and Background 

Videotex was born at British 
Telecom Research Laboratories in the 
early 1970s from a marriage of com- 
puter, communications, and televi- 
sion technology. Prestel began in 
1979. Now more than 62 percent (90 
percent by the end of the year) of the 
United Kingdom's telephone popula- 
tion can access Prestel through a local 
telephone call. 

Videotex is an interactive two-way 
information system. You are sent on- 
ly the information pages that you re- 
quest. Also, you can make a response 
to a page, for example, to make a 
hotel reservation or to order goods. 
(See photo 1 for examples of Prestel 
information pages.) A local Prestel 
center has a database of more than 
250,000 pages of information and acts 
as a gateway to information on exter- 
nal computers. These other com- 
puters can provide services such as 
online bookings, financial quota- 
tions, or banking. 

The videotex message facility 
known as Mailbox on the Prestel 
system lets you create and store a 
message on the database for another 
user. When logging into the system, 



the recipient is told if there is a 
message waiting. However, sending 
textual messages will require the use 
of an alphanumeric keyboard, not the 
simple telephone-type keypad. An ex- 
citing new scheme launched earlier 
this year will let the growing numbers 
of microcomputer owners in the 
United Kingdom access a telesof tware 
library on the Prestel database. 
Known as Micronet 800, the package 
provides an acoustic modem, decod- 
ing software for your computer, and 
library access. 

For mass-market penetration, low- 
cost terminals were needed. Because 

Videotex Is an 

Interactive system 

linked to a large 

database; teletext, a 

nonlnteractlve system, 

provides constantly 

updated Information 

such as news and 

weather. 

of this, the original terminals were 
based on television receivers with 
special-purpose integrated-circuit 
display controllers. In the United 
Kingdom a common display standard 
was developed for videotex and tele- 
cast teletext. More than a million ter- 
minals using this display standard are 
in the United Kingdom; several 
million more are in the rest of Europe. 

Teletext is a one-way noninterac- 
tive system. All the pages on its 
database are transmitted cyclically. 
After a user selects a page, the ter- 
minal displays it as it is received. The 
two services are meant to be com- 
plementary: teletext providing a 
small database of mass-appeal infor- 
mation that is constantly updated 
(news, weather, television program 
guides, and sports results) and 
videotex providing a broad spectrum 
of in-depth information (timetables, 
town guides, and consumer reports). 

This article examines the features 
of a Prestel display and discusses 
ways to implement them using a 
character generator or bit-mapped 
display. Some of the features of the 
new European videotex standard are 



outlined, including the recently pro- 
posed geometric graphic and photo- 
graphic recommendations. 

Display Facilities and Coding 

The Prestel display consists of a 
page with 24 rows of 40 characters. In 
practice, the top row of the page is 
used for a header with the informa- 
tion service's name, page number, 
and page charge. The bottom row can 
be used for system messages (for ex- 
ample, "Mistake? Try again or tell us 
on *36"). This leaves 22 rows 
available for information. The reper- 
toire of 96 alphanumeric characters 
(see figure 1) is based on the ISO (In- 
ternational Organization for Stan- 
dardization) character set that is 
similar to ASCII (American National 
Standard Code for Information Inter- 
change). Prestel does not specify the 
actual dot-matrix size or character 
font. 

For producing simple graphics, a 
set of characters made up from a 
mosaic of 3 by 2 blocks is provided. 
Each of the 6 least significant bits of 
the code used corresponds to one of 
the six mosaic elements. Characters 
are normally referred to in a two- 
number hexadecimal notation that 
corresponds to their column and row 
position in an 8 by 16 code table (for 
example, 4/1 equals the letter "A"). 
Figure 1 shows the normal way of 
representing a coding scheme where 
the interpretation of a single code is 
dependent on earlier code sequences. 
The empty code table represents the 
character set in use. Individual codes 
are received and decoded with respect 
to the current character set. The 
default value is the alphanumeric 
character set. 

Columns and 1 of the code table 
are used for control purposes such as 
moving the active position around 
the display. (The active position is 
where the next character will be dis- 
played.) This is synonymous with the 
cursor controls of a video-display 
unit. The display must automatically 
wrap around to the next row after 40 
characters are displayed. The Prestel 
central editor terminates short rows 
(less than 36 characters) using Active 
Position Down (APD) and Active 
Position Right or carriage return 



62 July 1983 © BYTE Publication. Inc 






0000 

1 0001 

2 0010 

3 0011 

4 0100 

5 0101 

6 0110 

7 0111 

8 1000 

9 1001 

10 1010 

11 1011 

12 1100 

13 1101 

14 1110 

15 1111 



DISPLAY 
ATTRIBUTE 
SET (CI) 



t DEFAULT VALUE 
A ACTION COMMENCES 
IMMEDIATELY 




000 



1 
001 



NUL 






CURSOR 
ON 












CURSOR 

OFF 


ENQ 












ACTIVE POS 
BACKWARD 




ACTIVE POS 
FORWARD 




ACTIVE POS 
DOWN 




ACTIVE POS 
UP 


ESC 


CLEAR 
SCREEN 




ACTIVE POS 
RETURN 






ACTIVE POS 
HOME 







CONTROL CODE 
SET (CO) 







ALPHA 
RED 


MOSAIC 
RED 


ALPHA 
GREEN 


MOSAIC 
GREEN 


ALPHA 
YELLOW 


MOSAIC 
YELLOW 


ALPHA 
BLUE 


MOSAIC 
BLUE 


ALPHA 
MAGENTA 


MOSAIC 
MAGENTA 


ALPHA 
CYAN 


MOSAIC 
CYAN 


. ALPHA 
WHITE 


MOSAIC 
WHITE 


FLASH 


CONCEAL 


t STEADY A 


CONTINUOUS 
1 MOSAIC 




SEPARATED 
MOSAIC 






NORMAL 
HEIGHT ° 


BLACK 
' BACKGROUND 


DOUBLE 
HEIGHT 


NEW A 
BACKGROUND 




HOLD £ 
MOSAIC 




, RELEASE 
MOSAIC 



2 
010 



3 

Oil 



s e 
ioo i ioi no 



CHARACTER 
SET IN USE 



ESC 

ALPHA 

COLOR 






SPACE 





@ 


P 


- 


P 


1 


! 


l 


A 


Q 





q 


2 


- 


2 


B 


R 


b 


- 


3 


t 


3 


C 


S 


c 


s 


4 


Y 


4 


D 


T 


d 


t 


5 


% 


5 


E 


U 


e 


■ 


6 


a 


e 


F 


V 


f 


• 


7 


' 


7 


G 


w 


g 


. 


-^8 


( 


8 


H 


X 


h 


« 


9 


) 


9 


1 


Y 


i 


y 


10 


* 




J 


Z 


i 


z 


11 


+ 




K 


- 


k 


1_ 

4 


12 




< 


L 


1 
2 


i 


II 


13 


- 


= 


M 


— 


m 


3 
4 


14 




> 


N 


t 


n 


* 


15 


/ 


P 





# 


o 


■ 



ESC 
MOSAIC 
COLOR e 



ALPHANUMERIC CHARACTER SET 



□ 


a 


<$> 


P 


□ 


U 


□ 


E 


A 


Q 


H 


Q 


□ 


a 


B 


R 


3 


S 


H 


H 


C 


S 


Q 


n 


B 


E 


D 


T 


a 


H 


B 


B 


E 


U 


nu 


L 


H 


B 


F 


V 


a 


B 


H 


B 


G 


w 


H 


E 


H 


H 


H 


X 


a 


a 


H 


S 


1 


Y 


s 


B 


H 


a 


J 


z 


■ 


a 


H 


n 


K 


- 


a 


a 


S 


e 


L 


1 

2 


a 


H 


B 


H 


M 


*• 


H 


■ 


a 


e 


N 


t 


a 


a 


H 


m 





# 


H 


■ 



MOSAIC CHARACTER SET 



Figure 1: The Prestel alphanumeric and mosaic (block graphics) character sets and the attribute-code table. All possible 7-bit codes 
are represented on an 8 by 16 table. Each code is usually referred to by its column/row numbers. For example, 0/12 (or OC hexadeci- 
mal) refers to the Clear Screen control code. The code 6/1 can indicate either the character "a" or a mosaic character, depending on 
what display attributes preceded it. The sequence 1/11, 4/2, 6/1 would produce a green "a." The sequence 1/11, 5/7, 7/15 would 
produce a solid-white mosaic character. 

July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 63 






9 9 ***** 9 9 ***************** * 




%C 8pVT 



9*99*9..*' 



BStST; 9 9 9 9 9 9*9 ******** 9. . .9. 



fc-JL * * * * * * * * * 



1 INDEXE 






1 t ALIgt USERSS.V 2 GENERPtt_ INF; 



t ements,. Buying & book i ng' f f r a 
*» ^BSport 9 Mhat s On *_QcKJ ice 




attributes to their default values as in- 
dicated in figure 1. The active posi- 
tion is then sent to the top of the 
display. Following a Clear Screen 
command, the terminal should be 
ready to receive the next character 
after 30 ms. The null code (00) causes 
no action to be taken and fills up this 
time to allow the terminal to clear the 
display. Other control codes, in- 



V 



TELETEXT ACQUISITION AND 
DECODING CIRCUITRY 



: i 






TELEPHONE 
LINE 



LINE 

INTERFACE 

CIRCUITRY 



VIDEOTEX ACQUISITION AND 
DECODING CIRCUITRY 




VIDEOTEX 
DECODING 
AND 
CONTROL 



PERFORMED BY 
MICROPROCESSOR 



AUTO-IDENTIFIER 



AUTO-DIALER 



DISPLAY 
TIMING 



DISPLAY 
CIRCUITRY 



CUSTOM-DESIGNED 
ICs 



% CHAi 
■J GEN 



PAGE 
STORE 



DATA ADDRESS 
BUS BUS 



I 



-:;;",' 



i 

INFRARED 
OR 

ULTRASONIC 
LINK 

I 



REMOTE 
KEYPAD 



RACTER 
ERATOR 



RED 



GREEN , 



TO 
*• TELE- 
fflsiiS — »■ VISION 
». TUBE 



SYNC 



CIRCUITRY COMMON 
TO BOTH TELETEXT 
AND VIDEOTEX 



Figure 2: A block diagram of a complete teletext/ Prestel terminal. 



numeric and mosaic graphics sets. 
The colors available are the eight 
combinations possible (except for 
black) from having the RGB (red- 
green-blue) display-tube electron 
guns turned on or off. The 3 least 
significant bits of the attribute code 
correspond to the logic drive of the 
RGB electron guns. 

The new background attribute sets 
the character background color to 
that of the current foreground. The 
foreground must therefore be set to 
another color for subsequent charac- 
ters to be visible. On a new row, a 
new background code will immedi- 
ately change the background color 
for the rest of the row. The black 
background code simplv sets the 



downward to occupy two rows by 
using the double-height attribute. 
Any characters that exist in the lower 
row are obliterated, even those below 
a normal-height character. Also, the 
entire lower row takes on the back- 
ground color from the row above. 
The normal-height attribute makes 
subsequent character foregrounds 
normal height. 

The separated mosaic attribute 
causes each element of a mosaic 
graphics character to split and 
become surrounded by the back- 
ground color. This provides a set of 
large-dot building blocks that have a 
visual smoothing effect when used for 
graphics such as maps and portraits. 
The seDarated effect is canceled bv 



and displayed in the attribute's posi- 
tion, instead of a space. Release 
mosaic stops the hold-mosaic effect. 
Hold mosaic has an immediate effect; 
release mosaic is effective from the 
next character position. 

Character-Generator Displays 

In common with many other text 
displays, most Prestel terminals use a 
character generator because this 
technique is extremely efficient for 
display memory. A block diagram of 
a complete teletext/Prestel terminal is 
shown in figure 2. The distinguishing 
principle of a character-generator 
system is that the display is divided 
into an array of character cells. Codes 
identifvine trip rhararfpr in parn roll 



May we interrupt the hoopla 
with a few facts? 



Nothing in the noisy world of 
multi-user micros fits the require- 
ments of business system inte- 
grators like our new desktop 
system — the MuSYS NET/work 
8816™ 

The MuSYS NET/work gives 
you multiprocessor architecture, 
extensive mass storage facilities 
(much greater than 8MB) and 
TurboDOS™, the high speed CP/M® 
compatible operating system. Gone 
are the bottlenecks that make 
shared-processor multi-user sys- 
tems too sluggish for real world 
business applications. You'll also 
appreciate the 128K RAM per user, 



mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm 



CO 

§ 



el 



CO' 



3£ Pi 



The facts: 



OS 



E » 
o c 



the local area networking capabil- 
ity (including Ethernet™), log-on 
security and other mainframe-like 
features that make the NET/work 
a truly professional, reliable 
business solution. Dealer and OEM 
customization programs available. 

Get all the down-to-business 
facts! Call or write, MuSYS 
Corporation, 1752 Langley, Irvine, 
California 92714. (714) 662-7387 
(toll-free outside California 1-800- 
852-5362). TWX: 910-595-1967. 
Cable: MUSYSIRIN. 



CORP 






No. users (min/max) 

2/8 4/4 1/6 1/8 

Winchester formatted Mbytes (min/max) 

16/102 10/20 15/30 20/40 



We design the future. 




' NET/work 8816 is a trademarked product of MuSYS Corporation. Perfect Software is a trademarked product of Perfect Software, Inc. TurboDOS is a trademarked product of Software 2000, Inc. CP/M® and 
MP/MII are trademarked products of Digital Research, Inc. Mmmost is a trademarked product of Televideo. M/Net is a trademarked product of Micromation. Ethernet is a trademark of Xerox Corp. z 8-User 

network is $11,995. MuSYS prices include 16 MB formatted Winchester. 3 Includes terminals. 



BYTE July 1983 67 



(TAURUS LAB) + (YOUR PC) = (LAB COMPUTER SYSTEM) 

Now a new micro computer based data acquisition and 
control front end that gives you:— 

Power that's easy to use: — Plugs into any RS232C, RS422, 



or IEEE port on your Personal Computer • Powerful Com- 
mand functions that include: simple reads and 
writes, high speed block analog reads, pulse ^ 
accumulation, frequency, change of state 
detection, and more • Results in engineering 
units • Convenient screw terminal panels 
Compatible with 3 amp AC/DC switch- 
ers for control of valves, pumps, ^ 
motors, etc. * 

Power that's easy to cost 



lustily:— Standard confi- 



guration includes: 
64 twelve bit 
analog inputs 
with 4 program- 
mable gains for 
inputs from 
± lOmV to ± 10V, 
64 digital I/O points, 
optional — seven 
16 bit counters. 
4 output pulsers, 
4 analog outputs • 
Stand alone mode 

with direct terminal support • Communicates 
simultaneously to three computers • 
Low maintenance cost due to internal 
diagnostics • 

Power that's easy to expand: — Plug in expansion to 1024 
points of digital and analog I/O • User memory allows 
downline load of user written functions and programs • 
Rack mount hardware available for all options • 

TAURUS LAB 



Write lor mor© information to: 

* TAURUS 
COMPUTER 
PRODUCTS 
INC. 



IN U.S.A.: 

C/O I.M.S. 
P.O. BOX 1663 
BUFFALO. N.Y. 
14203 



IN CANADA: 

P.O. BOX 91 1 
STATION "U" 
TORONTO. ONT. 
M8Z 5P9 



40 characters needs a page store with 
960 locations. With 96 different char- 
acters, it has to have 7 bits for each 
character. In practice, a lK-byte 
RAM (random-access read/write 
memory) is used. Normally, the 
display position is held in the 
decoding processor in a row (5 bits 
for 24 rows) and column (6 bits for 40 
columns) count, but this is compacted 
to a 10-bit number in the range to 
959 to address the IK bytes of 
memory. 

The main component of the char- 
acter generator is the character-set 
ROM (read-only memory). A char- 
acter matrix of 10 by 6 dots is com- 
mon, allowing 9 by 5 dots for the 
character foreground that permits de- 
scending lowercase letters. The actual 
address of the line of character dots in 
ROM is derived from the character 
code in the page store plus the char- 
acter-line count. For an interlaced 
display, character rounding is 
achieved by comparing two consecu- 
tive lines and adding half a dot before 
or after a whole dot when a diagonal 
is detected. 

The other major function of the 
character generator is to implement 
the attributes. For example, the dot 
color can be generated by holding the 
3-bit foreground and background col- 
ors from the invoking attributes on 
the inputs of a multiplexer and con- 
trolling their selection by the dot bits 
from the ROM. Double-height char- 
acters are achieved by addressing the 
same character line on two con- 
secutive display lines. Mosaic 
graphics characters can be generated 
directly from the bit patterns of the 
character codes. For separated graph- 
ics, the line of dots is masked on cer- 
tain lines. All these features are pro- 
vided on the Signetics/Mullard SAA 
5050 chip that is used in the majority 
of Prestel and European teletext ter- 
minals. 

The contents of the page store are 
transferred automatically through the 
character generator under the control 
of a display-timing circuit. The tim- 
ing source is normally a local crystal, 
sometimes phase-locked to the tele- 
cast synchronization pulses if avail- 
able. This produces dot pulses at 
166-microsecond (/is) (6-MHz) inter- 

^— Circle 397 on inquiry card. 



□ APPLE □ EAGLE D IBM, PC □ NORTHSTAR □ TRS-80 II 8" □ OSBORNE □ FRANKLIN □ STANDARD CP/M 8' 



oo 

o 
oo 



z 

ui 
N 

X 



0£ 

o 



n 



oc 
< 

O 



RENT SOFTWARE 
BEFORE YOU BUY! 

from our 

SOFTWARE 

RENTAL LIBRARY 






□You can now RENT the most popular software available for just 



X 

m 

TO 

O 
x 

oo 

K> 

O 

□ 

> 

m 
en 

□ 

O 

2 



m 

TO 

□ 



□ 

00 

c 
in 



CO 

LLI 

X 



□ 

CO 

Z 

O 

z 

O 
<_» 

D 

O 

z 



CO 

□ 
z 

< 

D 



00 

1 

CO 

»- 
Z 

O 
o 

3 



20-25%* of Manufacturers' Retail Price 

• Eliminate the risk— rent first! 

• 100% of rental fee applies toward purchase 

• All purchases are 20% Off of Manufacturer's 
Suggested List 

• Rentals are for 7-days (plus 3 days grace for return 
shipping) 

SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER 

There are now 2 different plans to choose from: 



Join the Game Group, $25.00 per year 
and rent as many games as you like for 
only 20-25% of Mfrs. Sugg. Retail Price* 



Minimum order, 3 game rentals 



Join the Business Group, $50.00 per 

year and rent as many business applica- 
tion programs as you like for only 
20-25% of Mfrs. Sugg. Retail Price* 



REMEMBER, THESE ARE NOT DEMOS, BUT ORIGINAL 
UNRESTRICTED SOFTWARE PROGRAMS 

(complete with manuals in original manufacturers' packages) 

To Immediately Order, or for more information: 

UNITED COMPUTER CORR To " Free CALL 1 - 800 " 2 " 7777 

Software Rental Library 
Culver City, California 



In California CALL 1-800 992-8888 

In LA. County CALL 1-213 823-4400 

Canadian Orders Welcome 



•Plus postage and handling 



AMERICAN 
EXPRESS 



V) 

«/> 

D 
> 

r> 
O 



z 
Q 

□ 

«/> 

-o 

TO 
m 
> 

O 



en 

□ 

m 
o 

> 

i— 

□ 



□ 

TO 

o 



□ 



TO 

> 



o 



EDUCATIONAL □ ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE □ WORD PROCESSORS □ DATA BASES □ LANGUAGES □ GRAPHICS! 

Circle 430 on inquiry card. byte July 1983 69 



vals that are used by the character 
generator to push out character dots 
serially. The dot clock is divided to 
produce the column addresses for the 
page store and further divided to pro- 
duce line synchronization pulses at 
64-/is intervals. The line pulses are 
counted to produce line numbers (1 to 
10) for the individual character 
memory and row numbers (1 to 24) to 
address the page store. A complete 
synchronization signal is also pro- 
duced to drive the display-raster time 
base when no telecast carrier is avail- 
able. The teletext timing-chain chip 
(Signetics/Mullard SAA 5020) incor- 
porates all these clock dividers and 
the address logic. 

Bit-Mapped Displays 

Another type of display architec- 
ture is frequently used for computer 
graphics and television pictures: a bit- 
mapped display. Until recently, its 
use has been restricted to professional 
applications because of the relatively 
large amounts of memory needed to 
keep track of each dot on the screen. 



With a bit-mapped system, each 
display dot is uniquely associated 
with a bit or bits in the display 
memory. For a monochrome display, 
a bit specifies whether a dot is on or 
off; for a color display, the bits 
specify the color (3 bits for eight col- 
ors) of the dot. (Making a color dot 
the same color as its background ef- 
fectively turns it off.) Text and 
graphics information are converted 
once, on receipt, into a dot pattern 
and stored in the bit map. At display 
time, the bit-mapped memory is 
simply read directly to the display. 

A bit-mapped architecture pro- 
vides a flexible display on which 
practically all display features can be 
performed under software control. A 
bit map of 240 by 240 dots requires 
29K bytes of memory and will display 
Prestel characters with the same 
resolution provided by a character 
generator with a lK-byte page store. 
Despite this inefficiency, many 
microcomputers are available whose 
character generators do not have the 
capabilities for displaying Prestel 



characters but do have either a re- 
definable character set or bit-mapped 
graphics that can be used for Prestel. 
Future generations of videotex, men- 
tioned later, will need a bit map for 
high-resolution graphics and photo- 
graphic displays. It may then be 
desirable to implement alphamosaic 
characters on the same display. 

When a displayable character code 
is received, each character line is 
fetched by the processor from the 
character matrices in memory. Each 
bit representing foreground or back- 
ground color is converted to a full dot 
color (3 bits) and modified according 
to the attributes effective at the cur- 
rent display position. The resulting 
dot information is written into the 
bit-mapped display. A flowchart 
outlining the decoding process is 
shown in figure 3. 

The receipt of a single serial at- 
tribute code can generate a lot of 
writing into the bit map. For exam- 
ple, on a previously blank row a new 
background code has the effect of fill- 
ing the rest of the row with a new 





TO ORDER BY PHONE: 

In California (805) 482-9829 

Outside California TOLL FREE [800)821-4479 



MegaPlus & l/O-PIus 2 
The Ultimate Expansion for IBM PC or XT 



The AST Research MegaPlus'" has three func- 
tions standard: Parity checked and fully socketed 
memory up to 256k in 64k increments, clock/ 
calendar vvith battery back-up for automatic 
loading of time and date when the computer is 
turned on: at id asynchronous communication 
port (RS232C serial) which can be used as 
COM1 or COM2, |DTE for a printer, or DCE for 
a modern). Also included is SuperDrive™ elec- 
tronic disk' software. This piogram builds "disk 
drives" in memory which access your programs 
at the speed of RAM memory And you get 
SuperSpooier", punt spooling software 

Options include a 100% IBM compatible 
parallel printer port (can be configured as LPT1, 
or LPT2), and a second RS232C asynchronous 
poit (COMi oi COM2) The MegaPak 1 " option 
plugs into your MegaPlus "piggyback" style to 
give you an additional 1 28k or 256k of memory. 



I/O-Plus 2, is the answer for those who 
don't need additional memory but would like 
all those other multi-function board features. 
The l/O-Plus 2 comes standard with a clip-on 
battery powered clock/calendar, an asynchro- 
nous communication port (RS232C serial), Su- 
perDrive™ electronic disk, and SuperSpooier'" 
print spooling software 

Optional is a second asynchronous port 
|DTE, or DCE), a parallel printer adapter, and 
the best game paddle adapter on the market. It 
is an IBM standard game port, but it can also 
use Apple compatible paddles and joysticks 

Both boards come witfi a one year factory 
warranty and the Qubie' satisfaction guaran- 
tee If for any reason you are not satisfied with 
the performance of your board within thirty 
days of purchase, you may return it for a full 
refund, including the postage to return it. 



PRICES: 
I/O-Plus 2'" with Clock/calendar, asyn- 
chronous communication adapter, Super- 
Drive™ and SuperSpool'" - S129 
MegaPlus'" with memory, clock, async. 
SuperDrive™ and SuperSpool™ - $289 

OPTIONS: 
64k upgrades, installed and tested $50 
Parallel Printer Port S35 

Second Asynchronous Port S35 

Game Adapter (I/O-Plus 2 only) S35 

MegaPak'" with 256k of Memory S349 
with 128k of Memory SI 79 
2 year extended warranty S50 

ConnectAII Cable Bracket SI 9 

Cable to Parallel Printer $35 

Cable to Modem or Serial Printer $25 

Comprehensive Diagnostics Programs SI0 
SUPERWRITER by Sorcim S239 

SUPERCALC by Sorcim $159 

dBASE II by Ashton-Tate $419 

SHIPMENT: 
Normal shipment is day after receipt of 
order. We pay UPS surface charges, 2 day 
air service $5 extra. 

QUBIE 
DISTRIBUTING 

4809 Calle Alto, Camarillo, CA 93010 
European Inquiries: 

129 Magdalen Rd., London, SW18, England 
Phone (01) 870-8899 



70 July 1983 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Circle 449 on Inquiry card. 




Stay in touch 
with the world 
anywhere you go. 

Plug into the largest information 
banks ever compiled, with the inex- 
pensive and easy-to-use RCA Videotex 
Terminal. 



Electronic news . . . stock market 
updates direct to home or office . . . 
published articles . . . government 
and industry reports . . . electronic 
mail . . . there's hardly anything going 
on, anywhere in the world, that can't 
be captured by giant computers, 
ready to be examined at the touch of 
a button. But until recently, these vast 
resources were available only to a 
select few: those having access to the 
largest computers and the skill to 
use them. 

Suddenly, that's all changed. Now 
the information of the world is availa- 
ble to anyone who can tap out a few 
words on a keyboard. The reason: an 
extraordinary piece of portable equip- 
ment that weighs less than six pounds, 
takes no special training to operate, 
and gives you instant access to the 
world's major information and commu- 
nication services. 

The RCA VP3501 Videotex Terminal. 

With the VP3501 , you don't need a 
personal computer. If you have a tele- 
phone and a TV set, you have every- 
thing you need to get in touch with the 
incredible range of services at Compu- 
Serve, The Source, the Dow Jones 
News/Retrieval Service and others. 

The world of videotex. 

A subscription to such services 
gives you ready access to literally thou- 



sands of "menu" selections covering 
subjects of vital interest. 



■■■ 


\ 


■ 

■•■«"■' 


v. 

_ 



• Read electronic editions of impor- 
tant newspapers and magazines, 
right on your TV screen . . . national 
and international news . . . weather, 
sports . . . direct from the newswires. 

• Research almost any subject in 
depth . . . with published articles . . . 
government and industry reports 
. . . other authoritative sources. 

• Keep up with the world of finance 
. . . latest stock market prices . . . 
commodity reports . . . market 
and business commentaries . . . 
detailed information on thousands 
of publicly held companies. 

• Send and receive electronic mail 
with other subscribers nationwide, 
including private person-to-person 
communication at less cost than a 
long distance phone call. 

• Bank and shop at home . . . choose 
from thousands of electronically 
catalogued items . . . made availa- 
ble at discounted prices. 

• Enjoy a wide selection of home serv- 
ices, including dozens of challeng- 
ing games to test your family's playing 
skills. 



Quick and easy start-up. 

The VP3501 is as easy to use as a 
video game. Just follow the easy-to- 
understand instructions you get in the 
User's Guide. Connect the VP3501 
to your phone and TV set, turn it on, 
touch a few keys, and you're in direct 
contact with a whole new world of 
information. 

Other VP3501 applications. 

The VP3501 may also allow you to 
communicate with your company or 
school computer, in addition to the 
many subscription services available. 
There are expansion interfaces for a 
printer and cassette recorder. These 
features can provide you with hard 
copy and a full cassette of down- 
loaded information for review off-line, 
at your convenience. You can even 



write and run your own programs on 
host computers. In addition to the 
built-in direct connect modem and RF 
modulator, the VP3501 has 58-key 
alphanumeric and 16-key calculator 
keypads . . . resident and user-defina- 
ble character sets. Color-locking cir- 
cuitry provides sharp graphics . . . 
and there are programmable tones 
from a white noise generator. 

Order now: only $399. 

V\fe know of no comparable videotex 
data terminal available today at this 
low price. The VP3501 terminal 
comes with basic cables and connec- 
tions for your TV set and telephone 
(with certain phones, the optional 
RCA acoustical coupler may be neces- 
sary), and the illustrated User's Guide 
with comprehensive instructions. 
Order now and you'll also get a free 
hourof connect timefrom CompuServe, 
The Source and the Dow Jones News/ 
Retrieval Service. Try the VP3501 for 
just 10 days. If not completely satis- 
fied, you can return it to RCA for a 
full refund. 

Call toll-free: 800-233-0094. 

In Pennsylvania, call collect to 71 7- 
393-0046. Visa and MasterCard 
orders are accepted by phone or mail 
your order direct to RCA Microcom- 
puter Products, Dept., BY-383 , Cus- 
tomer Service, New Holland Avenue, 
Lancaster, PA 17604. Be sure to 
include name and shipping address, 
telephone, and payment: $399.00 
each, plus $3.00 each shipping, plus 
applicable state and local taxes. Send 
check or money order payable to RCA 
Corporation. Prices and specifica- 
tions subject to change without notice. 



I1CJ1 



Circle 348 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 71 



/start when \ 

yCODE RECEIVEDy 



ACTION ON RECEIPT 
OF CONTROL CODE 







YES 


yT IS IT \ 

,/CLEAR SCREEN\ 






YES 


^\ P yr 


CLEAR CHARACTERS 
CLEAR ATTRIBUTES 
CLEAR MARKERS 


[no 


1 


', 


yT IS IT ^V 
/ A CURSOR \, 






NO 


\v CONTROL yS 


SET row a 
COLUMN COUNT 


[no 


1 


m 


/S IS IT \. 
/ ESCAPE \, 




t. 


V p y*_ 

[YES 




SET CONTROL 
FLAG 



















ACTION ON RECEIPT 
OF ATTRIBUTE CODE 



( RETURN J 




INCREMENT 
ACTIVE POSITION 



( RETURN j 






Figure 3: A flowchart of the Prestel decoding process. Each code received causes one pass through the flowchart. 



background color (up to 40 charac- 
ters times 60 dots per character equals 
2400 dots). If the double-height at- 
tribute has been set previously, two 
rows of characters (4800 dots) would 
have to be written. That is a lot of 
data to be transferred in the interval 
between two codes of 10-ms length. 

The decoding can be kept relatively 
straightforward for a page of infor- 
mation being written from the top left 
to the bottom right on a previously 
cleared display. This is the case for 
Prestel information-retrieval pages. 



The decoding processor needs only to 
accumulate knowledge of attributes 
affecting the current position. 

The situation becomes more critical 
if the active position moves backward 
and an addition or modification is 
made to the page. Then it is necessary 
to know the character and attributes 
at this position and the range of the 
effects of these attributes. It is not 
possible to determine this informa- 
tion from the bit map. Therefore, it is 
necessary to keep a record of how the 
page was created. This can take the 



same form as a character page store. 
When a new code is sent to a row, the 
entire row must be decoded and re- 
written into the bit map. 

Alternatively, an array must be 
kept of the displayable characters and 
attributes set for each character posi- 
tion. Another array, known as the 
marker memory, has a location for 
each character and a flag bit for each 
attribute type. This indicates where 
attribute changes occurred and sets 
the limit of propagation for each at- 
tribute type. With this arrangement, 



72 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 145 on inquiry card. 



:■■>,;:.. 



PERFORMANCE 
ACCESSORIES 



In the fast moving, high 
technology world ot 
microcomputers, the need 
for high performance 
accessories often gets 
overlooked. 

Discwasher, recognized as a 
world leader in audio/video care 
accessories, understands this 
need and has developed a line of 
computer accessories to allow users 
to get the most from their computer 
hardware. 

The easy-to-use Discwasher' Disk 
Drive Cleaner is both a problem 
preventer and problem solver. Its dry 
format safely cleans single or double- 
sided drives without altering the delicate 
head alignment or doing possible damage 
to rubber drive parts with solvents. 

The Discwasher' Computer Cassette Drive 
CareSet,* is a total maintenance package for 
your cassette drive system. It includes both 
the Discwasher" Computer Cassette Drive Head 
Cleaner and the Computer Cassette Drive Mechanism 
Cleaner. Together, these two maintenance units 
can keep the high resolution heads and the critical 
drive system ot your cassette drive system in 
optimum performance. 

The Discwasher" DiscKeeper,* is a magnetically 
shielded storage system for floppy disks that 
takes up no more space than conventional folder 
packs. DiscKeeper protects against stray 
magnetic fields which can destroy valuable 
software. Three DiscKeeper sizes provide loss- 
free storage and protection for transporting any 
size disk format. 






\-\ ^> 



discwasher 

1407 NORTH PROVIDENCE ROAD, P.O. BOX 6021, DEPT. BY, COLUMBIA, MO 65205 USA 



A DIVISION OF .II \SI A 



a) 

CODES RECEIVED CS, T. E, X, T. ESC. 4«H . S, T, R, I. N. G 



MARKER 
RECORD 

DISPLAY , 
RECORD ( 


r 
^ 


_J< 

O-l 

o u. 

UJ „ 

fcg 

i£ 

Sp 


T 


E 


1 
X 


1 

T 


l 
Sp 


_1< 

O-l 

OU- 

U) o 

^z 

-ICO 

CD u_ 

s 


T 


1 
R 


1 


l 

N 


1 
G 



PRESTEL DISPLAY 



b) 
CODES RECEIVED APR. ESC. 44i 



MARKER 
RECORD 




ir 

o» 

-j< 

O-l 
OH- 


O-J 
Oil. 


i 


l 


1 


' 


a: 

°S 
_i< 

O-l 

ou. 


' 


l 


1 


' 


l 


DISPLAY 


f 


eg 

*o 
£ ti- 


_JO 

m u. 






















RECORD s 
































Sp 


T 


E 


X 


T 


Sp 


S 


T 


R 


1 


N 


G 































NOTE THE COLOR OF 
'TEXT' IS CHANGED 
BY ONE COMMAND. 
THE COLOR FLAG AT 
'S' IS NOT REMOVED 
ALTHOUGH ALL 
CHARACTERS ARE 
BLUE 



PRESTEL DISPLAY 



C) 
CODES RECEIVED APR, ESC, 42 H 



MARKER 
RECORD 

DISPLAY; 
RECORD \ 


f 


tr 

O O 

-i< 

O _J 

ou_ 

IP 

Sp 


_J< 
O-J 
Oli_ 

a 

UJ o 

tr ll 

T 


E 


i 
X 


T 


i 
Sp 


CUD 

_J< 
O -1 

O Ll 

UJ O 
ZJZ 
-JO 

CO u_ 

S 


i 

T 


R 


I 

1 


N 


i 
G 



THE RED FOREGROUND 
PROPAGATES TO THE 
'S' FLAG. 



PRESTEL DISPLAY 



Figure 4: A diagram showing the immediate effect of a serial attribute and the need for 
attribute-marker flags. The notation 4/4 is the equivalent of 44 hexadecimal. 



characters, attributes, and attribute 
ranges can quickly be found without 
having to decode the whole row. It is 
not possible to determine the range of 
an attribute from the attribute value 
alone (see figure 4). 

Flashing characters are difficult to 
implement on a bit-mapped display. 
The area to be flashed can be rewrit- 
ten at the flash rate, but this takes a 
noticeable time for large areas, not 
the desired instantaneous change. A 
technique that gives a limited flash 
capability is to use an extra bit plane 
and a color lookup table. Dots that 



are to be flashed have the extra bit 
set, and the corresponding locations 
in the color table are alternately 
rewritten. The color that the char- 
acter flashes to can be black or, if 
only eight foreground /background 
combinations are to be flashed, a true 
flash to background color can be 
achieved. When pairs of colors are al- 
ternated in this way, the facility is 
called blinking. 

Microcomputer Displays 

Some microcomputers have a com- 
plete Prestel display capability, such 



as the popular BBC microcomputer 
with its teletext /Prestel character gen- 
erator. The Apple II computer can be- 
come a Prestel terminal with the addi- 
tion of an Appletel card. The majori- 
ty of microcomputers in use today 
can display the basic textual informa- 
tion, although they don't permit all 
the Prestel features. 

The primary requirement is the 
ability to display 24 rows of 40 char- 
acters. If this is not the normal dis- 
play format of the computer, it may 
be possible to represent the page 
using bit-mapped graphics. If you 
have less than 24 rows on your com- 
puter's display, this can be overcome 
by scrolling or splitting the page 
display. 

Most microcomputers can display 
the text characters that make up the 
core of the ISO alphanumeric char- 
acters. For characters that do not 
exist in the computer and for which 
there is no suitable substitute, the 
delete (DEL, 7/15, or 7¥ hexadecimal) 
character can be used. It is important 
to display a character for every char- 
acter or attribute code transmitted in 
order to preserve the page layout. 

The mosaic graphics were origi- 
nated for use by teletext /videotex and 
do not exist on many microcomputer 
displays. It may be possible to make 
good substitutions, for example, 
using the block graphics of the 
TRS-80 Model I/III. Computers with 
redefinable character sets, such as the 
IBM Personal Computer, should have 
few problems simulating all the Pres- 
tel characters. With the Apple II, 
another approach might be using bit- 
mapped high-resolution graphics. 
Representing all mosaic characters 
with a simple character such as an 
asterisk at least gives an outline of the 
graphics. 

Implementing the various attri- 
butes presents more of a problem. Be- 
ing able to display characters using 
the foreground color adds greatly to 
the presentation of the page. 



European Videotex 

Prestel is a subset of the new Euro- 
pean videotex recommendation pub- 
lished in 1981 and, as a subset, is the 
most inexpensive to implement. The 



74 July 19*3 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 171 on inquiry card. 



d:ril!i:i1IUkW:?ilHJ:U: 



DOZEN! 



imiimiimmtmm 



13 Good Reasons to Buy 
the 





it 




f. Apple® 11-compatible 

2. CP/M -compatible 

3. 128KofRAM 

4. Built-in floppy disk drive 
3. Disk controller 

6. 80 column card 

7. Serial interface 

8. Parallel interface 

9. Upper and lower case 
a VisiCalc® keys 

■" f - Cursor control pad 
< Numeric pad 
Auto repeat keys 




fciSSSSS 



Extras can more than double the price of your per- 
sonal computer. Not so with the Franklin ACE 1200. 
It's the professional computer system that includes 
the extras — and a long list of exclusive Franklin 
features that make it the most extraordinary value on 
the market today. 

The ACE 1200 has everything you'll need 

to add a color or black and white monitor, 
modem, printer, back-up disk drive and 
other accessories. You can choose from 
the enormous selection of Apple programs 
and peripherals because the ACE 1200 is 
hardware- and software-compatible with 



the Apple II. And, with the built-in CP/M card, you 
can run both Apple II and CP/M programs. Franklin's 
CP/M operates three times as fast as many com- 
peting systems, drastically reducing processing 
time for most business applications. 

The Franklin ACE 1200 — the most extraordinary value 



on the market today. Call or write today for 
the name of your local authorized Franklin 
dealer. 

Franklin ACE is a trademark of Franklin Computer Corporation. 
Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 
CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research Inc. 
VisiCalc is a registered trademark of Visi Corp. 



COMPUTER CORPORATION 



2738 Route 38, Cherry Hill, NJ 08002 609-482-5900 Telex: 837-385 



Picture Prtfttl 64781411k Op 




MUTIL KQHlt Fp@e M$ t §§& 




An attractively designed 4 btdroom 
detached houtt . A fpacloui kitchen 
and brtak<as< room, large loungt S. 
dining trti on the ground floor. 

Upstairs mrm three roomy bedrooms, 
option room, bathroom and shower 
room all well 

laid out for P^^Sfiffi MP 
family living. HLr \. ■^ 




HQEB : KQQK IShjC^? 




SOLE AGENTS | Buttl|(l J" 
a floor plan 





64781459k 

Rt. Hon. Margaret Thatcher M.P. 

Born 1925. Educated Grantham High 
School and Somerville Col lege, Oxford 
earch chemist 1947-51. 
Mr r is t e r Lincons Inn Bar 1953 
MP. for Finchley 1959-74. 
M.P. for Finchley and Barnet 1974- . 
Sec. State for 
Education and 
Science 1970-74. 
Prime Minister 
and First Lord 
of Treasury 
1979- . 



key 1 for- indSK 




Photo 3: Experimental photographic-videotex pages from Picture Prestel. 

76 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



CEPT (Committee European des 
Postes et Telephones) TCD 6/1 rec- 
ommendation is supported by 26 
European countries and is being im- 
plemented by many of them. 

Future European videotex ter- 
minals will have many enhanced text 
and graphics features as well as being 
able to display existing databases. An 
efficient character-generator display 
chip using a stack architecture for at- 
tributes is being developed that uses 
only 2K bytes of display memory. A 
repertoire of 331 text characters and 
151 graphics characters is provided. 
Dynamically redefinable character 
sets (DRCS) infinitely extend the 
repertoire by allowing character 
shapes to be sent from the database. 
Extra attributes include double-width 
and double-size characters, and sim- 
ple animation effects can be achieved 
using three phases of flashing. Dis- 
play colors are chosen from four 
palettes of eight colors, all of which 
can be defined by the database. 

The alphamosaic/DRCS recom- 
mendation is part of a basic protocol 
to which new videotex techniques 
will be continually added as they 
emerge. A geometric graphics facility 
is currently being included, based on 
the highly favored graphics kernel 
system (GKS) that is expected to 
shortly become the ISO computer- 
graphics standard. Several classes of 
implementation are envisioned — 
ranging from simple incremental line 
drawing for a telewriting terminal to 
beyond GKS to multiple display 
planes and animation. 

The GKS scheme uses a unit-coor- 
dinate system similar to NAPLPS. 
Points can be defined in terms of 
direct or relative coordinates or by 
using incremented coding (with incre- 
ments of the screen size). The power- 
ful, generalized GKS primitives of 
polymarker (polypoint with a range 
of point types), polyline, and poly- 
gon are used. The transformation 
primitives of translation, scaling, and 
rotation are also included. A part of a 
graphics image can be specified as a 
segment and then transformed as a 
whole. An infill command, as well as 
the normal filled polygon command, 
lets an area be filled from a seed point 
to a defined color boundary. 



When critics rate you tops, what do you do for an encore? 




"VISUAL 50 is in a class by itself 
for visual quality; the character set 
is unusually clear and sharp." * 

"The VISUAL 50 is the most prom- 
ising new terminal to come out so 
far, especially in light of its price."* 

"We consider this terminal to be 
one of today's best products in price/ 
performance, its incorporation of 
economically designed features and 
its broad range of functionality. "** 



Feature Comparison Chart * 


ADDS VISUAL 

Feature 60 50 


TeleVideo Zenith 
925 19 


Wyse 
100 


Style 4 4 


4 3 


5 


Overall Quality 2 5 


3 4 


3 


Keyboard 3 5 


2 4 


2 


Rollover/false keying 5 5 


3 4 


4 


Video Quality 1 5 


4 4 


3 


No. of attributes 5 5 


5 2 


5 


Attribute method 2 5 


2 4 


2 


Suitability for micros 2 5 


3 5 


3 


24 39 


26 30 


27 


List Price $895 695 


995 895 


995 



'MICROSYSTEMS-March 1983 

'THE ERGONOMICS NEWSLETTER-August 1982 




Meet the 
VISUAL 55 






The VISUAL 50, widely acclaimed 
as the best performing low cost 
terminal in the industry, is a 
tough act to follow. But the 
new VISUAL 55 extends 
its predecessor's per- 
formance even further by adding 
12 user-programmable non- 
volatile function keys, extended 
editing features and selectable 
scrolling regions ("split screen"). 

Both the VISUAL 50 and 
VISUAL 55 offer features you 
expect only from the high priced 
units. For example, the enclosure 
is ergonomically designed and 
can be easily swiveled and tilted 
for maximum operator comfort. 
A detached keyboard, smooth 
scroll, large 7 x 9 dot matrix 
characters and non-glare screen 
are only a few of the many human 
engineering features. 

Another distinctive feature of the 
VISUAL 50 and VISUAL 55 is their 




emulation capa- 
bility. Both terminals are 
code-for-code compatible with the 
Hazeltine Espirit,™ ADDS View- 
point," Lear Siegler ADM3A and 
DEC VT52f In addition, the 
VISUAL 55 offers emulations of the 
Hazeltine 1500/1510 and VISUAL 
200/210. Menu-driven set-up modes 
in non-volatile memory allow easy 
selection of terminal parameters. 
And you're not limited to mere 
emulation. Unbiased experts 
rate the combination of features 
offered by the VISUAL 50/55 fam- 
ily significantly more attractive 
than competitive terminals. 



Both VISUAL terminals are 
UL and CSA listed and exceed 
FCC Class A requirements and 
U.S. Government standards for 
X-ray emissions. 

Call or write for full details. 



See for yourself 

Visual Technology Incorporated 

540 Main Street, Tewksbury, MA 01876 

Telephone (617) 8S1-5000.Telex 951-539 

Circle 434 on Inquiry card. 



Eye-Guard... 

the only anti-glare screen shield* 

made with lead 

to prevent eye-fatigue 

and other problems 

from working with 

computer terminals. 



If you regularly work with a 
computer terminal, a word 
processor, or spend long hours 
in front of video monitors, 
chances are you frequently 
suffer some form of eye 
strain or headache. 

Eye-Guard Leaded Acrylic 
Anti-Glare Screen Shields 
eliminate the burning, 
watery eyes or other 
symptoms of eye-fatigue 
which may be caused by 
working in close proximity 
to computer terminals or 
other forms of CRTs. 

The new Eye-Guard anti-glare 
screen shield is made of 
strong, impact-resistant, 
lead-impregnated acrylic. 
They're identical to the 

•Attaches to any computer terminal 
with convenient Velcro T " tabs. 

V 



FOR NAME OF YOUR 
NEAREST DEALER, 



CALL (800) 

221-7070 

IN NEW YORK STATE, 
CALL (212)989-6876 




material used as windows 
by nuclear power plants and 
hospital x-ray facilities to 
protect personnel. And, 
even though Eye-Guard screen 
shields contain 30% lead (by 
weight), they're safe to 
handle and are completely 
transparent. 

Supplied complete with 
convenient Velcro™ tabs, 
Eye-Guards attach quickly 
and easily to most computer 
monitor screens. Attach one 
to your computer terminal 
and see how fast it'll 
relieve your eyefatigue. 

EyeGuard Anti-Glare Leaded 
Acrylic Screen Shields are 
available at fine computer 
and office supply stores 
nationwide. Visit the one 
nearest you today and get 

an Eye-Guard for your 

computer terminal 

lntwosizes,9 1 /2"xll!/ 2 " 
or 10" x 13," suggested 
retail price, $129.95 

Also available without 
anti-glare filter, suggested 
retail price, $119.95 



For the name of your 
nearest dealer, call 
(800) 221-7070. 

in New York State, call 
(212) 989-6876. 

(Dealer inquiries invited) 



•:•:• 



LcinglCy-St.CIlclir Instrumentation Systems, Inc. 
132 W. 24th St., New York, NY 10011 



The greatest advance in videotex- 
display technology has been the de- 
velopment of photographic videotex. 
This is the inclusion of a still color 
photograph of telecast television 
quality in a videotex page, as shown 
in photo 3. Photographic videotex is 
the introduction of digital television 
technology to videotex. 

The problem with photographic 
images is that their large information 
content takes a long time to transmit. 
A studio-quality picture represents 
more than 1 megabyte of informa- 
tion. In a photographic videotex sys- 
tem, the image is represented by 
luminance (intensity) and chromi- 
nance (color) sample values and is 
digitally compressed for database 
storage and transmission. The experi- 
mental Picture Prestel system allows 
for pictures up to one-sixth of the 
display area to be transmitted in 15 
seconds over a 4.8K bps telephone 
link. Two coding techniques are used: 
differential pulse code modulation 
(DPCM) and a Hadamard transform, 
each providing a compression of 2:1. 
The latter technique gives a multiscan 
buildup providing a crude image 
quickly, which is then refined. A pro- 
tocol to define the various photo- 
graphic videotex image parameters 
and data is being added to the Euro- 
pean recommendation. 

The Goal 

From the simple text and graphics 
terminals for information retrieval, 
now emerging are highly advanced 
graphics and photographic videotex 
terminals for use in a comprehensive 
information-communication system . 
The videotex terminal of the future 
will be capable of displaying a com- 
plete electronic version of the printed 
page and should also allow for such 
pages to be created and sent to other 
terminals. Prestel is a videotex system 
that can evolve to meet new service 
needs while incorporating technologi- 
cal innovations. ■ 



About the Author 

Graham Hudson is responsible for advanced 
videotex terminal development at British 
Telecom Research Laboratories (Martlesham 
Heath, Ipswich IP5 7RE, England) and is the 
United Kingdom's representative at CEPT. 



Circle 232 on Inquiry card. 



MWf;K-. '■*■ *S#ffs-i.""\" H" 



i i 



Jt 




\ U : 



ZZi\ 








last night, compuserve turnedthis 

Computer Into ATravel Agent For Jennie, 

A Stock Analyst For Ralph, And Now, 

It's Sending Herbie To Another Galaxy. 



NO MATTER WHICH COMPUTER 

YOU OWN, WE'LL HELP YOU GET 

THE MOST OUT OF IT. 

If you've got places to go, 
CompuServe can save you time and 
money getting there. Just access the 
Official Airline Guide Electronic 
Edition— for current flight schedules and 
fares. Make reservations through our 
on-line travel service. Even charter 
a yacht through "Worldwide Exchange." 

If your money's in the market, 
CompuServe offers a wealth of 



prestigious financial data bases. 
Access Value Line, or Standard and 
Poor's. Get the latest information on 
40,000 stocks, bonds or commodities. 
Then, consult experts like IDS 
or Heinold Commodities. All on line 
with CompuServe. 

Or if, like Herbie, intergalactic 
gamesmanship is your thing, enjoy the 
best in fantasy, adventure, and space 
games. Like MegaWars, the ultimate 
computer conflict. 

To get all this and more, you'll 



need a computer, a modem and 
CompuServe. CompuServe connects with 
almost any personal computer, terminal, 
or communicating word processor. 
To receive an illustrated guide to 
CompuServe and learn how you can 
subscribe, contact or call: 

CompuServe 

Consumer Information Service 

2180 Wilson Road, Columbus, Ohio 43228 

800-848-8199 

In Ohio, call 614-457-8650 



Circle 90 on inquiry card. 



An H&R Block Company 



BYTE July 1983 79 




^ 



Shown are IBM-PC* compatible programs. The Columbia VP portable runs MS-DOS* plus five other operating systems. 




INTRODUCING THE 
COLUMBIA VP PORTABLE . 
IBM-PC COMPATIBILITY 

AT AN AFFORDABLE 

PRICE. 



World Headquarters: 


West Coast: 


Europe: 


Call our distributor nearest you. 




9150 Rumsey Road 


3901 MacArthur Blvd. 


Limitenstr. 94 


Access Systems Advanced Management 


Peripherals Plus, Inc. 


Columbia, MD 21045 


Suite 211 


4050 Moenchengladbach 2 


Wellesley, MA Systems 


Montreal, Quebec, Canada 


(301)992-3400 


Newport Beach, CA 92660 


West Germany 


(617) 237-7743 Aurora, CO 


(514)849-7533 


TWX 710-862-1891 


(714)752-5245 
Telex 277778 


02166-47097 

Telex 852452 


(303) 752-2972 


N.I. D.I. (National Instru- 
ment Distribution Inc.) 
Dayton, OH 
(513)435-4503 



Distributors in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Colombia, Denmark, Hong Kong, Israel, Italy, Malaysia, Netherlands- Antilles, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, 
Switzerland, United Kingdom, Venezuela. 



Ahead in industry compatibility. 

Today, the Columbia VP por- 
table takes on hundreds of IBM-PC 
compatible software programs and 
IBM-PC add-ons or peripherals. 

What's more, six other Columbia- 
supported operating systems are 
available - CP/M-80: CP/M-86* 
(Concurrent CP/M-86; OASIS-16* and 
XENIX* available soon) — stretching 
the Columbia VP's software com- 
patibility beyond any other personal 
computer you can buy. 

Get started with thousands of 
dollars worth of software FREE. 

Every Columbia VP portable is 
shipped with fully supported soft- 
ware that will save you thousands 
of dollars on your initial purchase. 
That means your Columbia is up 



and running right out of the box. 
Included is: 



Perfect Writer 
Perfect Filer™ 
MS-DOS," with 

RAM disk 
Macro/ 86 Assembler 
MS-BASIC" 
Diagnostics 
Space Commanders™ 
Fast Graphs" 



Perfect Speller 

Perfect Calc™ 

BASICA" 

Asynchronous Com- 
munications Support 

Columbia Tutor 

Home Accountant 
Plus™ 

CP/M-86" 



Full feature performance at an 
affordable price. 

The Columbia VP portable 
features an 8088 16 -bit CPU, 128K 
RAM, (additional 128K, optional). 
640K in dual disk drives, one IBM-PC 
compatible expansion slot, one 
serial and one parallel I/O, IBM-PC- 
compatible keyboard, and a 9" 
built-in monitor with graphics. 

The best news of all is the price: 
$2,995— including software. And 



the Columbia is built with lasting 
value in mind. Rugged single board 
design plus the flexibility to expand 
and personalize your Columbia VP. 

Made in U.S.A.— supported 
worldwide. 

All Columbia hardware and soft- 
ware are backed by our dealers and 
distributors worldwide with national 
service provided by Bell & Howell. 
Call for the name of the dealer in 
your area. Let us show you a whole 
new world of performance and value. 



COLUMBIA 



DATA PRODUCTS, INC. 



Circle 79 on inquiry card. 



Commercial Computer Sales 
Atlanta, GA 
(404)256-9190 

Renaissance Technology 
Corp. 

Concord, CA 
(415)676-5757 



Compatible Data Systems, Inc. MP Systems 
Rochester, NY Dallas, TX 

(315)437-3909 (214)385-8885 

Southeastern Data Commercial Computer 

Products Sales 

Lynchburg, VA Miami, FL 

(804)237-6286 (305)266-9569 

Perfect Software, Perfect Writer, Perfect Speller. Perfect Filer, and Perfect Calc are trademarks of Perfect Software, Inc. Home Accountant Plus is a trademark of Continental 
Software Company. Fast Graphs is a trademark of Innovative Software, Inc. IBM and IBM-PC are trademarks of International Business Machines. CP/M and MP/M are registered 
trademarks of Digital Research, Inc. OASIS is a trademark of Phase One. MS-DOS, MS-BASIC and XENIX are trademarks of MICROSOFT. 



Mid Tech Associates 
Desoto, KS 
(913)441-6565 

Tele -Terminals 
Brooklyn Park, MN 
(612)536-6045 



Mid Tech Associates 
Florissant, MO 
(314) 837-5200 

Waybem Corporation 
Garden Grove, CA 
(714)554-4520 



Micro Distributing, Inc. 
Coquitlam, B.C. Canada 
(604) 941-0622 

Tele -Terminals 
Milwaukee, WI 
(414)785-9221 



NAPLPS Standard Graphics 
and the Microcomputer 

Why a graphics standard is important and how 
it can be implemented in a microcomputer 



NAPLPS, the cacophonic acronym 
that stands for North American Pre- 
sentation-Level Protocol Syntax, is 
the coming thing in communicating 
information. To understand just why 
this proposed graphics standard is im- 
portant, well take a look at NAPLPS 
itself, the incentives for adopting it, 
how to implement it on personal 
computers, and the NAPLPS- 
compatible microcom- (i a ) 
puter products that are 
currently available. 



What Is NAPLPS? 

From its inception, 
NAPLPS was planned as a 
set of conventions that 
would allow the digital 
communication of graphic 
information (see photo 1) 
over low-bandwidth chan- 
nels — telephone lines, for 
example. More specifical- 
ly, NAPLPS provides a 
method of compressing 
pictures into a relatively 
short block of digital data. 
As a standard, it can be 
used with equipment from 
different manufacturers, 
an advantage every com- 



by Leo Lax and Mark Olsen 

puter owner can appreciate. 
Moreover, the NAPLPS encoding 
scheme is compatible with ASCII 
(American National Standard Code 
for Information Interchange), which 
is already in use by most text- 
handling digital equipment. 

NAPLPS describes screen locations 
using a virtual screen and coordinate 
system, which makes it possible to 



UIEWTROtt/PARKS 



TO t 
MUflSOH, 



CAMPING 



BLACKWATER RIUER 



MATURE 
.TRAIL, 



MATURE 
TRAIL 



SWIHi 




BLACK 
UATER 
| PARK 



Ticmcs 

TO HAROLD 



SEI1D FOR PANHANDLE INDEX 



Photo 1: NAPLPS-encoded images shown on two different 
display systems. The image in photo la is a "frame" from the 
Viewtron Videotex system using a standard home videotex ter- 
minal; resolution is 256 by 200 pixels. Photo lb (opposite page) 
shows a different NAPLPS-encoded image, displayed on a 500 
by 500 screen made by Avcor of Toronto, Ontario. 



use the same data to produce the 
same image on different machines. It 
uses PDI (picture-description instruc- 
tions; see listing 1) to define the 
geometric properties of the displayed 
picture, so the encoded result is com- 
pact. The protocol maps all codes 
into the ASCII table to maintain com- 
patibility with existing equipment 
and standards. To retain the flexibil- 
ity of a character-oriented 
(or "mosaic"-oriented) ter- 
minal, NAPLPS also in- 
corporates a mosaic defin- 
ition table (see figure 1) 
and uses a general 
character-oriented display 
technique called DRCS 
(dynamically redefinable 
character sets). 

The microcomputer in- 
dustry has several incen- 
tives to move toward 
NAPLPS. Providers of 
videotex services, observ- 
ing the success of other in- 
formation utilities in the 
personal computer mar- 
ket, view microcomputer 
owners as potential cus- 
tomers. And the wide- 
spread acceptance of 



82 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 




NAPLPS has prompted microcom- 
puter manufacturers to incorporate 
the protocol into their machines. 

Implementing NAPLPS 

You can implement the standard 
for a microcomputer through hard- 
ware, software, or a combination of 
both. Because the protocol can be 
viewed as a language and is accessible 
from other high-level languages, a 
user with a library of NAPLPS 
graphics routines can generate video- 
tex images (called frames) by using 
software alone. Users of popular soft- 
ware packages such as Visicalc will be 
able to convert their results to easily 
perceived, colorful images. On the 
other hand, technology for construct- 
ing ICs (integrated circuits) is ad- 
vanced enough that it is now possible 
to build a videotex decoder chip. 
Microcomputer users who have 
NAPLPS capability can provide 
others with information that any 
microcomputer can accept, thus over- 
coming the incompatibility of many 
popular best-selling microcomputers. 

Features and Functions 

NAPLPS allows text and pictures 
to be encoded in a manner indepen- 



dent of the display device. Pictorial 
information can be described in terms 
of points, lines, arcs, polygons, and 
incremental primitives, all on a 
Cartesian coordinate system. Thus a 
low-resolution frame can be shown 
on a high-resolution display device in 
such a way that any coarseness due to 
the encoded resolution of the frame is 
eliminated. Conversely, high -resolu- 
tion pictures are displayed at the limit 
of the resolution of the display 
device. This independence holds true 
for other picture parameters, such as 
color. 

The basic features of NAPLPS are 
the coding of text in ASCII and the 
coding of geometric images as PDIs. 
In addition, it is possible to augment 
text with supplementary characters 
and diacritical marks and to generate 
DRCS for use as alternate alphabets. 
Sequences of PDIs can be defined as 
macroinstructions before being trans- 
mitted, and you can then re-execute 
them by transmitting a simple in- 
struction rather than the whole se- 
quence. 

Coarse pictures may be drawn 
using graphics characters, which can 
have various stroke-width, texture, 
color, size, and rotation attributes. 



Colors in frames are selected from a 
palette of 16; the standard allows for 
more than 512 colors. Unprotected 
fields may be created on the screen to 
allow for user input. This combina- 
tion of features results in a method of 
communication that is at once flexible 
and straightforward. (For an in-depth 
look at the functions of NAPLPS, see 
Jim Flemming and Will Frezza's four- 
part series "NAPLPS: A New Stan- 
dard for Text and Graphics," in the 
February through May issues.) 

Designing NAPLPS Machines 

Graphics creation is taking much 
the same path that text editing has 
been following for some years. Text 
editing is now an interactive process 
in which users, whether they are pro- 
grammers or not, see the results of 



NAPLPS, Past and Present 

In past issues of BYTE we have pre- 
sented a detailed description of a very 
powerful videotex protocol, the North 
American Presentation-Level Protocol 
Syntax (NAPLPS). This article briefly 
reviews NAPLPS and explores how 
NAPLPS decoders can be integrated 
with personal computers. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 83 



Listing 1: PDIs (picture-description instructions) used to encode an image. The actual 
instructions are shown in listing la, while listing lb explains each sequence. The se- 
quence of the PDIs specifies the order in which the image is drawn; thus, newly defined 
areas may overlay previously drawn parts. In the listing, x and y refer to absolute coor- 
dinates, while dx and dy refer to relative displacements. Operands are encoded as 3 
bytes, so the whole image can be described in 108 bytes. 









(1a) 






SO (a) 


CONTROL 

green 
LINE 


(e) 


CONTROL (b) 




blue 


x and y 




RECTANGLE 


position 




x and y 


dx and dy 




position 


displacement 




dx and dy 






displacement 


POLYGON 
dx and dy 


(f) 


CONTROL (c) 


displacment 




green 


dx and dy 




POLYGON 


displacement 




x and y 


dx and dy 




position 


displacmenet 




dx and dy 






displacement 


CONTROL 


(g) 


dx and dy 


yellow 




displacement 


ARC 

x and y Start 
position 
mid 
position 




dx and dy 


end 




displacement 


position 




CONTROL (d) 


RECTANGLE 


(h) 


red 


x and y 




POLYGON 


position 




x and y 


dx and dy 




position 


displacement 




dx and dy 










displacement 


CONTROL 


(i) 


dx and dy 


white 




displacement 


POINT SET 
x and y 
position 




dx and dy 


SI 


(J) 


displacement 


house 





(1b) 

(a) Shift out (SO) to graphics mode. 

(b) Draw a blue background covering the entire display area. 

(c) Draw a green foreground using a filled 8-sided polygon instruction. 

(d) Draw the walls of the house in red using a filled 6-sided polygon instruction. 

(e) Draw a green line to define the edge of the roof. 

(f) Proceeding from the present beam position, draw the remainder of the roof using a filled 
4-sided polygon instruction. 

(g) Draw a yellow sun using the arc instruction. Fill in the area between the chord and the end 
points of the arc. 

(h) Draw a yellow door. 

(i) Set the color to white and reposition the beam ready for text. 

(j) Shift in (SI) to alphanumeric mode and write "House." 



their changes immediately. Thanks to 
the advent of microcomputers, 
NAPLPS becomes a personal tool for 
creating and manipulating images. 

A NAPLPS-compatible microcom- 
puter must provide these functions: 

• Input: keyboard, digitizing tablet, 
mouse, joystick, or a combination of 
these devices to create images 

• Processing: the computer must be 
able to interpret the input and let the 
user manipulate images 

• Output: the system should have the 
capability to both display and trans- 
mit encoded frames 

• Filing: mass-stcrage and manage- 
ment of encoded frames are useful in 
composition and planning 

While successful mosaic-type and 
DRCS-type NAPLPS decoding 
schemes have been demonstrated, bit- 
mapping is preferable for two 
reasons: it provides the picture with 
the best quality, and its software 
overhead is lower as a result of color 
independence. In most current micro- 
computers that provide color 
graphics, users must always be con- 
scious of the background color be- 
hind their images. For instance, in 
drawing a thin diagonal of a rec- 
tangle, the picture may be accurate 
only if certain colors are chosen for 
the lines and the background; the im- 
age is affected by the background col- 
or because of the way in which the 
machine's designers mapped the 
screen into memory. 

When NAPLPS is implemented in a 
bit-mapped architecture, no pixel 
(picture element) is affected by the 
color of its neighbors; background 
color and foreground color are 
neither interrelated nor interdepen- 
dent. You can lay any color from the 
palette over any other without con- 
cern for the colors of the adjacent pix- 
els. 

Some Current Implementations 

One of the first implementations of 
NAPLPS was in a dedicated decoder 
(the Norpak MK IV) that incorpor- 
ated a 6809 microproa 
videotex display general 
also produced the first 
widely used NAPLPS in 



84 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 






The new COMPAQ Portable Computer. 
IBM compatibility to go. 



@ 



I imple, isn't it? The COMPAQ™ 
Portable Computer can do 
lwhat the IBM® Personal 
Computer does. To go. 

It runs all the popular pro- 
grams written for the IBM. It 
works with the same printers and 
other peripherals. It even accepts 
the same optional expansion elec- 
tronics that give it additional 
capabilities and functionality. 

There's really only one big dif- 
ference. The COMPAQ Computer 
is designed to travel. 

Carry the COMPAQ Comput- 
er from office to office. Carry it 
home on the weekend. Or take it 
on business trips. 

If you're a consultant, take it 
to your client's office. 

If you use a portable type- 
writer, you can use the 
COMPAQ Computer as 
portable word processor 
instead. 

If your company 
already uses the 
IBM Personal 
Computer, add 
the COMPAQ 



you'd probably need to buy an 
additional display screen because 
the built-in screen is too small for 
certain tasks, like word process- 
ing. The COMPAQ Computer's 
display screen is nine inches diag- 
onally, big enough for any job, and 
it shows a full 80 characters across. 
And the built-in display offers 
high-resolution graphics and text 
characters on the same screen. 

The bottom line is this. The 
COMPAQ Computer is the first 
uncompromising portable 
computer. It delivers 
all the advantages 
of porta- 
bility 



In the standard configuration, 
the COMPAQ Computer has three 
open slots for functional expan- 
sion electronics as your needs 
and applications grow. It accepts 
standard network and commu- 
nications interfaces including 
ETHERNET™ and OMNINET™. 

If you're considering a per- 
sonal computer, there's a new 
question you need to ask your- 
self. Why buy a corn- 




Portable as a 
mobile unit that 
can use the same pro- 
grams, the same data disks, and 
even the same user manuals. 

There are more programs 
available for the COMPAQ Com- 
puter than for any other portable. 
More, in fact, than for most non- 
portables. You can buy them in 
hundreds of computer stores 
nationwide, and they run as is, 
right off the shelf. 

With most other portables 



without trad- 
ing off any com- 
puting power capability. 

And what do those advantages 
cost? 

Nothing. 

The COMPAQ Por- 
table sells for hundreds 
less than a compara- 
bly equipped IBM or 
APPLE® III. Standard 
features include 128K 
bytes of internal memory 
and a 320K-byte disk drive, 
both of which are extra-cost 
options on the IBM. Memory 
and additional disk drive up- 
grades are available options to 
double those capacities. 



puter that 

isn't portable? 

For more 

information on 

the COMPAQ 

Portable Computer 

and the location of the 

Authorized Dealer nearest 

you, write us. COMPAQ 

Computer Corporation, 12330 

Perry Road, Houston, Texas 

77070. Or call 1-800-231-9966. 



e 1983 COMPAQ Computer Corporation 

IBM* is a registered trademark of International Business 

Machines Corporation. 

ETHERNET™ is a trademark of Xerox Corporation. 

OMNINET™ is a trademark of Corvus Systems. 

Apple* is a registered trademark of Apple Computer. Inc. 

COMPAQ™ is a trademark of COMPAQ Computer 

Corporation. 




T.F'H ' rfM- TT THi 

T I I 1 I II I I It I 
J1 I I I I I I I I I I t 

V ' ' ' ' ' ' ' IftS 1 




+ 









mm 



comma 



wmmmmmmmmmmmmmm^^^ portable computer 

The mOSt Computer yOU Can Carry Circle 84 on inquiry card. 



■MBHjEn 




^^^^^^B£S 








iiiiD 

BDBDH 


DBDDDD 


D 


D 






□ 


u 


r: 


B 






Q 


1 


□ 









Q 


H 


BBflflD 
BBBDD 


n 


P 






P 


D 


B 


I] 






a 


B 


aisin 

BBBBD 


l 


E 






h 


L 


a 


■" 






a 


a 


BBBBB 

B9BBD 


H 


r 






b 


i 





a 






i 


Li 


H 


s 






a 


a 


iiaga 


J 


a 






i 


a 


1IISB 
BBBBB 
BB99B 
BBBBD 
BBBBD 


H 


7 






i 


3 


8 


r 






a 


i 


S 


e 






i 


■ 


a 


i 






4 


I 


i 


1 




■ 


1 


■ 



Figure 1: Mosaic shape table. Each of 
these blocks may be used as any normal 
ASCII character would. 



terminal — its Information Provider 
System (IPS2) — a desk-like unit that 
provides two video screens, two 



8-inch floppy-disk drives, and a small 
minicomputer to drive the videotex 
display processors and enable very 
quick frame creation, immediate- 
feedback editing, and data storage. 

There are three principal variations 
on the theme of NAPLPS implemen- 
tation in a microcomputer: the dedi- 
cated microcomputer, the add-on 
card, and the software package. One 
example of each follows. 

Norpak GC-1000: One way to im- 
plement NAPLPS in a microcomputer 
is to design the computer from the 
ground up to incorporate videotex 
hardware and a bit-mapped display. 
This unit provides the "standard" 
videotex resolution of 256 by 200 pix- 
els via an integral color video 
monitor. With custom software, RS- 
232C communications ports, and a 
keyboard with programmable keys, 
the GC-1000 is fully equipped to 
receive and display NAPLPS infor- 
mation from external sources and to 
generate frames in a stand-alone 
mode. Further, its integrated design 
includes two SVi-inch floppy-disk 
drives to store images, develop pro- 
grams, or load videotex from a 
database or other microcomputers. 
Its 6809 microprocessor and emula- 
tion of Digital Equipment Corpora- 
tion's VT52 video terminal make the 
GC-1000 an all-purpose personal 
machine rather than simply a dedicat- 
ed frame-creation or decoding device. 



Telidon Graphics System (TGS) for 
the Apple II: The Apple II TGS is an 
excellent example of a truly personal 
videotex system. It provides frame 
creation, decoding, and communica- 
tions software that enable the system 
to talk to another Apple so con- 
figured (see Rich Malloy's "Commen- 
tary: Personal Computers and 
Videotex" on page 114). Most people 
consider communications software 
crucial to a truly interactive and 
useful videotex system. 

The TGS is designed for use on Ap- 
ple II or Apple II Plus computers with 
48K bytes of RAM that run DOS 3.3 
with at least one disk drive. A modem 
data communications system would 
also be necessary for communication 
with remote Apple systems or video- 
tex databases. Fast and easy marker 
control for frame creation and editing 
can be provided with an optional 
joystick or tablet. 

The TGS package consists of an in- 
terface card, incorporating a 6809 
microprocessor with serial interface 
connector, one SVi-inch floppy disk, 
a serial-interface connector mounting 
kit, and a reference manual. 

Three graphics system programs 
are stored on the floppy disk. 
Create/Edit/Communications is a 
stand-alone program that enables the 
user to interactively create, edit, and 
communicate pictures. Also provided 
are a variety of frame-creation com- 



The Modem that Delivers 3 Ways 




1 LOW $189 PriC6. TNWspperator-103 provides fult autodial and auto- 
answer capabilities for only $189- This is an attractively packaged Bell-103 compatible 
1 10 to 300 bit per second modem, delivered complete with power supply, cabinet, 
documentation, and full one year warranty. 

2. t3S6 Of US6. Operator's commands are easy to remember, like 'Dial:' 

Answer and Hangup: And they're easy to enter — you type only the first letter of the 
command, and Operator echoes the full command word. Type "?" and Operator lists 
your command options 

3. High LSI Performance/Reliability, operate, 103 , s bum 

around the Tl 99532 modem IC. which means fewer errors on marginal telephone lines 
and reduced chance of modem failure 



Details From Dept. 9876 



TNW 



CORPORATION 



3444 Hancock Street 
San Diego. CA 921 10 



Phone (619) 296-2115 
Telex II 910-335-1194 



86 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 413 on inquiry card. 




The Juki 6100 printer. It should 
cost a lot more than $699. 



The new Juki model 6100 letter quality daisy wheel 
printer has full features you'd expect to find on a more 
expensive printer. 

It can support word processing and graphic functions, 
print 18 CPS, and use a simple drop-in daisy wheel. 

The 6100 has 10/12/15 pitch, proportional spacing, 
utilizes standard IBM Selectric typing ribbons, has 2K 
buffer memory (expandable to 8K), parallel interface, 
and both tractor feed and serial interface are available 
as options. 

That's only the beginning. 

Best of all, the low-noise Juki model 6100 is extremely 
reliable. 



You can pay more, but you can't buy a better 
printer than the Juki model 6100. 



AMERIC 



I 



Juki Industries of America, Inc. 
Head Office: 421 North Midland Avenue, 

Saddle Brook, NJ 07662. (201) 796-8800 
Branch Office: 20437 South Western Avenue, 

Torrance, CA 90501. (213) 320-9001 

Circle 224 on inquiry card. 



(2a) 



CLOCK 

GENERATION 



6809E 
PROCESSOR 



. .. . - 



c 



CONTROL 
LOGIC 



c 



<H> _*^> <v> 



ADDRESS 
DRIVERS 



ACIA 



DATA 

BI-DIRECTIONAL 

DRIVERS 



RS-232C CONNECTOR 




APPLE INTERFACE BUS 



Figure 2: Block diagrams of the Telidon Graphic Systems card (figure 2a) and how it in- 
terfaces to the Apple II (figure 2b). 



mands that concern the basic graphic 
primitives, colors, text sizes, and text 
orientation. Frames created with the 
system or those received from other 
Apple TGS systems may be edited 
with this program. 

In the Edit mode, you identify a 
graphic element and can move, erase, 
copy, or change its color. Text 
characters or lines of text may be in- 
serted and deleted. The communica- 
tions feature of the program enables 
the user to send or receive NAPLPS 
information to or from other Apple 
computers fitted with the TGS. Pic- 
ture data is available either through 
the Apple internal peripheral connec- 



tors for the Hayes Micromodem or 
through the interface card integral 
RS-232C serial interface for direct 
connection or stand-alone modems. 
A disk-file handling feature permits 
pictures to be saved, recalled, or 
deleted from the disk. 

The Videotex Terminal program 
transforms the Apple II into a 
NAPLPS videotex terminal that can 
communicate with a remote data- 
base. Through keyboard commands 
users can enter their account numbers 
or other information giving them ac- 
cess to videotex databases, call up 
database subject lists or menus, 
search through the available material 



for required information, hold it for 
review, and store locally on disk any 
pages required for later reference. 

The Graphics Routines Library 
program lets anyone experienced in 
6502 Assembler or Apple BASIC pro- 
gramming create pictures using 
routines called from the disk. The 
library routines perform a variety of 
functions such as displaying screen 
images using the drawing primitives 
or enabling data transfers through the 
serial interfaces. 

Figure 2 is a block diagram of the 
interface card and the Apple TGS 
System. 

IBM Personal Computer: There are 
three NAPLPS implementation op- 
tions for the IBM Personal Computer. 
First, a software package can be 
created to generate NAPLPS data, 
whether it's in a library or a full ap- 
plications package that, when sent 
out to a decoder, will display pic- 
tures. Such a package is available 
from Tayson Information Technol- 
ogy Ltd., a company based in 
Calgary, Canada. 

A software package designed to use 
IBM's existing graphics-displaying 
capability can be created. This would 
be available only on the computer's 
low-resolution mode because that's 
the only mode that provides full bit- 
map capability. The resulting 
NAPLPS resolution would be 160 by 
100 pixels. Although the resolution is 
lower than the usual 256 by 200, there 
is an advantage to this option: video- 
tex implementation can be packaged 
in one machine. 

Finally, a proper bit-mapped hard- 
ware display generator can be de- 
veloped for the IBM Personal Com- 
puter. This would provide a mini- 
mum resolution of 256 by 200 and all- 
in-one frame creation, editing, and 
decoding. The advantage of this op- 
tion is the PC's 8088 microprocessor, 
which provides the speed and ac- 
curacy required by NAPLPS and a 
memory-addressing capability large 
enough for the necessary code and 
video RAM (random-access read/ 
write memory). Implementing this 
option would be more cost effective 
than the same option for the Apple II 
because you can use the microproces- 
sor already in the machine to share 



88 July 1983 © BYTE Publications inc 



APPLES ABLE TO DRAW- 

WH AT NEXT 

FOR BOY WONDER? 



Tasty Sweet-P 

Graphics 

to-Go. 




Sweet-P not onm 
draws colorful pie 1 
charts, bar graphs, s 
line graphs and 
alphanumeric letter- 
ing, but illustration 
as well. On any 
type oL 



Sweet-P Software 
Offers More A pple 
Ap plications. 

Sweet-Plot™ I Software 
will have you drawing stan- 
dard graph formats within 
minutes— even if you're not 
familiar with how a 
plotter works. 
And, for drawing 




$795. Personal Plotter 
Produces A p ple Art. 

The new Sweet-P™ Personal 
Plotter™, invented 
by Whiz Kid 
Richard Murray 
will have your 
Apple' drawing 
every graphic 
you will ever 
need. 

k ^^^^ ^^Lm I addition, \ 

Sweet-P 
though^ 
comes 
complete witr^ 
SweeT-Plot I Software ai 
interface hardware, all 
an amazing $795. And'i 
because Sweet-P fits nei 
into a slimline bdsi 
you can ever 
see the fruitm 
of your labor§ 
while on the 
road. 

With Sweet-P next to your 
Apple, you guickly create, store, 
edit and draw high resolution, 
hard copy graphics that add 
color and clarity to any busi- 
ness, engineering or scientific 
presentation. 



Sweet-P polishes 
Apple's performance. 



Artistic App 
foreseen by"< 
Richard Murray, 
Enter Computer's ' 



1 Chairman 




paper or transparency material. 
At an incredible speed of 6 in- 
ches per second. And, once 
stored in memory, information 
can be drawn in any scale 
desired— even on paper up 
to 10 feet long. 

With Sweet-P you're not 
only able to draw your own 
conclusions, but com- 
municate them more 
effectively as well. 



Iplex busi- 
es graphics, there's 
it-Plot™ II Software by BPS 
limited only by your imagination. 

So, when you want to see 
Apple Art at work, just ask your 
local computer store to ^s^ 

show you the very 
tasty Sweet-P 
Personal Plotter. 




Enter Computer, Inc. 
6867 Nancy Ridge Drive 
San Diego, CA 92121 
Tel: 619-450-0601 



A Sweet-P. Sweet-Plot and Personal Plotter are trademarks ol Enter Computer Inc. * Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. ® BPS is a registered trademark ot Business Professional Software Inc. 

Circle 161 on Inquiry card. 



the burden of memory and computa- 
tional power needed for decoding. 

Other Implementations 

Intel and NEC (Nippon Electric 
Company) provide the next step in 
the NAPLPS evolution. Their GDC 
(Graphics Display Controller) chip 
(Intel 82720, NEC uPD7220) not only 
takes care of low-level details like 
refreshing the display but also accepts 
high-level commands such as Draw a 
Line, Draw an Arc, Draw a Rec- 
tangle, Draw a Character, and so on, 
and draws the dots on the screen. 



Because the processor doesn't have 
to spend time figuring which dots to 
draw, it can receive and interpret 
NAPLPS commands or process data. 

Although the GDC chip is signifi- 
cantly closer to providing NAPLPS 
capabilities in hardware than pre- 
vious display controllers, some soft- 
ware is still required to convert 
NAPLPS commands to commands 
the GDC understands. Digital Re- 
search has already introduced soft- 
ware that does this, and several other 
companies such as Norpak are de- 
veloping competing products. 



USER-FRIENDLY 



WITH THE 
MODEM U 1 



l user prompts at all levels of command entry, the 
;h Modem n makes data communications from your 
t II* or n plus* easy on even a bare bones computer. 
> keyboard dialing makes communication at HO or 
300 bps simple. 

Compatible with other smart modems and Bell 103-type 
equipment the Modem H is crystal controlled needs no serial 
interface card provides auto-dial and auto-answer and has a 
built-in speaker to monitor call progress. That means accuracy! 

For more information on the Modem II or the MT212A n™ (a 
200/300 bps full duplex modem for your Apple II), call or write! 



MULTI-TECH 



Multi-Tech Systems, Inc. 

82 - Second Avenue SE 
New Brighton, MN 55112 
(612)631/3550 




Obviously, future generations of 
VLSI (very large-scale integration) 
graphics chips will come closer and 
closer to providing the complete set 
of NAPLPS capabilities in hardware. 
Designers will offer higher and higher 
levels of system performance pro- 
viding users with faster and faster 
computer systems. They will reduce 
the number of chips required to im- 
plement a system to a minimum, re- 
ducing the cost of computing power 
to the user. Fortunately, users who 
embrace these standards will be able 
to transport software from system to 
system as they upgrade. 

Future Developments 

Several enhancements to current 
NAPLPS implementation are under 
development. 

Photographic data generation, 
storage, and transmission using 
NAPLPS has been demonstrated but 
is still in the prototype stage. The 
machine that has this feature must 
perform pattern recognition in order 
to encode the information and pat- 
tern synthesis for geometric shapes, 
but the realism required for photo- 
graphic reproduction means more 
processing power than most of 
today's consumer-priced decoders or 
microcomputers offer. 

Sound for NAPLPS, whether voice 
synthesis or musical tones, is also be- 
ing examined. One question asked is, 
Why encode sound when you can 
transmit it now by telephone? An 
answer is that if a means of encoding 
sound digitally (through bandwidth 
compression) were found, clarity of 
sound superior to that of telephone 
lines could be provided over longer 
distances. 

Animation currently presents prob- 
lems for NAPLPS implementation 
but will exist in the future. NAPLPS 
coding does not contain time-descrip- 
tor instructions. Sequences of images 
are now displayed in terms of a 
spatial domain, not a temporal one. 
Time control over NAPLPS is cur- 
rently limited to a WAIT command. 
Work is progressing on a time 
description protocol, but memory 
and calculation requirements are 
high. 

Telesoftware will be a major ap- 



90 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 288 on inquiry card. 



Circle 364 on inquiry card. 



BOTH WORLDS OF 

software runs u^^ 

d erCPM. ___ 



jeiivered 

comp* ®S PC-DOS °P- 

s tandardl6W ninclude s 

iter for word 



^MBasictolet 



EXPANDABLE bom serial 
Chameleon hasg dan . 

^ d Pf? J ranSddana( 
d^ d TiSp^orthe 

dltlon ?ifnS You can 
IEEE-488 port . v compat i- 

evenuselBM^ dsin our 



tace package 



dan 

ble to &> 
PC com 



•21 



ar e included. 



disks 



mi 









" i mrfkes it easy 
--->a£>°ut , 



The following are registered trademarks: 

CP/M-80 — Digital Research Inc- 

MS-DOS — Mlciosolt 

PC-DOS — IBM 

Perfect Writer — Perfect Soltware 

Perfect Calc — Perfect Software 

MBasic — Microsoft 



mim 



SsS.dea.er. 




aKTEJis'--- 



SEEQUA 

COMPUTER 



CORPORATION 

209 West Street 
Annapolis, MD 21401 
(301) 268-6650 
(800) 638-6066 




plication of videotex in the future. 
NAPLPS currently provides a limited 
facility to personalize or customize 
the decoder to specific applications; 
data can be communicated using a 
macroinstruction and invoked for 
local use. More useful, however, 
would be the downloading of both 
PDIs and the processes that manipu- 
late them so that users could interact 
with the pictures using someone else's 
definition of the manipulation pro- 
cess. Thus telesoftware would pro- 
vide both pictures and the tools (pro- 
grams) to manipulate them. 



Highly device-dependent telesoft- 
ware is now available. Still to come is 
a general-purpose definition of soft- 
ware such that it will run on any 
microprocessor. (The Pascal p -System 
definition provides a device-inde- 
pendent telesoftware vehicle but is 
restricted to the facilities provided in 
the Pascal language.) Although 
general-purpose telesoftware can 
never be all things to all people, 
application-dependent telesoftware 
will flourish, irrespective of the 
machine, for certain standard 
microcomputer applications. 



How ToTurn Good Ideas 
Into Good Documents. 



Unique Writing 
Spreadsheet 

FirstDrafP is a 
writing tool that 
handles text much 
as a spreadsheet 
handles numbers. 
Working with your word 
processor, it speeds and 
enhances the writing pro- 
cess helping you create 
better documents, faster. 
And, when your document 
is complete, it builds a 
table of contents and 
index. 

A Document Data Base 

DocuMentor™ 
(optional) helps 
you create writing 
templates for 
standard docu 
ments. If s a 
sophisticated 
document 



Articles 

Lectures 

Form Letters 

Legal Documents 

Engineering Specs 

Procedures 

Proposals 

Manuals 

Reports 

Novels 

Plans 

Etc. 




management 
system that helps 
you organize and 
assemble boiler- 
plate in data base 
fashion. Ifs a true 
productivity booster. 

Use It Risk-Free For 
30 Days! 

The best way to evaluate 
software Is to use it. Buy it 
today, use it for 30 days, 
and if you're not convinced 
you need it, return it for a 
full refund. 

FirstDraft $195. With 
DocuMentor Option $390 

MasterCard/VISA 
accepted. 
See your dealer 
or call 
(303)471-9875. 

833 w Colorado Ave. 
Colorado Springs. 
Colorado 80905 



If you write with a personal computer, you need 

FirstDraft ™: The Writing Spreadsheet™ and 
DocuMentor™: The Document Data Base Manager 



PromptDoc 

We invented Computer-Assisted Writing 



® 



Conclusion 

NAPLPS is an efficient protocol for 
the creation, storage, and communi- 
cation of graphic and textual infor- 
mation. Because it is hardware inde- 
pendent by design, it will be imple- 
mented on an increasing number and 
variety of consumer-oriented devices. 
Proliferation of the graphics protocol 
will reduce the cost of its implementa- 
tion as a result of such efforts as VLSI 
development, mass production, and 
old-fashioned marketing competi- 
tion. The ultimate winner in this 
logical progression is the user, who 
will be provided with the most cost- 
effective graphics-communication 
vehicle available and will have a 
choice of implementations, costs, and 
applications. The old "open system 
concept," in which anyone talks to 
anyone else on any terminal, will be 
revived, using the two newly redis- 
covered tools that make it ideal: color 
graphics and the personal 
computer. ■ 

References 

1. "Bell System Videotex Standard 
Presentation-Level Protocol," American 
Telephone and Telegraph Company, May 
1981. 

2. Bown, H.G., CD. O'Brien, W. Sawchuk, 
and J.R. Storey, "Picture Description In- 
structions (PDI) for the Telidon Videotex 
System," Canadian Department of Com- 
munications, CRC Technical Note 699-E. 

3. Bown, H.G., CD. O'Brien, J.C. Smirle, 
Y.F. Lum, and J.Z. Kukulka, "Videotex 
Presentation-Level Protocol: Augmented 
Picture Description Instructions," Cana- 
dian Department of Communications, 
CRC Technical Note 709-E. 

4. "Videotex/Teletext Presentation-Level 
Protocol Syntax (North American PLPS)," 
American National Standards Institute 
X3L2.1 Videotex/Teletext Character Sets 
Standing Task Group and CVCC/CSA 
Working Group on Videotex, T500- 
X3L2.1/82-72, June 18, 1982. 

5. International Standards Organization 
(ISO)/DP 7498, "Data Processing— Open 
Systems Interconnection — Basic Refer- 
ence Mode," Document TC 97/SC16 
N719, October 1981. 

About the Authors 

Leo Lax is Assistant Vice-President, 
marketing and sales, for Norpak Corporation 
(10 Hearst Way, Kanata, Ontario, Canada K2L 
2P4). Mark Olsen is a product marketing 
engineer for display components at Intel Cor- 
poration (3065 Bowers Ave., Santa Clara, CA 
95051). 



92 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 337 on Inquiry card. 



HANG ON 

TO TOUR HAT, 
CHARLIE... 



A 




: Corona PC's, desktop and portable, give 
you everything you've ever wanted in an IBM- 
compatible PC and more. For a great deal less. 

Compatible and more. 

The Corona PC is a 16-bit microcomputer 
based on the 8088 microprocessor, just like the 
IBM PC. And like the IBM PC, it runs any software 
that conforms to the IBM standard. 

But unlike the IBM PC, the Corona PC comes 
with 128K of memory. Supports up to 512K on the 
main board. Includes a 320K floppy drive, a com- 
munication port, a printer port and an improved 
IBM PC keyboard. 

Both the desktop and portable Corona PC's 
include high-resolution monitors and built-in 
graphics. Higher character definition makes both 
models easier to read, and our 640 x 325 pixel high- 
resolution graphics are over 60% better than the 



IBM PC. It's a complete system, the standard for 
microcomputing in the IBM-compatible world. 

You can take it with you. 

And unlike IBM, we have a portable version. 

Its high-resolution, high-contrast 9" display is 
easy to read. It has all the power and features of our 
desktop, but lets you take it to the office next door, 
across the country or just conveniently tuck it onto 
a corner of your desk. 

More expandability. 

You may never add a thing to your Corona PC 
because we've built in so much capability. 

But just in case, we've built all the important 
components into the main system board, leaving 
the four expansion slots free. And provided an extra 
large power supply to support any capabilities you 
may want to add in the future. 



; 






'. 



<■ ■ • " ■■ ■ ' 






J KB 




-*/»■< 



I 



RAM-disk for incredible speed. 

Our RAM-disk software lets you treat an area of 
your computer's memory as if it were a disk drive. 
So you can copy your programs and data into 
memory, then watch your work get done faster . 

More software. 

The Corona PC includes the MS-DOS operating 
system and comes with GW-BASIC, the MultiMate 1 
word processor and the PC Tutor 2 training course. 
So you can start being productive immediately 

And you can run Context MBA? dBASE II? 
LogiCalc 5 and LogiQuestfthe EasyFamily 6 Wordstar 7 
and the "Star" family, the SuperWare 8 series, T I.M?, 
the VisiSeries 10 and Perfect Series 11 of programs and 
most other popular software. 

And it improves your bottom line. 

The Corona Portable PC™ is $2,545, the desktop 



version is $2,595. Both about a thousand dollars 
less than the equivalent IBM PC. 

For more information, contact Corona Data 
Systems, 31324 Via Colinas, Westlake Village, 
CA 91361. (213) 991-1144. Call (800) 621-6746 
toll-free. 

Or better yet, just grab your hat and head to 
the nearest Corona PC dealer for a very convincing 

demonstration. Circle 113 on inquiry card. 



d corona 

^^* The Compatible Company 



©Corona Data Systems 1983 1: TM Softword Systems. 2. TM Comprehensive 
Software Support. 3: TM Context Management Systems. 4: TM Ashton-Tate. 
5: TM Software Products International. 6: TM Information Unlimited Software. 
7: TM Micropro. 8: TM Sorcim Corp. 9: TM Innovative Software. 10: TM Visicorp. 
11: TM Perfect Software Inc. 



Privacy and Videotex Systems 

Two-way services bring with them the potential for abuse 



by Richard M. Neustadt and M. Anne Swanson 



Midway through George Orwell's 
1984, the hero meets an old man and 
asks him how "Big Brother" got 
started. Things began to go wrong, 
the old man answered, when some- 
one invented two-way television. 

Advances in telecommunications 
promise to bring all sorts of conve- 
niences to our doorsteps. We'll be 
shopping, banking, and working 
from home. We'll have computer- 
controlled electronic mail, burglar 
and fire alarms, and medical alerts, 
among other things. But along with 
this array of new services and prod- 
ucts comes a potential for abuse. 

The possible threat to privacy that 
home video and computing services 
pose is beginning to worry some peo- 
ple. The growth of nationwide 
videotex systems, whether they 
operate over cable TV or telephone 
lines, presents two major causes for 
concern. First, companies that sell 
electronic information or provide 
transactional services such as home 
banking and shopping will be able to 
compile dossiers on their subscribers. 
This information could be misused. 
Second, the proliferation of electronic 
transfer of information raises new 
questions about wiretapping. 

Data Collection and Disclosure 

The current debate focuses on the 
collection and possible misuse of sub- 
scriber records. Most companies that 
provide videotex services generate 
files on subscriber behavior as a mat- 



ter of course. For instance, if the 
system operator provides informa- 
tion and charges his customers on a 
per-page basis, then his computer 
must keep a record of every video 
page subscribers request. If the sys- 
tem is used for transactions such as 
shopping or banking at home, the 
retailer or financial institution must 
keep a record, and the cable or tele- 
phone system operator may want to 
keep its own record as protection 
against claims of error. 

Most companies that 

provide videotex 
services generate files 
on subscriber behavior 
as a matter of course. 

Of course, similar records have 
always been collected by banks, 
hospitals, insurance companies, and 
other institutions. But with videotex 
systems, more records are being col- 
lected in one place. Moreover, com- 
puter files are easier to obtain than 
original documents. 

The concern about collection of 
records leads to another issue: the 
possible disclosure of private infor- 
mation on consumer behavior. Sys- 
tem operators may want to sell this 
data to retailers, pollsters, direct 
mailers, or credit investigators. Such 
information is commercially valu- 
able, as indicated by the similar ac- 
tive market in magazine subscription 



lists. 

The action of a theater owner in 
Columbus, Ohio — where Warner- 
Amex runs its interactive Qube ser- 
vice — is an example of data disclo- 
sure. The owner of the theater sub- 
poenaed lists of people who had 
watched "adult" movies on cable TV 
in order to defend himself against 
obscenity charges for screening those 
movies in his theater. 

Protecting Privacy 

Without a law or service contract 
to the contrary, company records 
belong to the company that collects 
them, not to the subscriber. The 
United States Supreme Court 
established this principle in 1976 
when it held that a consumer had no 
constitutionally protected interest in 
his bank records that would enable 
him to challenge their release to 
government officials. 

In the last two years, however, a 
movement has taken wing to legislate 
protections for those records. Califor- 
nia, Illinois, and Wisconsin have 
passed privacy laws, six other states 
are seriously considering such 
measures, and the U.S. Congress may 
well pass a privacy law next year. 
While most of these bills are aimed at 
cable TV, the Illinois law and several 
of the proposed bills also cover two- 
way services provided over telephone 
lines. In addition, most cable TV 
franchises issued in recent years in- 
clude privacy rules. 



96 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



MDBS III™ 
Mainframe-quality DBMS from 
Micro Data Base Systems, Inc. 
International Software Enterprises— USA 

(312) 981-9200 



ACCOUNTING PLUS™ 

A comprehensive microcomputer 

business accounting system. 
SOFTWARE DIMENSIONS, INC. 

(916) 722-8000 



QUICK CHECK™ 

Computer simplified bookkeeping 

and point of sale inventory. 

CHUCK ATKINSON PROGRAMS 

(817) 249-0166 






INMASS™ 

Integrated Manufacturing and 

Accounting Software System 

MICROCOMPUTER CONSULTANTS 

(916) 756-8104 



DATA COMMUNICATIONS 
SOFTWARE 

ASYNC, BISYNC & SNA-SDLC protocol 

data communications software. 
IE Systems, Inc. & Micro-Integration, Inc. 

(603) 659-5891 



PC/FORTH™ 

Program development systems for Z-80 
and 8086/88 microcomputers 
Laboratory Microsystems, Inc. 

(213) 306-7412 



WHEN YOU BUY 
THE RIGHT SOFTWARE, 
YOU CANT GO WRONG 
ON THE HARDWARE. 



**w£mmE 






S«i 



CP//VV compatible software— for maximum 
work power on more than 600 computer models. 

All the computers in the world won't help you without smart 
software. That's why we're showing some of the best software 
products you can buy from solid, innovative companies. They're 
shown here together because they're all CP/M compatible. CP/M is 
the universally accepted operating system created by Digital Research 
that allows software products like these to run on more than 600 
different computer models including the biggest names in hardware. 
So, to get smart software for your system, call one of the fine 
Independent Software Vendors listed above or to find out how CP/M 
can increase productivity in your world, contact Digital Research at 
(408)649-5500. 



DIGITAL 
RESEARCH 

The creators of CP/M W 



m 



< i 




i i i 



Circle 142 on inquiry card. 



M 



The logo, tagline and CP/M are either trademarks or 
registered trademarks of Digital Research Inc. 
©1982 Digital Research Inc. 



The central aim of this legislation is 
to require the system operator to ob- 
tain the subscriber's consent before 
collecting information. In most cases, 
collection without consent is allowed 
only for purposes of billing, pro- 
viding a service like at-home shop- 
ping, or protecting against 
unauthorized reception or other ser- 
vices. 

The measures vary on specifics. 
The Wisconsin law goes so far as to 
require cable operators to offer sub- 
scribers a free on-off switch control- 
ling the interactive service. Some of 
the pending bills require system 
operators to acquire liability in- 
surance to cover any suits based on 
violation of their privacy provisions. 

Many people in the videotex field 
feel that all this legislation is unneces- 
sary. They argue that there has been 
no evidence of abuse and that system 
operators are hardly likely to offend 
their customers by invading their 
privacy. These companies make a 
strong argument that we should wait 
to set rules until we know more about 



the market and the technology. 

Legislation is beginning to look in- 
evitable, however. And when it does 
pass, the biggest problem for the 
videotex industry will be the motley 
of state and local rules and the often 
ambiguous wording of laws. The dif- 
ferences from law to law would, for 
example, require the operator of a 
system serving several states to main- 
tain separate databases and pro- 
cedures for each state — a costly prop- 
osition. 

Some companies providing interac- 
tive services see self -regulation as the 
best way to allay subscriber concerns 
and avoid a patchwork of conflicting 
rules. Two large cable firms — 
Warner-Amex and Cox — have issued 
codes of behavior regarding privacy. 
The National Cable Television 
Association and the Videotex In- 
dustry Association have formed 
groups to draft industry-wide guide- 
lines. Meanwhile, there is increasing 
support for a uniform standard, set 
by Congress, to preempt state and 
local rules. 



Interception 

In the case of interactive systems, 
several kinds of interception are 
possible. An eavesdropper — or a law- 
enforcement agent — could put a 
physical tap on a telephone line or 
dial into a central computer that 
transmits messages and keeps 
records. A cable subscriber could use 
special equipment to listen on his 
cable and pick up signals addressed to 
or transmitted by other subscribers. 

Federal law provides criminal sanc- 
tions against unauthorized intercep- 
tion of wire communications and 
regulates legal wiretapping by law- 
enforcement authorities. The law 
allows government agencies to 
wiretap, but only with a court 
order — which the courts are to grant 
sparingly — or, if national security is 
at issue, pursuant to an order from 
the Attorney General. 

Unfortunately, the drafters of this 
law — who worked on it almost 15 
years ago— did not anticipate ad- 
vances in technology, and the law 
now has two large loopholes. First, 



O «Sk 



STRATEGIC 

SYSTEMS 

CORPORATION 



CIRCE™ 

MultiUserVOS 

CP/M or CDOS • 16 Users or Tasks 



CP/ M ™*or CDOS ""* upward-compatibility allowing continued use of the largest 
existing micro software bases. 

Each of CIRCE s 16 users or tasks may utilize Virtual R.A.M. Storage beyond the 
R.A.M. accessible through direct addressing, which may be dynamically allocated 
by the system. 

h the extended IEEE 24-Iine addressing and new 16-bit 8086,"* 

tandard 8-bit proces- 
sors suH "'-based systems. 

led R.A.M. bank-selection up to sixteen 8 megabyte banks 

rsion (sixteen 64K R.A.M. banks for Z80 or other 
permits individual programs to be as large as 128 megabytes 
ith extended memory-mapping under the 16-bit version of 
' ithout wait-states on the first 8 megabytes 

n, and the first 64K of R.A.M. in 
r^ H ^ versions of CIRCE 2.0 allows 1 mega- 

uled memory-management with 



CIRC1 

in the ( 

8-bit pi 

on i Z8000 I system < 

CIRCE, Ver- 

of R.A.M. ur: 

CIRCE 1.5 8-bit vers 

bvteof DMA, and \i 



CIRCE's virtual memo ries. 

The forthcoming CIRCENET~*system from STRATEGIC SYSTEMS 
CORPORATION will initially allow 1,024 packets of sub-networks (or groups), 
each sub-network comprised of as many as 16 multi-user systems, each system 
containing up to 16 users or tasks. The entire Network will be able to share 
common Network-Resources, while allowing packets to share packet-common 
resources and users to cross-communicate through system priority-queued "links!' 



I- 



rks!! 



There 

Networl 

SDLC p 

"Mainfr 

CIRCE 

Available on 8" orS" disk. 

•CIRCr jnrli II > uidrm 

RacwrhofCald rna CDOSnttn 
rmdC..rp.;Z80fcZ8000 a, t t,.derr 



Telex Number: 701579 



nd Inter- 
JiSync, and 
h existing 



i phisticated Multi-Level User Password System. 



■radrmark of I 
c trademarks i 



uon, uainornia t; 

Cable Address: Stratsys 



98 July 19*3 © BYTE Publication! Inc 



Circle 386 on inquiry card. 



A BETTER STSTEMCARD 

FOR THE IBM PC. 

FROM THE PEOPLE 

WHO WROTE ITS 

OPERATING SYSTEM. 



When you choose a multi -function card for your IBM PC, 
choose the best. 

No other company understands your IBM PC like Microsoft*. We developed its operating system, 
MStm-DOS. Thaf s why the SystemCard has features no other add - in card can match. 

The SystemCard advantage. 

The Microsoft SystemCard takes up only one slot, but gives you everything you need to complete 

your IBM PC or PC XT system. 

Its features include 64K or 256K of extra RAM memory plus Microsoft's RAMDrive™ disc emulation 

software which allows you to use RAM as you'd use disk. But 50X faster. 

It includes a parallel interface and a print spooler that lets you continue computing even while 
printing your biggest files. 

The SystemCard also includes both an IBM compatible RS232 serial 
interface and a parallel interface. Plus terminal 
emulation software that lets you connect your 
PC to other computers. The SystemCard even 
includes a calendar/clock and time utilities for 
your time- based applications. 
And if s fully compatible with DOS 1.1 or DOS 2.0. 

The right choice. 

One card— the SystemCard— does more than 
a host of slot- munching peripherals. And since 
Microsoft understands your PC so well, we've 
avoided many of the problems you might find 
in other cards. You can run RAMDrive and the 
print spooler at the same time, as a true multi- 
function add-on. Run the clock utilities without 
a resident language interpreter, because our 
drivers are written in the PC's own assembly 
language. This saves memory. 
/\ What's more, you can queue up to ten files 
of any length by name on a command line, 
like a true system spooler— and interrupt them 
any time to make additions, deletions or 
changes, right from the keyboard. 
You'll also run DOS 2.0 with the SystemCard's 
own installable drivers. And run the serial interface 
through IBM PC PORT 1 or PORT 2 with no translation 
codes necessary and with full interrupt support. 

A great value. 

Ask your dealer for a demonstration of the Microsoft 
SystemCard for your IBM PC. Consider all the things one 
card can do for you. Then think who made it. The SystemCard. 
From Microsoft. 



BETTER TOOLS FOR MICROCOMPUTERS 




MICROSOFT 



Microsoft is a registered trademark, MS and RAMDrive are 
trademarks of Microsoft Corporation, 



CAST BETTER, FASTER 

SPELLS WITH OUR 
CI-C86 C COMPILER 




Weave 

a spell with 

the CI-C86 C Compiler, 

especially designed for use with: 

• CPM86 and MPM86 • DEC Rainbow • Zenith ZIOO • Seattle 

• MS-DOS • Victor 9000 • Lomas 8O86 • Eagle 

• IBM Personal • Sirius * Altos 86OO • Columbia 1600 

• IBM Displaywriter • NEC APC • Compupro 86/87 • And Many More 

CI puts all the magic of C at your finger- 
tips with all of K&R, a full support library, 
8087 support and much more. 

Merlin would approve! 

Disk and documentation $395. 
Overseas airmail $20. 

For further information, please contact: 



Computer Innovations, Inc. 

75 Pine Street 

Lincroft, New Jersey 07738 

Telephone: (201) 530-0995 



C86 and CI-C86 are trademarks of Computer innovations. Inc 

CPM and MPM ore trademarks of Digital Research 

MS-DOS is o trodemark of Microsoft 

IBM is a trademark of International Business Machines 

DEC is o trademark of Digital Equipment Corp. 





the law covers only "aural intercep- 
tion," so it does not seem to apply to 
eavesdropping on data and text trans- 
missions, such as electronic mail. Sec- 
ond, the law defines "wire communi- 
cations" as transmission provided by 
common carriers such as the tele- 
phone company — probably omitting 
most cable services. 

Legislation pending in Congress ad- 
dresses both problems. Senate Bill 66 
forbids any private person or govern- 
ment body from intercepting any 
broadband communication unless 
authorized to do so by the system 
operator, program originator, or 
federal law. (The provision does not 
specify whether law-enforcement in- 
vestigators would use a regular search 
warrant or would have to meet the 
wiretapping law's strict standard to 
get court permission for nonaural in- 
terception.) This same proposal 
defines cable transmission as "wire 
communications" so as to include 
them within the law's scope. 

It is too early to tell whether the 
privacy legislation pending in Con- 
gress will become law. If it does, it 
would preempt similar state regula- 
tion and would provide a unified 
substitute for the hodgepodge of dif- 
ferent state and local rules. Although 
the federal proposal is currently part 
of a bill that focuses on cable systems, 
it is drafted broadly enough so that its 
provisions could be interpreted to in- 
clude telephone-based services as 
well. 

In the meantime, industry attempts 
at self -regulation on the privacy issue 
will increase. Most system operators 
are anxious not to scare their sub- 
scribers — it's hard enough to sell a 
new product without introducing fear 
into the equation. As a result, the 
Orwellian scenario may remain more 
fiction than fact.B 






About the Authors 

Richard J. Neustadt is a partner in the law 
firm of Wiley, Johnson and Rein (1776 K St., 
NW, Washington, DC 20006). His recently 
published book, The Birth of Electronic 
Publishing (Knowledge Industry Publications, 
1982), touches upon privacy and interactive 
video services. M. Anne Swanson is an 
associate with Wiley, Johnson and Rein. 



100 July 19S3 © BYTE Publicatiom Inc 



Circle 96 on inquiry card. 



From the inventors of the first personal computer-controlled, 
fully programmable digital oscilloscope, come two more instruments 

destined to make waves. 




allows you to build complex wave- 
forms by defining them mathemat- 



Personal instrumentation. 
It's a whole new wave in test and 
measurement systems. 

First, Northwest Instrument 
Systems introduced the Model 85 
aScope™. Now it's joined by the 
aSource™ Arbitrary Waveform 
Generator and the aGen™ Program- 
mable Function Generator. Result? 
The world's first personal computer- 
based, closed-loop waveform 
stimulus/acquisition system. A sys- 
tem designed for user-interaction. 
With easy-to-learn menu-driven 
set-ups. Single keystroke standard 
commands. And the ability to ad- 
dress customized applications via 
co-resident programs. 

Yet, for all their features, each 
of these instruments sells for un- 
der $1,000; a tremendous price/ 
performance breakthrough achieved 
by making these instruments pe- 
ripherals to a personal computer, not 
stand-alone products linked to an 
instrument controller. 

aSOURCE 
NWIS's aSource converts the 
Apple II or lie into a fully pro- 
grammable arbitrary waveform 
generator. 

Its unique Waveform Editor™ 



ically or constructing them from 
previously stored waveform 
segments. aSource gener- 
ated waveforms have 
12-bit resolution and rec- 
ord lengths up to 4096. 

aGEN 
The aGen transforms 
the Apple II or He into a 
fully programmable 0.5Hz 
to 5MHz function generator 
that can generate all classic wave- 
forms — sine, square, triangle, ramp 
and pulse. 




Continuous, triggered, gated and 
n-burst modes, along with variable 
symmetry, amplitude and frequency 
modulation, combine to make aGen 
a full-featured, flexible signal source. 

aSCOPE 
aScope completes the loop. From 
its residence in the Apple II or He 
aScope provides you with a dual 




waveform disk storage and retrieval, 
hard copy output, waveform digital 
voltmeter, and waveform averaging. 

THE REAL BEAUTY 
OF THE SYSTEM. 

Each of these personal instru- 
ments by itself is a versatile, cost- 
effective programmable instrument. 

But used in combination they 
form an incredibly efficient, high- 
performance stimulus/acquisition 
system. A closed-loop system with 
which you can acquire information 
via the aScope and analyze it with 




your Apple-resident BASIC or as- 
sembly language program. The pro- 
gram can then control the stimulus 
instrument (aSource or aGen) based 
on the analysis. And characterization, 
calibration and test results can be 
displayed according to your needs. 
Total cost of these capabilities 
(including the personal computer, 
monitor and disk drive)? Less than 
$4,000. 

So now you can allocate less time 
to setting up tests and wading 
through data. And more to the most 
important part of your work. 
Developing solutions. 

For more information, including a 
demo disk or live demonstration, 
contact us for the name of the NWIS 
representative in your area. 



PERSONAL INSTRUMENTS. 
BRINGING YOU CLOSER. 



channel programmable 50MHz digi- 
tal memory oscilloscope with stan- 
dard operating software that includes 



oS 



NORTHWEST INSTRUMENT SYSTEMS, INC. 

P. O. Box 1309, Beaverton, Oregon 97075 ■ 
800-547-4445, (503) 297-1434 



Circle 296 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 101 




ing Over 

With Innovation 




Grapple! + 

I Printer Interface 

The Original Apple® graphics printer interface. 
Since its introduction three years ago, the 
Grappler has been imitated by many, but never 
matched. Now with Dual Hi-Res Graphics for side 
by side reproductions and Mixed 
Mode screen dump- 
ing, the Grappler + 
remains the most 
intelligent interface 
available. Over two 
dozen commands 
give Apple users full control over any graphics or 
text on the Apple Screen, including a new 80 
column text dump. Performance, reliability and 
support have made the Grappler + the #1 selling 
intelligent Apple interface. 





For Apples and Printer* 

The economical way to add printer buffering. The 
Bufferboard easily adds memory to your current 
Apple interface system, freeing your computer for 
additional input. Easily upgradable from 16K, the 
Bufferboard can store up to 20 pages of text. It 
fits neatly inside your Apple, "Docking" onto your 
existing printer interface* No clumsy boxes or 
cables, no external power supplies... just conve- 
nience and 
economy. With 
the Bufferboard, 
you might never 
wait for your 
printer again. 

"Versions for standard Grappler + , Epson APL and Apple 
Parallel Interfaces. 




102 BYTE July 1983 



75,000 Apple Owners 

And Excellence. 





The most sophisticated buffered Apple printer 
interface available. The New Buffered Grappler + 
combines the industry leading features of the 
Grappler + with the time saving economies of the 
Bufferboard.** 






With this much interface power, you'll never need 
anything else. And the price will surprise you, too. 

* "Not available for IDS printers. 
Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computers, Inc. 

Circle 306 on inquiry card. 



Over 75,000 Apple computers are using Orange 
Micro products. Innovation and excellence have 
made us the #1 manufacturer of intelligent printer 
interfaces. The top selling Grappler + has 
become an industry standard, recommended by 
more software houses and Apple dealers. To 
meet the users' latest needs, Orange Micro is 
working to develop new products, like the color 
Grappler + for IDS color printers and the new 
Buffered Grappler + . There is an Orange Micro 
product designed for your application. 

For a complete demonstration, see your Apple 
dealer today. 



^ 



Orange Micro 



1400 N. Lakeview Ave., Anaheim, CA 92807 U.S.A. 
(714) 779-2772 TELEX: 183511 CSMA 

©Orange Micro, Inc.. 1983 

BYTE July 1983 103 



Graphics Artistry On Line 

A Telidon videotex workshop 

sponsored in part by the National Endowment for the Arts 

explores a new medium for artistic expression 



The paint is an electron beam, and 
the canvas is a luminescent bubble of 
glass; 10 million people can own an 
original when artists use a new graph- 
ic medium — videotex. 

When the staff of New York Uni- 
versity's Alternate Media Center 



by Martin Nisenholtz 

began to create broadcast teletext 
pages with the Norpak Telidon termi- 
nal (see the text box on page 106), 
very little work had been done with 
alphageometric graphics in areas 
where we felt they could be quite 
effective. We wanted to try using the 




Photo 1: The opening page from "Nancy Reagan Takes the Subway, " an interactive 
comic strip by Maria Manhattan. 



graphics to enhance the legibility of 
text; to create maps, charts, dia- 
grams, and other symbolic represen- 
tations; and to improve the overall 
aesthetic appeal of a teletext or video- 
tex service. We also hoped to define 
the stylistic limitations of the 
medium, both in content and design. 
At that time, mid-1979, few artists 
had worked on Telidon production 
terminals and the field showed little 
creative diversity. Although several 
commercial field trials were in the 
planning stages, we wanted to in- 
volve more creative people in the 
very early stages of the medium. 
Therefore, in addition to our work 
with teletext, we decided to develop a 
noncommercial videotex database to 
explore the more complex database 
architecture of the two-way videotex 
system. 

On April 1, 1981, the National En- 
dowment for the Arts (NEA) began 
funding an artists' videotex work- 
shop. Artists would be invited to 
learn to use the Norpak equipment 
and to create works that would be 
structured into a hierarchical data- 
base for display over videotex sys- 
tems in the United States and Cana- 



104 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



W^B 



k K ~ 





Jhe birds are singing and 
it is a cheery day 




Photo 2: A page from "Snap Shots" by Mary Beams. Note use of textures. 



da. This independent production fa- 
cility began its work with three major 
goals: 

Creative growth: Working under 
the production constraints of a fast 
moving videotex or teletext opera- 
tion, it's difficult to set aside time 
simply to explore the medium. How- 
ever, a certain amount of "waste" is 
built into an exploratory program, 
and in this more relaxed environment 
ideas tend to emerge that can then be 
integrated into an operational setting. 
In many fields commercial applica- 
tions spring from ideas that are 
spawned in laboratories established 
by artists and engineers. The com- 
puter graphics field serves as an ex- 
cellent example, in which conceptual 
thinking and experimentation often 
lead to new commercial applications 



and vice versa. The first goal of our 
videotex workshop was to be the 
basis for such experimentation. 

Content diversity: Creative growth 
and content diversity are related 
goals. A wide assortment of artists 
with different backgrounds and skills 
can best provide the intellectual 
richness and range of opinions 
necessary for growth in a new 
medium. And because new ideas are 
often stumbled upon unexpectedly, 
our second goal was to create an en- 
vironment where people would feel 
free to explore their own insights. 

Independent expression: The extent 
to which the public should be able to 
contribute ideas to a public videotex 
system is only now being addressed. 
While open videotex systems are 
more responsive and more diverse 
than closed systems, the British ex- 



perience suggests that too much 
diversity can result in confusing and 
illegible pages, nonstandard routing 
commands, and content that is redun- 
dant and sometimes crude. Our third 
goal was to establish a framework for 
independent thought and expression 
while maintaining database con- 
sistency and page legibility. 

The Process 

Bringing this rhetoric down to 
earth meant first exploring the visual 
characteristics of the alphageometric 
presentation standard and then struc- 
turing the discrete videotex frames in 
a usable, public videotex database. 
We invited different types of art- 
ists — illustrators, animators, jour- 
nalists, and conceptual artists — to en- 
sure that a diversity of skills and 
points of view would be established. 



July 1963 © BYTE Publications lnc 105 




Photo 3: A page from Wendy Richmond's "Cultural Patterns. " 



Ten artists were selected to learn to 
use the Norpak Telidon terminal. 
Only one of these artists had any 
previous experience with computer 
graphics. 

Learning Curves 

How long does it take an artist to 
achieve proficiency on the production 
terminal? That depends on the de- 
mands of the production operation, 
the need for complex graphics, and 
the personality and skill of the artist. 
Most of our workshop participants 
were creating complex graphics after 
three or four sessions on the terminal. 
However, some of these artists may 
not have been capable of creating 
production-quality pages until their 
third or fourth month, if ever (see 
reference 1). 

Database Structure 

While learning the basic commands 
of the Norpak software and achieving 
skill in using geometric primitives to 
create images (see the text box on 
page 108), the artists also had to learn 
the context in which these discrete 
frames were being placed. That is, 
they had to learn to structure their 
own databases to be incorporated 
into a larger project database and, 



more globally, into the databases of 
several system operators. Some art- 
ists responded by building sequential 
series of pages, such as Maria Man- 
hattan's "Nancy Reagan Takes the 
Subway," a sequential cartoon (see 
photo 1). To display the next page in 
the sequence you simply press the for- 
ward arrow on the keypad. Other 
artists, responding to the numerical 
choices offered by the Norpak key- 
pad, built more complex databases in 
which more than one choice is offered 
throughout. Mary Beams' "Snap 
Shots" (see photo 2) is a series of 
short stories that are selected from a 
subindex. Beams used a house with 
different rooms as a metaphor for the 
database architecture. 

For the overall NEA database, we 
were far more concerned with diversi- 
ty of content and style (see photo 3) 
than with achieving a consistent 
graphics presentation style across art- 
ists' databases. Nonetheless, we need- 
ed standard application-level com- 
mands for each videotex system on 
which the work was shown. This en- 
tailed specifying user commands in 
the bottom right-hand corner of each 
page, constructing an index page for 
the overall database, and making sure 
that each artist's database conformed 



to the tree structure indexing and 
routing schemes for each system. 

Graphics Capabilities 
and Trade-offs 

The Norpak software generates six 
colors and six shades of gray, as well 
as black-and-white images. However, 
laying different fill patterns in dif- 
ferent colors on top of one another 
gives an image a heightened look of 
texture. We found two major trade- 
offs in using such textures. First, a 
textured pattern displays much more 
slowly than a solid or outlined shape 
because a textured fill pattern writes 
in more memory locations than a 
solid or outlined shape. Thus, when 
the textured geometric shape redis- 
plays, it takes longer to recall from 
memory. Second, finding the "right" 
textured pattern may take hours of 
experimentation with different fill 
patterns, pixel densities, and line at- 
tributes. Because of these limitations, 
we feel textured patterns should be 
used selectively and over small areas 
of the screen. 

Animation 

In some instances, animation can 
add visual appeal and excitement to a 
videotex image. In other cases, it can 
be distracting, tiresome, and wasteful 
of memory. Using the Norpak IPS-2E 
software, the artist animates an image 



The First Step: Broadcast Teletext 

In 1979, the Alternate Media Center 
of New York University's Tisch School 
of the Arts conducted a planning study 
of broadcast teletext for the Corpora- 
tion for Public Broadcasting and Na- 
tional Telecommunications and Infor- 
mation Administration (see reference 
3). The following year, the center pro- 
posed a field trial of teletext in associa- 
tion with public station WETA-TV in 
Washington, D C. The field trial was 
jointly funded by the Corporation for 
Public Broadcasting, the National Sci- 
ence Foundation, the National Tele- 
communications and Information Ad- 
ministration, and the Department of 
Education. The Canadian Telidon sys- 
tem was selected for production of tele- 
text pages, which were transmitted over 
the vertical blanking interval (VBI) of 



106 July 19*3 © BYTE Publications he 



by copying it in the background color 
and then again in another screen posi- 
tion in the original or some new 
color. When the page displays, the 
image appears, disappears, and then 
reappears in the new position, con- 
veying the illusion of motion. New 
software developments allow the art- 
ist to manipulate the blink function 
by specifying time intervals between 
blinking images, which may change 
color. Although the expanded blink 
function improves the animation 
capability, artists should be aware 
that its overuse will distract viewers. 
We found that animation succeeded 
most when it added meaning to the 
frame and wasn't purely decorative. 

Legibility 

A delicate relationship exists be- 
tween the amount of text placed on 
the screen and its legibility. Several 
artists worked to arrive at what they 
felt was a balanced format for text 
preparation. They improved clarity 
and legibility by avoiding long 
sentences and by dividing the frame 
into three or four separate para- 
graphs, each with one or two shorter 
sentences. They found that a light 
gray text against a dark gray back- 
ground was a legible combination 
and that, in general, lighter back- 
grounds were too harsh on the eyes 
(reference 2). 



the television station's signal (see 
reference 4). On June 24, 1981, a test 
group involving 40 homes and 10 pub- 
lic locations began receiving teletext 
daily, from 8:00 AM, until 12:00 mid- 
night. The teletext service was designed 
and operated by Alternate Media 
Center staff at WET A in Shirlington, 
Virginia. A research team evaluated 
users' responses to different categories 
of content, editorial styles, page 
designs, indexing schemes, and related 
issues. The field trial was concluded on 
August 30, 1982, and the broadcast 
station has since adopted the service as 
part of its overall broadcast operation. 
Results of the field trial are available to 
the public from the Alternate Media 
Center, 725 Broadway, New York, NY 
10003. 




Photo 4: A pictogram game developed by Martin Nisenholtz, called "Mystery of the 
Drink. " 



Database Attributes 

We discovered serious economic 
trade-offs in balancing database 
sophistication against usage costs. In 
many instances, however, the more 
sophisticated search procedures are 
easier to use and add features to 
videotex that are unavailable on more 
traditional databases. For example, at 
least one major videotex system is ex- 
perimenting with multifield key-word 
search procedures. You needn't 
search through a cumbersome tree 
structure for restaurant information. 
Instead, you enter the desired type of 
restaurant and other dining attributes 
(e.g., price and location), and the 
computer finds the appropriate res- 
taurant. These advanced database 
features were not available to us, but 
they will have an impact on future 
planning. At the outset of the work- 
shop project, our concern was to 
build a small hierarchical database 
(approximately 250 pages), compati- 
ble with early videotex systems. 
Therefore, we didn't encounter the 
complex problems of constructing a 
large hierarchical database. Nonethe- 
less, we experimented with two fea- 
tures to make the database more at- 
tractive and fluid: overlays and in- 
dexing symbols. 



By default, all Telidon pages com- 
ing over the consumer's terminal clear 
the screen to black before delivering 
the next page. One useful characteris- 
tic of the picture editor filing system 
is the ability to overlay new text or 
graphics on a portion of the previous- 
ly drawn page. This improves display 
time and continuity over related 
frames of content. This feature is par- 
ticularly handy when presenting 
changing textual material against 
some fixed graphic display and was 
used widely by our artists in story- 
telling. 

Artists were also encouraged to 
help users negotiate the tree-structure 
indexing scheme with visual cues. For 
example, maps were used to replace 
words in leading users to information 
on different geographical locations. A 
game was developed that used picto- 
grams rather than textual descriptions 
to lead users from one database loca- 
tion to another (see photo 4). 

Results 

The final product of the National 
Endowment for the Arts videotex 
workshop was a roughly structured 
electronic magazine with the works of 
10 artists contained in 425 pages, in- 
cluding index pages (see photo 5), 



luly 19S3 © BYTE Publications Inc 107 



NANCY REAGAN TAKES THE SUBWAY 
By Mar i a Manhattan 

SNAPSHOTS 

By Mary Beams 

STARBOY 

By Lady McCrady 

CULTURAL PATTERNS 

By Nendy R i chroond 

CALENDAR STORY 

By Susan Rub in 

ABDULLAH 

By Mark Ginsburg 

FRAMES 

Selected Artists 

LISTINGS 

L.A. Arts Organizations 



Photo 5: The contents page from NEA videotex magazine. 



mm 

BE 



mm 



works in progress, and a section on 
gallery listings and information for 
the Los Angeles show mentioned 
below. Thus far, the NEA workshop 
material has been shown at the 
American Film Institute's National 
Video Festivals in Los Angeles and 
Washington, DC, and was transmit- 
ted for three weeks over the Times 
Mirror Videotex Service. At this 
writing, it is being loaded on the Sask 
Tel videotex system of Saskatchewan 
Telecommunications . 



New Directions 

In addition to the basic ideas of ar- 
tistic expression, diversity of content, 
and design research, other elements 
could be integrated into a videotex 
workshop: 

Increased communication: By using 
the messaging facilities now available 
on most experimental videotex sys- 
tems, interaction can take place 
among artists with videotex-compat- 
ible microcomputers and between 



The Telidon System 

The videotex production equipment 
used at the Alternate Media Center is 
part of Telidon, a Canadian system 
used for both videotex and teletext. 
Telidon allows the operator to specify 
the screen locations of seven geometric 
primitives by defining the picture de- 
scription instructions (PDIs) for each 
shape. These include the following: 

Dot: Draw a dot in a specific pixel 
location. 

Line: Join any two dots with a 
straight line. 

Rectangle: Draw a rectangle by 
selecting two diagonally opposite cor- 
ners. 



Arc: Join any three dots with a 
curved line. 

Circle: Draw a circle by specifying 
two points defining the diameter. 

Polygon: Join any number of dots 
with lines. 

Text: Select size and height of 
characters. 

The designer selects shape attributes 
such as colors, fill patterns, pixel den- 
sities, and line characteristics (e.g., 
dashed, dotted). By ordering and over- 
lapping these graphics elements, im- 
ages are created. 



these artists and other videotex users. 
Ongoing computer conferences could 
develop where artists might take 
primary responsibility for the overall 
direction of the interaction, but 
where videotex users could also input 
questions and opinions on the sys- 
tem. In turn, this could lead into the 
area of pictorial telecommunications. 
New types of stories may also 
emerge, in which writers develop an 
ongoing plot and selected users play 
roles in its development — a type of 
computer-based soap opera. In- 
creased communication among artists 
means that new visual symbols could 
be exchanged to form the basis of a 
more complete understanding of 
visual literacy. 



New types of stories 

may also emerge, in 

which writers develop 

an ongoing plot and 

selected users play 

roles in its 

development— a type 

of computer-based soap 

opera. 



Information on arts events: Al- 
though the information component of 
the NEA workshop was very limited, 
it generated a great deal of en- 
thusiasm from members of arts 
organizations who wanted to have 
their events, schedules, and general 
information put into the videotex 
system. A more comprehensive data- 
base might include organizations that 
would regularly enter and update 
material into a videotex magazine. 
Over time, organizations with com- 
patible microcomputers could update 
their own material. The end product 
would be a comprehensive arts infor- 
mation service. For example, if you 
were interested in seeing Edward 
Weston photographs in galleries in 
New York, you would enter this in- 
formation, and the videotex system 
would provide an answer in the form 
of a schedule of exhibits. 

Marketing applications: Arts orga- 



108 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 229 on inquiry card. 



KEY TRONIC 

PERFECTS THE 

IBM * PC KEYBOARD 




LEI) Indicators On All 
Lock Keys To Show Status 



SHIFT Key in Familiar 
Typewriter Location 



RETURN Key in Familiar 
Typewriter Location 



Convenient 
ENTER Key 



Enhance your IBM* Personal Computer System with a Key Tronic keyboard peripheral. 

This low-profile keyboard is plug-compatible and has familiar key placement. It also 

features reliable microprocessor electronics, solid-state capacitance switches, 

and positive tactile feedback. 



Price: $269.00 

To Order Model KB-5150 Call Toll Free 

1-800-262-6006 
*r\\ i < f , r > /"\r%is'* * <s atT> ~4 P m Pacific Standard Time). 

kK?y LI V^l llw Warranty information may be obtained, free ol 

charge, by writing to the address below. 

THE RESPONSIVE KEYBOARD COMPANY 



DEPT. E 



P.O. BOX 14687 



SPOKANE, WASHINGTON 99214 USA 



"IBM is a registered trademark of IBM Corporation 

AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTORS: 



BASIC TIME 

Los Angeles, CA (213) 538-971 1 
(800) 323-B437 
C-J SALES. INC 

San Francisco. CA (415) 941-6892 
J C SALES 
Los Angeles, CA (213) 340-6136 



DIGITAL ENTRY SYSTEMS. INC 
Boston, MA (617) 899-61 1 1 
COMPUTER-MATE. INC 
Dallas, TX (800) 442-4006 (Texas) 

(800) 527-3643 (Continent, 
COMPONENTS UNLIMITED, INC 
Lynchburg. VA (804) 384-6000 



PERIPHERAL SUPPORT. INC 
Chicago, IL (312) 593-5900 
SSE PRODUCTS, INC 
Elmont, NY (516) 872-9001 
OED ELECTRONICS, INC 
Philadelphia, PA (215) 657-560( 
RHINO SALES COMPANY 
Brighton. Ml (313) 227-1788 



FUTURE ELECTRONICS, INC 
Montreal, Quebec (514) 694-7710 
Ottawa, Ontario (613)820-8313 
Toronto, Ontario (416) 663-5563 
Calgary, Alberta (403) 259-6408 
Edmonton, Alberta (403) 486-0974 
Vancouver, B C (604) 438-5545 



nizations and individual artists often 
wish to distribute printed brochures, 
catalogs, and events schedules to spe- 
cific groups or individuals. Video art- 
ists may wish to sell their cassettes to 
owners of video-cassette recorders. 
Gallery owners may wish to expand 
their mailing lists to include a broader 
range of collectors. Artists who 
design crafts, clothing, or jewelry 
may wish to reach new customers 
through videotex. Local arts-supply 
stores, photographers, and others 
providing arts services may wish to 
advertise on a videotex directory. 
Future videotex databases might ad- 
dress these needs of the arts com- 
munity. Such services could have 
broad commercial applications. 

Telesoftware: Future videotex 
design workshops may combine the 
skills of computer programmers, art- 
ists, and writers to experiment with 
designing educational software in art 
history and appreciation, language 
training, and new types of computer 
games. The transmission of a com- 
puter program from a host to a re- 



mote terminal demands more mem- 
ory than most existing videotex ter- 
minals have. 

Conclusions 

In the United States, videotex 
systems are developing within com- 
mercial settings that are far more 
discriminating in the videotex 
material and services they accept than 
are common carriers such as the 
Prestel system. Nevertheless, within 
these new systems there is an en- 
thusiasm about learning and an ac- 
ceptance of new ideas that, for the 
most part, seem compatible with the 
goals set out by the NEA workshop 
program. New design workshops 
should continue this experimentation 
and development and, in the process, 
help blaze the trail for videotex in the 
United States. ■ 



References 

1. Elton, Martin and Martin Nisenholtz. 
"Labor Costs of Creating Teletext Pages." 
New York: Alternate Media Center, Feb- 
ruary 1982. 



2. Nisenholtz, Martin. "Early Use of 
Graphics in the Alternate Media Center/ 
WETA Teletext Trial." New York: Alter- 
nate Media Center, September 1981. 

3. Teletext and Public Broadcasting. New 
York: Alternate Media Center, April 1981. 

4. Elton, Martin. "Access Time and Recep- 
tion Quality in the -Field Trial in Washing- 
ton, D.C." New York: Alternate Media 
Center, September 1981. 



About the Author 

Martin Nisenholtz is currently affiliated with 
Olgilvy and Mather Advertising (2 East 48th 
St. , New York, NY 10017). At the time the arti- 
cle was written, he was project director for the 
Alternate Media Center of New York Univer- 
sity's Tisch School of the Arts. 



Author's Note: The views expressed in 
this article are those of the author and do 
not necessarily reflect the views or policies 
of the National Endowment for the Arts 
or New York University. 

The current project director of the NEA 
workshop, Pat Quarles, can be reached at 
the Alternate Media Center, New York 
University School of the Arts, 725 Broad- 
way, New York, NY 10003. 



The Key Key 



It seems that everywhere you look 
these days, somebody has been busy 
punching in lower and lower prices. 
And while this should make you very 
happy, it can actually make you very 
confused. Especially if you're 
concerned about getting the best 
price on computers, software and 
accessories. 

But a good price doesn't mean 
anything if you're not getting a 
quality product, or if you're not 
getting the expert service that you 
deserve when buying by mail. We've 
always been known for competitive 
prices. And our extensive product 
line of over 3000 items includes 
software and accessories for some 
of the most respected names in 
the business, such as: „ 

IBM FRANKLIN CP/M COMPUTERS 




If you're ready to order, call our toll 
free number. Right now. (Chances are 
we'll ship the same day.) Tell us what 



you're thinking about buying, and 
we'll tell you precisely what you 
ought to be spending. 

It won't cost you anything. In fact, 
it might save you plenty. 

Wisconsin residents — add 5% sales tax when 
ordering merchandise. Add S3.50 for shipping per 
software and small items. (Call regarding others . ) 
Prices subject to change without notice. All items 
subject to availability. We welcome VISA and 
Mastercard (Add 4%). checks (allow 1-2 weeks 
for clearing), and COD (Add S2.00 per shipment 
— cashier's check required). For technical information 
and in Wisconsin: (715) 848-2322. Store prices 
differ from mail order 



1 800 826-1589 

ORYX SYSTEMS, INC. 



vY/ 



205 Scott Street 
R0. Box 1961 
Wausau. Wl 54401 



APPLE is a registered trademark of Apple Computer. Inc / IBM PC is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corp 
FRANKLIN is a registered trademark of Franklin Computer Corp. / CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research Inc 

='1983 ORYX SYSTEMS INC 



110 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 307 on Inquiry card. 



»t j it "Hi 




I NEED 
A TITAN 
BOARD! 




HARDWARE FEATURES: 

64K-576K RAM 

Hard disk interface 

Parallel port 

2 serial ports 

Clock/calendar 



SOFTWARE: 

PSEUDO-DISK™ disk emulator 
PSUEDO-PRINT™ print spooler 

WHATIME™ clock support 
HARDISK™ hard disk support 



Titan sjitcR-n sysisms. 



TECHNOLOGIES WC 



Circle 359 on Inquiry card. 



P.O. Box 8050, Ann Arbor, Ml 48107 (313)973-8422 

In Europe, Pete & Pam Computers, New Hall Hey Road, Rossendale, Lancashire, UK BB4 6JG 
Telephone (0706)227011 Telex 635740 PETPAM G 



BYTE July 1983 111 




"Oasis Systems' software - unquestionably the 
best" ... Peter McWilliams, author of 
the #1 best-selling book on word processing. 




• Interactive word look-up finds correct spelling 
for you and corrects at the push of a button. 

• Hyphenates words automatically. 

• Solves crosswords, puzzles, and anagrams. 

• Works with almost any CP/M®, CP/M-86® or 
MS/DOS compatible word processing program 
(WordStar, Magic Wand, Spellbinder, Perfect 
Writer, Select, Final Word . . . and more!). 



'Punctuation" 



Punctuation 

Checking 

and 

Writing 

Improvement 
Software 



PASIS 



Punctuation & Style takes the worry out of writing 
by automatically catching dozens of different 
punctuation errors, both common and obscure. In 
addition, P&S catches unpaired format commands 
(underline, boldface, etc.), doubled words, and 
more. 

P&S gives you a "critique" of your writing, 
suggesting alternatives for commonly misused or 
over-worked phrases. It also shows where active 
voice can replace passive voice to add clarity and 
precision. 

Punctuation & Style is the perfect companion to 
The WORD Plus. It works easily with most CP/M 
word processors. (Available soon for CP/M-86 and 
MS/DOS.) 



Call or write for 
complete information: 



619-291-9489 



OASIS 

SYSTEMS 



2765 Reynard Way 
San Diego, CA 92103 
Circle 299 on inquiry card. 



CP/M and CP/M-86 are registered trademarks of Digital Research, Inc. 



Dealers contact: 

SOFTWARE DISTRIBUTORS 

1-800-252-4024 (in California) 
1-800-421-0814 (outside California) 



Commentary: Personal 
Computers and Videotex 

An examination of how the worlds of personal computers 
and videotex will interact with one another 



The fledgling videotex industry and 
the thriving personal computer in- 
dustry provide different services, but 
they have a number of things in com- 
mon. For instance, they both are 
dependent on computers, they both 
promote their graphics capability, 
and they both are aiming at a huge 
market — average consumers. In fact, 
it's possible that they have a few too 
many things in common. The ques- 
tion is Will they compete with one 
another or complement each other? 

We are already familiar with the 
services that can be provided by a 
personal computer. A videotex ter- 
minal, however, will be able to pro- 



by Rich Malloy 

vide some of those same services (for 
example, simple computations on the 
host computer) along with excellent 
communication facilities. Personal 
computers are now able to com- 
municate with each other and with 
large databases, but videotex termi- 
nals will allow you to communicate 
much more easily, thanks to well-de- 
signed databases. And the graphics 
capabilities of videotex will allow you 
to communicate much more effective- 
ly — not just in words, but in images 
and icons (the effectiveness of which 
has been shown by systems such as 
Apple's Lisa). 

Although the capabilities of these 



two machines, the computer and the 
terminal, are somewhat different, 
they are designed for the same place: 
the top of a desk. And because we all 
have limited desk space and limited 
budgets, we may be faced with a dif- 
ficult choice: to buy a personal com- 
puter or a videotex terminal. Several 
large corporations are spending mil- 
lions of dollars to determine which 
will prevail. 

This either/or view may be too 
simplistic, however. It is quite prob- 
able that, although videotex and per- 
sonal computers may compete with 
one another to some extent, they will 
more likely enhance each other's ca- 



vf ,iU r rriry. 



IH^V^Nf? r ' 



1,000's 


7 7 7 8 8 8 8 I 
16 23 30 06 13 20 27 0: 


* 9 
1 10 


9 9 10 




Photo 1: Two examples of videotex pictures that will be available on CompuServe if you have a NAPLPS decoder. 

114 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 







You come first. 

With NEC's PC-8800 personal computer, you don't have to ask yourself which comes first, the 
hardware or the software. 

It's designed to be uncompromising in both areas. So you come first. In the office or at home 

The hardware gives you your choice of 8-bit or 16-bit processor, 5 V* " or 8" disk drive, 
high-speed dot matrix or letter-quality printer, and standard green or 
high-resolution color monitor. 

The software includes advanced, user-friendly programs for all types of banking, 
accounting, and business management. Plus free * WordStar® 
word processing and MailMerge,® Multiplan™ 
spread sheet, BASIC (two versions), and CPlM." 

You come first again with NEC's high-quality 
graphics and ultra-high reliability. 

The PC-8800 from NEC Home Electronics. 
It puts you first. So you can break out of your 
shell and grow. 



NEC 



NEC Home Electronics (U.S.A.), Inc. 
Personal Computer Division 

1401 Estes Avenue 

Elk Grove Village, IL 60007 

NEC Corporation, Tokyo, Japan 

*\X/ith purchase of complete system. 

Circle 456 on inquiry card. 





THE OVERNIGHT LETTER 

THAT ENDS FEAR OF FLYING 

FOR FLOPPIES. 



The Emery Urgent Letter has been 
designed big and strong enough to keep 
your floppy disk from getting beaten up. 

The envelope is a full 9"xl2'! Big 
enough to ensure your diskette fits 
easily without breaking or tearing. And 
big enough to handle additional papers. 

It s also specially lined to make sure 

SEND ONE,GETONE FREE. 



Get a free Emery Urgent Letter with this coupon. 

Call your local Emery office to make your first Urgent 
Letter shipment. Then send us this coupon along with a 
copy of the airbill from that shipment. We'll send you 
back your free Urgent Letter. 
TO: EMERY, PO. Box 4030, Woburn, MA 01888. 



your floppy disk slides in comfortably. 

For just $11, you can send up to three 
5V floppies (or 4 full ounces) desk-tcdesk 
to most of America. 

Plus, if you send one now, the next ones 
on us. Just fill in the coupon below. And see 
how safely your floppy ^~ 
can fly. For free. m 



Wt 



From: Name_ 

Company 

Address 

City 



_ State. 



Zip_ 



fc» 



I _ _LL B X 6 _ J 



© Emery Worldwide 1983 



pabilities and, in the long run, may 
merge to become different facets of 
the same general product. 

Already we are seeing products 
that allow personal computers to act 
as videotex terminals, and videotex 
terminals are being designed with 
several features taken from personal 
computers. At least one product on 
the market can be equally well 
described as a personal computer or a 
videotex terminal. 

History 

Videotex and personal computers 
both developed as a means to give the 
average person access to the power of 
a computer. When videotex was first 
conceived in Britain during the early 
1970s, personal computers were non- 
existent, a fact that forced designers 
to develop a system of dedicated ter- 
minals connected to a large central 
computer. Because dedicated ter- 
minals would be too expensive, the 
early developers decided to modify 
the consumer's home television into a 
terminal. And to make the service as 
palatable to the masses as possible, 
heavy emphasis would be placed on 
ease of use. This meant that the 
system should have good graphics 
capabilities because a picture is much 
easier to read than a page of text. 

The first Prestel terminals consisted 
of a decoder box placed on top of a 
home television and a small numeric 
keypad and were fairly simple. They 
performed a minimal amount of pro- 
cessing of data before displaying it 
on the screen. 

As videotex technology became 
more advanced, the terminals had to 
become more complex. A terminal 
using the North American Presenta- 
tion Level Protocol Syntax (NAPLPS) 
has to be capable of performing a sig- 
nificant amount of processing. It 
must be able to draw lines, fill in 
polygons, display newly defined 
characters, and even perform simplis- 
tic animation. 

Meanwhile, out in a garage in 
California — and dozens of other 
places — people were trying to bring 
computer power to the masses in 
another way, by simply shrinking the 
computer to a suitable size and 
simplicity. The result, of course, was 

I Circle 158 on inquiry card. 



the personal computer. 

Like videotex systems, personal 
computers have also undergone sev- 
eral changes. The first microcom- 
puters had very crude graphics capa- 
bilities, but as time went on, graphics 
became more and more desirable, and 
thus more prominent as a feature. 
The result is that the graphics capabil- 
ities of some home computers are 
beginning to approach those of video- 
tex systems. 

Applications 

Videotex and personal computers 
have rather different applications. 
Personal computers are most efficient 
for data-processing tasks that require 
a large amount of user interaction 
(for example, a spreadsheet calculator 
or a word processor). Personal com- 
puters can also communicate with 
other computers, but this capability is 
limited by a shortage of easy-to-use 
communications software and the 
lack of a graphics standard for send- 
ing graphics from one computer to 
another. 

Videotex systems, on the other 
hand, are very good at communicat- 
ing. Videotex employs a simple menu 
structure that makes it easy to use, 
and each system has its own standard 
graphics protocol that can be decoded 
on any terminal in the system. The 
general consumer can use videotex to 
retrieve news, shop at home, make 
banking transactions, and send elec- 
tronic greeting cards to other 
videotex users. The graphics cap- 
abilities of videotex will be attractive 
to advertisers, who will help defray 
the cost of the system. 

Business people can use videotex to 
retrieve quickly changing, specialized 
information, such as stock prices or 
the location of ships at sea. It can also 
be used for electronic mail. Sales- 
people can use private videotex sys- 
tems to check inventories or to learn 
about new products. In the United 
Kingdom, Prestel is used by car 
dealers to locate cars that conform ex- 
actly to their customers' preferences. 

Note that many business applica- 
tions of videotex are not heavily 
dependent on graphics and thus 
might be performed by personal com- 
puter networks if an easy-to-use 

Circle 457 on inquiry card. > 



Read the 
fine print. 



Improve the output of your present 
system with a dot-matrix printer 
from NEC. 

For good looking copy in a hurry, it's 
hard to beat NECs hard-working 
PC 8023A. This is a bi-directional 120 
CPS, 80-column printer that can operate 
in a compressed-print mode to yield 132 
columns. Special 2I< buffer holds a page 
of data, so the unit can print while you re 
typing in something else. Compatible 
with a wide range of computers, from 
Apple to Zenith .* 

Compare these features with your 
present printer. 

Tractor and friction feed 

Complete ASCII characters plus 
Greek, math, and graphic 
characters 



Elite, pica, compressed print, 
proportional spacing, subscript 
and superscript 

Standard parallel Centronics 
interface, serial optional 

Prints clear original and up to three 
copies simultaneously 



"Special cables may be necessary. 
Contact your local NEC Home 
Electronics dealer 



Productivity at your fingertips 



hfFC 



NEC Home Electronics (U.S.A. ), Inc. 
Personal Computer Division 

1401 Estes Avenue 

Elk Grove Village, IL 60007 

1312)228-5900 

NEC Corporation, Tokyo, Japan 



database management program were 
available. Also, videotex is somewhat 
inefficient for data-processing tasks, 
such as word processing, which re- 
quire a large amount of user interac- 
tion. 

Marketplace 

People in the personal computer 
business tend to envision a huge 
potential market. We frequently hear 
about a computer on every desk or 
even in every home. 

Videotex industry people envision 



a market of similar proportions. 
After all, almost every house in the 
U.S. has a television set, and the great 
majority have phones. Thus, a tre- 
mendous number of people already 
have, as it were, two-thirds of a 
videotex terminal. And, in terms of 
applications, a large number of peo- 
ple read newspapers, shop by mail, 
use electronic banking machines, and 
send express mail, all of which can be 
done by a videotex system. Par- 
ticularly appealing to videotex sup- 
porters is the fact that television, dur- 




leading Edge Z-80, S100 Distributed Processing. 

$475.00 



Memory transfer rates of 517Kbyt.es/second, 
direct memory access, memory mapping and 
host to slave requests via interrupt control make 
the CPS-MX fast. And easy to integrate. Fully 
compatible with TURBOdos™, Intercontinental 
Micro System's slaves are available in four 
versions: synchronous or asynchronous serial 
port, 4Mhz or 6Mhz. The choice is yours. The 
CPS-MX also allows the bus master to utilize 
slave memory at the user's discretion. The slave 
then acts as a 64K RAM card. 

The CPS-MX is also easy to integrate with 
Intercontinental's full line of S100 products: 
CPZ-48000SBC 
single board 
computer with 
64K on board 
RAM, 4 I/O 



1733 South Douglass Road, Suite E, Anaheim, California 92806 (714) 978-9758 Telex: 678401-TAB-IRIN 

TURBOdos is atfademark of Software 2000, Inc. 



channels, memory management, on board 
floppy controller, DMA and vectored priority 
interrupts; and 256K bank selectable or 
contiguous memory. 

A complete line of personality boards allow 
easy interface to anything from a floppy to a 
Winchester, including modems and printers, and 
don't take up any S-100 bus space. 

Best of all is the price. The CPS-MX starts at 
$475.00. That's right, up to 65% less than what 
you have been paying for products that may not 
measure up. 

Call Intercontinental Micro Systems today. 

We'd like to send you information 
' on the S-100 slave alternative. 




ing its formative period, took only six 
years to saturate 75 percent of the 
American market. 

The current situation, however, is 
that both personal computers and 
videotex are rather expensive. For the 
near future, their markets consist of 
business people and affluent con- 
sumers, and their applications are 
somewhat business-oriented. Today, 
two of the most prominent applica- 
tions of videotex are the fast retrieval 
of quickly changing, specialized in- 
formation (such as gold prices) and 
electronic mail. And videotex may 
take a long time to become estab- 
lished. While television was very 
quickly adopted, another important 
product — the telephone — required 
more than 70 years to reach even half 
the homes in the country. 

Today many companies, including 
IBM and Honeywell, are aiming their 
videotex efforts only at business 
customers. These companies are pro- 
moting small private systems that will 
allow, for example, salespeople to 
quickly check inventory and new 
product information. Prestel, the 
largest true videotex system, has 
found that over 80 percent of its 
decoders reside in places of business. 

This concentration on the business 
market is typical also of many per- 
sonal computer manufacturers. But 
while this market is large and capable 
of absorbing high-priced machinery, 
the huge consumer market lies ever in 
the distance, and even a business- 
oriented company such as IBM is 
rumored to be preparing a consumer- 
oriented home computer. 

Because there is a finite amount of 
desk space in the average office, 
videotex and personal computers 
may soon be going neck and neck for 
the business market and may later 
battle again for the home market. 

A Merging 

Instead of fighting for the same 
markets with pretty much the same 
technology, videotex and personal 
computers will probably share 
features and merge into one powerful 
product. Personal computers are 
beginning to adopt the graphics 
features of videotex. Meanwhile, 
videotex terminals are starting to 



118 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 210 on inquiry card. 




The inventor of VisiCalc, the world's leading software product, introduces 
TKISolver "— the revolutionary way to crunch problems on a personal computer. 



With VisiCalc, Software Arts'" created an 
entirely new application for personal 
computers — the electronic spreadsheet. 

Now Software Arts has developed 
TKISolver, another entirely new and 
different application for personal com- 
puters—the problem solver. Business and 
financial problems. Scientific and engi- 
neering problems. Architectural and build- 
ing design problems. Any kind of problem 
you can dream up, in any area. 

What's so revolutionary about that? 
Simply this: the power of the TKISolver 
program comes from the ease with which 
you can set up problems, vary assumptions, 
find solutions, and display results. All the facilities 
needed to solve the problems — simple or complex- 
are built-in, and need not be developed. Once you 




have stated your problem, simply enter 
the known values, then solve the problem 
with a single keystroke. 
^fU For even easier problem solving use 

jjftjj a TKISolverPack™ in which models for 

solving common problems in such areas 
as finance, engineering and education 
have already been formulated by 
professionals in these fields. 

There is no software product in exis- 
tence that solves problems as quickly, flex- 
ibly, and easily asTK!Solver-The Problem 
Cruncher'". In fact, no other software prod- 
uct even works the way TKISolver does. It 
is a necessity for personal computer owners. See 
for yourself. Visit your nearest computer store for a 
demonstration and find out how much you can do with 
a personal computer when it thinks as flexibly as you do. 



Software Arts" 

27 Mica Lane, Wellesley, MA 02181 

TKISolver, TKISolverPack and TKISolver-The Problem Cruncher are trademarks of Software Arts, Inc. Software Arts is a trademark of 

Software Arts, Inc. and Software Arts Products Corp. VisiCalc is a trademark of VisiCorp. Copyright © 1983. Software Arts, Inc. All rights reserved. 



Circle 377 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 119 



feature capabilities such as informa- 
tion storage and printout that have 
been borrowed from the computer 
market. 

Personal Computers 
as Videotex Terminals 

True videotex systems differ from 
conventional timesharing systems 
primarily because of their extensive 
graphics capabilities. For years 
nongraphics timesharing systems 
have been available for personal com- 
puters. These systems, which here we 
shall call videotex-like systems, in- 
clude services such as The Source, 
CompuServe, and Dow Jones News/ 
Retrieval. 

CompuServe features a number of 
large databases and some communi- 
cations features, such as electronic 
mail and even a CB-radio emulator. 
The Source has similar capabilities 
and features a sophisticated com- 
puter-moderated conferencing 
system. Dow Jones News/Retrieval 
features stories from The Wall Street 
Journal, stock prices, and an en- 



cyclopedia but offers no electronic 
mail capabilities. 

Besides their lack of graphics, these 
services fall somewhat short on 
another vital videotex element: ease 
of use. Over time these services will 
probably develop easier protocols. In 
the meantime, new services such as 
Delphi from General Videotex Cor- 
poration (377 Putnam Ave., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02139) hope to provide a 
similar service in a more friendly 
way. 

The other lacking element, graph- 
ics, should be available very soon. 
CompuServe, according to Richard 
A. Baker, editorial director, already 
has some stock-price information en- 
coded in NAPLPS on its system. Ap- 
parently, if you have a NAPLPS 
decoder you can retrieve a graph of 
the price of your favorite stock (see 
photo 1). The problem is that very 
few people have decoders to display 
these pages. And here we enter the 
familiar chicken/egg question: Which 
has to come first, a lot of decoders or 
a lot of databases? When videotex 



decoders become more prevalent, all 
of these services will probably add 
videotex pages. 

Prestel and Personal Computers 

The British videotex service called 
Prestel was the first and so far most 
successful videotex system in the 
world. It currently has about 20,000 
subscribers. Prestel World Service 
has been available for microcomputer 
users in the U.S. for about two years 
now. Until recently a company called 
Logica in New York City sold pro- 
grams that would allow some micro- 
computers to decode Prestel pages. 
For example, Appletel was available 
for the Apple II ($85), and a similar 
program was offered for the TRS-80 
Model III ($50). Unfortunately the 
graphics could be displayed only in 
black and white. Logica also sold 
time on the Prestel system itself, but 
this service was rather expensive (a 
minimum of $50 per month) and was 
of somewhat limited interest to most 
American business people because 
nearly all of Prestel's information is 



Microrubble 



How long could your business survive if your computer were 
suddenly reduced to a smoldering pile of microrubble? If it were 
stolen? Or tampered with? 

For as little as $35/yr SAFEWARE provides for full 
replacement of all hardware, media and purchased software after 
a low $50 deductible. 

You're covered against fire, theft, accidental damage, 
earthquakes, and damage in transit. SAFEWARE even covers 
power surges, the second leading destroyer of microsystems. And, 
in the event of a claim, you'll get fast replacement. So you can 
be back in business almost before the smoke clears. 

To find out more, or to obtain immediate coverage, call 
the toll free number. Or write: Columbia National General 
Agency, 88 E. Broad Street, Columbus, OH 43215. 



1-800-848-3469 

(In Ohio call toll free 1-800-848-2112) 





120 July 1 983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 80 on Inquiry card. 




Some people drive 

fine German machines to work. 

Some people drive them once they arrive. 



The tradition of high quality, high performance German 
craftsmanship and engineering is legend. And while we most 
often see that tradition in action on America's streets and 
highways, it is in America's business offices that its future 
holds the most promise. 

The BASIS 108 is the proof. 

This powerful small business computer passes higher- 
priced competitors with ease. Its dual 
processors — for CP/M® and Apple II® 
compatibility — open up the largest 
library of microcomputer software 
and plug-in peripherals available today. 
This unique combination also provides 
compatibility with other popular languages, including 
Pascal™ and LOGO.™ 

The detached keyboard is a work of art and practicality. 
Lightweight and low profile, it features a full one-meter cord 
for comfortable operation on your desk — or your lap. There's 
a full 128-key ASCII character set. Fifteen user-definable 
function keys that can provide access to 60 distinct functions. 
A nine-key cursor control block. And a convenient eighteen- 
key numeric pad. For special applications, you can also 
custom map the keyboard with a simple exchange of ROMs. 

And there's more. RGB and composite NTSC or PAL 
video. Keyboard-selectable 80-or 40 -column display. 




High resolution color graphics. Parallel and serial printer 
interfaces. Easily accessible outboard I/O connectors. Six 
Apple Il-compatible card slots for peripherals expansion. 
Even a two-inch alarm or music speaker. 

The BASIS chassis is cast aluminum, eliminating heat 
and RFI interference problems. And there's plenty of room 
for internal expansion to include hard disk drives and 
other peripherals. 

The BASIS 108. Microcomputing's "Best Of Both Worlds." 
German craftsmanship and American business savvy. 
CP/M-based business computing and Apple Il-based personal 
computing. High performance and surprisingly low cost. 
The BASIS 108. A computing machine finely tuned to handle 
the fast tracks of business today. Call your BASIS dealer for 
a test drive. Or call toll free in the U.S. (800) 222-0626. 




5435 Scotts Valley Drive 

Scotts Valley, CA 95066 

(408) 438-5804 TWX: 910-598-4512 



CP/M® is a registcrc d trademark of Digital Research, Inc. Apple II® is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. Pascal™ is a trademark of the Regents of 
the University of California at San Diego. LOGO™ is a trademark of Logo Computer Systems, Inc. 

Circle 45 on inquiry card. 




it really pays to rent terminals and 
desktop computers from Genstar REI! 

You can rent — right now, off-the-shelf, for as short as 30 days — 
Hewlett-Packard desktop computers, intelligent graphics terminals, 
graphics terminals, digitizers and thermal graphics printers. Plus, 
you can rent dot matrix printers, graphic printers, impact printers 
and teleprinters from Centronics, HP, Tally, Texas Instruments, 
Qume, and more. Also, data terminals from ADDS, Beehive, 
Computer Devices, HP, Lear Siegler, Tektronix, Televideo Systems, 
Tl, and others. We've also got modems and acoustic couplers 
immediately available for rent throughout North America. Think of 
your bottom line in graphic terms. Rent from Genstar REI. Today! 

GENSTAR 

Rental Electronics, Inc. 
(800)227-8409 

In California (213) 887-4000, (415) 968-8845 or (714) 879-0561 

I Show me the savings picture, REI. Send me a Free Catalog now! ij 

□ It sounds great. Tell me more! Call □ I'm particulary interested in the 
me at following equipment: 

□ Send me your new Rental Catalog. 

□ I'd like a copy of your "like new" 

equipment for sale catalog, too. 



NAME 

ORGANIZATION 
ADDRESS 



TITLE_ 



MAIL STOP- 



CITY/STATE/ZIP 



TELEPHONE 



Please complete coupon and mail to: Genstar Rental Electronics, Inc. 6307 B783 

, DeSotO Avenue, Suite J, Woodland Hills, CA 91367 e Genstar Rental Electronics, Inc. 1982j 



related to the United Kingdom. 

Two months ago, the U.S. branch 
of Torch Computers (61 Commerce 
Way, Woburn, MA 01801) became 
the exclusive distributor of Prestel 
World Service in this country and 
began selling the Prestel service and 
the Prestel-decoding software at a 
lower price. Torch also has tentative 
plans to establish a Prestel database 
on this side of the Atlantic, which 
would be oriented toward American 
information. 

Prestel is actually a sideline for 
Torch. The company's main purpose 
is to sell the Torch Computer. This 
rather hefty Z80-based machine in- 
cludes a 6502 coprocessor and comes 
complete with two floppy -disk drives, 
96K bytes of memory, an RGB (red, 
green, blue) monitor, and a bundle of 
software. The price for all of this is 
about $4995. Included in the bundle 
of software, by the way, is a Prestel 
decoder that can display all eight of 
Prestel 's vivid colors. 

For those people who would like to 
display Prestel pages on an IBM Per- 
sonal Computer, a company named 
Wolf data (187 Billerica Rd., Chelms- 
ford, MA 01854) will provide several 
products of interest. One of these is a 
color interface card that plugs into 
the PC's expansion bus ($600). Dif- 
ferent software products can then 
turn the PC into a Prestel terminal 
($250), a frame-creation terminal 
($450), or even a small host system 
($500). Thus a complete, though 
small, Prestel system could be set up 
using only IBM PCs. 

A year ago, IBM announced that it 
would support the Prestel coding for- 
mat for its videotex products. Al- 
though IBM's main product in this 
area is a database program for its 
Series/1 minicomputer, the company 
relies heavily on Wolfdata's products 
for its demonstrations of videotex. 

While I'm on the subject of Prestel, 
I must make mention of the BBC 
computer from Acorn Computers in 
the U.K. (see Gregg Williams' 
"Microcomputing, British Style," 
January, page 40). This computer 
may not be marketed too heavily in 
the U.S., but one of its features is the 
ability to decode Prestel. If the BBC 
computer becomes very popular in 



122 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 175 on inquiry card. 



LET THE "ANGEL" DO THE 
WAITING 



Two RS-232C Connectors for serial in 
put and output 



6 Leds to indicate power, transmission 
and reception status, buffer activities, 
page number, etc. 

SKIP and REPRINT provide independant 
page controls to reprint portions of 
documentation. 

40 Pin Expansion Bus available for 
future expansion 



COPY provides convenient one key opera- 
tion for single copy or multi-copy of text 



3 externally accessible Dip Switches for 
baudrate, device type, and parallel and 
serial selections. Selections can be made 
without losing buffer 



Connect an "ANGEL" between your com- 
puter and your printer, and let the "ANGEL" 
do the waiting .... 

Your valuable computer spends 95% of its 
time waiting for the printer to catch up. ..and 
while the computer waits, the payroll con- 
tinues. 

The computer sends data to the "ANGEL" 
at speeds up to 19.2K baud. The "ANGEL" 
stores data and sends it to the printer at a 
speed the printer can handle, and your com- 
puter is free to continue working without in- 
terruption. 
A USER WRITES: 
"I tried the "ANGEL" with my Altos 
system connected to an Epson MX-100, 
both set at 9600 baud. Without the 
"ANGEL" it takes 30 minutes to print 210 
doctors' requisition forms. With the 
"ANGEL" installed, my computer is free 
after 90 seconds." 
With "ANGEL'S" self diagnostics and 
memory test, the entire system thoroughly 
checks itself every time you power up. 
PAGE REPRINT is another unique feature. 
EXAMPLE: You are printing a 32 page 
report, and the paper jams at page 1 1 . 
Reset the printer to the top of the form, 
press PAGE REPRINT, and resume printing 
at the top of page 1 1 . Want to restart two 
pages back? Press PAGE REPRINT twice, 
and you resume at page 10. 









PAGE REPRINT 

Ligo Research, Inc. • 396 E. 159th St. • Harvey. 
Circle 236 on inquiry card. 



Function keys extend the useful com- 
mands to more than 10, including: hex- 
dump, memory test, remote loading, etc. 

Independant PAUSE and HOLD con 
trots to suspend transmission and recep 
tion. 



8 easy-to-operate membrane key switches. 



Two 20 Pin Edge Connectors for parallel 
input and output 



"ANGEL" is compatible with almost all Micro-Computers, including IBM. Apple, TRS-80, Vector Graphic, NorthStar, Altos, 
Xerox, Heath, Zenith, NEC, DEC, etc., with RS-232 serial, Hardware Handshaking, or Centronics compatible parallel interface. 
The manufacturer reserves the right to change the product specification. 



...And think of these other possibilities: 
HEX DUMP. Display or printout every bit 
of data your computer sends out to the 
printer in an easy-to-read Hexidecimal and 
ASCII format. A must for your programmer. 
Pause and Hold for real time programs. 
Page skip for selective printing. What a 
waste to print the entire documentation if 
you only need part of it. 
Simple external switch settings, let the 
"ANGEL" accept either RS-232 serial or 
Centronics parallel data and can output 
either/or in any combination, 
(S-S,S-P,P-S,P-P). The "ANGEL" is com- 
patible with almost all Micro-Computers, 
and can be installed by anyone in minutes. 
Switches are clearly marked for ease of 
operation, and a concise, USER FRIENDLY 
operator reference card is included with 
each unit. 
The "ANGEL" has a full one year limited warranty. 



ANGEL, The Intelligent Buffer, features: 

- 64K Byte Memory Size 

- Four Interface Modes in one unit: 

- Serial to Serial 

- Parallel to Parallel 

- Serial to Parallel 

- Parallel to Serial 

Serial Baudrate from 1 10 to 19.2K Baud 
Single, Multiple and Continuous Copy 
Clear/Reset 
Pause/Hold 
Page Skip 
Page Re-print 
Page-Pause 
Hex-Dump 
Self-Diagnostics 

Space Compression to extend the effec- 
tive buffer size to more than 1 28K 
Price • $295.00 



THE "ANGEL' 

WAITING! 



WILL NEVER KEEP YOU 




r 



HEX DUMP 



1L 60426 • 1-312-331-8797 • In Canada 1-416-859-0370 



TO ORDER: 

CALL TOLL FREE 1 -800-323-3304 
OR SEND CHECK OR MONEY 
ORDER TO LIGO RESEARCH 

Please rush me ( ) "ANGELAS)" @ 

$295.00 each 

Sub total 

' l onl°y is Add 6% (IS. sales tax 



$4.00 



Delivery charge 
TOTAL 

Charge my ( ) VISA ( ) MASTERCARD 

MY ACCT. # IS 

EXPIRATION DATE 



BYTE July 1983 123 



the U.K., Prestel may gain a signifi- 
cantly larger subscriber base. 

NAPLPs and Personal Computers 

The NAPLPS protocol, which is a 
standardized version of AT&T's PLP 
(Presentation Level Protocol) system, 
has such powerful graphics capabili- 
ties that many personal computers 
are severely limited in their ability to 
exploit them (see "NAPLPS Standard 
Graphics and the Microcomputer" by 
Leo Lax and Mark Olson on page 
82). The decoding program takes up 
about 30K bytes of memory, and the 
minimum terminal configuration (256 
by 190 pixels in 16 colors) requires 
about 24K bytes of bit-mapped mem- 
ory for the display. Because NAPLPS 
is designed to be resolution-indepen- 
dent, however, personal computers 
can be used to display an approxima- 
tion of the minimal display picture. 

Like NAPLPS itself, most of the 
NAPLPS products for personal com- 
puters started in Canada. These prod- 
ucts were originally designed for Teli- 
don, the predecessor of NAPLPS. In 



Canada, NAPLPS is sometimes called 
'Telidon version 709" after Technical 
Note 709 of the Canadian Depart- 
ment of Communication. Many of 
these original Telidon products are in 
the process of being expanded to full 
NAPLPS capability. 

One of the more interesting of the 
NAPLPS products for microcom- 
puters is the Telidon Graphics System 
(TGS) board for the Apple II made by 
Norpak of Canada and sold by Apple 
($595). This system consists of a cir- 
cuit board for the Apple's expansion 
bus and a floppy disk of software 
programs that allow the Apple to act 
as a simple Telidon terminal and as a 
frame-creation terminal so that you 
can produce and send pictures to 
other Apples equipped with this 
board — and presumably to other 
Telidon boards. 

Norpak is one of the leading 
manufacturers of Telidon terminals 
and in this product the firm seems to 
have taken a 6809 processor and its 
software out of a Norpak terminal 
and placed it on an Apple expansion 



board with the appropriate memory. 

For the sake of a larger number of 
possible colors, the designers of this 
board had to sacrifice some of the 
Apple's resolution. The result is 
medium resolution (128 by 98 pixels 
in 16 colors). The pictures from this 
system are somewhat coarse, but in- 
teresting nonetheless (see photo 2). 

Unfortunately, this system uses the 
pre-NAPLPS form of Telidon. The 
manufacturer says that the system 
will decode files written using the full 
version of NAPLPS but will display 
only those features that it supports. 
This capability is hard to test, how- 
ever, because there are very few 
NAPLPS databases available at this 
time. 

Another NAPLPS-based product 
for the Apple II is Picture Creation 
System— Telidon/Apple (PCS-T/A) 
sold by Softwords (235-560 Johnson 
St., Victoria. B.C., Canada V8W 
3C6). This software package, which 
uses the Apple UCSD system and a 
graphics tablet, turns the Apple into a 
small Telidon frame-creation ter- 



» 

r 

3" 



THE COMPLETE GRAPHICS SYSTEM 

Don' t let a limited, graphics package corner yoxii ) 

PLOTWARE— z Offers: 

1. EXTENSIVE O. S. SUPPORT: 
CP/M{30. 8t). US DOS, MPM. a to. 

2. DEVICE INDEPENDENT GRAPHICS 
a. CRT: TeleVideo. IBM. XXC. 

TSZ4 01 0. SCI OH. APPhS, eto. 
6. PLOTTERS: All Jpopular omi 
c. Dot— Matrix dt w. P. printers 
Ail popular ones (To St. S 
billion pixel rmsolution — 
HOT just a sormmn dumpj 
ITss only onm—or many at onoe. 

3. Complete Implement at Ion— try: 

a. Menu driven: Chaos* 1 OOC >' m 
from a va.ri.sty of standard 
menus. MAIS YOUR OWH MM MUX * 

b. Command Pile: Auic, etc... 
e. Compiler library tool 
A. Us* CORE CRAPS IC » iandar eti 
DATA DIRECT from mprsad sheet 
and data bass filssl * 
VARIOUS FONTS! (opt loaal item) 
MOUSE SUPPORT! (Tele Video) * 
XTSER MODIFIABLE + extension*. 
COMPLETE TECH MANUAL inoluded 
plus m tep—hy—s ts p directions, 
with 1 00 s of examples. * 

|399 complete 
Optional Fonts. addUBO 
Engineering. Stat. pkg. : WOO 

DEALERS: d«ao available, call. 





SALES - REGION 3 



MAM CMAKT ma* *m wrl{»l. het-tmmmiel. 
ateeaed, aetarsd. ilHltni » XT srmmm 




«. Belt*»a3- UC 
B. i*e»t en a. OK 
a taitkao. uc 
d. ;>iw mm. as 
erael Me*. **. 
Iluk MM. ax 
oaueiM net. uc 



SL I DES 



OVERHEADS. 



f^Don' t j-umt 
\C \ DISPLAY it 
L^P^V PJCTU*M-0>9? 



SAT it. 



WORDS 



Uti/MMi It fMMCMMT Total 0t. 7 Mi 11 tea 




SAMPLES of some of tne optional FONTS Typesetting 
M**d*.f BHAeo, ,UB3r$ VE—e- *%&P £r 
script GREEK RUSSIAN othar Wordstar fit mm 

Tbsutudi pleoed nrldvlK la industry and merarameat alas* 1880. 
•veratoa 1.4 (corrtot lateral write for datella on jour free update) 

PLOTWARE— z drew this entire ad. 

..cr.-M, mtm te. puit.i amaarafc mpoa u gggeawa, icantm. SSSSSJ 



VVESTICO 

The Software Expreem Service 

2$ V"an Zem !&r«*r • Son*,** Coroexxui MS5 

(203)853-6880 • Telex 643788 
Circle 159 on inquiry card. 

THE ENERCOMP COMPANY 

P.O. BOX 28014 

LAKEW000. COLORADO 80228 

(303) 988-1648 



/IST& 



i-5i 



4 «4m> 






& 



'HFor 




t: 



« 



.* 



HARD W8K SWTSM 


■i 



PCnet is the first local area network designed specifically for 
the IBM Personal Computer. It consists of the necessary hardware 
and software to set up a powerful, yet cost effective local area 
network for the IBM PC. While others make claims, PCnet is a 
local area network proven to be successful by hundreds of 
installations in IBM Personal Computers. 

Circle 3 on inquiry card. 

^MTR€S€nflCH INC 




2372 Morse Avenue, Irvine, CA 92714 

Telephone (714) 540-1333 

Call or write for immediate response. 




AST& PCnet Hardware: 

• CSMA/CD LAN 
technique 

• 7000 feet max. 
distance 

• Low cost CATV 
Coaxial cable as 
medium fortran- 
mission 

• 1 Megabit per second 
transmission 

• Optional Mainframe 
connection (eg., 
AST-SNA; AST-5251; 
AST-3780 etc.) 



AST& PCnet Software: 

• Disk Sharing 

Unlike other networks, 



PCnet does not 
demand expansive file 
server or proprietary 
hard disk systems for 
disk sharing. Almost 
any PC- DOS compa- 
tible hard disk includ- 
ing IBM's can be used 
for disk sharing 

• File locking 
Provides locking to 
common data files so 
that common files are 
only accessed by one 
user at a time 

• PC Sharing (Multi- 
tasking) Allows user 
on 1 PC to run com- 
mand on another PC 
in the same network 



Other AST Products 

• I/O Plus II 

• MegaPlus 

• ComboPlus 

• PlusModem 

• Etc.... 



achnoloc 



"'•'ifalilf?' 1 ' 



Machines Corporation. 




Photo 2: The Telidon Graphics System for the Apple 11 and a sample display picture. 



minal. The package was originally 
written for the pre-NAPLPS version 
of Telidon, but the current version 
should now support full NAPLPS. 
The main use for this system is said to 
be picture creation for cable televi- 
sion system operators. The cost of the 
software is $1000. 

For the IBM PC, a company called 
Tayson Information Technology 
(POB 30104, Station B, Calgary, 
Alberta, Canada T2M 4N7) has pro- 
duced a software package (the 
Tayson Personal Videotex System) 
that will turn the PC into a complete 
NAPLPS-based videotex system. This 
package, though expensive ($2500), 
allows you to create pictures on the 
IBM, display them, and store them so 
that they can be accessed by another 
videotex terminal. This system was 
used fairly successfully by IBM itself 
at its exhibit in the Videotex '82 con- 
vention last year. 

A new product called Teligraph by 
Microtaure (POB 6039, Station J, Ot- 
tawa, Ontario, Canada K2A 1T1) 
should offer similar capabilities for 
the IBM PC at a much reduced price 
($399). Teligraph should allow you to 
create and store NAPLPS pictures. 
According to Microtaure, it will also 
allow you to print out a picture on 
the Epson printer (equipped with 
Graftrax) at a very high resolution. 



This capability will allow the IBM PC 
to function as a very powerful graph- 
ics system. 

For the Commodore CBM 8032 and 
4032, there is a package called Graph 
Ease by a small computer named 
Limicon (144 Hampton Ave., Toron- 
to, Ontario, Canada M4K 2Z1). This 
package should turn the Commodore 
8032 into a videotex system with 
capabilities similar to those of the 
Tayson package for the IBM PC. For 
$2500, Limicon says it will supply 
you with all you need, including a 
Norpak NAPLPS decoder and an 
RGB (red-green-blue) monitor, to 
turn the Commodore into a low-end 
computer-aided design (CAD) 
machine. 

Several computer manufacturers 
should have NAPLPS-decoding soft- 
ware available soon. Digital Equip- 
ment Corporation (DEC) was one of 
the first large companies to back 
NAPLPS. In fact, over 70 percent of 
the public videotex systems in the 
U.S. use DEC computers (either 
VAX, DEC 10, or DEC 20 systems) 
for database management. According 
to Michael Mensh of DEC's Enhanced 
Communication department, DEC 
may at some point offer NAPLPS- 
decoding software for its new line of 
microcomputers, the Professional 
series. These computers have power- 



ful graphics capabilities. In fact, at a 
videotex convention in London last 
October, DEC showed off a Profes- 
sional 350 that was displaying 
NAPLPS pictures. 

Torch, the previously mentioned 
British computer that comes complete 
with a Prestel-decoding software 
package, will soon offer NAPLPS 
software as well through its Canadian 
division. 

In a significant move, Microsoft of 
Bellevue, Washington, has designed 
the new version, 2.0, of its very suc- 
cessful MS-DOS operating system 
with the capability to interface easily 
with several different types of pro- 
grams to drive peripheral equipment. 
Because of this capability, it should 
be easy to add a NAPLPS-based in- 
terface to any MS-DOS machine. Bill 
Gates, the president of the company, 
has listed this capability among the 
most important features of the new 
version of MS-DOS. Microsoft has 
even hinted that it might offer a 
NAPLPS decoding program of its 
own. 

Videotex Terminals 
as Personal Computers 

Videotex terminals started out as 
simple devices that would display in- 
formation on a home television 
screen and relay a user's requests 



126 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



t&EMgHI 




The Universal Operating System*. 
Finally, you don't have to repeat yourself. 



There was a time when, if you wanted to develop 
applications for more than one micro, you had to sink 
significant time and money into reprogramming. Time 

With the UCSD p-System* from SofTech Micro- 
systems, the industry's only Universal Operating 
System, those days are over. Whether it's an IBM PC 
or Displaywriter, an Apple, a DEC, an HP, an Osborne, 
a Philips, a Sage, a Tandy, or a TI, the p-System is 
portable across virtually any micro made anywhere 
today. 

At last, increase your productivity. 

Because the programming you do is portable 
and reusable. Every time. For every micro. So you can 
broaden your customer base quickly. Because the 
p-System runs the same object code programs on vir- 
tually all 8 and 16-bit micros, 



We know how much work you put into 
programming, so the p-System 
allows you to reuse program com 



Finally, 



ponents. At last, you can use programs and utilities 
over and over again— instead of writing them over 
and over again. In fact, as much as 50% of the code 
used in one application can be reused on others. 

Designed to be timeless. 

With the p-System, you'll never have to worry 
about locking yourself into an OS that will some day lock 
you out of the market. Because the p-System's effi- 
cient, advanced design will let you grow with tomorrow's 
hardware, and let you continue to expand your 
product line. 

You can develop higher quality applications faster, 
less expensively, more dependably and more efficiently. 
For the entire market. 

All at the same time. All on one micro. 

Finally, once really is enough. 

For product information or information on 



how to get a copy of the p-System Applica- 
tion Catalog, call or write to us 

OflPtf* 1^ T^flOIICfh at SofIech Microsystems. 



SofIech Microsystems • 16885 West Bernardo Drive • San Diego, CA 92127 • (619) 451-1230 

"Universal Operating System is a trademark of SofIech Microsystems Inc., UCSD p-System is a trademark of the Regents of the University of California 

Circle 375 on inquiry card. BYTE July 1983 127 



back to a host computer. Now ter- 
minals are being developed that will 
interface with printers and storage 
devices and that will function as per- 
sonal computers. 

The Time Video Information Ser- 
vices division of Time Inc. will be 
using an interesting terminal for its 
teletext operations in Southern 
California. Although it is a teletext 
terminal (i.e., capable of one-way 
communication only), it will use the 
NAPLPS protocol and will be able to 
download software from the system's 
central computer. According to Larry 



Pfister, vice-president of Time Video, 
these terminals will have a fairly large 
amount of volatile memory and will 
be able to run simple programs 
(games). Matsushita, the Japanese 
firm that will make some of the ter- 
minals, claims that they will even be 
able to interface with disk drives. 

A very interesting terminal is being 
used in Austria for videotex opera- 
tions there. Called MUPID (Multi- 
purpose Universally Programmable 
Intelligent Decoder), this terminal in- 
cludes a Z80 processor, 64K bytes of 
volatile memory, and a full ASCII 



10 reasons whyyou 
should call DataSource 
for software... 



1. 



Free Systems Analysis We have developed 
a variety of sell-administered analysis tools 
to help you identity those products best 
suited to meet your needs. 

fc Competitive Prices Our volume enables us 
f to otter you prices which are consistently 
4* competitive. Compare tor yourself, then call 
us toll-free 800-325-2260. 

» Express Delivery Time is money and we at 
f DataSource understand that. Your order 

■ will be processed and shipped within 24 
hours lor all products in stock. 

I Discount Structures We offer significant 
discounts to any individual, organization or 
» user's group purchasing in quantity. 

Key Account Program For corporations 
and institutions, we offer a comprehensive 

■ program: volume discounts, complete 

» maintenance packages, specially staffed 
f m technical support, a sales team 

experienced in micro applications, and 

several financing options. 



6. 

7 
8 
9. 
10. 



Risk-Free Software We stand behind 
every product we sell. All items are fully 
documented, backed by manufacturer's 
warranties, and are guaranteed by 
DataSource to be in perfect working 
condition. 

Toll-Free Technical Support We service 
what we sell. Our customers have direct 
access to our technical staff on a toll-free 
basis. 800-328-2260. 

National Maintenance Network. We offer 
a variety of maintenance agreements 
i tailored to the specific hardware items you 
select. Call for more information. 

Flexible Payment Options We accept 
most major credit cards, checks, and 
money orders, as well as purchase orders 
from approved corporate accounts. 

State-ol-the-Art Software and Hardware 

We carry a broad range of what we believe 

to be the best in software plus carefully 

selected hardware products and 

accessories. 

Always the current versions in stock. 



Here's a small sampling ot products available now from DataSource." 
(If you dont see what you need, just call us at the number below.) 



Data Base Management 

dBase II - AshtonTate $475.00 

Condor III - Condor computer 495 00 

Easy Filer - IUS 295.00 

Visible - Visicorp 189.00 

Tim III - Innovative Software 325.00 

Infostar - MicroPro 297 00 

Spreadsheets 

Supercede - Sorcim 135.00 

Visicalc - visicorp 189.00 

Lotus 1-2-3 - Lotus Call 

Multiplan - Microsoft 225.00 

Supercalc II - Sorcim 169.00 

Communications 

Crosstalk - Microstui 145.00 

Move it - Wool! software 99.00 

Word Processing 

Wordstar - MicroPro 297.00 

Spellbinder - Lerisofl 295.00 

The Final Word - Mark of the Unicorn 245.00 

Easy Writer II - IUS 265.00 

Volkswnter - Lifetree 155.00 

The Word Plus - Oasis 125.00 

Superwrlter - Sorcim 250.00 

Srammatik - Aspen 60.00 



Languages 

C Basic - Digital Research 
CB80 - Digital Research 
M Basic - Microsoft 
Basic Compiler - Microsoft 
Pascal MT+ - Digital Research 

Miscellaneous 

The Home Accountant - Continental 
Milestone - Organic Software 
Statpak - NW Analytical 
The Norton Utilities - Peter Norton 

Hardware 

Hayes 300 Smartmodem 
Hayes 1200 Smartmodem 
Epson FX80 
OWdata 82-A 
NEC 3550 



125.00 
420.00 
275.00 
310.00 
425.00 



110.00 
245.00 
395.00 
65.00 



215.00 
525.00 
595.00 
439.00 
1915.00 



July Specials from DataSource 

Supercalc - Ail Formats 

Microsoft Basic Compiler - Osborne 

PLUS 

Sal* pricos on all Ovborn* Format loftwai* In stockt 



S1S5.00 
WS5.00 



FOR MOKE INFORMATION CALL TOLL-FREE 

1-800-328-2260 

IN MINNESOTA CALL 612-544-3615 

Purchase orders accepted from corporate accounts All orders are shipped UPS. 
S3 shipping charge on software items. 2f shipping charge on hardware items. 

DATASOURCE 

DATASOURCE SYSTEMS MARKETING CORP 

Your source for micro software and hardware" 

1660 South Highway 100, Minneapolis, MN 55416 



(American National Standard Code 
for Information Interchange) key- 
board. Also, the terminal will rent for 
an incredibly low price of about $8 
per month. One of the prime features 
of the MUPID system will be the 
ability to download and upload soft- 
ware. One of the programs that will 
be downloaded is a BASIC inter- 
preter. 

As videotex and teletext become 
more popular and as their terminals 
become less expensive, these ter- 
minals could become valuable periph- 
erals for personal computer users. For 
example, the new videotex terminal 
by the Consumer Products division of 
American Bell (CIS Product Develop- 
ment, 5 Woodhollow Rd., Parsip- 
pany, NJ 07054) will sell for about 
$600, including a modem. If this ter- 
minal can be conveniently attached to 
personal computers through a serial 
port, this will allow even a very inex- 
pensive home computer to display 
impressive graphics. 

Videographic Systems of America 
(VSA, 520 Madison Ave., New York, 
NY 10022) will soon be producing a 
teletext terminal that will also have 
videotex capabilities. Personal com- 
puters can be attached to this ter- 
minal via an RS-232C connector. Ac- 
cording to Hubert Stijns of VSA, the 
price of the terminal will initially be 
about $1000, but it could approach 
$250 if it can be sold in sufficient 
volume. 

Zenith, the large consumer- 
oriented electronics firm, has been 
making terminals for a number of 
years. Until recently most of these 
terminals have been in the Prestel for- 
mat, but Zenith is now producing 
some of the NAPLPS-based terminals 
for Time Video's teletext operation. 
Very soon, all Zenith television sets 
will have provisions for adding a 
teletext decoder right onto the main 
chassis. 

The powerful graphics capabilities 
of NAPLPS offer another type of pe- 
ripheral service. A Canadian com- 
pany called Avcor (512 King Street 
East, Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
M5A 1M1) will produce high-resolu- 
tion slides of any NAPLPS file you 
can send it. For example, an artist in 
Louisiana can design a picture on an 



128 July 1983 © BYTE Publication! Inc 



Circle 130 on Inquiry card. 




Photo 3: Two examples of high-resolution slides (512 by 512 pixels) produced by Avcor from NAPLPS code. 



Apple computer with one of the 
above-mentioned NAPLPS products 
and then send the NAPLPS code over 
the phone to Avcor. Avcor will then 
display the picture at 512 by 512 reso- 
lution (see photo 3) and send the slide 
back to the artist by mail. Zal Press, 
marketing manager of Avcor, says 
that a slide will cost about $10. Com- 
pany plans include opening similar 
facilities in the U.S., and soon slides 
with a resolution of 4000 by 4000 pix- 
els will be available. 

The Ideal 

A combination personal com- 
puter/videotex terminal would seem 
to be the ideal machine. Such a 
machine should be possible in a few 
years, and it would, in effect, take ad- 
vantage of the best from both worlds. 

In such a system, most of the pro- 
cessing would be done locally. For ex- 
ample, word processing would be 
done completely on your personal 
machine. If you needed a certain 
piece of information, your system 
would automatically search through 
your personal databases. If, however, 
this information could not be found 
in your personal files, then the system 
would automatically become a video- 
tex system and put you in touch with 
the remote database that would be 
most likely to have that information. 

To you, the user, the point where 
the personal databases ended and the 
large remote databases began would 



be transparent in such an ideal 
system. You would simply request a 
piece of information, and the system 
would retrieve that information as in- 
expensively as possible. In the case 
of, say, spelling checking, the system 
would first check the words in your 
personal dictionary file. Any words 
not found in that file could then be 
checked in a larger, multilingual dic- 
tionary at a remote database. 

Similarly, if you asked such a 
system what today's weather was, it 
might search through an index of 
your personal files to see if you had 
made any notes about the weather. If 
not, it would then automatically log 
onto an index of databases, find the 
appropriate database, and log onto it. 
There it would find a frame describ- 
ing the day's weather in beautiful 
graphic detail. 

Such an ideal system represents a 
great deal of work, of course. But the 
trend toward easy-to-use software 
suggests that a system like this is en- 
tirely possible. Note that in the 
future, users will probably not think 
in terms of videotex terminals or even 
personal computers. Users will sim- 
ply see an information system, which 
will process, retrieve, or display any 
information they want, as quickly 
and as graphically as possible. 

Conclusion 

The videotex industry and the per- 
sonal computer industry have some- 



what similar products and are aiming 
at the same market. Although these 
two industries may compete with one 
another for a while, their products 
may gradually evolve to the point 
where they are almost indistinguish- 
able from one another. In the mean- 
time, personal computer owners may 
benefit from a profusion of powerful 
graphics products that will become 
available as a result of this merging. 

There is always the possibility that 
videotex may be overshadowed by 
some other new technology. Some in- 
dustry analysts such as Michael 
McLaughlin of Booz, Allen & Hamil- 
ton have suggested that videotex may 
be an interim technology. Eventually 
most of the functions of videotex will 
be handled by videodiscs, which will 
be distributed to local cable TV sta- 
tions and which will display pictures 
of products as graphically as is now 
done on TV commercials. As Mc- 
Laughlin says, "How can you sell a 
BMW on videotex if it looks indistin- 
guishable from a Volkswagen?" 

But for fast communication of 
graphics information — whether it's 
today's weather or an electronic Val- 
entine's Day card — videotex should 
prove quite effective for some time to 
come.l 



About the Author 

Rich Malloy is a technical editor of BYTE. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 129 




In May, Microsoft announced the 
introduction of its Mouse — an on- 
screen pointing device (see photo 
above) priced at $195 including 
mouse-based software. This relatively 
low-cost package is available in two 
versions: a plug-in board for the IBM 
Personal Computer (and XT) and an 
RS-232C-port version for any MS- 
DOS-based computer. 

The Mouse, a hand-held input 
device, translates the motion of your 
hand to a cursor moving about the 
video-display screen. To use the 
mouse, you simply point to the area 
of the screen that displays your op- 



by Chris Peters 

tions (e.g., menu choices) and press 
the button(s) to choose your action. 
Thus, you are not required to remem- 
ber confusing command sequences or 
even use the keyboard to input 
choices. 

Because the Mouse rests on your 
desktop, it is less fatiguing and 
cumbersome to use than a light pen. 
Furthermore, it is considerably more 
accurate than either a light pen or a 
joystick. For every one-hundredth of 
an inch a mouse moves, a pulse is 
generated. Finally, you need not 
move your eyes from the screen, a 
necessity with keyboard entry. 



Software 

Until recently a mouse was rela- 
tively expensive — around $400, with- 
out the necessary software drivers. A 
mouse has also been difficult to in- 
tegrate with application software 
because it requires a cursor to be dis- 
played on the video display. The rou- 
tine that draws the cursor must be 
called whenever the mouse moves, 
even when the computer is busy do- 
ing something else. If this routine is 
not called, the cursor jumps and 
moves sporadically on the screen as 
the mouse is moved. Until now, the 
only way to redraw the cursor when 



130 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 




PIANO: The Microsoft Mouse Tutorial Progra 

With the PIANO tutorial program, a user can practice moving the Mouse cursor around on a graphics screen. I he program 
begins by drawing a three-octave piano keyboard on the monitor. Moving the Mouse cursor over one of the keys and pressing the 
left (primary) button causes that note to play. The action is like that of an organ (i.e., the note continues to play as long as the key 
is held down but stops immediately upon release). The octaves start on the note C and end on B. The second of the three octaves 
begins on middle C. Pressing the secondary (or right) button causes a note one octave higher to be played. To stop the program, 
simply press either Mouse button while the Mouse cursor is inside the box labeled "Quit." 

As an example of the use of these function calls in an actual BASIC program, the complete source code to the piano demonstra- 
tion (as written for the IBM PC) is given in listing 1 on page 138-143. The following is an explanation of the program details: 



Line numbers 

1000-1090 
1100-1160 
1170-1250 
1260-1380 
1390-1430 



1440-1620 
1630-1810 



1820-1860 

1870-1930 
1940-2150 
2160-2200 
2210-2250 
2250-2250 
2260-2290 

2300-2370 

2380-2430 

2440-2510 

2520-2570 

2580-2630 
2640-3050 



Comments 

Copyright message 

Set up music, clear graphics screen to blue. 
Read in the frequencies for the various piano keys. 
As explained in the text, this code locates the Mouse driver. 

Function call 18 is performed to set the Mouse sensitivity. As set here, 3.2 inches of horizontal motion will move the cursor 
across the entire screen. This relatively high sensitivity was chosen so that songs could be played more rapidly. Accuracy is 
no problem because the piano keys are large. 

The first cursor mask is defined. A logical AND operation is performed on the mask with the graphics screen. In conjunction 
with the Exclusive OR mask, a variety of cursor styles can be selected. 

The Exclusive OR mask is defined. Because the entire AND mask was set to 1, wherever the Exclusive OR mask is set to 1 the 
screen will invert. The following table lists all the possibilities. 
AND mask XOR mask Result 

screen set to 

1 screen set to 1 

1 screen not changed 
1 1 screen inverted 

The Mouse driver is called to set the cursor shape. The cursor center is also defined. In this case, it is the tip of the arrow. The 
Mouse driver will automatically prevent the cursor center from leaving the screen. 
These statements simply read in the Microsoft logo from precalculated data and put it on the screen. 
The white and black (magenta) piano keys are drawn. 
A box labeled "Quit" is drawn in the lower right corner. 

A Mouse call is performed to move the Mouse cursor just under the piano keyboard near the center. 
Mouse function 1 is performed to switch on the Mouse cursor. 

The Mouse driver is called to give the status of the two Mouse buttons and the location of the screen cursor. This is probably 
the most common Mouse call used in applications. 

Some decisions are made. If both Mouse buttons are up or if the Mouse is not on the piano keyboard, then any sound that 
might be playing is turned off. 

At this point, the Mouse button is down over the quit box. The program turns off the Mouse cursor, clears the screen, and 
then quits. 

The program has determined a button is down over the piano keyboard. These statements determine which key the Mouse 
cursor is over. 

The note is played by the SOUND statement set with the correct frequency. This note is played in the background as the pro- 
gram loops back to line 2290. 

This data contains the correct frequency to play the musical notes. 
Data to draw the Microsoft logo using the PUT statement. 



the mouse moved was to write an as- 
sembly-language routine using inter- 
rupts. Interrupts allow the computer 
to stop its current program, perform 
another task (such as updating the 
cursor), and then resume execution of 
the program. Unfortunately, assem- 
bly-language interrupt routines are 
difficult to write, and many BASIC 
programmers have been prevented 
from using mice for their application 
programs. 

The extensive software provided 
with Microsoft's new Mouse does 
away with this problem. Three exam- 
ple programs are included: PIANO 



(see listing 1 on page 138 and the text- 
box above); LIFE (two mouse 
tutorials); and Multi-Tool Notepad (a 
mouse-driven text editor). In addi- 
tion, three software packages are 
included for the programmer: 
MOUSE.COM and MOUSE.SYS pro- 
vide a hardware-independent interface 
between the Mouse and an application 
program; MOUSE. LIB supports the 
use of the Mouse with Microsoft's 
compiled languages (Pascal, BASIC, 
FORTRAN, and COBOL). All of this 
software is compatible with MS-DOS 
(versions 1.1 and 2.0). 

The most significant feature of this 



software is that the cursor will auto- 
matically track the Mouse every time 
it moves, no matter what other task 
the system is currently executing. The 
result is smooth, accurate cursor mo- 
tion — even from interpreted BASIC 
programs, which are usually rela- 
tively slow. 

Another unique feature of the soft- 
ware is the capability to alert the ap- 
plication program when the status of 
the Mouse has changed. Previously, 
programmers had to make periodic 
calls to the interface software to 
determine whether the mouse had 
Text continued on page 136 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 131 



Circle 19 on Inquiry card. 




COI1PUTER PRODUCTS 

ALPHA OMEGA COMPUTER 
PRODUCTS ... The beginning 
of fast, efficient service and 
low- priced computer products- 
The end of mail order worries! 

We have a reputation 
for excellent service and 
low prices and at ALPHA 
Omega, we enjoy living 
up to that reputation. 



DISKETTES 

SCOTCH 3M SS DD 24.95 

MAXELLMD2DD DO 41.00 

PRINTERS 

CITOH 8510 PARALLEL 399.00 

GEMINMO 325.00 

GEMINI 15 415.00 

OKIDATA MICROLINE 92 529.00 

OKIDATA MICROLINE 93 914.00 

EPSON FX-80 SCALLS 

MODEMS 

HAYES SMARTMODEM 300 209.00 

HAYES SMARTMODEM 1 200 524.95 

HAYES MICROMODEM II 279.00 

MONITORS 

USI PI 3 1 2" AMBER 1 59.00 

NEC JB 1201 M 12" GREEN 159.00 

TAXAN 1 2" AMBER 1 29.95 

AMDEK COLOR 113" 299.00 

AMDEK COLOR II 13" RGB 634.00 

IBM PERIPHEALS & SOFTWARE 

TANDON TM55-2 THIN LINE SCALLS 

TANDON TM100-2 259.00 

AMDISK III 3" DISK SYS 690.00 

VISTA MULTICARD SCALLS 

KRAFT & T.G. JOYSTICKS 46.95 

DBASE II 425.00 

WORDSTAR 274.95 

HOME ACCOUNTANT + 79.00 

VOLKSWRITER 140.00 

LOTUS 1 ,2,3 SCALLS 

MULTIPLAN 209.95 

APPLE PERIPHEALS & SOFTWARE 

VIDEXVIDEOTERM 80 COLUMN.. 244.00 

MICROSOFT PREMIUM PAK 474.95 

MICROSOFT 1 6K RAMCARD 69.00 

KRAFT & T.G. JOYSTICKS 45.95 

QUENTIN APPLEMATE DRIVES... 254.00 

SUPER 5 THIN LINE DRIVES 317.00 

WIZARD BP01 6K BUFFERED INT . 1 39.95 

PFS FILING SYSTEM 85.00 

PFS REPORT 67.00 

DBASE II 425.00 

WORDSTAR 274.95 

THESE ARE SAMPLES OF THE 
MANY PRODUCTS THAT ARE 
AVAILABLE. PLEASE CALL 
FOR PRICING AND INFORM- 
ATION. 



(213 



345-4422 



VISA 



Dl 






4847 LA MONTANA CIRCLE 
TARZANA , CA 91356 

All products are in factory sealed packages. We 
guarantee all items for 30 days. Within this period, 
defective merchandise returns must be accom- 
panied by RMA number. All other returns will be 
subject to a 10% restocking fee. For prepaid 
orders there will be a 3% shipping charge, $5.00 
minimum. There will be an additional $4.00 sur- 
;harge on COD orders. Cash orCashiers Check is 
required on COD orders. Calif, residents add 6.5% 
sales tax. Prices subject to change without notice. 



Function Calls for the Microsoft Mouse 

The details of the calls for the Microsoft Mouse (as written for the IBM PC) are 
listed here. The parameters are labeled Ml%, M2%, M3%, and M4%, but they can 
have any legal variable names. 

FUNCTION CALL — Initialize the Mouse 
Input: 

Ml% =0 
Output: 

Ml% = if Mouse hardware not found, —1 otherwise 

M2% = Number of buttons on Mouse 

This call has the dual function of resetting the Mouse driver to default 
parameters. 

FUNCTION CALL 1 - Show cursor 
Input: 

Ml% = 1 

CALL MOUSE (Ml%, M2%, M3%, M4%) 
Output: 

None, but a cursor tracking the Mouse will appear. 

FUNCTION CALL 2 — Hide cursor 
Input: 

Ml% - 2 

CALL MOUSE (Ml%, M2%, M3%, M4%) 
Output: 

None, no cursor will track the Mouse. If the area of the screen contain- 
ing the Mouse cursor is to be modified, the Mouse cursor must first be 
hidden. After the screen is modified the cursor is turned back on using 
CALL 1. 

FUNCTION CALL 3 — Get Mouse cursor position and button status 
Input: 

Ml% = 3 

CALL MOUSE (Ml%, M2%, M3%, M4%) 
Output: 

M2% — Current state of buttons, ** button up 
M3% = Current horizontal cursor position (0-639) 
M4% = Current vertical cursor position (0-199) 

The Mouse cursor position is always defined on a virtual 640 by 200 
screen. This is probably the most common call to the Mouse software. 

FUNCTION CALL 4 — Set Mouse cursor position 
Input: 

Ml% =4 

M3% = New horizontal cursor position (0-639) 

M4% = New vertical cursor position (0-199) 

CALL MOUSE (Ml%, M2%, M3%, M4%) 
Output: 

Mouse cursor will move to the desired location on the graphics screen. 

FUNCTION CALL 5 — Get button-press information 
Input: 

Ml% =5 

M2% = Button number (0 = left button, 1-right button) 

CALL MOUSE (Ml%, M2%, M3%, M4%) 

Output: 

Ml % — Current state of buttons, — button up 

M2% = Count of button presses since last Ml% =5 call 

M3% = Horizontal cursor position when button was last pressed 

Text box continued on page 134 



132 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



ScratchPad 

The Ultimate Spreadsheet for 

CP/M-86, IBM PC DOS, and CP/M 



The Ultimate Spreadsheet? 
YOU BET! 

Packed with more important features and 
performance than any other spreadsheet, Scratchpad 
is perfect for "what if" analyses and financial 
modeling of all kinds. 

The features tell the story: 

Flexible Spreadsheet 

A Scratchpad innovation. Now you can design 
the spreadsheet to fit your application, rather than 
redesigning your application to fit the spreadsheet. 
For example, if you need a worksheet that is 
extremely wide but not very deep, Scratchpad can 
do it. The matrix dimensions are up to you. 

Virtual Memory 

Another Scratchpad innovation. When your 
computer runs out of memory in RAM, your disk 
drives act as a backup memory for additional 
spreadsheet data. (This is something other 
spreadsheet people don't talk about in their ads. 
They can still run out of memory!) 

Scratchpad with a hard disk on the IBM PC, 
for example, allows in excess of 20,000 entries! 
NEVER see those disastrous OUT of MEMORY 
messages again. 

Consolidation 

This lets you combine several spreadsheets, 
adding or averaging the numeric data. It is 
especially useful to businesses that want to 
combine data from several departments, or add or 
average spreadsheets from different months of the 
years. Just another reason why Scratchpad is the 
ultimate spreadsheet. 



These features and many others make 
Scratchpad the most powerful spreadsheet 
available! So, find out why we call Scratchpad the 
Ultimate Spreadsheet. 

Write: Scratchpad Information, SuperSoft, 
Box 1628, Champaign, IL 61820. 

This is what others are saying: 



Small Business Computers, July/August '82 
"In our opinion Scratchpad is an excellent 

business-oriented spreadsheet program, easy to learn, 

easy to use, and well documented." 

InfoWorld, Sept. 6, '82 

"Scratchpad ... [is designed] for users who want 
entry simplicity and fast answers." 

Business Computer Systems, Sept. '82 

"... a new memory innovation from SuperSoft . . . 
ScratchPadfs] virtual memory can accommodate an 
essentially unlimited number of entries by tapping the 
disk drive for secondary memory." 



Available for IBM PC DOS, CP/M-86® and CP/M? 

Scratchpad: $295.00 

(Requires 96K* with PC or MS DOS, 64K* with 
CP/M-86? and 56K with CP/M®) 
Now available for OASIS: call 802-658-5600. 

Japanese Distributor: ASR Corporation International, 
3-23-8, Nishi-Shimbashi, Minato-Ku, Tokyo 105, Japan. 
Tel. (03)-4375371 Telex: 0242-2723. 
European Distributor: Micro Technology Ltd., 51 The 
Pantiles, Tunbridge Wells, Kent, England TN2 5TH. 
TEL. 0892-45433. Telex: 95441 Micro-G. 
•Additional memory recommended for optimal 
performance of all features. 
CP/M and CP/M-86 are registered trademarks of Digital Research. 



Circle 389 on inquiry card. 





FIRST IN SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY P.O.Box1628 Champaign, IL61820 (217)359-2112 Telex 270365 



i. 



CALL TOLL FREE 



1800 4213135 

L UflRgHOUSS 5QPTULinR€ 

WE WILL TRY TO MEET OR BE Af=~~ 
ANY LEGITIMATE ADVERTISED PRICE 
FOR CP/M OR IBM PC SOFTWARE 



MOST DISK FORMATS AVAILABLE - 

Program Names Prefaced With "#" Avail- 
able For IBM PC 
DATA BASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS. 



BUY OF THE YEAR! 

DBASEII + EVERYMANS DATA BASE 
PRIMER + EXTRA DISKETTE WITH DBASE 
ACCOUNTING, MAIL LIST AND INVEN- 
TORY PROGRAMS. IBM PC AND CP/M- 
CALL FOR OUR SPECIAL PRICE. 




#Condor II $475 

#N WA Statpack $339 

tfTIM $285 

tlnfostar Call 

WORD-PROCESSING PACKAGES 

#Wordstar, Mail Merge, Spellstar 

#Wordstar 

#Mail Merge 

#Wordstar. Mail Merge 

#Spell Star 

i Lexisoft Spellbinder 

# Aspen Spellchecker 

#Metasoft Benchmark 

#Sorcim Spellguard 

Peachtree Magic Wand, Spell 

Check, Mail List 
SPREADSHEETS 

#Calcstar 

ffSupercalc 

tMicrosoft Multiplan 
ACCOUNTING 
fTCS Equivalent Of Peachtree Specially 
Augmented By Warehouse Software Cus- 
tomized For Your IBM Terminal And Printer- 

GL. AR. PA, AP Each Module $75 

For All Four $275 

#TCS Total Accounting Call 

#CYMA Call 

tPeachtree GL AR, AP $375 

Sail CP/M For North Star $ 1 50 

LANGUAGES 

C-Basic $99 

cb-80 $395 

Microsoft Basic 80 $250 

Microsoft Basic Compiler $315 

TRANSFER PROGRAMS 

Move-It $95 

IBM PC Move-It $110 

FOR THE IBM PC 



$325 

$95 

§185 
185 



Seven Function Board— Includes Async 
Adapter, Parallel Adapter, Clock with Battery 
Back-Up and Software, Game Port, 64K 
Memory Expandable to 512K. 
1 year warranty Call 



Floppy Disk Controller w/Par. 

Port 

Plantronics Color + Board 

Tandon 100-2 Drives 



or Serial 
$235 

S <?fff 



256K Ram Board W/Async Port $365 

Hayes Smart-Modem 300B $210 

Hayes Smart-Modem 1 200B $525 

Hayes Smartcom Program $49 

PC DOS 

IBM PC Volkswriter S1 35 

PCM Copy Program §34 

Datamost Write-On $94 

Real Estate Investment Prog S94 

Microsoft Flight Simulator $38 

Howard Real Estate Analyzer II , $185 
IBM CP/M-86 

CBasic86 §^^® 

CIS C000I86 $595 

Pascal MT+86W/Spp $450 

TERMS Prices include 3% cash discount Add 3% 

for charge orders Shipping on most items 

$5 00 AZ orders + 5% sales tax 

I UJRR£HOUS£ SOFTUJflRE 

5 4935 West Glendale Ave, Suite 12 
GlendaleAZ. 85301 
(602) 842-1133 Technical Information 
1-800-421-3135 Toll Free Order Line 



M4 % = Vertical cursor position when button was last pressed 



FUNCTION CALL 6 — Get button-release information 
Input: 

Ml% = 6 

M2% = Button number 
CALL MOUSE (Ml%, M2%, M3%, M4%) 
Output: 

Ml % = Current state of buttons, = button up 

M2% = Count of button releases since last Ml% =6 call 

M3% = Horizontal cursor position when button was last released 

M4% = Vertical cursor position when button was last released 

FUNCTION CALL 7 — Set minimum and maximum horizontal value 
Input: 

Ml% - 7 

M3% = Minimum horizontal Mouse-cursor position 
M4% ■» Maximum horizontal Mouse-cursor position 
CALL MOUSE (Ml%, M2%, M3%, M4%) 
Output: 

This call will restrict the Mouse cursor to a certain area of the screen, 
the cursor is outside this area when the call is made, it will be moved 
just inside the area. If minimum is greater than maximum, the two 
values will be swapped. 

FUNCTION CALL 8 — Set minimum and maximum vertical value 
Input: 

Ml% = 8 

M3 % = Minimum vertical Mouse-cursor position 

M4% = Maximum vertical Mouse-cursor position 

CALL MOUSE <Ml%, M2%, M3%, M4%) 

Output: 

This call will restrict the Mouse cursor to a certain area of the 
the cursor is outside this area when the call is made, it will be \ 
just inside the area. If minimum is greater than maximum, the 
values will be swapped. 

FUNCTION CALL 9 — Set graphics cursor block 
Input: 



Ml% 

M2% 
M3% 
M4% 



Horizontal position of cursor center (0-15) 
Vertical position of cursor center (0-15) 
A 16 by 2 array dimensioned as: 
DIM M4%(15,1) 



Output: 




First, a logical AND operation is performed on the 16 by 16 shape 
defined by M4% (aaa,0) with the graphics screen. Then, an Exclusive OR 
is performed on the second 16 by 16 cursor shape in M4% (xxx,l) and 
the result of the AND operation. 

CALL MOUSE (Ml%, M2%, M3%, M4%(0,0)) 

None, but the cursor style in graphics mode will reflect the new table 
values. If the screen is set for 320 by 200 four-color mode, the Mouse 
cursor will move only to even pixel locations on the 640 by 200 screen. 
In this case adjacent bits in the cursor are used to define the cursor 
color. For this reason, the horizontal cursor center should be an even 
number while in 320 by 200 graphics mode. 



FUNCTION CALL 10 — Set text cursor 
Input: 

Ml% = 10 

M2% = = Software cursor, 1 = hardware cursor 

Text box continued on page 1 




134 July 1083 © BYTE Publications Inc 



fomPUTER WAREHOUSE 



CALL TOLL FREE -|. QOQ. g28-1054 



PRINTERS 

C-ltoh 

F-10-Parallel or Serial . . . 

55 CPS Serial or Parallel 

8510 Parallel (Prowriter). . 
Computer International 

Daisywriter2000w/16K . 

Daisywriter 2000 w/48K . 
Comrex 

CR-1-S 

CR-1-P 

CR-2 

Data south 

DS 180 

Diablo 

620 RO 

630 RO 

IDS 

Microprism480 

Juki 

6100 

Epson 

All models 

NEC 

PC-8023A 

3510 

3550 

7710 

2050 

Okidata 

82A 

83A 

84P 

84S 

92 

93 

Olivetti 

PRAXIS 41 (w/interface) 

2300 INK JET 

Star Micronics 

Gemini-10X 

Gemini-15X 

Tally 

1805/1802 

MT 160Lw/Tractors .... 

MT 180 

MT180Lw/ Tractors 

Texas Instruments 

810 Basic 

850 

Toshiba 

P1350 $1460 

Transtar Call 

MODEMS 
Hayes 

Smartmodem 

Smartmodem 1200 . . . 
Novation 

CAT 

D-CAT 

J-CAT 

DISK DRIVES 

Rana (Drives for Apple) 

Elite 1 $245 

Elite 2 $380 

Elite 3 $490 

Controller (w/Drive only) $75 

1000 (For Atari) Call 



$1099 

.$1555 

$345 

Call 
Call 

$665 

$755 

Call 

$1155 

..$910 
$1710 

$480 

Call 

Call 

$399 

$1365 

$1710 

$1900 

Call 

. . $385 
. . $630 
. . $975 
$1060 
. . $490 
. . $835 

$725 
Call 

...Call 
...Call 

$1455 
Call 
Call 
Call 

$1245 
$650 



$205 
$499 

$140 
$155 
$110 



SPECIAL OF THE MONTH 



$725 
OLIVETTI PRAXIS 41 

Includes Serial and parallel Interface 
• Interchangeable Daisey Wheel • 
Three Pitches • 12 CPS • Wide Carriage • 
Automatic Correction • 100 Printable Characters • 
Automatic Repeating • 44 Alphanumeric & 17 Function 
Keys • Ribbon Cartridge 

High Quality Full Character Printer & Typewriter 




VIDEO TERMINALS 

ADDS 

A-1 

VIEWPOINT 60 

Hazeltine 

Esprit I 

Esprit II 

Esprit III 

Qume 

QVT 102 Green 

QVT 102 Amber 

Televideo 

910 or 910 Plus 

925 

950 

970 

Wyse 

WyselOO 

Wyse 300 

Visual 

Visual 50 

Zenith 

Z-29 

ZT-1 Keyboard Only 

MONITORS 

Zenith 

12" Green Screen 

Amdek 

Video 300 

Video 300A 

Color I 

Color I Plus 

Color II 

Color III 

NEC 

JB 1201 

JB1260 

a Taxan 

J0Sr 12" Amber 

fa 



$445 
$685 

$485 
$540 
$730 

$550 
$560 



DISKETTES 

Maxell 

MD-1 (Qty. 100) . . . 
Scotch 

744-0 (Qty. 100) . . . 
Elephant 

S/SS/D(Qty100) 



$250 
$225 
$180 



$560 

$730 

$905 

$1015 

$680 
$1020 

$610 



$635 
$350 



$95 

$130 
$145 
$270 
$310 
$450 
$360 



COMPUTERS 

Altos 

Series 5-15D $2100 

Series 5-5D $3860 

5-80-10 W/MPM $4200 

Corona Call 

NEC 

APCHOi $2275 

APC H02 $2750 

APC H03 $3450 

Northstar 

Advantage $2160 

Advantage w/5MB $3345 

Advantage W/15MB $4315 

Horizon II64KQD .$2625 

Pied Piper 

Communicator I $995 

Sanyo 2-Drive System 
11 Software Packages 
$2049 
System includes: Wordstar, clacstar, mail- 
merge, spellstar, infostar, Sanyo basic, 
CPM, AR, AP, payroll & general ledger 
$1850 without accounting software. 



$155 
$115 



^bmpuTER 

WAREHOUSE 



$125 



Syscom II 64K 




Syscom II is an Apple 




look-alike with upper 




and lowercase 


$550 


Televideo Systems 




TS-802 


$2525 


TS-802H 


$4450 


TS-803 


$1850 



2222 E. Indian School Rd. 
Phoenix, Arizona 85016 



Order Line: 1-800-528-1054 Other Information: 602-954-6109 
Order Line Hours: Mon.-Fri. 10-5 MST Saturday 9-1 MST 

Prices reflect 3% to 5% cash discount. Product shipped in factory cartons with manufacturer's warranty. 
Please add $8.00 per order for shipping. Prices & availability subject to change without notice. 

Send cashier's check or money order. . .all other checks will delay shipping two weeks. 6/83 



Circle 472 on inquiry card. 



This New 
Arrival is... 




^^te 




4 USER, 10 MB $6195 incl. SOFTWARE 

...one bundle 
of Joy! 

CONTROL/9000... 4 users, 10,20 or 
40MB, MP/M based. from $6195 

CONTROL/NET... up to 6 users, 
S-100 bus, each user has 64K & 
Z-80A or B. from $6749 

PLUS 

SELECT™ $495/1,,,, ' 

SUPERCALC™ ,195 ^l^' 

TABSOFT™ Accounting ^4165 
$4855 



CONTROL 

ELECTRONICS 

INC. 



"Dealers call for information" 

SuperCalc is a trademark of Sorcim, Inc. Select is a 
trademark of Select Information Systems, Inc. 
MP/M is a trademark of Digital Research Corp. 
Tabsoft is a trademark of ETC 



707 NICOLET AVE., WINTER F»RK, FL 32789 

(305) 628-3850 




Output: 



M3% — A two-byte word. A logical AND operation is performed on 
M3% and the current text cursor location 

'-• — or — 
the top scan line of hardware cursor 
M4% = A two-byte word. An Exclusive OR operation is performed on 
M.4% and the current text cursor location 

— or — - 
the bottom scan line of hardware cursor 
CALL MOUSE (Ml%, M2%, M3%, M4%) 

None, but the cursor style in text mode will reflect the new values. 



FUNCTION CALL 11 — Read Mouse motion counters 
Input: 

Ml% «■ 11 

CALL MOUSE (Ml%. M2%, M3%, M4%) 

Output: 

M3% = Horizontal mickey count since last Ml% =10 call (positive to 

the right) A mickey is the smallest unit of distance that can be 

resolved by the mouse. 
M4% = Vertical mickey count since last Ml % =10 call (positive 

down) 

A very low level call that is rarely used. See Call 15 for definitions. 



FUNCTION CALL 12 
Input: 

Ml% = 12 
M3% 



Set user-defined subroutine-call mask 



Output: 



Set call mask whose bits are defined as follows: 

bit — call if cursor position changes 

bit 1 — call if primary button is pressed 

bit 2 — call if primary button is released 

bit 3 — call if secondary button is pressed 

bit 4 — call if secondary button is released 
M4% = Offset of the machine-language subroutine, which will be called 

as a far procedure if any of the above conditions are met. 
CALL MOUSE (Ml%, M2%, M3%, M4%) 

NOTE: The default mask is all zero, so no calls are generated. 

If a bit in the call mask is set to 1, then the Mouse driver will perform 
a far call to the user-defined subroutine when that particular condition 
is met. When the routine is called, the registers will contain the follow- 
ing information. 

AX = Mask containing reason routine was called 



Text continued from page 131: 

moved or not. This was wasteful 
because most of the time the mouse 
had not moved. With Microsoft's 
interface software, any time the status 
of the Mouse changes, the Mouse 
driver can execute a user-defined sub- 
routine. Five conditions can be in- 
dependently specified, and when any 
or all of these conditions are met, the 
subroutine is called. The application 
program can be alerted whenever the 
Mouse moves or when either of the 
two buttons on the Mouse is pressed 
or released. 

Microsoft has provided several 



ways of accessing the interface soft- 
ware for the applications software 
developer. The assembly-language 
programmer simply loads the appro- 
priate registers and issues a software 
interrupt; only the registers that pass 
back information are modified. For 
the programmer using Microsoft's 
compiled languages, routines in the 
library MOUSE. LIB will access the 
interface software. Those program- 
mers using Microsoft's interpreted 
BASIC have access to the Mouse in- 
terface with the CALL statement. Op- 
tionally, the mouse may simulate the 
functions of a light pen, making it 



136 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 281 on Inquiry card. 



BX = Button states, = button up 

CX — Horizontal position of Mouse cursor 

DX — Vertical position of Mouse cursor 

This routine is called before the on-screen cursor is updated, so it is 
ideal for changing the cursor shape, depending on its location on the 
screen or for drawing your own cursor. 

FUNCTION CALL 13 — Light-pen emulation mode on 
Input: 

Ml% - 13 

CALL MOUSE (Ml%, M2%, M3%, M4%) 

Output: 

None, but the light pen calls will return Mouse information. Because 
there is no concept of "pen down" or "pen off screen" with a Mouse, 
some compromises will have to be made. The Mouse is "down" if the 
primary or secondary button is down, and "up" if the primary or 
secondary button is up. By default light-pen emulation is on. 

FUNCTION CALL 14 — Light-pen emulation off 
Input: 

Ml% = 14 

CALL MOUSE (Ml%, M2%, M3%, M4%) 
Output: 

None, light-pen emulation stops. 

FUNCTION CALL 15 — Set mickey/pixel ratio 
Input: 

Ml% = 15 

M3% — Number of mickeys required to move 8 horizontal screen pixels 

M4% = Numberof mickeys required to move 8 vertical screen pixels 

CALL MOUSE (Ml%, M2%, M3%, M4%) 

NOTE: 1 mickey = 2 Mouse increment 

1 pixel — 1 640 by 200 picture element 

None, but the amount that the Mouse must be moved to move the 
cursor will vary according to the inputs. Note that this mickey/pixel 
ratio is defined on a (possibly) virtual 640 by 200 screen. The Mouse 
driver will automatically compensate for lower-resolution screens. The 
default value for the horizontal mickey/pixel ratio is 8. The default 
vertical value is 16. This means that it will take 6.4 inches of Mouse 
travel to move across the screen horizontally and 4.0 inches of travel to 
move across the screen vertically. This distance is independent of the 
current screen mode. 



Output: 



simple to retrofit existing programs 
by using the light-pen statements 
built into BASIC (and other lan- 
guages). 

Calling Your Mouse 

Although there are 16 different 
Mouse functions available to the pro- 
grammer, they are all called in the 
same way (see "Function Calls," page 
132). A procedure named MOUSE is 
executed via the CALL statement in 
the format 



CALL MOUSE (n, n, n, n) 



Four interior parameters are always 
specified, even though some of them 
may be dummy values. The param- 
eters can have any legal variable 
name, but in the examples here, they 
will always be labeled Ml%, M2%, 
M3 % , and M4 % . The % means that 
the variables are integers. The first 
parameter (Ml%) specifies which of 
the 16 functions are to be executed. 
Lines 1260 through 1380 in listing 1 
on page 138 must be executed before 
any Mouse calls are performed to 
determine where the MOUSE func- 
tion is located in memory (all exam- 
ple programs are designed to run on 



FOR TRS-80 MODEL I OR III 
IBM PERSONAL COMPUTER 



The MMSFORTH 

System. 

Compare. 

• The speed, compactness and 
extensibility of the 
MMSFORTH total software 
environment, optimized for 
the popular IBM PC and TRS- 
80 Models 1 and 3. 

• An integrated system of 
sophisticated application pro- 
grams: word processing, data- 
base management, communi- 
cations, general ledger and 
more, all with powerful capa- 
bilities, surprising speed and 
ease of use. 

• With source code, for custom 
modifications by you or MMS. 

• The famous MMS support, in- 
cluding detailed manuals and 
examples, telephone tips, 
additional programs and 
inexpensive program updates, 
User Groups worldwide, the 
MMSFORTH Newsletter, 
Forth-related books, work- 
shops and professional 
consulting. 




FORTH 



A World of 
Difference! 

• Personal licensing forTRS-80: 
$129.95 for MMSFORTH, or 
"3/4TH" User System with 
FORTHWRITE, DATA- 
HANDLER and FORTHCOM 
for $399.95. 

• Personal licensing for IBM 
PC: $249.95 for MMSFORTH, 
or enhanced "3/4TH" User 
System with FORTHWRITE, 
DATAHANDLER-PLUS and 
FORTHCOM for $549.95. 

• Corporate Site License Exten- 
sions from $1,000. 



If you recognize the difference 
and want to profit from it, ask us 
or your dealer about the world 
of MMSFORTH. 

MILLER MICROCOMPUTER SERVICES 

61 Lake Shore Road, Natick, MA 01760 

(617)653-6136 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 137 



the IBM Personal Computer). 

The Mouse cursor is made up of 16 
by 16 points, its shape is definable 
from application programs, and it 
can be used in all screen modes. The 
cursor always appears to move over 
the data on the screen. As it continues 
to move, the shapes are restored to 
the screen. 

Summary 

The Microsoft Mouse makes mouse 
capabilities available to users of the 
IBM PC and computers running 
under MS-DOS, without requiring 
assembly-language programming and 
at an inexpensive price. It opens up 
the possibility of a whole new genera- 
tion of software. With the Microsoft 
Mouse and interface software, the in- 
dependent software writer can easily 
develop mouse-based applications. ■ 

About the Author 

Chris Peters is a systems software engineer at 
Microsoft Corporation (10700 Northup Way, 
Bellevue, WA 98004). In addition to the Mouse 
Project, he worked on Microsoft's Softcard and 
helped develop MS-DOS 2.0. 



Listing 1: The source code of the VIRTUAL PIANO demonstration program, written in 
IBM PC BASIC. 



THE VIRTUAL PIANO 

COPYRIGHT (C) 1983 BY MICROSOFT CORPORATION 
WRITTEN BY CHRIS PETERS 



INTIALIZE 



OOO 

010 

020 

030 

04O 

050 

060 

070 

080 

090 ' 

100 DEFINT A-Z 

110 DIM CURSOR(15, 1) ,FREO(27, 2) .MICROSOFT (839) 

120 KEY OFF 

130 PLAY"MF" 

140 SCREEN 1 

150 COLOR 1, 1 

160 CLS 

170 ' 

180 ' Read in the -flat, normal, and sharp note frequencies 

190 ' 

200 FOR J=0 TO 2 

210 FOR 1=0 TO 6 

220 READ K 

230 FREQ(I,J)=K : FREO ( 1+7, J ) =K»2 : FREQ < 1+14, J ) =K*4 : FREQ < 1+21 , J) -K*8 

240 NEXT 

250 NEXT 

260 ' 

270 ' Determine Mouse Driver location, if not found, quit. 

280 ' 

290 DEF SEG=0 

300 MSEG=256*PEEK (51*4+3) +PEEK (51*4+2) ' Get mouse segment 

310 M0USE=256*PEEK (51*4+1 ) +PEEK (51*4) +2 ' Get mouse offset 

320 IF MSEG AND MOUSE THEN 1370 

330 PRINT"Mouse driver not found" ' Not found, so print error. 

340 PRINT 

350 PRINT"Press any key to return to system" 

360 I*=INKEY* : IF 1*="" THEN 1360 ELSE SYSTEM 

370 DEF SEG=MSEG ' Rot mniiso unwnt 

3BO Ml = : CALL MOUSE (Ml , M2, M3, M4) ' Initialize the mouse 

390 ' 

400 * Set Mouse sensitivity 

410 ' 

420 Ml = 15 : M3-4 : M4=8 

430 CALL MOUSE (Ml, M2,M3,M4) 



Listing 1 continued on page 141 





The Most Promising Duet 
For Ait Orchestra. 

Our duet is perfect ior a single user system. 
The same duet performs even better in a multi-user orchestra. 






\ 

S-100 Single Board 
Computer I Single 
or multi processor 
capability i Pro- 
grammable master 
or slave selection 
] Redundant pro- 
cessor manipulation 

■ 4MHz Z80A or 
6MHz Z80B CPU ■ 
64K RAM and 2K EPROM with n onil < 

■ 2 serial, 2 parallel, 4 timer 
ports ■ Bi-directional inter- 
processor channel ■ Dual 
mode serial ports interface ■ 
Multi-layer PCB construction 

Circle 216 on Inquiry card 




DCM • 80t S- 1 00 Disk Controller 
Module a 8" and/or SVi" floppy disk 
controller ■ SASI (ANSI, SCSI) hard disk 
host adapter m Single and double density, 
single and double side Software 
mplementation on CP/M 1 
2.2 and TurboDOS? 

TM off Digital Research, Inc. 
1 TM off Software 2000, Inc. 



JC SYSTEMS 



469 Valley Way 
Milpitas, CA 95035 
408-9450318 
TWX#91 0-381 -7041 




EXPENSES \ CUS ^^ ER \ INVOICES PR< usT CT TIME LOG 



field compnnion 



Now you can leave your office without abandoning your business. Gensoft has combined five of the most 
common business functions in one versatile software dazzler: the Field Companion. 

The Field Companion is as flexible and capable as today's business professional, handling everything from 
itineraries to invoices. Don't overload your desktop or portable computer with five bulky programs when one will do 
it all. For instance, the Field Companion will help you: 

• Summon proc. jet, parts or repair information when and where you need it. 

• Update customer files and write purchase orders during or after a client conference. 

• Stay on top of expenses — with a weekly expense tally itemized by day and category. The Field Companion 
asks for all pertinent information, such as "Who were the guests?" and "What was the subject discussed?" 

• Generate invoices or quotations, and store them for future reference. 

• Record and compile the time you spend on each project or client. 

The Field Companion provides universal business forms, concise on-screen instructions and password 
confidentiality. Field Companion — currently included with high-performance CompuPro" systems — will also 
interface with virtually any CP/M " -based word processor, allowing full editing of reports, journals, etc. The regular 
price is $129, but for a limited time you can order the Field Companion at our introductory price of $99.95 (plus $10 
for our concise, uncomplicated manual). 

MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE: Examine the Field Companion for ten days after you receive it — if you have any 
doubt that it is worth every penny you've paid, send it back to us with the disk seal intact for a full refund. 

For executives on the move, business IS pleasure ... \, ith the Field Companion. 



GENSOFT 

CORPORATION 



Available for CP/M-80™ and CP/M-86" operating systems; MS-DOS" version available third 
quarter 1 983. Special Osborne 1 version is customized for smaller screens. Please specify 
computer make/model and disk format. Include street address for UPS delivery within 3-6 weeks. 
VISA, Mastercharge, C.O.D. and personal or business checks accepted. Dealer inquiries welcome. 

CP/M, CP/M-86 and MS-DOS are registered trademarks and CP/M-80 is a trademark of Digital Research. CompuPro is a 
registered trademark of Godbout Electronics: Field Companion is a trademark of Gensoft Corporation 



Gensoft Corporation, 2363A Boulevard Circle, Walnut Creek. CA 94595 — (415) 930-9330 



illJ;IJ;l[H^*H^^i[i]^lil^l^iliMJiKI 



SHIPPING MAKE US COMPETITIVE. 
OUR PEOPLE MAKE US EXPERTS. 



Red Baron. Home of the Nation's Largest Computer Printer Inventory. 




NEC 8023/DMP 85 

Quality and Performance 

•100CPS 
« 5 unique alphabets 
including Greek 

• 8 character sizes 

• Dot graphics 

• Vertical and 
horizontal tabbing 

NEC 8023/DMP 85 $Cdll 

The Okidata Series 

Advanced, Multifunction Printing 

• 160/200 CPS 

• Correspondence 
quality 

• Okigraph dot 
0jP ^^^ graphics 

• Alternate downline 
loadable character set 

Okidata 92 List $ 699 

Okidata 93 (w/Tractor) . .List $1249 Cf oil 
Okidata 84 (Parallel) List $1395 v>lrdll 

The Buffered Grappler + ™ 

Apple Buffered Graphics Interface 

• 16K Buffer, upgradable to 32K or 64K 

• All Standard Grappler + features, 23 Text and 
Graphics Commands in all 

• Compatible with most popular dot matrix 
printers 

• Automatic memory configuration, self test 

Buffered Grappler + $239 

Grappler + $175 

Grappler + (IDS Color) $175 

The Bufferboard $175 

TeleVideo CRT's 

Price, Performance and Reliability 

TeleVideo knows 
top value means top 
features at a low 
price! 

List Discount 

910 ::■.■::-:■'.-.■:-. .::':r: $ 699 $575 

925 $ 995 $730 

950 $1195 $945 

970 $1495 $Call 




The Epson Series 

High-Quality Printers 

•160 CPS 
m • Dot graphics 

• Proportional 
spacing 

Hi • Super/subscript 
a • Underlining 
— — — _____ • Downloadable 
character sets 

Epson FX series V wdll 

IDS Microprism 480 

Prints like a daisy, priced like a matrix! 

• Correspondence 
quality in a single 
pass 

, Dual speed 75, 
~ J _ $ 110 CPS 

J • Proportional 
spacing 

• Text justification 

IDS Microprism 480 List $799 y L»°JI 

Anadex Silent Scribe 

The Quiet Matrix Printer 

• Up to 500 CPS 
in • Industrial duty 

• Correspondence 
quality printing 

• Graphics 
List Discount 

Anadex DP-9501A $1 ,725 $1 ,325 

Anadex DP-9620A $1 ,845 $1 ,475 

Anadex 9625A $1 ,995 $1 ,605 

Anadex WP-6000 (w/Tractor) .$3,450 $2,960 

Cables and Accessories 

Custom Printer Cables for Apple, 

Atari, IBM, TRS-80 (and MORE!) SCall 

CCS Apple Serial Interface 

and Cable $150 

Complete Stock of Epson 

Accessories SCall 

Printer Stands: Large $ 99 

Small $ 25 

Printer Ribbons— Most Types SCall 

Signalman Modem SCall 

Hayes Micromodem II $300 



Star Micronics 
Gemini 10/15 




• 100 CPS 
•120 x 144 dot 

graphics 

• 2.3 K buffer 

• Underlining 

• Super/subscript 



Lowest 
Priced 

Dot 
Matrix 







IDS Prism 

Affordable Color, High Speed 



• 200 CPS 

• 24 x 9 dot matrix 

• Color graphics 

• Text justification 
> Proportional 

spacing 



Prism 80 Base List $1,299 An ■■ 

Prism 132 Base List $1,499 pUdll 

Brother HR-1/DX-15 

Perfect for quality word processing 

•15/16 CPS 

s !_:.■■- - v : * * Bi-directional 

f MrwrwwrTBxfll • printing 

• Quiet, efficient 
operation for word 
processing 

Brother HR-1 List $1150 An ■■ 

Brother DX-15 List $ 599 plrdll 

Other Quality Products 
at Red Baron 

Printers List Discount 

NEC Spinwriter RO 

Serial Parallel 7710 $3055 $2500 

Serial 3510 $1895 $1640 

Smith-Corona TP-1 $ 895 SCall 

Monitors 

Amdek Video 300 List $ 249 $ 1 60 

Amdek Color 1 List $ 499 $ 355 

Diskettes 

Verbatim Diskettes SCall 

Color Coder Diskette Cases $ 16 






Here's How To Order: 

Phone orders are welcome; same-day ship- 
ment on orders placed before 11:00 a.m. 
Free use of MasterCard and Visa. COD's 
accepted. Personal checks require 2 
weeks clearance. Manufacturer's warranty 
included on all equipment. Prices subject to 
revision. APO/FPO Orders Welcome. 



Red Baton 




COMPUTER PRODUCTS 



4501 E. Eisenhower Cir., Anaheim, CA 92807 



National Order Desk: 

(800) 854-8275 

Product Information/ 
Order Inquiries: 

(714) 779-2779 



Circle 349 on inquiry card. 



Listing 1 continued: 



1440 

1450 

1460 

1470 

1480 

1490 

1500 

1510 

1520 

1530 

1540 

1550 

1560 

1570 

15BO 

1590 

1600 

1610 

1620 

1630 

1640 

1650 

1660 

1670 

16SO 

1690 

1700 

1710 

1720 

1730 

1740 

1750 

1760 

1770 

1780 

1790 

180O 

1810 

1820 

1830 

1840 

1850 

I860 

1870 

1880 

1890 

1900 

1910 

1920 

1930 

1940 

1950 

1960 

1970 

1980 

1990 

2000 

2010 

2020 

2030 

2040 

2050 

2060 

2070 

2080 

2090 

2100 

2110 

2120 

2130 

21 40 

2150 

2160 

2170 

2180 

2190 

2200 

2210 

2220 

2230 

2240 

2250 

2260 

2270 

2280 

2290 

2300 

ave 

2310 

ave 

2320 

2330 

2340 

2350 

2360 

2370 

2380 

2390 



Define the "logical and" cursor mask 



CURSOR ( 
CURSOR ( 
CURSOR ( 
CURSOR ( 
CURSOR ( 
CURSOR ( 
CURSOR ( 
CURSOR ( 
CURSOR ( 
CURSOR ( 
CURSOR ( 
CURSOR ( 
CURSOR < 
CURSOR < 
CURSOR ( 
CURSOR ( 



0,0) 

1,0) 

2,0) 

3,0) 

4,0) 

5,0) 

6,0) 

7,0) 

8,0) 

9,0) 

10,0) 

11, O) 

12, O) 

13, O) 

14,0) 

15, O) 



=&HFFFF 
=ScHFFFF 
=&HFFFF 
=8iHFFFF 
=&HFFFF 
=!cHFFFF 
=&HFFFF 
=SeHFFFF 
=S.HFFFF 
=&HFFFF 
=fcHFFFF 
=&HFFFF 
=!.HFFFF 
=8<HFFFF 
=&HFFFF 
=!<HFFFF 



Binary 1 

Binary 1 

Binary 1 

Binary 1 

Binary 1 

Binary 1 

Binary 1 

Binary 1 

Binary 1 

Binary 1 

Binary 1 

Binary 1 

Binary 1 

Binary 1 

Binary 1 

Binary 1 



Hill 
11111 
11111 

mil 
urn 
urn 
urn 
mil 
inn 
urn 
urn 
urn 
mil 
urn 
mil 
urn 



Define the "exclusive or" cursor mask 



0,11- 
1,1)' 
2, 1) = 



CURSOR ( 
CURSOR ( 
CURSOR ( 
CURSOR < 3, 1 ) i 
CURSOR ( 4,1)= 
CURSOR ( 5,1) = 
CURSOR ( 6, 1 ) = 
CURSOR ( 7,1) = 
CURSOR ( 8,1)= 
CURSOR ( 9,1) = 
CURS0FM10, 1) = 
CURSOR (11,1)= 
CURSOR (12, 1)= 
CURSOR (13, 1>= 
CURSOR (14, 1)= 
CURSOR (15, 1)= 



S.H300 ' Binary 000000 1 1 OOOOO0O0 

tcH300 • Binary OOO0O0 1 1 OOOOOOOO 

S.HFCO ' Binary OOOO 1 1 1 1 1 1 OOOOOO 

S.HFCO ' Binary 00001 1 1 1 1 1O000O0 

&H3FFO ' Binary OOl 1 1 1 1 1 111 lOOOO 

&H3FF0 ' Binary OOl 111 1 1 1 1 1 10OO0 

ScHFCFC ' Binary 1 1 1 1 1 10O1 1 111 loo 

&HCOOC ' Binary 1 1 OOOOOOOOOO 1 1 OO 

&H0 ' Binary OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

*H0 ' Binary OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

ScHO " Binary OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

S.HO ' Binary OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

&HO ' Binary OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

S.HO ' Binary OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

ScHO ' Binary OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

S.HO ' Binary OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 



' Set the mouse cursor shape 

Ml = 9 : M2 = 6 : M3 = O 

CALL MOUSE (Ml, M2.M3, CURSOR (O, O) ) 

Draw the MICROSOFT logo from pre-cal cul ated data 

FOR 1=0 TO 779 

READ MICROSOFT(I) 

NEXT 

PUT (62, O) , MICROSOFT, PSET 

' Initialize keyboard size parameters 

YL = 60 : WKL = 80 : BKL = 45 : KW = 15 : WKN m 21 

XL = 320-KW*WKN : YH = YL + WKL : XH = 319 : BKW2=KW\3 

QX = 272 : QY = 176 

' Draw the white keys 

LINE (XL,YL)-(XH,YH).3,BF 
FOR I=XL TO XH STEP KW 
LINE (I,YL)-(I,YH),0 
NEXT 

Draw the "black" keys 

C=6 

FOR X=XL TO XH STEP KW 

C=C+1 : IF C=7 THEN C=0 

IF C=0 OR C=3 THEN 2150 

L I NE ( X -BKW2 , YL ) - ( X+BKW2 , YL+BKL ) , 2, BF 

NEXT 

Draw the quit box 

LINE(QX,QY)-(319, 199), 3, B 
LOCATE 24,36 : PRINT"Quit"; 

Set mouse cursor location, then turn on cursor 

Ml = 4 : M3 = 320 : M4 = 160 : CALL MOUSE (Ml , M2, M3, M4> 
Ml = 1 : CALL MOUSE (Ml, M2,M3,M4) 



Ml=3 : CALL MOUSE (Ml, BT, MX, MY) ' Get mouse location and button status 
IF (BT AND 2) THEN 0TV=7 : GOTO 2340 ' If right button down, set high Oct 



IF (BT AND 1) THEN OTV=0 : GOTO 2340 



If left button down, set lower oct 



SOUND 442,0 

GOTO 2290 

MX = MX\2 

IF MX <= XL OR MY < YL THEN 2320 

IF MY <= YH THEN 2470 

IF MY < QY OR MX < QX THEN 2320 

* Button down inside the quit box 



' If both buttons up, turn off sound 

' Keep looping... 

' Correct for medium resolution screen 

p If above keyboard, turn off sound 

' If on keyboard, play sound 

' If above quit box, turn off sound 



Listing 1 continued on page 143 



Circle 109 on Inquiry card. 



NEW 

68000 

GROWS 

WITH YOU 

WICAT 
System 155 

Here's the flexibility you've been 
waiting for. Extra MULTIBUS™ 
slots allow expansion with extra 
memory and/or a wide variety of 
devices for business, engineer- 
ing, and software development 
uses. 




• Motorola 68000 • 512KB memory 

• 12 MULTIBUS'" slots (3 occupied) 

• MCS operating system, utilities, 
and choice of language. 

$9390 

Three devices can be added as 
options, including: 

• Winchester disk (10MB, 15MB) 

• New Winchester disk (33MB, 45MB) 

• floppy disk (630KB) 

• cartridge tape (17MB) 

• expansion to 12 users 

• New hardware floating point 
arithmetic 

SOFTWARE 

• integral ™ database and 
MenuSystem™ 

• complete business system 

• New bisync communication to 
IBM mainframes • UNIX'" 



Concurrent "copoa-on 

1870 Madison Road Cincinnati, Ohio 45206 

(513) 281-1270 TELEX 170980 

HIGH PERFORMANCE MICRO COMPUTERS FOR SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY 












July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 141 



Keep your bottom line 
on theupandup 
and up. 



The future never comes with any 
guarantees. 

But there is a way to improve 
tomorrow's business performance 
today. 

It's a microcomputer program 
called the Bottom Line Strategist™ 

The future is now. 

With the Strategist and your 
microcomputer, you can explore 
alternative business decisions and 
get answers to the questions 
common to any business focused 
on growth: 

How much 
money are we 
risking? Will 
the business be 
profitable? 
When? Is that 
soon enough? 
Can we 
improve this 
by changing 
the price? 
What's the 
impact of our assump- 
tions on net worth, cash flow, 
market penetration and growth? 

The Strategist uses seven 
sophisticated econometric models 
originally developed for compa- 
nies on the Fortune 500 list. 

But it's pre-programmed, so 
all you do is enter your current 
business assumptions, then sit 
back and watch the dynamics of 
your future unfold graphically. 




r 






1 










ts.oo 

7.50 
O.OO 




..III 




/.SO 
IS.OO 


""III 




||l' 




Twin- in month* 
Q TO PWtWT Q TO ZOOM IN 1. ti' . A FOB MENU 



The Strategist plots (and tabu- 
lates) your marketing and sales 
projections; anticipated cash flows; 
break-even point; Net Present 
Value; and more— a total of 11 
production, financial and market- 
ing forecasts. 

If any area looks interesting, 
the unique "zoom" takes you in 

for a closer look 
at the picture. 
And if you don't 
like what you 
see, do it all 
over again. 
Instantly. 
Without any 
programming. 

And do it as 
often as you need 
to get the results 
that you want. 

Tomorrow's answers today. 

The Strategist is a unique 
short-cut to experience, without 
the hard knocks. 

You can refine your pricing 
policies. Optimize your cash flows. 
And maximize your profits while 
minimizing your risks. 

In today's business climate, 
how much is that worth? The 
Bottom Line Strategist is $400. 



Our no risk offer. 

You can check out the 
Bottom Line Strategist with no 
financial risk. 

Drop by a dealer showroom 
and run through a hands-on 
demonstration. Then take home a 
package and use it for 30 days. 
It runs on 8-bit and 16-bit micro- 
computers (IBM PC, Apple II, 
CP/M, etc.) If you don't like it, 
return it and you'll get your 
money back. 

For the name of your nearest 
dealer, contact Ashton-Tate at 
10150 West Jefferson Boulevard, 
Culver City, CA 90230. 

Better yet, call (213) 204-5570 
today. Because if time is money, 
the Bottom Line The 

monifm 15 Bottom Line 

money in C«—.«..~,~:„i.™ 

the bank. btrategist 



ASHTON-TATE 



Circle 36 on inquiry card. 



CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research. ©Ashton-Tate 1983. 



Listing 1 continued: 



Turn off mouse cursor 

Clear screen 

quit 



Continue looping 



2400 ' 

2410 Ml=2 : CALL MOUSE (Ml , M2,M3,M4> 

2420 CLS 

2430 END 

2440 " 

2450 ' Button down over keyboard, determine which key 

2460 ' 

2470 WKY = (MX-XL) NKW+OTV : R = 1 ' Get which white key cursor is over 

2480 IF MY > YL+BKL THEN 2560 ' is it lower than the black keys? 

2490 MK=(MX-XL) MOD KW ' No, get which side of key 

2500 IF MK <= BKW2 THEN R=0 : SOTO 2560 " Is it the left black key? 

2510 IF MK >= KW-BKW2 THEN R=2 " Is it the right black key? 

2520 ' 

2530 ■ Play the note. For BASIC interpreter duration = 2 

2540 ' For BASIC compiler duration =1 -■ 

2550 ' 

2560 SOUND FREQ (WKY, R) , 2 

2570 GOTO 2290 

25B0 • 

2590 ' Musical note frequencies 

2600 ' 

2610 DATA 131, 139, 156, 175, 1B5, 208,233 

2620 DATA 131,147,165,175,196,220,247 

2630 DATA 139,156,165,185,208,233,247 

2640 ' 

2650 • Data to draw the MICROSOFT logo 

2660 ' 

2670 DATA 462,28,0,0,0.0,0.0,0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0 

2680 DATA 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0 

2690 DATA 0,0,0,-193,240,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0 

2700 DATA 0,0,0,0,0,768,-1,0,0,0,0,3840,-1,-16129,0,-253,0,0,-193,240 

2710 DATA 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,-193,0, 16128,4095,252, 16128,-1,240,-256,-769,0 

2720 DATA 0, 0, 0, 0, -193, 240, 768, -1 , 255, 768, -1 , 1023, -1 , -1 , 240, 0,0, 0, -193, 192 

2730 DATA -256,4095,252,-253,-1,255,-256,-1,240,-253,-1,-1,768,-1,255,16128,-1,- 

3841,768,-1 

2740 DATA 1023, -1,-1, 240, O, O, O, -193, 192, -256, 4095, 252, -193, -1 , -3841 , -256,-1 , 252, 

-1009,0 

2750 DATA -256,4032,-1,-16129,-253,-1,-1,768,-1,1023,-1,-1,240,0,0,0,-193,240,-2 

53,4095 

2760 DATA 252,-3841,0,-961,-256,-1,255,0,0,0,3840,-1,-16129,-241,0,-253,960,-1,1 

023,-1 

2770 DATA -1,240,0,0,0,-193,240,-253,4095, 1020,255,0,-253,-256,4032,-16129,-1,-1 

,-1,4092 

2780 DATA 4095,-16129,-4033,0, 16128, 1008, -1 , 1023, -1 , -1,240,0,0,0, -193, 252, -241,4 

095, 1020,252 

2790 DATA 0,-256,-256,960,-15361,252,0,0,4095, 1023,-16129,-16321,0,3840, 1008,255 

,0,3840,252,0 

2800 DATA 0,0,0,-193,252,-241,4095,4092,240,0, 16128,-64, 192,-16129,0,0,0,3840,25 

5,0 

2810 DATA 255,0,76B, 1020,255,0,3840,252,0,0,0,0,-193,255,-193,4095,4092,240,0,16 

12B 

2820 DATA -64, 192,-12289,-1, 192, -241 , -12289, -3B41 , 0, 255, 0, 768, 1020, 255, 0, 3840, 25 

2,0,0,0 

2830 DATA 0,-193,255.-193,4095, 16380, 192,0,3840,-16,960,-12289,240,0,0,-15553,-1 

,768,252,0 

2840 DATA O, 1023,255,0,3840,252,0,0,0,0,-193,-16129,-1,4095, 16380, 192,0,0,-256,4 

032 

2850 DATA -16129, 0, 0, 0, 768, -1 , lOOB, 252, 0, 0, 1023, -1 , 255, 3840, 252, 0, 0, 0, 0, -3265 

2860 DATA -16129,-3073,4095, 163BO, 192,0,0,-256,-1,4095,-1,0,-253,-16129,-1, 1020, 

252,0,0, 1023 

2870 DATA -1 , 255, 3840, 252, O, 0,0,0, -3265, -3073, -3073, 4095, 16380, 192, O, O, -256, -1,4 

095,240 

2880 DATA 0,0,-16321,-241, 1023,252,0,0, 1023,-1,255,3840,252,0,0,0,0,-4033,-3073, 

-15361 

2890 DATA 4095, 16380, 192,0,0,-256,-1,252,0,0,0,0, 16128,-15361,252,0,0, 1023,-1,25 

5 

2900 DATA 3840,252,0,0,0,0,-4033,-1,-15361,4095, 163B0, 192,0,0,-256,-1,4092,240,0 

>0 

291 O DATA -16321,768,-3073,252,0,0, 1023, 255,0, 3B40, 252,0,0,0, O, -4033, -193, 1023,4 

095,4092 

2920 DATA 240, 0,0, -256, -64, 4092, -1 , 192, -241 , -16129, O, -3B41 , 255, O, 76B, 1020, 255, O, 

3840,252 

2930 DATA 0,0,0,0,-4033,-193, 1023,4095,4092,240,0, 16128,-64,4032,255,0,0,0, 16128 

,252 

2940 DATA -3841,255,0,768, 1020,255,0,3840,252,0,0,0,0,-4033,-241,1020,4095, 1020, 

252,0 

2950 DATA -256,-256,960, 1023,252,0,0, 16383, 1023,-3841,-16321,0,3840, 1008,255,0,3 

840,252,0,0 

2960 DATA 0,0,-4033,-241, 1020,4095, 1020,255,0,-253,-256,960,-16129,-1,-1,-1, 1638 

0,-l,-3B41,-4O33 

2970 DATA O, 161 2B, 1008,255,0,3840,252,0,0,0,0,-4033,-253,1008,4095,252,-3841,0,- 

961,-256 

2980 DATA 192,-16129,0,0,0,3840,-1,-16129,-241,0,-253,960,255,0,3840,252,0,0,0,0 

2990 DATA -4033,-253, IOCS, 4095, 252, -193, 76B, -3B41 , -256, 192,-16129,-1009,0,-256,4 

032, -1 , 255, -253, 240, -193 

3000 DATA 768, 255, O, 3B40, 252, O, O, O, O, -4033, -256, 960, 4095, 252, -253,-1 , 255, -256, 19 

2,-16129 

3010 DATA -253,-1,-1,768,-1,252, 16128,-1,-3841,768,255,0,3840.252,0,0,0,0,-4033, 

-256 

3020 DATA 960, 4095, 252, 16128, -1 , 240, -256, 192, -16129, O, O, O, O, -193, 192, 768, -1 . 255, 

768,255 

3030 DATA 0,3840,252,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,768,-1,0,0,0,0,3840,-1 

3040 DATA -16129. O. O, O. O. -193. 240. O. O. O. O. O. O. O. O. O. O. O. O. O 

305O DATA 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,-193,240,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0 




C.ITOH 



Prowriter 8510 $345 

F-10 Serial $1110 

F-10 Parallel $1110 

COMREX 

CR-l-S $670 

CR-l-P $760 

CR-2 $AVE 

DATASOUTH 

DS-180 $1170 

DIABLO 

620RO $920 

630RO $1720 

IDS 

Microprism 480 $485 

EPSON 

RX80 $AVE 

MX100 $AVE 

FX80 $AVE 

Free Cover with each Epson Printer 

NEC 

8023A $395 

3510 $1370 

7710 $2045 

OKIDATA 

82A $390 

83A $635 

84S $1070 

84P $980 

STAR MICRONICS 

Gemini 10X&15X $AVE 

TALLY 

MT 160Lw/ Tractors $570 

MT 180Lw/Tractors $785 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 

810 Basic $1240 

TOSHIBA 

1350 Par or Ser $1475 

TELEVIDEO 

910 

910+ 

920 

925 

950 

970 ". 

803 



PIED PIPER 

COMMUNICATOR I 



$570 
$570 
$735 
$740 
$915 
$1025 
$1860 

$999 



Prices reflect 3% to 5% cash discount. Product shipped in 

factory cartons with manufacturer's warranty. Free shipping 

is on UPS ground only. Prices & availability subject to change 

without notice. Send cashier's check or money 



*&*. 



order. ..all other checks will delay shipping 
two weeks. 






«S88§«* 



July 19(3 © BYTE Publication. Inc 143 



ill! til?. 

• . . Ml ill tff til III 

ill 





*&' 



Victor. How a first name 

can make it big 
in the business world 

What does it take these days to be successful? 

First, speak several languages. Have a large and infallible memory. Adapt 
at lightning speed. Stay accessible 24 hours a day. Be practical. And, above all, 
remain simple and inexpensive. 

That's exactly why Victor® is a leader. The leading 16-bit microcomputer 
in Europe. 

Start with the fact that Victor speaks virtually all Western languages. 
Fluently. And, you can adapt Victor's keyboards to either language or business 
specific applications. 

Then, Victor has a large and useful memory. That's vital. 

And Victor is highly flexible and adaptable. With appropriate software, 
Victor can perform thousands of jobs at electronic speed, tn fact, Victor's ex- 
tensive software library allows you to put Victor to work in your office, depart- 
ment or plant immediately. Productively. 

Finally, Victor is cost-conscious. When it comes to price and performance, 
you can't buy more computer for less. 

A success in the business world? Absolutely. To find out how a first name 
can make it big in your business, contact Victor at the address or phone num- 
ber below. 



Circle 431 on inquiry card. 



mm 

VICT 




The computer you call byname. 

VICTORTECHNOLOGIESIW 380EI I'l EB1.0ROAD sa>lTSV-\U,n.CA95066(408)438-6680. 
VICTORTECHNOlOGlBSEVROPB.NmOOFSESTEENWeG71.1750SCHEPDMLBELGI0VE.(2)5m.5500: 



The ultimate printing machines. 

Perfect business partners for IBM, Apple, 
Osborne, Eagle and other micros. 



sBr""" 



BUSINESS GRAPHICS 

iilll 

61 82 83 84 83 



FORECASTED PROFITS 





One machine solutions to every 
application. Prices starting at $698. 



Meet the leading family in multi- 
functional micro printers. The 
80-column Tally MT 160 for a 
small footprint; the 132-column 
Tally MT 180 for accounting and 
spreadsheet packages. (Print at 
20 cpi and get 264 columns!) 

A Word Processing package 
gives you letter quality text, 
proportional spacing, margin 
justification, auto centering. A 
resident Graphics package offers 
the versatility of two different dot 
densities. And you get high 
speed report printing at 160 cps 



bi-directionally. Plus eight 
different resident character 
widths for condensed or double- 
wide printing. 

There's more. 3-way paper 
handling lets you use fanfold 
forms, letterhead or roll stock. 
The control panel has a 
conversational program menu for 
easy "answer a question" push- 
button set-up. The dual interface 
has both a serial and parallel port 
for direct plug compatibility with 
your micro (no hidden interface 
costs!) And one look at the solid 
machine construction lets you 



know that Tally builds printers to 
last! 

Tally has the printers for today 
that you won't outgrow tomorrow. 

Mannesmann Tally, 8301 S. 
180th Street, Kent, Washington 
98032. Phone (206) 251-5524. 
Mannesmann Tally Canada, 703 
Petrolia Road, Downsview, 
Ontario M3J 2N6. Phone (416) 
661-9783. 

For the name of the sales 
outlet nearest you, call toll free 

1-800-447-4700. 

(In Illinois 1-B00422-4400) 

MANNESMANN 
TALLY 

Computer printers manufactured In the 
U.S. and Europe for worldwide markets. 

Circle 247 on Inquiry card. 



Benchmarking the Intel 
8086 and 8088 

The 8086 is faster than the 8088, but there's more than 
execution speed to consider when selecting a computer. 

by Gregg Williams 



The Intel 8086 (iAPX 86) owes 
much of its popularity to its introduc- 
tion in 1978 as one of the first 16-bit 
microprocessors. That same year, 
Intel also introduced the 8088 (iAPX 
88), a companion microprocessor 
that is virtually identical to the 8086 
but that communicates over an 8-bit 
data path rather than the 8086 's 16-bit 
path. From its introduction, the 
8088's lower price and its familiarity 
to designers of 8-bit systems have 



made it the microprocessor of choice 
in an increasing number of applica- 
tions. And when IBM chose the 8088 
for its Personal Computer, the chip 
surpassed the 8086 in popularity. 

Component price is an important 
criterion because of its effect on 
system price, but the relative perfor- 
mance of the two microprocessors 
should be weighed in the context of 
complete system price and perfor- 
mance. To more fully explore the 





Execution 


Times 


Ratio 


Description 


8086 


8088 


8086/8088 


empty-loop benchmark (BASIC) 


4.24 


6.00 


1.42 


GOSUB benchmark (BASIC) 


8.19 


11.5 


1.40 


30,000 additions (BASIC) 


61.4 


86.0 


1.40 


5000 square roots and multiplications (BASIC) 


38.0 


53.2 


1.40 


Gilbreath sieve benchmark (BASIC) 


147. 


205. 


1.39 


MID$ benchmark (BASIC) 


14.6 


20.3 


1.39 


C = A/B benchmark (BASIC) 


12.6 


17.5 


1.39 


unoptimized bubble sort (assembly language) 


71.4 


89.9 


1.26 


graphics-scaling routine (assembly language) 


55.4 


60.1 


1.08 



Table 1: Real-world benchmarks that execute groups of assembly-language instruc- 
tions. All results are accurate to three significant digits. For more details, see the text 
boxes, figure 2, and listing 2. 



merits of the two devices, BYTE con- 
ducted a benchmark study that 
should help anyone who's faced with 
choosing between systems built with 
either microprocessor. 

The results of that benchmark 
study show that the 8088 is slower 
than the 8086, varying from 10 per- 
cent to 20 percent slower for numeric- 
intensive applications to as much as 
40 percent slower for other applica- 
tions (see tables 1 and 2). The main 
reason for the popularity of the 8088 
in computers available today remains 
the difference in the price of the chips 
two to three years ago, when these 
machines were designed. And al- 
though that price differential has 
decreased significantly, system manu- 
facturers may still choose the 8088 
because of the price advantage it 
gives them in a highly competitive 
market. 

Historical Considerations 

When the 8086 and 8088 were first 
introduced, their prices, in quantity, 
were about $97 and $48, respective- 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications lnc 147 







8086 








8088 




Ratio 


Description 


Recorded 


Empty Loop 


True Time 


Recorded 


Empty Loop 


True Time 


8088/8086 


4 ADD AX,1 


26.5 


11.4 


15.1 


44.2 


13.9 


30.3 


2.01 


4 ADD AL,1 


21.5 


11.4 


10.1 


34.1 


13.9 


20.2 


2.00 


4 XCHG BL.AL 


21.5 


11.4 


10.1 


34.1 


13.9 


20.2 


2.00 


4 XCHG BX.AX 


21.5 


11.4 


10.1 




34.1 


13.9 


20.2 


2.00 


4 MOV[30],AX 


41.6 


11.4 


30.2 




69.4 


13.9 


55.5 


1.84 


4 MOVAX,[30] 


39.2 


11.4 


27.8 




64.4 


13.9 


50.5 


1.82 


4 ADD AX,[30] 


51.1 


11.4 


39.7 




79.4 


13.9 


65.5 


1.65 


4 MOV[30],AL 


41.6 


11.4 


30.2 




59.3 


13.9 


45.4 


1.50 


4 ADD AL,[30] 


51.1 


11.4 


39.7 




69.3 


13.9 


55.4 


1.40 


4 M0V[31],AX 


51.7 


11.4 


40.3 


69.4 


13.9 


55.5 


1.38 


4 near JMPs 


56.8 


11.4 


45.4 


69.4 


13.9 


55.5 


1.22 


4 MULWORD[30] * 


120. 


3.80 


116. 


125. 


4.63 


120. 


1.04 


4 MUL BYTE [30] * 


76.1 


3.80 


72.3 


77.6 


4.63 


73.0 


1.01 


4 short JMPs 


56.7 


11.4 


45.3 




59.2 


13.9 


45.3 


1.00 



Table 2: Pure benchmarks of individual 8086 assembly-language instructions. All results are accurate to three significant digits. 
The MUL instructions (marked with asterisks) differ from the others in having an outer loop executed 10 (hexadecimal) times. For 
more details, see the text boxes, figures 1 and 2, and listing 1. 



ly — a difference of $49. In addition, 
an 8086-based system design required 
several more chips: a bidirectional 
bus transceiver (such as the Intel 
8286) to transmit and receive the top 
8 bits of the data bus and several TTL 
(transistor-transistor-logic) chips to 
organize the memory into 16-bit 
words. These chips added about $6 in 
parts to the 8086-based design, for a 
total price differential of about $55. 
Given the designer's rule of thumb 
that the final price of a product 
(because of extra labor, documenta- 
tion, circuit-board area, product sup- 
port, price markup, and other fac- 
tors) is three to six times the actual 
component cost, the use of an 8086 
over an 8088 in 1978 meant an in- 
crease in the product cost of between 
$165 and $330; using $250 as a com- 
promise figure, the cost of the 8086 
represented about 8 percent of the 
selling price of a $3000 computer. Al- 
though this was not a prohibitive ex- 
pense, it was taken seriously by many 
manufacturers. 

These factors influenced the design 
of systems such as the IBM Personal 
Computer (introduced in August 
1981, work on its design began in 
early 1980) and the Texas Instruments 
Professional Computer (introduced in 
February 1982, work on its design 
began in early 1981). The extra- 
components cost of an 8086-based 
system is lower than $250 now (more 



on that later), but it was probably 
close to that in 1981 and even closer 
in 1980. 

Bill Skelton, hardware manager of 
the Texas Instruments Professional 
Computer, says that cost considera- 
tions influenced the design of the TI 
machine. 'The 8088 led us to a lower- 
cost solution in terms of manufactur- 
ing costs," he says, but the price dif- 
ferential for components alone was 
"in a range of a few tens of dollars 

It is reasonable to Infer 

that the IBM PC would 

run BASIC about 40 

percent faster if IBM 

had designed it 

using an 8086. 

versus a few hundreds of dollars 
when TI made its system." He very 
roughly estimated the manufacturing 
cost to be $40 to $50, raising the final 
price by $125 to $200. But, he says, 
"the $3000 machine market is intense- 
ly competitive — even a few hundred 
dollars' price difference is important." 
Although the design of the TI PC 
was swayed by cost considerations, it 
was also influenced by the IBM PC 
(to which it still bears a faint similari- 
ty) and other factors. One subtle ad- 
vantage of the 8088 over the 8086, 
Skelton says, is its ability to be con- 



figured as a 64K-byte system using 
cost-effective 64K-bit memory chips. 
(The smallest 8086-based system that 
can be designed using 64K-bit chips is 
a 128K-byte system.) A minimum 
configuration of 64K bytes is attrac- 
tive to most manufacturers because it 
enables them to offer a system with a 
lower base price — a point that was 
probably not lost on IBM, which also 
designed a minimal 64K-byte system. 
When the TI PC was being de- 
signed, Skelton says, the 8086 was 
not a serious contender. Given the 
prices of the various chips at the time, 
"the real controversy was the Z80 
versus the 8088, not the 8086 versus 
the 8088." He continues, 'The payoff 
on the 8088 is not its performance but 
its ability to have huge amounts of 
memory" compared to the 8-bit Zilog 
Z80, which can address a maximum 
of 64K bytes. In this light, the 8088 
was the obvious choice for TI. 

Present Price and Benchmark 
Considerations 

The 8086 now sells for $30 in quan- 
tity, the 8088 for $20. Because chip 
prices have fallen and the price dif- 
ferential between the two processors 
has narrowed, the component price 
differential is now about $16. At a 
markup of three to six times, the price 
difference between an 8088-based sys- 
tem and its equivalent 8086-based 
counterpart is $48 to $96. Although 



148 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



3 

o 
ca 

>- 

CO 

X 
EH 
< 

O 
_3 
J 

s 

>- 
o 

Z 

< 

< 

O 

SB 

EH 
O 

o 

Pd 
OS 

a 
a- 

s 

a 

CO 

X 

CO 

a 

Z 

S3 

Q 

o 

bJ 

Of 
Cd 

CO 

CO 

2 

< 

CO 

O 
-J 
< 
EH 



o 

CQ 

2 
< 

o 

of. 



Amazing! This was Printed on an Epson 

by The tfcuncy $Wii™ System from g>of tGlraf t 



Letter Quality 

Say good-bye to correspondence quality and 
hello to S'anot/ SWs high-resolution, pro- 
portionally spaced, letter quality. S&ncy 3b>nl 
provides fonts in sizes from 8 to 40 points; 
styles include Roman, Bold, Italic, Script, 
Old English, and more (see samples below). 
All this on low-cost Epson MX and FX 
printers. 

Create Your Own Characters 

You can use over 30 font sets in the 9vncy 
&»<rU package and furthermore, can create 
any new characters or logos you like, up to 
1 inch by 1 inch. A database of over 1500 
characters is included in the package. 

Font Style and Size Samples 

(actual size) 
8 point Roman 10 point Roman 12 point Roman 

18 point Bold 18 pt. Sans Serif 
18 pt Italtc 20 fd. tforifd 

20 p0tnt Mb tEngttstf 



Easy-to-Use 

5iamcy Jwf is a software package for 
CP/M and IBM PC compatible systems; no 
special hardware or installation is required. 
With &anct/ S^iU you use your favorite editor 
or word processing package to create a file 
to be printed. Include as few or as many 
formatting directives as you desire. Then use 
&*noy $*ni to print your file. 

Numerous Applications 

&»>*& $**t customers are constantly dis- 
covering new applications. For example: 

Business and personal letters 

Custom forms, invoices, labels, signs 

Foreign Languages 

Mathematical Notation, Greek 

Super- and Sub-scripts 

View Graphs 

Custom Letterheads 

Resumes 

Articles for publication 

Entire newsletters, brochures 

Complete manuals, cover-to-cover 

Advertisements, including this one 



Invitations, place cards 

SoftCraft, Inc 8726 S. Sepulveda Bl Suite 1641 LA, CA 90045 (213) 821-8476 



Gray 



$am*Aj S®mi now available for CPfhA and IBM PC systems! 



InfoWorld 

Software Report Card 

Fancy Font 



fill 

Performance D Q D 

Documentation Q □ O 

Ease of Use □ Q D 

Error Handling D O D 



la- BAMi/iHi44von<f' Iba* 

cAawrnxisoL oammiX iZ. 

InfoWorld b/2/82 



CP/M and IBM are registered 
trademarks of Dicital Hesearc 



Copyright 1983 by Popular Computing, 
Inc, a subsidiary of CW communications, 
Inc Reprinted from InfoWorld 
NOT PRINTED BY FANCY PONT 



and IBM respectively 



ch 



SoftCraft 8726 S Sepulveda Suite 1641 LA, CA 90045 
(Epson or IBM printer with Graftrai required) 

Fancy Font System $180 00 

Fancy Font Demo Diskette $ 10.00* 

California Residents add 6.5S sales tax 

Outside US add $10 ($2 demo) postage 

Mail check or money order to SoftCraft 

Diskette Format: 

D 8" CP/M D Osborne D KayPro 

D 5 1/4" IBM PCDOS" □ Apple CP/M" 

*$7.50 applicable towards purchase of Fancy Font 
"IBM requires 128K memory 
L*"^it"iU. a ?l!IRi I '? nt _*iiLPLL n l? r _i n i? r J*£2 req_uired_ 



THIS ENTIRE AD WAS PRINTED ON AN EPSON MX80 PRINTER AT THE ACTUAL SIZE SHOWN 

Circle 374 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 149 



The three best micros 

you can buy: 

^^ "factor mimhpr- ^K_. i ^^ 



"Faster number 
crunching than rny 
mini.' 



"Gazelle's speed 
and programming 
tools make software 
development a snap.' 



If you're lookingfor an ex- 
tremely high performance 
computer tor scientific and 
engineet ing applications, 
the Seattle Computer 
Gazelle™ isforvou. 

Or, if you're in the 
market for an ultra-fast, 
powerful micro with a 
complete software development 
system for the IBM PC and othet 
MS-DOS systems, the Gazelle is an 
absolute whiz. 

Or, if you need serious mini- 
computer peiformanc e in your bus- 
iness accounting applications at 
micro prices, look for— you guessed 
it— the Seattle Computer Gazelle. 

In fact, the new Gazelle is 
really three 16-bit micros in one. 

For floating point scientific 
and engineering applications, the 
Gazelle equipped w ith our op- 
tional 8087 number crunching 
hardware easily out-performs most 
minis in both speed and accuracy. 
Pascal, FORTRAN and BASIC 
compilers are available with full 
8087 support. 

150 BrTE July 1983 




"Gazelle has 
flexibility and 
features for every 
part of my 
business." 



Seattle Computers 
I Gazelle^r^ 

For software development, 
the Gazelle comes with the MS- 
DOS operating svstem -the same 
as used by the IBM PC. You can 
program in Pascal, FORTRAN, 
BASIC C, or assembly language. 
You ( an even plug a 5" disk drive 
into our disk controller to directly 
produce disks for the IBM PC, 
Zenith Z- 100, and other MS-DOS 
systems. 

For business applications, the 
Gazelle has a full complement of 
accounting software from MBSI 
running on Ryan/McFarlandCobol. 
This is serious business software, 
not like some of the "toys" on the 
market. It was developed for minis 



and has the comprehensive 
features you would expect. 
For any of these three 
broad application areas, 
the Gazelle now offers an 
optional 15 megabyte Win- 
chester hard disk drive. 
Standard Gazelle 
features include: 8 Mhz. 
8086 CPU set, MS-DOS, 128K 
RAM, three RS-232 ports, a parellei 
port, 2.5 megabytes of 8" floppy 
disk storage, 12 extra S-100 slots 
for future expansion and Micro- 
soft BASIC interpreter. 

Best of all, you can buy the 
fully tested Seattle Computer 
Gazelle for only $5995. And, you 
can add the 1 5 MB hard disk for just 
$2595. 

hor serious micro-computing, call 
us at 1-800-426-8936 for more informa- 
tion and the location of your nearest 
Gazelle dealer. 



&MM 



I bK 



1 114 Industry Drive, Seattle, Washington 98188 

Circle 363 on Inquiry card. 



this is not the economic handicap it 
used to be, it will still influence manu- 
facturers in favor of the 8088. 

Setting aside price as a system 
selection criterion for the moment, 
it's time to consider the benchmark 
results in detail. The BYTE study con- 
sisted of real-world and "pure" 
benchmarks. The numeric results of 
the real-world benchmarks are given 
in table 1; those of the pure bench- 
marks are in table 2. Figure 1 shows 
the execution time of selected assem- 
bly-language instructions for each of 
the two chips (8086 and 8088) and for 
each of the two possible data lengths 
(8- and 16-bit). Figure 2 shows the ex- 
ecution time ratio of the 8088 to the 
8086 for selected pure and real-world 
benchmarks. (The results shown here 
are representative of a larger number 
of measurements that were taken 
while researching this article.) The 
text box on page 154 contains further 
information. 

Analysis of Real-World 
Benchmarks 

The real-world benchmarks (the 
last three bars in figure 2) show that 
the 8088 performs much better with 
the numeric-intensive graphics rou- 
tines than it does with the data-move- 
ment-intensive bubble sort or the 
BASIC sieve program. This result 
agrees with the conclusions reached 
about the relative performance of 
numeric- and data-intensive instruc- 
tions. All the BASIC benchmark pro- 
grams produce almost identical sta- 
tistics (see table 1), implying that the 
8088-to-8086 execution ratio (dictated 
by the underlying instruction mix be- 
ing executed) does not change much 
regardless of the BASIC program be- 
ing interpreted. 

If the real-world benchmarks are 
more accurate indicators of the rela- 
tive performances of the 8086 and 
8088 microprocessors, we can gener- 
alize, very roughly, that numeric- 
intensive applications are about 10 
percent slower on the 8088 compared 
to the same program running on an 
equivalent 8086-based system with 
16-bit-wide memory. That's assuming 
the program executes a good number 
of multiplication and division instruc- 




8086, 8-BIT 
OPERATION 



8086, 16-BIT 
OPERATION 



8088, 8-BIT 
OPERATION 



8088, 16-BIT 
OPERATION 



MOV 



Mill- 



Figure 1: A comparison of representative 8086 instructions by processor (8086 versus 
8088) and operand length (8 versus 16 bits). 



w 20 

i 

K 1.8 

z 
o 

5 1.6 
o 

X 

ui 1.4 

IB 

n 
o 
00 1.2 



2.00 



UJ 



1.0 



| 0.8 

V- 

§ 0-6 
x 

UJ 

95 0.4 



1.82 



1.65 



1.22 



1.00 



1.04 



1.39 



1.26 



1.08 



a. SHORT 16-BIT NEAR 16-BIT 16-BIT 16-BIT GRAPHICS BUBBLE SIEVE 

JMP MUL JMP ADD MOV XCHG ROUTINE SORT PROGRAM 

> ~ * y ' (BASIC) 

(ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE) ' ' 

Figure 2: Performance ratios for selected pure and real-world benchmarks. The ratios 
are obtained by dividing the execution time of the 8088 for that benchmark by the exe- 
cution time of the 8086. The first six bars are derived from the pure benchmarks of table 
2; the last three are from the real-world benchmarks of table 1. 



tions; if it executes primarily addition 
and subtraction instructions, the per- 
formance of the 8088 will be consider- 
ably slower. Data-intensive applica- 
tions may be about 25 percent slower; 
however, the performance of a 
BASIC interpreter indicates that some 
programs will be about 40 percent 
slower. 



Considering the Pure Benchmarks 

The 8088 performs poorest (figure 
2) against the 8086 in pure bench- 
marks with data-movement instruc- 
tions (MOV and XCHG) and best 
with program-control instructions 
(JMPs). There is a seeming paradox, 
however, in that the 8088 performs 







© 

o 

"■■■.•jH^^k. 

w 





ftacKlxt 5000' 



In a word, a star is born. 



PeachText 5000™ has arrived. 
A complete personal productivity 
system for word processing, financial 
modeling, mailing lists and simple 
data-base management. All at one 
price -$395.00. And all from 
Peachtree Software Incorporated. 

The quality is unmistakably 
Peachtree: proven, powerful appli- 
cations with menu-driven features, 
easy-to-use documentation and quick 
access to "Help" prompts. And they're 
fully interactive. 

PeachText 5000 is available for the 
IBM Personal Computer,™ the 
COMPAQ Portable Computer,™ 
the Texas Instruments Professional 
Computer™ and the Zenith Z-100. 

The PeachText 5000 Personal 
Productivity System includes: 



1 



Word processing 



PeachText™ word processor. 
PeachText has long been recognized 
as one of the best in the industry, 
with sophisticated print capabilities 
second to none and complete editing 
capabilities for creating and manipu- 
lating a variety of documents. We've 
made it even better for PeachText 5000. 

We've even installed the Random 
House Electronic Thesaurus™ in 
PeachText. 

Spelling Proofreader. This high- 
performance package can check a 
10,000-word document for spelling 
and typographical errors in less than 
two minutes.* 



2 



Financial planning 



Turn your computer's memory 
into a worksheet for financial and 
other mathematical analysis. 
PeachCalc™ will address up to 256K 
of RAM, so you don't have to worry 
about your memory space outstripping 
PeachCalc's capacity. Combine 
spreadsheets with PeachCalc's merge 
functions or insert PeachCalc reports 



into PeachText documents. You can 
even use the "Execute" command to 
set up material from PeachText or 
other files to be fed into PeachCalc. 



3 



Data management 



List Manager. This module uses 
Peachtree's state-of-the-art screen 
manager and index file manager to 
give you complete control over the 
design and use of mailing lists, labels 
and other files or reference aids. 
Output can be used with the 
PeachText word processor to indivi- 
dualize form letters or template 
documents. 

Limited Time Introductory Offer 

Now PeachText 5000 is available for 
$395.00. That's right-just $395.00. 

And that's not all. With 
your PeachText 5000 
package you will 
receive: 

A free box of 10 
Peachtree/Wabash 5 r A 
diskettes to hold the 
fruits of your new 
Peachtree productivity. 

A coupon to get 
Peachtree's "Access Pak' 
for $10.00. The Access 
Pak, which has a retail 
value of $525.00, includes 
Information Access, which 
allows you to extract information 
from Peachtree accounting 
products for use with PeachText 



5000 applications. And you get file 
converter programs to make 
existing WordStar,* Easy Writer™ 
and VisiCalc™ files usable with 
PeachText 5000 — because you 
shouldn't have to suffer because 
you've waited this long for the com- 
plete personal productivity system. 

Free 30-day support from Peachtree 
Software Incorporated, on return 
of the registration card. 

PeachText 5000 is here. The com- 
plete personal productivity system. 
And it's unmistakably Peachtree. 

Circle 313 on inquiry card. 

*In actual trials using an IBM Personal Computer 
and 320K diskettes, Spelling Proofreader checked a 
10.024-word document in one minute and 15 seconds, 
using the standard 20,000-word dictionary supplied 
with the package. Checking times may vary depending 
on your hardware. 




WordStar is a trademark of MicroPro International 
Corporation. 

Easy Writer is a trademark of Information Unlimited 
Software. 

VisiCalc is a trademark of VisiCorp. 

Random House Electronic Thesaurus is a trademark 
of Random House Inc. 



Unmistakably Peachtree 




Peachtree^ 
Software" 



Who are the dealers in my area? 

Name: 

Company: 

Aricirfs.s: 

City: 



_ Telephone:. 



_State_ 



© 1983 Peachtree Software Incorporated an MSA company 

3445 Peachtree Road, N.E./8th Floor/ Atlanta, Georgia 30326/1-800-554-8900 



BY 



\ 



Technical Details About the 
Benchmarks 

The hardware we used included a 
20-slot terminated Compupro High- 
Performance Motherboard, Compu- 
pro s floppy-disk system (two 8-inch 
Qume floppy-disk drives), and com- 
puter boards from Lomas Data Prod- 
ucts. The Lomas boards were the 
Lightning One processor board (which 
can use the 8086 or the 8088 micropro- 
cessor as well as the 8087 arithmetic or 
8089 I/O coprocessor chips), the 
RAM67 128K-byte CMOS static RAM 
board, the Hazitall system support 
board (used for a serial port to a Wyse 
WY-100 terminal), and the LDP72 
floppy-disk interface board. The soft- 
ware we used included Digital Re- 
search's CP/M-86 version 1.1 (used for 
all the benchmarks except BASIC), 
Microsoft's MS-DOS version 1.10, and 
Microsoft's MBASIC-86 revision 5.21. 

Each benchmark was executed three 
times; execution times were recorded 
to the nearest hundredth of a second, 
averaged, and rounded to three signifi- 
cant digits. For the assembly-language 
benchmarks listed in table 1, the actual 
benchmark programs are created by 
inserting four copies of a given instruc- 
tion into the framework of listing la; a 
sample program is given in listing lb. 
The final benchmark time associated 
with a given instruction is its bench- 
mark execution time minus that of an 
empty loop. The ]MP benchmarks use 
four J MPs, each of which points to the 
instruction after it. Because the MUL 
instructions were relatively slow, their 
benchmark programs substituted 
"MOV SI, $10" for "MOV SI,$30" as the 
first instruction. 

The bubble-sort and graphics-scal- 
ing routines mentioned in table 2 are 
given in listings 2a and 2b. The bubble 
sort sorts a list of 2048 16-bit data 
elements. The graphics-scaling routine 
takes a list of 16 x,y pairs and creates a 
list of altered x', y' pairs by the formulas 
x' = (21/4)(x-15) and y' = (21/4) 
(y — 8); you might perform this 



graphics operation on a list of data 
points to be viewed in a different way. 
The empty-loop, COSUB, MID$, and 
"C=A/B" BASIC benchmarks are sim- 
ple BASIC instructions executed in a 
loop 5000 times. These four bench- 
marks and a modified Sieve of Eratos- 
thenes benchmark— popularized by 
Jim Gilbreath — are listed in the Janu- 
ary 1982 BYTE, p. 54. The addition 
and square root/multiplication pro- 
grams of table 2 are given in listings 2c 
and 2d. 

(Note to nitpicking readers: please 
do not write in with improvements to 
the bubble-sort program in listing 2a. 
It is admittedly slow and could be re- 
placed by a better method or improved 
by bumping the beginning comparison 
point after each pass through the table 
of values. Nevertheless, this program 
has the ability to exercise data-move- 
ment instructions heavily and fulfills 
the prime requirement of a bench- 
mark — to be an arbitrary program that 
can be run in different situations — in 
this case, on different microproces- 
sors — to provide data with which to 
make comparisons.) 



The Benchmark Conditions 

An analysis of the 8086 and 8088 
chips would be worthless without 
some quantitative evidence, so an en- 
vironment was devised in which mean- 
ingful comparisons could be made. 
Hardware included a Compupro High- 
Performance Motherboard (an S-100 
motherboard with active termination) 
and a set of S-100 boards from Lomas 
Data Products. The Lomas boards 
were chosen because they allowed easy 
switching between an 8086-based sys- 
tem using 16-bit memory and an 8088- 
based system using 8-bit memory. In 
particular, the Lightning One central 
processing unit board can hold either 
an 8086 or an 8088 in the same socket; 
it senses the chip being used and recon- 
figures the RAM67 memory board to 
reorganize itself as either 8 bits wide 



(for the 8088) or 16 bits wide (for the 
8086). 

Various individual 8086 instructions 
were benchmarked by executing them 
repeatedly in a loop (both chips will 
execute identical 8086 machine-lan- 
guage code) using Digital Research's 
CP/M-86 operating system and DDT86 
debugging program. To assure that the 
final benchmark execution time re- 
flected that of executing the instruction 
under examination, an empty loop was 
executed (i.e., the same program as 
described above, but without the 8086 
instruction being tested) for each 
machine, and this time was subtracted 
from the loop-plus-instruction execu- 
tion time. These are the "pure" bench- 
marks because they test the perfor- 
mance of single assembly-language in- 
structions; the final benchmark 
figures, sorted in decreasing amount of 
speed difference, are given in table 2. 

As a second level of benchmark, 
several assembly-language programs of 
varying lengths were tested. One, an 
unoptimized bubble-sort routine, 
moves a lot of 16-bit quantities, which 
should emphasize any execution-speed 
weakness of the 8088. Another, a 
graphics-scaling routine, involves 
much numeric calculation and little 
data movement, which should empha- 
size the relative merits of both chips in 
numeric-intensive applications. 

As a final level of benchmark, BYTE's 
BASIC benchmarks were timed. These 
were first described in a review of the 
IBM Personal Computer (January 
1982, p. 54). The programs ran under 
Microsoft's MS-DOS operating system 
and its MBASIC language. To that 
were added two BASIC programs that 
did, respectively, 5000 square-root and 
multiplication operations and 30,000 
floating-point additions. Because 
MBASIC is an interpreted language, 
the BASIC benchmarks should be con- 
sidered as real-world assembly-lan- 
guage benchmarks along with the pro- 
grams mentioned above. — G.W. 



almost identically to the 8086 on a 

16-bit multiply instruction but fares 

nuch worse on a 16-bit addition. 

Figure 1 shows some interesting 

condary information about the 

96 and the 8088 microprocessors. 

•h group of four bars represents the 

T7&3 

July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



execution times for the 8086 doing an 
8- and 16-bit version of the same 
operation, followed by the 8088 do- 
ing the same 8- and 16-bit operation. 
The 8088 operates more slowly than 
the 8086, and the 8088 performs 8-bit 
operations faster than equivalent 



16-bit ones. But the 8086 takes exact- 
ly the same time to do some opera- 
tions in both their 8- and 16-bit ver- 
sions. The times are identical for 
XCHG (exchange the contents of two 
registers) and MOV (move from reg- 
ister to memory) and only slightly 



© <D ® 



'linn M-i n Mr 







CPU PLUS 



•[•' 



amily 



Enhance your, 
IBM PC ' 




CP/M® Co-processor. 

The co-processor concept that gave the IBM PC user instant access to 
20,000 CP/M programs. Its Z-80 T "CPU-based design, plus 64K RAM 
makes BABY BLUE a powerful co-ordinator of all PC-DOS functions and 
CP/M programs. 




256K RAM 



$256 



No-Frills Memory Board 

Plugs right in your IBM PC, "plain vanilla" memory expansion at a buck a 
kilobyte. For full parity, you add $49. For another $49.95, we'll send you 
our RAM Drive, a program that turns your RAM into a virtual disk system 
for super fast access to files. Either way, you have a solidly designed 
well-crafted 256K of memory. Remember, it's from the same people who 
built the BABY BLUE. Fully warranted for a year. 



Disk Controller 



$395 



8" Floppies 

This Microlog-designed controller package (board and support software) 
gives you 8" format utility, CP/M transfer (read/write) for CP/M programs 
on large floppies. Also works under MS-DOS. Easy to install, enhances 
your Baby Blue capabilities. 




Large Floppy 

Single $995 
Dual $1495 



8" Single/Dual Systems 

These Microlog disk systems give you 1.2 M/Byte of 8" double-density, 
double-sided floppy disk storage — either single drive or dual drive — 
complete with cabinetry and power supplies. Requires the Microlog Disk 
Controller ($395). 



Special Offers 

With Baby Blue, you can get a variety of dis- 
counts on combinations of items listed above; 
including business software (data-base manage- 
ment, electronic spread sheet and word process- 
ing). Please inquire. Call us at 914-357-8086. 
Microlog, Inc., 222 Rt. 59, Suffern, NY 10901. 



Ordering Information: For fastest delivery send certified 
check, money order or bank wire-transfer. Credit cards 
accepted include MasterCard or Visa. All items shipped UPS 
unless otherwise specified; add $5 for shipping. (NY State 
Residents, add 4.5% sales tax.) 

® CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 
™ Baby Blue and Baby Talk are trademarks of Microlog. Inc. 
™ Z-80 is a trademark of Zilog. Inc. 



Listing 1: (la) Prototype of and (lb) example of the pure assembly -language bench- 
marks used to test the Intel 8086 and 8088 microprocessors. See table 2 for the bench- 
mark results. The listings roughly follow the syntax of the Digital Research DDT86 
miniassembler. 



(la) 



(lb) 





MOV 


SI ,5 30 




MOV 


SI, (30 


LPl 


MOV 


DI.SFFFF 


LPl 


MOV 


DI .SFFFF 


LP2 


(code 1 


o be tested 


LPZ 


ICHC 


81, AI 




placed 


here) 




XCHC 
XCKC 
XCHC 


EX, AX 
EX, AX 
BX.AX 




DEC 


DI 




DEC 


DI 




JNZ 


LP2 




JNZ 


LP2 




DEC 


SI 




DEC 


SI 




JNZ 


LPl 




JNZ 


LPl 




( breekp 


oint set here) 


(break 


point set 


here) 



different for MUL (multiply memory 
and accumulator). Both 8- and 16-bit 
arithmetic operations on the 8086 
sometimes take the same time, some- 
times not. For example, "ADD 
[30], An" (add either the lower 8 bits 
of the accumulator, AL, or the entire 
16 bits of the accumulator, AX, to 
memory location 30) takes the same 
time for both versions, while "ADD 
An,#l" (add the value 1 to either AL 



or AX) is about one-third faster in its 
8-bit version (see table 2). 

Factors That Slow Execution 

The relationships between the exe- 
cution times of the two chips are 
caused by three factors: the inherent 
design of the instruction set, the 
different-sized data paths of the 
chips, and the mechanics of the pre- 
fetch queue. The 8086 instruction set 



itself (which is identical to the 8088 
set) dictates the identical behavior of 
some of its instructions and not 
others. The 8088 behavior mimics 
this when the 16-bit operation is in- 
ternal to the chip itself (the register- 
to-register XCHG in figure 1), but not 
when it deals with external memory 
and must go through the 8-bit data 
bus. 

The address bus on both chips and 
the data bus on the 8086 are all 16 bits 
wide. The data bus on the 8088, how- 
ever, is 8 bits wide. Although the 
details are somewhat complicated 
(both microprocessors use the same 
pins for both address and data infor- 
mation and so must use external latch 
chips to separate the address and data 
information), the result is that the 
8086 retrieves or transmits a 16-bit 
word in one bus cycle, while the 8088 
does so in two (8 bits at a time). Con- 
sequently, any operation that 
manipulates external memory will be 
slowed by the 8088's 8-bit data bus. 
The extent of the slowdown is deter- 
mined by the prefetch queue. 



INTERSTELLAR DRIVE 

_X^K ♦ ^ A SOLID STATE DISK EMULATOR 



Save valuable time! 

5 to 50 times faster 

performance than floppy disks 

and Winchester drives 

PION'S INTERSTELLAR DRIVE is designed for use with a 
family of interfaces and software packages. Currently avail- 
able are interfaces for IBM, S100, TRS80, Apple, SS50, and 
most Z80 uP, and software for most popular operating systems. 
Additional interfaces are continually being developed for the 
most popular computers. 

BaSfC Price for 256KB Unit [Includes Interface and software] 

$ 1 095 ^ us tax ^ wnere applicable) and shipping 





SAVE MONEY! 
Increase your 
computer's productivity 

The INTERSTELLAR DRIVE is a high performance 
data storage subsystem with independent power 
supply, battery backup, and error detection. It has 
256KB to 1 Megabyte of solid state memory integrated 
to perform with your operating system. 



Visa and Master Card accepted. 



PIOIMflNC. Tel. (6 17)923-8009 

1 1 R Walnut St., Watertown, MA 02 1 72 

TRS80 trademark of Tandy Corp. Apple trademark of Apple Computers 
Interstellar Drive trademark of PION, Inc. 



156 July 19*3 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 319 on Inquiry card. 



We said we wouldn't say "We Have It" until we have it. 

We Have It! 

LMC Announces MegaMicro Systems 
32-Bit Virtual Memory Microcomputers 

LMC's MegaMicros are among the most 
powerful and expandable microcomputers ever offered. They 
provide mainframe or super-minicomputer performance at 
prices competitive with today's far less powerful 8- and 16-bit 
microcomputers. And, they are available for delivery now! 

LMC Mega series computers incorporate: the 
NS16032 central processing unit which has true 32 -bit inter- 
nal logic and internal data path configured on the multibus 
(IEEE 796) 16-bit interface (making hundreds of peripheral 
boards and products available); demand-paged virtual mem- 
ory implemented in hardware; and hardware 64-bit double- 
precision floating point arithmetic. These features give the 
Mega series remarkable performance. 

In addition, the NS16032 instruction set archi- 
tecture is symmetrical making the processor ideally suited to 
high-level languages such as FORTRAN, C, and PASCAL and 
to structured modular programming. Consequently, LMC's 
MegaMicros make efficient use of large operating systems 
and application software. LMC is pleased to offer HCR's 
UNITY* version of UNIX* with our MegaMicros. UNITY, an 
extremely powerful operating system that has been field- 
proven and used successfully on minicomputers and main- 
frames, is a full UNIX implementation and includes Berkeley 
4.1 enhancements to take advantage of demand-paged vir- 
tual memory. Also included with UNITY are C and FORTRAN 
77; PASCAL, PL/I, ADA and other high-level languages will 
be available soon as options. 

Full technical specifications and prices of 
LMC's MegaMicros are available on request. 

•UNITY is a Trademark of Human Computing Researchers Corp., UNIX is a Trademark of Bell Laboratories 

LMC MegaMicros The Logical Alternative 1 



uvc 



->TM 



The Logical Microcomputer Company 
™ 140 South Dearborn, Chicago. IL 60603 USA (312) 580.0250 Telex: 270384 Cable: Lexecomp 

Circle 238 on inquiry card. BYTE July 1983 157 



Listing 2: Benchmark programs associated with table 2. Listing 2a is an unoptimized 
bubble sort. Listing 2b is a graphics-scaling routine that does scaling operations on 
16-bit pairs of data. Listing 2c does 30,000 floating-point addition operations in BASIC. 
Listing 2d calculates 5000 square roots and does 5000 multiplication operations in 
BASIC. The assembly-language listings roughly follow the syntax of the Digital 
Research DDT86 miniassembler. 

(2a) 

Bubble sort 

Register BL used is flag, FF heiadecimal itint elements switched, 

00 means no switch 
Register SI points to beginning of list to be sorted 

i flag set to eichange elements 
; were any elements eichanged? 

; if so , done 
, set flag to "no switch" 

; number of elements in list 

. set SI to 0--i.e., data is at beginning 
; of data segment 
i compare two adjacent element! 

i jump past code for eichanging el ements 
; eichange two elements 

; set flag to "el ements swi tched" 

increment pointer by one word 

; pass through table again if CI not sero 

; beg in again 
; sort f inished 

(2b) 

, Graphics scaling routine 

Register BX is a counter for an esternal loop that performs this 

routine 44 times (40 heiadecimal) 
Register CX contains the number of i , % pairs to be processed 
Register OS * 300 heiadecimal ■ pointer to data input area 
Register ES ■ 900 heiadecimal » pointer to data output area 

17FD (heiadecimal) i , f data pairs starting at location 8 are 

translated to | ' , y ' pairs by the formulas: 

i'.(21HHi-15> and T '«(}1/JMHI 

The data pairs are all filled to the value (2AAA.2AAA) heiadecimal 
The constants IS, 8, 4, and 21 are in locations 0, 2, 4, and 4, 
r espec lively 



MOV 


BL.ISFF 


CMP 


BL, SFF 


JNZ 


A4 


XOF. 


SL , BL 


MOV 


CI, 15800 


DEC 


CI 


XOR 


SI 


MOV 


ai.csij 


CMP 


AI,2[S1I 


JLE 


A3 


XCHG 


AX, HSU 


MOV 


[SIJ.AI 


MOV 


BL.tlFF 


INC 


SI 


INC 


SI 


LOOP 


A2 


JMP 


At 


NOP 





MOV 

MOV 
MOV 
MOV 

CLD 



BI,»«40 

CX , ti I 7FD 
SI, IB 
SI ,DI 



SUB 


AX, CO] 


MUL 


WORD Hi 


DIV 


VORD C41 


STOSW 




LOOSV 




SUB 


AX, [21 


MUL 


VORD [61 


DIV 


VORD C4I 


STOSW 




LOOP 


XV 


DEC 


BI 


JNZ 


LP 


END NOP 




(2c) 




10 5IZE-1OD00 




20 VAR1<0 




30 ONE.l 




4 FOR 1=1 TO 


SIZE 


SO VAHl=VAR1t 


3NE 


iO VARI.VARW 


3NE 


70 VAR1=VAR1* 


3NE 


80 NEXT 




90 PRINT VAR1 


, " ADDITIONS DONE 



, set outs i de loop 

, number of data pairs to be translated 
, address of first i , v pair 

, cleared decimal flag affects LODSV instruction 

, this is DDT86 mnemonic for the word-length 

, version of the LODS instruction -- this gets 

; an i_ value from the list 
, subtract IS 

i multiply by 21 

, divide by 4 
; store as output i value 

, perform similar functions for x value 



loop until CX becomes sero 
i citernal loop 
; end of benchmark -- breakpoint inserted here 



(2d) 



10 DIM SORTI5000) ,NUMSOD( 5000 ) 

20 SIZE. 5000 

30 FOR LI TO SIZE 

40 SQRT1 I )=SOR( I) 

SO NUMSQD<I>*SQRT(1>«SQRT<1> 

60 NEXT I 

70 PRINT SIZE;" ITERATIONS DONE" 



The Prefetch Queue 

To understand the prefetch queue 
and its role in influencing the perfor- 
mance of the 8086 and the 8088, first 
look at the internal architecture of the 
two microprocessors. The 8086 and 
the 8088 each contain two internal 
processors, the execution unit (EU) 
and the bus interface unit (BIU). The 
EU executes instructions and depends 
on the BIU to retrieve and store data 
and instructions. To surpass the per- 
formance of earlier microprocessors 
that alternated between fetching and 
executing instructions, Intel decided 
to include in the 8086 and 8088 a 
prefetch queue that would fetch 
several instructions beyond the one 
currently being executed; except for 
cases in which the current instruction 
is a jump or branch execution, these 
fetched instructions are available for 
execution much faster than if they 
had to be brought in from memory. 
The 8086 has a prefetch queue 6 bytes 
long, while the 8088's is 4 bytes long; 
in both cases, the bus interface unit is 
responsible for keeping the queue 
filled. 

(Dan Lenehan, an applications 
engineer for the microcomputer 
group at Intel, says the design team 
determined the optimal size for each 
microprocessor's prefetch queue by 
simulating it on a computer. Both the 
execution unit and the bus interface 
unit need access to the system bus, 
but only one can have it at a time. A 
long prefetch queue needs to be filled 
more often by the BIU; even though 
the EU always has priority over the 
BIU, it must wait for the BIU to re- 
lease the system bus if its request 
comes while the BIU is using the bus. 
Therefore, at a certain length, a long 
prefetch queue will slow the EU down 
more than it will help. A short pre- 
fetch queue is full more of the time, 
decreasing the chance that the EU will 
be slowed by a BIU bus access; how- 
ever, at a certain length, a short pre- 
fetch queue has less "slack" and so 
saves the EU less time. By simulating 
each microprocessor's slightly dif- 
ferent architecture and the kinds of 
programs each was expected to run, 
the Intel designers found a 4-byte 
queue optimal for the 8088 and a 
6-byte queue optimal for the 8086.) 



158 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



TEK 2200 



MULTI-PURPOSE 
OSCILLOSCOPES 



THE PERFORMANCE/ 
PRICE STANDARD 



Now. Tektronix 60 MHz Performance 
is just a free phone call away! 




These easy to order scopes are 
proof that it's not expensive to 
have advanced, 60 MHz perform- 
ance from Tektronix on your 
bench. It's just practical! Feature 
for feature, the Tek 2213 and 2215 
set a price/performance standard 
unmatched among portable scopes. 
And are backed by the industry's 
first three-year warranty on all labor 
and parts, including the CRT. 

So advanced they cost you 
less: $1200* for the 2213! $1450* 
for the dual time base 2215! 

These low costs are the result of a 
new design concept that utilizes 



fewer mechanical parts than any 
other scope. 

Yet there's no scrimping on per- 
formance and reliability. You have 
the bandwidth for digital and analog 
circuits. The sensitivity for low signal 
measurements. The sweep speeds 
for fast logic families. And delayed 
sweep for fast, accurate timing 
measurements. 

Scope. Probes. Three-year 
warranty and expert advice. One 
free call gets it all! You can order, 
or obtain literature, through the 
Tektronix National Marketing Center. 
Technical personnel, expert in oscil- 



loscope applications, will answer 
your questions and can expedite 
delivery. Direct orders include 
probes, operating manuals, 15-day 
return policy, full Tektronix warranty 
and worldwide service back-up. 



Order toll free: 
1-800-426-2200 
Extension 18 

In Oregon call collect: 
(503) 627-9000 Ext. 18 

Circle 403 on inquiry card. 



'Price FO.B. Beaverton, OR. Price subject to change 



Tektronix 

COMMITTED TO EXCELLENCE 



Copyright ©1983. Tektronix, Inc. All rights reserved. TTA-371 



BYTE July 1983 159 





CERTIFIED ERROR FREE 



SENTINEL 
illlllllDISKETTES 



Guaranteed 

when properly 

used to 

Read, Write 

Error-Free as long . 

as you 

own them. 



QUALITY 

YOU MAY NEVER NEED. 

But it costs no more ! 



The expert technicians who 
produce and monitor the 
quality of our diskettes have 
developed new state-of-the-art 
technology using equipment 
we design and build ourselves, 
unlike any other diskette 
maker. That's why our burn- 
ishing method uses a unique, 
dual-sided technique which 
provides an advanced degree 
of surface smoothness, the 




key to consistent high quality ^F~M^ IMFI 



performance. In addition, a 
superior, high quality lubricant 
assuring extra long life and a 
quality control program which 
includes certifying every 
Sentinel Diskette are reasons 
we can offer you the industry's 
most exacting guarantee. 
For unsurpassed information 
security, choose Sentinel 
brand, and ask your dealer 
about the new 2-PACK in a 
resealable storage case. 



The Professional's Diskette — Ideal for Personal Use. 

Sentinel Computer Products, Division of Packaging Industries Group, Inc. 
Hyannis, MA 02601 Tel: 617-775-5220 



The prefetch queue influences 8086 
and 8088 instruction times in two 
ways. First, longer instructions exe- 
cute slightly slower on the 8088 
because, on occasion, bytes must be 
fetched directly from memory 8 bits 
at a time (as opposed to 16 bits in the 
8086). This behavior is indicated by 
the speed of the short JMP (a 2-byte 
instruction) relative to the near JMP 
(3 bytes). (See figure 2.) Second, in- 
structions that do more internal pro- 
cessing and leave the system bus free 
longer allow the BIU more time to fill 
the prefetch queue uncontested, in- 
creasing the speed with which the EU 
can execute instructions. This ex- 
plains why the 8088 shows almost no 
speed degradation for the MUL (mul- 
tiply) instruction, which spends a lot 
of time doing the operation internal- 
ly; some degradation for the ADD in- 
struction, which spends less time in 
computation; and the most degrada- 
tion for the MOV (move-register-to- 
memory) instruction. 

(Note: the results in table 2 and 
figure 1 result from an interaction of 
all the factors mentioned above, an 
interaction that varies in proportion 
from instruction to instruction. For 
example, the surprising performance 
of the MUL instruction is probably 
largely due to the interaction of the 
EU and the prefetch queue, while that 
of the MOV instruction is probably 
due to the 8088's 8-bit data path.) 

Finally, the BASIC benchmarks 
(January 1982, p. 54) indicate that 
MBASIC-86 version 5.21 (the version 
we used) will run about 40 percent 
more slowly on an 8088 when com- 
pared with an 8086. For various 
reasons, the performance of other 
BASIC interpreters might vary sig- 
nificantly from this, so we should not 
infer too much about the BASIC lan- 
guage from just one benchmark. 
However, because Microsoft supplies 
the PC-BASIC that runs on the IBM 
Personal Computer and its look-alike 
machines, it is reasonable to infer that 
the IBM PC would run BASIC about 
40 percent faster if IBM had designed 
it using an 8086. 

Conclusions 

After weighing the results of these 
BYTE benchmarks, should you re- 

< Circle 366 on inquiry card. 



"Hflrat 
more can 
I do?" 





Your computer can 
probably do more for 
you than you originally 
thought. And learning 
to expand its capabilities 
is as easy as reading a 
good book. 

SYBEX is the pioneer 
of computer book pub- 
lishing, offering over 60 
titles developed for 
beginners through ad- 
vanced. They are so well written and easy to 
understand that virtually anyone can learn 
to operate a computer in a matter of hours. 
Doing Business with 
Pascal by Douglas 
Hergert and Richard 
Hergert ($17.95] The 
first of its kind, this 
book uses examples 
and explains how to: 
design business sys- 
tems in Pascal, write 
practical business pro- 




grams and use powerful Pascal language. 
Your First BASIC Program by Rodnay Zaks 

($9.95) Write your first BASIC program in 
one hour! At last, a "how-to-program" book 
for the first-time computer user aged 8 to 88. 
Colorful illustrations and simple diagrams 
make this book both easy and entertaining. 
Mastering CP/M" by Alan R. Miller ($16 95) 
Now you can use CP/M* to do more than 
just copy files. With this book you will learn 
how to incorporate additional peripherals 
with your system, use console I/O, use the 
file control block and much more. Also 
included is a library of useful macros. 
The Apple" Connection by James W. 
Coffron ($12.95) Now 
you can learn the 
simple techniques for 
putting your com- 
puter to work control- 
ling external non- 
computer devices in 
your home or office. 
Design a computer- 
controlled burglar 




^VBE 




alarm system and control 
lights, electricity, and other 
non-computer devices in your 
home or office. And all are 
explained in simple, non- 
technical terms. 

SYBEX books are available 
at bookstores and computer 
stores everywhere. For a free 
catalog, mail the coupon or call 
TOLL-FREE 800/227-2346. 
Prices subject to change without notice. 

Send me: □ A free catalog 

D 0-091 Doing Business with Pascal $17,95 

□ 0-092 Your First BASIC Program $9 95 

□ 0-068 Mastering CP/M* $16.95 
O 0-085 The Apple" Connection $12.95 
Add: D $2.00/Book UPS D6y 2 % Sales Tax CA Res. 

D $1 2.00/Book Overseas Mail 
Charge my: 
D VISA □ MasterCard □ American Express 

Card # Exp. Date 

Total Amount Enclosed $ 

Signature 

Name 

Add ress , 

City/State/Zip 

Mail to: SYBEX Inc., 2344 Sixth St., Berkeley, CA 94710 
«8 1983 SYBEX. Inc .17-1 A 



SYBEXCOMPUTER BOOKS 



Circle 392 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 161 



Chronos Models 500 and 600 (use 
80186): Chronos International, 13256 
Northrup Way, Suite 7, Bellevue, WA 
98005, (206)641-7277 

CPU-286(S-100 card using 80286, for 
Compupro 816 system): Compupro, Box 
2355, Oakland Airport, CA 94614 

Eagle 1600 (uses 8086): Eagle Com- 
puter Inc., 938 University Ave., Los Gatos, 
CA 95030, (408) 395-5005 

Gazelle (uses 8086): Seattle Computer 
Products Inc., 1114 Industry Dr., Seattle, 
WA 98188, (800)426-8936 

M-20 (uses Zilog Z8001, 8086 co- 
processor available): Docutel/Olivetti Inc., 
155 White Plains Rd., Tarrytown, NY 
10591,(914)631-8100 

MAD-1 (uses 80186): Mad Computer 
Inc., 3350 Scott Blvd., Bldg. 13, Santa 
Clara, CA 95051, (408) 980-0840 

Series 1600 (uses 8086): Datamac 
Computer Systems, 680 Almanor Ave., 
Sunnyvale, CA 94086, (408) 735-0323 

Wang Professional Computer (uses 
8086): Wang Laboratories Inc., One In- 
dustrial Ave., Lowell, MA 01851, (617) 
459-5000 

Table 3: A list of selected vendors of 
computers that use the Intel 8086, 
80186, or 80286 microprocessors. 



think your inclination to buy an 
8088-based computer? Possibly, but 
not necessarily. If the choice is be- 
tween the 8086 and the 8088, the two 
are identical except for the speed dif- 
ference. And execution speed, though 
a seductive factor, is not the only 
criterion that should influence your 
selection of a microcomputer. You 
should also consider price differences, 
ease of use, software and hardware 
compatibility (especially with the 
IBM PC and its associated operating 
systems — Microsoft's MS-DOS, Digi- 
tal Research's CP/M-86, and Softech 
Microsystems' p-system), features, 
and other factors. Table 3 lists manu- 
facturers who offer 8086-based com- 
puters, all of which claim various 
levels of compatibility with the IBM 
PC. Two of those listed use an Intel 
80186, and a third offers an S-100 
board that uses an Intel 80286; both 
are next-generation chips that are up- 
ward compatible with the 8086. 

Bill Skelton of Texas Instruments 
points out that the gestation time of a 
product is usually between 18 and 36 



months. This time frame has two im- 
plications. First, because of the lead 
time and the IBM PC's popularity, 
many computers introduced in the 
next few years (which have been fully 
designed by now) will use the 8088. 
However, look for some brave manu- 
facturers to use the Intel 8068, 80186, 
or 80286 microprocessors, sacrifice 
hardware compatibility with the IBM 
PC, but maintain software compat- 
ibility. Second, look for designers to 
switch to other chips eventually — the 
advanced Intel chips (including a 
32 -bit 80386 that is also upward com- 
patible with the 8086) or even to other 
microprocessor lines, e.g., Motorola's 
MC68000, Zilog's Z8000, or National 
Semiconductor's NS 16032. ■ 

About the Author 

Gregg Williams is senior technical editor of 
BYTE. 

Acknowledgments 

We thank Compupro (Box 2355, Oakland 
Airport, CA 94614) and Lomas Data Products 
(66 Hopkinton Rd., Westborough, MA 01581) 
for their help on this article. 



12 MONITOR 




Green Screen 

FULL 

FACTORY 

WARRANTY 



89 



95 



for APPLE 

16K RAM CARD 

Language Transparent 
00 



COEX FACTORY < 
WARRANTY ' 



59 



5V4"Floppy 

DISKETTES 

All Certified-1 00% Guaranteed 

BOX of 100...*149°° 

Above with 

Hub Rings $169.00 



FLOPPY DISK DRIVE 



From Fourth Dimension Systems 

with • Track Zero Micro Switch 

• DOS 3.2.1 & DOS 3.3 

• CP/M and PASCAL 

DESIGNED 

FOR YOUR $OAQ00 

Controller Card 

for above $99.00 



COEX 80-FT d p°rTn m t1 t r r,x 



e Interface with Apple,™ Centronics 

RS-232, IEEE-488 
e 9x7 Dot Matrix, 80 CPS, 

Bi-Directional Printing 
e2K Buffered Memory 
e80, 96, 132 Columns, Graph 

and Block Printing 
e Selectable Char Pitch, Line 

Spacing and Feed 
COEXInterfaceCardtoAPPLE *49 




TICS 



PARALLEL 

*285 00 



oo 



VISION-80® 

80x24 Video Display Card 

Vista Computer Company's new Vision-80 board is a sophisticated 
yet easy to use video display card for the Apple" computer. 



$ 249 



PARALLEL INTERFACE 



EPSON TO APPLE 

NewFrom $yiQ 95 CABLE 
COEX '43" INCLUDED 



PROTOTYPING CARDS 

forAPFLE.... $19.95 
forl.B.M $49.95 



EXTENDER CARDS 

for APPLE... $16.95 
forl.B.M $19.95 



"Have You Kissed Your Computer Lately" 

Components Express, Inc. 

1380 E. Edinger • Santa Ana, Calif. 92705 • 714/558-3972 

Terms of Sale: Cash, Checks, Credit Cards, M.O.. C.O.D. Calif, residents add 6% sales tax. 




162 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 85 on inquiry card. 






The MultiMode Printer with 
The Magnificent Fonts 




QBQBBBQA 



Qantex 7030 




MultiMode Printer 
Offers Flexibility 



The"Beautiful"Font 




... At a Sensible Price 

"Flexibility" means instantaneous call up of any of this trend- 
setting machine's many features whether for word processing, 
data processing, graphics or forms generation. Using either of the 
two built in interfaces, an external keyboard or downloading 
from your computer, you can program the Qantex Model 7030 to 
do more. 

Compare the "Beauty" of our printed letters for the word process- 
ing fonts which include Cubic, Trend, Spokesman, Courier, Italics, 
Script, OCR-A, APL, Scientific plus downloaded fonts from your 
computer. Draft copy modes include 8 resident fonts — U.S., 
U.K., German, French, Spanish, Swedish, Finnish, Norwegian and 
Danish. 

Other features include high resolution graphics — 144 x 144, 
single pass and double pass word processing, and 180 cps data 
processing modes and user defined formats. 

Operator initiated, the MultiMode printer provides a complete 
printed status report of operating parameters and diagnostics. 

For more information, or a demo, call us about the new Qantex 
Model 7030 MultiMode Printer. 

% north ntlnntic 

Qantex 

60 Plant Avenue, Hauppauge, NY 11788 

(516) 582-6060 (800) 645-5292 Circle 340 on inquiry card. 



Do you Jiave the 
the entire S400 



We do. 

And now you can too: The most powerful 
multi-processing CPU board you can buy. The 
world's first 256K static RAM memory board. 
And the most sophisticated hard disk controller 
board available. 

Run 8-bit CP/M 80* and 16-bit CP/M 86* 
simultaneously in a single or multi-user 
environment. $895. 

Now you can upgrade to 16-bit without for- 
saking your investment in 8-bit software. Octagon's 
plug-and-play CPU Board 8/16™ is a complete 
computer-on-a-board with all this: 

• Dual processors: 4MHz NSC-800 (executes full 
Z80* instruction set) and 8MHz 8088. 

• Intel 8272 floppy disk controller with 24-bit DMA. 
Runs up to four 5 1 /4" or 8" floppies in any combi- 
nation at the same time. 

• 8K PROM monitor. Boots operating system and 
also contains all the disk interface software you 
need for almost any operating system. Plus many 
useful debugging features, such as memory test, 
memory dump and memory search. 

• Two serial ports (baud rate software selectable 
up to 19.2 Kbauds.) 

• Interrupt controller with eight vectored 
interrupts. 



• Fixed frequency real-time clock interrupt for 
multi-user dispatching. 

• IEEE-696 S-100 compatible. 

Add the optional 8087 math co-processor 
for just $300. 

And save $155 when you buy the 
operating system from Octagon, whether you 
take Concurrent CP/M 86 at $195, CP/M 86 at 
$150 or MP/M 86* at $495. 

CPU Board 8/16 is completely ready to run 
with no additional software. And both operating 
systems automatically include your CP/M 80 
emulator, so you can run any 8-bit CP/M pro- 
gram—as well as auto-select bios that let you 
transfer files back and forth between 5Va" and 
8" floppies. 

World's first 256K Static RAM Memory 
Board. $1850 
Memory may be configured as either four 
totally independent 64K software-selectable 
blocks or as a single 256K block which responds 
to IEEE-696 extended addressing lines. Will ac- 
cept either 8-bit or 16-bit bus requests. 

And each 64K block can be one of 256 
addresses— so theoretically you could address 





; ; ■. jl ' 


: i 


I 


l •" , ■ 1 


8. :: 



if ii !i 11 1 if fill I ill! lllli I til i llllillllillllil t 111 

CPU Board 8/16 



iiilltii iiiillU 
I i i i i ii hi 1 1 mi ill ii i i 1 1 1 ii 

256K Static RAM 



guts to ta 



micro industry? 




up to 16MB of these boards in your system. 

A partially populated 128K board with the 
same characteristics is just $1095. 

Sophisticated, reliable Hard Disk 
Controller. $550. 

Designed around LSI technology for greater 
reliability. With its sophisticated Western Digital 




1010 hard disk controller chip to control up to four 
5V4" drives, this unique board gives you auto- 
matic seek, automatic retries after error; comes 
with both CP/M 80 and CP/M 86 bios; and 
includes two serial ports and one Centronics- 
compatible parallel port. 

Using the WD 1014, it detects and corrects 
single-bit errors and detects double-bit errors. 



ECC generation and correction on data fields is 
user selectable. 

And its phase lock loop lets you forget about 
critical timing adjustments. In fact, you never need 
to adjust it at all. There's no pot. 

Octagon's Hard Disk Controller Board also 
gives you data rates up to 5MBits/sec, and CRC 
generation and verification on ID fields. Complete 
subsystem including board and 19.2 MB hard 
disk packaged with power supply: $2195. 

1-408-262-7777 

Call us now for more details. And take advan- 
tage of these introductory offers: Buy CPU Board 
8/16 plus the Memory Board and get Concurrent 
CP/M 86 or CP/M 86 free. (Includes CP/M 80 em- 
ulator.) Or buy all three boards and get MP/Mp/us 
new Personal BASIC from Digital Research free. 

You'll never need any other S-100 boards. It 
takes guts to say that, but try us out and you'll 
know: Octagon has what it takes. 

^^""V Circle 300 on Inquiry card. 

Kioctagon 

2960 North First St. , San Jose, CA 951 34 408-262- 7777 

•CP/M 80, CP/M 86. MP/M 86 and Pe 



I il i i i i i Vi 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 



im 



i C:: Wm t:; ;C 



y y 



111 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ti 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 it f i 

Hard Disk Controller 



Visi On's Interface Design 



Visi On belongs to a new breed of 
office automation software that 
makes it possible for diverse applica- 
tion programs to interact. Instead of 
switching from one application pro- 
gram to the next, users can run 
several programs simultaneously and 
transfer data directly between them. 
Initially, Visi On's open-ended 
system will accommodate spread- 
sheet, word processing, plotting, data 
manipulation, and communications 
software. Because it makes use of 
windows to implement the "desktop 
metaphor," Visi On appeals to a wide 
variety of business users. (See "A 
Guided Tour of Visi On," June BYTE, 
page 256, for a more detailed descrip- 
tion.^ 

As system architects of Visi On, the 
major challenge we faced was to de- 
sign a user interface that integrates 
varied applications and hides their 
differences while maintaining their 
power and potential to work to- 
gether. After discussing the phil- 
osophy behind Visi On's design, we'll 
take a look at the factors that shaped 
it and how our design team met its 
challenge. 

Project Goals 

Visicorp's Visi On project is an ef- 
fort to produce an efficient and busi- 
nesslike office-automation product 
using the most appropriate software 



by Dr. George Woodmansee 

and hardware technology. The first 
release, scheduled for late summer, is 
for machines in the same class as the 
IBM Personal Computer — those with 
bit-mapped displays, a Winchester 
hard disk, and at least 256K bytes of 
memory. 

Our primary goal was to produce a 
nonintrusive problem-solving sup- 
port system for the office profes- 
sional: a workbench and tools that do 
the job without getting in the way. 
We wanted to design a system that in- 
tegrates application packages by 
making data interchange simple and 
provides the appearance of concur- 
rent application execution. We 
wanted it to be easy for a novice, 
casual user, or experienced user to 
learn. Finally, we wanted the system 
to be able to accommodate new and 
unanticipated applications. 

Design Factors 

Two major factors shaped Visi 
On's design: the needs of the end user 
we had in mind and relevant avail- 
able technology. 

The market for Visi On is primarily 
office professionals, a varied group 
that includes middle and upper man- 
agers in large businesses, small 
businessmen, staff analysts, and plan- 
ners. Time, pressure, and the need for 
quality results are critical to this 
group. 



To be productive, efficient, and 
successful at their work, office profes- 
sionals look for an office-automation 
product that fills three major needs. 
First, the product must help solve 
problems quickly without getting in 
the way. Second, it must enable users 
to gain expertise easily and make 
allowances for different levels of 
facility. Office professionals are 
casual users who may be experts in 
some parts of the system and novices 
in others. They are neither computer- 
philes nor touch-typists. Finally, the 
product must support different styles 
of problem solving. People vary 
widely in the way they solve prob- 
lems; some may carefully plan and 
execute an attack, while others will 
indulge in a series of skirmishes until 
the problem is solved. 

After identifying our target au- 
dience, we considered three com- 
munication concepts: representation, 
direction, and presentation. 

Representation 

A well-chosen and consistently ap- 
plied metaphor is a key to successful 
interface design. By mirroring the 
behavior of systems that are already 
familiar to the user, a valid metaphor 
enables the user to correctly an- 
ticipate the operation of the system. 
Because the Visi On system must sup- 
port concurrent operation of applica- 



166 July 1983 © BYTE Publication. Inc 



Its graphic system makes brilliant 
color more affordable. 



— — — — 






□ 







1 










, fiy~ 


yftf 


m 








Now everyone can have the advantage of a full-color 
graphics system at a very affordable price. 

The Canon AS-100 microcomputer gives you a choice of 27 
high resolution colors. Plus, its quiet color ink jet printer 
generates clean, crisp, impressive copies. 

And it isn't just the AS-100's vivid color that dazzles. 

It has a powerful, fast 16 bit microprocessor with standard 
128K RAM. 

A choice of storage capacity that includes 5V4 mini or 8 inch 
floppy disks, with hard disk drive also available. 

A software system that uses either CP/M-86* or MS-DOS + , 
and if you prefer, a monochrome green or black and white 
display unit. 

All of which make it the perfect tool for business and 
professional needs. 

The new Canon AS-100. It's so smart, it makes life simple. 

•CP/M-86 is a trademark of Digital Research. 'MS-DOS is a trademark of MICRO SOFT. © 1983 Canon U.S.A.. Inc. 



I7/83~I 



Canon U.S.A., Inc. 

Systems Division 

One Canon Plaza, Lake Success. NY 11042 

Please send me more information about the Canon 
AS-100 Microcomputer. 



Name- 
Title— 



(Please print) 



Company- 
Address — 



City 

Phone ( 



(State) 



(Zip) 



Canon 

So smart, it makes life simple. 



Circle 65 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 167 



Circle 411 on Inquiry card. 




GET FULL VALUE 

FROM YOUR VICTOR 9000™ 

with the 

UCSD p-SYSTEM™ IV.1 

Get the most from your VICTOR 
9000 as well as from your software 
development efforts. The power 
and portability of the UCSD 
p-System Is available for the 
VICTOR 9000 from TDI. 

The Standard Development 
System Includes: 

• Full Screen Editor, Filer, . 
Assembler and other Utilities ^*^ 

• The UCSD Pascal Compiler^*""^ 
- Native Code Generator < - 

Ram Disk Support Above 
128K 

Turtlegraphics-full use 
of VICTOR screen 
(800 x 400) 

• Complete documentation 

Options: 

i Fortran 77 and Basic compilers 
Hard disk support 

fCvC^ TDI SYSTEMS, INC TDI LIMITED 

MfJJ ©I 620 HUNGERFORD DR. 29 ALMA VALE RD. 

|S| ROCKVILLE, MD 20850 BRISTOL, U.K. BS8 2HL Ol/O 

k^ (301)340-8700 0272 742 796 &UH, 

VICTOR 9000 It a trademark of VICTOR TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

UCSD p-SVSTEM and UCSD PASCAL are trademarks of tha Raganta of tha Unlveralty of California 



NEW 

HARD 

DISK 

SUPPORT 



FEEL LIKE A KID 
IN A CANDY STORE? 

Now rent or buy 
all the software you want 



imam 



I 




341 S. Cedros Avenue 
Solana Beach, CA 92075 

8:30 a.m. -6:00 p.m. PST Monday thru Saturday 



SoftRent"" — an exclusive 
software club since 1981 — has 
gone public. . .offering 
unparalleled benefits. 

Members 

— RENT software at 20% of list 
price. 

— Buy software at 67% of list 
price. 

— LIMITED time offer: 
$75 Lifetime Membership. 

Non-Members 

— RENT software at 25% of list 
price. 

— Buy software at 75% of list 
price. 

Choose from the most popular 
Recreational, Educational and 
Business software available. 
Original manufacturers' software complete 
with manual. Now you can afford all the 
software you want. 
Orders/ Free 619 481-0559 San Diego 

Brochure Call: I 800 221-1031 California 
1 800 221-4568 All Others 



tions that manipulate objects familiar 
to the office scene, the interface 
design is based on the desktop 
metaphor. This representation iden- 
tifies the user's desk with the screen 
and, correspondingly, objects that 
might appear on the desk with objects 
on the screen. 

Direction 

The way in which the user directs 
the system should complement the 
metaphor and the user. Because the 
user is assumed to be casual and not a 
touch-typist, the design emphasizes 
recognition rather than recall. Thus 
menu selection was favored over 
command entry ai.c pointing over 
keystroking. 

Presentation 

For the desktop metaphor to work 
effectively, users must have the feel- 
ing that the electronic objects are real. 
In other words, when objects are 
manipulated, they must behave in a 
manner analogous to the behavior of 
their physical counterparts. Part of 
this mimicry calls for the use of raster 
graphics in order to maintain objects 
lying about the screen. 

The Design 

Having defined our project goals 
and identified the audience and the 
technology available, we developed 
and carefully considered at least four 
contending design models. These in- 
cluded a Smalltalk-like model (object 
oriented, multiwindow), a Star-like 
model incorporating the desktop 
metaphor, an overlapped 4-window 
model, and an overlapped 2-window 
model. Because these models did not 
meet the project goals, they yielded to 
the current design, which is a variant 
of the desktop metaphor. 

The Visi On design is menu driven, 
uses a mouse to select commands and 
some arguments, uses a verb-object 
rather than object-verb syntax 
("delete text" rather than "text 
delete"), and supports a variable 
number of applications communicat- 
ing with the user through individual, 
possibly overlapping windows. Be- 
cause the design focuses on applica- 
tions running in windows, the inter- 
face is application oriented as op- 



168 July 1983 © BYTE Publication! Inc 



Circle 455 on Inquiry card. 



■ 

" m 



UNBELIEVABLE! 



^****m-]jti 



XCOMP sat down to design a 
truly distributed IBM network so 
versatile and complete that it 
would satisfy any user's needs. 
It seems too good to be true, 
but we did it! 

X-NET is so advanced that it can only be imitated. 
It has all the features of standard networks and 
many more. And, because it is not dependent on a 
central file server you save the high cost of that 
hardware. 

Call our sales department today for 
complete details on X-NET. The 
exclusive network of PC-DOS 2.0! 

X-NET 

A Network Superset of PC-DOS 2.0 



Other quality products available from XCOMP. 





CONTROLLERS 

XCOMP manufactures a 
complete line of controllers 
for all popular drives. The 
X/R Series is a controller for 
3 to 300 megabyte drives. 
We also produce a S100 
controller package. A 
microprogrammable data 
board is common to each 
package and operates with 
a second drive interface 
board. Buffer size is 256 
bytes, with disk data rate 
up to 10MHz. 



Circle 451 on Inquiry card. 



HARD DISK 
SUB-SYSTEMS 

10 megabyte and 16 
megabyte hard disk 
sub-systems for the IBM PC, 
Apple II and III and nearly 
all popular personal 
computers. 

XCOMP sub-systems are 2 
to 3 times faster than many 
of the competition's and 
come complete with our 
extensive software. 



PACKAGE 
DEALS 

Exceptional prices on 10 and 
16 megabyte formatted 
drives and controllers. The 
ST/S for S100 computers and 
the ST/R for single board 
computers. An optional Z-80 
adapter allows for simple 
plug-in convenience. 
Optional equipment 
includes software, cables 
and cabinetry. 



THE TOASTER 

THE TOASTER is a hard disk 
sub-system containing TWO 
REMOVABLE 3.9", 5 
megabyte cartridges. THE 
TOASTER provides unlin r ' 
storage and conven ; 
back-up with to* e 

portability.^ * .tfP 
speeda-- o 0*.fcV v 



Apple, Apple ii ana Apple ill are trademarks of Apple 
IBM and IBM PC are trademarks of International Busin 



ess Machines Corporation 



sft 



.*p 



wspgr 



NlV 






T^ 






XCOMP 



1983, XCOMP, Inc. 



(COMP, Inc., 7566 Trade Street, San Diego, CA 92121, (619) 271-8730, Telex 182786 



PURCHASING AGENT 

has made some changes! 

What's new? • New telephone number. • New address closer to our 
Silicon Valley suppliers. • New corporate structure. 

What's the same? We still act as your buying agent, buying micro- 
computers, peripherals and software for you at wholesale prices. We 
still can buy 6.600 different products for you— all eguipment is new, 
with full manufacturer's warranty. 



Call us for your net price on any product not listed. 



COMPUTERS 

Alpha Micro 1 000 VFF $5,060 
Alpha Micro 1 0O0VWF 6,957 
Alpha Micro 1042V, 

128K,32meg. 15,433 

Altos 8000-10 5,499 

Altos 8000- 12 6.599 

Altos 580-10 4.779 

Altos 5-15D. MP/M 2,100 

Altos 5-5D, MP/M 3.999 

Compupro GodboutrM 

Sys. 816/A' 4,200 

Sys. 816/A. Ram21 - 4,275 

Sys. 816/C. Ram21 - 6,880 

Sys 816/D" 10,321 

Sys. 816/68K 6,632 

■completely assembled 

M-Drive-H 1.250 

68K 513 

CPU-Z6Mhz. 258 

Ram21. 128K. 12Mhz 807 

Disk 2. hard disk contr 586 

Pragmatic 20 meg 2,990 

Pragmatic 40 meg. 4,686 

Eagle II 1.575 

Eagle 1620 2,999 

Eagle 1630 4,699 

Eagle PC. 2.699 

IBM compatibles & peripherals 

Amdek Color III monitor 429 

ASTMC-064SPC 277 

Boby Blue 525 



Your Net COMPUTERS 

Price 



Your Net PRINTERS 

Price 



Your Ne 
Price 



IBM compatibles & peripherals 

Corona portable 2.255 

Columbia system 2,779 

Davong5megHD 1.249 

Diablo 630 API 1,775 

NEC 3550 1,920 

Seattle CALL 

Morrow MicroD MD-2 1,245 

Morrow MicroD 1 6 meg 1,631 

NEC 16 bit APC HO 2 3,039 

NECAPCWP2IHO-3) 5,775 

Northstar Advantage 2.324 

Northstar Adv w/15 meg 4,649 

Onyx CALL 

Pied Piper I 1,055 

Sage II 3,410 

Sage IV w/15 meg. 5.S90 

Sanyo 1000 w/soffware 1,540 

Seattle Gazelle, h disk 5,970 

Televideo TS-802 2,598 

Televideo TS-803 2,027 

Televideo TS-806 5,143 

Televideo TS-1602G 3,448 

Televideo TS-1602GH 5,385 

Vector 4-20 3,637 

Vector 4 30 4,547 

Vector 4-40 4,961 

Victor 9000 s.s 2,874 

Zenith ZF-1 00-21 2.525 

Zenith ZF-1 10-22 3,099 

Zenith ZF-120-22 3,176 



Anadex9501A. 2 7Kbuf 1,300 
Brother, parallel, daisy 832 
C. Itoh, F-10, daisy 1,200 

Daisywriter 2000 48K dsy, 1,150 
Diablo 620, 25 cps, daisy 890 
Diablo 630, daisy 2.045 

IDS Prism 132 all opts. 1,430 
NEC 3510 1.468 

NEC 7710 2.177 

Okiddtd 92. parallel 510 

Okiddta 93 w/tractor 9 1 3 

Okidata 84, parallel 1 ,024 

Qume 1 1/40 + w/lnt'face 1 ,359 
Tally 160L, w/tractor 789 

Texas Instr TI8 10 basic 1,240 
Texas Instr. TI810LQ 1,789 

w/enhanced pkg. 1.944 

Toshiba P1 350 1,673 

OTHER PERIPHERALS 

Amdek Color II monitor 610 
Amdek Color Ha (ttl) 768 

Corvus 18.3 meg. 3,423 

w/mirror 3.995 

Hayes Smartmodem 1200 535 
Houston Instr. DMP-42 2.321 
Morrow 20 meg w/contr. 3,650 
Qume QVT 1 02 A term. 542 
Qume QVT 1 03G term . 708 
Televideo 925 term . 744 



Add 3% tor Mastercard, Visa. Prices subject to change without notice. 



B-83-7 



The Purchasing Agent Philosophy, Part 1 : 

• Wait six to twelve months after a new product is on the market before 
buying it. Early versions freauently are not fully debugged, have only 
preliminary documentation and do not have all the promised software. 
Later versions are often improved, sometimes even at lower list prices. 




THE 

PURCHASING 
AGENT, INC 

574 Weddell Drive, Ste. 5 
Sunnyvale, CA 94089 

(408) 744-0646 

Open Monday thru Friday, 8-5 PST 



posed to object oriented. Thus the ob- 
jects on the user's desk are applica- 
tions operating on spreadsheets, 
documents, graphics, and the like, 
rather than the spreadsheets, docu- 
ments, or graphs themselves. (The 
underlying system design, however, 
is object oriented.) 

We rejected the Smalltalk and Star- 
like interface models primarily 
because they were object-oriented 
designs that made heavy use of icons. 
While both of these approaches have 
many desirable properties, our need 
to provide an environment that 
would allow fast and easy introduc- 
tion of new applications and the 
relatively limited resolution of the 
targeted class of machines argued 
against their use. Whether the busi- 
ness market will accept icons is also 
unclear. 

Our choice of a verb-object rather 
than object-verb syntax was based on 
the (unsubstantiated) hypothesis that 
users verbalize in this fashion ("fire 
Phil" rather than "Phil fire") and con- 
sequently would tend to find it more 
natural. The marketplace will ulti- 
mately determine which, if either, is 
preferable. 

We rejected the 2- and 4-window 
models, while conceptually simple, 
because they severely restricted the 
number of applications users could 
concurrently manipulate. 

Two Important Design Concepts 

The conceptual framework sup- 
porting the Visi On interface is the 
result of sifting and synthesizing ideas 
from many sources. Two areas in 
particular, application structuring 
and the help network, illustrate the 
thinking behind the interface. 

The Visi On system and applica- 
tions together must help novices and 
expert users alike. How should the 
behavior of individual applications 
be structured to support both groups? 

Application behavior is what users 
experience when they interact with an 
application. Does it act predictably? 
Is the user in control? Is it clear what 
to do next? The correct answers to 
these and similar questions determine 
the effectiveness of the application as 
a tool in the user's hands. The 
behavior of an application mirrors its 



170 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 339 on inquiry card. 



IF YOUR DATA'S WORTH 

REMEMBERING, ITS 

WORTH PROTECTING. 






® 



MICRO UPS 



A split-second blackout or a sudden voltage 
sag can shut down your small business computer, 
completely wiping out critical data. Inventories, 
payrolls, receivables — whatever is in the mem- 
ory may be lost instantly. 

Although this type of data is just as important 
to a small business as it is to a large corporation, 
blackout protection has always been far too 
costly for small business applications. But now 
there is the Powermaker Micro UPS, an inexpen- 
sive standby power source specifically designed 
for small business computers. 

This new rechargeable power system pro- 
vides up to 35 minutes of steady sine-wave 
power, enabling even the most sensitive small 
computers to ride through blackouts and voltage 
sags completely unaffected. 

Why sine-wave power? Because square- 
wave power impairs the performance of many 
printers, viewing screens and timing circuits. 
Powermaker produces a sine wave that exactly 
matches the wave shape of commercial power, 



ensuring compatibility with any computer 
system. 

In addition to providing highly reliable 
blackout and brownout protection, Powermaker 
also protects against electrical noise, one of the 
major causes of computer errors and system mal- 
function. Powermaker is portable, completely 
automatic, maintenance free and plugs into any 
standard 120V outlet. 

No matter how small your computer, your 
data is worth remem- — -■ — — — — — -•■•»■— — 
bering. Protect it 
with an affordable 
Powermaker 
Micro UPS. 

For complete 
information about 
the new Topaz 
Powermaker Micro 
UPS, please fill 
out this coupon or 
call us. 



TOPAZ 

SOLUTIONS TO POWER PROBLEMS" 



Circle 414 on Inquiry card. 



TOPAZ; 91 92 TOPAZ WAY 
SAN DIEGO, CA 92123-1165 
PHONE: (619) 279-0831 
TWX: (910) 335-1526 

□ Please send me complete 
information about Powermaker® 

□ Please have a representative 
call me. 

Name 

Title 



Company. 
Address_ 

City 

Zip 

■ 11 



State . 



Phone . 



BYTE July 1983 171 



Circle 39 on inquiry card. 

Less 
for lour 
Money 

If you do word processing on 
your personal computer, you 
probably know that there are 
many programs for sale to help 
you with your spelling. But the 
biggest spelling error you'll ever 
make is paying too much for your 
spelling correction software. The 
Random House ProofReader 
gives you less for your money — 
less trouble, that is, and fewer 
spelling errors. The Random 
House ProofReader is based on 
the world famous Random House 
Dictionary. It contains up to 
80,000 words, depending on 
your disk capacity. You can add 
new words with the touch of a 
key. It shows you the error and 
the sentence it's in. It instantly 
suggests corrections. It even re- 
checks your corrections. And it 
costs half as much as other 
programs with far less power. The 
Random House ProofReader is 
compatible with all CP/M 2.2®, 
MS-DOS® and IBM Personal 
Computer® systems. 



, the 

mndom 

Random^ f 

House 

ProofReader 



M 



The *= 



*50 



For orders or information, see your 
local dealer or call 505-281-3371. 
Master card and VISA accepted. Or write 
Random House ProofReader, Box 339-B, 
Tijeras, NM 87059. Please enclose $50 
and specify your computer model, 
disk size and memory. 

Random House and the House design are registered 
trademarks of Random House, Inc. CP/M is a regis- 
tered trademark of Digital Research. Inc. IBM and IBM 
Persona] Computer are registered trademarks of 
International Business Machines, Inc. MS-DOS is a 
registered trademark of Microsoft, Inc. 

172 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Figure 1: A general Visi On applications model. 



internal structure, so application 
structure is important in determining 
behavior. 

One goal of systematizing the 
structure of an application is to pro- 
vide similar behavior in similar cir- 
cumstances, to give the user a sense of 
familiarity. All menus, for example, 
look similar and work the same way. 
Another goal is to break the applica- 
tion into comprehensible pieces that 
are closely related to the way a user 
attacks problems (that is where I do 
my editing, this is where I do my 
analysis, this is where I do my plot- 
ting). A third is to provide a frame- 
work in which to state uniform inter- 
face guidelines. 

By designing applications and their 
parts to look and feel alike and by 
breaking them into digestible pieces, 
it takes less effort for a new user to 
learn an application and less time for 
a semi-experienced user to add 
another application to his repertoire. 
Moreover, the casual user obtains 
reinforcement applicable to all ap- 
plications each time he uses any one. 

The Application Model: Parts 

We used the application model il- 
lustrated in figure 1 to provide a con- 
ceptual framework for dealing with 
application behavior. In this model, 
an application consists of contents 
(spreadsheet, graph, document, and 
so on), characteristic views of con- 



tents (one aspect of total screen ap- 
pearance), and functions that the user 
can invoke to change the contents or 
the way they are viewed. A spread- 
sheet application would be modeled 
as follows: the contents would consist 
of one or more spreadsheets, the 
characteristic views would be win- 
dows onto the sheets, and the func- 
tions would include content manipu- 
lators such as Insert Row, Recalcu- 
late, and Enter Formula and view 
manipulators such as Scroll and 
Freeze Border. 

The Application Model: Places 

From the user's point of view, an 
application is a tool that helps solve a 
class of problems by providing a 
specific capability. This capability 
often breaks naturally into several 
subcapabilities that suggest a top- 
level structure for the application. For 
example, a stand-alone application 
like the Visitrend/plot program might 
be described as helping a user to solve 
graphical problems. Generally, solv- 
ing these problems requires that the 
user be able to manage, edit, plot, 
and analyze data. This suggests what 
the application structure should be. 

The application model captures 
subcapabilities by using the concept 
of places. Each place is a group of 
functions with its own characteristic 
display. At present, functions are 
organized into a static hierarchy and 

Circle 21 on Inquiry card. * 



£ 



-- PRESS 



, RET URN' KEY TO BEGIN COPY 



per 3 
disk 



/uviD£ 




^Uv/iO 04 



,«5s^°- 




AFTER YOUR FIRST DRIVE 
GO WITH AMDISK. 



The AMDISK-I Micro-floppy disk system is an 
engineering breakthrough in disk size, storage 
capacity, media protection and user conven- 
ience. It's fully compatible with your Apple II*® 
and Apple lie and is furnished with an in- 
terconnect cable. Enjoy a full 286K storaget 
capability and the extra convenience of the new 
3" hard plastic encased diskette. Packed 10 per 
box, the disk cartridge fits into a shirt pocket and 
is easy to mail. 

Suggested Retail Price .... $299(3" cartridge $6.99 ea.) 



The Amdisk Single Drive system is ruggedly con- 
structed for years of trouble-free operation and is 
backed with our 90 day warranty on parts and 
labor. 

Just circle the reader service number for com- 
plete specifications. 



"Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
t Requires recording on both sides 



2201 Lively Blvd. • Elk Grove Village. IL 60007 
(312)364-1180 TLX. 25-4786 

REGIONAL OFFICES: Calif. (714) 662-3949 

iek . . . your guide to innovative computing! 



CORR 



Texas 817)498-2334 



(TAURUS ONE) + (YOUR PC) = (PROCESS CONTROL SYSTEM) 

Now a new micro computer based data acquisition and 
control front end that gives you:— 



RS232C, RS422, or IEEE 488 port on your 
Personal Computer • Powerful Command 
functions that include: simple reads and 
writes, high speed block analog reads, 
pulse counting, frequency, change of 
state detection, direct thermocouple , 
input, and more • Results in engineer- J 
ing units • Convenient screw termi- 
nal panels • Compatible isolated 
AC/DC 3 amp switchers and * 

isolated input sensing • / 



A full range of input output 
modules provide: 12 bit J 

analog inputs with 4 __ 
programmable 
ranges for inputs 
from ± lOmV to I 
± 10V, digital I/O. 
counters, pulse outputj, 
12 bit analog output, 
4-20 MA input/output, 
thermocouples • Stand 
alone mode with direct 
terminal support • Remote 
operation • Communicates 
simultaneously to 
three computers • 
Internal diagnostics • 




in expansion to 1024 points • User memory 

allows downline load of user written functions 

and programs • EPROM space for special user 

functions • Rack mount hardware available for all options • 

TAURUS ONE 



Write for more information to: 

* TAURUS 
COMPUTER 
PRODUCTS 
INC. 



IN U.S.A.: 

C/O I.M.S. 
P.O. BOX 1663 
BUFFALO. N.Y. 
14203 



IN CANADA: 

P.O. BOX 911 
STATION "U" 
TORONTO. ONT. 
M8Z 5P9 



if properly constructed should satisfy 
these requirements: 

•The user, even the first-time user, 
should intuitively know the kinds of 
things that can be done at a given 
place. If the place supports editing, 
the user should expect something like 
an Insert function and should not be 
surprised to discover a Delete func- 
tion. 

•Equally important, the user should 
intuitively know what cannot be 
done at a place and where the place is 
to do it. 

•Because a place corresponds to a 
major step in the solution of a prob- 
lem, the user should not need to shift 
frequently from place to place. If 
shifting is required, the place is not 
well conceived and should be refor- 
mulated because such shifting dis- 
tracts the user from the problem be- 
ing solved. 

•Places should have associated char- 
acteristic displays so that the user 
always knows his location. 

Places are organized into a small, 
static hierarchy and are named to 
reflect that. This aids the user in 
navigating in search of subproblem 
support not available at the current 
place. 

Movement from place to place is 
always the result of an explicit user 
request. This provides a feeling of 
stability and predictability. 

A place provides a palette of func- 
tions for the user and remains in a 
neutral state until he chooses one or 
moves to another place. While in the 
neutral state, the place exhibits 
neutral -state behavior. Neutral-state 
behavior is generally application and 
place dependent but will usually in- 
volve direct manipulation of the con- 
tents through the characteristic dis- 
play. For example, in a word pro- 
cessor, neutral-state behavior would 
support repositioning the character 
cursor with the mouse and typing in- 
to the document. 

All functions have a predictable 
behavior called the function-action 
cycle (see figure 2). Stereotyping 
function behavior provides a frame- 
work for specifying when and where 
user feedback is supplied. The 
function-action cycle begins when the 
Text continued on page 178 
i Circle 398 on Inquiry card. 



A Complete Graphics 
Department For Just $2295 




Realize day-in and day-out solid performance 
from a quiet and capable desktop plotter. It's 
true. For only $2295* the Houston Instrument 
HIPL0T™DMP-29 will provide you with world- 
class multi-color hard copy graphics, and 
deliver a level of quality and performance that 
you would expect in a plotter costing three 
times as much. 

It's a hard worker. The DMP-29 goes about its 
job with amazing speed and precision. Unbeatable 
resolution and repeatability are yours in both 
8V2" x 11" and 11" x 17" formats, and 8-pen 
capability assures you of fast attention-free 
flexibility when multi-color output is required. 
High pen speed combined with an addressable 
resolution of O.OOl" assures fast, accurate 
and stepless traces. 

It's friendly, You can call 21 different 
functions directly from the front-panel membrane 
keyboard. It's tolerant too. The DMP-29 will 
modestly protect itself from user errors, as 
when attempting to place a pen in an already 
occupied stall. 



And it's smart. An extensive set of firmware 
routines makes life easier for the user. A 
small sampling of the built-in talent inherent 
in the DMP-29 includes character generation, 
circle, arc and ellipse synthesis, line type 
variations, viewport/windowing, clipping and 
scaling. 

For the name, address and phone number of your 
nearest distributor/dealer, write Houston 
Instrument, 8500 Cameron Road, Austin, Texas 
78753. Phone 512-835-0900, or 1-800-531-5205 
if outside Texas. In Europe contact Bausch & 
Lomb Belgium NV., Rochesterlaan 6, 8240 Gistel, 
Belgium. Tel 059-27-74-45. Tlx 846-81399, 




BAUSCH & LOMB 

houston instrument division 



Circle 46 for literature. Circle 47 to have representative call. 



U.S. Domestic price only 
™ Trademark of Houston Instrument 



4P005B 



How to get 



You're not alone, you know. 

We've all been through that same excru- 
ciating moment when we realized that we were 
going to have to learn a lot more than we wanted 
to know about programming, in self-defense. 

But most of us survived. 

Many of us with a little bit of help called 
dBASE II, the relational database management 
system (DBMS) for micros. 

The best defense is a strong offense. 

Don't get seduced by BASIC, because 
basically BASIC is weak. And to make it do 
anything useful can take 10 times as much 
programming (and time) as with dBASE II. 

dBASE II is much easier because it's a 
relational DBMS, and you control your informa- 
tion with powerful, English-like commands. 

With a word or two, you CREATE data- 
bases, APPEND new data, UPDATE, MODIFY 
and REPLACE fields, records and entire data- 
bases. DISPLAY some or all of your data for 
any conditions you want to apply. Organize 
months worth of data in minutes with REPORT. 

You can prepare your forms and formats 
precisely the way you want them. Do calcula- 
tions on fields, records and entire databases 
with 10-place accuracy. 

And do even more with dozens of other 
commands. 

Here's the catch. 

With any language, you'll need to under- 
stand relational operators ("less than'' "greater 
than;' "equals") and a bit of logic ("or}' "and;' "not"). 

With dBASE II, you'll also get an easy 
way to make choices (IF. .THEN.. ELSE) and a 
powerful way to perform repetitive tasks 
(DO WHILE..). 

176 BYTE July 1983 




With these tools, you're ready to tackle 
your accounting and time billing, project man- 
agement, and any other data handling and record 
keeping. You can work interactively and get your 
answers right now. Or save your instructions and 
repeat everything with two words: DO Man- 
hours, DO ProjectX, DO whatever has to be done. 

Use dBASE II to help make your choice. 

If you've got a 48k CP/M micro with a 
disk drive (96k IBM PC), send us $700. We'll 
send you a copy of dBASE II to use free 
for 30 days. 







st micro. 




Instead of just poring over a manual, run 
it and make certain that dBASE II does what you 
need done. 

Then if you find it isn't right for you, 
send it back and we'll return your money, no 
questions asked. 

But we know that you'll probably keep it. 

Because having dBASE II is like having 
a black belt in micros. 

Call (213) 204-5570 today or drop by your 
local computer store for the rest of the story. 

Ashton-Tate, 9929 Jefferson Blvd., Culver 
City, CA 90230. 

Circle 37 on inquiry card. 



Ashton-Tate 



©1982 Ashton-Tate 

CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research 



BYTE July 1983 177 



COMPUTERS 

Kaypro $1659 

Superbrain OD 64K DS DD $2250 

Franklin Ace 1000 $1059 

NEC APC 128K, 

1 drive, monochrome $2489 

Syscom 1 1 48K $679 

Eagle 1 1 64K DS DD w/software $1795 

~ PRINTERS 

Cables made to your order CALL 

Gemini 10 $329 

Gemini15 $535 

Okidala 92 $529 

Diablo 620 $952 

Mannesmann Talley 160L 

1 0" carriage w/tractor $659 

Mannesman Talley 180L 

15" carriage w/tractor $861 

Daiseywriter 

17cps letter quality 48K $1149 

IDS Prism 80 $1015 

Microbuffer 64K stand alone $290 

IDS Prism 132 Sprint, 3 4K Buffer $1179 

IDS Prism 80 $1015 

Microbuffer 64K stand alone $290 

MODEMS ™" 

Hayes 300 baud $219 

Hayes 1200 baud $509 

Novation J Cat $125 

Novation Smart Cat $190 

MONITORS ~~~ 

Princeton Graphics RGB $599 

BMC Green $85 

Amdek Amber $169 

Amdek Green $139 

Amdek Color Composite $319 

Taxan Amber $149 

Taxan Green $143 

Taxan 111 RGB 630H $549 

APPLE PERIPHERALS 

ALS CP/M $299 

ALSZ Card $139 

Taxan III Interface $89 

Davong Hard Disk 5MB $1599 

Apple Dumpling $95 

Grappler Plus $125 

Grappler 16K Buffer Board $125 

Modemcard. internal, 300 baud $245 

Rana Drives $295 

Micro Sci Drives $259 

Shugart Drives $239 

The Filler w/DOS & Copy Utility $20 

PFS Filler $89 

PFS Report $69 

Easywnter $72 

Microbuffer 16K $212 

More than 1000 programs 
to choose from CALL 

IBM PERIPHERALS ~" 

AST I/O (no ram) w/1s,1p,c,g $219 

AST Mega Plus 64K. 1 s, c $359 

Tandon TM100-2 drive $259 

Davong 5M8 Hard Disk 

Internal $1345 

Monte Carlo Card new pricing CALL 

Hercules Board 

w/monochrome & graphics $549 

Perfect Writer CALL 

Perfect Calc CALL 

Perfect Filer CALL 

Lotus 123 CALL 

Multiplan $210 

Flight Simulator $29 

Copy 11 $40 

Smartcom Communications, Hayes $45 

Modem, internal card CALL 

More' 100's of programs available CALL 



Orders Only 1-800-531-3133 

Information: (206) 641-7233 

Bank Cards 

Prices reflect 3% Cash Discount 

Sorry, no CODs. 

PACIFIC COMPUTERS 

13256NorthupWay#7 
Bellevue, WA98005 



♦RELEVANT CURRENT STATUS 



TERMINATION FEEDBACK 

-NEW STATUS OR 
-ERROR MESSAGE 




Ca> 



♦initiation 
feedback 



♦PROMPTS FOR ARGUMENTS 

♦ACTION ACKNOWLEDGMENT FEEDBACK 

OR 
♦ERROR MESSAGE 
♦STATUS 



♦STATUS 
-REMAINING WORK 
-STATE CHANGE 



Figure 2: The function-action cycle. 



user picks a function, providing zero 
or more arguments and an execution 
phase in which the requested function 
is performed. Function-action cycles 
always terminate in the neutral state. 

Applications implement the argu- 
ment-solicitation phase by using a 
small number of canned I/O (in- 
put/output) primitives called BITS 
(basic interaction techniques). This is 
one of the mechanisms employed to 
achieve uniform behavior. BITS sup- 
port such things as multiple choice, 
line editing, and using the mouse to 
select objects. 

The function-action cycle models 
reactive behavior. The application 
idles in the neutral state, waiting for 
the user to decide on a course of ac- 
tion, and then reacts in a predictable 
manner by jogging his memory for 
necessary actions (prompting), in- 
forming him of the continuing state of 
affairs (status), acknowledging his ac- 
tions (sound and selection feedback), 
producing what was expected (status) 
or informing him why the result 
could not be produced, and ideally 
suggesting corrective action (error 
messages). 

Guiding the User 

The system must accommodate 
users who are not quite sure what to 
do next as well as those who have 
reached an impasse. 

Users need help when they don't 
understand some aspect of the system 
or application. They may be confused 
about the capabilities of an applica- 



tion, unclear prompts or error 
messages, or how to accomplish a 
particular task. 

The Visi On system provides an ex- 
tensive help network of individual 
frames linked together in such a way 
that any frame can be reached by 
following some sequence of intercon- 
necting links. The more links that 
must be traversed, the farther apart 
the frames. Related frames are "near" 
in this sense; loosely related frames 
are farther apart. The Visi On help 
system interface provides a natural 
means of moving from frame to 
frame. 

A user requests help by choosing 
HELP in the global menu and then 
pointing with the mouse at the object 
that needs to be explained. The object 
may be a menu choice in some ap- 
plication, an error message, a portion 
of a display, or anything on the 
screen that may require explanation. 

The help system responds by open- 
ing a new help window and display- 
ing the appropriate help frame. Once 
the window is open, the user is free to 
traverse the help network by picking 
commands in the help window's 
menu or cross-references that may be 
embedded in the help text itself. Help 
windows behave just as any other ap- 
plication in the system and thus may 
be reframed, closed, or opened com- 
pletely to fill the entire screen. Useful 
frames may be placed off to the side 
for frequent reference, tucked away 
for future reference by closing, or 
deleted. 



178 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



WE HAVE THE JUMP 
ON THE COMPETITION 



Kangaroo 





in QUALITY and PRICE! 



Kangaroo- the best disk at any price! 

• CERTIFIED 100% ERROR FREE 

• REINFORCED HUB RINGS 

ALL KANGAROO DISKS ARE 
PACKAGED IN A HARD LIBRARY CASE 

10 YEAR WARRANTY 



| Try A Box Of 

■ Kangaroos On Us! 

We are so convinced Kangaroo is the best 
disk you can buy that we make this offer. Buy 
a box of Kangaroos, if for any reason you are 
not satisfied with the quality of Kangaroos, 
return them within 30 days for a full 
refund — no questions asked. 



EXCLUSIVE NORTH AMERICAN 
DISTRIBUTOR: 



MICROCOMPUTER 

BUSINESS 

[NDUSTHIESI^— 



ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES: 1019 8TH STREET. GOLDEN, COLORADO 80401 (USA) 
TELEPHONE: (303) 279 8438 TWX: 910-934-0191 



";le 272 on inquiry card. 



Will This 
Happen = 
to You? 

NOT IF YOU BUY 

YOUR PRINTER 

FROM... 



ipffl® 




SERVICE, COMPUTER AND SOFTWARE COMPATIBILITY, and LOW 
PRICE, are among the many factors to consider when purchasing a 
printer. At the PRINTER STORE we specialize in printers, so our trained 
professional staff oan help you choose the right printer for your personal 
and business needs. Every Printer Purchase includes: 



• FULL FACTORY 
AUTHORIZED 
SERVICE 



• FREE 

TECHNICAL 
CONSULTATION 



• FULL 

AFTER SALE 
SUPPORT 



DOT MATRIX printers 

EPSON SERIES 

FX80 $CALL 

FX 100 SCALL 

OKIDATA SERIES 

82A SCALL 

83 A $685 

92A SCALL 

93A SCALL 

84(parallel) SCALL 

C. ITOH SERIES 

8510 Prowriter SCALL 

Prowriterll SCALL 

New! Banana $ 239 

IDS SERIES 

Microprism 480 SCALL 

Prism 80 $ CALL 

Prism 132 SCALL 

GEMINI SERIES 

Gemini 10 SCALL 

Gemini 15 SCALL 

NEC8023 SCALL 

Toshiba P 1350 $1750 



LETTER QUALITY printers 

BROTHER SERIES 

HR-1 (parallel) $799 

HR-1 (serial) SCALL 

HR-15 SCALL 

COMREX SERIES 

CR-1 (parallel) $ CALL 

CR-1 (serial) $ CALL 

CR-2 $CALL 

C. ITOH SERIES „ _., 

F-10 40 cps S CALL 

F-10 55CDS SCALL 

Daisywriter SCALL 

NEC SERIES 
3510 $CALL 

3530 $1850 

3550 $ CALL 

7710 S CALL 

7730 $ CALL 

SCM-TPI $549 

Grappler+ $ CALL 

Apple Dumpling $ CALL 

Printer Sound Enclosure. ... SCALL 



We carry a full line of Cables and Accessories 
Call (213) 470-1888 and ask us about. . . 



PHONE REBATE 

We are so confident of our LOW PRICES and SUPPORT that we are 
going to ask you to make the initial investment by calling us. In 
return, when you buy your printer from us, we will rebate the cost of 
your call and deduct it from your invoice. 



printef 



STORE 



1) LOW PRICES 

2) FREE INTERFACING BOOKLET 

3) FREE TECHNICAL SUPPORT 

4) FULL SERVICE OPTION 

HOW TO ORDER: Our phone lines are open from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
PST. Monday-Friday. We accept VISA. MASTERCHAflGE (at no extra 
charge), personal checks take two weeks to clear. COD'S accepted. 
Same-day shipment on orders placed before 1p.m. Manufacturer's 
warranty applicable on all equipment. Prices subject to change. 



2357 Westwood Blvd., L.A., CA 90064 i 



© The Printer Store, 1983 



The help network mechanism is so 
general that it is quite possible to 
design networks that hinder rather 
than help the user. To design an effec- 
tive network, it is important to 
understand the various conditions 
that prompt users to solicit help. 

The user who solicits help is 
generally in trouble. Thus help is a 
necessary distraction that will be 
tolerated to a greater or lesser degree 
depending on the nature of the prob- 
lem the user is solving. If the problem 
is "getting to know the system 
better," a spare-time activity, 
perhaps, the user will be willing to in- 
teract extensively with the help facili- 
ty. On the other hand, if the problem 
is "getting the report out in the next 
half hour," the user's tolerance for 
help distractions will be low. In the 
first example, the user is essentially 
nondirected, a browser with no 
specific goal. In the second, he has a 
very specific goal. 

Browsers do not have a sense of 
urgency and are willing to travel 
around the help system as their in- 
terests dictate. They require overview 
frames to orient themselves and detail 
frames to dig deeper into interesting 
areas, and they frequently use glos- 
saries and references to indirectly 
related help materials. 

Goal-directed users, in contrast, do 
have a sense of urgency, perhaps 
made acute by a deadline. They are 
put off by verbosity, involved non- 
focused traveling, and expositions 
that don't seem to be leading them 
quickly to a better understanding of 
how to use the system to solve a 
problem. 

The design and organization of 
help frames depend upon whether a 
user is browsing or in hot pursuit of a 
solution to a specific problem. To the 
extent that designers can anticipate 
this, the network may be tailored. An 
individual help frame catering to a 
browser might be almost tutorial in 
nature and look like a page out of a 
manual. Such a frame would be text 
intensive and have little white space. 
A frame supporting a directed user 
will look more like a viewgraph, with 
ample white space and a regular 
layout. 

Goal-directed users enter a help 



180 July 19*3 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 326 on inquiry card. 



You've got problems. Get an expert 
to help you. Get KnowledgeMan. 

Why not dBASE II or 1-2-3? 
Because KnowledgeMan w j- 
gives you the best of the data !▲ 
management and spread- f^ 
sheet worlds . . . and much more — 
integrated to manage information 
like no other package can. 



Designed to be more **4%jp4 
powerful and easier to g>^JJ 
use, KnowledgeMan has 
it all. Fast, efficient storage. Queries 
like IBM's SQL/DS. 3rd generation 
spreadsheet. Report writer. I/O 
screen manager. Statistics. 
Structured programming Ian- A- 
guage. Security. \, 



IF" Introducing , a= 

KnowledgeMan 

more — 

ao The all-in* one °7 E 
software package that 

e. Queries screen 

™r "Out-Thinks" .£ 

s. q m including 

an the competition °l s ; 



KnowledgeMan Is: 
■ Easy to get to know. Goes to work 
fast with easy-to-follow documentation. 
■ Friendly and intelligent. 

* ^T Interactive. English-like 

r»l^l commands. Answers spur- 
of-the-moment questions. 
■ Organized. Keeps track of data in 
concise tabular form. 
■ Efficient. Supports B ' tree 
4-L»/^4- indexing and virtual fields. 
U ldl ■ Neat. Produces forms 
the way you want, on the 
screen or on the printer. Automatic 
editing and integrity checking. 
■ Great with figures. Statistics, 
including means and standard devia- 
>>* tions. Square roots, logarithms, trig 
II functions, random numbers, etc. 



DO YOU NEED TO... dBASE I 

Store and retrieve data? 

■ Max fields per record 32 

■ Max tables open at once 2 

■ Max records per table 65.535 

■ Query multiple tables 
with a single command 

■ Dynamic sort of query 
output No 

■ Multi-level control breaks No 

Use a spreadsheet? 

■ Rows by columns 

■ Cell can extract data 
from independent tables No 

■ Cell can be entire program No 

Make screens, forms attractive? 

■ Color, reverse video, 
blinking, half-intensity, bell. No 

■ Form-at-a-time processing No 

Safeguard data? 

■ Passwords, data encryption 

■ Field level read/write 
protection No 

The information in this table is believed to be correct based upon 
vendor documentation but cannot be guaranteed. 



256 

1 

2,048 



No 
No 



2048 x 256 



No 
No 



No 
No 



No 



KnowledgeMan 

255 

Unlimited 

65,535 



Yes 
Yes 



Yes 
Yes 



Yes 
Yes 



ORDER KnowledgeMan now— only I 
$500, the best value on the market. I 

First releases are for the IBM PC, | 
Victor/Sirius, Altos. Call regarding I 
other environments. I 

Handling & shipping: add $10 for 
U.S.. Canada. Mexico: $45 elsewhere. I 
Indiana residents add 5% sales tax. I 
VISA and MASTERCARD orders may I 
be placed by phone. 
Call (317) 463-2581 or see your local [ 
computer dealer lor a demo. J 



4 



Micro Data Base 
Systems, Inc. 



KnowledgeMan is a Trademark of Micro 
Data Base Systems, Inc.: SQL/DS. PC of 
IBM ; Victor/Sirius of Victor Business Sys- 
tems . Altos of Altos Computer Systems , 
dBASE II of Ashton-Tate; 1-2-3 of Lotus 
Development Corp. 



Send check or money order payable to: 
Micro Data Base Systems. Inc., P.O. Box 248 
Lafayette, IN 47902, Attn: David Bartkus 

Name 

Add ress 

City 



_ State. 



-Zip- 



Phone ( ) 

Operating System D PCOOS n MSDOS □ CP/M-86 

Machine /disk format 

n5W" IBM PC SS D5M" Victor/Sirius P!8" IBM 3740 SS-SD 

172K RAM & 500K mass storage recommended 
n Check or money order enclosed (US. Currency) 

□ MasterCard/VISA No 



| Expiration Date_ 



_BankNo.(ifMC)_ 



Signature- 



□ Please send more information. 



Circle 215 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 181 



PERFORMANCE 



QUALITY 



SDSystems 



RELIABILITY 



The Choice of Systems Integrators Worldwide! 

The features you need, the quality you demand, and 
field proven with over 50,000 S-100 boards sold since 
1977. SDSystems quality board products now backed by 
a one year warranty. 



IEEE 696/S-100 BUS 



H 



SBC 200 
$315 



ExpandoRAM III 
$650 



n 



3 



Versa Floppy II 
$450 



CPU Board 

• Z80A Processor, 4 
MHZ. 

• Serial Port 

• Parallel Port 

• Includes Monitor 
- Prom 



Memory Board 

• 256K Dram 

• 4 MHZ Operation 

• Software Selectable 
Bank Switch 

• Ideal for use with 
Banked CP/M Plus™ 



Disk Controller 

• Control up to 4 Drives 
Simultaneously 

• Single or Double Side 

• Single or Double 
Density 

• Includes CP/M Plus™ 
(V3.0) and BiOS 



■ Buy the Complete SDSystems 

! Three Board Set with CP/M Plus™ 

■ And SAVE 

I 

Price if Purchased Separately $1415 



YOUR I 

COST I 

$1295°° | 



SDSystems State-Of-The-Art 
S-100 Mainframe Enclosure 

• 6 Slot Motherboard with folded 
bus architecture 

• Power supply, reset, and on/off 
are integral to the motherboard 

• Dual cooling fans 

• Compact size approximately 
4"X14"X17" 



CP/M Plus™-High Performance 
Single User Operating System 

• CP/M 2.2™ compatible-no 
modification 

• When used with SDSystems 
256K memory board speeds are 
up to 7 times faster than CP/M 

2.2TM 

• Support for 1 to 16 banks of RAM 

• High performance file system 



Obtain These and Other Fine SDSystems Products From: 



S100 

Div of 696 Corp 






14425 North 79th Street, Suite B 

Scottsdale, Arizona 85260 

TELEX 165025 

Technical 602-991-7870 

Sales 800-528-3138 

FULL DEALER SUPPORT 



Est 1977 



Visit our Showroom, Hours Monday-Friday 9:00 am-5:00 pm 

CP/M 2.2 and CP/M Plus Trademarks of Digital Research, Inc. 



182 July 19S3 © BYTE Publication! Inc 



Circle 471 on Inquiry card. 



frame thinking of their problem in 
terms of solution steps natural to 
them. They should emerge with 
potentially relevant actions directly 
supported by the application. These 
help frames serve to translate user 
subproblems into application actions. 
This implies that the frame should 
allow the user to quickly answer the 
following questions: 

•Ballpark: Is this frame relavant? 
(Am I wasting my time reading it?) 
•Target: Assuming it's relevant, 
where is the information I need? 
•Action: Assuming I've found the in- 
formation, what do I do next? 

Assuming that users read text from 
left to right and top to bottom but can 
quickly scan text vertically if it is 
organized in a regular, visually 
predictable manner, we are led to 
frames that have a tabular layout. 
This layout presents user concepts 
vertically on the left in frequency-of- 
use priority (if that is known or ap- 
plicable) so that users can quickly 
answer the targetting question. Cor- 
responding actions or further helps 
appear on the right, allowing the user 
to answer the action question. The 
purpose of the frame should be ex- 
plicitly stated so that the user may 
quickly answer the ballpark question. 

Conclusion 

The concepts and structures under- 
lying the Visi On interface are a syn- 
thesis of ideas from many sources, 
some theoretical, some applied, some 
tested, some previously untried. 
There are few proven methods in this 
technology, for this audience, and 
with our express goals. Based on our 
research and tests with sample users, 
we believe that Visi On will be all that 
we set out to achieve. The real test, 
though, will be in the marketplace 
with end users who are looking for a 
practical tool that gets the job done 
without getting in the way. We await 
their verdict. ■ 

About the Author 

Dr. Woodmansee is a staff engineer at 
Visicorp Inc. (2895 Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 
95134). He is responsible for the development 
and application of applied human-engineering 
technology. 

Circle 365 on Inquiry card. » 



THE PRICE OF FAST 
WAS JUST SHATTERED! 




■aw*** 



256Kbyte 
SemiDisk $99 



For more than a year, we've been making the 
most advanced disk emulator available for micro- 
computers. The one that's taken the "waiting" 
out of computing. Now we have some more 
news that'll set the world on fire: A price cut! 
The NEW 256Kbyte board is only $995. And the 
512Kbyte SemiDisks for the S-100 and TRS-80 
Model II are $1495. (1Mbyte unit is $2350.) So, 
what are you waiting for? 

The SemiDisk is the ORIGINAL single-board 
microcomputer disk emulator. It has a greater 
storage density than any other: 1 Mbyte per 
board! And we've been shipping them for over 
a year! We didn't do this with 'me too' engineer- 
ing. Our products are true innovations, based 
on reliable technology and proven designs, 
without the need for custom components. 



Floppies are ok for data transfer or long-term 
storage. But they fall far short as online storage. 
If you are using high level languages, spelling 
checkers, word processors, databases and other 
disk-intensive software, you know the price you 
are paying: time. Your productivity is going down 
the drain. The SemiDisk disk emulator will save 
time and increase your productivity. 

Even better, Release 5.0 of the SemiDisk CP/M-80 
installation software contains SemiSpool, an 
automatic printer buffer. No extra hardware is 
required; it's all in the software. Up to 8 Mbytes of 
buffer space! It's a better solution than a $350 
64Kbyte printer buffer that wastes space on your 
desk. Send documents of almost any length to the 
printer at a very high speed, then continue using 
the computer immediately. No Waiting! 



SemiDisk 

It's the disk the others are trying to copy. 



SemiDisk Systems, Inc. 

P.O. Box GG Beaverton, OR 97075 (503) 642-3100 

Call 503-646-5510 for CBBS "/NW, a SemiDisk-equipped computer bulletin board. 
SemiDisk trademark of SemiDisk Systems, Inc. Copyright 1983 SemiDisk Systems, Inc. 




H(,in!i 



-» - -T --* T - 



ml 



iiiiiiif 



■'Wt 



A 



\44-H\A I 

» t | > 1 a 



The Memory Board: I 



.iiiimiiiiiiiiimiiiiiii' 
5245 to 256KB for $545. 






:,,m?>M$m& 







•■J 

> 


H 

Mi'' 


WJWWj 


■ 

MH 

i~ ■- - - 


*. — ._ - . — ... 

■ 




Mf 


u ---.—•,. . . . 



'I' \*!hW 






The IDEAboard: 5 



wiard. Memory up to ioSKIi Options include serial 






Prices range from S320 for 64KB with I option to $695 lor 256KB with 3 options. All prices include 
RAMFLOPPY disk emulation software. 











* 






IT • It I t* . Hi 1 

" MgMHjpj t> w « m 

« M IH • MM MM 
MM Mia MM MM 


\ 


MM MIM MM MM 

«.M f* » MM MIM 


% 




^^ 


», 








PWRiiiiii 


• 






BMmMMMBBbjbj, 


Jjy ~ /iT* *%jjk<jL«4'3S^Bt?!^y 





BWIBIir ideas 

from IDE for expand, n 

yourffiMPC. 



We think the IBM Personal Computer is the best on the 
market. That's why we've concentrated our efforts on making 
add-ons strictly for the IBM PC. 

We have ideas that can make your IBM PC even better And 
more affordable. 

Granted, those are ambitious goals. Goals that take quite a bit 
of imagination - and nerve - to reach. 

And at IDE, we think we have the ideas it takes. 
Better Idea No. 1: Innovative products. 

We're leaders, not followers. IDE was first with a Combination 



Board for the IBM PC that includes a Winchester disk drive inter- 
face. On the board itself. 

We were the first to let you cable both serial and parallel 
interfaces from the back of the board. Without any troublesome 
jury rigging, without wasting expansion slots, and with the unit's 
protective cover in place. 

And the innovations don't stop there. Removable Winchester 
disk drives. Expandable memory boards. Printer spooler software. 
Disk emulation software. A broad array of products. . .with still 
more to come. 



IDE Dealers: Alaska: VFM Electronics, Fairbanks o Arizona: Abbot Data Products, Glendale; Computer Emporium, Tucson a California: Q-Bits. Mountain View; M icroHelp, El Cajon; Stoneware Ltd. , La Jolla; Precision Design 
Corp., San Diego u Connecticut: The Computer Establishment, Old Saybrook; MicroAge, Danbuty; American Business Computers, Groton; Creative Systems, E. Granby □ Iowa: ComputerLand, Des Moines 
d Kansas: CompuType, Manhattan o Massachusetts: Aiby Corporation, Cambridge; TEK Microsystems, Boston; MTS Microproducts, Arlington a Michigan: The Computer Workshop, Houghton; TransNational Corp., Troy 
o Minnesota: Computer Depot/Daytons Computer Centers, Minneapolis, St. Paul, Burnsville Centec Ridgedale, Rosedale, South dale o Nebraska: Computerland, Lincoln; ComputerLand, Omaha o New Hampshire: Software 



itesA I 
- I '. 














^M, 



The IDEAdisk: Winchester disk drives, in-chassis or self-contained external 

mount, fixed or removable cartridge. From $1450 to $2000. 

Special offer: 10MB (5 + 5) external mount from $2600 to $3000. 



I IIIKA 

Sothrare Diskette 



Memorv Diagnostic 


| IDEAdisk 




Clock/Calendar 


| 




Printer Spooler 


| 






RAMF10PPY 















1 im-:.\ 

I Software Diskette 


Memory Diagnostic 




IDEAdisk 






Clock/Calendar 










Printer Spooler 










■ '■:■■: \. ■:■■..:!■ i .. 


RAMFLOPPY |X 








■ 







TiTkX iiika 




IDEAware: 



RAMFI.OPPYdiski 









Better Idea No. 2: One year warranty. 

We believe in the quality of our products. We buy only 
bumt-in components; we do extensive burn-in ourselves; and 
we customize final testing to match customers' configurations. 

That's why we offer a full year warranty with all IDE products. 
365 days. Not 90. 

And we bacR it up with full software support and diagnostics, 
including software updates as necessary. 
Better Idea No. 3: Unique upgrade policy. 

When you buy any IDE product, you buy only the options you 
want. So you never have to pay for something you don't need. 

Then you can add extras as you need them. 

Take our boards, for example. For one year, you can trade up 
a board for one with more memory and/or options for the price 
differential plus $25. In fact, you can trade up any IDE product 
for anything else in our product line the same way. 

And that's unique. 
Better Idea No. 4: Service that really delivers. 

Our products are available through IDE dealers and repre- 
sentatives around the country. And our network is growing 
quickly 

We offer free installation in the metropolitan areas listed 
below, and our retailers will install any of our products for you 
right in the store. 

If you'd rather do it yourself, we provide every IDE product 

Designs, Deny a New York: Future Data, Oppenheimer Software, N.Y.C ; Yankee Computer Services, Putnam Valley 

U-Compute, Toledo □ South Carolina: Berry's Office Automation, Lugoff a Texas: MicroSpec, Video Station, Piano; 

Reston □ Washington: COMCO, Seattle 

IDE Representatives: Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Washington D.C , Atlanta, Houston, Chicago, Los Angeles. International Distributors: Austria, Switzerland, West Germany: Computer 2000 GmbH . Munich 

Q Israel: O.D.C. Systems, Natanya. 

Circle 197 on inquiry card. 



with all the.-:: imentati n m n dtoperformtl ■ nstallation 

yourself. In minutes. 

Better Idea No. 5: High value; low price. 

Since our products are made strictly for the IBM PC, we can 
concentrate our efforts. Run our company more efficiently And 
keep costs down. 

But keeping costs down isn't enough for us. We pursue an 
aggressive pricing policy, too. Because we believe that by selling 
more add-ons at lower prices, we will become a leader in the 
industry. Our ideas will see to that. 

You'll find all of IDE's better ideas on display at the fine retail- 
ers shown below. 

If you don't see one for your area, call us toll-free. The list 
is growing all the time, and we'll give you the name of a dealer 
near you. Or take your order directly by phone. 

And remember: when you think of expanding your IBM PC, 
think of IDE first. We have five great ideas for you. 

1-800-257-5027 

(In Massachusetts call (617) 275-4430) 

IDEAssociates 

Better ideas for personal computers. 

IDE Associates, Inc., 7 Oak Park Drive, Bedford, MA 01730 

a North Carolina: Surveyor's Supply, Apex; Computer South, Charlotte; Microcomputer Sales, Fayetteville □ Ohio: 
Southwest Automation, HoustbnQ Utah: Weidner Communications Corp., Provo □ Virginia: Micro Solutions. 



Voice Lab 

Part 1: A System for 
Digital Speech Synthesis and Analysis 

Several modular routines are useful for 
application programming and experimentation. 



Your new home video game rasps 
playing instructions to you when you 
make a mistake. Your new car au- 
dibly reminds you to buckle your seat 
belt and check the oil. And in your 
office building, the elevator politely 
announces its arrival at your floor. 

Digital speech synthesis has made it 
possible for commonplace mechan- 
isms to possess surprising powers of 
expression, and advancing technol- 
ogy is making speech synthesis prac- 
tical at lower and lower prices. 
Machine recognition of speech is pro- 
gressing much more slowly, but it is 
making a first appearance in a few ap- 
plications where it's cost-effective. 

Speech synthesis has also shown up 
in personal computers, but the syn- 
thesis schemes in common use have 
limitations (in expense, vocabulary, 
or intelligibility) that have restricted 
their use. However, any personal 
computer equipped an analog-to- 
digital (A/D) converter and a digital- 
to-analog (D/A) converter would 
theoretically be capable of both 



by John E. Hoot 

speech synthesis and recognition, if 
only it had the necessary software. 

A practical, reliable, and afford- 
able method for computers to 
recognize and synthes'ize speech 
would yield at least these three 
benefits to computer users: 

Maximum user-friendliness: Speech 
is our most natural mode of commu- 
nication. 

Economy: Speech interaction could 
eventually become the least expensive 
way to communicate with a com- 
puter. The components of today's 
most common user/computer inter- 
face — a video monitor and key- 
board — cost several hundred dollars, 
while a loudspeaker and microphone 
cost only a few dollars. Given the de- 
creasing price of electronic sophistica- 
tion, a future generation of portable 
computers may be speech-oriented. 

New applications: Speech interac- 
tion does not interfere with most 
human activities, especially those 
that require use of the hands; there- 



fore, speech interaction could allow 
computers to be used for tasks that 
are now impractical. 

But despite the potential benefits of 
computer speech, the problems it 
poses are not simple. 

Most personal computer systems 
can now be equipped with analog-to- 
digital and digital-to-analog con- 
verters. The A/D converter allows 
the computer to detect the con- 
tinuously varying electrical signals 
that represent (form an analog of) a 
sound and store them as a series of 
binary numbers. Conversely, the 
D/A converter takes a series of 
numbers stored in the computer and 
produces analog electrical signals, 
which can be fed into a loudspeaker 
to produce sound. Numerous articles 
have been written by other authors to 
explain how these devices work and 
how to add them to your computer, 
so I won't treat them in any detail 
here (see references 2 and 8). 

Nevertheless, programs to use A/D 



186 July 19*3 © BYTE Publications Inc 



VOICE 
MESSAGES 






ANALOG 












I/O 


















DIGITAL 
FILTER 






SPEECH 
BUFFER 




SPEECH 
ANALYSIS 










h 














VOICE 
DICTIONARY 





Figure 1: The main program, Voice Lab, 
uses a set of p-System units that aid in the 
creation and maintenance of a vocabulary 
and provide signal-analysis and signal- 
modification functions to investigate the 
structure and content of digitized speech. 
The program units are designed so that 
they not only serve Voice Lab but can pro- 
vide synthesized speech output from vir- 
tually any program running under the 
p-System. Data flows between the units ac- 
cording to a fixed scheme. 



and D/A converters for speech in- 
teraction or even for mere speech 
research are lacking for most com- 
puters. For my own purposes, I set 
out to design an integrated, yet 
modular, system of hardware and 
software that would do two things: 
allow me to use my present applica- 
tion programs with speech output 
and permit me to perform speech 
analysis to study the potential for 
speech input. 

The result of this effort is a collec- 
tion of specialized program routines 
that are compiled as Pascal-language 
units in the UCSD (University of Cal- 
ifornia, San Diego) p-System, which 
is supported by Softech Microsys- 
tems. These program units are used 
by a main program called Voice Lab, 
working together according to the 
relationship shown in the block dia- 
gram of figure 1. 

(In UCSD Pascal, a unit is a collec- 
tion of specialized procedures and/or 
functions that can be used as if they 
were explicitly declared within the 
program that uses them. Prepro- 
grammed units, tailored to an appli- 
cation, extend the utility of the UCSD 
Pascal language without requiring 
that the language itself be extended. 
Units are usually compiled separately 
from the using program.) 

Voice Lab serves as an interactive 
utility program, aiding in the creation 
and maintenance of a vocabulary and 
providing signal-analysis and modifi- 



Analog I/O Unit 

services provided: 

•analog output from the speech buffer 
•digitizing speech into the speech buffer 

resources provided: 

• 16K-byte speech buffer 

• tempo-rate variable 

Voice Dictionary Unit 
services provided: 

•vocabulary word look-up 
•vocabulary word insertion 
•vocabulary word deletion 
•vocabulary word retrieval 
•dictionary erasure 

Voice Messages Unit 

services provided: 

•word-to-speech output 

• string-to-speech output 

Voice Display Unit 

services provided: 

•zero-crossing counts and plots 

• spectral-energy plots 

• total speech-energy plots 

• signal-level monitoring 

Voice Filter Unit 
service provided: 

• interactive linear digital filtering 

Table 1: Summary of functions of Voice Lab units. 



cation functions to investigate the 
structure and content of digitized 
speech. Furthermore, the program 
units are designed so that they can 
not only serve Voice Lab but also 
provide synthesized-speech output 
from virtually any program running 
under the p-System. They allow my 
computer to speak with a limited vo- 
cabulary and provide a set of tools 
for investigating computer speech- 
generation and recognition. 

Architecture of Voice Lab 

Each function of Voice Lab is pro- 
vided by a single unit; each unit con- 
tains all of the variables and struc- 
tures necessary to provide its par- 
ticular service. The interface sections 
of each unit contain only these 
necessary structures. Table 1 sum- 
marizes the services and resources 
provided by each unit in Voice Lab. 

This design approach has several 
benefits. It's easy to change the way 
functions within Voice Lab are im- 



plemented. Recompilation time is 
minimized. Because units are always 
segmented, the program can be made 
more complex without increasing 
memory requirements; and the Voice 
Lab units can be easily reused in other 
projects. 

Let's take a look at the individual 
units and their functions. 

Analog I/O Unit 

The Analog I/O (Analog IO) unit 

of Voice Lab uses the computer's A/D 
converter to record snatches of 
sound, initially held in a sound buf- 
fer, as a sequence of numbers. The 
unit also performs the opposite func- 
tion: it converts a sequence of 
numbers in the sound buffer into 
audible sounds using the D/A con- 
verter. These two processes are called 
speech encoding and decoding. 

Of the units in Voice Lab, only the 
Analog I/O unit and the speech- 
analysis units are concerned with ex- 
actly how the speech sounds are en- 



July 1983 © BYTE Publication* Inc 187 



BITE 



zback issues for sale 





1976 


1977 


1978 


1979 


Jan. 








$2.75 


Feb. 






$2.75 


$2.75 


March 






$2.75 


2.75 


April 






$2.75 


$2.75 


May 




$2.00 


$2.75 


$2.75 


June 




$2.00 


$2.75 


$2.75 


July 


$2.00 


$2.00 


$2.75 


$2.75 


Aug. 




S2.00 


$2.75 


$2.75 


Sept. 




$2.75 


$2.75 


$2.75 


Oct. 






$2.75 


$2.75 


Nov. 




$2.75 




$3.25 


Dec. 


$2.00 


$2.75 


$2.75 


$3.25 




1980 


1981 


1982 


1983 


Jan. 


$3.25 


$3.25 




$3.70 


Feb. 


$3.25 


$3.25 


$3.70 


$3.70 


March 


$3.25 


$3.25 


$3.70 


$3.70 


April 


$3.25 


$3.25 


$3.70 


$3.70 


May 


$3.25 


$3.25 


$3.70 


$3.70 


June 


$3.25 


$3.25 


$3.70 


$3.70 


July 


$3.25 


$3.25 


$3.70 




Aug. 


$3.25 


$3.25 


$3.70 




Sept. 


$3.25 


$3.25 


$3.70 




Oct. 


$3.25 


$3.25 






Nov. 


$3.25 


$3.25 


$3.70 




Dec. 


$3.25 


$3.25 


$3.70 





Circle and send requests with payment to: 

BYTE Back Issues 

P.O. Box 328, Hancock, IMH 03449 



The above prices include postage in the US. 

Please add S.50 per copy for Canada and 

Mexico; and S2.00 per copy to foreign countries. 

D Check enclosed 

"Payments from foreign countries must be made 

in US funds payable at a US bank. 

□ VISA □ MasterCard 

Card t Exp. 

Signature 



"Please allow 4 weeks for domestic delivery 
and 8 weeks for foreign delivery. 



address 
city 



state . 



zip. 



coded in the buffer. You can encode 
sounds in many ways, and different 
methods are appropriate in different 
applications. 

Two principles are important in 
choosing an encoding scheme. First, 
the more you know about a sound 
before you start encoding it, the more 
compact you can make your encod- 
ing. Second, you should weigh com- 
putational complexity (encoding and 
decoding time) against the space re- 
quired to store the sound. 

To decide on how to represent 
sounds as numbers, I began by apply- 
ing the first principle. 

Speech is much like music played 
from a complex instrument. It is com- 
posed of many different "notes" 
played simultaneously, interacting in 
complex ways. Furthermore, the 
voice is a tremendously versatile in- 
strument. It can be as percussive as a 
snare drum at one moment or as me- 
lodious as a flute just a fraction of a 
second later. 

The frequencies present in speech 
can range from 15 kilohertz (kHz) 
down to 10 hertz. And the signal- 
strength range of the human voice is 
as impressive as its frequency range. 
The ratio in volume between a shout 
and a quiet whisper is over 16,000 to 
1. To detect every nuance of all the 
sounds in a voice, you would have to 
measure the sound signal over 30,000 
times per second and store each mea- 
surement, using many bits of the 
computer's memory. Exactly captur- 
ing 1 second of such speech with cer- 
tainty would require more user mem- 
ory than my computer contains. Even 
a floppy disk would hold only 4 to 5 
seconds of sound, and the data-trans- 
fer rate could not keep up. 

Fortunately, it isn't necessary to re- 
produce speech sounds with that 
much precision for them to be accept- 
able and understandable. Voice tele- 
phone systems, for instance, are re- 
stricted to transmitting voice sounds 
from 30 Hz to 3 kHz, with volume 
ratios of less than 1000 to 1. True, 
people's voices do not sound the same 
on the phone as in person, but it's 
usually easy to recognize a familiar 
voice over the phone, and the speech 
is easily understood. 

What constitutes acceptable speech 



188 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 






TO ORDER CALL 
1-800-451-2502 
617-641-12 



Technical Support 
617-641-1235 




-zr 



"C7 



L_ 



TEACH YOUR COMPUTER WHO'S BOSS! 

ATTEND A dBASE II OR 1-2-3 CLASS 

Taught by ADAM B.GREEN 

Author of the dBASE II USER'S GUIDE 

"Green's approach introduces dBASE II™ on a conceptual level, helping people 
learn to think about their information in a constructive way." 

Jim Taylor, Product Manager, Ashton-Tate 

Monday dBASE II" Fundamentals 

Tuesday dBASE II Programming 

Wednesday Advanced dBASE II"" Techniques 

Friday Business Planning With 1-2-3 " 

Each day of instruction runs from 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM and costs $175. Extensive 
notes and a buffet lunch are included. Call or write for a detailed description of each 
class, and a copy of our impressive client list. 

Register now for a class near you! 



ANCHORAGE 

August 11-12 
CHICAGO 
October '83 
DALLAS 

Nov. 14-18 

dBASE ir 



HONOLULU 

January '84 
LOS ANGELES 

July 18-22 
NEW YORK 

September 19-23 



ORLANDO / 

February '84 
SAN DIEGO 
Dec. 12-16 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
Aug. 29-Sept. 2 



classes are presented by SoftwareBanc Seminars 

'"-MANUFACTURER'S TRADEMARK 



Sample 


PCM 


DPCM 


DPCM 


DPCM 


ADPCM 


ADPCM 


ADPCM 


ADPCM 


Time 


Wave 


Wave 


Delta 


Error 


Wave 


Sign 


Delta 


Error 


1 


100 


100 








100 




4 





2 


160 


160 


32 


u 


108 




8 


52 


3 


192 


192 


16 





124 




16 


68 


4 


208 


208 


-28 





156 




32 


52 


5 


180 


180 


-63 





220 




64 


-40 


6 


71 


117 


-63 


-46 


92 


-1 


128 


-21 


7 


27 


54 


-31 


-27 


28 


-1 


64 


-1 


8 


23 


23 


37 





-100 


- 1 


128 


123 


9 


60 


60 


63 





156 




256 


-96 


10 


181 


123 


63 


58 


284 




128 


-103 


11 


210 


186 


21 


24 


28 


_ -| 


256 


182 


12 


207 


207 


-27 





156 




128 


51 


13 


180 


180 


-61 





220 




64 


-40 


14 


119 


119 


-49 





92 


- 1 


128 


27 


15 


70 


70 


-12 





28 


- 1 


64 


42 


16 


58 


58 


-19 





156 




128 


-98 


17 


39 


39 


-11 





92 


- 1 


64 


-53 


18 


28 


28 


11 





60 


- 1 


32 


-32 


19 


39 


39 


24 





-4 


- 1 


64 


43 


20 


63 


63 


60 





124 




128 


-61 


21 


123 


123 


54 





60 


_ -| 


64 


63 


22 


177 


177 


23 





92 




32 


85 


23 


200 


200 


-2 





108 




16 


92 


24 


198 


198 


-17 





140 




32 


58 


25 


181 


181 


-62 





204 




64 


-23 


26 


119 


119 


-19 





76 


- 1 


128 


43 


27 


100 


100 








140 




64 


-40 



Table 2: Comparison of time-domain speech encodings. The "Wave" columns refer to the values of the reproduced waveforms. 



quality is a subjective judgment on 
the part of the listener. One factor I 
had to consider when picking a fre- 
quency range for Voice Lab is the 
voice pitch of the human speakers 
likely to be speaking into it. A low- 
pitched voice would need fewer 
samples than a high-pitched one. If 
you want to use Voice Lab, you 
should experiment with different 
sampling values. I have been satisfied 
with limiting Voice Lab to speech 
sounds from 50 Hz to 2.5 kHz, with 
volume ratios of less than 256 to 1. 

As I have constructed it, the 
Analog I/O unit encodes speech by 
sampling the input sound signal 5000 
times every second and converting its 
amplitude into a number from to 
255. A burst of speech is represented 
in Analog I/O as a vector of these 
samples. The exact method of con- 
verting the sound to numbers will be 
discussed shortly. However they are 
encoded, the numbers are translated 



back to a sound wave when Analog 
I/O writes out successive samples 
each 1/5000 second to a D/A con- 
verter and thence through an audio 
amplifier and into a loudspeaker. A 
16K-byte speech buffer will hold 
about 3 seconds of speech; depending 
on how quickly you speak and on 
what you say, this is between 3 and 
10 words. 

Methods for encoding speech fall 
into two broad categories: frequency- 
domain and time-domain approaches. 

Time-Domain Encoding 

Time-domain encoding methods 
seek to measure and record the 
amplitudes of the sound waveforms, 
which vary in time, and to recon- 
struct the speech waveforms from 
their recorded history. The three 
most popular techniques of time- 
domain encoding are pulse-code 
modulation (PCM), differential 
pulse-code modulation (DPCM), and 



adaptive differential pulse-code mod- 
ulation (ADPCM). All of these mea- 
sure the exact amplitude of the speech 
waveform frequently enough so that 
when it is played back a reasonable 
facsimile of the original wave results. 
Table 2 shows a comparison of the 
encodings produced by the three 
methods. 

The method of encoding speech I 
chose is pulse-code modulation. This 
technique requires no special knowl- 
edge about speech signals, except 
their bandwidth. It uses the most 
memory for a given amount of signal 
of the three techniques mentioned, 
but it is the simplest. In fact, virtually 
no computing at all is required be- 
yond the storage and retrieval of the 
data. A speech sample before encod- 
ing by PCM is shown in figure 2a, 
while figure 2b shows the sample 
afterward. 

The other methods do have advan- 
tages in efficiency of storage. DPCM 



190 July 1983 © BYTE Publications he 



Circle 383 on Inquiry card. 



Adding a printer to your computer makes 
sense. But deciding which printer to add can be 
tricky. Do you settle for a printer with limited 
functions and an inexpensive price tag or buy a 
more versatile printer that costs more than your 
computer? Neither choice makes sense. 

II )_ _ _ _ _ r _ i ■ 



STX-80 printer from Star Micronics. It's the under 
$200 printer that's whisper-quiet, prints 60 cps 
and is ready to run with most popular personal 
computers. 
The STX-80 has deluxe features you would^ 






I 



expect in higher priced models. It prints a full 80 
columns of crisp, attractive characters with true 
descenders, foreign language characters and 
special symbols. It offers both finely detailed dot- 
addressable graphics and block graphics. 
And, of course, the STX-80 comes with Star 



print element). 

The STX-80 thermal printer from Star 
Micronics. It combines high performance with 

t a very low price. So now, there is nothing in 
the way of owning a quality printer. 

^ 'Manufacturer's suggested retail price. 



micro nics-inc 
THE POWER BEHIND THE PRINTED WORD. 

Computer Peripherals Division. 1120 Empire Cenlral Place 
Suite 216. Dallas, TX 75247 (214) 631-8560 




.■■■"■■'■:. ..'■'.. 



VTZT~m 



The newSTX-80 printer 
for only $199 




Figure 2a: Analog speech waveform fed as input to the analog-to-digital converter. 



f\ 



SX 



\f 




Figure 2b: Speech waveform digitized by simple puke-code modulation. 



r-TL 





r^ 



Figure 2c: Speech waveform digitized by differential pulse-code modulation. 





tJ 


1 h 


i/ 



Figure 2d: Speech waveform digitized by adaptive differential pulse-code modulation. 



is a variation of PCM that utilizes the 
fact that speech signals are not ran- 
dom but are closely related to sinu- 
soidal functions. Thus, at each suc- 
cessive sample time the signal value is 
not random; rather, it is likely to be 
relatively close to its preceding value. 
DPCM, therefore, stores a value in- 
dicating the change from the last 
recorded sample rather than a value 
representing the sample itself. 

The example in figure 2c shows the 
effect of DPCM encoding: a wave- 
form stored and reproduced using 
only 7 bits (sign bit plus a 6-bit delta 
[change] value). Notice that the 
amount of space required to store the 
signal has been reduced by 12 per- 
cent, but no significant errors have 



been introduced. DPCM does suffer 
from the defect that the errors, the 
differences between the input and re- 
produced values, tend to become 
large when the signal is varying 
quickly and when the rate of signal 
change exceeds the rate that can be 
represented by the number of bits re- 
served for the delta value. (This con- 
dition is called slope overloading.) 

ADPCM is a further development 
that cures this defect of DPCM. Opti- 
mized for speech storage, ADPCM 
offers better compliance with the in- 
put waveform and better intelligibili- 
ty of the reproduced voice signal at 
lower data rates (see reference 3). 

In ADPCM, each sample of the sig- 
nal is encoded by a complex process 



that includes these steps: a PCM- 
value differential dn is calculated by 
subtracting the previous PCM-code 
value from the current value; the 
quantization value An (delta-n) is ob- 
tained by multiplying the previous 
quantization value times a coefficient 
times the absolute value of the pre- 
vious PCM-code value; the PCM- 
value differential is then expressed in 
terms of the quantization value and is 
encoded in a small number of bits, 
sometimes as few as three. 

As the rate of change in the signal 
increases, An grows to track the more 
rapid changes. As the rate of change 
becomes smaller, An becomes smaller 
and tracks only the subtle changes. 

The comparison in table 2 shows 
large errors for ADPCM encoding, 
but this is not indicative of actual re- 
sults achievable in a system set up 
specifically for ADPCM: typically 
the sampling rate is two to four times 
what PCM or DPCM encodings 
might use, but the storage required is 
still only 25 to 50 percent of that 
needed by PCM, with comparable 
sampling errors. One further prob- 
lem: ADPCM is characterized by 
high-frequency error noise that must 
be filtered out to produce acceptable- 
quality speech reproduction. 

Frequency-Domain Encoding 

Frequency-based approaches seek 
to measure the frequencies present in 
a voice waveform and how they vary 
through time in distribution and in 
amplitude. Typically, if three or four 
dominant pitches are recorded, ac- 
ceptable speech can be reproduced. 
The most popular of the frequency- 
based approaches is linear-predictive 
coding (LPC), which is used in the 
Texas Instruments Speak & Spell toy. 

LPC is one of the most compact en- 
codings; using LPC, only about 300 
bytes are required to store one second 
of speech. However, in agreement 
with the second principle of speech 
storage mentioned above, the price in 
computational complexity for LPC is 
prohibitive in small-scale use. Con- 
verting a few seconds of PCM speech 
to LPC can take several minutes on a 
large computer, and converting LPC 
back to PCM is equally complex 
without the aid of a dedicated VLSI 



192 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



More than a 
personal computer. 




It's an accountant, word 
processor and financial 
planner. Now for only 
$3,390 per user* 

No matter what business or profession you're in, ALTOS® 
has a desktop business computer system that can improve 
your efficiency— at a price that won't put you out of business. 

For example, a typical Altos business solution includes 
integrated software applications for accounting (including a 
self-paced, step-by-step, built-in tutorial), word processing and 
financial planning. They're all easy to learn and use. 

You can also choose from hundreds of other applications for 
attorneys, dentists, doctors, insurance agents, manufacturers, 
pharmacists, realtors and many more. 

Altos systems are designed to grow as your business grows. 
You can start with a single user and add more users on the same 
system. Plus you can link hundreds together with a network. 

And when you're ready, built-in features let you add more 
storage capacity, peripherals and communications— even elec- 
tronic mail and appointment scheduling. 

All of our systems are backed by responsive, nationwide 
service and support through the Customer Service Division of 
TRW, Inc. 

So if your business or profession demands more than a 
personal computer can deliver, talk to Altos. Call, write or clip 
the coupon today for a free brochure and the name of your 
local Altos representative. 



Packed with more 
value for business 

D Please tell me more about the hundreds of uses for an Altos 
desktop business computer system. 

□ My application is 

D Please have an Altos representative contact me. 

Name Title 

Company Tel 

Address _ 

City/State/Zip 

Mail to: Altos Computer Systems. Attn: Marketing Services. 
2641 Orchard Park Way. San Jose. CA 9S134 



BT-7 



800-538-7872 (In Calif.. 800-662-6265) 



'Complete five user Altos system for S3.390 per user or $16,950. Price approximate and may vary in your area. Packaged system includes an Altos 586-10 hard disk computer with the XENIX "/UNIX " 
operating system with the Altos Business Command Menu Interface. " five terminals, and the ALTOS ACCOUNTANT (with the built-in ALTOS COMPUTER TUTOR), ALTOS EXECUTIVE WORD 
PROCESSOR, and ALTOS EXECUTIVE FINANCIAL PLANNER applications. Price does not Include printer, cables. Installation, taxes, additional training and maintenance. 

ALTOS is a registered trademark of Altos Computer Systems. XENIX is a trademark of Microsoft and is a microcomputer implementation of the UNIX operating system. UNIX Is a trademark of 
Bell Laboratories. ?1983 Altos Computer Systems 



COMPUTER SYSTEMS 



Circle 20 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 193 



(very-large-scale integrated) circuit. 
But recent information coming from 
semiconductor manufacturers indi- 
cates that custom LPC encoders may 
soon be available. These should revo- 
lutionize computer speech technol- 
ogy. 

Rationale for Choice 

Having ruled out LPC, during the 
development of Voice Lab I experi- 
mented with all three of the time-do- 
main encodings I've mentioned. Fi- 
nally, I settled on simple PCM be- 
cause the analysis routines I planned 
to use require it. And because my pri- 
mary use of Voice Lab was to be for 
speech analysis, I saw no point in 
using another encoding when the 
PCM encoding would have to be re- 
constructed before analysis could 
begin. 

If you wish to use the Voice Lab 
units chiefly for speech synthesis, and 
storage is at a premium, I recommend 
using ADPCM encoding. (However, 
if you also want to do analysis, the 
routines for it must be modified.) 



11 


TWO 


2000 


2 


TO 


2000 


3 


TOO 


2000 


4 


THREE 


2300 


5 


FOUR 


1500 


6 


FOR 


1500 


7 


FIVE 


1500 


8 


SIX 


2800 


9 


SEVEN 


2000 



Table 3: Partial vocabulary-directory 
listing produced by the Directory op- 
tion. The current vocabulary is 
displayed in three columns: the left- 
hand column contains an index to the 
vocabulary word, the middle column 
contains the word, and the right-hand 
column displays the size in bytes of the 
encoded speech segment stored for that 
word. 



Don't be discouraged from experi- 
menting with other speech-encoding 
techniques. Only the digital-filtering 
and analysis units in Voice Lab as- 
sume that data in the speech buffer 
will be PCM-encoded. The speech-re- 
cording and speech-synthesis func- 



tions of Voice Lab will work well 
with any arbitrary encoding (includ- 
ing frequency-based approaches). 

Voice Dictionary Unit 

The Voice Dictionary (Voice Dic- 
tionary) unit provides all speech- 
storage and speech-retrieval services. 
Voice Dictionary places speech 
bursts, read from the speech buffer, 
into a dictionary keyed with an ar- 
bitrary string. It can then retrieve that 
speech burst, inserting it back into the 
speech buffer, when presented with 
the appropriate string. The unit also 
provides some dictionary-mainten- 
ance services to remove unwanted 
words, examine the vocabulary, and 
erase the entire dictionary. 

Although the dictionary is the 
bookkeeper of sound and text for 
Voice Lab, it doesn't have any 
knowledge of the encoding to the 
speech buffer. It just manages a 
warehouse of sounds on the disk. 
This vocabulary database is con- 
tained in a file called VOICE.DICT 
kept on a disk. The typical retrieval 



JUST SAY THE PASSWORD 

TO GET 1200 BAUD, 

PROGRAMMABLE ALTO DIAL, FOR $449* 



• 300/1200 Baud 

• Auto Dial, Telpac™ software available 

• Full or Half Duplex 

• Audio Phone Line Monitor 

• Two- Year Limited Warranty 
Password™ is the new USR™ friendly mo- 
dem, designed for use with any small 
computer on the market today. We have 
compressed into its miniature (shown ac- 
tual size) case every operating feature for 
unattended high speed telecomputing. With 
auto dial/answer and auto mode/speed se- 
lect there is little to do but turn it on. So com- 
pact it mounts on the computer with 
Velcro®; when you carry your computer you 
can pocket your Password. So brilliantly 
conceived it achieves all this with just 12 
tiny integrated circuits (a presage of long 
trouble-free service). If your dealer doesn't 
know the Password yet, write or call for com- 
plete specifications. 

•Suggested list for Password complete with power, phone, 
RS232 interface cables. TetpacTM software optional extra, 
$79. 

Password. Telpac, USR logo and the U.S. Robotics corporate name 

are all trademarks of U.S. Robotics Inc. 



■■■■■■^.llvl 

551 




U.S. ROBOTICS INC 

1123 WEST WASHINGTON 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60607 
(312) 733-0497 
Circle 427 on inquiry card. 




Pro-NetSystcm 

Professional Local Area Network ^M 




What's Your Connection 

Being well connected is not Really that 
Difficult! Make the Connection. The Right 
Connection. The PRO-NET from SWI International 
Systems, links up to 128 of the most popular 
microcomputers at distances over 5,000 feet with 
speeds at 4 million bits per second, "for under 
$300.00 per computer." 

Select the multi-user operating system that suits ( 

you best, featuring Password Security, Turnkey 

Command, File and Record Locking, Spooling to common 

Printers, Electronic Mail, Educational Languages, and 

more. ..much more. 

Take advantage of the most flexible networking topology for 

your business, professional or educational environment. 

PRO-NET SYSTEM also allows for the most flexible use of popular 

mass storage available from a large variety of suppliers. 

The PRO-NET SYSTEM emphasizes computing solutions at an 
affordable cost. Features found in systems costing far more are 
standard components of the PRO-NET SYSTEM making networking a 
cost-effective necessity. Increased productivity from top level manage- 
ment to the department level is part of the PRO-NET SYSTEM approach to 
distributed computing power, centralized storage, and better communi- 
cations The PRO-NET SYSTEM provides the missing element to make your 
personal computer a versatile distributed networking communication solution 



v/*|%| international Specialist in Networking 

J\A# I SYSTEMS ™ For Microcomputers 

See the PRO-NET SYSTEM at your local SWI INTERNATIONAL SYSTEMS dealer. 

7741 East Gray Road, Suite 2 • Scottsdale. Arizona 85260-3496 . 602 998-3986 Telex: 467580 



Circle 391 on inquiry card. 



1 

one 

won 

2 

two 

too 

to 

3 

three 

4 

four 

for 

fore 

5 

five 

6 

six 

7 

seven 

8 

eight 

ate 

9 

nine 



zero 

A 

B 

be 

bee 

C 

sea 

see 

D 



E 

F 

G 

H 

I 

eye 

aye 

J 

K 

L 

M 

N 

O 

oh 

P 

pea 

Q 

queue 

R 

are 

hour 

our 

S 

T 

tee 

tea 

U 

you 

ewe 

V 

W 

X 

ex 



Y 

why 

Z 

again 

and 

& 

at 

@ 

cancel 

check 

down 

equal 

error 

go 

greater 
> 

have 

hi 

high 

in 

is 

it 

less 

< 

minus 

of 

off 

on 

yes 

no 

know 



over 

/ 

percent 

% 

plus 

+ 

please 

ready 

write 

right 

than 

that 

times 

* 

time 

try 

this 

code 

text 

what 

how 



Table 4: Sample base vocabulary for use with Voice Lab. 



time for a given task is determined by 
the disk latency of your particular 
computer. On my system, which has 
reasonably quick 8-inch drives, I find 
the speech-retrieval time quite 
satisfactory. With Winchester-tech- 
nology hard disks or semiconductor- 
memory disk emulators, response is 
nearly instantaneous. 

As table 3 indicates, the dictionary 
is structured to handle homonyms: 
words that, while spelled differently 
and having different meanings, have 
the same sound when spoken. The 
words "two," "to," "too," and the 
numeral 2 are examples of a hom- 
onym set. Rather than repetitively 
storing speech samples for each of 
these in the database, the dictionary 
allows many words or strings of char- 
acters to cause the same digitized 
speech sample to be output. 

The extent to which this tech- 



nique can be used is not always ob- 
vious. Sometimes you can use near- 
homonyms, words that are not quite 
proper homonyms, with acceptable 
results, if you are willing to tolerate 
some mispronunciation. Examples of 
improper homonyms, which sur- 
prised me with their acceptability, are 
those in the group R, are, our, and 
hour and the pair M and am. 

In my implementation of Voice Lab 
using PCM encoding, I find that a 
typical word requires between 1200 
and 2500 bytes of storage. As such, a 
dictionary of minimum practical size 
(100 words) requires 350 blocks of 
disk storage in the p-System. 

Voice Messages Unit 

The Voice Messages (Voice msg) 

unit is responsible for the conversion 
to speech of text represented by 
ASCII (American National Standard 



Code for Information Interchange) 
characters. This process is called text- 
to-speech synthesis. 

There are two techniques common- 
ly used in commercial equipment to 
synthesize speech from English text. 
In one approach, the sounds of each 
word that the computer can speak are 
recorded digitally and stored. When 
the computer reads the incoming 
ASCII character stream, it assembles 
the characters into whole words. It 
then looks up each word in the stored 
vocabulary list, and when it finds the 
word among those it "knows," it 
plays back the appropriate digital 
recording. The process is analogous 
to a person's learning to read by the 
"look-say" method (the learning 
method made famous by the "Sally, 
Dick, and Jane" reading primers of 
the early 1960s). 

The second technique is called 
phoneme synthesis. In this approach, 
the ASCII character stream is ana- 
lyzed and broken into groups of let- 
ters assumed to represent particular 
speech sounds within a word, the 
phonemes. Each phoneme is inter- 
preted according to a set of rules and 
its corresponding sound is pro- 
nounced. Phoneme synthesis is simi- 
lar to a person's learning to read by 
the phonics method. 

Each approach has its advantages 
and disadvantages. The stored-list 
approach takes more space to store 
the speech information, and there will 
always be words that cannot be 
found, regardless of the dictionary 
size. In such cases, the word must be 
spelled out or skipped entirely. On 
the other hand, words that are found 
in the stored list will always be cor- 
rectly pronounced and accented, 
whereas the phonetic approach always 
takes a stab at pronouncing words, 
but often pronounces them wrong 
(although this occurs less than 5 per- 
cent of the time for good translators). 

For the sake of simplicity, I 
adopted the stored-list approach. 
While this technique limits the size of 
the computer's speaking vocabulary, 
Voice Lab compensates for this by 
allowing the vocabulary to be easily 
tailored to a specific application con- 
text. My experience with application 
programs led me to conclude that the 



196 July 19«3 © BYTE Publications Inc 



ROCKY MTN. MICRO, INC. 

HIGH TECHNOLOGY PRODUCTS & SERVICE FROM THE HIGH COUNTRY 



IBM-PC HARDWARE 



QUADRAM CORPORATION 
OUADCHROME RGB Color Monitor 

THE High Resolution Monitor for your 

IBM-PC 100% IBM Compatible, includes 

cable 690 by 480 Resolution 16 colors 
QUAOBOARD Multifunction Board 

Full expandability from 64K to 256K 

Parallel Printer Port 

Asynchronous RS232 Serial Modem Port 

64K starts at $299.00 

QUADCOLOR I IBM Color Card . CALL 

QUADCOLOR II 640 by 200 CALL 

QUADCOLOR III 640 by 400 CALL 

MICROFAZER Printer Spooler 

Print Buttering trom 8K to 512K 

Any Printer/Computer Combination 

Why wait on your printer? 

Prices (w/power supply) Stan at $139.00 
SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY 
ST206 Half-Height Hard Disk Drive 

Proven Performance 11.000 MTBF 

5. 10 & 15 Meg available 

Shipped with DTC Controller 

OUTSTANDING VALUE CALL 

QUME'S SUPERIOR HALF-HEIGHT 320K 
DRIVE — QumeTrak 142 features Ceramic 
RAfV Head, Advanced Steel Band Head 
Positioner & 4 Drive Daisy Chain 

capability CALL 

TANDON TM 100-2 320K Drive . . . $249 00 
TANDON SLIM-LINE" TM50-2. . $259 00 



STB SYSTEMS SUPER RIO" CARD 

The Truly ultimate IBM add-on 
Eight + Functions on one card 

•64-256K (786K w/opt "PiggyBack " card) 

'Two RS232 port.', one parallel 

"Clock/calendar ' Game Port 

■Printer Buffer ' RAM disk 
Simply The Best ;.,..., .CALL 



* 

■"A" FOURTH DIMENSION 
MICRO SCI 



MILE-HIGH SAVER 



SUPER BUY ON SUPER DRIVES 



COLUMBIA DATA SYSTEMS 
Enhanced IBM Alternative 

IBM Hardware & Software compatability 
in a Multi-User 16 Bit computer. 128K 
two serial ports, one parallel port and 8 
expansion slots Runs MS— DOS, CP/M 86 
or MP/M 86 OASIS— 16. MS— DOS 
"Super-Pak" includes Macro-Assembler. 
Diagnostics. Basica w/colorgraphics 
PLUS Perfect Writer. Speller. Calc and 
File, Fast Graph & Space 

Commanders CALL 

COLUMBIA PORTABLE -COLUMBIA 
1600— V.P. — 256K. 2 320K Slim Line Drives 
9" monitor, comes w/MS— DOS Super pak 
CALL 



• 

itO^Q HO Apple^ranklm 

f£«)7iUV Compatible -JL. 

APPLE/FRANKLIN HARDWARE 

FRANKLIN ACE'S-THE APPLE II+/IIE ALTERNATIVES 



ACE 1000 (64K) 

Upper & Lower Case 

Automatic Key Repeat NOW 

Numeric Keypad WITHCOLOHI 

Larger power supply with fan 

Call for Special package pnce 



ACE 1200 (128K) 

Move over HE: 

Has everything the 1000 has plus 

Z80 Card (CP/M) + 80 columns 

Built-in drive, built-in color 

Serial & Parallel Interfaces $CALL 



KEY TRONIC, INC. 

Enhanced Word Processing Keyboard 
Model KB— 5150 

Familiar key placement for touch- 
typists. Key legends instead of 
obscure symbols . . $19900 



CALL FOR LOW IBM SOFTWARE PRICES 



IBM-PC SOFTWARE 

TOP 10 HIT PARADE 



MULTIPLAN $206.95 

DEADLINE $37 95 

TEMPLE OF APSHAI $29.95 

SNOOPER TROOPS I & II $33.95 

VISICALC $203 95 



ZORK I. II, III '.. $29.95 

STORY MACHINE $26 95 

FROGGER $26.95 

1. 2. 3 LOTUS $495.00 

FLIGHT SIMULATOR $37.95 



RANA SYSTEMS - ELITE SERIES 

300% Faster than Disc II 

Elite I (up to 163K) $289 00 

Elite II & III CALL 

Use any w/Fourth Dim. Cont Card $5500 

VISTA COMPUTER CO. INC. 

PRESENTS THE V1200: 
Removable mass storage for your Apple' 
6 meg (formatted) per 5 disc cartridge 
Comes complete w/dnve. cable, controller 
software and one 6 meg Vistapak cartridge 
All for only $1195 00 

RAM EXPANSION 

Divong (1SK) $49 95 

Microsoft (16K) $75 00 

Microtek (BAM 16K) $73 00 

SO COLUMN CARDS 

ALS. Smarterm II CALL 

Vldex, VideoTerm . . $249.00 

VideoTerm ComboPkg . . . $265 00 
Vldex, Vision 80 $239 CIO 

PRINTER INTERFACES/BUFFERS 

Microtek, RV611C par $63 00 

Apple Dumpling 16K $160 00 

Oranse Micro, Grappler- $119.00 



PRINTER INTERFACES/BUFFERS (CONT) 

P.P. Microbuffer II $209 00 

VIOEX PSIO Dual Function Card 

Modem and Printer Ports $169 00 

MISCELLANEOUS 
ALF PRODUCTS. INC. 8088 Processor: 
Powerful "IBM" chip on a card: CALL 
ANTI-STATIC TOUCH MATS $89 00 

Kensington, System Saver $72 00 

Kratt, Joystick $46.00 

Paddles $32.00 

MAR Enterprises 

Super Mod Universal $55 00 

Sup'r Fan ... $38.00 

Microsoft 

Z80 with CP/M $245 00 

Softcard Premium Pack $495 00 

Softcard Plus (Franklin) $445 00 

T 4 G Products 

Joystick $42 00 

Game Paddles $28 00 

Select-a-port $42 00 

Trak-Ball $47 00 

Vldex, Enhancer II $l 19 00 

Function Strip . $62 00 

Enhancer. Rev 6 $99 00 



HIGH TECH OF THE MONTH 



•* WHAT'S NEW FOR IBM-PC •• 

• 

• 

* 
••*••••••••••••••*••• ••••••••••••••^•••••* 



"*■ QUADRAM CORP. PRESENTS: 

Y QUADLINK 

Run Apple software on your IBM plus switch back & forth between Apple & IBM 

• programs at will Certified to run at least 90% of Apple software. Of course you 
can use your IBM drives, and write to disc DOS 3.3 $CALL 



STAND-BY POWER SYSTEMS 

A Meirick Inc. Stand-By System gives affordable power loss protection for your computer a 

and the continuity of power for your computer when normal power fails. It supplies 117 « 

volts AC power from a 12 volt DC battery. ^A 

#210-200 watts/12 DC to 117 AC $199.00 ~W 

•410-400 watts/12 DC to 117 AC $299.00 i 

Power Output Protection Unit — filter & surge protector $115.00 p 



C-ITOH 

Prowrlter I — par ■ • CALL 

Prownter II — para CALL 

Starwriter $1195 00 

EPSON 

FX-80 CALL 

IDS, Prism :,..:... CALL 

IDS, Microprism $559 00 

OKIDATA 

82A $419.00 

83A $706 00 

84 par , $1055.00 

92 par $539 00 

93 par CALL 

STAR MICRONICS 

Gemini 10 .^: :,..... CALL 

OUANTEX 

7030 (Dot Letter Quality) .... $1695 00 

LETTER QUALITY 

BROTHER HR— 1 $884 00 

BYTEWRITER (W/KEYBOARD!) $599 00 

C— ITOH 

Starwriter F-10— 40 par 1249.00 

NEC 

7710. 7730 $2291 00 

3550 IBM plug-in $1899 00 

COLOR INK JET 

CANON A1210 7 color 30 shades $635.00 



MONITORS 



BMC. 
NEC. 



AMOEK, 300 Amber $159 00 

300 Green $155 00 

310. A.G— IBM including cable $179 00 

Color I composite CALL 

Color I! RGB (IBM compatible) $744 00 

Green Med Res $88 00 

1201 Hi— Res Green , $169.00 

1201 Color (composite) $329 00 

1203 RGB (IBM compatible) ,.'.... $659 00 

QUADRAM RGB OUADCHROM (IBM) $599 00 

TAXAN Amber $129 00 

Green $119 00 

USI Amber Hi — Res $155 00 

ZENITH Green Med Res ,.. .. $118 00 

DISKETTES & STORAGE 



ELEPHANT 10 each 5'. 

10each5'. 
VERBATIM 10 each 5 

10 each 5'.. 
ZIMAG 12 each 5'-. 

LIBRARY CASE, 5 



SS'DD $19 95 

DS'DD $29 95 

SS/DD $25 95 

DS/DD $36.95 

SS/DD $19 95 

$2 50 



DISK BANK, 5' . interlock & swivel $5.50 

DISK FILE, 5'. Elephant "Trunk $21.95 

ALANTIC COMPUTER FURNITURE: Entire line at Huge 
Savings. CALL tor price & specs,. 



VISIT OUR 
WAREHOUSE SHOWROOM 

COMMODORE 64 

"ADVANCED COMPUTING AT AN AFFORDABLE PRICE" 
Features 64K, Super graphics & music. Direct connect to 

your color TV $399.00 

Plus optional Z80 tor CP/M business software CALL 

Disk Drives & all other peripherals CALL 

Gothmog's Liar "The Ultimate in Adventure Games" $39.95 
Busicalc ■:... $59 95 Oatasertes $69.00 

MODEMS 

ANCHOR AUTOMATION 

Signalman Mark 1 $83.00 

HAYES 

Smartmodem 300 $211 00 

Smartmodem 1200 $529 00 

Micromodem II $275 00 

NOVATION 

CAT (Acoustic) $153 00 

D— CAT $16800 

J— CAT $123.00 

Auto Cat $219.00 

Apple Cat II $27300 

212 Module (1200 baud opt for Apple Cat II) ... $354.00 
212 Apple Cat II (1200 baud) $626 00 



Rocky Mountain Micro, Inc. WR* 1 .Afin.ftR9.7ft1 Q 

MAIL ORDERS: 10890 E. 47th Ave. DESK: l^SHr"?,?.* JSAH 



IN COLORADO CALL: 303-371-2430 



terms and conditions: Denver Colorado 80239 

• aii prices reflect a !■;% cash discount uoll,cl ' uululouu uvtoo TECH. ASSIST. 4 CUSTOMER SERVICE CALL 303-371-2430 

• Personal checks (allow 10 days to clear), VISA. MasterCard, wire transfers, include telephone number 

• COD orders accepted — $300 maximum — $10 surcharge • All products factory sealed with manufacturer's warranty 

• POs accepted from qualified customers • Approval needed on all returns • 10% restocking charge unless defective. 

• olus shipping • All Colorado residents add 3'>% sales tax. City and County of Denver residents additional 3% sales ta> 

• Shipping Costs: $2.50 minimum; 2% UPS Ground. UPS Blue Label — rate quoted at time of order. 

• All prices subject to change without notice • Lease/financing available 

• Export orders accepted ffom foreign dealers. Contact F L Kiemberg & Co TWX 91Q-94Q-2S1 7 

• Telephone Order Desk Hours 8 AM to 6 PM. Monday through Friday; 10 AM to 4 PM Saturday. Mountain Standard Time CIRCLE 352 ON INQUIRY CARD FOR COMPLETE LINE CARD 



YOUR SATISFACTION IS OUR 

BEST ADVERTISING! 
WE SERVICE WHAT WE SELL 



Circle 352 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE luly 1983 197 







AA|f* s 
IIP** 



m.-> 



Figure 3a: The waveform for my utterance of the word "two" with no filtration. Corresponding to a plot of the function V(t) over time, 
where V(t) is the voltage of the incoming analog audio signal, it graphically depicts the sound-pressure variation at the microphone, over 
a 400-ms (millisecond) period while the word "two" is being spoken. This graph was produced on an Epson MX-70 dot-matrix printer 
and then reduced to about one third its original size. 



-*"**?$ 



ij#M 




Figure 3b: Utterance of the word "two" after the PCM samples have been processed by a low-pass digital filter. 



vocabulary for a given set of applica- 
tion programs is fixed and rarely ex- 
ceeds a couple of hundred words. 

The Voice Messages unit has two 
entry points. One is for speaking a 
single word, and the other is for pick- 
ing words out of a character string 
and pronouncing them. In the event 
that the list does not contain the 
word, Voice Messages attempts to 
spell the word aloud to the listener. 

In designing Voice Lab, I assumed 
that the basic word list would contain 
at least all the letters and digits. If you 
don't put at least these entries in, the 
Voice Messages unit will display on 
the computer's video screen the char- 
acter code it cannot find an entry for, 
followed by a question mark. (This is 
normally a debugging feature.) 

Punctuation marks and special 
characters are isolated and treated 
like any other character string. Thus, 
the occurrence of " + " in the input 
can evoke the utterance "plus" from 
the computer. Punctuation marks that 
are not found in the stored list are 

198 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



simply ignored, so that commas, semi- 
colons, etc., do not clutter up the out- 
put. You can add entries of approxi- 
mately 100 ms (milliseconds) of silence 
to the list for these symbols, thereby 
producing more lifelike spacing. 

Table 4 contains the root vocabu- 
lary I have compiled over a period of 
time. When I begin to build a custom 
vocabulary for an application, I start 
with this basic list and add words and 
terms specific to my application. 

Voice Display Unit 

The Voice Display (Voice dsp) 

unit contains an interactive utility 
routine that displays graphic informa- 
tion about the contents of the speech 
buffer. The information can be routed 
either to a printer or to the video 
display. 

The program, as listed here, is con- 
figured to operate with an Epson 
MX-70 dot-matrix printer. Portions of 
the program that require modification 
to work with other popular graphics 
dot-matrix printers are commented on 



in the source code. Variations of the 
unit have worked with both the C. 
Itoh Electronics Prowriter and the 
Epson MX-80. 

Three different plots are available: 
speech -waveform reconstruction, en- 
ergy and zero-crossing counts, and 
spectral energy. 

Figures 3, 4, and 5 are samples of 
the output produced by the printer. 
Each of the plots provides a different 
insight concerning the speech. 

Figure 3a shows the waveform for 
my utterance of the word "two." This 
corresponds to plotting the function 
V(t) over time, where V(f) is the 
voltage of the incoming analog audio 
signal. It graphically depicts the 
sound-pressure variation at the micro- 
phone, over a 400-ms period, while 
the word "two" is being spoken. 

Notice that the beginning of the plot 
is characterized by very rapid and jag- 
ged signal activity. This is typical of 
speech sounds called fricatives, which 
are unvoiced (or voiceless) sounds, 
akin to whispers. The only sound is 
Text continued on page 202 



Who can take you into 
the 3270 environment? 

CLEQ 






The CLEO Model 3270 H converter adds flexibility to 
your ASCII terminals and microcomputers by making 
them compatible with a 3270 environment. Regardless 
of manufacturer, the 3270 Cluster Emulation Firm- 
ware in CLEO allows your asynchronous ASCII termi- 
nals to communicate with BSC and SDLC mainframes. 

The Model 3270 H converter handles up to eight ASCII 
terminals (on-site or remote from them) and may be 
multi-dropped with other cluster controllers to a 
host computer. It alsocan be used in dial-up and leased- 
line models. 

To transform your terminal into a powerful distrib- 
uted processing system, contact Phone 1, Inc., 461 



North Mulford Road, Rockford. IL 61107; Phone 
(815)397-8110. 



Standard Features 

• Bisynchronous 3276-2 protocol to 9600 baud 

• SDLC 327 1 - ) 2 protocol 

• Up to eight line cluster activity 

• Selectable control unit address 

• User installed program for various CRTs 

• 3278 emulation for ASCII CRTs 
3287 emulation for ASCII printers 



Circle 73 on Inquiry card. 



^ SAVE 
THIS AD 
IT IS YOUR 
CATALOG 

WD CHANGES MONTHLY 







Computer Exchange — The Supply Center for the IBM-PC or XT 



SOFTWARE 



BUSINESS 



ASHTON-TATE dBasell requiresCP<M-86S128K 

dBase II. requires PC-DOS S 128K 

The F-manciaJ Planner 

dBase II User's Guide by Software Banc 
APPUEO SOFTWARE -reCHNaOGYVersaform 
CONTINENTAL. Tne Home Accountant Plus 

FCM iFiling. Cataloging, Mating) 

Property Management 
DATAMOST Real Estate Investment Program 

Write-On (Word Processor Program) 
EAGLE SOFTWARE Money Decisions 
HOWARDSOFT Real Estate Analyzer II 
INFORMATION UNLIMITED. Easywrrler II (a WPS) 

Easyspeter II (88K Words) 
EasyfSerlaDBMS) 
INNOVATIVE SOFTWARE. T l M III la DBMS) 

* INSOFT DataDesgnlapowertuleasytouseDBMS) 
ISM MatheMagic 

* LOTUS 1*3 
MICROCRAFT Requires CP-M-86 

Legal Billing & Time Keeping— Verdict 
Protessional Billing & Tune Keeping — BiHkeeper 

* MICRO LAB Tne Tax Manager 

MICROPRO. WordStar' plus tree WordStar Training Manual 
Mail Merge ^ 
SpeHStar" 

3 Pak Word S Mail 8 Spell, above 3 
2Pak. WordStar " + SpeHStar* 
mfoStar" 
Report Star" 
MICROSOFT.Multiplan.il MSOOS 

MuWoolWord MSOOS 

MulUool Word wtti Mouse MSOOS 
Murrjtooi. Financial MSDOS 
MuMooL Budget MSOOS 

NORTH AMERICAN BUS SYSTEM. Tne Answer 
PBL CORPORATION. Personal Investor 
PEACMTREE SOFTWARE. Peach Pad 4<GL. AR i AP) 
PERFECT SOFTWARE. Perfect Writer- 
Perfect Speller" 
Perfect CsJc" 
Perfect Filer™ 
SELECT WFO.Selecl (a WPS) 
SOFTWARE PUBLISHING. PFS File 

PFS: Report 
SORCIMlSA.SuperCatctl 
SuperWriter 
SpeHguard 
STC. The Creator 
SYNAPSE File Manager 
SYNERGISTIC. Data Reporter 

* VISICORP VisiCalc' 256K 
VisiDex or VisiSchedute. each 
VisiTrend'Plot 
VisiTrte or Desktop Plan I, each 



For the 
IBM-PC or XI 



NEWi 
NEW' 



NEW! 
NEW' 



LIST 
PRICE 
$700 

$700 
$700 
$ 30 
$389 
$ 150 
$ 125 
$495 
$ 130 
$ 130 
$ 150 
$250 
$350 
$225 
$400 
$495 
$ 225 
$ 90 
$495 

$995 
$995 
$250 
$495 
$250 
$250 
$945 
$ 645 
$495 
$350 
$275 
$375 
$475 
S 100 
$ ISO 
$250 
$ 145 
$595 
$389 
$ 189 
$295 
$595 
$596 
$ 140 
$ 125 
$295 
$ 395 
$ 195 
$300 
$ 150 
$250 
$250 
$250 
$300 
$300 



OUR 
PRICE 
$439 
$439 
$439 
$2» 
$265 
$112 
$85 
$329 
$8) 
$89 
$129 
$189 
$259 
$149 
$299 
$369 
$169 
$69 
$329 

$469 
$469 
$189 
$269 
$129 
$129 
$449 
$349 
$269 
$199 
$199 
$275 
$350 
$75 
$115 
$189 
$99 
$396 
$219 
$129 
$129 
$259 
$339 
$95 
$85 
$199 
$289 
$129 
$195 
$99 
$169 
$179 
$199 
$219 
$239 



UTLTY 



1983 CE SOFTWARE AWARD: 

Copy i! PC oy Central Pant Software is the oes! CE software buy o! 1983 Rwillcopy 
more COPY PROTECTED software and faster than any other backup system Unlike 
other copiers .1 makes an exact dupbtateotyouronginai and rt odes tOTKventicatcn of 
copy [Jocumentatjon is exceBent . 
* CENTRAL POINT Copy II PC BawipanoUSiity NEW $ 40 $35 

CornX Fastrak'.RAMDiskemijtalorandprlnterspooler 
program. Works on any PC DOS version or 

RAM Card Menu Dmren NEW! $ 100 $ 59 

DIGITAL RESEARCH .ConcunentCP'M-86 $ 350 $236 

CB ASIC 86 $ 200 $135 

CPM86 $ 60 $49 

HAYES. Smartcom II $119 $89 

MICROCOM.Microleminal $100 $65 

MICROSTUF. Crosstalk $ 195 $129 

NAGY SYSTEMS Copy PC. Back anoutifes $ 35 $25 

NOREUOATA, System Back $ 50 $39 

NORTON. Norton Utilities 1 4 oowertui programs 3dtsks $ 80 $ 65 



HOME & EDUCATIONAL 



EPYX/ Automated Simulations. Temple otApshai 

Oil Barons 
ARMONK Executive Suite 
BPISYSTEMS. Personal Accounting 
BRO0ER8UND. Apple Panic 
CONTINENTAL, the Home Accountant Plus 

* DATAMOST. Pig Pen or Space Strike, each 
DAVIDSON. The Speed Reader 
INFOCOM Deadline 

ZorklorZorkllorZorklll.eacn ■ 

* INSOFT WordTrixorOuolnxorMistrix. each 
MICROSOFT, F!igfi!5imulator(by Sub-Logic) 
SURRA ON-LINE, Golf ChaHleng 

Ulysses & The Golden Fleece 
PBL CORP., Personal Investor 
SENTIENT.Cyborg 

SIRIUS, Conquest of Call to Arms, each 
SIR-TECH, Wizardry. Sceneno #1 
SPINNAKER. Snooper Troops *1or«2,each 

Story Machine or Face Maker , each 
STRATEGIC. ttieWarpFaclor 



NEW $ 100 
$ 40 
$ 195 
$ 30 
$ 150 



NEW! 
NEW 
NEW! 



30 
75 
50 
40 
36 
50 
25 
S 35 
$ 145 
$ 35 
$ 30 
$ 60 
$ 45 
$ 35 



$29 

$75 
$27 
$139 
$22 
$112 
$22 
$ 59 
$39 
$29 
$29 
$35 
$25 
$25 
$99 
$25 
$23 
$40 
$36 
$25 
$39 



IBM is a trademark of IBM Corporation. 

IBM-PC 

System Includes 
Two 320K Disk Drives by Cf 

90 Day Warranty By Us 

Call For Details And 
Configurations 



1 




] 


1 


IBM. 


A 






r 


ll_ y 


1 ^p^ss^^s^B^B^^nsss!) | 



for the 

IBM-PC or XT 
LIST OUR 

MEMORY CHIP KITS, 64K addon to youi memory cards 9 chips 

2Q0NS.testedandburned-in.9Odaywanan1y. $ 150 $ 49 

■ 16K, 200 NS4t16,9Cttip Set, Tested and 

Burned-in. 90 Day Warranty $ 30 $ 16 



HARDWARE 



Combo Plus, 64K wasync para & dock/cat 
Above Combo Phs, I26K.SVP/C 
AboveCdmbo Plus, 256K, &P/C 

CorTiX 192KRAMCardwlttiFastrak-RAMdiskemulator 
and printer scooiei sofiwaie 2 YearWairanty 
256KRAMCardwithFastrak" Same as above 
CURTIS, PC Pedestal " tor Display on PC 

9 Foot Cable for IBM Keyboard (emends 3' to 9') 
Key Tronic, KB5t50,SlandaidTypewnterkey locations 
IMIfOfSCfSCT M" RAM Card w Parity 
IVllV^nV/dClr I !28KHAMCardw Parity 
256K RAM Card w-Panty 
MB I Monle':aix>«KFwF.jnction,'toll)0oK) 



$395 


$295 


$495 


$37$ 


$ 695 


$525 


$ 675 


$199 


$750 


$226 


$ 80 


$ 65 


$ 50 


$ 35 


$269 


$179 


$350 


$258 


$525 


$3M 


$875 


$625 


$ 625 


$395 



Big Shie ZSO CPU plus five functions 



$595 $449 



QCS. 

vaULAUIvSri corporaion 

0u3db03rd 64K. expandable to 2S6K 4function board 
Ouadboa/df28K.exrjandablelo?56K.4functinnboaid 
Quadboard 192K . expandable to 256K, 4 function board 

A Ouadboard256K, tour function ooard 
Quad5!2-( ,64Kplussenalporl 
Ouat)512-.256K pits serial port 
Ouad5!2 - .512K plus sertal port 
Ouadcolorl 

■ Quadlink.lBMIoADpellLii* 

Microtazer, w/Copy. PartPar, 8K, #MP8 w/Power Supply 
Microfazet, w/Copy. Par/Par, 64K, #MP64 w.Po*er Supply 
Mcrotazer,*Copy,Par/Par,128K. fMPI 28 w/Power Supply 
Microtazer, Snap-on, 8K, PariPar, Epson, #ME8. w/Power Supply 
Mwofazer, Srap«i,64K, Par/Par, Epson, #ME64, WPwr. Supply 
A , IMicrota2e^3reexpanrjabierwcripylo5!2t';j(Snap<)nto64Ki 
Tjl ^ LL ,... f__ tSTMATEBoard, 64K 

lecmar inc. isTMATE8oa.diaK 

1ST MATE Board. 256K 
TG PRODUCTS. Joystick 



DRIVES 



AMOEK,3'Ou8tRcppyDrive.5l)0K,PCComr«ljt* $899 $7 75 

Control Data or landon 

DISK DRIVES, Qoubkj Sided 3601W20K. Same as now supplied 



$295 
$345 
$386 

$42$ 
$ 275 
$440 
$875 
$235 
$530 
$119 
$236 
$345 
$145 
$236 

$299 

$349 
$439 

$ 49 



teach $529 $239 

2«mons $ 529 $ 229 

$395 $1» 

5-6MB $1995 $139$ 

10-I2M8 $2395 $1999 

15-19MB $2795 $1995 

21 -27MB $3295 $2599 

32-40MB $3995 $3199 

DSI Power Supply (lor older PCI $ 200 $ 159 

TapsBackupUtat Call 

OlherOavongHDProducisinSlock Can 

MAYNARO.FlofjpyDnveControlBoard.loruptoldnves $ 195 $ 165 

same with Sertal Port $325 $235 

samewilhParalfeiPorl $ 275 $ 206 



with IBM-PC $ XT. Tested, bumed-in. vVrBi 
installation instructions. 90 day warranty by us. 
Hall Height 360K or 320KOnves, same as above 

INTERNAL Hard Disk, 
rUUQMQ laSw/oPowerSupoty 
•^ -^^w -w^mm atldw/controljer 

Card, etc) 



Portland, Oregon Cash & Carry Outlet. 1 1 507-D S.W. Pacific Highway. Terrace Shop- 
ping Center, Portland, Oregon. Over-the-counter sales only. On 99w between Route 
217 and Interstate 5. Open Monday through Saturday 10-5. Can 245-1020. 



PRINTERS AND ACCESSORIES 

EPSON MX or FX PRINTERS CALL CALL 

|*STARMICRONICS 9x9DotMatnx.!00cps,23K.Gemmi10" $ 499 $349 

9x9DotMatrix.l00cps.23K.Gemiml5' S 649 $ 469 

ANADEX DP8000 Dot Matrix. 120cps Serial* Ceni Paral-F Special S 995 S 395 

l8M-PCtoEpsonor$tarMicronicsCable S 60 $ 35 

Apple Interface ana Cable for Epson or Gemini $ 95 $ 59 

Grappler - by Orange Micro, specify pnntet S 165 $ 119 

AppleGraphicsDumpProgrambyEpson S 16 $ 9 

LETTER QUALITY - OAISY WHEEL PRINTERS 

COMREX.ComriterCR-l.lF.200wpm $1199 $845 

ComnterTractorFeedtorCR-1 $ 118 $ 99 

SMITH-CORONA, TPI Printer specify serial or parallel l/F $ 899 $ 579 

TPI Tractor Feed $ 149 $ 129 

SUPPLIES: Tractor Feed Paper, Ribbois, Heads, Qume Daisy Wheels and Ribbons. 



Q" ifD/M Qfl BUSINESS I SYSTEM SOFTWARE - 
O Or/IVPOU PARTIAL LIST, CALL 






LIST OUR 




PRICE PRICE 


ASHTON-TATE, dBasell 


$ 700 $439 


dBase II User's Guide by Software Banc 


$ 30 $ 20 


INFOCOM. Zork 1 or Zork II or Zork III or Starcross, each 


$ 50 $ 39 


MICROCRAFT, Legal Billing STime Keeping -Verdict 


$995 $ 469 


Prof. Billing & Time Keeping- BiHkeeper 


$ 995 $ 469 


MICROPRO, WordStar' plus tree WordStar Training Manual 


$495 $ 269 


MailMerge™ (Call on 2 Pak, 3 Pak and others) 


$ 250 $ 129 


SpeHStar" 


% 250 $ 129 


3 Pak, Words Mails Spell, 3 above 


S 845 $445 


2 Pak, WordStar'" + MailMerge" + WS Training Manua 


$ 645 $345 


InfoStar NEWI $ 495 $ 269 


ReportStar NEW! $ 350 $ 199 


MICROSOFT a 


$ 275 $ 199 
$ 500 $ 325 


BASIC Compiler 


$ 395 $ 295 


COBOL-80 


$ 750 $ 545 


BASIC-80 


$ 350 $ 275 


muLJsp/muStar-80 


$200 $ 145 


M-Sort-80 


$ 195 $ 145 


Edit-80 


S 120 $ 80 


Macro-80 


$200 $ 145 


PEACHTREE. Mage Wand 


$ 500 $195 


Series4GL,ARorAP,each 


$600 $395 


SeriesS GL, AR, AP or Inv or Pay, each 


$ 750 $496 




MONITORS 




AMOEK.12" Green, #300 


$ 200 $159 


12"Amber,#300A 


$ 210 $ 159 


13' Color 1, Composite 


$449 $359 


13" Color II. RGB, Hi Res (Ap. II, III « IBM-PC) 


$899 $799 


1 3" Color III, RGB, Commercial. (Ap. II, III) 


$ 569 $469 


DVM, Color II or III to Apple II Interface 


$ 199 $ 175 


NEC, t2"Green, Model JBI201M 


$ 249 $ 159 


12" Color, Composlte,ModelJC1212M 


$ 450 $ 349 


PRINCETON.RGBHRes 


$ 795 $ 639 


QUAORAM. Quadchrome 1 2" RGB Color 


$ 795 $ 565 


SANYO, 9 "Green, Model DM51 09 


$200 $ 139 


12"Green, Model DM8112CX 


$ 260 $ 199 


13" Color, Composite, Model DM601 3 


$ 470 $ 349 


TAXAN, RGB Vision I 380 Lines 


$ 399 $ 339 


ZENITH, 12" Green, Model ZVM1 21 


$ 150 $ 99 




MODEMS 




AXLON, Dafalink 1000 Hand Held Communications Terminal 


$399 $299 


HAYES, Micromodem II (for the Apple 11} 


$ 379 $ 275 


Apple Terminal Program for Micromodem II 


$ 100 $ 65 


IBM-PC Smartcom II 


$ 119 $ 89 


Stock Chronograph (RS-232) 


S 249 $ 189 


Stock Smartmodem (RS-232) 


$ 289 $ 225 


Smartmodem 1200 (RS-232) 


$ 699 $ 535 


Micromodem 100 (S-100 bus) 


$ 399 $ 275 


IBM-PC to Modem Cable 


S 39 $ 29 


MICROCOM, Micro Courier for Apple II 


$ 250 $ 125 


Micro Telegram for Apple II 


$250 $ 125 


NOVATION, AppJecat II Modem,300 BAUD 


$389 $269 


212Apple Cat, 1200 BAUD 


$ 725 $599 


SIGNALMAN. Modem MKI (RS-232) 


$ 99 $ 79 


SSM, Transcend 1 for Apple 1 1 Data Comm . 


$ 89 $ 69 


ModemCard for the Apple II 


$ 299 $ 259 




^CORVUS 




A 6 Meg Hard Disk, w/o Interface 
. 1 1 Meg Hard Disk, w/o Interface 


$2395 $1895 


$3195 $2695 


* 20 Meg Hard Disk, w/o Interface 


$4195 $3495 


IBM-PC Interface (IBM DOS), Manual & Cable 


$ 300 $ 239 


Minor built in for easy backup 


$ 790 $ 595 


Apple Interfaces Cable 


$ 300 $ 230 


Other Interfaces, Omni-Net, Constellation, Minor, All in Stock 






■P'/'^B H/P7sr)PnrtahieComnutBr4RKk)adlolBflK 


$ 995 $ 795 


m hftm H/P41CCalculalor 


$ 195 $ 149 


|^/L>fl H/P41CVCafculalorwith2.2KMemory 


$ 275 $ 219 


Full line ol HP 75C and HP41 accessories and software. Call. 






DISKETTES 




CONTROL DATA CORPORATION Certified Top of the Line Diskettes. 


CDC, 100 each, 5-1/4, with ring, SS, DD, 48T (Apple, IBM, etc.) 
lOeacti, 5-1/4, with ring, SS, DD, 48T (Apple, IBM. etc.) 


$ 550 $ 199 


$ 55 $ 25 


10each, 5-1/4, with hng,DS,DD,48T (IBM, H/P,elc.) 
DYSAN, lOeach, 5-1 /4, SS, DD, 48T (Apple, IBM, H/P, etc.) 


$ 75 $ 39 


$ 69 S 39 


1 0each, 5-1/4, DS, DD, 4BT (IBM, H/P, etc.) 


$ 89 $ 49 


MAXELL, 1 each, 5-1/4, MD-1 , SS, SD or SS, DD 


$ 55 $ 35 


GENER1K" DISKETTES 


With jackets, no labels, produced by a top of the line manufacturer. 90 day warranty by us. 


100 each SS.SD 


$ 415 $ 130 


1000 each SS,SD 


$3200 $ 995 


100 each SS,DD 


$ 626 $ 160 


1000 each SS,DD 


$4550 $1200 



/NnnpniuniiiPAruiiTiMi iiinwniM *« *"* P.O.Box 23068, Portland, Cfl 97223 Jnclucte telephone number. AD#974 

ORDERING INFORM AllON AND TcRMb: All items usually in stock. Vfe immediately honor Cashiers Checks, Money Orders, Fortune 1000 Checks and 

Government Checks. Personal or Company Checks allow 20 days to clear. PtoX.O.D. Add 3%for VISA or MC.ForU.S. Mainland, add 3% for shirjping.irisurarx^ar^ 

UPS with $5 minimum. UPS ground is standard so add 3% more for UPS Blue with $1 minimum. Add 12% total for Sl&H for US Postal, APO or FPO with $1 5 minimum. For Hawaii, 

Alaska and Canada, UPS is in some areas only, alt others are Postal so call, wrrte, or Sfjecify PostalToreign orders except Canada for SJ&Har^ 

add 30% or $50 minimum. Prices subject to change and typo errors, so call to verify. All goods are new, include warranty and are guaranteed to work. Due to our low prices, ALL SALES 

ARE FINAL. Call before returning goods for repair or replacement. Orders received with insufficient S,I&H charges will be refunded. ORDER DESK HOURS 8 to6 PST, Monday through 

Fridayand 10 to 4 Saturday. 1 P.M. here is 4 P.M. in New York. 

OUfi REFERENCES. We have been in computers and electronics since 1958, a computer dealer since 1978 and in mail order since 1979. Banks: 1st Interstate Bank, 

(50?) 643-467B, We belong to the Chamber of Commerce (503) 644-01 23, or call Dunn and Bradstreet if you are a subscriber. Computer Exchange is a division of OTech Group, Inc. 

Fastrak'" andGenerik - " are trademarks of CornX Corporation. 



200 BYTE July 1983 



LOW PRICES TO PROFESSIONALS WHO KNOW WHAT THEY WANT AND KNOW HOW TO USE IT. 

cippkz nvne supply center 



EXCESS 

, INVENTORIES J 




HARDWARE 



for Apple II 



RAM EXPANSION 



LIST 
PRICE 

ComX.lorlle.SOcol. MKAdderCard S 295 
16K $ 179 
16K $ 100 
32K $ 249 
64K $ 425 
128K $ 599 
320K $1395 



APPUM64K,40COUWN $1,175 

APPLEIte128K,80COLUMN $1,399 

APPLE lie, STARTER SYSTEM BY APPLE (System*) 

64K and 80 column 

1 Disk II witti controller 

Apple Monitor III 

Monitor Stand J 1.750 

APPLE Hi STARTER SYSTEM BY COMPUTER EXCHANGE 
(SYSTEM Bj Includes 64K/80 Col. Card by Apple or ComX. 

128K and 80 column 

1 Micro-Sci Dme with controller 

Filer, Utility and DOS 3.3 Diskette 

Sanyo 9" Green Monitor 

RF Modulator (for color TV) 

Game Paddles 

Game with color graphics and sound $1,975 
WARRANTY is 100% Parts & Labor for 90 days by us on all above. 
To substitute or delete drive on System B, subtract $245 and 

add drive price. 
To add Mero-Sd A2 Drive to above, add $245. 
To substitute or delete monitor on SystemB, subtract $130 and add 
other monitor price (System M). 



*ComX,RAMCaid,2YrWty. 

* Microsoft HAMCarc 

• Saturn Systems RAM Card 

RAM Card 
RAM Card 
*A«lon RAM Disk System 



$ 399 


$ 169 


$ 179 


$ 35 


S 150 


$ 50 


J 125 


$ 130 


$ 90 



V DEO CARDS 



• ALS.Smartetmll $ 179 

Dirt Cheap Video 64 col. $ 89 

ComX,1orlle,80col/64KAdder $ 295 

Vkta.VideotetmSOcol $ 345 

UrtraTerm S 379 

Sofl Video Switch $ 35 

Enhancer II $ 149 

Function Strip $ 79 

Full Vide* Line Call Up to 35% off 

Vista. Vision SO $ 289 



MISCELLANEOUS 



ALS. The CP'M Card 
Z-Card 
Colorll 

ASTAR RF Modulator 
CCS, Senal Interface 7710A 
Dan Paymar Lower Case Chip 
Don't Ask. DAO 003 S A. Mouth 

* Eastside Wild Card, copier 
Kensington System Saver 
Key Tronic, KB200 keyboard. 

84keys(lorll*) S298 

Kraft joystick IAp II II ■ i $ 65 

PaddlelApli'Hi) $ 50 

MIR. Sup R fan $ 50 

* Microsoft. ZSDSottcard $ 345 

ZSOSoflcardPlus $ 645 

Soflcard Premium Pack $ 695 
Softcard Premium Pack lie $ 495 

* Orange Micro GrappierPius $ 165 
Practical Peripherals 

MBS 8K Senal (Epson] $ 159 

MBP16KPata (Epson) S 159 

UicrobuHer II 16K, (specity) S 259 

Microbutfer II 32K, (specify) $299 
*PCPI,Appli-Catd, Hfeatures 

4Mhz $ 295 

6Mhz $ 375 

RH Electronics, Super Fan II $ 75 

* Saturn Systems Accelerator II S 599 
SSM At 1! Serial Para Interface $ 225 
TG Products. Game Paddles (11 + ) S 40 

Joystick (11 + ) $ 60 

Select-A-Port(ll + ) S 60 

TrakBalllll-i $ 65 

Vloax,PSIO,Para/Ser Interface $229 

WICO, Trackball (An 11/11 + ) $ 90 

Anatog Joystick $ 70 



OUR 
PRICE 
(145 
$39 
$79 
St 69 
$319 
S459 
$795 



St 39 
(69 
$145 
{229 
$279 
$25 
$99 
$ 59 



$299 

$129 
$139 
$25 
$129 
$39 
$85 
$99 
$69 

$196 
( 49 
$39 
$39 
$245 
$459 
$495 



$129 
$129 
$209 
$229 

$235 
$275 
$59 
$449 
$169 
$ 29 
$45 
$45 
$44 
$169 
$61 
$47 



SOFTWARE 

on disk for Apple 11/11 + /HE 



BUSINESS 



Apple Computer, Inc. 

50% off list on Apple Inc. software 
Applied Soft Tech., VersaForm 
Artsci.MagtcWindowll 
Ashton-Tite, dBase II (CP/M) 

Financial Planner 

User's Guide by Software Banc 
BPI Systems, GL, AR. AP. PR or INV, each 

Job Cost 
Broderound. Bank Street Writer 
Continental, GL, AR, AP or PR ea 
Is 



UST 
PRICE 



NEW! $ 150 
$700 
$ 700 
( 30 
$ 395 
$595 
$ 70 
$ 250 
$ 75 
$ 75 
$ 100 
$ 150 



Home Accountant 
FCM (FILE, CAT, MAIL) 
Hayden , Pie Writer ( Specify brd. ) 
Howard Soft, 
Real Estate Analyzer I 
Tax Preparer 
Info, Unlim Easywriter (PRO) 
UK, Letter Perfect w/Mail Merge 

* Micro Craft, (requires Z80CP/M-Card) 

Professional Billkeeper 
Verdict, (Legal Billing) 

• Micro Lab Tax Manager 
Micro Pro, (all require Z80-CP/M Card) 

InfoStar'" 

Report Star™ 

WordStar* + Training Manual 

SpellStat" 

3Pak Word + Mail + SpeUabove 
WordStar' + MailMerge" 2Pak 
Data Star" 
Microsoft, MuHt-Pbtn (CPM or Apple DOS) 

Financial, Muttitcoi ICP M or DOS) $ 100 

EVidgetMuffloollCPWotDOS) 

On-line Screenwriter II 

The Dictionary 

General Manager II 

OsbonWCP. Soft. (Disk and Book) 

Some Common Base Programs 

75 Business, Statistics and Math 

programs for the Apple II 

Practical Basic Programs 

40 more very valuable programs 

beyond 'Some Com Bas Prog" 

Peocrrtrw Requires CP'M & MBastc, 40 columns. 

Series40GLSARS.AP,a!3 $ 595 

Seres 40 lov or Pay each $ 400 

Senes9Text8SpellSMail all 3 $ 595 

Perfect Perfect Writet $ 495 

Perfect Spelter $ 295 

Perfect Wntet/Spelter 2 Pak $ 695 

Perfect Filer $ 595 



$ 195 
$ 225 

$ 175 

$ 150 

$ 995 
$ 995 
$ 180 

$ 495 
$ 350 
$ 495 
$ 250 
$ 250 
$ B45 
$ 645 
$ 295 
$ 275 



$ 150 
$ 130 
NEW! $ 100 
NEW! $ 230 



$ 100 



OUR 
PRICE 

CaH 
$265 
$ 99 
$439 
$439 
$20 
$295 
$435 
$47 
$169 
$49 
$49 
$68 
$99 

$129 
$149 
$119 
$99 

$469 
$469 
$119 

$269 
$199 
$269 
$129 
$129 
$449 
$349 
$159 
St99 
$75 
$115 
$89 
$69 
$155 



Sensible. Sens. Speller, specify version 
* Sikon Valley. Word Handler 
Sof . Sys, Executive Secretary 

Executive Speller 
Software Publishing. PFS: File 

PFS: Report 
PFS: Graph 
Stoneware. DB Master 

DB Utility I or II 
DBMaster3Pak, Special 
vktex, 
Applewrrter II preboot disk 
Visicalc 80 col preboot disk 
Visicak:80colto176Kdisk 
Videoterm Utilities Disk 
VisiCorp. Personal Software. 
Visicalc3.3 
VistFiteorVisiDex.each 



$ 125 

$ 250 
$250 
$ 75 
$ 125 
$ 125 
$ 125 
$ 229 
$ 99 
$ 687 

$ 20 

$ 50 

$ 90 

$ 37 

$ 250 
$ 250 



HOME & EDUCATION 



$275 
$395 
$219 
$129 
$299 



Broderbund, Chopliftet 
BudgeCo.PinballConstt.Set 
Continental. Home Accountant 
OaUmost, Aztec or Zaxxon. each 
Infocom.Zorklorll.each 

Deadline 
Lightning. Mastettype 
Micro Lab Miner 204 9er 
Muse, Castle Wollenstein 
Sierra On-Lme Ulii-na I 

Sottpom(X Rated) 
Sir-Tech, Wizardry 
Sub Logic. Flight Simul 
OTHER BRANDS AND PROGRAMS IN STOCK. CALL, 



$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 

$ 
$ 
$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 60 
$ 35 
$ 50 
$ 34 



35 
40 
75 
40 
40 
50 
40 
40 
30 



THE WORLD'S LARGEST COMPUTER MAILORDER FIRM 

Computer Exchange 

■ A Hi\/i<5inn nf Hnnrriw I aPnintp -^ 



A division of Conroy LaPointe 



DISK DRIVES for 
APPLE 11+ /lie 



A2,5-t.'4",143K Disk Dme 
Controller Card lot A2 Drive 
A40,5-tt4",160K Disk Drive 
A70, 5-1/4". 286K Disk Drive 
Controller for A40 or A70 
Filer, Disk Utility Software 

1 Sok),5 1»3KDiskDnve 



LIST OUR 

PRICE PRICE 

$479 $259 

$ 100 $ 78 

$449 $339 

$ 599 $299 



$ 100 

$ 20 



$ 79 

$ 15 



l/ICTA 5010,5 143KU 

VlOl A StdHatjM 

Dust, 5", Double Sided. 320K 

Half Height 
Quartet, 5", 2 Duels Srde by Side 

or Standard Cabinet 
CortrolterCard 
VtOOODtair.Sld. Format 

wConlrotler , Complete 



$ 715 $ 575 
$ 89 $ 75 



$2195 $1295 



V1200.5",6MBDtskPackSysiem $1549 $1199 



TCAS+ '143KDtskOtwe,12Hkjh 
IE/It/ Contralto Card 

• Electronicsby ComX 
C.P.SOnWARE,Filer,UtilityandDOS3.3 



$379 $279 
$ 89 $ 69 



$85 

$119 
$169 
$ 55 
$85 

$ 85 

$6$ 
$155 
$69 
$367 

$15 
$ 39 
S69 
$28 

$179 
$179 



LIST OUR 
PRICE PRICE 



UT L TY & DEVELOPMENT 



Beagle. UtilityCity $ 30 $22 

DOSBoss $ 24 $ 18 

Apple Mechanic $ 30 $ 22 

Central Point Software 

Filet, DOS Utility $ 20 $ 15 

* Copy II Plus (M copier) $ 40 $ 35 
ComputetAppli. .NibblesAwayll $ 70 $ 59 
Epson, Graphics Dump $ 15 $ 9 
kisoftGraFORTHbyPaulLutus $ 75 $ 59 
Microsoft, 

AIDS. $ 125 S 75 

BASIC Compiler $ 395 $299 

C000I8O $ 750 $559 

Fortran 80 $ 195 $149 

TASCCompiler $ 175 $159 

♦ Omega. Locksmith (bit copier) $100 $75 
Penguin, CompGrpttcs.Sys NEW! $ 70 $ 53 

Graphics Magician NEW! $ 60 $ 41 

Phoenix. ZoomGrafix $ 40 $ 29 

Quality. BagolTricks NEW $ 40 S 29 

Saturn Systems, VC-Expand $ 100 S 49 

VC-Expand80 $ 125 $ 69 

Sensible, BackitUp, (bitcopter) $ 60 $ 49 



S 26 
$27 
$49 
$ 27 
S27 
$34 
$27 
$27 
$23 
$40 
$22 
$39 
$ 25 



WHILE THEV LAST 

• OVERSTOCK SPECIALS • 

FOR APPLE 1111+ He 

AlS.Synergizer 'Supercalc* Condor III *] $749 $399 

Alutta.DPSOOO DotMatnxPitnter $ 995 $395 

CCS,Seriailnlertace77l0A $ 150 $129 

CalenoerCkx*7424A $ 120 $ 95 

kComX,16KRAMCard,2Yr.Wartantylorll+ $ 179 $ 39 

MSR.SupRtermBOcolloill. $375 $199 

MicroCom, Micro Courier $ 250 $125 

MnoTetogram $ 250 $125 

»cro-Sci,A?0,S WMKOiskDnve $ 599 $299 

Microsoft, ISKRAMCardtot 11+ $100 $79 

Mountain, CPS Multifunction $ 239 $119 

SatumSystems,32KRAMCardtetll. $249 $169 

Silicon Valley, Word Handler S 250 $139 

Videx.Vitotenn,S0columncadtor!l+ S 345 $229 



SYSCOM II 

Apple 11+ Work-a-like 

Sy«om2.64K(Appfel, *> Compatible) $ 869 $ 659 

Syscom 2, 54K Starter System (same as 

Apple He System B above except 
S4K, 40 columns) $1810 $1195 

NOTE: Substitutions and deletions same as System B apply 

Syscom 2 is software and hardware compatible to 
the Apple II- 



A 



AXLON 



The Leader in Atari Add-ons 



Rampower128KSystem(800) $ 475 $295 

ATARI Rampower48KModule(foi400) $ 185 $115 

"'""' Rampo«er32K(4O0or800) S 120 $ 59 

Kamscan Diagnostic Diskette $ 15 $12 



• Means a BEST buy. 

AD #974 



ALL MAIL: P.O. Box 23068, Portland, OR 97223 

SHOWROOM AT 1 1507D SW PACIFIC HWY , PORTLAND, OR, OPEN M-SAT 10-5 



ORDERDESK TOLL FREE 

(800)547-1289 

All Other Orders Including Portland: 2454200 



Oregon TOLL FREE 
[800] 451-5151 



Hot Line For Information 
On Your Order 
[503] 245-7404 



Circle 



481 



for IBM Peripherals. Circle 482 for Apple. Circle 463 for all others. 



BYTE July 1983 201 



Figure 4: Raw zero-crossing plot (4a) and 
filtered zero-crossing plot (4b) for the 
spoken phrase "one, two, three. " 

caused by air being expelled; the 
larynx or voice box is relaxed. These 
sounds do not have much power, and 
the waveform is of low amplitude. 
However, they do carry a lot of infor- 
mation about what is being said. 

After the fricative "t," the waveform 
amplitude for "two" grows large. So 
large, in fact, that the top and bottom 
of the waveform are outside the range 
of my A/D converter, so that the top 
and bottom of the waves are cut off. 
This phenomenon is called clipping. 
Too much clipping badly distorts a 
speech signal, but a little clipping of 
large signals does not affect speech in- 
telligibility too much. Signal plotting 
in Voice Lab can help you adjust the 
amplitude of your input signal so that 
it just barely clips; this is the optimal 
signal level. The center of the signal 
plot for "two" shows the start of the 
"oo" sound. Then the signal gradually 
decays as the exhalation of air ceases. 

Not all the information in the wave- 
form for a spoken word is useful for 
recognizing or classifying the word. 
Different utterances of the same word, 
even by the same individual, will have 
different duration, stress, and pitch. 
Furthermore, a waveform offers so 
much information that processing 
becomes computationally prohibitive. 
For that reason, two other feature- 
extraction plots are generated by 
Voice Lab. These have the potential of 
reducing the amount of information 
presented, while retaining the infor- 
mation allowing words to be distin- 
guished. 

The first of these plots totals the 
speech energy and zero crossings on 
the same time axis. Figure 4 shows 
these for the utterance "one, two, 
three." 

The energy plot E(i) versus i is an 
approximation for the following com- 
putation: 



I = ix50+ 100 



E(i) = 



100 



L 



V, - 128 



This function yields a result close 
to the instantaneous peak energy of 



(4a) 



E rw 



rw : 

o Cn 

5 



I % 



J 



1 80 
200 
300 
•400 

500 

600 
700 
800 
900 
1 000 
1 1 00 
1 200 
1300 
1 400 
1 500 
1 600 
1700 
1800 
1 900 
2000 
2100 

2200 
2300 
2400 
2506 
2606 
2700 
2806 
2900 

3000 

3 1 00 

00 

3300 
340U 
350O 
3600 
3700 
38 00 
3900 

4000 

4100 
4200 
4300 
4400 
45O0 
4600 
4700 
480O 
4900 
5000 

5 1 ©0 

5200 
5300 
5400 
5500 
5600 
5700 
5800 
5900 
6000 

6 1 00 

6200 
6300 
6406 

6500 
6600 
6700 
6800 



(5a) 


















2© 


40 


80 


160 


320 


640 1280 2560 




c 


5 i|i- 


~ 


= 


z=z 


— ===— 


Mil 

llllllll 
IIIIIIIIII 
IIIMIIMI 
IIIIIIIIII 

llllllll 

nil 

Mini 

iiiiiiiii 

iiimiimi 
iiimiimi 



IIIIIIIII 

Mini 
iiiiiiiii 
iiiiiiiii 

Illl 

IIIIIIIIII 
IIIIIIIII 
IIIIIIIII 






































































































































= 


= 


= 


— 




— 






= 


— 






— 


— = — = — 






E 


= 


| 


— 1- 


III 

IIIIIMI 
IIIIIIIII 

mum 
in 


nni 
iiiiiii 

iiiiiiiiii 
IIIIIII 

inn 

mm 

iimiii 

iiniin 

iiiiiiiiii 

innin 

iimiii 

mm 

mi 

iimiii 

iiniin 

iiiiiiiii 

iiniiii 

niimi 

mi 




} 


5 


= 


H 


-I- 


iii 


i 
iiniiii 
iiiiiiiii 

iiiiiiiii 

- ii 

niimi 

in 
ninnn 

iiiiiiiii 

iiiiiiiii 

iiiiiiiii 

in 

iiiiiii 

iiiiiiiii 


iiiiiii 
n 






















































































































- 










=" 
















= - 






- 


5 


■ 


===§ 


=111= 


=iiiii==i=iii===iiii= 




> 


z 


= 


1 


=1= 


nniiiii 

iiiiiiiiii 
iiimiimi 
ii 


-iiIII--lIIII=-IllII- 




•a 






=■ 


J; 


===== 


—=—====— =====- — === — 




a 


















































— 


~ 








_ ~ 






~~ 










— ~ 





202 July 19*3 © BYTE Publications Inc 



(4b) 





Energy 


: 


•«■ 




Ze ro C 


ro 


ssi nas: . . . 







■ 






100 


™* 


*--J-y *=== = = = = = = === = = = = = = = = = = = = = = 




200 








300 




" - » " " === 




400 






: s 


500 




. . ; : ■ _= 


600 




z Z Z z " ==. 


,o 


7HR 




; ■ ■ ■ ======" 




S00 




--"■"" === — 




900 




; ; ■ ~= 




1 800 




■ == 




1 100 




: s 




1 200 




i z * == 




1 300 




... — ^_ 




1400 
1 500 




. . . =_ 




■ === 




1 600 


B 


. ■ ■ = 




1 700 


„ j 


■ ; ;.££— 




1 800 


; 


__= 




1 900 


£~ 






2000 


T^ 


^TlE-.*-*- 




2 1 00 








2206 








2300 








2400 
2500 




. . ; | : gmmmmmmm 




2600 








2700 




: ■ • ■ ■ =— 




2S00 








2900 






fl 


3000 




j ■ = 


'< 


3 1 00 




■ * „ =r= = = — 


£ 


3200 




- - " " 8} 




3300 




. . " 3= = 




3400 


j 


5 ■ = = 




3500 




■ ■ ■ -M _ M _===~ 




3600 




! • ! lEIITT 




3700 


; " 


' ^^i:^""" " 




38O0 


•as 


= " 




3900 


3= 






4000 


J= 






4 1 00 


«u 






4200 


^ 






4300 


J; 






4400 


J; 






4500 


|£ 






4600 


r~ 






47O0 


' ' 


T Ef:* "JJJS •£'"*•* 




4300 


: \ 






4900 














5M 00 




> ■ " xSSga 




5 1 00 








5200 








530M 




*' • • • * • " = 




5400 
5500 




It 

II 

1 II 

ill 1! 
It! II 
lllll II 
1 Mil 


-c 


5600 








5700 








5800 




m 

III! 




5900 




- =: = = = " 




6000 




J = == 




6100 




i _ 




6200 




* * 5:=: 




6300 


• : 


^_£r:== — 




6400 


== 






6500 


r^ 






6600 








6700 


5; 






6.800 


3: 





(5b) 



40 



80 160 328 640 1280 



o 

£ 



l 



the waveform. As noted in the pre- 
vious section, a high energy level is 
usually a sign of voiced speech. 

The zero-crossing count is a good 
approximation of the average of the 
two dominant frequencies in a speech 
segment. These frequencies are called 
formant frequencies. The approxima- 
tion is valid only during voiced 
speech. While fricatives are being 
sounded, the zero-crossing count 
becomes very high and represents 
another useful way to separate voiced 
speech from unvoiced speech. 

The formula below shows how the 
zero-crossing count ZC(f) is com- 
puted: 



ZC(i) 



t m i x 50 + 



if V,-, X V, < 
then 1 else 



Looking at the energy and zero- 
crossing counts for the word "two" in 
figure 4a, you can see how the word 
starts with the fricative sound "t," 
which is followed by a strong, voiced 
"oo." The "oo" linearly decays in 
amplitude as the pitch gradually grows 
lower. 

The jump in zero crossings at the 
end of the waveform results from the 
noise caused by the cooling fan in my 
computer becoming the dominant 
sound as the speech dies away. A 
quieter computer would eliminate 
these zero-crossing jumps at the end of 
all the words. (I have verified this by 
tape-recording speech segments while 
the computer is off and playing them 
back into the machine.) The plotting 
algorithm compensates for this prob- 
lem by squelching the zero-crossing 
display until a minimum of sound en- 
ergy is present. If this were not done, 
the zero-crossing plot would vary ran- 
domly during periods of relative 
silence. 

In addition to the waveform-func- 
tion and zero-crossing plots, the spec- 
tral energy of the speech waveform 

Figure 5: Raw spectral-energy plot (5a) and 
filtered spectral-energy plot (5b) for "one, 
two, three. " This kind of graph is similar in 
concept to a voiceprint but is obtained by a 
different method. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 203 



can be plotted. This plot is the same as 
plotting E(z') where the incoming 
waveform has been filtered to accen- 
tuate the frequencies in a given octave. 
Rather than linearly plotting the 
amplitude in each octave, the program 
varies the thickness of the octave's 
time line. The darker the line, the 
more the frequencies in the octave are 
present. These plots are similar in 
meaning to voiceprints (see references 
4 and 6), although they are computed 
using a different technique. 



Voice Filtering Unit 

The Voice Filtering unit 

(Voice filter) is designed to allow 

you to selectively enhance or attenuate 
frequencies within the speech sample 
through digital filtration. It's some- 
thing like a digitally implemented 
graphic equalizer that you can use to 
select specific frequencies to study. 
Furthermore, you can run the results 
of filtering through the filter again and 
again to get as sharp a cutoff as you 
like. 



Tune tip your LA36 



The DS120 Terminal Controller makes your LA36 
perform like a DEOriter® III. 

The Datasouth DS120 gives your DECwriter® II the high speed printing 
and versatile performance features of the DECwriter® III at only a frac- 
tion of the cost. The DS120 is a plug compatible replacement for your 
LA36 logic board which can be installed in minutes. Standard features 
include: 



• 165 cps bidirectional printing 

• Horizontal & Vertical Tabs 

• Page Length Selection 

• 110-4800 baud operation 

• 1000 character print buffer 

• X-on, X-off protocol 
•Self Test 



• RS232 interface 

• 20 mA Current Loop interface 

• Top of Form 

• Adjustable Margins 

• Double wide characters 

• Parity selection 

• Optional APL character set 



Over 5,000 DS120 units are now being used by customers ranging from 
the Fortune 500 to personal computing enthusiasts. In numerous instal- 
lations, entire networks of terminals have been upgraded to take advan- 
tage of today's higher speed data 
communications services. LSI 
microprocessor electronics 
and strict quality control en- 
sure dependable performance 
for years to come. When ser- 
vice is required, we will 
respond promptly and effec- 
tively. Best of all, we can de- 
liver immediately through 
our nationwide network of 
distributors. Just give us a 
call for all the details. 

data@@(A computer corporation 

4216 Stuart Andrew Blvd. . Charlotte, North Carolina 28210* 704/523-8500 




Digital filters can perform all the 
same functions that linear filters per- 
form on analog signals. Furthermore, 
digital filters can do tricks that analog 
filters cannot (see references 7 and 11). 

The Voice Filter unit allows you to 
construct a digital filter of up to five 
stages of the form: 

At = /Co X V t -nO T* 
rC, X V,. nl + 

k 2 X V,-„ 2 + 

k 3 X V,.„3 + 
k 4 X V,-„ 4 + 

h X V,.„ 5 

Filtration is applied serially to the 
contents of the speech buffer from 
start to end. The best way to under- 
stand the effect of such a filtering oper- 
ation is to set all the coefficients k 2 
through k s to 0, and by taking the spe- 
cific example below: 

X, = 0.5 X v, + 0.5 X u, +1 

When this operation is performed 
on a speech segment where the signal 
is changing very slowly relative to the 
sampling rate (a low-frequency sig- 
nal), then for most adjacent sample 
pairs v t = u (+1 . 

So taking the average of these signal 
samples does not change the wave- 
form at all. For rapidly varying 
signals, this computation will tend to 
smooth out rapid changes by making 
them more gradual, thus filtering out 
high frequencies. Figures 3a, 4a, and 
5a show the structure of the previously 
described examples prior to digital 
filtering. Figures 3b, 4b, and 5b show 
the effect of passing these examples 
through the above digital filter three 
times (the equivalent of a three-stage 
analog low-pass filter). 

In figure 3, observe how the rapidly 
changing signals have been consider- 
ably smoothed by the filter, while the 
lower-pitched voiced portions of the 
waveform are relatively unchanged. 
Accordingly, figure 4b shows a lower 
zero-crossing total, because the 
higher-frequency components in the 
speech have been reduced. 

The digital filter in Voice Lab is 
capable of functions considerably 
more complex than simple low-pass 



204 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 131 on Inquiry card. 




*vr-"\> 




Video Monitors 

AMDEK 300 12" hires green . 1 

AMDEK300A 12" amber 1 

AMDEK Color I Plus 13" color - .1 

AMOEK Color II hi-res RGB ( 

AMDEK Color III med-res RGB . I 
BMC 12AU 12" hi-res green 
COMREX 5600 12" hires amber 1 

COMREX 6500 13" color 1 

NEC 1201M 12" hi-res green . .1 
NEC 1212M 12" composite color: 
NEC 1203H 12" RGB lor IBM PC ( 

NEC 126012" green 1 

PRINCETON 12" RGB C 

TAXAN Vision 1 12" mid-res RGB .! 
TAXAN Vision 3 12" hires RGB .' 

TAXAN 12" hires amber 1 

USI 12" Amber display 1 

ZENITH 12" hi-resgreen 1 




Kaypro 

The anytime-anywhere computer. In- 
cludes CP/M, CBASIC, a spreadsheet 
and wordprocessmg software. 

PLEASE CALL FOR MORE DETAILS. 



5**W4r 



OSBORNE I 

New! Includes double-density drives, 
and software. CP'M. WordStar, 
MailMerge, SuperCalc, CBASIC & 
M8ASIC. 

PLEASE CALL FOR OUR PfilCE- 




|| MicroPro 

WordStar . 329" 

Random House Thesaurus .... 129" 
MailMerge »j /*rtQE> 

SuperSort _ . * | hM 83 
SpellStar Only I 09 ea 
Call for special package deal pricing. 

Popular Software 

dBASE II (MS-DOS or CP/M 86) . 449" 
LOTUS 1-2-3 Please call for details. 
PC Tutor by Comprehensive . ... 69" 

Home Accountant Plus 119" 

T.I.M. Ill by Innovative 339" 

Easy Writer II 239" 

Crosstalk by MicroStuf 149" 

Concurrent CP/M Digital Research Call 
PeachtreeGUAR/AP Series 4 Pak 399" 

SuperCalc by Sorcim 199" 

SuperWriter by Sorcim 269" 

Versaform 269" 

VolksWriter by Lifetree 139" 




Sweet P Graphic Plotter 

A simple to operate ploller which 
easily intefaces to the PC using a 
Centronics parallel port. Complele 
wilh software, set of pens, paper and 
operators manual. List Price $795.00 
Special Offer 559" 

Diskettes 

3M Scotch - ._.— „ c 

5 *SS/DD $21 9 95 
diskettes 

3M Scotch 5 V. SS/DDBoxot 10 . .25" 
3M Scotch 5 V, DS/DD Box of 10. .35" 
Verbatim 5 v, SS/DD Box of 10 .29" 
Head Cleaniig Diskette 5 v. 27" 




^ VlSlCORP" 

VisiCalc 



Only 



S17995 



VisiFlle 

V is i Trend/ Plot nnlv" 

VisiSchedule umy 

VisiWordfreq. 128K] 299" 



s 229 9 .* 




MICROSOFT 

Microsoft Multi-Plan 179" 

Flight Simulator 39" 




COMPUTER 



PRODUCTS 



^i 



I 



. 




CALL FOR 

NEW SPECIAL 

PRICE 

COMMODORE 1541 Disk Drive 329" 

Datasette program recorder 65" 

DATA 20 Z-60 & 80 column pac 229" 
CARDCO Centronics interface. 79" 

Totl. Text Processor .35" 

Spritemaster 35" 

MicroSystem RS-232 interface . 59" 

APPLE Emulator 99" 

We carry a complete line of ac- 
cessories and software for the Com- 
modore Piease call 



EPSON FX-80 



160 cps 10" carriage, 2K t 
Epson FX-80 Tractor 39 
Epson FX-100 p|eflse 

GEMINI 10 ri ""|, 

GEMINI 15 ," r 

C. ITOH 8510 '"' 

C. ITOH 1550 I " 

NEC S023A ° ces 

FACIT4510 P 




ATARI 1200XL 
Only 2>D / 9 

ATARI 800 with 48K 499" 

ATARI 810 Disk Drive 429" 

ATARI LIGHT PEN by Symtec ..129" 
Alien Voice Box . ... 129" 

File Manager Plus data base 79" 

We carry much more for Atari . . Call 

Defender — Dig Dug 

Donkey Kong — Galaxian 

Pac Man — Centipede 

Qix — Star Raiders 

Missile Command - Miner 2049 

YOUR CHOICE Only $39" ea. 



# 




♦ corona 

IBM PC COMPATIBLE 
DESKTOP COMPUTER 

128K. dual 320K disk drives, 9" 
display, serial & parallel ports, and 
MS-DOS. 

Please call or write for more details 



IBM PC COMPATIBLE 
PORTABLE — PORTABLE 

128K dual 320K disk drives, 9" 

display, serial & parallel ports, and 

MS-DOS. 

Please call or write for more details. 




Modems 

Hayes Smartmodem 300 219" 

Hayes Smartmodem 1200 519" 

Novation J-Cat 0-300 baud 125" 

Anchor Mark I 300 baud 94" 

Anchor Mark VIII 300/1200 baud . 339" 

RIXON PC212A(IBM PC) 379" 

CACTUS Technology (IBM PC) . 299 ,! 



OKIDATA ML92 



160 cps. 10" carriage, 80 colu 



Only 



s 499 



95 



Tractor forML92 

OKIDATA93 

OKIDATA82A with tractor 
OKIDATA 84A par. w/tracto 




TRANSTAR 315 Color Printer 

Prints 7 colors plus more than 30 
shades, all in a single pass of the 
print head. And it's built by Seiko. 



Only 



$ 549 



95 




Letter Quality Printers 

C. ITOH F-10 Starwriter 40 cps 1359" 
C. ITOH F-10 Starwriter 55 cps .1649" 
Daisywriter 40 cps W/16K buffer1249" 
NEC 3510 33 cps RS-232 serial . 1449" 
NEC 3530 33 cps parallel 




NEC 3550 Sprinwriter 
for IBM PC 



Only 



s 1995 00 

mMMMmmmiM If s Here! 



Apple He 



Please call for prices on Apple II 
system packages and other ac 
cessories 

Call for Lowest Price. 





IBM Personal Computer 

Includes 64K. 2 DD'DS 320K drives, 
keyboard, color video card, & MS- 
DOS 
PLEASE CALL FOR SYSTEM PRICES- 



S V 



Apple Disk Drives 

Fourth Dimension 
,0** drive w/controller 

Only 299 

Fourth Dimension 249" 

MicroSci A2 299" 

MicroSci A2 with controller . 369" 

RanaElitel 269" 

Rana Elite I w/controller 369" 

Corona 5 megabyte hard disk . . 1895" 




Columbia MPC 
IBM PC compatible system 

Includes 128K, 2 DS/DD 320K drives 
keyboard, video card, MS-DOS & 
CP/M 86 software. Monitor not includ- 




FRANKLIN ACE 1000 & 1200 

Apple II compatible computer — 64K. 
upper/lower case, and more! 

PLEASE CALL FOR DETAILS 
System packages at special prices. 




Apple II Accessories 

ALF 9 voice music card 159" 

16K Ram Card 59" 

GrapplerPlus 129" 

PKASO interface 135" 

Wizard 80 column card 189" 

GRAPPLER Butterboard 16K . . .139" 

©Hayes 

MicroModem H by Hayes 269" 

Videx 80 column card 239" 

Enhancer II 119" 

ULTRATERM 128x48 Video card 339" 

MICROSOFT 

MICROSOFT PREMIUM 
SYSTEM 

Includes: Z-80 SoftCard, 16K Ram- 
Card, Videx Videoterm, Softswitch, & 
CP/M User Guide by Adam Osborne. 
Us, 755.00 ^ 0n|y 

«$& $459 95 

Z-80 SoftCard by Microsoft .... 239" 
16K RamCard by Microsoft 69" 



IBM PC 

ACCESSORIES 

Quadram Quadboard 

64Kom y s 289 95 

128K 359" 192K 429" 256K 499" 

512K QuadBoard 

64K 299" 256K 489" 512K 749" 

/isr 

MegaPlus 

64K with serial & Clock 349" 

128K 429" 192K 499" 256K 549" 

64K with parallel & serial 419" 

I28K 489" 192K 559" 256K 629" 

MegaPak option (256K) for 

512K total 329" 

ComboPlus 

64K with serial, parallel & clock . 349" 
128K .419" 192K .489" 256K .559" 

I/O Plus 

Serial, parallel, clock, and game 
adapter port 269" 

j^Apparatlnc. 

ComboCard with parallel printer port, 
Asyncronous communications / 
RS-232 port, and clock/calendar 169" 
RS-232 cable for combo card .... 29" 

Monte Carlo Card 

64K .449" 128K 529" 256K 649" 

IBM PC Disk Drives 

5 megabyte internal drive & p/s 1529" 
10 megabyte internal drive & p/s . 1879" 
For external drive model add S300°° 
Call lor prices on Davong and Rana 
drives. 

Tandon TM 100-2 DSrDD 269" 

Trak DS/DD 500K 40 track drive 269" 
Trak 4 drive floppy controller . . 149" 
Trak 5 megabyte 5 'A " hard disk . 799" 

PC Mouse 249" 

Big Blue Z-80 Card 469" 

Nine 4164 200ns Ram Chips 69" 



SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 

3 We will accept the return of most items within 15 days £5 

3 of your receipt of the merchandise. At your request we j§ 

-—-^ will repair, exchange, or issue a prompt refund 

—^ Understandably, software is not returnable. Please cal 

—zs for more details. 



Wrwmmmmmmmm 




National Computers Spring 1983 collection of State-of- 
the-Art computer merchandise is available now. You'll 
find hundreds of products, including computers, 
printers, video monitors, modems, and accessories for 
the Apple II, IBM PC, and CP/M systems, all at the great 
prices you expect from us. It includes dozens of illustra- 
tions and some very informative comparison charts. For 
your copy send $1.00, which we will credit to your next 
order. _ 

Circle 1 on inquiry card. 



To order please send money order or 
We accept VISA. MasterCard, Ame 
charges: add 3% ol merchandise lots 
write. Prices and availability subject 



:ashier's check. Personal checks 3 weeks to clear Prices reflect 2% cash discount 
ican Express. Diners Clufj and Carle Blanche. Shipping, handling & insurance 
(mm $5.00) California residents add 6% sales tax Foreign customers please call or 
) change without notice All equipment is new and warranted by the manufacturer 



TRESES 800 ■ 854-6654 



ORDERING 



VISA" 



L 



master charge 



NATIONAL COMPUTER PRODUCTS 

8338 Center Drive, La Mesa, CA 92041-3791 ™*™» 3 

Information on products, and order Inquiries can (619) 460-6502 Calif., Alaska, & Hawaii Call (619) 698-8088 



Circle 227 on Inquiry card. 




for 8080, Z80 

A Run-Time Library 
for Whitesmiths' C 2.1 



I Fast execution 
i ROMable 
i No royalties 
i Fully reentrant 

machine support 
i CP/M file support 
I Error checking 
i Usable with our AMX 

Multitasking Executive 



Benchmarks 


Lint to ASCII conv. 


2. Long to ASCII conv. 


3. Long random number . 


generator « 


4. Double 20 x 20 matrix tl I it \ 


multiply I.! | 

5. File copy (16kb) 1 III (J I 


■ with Real-Time C 


□ without 


4 Mhz 280, 8" SD diskette. Times may vary with processor, disks, etc. 



Real-Time C 

manual only 
source code 



$ 95 
$ 25 
$950 



Intel mnemonic $ 50 
to A-Natural converter 



AMX and Real-Time C are trademarks of KADAK Products Ltd. 
A-Natural isTM of Whitesmiths Ltd. CP/M isTM of Digital Research Corp. 
Z80isTMofZilogCorp. 



KADAK Products Ltd. 

■ ■ 206-1847 W.Broadway Avenue 
5^ Vancouver, B.C., Canada V6J 1Y5 
If Telephone: (604) 734-2796 
Telex: 04-55670 



Need to Measure Your 
Corporate Communications? 

Want to define your company's image? Measure 
competitive strengths? Determine the acceptance of your 
company publications? Gauge reactions to your annual 
report? Determine the effectiveness of your corporate 
advertising? Monitor the impact of important trends and 
developments on your company's business? 

Call McGraw-Hill 
Research 



Backed by 30 years of research 
experience covering scores of 
markets and fields, McGraw-Hill 
Research professionals design 
custom projects that can make a 
big difference in the success of 
your corporate communications 
efforts. The Corporate Commu- 
nications Research Center will 
meet your research needs 
promptly, at a reasonable price. 

Put McGraw-Hill Research to work 
for you. 



For a quote or proposal, call 
Joan Bullen, Director-Corporate 
Communications Research 
Center at (212) 997-3517 or 
Eleanor Nicoletti, Project Director, 
at (212) 997-3095. Or, write Corpo- 
rate Communications Research 
Center, 1221 Avenue of the 
Americas, New York, NY 10020 



m 



If it's a communications problem, we 
probably pioneered the solution. 



filtering, but we don't have room here 
to consider them all. 

To Be Continued 

Indeed, there is no more room in 
this month's BYTE for me to continue 
at all. But next month, in part 2, 111 
describe how the system actually op- 
erates.! 



References 

1 . Anderson, James C. "An Extremely Low- 
Cost Computer Voice Response 
System." BYTE, February 1981, page 
36. 

2. Ciarcia, Steve. "Talk to Me! Add a Voice 
to Your Computer for $35." BYTE, June 
1978, page 142. 

3. Ciarcia, Steve. "Use ADPCM for Highly 
Intelligible Speech Synthesis." BYTE, 
June 1983, page 35. 

4. Ciarcia, Steve. "Use Voiceprints to 
Analyze Speech." BYTE, March 1982, 
page 50. 

5. Flanagan. J. L. Speech Analysis, Syn- 
thesis, and Perception, second revised 
edition. New York: Springer-Verlag, 
1972. 

6. Flanagan, J. L. "Voices of Men and 
Machines." Journal of the Acoustical 
Society of America. Volume 51, March 
1972, page 1375. 

7. Mazor, Stan. "Approaching Filtering 
Discretely." Computer Design, April 
1982, page 159. 

8. O'Haver, Tom. "Audio Processing with a 
Microcomputer." BYTE, June 1978, 
page 166. 

9. Payne, Robert A. "A Voice for the Apple 
II Without Extra Hardware." BYTE, 
November 1981, page 499. 

10. Schafer, Lawrence R. and Ronald W. 
Schafer. "Digital Representations of 
Speech Signals." Proceedings of the 
IEEE, Volume 63, April 1975, page 662. 

11. 2920 Analog Signal Processor Design 
Handbook. Santa Clara, CA: Intel Cor- 
poration, 1980. 



UCSD Pascal is a registered trademark of the 
Regents of the University of California. Use 
thereof in conjunction with any goods or ser- 
vices is authorized by specific license only, and 
any unauthorized use is contrary to the laws of 
the State of California. 

p-System is a trademark of Softech Microsys- 
tems, Inc. 



About the Author 

John E. Hoot is president of Software & Sys- 
tems Consulting (4181 Bryan St., Oceanside, 
CA 92056) and former manager of product 
software development for Softech Micro- 
systems. His firm specializes in p-System adap- 
tations, application development, and 
marketing. 



206 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



'U" Your computer's telephone. 

r vvj 



Phil: Just got the word trom Gary 
Increased our share by 6%. if trend 
holds, well pass competition by 
third quarter! 





A personal computer without com- 
munications, is tike a car without 
gasoline. It can't go anywhere. 

It needs a special telephone (called 
a modem), to get you communicat- 
ing with other computers. Across 
the city. Or the entire country. 

Whether you're swapping pro- 
grams with friends or club members. 
Working at home and sending 
reports to the office. Or taking 
advantage of a wealth of informa- 
tion from any of the networks or 
information utilities. Telecomputing 
gready expands the world of your 
personal computer 

And Hayes provides the com- 
munications link. Smartmodem 
300, and the faster Smartmodem 
1200, work with any computer with 
an RS-232C I/O port. Plugging your 
computer directly into the phone 



system, they allow you to 
communicate over ordin- 
ary phone lines with 
computers and terminals 
anywhere in America. 
But any modem will 
send and receive data. 
A Hayes Smartmodem 
also dials, answers and disconnects 
calls. Automatically. And it does 
this without going through the tele- 

ghone receiver a design feature 
lat makes it far superior to acoustic 
coupler modems. 

Choose your speed, choose your 
price. Hayes Smartmodems are 
available at two different speeds 
and price levels. The lower-priced 
Smartmodem 300 is 
ideal for local data 
swaps and communi- 
cates at 300 bps. 

For longer distances 
and larger volumes, Smartmodem 
1200 operates at 1200 bps or up to 
300 bps, with a built-in selector that 
automatically detects transmission 
speeds. 

Both modems work with rotary 
dials, Touch-Tone* and key-set 
systems. We've even included an 
audio speaker and indicator lights 
so you can monitor the communica- 



QD Hayes 



tions process. Smartmodem 1200 
has an additional indicator light that 
detects high-speed transmission. 
And, unlike many modems, both 
Smartmodems operate at full or half 
duplex, for compatibility with most 
time-sharing systems. 

At Hayes, all of these "extras" 
are standard. We've built our 
reputation on superior quality. Excel- 
lent documentation. A limited 
two-year warranty. And a wide 
range of software support. Including 
our own hot-selling Smartcom II™ 
communications software for the 
IBM** PC, making Smartmodem 300 
and 1200 even easier for you to use. 
See your computer dealer today for 
a demonstration. 
Then break out of 
isolation. Get a 
Hayes telephone for 
your computer 
Hayes Microcomputer Products, 
Inc., 5923 Peachtree Industrial Blvd., 
Norcross, Georgia 30092. 404/449-8791. 

Smartcom II is a trademark of Hayes Microcomputer 

Proucts, Inc. 

*TM American Telephone & Telegraph 

* 'IBM is a registered trademark of International 

Business Machines. Corp. 

©1983 Hayes Microcomputer Products. Inc. 

Sold only in the U.S.A. 

Circle 185 on inquiry card. 



ING 




/////mi 1 1 ii i is minim 







Mj ^B ^^ Ml ^B ^^P^ 



Add a SUPER-SLAVE processor board and you've 
added another user. It's just that simple. And, using the slate- 
of-the-art TURBO DOS operating system, with its modular 
architecture and high-performance multi-processing 
capabilities, virtually turns every user station (intelligent 
terminal) into an independent computer. TurboDos permits 
the sharing of a common data base with other users while 
providing protection tor each individual user's files. 

Designed to fit any S-KX) motherboard, SUPER-SLAVE 
won't slow a system down. . .it only shares data with the host 
when accessing the drives or other common peripherals. 

Each SUPER-SLAVE processor board is linked thru the 
S-100 Bus to a "master" board like Advanced Digital's 
SUPER QUAD single board computer, and contains its 
own Z80A CPU, 4 Serial and 2 Parallel I/O ports, 2K of 
EPROM and 64K Bytes of Bank-Switched RAM with parity 
(expandable to 128K Bytes). The transfer rate between master 
and slave is 1 .2MBits/sec. 

Because of TurboDos's modular architecture, each user can 



VOTE: SUPERS!.. 



is available in a 6MHz version! 

■are 201X1. Inc. SUPI1K QUAD and SUI'liK SYS'i 



perform on single-task or networking levels without affecting 
other users. SUPER-SLAVE's parity feature, under software 
control, provides for individual user reset, eliminating the 
inconvenience to other users of an entire system reset. 

At a suggested retail price of $550, Advanced Digital's 
SUPER-SLAVE processor board is the trouble-free, cost- 
effective way to add more users. 

Ask about our full line of S-KX) products, including our 
SUPER QUAD single board computer, HDC-1001 hard disk 
controller, and SUPER SYSTEM M multi-user, multi- 
processor computer. Write or call: Sales Department. 



DVANCE 
IGITAL 

CORPORATION 



12700-B Knott Avenue 
Garden Grove, California 92641 
14-891-4004 TELEX: 678401 TABIRIN 



SUPER SIX 



*""**.. ?it 






I* WW*; A -. 



'"///// 



' ('■' 



""""""""''»/«»„,„ 



'"muni, 



SUPER SIX, THE FIRST 6MHz S-100 SINGLE BOARD COMPUTER 

TO SUPPORT BANKED CP/M™ 3.0 



SUPER SIX FEATURES: 

128 KB of Bank 
selectable RAM 
6 MHz, Z-80B CPU 
DMA Controller 
6 MHz, Z-80B DART 
(2 Serial RS-232 Ports) 
6 MHz, Z-80B PIO 
(2 Parallel Ports) 
6 MHz, Z-80B CTC 
(Clock Timer) 
• Double/Single Density 
Floppy Disk Controller 
Supports 8" and 5-1/4" 
Drives Simultaneously 

• 2/4 KB of Monitor 
EPROM 

• S-100, IEEE 696 
Compatible 



*CP M is a trademark <>l Digital Research Corp. 
TurboDOS is a trademark of Software 2000 Inc. 
SUPER SIX ami SUPER SLAVE arc trademarks nf 
Advanced Digital Corp. 

Circle 488 on Inquiry card. 




SUPER SIX & CP/M' M 3.0 
A PERFECT MATCH 

Advanced Digital has found the 
perfect match to its powerful, 
high-speed SUPER SIX single 
board computer. It's Digital 
Research's new CP/M 3.0. 
Because of SUPER SIX'S 128 
KB of RAM, it is the only 
S-100 board to support CP/M 
3.0 in the banked mode; or run 
CP/M 2.2 with 64 KB of extra 
buffer. 

SUPER SIX & TurboDOS™ 
ANOTHER PERFECT MATCH 

When you combine the 
TurboDOS multi-user operating 
system with the 6 MHz SUPER 
SIX, you'll find your system 
running 1-1/2 times faster than 



TurboDOS 






before. Add the 4 MHz or 6 
MHz SUPER SLAVE™ 
processor board(s) and you will 
have the fastest multi-user, 
multi-processor system availabli 
today. 

See the SUPER SIX at your 
quality computer dealer or 
contact: 



DIGITAL 

CORPORATION/ 



12700-B Knott Street 
Garden Grove, CA 92641 
Phone: (714) 891-4004 
Telex: 678401 tab irin 

BYTE July 1983 



Parallel I/O Ports 
for H-89 Computers 

You can add 64 input/ output ports plus a Centronics-type 
printer interface to your Heath-/ Zenith-89 computer. 






by Ronald La Claustra 



About the only ma- 
jor failing of the 
Heath-/Zenith-89 
computer is the un- 
availability of parallel 
input/output ports. 
This article describes a 
method of bringing the 
required data, address, 
and control lines out 
of the H-89 so you can 
add 64 I/O ports and 
an additional dedi- 
cated port for a Cen- 
tronics-type printer. 

Moreover, this ex- 
ample should serve as 
inspiration to other 
users of nonmain- 
frame computers to 
work out similar cir- 
cuits, perhaps ulti- 
mately yielding a new 
I/O port standard bus that would 
simplify design of accessory boards. 

The interface circuit board plugs 
into one of the bus connectors on the 
left side of the processor board (see 
photo 1). The only alteration to this 
circuit board is the addition of a 
single wire lead. The needed control 
lines are taken from a Heath acces- 
sory board, which plugs into the right 
side of the processor board. The in- 
terface outputs are brought to the 




Photo 1: The installed interface showing cable placement. Note that the 
cable connectors of PI and P2 do not connect to all the pins on the interface 
board because they were wired for an earlier version. Yours should fit in 
exact correspondence. 



rear panel of the computer where 
they end in two D-type connectors. 
From one connector a cable leads to a 
new motherboard for the added 
ports. The printer cable attaches to 
the other connector. The entire proj- 
ect should cost less than $80. 

The printer output must be con- 
trolled by a device-driver program 
that runs as part of the operating sys- 
tem (HDOS or CP/M). You can write 
your own driver or buy one. 



Circuit Description 

In the interface cir- 
cuit diagramed in fig- 
ure 1, data and ad- 
dress lines are buffered 
to prevent problems 
with the processor. 
The data lines are han- 
dled by a three-state 
bus transceiver, which 
buffers and controls 
the data switching 
(read in, write out). 
The control lines are 
buffered and inverted 
for further processing 
by the logic circuits. 
(Note: control-line 
names are capitalized, 
and an "L" at the end 
of the name means the 
line is true on a low 
pulse. Thus, BRDL 
means buffered read asserted low. 
Refer to Heath schematics.) Two in- 
put NAND gates derive new signals 
that control data direction and 
printer strobing. The clock pulses are 
inverted twice to return them to the 
correct phase. 

The two separate bidirectional data 
buses must connect in an orderly 
fashion. Thus, the following method 
of controlling the external bus must 
be used. It's based on the particulars 



210 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 






LOOK WHO BUYS 
SOFTWARE 
FROM US! 




If you order software from 
us. you're in good com- 
pany. You see. some of 
our best customers are 
America's biggest corpora- 
tions. 

Maybe they're attracted 
by our low, low prices (big 
companies are price -conscious 
too!) 

Or maybe when you're 
an "IBM", you're looking for 
something extra. Like the 
personal service, giant inven- 
tory, and in-depth technical 



support you'll find at 
800-SOFTWARE 

You see. when you call 
us. we'll take care of you like 
our business depends on it. 
Because it does. Which 
means when you place an 
order, you can be sure we'll 
fill it the same day. And that 
our unique Order Tracking 
System'" is keeping tabs on 
your order every step of the 
way. 

Most important, we'll be 
there if you need us after 



your software arrives. We'll 
make sure that you'll receive 
the finest post-delivery service 
in the industry. And that's a 
promise. 

Next time you're looking 
for low price anil great 
service, do what IBM. 
General Electric, and a lot of 
other big companies do. Pick 
up the phone and give us 
a call. 

We'll show you why 
some hard-headed companies 
buy their software from us. 



CHECK OUT ALL OUR INCREDIBLE BUSINESS SOFTWARE PRICES. 



WordStar* $269 



WordStar t?AO 

MaiMUrgc- »"* OY 



A.L.S." 

Z-80 Card $129 

CP/M Card $359 

Smafterm $149 

ALPHA SOFTWARE" 

All Products CALL 

APPLIED SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY 



Versatorm 

ASHTONTATE" 

dBase II 

ASPEN SOFTWARE" 

Grammahk 

Random House Prootreader 

Random House Thesaurus 

C M 11 ENTERPRISES" 

WS-Patch and WS Keys 

COMPUTING!" 

Power ! 

CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE" 

Home Accountant 

DIGITAL RESEARCH" 

CBASIC 

CB 80 Compiler 

PASCAL /Ml* 

SPP 

Access Manager 

Display Manager 

CBASIC 86 

PASCAL/MI* 86 

Concurrent CP/M 86 

CP/M 86 

FOX AND GELLE8" 

Quickode 

dlltil 

dGraph 



$289 



$ 60 
$ 39 
$119 



$109 
$379 
$259 
$155 
$225 
$299 
$149 
$299 
$259 
$49 

$229 

$ 69 
$229 



dBASE II $459 



InfoStar $299 



HAYES" 

Smart Modem 

HOWARDSOFT" 

All Products 

IUS" 

Easymiter II 

Easyspeller II 

Easywriter/Speller 

Easyliler 

Financial Management Series 

LEXISOFT" 

Spellbinder 

LIFETREE SYSTEMS" 

Volkswriter 

LOTUS" 

1/2/3 

METASOFT" 

Benchmark 

MICROLAB" 

Ta« Manager 

MICROPRO" 

Wordstar 

Wcrdstar/MailMerge 

Wordstar/MarlMerge/SpetlStar 

Wordstar/lnloStar 

MailMerge 

IntoStar 

CalcStar 

DataStar 

SuoerSort 

SpellStar 

ReportStar 



S549 

CALL 

CALL 
CALL 
CALL 
CALL 
CALL 

CALL 

CALL 

CALL 

CALL 

$179 

$269 
$369 
$509 
$549 
$149 
$299 
$ 89 
$179 
$149 
$149 
$229 



SuperCak 2 $139 



VisiCalc $189 



Apple Packages and 

and Other Specials 
MICROSOFT' 
RAM Card" 
Sottcard" 
Videoterm (Videx'") 
All Three Above 
MBASIC 80 
BASIC Compiler 
COBOL Compiler 
FORTRAN 80 
Multiplan 
Flight Simulator 
Enhancer II (Videx") 
MICROSTUF" 
Crosstalk 
OASIS" 
The Word Plus 
Punctuation and Style 
ORGANIC" 
Milestone 

PBL CORPORATION" 
Personal Investor 
PEACHTREE" 

Series 4 Accounting Modules 
PERFECT SOFTWARE" 
Perlect Writer 
Perfect Speller 
Perlect Writer/Speller 
Perfect Calc 



$89 
$259 
$269 
$509 
$275 
$295 
$549 
$349 
$199 
$ 45 
$119 



$129 
$109 

$269 

$105 

$369 

$289 
$169 
$409 
$169 



Multiplan $199 



PerfertWriter $289 



Perfect Filer 

All Four Perfect Products 

PICKLES AND TROUT" 

CP/M for TRS Model II 

CP/M for IRS Model 16 

Hard Disk 

SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS" 

PFS File 

PFS Report 

PFS Graph 

SORCIM" 

SuperCalc 

SuperCafc ; 

SuperWriter 

SpellGuard 

VISIC0RP* 

VrsrCalc 

VlslTerm 

VrsiDex 

VislFile 

VisiSchedule 

VisiTrend/Piot ' 

VisiWord 

Business Forecaster 

Desktop Planner 

FLOPPY DISKETTES (Boxes ol 

8" 

$• (SS) 

5" (DSI 

Large Quantities 



$279 
$799 

S169 
$189 
$.225 

$ 95 

$95 
$ 95 

$129 
$139 
$179 
$129 

$189 
$ 85 

$189 
$249 
$249 
$249 
$299 
$100 
$249 



In] 



$ 25 
$25 
S 35 

CALL 



^^^^^n 



WRITE: 
800-SOFTWARE, INC. 

940 Dwight Way. Ste. 14 
Berkeley. CA 94710 
CA residents 
add sales tax. 



AOOSOFTWARE ) 

TO ORDER, CALL TOLL-FREE: 800-227-4587 

IN CALIFORNIA: 800-622-0678 or 415-644-3611 



□ Purchase orders accepted. 
Please call us in advance. 

G Prompt UPS 1 day Blue Label. 
G Call lor shipping charges, free 

catalog, and other low software 

prices. 
Q Now open Mon. Sat. 
G International and national dealer 

requests welcome. 

□ Quantity discounts available. 
G Prices may change. 



Circle 2 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 211 



a 

z 
a 


O 


o 


o 


r^ 


^ ^ _ 


' 


■ 


* 










*~ 


> 


















in 


o 


o 


o 


■* 


■tf 


T 


■* 


o 


CM 


CM 


<M 










c\j 


+ 




















If? 


Tf 


Q 


IT) 


o 
o 
W 


o 
o 


m 


ro 


9 

o. 

>. 
1- 


CM 
CO 


•<* 
C\J 






c/i 


m 


_l 


1 


1 


i 


i 


I 


•q- 


<* 


"3- 


t 


r^ 


r^ 


-? 


-3- 




r»- 


r- 


1^ 


i-~ 


r^- 


r~- 


e 


















A 


, — 


c\i 


ro 


■<t 


in 


en 


h~ 


s 


E 


o o 


3 


















Z 




















£ 



c 

3 



O 

a. 



a 
a. 

00 



1 

bo 
.a 



s 



5 



212 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Lyco Computer Marketing & Consultants 



TO ORDER 

CALL US 



TOLL FREE 800-233-8760 



In PA 1-71 7-327-1824 



800 48K...$459.00 

with purchase of Programmer $49.00 

FREE CATALOG with over 60 manuf. for ATARI 



ATARI HARDWARE 

400 1 6K 

400 64K CALL 

1200 64K SCALL 

1025 PRINTER $419.75 

810 DISK DRIVE $419.00 

410 RECORDER $75.00 

1010 RECORDER $75.00 

850 INTERFACE $164.00 

PACKAGES 

CX482 EDUCATOR ....$109.75 
CX483 PROGRAMMER. $51.75 
CX488 COMMUNICAT. .$21 9.00 
CX419 BOOKEEPER ...$164.75 
KX7104 ENTERTAINER . $63.75 



■ ATARI 8 

NFW Releases 



MINER 2049er ... $32.75 

ZAXXON $29.75 

MONKEY WRENCH .$52.75 

BANK STREET WRITER . . . $49.75 

JUMPMAN $26.75 

PHAROAH'S CURSE $24.75 

FORT APOCALYPSE $24.75 

ELIMINATOR $18.75 

BOOK of ATARI 
SOFTWARE 1983 
346 pages $16.75 



.$409 




MODEMS 



ANCHOR MARK I 
ANCHOR MARK I 
HAYES SMART .. 
HAYES MICRO II 

CAT 

D-CAT 

J-CAT 

APPLE CAT II.... 
212 APPLE CAT . 



. $79.00 | 

• $79.00 

$239.00 

$309,001 

$144.00 

$155.00 

$1 1 5.00 

$279.00 

$589.00 



ATARI 

I ^B A Warner Communications Company 



MONITORS 



NEC JB1260 $125.00 

NEC JB1201 $155.00 

NEC TC1 201 $31 5.00 

AMDEK 300G $1 59.00 

AMDEK COLOR I $329.00 



De Re ATARI 


$19.75 | 


CARDCO 

6 SLOT EXPANSION 


...$79.95 1 


3 SLOT EXPANSION 

UNIVERSAL CASSETTE 
INTERFACE 


...$24.95 1 
...$29.95 1 


VIC 20/64 PRINTER 
INTERFACE 


...$59.95 ] 


CARDADAPTER/1 
(ATARI VCS) 


...$69.95 1 


16K RAM 


...$59.95 1 




....$29.95 1 




SANYO 

MBC 100 (with micropro) .. 

MBC 1 250 COMPUTER 

MBC 4050 COMPUTER 
EFD 1 60 ADD-ON DISK ... . 
5500 LETTER QUALITY 
PRINTERS 


.$1549.00 ] 
$2195.00 1 
$2749.00 1 

$499.00 

..$649.00 I 


BLANK DISKE' 

ELEPHANT 

MAXELL MDI 


TTES 

$18.25 | 
$32.75 
.$42.75 


MAXELL MDII 





PERCOM DISK DRIVES 

SINGLE DRIVE AT88 $379.00 

ADD ON $289.00 

SINGLE DRIVE 40S1 $479.00 

ADD ON $329.00 

DUAL DRIVE 40S2 $845.00 

DUALHEADSINGLE DRIVE 44S1 ...$649.00 
DUAL HEAD DUAL DRIVE 44S2 . . . $989.00 

HARD DISK DRIVES for 
APPLE IBM-PC TRS60* 

5 MAGABYTE DRIVE $1 099.75 

10 MEGABYTE DRIVE $1399.75 

1 5 MEGABYTE DRIVE $1 799.75 

20 MEGABYTE DRIVE $2275.75 

•Add $30.00 tor TRS-80 Drives 



SAVE PRINTERS 



TO ORDER 
CALL TOLL FREE 

800-233-8760 



GORILLA GX-1 00. 

GEMINI 10 

PROWRITER I 851 
NEC 8023 



$199.00 

$319.00 

$369.00 

$399.00 



OKIDATA 92 SSAVE 

OKIDATA82 save 

OKIDATA 83 p2,ep ST 

OKIDATA 84P ava.uvble 

OKIDATA 93 save 

TRACTOR $49.75 



PROWRITER 2P $699.00 

GEMINI 15 $449.00 

PRINTMASTER .... $1 589.00 
SMITH CORONA TP1 . . . $549.00 

CITOH 8600B $1 025.00 

STARWRITER $1 099.00 



In PA 1-71 7 327-1824 
or send order to 
Lyco Computer 
P.O. Box 5088 
Jersey Shore. PA 1774C 
M POLICY 

W DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 

Circle 243 on Inquiry card. 
n-Stock items shipped within 24 hours of order. Personal 
checks require four weeks clearance before shipping. No 
deposit for COD orders. PA residents add sales tax. All products 
subject to availability and price change. Advertised prices 
show 4% discount offered for cash. Add 4% for Mastercard and 
Visa. FREE SHIPPING ON PREPAID CASH 



of the H-89's port usage and demon- 
strates what you should look out for 
in adapting the circuit to other com- 
puters. The H-89 uses port addresses 
for its internal workings. Parallel- 
port usage must not interfere with 
these internal operations, so the inter- 
nal ports must be isolated from the 
external ones. 

Some simple circuitry handles this 
problem. Rl and the two diodes con- 
nected to address lines D6 and D7 
form an OR gate. If the port address 
appearing on the bus contains either 
of these bits, the logic cuts off the 
control pulses (IOREAD, IOWRITE) 
going to the external bus and trans- 
ceiver direction control pin, thus 
preventing the transceiver from 
switching direction at the wrong 
time. 

If the processor wants data, say, 
from the disk-drive port, and the 
transceiver switches to allow a read 
of the external bus at the same time, 
two conflicting data words appear, 
causing the computer to crash or pre- 
vent it from bootstrap loading. This 



condition would happen if the same 
read control signals employed on the 
processor board were used to directly 
control the transceiver. Limiting the 
response of the interface only to those 
port addresses reserved by Heath for 
the user (0 to 63 decimal, to 77 
octal) eliminates this problem by 
preventing the normal reading of in- 
ternal I/O ports from crashing the 
machine. Thus, the OR gate detects 
the illegal addresses and enables only 
those ports that can be used safely. 

There are two input lines from the 
external bus— WAITL and INTER- 
RUPT!, (or INTL). A pulse on the 
INTL line causes the processor to 
jump to a specified address in mem- 
ory where you have put a machine- 
language routine, which is then ex- 
ecuted. Several interrupt priority 
levels are present in the H-89 hard- 
ware. Those available are levels 3, 4 
and 5. However, they are not re- 
served by Heath and may be taken up 
by other accessories, so check your 
manuals before using them. 

A pulse on the WAITL line keeps 



. 



m/A WORK FOR YOU 



i A Sells Systems 

san interactive 
-of-purchase 
is aide which 
lints custom 
i/ith computer 
and helps 
} their needs 
s friendly 
■ t gives your 

ners confidence in 
\ computer. 

G 3 N Hpves Time 
And nney 

/Vhil ■pfNA enter 
i and informs 
•customers, 
'Staff is free 
Dse sales. 
e GINA pre- 
llfies custom- 
Btes time is 
: En each sale 



>$$ 




GINA Gives You a t h o i c ■ 

GINA recomr 
generic syst 

If you choc 

GINA+, youc 

promote spec 

brand-na 

systems. 

For more inform 
tion about how.GiNA 
can help increase yoi 
profits and productivitycal 

(415) 697-3861 



§3 






SYSTEM 
VISION 

CORPORATION 

199 California Dr 
Suite 207 « 
Millbrae,CA9 



the clock pulses from running the Z80 
microprocessor, thus freezing its cur- 
rent state to allow the Z80 to be used 
with slow I/O circuits such as certain 
memory ICs (integrated circuits). The 
I/O circuit would activate the 
WAITL line and hold it until it had 
finished accepting the data word. 
This wait state is no problem when 
static memory is used but could be 
catastrophic with the H-89's dynamic 
memory, which needs to be refreshed 
periodically to prevent loss of stored 
data. This refreshing is done by ad- 
dressing each memory location at least 
once every 2 milliseconds (ms). The 
Z80 is responsible for refresh address- 
ing, and if the WAITL line is activat- 
ed, the Z80 stops dead. Therefore, the 
WAITL line can't be used with me- 
chanical devices like printers. Use it 
only with circuits having write accep- 
tance times much shorter than 2 ms. 
Both WAITL and INTL are sent 
through three-state buffers whose 
outputs connect to the processor only 
when their inputs are asserted. 

The Printer Circuit 

The printer output consists of an 
8-bit data latch controlled by a nega- 
tive pulse, which is also the strobe 
line for the printer. We use the same 
port address that Heath hardware has 
decoded as IOLPL, permitting access 
to the printer through the operating 
system in the usual way. (You can 
also use the other serial port ad- 
dresses.) 

The following description is based 
on a Centronics-type printer but ap- 
plies to most other parallel types. The 
data going to the printer can arrive 
much faster than the printer can han- 
dle it; therefore, we need a way to tell 
the computer (through the device 
driver) to stop sending data while the 
printer is printing. 

To send this message, the printer's 
BUSY signal line goes high while the 
printer is accepting and processing 
data. The BUSY line and up to three 
other inputs are brought into the 
H-89 along the printer cable and are 
then sent to three-state buffers. The 
outputs of these buffers are controlled 
by the LPRDL line, which is activated 
when the processor wants to read the 
printer status port. The outputs are 



214 July 1983 © BYTE Publkationi Inc 



Circle 394 on inquiry card. 



• 



1 •■ ■* 



II 



r 



1. 


cc a 

f i ■+- 




o 

•*- 
13 


) 

1 


13 


(0 

o 


■9. £ 



o Q 



ZJ 


CO 


L1J 


C 


> 


o 

0) 


LL 


CD 


(D 


Q_ 




[«■■ 



^ e ; 



aJCT 



' O £ ■:■: 
o o -a "■* ? 



Too, 

a> cd w m « 

_<D JD CD *£ O V 

03 F F cc w "O o 

D)n nT3 >« Q) 



j-3 U> 

. — a.: 



(dOOOQU-D 



lit- 






i 



CD ^ 
4-k ( 




Photo 2: A close-up of the circuit board showing parts and jumper placement. Red dots 
show pin 1 on each IC. 



sent directly to the processor bus, by- 
passing the transceiver because the 
printer address is not a legal address 
and thus the transceiver is not 
switched in the correct direction for a 
read. What those other three input 
lines contain depends on the require- 
ments of your device-driver program. 

The Device Driver 

A device driver program is used by 



your operating system to communi- 
cate with a peripheral device. The 
program is tailored to the require- 
ments of that device. If you need to 
use the device the operating system 
calls the driver and passes all data to 
it, leaving the control particulars to 
the driver. 

A basic driver program may cor- 
rectly send data to, and control, the 
printer but may not be able to access 



all of the printer's functions. I wanted 
easy access to all the modes of the 
Centronics 737 and so had to come up 
with a 737 driver. Not being a whiz at 
assembly language, I decided to use 
one offered by FBE Research (POB 
68234, Seattle, WA 98168). It is writ- 
ten for HDOS (Heath disk operating 
system) and the H-89 printer adapter 
but can be used as is with the one 
presented here. 

Along with the BUSY line on bit 7, 
the FBE driver needs the printer 
ONLINE signal on bit 6. All you need 
do then is send this signal through a 
three-state buffer and on to the pro- 
cessor bus just as with the BUSY line. 
The driver program checks the status 
of these bits and controls data 
transmission accordingly. If the 
driver you use needs any of the other 
printer status lines, handle them in 
the same way unless the driver uses 
interrupts, in which case you would 
connect the BUSY printer line to the 
appropriate interrupt line. CP/M 
users may have to modify the BIOS 
(basic input/output system). 

Construction 

Heath sells a wire-wrapping board 
(H-88-10) that can be used to build 
this circuit, but I chose to make an 
etched circuit board (see photo 2). If 
you want to make one, use the 
positive pattern shown in figure 2. 
Kits are available that let you 
chemically lift the pattern off the 
magazine page for use in exposing a 
photosensitized copper-clad board. 
Photo 2 serves as the parts mounting 
diagram. Red dots signify the loca- 




GRAPHIC SOFTWARE- 

A self-teaching guide of 61 BASIC programs that will 
show you how to write your own 2D and 3D 
graphics software: create 2D and 3D shapes, 
translate, rotate, scale, stretch, clip, remove hidden 
lines, shade, perspective views, surface intersec- 
tions, animation, applications to science, business, 
engineering. Named 'The best book available for 
micro graphics' by Creative Computing. Special 
IBMpc version also covers separating text from gar- 
phics, hardware requirements and more. 

Book 'Gnphlc Software lor Mlcros'-$21 95 D 'IBMpc Graphic! $24 
Apple Disk $19.95 DIBMpc Disk $21.95 



DATA PLOTTING SOFTWARE- 

1 8 programs to process and display business and 
scientific data: Pie, bar, stock market charts, 
histograms, 3D views of surfaces, log plots, semi-log 
plots, curve fitting, regression, statistical analysis. 
Data management programs create disk data files, 
recall, update, list, refile. Special features- text over 
graphics, auto-scaling, auto-replot when data 
changes. All programs in BASIC, modular, menu 
driven, fully explained. Use as-is or modify and com- 
bine for custom applications. 

DBook 'Data Plotting Software lor Mlcroi'-$28 50 
□ Apple Disk $19.95 GIBMpc Disk $19.95 



SOFTKITS TM Our publications are called SOFTKITS. They contain ready-to-run programs written in BASIC listed alongside theory, 
equations and sample problems. This format allows you to learn how such programs are written, modify and combine them for custom 
applications, or use them as-is. Disks (Apple and IBMpc) contain the same programs in Applesoft BASIC or IBMpc BASICA.. 



216 July WW © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 473 on inquiry card. 



tion of pin number 1 on the ICs. 

Because the board is one-sided, it 
requires several jumpers: 18 on top 
and up to 4 on the rear. The rear 
jumpers are used in the printer input 
circuit (output of buffer to Heath bus) 
with wires going between the lettered 
points in photo 2. One end of each 
wire goes into a pad near IC7. The 
end that connects to the data bus is 
soldered to the same pad as the pro- 
cessor connector (see photo 3). Figure 
1 shows the correct connections to 
use with the FBE program. 

I could not find a source for the re- 
quired processor bus connectors 
(right-angle female with 0.1-inch 
spacing) so I ordered both lengths, 10 
and 25 pins, from Heath (part 
numbers 432-1074 and 432-1076). It is 
through these that the interface gets 
the data, address, ground, and 
+ 5-volt (V) supply lines. The rest of 
the connectors on the project board 
also have 0.1-inch spacing but are 
male. The data, address, IOWRITE, 
IOREAD, 2.048-MHz CLOCK, 
WAITL, INTL, several ground, and 
unassigned lines form the new bus 
cable, which leaves the board 
through the large 28-pin connector, 
PI. Data, LPWRL (strobe), four input 
lines, and grounds leave through a 
right-angle connector (P2). Entering 
the board are IOLPL, BWRL, BRDL, 
2.048-MHz CLOCK, WAITL, and 
INTL through the last cable assembly 
(P3). There are no connections to pins 
1, 4, and 9. BIORQL comes in on a 
single pin (connector P4). 

BIORQL is the line that must be 
directly tapped from the processor 




Photo 3: How wires are to be connected when they go to the same pads as the bus con- 
nectors. Shown are the control signals being tapped off the serial interface board. 



board. Remove the processor and, 
using a 9-inch piece of thin shielded 
cable, connect the inner lead to IC 
U509 pin 9 and the shield to pin 10. 
On the other end, cut back the outer 
insulation and shield, leaving out 
about 1 inch of the insulated center 
conductor. Strip Vi inch of this and 
solder it to a single female 0.1-inch 
connector and cover the connection 
with tape or heat-shrink tubing. Re- 



place the processor after running the 
cable underneath it. 

To get the bus and printer lines out 
of the cabinet, use 23-inch ribbon 
cables with female 0.1-inch connec- 
tors on one end and female D connec- 
tors on the other. For the bus use a 
25-pin D connector and for the 
printer, a 15-pin one. The pins on the 
interface board are numbered from 
the top down; follow this numbering 



MAIL LIST SOFTWARE- 

a series of ready-to-use mail list programs arranged 
in a tutorial sequence that show how to write mail list 
software: Create random access data files, store on 
disk, recall, update, sort by zip code, sort in 
alphabetical order, list, print mail labels. Programs 
progress step-by-step from elementary file handling 
concepts and build to ready-to-use mail list software. 
Perfect for small businesses who want to customize 
their own software. Programs listed in the book in 
IBMpc BASICA; disks available for Apple and IBMpc. 

Book 'Mill Utt Software for Mlcrot'-$32.50 
[JApple Disk $19.95 niBMpc Disk $19 95 



STRUCTURAL SOFTWARE- 

1 1 programs combining structural analysis with 
graphics: Create a 3D mesh interactively, rotate in 3 
dimensions, store on disk. Then recall, do linear and 
non-linear 3D truss analysis, linear 3D frame analysis 
using the 'direct stiffness' method. Also do combined 
stress analysis, calculate geometric properties of 
beam cross-sections. Truss programs graphically 
display deformed shape of structure. All programs in 
BASIC fully documented with theory, equations, sam- 
ple problems. 

Book Structural Analyili Software lor Mlcroa'-$42.50 
HApple Disk $42.50 DIBMpc Disk $42.50 



TO ORDER: Send check on US bank, money order in US funds, VISA/MASTERCARD no with exp date to KERN PUBLICATIONS, PO 
Box 1 029-BJ. Duxbury, MA 02332. Ad $2 per book 4th cl mail in US and Canada: $4 1 st cl or UPS in US: $4.50 1 st ol Canada: $1 2 air Europe 
and Central America: $18 elsewhere. For Inter delivery call (617)934-0445. 






KERN 

PUBLICATIONS 



Circle 474 on inquiry card. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 217 




Figure 2: Layout of etched circuit board. When exposing the board, place this artwork face up on the copper-clad side. 



when wiring the bus D connector. In 
order to get the 28-pin bus out 
through a 25-pin D connector, do not 
connect ground wires 21, 24, or 28 to 
the D connector. Leave each loose 
and go to the next wire. When done 
take wire 21 and attach it to pin 3 
along with wire 3. Twist wires 24 and 
28 together and connect the result to 
pin 12, thus adding them to wire 12 
and increasing the capacity of ground 
lines 3 and 12. When you wire the 
new bus board, leave a bus conductor 
free for each of these ground lines 
(that is, leave a space for them when 
you get to their number). The etched 
board has these conductors already 
grounded. You should end up with 
the lines in the order specified for Pi 
(see table 1). For the printer, wire the 
D connector as listed in table 2. 

The 20-inch P3 cable has at one end 
a 9-pin female 0.1-inch connector, 
while the other ends are soldered to 
the same pads as the bus connectors 
on an accessory board (photo 3). This 
board can be either the cassette, 



serial, or other interface; it occupies 
one of the two innermost connectors 
on the right side of the processor 
board. The far right connector is re- 
served for the 5-inch disk controller 
and lacks the IOLPL signal. If you 
don't have a suitable board or run 
into trouble, you can solder the leads 
of the cable directly to an extra 25-pin 
Heath bus connector. 

The signals to be tapped off the 
25-pin bus are, counting from the top 
pin, as follows: BRDL pin 6, BWRL 7, 
WAITL 8, IOLPL 11, 2.048-MHz 
clock 13, and (choose one or none) 
the interrupts: INT 3 pin 18, INT 4 
pin 19, and INT 5 pin 20. Wire the 
cable to these points in the order 
specified for P3. At the 0.1-inch con- 
nector end, pins 1 and 9 are not used 
at this time, so you can leave them 
unwired. Also, skip pin 4. 

Construction Tips 

When mounting devices on the 
board, use sockets for the ICs. The 
capacitors serve to bypass the power 



lines. If you're not using the etched 
board, put the Tantalum capacitor as 
close as possible to the 5-V input pin 
of the processor bus connector. (De- 
pending on space, you may have to 
connect this capacitor to the rear of 
the board.) The 0.1-microfarad ca- 
pacitors go near the individual IC 
pins. 

When you connect the board, route 
the bus and printer cables over the 
processor and terminal panels to the 
rear (photo 1). Keep the jumper cable 
(P3) away from the horizontal output 
transformer to help prevent noise 
pickup from the transformer. 

The unconnected pins may be used 
to carry other signals you may use in 
the future. You can also work with 
two unused buffers on IC3. The 
diodes must be fast switching types. 

Exposure of GC brand presensi- 
tized boards is about seven minutes in 
direct sunlight through the single 
sheet of glass holding the positive art 
to the board. Keep the light perpen- 
dicular to the board's surface. Use 



218 July 1983 © BYTE Publication! Inc 



boards made of epoxy glass. Wash as- 
sembled boards with flux remover. 

The printer cable should be the 
round shielded type to reduce radio- 
frequency interference. You may 
have trouble, however, finding a 
printer-end connector that accepts 
this type of cable. I had to splice on a 
short piece of ribbon cable. Keep the 
length around 6 feet. 

Suggestions 

Early-production H-89s (without 
the external brightness control) have 
space on the rear panel for two D 
connectors in which you can mount 
the bus and printer connectors. How- 
ever, if the connectors are occupied, I 
recommend you get the junction-box 
adapter from Heath. Heath's H-88-6 
backplate modification kit gives you 
enough room to route your cables 
and mount the connectors (photo 4). 
The 25-pin D bus connector can go 
into one of the three serial I/O holes, 
and the printer connector can go out 
the hole marked "488" (use a metal 
strip to make up the space), or you 
can cut new holes. The kit also has a 
cable that brings out the floppy-disk 
bus and lets you add brightness con- 
trol. 

Because the processor board must 
be removed for installation of the P4 
cable, you should also consider put- 
ting in the new ROM kit if yours is an 
older H-89. The H-88-7 replacement 
ROM kit enables you to use the H-47, 
add the last 16K bytes of memory for 
a maximum of 64K bytes, and use 
standard origin CP/M. The only pro- 
blem is that you can't use the cassette 
interface board anymore; you must 
remove it to allow the H-89 to boot 
up. Use the alternatives stated above 
if you run into this problem. If you 
add the last 16K-byte expansion, 
leave an empty connector between it 
and the port interface board; other- 
wise, you may get interference on the 
video screen. 

If you have the serial I/O board in- 
stalled and you'll be using the parallel 
printer port, you must remove the 
serial ICs from the printer port ad- 
dress. On the two-port serial board, 
just move the chips down to the emp- 
ty sockets on the board and use them 
at that port. 



Pin 


Function 


1 


unassigned from interface 


2 


reserved for board reset 


3 


main ground, interface return #1 


4-11 


data to data 7 


12 


main ground, interface return #2 


13-20 


address to address 7 


21 


bus ground 


22 


IOWR 


23 


IORD 


24 


bus ground 


25 


system clock, 2.048 MHz 


26 


WAIT L 


27 


INTL 


28 


bus ground 


29 


+ 5-V supply 


30 


+ 1 2-V supply 


31 


- 12-V supply 


32-35 


unassigned bus lines 


36 


reserved for 1 .843-MHz clock 


Table 1: Pin assignments for 


• the H-/Z-89 parallel I/O system. 



0.1-Inch Female 


Signal 


15-Pin D Female 


Pin 


Carried 


Connector Pin 


1 


ground 


11 


2 


DO 


2 


3 


D1 


3 


4 


D2 


4 


5 


D3 


5 


6 


D4 


6 


7 


D5 


7 


8 


D6 


8 


9 


D7 


15 


10 


STROBE L 


1 


11 


BUSY IN 


13 


12 


ONLINE IN 


12 


13 


SPARE IN 


10* 


14 


SPARE IN 


14* 


15 


ground 


11 



Table 2: Wiring of connectors for the printer cable from the interface board to the 
rear panel of the H-89. (The output D connector arrangement corresponds to that of 
the Atari 850 parallel printer port except for those marked *, which are unused on 
the Atari.) 



Try out 

With everything connected, re- 
move the CRT socket (to keep from 
burning out the video display if you 
have to switch the power repeatedly) 
and turn on the H-89. If you hear two 
beeps you're OK and can reconnect 
the video display. If not, you have a 
problem. Check for shorted connec- 
tions in the cables as well as the cir- 
cuit board. Also check the transceiver 
direction pin (pin 1) with an oscillo- 
scope. There should be no activity on 
it unless you are reading a legal port. 



Once you get the two beeps, boot 
up with a scratch copy BASIC disk. 
You can check operation of the new 
bus in BASIC programs with the INP 
and OUT port commands in FOR . . . 
NEXT loops. Count through all the 
port addresses, through 255, and 
read them with the INP(X) statement. 
If you get through without crashing 
the computer, you're in business. To 
send a data byte to the new bus, use 
the OUT command, specifying which 
port is to receive it. 

The printer section can be checked 



July 19»3 © BYTE Publications Inc 219 



Me 



We hereby certify that your purchase from Discount Software represents 
the lowest price sold anywhere. If you find a lower price on what you 
purchased within 30 days, send the ad and we'll refund the difference. 



Discount Price 



CP/M 



ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE 

Medical (PAS-3) $849 

Dental (PAS-3) $849 

ASHTONTATE 

$499 dBASEII... 

" ■ * call for price 

Financial Planner $595 

Bottom Line Strategist $349 

ASYST DESIGN/FRONTIER 

Prof Time Accounting $549 

General Subroutine $269 

Application Utilities $439 

DIGITAL RESEARCH 
CP/M 2.2 
Intel MPS $135 

$"|49 Northstar 

S1*\Q TRS-80 Model II 

v UJ (p&T) 

Micropolis $175 

$98 CBasic " 2 

Display Manager $319 

Access Manager $239 

Multiplan $219 

$449 PL/180 

BT-80 $179 

MAC $85 

RMAC $179 

Sid $65 

$90 z Sid 

DeSpool $49 

CB-80 $459 

Link-80 $90 

FOX & GELLER 

Quickscreen $ 1 35 

Quickcode $265 

$65 DUtil 

MICRO-AP 

S-Basic $269 

Selector IV $295 

Selector V $495 

MICRO DATA BASE SYSTEMS 

HDBS $269 

MDBS $1099 

DRS or QRS or RTL $319 

MDBSPKG $1999 

MICROPRO 

$289 WordStar 

§"1QQ Mail Merge 



WordStar/Mailmerge $399 

WS/MM/SpellStar $549 

Customization Notes $44 

$1QQ SpellStar 

DataStar $249 

InfoStar $349 

ReportStar $254 

Wordmaster $119 

Supersort I $199 

CalcStar $129 

MICROSOFT 

$229 Basic " 80 

$OOQ Basic Compiler 
$349 Fortran " 80 
^549 Cobol " 8 ° 

M-Sort $T75 

?159 Macro " 80 

MuSimp/MuMath $224 

MuLisp-80 $174 

ORGANIC SOFTWARE 

Textwriter III $111 

Datebook II $269 

Milestone $269 

OSBORNE (Mcgraw/Hill) 

G/L, or AR & AR or PAY $59 

All 3 $129 

All 3 + CBASIC-2 $199 

Enhanced Osborne $299 

PEACHTREE 
G/1.A/R, A/P, PAY, INV 

(each) $399 

P8 Version Add $234 

Peachcalc $249 

Other Less 1 0% 

STAR COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

G/L, A/R, A/P, Pay (each) $349 

All 4 $1129 

Legal or Property Mgt $849 

STRUCTURED SYSTEMS 

Business Packages (call) 

SQRCIM 

$249 Su P erCa|c 

Act $157 

SUPERSOFT 

Ada $270 

Diagnostic II $89 

Disk Doctor $89 

Forth (8080 or z80) $149 

Fortran $319 

Ratfor $79 

C Compiler $225 

Star Edit $189 

Scratch Pad $266 

StatsGraph $174 

Analiza II $45 



Disk Edit $89 

Encode/Decode II $84 

Optimizer $174 

Term II $179 

Utilities I or II $54 

SOFTWARE DIMENSIONS/ 
ACCOUNTING PLUS 

1 Module $399 

4 Modules $1499 

All 8 $2799 

UNICORN 

Mince or Scribble (each) $149 

Both $249 

The Final Word $270 

WHITESMITHS 

"C" Compiler $600 

Pascal (incl "C") $850 

PASCAL' 

Pascal/MT+ Pkg $429 

Compiler $315 

SP Prog $175 

Pascal Z $349 

Pascal/UCSD 4.0 $670 

DATA BASE 

dBASEII Call 4?? 

FMS-80 $799 

FMS-81 $399 

Condor I & III Call 

Superfile $159 

WORD PROCESSING 

Perfect Writer $389 

WordSearch $179 

SpellGuard $199 

Peachtext $289 

Spell Binder $349 

Select $495 

The Word $65 

$*|45 The Word Plus 

Palantier-1 (WP) $385 

COMMUNICATIONS 

Ascom $149 

BSTAM or BSTMS $149 

$"|39 Crosstalk 

$89 M o v e-it 

OTHER GOODIES 

Micro Plan $419 

Plan 80 $495 

Target PlannerCalc $79 

Target Financial Modeling $299 

Target Task $299 

Tiny"C" $89 

Tiny "C" Compiler $229 

MicroStat $224 

Vedit $130 

MiniModel $449 

StatPak $449 

Micro B+ $229 

String/80 $84 




111 




\s 



These remarkable savings represent only half the story of Discount 
Software. The other half is our reputation for prompt, courteous, and inform- 
ative service. We are always available, always ready to help. 



String/80 (source) $279 

ISISCP/M Utility $199 

Lynx $199 

Supervyz $95 

ATI Power (tutorial) $75 

Mathe Magic $95 

CISCobol $765 

Forms II 

Graph Magic $79 

Basic $249 

Zip MBasic, CBasic $129 



APPLE II 



ASHTONTATE 

(See CP/M Ashton-Tate) 
BRODERBUND 

G/L (with A/P) $444 

Payroll $355 

INFO UNLIMITED 

EasyWriter (Prof) $155 

EasyMailer(Prof) $134 

Datadex $129 

MICROSOFT 

Softcard (Z-80 CP/M) $239 

Fortran $179 

Cobol $499 

Tasc $139 

Premium Package $549 

RAM Card $89 

MICROPRO 

(See CP/M Micropro) 

VISICORP 

Visicalc3.3 $189 

Desktop/Plan II $219 

Visiterm $90 

Visidex $219 

Visitrend/Visiplot $259 

Visifile $219 

Visischedule $259 



PEACHTREE 

G/L, A/R, A/P, PAY, (each). ... $224 

PeachPack P40 $395 

ACCOUNTING PLUS 

G/L, AR, AR INV, (each) $385 

OTHER GOODIES 

Super-Text II $127 

Data Factory $269 

Mini Factory $269 

DB Master $184 

Versaform VS1 $350 



IBM PC, 16 BIT 8;' 
DISPLAYWRITER 



"WORD PROCESSING" 

Wordstar $289 

Spellstar $199 

Mailmerge $199 

Easywriter $314 

Easyspeller $159 

Select/Superspell $535 

Write On $116 

Spellguard $189 

Textwriter III $189 

Spellbinder $349 

Final Word $270 

"LANGUAGES & UTILITIES" 

Crosstalk $174 

Move-it $129 

BSTAM or BSTMS $149 

Pascal MT+ /86, SPP $679 

CBasic 86 $294 

Act 86 $157 

Trans 86 $115 

XLT86 $135 

MBasic (MSDOS) $329 

MBasic Compiler (MSDOS). . $329 

Both $629 

CBasic Compiler (MSDOS). . .$495 

Cobol (MSDOS) $649 

Pascal (MSDOS) $429 



Fortran (MSDOS) $429 

"C" (MSDOS) $429 

CP/M 86 $239 

OTHER GOODIES 

Lotus 1-2-3 $329 

SuperCalc $269 

VisiCalc $219 

Visiplot/trend $259 

Visidex $219 

Easyfiler $359 

Mathemagic $95 

dBase II Call 4?? 

Condor Q & R, Others Call 

Statpak $449 

Optimizer $174 

Desktop Plan $259 



FORMATS AVAILABLE.* 



8"single density 
8"OSI 
Superbrain 

Micropolis/Vector Graphic 
NorthStar Horizon 
NorthStar Advantage 
Osborne 
Heath/Zenith 
Cromemco 
Televideo 
Xerox 820 
Dynabyte 

Hewlett-Packard 125 
NEC 
Eagle 
Apple ll/lll 
Otrona 

TRS-80 Model l/ll/lll 
DECVT-180 
Altos 
CP/M-86 
IBM PC 

*New formats added weekly. Call for 
information. 




Free With Purchase: 



Complete Software 
Buyer's Guide 
($5.00 value) 

Filled with facts and 
usable advice about 
scores and scores of 
software programs from^ 
accounting and business 
systems to word processing 
and utilities. 



Wt Exclusive Service 
V "Hotline" 

Our reputation for cour- 
teous and knowledgeable 
service has resulted in calls 
from people who never 
purchased our products. 
Now a separate "hotline" is 
available to customers only. 



Confidential | 

Software 

BargainGrams 

Regular notices of insider's 
bargains not available to 
the general public. 



ORDER TOLL-FREE 

VIA VISA OR 

MASTERCARD: 



1 800 421-4003 

Calif: 1 800 252-4092 

6520 Selma Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90028 



DISCOUNT SOFTWARE 

Outside Continental U.S.-add $10 plus Air 
Parcel Post. Add $3.50 postage and handling 
per each item. California residents add 6Vfe% 
sales tax. Allow 2 weeks on checks. COD. $3.00 
extra. Prices subject to change without notice. 
All items subject to availability. *Mfr. trade- 
mark. Blue Label $3.00 additional per item. 
CP/M is a registered trademark of DIGITAL 
RESEARCH, INC. 



nr 



m^m 




Try to display this much data on any other 

monitor . . . Nice try 



Finally. A monitor that can display entire accounting 
spread sheets, business documents and more. 

Quadscreen by Quadram. A high-resolution, big screen 
monitor for the IBM Personal Computer. Quadscreen's 
1 7-inch monochrome screen displays 1 0,240 characters 
— more than five times the screen capacity of IBM's PC 
monitor. 

Write in German, Chinese, Sanskrit, or. of course, Eng- 
lish. With characters as large or small as you desire. 

For graphics, the nearly half million dots on the screen 
can be addressed individually. A perfect showcase for 
software programs like Lotus 1 . 2, 3 and other integrat- 
ed software packages. Or for customizing programs for 
your own business needs. 

For word processing, bit-mapped graphics let you see 
exactly what you want printed. Italics appear on screen 
italicized, boldface entries appear boldface, and mathe- 
matical formulas appear as they will in print. 

Split screen function offers two full 8'/z" x 11 " pages. 
Display a long letter or document on one side and the 
German translation on the other. Two full screens of 



64K memory permit users, like software programmers, 
to switch back and forth between screens. Reverse video 
allows black letters on a white background for highlight- 
ing and emphasis. Forward and backward smooth scroll 
eliminates eye strain and flickering typical with other 
monitors. 

Quadram Corporation is an Intelligent Systems com- 
pany, for over a decade an innovator in personal compu- 
ter enhancements and color graphics peripherals. 

Quadram products are available only through author- 
ized dealers worldwide. Visit one and ask for a demon- 
stration of Quadscreen. Priced at only $1995. Quad- 
screen will fill your needs and your screen. 



QUADRAM 

CORPORATION 




Circle 343 on inquiry card. 

4355 International Blvd./Norcross, Ga. 30093 

(404) 923-6666/TWX 810-766-4915 (QUADRAM NCRS) 



Quadscreen by Quadram 





Photo 4: The rear panel of an updated H-89, as fitted with parallel port bus connector 
(leftmost) and parallel printer output (small rightmost). Male D connectors have been 
used here but female ones would be better protected from accidental shorts. 



in a similar way by sending ASCII 
(American National Standard Code 
for Information Interchange) char- 
acters out to Heath port 224 (decimal) 
with the statement OUT 224,13. (The 
13 is the decimal equivalent of a line 
feed.) Then set up a FOR . . . NEXT 
loop that steps through the numbers 
between 32 and 126 (inclusive) to 
print the ASCII character set. For the 
H-89 don't use the OUT statement to 
a port address greater than 63 decimal 
unless you know what's out there — 
you could crash the machine. 

If you have the device-driver pro- 
gram, you can call the line printer 
from your operating system. See your 
manual for the correct commands. 
Configure the FBE driver for port 340 
octal. 

The New I/O Bus 

The new external bus leads to a 
motherboard with 36 parallel conduc- 
tors and female 0.1-inch connectors 
mounted an inch apart (see photo 5 
and figure 3). The ribbon cable at- 
taches to pads at the left end, and 
supply power enters via the binding 
posts at the right end. Line 1 is at the 
top. 

The ribbon cable connecting the 
computer to the motherboard should 
be a 3-foot-long 27-conductor one. 
Three feet is long enough to be con- 
venient, while not so long that it 



causes electrical problems. Why 27 
conductors for a 25-line feed? Because 
we need to double up the ground lines 
to keep the signal return a low- 
impedance path. Before you start wir- 
ing, prepare the ribbon cable as 
follows: separate the conductors at 
both ends of the cable for about 2 
inches and then strip off Vt inch of the 
insulation. Then from one edge count 
in two conductors. The next two con- 



Thls interface will allow 

you to use your H-89 to 

experiment with 

talking computers, 
music synthesis, remote 

control, and more. 



ductors (3 and 4) should be twisted 
together and soldered, thus making 
one double conductor. Proceed from 
the next conductor (5) to the 13th and 
14th. Twist and solder these two in 
the same way. Do the same at the 
other end of the cable (being sure to 
count from the same reference edge), 
and your 27 conductor cable has been 
reduced to 25. You can now wire the 
D-25 connector and motherboard 
with the cable using the reference 
edge as line number 1, counting the 
paired conductors as a single line 




Photo 5: The new port-bus assembly, 
fitted with female 0.1-inch bus connectors 
and 10-kilohm termination resistors. In- 
sert circuit boards beginning with the con- 
nector farthest from the cable end. The 
separate power supply is not shown. 



(remember to skip the "missing" 
motherboard ground lines). 

If you don't plan to use the wait or 
interrupt functions (the usual case) 
you may want to leave these lines un- 
connected for safety — an erroneous 
pulse on either one could crash the 
machine. When you reach their pads 
on the motherboard, tape them back 
to the cable. This way they remain 
accessible for when you need them. 

Power for the accessories to be 
plugged into the bus must come from 
a separate supply circuit. Don't try 
bringing power lines out of the H-89. 
The common grounds, however, 
must be connected together. If you 
make the etched board, power con- 
nections from the center are ground, 
+ 5 V, +12 V, -12 V. Twenty-eight 
10-kilohm resistors serve to terminate 
the bus lines, reducing crosstalk be- 
tween conductors and cleaning up the 
waveforms of the pulses. The yellow 
item under the ribbon cable is a 
1-microfarad Mylar capacitor that 
serves to filter the +5-V line. 

To use the new ports you just need 
circuitry to isolate the port address; 
then combine it and the IOREAD or 
IOWRITE signals to control data 
latching. For more detailed instruc- 
tion in this technique see Steve Ciar- 
cia's article "I/O Expansion for the 
Radio Shack TRS-80, Part 1: Prin- 
ciples of Parallel Ports" (May 1980, 



July 1963 © BYTE Publication Inc 223 




Figure 3: Layout of the bus board. When exposing, the "scoops" in the ground perimeter are at the top, and the power supply pads are 
on the left. Large pads in the corners are for mounting-screw holes. The lead holes in some lower pads have been blocked out; open 
these with a pin on transparency before exposing. 



page 22). This circuitry plugs into the 
motherboard. The data lines can then 
be led off by cable or can stay on the 
board and go to other circuitry 
(digital-to-analog converters, etc.). 
Keep in mind the fanout limits of the 
interface buffers when you connect 
circuitry to the new bus. 



Conclusion 

In short, this interface can save you 
money in dispensing with serial con- 
version when adding a printer, give 
you a wider choice in printers, and let 
you experiment with talking com- 
puters, music synthesis, analog-to- 
digital and digital-to-analog con- 



verters, remote control, and all the 
other functions you thought you 
couldn't do with your all-in-one 
H-89.B 

About the Author 

Ronald La Claustra (882 57th St., Brooklyn, 
NY 11220) is an electronics technician currently 
working with microcomputers. 




a&OlO SHACK COLOR COMPUTE^ 
ftftODEM COMMUNICATIONS 



Make your Color Computer an intelligent printing terminal with off-line storage! 

•Talk to a timeshare system or information service • Print out what is received as it is received »Save 
received text to cassette tape • Re-display the received text even while on-line •Communicate with 
other computers •Using your computer as a general-purpose 300-baud terminal •Downloading 
programs from other computers 



THE 



The Microtext module isa program pack containing not 
only firmware but a second serial port so that both your 
printer and modem can be connected at the same time. 
Microtext can be configured for any serial printer that 
will work with the Color Computer, even if it requires 
line feeds! But even if you don't have a printer, you can 
keep a permanent copy of your data by storing to 
cassette tape. Also, any Radio Shack/Centronics- 
compatible parallel printer may be used by adding the 
Micro Works' P180C parallel interface. 



For those of you with special terminal applications, 
Microtext has selectable parity; it sends odd, even, 
mark or space. With mark parity (which is default) you 
can send to computers requiring either seven or eight 
bits. All 128 ASCII codes can be sent. Exchange 
programs with other Color Computer users! Basic pro- 
grams may be downloaded from other computers or 
timesharing systems. 

You'll find many uses for this versatile module! Avail- 
able in ROMPACK, ready-to-use, for $59.95 




'M0©[g© 



First-rate Programming Tools • Books • Games • Memory Upgrade Kits 
Hardware • Keyboards • Parts 



P.O. BOX 1110 DEL MAR, CA 9201 4 



224 July ) 983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 268 on inquiry card. 



This Programming professional deserves a 
lot more from his personal computer. 



He's earned it. As a seasoned professional, 
he's learned to master some of the world's 
most advanced programming tools. Tools 
specially designed to meet the everyday 
demands of programming experts. 

But as the owner of a personal com- 
puter, he's come to expect less. Less 
Serformance. Less sophistication. And less 
exibility. 

Why should programming a 
personal computer be any different? 

Prior to the announcement of micro/ 
SPF™ development software, experienced 
programmers felt programming a personal 
computer was a lot like playing with a toy. 
You couldn't take it seriously. 

But today, there's micro/SPF™ a solution 
to elementary program editing tools now 
offered with most micro-computers. 

With micro/SPF™ you get the same 
procedures and commands experienced 
programmers are accustomed to using at 
work. By mimicking features found in 



standard SPF software, micro/SPF™ 
provides all the sophisticated utilities pro- 
gramming professionals expect. 

Programming experts can take 
advantage of skills they've spent 
years perfecting. 

Now, for the first time, mainframe soft- 
ware is available for personal computers. 
SPF screens are fully reproduced in logical 
sequence and each screen is formatted 
identical to those found in the SPF system. 

In addition, micro/SPF™ comes equipped 
with the same primary and line commands, 
tutorial messages and program editor 
(with program function keys) experienced 
programmers are used to. 

Programming professionals who've 
spent years perfecting the art of writing 
sophisticated code deserve to work with 
state-of-the-art tools, not toys. Find out 
how micro/SPF™ can help you do work- 
compatible programming on your 
personal computer today! 



ntf-srr mnun omim nut! 



i 



viii rv Miwrus mow 



PHASE* 



PHASER SYSTEMS, INC 24 CALIFORNIA STREET 
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111 (415) 434-3990 



Circle 317 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 225 



Hardware Review 



Bubble Memory for the Apple II 

BUBDISK 



by Peter Callamaras 



Memory is a very important part of a computer. After 
the price, the question most people ask when they shop 
for a computer is how much memory the system has. For 
most small-business systems, and for the higher-priced 
personal computer systems available today, the starting 
size of the computer's main memory is usually 64K bytes, 
which is the limit for most 8-bit processors. Many of the 
newer systems can also be expanded up to 256K or 512K 
bytes of internal memory. Basically, the more RAM 
(random-access read/write memory), the better. 

Many early Apple II owners can remember when the 
"standard" Apple came with a whopping 16K bytes of 
RAM, and the main storage system for programs and 
data was the cassette. Now, thanks to bank-switching 
techniques (which switch banks of memory into and out 
of the 64K-byte address space) and memory-management 
systems, the old 64K-byte limit has been effectively 
eliminated. Today, many hardware memory-expansion 
modules are available for the Apple, and they usually 
come in packages of 128K bytes or multiples thereof. 

Coincidentally, the amount of data that can be stored 



on a single Apple II floppy disk with the DOS (disk 
operating sytem) is just under 128K bytes. Looking at 
the size of memory available now and the amount of data 
on a disk, it seems obvious that if you have a 128K-byte 
memory card that stores information as a disk would, 
you can now work at RAM speeds on disk-based data. 
Because it can take several seconds to access a disk drive 
and then read or write data to or from the disk, the 
potential for reduced processing time is excellent. An ex- 
panded memory means you can do a lot more in less 
time. 

Once the processing is finished, however, you have to 
write the final information to a disk if you wish to save it. 
If you lose power in the middle of a session, you also 
stand to lose all the data on the memory card because of 
the volatile nature of standard memory chips. 

Oh well, you can't win them all, you say. WrongI Now 
you can have your cake and eat it too, thanks to the Ap- 
ple II bubble-memory module from MPC Peripherals 
Corporation. 

The BUBDISK, as it is called, is a 128K-byte memory 







Photo 1: The BUBDISK for the Apple II. The large square chip is Intel's bubble-memory chip, which holds 128K bytes of nonvolatile 
data. 



226 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 






SORT, COMPRESS, and TRANSFORM 
dBASE If DATA FILES 



100- 
90- 


Time Saved with DBPlus 


80- 




70- 




CO60- 
LU 

h- 50- 

3 

Z 40- 




^30- 




20- 




10- 




- 




500 1000 20 

RECORDS SORTED 



If you are serious about dBASE II™ 
you need DBPlus. This program 
runs outside of dBASE II T and per- 
forms* the following important 
functions on dBASE II™ data files: 

•Sort 

• Compress/Decompress 

• Transform 

DBPlus™ is designed to free you 
from the chore of typing or 
memorizing a new language. In 
most cases all you have to do is 
move the cursor to the next menu 
item and press return! 

SORT 

DBPlus™ can sort a data file up to 
15 times faster than dBASE II™ on a 
single field; 32 fields may be sorted 
in a single pass and each additional 
field requires 1% more sorting time. 



COMPRESS/DECOMPRESS 

A copy of any dBASE II™ data file 
can be produced which is only 
30% to 40% of the original size. 

The compressed file will save 
you transmission time and phone 
costs when you send a data file 
over a modem. 

Making backup copies of large 
data files can use up many floppy 
disks. Compressed files will save 
you space in archival storage. 

TRANSFORM 

You can now modify the structure 
of any data file by adding, deleting, 
and modifying fields without any 
programming knowledge. 

DBPlus™ can also create a new 
file which is compatible with 
WordStar/MailMerge.™ 

Now retailing for $125. 

Manual and demo disk may be 
purchased separately. 

Dealer and distributor inquiries invited! 

HumanSoft 

661 Massachusetts Avenue 
Arlington, Mass. 02174 
(617) 641-1880 

dBASE II is a registered trademark of AshtonTate, Inc. 

WordStar/MailMerge is a registered trademark of MicroPro, Inc. 

DBPlus is a registered trademark of HumanSoft 



Available from: Software Distributors 1-800-421-0814 
France: La Commande Electronique 

5 Villa Des Entrepreneurs 

75015 Paris, France 

Tel: (11 577.31.82 



Circle 188 on inquiry card. 



Software Wholesalers 1-800-633-2552 
Japan: JSE Infl 

9FToyoBldg. 6-12-20 Jingmae 
Shibuya-ku Tokyo, Japan 150 
Tel: (03) 486-7151 
Available in popular formats (coming soon- IBM P.C.) 



Germany: Markt & Technik 

Hans-Pinsel-Strausse 2 

8013 Haar bei Munich, West Germany 

Tel: 089-4613-0 



BYTE luly 1983 227 



The intensity of Scrabble,* 

the excitement of Boggle," 

the imagination of word search games... 

WORD CHALLENGE 

The Ultimate Word Game. 



a 


r 




^HP 


e 


a 


d 


5 


P 




I Ready for some 
k mental gymnas- 
i tics? Take on 
, Word Chal- 
lenge. You'll 
race the clock 
with LEX, an 
opponent of 
uncannily human intel- 
ligence, to find hidden words in 
a square of random letters. (The sample 
square has 142 words.) Longer words score 
better points, so while you might enter "cap," 
"ape" and "tea," LEX is picking out aster," 
"repast" and "sacred," all part of his remarkable 
90,000-word vocabulary. But don't give up. You 
can select from 26 different skill levels, choose 
the square size (3 x 3, 4 x 4 or 5 x 5), time limit 
and a variety of scoring methods. 

Word Challenge. Only $39.95 at your computer 
dealer. For Mastercard and Visa orders, call toll- 
free, 1-800-323-0023 In Florida, call collect, 
305/566-3511. Or complete the coupon and send 
check or M.O to: Word Challenge, Proximity 
Software, 3511 N.E. 22nd Avenue, Fort Lauder- 
dale, Florida, 33308. 



PROXIMITY 



Please send Word Challenge Disk(s) for which 

I've enclosed $39.95 each (plus $2.00 shipping and 
handling). Florida residents please add 5% sales tax. 

Check appropriate box. 

□ Apple II, II Plus or II Plus E (min 48k) w/disk 

D IBM Personal Computer (min 64k) w/disk 

D Osborne I (min 64k) w/disk 

Name 



Address 
City 



State 



Zip 



Apple IBM and Osborne are registered trademarks of Apple Computer Inc . 
International Business Machines Corp and OsDorne Computer Corp respectively 
Boggle and Scrabble are registered trademarks of Parker Brothers Division of 

CPG Products Corporation and Selchow and Richter. respectively BY783 







At a Glance 




Name 


Hardware Required 


BUBDISK Apple II bubble- 


Apple II or II Plus with Apple 


memory module 


33 DOS floppy disk 


Manufacturer 


Capability 


MPC Peripherals Corporation 


Stores 1 28K bytes of data; 


9424 Chesapeake Dr. 


accesses disk data at RAM 


San Diego, CA 92123 


speeds; works with Pascal or 


[619) 278-0630 


Apple 3.3 DOS 


Price 


Documentation 


S895 


1 4-page manual with 4-page 




Pascal supplement 


Hardware 




Intel 71 10-4 bubble; 128K 


Warranty 


bytes capacity; 32-track 


Two years for parts and 


equivalent; mean access 


labor 


time: 40 ms; data rate: I2.5K 




bytes per second 


Audience 




Any Apple owner wishing 


Software 


to reduce waiting time 


BUBDOS with Diversi-DOS 


when using floppy disks 


|DRS Inc.); BUBPAS [Pascal 




version) 





module designed to plug into the Apple II. The difference 
between the BUBDISK and other expansion boards is 
MPC's use of an Intel 7110-4 bubble-memory device (see 
photo 1). For those of you not familiar with bubble 
memory, one of its main attractions is its nonvolatility. If 
you turn off the computer or lose power, whatever was 
stored in bubble memory is not lost. You thus end up 
with an added measure of protection against disaster. 

Installation of the BUBDISK is extremely simple. After 
turning off power to the Apple and opening the top of the 
computer, you must ground yourself by touching the 
power-supply case. You then remove the disk-controller 
card from its normal slot 6 position, put the controller in 
slot 5, and plug the BUBDISK card into slot 6 of the Ap- 
ple. Just button up the Apple and you are done. 

To check everything out, when you turn on the Apple 
you should hear a few clicks from the speaker and the 
BUBDISK greeting should appear on the screen. If you 
don't get the BUBDISK greeting, simply insert the BUB- 
DOS disk into your standard disk drive, boot the disk 
from slot 5, and initialize the BUBDISK in slot 6. The 
DOS on MPC's BUBDOS disk is a patched version of the 
standard Apple 3.3 DOS. In fact, the BUBDOS is actually 
a version of Diversi-DOS from DSR Inc., which operates 
faster than the Apple 3.3 DOS. 

After you have the BUBDISK up and running, you 
have a real treat in store. You can use the Copy program 
on the Apple System Master to copy a whole floppy disk 
into bubble memory from the drive in slot 5 (or just move 
over selected files with the FID program). Then run your 
application program. You will not believe the difference 
in speed I You have a data-transfer rate of 12. 5K bytes per 
second. 

To see how much difference the BUBDISK makes, I 
tried several representative programs Apple users might 



228 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 338 on inquiry card. 



System Saver 

The most important peripheral for your Apple n and lie. 



HI" 1 !!! 
■Hiiilli 



I 



For Line Surge Suppression 

The SYSTEM SAVER provides es- 
sential protection to hardware and 
data from dangerous power surges 
and spikes. 



^v*IF 



T 



SYSTEM SAVER 
APPLE II 



J 



By connecting the Apple II 
power input through the SYSTEM 
SAVER, power is controlled in two 
ways: 1) Dangerous voltage spikes 
are clipped off at a safe 130 Volts 
RMS/175 Volts dc level. 2) High fre- 
quency noise is smoothed out be- 
fore reaching the Apple H A PI type 
filter attenuates common mode 
noise signals by a minimum of 
30 dB from 600 khz to 20 mhz, with 
a maximum attenuation of 50 dB. 



For Cooling 

As soon as you add 80 columns or 
more memory to your Apple II you 
need SYSTEM SAVER. 

Today's advanced peripheral 
cards generate more heat. In addi- 
tion, the cards block any natural air 
flow through the Apple II creating 
high temperature conditions that 
substantially reduce the life of the 
cards and the computer itself. 



For Operating Efficiency 

SYSTEM SAVER contains two 
switched power outlets. As shown 
in the diagram, the SYSTEM 
SAVER efficiently organizes your 
system so that one convenient, 
front mounted 
power switch 
controls SYSTEM 
SAVER, Apple H, 
monitor and printer. 

Available in 220/240 Volt. 50 Hz 





SYSTEM SAVER provides cor- 
rect cooling. An efficient, quiet fan 
draws fresh air across the mother 
board, over the power supply and 
out the side ventilation slots. 



The heavy duty switch has a 
pilot light to alert when system is 
on.You'll never use the Apple power 
switch again! 



Easy Installation 



Just clips on. 
No mounting or 
hardware required. 
Color matched 
to Apple n. 




PATENT PENDING 



Compatible with Apple Stand 




$89.95 at your local dealer or order direct 
by phone or mail. 

For phone or mail orders include $2.50 for 
handling. New York State residents add sales 
tax. VISA and MASTERCARD accepted. 
Dealer inquiries invited. Circle 228 on inquiry card. 

Kensington Microware Ltd. 

919 Third Avenue, New York NY 10022 

(212) 486-7707 Telex: 236200 KEN UR 




Sm 



KENSINGTON 
MICROWARE 



have. As an example, using the Home Accountant pro- 
gram from Continental Software, I was able to save 10 
seconds on each read/write operation using the BUB- 
DISK. The particular files I was using took slightly more 
than 18 seconds to read or write using a standard disk 
drive, but only 8 seconds with the BUBDISK. I found the 
same sort of time savings on all the programs I tried (pro- 
grams will give different time savings depending on how 
many different files you have to move and their sizes). It 
was like going to a disk system from cassettes all over 
again. 

In one case, a computer war game on disk took so long 
going back and forth reading various files during play 
that I almost hated the game because of the time required 
to play out one scenario. Using the BUBDISK, however, I 
found the game one of the most enjoyable of that type I 
have played. I no longer had to wait for the disk drive. 

I found the time saved was consistently better than 50 
percent — and in some cases more. Using the BUBDISK 
with Apple Pascal also gave similar time savings over the 
standard disk system. At the time this was written, I was 
unable to determine if and when CP/M programs would 
be compatible with the BUBDISK. 

Another application for the BUBDISK is a "disk-less" 
Apple. For example, you can load the BUBDISK with 
BUBDOS, a word processor, and a communications pro- 
gram. Then you can disconnect the disk drive and use the 
Apple (with a small monitor and modem) as a fairly por- 
table workstation. 

I experienced only one problem area while using the 
BUBDISK, and it has nothing to do with this outstanding 
product. In many cases, I couldn't use this new tool 
because of the copy-protection measures used by 
manufacturers on their programs. These copy-protection 
measures made it impossible to read these programs into 
the BUBDISK. In several cases, I couldn't even read the 
data disk into bubble memory because the data disks 
were also modified as part of the copy protection. If for 
no other reason than to be able to use products like the 
MPC system, users should insist that their application 
programs not be copy protected. 

Some minor notes. Because a standard Apple 3.3 DOS 



disk holds 143K bytes, with DOS loaded on the first three 
tracks, and BUBDISK holds only 128K bytes, something 
has to be sacrificed. I never had any problems in this 
area, however. If I needed all the bubble memory for 
data, I deleted the DOS from the BUBDISK and used the 
DOS from a BUBDOS disk in the disk drive. 

Additionally, because you are using Diversi-DOS, the 
DOS error messages are now just numbers rather than 
the more familiar messages. When you are using bubble 
memory, you get a clicking noise from the speaker when 
it is in use. If the sound bothers you, you can turn it off 
using two simple POKE commands. 

Conclusions 

I found the BUBDISK a pleasure to work with, and the 
time it saved was in all cases substantial. The DOS com- 
mands were also executed faster than with the standard 
Apple 3.3 DOS. The MPC system is simple and reliable. 
Automatic error-correction circuitry is built into the 
system. I didn't experience any data errors during the 
time I used the system. The board is a very well made 
piece of hardware. If you need to know whether the bub- 
ble is operating, you can look at the board; the board's 
LED (light-emitting diode) comes on when the bubble is 
being used. Some users may find the manuals provided 
with the system a little skimpy, but there really isn't 
much involved in operating the BUBDISK. Just act as if it 
were a standard disk drive and you should have no prob- 
lems. It is also noteworthy that the BUBDISK comes with 
a two-year (parts and labor) warranty. 

If you have ever been frustrated at having to wait while 
your Apple shuffled back and forth to a disk drive for 
data, you can eliminate those frustrations very quickly 
by using a BUBDISK. ■ 



About the Author 

Peter Callamaras, an officer in the Air Force, can be reached at 
AFIT/LS, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433. The recipient of degrees in 
computer technology and biological sciences, he is currently working 
on a master's degree in systems management. He has been interested in 
computers since 1966 and used to be the service department manager of 
a computer store. 



DATA TRANSFER PROBLEMS? 

Your Simple Solution is REFORMATTER® Diskette Conversion Software 




Avoids serial communication protocols. 
Needs only one system to transfer. data. 

• Converts source code and data files. 

• Allows 2-way transfer. 
•Quick, reliable/and inexpensive. 




VERSIONS 



Runs On 
CP/M 
CP/M 
CP/M-86 - 
CROMIX 
DEC RT-11 
MS-DOS' 
TRSDOS II 
TRSDOS II 



Reads/Writes 



*&* 



-IBM 3740 
-DEC RT-11 
- IBM 3740 
-* »-DEC RT-11 

-*^XWlBM 3740 

~* ►CP/M 

•+ »-DEC RT-11 



PRICE 



S249 -$350 



/0> 



Requires 8" floppy drive. 
(415)324-9114 TWX: 910-370-7457 



467 Hamilton Avenue, Suite 2, Palo Alto, Calif. 94301 



230 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Ire 



Circle 458 on inquiry card. 




,..,.__ ........-,.._ 



p* 



*3*^\ 



,%0' 



♦va^svM* 








Memorex Reliability. 
Now You Can Trust It 
Even Longer... For Years. 



MEMOREX 



A Burroughs Company 

c 1983 Memorex Corporation Memorex is a registered trademark 
of Memorex Corporation 



Memorex's new 5 
year warranty on our 
flexible discs gives 
you more protection 
and value— at no 
extra cost. It's what you've 
come to expect from the leader 
of computer media products 
for the past 22 years. 

Memorex's "Is It Live or Is It 
Memorex?" means quality. Qual- 
ity that makes Memorex the first 
choice of millions of computer 



customers. Quality that keeps 
Memorex discs working flawlessly 
on personal and business com- 
puters—like Atari, Apple, Com- 
modore, IBM, Osborne, Radio 
Shack (TRS-80) and most others. 
Your computer data is critically 
importantto you— and to us. Use 
the flexible disc you can trust 
longer. Use Memorex. See your 
dealer or distributor today. Or call 
(800) 538-8200 for the one 
near you. 



Hardware Review 




Photo 1: The Commodore 64 and 1541 disk drive. Inset shows rear view of the 64. From left to right, the cartridge slot for game or 
program cartridges; channel selector and TV output connector; the direct audio and video connector; serial port for disk drives or a 
printer; cassette interface; and the user port for peripherals such as the VICmodem. 



At first glance it's possible to 
mistake the Commodore 64 for its 
predecessor — externally the 64 looks 
like a tan VIC-20. But the similarities 
stop with the case design and key- 
board layout (see photo 1). The 64 is 
a completely different machine. It has 
features, such as sprite graphics and 
high-quality sound, not to be found 
on the VIC-20. A full-featured and 
versatile machine, the 64 retails for 
$595. At that price it promises to be 
one of the hottest contenders in the 
under-$1000 personal computer 
market. 



by Stan Wszola 

The Commodore 64 is based on 
MOS Technology's 6510 8-bit micro- 
processor, which uses the same in- 
struction set as the 6502 (the heart of 
the VIC-20), but which includes eight 
additional input/output (I/O) lines 
used in the 64 for memory manage- 
ment; they control bank switching 
between the internal ROM, an exter- 
nal ROM cartridge, or an I/O device, 
which allows any of these to appear 
to occupy a certain portion of the 
processor's address space. This bank 
switching gives the 64 a total of 84K 
bytes of memory: 20K bytes of read- 



only memory (ROM) and 64K bytes 
of random-access read /write memory 
(RAM). BASIC programs can access 
39K bytes of RAM; machine-lan- 
guage programs (figure 1) can access 
52K bytes of RAM. 

The 64 can be expanded in a varie- 
ty of ways. At the back of the case is 
a slot for program or game cartridges 
(see photo 1 inset). On the right side 
are two ports for joysticks or game 
paddles and a socket to plug in the 
outboard power supply. The 64 has a 
built-in RF (radio-frequency) modula- 
tor so you can use your TV as a video 



232 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



monitor. All you have to do is make a 
simple connection to the antenna ter- 
minals; a switch on the computer lets 
you view the output on channel 3 or 
4. 

The 64 has connections for audio 
input and output and a connection 
that provides a composite video 
signal and direct audio for driving a 
video monitor. Also, the 64 contains 
a serial port for connecting a disk 
drive or printer, a cassette-recorder 
interface, and a user port for periph- 
erals such as the VICmodem. It 
would be nice, however, if the 64 had 
real RS-232C and parallel printer 
ports so you could use someone else's 
peripherals. Even to load a cassette 
tape you must buy Commodore's cas- 
sette recorder. 

The 6567 Video Interface Chip 
(also referred to as the VIC-II chip) 
controls graphics. It gives the Com- 
modore 64 a 40-column by 25-line 
text display with 16 text colors and its 
own set of graphics characters. The 
chip can produce a 320- by 200-dot 
high-resolution display with up to 
255 combinations of foreground and 
background colors and support up to 
eight sprites (movable object blocks) 
on the screen at one time. 

The Commodore 64 has the 6581 
Sound Interface Device (SID) chip, 
which produces music and sound ef- 
fects covering a nine-octave range 
and generates three voices simultan- 
eously. You can control all aspects of 
the sound generation via POKE in- 
structions in BASIC. The volume, 
waveform, attack, decay, sustain, 
release, duration, and note selection 
are all under software control. 

Such an inventory of standard fea- 
tures is impressive at $595 (some dis- 
count houses advertise it for as little 
as $399). As an added benefit, the 64 
can run some PET software. And the 
optional Z80 CP/M cartridge gives 
you access to a potentially large base 
of well-established software that in- 
cludes word-processing, electronic- 
spreadsheet, and communications 
programs. 

First Touch 

Having worked with the original 
PET 2001 back in 1978 and experi- 
enced the limitations of its keyboard, 



At a Glance 




Name: Commodore 64 


Data Storage 




VIC- 1530 Datassette audio-cassette 


Manufacturer 


recorder; VIC- 1 54 1 single-sided single- 


Commodore Business Machines Inc. 


density floppy-disk drive 


Computer Systems Division 




The Meadows 


Languages 


487 Devon Park Rd. 


Commodore BASIC V2 


Wayne, PA 19087 


Optional Z80 CP/M cartridge available 


(215) 687-9750 






Documentation 


Price 


Commodore 64 User's Guide, 167 pages 


S595 


Optional Programmer's Reference Guide, 




487 pages 


Dimensions 




1 6 by 8 by 3 inches 


Audience 




Any computer buyer who wants an 


Processor 


introductory machine with BASIC, color 


6510 |a 6502 -compatible processor with 8 


graphics, and sound 


additional I/O lines) 




Memory 




20K bytes of ROM 




64K bytes of RAM 









I found it a pleasure to sit down at the 
Commodore 64. Its full-size 66-key 
keyboard includes four special- 
function user-programmable keys. 
The graphics characters and special 
functions that are accessible from the 
keyboard are displayed on the sides 
of the keys. 

I have no trouble touch-typing on 
the Commodore 64. The layout dif- 
fers only slightly from that of the 
Selectric. Fast typists will appreciate 
the type-ahead buffer that holds 10 
keystrokes. Only the cursor, space- 
bar, and Insert/Delete keys repeat 
automatically when held down. A 
minor annoyance is that there are 
only two keys for cursor control. To 
move the cursor right or down, you 
simply press the appropriate keys but 
to move the cursor left or up you 
must press the Shift key in addition to 
the appropriate key. This is an 
awkward arrangement for those used 
to four separate cursor-control keys. 
In the graphics/text mode, pressing 
the shift key and any alphabetic key 
will give you the graphics character 
shown on the right side of the key. By 
pressing the Commodore key and an 
alphabetic key, you'll get the graphics 
character shown on the left side of the 
key. PET owners have long used this 
arrangement to produce graphics 
from within BASIC programs. 







E000-FFFF 

DOOO-DFFF 
CO00-CFFF 

A000-BFFF 
8000- 9FFF 

«000 - 7FFF 
0000-3FFF 


8K KERNEL 
ROM OR RAM 


4K I/O OR RAM OR 
CHARACTER ROM 


4K RAM 


8K BASIC ROM 
OR RAM OR 
ROM PLUG-IN 


8K RAM OR ROM 
PLUG-IN 


16K RAM 


16K RAM 


Figure 1: Me 
modore 64. 1 
figuration. Be 
BASIC may I 
ory, leaving t 


mory map of the Com- 
'his is the standard con- 
th the Kernal ROM and 
>e switched out of mem- 
4K bytes of RAM. 


July 1983 © BYTE Publications lnc 233 



Memory Management 

The 64 uses the 6510's eight addi- 
tional I/O lines as a memory -mapped 
control port. The eight lines are 
treated as one memory location and 
reside at address 0001; address 0000 is 
a control register that determines the 
direction of data flow on the lines. By 
sending a to the least significant bit 
(called bit 0) of address 0001, you can 
replace the BASIC ROM with RAM, 
a process known as bank switching. 
Sending a to bit 1 of address 0001 
eliminates the Kernal ROM that con- 
tains the 64's operating system. 

Bank switching explains how the 64 
can run CP/M. By using bank switch- 
ing to replace the ROMs with RAM, 
the system is left with an uncluttered 
64K bytes of memory into which you 
can load CP/M. Of course, this also 
gives you the opportunity to design 
your own operating system. 

Graphics 

The Commodore 64 provides a 
variety of graphics modes. You use 
the POKE command to enter values 
into the 47 control registers of the 
VIC-II chip to set the various graphics 
modes. Although using POKE com- 
mands makes for awkward program- 
ming, it allows for fast-action graph- 
ics in BASIC. 

The VICTI chip is designed to ac- 
cess 16K bytes of memory, which 
means that, for example, it can be 
programmed to access the character- 
generator ROM or any 16K-byte 
bank in memory. By using POKE and 
PEEK instructions to enter values into 
port A of the 6526 Complex Interface 
Adapter Chip #2, you can control 
which bank of memory the VIC-II 
chip uses. This setup frees the 6510 
microprocessor from the time-con- 
suming work of controlling all the 
graphics and gives programmers a 
flexible tool to use in developing 
creative graphics. 

When you first turn on the Com- 
modore 64 it's in a graphics/text 
mode showing a 40-column by 25-line 
screen composed of two 256-char- 
acter sets. Each character in the sets is 
made from an 8 by 8 matrix; the sets 
contain uppercase and lowercase let- 
ters, punctuation marks, graphics, 
and other special symbols and include 

234 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Photo 2: Sample screen display showing 
the 16 colors available. 



normal and reverse-video characters. 
The 40 by 25 display format was 
chosen because most Commodore 64s 
will be used with home television sets 
that have a limited bandwidth for 
graphics. (An 80-column by 24-line 
adapter, the Video Pak 80, is avail- 
able from the Data 20 Corp., Suite 
B10, 23011 Moulton Parkway, 
Laguna Hills, CA 92653.) 

The screen initially displays dark 
blue characters on a light blue back- 
ground. By pressing one of the 
number keys and either the Control 
or Commodore key, you can change 
the display characters to any of 16 
different colors (photo 2). The back- 
ground and border colors can also be 
changed by using POKE commands. 
For example, POKE 53280,x and 
POKE 53281, y (where x and y are the 
color numbers) alter the border and 
background screen colors, respective- 
ly. Screen colors may be restored to 
the default values by pressing the 
Run /Stop and Restore keys simulta- 
neously. 

In standard character mode, each 
of the 1000 character positions on the 
standard screen has a corresponding 
byte in memory. This is known as a 
memory -mapped display. By using 
POKE commands, you can enter an 
8-bit number into any of the char- 
acter locations in memory; the Com- 
modore 64's character-generating 
ROM will make the correct pattern of 
dots appear at the corresponding 
screen location. 

You can create a custom character 
set by instructing the system to use a 
section of RAM in place of the char- 
acter-generating ROM. Then, by 
turning dots on or off in the 8 by 8 



matrix that represents a character 
image (actually an 8-byte block in 
memory) you can design your own 
character set for foreign languages 
and technical or scientific applica- 
tions. 

The 64's memory-mapped display 
lets you use bit-mapped graphics. In 
this mode, each dot on the screen 
may also be represented by a bit in 
memory. Because each character is 
composed of an 8-byte block, the bit- 
mapping of the screen's 1000 blocks 
must contain 8000 bytes of memory, 
or 640,000 bits. Each of these bits can 
be turned on or off under program 
control. 

The Commodore 64's high-resolu- 
tion bit-mapped screen measures 320 
dots horizontally by 200 dots ver- 
tically and gives you a choice of two 
colors for each 8- by 8-dot character 
block. A multicolor bit-mapped 
mode allows a choice of eight dif- 
ferent colors for each block, but the 
resolution is reduced to 160 by 200 
dots. 

Sprites 

Sprites, which are also referred to 
as movable object blocks, are similar 
to the player/missile graphics used on 
the Atari 400/800 computers. A 
sprite is a user-definable character 
composed of 24 horizontal by 21 ver- 
tical dots (photo 3). Sprites, which 
are generated and controlled by the 
VIC-II chip, can be sculpted into any 
shape, given any of 16 colors, com- 
bined with any other graphics mode, 
and made to move about the screen. 
As such they are ideal for use in 
arcade-type games. Independent of 
normal graphics, they can be used 
from within a BASIC program. Each 
sprite has its own 63-byte location in 
memory and its own position and col- 
or registers. 

You can activate a sprite by enter- 
ing a 1 for the appropriate bit in the 
sprite register of the VIC-II chip. You 
then program its shape, enter a value 
for its color, and set its position on 
the screen. You define each move- 
ment by providing a new set of Carte- 
sian coordinates for its position. 

You can enlarge a sprite to twice its 
original dimensions, but its resolution 
drops when it is expanded to the max- 

Text continued on page 239 



CALL FOR OTHER SOFTWARE 

& HARDWARE PRICES FOR 
IBM-PC & APPLE COMPUTERS 



MC-P APPLICATIONS^ 

INTRODUCES SOFTWARE & HARDWARE 

AT UNBEATABLE PRICES 

WHY PAY MORE - COMPARE THESE PRICES 



LOTUS 
1-2-3 
$327 



WORDSTAR 
$267 



VISICALC MULTIPLAN dBase II 
$165 $168 $415 



LIST OUR 
APPLIED SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY 

VersaForm $389 $252 

VersaForm (hard disk) 495 323 

ASHTON TATE 

dBase 1 1 

Financial Planner 



BRODERBUND 
Bank Street Writer 

CONTINENTAL 

Home Accountant 

APPLE 

IBM 
Property Management 

HOWARDSOFT 

Real Estate Analyzer II 

APPLE 

IBM 
Creative Financing 

APPLE 

IBM 

LOTUS 

1-2-3 

MICROPRO 

Word Star 

APPLE 

IBM 
Spell Star 

APPLE 

IBM 
Mail Merge 

APPLE 

IBM 
Data Star 
Super Sort 
CalcStar 
Info Star 
Report Star 

MICROSOFT 

Multi Plan 

APPLE 

IBM 
Flight Simulator 

PBL CORPORATION 

Personal Investor 

PEACHTREE 

General Ledger 

APPLE 

IBM 
Account Payable 

APPLE 

IBM 



700 415 
700 452 

70 46 



75 49 
150 96 
495 320 



195 126 

250 162 

195 126 

250 162 

495 327 



495 267 

495 297 

250 149 

250 162 

250 135 

250 1 62 

295 176 

250 149 
145 86 

495 320 

350 221 



275 178 

275 168 

50 33 

145 94 



400 237 
600 355 



400 237 
600 355 



Account Receivable LIST OUR 

APPLE 400 237 

IBM 600 355 

Peach Pack 595 300 

SOFTWARE PUBLISHING 

Pfs:File 

APPLE 125 81 

IBM 140 91 

Pfs:Report 125 81 

SORCIM 

SuperCalc 195 130 

Super Writer 295 195 

SYNAPSE 

File Manager 150 97 

VISICORP 

Visicalc 250 165 
VisiFile 

APPLE 250 165 

IBM 300 198 

VisiTrend/Plot 300 198 

VisiSchedule 300 198 

VisiWord 300 $call 

VisiSpell 225 $call 

DeskTop Plan I 300 210 

ANCHOR AUTOMATION 

IBM Mark VI Modem Card 

(including software) 279 180 

Signalman Mark I Modem (RS-232) 99 75 
Mark VII (Autoanswer/Dial) 

(Req. RS-232 Interface) 159 103 

HARDWARE 

HAYES MICROCOMPUTER PRODUCTS 

Hayes Stack Chronograph (RS-232) 249 1 82 
Hayes Stack Smart Modem 

(RS-232) 
Smart Modem1200(RS-232) 
APPLE Micro Modem II 
APPLE Micro Modem II 

with Terminal Program 



289 214 

699 51 1 

379 264 

409 296 



TERMS: All prices subject to change. 
Cashier's check / MO / Bank Transfer 
Allow time for company or personal 
checks to clear. Prices reflect cash 
prepaid discount. VISA / MASTER 
CARD COD POs + 3%. California 
residents add sales tax. 
SHIPPING: $2 per item for UPS 

surface ($6 for Blue Label) within con- 
tinental USA. Circle 254 on inquiry card. 



LIST OUR 
ADVANCED LOGIC SYSTEMS (APPLE II) 

Z-Card 169 110 

Add-Ram 99 64 

Synergizer 750 483 

Dispatcher (Serial) 139 70 

PrinterMate (Parallel) 99 49 

CP/M Card (with CP/M 3.0) 399 300 

Smalltermll 179 135 

Color 1 1 179 135 

MICROSOFT 

Softcard (APPLE) 345 242 

Ram Card (APPLE) 100 70 

64-K Ram Card (IBM) 350 245 

256-K Ram Card (IBM) 875 612 

MPC PERIPHERALS (APPLE) 

Parallel Interface Card (w cable) 90 63 

Serial Interface Card 130 91 

NOVATION 

Apple-Cat II 389 260 

21 2 Apple-Cat 725 572 
21 2 Apple-Cat 

Upgrade Kit 389 313 

Cat 189 140 

D-Cat 199 154 

21 2 Auto Cat 695 561 

J-Cat 149 105 

Smart-Cat 103/1 21 595 416 

Smart-Cat 103 249 174 

PERSONAL COMPUTER PRODUCTS 
(APPLE) 

Appli-Card:GMHz 595 416 
Applipac: 4 MHz Applicard & 

Max 8 Cat. Card 620 334 

KRAFT 

Joystick 

IBM 

APPLE 
Paddle 

TG PRODUCT 
Joystick 

IBM 

APPLE 
Track Ball 

ELECTRONIC PROTECTION DEVICES 

Lemon 60 39 

Lime 90 58 

Orange 140 91 

Peach 98 63 



70 


46 


65 


42 


50 


33 


65 


42 


60 


39 


65 


42 



MC-P APPLICATIONS, 111 W. St. John Street, Suite 230G, San Jose, CA 95113 

HOURS: 8 to 6, Monday thru Saturday phone (408) 293-3360 



mm Ml mam omm mm tmmcs: 



■ hmrulxru 

mum- « 12 to* • • * ,im *"'* 
« Ml tin *t«trt*lr < 
• talJDD 8HSE m* 

« IkrMft KK ■ W. 5.Z 
i ax**- 3.1 tort frmnnf 

« #,«»rt Sulla* »«*»• 

• taHa! Ufctramc SraMwt 

• itrasur CwpllHt KK L 



~ 




Full size smart terminal with detachable keyboard 



4Mhz Z80A CPU 

64K RAM Mam Memory 

200Kbyte 5V 4 " floppy disk 

(Osborn, Xerox, IBM, CP/M-86 formats) 

Two serial ports 




Complete software package includes: 
WordStar word processing 
Correct-It spelling checker 
LogiCalc electronic spreadsheet 
Microsoft BASIC 
NorthStar compatible BAZIC 
CP/M 2.2 Operating System 



^, 



At $1790, this computer was selling like 
hotcakes. So we dropped the price. 



Crazy? No, not really. You see in order to meet the 
demand for the Micro Decision™ we increased our 
production. When we did that, our costs dropped. We're 
passing our savings on to you, because that's our 
philosophy. 
More for less. 

So now it only takes $1590 to buy a Micro Decision with 
64K of memory, a 200K double-density floppy drive and 
a full-size Morrow smart terminal with detachable key- 
board. Not bad. But there's more. 
The Micro Decision also includes a package of business 
and professional software worth well over $2000. The 
WordStar" word processor. A 36,000 word spelling 
checker. The LogiCalc™ electronic spreadsheet. And both 
Microsoft BASIC-80 181 and NorthStar-compatible BAZIC" 3 
Plus, the CP/M* 2.2 Operating System that gives you 
access to thousands of other software programs. And, 
we take the mystery out of CP/M with plain English 
commands and single-key operation. 



If you have your own terminal, you can buy the complete 
computer and software package for $995. That's the 
Micro Decision MD1™ The MD2™ includes another 
double-density disk drive, plus Personal PEARL™ the 
relational data base manager. Price? Only $1395. 
More memory? No problem. The Micro Decision MD3™ 
gives you two double-sided, double-density disk drives 
with 768K of storage and Personal PEARL for only 
$2490. Without the terminal, $1895. 
Come in for a complete demonstration at your nearest 
Morrow dealer. If you don't know who that is, call us 
toll-free at (800) 521-3493. In California, call (415) 430- 
1970. At $1790, the Micro Decision sold like hotcakes. 
At $1590, we've just sweetened the deal. 



MORROW 



MORROW, 600 McCormick Street, San Leandro, CA 94577 
(800) 521 3493, (415) 430-1970 In California 

Circle 284 on inquiry card. 



■ 




Micro Decision, MD1. MD2. and MD3 
are trademarks of Morrow 
WordStar is a registered trademark of MicroPro, I 
LogiCalc is a trademark of Software Products 
International 
BASIC-80 ts a registered trademark of Microsoft 
Corporation 
BAZIC is a registered trademark of Micro Mikes, Inc. 
Personal PEARL is a trademark of Relational Systems, Inc. 
CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 




SuperSof t FORTRAN 

Now for CP/M-86, MS DOS, and IBM PC DOS 



SuperSoft FORTRAN is the answer to 
the growing need for a high quality FORTRAN 
compiler running under CP/M-86 and IBM 
PC DOS. It has major advantages over other 
FORTRAN compilers for the 8086. For 
example, consider the benchmark program 
used to test the IBM FORTRAN in InfoWorld . 
p. 44, Oct. 25, 1982. (While the differential 
listed will not be the same for all benchmark 
programs, we feel it is a good indication of the 
quality of our compiler.) Results are as follows: 
IBM FORTRAN: 38.0 Seconds 

SuperSoft FORTRAN: 2.8 Seconds 
In its first release SuperSoft FORTRAN 
offers the following outstanding features: 

1 . Full ANSI 66 standard FORTRAN with 
important extensions 

2. Standard data types, double precision, 
varying string length, complex numbers 

3. Free format input and free format string 
output 

4. Compact object code and run time support 

5. Special functions include string functions, 
dynamic allocation, time/date, and video 
access 

6. Debug support: subscript checking, good 
runtime messages 

7. Full IEEE floating point 

8. Full 8087 support— available as option 
($50.00). 



Program developers: 



SuperSoft's family of FORTRAN compilers 
means you can write your programs once and 
they will run under CP/M-80, CP/M-86, and 
MS DOS. This lets you get your applications 
running fast no matter what the environment. 



The current compiler allows 64K code 
space and 64K data space with expansion 
anticipated in future releases. 




"At last, a FORTRAN compiler that works great on 
my 8086, 8087, and 8088 based systems!" 



SuperSoft FORTRAN: available 
NOW and working great! 

Requires: 128K with CP/M-86* 

and MS DOS 
Price: $425 (in each environment) 

CP/M-80 version also available. 



In conjunction with SuperSoft, SuperSoft FORTRAN 
was developed by Small Systems Services, Urbana, tl_, 
a leader in FORTRAN development. 

CP/M and CP/M-86 are registered trademarks of 
Digital Research. 

Japanese Distributor: ASR Corporation International, 
3-23-8, Nishi-Shimbashi, Minato-Ku. Tokyo 105, Japan, 
Tel. (03)-437571 Telex: 0242-2723, 

European Agent: Micro Technology Ltd., 51 The 
Pantiles, Tunbridge Wells, Kent, England TN2 5TH 
TEL 0892-45433. Telex: 95441 Micro-G. 
Circle 390 on inquiry card. 





SSJI 



FIRST IN SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY P.O.Box1628 Champaign, IL61820 (217)359-2112 Telex 270365 



imum size of 12 by 21 dot pairs. The 
resolution also drops when you use 
the multicolor mode (up to four col- 
ors for each sprite). 

Each sprite has a display priority. 
When sprites cross paths, one appears 
to pass behind the other. Sprite 1, for 
example, has a higher priority than 
sprite 6. If their positions intersect, 
sprite 1 appears to pass over sprite 6. 
This can give a three-dimensional ef- 
fect for games and graphics (photo 4). 

The VICTI chip can detect colli- 
sions between sprites or between 
sprites and background data — a 
handy feature for game designers. 
You can use PEEK commands to ex- 
amine the sprite-to-sprite or sprite-to- 
data collision registers in the VIC-II 
chip. Each sprite has a bit in this 
register; if that bit is a 1, that sprite is 
involved in a collision. The collision- 
detection feature simplifies the pro- 
gramming required for interactive 
arcade-type games. 

Sound and Music 

The Commodore 64 gives you 
something rare in a microcomputer — 
good sound. It uses the 6581 SID 
chip, a true music synthesizer that has 
been interfaced to a computer. The 
quality of the sound has to be heard 
to be believed. At first, I had used, the 
64 with a color television and was 
surprised to get good sound consider- 
ing that the signal had been run 
through the RF modulator and then 
demodulated by the TV receiver. 
When I heard the monophonic direct 
audio output amplified by my stereo 
system, I was even more impressed. 



Each of the SID's three voices can 
be programmed to sound like a dif- 
ferent musical instrument; you have a 
choice of organ, piano, harpsichord, 
woodwind and brass instruments, 
and special sound effects. Because the 
sound generation is under direct pro- 
gram control, you can custom design 
a sound to your liking. 

Separate tone and envelope genera- 
tors on the SID chip produce each 
voice over a nine-octave range. You 
can program the SID chip using 
POKE commands to memory loca- 
tions 54272 through 54296. 

To understand how the Commo- 
dore 64 produces sound, consider the 
following program that uses one 
voice to produce the note C in the 
fourth octave: 

5 REM SAMPLE SOUND PROGRAM 
10 POKE 54296,15 
20 POKE 54277,64 
30 POKE 54278,130 
40 POKE 54276,17 
50 POKE 54273,17:POKE 54272,37 
60 FOR T = l TO 250:NEXT 
70 POKE 54276,0:POKE 54277,0: 
POKE 54278,0 

To begin, enter a 15 into location 
54296 (line 10). This sets the volume 
at the highest level. Line 20 starts to 
define the envelope of the note. The 
envelope, a way of shaping the 
sound, defines the rate at which the 
amplitude of the note attacks (or 
rises) to its maximum volume, decays 
(or drops) in volume, the length of 
time it will be sustained, and finally 
the point at which it is released. Each 




Photo 3: Sprite editor display. Defining a 
sprite is just a matter of turning dots on or 
off. The actual size of the sprite is shown 
in the lower left corner. 




Photo 4: Sprite Priorities. In this still shot 
from an animated sequence, some of the 
sprites appear to pass in front of or behind 
the mountain. All of the sprites on the 
screen have different priorities to give the 
effect in three dimensions. 



musical instrument has a distinctive 
attack / decay / sustain / release ( ADSR ) 
envelope. If you look at an oscillo- 
scope display of a note played by a 
particular instrument, you can see the 
envelope for that instrument. 



The Statistical Package 7 



Factor Analysis • Stepwise Regression • Interfaces VisiCalc, dbMaster, Apple Plot, mainframes, dBase II, Super- 
Calc, etc. • Stepwise Discriminant Analysis • Analysis of Variance (1 and 2-way) • Probabilities • Mean, Stan- 
dard Deviation, etc. • T-Test on Means • Crosstabs • Frequencies • Histograms • Create, Correct and Update a 
Database • Simple Transformation language (Basic or Pascal) • Report Writer • Numeric Software Keypad 
• more ... 

Apple II, Apple II + , Apple lie, CP/M, ($200); CP/M 86 and IBM PC ($300). Ask about our version for the 8087 NDP. 



The Winchendon Group 



PO Box 10339, Alexandria, Virginia 22310 (703) 960-2587 MC/Visa 



Trademarks: VisiCalc: VisiCorp, dbMaster: Stone Software, dBase II: Ashton-Tate, SuperCalc: Sorcim, ELF-The Statistical Package: 
The Winchendon Group. 



Circle 444 on inquiry card. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 239 



Circle 356 on inquiry card. 




SYSTEMS CENTER 
SYSTEM 8/1 6A $4395 

SYSTEM 8/ "16B $5245 

SYSTEM 8/ 1BC $6745 

* FULLY ASSEMBLED AND TESTED * 
Lease-Purchase/Maintenance Avail. 

MORROW OE5IGN5 f] 

MICROOECISION 2 CALL 

with/Microsoft Basic, Bazic. 
Wordstar 3.0, Logical, Correct-it 
speller. Personal Pearl Data base 
manager. CP/M PILOT 

Cromemco c-10 $1525 

EdGLE II $2339 



PERIPHERALS - BOARDS: 

LIBERTY FREEDOM 100 

(emulates Televideo 925) CALL 

PARA DYNAMICS 
INDUSTRIAL QUALITY MAINFRAMES CALL 
VOTRAX SPEECH SYSTEM $ 275 
SSM TRANSMODEM 1200 $ 519 
[RACAL-VADIC] 



CCS Z80CPU 

FULCRUM 64K Static Ram- 

Runs 8 MHZ ZBO CPU 

Bank Select/Ext. Address 

SCION Micro Angelo MA520 

POATE Eg M 

1st MATE B4K + Serial + 



$ 239 



$ 395 
$ 965 



$295 



SD SYSTEMS 3 BD SET 

w/1 yr warranty: 

SBC 200 W/MONITOR PROM 

VERSAFLOPPY II w/CP/M3.0 

256 K EXPANDORAM III $1295.00 

NOVATION J-CAT $12500 

ADDS VIEWPOINT 3A+ $485.00 

TALLY MT160L PRINTER CALL 

TARBELL DD CONTROLLER $396.00 

FLOPPY DISK DRIVES 



landon 100-2 $249.00 

^1111116(9 842 $465.00 

242 $450.00 

FULL DEALER SUPPORT 

VISIT OUR SHOWROOM 

Hrs. 9:00 A.M.-S:30 P.M. M-F 

Subject to Available Quantities 

Prices Quoted Include Cash Discounts 

Shipping & Insurance Extra 



T G 



©1 



S-iOQ 



Est. 1977 



14485 North 79th Straat, Suita B 
Scottadala, Arizona 85860 

TELEX 165085 

TECHNICAL 608-981-7870 

SALES 800-588-3138 



Line 20 sets a high attack rate and a 
low decay rate. (The number is 
broken into 8 bits: the high-order bits 
set the attack, while the low-order 
bits set the decay.) That value, 64, is 
entered into location 54277. Line 30 
enters the sustain /release rate, which 
lets you prolong the note. Again, as 
in line 20, the two values are repre- 
sented by one number. The number 
128 produces a long sustain and a 
short release. 

Line 40 sets the waveform of the 
note in one of four shapes: sawtooth, 
triangle, pulse, and white noise. 
Sawtooth waves contain a lot of har- 
monics and are good for simulating 
horns or string instruments. Triangle 
waves produce flute-like sounds. 
Pulse waves can simulate many dif- 
ferent sounds depending on the pulse 
width. A square wave will produce a 
woodwind sound similar to a 
clarinet. A very narrow pulse will 
produce a sound similar to an oboe or 
bassoon. White noise is used for pro- 
ducing untuned sounds such as per- 
cussion instruments. Line 40 uses a 
triangle waveform. 

Line 50 performs two functions: the 
two memory locations 54273 and 
54272 determine the voice to be used, 
while the values 17 and 37 determine 
the note to be played (in this case a 
quarter note). Finally, line 70 clears 
all previously used memory locations 
in preparation for playing another 
note. 

The Commodore 64 has a few more 
musical tricks up its sleeve: the har- 
monic content of a note can be altered 
by filtering. The SID chip has three 
different filters: high-pass, low-pass, 
and bandpass. As you might expect, 
the high-pass filter allows only fre- 
quencies above a certain value to get 
through, the low-pass filter allows 
only frequencies below a certain 
value to get through, and the band- 
pass filter lets through only frequen- 
cies of a specified range. As men- 
tioned previously, generating and 
altering sound is done with POKE 
commands. The filters give you 
another method of shaping the 
sound. 

The Commodore 64 has an audio 
input line. You can take an audio 
signal from an electric guitar, for ex- 



ample, and process it through the 64. 
There the signal can be filtered or 
combined with one or more voices to 
create a unique sound. In effect, the 
64 is both a synthesizer and pro- 
cessor. Using POKE commands is 
somewhat distracting but the 64's ver- 
sion of BASIC does not have any 
commands for controlling sound 
directly from within a BASIC pro- 
gram. 

BASIC 

It's a pity Commodore saddled 
such a fine computer with its inade- 
quate Commodore BASIC 2.0. An 
8K-byte interpreted BASIC, it is a 
subset of the standard Microsoft 
BASIC and uses its own commands 
for file handling and I/O. Most 
BASIC instructions can be abbre- 
viated to just two letters. A program 
written using this abbreviated tech- 
nique displays BASIC commands as a 
letter and graphics symbol. A Com- 
modore 64 program may be difficult 
to understand unless you've memo- 
rized all the abbreviations. Program 
lines are limited to 80 characters. 
Only the first two letters in a variable 
name are used. Obviously, Com- 
modore feels that most home users 
will be running prepackaged soft- 
ware — there is no provision for using 
graphics (or sound as mentioned 
above) from within a BASIC program 
except by means of POKE com- 
mands. 

The one bright point in program- 
ming the Commodore 64 is its very 
powerful screen editor. Once you 
have written a BASIC program, you 
can move your cursor through the 
program and make corrections by 
typing over the previously entered 
characters. A modified line can be in- 
serted into a program by simply posi- 
tioning the cursor on that line and 
pressing the Enter key. You can use 
the Insert /Delete key to add or 
remove characters from a line. 

In addition, the editor has a unique 
"quote mode." If the cursor is posi- 
tioned to the right of an odd number 
of quote marks fri a program line, you 
can enter cursor control and color 
control codes within strings. When 
the text within the string is printed on 
the screen, the cursor and color con- 



240 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 209 on inquiry card. 



The IS PipeLine'" makes printing a 

COMMAND PERFORMANCE 



< ^P^S3fp 



/• 



2f * I 



YOU are in command 
with the IS PipeLine M 
Random Access 
Printing Buffer 

Now you can "orchestrate" a masterpiece with 
your tavorite computer programs . . . "play" all 
your software together. 

The PipeLine is a printing processor which connects 
your computer or terminal to your printer. It teaches 
your tavorite soloists (your word processor program, 
spreadsheet program, or graphics 

program) to print together. At last, you 

J don't need scissors and paste to 
compose a printed masterpiece. 
The PipeLine also gives you 
"variations on a theme". . . insert 
pictures, graphics, text or spread- 
sheet data into reports; insert 
different names and addresses on 
form letters; save paragraphs or 
pictures for printing later— in any 
order— any number of times. 

Of course, the PipeLine also handles 
old "standards" such as FIFO buffer- 
ing, first in— first out, (what other buffers 
call "intelligent") as well as Bypass 
printing (quick access to your printer 
at any time during long-term 
buffer operations). 
i You can easily expand the PipeLine 

(from 8K to 128K Bytes. Of course, 
v PipeLine compresses your data, 
so you'll need less memory than 
your might expect. 
A simple erase feature clears the 
buffer. An automatic duplication capability lets 
you print the exact number of copies you want. 
The IS PipeLine is universal-it works with any 
parallel (Centronics* standard) computer/printer 
combination. It is a self-contained unit with its 
own power supply and comes complete with oper- 
ating manual and cables. 
Get the best performance from your computer, 
your printer, your software and your time— Get the 
IS PipeLine Random Access Printing Buffer! 

For more information, send for our 
free 1983 Catalog 



Interactive Structures Inc. 
146 Montgomery Avenue 
Bala Cynwyd, PA 19004 
Telephone: (215) 667-1713 

The IS PipeLine is Patent Pending. 
•Centronics is a trademark ot Centronics Data Computer Corp. 



Circle 354 on inquiry card. 



S-100 Boards from S. C. Digital 




lttellimu 



tl£\N 80186 CPU BOARD 
features: Model: 80186 CPU 

• Intel 80186 Based • Executes 8086 codes plus 10 
additional • built in DMA channels, timers, interrupt 
controller • Interface to Numeric Data Processor, 8087 • 8 
or 1 6 bit data transfer, with 4 or 8 MHZ clock • Provision to 
run 2 different CPU's on the bus, such as our M:Z80 CPU. 

Z80B CPU BOARD 

features: Model Z80 CPU 

• 2, 4 or 6 mhz clock. • 22 bit Address by Memory 
Mapping in 16K blocks. • 2 or 4Kbyte EPROM (not 
supplied) with Phantom generation. • Jump on Reset. • 
Provision to run two different CPU's on the same bus, such 
model 8186 CPU. 

FLOPPY DISK CONTROLLER 

features: Model FDC1 

• Single or Double density, sides, in any combination of up 
to four 8" or 5.25" drives. • Digital phase locked loop. 

• DMA data transfer with cross 64K boundaries, 24B 
address, DMA arbitation. • Monitor/boot EPROM accomo- 
dating two different processors. • CPM Bios programs. 

• Serial port to 19.2K baud. 




256K DYNAMIC RAM 
features: Model 256KZ 

• 8/1 6B Data, 24B Address. • Parity bit per Byte • 
Transparent refresh • Unlimited DMA • 180nsec. Access 
time • Will run 8086, 8088, 68000 to 8mhz, Z80, Z8000 
to 6mhz without wait states. 

64K STATIC RAM 

features: Model 64KS 

• 8/1 6B Data 24B Address • Disable in 2K increments • 
180nsec Access Time (with 64KB) from address on, runs 
8086, 68000 to 10mhz, Z80, Z8000 to 8mhz without wait 
states • Battery back up capable. 

Board Sets: For Limited Time Only! 

• Z80B CPU, DMA Floppy Controller, CP/M 2.2, 64KB 
Static Ram SI, 000 

• Z80B CPU, DMA Floppy Controller, CP/M 2.2, 250KB 
Ram SI, 250 

• For CP/M Plus instead of 2.2 add S50 
Please call for latest prices. 

All boards conform to IEEE696/S100 specifications, fully 
socketed, screened legends, masks, Gold contacts. Guaranteed 
One Full Year. 



80186 CPU 


S595 


16 Bil CPU 


Z80 CPU 


S325 


Memory Mapping. 6 mhz 


fOC 1 


S395 


Monitor EPfiOM 


256KZ 


S695 


256KB, Parity 


256KZ-128 


S595 


428KB, Parity 


64KS 


S425 


64KB, CMOS 


32KUSM 


S295 


32KB. CMOS 


3SPC 


S259 


3 serial, 1 parallel cassette 


CP M 22 


S55 


Purchased with FOCI 


CP'M Plus 


SlOb 


Purchased with FDC1 


ZSG Monitor 


S55 


2K in EPROM, source cude, tot 35PC 



All Boards come assembled and tested. 

Delivery is within 3 to 5 working days. MC, Visa or COD 
orders accepted. (Add S6 for COD orders) Illinois residents 
add b'A% sales tax. 

*CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 
OEM & DEALER PRICE AVAILABLE 

S.C. DIGITAL, INC. 

1240 N. Highland Ave., Suite #4 

P. 0. Box 906. Aurora, Illinois 60507 

Phone: (312) 897-7749 



trol codes automatically perform 
their tasks. This gives you another 
way to control screen displays. 

Because the Commodore 64's ver- 
sion of BASIC makes extensive use of 
graphics and reverse-letter charac- 
ters, you might have a problem when 
you want to print a program. Most 
printers can't handle Commodore 
graphics. Only the VIC-1525 Graphic 
Printer is designed explicitly for use 
with the Commodore 64. (If you are 
interested in connecting other printers 
to the Commodore 64, see "The En- 
hanced VIC-20, Part 3: Interfacing an 
MX-80 Printer," by Joel Swank, April 
1983 BYTE, page 260.) 

Data Storage 

The Commodore 64 uses the 
VIC-1530 Datassette cassette recorder 
for data storage. The Datassette is 
adequate for someone who wants to 
load an occasional game or use a cas- 



Havfng the DOS in 

ROM simplifies disk 

operations and saves 

computer memory and 

space on the disk. 



sette-based word-processing pro- 
gram. But for users who don't like the 
limitations of cassette storage, Com- 
modore offers the VIC-1541 disk 
drive, a smart peripheral with its own 
6502 microprocessor (to control I/O), 
2K bytes of RAM, and a disk operat- 
ing system (DOS) in 16K bytes of 
ROM. The drive uses standard 5Vi- 
inch single-density single-sided flop- 
py disks for a storage capacity of 
170K bytes per formatted disk. 

Having the DOS in ROM simplifies 
disk operations and saves both the 
computer's memory and space on the 
disk. This means that every disk con- 
tains data only and that you never 
have to worry about accidentally de- 
stroying the DOS. Of course, you'll 
have to use Commodore's DOS 
unless you change the ROM. 



The DOS commands are extensions 
of the same commands used with the 
Datassette recorder. For example, to 
load a disk program called SAMPLE, 
you would type the command 

LOAD "SAMPLE",8 

The 8 at the end of the command is 
the device number of the disk drive. 
This number is hard-wired into the 
disk drive, but it can be changed tem- 
porarily by a software command. 

You must load a directory of the 
disk into the Commodore 64 as if it 
were a BASIC program. You use the 
command 

LOAD "$",8 

Then type LIST to see the directory 
display. The disk-drive manual lists 
some utility programs that will pro- 
duce a directory with a little more 
ease. Or you can use the WEDGE 
program, included with the 1541 disk 
drive, that will allow you to use 
shorthand commands to load and 
save files, see a directory, etc. How- 
ever, this is still an awkward way to 
access a disk when compared to com- 
mands used with disk operating sys- 
tems such as TRSDOS or CP/M. 

Files 

The 64 supports sequential, ran- 
dom, and relative disk files. Sequen- 
tial files are recorded serially on the 
disk as if they were being saved on a 
cassette tape. Random-access files are 
treated as one (or more) 256-byte 
blocks of data, with each block saved 
in a single disk sector. Relative files 
are organized into records that can be 
read or replaced within a file. They 
make use of what Commodore calls 
"side sectors," actually a series of in- 
dexes that act as pointers to the par- 
ticular sectors associated with the file. 
Using this method, one file fills an en- 
tire disk. 

The disk drive uses the 64's serial 
port. Because data is sent to the disk 
one bit at a time, disk operation is 
very slow. I found it to be even 
slower than the Atari 810 drive. Also, 
Commodore's method of writing 256- 
byte blocks of data to the internal 



242 July 1983 © BVTE Publicatiora Inc 



» * "LOWEST PRICES" •• 




SMITH CORONA 
LETTER QUALITY PRINTERS 
SMITH CORONA TP1 June Special $514 
Less June & July Mfg. Rebate . . . . 50 
ONLY $464 
STARWRITER 40 CPS S or P . . $1274 
PRINTMASTER 55 CPS S or P 1544 
NEC 3510 33 CPS SERIAL 1386 

DOT MATRIX PRINTERS 

GORILLA BANANA Graphics $221 

EPSON 

MX-80w/GraphicsRom+,80cps .. 427 

FX-80 Friction & Tractor 160cps . . 595 

MX-100 Friction & Tract. 100cps . . 653 
STAR MICRONICS 

GEMINI 10 2.3K Buffer 100 cps . . 329 

GEMINI 15 15" Carriage 494 

OKIDATA 

82A Serial & Parallel 120 cps 404 

84 Parallel 15" Fr&Tr 200 cps 960 

92 Parallel 10" Fr&Tr 160 cps 501 

PROWRITER 8510 10"Par 120cps 404 
8600-Near Letter Quality Par 1031 

PRISM 80 756 




c_..._ 

SUPERBRAIN 

SUPERBRAIN II 

DOUBLE DENSITY $1970 

QUAD DENSITY 2376 

SUPER DENSITY 2684 

COMPUSTARS FOR NETWORKING 

VPU-10 $1540 

VPU-20 2284 

VPU-30 2656 

VPU-40 3029 

DSS-10 3029 

AMERICAN SQUARE COMPUTERS is 
organizing a World Wide Association 
of Computer Dealers. Open a Store or 
Start Work Out of Your Home! We 
Charge NO FRANCHISE FEE! (Our 
Competitors charge a FRANCHISE FEE 
of from $15,000.00 to $45,000.00.) Be a 
Winner! Let US help YOU get started 
MAKING MONEY by HELPING 
PEOPLE to put COMPUTERS to WORK. 
Write or Phone today. 

Which Computers are Best? . . . Free 

Insured Shipping at Low Rates. 



ADVANCED DIGITAL 

S-100 SUPER QUAD SINGLE BOARD 
COMPUTER Z-80 64K RS232 DISK 
CONTROLLER FOR 5" OR 8" . . $474 
SUPER SLAVE 128K + PS NET/1 . . 437 

SUPER SIX/128 6 MHZ 128K 555 

TURBODOS SINGLE USER 250 

SUPER SYSTEM-DD-8 2327 

SUPER SYSTEM-8-HD-10 3920 

ALTOS COMPUTERS 

8000-2 64K RAM $2680 

8000-15 208K RAM 3653 

8000-10 208K RAM 5571 

5-15D 3 USER 2 5 1/4" 2201 

5-5D 3 USER HARD DISK 4379 

8600-12 16 BIT 20 MB HD 9104 

COMMODORE 64 CALL 

ATARI 400 w/Rebate Coupon $149 

ATARI 800 655 

TRAXX 5 1/4" ADD ON DRIVES 

Bare drive SSDD Quantity 2 Ea . . .215 
SSDD w/cabinet & power sup 312 




TELEVIDEO 



TERMINALS 

TELEVIDEO 910 OR 910+ $538 

TELEVIDEO 925 Detach Keybd . . 674 
TELEVIDEO 950 Prog func keys . . 863 
TELEVIDEO 970 VT-100 compat. . . 935 
ADDS Viewpoint 3A+ Emulates 458 

ADDS Viewpoint 60 Graphics 620 

ADDS Viewpoint 90 Prog. EPROM 820 

ADDS Color Terminal NEW! 998 

Zenith Z-29 Z19&VT100 compat 655 
Zenith ZT-1 Terminal+modem 460 

Visual 50 Ergonomic $545 

Visual 55 New! Enhanced #50 626 

Visual 100 80/132 columns 890 

Visual 200 Tilts&detach keybd ... 761 
Visual 330 VT52&Haz1500 comp 782 
Visual 400 ANSI X3.64 compat . . 1074 
Visual 500 Graphics 14" screen 1646 

MONITORS 
ZENITH 

ZVM 121 Green Phosphor $123 

ZVM RGB Color Monitor 545 

GDZ-13-14 Composite Color 325 

NEC 

JC1201M 12" Composite Color $378 
JC1202DHA 12" RGB Color Mon. 810 
JB1201M 12" Green phosphor 176 

AMDEK 

Color I Color monitor $321 

300G 12" Green 165 



GRAPHICS & COLOR GRAPHICS 

VECTRIX 

VX 128 8 colors 322x560 Pix. . . . $2245 

VX 384 16.8 million colors 3865 

VXM Hi Res. 13" RGB Monitor . . 1430 

MICROANGELO 

MA 512 512x480 Monochrome . . $674 
MA 520 512x480 + Screen Pak2 . . 890 

COMPUTERS 
COMPUPRO 

Compupro computers come as main- 
frame, boards, and drives, and you must 
set the switches. 

816A Computer 8085/8088 128K $3964 
816B Computer 8085/8088 256K 5038 
816C 8085/8088 384K 3 users . . . 6470 

816D 10 MHz 8086 512K 10052 

816-08 CPUZ 208K Oasis 6471 

816-016 10 MHZ 8086 512K .... 10052 

SEATTLE Pure 16 bit computer is the 
fastest microcomputer by actual test! 
S-100, 128K Static Ram, 8 MHz 8086 18 
slot, Mainframe, 3 serial & 1 parallel 
ports. 

Gazelle II computer $4346 

Hard Disk Gazelle II 5750 

RADIO SHACK TRS-80 SAVE! CALL 

TARBELL with 2-8" disk drives 

EMPIRE I single sided $3304 

EMPIRE II double sided 3775 

MEDICAL SOFTWARE 

MICROMED & MICRODENT ... 1656 

STARDOC 350 

THE DOCTOR'S OFFICE NEW! CALL 




NORTH STAR ADVANTAGE 

North Star Advantage 8 BIT 8/16 

Work Station $1918 $2281 

2 Floppies 360K ea 2252 2542 

5 Mb Hard ♦ 360K Floppy 3362 3652 

15 Mb Hard + 360K Floppy 4385 4748 

NORTH STAR HORIZON 

HORIZON 1 User Multi 

2 Floppies 360K ea. . . . $2252 N/A 

5 Mb Hard & Floppy 3362 $6095 

15 Mb Hard + Floppy 4385 6821 

18 Mb Hard + Floppy 5837 8273 




■*■•■•■• ' - 



Micro Decision II 
MICRO DECISION 

"A DEAL YOU CANT REFUSE" 

64K RAM Z80 4MHz 2 serial ports 

5 1/4" disks Free Software — CPM 2.2 
Microsoft Basic, BaZic, WordStar 
LogiCalc spreadsheet, Correct-it 

ONLY 

MD1 1 single sided 5 1/4" $818 

MD1 +ADDS 3A+ Terminal 1269 

MD1 +ADDS 3A+ +Smith Corona 1769 

MD2 2-5" SS drvs + Per. Pearl . . . 1148 

MD2 +ADDS 3A+ Terminal 1599 

MD2 +ADDS 3A+ +Smith Corona 2099 

MD3 2 sided drives & Bookkeeping 

6 Personal Pearl. FANTASTIC BUY 

MD3 2 Double sided drives 1566 

MD3 +ADDS 3A+ Terminal 2019 

MD3 +ADDS 3A+ +Smith Corona 2519 
Above Packages include all Cables 

DECISION 1 

"IBM-360 on the Z-80 & S-100 Bus!" 
Sixteen programs running simultan- 
eously! FREE CPM. Microsoft Basic. 
S-100, IEEE 696. 14-slot, 4 MHz Z80 
Real time clock, Interrupts, 3 Serial 
& 1 parallel port, 64K static RAM ex- 
pandable to 1 Megabyte. 
D1 Hardware&Software as above$1712 
D2 Has 2 DSDD 5 1/4" drives . . . 2485 
D3A 1 DSDD 5 1/4" +5 Mb Hard Disk 
+Wordstar, Correct-It, LogiCalc, 
BaZic, and Personal Pearl 

D3A w/5 Mb Hard Disk 3120 

D3C w/15 Mb Hard Disk 3822 

MOS Multi user upgrade 3-64K RAMS 
+Micronix operating system .... 1432 

MOS+ with above & Whitesmith's C 
& Pascal 1783 

MORROW DISK DRIVES 

Complete systems include S-100 con- 
troller, power supply, cabinet, & fan, 
CPM & Basic 80. 

Add Drives include power supply, cabi- 
net & fan. Add 
System Drive 
51/4" Winchester 5Mb $1572 $1151 
51/4" Winchester 15Mb 2485 2064 
8" Winchester 10Mb 2625 2134 
8" Winchester 20Mb 3187 2766 
14" Winchester 26Mb 3187 2766 
8" (w/DMA controller) 

One 1 sided $870 $576 

One 2 sided 1081 800 

Two 1 sided 1418 1011 

Two 2 sided 1839 1432 



Call for latest prices & availability 



AMERICAN 




ISQUARE 



919-889-4577 

Circle 24 on inquiry card. 



4167KivettDr 




Factory Guarantees We Beat Prices 

COMPUTERS 



Jamestown N.C. 27282 



919-883-1105 

BYTE July 1983 243 



RAM and then finally writing the 
data to disk slows down disk opera- 
tion. Up to five drives may be 
chained together and used simultan- 
eously. Disks created on the 1540 
drive and the older CBM 4040 can be 
read by the 1541 drive. 

Documentation 

The User's Guide, which is heavy 
on programming, is a good introduc- 
tion to the 64's features. It has all the 
essential information required for 
working with BASIC, graphics, and 
sound. But it doesn't contain enough 
information about working with pe- 
ripherals or connecting the computer 
to an audio system or video monitor. 

The optional Programmer's Refer- 
ence Guide, a 487-page informative 
book, is essential for anyone serious 
about programming the 64. It covers 
the same material as does the User's 
Guide, but in greater depth and 
detail. Many sample programs are 
listed and discussed that help to ex- 
plain the operation of the Com- 
modore 64's special features. One sec- 



tion gives the specifications for each 
LSI (large-scale integration) chip used 
in the computer; it also includes a 
schematic of the Commodore 64, but 
it's not complete enough to use as a 
repair guide. 

My only complaint about the 
Reference Guide is the lack of infor- 
mation on using disk drives for data 

A great many PET 

BASIC 2.0 programs can 

be easily transferred to 

the 64, and emulator 

programs give you even 

more software. 

storage. Apparently Commodore 
believes that the manual included 
with the 1541 is sufficient (it's not), 
and that if you don't own a drive, 
you don't need the information. 
Another not-so-surprising omission is 
the lack of information on using 
CP/M with the Commodore 64. It 
was merely mentioned in several 



pages. I expect more complete docu- 
mentation to be included with the 
plug-in Z80 cartridge. 

Software 

The availability of software can 
make or break a computer. In this 
respect, Commodore 64 owners are 
fortunate. A great many PET BASIC 
2.0 programs can be easily trans- 
ferred to the 64. And Commodore of- 
fers the PET Emulator program that 
lets you load a substantial portion of 
PET programs into the 64. It converts 
memory addresses used with the PET 
to those used with the 64. 

You can get also an Apple II 
emulator, a combination of software 
and hardware available from Home 
Computer Services, 2028 West 
Camelback Rd., Phoenix, AZ 85015. 
The company says the emulator 
allows you to load and run Apple II 
programs with your Commodore 64. 
I'll reserve judgment until I have a 
chance to work with the product. 

The Commodore software catalog 
for the 64 has a listing for an Easydisk 




THIS AD WRITTEN FOR YOU... 

BYTE INDUSTRIES WANTS TO BE YOUR COMPUTER CONNECTION 

' Byte Industries is your one STOP shopping place for over 50 lines of 
microcomputers, terminals, printers and various other computer 
peripherals and accessories. Byte won't leave you at a STOP waiting 
for equipment to complete a sale. If you call in your order by 
1:00 PST, we'll ship it out THE SAME DAY! 

Byte Industries is searching for qualified Computer Dealers in the 
business of reselling the product we stock. If you're such a Dealer, 
you may have just found the best wholesale "Computer 
Connection" available. 



BYTE INDUSTRIES IS THE AUTHORIZED COMPUPRO DISTRIBUTOR 

£Z2a 



I am in the business of reselling computers and related products. I would like a sales 
representative to contact me and tell me how I can receive my free Wholesale Pricelist and 
open a Dealer Account. 

Name: 

Store Name: ~ — 

Address: 

City: Stale: 



_Zlp: 



i Byte 



Return to: Byte Industries. Inc. (415) 783-8272 
21130 Cabot Blvd.. Hayward. CA 94545 




244 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 58 on inquiry card. 



WILD HARE 







Win in the race for productivity by teaming up with 
Wild Hare. OurTSS software enhancer makes your 
system as productive as a rabbit. 

Wild Hare's operating system enhancement gives 
Data General NOVA® and ECLIPSE® users the most 
from their system. TSS allows you to transform 
RDOS, ICOS (CS/COBOL) and INFOS® into 
true multi-lingual, multi-user Time Sharing 
Systems. 

This state-of-the-art system accommodates 
up to 26 users. Each user can independently 
edit, compile and execute programs using the 



■•XJn 



language of his choice, like FORTRAN, ALGOL, 
BASIC, COBOL, Pascal, Assembler and more. 

TSS combines RDOS, INFOS® and ICOS compat- 
ibilities with AOS capabilities at a mere fraction 
of the cost. 

In the race for productivity, Wild Hare gives you 
the edge by multiplying the capabilities of your 
Data General system. So start things hopping 
with a 30-day trial run. Remember, slow and 
steady could eventually win the race. But it 
takes a Wild Hare in the program for a truly 
productive finish. 



wildlhare 

COMPUTER SYSTEMS INC. 



P.O. Box 3581 Boulder, CO 80307 303-442 0324 TWX:9IO-940-25l8 
Circle 443 on inquiry card. 



NOVA*. ECLIPSE* and INFOS* are registered trademarks of Data General Corporation. 

BYTE July 1983 245 



64, a collection of utility programs 
and editors for sound and graphics, 
and Easygraphics 64, a utility pro- 
gram that extends BASIC by giving 
you several simple commands to con- 
trol sound and graphics without the 
use of POKE commands. These pro- 
grams were not available in April but 
should be by the time you read this. 
Although the 64 is essentially a 
home computer, Commodore is of- 
fering several business-oriented soft- 
ware packages for it. Designated as 



part of the "Easy" group, they include 
Easycalc 64, an electronic spreadsheet 
program; Easyfile 64 for database 
management; Easyplot 64 for busi- 
ness graphics; and Easyschedule 64, a 
time-scheduling program. 

Considering the sophistication of 
the 64's graphics, the one package I 
most want to try is Logo. As de- 
scribed by Commodore, its version of 
Logo will be similar to Terrapin Logo 
for the Apple II, except that it will 
take full advantage of sprite graphics 




2723 W. Windrose Suite 3 
Phoenix, Arizona 85029 

1-800-528-8960 



OKIDATA 
I 



All Prices Subject To Change 



ALTOS 

5-1 5D - $21 20 5-5D - $3985 

580-10 - $4695 586-10 - $5698 

580-14 - $9395 8600-12 - $8950 

NORTHSTAR 

Advantage - $2250 280A-$1950 
5m Byte - S3350 15m Byte - $4499 

TELEVIDIO 

802 - $2599 802H - $4450 
806 $4950 800A - $1 250 

803 - $1890 1603 - $2695 
APPLE-LOOK-ALIKE 

CALL 



APPLE CARDS 



16KRAM-$78 Z80 CARD - $235 

Videx Card - $227 Viewmax-80 - $1 75 
Microsoft Prem. Pk - $475 



PRINTERS 



OKIDATA 

M92A - $480 M93A - $830 

M82A $385 W/Tractor & Grap. - $465 
M84P $965 M848-$CALL 

Pacemark 2350P - $1999 

CITOH 

F10 40 cps - $1170 F10 55cps - $1580 
1 550P - $659 1 550CD - $709 

851 OP - $399 8510BCD - $499 

DATASOUTH 
D$120-$595 DS180-$1175 

DIABLO 

630RO-$1749 620 $895 

NEC 

8023 - $425 7710- $2045 

3510 --$1375 3550 --$1834 

TRANSTAR 

140 - $1290 130P - $715 



SOFTWARE 



All Major Brands 
25% off List 
$ CALL 



DISK DRIVE 



Microsci Apple Dr. - $265 

Rana Elite I - $275 

Rana Elite III - $550 

Rana 1000 - $375 

)EM - $263 



DISKETTES/BOXES 



GUARANTEED 
LOW PRICES 



TERMINALS 



ADDS 

A1 - $485 Viewpoint A3 - $485 

HAZELTIIME 

1500 -$995 ESPRIT -$498 

TELEVIDEO 

910 -$569 925 -$718 

970 -$1040 950 -$899 

ZENITH 
Z19- $670 Z89- $2129 



MONITORS 



Amdek 300- $135 



Color I - $295 



Amdek Color II - $625 Amber $149 



ireen — $85 



USI Amber- $149 



'S COMPLETE LINE 
(150ns) S6.50ea. 



Customer Service 
602-863-0759 



and color. Logo on the Commodore 
64 should be a natural for schools. 
(The August 1982 BYTE was devoted 
to the Logo language.) 

Speaking of schools, Commodore 
has announced its version of PILOT, 
a language designed specifically for 
use in education. Commodore claims 
that its PILOT is based on a "com- 
mon" version of the language. One 
hopes that this will allow many exist- 
ing programs to be used with the 64. 

Of course, the programs I have 
mentioned here represent just a small 
portion of the software available for 
the 64. A quick glance through BYTE 
and other magazines shows that soft- 
ware publishers recognize the sig- 
nificance of the machine. 

Complaints 

My biggest complaint is with Com- 
modore's quality control. I had to 
return two computers before I got one 
that didn't have display problems. 
Evidently, the fault was in the video 
output or RF modulator circuitry. If I 
used a defective unit for more than 15 
minutes, the display on the TV would 
begin to break up and distort. I know 
that early production models often 
have a few bugs, but it's discouraging 
to think of first-time computer users 
having to figure out what's wrong 
with their new system on top of learn- 
ing how to use it. 

Conclusions 

The Commodore 64 is a good in- 
troductory machine. It has something 
for almost every type of user. Its 
range of features make it equally suit- 
able for me and my 5-year-old 
daughter to use. The color and graph- 
ics make games and educational soft- 
ware interesting enough to hold a 
child's attention, yet it has enough so- 
phisticated features to allow me to do 
productive work such as word pro- 
cessing and home finances. 

With the right price, plenty of 
available software, and numerous de- 
sirable features, the Commodore 64 is 
an impressive machine. ■ 



About the Author 

Stan Wszola is a technical editor of BYTE. 



246 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 165 on inquiry card. 




Add-In Hard Disk Storage for IBM PC 



rhe "PC Pair" I ; hat i • itsk storage to IBM® PC for less money Less than IBM. 
* Hfnd all you have to do is plug it in. 

Plug the Br in any of five IBM 5150 bus I/O slots. Slip the 

megat «disk into the PC's second floppy slot. Plug in the 

nbling ■of tware carried on the supplied diskette. You've 

got five megabytes of fast, reliable hard disk storage. 

I Ps a great package at a great price. Available now from Hamilton-Avnet. 
Ask for the "PC Pair." 

CONTACT YOUR LOCAL HAMILTON/AVNET OFFICE OR 
Bob Claborne, Hamilton/Avnet 213-615-3915 

Circle 126 on inquiry card. 



IBM" PC Is a trademark of IBM Corporation. 



Hardware Review 



The Strobe Plotting System 



by Jack Bishop 



Business and scientific reports are not light reading. 
Long ago someone found that graphs and charts are less 
boring and more informative than long lists of numbers. 
This discovery was enthusiastically received by readers 
but not by authors, who were faced with choosing the 
format and plotting each point laboriously for every 
graph. As a result, the sales of graph paper must have 
soared as authors drew and redrew to make a graph that 
truly told a story. Artisans labored over each point, 
working with sheets of paper, tape, and a razor blade to 
improve the quality of the product. A chart or two per 
day was a reasonable standard of productivity. 

Several years ago, powerful graphing program pack- 
ages appeared for mainframe computers (e.g., Plot 10, 
Displa, Telegraph, SAS/Graph). With these packages, 
authors could create complex graphs quickly, easily, and 
accurately. They were still faced with spending $15,000 
for a computer system to produce the graphs, but the 
quality and quantity of output justified the cost for many 
large companies. 

The advent of the microcomputer with its ability to 
dump graphics to a low-cost dot-matrix printer or plotter 
brings efficient graphing power within the price range of 
a whole new set of users. The quality may fall short of the 
multicolor design and precise positioning available on the 
more expensive plotters but is far better than the crude, 
labor-intensive alternatives available to this point. The 
convenience of the new microcomputer software more 
than compensates for the lack of flexibility and power 
you get from a $50,000 plotting package. In fact, the plot- 
ting packages available for mainframes and timesharing 
systems could be improved with some of the convenient 
features (e.g., simple menu operation and heavy use of 
defaults for automatic scaling, labeling, etc.) found on in- 
expensive microcomputer plotting systems such as the 
Strobe Model 100 Computer Graphics Plotter. 



Getting Started 

The Strobe System consists of a drum plotter and soft- 
ware (graphing packages) for creating the graphs. 

The Strobe Plotter is a unit about half the size of an 
Apple II Plus (see photo 1). The 20 inches or so of ribbon 
cable connecting the plotter to the Apple interface card 
gives some options on where the machine can be set. (By 
the time you configure your system with any plotter, you 
probably will be forced to add table space to your work 
area.) The power switch is behind the right side of the 
machine, and you can easily reach it, but a front place- 
ment wouldn't hurt at all. 

The installation of the interface card in the Apple is 
relatively simple, provided you have the requisite empty 
slot. If you are like me, by the time you get around to the 
purchase of a plotter, empty slots are at as much of a 
premium as is table space. The choice of the slot is not as 
casual as might be expected. Most graphics software re- 
quires the plotter interface to be in a particular slot loca- 
tion; some programs are very particular. Check the soft- 
ware you plan to use to drive the plotter, and you may 
find that you have to put the Strobe interface in a slot 
that is dedicated to other uses most of the time. (For ex- 
ample, PFSrGraph, from Software Publishing Company, 
expects to see the plotter in slot 2 and will brook no 
substitutions.) With my system a bit of card swapping 
was necessary, and some users may find that the interface 
card will have to be shuffled around every time a graph- 
making session is scheduled. Besides considering swap- 
ping an annoyance, I have concern for the life of an in- 
terface card pulled and inserted frequently. 

The Strobe software enabled me to put the interface 
card in any slot, provided I ran the Configure program to 
set up the proper slot. When I ran the first program in the 
set of software, the Configure program ran fine. When I 
ran the second program in the set, I was puzzled to find 



248 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 




*V CYBERNETICS TWINS!! 



...KM iMKtH and <RT! 2 . The combination provides a uniquely powerful set of 
business software tools. 



i:.U (OKWI IS THE MOST WIDELY-USED 
MICROCOMPUTER COBOL. ..and for good 
reason. Highly compatible across the 
widest range of micro/mini/mainframe 
computers, it is the language of choice for 
serious business applications. With the 
release of (Al CMII. for the IBM main- 
frame machines (370, 30xx, 43xx), it is now 
possible to have compatibility over a truly 
huge range of computing power. ..from 
micros to mainframes. 

<RT! from Cybernetics (COBOL 
Reprogramming Tool!) is a source pro- 
gram generator for KM lOIEOI that can 
automatically produce a wide range of 
file maintenance, report printing, and 
other types of IM\ COKOI. source pro- 
grams. Programs produced by <RT! pro- 
vide a flexible alternative to many 
"database" software packages, since 
generated source programs may be 
modified for special requirements if 
desired. All source programs produced by 
<RT!are, of course, the property of the user 
Of <RT! 



In addition to the Cybernetics twins, 
It.U COKOI. and<RT!, we offer source pro- 
gram licenses for the most comprehensive 
microcomputer business applica- 
tions... the MBSI Realworld 3 software writ- 
ten in CM lOltOI. Starting life as the 
minicomputer-based MCBA' business 
applications, this software brings a new. 
degree of professionalism to microcom- 
puter applications. 

Our software is available and supported 
for a wide range of microcomputer 
operating systems including CP/M, 4 
CP/M-86 4 , MP/M 4 , MP/M-86 4 , PCDOS, 
MSDOS 5 , OASIS 6 , TRSDOS 7 , UNIX 8 , and 
RM/COS 1 . Contact us for details. 

CALL NOW. 
(714) 848-1922 



Trade mark i of 

1 • Ryan-McFarland Corp 

2 - Cybernetics, mc. 

3 - Micro Business Software, I 
A - Digital Research Inc. 

5 ■ Microsoft. Inc 



• Phase One Systems, Inc 

- Tandy Corp 

- Bell Telephone Laboratories 

• Mini Computer Business Applications, Inc 



available for: 



IBM TEXAS INSTRUMENTS NEC 

TELEVIDEO HEWLETT-PACKARD DELTA 
DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION TOSHIBA 

EPSON HEATH ONYX NORTHSTAH IMS 

XEROX RADIO SHACK COMMODORE SPFRRY UNIVAC 

SHARP SANYO OLIVETTI APPLE COflvUS 

ONTEL CALIFORNIA COMPUTER SYSTEMS COMPHO COMPAC 




8041 Newman Avenue 
Suite 208 
Huntington Beach, CA 92647 
(714) 848-1922 



© Copyright 1983 by Cybernetics, Inc. all rights reserved. 



Photo 1: Strobe Model 100 Computer Graphics Plotter. 



that the system hung up when I started to plot the graph. 
After some thought, I realized that each program must be 
configured separately; no interprogram learning here. 

The Basics 

Paper loading involves sliding a sheet of paper under a 
bar, rotating the drum, and sliding the free end of the 
paper under the other side of the same bar. While the first 
few tries were a bit awkward, with practice I fitted the 
paper smoothly around the drum in a few seconds. The 
hardest part is remembering to turn the motor release 
switch. (The Release switch is labeled ON — surely a 
less confusing labeling is possible. How about LOAD in 
place of ON and RUN in place of OFF, and leave the 
technically correct and practically confusing labeling to 
the engineers in the crowd.) 

The more I used the Strobe, the less satisfied I was with 
the procedure for securing the paper. Several graphs were 
spoiled when the action of the pen gradually worked the 
paper free from its restraints. This caused unwanted lines 
when the pen failed to clear the loose paper as it moved 
across the drum to plot a desired line. At other times, the 
loose paper was too unstable to make the lower part of 
the graph, and title or x-axis labels became unreadable. If 
I could redesign the Strobe, I would experiment to see if a 
small static charge could be drawn on the drum to help 
hold the paper in place. Or I would find some adhesive 
compound to put on the drum to overcome this problem. 

The Strobe uses either Pilot Razor Point or Berol Spree 



pens. The former is a felt tip, the latter is a roller ball pen. 
These specific pens work because their soft plastic shanks 
are the right size to be force-threaded into the pen holder. 
Inserting a pen is no more complicated than screwing it 
into the threaded bushing on the front of the plotter. I 
feared that I might break something, so I didn't thread the 
pen in far enough on my first try. Result: a mostly clean 
sheet of paper. Screwing up my courage and screwing the 
pen in tightly (3 3 A turns by my count) produced a decent- 
quality line; judge the figures that accompany this article 
for your assessment. 

Multicolor graphs are possible only if the software you 
use can stop and allow time for a pen change. You could 
get around this limitation by producing several different 
graphs, each with only one color, and overprinting each, 
but I wouldn't want to try! 

The Strobe instructions specify that the pen be 
mounted before the graph is formed. After trying that, I 
adopted a different procedure. I'd recommend not 
mounting the pen until the graph is to be printed. The pen 
point dries out during the construction of the graph, and 
a poor-quality line is produced for the first few inches of 
tracing. 

A simple fact should be obvious but must be empha- 
sized: the plotter creates no graphs on its own. Under- 
standing this is essential to the whole process. The plotter 
takes the software commands and develops the graph 
from these commands. Therefore, the graph produced is 
no better than the software that is used to drive the 



250 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



.® 



Powerful CB^M Software. 

For Apple, Osborne, Xerox, Kaypro, North Star, SuperBrain, Heath/Zenith, and others. 

Now only *Z9h95 each! 



NEVADA 

COBOL 

was $199.95 now only $29.95. 

When we introduced Nevada COBOL in 1979, it was loaded with 
innovations. Today's Edition 2 is even better! 

□ Extremely Compact. You can compile and execute up to 2500 
statements in 32K RAM, 4000 statements in 48K, etc. 

( J It's based upon the ANSI-74 standards with level 2 features such 

as compound conditionals and full CALL CANCEL. 

D You can distribute your object programs royalty FREE! 

□ You get a diskette, 153-page manual with lots of examples and 16 
complete COBOL source code programs. 

Also available: COBOL Application Packages, Book 1 $9.95 



NEVADA 

PILOT 

was $149.95 now only $29.95. 

□ Perfect for industrial training, office training, drill and testing, 
virtually all programmed instruction, word puzzle games, and data 
entry facilitated by prompts. 

□ John Starkweather, Ph.D., the inventor of the PILOT language, 
has added many new features to Nevada PILOT. There are com- 
mands to drive optional equipment such as Video Tape Recorders. 
There's a built-in full-screen text editor, and much more. 

□ Meets all PILOT-73 standards for full compatibility with older 
versions. 

n You get a diskette, 114-page manual and ten useful sample 
programs. 

□ See Review in Microcomputing, January 1983, page 158. 



NtVADA 

FORTRAN 

was $199.95 now only $29.95. 

□ Based on ANSI-66 standards with some 1977 level features. 
I : IF . . THEN . . ELSE constructs. 

I i A very nice TRACE style debugging. 

□ 150 English language error messages. 

□ You get a diskette, 174 pages of Documentation and five sample 
programs. Requires 48K RAM. 



NEVADA 

EDIT 



was $119.95 now only $29.95. 

□ High quality text editing for micros! 

□ A character-oriented full-screen video display text editor designed 
specifically to create COBOL, BASIC and FORTRAN programs. 

□ Completely customizable tab stops, default file type, keyboard 
control key layout and CRT by menu selection. 

□ The diskette comes with an easy to read manual. 



To make our software available to even more micro users, we've slashed our prices. 
What's more, we're offering a money back guarantee If for any reason you're not 
completely satisfied, just return the package — in good condition with the sealed 
diskette unopened — within 30 days and we'll refund your money completely. 

This is a limited time offer, so order yours today! 

Shipping/handling fees Add $4 00 for first package and $2 00 each additional 
package. OVERSEAS Add $15.00 for first package and $5,00 each additional pack- 
age. Checks must be in U.S. funds and drawn on a U.S. bank! 

Trademarks: CP/M, Digital Research; TRS-80, Tandy Corp.; TeleVideo. TeleVideo 
Systems. Inc ; Apple II, Apple Computer Inc.; Osborne 1, Osborne Computer Corp.; 
Xerox 820, Xerox Corp.; Kaypro, Non-Linear Sys.; Heath/Zenith, Heath Co.; IBM, 
International Business Machine, Corp. © 1983 Ellis Computing. 

MAIL TODAY! To: Ellis Computing 
3917 Noriega St. 
San Francisco, CA 94122 
(415) 753-0186 



o 



ELLIS COMPUTING 



The CP/M-80 Operating Systems and 32K RAM are required. 

Indicate diskette format: 

8" D SSSD (Standard IBM 3740 format) 



5V4 " D Apple CP/M 
n North Star DD 

□ TRS-80 Mod I (4200 hex) 

□ Heath, Hard Sector 

□ Micropolis Mod II 

G Xerox 820 (Kaypro) 



□ Osborne 

I J North Star SD 

□ TRS-80 Mod I/Mapper 
U Heath, Soft Sector 

□ Superbrain DD DOS 3.X 
(512 byte sectors) 

I ] TeleVideo 



Indicate software packages: □ COBOL I J PILOT 

□ FORTRAN □ EDIT 

Send my order for packages @ $29.95 each Total 

COBOL Applications Package @ $9.95 each Total 



Lj Check enclosed 



[ ; MasterCard □ VISA 



InCAadd sales tax 

Shipping/handling 

TOTAL 

Exp. Date 



Signature 
Ship to: 
Name 



Street 



City/St/Zip 
Country 



BYTE July 1983 251 



At a Glance 

Name 

Strobe Model 1 00 Computer Graphics Plotter 

Manufacturer 

Strobe Inc. 

Building 5A 

897 Independence Ave. 

Mountain View. CA 94043 

(415) 969-5130 

Type 

Drum-type plotter using 8V2- by 1 1 -inch (maximum) sheets of 
paper, transparency sheets, or foil. Plotting area is 8 by 10 inches 
(20.3 by 25.4 cm) 

Use 

To create hard-copy graphics from digital data 

Price 

S785 

Dimensions 

Height 3/2 inches (8.9 cm); width \6'A inches (41.3 cm); depth 
8'/2 inches (21.6 cm) 

Documentation 

1 6-page booklet 

Computer Interfaces 

TRS-80 Models I and III SI 10 

Apple II and III 85 

S-lOObus 145 

Commodore CBM/PET I 1 9 

RS-232C Serial 195 

Osborne 90 

Software 

StrobeplotandBusgraph SI 45 

Difplot 50 

Strobe view 75 

Screendump 75 

Plot Applications Software: Plot 1 .8; Plotsub; Draw8; Typer 70 

(not all software packages are available for every computer 
interface) 

Audience 

Personal or business computer users who need to create graphs 
and charts from digital data 



STROBE PLOTTING SYSTEM 




BUSINESS. 
GRAPHING 
BUSGRAF 



TEXT 

I COMPOSING 
STROBEVIEVl 



j!*VISICALC*l 

|| INTERFACE 

! DIFPLOT 
I 



•UTILITY* 

SCREEN 

DUMP" 



L 



•UTILITY* 
[•ROUTINES* 
j PL0TAPPL 



I APPLE 



I APPLE 8f APPLE W 



I APPLE j 



-f OSBORNE \( OSBORNE j 
[ CBM/PET J 

■f XEROX j 

Figure 1: Strobe Plotting System. The various graphics pack- 
ages available from Strobe for the plotter and the computer sys- 
tems on which the packages run are illustrated in this chart 
created by the author with the Strobeview program. 



Strobe plotter. If the software you choose produces a de- 
cent graph (you are the judge), then you can count on the 
Strobe to do its part, with some limitations. 

Strobe Software 

The Strobe Plotting System consists of five sets of soft- 
ware programs, separately priced, in addition to the plot- 
ter hardware (see figure 1). Not all of the software in the 
set is available for all microcomputers. The Strobe Sys- 
tem is keyed to the Apple II and can be run with the 
Osborne. Other systems may be added. 

Busgraf 

The Busgraf set of programs is the key to the Strobe 
software, providing pie charts, as well as bar graphics — 
but no line graphs, a serious limitation to me. Sometimes 
a bar graph tells the story well; sometimes a line graph 
would be better. I need graphing software that does both. 



Busgraf is composed of four programs: Bar Graph, Pie 
Chart, Bar Graph File Editor, and Pie Chart Editor. 

When I initially went through the Bar Graph instruc- 
tions, I followed a demonstration program to familiarize 
users with the operation of the software. The inclusion 
of such a program is a great help in understanding the in- 
tentions of the program authors and the instructions. 
However, small problems with the demonstration pro- 
gram, such as the disk catalog appearing one way in the 
text (two columns, side-by-side) and another way on the 
screen (one column), make this program unsatisfactory 
as a guide. In addition to inconsistencies, the screen 
"hangs up" at (or near) the end of the catalog. Have no 
fear, though. By pressing the return key, you can over- 
come the lack of care in the design and implementation of 
the software. 

A second program in the Busgraph package, the Bar 
Graph File Editor, enables you to edit the titles and labels 



252 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 




SEC 



APC 

Highly sophisticated 
graphics & color display 
NEC Hard disk, 10MBvte 
LOW PRICES SCALL 



FULL COLORE 1 QQQ 

graphics oi,yyy 

• ABC terminal with full vector & char, 
graphics IN 8 COLORS! 

• Morrow Micro-Decision processor, 
1 Floppy, CP/M 

• Nation-wide service 
Software package: PILOT CP/M Overlay 
for novice ease-of-use. WordStar, Loqi- 
Calc BASIC. GRAPHICS module ... add 
Second Floppy and Data Base program: add $399 
Double-sided Floppies add $699 s CAU 
Morrow Micro-Decision w/o color terminal •■ »"" 



IBM-PC 
Tkff/r tt Z-100 

NEW LOW PRICES! 





3M 
FLOPPY 

DISKETTES 

Best Prices 
in the World! 



COMPATIBLE COMPUTERS 

Banana 




Advanced color graphics 
16/8 bit, 128KRAM 
11 MByte Hard Disk 
List $5495 JCALL 



IBM-PC 64K 
two floppies 320K 
color board SCALL 



EAGLE-PC— Fully IBM-Com- 
patible. Detached keyboard 
105 keys. 24 user-defined 
EAGLE PC— 1 floppy - List 
$1995 SCALL 

EAGLE-I600-Uses 8086. 
faster than IBM-PC SCALL 




COLUMBIA 1600 accepts all 

IBM boards, reads HI IBM 
software. I28K. 8 expan- 
sion slots! NEW: S3.000 
FBEE SOFTWABE: JCALL 



BUY OF 

THE 
MONTH 




EAGLE II 64K RAM, superb 
display, dedicated Word- 
Processing keys, Spell- 
Binder, UltraCalc. CBASIC, 
CP/M, 1 Floppy 390KByte 

LIST $1595 SCALL 

EAGLE 10 MByte Hard Disk 
LIST $2495 S CALL for 
SPECIAL PACKAGE OEAL 
1 Full Year Warranty. 
Nationwide service (Bell & 
Howell) 



SEC 



P-8800 

SCALL 



SMITH-CORONA TP-1: 

AT OUB PRICE. NO COMPUTER 
SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE! 

Daisy-wheel, letter-quality, 

interlaces all computer. 18 

print-wheels 

List $849 ONLY SCALL 

SPECIAL. ONLY this month 

$50 Rebate from SCM! 
NEW: Tractor for TP-1. 
easy retro-fit $129 



•■ fj=!'lv, 



i ; 
, .j I 



GEMINI 10 

All the features of EPSON-FT. plus 
backspace, continuous underline 
ListS499 ONLYSCALLI! 

SPECIAL: New prices 

TOO LOW TO ADVERTISE! 

Gemini 1 5 similar but 15" carriage. 

Even better buy 

List $649 ONLYSCALLI! 



MANNESMANN-TALLYMT-160L 

No other printer can match all these features: serial AND parallel 
inputs standard. 160 cps standard, dot graphics standard, front- 
panel programming standard. TRACTOR INCLUDED plus 
LETTER-QUALITY printing at 50 cps 
Exceptional buy SCALL!!! 



PORTABLE COMPUTERS 
8/16 Bit— Wide Selection $ CALL 



BreAher 

Letter 

QuaMY 
Printer 






MONITORS 8 PLOTTERS: 

TAXAN COLOR MONITOR SCALL 

AMDEK 12" Amber $159 

AMDEK COLOR III RGB $382 

Zenith RGB hi-resolution RGB $524 

PGShi-res. 12" RGB $645 

NEC 12" RGB hires $CALL 

INTERFACES & MODEMS. ETC. 

Hayes Modems S CALL 

MlCROFAZER printer buffer S139 

ALL QUADRAM BOARDS JCALL 

TYMAC printer-adapter f /APPLE ... $89 
GRAPPLER S129 

DOT-MATRIX PRINTERS: 
Okidata 83A 132 col (s/P) $649 

Okidata 84-P 200 cps. & 50 cps .... $994 

Okidata 92, just released $ CALL 

NEW: Cut Sheet Feeder for 
Okidata 84 $CALL 

IDS Microprism: serial and parallel inputs, 
two printing speeds and printing 
qrades: Draft/ Correspondence ... $519 

Letter-Quality Printers: 

Fugitsu 80 CPS (!) $2289 

NEC 3510 33cps serial .... $1449 

DIABLO 620 25cps. ser $1094 

DaisyWriter.200, 48k buffer'.. $102? 
TRANSTAR. emulates Diablo. 

parallel $699 

TOSHIBA 1350. heavy-duty, ..$1649 
OUME NEW SPRINT II 40 cps 

LIST $1681 $CALL 

OLYMPIA ES100KR0 Electronic 

Typewriter/Printer 17 5 CPS, s/o SI 1 50 



Service from BHRT: FREE SOFTWARE CONSULTATION: Simply 
call (714| 783-3Z34. To place an order, call our toll-free line 
(800) 845-5555. If we don't have it. we'll tell you where to gel it! 

Either way, you win! 



IBM PC (MS-DOS) 


Your 


Word Processors: 

Wordstar (reg. CP/MO 495 


300 




List 


Price 


Spellstar 


295 


180 


ATI Power for PC DOS 75 


54 


Mailmerge 


295 


180 


ATI Power (WordStar) 75 


54 


Super Sort 


195 


180 




75 


54 


BONUS PACK 


990 


455 


MBASIC 


75 


54 


(Includes: Wordstar 






Multiplan 


75 


54 


& M/merge) 






Visicalc 


75 


54 


Word Handler 


199 


139 


dB Power 


75 


54 


CP/M (Most 


formats) 


EasyFiler 


75 


54 


CP* 


150 


109 


EasyWriter II 


75 


54 


Random House Thes 


150 


109 


Versa Form 


389 


288 


dPATCH 


195 


m 


BSTAM 


200 


144 


MicroLib File Lib. 


295 


195 


Target Fin. Model 


325 


253 


ATI-Pwr. for CP/M 


75 


54 


Condor 1 Database 


295 


212 


dB POWER 


75 


54 


Condor III Database 


650 


468 


Wordstar Power 


75 


54 


Home Account. Plus 


150 


104 


SuperCalc Power 


75 


54 


1st Class Mail 


124 


89 


MBASIC Power 


75 


54 


Property Management 495 


345 


MultiPlan Power 


75 


54 


Write on 


129 


89 


dBASE II 


700 


Call 


Real Estate Invest. 


129 


94 


Financial Planner 


700 


499 


Random House Thes 


150 


109 


Bottom LineStrat. 


400 


289 


Money Decisions 


199 


144 


BSTAM 


200 


144 


ZORK I. II. Ill 


39 


29 


Cardbox 


245 


174 


Deadline 


39 


29 


Roots/M 


195 


137 


Star Cross 


39 


29 


PlannerCalc 


99 


74 


PC Text 


100 


70 


Target Fin. Modeling 


325 


254 


Window 


150 


109 


Palantir Word Proc 


425 


309 


Wordtrix 


34 


25 


FMS-80 


995 


599 


Joysticks (Kraft Sys.) 69 


49 


Citation card file 


250 


169 


Spellbinder 


495 


274 


Supervyz 


150 


90 


Mince 


175 


160 


Micro B* f/BASIC 


260 


209 


Final Word 


300 


215 


Micro B+f/MBASIC/ 


260 


209 


Scribble 


175 


159 


COBOL 






Cross Talk 


195 


149 


Smart Key 


60 


46 


StatPack 


495 


359 


Smart Print 


35 


28 


The Word Plus 


150 


108 


OuickScreen f/BASIC 


149 


123 


The Personal Investor 145 


99 


MBASIC. dBASEII 






RM /COBOL 


950 


684 


FMS80 






RM/COBOL Runtime 


250 


179 


dGRAPH 


295 


217 


Job Cost System 


495 


359 


dUTIL 


99 


84 


File Manager Plus 


149 


109 


Ouickcode 


295 


214 


Advanced Visicalc 


400 


309 


Agri-bus Software 


3500 


1995 


VisiWord 


375 


293 


Prof. Time Acct 


595 


439 


VisiSpell 


225 


176 


SuperFile 


195 


117 


Visicalc 


250 


189 


ZORK 1,11, III 


49 


36 


Desktop Plan 


300 


229 


Deadline 


59 


42 


VisiDex 


250 


219 


Star Cross 


49 


36 


VisiTrend/Plot 


300 


229 


Mathemagic 


99 


74 


Bus Forecast. Models 100 


79 


Pascal Z 


450 


3/8 


Move-It 


150 


99 


Pascal BZ (bus. ver.) 


450 


378 


Multiplan 


275 


219 


Spellbinder 


495 


274 








Final Word 


300 


219 


CP/M 86 




Benchmark 


499 


359 


Random House Thes 


150 


109 


Benchmark mailist 


250 


179 


Spellbinder 


495 


269 


CIS Cobol 


850 


612 


SP/Law 


125 


90 


FORMS 2 


200 


144 


Benchmark 


499 


359 


FORTH 79 


139 


109 


BSTAM 86 


200 


149 


CROSSTALK 


195 


153 


Move-It 


150 


99 


ZIP (Cor M-BASIC) 


160 


104 


DBASE II 


700 


469 


ZIP for both C- and 


225 


142 


Level II COBOL 


1600 


1059 


M-BASIC 












StatPack 


495 


357 


APPLE 




The Word Plus 


150 


108 


Games 






Textwriter III 


125 


108 


Cannon Ball Blitz 


35 


25 


Datebook 


295 


229 


Eggs It 


30 


21 


Milestone 


295 


229 


Frogger 


35 


25 


Job Files (Proj Cost) 


500 


360 


Kamikaze 


35 


27 


Pearl 1 


49 


32 


Master Type 


40 


27 


Pearl 2 


295 


179 


Olympic Decathelon 


29 


23 


Pearl 3 


495 


297 


Robot Wars 


40 


24 


Personal Pearl 


295 


179 


Zork I, II & III 


40 


27 


The Quad 


495 


419 


Wizardry 


50 


35 


Quick N Easy Pro 


395 


284 


Serious Stuff: 






MailMan 


125 


94 


PFS: Pers File System 125 


60 


Quick N Easy Gen. 


295 


214 


PFS: Pers. Rep. Sys. 


95 


80 


CRT FORM 


400 


289 


Eduware (all) 




Call 


Encode/Decode 


100 


74 


Visicalc 3.3 


250 


169 


Diagnostic II 


125 


89 


Desktop Plan 3.3 


250 


169 


Term II 


200 


144 


Advanced Visicalc 


400 


315 


Disk Doctor 


100 


11 


(Apple III) 






Disk Edit 


100 


74 


Modifiable D/base 


80 


59 


Scratch Pad 


295 


209 


DB Master 


229 


160 


Move-It 


125 


94 



NEW: COD 15-Day Exchange Privilege (subject to terms below) 
Mo.-Fri. 9:00 AM-5:30 PM PST, Sat.12:00 Noon-5:00 PM PST 

1-(800) 845-5555 CA, AK. HI call (714) 832-3443 TELEX: 472-0127 ATTEN: EMD 
BANK REFERENCE: BARCLAYS BANK OF CALIFORNIA (213) 892-7244 

AMERICAN EXPRESS. VISA. MASTERCHARGE 
APO. FPO, INTERNATIONAL ORDERS ACCEPTED 



BHRT. 



inc P.O. Box 3791, Riverside, 




TERMS: Prices in this ad apply to prepaid orders only, reflect 5% cash discount off our regular sale prices. Per- 
sonal checks allow 2 weeks to ci^ar Fortune-1000 companies, Universities and Government only: 30-day net, based 
on our regular (non-cash) prices COD based on non-cash prices and requires payment in full by Cashier's Check or 
Certified Check upon delivery. California residents add 6% tax. This ad supersedes all prior offers. Prices subject to 
change and offers may be withdrawn without prior notice. All merchandise new in original factory cartons, carry full 
manufacturer's warranty, and are covered by full insurance during shipping. Absolutely no return on used or dam- 
aged items Software returnable ONLY in UNOPENED original wrapping. We now offer 15-DAY EXCHANGE 
PRIVILEGE, subject to 10% restocking charge on returned merchandise, and excluding special order items Add 3% 
for Handling, Shipping & Insurance {$3.95 minimum) 

APPLE is trademark ot Apple Computer Inc. IBM is trademark of International Business Machines, Inc. 



U.S. MONEY SUPPLY GROWTH CM2) 

XTY/LY £gj zTB/LM-fttttl KRTE 




JRN I MflR ! MAY I JUL I SEP I NOV I JfIN I MflR I MAY I JUL I SEP I NOV I 
FEB APR JUN AUG OCT DEC FEB RPR JUN AUG OCT DEC 
1981-82 

Figure 2: A side-by-side bar chart using the Busgraph set of 
programs. 

(Main, x, y, and Legend), change the shading and pens, 
and vary the data values. The number of bars and sub- 
bars and scaling factor for the y-axis, and x-axis label op- 
tion cannot be changed after the initial selection is made. 
Make a mistake in editing (like a repeating minus sign), 
and you may find yourself dumped out of the program 
into Applesoft. 



On the bright side, Busgraf provides an x-axis that can 
be labeled with weekdays (5, 10, 15, 20), dates (7, 14, 21), 
or months (3, 6, 12, 18, 24), as well as numbers. Very 
useful for business graphs, but years and quarters are 
needed to complete the set and the limits are pretty con- 
fining for the work that I do in economic planning. 

Note, no opportunity exists to preview a graph on the 
monitor before plotting begins, a real waste of time and 
paper. 

The graph I used to test the Busgraph package is de- 
signed as a line for the year-to-year percent changes and 
bar for the month-to-month precent changes at an annual 
rate. Busgraph couldn't duplicate this but instead im- 
plemented it as a side-by-side bar chart (see figure 2). 

The overall layout of the graph is excellent. Legends 
are clear and well placed. (Shadow overprinting of titles 
is possible.) The x-axis labels are a tad jumbled by my eye 
but better than those on 80 percent of the graphs I have 
seen produced on microcomputers. Overall, a decent 
graph is possible with the Busgraph package in spite of all 
the problems. 

The Strobe Plotter can be judged on the basis of the 
plot in figure 2. Close examination reveals that the y-axis 
doesn't quite line up with either the line or the x-axis 
reference line (at —5). Most of the bars do not start at 
but seem to start at about —0.1 or so. The bars overlap 
some, and the overlap increases toward the right side of 
the graph. The third striped bar from the left is mis- 



8087 SUPPORT FROM MICROWARE 



87FORTRAN/RTOS™ isafuiiANSi- 

77 subset with 8087 extensions It generates 
in line 8087 ccxle allowing use of all 8087 
data types, including 32, 64 and 80 bit reals 
and 64 bit integers. The complete subset I/O 
is supported including Internal and External 
Files and List Directed I/O. Exceptions allow 
the generation of recursive subroutines, 
interrupt handlers and can cause interrupts 
from FORTRAN. 87FORTRAN/RTOS uses 
the Intel large memory model, allowing data/ 
code structures which utilize the full mega- 
byte. The compiler provides direct access to 
8088 ports and supports logical operations 
on 8 and 1 6 bit operands normally treated in 
assembly language. 87FORTRAN/RTOS is 
ideal for applications which are number in- 
tensive or control hardware. 95% of all "main 
frame" size programs compile and run with- 
out extensive editing. The price includes 
support for one year and RTOS $1350 



87PASCAL/RTOS™ is the most 
powerful compiler available to PC users at 
this time. It is an ISO-Standard Pascal, with 
8087-8088 exceptions These make it possi- 
ble to use all the 8087 data types directly, 
while generating modules in one of the three 
Intel Memory Models Modules produced 
using different memory models can be inter- 
faced and linked. This gives the user com- 
plete control of the memory model/speed 
trade off characteristic of iAPX cpu'a All 
exceptions to the ISO definition are clearly 
marked with a grey background in a manual 
which is a standard of the industry, and more 
readable than many tutorials. The compiler 
makes it possible to cause or handle inter- 
rupts It also reads ports and performs all the 
tasks necessary to control iAPX-86 hardware. 
Use of 87PASCAL guarantees you upward 
compatibility with future Intel processors and 
languages. Includes RTOS $1 350 



RTOS" — Real Time Operating System 

RTOS is a MicroWare configured version of iRMX-86, Intel's legendary real time operating 
system. This DOS is entirely re-entrant and provides many features found only on mainframes. It 
includes the Intel Assembler, ASM-86, which supports the 8086, 8087, 8088 and 801 86. All 
modules produced by the compilers or ASM-86 are combined, loaded and managed with the 
Utilities LINK-86. LOC-86 and LIB-86. These products make it possible to load modules 
anywhere in RAM, and resolve external references between runtime modules. Overlays with a 
single root job are supported by the linker. Binding of modules is accomplished at link or load 
time. RTOS/ASM-86/LINK-86/LOC-86/LIB-86 $600 



Micro 
Ware 



PO Box 79 
Kingston, MA 

02364 

(617) 746-7341 



You Can 
TalkTbUs! 



MicroWare 8087 Products 

87 MACRO™ - the key to writing 8087 
assembly language routines using the IBM 
assembler. It contains a complete library of 
standard 8087 routines $1 50 

87BASIC - includes patches for 
BASCOM.COM, BASCOM.LIB and 
BASRUN.EXE and the MicroWare 8087 
runtime routines $1 50 

87 PASCAL787 FORTRAN™ - 

8087 libraries and IBM compiler patches 
either for $1 50 

BAS87+™ Or PAS+87™ - libraries 
of 8087 primitives which make it possible to 
write assembly-like routines in Basic or 
Pascal, either for $50 

87FASTPAK - includes your choice 
of one MicroWare runtime library, the 87/88 
Guide, an 8087, and installation instruc- 
tions $375 

8087 CHIP - plus chapter five of the 
GUIDE Call 

87/88GUIDE - an excellent tutorial on 
writing 87/88 code and interfacing it with 

compilers-full of code that runs! $30 

SuperSoft Fortran 340 

SuperSoft 87 drivers 50 

MATRIXPAK 1 00 

Microsoft Fortran 2.0 340 

Microsoft Pascal 2.0 340 

Microsoft Business Basic Compiler 495 

CI/C86 345 

64K Ram sets 64 

64K Quadramboard 299 

256K MWRamboard 275 



254 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 280 on inquiry card. 



BASF QUALIMETRIC™FLEXYDISKS S 

BUILT FOR ETERNITY-WARRANTED FOR A LIFETIME. 







BASF Qualimetric FlexyDisks® offer 
you more... an extraordinary new 
lifetime warranty* The BASF Quali- 
metric standard is a dramatic new 
international standard of quality in 
magnetic media. ..insurance that 
your most vital information will be 
secure for tomorrow when you enter 
it on BASF FlexyDisks today. 

We can offer this warranty with 
complete confidence because the 
Qualimetric standard reflects a con- 
tinuing BASF commitment to perfec- 
tion, a process which begins with 
materials selection and inspection, 
and continues through coating, pol- 
ishing, lubricating, testing, and 
100% error-free certification. Built 
into our FlexyDisk jacket is a unique 
two-piece liner. This BASF feature 
traps damaging debris away from 
the media surface, and creates extra 
space in the head access area, insur- 
ing optimum media-to-head align- 
ment. The result is a lifetime of 
outstanding performance. 

When your information must 
be secure for the future, look for 
the distinctive BASF package with 
the Qualimetric seal. Call 800-343- 
4600 for the name of your nearest 
supplier. 

Circle 44 on inquiry card. 



■:■..:.'. 




m.!Mi 



Enter tomorrow on basf today 



BASF 



•Contact BASF for warranty details © 198.?. BASF System;. Corpo 



1984 PROPOSED U.S. BUDGET (RERGRN RDMIN. ) 



MILITARY 



COMMERCE 



HEALTH 




SOC SECURITY 



-- INTEREST 

GOVERNMENT 
INC. SECURITY 



Figure 3: Pie chart produced with the Pie Chart program of the 
Busgraph software, which gives you the option of breaking out 
any section of the pie for emphasis. 



- 1 r 
1 / 


hs f 
\ ■ * 
i v f 


S / \ ; V t / 

';/ * ^ 

i i i 



1381-82 
U.S. MONEY SUPPLY GROWTH ( M2 ) 

Figure 4: Line graph drawn using the Strobeplot programs. 



aligned at the top. In short, the plotter produces a graph 
that is merely adequate. 

The problems I had with the bar graphs should have 
warned me about the pie charts. As I created the chart 
under the Auto option, all went reasonably well until I 
entered the main title. At that point, the program in- 
dicated that the data was filed and dumped me out in the 
cold. The disk catalog revealed the filename (without an 
.xxx filename suffix), so I started the program again and 
directed the program to the existing file. The program 
reported the file couldn't be found, and — to maintain a 
weird sense of consistency — erased the file! My frustra- 
tion mounted as I went through this process three times 
before I gave up and tried the Manual option; it 
worked — sort of. The data entry of my first graph was 
complete (again no preview on the monitor) up to the 
point of running it on the Strobe. On my first attempt, all 
the parts of the pie were made, the first title completed, 
the second title started, and then the program aborted. I 
finally succeeded in combining several segments to pro- 



duce an excellent chart, with the option of varying colors 
and shading (see figure 3). The capability to break out 
any or all segments and specify how much separation for 
each is a very good feature and seldom seen even on large 
systems. 

[Editor's note: The Strobe software has recently been 
upgraded from the version reviewed here. One of the 
changes enables the various programs to interchange data 
so that the user can create different types of graphs using 
the same data. . . . S. J. W.] 

The Strobe Plotter's performance generally was ex- 
cellent. The registration (ability of the machine to keep 
within the lines) was somewhat uneven but not signifi- 
cantly. Several letters were "nervous" — not smoothly 
executed (e.g., in figure 3, S, C, U). My opinion is that 
Busgraf is better than a dot-matrix screen dump but not 
suited for high-quality graphs. 

Strobeplot 

To produce line charts, the Strobe System provides a 
second set of software, Strobeplot. The data goes in one 
file. The commands to turn the data into a graph go into 
a second (option) file. The chance to add grid lines with 
the option file caught my attention, but the program 
editor always skipped over that choice. The rest of the 
option file structure worked as advertised. On execution, 
the program asked me to put the data and option files in 
Dl (drive 1). After a few abortive attempts, I realized 
that Dl to this program meant the current drive (which 
was D2 the way my disk drive was set up, as the fates 
would have it). 

The plotting, even without the ability to preview the 
results of my commands on the screen of the monitor, 
worked without incident. The pen stayed down at the 
end of the axis-drawing portion of the process, causing 
some small additional lines when the pen was switched to 
change colors. To overcome the problems of loose paper, 
I smoothed the graph down to provide a better-quality 
product (see figure 4). The Busgraf programs (and most 
other plotting programs I have seen) put the title at the 
top of the graph; Strobeplot doesn't. The quality of the 
plot was fine, but after three attempts, I stopped trying to 
get the data squared away as the negative number I was 
trying to plot was dropped, without even a warning. 

Screendump 

This is a hardworking program with no frills (such as 
the capability of scaling or rotating the image). The 
screen image is transferred to the paper one dot at a time. 
All the movement of the pen on the paper loosened the 
paper and produced, in spite of my attempts to hold the 
paper down, a less than satisfactory graph. With the wide 
spacing between the dots, I couldn't conceive of using the 
resulting graph at full size. In fact, I can't think of any 
way this process is preferable to a screen dump to my Ep- 
son. The plotting process with the Strobe software takes 
approximately half an hour (compared to a minute for 
my Epson), and the graph would need to be reduced to 
bring the points together before I would use the product. 



256 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 




With Chart-Master™ 

creating quality graphics is 

as easy as apple pie. 




No matter how you 
slice them, pie 
charts, bar charts and 
scatter diagrams are a lot 
easier to read and understand 
than rows and columns of numbers. 
Now you can create colorful business graphics any- 
time you need them, with an easy-to-use Chart- 
Master graphics software program. A program that 
works with Hewlett-Packard, Panasonic and other 
plotters and your IBM® personal computer. 



»..thtr ilatth for A 





Values printed at data points; both left and right Y-axis scales; floating 
legends & bars; both horizontal & vertical formats; exploded pie sections. 

Just enter your data, choose a chart format, 
preview the chart on your screen, and Chart-Master 
will automatically create a beautiful, presentation- 
quality chart. In seconds. 

There's more to Chart-Master than simplicity. 
Incredible power and sophistication. You can enter 



data manually or auto- 
matically from Visicalc® 
and other programs. Print 
on either paper or acetate 
transparencies. Make your 
charts any size, anywhere on the page. 
Have your text appear in attractive print-quality 
type. Choose from sophisticated formats that in- 
clude percentage bars, stock price (High/Low/ 
Close) and area charts. 

Power and ease-of-use. That's why Chart- 
Master is in daily use at major corporations like GE, 
Eastman Kodak, Exxon, Union Carbide, GM, AT&T, 
DuPont, 3M, Citibank, Motorola, Proctor & Gamble 
and GTE. 

The retail price of Chart-Master is $375. For a 
complete information kit and name of your nearest 
dealer, contact Decision Resources, Inc., 21 Bridge 
Square, Westport, CT 06880. (203) 222-1974. 

DecisionResources 

Software Designed for Decision Makers 

Visicalc is a trademark of Visicorp. 

IBM is a trademark of International Business Machines Corporation. 



Circle 134 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 252 on inquiry card. 

THIS IS THE YEAR OF THE HARD DISK. TRADE-IN YOUR 
EXISTING 5% " DOUBLE SIDED, DOUBLE DENSITY DISK 
DRIVE ON A NEW 5 l A" WINCHESTER SUBSYSTEM. 
McNEILL WILL GIVE YOU $200, FOR YOUR OLD DRIVE, 
TOWARD THE PURCHASE OF ANY ONE OF THE FOL- 
LOWING HARD DISK SUBSYSTEMS. 

10 MB IMI formatted subsystem 
(2 yr. LTD. warranty) $ 1995. 

22 MB AMPEX formatted subsystem 

(1 yr. LTD. warranty) $2695. 

44 MB AMPEX formatted subsystem 

(1 yr. LTD. warranty) $3595. 

Hard disk subsystems include Z80 interface card, controller 
cabinet, power supply, cables, and hard disk. Compatible 
with: IBM-PC, Osborne, North Star, TRS-80 Model II, 
Televideo 802, Apple with CP/M, Heath/Zenith, any Z80 
S-100 System. 

We carry most major brands of memory boards for your 
IBM-PC AST Research, Persyst, Seattle, Quadram, STB, 
MBI. (Check our low price on Quadlink). 

We carry most major brands of printers. Here are a few 
examples of our prices: 

Epson FX80 $549. 

Prowriter 8510A $379. 

C. Itoh F-10 $1199. 

Special Department for Universities. We accept purchase 
orders. All prices are F.O.B. El Toro, CA. All prices are 
subject to change. 

714-768-8114 McNeill 714-768-8114 

Suite 186 • 25422 Trabuco Rd. # 105, El Toro, CA 92630 

In Europe: McNeill, 138 University St., Belfast, Northern Ireland 

BT7IJH TELEX 74351 






PROGRAMMERS FLIGHT SIMULATOR 
Apple 11 Plus DOS 3.3 48K 





P»*«*2lJ 



This total IFR System disk features gobs of menu 
selectable flight programs each with breath 
taking realistic picture graphics, moving scenery, 
airport approaches, holding patterns and much 
much more. 

$50.00 At your Computer Store or direct from 

Visa Mastercard 

Programmers Software 

2110 N. 2nd Street 

Cabot, Arkansas 72023 

(501) 843-2988 



BOLD CENTERED 

REGULRR CENTERED 
OFFSET CENTERED 

BOLD ON MARGIN 
REGULRR ON MARGIN 
OFFSET ON MARGIN 



BOLD INDENTED 

REGULRR INDENTED 
OFFSET INDENTED 



Figure 5: Examples of different type styles and sizes available 
with the Strobeview program. 



Strobeview 

With this program, you can make large slides for over- 
head transparency projectors. You can also use it to type 
large-size words in either regular, bold, or offset fonts 
(see figure 5). Strobeview permits a large variety of type 
sizes. Setting type at either margin and centering are 
possible. 

You can create simple organizational charts with this 
powerful utility. I used it in setting the structure of the 
Strobe Plotting System illustrated in figure 1. Charts are 
restricted to the width shown in this example and can be 
longer by one additional level (e.g., an additional com- 
puter system). The procedure for making the chart is a lit- 
tle confusing at first, but I was able to master the process 
within a half hour. In keeping with the rest of the Strobe 
package, the instructions leave a great deal to be desired. 

Of the software parts of the Strobe system, Strobeview 
comes closest to fulfilling the hopes I had when I opened 
the packages. The package would be more useful if it had 
the capability to autoscale each line (allowing manual 
overrides of course) and preview graphs on the screen. 
Because automatic scaling is not available, plotting off 
the edge of the page is very easy, resulting in a damaged 
pen point and shredded paper. The start position for 
printing is controlled by the cursor control keys, labeled 
as arrows, on the top right side of the machine. As it 
exists now, Strobeview is adequate as a simple first-gen- 
eration text-plotting package. 

Another program available from Strobe but not 
evaluated here is Difplot, which plots Visicalc (or 
presumably other) data saved in the DIF format. 

Plot Applications Software Package 

For those whose needs aren't supplied by the software 
reviewed so far, the Strobe folks have a Plot Applications 
Software Package that gives you greater control over the 
functions of the plotter. The package includes: 



258 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 332 on Inquiry card. 



SANYO PLUS 




P"« ro„ 9e ofrh f 5 '°Pco mpu , et wirhin ,rj 



$1995 



J"b««ld. t ,/ M ,.. 

@ SANYO PLUS i 

A full feature, fast, Z-80. 64K computer with over $2000 of software for $1995. 
The Sanyo Plus hardware includes a Sanyo MBC-1000 computer with a built-in 12" 
high-res., green phospher 25x60 display, o serial communications port and a parallel 
printer port. The detached keyboard is sculpt and tieted and includes o seporare 
10-key pod. 

The Sanyo Plus has dual 5V4" double densiry drives and features a total formatted disk 
capacity of 624K. 

The Sanyo Plus softwate includes CP/M®, Basic and the unabashed, top-dog Mictopro 
applicarion programs; Wordstar with training guide. Mailmerge, Spellsror. Calcstar, and 
rhe new Infostat package including Dotostat and Reporrstar. 

Plus we odd a 000 baud direct connect modem with cable, modem software, and a 
games disk. Plus we integrate and test your system ond include work copies generated 
on your system. 

For more informorion call us ar Scortsdale Systems. (No Dealers Please) 

One year warranty $99. Five module business software pack $99. One drive sysrem 
$1649. Hard disks: 10Mb-$1995/16Mb.$2395. 



TELEVIDEO 



Coming Soon: Sanyo Plus with gtaphics. 



ALTOS 




Buy o Televideo multi-user sysfem from 
us at discounr ond well arrange on-site 
installation in any of 55 U.S. cities via 
TRW (oddirionol charge). You can start 
with the single-user 603 ond expand to 
a 1 6 user multi-tasking, multi-user network. 

aoo coil 

1603 Coll ■ 

602H $4529 

806/20 Mb $5111 

816/40 Mb $9210 

TERMINALS 



Our tech's favorite systems. From the 
lowest priced 3-user systems with either 
2 or 6 MG. storage, to 40MG. 8-user 1 6 
bit systems. 

Add terminals, printers, and software 
and we can fully test and configure your 
system ot low prices. Dock nationwide 
by Moore Systems Service. 

5-1 5D $2175 

5-80-10 $4695 

8000-10 $5444 

16 Bir Systems Coll 

Series 5, 8000. systems include MP/M 




ZENITH 



NORTHSTAR 




*ElV £ 



New low prices on the systems that ore 
S-100. 16 blt/fl bit. MS DOS ond CP/M 
compatible. Plus they're backed by 
Zenith service virtually everywhere. The 
Z-100's feature two built-in 5V*" drives. 
1 28k RAM. ond 225x640 graphics. Add 
o 10" RGB ZVM-134 monitor to your 
1 10 for superior color display. 

ZM 10-22 $2699 

110 w/green 

monitor $2799 

ZF-120-22 $2799 

ZVM-1 34 (color) $555 

Software Special 

(100-7) Coll 




Quadram: 64K 



S269 256K 



Prices now include free burn and resr. 
We worronry each unit for 90 doys from 
rhe day you receive it ( nor 90 days from 
me doy we receive ir). Coll for prices on 
comporible software ond hardware. 

Advantage 64K $2295 
Advantage 5Mb Call 

Advantage 1 5Mb $4495 
Horizons Coll 



PRINTERS 




\ 



WyselOO 

toting : 

keyboard "with 105 keys: Vertical/hori- 
zontal split screen: high reliability; 
optional Wordstar prom. $699 

Adds3A+ Emulates the ADM-3A. 

detached keyboard, keypad, 1 2" green 

display, nationwide Adds service. 

S469. 

Televideo 910 $579 

Televideo 925 $735 

Televideo 950 $927 

Televideo 970 $1044 

Zenith Z-29 $659 

Zenith ZT-1 $459 

Hozeltine Espirirs call 

Qume102 $544 

Houston Instruments 

plotters, digitizers Call 



/ V 

jScottsdale Systems^ 

61 7 N. Scottsdale Rood, Suite D, Scoftsdole, Arizona 85257 

3E (602) 941-5856 — 

■» Coll 8-5 Mon.-Fri. 

■ fWL We participate in arbittation for business and customers through the Better 

Dusiness Dureou of Maricopa County. 




SERVICE/ORDERING 

I NTEGRATI ON: Prices lisred ore for new equipment in factory sealed boxes with manufacturer's 
warranty. We will prefesr your equipment, Integrore your sysrem, configure your software, provide 
special cobles, etc.. for on additional charge. Coll for prices. 

ORDERING: MAIL ORDER ONLY. Prices listed are for cash. No CO D s We sell on o net 20 
basis to Fortune 500 companies ond Universities Charge cords add 2%. Prices subject to change, 
product subject ro availability. A2. residents add 5%, Personal checks take 3 weeks ro clear. 0-20% 
resrocklng fee for returned merchandise. Shipping exrro - products ore F.O.B. point of shipment. CP/M 
and MP/M are registered trademarks of Digirol Research. 

SOFTWARE: We sell oil popular CP/M® programs at discount. Software sold only with sysrems not 
worronrled for suitability. 



Gemini 10 $298 

Gemini 15 $454 

NEC8023A $409 

Tally 160L $584 

TI850 

w/Ttoctors $539 

IDS Mictoptism $509 

HIGH SPEED 

Anadex9620A $1399 

Qantex7030 $1562 

TI-810 Basic $1285 

LETTER QUALITY 

Sanyo PR5500 
our lowest priced 

LC printet coll 

Silver-Reed 550 $654 

Diablo 620 coll 

NEC 3510 $1411 

NEC 7710 $2099 



QKIDATA 



DTC-380Z 



\ The new Microllne 92s and 90s feature 160 C.PJ. 

\ droff mode. 40 C.P.S. correspondence mode. 
Standard parallel, serial card add S91 . 

Microline92 $489 

Mlcroline 82 $389 

Microllne 93 $835 

Microline 84 $969 



Uses rhe same printwheel, ribbons, tractor 
as rhe Daisywrlrer 2000. Will run serial, 
parallel or IEEE 4fl8 48K buffer standard, 
thru-pur ro 32 C.P.S. Uses Dioblo codes. 
Compare price, compare reliability. 



$1044 




\bu'll never have a better reason 
to begin shopping by mail: 

IBM RAM 
BOARDS 

256K 

WITH AN RS-232C INTERFACE 

$349 

$507 WITH SUPERCALC 2 

512K 

WITH AN RS-232C INTERFACE 

$579 

$727 WITH SUPERCALC 2 



Our fully-populated memory 
boards include parity checking 
and a standard RS-232C interface. 
They are compatible with all IBM 
software. 

This is a rare opportunity to 
save a great deal of money 
without sacrificing quality. These 
boards meet the highest standards 
of design, materials and manufac- 
turing available — at any price. 
They are completely guaranteed 
for two years. 

Alpha Byte also carries the finest 
in IBM software, such as: 

Lotus 1,2,3 

D BASE II 
Multiplan 
Please call for our low prices. 




IPUTER 
PRODUCTS 

31245 LA BAYA DRIVE 
WESTLAKE VILLAGE. CA 91362 



To older or for 
information call 

In Chicago: 
(312)454-1236 
InNewMxk: 
(212)509-1923 

In Los Angeles: 
(213)706-0333 
In Dallas: 
(214)744-4251 
By Modem: 
(213)9911160^ 

'"call our modem line . 

I FOR WEEKLY SPECIALS' 

I ' 

* For all your computer product 
needs, come visit us at our 
new California store. 



We accept VISA. MasterCard or C OD (adrj $3 tor COO.) Ado a $3 shipping charge to prepaid orders; 
actual shipping charges will be added to non-prepaids California residents add appropriate sales tax 



•Plotl.8: a machine-language driver to allow your soft- 
ware to control the drum and the pen to make a written 
copy of your plot. Variable names and hexadecimal /deci- 
mal addresses are provided in the instruction manual for 
plotting a vector, drawing an alphanumeric character, 
controlling pen motion with switches, and initializing 
variables and the input/output port. 
•Plotsub: this subroutine provides entry points for the 
vector (x and y coordinates), a switch for the position of 
the pen, and input for the string of alphanumeric char- 
acters to be plotted (including their position on the paper 
and whether to go up or down, or left or right). 
•Draw8: this subroutine plots a series of curves in a com- 
mon format. Again, no previewing is included in the rou- 
tine. Care must be taken to prevent parts of the graph 
from printing on top of other parts. The first time 
through the program, you need to use a instruction card 
(or "cheat sheet") so that you have the proper responses 
ready in the right order. If the title is too long to fit on the 
page, the plotting continues on the drum of the plotter off 
the edge of the paper. Without the ability to pause for 
change of pens, single-color graphs are the only choice. 
The title is set up at the bottom of the page as in Strobe- 
plot, discussed previously. Data points are not saved by 
the routine, and legends are not available to identify the 
lines of the graph. Nothing to write home about here, but 
possibly something to build on. 

•Typer: this utility plots strings of characters entered 
from the keyboard. The strings will be plotted either 
horizontally or vertically and may go off the page de- 
pending on the size of the type that is specified. I think 
less than 10 lines of code could be added to cause a warn- 
ing to be printed, suggest alternative type size, and give 
you the opportunity to put fewer words on the line. Sure- 
ly, this kind of change will be available before long. 

Conclusion 

My evaluation of the Strobe System is based on a com- 
parison with the Tektronics system I have used for five 
years and several Hewlett-Packard plotters, all of which 
cost more (the Tektronics a great deal more) but produce 
better-quality graphs than Strobe Plotter. Without a 
doubt, at $785 the Strobe is an adequate plotter for the 
money, but it falls short of my expectations. 

The Strobe software is an embarrassment and should 
be thrown out or redone. The basis for a decent plotting 
package could be built on the frame of the incomplete, 
poorly documented, and disjointed packages that are 
provided, but I wouldn't try. 

I used other software packages (Apple Business Graph- 
ics and Graftalk) to drive the Strobe plotter to provide a 
fair test of the machine. Using another company's soft- 
ware proved to be a substantial advantage (see figures 
6 and 7). I judged the quality of these graphs to be more 
than satisfactory. The registration is fine. The letters are 
sharp, lines clear, and a very good plot is developed. The 
plots made with non-Strobe software and with the Strobe 
plotter are better than those I am used to from an Epson. 

< Circle 18 on inquiry card. 



The IBM Personal Computer W>rk Station. 
It's optional. (But essential.) 




Now, we could hard-sell you on its features. Or 
we could soft-sell you on its virtues. Instead, 
we're going to level with you. 

You don't have to buy it. 

But we have a hunch that the more you know 
about the IBM Synergetix® PC 
Work Station the more you'll 
wonder how your business ever 
managed without it. 

Necessity was 
surelv the 
mother of 
this inven- 
tion. 

For as 
more and more% 

businesses come to rely on the personal com- 
puter, new and extraordinary demands are being 
placed on the work environment itself. 

The IBM PC Work Station was specifically 
developed to meet the challenges of today's tech- 
nology. And scientifically designed to satisfy the 
various needs of the people who use it. 

It's not just another pretty desk. 

First and foremost, the IBM PC Work Station 
provides a convenient and compact work space 
that instantly opens up to expand your work 
area. 

In addition, the IBM PC Work Station offers 
added mobility for your personal computer. So 
you get more mileage out of your invest- 
ment as it moves from office 
office, person to person, solv 
ing problem after problem. 

And since your personal 
computers are as vulner- 
able as they are valuable, 
the IBM PC Work Sta- 




tion also functions as a 
security device. 

It deters pilferage by 
providing a self-con- 
tained lockable storage 
compartment for your 
CPU, software, key- 
board, printer, pro- 
gram books and diskettes. 

It also protects valuable information, prohibit- 
ing unauthorized access to confidential computer 
data by keeping it all secure under lock and key. 
Circle 194 on inquiry card. 



Last but not least, the IBM 
PC Work Station is 
human-factor engi- 
neered to meet IBM's 
strict ergonomic 
standards for 




operator 
comfort. 
For as you 
know, the 
more com- 
fortable 
people are, the more productive they can be. 

There's one more important feature to our PC 
Work Station. It comes equipped with the added 
assurance of IBM quality. But then, that comes 
standard on all IBM products. 

If all this hasn't convinced you that our PC 

Work Station is as 
essential as it is excep- 
tional, we're sure the 
w ,i, -jS a '*2k price tag will. And 
IBM's quantity dis- 
counts make it abso- 
lutely irresistible. 
To find out just how 
irresistible (or for additional information) call 
IBM Direct toll free at 1 800 631-5582* ext. 40 or 
visit one of our IBM Product 
Centers. Or send in the coupon 
below. WimtiMiMiMinl 

The IBM Personal Com- 
puter Work Station — busi- 
ness people are finding it's 
one of those luxuries they 
just can't live without. 




1 l CUI1VUI 





PATENT PENDING 



IBM PERSONAL COMPUTER WORK STATION 

Mail to: IBM Corporation, Attn: IBM Direct. 

One Culver Road, Dayton, New Jersey 08810 



NAME- 



_TITLE_ 



COMPANY. 
ADDRESS- 
CITY 



.TELEPHONE. 



.STATE. 



.ZIP 



*In Alaska and Hawaii call 1 800 526-2484 ext. 40. 



BYTE July 1983 261 



HERE S A ONE-TWO PUNCH 




EXP 550 



WITH KNOCKOUT PRICES. 



1. 



> EXP 550 fully electronic daisy wheel printer. Precision 
engineering is the key ingredient in Silver-Reed's rapid rise to promi- 
nence in the electronic office equipment field. 

The EXP 550 is a good example. With features such as 17 cps 
(Shannon text-12 pitch); bi-directional letter-quality printing; subscript; 
superscript and bold typing; carrier feed in units of 1/120 inch and 
forward/reverse paper feed in unit of 1/48 inch. This computer 
compatible printer has a price tag that won't leave tQQF 

you hanging on the ropes. Only CrZ7<9» 



£•• EXP 500 — Coming your way soon — many of the same 
features as the EXP 550 in a smaller package. The EXP 500 is a fully 
electronic bi-directional daisy wheel printer. 14 cps (Shannon text- 
12 pitch); 10, 12, & 15 pitch; parallel and serial interface options; 
and lots more. And at a price that really packs $tf~.t%TT- 

a whollop. Only %K7<3» 

You'll find the Silver-Reed distributor nearest you listed below. 
Contact him today and get all the facts. Or, call (800) 421-41 91 outside 
CA, or (800) 252-7760 within CA. Ask for the printer sales department. 



Midwest Region 

Bohlig & Associates la/Mn/ 

3440 Beitline Boulevard ND/SD 

Minneapolis, Minnesota 55416 W.Wi 
(612)922-7011 

Comput Distributors NE.II/ln 

500 Oliver Mi/Oh 

Troy, Michigan 48084 WPa/E.Wi 
(313)362 2740 



Hollander & Company. Inc. 


Ar/SW.II 


600 James McDonnell 


W.Ky/La 


Hazelwood, Missouri 63042 


E.Mo/Ms 


(314)731-4680 


W.Tn 


Zenith Distributing of Kansas 


Ks/W.Mo 


12600W. 93rd Street 


Ne/Ok 


Lenexa, Kansas 66215 




(913)888-4800 





Id/Mt 
Or/Wa 



N.Ca/N.Nv 



Northwest Region 

Microware Distributors, Inc. 

2041 5 S.W. Blanton Avenue 

Aloha. Oregon 97007 

(503)642-7692 

Western Micro System 

1 0040 Bubb Road 

Cupertino. California 95014 

(408)725 1660 

Southwest Region 

Premier Source Distributing, Inc. Az/S.Ca 

1 8380 Enterprise Lane Hi/S.Nv 

Huntington Bch.. California 92648 

(714)842-2208 



South Region 

The Stewart Company Tx 

11000 N. Central Expressway 

Dallas. Texas 75243 

(214)691-5555 

Southeast Region 

Allison Erwin Company NC/SC 

2920 No. Tryon Street S.Va 

Charlotte, N. Carolina 28232 

(704)334-8621 

Cain&Bultman AI/FI 

2145 Dennis Street Ga/E.Tn 

Jacksonville, Florida 32203 

(904)356-4812 



262 BYTE July 1983 



(£) SILVER-REED 

SILVER- REED AMERICA, INC. 

8665 Hayden Place, Culver City, California 90230/(213) 837-6104 



South Central Region 

PLUS Distribution 

7330 S. Alton Way, Suite M 

Englewood, Colorado 801 1 2 

(303)850-7383 

Eastern Region 

Erin Computer Distributing 

3 Grace Avenue 

Great Neck, New York 11 021 

(516)482-3202 

Zamoiski 

1101 DeSotoRoad 

Baltimore. Maryland 21223 

(301 ) 644 2900 

Northeast Region 

Data Engineering, Sales 

375 Main Street. Suite 1 

Stoneham, Massachusetts 02180 

(617)438-4700 



Co/NM 
Ut/Wy 



W.Ct/NJ 
NYC 



De/Md 
E.Pa/Wa.DC 



E.Ct/Ma 

Me/NH 

Rl 



Circle 370 on inquiry card. 



U.S. GOV'T SPENDING, GOODS & SERVICES, 72$ 



g 120 



1983 FEDERAL, CALENDAR YERR 

I MILITRRY 



; - ■■: ■■ ■-■ - ■■ ■ ■ ■ ■ - ■■■■ ■■=4 




89 



YEAR 



<£d 



FEDERAL 



STRTE & LOCAL 



Figure 6: Combination bar, line, and pie chart drawn with the Strobe Plotter driven by the Apple Graftalk program running on the 
Sony MBC-1000 computer. Multiple colors are achieved by stopping the program to change to different pens. 



I think you will find the Strobe's strongest point is its 
price. Before the first month of your ownership of the 
Strobe ends, you should find some way to hold the paper 
down adequately. (Probably you will keep a screwdriver 
nearby to tighten and loosen the five small screws in the 



GOV'T SPENDING, GOODS « SERVICES, 72$ 



-HILnHRY 




Figure 7: A pie chart drawn with the Strobe Plotter driven by 
the Apple Business Graphics program. 



hold-down bar for plotting each graph.) You may also 
find the slow speed of the Strobe not objectionable. Pen 
changing is time-consuming, and you will probably find 
one-color plots are preferable after a while. 

When I first saw the advertisements, I yearned to hook 
the Strobe up to my computer. My expectations have 
decreased after living with the Strobe for several months. 
The plotter's usefulness depends On whether independent 
software houses include drives for it with their products. 

The plotter is part of a plotting system; don't select the 
plotter (Strobe or any other) without selecting the soft- 
ware at the same time. Both plotter and software must be 
purchased together to avoid great disappointments on the 
way to an acceptable graph. 

The Strobe certainly is a decent product. Whether it is 
worth the money for you will require a close look on 
your part. I cannot provide an overall "buy" recommen- 
dation, but you will find the Strobe an inexpensive alter- 
native — and a long step forward from the dot-matrix 
screen dumps you may have used up to now. ■ 

About the Author 

Jack Bishop (Bishop Associates, 916 Maple Ave., Evanston, 1L 60202) 
is a management consultant specializing in planning and economic 
issues. His article "Beyond the Peaks of Visicalc" appeared in BYTE in 
October 1982. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publication! Inc 263 



'% ' i" A 



I I 







• IHeVideo 



.. .. .. . 



"I chose TeleVideo's 
Personal Computer for all 

the things IBM left out" 



I didn't choose TeleVideo because it's 
$1,000 less than IBM* It was because 
TeleVideo thought of everything. 

To begin with, my TeleVideo has twice 
as much storage capacity as IBM, even 
with the extra cost IBM disk drive. I can 
use that extra capacity. 

My TeleVideo came with a big 14" 
screen that's easier to read, and it tilts for 
the extra comfort that's so important 
when you use a computer as much as I 
do. With IBM, you pay more for a smaller 
12" screen that doesn't tilt at all. 

Another thing I like. TeleVideo's key- 
board is so lightweight and comfortable 
my fingers hardly know they're working. 
IBM's keyboard? It's a little behind the " 
times. 

TeleVideo also gave me the choice of 
popular CP/M® or MS-DOS® operating 
systems— FREE— so I can pick from 
thousands of proven software programs. 
You can get the same option from IBM, 
but you have to pay for the privilege. 

Last but not least, TeleVideo's network 
capabilities give me a real growth path 



for the future, linking up to sixteen 
computers in one powerful network. You 
can't get that from IBM. 

So before you choose any personal 
computer, do like I did and compare. 
You'll see that TeleVideo gives you a lot 
more computer for a lot less money 
And you'll buy TeleVideo because they 
didn't leave anything out. 

For more information, write TeleVideo 
Systems, Inc., 1170 Morse Ave., Sunny- 
vale, CA 94086, call toll-free 800-538- 
1780 (In California call 800-672-3470 
Ext. 945), call one of our authorized 
distributors or dealers, or contact one of 
our regional sales offices, listed below. 

Northeast Region, 617-369-9370 
Eastern Region, 703-556-7764 
Southeast Region, 404-447-1231 
Midwest Region, 312-969-0112 
South Central Region, 214-258-6776 
Northwest Region, 408-745-7760 
Southwest Region, 714-752-9488 
European Sales (Holland), (31) 075-28-7461 
UK/Scandinavia Sales, (44) 0908-668-778 

TeleVideo Systems are fully serviced nationwide by TRW. 

* Based on manufacturer's suggested retail prices for comparably equipped computer 



®;iele\£deo Systems, Inc. 

Circle 406 on Inquiry card. 

IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines, Inc CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc MS-DOS is a registered trademark of MicroSoft, Inc 




The Touch of Color 

An inexpensive way to add a high-quality keyboard 

to the Color Computer 



by David M. Dacus 



Radio Shack's Color Computer has 
many things going for it, and low cost 
is chief among them. But when com- 
panies set out to build inexpensive 
computers, the keyboard is usually 
the first place they cut costs. I decided 
to give my Color Computer a new 
lease on life with an improved, 
detached keyboard. With a minimal 
investment ($30), I constructed the 
keyboard (see photo 1) and installed 
it without any permanent modifica- 
tions to my computer. 

The Problems 

When we got our Color Computer 
way back in the winter of '80, the 
whole family was impressed with all 
its features and capabilities. As time 
passed, however, we became aware 
of a glaring imperfection — the key- 
board. We were accustomed to the 
touch of an Olympia 77 typewriter, 
and the features of the keyboards of 
Wang, UNIVAC, and VAX equip- 
ment. The feel and layout of the Col- 
or Computer were inferior. 

I discovered other problems when I 




Photo 1: Keyboard in completed case. 
The 16-conductor ribbon cable, extending 
out the back, has a connector that allows 
plug-in replacements. 

began developing a word-processing 
program for the Color Computer. 
There weren't enough keys to provide 
control commands without limiting 
text entry. In addition, we really 
needed a numeric keypad. 

My search for a solution to these 
keyboard problems was complicated 
by my philosophy: I refuse to add 
costly items to the Color Computer 
because its inexpensive price was my 
main reason for buying it. 

No one writing in BYTE or any of 
the other computer magazines I read 



regularly was offering to solve my 
problems for me. In spite of my inex- 
perience with hardware construction, 
I decided to do it myself. 

Feasibility 

The Radio Shack technical manual 
for the Color Computer provides the 
wiring diagram for the simple switch- 
matrix keyboard. I found that the 
only function the keyboard performs 
is the closing of the appropriate cir- 
cuit. The pulse this produces is taken 
care of by the computer's printed- 
circuit (PC) board. The task of con- 
structing a replacement keyboard 
seemed manageable. 

I noticed that there were four slots 
on the keyboard matrix not being 
used by the Color Computer (see 
figure 1). If these unused circuits 
could be decoded as ASCII 
(American National Standard Code 
for Information Interchange) charac- 
ters by the computer, perhaps I could 
use them. 

Through experimentation, I found 
that the unused circuit combinations 



266 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



• • 



128KRAM 

Card Sale 



Alpha Byte..?299!! 

* ^^ 'Manufacturers' suggested list price 

Alpha Byte's new 128K card for the Apple II, Apple II + , and 
Apple lie is now available at this special low price — compare! 
It comes fully-populated with 128K bytes of RAM and can be 
configured to execute any software written to run with Saturn 
Systems' or Legend Industries' 128K RAM cards. Visicalc™ 
expansion and disk emulation software are standard and the 
board comes with a full 2 year no hassle warranty. 



Toorderorfor In Los Angeles: 

information call (213)706-0333 

In Chicago: In Dallas: 

IPUTER (312)454-1236 (214)744-4251 

PRODUCTS InNewVbrk: By Modem: 

31245 LA BAYA DRIVE /OlO^ ROQ-1QOQ (Ofi\ QQ1-1PW1 

WESTLAKE VILLAGE, CA 91362 \£A£.i OL/cJ \\D£-<5 \£\Ot^J^S\ RjUH 1 

We accept VISA, MasterCard or C.O.D. (add $3 for C.O.D.)Add a $3 shipping charge to prepaid orders; actual 
shipping charges will be added to non-prepaids. California residents, add appropriate sales tax. 

Circle 17 on Inquiry card. BYT ^ My "S3 267 




LINE 5 



LINE 7 



LINE 14 



@ \2 



1 



J' 



u 



/' 



2 



2 



2 



2 



F/«" 



1 



2 



</' 



»jA 



l 



J' 



ilS. 



2 



X 



L7«" 



2 



H,J> 



2 



ojJl 



2 



2 



</' 



X 



X 



X 



j- 



*/' "V 



X 



2 



2 



*,2 



2 
2 



X 



'J2. 2 



t i<S\ 



2 



U A 



2* 



~\2 



2 



2 



2 






2 



2 



2' 



2 



2' 



y 



2 
2 



2 



X 



2 



2 



2 



2' 



X 



X 



'JL. 2 



X 



2 



2' 



CLEAR / 9] 



BREA 



«J{ 



UNUSED / t/T 



» UNUSED / 2 



</ UNUSED / <f 



UNUSED / </T 



SHIFT I t/\ 



Figure 1: Matrix of key switches found in the Color Computer's keyboard. To detect a key closure, the computer sends a pulse on 
each line along one axis, while scanning the lines along the other axis. If a key is closed, the pulse will appear on some second-axis 
line. Line 3 has no connection. 



Graphics Plus 




GRAPHICS-PLUS is a field installable enhancement board for 
the popular Zenith 1 Z19 video terminal adding many power- 
ful features found only on terminals costing much more. 
GRAPHICS-PLUS provides Tektronix 2 4010 compatible vector 
drawing graphics. VT100 3 compatible 80 and 132 column 
display formats, off-screen scrolling memory, program- 
mable function keys, "Plain English" menu-driven Set-up 
mode, and a host of other enhancements. Installation can be 
accomplished within 15 minutes using only a screwdriver. 



GRAPHICS-PLUS 

an enhancement 

For Z19 Terminals 

from 

Northwest Digital Systems 

• Tektronix 2 4010 Compatible Graphics 

- 512 Horiz by 250 Vert Resolution 
80/132 Col and 24/49 Line Text Displays 
Seven Page Off-Screen Text Memory 
Menu-driven "Plain English" Set-up Mode 

- 16 Programmable Keys- 128 Chars Each 

• Optional Hardcopy Port 

• Simple Field Installation 1 ™ Zeni,h 



1 TM Zenith 

2 TM Tektronix 

3 TM DEC 



GP- 19 Upgrade for Z19 Terminal S 84 

Z19TerminalWithGP-19lnstalled S 149 

Northwest Digital Systems 
P.O. Box 15288. Seattle, WA98115 (206) 362-6937 



268 July 19»3 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 295 on inquiry card. 



TOLL-FREE 

ORDERING: 

800-222-8686 

FOR TECHNICAL SUPPORT/ 

SERVICE / IN ARIZONA: 

602-282-6299 



CCT 



CUSTOM COMPUTER 
TECHNOLOGY 

1 CRAFTSMAN COURT - BOX 4160 - SEDONA, ARIZONA 86340 

Purchase your Hardware and Software directly from an OEM/Systems Integrator. Take advantage of our buying power! We 
stock a full line of Board Level Components, Software, and Peripherals. Call for your needs. We'll give you the Lowest 
Prices, and the Technical Support and Know-How we are quickly becoming well-known for. Satisfied Customers Nation- 
wide! The Nations's Custom Systems House for Business, Education and Science. Call for a system quote. 



• FOREMOST QUALITY • ADVANCED SUPPORT • REASONABLE COST • 



OF PRIME INTEREST 

Our prime interest at CCT is service and 
support. We build and sell hundreds of 
systems per year to the serious computer 
market. We rigidly adhere to our strict policy 
of reliable machines, and reliable people 
behind them. We feel the CompuPro product 
line to be the state-of-the-art of the com- 
puter industry. 



THE CCT EXCLUSIVE WARRANTY 

With any system we build, we provide, in 
writing, an unconditional 12 month direct 
warranty on the entire system, including 
mainframe, boards, drives, power sup- 
plies, cabling and peripherals! We offer 
guaranteed 24 hour in-house repair and/or 
replacement with just a toll-free phone call. 
We can offer this, since we are so sure of 
our level of quality and reliability. It's great 
to know that in the event of a problem, 
you're not out of business waiting on ser- 
vice turnaround. We deliver! 

Our various OEM contracts with all the 
manufacturers of the components we in- 
tegrate, allow us this unprecedented flex- 
ibility. No factory O.K.'s necessary — just 
get it running — NOW! 



Wyse 100 terminal $769. 

Mitsubishi 8" DSDD drives, full or half 
height $449. 

Okidata 82 $419/83 $679 

84 . . $1029/92 . . $559/93 .. $930 

Ashton-Tate dBASE II $459 

Hays Modem-$259 • Diablo 620-$1 029 

MORROW MICRO DECISION 

IN CCT 

STOCKI TESTED! 

1 Drive $899 • 2 Drive $1249 
Morrow Terminal -$499 



Our in-house cabling Department has 
cables in stock for all CompuPro boards, 
drives, power supplies, printers, ter- 
minals and modems. The highest quality 
— at reasonable prices. 



TECH TIP CORNER 

Replace that bothersome CP/M 80 
Control-S with the space bar! Use DDT, 
change location 1 F34 from 1 3 to 20 — Have 
fun — Pat... 




(ompuPro 



PROFESSIONAL LEVEL BUSINESS SYSTEMS 

STATE-OF-THE-ART QUALITY, PERFORMANCE, RELIABILITY 



PPT AMKIHI IMPCC- 0UR 0WN in-house engineered 
I/O I HIMIMUUIMOCO. custom compupro systems 

CCT-1 - ENTRY LEVEL S-100 BUSINESS SYSTEM 



Enclosure 2-Desk-20 Slot Mainframe 
CPU 8085/88 - 6Mhz 8085/8Mhz 8088 
Disk 1 - DMA Floppy Disk Controller 
RAM 17 -64K Static RAM- 12 Mhz 
Interfacer 4 - 3 Serial/2 Parallel I/O 



CCT Dual 8" Mitsubishi 

DSDD Drive System - 2.4 Megabytes 

CP/M 80 - 2.2 LD/M - CCT Modified 

All Cabling, Complete CCT Assembly, 

Testing, and minimum 20 Hour Burn-in 



INTRODUCTORY PRICE: 

$3,650 



RUNS ALL STANDARD 8" CP/M SOFTWARE - INCLUDES OUR EXCLUSIVE 12 MONTH DIRECT WARRANTY 

CP/ M MP/ M NOTE: Each copy we furnish is CCT modified for the target system. M-Drive/H and hard disk drivers are furnished, 
and the BIOS optimized for the fastest disk step rate, as well as terminal and printer compatibility. 



* * CCT-2* • COMING SOON • * WATCH THE FAST LANE FOR THIS ONE * • 

Designed for large users, complex programmers, and program intensive applications. 

THE FASTEST MICROCOMPUTER IN THE WORLD!! 

1 6 Bit • 1 Mhz + • M-Drive/H • I/O mapped on-the-bus terminal • Ultra-fast disk ! 
Unreal speed — Leaves the rest of the world at the starting line 

We are the largest in the custom configuration of complete state-of-the-art S-100 systems, at package pricing, with integration, 
burn-in and programming. We custom build CompuPro systems / hard disk systems for business applications. Call for Com- 
puPro literature, CCT system configuration data and technical information. 



COMPUPRO COMPONENTS 

LIMITED SPECIALS: System 81 6A-S4395 System 816B-S5595 System 816C-S7195 Call for other systems 

M-DriveCP/M-64K-$429 • Disk 1w/CP/M-$489 • M-Drive/H-512K-$1399 

CPU 8085/88-$379 • CPU 8086/87-$579 • CPU68K-$519 • CPU-Z-$249 

Disk 1 -$369 • Disk 2-$599 • Disk ZBE-CALL! • Disk 3-SOON! 

RAM17(12MHZ)-$359 • RAM 16(12MHZ)-$399 • RAM 21 (128K)-$849 • RAM 22(256K)-$1899 

Interfacer 1- $229 • Interfacer 2-$249 • Interfacer 3-5-$459/3-8-$539 • Interfacer 4-$349 

System Support 1 -$349 • Enclosure 2-Desk-$659/Rack-$699 

CP/M80-$149 • CP/M86-$259 • MP/M8-16-$769 • CP/M68K-$279 • Forth 68K-$169 

Call for CSC Boards — New Releases — Operating System Mods/Updates 



? ? 

24 Megabyte hard/floppy 

CCT/ Fujitsu/ Mitsubishi ultra-system: 
23 meg. hard disk next to 1.2 meg. 8" 
DSDD floppy drive. Includes disk 2 board 
set, all cabling, A&T, formatting, burn-in. 
Will stand alone in any CompuPro system. 
$3699 



HARD DISK DECISIONS ? ? 

23 Megabyte subsystem 2.4 Megabyte floppy system 

CCT/Fujitsu 23 megabyte hard disk sub- CCT/ Mitsubishi 2.4 megabyte dual DSDD 

system. Includes disk 2 board set, all 8" system. Includes all cabling, A&T, 

cabling, A&T, formatting, burn-in. Ready burn-in. This is the fastest system available: 
for any CompuPro system: 



$3199 



$1149 



Prices & availability subject to change. All products new, and carry full manufacturer's warranties. Call for catalog. Free technical help 
to anyone. We can configure boards & software for your system. Plug-in and go. Arizona Residents add sales tax. 
CompuPro* Trademark- W.J. Godbout; CP/M" MP/M* Trademarks - Digital Research 



Circle 120 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 269 




Yesterday's most 
up-to-date 

source of career 
opportunities 4 

looked like this. 



Today's technical career market changes fast. 
But now there's a way to keep up with it. 
This new key to career opportunity is your 
personal computer. And the cost is nothing but 
a phone call. , ! " ■_ 

Just call CLEO. That stands for Computer 
Listings of Employment Opportunities 

Unlike a newspaper, CLEO responds to your 
commands. You specify what job categories, 
companies, or geographic 'nations interest you. 
CLEO calls up the appropriate ads right on your 
screen. At every step, you're guided by explicit 
online instructions. . 

Daily updates keep CLEO job listings current. 
You can even apply for positions right from your 
own terminal. For a detailed job search, or just 
an idea of what's available, CLEO is waiting for 
vour call today. With today's opportunities. 
CLEO access. (213) 618-8800 
300 BAUD, full duplex, standard ASCII code. 
Access assistance: (213) 618-1525. An electronic 
publishing activity of The Copley Press, Inc. 



Today, 

it looks like this. 

Recruitment advertisers - call (213) «8-0MO collect 
to find out how you can place your ad on CLEO. 




rat 

I 
■ 



"J 














Circle 478 on inquiry card. 



do indeed work as follows: 

• Lead 8 connected to lead 12 sends 
an @ (ASCII code 64) and nothing 
while the shift key is pressed. 

• Lead 8 connected to lead 13 sends a 
graphic symbol (ASCII code 189) and 
an SOH (start of header, ASCII code 
1) when shifted. 

• Lead 8 connected to lead 14 sends g 
(ASCII code 103) whether shifted or 
not. 

• Lead 8 connected to lead 15 sends 
EOT (end of text, ASCII code 4) and 
a graphics character when shifted. 

The circuits 8 connected to 12 and 8 
connected to 14 were not unique on 
the keyboard and so could not be 
used for control of word processing: 
but 8 connected to 13 and 8 connect- 
ed to 15 were exactly what I needed. 

I obtained a Key Tronic 66-key 
keyboard from Poly Paks of Wake- 
field, Massachusetts (see photo 2) 
and ran a test to determine if I could 
use the existing printed circuits. The 
keyboard has a 20-lead matrix that 
appears to be set up for a dedicated 
word processor. I was able to use a 
few of the leads on the board, but 
most had to be cut. 

The key contacts are easily accessi- 
ble from the bottom of the circuit 
board. The contacts are two wires 
soldered to traces on the circuit board 
(see photo 2b). This arrangement pro- 



vides a simple means of connecting 
the key to the appropriate leads of the 
wiring matrix. I suggest the following 
procedure for construction of the new 
Color Computer keyboard. 

Circuit Board Preparation 

Determine from the keyboard 
matrix (see figure 1) which keys must 
be connected to which leads. Use the 
following protocol: Connect the ver- 
tical leads (lines 1 through 8, except 
line 3, which is used only as a ground 




Photo 2a and b: Two sides of the Key 
Tronic replacement keyboard. 



on the main circuit board) to the top 
lead of appropriate keys, and the 
horizontal leads (lines 9 through 16) 
to the bottom lead of the appropriate 
keys. Select nonalphanumeric keys to 



connect to leads 8 connected to 12 
through 8 connected to 15. 

Once you determine which keys to 
interconnect (see table 1), study the 
printed circuits of the keyboard. Use 
a felt-tip pen to mark the appropriate 
PCs that will connect the keys. You 
must remove the keys to reach the cir- 
cuits printed on the top of the board. 
Remove and replace the keys with a 
small Phillips screwdriver. 

After marking all of the circuits 
you need, use a high-speed grinder 
with a round burr to cut all unwanted 
traces. Carefully remove all debris 
from the board to prevent short cir- 
cuits; then reinstall the keys. 

Rewiring the Keyboard 

Use a 30-watt pencil-type soldering 
iron and 30 AWG insulated wire- 
wrap wire to connect each lead to the 
keys as indicated in table 1. Solder 
quicjdy to avoid loosening key 
switches or melting insulation. Make 
your connections as direct as possible 
without bridging unconnected solder 
points. 

Cut a wire-wrap female header so 
that you have a 16-pin single-inline 
connector. Then use a wire-wrap tool 
to attach wire to pins 1, 2, and 4 
through 16. Solder these if you want 
extra security. If you hold the header 
with the wire-wrap pins pointing at 
you, the pins are numbered from left 
to right. Solder each numbered wire 



a message to our subscribers 

From time to time we make the BYTE subscriber list available to other companies who wish to send our sub- 
scribers material about their products. We take great care to screen these companies, choosing only those 
who are reputable, and whose products, services, or information we feel would be of interest to you. Direct 
mail is an efficient medium for presenting the latest personal computer goods and services to our subscribers. 

Many BYTE subscribers appreciate this controlled use of our mailing list, and look forward to finding informa- 
tion of interest to them in the mail. Used are our subscribers' names and addresses only (no other informa- 
tion we may have is ever given). 

While we believe the distribution of this information is of benefit to our subscribers, we firmly respect the 
wishes of any subscriber who does not want to receive such promotional literature. Should you wish to 
restrict the use of your name, simply send your request to the following address. 

BYTE Publications Inc 

Attn: Circulation Department 

70 Main St 

Peterborough NH 

03458 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 271 




THE PERSONAL 

COMPUTERS 
DESIGNED FOR 

PEOPLE WHO 
DON'T KNOW HOW 

TO USE ONE. 




DECmota H The fully supported office and small business system. 



Until now there were only two ways most people could 
learn to use a personal computer. Struggle through a manual. Or some- 
how push buttons until you get the hang of it. The 
first way could take several months. The second, 
several years. 

So Digital Equipment Corporation, 
the world's second largest computer 
company, perfected a third way. It's 
called Computer-Based Instruction: 
the personal computer, itself, teaches you. The 
program lasts about an hour. And, when you're 
finished, you know how to operate Digital's 
personal computer. 

We didn't stop there, 
though. We designed a keyboard 
that makes sense the first time you use it. We also put in a "Help" key 
with all kinds of aids and prompts to guide you along as you work. 

P Chances are there are millions of 

people who'd like to learn to use a personal 
, computer but don't have the time or 
the patience. 
/ ^^B^^ Now you don't need either. 

For a brochure on our 
i three new personal computers, 
call 1-800-DIGITAL. Or write: 
Digital Equipment Corporation, 200 Baker Avenue, Concord, MA 01742. 



• ''.''.'' ''. ''.' , . ''.''.' '.' , .''. i 




PROFESSIONAL 300 SERIES The minicomputer of personal computers. 




RAINBOW 100 The low-cost, high-performance machine. 



Professional <5U. DECmale. and Rainbow IIH) art' trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation 
© Digital Equipment Corporation BbB 



BDBDDSD 



Circle 140 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 273 



Circle 318 on Inquiry card. 



P&TCP/M @ 2is 
GROWING a 



O MOO^ 









'* $«*« 



^#<«I$ 



ode* 






80 



c*uo< 



\ocW 



**«* •■ 1 



A2 






,<° 









W 



O »**° 






H^° 






AO. 



; 20 



W* 



C°' 



,W^> S 






Start with a Model II floppy system and 
grow into a hard disk. Since all P&T 
CP/M 2 systems are fully compatible, 
you will have no conversion worries. 
Special note: P&T hard disk systems 
allow you the user to configure logical 
drive assignments to your specifications. 
Write for more details. 

Prepaid VISA, M/C, or COD orders accepted. 
All prices FOB Goleta and subject to change. 
CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital 
Research. TRS-80 is atrademark of Tandy Corp. 



PICKLES T)JCKLE< 
& TROUT 



P.O. BOX 1206 

GOLETA, CA 93116 

(805) 685-4641 



TrouT 



Line 


Connect to top 


ead 


wire of the following keys: 










1 


@ 


A 




B 


C D 


E 




F 


G 


2 


H 


1 




J 


K L 


M 




N 





3 


no connection 
















4 


P 


Q 




R 


S T 


U 




V 


W 


5 


X 


Y 




Z 


t 1 


— 




— 


Space 


6 





1 




2 


3 4 


5 




6 


7 


7 


8 


9 








- 






/ 


8 


Enter 


Clear 




Break 


F1 F2 


F3 




F4 


Shift 


Line 


Connect to bottom lead wire 


of the following keys: 








9 


@ 


H 




P 


X 


8 




Enter 




10 


A 


I 




Q 


Y 1 


9 




Clear 




11 


B 


J 




R 


Z 2 






Break 




12 


C 


K 




S 


t 3 


; 




F1 




13 


D 


L 




T 


1 4 


, 




F2 




14 


E 


M 




U 


5 


- 




F3 




15 


F 


N 




V 


6 






F4 




16 


G 







w 


Space 7 


/ 




Shift 




Table 1: 


Key connections. 


By 


modifying the keyboard sc 


that 


it matches these 


specifications, the Color Computer can 


access the keys just 


as 


it does its 


standard 


keyboard 






















to the key closest to the top of the 
board in the appropriately numbered 
line (see photo 3). 

Constructing the Cable 

Connect a 16-pin male header to 
one end of a 16-conductor ribbon 
cable, and a 16-pin female connector 
to the other end. The numbering 
scheme for the header connectors and 
ribbon cable must be identical to that 
used for the header connector at- 
tached to the keyboard (see photo 
3b). Do not connect conductor 
number 3 on either end. 

If you have difficulty locating 



Photo 3a, b, and c: Major components re- 
quired for installing the replacement 
keyboard. Photo 3a shows the modified 
Key Tronic keyboard with its 16-pin con- 
nector that mates with the ribbon cable in 
photo 3b. The other end of the cable is 
connected in place of the Color 
Computer's standard keyboard as shown 
in photo 3c. 

16-conductor ribbon cable, you can 
split either 20- or 40-conductor cable 
if necessary (Radio Shack sells both). 
I used a 5-foot length because that is 
the length Radio Shack sells and 
because with that length I can place 
my computer at the rear of my table, 
freeing plenty of space around my 
workstation. 

Checking for Errors 

Use an ohmmeter with small 
probes to check all circuits. Refer to 
figure 1 for the appropriate leads for 
each character. If you connect the 
probes to the appropriate leads for a 
Text continued on page 279 



274 July 1983 © BYTE Publication! lnc 



Your DATABASE Specialists 



dBASE 1 1 



$398 



The most widely sold DBMS for micros, dBASE 
II defines the state of the art. An inexperienced 
user can create a dBASE file, begin data entry, 
and print out a report in minutes; the experienced 
programmer can create complex program sys- 
tems using dBASE'S unique programming lan- 
guage. Both can use automatic program gener- 
ators and other programming tools to create 
applications quickly and easily. 



Condor 3 



QUICKCODE: Automatically creates menus and 
"intelligent" data entry screens which check input for 
correctness. Eliminates 80-100% of dBASE 
programming time! 

dUTIL: Formats programs to make them easier to read, 
detects some errors and combines program files to 
make them run fast! 

dGRAPH: Allows you to see your dBASE file in graphic 
form — a real aid to understanding. 

ABSTAT: Allows you to analyze your data using a wide 
variety of statistical tests. Can be used with dBASE 
files or by itself. Also does bar graphs and plots. 



$185.00 

$59.00 

$195.00 
$359.00 



$398 



dBASE H's leading rival, Condor 3 is a relational 
DBMS with powerful query and report generation 
capabilities similar to those on main frames. 



Condor 1 : Lacks the query and report generation 
facilities of Condor 3. Excellent for simpler applications. 

1-to-3 upgrade: When you need more power, this low 
cost kit will get you there. 



$189.00 
$225.00 





Orders must be PAID by JULY 31 to qualify 
for these special prices 






PRoqRAMiwiNq InternatIonaI 
(800)222-8811 

Inside California: 
(415)324-3730 




Circle 333 on inquiry card. 




BYTE July 1983 275 



Your IBM PC Source 



PROGRAMMING INTERNATIONAL 



PC SOFTWARE - MS DOS 



LIST SALE 
Advanced Operating Systems 

The Programmer... 200 150 
Alpha Software 

Apple-IBM 

Connection 195 135 

Database Manager . 245 169 

MailList 95 67 

Typefaces 125 87 

American Training International 

PowerforPCDOS . 75 56 
Applied Software Technology 

QBASE 189 143 

Versaform 389 259 

Aptek 

Epson to Prism 38 

PC Ticker Tape 22 

Rainbow Writer .... 125 

Ashton-Tate 

dBASEII [5] 700 398 

dBASE II w/User's 

Guide [5] 729 449 

Financial Planner .. 700 489 
Aspen Software 

Grammatik 75 56 

Proofreader 32K ... 50 38 

Proofreader 50K ... 50 38 

Proofreader 80K ... 50 38 
Beaman Porter 

Powertext 399 369 

Best Products 

Personal Financial 

pgm 95 66 

Bible Research 

THE WORD 

Processor 146 

Byrom Software 

BSTAM 200 149 

BSTMS 200 149 

Cavalier 

Championship 

Blackjack 40 30 

Central Point Software 

COPYIIPC 40 35 

Comprehensive Software Support 

PCTutor 80 60 

Comshare 

Financial Modeling 325 264 
Conceptual Instruments 

Desk Organizer 245 

Condor 

Condorl 295 189 

Condor3 650 398 

Continental Software 

FCM (First Class 

Mail) 125 79 

Home Accountant 

Plus 150 99 

Property 

Management 495 359 

Datamost 

Real Estate Inves. 

Prg 130 95 

Denver Software 

Easy 750 562 

Eagle 

Money Decisions 

VoM 199 129 

Money Decisions 

Vol2 230 169 

Money Pack Vol 1 

&2 400 299 

Emerging Technology 



Edix 195 149 

WORDIX 195 149 

EDIX + WORDIX .. 390 279 

Fox&Geller 

dGRAPH 295 195 

dUTIL 99 59 

Quickcode 295 185 

Friendly Software 
Friendlyware 50 38 

Hayes 
Smartcom2 119 90 

Howard Sams 
Programmer 200 150 

Howard Software 
Real Estate 

Analyzer 250 185 

Tax Preparer 1983 . 250 185 

Information Solutions, Inc. 
25:01 The 25th 
Hour 100 74 

IUS 

EasyFiler 400 279 

EasyPlanner 250 188 

Easy Speller 2 225 135 

Easy Speller 2/ 

Legal 350 229 

Easy Speller 2/ 

Medical 350 229 

Easy Writer 1 1 350 229 

Financial Mgmt 

(AR/AP/GL) 1495 1019 

AP 595 389 

AR 595 389 

GL 595 389 

Inventory 595 389 

OrderEntry 595 389 

Payroll 595 389 

Innovative Software 

FastGraphs 295 159 

TIM lit 495 279 

Insoft 
DataDesign 225 169 

Intellect Associates 

PCText 100 73 

Window 150 113 

ISM 

Graphmagic 90 65 

Graphmagic Combo 

150 119 

Mathemagic 90 65 

Lexisoft 
Spellbinder 495 259 

Lifeboat 
C-Food 

Smorgasbord 150 125 

Lattice C Compiler . 500 415 

Llletree 
Volkswriter 195 129 

Lightning 
MasterType 50 38 

Link Systems 
DataFax 299 224 

Lotus 
1-2-3 495 369 

Mark of The Unicorn 

FinalWord 300 223 

Mince 175 139 

Metasoft 
Benchmark Mail 

List 250 184 

Benchmark Word 

processor 500 367 



Micro Lab 

Tax Manager 250 

Micro Pro 

Infostar [4] 495 

Mailmerge 250 

Reportstar 350 

Spellstar 250 

Word/Mail [4] 695 

Word/Spell [4] 695 

Word/Spell/ 

Mail [4] 845 

Wordstar 1/41 495 

Microcraft 
Legal Billing/ 

Timekeeping 750 

Professional 
Billing/Time 750 

Microsoft 
Flight Simulator.... 50 

M-Lisp/nStart 250 

Multiplan 275 

(iMath/fiSimp 300 

Microstuf 
Crosstalk/ 
Smartmodem 195 

North American 
«ANSWER» ... 250 

Northwest Analytical 
Statpak 495 

Oasis 
Punctuation & 

Style 

TheWordPlus 150 

PBL Corporation 
Personal Investor .. 145 

PC Software 
Creatabase 75 

Peachtree 
Series 4 Pak(GL/ 
AR/AP) 595 

Peter Norton 
Utilities 80 

Ryan-McFarland 
RM/Cobol Full 

DevSystem 950 

RM/Cobol Runtime 
Only 250 

Scripps Data 
Job Cost system ... 495 

Select Information Systems 
Select 
Wordprocessor .... 595 

Softward 
Wordmak 500 

Software Arts 
TKISolver 

Software Products International 

Logicalc 190 

Logiquestll 250 

Logiquest III 550 

Procalc 350 

Software Publishers 

PFS: File 140 

PFS:Report 125 

Software Technology 
TheCreator 300 

Sorcim 

Supercalc 195 

Supercalc2 295 

Superspellguard ... 195 
Superwriter 295 

Southeastern 



327 
165 
231 
165 
426 
426 

558 
327 



385 

385 

38 
188 
189 
225 



159 



369 



109 
112 



98 



349 



371 



356 



224 

I 

142 

188 

412 

262 

105 
94 

224 

129 
185 
129 
179 



PRoqRAMMii\q IinternatjonaI 
(800)222-8811 

Inside California: 
(415)324-3730 



DataCapture 120 90 

Supersoft 

Optimizer 200 149 

Personal Data Base 125 93 

Synapse Video 

FileManager 150 112 

Synergistic 

DataReporter 250 169 

Texasoft 

Thinker 75 56 

Versatext 200 172 

Versa Computing 

Graphics Hardcopy 25 19 
Versawriter 

Graphics Tablet .... 299 249 

Vlsicorp 
Business 

Forecasting Model . 100 78 

Desktop Plan 300 229 

Visicalc 250 169 

Visidex 250 189 

Visifile 300 219 

Visischedule 300 234 

Visispell 225 183 

Visitrend/plot 300 215 

Visiword 375 298 

Wool) 

Movelt 150 99 



PC SOFTWARE— CP/M 86 

AshtonTate LIST SALE 

dBASEII 700 398 

Byrom Software 

BSTAM 200 149 

BSTMS 200 149 

Comshare 
Financial Modeling 325 264 

Dictronics 
Random House 
Thesaurus 150 113 

Digital Research 

CBASIC86 200 150 

CIS COBOL 86 800 600 

Concurrent 

CP/M-86 350 264 

CP/M-86 60 45 

Level 2 COBOL 86. 1600 1200 

Pascal MT + 86 400 300 

Pascal MT + 86 

withSPP-86 600 450 

SID86 150 94 

Metasoft 
Benchmark Mail 

List 250 184 

Benchmark Word 

Processor 500 367 

Micro Focus 
CIS COBOL 8086... 850 637 

Organic Software 

Datebook 395 331 

Milestone 395 269 

Ryan-McFarlandCorp 
RM/COBOL Full 

DevSystem 950 713 

RM/COBOL 

Runtime Only 250 188 

Structured Systems 

Analyst 250 188 

AP 1250 790 

AR 1250 790 

GL 1250 790 

Inventory 1250 790 

Letteright 200 150 

NAD 100 75 

OrderEntry 1250 790 

PR 1250 790 

QSort 100 75 

Woolf 
Movelt 150 99 



PC GAMES 



Acorn Software LIST SALE 

LostColony 30 22 

Automated Simulations/EPYX 

CurseofRa 20 15 

Temple of Apshai ... 40 30 

Upper Reaches 

ofApshai 20 15 

Avalon Hill 
Andromeda 

Conquest 23 17 

Computer Stocks 

8iBonds 25 19 

Draw Poker 21 16 

Galaxy 25 19 

Midway Campaign .21 16 

Voyager 25 19 

Blue Chip 

Millionaire 100 75 

Broderbund Software 

ApplePanic 30 22 

Datamost 

PigPen 30 22 

Space Strike 30 22 

Infocom 

Deadline 50 37 

Starcross 40 30 

Suspended 50 38 

Zorkl 40 30 

Zorkll 40 30 

Zorklll 40 30 

Omrlc 

Blingsplats 35 26 

Championship 

Draughts 35 26 

Space Guardian .... 30 22 

Sierra On Line 

Crossfire 30 22 

Frogger 35 26 

Ulysses & Golden 

Fleece 40 29 

Sirius 
Conquest (Call to 

Arms) 30 22 

Strategic Simulations 

Warp Factor 40 30 

PC HARDWARE 

PI LIST SALE 

PC-Hayes Cable .... 35 29 
AST Research 

Combo + 64K 595 429 

Mega + 64K 595 429 

Corvus 
PC Interface, 
Cable, Man 300 239 

Kraft 
Joystick 70 52 

Microsolt 

64KRAM 350 249 

64K RAM Chip Set . 175 139 

128KRAM 525 379 

192K RAM card .... 700 499 
256K RAM card .... 875 624 

QCS 
Big Blue 595 449 

Quadram 
64KQuadboard .... 395 289 
256KQuadboard... 595 435 

Symtec 
LightPen 150 126 

Tandon 
TM100-2 Drive 
(5VVDS) [5] 650 249 

TG 

Joystick 65 49 

Trackball 65 49 



276 BYTE July 1983 



Circle 334 on inquiry card. 



Your APPLE Source 




APPLE 11/11+ DOS 



Applied Software 






Technology 


LIST 


SALE 


Versaform 


389 


269 


Versaform-Pascal 


245 


180 


Versatorm/Corvus 






HrdDisk 


495 


360 


ARTSCI 






Magic Mailer 


70 


49 


Magic Pack Combo 


225 


156 


Magic Window 


100 


75 


MagicWindowll ... 


150 


109 


Magic Words 


70 


49 


Avant Garde 






Ultra Plot/DIF/ 






Datagraph 


99 


71 


Beagle Brothers 






Apple Mechanic .... 


30 


22 




30 


23 


DOS Boss 


24 


17 


Flex Text 


30 


23 


ProntoDOS 


30 


23 


UtilityCity 


30 


22 


Broderbund Software 






Bank Street Writer 


70 


53 


General Ledger 






w/AP 


495 


305 


Payroll 


395 


275 


Compoter Station 






Combined 






Enhanced Graphics 


55 


40 


Station Master 


175 


136 


Comshare 






Image Maker 


175 


126 


Continental Software 






CPA#1.2,3,4 






(all 4) [5] 


1000 


609 


CPA#1-GL 


250 


159 


CPA#2-AR 


250 
250 


159 


CPA#3-AP 


159 


CPA#4-Payroll ... 


250 


159 


CPA #5-Property 






Management 


495 


352 


FCM (First Class 






Mail) 


100 


75 


Home Accountant.. 


75 


52 


Crane 






Menu Generator .... 


40 


29 


Creative Curriculum 






Speed Reading 






Courseware 


99 


n 


Dakin5 






Business Book- 






keeping System .... 


395 


299 


Budget Planner .... 


150 


112 


Depreciation 








395 


299 


Datamost 






Reap (Real Estate) . 


130 


90 




130 


90 


WriteOn 


130 


99 


Datasoft 






BASICCompiler... 


100 


75 


Lisp Interpreter .... 


125 


94 


Micropainter 


35 


25 


Decision Software 






Accountant 


129 


97 


Accountant with 






DBCalc 


149 


112 


DBCalc 




20 


Delta Software 






Bookkeeper Check 






Writer 


40 


29 


Bookkeeper Master 


90 


68 


Denver 






Financial Partner ... 


250 


188 


Pascal Programmer 








296 
125 


223 


Pascal Tutor 


97 


Eduware 








40 


30 




40 


30 


Algebra 3 


40 


30 


Compu-Math/ 






Arithmetic Ski 


50 


37 


Compu-Read 


30 


22 


Compu-Spell/ 






Data Disk 4-8 (ea) . 


20 


15 


Compu-Spell/ 






System 


30 


22 


Counting Bee 


30 


22 




49 
49 


37 


Fractions 


37 



Metri-Vert 16 

Perception 25 

PSAT Word Attack 49 

Rendezvous 40 

SAT Word Attack ... 49 
Spell Bee w/ 

Reading Primer ... 40 

Statistics 30 

Hayden 

Piewriter/Multi 

80Column 150 

Piewriter/Standard 150 

Hayes 
Micromodem II 

w/TermPgm 409 

Terminal Program . 100 

Highlands 

CRAE 40 

EZLedger 60 

MCAT 25 

Howard 
Creative Financing 

1983 195 

Real Estate 

Analyzer 195 

Tax Preparer 1983 . 225 

IUS 

Datadex 150 

Datadex/Hard Disk . 300 

Easy Mover 100 

Forth Development 

System 140 

Tellstar Level 1 40 

TellstarLevel2 80 

Insoft 

ALD System II 75 

Electric Duet 30 

Graforthll 75 

Transforthll 125 

ISM 

Graphmagic 90 

Mathemagic 90 

Kensington 

Formatll 150 

Lightning 

Master Type 40 

Link Systems 

DataFax 199 

DataLink 100 

LinkDisk 70 

Linklndex 195 

I i-k Sampler 60 

LinkVideo 55 

UK Enterprises 

Data Perfect 100 

Edit6502 100 

Lettr Pefct HI 

MailMerge 150 

Lotus 
Executive Briefing 

System 199 

Micro Lab 

Asset Manager 200 

Data Factory 300 

English SAT #1 .... 30 

Invoice Factory 200 

Learning System... 150 

Merger 50 

Painter Power 40 

Payroll Manager ... 300 

TaxManager 180 

US Constitution 

Tutor 30 

Visiblend 50 

Visifactory 75 

WallStreeter 300 

Microsoft 
Applesoft Compiler 

(TASC) 175 

Multiplan 275 

n.MathVSimp 

(ADIOS) 250 

Time Manager 150 

Typing Tutor II 25 

Muse 

Address Book 50 

Dataplot 60 

Elementary math ... 40 
Form Letter Module 

100 

Supertext Home 

Office 125 

Supertext 

Professional 99 

The Voice 40 



12 


Omega 






19 


Inspector 


60 


49 


37 


Locksmith 


100 


lb 


30 


Optimized System Software, 


Inc. 


37 


Speed Read Plus ... 
PBL 


60 


43 


30 


Personal Investor .. 


145 


99 


22 


Penguin 

Additional Fonts 








CharSet 


20 


15 


108 


Comp Graphics/ 






108 


Apple Tablet 

Complete Graphics 


120 


86 




System 


70 


50 


289 


Graphics Magician . 


60 


45 


75 


Special Effects 
Special Effects 


40 


30 


30 


Apple Tablet 


70 


50 


37 


Phoenix 






19 


Zoom Graphics 
Program Design 


50 


38 




New Step-By-Step 


bU 


58 


149 


Quality Software 








Bag of Tricks 


40 


30 


146 


GBS— DBAppI 






179 


Dev Program 

Sensible 


650 


488 


108 


Applesoft + 






216 


Struc. BASIC 


40 


30 


75 


Best 


40 


30 




Bug, The 


50 


32 


101 




30 


23 


30 


Disk Organizer 


30 


23 


58 


Disk Recovery 


30 


23 




DOS Plus 


25 


19 


56 


EditSoft 


40 


30 


23 


Image Printer 




56 


Epson 


40 


30 


94 


Image Printer 










40 


Ml 


65 


Image Prtr NEC/ 






65 




40 


go 




Multi Disk Catalog . 


25 


19 


113 


Quadrant6112 


30 


23 




Quickloader 


25 


19 


30 


Sensible Speller.... 
Sensible Speller 


125 


94 


149 


Pascal 


125 


94 


75 


Sens. Speller 






51 


WordHandler 


125 


94 


149 


Super Disk Copy ... 


35 


26 


45 


Sierra On Line 






42 




100 


70 




EPFIV 


80 


56 


78 


General Manager II 


230 


168 


78 


Screenwriter II 
Screenwriter 


130 


85 


112 


Professional 

Silicon Valley 


200 


149 




Dictionary 


125 


94 


149 


List Handler 


90 


68 




WordHandler 


199 


145 


144 


Sirlus 






216 


Pascal Graphics 






22 


Editor 


100 


/5 


144 


SOF/SYS 














37 




250 


188 


30 


Executive Speller .. 


75 


56 


216 


Softech 






129 


BASICCompiler 








& Runtime [5] 


225 


169 


22 


Sof teach 


125 


94 


37 


UCSD p-System 






54 


Set 


625 


469 


216 


Xenofile 

Software Dimensions 
Accounting + II 


50 


39 


119 


AP 


395 


289 


198 


•AR 


395 


289 




•GL 


395 


289 


194 


• Inventory 


395 


289 


116 


• Payroll 


395 


289 


19 


• POE 


395 


289 




•POS 


395 


289 


36 


•SOE 


395 


289 


43 


Software Publishers 






29 


PFS: File 


125 


94 




PFS: Graph 


125 


94 


75 


PFS: Report 
Southeastern 


125 


94 


94 


Data Capture 
Data Capture/ 


65 


49 


/4 


Smarterm 


90 


65 


29 


DataCapture/Videx 


90 


65 



Data Capture/ 

Super Serial 90 65 

Data Capture/ 

Superterm 90 65 

Southwestern 

ASCII Express 

Professionl 130 89 

Merlin 65 49 

Printographer 50 38 

Stoneware 

Compucube 30 23 

DBMaster 229 148 

DBMaster/Hard 

Disk 499 359 

Electronic Price 

Sheet 100 75 

Graphics Proc 

Sys(Prof) 179 129 

Graphics Proc. 

Sys(Std) 69 52 

Micro Memo 

Statpak 99 71 

Utility Pak1 99 65 

Utility Pak2 99 65 

Synergistic 

Data Reporter 220 158 

Data Reporter/ 

HardDisk 220 158 

Global Pgm Line 

Editor 65 49 

Higher Graphics II . 3 26 

Higher Textll 40 30 

Integer BASIC 

Compiler 150 108 

Mailing List 

Database 50 38 

Modifiable 

Database 80 59 

Program Line 

Editor 40 30 

Stargazer's Guide 30 23 
Versa Computing 

AXE-Apple 

Extended Editor .... 70 53 

Versawriter Exp. 

Pak1 40 30 

Versawriter Exp. 

Pak2 40 30 

Videx 

80ColPreboot 

Applewriter 19 15 

80 Co! Preboot 

Visicalc 49 37 

Videoterm Utilities 

Disk 37 28 

Visicalc Mem Ex 

w/Preboot 89 67 

Visicorp 

Business 

Forecasting Model . 100 78 

Desktop Plan 250 194 

Visicalc 250 169 

Visidex 250 194 

Visifile 250 169 

Visilink 250 194 

Visiplot 200 156 

Visischedule 300 234 

Visiterm 100 79 

Visitrend/Plot 300 234 

Winner's Circle 

Disk Encryption .... 60 45 

APPLE lie SOFTWARE 

Most Apple II products also run on 
the lie (call for details) . Products be- 
low are specially designed for the lie. 

Software Dimensions LIST SALE 

Accounting + lie 

AP 395 289 

•AR 395 289 

•GL 395 289 



• Inventor 395 

• Payroll 395 

•POE 395 

•POS 395 

•SOE 395 

Software Publishers 

PFS: File 125 

PFS:Graph 125 

PFS:Report 125 

Visicorp 

Visicalc 250 



289 
289 
289 
289 
289 

94 
94 
94 

189 



APPLE /// SOFTWARE 

Applied Software 

Technology LIST SALE 

Versaform 495 371 

Datamost 

WriteOn 130 99 

Denver Software 

EASY 750 562 

Insoft 

ALD System III 75 56 

Transforthlll 125 94 

Link Systems 

DataFax 249 187 

Linklndex 195 149 

Link Sampler I 60 45 

LinkVideo 55 42 

Software Publishers 

PFS: File 175 129 

PFS:Graph 175 129 

PFS:Report 125 94 

Visicorp 
Business 

Forecasting Model . 100 78 

Desktop Plan 300 234 

Visicalc Advanced . 400 312 

Visischedule 300 234 

APPLE HARDWARE 

Eastslde LIST SALE 

Wildcard 130 109 

Hayes 

Micromodem II [5] 379 259 
Kensington 

System Saver Fan .. 90 69 
Kraft 

Joystick 65 49 

LJK 

Lower Case Char 

Gen 25 19 

Micro-SCI 

A2 35T Disk Drive . . 479 329 
Microsoft 

16KRamCard 100 69 

Premium System [5] 695 489 

Softcard 345 219 

Personal Computer 

Applicard6MHz ... 595 449 
TG Products 

Joystick 60 45 

Selectaport 60 45 

Trackball 65 49 

Versa Computing 

Versawriter 

Graphics Tablet .... 299 249 
Videx 

Enhancerll 149 119 

Function Strip 79 65 

InverseCharacter 

Set 29 24 

Lower Case Chip ... 29 24 

Lower Case Chip 

(Rev0-6) 35 29 

Micromodem 

Firmware 29 24 

Soft Video Switch . 35 29 

Videoterm 

Switchplate 19 16 

Videoterm with 

Softswitch 375 239 



PRoqRAMiwiNq InternatjonaI 
(800)222-8811 

Inside California: 
(415)324-3730 



Circle 335 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 277 



Your CP/M & Hardware Source 



CP/M-80 



LIST SALE 
Adventure International 

Adventures 

1-12(ReqZ80) 129 97 

ATI 
Power for CP/M .... 75 54 

Anderson-Bell 
ABSTAT 359 

Artificial Intelligence 

Dental (PAS-3) 995 749 

Medical (PAS-3) ... 995 749 

Ashton-Tate 
Bottom Line 

Strategist 400 279 

dBASEII 700 398 

dBASE II w/User's 

Guide 729 419 

Aspen Software 

Grammatik 75 56 

Proofreader 50 38 

Balcones 
BOSS Fin. Acctg 
System 2495 1496 

Byrom Software 

BSTAM 200 149 

BSTMS 200 149 

Caxton 
Cardbox 245 177 

Commsoft 
Roots/M 195 142 

Computer Control 
FABS-BTree File 

Access 195 146 

Ultrasortll 195 146 

Computer development 
Image 495 356 

Comshare 

Planner Calc 99 74 

Target Application 

Guide 50 38 

ComboPak 125 94 

Condor 

Condon 295 189 

Condor3 650 398 

Designer Software 
Palantir 425 319 

Dictronics 
Random House 
Thesaurus 150 113 

Digital Research 
Access Manager ... 300 225 

CB80 500 395 

CBasic 150 94 

CISCobol 800 595 

Despool 50 38 

Display Manager ... 400 295 

MAC 90 75 

PascalMT+ 350 262 



Pascal MT+ with 

SPP 500 395 

PL/180 500 375 

SID 75 63 

SPP 200 150 

ZSID 100 88 

DJR Associates, Inc. 

FMS80 995 625 

FMS80-1 495 312 

FMS80-2 495 312 

Ecosolt 

Microstat 295 248 

Microstat3.0 395 320 

Epic 
Supervyz 150 94 

Faircom 
Micro B+ (CBasic) 260 211 
Micro B+ (Other) . 260 211 

Fox & Geller 

dGRAPH 295 195 

dUTIL 99 59 

Quickcode 295 195 

Quickscreen/ 

CBasic 149 125 

Quickscreen/ 

dBASEII 149 125 

Quickscreen/ 

FMS-80 149 125 

Quickscreen/ 

MBasiC 149 125 

FYl.lnc. 
Superfile 195 129 

Human Soft 
dBPIus 125 95 

Inlocom 

Deadline 60 43 

Starcross 50 38 

Suspended 50 38 

Zorkl 50 38 

Zorkll 50 38 

Zorklll 50 38 

ISM 
Mathemagic 100 72 

Ithaca Intersystems 

PascalBZ 450 375 

PascalZ 450 375 

PascalZ8tBZ 650 542 

Lexisott 
Spellbinder 495 281 

Mark of The Unicorn 

FinalWord 300 223 

Mince 175 139 

Metasoft 
Benchmark Mail 

List 250 184 

Benchmark 

Wordprocessor .... 500 367 



Micro Pro 

Calcstar 145 

Datastar 295 

Infostar 495 

Mailmerge 250 

Reportsrar 350 

Spellstar 250 

Supersort 250 

Word/Mail 695 

Word/Spell 695 

Word/Spell/Mail ... 845 

Wordmaster 150 

Wordstar 495 

Microsoft 

BASIC80 350 

BASIC Compiler ... 395 

COBOL80 750 

FORTRAN 80 500 

MACRO80 200 

n Lisp i. Star 200 

Multiplan 275 

M.Math/nSimp 250 

Sorting Facility 

(MSORT) 195 

TextEditor 120 

Microstul 
Crosstalk/ 

Smartmodem 195 

Northwest Analytical 

Statpak 495 

Oasis 

TheWordPlus 150 

Organic Software 

Datebook 295 

Milestone 295 

Peachtree 
Series 4 Pak 

(GL.AR.AP) 595 

•AP 600 

•AR 600 

•GL 600 

• Inventory 600 

Series8AP 750 

•AR 750 

•GL 750 

• Inventory 750 

• Payroll 750 

• Sales Inv 750 

Peachpak Series 9 . 500 

•Mailing List 375 

• Peachcalc 375 

• Peachtext 500 

• Proofreader 300 

•Telecom 375 

Series 40 Pak 

(GL.AR.AP)t 595 

•APt 400 



96 
195 
327 
165 
231 
165 
165 
426 
426 
558 

99 
327 

252 
296 
562 
360 
150 
156 
198 
194 

151 
94 



135 



369 



229 

299 



398 
398 
398 
398 
398 
515 
515 
515 
515 
515 
515 
345 
258 
258 
345 
206 
258 

398 
275 



•ARf 400 

•GLt 400 

Series 80 Pak 

(GL,AR.AP)t 595 

•APt 400 

•ARt 400 

• GLt 400 

• Inventoryt 400 

Pearl Soft 

Personal Pearl 295 

Quality 

GBS— DBAppI 

DevProg 650 

Select 

Select Word 

Processor 595 

Sensible 

Sensible Spellert .. 125 
Soltware Dimensions 

Accounting + AP .. 645 

•AR 645 

• GL 645 

• Inventory 645 



645 
645 
645 
645 



> Payroll 
•POE 
•POS 
•SOE 

Sorcim 

ACT65 175 

ACT68 175 

ACT69 175 

ACT80 175 

ACT86/88 175 

Pascal/m-80 395 

Pascal/m-86/88.... 495 

Supercalc 195 

Supercalc2 295 

Superspellguard ... 195 

Superwriter 295 

Trans 86 175 

Southwestern 

Z-Termt 100 

Z-Term 
Professional 

Supersolt 
Ada Compiler 

Analizall 

C Compiler 250 

DiskDoctor 100 

Dungeon Master ... 40 

Nemesis 45 

Scratchpad 295 

T Maker Co 
T/Maker III 275 

Woolf Software Systems 
Movelt 125 

t Apple. CP/M only 



300 
50 



275 
275 

398 
275 
275 
275 
275 

184 



356 

94 

398 
398 
398 
398 
398 
398 
398 
398 

126 

126 
126 
126 
126 
284 
356 
129 
179 
129 
185 
126 



150 109 



225 
38 

188 
75 
30 
34 

221 

215 



CP/M-86(8") 

Ashton-Tate LIST SALE 

dBASEII 700 398 

dBASE II w/User's 

Guide 729 419 

Digital Research 

Pascal MT+ 86 

w/SPP-86 800 600 

XLT86 150 132 

Woolf 

Movelt 150 99 



HARDWARE 

(not machine specific) 

Amdek LIST SALE 

300 

(12"Green) ....[10] 200 157 

300A 

(12"Amber) ...[10] 210 167 

Colorll (RGB) [10] 899 645 
Corvus Systems 

6MB Hard 

Disk [10)2295 1895 

11 MB Hard 

Disk [10J3295 2695 

20MB Hard 

Disk [10)4295 3495 

Daisywrlter 

Printer [10] 1395 1235 

Hayes 

Chronograph... [5] 249 199 

Smartmodem 

1200 [5] 699 509 

Smartmodem 

300 [5] 279 209 

NEC 

3530 

Spinwriter [10)2190 1735 

7710 

Spinwriter [10)3085 2295 

8023 Dot 

Matrix [10] 695 495 

Monitor 12" Green 

Hi. Res [10] 285 167 

Novation 

JCat 149 119 

Smart Cat 103 259 207 

Smart Cat 103/21 2. 595 476 



Orders must be PAID by JULY 31 to qualify 
for these special prices 



PRoqRAMiwiNq InternatIonaI 



TELEPHONE ORDERS 

Outside Calif.: (800) 222-8811 

Inside Calif.: (415) 324-3730 

Order lines are manned 6:30-6 Monday thru Friday and 9-5 
Saturday. Other lines are open 9-5 Monday thru Friday 



Technical Support 
Order Status 
Safes Manager 



(415)324-0311 
(415)324-0306 
(415)324-0305 



More CP/M', APPLE - , IBM PC - . UNIX", UCSD p- 
System " software, hardware, etc: call for quote. 



505 HAMILTON AVE. • Suite 301 
PALO ALTO, CA 94301 

(800)222-8811 

Inside California: 
(415)324-3730 



TERMS: All prices subject to change without notice and 
availability. Cashier's check MO bank transfer. Allow time 
for company or personal checks to clear. Prices reflect cash 
prepaid discount. VISA MASTERCARD COD POs -I- 3%. CA 
residents add sales tax. All sales final for games & special 
orders. 

RETURNS: Must have authorization number, obtained at 
415-324-0305. Unauthorized returns will be refused; dam- 
aged goods will be refused. All returns subject to 15% re- 
stocking fee. No return after 30 days. 

SHIPPING: S3 per Item for UPS surface ($6 for Blue Label) within 
Continental USA, except where shipping cost is specified in square 
brackets. UPS does not go to Canada, Alaska, APO's. FPO's, call tor 
ship charge or add 15%-we will refund/credit difference. 



278 BYTE July 1983 



Circle 336 on inquiry card. 



Circle 321 on inquiry card. 



particular key and then depress that 
key, the meter deflection should in- 
dicate a completed circuit. 

If the circuit is complete, you next 
check for shorts by depressing all 
other keys one at a time. Any move- 
ment of the needle indicates a short in 
the circuit. If this occurs, make sure 
you cut all unneeded PCs. Also look 
for melted insulation between two 
overlapping wires. Make any neces- 
sary corrections before moving on. 

After you are Satisfied 1 that the cir- 
cuits are correct, plug the cable into 
the keyboard connector and repeat all 
the tests. This double-checks your 
work on the keyboard and assures 
you that you built the connector 
cable correctly as well. 

Take a deep breath and exhale. It's 
time for the real test with the com- 
puter. Unplug everything and place a 
bath towel or other suitable padding 
on your work surface to prevent 
scratching the case. Be sure that you 
are not carrying a static charge. You 
aren't going to touch anything 
critical, but it pays to be careful. 

Turn your computer over and un- 
screw the seven screws in the case 
with a Phillips screwdriver. (This 
voids your warranty if you still have 
one.) Turn the computer over, being 
careful to catch the seven screws, and 
put them in a safe place until reas- 
sembly time. Lift off the top of the 
case and set it aside ."Lift the keyboard 
off the four posts on which it rests, 
and locate the short 16-conductor 
cable attached to 16 pins on the com- 
puter circuit board. Gently slide the 
female connector off the pins on the 
circuit board and set the keyboard 
aside. 

The pins on the new keyboard are 
numbered 1 to 16 from left to right as 
you face them. Gently slide the 
female connector of your new ribbon 
cable over the pins on the circuit 
board (photo 3c) and set the case top 
loosely back in place on the com- 
puter. 

Make certain that connectors 1 
through 16 of your cable match pins 1 
through 16 of the computer. Check 
your entire work area for shorts and 
hazards such as stray screwdrivers ly- 
ing in the wrong place. When you are 
sure that you have removed all 



The Bell 212 Modem for the 
S-100 Bus has Arrived 



PMMI & Racal Vadic joined 
forces to bring you the first Bell 
212A-compatible modem for the 
S-100 bus. The MM-212 is a 
top quality modem designed to 
meet all physical, electrical & 
timing requirements of the IEEE 
B9B/S-1DD specification. FCC 
registered for direct connection 
to the telephone line. 

UNBEATABLE FEATURES: 

• Bell 21 2A C1 20D baud) or Bell 1 D3 C45.5-3QD baud) modes 

• 1 2DD baud synchronous & asynchronous 

• Access to PMMI's 24 hour a day test center 

• Microprocessor based design • Full or half duplex 

• Auto answer and auto dial • Maskable interrupts 

• Five year limited warranty • Self test modes 

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, call or write for free brochure or send $10°° 
Crefundable w/purchase] for MM-212 Owner's Manual. 




<$F§^ 



DEALER & OEM 
OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE 



COMMUNICATIONS 

52D1 Leesburg Pike. Suite BD4 
Falls Church, VA E2041 
(7D31 379-9BBO 



ALL MODEMS ARE NOT CREATED EQUAL 




INTRODUCES: PC- VSAM 



TM 



TM 



• one of the most comprehensive and versatile I/O programs available with 
power and performance to match that of the IBM-PC.® 

• uses sophisticated and easy command language that allows flexible and 
efficient storage of information. 

• meets the challenge of today's complex system and application needs while 
saving time and money in development. 

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS: IBM-PC™ , DOS, 64K RAM, ONE DISK 
DRIVE-5V4", 80 COLUMN DISPLAY, OPTIONAL PRINTER 

INTRODUCTORY PRICE: $155.00 

(Offer good through Sept. 7, 2983) 
In order to enable us to market the most economically prices software we use 
functionally-inexpensive packaging™ . Thus, passing the savings on to you. 

PROFESSIONAL BUSINESS SPECIALISTS,™ INC. 

P.O. Box 026005 

Miami, Florida 33102-6005 

Call Collect (305) 545-7077 

For Information and Specifications. 

Method of Payment: Check, Money Order. 

Terms: All Handling and Shipping are included in Software price. Allow 2-4 weeks delivery. 
Trademark: IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines, Corp. 
PROFESSIONAL BUSINESS SPECIALISTS, FUNCTIONALLY-INEXPENSIVE PACKAGING, PC- 
VSAM, PBS are Trademarks Pending of PROFESSIONAL BUSINESS SPECIALISTS, INC. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 279 



Circle 138 on Inquiry card. 



MMFANTASTIC PRICES!!!! 
FROM DIGITAL DIMENSIONS 



OKIDATA 

ML-80.,80 COL„ 80 CPS $317 

ML-82A..80 COL, 120 CPS $395 

'ML-83A..136COL.120CPS $639 

•ML-84..PARALLEL, 136 COL., 200 CPS ....$969 
'ML-84..SERIAL, 136 COL., 200 CPS $1,083 

"ML-92..80 COL., 

160 CPS PARALLEL $509 

''ML-93..136 COL.. 

160 CPS PARALLEL $832 

SERIAL INTERFACE FOR ML92&ML93... $99 

PACEMARK2410..350CPS CALL 

PACEMARK 2350..SERIAL, 350 CPS CALL 

'Includes TRACTOR FEED 
"lnc.,OKIGRAPH ™ DOTADDRESSABLEGRAPHICS 

SEIKOSHA 
DOT MATRIX, PARALLEL 50 CPS PLUS 
GRAPHICS $269 

IDS 

PRISM 80..3.4K & 200 Sprint $1,036 

Inc. sheet feed, color & graphics $1,429 

PRISM 132..3.4K & 200 Sprint $1,195 

Inc. sheet feed, color & graphics $1,591 

MICROPRISM 480 $569 

STAR MICRONICS 
GEMINI-10..10O CPS, 2.3K BUFFER $329 
GEMINI-15 $519 

C. ITOH 

Prowriter..80 Col.. 120 CPS. Parallel $396 

Prowriler 2.80 Col , 120 CPS, Parallel $696 

Starwrlter F-10.40CPS $1,425 

Printmaster F-10 55 CPS $1,595 

SILVER-HEED 

EXP 550 Dally Wheal Printer Bl-Dlrectlonal. Bold Face. 

Superscript Subscript. 17 CPS (Shannon Text) 

Parallel S705 

MODEMS 

Hayes 300 Baud Smart Modem $219 

Hayes 1200 Baud Smart Modem $515 

DATEC 21 2A-300/1 200 bps $445 

21 2A-3O0/1 200 bps 

Inc. Auto Calling Unit $515 

RIXON PC-212A Modem Card 
For the IBM PC CALL 

MONITORS 

AMDEK Color I $309 

AMDEK Color II $609 

NEC JB1201 Green $169 

FOR THE IBM P.C. 
NEC Spinwriter 3550..33CPS $1 ,990 

Quadram Quadboard w/64K $320 

Quadram Quadboard W/128K $380 

Quadram Quadboard W/192K $430 

Quadram Quadboard w 256K $490 

E-Z COLOR BOARD 

For the Apple II or Apple II Plus. 

Includes demo software and 

E-Z COLOR SUPER EDITOR $199 

S-100 Systems $279 

TRS-80 $239 



DIGITAL DIMENSIONS 

190 Chapel Rd.. Manchester, CT 06040 

Info & Orders Call 203-649-3611 
Orders Only 1-800-243-5222 

COD Welcome Allow 2-3 Weeks For Checks MC VISA OK 
All Prices Include UPS Ground Freight In U S 




Figure 2: Keyboard case frame. Dimensions for the various pieces are provided in 
inches. Most pieces can probably be cut from scrap lumber. 



hazards, cross your fingers, plug the 
computer in, and turn it on. 

If the wrong letter appears when 
you press a key, or if two or more let- 
ters appear for one keystroke, you 
have a short or have missed cutting a 
trace on the printed circuit. The 
following program will assist you in 
your debugging efforts: 

1 A$ = INKEY$ : IF A$ = " " THEN 1 

2 A = ASC(A$) : PRINT A,A$ : GOTO 1 

This program shows you what 
code a particular key transmits even 
if the key does not normally print a 
character to the screen (such as the 
down arrow). You will be able to tell 
if a key that does not produce a 
character on the screen is actually 
transmitting a wrong character or 
sending nothing at all. 

When you complete your 
checkout, leave the cable in place, 
reinstall the old keyboard (to keep 
out dust and dirt), and put the case 
back together, allowing the ribbon 
cable to protrude through the case 
seam on the side next to the expan- 
sion port. Remember that the two 
short screws fit in the keyboard end 
of the case. 



Building the Keyboard Case 

Now that the keyboard is func- 
tional, you need a case to keep out 
dust, coffee, and stray fingers. This 
part of the project costs little or 
nothing if you have a few woodwork- 
ing scraps around the house. (I found 
all the materials for my case in my 
woodworking scrap bin and work- 
bench.) 

Cut two wedges of 2 by 4 scrap 
7 inches long, 3 A inch thick at one 
end, and 1 3 A inches thick at the other 
(see figure 2). The width of the 
wedges is the short dimension of the 2 
by 4. These wedges form the left and 
right frame of the case and provide 
the anchor points for the keyboard. 

Cut two pieces of 1- by 1-inch 
board 13 V* inches long. These are the 
stringers between the two wedges. 
Attach the wedges to the stringers at 
the front and rear with 2V2-inch, 
number 10, flathead wood screws and 
wood glue (see photo 4). Countersink 
the screw heads so that they can be 
covered by paneling. Use a chisel or 
router to countersink the keyboard- 
mounting brackets flush with the 
sloped faces of the two wedges (photo 
4b). 

Attach paneling to the bottom and 



280 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



incubation Compl 




A Third Generation is Born 




WrM 

m 




(Pictured above) 



A Z80 based microcomputer board with memory and I /0 functions 

• Fully complies with ieee 696 Standard 

• 4/6/8 MHZ Z80A/B/H* 

• Supports CP/M* PIUS 

• Operates as bus master/slave for multi-user, multi-processor architecture. 

• 64K on board memory, dual ported, parity checked 

• 2 serial ports, 1 full sasi port 

• All I/O drivers on board 

• Memory management 

• Full 24 bit address capability 

• 3-16 bit CTC's 










ExpandORAM IV— Random access memory board 
utilizing 64K or 256K NMOS RAM chips 

• Fully compiles with IEEE 696 Standard 

• 256K capacity with 64K chips 

• 1024K capacity with 256K chips 

• Error checking and correction (2 bit detection, 1 bit correction) 

• On board refresh 

• Supports both 8 and 16 bit data transfers 

• 24 bit addressing 

SD300— A new series of compact yet expandable S-100 
microcomputers. 

• Compact size approximately 4" x 14" x 17" 

• 6 Slot motherboard 

• Rugged metal enclosure 

• Supports up to 5 users 

OEM Version: Designed for ease of Integration and maximum flexibility 

• Z80 CPU 

• 256K RAM 

• Versafloppy n with free CP/M Plus™ 

DlSCless Version: An Ideal high performance system for disk Intensive 
applications. Eliminates disk wait states for spread sheets, spelling checkers, 
and network operation, utilizes SDSystems ramdisc and ROMDlsc modules. 






VFW-3: A single board controller for floppy and 
Winchester disk drives: 

• Fully compiles with ieee 696 Standard • Free copy of 
CP/M Plus™ included • Up to 4 floppies and three Win- 
chester drives may be controlled by VFW-3 • Data 
transfers to and from board under DMA or programm- 
ed I/O control • Supports 24 bit address space. 

CP/M Plus™:high performance single user 
operating system. 

• cp/m« 2.2. compatible— no modification! • when 
used with SDSystems 256K memory board speeds are 
upto7timesfasterthanCP/M® 2.2. • High perfor- 
mance file system • mp/m® n file password protec- 
tion • Time and date stamps on files • Support for 1 to 
16 banks of RAM • Support for 1 to 16 drives of up to 
512 MB each • Easy to use system utilities with HELP 
facility • Powerful batch facility • sophisticated pro- 
grammer utilities. 




RAM Disc 256: A solid state disk emulator that 
greatly Increases system performance by eliminating 
disk waits In disk Intensive applications. Excellent for 
spreadsheets, spelling checkers and software 
development. 

• 256K capacity • 1 mb total bus capacity • CP/ M® 2.2, 
plus ™ compatible • I /0 port addresses user selec- 
table • Storage locations addressed by on board 20 bit 
counter • On board refresh. 

ROMDISC 128: An eprom board that replaces a 
floppy disk drive for the purposes of booting CP/ M® 
and loading application programs. 

• Provides non volatile, permanent storage of pro- 
grams and data • Utilizes 2732 or 2764 eproms, (16 
max) • 128K capacity per board • 512K system capacity 

• use with SDSystems ramdisc to configure a stand 
alone or network discless system • CP/ M Plus™ 
available in eproms • Serial port provided. 



SOS 

asv 



CP/M* 2.2 and CP/M Plus™ are registered trademarkes of Digital Research, Inc. *Z80 product of Zilog Corp 

W CT E WJA C ! 10111 Miller Road • Dallas, Texas • (214) 340-03C 
A syntech Company 



Circle 362 on inquiry card. 



four sides of the case with paneling 
nails and glue. Next, cut a template 
out of paper to fit the top of the case 
and to just fit over the keys. Use this 
template to transfer the outline of the 
keys to a piece of paneling. Use a 
saber saw to cut the hole for the keys. 

Drive 1-inch finishing nails part- 
way into the locations for the hold- 
down screws for the keyboard. Cut 
the heads off the nails leaving sharp 
points. Fit the cover over the keys, 
position it correctly, and tap the 
paneling over the nails with a mallet 
or hammer. Remove the top, pull the 
nails with a pair of pliers, and drill 
the holes for screws. 

Cut a hole in the back panel for 
cable access and mount the female 
plug of the keyboard to the stringer 
with double-stick foam tape. Attach 
the keyboard cover. Turn the 
keyboard over and attach four rubber 
skids to the bottom of the case. 

Changing the Key Faces 

The final step is to give some of the 
keys a face-lift. For this you will need 
bottles of black, gray, and white 




(4a) 




(4b) 

Photo 4a and b: Final stages of construc- 
tion. The frame for the case in photo 4a is 
made from scrap lumber, then the key- 
board in photo 4b is mounted within; 
later, paneling may be added for ap- 
pearance's sake. 

model-airplane high-gloss enamel; 
medium and very fine artists brushes; 
and steady hands. Simply obliterate 
all the incorrect characters on the 



keyboard with black or gray paint as 
appropriate and then use a very fine 
tipped brush and white enamel to 
paint on the correct characters. 

Summary 

My total construction time, nights 
and weekends, amounted to six or 
seven days. It is probably a one- or 
two-day job for people who know 
what they are doing and can sit down 
and work straight through. 

Was it worth the time and effort to 
install a new keyboard? Definitely. 
We now have a keyboard with a 
more comfortable touch for word 
processing, as well as three additional 
keys with five usable control 
characters. Plus, we enjoy the advan- 
tages of a numeric keypad when we 
enter data in our check register and 
statistical programs.! 

About the Author 

David M. Dacus, (1670 Valencia, Las 
Cruces, NM 88001) is an operations research 
analyst for the U.S. Army Training and Doc- 
trine Command Systems Analysis Activity 
(TRASANA) at White Sands Missile Range, 
New Mexico. 




ALF COPY SERVICE 

1 31 5F Nelson Street Denver, CO 8021 5 (303) 234-0871 

FAST • RELIABLE • LOW COST 




you produce software, ALF's disk copying service is the quick, 
convenient answer to your duplication needs. Most orders are shipped in 
less than a week. Every disk we copy is verified bit by bit and guaranteed 
100% flawless. 

any soft-sectored mini format. Standard 

opy proof, double-boot, and fast load), 

NEC PCS^lDsborne, TRS-80 I and 

Copy pre 



We can copy virtually 
formats: Apple II (including 
Apple III, Atari, IBM PC, Ka 
Zenith Z-90 and Z-100, ai 
formats. 

Our "no frills" pricing 





Hon is available for most 



e to buy extras you don't 



ins you don't 
need— set-up charges staifa «S10, and copying charges are 30$ to 40<t per 
side. (See blank disk prices at right. Minimum: 50 copies.) Quantity dis- 
counts available for large ordersffc*^^^^^ 

Of course, we have the frills too: label application, 3-hole vinyl pages, 
printing of labels and sleeves, shrink packaging, heat sealing, and much 
more. We can put your product in a customized package— vinyl folder or 
IBM-style binder/slip case— for a low price in small or large quantities. 

ALF is one of the oldest and; most trusted names in the duplication 
business. ALF designs and manufactures copying machines that other 
copying services and software publishers around the world rely on every 
day. Our complete understanding of duplication technology assures you 
of the finest reproduction available. 

We're eager to solve your duplication and packaging problems— 
whether you want one service or a total package. Give us a call 
today! 



BLANK DISKS 

ALF buys large quantities of 
disks for our disk copying service— 
and we can pass our savings on to 
you. If you're buying hundreds of 
disks, ALF is your ideal source for 
top quality disks at a reasonable 
price. We buy our disks in bulk 
packages, avoiding the expense of 
fancy printing and labeling. 

The disks listed below are 5 1/4", 
single sided, double density (except 
as noted), unlabeled, with hub re- 
inforcement ring. Other disks are 
available, call for details. 



3M 

MEMOREX 
NASHUA 
NASHUA 

(single density) 

VERBATIM 



$165 per 100 
$165 per 100 
$160 per 100 
$140 per 100 

$190 per 100 



Without sleeves: add $2.50 
shipping per 100. 

With tyvek sleeves: add $7 plus 
$2.50 shipping per 100. 

Packed in boxes of 10 with tyvek 
sleeves: add $15 plus $3.00 
shipping per 100. 



282 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Now your computer can say anything and say it well. 
Introducing the Votrax Personal Speech System. 






Quite articulate. 



Friendly to humans. 



The unlimited vocabulary Votrax 
Personal Speech System is the most 
sophisticated, low cost voice synthe- 
sizer available today. Its highly 
articulate text-to-speech translator lets 
your computer properly pronounce 
conversational words at least 95% 
of the time. 

^For all those 
unusual words and 



44 



Designed to look like a printer to 
your computer, the Votrax PS System 
is extremely easy to use. It can be used 
in tandem with your printer without an 
additional interface card. Both serial 
and parallel ports come standard, 
allowing you to connect the Votrax PS 
System to virtually any computer. 
Speech, music and sound effects are 

only a PRINT statement away. 



proper names, you 
can define an excep- 
tion word table and 
store your own translations. 
And remember, the entirely 
self-contained Votrax PS System 
gets your computer talking 
without using any valuable 
computer memory. 

Built-in versatility. 



Much more than just a voice output 
device, the Votrax PS System lets 
you mix either speech and sound ef- 
fects or speech and music. A pro- 
grammable master clock and 255 
programmable frequencies give you 
unmatched control of speech and 
sound effects. 

The Votrax PS System offers user 
expandable ROM for custom appli- 
cations, user downloadable software 
capability and sound effects 
subroutines for easy user program- 
ming. Its programmable speech rate 
provides more natural rhythm, while 
16 programmable amplitude levels 
give you greater control of word 
emphasis. 

Actual size: 12.2" x 4. 5" x 2.6" 




What to say after "Hello". 

Businesses will appreciate spoken 
data transmission, narration of graphic 
displays and unmanned, oral product 
demonstrations. Spoken verification of 
data input will make computers much 
easier for the blind to use. School chil-' 
dren can receive comprehensive 




The Votrax Personal Speech System 

is covered by a limited warranty. 

Write Votrax for a free copy. 

500 Stephenson Highway, Troy, MI 4808+ 



computer instruction with voice text- 
books as well as spoken drills and 
testing. And then, late at night, you can 
make those adventure games explode. 

A quick list. 

n Highly articulate Votrax text-to- 
speech translator. 

255 programmable frequencies for 
speech/sound effects. 

a 16 amplitude levels. 

□ Simultaneous speech and sound effects 
or speech and music. 

D 8 octave, 3 note music synthesis. 

□ Serial and parallel interface standard. 
□ User programmable master clock. 

□ User defined exception 
word table. 

□ User programmable speech 
rate, amplitude and inflection. 
□ User expandable ROM 

for custom applications. 

□ User downloadable 
software capability. 
D 3,500 character 
input buffer: sub- 
divisible for a printer 
buffer. 

□ Internal speaker and external 
speaker jack. 

□ Real time clock and 
8 user defined alarms. 

□ Oral power up and error prompting. 

□ X-on/X-off and RTS-CTS handshaking. 

□ Programmable Baud settings (75-9600). 

□ Interrupt driven Z-80 microprocessor. 

□ Parallel /Serial interconnect modes. 

Q Proper number string translation: the 
number " 1 54" is pronounced "one 
hundred fifty four". 

To order, see your local computer 
retailer or call toll-free 

1-800-521-1350 

Michigan residents, please call 
(313)588-0341. MasterCard, VISA or 
personal check accepted. The price is 
$395 plus $4 for delivery. Educational 
discount available. Add sales tax in 
Michigan and California. 

©VOTRAX 1982 




Circle 436 on inquiry card 




CALL "THE COMPUTER-LINE" In Colorado. 

"Committed to bringing computers within the reach of all Americans"™ 

The Computer-Line believes that it is important to be competitive by offering low prices, however, we regard service as the most important aspect of a mail-order organiza- 
tion All our lines are available so that you, the customer, are able to talk to fully qualified computer specialists trained to answer all your questions pertaining to our line of 
microcomputers We are renowned for our excellent after-sales support and our promptness for delivery Peace of mind and excellence in service is our pledge to all our 



customers 



products for the IBM® PERSONAL COMPUTER 



The Ultimate Peripheral for your IBM PC 
MONTE CARLO™ CARD 

Five Functions — Memory/Serial/Parallel/Clock/Joystick 

• Up to 1 Megabyte Expandable Memory 

• One IBM Compatible Centronics Parallel Port 

• One IBM Compatible Asynchronous Communication Port 

• Clock/Calendar (Battery-backed) with Alarm 

• Dual Port Joystick Interlace 

• Future Upgrade Options: Direct Connect Modem 

SCALL 

AND The Sensational 
l-C — MAGIC 

Prom Chip 
Programmable Graphics Screen Dump 

Print Spooling up to 64K 

Terminal Emulation SCALL 



Hard Disk System for the 
IBM ® Personal Computer 

The Davong System's Hard Disk Drive fits conveni- 
ently inside or outside of the second floppy disk drive 
location of the IBM" Personal Computer chassis, pro- 
viding more than 30 times the capacity of a floppy 
diskette, plus greater speed & reliability. 

Available for internal or external installation Please 
specify. 




SOFTWARE 




Ashton-Tate: 

D Base II $475.00 

Continental: 

Home Accountant Plus $99.00 

The Business Manager" 

A complete accounting/word 
processing/spread sheet/hard disk 
system for your IBM PC SCALL 



MicroPro 

Wordstar 
Mailmerge 



Sorcim Software: 

Supercalc $199.00 

Superwriter $299.00 

Spellguard $149.00 

Lifetree Systems: 
Volkswriter $149.00 

Visicorp: 

256K Visicalc $185.00 

Visidex $185.00 



$329.00 
$159.00 



Peachtree 

Peachpak 



SCALL 



QUADRAM CORPORATION 

Quadboard: The memory board for the IBM featuring: 

• Fully Expandable from 64K - 256K 

• Parallel Port 

• Asynchronous (RS232) Serial Port 

• Clock/Calendar 

• RAM Disk Drive SCALL 

Microfazer: 

• Buffering from 8K - 64K (4 - 32 pages of text) 

• Printer & Computer Independent 

• Parallel/Parallel; Parallel/Serial. Serial/Serial available 

• Compute while you print! SCALL 



Peripherals for all Computers 



PRINTERS 




TEC / C-ITOH Printers 




Prownter 1 Parallel. 


$379°° 


Prownter 1 Parallel/Serial 


$499™ 


Prownter II Parallel . 


$649™ 


Prownter II Parallel/Serial 


$699°° 


F10 Printmaster 55 CPS 


SCALL 


Okidata 


Microline 92: 160 CPS bidirectional with 40 CPS 


correspondence 80 column 


$575°° 


Microline 93: 160 CPS bidirectional with 40 CPS 


correspondence 132 column 


$995°° 


Pacemark 2350: 350 CPS bidirectional/2 color 




printing/136 column 




Parallel 


$2195°° 


Serial 


$2295°° 


Pacemark 2410: 350 CPS bidirectional/2 color 




pnnting/85 CPS correspondence 




Parallel .. 


$2495°° 


Serial 


$2595°° 


ICALL FOR PRICES ON ALL OKIDATA PRINTERSI 


Star Mlcronics 




Gemmi 10 & 15 Price is Too Low To Publishl 


IDS Prism 




132 Color 


$1495°° 


Smith Corona 




TP-I Parallel or Serial 


$569°° 


Call for prices on Epson's New FX Series 






F10 Starwriter Letter Quality 

40 CPS Printer. Diablo Standard Daisywheel 



S1195 m 



DC. Hayos: M0DEMS 




Micromodem II (Apple) 


$259™ 


Smartmodem 300 Baud 


$209™ 


Smaitmodem 1200 Baud 


$525°° 


Novation: 




J-Cat RS232 Direct Connect 


$119™ 


Cat 


$149™ 


Smart Cat 1200 Baud 


$455°° 


Appiecat II (Apple) 


$289°° 


Smartcom II 


$ 85™ 


U.S. Robotics: 


2 Year Warranty 




D.C. Hayes Smart Modem compatible 




300 Baud 


$179°° 


1200 Baud 


$479°° 



Monitors 

Amdek Color I $299™ 

Color II $499™ 

300G Green., S145°° 

300A Amber $159°° 

310G Green $179™ 

31 OA Amber $179°° 

BMC 15MHZ Green $85°° 

20MHZ Green $149°° 

NEC 1201 Green $159™ 

1212 Color Composite ... $299°° 

1203 RGB Hi-Res Color $599°° 

Zenith zvM-121 ismhz $109™ 

Taxan Amber $145™ 

DISKETTES 

Kangaroo: 

The disks with the jump' on the competition 

Outstanding value with library case and a 

ten year warranty 

5%" SS DD (Box of 10) $19.95 

5V4" DS DD (Box of 10) $28.95 

*0ysan — outstandingly low price 

5Vi" SS DD (Box of 10 $31' s 

5%" DS/DD (Box of 10) S39 85 

Verbatim 

5V SS/DD (Box of 10) . $23 gs 

S'A" DS/DD (Box of 10) $43° s 

Elephant Diskettes 

5V SS/DD (Box of 10) $22° s 

5V DS/DD (Box of 10) . .. . S29" 5 



^L ^f^k "^^. ^^. "^^. '^•x '•■«. '•^ '"■^. ^M ALL BRANDS ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS IW ^BW ~^^. ■Wk '^k. ^ilV "^k ^IW "'•J 





Apple He® 

Provides these 
standard features 

• Typewriter-style, full 
ASCII Keyboard, 
upper and lowercase 
and auto-repeat feature 

• 6502A microprocessor 
(8-bit CPU) 

• 64K bytes RAM 
memory 

• 16K bytes ROM. which 
includes built-in Apple- 
soft BASIC language 



Dolor graphics and sound capabilities 
Seven I O expansion slots 
3ack panel designed for quick connect 
disconnect, using D-style connectors 



SCALL 



>ersonal 
Computer 

eatures 
64K Memory 
2 Tandon TM- 100-2 
320K Byte Drives 
1 floppy disk 

controller 
1 color graphics card 
ilimLine drives and hard disk drives 
:onfigurations are available upon request 

Call for pricing on all IBM' Systems. 




ZENITH ZIOO COMPUTERS 

Z1 10-22 (Low Profile) $3099 0t 
Z120-22 (All in one) $3 1 75 0c 



* TANDON * 

$ DRIVE * 

* Special -x 
Double Side/ 

Double Density 
320K Bytes 
ol Storage. 
TM-100-2 
$24500 




Special * 

* PRINCETON * 
♦GRAPHICS * 

* SYSTEMS * 

• 690 Dots Hor. 

• 16 Colors 

• Non-Glare Screen 

• Color at its finest 
»-»»» SCALL 



WORD PROCESSING SPECIALS 

On Line Screenwriter S85 Pro $149 
Silicon Valley Word Handler $119 



NOW CARRYING: 

PANASONIC JR-200 

Personal computer 

Extremely Versatile $299™ 

Commodore 64 $379°° 



See the NEC APC 

At Our Retail Stores 




Columbia Data Products 
Personal Computer 




Featuring 

• IBM PC Compatibility 
. 16-Bit 8088 Processor 

• 8 Expansion Slots 

• Two RS232 Serial Ports 

• Centronics Printer Port 

• Double Density Floppy Disk Controller 
. 128K RAM Standard Memory 

CALL FOR PRICING AND INFORMATION ON THE 
EXTENSIVE SOFTWARE STANDARD WITH THE COMPUTER! 



Franklin Ace 1000 

Offers. 

• 64K Memory 

• 40 column upper- lower case display 

• Apple lie compatibility 

• more space between expansion slols and 
internal fan aid cooling SCALL 

Call for prices on Franklin Ace 1200! 



Products for the 
APPLE COMPUTER 




We are smashing 
the prices on 

Apple Compatible 
Disk Drivesl 



FOURTH DIMENSION Drives S225™ 

FOURTH DIMENSION Drive with Controller $31 5 00 

We also carry: Rana Elite I, II, III SCALL 



MBI APPLETIME CARD 

Works with DB Master and Visidex Mountain Computer mode 

Basic and pascal operation complete with datebook software S 79 

MBI VIP CARD 

Dual Port Parallel/Serial Graphics Card $119°° 

Use ASCII Express The Professional 4 to simultaneously transfer data 
from modem to printer using the VIP Card 



ASCII EXPRESS (The Professional! 



$99°' 



Computer-Line is NOW OPEN Mon . Fri 7 a m t0 8 p m 
7 Days a Week! Sat.-Sun. 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. 

Product Information & Order Lines: <Mouma " 1 s,andara T,me| 



APPLE SOFTWARE 
Continental: 

The Home Accountant $ 54™ 

Silicon Valley Systems: 

Word Handler $119™ 

List Handler $ 65™ 

Stoneware: 

DB Master S159 00 

DB Utility 1,2, 3 $69°° ea 

Visicorp: 

Visicalc3 3 $185™ 

Visifiles $185™ 

Visidex $185™ 

Visitrend.'Plot $229™ 



RAM CARDS 

Microsoft 16K 
CP/M FOR APPLE 

Microsoft 280 Card 
Advanced Logic 

Kensington System Saver 
T&G: 

Joysticks 
Select A Port 
Game Paddles 
Kraft 
Joysticks. 
Game Paddles 

80 Column Cards 

Videx with Softswitch 



$79" 

$269°° 
SCALL 

$69™ 

$44™ 
$44™ 

J2Q00 

$49™ 
$33™ 

$279™ 



For 24-Hour/7 Days a Week Ordering & Product Information, 

Call "Info-Line ™", our Computer Modem line, 

1-303-279-4218. 



Operates at 300 Baud, Full Duplex 




We have leasing terms available 
on all our equipment. 



Write or Call for Our Comprehensive Catalog. 

Call "THE COMPUTER-LINE" 

Product Information & Order Lines: (303) 279-2848 or (800) 525-7877 " C ompt!°eVLine' U stores 

Customer Service & Order Inquiry Line: (303) 278-8321 opening throughout the U.S. 

ORDER DEPARTMENT: COMPUTER-LINE, Inc. • 1019 8th Street • Golden. CO 80401 yVrite for our Franchise Package. 

COMPUTER-LINE of Denver • 1136 So Colorado Blvd. • Denver. CO 80222 



Circle 104 on inquiry care 



BYTE West Coast 



Improving the User Interface 
at Digital Research 

by Phil Lemmons and 
Barbara Robertson 

"We were very open about it for a while, " Gordon Eubanks says, speaking about an iconic user-interface project that 
is now top secret at Digital Research Inc. "In fact, one version of the interface was shown on a national television pro- 
gram in 1982 — fortunately, no one seems to have watched it. " But opening its research and development project to 
visitors did cause Digital Research some confusion. Different visitors at different times saw different versions of an 
evolving project. Those visitors, OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) and others, went away with different 
expectations of the project. And once conflicting accounts started to circulate, confusion developed about the real 
nature of the project. Digital Research finally decided to cloak the project in the darkest secrecy until the time came to 
announce a product. Even the code name of the project is under wraps today. 

Recently a different and perhaps more serious kind of confusion has become apparent: the mistaken view that Digital 
Research is not making efforts to improve user interfaces for software products because the company fails to see the 
need. BYTE West Coast Editors Phil Lemmons and Barbara Robertson visited Digital Research headquarters in Pacific 
Grove, California, to meet with Eubanks, vice-president of the company's Commercial Systems Division. What follows 
is Eubanks's discussion of the work DRI is doing on user interfaces. 

Digital Research's efforts to im- 
prove the user interface in software 
involve three broad areas. First, his- 
torically, there's the "A>" approach, 
the programmer's interface. Program- 
mers don't really have much trouble 
with that. When CP/M was devel- 
oped, minicomputer operators and 
programmers were the predominant 
users of computers. To the people 
writing software, that A> interface 
was totally familiar, so it was natural 
that when CP/M and other systems 
were developed, that interface was 
used. 

If we'd done something like Apple's 
Lisa then, people not only would 
have thought it was strange but prob- 
ably wouldn't have liked it. It's more 
verbose, in a sense, and it would have 
slowed programmers down. 

We will not totally abandon the 
programmer's interface. We will con- 
About the Authors 

Phil Lemmons and Barbara Robertson can be 
reached at BYTE/ McGraw-Hill, 4th Floor, 425 
Battery St., San Francisco, CA 94111. 




Gordon Eubanks of Digital Research Inc. 



286 July 1983 © BYTE Publication. Inc 



Modem, 
schmodem. 



If you're thinking about getting a 
modem, you're thinking about getting 
information. 

Dow Jones. THE SOURCE™ 
CompuServe™ You want to access a 
computerized data base, and you think 
you need a computer to do it. 

Wrong. 

What you really need is a simple, 
economical way to get at the answers 
in the computers. But by the time you've 
bought a modem, software and the 
right connections for your personal 
computer, you've spent a fair amount 
of money on a fairly awkward arrange- 
ment. On the other hand, you're 2/3 
of the way to the price of a better idea. 
Give yourself a break. 

Get Scanset XL,™ the Personal 
Information Terminal. 

For a few more dollars, you'll get 
a lot more utility. At $895, Scanset XL 
takes the tedium out of passwords 
and answerbacks, and it will even speed 
you directly through to frequently- 
used files. ^^^m 

But best of all, _^a^l 
it leaves your 



personal computer free to compute. 

Scanset XL is as easy to use as 
an autodialer. Because in addition to 
a modem, there's a 36-number pro- 
grammable autodialer built right in. So 
instead of the 30 or so keystrokes it 
can take to access a data base, you press 
one button. Scanset XL takes care 
of the rest. 

And once you're on-line, Scanset 
XL lets you save information directly 
to your personal computer or printer. 
No need to waste valuable access 
time for data manipulation. Who 
knows? With the money you save, you 
may decide to explore some of the 
other 1200 available data bases. 

Or, use Scanset XL for simul- 
taneous voice and data communica- 
tions. It's an extraordinary new way 
to exchange verbal and visual ideas 
when the facts, alone, don't speak 
for themselves. 



At $895, Scanset XL comes with 
the telephone built right in. But at 
$649, you also have the option of a 
phoneless Scanset™ Whichever you 
choose, both models come complete 
with valuable subscription offers to 
Dow Jones News/Retrieval,® THE 
SOURCE, and the Comp*U*Store™ 
discount buying service. So you can 
start getting information moments after 
you get your Scanset out of the box. 

Find out how simple it can be to 
get answers from computers. Call us 
at the toll-free number below, and we'll 
send you what you need to know. 

The whole schmear. 

1-(800) 228-2028 EXT. 61 

SCANSET 

THE PERSONAL INFORMATION TERMINAL FROM TYMSHARE 

TYMSHARE, INC. 

20705 VALLEY GREEN DRIVE 
CUPERTINO CA 95014 

Circle 424 on inquiry card. 



Scanset and Scanset XL are trademarks of 
Tymshare, Inc. 

SOURCE is a mark of Source Telecom- 
puting Corporation, a subsidiary of The 
Readers Digest Association, Inc. 
Dow Jones News/Retrieval is a trademark 
of Dow Jones & Company. Inc. 
CompuServe is a trademark of 
CompuServe, Inc. 
Comp*U*Store is a trademark of 
Comp-U-Card of America, Inc. 





tinue to improve it. But there are two 
other areas that are becoming impor- 
tant now — the bit-mapped approach 
and the character I/O (input/ output) 
approach. In the character I/O ap- 
proach, you use the screen as a full 
screen, but you put only characters 
on it. You use highlighting and blink- 
ing and all the features of a typical 
video display, but you don't use 
graphics in the bit-mapped form. 

Apple's Lisa and Visicorp's Visi On 
come under the bit-mapped ap- 
proach. Digital Research is active in 
all three categories: the programmer's 
interface, the character I/O ap- 
proach, and the bit-mapped I/O ap- 
proach. 

The advantage of the bit-mapped 
approach is that you can get optimum 
resolution and do very symbolic 
things like getting a trash can to sym- 
bolize dumping a file. However, if we 
have a bit-mapped screen with a 
bunch of windows and we're running 
different applications concurrently, 
it's not clear that the 8086 has enough 
power to update the screen in each 



window concurrently. It's my under- 
standing that Visi On has all the 
hooks for concurrency built into it, 
but they're not implemented in the 
8086 version because of that pro- 
cessor's inability to support those 
windows and concurrent processes at 
sufficient speed. 

On the other hand, if we use char- 
acter I/O rather than bit-mapped 
screens, there's no question we can 
swap screens out with an 8086 while 
running different programs concur- 
rently. We've demonstrated that. The 
advantage of the character I/O ap- 
proach is that you can get a lot of 
functionality and ease of use and still 
run the cheaper hardware and get 
good performance. So right now 
we're working predominantly on 
character I/O. 

It's not common knowledge, but 
we're working very closely with Visi- 
corp and selected OEMs (original 
equipment manufacturers) in the bit- 
mapped area to be sure that Visi On 
works correctly. Digital Research will 
help OEMs adapt Visi On to CP/M. 



CARTRIDGE RIBBONS FOR 



APPLE PRINTERS 

NEC 8023A 

C. ITOH PROWRITER 

$q 95 $107 "6 

J. EA I VI ■ 00. 



LABEL 
SPECIAL 

$0 99 

■—■ /k 

(5K MIN) 
ACROSS 3 k IS 16 CONTINUOUS LABELS I 



CARTRIDGE RIBBONS FOR 

EPSON 
|MX-80MX-10< 



IHJAl SPOOL RIBBONS FOM 

OKIDATA 
PRINTERS 



80, 82, 83 
92,93 



s 2 77 s 2° 9 
s 5." s 6^.. 



MAXELL 
DISKETTES 

5 .. SINGLE SIDE 

DUAL DENSITY 

MD 1 



$ 29. 



INNOVATIVE 
CONCEPTS 

FLIP'N'FILE 

DISC STORAGE BOX 
HOLDS UP TO 60 DISKETTES 



i 24. 95 „ s 29. 95 . 



COMPLETE LINE OF OTHER RIBBONS AVAILABLE. PLEASE CALL 

ALL ABOVE PRICES INCLUDE SHIPPING 

Check-Mate 



51 DIAUTO DR. A'"9P PO. BOX 103 

RANDOLPH, MA 02368 

TOLL FREE 800-343-7706 IN MASS 617-963-7694 

WE ACCEPT MASTER CARD & VISA 

MASS RESIDENTS ADD 5% SALES TAX 

PHONES OPEN 9AM-7PM EASTERN TIME 



In fact, DRI will help with the writing 
of Visihost for a particular machine. 
We also have our own projects in 
the area of visual user interfaces, but 
that's all I can say about that for now. 
We're experimenting. We're trying to 
solve different problems of the user 
interface because we want to give the 
operating system an integrated look. 

Operating System Markets 

Look at how our operating system 
strategy is set up for the 8080 family 
and the 8086 family. The single user 
has a single-tasking or multiple-task- 
ing operating system; larger, multi- 
user systems are achieved with multi- 
ple tasking on one central processor 
or networking on multiple central 
processors. 

I've categorized the different oper- 
ating systems by market segments. In 
the single-user, single-tasking seg- 
ment, we have CP/M Plus for 8080s 
and CP/M-86 for the 8086 family. In 
the single-user, multitasking segment, 
we have MP/M II for 8080s and Con- 
current CP/M for the 8086 family. 
For the multiuser, multitasking seg- 
ment, we have MP/M II for 8080s 
and MP/M-86 for the 8086 family. In 
the multiuser, local-area network seg- 
ment, we have CP/Net and CP/ 
Net-86. Digital Research's strategy is 
to interface these operating systems 
through the user interface. 

The segment that includes multi- 
user, multitasking systems is the tra- 
ditional minicomputer market be- 
cause minicomputers traditionally 
work in those environments. The seg- 
ment that includes single-user sys- 
tems, whether single- or multitasking, 
is the professional and small-business 
market. And the third segment is the 
local-area network. 

We look at our competitors, MS- 
DOS and Xenix, and see them posi- 
tioned in an area that really doesn't 
hit the marketplace. Microsoft is try- 
ing to stretch from MS-DOS, a single- 
user, single-tasking system, to Xenix, 
a multiuser, multitasking system, 
which is a totally different segment of 
the market. In other words, while it's 
technically good to say you'll migrate 
from MS-DOS to Xenix, that doesn't 
make sense from the marketing side. 
One of the principles of marketing is 



288 July 1983 © BYTE Publication* Inc 



Circle 68 on Inquiry card. 



i:n:iv:u:ii:ii^ 



MEANS BUSINESS 







Designed with your office in mind. 

The new second-generation PRINTER 930 is quiet, 
fast and versatile. From word processing at 100 cps 
to data processing at 200 cps, plus graphics, the 
930 does it all. The perfect printer for today's office. 

Word Processing with Added Performance 

• Dual Speeds: 200 cps for drafts, memos, reports, 

up to 100 cps for letters, presentations. 

• Single Pass: Complete characters in one pass for 

higher throughput. 

• Near-Letter Quality: A staggered 18-wire print 

head produces it. 

• Resident Fonts for Near Letter Quality and Data 

Processing plus three more optionally. 

• 10, 12, 13.3 16.7 Pitches plus double widths. And 

proportional spacing. 

• Friction and Tractor Feed: Handles sheets and 

4-part forms. 

• Integrated Software Compatibility: Diablo 

emulation for plug and play. 

Data Processing with Flexibility. 

• Fast: 200 cps makes short work out of data. 

• Multilingual: 96 ASCII characters, 8 standard 

languages. 

• 16" Paper Width: up to 227 columns for largest 

spread sheets. 

Graphics with Versatility. 

• Dot addressable: and raster scan plus up to 

19,200 dots/sec. speed. 

• Dual densities: 144x144 for fine detail, 

72x72 for speed. 



Easy To Uve With. 

• Office-quiet: less than 60 dBA. • Cartridge 
ribbons: quick-n-clean. • Small foot print: 
typewriter size. • Front controls and indicators. 

• Serial and Parallel interfaces standard. 

• Self-testing. • Bidirectional, logic-seeking 
design. • Versatile paper handling. • Multi-voltage 
power supply. * Color styled for offices. 




The PRINTER Printer Line Grows. The new 930 

model joins the 910 and 920 models to present 
printers suitable for a wide variety of applications in 
offices, laboratories, Data Processing rooms and 
factories the world over. 

The 930 means business— for complete 
information see your authorized sales 
representative. 

PRINTER, Inc., Benton Harbor, Mich. 49022 
616/925-3200 

[g[?fbiM& 

LJ Best Thing Next To Your Computer 

Circle 325 on Inquiry card. 




to look at the market segments you're 
in and then try to understand how 
your products fit in other segments. 
Well, moving Xenix into other seg- 
ments doesn't make sense. It doesn't 
work in real time, it doesn't work on 
floppy disks right now, and it doesn't 
have file protection — not that you 
couldn't fix all these things. 

In addition, I claim that people 
move from the single-user systems in- 
to networking rather than into the 
classic multiuser area. I see multiuser 



local-area networks of multitasking 
single-user systems developing rather 
than systems of many users on a 
single central processing unit. With 
this in mind, when we look at where 
we really think the appropriate prod- 
ucts are, we think that CP/M Plus is 
the cornerstone product on the 8-bit. 
We don't think that the MP/M, 8-bit 
multiuser system is the predominant 
choice for the majority of users. We 
think that single-user single-tasking in 
the 8-bit world and single-user multi- 



DECADES OF SERVICE 



Washington Computer Services 



97 Spring Street 
New York, New York 10012 
TO ORDER: CALL OUR TOLL-FREE NUMBER: (800)221-5416 
In NY. State and for technical information: (212) 226-2121 

HOURS: 9:30 AM-5:30 PM (EST) Monday-Friday 



an affiliate of 



/// WASHINGTON >V) est1912 

™ ELECTRIC COWWY "' "*■ '* li 



CUSTOM COMPUTER ROOM WIRING SINCE 1960 



TELEX: 12-5606 CABLE: VttSHCOMP NYK 



FOLLY CONFIGURED BUSINESS SYSTEMS 

The following are some examples ot the fully assembled and tested business and 
scientific computer systems which we offer 

~> The Premier Mulli-User Computer System CALL 

) 8000 SX. multi-processor, turbo DOS FOR 

WTfHNATiohiAi CPM 2 2 FULL 2 YEAH WRRANTY' CONFIGURATION 

5000 IS. S-100 desk top mainframe 
8000 S up to 16 user 

3270 Software Available 

On-Site Service Contracts Available 



Where Do You Turn To Solve Your Computer Puzzle? 



SEC 



APC 




f^&MM T\ 



8086. 16 bit processor; Two 8" 
DSDD disk drives; 128K RAM (to 
640K): green or RGB color screen. 

PERFECT FOR: 
•Word Processing 

• CAD/CAM graphics 
(1024x1024 resolution) 

• DataBase Management 
•Accounting 




TURN TO US! 

We'll show you 

the easiest way 

to put the 

pieces together. 



• Chang Lab's Microplan «IBM emulations *CP/M-86. 
MSD0S, UCSD P. 



Matched. Compatible. Proven- 
Use Someone Else's Engineering to Supplement Yours. 

SOFTWARE 

Over 2000 business scientific, professional applications & educational packages are 
available Call with your requirements lor our advice or a quotation . We feature DBase 
II & Fox 8, Getter. 
8" DISK DRIVE SALE NOW! 

8 SHUGARTSA801P, $385 8 SHUGART '.A851R $540 2 tor $1025 

0UME DATATRACK 8 or MITSUBISHI SSSO 2 lor S1050 

Enclosure, power supply tor 2 8" drives A 4 T S350 

MORROW DISCUS 2D I CP/M- MICROSOFT BASIC. C0NT. S950 



NEC on N V.S. Contract CP-07220 



ALSO PC-8800 Persona/ Computer 

CDCAM NEW 0X-10 Micro with 
UrOUIN VALD0CS software S2995. 

[L^j-^ 68000 16 bit multi-user, S-100 UNIX V 7 SCALL 

^tSrvfliTER 8086 16 ""' ,28K RAM ' S '™ GaZe " e 

fo^l ALTOS MORROW 

NorrhStai*' 



AMPEX 
ADDS 

ANN ARBOR 
VISUAL 



(CALL 
QUME 
IBM 3101 

DIGITAL EQUIP. CORP. 
HAZELTINE 



(aliform. 
Compulti 

Syttenu 



VISTA 

TERMINALS 

TELETYPE 
TELEVIDE0 
LEAR SIEGLER 

PRINTERS 

r"r^f"* Teletype 40. 300 LPM-typerwnter quality. RS-232 

JBfc interlace This quality printer is available in many 

configuratiuns including torms access. quietized case, etc 

Teletype 43 



Irom Only 
S3200 



6 » 16 BIT BOARDS 
S SYSTEMS 

SCION MJcroAngelo Hi Res Graphics Systems SCAIL 

Similar savings on SSM. DELTA. OYNABYTE, TELEVIDEO. DIGIAC, ADOS. DEC. 
DATA GEN.. ATARI. TECHMAR. EPSON. ZENITH, MORROW. AND MANY OTHERS 



ANADEX 

CENTRONICS 

C. IT0H 

DATA PRODUCTS 

DIGITAL EOUIP. CORP. 

INTERGRAL DATA SYS. 



DIABLO 

EPSON 

FACIT 

0KIDATA 

OLIVETTI 

OANTEX 



lromS995 

MANNESMANN TALLY 

NEC AMERICA 

QUME 

TOSHIBA 

TELETYPE 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 



PLEASE! 



Do not confuse us with mail order dealers. We are a 
full service distributor serving the data processing & 

installation needs of business & industry from micros to mainframes. 

System houses, educational institutions & governmental agencies given 

special consideration. Leasing available. 



N.Y. State agencies, municipali- 
ties, and schools — call us for 
information on our O.G.S. term 
contracts on hardware & software. 



DEALER and INTERNATIONAL INQUIRIES WELCOME 



For last delivery, send certified check, money order or call to arrange direct Dank wire transfer Personal or company checks require two to three weeks to 
clear Prices subiect to change without notice: call for latest prices Prices include 3% cash discount NY residents add sales tax Qantex is a trademark of 
North Atlantic Industries. Inc. CP/ M" is a trademark of Digital Research All sales subiect to our standard sale conditions (available on request) Call for 
shipping charges. Above prices do not include customization or installation. DBase II is a trademark of Ashton Tate P.O.'s accepted upon our credit ap- 
proval; call for prices and terms. 



tasking in the 16-bit world are the 
main areas, and networking between 
the two is crucial. And while we have 
systems for all market segments, we 
think that on the 8086 and 8088 con- 
currency is what will satisfy most of 
the professional and small-business 
users. 

Of course there's the home segment 
and the industrial segment — all kinds 
of segments in which operating sys- 
tems fit in. But right now we're con- 
centrating on the professional/small- 
business segment. 

Our experimenting with user inter- 
faces applies here. Now when we go 
into a visual CCP (Console Com- 
mand Processor), we- don't just say 
we're going to put it on this one prod- 
uct. We've got to talk about putting it 
on at least all the CP/M market seg- 
ments. Perhaps MP/M II could live 
without upgrades, although there is 
no problem integrating a visual CCP. 
The strategy is to have a uniform in- 
terface and perhaps alternate inter- 
faces. As we develop more experience 
in that area, maybe we can come up 
with a different approach. 

The 3.1 File System 

The thing that's nice about our new 
products is that they all have what we 
call the 3.1 file system. It has protec- 
tion, works in real time, and offers 
file and record-locking commercial 
features. (Of course, a single-tasking 
operating system, by definition, can't 
be a real-time system.) When you 
write programs in this environment, 
you can actually port them into the 
networking system; you can net- 
work. You could start with CP/M 
Plus, then get a DEC Rainbow and 
run Concurrent CP/M-86 on it, and 
then get the networking and network 
the 8-bit system. They'd all talk 
together. When we talk about a user 
interface, we're talking about putting 
it across a family of products. We're 
working on both approaches — bit- 
mapping and character I/O. It's not 
really complicated. 

Pointing Devices 

Some people ask us what we think 
of having a mouse. What we think 
isn't really the issue. What the public 
thinks is the issue. It will be in- 



290 July 19*3 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 440 on Inquiry card. 



teresting to watch what happens if we 
get the mouse into the schools. The 
kids get so good at these things, they 
just develop a capability. 

Have you played video games? 
You get to where you just develop a 
feel for the joystick and how to do the 
game. If kids grow up learning how 
to use these things in school, mice will 
be second nature to them. The experts 
tell me that you can be very proficient 
with them. 

I think touch screens and voice will 
be as big a factor as mice. One of the 
reasons we chose the virtual device 
interface (VDI) approach to graphics 
was that it's both an output and an in- 
put system. The definition allows in- 
put devices, so things like mice and 
joysticks become an integral part of 
the system that has GSX (an imple- 
mentation of the graphics kernel stan- 
dard that includes a virtual-device in- 
terface). There are two fundamental 
reasons why GSX or VDI is superior 
to, say, NAPLPS (North American 
Presentation-Level Protocol Stan- 
dard) in the business segment. It's im- 
portant not to confuse segments. GSX 
accepts input devices that are going to 
be important in the professional 
workstations, and it has a two-way 
communication with the interface. In 
other words, I don't just say "draw a 
line." I can ask how many colors and 
line styles are supported, get that in- 
put from the system, and make a 
decision on how to present the graph. 

This leads to more portable soft- 
ware. If you're really going to talk 
about object-code portability and 
about supporting a number of 
machines, there are two ways of do- 
ing it. At present, the programmer 
sits down each time and makes a 
separate version of the program. Just 
feeding in the measurements and hav- 
ing the product come out would be an 
easier way. Now there is a little bit of 
a trade-off. You're never going to get 
the optimum custom fit that you get 
by writing new code for each 
machine, but how many of us have 
shirts made any more? I think it's go- 
ing to be the same way with software. 
Things like GSX lend themselves to 
this type of portability. 

Hardware manufacturers can de- 
sign a program that runs on the 






Straight 
talk 



Call ITM and talk to the person who answers 
your software questions. Quickly, correctly. 

Discount prices, too. 

Expertise and low prices are just two reasons 

you should call ITM first. 

For complete information on the 8 other 

reasons call toll free today. 

We make software buying simple. 

800-334-3404 

IN CALIFORNIA CALL 

415-284-7540 
ITM 

936 Dewing Ave., Suite E 
Lafayette, CA 94549 



Circle 190 on Inquiry card. 



July 19S3 © BYTE Publication. Inc 291 



IFIBM 
CANDISPLAYIT 

DIABLO CAN 



PRINT IT 



i£Mf< tj?Rihrmi> 




And we mean anything. Diablo 's 630 ECS is the 
only letter-quality printer on the market that can 
truly match IBM's PC character for character — all 
256 of them. 

Whether you work in a foreign language, or 
compile complex technical documents, Diablo's 
630 ECS is the only printer for you. And since 
our printer runs over 4000 hours trouble-free, 
you'll have little opportunity to take advantage of 
Diablo's national service network. (It's the largest 
of all the printer companies.) 

But these are just the beginning of a long list 
of reasons you should find out more about the 
Diablo 630 ECS. 

Diablo understands IBM better than anyone. 
And after all, what's the point in owning an IBM if 
you can't put it in print? 



Diablo, when every word counts. 



Diablo 

a Xerox Company 

P.O. Box 5030 

Fremont, California 94537 






For the dealer nearest you, call operator 606 at (800) 
842-7888, in CA(800) 852-7777. 



Circle 135 on inquiry card. 



machine now, and when they do a 
new graphics board the program will 
still run. You write one driver and all 
the other programs run on it. In soft- 
ware I think it's important to get that 
kind of portability across a large 
number of machines, to last through 
two or three generations of machines, 
get good value for the money, and 
benefit the end user. Having this kind 
of portability is going to bring about 
low-cost software. 

The Office Metaphor 

I think people confuse ease of 
learning and ease of use. Someone 
really has to make it clear that those 
are different concepts. Wordstar is a 
great example. I hear people blast 
Wordstar all the time because it's 
hard to use. But it's really only hard 
to learn; once you learn it, it's not 
that hard to use. I think people are 
really big on ease of learning because 
it helps sell products. They blast 
Wordstar's Control C or Control F. I 
know where the keys are, but I don't 
think it's any easier to use some func- 
tion keys. Especially on the IBM PC, 
where you get the first 10 by using Fl 
to 10 and others with combinations 
like Shift Fl. How is that easier? I 
think function keys promote ease of 
learning but not ease of use, par- 
ticularly for high-proficiency people 
who don't want to move their hands 
off the keyboard. 

I also think that we spend a lot of 
time talking about control keys rather 
than talking about the keyboards 
themselves. Somebody ought to look 
at a Displaywriter keyboard and then 
a PC and analyze the difference in 
terms of ease of use for someone who 
has to type for eight hours a day. I've 
never typed all day, but I do spend 
three or four hours at a keyboard. Ex- 
cept for top-of-the-line word pro- 
cessors like Displaywriter, most 
keyboards are fatiguing. There's a big 
difference between the Displaywriter 
keyboard and, say, the PC keyboard. 
The PC is a nice keyboard — I don't 
think it's the best keyboard on the 
market, but it's okay. 

The office metaphor — with filing 
cabinets, in-baskets, and so on — is 
very easy to learn because of the 
analogy. But once you have a com- 



^ * 



$589, 



jca« 
SA39 






%7>& 



*ffg 



$&&&** 









$A95 

$295 
$A95 

$7 00 
$400 
$700 

$A25 
$600 
$A2& 
$29 5 



OUB 

Hi 

S AA5 
$2A9 
$ 89 

S A69 

jAlf 
$A29 



$A95 

I 99 
$22* 






$250 
$31 5 
$300 
$300 
$300 
$300 



OUR 

pp,\C£ 
$A69 
$289 

$219 
$2^9 



$3* 5 
$A0O 

* 3 ^ 
$69 6 






f\^ 



*<*£ 



86 



,,MBesea^' c p/t* 



as** 



SftSS^JSpW 









SSS£ 



$350 

$22^ 
$400 



$A99 
Hi 



wBber 

256* 



,pOS 



$400 
$200 

$A95 
$A45 
$29 5 

$680 
$29 6 

$59 5 



$ 83 , 

|«19 

$A89 

$ 65 
$2A5 

$ 99 
$ 89 

$AA5 

$A29 
$A09 
$A99 

$A99 
$229 

$A2& 



At Diamond Software we 
■st selling business application soft- 
ware for your IBM PC, CP/M or Apple Computer at the lowest 
possible prices And we maintain a complete technical department 

to assist you before, during and after your system purchase Not only that, we 
offer same day shipment on most items and we accept Visa, Mastercard and 
also American Express Well even pay the shipping charges if you send 
us a money order, cashiers, company or personal check. Purchase ordeis 
are gladly accepted from qualified organizations and we welcome dealer 
inquiries Call Diamond today, you II be glad you did 

TO ORDER CALL TOLL-FREE 1-800-227-0545 
Diamond Software Supply 48* Lake pa^ Ave. suitem-oaMatvj cA^eto 

For price quotes, information or in California call 1-415-393-7676 We credit vour order tor 
thecall Technical Department (4 1 5) 893-7678 International Telex 3381 39 fattn 149) 

Support, Service and Price. 

Shipping/Handling UPS surface S3 00 plus an additional »3 00 per item for UPS Blue 
COD orders add S4 00 For personal check allow 2 weeks lot delivery All items subject 
to availability, prices subject to change without notice Caht residents please add 
8!'fe sales ta* IBM is a registered trademark ol International Business Machines 
CP m is ;i registered trademark ol Digits 



Circle 136 on inquiry card. 



July 19133 © BYTE Publications Inc 293 



Circle 422 on inquiry card. 





WON 
THE PRICE WAR 

In every battle, we came up the victors. Not only in price, 
but in service and support as well. 

Call to order: |-800"25T"52IT 

(in NJ 609-424-4700) 

Ttwtsrm 

) 

TriStar Data Systems 
2 Keystone Avenue 
Cherry Hill, NJ 08003 
609-424-4700 
215-629-1289 



We carry: 

Intertec Data Systems 
Corvus Concept 
Corvus Hard Disk 
C. Itoh Printers 
Victor 9000 



^ 



GET IBM-PC Capacity at a Fraction of IBM'S Price! 

New NETR ONICS 1 6 Bit EXPLORER 88-PC Kit 
Starts at Just (^^fe Accepts All IBM Peripherals. 



It's true! Now you can enjoy the power of the 
Intel 6088— the same microprocessor which 
powers the IBM-PC— and run any program com- 
piled for the IBM-PC.. .starting at only $399.95! 

Take this easy, low cost way to learn 16-bit 
technology! Two-board system features: 

1. 6088 mother board with 5-slot expansion 
bus; accepts any hardware designed for 
IBM-PC; and 

2. 64K memory board, expandable to 256K; 
with IBM compatible RS232 communica- 
cations port. 

Any disk-operating system which works on the 
IBM will work directly on the EXPLORER 88-PC, 
and all programs compiled for the IBM will run 
on ft. 

The system monitor ROM included in the Starter 
system features a user-friendly operating system 
that allows easy program generation and debug- 
ging. The commands include display/modify 
memory.. .display/modify registers. ..input/output 
data to 1/0 ports.. .block moves.. .single-step 
trace mode.. .go/run with optional breakpoint 
and register reports... cassette load/save with file 
labels.. .plus a complete system test program 
that tests and reports condition of ROM, RAM, 
cassette interface, timer, DMA controller, inter- 
rupt controller, and the communications port. 
These test programs not only allow easy debug- 
ging of software but they serve as hardware and 
software learning tools. 

The EXPLORER 88-PC STARTER KIT includes a 
mother board, memory/I/O board, al components 
needed, sockets for IC's used, one 62-pin bus 
connector and complete assembly/test instruc- 
tions. All you need is a soldering iron, solder, a 
power supply, and a standard RS232 terminal 
(Netronics has 2 low-cost ones to choose from). 

Explorer 88-PC Starter Kit,..$399.95 

+ 10.00 p&i 
D (wired & tested, add $100.00) 
DExtra 62 -pin connectors at $4.25 ea. 

+ 1.00 p&i. 
Use your own terminal with the EXPLORER 88-PC 
or, if you plan to expand it to be fully IBM com- 
patible, we offer our IBM compatible keyboard 
and an IBM compatible color graphics board 
(only available wired and tested). 



O IBM compatible keyboard. ..$299.95 
+ 10.00 p&i. 

□ IBM compatible color board. ..$299. 95 
+ 10.00 p&i. 

D Additional ROM required. ..$35. 00. 

Set your own pace! Invest and learn, at the rate 

YOU want! Add to your EXPLORER 88-PC: 
Deluxe heavy-duty steel cabinet that houses 
either two 5V«" floppies or a 5V. " hard disk 
with one floopy. This cabinet features a 
brush-finish front panel and a wood-grained 
sleeve. 

D EXPLORER 88-PC Cabinet.. .$199. 95 
+ 18.00 p&i. 

A heavy-duty open frame power supply 
with fan that can be used in your own cabi 
net or installed into the Netronics cabinet is 

available as follows: 

D10 amp power supply for system + 2 flop 
pies. ..$149, 95 + 8.00 p&i. 

□ As above + extra power for 1 hard disk... 
$169.95 + 8.00 p&i. 

DlBM compatible disk controller board. Con 
trols four 5V«" floppy drives (w/2 drive 
cable). Available wired and tested only. 
$250.00 + 8.00 p&i. 

O Monitors and BIOS source listings: available 
on either disk or hard copy at $35.00. 
Please specify format and system required. 

□ INTEL 8086/6088 user manual.. .$15.00 
* 1.50 p&i. 

DTHE 8086 BOOK by RECTOR & ALEX 
$16.00 + 1.50 p&l. 



11 EBB 111 


m^ 





D Special IBM compatible system: with key- 
board, color graphics board, floppy disk 
controller, 64K RAM, cabinet, standard 
power supply and a single 5V4" floppy drive... 
$1899.95+ 25.00 p&i. 

IBM compatible hard disks, built-in modern 

board, eprom burner, print buffer system plus 

more will be available shortly. 



Over 100 EXCLUSIVE Products and Kits- 
including the 'Speak Easy' universal voice 
synthesizer, a Diagnostic card with built-in 
logic probe for the IBM PC, terminals, moni- 
tors, the ELF and EXPLORER 85 computers, 
and much more, are described in our up- 
coming catalog. It's yours FREE if you check 



For Canadian orders! 

{please double the amount! 

j of p&i shown. IBM-PC is a I 

stered trademark of| 

Corporation. 




"p&i" stands for "postage and insurance". 



CALL TOLL FREE 1-800 243-7428 for Charge Card Orders. 
In Conn., call 203-354-9375, Conn. res. add sales tax. 

TO ORDER BV MAIL. CHECK BOXES FOR PRODUCTS DESIREO AND MAIL ENTIRE AD TO: 

liSV NETRONICS R&D LTD. 

333 Litchfield Rd., New Millard, CT 06776 
OR 



□ Amount enclosed 

Acct. No 

Signature 

PRINT NAME 

Address 



Charge my □ VISA 
Exp. Date 



O MASTERCARD 



City_ 



_State_ 



Zip 



puter, you probably find new ways of 
thinking about and doing things, 
ways that were never possible in an 
old office. In the same way, when 
IBM brought in all the tab machines 
and NCR brought in all its equipment 
back in the 1920s and 1930s, people 
developed new ways of doing things 
in the office. They had to. Without a 
typewriter and a Xerox machine, I 
don't know how we would function. 
With word processors, people 
learned to take a different approach. 
Word processors make it a simple 
matter to work on rough drafts much 
more than you ever did before. You 
feel free at any point to mark things 
up, change one or two words. Before 
word processing if you had a 20-page 
document and you changed three or 
four words, you would have had a 
rebellion. You just couldn't do that. 

Video Game Metaphors 

One interesting thing we're looking 
at from video games is the attract 
mode, where you get a feel for the 
system by seeing it go through all the 
things it can do. Gary Kildall has two 
kids. Scotty, the teenager, is an ace at 
video games. He's really good at 
Donkey Kong. I can never get into 
the elevator part. I think that the in- 
fluence of Scotty and his friends and 
other kids who like video games is 
showing up in the design of our soft- 
ware. 

We have some really talented peo- 
ple trying to design different inter- 
faces that work. There's definitely a 
commitment at DRI to the user inter- 
face both in bit-mapped and char- 
acter I/O approaches. At the same 
time, we work with Visicorp very 
closely, and its interface will be 
available for CP/M-86 systems. The 
character I/O interfaces from Digital 
Research will be available by the end 
of 1983, and Visi On will be available 
in the middle of 1983. 

I think that all these things will tie 
in to make available very good inter- 
faces on CP/M operating systems. 
We have maintained very good work- 
ing relationships with a large number 
of software houses, and cooperation 
among companies will make im- 
provements in the user interface 
widely available. ■ 



294 July 1983 © BYTE Publicadora Inc 



REFINED LUBRICANT 



THE 



STANDARD 



You can wait for industry standards 

to mandate improved performance. 

Or you can have it now on Maxell. 

The Gold Standard. 



What distinguishes a Maxell floppy disk? 
Improvements great and small, achieved in a 
decade of innovation. We developed 
unique, uniform crystals to assure dense 
oxide packing. Intensified the calendering 
process to minimize the need for abrasive 
burnishing. Created an improved binder 
and lubricant. And a new jacket , 

design that leaves industry standards 
in our wake. 

It would require photomicrographs 
to make some of these improvements 
observable. On the job, the advan- 
tages become obvious. Resolution 
enhanced by 20% creates a cleaner 




signal output. And guarantees the read/write 
accuracy in double-density applications. New 
jacket construction, heat-resistant to 
140°F, extends disk use without risk of 
mistracking. In effect, durability is re- 
defined. And in accelerated tests 
against the most respected names 
in the industry, Maxell sustained 
the highest and most consistent 
output over time. 

We applaud industry standards 

that aspire to dropout-free, 

reliable disk performance. 

The Gold Standard expresses 

a higher aim: perfection. 



m axe 1 1 

its worth rr 



Computer Products Division, Maxell Corporation of America, 60 Oxford Drive, Moonachie, N.J. 07074 201-440-8020 

Circle 251 on inquiry card. 



MICROBYTES 

Continued from page 8 

distance between any two stations is 20,000 feet. 

SSM Microcomputer Products Inc., San Jose, CA, is distributing Transend PC, a $189 icon-based, 
user-friendly electronic-mail program for the IBM PC developed by Small World Communications of 
Menlo Park, CA. One of the program's authors, Richard Moore, worked on Smalltalk-based computers at 
Xerox PARC and on the Apple Lisa computer; both make heavy use of icons and emphasize ease of use. 

VICTOR INTRODUCES LOCAL AREA NETWORK AND DISKLESS COMPUTER WORKSTATION 

Victor Technologies has announced a local area network that allows hard-disk sharing and supports up 
to three printers, plotters, or other peripherals. The company will also offer a low-cost diskless computer 
workstation that can be combined with microcomputers on the network. Based on Corvus's Omninet, 
the network supports 54 workstations and 10 file servers at a speed of 1 megabit per second. The file 
servers offer a 10-megabyte hard disk, a floppy-disk system storing 1 .2 megabytes, and 256K bytes of 
RAM for $5495. 



MICROSOFT, SUMMAGRAPHICS. AND MOUSE SYSTEMS DISPLAY THREE NEW MICE 

Microsoft announced its two-button mechanical mouse, which will work with Multiplan and Microsoft's 
new word processor, Multi-Tool Word. The mouse will sell for $195 with two educational programs and 
Multi-Tool Notepad, a simple text processor. Summagraphics, the bitpad manufacturer, displayed the 
Summa Mouse, a three-button optical device, to be used with Visi On. It will sell for $300. Mouse 
Systems, Santa Clara, CA, has created a mouse for the IBM PC that can be used with existing 
commercial software, translating mouse movements and button presses into user-definable code 

I sequences. 

KODAK PRESENTS ULTRA HIGH-DENSITY FLOPPY DISKS 

Eastman Kodak's Spin Physics division, San Diego, CA, showed samples of its new Isomax ultra-high- 
density floppy disks. Cobalt-doped isotropic magnetic particles allow vertical recording (using small-gap 
recording heads) with each disk, potentially storing 5 megabytes at 96 tracks per inch. The most 
interest, Kodak reports, has been in 5% -inch disks, which have sold for under $30 each in small sample 
quantities, but samples have also been produced in three microfloppy sizes. Full production is scheduled 
by the end of 1983. 

GREAT LAKES COMPUTER PERIPHERALS CO. OFFERS 10 MEGABYTES FOR LESS THAN $1000 

The Great Lakes Computer Peripherals Co., Schaumberg, IL, announced the availability of its 
Magnabyte-10, a 10-megabyte hard-disk unit for the IBM PC and PC-bus compatible systems running 
under PC-DOS 2.0. An enclosed unit, the Magnabyte-10 comes with power supply, disk-controller card, 
and cables. It also has room for another 10-megabyte hard disk in the case. Price of the single-drive unit 
is $995; the dual-drive unit sells for $1795. 

AML YN AND SONY ANNOUNCE HIGH-DENSITY DISK DRIVES 

Amlyn Corp. announced 5%-inch floppy-disk drives that can store 3.3 megabytes of data using double- 
sided recording at a density of 9500 bits per inch at 1 70 tracks per inch. The drives use an Intel 8051 
microprocessor to handle real-time control functions, including the ability to read disks recorded at 
standard track densities such as 48, 96, or 100 tpi. Sony introduced another entry in the "smaller is 
larger" category with a double-sided version of the 3% -inch microfloppy disk drive that can store 1 
megabyte of data. 

CONTROL DATA'S CRICKET' WINCHESTER STORES 6 MILLION BYTES 

Control Data Corp. introduced several OEM disk-drive products at the show, including the CDC 9270-6 
"Cricket," a 3V2-inch Winchester hard-disk drive that uses thin-film heads and nickel-cobalt-plated disks 
to provide personal computer users with 6.38 million bytes of unformatted data storage. The Cricket is 
compatible in timing and format with the industry-standard Seagate ST506 interface, which transfers 
data at 5 megabits per second. The complete disk drive, which incorporates a band-stepper positioning 
technique, is 1 .63 inches high, 4 inches wide, and 6.37 inches deep. Linear recording densities are 
1 5,390 bits per inch and 450 tracks per inch. Developed by the technology division of Magnetic 
Peripherals Inc., a CDC subsidiary, the Cricket will be available for OEMs in evaluation quantities in the 
third quarter for $465. 

296 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



MANNESMANN TALLY INTRODUCES THE SPRITE, A MEW LOW-COST PRINTER 

Mannesmann Tally, Kent, WA, has introduced a low-cost printer, the Sprite, for $399 and has reduced 
the price of its MT 160 printer by 25 percent, to $698. Both printers emulate the popular Epson MX-80 
in character and graphics modes. The Sprite is an 80-cps printer with a full-spaced 9 by 8 dot matrix, a 
parallel interface, and friction and tractor feed. The MT 160, when combined with a $100 option, 
produces near-typewriter quality printing in a two-pass mode with various text-formatting capabilities. 
Both versions of the MT 1 60 print at 1 60 cps. 

DEC DEMONSTRATES AN INTERACTIVE VIDEO INFORMATION SYSTEM 

Digital Equipment Corp. showed an optional enhancement to the Professional 350 computers: IVIS, the 
Interactive Video Information System. Still-frame or dynamic video signals from either of two NTSC 
(National Television System Committee) sources can be superimposed or intermixed with bit-mapped 
960- by 240-pixel text and color graphics on a 1 3-inch RGB monitor, accompanied by two audio 
channels. Education and video production are two expected applications for the system. An IVIS- 
equipped Professional sells for $12,624. 

MYSTERY GAME PUTS DETECTIVES ON RUMP 

Murder on the Zinderneuf, a video game from Electronic Arts, lets amateur sleuths assume the role of 
their favorite detective to solve a new mystery with each game. Game players uncover clues by 
questioning the other passengers on the Zinderneuf, a dirigible. Answers vary with the detective and 
style of questioning the player chooses. The game sells for $40 and is available for Atari 400, 800, and 
1 200 XL. 

IBM OFFERS PLASMA DISPLA Y AND 4 INCH DISK DRIVE 

IBM showed two interesting, if curious, products. One, a plasma display running on an IBM PC, 
measures 1 6 by 1 2 by 2Vi inches and has a resolution of 960 by 768 pixels (about 71 dots per inch). 
The display is bright red, and it can produce some striking graphics. The display is being offered to 
manufacturers at about $3400 in single-unit quantities. The other IBM product is a 4-inch floppy-disk 
drive. The drive uses a French-curve shaped cam to position the recording head and uses no track 
sensors to position the head. The speed changes for each track so that the medium passes the head at 
the same speed for each track. The drive can store 250K bytes on a single-density single-sided disk at 
68 tracks per inch and 6865 bits per inch. The disk looks like the 5%-inch variety except that the disk 
envelope and sleeve are made of hardened plastic. 

CANON UNVEILS A SEVEN-COLOR INKJET PRINTER 

Canon displayed a seven-color ink-jet printer, the A-1 210, which sells for about $795. The print head 
for the Canon uses four nozzles and prints 40 characters per second. Graphics resolution is 640 dots 
per line. The printer uses plain roll paper, 8V2 inches wide. 

NANOBYTES 

Epson announced three additions for the portable HX-20 Notebook Computer: The Skiwriter word- 
processing software, a microcassette drive, and Typing Tutor. The word-processing package is available 
in ROM format and features a context-sensitive HELP facility. . . . Hewlett-Packard is offering four new 
plug-in software packages for its HP-75C portable computer, giving users a full-featured Visicalc, Text 
Formatter, Math Pac, and Surveying Pac. . . . Micropro is giving away a CP/M board for the Apple II and 
lie with the purchase of Wordstar or Infostar. . . . Seeq Technology of San Jose, CA, will announce this 
month that its EEROMs (electrically erasable read-only memories) can be rewritten 100,000 times. In 
effect, this provides reprogrammable nonvolatile semiconductor memory. . . . The Alien Group, New 
York, NY, has created the Sprinter, a $580 62K-byte intelligent buffer that allows users to dump a 
document to the buffer and interactively display it on a video monitor. A 1 2-key keypad allows scrolling 
within the stored document to print selected portions. . . . Polaroid announced a low-cost interactive 
film recorder that produces 35mm slides and instant photos of personal computer screen graphics. The 
Polaroid palette will be available later this year in Apple and IBM PC versions for $1 300. . . . Both 
Tecmar and Persyst, makers of add-on boards for the IBM PC, announced versions of their products for 
the Texas Instruments Professional Computer. . . . Koala Technologies Corp., Los Altos, CA, introduced 
an IBM PC version of its Koalapad nonkeyboard input device and Koalaware graphics software. 

July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 297 



TO YOUR APPLE n,PORONLY$19S. 



WTO 



If you like "talking" to your 
Apple by pushing keys and look- 
ing at a screen, you'll like the j 
real thing — computer-gen- 
erated speech— even more. 

For home use, there's 
nothing like the friendliness 
of the spoken word for 
learning languages, teach- 
ing children to read, or 
playing video games. And 
around the office, you'll appreciate the convenience of 
synthesized speech for announcing important messages 
you may miss on the screen, relaying status informa- 
tion, answering telephone inquiries, and a host of other 
routine tasks. 

Now you can do all these things -and more— with 
our new SSB-APPLE Speech Synthesis Board. All at a 
price that won't leave you speechless: $195. 

At a fraction of the price of other speech synthe- 
sizers, the SSB-APPLE features the largest vocabulary 
available today for the Apple II: 1200 words, enabling 



\\ I 



you to create virtually any mes- 
sage you want. And because 
we use Texas Instruments' 
high-performance TMS5220 
speech chip -coupled with 
an on-board amplifier and 
external high-quality speaker 
-you also get the most 
natural sounding voice 
quality around. 
But don't take our word 
for it. Take your Apple's. To order, call toll-free (800) 538- 
1542; in California, (408) 773-8400 Or write us today. 

Easy to install ant) to activate from any BASIC pn-\~ 
gram, the SSB-APPLE kit comes complete with every! 
thing you need to make a dumb Apple articulate: board, 
high-quality speaker and cable, digitized dictionary 
(on 5V4-inch floppies), and handy reference manual. 

MULTITECH 
ELECTRONICS 

Muititech Electronics, Inc., 195 West El Camino Real, 
Sunnyvale, CA 94086 

Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. Dealer inquiries welcome. 

Circle 289 on Inquiry card. 




The 8086 — An Architecture 

for the Future 

Part 2: Instruction Set 

The 8086 lets you easily construct compact programs 



High-level languages have been in- 
troduced over the years to ease the 
burden of programming. These lan- 
guages consist of statements in a form 
more understandable by humans, as 
opposed to assembly language and 
machine code. But these statements 
still must be translated into machine 
code — the language the computer 
understands. For most high-level lan- 
guages, the translation process in- 
volves the use of a compiler. 

A compiler's code should be effi- 
ciently produced so that it doesn't oc- 
cupy a large amount of memory 
space and executes quickly. Depend- 
ing on the machine code needed by 
the microprocessor, this translation 
might or might not be an easy task for 
the compiler. 

In part 1, I discussed how the 
method of addressing memory to ac- 
cess variables, using a segment and an 
offset, supported the high-level-lan- 
guage needs for memory-based 
variables. Table 1 reviews the 8086 
addressing modes. The 8086 16-bit 
data structure and registers fulfill the 
larger data-type needs. In this part, I 
will explore how the instruction set 
assists high-level-language compilers 
in their task. 

Instructions 

Instructions can have no operands, 
one operand, or two operands. Most 
two-operand instructions follow the 
convention of the destination fol- 
lowed by the source, as used in the 



by Stephen A. Hey wood 

8080 microprocessor. For example, 
the instruction ADD BX,AX means 
add the source and destination 
together (AX and BX) and place the 
result in the destination (BX). 

Most instructions in the 8086 set 
operate on either bytes or words. 
Registers, immediate data, and mem- 
ory contents can be designated as the 
source or destination in many opera- 
tions; however, immediate data can 
only be the source. This capability 
lets you add 5 to the contents of a 
memory location and store the result 
back in memory. It also aids you in 
manipulating variables in high-level 
languages. Instead of having to write 
the intermediate steps to bring a 
memory variable into a register for 
manipulation and then storage, you 
can accomplish it in one instruction. 

The 8086 uses general-purpose 
mnemonics, instead of one for each 
op code, with the operands defining 
the type of operation. For example, 
the 8086 mnemonic MOV (move) 
replaces such 8080 mnemonics as 
LDA, STA, LXI, MVI, and STAX, 
among others. This replacement 
means fewer mnemonics for you to 
remember and lets you concentrate 
on the program itself. 

Many 8086 instruction mnemonics 
resemble those of the 8080, but with 
increased capabilities. This similarity 
permits easy conversion of 8080 
assembler code to that of the 8086. 
Conversion programs take 8080 as- 
sembler code and convert it to 8086 



assembler code for reassembly. The 
converted programs are larger and do 
not take full advantage of the 8086's 
instruction set, but do allow a quick 
way to upgrade 8080 software to the 
8086. 

Several new operations in the 8086 
instruction set achieve the following 
added capabilities: 

• multiplication and division of 
signed, unsigned, and unpacked 
decimal numbers 

• string operations such as moves, 
scans, and compares 

• byte translations using tables 

• software interrupts 

• program-loop instructions 

• multiprocessor and coprocessor 
coordination 

• nondestructive bit testing 

The various addressing modes and 
instruction types combine to make a 
large number of distinct instructions. 
It would be tedious to program in 
machine language, which requires us 
to manually combine addressing 
mode and instruction type for each 
instruction we use. Because com- 
puters excel at tedious tasks, assem- 
blers and high-level-language com- 
pilers are recommended program- 
ming tools. 

Data-Transfer Instructions 

The data-transfer instructions, as 
listed in table 2, provide the means to 



July 19»3 © BYTE Publications Inc 299 



Circle 460 on inquiry card. 




All equipment is in factory cartons with manufac- 
turers' warranty. Prices subject to change without 
notice. Most items in stock or shipped as received. 



1 



NATIONWIDE SERVICE. MOST PRODUCTS 

SUPER WAREHOUSE 



P.O BOX 373 WAUINGFORD. CONNECTICUT 06492 
ORDER LINE ORDER HOURS 

203-265-1223 900 AM S:0 ° PMeST 

MONDAY-FRIDAY 

PHONE ORDERS FREE 

(ONE DOLLAR CREDIT FOR PHONE ORDERS) 



Mode 


Location of Data 


Examples 
Using Add 


Immediate 


Within instruction 


ADDCH.5F 


Register 


In register 


ADD BX.DX 


Direct 


At memory location pointed to by 
offset contained in instruction 


ADD WVAR.BX 


Register Indirect 


At memory location pointed to by 
offset contained in register 


ADD CX,[BX] 


Indexed or Based 


At memory location pointed to by 
sum of index or base register con- 
tents and displacement in instruc- 
tion 

Memory address is sum of base 


ADD[SI + 6],AL 


Based and Indexed 


ADD[BX+DI + 5],DX 


with Displacement 


register contents and index register 
contents and displacement 





Table 1: The 8086 addressing modes supply the operands for the instructions. To ac- 
cess variables for instructions, the 8086 uses its addressing modes to generate the off- 
set for memory variables. The full address for memory variables consists of the con- 
tents of a segment register plus the addressing mode. 



Mnemonic 


Description of Operation 


MOV dest, source 


Move byte or word 


PUSH source 


Push word onto stack 


POP dest 


Pop word off stack 


PUSHF 


Push flags onto stack 


POPF 


Pop flags off stack 


XCHG op1 , op2 


Exchange operand 1 with operand 2 


LAHF 


Load AH register from flags 


SAHF 


Store AH register in flags 


IN ace, port 


Input byte or word to accumulator 


OUT port, ace 


Output byte or word in accumulator 


LEA dest, source 


Load effective address 


LDS dest, source 


Load pointer into destination and DS 


LES dest, source 


Load pointer into destination and ES 


XLAT 


Translate byte 



Table 2: The data-transfer instructions set up registers or memory locations, com- 
municate between the 8086 and input/output devices, save to the stack and retrieve 
that information, and translate data from one form to another. 



set up registers or memory locations, 
communicate between the 8086 and 
I/O (input/output) devices, save to 
the stack and retrieve that informa- 
tion, and translate data from one 
form to another. Only the POPF (pop 
flags off stack) and SAHF (store AH 
register in flags) instructions affect 
the flag register; the remaining data- 
transfer instructions have no effect on 
the flags. 

The MOV instruction is a nonde- 
structive copy of the source operand 
(the second operand) to the destina- 
tion operand. The source and destina- 
tion are either bytes or words and can 
be register or memory contents using 
the addressing modes, but both can- 
not be memory contents. The source 
can also be immediate data, which 



satisfies the need to set up registers 
and variables in memory. For exam- 
ple, you might want to set up a 
variable in memory called HOUR 
with a value of 5. The instruction 
would then look like this in the pro- 
gram: 

MOV HOUR,5 

with the offset in memory in place of 
HOUR. 

The PUSH (push word onto stack) 
and POP (pop word off stack) in- 
structions provide a way of saving 
and restoring the contents of a 
register, the contents of a memory 
location using the addressing modes 
(not immediate data), or the contents 
of the flag register (using the PUSHF 



300 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Printers 

Software compatability is crucial in 
choosing any printer, so before you 
decide, check that your software can 
work with a given printer. This is your 
responsibility, not ours. 

Interfacing with most micros is a 
choice between parallel or RS-232C 
(serial). Be sure you know which type 
your computer handles. Wherever 
possible, use the parallel option. It's 
easier to use & it cost less too. 



C. ITOH 

Prowriter 




Reviewers laud the Prowriter s 
speed (1 20 cps), the buffer (1 .5K), 
character sets (5 fonts) and graphics 
(1 60x1 44 dpi). The Prowriter 2 has 
the same specs, but in a 1 32 column 
format. Because delivery is slow 
nationwide, the Prowriter has 
become "The Printer Worth Waiting 
For..." 

Prowriter $399.88 

Prowriter 2 $734.88 

STARMICRONICS 

Gemini 10X/15 




Gemini 1 0X (a new version) 
features 1 20 cps, 1 20 x 1 44 dpi, 5 
fonts (w/italics) and a 2.2K buffer. It's 
Epson code compatible too. Gemini 
comes with tractors & uses plain 
spool ribbons. The Gemini 1 S is the 
1 32 column version. Call for the lates 
& greatest prices 

OKIDATA 

Microline Series 




Microline 82As & 83As are data 
crunchers with 1 20 cps and optional 
dot-addressable graphics ROM. They 
come with both parallel & RS-232C 
interface (up to 1 200 baud). 

The Microline 92 & 93 are text 
processors with 1 60 cps draft mode, 
a 40c ps correspondence mode & the 
graphics included. 

Microline 82A $41 9.88 

82A/92 Tractor $59.88 

Microline 83A $679.88 

Microline 92 $524.88 

W/RS-232C $834.88 

Microline 93 $884.88 

W/RS-232C $994.88 



US Robotics Password 

$379.88 UPS DELIVERED 




An exceptional value for a 1 200 baud modem. The Password is a 
direct connect originate/answertype modem with 0-300 & 1 200 baud 
capability (Bell 2 12A compatible). Features include auto dial, auto 
answer, auto mode and auto speed select, full & half duplex (local echo), 
DTR override, RS-232C pins 2 & 3 reversible S audio phone line monitor. 
Single button operation makes the Password very easy to use. Comes 
with an RS-232C cable, power supply & modulartelephone cable. 



We sell other dot matrix printers, 
including the Anadex Series, 
Centronics Series, the Epson 
Series, the IDS Prism Series & the 
Mannesmann Tally 1 60-L. 

Letter-Quality 

C. ITOH 

Starwriter 




The Starwriter uses Diablo code, 
wheels & ribbons, has 1 32 columns, a 
40 cps print speed, 1 /48" line space 
& 1/120" horizontal spacing— ideal 
for proportional modes. Parallel or 
RS-232C interfacing. (For real speed 
freaks, there's the Printmaster, at 
55 cps. Same specs as above.) 

Starwriter $1 379.88 

Printmaster $1 679.88 

SILVER REED 

EXP-550 




WhybuyaTranstarwhenyoucan 
buy from the guys who make them? 
The Silver Reed EXP-550 is a 1 6 
cps, 1 32 column letter-quality printer 
with true Diablo emulation, making it 
compatible with most word pro- 
cessing software. It's ideal for 
medium duty office work. The EXP- 
500 is the 1 2 cps version. 

EXP-550 (Parallel) $719.88 

EXP-550 (RS-232C) $759.88 

EXP-500 (Parallel) SCALL 



We sell a variety of other letter- 
quality printers, including the 
Comrex ComRiter, the Diablo 620 
A 630, the DTC 380Z, the NEC 
3530 A 7730 Spinwriters, the Qume 
Sprint 1 1 + & many others. 



USI 

Pi Series 




We're still using our Pi 3 amber 
monitor advertised last year. The 
concensus is yes, amber is easier on 
the eye. So is the Pi-3's 20M Hz 
bandwidth and sharp, clear phos- 
phor. Comes in 9 or 1 2", & in green for 
you stubborn types. 

Pi 2(12" green) $1 59.88 

Pi 3 (1 2" amber) $1 89.88 

Pi 4 (9" amber) $1 59.88 

Amdek 

Color 1 $339.88 

300A $159.88 

300G $149.88 

PRINCETON GRAPHICS 

HX-12 

The HX-1 2 is, without dispute, the 
highest resolution RGB available for 
the PC. 1 6 colors (using NEC's tube), 
690 dots by 240 lines, 1 5MHz band- 
width & more. The HX-1 2's case 
styling is identical to IBM's. It comes 
with its own cable. 
PGS HX-1 2 (RGB) $529.88 

DC HAYES 

Smartmodem 

The Smartmodem is an originate/ 
answer, auto dial/answer, full/half 
duplex internal. It comes complete 
with all hardware (except RS-232C 
cable). It's available in 300 or 1 200 
baud version. 

Smartmodem (300 baud) $21 9.88 

Smartmodem (1 200 baud). . . $539.88 



NOVATION 

SmartCat (300 baud) $1 99.88 

SmartCat ( 1 200 baud) $499.88 

Apple Cat 1 1 $31 9.88 

D-Cat (300 baud) $1 59.88 

J-Cat (300 baud) $1 39.88 

AutoCat (300 baud) $229.88 

AutoCat ( 1 200 baud) $629.88 



QUADRAM 

Quadboards 




We sell Quadboards because they 
consistantly perform better than any 
other board we've seen. They come 
with 64K & 256K on-board, a parallel 
port, a RS-232C port, a clock & the 
software (QuadDrive/Spooler). The 
Quad 51 2+ is a memory board with a 
RS-232C port. Single function boards 
are also available. Quadram products 
are warrantied for a full year. 

64K Quadboard $279.88 

256KQuadboard $429.88 

51 2+ Expansion 

Quad 51 2+ (64K) $239.88 

Quad 512+ (256K) $399.88 

Quad 51 2+ (51 2K) $599.88 

QUADRAM 

QuadLink 

A real breakthrough! QuadLink lets 
you run Apple ll/ll+/lle software in 
the IBM PC. It's like having a 64K 
Apple computer installed in your PC. 
QuadLink uses standard PC orinter 
ports, monitors, etc. No disk 
conversion or reformatting required. 
Takes up only one slot. 
QuadLink $549.88 

IBM PC COMPATIBLE 

Disk Drives 

Single-sided $229.88 

Double-sided $279.88 



Information/Orders: 

(603)881-9855 

Orders Only: (800) 343-0726 



No Hidden Charges: 

We pay UPS ground shipping on all 
our orders, and we never charge 
extra for credit cards. We accept 
CODs & add a $1 fee per order. We 
have a $50 minimum order. Personal 
checks are cleared in 3 weeks. 

All our equipment is shipped 
factory-fresh, with full warranties. 
We're authorized for warranty work 
onanumberof printers, & we also 
offer extended warranty plans for 
those printers. 

Sorry, we cannot accept open POs 
or extend credit/terms at these 
prices. APO and foreign orders are 
not accepted. 

We prepared this ad in May, & 
prices do change, so call to verify 
them. 

B^B|!!3 Circle 54 on inquiry card. 



HIGH TECHNOLOGY AT AFFORDABLE PRICES 

THE BOTTOM LINE 





IMILFORD, NH 03055-0423 □ TELEPHONE (603) 881-98551 



Circle 484 on Inquiry card. 



Need More Serial 
Ports? 




Price 

$249.00 



• Add a BTA smart multiport 
controller to your C.P.U. 

• The MODEL 524 expands a 
single RS232 port to four in- 
dividual ports with port 
selection and baud rate con- 
trolled by user software. 

• Buffered inputs permit 
simultaneous operation in- 
creasing data exchange 
rate. 

• 62K spooler model also 
available. 



Bay Technical Associates 

P.O. Box 387, Bay St. Louis, MS. 39520 
601-467-8231 



— 




SYSTEM 83 



What's your problem? 



Software development; color graphics; high speed communi- 
cations; industrial control & robotics (FORTH); word pro- 
cessing/document formatting; computer time-sharing; timing 
of Hawaiian marathon; farm management; CAD/CAM, labor- 
atory control; CAT scan, dermatology graphics; medical 
analysis; pattern recognition (music/speech); relational data- 
base; telecommunications; mobile geophysical studies; data 
copying; automatic typesetting; data processing security. 




What is your need? Let DUAL SYSTEMS be the solution. 

IEEE-696/S-100 based, 68000/UNIX,™ multi-user/multi- 
tasking, 20/80M byte. 

Call today for information 




DUAL SYSTEMS CORPORATION 

2530 San Pablo Avenue • Berkeley • CA 94702 (415) 549-3854 • 172029 SPX 



[push flags onto stack] and the POPF 
instructions). These operations use 
the stack. The stack is pointed to by 
the SS (stack segment) register; the SP 
(stack pointer) register points to the 
top of the stack (the last word placed 
on the stack). All stack operations 
must consist of 16-bit words. In figure 
1, a PUSH operation decrements the 
SP register by 2 and then writes the 
word; a POP operation reads the 
word from the stack and increments 
the SP by 2. Words are written in 
memory by the standard Intel con- 
vention of the low byte in the lower 
address and the high byte in the 
higher address. Being able to use 
PUSH to place memory contents on 
the stack proves useful when we later 
look at passing parameters to pro- 
cedures. 

Operations PUSH, POP, and 
MOV let you use a segment register 
as one of the operands. For MOV, 
you can employ any of the addressing 
modes, except immediate, for the 
source, with the destination as a seg- 
ment register. This permits you to set 
up the segment registers at the start of 
the program. 

Because you would want to only 
set up the registers and then leave 
them alone, data transfers are the on- 
ly instructions allowed to change DS 
(data segment), ES (extra data seg- 
ment), and SS. Because CS (code seg- 
ment) is the segment register for ac- 
cessing instructions with the IP (in- 
struction pointer) register supplying 
the offset, you would not want to 
change CS alone. Therefore, the data- 
transfer instructions cannot use the 
CS register as the destination; in- 
stead, you would use program trans- 
fers, such as JMP (jump) or CALL 
(call), to change CS and IP together. 

Figure 2 shows a sample program 
that sets up the segment registers to 
point to certain locations. Recall from 
part 1 that the contents of the seg- 
ment registers are the most significant 
16 bits of the absolute 20-bit address. 
To set up the segment register, you 
would either use MOV to transfer an 
immediate value to a general register 
and then move that value into the 
segment register, as shown in the ex- 
ample, or have that value in a 
memory table. Notice that the SP 

Text continued on page 307 



302 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 461 on Inquiry card. 



More documentation? 
Go to a book store." 



"Training? Call a 
computer school." 




Technical support? 
Call the publisher." 



Interested in dBASE ir or 1-2-3"? 
Beware The Dreaded Finger Pointers! 



Sound familiar? Does your 
dealer turn into a "finger 
pointer" when you need help? 
At Software Banc we offer a 
complete system that doesn't 
stop when your software is 
delivered. 



Do you get bewildered by 
the endless lists of soft- 
ware you find in most ads? 
Let us be your quality control 
department. 

We only sell the best pro- 
grams on the market. After a 
thorough evaluation we chose 
dBASE H ,M for data process- 
ing, and 1-2-3 ,M for financial 
management. 

Our complete line of add-on 
products help you to continue 
to get the most from your 
software. 

When you buy software from 
us, you can rest assured that 
help is only a phone call 
away. Just call us at (617) 
641-1235 for all the free 
support you need. 



Order dBASE 1 1™ from us, and 
you'll receive a free copy of 
our dBASE I I™ User's Guide. 
You can also buy the User's 
Guide first for only $29, and 
then receive a full credit when 
you buy dBASE 1 1. ,M 

French Translation 

La Commande Electronique 

5 Villa Des Entrepreneurs 

75015 Paris, France 

Japanese Translation 

JSEInt'l 

9F Toyo Bldg. 6-12-20 Jingmae 

Shibuya-ku Tokyo, Japan 150 

Want more in-depth informa- 
tion about dBASE II T " or 1-2-3™? 
Attend a SoftwareBanc Semi- 
nar near you. Each session runs 
from 9 to 5, and costs $175. 
Seminars are in lecture 
format with a custom sound & 
video system which is used to 
display taped interviews with 
prominent software personal- 
ities and sessions with various 
software programs. 



tl-2-3" ..$399 

tdBASEH'" ..$479 

tABSTAT " . . .$379 

dBASE II" User's Guide $29 

DBPIus" .. ...$95 

dGRAPH'" ..$199 

dUTIL" ...$69 

dNAMES'" ..$109 

QUICKCODE" ..$199 

TEXTRA" . .$60* 

tNo-risk 60 day money back guarantee 
'Only available for IBM PC with MS-DOS. 



If you want to learn more about 
SoftwareBanc, call or write for our 
free product catalog. 



661 Massachusetts Avenue 
Arlington, Mass. 02174 
For technical support call: 
(617)641-1235 

Dealer Inquiries Invited. 

'"Manufacturer's trademark 
Payment may be made by: MasterCard, Visa, check, 
C.O.D. . money order. Mass. residents please add 
5% sales tax. Add $5.00 for shipping and handling. 
Prices subject to change. 




Los Angeles 

July 18-22 

Washington, D.C. 

Aug. 29-Sept. 2 



Anchorage 

August 11-12 

New York City 

September 19-23 



t 



I 



Order Toll Free 
(617) 641-1241 in Mass. 



TffiJ SoftwareBanc [trH" J 

| mmgtwM.M Qgm \ ^ j 



Circle 379 on inquiry can 



/IST Quality Add-On 

Communications 





Async #1- 



Printer- 



^■■- 






Advanced Comm. 
Cord (CC-232) 

• Programmable to com- 
municate in Bisync, SDLC, 
HDLC, and Async protocols. 
. Two Ports of RS 232 

AST products are available from Computerland, 
Entre, ComputerMart and selected dealers 
worldwide. Call factory if your dealer does not 
have the AST products you want. 

IBM is the registered trademark ot International Business Machines. 



For use with 

AST- 3780 

. An IBM 2780/3780 RJE 
Emulator • Supports Bisync 

I point- to- point communications 
protocol • Allows file transfer 
between Host& IBM PC • Ideal 
for IBM System 34, 38, 4300 

. Emulates IBM 3274 
Model 51 C Control Unit 
. Emulates 3278 Display Sta- 
tion • Emulates 3278 Type 
Printer • Optional 3770 Emula- 
tion • Cluster Controller 
Operation • Protocol Con- 



64-256K_L^ 
Memory » ; 



■ii:iiii'i));Mlt 

'JiulvJ'"" 






Standard Features: 

> 64K-256K Memory 

• One Battery Backed- 
up Clock* One IBM 
Compatible Async Port 

• One IBM Compatible 
Printer Port • Super- 
Drive™ • SuperSpool™ 

• From $395 



verter Support 

„• i. the registered trademark o. Orchid T.chnCogy. AST-3780 isde.eioped by WMmo. Systems ,nc. and AST Resea, 



oducts for 



Multifunction Cords 



NOW! New Product Highlight 

flST-5251 - Fin interactive IBM 5251 Model 12 remote work station emulator using PC 
PCnet - A local Area Network for IBM PC featuring disk sharing, file locking printer 
sharing and supports up to 64,000 PCs. One M bit CSMR/CD technology using 75 ohm 
CHfV Cable. Hundreds of PCnets have been installed in IBM PCs. 
PlusMoclem'" - Integrated Direct Connect 212, 1200 band auto-dial modem clock 
game port, printer port and second Rsunc port. 

Coll Factory For Details 



Async #1 



— ••••■. (.5 



;»»-4.-;.-.Ji ■ ."" I 
f) : 



»-» 



l« ,,«Ww »:» 



Printer- 
Clock- 

Battery 



Async #2- 



l/O Plus II 

is an enhanced \" " 
version of I/O Plus 
featuring: • One 
Clock Calendar 



Ports (1 std, 1 opt.) 
• One IBM Com- 



■ Async #1 



~f ••MB" 



""-- PtfW 



-Printer 



-Clock 



64-512K 
(with MegaPak) 

MegaPak 



Compatible Game 
Port (opt.) • Super- 

d o rive Z * ^ up T 

■*• Spool • From $165 



.jusa^trl'.' 



Async #2 




«£s&t$UtJ. 1 '.Vi»w*S 



• 64K-512K (with MegaPak) • Two IBM Com- 
patible Async Ports (1 std., 1 opt.) • One IBM 
Parallel Printer Port (opt.) • One Battery Backed- 
up Clock Calendar (std.) • SuperDrive™ (std ) 

• SuperSpool™ (std.) . Ideal for Concurrent 
CP/M, MBA, VISI Series software packages. 




Connectftir 

NEW! AST Proprietory 
Connector Mounting Bracket 
for PC only (does not include 
cables shown in illustration) 



> J\ j 2372 Morse Avenue 

OCCC1 iru mr lrvine ' Calif - 92714 
nt>tHHvn INC. (714) 540-1333 

Dealer Inquiries Welcome 

Circle 4 on Inquiry card. 



Does it really work .. . 
prove it to yourself. . . 

MICRO-TAX 

Post Taxseason 

SALE 

Order the 1982 Micro-Tax* personal computer tax preparation system 
and prove-it-yourself that it can increase your client volume and A:, 
profits in 1984! Regularly $1000 ea (if current tax year) full ^k 
federal systems (not a sample) for only S58 ea. Jm 

A post-taxseason sale? That's right! We decided to have a 
clearance sale for all you tax professionals out there who 
need to be convinced that a Micro-Tax* personal computer 
tax preparation system can make life a lot easier for you, and 
produce more profits for your business. For only $58 (the cost of 
processing and handling) we'll send you a full 1982 federal (regularly 
$1000 ea., if current tax year) Micro-Tax* system that computes and 
prints over 30 schedules and forms. 

Test it on your own computer (Apple, IBM PC, IBM XT, or any other 
personal computer with CP/M, PC DOS, or MS DOS*) and you'll be convinced 
that you no longer need to prepare tax forms manually or use a computer service 
bureau. Then, with complete confidence, you can order your 1983 systems. 

MICRO-TAX* IS VERSATILE AND FLEXIBLE— With Micro-Tax* you can input client tax 
information at the time of interview and produce the forms immediately or enter data at 
one time and print at another. 

The data entry is organized in a sequence very similar to manual tax preparation. If 
you're looking for a bargain, the Micro-Tax* system is it. . .and especially during 
the "Does it work . . . prove it to yourself . . . POST TAXSEASON SALE!" Go 
ahead . . . send in the order blank now and get ready for bigger profits in 1984. 



Mail to: MICRO-TAX Dept. 1B 

6203 Variel Avenue, Suite A 

Woodland Hills, California 91367 Phone (213) 704-7800 

Please send me the full federal system (Reg. $1000 ea.) 1982 Micro-Tax* 
personal computer tax preparation package (or integrated state program) 
checked below for $58 ea., Calif, residents add 6 1 /2% sales tax. 

□ Level 2, Professional Individual Package $58.00 

□ Level 3, Partnership/Corporate Package $58.00 

□ State Package $58.00 

Name of State Total. . . 

□ CP/M □ PC DOS □ MS DOS 

Make of your computer Disk size 

Name 

Street 

City, State, Zip 

Phone i ! 

Check for enclosed □ Visa □ MasterCharge 

CARD NO. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 

Card expiration date , , , 

Signature 

ORDER BY MAIL OR CHECK WITH YOUR LOCAL SOFTWARE DEALER 

306 BYTE July 1983 




1 AS5 



FULL FEDERAL 
MICRO-TAX- 
PERSONAL 
COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS 


< 

b 


t/i 

a 
ti 


1 

d 
so 
< 


98 


2 

Q 


S 


c 

ac 


-IE 


C 

CO 


u 


L 


ES 

-3- 


/ 


Vr> 


D 

CT1 


FORM 


3 INCH 

tor-lorji 


JC 


EC 


) 

->csz 

\lO 


IE 


•Ji 


PF 

| 

o 

o 


III 

□ 

Cl. 

H 

CD 


ITS 


Level 2, Professional/ 
Individual Package 


• 


















































Level 3. Partnership/ 
Corporate Package 




• 






• 


• 
















• 




• • 




















•17 Integrated State Returns Available • Orders taken 
• Forms subject to IRS changes lor 1983 tax year 


or yearly update packages 



MICROCOMPUTER TAXSYSTEMS, INC. 

6203 Variel Avenue, Suite A 

Woodland Hills, California 91367 Phone (213) 704-7800 

'C/PM, trademark of Digital Research. 'Micro-Tax, trademark of Microcomputer Taxsys- 
tems, Inc. 'MS DOS. Trademark of Microsoft Corporation. "IBM. IBM PC. IBM PERSONAL 
COMPUTER. IBM XT, trademarks of IBM, 'Apple, trademark of Apple. 

Circle 279 on inquiry card. 






(la) 



SI 


2B21 


SP 


OOOA 


ss 


0300 



hL 



(lb) 






Dl 


2B21 


SI 


3C44 


SP 


OOOE 


ss 


0300 



3012 
3010 
300E 
300C 
300A 
3008 
3006 
3004 
3002 
3000 



3012 
3010 

»300E 
300C 
300A 
3008 
3006 
3004 
3002 

• 3000 



F E 


4 2 





E 3 


3 3 


D 


4 4 


3 C 


2 1 


2 B 


9 3 


1 1 


6 2 


c c 


5 2 


3 8 


3 A 


2 A 


B E 


A 4 




F E 


4 2 





E 3 


3 3 


D 


4 4 


3 C 


2 1 


2 B 


9 3 


1 1 


6 2 


C C 


5 2 


3 8 


3 A 


2 A 


B E 


A 4 






TOP OF STACK 

CONTENTS OF 
STACK AFTER 
PUSH SI 



TOP OF STACK 



CONTENTS OF 
STACK AFTER 
POP Dl 
POP SI 



Figure 1: PUSH and POP on the 8086. Given that the stack pointer (SP) points to loca- 
tion 3008 hexadecimal, figure la shows the status of the processor after the execution of 
PUSH SI. Figure lb shows the processor after the additional instructions POP Dl and 
POP SI are executed. In stack operation, the PUSH instruction decrements the stack 
pointer by 2 and then writes the word on the stack. The POP instruction reads the word 
from the stack and then increments the stack pointer by 2. Words are written low byte 
first. Note also that the SS register does not point to the "bottom" of the stack. 



register is loaded immediately follow- 
ing the loading of the SS register. 
(You should follow this example in 
your 8086 programming.) The 8086 
disables interrupts for one instruction 
following any move into the SS 
register. If you follow these steps, the 
stack will not be pointed to incorrect- 
ly in case an interrupt occurs. Most 
segment setups would be done in a 
small program by itself, like the ex- 
ample, and that program would jump 
to the beginning of the actual code. 
Therefore, programs can be loaded 
anywhere in memory. 

The instructions PUSH and POP 
can also be used to save and restore 
segment registers, as well as make 
them point to the same location. For 
example, to make the ES register 
point to the same memory area as the 
DS register, you could do this: 

PUSH DS 
POP ES 



Also recall from part 1 that the low 
byte of the 8086 flag register is a bit- 
for-bit copy of the 8080 flag register. 
In addition, the 8086 allows easy con- 
version of 8080 assembler code to 
8086 assembler code. To accommo- 
date some of the instructions that af- 
fect flags differently, LAHF and 
SAHF are provided. The LAHF in- 
struction loads the lower byte of the 
flags into the AH register, and the 
SAHF instruction stores the AH reg- 
ister into the flag register's lower 
byte. Figure 3 depicts this operation. 

Figure 4 illustrates how the 8086 
registers are used by conversion pro- 
grams. For example, the 8080 instruc- 
tion DCX D decrements register pair 
DE but does not affect the flags. By 
contrast, the 8086 equivalent DCR 



MOV AX.2000 
MOV DS.AX 
MOV AX.6534 
MOV SS.AX 
MOV SP.0200 
JMP BEGIN 



;Most significant 16 bits 
;of data area in DS 
;Same for stack 
;Follow move to SS with 
;move to SP 

;This will load CS and IP 
;with the start of first 
Instruction 



BEGIN (CS:IP) » 

SP 

SS 



DS- 



CODE 



STACK 



DATA 



HIGH 
MEMORY 



FC200 
65540 
65340 

20000 

LOW 
MEMORY 



Figure 2: This is an example of segment- 
register initialization. The SP register 
should be loaded directly after the SS 
register to make sure that the stack is 
pointed to correctly. 



DX instruction does affect the flags. 
A conversion program would change 
the 8080 DCX D instruction to an 
LAHF, followed by a DCR DX and 
then an SAHF. When this new assem- 
bler code is reassembled with an 8086 
assembler and run on an 8086 system, 
the flags would appear unaffected 
after execution of these three instruc- 
tions. 

To deal with I/O devices, you 
could address them like memory 
devices and use MOV instructions to 
transfer data to and from them. But 
this would detract from the 1 mega- 
byte of available memory space. 













8080 FLAGS 






1 1 1 lor 


DF 


IF 


TF 


SF 


ZF 




AF 


|PF| 


CF 



The XCHG (exchange) instruction 
swaps the contents of the two oper- 
ands, which can be general registers 
or memory contents (but both cannot 
be memory contents). Furthermore, 
XCHG cannot specify a segment 
register as an operand. 



SF 


ZF 




AF 




PF 


1 cp | | | | | 









8086 ACCUMULATOR 



Figure 3: LAHF loads the AH register with the low byte of the flags, and SAHF loads the 
low byte of the flag register with the contents of AH. These instructions are included in 
the 8086 instruction set to accommodate conversion programs from 8080 to 8086. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publication. Inc 307 



8086 

AX 
BX 
CX 
DX 



GENERAL REGISTERS 
DATA GROUP 
7 017 i 



AH 


AL 


BH 


BL 


CH 


CL 


DH 


DL 





15 


POINTER AND 
INDEX GROUP 





SP 




BP 




SI 




Dl 





8080/8085 

A 
HL 
BC 
DE 



SP 



SEGMENT REGISTERS 
IS 



CS 
DS 
SS 
ES 



IP 

F 



PC 

S.Z.AC.P.CY 

FLAGS 



Figure 4: Shown is the 8080/8085 register 
subset of the 8086. The nonshaded 
registers are those used by conversion 
programs when converting programs 
from the 8080 to the 8086. 



Therefore, provided in the 8086 in- 
struction set are the IN and OUT in- 
structions, which give I/O devices 
their own special addressing space 
separate from memory. 

You call each address a port to 
clarify the difference between mem- 
ory addresses and I/O device ad- 
dresses. The IN and OUT instructions 
let you talk to 65,536 ports. The AL 
register transfers bytes using the up- 
per or lower 8 bits of the data bus. 
The AX register transfers words that 
occupy the entire 16-bit data bus and 
take two consecutive port locations. 
You can use only these registers to do 
transfers with these instructions. No 
segment register is used in port ad- 
dressing, and a special 8086 pin 
designates a memory access or an 
IN/OUT instruction port access. 

The two types of IN/OUT instruc- 
tions are direct and indirect. The 
direct instructions supply a 1-byte 
port address. This gives you the 
capability to access ports at I/O ad- 
dresses through 255. The indirect 
instructions employ the DX register 
to hold the port address of the I/O 
device. Using DX gives you the 
capability of addressing the 65,536 



ports. The ability to manipulate DX 
with arithmetic instructions enables 
you to communicate with several 
consecutive I/O ports. The IN/OUT 
instructions are the only instructions 
that use the DX register as a pointer. 

The address-object data-transfer 
instructions (LEA, LDS, and LES) 
load addresses into registers. How- 
ever, the source operand must be in 
memory, and the destination must be 
a general register. The LEA (load ef- 
fective address) instruction loads a 
general register with the offset of a 
variable instead of its contents. 
Because you can use the memory ad- 
dressing modes, you could have the 
sum of calculations made on a base 
register and an index register with a 
given displacement. Instructions LDS 
(load pointer into DS) and LES (load 
pointer into ES) load a general 
register and either the DS or ES 
register with a 32-bit pointer found in 
two consecutive memory words. 
String operations and procedures 
make use of LDS and LES to set up 
pointers to a working area. 

Often you need to translate data in 
a computer from one form to 
another, for example, converting 
ASCII to EBCDIC, Fahrenheit to 
Celsius temperature, etc. Included in 
the 8086 instruction set is a translate 
instruction, XLAT, which simplifies 



:This program will input a value from 

;a keypad at port 0100 and convert the 

;values from 0-F to the ASCII representation 

;of that value 

LEA BX.TABLE ;Offset of table in BX 

MOV DX.0100 ;DX contains port 

;number 
IN AL.DX ;Get data from keypad 

;using indirect INput 
XLAT ;Using data input to AL 

;as displacement get 

ASCII data and place 

;back in AL 



the job. XLAT replaces a byte of data 
in AL with a byte from a table. The 
table starting location is pointed at by 
the BX register, and the contents of 
AL are the displacement into the 
table. Figure 5 describes an example 
program with a diagram of how the 
XLAT instruction works. You load 
BX, using the LEA instruction, with 
the starting location of the table and 
the DX register with the port address 
to input the data. The data brought in 
is then translated to the data needed. 

Arithmetic Instructions 

The 8086 arithmetic instructions, 
as listed in table 3, can operate on 
signed numbers, where the most sig- 
nificant bit represents whether the 
number is a two's-complement neg- 
ative or positive, unsigned numbers, 
and decimal numbers. Most arith- 
metic instructions affect the flags as 
follows: 

CF (Carry flag): If set, indicates a 
carry out of, or a borrow into, the 
high-order bit of the result. 
AF (Auxiliary Carry flag): If set, in- 
dicates a carry out of, or a borrow in- 
to, the low-order half-byte of the 
result. It is used for the decimal- 
adjustment instructions. 
SF (Sign flag): This flag is a copy of 
the most significant bit of the result. 





3 












BX ! 


3 


1 


1 


AL 


3 


2 


2 


I 


3 


3 


3 




3 


4 


4 






AH AL 


3 


5 


5 




3 


6 


6 




3 


7 


7 




3 


8 


8 




3 


9 


9 




4 


1 


A 




4 


2 


B 




4 


3 


C 




4 


4 


D 




4 


5 


E 




4 


6 


F 




P 


p 


10 




p 


p 


11 



Figure 5: This program uses the XLAT instruction to convert a single hexadecimal digit 
to its ASCII equivalent (e.g., to convert the value 04 into 34 hexadecimal, which is the 
ASCII code for the character "4"). XLAT uses the contents of the AL register as a 
displacement into a lookup table pointed to by the BX register. The contents of the loca- 
tion then replace the contents of the AL register. The values in the table are in hexa- 
decimal. 



308 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



i 



I 



It's True -We Did It I 

We have met or have beaten most advertised prices. 

Don't be foolish. Buy Direct! 




HORIZON 

• Multi User System 

• Z80A Operating System 

• S-100 Bus 

• 5Mb-18Mb Hard Disc Available 
Super Super Super $2,495.00 



NORTHSTAR 

ADVANTAGE 

• 64K, Z80A Operating 
System 

• 2 Quad Capacity Floppy 
Drives 

• Business Graphics 
Software 

• 12" Green Phosphorus 
Screen 

• Bit Mapped Graphics 

• 6 I/O Business Slots 
Super Super Super $1,995.00 




• Proportional Spacing • t 

• 200 CPS Bi Directional ■ 

• Sheet Feed • Graphics 

Prism 80 W/Sprint 

Prism 80 Loaded W/Color 

Prism 132 W/Sprint 

Prism 132 Loaded W/Color 

Colortext for IDS 



IDS 



Character Styles 
Color Optional 

$899.00 
$1,239.00 
$1,039.00 
$1,395.00 

$104.00 




GTC 



• VT 100 Look Alike Keyboard 

• Programmable Function Keys 

• Printer Port Split Screen Capability 

GTCSW10 $659.00 

GTC 100A $689.00 

GTC SW80 $795.00 



i 




ALTOS 

ZENITH 

TELEVIDEO 

SANYO 



FRANKLIN 


OMNITEC 


TAXAN 


OKIDATA 


GTC 


HAYES 


VENTEL 


DIABLO 


OSBORNE 


ADDS 


NOVATION 


AMDEK , 


NEC 


COMREX 


DEC 


UDS 


BMC 


EPSON 


DAISYWRITER 


MANY OTHERS 



For Price Quotes and Ordering Call: 

1-800-328-8905 



For Technical Information and 
Arizona Orders Call: 

602-949-8218 

411 South Madison 

Tempe, Arizona 85282 

(Mail Order Only) 




LIBERTY | 

COMPUTER SALES 



Everything in 
computer related 
products: 

• Computers 

• Modems 

• Printers 

• Software 

• Monitors 

• Terminals 

• Accessories 

• Paper 

• Ribbons 

• Diskettes 

• Office Furniture 



Prices listed reflect a cash discount and are subject to change without notice. We welcome Certified and Cashiers Checks, Bank Wires and Money Orders. Allow 2 to 3 weeks for personal checks to 
clear Product is subject to availability Equipment is in factory sealed boxes with manufacturer's warranty There will be a restocking charge for returned merchandise Call first for an 
RMA number Software not waranteed for suitability. Mo return of Software which has been opened Add 2% for shipping charges (minimum S2.50}. 
Z80A is a registered trademark of Zilog, Inc. C|rc|e ^ on |nqu|ry card 






Circle 205 on Inquiry card. 



Main/Frames 



1 30 Models of Enclosures 

1 Assembled and tested 

1 Quasi Coax Motherboards 

1 Power Supply 

1 Card cage and guides 

• Fan. line, cord, (use. power 
& reset switches 




8" Floppy Main/Frame 

$482 




8" Disc Enclosure 



Phase/80 8" Floppy Mainframe 




Phase/80 Desk + Mainframe | 

Write or call for our 

brochure which includes our 

application note: 

"Building Computers — 

A Recipe" 

INrEGR4.ND 

8620 Roosevelt Ave •Visalia.CA 93291 

209651-1203 

We accept BankAmericard/Visa 
and MasterCharge 



Mnemonic 


Description of Operation 


ADD dest, source 


Add byte or word 


ADC dest, source 


Add byte or word with carry 


SUB dest, source 


Subtract byte or word 


SBB dest, source 


Subtract byte or word with borrow 


INC dest 


Increment byte or word by 1 


DEC dest 


Decrement byte or word by 1 


NEG dest 


Negate byte or word (two's complement) 


CMP dest, source 


Compare byte or word 


MUL source 


Multiply byte or word unsigned 


IMUL source 


Integer multiply byte or word 


DIV source 


Divide byte or word unsigned 


IDIV source 


Integer divide byte or word 


CBW 


Convert byte to word 


CWD 


Convert word to double word 


DAA 


Decimal adjust for addition 


DAS 


Decimal adjust for subtraction 


AAA 


ASCII adjust for addition 


AAS 


ASCII adjust for subtraction 


AAM 


ASCII adjust for multiplication 


AAD 


ASCII adjust for division 


Table 3: The 8086 arithmetic instructions operate on signed, unsigned, and binary- 


coded-decimal numbers. 





ZF (Zero flag): This flag is set if the 

result is equal to 0. 

PF (Parity flag): This flag is set if the 

low-order 8 bits of the result contain 

an even number of Is. It is kept in the 

8086 for 8080 compatibility. 

OF (Overflow flag): This flag is set if 

the result is too large a positive or too 

small a negative value to fit into the 

destination without changing the sign 

incorrectly. 

The ADD (add), ADC (add with 
carry), SUB (subtract), and SBB (sub- 
tract with borrow) instructions are 
the standard addition and subtraction 
instructions that add and subtract 
bytes or words for multiple precision. 
Any general register, memory loca- 
tion, or immediate data can be the 
source added with, or subtracted 
from, the destination, with the result 
placed back in memory or in a 
general register designated as the 
destination. 

Instructions INC (increment) and 
DEC (decrement) have only one 
operand, which can be a general 
register or memory contents; they are 
the same as adding or subtracting 1, 
but with no effect on carry. 

Instruction NEG (negate) subtracts 
the operand from 0. This is the same 
as taking the two's complement of a 
number, i.e., changing it from 



positive to negative. If the byte to be 
negated is equal to —128 (80 hexa- 
decimal) or the word is —32,768 
(8000 hexadecimal), then the result 
shows no change, but the Overflow 
flag is set. 

Instruction CMP (compare) is the 
same as SUB except that the result is 
not placed anywhere. Instead, the 
flags reflect the same result as if a sub- 
traction had taken place. After a 
CMP operation has been performed, 
you would use a conditional jump, 
which checks the flags to determine 
whether the destination operand is 
larger, smaller, or equal to the 
source. 

With earlier microprocessors, pro- 
grammers had to write or use algo- 
rithms, or miniprograms, to perform 
a function, in order to perform multi- 
plication and division. The 8086 has 
multiply and divide instructions built 
into its instruction set to make pro- 
gramming easier. 

The multiply and divide instruc- 
tions employ dedicated registers for 
their destination register, as shown in 
figure 6. To multiply by a byte, the 
AL register must hold one of the 
operands, with the result placed in 
AX. AX is used to hold the result 
because it may be larger than one 
byte can hold. To multiply by a 
word, you would use the AX register 



310 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



THIS IS ALL 
IT TAKES 
TO RUN 
OUR HARD DISK. 




Compatibility. A lot of 
manufacturers talk about it. 
Mostly, compatibility is defined 
as something that almost works 
like the original. Our hard disk 
sub-system for the IBM PC runs 
on 2.0 without modifications, 
patches or use of device 
drivers. Just boot 2.0 and run. 

And we haven't cut back on 
reliability either. The Apparat 
hard disk uses the Xebec 
controller and connects via a 
host interface module to one of 
the slots in your PC. The HIM 
also contains an RS-232 serial 



async port for use with a 
mouse, modem, etc. Even with 
compatibility and reliability 
built in, we've managed to 
provide some very competitive 
pricing. The 10 and 30 
megabyte drives are priced at 
$1,995 and $3,395 respectively. 
When you use a multifunction 
RAM Card, such as the Apparat 
Combo II (with up to 512K of 
RAM, RS232, parallel printer, 
clock calendar, and game 
adapter) along with the HIM, 
floppy disk controller and CRT 
monitor adapter cards in your 



PC, you still have one slot 
available for future expansion. 

If you're considering a fixed 
disk for your IBM PC, look at all 
the systems available. Look for 
compatibility. Look for 
reliability. Look for value. We 
think you'll pick ours. 

For more information or to 
order yours call 800/525-7674 
or write Apparat, Inc., 4401 S. 
Tamarac Parkway, Denver, CO 
80237, 303/741-1778. 

IBM PC Is a registered trademark of International 

Business Machine Corp. 

Prices and specifications subject to change without 

notice. 



Apparat, Inc. 



Circle 28 on inquiry card. 



Circle 56 on Inquiry card. 




GET RID 
OF YOUR 
TYPEWRITERS! 



KWIC-KEY # K 



WORKS LIKE MAGIC TO 
TURN YOUR S7000 WORD 
PROCESSOR INTO A S500 
ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER. 



Envelopes 

Preprinted forms 

Quick notes, index 

cards, etc. 

Ail those typed documents 

your word processor 

can't handle 



Connects your CRT 
keyboard directly to 
your printer and 
makes full use of 
specialty printer 
features. 




ONE KEYWORD PROCESSING 

on your TELE VIDEO 



with WORDSTAR 
f 



282 



and . 




s 99 



95 



Mastercard 
Visa 



■ Nu Key Automates the 36 most 
commonly used word processing functions 

■ Reduces learning time while increasing 
operator speed 

■ For beginners and Wordstar experts 

■ Comes complete with 14 new matching 
keycaps 

For your TELEVIDEO MO.TS-800,TS 800A, and TS 802 
PLEASE SEND WORDSTAR SERIAL NUMBER TO: 

Business Solutions, Inc. 
91 W. Long Lake Rd., Suite 9 
Bloomfield Hills, Ml 48013 
(313)540-3360 

CPIM '■' OF DIGITAL RESEARCH/TELEVIDEO £ TELESOLUTIONS " 
OF TELEVIDEO/ WORDS TAR "■' OF MICROPRO INTERNATIONAL/ 
NuKeV £ KWJC-KEY "■' OF BUSINESS SOLUTIONS, INC 





B-BI 


T 

1 

| SOURCE 




16 


-BIT 


| AL 


r~* 


AX | 






* 1 


* LZ 


1 SOU 










1 

8-BIT 






j AX 


1 DX | 


AX 










c 


AL | 


R | AH | 




SOURCF 














\ 






1 1 


) 1 AX 


1 


















1 AX | R | 


DX | 


SOURCE 








\ 








LZ 


ill ox 


1 AX | 












;This 


orogram will 


perform the formula 






;AX = 


(BH x BL) 


+ (CH/CL) with 






;BH = 


= FB(-5), BL = 


FE(-2) 






;CH = 


= EC (-20), 


andCL = 05 ( + 5) 






MOV 


AL.BH 


;AX 


= ??FB— note only AL loaded 




IMUL 


BL 


;AX 


= 000A(+10) = - 


•5 X -2 




MOV 


DX.AX 


;Temporary save result 






MOV 


AL.CH 


;AX 


= 00EC(-20) 






CBW 




;AX 


= FFEC — converted to word 




IDIV 


CL 


;AX 


= 00FC(-4) in AL 






CBW 




;AX 


= FFFC — converted to word 




ADD 


AX.DX 


;AX 


= 0006 ( + 6) 





Figure 6: The 8086 multiply and divide instructions use dedicated registers for one of the 
operands and to hold the results of the operation. 



to hold one of the operands, with the 
double-word result placed in registers 
DX,AX and the most significant word 
in DX. Division operates the op- 
posite, with the double-word divisor 
in DX,AX for division by a word, the 
quotient in AX, and the remainder in 
DX. Byte division places the divisor 
in AX, the quotient in AL, and the re- 
mainder in AH. The source operand 
specified in the instruction can be a 
general register or memory location 
using the addressing modes, but you 
cannot use immediate data. 

Two types of multiply and divide 
instructions are available: MUL 
(multiply) and DIV (divide) for un- 
signed and IMUL (integer multiply) 
and IDIV (integer divide) for signed. 
Because the results are different for 
signed and unsigned, i.e., a negative 
times a negative is a positive, these 
four operations are included to cover 
each type. 

The flags react differently for 
multiplication and division than they 
do for other arithmetic operations. 
For multiplication instructions, status 
flags CF and OF are set if the upper 
half of the result (AH for byte or DX 
for word) contains part of the result. 
This means that AH or DX is nonzero 



for unsigned or not just the sign ex- 
tension of the lower half of the result 
for signed. The remaining status flags 
are undefined after a multiplication, 
and all the status flags are undefined 
after a division. 

If a division result has more bits 
than the quotient (it can't fit in the AL 
register for a byte or in the AX 
register for a word), an automatic 
type interrupt is generated. The 
quotient is undefined when this inter- 
rupt occurs. This saves you from 
checking the operands to be divided 
so that a division by or dividing a 
very large number by 1 will not oc- 
cur. 

If the two operands do not evenly 
divide, then the quotient is rounded 
toward 0, and the remainder has the 
same sign as the quotient. In other 
words, if you divide a — 5 by 2, then 
the quotient is —2 with a remainder 
of —1; likewise, dividing 5 by 2 
equals 2 with a remainder of 1. 

Division works fine after a multi- 
plication because the AX or DX,AX 
registers contain the operands needed 
to divide by a byte or a word. But if 
you need to divide a byte by a byte or 
a word by a word, you begin to have 
problems. If you are using unsigned 



312 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



It's a jungle out there. 

Star's new software systems can improve 
your odds in the struggle for survival. 



Recently, we did something 
very rare in the software 
industry. 

We listened to what distribu- 
tors, retailers and hardware 
manufacturers had to say about 
the confusing tangle of misin- 
formation facing them. Not to 
mention the poor consumer. 



And we responded. By completely revising some of our most popular software 
systems. To make them even more popular. And even easier to sell. 

The Enhanced Star Integrated Accounting System. We've made many changes to our 
best selling system. Including the ability to handle all the new payroll deductions. Depart- 
mentalized sales analysis and purchasing analysis. Plus adding the facility 
to handle an unlimited number of General Ledger accounts. And a lot more. 

The Star Legal Billing System. Revised to accept both CP/M-86** and MS DOS®** 
compatible hardware-plus CP/M* MP/M*and PC DOS*** systems. 

The Star Property Management System. Now revised to even handle commercial property. 

The Accounting Partner™ A complete accounting system, specially designed for 
businesses with sales up to $5 million* 

To make our C Basic software systems even more popular with consumers, we designed 
them fully compiled. Easy for both people and machines to understand. And compatible 
with both 8-bit and 16-bit micros to work with more of the machines on the market. 

We even designed a whole new package for software dealers 
and distributors. With totally new documentation and demonstration 
programs. New self-training guides and sales support materials. 
Superior end-user support agreements. And a brand new 
pricing and credit policy. _^ 

For the full story, call Star Software Systems. fc^CS) / A) / ^^^y^Z 

And improve your odds of making it in C^» \2J~~jQ/^ r^\ 

the jungle. ^r . -w\ Sl/v^y // 





r +ISTAR SOFTWARE SYSTEMS 

■ 20600 Gramercy Place, Toirance, California 90501 / [213) 538-2511 



*CP/M-86 f , CPM and MF/M are all registered trademarks of Digital Research, Inc. **MS DOS* is a registered trademark of Microsoft, Inc. 
•"PC DOS is a registered trademark of IBM* Handles totals up to $999,999,999.99 



Circle 384 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 313 



CP/M givesyou a new world of PC power 




...fbra new low price 



Now, for just $60, you can have the world's most popular 
operating system for your IBM® PC. Only $60 for instant 
access to the largest collection of applications software in 
existence— literally hundreds of proven, professional soft- 
ware programs for every business and educational need. 

New highs in productivity. 

New enhanced CP/M-86® comes with print spooling, an 

exclusive feature that increases the work power of your 

IBM PC like no other operating system can. With print 

spooling you can print documents and run applications 

programs at the same time. And, for the ultimate in 

efficiency, all CP/M-86 programs are upward-compatible 

to Concurrent CP/M™ the productivity breakthrough 

that lets your PC run as many as four different 

programs simultaneously' 

New high-performance graphics. 

Another unique advantage of enhanced 
CP/M-86 is GSX,™ the new graphics 
extension that allows CP/M to operate 



DIGITAL 
RESEARCH 



This lets you choose from a growing array of exciting, 
sophisticated graphics applications packages which run 
under the widely-accepted GSX standard. 
Great high-level languages. 

For programming under CP/M, Digital Research offers 
the most complete selection of professional-quality 
languages and utilities for the IBM PC: CBASIC® and 
CBASIC Compiler,™ Pascal/MT+,™ CIS™ and Level 
II COBOL,™ "C PL/I, DR Logo™ and more. 
High time to buy! 

Before now, you'd pay $250 for CP/M-86 and another 

$75 for GSX. That's what makes new enhanced CP/M-86 

such a terrific value. At $60 it puts PC Power within 

reach of any budget! You'll find this enhanced 

CP/M-86 value in The CP/M Library,™ a selection 

of the finest in CP/M software for your IBM 

PC. Look for it today at your IBM PC 

dealer. Or contact Digital Research Inc., 

(408) 649-5500, 160 Central Avenue, 



the latest graphics hardware devices. The best of everything in software. Pacific Grove, CA 93950. 

IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines, Corp. CIS and Level II COBOL are trademarks of Micro Focus, Ltd. The logo and tagline, CP/M, 
CP/M-86, Concurrent CP/M, GSX, CBASIC, CBASIC Compiler, Pascal/MT+ , DR Logo and The CP/M Library are either trademarks or registered trademarks 
of Digital Research Inc. © 1983, Digital Research Inc. 

Circle 143 on inquiry card. 



division, then AH or DX is zeroed 
before the division to extend the divi- 
dend to the proper size. Signed divi- 
sion is a different story. If the number 
you're dividing by is positive, then 
AH or DX has to be zeroed; if the 
number you're dividing by is 
negative, then AH or DX has to be all 
Is to get the proper word or double 
word. 

Added to the instruction set are 
two instructions, CBW (convert byte 
to word) and CWD (convert word to 
double word), to take care of this 
decision making. Instruction CBW 
extends the sign of the AL register to 
the AH register, which effectively 
converts a byte to a word. Instruction 
CWD extends the sign of the AX 
register to the DX register or converts 
a word to a double word. Neither in- 
struction affects the flags. The sample 
program in figure 6 demonstrates 
how signed multiplication and divi- 
sion operate with the contents of the 
AX register. Notice that CBW and 
CWD are not reserved only for divi- 
sion. In the program, CBW is used a 
second time to extend the sign of the 
byte in the AL register so that you can 
add the DX register to the AX 
register. If this wasn't done, the result 
would be 0106 hexadecimal instead of 
0006 hexadecimal. 

The 8086 can also perform decimal 
arithmetic. These numbers can be 
packed BCD (binary-coded decimal) 
numbers for addition or subtraction 
or unpacked BCD numbers for addi- 
tion, subtraction, multiplication, or 
division. Packed BCD numbers are 
two BCD digits, hexadecimal repre- 
sentations of 0-9, contained in one 
byte. Unpacked BCD numbers con- 
tain one BCD digit in the lower half- 
byte with the upper half -byte zeroed. 
Unpacked BCD numbers are similar 
to the ASCII (American National 
Standard Code for Information Inter- 
change) representations of numbers, 
except that ASCII numbers have a 
hexadecimal 3 in their upper half -byte 
instead of 0. To use ASCII numbers 
as unpacked BCD numbers, you must 
zero the upper half -byte and then set 
the upper half-byte to a hexadecimal 
3 after the arithmetic operation and 
adjustment to get a valid ASCII 
number again. 



5V4" 



FLOPPY DISK DRIVES - 8" 

QUME 

242 - Half height DSDD 48TPI 

842 - Full size DSQD 48TPI 

TANDON 

TM-848-2 - Half height DSDD 48TPI 

MITSUBISHI 

M-2894 - Full height DSDD 48TPI 

M-2896 - Half height DSDD 48TPI 

FLOPPY DISK DRIVES 
QUME 

142 - Half height DSDD 48TPI 
542 - Full size DSDD 48TPI 
592 - Full size DSDD 96TPI 
REMEX 

RFD-480 - Two-thirds height DSDD 48 ; 
RFD-960 - Two-thirds height DSDD 9i 
(IBM compatible; full-height face plate' 
option available, N/C; 6-month warranty] 

TANDON 

TM-100-2 - Full size DSDD 48TPI 
TM-100-4 - Full size DSDD 96TR, 
(For the IBM PC) 

MITSUBISHI 

M-4853 - Half height DSDD 
M-4854 - Half height DSDD 

WINCHESTER HA 
AMPEX 

Pyxis 7 - 5V4" 7MB cap. 
Pyxis 13 - 5Va" 13MB 
Pyxis 27 - 5Va" 27MB 
* * * 1 year warranty 

WINCHESTE 

MEDIA DISTR 

MD-10 - 11MB ca 
MD-20 - 22MB q 
(For Z-80, CP/M 

TERMINAL 4 
ADDS VI 
AMPEX 

D-125 GreerT 
D-150 Grei 
D-175 Gr« 
(Amber p^^ 

QUM^^^ 

QVT-1M een 

QVT-ltg 

QVT^ 

PRINTE- 

Q»E ^ 

Spri^ |§£J 

OKID 

MONITORS 
TAXAN 

KG-12N-U 12" Green phosphor hi-res. 
KG-12N-UY 12" Amber phosphor hi-res. 
RGBVISION-I 12" RGB color medium-res 
RGBVISION-III 12" RGB color hi-res. 



/UEDIK DISTRIBUTING 




PRICE QTY. ONE 

450.00 
465.00 



55.00 
365.00 



335.00 
395.00 




650.00 

795.00 

1225.00 



2695.00 
3595.00 



Call for prices 



499.00 
610.00 
625.00 



595.00 
749.00 
749.00 



1395.00 

Call for prices 



149.00 
159.00 
359.00 
629.00 



(408) 438-5454 

SUPPLIES AND ACCESSORIES ALSO AVAILABLE 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 

TERMS: COD, CASH WITH ORDER, MASTERCARD, VISA 

FREIGHT CHARGES WILL BE ADDED TO ALL ORDERS 



Circle 255 on inquiry card. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 315 





Mnemonic 


Description of Operation 


NOT dest 


"Not" byte or word (one's complement) 




AND dest, source 


"And" byte or word 




OR dest, source 


"Inclusive-OR" byte or word 




XOR dest, source 


"Exclusive-OR" byte or word 




TEST dest, source 


"Test" byte or word 




SHR dest, count 


Shift logical right byte or word 




SAR dest, count 


Shift arithmetic right byte or word 




SHL/SAL dest, count 


Shift left byte or word 




ROR dest, count 


Rotate right byte or word 




RCR dest, count 


Rotate through carry right byte or word 




ROL dest, count 


Rotate left byte or word 




RCL dest, count 


Rotate through carry left byte or word 


Table 4 


: These 8086 bit-manipuh 


ition instructions perform the logical operations as 


well as 


the shifts and rotations c 


f bytes or words in memory or registers. 



Called the decimal-adjust instruc- 
tions, DAA (decimal adjust for addi- 
tion) and DAS (decimal adjust for 
subtraction) work with packed BCD 
numbers. The DAA instruction ad- 
justs the contents of the AL register 
after the addition of two packed BCD 
numbers; the AL register must be the 
destination of the addition. The DAS 
instruction works the same way after 
the subtraction of two packed BCD 
numbers. All the status flags are up- 
dated, except for the OF flag, which is 
left undefined. 

The ASCII adjust instructions 
work with unpacked BCD numbers. 
Instruction AAA (ASCII adjust for 
addition) changes the contents of AL 
to a valid unpacked decimal number, 
with the upper half -byte zeroed, after 
the addition of two unpacked BCD 
numbers. Instruction AAS (ASCII 
adjust for subtraction) works the 
same for subtraction. The AF and CF 
flags are updated after these instruc- 
tions, but the remaining flags are left 
undefined. 

Instruction AAM (ASCII adjust for 
multiplication) corrects after the 
multiplication of two valid unpacked 
BCD numbers, with the result in AH 
and AL. After AAM, the high-order 
unpacked BCD number is in AH and 
the low-order unpacked BCD number 
is in AL. Status flags PF, SF, and ZF 
are updated after this instruction, but 
the remaining flags are left undefined. 
Instruction AAD (ASCII adjust for 
division) modifies the contents of the 
AL register before a division takes 

316 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



place. The flags are affected the same 
way as for AAM. However, you 
must do an AAD first to ensure that, 
after the division is done, the result is 
a valid unpacked BCD quotient and 
remainder. 

Bit-Manipulation Instructions 

Table 4 lists the 8086 bit-manipula- 
tion instructions. These instructions 
perform the logical operations as well 
as the shifts and rotations of bytes or 
words in memory or in registers. 

The logical instructions perform 
the Boolean operations. These opera- 
tions are NOT, AND, Inclusive-OR, 
and Exclusive-OR (XOR). You can 
use the AND instruction to clear or 
mask out certain bits, the OR instruc- 
tion to set certain bits, the XOR in- 
struction to complement certain bits, 
and the NOT instruction to comple- 
ment all the bits. The XOR instruc- 
tion can also clear a register simply 
by Exclusive OR-ing the register with 
itself (i.e., XOR SI,SI). 

The AND, OR, XOR, and TEST 
instructions affect the flags as 
follows: OF and CF are cleared; AF is 
undefined; SF, ZF, and PF reflect the 
result and can be tested by condi- 
tional jumps. The NOT instruction 
has no effect on the flags. 

The TEST instruction is a nonde- 
structive AND, which means it per- 
forms the AND operation but with no 
result. Only the flags are affected by 
this instruction. This lets you check 
for certain bits to be set or cleared in 
memory or in registers. For example, 



Here's where to find more 
printer for less. 



DIGITAL ENTRY SYSTEMS 

27 Spruce Street 

Waltham, Massachusetts 02154 

(617)899-6111 

GENERAL BUSINESS COMPUTERS 
2 North Olney Avenue 
Cherry Hill, New Jersey 08003 
(609) 424-6500 

GENERAL MICROCOMPUTER 
Georgetown Center 
52303 Emmons Road, No. 26 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 277-4972 

INTECH GROUP 
Royal Commerce Center 
2025 Royal Lane 
Dallas, Texas 75229 
(214)241-1717 

KALTRONICS 

702 Landwehr Road 

Northbrook, Illinois 60062 

(312)291-1220 

MICRO DISTRIBUTOR 
11794 Parklawn Drive 
Rockville, Maryland 20852 
(301 ) 468-6450 or (800) 638-6621 

MONROE DISTRIBUTOR, INC. 
2999 Payne Avenue 
Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
(216) 781-4600 

PARAGON SALES 
780 Charcot Avenue 
San Jose, California 95131 
(408) 263-7955 

PREMIER SOURCE 
18380 Enterprise Lane 
Huntington Beach, California 92648 
(714) 842-2208 

STAR DATA, INC. 

3031 E. Indian School Road 

Suite 16 

Phoenix, Arizona 85016 

(602) 955-9233 

SYSPRINT. INC. 

7777 South Central Expressway 

Suite 2A 

Richardson, Texas 75080 

(214) 669-3666 

TRANS ALASKA DATA 
SYSTEMS, INC. 
200 Center Court 
Anchorage, Alaska 99502 
(907) 561-1776 



TOSHIBA 



Toshiba's P1350. 

It's the three-in-one printer that 
gives you so much because it offers 
so many choices. 

Choose rapid-fire letter quality 
printing at 100 CPS. 

Or draft quality printing at 
speeds up to 192 CPS. 

And the P1350 prints graphics, too. 
It gives even more. 
More pins (24) in the printhead than 
anyone else for a 180-dot-per-inch 
density pattern with a single pass. 

More choices of pitches and char- 
acter fonts. 

Plus more reliability, more per- 
formance, and more paper feed 
options, including Toshiba's ultra - 



dependable automated sheet feeder. 
And asks very little. 

The suggested list price of Toshiba's 
spectacular three-in-one^ 
P1350 printer is just 
$2195, plus options of 
your choice. 

So find out how much 
you can get for so little. 
Write Toshiba America, 
Inc. today. 




Show me how you give 
so much for so little. 

Please send me more information on 
Toshiba's P1350 printer. 
Mail to: Toshiba America, Inc. 
nformation Systems Division 
2441 Michelle Drive, Tustin, CA 92680 
Or call toll free 1-800-457-7777 



CITY 



PHONE 



"NO OTHER PRINTER GIVES SO 
MUCH, YET ASKS SO LITTLE? 



'W 



TOM WATSON, golf professional 



MODEL 

PRINTING SPEED 

# OF PRINT 
HEAD PINS 

POPULAR FONTS 

CARRIAGE SIZE 
GRAPHICS 

PAPER FEED 

OPTIONS 

INTERFACES 

COMMAND SET 
COMPATIBLE WITH 



TOSHIBA 
P1350 

100 CPS - Letter Quality 
192 CPS - Draft Quality 



24 

Prestige Elite/ Courier 10/ 
Data Processing 

15" - 132 characters at 10 pitch 

Yes - 180 x 180 dots per inch 

Bi-directional Tractor 
Automatic Sheet Feeder 
(ultra reliable-sound dampening) 

Centronics (industry standard) 
RS-232C (industry standard) 

Qume Sprint S compatible 

IBM< DEC/ Apple/ and other microcomputers 



PRICE 



52195 




In Touch with Tomorrow 

TOSHIBA 



Forfurtherinformation,contact:InformationSystems Division TOSHIBA AMERICA, INC.,2441MichelleDrive,Tlistin,CA92680Phone:l-714-730-5000Telex: 183-812 

Circle 415 on inquiry card. 



Circle 53 on inquiry card. 

Introducing SPL 

the first multi-mode spooler 

for CP/M computers 

If you believed that your computer 
couldn't do better than a single task 
system think again. You can convert 
your machine into a dual-task computer 
with SPL, the amazing Spooler program 
developed by Blat R+D. SPL enables you 
to use hidden capacity available on your 
CP/M computer to print documents and 
run your ordinary programs, all at once. 

While printing, your regular 
programs won't stop 
processing, waiting for the 
printer to finish. SPL will store 
the information to be printed in 
internal or external (disk 
drives) memory until the printer is 
ready to receive the data. Result: 
your programs will run at full speed. 

As SPL can use up to the full 
capacity of your disks for temporary 
storage, it's much more powerful 
than hardware spoolers, which are 
limited to 64k memory or less. 

SPL is an advanced product with 
several modes of operation. In addition 
to intercepting the output to the printer, 
SPL can print your existing text files, or 
those that your programs will create from 
now on. SPL will even take care of tab 
expansion. As an added bonus, SPL 
needs no installation on most CP/M 2.x 
computers. 



If you have a computer 

Get A Second 
Computer 
FOR $139 




You could get an equivalent increase 
in computing power by spending $1000 
to $3000, but SPL is only $ 139, including 
disk and manual. 

To order your SPL program call us 
today specifying what disk format you 
require. You can charge it to your VISA 
or Master Card if you prefer. 
Blat Research+Development Corp. 
8016 188th SW, Edmonds WA 98020 
Call toll-free 1-800-LOBO-BAY 
In WA call [206] 771-1408 




Bible Research Systems 

«415 Burnet, Suite 208 

Austin, TX 78758 

(512)835-7981 



the worn 

processor 
$199.95 



, Al'fLE U ♦ . IBM-PC". TRS8MII or CT M 8 1T1.1J5ma.-k.. .-f APPLE. IBM. Uiviv. Dieted Reitsi.h C.:.rvxK3nc.r«) 



if you want to test a particular word 
in memory for a 1 in the most signifi- 
cant bit position, using the BX 
register to contain the offset of the 
location, the instruction would look 
like this: 

TEST [BX],8000 

If the most significant bit of the 
memory location tested is a 1, the 
Zero flag is cleared. On the other 
hand, the Zero flag is set if the most 
significant bit of the location tested is 
0. You could then use a conditional 
jump on the Zero flag to check for a 
certain bit, or group of bits, being set 
or cleared. You could program a 
jump on a zero condition to look for 
the cleared bit and a jump on a 
nonzero condition to look for the set 
bit. 

The shift and rotation instructions 
are shown in figure 7. Each of these 
instructions has two forms: single-bit 
and variable-bit. The single-bit shifts 
or rotations execute only one shift or 
rotation. The variable-bit shifts or 
rotations utilize the contents of the 
CL register to hold the variable shift 
or rotation count. Because CL is a 
byte register, you can do as many as 
255 shifts or rotations with one in- 
struction. The 8086 takes a copy of 
the CL register internally and 
decrements the copy so that the CL 
register contains the same data after 
the variable shift or rotation as it did 
before. 

The variable count itself does not 
affect the flags, but the instructions 
do. Flag CF contains the last bit 
shifted or rotated out. The OF flag is 
undefined after a variable shift or 
rotation and is set if the most signifi- 
cant bit changes in the single-bit 
form. Flag AF is undefined; flags PF, 
SF, and ZF are updated after a shift, 
but are not affected by rotations. 

The shift instructions have an add- 
ed capability besides manipulating 
bits as the rotation instructions do. 
Shift instructions allow a quick way 
to multiply and divide numbers by 
powers of 2. For signed operations, 
you would use the arithmetic shifts; 
for unsigned operations, the logical 
shifts. The SHR (shift right) instruc- 
tion shifts the operand right, filling in 



318 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 51 on inquiry card. 






wmm 



■ ■ ■ • 



/ 



^k^^^^^ry 



^A*-** 3 







•Now Available Nationwide! 



•Through Participating 
!.22MJ>UJJR_LAJiD Stores | 

t,r^ h l^i n + ?^ rir l ters wit h impressive specifications are introduced on an almost daily basis, only 
K,Si?rURlA rue - q + uallty ? f tf ?e Product. Over the past 2 years our customers have continued 
to buy the DS180 printer, not only because of its impressive performance and competitive price 
but also because of our outstanding track record for product reliability and customer support. 

We have continually improved on the performance of the DS180 by incorporating such 
K, n «i nC -^ ment * s a ! dot addr essable graphics, 6 user-selectable print sizes and a 2000 character 
buffer. These features coupled with 180 cps printing, parallel and serial interfaces, adjustable 
tractor feed and over 40 other programmable features, make the DS180 one of the most versa- 
tile matrix printers available today. 

Da?asouth y DS180 Ct y ° Ur " BXX Pr ' nter ' Why n0t take a '°° k at a time -P roven performer-the 
The DS180 printer is available nationwide through our network of sales/service distributors. 

^M*miMt^^.s~ s~^ f\W-^ Circle 132 on inquiry card. 

Q313©@llflUUl) computer corporation 

P.O. Box 240947 • Charlotte, NC 28224 • 704/523-8500 
Telex: 6843018 DASOU UW 



BEFORE 



C ! 



AFTER 



0- H 1000000000000010 [ — fi"l j |oioooooooooooooi| fo"] 

SHR Sl.l 



Q 



oooooooooooooio h —fil ! I lioooooooooooooi 1 fol 

SAR Sl.l 

c I c 

[TT H lioooooooooooooi \ — o • [TJ |ioooooooooooooio[ 

SHL Sl.l 

SAL Sl.l 



H oiooiioo i — L»|T| 



i looiooiiol [o] 

ROR BH.l 



U j oiooi ioo~| — »[T] — I 



[loiooiiol [o] 



rn*-* — joiooiioo] *-^ 

I — [7J* — |oiooiioo~fr -' 



RCR BH.l 



I 



[o] liooiioool 

ROL BH.l 



I 



i [o] I lOOllOOll 
RCL BH.l 



Figure 7: The shift and rotation instructions work on bytes or words. The two forms of 
shifts and rotations are single-bit, as shown, and a variable-bit form. 



Treat your personal computer to 
famous Diablo letter-quality printing. 




MTI has the new Diablo 630 API ready for you. 

Don't settle for less: up to 40 cps, your choice of over 200 metal- 
ized or plastic printwheels, in MIT's opinion the best letter-quality 
printer on the market today. And at MTI's best price. 
Whether you rent, buy or lease our equipment, you'll find MTI is the 
one source for all the terminals, peripherals, systems, applications 
expertise and service you'll ever need. At good prices. Call us today. 

New York: 516/621-6200, 212/767-0677, 518/449-5959 

Outside N.Y.S.: 800/645-6530 

New Jersey: 201/227-5552 

Ohio: 216/464-6688 



*QED" Discounts 
VISA & MasterCard 



mti 

systems corp. 



Diablo Authorized 



Distributor 



Applications Specialists & Distributors, New York, New Jersey and Ohio. 

DEC, Intel, Lear Siegler, Texas Instruments, Dataproducts, Diablo, 3Com, 

Hazeltine, Racal-Vadic, Digital Engineering, MICOM, Cipher, U.S. Design, 

Protocol Computers, MicroPro, Microsoft, Polygon and Select. 



on the left with 0s to divide unsigned 
numbers. In contrast, signed numbers 
need to retain the sign. Therefore, the 
SAR (shift arithmetic right) instruc- 
tion shifts in a 1 if the number is 
negative and a if the number is 
positive. This instruction performs 
the same as SHR, but instead of filling 
in with 0s, the sign bit is used to fill in 
on the left. 

The result from an SAR might not 
equal the result from an IDIV (integer 
divide) instruction, though. An IDIV 
rounds the number toward if it is 
not evenly divisible. An SAR instruc- 
tion, on the other hand, rounds a 
positive number toward and a 
negative number toward negative. In 
this case, dividing — 5 by 2 with IDIV 
yields —2; with SAR, it yields —3. 

To multiply by 2, both the SAL 
(shift arithmetic left) and SHL (shift 
left) arithmetic and logic instructions 
perform the same operation of shift- 
ing left and filling in on the right with 
0s. These two mnemonics suit the 
same instruction. This capability was 
provided for documentation pur- 
poses; it reminds you to check the 
Overflow flag for a signed operation. 
For example, if you shift left a byte 
value of 40 hexadecimal (64 decimal) 
using SHL/ SAL during an unsigned 
operation, the result (80 hexadecimal) 
is interpreted as 128 (decimal). But if 
you treat the number as signed, then 
the result is interpreted as an incor- 
rect — 128 (decimal). You might 
follow this instruction with a condi- 
tional jump on the Overflow flag if it 
is treated as a signed number. 

In this part, I introduced the 8086 
data-transfer instructions, arithmetic 
instructions, and logic instructions. I 
also described how the 8086 allows 
memory to be an operand, which 
makes programs easier to build and 
more compact. 

In part 3, I will finish the instruc- 
tion set discussion with the jumps, 
procedures, interrupts, string instruc- 
tions, and control instructions.! 

About the Author 

Stephen Heywood is an instructor with Intel 
Customer Training and is involved with 
preparation of the 8086 course. He can be con- 
tacted at Intel Corporation, 27 Industrial Ave. , 
Chelmsford, MA 01824. 



320 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 









Circle 287 on Inquiry card. 



(T) Adjustable 4" to 10" snap-on 
tractor feed. 4" to 10" friction 
feed, and fixed 10" pin platen 
(all standard). Fan-fold paper, cut 
sheets, roll paper, label, and pin- 
feed paper can be used. 

(7) Immediate tear-off. No more 
wasting valuable invoices and 
paper. 

(7) Clean, compact, reinkable black 
ribbon cassette. Low cost and 
easily replaceable. 

(T) User-replaceable 9 wire print 
head. 100 million character/life 
Print head driven by steel wire. 




RITEMAN: The first 10" printer 
you can fit in your briefcase. 



This new generation printer is half the 
size of an ordinary printer, measuring 
2 7/8" |h) x 10 9/16" (d) X 14" (w) 
and weighing 1 1 lbs. Built solid and 
reliable, Riteman prints at a remarkable 
120 cps, with bi-directional logic seek- 
ing, 63 1 pm, 100 msec line feed for 
faster line spacing and forms control, to 
maximize throughput. True 1:1 dot 
ratio enables Riteman to draw perfect 
circles. And best of all, Riteman's 
advanced technology and manufactur- 
ing have resulted in exceptional cost 
savings. 



For starters, Riteman has these features: 

9x9 dot matrix • Bi-direction • Number of 

print modes • Underlining • Programable line 

& forms feed • Parallel standard • Serial option 

• 32 block graphics • 96 ASCII characters with 

true descenders • Italics • Skip over perf. 

Dot addressable graphics: 

480 dots— Low res. graphics 

960 dots— High res. graphics 

576 dots— 1 : 1 graphics 

Compatible with most existing software 

For more information, ask your local 
computer dealer, or contact 
Inforunner Corporation 
1621 Stanford Street 
Santa Monica, CA 90404 
(213)453-6688 




RI7EIWI 

PERSONAL PRINTER 

Circle 201 on inquiry card. 




The 3 reasons 

why our software 

should cost you 

an arm and 

a leg... 

We are highly specialized and limit our produc- 
tion to only 7 categories: MANUFACTURER, 
WHOLESALER, DOCTORS, DENTISTS, 
CHURCHES, SCHOOLS AND FINANCIAL 
PACKAGES. 

Our distribution and service network blankets the 
nation and spans the globe. 
Our microcomputer software is so finely tuned 
and incredibly simple it will make your secreta 
into a computer wizard. 

These are the reasons why our software 
should cost you a lot, and they are precisely the 
reasons why It wont. . . 

1. Specialization increases quality but reduces 
research and development costs. 

2. Worldwide distribution increases volume and 
reduces unit costs. 

3. Simplicity increases effectiveness but reduces 
installation and operation costs. 

For complete information about the microcom- 
puter software that should cost you an arm and a 
leg, but doesnt, just send for our free brochure. It 
deals exclusively with your business or profession 
and it is written in very plain English. The brochure is 
free, and the postage is paid. 



DISTRIBUTOR AND DEALER 
INQUIRIES ARE WELCOME. 







INTERNATIONAL 
MICRO SYSTEMS 

6445 Metcalf . Shawnee Mission, KS 66202 
(913) 677-1137 



322 BYTE July 1983 



Circle 204 on inquiry card. 



User's Column 



Interstellar Drives, Osborne 

Accessories, DEDICATE/32, 

and Death Valley 



Though you won't see this until 
summer, it is being written in 
February, an absolutely frantic 
month at Chaos Manor. First, of 
course, April 15 is rapidly ap- 
proaching. Then too, this year, the 
newest novel by Niven and Pournelle 
had a March deadline. (Larry and I 
spent some time in Death Valley, 
where there are no telephones and no 
computers except for Adelle, my 
Otrona Attache, which we used to 
generate about 50,000 needed words.) 

Also, preparations were being 
made for the West Coast Computer 
Faire. 

The upshot is that although some 
hardware, and a ton of software, 
have arrived at Chaos Manor, there's 
not been as much testing of new stuff 
as I'd like, so this month's column 
will be a mixed bag. 

DBMS Explained 

More years ago than I care to 
remember I worked in the aerospace 
industry as a systems analyst. That's 
a strange job title: it means you don't 
necessarily know anything, but 
you're supposed to be a trouble- 
shooter, meaning that you're expect- 
ed to tool up on any subject at a mo- 
ment's notice. I can recall a time when 
I was an expert on inertial guidance 
systems, a subject about which I re- 
member nothing at all. 

I bring this up because I thought I 
was going to have to do it again: 
learn database management systems 
(DBMS), at least well enough to ex- 
plain the subject. Fortunately, before 



by Jerry Pournelle 

I put a lot of serious effort into the 
work, I discovered David Kruglin- 
ski's excellent Data Base Management 
Systems, a new book from Osborne/ 
McGraw-Hill. Reading this book may 
not make you an expert, but it'll sure 
teach you a lot about DBMS. 

The book has chapters on dBASE 
II, Condor, MDBS, FMS-80, and a 
couple of others. It also includes 
chapters on general aspects of the 
subject of database management. The 
book is well done. It begins at a 
reasonable level — an absolute novice 
at microcomputing would have to 
work pretty hard, but anyone moder- 
ately familiar with the subject will be 
okay. 

Databases come in three major 
flavors: hierarchical, network (or 
CODASYL— from the Conference 
on DAta SYstem languages, the peo- 
ple who brought you COBOL), and 
relational. Hierarchical and network 
databases have inherent structures 
built into the database itself. Given 
structured data they can be quite effi- 
cient, but there are also limitations in- 
herent in the system design. They 
tend to be very poor at handling ex- 
ceptional cases that don't quite fit the 
predesigned structure. 

Relational databases look like 
tables. There is no implied order to 
the data. If each row of the table is an 
employee record and each column is 
an item in that record (clock number, 
salary, hours worked last year, length 
of hair, age at last equinox, etc.), then 
the records can be ordered according 
to any column — or not ordered at all. 



All this and more is explained in 
Kruglinski's book, which also goes in- 
to what you can do with popular 
database management system pro- 
grams, and explains why you might 
want to pay several thousand dollars 
for MDBS. (He warns that if you 
aren't a programmer, the chapter on 
MDBS may be too technical, and that 
"While MDBS III may meet your 
needs, you will require the services of 
a programmer to evaluate and imple- 
ment it.") 

Anyone interested in database 
management systems should find this 
book interesting, and those about to 
buy such programs would be well ad- 
vised to read the book first. It could 
save you a lot of money. 

In addition, Jeff Cohen sent me a 
useful discourse on the subject. Alas, 
he sent it over the net, and it turns out 
there's at least one other person using 
the name JEFFC, so I haven't been 
able to thank him. If anyone who 
knows JEFFC@E.CC sees this, please 
convey my thanks and ask him to 
send me his address. 

Interstellar Drive 

First it was Warp Drive from Com- 
pupro. Then Semidisk. Then M- 
Drive/H and RAM Disk in the Sage. 
Now comes Pion's Interstellar Drive. 
One of these days I'll devise a suitable 
test for comparing these things. 

The Interstellar Drive differs from 
the others in that it's a separate box 
with its own power supply. In- 
terstellar Drives are available for the 
IBM PC, TRS-80, Apple, S-100, STD 



July 1983 © BYTE Publication! Inc 323 







For everyone who's tried 
to top the MX-80, bad news. 
We just did. 

Epson. 



The Epson MX-80 is the best-selling dot 
matrix impact printer in the world. It has 
been since its introduction. And despite the 
host of imitators it spawned, no one has 
been able to top it. Until now. 

FX-80: Son of a legend. 

The new Epson FX-80 is far more than just 
doo-dads added on to last year's model. It's 
the most astonishing collection of features 
ever assembled in a personal printer. 

For starters, it's fast: 160 CPS. And clean. 
All the print quality Epson is famous for in a 
tack-sharp 9x9 matrix. 

But that hardly scratches the surface. 
Create your own alphabet. 
With the new FX-80, you aren't limited to 
ASCII characters. You can create your own. 
Any character or symbol that can be defined 
in a 9x11 matrix can be added to the FX-80's 
already impressive library of type styles and 
stored in its integral 2K RAM. 

So you can create "Sally's Gothic" or 
"Tom's Roman" just by downloading and 
modifying standard characters. Or you can 
create a custom set from scratch. Either way, 
you can store up to 256 new characters. And 
if you don't need a new alphabet, the RAM 
functions as a 2K data input buffer. 
Who knows graphics better than Epson? 
Nobody, that's who. And if you don't 
believe it, witness the FX-80. 

With a 12K ROM capacity, the FX-80 gives 
you a few things the others don't. For exam- 
ple, not one, not two, but seven different dot 
addressable graphic modes are program 



selectable. And can be mixed in the same 
print line. Everything from 72 DPI (dots- 
per-inch) Plotter Graphics to the 640 dots 
per line resolution designed to match the 
remarkable monitor clarity of the Epson 
QX-10 personal computer. 

And that is in addition to an astonishing 
array of 136 different user-selectable type 
styles including Proportional, Elite and Italic 
as well as the more conventional faces you 
get on other printers. 

Hard-to-beat hardware. 

The FX-80 has all the hardware features 
you've come to know and love on the MX 
Series: logic seeking, bidirectional printing, 
the by-now-famous disposable printhead, 
and more. 

The FX-80 features an adjustable pin 
platen or optional friction/tractor feed, so 
you can use fanfold, roll or sheet paper . . . 
backwards or forwards. The FX-80 even 
gives you reverse paper feed. 

And if you're printing forms, the FX-80 
has a feature you're gonna love: a function 
that allows you to tear off the paper within 
one inch of the last print position. 

Be the first on your block. 

We'd be willing to bet that the FX-80 — like 
the MX-80 — will have its share of imitators. 
Don't be fooled. To make sure you get the 
genuine article, rush down to your local 
computer store right now and let them show 
you everything the FX-80 can do. 

And while you're there . . . ask them to 
show you how it works with our computers. 







EPSON 

EPSON AMERICA, INC. 

COMPUTER PRODUCTS DIVISION 



3415 Kashiwa Street 
Torrance, California 90505 
(213)539-9140. 
Outside California, phone 
(800) 421-5426 for the 
Epson dealer nearest you. 

Circle 162 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 325 



bus, and heaven knows what else. 
The box remains the same in each 
case; only the interface changes. Thus 
you can upgrade your system, or 
change it entirely, and still have the 
benefits of RAM disk or silicon disk. 
(We need a good untrademarked 
name for this kind of system. I used 
to call it pseudo disk, but that doesn't 
seem right. Any suggestions?) 

Interstellar Drive has battery back- 
up, which means that it's about as 
safe as disks themselves. Ours came 



with interfaces for the Apple and the 
S-100; Alex snarfed it off for Helen, 
his CCS S-100 machine, where it runs 
happily. I've been thinking about that 
battery backup, though, and I may 
grab it back; that's a pretty attractive 
feature. 

Those who've never tried a pseudo 
disk generally don't understand what 
all the excitement is about; but 
anyone who's used one will find it 
very hard to do without. These 
memory disks are so fast they're 



Collector "Edition 



BYTE COVERS 



The Byte covers shown below ire available as beautiful Collector Edition Prints. 
Each full color print is 11 in.x 14 in., includinga 1 l/2in. border, and is part of an 
edition strictly limited to 500 prints. Each print is faithfully reproduced from the 
original painting on museum quality acid-ftee paper, arid is personally inspected, 
signed and numbered by the artist, Robert Tinney. A Certificate of Authenticity 
accompanies each print attesting to its quality and limited number 



Collector Edition Prints are carefully packaged flat to avoid bending, and are 
shipped first class. The price of each print is (25. plus $3 per shipment for postage 
and handling ((8 overseas). The prints are also available as 4-print sets: Set 9-12. 
Set 13- 16, and Set 17-20. Each set costs {80, plus postage and handling 

To order your own favorite Byte cover as a beautiful Collector Edition Print, use 
the convenient coupon below. Visa or MasterCard orders may call 1-504-272-7266. 





#17 Winter Computing (25 #18 Seventeen Seventy-Six (25 #19 Crystal Ball (25 #20 Digital Am (25 






#13 Future Computers? (25 




#14 Smalltalk (25 




#15 Software (25 




# 16 Chip Building (25 





#9 Software Piracy (25 #10 Programming Route (25 #!1 Forth 





$25 #12 Future Past (25 



J Please send me the following Prints (125), or Sets ($80) O ■ "=•"* wOmi check or money order. 

IQTY. TITLE 4 PRINT NO. AMOUNT □ visa O MasterCard 
( Card No. 

( Exp. Date: 

( SHIP MY PRINTS TO: 

■ i ( Name: 

( Address: 



Mail this coupon to: | 

robert tinney graphics | 

1864 N. Pamela Drive | 

Baton Rouge, LA i 

70815 | 



L 



postage & handling $3 00 (Overseas $6 00} J_ 
TOTAL t - 



City: _ 
State: . 




almost instantaneous; faster than 
even a hard disk, and much faster 
than a floppy. The result is that pro- 
grams that used to take forever now 
run at lightning speed. 

They make Wordstar pretty endur- 
able; no more waiting while it ac- 
cesses the disk between parts of a 
command. Also, you'll save your 
work much more often, because it 
takes so little time. With a memory 
disk I can save this entire article in 
less time than it took to write this 
sentence. The problem, of course, is 
that you haven't really "saved" the 
work; it's still just in memory. 

Adding battery backup could 
change all that. However, battery 
backup doesn't absolutely prevent 
loss of data. When you power down, 
it's possible for the machine to get 
random instructions, one of which 
could be to write garbage all over the 
RAM disk. (This is one reason we're 
taught to open the drive doors on 
floppy disks before turning the power 
on and off.) 

There are ways to prevent this. The 
Compupro System Support board 
has a power-down detector that could 
be used to disable the write-to-the- 
memory-disk capability. I don't 
know of anyone who's actually done 
that, so there's always a theoretical 
possibility that on power-down the 
RAM disks will contain garbage. 

Pion's product has some nifty 
features. It sports 256K bytes of RAM 
and includes the interface and soft- 
ware. It also has read and write 
lights, so that you can tell when 
something is happening. With the 
other RAM disk systems, you can't be 
sure anything is going on because you 
can't hear the disks clunk; moving 
electrons don't make noises. 

The power source connects directly 
to the wall (not through your 
machine) so that the Pion Interstellar 
Drive can be left on, with your com- 
pilers and whatnot intact, after 
you've turned your system off. You 
don't have to initialize each time. The 
battery backup system works for half 
an hour; there's provision for more 
batteries, and it wouldn't really be 
hard to run it off a car battery. 

The Interstellar Drive's major 
defect is identical to one of its virtues: 



326 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 412 on Inquiry card. 



D I S C O V E R T 



D Y S A N 



K R E N C E 



Advanced Burnishing 
Makes Dysan 








Heads Above 
TheEest 



That's Why They're Quite a Bit Better 

Dysan has taken conventional 
burnishing methods a bit further and 
developed a most advanced tech- 
nique to assure optimum perfor- 
mance of your system. 

Dysan's burnishing method and 
proprietary DY 10 ™ lubricant makes 
the media surface so smooth that 

DY 10 is a trademark of Dysan Corporation. 



Two 



Second in a Series 



Burnishing 



heads actually glide across the sur- 
face with optimum head-to-surface 
interface. That means precise record- 
ing, total system reliability, and pro- 
tection of your floppy investment. 

The true cost of a diskette is not 
just the purchase price, but the pur- 
chase priceplus the time you spend 
to fully load the disc. That's a big in- 
vestment and that's why Dysan goes a 
bit further to make diskettes which 
are the finest that money can buy. 

Background: 

Before burnishing, the surface 
of the media contains many micro- 
scopic peaks and valleys. Without 
proper burnishing, these tiny high 
points can interfere with read/write 
head interface which cause signal 
problems, surface abrasion, and de- 
bris accumulation. And that means 
poor system performance. 

Other Benefits: 

Dysan's "hands-off ' auto-load 
certification system allows Dysan to 
test each and every diskette and elim- 
inates any possibility of handling er- 
rors. Also, 100% surface testing both 
on and between the tracks guaran- 




tees that every diskette is error-free. 
Plus, Dysan's proprietary DY 10 lubri- 
cant provides maximum head-to- 
surface compliance and prolongs 
diskette life. You can select from a 
complete line of premium 8" and 
5V4" diskettes, single or double den- 
sity, certified on one or both sides. 



Corporate Headquarters: 

5201 Patrick Henry Drive 
Santa Clara, CA 95050 
(800) 551-9000 



Circle 148 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 327 



NO COMPROMISE ON P 3 * 



I/O TECHNOLOGY SH00/IEEE-696 PLUG-INS 



DUAL GPID-486 INTERFACE BOARD 

The Dual GPIB-488, is a Stand-Alone, independently controlled Dual 
Channel IEEE-488, 1978 Interface Controller. Interface Activity Modes 
such as Controller In-charge, Controller Assigned or Terminal Bus Slave 
and all Interface Functions, their Sub-Functions including Extended 
Functions, are handled by an On-Board 5MHz Processor and DMA Con- 
troller. 500K Byte Data rates are easily achieved with minimum host 
processor overhead. 

Assembled and tested, P/N 52748-800-100 $650.00 




S^ I' l W| H >??'!'?! l ! "Mi l l i'| » »rii| i | " i m > 




^fl l llUJll l HIIIM I Jl l lllllJJJJllllMilllLy 1 



128Kx8/64Kx 16 
CMOS STATIC RAM MODULE 



TOP BOARD SUPPORT 

LOGIC AND 

32K x 8/ 16 x 16 RAM 




12-BIT A-D-A CONVERTER BOARD 

8 Channel A-D: 12 microsec. Conv. time. Programmable gain & Offset Voltage 
control, Diff ./Single Voltage or Current Input. 

8 Channel D-A: 2 microsec. Settling time, Bipolar V / Unipolar I Output, Pro- 
grammable Reference levels, DUAL-PORTED Refresh RAM. 16 or 8-bit Data 
Transfers via Program I/O or Memory Mapped I/O, Extended Addressing and 
much more. 



Assembled and tested, P/N 52748-900-100 $430.00 



MULTI-FUNCTION I/O BOARD 



Two Serial SYNC/ASYNC 
RS-232, TTL or Current 
Loop with XTAL con- 
trolled Dual Baud Rate 
Generator, Four Parallel 
Ports (Input, Output or 
Bi.), Three 16-Bit timers, 
8-level Interrupt Con- 
troller and large Proto 
area with +5V, ±12V 
for custom applications. 




Assembled and tested, 
P/N 52748-100-101 $325.00 



BOTTOM BOARD 
96K x 8 / 48K x 16 RAM 

150 nsec. Access, 2716 compatible RAM devices, Ex- 
tended Addressing, Programmable wait cycles, Write pro- 
tect and Bank select. Battery back-up capability. No 
wait cycles with fast 16-Bit Processors. The module's 
"Piggy-back" arrangement provides high density @ low 
input power yielding an improved MTBF and space uti- 
lization. 

Assembled and tested, P/N 52748-650-128 $825.00 



PROTOTYPING BOARD KIT 




Can be used for wire- 
wrap or solder proto- 
typing projects. Comes 
complete with +5, 
±12V Regulators, Heat 
sinks, 2 Bus Bars, Filter 
Capacitors and Manual. 

Kit P/N 52748-400 $59.95 



♦PERFORMANCE, POWER, PRICE 



New additions to our line of fine products are always on 
the drawing board. Please watch for the introduction of 
these new items as they become available. 



POST OFFICE BOX 2119 

CANYON COUNTRY, CA 91351 

(805) 252-7666 




Calif, residents add 6% % sales tax. 

U.S. Domestic Price, F.O.B. Factory. 

Prices and Specifications subject to change without notice. 

Circle 193 on Inquiry card. 



® 



CANYON COUNTRY 
CALIFORNIA 



it's a separate box with a power sup- 
ply, a cord to the wall, and another 
cable to your machine; more clutter 
at the computer table. On the other 
hand, when you change machines 
you get to move up the Interstellar 
Drive as well. If you have several 
machines and not much money, the 
Interstellar Drive may be the way to 
go. 

Cache System 

Another approach to speeding 
things up is to use extra memory not 
as a memory disk but as a cache. 

Caching is a technique in which fre- 
quently used instructions and data 
are brought up to a more easily ac- 
cessed area of memory and kept — 
cached — there until needed. This pro- 
cess is accomplished while the 
machine is otherwise idle, for exam- 
ple, while waiting for input. 

I saw Peter Cheesewright of the 
British firm Microcosm Research 
demonstrate his Microcache, and I 
was impressed. While Cheesewright 
was in the United States on a tour to 



demonstrate his product, he worked 
in a visit to Chaos Manor. 

Alas, I've received little informa- 
tion on dealerships. I know that 
Barry Workman was sufficiently im- 
pressed to put Microcache into his in- 
ventory. His Lobo, Ralph, came with 
an extra 64K bytes of memory, and 
Microcache has no trouble making 
use of that. 

The nice thing about Microcache is 
that you don't need much memory to 
make it useful. As little as 16K 
bytes — even as little as 4K — can make 
dramatic changes in program speeds; 
whereas memory disk systems need a 
lot more. Microcache can make use of 
any bank-switched memory you 
don't need. 

Microcache can help with only a 
small amount of memory because it 
stores those items most often called in 
from the disk. There's a least- 
used/ first-out algorithm to decide 
what's kept and what's replaced in the 
cache. The result is that the disk 
directory and bit map are stored and 
kept, and that speeds up disk opera- 



tions something wonderful. 

Because things are actually written 
to the disk as well as cached, battery 
backup isn't needed with Microcache, 
which makes it reasonable for a word 
processor. I haven't installed mine in 
Zeke II (the writing machine) due to 
pure sloth; next month for surel 
Meanwhile, I know it works because 
I've seen it working. 

Osborne Add-ons 

One reason why the Osborne 1 is 
such a strong competitor is the full 
line of accessories available. There's 
the Power-Pac, a battery pack that 
lets you run the machine for three or 
four hours (depending on how many 
disk accesses you do). It's heavy and 
bulky, and takes too long to charge; 
but it works, and if you're headed for 
the Mojave Desert and Death Valley, 
you'll be darned glad to have it. 

Then there's Comm-Pac, a tiny 
300-bps acoustic modem that plugs 
into the Osborne. It comes with full 
instructions and is quite handy. Bet- 
ter, of course, would be one built in. 




SuperBrain 11™- CompuStar" Network Systems 




Excellent dealer & EOM discounts 
CMC's own national on-site service 
Toll-free Ordering & technical assistance 

Six- month warranty 
High resolution graphics 
System support training 
in our facilities 



Module replacement 
Advertising co-op 
After-sale support 

CMC ALSO OFFERS 

• Optional green phosphor screen 

• Enhanced DOS software with advanced files 
directory, diagnostics, disk editor, communications 
software and others 



SOFTWARE, PERIPHERALS FOR SUPERBRAIN COMPUSTAR 



SOFTWARE 



Accounting Plus 
Wordstar 
dBase II 
Microplan 
Profitplan 
Bisynch 80 
CBasic II 



Microsoft 
M Basic 
Fortran 80 
Cobol 80 

M/T Pascal 

P/L1 80 

Spellguard 

Spellstar 



PRINTERS 

Datasouth 

Epson 

C. Itoh 

Okidata 

NEC 

Starwrlter 

F10 



MODEMS 

Anderson-Jacobson 
CAT Novation 

HARD DISKS 

CMC Targa 
Corvus 

MEDIA 

Dysan 
Verbatim 



MISC. 

Line Filters 
Power Supplies 




CMC INTERNATIONAL 



CompuStar 
Hard Disk 
Systems 

10mb, 32mb & 96mb 

Control Data Corp. 

Phoenix Drives 

9448-96 CMD 

9448-32 

LOWEST PRICES 
ANYWHERE! 



1720 130th Ave. N.E. 

Bellevue, Washington 9B00S 

TELEX: 152656 SEATAC 



For Information Call (206) 885-1600 
To Order, Call Toll-free 1-800-426-2963 

DEALER INQUIRIES, GSA, GOVERNMENT, EDUCATIONAL BIDS INVITED 



SuperBram arw CompuStar are registered trademarks at trttertec Data Systems Corrximon 




Circle 76 on Inquiry card. 



July 1963 © BYTE Publintioiu Inc 329 



■ :< f^^BI 


■ 11 

■ "I 


1 


W JMI ITTI 



SP" 



/ 



BOREXCO finds oil. It 
sounds simple but Borehole 
Exploration Corporation relies 
heavily on a sophisticated 
system of computer-generated, 
two- and three-dimensional 
magnetic models. 

Another state-of-the-art 
system — from CompuPro — 
digests the megabytes of 
sensitive measurements that are 
recorded during BOREXCO's 



survey flights over hundreds of 
miles of terrain. 

CompuPro's speed, 
reliability and cost-effectiveness 
won the respect of BOREXCO's 
engineering director, Dr. Brad 
Rehm. "I looked at others and I 
could not get this level of 
performance at several times the 
price," Dr. Rehm said. 

Also, the CompuPro has 
trimmed BOREXCO's 
timesharing costs on a big 



minicomputer by as much as 
$7,000 a month. All of that 
without a single breakdown in 
two years. 

in a complex world, 
CompuPro delivers 
performance, quality and 
reliability. For business, 
scientific and industrial 
computing solutions, contact a 
Full Service CompuPro System 
Center; call (415) 562-0636 for 
location. 




Circle 89 on inquiry card. 



CompuPro, a Godbout Company, Box 2355, Oakland, Airport, CA 94614 



CompuPro Spoken Here. . . 



8 and lor 16 Bits. 

A Full Service CompuPro System Center is much more than a computer store: It is the first place 
to look for business, scientific and industrial computing solutions. When you're ready for professional 
level, state-of-the-art microcomputing, turn to the professionals listed below . . . they're ready for you. 



ARIZONA 

S-100 

14425 N. 79th St. #B 
Scottsdale, AZ 85260 
(800)528-3138 



CALIFORNIA 

Creative Computing Services 

230 S. Montclair #103 
Bakersfield, CA 93309 
(805) 325-9877 

Track Computer Center 

1514 University Avenue 
Berkeley, CA 94703 
(415)845-6366 

Mentzer Computer Systems 

1441 Rollins Rd. 
Burlingame, CA 94010 
(415)340-9363 

Creative Computing Services 

20613 Soledad Canyon Rd. 
Canyon Country, CA 91351 
(805)251-9877 

Logic Systems 

5830 Jameson Ct. 
Carmichael, CA 95608 
(916)971-3133 

Priority One Electronics 

9161 Peering Ave. 
Chatsworth, CA 91311 
(213)709-5464 

Byte Shop of Hayward 

1122 B St. 
Hayward, CA 94541 
(415)886-4732 

Priority One Electronics 

18241 McDurmott 
Irvine, CA 92714 
(714)660-1411 

American Computers & Engineers 

2001 S. Barrington Ave. #204 
Los Angeles, CA 90025 
(213)477-6751 



Gifford Computers 

2323 Corinth Ave. 
Los Angeles, CA 90064 
(213)477-3921 






ACC 

883 Steirlin Rd. #B110 
Mountain View, CA 94043 
(415)969-4969 



Track Computer Center 

2100 Broadway St. 
Oakland, CA 94612 
(415)444-8725 

System Interface Consultants 

17440 Revello Dr. 

Pacific Palisades, CA 90272 

(213)454-2100 

Advanced Information Mgmt. 

145 Kentucky St. 
Petaluma, CA 94952 
(707) 763-7283 

Best Computer Stores 

5516 Springdale Ave. 
Pleasanton, CA 94566 
(415)463-2233 

Gifford Computers 

230 California St. #207 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
(415)391-4570 

Gifford Computers 

1922 Republic Ave. 
San Leandro, CA 94577 
(415)895-0798 

Computer House 

722 B St. 

San Rafael, CA 94901 

(415)453-0865 



Data Bank 

629 State St. 
Santa Barbara, 
(805) 962-8489 



CA 93101 



Data Bank 

600 S. Broadway 
Santa Maria, CA 93456 
(805)922-1333 

Matrix Computers 

720 Mendocino Ave. 
Santa Rosa, CA 95401 
(707) 542-0571 

Pragmatic Designs, Inc. 

950 Benicia Ave. 
Sunnyvale, CA 94086 
(408) 736-8670 



FLORIDA 

Micro Computer Technology 

1549 W. Brandon Blvd. 
Brandon, FL 33511 
(813)685-7659 



GEORGIA 

General Software, Inc. 

1360 Georgia Ave. 
Macon, GA 31201 
(912)742-6959 



HAWAII 

Capacity Plus Computers 

250 Alamaha St. N14 
Kahului Maui, HI 96732 
(808) 877-3496 

ILLINOIS 

Computers Plus 

201 N. Main St. 
Athens, IL 62613 
(217)636-8491 

Small Business Systems, Inc. 

1016 E. 31st St. 

La Grange Park, IL 60525 

(312) 579-3311 

Lillipute Computer Mart, Inc. 

4446 Oakton St. 
Skokie, IL 60076 
(312)674-1383 

INDIANA 

General Software, Inc. 

1454 S. 25th St. 
Terre Haute, IN 47803 
(812)234-9421 

MARYLAND 

JR Systems 

8227 Woodmont Ave. #200 
Bethesda, MD 20814 
(301)657-3598 

MASSACHUSETTS 

New England Electronic Exch. 

138 Arlington St. 
Boston, MA 021 16 
(617)491-3000 

(Please turn the page) 




CompuPro, a Godbout Company, 
Box 2355, Oakland Airport, CA 94614 



BYTE July 1983 331 









...And 
Here. 



Key Micro Systems 

822 Boylston St. 
Chestnut Hill, MA 02167 
(617)738-7306 

NEW YORK 

John D. Owens Associates, Inc. 

12 Schubert St. 

Staten Island, NY 10305 

(212)448-6283 

NORTH CAROLINA 

General Semantics, Inc. 

125 S. Elm St., Dixie Bldg. #400 
Greensboro, NC 27401 
(919)288-1117 



OREGON 

Microwest Computer Products 

811 E. Burnside#117 
Portland, OR 97214 
(503) 238-6274 



RHODE ISLAND 

Key Micro Systems 

1606 Nooseneck 
Coventry, Rl 02816 
(401)828-7270 

WISCONSIN 

Byte Shop of Milwaukee 

4840 S 76th St. 
Greenfield, Wl 53220 
(414)281-7004 

CANADA 

Dynacomp Business Computers Ltd. 

3258 Beta Ave. 

Burnaby, British Columbia V5G 4K4 

(604) 299-3747 

CSC System Center Ltd. 

2403 Canoe Ave. 

Coquitlam, British Columbia V3K 6A9 

(604) 941-0622 

UNITED KINGDOM 

Comcen Technology Ltd. 

45/46 Wychtree St., Morriston 
Swansea SA6 8EX 
(0792) 796000 





CompuPro, a Godbout Company, 
Box 2355, Oakland Airport, CA 94614 



Finally there's my favorite, the 
Start-Pac. This is a box of flip charts 
and cassette tapes that explain in 
detail how to use the Osborne and 
how to get Wordstar running. The in- 
structions assume very little; we were 
able to hand the Osborne and the 
Start-Pac to Boy Scouts and let them 
work on their own, and soon enough 
they were writing with Wordstar and 
copying their disks. 

Other companies also make stuff 
for the Osborne. For instance, the 
Osborne screen is a bit small for 
everyday use. Apparently, it's not as 
bad for me as for some; I hunch down 
close to it and it's just about right — 
seen through the lower half of my 
bifocals. Some, though, find it mad- 
dening. 

One remedy is the Osborne large 
screen. That works fine, but it's both 
expensive and bulky. There are con- 
siderably better and smaller moni- 
tors, like the Zenith, but the 
Osborne's video format is such that 
you can't feed it to a normal monitor. 

Comes now: JMM Enterprises with 
Ex-Mon. Ex-Mon plugs into the Os- 
borne and converts the video output 
to something displayable by a normal 
monitor. It does it without shutting 
off the little 5-inch screen, too. 
Recommended. 

It's Mysterious All Right 

I see that Tandy has finally 
authorized a book, TRSDOS 2.3 
Decoded & Other Mysteries, explain- 
ing TRSDOS for the Model I. It's 
published by IJG, which originally 
published the first — very much un- 
authorized — sensible book on the 
TRS-80 operating system, TRS-80 
Disk & Other Mysteries. The publish- 
er tells us that Tandy "authorized" 
the book but doesn't say whether 
Fort Worth gets part of the $29.95 list 
price. 

The publisher claims that this book 
"Marks a major breakthrough in the 
exchange of information between 
users and the manufacturer." The 
breakthrough comes now that the 
TRS-80 Model I is no longer manu- 
factured and Tandy is phasing out its 
support of Model I TRSDOS. Some 
breakthrough. 

I'm a little bitter about my ex- 



periences with Tandy. I had genuine- 
ly thought that the Model I was the 
machine of the future: an inexpensive 
home computer that could be expand- 
ed by stages until it would do profes- 
sional work. Of course it was never 
that. First, Tandy tried to fence in 
Model I users through that goofy 
operating system, and then it 
wouldn't let Radio Shack stores sell 
non-Tandy software. 

Details of TRSDOS were very hard 
to come by. There sprang up substi- 
tutes like NEWDOS by Apparat, 
which published a "zap" a week (fixes 
to TRSDOS), LDOS, and DOSPLUS. 
Eventually, the hobbyists figured out 
ways to make TRSDOS work (more 
or less); by then, though, the Model I 
was on its way out. It had never been 
all that well designed, and when sales 
took off much faster than anticipated, 
the quality control system couldn't 
cope. 

It's mysterious, but I'm just not as 
impressed as I could be by this major 
information exchange breakthrough. 

Free Software 

The CP/M User's Group supplies 
about a hundred disks of public- 
domain software. A catalog is avail- 
able for $10 ($15 overseas). The price 
is $12 for a single-sided single-density 
8-inch disk (240K bytes) pretty well 
packed with programs. 

What you get is a mixed bag. Some 
of the disks have terrific stuff. Others 
have boring games in BASIC. One 
has an air search and rescue simula- 
tion/game that might be interesting. 
Another has a pretty good mailing list 
program. Others have Pascal/Z pro- 
grams, some of which accomplish 
feats that no human has ever wanted 
accomplished. And again, scattered 
among all this will be real gems, 
worth more than a lot of programs 
sold for stiff prices. (Incidentally, 
probably 50 percent of the really 
good programs were written by Ward 
Christensen, a public benefactor.) 

Every time I mention the CP/M 
User's Group in this column two 
things happen: one, the address is 
given in the Items Reviewed box that 
always accompanies the column, and 
two, up to a dozen people write and 
ask me for the address. That used to 



332 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Can you tell the IBM 
from the Transtar 130? 



Letter quality 
standard of 
the industry 



5x magnification 



One of these two print samples was generated by an IBM 
Selectric II: the letter quality standard of the industry. 

The other was generated by the new Transtar 130 letter- 
quality printer. 



Transtar 

P.O. Box C-96975, Bellevue, WA 98009 



B 



Letter quality 
standard of 
the industry 



5x magnification 



And print quality is just the beginning! The 
new Transtar 130 daisy wheel printer is 
also plug-and-go compatible with the best-selling 
word processing packages! It features bidirection- 
al printing, superscript, subscript, underlining and 
a true boldface. Retail price? Only $895. 

Quietly producing copy at 18 cps Shannon text 
speed, the Transtar 130 also features a unique 
autoload button to make printing on letterheads 
a breeze! Three new daisy wheels have just been 
made available for the 130 from your dealer: 
letter gothic (shown), script, and a 15-pitch 
"gothic mini"— perfect for printing spreadsheets 
to fit on one page! 

Offering an end-user warranty period of a full 
six months, the Transtar 130 is an extraordinar- 
ily reliable machine. Its minimal failure rate runs 
less than 1%, but if your 130 should ever need 
repair, a nationwide network of authorized 
Transtar service centers stands ready. 

Have you decided yet whose type is whose? 
If you picked A. ..You picked Transtar. The 
new standard for letter quality printing. 




IBM is a regisiert'd trademark u* International Business Machin 



Circle 418 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 333 



bother me more than it does now. 
Anyway, the address of the CPMUG 



is 



CP/M User's Group 
1651 Third Ave. 
New York, NY 10028 

Don't try to telephone them. There's 
no one to take your call. You can 
connect to a computerized bulletin 
board system (CBBS) operated by 
Christensen by calling (312) 
849-1132. This is a single-user system, 
so don't be a hog. I haven't used it 
myself, so I can't supply details. The 
CP/M User's Group disk catalogs are 
filed on this CBBS. 

Ward Christensen is the author of 
MODEM7, probably the most popu- 
lar microcomputer communications 
program in existence. MODEM7 is 
available from the CP/M User's 
Group. It isn't particularly easy to use 
or install but given familiarity with 
your system and assembly-language 
programming it can be done. 

Once armed with MODEM7, you 



can go hunting for free software. 
Plenty of it is available, both in the 
public domain and an increasingly 
popular variant that has no name, 
but works thus: "If you like this, send 
me (the author) some money. I prefer 
cash." 

Linking Up 

One perennial problem is how to 
get .COM files from one machine to 
another. With any luck, you can 
transfer them on floppy disks, which 
are quick and efficient — after all, 
that's why floppies were invented in 
the first place. Unfortunately, all too 
many machines can't read each 
other's disks. In those cases you must 
transfer the files "port to port." 

Even when both machines have ap- 
parently identical RS-232C serial I/O 
(input/output) ports, the problem is 
nontrivial. Not all RS-232C ports are 
the same. When ports are the same, 
data rates can differ. In your CBIOS 
(customized basic input/output 
system), there's special code to tell 
your machine how to send informa- 



tion to, and get it from, those ports; 
and the methods used are not always 
obvious. A full discussion of the 
hardware options would run longer 
than this entire column. 

Once you've got the hardware 
hookup taken care of, it's a fairly sim- 
ple matter to send short — 20K bytes 
and under — text files from one 
machine to another using PIP 
(although sometimes, for no reason 
Tony Pietsch or I can predict, even 
short text files come across garbled). 
Longer files, and binary files (such as 
COMmand files, like BASIC or a text 
editor), are a more difficult matter. If 
you have MODEM7 up and running 
on both the sending and the receiving 
machine, there's no problem; but sup- 
pose you don't? How can you get 
MODEM7 over to the receiving 
machine in the first place? 

There are other communication 
programs (e.g., SOFTCOM), but 
many of them will not work with 
some advanced microcomputers be- 
cause they were written some years 
ago. Text continued on page 339 



FREE SHIPPING 



IBM® Personal Computer Products 

DaVOng 5 MB Hard Disk System - $1495.00 12 MB - $1005.00 

IBM PC-2 Drive System $ CALL 

3" DUAL DRIVE SUBSYSTEM $725.00 

Quadram - Quadboard with Parallel 

Port, Serial Port, Clock/Calendar, Expandable to 256 K 



64 K on brd.- $340.00 
192K on brd. -$439.00 



128K on brd,- $305.00 
256 K on brd. - $400.00 



Quadram Memory Expansion 

192K Maximum 

64 K on brd. -$230.00 

1 92 K on brd. -$350.00 

AST S KRSTST MEMORY EXPANSION PRODUCTS 

Amdek Monitors 

Mod 300 Phosphor - $150.00 
IBM RGB Compatible Color II - 



128K on brd.- $200.00 
$ CALL 



Composite Color III - $345.00 
$500.00 Color I - $300.00 



IBM/TRS 80 Disk Drives/Cabinets 

TM 100 Single 40 Track Drive - $100.00 

TM 100-2 Double 40 Track Drive - $200.00 

TEAC 5V«" SUM SINGLE A DOUBLE DRIVE SUBSYSTEMS 



$ CALL 



Ap ple II® Computer Products 

Apple Compatible Controller Card $ 70.05 

Apple Compatible Disk Drive w/Cabinet & Cable 240.00 

w/Controller 315.00 

TEAC SLIM LINE 5V." DRIVE $205.00 DUAL SUM LINE $525.00 

Printer/Graphics Interface 00.05 

Davong 5 MB Hard Disk System - $1405.00 — 12 MB - $1005.00 

Apple Compatible Joysticks 20.05 




Smith Corona TP-' 



Epson/Smith-Corona Printers 

MX80 $425-00 FX80 $550.00 MX100 $075.00 
TRS 80 / Parallel Printer Cable $20.00 
IBM Parallel Printer Cable $35.00 
STAR MICRONICS GEMINI 10 $ CALL 
GEMINI 15 $ CALL 
Letter Quality Daisy Wheel $575.00 



JHK 



ELECTRONICS 

INC. 



TRS-80 MOD III Disk Controller Inch Disk Controller Power 

Supply. Mounting Hardware. Cables & Instruction Manuals $230.00 

Dual 8" Slim Line - $180.00 Dual 5'/<" -$ 90.00 
Single 5'/," -1 69.00 

DUAL DRIVE SUDSYSTEM FOR IDM $725.00 



POWER SUPPLIES 
AND CAOINETS 



VISA, MASTERCARD «lOO Mm Add 2%) 

Or Certified Check 

90 Day Warranty (Parts & Labor) 

TRS 80 is a Registered Trademark. Tandy Corp. 
Prices Subject to Change Without Notice 



334 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



DATA— MAIL 

P.O. Box818. Reseda. CA 91 335 
1-800-635-5555 



FREE SHIPPING IN CONTINENTAL U.S. 



(2131 993-4804 

(IN CALIF.) 



4 



Circle 207 on inquiry card. 




DON'T COMPROMISE 



coHpare COMPARE 
coHpa^e COHPftRE 




OURS: 31 ( 



THCRS: 434nm.dotpitch.da column (•> 



TUB DDIMrKTAU UV.11 

i nK rmnvEiwra 114% i* 
RESOLUTION RGB COLOR MONITOR 





* * y > *f ** •• ** •* •* » •Tf^m * • ^ 

| * * ri i i * * * ]t **4 O^ 



Xerox Service Centers. 
The personal computer 
back-up system you've 
been looking for. 



Unfortunately, most people find out the hard 
way that theres one question even a personal 
computer can't answer. 

Where can you take it for service? 

We have a suggestion. Come to one of our 




new Xerox Service Centers. We have 82 nation- 
wide. And we're multiplying faster than soft- 
ware programs. 

Right now we're equipped to handle 
Osborne™ Computers, Epson™ MX Series 
Printers, Pied Piper™ Computers, Morrow 
Designs Micro Decision™ Computers, Corona 
Data Systems Computers, Enter Sweet Pea™ 
Color Plotters, Cameo Electronics Winchester 
Disk Drives, Okidata Microline™ and Pace- 
mark,™ and Amdek™ products. In addition 
to a number of Xerox products like the 820 
Personal Computer and Diablo 
Printers. But in the future, we'll be 
servicing even more brands of per- 
sonal computers and related 
items. 

Our service people have to 
undergo one of the toughest 
training programs in the 
industry. Including plenty of 

336 BYTE July 1983 



hands-on experience and intensive study of 
computer technology. 

Then we put them through the specialized 
courses on other brands. 

WeVe even provided a back-up system to 
our back-up system with a nationwide "hot line" 
to our Xerox Technical Support Centers. So in 
the unlikely event your bugaboo baffles our 
local whiz, theres extra help close at hand. 

And we keep our parts departments well 
stocked. Which means your problem can be 
fixed a lot faster than you'd imagine. 

But one of the best things about bringing* 
your equipment to us is that you get Xerox qual- 
ity service at a very affordable price. 

So come in and see us. Or contact the Xerox 
Five Star Service Dealer in your area for more 
information. 

Because 82 new Xerox Service Centers are 
not only a nice step forward for us. They're a 
great system for you to fall back on. 

Visa, MasterCard and American Express 
Cards accepted. 

*Pick-up and delivery available. 



Xerox Service Centers. 



Alabama: Birmingham, 167-A Citation Court, (205) 945-1280. 
Arizona: Tempe, Suite 101, 2109 S. 48th St., (602) 967-1922. 
California: Alhambra, 614 South Marengo, (213) 289- 
v V 0m; Anaheim, 232 W Cerritos Ave., (714) 776- 

8143; Carson, Suite E, 20630 Leapwood, (213) 
516-6650; Chatsworth, 20802 Plummer St., 
(213) 709-0226; Sacra- 
mento, 4247 S. Market 
Court, (916) 920-2275; 
San Diego, Suite N, 7343 
Ronson Rd., (619) 569- 
1212; San Francisco, 







XEROX 



Suite B, 1555 Burke Ave., (415) 821-7719; San 
Leandro, 1981 Adams, (415) 635-9300; Sunnyvale, 
#6, 540 Weddell Drive, (408) 734-2540. Colorado: 
Denver, Suite 201, 8200 E. Pacific Place, (303) 696- 
8966. Connecticut: Hartford, 593 Farmington Ave., 
(203) 236-2381. Delaware Area: Westchester, Pa., 301 Wil 
lowbrook Lane, (215) 431-0533. Florida: Altamonte Springs, 
716 North Lake Blvd., (305) 830-8109; Ft. Lauderdale, #502, 1500 
N.W 62nd St., (305) 491-3202; Jacksonville, Unit #4, 3035 
Powers Ave., (904) 731-7218; Miami, 6908 N.W 72nd Ave., (305) 
887-2711; Tampa, Suite 6, 6201 Johns Rd., (813) 886-0779. Geor- 
gia: Atlanta, Suite 10, 2215 Perimeter Park Drive, (404) 458-1016. 
Hawaii: Honolulu, Suite 104, 627 South St., (808) 526-0885. Illi- 
nois: Chicago, 165 N. Canal St., (312) 559-9440; Elk Grove Vil- 
lage, 2216 Landmeier Rd., (312) 437-3180; Lombard, 436A 
Eisenhower Lane, (312) 953- 
1113; Springfield, 2036 
S. MacArthur, (217) 
523-1007. Indiana: 
Indianapolis, 5335 
W Minnesota St., 
(317) 241-2888. 
Iowa: Des 
Moines, 700 E. 4th 
St., (515) 282-8700. 
Kansas: Overland 
Parle, 6383 WHO St., (913) 
381-9819; Wichita, 7804 E. Funston, (316) 685-4731. Kentucky: 
Louisville, 10308 Bluegrass Parkway, (502) 499-7224. Louisiana: 
Baton Rouge, Suite K, 10466 Airline Highway, (504) 291-5974; 
Harahan, Suite F, 550 Wholesalers Parkway, (504) 733-1201. 
Maryland: Hunt Valley, 100 Lakefront Drive, (301) 667-8711; 
Lanham, 9730A-1 George Palmer Highway, (301) 459-3973; Rock- 
ville, 12288 H. Wilkens Ave., (301) 468-8870. Massachusetts: 
Braintree, 190 Forbes Rd., (617) 848-5750; Wbburn, 248 W Cum- 
mings Park, (617) 938-0845. Michigan: Lansing, Suite 7, 6810 
South Cedar, (517) 694-3350; Troy, Suite 7, 1270 Rankin, (313) 
583-2935. Minnesota: Edina, 3650 Hazelton Rd., (612) 920- 
4472. Mississippi: Jackson, 870 Foley St., (601) 948-6302. Mis- 
souri: 5/. Louis, 11984 Dorsett Rd., (314) 991-2106. Nebraska: 
Omaha, 11129 Mill Valley Rd., (402) 493-0387. New Jersey: 
Lodi, 300-1B Rt. 17, (201) 777-4441; Monmouth Junction, Bldg. 1, 
248 U.S. Rt. 1, (201) 329-2050; Whippany, 145 Algonquin Park- 
way, (201) 428-1275. New Mexico: Albuquerque, Suite D, 5659 
Kircher Blvd., (505) 344-3563. New York: Albany, Pine West 
XEROX®, 820 and Diablo" are trademarks of XEROX CORPORATION. 








Plaza One, Washington Ave Ext., (518) 869-9082; 
Cheektowaga, 198 Sugg Rd., (716) 634-2993; Elmsford, 
5 Westchester Plaza, (914) 592-4454; Lake Success, Suite 
1-E8, 3000 Marcus Ave., (516) 437-1134; Liverpool, 7150 Henry 
Clay Blvd., (315) 451-7420; New York, 405 Lexington Ave., (212) 
697-2190; Rochester, 333 Metro Park, (716) 424-4010. North Car- 
olina: Charlotte, 2838 G Interstate 85 S., Carolina Center, (704) 
399-1523; Raleigh, 5225 North Blvd., #1 N. Commerce Center, 
(919) 876-1610. Ohio: Akron, 2650 S. Arlington Rd., (216) 644- 
3251; Cincinnati, 4814 Interstate Drive, (513) 874-0884; Cleveland, 
Technology Plaza, 5267 E. 98th St., (216) 587-1546; Columbus, 
3711 Corporate Drive, (614) 895-3033. Oklahoma: Oklahoma 
City, 2122 South Meridian, (405) 682-5030; Tulsa, 4725A South 
Memorial Drive, (918) 665-0811. Oregon: Tigard, 10110 S.W 
Nimbus Ave., B-9, (503) 684-1152. Pennsylvania: Harrisburg, 
806 S. 29th St., (717) 564-2602; King of Prussia, Suite C, 1006 
W 8th Ave., (215) 337-4486; Philadelphia, Suite H&I, 9140 
Academy Rd., (215) 33\-0999;Pittsburgh, 601 Holiday 
Drive, (412) 921-8202. Tennessee: Memphis, Suite 
143, 1835 Nonconnah Blvd., (901) 346-2211; 
Nashville, 1854 Airlane Drive, (615) 883- 
5102. Texas: Austin, #112, 7950 Ander- 
son Square, (512) 451-6263; Dallas, Suite 
104, 1625 W Mockingbird Lane, (214) 630- 
6647; Fort Worth, 3273 Crabtree St., (817) 626- 
8243; Houston, Suite 220, 7280 Wynnwood, (713) 
862-1784; Houston, 3642 Westchase Drive, (713) 789- 
3070; San Antonio, Suite 112, 241 1 Northeast Loop 410, 
(512) 655-0085. Utah: Salt 
Lake City, 3697 W 1987 
S., (801) 973-7316. Vir- 
ginia: Fairfax, 2731B 
Prosperity Ave., (703) 
698-7477; Richmond, 
8707 W Broad St., (804) 
747-0275; Virginia Beach, 
1448 Air Rail Ave., (804) 
464-4752. Washington: 
Renton, 266 S.W 43rd St., 
(206) 251-9155. West 
Virginia: Charleston, 
523 Central Ave., (304) 
342-8015. Wisconsin: 
New Berlin, 2995 South 
Moreland, (414) 784-3690.| 

Circle 452 on Inquiry card. 




Nine Thousand 
Nine Hundred & 
Ninety Dollars, 



3 USERS. 21 MBYTES 
WINCHESTER. 320K RAM. 

AND YOU CAN ONLY GET IT 
FROM GIFFORD. 

Look at that price again. We were a little 
skeptical at first, too. But after checking 
our totals we knew we'd finally done 
it: developed a multi-user, 8-16 bit 
obsolescence-proof hard-disk computer 
system, complete with dBase II,™ Super- 
Calc-86,™ and MP/M-86™ for under 
$10, 000. Expandability's a breakthrough, 
too. You can add four additional users 
for just $600 each, plus terminal. 

IS IT 8 BIT OR 16 BIT? YES. 

Like you would expect of a Gifford 
computer system, it can run any 
combination of 8 and 16 bit CP/M 
programs simultaneously. So, on top of 
all the thousands of 8 bit CP/M 
programs available, you'll also be able 



to take advantage of any of the more 
powerful 16 bit programs . . . and run 
them at the same time. And when we 
say it works, it really works. After all, 
we were the folks who invented 8-16 bit 
operating systems. 

STOP LOOKING. AND START 
CUTTING. 

Send us the coupon and we'll send you 
a brochure detailing all the advantages 
of going with Gifford. Such as, our 
exclusive networking and multi-tasking 
telecommunications packages, our two 
year warranty and the benefits of select- 
ing an IEEE 696/S-100 bus-based system. 

There's lots more to tell, but if you're 
a business or technical professional 
looking for an obsolescence- 
proof, multi- user hard-disk computer 
system that features expandability 
and dependability, plus complete 
service and support at an incredibly low 
price, stop looking and cut the coupon. 
And by all means, wait 
for our brochure before 
jj you make any investment. 




Gifford Computer System 321 
Includes: 

320K Static RAM Memory 

Two 8" DS/DD Floppies 2.4Mb 
Formatted 

Gifford F5-21 Winchester Drive 21Mb 
Formatted (27 Mb Unformatted) 

CompuPro Enclosure 2 With: 
IEEE 696/S-100 bus 
9 I/O Ports 
20 bus Slots 

dBASE II 

SuperCalc-86 

MP/M-86 

Terminals not included. Compatible 
with all standard RS-232 terminals and 
printers. 

MP/M 8-16 is a proprietary implementation of 
MP/M-86 and was configured for CompuPro by 
Gifford Computer Systems. CP/M and MP/M are 
registered trademarks of Digital Research. Super- 
Calc is a trademark of Sorcim. dBase II is a trade- 
mark of Ashton-Tate. CompuPro is a trademark 
of Godbout Electronics. Prices and specifications 
subject to change. 

Gifford Computer Systems is an 
authorized CompuPro Systems Center. 




(415) 895-07 

I'D LIKE THE WHOLE STORY. 

Please send me your brochure. 

Name Title. 

Organization ; ^: : ?: ■ V ' ^ ■ ; : ; : - ; : ' : ;; 

Address ': : :^ : ,i> " v:::--: : v ». : : : : 

City- 



Phone; ' ;, , ,1.~. . 



-State— 



Please have a representative call trie. 



BY 



GIFFORD COMPUTER SYSTEMS □ SAN LEANDRO, CA (415) 895-0798 □ SAN FRANCISCO, CA (415) 391-4570 □ LOS ANGELES, CA (213) 477-3921 
□ MIAMI, FL (305) 665-9212 □ HOUSTON, TX (713) 877-1212 □ AMHERST, NY (716) 833-4758 □ FARMINGTON HILLS, MI (313) 471-5854 □ 

Circle 176 on inquiry card. 



Tony decided to do something 
about this problem. He wrote a pro- 
gram called SEND-HEX, which con- 
verts files into Intel hexadecimal for- 
mat and then transfers them. Once 
received, the files can be converted 
back to their original format, whether 
text, .COM, .REL, or whatever. 

SEND-HEX works like a charm. 
We used it to transfer WRITE (our 
snazzy text editor) and XD (an 
enhanced DIR command) over to 
Adelle, my Otrona Attache portable 
computer. Then we used SEND-HEX 
to transfer files from the Otrona to 
the Kaypro. Indeed, whenever we get 
a new CP/M machine, or there's any 
kind of file-transfer problem, we haul 
out SEND-HEX. 

Barry Workman wanted to publish 
the program, but Tony's documenta- 
tion, though good enough to let me 
use his program, said far too little 
about file transfers in general and 
had a number of "you know what I 
mean" loose ends. 

I had made some notes on file 
transfer for my own reference; by 
judicious application of slivovitz, 
Barry talked me into polishing up 
those notes as the documentation for 
SEND-HEX, which he's marketing 
under the name The Transporter. 

I decided to write everything I 
could think of about file transfer: 
hardware, software; the difference 
between physical and logical devices; 
data terminal equipment and data 
communications equipment; RS- 
232C ports, the kinds of RS-232C 
cables; and more. The theory was 
that I'd make it do double duty by 
putting it into this column. 

Hah. The result was more than 
8000 words. Linking computer 
systems isn't really all that com- 
plicated, but there's just a lot of 
detailed stuff you must be familiar 
with. I ended up going to about nine 
books, each of which has some of the 
information needed. As Alex puts it, 
we scoured the earth. 

There's no chance I'm going to get 
all that in the column, and I find 
nothing I can cut and still make it 
complete and self-contained. Barry is 
including it as part of The Transport- 
er package. I'm not getting royalties 
on it. 



Bits, Bytes, and Buzzwords 

Not long ago, Federal Express 
delivered a thick sheaf of galley 
proofs. It turned out to be Bits, Bytes, 
and Buzzwords: Understanding Small 
Business Computers by Mark Garetz. 
Mark is president of the Compu- 
pro Division of Godbout Electronics, 
and he's written one heck of a book. 
It's the kind of introduction to small 
computers that this field has always 
needed, and which, I confess, I was 
tempted to write myself. 

I won't have to just yet. Garetz's 
book isn't as good on software as I'd 
like to see, but it's as good an intro to 
hardware as I've come across. 

That's not just my opinion. My son 
Alex is a senior in computer science. 
Jennifer, his young lady friend, weary 
of innumerable conversations of 
which she understood not a word, 
decided to learn something of com- 
puters in self-defense. 

Tonight, while browsing through 
Garetz's book, Jennifer learned that 
the goofy numbers like 6502 refer to 
computer chips. 

Included are chapters on computer 
systems (CPU, memory, input/out- 
put, etc.); peripherals (terminals, disk 
drives, and printers); and software. 
The latter part of the book isn't quite 
as good as the rest, but it does give a 
good discussion of what an operating 
system is and why you need one. 

There's a good discussion of 8-bit 
versus 16-bit machines, and which 
are useful for what. Not surprisingly, 
Garetz recommends microcomputers 
using the S-100 bus — a conclusion I 
completely agree with. 

Understand, the book is introduc- 
tory. Hackers with several years' ex- 
perience won't find anything new. 
Beginners, though, should find it a 
godsend. Highly recommended. Jen- 
nifer was impressed. 

Drop Dead, Twice 

Many a year ago, I wrote a science 
column for the late, lamented Galaxy 
science-fiction magazine. For one 
issue, I had to calculate spaceship or- 
bits with a slide rule and log tables, 
and I almost went out of my mind. I 
desperately needed a scientific digital 
calculator. Alas, at the time there ex- 
isted Hewlett-Packard scientific 



Circle 462 on inquiry card. 

StarLogic 

Announces More 

Disk Drive 

Savings 

TANDON DRIVES FOR IBM AND OTHER 
PERSONAL COMPUTERS 

These basic drives can be mounted inter- 
nally on IBM and other personal computers. 
Both full-size and the new ThinLine models 
are available. 

TANDON TM100-1 $165.00 

TANDON TM50-1 $145.00 

TANDON TM100-2 . $235.00 

TANDON TM55-2 $215.00 

TANDON TM-100-4 $295.00 

TANDON TM55-4 , $275.00 

TANDON TM101 -4 $295.00 

TANDON TM848-1 $350.00 

TANDON TM848-2 $425.00 

APPLE II-C0MPATIBLE DISK DRIVES 
FROM INTERFACE INC 
Includes drive, cable and cabinet 
(also compatible with Apple look-alikes) 
5W standard drive $205.00 

ThinLine drive $185.00 

Dual ThinLine drives , $335.00 

EXTERNAL DRIVES FOR IBM PC 
FROM INTERFACE INC 
Price includes drive, power supply, cable 
and cabinet. 

100-1 with 160K IBM format $235.00 

100-2 with 320K IBM format $305.00 

55-2 with 320K IBM format $285.00 

100-4 with 650K IBM format $385.00 

(includes software patch to DOS 1 . 1) 
55-4 with 650K IBM format $365.00 

(includes software patch to DOS 1.1) 

WINCHESTER SUBSYSTEMS FOR IBM PC 
FROM INTERFACE INC 

Includes Winchester disk drive, cabinet, 
power supply, cable, controller, I/O 
adaptor and software (JEL) for 1.1 DOS 
5 Megabyte $1375.00 

10 Megabyte $1575.00 

15 Megabyte $1775.00 

IBM PC XT DISK DRIVES 
FROM INTERFACE INC 
Dual floppy disk drives each with 362K 
bytes storage; both drives mount in 
"A" position $ 450.00 

10 Megabyte Winchester Subsystem, 
Slave compatible with IBM 
DOS 2.0 $1095.00 

External floppy disk drives from Interface 
Inc are also available for the TRS-80 
Model III, the Tandy Color Computer, and 
other personal computers. 

All drives and peripherals have our standard 
warranty which includes 90 days parts and 
labor. 

TELEPHONE ORDERS ONLY 
Only phone orders will be accepted. Master 
Card, VISA, Cashier's Check, COD accepted. 
(213) 883-0587 

StarLogic 

20932 Cantara St. 
Canoga Park, CA 91301 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
IBM and IBM PC are registered trademarks of IBM Corporation. 
TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Tandy Corporation. 
ThinLine is a registered trademark of Tandon Corporation. 
JEL is a product of Tall Tree Systems. 

Prices subject to change without notice. 

Prices do not include shipping charges which will be 

added to billing. i 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 339 



calculators, but they were priced far 
out of my reach. 

Then came the Texas Instruments 
TI-50, which cost about $150, less 
than half what HP wanted for its 
machine. The TI-50 had logs, and 
trig, and fractional exponents — 
everything I needed. I hung my 
Pickett Log-log Decitrig slide rule on 
the wall, gulped hard, and wrote a 
check. I've never regretted it, and the 
Pickett is still on the wall. 

Thus, I've always had a soft spot in 
my heart for TI. When my mad friend 
got me involved with small com- 
puters, both of us thought our second 
machine would probably come from 
Texas Instruments. We were sure 
that, as with scientific calculators, TI 
would lay back until it could deliver a 
machine that did more for half the 
cost. 

We expected that right up to the 
time when TI came out with its per- 
sonal computer, the TI-99/4. Then 
we knew better. Not only was the 
TI-99/4 slow, but you couldn't get in- 
to it. TI published almost nothing 



about its innards, nor was there the 
kind of software, such as assembler 
and debugger, that encouraged 
tinkering. 

TI's message was loud and clear: 
"Drop dead, hobbyists!" 

Last year at the West Coast Com- 
puter Faire, I talked to a number of TI 
people and was convinced that TI had 
reformed — that it would encourage 
outsiders to write software for its 
machines. 

Today I learned better. According 
to the Wall Street Journal, TI is using 
ROM-based hardware to ensure that 
unlicensed software cartridges won't 
work on the TI-99/4A. Anyone who 
wants to write programs for the TI- 
99/4A must sell all rights to TI, who 
will be the sole software supplier. It 
will, it says, pay royalties to the 
authors. 

I haven't seen the contracts TI of- 
fers, but if they at all resemble those 
IBM tried to foist off on authors, it 
shouldn't have many takers. TI is 
altering its computers so that only 
software making use of a GROM 



SOLID, OAK 
SOFTWARE. mmm i 




DISTINCTIVE COMPUTER FURNITURE. 

FACTORY DIRECT. 

UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED. 

All the peripherals you can buy won't help and the affordability of factory-direct 

the productivity of your computer system, if delivery. 

you don't have an organized way to utilize Write us, or call our toll-free number to order 



them System VII Furniture gives you an 
efficient, comfortable workspace. With the 
warmth and beauty of hand-rubbed Oak • 



a full-color catalog. 



call 1-800-547-8888 Dept f 

'.O. Box 427 • Lafayette. Oregon 97127 



(graphics read-only memory) can 
work in the 99/4A. TI owns exclusive 
rights to the GROM, and it won't 
license it to anyone else. That way, TI 
keeps a monopoly on software that 
runs in its computers. 

A number of software designers 
have decided that they'd rather work 
with other machines; and according 
to the Journal, Charles LaFara, presi- 
dent of the TI Users' Group, says, 'TI 
hasn't given us enough quality soft- 
ware itself, and now it is stifling the 
efforts of others." 

I've always thought the TI machine 
had more potential than it ever 
showed. When TI told me that it was 
going to encourage hobbyists to write 
software for its machines, I predicted 
that TI was still a company to watch. 
Hobbyists are an insignificant part of 
the market, but having them working 
on software is like having a large un- 
paid R&D department — it takes only 
one Visicalc to make a computer suc- 
cessful. 

Now, TI once again tells the hob- 
byists to drop dead. That may be 
good strategy, but I wouldn't bet on 
it. 

Using the Otrona 

Because Larry Niven and I hadn't 
got as much done on our Footfall 
book as we should have, last week we 
piled our stuff in my International 
Scout and took off for the desert. We 
ended up in Death Valley. 

We bounced over many an un- 
paved mountain and desert road, 
crossed the Amargosa River, and did 
a bit of off-roading on the side. Each 
night we checked into a motel, and 
the first thing we did was set up 
Adelle. 

I'm pleased to report that there 
were no glitches whatever. Adelle 
performed flawlessly. 

Larry found the small screen an- 
noying. Because he had to take his 
glasses off and get very close to read 
the screen, he was never happy with 
it. No matter. The Otrona has a built- 
in video-output jack, and next time I 
travel with Larry I'll take a good 
monitor. 

Meanwhile, Adelle, protected only 
by a large padded bag, jounced 
around in the back of my truck, en- 



340 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 182 on inquiry card. 



THE FORTH SOURCE 



TM 



MVP-FORTH - A Public Domain Product 

MVP Forth is fig-FORTH updated to the FORTH-79 Standard Required 
Word Set. The source is public domain. Included are an editor, FORTH 
assembler, tools and utilities, making it compatible with the instructional 
book, Starting FORTH. Except for hardware dependencies, all high level 
FORTH is transportable between all systems. Modifications and exten- 
sions can be simplified through the use of MVP-FORTH Programming 
Aids and Meta and Cross Compilers. 

MVP FORTH Books - A Series 

□ Volume 1, All about FORTH by Haydon. MVP-FORTH 
glossary with cross references to fig-FORTH, Starting FORTH 
and FORTH-79 Standard. 2 nd Ed. $25 

□ Volume 2, MVP-FORTH Assembly Source Code. Includes 
CP/M 15 , IBM-PC® , and APPLE® listing for kernel $20 

□ Volume 3, MVP-FORTH Math & Floating Point Extensions by 
Koopman. $25 

MORE COMING! 

MVP-FORTH Software - A Transportable FORTH 

□ MVP-FORTH Programmer's Kit including disk, documen- 
tation, Volumes 1 & 2 of MVP-FORTH Series (All About 
FORTH. 2 nd Ed. & Assembly Source Code), and Starting 
FORTH. Specify CP/M, CP/M 86, MSDOS IBM-PC, 
TRS-80/1® or 3. TRS Color Computer or APPLE. $150 

□ MVP-FORTH Cross Compiler for CP/M Programmer's Kit. 
Can also generate headerless code for ROM or target 

CPU $300 



□ MVP-FORTH Meta Compiler for CP/M Programmer's kit. Use 
for applicatons on CP/M based computer. Includes public 
domain source $1 50 

□ MVP-FORTH Fast Floating Point for APPLE Programmer's 
Kit. Includes 951 1 math chip on board with disk and 
documentation. $400 

□ MVP-FORTH Programming Aids for CP/M, IBM or APPLE 
Programmer's Kit. Extremely useful tool for decompiling, 
callfinding, and translating. $1 50 

□ MVP-FORTH by ECS Software for IBM-PC or ATARI® 
400/800. Standalone with screen editor. License required. 
Upgradeable $1 00 

D MVP-FORTH by ECS Software for IBM-PC or ATARI 400/800. 
Enhanced with color animation, multitasking sound, utilities, 
and unlimited run time license. $175 

□ MVP-FORTH Professional Application Development System 
(PADS) for CP/M, IBM-PC, or APPLE. A three level integrated 
system with complete documentation. Complete system for 
IBM, CP/M, or APPLE Includes 3 below $400 

□ MVP-FORTH PADS enhanced virtual system $1 50 
D MVP-FORTH PADS Programming Aids $1 50 

□ MVP-FORTH PADS Meta Compiler $1 50 

• •• MVP-FORTH operates under a variety of CPU's, computers, and 
operating systems. CP/M® disks can be supplied 8", SS/SD, 3740 
format or 5Va for Osborne® Northstar® Micro Decisions® Kaypro® or 
H89/Z89® . Specify your computer and operating system. *** 



$60 



FORTH DISKS 

FORTH with editor, assembler, and manual. 

□ APPLE by MM $1 00 D IBM-PC® by LM $1 00 
D APPLE by Kuntze $90 □ NOVA by CCI 8" DS/DD$150 
D ATARI® valFORTH $60 D Z80 by LM $50 
D CP/M® by MM $100 □ 8086/88 by LM $100 

□ HP-85 by Lange $90 P VIC FORTH byHES, VIC20 

cartridge 

Enhanced FORTH with: F-Floating Point, G-Graphics, T-Tutorial, 
S-Stand Alone, M-Math Chip Support, MT-Multi-Tasking, X-Other 
Extras, 79-FORTH-79. 
D APPLE by MM D Extensions for LM Specify 

F, G, &79 " $140 IBM, Z80, or 8086 

□ ATARI by PNS, F,G, & X. $90 □ Software Floating 

_ Point $100 

D CP/M by MM, F & 79 $1 40 n 8087 Support 

□ Apple, GraFORTH by I $75 (IBM-PC or 8086) $1 00 
D Multi-Tasking FORTH by SL, □ 951 1 Support 

CP/M, X& 79 $395 (Z80 or 8086) $100 

□ TRS-80/1 or III by MMS n Color <3 r aP hics 
F, X, &79 $130 

□ Timex by FD, tape G.X, & 
79 $45 



$100 



(IBM-PC) 
□ Data Base 

Management $200 

Requires LM FORTH disk. 
Iude | g5 C Victor 9000 by DE, G.X 



Starting FORTH 



$150 



CROSS COMPILERS Allow extending, modifying and compiling for 
speed and memory savings, can also produce ROMable code. 
•Requires FORTH disk. 

D CP/M $300 D IBM' $300 

□ 8086* $300 □ Z80« $300 

□ Northstar® $300 □ Apple II/II+ $300 
□ fig-FORTH Programming Aids for decompiling, callfinding, 

and translating. CP/M, IBM-PC, Z80, or Apple $150 



Key to vendors: 

CCI Capstone Computing Inc. 

DE Dal-E Systems 

FD Forth Dimension 

I Insoft 

LH Laxen and Harris 



LM Laboratory Microsystems 

MM MIcroMotion 

MMS Miller Microcomputer Services 

NS Nautilus Systems 

PNS Pink Noise Studio 

SL Shaw Labs 



□ 



FORTH Computer - Jupiter Ace 

□ 1 6K RAM Pack 
O 48K RAM Pack 

□ Par/Sec Interface 



$150 

$50 

$125 

$100 



FORTH MANUALS, GUIDES & DOCUMENTS 

□ ALL ABOUT FORTH by D 1982 Rochester FORTH 

Haydon. See above. $25 Proc. $25 

Q FORTH Encyclopedia by DA FORTH Primer $25 

Derick & Baker. rj Threaded Interpretive 

Programmer's manual to fig- Languages $21 

FORTH with FORTH-79 □ AIM FORTH User Man $12 

references. Flow charted, 2 nd _ _,, , .. 

CH „t D APPLE User's Manual 

Ed $25 MM $20 

□ FORTH Encyclopedia _ „_.._„__,. 

Pocket Guide $7 ° METAFORTH by 

□ And So FORTH by Huang. A ^assady $30 
college level text. $25 rj f JL s '? ms Gu,de t0 ,ig_ 

□ FORTH Programming by _ F °*" c „ DTlJ ... . **Z 
Scanlon $17 D Caltech FORTH Manual $1 2 

□ FORTH on the ATARI by E a Invitation to FORTH $20 

Floegel $8 □ PDP-11 User Man. $20 

□ Starting FORTH by Brodie. □ CP/M User's Manual, 

Best instructional manual MM $20 

available, (soft cover) $18 P FORTH-79 Standard $15 

□ Starting FORTH (hard □ FORTH-79 Standard 
cover) $22 Conversion $10 

□ 1980 FORML Proc. $25 □ Tiny Pascal fig-FORTH $10 

□ 1981 FORML Proc 2 Vol $40 p NOVA fig-FORTH by CCI 

□ 1982 FORML Proc. $25 Source Listing $15 
D 1981 Rochester FORTH □ NOVA by CCI User's Manual 

Proc. $25 includes editor, assembler, 

and utilities $25 

D Installation Manual for fig-FORTH, $1 5 

Source Listings of fig-FORTH, for specific CPU's and computers. The 
Installation Manual is required for implementation. Each $15 

D 1802 P 6502 P 6800 P AlphaMicro 

P 8080 P 8086/88 P 9900 P APPLE II 

P PACE P 6809 P NOVA P PDP-11 /LSI-11 

□ 68000 P Eclipse P VAX P Z80 

Ordering Information: Check. Money Order (payable to MOUNTAIN VIEW PRESS, 
INC.), VISA, MasterCard. COD'S $5 extra. No billing or unpaid PO's. California 
residents add sales tax. Shipping costs in US included in price. Foreign orders, pay 
in US funds on US bank, include for handling and shipping by Air: $5 for each item 
under $25, $10 for each item between $25 and $99 and $20 for each item over 
$1 00. Minimum order $1 5. All prices and products subject to change or withdrawal 
without notice. Single system and/or single user license agreement required on 
some products. 
DEALER & AUTHOR INQUIRIES INVITED 



MOUNTAIN VIEW PRESS, INC. 



PO BOX 4656 



MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA 94040 



(415)961-4103 



Circle 286 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 341 



during cold and humid weather as 
well as excessive jolt and vibration; 
and she still runs perfectly. My earlier 
conviction that 8-inch disks are more 
reliable than 5Vi-inch disks is fast be- 
ing overcome by experience. What 
could we do to those disk drives that 
we haven't done? 

Idiot Proofing 

When Tony Pietsch was over to in- 
stall Zeke II, he asked for a big card- 
board box. I went up to the attic and 
fished one out. It turned out that he 
wanted to make a cardboard modifi- 
cation for the Compupro "box." 

(Incidentally, we need a good term 
for the box that contains a microcom- 
puter's bus and power supply. It has 
become traditional to call it "the 
mainframe," which seems a bit silly 
because it's the name we also give to 
computers that are much larger than 
minicomputers. "Box," however, 
seems irreverent. Ah well.) 

Anyway, the Compupro box (case? 
enclosure?) has the bus along one 
side, then a barrier strip, and the 



power supply along the other side. 
Many other computers are built along 
more or less the same lines. 

There's considerable juice in a com- 
puter power supply. It is not a good 
place to put your fingers. It is also not 
a good place to drop tools, unless you 
like sparks. 

There's another potential problem 
when you open a computer box (at 
least for S-100 bus systems)— airflow. 
The Compupro is typical enough: it 
has a fan that blows over the power 
supply. The barrier between power 
supply and the card cage is per- 
forated, and the normal air path is 
along the power supply elements, 
through the holes in the barrier, and 
thence across the components. If, 
however, the lid is taken off the box, 
the air is not confined and instead of 
taking a circuitous route out to the 
boards, simply goes up, not cooling 
the boards at all. This can cause con- 
cern on hot days. 

The problems, then, are exposed 
source of heat and excessive oppor- 
tunity to contact unhealthy voltages. 



The Serious Game Design Tool 

For The Serious Designer 

At The Price Or A Toy For The Hobbyist 



The Game Cartridge 

Development System 

tor the Atari " 2600 

Video Computer System" 

Optional: 

Atari 5200 Supersystem 

Adapter Package. 1 



Features Include: 



No machine modiiication 
Apple II" 48K/ one disk 
drive required. 

Now Only $495 

Call today to order 

408-429-1551 

All major credit 

cards accepted, 

For high profit rewards, purchase 
the tool that can do the job at an 
unbeatable price 



The FROB-26 



f&l 



frobco 



A Division ol TYi-comp Polylechnical. Inc. 

PO. Box 8378, SantaCruz,CA 95061 

408-429-1551 
The Miracle of Creation Can Be Yours 7 ' 



Video Computer 
System is a trade- 
mark oi Atari Inc 



The remedy is simplicity itself. 

First cut a length of cardboard sized 
to fit the area over the power sup- 
ply — that portion of the system to the 
right of the barrier strip. Now put the 
cardboard over the system. If you've 
measured just right, it will stay there. 
(You may have to cut out a slot for 
the top of the fan.) 

The result is what Tony calls idiot 
proofing: the cardboard keeps 
dropped screws and tools, and your 
fingers, out of the power supply; it 
also forces the air to circulate proper- 
ly even with the case opened, result- 
ing in cooler and thus more reliable 
components. 

I expect this kind of tip is more in 
Ciarcia's line than mine, but I have to 
woo his readers somehow . . . 

Trapdoors 

I have a program that would have 
excited my mad friend no end. 

I've never known MacLean's exact 
connection with the U.S. govern- 
ment, but he does seem to have done 
some intelligence work. One thing 
that very much interested him was 
ciphers and codes. He obviously 
knew a lot about them. 

I say obviously, because he was 
fond of disassembling programs. 
Disassembly is the process of taking 
object code and turning it into source 
code. Given the source code, you can 
modify the program, Programmers 
go to great lengths to protect their 
source code. In one case, all the 
English-language text messages in the 
program had been encrypted in an at- 
tempt to ward off disassemblers. 

That might have worked for most, 
but it hardly slowed my mad friend at 
all. It took him about an hour to 
figure out what the programmer had 
done, and another two hours to solve 
the cipher. 

He was always interested in any- 
thing published about codes and 
ciphers. I particularly remember his 
excitement when the science maga- 
zines began publishing articles about 
public key cryptography systems 
(also known as trapdoor functions). 

Probably the simplest way to 
describe what public key systems do 
is to quote from the manual of a soft- 
ware package called DEDICATE/32: 

Continued on page 347 



342 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 421 on inquiry card. 




Taxan monitors- 
engineered for stylefi 
and performance* 1 



Styled to compliment Apple, IBM and most other 
personal computers, and designed to fit in any office or home. 

®TAXAI\I offers a complete line of monitors including 

green and amber, ultra-high resolution 
monochrome, plus medium and high 
resolution RGB monitors 

&TAXAIM features the 410-80, 

80 column and RGB Card to 

interface with the Apple He. 

®TAXAI\I monitors 
stand alone 

Circle 423 on inquiry card. 



It look 

hundreds of years 

to build the world's 

most advanced 

spreadsheet. 



Way back in 1534, a Venetian scholar 
wrote a text that standardized the 
techniques of modern bookkeeping. 
And up till 1979, there weren't a lot 
of real improvements in the way 
people did spreadsheets. You still 
had to enter all your figures by hand. 
Run all the totals yourself. And when 
you had to make a few changes, you 
had to run the totals all over again. 

Then along came a program that 
let you create spreadsheets on a 
personal computer. Without touching 
a pencil. Or adding anything by hand. 
Best of all, this new program gave 
you the freedom to look at your bal- 
ance sheet a dozen different ways if 



you felt like it. Because all you had 
to do was change one figure, and the 
computer would refigure everything 
else for you. Automatically. 

Like most breakthrough ideas 
though, this original spreadsheet 
program had a few things that defi- 
nitely needed improvement. For in- 
stance, all the columns had to be the 
same width. And the entire system 
took about 20 hours to learn. 

So we developed SuperCalc® 
which was such a giant step in the 



right direction that it became a best- 
seller Over 250,000 copies in only 
18 months. 

Today, we've gone even farther. 
After talking with thousands of cus- 
tomers, we've found a lot of impor- 
tant new features you'd like to have. 
And we've built them into the world's 
most advanced spreadsheet. 

SuperCalc 2 . 



1979 



1534 




■ MB Aii ultimo f 

Pro C fanno // A imi udrif , ( 
trttltoin rtjio,ptrfModi qutUol 

L * L 

Pro CT imno II A Sptft it wutr 

R>tftfditt,comt in tfft tpptr,ptrt 

C ? 

Fi((< itUi poffifiion it fAotdn // , 
ptrfiUO it <\<uU* ptr funno pre/erf 
1541 .ptrftHo it qui Bi df 4 s 

C 7 

Pro CT ittvm 1/ A Sptft imtrft | 
ftnntprtftnttjomt in ejjc «pp«r| 

399% ''f 1 " 

C - 

Pro er &HM0 1/ A Sptft it /«l«rj 

piufpcft fittt Vtmio prtfentt , col 

ptrftlioii'quttltdf+S § . 

* . 7 

Pro it zt uhi in montt II A Pro < 

littftguUttfomt in quttto dpptrA 

ito% f 1 

C ? 

j 00 P? Prottitnno/I A CtutMitmi i 



•94 
y 

y 

*9t 

y 
y 

y 
y 

197 

y 
y 

»»• 

y 
•* , 

»9« 



- + 4 

'4"B 



• 4 
•♦ ♦ 





STATEMENT 






SALES 


JAN 
1000 


FEB 
1100 


Mi 


COST 


300 


330 




GROSS 
R&D 


700 
160 


770 
176 




MARKETING 
ADMIN. 


200 
140 


224 
151 





• 


INCOME STATEMENT 




1 O 


3 NET SALES 




O 


COST OF SOODS SOLD > 






; 


' 6R0SS PROFIT 

RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT 


1 • 


• MARKET INS 

' ADMINISTRATIVE 






I • 


1 TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES ! 
INCOME BEFORE TAXES 


• 


INCOME TAXES 






1 •; 


NET INCOME 


i • ' 




•* 

2 


: 


* 7 


B 




; •' 


2 '"." 


•3 

* 


4 


i • 


g 



It'll take 

you 10 minutes to 

learn it. 




Create 

vow first 

nrodel in 



With SuperCalc? you 
get all kinds of fea- 
tures that have never 
been possible before. 
Like custom format- 
ting capabilities. Auto- 
matic consolidation. Sorting. And 
more. Take a look at the spreadsheet 
below, and you'll see just how much 
we're giving you. 

Best of all, we made it just as easy 
to use as the original SuperCalc. 
There's a self-paced starter guide 
that shows you exactly what to do, 



step by step. And an AnswerKey™ 
that gives you instant help right on 
the screen. Because of these fea- 
tures, you can actually create your 
first spreadsheet in 10 minutes flat. 
Even if you've never used a compu- 
ter before. 

SuperCalc 2 is available for the 
IBM PC and XT Where it can run in 
full color With full memory. Even on 
hard disk. It's also available for CP/M, 
CP/M-86.MS DOS and other opera- 
ting systems, so you can use it with 
most popular personal computers. 



But with all its advanced features, 
SuperCalc 2 is the same price as the 
original SuperCalc. Only $295, sug- 
gested retail. We're also offering 
SuperCalc for only $195. And an up- 
grade to SuperCalc 2 whenever 
you're ready. 

So. If you've always thought there 
had to be a better way to do your 
spreadsheets, stop by your closest 
computer store. And take a good 
look at SuperCalc 2 After just 10 min- 
utes, you won't want to do one more 
spreadsheet the old way. 



1983 



Combines 

any number of spreadsheets 

—automatically! 
/ 

COMPANY CONSOLI DATED MONTHLY PAYROLL 



Calendar/date 
capabilities. 



Percentages. 



• 



Today's Date 
Payroll Start Date 



4/15/83 
4/ 1/83 



Deduction 
Fica 



Percentages 
6 , 700% 

User-set decimal places. 

Net YTD 



Days this period 
Recalculate YTD Y/N 



SDI 



? N 



Brass 



Total 



Emp# Employee name 



Adams 



Status 



Salary 



Deduct 



49 Beckette 
84 Johnson 
92 Jones 



S 
S 
M 



$1. 100.00 < $82.50) * 

/$750.00 < $56.25) 

$850.00 ( $63.75) 

$900.00 ( $67.50) 



12 

19 

j45_ 



Samson 
Santos 
Smith 



Total # employee 




Pay 

1,01 7.50 
$693. 75 ~ 
$786.25 
$832.50 



$560.00 
$650.00 
$700.00 



7 Floating $ signs 




$518.00 
$601.25 
$647.50 



Sross 

$6,200.00 
$5,250.00 
$5,950.00 
$6j,300.00 



$3,920.00 
$4,550.00 
$4, 9 00.00 

Embedded commas. 



Total Gross Salaries* <100's) 
Total Deductions (10\'s) 
Total Net Pay <100's) 



$55. 1 
$-4.1 
$51.0 



Negative numbers in ( ). 



Arrange reports 
numerically or 



Numbers in 100s or 1000s. 



alphabetically, 
like this 




uperCalc 2 



8SORCIM 




^3T0T_undy~Avenue 

San Jose, CA 95131 

(408) 942-1 727^ 



CPfM i* a regulated trademark o( Digital R mm re ft CP/M-66 * a trademark of Digital Research MS DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machine* Corporation 1 1863 Sorcim Corporation 



THE PUKE WAR IS 8VEK! 



SMEG WIHCHESTEI $ 






OPTIONAL 




;j 



10 MEG — s 1249. 15 MEG — s 1449. 

1 &10MEG^- S 1999. 15 & 15 MEG - *2299. 

5MEG DISK CARTRIDGE s 75.00 



ADAPTOR KIT 



for IBM-PC/XT 
forTRS-80MODI 
forTRS-80MODIII 
for LNW-80 
Under Desk 
Mounting Bracket 
1 Year 
Ext. Warranty 



s 150. 
150. 
150. 
150. 

$34»s 
s 150. 



As with our Winchester Hard Disk Drive, all our 
designs are tested, re-tested and "burned in:' We're 
so proud of our quality control that we offer an 
unconditional extended warranty covering full costs 
of parts and labor on all VR Data products. 



INTRODUCTORY 
SPECIAL PACKAGE 

SAVE $ 75.00^ 

5Meg Winchester 

fixed drive ^95. 

5Meg removable Disk 

Cartridge drive s 595. 

Adaptor 

(your choice) $ 150. 

5Meg Disk 

Cartridge FREE 



VR 



date 



© 



VJ54* 



777 Henderson Boulevard N-B 

Folcrofl, PA 19032 12151461-5300 

Circle 437 on Inquiry card. 




$ 1740. 

Call Toll-Free 

800-345-8102 

ALL VR DATA PRODUCTS CARRY A 120-DAY 
WARRANTY INCLUDING PARTS & LABOR 
Published prices reflect cash discount. All prices 
are subject to change without notice. TRS-80 and 
TRSDOS are trademarks of Tandy Corp. DISK III 
is a trademark of VR Data Corp. 
8:30AM-7PM E.S.T. Mon.-Frl., Sat. 10AM-3PM 
CABLE "VRDATA" TELEX 845-124 



Circle 467 on inquiry card. 



Before public key cryptograph}/ was 
invented all crypto systems were of the 
"single key" type. A key was chosen to 
encode a message. The sender of the 
message had to communicate that key 
to the receiver of the message so that 
the receiver could decode the message. 
This meant that the key had to he 
transmitted over a secure channel, or 
that the two parties communicating 
had to make prior arrangements about 
the key. 

Public key cryptography can be 
called two key cryptography. The idea 
is that two different key pairs are gen- 
erated by each user of a system. Out of 
each pair one key is selected as the 
public key (it could be either one) and 
the other key is the secret key. 

The public key is indeed published. 
Anyone can use it. I have included 
my public key in this article (see 
listing 1). Anyone wishing to send me 
a secure message can, supposedly, use 
this published key to encode the 
message, after which the message can 
be sent in a letter, broadcast, sent by 
signal flags, or otherwise published 
without danger of compromise. 

The mathematical underpinnings 
to this kind of encryption are known 
as trapdoor functions. They're called 
that because the keys act like a trap- 
door: you can encode the message 
with the public key, but once you've 
done so, you cannot decode the 
message. Only the possessor of the 
secret key can decode. 

It works the other way, too: you 
can encode a message using your 
secret key. Now anyone can decode 
it, using your public key; but the fact 
that it decodes into a message is proof 
that the possessor of the secret key ac- 
tually sent it. Thus messages can be 
sent with a very secure signature. 

Now we have what seems to be a 
public key cryptography system. I 
say "seems to be," not because I have 
any reason whatever to doubt the 
claims of Charlie Merrit and the other 
authors of DEDICATE/32, but be- 
cause I have no means of evaluating 
the truth of their claims. 

Certainly DEDICATE/32 "works" 
in the sense that it apparently does 
what it is supposed to do. It generates 
both public and secret keys; and 
when you apply the keys, encrypted 
messages result. When you use the 
decode program, the original message 



comes back completely unaltered; 
even the formfeeds and control 
characters are intact. 

DEDICATE/32 has splendid docu- 
mentation. That, incidentally, wasn't 
always true: the preliminary docu- 
ment told me more about the theory 
of public key encryption (and might 
profitably be included as an appendix 
to the new manual), but it was very 
confusing on how to use the system. 

The new manual has only about 
500 words in it. It tells you exactly 
what the program does and how to 
accomplish it. A 12-year-old can use 
this program. I know, because I had 
one of the Boy Scouts try it without 
help from me. 

The messages that the program 
gives you are so clear and complete 
that it must have taken me about five 
seconds to get past the only minor 
omission in the manual. Hear and 
believe: this program is easy to use. 

DEDICATE/32 took about 44 sec- 
onds to encode a 37-word message. 
The encoded message (shown in 
listing 2) takes 2K bytes of file space. 
It took 40 seconds to decode. 

I then used the program to encode 
an 8K-byte text file (my vita if you 
must know). There are 1028 words in 
the file; it took 1 minute and 4 sec- 
onds to encode, and the resulting en- 
crypted file was 17K bytes long. De- 
coding that took 1 minute and 10 sec- 
onds. In both cases, the decoded files 
are byte-by-byte identical with the 
original. 

In other words, this program 
works splendidly. MacLean had 
thought that any such system would 
be quite slow; I am very pleasantly 
surprised. Indeed, that's my only 
grounds for misgivings: it just seems 
so darned easy and simple! I thought 
"unbreakable codes" would have to 
be a hell of a lot more complicated. 

I am not a cryptography expert. 
Thus my evaluation is necessarily in- 
complete because I can't tell you 
whether DEDICATE/32 actually gen- 
erates an "unbreakable" code. 

I am doing two things about that. 
First, I'm publishing a message en- 
crypted with my public key (see 
listing 2), and I'm providing the 
public key. There will be a reward 
— value not to exceed the price of a 



MEASURE, 

MONITOR & 

CONTROL 



■tiJ*-**, 



Use your computer to interact 
with the world around you! 



NOW AVAILABLE - An affordable 
analog to digital conversion board PLUS 
both direct wire and AC line carrier remote 
device control. 

Attaches to the RS-232C serial interface 
of your computer and/or modem!! 

Now you can measure the temperature, 
energy consumption, light levels, humidity, 
etc. of your home or office. With the same 
device you can monitor the status of 
window, door, fire, and smoke sensors for 
security protection. Control your lights, 
siren, stereo, or heating system in response 
to sensed inputs. 

ADC-1 features include: 

• 16 Analog to Digital Inputs (12 bits plus 
sign — Resolution 1 part in 8192). 

• 4 Digital (on/off) Inputs 

• 6 TTL Switched Outputs - Connects 
directly to solid state AC relay or other 
TTL circuits 

• Controls 32 Possible Devices via BSR, 
Leviton, Radio Shack AC line carrier 
appliance and lamp remote control 
modules. 

• Analog to Digital conversion at 14 Hz. 
Display 20 sensor array in 2.5 seconds. 

• 6 User selectable baud rates from 300 to 
9600 

• AFFORDABLE — both measurement 
and control functions for ONLY $329. 

• Includes protective enclosure with easy- 
to-use terminals for sensor attachment. 

• Sensors available from Remote 
Measurement Systems include: light, 
temperature, wind, moisture, electrical 
energy consumption, security system 
switches. 

Automate and protect your home. 
Monitor energy consumption and heat loss. 

Construct your own weather station. 
Control scientific experiments and log data. 

Uses limited only by your imagination! 




REMOTE MEASUREMENT 
SYSTEMS, INC. 

1 O Box 15544 • Seattle. Washington 9811E 
Tel. 206-525-3369 

Send for complete specifications 

Telephone. Visa and Mastercard 

orders welcome. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 347 



Listing 1: My public key as generated by 
DEDICATE/32. 

PKSKEY(tm) 
032 

AA JC NE FJ EP HN EH BG BF 

FB DB DL DE MH PB EO MH BD 

PF BB MI LO OM OG IB DK BP 

JD LF FG ME EK OF KC IB AJ 

AA PF GP KD CC KF MG GG AJ 

MP FL MH GJ JE BL LA MP AO 

KL JD AB AD LH KL PN LA BP 

MN JE MB DH HF HD PG EH BH 

good dinner, the next time I'm in the 
winner's city (or when the winner 
comes to a computer show I'm 
at) — for the first person to send me 
the plaintext of the message. 

Second, I'm putting both the public 
key and a longer message (my vita) 
onto a net that includes my friends 
Marvin Minsky, John McCarthy, and 
a whole host of top graduate students 
in computer science. If anyone can 
break this, they can; and if anyone 
does, I'll let you know what resources 
were required to do it! More than that 
I can't do. 

Understand: I have no reason 
whatever to suspect that DEDICATE/ 
32 does not do precisely what it says 
it will do, and I have a number of 
reasons, including my general impres- 
sions of Charlie Merrit, whom I met 
at Comdex, to believe that it does 
work. It's just that for once I'm over 
my head. I guess it won't be the last 
time I wish I had MacLean's advice, 
but he's on another assignment. 

Things My Postman Brings Me 

I have an unusual poison-pen let- 
ter: it is signed, but there's no return 
address. Usually there's no name. 

Apparently my columns really vex 
Paul Cystime of Colorado Springs. 
He tells me that he generally doesn't 
"have the time to respond to authors 
(and their inevitable 'articles')," and 
confesses that he has nightmares 
about this column, greatly fearing 



Listing 2: Secret message (37 words) encrypted using my public key. 

THIS IS AN ENCODED FILE 

FORMAT PKS032AXPAND00001 

ORIGINAL FILE NAME SECMSG2.TXT 

AAAJOMIMCIIAFIAHKGIHABOFJFODLDALLFGPLIJIGHHMOLLHFLHIFINONCAGHHPG 
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
LPLLDNKCPCOHJOKCOLFMCLNCPCIJIIKHFCHNJOODIKNPIODPJFJJHMJNGCOBBDLH 
IBHAMHIEEMMJGCLPPDBPAEHCIEJBLMHLFNLAOGIOCPHDOBCMKNHKJIGJJAEBOMIH 
CECGMOJGJKBMOCHMOEGKKMCCLHGGCOGAOPAMCDDAEKHOPIEFGCOGAGJLJGIHKOBL 
NJLOOEFJMHCPEKJICFAPBEMENCHOFEFIPAGDNEECPIAJOEBHDOCCNHGIEHKOOFBE 
GMFMDIDDKKNAEKNOJBGKNHAABAALPOOIPOBMPNANMPAFKACDGDEIJJKGNEJHEDKE 
NOPAKDKHBOMNFFOMNDNLDNCMLPEJNCMECCICCJAAEHCDHHKCKADKOLIFCFIBDFLN 
JJGMCFNHJCPEDKBGIJNPOHAHLIKENPGNCGFJDOIOOOFMDINBNOLBFMALNKOGBGNI 
HALBFGCONKMFMHNOEBJPNFNKDMHHLFFAHMOONIPPBFLNEKDOFBJNOMFHEMFDFCDO 



that he "will be forced to read all your 
whinning [sic] articles." He then asks 
advice. 

"Me and another feller," he says, 
"want to publish a book containing 
the usual drivel. . . . Can we get paid 
for it?" The letter is printed in dot 
matrix with a well-used ribbon; but 
Mr. Cystime found it necessary to 



I really hate to 

think of someone being 

"forced to read" my 

columns, only to 

be upset by them. 

add in neat handwriting that he has 
been wanting to get this off his chest 
for months. 

I fear I can't help him get pub- 
lished. Writer's Digest contains ar- 
ticles that might be of use. 

As to his other difficulties: my 
partner Larry Niven sometimes gets 
letters like this. Larry's reply is, 
"Reading Niven is a privilege, not a 
right. Therefore I have instructed my 
publishers not to allow you to buy 
any of my books ever again. Every 
bookstore in the country will be 
notified." 



I suppose something of the sort 
should be arranged here. Perhaps the 
subscription people could scissor my 
article out of Mr. Cystime's copy. I 
really hate to think of him being 
"forced to read" my columns when 
they so obviously upset him . . . 

Fortunately, most of my mail is far 
more interesting (at least to me). For 
all those who sent Get Well Soon 
cards to Ezekial, and condolence 
cards to me in commemoration of his 
demise, my sincere thanks. Zeke has, 
alas, been dismembered; but crucial 
portions have been combined with 
MacLean's Alice to become the new 
computer for the Los Angeles Science 
Fantasy Society Inc., so that the story 
has an almost happy ending. 

Thomas Goodey writes from 
Japan: "You blew your Otrona using 
a hair dryer converter to go from 225 
to 110. I did exactly the same thing to 
my Osborne in Thailand. Fortunately 
it was just the fuse in the power sup- 
ply. 

"I expect it was one of those very 
light converters that don't contain a 
transformer. They perform a peculiar 
chopping action on the 250 volts AC 
to produce a wave that acts like 110 
for some devices, but isn't reliable for 
delicate electronics ..." 



348 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



NEW 



BUY FACTORY 

DIRECT 
1-800-854-8174 



CONCEPT! 




A 
A 






A 

A 

A 
A 






nswers to some commonly asked 

The Company has been producing computers for 7 years now. We rep- 
resent and manufacture many different lines of computers, peripherals and 
supplies. 

The XOR series from U. S. Micro Sales comes to you factory direct; thus 
cutting out the "middleman" distributor or dealer. You get a tremendous 
cost savings!! The XOR series is fully expandable including 5'A " and 8 " 
floppies, cartridge disks, hard disks, tape backup, etc. We carry a com- 
plete line of single user systems, upgradable to multi-user, with the fastest 
operating speeds in the industry compared to such machines as Apple, 
IBM, Televideo, etc. 

U. S. Micro Sales XOR series allows you to use any standard CRT terminal, 
printer, modem, plotter, keyboard, etc. You are not stuck with peripherals 
which may not fit your needs, or poorly designed, or hard to operate, (i. e. 
IBM's keyboard, Apple's expandability) 

Our systems use the CP/M operating system which has the largest install- 
ed base of application software in the world. CP/M, versus some of the 
"fad" operating systems is tried and proven and has applications which 
have been on the market for years. 

U.S. Micro Sales carries a complete line of peripherals — 23 different CRT 
terminals, 18 printers, 6 lines of modems, etc. We also supply cables for 
whatever peripherals you order with your system. 
We provide highly documented manuals with each system. Also, the largest 
collection of free software utilities to work with your system. A Toll Free 
Customer Service "Hotline" to answer your questions and assist you with 
any field problems. We also offer extended warranties over our 1 year stan- 
dard warranty! 



Questions 

Q." How long have you been in the industry 
Q." Why should I buy an XOR system? 






Ql Why not buy an IBM or Apple instead? 






Our Toll Free Analysts are ready to answer these and 
any other questions you may have regarding your data 
processing needs. 



Circle 425 on inquiry card. 



Q." What software runs on your systems? 

Q" Where do I get peripherals when I buy your 
system? 

Q." Who helps me solve problems in the field? 



Q: What free software will I get with my system? 

Q: What will "M" Disk do for me? 

Q: What disk formats is my system compatible with? 

Q: How can I expand or upgrade my system? 

Q: What is the difference between your cartridge disk anc 
a conventional hard disk? 



MICRO MANAGER 




BASIC PROFESSIONAL 




OFFICE MASTER 





15392 Assembly Lane, Huntington Beach, CA 92649 See Page 545 for Additional Product Information 



THE CHURCH 

Information Management System 




Modulet 

!l! Mambarahlpt 

'2, Financial: 

1 3 ] Mailing Uatf 
Word Procaaalng: 

T; Spiritual Growth: 
: 5j Outraach: 



Your Guardian Angel tm 
tor Software 



Demo Packages 

available for 
Modules 1,2, 3 



d BASE II™ 

a«i« bit. cp/m"" gaapw. 



DEALER INQUIRIES WELCOME 



QMI , ,. POBo«45012S 

mClM Software Allanla Saor9(a 3034b 

Information Systems iaoa) 329-0091 



Circle 303 on Inquiry card. 



NEW ELIZA FORMATS! 



Created at MIT in 1966. ELIZA has become the world's most celebrated 
artificial intelligence demonstration program ELIZA is a non-directive 
psychotherapist who analyzes each statement as you type it in and then 
responds with her own comment or Question — and her remarks are 
often amazingly appropriate! 

Designed to run on a large mainframe, ELIZA has never before been 
available to personal computer users except in greatly stripped down 
versions lacking the sophistication which made the original program so 
fascinating 

Now, our new microcomputer version possessing the FULL power and 
range of expression of the original is being offered at the introductory 
price of only J25 And if you want to find out how she does it (or teach 
her to do more), we will include the complete SOURCE PROGRAM tor 
only J20 additional 

Order your copy of ELIZA today and you'll never again wonder how to 
respond when you hear someone say. "Okay, lets see what this com- 
puter of yours can actually do! " 

ELIZA IS AVAILABLE IN THE FOLLOWING FORMATS: 



ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE RESEARCH GROUP 

, 921 North La Jolla Avenue. Dept 3 

■■aVaffaVi Los Anoeles CA 90046 

}^^i 1213)656-7368 12131 654-2214 

•■HHaV MC. VISA and checks accepted 



Circle 35 on inquiry card. 



WHOLESALE 



BRAND NAME DRIVES 
& DISKETTES 



DIRECT TO THE PUBLIC 



DRIVES: 

TANDON 

TEAC f or 

QUME * Regular 
FOURTH DIMENSION 

MICRO-SCI 
RANA 



} 



DISKETTES: 

Sllm-Llne DYSAN 

ELEPHANT 
MAXELL 
VERBATIM 
ZIMAG 



Prices Too Low 
To Publlshl 

CONTACT: 

RM DISTRIBUTORS, INC. 

P.O. BOX 39235 
DENVER, CO 80239 
TEL. 303-371-2432 



ompuPro 



SYSTEM 81 6/ A $4260. 

128K, Retail $5495 

SYSTEM 81 6/B $51 50. 

256K, Retail $6995 

SYSTEM 81 6/C $6660. 

384K. MP/M 8-16, Retail $8995 

MORROW DESIGNS M 
MICRO DECISION 1- 

MD1 $843. MD2S1148. MD3S1983. 
(terminal $500 additional) 



Call for deep discounts on boards/drives. 

O NETCO 



OFFiCf NETWORKS CO«PO«J»f'OM 

(703) 690-3312 

Authorized CompuPro and Morrow Dealer 



Circle 301 on Inquiry card. 



©TDK 

flexible disks 

Call Free (800)235-4137 

for prices and information. 
Dealer inquiries invited. 
CO.D. and charge cards 
accepted. 




VISA' 



PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 

100 Foothill Blvd 
San Luis Obispo. CA 
93401 (In Cal call 
(805| 543-1037 ) 



Circle 310 on Inquiry card. 



PConnection 

Three functions In one card slot— 
Modem, Calendar clock. Serial port I 

The PConnection is a premium telecom- 
munications card for the IBM PC with a 
direct connect Bell I03/II3 modem, a real 
time clock, and a serial I/O port for ex- 
panded communications capabilities. The 
PConnection gives you all three functions 
in a single card sloti 

The PConnection has autodial (Touch Tone 
or pulse] and autoanswer, plus a built-in 
speaker for line status monitoring. Soft- 
ware selectable protocol and modes 
The real time clock can be used to auto- 
dial predetermined phone numbers at pre- 
set times Excellent for polling and remote 
monitoring applications. 
PConnection (plug-in modem) - S250 En- 
hanced PConnection with real time clock 
and additional RS-232 - S300 Another 
quality modem from 

thm micropmrlpborml corporation 

2565 I52nd Avenue N E. 
Redmond. WA 98052 

(206) 881-7544 

» Corporation 



Circle 351 on Inquiry can 



Circle 276 on inquiry ca 



He is right of course. Be warned: 
the usual traveler's power converter 
will not work with your portable 
computer. If you don't know quite a 
lot about power conversion, get ex- 
pert advice before going overseas. 

My Otrona has on-board conver- 
sion for almost any conceivable 
power supply; my problem was that 
in one Roman pensione the wall 
socket was very nonstandard, and the 
only thing I had that would plug into 
it was that wretched converter. It's a 
mistake I won't make again, and one 
very much worth avoiding. 

D. L. Bailey of Mitre Corporation 
informs me of a book by J. G. P. 
Barnes, entitled Programming in 
Ada. According to Mr. Bailey it is 
better organized and more readable 
than the I. Pyle book (The Ada Pro- 
gramming Language) I've previously 
recommended. 

I don't yet have a copy, but Mr. 
Bailey's letter is pretty convincing. 

On the subject of Ada, Marin 
David Condic of Chicago asks if 
there's an Ada compiler for micro- 
computers that can make use of ge- 
neric procedures and packages. The 
Janus compiler from R&R Software 
won't compile his programs because 
he makes extensive use of that 
feature. He asks, "Are you aware of 
any Ada compiler, for any small 
machine, that will handle generics?" 

I fear I don't know of any now; I 
invite reader comments. 

Fred Willink of San Jose, Califor- 
nia, comments: 'Tour column in the 
January issue was of interest because 
you mentioned that Target Planner- 
calc and the CCS computers won't 
work together. I had the same prob- 
lem. 

"Both Target Plannercalc and the 
CCS BIOS use the same reserved but 
unused area of CP/M page zero from 
50 to 5B hexadecimal. CCS uses the 
area for storage of SECTOR ID start- 
ing at 4E hexadecimal. Target Plan- 
nercalc's use of this area is unknown. 
Since source code for the CCS BIOS 
(basic input/output system for the 
CCS computer) is provided for 
customizing, this is the easiest fix. 

"The label IDSV in the DEBLOCK 
PARAMETERS at the beginning of 
the CBIOS can be deleted and moved 

Circle 108 on inquiry card. » 



20/20 




Right in any light. 
Comrex word processing monitors. 

Fluorescent. Incandescent. Natural. Artificial. Comrex has word 
processing monitors for any kind of light. The CR-5400: a compact 
nine-inch diagonal screen; the CR-5600: a twelve-inch screen. Both 
available in green, yellow green or amber displays with tack-sharp 

resolution. Easy on the eyes. Both so affordable they could 
only come from Comrex. Easy on the wallet. The CR-5400. 
The CR 5600. The monitors for your eyes, 
your lighting, your wallet, you. 












■ (213) 373 0Z80 



HHM 



:xon has the information processor. 




that really can be the start 
of something big. 




At Exxon Office Systems, we're bringing the high- 
tech office down to earth, by designing office automa- 
tion to grow the way you grow. 

You can start an office automation system simply 
with just one of our remarkable EXXON 500 Series 
Information Processors. 

Then as you grow, we can grow with you, right into 
our snared resource office automation system . . . The 
EXXON 8400 Series System. 

As a fully functioned system its capability is awe 
some. Operators can create, edit, reformat, file, share 



E^ON 

Hie future.. without the shock. 



and retrieve documents, all with the touch of a key. 

There's a dictionary, an electronic mailbox, a pro- 
gram for keeping calendars and scheduling meetings, 
a tickler file and more. 

Start automating your office now with one of our 
EXXON 500 Series Information Processors. And step 
into the future without the shock of unnecessary costs 
from expanding inefficiently. 

For more information on the EXXON 500 or our new 
office automation system, just send in the coupon 
below. Or call 800-327-6666. 

r-— — — — — —i 



OFFICE 
SYSTEMS 



Circle 166 on Inquiry card. 



luen Offlc* Sy ttwm 

P.O. Box 10184, Stamford, CT 06904 

I'd like to know more about 

Q the EXXON 8400 Series System 

□ the EXXON 500 Series Information Processor 

Please have your representative call. 



Name 

Company- 
Address 



.Title. 



City 

Telephone . 



. State 



. Zip. 



800-327-6666. mi in 

■ a IN CONNECTICUT. 800-843-2! 



Items Reviewed 

Catalog 

CP/M User's Group 
1651 Third Ave. 
New York, NY 10028 

Comm-Pac 
Power-Pac 
Start-Pac 

Osborne Computer Corporation 

26500 Corporate Ave. 

Hayward, CA 94545 

(800) 772-3545, ext. 905 (California) 

(800) 227-1617, ext. 905 (outside California) 

DEDICATE/32 

Digital Marketing 
2670 Cherry Lane 
Walnut Creek, CA 94596 
(415) 938-2880 

also available from 

Public Key Systems 
POB 1130 

Fayetteville, AR 72702 
(501) 442-0914 

Ex-Mon 

JMM Enterprises Inc. 
115 Battersby St. 
Enumclaw, WA 98022 
(206) 825-1637 

Interstellar Drive 

Pion Inc. 
101R Walnut St. 
Watertown, MA 02172 
(617) 923-8009 



$10 



$265 

$345 

$49.95 



$250 



$39.95 



$1095 



16-bit 
8-bit 



$150 
$250 



2400 sheets (includes shipping) $41 .95 



$69.50 



Microcache 

Microcosm Research 
26 Danbury St. 
London Nl 8JU, England 
01-226-9092 

also available from 
Workman and Associates 

Smooth Edge Paper 

Bob's Charts 
405 East Third St. #206 
Long Beach, CA 90802 
(213) 435-3492 

The Transporter 

Workman and Associates 
112 Marion St. 
Pasadena, CA 91106 
(213) 796-4401 

Books Reviewed 



Bits, Bytes, and Buzzwords: 

Understanding Small Business Computers $7.95 

Mark Garetz. Beaverton, OR: Dilithium Press, 1983, 110 pages 

(800) 547-1842 

(503) 646-2713 

Data Base Management Systems $16.95 

David Kruglinski. Berkeley, CA: Osborne/McGraw-Hill, 
1983, 260 pages 
(800) 227-2895 
(415) 548-2805 

TRSDOS 2.3 Decoded & Other Mysteries $29.95 

James Farvour. Upland, CA: IJG Inc., 1983, 304 pages 
(714) 946-5805 



to the BEGDAT area at the end, as 
follows. First find 

; DEBLOCK PARAMETERS 

WRALL: EQU 



and delete 
IDSV: 



EQU 4EH ;Sector ID 
Save area 



Then find 

BEGDAT EQU $ 
and add 
IDSV: 



DS 8 ; Sector ID 

Save area 



Assemble and install as in the CCS 
manual." 

CCS people I've consulted tell me 



this should work just fine and may 
prevent problems with other CP/M 
programs. 

Mr. Willink has been using Target 
Plannercalc 1.01 for some time. In 
general he likes it, but finds a few 
problems. "If you should create a 
model and run out of memory, that 
model becomes useless even after you 
have deleted portions to decrease the 
size. Also I have found that there can 
be letter combinations in the heading 
of the model that cause the system to 
reboot instead of saving changes. . . . 
Otherwise, I find it well worth the 
$50 price." (I understand that the 
price has been increased to $99.) 

I'm sending a copy of his letter to 
Comshare Target. 

Really Great Paper 

One problem with text printed by 
computer is that it has those telltale 
featheredges. I remember MacLean 
trying all kinds of gimmicks, in- 



cluding a terribly expensive bone 
paper separator, but nothing worked. 

That's no longer true. I've been sent 
a sample of smooth-edge 20-pound 
bond that has perforations so fine I 
wouldn't have believed it came from 
tractor-fed fanfold if I hadn't torn it 
apart myself. I expect this to catch 
on; I may even have my letterhead 
printed on it. 

Of course it costs about twice what 
regular fanfold costs. 

Things My Postman . . ., Part 2 

I do read all my mail, and I try to 
answer it. However, it's getting be- 
yond my capabilities. 

I'm attacking the problem in sever- 
al ways. First: we're adding a micro- 
computer intern to the staff. That will 
let us get at a lot more software. 

Second: I enjoy letters and most of 
them contain really valuable informa- 
tion. Reading the mail isn't the prob- 
lem, it's answering it. You can help 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 353 



by enclosing a self -addressed stamped 
envelope, and please leave room on 
your original letter for a reply. It's 
comparatively easy to write an 
answer on the bottom of your letter 
and put the whole thing back in an 
envelope; while if we have to fire up 
the machines to write an answer, it 
may not get done at all. 

Third: make sure your address is 
on the letter itself, not just the 
envelope. Envelopes often vanish. 

Fourth: if you have information 
and questions, it helps a lot if you put 
them on separate sheets of paper. 
That way I can send you back the 
sheet with your questions and keep 
the one with the information. This is 
particularly important if what you've 
sent me is a complaint that you want 
sent to someone whose products I 
have favorably reviewed. 

Fifth: I don't mind being warned 
about defective products; indeed, if 
I've recommended them I very much 
want to hear. But I can't solve the 
problems of the world. If you bought 
something I haven't recommended, 



I'll be glad to hear from you, but I'm 
unlikely to do anything about it. 

Finally: those who have products 
they want reviewed should make it 
clear that's what you have in mind. 
Please don't send me long brochures 
and complicated order forms. I am 
not likely to buy your products, and 
if I were to buy them, it would most 
likely be at a computer show. 

Regarding review items: I am not 
an agent or employee of BYTE. 
Materials sent to me through BYTE 
are forwarded; but review materials 
simply sent to BYTE aren't likely to 
reach me. If you want a BYTE review 
of your product, please direct your 
inquiries to the editorial staff. If you 
want my evaluation, your best route 
is to send me a letter describing what 
your product does, making it clear 
what I should do and what conditions 
you expect me to accept. We will then 
make direct contact and send you a 
statement of policy. 

If you're interested in both formal 
review by the BYTE staff and my 
evaluation, do both of the above. 



The Future 

Coming soon: a big roundup of C 
compilers. I have almost a dozen, and 
some are excellent. 

Also, a great number of you have 
taken the trouble to use my "bench- 
mark" program with a number of lan- 
guages and systems. I've made a few 
more tests myself. It's time to collect 
all those times into one monster 
chart. I'd have done it for this month, 
but Larry and I had to go to the 
desert. ■ 



Jerry Pournelle welcomes readers' 
comments and opinions. Send a self- 
addressed stamped envelope to ferry 
Pournelle, c/o BYTE Publications, 
POB 372, Hancock, NH 03449. Please 
put your address on the letter as well as 
on the envelope. Due to the high 
volume of letters, Jerry cannot 
guarantee a personal reply. 



About the Author 

Jerry Pournelle is a former aerospace 
engineer and current science-fiction writer who 
loves to play with computers. 



CONSTRUCTION 
SOFTWARE 

CONSTRUCTION SOFTWARE WRITTEN BY A 
GENERAL CONTRACTOR 



ACCOUNTING: PRICE 
NONUNION PAYROLL.. $75.00 
UNION PAYROLL 375.00 

WfUNION REPORTS 
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE. .75.00 
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE... 89.00 

W/SLECT PAY 
GENERAL JOURNAL &. .89.00 

WfGENERAL LEDGER 
J0BC0ST REPORTING. .89.00 

100-500 JOBS 



UTILITIES: PRICE 

PAYMENT REQUEST... $75.00 
ESTIMATION EXTEN.. . .75.00 

BIO ITEM FILE 499.00 

QUANTITY ESTIMATE... 75.00 
C.P.M. SCHEDULER... 49.00 
W0RKITEM COSTING. .85.00 

EQUIPMENT MAINT 85.00 

TRUCK COSTING 49.00 



THE ABOVE RUN ON ANY CP/M SYSTEM WITH BASIC-80 DISK FOR- 
MATS AVAILABLE ARE: OSBORNE, XEROX, IBM, CP/M-86 8 OR 5'/i 
INCH DISK: TWO DRIVES REQUIRED AND 62K 



CONSTRUCTION SOFTWARE COMPANY 

1014 EAST GEORGIA ST. RUSTON, LOUISIANA 71270 



LA. RESID. ADD 5% 
SALES TAX ADD $4 
SHIPPING PER PACKAGE 



CPIM TRADEMARK OF 
DIGITAL RESEARCH, INC 
AND BASIC 80 TRADEMARK OF 
MICROSOFT INC. 



ORDER LINE NUMBER 
(318) 251-0810 




354 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 111 on inquiry card. 



Circle 446 on inquiry card. 



■Bil«l 




1 1 •('.'«•« ii-ik't 

The MfcmOne is a professional computer that takes advantage of the CP/M® 2 2 Operating System to 
give the user access to thousands of business programs. Its excellent hardware capabilities are matched only 
by its outstanding software package valued alone at more then $1600. 

All these features, coupled with its remarkable size of 2.75"x8"xl2" and light weight of only 5 lbs makes 
it an offer hard to beat. 



One Hardware Features 

4MHZZ80A® CPU 
64K bytes RAM memory 
500K bytes 3W disk drive 
Two RS-232 serial ports 
Centronics parallel printer port 
Hard disk interface port 

One Software Features 

CP/M® 2.2 DOS 

Perfect Writer™ word processor program 
Perfect Speller™ spelling chekcer program 
Perfect Calc™ spread sheet program 
Perfect Filer T M information filing program 



Optional Features 

• Additional disk drives 

• 6MHZZ80B® CPU operation 

• Additional serial port 

• Additional modem port 

• Additional software 

• CRT Terminal (available soon) 

• Hard disk drive (available soon) 



EMS 



Educational 

Microcomputer 

Systems 



P.O. Box 16115 • Irvine, CA 92713 • (714) 553-0133 



CP/M Registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 
Z80 is a trademark of Zilog, Inc. 

Perfect Writer, Perfect Speller, Perfect Calc, Perfect Filer 
are trademarks of Perfect Software, Inc. 



Circle 153 on inquiry card. 




Game Contest #* 



After reviewing the 77 entries we received for the second BYTE game contest, we think it's safe to draw the inference 
that Apple owners are enthusiastic game players. Of the total number of entries, 26 were written for the Apple II. The re- 
maining two-thirds break down this way: 1 6 for the TRS-80 Color Computer, 1 for the IBM Personal Computer, and the 
other 25 are divided among the TRS-80 Models I, II, and III, the Commodore VIC-20, and the Atari 400 and 800. 

We will have a pictorial essay on the winning games in the September 1 983 issue of BYTE. It will include details on order- 
ing selected games in disk format. Look for us then. 

Given the preponderance of Apple-based entries, it should come as no surprise that the majority of the winning games 
are for the Apple II. Here are this year's winners: 



¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ 



Second place ($300 and a 
jacket) goes to Shawn Day of 
British Columbia for a simple but 
professional-looking Apple assem- 
bly-language arcade game called 
Sizzle. As alien invaders drop to 
the ground, you push a barbecue 
cart across the bottom of the 
screen trying to catch as many as 
possible. Other factors complicate 
the game. 






First place ($500 cash 

prize plus a custom BYTE jacket) 
goes to Aaron Pratt of Ypsilanti, 
Ml, for his two-player two- 
computer tank warfare game called 
Dual Duel. Reminiscent of the Atari 
arcade game Battlezone, it places 
you inside a tank driving around a 
plain containing several obstacles 
such as two pyramids and two 
blocks, and an enemy tank. As you 
move, the three-dimensional 
scenery changes in real time. The 
object of the game is to be the first 
to "kill" the enemy tank 10 times; 
it runs on two Apple Ms, two Atari 
800s, or one of each. 



t 



Third place ($150 and a 

jacket) goes to William P. Porter of 
Coral Springs, FL, for his TRS-80 
Model I game, Juggle. Playing against 
yourself in real time, you try to 
keep as many video "balls" as possi- 
ble in the air at one time. 



*¥■¥•*¥•¥-*¥-*¥-¥•¥-¥**¥- 



*■ 



Fourth Place ($ 1 00 and a 

jacket) goes to C. Anthony Ray of 
Urbana, IL, (second-place winner of 
last year's contest) for an in- 
teresting arcade-type Apple II game 
called It's the Pits. You maneuver an 
animated Grimpit through a maze in 
search of nutritious yumyums. 
Several complications make the 
game more interesting; one such 
complication is that the maze 
"walls" are actually pits— one false 
move, and you've "killed" one of 
your three Grimpits. 



Fifth place ($100 and a 
jacket) goes to William Hubbard of 
Tuscon, AZ, who wrote an Apple- 
soft strategy game for the Apple II 
called Rescue. To play, you fly a 
rescue helicopter over islands in the 
Pacific Ocean in search of stranded 
ocean-liner passengers. 



356 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Introducing a sensible solution 
to the problems of dBASE II 





dBASE II 


The Sensible Solution 


Records Per File 


65,535 


999,999 


Maximum Record Size 


1,024 bytes 


1,536 bytes 


Fields Per Record 


32 


384 


Key Fields Per File 


7 


10 


Number of Files 
Simultaneously Accessible 


2 


10 


Number of Screens Per Program 


Limited by 
system memory 


Limited only by 
system storage 


Data Dictionary 


No 


Yes 



We don't mean to debase dBASE II, but if 
you're looking for a data base manager that's long 
on features, dBASE II can come up a little short. 

For instance, a single dBASE II record can only 
contain 32 fields. And when you need to share 
information between one file and another, you can 
only access two at a time. 

So, as good as dBASE II is, its limitations can 
quickly paint you into an electronic corner. 

And that's why we created The Sensible Solution. 

Finally 
A sensational relational. 

Along with all the usual things you expect 
from a data base manager, The Sensible Solution lets 
you handle the kind of tough assignments that 
dBASE II can't: 

You can design data files with more than 300 
variables. You can create reports using 10 different 
files at once. You can even set up file locking for 
multi-user computers. 



Ready to get down to business. 

A data base manager without ready-to-run 
application programs is hardly worth the disk it's 
copied on. 

So, along with The Sensible Solution, you can 
also add The Sensible Solution Bookkeeper"* or 
Sensible Management™ our complete one-entry 
accounting and management system. 

They're both affordable. Business-tested. And 
supplied with source code so you can make your 
own modifications. 

A sensible trial offer 

When you purchase The Sensible Solution, 
we'll send along a special trial disk that lets you create 
forms and enter a limited number of records. 
If, after 30 days, you're not satisfied, just return the 
unopened master system disk for a full refund. 

So why not take us up on our trial offer? You've 
got nothing to lose. 

Except the problems of dBASE II. 



The Sensible Solution 

To order, write or call: O'Hanlon Computer Systems, 11058 Main Street, Bellevue, WA 98004 USA, 

Phone (206) 454-2261. Prices: The Sensible Solution -$695, Sensible Solution Bookkeeper -$495, Sensible 

Management— $895. In Washington, add 6.5% state tax. VISA, Mastercard and dealer inquiries welcome. 

dBASE 11 is a registered trademark of AshtonTate. Sensible Solution, Sensible Solution Bookkeeper and Sensible Solution Management are trademarks of O'Hanlon Computer Systems, Inc 



Circle 479 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 357 



No two businesses 
are alike either. 

Your business is unique. 

And your problems are unique. 

So, if you want to buy a small business 
computer, where can you go to get some 
understanding and help? 

IBM. 

We have a range of small business com- 
puters starting at under $4,000. There's 
one that can be tailored to fit your unique 
needs and grow as your business grows. 

Thousands of software programs are 
written for IBM. So whether your business 
is agriculture or zoology, you can find the 
right software, right away. 

If you ever need help, IBM has the most 
experienced and widely skilled service or- 
ganization in the business. 

If you didn't think IBM offered so much 
to solve your unique problems, think of it 
this way: 

We're unique too. 

For a free brochure or demonstration of 
IBM's small business computers call your 
local IBM sales office or our toll-free 
number below. "Z"Z"L ^ sr 



Call IBM Direct 1 800 631-5582 Ext. 119. In Hawaii/Alaska 1 800 526-2484 Ext. 119. 
(Or write IBM, DRM, Dept. 1K3106, 400 Parson's Pond Drive, Franklin Lakes, N.J. 07417) 



Circle 195 on inquiry card. 



Software Review 



CP/M Plus 



This new disk operating system is faster 
and more efficient than CP/M 



by Mark Dahmke 



CP/M Plus is an advanced disk operating system for 
8-bit microcomputers, the latest in a series of systems 
from Digital Research. CP/M Plus includes all the 
familiar features of its predecessor, CP/M version 2.2, 
but it is much faster and much more efficient. For exam- 
ple, it automatically logs in new disks whenever they are 
inserted into the disk drives. And, with certain disk 
drives, it can even let you know when the disk drive door 
is open. 



At a Glance 

Name 

CP/M Plus 

Type 

Operating system 

Manufacturer 

Digital Research 

POB 579 

Pacific Grove, CA 93950 

|408) 649-3896 

Format 

8-inch floppy disk (CP/M format); other formats available from 
various manufacturers 

Computer 

Most computers that use one of the 8080 family of 
microprocessors [8080, 8085, or Z80) 

Programs and Utilities Included 

DATE, COPYSYS, DEVICE, DIR, DUMP, ED, ERASE, GENCOM, 
GET, HELP, HEXCOM, INITDIR, LIB, LINK, MAC, RMAC, PATCH, 
PIP, PUT, RENAME, SAVE, SET, SETDEF, SHOW, SID, SUBMIT 

Price 

S350 



Before we discuss CP/M Plus, however, I'd like to give 
some background information on CP/M itself. CP/M 
stands for Control Program for Microcomputers. De- 
veloped by Digital Research for the 8080 microprocessor, 
it is now widely used on 8085-, Z80-, and 8080-based ma- 
chines as well as on the newer 16-bit microcomputers, 
such as those based on the 8086 and 8088. (CP/M-86, for 
example, runs on the IBM Personal Computer.) It is also 
available for the Motorola 68000 in the form of CP/M- 
68K. People often find the name CP/M confusing 
because it doesn't adequately describe the program's pur- 
pose. CP/M is actually a DOS (disk operating system), as 
are Apple's DOS 3.3 and Radio Shack's TRSDOS. 

CP/M was developed in 1973 by Gary Kildall, then a 
consultant to Intel, who wrote it for use on his own Intel 
development system. Many microcomputer manufac- 
turers later decided to adapt CP/M to their hardware 
rather than develop their own operating systems. Conse- 
quently, a large user base began developing as early as 
1975. CP/M experienced several revisions — from a ver- 
sion that could run only on the Intel MDS development 
system to a more flexible version that could be adapted to 
other computers in a hardware mix-and-match style. As 
more manufacturers decided to use CP/M, more soft- 
ware was written for and adapted to it. Although CP/M 
has its faults, the microcomputer industry has made that 
program its de facto standard. 

Why CP/M? 

CP/M is included as the standard operating system on 
many 8080 and Z80 computers, such as the Osborne 1. It 
is also available for such computers as the TRS-80 Model 
II and the Apple II. The former machine comes with a 
Z80 microprocessor and readily adapts to CP/M. 



360 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 477 on Inquiry card.- 



Presenting Hyperion™, the world's 
most powerful, portable computer 
developed tor the busy professional. 



xx\ ^ 




Standard Features 



Hyperion is a true portable, 
weighing in at only 18 pounds. It is 
light on the eyes with its European 
amber screen and styling. But heavy 
on performance with many 
standard features which are 
expensive necessities for other 
personal computers. And all for a 
price that's less than you'd expect. 



Hyperion is bright. Communicating 
with the world is easy with our 
integrated voice and data 
package. Standard is our 256K RAM 
memory, essential for the new 
generation of application 
programs. 

Hyperion has the same processor, 
graphics and operating system as 
the IBM P.C. However, an improved 
keyboard ties the function keys to 
our screen soft keys. All this means 
Hyperion can run popular IBM 
software right off the shelf - Visi 
Calc f , Word Star*, Data Base II* and 
many, many others. 

Hyperion is the rising star in personal 
computers. Catch a rising star 
today. 



Optional Extras 



Processor 



Intel 8088 Drive Additional 5V 320K drive 



Software 



MS DOS 

Advanced Basic (Microsoft) 
Advanced User Interface* 



Communication 



Memory 256K User Bam* 

Drives 5 1 /4", 320K bytes, IBM compatible 

Virtual Ram Disk (Up to 1MK)' 



. . . INJOUCH telephone 

management system 

Built in 300 baud modem (103J) 

Direct connect 



Acoustic Cups Uses internal modem 



Expansion Chassis 



Display System T Non-glare amber 

Graphics - IBM PC compatible 

Full 80 x 25 character format 

Auto screen off for prolonged life 



,5 or 10 MB of hard disk 

...Up to 7 slots for IBM 

compatible cards 



Carrying Case 



Attractive case with 
accessory pockets 



Serial Port .... 


... . RS232C* 


...RS423* 




Parallel Port . . 


. . Centronics/IBM compatible' 



Other Features..,, Time and date clock with 
battery back-up' 

Additional video output for external 

monrtor* 

•These extras worth over $1000. 



I III HI II T 



11.3" 
(28.8 cm) 



Mufripkuv Hyperion enhanced 


1»t 


Hyperion enhanced 


INSCRIBE ..... 


Word processor 



I I 


I Jl I 


— — — — — — 


I 





♦Vlsl Calc Is a trademark of Vlsicorp 
f Word Star is a trademark of Micropro 
International Corp. 

'Data Base II Is a trademark of Ashton Tate 
'Multiplan is a trademark of Microsoft Corp. 
'123 is a trademark of Lotus Development Corp. 




T 



8.8" 
(22.3 cm) 



■18.3"(46.4cm)- 



nyi^Gni pwi i 

M I the world's most powerful 
porta ble computer 

The Bytec Group North America: (613) 226-7255; Telex 053-3358 
Europe: U.K. 04026 4926; Telex 894222 




(TRSDOS, Radio Shack's standard operating system, is 
similar to CP/M, but not sufficiently similar to permit it 
to run CP/M programs directly.) Running CP/M on the 
Apple II requires the addition of a Softcard from Micro- 
soft. Although using a Softcard lets you run CP/M-based 
applications programs on an Apple II, that approach 
might not be the best way to gain access to the wide range 
of CP/M-compatible software on the market. One prob- 
lem arises because many CP/M business software 
packages require 8-inch disk drives with 240K bytes of 
disk space on each drive. You can provide this capacity 
on an Apple II with add-on boards; however, your total 
investment to upgrade that system would cost you ap- 
proximately as much as a new CP/M-compatible system 
would. 

What Do You Get When You Run CP/M? 

CP/M consists of several subsections. The first one is 
the basic disk operating system, or BDOS, the coor- 
dinating entity that accepts commands in the form of a 
code number and optional data or address values that 
specify the action to be performed. It then calls on the 
basic input/output system, or BIOS, for help in carrying 
out your instructions. The BIOS is customized to a com- 
puter system. It has device drivers coded in assembly 
language that perform such functions as disk read/write, 
console-input, console-output, and printer-output opera- 
tions. 

Another important part of CP/M is the console com- 
mand processor, or CCP. The command processor runs 






HIGH-MEMORY FFFF 



TPA-TOP 





BUFFERS 




BIOS 




BDOS 






LOADER (RSX) 








TPA 




0100 
0000 




CCP 




PAGE ZERO 



V AVAILABLE 
'TPA 



LOW-MEMORY 

Figure 1: The CP/M Plus nonbanked-memory organization. As 
in CP/M 2.2, the first page (256 bytes) of memory is reserved 
for the operating system. The TPA (transient program area) 
starts at location 0100 hexadecimal and extends to the bottom of 
the BDOS (basic disk operating system) . The BIOS (basic input/ 
output system) starts at the top of the BDOS and extends to the 
top of available memory. The LOADER is a resident system ex- 
tension used by the CCP (console command processor) to load 
programs; it can also be called by a user program. The CCP is 
treated like any other program in CP/M Plus; in contrast, it's 
loaded at the top of the TPA in CP/M 2.2. 



EXTRA BANKS 
DON'T HAVE 
TO FILL THE \ 
ENTIRE 
ADDRESS SPACE 





LRU DATA BUFFERS 








RESIDENT BIOS 
(IK BYTES) 


i COMMON (NONBANKED) 
'MEMORY 4K TO 16K BYTES 




RESIDENT BDOS 
(1.5 KBYTES) 






" 


LOADER 








TPA i 




^ — > ^w 


TPA 




IF PRESENT, 
BANKS 2-15 
MAY BE USED 
FOR ADDITIONAL 
TABLES AND 
BUFFERS. 


ALLOCATION AND 
CHECKSUM VECTORS 


BANKED BIOS 
( ±3 KBYTES) 


BANKED BDOS 
(11KBYTES) 


LRV 

DIRECTORY BUFFERS 


HASHED 
DIRECTORY TABLES 


COPY OF CCP 
FOR WARM START 
(OPTIONAL) 










CCP 








PAGE ZERO 


BANK 






BANK 1 




BANK 2 
(OPTIONAL) 



Figure 2: The CP/M Plus banked-memory organization. Up to 16 banks can be supported, although only two are required for opera- 
tion of the banked version. Bank contains the bulk of the BDOS and BIOS as well as all the extra buffers. Bank 1 is used to run pro- 
grams and contains a small part of the BIOS and BDOS in common memory. The block of common memory must be at least 4K 
bytes long and must reside at the top of the address space. 



362 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 




THE MICRO COMPUTER BUSINESS 

WILL GROW FROM $10 TO $100 BILLION 

IN THE NEXT EIGHT YEARS! 

ARE YOU READY TO CASH IN? 



The micro computer business is predicted to grow from its present $10 billion to $100 billion before 1990' Imagine the 
possibilities this opens for you! No matter where you live, if you're starting up or presently in business, no other industry offers 
you more opportunities! 

Now, finally, all the inside information you need to secure a prosperous future in this dynamic industry is available in 
one place - THE COMPUTER ENTREPRENEUR MANUAL! An immense information source, compiled by our inquisitive research 
team, aided by a panel of experts and business people from all areas of the computer industry! 

We present the inside story of more than 100 lucrative computer businesses you can enter, where you'll find the real 
opportunities for the eighties: from one man operations like Programming Author, Word Processing Center or Consulting, to 
Systems House, Service Bureau, Computer Store etc! Many at little or no investment! All the invaluable facts and figures: 
How to start, Capital needs, Profit estimates and Margins, How to Sell and Market, How missing technical or business 
experience need not stand in your way, Source of Suppliers, etc! Details that could take years to find out on your own! 

We'll show you inside tricks, like how to never again pay retail for computer products and consumer electronics, even for 
one item - right now, while you re starting your business! How to get free merchandise and trade show invitations, etc. This alone 
will more than pay for the manual! You'll read actual case histories of other computer entrepreneurs, so you can learn from their 
mistakes, and profit from their success stories! Where you'll be one year from now depends on your actions today! Let us 
show you how to take the first crucial steps! 

Order now and take advantage of our limited introduction special, THE COMPUTER ENTREPRENEUR MANUAL, and a 
six month subscription to THE COMPUTER ENTREPRENEUR REPORT/NEWSLETTER ( so you're always up-to-date with the 
industry ). both for only $29.95! You must be convinced on how easy you can strike it rich in the micro computer business - or you 
may return the manual for a full refund within thirty days! USE OUR TOLL FREE NUMBER TO ORDER! 




EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW 

TO SUCCEED IN THE COMPUTER BUSINESS 

IS ALL IN THIS MANUAL! 



THE COMPUTER ENTREPRENEUR MANUAL has the answers to all your questions about 
selecting, starting and succesfully running a computer business! There has never been such a 
comprehensive collection of know-how and information about this business in one place! All the 
facts you need to plan and acheive your goals in easy-to-follow, step-by-step instructions! 

These are some of the 100-plus businesses covered in PART ONE of the manual, with the 
facts on How to start and run, Start-up Cost ( Even how to operate on a shoestring ). What profits 
to expect. Wholesale prices. Mark-ups, Suppliers, future outlook, case histories for each, etc: 
Systems House, Software Author ( who to sell to and who to avoid ), Service Bureau, Soft- 
I ware Publisher ( How to find programs that sell. Word Processing Service. Consulting and Con- 
"sultant Broker I use your skills or those of others, make $150 - $1000 a day!), The incredible 
Games Business. Computer Store ( Franchises Pro and Contra, or a low inventory store in your 
home! ). OEM, Hardware Mfg, Data base and Teletext Service ( big prospects! ). Used Com- 
puters, Repairs. Rent-A-Computer, Promote Fests and Trade Shows. Turnkey Systems. 
Bartering, Mail Order. Compile and rent mailing lists. Specialized Data Headhunting and Temp Help Service, Tech Writer Shop. Custom Engineering. The 
highly profitable Seminars and Training Business, and many more! 

Many new ideas and ground floor opportunities! Interviews and success stories on companies of all sizes! Privy info on the profits made: How some 
computer store operators net $100 - $250,000! Little known outfits that made their owners millionaires, one of these low-key companies, making simple boards, 
went from nil to $20,000,000 and 100 employees in four years! Programmers that make $300,000. Thousands of micro millionaires in the making etc 1 

Whatever your goal is - Silicon Valley Tycoon, or |ust a business at home - we guarantee you II find a business to suit you - or your money back! 

PART TWO of the manual is loaded with the know-how and "streetfighting" savvy you need, both as a novice or business veteran, to get started, to stay 
and to prosper in the micro computer business 1 A goldmine of information in clear and easy-to-use instructions: How to prepare your Business Plan, Outside 
financing, The mistakes you must avoid. How to hire and manage employees. Incorporation ( when, and how to do it cheaply ), Surviving bad times. Record 
Keeping, how to estimate your market before you start, Use multiple locations to maximize profits, how to promote and stay steps ahead of the competi- 
tion! How to get free advertising, free merchandise, free advice. Power negotiating with suppliers to double your profit margins, etc! Even how to keep a 
present job while starting a business part time! 

Don't miss this opportunity to be part of this great industry - the next success story could be your own! Order the manual today! Part one and two. 
bound in a deluxe ring binder, where you can also collect our newsletter ( free for six months with the manual - a $32.50 value! ) - all for only $29.95! 

Order by phone (Credit cards only), or use the coupon: 




"©^ 



Ml I II 1 1 It III II lllllltl tlillltll til IMII 111 II III II I 



THE COMPUTER ENTREPRENEUR NEWSLETTER - 

ALL THE LATEST INSIDE RUSINESS NEWS! 
NOW! SIX MONTHS FREE WITH YOUR MANUAL! 

You're always attuned to the industry and your 
manual kept up-to-date, with our newsletter! Each issue has 
the latest business news, ideas, new suppliers, our in 
dispensible "watchdog" column on profits, discounts 

( don't miss mfg's promos, like recently, when top video moni- 
tor sold at $80 - that's half wholesale, one third of the retail 
price! ), the competition, the big deals, etc! Feature stones 
with start-up info and case histories on new micro busi- 
nesses! 

You 'II get invitations to trade shows and conventions, 
the usage of our advisory service and our discount buying 
service for your purchases 1 

You'll find many items in our newsletter that will save 
you the cost of your manual many times over! 



CALL TOLL FREE! 

CHARGE IT! 

Credit Card Orders 

( MC. VISA only ) 

accepted 24 hours/day 

1-800-227-3800 
Ask for extension 1135 


i^H^ffij VtSA 



Mail 10 THE COMPUTER ENTREPRENEUR PUBLISHING CO 
PO BOX 456, Grand Central Station, New York, N.Y. 10163 

Please send me THE COMPUTER ENTREPRENEUR 
MANUAL, and the six month free subscription to 
THE COMPUTER ENTREPRENEUR REPORT/NEWSLETTER. 
All for only S29.95, plus S3 for postage/handling ( NY resi- 
dents: add S2 64 for sales tax } If I decide not to keep the 
manual. I may return it within 30 days for a full refund. 



= NAME: 



= ADDRESS: 



= CITY. STATE. ZIP: 

= D Check or MO. enclosed Charge to H VISA □ MC 

| CARD# 

| Exp. Date: 



SIGNATURE: 



B 0783 



c 1982, THE COMPUTER ENTREPRENEUR 



Circle 94 on inquiry card. 



Circle 6 on Inquiry card. 



QUALITY 

SERVICE 

AVAILABILITY 



ACTIVE, YOUR 

NUMBER ONE 

CHOICE 



™'rH 



rsMtia m a imi%%v« 

•^^|4j^fi_ . _* ♦_ _•/ ->' 



yfiaeitAauety oi top quaTfTy Wrli/cWtfoctorSv \ 



newts antitfecfroniB components. 



AVAILABLE! t2SM Revised 1983 



atalog \ 

serfous hobby rst, 
experimenter, student or professional 



VLJ'miiW* 



/Circle No. 6 on tree information card oryvrite: 

rwassrflf 

CALL/TOLL FREE: 1 -8p0-343-0$74 

I MASS, customers call Qi7) 366osoo \ 




DEVELOPMENT HARDWARE/SOFTWARE 

GTEK MODEL 7128 EPROM PROGRAMMER 



EEPROM 


MPU'S 


5213 


8748 


5213H 


8748H 


X2816 


8749 


48016 


8741 


I2S16A 


8742 




8751 



Microprocessor based intelligence for ease of 
use and interface. You send the data, the 
7 1 28 takes care of the rest. 
RS-232 interface and ASCII data formats 
make the 7128 compatible with virtually 
any computer with an RS 232 serial inter- 
face port. 

Auto-select baud rate. 
Use with or without handshaking. 
Bidirectional Xon/Xoff supported. 
CTS/DTR supported. 
Devices supported as of DEC 82. 
NMOS NMOS CMOS 
2758 2508 27C16 
2716 2516 27C32 
2732 2532 C6716 
2732A 2564 27C64 
2764 68766 
27128 8755 
27256 

Read pin compatible ROMS also. 
Automatic use of proper program voltage 
based on type selected. 

Menu driven eprom type selection, no per- 
sonality modules required. 

(40 pin devices require adapter) 
INTEL. Motorola and MCS-86, Hex formats 
Split facility for 16 bit data-paths. Read, pro- 
gram, and formatted list commanas also. 
Interupt driven type ahead, program and 
verify real time while sending data. 
Program single byte, block, or whole eprom. 
Intelligent diagnostics discern between 
eprom which is bad and one which merely 
needs erasing. 



Gtek 



INC. 



• Verify erasure and compare commands. 

• Busy light indicates when power is being ap- 
plies to program socket. 

• Complete with TEXTOOL zero insertion 
force socket and integral 120 VAC power 
supply. <240 VAC/50HZ available also) 

• High Performance/Cost ratio. 

• •• Model 7128 PRICE $389.00 ••• 

MODEL 7128 SOCKET ADAPTERS 

MODEL 481 allows programming of 8748. 

8749, 8741, 8742 single chip processors. 

Price $98.00 

MODEL 511 allows programming the 8751, 
Intel's high powered single chip processor. 
Price S1 74.00 
MODEL 755 allows programming the 
8755 EPROM/IO chip 

Price $135.00 
MODEL 7128/24 - budget version of the 
7128. Supports 24 pin parts thru 32K only. 
Upgradable to full 7128 capacity. 

Price $289.00 

Non-expandable, very low cost models avail- 
able for specific devices. 
MODEL 7128-L1 for 2716 only $179.00 
MODEL 7128-L2 for 2732 only $209.00 

Also available from stock: 

Eprom Erasers UVP model DE-4 . . $78.00 

Avocet Systems Cross Assemblers $200.00 

RS-232 Cable Assemblies $25.00 

Programmable Devices call 

Complete development systems . $3240.00 

Post Office Box 289 

Waveland, Mississippi 39576 

(601)467-8048 



when no other program is running. When you see "A>" 
on your terminal, for instance, the command processor is 
in control and the default disk drive is drive A. The right- 
pointing arrow means that the computer is ready for your 
next command. 

CP/M was designed to fulfill a need in the microcom- 
puter industry. Although not the last word in operating 
systems, it is an optimal design that has proven portable 
over a wide variety of microcomputer systems. 

System Organization 

The new CP/M Plus has the same basic memory 
organization as the older CP/M 2.2 (see figure 1). Page 
zero is reserved for system use, and the TPA (transient 
program area) begins at location 0100 hexadecimal, as it 
does in earlier CP/M versions. The BDOS resides above 
the TPA, and the BIOS is loaded at the top of memory. In 
CP/M 2.2, the CCP, which accepts and processes system- 
level commands, always resides in the TPA just under the 
BDOS; in CP/M Plus, however, it is loaded at location 
0100 hexadecimal and treated just like any other pro- 
gram. To facilitate loading programs into memory, a 
module called the LOADER resides just below the BDOS 
and remains there permanently. When you request that a 
program be loaded into the TPA, the CCP calls the 
LOADER, which in turn gets the program from disk and 
places it in memory on top of the CCP (at 0100); the pro- 
gram can extend up to the bottom of the BDOS, if 
necessary. 

CP/M Plus can manage from 2 to 16 banks of memory. 
Figure 2 shows the organization of a typical banked 
system. At least the top 4K bytes of one bank must be 
common to all banks; usually, the top of bank 1 serves as 
the common (nonbanked) memory and the top locations 
of all other banks are disabled. Therefore, although 
many 64K-byte S-100 memory boards allow individual 
bank selection of each 16K-byte segment, CP/M Plus 
permits banking of the bottom 48K bytes of all boards 
while requiring that one of the 16K-byte banks, at the top 
of memory, be resident at all times. The TPA can extend 
up into the common bank, and the resident portions of 
the BIOS and BDOS must lie entirely within the common 
bank. 

File-System Features 

The CP/M Plus file system has been greatly improved 
compared with CP/M 2.2. CP/M Plus supports files up 
to 32 megabytes long, as opposed to an 8-megabyte limit 
with CP/M 2.2, and it supports disk capacities to 512 
megabytes, contrasted with 8 megabytes for CP/M 2.2. 
As does CP/M 2.2, CP/M Plus supports as many as 16 
logical disk drives. 

The major throughput improvements of CP/M Plus 
stem from directory hashing and an LRU (least recently 
used) buffering technique. In the former procedure, 
available using both banked and nonbanked versions, the 
BDOS creates a hashing table of directory entries for a 
disk when that disk is logged in. Therefore, when a file is 
opened or closed or when a new extent is selected, the 



364 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 183 on inquiry card. 






The most comprehensive 
statistics and graphics 
ever developed for 




and sophisticated 
database workstation 
the personal computer. 



Years of research, development, and 
field testing have resulted in the 
most extensive statistics and graph- 
ics database program specifically 
designed for thepersonal computing 
environment. STATPRO '" provides 
the data analysis capabilities and 
flexibility previously available only 
on a large computer. Researchers, 
business professionals, and other 
data analysts will welcome the 
breadth vet simplicity of this pro- 
gram! STATPRO requires no pre- 
vious computer experience, no 
special command language. Single 
keystrokes access all of the data man- 
ipulation, statistics, and graphics 
power of STATPRO. 

STATPRO allows easy access to its 
extensive numerical data 
capabilities. 

The strength of STATPRO is found 
in the functions of its user friendly, 
menu-driven database. You can 
easily learn to enter and edit, 
manipulate, transform, and print 
out data. STATPRO's searching 
capabilities allow these functions to 
be performed on all your data or a 
user defined subset of your data. 



Statistics Modules Menu 

A) DESCRIPTION 

B) REGRESSION 

C) ANOVA 

D) TIME SERIES 

E) MULTIVAR 

(ESC)) Exit to Master Menu 
Choice-H 1 



Transformations and over 400 
conversions are available. You can 
place the results of these transfor- 
mations into the same field or any 
other field in STATPRO's database. 




STATPRO offers a comprehensive 
collection of statistical procedures. 

The statistics component of 
STATPRO contains a multitude of 
procedures, grouped into the fol- 
lowing modules: 

Descriptive: Contingency analysis, 
cross tabulation, normality tests; 
descriptive, comparative, range and 
non-parametric statistics. 

Regression: Linear, non-linear, 
stepwise, and multiple regressions; 
residual analysis and statistical 
matrices. 

Analysis of Variance: Single and 
nested classifications, two and three 
way equal and unequal sample size 
and non-parametric ANOVA. 

Time Series: Moving averages, 
multi-stage least squares, fitted 
polynomials and trig functions, 
additive and multiply forecasting. 
Multivariate: Principal components, 
factor, orthogonal factor, oblique 
factor, pair-weighted cluster, dis- 
criminant function, multiple con- 
tingency, and canonical correlation 
analysis. 

STATPRO provides graphic 
representation of your data in 
minutes. 

STATPRO graphics plot all the 
results of your STATPRO statistical 
analyses including scatter, triangle 
regression, and box plots; pie- 



charts, histograms, and dendo- 
grams. Further, with STATPRO you 
can custom edit with any of four 
character sets from the keyboard. 
You can also edit using paddles, 
joystick or special graphics com- 
mands. Mix text with data fields. 
Place multiple plots on each screen. 
Define your axis limits. 

You can save your graphics on a 
disk for a multiple color "slide 
show" presentation, or print them 
out through a variety of compatible 
printers. 

STATPRO documentation wraps 
up the package. 

Although STATPRO software is 
essentially self-documenting, com- 
plete print documentation is pro- 
vided. This includes a walk-through 
Introductory Tutorial, a Menu 
Chart, and a comprehensive 
User's Guide for each STATPRO 
component. 

STATPRO currently runs on all 
versions of the Apple® II personal 
computers. It will be available for the 
IBM* PC in September. 

To find out more about Stat pro: 
The Statistics and Graphics Data- 
base Workstation , contact your 
local dealer, or 

Call us toll-free at 

800-322-2208 

In Massachusetts call (617) 423-0420. 

You can also call us toll-free for 
information on corporate purchase 
through our National Account 
Program. 




Wadsworth Electronic 
Publishing Company 

Statler Office Building 

20 Park Plaza, Boston, MA 02116 



STATPRO is a trademark of Wadsworth Electronic Publishing Company. Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. IBM is a registered trademark 

oflnternational Business Machines, Corp. 



Circle 438 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 365 



The Best In Price, Selection and Delivery 



Professional Qualify 



Call Now TOLL FREE 

800-368-3404 

(In VA, Call Collect 703-237-8695) 

AMPEX'INTERTEOTEXAS INSTRUMENTS'GENERAL DATA 
COMM. 'ANDERSON JACOBSON'C. ITOH'QUME • BEEHIVE* 
DATASOUTH'DIABLOCENTRONICS • NEC • PRENTICE 



cnam 

INTERTEC SUPERBRAIN II 

64KDD* $1874 

64K QD* $2249 

64K SD* (96TPI) $2689 

'(Includes M/Soft BASIC) 

DYNABYTE8/16BIT Call 

Callan 16/32 BIT Call 

EmEEa 

NEC 

7710 Ser .$2089 

7715 $2099 

7730 Par $2099 

7720 $2449 

7725 $2496 

Std. Tractor 77xx $ 199 

3510 $1390 

3515 $1424 

3530 $1390 

3550 (IBM) $1869 

3520 $1979 

3525 $1999 

DATASOUTH ES180 Call 

DATASOUTH ES220 Call 

DIABLO 

620-SPI $ 949 

630-R102/147 $1949 

630 ECS $2389 

630-R155 $1745 

•(for IBM PC, Apple II, TRS-80) 

630-K10-4 (DSR) $2385 

QUME 

Sprint9/45FP $1794 

Spring 9/55 FP $2119 

Sprint 9/55 FP/SMEM . . .$2186 
Wprint 9/55 LP/XMEM . . $2094 

Spring 1 1/40-PLUS $1449 

Bi-Dir Forms Tractor .... $ 199 
CENTRONICS: 122 (p) . . $ 689 
High Speed Line Printers . . Call 

niocng 

AMPEX 

D80 $1 589 

PHAZE (3270 EM.) $1589 

BEEHIVE (SMART DISPLAY) 

DM5 Call 

DM5A Call 

DM83 (Burroughs) Call 

DM3270 (3270 Emulator) . . Call 

Protocol Converter Call 

QUME 

QVT-102 $ 549 

QCT-108 Call 

C. ITOH 

CIT 101 $1289 

CIT 161 (64 Colors) Call 

CIT 201 (Graphics for 
TEK 401 0/401 4) Call 



CIT 41 4 (Graphics 

640x480 Res.) Call 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 

745 Standard $1172 

745 Std. (Reconditioned) . . Call 

765BblM'my Call 

785/787 Call 

810 Basic $1249 

810 Package $1439 

820 Package RO $1610 

820 KSR Package Call 

840 RO Basic $ 795 

840 RO Tractor 
FeedPkg $1059 

l.'iM-H.'.H 

PRENTICE STAR 300 Bd. $ 124 

U.S. Rob Auto Dial 21 2A.$ 469 

Stat Muxes Call 

Ventel212 + 3E Call 

GDC 24/9600 Bd Call 

Prentice 24/9000 Bd Call 

EEasana 

QUME 

DataTrak5$ 289 or 2 for $ 549 
Data Trak 8 $ 51 9 or 2 for $ 999 

EBEEEai 

BISYNC-3780 $ 769 

Wordstar (IBM PC) $ 279 

Data Star $ 218 

Mail Merge $ 144 

Spell Star $ 144 

Plan 80 $ 249 

dBase II ,...-,$ 48$ 

CalcStar 

SuperSort $ 

Super Calc $ 

InfoStar $ 

CISCobol $ 

Forms II $ 

MACRO 80 $ 

"C" Compiler $ 239 

Term II $ 189 

WordStar Professional 

(WS, SS, MM, SI) .... $ 399 

ReportStar $ 1 99 

Starlndex $ 129 

PlanStar Call 

StarBurst Call 

InfoStar Plus Call 

171 



191 
158 
144 
279 
689 
159 
183 



256K RAM Bd $ 256 

256K RAM db/Full Parity . $ 305 
CP/M-Z80 CO-PROC. . . $ 495 

Baby Blue $ 600 

Baby TEX $ 600 

Baby TALK 8270 BISYNC $ 895 
8" Disk Controller $ 395 



In addition, we can make El A RS 232 or RS 449 cables to your order, and supply 
you with ribbons, printer stands, print wheels, thimbles for all printers listed. 
And many, many more items. CALL NOW. 

All items shipped freight collect either motor freight or UPS unless otherwise specified 
All prices already include 3% cash discount Purchase with credit card does not in- 
clude discount Virginia residents, add 4% Sales Tax For fastest delivery send cer- 
tified check, money order or bank-wire transfer Sorry, no COD orders All equip- 
ment is in factory cartons with manufacturers warranty (ho nored at our depot) Prices 
sub|ect to change without notice Most items in stock : BBBBi /"^^Sl 



UCRMflflLS 



VBA 



IBl 



Terminals Terrific, Inc., P.O. Box 216, Merrifield, VA 221 16 
Phone: 800-368-3404 (In VA, Call Collect 703-237-8695) 



BDOS need only consult the hashing table; it need not 
perform a linear search of the disk directory, a step re- 
quired in earlier CP/M versions. This one feature is 
responsible for the greatest improvement in CP/M Plus's 
file-system response time. 

The LRU technique, supported by the CP/M Plus 
banked version, speeds access to files by storing as many 
records in main memory as possible. Multiple record- 
storing buffers can be allocated in any bank except bank 
1; buffers are allocated and deallocated as required by the 
BDOS. When a user program requests a record not in 
main memory, the BDOS throws away the least recently 
used record, thus freeing that buffer for the requested 
record. When a file must be written to memory, the 
BDOS writes existing records to disk, thus freeing a buf- 
fer to accept the new record. Such techniques are used on 
large computers to speed file I/O (input/output) opera- 
tions and to implement virtual-memory schemes. 

Multisector I/O 

CP/M Plus includes a multisector I/O capability that 
allows efficient loading of a large block of records. Set- 
ting the multisector count value informs the BDOS that 
n records are to be read or written when the next BDOS 
Read or Write function is encountered. This feature has 
two advantages. First, in a computer system that sup- 
ports a high-speed data-transfer capability such as DMA 
(direct memory access), a large block of data can be 
loaded without the inefficiencies involved in reading a 
record at a time from disk. For example, when reading 
from a hard disk, it might be possible to load an entire 
track at once, store the data in a large buffer, and then 
sort the records into order. (This sorting gets around 
problems related to sector skewing, a method of stagger- 
ing sectors around the disk to take advantage of the disk's 
rotational delay when reading or writing a disk.) 

The other advantage to multisector I/O is that it 
simplifies programming. A single command can be used 
to load an entire program or block of data, avoiding the 
need to process sectors and keep track of pointers in an 
assembly-language program. 

Automatic Disk Logging 

Perhaps CP/M Plus's greatest advantage is its ability to 
automatically log in disks whenever a new disk is read. 
Actually, CP/M Plus doesn't notice a change in disks un- 
til it tries to read the disk directory; it does eliminate the 
old "BDOS ERR R/O" error message. CP/M Plus also 
supports disk drives that have a door-open status bit. If 
this door-open bit is used to generate a hardware inter- 
rupt, then CP/M Plus can force the Media Flag, which in 
turn informs the BDOS that there might be a new disk in 
the drive. Before performing any input or output opera- 
tions on the disk, it relogs the disk. 

Time/Date Stamps 

CP/M Plus supports time and date stamping of files by 
reformatting the disk's directory. Every fourth directory 
entry is used to keep track of the stamps for three files. 

Continued on page 371 



366 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 407 on inquiry card. 



A flawless future is in sight with 3M diskettes. 

When it comes to keeping track of precious data, predictable 

m ™ s re . ia J?!, e - Bein 9 able to count on every diskette, every time 
At 3M, reliability is built into every diskette. We've been in the 
computer media business for over 30 years. And we've never settled 
in. We re constantly improving and perfecting our product line 
from computer tape and data cartridges to floppy disks. 
3M diskettes are made at 3M. That way, we have complete control 
over the entire manufacturing process. And you can have complete 
confidence in the reliability of every 3M diskette you buy. 

L 00 o^ n $2 ^ llow Pages under Computer Supplies and Parts for 
the 3M distributor nearest you. In Canada, write 3M Canada Inc 
London, Ontario. If it's worth remembering, it's worth 3M diskettes. 

Circle 410 on inquiry card. 




3M hears you. 




Quark introduces 

A deceptively simple solution 
to your word processing dilemma. 



If you're serious about word processing on 
your Apple*lle, you may be bewildered by the 
sheer number of programs available. And a 
tad perplexed by their claims and promises. 
After all, a glamorous package that says "easy 
to use," may not even be easy to open. 

The dilemma is real. And Quark is happy to 
provide the solution. 

A proven program for serious 
word processing. 

Quark's new Word Juggler lie turns your 
computer into a dedicated word processor. 
You get the extraordinary ease of use, sophis- 
ticated capabilities and straightforward docu- 
mentation that make our original Word Juggler 
a best seller on the Apple III. 

For example, there's virtually nothing to 
memorize. Because principal editing functions 
are identified on a unique keyboard template 



— and nineteen, easy-to-install, replacemen 
keycaps. 

Changing keys is quick and simple, too. Just 
slide our special keycap remover over the key 

— twist — and pull. Your new keycaps can be 
in place in less than two minutes. 

A flexible tool to increase your 
productivity. 

But don't be deceived by Word Juggler lie's 
disarming simplicity. The program packs the 
powerful features you need to quickly perform 
the most complex editing tasks. 

Characters, words, even entire paragraphs 
can be deleted with a single keystroke. There 
are search and replace keys. Block move and 
copy keys. And you always have instant con- 
trol over page length, margins and any other 
formatting parameters. 

Document display and print out are easy, 
also. One keystroke displays your document 
on the screen. Another prints it. And whether 





■ 




* ¥ -Tm 



Word Juggler lie. 






you need to print only specific pages, multiple 
copies, or even documents too large to fit in 
memory, Word Juggler lie can easily accom- 
modate you. 

A clever way to foil Mr. Murphy. 

Even the best of us occasionally forgets 
when "i" does not come before "e" — and 
even the most agile fingers can press the wrong 
key. So you should also give serious consider- 
ation to Quark's new Lexicheck® He — a spell- 
ing checker with a highly compressed, 50,000 
word dictionary. 

Accessed from within the word processor, 
this program lets you virtually eliminate typo- 
graphical errors and common misspellings. 
Lexicheck lie will scan your document at up to 
8,000 wpm — then highlight, in context, the 
first occurrence of any word it does not 
recognize. 

If the word is correct, as in the case of in- 
dustry jargon or abbreviations, you can simply 
add it to your personal dictionary. If the word is 
actually misspelled, you can swiftly correct it. 

'Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer. Inc. 

Quark, Word Juggler and Lexicheck are trademarks of Quark. Incorporated. Denver. Colorado 



A lot more. 

These are only some of the ways Word 
Juggler lie and Lexicheck He can help solve 
your word processing dilemma. Your Quark 
dealer has even more details, as well as com- 
plete information on our line of office automa- 
tion tools for the Apple III. 

Ask for a demonstration today. 




Quark 

^ mmmmmmmmm INCORPORATED 

Office Automation Tools 

2525 West Evans Avenue 
Suite 220 
Denver, CO 8021 9 

Word Juggler lie $239. sug. U.S. retail price 
Lexicheck He $129. sug. U.S. retail price 

Circle 344 on inquiry card. 



NEPTUNE 



EXTENDED 80-COLUMN CARD FOR APPLE R lie 

. . . 64K to 1 92K memory ... 80 - Column display . . . 
Upgradable . . . FULLY SOFTWARE SUPPORTED . 



ll 111 11 I ill ill I 



19111111 



~: ' j5: "*' J 



I ' kill WtM A/fJt-^m 

miimimiiimiiiiiiiiiii 



You can activate time/date stamps for files when up- 
dated, created, or accessed. Because only two stamps can 
be kept for each file, you must choose between stamping 
files on creation or on access. The update stamp is always 
available and need only be enabled by the SET com- 
mand. Before time/date stamping can be used on a disk, 
the utility INITDIR must be run to reformat the direc- 
tory. Because the stamps take up every fourth directory 
entry, some directory space is lost on the disk. 

Password Protection 

Files can be password protected in the banked version 
of CP/M Plus. The password-protection mechanism is 
identical to that used in the MP/M operating system. 
Floating directory entries keep track of a file's password, 
and CP/M Plus must search through the directory to find 
the password entry for a file. A default password can be 
set for all files created on a disk. 

I/O Redirection 

CP/M Plus supports a more generalized character I/O 
redirection scheme than do previous versions of CP/M. 
Each of five logical device names (CONIN, CONOUT, 
AUXIN, AUXOUT, LST) can be assigned to one or more 
physical devices. Up to 12 physical devices can be de- 
fined, and all logical devices have access to all physical 
devices. The DEVICE command lets you reassign phys- 
ical devices, change device characteristics, and determine 
current assignments. 



Many operating systems, such as Unix, allow disk files 
to be treated as character I/O devices. CP/M Plus sup- 
ports a GET and PUT facility that allows console input 
and output and printer output to be redirected to or from 
a disk file. The command "GET CONSOLE INPUT 
FROM FILE filename. typ" causes all subsequent console 
input to come from the file specified in the command. If 
the SYSTEM option is added after the file name, even 
system-level CCP commands come from the file, thus 
allowing the GET facility to function as a batch- 
command execution system similar to that of the SUB- 
MIT command. 

System Utilities 

CP/M Plus provides some new utilities not available 
on previous CP/M versions. For example, the HELP 
command lets you request information about CP/M Plus 
and its commands by entering the name of the command 
or program. One or more screens full of information then 
appear on the desired subject. Because CP/M Plus knows 
the screen size (number of rows and columns), it can 
paginate the display so that you can read it comfortably 
without having to manually start and stop scrolling. 
Most HELP topics include subtopics, such as lists of op- 
tions or examples. If you are interested in the DIR (direc- 
tory) command, for example, you can enter HELP DIR. 
At the end of the DIR display, a list of subtopic headings 
appears, including EXAMPLES. You can at that point 
just type .EXAMPLES to go to the subtopic. The period 



Colonial Data SB-88 

16 BIT — IBM PC® COMPATIBLE „ 







rjp, w 



Complete with Deluxe Keyboard! 

U 16 BIT — 8088 Processor ■ 64K RAM (Expand to 256K) ■ Dual 409 KBYTES Floppies ■ Runs MS-DOS® Operating System 



Colonial Data SB-80 

8 BIT — Z80A COMPUTER 






Singleboard/Expandable ■ 64K Main Memory ■ Dual 409 KBYTES Floppies 
■ Runs CP/M® or TurboDOS® ■ Multi-User models also available 




Colonial Data 



Nationwide on-site and depot repair service through the professionals at INDESERV. 



• IBM PC Is a registered trademark of IBM Corporation. 

• MS-DOS is a registered trademark of MICROSOFT. 

• CP/M is a registered trademark ol Digital Research, Inc. 

• TurboDOS is a registered trademark ol Software 2000, Inc. 



Colonial Data Services Corp.,105 Sanford Street, Hamden, Conn. 06514* (203) 288-2524«Telex: 95601 4 



Circle 78 on inquiry card. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 371 




before the subtopic name specifies a subtopic of the last 
topic rather than a new major topic. From the CP/M Plus 
prompt level you can enter HELP DIR EXAMPLES to go 
directly to the subtopic. If you just type HELP at the 
CP/M Plus level, you get a list of available topics. 

The HELP command even lets you edit the HELP.HLP 
file that contains all the text for the help messages. The 
command HELP [EXTRACT] converts the HELP.HLP 
file into a HELP. DAT file so that you can edit it with a 
word processor. The HELP [CREATE] command con- 
verts your edited text file back into a HELP.HLP file so 
that it can be accessed by the HELP command. By 
employing these commands, a vendor with special utility 
programs or special hardware can add personalized help 
messages to the system. 

CP/M Plus still has many of the familiar built-in com- 
mands of version 2.2: DIR, REN, ERA, TYPE, and 
USER. The only one not included is SAVE, which has 
been converted into a transient command. Most of the 
built-in commands operate similarly to their CP/M 2.2 
counterparts. However, in CP/M Plus all of them have 
transient-command versions as well, a feature that keeps 
the CCP small enough to fit in the system tracks, as it 
does in CP/M 2.2, despite CP/M Plus's enhancements. 
The extra features of these commands are handled by 
transient versions (DIR.COM, ERASE.COM, etc.). For 
example, the DIR transient command has extra options 
that can be listed in square brackets after the normal 
command tail of the DIR built-in command. The CCP 
recognizes that the transient version is required and loads 
it. If it isn't found on the disk, the CCP issues an error 
message. Some of the options provided in the enhanced 
DIR command include DRIVE = ALL, which causes all 
files on all drives to be listed; EXCLUDE, which displays 
all files not specified in the DIR command tail; SIZE, 
which displays the size in kilobytes of all files; and FULL, 
which displays all information about all files on the disk 
(similar to the old STAT command). 

The TYPE command in CP/M Plus has a page mode 
(the default mode) that causes text to be displayed screen 
page by screen page, with a prompt appearing at the bot- 
tom of the screen that tells you to press Return to see the 
next page. This avoids the old problem of having to use 
Control-S to start and stop scrolling. 

The PIP (peripheral interchange program) is a 
generalized file-copy program that lets you transfer files 
from one disk to another, from disk to a character device 
(such as the printer), or from a character device to a disk 
file. It also lets you concatenate files and perform other 
text-formatting functions. In CP/M Plus, PIP operates in 
the same manner as does the CP/M 2.2 version. 

In CP/M 2.2 the STAT command performs a wide 
variety of functions. In CP/M Plus the display- and 
system-alteration commands have been separated into 
different utility programs. SETDEF lets you change the 
drive search order, the file-type search order, and the 
temporary drive. The drive search order is another new 
feature of CP/M Plus. When set, CP/M Plus automat- 
ically searches other disk drives for a file if the file can't 



372 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 480 on Inquiry card. 



APPLE • ALTOS • ATARI • MAXELL • DYSAN • EPSON • CCS • SHARP • CASIO • HP • VERBATIM • MEMOREX • SOROC • CORVUS • ADDS 



MICRO 



TO ORDER OR INFORMATION LINE 

(213) 704-6895 




IT3S1 SPECIAL OF THE MON 1H IM~ 



DISK DRIVES FOR THE PC AND PC COMPATIBLES 
DOUBLE SIDED/DOUBLE DENSITY 320K 

MSL OUR ONE YEAR WARRANTY 

$525.00 price $199.00 



MICRO-SCI A2 

W/CONTROLLER W/OUT CONTROLLER 

MSL OUR PRICE I msl OUR PRICE 

^19 .00 379.00 |409.00 299.00 i 




APPLE II 
PLUS 



PLUG-COMPATIBLE DRIVES 
RANA ELITF I 

W/CONTROLLER W/OUT CONTROLLER 
MSL OUR PRICE I MSL OUR PRICE 
549.00 399.00 449.00 329.00 




PERSONAL 
COMPUTER 

INCLUDES: 

2 Drives OS/DD 
Color Graphic Board 
64K Memory 



MONITOR 
NOT INCLUDED 



MSL OUR PRICE s<u* 
2995.00 $2499.00 496.00 

'Subject to availability 



EXPAND YOUR IBM PC MEMORY: 



MSL 
FROM 64K TO 128K 108.00 
FROM 64X TO 192K 21600 
FROM S4K TO 256K 324.00 



OUR «• . 
PRICE i>A"« 

63.00 4500 
111.00 9700 
179.00 14600 



FULL INSTRUCTIONS INCLUDED 

NEC 3550 

SPiNWRITER LETTER QUALITY 
PRINTER FOR IBM PC 
Parallel Bidirectional. 35 CPS 

Minified instructions 

NOW COMPATIBLE WITH WORD STAR 

OUR Cjjtt, 
MSL PRICE ^"^ 

3495.00 $2059.00 1436.00 



APPLE PERSONAI 
COMPUTER 






MICRO PRO WORD STAR 

MSL PRICE S*"* 

495.00 369.00 126.00 



DAVONG MSL Prfce 

OSI 501 Hard Disk 5M 995.00 1415.00 

10M 2495.00 1195.00 

MICROSOFT 

64K Ram Card w/panly 350.00 249.00 

128K Ram Card w/parity 525.00 375.00 

256K Ram Card w/parity 175.00 649.00 

XEDEX BABY BLUE 

64K plus 600.00 439.00 
CP/M 2.2 



PERIPHERALS AMD SOFTWARE 

HAROHARE MSL 

Videx Combo Package 375.00 

Videx Videoterm Card 345.00 

Videx Keyboard Enhancer II 149.00 

Microsoft Softcard with CP/M 345.00 

Microsoft Premium Pak 695.00 

Microsoft 16K Card 99.95 
PCP Appl I Card 14 MH2 version) 445.00 
PCP Appl I Card (6 MHZ version) 595.00 

Corvus Winchester 5MB 2.495.00 

Corvus Winchester 10MB 3.495.00 

Corvus Winchester 20MB 4.495.00 

Saturn Systems 32K 249.00 

Saturn Systems 64K 425.00 

Saturn Systems 128K 599.00 

Hays Micromodem II 379.00 

Hays Smartmodem 279.00 

Kensington System Saver 90.00 

M S R RF Modulator 30.00 

MSB Super Fan 50.00 

Grappler + 175.00 
Practical Peripherals 

Microbufler II 16K 
Practical Peripherals 

Microbufler II 32K 299.00 

Prometheus Versa Card 199.00 

SVA Disk 2+2 Controller DSSD 395.00 

SVA Disk 2+2 Controller DSDD 595.00 

SVA Appl Cache 256 K Memory 1.200.00 



Our 
Price 
259.00 
239.00 
115.00 
235.00 
499.00 
72.50 
339.00 
449.00 
1,949.00 
2,849.00 
3.69900 
165.00 
312.00 
452.00 
285.00 
22500 
68 00 
22.00 
37.00 
135.00 



25900 225.00 



TG Joystick 
TG Select A Port 
Wesper Micro Wizard 80 
Wesper Micro BPO 16K 
Wesper Micro BPO 32K 
Wesper Micro SOB 16K 
Wesper Micro SOB 32K 
BMC 1401 w/RGB Interlace 
,AISZ Card w/CPM tor Apple 



59.95 
59.95 
249.00 
179.00 
219.00 
249.00 
279.00 
595.00 
349.00 



239.00 
149.00 
335.00 
419.00 
1.049.00 
42.00 
42.00 
179.00 
139.00 
159.00 
119.00 
229.00 
319.00 
2W.0flj 



SOFTWARE MSL Price 

CHOPLIFTER by Broderband 34.95 26.20 

Frogger by Sierra Online 34.95 26.20 

Canyon Climber by Datasoft 29.95 22.50 

Wizardry by Sir Tech 49.95 37.50 

Zork by Intocom 39.95 29.95 

Snooper Troops HI by Spinnaker 44.95 33.75 

Deadline by Intocom 49.95 37.50 

Apple Panie by Broderband 29.95 22.50 

Master Type by Lightning 39.95 29.95 

Typing Tator II by Microsoft 24.95 11.75 

Story Machine by Spinnaker 34.95 29.95 
The Home Accountant 

by Continental 74.95 56.50 

PFS: File by Software Publishing 175.00 131.25 

VisiCalc by VisiCorp 250.00 119.00 

PFS: Report by Software Publishing 95.00 71.25 

Screenwriter II by Sierra On Line 129.95 97.50 



' BM 

PERSONAL f0ijl< 
COMPUTER*^ 




PERIPHERALS & SOFTWARE 

HARDWARE MSL 
QUADRAM Quadboard. 4 function brd 

with 64 K 595.00 349.00 

with 256 K 995.00 549.00 
Quad Color II 

With 640x240 Resolution 575.00 439.00 
Quad Color III 

With 640x400 Resolution 850.00 669.00 

Printer Card w/cable (parallel) 159.00 109.00 

Printer Card w/cable (serial) 179.00 139.00 

Davong Hard Disks CALL 



Our 
Price 



H33S] 



SOFTWARE 

Zorklbylnfocom 

Zork II by Infocom 

Zork Itl by Infocom 

Snooper Troops #1 by Spinnaker 

Snooper Trcps #2 by Spinnaker 

Deadline by Infocom 

Flight Simulator by Microsoft 

Starcross by Infocom 

Story Machine by Spinnaker 

The Home Accountant 

by Continental 
VisiCalc by VisiCorp 
Wordstar by Micropro 
The Tax Manager by Microlab 
Visifile by VisiCorp 
Super ca Ic by Sorcim 
dBase II by AshtonTate 
Personal Investor by PBL 



r M0NIT0RS ^ I 

TAXAN *5?MPSP 



MSL 

39.95 
39.95 
39.95 
44.95 
44.95 
49.95 
49.95 
39.95 
34.95 

150.00 
250.00 
41500 
250.00 
300.00 
295.00 
700.00 
145.00 



6u7^ 

Price 
2850 
21.50 
21.50 
33.50 
33.50 
37.50 
37.50 
28.50 
26.50 

111.00 
119.00 
369.00 
189.00 
229.00 
229.00 
489 00 
119.00 



TAXAN 

12- Grit. Pits 182 MHZ 

BMC 

12-Grn Phsl5MHZ 

NEC 

JB 12" Green 

JC 12" Color 

USI 

PI 2 12- Green 

PI-3 12- Amber 

AMDEK 

300 12" Green 

Color I 

Color II RGB Highres 

ELECTROHOME 

[CM 1302 1 13- RGB Hires 

ECM-1302-2 13- RGB Hires 

Xolor Board lor Apple II 



195.00 

125.00 

249.00 
495.00 

249.00 
289.00 

195.00 
395.00 
895.00 

595.00 
895.00 
249.00 



Our 

Price 
109.00 



175.00 
345.00 

155.00 

is: oo 

145.00 

325.00 
695.00 

395.00 
595.00 
195.00 




THE IBM PC WITH 12BK, 10 
MB WINCHESTER ON 
UNE, DOS 2.0. 
ASYNCHRONOUS INTERFACE 

OUR LOW PRICE $4595.00 



KAYPRO II 

PROFOUNDLY 

PORTABLE 

WITH 9" MONITOR, CP/M, 
Perfect Writer, Perfect Calc, 
Perfect Filer, Perfect Speller 
S BASIC 

MSL 
V 1795.00 
CALL FOR PRICE 




Tp| SMITH CORONi 

DAISY WHEEL 
PRINTER _ 

n 



Letter 
Quality 



MSL 



895.00 



OUR 

E $599.00 

S"" 296.00. 



CPfM is a registered trademark ol Digital Research, Inc. 



LOTUS 1-2-3 

A POWERFUL. FAST AND 
MOST PRODUCTIVE SOFTWARE 
FOB TOUR MONET: INTEGRATED 
SPREAD SHEET, DATA BASE AND 
GRAPHICS our 

MSL /£"& 

49500 395.00 100.00 



e^ 



TERMINALS TELEVIDEO „ r 

LIS. P"« 

910 169900 5599.00 

912C 95000 !•§■ 

920C 995 00 7950 < l 

kMOC 1.195.00 X90°^ 




' THE APPLE COMPATIBLE 

ALTERNATIVE with 

FRANKLIN C0L °" 

BUSINESS 

SYSTEM 

Franklin Ace 1000 system • 64K • 
Disk Drive with controller card • 12" 
green phs. video monitor. 

$1395.00 

J5AVE S10O0 COMPARED TO APPLE SYSTEM m 



ill 



OSBORNE 

PERSONAL COMPUTER 




INCLUDES 
SOFTWARE 



•CPM • MAIL MERGE 

• WORDSTAR • CB BASIC 

• SUPERCALC • M BASIC 

OUR PRICE 



1795.00 




Epson MX m T Type III 
Epson Fxwrr 
Epson MX 100 Type 

■w/graphics 
OKIDATA 

Ok data 82A n/tractor 80 col 
Okidala 83A W/tractor 132 col 
Okdata 84P 132 col. serial 
Okidata 84S 132 col. parallel 

c. rroH 

C. Itoh F 10 40 cps (parallel) 

C. Itoh F 10 40 cps (serial) 
C. Itoh Prooriter (parallel) 
C. Itoh Prowriter (serial) 
SMITH CORONA 
TP 1 Letter Quality 
Tractors 

STAR MICRONIC 
Gemini 10 



549.00 
899.00 
1395.00 
149500 

1795.00 
1895.00 
695.00 
749.00 

895.00 
150.00 



409 00 
709 00 
1019.00 
1177.00 

1377.00 
1439.00 
519.00 
565.00 

599.00 
13900 



495.00 379.00 



rMODEMS 

NOVATION 

Cat 
D Cat 

Auto-Cat 
212 Auto Cat 
Super Mike 
Apple Cat II 
212 Apple Cat 



MSL 

189.00 
199.00 
249.00 
695.00 
1495 
389.00 
725.00 



HAYS MICROCOMPUTER PRODUCTS 

Hays Stack Smartmodem 289.00 

Smart Modem 1200 699.00 

Micromodem 100 399.00 
ANCHOR AUTOMATION 

Signalman Modem MK I 99.00 

JA»r> VII (Auto Answer/Dial) 159.00 



Uur 
Price 
149.00 
159.00 
209.00 
629.00 
12.95 
219.00 
619.00 

229.00 
529.00 
299.00 

79.00 
125.00^ 



When in LA please visit our showroom MS 10-6. 



MICRO 



vVe reserve the ngni iu uuiieci ryjjograLinic.il 
errors. This ad supercedes all previous ads. 
20929 Ventura Brvd Prices subject to change without notice. 
BUSINESS WORLD WoDdtand Hilts, CA91364 -California residents add Ltthtt sales tax 

OUTSIDE CA CALL TOLL FREE 1 (800) 423 5886 IN CA (213) 996-2252 " Add 3% Shipping & Handling - AdC I 3% 

surcharge for credit cards. No C.O.D. s. 

Name (Please print) „ Order cannot be shipped unless accom- 

Addfess panied by payment, including sh ing. 

~~ handling and tax where appliL.bie. 
Minimum service charge $5.00. 
Qty Make Model Description Price Total 



City . 



MAIL ORDER 



_ TAX IF APPLICABLE' 



TOTAL ORDER $ 



SHIPPINGS HANDLING** 
TOTAL ENCLOSED $ 



Certified Check or M.O. 
Bank Wire Transfer 

CREDIT CARD # 



Allow 2 weeks clearance for 
personal check 



VISA 



MAXELL • DYSAN • EPSON • CCS • SHARP • CASIO • HP • VERBATIM • MEMOREX • SOROC • CORVUS • PERSONAL SOFTWARE • CCS 



Circle 262 on inquiry card. 






BYTE July 1983 373 



Circle 25 on inquiry card. 




m& 












'ftwofe 



; tot* K Byl 



sfeae** 



•« 



^ 



** 



■'ffiSfi 



tffcKJpt 




Expand Your 
Networking Capabilities 




With ASCI - The Interface Experts 

ASCI Switches can solve your RS-2 32 

and Parallel networking problems 

Other companies sell you boxes . . . ASCI has customized 

interfaces. For the same price as an off the shelf product. 

ASCI can provide the service you need to develop a network 

that works for you. 

ASCI gives you the interfacing products that enable 

you to create . . . 

• Office Automation Systems 

• Peripheral Sharing Systems 

• Scientific Equipment Mix/Matching 
• Process Control Networks 
Call ASCI today and receive our FREE brochure- 
Low Cost Local Area Networking . . . 

213-793-8971 

Advanced Systems Concepts, Inc. 

435 N. LAKE AVENUE, DEPT. B 

PASADENA CALIFORNIA 91 1 01 

TELEX: 701 215 



ft 



be found on the default or requested drive. The 
temporary-drive specification lets you select the drive 
where temporary files (created by text editors and 
various utility programs) are created. SETDEF also lets 
you turn the page-display mode on or off. 

The SET command affects the disk directory, the drive, 
or one or more disk files. It lets you initiate password 
protection (on a banked system) and time and date 
stamping of files. It also lets you set file and drive at- 
tributes such as SYS (system files) or read-only. You can 
also use it to label a disk and password-protect the label. 

In CP/M Plus you can assign a label to a disk to make 
cataloging it easier. The label can be password pro- 
tected. If it isn't protected, anyone with access to the SET 
command can alter the attributes of a disk and make it in- 
accessible to you. The SET command can also be used to 
set passwords for individual files on a disk. Four levels of 
protection are available: none, read, write, and delete. If 
read is set, a password is needed for all actions such as 
reading, copying, writing, deleting, or renaming a file. If 
write protection is set, you need to enter a password only 
to write, delete, or rename the file, not to read it. The 
delete level lets you write or read but not delete the file. 
To set the password for a file, you enter the following 
command: 

SET MYFILE.TXT [PASSWORD = SECRET, 
PROTECT = WRITE] 

This command sets the password and protects the file 
against writing — but not against reading. SET also lets 
you set a default password for the entire time you are 
using the computer (until you restart CP/M Plus or hit 
Reset). 

CP/M Plus supports an expanded group of file at- 
tributes. CP/M 2.2 allows the attributes RO, SYS, DIR, 
and RW. CP/M Plus uses some of the remaining bits in 
the file-control block to implement an archive feature and 
four user-definable attributes. The archive attribute 
works with PIP when the PIP "A" option is set. PIP can 
be given an ambiguous file specification (such as *.*, 
meaning "copy all files"); it then copies only the files that 
have the archive-attribute bit turned off. Thus, only files 
that have not been backed up are copied. As the files are 
copied, PIP turns on the archive bit, indicating that the 
file has been backed up. Therefore, all files that have 
been created or changed since the last PIP archive are 
backed up automatically. 

The 4 user-definable bits in the file-control block can 
be used under program control for any purpose. The SET 
command can be used to change their values, or they can 
be changed under program control through the BDOS. 

The SHOW command displays information about a 
disk drive. This information includes the disk label, ac- 
cess mode, free space, current user number, number of 
files for each user number on the disk, number of free 
directory entries on the disk, and the disk-drive charac- 
teristics. SHOW takes over many of the status-display 

Continued on page 378 



374 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 14 on inquiry card. 



The IMS Computer Family 




In^HHnM J 1MB I 

All IMS systems can be configured with 8 bit or 16 bit microprocessors. 



O© 5000SX/8000SX 

The SX table top computer systems are the ideal choice for 

companies with expansion in mind. These systems are 

easily expandable from one to eight users, each having his 

own Microprocessor, 64K of memory, and local peripheral 

control. 

© The 5000SX chassis has three full width 5V4 inch Floppy/ 
Winchester slots available. Winchesters from 6.3 MByte to 
19.2 MByte require one full width slot each. Floppies from 
500 KBytes to 1.0 MBytes of storage require l A slot per drive. 

©The 8000SX chassis has two full width 8 inch Floppy/ 
Winchester slots available with the added capacity to house 
a magnetic tape bulk memory subsystem. Winchesters from 
6.3 to 85 MByte storage require one full width slot each and 
1.6 MByte Floppies require Vt slot per drive. 

O 8000S "MAXIMA" 

The IMS 8000S "MAXIMA" Computer system is designed for 
the company where many people must have access to a large 
common pool of information. Basically the system configu- 
ration of the 8000S is similar to that of the SX Table Top 
system with the added capability to support up to 16 users 
each with his own Microprocessor and 64K of memory. The 
8000S has five full width 8" Floppy/Winchester slots 
available supporting any combination of full width Win- 
chesters and x h width Floppies plus a magnetic tape bulk 
memory subsystem. 

Circle 198 on inquiry card. 



© 5000IS - "The Desktop Mainframe" 
From the crystal clear monitor with a true typist keyboard to 
the high performance power supply— the 5000IS is the most 
versatile integrated system available— best of all, the 
5000IS can serve as the host processor of a multi-user, 
multiprocessing system supporting four users. 

© IMS "ULTIMA" Terminal 

The "ULTIMA" CRT Terminal has a separate microprocessor 
for each of its major functions: Local Intelligence, Screen 
and Keyboard Control. It can be customized to perform 
functions the others don't even talk about. The contoured 
keyboard has a touch the best typist will really appreciate. 

O Portable Cartridge Tape Back Up Unit 

The IMS Stand Alone Tape Data Storage and Retrieval 

Subsystem may be added to any IMS system. 

To compliment the best microcomputers available, IMS 
supplies a complete and comprehensive set of business 
application software. 

For complete information and specifications 

plus the location of your nearby IMS 

international dealer, call or write today! 

(702)883-7611 INTERNATIONAL 

2800 Lockheed Way, Carson City, Nevada 89701 • Telex 910-395-6051 

BYTE July 1983 375 





Business at Bundtweiller Brass Beds is 
booming! And now that Friday's here to help out, 
I've got everything under control. 

Friday's the revolutionary new micro- 
computer information management system from 
Ashton-Tate, the people who invented dB ASE II™ 

It came in Tuesday, and it took me almost 
no time at all to get the hang of it because Friday 
works with me, not against me. I've already 
turned stacks and stacks of paper files into much 
more efficient "electronic files!' And it's so easy 
to use that even Mr. Bundtweiller can do it. 

So now, no matter what Mr. Bundtweiller 
needs to know— no matter when he needs it— 
he or I can find it in seconds. 

The names and commissions earned by 
our top 25 salesmen since January 1st. 

The total number of #3455 Brass Beds 
sold year-to-date, by region. 

A quick report on our cash receivables. 

Or the special report for the Board of 
Directors meeting this afternoon. Mr. Bundt- 
weiller forgot to tell me about it until just 
before lunch, but Friday and I got it done in 
no time at all. It looks gorgeous! 

Friday even knows how to keep private 




or confidential information to itself unless I ask 
for it using a special password. 

Friday's helped me say goodbye to paper 
shuffling forever. It's terrific for inventory and 
invoices and paychecks and input screens and 
reports. It works with dBASE II™ and 1-2-3 1 
and Wordstar 2 files. And the way it handles 
mailing lists and labels is just fantastic. 

All for just $295. It's worth it for the 
mailing lists alone. 



376 BYTE July 1983 



it's Fri< 





So if you need some good, reliable help 
to handle just about everything that needs 
handling around your office, for my money it's 
Friday any day of the week. 

For the name and location of the Friday 
dealer nearest you, contact Ashton-Tate, 
10150 W. Jefferson Blvd., Culver City, CA 90230. 

Or better yet, just call (213) 204-5570 
today and find out why so many people are 
saying: T.G. I.F. 

Circle 38 on inquiry card. 



ASHTON -TOE 




Friday! runs under CP/M-80, CP/M-86, PC-DOS 

and MS-DOS. 

Friday! and dBASE 11 are trademarks of Ashton-Tate. 

1— TM Lotus Corp. 

2— TM Micropro. 

© 1983 Ashton-Tate 



BYTE July 1983 377 



functions of the old STAT command. For example: 

SHOW B: 

displays the following: 

B: RW, Space: 240k 

This tells you that the B drive is set to read/write mode 
and has 240K bytes of remaining space. 

Another useful feature of SHOW is similar to the 
STAT DSK: command on CP/M 2.2. SHOW [DRIVE] 
displays the following information: 



A 

1944 

243 

64 

64 

128 

8 

26 

128 



Drive Characteristics 
128-Byte Record Capacity 
Kilobyte Drive Capacity 
32-Byte Directory Entries 
Checked Directory Entries 
Records/Directory Entry 
Records/Block 
Records /Track 
Bytes/Physical Record 



The Symbolic Instruction Debugger 

Previous versions of CP/M included a debugger/ tracer 
program called DDT (dynamic debugging tool, or a cer- 
tain pesticide). It lets a programmer disassemble, trace, 



and test programs on an assembly- or machine-code 
level. CP/M Plus comes with SID, a symbolic instruction 
debugger, which performs all the functions of DDT, but 
also lets programs be debugged symbolically. This means 
that if a compiler or assembler is used that generates a 
symbol table (a list of symbols and labels and their hexa- 
decimal machine addresses), the symbol table can be read 
into SID and used to display the original symbols at ap- 
propriate locations in memory. This feature greatly 
simplifies the debugging process because the programmer 
can see exactly where he or she is when stepping through 
the program, because the original references are pre- 
served. SID also has improved numeric-expression- 
evaluation capabilities and some additional trace com- 
mands for single-stepping through programs. 

Two other useful programs are included with CP/M 
Plus. MAC and RMAC are powerful macro assemblers 
that can be used for program development. Previous ver- 
sions of CP/M came only with ASM, an absolute assem- 
bler with no macros and few other features. MAC has 
macros but generates absolute code, while RMAC pro- 
duces relocatable code. RMAC is required if you intend 
to write or modify the BIOS or write resident system ex- 
tensions (to be discussed later). Both MAC and RMAC 
come with macro libraries that simulate all Z80 instruc- 
tions that are not part of the standard Intel 8080 instruc- 
tion set. This lets the programmer take advantage of the 
powerful Z80 instructions while still using the assembler 



VERSATILE DATA REDUCTION, 

DISPLAY AND PLOTTING SOFTWARE 

FOR YOUR APPLE* II 



STRIPCH ARTER — Turns your APPLE and Epson MX 
series printer into an economical 4-pen chart recorder. 
Prints and displays continuous 1 to 4-channel strip- 
charts of any length. Ideal for large data sets. Numerous 
user-selectable graphics options enhance output qual- 
ity. Includes 5 demos on disk with 37-page manual $1 00 

VIDICHART — Proven tool for lab data management. 
Fasf plots of 4 data sets with scrolling in 4 directions, 
zoom scaling on X and Y axes, 2 types of graphic 
cursors and on-screen STATUS REPORT, even plots 
A/D input while sampling. ADD, SUBTRACT, MULTI- 
PLY, DIVIDE, INTEGRATE, DIFFERENTIATE, AVER- 
AGE or NORMALIZE data sets with SIMPLE COM- 
MANDS. Ideal for spectra, chromatograms, rate curves, 
etc. Includes SAMPLE DATA on disk with 28-page 
manual $75 

SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER — Draws professional-looking 
graphs of your data. You choose data format, length and 
position of axes, 20 symbols, error bars, labels any- 
where in 4 orientations. Includes 5 demos on disk plus 
30-page manual $25 

(For DIF file and Houston Instrument or H-P 7470A 
plotter adaptations, add $25 for each option selected.) 

CURVE FITTER — Select the best curve to fit your data. 
Scale, transform, average, smooth, interpolate (3 
types), LEAST SQUARES fit (3 types). Evaluate un- 
knowns from fitted curve. Includes 5 demos on disk with 
33-page manual $35 

SPECIAL: VIDICHART, SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER, 
CURVE FITTER on 1 disk $120 



A'V^vv 




Add $1 .50 shipping on all US orders, VISA or MASTERCARD orders accepted 

'Trademark of Apple Computer. Inc. 

INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 
P.O. Box 771, Dept. 3 State College, PA 16801 
CALL (814) 238-8294 for IMMEDIATE ACTION 



iffii 




And then 
there 



were none. 



The list of already extinct animals 
grows . . . the great auk, the Texas gray 
wolf, the Badlands bighorn, the sea mink, 
the passenger pigeon . . . 

What happens if civilization 
continues to slowly choke out wildlife 
species by species? 

Man cannot live on a planet unfit for 
animals. 

Join an organization that's doing 
something about preserving our 
endangered species. Get involved. Write 
-■» A the (National Wildlife Federation, 
MMffo Department 1 05, 1412 1 6th 
S^PaS Street, MW. Washington, 

msn dc 2o ° 36 - 

It's not too late. 



378 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 208 on Inquiry card. 



FOR IBM PC 



## 



AST I/O + 11 Serial, Game, Clock $149 

AST ComboPlus with 64K. serial, parallel, clock , . .$257 

AST MegaPlus 64K. serial, parallel, clock $292 

AST MegaPak 256K for Megaplus $245 

Davong 10MByte Hard Disk $1735 

Oavong 18MBYTE TAPE (PC or XT) $1650 

dBase II— for PC-DOS $429 

Lotus 1-2-3 $335 

Keytronics keyboard $195 

RAM SETS (64K with parity)-EXPANDS ALL IBM . . $50 

RIXON PC212A MODEM $375 

TandonTM100-2 $245 

Tartdon TM100-4-with DOS-FIX $335 

TEAC 320K Half-Height .$285 



IT'S IN STOCK" 





FOR ATARI 




Printer Cable . 
Rana Elite 1000- 
Serial Cable . . 




....$35 


-single/double density floppy 


$385 
$35 





FOR COMMODORE 64 



DATA 20 VideoPak80-80 column display $165 

Z-80 VideoPak-CP/M and 80 column $275 

Serial to Parallel Printer Cable $75 



CORONA DATA SYSTEMS 



Systems include half-height 320K drives, 128K RAM 
expandable to 512K on-board, 640 x 325 graphics, 
green monitor with 16 x 13 matrix characters, serial 
port, parallel port, DOS, Basic, and spreadsheet 
software. 

PC-1 1 drive-list $2595 $2095 

PC-2 2 drives-list 2995 $2375 

PC-HD 10MByte hard disk-list $4495 $3495 

PPC-1 Portable/1 drive-list $2395 $1950 

PPC-2 Portable/2 drives-list $2795 $2250 



WABASH DISKETTES 



Single Side Single Density 5 boxes at $17.50/box 

Single Side Double Density 5 boxes at $21 /box 

Double Side Double Density 5 boxes at $32/box 



Chameleon "The Compatible Computer" 



LOCAL SALES ONLY 

$1995 

FREEdBASE II TUTORIAL 



FOR OSBORNE 



Corvus 6MB hard disk $1975 

OSMOS1 -double density mod $175 

OSMOS 2-370K drives-compatible with software . . . $855 

OSMOS 3-750K drives $999 

OSMOS 4-Disk Format/Convert- 

read< write 20 formats $215 

OSMOS 5-80 Column-select 52/80 display $235 

OSMOS 6-Drive Diagnostics $29 



TELEVIDEO TERMINALS 



TV-910-Plus 


.... $565 


TV-910 


$565 


TV-925 


$725 


TV-950 


$915 


TV-970 


$1095 





VIDEO MONITORS 



Amdek 300G $142 

Amdek300A $165 

Amdek 310A-amber for IBM $185 

Amdek Color I- We recommend BMC Composite 13". . . $275 
BMC 12" Green-not fancy, but it works ... $94 

BMC 13" Color (BM-AU9191U) $275 

BMC 13" RGB with card for Apple II + $395 

Dynax 12" Green (GM-120)-BEST BUY $129 

Dynax 12" Amber (AM-121)-970 line resolution! $145 

IBM MONOCHROME green , $345 

Princeton Graphics HX-12 RGB for PC $485 

Taxan VISION-lll-hi-res for IBM & ll-E $533 



We say it more often 

because we have it 

more often. 

IBM PC SYSTEM 

•2 DSDD DRIVES »64K •COLOR 

GRAPHICS »DOS »12" AMBER CRT 

LIST... $3100 NOW... $2750 

ADD $135 TO GET dBASE II TUTORIAL 

APPLE ll-E STARTER SYSTEM 

•CPU-64K »80 COLUMN CARD 

•12" GREEN CRT »STAND 
LIST. ..$1995 NOW. ..$1775 

BUY NOW TO GET FREE Z-80 CARD 

EPSON QX-10 

WITH VALDOCS 
$2495 

NEC APC MONOCHROME 

•2 8" DRIVES «8086 CPU 'EXCELLENT 
DISPLAY AND KEYBOARD 

NOW ONLY $2650 
NEW APC COLOR... $3250 

RANA ELITE 1000 

DOUBLE DENSITY DRIVE FOR ATARI 
$385 

BROTHER DAISYWHEEL 

•17 CPS "MODEL #HR-1A 
$695 

THINLINE DRIVE FOR IBM 

$275 

CHAMELEON, COLUMBIA, COMPAC, 

CORONA, KAYPRO, FRANKLIN, 

OSBORNE 

We carry all models. 

dBASE II TUTORIAL 

INCLUDES MANUAL AND SOFTWARE 

SPECIFY CP/M OR MS-DOS 

$265 

MICROPRO SPECIALS 

FOR APPLE: WORDSTAR 81 CP/M 

LIST... $495 NOW... $295 

FOR APPLE: INFOSTAR & CP/M 

LIST... $495 NOW... $295 

FOR IBM-PC, APPLE, & ALL CP/M: 

WORDSTAR/SPELLSTAR/MAIL 

MERGE/STAR INDEX 

LIST... $895 NOW... $395 

S-100 THINLINE COMPUTER 

•Z-80 CPU «CP/M «64K «2 8" DRIVES 

WITH 2MBYTE TOTAL 

•6 MOTHERBOARD SLOTS 

NOW WITH dBASE II TUTORIAL 

$2100 

MASTER-FLEX DISKETTES 

WE PRIVATE-LABELED THE BEST 

BRAND. 5 YEAR WARRANTY. 

5%"SSDD...$20(box10) 

5%"DSDD...$27(box10) 

TASKMASTER FOR IBM 

SOFTWARE TO RUN 9 JOBS 

SIMULTANEOUSLY 

NOT $900 NOT $350 JUST $125 



FOR APPLE & FRANKLIN 

ALS CP/M Card-64K, CP/M 3.0 $295 

16K RAM Card $55 

80 COLUMN CARD for II + & Franklin $95 

80 COLUMN with 64K-for ll-E $145 

dBase II (requires CP/M) $419 

Davong 10 MByte hard disk-BEST BUY $1 695 

Dumpling 16K-graphics and buffer, expandable . . $160 

Grappler+ $125 

Graphics Interface with Cable $85 

Hayes Micromodem II with MICROPRO Package . . .$295 

INFOSTAR with CP/M-MICR0PR0 Package $295 

Microsoft MULTIPLAN $190 

Rana Elte One-still the best $275 

Rana Elite One Plus-with controller $355 

Rana Elite Two-double storage $435 

Rana Elite Three-quad storage $555 

Serial Interface $105 

SSM Modemcard w/SOURCE $285 

VISTA QUARTET (2 drives, thin, 640K, controller) $685 
WORDSTAR with CP/M-MicroPro package- 
list $495 $295 

Z-80 CARD $115 



MODEMS 

Hayes Smartmodem 300 $215 

Hayes Smartmodem1200-outsells the rest $515 

Novation J-CAT $110 

Novation 103/212 SMART (direct connect) $385 

Novation 103 SMART (direct connect) $179 

RIXON R212A-300/1200 SMART $365 



PRINTERS 

Epson MX-80FT Type III $475 

Epson MX-100-w/Graphtrax $685 

Epson FX-80-160cps, friction, sprocket. . : $565 

Brother HR-1A17cps daisywheel, enhanced $695 

F-10 Starwriter-40cps, Diablo codes $1 1 55 

Graphic Printer-50cps, 5x7 matrix, sprocket $199 

Mannesmann-Tally 160L-uses Daisy software $755 

NEC 3550 $1865 

NEC 7730 $2145 

Okidata-uses standard spool type ribbons 

n82A-serial/parallel/friction/sprocket $405 

M.84AP-200cps, 132 column, parallel $955 

(jl92-160cps, 80 column, parallel $495 

n93-160cps, wide $895 

Prowriter(C. ltoh8510A)-120cps, proportional. .$372 

Prowriterll (C. ltoh1550A)-wide carriage $665 

Gemini 10-80 column, 100cps $325 

Gemini 15-15" wide $455 

Toshiba #1350-top of the line dot matrix $1555 



Verity prices by phone. Add 2% tor Visa or MasterCard. 
Add 6 1 2° n on California orders. Orders perpaid with 
check, cashiers check, money order or wire transfer are 
shipped prepaid within the Continental U.S. COD'S 
require 10% non-refundable deposit (re-stocking tee). 

IRONSIDES 

COMPUTER r lf 
CORP 




Customer Service- 
Product Selection Advice 

(213) 344-3563 
ORDERS (800) 528-9537 

18905 Sherman Way 
Reseda, CA 91335 

Visit our new, enlarged showroom. 



Circle 214 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 379 



provided with the operating system. Including MAC and 
RMAC is a major step forward for CP/M Plus and is an 
important selling point. 

To modify the BIOS or write some system extensions, 
it is necessary to link assembler modules together. LINK 
version 1.3 A is included with CP/M Plus for this reason. 
This version of LINK has an extra option, B, which is 
used to. link the BIOS for a banked CP/M Plus system. 
Earlier versions of LINK do not accept this command. 
LIB, a library-manager program, is included to let you 
develop and maintain libraries of linkable routines to be 
used by many programs. 

Another major advance in the design of CP/M Plus is 
the GENCPM program. Previous versions of CP/M re- 
quire that you follow a complicated and confusing se- 
quence of steps to assemble and load a new BIOS and in- 
stall a new version of CP/M. With CP/M Plus, you need 
only reassemble the modified part of the BIOS, relink it, 
and run GENCPM. GENCPM asks you a series of ques- 
tions about how the system should be configured (for ex- 
ample, top of memory, whether hashing is used, whether 
you are installing a banked or nonbanked version, etc.) 
and generates a new CPM3.SYS system file for you. 
GENCPM is an incredible program in itself. It performs 
the same kinds of functions as a linker and handles all the 
configuration details as well. It even lets you create a 
GENCPM.DAT file that has the entire sequence of con- 
figuration questions in it. After you have gone through 



Our Portable Computers Can Carry 
Very Heavy Loads. 




THE JM3000 

Series Portable Computers: 
'Suitable for large variety of software and hardware applications. 
6502 CPU; Memory: 64KB RAM; Attached Keyboard; 5'/4" 
Floppy Disk; 6 Expansion Slots (Apple Bus); Software Com- 
patible with Apple II; Fan; 5" CRT. Optional: 5%" Winchester 
for Local Area Network; 12VDC Operational. 
Dimensions: 124(H)x330(W)x355(D)mm. Smaller, lighter, 
thoroughly tested and burned-in for 120 hours before shipment. 

Distributor and rep. inquires invited. 
JOINING INSTRUMENTS & EQUIPMENT CO. 

525 Chung Hsiao E. Rd., Sec. 7, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. 

Telex: 27774 JOINING Tel: (02) 763-0138 

•Apple II is a registered trade mark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



the generation process once, you simply type GENCPM 
AUTO and the entire process repeats automatically. 

For example, if you have a working BIOS and wish to 
change the number of buffers, the top of memory, or the 
size of the console display (in rows and columns), you 
only have to rerun GENCPM and answer the questions 
differently. The BIOS need not be modified. 

Batch Facility 

As in CP/M 2.2, the SUBMIT command lets you ex- 
ecute a sequence of commands in unattended operation. 
This version of SUBMIT can also contain program input 
lines. Any line preceded by a " < " character is used as in- 
put to a program rather than as a command sent to 
CP/M Plus itself. 

CP/M Plus lets you change the file search order (when 
you type in the name of a program to be executed). Nor- 
mally, if you type in a command such as MBASIC, you 
are really telling CP/M Plus to search the directory for a 
file called MBASIC.COM and if found, to load and ex- 
ecute it as a program. CP/M Plus also (if you desire) 
searches for files with a file type of .SUB. The SETDEF 
command lets you select the desired search order: COM, 
or COM - SUB, SUB - COM, or just SUB. Thus, CP/M 
Plus might first search for a file called MBASIC (in this 
example) with a file type of COM. If it isn't found, the 
CCP tries to find a file of type SUB. If a submit file is 
found, it invokes the submit program and executes the 
entire sequence of commands found in the file. 

For example, if you have a sequence of commands that 
you enter each time you load MBASIC, you can change 
the search order to SUB - COM, then create a file named 
MBASIC. SUB that contains the desired sequence. When 
you type MBASIC, CP/M Plus executes the submit file 
instead of the COM file. By changing the name of the ac- 
tual MBASIC program to something else (MB AS, for ex- 
ample), you can then include the command in the submit 
file and have SUBMIT execute it for you. 

Another nice feature of CP/M Plus is that, upon 
loading, it executes a file called PROFILE. SUB if one is 
found on disk. This capability allows a more straight- 
forward means of executing a series of start-up com- 
mands than is available in previous versions of CP/M. 
For example, you can create a profile file that contains 
these commands: 



DATE SET 

SETDEF *,B: [ORDER - 



(COM,SUB)] 



CP/M Plus first asks you to enter the date and time, 
and then it invokes the SETDEF utility to set the drive 
search order (default drive, then B: drive) and the search 
order for command and submit files. 

Resident System Extensions 

Many programs written for CP/M 2.2 automatically 
relocate themselves to the top of the TPA and change the 
top-of-memory pointer at location 0005 hexadecimal in 



380 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 469 on inquiry card. 



memory. This is often done to free up the bottom of the 
TPA for other programs. Both DDT and SID work this 
way because the program to be debugged loads at loca- 
tion 0100 hexadecimal. To make everything work right, 
the program must first make sure that when the BDOS is 
called at location 0005 hexadecimal, control properly 
transfers to the BDOS. If desired, the program can in- 
tercept BDOS calls and check for a function that it is to 
perform. Some manufacturers implement RAM (random- 
access read/write memory) disks or hard disks this way 
to avoid having to modify the BIOS (see figure 3). 

Digital Research has formalized this approach in the 
form of the RSX (resident system extension). RSX 
modules can be stacked from the top of the TPA down, 
theoretically, to the bottom of the TPA. Each RSX entry 
point must check for a BDOS call that it is supposed to 
handle and, if found, transfer control to that part of 
itself. If the BDOS call is to be handled by the BDOS or 
some higher RSX, it must pass it through to the next 
higher level. CP/M Plus includes a utility that creates an 
RSX and converts one to an executable COM file. This 
way, you can load an RSX by typing its name. The 
BDOS transfers control to it and causes it to relocate at 
the top of the TPA. 

The RSX is a useful concept for vendors trying to sup- 
port specialized hardware such as a RAM disk, hard disk, 
or some other I/O card or modification to a standard per- 



NEXT-RSX 




RSX 



LOADER 
FLAG 



8 CHARACTER RSX NAME 



PREVIOUS- RSX 



• I = 0005H IF THIS IS THE FIRST RSX ) 



JMP NEXT-RSX 



JMP RSX-START 



6-BYTE SERIAL NUMBER ] 



PREVIOUS-RSX 



Figure 3: The RSX (resident system extension) is a module 
loaded just under the top of the TPA that intercepts all BDOS 
calls from a program. If the BDOS call is one that the RSX 
should handle, it performs the desired function and returns to 
the caller. If the RSX doesn't recognize the function requested, it 
simply passes it on to the BDOS. An RSX can be used to imple- 
ment extended hardware support for a computer (such as a 
RAM disk or hard disk), thus avoiding having to rewrite the 
BIOS to support new hardware. 



Func 


Function Name 


Comments 




03 


Auxiliary Input 


Replaces Reader Input 




04 


Auxiliary Output 


Replaces Punch Output 




07 


Auxiliary Input Status 






08 


Auxiliary Output Status 






41 


Test and Write Record 


MP/M compatibility 




42 


Lock Record 


MP/M compatibility 




43 


Unlock Record 


MP/M compatibility 




44 


Set Multisector count 






45 


Set BDOS error mode 






46 


Get Disk free space 






47 


Chain to program 






48 


Flush buffers 






49 


Get/Set system control block 






50 


Direct BIOS calls 






59 


Load overlay 






60 


Call resident system extension 






98 


Free blocks 






99 


Truncate file 






100 


Set directory label 




' 


101 


Return directory label data 






102 


Read file date stamps and password mode 






103 


Write file XFCB 






104 


Set date and time 






105 


Get date and time 






106 


Set default password 






107 


Return serial number 






108 


Get/Set program return code 






109 


Get/Set console mode 






110 


Get/Set Output delimiter 






111 


Print block 






112 


List block 






152 


Parse Filename 






Table 1: New BDOS functions. 







July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 381 



BDOS Function 109 input parameter in registers DE: 

Bit 0: 1 = Control-C only status for BDOS function 11. 
= Normal status for function 11. 

Bit 1: 1 = Disable stop scroll, Control-S, start scroll, Control-Q support. 
= Enable stop and start scroll support. 

Bit 2: 1 = Raw console output mode. Disable tab expansion for BDOS functions 2, 9, and 1 1 1 . Disable printer echo, Control-P support. 
= Normal console output mode. 

Bit 3: 1 = Disable Control-C program termination. 
= Enable Control-C program termination. 

Bits 8, 9: Set console status mode for RSXs that perform console input redirection from a file. 

Bit 8 Bit 9 Action 









conditional status 





1 


false status 


1 





true status 


1 


1 


bypass redirection 



Table 2: CP/M Plus lets you change the way the console responds to Control-C and other Control keys. 



sonal computer. For example, a disk containing the RSX 
can be shipped with the specialized hardware, eliminating 
the need for custom interface software or user modifica- 
tion of the BIOS source code (which may not come with 
the computer in the first place). 

BDOS Enhancements 

As discussed earlier, the BDOS has new features such 
as directory hashing, internal blocking and deblocking, 
and banked-memory support. It also supports RSX 
modules, time and date stamping, and password protec- 
tion. Some new BDOS function calls have been added to 
make these features accessible. Table 1 lists some of the 
new functions. 

CP/M Plus supports three error modes: Default, 
Return Error, and Return and Display. The Default mode 
simply displays an error message on the console device 
and terminates the program. The Return Error mode sets 
the A register to 255 (OFF hexadecimal) and places the er- 
ror code in the H register, then returns to the program. 
The Return and Display mode first displays the error 
message on the console, then returns the error code to the 
program. 

In previous versions of CP/M, some programmers 
were not happy going through the BDOS to perform such 
functions as console I/O. CP/M Plus includes BDOS 
function number 50 for direct BIOS calls. This lets the 
programmer set up registers and access the BIOS directly 
for special applications. Although the old method of 
locating the BIOS and calling it still works in CP/M Plus, 
it is not recommended for compatibility reasons. 

Function number 107 will be praised by software ven- 
dors and despised by many users. When called, it returns 
the 6-byte serial number of the copy of CP/M Plus cur- 
rently running. 



It is now possible to read and set a program return code 
from within a program. This lets a series of programs be- 
ing chained into memory read the return code of the 
previous program to determine if it terminated normally 
or not. The program return code is also used to pass an 
abnormal end code to subsequent batch jobs in a submit 
file. Thus, you can set up a batch job stream to compile, 
link, and execute a program without intervention. If the 
first or second steps of the sequence aren't completed 
properly, the remaining steps won't execute. 

In CP/M Plus the mode of the console can be queried 
and altered using function 109. Table 2 shows the 
console-mode bits and their values. One useful mode 
control lets the Control-C key be deactivated during pro- 
gram execution to prevent you from terminating a pro- 
gram with files still open. 

Finally, most specialized MP/M functions such as Lock 
and Unlock Record are included in CP/M Plus for 
program-level compatibility, although these functions do 
nothing in CP/M. Also, the Parse Filename function is in- 
cluded to simplify decoding of file specifications (file 
name, file type, drive, and password). Because this func- 
tion is used by some high-level languages, Digital Re- 
search decided to include it in CP/M Plus. 

Modular BIOS Concept 

The CP/M Plus BIOS is similar in many ways to 
CP/M 2.2's BIOS and in some ways is easier to imple- 
ment. The disk blocking and deblocking function has 
been removed from the BIOS and placed in the BDOS to 
improve performance. However, many other features of 
the new BIOS make it considerably more difficult to in- 
stall; the banked-memory-support feature proves the 
most difficult. 

The CP/M Plus BIOS can be developed in one huge 



382 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 




DAWN OF A NEW GENERATION 



RELIANT • EFFICIENT • UPGRADABLE 

CMC 8/16 SuperSystem n 



• TurboDOS*, CP/M** and CP/M-86** operating 
systems 

» floppy and hard disk drives 
SuperNet, local area networking, accom- 
modates up to 16 users with 6 MB to 52 MB 
storage 

All stand-alone models utilize 750K to 19 MB 
storage and can be field-upgraded to 
SuperNet status 



All 8-bit SuperSystems are easily upgraded to 

our new 8/16-bit system which features 

Intel's 80186 Processor and full CP/M-86 

compatibility 

"Perfect Writer" word processing standard 

with all models 

Generous dealer and OEM discounts 

6 month warranty 

National on-site service in over 1 50 cities 



•TurboDOS is registered Trademark ot S ftw wt 2000 
**CP/M is a registered Trademark of Dkj. 'en. Inc. 



CMC International 

1720 130th Avenue N.E. 

Bellevue, w'ashinaton 98005 

(206) 885-1600 Telex 152556 SEATAC 



CircN 3 rt 



BOOT 



PINIT 

PLDCCP 
PRLCCP 
PTIME 



MOVE 



PBANK 
PMOVE 
PXMOVE 






BIOSKRNL 



JUMP VECTORS FOR BIOS 
ROUTINES 



I 



SCB 



_A_ 



SYSTEM CONTROL 
BLOCK 



£ 



SAMPLE XDPH 



XDPH- 



DPH- 



ADDRESS OF WRITE ROUTINE 



ADDRESS OF READ ROUTINE 



ADDRESS OF LOGIN ROUTINE 



ADDRESS OF INIT ROUTINE 



TYPE 



UNIT 



ADDRESS OF SECTOR SKEW TABLE 



DISKIO 



PCINIT 

PCI 

PCO 

PCIST 

PCOST 



I 



XDPH 
XDPH 



( DISK READ/WRITE 
ROUTINES) 



7 



DRVTBL 




EXTENDED 

DISK PARAMETER HEADER 

(XDPH) 



REMAINDER OF 

DISK PARAMETER HEADER 

(DPH) 



(olDTBL 

(POINTERS TO 
XDPHs) 



£ 



Figure 4: The linkable modular BIOS can be broken into several easy-to-maintain segments, as shown here, allowing a manufacturer 
to supply a disk I/O module with its disk-controller board without having to worry about making the rest of the BIOS compatible. In 
the same way, character I/O devices can be separated into modules to simplify system integration. Furthermore, breaking the BIOS 
into logical sections makes it easier to maintain and modify. 



source file, as can the 2.2 BIOS. Because you must use the 
linker program to generate an SPR (system page 
relocatable) file, however, you might as well break up the 
BIOS into manageable pieces. Digital Research provides 
the assembler source file for a BIOS kernel, which is not 
to be modified under any circumstances. It contains the 
jump vectors that the BDOS interfaces with and supports 
the disk modules and character I/O modules. The 
manual lists a series of subroutines that must be written 
by the systems programmer to interface with the BIOS 
kernel. These routines include Load CCP, Reload CCP, 
disk init, character device init, read character, write 
character, and so on. This level of organization actually 
makes the BIOS easier to write once you get out of the 
habit of writing actual BIOS subroutines, as was done in 
CP/M 2.2 (see figure 4). 

All the modules of the BIOS — bioskrnl, chario, diskio, 
boot, move, scb, and drvtbl — can be assembled with 
RMAC and linked together using the supplied LINK ver- 
sion 1.3A. You must specify the "OS" option in the linker 
to generate an SPR file (called BIOS3.SPR). 

Conclusions 

CP/M Plus turns CP/M into a professional operating 
system that makes up for many mistakes of the past. It 
supports the automatic log in of disks, which in the end 
may be its most significant selling point. In benchmark 
tests, it performs disk data transfers from 4 to 10 times 
faster than CP/M 2.2, depending on the hardware of the 
system and the way the BIOS is written. It supports 
banked memory, which allows for larger buffers, more 
BDOS functions, and a larger TPA for user programs. 



The nonbanked version of CP/M Plus is slightly larger 
than CP/M 2.2; therefore, about 2K bytes of TPA are 
lost. This really isn't a problem with most software 
packages because few require all that space to operate. 

CP/M Plus is not without its problems. I have been 
writing and modifying BlOSes for CP/M for several 
years and it took about one full-time week to make 
CP/M Plus work. This was primarily due to the problem 
of extricating the disk read/write routines from the 
blocking/deblocking source code of my CP/M 2.2 BIOS. 
The rest of the nonbanked BIOS was easy. The banked 
BIOS was considerably more difficult because, when 
debugging it, you can't see into the other bank to find out 
what is happening. Digital Research doesn't plan to offer 
CP/M Plus directly to end users because of the problems 
of implementing the BIOS. It will be up to hardware/ 
software vendors to support BIOS modules for their 
products. I personally don't recommend writing a BIOS 
unless you have written one from the ground up or have 
had that level of systems-programming experience. ■ 



Please direct all requests for information about CP/M Plus to 
Digital Research. 



Acknowledgments 

The author wishes to thank Kathy Strutynski, Tom Mason, and 
Susan Raab at Digital Research for their assistance. 



About the Author 

Mark Dahmke is a consulting editor for BYTE. 



384 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



kfc' 





Plug 3,000 new applications 

into your Apple! 



THE CP/M Card™ plugs CP/M Plus™ into your Apple. 

The CP/M Card gives you the option of running your Apple II 

with the speed and capability of a professional Z-80 system 

with CP/M®-compatible software. You plug in the CP/M 

Card. Then choose CP/M or your standard Apple software 

at your option. 
Plug into a big, new world of software. 
The CP/M Card gives you instant access to the world's largest 
selection of microcomputer software— more than 3,000 
CP/M-compatible applications, languages, and 
programming utilities. So, you, too can use pro- 
fessional business programs such as WordStar,* 
SuperCalc,™ Condor,™ and other high-performance 
software from Day One. Yet, you still have access 
to your present library of Apple software. 
Plug into incredible performance. 



300% faster than your Apple system! The CP/M Card is the 
only Apple II performance package that offers the speed and 
efficiency of CP/M Plus. 
A plug about quality. 

The CP/M Card was designed and built by Digital Research, 
the creators of CP/M, and Advanced Logic Systems, the most 
respected manufacturer of Apple performance products. So 
you know the CP/M Card is the most perfectly integrated 
Apple performance package you can buy. 

Why just keep plugging along? The CP/M Card 

-, 1 provides everything you need— including 64K of 

I on-board memory, CP/M Plus, CBASIC," 

GSX™-80 and full documentation— for just $399. 

Now available through the CP/M library. 
See your local microcomputer dealer today. Or 
contact Advanced Logic Systems, 1195 East 



Together, the ultra-fast CP/M Card and A . ,_._ _ _ _i i _ • _ c , ,„+^~^ Arques Ave., Sunnyvale, CA 94086 (800) 

CP/M Plus run applications up to ACIVanCeCI LOglC OySTeiTIS 538-8177. (In California (408) 730-0306.) 

The CP/M Card for your Apple II. 

CP/M, CP/M Plus, the CP/M Card and CBASIC are either trademarks or registered trademarks of Digital Research Inc. Z-80 is a registered trademark of Zilog, Inc. 
WordStar is a registered trademark of MicroPro International Corporation. SuperCalc is a trademark of Sorcim Corporation. Condor is a trademark of Condor Computer 
Corporation. GSX-80 is a trademark of Graphics Software System. Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. ©1982 Digital Research Inc. 

Circle 13 on inquiry card. 



W% make the Wyse decision: 



:,«»*■••• 









IF COLOR IS A LUXURY YOU 
THINK YOU CANT AFFORD, 
THINK ABOUT OUR WY300— 
the smart color terminal as low as $975.' 

The WY300's high-resolution 8-color 
display adds vivid relief to any text 
editing or data entry task, without 
adding significantly to the price you'd 
pay for monochrome- 'Quantity 100 



Our new W Y300 color terminal gives you great color 
— - -w^ for less than $\000. 



Ergonomically designed with a swivel 
and tilt CRT and a detachable key- 
board, the compact WY300 fits into 
the workplace as comfortably as it does 
into your budget. 

On top of that, the WY300 gives you a 
host of features like a soft downloadable 
character generator; extensive alpha- 
numeric and line drawing symbols; and 



compatibility with most standard, mono- 
chrome oriented, off-the-shelf software. 

Best of all, the WY300 is plug compat- 
ible with our monochromatic WYlOO's 
and most ASCII terminals. So, using 
color is as easy as it is inexpensive. 



Need more information? Call or write 
us today. We'd like to convince you our 
smart color terminal is your wisest buy. 



WY/€ 



Circle 450 on Inquiry card. 



WYSE TECHNOLOGY. 3040 N. first St.. San lose 
CA 95134. 408/946-3075. TLX 910-338-2251. 
in the east, call 516/293-5563. call toll free. 
800/538-8157, ext. 932. in CA. 800/672-3470. ext. 932. 



Hardware Review 



Quadram Corporation's MX700 

A two-page video-display terminal 

by Curtis P. Feigel 



Quadram's MX700 is a microprocessor-based video 
terminal that uses sophisticated technology to provide 
features not available on other terminals. The unit's dis- 
play is capable of showing the equivalent of two type- 
written pages, side by side, on a single screen. The de- 
tached keyboard is a popular model that has its own 
microprocessor and incorporates software-controllable 
indicators and special-function keys. These features make 
the MX700 an excellent video terminal for use with word 
processors and spreadsheet programs (see photo 1). 

Why So Big? 

As computer interfaces go, video terminals are the 
largest. They are capable of communicating more infor- 
mation at a time than any other peripheral. True, we 
don't normally think of video terminals as interfaces, but 
rather as output devices; perhaps this is an aspect of 
human/ computer interaction that ought to be more care- 
fully considered. In fact, if you think of a video terminal 
as a parallel port to the human brain, then the MX700 is 
close to ideal: it is just large enough to fill your main field 
of view when you're seated at the keyboard, but not so 
large as to be overwhelming. 

This means that when you're editing text, for example, 
you can more easily see the relationship between the 
piece of text you're modifying and the context that sur- 
rounds it than you can on a display showing less text. 
The terminal takes over part of the editing burden by 
making organization obvious and allows you to devote 
your brain power to being creative. 

Where the MX700 really shines is with software that 
employs windows. Using the terminal's ability to display 
two whole pages — each from a different file, if you 
like — is just like working at a desk. You can be typing on 
one page while referring to a whole page of notes. 

It's unfortunate that the technology making this possi- 
ble is expensive (list price of the unit is $2395), but an 




Photo 1: Quadram's MX700, a two-page video-display termi- 
nal. 

extremely high bandwidth video monitor is required, 
along with special electronics to drive it. And to display 
so much information as quickly as it does, the unit must 
employ memory that is 36 bits wide rather than the usual 
8 bits. 

The Display 

The outstanding feature of the MX700 — the whole 
reason for its existence — is its enormous screen, but the 
terminal has other screen attributes to recommend it. It 
has a combination of features rarely found in one unit 
and can display in a variety of formats and character 
sizes. 

The video monitor, a 17-inch (diagonal measure) Ball 
Brothers unit, can display over half a million pixels (pic- 
ture elements). Its screen area measures 13 inches wide by 
10 inches high (by comparison, the screen area of a stan- 
dard 12-inch video monitor is 9 inches by 6V2 inches). In 
its densest format, the MX700 can show over 10,500 



388 July 19S3 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 278 on inquiry card. > 



Now...Supercharged communications 
software for your high powered 16 bit PC 



The makers of CROSSTALK proudly announce the newest entry into ow 
line of high performance communications software. CROSSTALK XV! - 
a communications program with the speed and f eatures of o fine rat :<ng 
machine. Shift from status display to jnroming communications ond 
bock again at full throttle. Drive smoothly through the progmm with 
CROSSTALK XVI's integrated help system. Enjoy the full use of function 
keys. CROSSTALK XVI can be used with most outodial modems, and 
emulates several of the most used terminols Test drive CROSSTAl K XVI 
today ot your local dealer. 




ice** 



XVI 



2>. 



1 845 The Exchange / Suite 1 40 / Atlanta Georgia 30339 / (404) 952 0267 



COSSTAi K > V is o tioder^grk of Micros 



Circle 74 on inquiry card. 



GRAPHICS 

The Imaqinator .. .$445. 



ASSEMBLED AMD TESTED 




H/Z-89 



H/Z-19 



Professional Graphics at Practical Prices 

IN USE THROUGHOUT INDUSTRY, EDUCATION AND GOVERNMENT 

♦ High Resolution 504x247 ♦ Accessible through any high 
level language FORTRAN, Pascal, BASIC, Etc. ♦ Onboard 
Microcomputer eliminates processing load on host ♦ Source 
Code Available ♦ Rich Graphics Instruction Set ♦ Mix text 
and graphics ♦ Tektronix® 4010-4014 Compatibility Option 
with GIN Mode ♦ Comprehensive Documentation includes 
numerous examples ♦ Fully buffered for Asynchronous 
Operation ♦ All original H/Z features remain intact ♦ Low 
Cost -$445. complete, Kits from $215. 

Cleveland Codonics, Inc. 

P.O. Box 45259 Cleveland, OH 44145 (216) 327-6405 

Tektronix^ ■ Registered Trade Mark of Tektronix Inc. 




sun sum suss nanus sans 

B 

m 
m 

H 



The Latest Rage! 



We have in-stock the latest 
Computer equipment 
at the lowest prices ! 



n 
n 
n 
n 
n 
■ 
n 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
n 
n 
n 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 

a COMPUTER DISCOUNT 

Si P.O. Box 7716 Silver Spring, Maryland 20910 

a 
aaaannnnnnnnnnnnnnn 



§SANYO mbciooo $1495.00 

includes: 

WORDSTAR, CALCSTAR, MAILMERGE, 

SPELLSTAR, INFOSTAR, SBASIC, 

CP/M, GAMES, TELECOMMUNICATIONS, 

AND UPDATED OPERATING SYSTEMS 

$500.00 



EFD-160 
EXTRA DISK DRIVE 



(301)565-0559 




DISCOUNT CENTER FOR: 

• SYSTEMS 

• PRINTERS 

• DRIVES 

• DISKS 

• PERIPHERALS 

• ACCESSORIES 



n 
n 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
m 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
n 
a 
a 
n 



At a Glance 

Name 

MX700 

Manufacturer 

Quadram Corporation 
4357 Park Dr. 
Norcross, GA 30093 
(404) 923-6666 

Price 

S2395 

Components 

Separate keyboard unit and display unit, each with its own 
microprocessor 

Keyboard: 3 inches high, 1 8 inches wide, 7 inches deep: 82 
keys including a QWERTY typewriter layout sec- 
tion, a numeric keypad, and four special-function 
keys 

Display: 16 inches high, 16 inches wide, 20 inches deep: 

can display the following formats: 
66 lines by 1 60 small characters 
2 pages of 66 lines by 78 small characters 
66 lines by 80 wide characters 
33 lines by 160 high characters 
33 lines by 80 large characters 



characters; a standard video terminal (24 lines of 80 char- 
acters) shows only 1920 characters, 18 percent of what 
the MX700 is capable of. 

Besides the size of the screen, the MX700 has several 
display features not always found on video terminals. 
Smooth scroll is a sophisticated technique that allows dis- 
played characters to be scrolled a single pixel row at a 
time (as opposed to scrolling by whole characters — 8 or 
10 pixel rows). This makes a quickly scrolling display 
easier to read. The page-split feature allows the display to 
be viewed as two side-by-side pages of text, and the re- 
verse-background capability shows black characters on a 
white background. Character sizes may be doubled in ei- 
ther or both dimensions. Small characters are 5 by 7 pix- 
els, wide characters are 10 by 7 pixels, high characters are 
5 by 14 pixels, and large characters are 10 by 14 pixels. 

A variety of character sizes and screen formats may be 
selected (see the "At a Glance" box for a complete list), 
but these combinations seem to be the most useful: 

• 33 lines of 80 large characters: this produces a display 
that is easy to read (see photo 2a). It seems suitable for a 
classroom and would allow 8 to 10 people to view the 
same screen; it might also be used by individuals with 
poor eyesight. 

• 66 lines of 160 small characters: the breadth of this for- 
mat makes it ideal for displaying spreadsheet programs. 

• 132 lines of 78 small characters: this format uses special 
hardware to split the screen vertically, producing a 
display equivalent to two typewritten pages placed side 
by side (the similarity to two sheets of paper can be 
heightened by configuring the terminal to show black 



390 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



(tm smc mm mmm 




S-100 STATIC MEMORY 
BREAKTHROUGH 



1 



Finally, you can buy state-of-the-art 
S-100/IEEE 696 static memory for your 
computer at an unprecedented savings. 

Memory Merchant's memory 
boards provide the advanced features, 
quality and reliability you need for the 
kind of operational performance 
demanded by new high-speed 
processors. 

Completely Assembled. 

These memory boards are not kits, 
nor skeletons — but top-quality, high- 
performance memories that are shipped 
to you completely assembled, burned-in, 
socketed, tested and insured with one of 
the industry's best warranties. 

Superior Design & Quality. 

Memory Merchant's boards are 
created by a designer, well known for his 
proven ability in advanced, cost-efficient 
memory design. Innovative circuitry 
provides you with highly desired features 
and incredible versatility. 

Only first-quality components are 
used throughout, and each board is 
rigorously tested to assure perfect and 
dependable performance. 

No Risk Trial. 

We are so convinced that you will 
be absolutely delighted with our boards 
that we extend a no-risk trial offer. After 
purchasing one of our boards, you may 
return it (intact) for any reason within 15 
days after shipment and we will refund 
the purchase price (less shipping). 



NEW S-100 PRODUCTS COMING 
SOON: 

* DUAL8/16BITCPUBOARD 

* 128K 8/16 BIT STATIC RAM 

* 256K 8/16 BIT DYNAMIC RAM 




FULL TWO-YEAR 
WARRANTY. 



48K PARTIALLY POPULATED $519. 
32K PARTIALLY POPULATED $409. 

■ 1 

64K RAM, MODEL MM65K16S 

• 64K X 8-bit 

• Speed in excess of 6 MHz 

• Uses 1 50ns 1 6K (2K x 8) static RAMS 

• Ultra-low power (435 Ma. max. — 
loaded with 64K) 

• Bank Select and Extended Addressing 

• A 2K window which can be placed 
anywhere in the 64K memory map 

• Four independently addressable 16K 
blocks organized as: 

— Two independent 32K banks or 

— One 64K Extended Address Page or 

— One 48K and one 16K bank for use 
in MP/M 1 (option) 

• Each 32K bank responds 
independently to phantom 

• 2716 (5V) EPROMS may replace any or 
all of the RAM 

• Field-proven operation in CROMEMCO 
CROMIX*andCDOS*. 

• Compatible with latest IEEE 696 
systems such as Northstar, CompuPro, 
Morrow, IMS, IMSAI front panel, Altair 
and many others. 

OEM and DEALER inquiries invited. 



c 



3 



^/merchant 

14666 Doolittle Drive 

San Leandro, CA 94577 

(415)483-1008 

Circle 257 on inquiry card. 



3 



The reliability of our boards, 
through quality-controlled production and 
proven performance, has enabled us to 
extend our warranty to a full two years. 
That's standard with us, not an option. 
This includes a 6-month exchange 
program for defective units. 

Shipped direct from stock. 

All Memory Merchant's boards are 
shipped direct from stock, normally 
within 48 hours of receipt of your order. 
Call us at (415) 483-1008 and we may be 
able to ship the same day. 

16K RAM, Model 
MM16K14 




16Kx8Bit 16K STATIC RAM $169. 

Bank Select & Extended Addressing 
Four independently addressable 4K 

blocks 
One 4K segment equipped with 1 K 

windows 
Uses field-proven 21 14 (1 K x 4) RAMS 
Low Power (less than 1 .2 Amps) 
Runs on any S-100 8080, 4 MHz Z-80 or 

5 MHz 8085 system. 

Prices, terms, specifications subject to 
change without notice. 

•Cromix and CDOS are trademarks of CROMEMCO 
' MP/M is a trademark of Digital Research 



Circle 237 on inquiry card. 



UV EPROM ERASER x 



* Erases over IS EPROMS - IS minutes erase time 

* Element lite 7700 hours 

* Intensity: 1ZWs Vicm' at 1" 

* Erases all UV EPROMS (2716. 2732, 2516. 2532. etc ) 




$49.95 

* HOBBY MODEL 

INDUSTRIAL MODEL 

QUV-T8/2N 

$68.95 

WITH TIMER AND 

SAFETY SWITCH 

QUV-T8/2T 
$97.50 



PROGRAMS: 2508, 2516, 2532, 2716, 27C16, 27C32, 
2732, 2732A, 2758. 8748, 8749H, 8748H 
OPTIONAL MODULES: 2564, 2764, 8755A, 8741 

* STAND ALONE, CRT, OR COMPUTER CONTROL 

* UPLOAD /DOWNLOAD IN MOTOROLA OR INTEL HEX FORMAT 

* MICROPROCESSOR BASED * 4 K INTERNAL RAM 

* 90 DAY PARTS & LABOR WARRANTY ON ALL PRODUCTS 

SOON TO BE RELEASED: 

PROMPRO-8 128K Version $689. 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE 



INTELLIGENT 

PROGRAMMER 

STAND ALONE 

RS-232 

* RELIABLE 

* EASY COPY (No external 
equipment needed) 

* USER FRIENDLY 

COMPATIBLE: 

IBM PC, TRS-BO, APPLE, CPM, 

FLEX, TEKTRONICS, MDS 

(MCS-48) 

PROGRAMMING 

PRICE INCLUDES 

PERSONALITY MODULE 



$489.00 



LOGICAL DEVICES INC. 

781 W. OAKLAND PARK BLVD. • FT. LAUDERDALE. FL 33311 

Phone Orders (305) 974-0967 • TWX: 510-955-9496 



Newlnmac Catalog I 
jam-packed 
with computer/ 
wp supplies. 

lours free! 




Accurately called "the bible of the industry," ifs 
loaded with great products and ideas for your 
personal computer, minicomputer or word- 
processing system. You'll enjoy; 

■ One-stop shopping. Over 2,000 products 
to choose from. 

■ Easy ordering. Moil, phone, or TWX. 
Verbal RO.'s welcome. 



■ Fast delivery. 24-hour shipment. Over- 
night emergency shipments available. 

■ 45-day trial. Full refund if not completely 
satisfied. 

■ Guaranteed quality. All products field- 
tested to highest stondards. 

■ Lower shipping costs. 7 fully stocked 
distribution centers serving the U.S. 



I 
I 



Send today for your free 100-page Inmac catalog. Or phone (408) 727-1970. 



IflfTl^lf* Catalog Dept, 2465 Augustine Drive, Santa Clara, CA95051 
Mm MM MM MM Mm Please be sure to include your phone number. 

< ) 



l 



■ CITY STATE 

392 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



ZIP 




(2a) 




(2b) 



Photo 2: The range of the MX700's display capabilities. Photo 
2a shows a full-screen display using large characters in black-on- 
white mode (there are 33 lines of 80 characters). Photo 2b shows 
a split screen of small characters in black-on-white mode (each 
of the two pages has 66 lines of 78 characters). 



characters against a white background; see photo 2b). In 
this mode, new lines of characters enter the display at the 
bottom of the right-hand page and scroll up; when lines 
scroll off the top of the right-hand page, they reappear at 
the bottom of the left-hand page and scroll up. This for- 
mat is the obvious choice for word processing. 

The Keyboard 

The MX700's keyboard is a recent design manufactured 
by Key Tronic (of Spokane, Washington). It employs an 
Intel 8048 microprocessor to do away with much of the 
circuitry found in older designs. Its 82 keys are divided 
into a typewriter-like main section and a numeric key- 
pad. The main section of the keyboard has two keys not 
commonly found on video terminals: Set-Up, which pro- 



107120 ■ 

Circle 202 on inquiry card. 



EXTRA 



EXTRA 



S-100 World News 



MACROTECH International Corporation 



20630 Lassen Street, Chatsworth, California • 213-700-1501 



NOW 1 MEGABYTE MAX FOR ALPHA MICRO 




CHATSWORTH-June 30, 1983-Mike Pelkey, Macro- 
tech International President, announced today that a spe- 
cial version of MAX is now running in Alpha Micro 
Systems. 

This special version is available only through Soft Ma- 
chines of Champaign, IL. (217) 
351-7199. Howard Ogle of Soft 
Machines stated, "The new 
AM-MAX1 runs full speed with 
all three Alpha S100 machines'.' 
Ogle also said, "The AMrMAXl 
is not only the most economical 
memory for Alpha, but the most 
versatile as well. The system is 
even faster with Soft Machines' 
'GO FAST' disk cache utilities'.' 

Bob Rubendunst of Soft Machines reports, "Every 
MAX is shipped with software that greatly simplifies imple- 
mentation on bank switched systems. Also included are de- 
tailed installation instructions and diagnostic programs'.' 

Dealer inquiries and orders should be directed to Bob 
at Soft Machines. nil 



: only through Soft Ma 



HOWARD OGLE 



VIRTUAL DISK NOW NONVOLATILE 



CHATSWORTH-June 30, 1983-Mike Pel- 
key announced today the release of the latest 
addition to the Macrotech product family. The 
li- Board is a multifunction system support 
board, for use with MAXmA 128ST memo- 
ries. Used with the 128ST, this combination 
creates a complete disk emulation, including 
nonvolatility. The B- Board features include 
battery backup, power fail monitor, and charg- 
ing circuitry for on or off board batteries. 

The B- Board functions also include a time- 
of-day clock, using a National Semi device for 
hassle free operation. It also gets early warn- 
ing at power down, so the time-of-day can't 
suddenly get creative. An interrupt is availa- 
ble which can be used to turn the system on 
or off at a preset time. 

On board ROM space accepts the users' 



EPROM based program storage. It can be 
configured to accept one or a pair of any 
EPROM type from 2716 to 27256, in 8 or 16 
bit format. It supports a wake up jump option 
with full or shadowed phantom overlay. 

The ERROR TRAP feature is designed to 
support the parity error detection feature of 
the AtilYseries dynamic memories. Any acti- 
vity on the system's ERROR line causes the 
trap to record the extended address and data 
busses and 20 bits of bus status information. 
Up to 16 events can be trapped; the trap issues 
an interrupt when it's full. 

The B- Board is a logical addition to the 
growing family of Macrotech International's 
no-compromise S100 boards for no-com- 
promise users. M 



MAX Split Personality 

BURBANK-June 30, 1983-"Many current 
operating systems permit MAXto double as 
both virtual disk and system memory," stated 
Dan West of Westcom Systems. As an example, 
an MP/M 2.1* system using MAX-M could be 
configured as a 512K system memory and a 
512K Vdisk. A typical CP/M 3.0* configura- 
tion could be 256K of system memory and up 
to 768K Vdisk. CP/M 2.2? of course, only per- 
mits a 64K system memory, leaving the bal- 
ance for a virtual disk. With MAX, or the 
128ST, both functions can run simultaneous- 
ly in a single memory board. M 



MACROTECH Moves 

CHATSWORTH-June 30, 1983-Macro- 
tech has moved to larger facilities located 
at 20630 Lassen St., Chatsworth, CA 91311. 
The new phone number is (213) 700-1501. 
"Due to a healthier marketplace and a 
phenomenal demand for the MAX series, 
larger facilities were necessary. This per- 
mits additional staffing, increased produc- 
tion, and customer support levels',' said 
Mike Pelkey, President of Macrotech. M 



©1983 Macrotech International Corporation. 



Virtual Disk for CP/M 86* 

Dan West, Westcom Systems 

BURBANK-June 30, 1983- Most of the 
CP/M 86* application programs available to- 
day fail to take advantage of the possible one 
megabyte address space. Virtual Disk for 
CP/M 86* will convert this unused space into 
RAM resident disk capacity for greatly im- 
proved disk access processing. The easily in- 
stalled Virtual Disk 86 software module has 
been added to Macrotech's applications soft- 
ware available to owners of MAX series and 
128ST memory boards, nil 
Circle 245 on inquiry card. 



PRICE INDEX 




SIZE P/N 


PRICE 


Static Memory 


128K 128-ST 


$1232 


Dynamic Memory 


256K MAX-256 


$1108 


24-bit 


384K MAX-384 


1292 


Addressing 


51 2K MAX-512 


1647 




640K MAX-640 


1737 




768K MAX-768 


1815 




896K MAX-896 


1899 




1 M MAX-M 


1983 


With 16-bit M 3 Addressing option, add $91 


Software (provided 


on 8" disk) 




Virtual Disk for MP/M 2.1* and CP/M 2.2* 


CP/M 3.0* Bios moc 


lutes, 




CP/M memory tests 




$ 25 


Manuals (sold separately) 




128/ST 




$ 15 


MAX Technical Manual 


15 



• CP/M 2.2, CP/M 3.0, CP/M 86 and MP/M 2.1 are 
registered trademarks of Digital Research Inc. 



SETUP 



S — SAVE 


3 — PARITY (ODD, EVEN, NONE) 


R — RECALL 


4 — CHARSIZE (LARGE, SMALL, WIDE 




HIGH) 


— RESET 


5 — PAGE (SPLIT, FULL) 


1 —LINE MODE (ONLINE, 


6 — SCREEN (NORMAL, REVERSE) 


LOCAL) 




2 — BAUD RATE 


7 — SCROLL (SMOOTH, JUMP) 



8 — WRAP (ON, OFF) 

9 — NLM (LINE FEED, NEW LINE) 

X — HS MODE (XON/XOFF, DTR/CTS) 



Table 1: Arrangement of the menu produced when the MX700's Set-Up key is pressed. The terminal displays its present settings 
(optional settings are shown here in parentheses). You can change any setting simply by repeatedly pressing the proper item 
number or letter to cycle through all the possible settings for that item. For example, pressing the 6 key twice would change 
item number 6 from "screen normal" to "screen reverse" and back again. (The abbreviation NLM in item 9 stands for "new line 
mode. " In item X, HS stands for "high speed"; XON and XOFF are ASCII [American National Standard Code for Information 
Interchange] control codes, and DTR and CTS are abbreviations for the RS-232C signals Data Terminal Ready and Clear to 
Send.) 



duces a menu for configuring the terminal's options, and 
No Scroll, which uses handshaking protocol to tell the 
host computer to stop sending data. Each printable char- 
acter repeats when its key is held down for more than Yi 
second. 

The keypad section has four special-function keys that 
each transmit a unique character sequence for your pro- 
gram to interpret. There are eight LEDs (light-emitting 
diodes) on the keyboard; three are used to indicate the 
conditions online, local, and locked, while the other five 
can be controlled by signals from the host computer. 

The key tops are more deeply dished than usual, and 
the home-row keys are recessed slightly so that the 
keyboard has a sculpted look and is easy to type on, but 
there is almost no tactile feedback from a pressed key. All 
the keys are in the common positions except for the 
cursor-control keys, which are arranged in a horizontal 
line above the Return key and just outside the boundary 
of the main keyboard section. The easiest way to use 
them seems to be to jab the appropriate key with your 
right index finger while glancing down at the keyboard to 
make sure you get the right one. 

Operation 

Installing and using the terminal is a simple matter. 
There are no switches to set, no adjustments to make. 
Once the MX700 is connected to the host computer via an 
RS-232C cable, all you need do is press the Set-Up key to 
see a menu of the terminal's current settings (see table 1). 
Repeatedly pressing the X key or any of the numeral keys 
through 9 will cause the corresponding menu item to 
display, one at a time, each of its possible settings. 

Once the proper data rate, parity, and handshaking 
protocol are selected, the terminal is ready to use. Set- 
tings can be saved in battery-powered memory within the 
terminal and loaded automatically when the unit is 
turned on; they can also be altered by code sequences 
from the host computer. This provides a great amount of 



flexibility when used with word-processing software that 
is capable of handling function keys. 

Conclusions 

Using the MX700 terminal is a revelation. I found that 
the increased viewing area helps planning by giving a 
more complete, overall view than is possible with a nor- 
mal video terminal. The time I would have otherwise 
spent scrolling back and forth between sections of text 
was instead spent more productively. In short, it makes 
word processors far easier to use because the terminal dis- 
play does some of the work of "remembering" the ar- 
rangement of information. One side effect of having such 
a large screen in a serial video terminal is that it takes a 
lot of time to update; I would not consider using a data 
rate of less than 9600 bps (bits per second); 19,200 bps is 
preferable. (Item 2 of the Set-Up menu shown in table 1 
gives the data-rate setting, here labeled "baud rate"; you 
can choose from 10 common rates between 75 and 19,200 
bps.) 

After using the MX700 with my favorite word proces- 
sor for several months, going back to a standard terminal 
was a frustrating experience. Looking at a terminal that 
displayed only 24 lines of 80 columns was like wearing 
glasses with two thirds of one lens blocked and the other 
lens completely opaque. However, if you use the MX700 
with a word processor that requires Control keys as com- 
mands, you may be irritated by the fact that the MX700's 
Control keys don't repeat when held down. 

In this era of user friendliness, Quadram's MX700 
comes close to the state of the art. Its large display makes 
it easy to maintain an overall view of word-processing 
and spreadsheet projects and provides a powerful inter- 
face for humans to communicate with and control com- 
puters. ■ 

About the Author 

Curtis P. Feigel is a technical editor for BYTE. 



394 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



MICROHOUSE 
NEW'PRICES! 

We made business computing affordable. 




WORDPROCESSINC 

MICROPRO 

WORDSTAR $279 

MAILMERGE 149 

SPELLSTAR 149 

FINAL WORD 199 

FORCE II 

MATH* $89 

SORCIM 

SUPERWRITER $249 

SPELLCUARD 129 

VISICORP 

VISIWORD CALLI 

VISISPELL CALL1 

PERFECT SOFTWARE 

PERFECT WRITER $199 

PERFECT SPELLER 139 

SILILCON VALLEY 

WORD HANDLER $139 

LIST HANDLER 69 

UFETREE 
VOLKSWRITER $155 

T /MAKER 
T/MAKERIII $199 

LANGUAGES ^^ 

APPLESOFT COMPILER $129 

ALDS 99 

BASIC COMPILER 289 

BASIC INTERPRETER 259 

EDIT 80 89 

FORTRAN 80 COMPILER 149 

FORTRAN 80 COMPILER 549 

COBOL COMPILER 549 

COBOL COMPILER 529 

MACROASSEMBLER 199 

muLISP/muSTAR 149 

muLISP/muSTAR 189 

muMATH / ITIUSIMP 189 

SUPERSOFT 

ADA $189 

C COMPILER 159 

FORTRAN 239 

FORTH 129 

LISP 99 

RATFOR 69 

APPLE HARDWARE 

MICROSOFT 

MICROSOFT PREMIUM PACK $489 

Z80CARD 249 

MICROSOFT Z80 CARD/VIDEX VIDEOTERM 499 

MICROSOFT 16K RAM 74 

MOUNTAIN 
MULTII/O 178 

MM 

SUPERFAN 39 

RANA 

ELITE I $299 

CONTROLLER FOR ELITE I 99 

ELITE I PLUS 395 

ELITE II 465 

ELITE II PLUS 539 

ELITE III 599 

VIOEX 

ENHANCER II $129 

SOFTSWITCH 29 

VIDEOTERM 269 

FUNCTION STRIP 68 

VIDEOTERM /SOFTSWITCH 295 

VIDEOTERM /SOFTSWITCH /INVERSECHIP 299 

COMPUTERS 

IMS CALLI 

CALIFORNIA COMPUTER SYSTEM CALLI 

MORROW MICRODICISION CALLI 

MEDIA 

MAXELL 

5" SINGLE SIDED $31 

5" DOUBLE SIDED 48 

8' SINGLE SIDED 39 

8" DOUBLE SIDE 49 

MAXELLS ARE BOTH SINGLE AND DOUBLE 
DENSITY AND COME WITH A LIFETIME WARRANTY. 

ELEPHANT 

5 SSSD $22 

5'DSDD 30 



FINANCIAL /BUSINESS 

SORCIM 

SUPERCALC $189 

SUPERCALCII 219 

VISICORP 

VISICALC $179 

VISICALC APPLE HE 179 

VISICALC BUSINESS FORECASTING 89 

VISICALC ADVANCED CALLI 

VISISCHEDULE 228 

VISITREND/PLOT 228 

DESKTOP PLAN 179 

DESKTOP PLAN 228 

ASHTON TATE 
BOTTOM LINE STRATEGIST 279 

CONTINENTAL 

HOME ACCOUNTANT $59 

HOME ACCOUNTANT PLUS 109 

FILING, CATALOGING AND MAILING APPLE .... 69 

FCMIBM 99 

TAX ADVANTAGE 42 

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 169 

ACCOUNTS PAYABLE 169 

GENERAL LEDGER 169 

PAYROLL 169 

PROPERTY MANAGEMENT 459 

PERFECT SOFTWARE 

PERFECT CALC $139 

SUPERSOFT 

SCRATCHPAD $199 

EAGLE 

MONEY DECISIONS $99 

PEACHTREE 
ACCOUNTING SERIES CALLI 



PRINTERS, ETC. 

C. ITOH 

PROWRITER (P) $399 

PROWRITER(S) 579 

PROWRITER II (PI 689 

PROWRITER II (SI 739 

F-10(P) 1379 

F-10IS) 1379 

F-10 TRACTOR OPT 229 

GX-100P 250 

6 MONTHS WARRANTY. MICROHOUSE IS 
AN AUTHORIZED C. ITOH REPAIR CENTER. 

IDS 

MICROPRISM $679 

PRISM 80 /SPRINT 999 

PRISM 132 /Sprint 1279 

GRAPHICS OPTION 89 

SHEET FEEDER 139 

COLOR OPTION 339 

GEMINI 

GEMIN1 10 $399 

GEMIN1 15 529 

OUAORAM 

MICROFAZER16KP-P $159 

32KP-P 189 

64KP-P 239 

8KP-P 189 

128KP-P 349 

256K P-P 699 

MANY OTHERS AVAILABLE— CALL FOR PRICES 

NEC 

77-1 SRO $2499 

77-SO PRO 2499 

S5-10SRO 1595 

35-50 RO 2099 

35-50 SHEET FEEDER 989 

35-50 TRACTOR 239 

OKIDATA 

MICROLINE80 $359 

MICROLINE82A 439 

MICROLINE83A 679 

MICR0LINE84P 1159 

MICR0LINE92 549 

MICROLINE93 989 

TRACTOR FOR 80 & 82 239 

SMITH-CORONA 

TP-1 $599 

TRACTOR FOR TP-1 159 

INTERACTIVE STRUCTURES 

PKASSO $135 

PKASSO PRISM COLOR 155 

PRACTICAL PERIPHERALS 
MICROBUFFERII(P)32K 229 

ORANGE MICRO 
GRAPPLER PLUS $125 



DATABASE /GRAPHICS 

LOTUS 

1-2-3 CALLI 

MICROPRO 

INFOSTAR $279 

DATASTAR 165 

REPORTSTAR 219 

SUPERSORT 149 

ASHTON TATE 

CfBASEII/ZIP $489 

FOX & GELLER 

OUICKCODE $219 

DUTIL 68 

D GRAPH 219 

INNOVATIVE 

TIM III $359 

FAST GRAPHS 1 89 

NORTH AMERICAN 

THE ANSWER $229 

PERFECT SOFTWARE 

PERFECT FILER $199 

ISM 

MATHEMACIC $69 

CRAPHMAGIC 69 

MATHEMAGIC/GRAPHMAGIC 99 

SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY 

THE CREATOR FOR IBM 224 

THE CREATOR FOR APPLE 149 

VISICORP 

VISIDEX $179 

VISIFILE 228 

VISIPLOT 159 

VISILINK 184 



COMMUNICATIONS 

MICROSTUFF 

CROSSTALK $119 

VISICORP 

VISITERM $79 

HAYES 

SMARTMOOEM 214 

SMARTMODEM 1200 549 

MICROMODEM II 279 

MICROMODEM II W/TERMINAL 349 

SMARTMODEM /CROSSTALK 329 

SMARTMODEM 1200 /CROSSTALK 659 

NOVATION 

J-CAT $129 

SMARTCAT300 199 

SMARTCAT1200 489 



MONITORS 

AMDEK 

COLORI $329 

COLOR II 739 

COLOR III 429 

APPLE RGB INT 149 

VIDEO 300 149 

VIDEO 300 AMBER 169 

VIDEO 310 179 

VIDEO 310 AMBER 179 

COLOR IV 1099 

NEC 

12" GREEN 149 

12" COLOR 249 

12" GREEN HI RES 174 

12" RGB COLOR 859 



IBM HARDWARE 

OUADRAM 

0UADB0ARD64K $459 

OUADBOARD128K 599 

OUADBOARD 1 92L 699 

OUADBOARD 256K 779 

SERIAL ADAPTER 94 

PARALLER PRINTER INT 119 

64K MEMORY UPGRADE 129 

MICROSOFT 

64KRAMCARD 259 

1 28K RAMCARD 389 

1 92K RAMCARD 519 

256K RAMCARD 659 

TANDON 

SINGLE SIDED 195 

DOUBLE SIDED 249 



Call Toll-Free: 1-800-523-9511 

Circle 274 on inquiry card. 



In Pennsylvania: 1- 215-868-8219 

1444 Linden St./P.O. Box 499,Dept.201,Bethlehem, PA 18016 



^^F*i 


B 


O 










: your Apple or Franklin isn't giving you all the 
power you need, it's not rotten. It just needs to be 
juiced up. With a Starfire™ Winchester hard disk 
drive from Corona. 

It leaves Apple DOS in the dust. 

For starters, the Starfire gives you all the 
power inherent in a hard disk drive. Lightning speed 
(up to 10 times faster than a floppy), enormous 
storage capacity (5 and 10 megabytes), and 
superb data reliability. 

With none of the bottlenecks, headaches and 
hassles of floppy drives. 

But even better, it makes Apple DOS infinitely 
friendlier, faster and more powerful. 



A lot more slices from the pie. 

Our version of Apple DOS is so power- 
ful and friendly, it's like getting a whole new 
computer. You can work with files up to 400K. 
Boot into any program from the hard disk. And 
run programs with a single keystroke. 

We've added other features from the Corona 
PC, our own 16-bit desktop and personal computers. 
You can automatically selectively backup your vol- 
umes. Partition the disk and run up to 16 different 
operating systems, including Apple DOS, Pascal and 
CP/M. 1 

And depend on our DataGuard™ and Fail- 
Safe™ data protection systems for the disk reliability 
and data integrity you need. 



t'Mm 



■ ■ 



Your saving grace. 

And if you're running programs that 
use a lot of K's, you're still okay because 
we don't use any of your main memory. 

The Corona Starfire is software- 
compatible with industry-standard 
packages likeVisiCalc? 

DBMaster, 3 dBASE II 4 and many others. 

So if your Apple 
is being squeezed, 
juice it up with the Corona Starfire hard disk. 

For the name of your nearest Corona dealer, 
just call us toll-free at 800-621-6746. Or write 
Corona Data Systems, 31324 Via Colinas, Westlake 
Village, CA 91361. (213) 991-1144. 




FEEL THE POWER. 

Circle 114 on inquiry card. 

© Corona Data Systems 1963. 1: tm Digital Research. 2: tm Vlsicorp (needs 
Transporter from Omega Microwave). 3: tm Stoneware. 4: tm Ashton Tate 



The 8088 Connection 

Interfacing IBM PC BASIC 
to Machine-Language Programs 



Why would anyone bother with 
assembly language when BASIC is 
available? BASIC is a rich and flexi- 
ble language; however, it has its 
drawbacks. You may want to add 
assembler code to a BASIC program 
in order to perform a function that is 
not part of the standard BASIC 
library. Or, even more likely, you 
may need something done faster than 
is possible with interpreted BASIC. 
You may also want to experiment 
with the microprocessor instruction 
set. In this article, I'll describe a 
method of adding 8088 machine-lan- 
guage subroutines to BASIC on the 
IBM Personal Computer (PC). 

The technique involves five sub- 
tasks: creation and assembling of a 
source file, using the linker to create 
an executable (.EXE) file, converting 
the executable file to a memory-image 
file able to be loaded by the BASIC 
BLOAD command, bringing the file 
into protected memory, and testing 
and debugging the routine. 

8088 Coding 

To create a machine-language pro- 
gram, you'll need to master the in- 
struction set of the 8088, the pro- 



by Dan Rollins 

cessor that drives the IBM PC. The 
8088 is an exciting microprocessor. Its 
instruction set includes hardware 
multiply and divide (both 8- and 
16-bit) operations, sign-extension for 
arithmetic operations between 8- and 
16-bit operands, several memory- 
indexing modes, automatic loop- 
ing instructions, string-handling op 
codes, and the ability to work in con- 



Mastering the Instruc- 
tion set of the 8088 

can be difficult even 

for an experienced 

programmer. 

junction with other coprocessor chips 
such as the 8087 math chip. 

Branch and call instructions are all 
relative; you have to work hard to 
write a program that is not 
relocatable. And the 8088 can access 
as many as a million bytes of 
memory. But learning the 8088 can be 
difficult even for an experienced pro- 
grammer. The concept of memory 
segments and the abundance of ad- 



dressing modes and op codes are con- 
fusing. 

To learn the 8088, or its work-alike 
brother the 8086, 1 recommend study- 
ing Stephen Morse's The 8086 Primer 
(Hayden Book Company Inc., 1980). 
Morse, the chip's architect, gives 
clear explanations and offers insights 
not found elsewhere. Other necessary 
texts include The 8086 Book by 
Russell Rector and George Alexy 
(Osborne/McGraw-Hill, 1980) and 
the IBM PC Macro Assembler 
manual. The fully documented IBM 
BIOS (basic input/ output system) 
listing in the Technical Reference 
Manual will give you excellent ex- 
amples of real-life 8088 code for 
study. 

Once you have written an 8088 
program, you will need an assembler 
to translate it. IBM offers two assem- 
blers: The Macro Assembler requires 
96K bytes of memory. It supports 
macro definitions and data-structure 
definitions and gives verbose error 
messages. The smaller version, ASM, 
will assemble only short programs 
but works in 64K bytes of memory. It 
does not support macroinstructions 
or data structures and gives only a 



398 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



■ 



SAGE™ TECHNICAL BRIEFING 



You Can't Outrun Memories. 



I 



computer can go faster than its 
memory. 

Even the lightning-fast 68000 proces- 
sor can be slowed to a snail's pace by a 
sluggish main memory design. 

For that reason, we designed the 
memory for 16-bit SAGE computers to 
keep pace with the 68000. It's a close- 
coupled, straightforward design that 
lets the processor run full bore at 2 
million instructions a second. 

Anything less simply wouldn 't be 
state of the art. 

Simple Isn't Always 
Easy. 

To make a mem- 
ory simple is simple. 

But to make a 
simple memory fast 
is difficult. 

And to incorporate it into a 
computer that doesn't cost a fortune is 
next to impossible. That is, unless some 
highly-creative circuit solutions can be 
found. 

And that's precisely how the totally 
unique SAGE memory was born. 

One MBYTE Of 64KBYTE Devices. 

In keeping with the no-compromise 
spirit of SAGE memory design, we 



naturally use only 64K, dynamic 1 50- 
nanosecond memories. SAGE IV^com- 
puters can be equipped with a 
megabyte of this type of memory 

And you can specify as few as one 
or as many as four built-in Winchesters, 
plus floppy drive. 

What's more, thanks to its exclusive 
memory design, your SAGE computer 
can take data as fast as its floppy disk 




can dish it out. In fact, with 
no need for skewing or inter- 
leaving, the SAGE Computer actu- 
ally lets its floppy run as fast as 
Winchesters do on some machines. 

So when you select a computer for 
serious development or serious busi- 
ness, remember the importance of 
memory. 

For more information and the name 
of your nearest SAGE dealer, call us 
today. 



Sage Computer Technology Corpo- 
rate Office, 4905 Energy Way, Reno, 
Nevada 89502. Phone (702) 322-6868 
TWX: 9IO-395-6073/SAGE RNO 

Eastern United States 

Sage Computer Technology, 
1 5 New England Executive Park 
Suite 120, Burlington, MA 01803 
(617)229-6868 

In UK 

TDI LTD, 29 Alma Vale Road, 
Clifton. Bristol 8S8-2HL 
Tel: (0272) 742796 
Tx: 444 653 Advice G 

In Germany 
MM Computer, 
| GmbH, HallwangerStr. 
" 59, 8210 Prien 
'Tel: 08051/3074 
Tx:525 400mmco-d 



p-System standard, supporting Pascal. 
FORTRAN 77, BASC and 68000 Micro Assembler. 
CP/M-68K. Hyper-Forth, Modula 2 optional. 
SAGE and SAGE IV are trademarks of 
SAGE Computer Technology. 
© 1983 SAGE Computer Technology all rights 
reserved. 

Circle 358 on inquiry card. 



I 




■ 







l<1 



*m 



>z&y0 



Bid 



COMPUTER SUPPLIES 

FOR ALL MAKES & MODELS 



DISKETTES 



• MEMOREX • WABASH 



5% 

S/S D/D 

MIN. ORDER 50 



RIBBONS 



EPSON 
MX70/MX80 

EPSON 
MX 100 
MIN. ORDER 6 



$237 

$464 

$784 



CONTINUOUS FORMS 



CALL TOLL FREE 1 800-248-2418 

IN NY. STATE 212-967-3433/1700 

TERMS -VISA OR MC 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 

WORLDWIDE 

COMPUTER SUPPLIES 

159 MAIN ST., S.I.. N.Y. 10307 



Circle 447 on Inquiry card. 



Electronic 

Circuit 

Analysis 

• AC and DC analysis 

• Very fast, optimized machine language 

• Infinite circuits on multiple passes 

• Worst case, sensitivity analysis 

• Sweep component values 

• 64 Nodes, 127 branches 

• Compare circuits 

• Log or linear sweep 

• Full file handling 

r Full editing, error trapping 

• Frequency response, magnitude and phase 

• Complete manual with examples 

• CP/M $150.00 

• Now available for MSDOS (IBM PC) $150.00 

Tatum Labs 
P.O. Box 722 
Hawleyville, CT 06440 
(203) 426-2184 



Circle 475 on Inquiry card. 




Circle 179 on Inquiry card. 



number when it encounters an error. 

Here are some tips on coding 8088 
programs for the IBM Macro Assem- 
bler: Tell the assembler what seg- 
ments are active. Use the ASSUME 
pseudo-op to resolve ambiguity. 
Always specify the type of data and 
addresses to avoid ambiguity in in- 
structions. For example, "MUL [BX]" 
is ambiguous; it can mean "multiply 
the AX register with the word pointed 
to by the BX register" or "multiply the 
AL register with the byte at that ad- 
dress." The instruction "MUL byte 
ptr [BX]" is clear; it means "multiply 
the byte at the address pointed to by 
BX with AL, leaving the result in 
AX." 

Remember that labels refer to data 
and not addresses. For example, 
"ADD AX,MY_VARJABLE" means 
"add the 16-bit value of the data at 
the memory location specified by the 
label MY_VARIABLE (as offset 
from the DS segment register) to the 
AX register, leaving the result in AX." 
If you need to access the address of a 
variable, use the OFFSET operator, 
e.g., "MOV SI, offset MY_TABLE." 
Stick to one of the many methods 
provided by the assembler for speci- 
fying an indexed address to avoid 
confusion. 

When writing your assembly lan- 
guage, you will need a good program 
editor. It is possible to write source 
code with EDLIN, the primitive line 
editor that comes with PC-DOS and 
other disk operating systems, but this 
will make assembly programming 
even more frustrating than necessary. 
I recommend Volkswriter by Lifetree 
Software Inc. for both word process- 
ing and program editing. 

Special Considerations 

The IBM BASIC manual describes 
a rather complicated method of load- 
ing an assembled program into 
BASIC memory and saving it with 
BASIC'S BSAVE command. After 
some months of using this technique, 
I hit upon a simpler method: to create 
a file that I could load with BLOAD 
directly. This imposes requirements 
that you should keep in mind when 
writing a program for use with 
BASIC. A group of seven "header" 
bytes must precede the program (see 



listing 1). The BASIC BLOAD com- 
mand uses these bytes to identify a 
module on which BLOAD can be 
used and to give it a default load ad- 
dress. Also the programs must fit 
within one memory segment. Finally, 
the assembler END pseudo-op must 
specify the address of the first header 
byte. 

Linking the File 

The assembler creates an object 
(.OBJ) file that must be converted to 
an executable (.EXE) file in which all 
external and internal references are 
resolved. The DOS linker program 
performs this task. Start the linker as 
described in the DOS manual, speci- 
fying only the file to be linked. 

Because the file does not specify a 
stack segment, the linker will display 
"Warning: no stack segment" and in- 
dicate that an error occurred. This is 
exactly as expected — no cause for 
alarm. The .EXE files created by the 
linker contain a block of load and 
relocation data, which the DOS 
loader uses as it prepares to execute 
the program. 

The BASIC program loader 
(BLOAD) does not require this infor- 
mation because it is designed for use 
with binary-image programs. These 
.EXE files are loaded into memory as 
a continuous block of code and data 
and must reside in 64K bytes or less of 
memory. Fortunately, DOS provides 
EXE2BIN, a utility to convert the file 
from the .EXE to the .BIN (or .COM) 
format. 

The BASIC BLOAD command 
works only with programs in the non- 
relocatable format. Because my ex- 
ample .EXE file already contains the 
header bytes that BASIC needs, I can 
use this utility to create a module that 
can be loaded with BLOAD. Simply 
invoke EXE2BIN, specifying the name 
of the file that was just linked. BASIC 
will load the resulting .BIN file at the 
segment specified by the DEF SEG 
function (BASIC'S default segment) at 
the offset specified in the BLOAD 
command. 

Listing 2 shows a batch file that will 
assemble, link, convert, and test pro- 
grams. This file saves a lot of typing 
and assures that no step is missed. If 
the batch file is invoked with two 




TDK Floppy Disks. 
Invaluable security for irreplaceable information. 

Today, more and more companies are relying on convenient floppy disks to record, 
store and safeguard information. Irreplaceable information which is vital to their business 
interests. It is precisely the value placed on this information that makes the floppy disk an 
invaluable tool for storage and security. And this is where TDK floppy disks become invalu- 
able to you. TDK floppy disks are guaranteed 100% error-free at the time of manufacture 
and certified for double-density encoding. Furthermore, each track of every TDK floppy 

disk is tested to exceed industry standards ... including 
those of IBM, Shugart, ANSI, ECMA, ISO and JIS. Once you 
insert a quality TDK floppy disk into your computer system, 
you're guaranteed highly reliable, ultra smooth perform- 
ance. This is due to TDK's proprietary disk-burnishing tech- 
nique that provides optimum head-to-disk contact. 

TDK floppy disks are available in 5V4and 8-inch sizes in 
the most popular formats. Each disk comes in its own pro- 
tective Tyvek-type envelope. For a copy of our brochure, 
"Some Straight Talk About Floppy Disks," write to: TDK Elec- 
tronics Corp., Computer Products Marketing Dept., 12 Harbor 
Park Drive, Port Washington, NY 1 1050, or call 516-625-0100. 





M2DX 



©1 982 TDK Electronics Corp. 
Circle 400 on inquiry card. 



OTDK 

The heart of your system. 



BYTE July 1983 401 



Listing 1: Simple assembly-language programs can be loaded directly with the BASIC 
BLOAD command. This example demonstrates how a program must be preceded by a 
group of seven header bytes and must end with the END pseudo-op in order to be used 
with BLOAD. 



1 






page i 


132 


2 






title UPSHIFT - BASIC USR routine Dan Rollins 


3 






COM* 


I * This routine changes all lowercase characters 


4 








in a BASIC string to UPPERCASE. 


5 
i 
7 








It is called fro* BASIC via! 








UPCASEt = USRn(L0VCASEt) 


8 








where*. 


1 








LOtCASEJ is a string variable nate or a 


10 
11 
12 








string expression. 








All characters in loucaset that were between 


13 








'a' and 'i' will be converted to 'A' to T. 


14 








t 


15 


OOOO 




cses segment 


14 
17 
IS 






HUM 


CSIcsegi DSInothing 






t 

idefine the file header so that the BASIC 


1? 






i BLOAD file loader will know what to do. 


20 


0000 




header! 




21 


0000 


FB 


* 


0FDH .indicate BLOAD file 


22 


0001 


OOOO 


dv 


isegaent— BASIC will use default 


23 


0003 


0000 


dv 


i off set— specif s in BLOAD coeaand 


24 
25 
24 


0005 


0023 


dw 


rln.len i length of the routine 


0007 




upshift proc 


far ifar proc insures inlersegKnt RETurn 


27 


0007 


3C 03 


C1P 


ali3 iwst be string arguvnt 


a 


000? 


75 IE 


Jne 


exit i exit if not 


2? 


0OOB 


33 C? 


>;or 


cxicx ipre-set the length to 


30 








iBX => 3-oate descriptor bloct 


31 


O0OD 


8B DA 


■OV 


bxidx iuse base register for mora wort 


32 


0OOF 


8A OF 


■ov 


cl»[bx] igel the length 


33 


0011 


80F?00 


C»P 


cliO iis it a null string? 


34 


0014 


74 13 


Je 


exit t wesi exit, elsei gel ptr to characters 


35 

34 
37 


0014 


8B 77 01 


tov 


siiCbxtll i SI => first character of string 


= 




char eau 


bale ptr Csi] ire-define a useful opcode 


33 


001? 




each-char! 




3? 


001? 


80 3C41 


tv 


chari'a' ibelow 'a' ? 


40 


001C 


72 08 


Jt> 


no-change i sesi leave it alone 


41 


001E 


80 3C7A 


CtP 


chari'r' iabove 'z'» 


42 
43 
44 


0021 


77 03 


Ja 


no.change i ski leave it 


0023 


80 24 5F 


and 


charilOlllllB itast the lowercase bit 


45 


0024 




no_changet 




44 


0024 


44 


inc 


si ipoint to next character 


47 


0027 


E2 FO 


loop 


each-char idee CX and loop till done 


48 


002? 




exit! 




4? 


002? 


B 


ret 


i long RET to BASIC 


50 


002A 




upshift endp 




51 


= 0023 


rtn.len eou 


$ - upshift ilength of routine fx header 


52 


002A 




cseS ends 




53 






end 


header ineeded for .BIN file 



Listing 2: A batch file that aids in 
assembling, linking, conversion, and 
testing of programs. 



REH « ALB. BAT — 

REH Use to assenblei linKf convert to 

REN binary iiiaSet and test an .ASH file 

REH that is to be interfaced with BASIC 

REH 

REH reauires 1 arsueent ! filename 

REH optional argument ! list file 

tiftit) 

REH 

b: 

Alas* ZlfiZ2> 

AtlinK XI i 
A!exe2bin II 
A'basic test 
REH «ALB end of JCL 



parameters ($ALB QPRINT,CON:), 
the assembler will generate a listing. 
Otherwise, the listing file will default 
to NUL (null). 

The BASIC Interface 

Once the file is in BLOAD format, 
it must be loaded into memory at an 
address protected from BASIC. In a 
64K-byte IBM, this means that you 
must clear some memory using the 
BASIC CLEAR instruction as shown 
in listing 3. You can determine the 
amount to clear by looking at the 
screen when BASIC first starts up. 



Subtract the amount of memory used 
by the 8088 subroutine from the 
amount of available memory 
displayed. My 64K-byte machine 
displays "38907 BYTES FREE". To in- 
terface the UPSHIFT routine (listing 
1), which is 35 bytes long, you could 
have line 10 of listing 3 CLEAR 
38871. Then you would set the vari- 
able UPSHIFT. ADDR to that 
number. If you are running with 
more than 64K bytes of RAM (ran- 
dom-access, read/write memory), 
you will not need to clear any 
memory. In that case, use the DEF 
SEG function to point to an area out- 
side of BASIC'S domain and define 
UPSHIFT.ADDR as an offset within 
that segment. For example: 

10 DEFSEG = &H1700 
•UPSHIFT.ADDR =0 

specifies that the routine be loaded at 
a point in the top 4K bytes of a 
96K-byte IBM PC. 

With the BLOAD command the 
programs could also be loaded into 
the BASIC string variable, the 
elements of an integer array, or an 
unused input buffer. The VARPTR 
function can be used to determine the 
offset for the BLOAD. 

Debugging 

Placing an extra byte, OCC hex- 
adecimal (INT 3), temporarily at the 
start of executable code is a handy aid 
to debugging the 8088 program when 
used in conjunction with DEBUG, the 
IBM machine-language monitor. To 
debug a program, write a BASIC test 
program (listing 4) then type DEBUG 
BASIC.COM and use DEBUG's G 
command to execute BASIC. Run the 
BASIC testing program to load and 
invoke your 8088 subroutine. When 
control is passed to the routine, the 
first byte will act as a DEBUG break- 
point. You'll be able to Unassemble, 
Dump, and Trace (single-step 
through) the subroutine. 

Change the INT 3 to a NOP (90 
hexadecimal) with the E (edit) com- 
mand. As you trace the execution, 
watch to make certain that the 
parameters are being used in the right 
order and that the stack is cleared and 
the segment registers are restored 



402 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 




The Micromint MPX-1B Microcomputer System 



As featured on the cover of "BYTE" magazine, November 1982. 

Also featured in Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar, November, December 1982 & January 1983. 



These are all me tools you'll need 

to build the world's most powerful 

single board microcomputer. 



The Micromint MPXf6. Put one together tonight. 



Once assembled, the most useful tool will be your own 
imagination. The possibilities are limitless. Micromint will 
help you tailor the MPX-16 system to your particular needs 
and budget. Purchase the MPX-16 as a bare pc board, as 
a semi-kit with all the IC sockets, I/O connectors and 
discreet components wave soldered to the pc board, 
or as an assembled and tested unit. i 

• Directly boots CP/M-86 or MS-DOS* 

• Runs all CP/M-86 or MS-DOS * applications d 

programs. dm 

On board features. 

• IBM PC bus compatible with 9 expansion slots. 

• Intel 8088 16-bit microprocessor. 

• Optional Intel 8087 math coprocessor, 

• 256K bytes on board memory. 

• Up to one megabyte of system memory. 

• Up to 64K bytes of system ROM/EPROM, 

• Two RS-232C serial I/O ports. 

• Three parallel I/O ports. 

• Floppy disk controller for 51/4" or 8" single or 
double density disk drives. 

• Four independent DMA channels. 

• Sixteen levels of vectored interrupts. 

•Available Soon. 

Circle 265 on inquiry card. 

Micromint 

The System with the Winning Combination. 

IBM PC is a trademark of International Business Machines. Inc ,'CP M-86 is a trademark of Digital Research. Inc., 




To get the MPX-16 up and running only requires one disk 
drive, power supply and serial terminal. 



:■<■■ 




■ MPX-16 single board computer assembled, tested 
and burned in with 64K bytes of RAM, CP/M-86 
f or MS-DOS operating system * $1,895.00 

* • MPX-16 with 256K bytes of RAM $2,135.00 

• MPX-16 Semi-Kit (wave soldered pc board) less IC's $595.00 

• Complete kit of IC's burned in and tested with 64K 

bytes of RAM $595.00 

With 256K bytes of RAM $800.00 

• MPX-16 Unpopulated (bare) pc board, silk screened 

and solder masked $300.00 

• CP/M-86 Operating System on 51/4" or 8" diskette. . $200.00 
•, • MPX-16 Switching Power Supply including 

oower supply harness $300.00 

: • MPX-16 Technical Reference and User's Manual $50.00 
I Call for current pricing on serial terminals, floppy disk 
*§ drives, metal enclosures, hard disk systems, etc. 




To Order: Call Toll Free 

1-800-645-3479 

IB N.Y. 1-516-374-6793 



MICROMINT INC. 

561 Willow Avenue 
Cedarhurst, NY 11516 



MPX-16 




DISK DRIVES 

(For PC, Mod I &III) 

TANDON TM100-1 $1 89 

TANDON TM1 00-2 $249 

TAN DON TM 1 00-4 $339 

Case and PS $ 45 

PC EXPANSIONS 

MAYNARD 

DISK CONTROLLER $1 55 

PPadd$50 SPadd$70 

QUADRAM 

Four Function 256K capacity 

with 64Kinstalled $289 

AST 

ComboPlus: 

64K+SPC+SuperDrive 

+SuperSpool $269 

MegaPlus: 
64K+SC+SuperDrive 

+SuperSpool * $269 

I/O plus(Sq $114 

User installed. 

2nd S or P or game , $ 35 

VLM Computer Electronics 

10 Park Place • Morristown, NJ 07960 
(201 ) 267-3268 Visa, MC, Check or COD. 



Circle 435 on Inquiry card. 



Bargain 
Boards" 

Best prices around on 
I l ompuPro 



boards. 




Include $6.00 per board for shipping and handling. 

6331 Fairmount Ave. #701 
El Cerrito, Ca. 94530 
(415) 524-8352 



IEEE-488 TO TRS-80* INTERFACE 

Everything needed to add powerful 
BASIC GPIB-488 controller capability to 
TRS-80 Model 1, 3 or 4, Level 2 or DOS 
with a minimum of 16K. 



L488B0C 
For Model 3 or 4 
Operation 488-SOB 

For Model 1 




Operation 



JSL 



$375 



Model 488-80B or 488-80C Price: 

+ shipping, insurance & tax 
WHEN ORDERING SPECIFY DISK OR TAPE 

SCIENTIFIC ENGINEERING 
LABORATORIES 

11 Neil Drive • Old Bethpage, NY 11804 
Telephone: (516) 694-3370 

* Trademark of Tandy Corp. 
There is no affiliation between Scientific 
Engineering Laboratories and Tandy Corp. or 
Radio Shack. 



Listing 3: Program to test the UPSHIFT program in listing 1. 

'** UPTEST.BAS Dan Rollins 12/28/82 

1 '« tests the UPSHIFT USR routine 

2 '** 

10 CLEAR. 30000 tUPSHIFT.ADDR=30000 

20 BLOAD'btupshift.bin'.UPSHIFT.ADDR 

30 DEF USR0=UPSHIFT.ADDR 

40 CLS 

50 INPUT "enter so«e lowercase characters' !A$ 

60 PRINT USR0<A$> 

70 A*="This pro3ra» line is lowercase." 

80 UU*=USR0< At > 

90 PRINT !LIST 'M show that line 70 has been altered 



Listing 4: A BASIC test program to load and invoke UPSHIFT. 



1 '** QPTEST.BAS Dan Rollins 12/ 

3 '« Tests the (PRINT 8088 subroutine 

4 'tt and compares time with BASIC. 

5 '»* 

10 CLEAR. 30000 '** 

20 QPRINT=30000 '** 

30 BL0AD"B!QPRINT. BIN" .QPRINT '** 
40 T1«=TIHE* '** 

50 G0SUB 1000 '** 

60 CLSt PRINT TIME* {PRINT Tl* '** 
70 END 

990 '** subroutine fills the screen. 

991 '** to conpare BASIC'S speed. 

992 '** 

1000 CLf«=l !CLS tKEY OFF 
1010 FOR JX=32 TO 100 
1020 A*=STRING*(80»J7.) 
1030 FOR R0UZ=1 TO 24 
1040 CALL QPRINT(At.R0«X.CLM7. ) 
1050 'LOCATE R0W7..CLMX IPRINT Mi 
1060 NEXT 
1070 NEXT 
1080 RETURN 



upon exit. Incidentally, you may 
trace execution right into ROM (read- 
only memory) BASIC and glean some 
valuable information as to how 
BASIC operates. 

User Service Routines 

Once a program has been loaded, it 
may be invoked by either a User Ser- 
vice Routine (USR) function or a call 
statement. BASIC treats the USR 
function just like an ASC (string ex- 
pression), SIN (numeric expression), 
or any other one-argument function. 
It evaluates the expression between 
the parentheses and then takes the 
indicated action. The function gives 
the programmer some flexibility in 
how the routine is invoked. For ex- 
ample: 

PRINT USR0(A$) 

LSET B$=USR0 (A$) 

B$=MID$(USR0(A$),12,2) 

A$=USR0(LAST.NAME$ + ", " 
+ FIRST.NAMES) 



!0/8! 



protect mesory above 30000 
define load, call address 
load routine into me»or« 
get starting tine 
test the routine 
compare start & end tises 

Use line 1050 



IF USR0(INPUT$(1)) 
= "Y'THEN . . . 

are all valid ways to invoke the UP- 
SHIFT function. The drawback of us- 
ing the USR function is that only one 
value may be passed to the 8088 sub- 
routine. 

Before BASIC hands control to 
your code, it places the address of the 
evaluated argument in the DX register 
and a variable type-code in the AL 
register. Listing 1 shows how to 
manipulate a value passed to the USR 
subroutine. Notice in line 27 that the 
AL register is compared to 3, the 
type-code for string-variable argu- 
ments. If the variable is not a string, 
then the routine is exited with no ac- 
tion taken. 

When UPSHIFT is sure it's working 
with a string, it must determine the 
string's length and location. Line 31 
places the value in DX into the base 
register BX and uses the parameter as 
a pointer to a string descriptor block. 
The first byte of this descriptor block 



Circle 314 on Inquiry card. 






ECONOMICALLY 

, = = ivTOGET Hfc 
SECURELY 




mmmm 










Model #001 in English Oak 
with IBM Personal Computer 
and Printer. 




DEC Rainbow 100 in 
Model «Valnut 



Victor 9000 in >*& 
Model #001 in Almond 




* LI S3 in 

Model #002 in Natural Oak 




SEClRTTi': The Compucart is the first computer wrksuitiojSfefs 
provide security tor both the hardware and software. Simply return 
the keyboard to th( losedpositio i fldowiith 

double walled tati.' 

ERGONOMICS: T\teteA-<- ., ti e 

display are at i suit tl i ch u The 

user simply places the work directly behind the keyboard and in front 

of the display in the norma! line of sight virtually eliminating 

unnecessary reach ami head/neck movement. Even the pitch of the 
work is adjustable, With the Compucart you need not compromise 
vour comfort. 



MOBILITY: Since the Compucart is on four twin wheel casters, 
you may move the computer/terminal from place to place to 
■ ' • vare With 

impact (requires [.I oi e) th •■ . I fits into 
am exit • i< ' ■•• ;\outouset! . iter in 

places that you thought just didn't have the room. 

MORE INFORMATION: Give us a call toll free at 8W-237- l W;>4 

ir you We 
have the only computer workstation that will keep it all secure!; 

together for you. . : ; "-* ' ! ■" '*■"' '- ' : :' 

Circle 88 on inquiry card. 




.0. Box 2095. Tampa, FL 33601-2095 



STACK AFTER CALL QPRINTt VAR$, ROW%, CLM%) 
RETURN ADDRESS OFFSET 
RETURN ADDRESS SEGMENT 
CLM% ARGUMENT ADDRESS 
ROW% ARGUMENT ADDRESS 
VAR$ DESCRIPTOR ADDRESS 







SP 










SP+2 














SP+4 — ^ 






CLM% DATA (WORD) 














SP + 6— > 






ROW% DATA (WORD) 
















SP+8 — ^ 




VAR$ LENGTH (BYTE) 


















VAR$ ADDRESS 1 


f 
















L-> 






... 




VAR$ DATA (BYTES) 



Figure 1: A stack model showing how BASIC passes 2-byte addresses to a called 
routine. 



defines the length of the string as be- 
tween and 255 inclusive. If the value 
is (a null string was passed as the 
argument), the routine is aborted and 
no action is taken. Otherwise this 
length is placed in the CX register and 
used as a counter. The second and 
third bytes of the string descriptor 
block identify the location of the 
characters of the string data. Line 35 
points SI, an index register, at the 
first character of the string. The loop 
beginning at line 38 and ending at line 
47 checks each character to see if it is 
lowercase and masks the lowercase 
bit if so. 

Because line 26 defined UPSHIFT 
as a FAR procedure, the RET (return) 
at line 49 has been assembled as an in- 
f tersegment return, as required by 
BASIC. Notice that UPSHIFT makes 
no effort to save and restore the 
registers it uses. BASIC only gets con- 
fused when the routine alters any of 
the segment registers or the stack 
pointer. 

Listing 3 illustrates an interesting 
facet of the BASIC /8088 connection. 
When a machine-code subroutine 
alters a BASIC string, it may alter 
program text. If the string is a literal 
in a program line, the string descrip- 
tor block will point to that program 
line. The same is true for strings that 
have been read from DATA lines. If 
such an alteration occurs and you 
later save the BASIC program, the 
changes will be permanent. 

The CALL Statement 

The CALL statement is less flexible 



in the way it may be invoked but will 
pass more than one argument to an 
8088 subroutine. It also may be used 
to return more than one value to the 
calling BASIC program. 

Appendix C of the BASIC manual 
goes into some detail as to how to ac- 
cess an argument passed to a called 
routine (figure 1). BASIC passes a 
2-byte address to the routine for each 
variable in the argument list. BASIC 
pushes these addresses onto the stack 
in the order in which they occur in the 
CALL statement. The address of the 
last variable in the list will be closest 
to the stack pointer when the routine 
takes control. 

After BASIC pushes these ad- 
dresses on the stack, it makes a FAR 
call to the offset (within the currently 
defined segment) specified in the 
CALL command. Because a FAR call 
saves both the CS (code segment) and 
IP (instruction pointer) register values 
on the stack, the argument addresses 
will be offset from the SP (stack 
pointer) by exactly 4 bytes. 

Page C-ll of the BASIC manual 
gives a formula for calculating the 
locations, of the argument addresses. 
The formula assumes that you will 
first push BP (base pointer) onto the 
stack, thereby making the closest 
argument address 6 bytes away from 
the stack pointer. The argument ad- 
dresses may then be accessed as 
pointers to the actual data by deter- 
mining their position in the stack and 
using BP as an index register to set the 
address into BX. If the variable is 
numeric, BX points to the numeric 



data. If the variable is a string, then 
BX points to the string descriptor 
block, and the data there will point to 
the actual characters of the string. 

After diligent research and experi- 
mentation, I could find no reason to 
push BP before using it to reference 
the parameters. The manual clearly 
states that only segment registers 
need to be saved. You can use other 
methods to access the arguments. The 
routine could, for example, just move 
the addresses from the stack into the 
available registers through the POP 
function — as long as the return ad- 
dress (the top 4 bytes on the stack) is 
saved, then restored upon exit. 

Quick PRINT 

IBM PC BASIC is disappointingly 
slow. It is obvious that much of the 
code is a direct translation from an 
8080 version of Microsoft BASIC. 
Perhaps the most distressing point is 
the sluggish PRINT command. It 
takes nearly 4 seconds to fill the 80 by 
25 screen with characters. 

Mother Necessity prompted me to 
write an 8088 subroutine to shorten 
the delay. The results were astound- 
ing. QPRINT (in listing 5) will 
display an 80-character line in the 
blink of an eye and fill the screen in 
one-tenth the time required by 
BASIC. The program avoids the 
character-by-character processing 
that typifies the BASIC PRINT com- 
mand. It displays the entire string in a 
tight loop. Also, because QPRINT ig- 
nores the attribute byte that normally 
accompanies a printed character, it 
makes half as many screen memory 
accesses. Functionally, QPRINT 
combines the LOCATE command 
with PRINT, thereby saving more 
BASIC overhead. 

A call to QPRINT displays char- 
acters of an argument string starting 
at the horizontal and vertical screen 
coordinates specified in two integer 
arguments. It does not update the 
cursor position or specify any color 
for the characters printed. The char- 
acters take on the color, blink, and 
underline attributes of whatever char- 
acters were previously there. If a 
string will not fit on one screen line, it 
will wrap around to the next. 

The QPRINT routine also includes 



406 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Frustration 
Insurance. 

The Assembly Language Programming Series from Osborne/McGraw-Hill. 











1) 6502 Assembly Language Programming 
Leventhal Order #27-6 $18.95 

"The book that will probably get the 
reputation as being the 6502 Bible!' 

INTERFACE AGE 



2) 6502 Assembly Language Subroutines 
Leventhal, Saville Order #59-4 $17.95 

Over 50 ready-to-use subroutines. 





J 




-L 



6) 68000 Assembly Language Programming 
Leventhal Order #62-4 $18.95 
Covers 68000 assembly language program- 
ming in the explicit detail needed to tap the 
full potential of this highly evolved 
microprocessor. 




7) Z80 6 Assembly Language Programming 
Leventhal Order #21-7 $17.95 

"There may never be a better book on the 
Z80 assembler than this one . . !' 

CREATIVE COMPUTING 



Before you hit the 
Frustration Key, reach for 
an Osborne/McGraw-Hill 
book. 




3) Assembly Language Programming for 

the Apple II. 

Mottola Order #51-9 $15.95 

Run programs hundreds of times faster 
and use less memory space than with 
programs written in BASIC. 



4) 6809 Assembly Language Programming 
Leventhal Order #35-7 $18.95 

"Leventhal appears to have a formula for 
producing programming manuals. If so, ifs 
a good formula ... he has produced 
another clear and thorough manual for the 
serious programmer!' 

AMERICAN MATHEMATICAL MONTHLY 



5) 6800 Assembly Language Programming 
Leventhal Order #12-8 $18.95 

A complete reference to the 6800 instruc- 
tion set and programming techniques. 




8) Z80 " Assembly Language Subroutines 
Leventhal, Saville Order #91-8 $18.95 

(Available 4/83) 

Over 50 useful subroutines to save you 

valuable programming time. 



Mm 



9) Z8000 ' Assembly Language Programming 10) 8080A/8085 Assembly Language 



Leventhal, Osborne, Collins 

Drder #36-5 S19.99 
An excellent source reference for this 
powerful, 16-bit device. Filled with 
trouble-shooting hints and sample 
problems to guide the user to mastery of 
this "super chip!' 



Programming 

Leventhal Order #10-1 $18. 95 

". . .an excellent encyclopedia of assembly 

language programming'.' BYTE 



Name_ 



_Please send me a free catalog. 



Dept C-l 



Address- 
City 



Stale. 



-Zip. 



11) The 8086 Book 

Rector, Alexy Order #29-2 $16.99 

"... far superior to any other book about 
the 8086" DR. DOBBS JOURNAL 



Z80andZ8000 

are registered trademarks of Zilog Inc. 

©1983 Osborne/McGraw-Hill 



By phone, call TOLL FREE: 800-227-2895. In California, 
call 800-772-4077. VISA and MasterCard accepted. 
By Mail, complete the coupon below and mail to Osborne/ 
McGraw-Hill, 2600 Tenth Street, Berkeley, CA 94710. 
All orders must be pre-paid. Check, money order, VISA 
and MasterCard accepted. Add shipping fees per item: 
$0.75 4th Class, $1.50 UPS, $3.00 1st class/UPS Blue 
Label. California residents, add local tax. 
Allow 4-6 weeks for delivery. Prices subject to change 
without notice. 



Indicate method of payment:. 

VISA/Exp. date 

Card 8 



_Check/Money Order 

MasterCard/Exp date_ 



I Signature. 

j 21! 
I 

r 



ORDER # 



PRICE 



ef* 



Osborne/McGraw-Hill 



m 



Tax 



Osborne/McGraw-Hill 

2600 Tenth Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 . 



Shipping 



TOTAL 



Circle 308 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 407 



HOW TO REPAIR 
THE APPLE* 



A comprehensive guide to repair 
your Apple II" or Apple II plus" 
computer. 

With repair rates soaring and out- 
rageous repair bills being charged 
for even simple repairs, THIS 
GUIDE CAN SAVE YOU MONEY! 

ONLY $39.95 



DATA-LINE (602) 820-0082 
2961 S. LAS PALMAS 
MESA, ARIZONA 85202 

"Trademark of 
APPLE COMPUTER INC. 



Circle 128 on Inquiry card. 



A Spooler that 
will Spoil You 

Addmaster Paper Tape Handler 
with Big New 7W Reels 




Optional serial interfaces for RS232C or TTY 
or parallel interface/TTL. X-on/X-off 
capability, bi-directional reading and slew, 
reads 150 CPS, rewinds 300 CPS. Stops on 
character, contains power supply and 
Addmaster Model 601 paper tape reader. 
Sensibly priced Addmaster Corporation, 
416 Junipero Serra Drive, San Gabriel, CA 
91776. (213) 285-1121. 



Circle 7 on Inquiry card. 






lOifi DISKETTES 



5%" Diskette 1D 

Single Side 

Double Density 

$29»o 

Soft* Box of 10 



5'/4" Diskette 2D 

Double Side 
Double Density 

»39»° 
Soft* Box of 10 



* Add '1.75 for Plastic Library Case 
8" and other brands also available. 



iggjBS COD ACCEPTED 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 




CALL TOLL FREE 
800-848-1101 

In N.Y.S. (716) 631-3925 
BETSY BYTES Division 

BB International, Inc. 
P.O. Box 564 
Buffalo, NY. 14221 



TERMS: Prepaid orders receive free ship- 
ping within continental U.S.A. Add 3% ($2.00 
minimum) shipping and handling charge on 
all COD and credit card orders. N.Y. res. add 
7% tax. 



the logic for determining which type 
of display card is being used (color or 
monochrome). The row and column 
arguments are correct for either 40- 
or 80-column displays. 

The comments in listing 5 explain 
the inner workings of the program. 



However, two points need clarifica- 
tion. Lines 27 to 34 define a segment 
that is outside of the program seg- 
ment. No code is generated for this 
definition; it is used only to set up the 
labels used in lines 68, 71, 75, and 82. 
This does not violate EXE2BIN's 



Listing 5: This streamlined output routine displays strings on the video monitor 10 
times faster than BASIC. 



Circle 48 on Inquiry card. 



page 1 132 

Lille (FRUIT - 8088 routine CALLed frot BASIC 



Baa Rollins 



0000 
0010 
0010 

004A 
0O4A 
00&3 

0063 

0043 

0000 



coetenl t This routine prints 3 siring to the video display si 
10 liies the speed of BASIC. Vorts for color or 
tonochrote in 80 x 40 eolutn TEXT todes (no rarities). 
Characters are displayed with the existing colon 
blinti and underline attributes. 

Called fro* BASIC via! 

CALL QPRIimVARtiROIRiCLia) 

tfctrti 

OJff is m integer variable nate (1-80) 
Rttff is an integer variable nate (1-25) 
VARI is a sirins" variable nate. 

VARt is displayed beginning at position CUB of line 
ROW. If loo longi it will trap around to 
the next line. 

note: Color card pases 1-7 lay be accessed by selling 

ROW above 25. 
t 

bios.dala segtenl at 40H 'set up labels to deleriine 

org 10H i color or tonochrote card 
ewip.flag label yard 

org 4AH i 40 x 80 colutn display 
crLclts label wrd 

org 63K 
adx-6845 label word i points to video card ports 
bios-daU ends 



cseg 



segment 

assute CS'cseg) BS!nothing> ESinolhing 



Define the file header so that the BASIC 

BUMS file loader will Know uhal to do. 

— these bytes are not executed — 



MM 


header t 






0000 FD 


d> 


OFDH 


indicate BL0A8 file 


0001 OOOO 


<Jy 





segaenl— BASIC will use default 


0003 OOOO 


d-j 





offset—specify in BL0AB cottand 


0005 0042 


* 
page 


rln.les 


length of the routine 


0007 


sprint proc 


far 




0007 06 


push 


es 


itust save fx BASIC 


0008 88 EC 


tov 


OPlSP 


'point to argutents on start 


0OOA 8B5E06 


tov 


bx.Cbpt&J 'gel addr of CUtt storage 


0000 88 3F 


«ov 


di-Cbx] 


i gel the colutn value 


00OF 4F 


dec 


di 


i adjust fx LOCATE fxtat 


0010 SB 5E 09 


tov 


bxiCtartei 'Set addr of R0IR storage 


0013 88 07 


tov 


3X»tbx] 


i get the screen line value 


0015 48 


dec 


ax 


i adjust fx LOCATE fxtat 


0016 8B 5E OA 


tov 


bxiCbp+10] 'get Plr to siring descriptor 


0019 32 ED 


xor 


cbich 


i zero the high byte 


001B 8ft OF 


tov 


cl.tbx] 


iget length of string 


001D 80 F? 00 


CtP 


cl.O 


"null string 7 


0020 74 32 


Je 


exit 


i if sot do nothing. Elsei 


0022 88 77 01 


tov 


siitbx+1] ! SI => lsl character of VARt 


0025 BB R 


i 

tov 


bxibios-dala iget ready to delertine card type 


0028 8E C3 


tov 


esibx 


i and nutber of colutns 



Listing 5 continued on page 410 




DRls 



' 



i Whitesmiths, Ltd* Part 
bur Software Straf 



PASCA C COM 



A LA CAR 



Selecting software is really a game of 
strategy: positioning the right product 
at the right time for the most effective 
results. 

At Whitesmiths, Ltd., our full line of 
software products is designed to do just 
that and more. Our time-tested compil- 
ers are available for five architectures, 
compilete with Pascal translators and 
cross-support for a wide range of envi- 
ronments. From the MC68000, to the 
IBM PC, to the DEC Professional, our 
compilers and cross compilers cut soft- 
ware development time and reduce 
dependence on operating systems and 
instruction sets. 

Idris, our exclusive operating system, 
is powerful, small and extremely porta- 
ble. Written almost entirely in C, it runs 
where other operating systems can't even 
fit -on an MC68000 with no memory 



management hardware, for example, or 
on a bank-switched 8080 or Z80. And 
it outperforms UNIX on comparable 
systems -an MC68000 with memory 
management hardware, for instance, or 
any PDP-11 or LSI-11. It even makes good 
use of a VAX, so you know you won t 
outgrow it! 

In addition, our full line of Software 
A La Carte lets you select just the pieces 
you need to tailor our products for your 
unusual requirements. From portable 
libraries to special purpose tools, all 
A La Carte items are tested, easy to use, 
and very affordable. 

To make things even sim- 
pler, Whitesmiths, Ltd. has 
introduced a new market- 
ing tool: the Authorization 
Seal. Instead of hassling with 
complex license agreements 




and other legal stumbling blocks, you 
simply affix a serially numbered Auth- 
orization Seal, issued with each sale, to 
anv machine that retains a copy of our 
software. End of hassle. All our customers 
-end-users, OEMs, and sublicensors- 
benefit from the elimination of multi- 
tier licensing agreements and detailed 
record keeping. 

Compilers, Idris, Software A La Carte, 
and the Authorization Seal: together they 
can position you for today's competitive 
market -and tomorrow's. Before you 
make vour next move, call or write to 
Whitesmiths, Ltd. today. We'll 
be glad to help you play to win. 

Whitesmiths, Ltd., 
97 Lowell Road, Concord, 
MA 01742, (617)369-8499 
TLX 951708 software cncm. 



WHtesmiths, Ltd. 

Software Craftsmen 



UNIX is a trademark i>f Bell Lahoraiones, DEC Professional, VAX, PDP-11 and LSI-11 are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation: IBM PC is a trademark of International Business Machine Corporation 
Distributors Australia, Fawnray Ply Lid . P.OB. 224, Hurstville. NSW 2220 (612) '570-6100: Japan, Advanced Data ControlsCorp , Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo {03) 263-0383; United Kingdom, Kea! Time Systems. Newca: 



Circle 442 on Inquiry card. 



nTvne 0632 733131 



BYTE July 1983 409 



Listing 5 continued: 



R T L 

Relocatable ^ 
Threaded 9 ■*© 

Language 

RTL is a new language which retains the 
speed and extensibility of Forth but adds many 
additional advantages as a result of its more 
structured dictionary. Names, code, and vari- 
ables are all stored in separate areas for easy 
generation of headerless, romable code. All 
code is relocatable. RTL supports local vari- 
ables, multitasking, redirected I/O. and even 
allows definitions to be changed retroactively. 
All source code is included. Versions are cur- 
rently available or under development for 
68000, 6809, 8080, 280, 8086, 8088, and 
6502. 

RTL Programming Aids 

/ 0844 Deerwood SE 

Lowell, Ml 4933 1 

(616)897-5672 



Circle 353 on Inquiry card. 




SPECIAL OFFER! 



TURBO-MICRO COMPUTER 

Complete System With Networking Capability 

* 1 to 16 Independent users 

• 20 to 80 M.Byte hard disk 

• CP/M or TurboDos Operating System 
' 100% CP/M Compatible 

* S-100 BUS Structure, master/slave concept 

3.2 M.Byte Desk Top 

Turbo-Micro Computer, 

1 to 5 users $2895.00 

20 M.Byte Hard Disk Desk Top 

Turbo-Micro Computer, 

1 to S users S4MS.00 

20 M.Byte Hard Disk Stand-Alone 

Turbo-Micro Computer, 

1 to 16 users $6895.00 

Write or call for complete information and price 
package. _ _ _ 

C.D.S. 
SAN DIEGO, CA 92111 (619) 571-5916 



Circle 11 on Inquiry card. 




Scotch' 

DISKETTES 



Call Toll-Free 
1-800-328-DISC for prices and infor- 
mation. Dealer inquiries invited. 
C.O.D. and charge cards accepted. 
All orders shipped from stock, within 24 
hours. Coll toll FREE 




North Hills Corporation 

3564 Rolling View Dr. 

White Bear Lake, MN 55110 

1-800-328-DISC 

MNCall Collect 1 -612-770-0485 



Circle 293 on Inquiry card. 



9 

* 

<n 

17 

ft 

?5 

ft 
It 
ft 
ft 

1W 
101 
102 
IK 
104 
US 
IN 
»7 
IN 

in 

lit 

111 

112 
U! 
114 
US 
114 
117 
Ul 
M 
121 
121 
122 
121 
124 
OS 
124 
127 
121 
12! 

n 
in 

132 
IS 



002A 24! F7 24 004A R 

002F 03 F8 

0431 tl E7 

0033 261 88 14 0043 R 

0038 83 C2 M 



0038 HB800 

003E 241 88 IE 0010 f. 

0043 81 E3 0030 

0047 83 F8 30 

004A 7S03 

004C 18 8000 



Mil es!crt_cl»s iAX « CLnT t word; per line 
add diux ill » words fro» start of screen 

sol diil ! adjust for attribute by'.ps 

•ov dxies!addr_4845 ipoinl to 4845 base port 
add dxi4 ipoinl to status port 

CX has. the count of characters to write* 

SI (Source Index) points to the steins' daiai 

II (Destination Index) points to a screen position 



004F 

004F 8EC0 



0051 EB005BR 
0054 

0054 07 

0055 U 0004 



■ov 


3XiOB300H 




f default to color card 


■ov 


bxiesteouip 


.flag 




and 


bxi30H 






cte 


bxi30H 




iis it MnchroK? 


JM 


cardjot 




i noi so 


•07 


ax.OBOOOH 




i yesi set for lonocftroae 


■OV 


esiax 




i point ES to video 



0058 



carrLoK! 



i IS (Data Sedkenl) points to BASIC variables area 
i ES (Extra SeSnenl) points to video card *eMr« 
• Hoy display VARI on the screen > 



exit: 



oprinl 



this procedure displays a string of characters 

expects! 

IStSI -> first character of string 
ES'.M »> screen »eiory to display it 
CX = ninoer of characters to display 

i BX => status port of video card 



call 


print-string 




POP 


es 


irestore sedtenl register 


ret 


4 


iinterseStent relurm 

i clearing stact of 3 ergs 


endp 






pa* 







0058 











0058 


test-low! 






0058 EC 


in 


alidx 


iset status 


005? m 01 


test 


alii 


i is it lou? 


005B 75FB 


JBZ 


lesl.low 


i noi Keep cheeliinS 


005D FA 


cli 




iturn off interrupts 


005E 


test-hi! 






005E EC 


in 


alidx 


iset status 


005F AB01 


test 


alii 


i is it high? 


0061 74 FB 


jl 


testJii 


i noi Keep checking 



0043 A4 

0044 47 

0045 E2F1 

0067 FB 

0068 a 
006? 

= 0062 
006? 



inc 
loop 



di 
test-low 



sti 
ret 
print-string endp 



isKip the attribute bale 
idn till end of string 

iturn interrupts haet on 
ibacK to oprinl proc 



idefine length for BLOAB head*? 



rln.len eau I - oprinl 
cseS ends 

end header ineeded fx .BIN file conversion 



rule of having only one segment. 
Because the ES (extra segment) 
register will be destroyed by the pro- 
gram, it is saved at the beginning. 
The PUSH in line 50 means that the 
argument addresses must be calculat- 
ed keeping this in mind. 

The RET op code in line 97 is one of 
the refreshing innovations of the 8088 
microprocessor. When executed, the 
4-byte address on the top of the stack 



is loaded into the CS and IP registers, 
but before execution resumes at the 
return address, 6 is added to the stack 
pointer. This effectively pops the 
argument addresses off the stack, 
clearing it. The constant specified in 
this RET instruction must be 2 times 
the number of arguments passed from 
BASIC. 

Lines 110 through 120 are a late ad- 
dition to my original version. This 



ShareNet™ is Now 



Others Talk of Tomorrow 




The Only Complete Personal Computer Local Area Network 

Others are just talking about tomorrow's technology . . . ShareNet has it now! 
With power and capabilities found only in minicomputers and mainframes; 

Best of all it can be yours today. 
ShareNet Local Area Network gives you a true multi-user system enabling you to 
link up to 24 personal computers, five printers and use . . . 



Multiple Operating Systems 

Extensive Data Security 

Hierarchical Directory 

Default File Locking 

Concurrent File Sharing 



Print Spooling 
Redundant Directories 
Cartridge Disk Back-up 
Public & Private Directory 
Electronic Mail 



Network Interface Cards available for IBM/PC. 

Soon available: APPLE, VICTOR, DEC RAINBOW, OSBORNE, & Others. 

For tomorrow's technology, today . . . call 1-800-453-1267. 

ShareNet™ 
The Local Area Network of the Future Today 

TELEX: 669 401 AIR COURS PHX 
Novell Data Systems, Inc. 1170 N. Industrial Park Drive Orem, Utah 84057 Phone: 801-226-8202 

Circle 298 on inquiry card. 



code is copied verbatim from the 
ROM BIOS listing in the Technical 
Reference Manual. It ensures that 
screen memory is modified only while 
it is not being examined by the dis- 
play hardware, thereby avoiding ir- 
ritating "hash" streaks that result 
from modifying memory while it is 
being displayed on the screen. The 
result is a fractional lost in speed and 
a substantial gain in usability. 

Compiler BASIC 

The IBM BASIC compiler may be 
the answer to some BASIC speed 
problems, but it does not solve the 
PRINT problem. A compiled version 
of the timing test in listing 4 per- 
formed only 20 percent faster than 
the interpreted BASIC version. Using 
the call to QPRINT still speeds the 
test up by a factor of eight. Thus, 
there are good reasons to interface as- 
sembler code to compiled BASIC. 

Several changes need to be made to 
8088 subroutines that are used with 
compiled BASIC. The USR command 
is all but useless. It does not pass an 
argument to the called routine. How- 



ever, there are two forms of the 
CALL statement available in the com- 
piler. 

CALL SUBRTNAME 
[(VARIABLE!, variable] . . .)] 

is a call to an external .OBJ module. 
The module subrtname must have 
been assembled previously with a 
PUBLIC statement identifying the in- 
dicated procedure. It must be linked 
with the .OBJ module created by the 
compiler. The header bytes used in 
listing 5 must not be included in this 
type of module. 

CALL ABSOLUTE ([VARIABLE 
[.variable] . . .,] INTVAR 

calls a routine in memory in the cur- 
rently defined segment at an offset 
specified by INTVAR. This form of 
the CALL statement assumes that an 
8088 subroutine was loaded with 
BLOAD or inserted with the POKE 
command into memory beforehand. 
The arguments of either CALL 
statement are accessed exactly as de- 



scribed for interpreter BASIC. The 
lone major difference is in accessing 
string data. Compiler strings can be 
as long as 32767 bytes. Therefore, the 
string descriptor block for compiled 
BASIC is 4 bytes instead of 3. The 
first 2 bytes specify the length of the 
string, and the next 2 point to the ad- 
dress of the first character of the 
string. 

Conclusions 

Since the 8088/8086 processor has 
been blessed by IBM, it is bound to be 
around a long time. By interfacing 
BASIC with 8088 machine code, it is 
possible to create useful extensions to 
the BASIC language and realize enor- 
mous gains in execution speed. Learn- 
ing how to code with the IBM macro 
assembler is both fruitful and 
enjoyable. ■ 

About the Author 

Dan Rollins (Unique Software, 134 Olive, 
Suite §C, Clendale, CA 91206) is a freelance 
programmer and technical writer. He is cur- 
rently working on IBM-PC: 8088 Macro 
Assembler Programming to be published by 
Macmillan in 1984. 



PRICE. SERVICE, INTEGRITY... YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF TO CALL US! 



, s o NLY (800)392-7081 



TOLL -FREE 
ORDERS OIML 




Star Gemmi-10 100 CPS, 9x9hi res 
graphic, friction /tractor feed, 80 
column, Parallel interface.. $CALL 
Gemini 15 15" carriage. . . SCALL 




New! Letter quality daisywheel 
printer with 2-color printing. Logic 
seeking, bi-directional, proportional 
spacing, graphic & bold printing, 
direct printing, super/sub script, 
auto double strike & underline. 3 K 
buffer. Parallel $CALL 




OKIDATA PRINTERS 

ML-80P, 80 CPS, 80 col., friction & 
pin feed, block graphics, parallel 

interface 

ML-82A, 120 CPS, 80 col., pin & 
friction feed, block graphics, serial 

& parallel interfaces S399 

Okigraph-I 82A, 60x66 DPI dot 
addressable gaphics for 82 A . . $45 
ML-83A, 120 CPS, 136 col., tractor 
& friction feed, pa rail el /serial .$699 
Okigraph-I 83A, 60x66 DPI dot 
addressable graphics for S3A . $45 
ML-84P, 200 CPS, 136 col., 9-pin 
head, dot 'addressable graphics, fric- 
tion & tractor feed, parallel . .$999 
ML-84S, above but serial. . $1,099 
ML-92P, 160 CPS, 80 col., friction 
& tractor feed, 9-pin head, 72x72 
DPI dot add graphics, paralle .$549 
ML-92S, above but serial. . . .$639 
ML-93P, 160 CPS, 136 col., tractor 
Si friction feed, 9-pin head, 72x72 
DPI dot add. gaphics, parallel .$879 
ML-93S, above but serial . 




JUKI 6100 

NEW I Letter quality daisvwheel 
printer. Features an 18 CPS speed, 
10/12/15 pitches, 100-character 
daisywheel, 13" platen, a graphic 
mode & word processing functions. 
2K buffer, 62dB quiet operation. 
It utilizes the popular IBM Select ric 
MWfjtW ribbons. Parallel 




C. Itoh ProWriter 8510AP,12O CPS, 
80 col., Graphics, Parallel . . .$379 
C. Itoh ProWrtier-11 1550, 120 CPS, 

136 col., 2K buffer, parallel . .$649 




DS Prism 80C, 200 CPS, 80 col., 4- 
color, graphics, 3K buffer, 24x9 

dot matrix. Parallel $1,259 

IDS Prism 132C, above but 132 col. 
Parallel $1,495 




BROTHER HR-1 

Letter quality daisywheel printer 

1 6 CPS, bi-directional, friction feed. 
parallel or serial interface . . .$749 
Tractor $119 

COMREXCR-1 

17 CPS daisywheel printer, bi-direc- 
tional, parallel or serial $749 

Tractor .$119 



DAISYWRITER2O00 

The intelligent letter-quality printer 
w/48K built-in buffer memory, 17 
CPS. bi-directional, auto maroin ius- 
tificati on, universal interfaces $1,1 95 




C. Itoh F-10StarWriter 

40 CPS daisywheel (parallel) $1,150 
55 CPS daisywheel (parallel) $1,575 
Tractor for F-10 $225 




NEC SPtNWRITER 3550 

NEC's new letter-quality printer 
especially designed for the IBM PC. 
203 columns, auto proportional 
space, justification, bi-directional, 
350 words per min. Parallel. $1,815 

Tractor $245 

Cutshaet Feedi 




TRANSTAR 130P 

Letter quality daisywheel printer. 
16 CPS, bi-directional, proportional 
spacing, super/sub script, underline, 
bold face. 65dB quiet operation. 
Parallel $699 



|Cable-IBM to parallel printer--$35J 



Multi- Function 

Cards for 
IBM PC and XT 

New Low Prices! 
(Each card now comes w/ 
SuperDri ve & SuperSpool) 



Hlllllll , (Si ■ ■ ■" "■" -J ; 



- ComboPlus Cards - 



Amount of memory installed on card — 



-64K 12BK 192K 256K 



with all options (serial, parallel ports & clock) — $287 $337 $387 $437 

MegaPlus Cards 

Amount of memory installed on card 64K 128K 192K 256K 

w/standard features of serial port No. 1 A clock- $289 $339 $389 $439 

w/ either parallel or additional serial port No. 2 - $324 $374 $424 $474 

w/ both parallel and additional serial port No. 2 $359 $409 $459 $509 

MegaPak — expends a fully populated MegaPlus card to 51 2K .... $335 

I/O Plus Cards 

Standard card w/one serial port (SI) and clock/calendar $129 

with ONE additional option:game(G)orparallel(P)orserial 2{S2) port $165 

with TWO additional options (GP.GS2, or PS2) $199 

with all THREE additional Options (GPS2) $232 



B EASTERN ENTERPRISES, INC. 
2937 S. VAIL AVE., LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90040 



MONITOR 
SALE 



■ 1111IJIJ.II.IHW1 

BMC BM-AU9191MU, 13" RGB 

color, 640-dot high resolution. 

Designed for IBM PC. Sale $519 
Princeton HX-12, 12" RGB color, 

690-dot hi resolution. Sale $535 
Amdek RGB Color II, 13", 560-dot 

Sale $539 

Texan RGBvision 1, 12",380-dov. 1B 

MHz. 2,000 char. (5x7 dots). 

List $399.00 . $319 

Taxan RGBvlsionlll. 12", 630-dot, 

18 MHz. 16 colors. . . . .$549 
Cable - Taxan to IBM PC . $19.00 

nxEnsEsmnxj 

Dynax GM-I20, 12" green, 600 line. 
20 MHz. Made by JVC. Excellent! 

List $200.00 $129.00 

Taxan KG-12N, 12" green 800-dot, 

List $199.00 $149.99 

Zenith ZVM121, 12" green, 15MHz 

List $139.00 $119.00 

USI PI-2, 1 2" green, 1 ,000 line, 20 
MHz $159.00 

IlllllUJXUlJJ.IMII 

Amdek V310-A, 12" amber, 900- 

dot, for IBM PC $175 

Dynax AM121, 12" umber, 600-dot 

20 MHz.Made byJVC. Excellent! 

List $250.00 $149.00 

Taxan KA12N, 12" amber, 800-dot, 

List $205.00 $150.00 

USI Pt-3, 1 2" amber, 1 ,000 line, 20 

MHz . $179.00 

QjHayeJ 

Smart Modem' 

300 Call 

1200- — Call 

RS-232C Cable for Modem . . S35~] 





PC 

XT I 

jam 

BM Personal Computers 

The new XT Model available now. 
Call for prices & configurations 

1-2-3 (Req. DS drive). .$495 CALL 

dBASE II $700 $439 

Bottom Line Strategist . $400 $269 

TKISolver $299 .$249 

T.I.M. Ill $495 $349 

WordStar $495 $299 

MailMerge $250 $159 

SpellStar $250 $169 

Wordstar & Spellstar . .$695 $399 
Wordstar & Mailmerge .$645 $345 

VisiCalc/256K $250 $179 

VisiFile $300 $219 

VisiDex $250 $199 

Spellguard $195 $149 

Versaform $389 $249 

PeachPak (GL/AR/AP) .$595 $359 
The Tax Manager . . . .$250 $179 

Multiplan $275 $199 

Flight Simulator $49 $39 

PC Tutor $79 $69 

Home Accountant Plus. $150 $109 

1st Class Mail $125 $99 

Property Management . $495 $339 




5V« TANOON DRIVES 
The newest. IBM PC compatible. 
Installation instruction included. 
TM100-1A.SSDD 160K . . . $195 
TM100-2A, DSDD320K. . . .$259 




412 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 151 on Inquiry card. 




BOXED IN THE CORNER 
BY YOUR SMALL 
BUSINESS COMPUTER? 



The trouble with many of today's better known 
small business computers is they box you into a single 
user system. So after your big initial investment, you 
still have a single user system. You always will. 

Now there's the Ze/^s 4 from OSM Computers. The 
Zeys 4 is the first multi-user, multi-processor micro at 
single user prices. The Ze/xs 4 is less than one cubic foot 
and weighs 24.6 pounds. 

Yet, it's like four separate, powerful small business 
computers in one. It allows up to four users to share 
a common data base or work independently. Each has 
his own CPU, 64K of RAM and I/O ports. That means 
greater operator independence, more processor power 
and greater reliability. 

You needn't worry about running out of storage 
capacity either. The Ze/xs 4 comes with a built-in hard 
disk, so users share up to 19MB of storage, about twice as 
much as most other multi-user systems. 

You'll enjoy maximum flexibility in software appli- 
cations too, because Ze^s 4's MUSE operating system 
runs programs compatible with CP/M. Plus MUSE 
provides extensive file management functions typically 
found only on mini computers. 

Here's another big advantage: The Ze/xs 4 is 



designed for low maintenance, low down-time. Its four 
modules snap in and out with a few minutes work. 
So if repairs are ever needed, modules are simply 
replaced through OSM's limited warranty program. 

Maybe the best thing is that you can buy the 
powerful and expandable Ze,us 4 for $4,595 ($6,595 fully 
configured for four users). 

The Zenxs 4 from OSM, the latest in a family of 
powerful, multi-user small business computers. It's the 
little box that lets you grow without boxing you in. 

To find out more, 

call (800) 538-5120 
or (415) 961-8680 in 
California or write to 
OSM Computer Cor- 
poration, 665 Clyde 
Avenue, Mountain 
View, CA 94043. 




Computers. Your power to expand. 



CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc 

ZejiS 4 and MUSE are trademarks of OSM Computer Corporation. 

© 1983 OSM Computers. 

Circle 309 on inquiry card. 



[communications. One 
illation. Smartraode 

1 Smartcom II sCftwa 

sle now. 



Thanks to Smartcom II companion 
^software, telecomputing is a 
freeze. You'll be creating files 
and sending data in no time. 



IJeed important information from the 
* -tfxiain office... today? Get it quickly, 
efficiently, accurately. From their 
computer to yours. 





Your computer's telephone. 



Hayes is still leading the way with 
new telecomputing products. And 
now combining every bit of sophisti- 
cated technology into one communi- 
cations package for your IBM* PC. 
Smartmodem 1200B and Smartcom 
II™ software. Everything you need. 
And more. 

Whether you're receiving updates 
from the field, placing orders with 
suppliers a thousand miles away, or 
taking advantage of the diverse re- 
sources offered by networks and infor- 
mation services. Let Hayes provide 
the communications link. With our 
popular 1200 bps Smartmodem. Now 
available as a convenient plug-in 
board for the IBM PC. And packaged 
with our own communications software 

Smartmodem 1200B. Your com- 
puter's telephone. That's really what 
it is. A telephone that allows your 
computer to communicate over ordi- 
nary phone lines at up to 1200 bits per 



%/////0 LI 



second. For speedy, economical trans- 
mission of data to any Bell 212A or Bell 
103 type modem. And it's the one 
peripheral that vasdy expands the use- 
fulness of your computer. 

Our single board Smartmodem 1200B 
can be installed by your computer 
dealer in minutes. It connects directly 
to your phone jack, operating with 
rotary dial, Touch-Tone** and key-set 
systems. Smartmodem 1200B will dial, 
answer and disconnect all of your 
calls automatically. It will even redial 
your last number upon command 

Smartmodem 1200B 
also features an auto- 
matic speed selector, 
that detects incoming 
transmission speeds. Along with 
screen displays to show you its current 
operating status. And, unlike some 



t command. oisk. iimuita 

mAnd when 
Hayes 



1200 baud modems, Smartmodem 
1200B operates at full or half duplex, 
for compatibility with most time- 
sharing systems. 

For those who enjoy designing their 
own programs, Smartmodem 1200B is 
controllable using any programming 
language. But none of that is necessary. 
Thanks to Smartcom II. The commu- 
nications program designed by Hayes, 
specifically for Smartmodem! 

Smartcom II companion software. 
Maximizes Smartmodem's capabili- 
ties. Minimizes your effort. The first 
time out, you'll be creating messages, 
sending, printing and storing them to 
disk. Simultaneously. 

And when you're on the receiving 
end, your IBM PC will 
do all the work, com- 
pletely unattended! 

But that's just part of Smartcom II's 
innovative story. For instance, before 
you communicate with another system, 



Imagine. Your computer can receive, 
print and store data, concurrently. 
Without your even 
being there! 



• 




A complete plug-in communications 
package for the IBM PC. 



Smartmodem 1200B. (Includes 
telephone cable.) 



you need to "set up" your computer to 
match the way the remote system 
transmits data. With Smartcom II, you 
do this only once. After that, para- 
meters are stored in a directory on 
Smartcom II. Calling or answering a 
system listed in the directory requires 
just a few quick keystrokes. 

You can store lengthy log-on sequences 
the same way. Press one key, and 
Smartcom II automatically connects 
you to a utility or information service. 

And if you need it, there's always 
"help:' One of several special functions 
assigned to your IBM function keys, this 
feature explains prompts, messages, etc. 
to make communicating even easier. 

Smartcom II also provides a directory! 
of the files stored on your disk. Letting 
you create, display, list, name, re-name 
or erase any file right from the screen. 

Like all our products, Smartcom II 
and Smartmodem 1200B are backed 
by excellent documentation, a limited 
two-year warranty, and full support. 
From us to your dealer to you. 

So, see your dealer today. Link up to 
the exciting world of telecomputing. 
With Hayes complete plug-in commu- 
nications package for your IBM PC. 

Hayes Microcomputer Products, 
Inc., 5923 Peachtree Industrial Blvd., 
Norcross, Georgia 30092. 404/449-8791. 



Smartcom II is a registered trademark of Hayes Microcomputer 

Products, Inc. 

'IBM is a registered trademark of International Business 

Machines Corp. 

**TM of American Telephone and Telegraph. 

©1983 Hayes Microcomputer Products. Inc. 

sold only in the us.A. Circle 186 on inquiry card 




Requires an IBM PC with mini- 
mum 96K bytes of memory; 
IBM DOS 1.10 or 1.00; one disk 
drive; and 80-column display. No 
serial card or separate power 
source is needed. 



Before you bet your software 
business on an OS, look who's 
betting on MS-DOS and XENIX. 



A waiting market. If you write and sell 16-bit 
software, MSra-DOS and XENIX™ give you the 
largest installed base. In fact, over fifty 16-bit 
manufacturers offer their microcomputers with 
MS-DOS or XENIX. IBM, Victor, Altos, Wang, 
Radio Shack, Zenith and Intel, to name just a few. 
And the list is growing. That means there's a 
ready and expanding market for your 16-bit 
applications software. 

The UNIX™ connection. XENIX is the multi-user, 
multi-tasking, UNIX-derived operating system 
for 16-bit microcomputers. MS-DOS 2.0 is 
Microsoft's single-user OS. MS-DOS and XENIX 
share hierarchical file structure and I/O redirection, 
including simple piping. MS-DOS 2.0 also pro- 
vides XENIX-compatible system calls. That means 
there's a migration path for programs written 
to run under MS-DOS and XENIX. What's more, 
both MS-DOS and XENIX are supported by 
Microsoft® languages. That's your single-supplier 
advantage from Microsoft. 

Comprehensive support. Microsoft offers you 
a full product support program. Excellent docu- 
mentation. Plus continual enhancements to both 
languages and operating systems. Your applications 
programs can even be listed in Microsoft's grow- 
ing Source Directory of 16-bit applications 
packages. Contact us for current software 
offerings and vendors. 

Leadership. Microsoft led the 
world into the 8-bit 
microcomputer 
marketplace 



with the first BASIC for microcomputers. Now, 
we're leading it into the 16-bit market with single 
and multi-user operating systems. 

Bet the winner. If you're writing and marketing 
software in the 16-bit marketplace, MS-DOS 
and XENIX are setting the standard. In fact, they're 
the standard operating systems for the world's 
largest selling 16-bit microcomputer systems. 
Which means your market is already there. . .and 
growing. Contact us for complete information. 
Before you bet your software on an operating 
system, look where your market is betting. 

BETTER TOOLS FOR MICROCOMPUTERS 

MICROSOFT 

MICROSOFT CORPORATION 

10700 NORTHUP WAY 

BELLEVUE, WASHINGTON 98004 



Microsoft is a registered trademark, 

and MS, XENIX and the Microsoft 

logo are trademarks of Microsoft 

Corporation. 

UNIX is a trademark of Bell 

Laboratories 



*^a 



*C?> 



XEMOC 



X' 






^b> 



^ 



-&^ 



RADIO 
SHACK 



^S 



; *>j 



*C? 






l 7cr, 



r O/{ 



ZENITH 



IBM 






Squeezing Memory from 
the Apple with Pascal 

Using Apple Pascals segmentation facilities 

and a few other techniques, you can write bigger programs 

than you might have thought possible. 



Segmentation is one memory-man- 
agement technique used to implement 
virtual memory, itself a concept that 
has only recently entered the world of 
microcomputers. With virtual mem- 
ory, disk storage is employed in a 
manner that creates the illusion that 
more main memory is available than 
actually exists. 

Virtual memory was invented by 
mainframe computer designers, but 
some of the more sophisticated 
microcomputer operating systems, 
such as Apple/UCSD Pascal, can per- 
form segmentation and are therefore 
well suited to implement virtual 
memory. Proper use of UCSD 
Pascal's virtual memory and other 
resident facilities allows you to write 
much larger programs than would 
otherwise be possible. 

With segmentation, a program is 
broken up into chunks (segments) of 
which only a few are actually in 
memory at a given time. If a segment 
not in memory (nonresident) is called 
(demanded), it is loaded into memory 
from disk. This technique is possible 
because all of a program's instruc- 
tions cannot be executed simulta- 



by Jill David 

neously, so there is no need to have 
an entire program in memory at once. 
Segmentation and other memory- 
management techniques, such as pag- 
ing, allow maximum exploitation of 
virtual memory. Importantly, the 
process is efficient enough so that the 
time delay of swapping program por- 
tions in and out of memory is barely 
noticeable to the user. 

Among its other 

benefits, segmentation 

induces better program 

organization. 

Besides allowing you to write 
larger programs, segmentation has 
other advantages. It favors the logical 
grouping of related routines (proce- 
dures or functions) in one unit, called 
a segment, thus encouraging you to 
write well-organized code and to keep 
track of the relationships among the 
routines and the frequency with 
which they call each other. 

Segmentation also allows more ef- 
ficient memory use by requiring a 



program segment to be in memory 
only when it is called. As a result, 
routines used infrequently — or only 
once — do not take up memory space 
when not being used. Initialization 
routines or procedures, which are 
often quite large, are prime candi- 
dates for segmenting; they are exe- 
cuted once at the start of a program 
and usually are not needed again. 

Segmentation does have some dis- 
advantages, such as a time/space 
trade-off — a program segment must 
be loaded into memory from disk 
when it is called, causing a slight 
delay in program execution. Under 
the older version of Apple/UCSD 
Pascal, the time delay was intoler- 
able; in the newer version (1.1) disk 
accessing is considerably faster, with 
the delay while loading a new seg- 
ment taking only a few seconds. 

Further, the operating system must 
be more complex to keep track of 
which segments are where, but this 
complexity is transparent to the user, 
and the capability for segmentation 
exists whether you choose to use it or 
not. 

With the standard version of the 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications lnc 417 



(la) 



(lb) 



(lc) 



USER MAIN PROGRAM 




USER MAIN PROGRAM 




USER MAIN PROGRAM 


(1) LIST 

(2) SEARCH 

(3) SORT 

(4) SAVE 

(5) ENTER 

(6) CHANGE 
OR DELETE 


UNSEGMENTED 
PROCEDURES 


UNSEGMENTED 
PROCEDURES 


(5) ENTER 


(8) NEW OPTION 


DATA FILE RECORDS 


DATA FILE RECORDS 


DATA FILE RECORDS 


WITHOUT SEGMENTAT 


ON 


WITH SEGMENTATION 




WITH SEGMENTATION 



Figure 1: With segmentation, not only can more records be included, but the applica- 
tion program can be expanded to include more capabilities. 



Apple II and lie, you are limited to 16 
segments per program (this figure is 
not exactly correct but I'll explain this 
later). Because a segment is designed 
for a large section of a program, 
rather than for a single small pro- 
cedure, this 16-segment limit is hardly 
a handicap for Apple Pascal pro- 
grams if segmentation is used proper- 
ly. In fact, the entire operating system 
of UCSD Pascal never exceeded this 
limit even though it used segmenta- 
tion extensively in many of its pro- 
grams, such as the Compiler. 

(The filer was intentionally not seg- 
mented so that you could remove the 
system disk on which the filer resides, 
yet maintain access to the filer com- 
mands. If the filer had been seg- 
mented, that system disk would have 
had to remain in a drive so the filer 
could be called into memory when 
the filer's commands were needed. 
Similarly, the code file for segmented 
programs must remain online on a 
disk drive unit throughout exe- 
cution.) 

Are you convinced in favor of seg- 
mentation yet7 If not, consider how it 
would affect a hypothetical database 
application with a menu of the fol- 
lowing options: 

Select: 

1. list records 

2. search for record 

3. sort file 

4. save file 

5. enter a new record 

6. change or delete a record 

7. quit 



Figure 1 shows a bird's-eye view of 
memory at a point during execution 
of this program. Figure la shows 
memory without segmentation; 
figure lb shows what memory might 
look like if segmentation were used. 

As the figure illustrates, segmenta- 
tion makes more room available for 
records of the hypothetical database 
file. 

To create segment 

procedures and 

segment functions, you 

simply place the 

keyword SEGMENT in 

front of the keyword 

PROCEDURE or 

FUNCTION. 



Figures lb and lc indicate a space 
for unsegmented procedures/func- 
tions — frequently used procedures 
that will remain in memory at all 
times, such as a procedure to print 
one record (on screen or printer) that 
may be called from the ENTER, 
CHANGE or DELETE, LIST, and 
SEARCH routines. In addition to in- 
creased space for data structures, ex- 
panding the program to include more 
options may not be possible without 
segmentation, unless the number of 
database records is decreased (figures 
la and lc). 

What happens to a segment when 
its execution terminates? The calling 
routine continues executing, pretend- 



ing that the old segment in memory 
doesn't exist; or if another segment 
procedure is called, then the new one 
is loaded into memory from disk, per- 
haps overwriting the old one. (For 
more information about program stack 
management during execution, see 
the Apple Pascal Operating System 
Reference Manual [Cupertino, CA: 
Apple Computer Inc., 1980], pages 
248-264.) 

Three Varieties 

There are three kinds of segments: 
(1) your main program itself is a seg- 
ment; (2) segment procedures and 
segment functions are segments; and 
(3) regular units are segments. The 
first category is self-explanatory. Seg- 
ment procedures and segment func- 
tions are simply procedures and func- 
tions that you have specified as 
separate segments by adding the key- 
word SEGMENT in front of the key- 
word PROCEDURE or FUNCTION 
(as in the statement SEGMENT PRO- 
CEDURE SEARCH(ITEM: DATA- 
TYPE); or SEGMENT FUNCTION 
SEARCH(ITEM: DATATYPE) BOOL- 
EAN;). 

Only a few rules need to be fol- 
lowed when using segment proce- 
dures or functions: 

Rule 1: Segment procedures (or 
functions) must be the first definitions 
after the variable declaration (VAR) 
section of the main program. Because 
some segment procedures (or func- 
tions) may call procedures or func- 
tions that are unsegmented (i.e., in 
memory all the time), FORWARD 
references must be declared for these 
unsegmented procedures after the 
VAR section. Otherwise the Com- 
piler will mark the procedure calls 
within the segmented procedure as 
undeclared identifiers and issue a 
compile-time error. 

The skeleton program in listing 1 
includes a FORWARD reference. The 
parameters of the procedure (or func- 
tion) are declared in the FORWARD 
reference, but they are not repeated in 
the actual definition of the procedure, 
which appears after all segment-pro- 
cedure definitions. FORWARD refer- 
ences may be used in any program, 
segmented or unsegmented. 



418 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Listing 1: // using segment procedures or functions, other procedures and functions 
must be declared with FORWARD references to avoid errors at compile-time. 

PROGRAM DATABASE; 

USES APPLESTUFF, TURTLEGRAPHICS; 

TYPE 

VARS 

PRODECURE PRINTRECCI: INTEGER); FORWARD; t* <a) 
PROCEDURE SAVEFILE; FORWARD; 

SEGMENT PROCEDURE INITVARS; 

END; C end seg-proc initvars > 
SEGMENT PROCEDURE ENTERDATA; 

PRINTREC(K); < call to printrec > 
END; i end seg-proc initvars > 
SEGMENT PROCEDURE SEARCH; 

PRINTREC <K>; t call to printrec > 
END; <. end seg-proc search > 

< remaining segment procedures or -functions > 
PROCEDURE PRINTREC; C no parameters here > ** Cb) 

END; < end printrec > 
PROCEDURE SAVEFILE; 

END; { end save-file > 

BEGIN 

<. main program begins here > 

END. 



Rule 2: Calls to segment proce- 
dures or functions within a loop of 
another procedure may cause ex- 
cessive swapping of segments in and 
out of memory and should be 
avoided. For example, the program 
excerpt FOR I: = 1 TO N DO ENTER- 
DATA; would be very inefficient. 

If ENTERDATA were a segment 
procedure, the system would load the 
ENTERDATA segment into memory 
from disk N times. It is far more effi- 
cient (whether ENTERDATA is a seg- 
ment procedure or not) to incor- 
porate the loop within the procedure 
ENTERDATA, perhaps like this: 

SEGMENT PROCEDURE ENTERDATA: 

TYPE 

VAR ; CH: CHAR; 

BEGIN 
REPEAT 

<body of ENTERDATA > 
WRITECENTER MORE DATA?'); 
READLN(CH) 
UNTIL CH IN ['N'/n'l 

END; 



Not only are the disk accesses 
avoided, but the procedure is more 
general, and the segment ENTER- 
DATA will remain in memory as long 
as needed. REPEAT or WHILE loops 
could be used for this purpose. 
(REPEAT loops are used for execut- 
ing a group of statements one or more 
times; WHILE loops are used for zero 
or more repetitions.) 

Rule 3: Only 16 segment proce- 
dures, segment functions, and regular 
units can be declared. Regular units will 
be treated in the next section. All code 
segments (a compiled or assembled 
program) contain a table called the seg- 
ment dictionary for that code file. 
(Pages 266-270 of the operating system 
reference manual list all the informa- 
tion in the segment dictionary.) This 
table is referenced by the operating 
system during program execution and 
contains information about the dif- 
ferent segments within a program, in- 
cluding name, location on disk, length, 
and type of code file. Only 16 slots 



have been provided in this table for 
segment information; thus, only 16 seg- 
ments are allowed to be incorporated in 
a program. (By executing 
APPLE3:LIBMAP and entering the 
name of any code file, you can see what 
segments a code file contains. Try this 
on the SYSTEM.COMPILER for an 
eye-opener.) For more information on 
this, see pages 194-198 in the operating 
system reference manual. 

When a code file is executed, the 
Pascal system maintains a run-time 
segment table in memory into which 
it loads the information from the exe- 
cuting program's segment dictionary. 
The run-time segment table has slots 
for 32 entries. Slots and 2 through 6 
are reserved for system use, slot 1 is 
reserved for your main program, and 
slot numbers from 7 on are assigned 
in ascending order to segment proce- 
dures and regular units used in the 
program. Sixteen slots are available 
for your program and 6 slots for the 
Pascal system. The remaining 10 may 
be filled by another type of unit, an 
intrinsic unit. Thus, your program 
may actually have up to 26 slots filled 
by a combination of segment proce- 
dures or functions, regular units, and 
intrinsic units. Table 1 illustrates the 
contents of the run-time segment 
table for the hypothetical database 
program. 

Regular and Intrinsic Units 

Besides conventional and seg- 
mented procedures and functions, 
you can define sections of code to be 
regular units or intrinsic units. Unlike 
segment procedures and functions, 
units are kept in memory throughout 
execution of the entire program. 
Thus, units are suitable only for fre- 
quently used routines. 

Regular units are distinguished 
from intrinsic units (for example, 
TURTLEGRAPHICS or APPLESTUFF) 
by the fact that the code for regular 
units is physically inserted into your 
program and occupies a slot in the 
program's segment dictionary. The 
code for intrinsic units actually 
resides in the SYSTEM. LIBRARY on 
APPLEl (the disk containing a major 
part of Apple Pascal and some of the 
system tables) and occupies a slot in 
the SYSTEM.LIBRARY's segment die- 



BYTE July 1983 419 



CompuShagk 




Special 
of the 
Month! 



IBM PC- COMPLETE LINE 

IBM 

PC System includes 64K IBM-PC with. 
320KB Floppy Disk Drive, Controller, 
Color Graphics Card, Monochrome 
Monitor. All for only $2599.00 



LOTUS 1-2-3 SOFTWARE 



$459 



TAVA CORP. PRODUCTS 



Mw 



TRUMPCARD 

A unique memory card with 256K Ram 
Game I/O and Serial I/O ... . $399.00 
TRUMP CARD II 

Serial I/O and 512K fully populated 
memory card $599.00 




II 
AST RESEARCH 

IO Plus-Parallel & Serial Port, Clock 
Calendar W/Bat. back-up, Superdrive, 
Superspool $199.00 

Combo Plus- 256K, Parallel & Serial 
Port, Clock Calendar W/Bat. back-up, 

Superdrive, Superspool $499.00 

Mega Plus- 512K, Parallel & Serial Port, 
Clock Calendar W/Bat. back-up $999.00 

QUADRAM 

Quad Board - 256K, Parallel Port, Serial 
I/O. Clock Calendar with battery backup 

$599.00 
512K Ram with Serial I/O . . . $799.00 
PERSYST 

Time Spectrum, Four Function Card 64K 
Ram, Clock Calendar, Parallel Port Serial 

Port $399.00 

MAYNARD SANDSTAR SERIES 

Multifunction Card $95.00 

Floppy Disk Controller .... $225.00 

Memory Card $189.00 

Add-On Memory Module .... $99.00 

Parallel Port Module $75.00 

Serial Port Module $95.00 

Clock Calendar Module $75.00 

Games Adapter Module $59.00 

•IBM is a registered Trademark of \BM Corporation. 



HERCULES GRAPHICS CARD 

This card gives you 720x350 
graphics $499.00 

BIG BLUE $479.00 

DISK DRIVES 

For IBM PC 

Tandon 100-2 CALL 

Teac 55-B Slimline 320KB $260 

Shugart SA-455 Slimline 320KB .$250 

OTHER PRODUCTS FOR IBM 

MODULE CONVERSIONS FOR 
YOUR IBM-PC 




80286 
16032 
UNIX/XENIX" 

Visit our Stores for more detailsl 



FLOPPY DISK DRIVES 

SHUGART 

SA400 SS/SD $169.00 

SA450 DS/DD $239.00 

SA800/801 SS/SD $365.00 

SA850/851 DS/DD $459.00 



"• 





TANDON 

TM-100-1 SS/DD CALL 

TM-100-2 DS/DD CALL 

TM- 100-4 DS/DD $359.00 

TM-848-1 SS/DD i $425.00 

TM-848-2 DS/DD $499.00 

SIEMENS 

FDD 100-5 $159.00 

FDD 200-5 $199.00 

QUME 

DT-5 DS/DD $269.00 

DT-8 DS/DD $469.00 

'APPLE is a registered trademark of Apple Computers. Inc 



HARD DISK SYSTEMS FOR IBM 
AND APPLE 

DATAMAC 

6MB $1395.00 

12MB $1595.00 

18MB $1995.00 

Complete subsystem with software, 
cables and power supply 

DAVONG FOR IBM 

Internal External 

5MB $1495 $1695 

10MB $1795 $1995 

15MB $2295 $2495 

21MB $2595 $2795 

32MB $2995 $3195 

PRINTERS 

NEC 
SPINWRITER 



SEC 




7710-1 
7715-1 
7730-1 
7720-1 
7725-1 



$1995 
$2195 
$1995 
$2595 
$2595 



3510 . . . 
3515 . . . 
3530 . . . 
3550 . . . 
PC8023A 



STAR MICRONICS 

Gemini 10 

Gemini 15 



$1395 
$1395 
$1595 
$1895 
$ 495 

CALL 
CALL 



SMITH CORONA M 

TP-1 parallel $579.00 

TP-1 serial $579.00 

C-ITOH 

GX-100 (50 CPS Dot Matrix) . $249.00 

8510 $469.00 

1550 (15") $699.00 

F-10 (40 CPS. Letter Qual.) $1395.00 
F-10 (55 CPS, Letter Qual.) $1695.00 



OKIDATA 

82A 

83A 

84AP parallel 
84AS serial . . 

92A 

93A 



IDS PRISM 

Prism 1 32 (B & W) 
Color 



$429.00 
$699.00 
$999.00 
$1099.00 
$525.00 
$999.00 

$1395.00 
$ CALL 



brother brother 

HR-1 A parallel . . . . $769.00 

HR-1 A serial $869.00 

HR-15 $599.00 

Tractor feed option $135.00 

-DATA DRIVE. APPLETTE 1, APPLETTE 2. and TRUMP 
CARD are registered trademarks of TAVA Corporation 



420 BYTE July 1983 



WE'VE MOVED 

TO BIGGER FACILITIES 

TO SERVE YOU BETTER 

PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW PHONE 



(714) 261-1 



I I I 



Sales and Service: Business & Home Computers 

PRICES AND AVAILABILITY SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE 



TAVA PRINTERS Q 
BY DIABLO ^GP' 

DOT MATRIX PRINTERS 
Model 11 

80 Column/ 1 00 CPS $599.00 

Model 31 

132 Column/100 CPS CALL 

Model 32 

132 Column/ 150 CPS CALL 

Model 38 

132 Column/400 CPS ... $1999.00 

Tava 80DM 

Dot Mtx, Epson MX80 

Compatible Printer $299.00 

DAISY WHEEL PRINTERS 
Model 620 

1 32 Column/20CPS $899.00 

Model 630 

API/40 CPS Letter Quality $1499.00 

Model 630 

ECX/API-40CPS 

Multi-Lingual $1899.00 



MONITORS 




AVAILABLE (All Models) .... CALL 
AMDEK MONITORS 

Color I $359.00 

Color II $699.00 

Color III $399.00 

300A $199.00 

310A $239.00 

PRINCETON GRAPHIC SYSTEMS 

His Res. Color $599.00 

TELEVIDEO 

910 $699.00 

925 $799.00 

950 $999.00 

SINCLAIR/TIMEX PRODUCTS 

MEMOTECH PRODUCTS 

16K Memopack $ 59.00 

32K Memopack $ 99.00 

64K Memopack $169.00 

Memopack High Res. Graphics 

$139.00 
Memopack Centronics parallel Inter- 
face $139.00 



"CP/M and CP/M86 are registered trademarks of Digital 
Research, Inc. 



HX-20 

Notebook Computer CALL 

EPD PRODUCTS 

Lemon Surge Protector $49.95 

Lime Surge Protector $79.95 

Peach Surge Protector $89.95 

Orange Surge Protector .... $129.95 
Plum Surge Protector $48.95 

apple 




Apple He 64K Complete System, 80 
Column Card, One Disk Drive w/Con- 
troller. Monitor, Stand, plus 20 diskettes 

$1795.00 

Apple II + Compatible Computer 
System W/48K of memory. One "Data 
Drive" disk drive, Controller card, 12" 
green screen Hi-Resolution Monitor. All 
Cables are included for a Compushack 
price of $999.00 

TAVA 80E 

Apple He and TRS 80 Compatible Dual 

Purpose Computer $899.00 

PERSONAL ACCOUNTANT 

Software for your Apple He and Apple II + . 

List $399.00 CompuShack Price 

$199.00 

OTHER PRODUCTS 

FOR APPLE 

Special of the Month! 



TAVA CORP. 

DATA DRIVE 



$259 





100% Compatible Disk drive for 
APPLE II + and APPLE lie. Runs DOS, 
CPM®. Pascal software. 
Suggested retail price -$399.00 

16861 ARMSTRONG, IRVINE. CA 92714 
HEADQUARTERS/TELEX: 181667 — ANSWER 



Z80 card CP/M® included . . . $159.00 

80 column card $179.00 

Disk drive controller card W/ 

diagnostics software $99.00 

Disk drive controller $79.00 

HAYES MICROCOMPUTER 

PRODUCTS 

Micromodem II 300 baud . . . $299.95 

Smartmodem 1200 baud full 

duplex $529.95 

KAYPRO II COMPUTER SYSTEM 

64K Ram, Perfect Writer, Perfect Filer, 
Perfect Speller, Perfect Calc, S-Basic, 
CP/M®version 2.2, two disk drives, 9" 
(green) monitor, RS232 interface. Parallel 
Printer interface $1699.00 

DEC Rainbow 100 

Keybaord, CPU, Z-80/8088, 64K, Serial 
RS232 Port, Two X-400KB Disk Drives, 
Monitor, CP/M86®/80 Software, 

CALL 

DECMATE II 

Complete System, Keyboard, CPU, 64K 
Words Ram, two 400 KB disk drives, 
monochrome monitor, operating sys- 
tem CALL 

DEC PROFESSIONAL 300 

Complete System, Keyboard, CPU, 256 KB 
Ram, two 400 KB disk drives, mono- 
chrome monitor, operating system 

CALL 

CALL YOUR LOCAL 
COMPUSHACK DEALERS: 



CompuShack 



California 


Tustm 


(714) 730-7227 




La Mirada 


(213) 947-9505 




Pasadena 


(213) 792-B889 




San Fernando 


Valley (213) 906-7000 




San Jose 


(408J 973-1444 




Irvine 


(714| 261-1000 




Walnut Creek 


(415) 945-8011 


Colorado 


Denver 


(303) 422-4545 


Idaho 


Twin Falls 


• 


Illinois 


Chicago 


(312| 964-4612 


Montana 


Great Falls 


• 




Missoula 


(406) 721-1811 


New York 


New York 


(800) 228-5525 




Rochester 


(716) 924-2544 




Rome 


(315) 336-0266 


Texas 


Austin 


(512) 258-1062 


Washington 


Richland 


* 




Spokane 


• 


Wisconsin 


Verona 


(608J 845-7110 


Canada 


Toronto 


(416) 249-8601 


U.K. 


London 


01-935-0480 



•CALL FOR NUMBER 
ALL FLOPPIES REPAIRED QUICKLY AT LOW COST 
BACK: COMPDSHACK IRIN 



Circle 329 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 421 



Slot(s) Program 

(operating system use) 

1 DATABASE 

2-6 (operating system use) 

7 INITVARS 

8 ENTERDATA 

9 SEARCH 
10-19 (empty) 

20 TURTLEGRAPHICS 

21 TURTLEGRAPHICS (data seg) 

22 APPLESTUFF 
23-28 (empty) 

29 TRANSCEND 

30 LONGINTIO 

31 PASCALIO 

Table 1: Run-time segment table for a 
hypothetical database program. 



tionary. If the executing program uses 
any intrinsic units — as declared by a 
USES statement — then segment infor- 
mation from both the SYSTEM.LI- 
BRARY's segment dictionary and 
your program's segment dictionary is 
read into the run-time segment table 
for use during execution. Intrinsic 
units are similar to libraries of built-in 
functions or procedures that may be 
shared by many programs but whose 
code is not inserted into the executing 
program's code file. 

If you specify a regular unit, you 
must manually link it, using the 
Linker, to your program after it is 
compiled and before it is run. Using 
an intrinsic unit instead of a regular 
unit saves space in the program's code 
file on disk and saves you this 
task — the linking is done automati- 
cally if the units reside in the 
SYSTEM.LIBRARY. Why, then, you 
may be wondering, would anyone 
use regular units? 

If the intrinsic units used in a pro- 
gram are your own creations, your 
program will not run on any other 
Apple Pascal system without install- 
ing these same units in that system's 
SYSTEM.LIBRARY. But if the units 
were created as regular units, the pro- 
gram is portable because the code for 
the unit resides in the program code 
file. 

(Some intrinsic units occupy two 
slots in the segment dictionary of the 
SYSTEM.LIBRARY code file and 
subsequently in the run-time segment 
table. For example, intrinsic unit 



Listing 2: The no-load option is specified in the body of the main program (*$N+ *). 
Using the resident option (*$R APPLESTUFF*) keeps the unit containing the RANDOM 
function, which is called by RAND, in memory. In the procedure NTABLE, 
TRANSCEND, which contains the LOG function, is swapped in and out of memory on 
every function call. 

(**S+*> <: must use swapping option when compiling USES units statements > 

PROGRAM UNITDEMO; 

USES APPLESTUFF, TRANSCEND; t must be first statement > 

PROCEDURE RANDOMN; 

VAR low, hi, I: INTEGER; 

A: ARRAYC1..10D OF INTEGER; 

FUNCTION RAND<L,H: INTEGER) : INTEGER; 
VAR max,C,D: INTEGER; 

BEGIN 

RAND:=0; 

IF <L>H) OR (L<=0) THEN EXIT(RAND); C error condition > 

IF L=H THEN RAND:=L 

ELSE BEGIN 

C:=H-L+1; max:=(MAXINT-H+L) DIV C+l; 
max : -max* (H-L) + (max— 1); 
REPEAT D:=RANDOM UNTIL D<=max; 
RAND:=L+D MOD C 
END 
END; I end rand... from p 102 language ref manual > 

BEGIN 

(*«R APPLESTUFF *) < keeps unit APPLESTUFF in memory 
during this procedure > 

WRITELN CENTER RANGE OF RANDOM NUMBERS TO GENERATE:'); 

WRITECENTER low: '); READLN(low); 

WRITE CENTER hi: '); READLN(hi); 

FOR I:=l TO 10 DO 

BEGIN ACI]:=RAND(low.hi ) ; WRITE (AC I 3 : 5) END: 

WRITELN; WRITELN 
END; 

PROCEDURE NTABLE; 

VAR realnum, logbase2, nlogn, square: REAL: 

precision, col width, i : INTEGER; 
BEGIN 

I use resident option here to keep TRANSCEND in memory, otherwise this 
{ unit will be reloaded 20 times in loop & disk runs continuously 1 

precision:-l ; 
colwidth:=10; 

WRITECN' :colwidth, 'N**2' :colwidth, ' L0G2 N' :colwidth) ; 
WRITE CN L0G2 N' : col width) ; WRITELN; 
FOR i:=l TO 20 DO 
BEGIN 

realnum:=i*10; logbase2: =LOG (realnum) /LOG (2) ; 

square: =real numtreal nun) nl ogn : =real numtl ogbase2; 
WRITE (real num: col wi dth : preci si on , square: col wi dth : preci si on) ; 
WR ITE ( 1 ogbase2: colwidth:precision,nlogn:colwidth: preci si on ) ; 
WRITELN 
END 
END; 

BEGIN 

(**N+«) t noload option: keeps units out of memory until used > 

RANDOMN; NTABLE { calls to two procedures > 
END. 



TURTLEGRAPHICS occupies two 
slots, one for its code segment and the 
other for its associated data segment.) 
A unit can interact with code out- 
side it only through identifiers 
(variables, procedures, and func- 
tions) declared in its interface part. 
Identifiers declared there are con- 
sidered global identifiers and occupy 
space in memory until the entire pro- 
gram is finished. If a unit uses any 
variables of type FILE, they must be 



declared within the unit's interface 
section even if they are referenced 
only within the implementation part 
of the unit (a part not accessible to the 
main program except through inter- 
face identifiers). 

Thus, a file buffer of approximate- 
ly 600 bytes will remain allocated 
throughout execution of your pro- 
gram. If memory space needs to be 
conserved, change units using 
variables of type FILE into segment 



422 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



MksoAqq 

"THE RIGHT COMPUTER STORE 
FRANCHISE FOR ME!" 

"They wanted us to succeed and they acted like it!" 

"At our West Palm Beach, Florida, MicroAge Computer Store, we sell 
primarily to business people, professionals and corporate accounts. Being 
part of the MicroAge Computer Store network gave us the knowledge, 
support and name recognition we found to be essential to our success. Plus, 
during our first year and a half, MicroAge developed a relationship with us 
that helped us bypass potential mistakes and grow." 

"Since joining MicroAge, our store size has doubled and our staff has 
quadrupled. Today our store has expanded from 1 ,800 square feet to 3,700 
square feet, while our staff grew from 3 people to 1 3 people. Our growth 
with MicroAge has been beyond my expectations." 

"Am I satisfied with my MicroAge franchise. . .absolutelyl" 



/7S^vW IAJ d/mAe^i 



Lonny Warsfiaw 
President 



*L^ 



To build your own professional computer sales 
organization with MicroAge write to: 

/MicroAge 

co/MPUTer STores 

Corporate Center 
1457 West Alameda * Tempe, Arizona 85282 

(602)968-3168 






MicroAge franchisee Lonny Warshaw shown with Jelevideo & Mtos products ■ 



Circle 260 on inquiry card. 



procedures so that the file buffer 
space will be deallocated when the 
segment procedure finishes executing. 
The no-load Compiler option 
(*$N + *) placed at the beginning of 
the main program body after the 
BEGIN allows units to be treated ex- 
actly like segment procedures, which 
are loaded into memory only when 
called. Regard this option as a mixed 
blessing because units usually consist 
of frequently used routines or 
routines that are used in many dif- 
ferent programs (i.e., compiled and 
installed in a library for use by other 
programs). Once the no-load option 
is used, it applies to all units used 
within one program, and it may cause 
excessive swapping of unit segments 
in and out of memory. 

The program given in listing 2 il- 
lustrates problems created by using the 
no-load option without also using the 
resident option. The no-load option is 
inserted at the beginning of the main 
program so that units will be loaded 
only when needed, thus conserving 
memory space in return for increased 
execution time. APPLESTUFF, the 
first intrinsic unit declared, contains 
the random-number generator RAN- 
DOM, which the procedure RAN- 
DOMN uses to produce 10 random 
numbers in the range (low, high) that 
you set. TRANSCEND, the other in- 
trinsic unit, contains the LOG func- 
tion, which is used by procedure 
NT ABLE to produce a table contain- 
ing a number N, its square, its log base 
2, and the number multiplied by its log 
base 2. 

The resident option (*$R 
APPLESTUFF*) is placed at the 
beginning of RANDOMN (after the 
BEGIN) so that unit APPLESTUFF 
will remain in memory throughout 
execution of procedure RANDOMN. 
However, the resident option is not 
used in procedure NTABLE, causing 
the disk drive to run continuously 
while NTABLE is executing because it 
is continually reloading unit segment 
TRANSCEND. The resident option 
should be used at the beginning of 
NTABLE just as it is in the 
RANDOMN procedure when the no- 
load option is implemented. Thus, 
these options are frequently used 
together if the program incorporates 



Listing 3: The include-file option allows compilation of programs too large to fit into 
the Editor. 

<*$S-*-*> ( compiler swapping option > 
PROGRAM DATABASE; 



TYPE 
VAR . 



(**I APPLE2: ENTER. TEXT *) 

t file that holds enterdata and other routines J 

(**I APPLE2: SEARCH. TEXT *) 

{ file that holds search an rest of procedures > 

BEGIN 

C main program goes here > 
END. 



more than one unit. Under ordinary 
circumstances, neither is necessary 
until all other ways to conserve 
memory are exhausted. (Details of 
these options are found in the Apple 
Pascal Language Reference Manual 
[Cupertino, CA: Apple Computer Inc., 
1980], chapter 4 and the addendum.) 

Compiler and 
Command-Level Options 

There are a few additional methods 
of squeezing more from the available 
memory. By typing "S" from the high- 
est command level, you can provide 
about 1100 more words (2200 bytes) 
of space for a code file at execution 
time. Actually, the "S" toggles the 
swapping option, which specifies 
whether part of SYSTEM.PASCAL 
will be swapped in and out of memory 
as needed. When the system is booted, 
this swapping option is automatically 
set to off. 

The swapping option available 
from the command level also allows 
larger text files to be used in the 
Editor. Without this option, the max- 
imum size file the Editor can handle 
without buffer overflow is about 36 
blocks; with swapping on, about 40 
blocks. (A block contains 512 bytes.) 

The Compiler option (*$S + *), 
where S stands for swapping, has al- 
ready been mentioned in connection 
with compiling programs that use 
units. This option slows the compila- 
tion process but allows the extra 
memory needed for symbol-table 
generation when very large programs 
are compiled. Have you ever com- 
piled a program that appeared to 
blow up in the middle of the compil- 
ing process (i.e., the screen became 



filled with inverse, normal, and 
flashing characters or produced a 
stack-overflow message during com- 
pilation)? The "S" swapping option 
can correct this problem (see the first 
line in listings 2 and 3). Even more 
swapping will be done by specifying 
(*$S+ + *) at the beginning of a pro- 
gram text file; you'll notice an appro- 
priate decrease in speed of compila- 
tion. 

The include-file option, (*$I 
filename*), enables compilation of 
programs too large to fit in the 
Editor. The size of text file that the 
Editor can handle is limited. You can, 
however, have several text files in one 
program by using the include-file op- 
tion(s) to instruct the Compiler to in- 
sert the text file named in the option 
into the compilation process at that 
point, as illustrated in listing 3. 

Summary 

Although it is quite useful, knowl- 
edge of how to use regular or intrinsic 
units is not required in order to enjoy 
the benefits of segmentation. These 
techniques, along with the Compiler 
and command-level options allow not 
only maximum use of internal mem- 
ory but also maximum use of the 
limited amount of secondary storage 
on disk. Even with an increase in 
main memory, as in the Apple III, 
memory conservation soon becomes 
necessary as programmers think of 
bigger and better programs. ■ 

About the Author 

Jill David (221 Woodcrest, Richardson, TX 
75080) has a master's degree in computer science 
from the University of Texas at Dallas. She 
currently teaches Pascal programming there. 



424 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Alf£» FORMULA INTERNATIONAL INC. «*/ 

fc^~ ^tk 12603 Crenshaw Blvd.. Dept. B, Hawthorne, CA 90250 ^"^ 

For information (213) 973-1921 • Orders Only (outside Calif.) (800) 672-8758 



.•S : ':-o- 





pinecom 

The Alternative! The Compatible! 
The Affordable! 64K Color Computer Kit! 



Copyright Problem Free 

FEATURES: 

* Fully compatible with Apple® II + 

* Singleboard for easy assembly 
fa ft m rnn^^^J^ * Popular 6502 MPU for large 
Xf%AKUU ^^^^ amount of software 
▼V* *r EACH * Game paddle connector on both 

sides of case 

* Upper/lower case 

Easy to assemble! All components are clearly silk-screened on the high quality double-sided mother board. 
All integrated circuits, IC sockets, peripheral connectors, keyboard, switching power supply and the pro- 
fessional high impact plaStIC CaSe are inClUded. -Pinecom is a trade mark of Pineapple Computer Products (HK) Lid. 



(please add 5% shipping and handling) 
DEALERS INQUIRIES INVITED! 



* Built in 2-watt amplifier for realistic 
sound effect with volume control 

* 8 on board peripheral connectors 
for expansion 

* 14 key numeric key pad 

* 5-amp switching power supply 

* Auto repeat 



yiQTJS) 



Wk" DISC DRIVE FROM @USJB 

100% Made in USA 100% Apple and Pincom Compatible 
50% Faster Seeking Time Than Apple Disk II Drive! 

rs 

• 1 Year Full Warranty 

• 40 Tracks 

• One of the Most Quiet Drives 

• Color and Shape same as the 
Disk II Drive 

Disk Drive $285.00 

Controller Card $ 75.00 

Controller Card with 13 Sector, 16 Sector Auto Select $ 85.00 




The APPLE II LOOKALIKE COMPUTER CASE 

Made with high impact plastic. '.y^ ~^^ 

Color and shape are 
compatible with the APPLE II 




Model: APII 

Keyboard not included with this price! 



6502 CPU MOTHER BOARD 

• 48K on board RAM (41 16) 

• 1 2K on board ROM (271 6) 

• Upper/lower case 

• Composite-video output 

• Apple II alternative 

• Size: MS" x 8 1 / 2 " 

P.C Board Only $99.00 ea. 

Complete Component Pack (No ROMs) $175.00 

GUARANTEED TO WORK! BUILD IT IN 2 HOURS! 




■* *■> Big Savings On Peripheral Cards <■ <■ ¥ 

Buy them in kit form. 
All cards APPLE II and PINEAPPLE compatible. 



80 column card kit $120.00 

Z80 CP/M card kit $11 0.00 

16K RAM card kit $49.50 

RS232 Interface card kit. . . . $95.00 
16K RAM card (cable-less) kit $59.50 



EPR0M writer card assembled 
(For 2708,2716,2732,2764,2532) $89.50 

Printer interface card kit (For Epson or Oki) $69.50 
New disk controller card kit 
(3.2, 3 3 auto select) $69.50 



HEAVY DUTY SWITCHING POWER SUPPLY 
for Apple II, AP-II and Pinecom Computers 



+5V at 5.0 Amp 
+12Vat2.5Amp 

-5V at 0.5 Amp 
-12V at 0.5 Amp 
Size and mounting holes are same 
as the ones used in the Apple 




Model: THB-43H 



$145.00 ea. 



APPLE II+ COMPATIBLE KEYBOARD 

• LSI keyboard decoder • Full ASCII code output 

• Upper/lower case function • N-key rollover function 

• LED ON/OFF indicator 




LKB-3600-N 

Keyboard Case 
Keyboard Only $99.00 EA. Plastic Case $35.00 EA. 




MICRO-II CASE 

Made with ABS Plastic 

Same size as the Apple II, with Numeric 

Key-Pad and Upper/Lower Case. 

$250.00 ea. 

Keyboard Included 



SEND ONE DOLLAR 
FOR OUR DETAIL CATALOG 



Shipping & Handling Charges 

Under $50.00 Under $50.00 

Purchase Purchase 



Inside California 
Outside Calif, (inc 
Overseas 



tico & Canada) 



Minimum Order $10.0O/Calif. Residents 



add 6.5% Sales Tax. Phone Orders Accepted 
on VISA or MC ONLY. NOC.O.D.'s. Prices sub- 
ject to change without notice. 



STORE HOURS 

MON-FRI— 10-7 

SAT— 10-6 



•Apple and Apple II are the trademark ot APPLE COMPUTERS, INC. 
Dealer inquiries, Circle 169 All others, Circle 170 



WHY DEC AND INTEL 

CHOSE THE MARK WILLIAMS 

C-COMPILER. 



DEC and INTEL wanted the best C technology avail- 
able, with excellent code density, supporting the full C 
language and their specific operating environments- 
all at a competitive price. 

They found it all at Mark Williams. 



WHY YOU SHOULD 

CHOOSE THE MARK WILLIAMS 

C-COMPILER. 



Our C-compiler supports the dominant 16-bit micro- 
computers -68000, PDP-llf Z8000, 8086-with a proven 
reliable, high-technology product. We are shipping 
versions of C for a large number of environments includ- 
ing CP/M* and PC DOS? Both cross and native compilers 
are available. 

Call us for the distributor nearest you. OEM's should 
contact us directly about their specific requirements. 

Mark Williams Company 

1430 West Wrightwood, Chicago, Illinois 60614, 

312/472-6659 




Mark 

Williams 

Company 



*PDP-1 1 is a trademark of Digital Equipment Corporation. 

*CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research Corporation. 

*PC-DOS is a trademark of IBM. Circle 486 on Inquiry card. 



COHERENT™ IS SUPERIOR TO UNIX* 

AND IT'S AVAILABLE TODAY 

ON THE IBM PC. 



Mark Williams Company hasn't just taken a mini-computer 
operating system, like UNIX, and ported it to the PC. We 
wrote COHERENT ourselves. We were able to bring UNIX 
capability to the PC with the PC in mind, making it the most 
efficient personal computer work station available at an 
unbelievable price. 

For the first time you get a multi-user, multitasking operating 
system on your IBM PC. Because COHERENT is UNIX- 
compatible, UNIX software will run on the PC under 
COHERENT. 

The software system includes a C-compiler and over 100 utili- 
ties, all for $500. Similar environments cost thousands more. 

COHERENT on the IBM PC requires a hard disk and 256K 
memory. It's available on the IBM XT, and Tecmar, Davong 
and Corvus hard disks. 

Available now. For additional information, call or write, 

Mark Williams Company 

1430 West Wrightwood, Chicago, Illinois 60614 

312/472-6659 




Mark 

Williams 

Company 



COHERENT is a trademark of Mark Williams Company. 

*UNIX is as trademark of Bell Laboratories. Circle 487 On Inquiry card. 



Control Your Environment 
with the Atari 400/800 

A combination of hardware and software enables your 
computer to monitor and influence your surroundings. 



Imagine that your computer turns 
on the lights and flashes a welcoming 
message on its display screen the in- 
stant you walk into a room. It's not a 
far-off possibility. With the right 
equipment, your Atari 400 or 800 can 
sense your (or anyone's) presence and 
control AC-powered devices such as 
lamps, household appliances, and 
even burglar alarms. 



Some Software Techniques 

A great deal of information can be 
determined about the world by sim- 




Photo 1: The MOC3031 is the heart and 
brains of the solid-state relay described in 
the text. Don't let its small size fool you; it 
can protect a computer from voltage 
spikes up to 7500 V. It costs about $2 
from any Motorola distributor. 



by David Alan Hayes 

ply monitoring switches. An open 
switch on a window could indicate 
that a thief is entering your home. A 
closed switch might indicate that 
someone is standing on a concealed 
switch mat (like those at supermarket 
exits). Wouldn't it be nice if a lamp 
came on automatically if a light- 
sensitive switch indicated that room 
lighting was too dim? An electronic 
sound switch could monitor a sleep- 
ing baby. If you do the work your- 
self, you can install an elaborate 
system of switches throughout your 
home for a few hundred dollars. You 
can then turn your Atari computer in- 
to a powerful energy-management 
and burglar-alarm system. All of this 
can be done through the peripheral 
interface adapter (PIA) in your Atari 
computer. 

The PIA (figure 1) is a large-scale 
integrated circuit whose primary 
function in the Atari is to link the joy- 
stick to the computer. It monitors the 
four normally open switches that in- 
dicate the direction the joystick has 
been tilted (see figure 2 and listing 1). 

The PIA monitors the joysticks in- 
put via two 8-bit ports labeled 
PORTA and PORTB. Because these 
ports are bidirectional, they can also 
be used to set switches. PORTA and 
PORTB can be reset as outputs easily 



via the PIA's two 8-bit data-direction 
registers (DDRA and DDRB). Placing 
a in a bit position in DDRA or 
DDRB causes the corresponding con- 
troller jack pin to act as an input; a 1 
causes it to act as an output (figure 2). 
DDRA has the same address as 
PORTA (hexadecimal D300, decimal 
54016). Similarly, DDRB has the 
same address as PORTB (hexadeci- 
mal D301, decimal 54017). Therefore, 
a control program has to tell the PIA 
which register it wishes to address 
before addressing 54016 or 54017. 
The program can do this by using two 




Photo 2: The chassis of the four-channel 
SSR prototype the author built contains a 
control cable, which plugs into any Atari 
400/800 controller jack and a power cord. 



428 July 1983 © BYTE Publication! Inc 







The Well-Tempered Cross-Assembler 



Before Johann Sebastian Bach developed 
a new method of tuning, you had to 
change instruments practically every time 
you wanted to change keys. Very difficult. 

Before Avocet introduced its family of 
cross-assemblers, developing micro-pro- 
cessor software was much the same. You 
needed a separate development system 
for practically every type of processor. 
Very difficult and very expensive. 

But with Avocet's cross-assemblers, a 
single computer can develop software for 
virtually any microprocessor! Does that 
put us in a league with Bach? You decide 

Development Tools That Work 

Avocet cross-assemblers are fast, reliable 
and user-proven in over 3 years of actual 
use. Ask NASA, IBM, XEROX or the hun- 
dreds of other organizations that use them . 
Every time you see a new microprocessor- 
based product, there's a good chance it 
was developed with Avocet cross- 
assemblers. 

Avocet cross-assemblers are easy to use. 
They run on any computer with CP/M* 
and process assembly language for the 
most popular microprocessor families. 



XASM05 . 


. . . 6805 \ 




XASM09 . 


... 6809 \ 




XASM18 . 


... 1802 N 




XASM48 . 


... 8048/8041 




XASM51 . 


... 8051 


$200 


XASM65 . 


... 6502 


each 


XASM68 . 


... 6800/01 




XASMF8 . 


...F8/3870 / 




XASMZ8 . 


...Z8 / 




XASM400. 


. . COP400/ 




XASM75 . 


... NEC 7500 


$500 



(Coming soon: XASM68K .... 68000) 



Turn Your Computer Into A 
Complete Development System 

Of course, there's more. Avocet has the 
tools you need from start to finish to enter, 
assemble and test your software and finally 
castitinEPROM: 

Text Editor VEDIT -- full-screen text edi- 
tor by CompuView. Makes source code 
entry a snap. Full-screen text editing, plus 
TECO-like macro facility for repetitive 
tasks. Pre-configured for over 40 terminals 
and personal computers as well as in user- 
configurable form. 

CP/M-80 version $150 

CP/M-86 or MDOS version $195 

(when ordered with any Avocet product) 

ROM Simulator - ROMSIM by Inner Ac- 
cess eliminates need to erase and 
reprogram EPROM. Installed in an S-100 
host, ROMSIM substitutes RAM for 
EPROM in external target system. 16K 
memory can be configured to simulate the 
2708, 2758, 2716, 2516, 2732, 2532, 
2764, 2564 in either byte or word 
organization. Avocet's configurable driver 
makes loading of HEX or COM files fast 
and easy. 

From $495 depending on cabling and 
RAM installed. 

EPROM Programmer Model 7128 
EPROM Programmer by GTek programs 
most EPROMS without the need for per- 
sonality modules. Self-contained power 
supply ... accepts ASCII commands and 
data from any computer through RS 232 
serial interface. Cross-assembler hex ob- 
ject files can be down-loaded directly. 
Commands include verify and read, as 
well as partial programming. 



PROM types supported: 2508, 2758, 
2516, 2716, 2532, 2732, 2732A, 
27C32, MCM8766, 2564, 2764, 27C64, 
27128, 8748, 8741, 8749, 8742, 8751, 
8755, plus Seeq and Xicor EEPROMS. 

(Upgrade kits will be available for new 
PROM types as they are introduced.) 

Programmer $389 

Options include: 

Software Driver Package $ 30 

RS 232 Cable $ 30 

8748 family socket adaptor $ 98 

8751 family socket adaptor $174 

Call Us 

If you're thinking about development sys- 
tems, call us for some straight talk. If we 
don't have what you need, we'll help you 
find out who does. If you like, we'll even 
talk about Bach. 



VISA and Mastercard accepted All popular disc formats now 
available -- please specify Prices do not include shipping and 
handling - call for exact quotes OEM INQUIRIES INVITED 



'Trademark of Digital Research 



AVOCET jf~ 
SYSTEMS INC. 

DEPT. 783-B 

804 SOUTH STATE STREET 
DOVER, DELAWARE 19901 
302-734-0151 TLX 467210 



Circle 40 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 429 



PORT A 





CONTROLLER 


JACKS PIN 7 




__^,PIN 1 


CONTROLLER 
JACK 1 


^^^ PIN 2 
^^^ PIN 3 




^~~"PIN 4 




^^-PIN 1 


CONTROLLER 
JACK 2 


-^^^ PIN 2 

^^^ PIN 3 




^^PIN 4 




^^PIN 1 


CONTROLLER 
JACK 3 


-^"^ PIN 2 

>^ PIN 3 




^^^PIN 4 




PIN 1 


CONTROLLER 
JACK 4 


^--''PIN 2 
"N^^ PIN 3 




^^ PIN 4 



ALL CONTROLLER JACKS PIN 8 




Figure 1: The peripheral interface adapter. Pins 2 through 17 connect indirectly through 
a 220-ohm resistor to the controller jack pins shown. These pins can be used as input or 
output. 



f Ol 02 03 04 05^ 
V 06 07. 08 09 / 



Figure 2a: Subminiature D-type jack on Atari chassis for joystick. 




1010 (10L 



TOP 



1110(14) 

i > 



„0110(6) 



1011 (ll)-« 1111 »»-0111(7) 



1001 (9) 



♦ 
1101 (13) 



0101 (5) 



Figure 2b: Joystick positions and their corresponding digital codes (decimal value in 
parentheses). 



PIN #: 


4 


3 


2 


1 


4 


3 


2 


1 




4 


3 


2 1 


4 


3 


2 


1 


BIT#: 


7 


6 


5 


4 


3 


2 


1 







7 


6 


5 | 4 


3 


2 


1 







^ 


J \ 


J 




^ 






JACK #: 




2 


=OR 


rA 


540 


] 
16) 








t 


PORTB 


(54 


017 


1 





Figure 2c: I/O ports used to access joysticks. 



other 8-bit registers called Port A 
Control (PACTL, 54018) and Port B 
Control (PBCTL, 54019). Setting bit 2 
of these registers to 1 causes the com- 
puter to address PORTA or PORTB. 
All other bits of PACTL and PBCTL 
should be left as the operating system 
set them up. Listing 2 demonstrates 
how to set up pins 1 through 4 of con- 
troller jack 1 (farthest left) as an out- 
put. These pins can control up to four 
solid-state relays. It also sets up pins 1 
through 4 of controller jacks 2, 3, and 
4 as inputs to monitor up to 12 
switches. 

The Hardware Problem 

How can a computer, which oper- 
ates on little power, control the raw 
energy from electrical outlets without 
endangering people and machines? 
An integrated circuit (IC) called an 
optoisolator offers a surprisingly sim- 
ple and inexpensive solution. The IC 
is so named because its input is elec- 
trically isolated from its output. This 
circuit uses low-level computer 
signals to drive an LED (light- 
emitting diode) that in turn controls a 
solid-state relay (triac). 

Motorola has developed an opto- 
isolator, called the MOC3031, that 
will protect a computer from power- 
line transients as high as 7500 volts 
(V). In addition, the MOC3031 has a 
zero-crossing switch that switches 
power on or off only when the 
power-line voltage is at ground 
potential (figure 3). This prevents the 
electromagnetic interference (EMI) 
that usually occurs whenever elec- 
trical power is turned on or off rapid- 
ly. EMI can cause snow-storm effects 
on a video screen and popping sounds 
from speakers. It may even cause 
your computer to malfunction. 

Figure 4 shows a typical solid- 
state relay circuit employing an 
MOC3031. You should consider three 
important specifications when select- 
ing a triac for the circuit (see table 1). 
The repetitive peak off-state voltage 
(V DROM ) specifies the amount of volt- 
age that the triac will block when 
switched off. For home power con- 
trol, V DROM must be greater than 200 
V. 

The triac's on-state RMS (root 
mean square) current (I Q ) specifies the 



430 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



The ABM-83 

delivers a lot more 

features for a 

lot less 







money 
•300 s9 

LESS 



$995 



The ABM-83 is truly your best choice for 

a versatile and highly productive business terminal that 

costs $300.00 less than the competition. 




: 



Why pay more to get the code compatibility of a 
TVI 920 or 925 when you have a better choice... 
the ABM-83! 

Not only does the ABM-83 offer far more features 
essential in day-to-day data entry and word pro- 
cessing tasks than the 920 or 925, but the ABM-83 
provides designed-in end-user ergonomics better 
suited for a highly productive business environ- 
ment. Our crisper, high resolution display 
dramatically reduces eye fatigue and our humanly 
engineered keyboard with sculptured keys provides 
for greater operator ease and productivity. Standard 





with the ABM-83 are 24 user-programmable func- 
tion keys (non-volatile memory optional). 

In addition to the ABM-83 shown, ask about the 
unique ABM-85H that offers user selectable embed- 
ded or non-embedded attributes, 93 graphics and 4 
international character sets: all set-ups, 16 pro- 
grammable function keys and programmable 
answerback stored in non-volatile memory; up to 
three pages of additional display (optional), as well 
as all of the great advantages of the ABM-83. 
(Third party service by RCA.) 






uUUULf\°AJU 



(408) 727-1510 

2225 I Martin Avenue • Santa Clara, CA 95050 







DISTRIBUTORS 






NEW ENGLAND 


GEORGIA 


INDIANA 


TEXAS 


UTAH 


NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 


ACCESS COMPUTER SYSTEMS 


COMPUTER ENTERPRISES 


LOGICAL SOLUTIONS 


T.C.C. 


I. B.C. INC. 


LEAR DATA 


(617)237-7743 


(404) 256-9010 


(219)484-3888 


(214) 783-9330 


(801)621-2294 


(707)252-7139 


NEW YORWNEW JERSEY 


ELECTRONIC GADGETS 


MICHIGAN 


(713)890-4005 


ARIZONA 


RENAISSANCE TECHNOLOGY 


EASTERN OATA SYSTEMS 


(404) 447-1350 


ROBERT MILSK CO. 


MINNESOTA 


DATA VIDEO INC. 


(415)676-5757 


(609) 983-5100 


FLORIDA 


(313) 354-3310 


H.M.R. INC. 


(602) 979-7500 


AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL 


PENNSYLVANIA 


KIMTRON SOUTHEAST 


MISSOURI/KANSAS 


(612)831-7400 


WASHINGTON 


DISTRIBUTORS 


PROMARK 


(305) 788-3666 


MICRO SYSTEMS LI O. 


TONKA TIME SHARE 


SEATTLE TELECOM & DATA 


SANTA CLARA 


(215)828-5780 


OHIO 


(816) 737-0232 


(612)472-7186 


(206) 883-8440 


(408)727-1547 


WASHINGTON D.C. 


BENCHMARK SALES & 


MONTANA 


A.I.D. INC. 


OREGON 


QUALITY PERIPHERALS, INC. 


E.M.A. 


MARKETING 


ADDCO OFFICE SYSTEMS 


(612)561-1645 


RENAISSANCE TECHNOLOGY (408)559-3882 


(301)881-5300 


(614)861-2070 


(406) 259-9467 




(503) 653-8745 








Circle 230 on inquiry card. 





LOS ANGELES 

EXXNET 

(213)700-1655 

LOGICAL SOLUTIONS 

(213)670-8963 

AMERICAN 

INTERNATIONAL 

DISTRIBUTORS 

(213)673-4308 

Outside California 

(800) 421- 1532 



ANALOG *# DIGITAL 
DIGITAL** ANALOG 

CONVERSION MODULES 

SOFTWARE 
CAIN CONTROL 



sord test S-100 : u 

able high and low inputs 



programmable gain instrumentation 
■ [ . 2 to 15 khz 



12-bit sample and hold amplifier 
ential i analog to digital 



For additional details about the AD-100-4 and other 
fine California Data corporation 100% individually 
tested, high reliability products, circle the reader 
service card number below or for faster response 
write or call us. 

CALIFORNIA DATA 
CORPORATION 

3475 Old Conejo Road. Suite C 10 
Newbury Park, CA 91320 

(805) 498-3651 



Circle 64 on Inquiry card. 



Sprint 68 
Microcomputer 




CONTROL COMPUTER 
DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM 

6800 MPU, serial I/O. 48K RAM. dual 8" 
drives. WIZRD multitasking DOS. editor, 
assembler, 16K BASIC, all for $3949. 

OPTIONS 

C, PL/W, PASCAL, FORTRAN, EROM pro- 
grammer, analog I/O, parallel I/O, 488 
GPIB interface, CMOS RAM/battery, power 
fail detect/power on reset 



Lafayette. IN 47904 



Circle 445 on inquiry card. 



l ■■■■■■** -j (An extensive variety of interes 

m-each 




■kJEtJU/ll The Apple users group 
■™"V" software library bonanza 
at truly affordable prices. For the first time 
enjoy your Apple to its fullest capacity 
using specially packed disks with over 60 
outstanding programs each. Not available 
from any other source! 

• Applesoft • 3.3 DOS 



Business 
Games 



offers 
ety of interesting, 
useful and entertaining programs 
indispensable to the serious computerist 
ncluding: 

Educational • Graphics 

Music • Science 

Utilities • Data Base • Finance 

Library disks 1 , 2 & 3 are mixed categories and new 
disks 4 (Games), 5 (Utilities), 6 (Graphics) & 7 (Integer) 
at $59.95each. Why pay more? 

Order direct from this ad and Save up to $136. 
Buy disk library package 1, 2 & 3 and get a 
special bonus disk FREE — over 260 programs 
for $179.95 + shipping. For best value, get 
all 8 disks for $349, postage prepaid, for over 
530 of our best programs at 651 each! 
Call now toll free: 1-800-327-8664 
Florida: 1-305-987-8665 

6400 Hayes St. ■'■ i U jf^] VISA 

Hollywood, FL 33024 



Circle 32 on Inquiry card. 



PINS 1-4) CONTROL REGISTER. 
PINS 1-4) CONTROL REGISTER. 



START VALUE FOR DDRA 
TO START VALUE 
BE ADDRESSED SINCE BIT 2 = O 

START VALUE FOR DDRB 
TO START VALUE 

■(THIS MEANS THAT ALL PINS ARE SETUP 



Listing 1: This program reads the joystick controller jacks directly through the PIA. 



REM LISTING 1 

10 DIM DIRECTION* (2) : REM DIMENSION STRING 

20 REM PIA READ DEMONSTRATION 

25 REM USING JOYSTICK. 

30 REM YOU CAN SAVE SOME TYPING IF YOU 

40 REM LEAVE OUT THE REM COMMENTS. 

50 ? " } " : REM CLEAR SCREEN 

60 PACTL=54018:REM PORT A <JS PORTS 1 8< 2, 

70 PBCTL=54019:REM PORT B <JS PORTS 3 Sc 4, 

SO P0RTA=54O16:REM PORT A I/O REGISTER 

90 P0RTB=54017:REM PORT B I/O REGISTER 

100 DDRA=PORTA:REM 0=INPUT. l=OUTPUT FOR EACH OF EIGHT BITS IN PORT A. 

110 DDRB=PORTB:REM 0= INPUT. 1=0UTPUT FOR EACH OF EIGHT BITS IN PORT B. 

115 ? "OS INITIALIZED VALUES":? 

120 ? "PACTL= "1 PEEK ( PACTL ): REM PRINT START VALUE FOR PACTL 

130 ? "PBCTL= "; PEEK ( PBCTL ): REM PRINT START VALUE FOR PBCTL 

140 POKE PACTL, 56:REM- ALLOWS DDRA TO BE ADDRESSED SINCE BIT 2 ■ O 

150 ? "DDRA= "; PEEK (DDRA) : REM PRINT 

160 POKE PACTL, 60: REM SET PACTL BACK 

170 POKE PBCTL, 56: REM ALLOWS DDRB TO 

180 ? "DDRB= " i PEEK (DDRB) : REM PRINT 

190 POKE PBCTL, 60: REM SET PBCTL BACK 

200 ? "NOTICE THAT BOTH DDRA/B ARE ZERO" 

AS INPUT BY THE OS. ) " 

210 ? :? " USE ONLY ONE JOYSTICK" 

215 OLDSTICKA=-l:OLDSTICKB=-l:REM SET UP DUMMY VARIABLES 

220 FINDSTICKA=230:REM INITIALIZE LINENUMBER VARIABLE 

230 STICKA=PEEK (PORTA) : REM GET VALUE AT PORT A FROM PIA 

240 IF STICKA=OLDSTICKA THEN GOTO FINDSTICKA: REM GET STICKA VALUE UNTIL STICKA V 

ALUE CHANGES 

250 FINDPORT=1000:REM FIND PORT SUBROUTINE NUMBER 

260 IF STICKA<255 THEN GOSUB FINDPORT:REM FIND THE INPUT PORT # IF STICKA INPUT 

FOUND 

270 FINDDIRECTION=2000:REM FIND DIRECTION OF JS TILT SUBROUTINE LINE NUMBER 

2B0 IF STICKA<255 THEN GOSUB FINDDIRECTION: REM FIND DIRECTION OF JS TILT IF STIC 

KA INPUT FOUND 

290 FINDSTICKB=340:REM INITIALIZE FINDSTICKB LINE NUMBER VARIABLE 

295 OLDSTICKA=STICKA:REM SET UP OLD STICKA VALUE 

300 IF STICKA=255 THEN 0LDSTICKA=-1 : GOTO FINDSTICKB: REM CHECK PORT B INPUT 

310 ? :? "PORTA ■ ";STICKA, "JS PORT * "; PORT, "DIRECTION IS "; DIRECTION*: REM PRIN 

T INFORMATION FROM PIA 

320 OLDSTICKA=STICKA:REM OLD STICK WILL BE USED TO SEE IF STICKA INPUT HAS CHANG 

ED 

330 GOTO FINDSTICKA 

340 STICKB=PEEK(PORTB> : REM GET VALUE AT PORT B FROM PIA 

3SO IF STICKB=OLDSTICKB THEN GOTO FINDSTICKB: REM GET STICKB VALUE UNTIL STICKB V 

ALUE CHANGES 

360 FINDP0RT=10OO:REM FIND PORT # SUBROUTINE NUMBER 

370 IF STICKB<255 THEN GOSUB FINDPORT:REM FIND INPUT PORT * IF STICKB INPUT FOUN 

D 

380 FINDDIRECTI0N=2000:REM FIND DIRECTION OF JS TILT SUBROUTINE NUMBER 

390 IF STICKB<255 THEN GOSUB FINDDIRECTION: REM FIND DIRECTION OF JS TILT IF STIC 

KB INPUT FOUND 

400 OLDSTICKB=STICKB:R£M OLD STICK WILL BE USED TO SEE IF STICKB INPUT HAS CHANG 

ED 

410 IF STICKB=255 THEN OLDSTICKB=-l : GOTO FINDSTICKA: REM CHECK INPUT AT STICKA 

430 ? :? "PORTB = "I STICKB, "JS PORT # "; PORT, "DIRECTION IS " S DIRECTION*: REM PRIN 

T INFORMATION FOUND 

440 GOTO FINDSTICKB 

1000 REM FIND PORT # 

1010 IF STICKA<255 AND STICKA>240 THEN PORT=l:REM IF ANY OF LOW NIBBLE BITS IN S 

TICKA ARE O THEN PORT 1 HAS INPUT 

1020 IF STICKA<240 THEN P0RT=2:REM IF ANY OF HIGH NIBBLE BITS OF STICKA ARE TH 

EN PORT 2 HAS INPUT 

1030 IF STICKB<255 AND STICKA>240 THEN P0RT=3:REM IF ANY OF LOW NIBBLE BITS IN S 

TICKA ARE THEN PORT 3 HAS INPUT 

1040 IF STICKB<240 THEN P0RT=4:REM IF ANY OF HIGH NIBBLE BITS OF STICKB ARE TH 

EN PORT 4 HAS INPUT 



RETURN 

2000 REM FIND DIRECTION OF JS TILT (ALL NUMBERS ARE IN DECIMAL) 

2010 IF P0RT=1 OR P0RT=3 THEN 2500: REM GOTO LOW NIBBLE CHECK 
REM HIGH NIBBLE CHECK 
:>30 IF STICKA=239 OR STICKB=239 THEN DIRECTION*«"N" 
:>40 IF STICKA=223 OR STICKB=223 THEN DIRECTION*="S" 
IF STICKA=191 OR STICKB=191 THEN DIRECTION*="W" 
IF STICKA=127 OR STICKB=127 THEN DIRECTION*="E" 
IF STICKA=175 OR STICKB=175 THEN DIRECTION*="NW" : REM 175 
IF STICKA=159 OR STICKB=159 THEN DIRECT ION*="SW" 

2090 IF STICKA=111 OR STICKB=111 THEN D IRECTI ON*="NE" 

2100 IF STICKA=95 OR STICKB=95 THEN DIRECTION*="SE" 

2110 RETURN 

REM LOW NIBBLE CHECK 

IF STICKA=254 OR STICKB-234 THEN DIRECTI0N4="N" : REM 254 IS NORTH TILT 

2520 IF STICKA=253 OR STICKB=253 THEN DIRECTION*" "S" : REM 253 IS SOUTH TILT 

2530 IF STICKA=251 OR STICKB=251 THEN DIRECTION*="W" : REM 251 IS WEST TILT 
IF STICKA=247 OR STICKB=247 THEN DIRECTION*="E" : REM 247 IS EAST TILT 
IF STICKA=250 OR STICKB=250 THEN DIRECTION*="NW" : REM 250 IS NW TILT 
IF STICKA=249 OR STICKB=249 THEN DIRECTION*="SW" : REM 249 IS SW TILT 
IF STICKA=246 OR STICKB=246 THEN DIRECTION*="NE" : REM 246 IS NE TILT 
IF STICKA=245 OR STICKB=245 THEN DIRECTION*="SE" : REM 245 IS SE TILT 
RETURN 



io: 



202 



2050 
206C 
2070 
208C 



25 1 



2S4C 

2560 
2570 

258':: 



IREM 239 IS NORTH TILT 

:REM 223 IS SOUTH TILT 

:REM 191 IS WEST TILT 

:REM 127 IS EAST TILT 

IS NW TILT 

:REM 159 IS SW TILT 

:REM 111 IS NE TILT 

:REM 95 IS SE TILT 



Circle 304 on inquiry card. 



OF ALL THE THINGS 
YOU BUY, 

HOW MANY ARE 
GOOD ENOUGH TO BE 
WARRANTED 5 YEARS? 



Few disks stand the test of time. 
Because few are built to the 
precision standards or certified to 
the critical levels of Omni's 
complete line. 

Each Omni disk is rated for 1 2 
million passes without disk- 
related errors or significant wear. 
Each is certified error-free at a 
minimum of twice the error- 



threshold of your system. And 
built to exceed all industry 
specifications including those of 
ANSI, ECMA, ISO and virtually 
every drive manufacturer. So you 
can count on them for the long 
haul. We guarantee it. 
Call toll-free (800 343-7620) for 
your nearest dealer. In Mass., call 
617 799-0197. 

Omni Resources, 4 Oak Pond Ave., 
MHIbury, Mass. 01527 



Dealers. Software houses. 

Check our prices, services and 
specifications. We offer 
duplicating, formatting, private 
labeling, small minimums, fast 
delivery and copy protection 
schemes on disks for virtually 
any system. 




THE DISK GOOD ENOUGH 
TO BE WARRANTED 5 YEARS 



Listing 2: This program sets up controller jack 1 (farthest left) as an output jack and the 
others as input jacks. 



REM LISTING 2 

1 DIM A*<3) 

10 FOR ADDRESS=1536 TO 1571:READ INSTRUCTION: POKE ADDRESS, INSTRUCTION: NEXT ADDRE 

SS:REM LOAD ASM PROSRAM 

20 DATA 104, 104, 133.205, 104, 133,204, 104,5.205, 133,213, 104,5,204, 133,212,96 

25 REM LOGICAL OR ROUTINE (1536) 

30 DATA 104, 104, 133,205, 104, 133,204. 104,37,205, 133,213, 104.37,204, 133,212,96 

31 REM LOGICAL AND ROUTINE (1554) 

40 PACTL=54018:PORTA=54016:PORTB=54017:REM ASSIGN ADDRESS NUMBERS 

50 POKE PACTL,56:P0KE PORTA, 15:REM SET UP CONROLLER JACK #1 (CJ1) AS OUTPUT, DDR 

A « 0000 1111 

55 REM DDRB IS SET UP AS O, 00000000 (ALL INPUT) BY THE OPERATING SYSTEM 

60 POKE PACTL,60:REM ALLOW PORTA TO BE ADDRESSED 

70 POKE PORTA. 0: REM SET OUTPUT (CJ1, PIN 1-4) TO ZERO 

80 REM INITIALIZATION COMPLETE 



POSITION 8,5 

? "CONTROLLER JACK MENU": 

? " 1) JACK 1' 



10 

11 

120 ? " 

130 ? " 

140 ? " 

150 ? " 

160 TRAP 400:? 

170 IF JACKNUM 

180 IF JACKNUM=1 

185 GOTO 290 

190 GOSUB 1000 

210 



2) 
3) 



JACK 2' 
JACK 3' 
JACK 4' 



:? !? " WHICH JACK";: INPUT JACKNUM 

1 OR JACKNUM >4 THEN 400 

N ? "J":? "CONTROLLER JACK #1 IS THE OUTPUT JACK.":GOTO 190 



230 
240 



260 



1) 



3) 
4) 



PIN 


1 


LOW" 








PIN 


2 


LOW" 








PIN 


3 


LOW" 








PIN 


4 


LOW" 








PTION 


' ; : TRAP 


400 


INPUT 


ANS 



OUTPUT MENU" 

PIN 1 HIGH 5) 

PIN 2 HIGH 6) 

PIN 3 HIGH 7) 

PIN 4 HIGH B) 

SELECT 
270 IF ANS<1 OR ANS>8 THEN 400 

280 ON ANS GOSUB 500, 550, 600. 650. 700, 750, BOO, 850 
283 POSITION 0.3 
2B5 GOSUB 1000 

288 FOR WT-0 TO 1500: NEXT WT:GOTO 90 
290 ? "}" 

300 POSITION 2,7:7 "CONTROLLER JACK #"; JACKNUM!" IS AN INPUT JACK." 
310 IF JACKNUM=2 THEN JACKVAL=USR ( 1554, PEEK (PORTA) , 240) : GOTO 320:REM 11110000 AN 
D XXXXXXXX = JACKVAL ■ XXXXOOOO 
315 GOTO 340 

320 ? :? "THE VALUE AT JACK tl" ; JACKNUM; " IS "5JACKVAL 
330 GOTO 385 

340 IF JACKNUM=3 THEN JACKVAL=USR < 1554, PEEK (PORTB) , 15) : GOTO 320:REM JACKVAL = 00 
OOXXXX 

370 JACKVAL=USR( 1554. PEEK (PORTS) .240) : GOTO 320:REM JACKVAL = XXXXOOOO 
385 ? :? :? :? " TO CONTINUE PRESS RETURN ":TRAP 90: INPUT DUMMY 
390 GOTO 90 
4O0 ? " I " 

410 POSITION 12. 12 
420 ? "WHAT'S WRONG" 
430 FOR WT=0 TO 500: NEXT WT 
440 GOTO 90 

500 REM TURN PIN ONE ON (HIGH) 
510 VAL=USR ( 1536, PEEK (PORTA) , 1 ) 
520 POKE PORTA, VAL 
530 RETURN 

550 REM TURN PIN TWO ON (HIGH) 
560 VAL=USR( 1536, PEEK (PORTA) ,2) 
570 POKE PORTA, VAL 
580 RETURN 

600 REM TURN PIN THREE ON (HIGH) 
610 VAL=USR< 1536, PEEK (PORTA) ,4) 
620 POKE PORTA, VAL 
630 RETURN 

650 REM TURN PIN FOUR ON (HIGH) 
660 VAL=USR ( 1536. PEEK (PORTA) ,8) 
670 POKE PORTA. VAL 
6B0 RETURN 

700 REM TURN PIN ONE OFF (LOW) 
710 VAL-USR( 1554, PEEK (PORTA) ,254) 
720 POKE PORTA, VAL 
730 RETURN 

750 REM TURN PIN TWO OFF (LOW) 
760 VAL=USR( 1554, PEEK (PORTA) ,253) 
770 POKE PORTA, VAL 
7B0 RETURN 

800 REM TURN PIN THREE OFF (LOW) 
810 VAL=USR( 1554, PEEK (PORTA) ,251) 
820 POKE PORTA, VAL 
830 RETURN 

850 REM TURN PIN FOUR OFF (LOW) 
860 VAL-USR ( 1 554 , PEEK ( PORTA ) , 247 ) 
870 POKE PORTA, VAL 
B80 RETURN 

1000 JACK1VAL=USR (1554. PEEK (PORTA) , 15) : REM 00001111 AND XXXXXXXX = JACK1VAL = 00 
OOXXXX 

1010 ? :? "THE PRESENT VALUE AT CONTROLLER JACK #1 IS "SJACK1VAL 
1020 RETURN 



+ PEAK 



■1 CYCLE - 




-PEAK 



Figure 3: Switching power on and off at 
the zero-crossing points of the AC cycle. 
The circuit shown in figure 4 uses this 
technique to prevent production of elec- 
tromagnetic interference. 



amount of current that can flow 
through the triac. Usually I Q is deter- 
mined by the manufacturer at near 
ideal conditions. Therefore, I Q should 
not be exceeded unless you use a 
Sherman tank as a heat sink. I must 
be greater than the expected load cur- 
rent. Keep in mind that your home's 
circuit breakers will blow when load 
currents exceed about 20 amps (A). 

The triac's gate turn-on current 
U CTO ) specifies the amount of gate 
current required to turn on the triac. 
The / must be less than 0.1 A to 
work with the MOC3031. 

All power triacs should be mount- 
ed on heat sinks for best results. The 
metal case of a power triac is usually 
one of its main power terminals also. 
Therefore, the triac and its heat sink 
must be electrically insulated from all 
other hardware to prevent short cir- 
cuits. 

Resistor Rl in figure 4 allows about 
18 milliamps (mA) to flow into pin 1 
of the MOC3031. This current ener- 
gizes an infrared diode, which in turn 
activates the triac driver inside the 
MOC 3031. The TTL (transistor- 
transistor logic) levels in an Atari's 
controller jacks will not provide the 
18 mA needed, so the 7400 NAND 
gate (ICl) acts as a current buffer. 
Switch Si allows you to disconnect 
the computer from the relay circuit as 
a safety measure (see photo 2). 

The value of resistor R2 will vary 
depending on the I of Tl and the 
desired turn-on voltage. Table 1 lists 
the value in ohms (0) of R2 for 
several solid-state relays. 



434 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



YOU WANTED TO BE THE BOSS. 




YOUR BANKER WANTS THE LATEST MONTHLY INCOME STATEMENTS, 
BUT THE BEST YOU CAN GET HIM IS TWO MONTHS OLD. 



Today, even the greatest entrepreneur can feel 
that he works for everybody but himself— the IRS, 
the landlord, the banker, even the janitor. 

WITH THE BOSS, YOU'RE THE BOSS AGAIN. 

Business and computer experts agree the key 
to solving your business problems is the choice of 
software. Hardware equipment selection is second. 

To be competitive today means handling large 
amounts of information quickly. To be on top 
tomorrow means managing much, much more. 

The Boss Business Software Products are com- 
prehensive business software programs which get 
you information you need, as you need it, when you 
need it and the way you need it. You know your 
financial picture at every moment. You don't have to 
wait to close out the books at the end of every month. 

The Boss takes care of all your business needs, 
your financial accounting, payroll, inventory and 
time billing. 



WITH THE BOSS, YOU'RE THE BOSS AGAIN. 

The Boss Business Software Products are com- 
patible with most hardware systems. Call Balcones 
Computer Corporation to learn more about making 
yourself the Boss again. 



□ YES, Send me more in 
NAME 


ormation on The 


Boss. 


COMPANY 


ADDRESS 


CITY 


STATE 


ZIP 




PHONE 






TYPE OF BUSINESS 









For more information call toll free: 1-800-531-5483 



Balcones Computer Corporation 

5910 Courtyard 

Austin, Texas 78731 



THE BOSS BUSINESS SOFTWARE PRODUCTS 



Circle 42 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 435 




JOYSTICK 
CONTROLLER 
PIN 1, 2, 3 OR 4 



n> 



♦SEE text for component values 



Figure 4: This solid-state relay isolates a computer from up to 7500 V, produces no EMI 
when switching, runs quietly because it has no moving parts, and connects directly to 
an Atari 400/800. 



Triac 



DROM 



Motorola 
SC 245B 

Radio Shack 
276-1001 

276-1000 

RCA 
T2700B 

Texas Instruments 
TIC-246B 



200 V 



200 V 



400 V 



200 V 



200 V 





Typical 


!o 


gto 


10 A 


25 mA 


6 A 


50 mA 


6 A 


50 mA 


6 A 


15 mA 


15 A 


50 mA 



Maximum 

Power Delivered 

P = VL 



R2 



1200 W 



700 W 



700 W 



700 W 



1800 W 



600 O. 

300 B 

300 a 
1000 

300 fi 



Table 1: Some common triacs and their specifications. 



Power and Corruption 

This circuit has two limits to the 
amount of power it can control — the 
J of the triac (see table 1 for max- 
imum triac currents, and hence the 



maximum power that can be deliv- 
ered) and the amount of power an 
outlet can deliver. The current rating 
of most outlets is 15 A. Therefore, the 
maximum safe power delivered from 



your receptacle (calculated as V X A 
or 120 X 15) is 1800 watts. 

Building the Future 

Here are some suggestions for those 
of you who build this circuit. Make 
sure you build it exactly as shown in 
figure 4. If necessary, find someone 
who can help you. Do not connect 
pins 3 and 5 of the MOC3031 to any- 
thing. Remember you are dealing 
with lethal voltages, so be careful. 

Your Atari computer can do a lot 
more than play games. You can con- 
trol and monitor the environment to 
the limits of your imagination. I 
recommend that you experiment with 
the hardware and software presented 
here and build your own custom 
system. ■ 



The MOC3031 optoisolator can be 
purchased from any Motorola 
distributor, such as Hall-Mark Elec- 
tronics or Hamilton/ Avnet. Their 
price for small quantities is about $2 
each. If you wish to order by phone, 
call (800) 555-1212 and ask for the 800 
number of the nearest Hall-Mark or 
Hamilton/ Avnet distributor. 



The author will supply a cassette or 
disk with the programs listed in this ar- 
ticle plus a universal output controller 
program if you send your name and 
address with $8 for cassette or $9 for 
disk to David Alan Hayes, 3205 Lewis- 
burg Dr., Huntsville, AL 35810. An in- 
struction sheet will be included. 



McGraw-Hill Bookstore 

"Data-haoo ta/^hnt-ilrtrti/ awantial fnr tha ^^^^ McGraw-Hill BC 




"Data-base technology. . . essential for the 
computerized corporation of the future ..." 

— James Martin, author of 28 books and 
high-level advisor to several governments 

MANAGING THE 

DATA-BASE ENVIRONMENT 

by James Martin 

Prentice-Hall, publisher 

"How well the data-base environment is managed 
will effect the profitability of many corporations in 
the future." Here's the information you need now! 
766 pp. $49.95 



McGraw-Hill Bookstore B7 
1221 Avenue of the Americas 
N.Y, N.Y 10020 



US 



Please send me . 



. copies of Man- 



aging the Data-Base Environment by 

James Martin at $49.95. 



MasterCard- 



Account No._ 



Visa_ 



AmerExp_ 



Expires. 



Name 

Address- 
City_ 



State- 



Zip. 



Add sates tax Plus j^.50postage a , handling 



436 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 470 on inquiry card. 




Why it's worth every nickel. 



If you laid every nickel this 
terminal cost end to end, it would 
lead to a real bargain. 

Because if you're the kind of 
professional who buys an Ann 
Arbor terminal, you put the em- 
phasis on what you get out of it. 
Not what it costs to get into it. 

The best way to explain that 
is by telling you about one of our 
best-selling terminals: the Ann 
Arbor Ambassador™. 

The Ambassador offers in- 
credible value for the money. 



■OF 

Starting with a full 15-incli$creen 
— portrait or landscape. A 60-line 
display with vertical zoom. (You 
won't find that anywhere else.) A 
hard-working keyboard with 
dozens of programmable keys. 

Then there's the fully 
buffered peripheral port with 
separate, user-settable baud rate. 
ANSI-standard coding. Multiple 
page and window capability. 
Pause and Meta functions. Tilt- 
swivel or rack mounted frame. 
And dozens of other ergonomic 
features that have made the 
Ambassador a favorite among 



value-minded professionals 
nationwide. 

Now that you know all that, 
take another look at the nickels 
on this page and ask yourself this: 

Is it really true that money 
can't buy happiness? 

For more information about 
the Ambassador and our other 
fine terminals, write Ann Arbor 
Terminals, Inc. at 6175 Jackson 
Road, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48103. 
Or call us at 313/663-8000. You'll 
find it worthwhile. 



nnn arbor 

TERMINALS 
Once you've worked with them, you won't work without them. 



Circle 26 on inquiry card. 



SEE US AT SIGGRAPH '83 BOOTH #1343. 



Send us your game and THO 



i 



■ 8 

mr lb* 

imp* ^BP> 



. : ■ f: ■■..:■ ■ ■ . 



Gof a greaf home computer game you've 
programmed? Working on one? We'd like to 
hear about it. Play it. And if we like it, we 
want to help you sell it to the world. 

We're THORN EMI Video, the worldwide 
entertainment/ electronics company. One of 
the giants in home computer software. We 
market a full line of computer games to the 
world. So, if your computer game meets our 
own high standards, it means people all over 
the world could be buying it, playing it. 



N EMI will give you the world. 




Programming Quickies 



Redefining the Apple Keyboard 

With minor software modifications, you can rearrange the 
keyboard on the Apple II into a Dvorak layout. 

by Bob Wiseman 




Photo 1: The standard Apple II keyboard with the QWERTY 
key arrangement. Note that many frequently used keys (E, T, R, 
etc.) are not on the row where the fingers normally rest. 



The familiar QWERTY-style key layout, a boon to 
touch-typists trained on it but a bane to almost everyone 
else, stares up from the keyboard of most microcom- 
puters (photo 1). Alternative arrangements have drifted 
in and out of the picture but none has really caught on. 
Recently, however, the Dvorak simplified keyboard 
(DSK) has been gaining the attention of human-factors 
engineers. Proponents of the Dvorak layout believe that 
it's easier to learn and that a typist trained on that key- 
board can achieve higher speeds. On the Dvorak layout, 
the most-used letters are on the middle row, the home 
keys, where the fingers usually rest (photo 2). 

440 July 1983 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Photo 2: After gently prying the key caps off and rearranging 
them, you have the Dvorak simplified keyboard. The arrange- 
ment of the numerals shown here is the classic Dvorak arrange- 
ment. The recently approved American National Standards In- 
stitute Dvorak-layout keyboard standard (X4. 22-1983) specifies 
that the numerals be in ascending order, as in the common 
QWERTY arrangement. 



Apple II owners dissatisfied with the QWERTY layout 
or eager to experiment can redefine the meaning of any 
key without resorting to soldering. They can even assign 
a sequence of characters (macro) to a key. The programs 
that accomplish this rearrangement are as follows: 

• KEYDEF: Written in Applesoft BASIC, this routine (see 
listings 1 and 2) creates a keyboard table with two parts. 
The first part is a keyboard-translation table; the second 

Text continued on page 446 



Qcromemco A MITSUBISHI ?&&" 

TELEVIDEO, ALTOS, VISUAL IDS, OKIDATA, EPSON, HOUSTON INSTRUMENT 

C./TOH, TANDON, SWTPC, AMDEK, NEC, IBM, DEC, ESPRIT, QUME, GTCO 



COMPUTERS 

16 BIT 

CROMEMCO Best Price 

Anywhere 
$ 
CS1D2E 256K RAM, 68000 

two 5 Y*" floppy 4,396 

CS1D2 No error correction .... 3,996 

CS3D5E 51 2K RAM, 68000 & Z80 

two 8" floppies 7,996 

CS1HD5E 512K RAM, 68000 &Z80 

20MB hard disk, 

1 B14" floppy 8,071 

HD20 20 MB hard disk for 

system 1 , 2, & 3 3,596 

WICAT 1 t° 1 2 users, 68000 CPU, 
256K to 4.5MB RAM, 
10MB to 474MB hard disk, 
graphic 9,000 & up 

DUAL 68000 CPU, 51 2K RAM, 

20MB hard disk, intelligent I/O, 
1MB floppy, UNIX. . . 15,500 
32KB CMOS memory. . .995 

SWTPC, HELIX, DYNABYTE, TERAK . . CALL 



MODEMS 

D.C. Hayes Smartmodem 300 baud . . 230 
1 200/300 baud 530 

USR Auto link 1 200 450 

UDS 212 LP 400 

21 2A 595 

Novation Smartcat 300 200 

Smartcat 300/1200. . . .455 

SOFTWARE 

dBase II Ashton-Tate 489 

Redding 

Grftalk business graphics 400 

Async micro to mainframe 100 

Alpaca micro to micro 450 

Crosstalk Microstuf . . . , 1 60 



Prices subject to change. American Express, Visa/ 
Mastercard add 3%. F.O.B. point of shipment. 20% 
restocking fee for returned merchandise. Personal 
checks take 3 weeks to clear. COD on certified 
check only. N.Y. residents add sales tax. Manufac- 
turers' warranty only. International customers, 
please confirm price before order. Accept P.O. from 
Fortune 500 & schools. 



PC COMPUTERS 

Cromemco C-10SP 

Z80, 64K, 1 2" monitor, 390K floppy, 

CP/M compatible O.S., word processing 

& spreadsheet 1,525 



Zenith 



z no- 



Duai drives, 1 28K RAM, 
8/1 6 bit, color board, 
225 x640 graphics, 

IBM compatible 2,799 

ZW-1 1 0-32 W/1 1 MB hard disk .... 4,699 
ZVM-135 RGB 640x480 550 

Morrow Designs 

MD-1 Z80, 64K, 5 '/."floppy. . .850 

MD-2 W/two 5%" floppy .... 1,295 

Corona 

IBM compatible but with more power, 
1 28K RAM, 320K floppy, 640 x 325 
graphic green monitor, ser. & par. port, 
DOS, CP/M 86, GSX, GWBASIC, w.p. . CALL 

KAYPRO, COLUMBIA, EAGLE CALL 

LNW 80 I 65K, 480 x 1 92 graphic . . . 999 



PRINTERS 

Banana 50 cps 205 

IDS 
MicroPrism 1 1 cps, ser./par. 84 x 84 

grh. pin & friction 498 

Prism 132 200 cps, 1 32 col 1,100 

W/graphic 1,180 

W/graphic, color, 

friction 1,590 

Gemini 10 100 cps 345 

15 525 

Epson FX-80 1 60 cps 555 

Tl, CENTRONICS CALL 

Okidata ml 83a 650 

84 parallel 995 

92 560 

93 890 

C.itoh Prowriter I parallel 410 

'Letter Quality* 

C.itoh Starwriter F-10 1,295 

NEC 7710, 7730 2,250 

3550 for IBM 1,875 

Qume 11 + 1 ,400 

Diablo 620 998 

Transfer 130 727 



COMPUTER CHANNEL COMPUTER CHANNEL 

| Monthly Special J 

I MITSUBISHI I 

I 8" DOUBLE DENSITY/ DOUBLE SIDED | 

3 FLEXIBLE DISK DRIVE ^ ^ 3 

° M2894-63 1 .2MB drive 380 ° 

^ Two M2894 drives, cabinet w/power rf 

£ supply & fan (unassembled) 1,099 £; 

S 8" dual M2894 drives subsystem g 

3 (assembled) 1,130 3 

Q Technical manual 25 ° 

^ Dual drives signal cable 50 S 

§3 Slimline bare drive 410 [H 

a, (compatible w/Cromemco 64FDC) £ 

5 g 

o Dealers Welcome o 

o o 
COMPUTER CHANNEL COMPUTER CHANNEL 



TERMINALS 

Zenith Z-29 smart terminal 648 

ZT-1 w/modem 488 

Hazeltine Esprit n 578 

Esprit III 748 

Visual 50 625 

55 725 

300 948 

Wyse 1 oo 795 

PLOTTER/DIGITIZER 

Houston DMP-29 1,795 

Instrument DMP-40 795 

DMP-41 &DMP-42 CALL 

GTCO CALL 



COMPUTER CHANNEL COMPUTER CHANNEL 

g CALL (212) 937-6363 g 

5 free catalogue 

9 TO ORDER, CALL TOLL FREE 8 
I 800-331-3343 I 



p< Computer Channel 

§ 21-55 44th Road 

° Long Island City, NY 1 1 1 01 



TELEX: ft 

429418 § 

CSTNY ° 

.COMPUTER CHANNEL COMPUTER CHANNEL 



Circle 92 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 



441 



Listing 1: KEYDEF is an Applesoft BASIC program that simplifies the creation of the 
keyboard lookup and macroinstruction tables. It will prompt you through the reassign- 
ment of the keys and the creation of keyboard-character macroinstructions. 



HIMEM: 38144 
GOSUB 9000: R'EM 



INSTRUCTIONS 



28 GOSUB SOO0: REM INITIALIZE 

S8 QOSUB 2000: REM ASSIGN KBV8 

QOSUB 3000: REM ASSIGN MACRO 



"E KEVBOAR 



40 



50 qosub 4000: rem 
:• thBLE 

60 END 

2000 HOME 

2010 RRINT "HERE VOU MAV REDEFIN 

E THE KEYS TO" 
2O20 RRINT "REPRESENT NEW CHARAC 

TEF'S. FOR INSTANCE" 
2030 PRINT "VOU MAV DEFINE THE - 

A- KEV SO THAT IT" 
2040 PRINT "MILL INPUT THE -B- C 

HaRaCTER. " 
2050 PRINT 
2060 PRINT "TO MAKE THESE CHANGE 

S, DO THE FOLLOWING" 
2070 PRINT " 1) FIRST PUSH THE K 

EV THAT VOU WANT" 
208O PRINT " TO RE- ASSIGN." 
2O90 PRINT " 2.) THEN ENTER THE C 

HARACIER THAT VOU" 
2100 PRINT " WANT TO ASSIGN f 

THE KEY IN 1>. " 
2110 PR I NT 
2120 PRINT "PUSH THE SPACE BAR T 

QU IT." 
2130 PR I NT 

2140 PRINT "READ 1 . PRINT 

2 1 50 PR INT " KEV " S 
2160 GET A* 

2165 IF At = " " THEN PRINT : PRINT 
: RETURN 

2166 A* = At + CHRt '0' 
2170 PRINT" A*: " CI 



: HARACIER 



(Hi ' 



>b*:j 



2180 PRINT "- 

2190 GET B* 

2196 Bt = B* + CHR* <8> 

2200 PRINT B*: " <#": AS 

2210 POKE LOOK + ASC <A*>, ASC 

■BtJ * 12S 
2220 GOTO 2150 
3000 HOME 
3010 PRINT "HERE VOU MAV DEFINE 

A KEV SO THAT WHEN" 
3020 PRINT "IT IS PRESSED, AN EN 

TIRE WORD OR " 
3030 PRINT "PHRASE WILL BE PRODU 

CED. THESE ARE" 
3040 PRINT "CALLED MACROS." 
3050 PR I NT 
3060 PR I NT " 1 ,' FIRST PUSH THE 1 

EV" 
30SO PRINT " 2!) THEN ENTER THE M 

mlRO. END I HE MACRO" 
3090 PRINT " WITH A RETURN." 
3100 PRINT 
3102 PRINT "QUIT BV ENTERING A S 

PACE FUR THE KEV. " 
3104 PRINT 
5110 PRINT 12S - FSET:" MACRO PO 

SIT IONS AVAILABLE" 
3120 PR I NT " KEV " : 
3130 GET A* 
3140 IF A» = " " I HEN PRINT : PR IN I 

: RETURN 
3150 H* - At + CHRt ':.0 ' 
3155 RRINT A*:" 'tt": ASC •: A* > : " ' 



3160 POKE LOOK + ASC 

3170 PRINT "- MACRO "! 

320O GET Bt 

3205 PRIN1 Bt: 

3210 IF B* - CHR* ' 13> 

3400 

3220 IF B* = "" 1HEN B* 



PO* E HACR + FSEL 
t * B« 



A* ! , FSE I 

THEN SOTC 
CHR* 

■:.Bt ' + 



325L 

3260 FSET - FSE I • 1 

3 280 GOTO 3200 

3400 POKE MaCP * FSE T 



3430 


RETURN 


4000 


HOME 


4010 


PRINT "BEFORE WE SaUE THE T 




ABLE THAT HAS BEEN" 


4020 


PRINT "CREATED, HERE IS ONE 




FINAL OPPORTUNITY'' 


4030 


PRINT "TO MAKE A CHANGE. A 




NSWER WITH V OR N. " 


4040 


PRINT 


4050 


PRINT "WOULD VOU LIKE TO AS 




SIGN MORE KEYS?" 


4O60 


GET A*: PRINT A* 


4070 


IF A* = "V" THEN QOSUB 200 




0: GOTO 4000 


4075 


IF A* < > "N" THEN GOTO 4 




050 


4080 


PRINT 


4090 


PRINT "WOULD VOU LIKE TO AS 




SIGN MOPE MACROS?" 


4100 


GET A*: PRINT A* 


41 10 


IF At = "V" THEN GOSUB 300 




0: GOTO 4000 


4115 


IF A* < > "N" THEN GOTO 4 




090 


4120 


PRINT 


4 1 30 


PRINT "WOULD VOU LIKE TO SA 




OE THE KEYBOARD " 


4140 


PRINT "TABLE THAT VOU HAUE 




CREA TED ? " 


4 1 50 


GET At 


4160 


IF At = "N" THEN PRINT "FI 




LE NOT SAUED": RETURN 


4170 


IF A* < > "V" THEN GO 10 4 




130 


4180 


PR I NT 


4190 


PRINT "PLEASE ENTER A NAME 




FOR THE FILE!" 


4200 


INPUT "FILE NAME? " : A* 


4300 


IF A* - "" OR At - " " THEN 




GOTO 4 1 30 


4310 


REM HERE IS DOS BIHAR'.' FI 




LE SAUE 


4320 


PRINT 


4330 


PRINT Dt;"BSHME "SA*;",A*95 




00. L* 108" 



IS NOW S 



4 340 PRINT D* 
4350 RRINT "FILE 

AUED. " 
4960 RETURN 
8000 HOME 

8018 LOOK = 38144 

8020 MACR - LOOK » 95 

8030 FSET = 1 
8040 REM INITIALIZE TABLE WITH 

REGULAR KEYBOARD 
805O FOR !<: = O TO 93 
8060 POKE LOOK + K*X + 128 
8070 NEKT X 
8080 POKE LOOK + 94 , O 
8090 POKE LOOK + 95,8 

3100 Dt « CHRt C4> 
8908 RETURN 
9008 HOME 
9010 PRINT "****+*******+**+**** 

**** + + + **:**:*:♦:**:+* + +" 

9820 PRINT "* 

*" 
9030 PRINT "* KEVDEF PROGRAM — 

BV BOB WISEMAN *" 
9035 PRINT "* <C> 198 

2 WISEMAN *" 

9O40 PRINT "* 

*" 

9050 PRINT "* 

ALLOW VOU 

9060 PRINT "* 

VS OH 1HE 

9670 PRINT "* 

CHARACTERS *" 
9080 PRINT "* 2> ASSIGN 10 m KEY 

A WORD TIP PHRASE.*" 
9090 PRINT "* 

4 " 
91 00 PRINT "*+*********+**♦* + +* * 

+ + ****** + ** + + * + + * t * " 
9120 PRINT 
9130 PRINT " - PUSH Hi IV ITS' ID 

CCIHT I HI IE " 
9 140 8ET At 
9150 RETURN 



THIS PROGRAM WN I 
TO : *" 
1 • REASSIGN 1HE KE 
*" 
KEYBOARD TO NEW 



Listing 2: KEYDEF sample run. The exam- 
ple shows the changes necessary to convert 
the middle row of keys from QWERTY to 
DSK (Dvorak simplified keyboard) for- 
mat. In addition, two macroinstructions 
are entered. The first causes CTRL-C to 
produce CATALOG; the second changes 
CTRL-P to PRINT. The new keyboard 
table is stored on disk with the filename 
DSK. 



TFR#0 

IRON KEVDEF 

+ + +:+■ :*+* + + * + *** + * + * + + * + + *:♦: + + * + **:*** + **:*:* 

* * 

* KEVDEF PROGRAM -- BV BOB WISEMAN * 

* •::« 1982 WISEMAN * 

* * 

* THIS PROGRAM WILL ALLOW VOU TO : * 

* 1.) REASSIGN THE KEVS ON THE * 

* KEYBOARD TO NEW CHARACTERS * 

* 2> ASSIGN TO A KEV A WORD OR PHRASE.* 

* * 
*+++******************************+**** 

— > push anv kev to continue 
here vou mav redefine the kevs to 
represent hew characters. for instance 
vou mav define the -a- kev so that it 
will input the -b- character. 

tci make these changes, do the following 
1) first push the kev that vou waht 

to re-assign. 
2.) then enter the character that vol! 
want to assign to the key in i:>. 

push the space bar to quit. 

READV: 

KEV s <»83:> -> CHARACTER •:tt79:>. 

KEV D <*68j -> CHARACTER E <:#69:>. 

KEV F <»?&> -> CHARACTER U C#6S>. 

KEV Q <:#7i:> -> CHARACTER I C*73>. 

KEV H t«72.) -> CHARACTER D t:#68>. 

KEV .3 <:#74:> -> CHARACTER H <:#72>. 

KEV K ■:#75> -> CHARACTER T '.:#S4,>. 

KEV L <#76:> -> CHARACTER N <#78>. 

KEV : <#59:> -> CHARACTER S <:#S3:>. 
KEV 

HERE VOU MAV DEFINE A KEV SO THAT WHEN 
IT IS PRESSED, AN ENTIRE WORD OR 
PHRASE WILL BE PRODUCED. THESE ARE 
CALLEI) MACROS. 

1! FIRST PUSH THE KEV 

2> THEN EHTER THE MACRO. END THE MACRO 
WITH A RETURN. 



QUI T BV ENTERING 



SPACE FOR THE KEV 



127 MACRO POSITIONS AUAILABLE 

KEV t*3.> -> MACRO CATALOG 

120 MACRO POSITIONS AUAILABLE 

KEV <:ttl6.. -> MACRO PRINT 

115 MACRO POSITIONS AUAILABLE 
KEV 

BEFORE WE SAME THE TABLE THAT HAS BEEN 
CREATED, HERE IS ONE FINAL OPPORTUNITV 
TO MAKE A CHANGE. ANSWER WITH V OR N. 

WOULD VOU LIKE TO ASSIGN MuRE MACROS? 



WOULD VOU LIKE TO SAME THE KEYBOARD 
TABLE THAT VOU HAUE CREATED? 



PLEASE ENTER A HaME FOR THE I- ILL: 
FILE HAME? DSK 



FILE DSK IS NOW SAUED. 



54 1 6 



IF FSET 



1 , ASC ' 
12S THEN GOTO 31 



PRINT "MAC 
SORRY. " 



VhBLE FULL 



442 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



■WWW" 

rmrmnrrnrmm 
iwwntmnm«-.T-T-: 
nMranirawniwimw! 




\ 



WE'RE TRADING APPLES FOR PROGRAMS. 



Programmers, man your keyboards. Earn a 
new Apple He system by helping us build the most 
comprehensive collection of instrumentation ap- 
plications software in the industry. 

What we need is your input. Quality programs 
written for any of our personal computer com- 
patible instruments, including the aScope" (digital 
memory oscilloscope), aSource (arbitrary wave- 



form generator), aGeif (function generator), 
and Model 2100 (logic state analyzer). 

For details and instrument specifications, 
simply circle the number below on the inquiry 
card and drop it in the mail. Also, to help get 
you cracking, you might want to program 
B^* a few reminders to yourself that Apple 
Q^P Season ends December 31, 1983. 



NORTHWEST INSTRUMENT SYSTEMS, INC. 

RO. Box 1309, Beaverton, Oregon 97075 
PERSONAL INSTRUMENTS. BRINGING YOU CLOSER. 



Circle 297 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 443 



Listing 3: DSK-MACRO-KEYIN is a 6502 assembler program 
that replaces the Apple's normal KEYIN routine. It can be 
entered into an assembler but is short enough to be entered 
directly into memory from the Apple monitor. After entering 
the code, type in BSAVE DSK-MACRO-KEYIN, A$300,L$54 to 
save this file on disk. 



it**************************** 

f I FYhi ml I- I 'F I 1 'PR l-i iui tut*. 











1 1 1 1 1 


* FY 


BM 


■i WISEMAN 










1040 


* 


JUL'.' 7, 1982 










1050 


* 














1060 


***************************** 










1070 


* 














1 080 




■ OR 


*0300 










1090 


* 




1HIS PROGRAM MILL LOAD AT *380. 










1180 


* 




IT REPLACES THE KEVIN ROUTINE 










1110 


* 




ON A 48K APPL E I I + . 










1120 


* 














1130 


I HH00K 


EQ *38 










1140 


KEVBOAR 


EQ *C080 










1150 


KEVS 


RB 


EQ *C818 










1160 


ASH I MEM 


EQ *74 










1170 


RNDL 




EQ *4E 










1 180 


RNDH 




EQ *4F 










1190 


BASL 




EQ *2S 










1200 


LOOK 




EQ *9588 










1210 


XSTOR 


EQ *955E 










1 220 


MPO I NT 


EQ *955F 










1230 


MACR 




EQ *955F 










1250 


* 














1260 


***************************** 










1270 


* 














1280 


STAR 














1290 


* 




BRANCH TO STARTUP 










1300 


* 




ALLOWS FILE TO BE BRUN 


8380- 


13 






1310 




CLC 




8301- 


90 


3B 




1320 
I 330 


* 


BCC 


STROP 










1340 


**************************** 










1 358 


+ 














1 360 


DRIU 














1370 


* 




THIS IS THE NORMAL ENTRV 










1 388 


* 




POINT. FIRST SAUE THE X 










1390 


* 




REGISTER. THEN FIND 










1400 


* 




THE CHARACTER IN THE LOOK 










1410 


+ 




IABLE. IF Bit 7 IS ON, 










1428 


* 




SEND THAT TABLE ENTRV. 










1430 


* 






0383- 


3E 


5E 


95 


1440 




SIX 


XSTOR SAUE X REQIStER 


036&- 


AE 


5F 


95 


1450 




ldx 


MPO I NT CHECK FOR MACRO MODE 


0309- 


D0 


IF 




1460 




BNE 


GETMAC BRACH 11 IN MACRO 


030B- 


48 






1465 




PHA 


SAME CURSOR CHARACTER 










1470 


KEVIN 




838C - 


E6 


4E 




1488 




INC 


RNDL 1NCP RANDOM NUMBER 


038E- 


DO 


02 




1498 




BNE 


KEV 1 112 


0310- 


E6 


4F 




1 500 




1 1 li 


RNDH 










1518 


KEV I H2 




0312- 


AD 


00 


CO 


1 528 




LDA 


KEVBOAR KEV DOWN? 


8315- 


10 


F5 




1 538 




BPL 


KEVIN .NO INI R PND AGAIN 


8317- 


2C 


10 


00 


1540 




BIT 


KEYSTRB RESE1 STROBE 


03 1 ft- 


29 


7F 




1560 




AND 


#*7F Bl 1 7 OFF 


03 It 


AA 






1 5 70 




tax 




03 ID 


68 






1 5 75 




PEA 


QE1 OLD CURSOR 


031E- 


91 


28 




1 S 76 




St A 


■;BASL>,V REPLACE FLASH I US SCREEN 


0320- 


BD 


00 


95 


1580 




El 'A 


look , ;■: 06 1 chhral i er 


0323- 


10 


04 




1590 
1 608 
1610 


ex i i 
* 


BPL 


hMai. R lilns 1 1 l-IAl Ri i ? 

NORMAL EXIT ROUTINE 


0325- 


HE 


SE 


95 


1628 




LDX 


XSTOR RESTORE X REGISTER 


0323- 


60 






1640 


* 

**+* 


RTS 


RETURN 










1 658 
1668 


****************************** 










1670 


* 














1680 


AMACR 












1690 


* 




USE THE LOOK TABLE RESULT 










1 780 


* 




AS A POINTER TO THE MACR 










1710 


* 




table, send characters 










1720 


:* 




UNTIL BIT 7 IS OFF. 










1 730 


* 






0329- 


AA 






1740 




TAX 












1758 


SETMAC 












1768 


* 




GETMAC IS THE ENTRV POINT 










1778 


* 




FOR A MACRO THAT IS NOT 










1780 


* 




FINISHED. 










1 790 


+ 






032A- 


BD 


5F 


95 


1810 




LDA 


MACR.X GET NEXT CHARACTER 


0320- 


10 


06 




1828 




BPL 


LASMAC LAST CHAR IN MACRO? 


032F- 


ES 






1830 




INK 




0330- 


8E 


5F 


95 


1840 




SIX 


MPOINT NO SET FOR NEXT 


0333- 


10 


F0 




1868 




BPL 


EXIT GET OUT 










1378 


LASMAC 












1330 


* 




THIS IS LAST CHAR 


0335- 


09 


30 




1885 




ORA 


#*S8 TURN ON BIT 7 


0337- 


A2 


00 




1890 




LDX 


#*0O ZERO OUT POINTER 


8339- 


SE 


5F 


95 


1988 




STX 


MPOINT 


033C- 


F0 


E7 




1918 




BEQ 


EXIT GET OUT 





1920 


* 






1938 


********************************** 




1940 


* 






1950 


STRUP 






1968 


* 


THIS CODE PLUGS THE KEYBOARD 




1 970 


* 


DRIOER ROUTINE INTO DOS 3.3 




1988 


* 


IT, IS ONLV RUN TO INTIALIZE 




1990 


* 


THE KEYBOARD DRIOER PROGRAM 




2880 


* 




033E- A9 95 


2818 


LDA 


#*95 


8348- 85 74 


2828 


STA 


ASHIMEM SET HIMEM 


0342- A9 00 


2838 


LDA 


#*08 RESET OARIABLES 


0344- 3D 5F 


95 2848 


STA 


MPOINT 


0347- 85 73 


2858 


STA 


ASH I MEM- 1 


0349- A9 03 


2868 


LDA 


#DRIU GET DRIOER ADDRESS 


034B- A0 03 


2878 


LDV 


.DRIU 


034D- 85 38 


2888 


STA 


IHHOOK PUT INTO HOOK 


034F- 84 39 


2890 


STV 


INHOOK+1 


8351- 20 EA 


03 2180 


JSR 


*3EA CONNECT TO DOS 


0354- 60 


2118 


RTS 


END I T 




2128 


********************************* 




2138 


* *9588 


LOCAL OARIABLES 




2148 


*.**********■**************+******* 




2158 


* 






2168 


* LOOK 






2178 


* 


THIS IS UHERE THE LOOKUP 




2138 


* 


TABLE BEGINS. ENTRIES 




2198 


* 


WITH BIT 7 ON ARE REAL 




2288 


* 


CHARACTERS FOR OUTPUT. 




2210 


* 


IF BIT 7 IS OFF, THIS IS 




2220 


* 


AN INDEX INTO THE MACRO 




2230 


* 


TABLE. 




2270 


* 






2280 


**************************** 




2298 


* 






2300 


* MACR 






2310 


* 


MACRO KEV DEFINITIONS 




2320 


* 


ARE STORED HERE BV TABLE 




2330 


* 


BUILD PROGRAM. IF THE 




2340 


* 


LOOK TABLE ENTRV DOES NOT 




2358 


+ 


HAOE BIT 7 ON, THEN IT IS 




2355 


* 


AN INDEX TO THE MACR ThBLE. 




2368 


* 


LAST CHARACTER IN MACRO 




2378 


* 


WILL HAOE BIT 7 OFF. 




2380 


*******************+*********** 


Listing 4: KEYSTART 


is a short program written in Applesoft 


BASIC. Its function is to initial 


e the system with the new key- 


board table. It asks for 


the name of the keyboard table and then 


loads this from 


disk. Finally, it activates a BRUN of the new 


KEYIN routine 








: PR#0 








ILIST 








1 HI MEM: 38 


144 






5 HOME 








1 PR INT " 


THIS PROGRAM WILL 


LOA 


D AND INITIAL IZ 


E" 




28 PRINT "THE DSK-MACRO-KEVIN RO 


UT I HE " 








38 PRINT 








40 D* = CHR* C4> 






SO INPUT "ENTER THE 


K EVBOARC 


FIL 


E NAME 


'IB* 






6€t PRINT. D* 


: "BLOAD 


"; A* 




78 PRINT D* 


: " BRUN t 


SK-MACRO- 


KEV I 


N" 









444 July 1983 © BYTE Publications lnc 






The New Rixon Intelligent R212A Modem... 



The Intelligent R212A has literal- 
ly leap-frogged the competition 
and revolutionized the 212A 
modem market. All beta site cus- 
tomers report that the Intelligent 
R212A is the most amazing 1200 
BPS full duplex modem with an 
integral automatic dialer they 
have ever seen. Installation is the 
simplest of any modem ever because 
all options are soft (programmed from the keyboard) 
no screw drivers or tools required, just plug it in. 

The Intelligent R212A features: 

• Automatic log on to databases 
with a single key stroke 

• User friendly HELP list menu 

• Store up to 10 numbers and 
alpha descriptions 

• Automatically sets parity 

• Automatically selects tone or 
pulse dial 

• Dial stored numbers with a single 
key stroke or other numbers 
from the keyboard 




' Initiate modem tests from the 

keyboard and review results on 

the CRT screen 
' Battery backup protects all 

memory 
' Link to another number if first 

number busy 
• Redial selected numbers 1 to 99 

times 
» An unprecedented low price of 

$495.00 

The Intelligent R212A continuously monitors the progress 

of each call and reports its status by displaying — "Dialing 

Number", "Waiting", "Ringing", "Busy", "No 

Answer", "Linking" and "On Line". 

The Intelligent R212A is so small it stands to reason the 
circuit card is very popular with OEM's. The OEM card 
is .5" x 5.4 "x 8.8" (47 sq. inches). 

Call Bill Vance today, at RIXON Inc., at 

(301) 622-2121, ext. 431. Bill can explain 

to you how the RIXON Intelligent 

R212A has revolutionized the 212A 

modem market. 




RIXON 



INC. 
2120 Industrial Pky., Silver Spring, Md. 20904 
301-622-2121 TWX 710-825-0071 TLX 89-8347 



#3044 ©RIXON INC., 1983 



Circle 350 on inquiry card. 






BYTE July 1983 445 



Circle 199 on Inquiry card. 



MODEMS/ CRTS/ PRINTERS/ SWITCHES/ MICRO COMPUTERS/ CABLES 


— 


PRODUCT DESCRIPTION 


LIST 


YOUR COST 


H 


UDS 103LP, 300 bps. Modem 


145 


130 


K UOS 202LP 1200 bos. Half Duplex Modem 


195 


150 ^B 


■ UDS 212LP, 1200 bps. Full Duplex (212A) Modem 


445 


CAI 1 ^B 


B U.S. Robotics Auto Dial 212A, 300/1200 Hull Duplex Modem 


599 


■S 


pi Incomm Auto Dial 212A, 300/1200 Full Duplex Modem 


599 


450 f^J 


LI Cermetec Auto Dial 212A. 300/1200 Full Duplex Modem 


595 


495 [3 


1^1 Microband Auto Dial 212A, 300/1200 Full Duplex Modem 


695 


495 l n J 


Hi Rixon Intelligent Modem, 300/1200 (10 Number) 


495 


CALL Kj 


f| Rixon PC 212A (IBM PC Modem Card) 300/1200 


495 


CALL Kj 


■I Incomm Mutti Dial 300/1200 (10 Number) 


795 


550 mtk 


H U.S. Robotics Password 300/1200 (Auto Dial) Modem 


495 


i ^B' 


Hi UK Robotics Courier, Osborne 300/1200 Modem 


518 


cai i iBH 


-. 


U.S. Robotics S-100, 300/1200 Auto Dial Modem 


495 


CALL 


J 


Visual 50 CRT 


695 


550 


M Freedom 100 CRT, w/20 F, keys & Editing 


595 


550 M 


- 


Incomm Remote Station 1, w/lntegrated 300/1200 Modem 


1295 


995 


*\ 


Epson MX80/Graftrax + 


650 


399 




Epson MX80 FT/Graftrax + 


700 


498 






Epson MXIOO/Graftrax + 


900 


700 






Epson FX-80 


750 


656 






Star Micronics Gemini 10 


399 


350 






Star Micronics Gemini 15 


649 


548 






AJ Letter Quality Printer, 30 CPS (KSR) 


1450 


1250 






Incomm AB Switch, 8 Pin 


120 


84 


Sm 




Incomm AB Switch, 25 Pin 


159 


98 




fc 


Incomm ABC Switch, 25 Pin 


198 


138 




CD 


IDS Breakout Box (Blue Box) 


159 


140 


1 


03 


Incomm Breakout Box (Bob) 


150 


120 


J 


. w 


Epson, HX-20-AA 


795 


CALL 


,^l 


is 


Epson QX-10/256K 


2995 


CALL 


*^l 


o_> 


Zenith Z-100 


4000 


CALL 






T-7MM, 7 Pin, 4 Wire, Telephone Cable (Modular Plugs) 


10 


7 




■ S-^Vfi Modular Double Adapter 


7 


^■J 


H EIA 9/5, RS 232, 9 Pin Cable, 5 FT MM/FF/MF 


15 


'2 l^' 


El EIA 25/5, RS232, 25 Pin Cable, 25 FT MM/FF/MF 


22 


14 1£1 


Fl EIA 50/5, Centronics Parallel Cable, 5 FT (36 Pin) 


30 


21 F,l 


LI MC 0050/10, Centronics 10 Ft. MM Cable, 36 Pin (10 FTI 


38 


2b tl 


LjJ 7010/5, IBM PC Printer Cable w/36 Pin 


40 


22 ^J 


IB 8010/5 Apple II Printer Cable w/36 Pin 


27 


18 ^B 




9010/5, Atari Printer Cable w/36 Pin 


30 


21 


d 


h-jj 


U.S. Robotics Telpac 


79 


CALL 




Rixon PC Com 1 (IBM PC Software) 


69 


CALL 


A 



l 



ORDER TOLL FREE - 1-800-323-2666 

TOUMAYAN & ASSOCIATES 

115 N. Wolf Rd. 
Wheeling, IL 60090 



312-459-8866 



We Welcome: •Visa, Mastercharge 
•Checks 
•Company P.O. 
•C.O.D. (Add. $1 50/Shipment) 



OFFLINE 

DATA 

ENTRY 

Perform data entry on 
microcomputers - free 
your mainframe for more 
important work: 

RADAR data entry software runs on 
almost any microcomputer, including 
DEC VT -180 and Rainbow 100, HP 
125, Xerox 820, Zenith Z100, Apple. 
TRS80, most others. 

Call Paul Scatise at 205-9.-53- 1659 for 

more information. 



Southern 

2304 12th AVE 




jvstems Inc. 

MHbiHAM, AL 35234 



] 



part stores macroinstructions. Once this table is created, 
the program will save it on disk. A sample run is in- 
cluded. The program logic is easy to follow; the only 
unusual feature is that the program adds a character to 
the null string that the Applesoft GET statement returns 
for the SHIFT-CTRL-P key. 

• DSK-MACRO-KEYIN: This machine-language routine 
(see listing 3) replaces the Apple's normal KEYIN routine 
in page three of memory. It receives values from the key- 
board and looks up their replacements in the translation 
table. If the translation table indicates that a particular 
key has been assigned a macroinstruction, the new 
KEYIN routine sends the characters from the macroin- 
struction table. 

• KEYSTART: This routine (see listing 4) loads the trans- 
lation table and then activates the new KEYIN routine. 
This could be stored as a HELLO program on the boot 
disk. 



It's easy to rearrange the key caps 

on the Apple to match new key 

assignments. 



While experimenting with new key definitions, you 
may find it odd to be pressing a key marked with one 
character and have another character appear on the video 
screen. However, it is quite easy to rearrange the key 
caps on the Apple to match new key assignments. I 
discovered this recently after my 3-year-old had eaten a 
popsicle while playing typewriter — I had to pry off the 
key caps to rinse them. Only gentle pressure was re- 
quired. 

Both those who hunt and peck and trained keyboard 
artists will find the macroinstructions helpful. Wouldn't 
it be nice to hit CTRL-C and have the word CATALOG 
show up on the screen? Think how fast you could pro- 
gram in Applesoft BASIC if the CTRL-P combination 
produced the keyword PRINT and CTRL-I produced the 
word INPUT. ■ 



References 

ANSI X4.22-1983: American National Standard for Office 

Machines and Supplies — Alphanumeric Machines— Alternate 

Keyboard Arrangement. New York: American National Standards 

Institute, 1983. 

Glasco, David B., and Murray Sargent III. "Using IBM's Marvelous 

Keyboard." May 1983 BYTE, page 402. 

Lemmons, Phil. "A Short History of the Keyboard." November 

1982 BYTE, page 386. 



About the Author 

Bob Wiseman (1899 Muskegon Dr., Cincinnati, OH 45230) designs 
financial modeling/ information systems at Cincinnati Milacron and 
teaches microcomputing classes. He owns an Apple II Plus and is active 
in the Cincinnati Applesiders. 



446 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 382 on inquiry card. 



■ 




BIT Powerhouse 




;-4;*l;i 



V 



The "SLICER" is a HIGH PERFORMANCE single board computer based on the 
new, highly advanced Intel 80186 CPU. The board has these advanced features: 





Full 8MHz 16-bit microprocessor hav- 
ing complete software compatibility 
with the 8086 and 8088 

Two full function RS232C serial ports 
with baud rates individually controlled 
by software. 

Baud rate for console port is acquired 
automatically. 

Floppy disk controller allows the com- 
bination of 5 'A and 8" disk drives, 
single or double sided, single or double 
density. 

SASI port for hard disk controller with 
data transfer rate of up to 2Mb per 
second. 

Memory capacity of 256KB ram on 
board plus up to 32KB of EPROM. 

90 line expansion interface with 20 bit 
latched address bus, 16 bit data bus 
and all important 80186 control signals. 



Available Now! 

This system is marketed and supported exclusively by: 
Note: New name, address and telephone number. ] : |l 

CI irCD SLICER COMPUTER INC. 2543 Marshall St. N.E. til 

OLI V-LlY Minneapolis, MN 55418 phone (612) 788-9481 

Mastercard. Visa, check, money order or C.O.D. orders accepted. Please allow 4-6 weeks for delivery. 
*CP/M a trademark ol Digital Research Inc. 



A high performance ROM monitor is in- 
cluded with all systems. 

BIOS for CP/M86* operating system in- 
cluded. 

Power requirements: iBiS 

+ 5 volt, ± 5% at 3 ampere max. 
+ 12 volt, ± 10% at 60milliampere 

max - " ~ zr 2±— \ _j»5Sp" 

- 12 volt, ± 10% at 50milliampere 
max. ]wM ...1 

All this on a board the width of a 5 1 A " 
drive and only 1 1 Vz inches long. 

Sold in various kit forms from 
$140-$895. Assembled and tested 
$1,075. Quantity discounts available. 
Prices valid through July. 

Complete documentation included. 





Circle 371 on inquiry card. 



' ' 1 

„ -t^T""" ] 



computer mail order 



PRINTERS 

SMITH CORONA 
Call on $50.00 Factory Rebate? 

TP-1 $499.00 

Tractor Feed $129.00 

Ultrasonic I Typewriter $439.00 

C. ITOH (TEC) 

Gorilla $209.00 

Ptownter 8510P $379 0O 

Prowr.ter 851 OS $579.00 

Prowriter IIP $699.00 

Prowr.ter IIS $749.00 

Starvvnter F10-40 $1259.00 

Printmaster F10-55 $1649 00 

OKIOATA 

Call for price and information of 

OKIDATA B2A, 83A. 84(Parallel). 

84(Senal). 92 a 93 

EPSON 

Call tor price and information on EPSON 
RX80. MX80. MXBOFT. FX80A MXIOO. 

IDS 

MicroPnam $649.00 

132 (Fully Configured) ....$1599.00 

BO (Fully Configured) $1399.00 

Call (or other configurations. 
STAR 

Gemini 10 $339 00 

Gemini 15 $489. OO 

Serial Board $75. OO 

OAIBYWHITEP 

2000 (Letter Quality) $1149.00 

Tractor Feed $109 00 

DIABLO 

620 $999.00 

S30 $1 769 00 



efcTel^ideo 




TERMINALS 

910 $559 00 

912C $689.00 

920C $739. OO 

925C $719. OO 

950 $929 00 

COMPUTERS 

SOOA $1259.00 

802 $2649 00 

802H $4695.00 

806/20 $4949 00 

81 6/40 $8999 00 

803 $1949.00 

1602G $3399.00 

1603 CALL 

SEC 

COMPUTERS 

6000 CALL 

8001A $669 00 

8031 $669 OO 

8012 $549 00 

8801 CALL 

PRINTERS 

8023 $4*9.00 

7710/7730 $2249.00 

3510/3530 $1549 00 

MONITORS 

JB-1260 $119 OO 

JB-1201 $149. OO 

JC-1212 $299.00 

JC-1 2-202 $299 OO 

JC ■ 1 203 $549.00 




Call on Eagle 8 Bit & 16 Bit 
Computers & Software 

MODEMS 

HAVES 

Smart $219.00 

Smart 1 200 (1 200 Baud) . . . $51 9. 00 

Chronograph $199.00 

Micromodem 100 $309. OO 

Micromodem II $279. OO 

Micromodem H(wlth term) . . . $299.00 

Smart Com II $99.00 

Smart 1 200B CALL 

NOVATION 

J-Cat $119.00 

Cat $144.00 

D-Cat $159 OO 

103 Smartest $189. OO 

Apple Cat II $279.00 

103/212 SmartCat $439.00 

21 2 Apple Cat II $609.00 

Apple Cat II 21 2 Upgrade. . . . $309.00 
ANCHOR 

Mark I (BS-232) $79.00 

Mark 11 (Atari) $79.00 

Mark III (T.I. -99) $109.00 

Mark IV (CBM-PET) $125.00 

Mark V (Osborne) $95 00 

Mark VI (IBM-PC) $179.00 

Mark VII (Auto Ans./Aulo Dial) ... • 99.00 

TRS-80 Color Computer $99.00 

9 Volt Power Supply $9.00 

Mark VII I CALL 



MONITORS 

AMOEK 

300G $1 59.00 

300A $169.00 

310A $169.00 

Color I $279.00 

Color I plus 299.00 

Color II $439 00 

Color III $349.00 

BMC 

12AU 12 " Green $79 99 

1401 13 'Color(Mid-Res) $369.00 
9191 U 13" Composite $329 00 

TAXAN 

RGB 1 (Hi-Res) $219.00 

RGB III $499.00 

12 N Green $119.00 

12 A Amber $125.00 

ZENITH 

ZVM 121 $95.00 

ZT-1 Terminal $369.00 

U.B.I. 

Pi 1 . 9" Green $99.00 

PI 2. 12" Green $119.00 

Pi 3. 12" Amber $159.00 

Pi 4. 9" Amber $139.00 

140OC 14" Color $299 OO 



PANASONIC 

JR200U32K Pars. Computer . $309.00 

MONITORS 
TR-12012 Hi-ResGreen ...$159.00 
CT-1 60 10" Dual Mode Color . $299.00 

DT-D1000 10" RGB $349.00 

DT-OI 300 1 3 'RGB/Compos. . . . $429.00 



NEC 

3BSO PRINTER... SI 943 

PERCOM/TANDOM 
DRIVES 

5V»" 160K Disk Drive $249.00 

5'/4*320K Disk Drive $299.00 

AMOEK 

310A Amber Monitor $169.00 

Amdisk III (3 Drive) $499. OO 

DXY Plotter $599.00 

Color II $439.00 

AST 

Mega Plus 64 $399.00 

OUBIE 

PC Keyboard $219.00 

SOFTWARE 
MicroPro WordStar/Mai I Merge. $31 9.00' 

I. U.S. Easywriter II $249.00 

I U.S. Easyspeller $129.00 

Peach P»ckage(GL/AP/AR) ... $41 9.00 

PROFESSIONAL 
SOFTWARE 

PC Plua(Word Processing) ... $319.00 

CONTINENTAL 

SOFTWARE 

IstClassMail/Form Letter ...$89.00 

The Home Accountant Plus ... $ 1 09 .00 

8VNAP8E 

File Manager $1 1 9.00 

PFB APPLE IBM 

File $89 00 $99.00 

Report $89.00 $89 00 

Graph $89.00 $99.00 

Write n/a $99.00 



REAOY FORMS 

l"or2"Addr*»s Labl8(Tract.Feed)..$9.95 
1 5" Report Paper (Tract. ?•*!) ■ $24.95 
8Vi"Blnk WW PapenTract.Faad) ..$1 9.95 
BVj "Blnk Env(Tract. Feed). $14.95 



SANYO 

M61 OOO Computer $1599.00 

INCLUDES FREE SOFTWARE? 

MicroPro, WordStar, Calcstar. 

Mail Merge a Report Star. 

MB 160 Add on Drive $539.00 

5500 LetterQuality Printer . . $699. OO 



TIMEX 
SINCLAIR 

1QOO 




$39.95 

16K Memory Module $44.95 

Vu-Calc $17.95 

Check Book Manager $13.95 

The Organizer $14.95 

The Budgetet $1 3.95 

Stock Option $14.95 

Loan* Mortgage Amortizer ,,.$12.95 
Mindware Printer $109.00 

OBBYTE SOFTWARE 

Graphics $1 2.99 

Home Budgeter $12.99 

Home Inventory $12.99 

Income Tax $14.99 

Mega Mind $15.99 

Salvo $12.99 

TheQuil $12.99 

Words $1 2. 99 







t commodore 



1520 Color Printer/Plotter ...$169. OO 

1525 BO Column Printer $339. OO 

1 530 Datasette $69.00 

1541 Single Disk Drive $339.00 

1600 VIC Modem $95.00 

1610 VIC Term 40 $49,00 

1 650 AD/AA Modem $1 59.00 

1701 14" Color Monitor. ...$269. 00 

1311 Joysticks (each) $5,99 

1 31 2 Paddles $1 1 .99 

1110 VIC 8K $42.00 

1111 VIC 16K $69.00 

1011 RS232 Interface $42.00 

1211 Super Expander $53,00 

1906 Super Alien $23.00 

1910 Radar Rat Race $23.00 

1917 V00D00 Castle $29.00 

1922 Cosmic Cruncher $35.00 

1923 Gorf $29.00 

1924 Omega Race $30.00 

1 1 VIC 20 Reference Guide ... $1 5.00 
CBM 64 Reference Guide,,,. $18. 00 

EABY BUSINESS 
SERIES 64 

Easy File $79.00 

Easy Finance $39.00 

Easy Mail $39.00 

Easy Script $79.00 

Word Machine/Name Machine. . . $23.00 

PROORAMMER 

SERIES B4 

Assembler $39.00 

Logo $79.00 

Pilot , $79.00 

Pet Emulator $25.00 

Screen Editor $25. OO 

Video/ Music Support $39.00 

ART ANO MUBIC 
8ERIE8 84 

Music Machine $25.00 

Music Composer $25.00 

Meta Music I $79.00 

COMMERCIAL DATA 

Motor Mouse/20 .$23.00 

Centipode/20 $23.00 

Froggee(20/64) $23. OO 

CREATIVE SOFTWARE 

Astro Blitz $32.00 

Slack Hole $32.00 

Trashman $32.00 

Home Finance $27.00 

Home Inventory $1 3,00 

UMI 

Amok S30.0O 

Meteor Run $40,00 

Alien Blitz $30. OO 

Viterm A $16,00 

The Alien $16.00 



CBM 6-4 

$369 

VIC so 

$99. 



. 5599.00 



B4K Upgrade Kit . . . SEGB.OO 

BOOB S81900 

BOOS S999.DO 

B-1 SB S769.00 

B-SSB $889.00 

4D3B SS9S.OO 

4064 sees. 00 

e031 £899. OO 

BOBO SB49.00 

BBSO SI 199.00 

9oeo(5Meg.HD) ...$1999.00 
90BO|7.5MegHD| . . . sbi 9S.ao 

4DC3 S 379.00 

BOB3 8BB9.00 

64QO Let Gual. Print. . . Si 399.00 

Spall M eater S149.00 

ZOam addsCP/M &64K . . . SB4S.OO 

Silicon Office $749.00 

Csic Result SIBB.OO 

The Manager SS09.00 

Trie Boft Rom S1S9.00 

Jiniam aoaC/BI CALL 

ad a 1 boo:: BM to Parl.lnt....B3B9.00 
AOA1 ISO CBM to Ser lnt...S99.00 

RROFE8BIONAL 
SOFTWARE 

Power S79.00 

Info Pro $199 00 

Word Pro 2 Plus $159,00 

Word Pro 3 Plus $199,00 

Word Pro 4 Plus $299.00 

Word Pro 5 Plus $299.00 

Admtnistator $379.00 

Word Pro 64 $69 95 

Spell Checker CALL 

CARDCO 
VIC BO/CBU 84 

Light Pen $32.00 

Cassette Interface $29. OO 

Parallel Printer Interface $64.00 

3SlotExpans.lnterface<20only)... $32.00 

6Slot Expans.lnterface(20only)... $79.00 

HE8 

Shamus (ROM) $29.00 

Protector (ROM) $32.00 

Robot Panic (ROM) $29 00 

Pirates (ROM) $29.00 

HES Writer (ROM) $29.00 



Call on our Large Selection of 
VIC 20 & C-64 Software, such as: 
EPYX, Microtspec, Quick Brown Fox and 
Kansas City Software. 




•■■■■■■■■1 



■■■■■■■■» - 
■ hi eg . east gi ll c^, c 



PC-15DO 
POCKET COMPUTER 

SI S3. 

PC125Q SS9.QO 




CE1 50 Printer. Plotter and 

Cassette Interface Unit SI 72.00 

CE1 52 Cassette Recorder . $62.00 
CE1 558K Ram Expans Mod. . $94 .OO 
CE125 Printer/Micro Cass. .$129.00 
Statistics Pack $49 00 



computer mail order east 



Circle 97 on inquiry card. 




In PA call [71 7J327-3575, Oept.7Q1, 477 E. 3rd St., Williamsport, PA 1 7701 



international ORDERS: All shipments outside the Continental United States must be pre-paid by certified check only. Include 3% (minimum 
$3.00) shipping and handling, educational discounts: Additional discounts are available from both Computer Mail Order locations to qualified 
Educational Institutions, apo s fpo: Add minimum $5.00 shipping and handling. 



computer mail order 




Call for price and information 

on the NEW FRANKLIN 

Computers! 

Disk Drives, Software and 

System Specials 

ALSO AVAILABLE! 



MfCRO-SCI 

DISK DRIVES FOR 
APPLE & FRANKIN 

A2 $269.00 

A40 $349.00 

A70 $459.00 

C2 Controller $79.00 

C47 Controller $89-00 

RAIMA DIBK DRIVES 

Elite 1 plus (Apple/ Frankly CALL 

1 000 (Atari) CALL 

AMDEK DISK DRIVES 

Amdisk I. 3" Mini Disk for 

Apple M A Me $229.00 



SYSCOM 

48K Color Computir 
APPLE COMPATIBLE 

$599. 

VIBICORP 

for Appla.lBFVI & Franklin 

VISUM* $189.00 

Vis il lie $1 89.00 

Visiplot $ 1 59.00 

Vislterm $89.00 

Visitrend/Plot $229.00 

VisiSchedule S229.00 

Desktop Plan S 189 00 

Visicalc(Apptell.CBM.IBM) . . $1 79.0O 
Viaicorp prices for IBM may very slightly. 

BRODERBUND 

Apple Panic $23.00 

David's Magic $27.00 

Star Blaier $25.00 

Arcade Machine .. $34.00 

Choplifter $27. DO 

Serpentine $27.00 

INFOCOM 
Deadlin«AP.,ieM.AT.aC-e4) ... $35.00 

Star Cross $29.00 

Zork I. II or HI $29.00 

MPC 
BuMkB (1 28K Non Vol It era) . . . $649.00 

AXLON 

Apple/Franklin 128K Ram $299. 00 

Apple/Franklin Ram Disk.. .$729.00 

KRAFT 

Apple Joystick . $44.00 

CONTINENTAL 

SOFTWARE 

Tax Advantage (Apple/ Atari) . . . $45.00 

Home Accnt. (Appla/Atari). ..$59.00 

1st CI. Mail/Form LatterfAppte) . S79.00 

The Book of Apple $14.95 

The Book of Atari $14.95 

Tha Book of Apple Graphics . .$14.95 



DISK DRIVES FOR ATARI 

AT88-S1 $399.00 

AT88-A 1 $299 .00 

AT88-S2 $649 .00 

RFD40-S1 $549.00 

RFD 40-A1 $349.00 

RFD 40-S2 $889. OO 

RF0 44-S1 $679.00 

RFD 44-S2 $999.00 

FLOPPY DISKS 

MAXELL 

MD l(Boxof 10) $32.00 

M0 ll( Box of 10) $44. 00 

FD I (8") $40.00 

FD II (8- DD) $50.00 

VERBATUM 

5V." SS DD $26.00 

5V." DS DO $36.00 

ELEPHANT 

WW SSSD $18.99 

$W SS DD $24.99 

5V." DS DD $29.99 

HEAD 
Disk Head Cleaner $14.95 

8IRIU8 

Bandits (Apple) $28.00 

Beer Run (Apple) $24.00 

Free Fall (Apple) $24. 00 

Sneakers (Apple) $24. 00 

Snake Byte (Apple) $24.00 

Fast Eddie (Atari) $21.00 

Turmoil (Atari) $21 .00 

Deadly Duck (VIC) $21.00 

INTERFACES & 
ACCESSORIES 

80 Column Apple Card $159.00 

Apple Peral. Printer Interfece . . . $69.00 
Atari 850 to Pa ral. Printer Cable ... $29.00 

RS232-RS232 Cables $29. 00 

Centronics Pa ral. -Paral. Cable* . . . $29 00 
Call on IBM, Osborne, Daisywhter, 
Atari, Commodore. Apple and Franklin 
Interface Cards, Cables and Accessories. 



HEWLETT 
PACKARD 




HP75...$749. 

HP41C $146.00 

HP 10C $52. OO 

HP11C $69. OO 

HP 12C $90. OO 

HP15C $90.00 

HP 1 6C $90.00 

Far HP41/41CV 

HPIL Module $99. OO 

HPIL Cassette or Printer. .. .$359. OO 

Card Reader S1 44.00 

Extended Functions Module. . .S64.00 

Time Module $64. OO 

Mathmatica Pac $26.50 

Real Estate Pac $40.00 



HOME COMPUTERS 




4QO-16K 



S99. 



Our Price S1 49.00, Get $50.00 rebate direct from Atari 

6DOXL-1 6K SI *»S. 




800-48K $389. 

Our Price $489.00, Get $100.00 rebate direct from Atari! 

1 SOO-64K S449. 

Our Price $549.00, Get $100.00 rebate from Ata ri | 



ATARI 400 
VERSIONS 

32K...S174. 

48K...$199, 
64K...S259. 

::: Non-Atari Ram 



810 Disk Drive $419.00 

Inhom* Keyboerd/Ateri 400. . . $39.00 

1010 Program Recorder $74. OO 

1 02040 Column Print/Plot . . . $269.00 
1025 80 Column Printer ... .$469.00 
1027Lett*rQualityPrint*r...S299.OO 
1050 Double Density Drive. . . S3 79 00 

830 Acoustic Modem $1 59.00 

850 Interface Module $169.00 

CX40 Pair Joysticks $1 6.00 

CX4 i 8 Home Manager Kit . . . S89.00 

CX419 Bookkeeper Kit $195.00 

CX482 Fducator Kit $129.00 

CX463 Programmer Kit $54.00 

CX488 Communicator Kit . . . $229.00 

CX7101 Entertainer Kit $69.00 

Invitation to Programming I .. .$18.00 
Invitation to Programming II . . . $20.00 
Invitation to Prog ramming III... $20. OO 

4002 Basic Language $42.00 

4003 Assembler Editor $47. OO 

8121 Micro Assembler S69.00 

8128 Micro Soft $69.00 

405 Pilot (Edu.) $105.00 

401 8 Pilot (Home) $72.00 

8036 Atari Writer $79.00 

404 Word Processor $119.00 

5059 Viaicalc $159.00 

ATARI 

Pacman $33. OO 

Centipede $33. OO 

Defender $33.00 

Galaxian $33. OO 

Missile Command $29.00 

Star Raiders $33.00 

Caverns of Mars $32. OO 

Dig Dug $33.00 

Donkey Kong CALL 

E.T. Phone Home $39. OO 

Eastern Front (1941) $39.00 

QIX $33.00 

Supermen III $39.00 

Star Trux S33.00 

Asteroids $29.00 

Basketball $29. OO 

Computer Chess $29.00 

Juggles House $23.00 

My First Alphabet $29.00 

APX 

Text Formatter $18.50 

Family Budgeter $18.50 

Eastern Front $24. OO 

Family Cash $1 8.50 

Jukebox $1 3. 50 

Downhill $18.50 

Outlaw SI B. 50 

Holy Grail $24.00 

Player Piano $18.50 

Keyboard Orgen $1 8.50 

Number Bleat $1 3.50 

Frogmaster $18.50 

747 Land Simulater $18.50 

Bumper Pool $13.50 



ON-LINE 

Jawbreaker $27.00 

Sottporn $2 7 .OO 

Wiierd and Princess $29.00 

The Next Step $34.00 

Mission Asteroid $22. OO 

Mouskattack $31 .OO 

Frogger $31.00 

Cross Fire (ROM) $36. OO 

Some ON-LINE Products are also 

available for Apple A IBM. 

Call for information! 

SYNAPSE 

File Manager 800 plus $69.00 

Chicken (ROM) $34.00 

Picnic Paranoia (ROM) $34.00 

Claim Jumper (ROM) $34.00 

Slima (ROM) $34.00 

Shamus (ROM) $34.00 

Protector (ROM) $34.00 

Dodge Racer (C/D) $26.00 

Nautilus (C/D) $26 00 

Shadow World (C/D) $26.00 

Survivor (C/D) $26.00 

Drelbs (C/D) $26.00 

Necromancer (C/D) $26.00 

Pharohs Curse (C/D) $26.00 

Fort Apocalypse (C/D) $26.00 

Assembler $30.00 

OATABOFT 

Pacific Coast Highway $25.00 

Canyon Climber $25.00 

Tumble Bugs SI 9.00 

Shooting Arcade $1 9.00 

Clowns and Balloons $25. OO 

Graphic Master $30.00 

Graphic Generator . , Si 3.00 

Micro Painter $25.00 

Text Wizard $59.00 

Spell Wizard $39.00 

Bishop's Square $25. OO 

Sands of Egypt $25.00 

Moon Shuttle $25.00 

Zaxxon $29.00 

$59.00 



Basic Compiler 

ALIEN 

Atari Voice Box $119 00 

Apple Voice Box $149.00 

MEMORY 

Axlon 32K Ram $65.00 

Axlon 48K Ram $109.00 

Axlon 128K Ram $299.00 

Intec 32K Board $74. OO 

Intec 48K Board $99.00 

intec 64K Board (400 only) . . $1 49 OO 
JOYSTICKS 

Wico Joystick S24.95 

Famous Red Ball S26.95 

Apple Trackball $59.00 

Atari/VIC Trackball $55. OO 

Apple Adaptor $ 1 6 .OO 



CBS 

K-razy Shoot Out $29.00 

K-razy Kritters $29. OO 

K-razy Antics S29.00 

Kstar Patrol $29. OO 

Stick Stand $3.99 

EPYX 
Crush. Crumble A Chomp $24. OO 

Crypt of the Undead $24.00 

Curse of Ra $16.00 

Oatestones A Ryn $16.00 

Invasion Orion S19.O0 

King Arthurs Hair $24. OO 

Morloc's Tower $16.00 

Rescue at Rigel $24. OO 

Ricoc het $ 1 6.00 

Star Warrior $29. OO 

Temple of Apshai $29 OO 

Upper Reaches of Apshai $1 6.00 

SPINNAKER 

Snooper Troops « 1 $34. OO 

Snooper Troops * 2. $34. OO 

Face Maker $24. OO 

Story Machine $24.00 

Delta Drawing S45.00 

Rhymes and Riddles $2100 

Kindercomp $21 .00 

ROKLAN 

Wizard of War (ROM) $34. OO 

Deluxe Invader (ROM) $29. OO 

Gorf (ROM) $34 OO 

FIRST STAR 

Astro Chese $25 OO 

BIB S 

Miner 49er . 535.00 

OAMEBTAR 

Baja Buggies $24.95 

Football $24 95 

BUDQECO 

Raster Blaster S24.95 

L.J.K. 
Letter Perfect 40/80 Col. Disk. . SI 09.00 
Letter Perfect 40 Col. ROM . .$179.00 
Letter Perfect 80 Col ROM . ..$179.00 
Data Perfect 40/60 Col Disk $99 . OO 

Mail Merge $21 .95 

CALL FOR APPLE/LJK PRODUCTS 

BIT 3 

60 Col. Card for Atari 800 $249.00 

INTEC 
Real Time Clock S39.00 

We also stock software by: 
Adventure International, 
Eduware. Creative Soft- 
ware, Dorsett Educational, 
IDSI, Romox and Artworx. 
Call for details and prices 



COmpiltBr mail Order WeSt Circle 97 on inquiry card. 

800-648-331 1 ■»■-•- 



__ | ^^^ , | ___ _ , , V/SA' 

In NV call [702)588-5654, Dept. 701, P.O. Box BBSS, Stateline, NV 89448 

No risk, no deposit on C.O.D. orders. Pre-paid orders receive free shipping within the UPS Continental United States with no waiting period for certified 
checks or money orders. Add 3% (minimum $3.00) shipping and handling on all C.O.D. and credit card orders. Larger shipments may require additional 
charges. NVand PA residents add sales tax. All items subject to availability and price change, note: We stock manufacturer's and third party software for 
most all computers on the market. Call today for our new catalog. 



Book Reviews 



The Handbook 
of Artificial 
Intelligence, 
Volume 1 

Avron Barr and Edward 
Feigenbaum, eds. 
William Kaufman Inc. 
Los Altos, CA, 1981 
409 pages, $30 

Reviewed by 
Henry W. Davis 
Computer Science Dept. 
Wright State University 
Dayton, OH 45435 



The Handbook of Artifi- 
cial Intelligence is a monu- 
mental compendium of infor- 
mation that will be a basic 
reference for people in artifi- 
cial intelligence (AI) and re- 
lated fields for some time to 
come. This three-volume 
series, more than six years in 
the making, combines con- 
tributions from over a hun- 
dred researchers in AI. Yet 
the style of editing provides a 
cohesiveness and homogenei- 
ty that make for fascinating 
cover-to-cover reading. 

The stated goals of the 
treatise are "to present jar- 
gon-free explanations of AI 
programming techniques and 
concepts" as they were moti- 
vated historically and scienti- 
fically. It attempts to address 
professionals who are not 
specialists in AI nor even nec- 
essarily in computing. In the 
first volume, at least, these 
goals have been achieved. 

Volume 1 covers search 
routines, knowledge repre- 
sentation, and understanding 
natural language — written 
and spoken. Volumes 2 and 
3, which will be reviewed in 
future issues, cover the other 
main divisions of AI. 

Organization within the 
chapters is "top-down." Each 
chapter starts with an article 
giving an overview of a ma- 



jor topic. Follow-up articles 
focus on key aspects of the 
problem. Most chapters con- 
clude with several articles 
describing particular AI pro- 
jects in detail, bringing the 
whole discussion down to 
earth. The articles naturally 
connect if you read the book 
from beginning to end — a 
fine way to obtain a general 
understanding of AI. 

An important aspect of this 
series is the system of refer- 
ences and cross-references. 
You may go directly to a 
chapter of interest, where 
you will find references to 
other Handbook articles that 
clarify or elaborate on the 
topic at hand. Annotated ref- 
erences to outside literature 
cite sources that enlarge on 
basic ideas and research 
papers (up to 1980). 

The list of chapter editors, 
contributors, and reviewers 
reads like a who's who in AI. 
Editor Edward Feigenbaum 
has pioneered in AI projects 
since the mid-1960s and is 
chairman of the Stanford 
Computer Science Depart- 
ment. Co-editor Avron Barr 
is a research associate in 
computer science at Stan- 
ford; he is involved in in- 
telligent, computer-based in- 
structional systems and the 
use of "meta-knowledge" in 
AI systems. 

The Handbook editors 
have given careful attention 
to uniformity and compre- 
hensibility. Overall, the qual- 
ity and style are even. How- 
ever, in a few places articles 
are not well connected. For 
example, articles II. Dl and 
II. D2 discuss automatic prov- 
ing in propositional calculus 
in such a way that it's hard to 
relate them to each other. 
The articles are not equally 
easy to read; some of the 
overviews will be hard first- 
reading for the novice. At 
times the technology is so 
sophisticated that only its 
flavor can be given. 



Search 

Search routines, described 
in Chapter II of the Hand- 
book, are often a major com- 
ponent of AI problem-solv- 
ing systems. For example, 
search techniques are used to 
look for the best move in skill 
games like chess or checkers. 
They are also used to prove 
theorems, to generate robot 
plans, and in a host of scien- 
tific applications. 

State space searching is 
best described in terms of a 
simple puzzle. The Hand- 
book uses a classic exam- 
ple — the 8-puzzle, shown in 
figure 1. The square array has 
eight numbered tiles and one 
vacant space. By sliding the 
tiles vertically or horizontally 
into the vacant space, you get 
different configurations or 
stores of the puzzle. Figure 2 
shows a typical start state 
and a number of states that 
can be obtained from it. Fig- 
ure 3 shows a possible goal 
state. In working the puzzle, 
you search for the goal by 
moving the puzzle from the 
start state through a number 
of intermediate states. The 
moves, represented by the 
descending lines in figure 2, 
are called operators. 

In the general situation, a 
problem is viewed as having 
a start state, a goal state, and 
a number of operators that 
are used to move the problem 
from one state to another. A 
search program attempts to 
move from the start state to 
the goal state by successive 
applications of the operators. 
In blind searches, the order in 
which potential solution 
paths are explored is indepen- 
dent of the problem domain. 
Such routines are not useful 
for hard problems due to a 
combinatorial explosion: they 
use up computer time and 
space resources before they 
find a solution. The most ef- 
fective search techniques use 
domain-specific information 
in a heuristic fashion: the 



program compares intermedi- 
ate states with the goal state 
and makes an informed guess 
as to which state is nearest. 
Paths passing through this 
conjectured near state are ex- 
plored first. For example, in 
the 8-puzzle the program 
might conjecture that states 
with the fewest number of 
tiles out of place are the least 
number of moves away from 
the goal. 

Another important search 
technique is problem reduc- 
tion, in which problems are 
decomposed via operators 
into more easily solved sub- 
problems. It is understood 
that, in order to solve the 
original problem, each of the 
subproblems must be solved. 
Subproblems are themselves 
further decomposed and the 
process continues until a so- 
lution situation is found. As 
before, blind searching is not 
effective, and heuristic meth- 
ods have been developed. 
Several programs exemplify 
these techniques: Slagle's 
SAINT performs symbolic in- 
tegration; Gelernter's geom- 
etry machine proves theo- 
rems in high school geomet- 
ry; and Nilsson, Fike, and 
Sacerdoti have achieved im- 
pressive success in the area of 
robot planning. 

Searching is the major 
component in current pro- 
grams that play games like 
checkers, chess, or go. Such 
programs perform about as 
well as skilled humans in 
checkers, close but not as 
well in chess, and much 
worse in go. Moves are deter- 
mined by searching part of a 
game tree, a structure that 
keeps track of potential 
future moves by the com- 
puter and its opponent. If the 
whole game tree were ex- 
panded, the computer could 
see all possible moves and 
would always win. However, 
for interesting games this is 
not feasible because it would 
result in a combinatorial ex- 



450 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 105 on inquiry card. 



AN ASTRONOMICAL VALUE AND 

r//EUMll\ TCN2& 



k 



PRINTERS 



CALL: (303)279-2848 or (800)525-7877 



&B 



Mi 



! 



v.w f 



•s«w 



THE COMPUTER LINE, INC. 

GOLDEN, COLORADO 
Offer void outside the Milky Way 



Book Reviews. 



plosion. Successful game- 
playing programs perform a 
search that involves many 
heuristics. One important 
area for heuristics concerns 
what portion of the game tree 
should be generated. Another 
concerns how to evaluate the 
board positions on the tree 
and translate this into a good 
move choice. 



Knowledge 
Representation 

Search strategies are a part 
of many problem-solving sys- 
tems. But how does one rep- 
resent the basic knowledge 
needed to implement these 
strategies? This is the concern 
of knowledge representation, 
the most active area of AI re- 
search. 

A variety of knowledge- 
representation techniques is 
surveyed in Chapter III. Al- 
though parts of this material 
are available in other sources, 



no other current AI text has 
isolated and presented this in- 
formation as a single coher- 
ent topic. 

An early and still used 
method of representing 
knowledge in AI uses a lan- 
guage called first-order 
predicate calculus. Invented 
by logicians and mathemati- 
cians, this is a formal, flexible 
language ideal for represent- 
ing precise information. 
Predicate calculus has several 
advantages. Automatic de- 
duction mechanisms exist for 
information expressed in the 
calculus; AI systems using the 
calculus usually contain such 
"theorem provers." Other ad- 
vantages are its clarity and 
the modularity of facts con- 
tained in a predicate calculus 
database. A big problem is 
that a combinatorial explo- 
sion occurs when today's 
theorem provers work with a 
large calculus database. 

Production systems are a 



method of representing 
knowledge that has been very 
successful in scientific and 
engineering applications. 
Knowledge is represented via 
"situation-action" rules. 
These rules, or productions, 
have the form "if this condi- 
tion is true, then take this ac- 
tion." A modern AI system 
using this approach may have 
hundreds of such rules in its 
database. A control system 
determines which rules are 
applicable to a problem state 
and chooses from among 
them. Essentially, produc- 
tions act like operators. AI 
researchers have found that 
large amounts of useful 
human knowledge can be put 
into this IF. . .THEN format. 
Successful rule-based systems 
have been written in such 
diverse areas as medical diag- 
nostics, mathematical dis- 
covery, and computer con- 
figuration design. Current 
research focuses on questions 



of rule structure and proper 
control design. 

A number of fascinating 
knowledge representation 
constructs are illustrated in 
the work of Roger Schank 
and his colleagues. Articles in 
Chapters III and IV of the 
Handbook describe different 
aspects of Schank 's research. 
His programs process sen- 
tences and stories written in 
"natural language" (the lan- 
guage people use when com- 
municating to each other; for 
example, English or Chinese). 
His programs demonstrate 
understanding of what they 
have read by paraphrasing it, 
answering questions about it, 
or translating it into another 
natural language. For exam- 
ple, a program called SAM 
was presented with these sen- 
tences: 

John went to a restaurant. He 
sat down. He got mad. He 
left. 



4 


3 


5 


2 


6 




8 


1 


7 



Figure 1: The classic 8-puzzle. 



4 


3 


5 


2 


1 


6 




8 


7 



4 


3 


5 




1 


6 


2 


8 


7 



4 


3 


5 




2 


6 


8 


1 


7 



4 


3 


5 


2 


1 


6 


8 




7 






4 


3 


5 


2 




6 


8 


1 


7 






4 




5 


2 


3 


6 


8 


1 


7 



1 


2 


3 


8 




4 


7 


6 


5 



Figure 3: A possible goal 
state of the 8-puzzle. 



4 


3 


5 


2 


1 


6 


8 


7 





4 


3 


5 


2 


6 




8 


1 


7 



4 


3 


5 


2 


1 




8 


7 


6 



Figure 2: A possible start state and several derivation states of the 8-puzzle. 

452 July 1«»3 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Computerize 
without changing a 



To automate your business, don't change all your familiar business forms. Change to VersaForm. 

VersaForm fills out your present forms very much the way you do. Only faster. And (if you'll pardon 
the expression) more accurately. Why, it even prints on forms of your own design. 

Then VersaForm stores this information. Alphabetically and numerically. Which means, you now 
have a data base that can track your business. Product by product. Customer by customer. And month 
by month. 

Also, VersaForm prints the kind of reports that help manage your business, within today's tighter 
profit margins. Like sales reports based on familiar information. Information that VersaForm tabulates, 
automatically. 

What's more, VersaForm automatically checks for errors. Something that doesn't happen when 
people fill out forms manually. 

Your people are familiar with your forms. So are your customers. Why change a good thing? 

Form management is business management. 

Another fine product from Applied Software Technology: 170 Knowles Drive, Los Gatos, Calif. 95030 (408) 370-2662 



Circle 33 on inquiry card. 






BYTE July 1983 453 



Circle 468 on inquiry card. 



i^L 



HIGH SPEED PRINTERS ONLY $199.00 
(Centronics 101 A) 

(1980 List Price: $4800.00) (Refurbished with 90 Day Warranty) 

9x7 Dot Matrix • 1 65 Characters Per Second • Muibstrike and 

Expanded Print • 4* to 1 5" Adjustable Forms Width • Lower Case 

and Graphics Option Available * Standard Centronics Parallel Input 

• Cables/Adapters Available for Radio Shack, Apple, IBM, 

Commodore, and most other personal computers. 






COMPUTER TERMINALS ONLY $450.00 

(1983) List Price: $1200.00) (15% Discount on orders of 5 + ) 

Hazeltine 1421 80 column by 24 line display • ADM3 Emulation 

• Consul 580 Emulation • Upper/Lower Case Characters with 

descenders • Numeric Keypad • Cursor Control Pad • On Screen 

Editing • Dual Intensity • Auto Repeat Keys • 2 YEAR 

WARRANTY 




"ACE1200 LIST: $2495.00 

OUR PRICE: $1699.00 

Color • 1 28K RAM • Upper/1_ower Case on screen • Serial/Parallel 
Interfaces • Cursor Key Pad • Numeric Keypad • 6Mhz CP/M Z-80 
Card (The Fastest CP/M Card available) • 80 Columns • Disk Drive 
and Controller • Standard Spaced Keyboard * Apple II Compatible 



Gorilla/Banana (Gorilla Tough) $225.00 

50 Characters Per Second • Upper/Lower Case Characters • Dot Addressable Graphics 
• Parallel Interface • Compatible with most personal computers 

$365.00 C. ITOH PROWR1TER 120 CPS • Dot Addressable • 
1 YR. Warranty (Software Character Sets Available for ACE & 
Apple II Computers) 

$ 1599.00 C. ITOH PRINT/MASTER 55 CPS • Letter Quality • 
Superscript/Subscript • One Full Year Warranty • (LIST PRICE: 
$1995.00) 

$30.00 KEYBOARDS (Apple Compatible) ASCII Encoded, Hall 

Effect, Normally Spaced Keys, Upper/Lower Case by 

^Aicroswitch.__ ,__ ,__ .______———_ _ 

~ ~ ~" (All Packing and Shipping FOB Bethlehem, PA) 

A.C.E. Systems 

106E. Broad St., Bethlehem, PA 18018 

(215) 348-8250 • 867-5066 

(Add 3% to all Master Card/Visa orders. . .NO COD Orders! 



DECADES OF SERVICE 



Washington Computer Services 

97 Spring St. , NewYork, NY10012 — « «<^S? l 2£JSf;») »*» 

TOORDER: Call our toll-free number: (800)221-5416. In NY State and 
for technical information: (212)226-2121. Hours:9AM-5:30PM(EST) 
Monday-Friday TELEX: 12-5606 CABLE: WASHCOMP NYK 




SEC 



PC-8800 



I m m 



The Professional's Workstation 
We feel that this uniquely 
versatile graphics work 
station offers a most cost 
effective microcomputer 
solution. 

Please call for prices 
and a demonstration. 
NEC on NYS OGS Contract #P-07220 



INCLUDES: 
•CP/M 

•MBASIC-80,86 
•WORDSTAR 
•MULTIPLAN 
•HIGH RES. (640x400) 
CAD/CAM GRAPHICS 
•MONOCHROME & RGB COLOR 
•5V."* 8" DISK DRIVES 

OPTIONAL: 
•8 MHz 8086, 16 BIT 
•HARD DISK DRIVE 
•SPEECH SYNTH. & RECOG. 
•LIGHT PEN 



pi r a Q r | Do not conluse us with mail order dealers. We are a lull service distributor 
r LCHoL: serving the data processing & installation needs of business & industry 
from micros to mainframes. System houses, educational institutions & governmental agen- 
cies given special consideration. Leasing available. N.Y. State agencies, municipalities, 
and schools— call us for information on our O.G.S. term contracts on hardware & software. 

Please call to make an appointment tor demonstration of ttiis extraordinary computer at our showroom. 
Prices subject to change without notice, call for latest prices. Prices include 3% cash discount. N.Y. 
residents add sales tax. CP/M° is a trademark of Digital Research. All sales subject to our standard 
sale conditions {available on request). Above prices do not include customization or installation. 



Book Reviews. 



SAM paraphrased the story 
as follows: 

John was hungry. He decided 
to go to a restaurant. He 
went to one. He sat down in a 
chair. A waiter did not go to 
the table. John became upset. 
He decided he was going to 
leave the restaurant. He left 
it. 

Notice that SAM has made a 
lot of inferences. 

Schank's programs first 
translate the input into con- 
ceptual dependency (CD), a 
symbolism that represents the 
semantic content of the origi- 
nal sentence or story. CD 
represents concepts in a 
fashion independent of their 
various natural-language de- 
scriptions. Reasoning about 
stories is done from their CD 
representation. Translating is 
done by first going to CD and 
then to the target language. 
CD is built from a small num- 
ber of semantic primitives, 
symbols that represent only 
the most basic notions. The 
problem of finding appropri- 
ate primitives is a common 
one in knowledge-representa- 
tion schemes. 

One knowledge-represen- 
tation device used by 
Schank's programs is called a 
script. This is a standardized 
sequence of events that de- 
scribe some stereotypical 
human activity, such as going 
to a restaurant or visiting a 
doctor. The program tries to 
match a story fragment with 
a script, filling in script 
details from the story and de- 
faulting information not in 
the story from the script 
itself. SAM used a restaurant 
script to help it "understand" 
and make inferences in the 
previous example. A varia- 
tion of scripts, called frames, 
has been used by other re- 
searchers. 

Scripts are not always ade- 
quate to understand stories. 
Schank has introduced other 
knowledge-representation 
structures called goals, plans, 



and themes. These help a 
program better understand a 
story by analyzing the moti- 
vations of its characters. 



Natural Language 

Writing programs that re- 
spond correctly to written 
natural language has been a 
goal of AI researchers since 
the early 1960s. The view is 
that such programs will be 
practical and, in addition, 
their development will lead to 
better understanding of both 
language and the nature of in- 
telligence. Current natural- 
language (NL) programs per- 
form acceptably, at their 
best, in limited domain situa- 
tions. For example, programs 
that translate from one 
natural language to another 
produce mostly correct, but 
not elegant, output when the 
subject domain is restricted to 
one in which the program has 
been well briefed. Useful 
natural-language front-ends 
for such purposes as database 
interaction exist. They work 
best when both the allowed 
grammatical constructs and 
the domain of discourse are 
limited. 

Parsing, or analyzing the 
grammatical construct of the 
input, is a basic aspect of NL 
processing. Input sentences 
are broken into such units as 
nouns, verbs, prepositional 
phrases, etc. This enables the 
semantics (i.e. meaning) of 
the sentences to be more 
transparent. The syntax, or 
grammatically allowed form 
of the input language, is 
specified by a set of rules 
called a grammar. There are 
many grammars, some suit- 
able for natural languages 
and others only for program- 
ming languages, and many 
approaches to parsing. A 
very readable overview of 
this subject is presented in 
Chapter IV of the Handbook. 

Approaches to NL process- 
ing are evolving rapidly. The 
first systems that could han- 
dle genuinely flexible English 



454 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 439 on inquiry card. 



LSI 11/23 PLUS COMPUTERS 
WITH UP TO 4 MEGABYTES RAM MEMORY 






CI- 103 

CI- 11/23 AC 

CI- 11/03 LK 
CI-520 







DESKTOP COMPUTER — Complete computer system enclosed within a VT103 video terminal with 

LSI 11/2 and 64KB Memory 

With LSI 11/23 and 256KB Memory 

With LSI 11/23 PLUS and 1 Megabyte Memory 

LSI 11/23 CPU with MMU, 256K byte RAM Memory. Power supply, 8x4 backplane, in a rack 

mountable chassis 

Same with LSI 11/23 PLUS and 1 Megabyte Memory 

LSI 11/2 CPU with 64K byte RAM Memory. Power supply, fixed and floating point instruction set 

(KEV11) and 8x4 backplane in a rack mountable chassis 

10 Megabyte Winchester with 2 Megabyte &%" floppy RX02/RL02 or RX50/WD50 emulation .... 




$3100.00 
$4100.00 
$5395.00 

$2675.00 
$4395.00 

$1845.00 
$3995.00 



256KB TO 1 MEGABYTE OF MEMORY ON A DUAL WIDTH CARD 

• On board parity generator with CSR 

• Addressable as a contiguous block in 256KB increments 

• Battery back-up mode 
SINGLE QTY. PRICE: 256KB 



$ 595.00 





CI- 1240- WF 42 Megabyte Winchester disk system with controller 
and 2MB floppy backup $6995.00 



CI-1220-TF Dual drive, double density, double sided, 2MB 
capacity floppy plus DMA LSI 11 controller 
occupying 3'/ 2 " of vertical space . . . $2695.000 



DON'T ASK WHY WE CHARGE SO LITTLE, ASK WHY THEY CHARGE SO MUCH. 



€ 



Chrislin Industries, Inc. 

31352 Via Colinas • Westlake Village, CA 91362 

Telephone: 213-991-2254 • TWX 910-494-1253 CHRISLIN WKVG 



LSI and DEC's are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation 



70 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 455 



Book Reviews. 



in a limited domain were the 
LUNAR system of William 
Woods and SHRDLU by 
Terry Winograd, both devel- 
oped in the early 1970s. In 
SHRDLU, for example, a 
number of features combined 
for success and pointed the 
direction for further research: 
parsing emphasized seman- 
tically meaningful units 
rather than the traditional 
grammatical ones, the pars- 
ing process itself manipulated 
data structures additional to 
the grammatical rules nor- 
mally manipulated, and se- 
mantic routines aided in pars- 
ing so that syntax and seman- 
tics were no longer separate. 
SHRDLU had a great deal of 
knowledge about the dis- 
course domain and used this 
knowledge during all phases 
of input processing. Separate 
articles in the Handbook 
detail SHRDLU, LUNAR, 
and other important NL sys- 
tems. 

Current directions in NL 
processing are described in 
the Handbook and illustrated 
by several systems. Semantic 
and syntactic analysis are in- 
creasingly merged. For exam- 
ple, in "semantic grammars" 
the semantic entities are 
moved directly into the gram- 
mar. LIFER, Hendrix's ver- 



satile system that provides 
natural-language front-ends 
for software packages, uses 
this. In Roger Schank's pro- 
grams the traditional parser is 
replaced by a routine that 
converts the input directly 
into a semantic structure 
(CD) without using the usual 
theory of grammars. Knowl- 
edge-representation struc- 
tures like frames and scripts 
make it possible for a pro- 
gram to use expectations in 
its processing of sentences. 
Knowing what is likely to be 
said, in light of what is being 
talked about and what has 
already been said, greatly 
reduces the number of possi- 
ble meanings of a sentence. 
This is called expectation- 
driven processing. 



Spoken Language 

The Handbook describes 
major speech-understanding 
systems that came out during 
the mid-1970 s. Many of the 
concepts of these programs 
are illustrated by the HARPY 
and HEARSAY systems, 
both written at Carnegie- 
Mellon University. In pro- 
cessing spoken language, a 
major problem is identifying 
words; connected speech 
signals do not look at all like 



the concatenation of signals 
of the individual words. 

In HARPY, a network was 
precompiled with "sounds" at 
each node connected to all 
the sounds that can follow it 
in any of the legal sentences 
in the language. Interpreting 
an utterance corresponds to 
finding a path through the 
network representing a se- 
quence of sounds that most 
closely matches the sounds in 
the utterance. The problem 
of finding the optimal path is 
a search problem to which 
heuristics were applied. 
HARPY worked fast and 
quite reliably but did pose 
problems: the precompiled 
network may require vast 
computer resources when the 
vocabulary is large; HARPY 
is relatively sensitive to miss- 
ing acoustical segments and 
words because it does not 
take account of meaning to 
constrain search. 

In HEARSAY, indepen- 
dent knowledge sources 
(KSs), routines that analyze 
phonetics, syntax, semantics 
and the like, looked at the 
speech signal and posted 
hypotheses about likely 
syllables, words and phrases 
on a global data structure 
called the blackboard. Hypo- 
theses from lower-level KSs, 



about syllables and words, 
were examined for syntactic 
and semantic feasibility by 
upper-level KSs. Upper-level 
knowledge sources could also 
post on the blackboard sug- 
gestions about what words 
might be expected. Hypothe- 
ses were scored, and a sched- 
uling routine expanded high- 
scoring hypotheses before 
low-scoring ones. Much of 
the processing is expectation- 
driven. This approach has 
proven fruitful. 

HEARSAY has been a very 
influential program in AI due 
to its architecture. Its modu- 
larity allows different KSs 
and control strategies to be 
easily tested. The indepen- 
dence of the KSs allows for a 
parallel-processing version to 
be designed. The architecture 
has been used for several pro- 
grams outside of speech un- 
derstanding, for example 
crystallography, signal inter- 
pretation, and vision. 



Conclusion 

The AI community has 
been carrying on a dialogue 
with itself for 25 years. This 
needed book presents AI in 
perspective and makes it ac- 
cessible to others in com- 
puting. ■ 



TRUE 16 BIT PROCESSING 

• Z8001 Microprocessor (upgradable to Z8003) 

• 2 Kx16 Eprom with Monitor Program 

(E ! Rom optional) 

• 16 Vectored Interrupts 

• Full IEEE- 696 (S100) Compliance 

• AlfZ8001 Features available 

• Battery backup time of day clock 

• Requires RAM capable ot word transfers 

• CP/M8000 Coming Soon 

•Model M8000 CPU Board ( 425°° 

•Model M8000 EE optional E ? Rom s 75 OD 

Memory Management Companion Card available 3rd Quarter 19B3 



Si 



To Order: 

Call 1-800-821-8858. 
in N.M., 1-505-523-0975 
or write 

Micro Solutions Inc. 

Suite 191 B 

1608 El Paseo Rd. 

Las Cruces, NM 86001 



Include Ck., M.O. or use Master Card 
or Visa. N.M. residents add 4.5% tax. 



Circle 267 on inquiry card. 



SAVE 501 

on 

maxell, y 

DISKETTES •, ■• 



Dealer inquiries invited 

51/i" specify soft 

" '** 10 or 16 Sector prlces/10 

MD1-MH1 1 slde/dbl dens $27.90 

MD2-MH2 2 slde/dbl dens $40.00 

mdi-ddm 1 side/quad 96 tpi $36.50 

MD2-DDM 2 sides/quad 96 tpl $45.50 

8 Specify Soft or 32 Sector 

FD1-FH1 1 slde/sgl or dbl dens. . . $38.90 

FD2-FH2 2 sldes/dbl den $45.50 

Checks-viSA-MC-c.o.D./Add S2 snipping 

Call or write for our discount catalog. 

LYBEN COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

27204 Harper Ave., St. Clair snores, Ml 48081 

Phone: (313) 777-7780 



Maxell. The Gold Standard. 



Circle 240 on inquiry card. 



DISKETTES 

New Product Introduction 

Quantity 100 

SK (Eskei) Price Par Diec(S) 
5 Vi ' SSDD Soft Sector w/hub rings 1 .69 

$y< " DSDD Soft Sector w/hub rings 2.59 

This disc is manufactured by a major media pro- 
ducer and is now being introduced nationally. 
Tested and Certified. Since this disc is not yet a 
brand name" product we are offering it at these 
very attractive prices. 

ULTRA Magnetics 
5 l « " SSDD Soft Sector w/hub rings 1.89 

5 v, ' DSDD Soft Sector w/hub rings 2.79 

This is an ultra-high quality product. Each disc is 
individually tested. Meets and/or surpasses all stan- 
dards for reliability and durability. 

* We have a complete line of all 8" and 5W" 
diskettes available. 

* We offer large discounts on bulk packaged w/o 
envelopes. 

* All diskettes have a lifetime guarantee. 

* We offer quotes for large quantity users. 

* For less than 100 diskettes, add 10% to our quan- 
tity 100 price. 

* Also ask us about our blank video cassettes. 

CALL TOLL FHEE 800 982-2244 
8 AM - 7 PM Mon-Fri. 8 AM - 12 PM Sat 
Checks, Money Order, Visa, Mastercard, — 5% Shipping, 
California residents add 6'A % sales tax. 

Vldiom Media Supply 

500 Airport Boulevard, Suite #422 

Burllngame, CA 94010 415 342-0663 (anytime) 



Circle 433 on inquiry card. 



MAIL-COM Software 

Eliminates the 6 

Costliest Steps of 

Business Mail Preparation 



1. No More Addressing 

2. No More Folding 

3. No More Inserting 

4. No More Affixing 

5. No More Sealing 

6. No More Drop Offs 




I Presenting E-Com. 

Last year the U.S. 
Postal Service quietly 
announced E-Com, 
enabling specially 
equipped personal 
computer users to 
$8Wl bypass costly manual 
— — — — mail preparation, by 
electronically submitting their mes- 
sages and mailing lists directly to the 
Postal Service via modem. 

This high speed computer originated 
mail arrives at its destination within 48 
hours — often less — in an attention- 
grabbing blue E-Com envelope. 

Announcing MAIL-COM. 
Only from Digisoft Computers. 

MAIL-COM is powerful software you 
can use with your personal computer to 
access E-Com. With your personal 
computer, a modem and MAIL-COM 
you can send from 200 to 2000 letters 
per hour for just 26£ each. Typed, 
addressed, folded, inserted, sealed 
and delivered. Complete. 

MAIL-COM even eliminates the 
need to use your expensive letterheads 
and envelopes. 

MAIL-COM is the only interactive soft 
ware available for E-Com operation. It's 
easy to use. Mo special training is nec- 
essary. And since Digisoft Computers 
developed MAIL-COM in accordance 
with U.S. Postal Service specifications, 
users are guaranteed certification for 
Circle 137 on inquiry card. 



use upon purchase of MAIL-COM 
software. 

MAIL-COM is the easiest and most 
economical way to do your mailings. 
And MAIL-COM is compatible 
with Database H™ and Word- 
star™ if you are equipped with 
these programs. If you aren't, 
MAIL-COM includes a complete 
letter editor and address mainte- 
nance program of its own. 

Each letter in your mailing can 
be identical or all can contain variable 
insertions. MAIL-COM operates all the 
features offered by E-Com. 

Thousands of Uses. 

If you have need for fast, economical 
mass mailing capabilities, MAIL-COM 
puts you and E-Com together. 

Use it for 
-8) 



new product 
announcements, 
invitations to 
press events, 
invoicing, fund 
raising, collection, bulletins to 
your sales force, new business prospect- 
ing, reactivation of customers and much, 
much more. Every department in your 
company will have use for MAIL-COM. 

Don't Delay 

With MAIL-COM you could be saving 
time and money on fast, efficient E-Com 
letters. MAIL-COM software is available 
for the IBM PC, Victor, Alpha Micro, 



CP/M, Apple CP/M and other formats. 
Order today. Call 212-734-3875, 
or mail the coupon below. 





Digisoft 

Digisoft Computers, Inc. 

Retail Dealer 
Inquiries Invited 



Digisoft Computers Inc. 
Attn: MAIL-COM Marketing 
1501 Third Avenue 
New York, NY 10028 

□ Yes! I want to eliminate the 6 costliest 
steps in preparing my organization's business 
mail. Please RUSH my MAIL-COM software to 
me immediately. 

I'll need software for: 

□ IBM PC ($195) □ CP/M ($195) 

D Victor ($195) (specify disk format) 

□ Alpha Micro ($495) □ Other (specify) 
D Apple CP/M ($235) 

□ My check or money order is enclosed 
(residents of New York State add sales tax). 

□ Charge my □ Visa or □ MasterCard: 



Account No.. 



_Exp. Date_ 



Name- 



Address. 
City 



State_ 



_Zip_ 



Telephoned 



4- 



© 1983, Digisoft Computers, Inc. 

I j 



po99 ee< to-H't**?*' ^° le* 1 '^ «■ SecrOh.M la /t_<}h a-^e 



«v\e 



IVVO 



MoV* 




s». 



IBM. Apple and CP-'M arc registered trademarks of'IBM Corp., Apple Computers Inc. and Digital Research Corp. respectively. 



For the name of the dealer nearest you, phone (800) 227-2400, ext. 948; in California, (800) 772-2666, ext. 948. For more information 



And now, InfoStar: 

The first DBMS you can use 
without speaking programmerese. 



So put away your GO TOs and 
DO WHILES. 

InfoStar is one microcomputer 
data base system that doesn't ask you to 
write in code. Or learn a programming 
language. Instead you make selections 
from an on-screen menu written in one 
easy language. English. 

Which means you don't have 
to be a programmer or computer jock 
to use it. But, in case you are, there's 
something in it for you, too. 

With InfoStar, you can generate 
a custom application four times faster 
than with other DBMS software. 

Reason being it has a lot of the 
features that made WordStar* the 
standard of the industry. For instance, 
select- as-you-go menus prompt you 
through all procedures. And to format 
a data entry form or report, you simply 
draw it on the screen. 
We've said it before: what 
you see is what you get. 

But, of course, that's 
not all you get. Fact is, 
InfoStar has more 
informative (and 
self documenting) 



capabilities than you've come to expect 
from any microcomputer DBMS. 

Starting with report writing. A 
custom report feature — complete with 
transactional updating and exception 
processing abilities — lets you format, 
manipulate and merge countless differ- 
ent ways. And a quick report feature 
lets you finish faster than you can count 
them — usually in 60 seconds or less. 
Not that you have to slow down 
to sort things out either. Because InfoStar 
can sort five to six times faster than 
any other DBMS in its class. 

And for data entry, there are 
high-end minicomputer features. Like 
batch editing. And 200 editing mask 
combinations, to name a few. 

All that's required of you is that 
you have an IBM PC, Apple II or CP/M 2 
based computer. And that you take a 
trip over to your local 
computer store to ask 
about InfoStar. 

They don't speak 
programmerese. 

But they're happy to 
talk business. 




MicroPro 



The Microcomputer Software Company 



write MicroPro, 33 San Pablo Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94903. (415) 499-1200. Circle 266 on inquiry card. 



The Practical EEPROM 

For less than the price of an EPROM eraser, you can buy 
an EEPROM that doesn't need one 



ROMs, PROMs, and EPROMs are 
quite satisfactory for many applica- 
tions requiring nonvolatile memory. 
They perform best in those areas 
where the information they store is 
never, or almost never, changed. 
When the data must be revised, 
however, problems begin to arise. 
Because ROMs (read-only memories) 
and PROMs (programmable ROMs) 
cannot be reprogrammed, the old 
ones must be discarded and new ones 
programmed to replace them. 
EPROMs (erasable PROMs) such as 
the popular 2716 can be erased and 
then reprogrammed; however, the 
process is not as fast, easy, or inex- 
pensive as one might wish. 

For example, erasing the 2716 re- 
quires an ultraviolet light, and 
although really nothing more than a 
hopped-up fluorescent light bulb, it 
costs at least $70; fancy features such 
as timers increase the price. Consider- 
ing the price of EPROMs on today's 
market— about $5— this eraser hardly 
seems like a wise investment unless 
you intend to reprogram a lot of 
EPROMs or make a lot of changes. 

Then there's the cost of the 
EPROM programmer, a complicated 
piece of equipment that sometimes in- 



by Louis Wheeler 

corpora tes a microprocessor. Prices 
for this little gadget start at around 
$280. The total cost comes to about 
$355 just to put your system monitor 
in nonvolatile memory. And you 
must also consider software costs: 
special software is almost always re- 
quired to program and verify 
EPROMs. 

EPROM programming also takes 
time — a lot of time: time to create the 
software (or data) that goes into the 
EPROM and time to program the 
EPROM. It is also likely that you will 
need time to erase the EPROM (about 
half an hour), because it is inevitable 
that there will be a bug. After all, "to 
err is human," and programmers are 
only human. I have a monitor that 
I've used for several years that still 
has a bug in it. A small one, only one 
byte needs changing, but I don't have 
an eraser. 

If costs, time, or complex circuits 
have kept you away from EPROM 
programming, hang tight, help is here 
in the form of an EEPROM (elec- 
trically erasable programmable read- 
only memory). An EEPROM (also 
abbreviated E 2 PROM) can be erased 
without the hopped-up fluorescent 
light bulb; it doesn't even have to be 



removed from the circuit. 

On-chip Timing 

EEPROMs have been around for a 
number of years; however, the early 
ones were expensive, required a lot of 
trick circuitry, were slow for both 
read and write operations, and had 
other problems that prevented them 
from becoming a general replacement 
for the more popular 2716 EPROM. 
Now things are changing. Intel has in- 
troduced a new type-28XX family of 
EEPROMs. All of them feature fast 
access times of 250 nanoseconds (ns), 
which means they run at 4 MHz with- 
out the so-called wait states, plus im- 
proved erase and write times on the 
order of 10 to 50 milliseconds (ms). 
And like the 2716, they hold 2K 
bytes. However, all except one 
member of the family still require a 
great deal of support circuitry, some 
of it tricky. That one shining star in 
the family is the 2817 (see figure 1). 

The 2817 stands out because the 
write-timing and pulse-shaping cir- 
cuitry required by the others have 
been placed on-chip. The only exter- 
nal timing component is a single 
capacitor. And V PP (programming 
voltage) is static, not pulsed by exter- 



460 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



How to dress upyour IBM. 



Low cost data acquisition 

and control for the 

IBM Personal Computer™ 

Data Translation is fashioning a new look in the personal 
computer market. 

Our new single board plug-ins bring complete 
analog and digital I/O capability to your IBM Personal 
Computer. 

The complete DT2801 I/O system fits on just 
one board. It includes A/D with programmable gain, 
D/A, digital I/O, and a programmable clock and has 
direct memory access capabilities. The DT2805 fea- 
tures the same functionality, with provision for low 
level analog input. 

With power and performance to match that of 
the IBM PC, either board provides 12-bits of resolu- 
tion with over 14kHz throughput rates under 
BASIC. 

And whether your application is in laboratory 
data acquisition or in industrial process control, 
you will find both boards highly reliable at a very 
low cost. 

The DT2801 and DT2805 are easy to use. 
Just plug either one into an IBM Personal Com- 
puter expansion slot. No need for separate hous- 
ing or cables. A screw terminal panel with optional 
thermocouple cold junction compensation is available for con- 
necting analog and digital input signals. 

And they're easy to program. More than 30 I/O functions 
are accessed with just 3 commands from BASIC. Programming 
instructions and sample routines are detailed in the compre- 
hensive User Manual. 

Plus, as with all Data Translation products, the DT2801 and 

DT2805 are fully 



Fred Molinari, President 



On-Board 16- Channel 

Microprocessor 12-Bit A/D with 

programmable gain 




The DT 2801 and DT 2805 are complete single 
board data acquisition systems for the IBM 
Personal Computer. 




backed by our service 
and support team. 

No other analog 
I/O system for the 
IBM Personal Com- 
puter offers such 
quality, power, and 
performance for such 
a reasonable price. 

But, by now you 
probably expect that 
from Data Translation 

We don't just fol- 
low the latest trends. 
We set the style. 







DATA TRANSLATION 



World Headquarters: Data Translation, Inc., 100 Locke Dr., Marlboro, MA 01752 (617) 481-3700 Tlx 951-646. 

European Headquarters: Data Translation, Ltd., 430 Bath Rd., Slough, Berkshire SLI 6BB England (06286) 3412 Tlx 849-862. 

IBM Personal Computer is a registered trademark of IBM. 



Circle 127 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 461 



vpp 

RDY/BUSY 
A7 
A6 
A5 
AA 
A3 
A2 
A! 
AO [ 
DO [ 
Dl[ 
D2[ 
GND [ 



2817 
E Z PROM 



]V CC 
] WE 
]TC 
]A8 
]A9 
] NX. 
J 61 
] AlO 

15e 

]D7 
] DS 

J 05 

]04 

303 



Figure 1: Pinout specifications of the 
type-2817 EEPROM integrated-circuit 
package. 

nal circuitry. This feature cuts the 
support circuit requirements 70 to 80 
percent. 

Simplifying things further is the 
automatic-erase feature. No longer is 
it necessary to erase either the entire 
chip or a single byte before writing. 
The 2817 also has on-chip data 
verification to ensure correct pro- 
gramming. As a result, the software 
to program the 2817 is extremely 
simple — a move memory block does 
it. If you wish, you can program or 
reprogram a single byte, thus making 
patching that small bug a snap. 
Recently I completed a new system 
monitor. When the inevitable bug ap- 
peared, I was able to use the 
monitor's edit facility (while running 
in the EEPROM) to patch the monitor 
itself. Try that with a 2716 EPROM! 

It's Not Perfect 

If I sound enthusiastic about the 
2817, it's because I am. However, 
there are a few things I don't especial- 
ly care for: it uses a 28-pin package, 
which means you cannot simply 
rewire the old EPROM socket to ac- 
cept the 2817. Write speed is quite 
slow compared to read; if write were 
as fast as read, the 2817 would more 
properly be called a RAM (random- 
access read/write memory), not a 
PROM. Also, there is a limitation on 
the number of times it can be 



reprogrammed: 10,000 times, mean- 
ing that your clock can't use it to 
store the time of day, but you certain- 
ly can maintain the current date. 
Entering the date once a day would 
take more than 27 years to exceed the 
reprogramming limitation. (The 2716 
can be reprogrammed only 30 to 40 
times.) 

The limitation that bothers me 
most is the requirement for a 
+ 21-volt (V) static V PP , a new 
voltage for most microcomputer 
systems. Fortunately, +21 V can be 
derived from the + 5-V supply using 
a DC-to-DC converter. Several op- 
tions for producing +21 V are 
discussed later. 

The Circuit 

The support requirements for a 
2817 EEPROM are similar to those of 
the byte-wide static-memory chips. 
The S-100 design presented here (see 
figure 2) is slightly more complicated 
because of the added power-on /reset- 
jump circuit. The unit I constructed 
was an addition to an existing wire- 
wrapping board (containing two 
serial I/O [input/output] ports), thus 
simplifying construction through the 
use of existing power, bus buffers, 
and some spare gates. You might 
choose a similar approach or build 
the circuit from scratch using a pro- 
totype wire-wrapping board. While 
intended for the S-100 bus, it could be 
easily modified to accommodate 
other bus systems. All bus signals 
used are standard, with the possible 
exception of PHANTOM*. Some 
older memory boards do not have a 
PHANTOM* capability. 

If the use of PHANTOM* is not 
possible in your system, or if the 
EEPROM is to be used for something 
other than a system monitor, the 
power-on/reset-jump portion of the 
circuit can be eliminated (IC6 and 
IC5A). The power-on /reset-jump can 
similarly be deactivated by removing 
IC6 from its socket. No switch has 
been provided. This deactivation is 
necessary until the EEPROM has been 
programmed with a monitor or boot 
loader. With IC6 installed, the 
power-on/reset-jump is enabled by a 
RESET* and disabled when the first 
I/O instruction is executed. There- 



fore, an I/O instruction, such as I/O 
port initialization, should appear ear- 
ly in the monitor program. 

The location of the 2817 in memory 
has been set at hexadecimal F000 
through F7FF. Other starting loca- 
tions, although possible, would re- 
quire some revision of the device- 
select circuit, IC7. The SINTA signal 
is required only if interrupts are used. 
If not, IC4B can be eliminated. 

The RDY/BUSY* signal (IC8, pin 
2) is an unusual one for a memory 
device. And it has nothing to do with 
reading data; it's used only during 
write operations. When commanded 
to write, the 2817 latches the address, 
data, and control signals. Then the 
RDY/BUSY* line goes low, pulling 
PRDY low, which causes the pro- 
cessor to enter a wait state until com- 
pletion of the write operation. The 
time that the RDY/BUSY* signal is 
held low (typically 10 ms) depends on 
the external TC (timing capacitor), 
5600 picofarad (pF) ± 10 percent, as 
specified by the manufacturer. 

Producing +21 V 

During write operations, the static 
V PP is first used to erase the byte ad- 
dressed and then to write the new 
data. The term static refers to the fact 
that Vp P is not pulsed as it is with 
EPROMs and other members of the 
EEPROM family. Although used only 
for write operations, chip logic re- 
quires that V PP be held steady at +21 
V during both read and write opera- 
tions. 

Vp P is specified at +21 V ± 1 V. If 
Vpp drops below +20 V, data reten- 
tion is not assured; if it rises above 
+ 22 V, the EEPROM may be dam- 
aged. Being a nonstandard voltage, 
+ 21 V presents a problem. However, 
some microcomputer systems do 
have a +24-V supply, which with 
further regulation can be used to sup- 
ply Vp P . If a +24-V supply is 
available, Intel suggests using a drop- 
ping resistor, a 22-V zener, and a 
1N914 diode to derive the +21 V (see 
figure 3). Because my system does not 
have a +24-V supply, prior to con- 
structing a more permanent +21-V 
source I used the zener-diode circuit 
(with a 330(2 resistor) and three 9-V 
transistor batteries connected in series 



462 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 





SYSTEMS 



LEADER m MA IL Of: t »l R DISCC >U N i S I 
Texas 817/274-5625 



IBM Personal Computer 



INTERNAL DISKS FOR IBM 

Tandon Internal Disk-160K SCALL 

Tandon Internal Disk-320K SCALL 

HARD DISKS FOR IBM 

Complete 5 Meg. Systems from . . . $1550 

Multi-computer Network Systems 

QUAOBOARD FOR IBM 

Includes 64K to 256K additional memory 
Serial & Parallel Port and Calendar Clock 

PRINTERS FOR IBM 

STAR and EPSON SCALL 

NEC 3550 Spinwriter SCALL 



MONITORS 

Med Hi Res-Green Cornrex $89 

High Res-Green BMC from $89 

High Res-Color PGS $CALL 

Matches IBM PC 
Low Res-Color-Taxon Vision 1 . . . $CALL 
High Res-Color-Taxon Vision 1 . SCALL 
High Res-Green-Taxon $CALL 



CORVUS 



First DISK DRIVE includes controller, DOS I 

3.3, cables and manual SCALL I 

Second DISK DRIVE with cable . SCALL | 

APPLE to EPSON card and cable 
APPLE TO GEMINI card and cable 

Z 80 CARD $CALL I 

RAM CARD $CALL I 

Printer Interface Cards SCALL I 

Graphic Printer Interface Card , . , $CALL | 

Graphic Spooler Interface Card 

available with 16K to 64K 



D 



DAVONG 

Systems, Inc. 



FOR IBM, APPLE II AND APPLE III 
SPECIFY INTERNAL/EXTERNAL 

5 megabyte hard drive" $CALL| 

12 megabyte hard drive SCALLi 



HARD DISKS from $18891 



5 Megabyte Hard Drive SCALL 

10 Megabyte Hard Drive SCALL 

20 Megabyte Hard Drive SCALL 

Add 5. 10 or 20 Megabytes of storage to your TRS-80 Model 1. Model II. Model III. 
Model 12, IBM, Apple. Atari. Heath, Zenith, Intertec, S100, Osborne. Eagle 
Commodore 64, Xerox. Superbrain, Z89/90, DEC LSI — 11, NEC PC-8001, and more 

One or several computers can share A HARD DISK 
Ask about OMNINET for your Apple or IBM PC. 



1 



Dedicated 

To Being No. 1! 



FEATURES 



100 CPS 

9X9 Dot Matrix 

True Decenders 

Super Scripsit-Subscript-Underlining 

Friction and Tractor 

Programable Line Spacing 



99% Compatible with software written 

for No. 1 Printer. 
High Res. Bit Image Block Graphics 
Backspacing-Doublestrike-And More 
5, 6, 8 1/2, 10. 12 and 17 Pitch 
Free 2.3K Buffer 



Extended Six (b) Months Factory Warranty-FR E E! 



Gemini 10 (9 inch Carnage) Friction and Tractor SCALL 

Gemini 15 (15 inch Carriage) Friction and Tractor SCALL 

Serial Interface SCALL 

Apple Card and Cable SCALL 

Commodore Interface SCALL 



COMMODORE 64 

VIC 20--DISK DRIVES-MONITORS 

DATASETTES--SOFTWARE 

ACCESSORIES 

Call For Current Pricing Information. 

PRINTERS 

TCS has the LOWEST PRICES on IN-STOCK PRINTERS 

MATRIX PRINTERS 

EPSON-MX & FX MODELS 

C.ITOH 8510/TEC/PMC 

DMP 100 

DMP 200 

DMP 400 

DMP 500 

DMP 2100 

ANADEX 9501-A 

CENTRONICS 352/353 

OKIDATA PRINTERS 

PRINTER CABLES AND INTERFACES AVAILABLE. 

CALL FOR CURRENT PRICING INFORMATION. 



LETTER QUALITY PRINTERS 

C ITOH F-10 (40 CPSI 
DAISY WHEEL II (RS) 

NEC 3510-3550 

NEC 7710 7730 
BROTHER COMREX 



TCS MODEL III 48K 2 DISK 

Systems come with 180 day warranty. 



$1444 

With standard 40 track 

double density drives 

Over 340,000 bytes 

includes TDOS 



$1644 



With 2 dual headed 40 
track dbl density drives 

Over 730,000 bytes 

Includes DOSPLUS 3.4 

(S150 value! 



Fully assembled and tested systems that are software compatible and functionally 
identical to Radio Shack units sold at computer stores for Shundreds more. 

oCONTROLLER BOARDS are high quality double sided epoxy boards with gold 
plated contacts 

□ POWER SUPPLY is the finest switching type available. 

□ MOUNTING HARDWARE includes power and data cables 

□ DISK DRIVES are Tandon, the same ones used by Radio Shack 40 track, double 

density, with a 5 millisecond stepping rate. 



TCS MODEL III DISK EXPANSION KITS 

1 Controller. Power Supply. Mounting Hardware & Instruction $279 

2 Controller, Power Supply, Mounting Hardware & one 40 track Tandon Drive $478 

3 Controller, Power Supply, Mounting Hardware & two 40 track Tandon Drive $677 

3A Kit 3 but with two 80 track drives (dual 40's) $879 

3B Kit 3 but with two 160 track drives (dual 80's) $1099 

TCS Model III and Color Computer 

Ask about the Green or Amber CRT for your customized Model III 



TRS-80 



Model III and Color Computer 

With Original 90 day Manufacturer's Limited Warranty 
Call for current pricing information on the 

Model II. ..Model 16. ..Model 12.. .Model 4 

All Radio Shack Equipment shipped from our store in 
Brady, Texas. 



HTST 



TCS DRIVE CABINET is industrial grade heavy guage metal, safely fused, and comes 
/ith gold plated external connector with extender cable 



1 DRIVE in Cabinet 

140 track single sided S249 

ISO track (dual sided 40 track) S329 

1160 track (dual sided 80 track S449 

1 DRIVE/Double Cabinet 

1 40 track single sided S289 

|80 track (dual sided 40 track) S389 

1 160 track (dual sided 80 track) S499 

2 DRIVES/Double Cabinet 

I 40 track single sided S489 

I 80 track (dual sided 40 track) $639 

l 160 track (dual sided 80 track) S849 

I Drives in cabinets come assembled/tested with power supply Order cable separately 

BARE DRIVES ONLY 

1 40 track single sided SCALL 

180 track (dual sided 40 track) SCALL 

1 160 track (dual sided 80 track) SCALL 

|8 inch Slimline sgl/dbl sided SCALL 

[Winchester Hard Drives 5-30 Meg SCALL 

Smith-Corona 8 XP-I 

Parallel/Serial S535 

TEXAS COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

P.O. Box 1327 Arlington, Texas 76004-1327 

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 817/274-9221 

ORDER STATUS 817/277-1913 

TELEX/TWX/Ea«ylink ELN 62100790 



800 433-5184 



No tax out of stat*. T«x»n» add 5%. Price* »ub)«ct to Chang* at any time. 



Circle 408 on inquiry card. 










00 -"t C-. o o 

a 

m (DOOflt^lDlOf OGJ 

, t- CM CM T- -i- t- t- CM i- CM CM 



■"^ -*r oo : ■"*■ -sp: 

•<* -*t CM Q> ^- CO *3- -a- *r 

CM CM CO O r>- t- O CM CM 

<D I^C/3OTCOCOWC/5f~-CO(/30D 

Q. CB — J — I — J — I — I —1 r- —1 —1 _l 

>. .*— ■* ..^-. <* •* f» 00 "* ■* <* 
l_ oo i~- r~~ i»~ i-- -p- r-- cm r- r— r^ 




i co i- AT) <o f^ 
iQOOO o 



o T- 
oo o> T- T- 

oooo 



u t: 



464 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 













I Y: Si ii| 1 1 :i Bmh HM 

"The ONLY Book Club for micro users" 



Play games . . . develop new programming skills 
. . . organize your finances . . . earn extra income 
. . . even build your own microcomputer! 

HAVE IT ALL FOR ONLY $2.95 

Select any 5 books (values to $103.75) 
for only $2.95 when you join! 



Ready-To-Run Software 





(Counts as 2 books) 
Gridiron Offense/Defense fB 
No. 7113 Tape for TRS-80 
Models I or III List $24.95 
No. 7114 Disk for TRS-80 
Models I or III List $29.95 



(Counts as 2 books) 

Checkbook Analyzer© 

No. 7201— Disk for Apple II 

with 48K List $34.95 

No. 7301— Disk for IBM PC 

List $34.95 



LE*8ftl»G 
OH « MCMCCWWH 

purine buciimck 

ISO OIKI MUTE 




'--'. .>-*',•■:.•■ 

HOW TO 

DESIGN. BUILD & 

PROGRAM TOUR OWN 

MLWNCEB WORKING 

COMPUTER SYSTEM 

• «■"•—— 

--- .^.v 

r 

1332 
List $16.95 

34 iBR£ tested, 

Reaity-To-Run 

Game Programs 

in BASIC 





" B 



THE 
flTOZ . 

book of r 

COMPUTER MFCS 



1053 
List $13.95 



I'lttlCllll 

SHICk & KOMI 

MMtlSttllHilllK 

PKSflWI MMWltK 



1391 
List $17.95 

SS«DVf»Cp3 

mrr«jTEB 

pfiOGPflrrB 

in ease 




The Handbook of 

Microcomputer 

Interfacing 




MASTER 

m 

COOKBOOK 



1199 
List $18.95 



lf«i 

■'■ ' •''$ { 8AKSI 
IN HSIC | 


■1001 




Hi imttss to 

.- _ oe win tw 
iMB rami antmu 

it H 


■■-' ' ■■;- ' 


j*i 

* 


. 3jj*^ 



APPLE 
COMPUTER 



• OMTR01 

"ftflWI 

MICROCOMPUTERS 



lOOO 

List $13.95 





7 very good reasons to try 
The j Computer Book Club® 

Blue Ridge Summit, PA 17214 

• Reduced Member Prices. Save 20% to 75% on books sure to 
increase your know-how 

• Satisfaction Guaranteed. All books returnable within 10 
days without obligation 

• Club News Bulletins. All about current selections— mains, 
alternates, extras— plus bonus offers. Comes 13 times a year 
with dozens of up-to-the-minute titles you can pick from 

• "Automatic Order." Do nothing, and the Main selection 
will be shipped automatically! But ... if you want an Alter- 
nate Selection— or no books at all— we'll follow the instruc- 
tions you give on the reply form provided with every News 
Bulletin 

• Continuing Benefits. Get a Dividend Certificate with every 
book purchased after fulfilling membership obligation, and 
qualify for discounts on many other volumes 

• Extra Bonuses. Take advantage of added-value promo- 
tions, plus special discounts; on software, games, and more 

• Exceptional Quality. All books are first-rate publisher's 
editions, filled with useful, up-to-the-minute information 



I 
I 
I 

I 
I 
I 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 




Blue Ridge Summit, PA 17214 

Please accept my membership in The Computer Book Club® 

and send the 5 volumes circled below, billing me $2.95 plus 

shipping and handling charges. If not satisfied, 1 may return 

the books within ten days without obligation and have my 

membership cancelled. I agree to purchase 4 or more books 

at reduced Club prices (plus shipping/handling) during the 

next 12 months, and may resign any time thereafter. 

1000 1050 1053 1055 1062 1160 1199 

1228 1251 1295 1332 1369 1391 1394 

1398 1414 1466 1468 1473 1485 1496 

1501 1533 1535 7113 7114 7201 7301 



Name 



Phone 



Address 

City 

State Zip 

Valid for new members only. (Orders outside U.S. or Canada must be prepaid in 
International Money Orders in U.S. dollars. Canada must remit in U.S. dollars.) 
This order subject to acceptance by The Computer Book Club®. BY-783 



Circle 395 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 465 



82 n 1N9M v PP 

-W— 0*21V 

SUPPLY 

^-'lN«7«8 
^ ( 22V ZENERI 



Figure 3: The manufacturer's suggested 
circuit to adapt + 24-V power supplies to 
provide the +21 V needed for V PP (pro- 
gramming voltage). 



330ft 
->Wv 



1N9U 

-w- 






-o- 



+ 21V 
SUPPLY 



-Ogno 



(see figure 4). The current drawn by 
the 2817 is typically 8 milliamperes 
(mA) for read and 15 mA for write. 
The value of the dropping resistor can 
be computed using the following for- 
mula: 



Figure 4: A battery power supply for V PP (+21 V) can be used for testing or until a per- 
manent supply is constructed. 



R 



22 



0.0165 



where E s is the supply voltage. For ex- 
ample, if E* = 27 V, then R = 
(27-22)/0.0165 = 303fl. 

A careful check of the regulator 
output voltage would be a wise move 
because the 2817 can be damaged by 
overvoltage. Also, check to see that 
the 22-V zener is not overheating — if 
the value of the dropping resistor is 
too low, this condition can occur. 

One other word of caution (here I 
quote the manufacturer's literature): 
"V PP can only be applied after V cc 
( + 5 volts) is valid and WE* and CE* 
have been set to V,„ (high). While 
powering down, V C c should remain 
valid and WE* and CE* remain at V m 
(high) until V PP is less than V cc - 
Failure to follow this sequence may 
result in data loss or device damage." 
This should not present a problem if 
the +21-V supply is derived from the 
+ 5-V supply. If you try the battery 
trick, however, do not forget to 
switch it off, or better yet, disconnect 
the battery prior to powering down 
tne system. I forgot once and got 
away with it, but it could have been a 
costly mistake. 

Converting +5 V into +21 V is 
not too difficult. My old Cromemco 
8K-byte Bytesaver does it with three 
transistors and a few other com- 
ponents. Intel suggests a more 
modern approach using a switching 
regulator (TL497 in figure 5) that pro- 
duces + 21 V at 75 mA, more than 



0.5fl 




+ 21V 
-f— I >SUPPLY 
® 75mA 



22 M F 



Figure 5: A DC-to-DC switching-regulator power supply provides the +22- V program- 
ming voltage suggested by the EEPROM's manufacturer. 



enough for this project. For more in- 
formation on DC-to-DC converters, 
see references 2 and 4. 

Construction of the EEPROM cir- 
cuit is not difficult; using wire- 
wrapping techniques, it should take 
only a few evenings of effort for those 
with previous experience. Parts 
layout is not critical. The use of 
bypass capacitors (not shown on the 
schematic) near power connections is 
recommended. If the leads to the tim- 
ing capacitor are small enough, one 
lead can be wrapped directly onto the 
socket pin and the other to any con- 
venient ground pin. 

Programming the 2817 

Programming the 2817 is simple. I 
used my disk operating system to 
transfer the data (the previously 
assembled monitor) from disk to an 



unused area of memory. Then I used 
the operating system command 
MOVE to put the data into the 2817. 
It is not possible to make a direct 
disk-to-EEPROM transfer with most 
disk systems because of the device's 
relatively slow write speed. A simple 
BASIC program using PEEK and 
POKE commands also can do the job. 
Listing 1 is an example of such a pro- 
gram. Before beginning the write op- 
eration, turn SW1 on; after writing, 
turn SWl off. When in the off posi- 
tion, SWl prevents inadvertent 
writing into the EEPROM. For exam- 
ple, my system monitor searches for 
top of memory by rewriting every 
possible memory location; leaving 
SWl on could cause rewriting of the 
EEPROM every time I power up. 
Most BASICs do the same thing. If 
allowed to happen, this rewriting 



466 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



NEW FOR APPLE II AND lie 







Software is not copy protected. 
System requirements: Apple II 
Plus with 64K and DOS 3.3 or 
Apple He. Franklin Ace also 
supported. 

•Wildcard does not operate with 
CP/M " or other microprocessor 
based software. 



Circle 150 on inquiry card. 



MAKES BACK-UP COPIES OF PROTECTED SOFTWARE 
QUICKLY, EASILY, WITH JUST A PUSH OF A BUTTON. 

New software locking schemes have rendered even the latest generation of 
copy programs virtually unusable. Locksmith™, Nibbles Away™ and other 
"Nibble copiers" require complicated parameter settings, much patience and 
great effort to use. More often than not, the results are disappointing. WILD- 
CARD is different. Rather than copying disks track by track, WILDCARD 
ignores the disk and any copy protection encrypted on it. Instead, WILDCARD 

takes a snapshot of memory in your Apple® II. 
Now you can make back-up copies 
of protected software with 
the push of a button. 

FEATURES 

d Hardware copying device. . . ; " a ^-»*« ^- — ... 

push button operation. 

□ Copies 48K memory resident 
software, most 64K software. 

□ No programming experience or 
parameters necessary. 

□ Backs up DOS 3.2 and DOS 3.3 
disks. 

□ Creates DOS 3.3 unprotected 
and autobooting disks. 

d WILDCARD lives in any slot. 
Undetectable by software. 

□ Produces autobooting disk in 
2 minutes. 

□ Copies are DOS 3.3 compatible. 

□ Copies become accessible for 
alterations. 

□ Simple, easy-to-use software 
included. 

WILDCARD Utility Disk 1 also in- 
cluded, featuring: 

□ Automatic program compres- 
sion and BRUN file maker. 

□ Multiple programs can be 
placed on the same disk. 

□ Recreates basic files to load and 
save. 

□ Files can be placed on a hard 
disk. ..and more. 





WILDCARD 



$139.95 



Order direct from East Side Soft- 
ware Co., 344 E. 63 St., Suite 14-A, 
New York City 10021, 212-355-2860. 
Please include $3.00 for shipping 
and handling. Orders outside 
continental U.S. please add $10.00 
for shipping and handling. Mail 
and phone orders may be charged 
to MasterCard and VISA. 
N.Y. State residents add sales tax. 
Dealer inquiries welcome. 



IMPORTANT NOTICE: The WILDCARD is offered 
for the purpose of enabling you to make archival 
copies only. Under the Copyright Law you, as the 



owner of a copy of a computer program, are 
entitled to make a new copy for archival pur- 
poses only and the WILDCARD will enable you 
to do so. The WILDCARD is offered for no other 
purpose and you are not permitted to utilize it 
for any other use, other than that specified. 

Apple and the Apple logo are registered 
trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. — CP/M — 
trademark of Digital Research, Inc. Locksmith- 
trademark of Omega Microwave, Inc. Nibbles 
Away — trademark of Computer: applications. 




Circle 323 on inquiry card. 



###*##*#*##*#*####* 




APPLE HARDWARE 






40% to 70% 


off!! 






Stock 


Retail 


Now 


% 


Number 


Price 


Only 


OH 


AP101 leK RAM card 


$149 


$49 


07% 


AP102 80 Column card 


295 


159 


46% 


AI'106 Dibk-II controller 


150 


80 


41% 


API07 Joy-sttck delux 


49 


25 


49% 


AP108 Language card only 


295 


159 


46% 


AP109 Lower case 


45 


25 


49% 


APUO Printer card 


150 


59 


61% 


APlll RS-232 card 


195 


89 


54% 


API 12 Sup-R-Mod 


39 


25 


36% 


AIM 14 Z-80 card 


298 


139 


53% 


AP115 Disk-II drive wo Ctrl 






.^1S. 


(ilim line! 


588 


269 


54% 


AP116 Integer card 


150 


59 


61% 


API 17 EPROM writer card 


279 


139 


50% 


AP118 128K RAM card 


498 


279 


44% 


AP20I Apple-ll+ tompat. 48K kit 


599 


320 


47% 


AP202 Hardcase tor 








AP201 (PLASTIC) 


175 


119 


32% 


AP203 Keyboard far AP201 


139 


78 


44% 


AP204 Power supply for AP201 


120 


75 


38% 


AP401 IBM PC Computer with 








2 Drives 


3550 


2495 


30% 


*********************** 


* * * * 


* * * 


We accept COD personal checks 








All prices good thru the end of this rt 


ir,lh 






iK&R COMPUTER CO., LTD.; 




: 1440 PACIFIC COAST HWY.. #104 : 




HARBOR CITY, CA 90710 






(213)5302577 







Circle 226 on inquiry card. 



ADOS VIEPOINT $550.00 



INTRODUCING THE 

PRQ-raa 

COMPUTER 




SINGLE BOARD COMPUTER • Z80A • 64KRAM • 2 SERIAL 

PORTS • 1 CENTRONICS PORT • SYSTEM TEST PROM 
TWO 8" DISK DRIVES • CP/M" COMPATIBLE • SUPER FAST 

DISK ACCESS • 32K SOFTWARE SPOOLER • DIGITAL 

PHASE LOCK LOOP • WORKS IN EITHER IBM STANDARD SD 

OR DD • OEM AND PRIVATE LABLES AGREEMENTS 

ARE AVAILABLE • DEALER DISCOUNTS. 

MANUAL & SCHEMATICS S 35 CYBERTEK CORP. 

BOARD KIT 5300 PO Box 1913 

CHASSIS KIT $300 Hialeah, FL 33011-1913 

CPM + BIOS $150 Te | (305)386-4750 



Circle 67 on inquiry card. 



Listing 1: A simple BASIC routine programs the figure 1 EEPROM by moving data from 
RAM to the EEPROM. 



100 

110 

128 
130 
140 
158 
160 
170 
180 
1 90 
280 
210 
220 
238 
240 
250 
268 

238 
290 



REM 
REM 
REM 
REM 
REM 
REM 
REM 
LET 
LET 
LET 
REM 
FOR 



»* EEPROM PROGRAMMER 



D ■ 

N = 
P = 

D=32888 
N=2048 

P=6 1 448 



Star-tins! address of data 
to be pr osSr-ainmed. 
Number- of" bytes to moue. 
EEPROM start- insi address. 



REM For example only. 
REM A full 2K. 
REM F888 Hex. 



R=D TO D+N 
B=PEEK<fl> 
POKE P,B 
P-^P+1 

NEXT fi 

REM 

PRINT "DONE" 

STOP 

END 



would unnecessarily shorten the life 
expectancy of the device. 

Conclusion 

Although my objective in this proj- 
ect was to provide nonvolatile 
storage for my system monitor, the 
2817 is also ideal for storing price 
lists, accumulated totals, frequently 
used functions, keyboard character 
codes, printer/video display char- 
acter fonts and graphics symbols, 
data-logging results, or any other in- 
frequently changed data you want to 
maintain in high-speed nonvolatile 
memory. 

The price of the 2817 might be con- 
sidered somewhat high at $62.75. 
When you subtract the cost of an 
EPROM eraser, however, the price 
becomes a bit more palatable. The 
estimated cost of this project is 
around $110. To construct a similar 
circuit using a 2716, plus the cost of 
an EPROM eraser, would come to 
roughly $125. (A comparison of com- 
mercially available products is not 
possible because no 2817 boards are 
yet available.) Use of the 2817 then 
results in a net savings of about 10 
percent over the 2716. However, 
more important than the monetary 



consideration are the savings in time 
and frustration. The 2817 has made 
EEPROM circuit design, construc- 
tion, and usage simple, easy, and 
practical.! 

References 

1. Ciarcia, Steve. "Add Nonvolatile Memory 
to Your Computer." BYTE, December 
1979, p. 36. 

2. Ciarcia, Steve. "Switching Power Sup- 
plies: An Introduction." BYTE, November 
1981, p. 36. 

3. PPROM Family Applications Handbook. 
Santa Clara, CA: Intel Corporation, 
November 1981. 

4. Morales, Arnold J. and David Ruhberg. 
"Let the MC68701 Program Itself." BYTE, 
August 1982, p. 380. 

5. Osborne, Adam and Jerry Kane. An In- 
troduction to Microcomputers, vol. 3. 
Berkeley, CA: Osborne/McGraw-Hill, 
1975. 

6. 2817— 16K (2Kx8) Electrically Erasable 
PROM (data sheet). Santa Clara, CA: Intel 
Corporation, December 1981. 



About the Author 

Louis Wheeler is a retired federal govern- 
ment employee. He spent 14 years as a pro- 
grammer, teacher, and manager of minicom- 
puter systems. His special interest is data pro- 
cessing, in which he has an associate degree. He 
can he contacted at 1323 Tamera Dr. , Oceano, 
CA 93445. 



Our Prices Will Get Your Attention.' 
Our Service Will Keep It. 



I 



ORDER NO. DESCRIPTION 



LIST AEI PRICE ORDER NO DESCRIPTION 



LIST AEI PRICE ORDER NO. DESCRIPTION 



LIST AEI PRICE 



SILVER - REED 550 



1 



NEC PRINTERS 



Letter Quality Printer 



1 



TELEVIDEO SYSTEMS 



TS-802 Integrated Single User 

Computer 

TS-802H Integrated Hard Disk 

Computer 

TS-803 Computer 

TS- 1 602G 1 6 Bit 802 Type Computer 
TS-1602GH 16 Bit 802H Type 

Computer 

TS-806-20 Mutli-User Computer 

TS-B16 Multi-User Computer 

TV-910-P Televideo 910 Plus 

TV-910 Televideo 910 

TV-925 Televideo 925 

TV-950 Televideo 960 

TV-970 Televideo 970 

TV-9051 One Additional Pdge for 

925/950 

TV-MM Three Additional Pages 
TS-24-001 for 950 

For Any Televideo Terminal 
TS-803 Televideo Graphics 

Computer 

TS-806H/20 TeleSolutions WordStdr 
TS-TW ■ CalcStar 

20 MB Expansion for TS-806 

Telewriter - NEC 3500 .... 



3295 2632 



4495 

6995 
7195 

8995 
699 
699 
995 
1195 
1495 

95 

120 
60 



NE-3510-1 NEC3510SpinwriterR/O 

Serial 35 CPS 1895 

NE-3515-1 NEC3515SpinwriterR/0 

Serial Diablo Compatible 1925 

NE-3530-1 NEC 3530 Spinwriter 1995 

NE-3550-1 NEC 3550 Spinwriter R/O 

Parallel IBM Compatible 
NE-35-TRAC Bi-directional Tractor . . . 
NE-7710-1 NEC7710SpinwriterR/O 

Serial 55 CPS 

NE-7715-1 NEC7715SpinwriterR/0 

Serial Diablo Comp 2825 

NE-7720-1 NEC 7720 Spinwriter KSR 

Serial 55 CPS 3610 

NE-7725-1 NEC 7725 Spinwriter KSR 

Serial Diablo Comp 3710 

NE-7730-1 NEC 7730 Spinwriter 2795 

NE-PC-8023 Parallel 695 

PLUS OTHER ACCESSORIES 



2350 
265 



2795 



Call 
Call 

Call 

Call 
Call 

Call 
573 
573 

921ISTARMICRONICS 

can r 



Call 

Call 

Call 
Call 

Call 

Call 

Call 

Call 
Call 
Call 



L 



95 

53 



2495 Call DP-8240 



790 
3600 
2195 



Call 
2948 
1629, 



DP-8480-TP 80 Column Dot Matrix 

Printer - Parallel 

10" Carriage - Parallel . 
15" Carriage - Parallel . 
Serial Interface Card . . 
40 Column Dot Matrix - 
Parallel or Serial 



Gemini-10 
Gemini- 15 



449 

399 

649 

85 



Call 
Call 
Call 
Call 



I 



NORTHSTAR 



IOKIDATA 



NS-94404 Adv-2Q-64K Computer . . 3599 Call 
NS-97404 Adv-1Q-o4K-HD-5 

Computer 4999 Call 

NS-94401 Hrz-2Q-64K Horizon 3599 Call 

NS-97401 Hrz-1Q-64K-HD-5MB 4999 Call 

PLUS OTHER NORTHSTAR PRODUCTS 



OK-83A 
OK-84A-P 

OK-84A-S 

OK-G-82 

OK-G-83 

OK-92 

OK-93 

OK-2K 



Okidata Microline 82A 

with Tractor Feed 

Okidata Microline 83A . . 
Okidata Microline 84A 

- Parallel 

Okidata Microline 84A 

- Serial 

Okigraph I for 82A 

Okigraph I for 83A 

Okidata Microline 92 ... . 

Okiddtd Microline 93 

2K Buffer/Serial BD 

ail Models 



719 
1195 



486 
713 



ZVM-121 Green Screen Monitor. . 

Z-29 Z-29 Terminal 

ZTX-1 Zenith Auto-Dial 

Personal Terminal 

Z-25-AA Z 25 Dot Matrix Printer . . 

Z-134 Zenith Color Monitor . . . 

Z-37 Z-37 Dual 5" Disk Drives 

Z-87-89 Z87 Dual 5" Disk Drives . 

Z-87-90 Same Disk add 400K 

to Z-90 

ZS-67 Z-67 Winchester - 

Floppy Drive 

Z^17-DA Z47 Dual 8" Disk Drives . 
Call for Z-100 Series Prices 



160 
849 



Call 



1 



MANNESMANN TALLY 



499 Call 

1499 1198 MT1600's 

699 Call MT1800's 

1995 1593 MT160L 

999 898 



Serial & Parallel . 
Serial & Parallel . 
S or P- 160 CPS. 



1695 1441 

1995 Call 

795 Call 



999 



5995 
3695 



898 



4747 
Call 



PLUS: MORROW • ALTOS • EAGLE • 

NEC PERSONAL • ANADEX. C-ITOH 

• DIABLO • COMREX • TOSHIBA 

ALSO AVAILABLE: MODEMS' DISKETTE STORAGE BOXES • 
DISKETTES • CLIPSTRIP • RIBBONS 



GUARANTEE 

• PROVEN PRODUCTS 

• SYSTEM DESIGN HELP 

• BENCH TESTING AND CONFIGURING 

• TECHNICAL SUPPORT STAFF 

• SERVICE AFTER SALE: 

(800) 854-7635 TECHNICAL SERVICE SUPPORT 
We will pay the freight — both ways — for repair 
on verified returns within 30 days of sale. 

TERMS AND CONDITIONS 

Prices change daily Call for current pricing and availability. Prices based 
on prepaid cash orders We accept: cashiers checks, money orders, 
bank wires, or personal checks (10 days to order). C.O.D. — standard 
charges plus 2% handling for orders outside California Mastercharge & 
Visa — 5% handling California residents add state and local sales tax 



en r 

I sss 



SOFTWARE 



AVAILABLE FOR THE FOLLOWING SYSTEMS: 



Altos CP/M 5V 

Apple CP/M 5 V 

Apple DOS - Cassette 

Apple DOS - Diskette 

Atari 400/800 Diskette 

Atari Cartridge 

Atari Cassette 

Basic 4 CP/M 5V 

CP/M-86 Display Writer 

Cromemco CP/M 5 V 

DECVT-180CP/M5V 

Eogle CP/M 5V 

Heath Z-90 CP/M 5V 

Heath Zenith CP/M 5V 

Hewlett Packard 125 CP/M 5V 
Hewlett Packard 87 CP/M 5V . 

IBM PC. CP/M 86 

IBM PC. DOS 

NEC CP/M 5V 

Northstdr Advdntage CP/M 5 V 
Northstar Horizon CP/M 5'." . . . . 
Ohio Scientific C-3 CP/M 5V . . 

Osborne CP/M 5V 

OtronaCP/M 514* 

QD-Micropolis Mod ll/Vector Graphic 

Sdnyo 1000 CP/M 5V 

Sirius Victor 5 V 

Software for 8086 Computers 

Standard CP/M 8" 

Superbrain 5V 

Timex/Sincldir ZX81 

TRS-80 Cdssette Models I & III 

TRS-80 Diskette Models I & III 

TRS-80 Model II CP/M 

Televideo CP/M 5V 

Vic 20 

Wang CP/M 5V, 8" 

Xerox 820 CP/M 5V 



CALL 

FOR 

CURRENT 

PRICING 





NEW ITEMS 

Palantir Word Processor w/Mailout . . 
For use with Apple II (64K) CPM. . . 

FOURTH OF JULY 

Fireworks Special 

Order S300-S999 

Receive FREE 

5Vt" Diskette Library Case 

Order $1 ,000 + 

Receive FREE 

-Box of 514" Disksj^s 








These prices prepared 5/83 
Prices change daily — 
call for current pricing 
and shipping charges. 

CALL TOLL FREE: 

800-854-7635 



IN CALIFORNIA CALL: 

^ (619)562-7571 

AUTOMATED EQUIPMENT, INC. 

8775 Olive Lane, Suites I 8c J • Santee, CA 92071 



BYTE July 1983 469 



Software Review 



Alcor Pascal and Advanced 
Development Package 






by Rowland Archer Jr. 



TRS-80 owners now have a choice between two fine 
implementations of Pascal: Pascal-80, which I reviewed 
for BYTE in the December 1981 issue ("Pascal-80," page 
304), and Alcor Pascal, the subject of this review. In ad- 
dition to running on the TRS-80 Models I and III, Alcor 
Pascal runs under CP/M. (I did not test the CP/M ver- 
sion, but most of the comments in this review should also 
apply to it.) 

System Overview 

Alcor Pascal for the Model I comes on three single- 
density, 35-track disks with no operating system. The 
Model III version fits on two double-density disks. Two 
disk drives and 48K bytes of RAM (random-access read/ 
write memory) are recommended. Limited use could be 
made of Alcor Pascal with one drive, but I think you 
would find this too restrictive. 

Alcor Pascal owners may also purchase the Advanced 
Development Package (ADP). Supplied on a single disk, 
the programs in this package can make a compiled Pascal 
program smaller and sometimes faster. 

Table 1 lists and describes the files you get with both 
Alcor Pascal and the ADP. Disk 1 also includes PATCH/ 
CMD, a utility program supplied by Alcor. You need to 
install some patches before using Alcor Pascal with Ap- 
parat's NEWDOS/80 disk operating system on the Model 
I. Model III users get a set of patches for Logical Systems' 
LDOS disk operating system. 

I used Alcor Pascal successfully with NEWDOS/80, 



LDOS, and TRSDOS on the Model I. 

The Alcor system has four main components: a full- 
screen text editor, a Pascal compiler, a stand-alone run- 
time system, and a linking loader. The linking loader lets 
you construct a program in small modules that can be 
compiled separately. When you modify a program, only 
the changed modules have to be recompiled. The linking 
loader combines all the modules into one command file 
(with a /CMD filename extension) that can be run direct- 
ly from the TRSDOS READY prompt. 

Alcor does not demand a royalty for the sale of com- 
piled programs, a welcome departure from the policy 
taken by many compiler vendors. Programs compiled by 
Alcor Pascal are portable from one type of computer to 
another: the same program will run on the Model I, III, 
and CP/M systems. You must use the run-time system 
for the target machine, but you do not have to make any 
changes to your source code. If your programs use 
specific hardware features of one system, they may need 
to be modified to run on another. One likely problem is 
the conversion of the TRS-80's 64-column by 16-line 
screen format to the 80-column by 24-line screen format 
of many terminals used with CP/M. 

Language Features and Restrictions 

Alcor's implementation of Pascal is complete. The only 
omissions from "standard Pascal" (as defined by K. 
Jensen and N. Wirth's Pascal User Manual and Report, 
New York: Springer-Verlag, 1975) are the GET and PUT 



470 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Since 1978 

• REPUTATION BACKED BY YEARS OF 
EXPERIENCE. 

• PIONEER IN DIRECT TO CONSUMER SALES 
OF MICRO COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS 

• MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN SALES OVER THE 
YEARS 

• TENS OF THOUSANDS OF CUSTOMERS 

• HONEST 

• RELIABLE 

• LARGE INVENTORY 

• NAME BRAND PRODUCTS 




DISCOUNT 
PRICES 



Micro Management 
Systems, Inc. 

2803 Thomasville Road East 

Cairo, Georgia 31728 

(912) 377-7120 



BUY 
DIRECT 



It's simple. . . . 
CALL & SAVE MONEY 

■TELEMARKETING WORKS" 



1-800-841-0860 

CONVENIENT ORDER ENTRY 



Ga & Info 912-377-7120 



COMPUTERS & EQUIPMENT 



EPSON 
PRINTERS 

MX-80 $369 

FX-80 $CALL 

MX-100 $CALL 

NEW PRODUCTS. SCALL 



TRS-80 COMPUTERS 



BUY 

DIRECT 

SAVE 



DISCOUNT 
PRICED 
FROM 

$2639 



MODEL 12 

MODEL 16 $4012 

MODEL III $588 

COLOR COMPUTER. .. CALL 

WE CARRY THE COMPLETE LINE OF TRS-80 COMPUTERS 



OK-DATA 
PRINTERS 

MICROLINE 80 MICROLINE 92P 

MICROLINE 82A MICROLINE 93P 

MICROLINE 83A PACEMARK 2350 

MICROLINE 84P PACEMARK 2410 

*339 



DISCOUNT 
PRICED 
FROM 




TP-1 DAISY 
WHEEL 
PRINTER 



• LOW COST • 12 CPS 

• MICROPROCESSOR ELECTRONICS 

• 10 OR 12 PITCH FROM 
> SIMPLE RELIABLE $ 

MECHANISM 



>499 



C. Itoh 

PRINTERS 

FROM W## 

Prowriter. SCALL 
Starwriter. SCALL 
Printmaster $CALL 



-IL 



mi(ronici-in c 

PRINTERS 

GEMINI - 10 
GEMINI - 15 

DISCOUNT - M _ — ~ „ 

priced $330 

from ^»v^»* m 



A ATARI 

ATARI 800 
ATARI 1200 

SCALL 



brother. 

DAISY 

WHEEL 

PRINTERS 

$CALL 



& 



commodore 
COMPUTERS 



from * I 39 

COMMODORE 64 SCALL 

VIC 20 SCALL 

VIC 1541 DRIVE SCALL 

VIC 1530 DATASETTE SCALL 

VIC 1525 PRINTER SCALL 

VIC 1600 SCALL 

AND MORE SCALL 



TRS-80 
PRINTERS 

DMP-100 S309 

DMP-200 SCALL 

DMP-400 SCALL 

DMP-500 SCALL 

DMP-2100 SCALL 

DWII SCALL 

DWP-410 SCALL 

CGP-115 S199 



•TRS-80 DISK SOFTWARE 

•TRS-80 MODEMS AND TERMINALS 

•PANASONIC MONITORS 

•AMDEK MONITORS 

•COMREX MONITORS 

•CARDCO VIC 20/64 PERIPHERALS 

•COMREX COMRITER CR1 DAISY 

WHEEL 
•NEC 
•QUADRAM, IBM, APPLE PRINTER 

BOARDS S MICROFAZER BUFFERS 



F 



FRANKLIN 

COMPUTER CORPORATION 



ACE 1000 COMPUTER 
ACE 1200 COMPUTER 



DISCOUNT < 

PRICED 
FROM 



898 



Novation 




MODEMS 

DISCOUNT C ■■ *■ #% 

PRICED 1 | ^W 

from m m W 



Q]Hayesr 

MODEMS 

$CALL 



\ferbatinr 

DATALIFE DISKETTES 

5 YEAR GUARANTEE 

SCALL 



CALL BEFORE YOU BUY. WE CON- 
TINUOUSLY ADD NEW PRODUCTS 
FOR YOU! 

PRINTERS - WE OFFER CARDS & 
CABLES TO HOOK TO MOST COM- 
PUTERS. 



ALL PRODUCTS WE SELL ARE BRAND NEW 
AND COVERED BY THE MANUFACTURERS 
SPECIFIC WARRANTIES. COPIES AVAILABLE 
UPON REQUEST. 

WE DO NOT SELL ANY USED, RECONDITION- 
ED, FOREIGN OR INFERIOR MODIFIED EQUIP- 
MENT. 

PRICES AND PRODUCTS SUBJECT TO 
CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE 



NEW PRODUCTS 

TRS-80 MODEL IV. . . SCALL 
TRS-80 PORTABLE. . SCALL 

SCALL 



SPECIAL PRICES 

LIST '2695 
OKIDATA PACEMARK 

2350P PRINTER 



350 CPS 



'2066 



FREE UPON REQUEST 

• DISCOUNT PRICE LIST AND INFORMATION 

KIT 
" COPY OF MFR'S WARRANTY 
WRITE 

MICRO MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 

TELEMARKET DEPT NO. "\ 
2803 THOMASVILLE RD E. • CAIRO, GA. 31728 



Circle 264 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 471 



Alcor Pascal Development System Disk 1: 
File Size* Description 



CMD/HELP 


1 


ED/CM D 


20 


ERRORS/DAT 


3 


HELP/HLP 


1 


KEY/HLP 


2 


PASCAL/CM D 


28 


RUN/CM D 


12 



Editor command-help messages 
Full-screen text editor 
Error messages for compiler 
Editor summary-help messages 
Editor control-key-help messages 
Pascal compiler (nonoverlaid) 
Run-time software 



*Size in grans, one gran = 1280 bytes 

Alcor Pascal Development System Disk 2: 
File Size Description 



LINKLOAD/CMD 


9 


Linking loader program 


PASCAUOV1 


3 


Compiler overlay 


PASCAL/OV2 


6 


Compiler overlay 


PASCAL/OV3 


5 


Compiler overlay 


PASCAL/OV4 


10 


Compiler overlay 


PASCALB/CMD 


8 


Overlayed Pascal compiler 
executive 


STRINGS/OBJ 


6 


String library, object code 


STRINGS/PCL 


2 


String library, declarations 


TRSLIB/OBJ 


4 


TRS-80 library, object code 


TRSLIB/PCL 


2 


TRS-80 library, declarations 



Alcor Pascal Development System Disk 3: 

Fi|e Size Description 

DATABASE/PCL 12 Example Pascal program 

PATCH/CMD 9 System patch program for updates 

Txx/PCL 29 24 files with example Pascal 

programs from the tutorial manual 
(xx = manual page number) 

Advanced Development Package Disk: 
File Size Description 



ADP/PAT 1 

BENCHMK/PCL 1 

CODEGEN/CMD 18 

CODEINIT/DAT 5 

OPTIMIZE/CMD 14 



ADP patches for NEWDOS 
Example benchmark program 
Z80-code generator 
Data used by CODEGEN/CMD 
Pascal p-code optimizer 



Table 1: Files included with Alcor Pascal for the TRS-80 
Model I and with the Advanced Development Package op- 
tion. 



file buffer procedures and the capability to pass proce- 
dures and functions as parameters to other procedures or 
functions. Alcor Systems has done a fine job in imple- 
menting this complete version of Pascal in only 48K bytes 
of memory. Even better, everything seems to work. 

Alcor supplements standard Pascal with a comprehen- 
sive library of functions (written in Pascal) for creating 
and manipulating character strings (table 2). Although 
the functions are quite powerful, I found them somewhat 
awkward to use. You can declare a variable to be of type 
STRING, but you must use the string library functions 
for everything, even simple operations such as assigning 
a value to a string and comparing two strings for equali- 
ty. For example, suppose you have a string variable 
named REPLY that contains a user's keyboard response, 
and you want to see whether the user typed "QUIT." You 
must code: 



Function Description 

LEN Length of a string 

LEFTS Left-hand portion of a string 

RIGHTS Right-hand portion of a string 

MID$ Any portion of a string 

STRS Fill a string with specified character 

ENCODEI Convert integer to a string 

ENCODER Convert real number to a string 

ENCODED Convert double-precision number to a string 

DECODEI Convert string to an integer 

DECODER Convert string to a real number 

DECODED Convert string to a double-precision number 

CHARACTER Extract character from a string 

CMPSTR Compare two strings 

CONC Concatenate two strings 

CPYSTR Copy a string 

DELETE Delete characters from a string 

FIND Locate one string within another 

INSERT Insert one string into another 

REPLACE Overlay part of one string with another 



Table 2: String library functions included with Alcor Pascal. 



QSTRING := BLDSTR('QUIT'); 
IF CMPSTR(QSTRING,REPLY) = 

WRITELN ('Goodbye!'); 
DISPOSE(QSTRING) 



EQUAL THEN 



Compare this to the equivalent BASIC code: 

IF REPLY = "QUIT" THEN 
PRINT "Goodbye!" 

Alcor Pascal strings are built in a part of memory 
called the "heap." Every string has a current length 
associated with it, as many as 32,767 characters (this 
maximum is unusually large — many languages limit you 
to 255-character strings). When you create a string using 
the BLDSTR (build string) function, space for the string is 
allocated in the heap. If you do not call the DISPOSE 
function after you are finished with the string, the heap 
space is never recovered. 

Alcor Pascal provides a good interface between 
machine-language routines and Pascal programs. A 
CALLS function lets you load initial values into any of 
the Z80 registers and then pass control to a machine- 
language routine at a fixed address. Machine-language 
routines can be loaded into high memory, and all parts of 
the Alcor system honor the reserved high-memory 
pointer maintained by the disk operating system. Func- 
tions are available to get the address of any Pascal 
variable at run time, and details about their internal 
storage structure are provided so your machine-language 
routines can manipulate Pascal variables. 

Alcor Systems included a set of functions to let TRS-80 
users take advantage of specific hardware features (see 
table 3). Pascal programs using these functions may not 
be compatible with non-TRS-80 Alcor Pascal environ- 
ments. 



472 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



MPC PROTECT APPLES 






And dust. And dirt. And heat. And 
vibration. All the elements that can 
cause a disk drive to turn sour. 

But thanks to a fresh idea from 
MPC Peripherals, Apples* can now run 
in the most demanding environments. 

With BUBDISK: a MPC memory 
module more rugged than a disk drive. 
More versatile than a RAM .10"* 
card. 

A board that uses an 
Intel 7110 bubble. 

The 7110 gives 
BUBDISK a full megabit of 
solid-state memory. As well as three 
times the data access speed of a floppy. 
Over 1000 times the data integrity of 



-Daniel R. Obed.CEO 
MPC Peripherals Corp. 
San Diego, California 

tapes or disks. Plus a 10 -year MTBR 
Assuring that BUBDISK will smoothly 
work in environments where other 
types of mass storage have trouble 
operating at all. 

Because the Intel 7110 bubble is 
non-volatile, MPC's BUBDISK retains 
its memory through power failures 
and power surges. Or when you simply 
turn the Apple off. 

And BUBDISK makes Apples 
portable as well as durable, because it 
doesn't require battery back-up. 
Allowing Apples to operate just about 
anywhere, for any application. From 
truck stops to oil rigs. Grain elevators 
to highway maintenance. 

So remember. If reliable memory 
is going to make or break your design, 
protect it with Intel bubbles. 

Call Intel, toll-free. 
(800) 538-1876. In 
California, (800) 
672-1833. Or write 
Intel Corporation, Lit. 
Dept.#Y-2, 3065 Bowers 
the mpc bubdisk Avenue, Santa Clara, 
Bubble Memory Module. California, 95051. 

featuring an Intel 7110 bubble. 




iny 



delivers 
solutions 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Ine. BUBDISK is a trademark of MPC Peripherals Corp. 



Circle 206 on inquiry card. 






BYTE July 1983 473 



At a Glance 

Name 

Alcor Pascal and Advanced Development Package 

Type 

Pascal language-development system 

Distributor 

Alcor Systems 

800 West Garland Ave., #204 

Garland, TX 75040 

(214) 226-4476 

Price 

Pascal development system (includes text editor), SI 99; text editor 
alone, $60; Advanced Development Package (requires develop- 
ment system), S 125 

Software 

Development system includes a full-screen text editor, Pascal com- 
piler, run-time software, linking loader, and example programs. 
Advanced Development Package contains a p-code optimizer and 
a Z80 native-code generator 

Format 

For TRS-80 Model I and III; 5 'A -inch floppy disks, single density, no 
disk operating system; for CP/M: contact Alcor for available disk 
formats 

Computer 

TRS-80 Model I or III, or Z80-based CP/M system; at least 48K bytes 
of RAM and one disk drive, two recommended 

Documentation 

245-page manual in three-ring loose-leaf notebook; contains com- 
prehensive discussion of language details and system operation. 
Also includes a beginner's guide and a tutorial; some familiarity 
with programming is expected 

Audience 

Programmers in need of a Pascal language-development system 
for the TRS-80 Model I or III or a Z80-based CP/M computer 



Disk Data Files 

One of standard Pascal's widely acknowledged limita- 
tions is the restriction of data-file access to sequential I/O 
(input/output). Most Pascal implementations extend the 
language with some mechanism for random file access. 
Alcor has recently updated its Pascal with procedures to 
support random file access in addition to sequential-file 
access. 

Alcor Pascal lets you specify filenames at run time. 
When a program starts, you are prompted to supply a file- 
name for each file used by that program. You can link 
any file to the screen, printer, a disk file, or a "dummy" 
file. Output to the dummy file is simply discarded. If you 
don't want the system to prompt for filenames in this 
fashion, you can handle the process from within your 
Pascal program. 

Another convenient feature is the ability to handle disk 
I/O errors in your program. For example, if a program 
tries to open a nonexistent file, you can catch this error 
within the program and continue processing. One thing 
missing in the file area is the ability to delete a file from 
within a program. 



Procedure 




or Function 


Description 


CLEARGRAPHICS Clear screen with graphics blank 




(80 hexadecimal) 


SETPOINT 


Turn on graphics pixel 


RSETPOINT 


Turn off graphics pixel 


TESTPOINT 


Test if graphics pixel is on or off 


PEEK 


Read 1 byte of memory 


POKE 


Write 1 byte of memory 


GOTOXY 


Position cursor on screen 


NOBLANK 


Control blanking of next screen line when 




printing a carriage return 


READCURSOR 


Return current cursor position 




(row, column) 


WRITECH 


Write single character at cursor 


WRITESTRING 


Write portion of string at cursor 


CLEARSCREEN 


Clear screen with blanks 


INKEY 


Strobe keyboard, return key if pressed 


GETKEY 


Return key when pressed 


INP 


Read a Z80 port 


OUT 


Write to a Z80 port 


USER 


Call a machine-language routine, pass one 




16-bit integer in HL register pair 


CALLS 


Call a machine-language routine, pass 




values in all registers 


TIME 


Return time of day 


DATE 


Return date 


Table 3: TRS-80 library functions included with Alcor 


Pascal. 




Command 


Description 


APPEND 


Read text from file into memory buffer 


EXIT 


Save file and end edit session 


FIND 


Search for string 


HELP 


List editor instructions 


HSCROLL 


Control horizontal scrolling 


INSFILE 


Insert lines from a file at the cursor 


QUIT 


Discard changes and end edit session 


QUOTE 


Insert nonprintable character(s) 


REPLACE 


Find string and replace with new one 


ROLL 


Set page size for vertical scrolling 


SHOWFILE 


List portion of any disk file 


SHOWLINE 


Move cursor to specified line number 


TABS 


Set tab stops 


WRITE 


Write text from buffer to disk file 


+ 


Move cursor ahead specified number of lines 


- 


Move cursor back specified number of lines 


Single keystroke commands are available to: 


Move 


cursor anywhere on screen 


Scroll back and forth a page at a time 


Delete and insert characters and lines 


Set automatic indenting 


Set and clear tabs, tab backward or forward 


Split, merge, and duplicate lines 


Repeat last FIND or REPLACE command 


Show amount of memory available 


Table 4: Commands provided by the Blaise full-screen text 


editor. 





Full-Screen Editor 

The Alcor system includes a full-screen text editor 
(which may be purchased separately), called Blaise after 
Blaise Pascal. Although this editor has a number of 
powerful features, it has some annoying aspects that kept 
me from using it. Fortunately, Alcor Pascal source files 



474 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Ire 



Olympic Sales 



SERVING YOU 
SINCE 1947 



P.O. Box 74545 216 So. Oxford Ave Los Angeles, CA 90004 

Phone: 12131 739 1130 Cable: "OLYRAV" LSA 

Telex: 67 34 77 Toil-Free Phone Orders: 

Toll-free (In ca; 800 252 2 1 53 800-42 1 -8045 (out of CAI 

Order Des k s open 6 da ys a week! 7:00 AM to 6:00 PM Mon Sat 



l^S^i; 



DON'T BUY ANY PORTABLE COMPUTER 
UNTIL YOU SEE THE NEW COMMODORE! 

* * * COMMODORE'S SX-1 OO PORTABLE! * * * 

* Full 64K COMPLETE L Y PORTABLE! 

* Color Monitor built-in Special Introductory Offer 

* Disk drive built-in (f* ft afl\ a^t\ Q Q 

* FREE software package WIJU 

* Completely compatible with *j> £\ -Tl ZtmmiPi ftf 
the Commodore 64 WW V COMPLETE 

* LOTS OF SOFTWARE AVAILABLE! Retail:$995 



hvited. 
'per cedes 



carry close 
S5.0O0JW0 lm 
times. Corp. ac 
Good subject to availability, this ad s 
all previous ads: fob our warehouse: prices suo 
jeer to change without notice: not responsible 
lor typographical errors, all orders subit 
verification, minimum shpg & hndlg S5 
Sand $2 for S5 forei 



? (or S5 foreigni 

IBM 



SelectripJI 769 95 

15" Carriage BRAND NEW in IBM FACTORY 
CARTONS! DUAL PITCH. CORRECTING, 
includes TWO ELEMENTS, cover & instruction 
manual (IBM Service Dept. will accept 
service contract from you, the buyer}. 



Texas instruments 
Home Computer 

II99/4A 




S1AA COMMODORE 64 

IUV TRADE-IN REFUND 

COMMODORE 64 

$ 



COMMODORE 64 
COMPUTER 



after trade-i 
free RF modulator 
Full color graphics, 
upper /lower case 




NET after $50 rebate from Tl 

You pay us $149.95! 
Plus FREE $50 RF Modulator £*%* 
1200 Peripheral Expansion Box 219.95 
1220 RS 232 Card 149.95 
1240 Disk Controller Card 199.95 
1250Expan. Sys. Disk Drive 319.95 
1260 Memory Exp. Card (32K) 239.95 
1270 P Code Card Ireo,. 1600} 199.95 
1600 Telephone modem 179.95 
4100 Monitor 339.95 
Extended Basic 79.95 LOGO 99.95 
Tl 59 Prog, calc 169.95 
PC100C Printer tor T I 59 159.95 
Tl Programmer (LCD) 59.95 

Tl 58C Prog calc 69.95 



NEW COMPACT COMPUTER 

FROMTIICC40 $199.95 

CC 40 portable computer (22 ounces) 
has more features than some $795 & $995 
portable computers, 31 character display, 
numeric pad, 200 hours on 4 AA batteries 
Tl enhanced Basic language, 6K RAM 
34K ROM, full typewriter keyboard, 
application port for solid state software. 



IVJ 



HEWLETT 
HP-75C «*'£«• PACKARD 
Handheld computer $749 95 

HP 12C Financial calculator 99.95 

HP 1 1 C Scientific calcualtor 73.95 

HP -10C Scientific calculator 58.95 

HP 15C Scientific calculator 99.95 

HP 16C Financial/business calc 99.95 
HP 97 Programmable print calc 595.00 
HP41C Programmable calc 156.95 
HP41CV Programmable calc 

Optical wand 

Printer for 41 CV 

Card reader for 41 CV/C 

IL thermal print/plotter 

Video interface (HP 621 63A) 

HP I L Systems on hand 

IL interface module 

Digital cassette drive 

Extended function mem mod 

Extended memory module 

Time module 

Memory module for 41 C/CV 

Quad memory mod for 41 C 



213.95 
97.95 
26395 
152.95 
389.95 
249.95 



99.95 
439.95 
61.99 
61.99 
61.99 
25.00 
65.00 



TELEVIDEO 910 

TERMINALS 925 

950 

970 

Second pg memory 



599.95 

794.95 

999.95 

1144.95 

69.95 



ffs commodore 

VIC'20$OQ95* 



99 ! 



3 INTELLIGENT WAYS 
TO BUY A COMMODORE 64 

1) You buy one from us at $389.95 

2) You buy one from us at $389.95, then you 
send in an old/new (in any condition) 
computer or TV game to Commodore & 
receive $100.00 from them! 

3) You buy one Commodore64 from us at $389.95 
Then you buy one Timex TS 1000 from us for $44.95 
Then send the Timex to Commodore & get $100.00. 
You invest $44.95 & get $100.00, net gain: $55.05 

Z 80 Card Far Commodore 64 $269.95 

80 Column Card For Commodore 64 169.95 

40 Column Card For VIC-20 99.95 

40 Column Card w/8K mem built-in for VIC-20 139.95 
Video Pack 64K For VIC-20 329.95 

FREE WITH PURCHASE of each Z 80 card, 80 column 
40 column or Video Pack 64, you receive the following: 

Word Master word processor software VIC-20 $129.95 when purchased alone 

Mailing List software 

Telecommunications software 
Due to the tremendous demand of these products, goods 
are subject to availability. Place your orders now! 



in a EP20 NEWFR0M 

Tirief ease l bflOthttf 

Personal Electronic TYPEWRITER 

Sugg. retail:$299.95 

The ultimate portable typewriter! 
Operates on batteries or AC adaptor 



"When purchased as part of this package ONLY 
SPECIAL PACKAGE DEAL: 
VIC-20 99.95 

DATASETTE Recorder 69.95 
GORTEK Software 20.05 
TOTAL Cost 189.95 

You pay $189.95 for $269.95 value! 
Must purchase whole package to take 
advantage of these unheard-of prices! 



DISK DRIVES& OTHER PERIPHERALS 

1541 Disk Drive $369.95 These peripherals 
1530 Datasette 69.95 wor* mth tin 
1525E Printer 339.95 VIC 20 as Delias 

1600 VicModem 99.95 Commodore 64 
1520 NEW! Color printer/plotter 189.95 
1701 NEW! 14" color monitor 289.95 



Franklin ACE 1000 64K 
w/Vista drive & controller 

$1169.00 

Franklin ACE 1000 64K 
vv/12" green monitor 
$ 949. 00 




TRANSTAR MODEL 315 
4 COLOR PRINTER 

$yiO095 



499 ! 



80 column color printer, 
30 color shades, 50 cps 



Transtar130P 130 cps 699.95 

Okidata 80 80 cps 369.95 

Okidata82A 100 cps 439.95 

Okidata 83A 120 cps 689.95 

Okidata 84P 200 cps, parallel 1079.95 

Okidata 84S 200 cps, serial 1169.95 

Okidata 2350P 350 cps , parallel 2195.95 

Diablo 620 Letter quality. 25 cps 999.95 

Diablo 630 Letter quality, 40 cps 1799.95 



MX 80 WITH 
GRAFTRAX 

$ 349 95 



EPSON 

MX80FT $389.95 

MX100 Callus 

FX80 160 cps Callus 



NEC 

8032 $499.95 

Serial IFC 149.95 



SPINWRITERS 
also available 
Call for best price! 



QUME PRINTERS 

Model 1140+/Sprint 1395.00 

IFC Serial or Parallel (required) 84.95 

Tractors 185.95 

Cut sheet feeder 659.95 



AMDEK Monitors 

V300 12" Green 139.95 

V300-A 12" Amber 149.95 

V310 12"Green-TTL 162.95 

V310-A 12"Amber-TTL 162.95 

Color I 13" Composite 309.95 

Color II 13"RGBTTL 719.95 

Color III 13-RGBTTL 389.95 

Color IV 13" RGB Analog 1049.95 

Amplot 4-color 11x 14 bed 759.95 



ALTOS COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

All systems available - call for best price! 



FRANKLIN 

ACEKXX) 

64K APPLE COMPATIBLE 



TIMEX TS-1000 

s 49 95 



with more features than Apple II Plus. 

SPECIAL PACKAGE: 
One ACE 1000 

One Disk Drive with Controller 
One ACE Calc (equal to VisiCalc) 
One ACE Writer with 80 column card 
One spread sheet program 
One green monitor, 9" or 12" 
This whole package for only dj-t 07Q nn 



Timex TS 1000 Computer 

FREE RF modulator 
16K RAM Expansion 
Timex Thermal printer/graphics 
Panasonic(program) recorder 



$45.95 
94.95 
39.95 




Franklin ACE 1200 128K 
(w/o dual IFC) w/12" green 
monitor $1689.00 



SONY. 

SANVO TOSHIBA 

AIWA PERSONAL STEREO 



WM D6 The Professional, rec/playback/dolby 

W 33 AM/FM stereo cass. rec/built-in spkrs 

ICR 4800 Pocket-size 5 hand short wave radio 

M 100B Ultra-slim microcass. rec. Thinnest Vi"\ 

ICR 7600A AM/FM 7 band short wave radio, great unit! 



FM Wak FM Walkman w/headphones, in stereo 
Extra-light weight micro-rec, edit, one touch 
Walkman Stereo player /FM stereo rec, etc. 
Lightweight cass. rec, edit, microphone 
Walkman stereo cass player/hdphnes, beltclip 



SRF30 
M7 

WM F2 
TCM5 
WM4 

SANYO 
MG 35 
MG 12 

AIWA 
HSJ02 
TPM9 
CSJ1 
HSP02 
TOSHIBA 

RP 700F AM/FM short wave radio, stereo 3" speakers 
RPS5 Credit card FM stereo receiver, headphones 



$269.95 
124.95 
67.95 
159.95 
109.95 
49.95 
57.95 
159.95 
69.95 
64.95 



AM/FM stereo, cass. player & more!Fantastic! 
Minisize stereo cass. player, tone cont, case 



69.95 
37.95 



Compact AM/FM stereo cass. rec/play, auto. rev. 149.95 

Voice-activated microcass. rec; 2 spri-2 hrs rec. * 159.95 

Stereo AM/FM cass. rec/player & more 139.95 

World's smallest auto rev rec/player, more! 149.95 



59.95 
57.95 



Franklin ACE 1200 w/ dual IFC 
& w/12" green monitor $1799.00 



BUY 3 PIECES OF SOFTWARE & 
GET THE FOURTH ONE FREE! 

TIMEX Software (75 prognms for you!} 

Stock Option Analyser 16.95 

IRA Planner 15.95 

Real Estate Investment Analysis 14.95 

Personal Finance Planner 12.95 

Portfolio Analysis 14.95 

Budgeter 15.95 

Organizer 16.95 

Checkbook Manager 15.95 

and more and more . . .Call us! 



ATARI*80Q<^ 



48K computer 
$ 



T^V V 



399 



QC**NET AFTER 
* a $100 rebate 



from Atari 

410 Program recorder 79.95 

810 Disk drive 449.95 

850 interface module 189.95 

1025 NEW dot matrix printer 449.95 

80/132 col w/buffer 

NO INTERFACE REQUIRED) 



Opt'l PROGRAMMER KIT with BASIC $69.95 

Good on all Atari computers 



ATARMOO 

$ U9 95 



16K 



NET after $50 Rebate 
from Atari & $50 free 
software offer! 

You pay us $219.95 




Panasonic 

Telephone Answering Machines v -^ v » 

^^^sj?^/ Your Cost 
KXT 1505 Vox dual cassettes ^^^^J 99.95 

KXT 1515 Voice actuation, dual cassettes, remote 139.95 
KXT 1521 Voice, remote, dual cassettes, etc. 189.95 

KXT 1525 Voice act. Remote, dual cassettes OGM 219.95 
KXT 1530 Microprocessor, voice, remote, top of line! 319.95 
NEW. CORDLESS TELEPHONE Model 3830 179.95 

Compact & sophisticated-auto redial & more! 



STAR GEMINI PRINTERS 

THE HOTTEST COMPUTER PRINTER TODAY! 

100 cps Epson pin & plug compatible-180 day warranty 
9 X 9 dot matrix-friction & tractor feed-proportional 
spacing font-bit image graphics-bi-directional logic seeking 
2.3K buffer built in high quality printer for a LOW cost! 
$379.95 10" carriage (80/96/132 col) 
$489.95 1 5 " carriage (1 36/1 63/233 col) 



ATARI 1 200 XL 64K $46995* 

THE ' STATE OF THE ART 'MACHINE! 
Full 64K RAM/256 Colors/16 Function keys & special Help' key 
"your net price after $100 rebate from Atari & $100 software offer. 



Circle 302 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 475 



In Less Than 3 Minutes 

Your IBM Model 50, 60, 65, 75, or 85 

Electronic Typewriter 

can be an RS232C PRINTER or TERMINAL 




CALIFORNIA MICRO COMPUTER Models 5060 and 
5061 can be installed easily and require NO modifications 
to the typewriter. 

For additional information contact: 

CALIFORNIA MICRO COMPUTER 
17791 Jamestown Lane Huntington Beach, CA 
92647(714)847-4141 



From Computer Plus to YOU . . . 

PLUS PLUS PLUS 




BUY DIRECT 



Here are lust a tew of our fine otters . 
call TOLL FREE tor full information. 



Model 12 64K 1 Dnv 
ModeM264K2Driv 
Model IV 16K 
Model IV 64K 

2 Disk A RS232 c 

Color Computer 161 

Color Computer 161 

weitended basic 

jColorComp 

Pocket Computer 2 
Model 16 1DR128K 
Model 16 2DR128K 

Model 100 8* 
Model 100 24K 



32K 



Lynn Direct Connect Ml/Mill 
Hayes Smart Modem i 
Hoyes Smart Modem 1200 
Novation Smartcat 1200 
Novation J-CAI 
RS Acoustic Coupler AC-3 



US Modem) DC 
R S Modem II DC 
RS DC- 1200 
PRINTERS 

Daisy Wheel II 

DWP-410 

Silver Reed EXP 550 DW 

Smith Corona 1PI Daisy Wheel 

CGP-115 

DMP-100 

DMP120 

DMP-200 

DMP-400 

DMP-500 

DMP2100 

Ok i data 82A 

Okidata83A 

OkidaloBlParoliel 



C*id 



a 92 



Color Computer Drive 1 
Color Computer Drive 
Primary Hard Disk Mil 
Primary Hord Disk Mill 

ETC. 

CCR 81 recorder 
C C Joysticks 
16K RAM Chips 
6dK QAM Chips 
32KMicrobuffer Inline 
SOFTWARE 
Brand Name Software • 

Send lor listing 
RS Software 1Q%ot1liSt 
CocoFHLfieiDOS 
Parallel Printer Cables are 
ovoilable lor most computers 



Okidata93 



859 i CororC 

319 Oisnooi 

»» TOLL FREE 



IDOS 



We have the lowest possible 
Fully Warranteed Prices AND 
a full complement of Radio Shack 
Software. 



Prices subiect lo change wilhout notice 
Not responsible for typographical enois 

IBSSOu a regntered trademark or Tandy Corp 



1-800-343-8124 

comp uter 
'plus 

I Wlt« toi ,OU' 



PO Box 926 

480 King Stteel 

Littleton MA 01460 
617 486-3193 



are in the normal TRS-80 ASCII (American National 
Standard Code for Information Interchange) file format. 
You can use any editor that lets you create and modify 
such files. 

The Blaise editor does have some useful functions: a 
HELP command, a fast string-search command, the abili- 
ty to list one file while editing another, the ability to in- 
sert a file (or portion thereof) into the file you are editing, 
and automatic tabbing to help enter properly indented 
Pascal programs (table 4). 

My dissatisfaction with Blaise stems from Alcor's deci- 
sion to make this editor independent of TRS-80 hardware 
characteristics so that it can run on CP/M systems as well 
as the TRS-80. This is a fine goal, but a side effect is that 
Blaise does not fit the TRS-80 hardware very well. For ex- 
ample, it uses the Model I Clear key as a control key. But 
you cannot hold Clear down to repeat a command. 
Therefore, to tab forward twice, you must press Clear-T- 
Clear-T. This problem occurs with many other control 
key functions, and I found it maddening enough to keep 
me from using Blaise. 

Blaise allows you to edit a file too large to fit in 
memory all at once. To do this, you must use explicit 
commands to write some of the front of the file out to 
disk and append more of the file from disk to the memory 
buffer. Once you have written part of a file out to disk, 
you cannot return to editing that part of the file without 
finishing the edit session and starting over from the 
beginning. 

The CP/M version of Alcor Pascal comes with Blaise 
II, a more sophisticated editor that includes word- 
processing features such as justify, fill, cut, paste, and a 
complete macroinstruction language capability. I did not 
have an opportunity to test this version of Blaise. 

Using the Compiler 

Alcor supplies two versions of the compiler: one that 
loads into memory all at once and one that loads several 
overlays from disk as it compiles. The overlaid version 
runs more slowly but takes up less room in memory and 
thus compiles larger programs. Alcor claims that on a 
48K-byte TRS-80, the nonoverlaid compiler can handle 
around 1000 lines of Pascal, whereas the overlaid com- 
piler can process 4000-line programs. These numbers are 
only approximate and are highly dependent on what the 
lines contain. 

The compiler reads its source code from disk and 
creates an object-code file on disk. The nonoverlaid com- 
piler runs at around 100 lines per minute. It generates a 
program listing that can go to the screen, printer, or a 
disk file. Source-code errors are flagged with an arrow 
and one or more error numbers. Messages corresponding 
to the error numbers are printed at the end of the listing. 
Most of the error messages effectively point out the prob- 
lem. Compiler options include: 

•Conditional compilation. Any section of source code 
can be bracketed by conditional statements. If a state- 
ment is true, the bracketed code is compiled; otherwise it 



476 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 102 on Inquiry card. 



SffyF-TyWIBBBf! 



Just plug it into your 

and RUN YOUR BUSINESS! 



f^TITTi 



THE BUSINESS MANAGER 



Integrated Accounting System: 



GENERAL LEDGER 



ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 



The Information Manager 



includes: 
Project Manager™ 
Personnel Manager 1 
Appointment Manager 7 
Report Manager™ 
MicroRIM'DBMS 
Wordstar™ 
Spellstar 
Mailmerge T 



BILLING 



INVENTORY 



ACCOUNTS PAYABLE 
PAYROLL 



WORD PROCESSOR - WORDSTAR™ 



SPELLING CHECKER - SPELLSTAR 1 



FILE MANAGEMENT - MAILMERGE 7 




Electronic Spreadsheet - REPORT MANAGER™ 

A pplication generator+ 3-dimensiona l spreadsheet w/graphics 

Relational Database Management System ™ 

MicroRIM™ (True mainframe capabilities) 



APPOINTMENT MANAGER 1 

Executive's Time Scheduler 



slfiiliif 



PERSONNEL MANAGER™ 

Human Resource Management 



PROJECT MANAGER™-Time Based Project Scheduler 

(Creates PERT & GANTT Charts) 



The best and most complete business program 
package on the market . . . providing all the soft- 
ware and storage you ever wanted. 

* All software pre-installed on 10MB or 15MB hard disk and 
ready to run. No more diskettes and tedious paper work 

* High speed operation 

* All programs self-prompting and menu driven 

* Self-explanatory . . . easy to use 

* All software and hardware fully guaranteed and supported 



^*n^ 



ver: 

AVAIL 
SOON 




€» 



tor 

nquiries 
Invited 

Contact your 
local dealer 






1420 E. Edinger Ave., Suite 115, Santa Ana, CA 92705 

*rcte 55 on inquiry card. (71 4)836"3 569 



Circle 10 on Inquiry card. 



Turbo-Micro Series 8000 

MINI-POWER 
MICRO-PRICE 




§m 






Up to 30 in- 
dependent 
users. 

Powerful Turbo- 
Dos™ operating 
system. Total 
CP/M com- 
patibility. 

• Modular S-100 
Bus structure. 
Easily us 
able. 

• Master/slave net 
working. 8 or 16 
bit processors. 

Available for up to 

300 M Byte Hard Disk, 

Prices from $5,8001 

Dealer inquiries invited. 



CP/M ie a trad* 
TURBO'DOS is 



lark of Oi< 
tradenw 



ilal Research 
of Software 2000. inc. 



dvanced Computer Technology, Inc. 
(619) 571-2746 




OUR ISOLATORS 
FOR YOUR 
PROTECTION 



Prevents: 

disk drive woes, printer interaction, 
memory toes and damage due to 
lightning or AC power line 
disturbances. 

Commercial Grade Isolators 

ISO-1 3 Isolated Sockets $76.95 

ISO-2 2 Isolated Socket Banks, 6 Sockets 76.95 

Industrial Grade Isolators 

ISO-3 3 Double Isolated Sockets 115.95 

ISO-1 1 2 Double Isolated Banks, 6 Sockets 115.95 

Laboratory Grade Isolators 

ISO-1 7 4 Quad Isolated Sockets 200.95 

ISO-18 2 Quad Isolated Banks, 6 Sockets 169.95 

Circuit Breaker, any model (Add-CB) Add 10.00 

Remote Switch, any model (Add-RS) Add 18.00 



/M?- Electronic Specialists, Inc. 

171 South Main Street. Box 389, Natick, Massachusetts 01 760 

Toil Free Order Desk 1-800-225-4876 
MasterCard, VISA, American Express 



is ignored. 

•Separate compilation. A "nullbody" declarative, which 
takes the place of the main program statement, is used to 
create separately compiled procedures and functions that 
can be linked to form an executable program. One 
limitation is that separately compiled modules cannot ac- 
cess global variables unless all such modules have com- 
pletely identical global variable declarations. In a big 
program, this can mean a lot of duplicate source code, 
slowing down the compilation process and defeating the 
purpose of separately compiled modules. 
•Double-precision variables. A "double" declaration 
makes all REAL-type variables double precision. The 
default is single precision. The disadvantage with this is 
that you may frequently want to choose double precision 
for only selected variables. The TRS-80 version of Alcor 
Pascal saves some space in generated code by using the 
BASIC ROM (read-only memory) routines to do 
arithmetic. 

Linking Loader 

Of the two ways to run your program, the easier ap- 
proach is to type "RUN filename," where filename is the 
name of your program. You can use this only if your pro- 
gram was compiled in one piece. The Alcor RUN pro- 
gram interprets p-code (pseudocode), the output of the 
Pascal compiler. P-code is the machine language for an 
imaginary machine, designed specifically to execute 
Pascal programs. A p-code interpreter is a program that 
runs on your hardware and simulates the operation of the 
imaginary p-code machine. 

If your program contains separately compiled 
modules, you must run the linking loader utility. The 
loader requests the names of all separately compiled 
modules. It reads them into memory one at a time and 
produces a single /CMD file, which contains all the 
modules' code plus the p-code interpreter. You can then 
run your program by typing the name of the /CMD file 
from the TRSDOS READY prompt. 

Advanced Development Package 

The optional Advanced Development Package helps 
make Pascal programs more compact and/or faster (see 
table 1). ADP includes a p-code optimizer that 
transforms the code generated by the compiler into a 
smaller, equivalent program. According to Alcor, the op- 
timizer usually reduces a program in size by 10 to 30 per- 
cent. Most of the programs I tried it on were reduced by 
about 20 percent, which can be a critical savings if you 
are pushing the limits of program size. An optimized pro- 
gram is sometimes faster too, but the increase in speed 
depends on the specific program. To achieve its aims, the 
optimizer does several things to a p-code file, including: 

•replacing 2-byte addresses with 1-byte addresses where 

possible 

•eliminating instructions that cancel each other out, such 

as increment followed by decrement 

•replacing constant expressions with constants 



478 July 1983 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Circle 155 on Inquiry card. 




"THE ORIGINAL BIG BOARD" 
OEM - INDUSTRIAL - BUSINESS - SCIENTIFIC 

SINGLE BOARD COMPUTER KIT! 

Z-80 CPU! 64K RAM! 

(DO NOT CONFUSE WITH ANY OF OUR FLATTERING IMITATORS!) 



% 



% 



CO 






h- 












*TJ 






aio 


— , 


a 


= u> 


CO 

o 

a 


ul 




m c a 


2 


«< 


c 




T. "O 




to 

CO 

< 


o a> 
o-o 


(!) 

o 

LL 


> 


w o 


_l 


= co 


, . 


_1 


< n 


o 


<; 

GE 


£< 


z 


< 






a. 







THE BIG BOARD PROJECT: With thousands sold worldwide and over two years of field experience, the Big 
Board may just be one of the most reliable single board computers available today. This is the same design that 
was licensed by Xerox Corp. as the basis for their 820 computer. 

The Big Board gives you the right mix of most needed computing features all on one board. The Big Board was 
designed from scratch to run the latest version of CP/M*. Just imagine all the off-the-shelf software that can be 
run on the Big Board without any modifications needed. 



SQI Q00 (MKKIT 



FULLY SOCKETED! 



FEATURES: (Remember, all this on one board!) 



SIZE: 8V: x 13% IN. 
SAME AS AN 8 IN. DRIVE. 
REQUIRES: +5V @ 3 AMPS 
♦ - 12V @ .5 AMPS. 



64K RAM 

Uses Industry standard 4116 RAM's. All 64K is available to the user, our VIDEO 
and EPROM sections do not make holes in system RAM. Also, very special care 
was taken in the RAM array PC layout to eliminate potential noise and glitches. 



Z-80 CPU 

Running at 2.5 MHZ. Handles all 4116 RAM refresh and supports Mode 2 
INTERUPTS. Fully buttered and runs 8080 software. 



24 x 80 CHARACTER VIDEO 

With a crisp, flicker-free display that looks extremely sharp even on small 
monitors. Hardware scroll and full cursor control. Composite video or split video 
and sync. Character set is supplied on a 2716 style ROM, making customized 
fonts easy. Sync pulses can be any desired length or polarity. Video may be 
inverted or true. 5x7 Matrix - Upper & Lower Case. 



SERIAL I/O (OPTIONAL) 

Full 2 channels using the Z80SIO and the SMC 81 16 Baud Rate Generator. FULL 
RS232! For synchronous or asynchronous communication. In synchronous 
mode, the clocks can be transmitted or received by a modem. Both channels can 
be set up for either data-communication or data-terminals. Supports mode 2 Int. 
Price for all parts and connectors: $39.95 



FLOPPY DISC CONTROLLER 

Uses WD1771 controller chip with a TTL Data Separator for enhanced reliability. 
IBM 3740 compatible. Supports up to four 8 inch disc drives. Directly compatible 
with standard Shugart drives such as the SA800 or SA801. Drives can be 
configured for remote AC off-on. Runs CP/M* 2.2. 



BASIC I/O 

Consists of separate parallel port (Z80 PIO) for use with an ASCII encoded 
keyboard for input. Output would be on the 80 x 24 Video Display. 



TWO PORT PARALLEL I/O (OPTIONAL) 

Uses Z-80 PIO. Full 16 bits, fully buffered, bi-directional. Uses selectable hand 
shake polarity. Set of all parts and connectors for parallel I/O: $19.95 



BLANK PC BOARD — $119 
The blank Big Board PC Board comes complete with full 
documentation (including schematics), the character ROM, 
the PFM 3.3 MONITOR ROM, and a diskette with the source 
of our BIOS, BOOT, and PFM 3.3 MONITOR. 



REAL TIME CLOCK (OPTIONAL) 

Uses Z-80 CTC. Can be configured as a Counter on Real Time Clock. Set of all 
parts: $9.95 



CP/M* 2.2 FOR BIG BOARD 

The popular CP/M" D.O.S. to run on Big Board is available for $139.00. 



BIG BOARD SOFTWARE SPECIAL — $149 

Through special arrangement with CDL we offer a powerful package of TDL Z-80 
software that has a suggested retail ot almost $600. Includes: Extended Disk 
Business Basic, ZEDIT text editor, MACRO II Macrc Assembler, LINKER, 
DEBUG I and DEBUG II. Supplied on 8 in. diskette with extensive manual. 



PFM 3.3 2K SYSTEM MONITOR 



The real power of the Big Board lies in Its PFM 3.3 on board monitor. PFM commands include: Dump Memory, Boot CP/M*, Copy, Examine, Fill Memory, Test Memory, GoTo, 
Read and Write I/O Ports, Disc Read (Drive, Track, Sector), and Search PFM occupies one of the four 2716 EPROM locations provided. Z-80 is a Trademark of Zilog. 



Digital Research Computers 

(OF TEXAS) 
P.O. BOX461S6S • GARLAND, TEXAS 75046 • (214)271-3538 



TERMS: Shipments will be made approximately 3 to 6 weeks after we 
receive your order. VISA, MC, cash accepted. We will accept COD'S (for the 
Big Board only) with a $75 deposit. Balance UPS COD. Add $4.00 shipping. 

USA AND CANADA ONLY 



•TRADEMARK OF DIGITAL RESEARCH. NOT ASSOCIATED WITH DIGITAL RESEARCH OF CALIFORNIA, THE ORIGINATORS OF CPM SOFTWARE 

"1 TO 4 PIECE DOMESTIC USA PRICE. 



Alcor Pascal 
Optimized 
Z80 Code 

Pascal-80 



Compile 
Time 

0:45 
0:31 
1:03 
0:08 



Run 
Time 

6:39 

6:43 

1:54 

23:34 



Code File Stand-alone 
Size /CMD Size 



1019 
832 

2677 
512 



11307 
11269 
11865 
11776 



•Times are minutes : seconds; file sizes are in bytes 



Table 5: Benchmark comparison of Alcor Pascal with 
Pascal-80. Also listed are the compile times for optimized 
and code-generated Alcor Pascal. 



The ADP also includes a code generator that produces 
optimized Z80 code from a p-code file. Actually, the 
generator does not produce pure Z80 code; it leaves as 
p-code functions that will not benefit much from conver- 
sion. You still need to link the run-time package with the 
generated code to get an executable program. The code 
generator produces a Z80-code file that is typically 2 to 3 
times larger than the corresponding p-code file but runs 3 
to 5 times faster. 

The ADP is noteworthy for its flexibility. A single pro- 
gram can contain all three types of code files: normal 
p-code files produced by the compiler, optimized p-code 
files, and Z80-code files from the code generator. The 
linking loader combines all three file types into a single 
/CMD file. This feature lets you select those parts of a 
program that will most benefit from increase in speed and 
run the code generator on them. 

Performance 

I ran several benchmark programs comparing Alcor 
Pascal and Pascal-80 on the TRS-80. In general, Pascal-80 
compiles programs faster, but programs compiled by 
Alcor Pascal run faster. Listing 1 contains an example 
I borrowed from the article "A High-Level Language 
Benchmark" by Jim Gilbreath (September 1981, page 
180). 



Listing 1: Eratosthenes Sieve high-level language benchmark 
program. 



PROGRAM prime; 

8190; 



CONST 

size 



VAR 

flags : ARRAY! 0. . size ] OF BOOLEAN; 
i , prime, k, count, iter : INTEGER; 

BEGIN 

WRITELNC '10 iterations'); 
FOR iter := 1 TO 10 DO 
BEGIN 

count := 0; 
FOR i := TO size DO 
flags! i] := TRUE; 
FOR i := TO size DO 
IF flags [i] THEN 
BEGIN 



prime := i + i + 3,- 
lc := i + prime; 
WHILE k <= size DO 
BEGIN 

flagstk] := FALSE; 
k := k + prime 
END; 
count := count + 1; 



END; 



WRITELNf count, ' primes') 



END. 



Table 5 shows the results of the test. For each compiler, 
source code was read from disk, an object file was pro- 
duced on disk, and a listing was produced on the screen. I 
used Alcor's nonoverlaid version of the compiler (the 
faster one). Pascal-80 took only 8 seconds to compile the 
benchmark compared to Alcor's 45 seconds. The Alcor 
compiler is not especially slow — it's just that Pascal-80 is 
very fast. Alcor said that its compiler is slower than 
Pascal-80 because it does more work to generate faster- 
running programs. The results in the rest of the table sup- 
port this claim. 

The benchmark ran 3.5 times faster under Alcor Pascal 
than under Pascal-80. The Alcor Z80-code generator 



DOES YOUR E.Q. NEED IMPROVING? 



( Economics Quotient ) 



IT MIGHT. TAKE THIS 
QUICK QUIZ AND FIND OUT. 



True False 

□ □ ( 1 .) When inflation occurs, each 
dollar we have buys more goods and 
services. 

□ □ (2.) As productivity increases, our 
standard of living increases. 

□ □ (3.) One out of five American 
workers belongs to a labor union. 



If you found these questions tough, your 
Economics Quotient, your E.Q., could prob- 
ably stand some improvement. 

A special booklet on our American 
Economic System can help you do just that. 
It's fact-filled, easy reading and free. 

For your free copy, write "Economies'," 
Pueblo, Colorado 81009. 

ANSWERS: IX LZ d'.\ 



The American 

Economic 

System 

We should oil learn 
more about, it. 






480 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



PRESENTING THE 
S100-PC FOR $2999. 




The S100-PC by Lomas Data Products: 
Offering high performance at a "low" price. . . 
and it's IBM-PC diskette compatible. 

The S100-PC is a cost effective high performance 
floppy based system ideally suited to business 
and scientific applications. 

The system offers the following standard features: 

■ Two 5 l A " double sided disk drives 
(640 Kbytes of storage) 

■ Two serial ports, Two parallel ports 

■ Battery protected clock calendar 

■ MS-DOS** operating system (others optional) 

■ 128KRAM 

■ 8 MHZ 8088 processor (8087 optional) 

■ 15 slot SI 00 mother board 

■ Attractive desktop enclosure 

And, the S100-PC is diskette compatible with the IBM-PC and 
most programs will operate without any changes. Plus, with its 
SI 00 bus expansion capability . . . your system will never be 
outdated. 



LDP also offers a complete line of S100 bus board 
products & support for the system integrator . . . 



LIGHTNING ONE*** 8086/8088 CPU 

i or 8088, with 8087 and 8089 coprocessors. Up 
to 10MHZ operation PRICES start at $425.00 

■ HAZITALL SYSTEM SUPPORT BOARD 

2 serial, 2 parallel ports, battery protected clock 

calendar, Hard disk controller host interface 

PRICE $325.00 

■ LDP128/256K DYNAMIC RAM 

Advanced dynamic RAM with LSI controller 

for failsafe operation, parity. 

Price 128K - $495.00, 256K - $Z95.00 

■ RAM67 HIGH PERFORMANCE 
STATIC RAM High speed (100ns) low power CMOS 
static RAM. 128K bytes, extended addressing 

PRICE $1200.00 

■ LDP72 FLOPPY DISK CONTROLLER 

Single/double density, single/double sided disks, 

both 8" and 5!4" inch drives simultaneously. 

PRICE $275.00 

■ LDP88 8088 SINGLE BOARD 
COMPUTER 8088 CPU, IK RAM, 8 K EPROM, 
Monitor RS232 serial port, 8 vectored inter- 
rupts PRICE $349.00 



*CP/M-86. MP/M-86 and CONCURRENT CP/M-86 are trademarks of Digital Research 

**MS-DOS is trademark of Microsoft. 

***Lightmng One is trademark of Lomas Data Products, Inc. 

Circle 239 on inquiry card. 



Two additional boards are available for JULY 
delivery. 

■ LIGHTNING 286 — 80286 CPU BOARD 

Offers 4 times the performance of a 5MHZ 
CPU while maintaining software compatibility. .... 
PRICE CALL 

■ OCTAPORT 8 PORT SERIAL BOARD 

8 serial ports to 19200 baud operation real time 
clock interrupt. Ideal for multi-user systems such as 
MP/M-86* PRICE CALL 



All of LDP boards are fully tested to exacting 
standards and carry a one year warranty. We 
specialize in 16-bit products & support the four 
major operating systems for 16-bit processors: 
CP/M-86*, MP/M-86, CONCURRENT CP/M-86*, 
and MS-DOS (PC-DOS). 

If your application requires 16-bit computing 
power and 
versatility, call 
Lomas Data 
Products today. 



LHP 



Dealer inquiries invited. 

LOMAS DATA PRODUCTS, INC. □ 66 Hopkinton 
Road, Westboro, MA 01581 □ Tel: (617)366-6434 

BYTE July 1983 481 



speeds this up by another factor of 3.5, for a total of 
12.25 times faster than Pascal-80. For a reference point, 
Pascal-80 runs this benchmark about 3.33 times faster 
than Level II BASIC. 

Documentation 

Alcor Systems' manual is professional and a pleasure 
to use. In an industry in which most program documenta- 
tion is barely adequate, Alcor has done a commendable 
job. Especially useful is the Quick Reference Guide that 
covers most aspects of system operation, including 
editor, compiler, and loader commands, error messages, 
the ASCII character set, and the Pascal language syntax. 

The manual comes in a sturdy three-ring loose-leaf 
binder. It contains a Beginner's Guide, four main sec- 
tions, and an index. The first section concisely describes 
the Blaise text editor. Although some familiarity with 
file-editing concepts is assumed, all of the editor com- 
mands are adequately described. 

The second section is devoted to the use of Alcor 
Pascal with your hardware. Alcor included specifics of 
operating the compiler and linking loader, along with a 
description of internal number representation and details 
of the TRS-80 procedure, function, and string libraries. 

A 71 -page tutorial section is also included, which takes 
you through the elements of Pascal programming with 
lots of sample program fragments. The source code for 
the examples is included on disk. A tutorial quiz follows 
some of the chapters. Answers to the quizzes must be 



found in the text, as separate answer keys are not sup- 
plied. The chapter ends with a 01 /2-page sample database 
program, also included on disk. 

A 103-page reference section follows the tutorial, with 
detailed descriptions of every aspect of Pascal syntax and 
semantics. Examples show the use of most keywords but 
are not always extensively explained. If you are already 
familiar with Pascal or a similar language, the tutorial 
and reference sections together are probably all you will 
need. If your experience is limited to BASIC, you may 
want to invest in a good Pascal textbook as well. 

Conclusions 

Alcor Pascal is a powerful language-development 
system for the TRS-80 and CP/M microcomputers. Near- 
ly all of standard Pascal is implemented along with many 
useful extensions to the language. The performance of 
Alcor Pascal programs is usually much better than 
equivalent programs written in BASIC, and the Ad- 
vanced Development Package Z80-code-generator option 
lets you produce even faster programs. 

For a new product as complex as a compiler, the 
system is commendably reliable; I found only a few 
minor bugs. Alcor has produced a significant piece of 
software that I can recommend without reservation. ■ 

Rowland Archer (5420 Loyal Place, Durham, NC 27713) is manager 
of software development for a minicomputer company. He has been 
working with TRSSOs for four years. 



Ifoucan 

now order 

article 

reprints 
from this 



University Microfilms International, 
in cooperation with publishers 
of this journal, offers a highly con- 
venient Article Reprint Service. 
Single articles or complete issues 
can now be obtained in their 
original size (up to 8V2 x 1 1 inches). 
For more information please com- 
plete and mail the coupon below. 

ARTICLE REPRINT 
SERVICE 

University Microfilms International 



D YES! I would like to know more about the Article Reprint 
Service. Please send me full details on how I can order. 
D Please include catalogue of available titles. 



Institution/Company. 

Department 

Address 

City 



.State. 



-Zip. 



University Microfilms International 

Article Reprint Service 
300 North Zee b Road 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106 



482 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



PICKING A PLANT 

SITE IS EASIER, 

WHEN TOO START WITH 

MULTIPLE CHOKES. 




PLANT SITES BY 
THE THOUSANDS. 

As the nation's longest railroad, 
Burlington Northern can offer you 
an outstanding variety of choice 
locations across the country. 

Properties are available 
throughout the 25 states we 
serve— both our own substantial 
real estate holdings and those 
of private developers with whom 
we work closely. 

FROM SEA TO 
SHINING GULF. 

Whether you're looking for a 
rural or an urban location, we'll 
help you find the ideal place for 
your next plant. We have sites in 
or near most major markets from 
Canada to the Gulf, and from the 
Pacific Northwest to Alabama 
and Florida. 



LOCATIONS ARE 
MORE THAN LAND. 

Your needs don't stop at real 
estate. Neither do our services. 
We understand the importance of 
natural resources, people 
resources, transportation and 
a favorable governmental climate. 
So our local experts across the 
country will help you find the 
ideal combination of property and 
business/living environment. 

ONE CALL WILL 

EXPAND TOUR HORIZONS. 

If you want to find out more, call 
Joe Galassi, Vice President, or 
Ed Riebow, Director of Field 



Operations, in St. Paul, at (612) 
298-2346. They can give you a 
wide variety of location choices to 
consider. And each comes with 
America's longest railroad ready 
to go to work for you. 




BURLINGTON 

NORTHERN 

RAILROAD 



Industrial Development Department 
Room R583 
176 East Fifth Street 
St. Paul, Minnesota 55101 



BYTE July 1983 483 



Add High-Level Logical 

Structure to Your 

FORTH Assembler 



Some extensions to your FORTH assembler package 

can make your assembly -language programs 

more readable and easier to write 



by Victor Joseph Grazi 



[Editor's Note: Although this article directly applies to 
FORTH users who already have a FORTH 8080 assem- 
bler, I hope that all assembly-language FORTH users will 
read it. Most of the ideas contained here can be easily 
transferred to other microprocessors. In addition, the set 
of FORTH words described at the end of the article 
removes one of the main objections to using assembly 
language with FORTH, the inability to mix high-level 
FORTH words and assembly-language words in the same 
definition. This supports my view of FORTH, that you 
can have anything you want in it, but you have to be 
willing to implement it yourself. . . .G. W. ] 

We all know the advantages of assembly-language pro- 
gramming. Unfortunately, we also are intimately aware 
of its disadvantages. (Mr. Murphy encapsulated the 
problem quite snugly in his ubiquitous law.) The source 
of the difficulty is that assembly language lacks the fun- 
damental structures we have come to rely on in the 
higher-level languages. Included among these structures 
are variables, variable operators, logical structures, and 
logical connectives. 

The FORTH assembler (being a simple one-pass assem- 



bler) compounds the problem by not allowing forward 
references. It alleviates the tension somewhat, however, 
by having several logical structuring constructs that, in 
principle, remove the need for explicit forward ref- 
erences. These structures are 



• BEGIN, ... AGAIN, 

• BEGIN, ... UNTIL, 

• BEGIN, ... WHILE, ... REPEAT, 

• IF, ... ELSE THEN, 

The purpose of this article is twofold: to extend the list 
of logical constructs by defining a set of FORTH words 
that allows the programmer to think in terms of high- 
level language while programming in assembly language 
and to explain the method used so that more words can 
be defined at will by the programmer as needed. 

For the benefit of those who have never seen FORTH 
assembly language, I must add that FORTH assemblers 
use reverse Polish (postfix) notation (RPN). For example, 
JMP LABEL in traditional assembly language is tran- 



484 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



New from Transtar 



The personal, portable 
daisywheel printer. 




only $599 



Transtar has just taken everything you want in a daisywheel printer and made it 
smaller. And lighter. And quieter. And even more affordable. 

Just plug the new Transtar 120 into your personal computer and watch the best- 
selling word processing programs produce letter-quality print that is unrivaled in 
the industry. At 14 cps Shannon text speed, superscript, subscript, underlining 
and a true boldface become easy parts of your everyday printing. Even using let- 
terhead is now a breeze with the Transtar 120's automatic single sheet loading! 

It's movable. It's storable. It's durable. 

Most surprising though is its personal, transportable size! Weighing in at less than 
1 9 pounds, the Transtar 1 20 takes up less than 1 2 by 1 8 inches of desk space. 
Suddenly, your printer becomes a petite addition to your desk area or a viable 
travelling companion! It even comes with a six-month end-user warranty and a 
national network of authorized service centers to grant you peace of mind. 

With the Transtar 1 20 available now for only $599, aren't you ready for a full- 
function letter-quality printer? 



Transtar 



Box C-96975, Bellevue, Washington 98009 



4 %" 



Circle 419 on inquiry card. 



scribed as { LABEL JMP, } in FORTH assembly 
language. [The braces are the BYTE standard notation for 
isolating FORTH phrases and FORTH words that include 
punctuation. . . .G. W. ] Where one would load a 
register by MOV A,B in the traditional version, the 
FORTH user would write { B A MOV, } (the comma 
in { MOV, } is part of the word). MVI H OFFH becomes 
{ FF H MVI, } and PUSH H is now { H PUSH, }. 
Note the FORTH convention of ending all words that 
assemble code into the FORTH dictionary with a comma. 

One other important implementational difference be- 
tween traditional assembly language and FORTH struc- 
tured assembly language is the use of compound condi- 
tional branch notation, in which the status flag is treated 
as an operand. For example, RC (return on carry) in 
traditional assembly language becomes { CY RETC, } 
(carry, return on condition) in FORTH; JNZ LABEL in 
assembly language becomes { LABEL < > JMPC, } 
(not zero, jump on condition to LABEL). 

The status-flag operands are 



< >0 (not zero) 
= (zero) 
NC (not carry) 
CY (carry) 
PO (parity odd) 
PE (parity even) 
> =0 (positive) 
<0 (negative) 



The test and branch words are 

• CALLC, (call on condition) 

• RETC, (return on condition) 

• JMPC, (jump on condition) 

as well as the standard structure words listed at the begin- 
ning of the article. You are now initiated. 

Let us examine the { BEGIN, ... WHILE, ... 
REPEAT, } construct. This construct assembles the ap- 
propriate jumps so that, when executed, the code that oc- 
curs between { BEGIN, } and { WHILE, } is executed. 
If the test condition is true at that point, the code between 
{ WHILE, } and { REPEAT, } is executed. This is 
followed by another round starting back at { BEGIN, }. 
The cycle continues until the { WHILE, } condition 
becomes false. 

But format does not make the intended meaning as ob- 
vious as possible. For example: 



WHILE( B ORA, <> )W 
M B MOV, 
HINX, 

REPEAT, 

and the difference is even more dramatic when variables 
are introduced. 

In this trivial case, the words { WHILE( } and { )W } 
are simply pseudonyms for { BEGIN, } and 
{ WHILE, } respectively: 

: WHILE( BEGIN, ; 
: )W WHILE, ; 

Variables 

A variable is a 16-bit location in memory with a label 
initially assigned by the FORTH word VARIABLE . For 
example, { VARIABLE TEST-VAR } creates a vari- 
able named TEST-VAR and assigns it an initial value of 
0. The phrase { TEST-VAR LHLD, } picks up the value 
of TEST-VAR and loads it into the HL register pair. And 
{ TEST-VAR SHLD, } assigns the value in the HL 
register pair to the variable named TEST-VAR . Suppose 
we have two variables named P and Q . To assign the 
value of Q to P we could write { Q LHLD, 
P SHLD, }. [Remember that P and Q are addresses, the 
values of which are placed on the stack and used by 
{ LHLD, } and { SHLD, }. . . G. W.] This is short, 
but it is not as elegant as { P Q < — }, where the word 
< — is defined by 

: < - LHLD, SHLD, ; 

Immediate assignment is similar. To assign the variable 
P the value 3, we could write { 3 H LXI, P SHLD, }, 
but { P 3 < — # } has obvious advantages where the 
new word < — # is defined by 

: < -# H LXI, SHLD, ; 

To increment the variable P by 1, we are no longer bound 
by{ P LHLD, H INX, P SHLD, }, for we can now do 
the same thing with { P + + }, where + + is defined as 



+ + DUP LHLD, H INX, SHLD, 



Similarly: 



- - DUP LHLD, H DCX, SHLD, 



BEGIN, 



<>0 WHILE, 



BORA, 

M B MOV, 
HINX, 
REPEAT, 

becomes somewhat clearer with a little grooming: 



Keep in mind that these words do not assemble any 
obscure code; they are merely handy macro abbrevia- 
tions for the desired assembly-language code. 

For comparison of variables, a subroutine called 
{ (COMPARE) } is in order (its definition is given in list- 
ing 1). Now we can define 



: COMPARE 
CALL, ; 



LHLD, XCHG, LHLD, (COMPARE) 



486 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 








ATEST 




WAY TOD 




Alternate Voice/ Data Private Line. 



Voice communication and data transmission in an 
international telephone connection dedicated to your use 
only. That's the latest service from your most complete 
international telecommunications source. 

No one gives you more ways to do business world- 
wide. Dedicated lines. Facsimile, data and voice trans- 
mission. And no one gives you Bell reliability. Now we're 



In 



going all out to give you a competitive edge. In price, 
service. In technological innovation. Call on us when- 
ever international telecommunications can answer 
your needs. 

For more information about Bell's Alternate 
Voice/Data Private Line Service, contact your Bell Account 
Executive or call 1 800 821-7979. 




BYTE July 1983 487 



Listing 1: A FORTH 8080 assembly-language word called 
{ (COMPARE) }. This word is used to create the word COM- 
PARE ; see the text for details. 

LABEL (COMPARE) ( compare HL and DE Leave CARRY flag and zero 
flag appropriately set by the result. Don't modify HL or DE I 
B PUSH, A B MOV. B PUSH. ( save BC and A ) 
H A MOV, D CMP, ( compare high bytes ) 
=*0 IF, ( if equal, compare low bytes > 
L A MOV, E CMP, 
THEN, 
B POP, B A MOV, B POP, ( restore BC and A, don't touch flags! 
RET, 



Listing 2: The FORTH definitions of the words { RETURN( } 
and { )R }, which allow an assembly-language definition to 
return to FORTH, depositing set variables onto the stack. See 
the text for details. 

: RETURN ( CSP e !CSP , 

)R SPe >R CSP e R> - -DUP ( get stack depth ) 
IF 

2 = 

IF ( if 2 bytes, i e. one single precision number, 

LHLD, HPUSH ( assemble HPUSH ) 
ELSE ( otherwise, assemble DPUSH ) 
LHLD, XCHG. LHLD, XCHG. DPUSH 
THEN 
ELSE ( no parameters ) 

NEXT ( assemble jump to NEXT ) 
THEN 
CSP ! ; ( reset CSP ) 



so that the code to compare P and Q can be assembled by 
{ P Q COMPARE }, leaving the status flags appropri- 
ately affected by the result of P — Q. (The value of P re- 
mains in HL and the value of Q remains in DE.) 

To assemble an exit back to FORTH from the word be- 
ing defined, we would normally end the assembly-lan- 
guage definition with NEXT to exit with no output 
parameters, HPUSH to exit with the value of the HL reg- 
ister pair returned on the stack, or DPUSH to exit with 
the value of the HL register pair returned on the top of the 
stack and the value of the DE register pair returned 
beneath it. [These words evidently compile ]MPs to 
routines named NEXT, HPUSH, and DPUSH, all of 
which are special entry points to the FORTH 
interpreter. . . .G. W.] The two FORTH words 
{ RETURN( } and { )R } simplify this arrangement. 
The phrase { RETURN( P )R } assembles a return to 
FORTH with the value of the variable P left on top of the 
stack, and the phrase { RETURN( P Q )R } assembles 
the exit with the value of Q on top of the stack and the 
value of P beneath it. Note that P and Q must be vari- 
ables and, as such, must point to their respective values. 
For example, to return with 2 and 1 on the stack, the 
desirable { RETURN( 2 1 )R } will fail. You could use 

2 VARIABLE TWO 
1 VARIABLE ONE 
RETURN( TWO ONE )R 

to accomplish the desired result. The phrase 
{ RETURN( )R } with no output parameters is a 
pseudonym for NEXT . 

The definition of the { RETURN( ... )R } construct, 
shown in listing 2, is the most complex. Note that 
{ IF ... ELSE ... THEN } is the high-level FORTH 
counterpart of the { IF, ... ELSE, ... THEN, } assem- 
bly-language construct. Its usage is proper in the defini- 
tion of this macro rather than the assembly-language 



PC Technology 
Announces 

Syscom II 48k Computer 
Only $649.00 

Apple" 1 Compatible disk drives— $225.00 

Winchester disk drives 5MB— $1375.00 

Tandon disk drives TM100-2— $239.00 

Monitors, Printers, AST Research Combo 

Card, are available at 

unbelievably low prices. 

Software for Apple" & IBM-' PC 

Business, Professional Applications 

& Educational packages. Call for 

your requirements. 



PC Technology (714) 546-3887 

3742W. Warner Ave.. Santa Ana, CA 92704 



Disc Drive Service 
ALIGNMENT 

5V4-S39.D0 8"-$64.00 

• CLEAN • ALIGN ■ SET INDEX • 
■ BENCH TEST ■ SYSTEM TEST • 

ADD SHIPPING CHAAGES 

- Telephone or Marl Orders Please - 
Cashiers Cheeks. Money Oders 

Checks (AHov. TO Oaysl 



BREAKTHROUGH 






V^JJSlT immediate iii^bpb 
^\2S>s DELIVERY %^OS 

MODEMS* MODEMS* MODEMS 

•UDS 103-O/ALP. 300 bps, full duplex, 

manual originate or answer modem 

•UDS 212LP, 1200 bps, full duplex, manual 

originate or answer Modem 

"Other models are available upon request 




ORDER TODAY: 1-800 323-2666 
or 312-459-8866 



i.e. 



I Cost Plus 10% 

iOR LESS! 



FACTORY AUTHORIZED SALES & SERVICE 

g We self and lease M^ 

CompuPro 

^| BHHMHELXLinB 

MORROW DESIGNS 

DECISION 1 

We sell and lease all Morrow products. 
Airport -to- Airport Board Swap (Extra charge) 

Ask about bonus offer. Payroll, GL, AR, AP, your pick of others. 
PRINTERS, TERMINALS, SOFTWARE— CALL 
We cater to experienced users, stale and federal agencies, and 
corporate customers 



We configure business systems 
TERMS: Casn with order 
You pay all freight Add 3 1 



CostPlus 

COMPUTERS 

- n _ _.- .™,- PO. Box 61 14- Birmingham, AL 35259-6114 

£UD O/y-4rO0 Our bank is 1st Nationals Birmingham. (205)326-5120 



CALL US 9 AM to 10 PM 

205 879-5976 



Circle 312 on inquiry card. 



Circle 200 on inquiry card. 



Circle 115 on inquiry card. 




The Micromint 
Collection 



Micromint. Supporting the varied projects that appear in Steve Ciarcia's monthly 
article in BYTE magazine, "Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar." Offering a wide range of 
computers and peripherals supporting the needs of the hobbyist as well as 
worldwide corporate clients. 






MPX-16 MICROCOMPUTER 
IBM PC COMPATIBLE 



Z8 MEMORY, I/O EXPANSION, Z8 CROSS ASSEMBLERS 
CASSETTE INTERFACE 




The MPX-16 is Steve Ciarcia's most ambitious project 
to date. Trie computer runs all application software 
written tor the IBM PC and is IBM PC bus compatible. 
Can be used with video monitor & IBM keyboard with 
optional adapter. 

Buy the MPX-16 in the form that best meets your 
budget. As a bare board, as a wave-soldered board 
that contains all components less the IC's. as an 
assembled and tested circuit board or as a complete 
system 

As featured on the cover of "BYTE" magazine. Also 
featured in "Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar" November, 
December 1982 & January 1983. 

• Runs all application programs written for the IBM 
PC (simply boot up the system and slip in a disk 
formatted for the IBM PC). 

• IBM PC bus compatible I 9 expansion slots. 

• Intel 8088 16-bit microprocessor. 

• Optional Intel 8087 math coprocessor. 

• 256K bytes on-board memory. 

• Up to one megabyte of system memory 

• Up to 64K bytes of system ROM/EPROM 

• Two RS-232C serial I ports. 

• Three parallel I'O ports. 

• Disk controller for 51/4" or 8" drives. 

• Sixteen levels of vectored interrupts. 

MPX-16 Microcomputer circuit board assembled 

W/64K RAM, CP/M-86 or MS-DOS $1,895. 

MPX-16 as above with 256K RAM 2,135. 

MPX-16 Semi-Kit (wave soldered circuit 

board w all components) less IC's 595. 

Complete kit of IC's W/256K RAM 595. 

MPX-16 Unpopulated (bare) pc board 300. 

CP M-86 Operating System 200. 

MS-DOS optionally available 

MPX-16 Switching Power Supply including 

cable harness for 2 disk drives 300. 

MPX-16 Technical Reference Manual 50. 

MPX-16 Metal Enclosure with cutouts for 

two 5i 4 full height drives 300. 

Tandon TM 100-2 double density drive 300. 

Televideo Model 910 Serial Terminal 675. 

IBM PC Keyboard Interface Adapter 100. 

Serial terminal cable 35. 

Parallel printer cable 35. 

Shipping and handling additional on MPX-16 orders. 



Z8 BASIC SYSTEM 
CONTROLLER NEW!!! 

Heplxes IS Basic ComputerContmller 




As featured in Ciarcia s Circuit Cellar, 
BYTE magazine, July & August 1981. 

• Uses Zilog Z8671 single chip microcomputer. 

• On board tiny BASIC interpreter 

• 2 parallel ports plus serial 1.0 port 

• Just connect a CRT terminal and write control pro- 
grams in BASIC 

• 2K bytes of RAM. up to 4K bytes of ROM. 

• Baud rates 110-9600 BPS 

• Data and address buses available for 124K memory 
and I/O expansion 

• Consumes only 1.5 watts at +5, +12& -12. 

• Cross Assemblers for various computers 

8CC11 Assembled & Tested $149. 

New Low Price 



IBM PC is a trademark of International Business Machines, Inc 
CP.M86 is a trademark of Digital Research Inc 
MS-DOS is a trademark of Microsoft Inc 
7.8 is a trademark of Zilog Inc. 




• Add up to 8K of memory plus 3 parallel ports. 

• Cassette Interface— 300 baud K.C. Standard. 
BCC03 w/4K Assembled & Tested $140. 



Z8 ANALOG TO DIGITAL 
CONVERTER NEW!!! 




• Uses Analog Devices 7581 8 channel 8 bit IC. 

• Adds Process Control capability to the Z8 

• 1000 samples per second. 

BCC13 Assembled & Tested $140. 



Z8 EPROM PROGRAMMER 




• Transfer BASIC or Assembly Language application 
programs from RAM to 2716 or 2732 EPROM. 

• Requires Z8 Expansion Board for operation 
BCC07 Assembled & Tested $145. 



Z8 SERIAL EXPANSION BOARD 




• Adds additional RS 232C and opto-isolated 20 ma 
current loop serial port to the Z8 

• Runs at 75 to 19,200 baud in all protocols 
BCC08 Assembled & Tested $160 . 



Z816K MEMORY EXPANSION 
BOARD NEW!!! 



• Add 16K of additional memory, RAM or EPROM, to 
your Z8 System Controller in any multiple. 

• Uses 2016, 6116, 2716 or 2732 memory types. 
BCC14 w/8K Assembled & Tested $120. 



Z8 FIVE SLOT MOTHER BOARD 




MB02 Assembled & Tested $69. 



From Allen Ashley 

TnS-80 Model I or III $75. 

CP/M 2.2 8 or Northstar 5V4" 150. 

From Micro Resources 

CP/M 2.2 8 "or APPLE SV<" 75. 



SPEECH SYNTHESIZERS 



MICROVOX TEXT-TO-SPEECH 
SYNTHESIZER 



E-Z COLOR GRAPHICS 
INTERFACE 



r 



%£&£& 



As featured in Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar 
BYTE Magazine September October 1982. 

Microvox is a second generation professional voice 
quality text-to-speech synthesizer that is easily inter- 
faced to any computer, modem. RS-232C serial 
or parallel output device and provides speech of 
unbelievable clarity. 

• Unlimited vocabulary. 

• 64 programmable inflection levels. 

• 6K text-to-speech algorithm. 

• Full ASCII character set recognition and echo. 

• R3232C and parallel output. 

• 1000 character buffer, 3000 optional. 

• Adjustable baud rates (75-9600). 

• Spelling output mode. 

• 7 octave music and sound effects. 

• On board audio amplifier & power supply. 

• X-OnX-Off handshaking. 

MV01 Assembled with 1K buffer $299. 

MV02 Complete Kit with 1K butter 219. 

Add $15.00 for 3K butter option. 



SWEET-TALKER VOICE 
SYNTHESIZER 




As featured in Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar 
BYTE Magazine. September 1981 

The Sweet-Talker Voice Synthesizer allows you to add 
speech of unlimited vocabulary to your Apple II or any 
computer with a parallel printer port at very low cost. 

• Utilizes Votrax SC-01A speech synthesizer. 

• Unlimited vocabulary. 

• Text-to-Speech Algorithm on disk for Apple II. 

• Contains 64 phonemes accessed by 6-bit code. 

• Four levels of programmable inflection. 

• On board audio amplifier & volume control. 
ST02 Apple II plug-in, Assembled & Tested 

with Text-to-Speech Algorithm on 3.3 disk . . 141. 
NEW LOW PRICE!!! 

ST01 Parallel Port Version, Assembled 99. 

New Low Price 



VOTRAX SC-01A PHONETIC 
SPEECH SYNTHESIZER 



The SC-01A Speech Synthesizer is a completely self- 
contained solid state device that phonetically synthes- 
izes continuous speech of unlimited vocabulary Used 
in Microvox and Sweet-Talker 

SC01A Quantity 1-99 $52. ea. 

100 + 40. ea. 

1000 + 30. ea. 




As featured in Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar 
BYTE Magazine. August 1982 

Add color graphics, animation & 3-D effects to your 
S-100. TRS-80 Model I and III & Apple II at low cost 
The Super Editor software package includes a pattern 
editor, sprite editor, slide show, and demo scenes all 
in BASIC Can be used with Color Monitor or TV set 
and rf modulator 

• Resolution— 256 X 192 Pixels. 

• 16 colors including Black & Transparent. 

• 16K Bytes on board IO mapped video memory 

• Advanced Tl TMS9918A Color Video Processor. 

• 32 SPRITES facilitates 3-D effect 

• Composite Video output 

• Krell & Terrapin have LOGO software packages to 
support the E-Z Color Boards. 

Apple II E-Z Color plug-in board 
with Super Editor on 3.3 disk. 

EZ01 Assembled & Tested $150. 

EZ02 Complete Kit 125. 

NEWI! S-100 E-Z Color Graphics board with sound 
generator. Atari type joy stick interface, plus MBasic 
CP/M Super Editor Software on 8" disk 

E204 Assembled & Tested $289. 

TRS-80 Model I or Model III E-Z Color w, Super Edi- 
tor software, power supply and enclosure 

Assembled & Tested S249. 

Complete Kit 219. 



300 BAUD ANSWER/ ORIGINATE 
MODEM KIT NEW!!! 




As featured in Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar 
BYTE Magazine, March 1983 

The newest item to Micromint's growing list of 
products is this 300 Baud Modem. It is crystal 
controlled, uses the Tl TMS 99532 IC. contains just 
25 parts and can be used with an acoustic coupler or 
in a direct connect mode. 

MD04 Complete Kit $60. 

MD05 Transformer for Direct Connect Mode 9. 

AC01 Acoustic Coupler Kit 18. 



TRIPLE VOLTAGE 
POWER SUPPLIES 



+ 5v r« 300 ma. + < - 12v <u 25 ma. 

UPS01 Assembled & Tested $35. 

UPS02 Cbmplete Kit 27. 

+ 5v (a 1 Amp. + 12v in .5 Amp. - 12v m 50 ma. 

UPS03 Assembled* Tested 60. 

UPS04 Complete Kit 50. 



MICROMINT INC. 561 Willow Avenue. 
Cedarhurst, NY 11516 
To Order: Call Toll Free 1-800-645-3479 
For Information Call: 1-516-374-6793 
Call: Monday-Friday, 9-5 PM 




Circle 463 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 



489 



Circle 43 on Inquiry card. 



What is man? 

Where does he come from? 

Where is he going? 




In his extraordinary new 
novel, Code of the Life- 
maker, James R Hogan, 
the bestselling author of 
Inherit the Stars takes 
you to a future world in 
which mankind meets 
its match in an alien 
race of intelligent robots 

It's the most amaz- 
ing novel yet from 
the man who puts 
the science back 
in science 
fiction. 



Now on Sale 

A Del Rey Hardcover 

Published by Ballantine Books 



Eco-C 




TM 



Compiler 



Since November of last year, we've been testing our new 
Eco-C Compiler and now it's ready for your Z80'"CP/M™ 
system. Some of the features include: 

• All data types, including float, double and long. 

• Fast, efficient code. For example: Our versions of 
"seive" in January, 1983, BYTE; 15.8 seconds 
(standard) and 11.7 seconds (optimized). 

• Uses Microsoft's MACRO 80™ for REL file output. 

• Standard (K&R) file I/O and library (most in source) 
included. 

• Easy assembly language interface. 

• No royalty fees on generated code. 

The price for Eco-C is $350.00 and includes MACRO 80 (a 
$200.00 value by itself). We'll also include a free copy of 
C Programming Guide while supplies last. 

For further information, call or write: 




P.O. Box 68602 L ^TC N 

Indianapolis, IN 46268 F~T?~*) 

(317) 255-6476 I s — x ~^ / > 



Registered trademarks are: Zilog (Z80), Digital Research 
(CP/M), Microsoft (MACRO 80) and Ecosoft (Eco-C). 



form because the decision to be made is which code to 
assemble during assembly time as opposed to which 
branch to take during run time. 

While we're on the subject of variables, let's see how 
we might access the members of a one-dimensional char- 
acter array residing in memory. Normally, if STRADDR 
were the location of the first element of the array and we 
wanted the Nth item in the array (both STRADDR and N 
are variables), we would write 

N LHLD, XCHG, STRADDR LHLD, D DAD, 

which would leave the HL register pair pointing to the 
desired element. But we can define a word that will 
assemble all the messy stuff for us: 

: [] LHLD, XCHG, LHLD, D DAD, ; 

Now, if we want to get the Nth element of STRADDR 
into the A register, for example, we would write 

STRADDR N[]MA MOV, 

Other niceties include the following definitions: 



< COMPARE <0 ; 
= COMPARE =0 ; 
> = COMPARE > =0 ; 



These definitions allow us to write 

P Q < RETC, ( return if P less than Q) 



or 



P Q = IF, H INX, THEN, ( if P = Q, then 
increment HL) 






Other variations include < f , which compares a 
variable on the left with an immediate number on the 
right. The definition 

: <# LXI, XCHG, LHLD, (COMPARE) 
CALL, <0 ; 

allows us to do the following: 

P <# RETC, ( return if value of P is negative). 

A significant source of frustration in assembly lan- 
guage, particularly FORTH assembly language, is the 
lack of a convenient way to branch based on the results 
of two or more independent tests. For example, in any 
high-level structured language, you can write something 
such as 

WHILE (P = Q AND N < 3 ) 

REPEAT 



490 July 1983 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Circle 152 on Inquiry card. 



Listing 3: These FORTH words allow compound logical tests to 
be carried out in assembly-language definitions. See the text for 
details. 



Listing 4: The FORTH definitions of the words ASM< and 
FORTH< , which allow you to mix high-level and assembly- 
language words in the same definition. See the text for details. 



; LOGICAL STC IF, CMC, THEN. CMC- PSW PUSH, . I set or r 
CARRY flag based on truth of condition, push PSW ) 
: L. . . XTHL. XCHG, ( PSW in DE. HL to stack ) 

LOGICAL ( set CARRY, push PSW ) 

XTHL, ( PSW in HL, DE to stack > 

L A MOV, , ( get flags into A ) 
• ...L A L MOV, H PUSH, PSW POP, ( new flags and A into PSW ) 

D POP, H POP, ( restore registers ) 

CY ( ready for test of CARRY flag ) I ( end of macro ) 
: AND, L. E ANA, ! perform AND, on CARRY flags ) . . , L f 
: OR, L. . . E ORA, ( perform OR, on CARRY flags ) . . . L ; 
XOR, L. , . E XRA, ( perform XOR, on CARRY flags ) . . . L I 



A convenient facsimile for our structured assembler 
would be used as follows: 

WHILE( P Q = LOGICAL N 3 <# AND, )W 

REPEAT 

The word LOGICAL assembles code that sets or resets 
the carry flag based on the truth of the condition (in this 
case, equality). Then it saves the program status word on 
the stack until a connective word ({ AND, }, { OR, }, 
or { XOR, }) is reached. The connective word then 
assembles code that sets or resets the carry flag based on 
the truth of the condition (in this case, <# ) and per- 
forms the appropriate and, or, or exclusive-or operation 
on the current carry flag with the value of the carry flag 
as it was at the time it was saved by LOGICAL. Effective- 
ly, the LOGICAL construct applies the appropriate 
logical connective word ({ AND, }, { OR, }, or 
{ XOR, }) to the expression up to the word LOGICAL, 
with the expression between LOGICAL and the connec- 
tive. LOGICAL, { AND, }, { OR, }, and { XOR, } 
are defined so that they do not modify any of the 
machine registers; see listing 3. 

Mixing High- and Low-Level Words in FORTH 

If you have made it this far, I have a special surprise for 
you. I will now define a word that will allow you to mix 
high-level FORTH words with low-level assembly-lan- 
guage words, back and forth as often as you like, right in 
the same word definition. The word ASM< is actually 
an in-line assembler that is used as follows: 

: ASM-TEST ... (FORTH words) ... ASM< ... 
(assembly-language words) ... FORTH < 
... (FORTH words) ... (etc.) 

The definitions of ASM < and FORTH < are given in list- 
ing 4. The word ASM< saves the current base and CON- 
TEXT vocabulary. It also compiles a mock CFA (code- 
field address) pointer, which appears to the interpreter as 



: ASM< BASE @ CONTEXT @ @ ( save base and CONTEXT vocabulary on 
stack ) 

HERE 6 * , ( compile mock CFA pointer ) 

COMPILE BRANCH HERE , ( compile branch around code, offset 
to be filled in by FORTH< ) 

HERE 2+ , ( compile mock CFA ) 

[COMPILE] ASSEMBLER ( set ASSEMBLER vocabulary ) 
[COMPILE] I ; ( enter execution mode for assembly ) 
IMMEDIATE ( to be executed in compile mode ) 
: FORTH< HERE OVER - SWAP ! ( fill in offset of branch ) 
NEXT ( assemble jump to next ) 

CONTEXT 9 i BASE ! ( restore vocabulary and base; r«set 
c omp i 1 e mode ) 

] , < resume compilation mode ) 



a standard FORTH CFA pointer as compiled into a stan- 
dard FORTH word. This pointer indicates the address 
where the code is to be assembled. It then compiles a 
FORTH branch around the code, so that when the code is 
done executing, control passes back to FORTH beginning 
with the word following the assembled code (see figure 

1). 

The word FORTH < assembles a jump to the FORTH 



DIRECTORY OF 
ONLINE DATABASES 



A Great Tool! Let the DIRECTORY 
OF ONLINE DATABASES guide you 
through more than 1600 databases cov- 
ering information in business, 
economics, finance, science and tech- 
nology, the social sciences, education, 
leisure, and recreation. 

This desk-top reference guide is today's 
choice for thousands of users of com- 
municating microcomputers and termi- 
nals. The easy-to-understand tutorial 
material, uniformly formatted entries, 
and convenient indexes make the 
DIRECTORY the most authoritative 
and up-to-date available. 



Whether the information you want is 
numbers and statistics, pointers to 
people, documents or organizations, or 
the text of a newsletter item, news- 
paper story, or annual report, it's all 
referenced here, in more than 275 sub- 
ject areas, from accounting to wines, 
and a world of information in between. 

Subscribe Now! Start your subscrip- 
tion with the just-published Spring 1983 
issue. U.S. prices: for one year, only 
$75; two years, $140. Mexico and 
Canada: for one year, $85; two years, 
$160. Other countries, one year, $92; 
two years, $175. 



Cited and Used Worldwide 



Accounting 

Advertising- 
A:e;??<>imtitks 
■ . ■ Astitms 
Agricultu 
Aquatic- ' 
Architect 
Arctic. & 
Art-- 
Automotl 

H inking i 
Ftiograph 

Biomedk 
■ Bisected 
Books '& 
Catalog 
Career & 
. Qpport 
Cheniieai 
Chemistr 
Comrriadi, 
Commuru 
* <( 

Industr 

[Confe-rfeii 



Construction 
Cwpuiatifini: 

■ CiHTencv E: 



Please enter my subscription: 

□ 1 year (2 full editions and 2 updates) 

□ 2 years (4 full editions and 4 updates) 
Prepayment must accompany order. 

Name Telephone 

Address 



■■mi.es- . fmmcml imvz&mmu 
Food- & Nutrition^ — 
>-m' Pood Science*** 
V Forest Pv<xK 
V Pi Av.y 



City, State, Zip 

D Check enclosed 



□ Mastercard □ VISA Expiration date . 



Account # - 



Signature (required for credit card holders) 



C4 



CUADRA ASSOCIATES, INC. 

2001 W1LSHIRE BLVD. * SUITE 3D5 

SANTA MONICA. CA 90403 

C213) B29-9972 'TELEX 652421 CUADRA SNM 



Circle 118 on inquiry card. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications lnc 491 



(la) 



HERE (BEFORE) 
i 



MOCK WORD 



-> POINTS TO 



ONE BYTE 

y ONE 16-BIT WORD 

HERE (AFTER)- 



~^\ 



BRANCH 
I 



HIGH-LEVEL 
FORTH WORDS 



T 

MOCK CFA 
I 



'1 



POINTS TO 



(lb) 



HIGH-LEVEL 
FORTH WORDS 



MOCK WORD 
I 



r 



HERE (8EFORE)- 



POINTS TO 



BRANCH 

I 



OFFSET 



MOCK CFA 
I 



POINTS TO 



CAUSES JUMP TO 



"1 



HERE (AFTER) 



CAUSES JUMP TO 



\l 



I 
NEXT JMP, 

' 



ASSEMBLY-LANGUAGE 
CODE 



HIGH-LEVEL 
FORTH WORDS 



Figure 1: Operation of the FORTH words ASM< and FORTH< . In la and lb, the condition of the dictionary is shown after the 
words ASM< and FORTH< , respectively, have executed. The words HERE (BEFORE) and HERE (AFTER) show the positions of 
the dictionary pointer before and after the given word has executed. See listing 4 and the text for details. 



flag, offset ) 



Listing 5: An 8080 assembly-language definition that uses some 
of the words defined in this article. The word MATCH does a 
substring search as defined in the text. 



VARIABLE I 
VARIABLE J 
VARIABLE K 

VARIABLE FALSE 

1 VARIABLE TRUE 

CODE MATCH < TXTAD, CNT, STRAD. LEN 
H POP. LEN SHLD, 

H POP. STRAD SHLD. 
H POP. CNT SHLD, 
H POP. TXTAD SHLD, 
I <-» 

WHILEI I CNT < )U 

J I <- K <-« 

WHILEt K LEN < LOGICAL TXTAD J C 3 MA MOV, 
STRAD KM M CMP, =0 AND, )U 
U ++ K ++ 
REPEAT. 
LEN K ■= 
IF, 

RETURN< TRUE I >R 
THEN, 
I ♦ + 
REPEAT, 
RETURN! FALSE I )R 



inner interpreter routine NEXT and restores the base and 
vocabulary as it was before ASM< . Note that all this 
occurs during compilation time. At run time, the code ap- 
pears to be a standard FORTH word, with all the jumps 
and branches already having been assembled and com- 
piled during compile time. 

None of the machine registers are preserved across 
FORTH words except for the BC register pair, which con- 
tains the FORTH interpretive pointer (which is similar to 
the machine's program counter) and must always be pre- 
served. 

The scope of these methods is endless. Using them, you 
can define arithmetic operators, 1-byte compare 
operators, DO loops, FOR . . . NEXT loops, or any struc- 
tures you want from your favorite languages. 

I will conclude with an example. Suppose you want to 
code a program that is to search CNT bytes of text begin- 
ning at TXTAD for occurrences of the string of length 
LEN at STRAD , where TXTAD , CNT , STRAD , 
and LEN are variables. The program in listing 5 will load 
the initial values from the stack as indicated and then per- 
form the search. The number of bytes searched will be 
returned on top of the stack and a true flag beneath it if 
the string was found, or a false flag otherwise. . 

The listing 5 program is strictly FORTH-structured 
8080 assembly language. Any similarity to popular high- 
level languages is purely intentional. ■ 

About the Author 

Victor Joseph Grazi, who has a master's degree in math, can be 
reached at 220 Elberon Blvd. , Oakhurst, N] 07755. He is offering copies 
of his implementation of fig-FORTH, available for $50 on North Star 
double-density CP/M disks, with the source and users manual included. 



492 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 







IBM PC-COMPLETE SYSTEM- 
SPECIAL PRICE 

PC System includes 64K IBM PC with 
320 KB Floppy Disk Drive, Controller, 
Color Graphics Card, Monochrome 

Monitor $2490 

IBM PC/XT 

Complete System with Floppy Disk 

Drive, Hard Disk, Color Graphics 

Card, Monitor $4990 

LOTUS 1-2-3 Software $39Q 

HARD DISKS FOR 
APPLE AND IBM 

DAVONG + DATAMAC 

5 MB $1450 

lO MB S1650 

15 MB $2250 

MEMORY BOARDS 
TAVA CORP. 
TRUMPCARD 1 

256K Ram S350 

TRUMPCARD 2 

512K RAM S550 

AST 

IO Plus, Five fnction Card $199 

Combo Plus. 4 function card. Fully 

pop. 256K S490 

Mega Plus. Fully pop. 512K . . $990 

QUADRAM 

Quad Card. Fully pop. 256K $500 
BIG BLUE $470 

HERCULES Graphics Card . . . $490 
MAYNARD SANDSTAR SERIES 

FDC 5 1/4 & 8" | S220 

Multifunction Card $90 

Memory Card $180 

Ad-On Memory Module $90 

Parallel Port Module $70 

Serial Port Module $90 

Clock Calendar Module $70 

Game Adapter Module $50 

DEC RAINBOW lOO 
Complete system 64K PC, Keyboard, 
Two Floppy Drives DS/DD, Mono- 
chrome Monitor $2990 

APPLE n + 

Compatible Computer with 64K, 

Disk Drive, Controller, and Monitor 

S990 








AMU He 

64K System, W/Controller, Disk Drive, 
Monitor 80 Column card Stand $1790 
DISK DRIVE FOR APPLE 

Slimline, or Standard $250 

TAVA 80E 

Apple lie and TRS 80 Compatible 
Dual Purpose Computer . $870 
PERSONAL ACCOUNTANT Software 
for your Apple He and Apple II + . 

CompuShack Price $190 

KAYPRO II COMPUTER 
Complete System $1690 

MONITORS 

NEC, DYNAX 

AMDEK CALL 

PRINCETON GRAPHICS SYSTEMS 

Hi-Res Color $550 



DISK DRIVES FOR IBM PC 

Tandon 100-2 

Shugart 455-2 

Teac 55-B 



$240 
$245 
$255 



PRINTERS 

C-ITOH 

GX-lOO . . . $240 1550 .... $690 

8510 . . . $460 F-IO .... $1290 

F-IO $1690 

OKIDATA 

82A . . . $440 84A $975 

83A.. .$690 92A $575 

93A $970 

BROTHER 

HR-1 $750 

HR-15 $570 

SMITH CORONA 

TP-1 $520 

STAR MICRONICS 

Gemini IO $370 

Gemini 15 $540 

NEC 
SPINWRITER 

7710-1 $1950 3510 $1350 

7715-1 $2100 3515 $1350 

7720-1 . . . $2400 3530 $1550 

7725-1 .... $2400 3550 $1850 

7730-1 .... $1950 PC8023A $450 

TAVA PRINTERS 

BY DIABLO 

DOT MATRIX PRINTERS 

Model 11 

80 Column/lOO CPS $570 

Model 31 

132 Column/lOO CPS CALL 

Model 32 

132 Column/150 CPS CALL 

Model 38 

132 Column/400 CPS $1970 

DAISY WHEEL PRINTERS 
Model 620 

132 Column/20CPS $880 

Model 630 

API/40 CPS Letter Quality . . $1480 

Model 630 

ECX/API-40CPS 

Multi-Lingual $1880 

Tava 80DM 

Dot Mtx, Epson MX80 

Compatible Printer $290 




631 E. First St., Tustin, CA 92680 

PRICES AND AVAILABILITY SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE 



(714) 838-9100 



APPLE is a trademark of Apple Computers, Inc. 
IBM is a trademark of IBM Corp. 



Circle 331 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 493 



Clubs and Newsletters 



C Software for Unix 

Infopro Systems specializes 
in new software and hard- 
ware products that run Unix 
or Unix-like operating sys- 
tems and programs written in 
the C language. The monthly 
newsletter, The Unix Soft- 
ware List, includes product 
reviews, tutorials, industry 
analyses, and details about 
where to find the latest prod- 
ucts. Subscriptions are $54 a 
year and $66 overseas; educa- 
tional and bulk discounts are 
available. For information, 
contact Susan Fiedler, Info- 
pro Systems, POB 33, East 
Hanover, NJ 07936, or call 
(201) 625-2925. 



Osborne Group In 
British Columbia 

The Vancouver Island Os- 
borne Group (VIOG) meets 
on the third Thursday of 
every month at the Saanich 
Public Library, Victoria, Brit- 
ish Columbia. Communica- 
tion with other user groups is 
welcome. A one-time regis- 
tration fee of $20 entitles you 
to receive the newsletter, 
VIOG News. For further in- 
formation, contact Jack Wal- 
raven, Vancouver Island Os- 
borne Group, 2840 Leigh 
Rd., Victoria, British Colum- 
bia V9B 4G3, Canada, or call 
(604) 474-1750 weekends or 
after 7 p.m. 



For Slrlus Users 

Channel 9000 is an in- 
dependent, bimonthly news- 
letter produced by the Per- 
centage Corporation for tech- 
nical users of the Victor 
9000/Sirius 1 computers. It 
features tutorials, news, and 
information. Subscriptions 
are $30 a year. For a compli- 
mentary copy, write to Chan- 



nel 9000, 9742 Marcus Lane, 
Tujunga, CA 91042, or call 
(213) 352-6443; CompuServe: 
72205,43. 



Start with ZSTART 

ZSTART is the monthly 
newsletter produced by the 
Z80 Starter Kit User Group. 
All owners of the SD Systems 
Z80 Starter Kit are welcome 
to join. Annual newsletter 
subscriptions are $10 in 
North America and $15 else- 
where. For information, con- 
tact the Z80 Starter Kit User 
Group, 6000 Puffer Rd., 
Downers Grove, IL 60516. 



For Doctors 
and Dentists 

The Windham Newsletter, 
produced bimonthly by 
Windham Software Inc., 
contains articles on medical 
and dental office-manage- 
ment software that runs on 
IBM and Tandy microcom- 
puters. Annual subscriptions 
are $15. For further informa- 
tion, contact Windham Soft- 
ware Inc., 29/31 Ivanhill St., 
Willimantic, CT 06226, or 
call (203) 456-3530. 



Interact's Tenth 

The HP 3000 International 
Users Group is an indepen- 
dent, nonprofit association of 
those who use timesharing 
systems. Currently in its 
tenth year, the association 
produces a bimonthly publi- 
cation, Interact, as well as a 
quarterly technical journal. 
Annually, the group issues a 
tape of user-contributed soft- 
ware and sponsors two con- 
ferences, one in North Amer- 
ica and the other in Europe. 



For information, write to HP 
3000 International Users 
Group Inc., Suite 205, 289 
South San Antonio Rd., Los 
Altos, CA 94022, or call (415) 
941-9960. 



BAUG's BAUD 

Big Apple Users Digest 
(BAUD) is the monthly publi- 
cation of the Big Apple Users 
Group (BAUG) in New York 
City. The club consists of 
various committees and spe- 
cial-interest groups. The $30 
membership fee includes a 
subscription to BAUD. Single 
issues are $2 a copy; news- 
letter exchanges are welcome. 
For further information, 
write to BAUG, POB 490, 
Bowling Green Station, New 
York, NY 10274. 



Meet In Oregon 

The Portland Area TRS-80 
Users Group (PAUG) meets 
twice a month and produces 
a monthly newsletter. For 
further information, contact 
PAUG, POB 02500, Port- 
land, OR 97202, or call (800) 
452-2444 days and (503) 
659-4088 evenings. 



Attention: 
Neurosclentlsts 

The Neurocybernetics Re- 
search Group (NRG) is dedi- 
cated to advancing the uses 
of microcomputers in real- 
time analysis and feedback of 
EEG signals that create video 
representations of human 
thought patterns. The NRG 
produces a periodic news- 
letter that contains reviews 
on scientific research in brain 
simulation and summaries of 



members' computer-related 
activities in nonclinical brain 
research. Individual dues are 
$95 a year; institutional and 
corporate fees are $250 a 
year. For further informa- 
tion, write to the Neurocy- 
bernetics Research Institute, 
POB 1678, Costa Mesa, CA 
92626, or call (714) 662-7739. 



Many Benefits 
from JACG 

The Jersey Atari Computer 
Group (JACG) is an indepen- 
dent organization of Atari 
users that meets on the sec- 
ond Saturday of each month 
at 10 a.m. in the Bell Labs 
Auditorium, Murray Hill, 
New Jersey. A $15 annual 
membership fee includes a 
subscription to the monthly 
newsletter, access to a disk 
library, and discounts on 
group software purchases. 
For more details, write to 
JACG, 58 Dewey Ave., High 
Bridge, NJ 08829. 



ZBUG for Businesses 

ZBUG is an independent 
group for people using Zenith 
microcomputers in business. 
It strives to increase your 
productivity and profits 
through the exchange of in- 
formation. For further 
details, write to Gerald 
Kalish, Suite 2350, 230 North 
Michigan Ave., Chicago, IL 
60601, or call (312) 372-2150. 



Australian 
Club Open to All 

The Newcastle Microcom- 
puter Club meets twice a 
month at the University of 
Newcastle and is open to 
anyone interested in further- 
ing computer education. The 



494 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



f-&00-538-8513, 



ONLY ALARTGIVES YOU COMPUTERS 

THAT DO SO MUCH AND THE 
"HELP LINE" SO YOU CAN DO MORE. 



Our Help Line could be the most useful 
innovation ever in home computers: it's 
someone to talk to. 

Someone to help you diagnose problems 
when things don't seem to work right. 

Someone to help you 
debug the programs that 
you're writing yourself. 



Someone who knows the answers to your 
questions about what ATARI® Home Comput- 
ers can do, and how to do it. 

Call the ATARI Help Line toll-free: 
1-800-538-8543* And find out how helpful 

ATARI SERVICE 5 " can be, 
even when nothing 
is wrong. 



HlftlfldCIWIbC 



FACTORY AUTHORIZED NETWORK 



Circle 465 on inquiry card. 



WE ANSWEIODURCALL FOR HELP 



California: 1-800-672-1404 



mm" © 1983 Atari, Inc. All Rights Reserved. ©"AWarner Communications Company. 



Circle 178 on Inquiry card. 



ZX FORTH 

forZX81 andTSIOOO 

Simplicity of BASIC with the speed 
of machine code! 



A complete implementation ol the FORTH language for the 
ZX81 and TS1000 computer. FORTH'S most distinctive 
feature is its flexibility. It can turn your computer into a "word 
processor". The basic unit is the WORD — the programmer 
uses existing WORDS to define his own which can then be 
used in further definitions. This makes program development 
much faster than other languages. FORTH is an interactive 
compiled language that expands the capabilities of your own 
ZX81/TS1000. Programs run up to 10 times faster than 
BASIC. The more programs you have written, the more 
words, therefore you can draw on those for further programs. 
FORTH is supplied on Cassette and is accompanied by a 56 
page users manual and an 8 page editors manual. 
(In Canada: $39.95) Z43 $29.95 



Write for your FREE 

ZX81/TS1000 Catalog 

today! 



Tiny Logo 

Teach your children * 

programming skills through 

a computer graphics language. 

It's fun and easy too! $1 9,95 






Order toll free 1-800-833-8400 

NY. (716) 874-5510 

In Canada order toll free 1-800-268-3640 

Have your VISA or MASTERCARD ready! 

GLaOSTOnE- HELECTROniCS 

1585 Kenmore Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. 14217 

In Canada: 1736 Avenue Rd . Toronto Ont M5M 3Y7 

Mail orders VISA MASTERCARD. Checks or money orders 
NoCODs Add $1 50 shipping 



BYTEK's SECOND GENERATION 

UNIVERSAL (E)PROM 

PROGRAMMER— SYSTEM 15 



Features: 
•Bipolar PROMS. 

• Micros - (8748 & 8749) 

> I/O - 6 baud rates, 13 formats including 
Intellec, Textronix and Motorola. 

« EPROMs, (2708 - 27128) 

> Gang option - programs eight at once 

• Remote control option. 



PROGRAMS 

OVER 250 

DEVICE TYPES 



FUNCTIONS CRCRAM 

DISPLAY DEVICE DATA LOAD DATA 

EDIT RAM DATA COMPARE F 

DEVICE PROGRAM FILL MEMOI 

TYPE SELECTION BLOCK MO\ 



mum 



2283 S. Federal Hwy. 



COMPARE FIELDS 
FILL MEMORY FIELD 
BLOCK MOVE 
DIAGNOSTICS 
and more 






w$*c 



COMPUTER SYSTEMS CORP 



Delray Beach, FL 33444 



(305)272-2051 



Clubs and Newsletters. 



$5 annual fee includes a sub- 
scription to the monthly 
newsletter. For more infor- 
mation, contact the Newcas- 
tle Microcomputer Club, 
POB 293, Hamilton, New 
South Wales 2303, Australia. 



NOHUG News 
of New Orleans 

The New Orleans Heath 
Users Group (NOHUG) pro- 
duces a newsletter, NOHUG 
News, that contains reviews, 
updates, and tips. Meetings 
are held regularly. The group 
has a bulletin-board service: 
(504) 467-9896. For further 
information, write to 
NOHUG News, Heathkit 
Electronics Center, 1900 
Veterans Blvd., Kenner, LA 
70062. 



IBM at Home 
and at Work 

The North Texas IBM Per- 
sonal Computer Users Group 
meets regularly to discuss the 
uses of IBM Personal Com- 
puters at home and work. 
The group produces a month- 
ly newsletter, the North 
Texas PC News, that includes 
columns, reviews, updates, 
and an exchange column. For 
further details, contact J. P. 
Pribyl, North Texas IBM Per- 
sonal Computer Users 
Group, 2025 Rockcreek Dr., 
Arlington, TX 76010, or call 
(817) 275-4109. 



Green Mountain 
Apple Languages 

Kingdom Computer Con- 
cepts' Newsletter, produced 
bimonthly by Kingdom Com- 
puter Concepts, contains 
news, programming tech- 
niques, and listings written in 



Apple Pascal and assembly 
language. Request a free in- 
troductory issue from C. 
Sjolander, Kingdom Com- 
puter Concepts, POB 182, St. 
Johnsbury Center, VT 05863. 



New Zealand 
Enthusiasts Meet 

Micro, the monthly publi- 
cation of the New Zealand 
Microcomputer Club, pro- 
vides an events diary and 
reports on the activities of 
more than ten special-interest 
groups. The group meets on 
the first Wednesday of each 
month in Auckland. A lend- 
ing library of computer 
magazines and books is main- 
tained. The $12 annual mem- 
bership ($6 for students) in- 
cludes a subscription to 
Micro. Address further in- 
quiries to the secretary, New 
Zealand Microcomputer 
Club Inc., POB 6210, 
Auckland, New Zealand. 



London Computer 
Clubs Association 

The Association of London 
Computer Clubs (ALCC) co- 
ordinates the diverse plans of 
15 computer clubs in Lon- 
don, England. To promote 
recreational and hobby com- 
puting in London, it organ- 
izes seminars, provides dis- 
counts, and exchanges news- 
letters. Individual club meet- 
ings are open to all those af- 
filiated with ALCC. Recent 
meetings have consisted of 
lectures and demonstrations 
on the BBC microcomputer, 
graphics, and telesoftware. 
For further information, 
write to the Association of 
London Computer Clubs, 
North London Hobby Com- 
puter Club, The Polytechnic 
of North London, Holloway, 
London N7 8DB, England, or 
call 01-607 2789; Telex 
25228. ■ 



496 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 59 on Inquiry card. 



CM 



Ismail compureR book club 

a division of the Library of Computer and Information Sciences 
(the oldest and largest book club for the computer professional) 

Take any 3 books for 
only $1.00 each 
(values to $65.85) 




(Publishers' Prices shown.) 

44904-3. ENCYCLOPEDIA OF COMPUTER 
SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING. Second Edition. 

Edited by Anthony Ralston and Edwin D. Reilly. Jr. 
Now available, the thoroughly revised, updated and 
reorganized ENCYCLOPEDIA features 550 articles 
—over 1,670 pages— 500 photos and over 250 dia- 
grams, graphs and charts on virtually every aspect of 
the computer sciences. 301 distinguished authorities 
write on hardware, software, programming lan- 
guages, artificial intelligence, operating systems, 
computer applications, personal computing, and 
more. Counts as 3 of vour 3 books. 

Publishers Price: $87.50 
39796. THE COMPLETE HANDBOOK OF PER- 
SONAL COMPUTER COMMUNICATIONS: Ev- 
erything You Need to Go Online with the World. 
Alfred Glossbrenner. How to gain access to a universe 
ofinformation with your small computer. Softbound. 

$14.95 
40836. CP/M AND THE PERSONAL COM- 
PUTER Dwyer and Critch/ield. A crisp, detailed 
tutorial that will easily turn the average reader into a 
skilled CP/M user. Features lab exercises in each 
chapter. 512 pages. Illustrated. Softbound. $19.95 
87972. WRITING IN THE COMPUTER AGE: 
Word Processing Skills and Style for Every Writer. 
Fluegelman and Hewes. Everything from types of 
equipment to the fine points of formatting. Soft- 
bound. $10.95 
34129. APPLE II USER'S GUIDE. Lon Poole with 
McNiff and Cook. Step-by-step information you 
need to start using your Apple immediately. " . . .must 
reading for every Apple If owner."— Personal Com- 
puting. 385 pages. Softbound. $16.95 
35552. BASIC AND THE PERSONAL COM- 
PUTER. Dwyer and Critchfteld. A clear, down-to- 
earth introduction with detailed examples and nu- 
merous illustrations. Softbound. $14.95 
46721. EXECUTIVE COMPUTING. John Nevison. 
25 business methods illustrated by computer pro- 
grams, in a step-by-step casebook. Includes: pricing 
techniques, long-range planning, corporate data 
bases, and more. Softbound. $9.95 
62616. MICROCOMPUTER GRAPHICS. Roy E. 
Myers. The essential mathematics and programming 
techniques for applications in BASIC. How to handle 
animated Figures, peripheral equipment, colors and 
resolution, and more. Softbound. $12.45 
84836. TRS-80 GRAPHICS FOR THE MODEL I 
AND MODEL III. Kater and Thomas. A straightfor- 
ward guide packed with examples and instructions. 
Softbound. $12.95 
60663. MASTERING VISICALC. Douglas Hergert 
A step-by-step user's manual shows how to set up 
spreadsheets for financial, business, and numerical 
applications, change parameters, create formulas, 
and more. $21.95 
56515. INTRODUCTION TO WORDSTAR. Arthur 
Naitnan. A "user-friendly" guide to one of today's 
most popular word processing programs. $21.95 



85723. USING THE UNIX SYSTEM. Richard 
Gauthier. A guide to the features of the system. 

$18.95 
55865. INTERFACING MICROCOMPUTERS TO 
THE REAL WORLD. Sargent and Shoemaker. The 
complete guide for computerizing your home, office, 
or laboratory. Examples feature the Z-80 micropro- 
cessor. Softbound. $15.55 
41650. DATA FILE PROGRAMMING IN BASIC: A 
Self-Teaching Guide. Finkel and Brown. How to 
create and maintain files, write BASIC programs 
that operate on files, and more. Softbound. $12.95 
42079. DEVELOPING COMPUTER SOLUTIONS 
FOR YOUR BUSINESS PROBLEMS: A Manag- 
er's Guide to Effective Planning, Implementation, 
and Evaluation of Automation Alternatives. Henry H. 
Petersohn. For every manager who is coping with the 
computer age. $21.95 
68174. PERSONAL COMPUTING, Second Edi- 
tion: Home, Professional, and Small Business 
Applications. Daniel R. McGlynn. A guide to help 
evaluate and select personal computer equipment 
for educational, professional, business, recreational, 
and home use. Softbound. $14.95 
48491. FIGHTING COMPUTER CRIME. Donn B. 
Parker. A highly readable analysis of practically all 
facets of computer crime today— and the outlook for 
tomorrow— with a wealth of newly developed solu- 
tions. 368 pages. $17.95 
37395. CELESTIAL BASIC: Astronomy On Your 
Computer. Eric Burgess. 20 easy-to-rurf programs 
that provide amateur and armchair astronomers with 
important aids to observing and understanding the 
configurations, motions and apparations of our sun 
and moon, the planets and the stars. Softbound. 

$14.95 
45380. THE ENTREPRENEURS MANUAL: Busi- 
ness Start-Ups, Spin-Offs, and Innovative Manage- 
ment. Richard M. White, Jr. $17.50 
78487-2. SMALL BUSINESS COMPUTERS. Koi- 
chiro R. Isshiki. Comprehensive, 478-page guide to 
evaluating business needs, acquiring and installing a 
system. With 6 case studies. Counts as 2 of your 3 
books. $26.95 
81478. SURIVIVAL GUIDE TO COMPUTER SYS- 
TEMS. William E. Perry. Shows how computers 
work and what they can arid cannot do. Includes a list 
of 50 "survival" rules. $17.95 

73518-2. REAL-TOME COMPUTING: With Appli- 
cations to Data Acquisition and Control. Edited by 
Duncan A. Mellichamp. A practical handbook that 
literally takes the place of an entire library of manu- 
facturers' manuals, and can be used as an on-the-job 
reference or a handy desktop guide. With many 
figures and tables. 552 pages. Counts as 2 of your 3 
books. $39.50 

82522. TEACHING YOUR COMPUTER TO 
TALK. Edward R. Teja. A fact-filled guide to voice 
equipment for computers. $15.95 



62652-2. MICROPROCESSORS AND MICRO- 
COMPUTER SYSTEMS. Guthikonda V. Rao Up- 
dated new edition of this classic guide. Covers such 
technical topics as: analog/linear integrated cir- 
cuitry, robotics, microprocessor and memory chip 
reliability, and more. Counts as 2 of your 3 books. 

$38.50 
67174. PASCAL: Introduction to Methodical Pro- 
gramming. Second Edition. Findlay and Watt. 

$16.95 
62613. THE MICROCOMPUTER BUILDER'S 
BIBLE. Chris Johnston. An information-packed 
handbook for the do-it-yourselfer gives easy-to-fol- 
low advice on everything from how to size up your 
computer needs to what to do if the finished com- 
puter doesn't run. $18.95 
73520. REAL TIME PROGRAMMING: Neglected 
Topics. Caxlon C. Foster. Master the programming 
skills needed to connect microcomputers to other 
computers and access their programs. Softbound. 

$9.95 
62722. MIND-STORMS: Children, Computers, and 
Powerful Ideas. Seymour Papert. "... a revolutionary 
book. ..a view of'computers in education that is 
refreshing as well as innovative."— Microcomputing. 
Softbound. $6.95 



4 Good Reasons to Join 

1. The Finest Books. Of the hundreds of books 
submitted to us each year, only the very finest are 
selected and offered. Moreover, our books are always 
of equal quality to publishers' editions, never econ- 
omy editions. 

2. Big Savings. In addition to getting 3 books for 
$1.00 each when you join, you keep saving substan- 
tially—up to 30% and occasionally even more. (For 
example, your total savings as a trial member— in- 
cluding this introductory offer— can easily be over 
50%. That's like getting every other book free!) 

3. Bonus Books. Also, you will immediately be- 
come eligible to participate in our Bonus Book Plan, 
with savings up to 70% off the publishers' prices. 

4. Convenient Service. At 3-4 week intervals (16 
times per year) you will receive the Book Club News, 
describing the Main Selection and Alternate Selec- 
tions, together with a dated reply card. If you want 
the Main Selection, do nothing and it will be sent to 
you automatically. If you prefer another selection, or 
no book at all, simply indicate your choice on the 
card, and return it t>y the date specified. You will 
have at least 10 days to decide. If, because of late mail 
delivery of the News, you should receive a book you 
do not want, we guarantee return postage. 

If the reply card has been removed, 

please write to the Small Computer Book Club 

Dept Y-AB9, Riverside. N.J. 08075 

to obtain membership information and an 
application. 



BYTE July 1983 497 



Ask BYTE 



Conducted by Steve Clarcla 



Getting a Handle 
on Disk Removal 

Dear Steve, 

My new IBM Personal 
Computer was just delivered 
and I have a problem with 
the disk drives: there are no 
ejectors, which makes re- 
moval of a disk a delicate op- 
eration. It is a special prob- 
lem for me because I am dis- 
abled and my manual dexter- 
ity is poor. 

Do you have any sugges- 
tions for disk removal? Per- 
haps a tool of suitable mater- 
ial is what's needed, but so 
far I've had no luck finding 
such an instrument. 
Bob Hayes 
Dallas, TX 

The IBM's 5'A-inch disk 
drives do not include an ejec- 
tor mechanism to facilitate 
disk removal. Because the 
door on the disk drive only 
covers the center position of 
the disk, it would be possible 
to tape a handle to each disk. 
This could be a string or a 
semicircular piece of thin 
plastic that would extend or 
hang out of the drive when 
the disk is inserted. Removal 
would be simplified because 
your capture range would be 
significantly increased. I am 
not aware of any tool de- 
signed for such a purpose, 
but there are some disk drives 
that have a full-width door 
(e. g., Siemens makes one). 
. . .Steve 



Signal Conversions 

Dear Steve, 

For several years I have 
been using Michael Shrayer's 
Electric Pencil with my North 
Star computer for word pro- 
cessing in my law practice. 
As you probably know, that 
program does not work with 
conventional terminals. I am 



using a Polymorphic VTI 
video board with an RF 
(radio frequency) interface 
and an old television set; the 
resolution of that setup leaves 
something to be desired. 

I have put together a Heath 
H-19A terminal for my other 
programs and with the hope 
of modifying it to act as a 
video monitor as well as a 
terminal. Alas, the Heath ter- 
minal video section does not 
use the composite-video 
signal of the sort generated 
by the Polymorphic board; it 
uses separate horizontal and 
video synchronization sig- 
nals. Perhaps I can pick off 
those signals on the Polymor- 
phic board, but I would 
prefer to modify the Heath 
terminal with a gizmo that 
converts the composite-video 
signal to that accepted by the 
Heath video section, with a 
switch to go from the ter- 
minal mode to the monitor 
mode. Do you know of such 
a unit? 

Michael Downey Rice 
Port Washington, NY 

The gizmo that you require 
is called a sync separator. Its 
function is to pick off the 
horizontal and vertical syn- 
chronizing pulses contained 
in the composite-video signal 
and provide separate out- 
puts. A suitable circuit ap- 
peared in the January 6, 1982 
issue of EDN magazine on 
page 207. . . . Steve 



Capacitors Improve 

Response, Prevent 

Oscillation 

Dear Steve, 

In trying to build a new' 
power supply for a pair of 
8-inch Shugart floppy-disk 
drives, I somehow came up 
with the schematic in figure 1 
for a 24-V (volt) regulator. 
After building the supply, I 



found a problem in the 24-V 
portion. It provides a steady 
24 V DC as long as there is a 
load across it (the head-load 
solenoid in this case). When 
the head unloads, the output 
voltage starts to oscillate be- 
tween 7 and 37 V. It con- 
tinues to oscillate until the 
AC power to the supply is 
switched off and on, at which 
time the voltage goes back to 
24 V until the supply is load- 
ed then unloaded again. 
What is causing this prob- 
lem? Any suggestions will be 
appreciated. 

Thank you. 
Mike Minter 
Denton, TX 



Ql 

MJ2955 



It's a good design practice 
to place small-value capa- 
citors on the input and out- 
put of three-terminal regula- 
tors to improve transient re- 
sponse and prevent oscilla- 
tion. The input capacitor C, 
can be anything from about 
0.33 to 1.0 fiF (microfarad). 
Tantalum capacitors are re- 
commended for their high- 
frequency bypass characteris- 
tics, but disk ceramics will 
suffice. The output capacitor 
C should be from 0.01 to 
0.20 /iF and disk ceramic is 
acceptable. The actual values 
are not critical, but they 
should not be omitted. . . . 
Steve 



vt9 

4© 



Q2 

MJ2955 




CI 
lOO^F '. 



II 
7824 



R2 

750ft 

1W 



R3 
90ft 
1/2 W 



+ 24V 
D>5A 

SUPPLY 



C2 

'10<VF 



:c« 



Figure 1: Output current of a three-terminal voltage regulator 
can be increased by using two transistors in parallel. Don't 
forget to include capacitors, to prevent oscillation. 



Conversions and 
Interfaces 

Dear Steve, 

I would like to build a 
data-acquisition system for 
use in a biomedical research 
laboratory. The system must 
be able to sample and store 
1000 samples for each of two 
analog signals, have 8-bit ac- 
curacy, and be able to sample 
at rates from 1 kHz to 1 MHz. 



Is the Z8-based computer de- 
scribed in BYTE fast enough 
to handle these sampling 
rates? (See "Build a Z8-Based 
Control Computer with 
BASIC," Part 1, July 1981 
BYTE, page 38; Part 2, 
August 1981 BYTE, page 50.) 
Could you suggest an A/D 
(analog-to-digital) converter 
that can handle these sam- 
pling rates? The voltages 
sampled would range be- 



498 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 







jr«I:a<i(;l:!I»!l«rt::» 



Itfe got all the bases covered. 



HP-16C. DECREASE YOUR 
PROGRAMMING TIME. INCREASE 
YOUR PRODUCTIVITY. Now software 
engineers and logic designers can spend less 
time on bit-manipulation, Boolean and base- 
conversion functions and more time on 
more productive tasks. Like expanding your 
own creative potential. 

How? Easy. 
The HP-16C programmable calculator is 



Personal computers and calculators 
for professionals on the move. 

PG02315 276R 



capable of converting across four number 
bases, not only hexidecimal, octal, and decimal 
but binary as well. And it has the most power- 
ful combination of bit manipulation, variable 
word size, and programming capabilities of any 
pocket calculator in the marketplace to date. 

For the authorized HP dealer or HP sales 
office nearest you, call TOLL-FREE 800- 
547-3400 and ask for operator #70 (Oregon, 
Alaska, Hawaii: 503-758-1010). 

Circle 187 on inquiry card. 

HEWLETT 
PACKARD 



ra 



Ask BYTE. 



tween +5 and — 5V. 

Also, I would like to build 
the color-graphics interface 
you described for use with a 
Sinclair ZX81 computer, but 
am unsure as to what control 
signals I should use to control 
the TMS9918ANL VDP 
(video display processor). 
(See "High-Resolution Sprite- 
Oriented Color Graphics," 
August 1982 BYTE, page 57.) 
I have interfaced my ZX81 to 
parallel I/O ports, so I am 
familiar with simple inter- 
facing. Can you tell me which 
control signals I should use? 
Can you also give me the ap- 
proximate price of the 
TMS9918ANL VDP and a 
source for this chip7 
Dr. Bill Jackson 
Charlottesville, VA 

Because the Z8 BASIC 
computer runs a BASIC inter- 
preter, its execution of in- 
structions is slower than the 
7-MHz clock rate might im- 
ply. The system actually ex- 
ecutes much less than 100,000 
average BASIC instructions 
per second, so this would not 
meet the upper limit of your 
requirements. The problem 
here is that the processor 
must execute tens of ma- 
chine-level instructions for 
each interpreted BASIC in- 
struction. 

In fact, it would take a 
pretty fast microcomputer to 
take 8-bit samples at a 1-MHz 
rate, especially if the system 
must save them in mass stor- 
age (floppy disk) at the same 
time. Even if the software to 
process the samples was writ- 
ten in machine code, there 
would only be enough time 
for the system to save them in 
memory. Because 8-bit 
microprocessors can only ad- 
dress a maximum of 64K-byte 
memory locations, you 
would be limited to less than 
66 ms (milliseconds) of re- 
cording time at a 1-MHz rate. 
The only solution is to reduce 
the sampling rate or resort to 



some method of direct mem- 
ory access for your A/D con- 
verter. 

If you can live with a 
10-kHz sample rate, National 
Semiconductor's MM5357 
A/D converter is easy to in- 
terface to 8-bit microcom- 
puters. I suggest you see 
James Cameron's "A High- 
Resolution Analog-to-Digital 
Converter" (February 1983 
BYTE, page 378). His article 
contains information on the 
MM5357, as well as a 
schematic diagram showing 
how to interface it to a Radio 
Shack TRS-80. 

The control signals neces- 
sary for the E-Z Color board 
are the R/W line, a Device- 
Select line, Reset, one address 
line, and eight data lines. All 
of these signals can be ob- 
tained from the expansion 
connector on the rear of the 
Sinclair ZX81. 

The TMS9918ANL VDP is 
available from the Micro 
Mint (561 Willow Ave., 
Cedarhurst, NY 11516, (800) 
645-3479; in New York, (516) 
374-6793). It comes with the 
10.7386-MHz crystal and a 
comprehensive 114-page data 
manual published by Texas 
Instruments. It costs $50, plus 
$2 for shipping. . . .Steve 



CP/M Offers Machine 
Independence 

Dear Steve, 

I would like to know of 
any books or articles that 
deal with making a program 
machine-independent. I am 
particularly interested in pro- 
gramming Intel's 8080 and 
Zilog's Z80 microprocessors. 
Specifically, I would like to 
know how to query a disk 
drive to determine record 
size, number of records per 
side, single- or double-den- 
sity, and single- or double- 
sided. Are there any short 
cuts to finding which port the 



video-display console is con- 
nected to7 

I would appreciate refer- 
ences you could provide. 
James Bingham 
Phoenix, AZ 

The fact that there are so 
many computers on the 
market with incompatible 
software testifies to the lack 
of machine-independent pro- 
grams. Even if the programs 
were written for one pro- 
cessor, there is no standard 
for I/O locations. 

The CP/M operating sys- 
tem is designed for 8080 and 
Z80 microprocessors and has 
been adapted for many com- 
puters. Programs written 
under CP/M are essentially 
machine-independent be- 
cause a program written on 
one system can be run on 
another. CP/M has com- 
mands that let you query a 
disk drive for file status and 
record size and to send data 
to the console, the printer, 
and other I/O devices. 

Information about CP/M 
can be obtained from Digital 
Research (POB 579, Pacific 
Grove, CA 93950, (408) 
649-3896) or from the many 
books written on the subject, 
such as the Osborne CP/M 
User Guide by Thorn Hogan 
(Osborne/ McGraw-Hill, 630 
Bancroft Way, Berkeley, CA 
94710). . . . Steve 

Phony Specs 

Dear Steve, 

I heard that a major semi- 
conductor manufacturer once 
put out a specification sheet 
for a "write-only" memory. 
Apparently the company got 
orders for it and sent out a 
rather caustic letter to those 
who had been taken in. 

Do you have any knowl- 
edge of this? I'd like to hear 
about it — I'd also like a copy 
of the specs! 
Joe Pollack 
Buffalo, NY 



/ came across the "write- 
only" memory that you re- 
ferred to in the April 1977 
issue of Kilobaud (now 
Microcomputing) in an arti- 
cle by Peter A. Stark entitled 
"Everything about Semicon- 
ductor Memory. " The speci- 
fication sheet was published 
by Signetics and was ob- 
viously a spoof on a typical 
memory specification sheet. 
. . . Steve 



Remote 
Control Feedback 

Dear Steve, 

I'm gradually converting 
many of my home's lights 
and appliances to remote 
control via the BSR/10X sys- 
tems. I have a problem get- 
ting feedback to determine 
whether a motor is actually 
running or a light is actually 
on or off. One night I had an 
outside light (on a wall- 
switch control) blinking on 
and off randomly until a 
neighbor called to see if 
everything was okay. 

Is there a cheap way to 
sense the flow of a 1-amp, 
60-Hz current in a wire with- 
out connecting to it elec- 
tronically? I've tried small 
coils with diodes but can't get 
a usable voltage. 
R. S. Peterson 
Nashville, TN 

The problem of monitoring 
computer-controlled devices 
is formidable. A simple way 
is to insert a 1- to 2-ohm 
resistor in the line feeding the 
controlled device and mea- 
sure the voltage drop. When 
current is flowing, the AC 
voltage can be rectified to DC 
and used as a status signal. 
An optoisolator is highly 
recommended in such an ap- 
plication. 

Because you don't want an 
electrical connection to moni- 
tor the status, an inductive 
pick-up coil will give the 



500 July 19*3 © BYTE Publications Inc 



necessary information. The 
output voltage from a coil 
around the current-carrying 
wire will be very small and 
must be fed to a high-gain 
amplifier to obtain a usable 
signal. You mentioned that 
you tried small coils with 
diodes, but did you include 
the amplifier? 
Another approach is to 



have a sensing device, such as 
a photodiode, at the con- 
trolled end to provide a feed- 
back signal. This may require 
additional wires to carry the 
sensing signal or the use of 
another receiver-transmitter 
pair that operates through the 
power lines (on different fre- 
quencies, of course). . . . 
Steve 



Follow-up 
Information 



Dear Steve, 

I certainly enjoyed your ar- 
ticle "Make Liquid-Crystal 
Displays Work for You" (Oc- 
tober 1980 BYTE, page 24). 
It's unfortunate that you 
could not adapt one of the 
matrix-type devices for a 



microcomputer peripheral. 

Thank you for the infor- 
mation you supplied in reply 
to my previous letter ("Li- 
quid-Crystal Displays," Au- 
gust 1980 BYTE, page 234). I 
wrote Texas Instruments for 
information on the 28-pin, 
4-bit TMSlOOO-series micro- 
processor that you identified 
for me. In return, I received a 



Serlal-to-Parallel 
Output Conversion 

Dear Steve, 

About two weeks before 
your article "Add Progiam- 
mable Sound Effects to Your 
Computer" came out (July 
1982 BYTE, page 60), I 



bought an I/O board. I was 
elated that I could finally in- 
terface your projects with my 
Apple II Plus. I then bought 
BYTE and there glaring out at 
me was "A sound synthesizer 
that can be interfaced with 
any computer . . . with a 
parallel interface." Oh well. 



Can this project be con- 
verted for use with serial 1/07 
Scott Seller 
Bronx, NY 

The easiest method of driv- 
ing the programmable sound 
generator described in that 
article is to use a parallel port 



such as a Centronics port or 
equivalent. Lacking such a 
parallel port, the next easiest 
method is to convert the 
serial output to parallel by 
means of a UART (universal 
asychronous receiver /trans- 
mitter). A suitable circuit is 
shown in figure 2. . . . Steve 



STROBE 



o 



i2o<JlL 



SWITCH 


DATA 


4 3 


2 


1 


RATE 











SO 








1 


75 





1 





no 





1 


1 


134.5 


1 








150 


1 





1 


300 


1 


1 





600 


1 


1 


1 


1200 


1 








1 800 


1 





1 


2 00 


1 


1 





2 400 


1 


1 


1 


3 600 


1 1 








4 800 


1 1 





1 


7200 


1 1 


1 





9600 


1 1 


1 


1 


19.200 



1N914 

-w- 



100K 
—v*\ — 



D O 
01 O 

D 2 O 



PARALLEL D 3 
OUTPUT 



o 



D4 O 



D 5 O 



D 6 O 
"7 O 



CD4049 
9 



D>n 



:o.i/»F 



+ 5V 



r 

-12V 



11 



19 



ROA 
VCC 

VDD 



RD1 
RD2 
RD3 
RD4 
RD5 
RD6 
RD7 
RD8 



18 



RDAR 
RSI 



CS 

NP 

TSP 

NDB2 

NDB1 

POE 

MR 

GND 

RCP 



COM 2017. 

AY5-1013, 

OR 

EQUIVALENT 

UART 



20 



34 



35 



36 



37 



38 



39 



21 



/77 



MC1489 



i*fr 



+ 5V 
J 



+ 5V 



+ 12V 



12 



+5V STR 



'n 



STT 
*A 

"B 



COM5016 



+ 12V 

EXT 1 



EXT2 



5.0688MHz 



18 



-o 



r^ 



RS-232 
INPUT 



+ 5V 



4.7K (4 PLACES) 

SW1 * 
SW2 
SW3 
SW4 



DATA 
RATE 
GENERATOR 



m 



Figure 2: This UART circuit converts serial data for use by parallel devices. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 501 



Ask BYTE. 



TMS1000 CMOS Family 
Data Manual. The unit has 
four input lines, eight 
parallel-latched output lines, 
ten separately latched output 
lines, two clock connections, 
one initialize, one halt, and 
two power connections. I 
cannot, however, find a 
means of reading out the 
lK-byte by 8-bit instruction 
ROM (read-only memory). 
When you mentioned disas- 
sembling the game program, 
were you referring to the 
Intel /NEC 8048 chip in your 
Mego Mini-Vid, or do you 
know some secret of the 
TMS1000 series? 

I detected some differences 
between the custom-display 
driver circuits in the two 
games. The Microvision unit 
has 6 pins connected to the 
microprocessor and 32 con- 
nected to the matrix display, 
as compared to the 4 and 32 
division you reported for 
Mini-Vid. Perhaps the dif- 
ferent display qualities are 
not entirely due to signal tim- 
ing. Could you please tell me 
the name and address of the 
display-driver manufacturer? 

Finally, your description of 
the inexpensive University 
Kits prompted me to write 
Motorola for information on 
6800 microprocessor kits. 
(See "Quick and Cheap," 
December 1980 BYTE, page 
320.) I hope that the com- 
pany is feeling generous, 
because these are the first 
microcomputers that are in 
my price range. 
Daniel Q. Dye Jr. 
Denver, CO 

The internal program in 
the Intel 8048 can be read by 
external interrogation. At 
one time, NEC (Nippon Elec- 
tric Company) invited you to 
send it your Intel 8048 and in 
exchange you would receive 
an NEC 8048 with your 
original program blown onto 
the new device. 

An LCD matrix is expen- 



sive. One manufacturer of 
them is UCE, 24G Fitch St., 
Norwalk, CT 06855. For the 
experimenter, buying one of 
the games and disassembling 
it for the display is much less 
expensive than buying a 
single LCD directly from a 
manufacturer. The 40-pin 
driver circuit for the matrix 
displays is either the 
HLDC0540 or the HLCD0548 
made by Hughes Aircraft. It 
is available in single-piece 
quantities for under $6. For 
specification sheets and a list 
of distributors, write to 
Hughes Aircraft Co., Solid 
State Products, 500 Superior 
Ave., Newport Beach, CA 
92663. 

I'm glad that you are trying 
to take advantage of the uni- 
versity kits. I am not sure 
how Motorola approaches 
this matter, but Intel has 
always been very attentive to 
students and colleges. In fact, 
in response to all the reader 
queries as a result of my 
December 1980 note, Intel 
has expanded the program 
and is trying to include some 
of the 8088 devices in it as 
well. . . .Steve 



Placing 
Capacitors Correctly 

Dear Steve, 

In Micromint's Z8 micro- 
computer, various capacitors 
are placed throughout the cir- 
cuitry. I understand that 
capacitors are used to smooth 
the voltage in a circuit, but 
exactly what rules are used to 
determine their placement? 
John Buckley 
Bronxville, NY 



Transistor-transistor logic 
(TTL) devices generate a lot 
of noise due to the changing 
of states of their totem-pole 
outputs. During this transi- 
tion, large spikes of current 
are drawn from the supply 



voltages. To keep these 
spikes from interfering with 
other circuits, bypass capaci- 
tors are added between the 
power-supply line and 
ground. Capacitors have the 
property that they pass high- 
frequency voltages while 
blocking direct current. 
When they are placed across 
the power supply, they pro- 
vide a path for voltage spikes 
(high-frequency noise) to get 
to ground, without actually 
shorting the supply. These 
capacitors serve to "despike" 
the power lines. 

A good rule of thumb is to 
use one disk-ceramic capaci- 
tor in the 0.01 to 0.1 pF 
(microfarad) range for every 
four TTL packages. Also, if 
the power-supply lines are 



very long, additional capa- 
citors should be used. Use a 
small tantalum capacitor in 
the 1 to 10 fiF range where the 
power lines enter the board. 

It is better to have a lot of 
small-value capacitors spread 
around the board than one 
large-value capacitor at any 
particular location. Using 
very large capacitors on the 
supply lines (several hundred 
/iF) can be catastrophic in 
some computers. Dynamic 
memories, such as the 4116, 
must have sequenced voltage 
application and removal to 
prevent destruction. Large 
capacitors alter the time con- 
stants of the built-in power 
supply and increase the 
potential for damage. . . . 
Steve ■ 



In "Ask BYTE," Steve Ciarcia answers questions on any area of 
microcomputing. The most representative questions received each 
month will be answered and published. Do you have a nagging 
problem? Send your inquiry to: 

Ask BYTE 

c/o Steve Ciarcia 

POB 582 

Glastonbury CT 06033 
If you are a subscriber to The Source, chat with Steve (TCE3 1 7) 
directly. Due to the high volume of inquiries, personal replies can- 
not be given. Be sure to include "Ask BYTE" in the address. 



BYTE's Bits 



Broadcast Satellite 
System Passes Test 

Last March, International 
Phasor Telecom Ltd. and 
Norsat International Inc., 
two Canadian high-tech- 
nology companies, deemed 
their direct-broadcast encryp- 
tion system completely com- 
patible with the Anik D 
Satellite after a series of tests. 
The tests were part of an on- 
going examination of the 
Phasorlink Encryption Sys- 
tem's capabilities. Phasorlink 
is intended to become an in- 



tegral part of the broadcast 
satellite television industry. 

The 90-minute test pro- 
gram sent Phasorlink through 
14 different operating modes, 
including direct-broadcast 
satellite addressability, pic- 
ture and sound quality con- 
trol, encryption/decryption 
algorithms, and Telidon and 
AT&T videotex transmis- 
sion. The test was emitted 
from BCTV facilities in Bur- 
naby, British Columbia, and 
monitored by satellite broad- 
casting companies in the U.S. 
and Canada. ■ 



502 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Books Received 



The Apple Connection, 
James W. Coffron. Berkeley, 
CA: Sybex, 1982; 263 pages, 
42 by 54 cm, softcover, ISBN 
0-89588-085-7, $12.95. 

Apple II Programmer's 
Handbook, Richard C. Vile 
Jr. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: 
Prentice-Hall, 1982; 276 
pages, 21.5 by 27.5 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-13-O39198-0, 
$16.95. 

The Art of Programming 
the ZX Spectrum, M. James. 
London, England: Bernard 
Babani Ltd., 1983; 138 pages, 
11 by 17.8 cm, softcover, 
ISBN 0-85934-094-5, £2.50. 

Armchair BASIC, Annie 
Fox and David Fox. Berkeley, 
CA: Osborne/McGraw-Hill, 
1983; 180 pages, 18.5 by 23 
cm, softcover, ISBN 
0-931988-92-6, $11.95. 

Basic APPLE BASIC, 
James S. Coan. Rochelle 
Park, NJ: Hayden Book Co., 
1982; 237 pages, 17.8 by 24.5 
cm, softcover, ISBN 0-8104- 
5626-5, $12.95. 

BASIC For the Apple II, 
Jerald R. Brown, Leroy 
Finkel, and Bob Albrecht. 
New York: John Wiley & 
Sons, 1982; 410 pages, 17 by 
15.5 cm, softcover, ISBN 
0471-86596-6, $12.95. 

Byteing Deeper Into Your 
Timex Sinclair 1000, Mark 
Harrison. New York: John 
Wiley & Sons, 1982; 160 
pages, 17 by 25.3 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0471-89888-0, 
$12.95. 

The Computer Coloring 
Book, Alan Freedman, Irma 
Lee Morrison, and Eric Jon 
Nones. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: 
Prentice-Hall, 1983; 60 pages, 
23 by 30.3 cm, softcover, 
ISBN 0-13-164632-X, $6.95. 

Computer Programming 
For Kids and Other Begin- 
ners, Royal Van Horn. Aus- 
tin, TX: Sterling Swift Pub- 
lishing Co. (1600 Fortview 
Rd.), 1982; 144 pages, 21 by 
28 cm, spiral bound, ISBN 
0-88408-151-6, $9.95. A 



Complete Guide For Teachers 
and Parents, 141 pages, 26 by 
29 cm, loose-leaf bound, 
ISBN 0-88408-154-0, $9.95. 

Courseware in the Class- 
room: Selecting, Organizing, 
and Using Educational Soft- 
ware, Ann Lathrop and Bob- 
by Goodson. Menlo Park, 
CA: Addison-Wesley, 1983; 
195 pages, 15.8 by 23 cm, 
softcover, ISBN 0-201-20007, 
$10. 

Create Word Puzzles With 
Your Microcomputer, Ernest 
E. Mau. Rochelle Park, NJ: 
Hayden Book Co., 1982; 304 
pages, 17.7 by 24.6 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-8104-6251-6, 
$14.95. 

Data Base Management 
Systems, David Kruglinski. 
Berkeley, CA: Osborne/ 
McGraw-Hill, 1983; 256 
pages, 18.5 by 23.5 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-931988-84-5, 
$16.95. 

Digital Integrated Circuits, 
Joseph Kasper and Steven 
Feller. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: 
Prentice-Hall, 1982; 200 
pages, 17.3 by 23 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-13-213579-5, 
$12.95. 

Discrete-Time Signals and 
Systems, Nasir Ahmed and 
T. Natarajan. Reston, VA: 
Reston Publishing Co., 1983; 
398 pages, 18.5 by 24 cm, 
hardcover, ISBN 0-8359- 
1375-9, $25.95. 

Doing Business with Super- 
calc, Stanley R. Trost. Berke- 
ley, CA: Sybex, 1983; 270 
pages, 17.8 by 22.8 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-89588-095-4, 
$12.95. 

Electronically Speaking: 
Computer Speech Genera- 
tion, John P. Cater. In- 
dianapolis, IN: Howard W. 
Sams & Co., 1983; 230 pages, 
13.5 by 21.5 cm, softcover, 
ISBN 0-672-21947-6, $14.95. 

Foundations of Computer 
Technology, Joseph C. Giar- 
ratano. Indianapolis, IN: 
Howard W. Sams & Co., 
1982; 240 pages, 21.2 by 28 



cm, softcover, ISBN 0-672- 
21814-3, $22.95. 

The Genie In the Compu- 
ter, Rachel Kohl, Laura Karp, 
and Ethan Signer. New York: 
John Wiley & Sons, 1982; 169 
pages, 21.3 by 28 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-471-87049-8, 
$12.95. 

The HHC User Guide, 
Jonathan Sachs, Sand River 
Software, with Rick Meyer. 
Berkeley, CA: Osborne/ 
McGraw-Hill, 1983; 200 
pages, 16.5 by 23.3 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-931988-87-X, 
$14.95. 

How To Buy A Word Pro- 
cessor, Steven Manus and 
Michael Scriven. Sherman 
Oaks, CA: Alfred Publishing 
Co. Inc. (POB 5964), 1982; 
62 pages, 25.6 by 66 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-88284-222-6, 
$2.95. 

How to Cope With Com- 



puters, Tom Logsdon. Roch- 
elle Park, NJ: Hayden Book 
Co., 1982; 131 pages, 15 by 
23 cm, softcover, ISBN 0- 
8104-5193-X, $7.95. 

IBM BASIC for Business 
and Home, Robert Funk- 
houser. Reston, VA: Reston 
Publishing Co., 1983; 204 
pages, 15 by 23 cm, soft- 
cover, 0-8359-3018-1, $14.95. 

Introduction to Pascal and 
Structured Design, Nell Dale 
and David Orshalick. Lexing- 
ton, MA: D.C. Heath and 
Co., 1983; 575 pages, 17.3 by 
23.3 cm, softcover, ISBN 
0-669-04797-X, $17.95. 

Legal Care for Your Soft- 
ware, Daniel Remer. Read- 
ing, MA: Addison-Wesley 
Publishing Co., 1982; 247 
pages, 21.5 by 28 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-201-06272-0, 
$19.95. 

LOCATE: A Directory for 



*S< 







/ 



& 






A 






AAAI-83^ 



<Sr. 



* N * 



J> 



f 



<f,& 



V 






j* 






A 



# 



f&tpj 



Circle 22 on inquiry card. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 503 



Books Received. 



Purchasers of Law-Office 
Computer Applications and 
Software, Bruce D. Heintz, 
ed. Chicago, IL: American 
Bar Association Press (1155 
East 60th St.), 1982; 74 pages, 
21.6 by 28 cm, softcover, 
ISBN 0-89707-O78-X, $28. 

Machine -Independent 
Organic Software Tools 
(MINT), 2nd ed., M.D. God- 
frey, D.F. Hendry, H.J. Her- 
mans, and R.K. Hessenberg. 
New York: Academic Press, 
1982; 370 pages, 15.5 by 23.5 
cm, hardcover, ISBN 0-12- 
286982-6, $25. 

Mastering Visicalc, Doug- 
las Hergert. Berkeley, CA: 
Sybex, 1983; 240 pages, 17.5 
by 22.8 cm, softcover, ISBN 
0-89588-090-3, $11.95. 

Mathematics for Data Pro- 
cessing, 2nd ed., Frank J. 
Clark. Reston, VA: Reston 
Publishing Co., 1983; 332 
pages, hardcover, ISBN 0- 
8359-4263-5, $21.95. 



Microcomputer Interfac- 
ing, Harold S. Stone. Read- 
ing, MA: Addison-Wesley 
Publishing Co., 1982; 383 
pages, 16.5 by 24 cm, hard- 
cover, ISBN 0-201-07403-6, 
$32.95. 

New Directions in Com- 
puter Design, vol. 1, Saul B. 
Dinman. Tulsa, OK: Penn- 
well Books (POB 21288), 
1982; 127 pages, 21.5 by 27.5 
cm, softcover, ISBN 0- 
87814-209-6, $19.95. 

1982 Semiconductor Mem- 
ories: An Update, Eugene R. 
Hnatek. Tulsa, OK: Pennwell 
Books (POB 21288), 1982; 
132 pages, 21.5 by 28 cm, 
softcover, ISBN 0-87814- 
197-9, $23.95. 

Pocket Computer Primer, 
Hank Librach. Englewood 
Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 
1982; 96 pages, 36 by 54 cm, 
softcover, ISBN 0-13-683854, 
$9.95. 

Principles of Fortran 77 



RacfioShackTRSOTs 

Full Line 





YOU CAN SAVE money when you buy Radio Shack TRS-80 Com- 
puters from Pan American Electronics. Pan American Elec- 
tronics went into business in 1976 and led the way in bringing con- 
sumers original Radio Shack TRS-80 Computers at reduced prices. 
NO other company has done it longer. 
NO other company has done It better and 
NO other company sells them for less. 

Pan American 
Electronics 

TOLL FREE NUMBER 800/531-7466 

1117 Conway Avenue • Department B 
Mission, Texas 78572 
Phone: 512/581-2766 
Telex Number 767339 

tm — Trademark of Tandy Corporation 



Programming, Jerrold L. 
Wagener. New York: John 
Wiley & Sons, 1980; 370 
pages, 50.6 by 66 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-471-04474-1, 
$19.95. 

The Small Computer Con- 
nection: Telecommunications 
for the Home & Office, Neil 
L. Shapiro. New York: Micro 
Text/McGraw-Hill, 1983; 
190 pages, 15.3 by 22.8 cm, 
softcover, ISBN 0-07- 
056412-4, $15.95. 

Some Common Pascal 
Programs, Greg Davidson. 
Berkeley, CA: Osborne/- 
McGraw-Hill, 1982; 235 
pages, 50 by 65 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-981988-73-X, 
$14.99. 

Timex Sinclair 1000, Robin 
Jones and Ian Stewart. Cam- 
bridge, MA: Birkhauser 
Boston Inc. (380 Green St.), 
1982; 156 pages, 15.2 by 23 
cm, softcover, ISBN 3- 
7643-3080-5, $10.95. 

TRS-80 Programmer's 
Sourcebook, J. Bradley Hip- 
pin, ed. Springfield, VA: 
OCEAN, 1983; 80 pages, 
21.5 by 27.8 cm, softcover, 
ISBN 0-912043-00-8, $4.95. 

The TRS-80 Model III 
User's Guide, Tony Bove and 
Leroy Finkel. Somerset, NJ: 
John Wiley & Sons, 1983; 266 
pages, 17 by 25.3 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-471-86242-8, 
$12.95. 

Tools of the Mind, V. 
Stibic. New York: North- 



Holland Publishing Co., 
1982; 297 pages, 16 by 23 cm, 
hardcover, ISBN 0-444- 
86444-X, $35. 

Trade Secrets, James 
Pooley. Berkeley, CA: 
Osborne /McGraw-Hill, 
1982; 145 pages, 16.5 by 23 
cm, softcover, ISBN 0- 
931988-93-4, $11.95. 

Understanding Pascal, 
George Ledin Jr. Sherman 
Oaks, CA: Alfred Publishing 
Co Inc. (POB 5964), 1981; 63 
pages, 25.6 by 66 cm, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-88284-149-1, 
$2.95. 

Verbal Control with Mi- 
crocomputers, Mike Rigsby. 
Blue Ridge Summit, PA: Tab 
Books, 1982; 304 pages, 13 
by 21 cm, softcover, ISBN 
0-8306-1468-0, $11.95. 

The Visicalc Applications 
Book, Jack Grushcow. Res- 
ton, VA: Reston Publishing 
Co., 1983; 286 pages, 15.5 by 
23.5 cm, hardcover, ISBN 
0-8359-8390-0, $19.95. 

Your Timex Sinclair 1000 
and ZX81, Douglas Hergert. 
Berkeley, CA: Sybex, 1983; 
175 pages, 13.8 by 21 cm, 
softcover, ISBN 0-89588-O99- 
7, $6.95. 

Writing in the Computer 
Age, Andrew Huegelman and 
Jeremy Joan Hewes. Garden 
City, NY: Anchor Press/ 
Doubleday, 1983; 254 pages, 
15 by 23.3 cm, softcover, 
ISBN 0-385-18125-6, 
$10.95. ■ 



This is a list of books received at BYTE Publications during this 
past month. Although the list is not meant to be exhaustive, its 
purpose is to acquaint BYTE readers with recently published titles 
in computer science and related fields. We regret that we cannot 
review or comment on all the books we receive; instead, this list is 
meant to be a monthly acknowledgment of these books and the 
publishers who sent them. 



504 July 1983 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Circle 311 on inquiry card. 



Software Received 



Apple 

Address/Dialer, an address, 
phone-number, and appoint- 
ment-management program 
that automatically dials 
phone numbers, redials busy 
numbers, keeps track of 
appointments, and can print 
a mailing list of selected 
names. For the Apple II Plus; 
floppy disk, $79. Christopher 
Systems Corp., 2775 Glen- 
dower Ave., Los Angeles, 
CA 90027. 

Alybadix, a chess-solving 
program that includes opera- 
tion instructions, a simplified 
version of the Matebadix In- 
telligent program, and is ideal 
for solving one to two play- 
ers' chess problems. For the 
Apple II; floppy disk. Price 
not available. Ilkka Blom, 
Palosaarentie 13-17 C 27, 
SF-65200 Vaasa 20, Finland. 

Apple Typewriter Word Pro- 
cessor, a utility package. A 
full-function word processor 
requiring no additional hard- 
ware that features unlimited 
document size, wordwrap 
and right justification op- 
tions, mnemonic editing com- 
mands, and more. For the 
Apple II Plus and He, floppy 
disk, Ultra Software Applica- 
tions, 900 Bellewood Dr. SE, 
Kentwood, MI 49508. 

Bulk Mailer, a direct-mar- 
keting program that features 
mailing-list management with 
a 32,000-name capacity, 
duplication search, and other 
options. For the Apple II; 
floppy disk, $125. Satori 
Software, 5507 Woodlawn 
Ave. N, Seattle, WA 98103. 

Crime Wave, a fast-action 
chase game. Lawlessness runs 
rampant in this city. Hop into 
your trusty cruiser and round 
up would-be bank robbers 
before their Robot Rammers 
turn traffic into a demolition 



derby. For the Apple II; flop- 
py disk, $19.95. Penguin 
Software, 830 4th Ave., 
Geneva, IL 60134. 

The Golf Handicapper, a 
program that keeps track of a 
golfer's overall handicap and 
stroke and putting averages. 
For the Apple II Plus and lie- 
floppy disk, $19.95. Sunshine 
Productions, 108 Courtright, 
San Rafael, CA 94901. 

Golfsoft Statistician, a golf- 
analysis program that lowers 
the golfer's score by evalu- 
ating each stroke on the basis 
of impact feel, initial and 
resultant directions, trajec- 
tory, and relative distance. 
For the Apple II Plus; floppy 
disk, $34.95. Golfsoft Inc., 
10333 Balsam Lane, Eden 
Prairie, MN 55344. 

IDS (Integrated Development 
System). This utility package 
provides sets of screen man- 
agement, disk file I/O, and 
Printline formatting subrou- 
tines. For the Apple II Plus 
and He; floppy disk, $85. 
R.R. Michaels Inc., POB 
2712, Reston, VA 22090. 

Keyshoppe, a grocery-shop- 
ping program. Make your 
weekly grocery shopping 
more efficient with accurate 
lists that can save time and 
money. For the Apple II Plus 
and He; floppy disk, $39.95. 
Universal Instrumentation, 
POB 5254, Huntington 
Beach, CA 92615. 

Menu Builder, a menu- 
writing program. You enter 
menu titles and file names 
and the program writes a 
menu program in Applesoft. 
It also allows screen format- 
ting and editing and can build 
a menu directly from the disk 
catalog. For the Apple II; 
floppy disk, $9.95. Jim's Soft- 
ware, 384 The Great Road, 
Bedford, MA 01730. 



The Menu Writer, a utility 
program that lets you execute 
a file on disk by typing a 
single keystroke instead of 
the whole filename. Menus 
are written in Applesoft 
BASIC or Integer BASIC. For 
the Apple II, II Plus, and He; 
floppy disk, $29.95. Micro 
Unicorn Co., 2156 Mendota 
Way, San Jose, CA 95113. 

New World, a multiplayer 
educational game for all ages. 
The year is 1495 and you are 
in the race for supremacy of 
the New World. Raise your 
flag in many colonies, recruit 
large armies, and return to 
your country with gold. For 
the Apple II; floppy disk, 
$29.95. Automated Simula- 
tions/EPYX, 1043 Kiel Court, 
Sunnyvale, CA 94086. 

Quick File II, a utility 
package that manages files of 
150 to 250 records. It allows 
you to turn your receipts, 
lists, and schedules into 
coherent, accessible reports 
and can print tables, mailing 
labels, and index cards. For 
the Apple He; floppy disk, 
$100. Apple Computer Inc., 
20525 Mariani Ave., Cuper- 
tino, CA 95014. 

Softsight, a comprehensive 
machine-language debugging 
tool. You can observe, ana- 
lyze, and control the execu- 
tion of machine-language 
programs to understand how 
they work, optimize them, or 
locate problems. For the 
Apple II and He; floppy disk, 
$40. Overdrive Computer 
Corp., Suite 2102, 1131 Uni- 
versity Blvd., Silver Spring, 
MD 20902. 

Speedstat 1, a statistical- 
analysis system that produces 
presentation-quality printed 
reports applicable to all types 
of research. You can gain im- 
mediate access to statistical 
information without any pre- 



vious computer experience. 
For the Apple II; floppy disk, 
$250. Softcorp International, 
229 Huber Village Blvd., 
Westerville, OH 43081. 

Thunderbombs, a fast-action 
arcade-type game. Out for a 
cruise in your interstellar 
cloudship, you are suddenly 
trapped in a deadly crossfire 
of alien dronebombs. To de- 
stroy the attacking aliens, 
you must first eliminate their 
supply ships. For the Apple 
II; floppy disk, $19.95. 
Penguin Software (see ad- 
dress above). 



Atari 

Brain Boggier. Music, sound, 
and color add to the chal- 
lenge of unraveling a mysteri- 
ous color code hidden in the 
computer's memory. Find it 
before time runs out. For the 
Atari 400/800; floppy disk, 
$16.95. Educational Software 
Inc., 4565 Cherryvale Ave., 
Soquel, CA 95073. 

The Blade of Blackpoole, an 

adventure-type game. Recov- 
er the magical sword Myra- 
glym from a dangerous, un- 
derwater cavern and return it 
to the altar it was stolen 
from. For the Atari 800; flop- 
py disk, $39.95. Sirius Soft- 
ware Inc., 10364 Rockingham 
Dr., Sacramento, CA 95827. 

Graphics Machine, a pro- 
gram that allows you to 
create high-resolution graph- 
ics by typing in simple com- 
mands such as line, box, cir- 
cle, polygon, fill, and save- 
screen. You can retrieve them 
within five seconds. For the 
Atari 800; floppy disk, 
$19.95. Educational Software 
Inc. (see address above). 

Space Games, three arcade- 
type games. If you are suc- 
cessful in Aliens, Survive, 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 505 



Software Received. 



and Robot Attack, you can 
become a member of the 
Videowiz Patrol. Requires a 
joystick. For the Atari 800; 
floppy disk, $24.95. Educa- 
tional Software Inc. (see ad- 
dress above). 

Spy's Demise, an arcade-type 
game. Your mission is to 
reach the top floor of an em- 
bassy, avoiding guards in the 
elevators, and gather pieces 
of an encoded message 
strategically hidden on each 
floor. For the Atari 400/800; 
floppy disk, $19.95. Penguin 
Software, 830 4th Ave., 
Geneva, IL 60134. 

Tricky Tutorial #2: Horizon- 
tal & Vertical Scrolling, an 

educational program that 
teaches you how to scroll text 
and graphics horizontally, 
vertically, diagonally, or 
even partially. Requires a 
joystick. For the Atari 
400/800; floppy disk, $19.95. 
Educational Software Inc. 
(see address above). 

Twerps, an arcade-type 
game. As Captain Twerp, 
you must rescue nine fellow 
twerps stranded on an aster- 
oid. In your Twerp-Craft, 
shoot Orbiters, avoid Glingas 
and Gleepnoks, and land 
before running out of fuel. 
For the Atari 800; floppy 
disk, $34.95. Sirius Software 
Inc. (see address above). 

CP/M 

C Compiler, a language-com- 
piler program designed to 
operate as either a native or 
cross compiler. It allows C 
programs to be transported, 
without change, within a 
group of Unix-compatible 
systems. For CP/M-based 
systems; floppy disk, $350. 
Telecon Systems, Suite 218, 
1155 Meridian Ave., San 
Jose, CA 95125. 

CBASIC Compiler, a utility 
package of a compiler, link 



editor, and library that con- 
tains features such as struc- 
tured control statements, 
functions, and a variety of 
data types. Other features in- 
clude parameter passing, 
local and global variables, 
and chaining between pro- 
grams. For CP/M-based sys- 
tems; floppy disk, $500. Digi- 
tal Research Inc., 160 Central 
Ave., POB 579, Pacific 
Grove, CA 93950. 

CP/M Plus, an advanced ver- 
sion of CP/M that manages 
and supervises a computer's 
resources, including memory 
and disk storage, screen, 
keyboard, printer, and com- 
munications devices. It also 
handles information stored 
magnetically on disk and can 
copy files from disk to 
memory or a printer. For 
CP/M-based systems; floppy 
disk, $350. Digital Research 
Inc. (see address above). 

dBRx, machine-language rou- 
tines that add several mathe- 
matical functions such as 
sine, cosine, arc tangent, and 
others to enhance dBASE II. 
For CP/M-based systems; 
floppy disk, $150. Gryphon 
Microproducts, FOB 6543, 
Silver Spring, MD 20906. 

Display Manager, a utility 
program that helps program- 
mers and independent soft- 
ware vendors save time by 
creating and modifying CRT 
(cathode ray tube) screen dis- 
plays. Application programs 
written in a Digital Research 
language can later reference 
these screen displays. For 
CP/M-based systems; floppy 
disk, $400. Digital Research 
Inc. (see address above). 

General Ledger, an assembly- 
language program designed 
for business use. This menu- 
driven program contains six 
reports and a breakdown of 
accounts by departments. For 
CP/M-based systems; floppy 
disk, $99.95. Sunflower Soft- 
ware, 13915 Midland Dr., 



Shawnee, KS 66216. 

ICE80 Utility Library, a col- 
lection of programming tools 
that contains character 
manipulations and scanning, 
text parsing and stringing, 
disk input/output, and other 
functions used when writing 
assembly language. For 
CP/M-based systems; floppy 
disk, $40. Industrial Comput- 
ing Equipment Corp., Suite 
B-3, 100 Timber Oak Court, 
Lynchburg, VA 24502. 

Labelpro, a label-printing 
program that prints up to 100 
labels in a variety of sizes. 
Companies can be selected by 
customer name, city, state, 
zip code, lead source, and 
customer comment. For 
CP/M-based systems; floppy 
disk, $175. Compugreen, 
3095 D South Peoria #275, 
Aurora, CO 80014. 

Leadpro, a customer/pros- 
pect list that can record an 
unlimited number of com- 
ments for each company list- 
ed. Most messages can be an- 
swered with a single key- 
stroke on this menu-driven 
program. For CP/M version 
2.2-based systems; floppy 
disk, $195. Compugreen (see 
address above). 

Questext HI, a general-pur- 
pose system for organizing, 
storing, and communicating 
textual information. You can 
edit from menu prompts 
without learning command 
syntax. For CP/M-based 
systems; floppy disk, 
$299.95. Information Reduc- 
tion Research, 1538 Main St., 
Concord, MA 01742. 

Relocation Utility Package, 

an assembly-language toolkit 
consisting of four programs 
for examining the contents of 
a relocatable module. For 
CP/M-based systems; floppy 
disk, $99.95. Microsmith 
Computer Technology, POB 
1473, Elkhart, IN 46515. 



Versa-flle, a file-management 
system that creates, edits, 
and prints key-accessed files. 
Multiple and customized 
forms can be created for 
printing each file and records 
of files can be sorted before 
printing. For CP/M-based 
systems; floppy disk, $69. 
Analytic Management Sys- 
tems, 247 High St., Palo 
Alto, CA 94301. 

Commodore 

Collision, an arcade-type 
game in which you maneuver 
a growing line on the screen, 
avoiding walls and obstacles 
while making your opponent 
crash. Nine levels of difficul- 
ty; requires a joystick. For 
the Commodore 64; floppy 
disk, $15.95. Topologic, POB 
752, Burlington, IA 52601. 

Deadly Skies, an arcade-type 
game. Equipped with a 
squadron of five helicopters, 
you must destroy an enemy 
military base. Action in- 
creases with each of 32 play 
levels. For the Commodore 
VIC-20, cassette, $39.95. 
Tronix Publishing Inc., 8295 
South La Cienega, Ingle- 
wood, CA 90301. 

Gold Fever. You assume the 
role of a gold miner who 
must gather all the gold in a 
mine shaft while avoiding 
runaway box cars, boulders, 
and claim jumpers. And you 
must do all this before the 
oxygen in the mine runs out. 
For the Commodore VIC-20; 
cassette, $39.95. Tronix 
Publishing Inc. (see address 
above). 

MAS-64 Accounting System, 

an accounting-systems pack- 
age containing three mod- 
ules: General Ledger, Ac- 
counts Payable/Checkwrit- 
ing, and Accounts Receiv- 
able/Billing. For the Commo- 
dore 64; floppy disk, $199 per 
module. Infodesigns Inc., 
6905 Telegraph Rd., Birming- 



506 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



ham, MI 48010. 

Scorpion, a game in which a 
scorpion struggles against 
dragons, frogs, Venus's-fly- 
traps, stalkers, worms, and 
pods. To survive, the scor- 
pion must gather eggs and 
stunned frogs for food. For 
the Commodore VIC -20; cas- 
sette, $39.95. Tronix Publish- 
ing Inc. (see address above). 

Secure, a program that pro- 
duces 256 encryptions of sin- 
gle programs at random and 
is compatible with compos- 
ite, BASIC, and machine 
codes. Use one key to encrypt 
many programs or original 
keys can be created for each 
piece of software. For the 
CBM 4000/8000; floppy disk, 
$100. Distribution Unlimited, 
Department B, POB 81702, 
San Diego, CA 92138. 

IBM 

Personal Computer 

CP/M-86, an operating sys- 
tem that manages information 
stored magnetically on disk 
by grouping it into files of 
programs and data. This pro- 
gram can copy files from a 
disk to memory or to a 
printer. For the IBM Personal 
Computer; floppy disk, $60. 
Digital Research Inc., POB 
579, 160 Central Ave., 
Pacific Grove, CA 93950. 

Concurrent CP/M-86, a sin- 
gle-user, multitasking operat- 
ing system that lets you run 
multiple programs simultan- 
eously by dividing tasks be- 
tween virtual consoles. For 
the IBM Personal Computer; 
floppy disk, $350. Digital 
Research Inc. (see address 
above). 

Cyborg, a science-fiction ad- 
venture game. With half of 
your body transformed into a 
machine, you might as well 
accept the mission you are of- 
fered, rather than endure be- 
ing ostracized by friends and 



family. For the IBM Personal 
Computer; floppy disk, 
$34.95. Sentient Software 
Inc., POB 4929, Aspen, CO 
81612. 

The Executive Package, a 

collection of more than 50 
BASIC and Visicalc spread- 
sheet programs and tables to 
help executives exercise their 
problem-solving capabilities. 
The programs analyze pro- 
ductivity, corporate growth, 
and other aspects of your 
business. For the IBM 
Personal Computer; floppy 
disk, $145. Alpha Software 
Corp., 12 New England Exec- 
utive Park, Burlington, MA 
01803. 



FCpak, an engineering pro- 
gram. This fuel-cell library is 
used to compute the exit con- 
ditions of acid, alkaline, and 
molten carbonate fuel cells. It 
also computes the cell current 
density at the system-design 
point. For the IBM Personal 
Computer; floppy disk, $375. 
Physical Sciences Inc., Re- 
search Park, POB 3100, An- 
dover, MA 01810. 

Graphics Utility, a graphics- 
generator/editor program. 
You can create character sets, 
shapes for animation, and 
games for display on your 
graphics monitor. Characters 
and pictures can be stored on 
disk and printed. For the IBM 
Personal Computer; floppy 
disk, $55. Savant Software 
Inc., POB 440278, Houston, 
TX 77244. 

Lazycoder Screen, an elec- 
tronic-blackboard program. 
Move the cursor to any posi- 
tion and type what you 
want — where you want it. 
Thirty-five built-in functions 
will help you design images 
or data-entry screens. For the 
IBM Personal Computer; 
floppy disk, $125. Nelson 
Data Resources Inc., Suite 
118, 900 South 74th Plaza, 
Omaha, NE 68114. 



Circle 253 on inquiry card. 

"the price war is still on" 
"McNeill opens new front" 
"800 software in retreat" 





800's Price 


Our Price 


Spellbinder 


$259 


$239 


d Base II 


489 


469 


Microsoft Premium Pack 


509 


479 


The Word Plus 


129 


119 


Infostar 


299 


289 


Wordstar 


269 


259 



These are a few examples of our low prices. We carry all 
major software programs. 

10 Free Diskettes on all orders over $600. All orders placed 
in July Ship UPS FREE. We sell computers, subsystems, 
printers, media and accessories. Call for our low price. 

Special Department for Universities. We accept purchase 
orders. All prices are subject to change. (They usually are 
lower!) So call before placing your order. All prices are 
F.O.B. El Toro, CA. 

714-768-8114 McNeill 714-768-8114 

Suite 186 • 25422 TrabucoRd.* 105, El Toro, CA 92630 
In Europe: McNeill, 138 University St., Belfast, Northern 
Ireland BT7 IJH TELEX 74351 



NEW! M-68OOO 
SINGLE BOARD COMPUTER 




FEATURES: 

16 bit Motorola 68000 CPU operating at 5 MHz or 10 MHz. 20K of on 
board fast static RAM. 16K bytes of on board EPROM space, 7 
autovectored interrupts, 3 memory /device expansion buses, 2 serial 
communication ports (RS-232 C). 16 bit bidirectional parallel port. 
5-16 bit counter /timers with vectored interrupt and time of the day 
clock. On board monitor allows to download and debug programs 
generated on APPLE II, TRS-80 and CP/M using our M68000 Cross 
Assembler. 

PRICE: 

M68K Bare board with documentation $ 99.95 

M68MON monitor & mapping PROM's $135.00 

M68000-6CPU $ 95.00 

M68K Parts Kit $249.00 

M68000 Cross Assembler $125.00 

M68K Documentation only $ 15.00 

Shipping & handling (Domestic).. ..$ 3.50 

(foreign).... $ 15.00 

CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS ADD 6% TAX 

¥JL|v|S "«~™P«.r BOX 16115 IRVINE. CA927i:S611S 

•■■#«»▼• ^^ Sy«t«mi (714) .¥>:! 1 1 1 .« 



Circle 154 on inquiry card. 



July 19»3 © BYTE Publications Inc 507 



Circle 373 on inquiry card. 

COMPETITIVE EDGE 

ANNOUNCING OUR EXPANSION 

AND RELOCATION 

SLUDERwill close July 1 and reopen expanded headquarters July 

15, 1983 in the GREAT LAKES AREA under their new name 

COMPETITIVE EDGE. 

We will be offering the same excellent quality service and support 

from the same friendly people you've grown to depend on over the 

last three years. 

PARTICIPATE IN OUR "WELCOME TO THE GREAT LAKES 

EXPANSION CELBRATION." See details in our full page ad in 

August BYTE under COMPETITIVE EDGE. 

For all those placing orders between July 15 and July 31, 1983 we 

have the following special offer: 

Lomas 8mHz 8086 system (2) 8" DSDD & 256K 

at 128K price $2895. 

Teletek Systemaster Z80A, 64K (2) 8" DSDD ($200 off) $2295. 

System with Godbout 85/88, 64K, (2) 8" DSDD Floppys 

($200 off) $2895. 

CompuPRO" 816.C system with free 20 MB Hard Disk $8995. 

10 MB Hard Disk Sub-system for all Z80 systems $1795. 

20 MB Hard Disk Sub-system for all Z80 systems $2295. 

Qume 102 Terminal $525. Televideo 950 $875. 

Lomas LDP72 Disk Cont & CP/M86 $399. Disk 1 CP/M $445. 

Lomas 286 CPU . . . CALL Godbout 286 CPU $1 164. 

Some of our regular low prices: 

Lomas 10 MHZ Lightning $520. CP/M 2.2 Emulator-8086 $50. 

Lomas RAM 67 128K $875. Teletek SBC-1 Slave $650. 

Teletek Systemaster $609. Teletek CP/M 2.2 $165. 

Teletek HD/CTC $596. Godbout RAM 21 $799. 

Godbout RAM 17 64K $359. Godbout CPUZ 6MHZ $238. 

Godbout 8085/8088 A&T $362. Godbout Interfacer 4 $329. 

Godbout CPUZ 68000 $489. Dual 8" floppy disk 

EPSON FX 80 $539. subsystem $1095. 

Seattle CPU 8086 SET $671. Seattle Gazelle $4695. 

Lomas Hazitall $260. 

CompuPro is registered trademark of Godbout Electronics. All 

prices subject to change 

Competitive Edge • P.O. Box 556 • Plymouth MI 48170 • (313) 451-0665 



Continuous 

CHECKS 

for Desk-Top Computers 

for 280 checks printed with 
your name and hank information 

• Statements, invoices, other forms compatible with 
software from over 300 sources. 

• Or program to NEBS standard forms yourself. 

• Quality products in small quantities shipped direct to you. 
Fast service, low prices, money-back guarantee. 

FREE one-stop catalog of computer forms, 
stationery, supplies and accessories. 

Write or phone for your copy Today. I 

TOLL FREE 1 -l- 800-225-9550 . 

(Mass. residents 1 + 800-922-8560) f 

CODE 11005 




Computojrwns „, 



■■^^ffECSSSBS I 



A division of I 

New England | 
Business 

Service, Inc. ■ 



Software Received. 

Memory Shift, a utility 
package that transforms your 
IBM Personal Computer into 
two separate computers, pro- 
viding instant access to multi- 
ple programs. You can shift 
from task to task with 
parallel residency. For the 
IBM Personal Computer; 
floppy disk, $99. North 
American Business Systems 
Inc., Suite 202, 677 Craig 
Rd., St. Louis, MO 63141. 

Optioncalc, a financial /in- 
vestment program. When 
you input current financial 
data, you can calculate the 
theoretical value for call-and- 
put options based on the 
Black and Scholes model, call 
price, and an efficient 
marketplace. For the IBM 
Personal Computer; floppy 
disk, $65. Savant Software 
Inc. (see address above). 

Pdrop, an engineering pro- 
gram designed to calculate 
the pressure drop of fluids in 
circular pipes. The program 
treats liquids as incompress- 
ible fluids, gases as compress- 
ible fluids, and contains built- 
in viscosity and density prop- 
erties for water, steam, and 
air. For the IBM Personal 
Computer; floppy disk, $75. 
Physical Sciences Inc. (see ad- 
dress above). 

Pascal/MT+86, a version of 
the language that supports 
the International Standards 
Organization (ISO) standard 
DPS/7185, including variant 
records, sets, typed and text 
files, passing procedures, and 
functions as parameters. For 
the IBM Personal Computer; 
floppy disk, $400. Digital 
Research Inc. (see address 
above). 

The Permanent Portfolio 
Analyzer, a utility program 
that lets you enter a large 
portfolio of investments and 
analyze them over a ten-year 
period. Choose from level in- 
flation, rising inflation, 
runaway inflation, and more. 



For the IBM Personal Com- 
puter; floppy disk, $295. 
C.R. Hunter & Associates, 
1527 Northwood Dr., Cincin- 
nati, OH 45237. 






Reacpak, an engineering pro- 
gram containing several mod- 
ules used to compute the exit 
conditions from such com- 
bustibles as methanol reform- 
ers, burners, and shift con- 
verters. For the IBM Personal 
Computer; floppy disk, $325. 
Physical Sciences Inc. (see ad- 
dress above). 

Speed Programming Pack- 
age, a set of software tools 
that helps you enter Pascal/ 
MT+86 programs efficiently 
and catch syntax errors be- 
fore sending them to the com- 
piler. For the IBM Personal 
Computer; floppy disk, $200. 
Digital Research Inc. (see ad- 
dress above.) 

The Thinker, an electronic- 
spreadsheet program that is 
straightforward enough for 
the novice to learn to use in 
less than one hour. You 
create tables of text and 
numeric relations that can be 
used for anything from 
household budgets to com- 
plex mathematical or scien- 
tific models. For the IBM Per- 
sonal Computer; floppy disk, 
$75. Texasoft, 3415 Westmin- 
ster, Dallas, TX 75225. 

Versatext, a word-pro- 
cessing/database program. 
Features include full cursor 
control, discretionary for- 
matting, prompting, up- 
dating, editing, and other 
capabilities. For the IBM Per- 
sonal Computer; floppy disk, 
$199.95. Texasoft (see ad- 
dress above). 

Wordflex, a word-process- 
ing/text-editing package. 
User instructions contain 12 
chapters describing its func- 
tions and options. A refer- 
ence section summarizes all 
the commands alphabeti- 



508 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 292 on inquiry card. 



cally. For the IBM Personal 
Computer; floppy disk, $100. 
NEMCO, 9 Walnut St., 
Rutherford, NJ 07070. 



TRS-80 

EDM, an editing program. A 
full-screen, wide-range file 
editor that can be customized 
to an assembly-language edi- 
tor, a high-level language edi- 
tor, or a word-processing sys- 
tem. For the TRS-80 Models I 
and III; floppy disk, $149. 
The Alternate Source, 704 
North Pennsylvania Ave., 
Lansing, MI 48906. 

Enigma, a file-encryption 
program. A combinaton ma- 
chine-language program and 
BASIC driver that will en- 
crypt any disk file so that 
only those with a pass key 
can reconstruct the file. For 
the TRS-80 Models I and III; 
floppy disk, $59.95. Casler 
Computing, 2929 El Paso 
Ave., Simi Valley, CA 93063. 

FORTRAN Utilities, a utility 
program that provides the 
FORTRAN programmer with 
library subroutines and func- 
tions permitting the use of 
cursor addressing for screen 
input and output. Other 
routines include program 
chaining and system-date ac- 
cess. For the TRS-80 Model 
II; floppy disk, $70. David 
Ray CPA, Software Prod- 
ucts, 605 Caravaca Dr., Gar- 
land, TX 75043. 

General Ledger, an account- 
ing package containing pro- 
grams such as password pro- 
tection, direct posting, cash 
journal, transactions by 
month or year to date, bud- 
get files, amortization, and 
more. It can hold up to 700 
accounts. For the TRS-80 
Model II; floppy disk, $600. 
International Software Sales 
Inc., POB 223, Newtonville, 
NY 12128. 



Matrix Subroutines, educa- 
tional and engineering sub- 
routines that extend ROM by 
allowing you to call the stan- 
dard matrix operations from 
BASIC: regular mathematical 
functions, transpose, inverse, 
and more. For the TRS-80 
Models I and III; floppy disk, 
$19.95. PAB Software Inc., 
POB 15397, Fort Wayne, IN 
46885. 

New World, a multiplayer 
educational game (see de- 
scription under Apple). For 
the TRS-80 Models I and III; 
floppy disk, $29.95. Auto- 
mated Simulations/EPYX, 
1043 Kiel Court, Sunnyvale, 
CA 94086. 

RSCOBOL Utilities, a utility 
program that supplies library 
routines to COBOL program- 
mers. It implements useful 
supervisor calls such as file 
copy/rename/delete, CRT- 
Cathode ray tube) and 
printer-control capabilities. 
For the TRS-80 Model II; 
floppy disk, $120. David Ray 
CPA, Software Products (see 
address above). 

Stockline, a technical-analy- 
sis package for the stock- 
market trader. This package 
concentrates on the tedious 
task of analytical charting. 
Your time is saved for read- 
ing and interpreting the 
charts. For the TRS-80 
Models I and HI; floppy disk, 
$149.95. Think Software 
Inc., 572-810 West Broad- 
way, Vancouver, British Co- 
lumbia V5Z 4C9, Canada. 

Wall Street TAP, a communi- 
cations package designed to 
complement stock-market 
analysis programs and 
Stockline. It gathers and 
stores stock-index data ob- 
tained via CompuServe. For 
the TRS-80 Models I and III; 
floppy disk, $59.95. Think 
Software Inc. (see address 
above). 



Texas Instruments 

Chemtutor 1, an educational 
program containing a basic 
chemistry quiz that runs with 
Extended BASIC. It is the 
first in a series of seven pro- 
grams designed to cover a 
year of high school chem- 
istry. For the Texas In- 
struments 99/4A; cassette, 
$10. Data Systems, 2214 
West Iowa, Chicago, IL 
60622. 

Hobbyist Game Pac I. A col- 
lection of 12 inexpensive 
games written in BASIC and 
Extended BASIC, using 
sound, color, and graphics. 
Requires a joystick. For the 
Texas Instruments 99/4A; 
cassette, $9.95. Microworld, 
145 East Norman Dr., 
Palatine, IL 60067. 



Personal Tax Organizer, a 

tool to record detailed, per- 
sonal tax deductions for the 
1040 Schedule A tax form. 
Deductions can be reviewed 
any time. For the Texas In- 
struments 99/4A; cassette, 
$12.98. Design Strategies, 
69-B Bethel Church Rd., 
Jackson, NJ 08527. 



Other Computers 

XFORTH, an implementation 
of the FORTH-79 language 
that uses a simple one-word 
call to return to Sinclair 
BASIC. Requires 16K bytes 
of memory. For the Timex/ 
Sinclair 1000 and ZX81, 
cassette, $25. Hawg Wild 
Software, 7575 Cantrell/21, 
Little Rock, AR 72207. ■ 



This is a list of software packages that have been received by 
BYTE Publications during the past month. The list is correct to the 
best of our knowledge, but it is not meant to be a full description 
of the product or the forms in which the product is available In 
particular, some packages may be sold for several machines or in 
both cassette and floppy-disk format; the product listed here is 
the version received by BYTE Publications. 

This is an all-inclusive list that makes no comment on the quality 
or usefulness of the software listed. We regret that we cannot 
review every software package we receive. Instead, this list is 
meant to be a monthly acknowledgment of these packages and 
the companies that sent them. All software received is considered 
to be on loan to BYTE and is returned to the manufacturer after a 
set period of time. Companies sending software packages should 
be sure to include the list price of the packages and (where appro- 
priate) the alternate forms in which they are available 



BYTE's Bits 



Conference Proceedings Available 



The conference proceed- 
ings from the Second Annual 
Penn State Microcomputer 
Information Exchange Con- 
ference have been made 
available. The papers that 
were presented during the 
conference concentrated on 
educational topics for kinder- 
garten through college levels. 
Topics covered include Logo, 
computer-aided instruction, 



teaching music, managing 
curricula with microcom- 
puters, computer camps, and 
staff development for com- 
puter literacy. 

The proceedings cost $10. 
Contact Dr. Michael J. 
Streibel, Instructional Sys- 
tems Program, 179 Chambers 
Building, The Pennsylvania 
State University, University 
Park, PA 16802. ■ 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 509 



Event Queue 



July 1983 



July 

Continuing Engineering Edu- 
cation Courses, George 
Washington University, 
Washington, DC. Among the 
courses offered are "Micro- 
computers in Control Sys- 
tems Including Interfacing 
Methods," "Reliability of 
Computer Software and 
Computing Networks," and 
"Computer Memory Sys- 
tems." Fees range from $685 
to $855. For details, contact 
Douglas Green, Continuing 
Engineering Education, 
George Washington Univer- 
sity, Washington, DC 20052, 
(800) 424-9773; in the District 
of Columbia, (202) 676-8512. 

July 

Software Workshops in 
MMSFORTH, Boston metro- 
politan area. These work- 
shops are public versions of 
the professional training 
Miller Microcomputer Ser- 
vices (MMS) offers to client 
companies in support of its 
MMSFORTH product line. 
The fee for a one-day, begin- 
ner-level course is $150. Full 
details are available from 
Miller Microcomputer Ser- 
vices, 61 Lake Shore Rd., 
Natick, MA 01760, (617) 
653-6136. 

July 

Technical Courses from 
Zilog, Campbell, CA. A wide 
variety of such courses as 
'The Computer: A Survey," 
"C Programming," and 
"ZEUS/System 8000 User 
Course" are offered. Fees 
range from $525 to $875. For 
a complete schedule, contact 
Zilog Inc., Training and 
Education Department, 1315 
Dell Ave., Campbell, CA 
95008, (408) 370-8092. 

July-August 

Courses in C Language and 
Unix, various sites through- 



out the U.S. Three 5-day 
courses are offered by Plum 
Hall Inc. The "C Program- 
ming Workshop" is a hands- 
on course that covers all 
aspects of the C language for 
individuals able to program 
in another language. The 
"Advanced C Topics Semi- 
nar" covers efficiency, port- 
ability, readability, de- 
bugging, packaging, and in- 
terfacing. The "Unix Work- 
shop" is an introductory 
course that focuses on soft- 
ware development. For fur- 
ther details, contact Joan 
Hall, Plum Hall Inc., 1 
Spruce Ave., Cardiff, NJ 
08232, (609) 927-3770. 

July-August 

Engineering Summer Confer- 
ences, Chrysler Center for 
Continuing Engineering Edu- 
cation, North Campus, Uni- 
versity of Michigan, Ann Ar- 
bor. More than 25 courses are 
offered in aerospace, chemi- 
cal, civil, environmental, 
electrical, fluid, computer, 
information, and control en- 
gineering. One-week course 
fees range from $550 to $775; 
two-week courses are $875. 
For course outlines and regi- 
stration details, contact Engi- 
neering Summer Confer- 
ences, 200 Chrysler Center, 
North Campus, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 
48109, (313) 764-8490. 

July-October 

Courses from the AMA, 

various sites throughout the 
U.S. The American Manage- 
ment Associations (AMA) of- 
fers an on-going series of 
seminars in such areas as 
human resources, informa- 
tion systems, and manufac- 
turing and technology man- 
agement. In-house develop- 
ment and multimedia training 
programs are offered. For in- 
formation on AMA member- 
ship or seminar particulars in 
the Eastern U.S.: AMA, 135 



West 50th St., New York, NY 
10020, (212) 586-8100; in the 
Midwest or South: AMA, 
8655 West Higgins Rd., 
Chicago, IL 60631, (312) 
693-5511; and on the West 
Coast: AMA, 177 Post St. 
#350, San Francisco, CA 
94108, (415) 397-7610. 

July-October 

Repair of Microcomputer- 
based Equipment, various 
sites throughout the U.S. and 
Canada. This lecture/labora- 
tory sequence is intended for 
field-service personnel, 
engineers, and technical 
writers. The seminar de- 
scribes general servicing prac- 
tices that are applied to the 
subsystems of any micropro- 
cessor family. For further in- 
formation, contact the Regis- 
trar, Testek Consultants Inc., 
1000 North Patton St., Ar- 
lington Heights, IL 60004, 
(312) 577-2134. 

July-November 

Courses from Integrated 
Computer Systems, various 
sites throughout the U.S. 
Course titles include "Com- 
puterized Robots," "Software 
Project Management," 
"Hands-On Pascal Work- 
shop," "Defining Software 
Requirements, Specifications, 
and Tests," and "Structured 
Design and Programming." 
Fees range from $695 to $845. 
For information, contact 
Ruth Dordick, Integrated 
Computer Systems, 3304 
Pico Blvd., POB 5339, Santa 
Monica, CA 90405, or call 
(213) 450-2060. 

July-December 

Intensive Two-Day Seminars 
for Professional Develop- 
ment, Worcester Polytechnic 
Institute, Boston metropoli- 
tan area and Hartford and 
Stamford, CT. Among the 
seminars being offered are 
'The Engineer as Manager," 
'Inventory Control: Using 



Computers," and "Funda- 
mentals of Data Processing." 
For in-house seminar infor- 
mation, call Robert J. Hall at 
(617) 793-5574. For a seminar 
bulletin and registration in- 
formation, contact Ginny 
Bazarian, Office of Con- 
tinuing Education, Higgins 
House, Worcester Polytech- 
nic Institute, Worcester, MA 
01609, (617) 793-5517. 

July-December 

Systems Development Docu- 
mentation: Forms Method, 

various sites throughout the 
U.S. and Canada. This one- 
day seminar is designed for 
data-processing managers, 
project leaders, program- 
mers, and technical writers. 
Topics to be covered include 
system design documenta- 
tion, format and style guide- 
lines, and options for end- 
document publication. The 
course fee is $155, which in- 
cludes all materials. In-com- 
pany presentations are avail- 
able for groups of 10 or more. 
For details, contact Technical 
Communications Associates 
Inc., 1250 Oakmead Park- 
way #210, Sunnyvale, CA 
94086, (800) 227-3800, ext. 
977; in California, (800) 
792-0990, ext. 977, or (408) 
737-2665. 



July 10-11 

The Role of Microcomputers 
in Music Education, Triton 
College, River Grove, IL. 
Seminars, workshops, de- 
monstrations, and manufac- 
turer displays will highlight 
this event. Topics of interest 
include ear training, improvi- 
sation, computer basics for 
the teacher, choosing the 
right computer, and using 
computers in music for the 
disabled. The fee is $25 a day; 
$40 for both days. For de- 
tails, contact Michael Ferrelli, 
Triton College, 2000 Fifth 
Ave., River Grove, IL 60171. 



510 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



July 11-13 

The 1983 Summer Computer 
Simulation Conference, 

Hyatt Regency, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada. 
Full details are available from 
the Society for Computer 
Simulation, POB 2228, La 
Jolla, CA 92038, (714) 
459-3888. 



July 11-15 

Technology Opportunity 
Conference, Los Angeles, 
CA. This conference will fo- 
cus on the convergence of 
optical-storage, videodisc, 
and computer technologies. 
For full details, contact Tech- 
nology Opportunity Confer- 
ence, POB 14817, San Fran- 
cisco, CA 94114, (415) 
626-1133. 

July 12-14 

Audio-Visual America, 

Hyatt Regency Hotel, Chica- 
go, IL. The second annual 
Audio -Visual America will 
feature hardware and soft- 
ware exhibits, screenings of 
shows, and approximately 60 
workshops on planning, pro- 
duction, and management. 
For details, contact A-V 
America, IF Associates, 3150 
Spring St., Fairfax, VA 
22031, (703) 273-8272. 

July 13-15 

Personal Computers for 
Managers, San Francisco, 
CA. This seminar is designed 
for both technical and non- 
technical managers involved 
with sales, marketing, pro- 
duction, personnel, or educa- 
tion. Topics to be addressed 
include electronic worksheets 
and spreadsheet reports, se- 
lecting a personal computer, 
and creating management 
graphs and charts. The fee is 
$695, which includes guide 
books and a Timex/ Sinclair 
computer. For information, 
contact Personal Computer 
Management Association, 
11928 North Earlham, 
Orange, CA 92669, (714) 
532-6717. 



July 14-15 

Computer Graphics in De- 
sign, Seattle, WA. This semi- 
nar begins with the historical 
development of computer im- 
ages and an introduction to 
graphics programming. It 
ends with participants using a 
digital-art system to create 
charts, graphs, and free-form 
art. It's sponsored by the 
Dynamic Graphics Educa- 
tional Foundation (DGEF). 
For a catalog and registration 
details, contact DGEF, De- 
partment R, 6000 North 
Forest Park Dr., POB 1901, 
Peoria, IL 61656, (309) 
688-8866, ext. 505. 

July 14-16 

Personal Computer Inter- 
facing and Scientific Instru- 
ment Automation, Charles- 
ton, SC. This workshop pro- 
vides each participant with 
hands-on experience in wir- 
ing and testing interfaces. 
The fee is $395. Call or write 
Dr. Linda Leffel, C.E.C., Vir- 
ginia Polytechnic Institute 
and State University, Blacks- 
burg, VA 24061, (703) 
961-4848. 

July 18-19 

Fundamentals of Data Pro- 
cessing for the Non Data- 
Processing Executive, Chica- 
go, IL. Major topics to be 
covered include computer 
technology, the functions of 
an information system, the 
development of applications 
software, and the costs and 
benefits of information sys- 
tems. This seminar is pre- 
sented by the Wharton 
School of the University of 
Pennsylvania. The fee is 
$795. In-house programs are 
available. For details, con- 
tact Wharton FDP Seminar, 
Registrar-Processing Center, 
30-30 Borden Ave., Long 
Island City, NY 11101, (212) 
392-9441. 

July 18-19 

Productivity '83, Westin Ho- 
tel, Seattle, WA. Hewlett- 
Packard's hands-on showcase 



of more than 32 computer 
products and 17 seminars is 
designed for both profes- 
sionals and novices and aims 
to provide solutions to prob- 
lems confronting the data 
processing industry. For 
details, call (800) 453-9500. 

July 18-28 

Microcomputer-based Instru- 
mentation for Schools, Mid- 
dletown, OH. This workshop 
is designed for science and 
mathematics teachers in both 
secondary and undergraduate 
levels. Participants will learn 
how to construct and use 
simple, low-cost analog-to- 
digital and digital-to-analog 
converters for monitoring 
and controlling physical 
phenomena in classrooms 
and laboratories. Contact Bill 
Rouse, 301E McGuffey Hall, 
Miami University, Oxford, 
OH 45056, (513) 529-2141. 

July 20-21 

Token-based Local Net- 
works, Washington, DC. 
This program is the second of 
four parts in the Architecture 
Technology Corporation's 
1983 Forum Series. The series 
will bring together manufac- 
turers and users of local net- 
work schemes to exchange in- 
formation in an informal set- 
ting. The format includes pre- 
sentations, panel discussions, 
and a technological sum- 
mary. The fee is $395 per per- 
son. For details, contact the 
Architecture Technology 
Corp., POB 24344, Minnea- 
polis, MN 55424, (612) 
935-2035. 

July 21-22 

Shared Information Manage- 
ment Seminar, Hyatt Re- 
gency, Cambridge, MA. This 
seminar is designed for de- 
partment heads, information- 
center managers, senior ap- 
plications personnel, and 
data-processing support co- 
ordinators. It strives to ex- 
plain how to manage the de- 
velopment of new systems 
with reduced risk and how to 



introduce new flexibility into 
data processing. The fee is 
$455. Group discounts are 
available. For further infor- 
mation, contact Bob Mishler, 
Boeing Computer Services 
Co., Education and Training 
Division, POB 24346, Mail 
Stop 9A-90, Seattle, WA 
98124, (800) 342-7700; in 
Washington, call collect, 
(206) 575-7700. 

July 25-27 

The 1983 Conference of the 
International Business 
Schools Computer Users 
Group (IBSCUG), University 
of Waterloo, Ontario, 
Canada. Faculty, staff, and 
practitioners from business 
schools will investigate cur- 
rent developments in hard- 
ware, software, and the ap- 
plications of computers to 
business education. For infor- 
mation, contact Anthony 
Wensley, Accounting Group, 
University of Waterloo, On- 
tario N2L 3G1, Canada, (519) 
885-1211, ext 2755. 

July 25-28 

Softfair, Hyatt Regency, 
Crystal City, Arlington, VA. 
This seminar, sponsored by 
the Institute for Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 
Computer Society, covers 
software development tools, 
techniques, and alternatives. 
For details, contact Softfair, 
POB 639, Silver Spring, MD 
20901, or call (301) 589-8142. 

July 25-28 

The World of CAD/CAM, 

Dunfey's Resort, Hyannis, 
MA. This seminar provides 
an overview of how manu- 
facturing will change as the 
automated factory becomes a 
reality. It will consist of four 
one-day presentations in 
computer-aided engineering, 
design, manufacturing, and 
computer-integrated manu- 
facturing. For a brochure, 
write or call the Center for 
Manufacturing Technology, 
4170 Crossgate Dr., Cincin- 
nati, OH 45236, (513) 
791-8801. 



July 19*3 © BYTE Publications Inc 511 



Event Queue. 



July 25-29 

Robot Manipulators, Com- 
puter Vision, and Automated 
Assembly, Artificial Intelli- 
gence Laboratory, Massachu- 
setts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA. The empha- 
sis of this short course will be 
on developing strategies for 
the solution of problems that 
will arise in advanced auto- 
mation: sensing, spatial rea- 
soning, and manipulation. 
The use of current industrial 
robots and binary vision sys- 
tems will be covered. For de- 
tails, contact the Director of 
the Summer Session, Room 
E19-356, Massachusetts Insti- 
tute of Technology, Cam- 
bridge, MA 02139. 

July 25-29 

SIGGRAPH '83, Detroit, MI. 
This is the tenth annual con- 
ference on computer graphics 
and interactive techniques 
sponsored by the Special- 
Interest Group on Computer 



Graphics of the Association 
for Computing Machinery 
(SIGGRAPH ACM). This 
show features tutorials, films 
and video tapes, exhibits of 
computing equipment, and a 
formal technical program. 
For full details, contact the 
SIGGRAPH '83 Conference 
Office, 111 East Wacker Dr., 
Chicago, IL 60601, (312) 
644-6610. 



July 26-29 

The Third Computer-based 
Music Instruction Workshop, 

University of Illinois, 
Urbana-Champaign. This 
workshop serves as an intro- 
duction to the uses of com- 
puters in music instruction. 
Hardware, software, and 
teaching strategies appropri- 
ate to computer-based music 
instruction will be covered. 
The cost is $100. Contact 
Dale Kimpton, CEPS in 
Music, School of Music, 



University of Illinois, Ur- 
bana, IL 61801. 

July 27-29 

Personal Computers for 
Managers, Boston, MA. For 
details, see July 13-15. 

August 1983 

August-December 

IEEE Conferences and 
Meetings, various sites 
around the world. The Insti- 
tute for Electrical and Elec- 
tronics Engineers (IEEE) 
sponsors conferences, meet- 
ings, and workshops cov- 
ering high-technology issues. 
For details, contact the IEEE 
Computer Society, Suite 300, 
1109 Spring St., Silver 
Spring, MD 20910, (301) 
589-8142. 

August 1-5 

Logon '83, Montana State 
University, Bozeman. "Impli- 



cations, Not Applications" is 
the theme for this conference 
on computer technology, 
mythology, and literacy. 
Subjects to be explored in- 
clude "Women and Tech- 
nology," 'The Sacred Axis: 
Where Mythology Meets 
Technology," "Computers 
and the Disabled," and "The 
Inhuman Dimension of Com- 
puter Technology." For fur- 
ther details, contact Michael 
Sexson, English Department, 
Montana State University, 
Bozeman, MT 59717, (406) 
994-3768. 

August 1-19 

International Program in 
Research and Development 
Management, Battelle Labo- 
ratories, Columbus, OH. 
This program is intended for 
middle-level managers re- 
sponsible for research and 
development activities in in- 
dustry and government. The 
principles and techniques of 



WE'LL BUY YOUR GAMES 

For The Atari @ 2600, Atari® 5200, Intellivision®, 
Colecovision®, and Vectrex ® 

We want non-exclusive rights 
to market your game. 



Syntex Computer Systems, Inc. 

5 Third Street 

Bordentown, New Jersey 08505 

(609) 298-1502 



512 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 123 on inquiry card. 



productive research and de- 
velopment management will 
be emphasized. Topics of in- 
terest include the philospohy 
of management, planning, 
staff development, and eval- 
uating. Contact Dr. William 
Hitt, Battelle's Columbus 
Laboratories, 505 King Ave., 
Columbus, OH 43201, (614) 
424-7176. 

August 2-4 

Microprocessor Background 
for Management Personnel, 

University of California, 
Berkeley. The fee for this 
course is $565. Full details are 
available from Continuing 
Education in Engineering, 
Department 532N, University 
of California Extension, 2223 
Fulton St., Berkeley, CA 
94720, (415) 642-4151. 

August 7-10 

Computers in Chemical 
Education Workshop VI, 

Richmond, KY and Law- 



rence, KS. Short courses and 
informal discussions in topics 
involving computers and 
chemical education for all 
levels of computer expertise 
are being offered with hands- 
on instruction. The fee is 
$115. Discounts are avail- 
able. For details, write to Dr. 
Victor I. Bendall, Depart- 
ment of Chemistry, Moore 
337, Eastern Kentucky Uni- 
versity, Richmond, KY 
40475. 

August 7-10 

The 1983 International Com- 
puters in Engineering Confer- 
ence and Exhibit, Chicago 
Marriott Hotel, Chicago, IL. 
The exhibit portion of this 
event is tailored for the me- 
chanical engineer involved in 
computer applications and 
technology. In the conference 
portion, more than 60 tech- 
nical sessions covering com- 
puter-aided design, engineer- 
ing software and hardware, 



and robotics and automation 
are planned. Contact the 
American Society of Me- 
chanical Engineers, 345 East 
47th St., New York, NY 
10017, (212) 705-7100 for ex- 
hibit information and (212) 
705-7795 for conference in- 
formation. 



August S-12 

Contemporary Data Com- 
munication Networks: Plan- 
ning Analysis and Design, 

Chrysler Center, North Cam- 
pus, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor. This conference 
presents alternative net- 
working strategies for com- 
puter systems that use data 
networks. The fee is $700. 
Contact Continuing Engi- 
neering Education, College of 
Engineering, 300 Chrysler 
Center, North Campus, Uni- 
versity of Michigan, Ann Ar- 
bor, MI 48109, (313) 
764-8490. 



August 8-12 

The Eighth International 
Joint Conference on Artificial 
Intelligence-IJCAI-83, Karls- 
ruhe, West Germany. This 
conference seeks to promote 
scientific interchange within 
and among all subfields of ar- 
tificial intelligence research. 
Papers will address such 
topics as automatic program- 
ming, expert systems, knowl- 
edge representation, planning 
and search, and system sup- 
port. Contact Saul Amarel, 
Computer Science Depart- 
ment, Hill Center, Busch 
Campus, Rutgers University, 
New Brunswick, NJ 08903, 
(201) 932-3546. In West Ger- 
many, contact Joerg Siek- 
mann, Institut fuer Infor- 
matik, Universitaet Karls- 
ruhe, Postfach 6380, D-7500 
Karlsruhe 1, West Germany; 
tel: (49-721) 608-3977. 



August 9-13 

Individualized 



Language 



Muyam» industries, inc. 



In Texas Orders 

Questions & Answers 

1-713-392-0747 



2251 1 Katy Freeway 
Katy (Houston) Texas 77450 



To Order 
1-800-231-3680 
800-231-3681 



SAVE BIG DOLLARS ON ALL TRS-80 HARDWARE & SOFTWARE 

TRS-80® BY RADIO SHACK. Brand new in cartons delivered. Save state sales tax. Texas residents add only 5% sales tax. 
OpenMon.-Fri. 9-6, Sat. 9-1. We pay freight and insurance. Come by and see us. Call us for a reference in or near your city. 
Ref: Farmers State Bank, Brookshire, Texas. 



WE OFFER ON 
REQUEST 

Federal Express (Overnight Delivery) 

Houston Intercontinental 

Airport Delivery (Seme Dey) 

U.P.S. BLUE (Every Dey) 

References from people who have 
bought computers from us probably in 
your city. We have thousands of 
satisfied customers. WE WILL NOT BE 
UNDERSOLD! 




Mo Tax on Out of Texas Shipments! 














10% 15% 

OR MORE 



ED McMANUS 



Telex 77-4132 (FleksHou) 

See us in the Wall Street Journal every Tues., Wed., and Thurs. 

• IBS 80 is a Registoed Tndenwk 111 Tandy Corp 



WE ALWAYS 
OFFER 

We eccept Master Card, VISA, 
and American Express. 

We use Direct Freight Lines. No 
long waits. 

We always pay the freight end 
insursnce 

Toll free order number 

Our capability to go to the gient 
TRS-BO"' Computer warehouse 5 
hours ewey, in Ft. Worth, Texes, 
to keep you in stock. 

JOE McMANUS 

VISA 



Circle 250 on inquiry card. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications lnc 513 



Event Queue 



Teaching through Microcom- 
puter-assisted Instruction, 

Boston, MA. This seminar 
will provide hands-on exper- 
ience and will cover the theo- 
retical background and uses 
of microcomputer-assisted 
language instruction. Contact 
Ms. Anita Mires, American 
Language Academy, Suite 
200, 11426 Rockville Pike, 
Rockville, MD 20852, (301) 
984-3400. 

August 10-12 

Microcomputers and High 
Technology in Vocational 
Education Conference, Con- 
course Hotel, Madison, WI. 
Beginning and advanced 
classes on microcomputers, 
presentations on vocational 
education programs, and 
software exhibits will be fea- 
tured. For details, contact 
Judy Rodenstein or Roger 
Lambert, Vocational Studies 
Center, 964 Educational Sci- 
ences Building, University of 



Wisconsin, 1025 West John- 
son St., Madison, WI 53706, 
(608) 263-4367 or 263-2704. 

August 11-13 

Personal Computer Inter- 
facing and Scientific Instru- 
ment Automation, Williams- 
burg, VA. For details, see 
July 14-16. 

August 16-19 

Landsat: Sensor Design & 
Operation, University of 
California, Santa Barbara. 
This course is intended for 
users of remote-sensor data, 
including geographers, geo- 
logists, and engineers. It 
covers such topics as sensor 
requirements and user needs, 
sensor-design principles and 
tradeoffs, and multispectral- 
scanner and thematic-mapper 
operation. It's cosponsored 
by the Santa Barbara Re- 
search Center and the Na- 
tional Oceanic and Atmo- 
spheric Administration. The 



fee is $450. For a brochure, 
contact J. Weisman, Univer- 
sity of California Extension, 
Santa Barbara, CA 93106, 
(805) 961-3697. 

August 18-19 

Computer Literacy for Law- 
yers, Denver, CO. This semi- 
nar is intended to introduce 
attorneys to basic computer 
concepts and their applica- 
tion to the practice of law. 
Topics will include the speci- 
fic uses, costs, and benefits of 
using computers in legal prac- 
tice. The fee is $550, which 
includes reference materials. 
Group discounts are avail- 
able. For further information, 
contact Kathryn Mann, Cen- 
ter for Legal Studies, 1926 
Arch St., Philadelphia, PA 
19103, (215) 732-6999. 

August 21-26 

The Fourth World Congress 
on Medical Informatics 
MEDINFO 83, RAI Interna- 



tional Congress and Exhibi- 
tion Centre, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. This event com- 
bines scientific, technical, 
and social programs. Ap- 
proximately 300 scientific 
papers will be presented on 
health and hospital systems, 
clinical laboratory systems, 
imaging, nursing applica- 
tions, and preventive and oc- 
cupational care. Demonstra- 
tions, product exhibits, film 
and video sessions, tours, 
workshops, and special-inter- 
est meetings will be held. The 
language throughout the con- 
ference will be English. Fur- 
ther details are available from 
the MEDINFO 83 Congress 
Office, Enschedepad 41-43, 
NL-1324 GB Almere-Stad, 
The Netherlands. 

August 22-26 

The National Conference on 
Artificial Intelligence 
AAAI-83, Washington Hil- 
ton Hotel, Washington, DC. 




Compufldcl 



Corp. 



ORDER TOLL FREE: 

(800) 531-5475 (If Outside 0I Texas) 

(512) 250-1523 (In Texas) 

13010 Research Blvd. Suite 101/Auitin, TX 78750 



514 July 1903 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 86 on inquiry card. 



This conference is sponsored 
by the American Association 
for Artificial Intelligence 
(AAAI). Displays of compu- 
ter hardware and software, 
formal presentations, and the 
Fredkin Chess Prize Competi- 
tion highlight this conference. 
Contact Claudia Mazzetti, 
AAAI, 445 Burgess Dr., 
Menlo Park, CA 94025, (415) 
328-3123. 

August 23-24 

Indycon '83, Convention 
Center, Indianapolis, IN. 
This conference and exhibi- 
tion features more than 35 
technical sessions and 300 ex- 
hibition booths devoted to 
microcomputers and elec- 
tronic components. Contact 
Indycon '83, POB 40312, In- 
dianapolis, IN 46260, (317) 
875-7711. 

August 25-26 

Fundamentals of Data Pro- 
cessing for the Non-Data- 
Processing Executive, Wash- 
ington, DC. For details, see 
July 18-19. 

August 26-28 

The First IBM PC Faire, Civic 
Auditorium and Brooks Hall, 
San Francisco, CA. The focus 
of this fair will be on hard- 
ware, software, and applica- 
tions for the IBM Personal 
Computer. Technical confer- 
ences, formal papers, product 
expositions, and special-in- 
terest group meetings will be 
held. For details, contact IBM 
PC Faire, 345 Swett Rd., 
Woodside, CA 94062, (415) 
851-7077. 

August 26-September 3 

The International Telecom- 
munications, Scientific, and 
Technical Expoconference- 
Telexpo China 1983, Foreign 
Trade Center, Guangzhou 
(Canton), Jiangxi Province, 
People's Republic of China. 
The theme of this show of 
communications equipment 
is "An Integrated Telecom- 
munications System for 
China." Displays will include 



aerospace equipment, com- 
puters, and peripherals. Ad- 
ditional information is avail- 
able from AVP Expositions 
Co. Ltd., Suite 13, 13/F, 
Block A, Wahkai Industrial 
Center, 221 Texaco Rd., NT 
Hong Kong; tel: 0-239003; 
Telex: 40725 AVPEX HX. 

August 29-31 

DBMS-M 4 Systems, Wash- 
ington, DC. For details, con- 
tact the Continuing Educa- 
tion Institute, Oliver's Car- 
riage House, 5410 Leaf 
Treader Way, Columbia, 
MD 21044, (301) 596-0111; 
on the West Coast, (213) 
824-9545. 

September 1983 



September-November 

Computer Showcase Expos, 

various sites throughout the 
U.S. This popular show will 
bring together sellers and in- 
dividual users of small com- 
puter systems. For details, 
contact The Interface Group, 
160 Speen St., POB 927, 
Framingham, MA 01701, 
(800) 225-4620; in Massachu- 
setts, (617) 879-4502. 

September-December 

Software Workshops in 
MMSFORTH, Boston metro- 
politan area. These work- 
shops are public versions of 
the professional training 
Miller Microcomputer Ser- 
vices (MMS) offers to client 
companies in support of the 
MMSFORTH product line. A 
variety of topics and skill 
levels are covered. Full details 
are available from Miller 
Microcomputer Services, 61 
Lake Shore Rd., Natick, MA 
01760, (617) 653-6136. 

September-January 1984 

Technology Opportunity 
Conference, various sites 
throughout the U.S. This 
conference series focuses on 
the convergence of optical- 
storage, videodisc, and com- 
puter technologies. For full 



McGraw-Hill 
Bookstore 

Information Is Our Specialty 




Computer 

Books 

Published 

by 

McGraw-Hil 



Featuring the 
Computer Handbook for Experts or Novices 

1. The McGraw-Hill Computer Handbook Harry L. 
Helms, ed. Here's the all-inclusive handbook that an- 
swers any question that may arise for the beginner or 
experienced user. Covers computer structures, number 
systems and codes, logic networks, memory unit and 
much, much more. Special sections on each of the 
languages, plus valuable state-of-the-art topics. 
Clearly written, extensively illustrated. 1200 pp. $79.50 

2. Word Processing Buyer's Guide by Arthur Naiman. 
Notes and checklists on word processing programs, 
checklists for microcomputers and software, terms, 
conversion tables. 325 pp. $15.95 

3. The C Primer by Hancock and Krieger. Learn the 
quick-running systems language with step-by-step 
simple example programs; for the beginner in C. 
235 pp. $14.95 

4. Introducing the UNIX System by McGilton and 

Morgan. Detailed coverage — getting started in UNIX, 
shell programming, ex-text editor, vi display editor, text 
manipulation etc. 450 pp. $18.95 

Please print clearly. 



McGraw-Hill Bookstore 

1221 Ave. of the Americas, N.Y, N.Y 10020 
Send me (circle) book #12 3 4 

No. copies 

Check, money order or credit card only 
Visa Amer Exp Master Chg._ 




B73 



Acct. No.. 
Name 



-Expires- 



Address 

City oiaic <-ifj 

Add applicable sales tax, plus $2.50 each postage and handling for the first 
book, $1 .00 for each additional book. 



_State_ 



.Zip- 



Circle 485 on inquiry card. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 515 



Event Queue 



details, contact Technology 
Opportunity Conference, 
POB 14817, San Francisco, 
CA 94114, (415) 626-1133. 

September 1-2 

The First Meeting of the 
European Chapter of the As- 
sociation for Computational 
Linguistics, University of 
Pisa, Italy. A variety of for- 
mal papers will address such 
topics as syntax, parsing, and 
language generation; speech 
analysis and synthesis; and 
software tools and program- 
ming languages for computa- 
tional linguistics. Contact 
Harold Somers, Centre for 
Computational Linguistics, 
UMIST, POB 88, Manchester 
M60 1QD, England. 

September 6-10 

Asian International Electri- 
cals, Electronics, and Com- 
munications Exhibition 
'83-Elecom Asia '83, Stadium 
Negara, Kuala Lumpur, Ma- 
laysia. This trade show serves 
as a showcase for a wide 
spectrum of high-technology 
equipment and materials. 
Government ministers from 
the five ASEAN (Association 
of Southeast Asian Nations) 
countries (Indonesia, Malay- 
sia, Philippines, Singapore, 
and Thailand) will attend. 
For details, contact Technol- 
ogy Marketing Analysis 
Corp., Suite 428, 680 Beach 
St., San Francisco, CA 
94109, (415) 474-3000. In Ma- 
laysia, contact ISE Manage- 
ment (M) SDN BHD, 3-A 
Jalan SS 24/8, Taman Me- 
gah, Petaling Jaya, Selangor, 
Malaysia; tel: 749377; Telex: 
MA 37204 AKMISE. 

September 8-10 

Personal Computer Interfac- 
ing and Scientific Instrument 
Automation, Greensboro, 
NC. For details, see July 
14-16. 



September 13-15 

AUTOFACT EUROPE Con- 
ference and Exhibition, 



Palexpo Exhibition Center, 
Geneva, Switzerland. This 
conference, cosponsored by 
the Society of Manufacturing 
Engineers (SME) and the In- 
stitution of Production Engi- 
neers of London, England, 
will focus on the technologies 
of automated and computer- 
integrated manufacturing for 
European production. Tech- 
nical sessions will discuss 
both theory and applications 
strategies. A complementary 
products display will be fea- 
tured. Contact the Society of 
Manufacturing Engineers, 
Public Relations Department, 
One SME Dr., POB 930, 
Dearborn, MI 48121, (313) 
271-0777. 



September 13-15 

Midcon/83 & Mini/Micro- 
Midwest/83, Chicago, IL. 
Topics on the professional 
program include computer 
simulation, energy manage- 
ment, laser applications, and 
printed-circuit-board tech- 
nology. An exhibit area is 
planned. For further informa- 
tion, contact Electronic Con- 
ventions Inc., 8110 Airport 
Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 
90045, (213) 772-2965. 



September 13-15 

Peripherals '83, Moscone 
Center, San Francisco, CA. 
Full details are available from 
Cahners Exposition Group, 
Cahners Plaza, 1350 East 
Touhy Ave., POB 5060, Des 
Plaines, IL 60018, (312) 
299-9311. 



September 14-16 

Euromicro '83, Madrid, 
Spain. This ninth annual 
symposium will cover micro- 
processing and program- 
ming. Speeches will address 
economic and social aspects 
of microprocessors and 
trends in VLSI (very large- 
scale integration) technology. 
Tutorials, seminars, and an 



exhibition are planned. The 
highlight of this event is the 
Euromouse contest, in which 
mechanical mice from around 
the world race around a 
maze. A complete program is 
available from Euromicro, 
TH Twente, POB 217, De- 
partment INF, Room A312, 
7500 AE Enschede, The 
Netherlands; tel: (31) (53) 
338799; Telex: 44200 Thes. 



September 15-16 

Ethernet-type Local Net- 
works, San Francisco, CA. 
This is the third program in 
the four-part Architecture 
Technology Corporation 
1983 Forum Series. The series 
will bring together manufac- 
turers and users of local net- 
work schemes to exchange in- 
formation in an informal set- 
ting. The format includes pre- 
sentations, panel discussions, 
and a technological sum- 
mary. The fee is $395. For 
further information, contact 
the Architecture Technology 
Corp., POB 24344, Minnea- 
polis, MN 55424, (612) 
935-2035. 



September 15-16 

The Second Annual Indiana 
Computer Expo, Convention 
Center, Indianapolis, IN. 
This exposition is designed 
for business end users inter- 
ested in mini- and microcom- 
puters, software, word pro- 
cessing, graphics, services, 
and peripherals. Contact 
Ernie Kerns & Associates, 
Trade Show Department, 
Suite 201, 2555 East 55th 
Place, Indianapolis, IN 
46220, (317) 259-8111. 

September 16-18 

The First Annual Heart of 
Texas Computer Show, Con- 
vention Center, San An- 
tonio, TX. This show will 
emphasize small-business sys- 
tems for financial and inven- 
tory control, agri-business, 
education, and personal 
needs. More than 200 hard- 



ware, software, and peri- 
pheral vendors will display 
their wares. Show details are 
available from Robin G. 
Mann, Heart of Texas, POB 
12094, San Antonio, TX 
78212, (512) 226-4636. 



September 19-23 

The Ninth World Computer 
Congress - IFIP '83, Paris, 
France. This event, spon- 
sored by the International 
Federation for Information 
Processing (IFIP), is held in 
conjunction with SICOB, the 
major French computer expo- 
sition. Formal papers and 
panel sessions will cover such 
areas as computer hardware 
and software, theoretical 
foundations of information 
processing, networks, and 
communications. For full 
program details, contact the 
U.S. Committee for IFIP '83, 
Dorn Computer Consultants, 
25 East 86th St., New York, 
NY 10028, (212) 427-7460. 

September 20-21 

Data Storage 83, Marriott 
Hotel, Santa Clara, CA. This 
international forum covers 
industry issues and areas of 
change in data-storage equip- 
ment and applications. The 
fee is $850. Contact Cartlidge 
& Associates Inc., Suite 205, 
4030 Moorpark Ave., San 
Jose, CA 95117, (408) 
554-6644. 

■ 

September 21-22 

Business -Expo, Boston, MA. 
This show serves as a show- 
case for office equipment 
ranging from computers to 
coffee machines. More than 
20 seminars are presented. 
Address inquiries to Busi- 
ness-Expo, 702 East North- 
land Towers, 15565 North- 
land Dr., Southfield, MI 
48075, (313) 569-8280. 

September 26-28 

Maecon/83, Kansas City, 
MO. This electronic show 
and convention explores such 



516 July 1M3 © BYTE Publications Inc 



topics as aerospace electron- 
ics, computer peripherals, 
laser technology, and per- 
sonal computing. Contact 
Electronic Conventions Inc., 
8110 Airport Blvd., Los 
Angeles, CA 90045, (213) 
772-2965. 



September 26-29 

The World of CAD/CAM, 

Boca Raton Resort Hotel, FL. 
For details, see July 25-28. 

September 26-30 

Compcon Fall '83, Marriott 
Crystal Gateway Hotel, Ar- 
lington, VA. The theme of 
this show is "Delivering 
Computer Power to End 
Users." It features technical 
papers and panel sessions 
that address a variety of com- 
puter and computer-network 
issues. It is sponsored by the 
Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 
Computer Society. For more 



information, contact Comp- 
con Fall '83, POB 639, Silver 
Spring, MD 20901, (301) 
589-8142. 

September 26-30 

Conference on Networks and 
Electronic Office Systems, 
University of Reading, Berk- 
shire, England. This con- 
ference will provide a forum 
for the exchange of informa- 
tion and for discussion of re- 
cent and future developments 
relating to networks and elec- 
tronic office systems. Further 
information is available from 
the Conference Secretariat, 
Institution of Electronic and 
Radio Engineers, 99 Gower 
St., London WClE 6AZ, 
England; tel: 01-388 3071; 
Telex: Instrad London WCl. 

September 26-30 

Expo Beirut '83, Beirut, 
Lebanon. This is Lebanon's 
first international reconstruc- 



tion/development exposition 
and conference after eight 
years of civil war. Topics to 
be covered include contruc- 
tion, transportation, commu- 
nications, agriculture, com- 
puter hardware and software, 
metallurgy, textiles, and 
automated equipment. Fur- 
ther details are available from 
Show-Tech International 
Inc., 950 Third Ave., New 
York, NY 10022. 

September 28-29 

Ottawa Computer and Office 
Automation Show, Civic 



Centre, Ottawa, Ontario, 
Canada. For details, contact 
Industrial Trade Shows of 
Canada, 20 Butterick Rd., 
Toronto, Ontario M8W 3Z8, 
Canada, (416) 252-7791. 

September 29-October 1 

CP/M '83 East, Hynes Audi- 
torium, Boston, MA. For in- 
formation on this conference 
and exposition, contact 
Northeast Expositions Inc., 
826 Boylston St., Chestnut 
Hill, MA 02167, (800) 
343-2222; in Massachusetts, 
(617) 739-2000. ■ 



In order to gain optimal coverage of your organization's com- 
puter conferences, seminars, workshops, courses, etc, notice 
should reach our office at least three months in advance of the 
date of the event. Entries should be sent to: Event Queue, BYTE 
Publications, POB 372, Hancock NH 03449. Each month we 
publish the current contents of the queue for the month of the 
cover date and the two following calendar months. Thus a given 
event may appear as many as three times in this section if it is sent 
to us far enough in advance. 



* 



LASER 



TM 




micro systems inc. 



Administrative Offices 
1321 N.W. 17th 
PORTLAND, OR 97209 
Tele* 360270 
Cable: WILL EXPT PIL 

Sales Office 
1885 W. Commonwealth 
SuHeS 
FUUE8TON, CALIF 92623 

714-625-7474 



• Teac ® drive 55A mechanics 

• Brushless direct drive step motor 

• Assembled and Tested in U.SA 



APPLE 8 PERIPHERALS 

Disc Drive • Teac® Bare 55A 

Interface Card Drives 

• lOMB Slimline 



Printer 
Interface Card 

16K Ram Card 



Hard Disc Drive 

• Teac® 55B Drive 
For IBM P.C, 



. DISTRIBUTOR INQUIRIES WELCOME - 



P^l 




5/4 "SUM LINE 

APPLE® COMPATIBLE 



Circle 233 on inquiry card. 



luly 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 517 



What's New? 



VIDEOTEX SUPPORT 




«w«wr ^^ 

STARTUP BKLOSB3 



New Marketing Strategy 
for The Source 



A new marketing strategy 
called Sourcepak now 
makes subscriptions to The 
Source available through de- 
partment stores and more 
than 1600 computer re- 
tailers. 

Here is how it works: pur- 
chase the Sourcepak at a lo- 
cal store or computer retailer; 
then, from your home or of- 
fice, call the toll-free number 
provided in the package. An 
identification number, a 
password, and a local tele- 
phone number to reach The 
Source are provided. Return 
a signed subscriber agree- 
ment within 10 days and, 
upon receipt. The Source 
ships your user manual. The 
Source provides more than 
800 services to its cus- 
tomers, including electronic 
mail, the UPI news wire, 
financial news, games, and 
computer conferencing. 

Retailers interested in sell- 
ing the Sourcepak can re- 
ceive a free dealer sales kit by 
writing to Source Telecom- 
puting Corp., Communica- 
tions Marketing Depart- 



ment, 1616 Anderson Rd., 
McLean, VA 22102. 
Circle 550 on inquiry card. 



Today for Videotex 

Today magazine is for 
people and businesses in 
the personal computer and 
videotex industries. It ex- 
amines how personal com- 
puters can be used to in- 
crease productivity, manage 
financial resources, commu- 
nicate information, and 
educate. It provides news on 
the latest developments in 
videotex services and hard- 
ware, software, and com- 
munications technology. To- 
day also probes the social 
and political issues of the in- 
dustry. 

Individual copies of Today 
magazine cost S2.50. It's 
published by CompuServe 
Inc., 5000 Arlington Centre 
Blvd., Columbus, OH 
43220, (800) 848- 8199; in 
Ohio, (614)457-8650. 
Circle 551 on inquiry card. 



Daily News Hotline 

The Information In- 
telligence Online Hotline is 
a daily news service for on- 
line readers in the informa- 
tion-retrieval field. Each issue 
is said to contain up-to-the- 
minute news concerning 
suppliers, vendors, pro- 
ducers, new and forthcom- 
ing databases, terminals, 
computers, modems, video- 
discs, library and informa- 
tion networks, publications, 
and trends in the online 
field. 

The Online Hotline can 
be accessed by 300- or 
1200-bit-per-second Bell 
103/212A-compatible ter- 
minals over ordinary tele- 
phone lines and many re- 
duced-rate services. It's com- 
patible with most terminals 
and microcomputers. X/On 
and X/Off protocol is sup- 
ported. Subscriptions to the 
Hotline cost $100 per year, 
which includes unlimited 
access; there are no con- 
nect-time charges. For com- 
plete details, contact Infor- 
mation Intelligence Inc., 
POB 31098, Phoenix, AZ 
85046, (602) 996-2283. 
Circle 552 on inquiry card. 



Trade Newspaper for 
Videotex Industry 

Videotex Products is a 
quarterly newspaper for the 
videotex/teletext industry. 
This tabloid covers all items 
being developed for and 
sold on the worldwide 
videotex market. Its pub- 
lisher, Worldwide Video- 
tex, also produces the 
monthly Worldwide 
Videotex Update, avail- 



able as an electronic edi- 
tion on the Newsnet ser- 
vice. 

For a free sample issue of 
the newspaper, write to 
Videotex Products, POB 
138, Babson Park, Boston, 
MA 02157. 
Circle 553 on inquiry card. 



Delphi Accessible 
to Whole Family 

General Videotex Cor- 
poration has introduced a 
national videotex system 
called Delphi. Delphi pro- 
vides services and features 
for the entire family, includ- 
ing an online encyclopedia 
with up-to-the-minute en- 
tries; electronic banking and 
bill paying; searchable 
news, sports, and weather 
updates; shopping and 
travel information; games; 
online bulletin-board sys- 
tems; and interactive com- 
munity programs that allow 
users to converse. The 
Dialog Information Service 
database is also available 
through Delphi. 

The Delphi videotex sys- 
tem is compatible with 
home computers that can 
be connected to telephone 
lines. Subscribers access in- 
formation by means of sim- 
ple steps rather than menus. 
Delphi adjusts its output to 
fit varying screen formats. 

Future services will in- 
clude a package designed 
for those with special needs, 
an expanded library of re- 
source materials and educa- 
tional tutorials, financial in- 
formation, and an online in- 
teractive auction. A sub- 
scription to Delphi costs 



518 July 19S3 © BYTE Publication Inc 



What's New? 



S49.95. User-time fees are 
S0.85 for ten minutes (i.e., 
$5 per hour). Business rates 
are $20 per hour (8 a.m. to 6 
p.m.). Complete details are 



available from General 
Videotex Corp., 377 Put- 
nam Ave., Cambridge, MA 
02139, (617) 491-3393. 
Circle 554 on inquiry card. 




RS-232C Telecomputing System 



IXO Inc. has unveiled an 
RS-232C version of its hand- 
held telecommunications 
terminal, designed for lo- 
cal-network applications. 
The Model TC 103 is said to 
be suitable for hard-wire in- 
stallation in a fixed location 
or for portable use where it 
can be connected directly to 
a computer system. Possible 
applications include field ser- 
vice and local access to elec- 
tronic message systems 
within an office. 

The TC 103 has a 
QWERTY-style keyboard 
with control and shift func- 
tions that generate the full 
128-character set of ASCII 
codes. English-language 
dialogue keys that facilitate 
the development of com- 
puter-initiated dialogue soft- 



ware for operator training 
are provided. The TC 103 
features a 16-characterLCD 
(liquid-crystal display) that 
has such display-manage- 
ment functions as variable 
scroll rates ranging from 2 to 
30 characters per second, 
automatic sound effects on 
grammatical constructions, 
and a repeat key that allows 
you to review the last 80 
characters received. 

In single units, the TC 103 
costs S450. OEM (original 
equipment manufacturer) 
pricing as low as S250 per 
terminal is available. Cor- 
porate headquarters for 
IXO Inc. are located at 6041 
Bristol Parkway, Culver City, 
CA 90230, (213) 417-8080. 
Circle 555 on inquiry card. 



PERIPHERALS 



Terminal Has 12 Programmable Keys 



Visual Technology has 
extended the performance 



of its Visual 50 terminal with 
the introduction of the Vi- 



sual 55. Among the en- 
hancements built into this 
tilt-and-swivel terminal are 
12 user-programmable non- 
volatile function keys that 
can be dynamically allo- 
cated, extended editing 
with character insertion and 
deletion, selectable scrolling 
regions, and Visual 210 and 
Hazeltine 1510 emulation 
capabilities. Standard fea- 
tures include five attribute 
selections, a line-drawing 
character set, block mode, 
editing, a bidirectional aux- 
iliary port, a 128-member 
uppercase and lowercase 
character set, columnar tab- 
bing, and smooth orjump 
scrolling. 
The nonglare screen's dis- 



play format is 80 characters 
by 24 lines using a 7 by 9 
dot-matrix grid, with a 25th 
status line. Menu-driven set- 
up modes in nonvolatile 
memory are provided for 
easy selection of terminal 
parameters. The Visual 55 is 
code-for-code compatible 
with Hazeltine Espirit, Adds 
Viewpoint, Lear Siegler 
ADM 3A, and Digital Equip- 
ment Corporation VT-52. 

The Visual 55 costs S 895. 
Quantity discounts are avail- 
able. For complete details, 
contact Visual Technology 
Inc., 540 Main St., Tewks- 
bury, MA 01876, (617) 
851-5000. 
Circle 556 on inquiry card. 




Energy Management 
Over Power Lines 



Bi-Comm Systems' PC-1 
combined with an Apple 
creates an efficient ener- 
gy-management system. 
The PC-1 plugs directly into 
an Apple I/O slot and a stan- 
dard wall socket. It commu- 
nicates directly over power 
lines to operate as many as 
256 Leviton/BSR remote- 
control units. With this ar- 
rangement, the Apple can 
control climate systems, ap- 
pliances, lights, and other 
electrical devices for maxi- 
mum energy efficiency. The 



7- by 3-inch PC-1 is made up 
of a bidirectional carrier in- 
terface, a CMOS (comple- 
mentary metal-oxide semi- 
conductor) clock/calendar 
with battery backup, and a 
switch-selectable clock in- 
terrupt with rates of I hour, 
1 minute, 1 second, and 
1024 Hz. The battery back- 
up offers 2 months of life and 
a full recharge capability in 
16 hours. 

The PC-1 comes with a 
demonstration disk that pro- 
vides time scheduling, com- 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 519 



What's New? 



mand console simulation, 
and utilities for initial power- 
up. A line-monitor program 
to detect power-line interfer- 
ence is provided. The PC-1 
costs S265. Quantity dis- 



counts are available. Con- 
tact Bi-Comm Systems Inc., 
10 Yorkton Industrial Court, 
St. Paul, MN 55117, (612) 
481-0775. 
Circle 557 on inquiry card. 




Accessories for IBM 



Compu-Quote offers a 
line of accessories for the 
IBM Personal Computer. 
Qwik-Key is a plastic overlay 
card that fits around the 
function keys so that you 
can mark each key's usage 
for a given program. A pack 
of three is available for 
S4.25. Quik-Guide consists 
of a pair of reference cards 
that contain all DOS com- 
mands. A set of two costs 
S3. 25. Qwik-Label is a set of 
18 self-adhesive labels that 



help you identify plug-in 
cards, knobs, and connec- 
tors on the front and rear 
panels of the IBM. Blanks for 
custom labels are included. 
A complete set costs SI. 

Each item can be pur- 
chased separately or as part 
of a complete kit, which is 
S7.75. Contact Compu- 
Quote, 6914 Berquist Ave., 
Canoga Park, CA 91307, 
(213) 348-3662. 
Circle 558 on inquiry card. 



Processor Board 
with Diagnostics 



The Z80 Smart Card, mar- 
keted by Forethought Prod- 
ucts, is a combination pro- 
cessor and diagnostics unit 
for STD bus-based systems. 
This card has a 4-MHz Z80A 
processor with an onboard 
serial port, 2K bytes of RAM 
(random-access read/write 
memory), and diagnostic 



firmware. When connected 
to a standard RS-232C ter- 
minal, this card can test any 
board or I/O device in the 
STD system with its built-in 
diagnostic functions. Addi- 
tional commands such as 
Display/Alter memory and 
Read/ Write to an I/O device 
provide easy system de- 



bugging features. The Smart 
Card is equipped with a 
switch that lets it function as 
a standard Z80 processor 
card and performs a power- 
onjump to user PROM (pro- 
grammable read-only mem- 
ory). For easy system 
troubleshooting, you can in- 
stantly switch between Z80 



and diagnostic modes. 

The Z80 Smart Card costs 
S 245 (quantity two to nine) . 
Full specifications are avail- 
able from Forethought Prod- 
ucts, 87070 Dukhobar Rd., 
Eugene, OR 97402, (503) 
485-8575. 
Circle 559 on inquiry card. 



Speech Module 
for Sinclairs 



The Parrot from Research 
In Speech Technology Inc. is 
a plug-in speech-synthesis 
module for Timex/Sinclair 
computers. Capable of gen- 
erating the 64 discrete 
sounds (allophones) of 
spoken English, the Parrot 
comes with cassette-based 
software that lets you com- 
bine allophones so thatyou 
can string together words, 
phrases, sentences, and 
sound effects. You can also 
use your own programs to 
tell the Parrot what to say. It 
plugs directly into the 



ZX80/8I and the Timex/Sin- 
clair 1000 and is piggyback 
expandable so that other 
modules can be attached to 
the computer. An audio out- 
put jack for either a 4- or 
8-ohm speaker and a 
volume control are pro- 
vided. 

The Parrot costs S89.95. 
It's available factory-direct 
from Research In Speech 
Technology Inc., POB 499, 
Fort Hamilton Station, 
Brooklyn, NY 11209, (212) 
259-4934. 
Circle 560 on inquiry card. 




Osborne Expansion 
by Osmosis 



Osmosis markets a line of 
Osborne 1 expansion 
equipment. The Osmos 1 is 



a digital plug-in board that 
offers 184K bytes of storage 
per disk. It costs $195 and 



520 July 1963 © BYTE Publications Inc 



What's New? 



can be installed at home or 
by a dealer in less than 30 
minutes. The Osmos 2 kit 
has two double-sided drives 
that replace the existing 
drives. It provides up to 370K 
bytes of storage per disk and 
costs S895. For $1050, the 
Osmos 3 gives the Osborne 
1.5 megabytes of storage on 
double-sided double- 
tracked drives. 

Available free with the 
disk upgrades, Osmos 4 al- 
lows the Osborne to read, 
write, and format floppy 
disks from more than 20 dif- 



ferent computers. Separate- 
ly, it costs S225. The Os- 
borne's screen format can 
be expanded from 52 to 80 
columns with the Osmos 5, 
a $250 plug-in board. 

Osmosis also markets 
Winchester disk drives, disk 
diagnostics, and ana- 
log-to-digital converters for 
the Osborne. For complete 
specifications, contact 
Osmosis, 430 Pacific Ave., 
San Francisco, CA 94133, 
(415) 864-6372. 
Circle 561 on inquiry card. 



SYSTEMS 




TRS-80 Model 4 
Unveiled 



Radio Shack's TRS-80 
Model 4 features an 80-col- 
umn display, a 4-MHz Z80A 
microprocessor, and 64K 
bytes of memory, expand- 
able to 128K bytes. This 
desktop computer is com- 
patible with all existing 
Model III programs and with 
such operating systems as 
CP/M Plus, LDOS, and 
TRSDOS. Standard features 



include a job-control lan- 
guage, a print spooler, and a 
communications program. It 
comes with a 12-inch, high- 
resolution black-and-white 
monitor and a 70-key type- 
writer-style keyboard. The 
keyboard has a 12-key nu- 
meric pad, uppercase and 
lowercase characters, and 
three programmable func- 
tion keys. 



Radio Shack is developing 
new software for the Model 
4 that will take advantage of 
its 80-column screen capa- 
bilities. These packages will 
include a spreadsheet 
calculator and a word pro- 
cessor. With two 184K-byte 
floppy-disk drives, an 
RS-232C serial interface, and 
a parallel printer interface, 
the Model 4 costs $1999. 
Further details are available 
at local Radio Shack stores 
and Computer Centers. 
Radio Shack, 1800 One 
Tandy Center, Fort Worth, 
TX 76102. 
Circle 562 on inquiry card. 



The Spirit of Victory 

Victory Computer Sys- 
tems' Spirit series of 16-bit 
small-business computers 
can be ordered with either 
Intel 80186 or Motorola 
MC68000 microprocessors. 
Operating system support is 
extended to CP/M-86, 
MP/M-86, CP/M-80, and 
Unix. The Spirit design 
employs VME bus architec- 
ture for peripheral expansion 
and up to 16 users. VME 
mixes 8- 16: and 32-bit 
microcomputers on a single 
system. Standard features in- 
clude an advanced mem- 
ory-management unit that 
allows addressing of up to 16 
megabytes of memory, 
256K bytes of dual-ported 
RAM (random-access read/ 
write memory), seven high- 
speed serial RS-232C ports, 
an RS-422A port, and a Cen- 
tronics-type parallel port. 
The Spirit uses a Zilog Z80 
processor for distributed 
computing and intelligent 



I/O control and a 16-bitZilog 
Z8002 chip for Winchester 
hard-disk control. The basic 
Spirit comes with a 5 ]A -inch 
removable-cartridge Win- 
chester unit, a single 5/4- 
or 8-inch floppy-disk drive, 
and a fixed Winchester 
hard disk. 

Memory options include 
5 l A -and 8-inch Winchester 
disks with up to 120 mega- 
bytes of storage, 5 14 -inch 
removable disks with a 6- 
megabyte capacity, and 
slimline 5 ] A- and 8-inch 
floppy-disk drives. System 
prices range from $ 16,000 to 
$26,000, depending on 
configuration. For complete 
specifications, contact Vic- 
tory Computer Systems, 201 
East Hamilton Ave., Camp- 
bell, CA 95008, (408) 
379-6200. 
Circle 563 on inquiry card. 



Low-Cost Computer 
for Novices 

The VZ100 is an expand- 
able system designed for the 
beginning computer user. 
This unit comes with 3K 
bytes of RAM (random-ac- 
cess read/write memory), 
built-in BASIC, and a full-size 
keyboard. The VZ100 can 
use any cassette-tape re- 
corder for mass storage. 
Complete step-by-step in- 
structions are provided. 

Expansion equipment in- 
cludes 16K- and 64K-byte 
memories, joysticks, a 
printer, light pen, modem, 
disk drives, bar-code reader, 
display monitor, and a full 
complement of software. 
The VZ100 costs less than 
$100. Forfull details, contact 



July 1903 © BYTE Publication! Inc 521 



What's New? 



Video Technology (U.S.) Inc., 
2633 Greenleaf Ave., Elk 
Grove Village, II 60007, (312) 



640-1776. 

Circle 564 on inquiry card. 




OimKtmiBmWWmmmt 

siuuuuuuuyuut 
saaaaaaaaoaii 

' aaaoaaaai 



Low-Cost 
Modular Computer 



A Z80-based personal 
computer with a base price 
of S 299.95, the Spectra- 
video offers such standard 
features as Microsoft's ex- 
tended BASIC interpreter, 
CP/M 2.2 and CP/M Plus 
compatibility, 32K bytes of 
ROM (read-only memory), 
and 32K bytes of RAM (ran- 
dom-access read/write 
memory). Its input/output 
specifications include com- 
posite-video and audio out- 
put for a built-in TV modula- 
tor and a data-cassette inter- 
face. The display mode gives 
a 32-character by 24-line 
output using a 5- by 9-dot 
matrix and 16 keyboard-ad- 
dressable colors. Each row 
of the display can be pro- 
duced in different fore- 
ground and background 
colors. The SV-318's audio 
output capability provides 
three channels, each with 
an 8-octave range. The 



ASCII keyboard has 71 
uppercase and lowercase 
characters, 52 graphics sym- 
bols, and 10 user-definable 
function keys. The keyboard 
console also houses a built- 
in joystick and a separate 
game cartridge slot. Editing 
abilities such as cursor-con- 
trol and insertion/deletion 
keys are provided. 

More than 100 software 
packages, including a word 
processor, an electronic 
spreadsheet, and arcade- 
type video games, support 
the SV-318. A data-cassette 
drive, a floppy-disk drive 
unit, and a dot-matrix printer 
are among the 15 hardware 
accessories currently avail- 
able. A complete SV-318 can 
be ordered for less than 
S1500. For full particulars, 
contact Spectravideo, 39 
West 37th St., New York, NY 
10018, (212) 869-7911. 
Circle 565 on inquiry card. 




Bundle of Software 
Follows the Pied Piper 



The Pied Piper I portable 
computer comes with four 
CP/M software programs: a 
word processor, an elec- 
tronic spreadsheet, a 
50,000-word dictionary, 
and a database filer. The 
12/2 -pound Pied Piper is 
built around the 4-MHz 
Z80A processor and offers 
64K bytes of RAM (ran- 
dom-access read/write 
memory), 1 megabyte of 
5!/4-inch floppy-disk stor- 
age, and an 80-character by 
24-line video-display format. 
In addition, a full ASCII key- 
board, a built-in Centronics- 



type parallel printer inter- 
face, and a video-monitor 
port are provided. The Pied 
Piper is supplied with a com- 
plement of communications 
utilities and the CP/M opera- 
ting system. 

Optional software for the 
Pied Piper includes dBASE II, 
Wordstar/Mailmerge, Super- 
calc, and MBASIC. It costs 
S1299. The Pied Piper is 
manufactured by STM Elec- 
tronics Corp., Suite 130, 525 
East Middlefield Rd„ Menlo 
Park, CA 94025, (415) 
326-6226. 
Circle 566 on inquiry card. 



Dual Drives 
Standard with SKS 



Dual 560K-byte floppy- 
disk drives come as standard 
equipment with the SKS 
2000 personal computer, a 
modular machine running 
the 4-MHz Z80A processor. 
It comes with 64K bytes of 
RAM (random-access read/ 
write memory), a built-in 
monitor and keyboard con- 
troller, an RS-232C serial 
printer port, and the CP/M 
operating system. Its stan- 
dard typewriter-style de- 



tachable keyboard has 13 
word-processing keys, 5 cur- 
sor-control keys, 13 numeric 
keys, 8 function keys, and N- 
key rollover. The 12-inch 
P-3I green-phosphor video 
monitor offers an 80 by 24 
format in an 8- by 12-dotgrid 
and such attributes as re- 
verse video and magnified 
character. The serial inter- 
face features half-duplex 
operation and transmission 
speeds up to 19,200 bits per 



522 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



What's New? 



second. Standard software 
includes Wordstar and Mail- 
merge. 

Winchester hard-disk 
drives, RS-422A interfaces, a 
magnetic card reader/en- 
coder, and a real-time clock 
are available as options. The 
SKS 2000 costs S2995. A 
dual-processor model is 
priced at $3795. For com- 
plete details, contact SKS 
Computers Inc., 4091 Leap 
Rd., Hilliard. OH 43026, 
(614) 876-8668. 
Circle 567 on inquiry card. 

PUBLICATIONS 



Software Market 
Newsletter 

The Software Market 
Letter is the monthly 
organ of the National Asso- 
ciation of Free-Lance Pro- 
grammers (NAFLP). This 
newsletter provides soft- 
ware-marketing information 
and advice, including the 
types of software in de- 
mand, how and where to 
sell programs, and how to 
get free-lance programming 
contracts. A unique feature 
of each issue is a complete 
directory of software buyers 
which is continually up- 
dated. The directory offers 
such information as the kind 
of software a buyer seeks, 
fees offered, terms and con- 
ditions, and how and where 
to contact the buyer. Each 
newsletter also has tutorial 
articles that provide ex- 
amples and tips on negoti- 
ating contracts and selling 
software directly. 

Membership in the 
NAFLP is open to all free- 



lance programmers. Annual 
dues are S48, which in- 
cludes a subscription to the 
Software Market Letter. For 
further details, contact 
NAFLP, POB 813P, Vienna, 
VA 22180. 
Circle 568 on inquiry card 



able for S4.95. A combined 
package costs S16. Address 
inquiries to Sin-Time 
Review, Subscription 



Department, POB 742163, 
Houston, TX 77274. 
Circle 570 on inquiry card 



Peek Inside 
Disk Drives 

Inside Personal Com- 
puter Disk Storage Systems 

is an easy-to-understand 
look at what's going on in- 
side your personal com- 
puter's floppy- and hard-disk 
storage system. Complete 
with illustrations, this 
3 2-page book provides a full 
introduction to disks, drives, 
controllers, and operating 
systems. It costs $5 and is 
available from Percom Data 
Corp., 11220 Pagemill Rd., 
Dallas, TX 75243. 
Circle 569 on inquiry card 



Publication About 
Sinclair/Timex 

Sin-Time Review is a bi- 
monthly journal for owners 
of Sinclair/Timex computers. 
This publication has hard- 
ware and software reviews, 
articles, and programs writ- 
ten by Sinclair/Timex users. 
Other features include a 
consumer buying guide, 
book reviews, classified ads, 
and an index of periodicals 
and books. 

Annual subscriptions to 
Sin-Time Review cost S12 
(six issues). The Sin-Time Re- 
view Buyers Guide is avail- 



New Magazine to Focus on Computers 
in Elementary Schools 



A magazine devoted to 
helping elementary school 
teachers understand and 
use microcomputers in the 
classroom will be released in 
September. Scholastic Inc.'s 
Teaching and Computers 
will offer first-person ac- 
counts of how teachers are 
successfully using com- 
puters in their classsrooms, 
nontechnical information 
about computers and how 
they work, and teacher-de- 
veloped lesson ideas for all 
content areas. Also featured 
will be reproducible stu- 
dent-activity pages, recom- 



mended software for in- 
struction or classroom man- 
agement, and fresh informa- 
tion about free materials, 
new books, research, and 
conferences. 

Teaching and Com- 
puters will be produced 
eight times during the 
school year. Subscriptions 
cost $15.95; bulk subscrip- 
tions of five or more are 
$9.95 each. Contact Scho- 
lastic Inc., 730 Broadway, 
New York, NY 10003, (212) 
505-3000. 
Circle 571 on inquiry card 



Developments in Computer Law Probed 



The Computer/Law 
Journal recently published 
its third annual issue de- 
voted to current develop- 
ments in computer law. The 
first articles in this edition 
focus on trade secrets and 
patent protection for com- 
puter software, respectively. 
From there, the discussion 
shifts to the liability of ar- 
chitects and enginners in 
the computer age. The steps 
involved in the negotiation 
and procurement of major 
computer systems are then 
analyzed, and vendor fraud 
and litigation arising from 
negotiations and procure- 
ment are investigated. Con- 
tributing authors are Miles 
Gilbume, Ron Johnston, 



Nelson Moskowitz, Paul 
Mathew, Duncan David- 
son, and Craig Walker. 

This special issue of the 
Computer/Law Journal 
costs $18; outside North 
America, it's $19. Contact 
the Center for Computer/ 
Law, POB 54308 T A., Los 
Angeles, CA 90054. 
Circle 572 on inquiry card 



Unix/C Newsletter 

Quarterly, multivendor 
news for users, owners, pro- 
spective owners, and manu- 
facturers of Unix and C prod- 
ucts is available through 



July 1913 © BYTE Publications Inc 523 



What's New? 



World Unix & C. Produced 
by Southwater Corporation, 
World Unix & C reports on 
mainframe, minicomputer, 
and microcomputer news 
and developments, and 
new Unix and C products. It 
has interviews with users 
and marketing personnel, 
company profiles, book and 
product reviews, -tutorials, 
and project notes. Unix-like 
systems are also covered. 

Prepaid annual subscrip- 
tions to World Unix & C cost 
$12; invoiced subscriptions 
are $16. Contact World Unix 
& C, Southwater Corp., 30 
Mowry St., POB 5314, 
Mount Carmel, CT 06518, 
(203) 288-0283. 
Circle 573 on inquiry card. 

SOFTWARE 




Child's Game 
Stresses Strategy 

In Search of the Most 
Amazing Thing is a combi- 
nation adventure, strategy 
and arcade-type game for 
children from Spinnaker Soft- 
ware. Placed in a fantasy 
world, children are chal- 
lenged to use strategy and 
employ their learning skills 
to discover the location and 
identity of "the most amaz- 



ing thing." Children must 
negotiate economic and 
monetary situations with 
aliens, buy supplies, read 
maps, trade and bargain, 
write music, draw, take and 
write notes, organize mater- 
ials, and make decisions. 
This program features color, 
sound effects, animation, 
and graphics. 

In Search of the Most 
Amazing Thing runs on Ap- 
ple, Atari, Commodore 64, 
and IBM Personal Comput- 
ers. It costs $39.95 and 
comes with Jim Morrow's 
novel The Adventures of 
Smoke Bailey. It's available 
from Spinnaker Software, 
215 First St., Cambridge, MA 
02142, (617) 868-4700. 
Circle 574 on inquiry card. 



Context MBA 
Available for HP 16 

The Context MBA inte- 
grated management soft- 
ware program now runs on 
the Hewlett-Packard Series 
200 Model 16 and the 
Model 36 microcomputers. 
A product of Context 
Management Systems, 
MBA offers spreadsheet, 
word processing, graphics, 
telecommunications, and 
database functions. When 
combined with the HP 
Series 200, MBA lets you 
handle five simultaneous 
functions with immediate 
feedback: spreadsheet 
modeling, memo writing, 
analytical and presentation 
graphics, telecommunica- 
tions, and searching, sort- 
ing, organizing, and using 
information. Its windowing 
feature allows more than 



one MBA function to appear 
onscreen, and any changes 
are automatically incor- 
porated in other portions of 
a program. MBA uses a 
work space with 95 col- 
umns and 999 rows, and 
each MBA cell can hold up 
to 8000 characters. 

Hewlett-Packard provides 
direct customer support for 
the MBA package, including 
90 days of free telephone 
consultation. The suggested 
list price is $795. Contact 
Hewlett-Packard dealers for 
complete details. 
Circle 575 on inquiry card. 



Error Handler for PC 

Ultratrap, a parity error- 
handling utility program 
from Daystar Systems, can 
be ordered through IBM Per- 
sonal Computer dealers. 
This program intercepts and 
circumvents the PC's normal 
parity handler and resets the 
parity error-detection cir- 
cuitry. Such occurrences are 
reported on the video moni- 
tor, which gives you the op- 
portunity to ignore the error, 
abort the program and re- 
turn to DOS, or reboot the 
system by means of a 
"warm-boot" seguence. It 
uses 8K bytes of memory 
and can be configured from 
the keyboard. No patches to 
PC-DOS 1.10 are required. 

Ultratrap comes with a 
dynamic-memory alloca- 
tion utility and a disk emula- 
tor. This package costs 
$39.95. It's available as stan- 
dard equipment with the 



purchase of the 512K-byte 
UltraRAM add-on memory 
board for the IBM, which 
sells for $895. For complete 
details, contact Daystar Sys- 
tems Inc., Suite L, 10511 
Church Rd.. Dallas, TX 
75238, (214) 341-8136. 
Circle 576 on inquiry card. 



Checker Eyes 
Misspelled Words 

Western Software De- 
velopment's Spellpack can 
check the spelling of up to 
50,000 words in any UCSD 
p-System file. It ignores 
special characters inserted 
by a word processor and 
provides a means for de- 
veloping and maintaining 
any number of auxiliary dic- 
tionaries, which can accom- 
modate 450 to 1340 words 
(maximum), depending on 
your computer. Spellpack 
displays full lines of text that 
have an incorrectly spelled 
word, and it lets you print 
sections of the main diction- 
ary containing any subset of 
characters. Properly spelled 
words to be substituted for 
misspellings can be directed 
to either the same text file in 
which the error was de- 
tected or to a new text file. 
Spellpack also supplies you 
with information on the 
number of lines and words 
processed. 

Spellpack runs on the IBM 
Personal Computer (with or 
without an 8087 coproces- 
sor) and the Sage II. It costs 
$125 and is available from 
Western Software Develop- 
ment, POB 953, Woodland 
Park, CO 80863. 
Circle 577 on inquiry card. 



524 July 19(3 © BYTE Publications Inc 



What's New? 




Full-Function 
Relational Database 



The Oracle Version 3 is a 
full-function relational data- 
base for 16-bit microcom- 
puters, mainframes, and 
minicomputers. It has multi- 
user capabilities, automatic 
recovery from system failure, 
and in-batch and online en- 
vironments involving data- 
bases as large as billions of 
characters of data. It's pro- 
vided with a complete set of 
software-development tools 
that include an interactive 
application generator, a re- 
port writer, a word process- 
ing and documentation 
preparation system, and an 
integrated data dictionary. A 



unique feature of Oracle 3 is 
its ability to accept data 
downloaded from a main- 
frame database for analysis 
and reporting on a micro- 
computer. 

Oracle Version 3 current- 
ly works on Motorola 
68000-based systems run- 
ning Unix. The suggested 
retail price ranges from $600 
to $2000, depending on the 
number of users. Contact 
Oracle Corp., Suite 180, 
Building 3, 3000 Sand Hill 
Rd., Menlo Park, CA 94025, 
(415) 854-7350. 
Circle 578 on inquiry card. 



Integrated 
Management System 



Metafile for the IBM Per- 
sonal Computer creates a 
development and opera- 
tional environment that in- 
cludes integrated facilities for 
high-level programming, 
word processing, database 
management, report gener- 
ation, modeling, forms data 



entry communications, and 
mailing-list and spreadsheet 
creation. Metafile can be 
used as an interactive pro- 
gram with menus and help 
screens, or it can be pro- 
grammed to generate soph- 
isticated applications. 
Among Metafile's data- 



preparation capabilities are 
onscreen wordwrap, global 
text search and replace, rela- 
tional database abilities, and 
an integrated data diction- 
ary. For data processing, it of- 
fers 20-digit decimal preci- 
sion, data-file recovery, 
keyed record access, and 
built-in syntax-parsing facil- 
ities. Other features include 
ascending and descending 
sort keys, a printer-control 
language, multiple-level 
sorts using any item, and 
screen windowing and par- 
titioning. Online documen- 
tation and reference infor- 
mation is provided. 

Metafile requires a mono- 
chrome or color graphics dis- 
play, PC-DOS 1.1, 64K bytes 
of memory, a single 320K- 
byte floppy-disk drive, and 
an additional disk drive. It 
supports both removable 
and fixed Winchester disks 
and such printers as IBM Ep- 
son, NEC 3550, Dataprod- 
ucts M200, and Okidata 84. 
It costs $1995. A version of 
Metafile is available for the 
Vector Graphic Series 3. For 
complete details, contact 
Sensor-based Systems, Olm- 
sted Federal Building, Chat- 
field, MN 55923. (507) 
867-4440. 
Circle 579 on inquiry card. 



User-friendly 
Risk Simulator 

The Risk Simulator from 
Actuarial Microcomputer 
Software uses a Monte Carlo 
method to estimate prob- 
ability distributions associ- 
ated with various risk-in- 



volving situations. This pro- 
gram has user-friendly input 
formats and high-resolution 
graphics to make it easier to 
use and understand. Pos- 
sible applications include the 
estimation of automobile 
maintenance expenses and 
employer self-funding of 
health-care benefits. 

The Risk Simulator runs 
on 48K-byte Apple lis, with 
a printer optional. It costs 
$ 187.50 and is available from 
Actuarial Microcomputer 
Software, 3915A Valley 
Court, Winston-Salem, NC 
27106, (919) 765-5588. 
Circle 580 on inquiry card. 



Text Management 
Program 

The Superfile System 3 
text-management program 
from FYI Inc. automatically 
reindexes up to 65,000 rec- 
ords per database. Each free- 
format variable-length rec- 
ord is easy to update and 
can have as many as 500 
keyword descriptors (maxi- 
mum 32,000 keywords per 
database). Superfile System 
3 lets you cross-index and re- 
trieve records by linking as 
many as 128 keywords with 
"and," "or," and "not." You 
can search up to 255 floppy 
or hard disks per database. It 
provides software prompts, 
and output to a printer, 
screen, disk file, or any com- 
bination of the three. 

The Post Haste program 
comes with Superfile. It 
works with Superfile or 
Micropro's Mail Merge and 



July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 525 



What's New? 



gives you capabilities for for- 
matting and printing envel- 
opes and membership and 
directory listings. Post Haste 
sorts alphabetically or by zip 
code. 

Superfile System 3 will run 
on Z80 systems with CP/M 
version 2 or IBM PC-DOS. 



Two floppy-disk drives or a 
hard disk is required. The 
suggested retail price is 
S295. Contact FYI Inc., POB 
26481, Austin, TX 78755, 
(800) 531-5033; in Texas, 
(512) 346-0133. 
Circle 581 on inquiry card. 



Three Program 
Packs for Commodore 64 



Computermat has intro- 
duced three programs for 
the Commodore 64 Color 
Computer: Arcade Pak, 
Game Pak, and Ed-U-Pak. 
Arcade Pak offers three 
high-resolution arcade-type 
games. The first, Alien Inva- 
sion, has 20 levels of play 
and can be enjoyed by 1 to 
4 players. Head-on's race 
against time provides 9 diffi- 
culty levels. Target Com- 
mand challenges you to pro- 
tect your cities from attacks 
from space. Arcade Pak is 
available on floppy disk or 
cassette for S29.95 and 
$24.95, respectively. 

Three games comprise 
the Game Pak: Dragon 
Chase, Flip-It, and Deflect. In 
Dragon Chase, you must 
race through a maze to es- 
cape the dragon that wants 
to broil you. Flip-It is a 
strategy game that can turn 
the tables on you. Deflect is 
a bumper car game. The 
Game Pak is available on 
cassette for $14.95. 

The four Ed-U-Pak pro- 
grams are supplied on cas- 
sette for $24.95. Ruler places 
you in charge of a country. 
Micro lets you make a million 
dollars running a computer 
manufacturing plant. 
Dungeon of Mathacos, an 



adventure game, has you 
searching for treasures and 
answering mathematics 
questions. Geography lets 
you match names and loca- 
tions around the world. For 
more information, call or 
write Computermat, 2984 
Daytona, POB 1664, Lake 
Havasu, AZ 86403, (602) 
855-3357. 
Circle 582 on inquiry card. 

FOREIGN 



Medical Simulation 

You're the Doctor is a re- 
creational/educational simu- 
lation of medical diagnosis 
and treatment from Simula- 
tions Software. This role- 
playing game lets you ex- 
amine and treat patients suf- 
fering illnesses ranging from 
skin rashes to abdominal 
pains (seven different prob- 
lems in all). You must di- 
agnose and treat your pa- 
tients so that you can ad- 
vance from the intern level 
to the chief of staff. Player 
options include lab tests, 
physical examinations, 
anesthesia, and surgery. 
Color graphics and sound 
effects are featured. 



You're the Doctor runs on 
48K-byte Apple lis with one 
disk drive and DOS 3.3. The 
suggested retail price is 
$17.95, which includes a tu- 
torial on medical laboratory 
tests. Contact Simulations 
Software, POB 608, Station 
U, Toronto, Ontario, M8Z 
5Y9, Canada. 
Circle 583 on inquiry card 



Ready-made 
Enclosures 

Industrial Design Con- 
sultancy distributes a range 
of off-the-shelf enclosures 
for computer systems. These 
enclosures, manufactured 
by Data Packaging Ltd. 
County Westmeath, Ireland, 
include 12 7 14 7 and 15-inch 
cathode-ray tube bezels, a 
disk-drive housing, high- 
and low-profile keyboards, 
and a 19-inch control mod- 
ule. All enclosures are said to 
be flexible enough for end 
users to create their own 
product identity, and inter- 
nal provisions allow various 
hardware options. For de- 
tails, contact Industrial 
Design Consultancy, The 
Green, Datchet, Slough, 
Berkshire SL3 9EH, England; 
tel: Slough (0753) 47610. 
Circle 584 on inquiry card 



CP/M File Mover 

Elektrokonsult's CP/M-to- 
CP/M file-transfer utility pro- 
gram File Mover can transfer 
any type of CP/M file from 
one computer to another by 



means of a serial link. File 
Mover uses an error detec- 
tion and correction protocol 
with check sums and auto- 
matic retries to ensure error- 
free file transfer. File Mover 
runs on 8080: 8085; and 
Z80-based machines and 
can be used with data rates 
up to 9600 bits per second. 
File Mover is available in a 
variety of disk formats, in- 
cluding 8-inch single-sided 
single-density, Osborne, 
Rainbow, and hard- and 
soft-sectored Zenith formats. 
With documentation, it 
costs $59.95, plus $8 
shipping and handling. For 
more information, contact 
Elektrokonsult, POB 846, 
N-3001, Drammen, Nor- 
way; tel: [03] 83 15 00. 
Circle 585 on inquiry card 



Jet News from Japan 

Jet News has up-to- 
the-minute reports on Ja- 
panese products, technol- 
ogy, and markets. This trade 
newsletter covers the Ja- 
panese consumer, compon- 
ent, computer, office equip- 
ment, communication, con- 
trol instrumentation, and in- 
dustrial/medical markets. 
Stories are filed from Japan 
and augmented with pic- 
tures and vital statistics. A re- 
cent issue focused on the 
Japanese government's vol- 
untary offer to limit the num- 
ber of VCRs (video-cassette 
recorders) exported to Euro- 
pean Common Market 
member nations and what 



526 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



What's New? 



this could mean to the ailing 
European VCR industry. 

Annual subscriptions to 
Jet News are offered at a 
variety of international ex- 
change rates, ranging from 
1000 Yen to 10.24 Deutsche 
Marks. Jet News is pro- 



duced 24 times a year by 
Benn Electronics Publica- 
tions Ltd., POB 28, Luton 
LU1 2NT, England; tel: Luton 
(0582) 417438; Telex: 
BUSAID 826314. 
Circle 586 on inquiry card 



MISCELLANEOUS 




Ergonomic Keyboard Rated 
for 100 Million Operations 



Cherry Electrical Products 
markets a low-profile, capa- 
citive keyboard that meets 
the ergonomic workstation 
standards to become effec- 
tive in 1985. The new speci- 
fications call for a maximum 
keyboard height of 30 mm 
(millimeters) from the top of 
the workstation desk to the 
top of the home-row keys 
when the keyboard is 
mounted in its enclosure. 
The Cherry keyboard mea- 
sures less than 18 mm from 
the top of its printed-circuit 
board to the home-row key- 
caps. 

The Cherry keyboard 
module consists of five parts: 
keycap, snap-in housing, 
plunger, spring, and metal- 
ized Mylar pad. Life expec- 
tancy is 100 million 
operations. 

The Cherry keyboard can 
be ordered with linear or 
pad tactile feel, both with a 



positive stop. Sculptured or 
stepped spherical keycaps 
are offered. A fully encoded 
83-key unit costs SI 50. In 
volume quantities, the price 
is S0.65 per key position for 
a microprocessor-based 
serial output unit. Contact 
Cherry Electrical Products 
Corp., 3600 Sunset Ave., 
Waukegan, IL 60087, (312) 
578-3500. 
Circle 587 on inquiry card. 



Mouse for IBM PC 

Microsoft is marketing a 
mouse for more than 25 MS- 
DOS-based personal com- 
puters, including the IBM. 
The Microsoft mouse is 
equipped with two buttons 
for selecting commands 
from the screen. It does not 



require a specially prepared 
surface. The mouse is sup- 
plied with a disk containing 
tutorial, practice application, 
and a text-editor program 
with insertion and deletion 
features. 

The Microsoft mouse is 
available in two versions: 
the one for the IBM Personal 
Computer includes a plug-in 
board that fits into any slot 
on the PC's motherboard; 
the second version is de- 
signed for any MS-DOS- 
based computer. This unit 
works with a standard 
RS-232C interface and all its 
required hardware is built in. 
The Microsoft mouse costs 
S195, including software. 
Contact Microsoft Corp., 
10700 Northup Way, 
Bellevue, WA 98004, (206) 
828- 8080. 
Circle 589 on inquiry card. 



Continuous 
Computer Forms 

Micro Format, a mail- 
order company, offers a line 
of continuous computer 
forms, including letterhead 
with "clean edge" perfora- 
tions on all four sides. Other 
products in the line include 
Rolodex cards, index cards, 
continuous envelopes, re- 
port papers, colored labels, 
post cards, and continuous 
checks. 

A starter kit containing 
500 blank letterheads, 500 
labels, and 500 continuous 
3- by 5-inch index cards is 
available for S24, postage 
paid. For a catalog, contact 
Micro Format, Suite 16 A, 



1271 Dundee Rd., Buffalo 

Grove, IL 60090, (312) 

537-2426. 

Circle 590 on inquiry card. 



Computer Access for 
Visually Impaired 

The Viewscan Text Sys- 
tem from Sensory Aids Cor- 
poration is an information- 
handling system for visually 
impaired individuals. With 
VTS, the sight-impaired can 
read printed text, type cor- 
respondence, store text on 
microcassettes, print out 
data, program computers, 
enter or read back data, and 
receive information from 
databases. System compon- 
ents include a personal com- 
puter using BASIC, a video 
screen capable of displaying 
characters 3 inches tall, a 
keyboard unit with a minia- 
ture printer, a handheld 
camera for scanning printed 
text, a calculator, clock/cal- 
endar, a full-size keyboard, 
and a communications in- 
terface. Each piece of the 
system can work indepen- 
dently. 

A complete VTS system 
costs S5640, plus $40 
shipping. The Viewscan dis- 
play is $3500, and the com- 
puter is $2140. A tracking aid 
to guide a camera across 
reading material is available 
for $174, plus $10 shipping. 
For further information, con- 
tact Sensory Aids Corp., 
Suite 110, 205 West Grand 
Ave., Bensenville, IL 60106, 
(312) 766-3935. 
Circle 591 on inquiry card. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publication. IlK 527 



What's New? 




Graphics-Display 
Controller 



The iSBX 275 video- 
graphics controller is the 
latest addition to Intel's 
Multimodule line of circuit 
boards that plug into 8- or 
16-bit Multibus buses. It's de- 
signed for OEM (original 
equipment manufacturer) 
applications such as process 
control, low-end worksta- 
tions, and business presen- 
tation systems. 

The iSBX 275 is a 3- by 
7-inch device combining In- 
tel's 82720 graphics-display 
controller with display mem- 
ory. It can maintain and dis- 
play data on a raster-scan 
screen and can connect to 
color or black-and-white 
monitors, with choice of 50- 
or 60-Hz frame rate. The 
iSBX 275 has approximately 
32K bytes of onboard dis- 



play memory that provides 
nominal resolution of 512 by 
512 pixels for black-and- 
white screens or 256 by 256 
pixels in eight colors. The 
82720 controller lets you 
draw lines, circles, arcs, and 
rectangles with a single 
command and one or more 
parameters. It also handles 
such picture-manipulation 
operations as zoom and pan 
and can horizontally or ver- 
tically output preprogram- 
med 8 by 8 character fonts 
to the screen. 

The iSBX 275 costs S 995. 
OEM prices are available. 
Contact Intel Corp., Litera- 
ture Department SV3-3, 
3065 Bowers Ave., Santa 
Clara, CA 95051. 
Circle 592 on inquiry card. 



Twlxtyper Upgrades Typewriters 



An electronic typewriter 
can be upgraded to a word- 
processing system with 
Twixtyper. By means of a 
simple plug-in interface, 
Twixtyper provides up to 
48K bytes of memory and a 
video monitor to the type- 
writer, which then func- 



tions as an I/O device. Inter- 
faces are available for Adler, 
Royal, and Silver-Reed type- 
writers. For full particulars, 
contact Twix Inc., Suite 100, 
10920 Switzer Ave., Dallas, 
TX 75238, (214) 349-0639. 
Circle 593 on inquiry card. 





m 


% ■- . , - - jH 


w 








■i 


J^gjm^l 



S-100 
Weighing System 



Scalar Electronix has intro- 
duced a load-cell digitizing 
card for S-100 computers. 
This card provides weigh 
platforms, hoppers, tanks, 
and truck scales with a direct 
interface to an S-100 com- 
puter using strain-gauge 
transducers. Overall ac- 
curacy is 0.01%. Other fea- 
tures include a damping filter 
and selectable vectored in- 
terrupts that allow simul- 
taneous operation of sever- 



al cards, with each card 
having its own dead-load 
and span calibration set- 
tings. System hardware in- 
cludes CMOS (complemen- 
tary metal-oxide semicon- 
ductor) circuitry. 

The S-100 weighing sys- 
tem card costs S495. For 
more information, contact 
Scalar Electronix Inc., POB 
0863, Champlain, NY 
12919, (514) 634-7026. 
Circle 594 on inquiry card. 



STD Bus 
Prototyping Board 



Computer Dynamics' 
STD-WW1 prototyping 
wire-wrap board for the STD 
bus offers an interleaved 
powerplanefor +5-voltand 
ground power connections. 
Standard features include 
gold-plated edge card con- 
nectors, plated-through 
holes arranged for optimum 
DIP (dual inline package) 



placement patterns, and 
patterns arranged on the 
card for placement of header 
connectors. 

In single units, the STD- 
WW1 costs SI0. Contact 
Computer Dynamics Inc., 
105 South Main St., Greer, SC 
29651. (803) 877-7471. 
Circle 595 on inquiry card. 



Where Do New Products Items Come From? 

The information printed in the new products pages of BYTE is 
obtained from "new product" or "press release" copy sent by the 
promoters of new products. If in our judgment the information 
might be of interest to the personal computing experimenters and 
homebrewers who read BYTE, we print it in some form. We 
openly solicit releases and photos from manufacturers and sup- 
pliers to this marketplace. The information is printed more or less 
as a first-in first-out queue, subject to occasional priority modifica- 
tions. While we would not knowingly print untrue or inaccurate 
data, or data from unreliable companies, our capacity to evaluate 
the products and companies appearing in the "What's New?" 
feature is necessarily limited. We therefore cannot be responsible 
for product quality or company performance. 



528 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 387 on Inquiry card. 



SUNNY 



LOW LOW COST 



POWER SUPPLIES 

(LINEAR & SWITCHING) 
FORS-100, DISK DRIVES 




S-100 & DISK POWER SUPPLIES 

ITEM + 5V OVP 

~5^ 



12 SLOT & 2 FLOPPY 

(1 Floppy & 1 Hard Disk) 

6 SLOT & 2 FLOPPY 



5A 



NO. 806 & NO. 516 Mainframes Kit 1, 2 & 3 for S-100 n^.rtyor 2 Drives(Floppy&Hard) 

OPEN FRAME, ASSY. & TESTED, 6 OUTPUTS, ADJU. & FUSES PROTECT. 
-5V +24V(OR -H2V) +8V ±16V SIZE W x D X H PRICE 

5-7A PEAk 



ITT 



13A 



3A 



10" x 6" x 5" 



102.95 



3 
S4 6 SLOT & 2 FLOPPY 4A 1A 4-5A PEAK 8A 3A 8%" x 5" X 4%" 92.9f 

DISK POWER SUPPLIES: open frame, assy. & tested, regulated, adjustable & fuses protect 

+24V (or + 12V) +8V Unreg 




ITEM 



IDEAL FOR 



+ 5V OVP 



-5V 



"0 
R1 
R 2 

"3 



2 x 8" SLIMLINE 
2 x 8" or 2 x 5W DISK 
l~3x 8" (or 5V4") FLOPPY] 
[or 1x ~ 



2.5A 
4A 
6A 
6A 



1A 
1A 
1A 



2.5A - 5A Peak 
3A - 5A Peak 
6A - 8A Peak 
6A - 8A Peak 



+ 12V SIZEWxDxH PRICE S3 S 4 forS-100&2Drives 



2A 



1A 



x Floppy & 1x Hard] 
AC & DC POWER CABLES WITH CONNECTOR FOR 2 DRIVES 8.00 

S-100 POWER SUPPLY KITS (open frame with base plate, 3 hrs. assy, time) 

ITEM (IDEAL FOR) +8V -8V +16V -16V -J-28V SIZE: WxDxH PRICE 



5" x 4" x4" 

8" x 4" x 3%" 

10" x 4%" x 3%" 

9" x 6V4" x 4%" 



49.95 
54.95 
69.95 
81.95 



KIT1 


15 CARDS 


15A 


KIT 2 


20 CARDS 


25A 


KIT 3 


DISK SYSTEM 


15A 



1A 



2.5A 


25A 


3A 


3A 


3A 


3A 



5A 



12'x5"x4%" 

12"x5"x4 7 /s" 

13V2"x5"x4 7 /a" 



54.95 
61.95 
69.95 



6 SLOT MAINFRAME assy. & tested only $399.95 + shipping $is.oo 

EACH MAINFRAME (ITEM NO 806 OR 516) CONTAINS: EMI FILTER • FUSE HOLDER • AC POWER CORD • POWER SWITCH & INDICATOR • 
RESET SWITCH • 4ft" COOLING FAN • S-100 BUS 6 SLOT CARD CAGE • (1 10/220 VAC, 50/60 HZ I POWER SUPPLY FOR DISK DRIVES & S-100 
SLOTS • 2 EA DC POWER CABLES WITH CONNECTOR AND MOUNTING HARDWARE FOR DISK DRIVES • 9 EA CUT-OUTS; 7 FOR DB25 
CONNECTOR. 1 FOR 50 PIN CONNECTOR X 1 FOR CENTRONICS • CUSTOM FINISH & LOGO-LESS • COMPACT SIZE • LIGHTWEIGHT, 28 LBS 
ITEM #806 FOR 2 EA 8 THINLINE FLOPPY (TANDON TM848-1 & 848-2 OR EQUIV .), OR ONE HARD DISK, POWER SUPPLY: + 8V/8A, ± 16V/3A, 
f5V/5AOVP. -5V/1A & 24V/5A. SIZE: 12'{W) x 19.5"(D) x 9.8'(H). 

ITEM #516 FOR 2 EA 514" FLOPPY (TANDON TM-100 - 1. 2. 3, 4 OR EQUIV), OR ONE 5%' FLOPPY & ONE 5V." WINCHESTER HARD DISK 
(TANDON TM 600-2, 3 OR EQUIV). POWER SUPPLY: +8V/8A, +16V/3AOVP, +5V/6AOVP, +12V/6A, 8A PEAK. SIZE: 13.75"(W) x 19.5 "(D) x 7"(H). 



SHIPPING FOR EA. PWR SUPPLY: $5.50 IN CALIF.; 
$8.00 IN OTHER STATES;$18.00 IN CANADA. 
FOR EA. TRANSFORMER: $5.00 IN ALL STATES; 
$12.00 IN CANADA. CALIF. RESIDENTS ADD 
6.5% SALES TAX. 



DEALER 

INQUIRIES 

INVITED 



No. 806 & 

NO. 516 Mainframes 






MAILING ADDRESS: 
P.O. BOX 4296 
TORRANCE, CA 90510 

TELEX: 182558 



SUNNY INTERNATIONAL 

(TRANSFORMERS MANUFACTURER) 

(213) 328-2425 MON-SAT 9-6 



SHIPPING ADDRESS: 
22129 1 -2 S. VERMONT AVE 
TORRANCE, CA 90502 



CED. 



MONITORS 



AMDEK COLOR I PLUS 
AMDEK VIDEO 300 (GREEN) 
AMDEK VIDEO 300 (AMBER) 
AMDEK VIDEO 310 (GREEN) 
AMDEK VIDEO 310 (AMBER) 
AMDEK COLOR II 
AMDEK COLOR III 
BMC 13" COLOR MONITOR 
COMREX 13" COLOR W/SOUND 
COMREX 12" HI-RES AMBER 
NEC 12" GREEN SCREEN 
NEC 12" ECONO GREEN 
NEC 12" LO-RES COLOR 
PRINCETON GRAPHICS HX-12 
ZENITH 12" GREEN 
USI 9" AMBER MONITOR 
USI 12" AMBER MONITOR 



319.95 
139.95 
149.95 
169.95 
164.95 
619.95 
369.95 
299.95 
294.95 
149.95 
154.95 

99.95 
299.95 
499.95 

94.95 
129.95 
149.95 



MODEMS 



ANCHOR MARK I ( RS-232) 79.95 

ANCHOR MARK VII [RS-232) 109.95 

NOVATION J-CAT 104.95 

NOVATION 212 AUTO CAT 579.95 

SMARTCAT 212 [1200 BAUD) 429.95 

SMARTMODEM 300 BAUD 194.95 

5MARTMODEM 1200 BAUD 499.95 



VOURE GONNA LOVE THESE 

BOCK BOTTOM PRICES! 



PRINTERS COMPUTERS 



EPSON FX-80 W/TRACTOR 
EPSON RX-80 
EPSON FX-100 F/T 
GEMINI 10 
GEMINI 10X 
GEMINI 15 
GEMINI STX-80 
STAR DP-8240 
JUKI 6100 PRINTER (P) 
NEC 8023 PRINTER 
OKIDATA 82A W/GRAPHICS 
OKIDATA S3A W/GRAPHICS 
OKIDATA 84P 
OKIDATA 84 S 
OKIDATA 92 
OKIDATA 93P 
OKIDATA 93S 
C ITOH 8510 COLOR 
C ITOH 1550 COLOR 
C ITOH 8600 
PRINTMASTER [DAISY) 
PROWRITER I PRINTER 
PROWRITER II PRINTER 
STARWRITER DAISY WHEEL 
TRANSTAR 315 COLOR 
TRANSTAR 130 1BCPS 
TRANSTAR 140 40CPS 
EPSON SERIAL (RS-232) 
GRAFITTI CARD 
GRAPPLER + 
MICROBUFFER II 16K 
PKASO INTERFACE 
WIZARD BPO 16K 
WIZARD SOB 16K 



LOW1 I 

LOW I 1 
LOW! I 
LOW! I 
LOW! I 
LOW I 1 
LOW! I 
LOWll 
549.95 
459.95 
449.95 
699.95 
1049.95 
1129.95 
494.95 
929.95 
994.95 
LOWll 
LOWI I 
999.95 
1549.95 
374.95 
669.95 
1099.95 
449.95 
729.95 
1229.95 
134.95 
84.95 
119.95 
194.95 
129.95 
129.95 
179.95 



COMMODORE 64 364.95 

COMMODORE 1541 DRIVE 319.95 

ATARI 800 479.9S-$100-$379.95 
ATARI 1200 514.95-*100=(414.95 
IBM PC LOWI ! 

COLUMBIA COMPLETE SYS. 3149.95 

IBM-PC COMPATIBLE SYSTEM 
128K, 2-DS/DD DRIVES, KEYBOARD 
AND COMPLETE SOFTWARE PACKAGE 

CORVUS CONCEPT MC68000 $4999 

256K, 8" FLOPPY DRIVE 

COMPLETE SOFTWARE PACKAGE 

BI-DIRECTIONAL B-1/2X11 SCREEN 

CORVUS CONCEPT 512K J5B95 

CORONA DESKTOP PC LOW!! 

IBM-PC COMPATIBLE SYSTEM 

128K 2-DS/DD DRIVES, KEYBOARD 

COMPLETE SOFTWARE PACKAGE 

CORONA PORTABLE PC LOWll 



APPLE COMPATIBLE 

SYSCOM II 729.95 

FRANKLIN ACE 1000 W/COLOR LOWI! 
FRANKLIN ACE 1200 LOWll 

ORANGE + TWO w/Z-80 CPU 999.95 

SPECIAL SYSTEM PRICK 1499.95 
ORAMGK ♦ TWO, 2 DISK DRIVES, 
BUILT IN z-80 CPU, SOFTWARE, 
12" GREW MONITOR & VIDKK 
COMPATIBLE 80 COLUMN CARD. 



EASY-80 80 COL, VIDEO CARD 

POLLY VIDEZ COMPATIBLE: 

WORKS WITH WORDSTAR, dBASB, 

SUPKR-TKXT-PRO, BASIC, CP/H, 

PASCAL. SPECIAL INTRO PRICK 



SOFTWARE 
APPLE // 



W9.9S 



OTHER PRINTERS AVAILABLE 



SANYO MBC-1000 
SANYO PHC-20 
SANYO PHC-25 
EAGLE II 
XEROX 820-11 
NEC APC-H01 
NEC APC-H02 
NEC APC-H03 
NEC APC-WPS1 
NEC APC-WPS2 



1579.95 

77.95 

149.95 

LOWI ! 

2899.00 

2495.00 

2995.00 

3749.00 

4995.00 

5695.00 



4TH DIMENSION DRIVE+CTRL 
4TH DIMENSION DRIVE-ONLY 
HAYES MICROMODEM II 
KENSINGTON SYSTEM SAVER 
RANA ELITE I W/CTRL-CARD 
RANA ELITE II W/CTRL 
RANA ELITE III W/CTRL 
SOFTCARD (Z-80 CARD) 
MICRC-SCI A2 W/CTRL-CARD 



289.95 
199.95 
259.95 
64.95 
359.95 
509.95 
649.95 
234.95 
319.95 



DISKETTES 



ELEPHANT DISKETTES SS/SD 
ELEPHANT DISKETTES SS/DD 
ELEPHANT DISKETTES DS/DD 



16.95 
19.95 
25.95 



ASCII EXPRESS PRO 
BPI GENERAL ACCOUNTING 
DATASTAR ( REQ Z-80) 
dBASE II (REQ. Z-80) 
INFOSTAR (REQ Z-80) 
REPORTSTAH (REQ Z-80) 
SENSIBLE SPELLER 
SPELLSTAS (REQ Z-80) 
SUPERCALC (REQ Z-80) 
SUPER-TEXT PRO 40/80 
VISICALC 3.3 
WORDSTAR ( REQ Z-80 ) 

IBM 

LOTUS 1-2-3 

BPI PERSONAL ACCOUNTING 

QUICK CODE (MS-DOS) 

PIE WRITER 

SMARTCOM II 

BASIC COMPILER 

PEACHTEXT 5000 SER.9 

SUPERCALC II 

VISICALC 2S6K 

COMMODORE M 

CHOPLIFTER 

ROUNDABOUT 

COCO 

WAY OUT 

JUMP MAN 

GRIDRUNNER 

PHAROH'S CURSE 

HESMON 

HOHETERM 



89.95 
294.95 
194.95 
449.95 
319.95 
239.95 

84.95 
164.95 
189.95 

69.95 
174.95 
319.95 



LOWll 
149.95 
209.95 
139.95 

89.95 
279.95 
259.95 
209.95 
179.95 



34.95 
21.95 
37.95 
27.95 
27.95 
27.95 
24.95 
27.95 
37.95 



TKKMKi CASHIER'S CHECK OR VISA/MASTERCARD (NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR CARDS). PERSONAL CHECK (2 WEEKS TO CLEAR). PURCHASE ORDERS MUST 
INCLUDE CHECK. SHIPPING * HANDLING: 5% (*5 MINI; APO FPO ALASKA HAWAII f. MONITORS ADD 5% ($10 MINI; FOREIGN ORDERS ADD 15% ($15 
MIN). ALL ITEMS ARE HEW WITH MANUFACTURER'S WARRANTY. PRICES ARE SUBJECT TO AVAILABILITY fi CHANGE WITHOUT KOTICE. CALIFORNIA ADD 
6» SALES TAX. SEND SI (GOOD TOWARD FIRST PURCHASE) FOR NEW FALL CATALOG. 7.1.83 



APPLE COUNTRY, LTD. 
P.O. BOX 1099 
r* n u i i//>-Ai^r/./%«« 2602 WASHINGTON 

Call us... we can help! (619) 765-0239 JUL | AN> calif 92036 

Circle 31 on Inquiry card. 



DEC RAINBOW 

MANAGER'S TOOLBOX 



Software for the "Electronic Desk"! 

* REMIND -Appointment calendar 

and "tickle" file. 

* PHONE Telephone list manager. 

* CALC Desk calculator. 
*MEMO Simplified word processor 

for writing memoranda. 

Package Price: " 1 69 
Call or Write for Free Brochure 



fKcrfe 

ssccixtcs 



P.O. Box 19130 
Minneapolis, MN 55419 
(612) 825-5444 




i""™ Heath 
Users 




Double Your 
5%" disk storage 
capacity without adding a drive. 

Get twice as much from your H88 or 
H89 microcomputer. Our FDC-880H 
floppy disk controller, in conjunction 
with your 5%" drives, for example, 
expands memory capacity from 256 
bytes to 512 bytes per sector. 

And it handles single and double- 
sided, single and double-density. 8" and 
5!4" drives — simultaneously. 



Ol 



C.D.R. Systems Inc. 

Controlled Data Recording Systems Inc. 

7210 Clairmont Mesa Blvd., San Diego, CA 92111 

(619) 5*0-1272 



maxell 

Floppy Discs 

CALL NOW -TOLL FREE 

1-800-328-DISC 

Dealer inquiries invited. C.O.D.'s and 
charge cards accepted. 
All orders shipped from stock, 
within 24 hours. Call toll FREE. 



m 



AJk\ 



North Hills Corporation 

3564 Rolling View Dr. 

White Bear Lake, MN 55110 

1-800-328-DISC 

MNCall Collect 1-612-770-0485 



Circle 489 on inquiry card. 



Circle 66 on inquiry card. 



Circle 294 on Inquiry card. 



Off* 



IEEE-696 S-100 monochrome 



hCS 



IEEE-696 S-100 



MONOCHROME / COLOR $895 



IEEE-696 S-100 



EIGHT COLOR 



-3<5i2« 612 Pixel 

- 8 Color ROB 

- Two board system 

MULTIBUS EIGHT COLOR 

- 3 x 1024 x 1024 Pixel 

- Eight color RGB 

- Single board system 

IBM-PC 

MONOCHROME - 1 x 512 x 612 Pixel 

- 1 x 1024 x 1024 Pixel 
COLOR - 3 x 512 x 512 

- 3 x 1024 1 1024 Pixel 



S496 
$995 

$1205 
$1995 



FEATURES 

Software driver 



Hardware zoom. Programmable 
uispiay Resolution. Windowing, Multi-Controller 
Capability, NEC UPD7220 Graphic Controller 

ULTRA-RES Trademark CSD Incorporated Starting 

MULTIBUS Trademark Intel Corporation 

C.S.D. Incorporated 

P.O. Box 253 Sudbury. Massachusetts 01776 
(617) 443-2750 



VOICE SYNTHESIZER 

vocabulary Development System 

Create custom vocabularies for TI-5220 

or Gl SP-250 Speech Synthesizers 

INCLUDES HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE FOR: 

• DMA Voice Digitizing and Playback 

• Parameter extraction and coding 

• Screen Oriented Parameter Editor 

• Voice Synthesis 

USE YOUR S-100 SYSTEM, OR BUY OUR 

INTEGRATED SYSTEM BASED ON ZENITH Z-100 

The Zenith Z-100 includes 8085/88 dual 

processor, 128K memory, two 5 'A, 320K- 

byte drives, both CP/M80 and MS DOS and 

bit-mapped graphics, with CRT and keyboard in a 

convenient desktop model. 

VPP-696: PC cards, software, speaker, cabling 
and documentation - $4100 

VPP-696Z: Includes VP-696 fully integrated to 
Z-100 with all cabling, software and 
documentation - $8850 
MULTIBUS VERSION FOR INTEL MDS AVAILABLE SOON 

APPLIED DIGITAL SIGNAL ANALYSIS 
P.O. Box 1364 Palo Alto. CA 94301 (415) 326 7303 



DISKETTES 

maxell verbatim 



100% ERROR FREE 
SV. SS/DD 

28. 95 

(BOX 10) 




CAPTAINS 
SPECIAL 



, OBDtB OF DISKS 

MX - 80 
CARTRIDGE 



ADD ZOO SHIP 
5% TAX IN FLA. 

800-327-1013 



MEGA-BYTE 

40M S.W. 4SO> STREET 

FORT LAUD., FLA 33314 

305-5*7-1 T30 



Circle 62 on inquiry card. 



Circle 8 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 256 on inquiry card. 



& Dysan 



Solve your daac pnUom, buy 100% surface 
tested Dywan ih«B Ai order, shipped 
bom stock, wllhan 24 houra. Call toB FREE 
(800) 23S4137 for price, and tafarmatton. 
Vaw and Mater Card ■ccapaad 



PACIFIC 

EXCHANGES 

100 Foothill Blvd 
San Luis Obispo. CA 
93401 (InCal. call 
(805)543-1037) 




Business Systems Research A Development, Inc. 
P.O. Box 1253 / Tucker, 6a. 30085-1253 / 404-491-0864 

"dBase-Doc it now available" 

What is dBaaa-Doc? dBase-Doc is a completely 
mechanized tyttem documentation facility" for 
user-developed dBase-M application systems. 
Here is a partial list of dBaaa-Doc capabilities: 

1. Logical Daslgn Specification* — interactive 
data entry and reporting Proceas Descriptions, 
and Data Dictionary object types. 

2. Data Dictionary — interactive reporting of ob- 
ject-type cross reference, summary, and direc- 
tory reports. 

3 Block Diagram Ganarator — interactive entry 
of diagram specifications, and either interac- 
tive or "batch" block diagram reporting. May be 
used to draw Hierarchical Analyst* Diagrams, 
data base Hierarchical Diagrams, and Data 
Basa Linkage Diagram*. 

4. Physical Design — interactive entry of program 
description and "statistics", and either batch or 
interactive reporting of program folder docu- 
mentation, and program-to-program cross rat., 
program-to-data-base cross ref ., and other val- 
uable cross-reference and "summary" reports 

5. Super-list — use this print utility to list dBase- 1 1 . 
assembler, PL/1, etc. program source files. 
Super-list allows you to "batch print one hun- 
dred (or fewer) programs per execution. 



dBASE-ll is a registered trademark of Ashton-Tate, 

Inc. 

dBASE-DOC is a registered trademark of Business 

Systems Research and Development- 



Verbatim® 
Diskettes 




Top-quality Verbatim® Diskettes 
from Tech'Data, your complete 
supply and peripheral wholesaler. 
Dealers only. 



Call Toll Free 

1-800-237-8931. 

In Florida, call 

813-577-2794. 



S. 



Tech* Data Corporation 

3251 Tech Drive North 
St. Petersburg, FL 33702 



Circle 310 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 57 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 401 on Inquiry card. 



Super Prices - Quick Delivery 

MINIMUM SHIPPING $3.00 - NO SURCHARGE ON VISA/MASTERCHARGE 



1-800-545-2633 - Continental U.S. 



DISK DRIVES 



SHUGART 

5Vt" SA400 (35) 150.00 

5V<" SA400L (40) 175.00 

5'/4" SA410L (40) 200.00 

SW SA455L (40) 235.00 

8" SA801R (SS/DD) 355.00 

MITSUBISHI 

5V4"M-4851 Vzsize 

DS/DD 40Tr 295.00 

5 1 /4" M-4853 Vi size 410.00 

96 7 PI same as TM 100-4 
SW M-4854 Vi size 439.00 

7.5 MG w/ 8" electronics formats 
same as IBM 1&2D8" std 
8" M-2894-63 409.00 

Std 8 "DS/DD 1.2 MG 
8" M-2996-63 439.00 

Thinline 8" DS/DD 1.2 MG 



APPLE DISK DRIVES 



Thinline II' - >/i size 163K 40TR 235.00 

TEAC "Thinline - Vl size 163K 40TR . 275.00 

Micro-SCI 239.00 

Controller 79.00 

Hana Elite I 275.00 

Rana Elite II 439.00 

Rana Elite III 569.00 

Lemon (6AC outlets • 3 prong) 4600 

Lime (5' - 3 prong pwr cord w/on-otf switch 69.00 
Orange - AC surge • EMI filter (6 outlets) 1 19.00 
Plum -EMI-RF filter 39.00 

8" DSC 88-2SKT - for 2-8 " drvs w/skt. conn 16.95 
5'/4 ' DSC55-2SKT • for 1 -5V." drvs w/sM conn. $1 5 
RS232MM-5' (male to male) 16.00 



DATA CABLES 



SHUGART 800/801 R 
RECONDITIONED 

90 Day Warranty 160.00 

TANDON 

5'/4"TM100-1 SS/DD .... 195.00 
5'/4"TM100-2(IBM) 

DS/DD 239.00 

PERTEC 

5V4" FD200-S 

SS/DD 40TR 139.00 

5 1 /4" FD250-5 DS/DD 

40TR 195.00 

MPI 

5V4" B-51 40TR SS/DD . . . 230.00 
5'/4" B-52 (IBM) 80TR 
DS/DD 250.00 

All above drives SS/DD unless otherwise specified 



DISKETTES 



All diskettes have 1 yr. min to lifetime warranty. 
Prices are for package of 1 Call for qty pricing. 

5*4" Sgl side/sgl den 19.00/10 

514" Sgl side/dbl den 20.00/10 

SW Dbl side/dbl den 26.00/10 

5VV 10 sector 22.00/10 

&W 16 sector 22.00/10 

8" Sgl side/dbl den 29.00/10 

8" Dbl side/dbl den 36.00/10 



Hayes Smart Modern 300 
209.00 



E PROM ERASERS 



QUV-T8/1 (hobby) 49.95 

QUV-T8/2 (Industrial version) 68.95 

QUV-T8/2 (w/timer & safety switch) 97.50 



DISK DRIVE CABINETS 



*NOTE - Power supply will accommodate hard disk 

8" *DDC88V28 w/PS vertical - for 2-8" drives .... 300.00 

8" DDC88T-1 w/PS vertical - 

For 2 or 4-8" thinline drives 300.00 

8" DDC88T-2 w/PS vertical - inexpensive version for 
2-8" thinline drives 225.00 

8" *DDC8V w/PS vertical - for 1-8" drive 249.00 

8" *DDC88H w/PS horizontal - for 2-8" drives 300.00 

5 1 /4" DDC5H w/PS horizontal - for 1 -$W drive . . . 59.00 

5 1 /4" DDC55H w/PS vertical - for 2-5 1 /4" drives . . . 89.00 



MONITORS/TERMINALS 



Sanyo 21 12 (15 MHZ) 80.00 

BMC 12A(15MHZ)12'Grn 80.00 

BMC 9191 color 12" 269.00 

Amdek Color III 395.00 

USI 9" Grn (20 MHZ) 139.00 

USI 12" Grn (20 MHZ) 139.00 

USI 12" Amber (20 MHZ) 149.00 

Televideo 910 560.00 

Televideo 925 715.00 

Televideo 950 899.00 

Televideo 970 1095.00 



PRINTERS 



TMS2532 
2716(5V) 



S2.50M. TMS2716(5-t-12V) S3. 95m. 
S 1.50 m TMS2732 $4.95 M. 

SS95M TMS4164(200NS) 5.BS M. 
$3.95 m TMS61 1 6-4(20ONS) S4.7S M. 
MANY OTHERS IN STOCK 



CONNECTORS 



RS232 Connectors 
SOLDER TYPE FLAT RIBBON TYPE 

OB25P 2.50 IDC25P 6.25 

DB25S 3.00 IOC25S 6.60 

DB25Hood 1.00 IDC25Hood 1.60 

S- 1 00 Connectors 10 lor 26.00 



c. itoh 

Pr O -Wnterll85l0A) 120CPS 
Star-WnierFlO<Ltr quality) 

STAR MICRO- TRONICS 
Gemini 10 MOO CPS) 80 Col 
Gemini 1 5 ( 1 00 CPS) 1 32 Col 

OKI-DATA 
B2A Par * Ser 80 Col 
R3APar ■ Ser 132 Col 
84BBer200CPS 132 Col 
92A l60CPS-Par80Co' 
93A 160 CPS- Par i32Co! 

NEC 
NEC 8023 A 

TOSHIBA 
P-1350 Llr quality ■ '20 CPS 

Draft mode 1 92 CPS Par or Serial 
P-350 (100 CPS) Cenirontcs Par- 15 
MPI 
MPI99GI9 ) 
MPI 150A1 (15 ) 



EPSON 



MXSOWGraphtra* 

M80FT */Graphtrax 

FX80 

MX100 

MX100FX 



399.00 
650.00 
950.00 
519.00 
899 00 



1500.00 
429.00 



399 00 
449.00 
549.00 
629.00 
CALL 



S-1 00 PRODUCTS 



GIGANTIC REDUCTIONS 
IN PRICE! 



CARD CAGES/MOTHER BOARDS 



*/f B E - 696 - No termination required 

Slots Bare Bd A+T w/cardcage 

4 15.00 40.00 60.00 

6 20.00 48.00 70.00 

8 25.00 69.00 100.00 

12 30.00 99.00 140.00 

18 45.00 150.00 200.00 

22 60.00 185.00 



All card cages will accommodate a 4" fan 
Add $20 00 for 1 fan - Add $30.00 for 2 fans 



MAINFRAMES 



For 2 Standard 8" Drives 

MF+DD6 (6 slot M/B) 699.00 

MF+DD8 (8 slot M/B) 749.00 

MF + DD12 (12 slot M/B) 799.00 

For 2 Thinline 8" Drives 

IMF+DD6C (Cadillac version) 500.00 

IMF+DD6F (Ford version) 350.00 

For 2 - 5%" Disk Drives 

MF + MD12 (12 Slot M/B) 575.00 

Standard Plain Front 

MF+ 12 (12 slot M/B) 500.00 

MF+22 (22 slot M/B) 600.00 

All mainframes except IMF+ DD6F have EMI filter, 2 AC 
outlets, 15 ea. DB25, 2 ea. 50 pin, 2 ea. 34 pin, 1 ea. 
Centronic cutouts, power supply for 8" MF 
( - 5 V 1 A/ + 5V6A/ + 8V 1 6A/ + 1 6V3A/ + 24V6A) 



SIERRA DATA 



SOS-SBC 100-Z80(4mni> 

master 2 Mull 2 par/floppy coniro»o"64ii rn 
SDS-S8C l00S-4mhi slav*/; w*.ji 

? par/e**. ram 
SDS-ZSIO'4 - 4 SBnai port I'O bd 
SOS-MUX - RS232 multipMMar nd 
SDS-HDi-M - Hart dis* bd lor m-cropoM 
SDS-CPW/B !0»- cp/m Hw SBC 100 *'BIOS 
SDS Turoodoa - Muld-usaf 'or mastarA ilavas 



BOARD SETS 



Best Bare Board Set Available 
QTC-SBC2/4CPU 
QTC-EXP + III 256K Memory bd. 
QTC-FDC 5/8 Floppy disk controller 
Bare Board Set $150.00 I 



QT CLOCK/CALENDAR 



COMPUPRO 



S-100-allassembled and tested 

System 816A 4000.00 

20 Slot MB 210.00 

CPU 8085/88 389.00 

Ram17-64K 410.00 

Ram21-128K 900.00 

Disk II 610.00 

System Support I 310.00 

Interfacer 4 310.00 

Active Teammates 50.00 

Enclosure 2 (disk) 675.00 

Call for others 



CPU /MEM /I/O 



S- 1 00 or Appto • Tima m n<s 
Formal • Dale in Mo Day 1 
recooniiion • * Hard inierrupi 
.On board tanary (wliiasl ' 
QTC-CCS-BBlS-100} 
QTC-CCS-K(ht1|for S-100 
OTC-CCS-A(A.THofS-10> 
OTC-CCA-BBltorAppwl 
QTC CCA-A |(o> App*al 



Day oi Waa« & Laap Year 



It 00 00 
1125.00 
S33.00 
S10O.00 



U49 00 

(J7S0C 
«47S0C 



Retail Sales 

123 East 200 South 
Salt Lake City, Utah 841 11 



Computer Company, 



1-801-363-3314 



Mail Orders ' — 

P.O. Box 3150 
Salt Lake City, Utah 841 10 



Circle 181 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 531 



BATTERY BACKUP 32K 

CMOS RAM/EPROM 
S-100 MEMORY BOARD 
8 or 16 BIT DATA PATH 
$279 A&T . 




* 6MHZ * bank select 

* phaniom option * activity Indicator 

* IEEE 696 (S-100) compatible 

* extended addressing switch selectable 

* all address and data lines are buttered 

* window selection at 2K boundary 

* EPROM can be mixed with RAM 

Yang Electronic Systems, Inc. 

307 Comoton Ave. Laurel. Maryland 20707 

(301) 776-0076 



Circle 453 on Inquiry card. 



0k 



BG BANK64S 
MAXIMUM FLEXIBILITY! 



64K CMOS STATIC RAM 
LlTHHiUM BATTERY BACKUP 



MPM • CDOS • MULTI-USER 



$399 



EXTENDED TRACK BUFFERING 

v / SIMULTANEOUS MEMORY ACCESS FEATURES 

. 8/1 6 BIT DATA TRANSFERS. 4 INDEPENDENT 16K X 8 
(or 8K X 16) BANKS. ADDRESSABLE ON 16K BOUND- 
ARIES. 2K DESELECTS FOR EACH BANK. 24-BIT EX- 
TENDED ADDRESSING . PHANTOM- RESETON/OFF. 8 
MHZ. IEEE696/S-100 • CROMEMCO COMPATIBLE 
* DEALER, OEM CALL! 5 BOARDS = 7 USERS 



OPTION: LITHIUM BATTERY BACKUP: Unique POWER- 
FAIL-SENSE circuit and Lithium battery allows processor to 
save register information and disable board before POWER 
FAILURE CRASHES memory ($39). 



BG COMPUTER APPLICATIONS, 206 Brookside 
Bryan, Texas 77801 . International Orders Add 30% 

(409)-775-5009 



Circle 49 on Inquiry card. 



Become a quick change artist with a pair 
of these Light-weight, compact 

RS-232 
GENDER CHANGERS 



DOUBLE FEMALE 






DOUBLE MALE 



S19.95 each S35/palr 

• All 25 pins connected 

• Gold plated contacts 

• EMI shielded 

• Hardware included 

• Assembled & tested 

• One year warranty 

Personal Check/Cashier's Check/ 
Money Order 

PREPAID includes shipping 

ID residents add sales tax. 
DATA CABLE CO., Inc. 

P.O. Box 7392 
BOISE, IDAHO 83707 

208-385-0096 



Circle 124 on inquiry card. 



i^i^i and more 



Printers-Save 20-40% 

CIDpkZ and more 



' CALL ' 

Wordstar.^. 239 

Software 30-50% Oft 

Compatable Drives 219 

Save on Compatables! 

PORTABLES and more 

Kayproll 1459 

Pied Piper 1090 

Osborne Exec. 1 1 499 

Corona ■ Chameleon e Zorba 

For Complete Selection and ' yJ5l 
Lowest Prices — Free Catalog ■MM 

COMPUTERS 

and more 

2420 University Ave., Suite 3, To Order 
San Diego, Ca. 92104 (619)291-1442 



Smith-Corona TP- 1 Daisy Wheel Printer 

0^43 900 

Includes $50.00 Rebate. 

UNBELIEVABLE! 

• fully-formed characters • serial or parallel interlace 



Also for your TP- 1 letter quality printer - 
the Smith Corona Tractor Feed 

• Ad|usiable tractor widrr 
§ a| 3495 " F ° r corMinuous forr 




Circle 106 on inquiry card. 



Circle 168 on inquiry card. 




Circle 121 on inquiry card 



TeleVideo DEALERS 

• Fast Dump/Restore 

over 600k per disk »B0 

• Typeahead with Print Screen 

64k Byte Type Buffer .060 

• 3270 & 3780 Bisync Communications 

from phone 1 & Betech (700 & (300 

• Turbo Dos for televideo Start at 1225 

• BIOS & Formatting for 802H 

use all 20 MB * • / *C* r * 1S0 

• 8" Disk Drive for 802 Drive 

Hdwr & Softwere $1,100 

• RM Cobol for Turbo Dos 

Full System. . . J%y. *525 

RunTime 0175 

• Standby Power System 

200VA-400VA-700VA Aa low •• 0363 

CP'M* is registered trademark of Digital Research, inc 

TurboOQS is a registered trademark ot Software 2000, Inc. 

PLUS OTHER GOOD TELEVIDEO STUFF! 

COGITATE, Inc. 

SPECIALISTS IN UNIQUE TELEVIDEO SOFTWARE 

24000 Telegraph Road, Soulhfield, Ml 48034 
(313) 352-2345 

VISA/MASTER CARD Accepted 




NEW PRODUCT! 




CP/M Z80-A 

SINGLE BOARD C0MP0TER 

• On board video • Wide line and thin line graphics • 
12BK of RAM • Sasi interface • Floppy disk controller 
for up to four 5-1/4 or 8 inch drives, single/double den- 
sity simultaneously • 4 serial ports •Full Centronics 
printer port • Expansion bus • Extended track buffer • 
16K printer buffer • DMA • Compact size 



$750.1 



1 $10.00 shipping 



/(if 

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, CORPORATION 

3798. Western Ave., Suite 12, 

lus Angeles, CA 90004, (213) 461-3262 

Dealer. OEM. International Inquiries Welcome 



Circle 77 on inauiry card. 



Circle 203 on inquiry card. 



/C\ Alspa Computer, Inc. 



The price-perlormance leader Includes Z80A, 1 or 2 full 8" ds/ 
dd drives, 3 serial and 1 parallel port, Winchester port, network- 
ing Prices start at less than $2000, DEALER / OEM 
inquiries invited 

SPECIALS on INTREGATED CIRCUITS 



6502 7,45 

6502A/6512A 8.40 

6520 PIA 5.15 

6522 VIA 645 

6532 7,90 

2114-L200 

2716EPROM 

2532 EPROM 

6116 2KX8 CMOS RAM 

4116 RAM 

Zero Insertion Force 24 pin 



50/6, 
50/7 
50/4 
50/5 
50/7. 
25/2, 

5/4. 

5/7. 

5/7. 
8 tor 14 
SocketJScanbe) 



10/6.95 

10/795 

10/4.90 

10/6.10 

10/7 40 

2.45 

4.90 

790 

7 90 



55 100/6.15 

35 100/6.90 

45 100/4.15 

75 100/545 

00 100/6.60 

30 100/2.15 

50 10/4.00 

45 10/6.90 

45 10/6.90 

2.00 




Hewlett Packard 

Write or call for prices 

Anchor 
Automation , 
Signalman 
Modems 

FREE SOURCE MEMBERSHIP WITH SIGNALMAN 

All Signalman Modems are Direct Connect, and include cables 
to connect to your computer and to the telephone Signalman 
Modems provide the best price- performance values, and start 
at less than $1 00 Dealer and OEM inquiries invited 

Mark I RS232 (99) 79 

Mark II for Atari 850 (99) 79 

Mark IV for CBM/PET with software (169) 119 

Mark V for Osborne (software available) (129) 93 

Mark VI for IBM Personal Computer (279) 195 

Mark VII Auto Dial/Auto Answer (179) 119 

Mark VIII Bell 212 Auto Dial/Answer (399) 319 



DC HAYES Smartmodem 
DC Hayes Smartmodem 1 200 



219 

545 




PROM QUEEN lor VIC 
Apple Emulator for Commodore 64 
Screenmaker 80 COLUMN CARD for C64 
Solid Oik 2 Level Stand for C64 or VIC 

C64/VIC Switch (networking) 

BACKUP VI. tape copier for C64 or VIC 

CARDBOARD/6 Motherboard - VIC 
CARDAPTER/1 Atari VCS Adapter - VIC 
CARDPRINT Printer Interface - C64/VIC 
CARDBOARD/3S Motherboard - VIC 
CARDETTE/1 Cassette Interlace - C64/VIC 
CARDRITER Lightpen - C64/VIC 
CARDRAM/16 RAM Expansion - VIC 
Complete CARDCO Line in stock 



170 
89 

155 
29 

135 
20 

79 
69 
64 
32 
32 
32 
64 



APPLE FRANKLIN ITEMS 

KRAFT Apple Joystick 43 

16K RAM Card for Apple 59 

Solid Oak 2 Level Stand for Apple 29 

Super Serial Card 149 

MPC RAM/80 column card for HE 139 

Z80 Softcard and CP/M (Microsoft) 235 

RANA Elite I with Controller 389 

Parallel Printer Interface/Cable 79 

Apple Dumpling (Microtek) Printer Interface 1 1 5 

Apple Dumpling with 16K Buffer 160 

Grappler + Interface 140 
Kraft for Apple in stock 

DC Hayes Micromodem II 299 

Videx 80 Column Card 209 
Hiyden Software for Apple 20% OFF 

PIE Writer Word Processor 120 



commodore 

See us for Personal, Business, and Educational 
requirements. Educational Discounts available. 

PETSCAN I $245 base price 

Allows you to connect up to 30 CBM/PET Computers to 
shared disk drives and printers. Completely transparent to the 
user Perfect for schools or multiple word processing con- 
figurations. Base configuration supports 2 computers Addi- 
tional computer hookups $100 each 



COMPACK 



$115 



Intelligent Terminal Package for PET. CBM, C64 

Includes AC I A Hardware / STCP Software 

VE-2 IEEE to Parallel Interface 110 

Includes case, power supply, full 8-bit transmission, and 
switch selectable character conversion to ASCII 

VIDEO ENHANCER for Commodore 64 89 

Realize video quality equal or better than composite monitor 
using standard color TV 

SCREENMAKER 80 Column Adapter forC64 149 

Provides big screen capability for business applications. 



VIC 20 Products 

BACKUP V1.0 2D 

VIC RAM Cards in stock 
VIC SuperExpander 52 
VIC 16KRAM 
Thorn EMI Software 
HES Software 
VIC Omega Race 
Spiders of Mars (UMI) 
Programmers Aid 



95 



VICTORY Software 



Street Sweepers 
Night Rider 
Treasures of Bat Cave 
Games Pack I 
Victory Casino 
Adventure Pack II 



12 
11 
12 
12 
8 
12 



VIC Sargon II Chess 
VIC GORF 
Meteor Run (UMI) 
VIC Radar Ratrace 
Amok (UMI) 
Snakman 
Rubik's Cube 
Programmers Reference 
FROGGER 

VIC Adventure Series 
for VIC and C64 
Maze in 3-D 
Cosmic Debris 
Grave Robbers Advent 
Games Pack II 
Adventure Pack I 
Trek 



Commodore 64 Programmers Reference Guide 16 

MicroChess for C64— 8 levels of play 19 

Compute's First Book of PET/CBM 1 1 

C64 or VIC SWITCH 125 

POWER ROM Utilities for PET/CBM 78 

WordPro 3+/64 69 

WordPro 4+ - 8032, disk, printer 295 

SPELLMASTER spelling checker for WordPro 1 70 

VISICALC for PET, ATARI, or Apple 1 89 

PET-TRAX PET to Epson Graphics Software 40 

SM-KIT enhanced PET/CBM ROM Utilities 40 

Programmers Toolkit - PET ROM Utilities 35 

CALC RESULT for C64 135 

PET Spacemaker II ROM Switch 36 

COPYWRITER Word Processor for C64 69 

2 Meter PET to IEEE or IEEE to IEEE Cable 40 

Dust Cover for PET, CBM, 4040, or 8050 8 
CmC Interfaces (ADA1800. A0A1450. SAOI in stock) 

ZRAM - CBM 64K RAM, Z80, CP/M 550 

Programming the PET/CBM (Compute!) — R. West 20 

Compute! First Book of VIC 1 1 

HES MODEM with Software 65 

HES Software and Hardware in stock 

UMI products in stock 

OMNICALC (HES) Spreadsheet for C64 79 

FlexFiie fir PET/CBM/ CM $110 

Database, Report Writer with calculations, Mailing Lists. 

FORTH for PET/C64 full FIG model — Cargill/Riley $50 
Metacompiler f or FO RTH for independent object code 30 



KMMM PASCAL for PET/CBM/C64 

EARL for PET/CBM Disk-based ASSEMBLER 



85 
65 



Super Graphics — BASIC Language Extensions 45 

Fast machine language graphics routines for PET/CBM 

"ram/rom for pet/cbm " ""7k $75 _ 8K $90 

"Disk JCU - Recovery System for PET/CBM 40 




DISK 
SPECIALS 

Scotch (3M) 5" SS/dd 10/2 20 50/2.00 1 

Scotch (3M) 5" ds/dd 10/3.05 50/2.80 1 

Scotch (3M) 8" ss/sd 10/2.30 50/2.10 1 

Scotch (3M) 8" ss/dd 10/2.85 50/2.70 

We stock VERBATIM DISKS 

Write for Dealer and OEM prices. 

BASF 5" or 8" 10/2.00 20/195 1 

NEW BASF Qualimetric Disks also in stock, 
Wabash 5" ss/sd 10/1 80 50/ 1 75 1 

Wabash 5" ss/dd 10/2.00 50/195 1 

Wabash 8" ss/sd 10/2 00 50/195 



00/ 1.95 
00/ 2 75 
00/ 2 06 
00/ 2 65 



00/185 

00/1 70 
00/190 
00/ 1 90 



We stock MAXELL DISKS 

Write for dealer and OEM prices. 

Disk Storage Pages 1 for $5 Hub Rings 50 tor $6 
Disk Library Cases 8"— 300 5"— 2 25 
Head Cleaning Kits 1 1 

CASSETTES— AGFA PE-611 PREMIUM 

C-10 10/61 50/ 58 100/ 50 

C-30 10/85 50/82 100/70 

DATASHIELD BACKUP POWER SOURCE 225 

Battery back up Uninterruptible Power Supply with surge and 
noise filtering. The answer to your power problems 

Zenith ZVM-121 Green Phosphor Monitor 98 

BMC 1 2A 1 2" Green Monitor 80 

VOTRAX Personal Speech System 280 

VOTRAX Type-N-Talk 160 
VOICE BOX Speech Synthesizer (Apple or Atari) 

CompuServe Subscription (5 hours free) 32 

Brother HR-1 5 Daisy Wheel Printer 475 

Prowriter Parallel Printer 379 

Panasonic 1090 Printer with Correspondence Mode 389 

USI CompuMOD 4 R F Modulator 39 

Daisywriter 2000 with 48K buffer + cable 1 150 
Many printers available (Gemini- Star. Brother, OKI. etc) 
We Stock AMDEK Monitors 

AmdekDXY- 100 Plotter 600 
A P Products 15% OFF 

Watanabe Intelligent Plotter 990 6-pen 1290 

BROOKS 6 Outlet Surge Suppressor/Noise Filter 54 
We stock Electrohome Monitors 

Synertek SYM-1 Microcomputer 189 



Panasonic TR-120M1P 12" Monitor (20 MHz) 
Panasonic CT-160 Dual Mode Color Monitor 



149 
285 



USI Video Monitors— Green or AMBER 20 MHz ht-res. 
Dealer and OEM inquiries invited 

Yemitm I data 

I systems 

Z29 Terminal (VT100. VT-52, ADM3A. 

Hazl 500 compatible) 680 

ZT-1 intelligent Communications Terminal 369 

Z100 1 6-rjit/8-bit Systems in stock CALL 

We stock entire Zenith line 




ATARI" 

SPECIALS 



WE STOCK ENTIRE LINE— write for prices. 



Atari 1 200 
Voice Box 
FROGGER 

Thorn EMI Software 
EduFun Software 



499 
100 
25 



QIX 

Anchor Modem — Atari 
Atari Graphics (Compute!) 
First Book of Atari 
APX Software 



34 
79 
11 
II 



215-822-7727 

252 Bethlehem Pike 
Colmar. PA 1891 5 



A B Computers 



WRITE FOR CATALOG. Add $1 50 per order for United Parcel 
We pay balance of UPS surface shipping charges on all prepaid orders 
(add extra for mail. APO/FPO. air) Prices include cash discount. 
Regular prices slightly higher Prices sub|ect to change 



Circle 5 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 533 



S-1 00 COLOR 

GRAPHICS CONTROLLER BOARD 

Using NEC 7220 Graphics Display Controller 

One board.single jumper configurable for 8-color mode 
or monochrome mode For color, configures to 3 planes 
of 32K bytes for output to R-G-B TTL monitors For 
monochrome to a single large 96K image plane 

For use with standard TTL monitors with separate syncr- 
onization; R-G-B or monochrome. 15.75 KHz honz . 60 
Hz vert. A composite output is available on the board for 
no-interlace monochrome monitors. 

Select positive or negative sync - Each bit (pixel) is 
individually addressable - Built in algorithms for arcs, 
lines, rectangles, area fill - Light pen input - 1x to 16x 
zoom - Occupies two contiguous addresses on the sys- 
tem I/O bus - Interlace or non-interlace modes 

Programmable display window: 640x408 interlaced 
color, or 51 2x51 2 interlaced color, or 640x240 non-inter 
laced color and monochrome, or 640x460 interlaced 
monochrome, and others 

Using pan techniques enables viewing image areas lar- 
ger than the display window most likely in non-mterlace 
or monochrome applications, or when zoomed 

This is an extremely versatile, cost effective 
$580 graphics controller for personal, home, and 
small business computers. 

S450 for partially stuffed board with less memory for 
monochrome - upgrade later. 

PIXELTRONICS 

1050 Tulip Way 

Palatine. Illinois, 60074 

(312)359-1442 



FILE DIET 



ARCHIVE 

Archive files for long term storage. Simplify 
daily file back-up. Reduce file size. Shrink 
directory listings -ALL with ARCHIVE! Croup 
files together into ONE archive file and: 

• Add or Delete files 

• Extract copies of files 

• Print files to screen or printer 

• Table of Contents- by file name, by date, 
by order stored 

Easy To Use. Two operating modes- menu OR 
single line command. Menu mode prompts 
for a selection. $65 

COMPAC 

Stop wasting file space! COMPAC reduces file 

size 10-40%. Usable with any file type -ASCII 

or binary. Store files in compacted form. 

Decompact the file when ready to use. $35 

Send for (ree brochure 

" Please add S2.U0 for shipping and handling. 

Forth? IBM- PC running PC-DOS or CP/M 



ju 



SEXTANT SYSTEMS 

P.O. Box 251,Dept. B 
Holmdel NJ 07733 
(201) 671-7670 



P ANNIVERSARY 
CHRISTMAS SPECIAL 

• DRAWING FOR A FREE • 



grapple 



m 



^ 



GARDEN OF EDEN 

COMPUTERS 

1 3147 Cedar Streat 

Westminster. CA 92683 

MAlt ORDERS ONLY 

714-894-9528 

24 Hours - ? Days 

Hayes Smartmodem 
\^1 200 BD RS 232 $479.00^1 




FOR DETAILS& OUR FREE PRICE LIST 
CALL, WRITE OR USE R/S# 



Circle 490 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 491 on inquiry card. 



Circle 173 on inquiry card. 



ATTENTION DEALERS 

Earn more profit with our 
professional accounting 
programs that operate on CP/M 1 
MP/M 2 , compatible systems 
including TurboDOS 3 & 
MmmOST* 

1. MULTIUSER w/ record & File lock 

2. MULTI-COMPANY w/G/L consolidation 

3. MULTIPLEA/R, A/P, & Inv. 

4. CATS-3 levels of User help 

5. OUTSTANDING DOCUMENTATION 

6. FULLY INTEGRATED w/single source 
entry, or stand alone. 

COUGAR MOUNTAIN 
SOFTWARE, Inc. 

10 S. Latah Box 6886 

Boise, Idaho 83707 

208-344-2540 

TM: 1 & 2 Digital Research 
3 Software 2000, 4 TelcVideo 



RL1* 



FAR THE DCOT 

RELATIONAL 

DATABASE 

MANAGEMENT 

SYSTEM FOR YOUR 

MM 00 Vita, Matter Cent, Check, COD 

J F ELECTRIC CO. 

PO BOX 37236 

OAK PARK Ml 48237 

313 545 0335 



PC 



•TRADEMARK 
PC IS " OF IBM 
RL1 IS OF ABW 



FOR 
YOUR 



PC 



THE RELATIONAL 



DATABASE 

MANAGEMENT SYSTEM that's 

BEST »™ *RL1 



S-100 COLOR GRAPHICS 



WQ(§R®35>BQffll 

THE ORIGINAL TMS9918A GRAPHICS BOARD 

• Field-proven board meets IEEE-696 standard; fully socketed 
with solder masks, silkscreen and gold contact fingers. 

• Prioritized display with backdrop and pattern planes plus 32 
sprite planes; each pixel in a plane can he colored or transparent. 

• Three graphics and one text display mode; maximum graphics 
resolution is 256H x 192V in 16 colors. 

• Composile video output 

• On-hoard 16K RAM is separate from system memory 

• Vertical retrace interrupt for real time clock capability. 

• 0-4 wait states for use with fast MPUs 

• All board options are DIP switch selectable. 

• Professional quality documentation with BASIC demonstration 
programs and Tl's TMS9918A manual 

• Exclusive Graphics Editor 

available on 8" SSSO ,.,..,„ ooro . 

CP/M-compatiDle diskette SUMMER SPECIAL! 

$179.95* 

(A & T) 
ORDER DESK 

Corporation l-eoo-237-8400 t>t 440 

6363 Poplar Ave • Suite 106 Technical Inquiries; 
Memphis. TN 38119 (90H-682-4054 

•Price includes MICROSPRITE with documentation Graphics 
Editor diskette — 59 95 Manual- $19 95 Bare board -$59 95 
UPS ground -$2.00, UPS air — S400. COD— $1 50 Foreign 
add $15 00, VISA S MC welcome, TN add 6% 

DEALER AND OEM INQUIRIES INVITED 



rUcfoDynamfct 






Circle 492 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 217 on inquiry card. 



Circle 273 on inquiry card. 



•^1 IBM PC 
> SOFTWARE 



Let Your Computer. . . 

Write Its Own Programs! 

FAST FILE, an applications 
program generator, actually 
develops finished, usable ap- 
plication programs in a matter 
of minutes. 

Simple to operate, FAST FILE 
can even be used by people 
who know very little about 
computers. No programming 
knowledge required! 

iLi DHD.In? 

W : \Wi\ 7777 Leesburg Pike 
g-ll ^gJ8 j Falls Church, VA 22043 
(703) 556-0950 



FREE SOFTWARE for the 
KAYPRO 2 or VECTOR 3 & 4 

Many games, and other program* are in public domain. 
We have 5 inch copies from 90 volume CPMUGt library. 
Many volumes have over 20 programs or 180 kilobytes! 
Kaypro 2 or Vector 314 DD dish copies just $12 per volume 
Osborne or Xerox S20 SD disk copies tor S16 per volume 
Price includes disk(s) postage. Calif add 6 : ■, tax. 
(Asia. Europe air mail, include $1.60 plus $ 40 per disk.) 

The 90 volume library includes: 

"0 FIND.COM and CPMUG.ALL, catalog disk with title search 

03 EBASIC games, 35 all-lime favorite BASIC programs 

*5 EBASIC computer by Gordon Eubanks. use with =3 above 

112 PILOT programming, early version 

"21 Startrek and other games, requires MBASIC 

>23 STOIC slack language, similiar to FORTH 

"20 Simple ALGOL compiler with games 

«37 Arithmetic CAI. games, requires CBASIC 

«40 MASTER CATALOG program tor a disk library 

"41 HAM radio programs, requires MBASIC 

143. 044. and *45 Osborne business, requires CBASIC 

"50 PASCAL compiler written in PASCAL 

"55 or 057 Original or extended adventure game 

M60 A 6502 simulator runs on Z80 

=66 HELP for novices on BASIC. CPM, PASCAL, etc. 

"79 SMODEM37 program tor telecommunications 

«84 MODEM756 newest Ward Christensen MODEM 7 

(includes patched M7K.COM for Kaypro 2 ready to go) 
(No representations implied on any public domain software ) 

Lisl of 90 volumes tor S2, or free with order of 3 volumes 
Check/MO/VISA/Maslercard. Specify which disk format' 
Phone orders 9 am to 9 pm PST Monday-Saturday. 

Sheepshead Software™ 

P.O. Box 486 

Boonville, CA 95415 

(707)463-1833 

•Trademark of the CP/M Users Group. New York. NY. 



SUPER-FAST! 



Relocating Macro 

ASSEMBLER 
$169.95 

Directly generates COM. HEX, or REL files. 
Flexible REL format allows external oytes and 
words with complete math operations on them 
(Microsoft format optional). Features Zilog 
mnemonics with nested macros, conditionals 
and include fifes. Unique one-pass design 
generates compact intermediate code which is 
then processed to resolve forward references. 
yielding tremendous time savings. Complete 
listing, symbol table and cross-reference output 
may be sent to any device. The perfect tool for 
assembly language programming. Linker in- 
cluded Manual only — $30 For Z80 CP/M and 
TRS-80 



-S"L«_ 



Systems- 



1622 NORTH MAIN ST. • BUTLER, PA 16001 • (41!) 262-0864 



Snipping 53 US 
Z80. CP M TRS- 



17 pa ■ 6% Ctaaek. mo. visa m c C o d 

enter aria OEM inquiries iiwupQ 

5 ol Zilog Digilal Research Tandy Coip 



Circle 494 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 367 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 372 on Inquiry card- 



wabash 



for 
as 

low 
as 



diskettes 

$1.29 each! 

Now get Wabash Quality at a CE Price 

For over 1 7 years, Wabash has been making high quality 
and dependable computer products. Wabash diskettes 
are made to provide error-free performance on your com- 
puter system because every diskette has been totally and 
hypercritically tested. Since you can now buy Wabash 
computer products directly from CE, the world's largest 
distributor of magnetic media, you can now get maximum 
savings on every order. You can even order toll-free. 

New Wabash Six Year Warranty 

The quality of Wabash diskettes is stressed throughout 
the entire manufacturing process. After coating, all Wabash 
diskettes go through a unique burnishing process that 
gives each diskette a mirror-smooth appearance. Wabash 
then carefully applies a lubricant that is specially form- 
ulated to increase diskette life. Then, to keep out foreign 
particles, a unique heat seal bonds the jacket and liner 
together to help prevent contamination. After 1 00% hyper- 
critical testing and certification, Wabash then packages 
each diskette, (except bulk pack) in a super strong and 
tear resistant Tyvek® evelope. The final Wabash product is 
then shrink-wrapped to insure cleanliness and reduce 
contamination during shipment. Wabash diskettes are so 
very reliable that Wabash now offers a six year warranty in 
case of defects in materials or workmanship on all diskettes 
purchased directly from Communications Electronics. 

New.. .Wabash Diskette Duplication Services 

Communications Electronics has teamed up with Wabash to 
provide a single-source solution for the diskette duplication 
requirements of software developers, OEM's and distributors. 
All service is in-house, to give you fast, dependable service. In 
most cases, delivery can be completed in five days. Whether 
you require 100, 1,000, or 10,000 copies per week, call CE 
first for a no obligation price quote. For additional information, 
please write us on your letterhead with your requirements. 

SAVE ON WABASH DISKETTES 

Product Description 

8" SSSD IBM Compatible (1 28 B/S, 26 Sectors) 

8" SSSD Shugart Compatible, 32 Hard Sector 

8" SSDD IBM Compatible (128 B/S, 26 Sectors) 

8" DSDD Soft Sector (Unformatted) 

8" DSDD Soft Sector (256 B/S, 26 Sectors) 

8" DSDD Soft Sector (5 12 B/S, 15 Sectors) 

8" DSDD Soft Sector (1 024 B/S, 8 Sectors) 

5V«" SSSD Soft Sector w/Hub Ring 

5'A" Same as above, but bulk pack w/o envelope 

5'A" SSSD 10 Hard Sector w/Hub Ring 

5'A" SSSD 1 6 Hard Sector w/Hub Ring 

5'/4" SSDD Soft Sector w/Hub Ring 

5'A" Same as above, but bulk pack w/o envelope 

5'A" SSDD 10 Hard Sector w/Hub Ring 

5'A" SSDD 16 Hard Sector w/Hub Ring 

5'A" DSDD Soft Sector w/Hub Ring 

5'A" Same as above, but bulk pack w/o envelope 

5'A" DSDD 10 Hard Sector w/Hub Ring 

5'A" DSDD 16 Hard Sector w/Hub Ring 

5'A" SSQD Soft Sector w/Hub Ring (96 TPI) 

5'A" DSQD Soft Sector w/Hub Ring (96 TPI) 

5'A" Tyvek Diskette Envelopes - Price per 1 00 Pack 

SSSD = Single Sided Single Density; SSDD = Singlt 
DSDD = Double Sided Double Density; SSQD = Sini 
DSQD = Double Sided Quad Density; TPI = Tracks per inch. 

Circle 82 on inquiry card. 



Part* 


CE quant. 
100 price 
per disk (S) 


F111 


1.89 


F31A 


1.89 


F131 


2.39 


F14A 


2.99 


F144 


2.99 


F145 


2.99 


F147 


2.99 


M11A 


1.49 


M11AB 


1.29 


M41A 


1.49 


M51A 


1.49 


M13A 


1.79 


M13AB 


1.59 


M43A 


1.79 


M53A 


1.79 


M14A 


2.69 


M14AB 


2.49 


M44A 


2.69 


M54A 


2.69 


M15A 


2.59 


M16A 


3.69 


TE5 


12.00 


Sided Double Density; 
e Sided Quad Density; 




Quantity Discounts Available 

Wabash diskettes are packed 1 
disks to a carton and 1 cartons 
to a case. The economy bulk 
pack is packaged 1 00 disks to a 
case without envelopes or labels. 
Please order only in increments 
of 100 units for quantity 100 
pricing. With the exception of 
bulk pack, we are also willing to 
accommodate your smaller or- 
ders. Quantities less than 100 
units are available in increments 
of 10 units at a 20% surcharge 
above our 1 00 unit price. Quan- 
tity discounts are also available. 
Order 500 or more disks at the same time and deduct 1 %; 1 ,000 or 
more saves you 2%; 2,000 or more saves 3%; 5,000 or more saves 
4%; 1 0,000 or more saves 5%; 25,000 or more saves 6%; 50,000 
or more saves 7%, 1 00,000 or more saves 8%, 500,000 or more 
saves 9% and 1 ,000,000 or more disks earns you a 1 0% discount 
off our super low quantity 1 00 price. Almost all Wabash diskettes 
are immediately available from CE. Our efficient warehouse 
facilities are equipped to help us get you the quality product you 
need, when you need it. If you need further assistance to find the 
flexible disk that's right for you, call the Wabash compatibility 
hotline. Dial toll-free 800-323-9868 and askfor your compatibility 
representative. In Illinois or outside the U.S. dial 312-593-6363 
between 9 AM to 4 PM Central time. 

Buy Wabash Diskettes with Confidence 

To get the fastest delivery from CE of your Wabash computer 
products, we recommend you phone your order directly to our 
Computer Products Division and charge it to your credit card. Be 
sure to calculate your price using the CE prices in this ad. Written 
purchase orders are accepted from approved government agen- 
cies and most well rated firms at a 30% surcharge for net 30 
billing. For maximum savings, your order should be prepaid. All 
sales are subject to availability, acceptance and verification. All 
sales are final. All prices are in U.S. dollars. Prices, terms and 
specifications are subject to change without notice. Out of stock 
items will be be placed on backorder automatically unless CE is 
instructed differently. Minimum prepaid order is $50.00. Mini- 
mum purchase order$200.00. All shipments are F.O. B. Ann Arbor, 
Michigan U.S.A. No COD's please. Non-certified and foreign 
checks require bank clearance. 

For shipping charges add $8.00 per case or partial 
case of 100 8-inch flexible disks or $6.00 per case or 
partial case of 100 5 1 /4-inch mini-diskettes for U.P.S. 
ground shipping and handling in the continental U.S.A. 

Mail orders to: Communications Electronics, Box 1 002, 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106 U.S.A. If you have a Visa 
or Master Card, you may call and place a credit card order. 
Order toll-free in the U.S. Dial 800-521-441 4. In Canada, 
order toll-free by calling 800-265-4828. If you are outside 
the U.S. or in Michigan dial 31 3-994-4444. Telex anytime 
81 0-223-2422. Order your Wabash diskettes today. 

Copyright e 1983 Communications Electronics" Ad #1112483 



(MasterCard] 





Order Toll-Free! 
800-521-4414 

In Michigan 313-994-4444 

TM 



wabash 

error-free 
diskettes 




COMMUNICATIONS 
ELECTRONICS" 

Computer Products Division 

818 Phoenix □ Box 1002 □ Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106 U.S.A. 
Order TOLL-FREE 800-521 -441 4 or outside U.S.A. 31 3-994-4444 

BYTE July 1983 535 



FAST 

Factory 
Floppy Disc 
Drive 
Repair 

Specialists in the repair of: 

Shugart 
Tandon 
PerSci 



i. Inc. 



12624 Daphne Avenue 
Hawthorne. CA 90250 
(213)777-7536 
TWX 910-321-4448 




Maxell Floppy Disks 

The Mini-Disks 
with maximum quality 





Dealer inquiries 
invited CO.D's 
accepted. Call 
FREE (800) 235-4137. 

PACIFIC EXCHANGES 

100 Foothill Blvd.. San Luis 
San Luis Obispo. CA 93401 
In Cal. call (800) 592-5935 or 
(805)543-1037. 



EPSON® 

RIBBON 
CARTRIDGES 

MX 70/80 

$5.25 „ 

$60.<"/ooi 




MX 100 

*9.95„ 

S108.°°/ m» 



Circle 315 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 310 on inquiry card. 



EPSON 

MX100-ZIP 
PACK-IRELOAD' 

$6.50 EO 

$72. 00 /doi. 

PLUS OTHER MAJOR BRAND NAMES 
AVAILABLE 

DWICHT COMPANY, INC. 

15565 Northland Drive 
Suite 804 West 
Southfield, Ml 48075 
(3131 569-3218 



Circle 147 on Inquiry card. 



680,00 

W 
CROSS ASSEMBLER 

FOR CP/M-80 $ 260 

MOTOROLA SYNTAX MACHOS 

LINKAGE EDITOR CONDITIONALS 



STRUCTURED 

Ouelo 

843 NW 54lh 

Stalllc, Wa. 98107 



WRITTEN IN C 



(20fi)784-8OI8 



Circle 345 on inquiry card. 



Wasting Money! We Have the World's Most 
Cost Effective Development System. 

• Includes Hexklt 1.0, a powerful 
- 100% machine code editor/ 

- 'J : 'Mm debugger utility program that 

*■¥ £<*■' makes coding tor 8-blt Micros a 

gsif r snap. 

• Program from Commodore 
-asSSS* 3 VIC-20 keyboard Into built-in 
>*"^ 4K ROM emulator 

•" ■ Jumper to target ROM socket 

• Test programs in circuit 

• Built-in EPROM programmer 
and power supply 

• Burns & runs EPROMS for 
the Commodore VIC-20, too 

• Comprehensive manuals 

• Fits EXPANSION PORT 

PROMQUEEN CARTRIDGE ONLY $199 

Send for Free Brochure 

Distributed In U.S by Arbutui Total Soft, Int.. 4202 Meridian. Suite 214. 

Bellingnam WA 98226 Phone 800-426-1253. in Washington 206-733-0404 
Distributed in Canarjc by IBC/Dlitrluutlon Canada, 4047 Cambie St 

Vancouver, BC V5Z 2x9 Pnone 604-879-7812 

VISA AND MASTERCARD ACCEPTED 

tt commodore approved product 



Prices 
PROMQUEEN 64 
8K board with 1 EPROM 
16K board with 1 EPROM 
8K board with 1 EPROM-C64 



U.S. 
S2M.00 

S29.SS 

s.39.85 
138.85 



CAN 
1398.00 
S39.95 

54985 
$49.95 



Now... You Can Monitor 

7 Most Important 
RS-232 Interface Lines 




Made in America 



RS-232-INTERFACE TESTER 

connects in series with any RS-232 interface. LED's clearly 
display status of 7 functions: transmit data, receive data, 
request lo send, clear to send, data set ready, carrier detect, 
data terminal ready. Requires no power; may be left in per- 
manently Satisfaction guaranteed ORDER NOW! Only $39.95 
plus $1.75 for postage and handling, (IL res. add 5% sales 
tax); we accept MC, Visa. FREE: illustrated catalog of problem 
detecting equipment. Phone 815/539-5827. Make checks 
payable to: 



electronics 

Box 475 B, MENDOTA, IL 61342 



Circle 41 on inquiry card. 



SHIELDED DATA CABLES 

Help Protect Your Signals With Shielded Data Cable 
EIA RS 232 Shielded Cable Specify end gender, length & pm 
interconnects, up to 9 conductors S11.00 + .40/(1. 

TERMINALS 

Suggesien Sal* 
Hazeitine — Esprit Systems List Nh 

ESPRIT I full fealured terminal w/green screen $595 $499 
ESPRIT II terminal w/detachable keyboard $645 $565 

ESPRIT III Televideo 950 emulator $895 $775 

LOW SPEED MODEMS 

"#• 
Novation "Call us about Appleeat modems" w 

J-CAT 0-300 baud Direct connect modem $149 $109 

ACOUSTIC 0-300 baud Acoustic conned modem $189 $135 
AUTOCAT 0-300 baud Direct connect modem $249 $179 

103 SMARTCAT 0-300 baud auto ans modem $249 $189 

HIGH SPEED MODEMS 

103/212 SMARTCAT 0-300/1200 baud modem $595 $449 

212AUTOCAT 0-300 baud/1200 baud modem $695 $565 

UNIVERSAL DATA SYSTEMS 

21 2LP Telco powered 1 200 baud modem $495 $395 

PRINTERS 



OKI-DATA uL82A9V f '" carnage 120 cps printer 

uL83A 15" carriage 120 cps printer 
uL92P (parallel) 9Vr " carnage near letter quality 
uL92S (senat) 97? carriage near letter quality 
uL93P (parallel) 15' carriage near teller quality 
U.L93S (serial) 15" carnage near letter quality 
Tractor for uL 82/92 

CenilitM cfiecfc money arder COD 
postage a"0 nartrjirng - Add SIO 00 



F 8 Ml Clemens Mrcn,gan 48044 



$549 $399 

S899 $640 

$699 $525 

$799 $599 

$1249 $889 

$1349 $969 

$50 

Mastercard Add ib 00 per orfler lor 

" prices in U S dollars Micn.ga" 



ELECTROSOMCS 



P Box 1141 • Ml Clemens Ml 48044 • (313) 286-6969 
Monday -Friday 9 a m -5 o m EST* Saturday til Noon 




DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 
E1/.II Specify Soft 
•# /•» 10 or 16 Sectors prices/10 

MD525 1 side/dbl dens $24.90 

MD550 2 sides/dbl dens 35.00 

MD577 1 side/quad 96tpi 33.75 

M D557 2 sides/quad 96tpi 44.50 

8» 
Specify Soft or 32 Sector 
FD34-9000 1 side/sgl dens 30.00 

FD34-8000 1 side/dbl dens 33.00 

DD34-4001 2 sides/dbl dens 41.00 

Checks-VISA-MC-C.O D./Add $2 Shipping 
Call or write for our discount catalog. 

LYBEN COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

27204 Harper Ave., St. Clair Shores. Ml 48081 
Phone: (313) 777-7780 



DATALIFE • THE NAME IS THE PROMISE 
THE WARRANTY IS THE PROOF 



Circle 241 on inquiry card. 



m 



$$ Printers $$ 



EPSON 

MX 80 CALL 

MX 80 FT III CALL 

MX 100 FT III CALL 

FX 80 CALL 

STAR MICRONICS 

Gemini 10 329 

Gemini 15 509 

C. IOTH 

8510 Prowriter Parallel 419 

8510 Prowriter Serial 559 

1 550 Parallel 659 

Letter Quality 

Smith Corona TP-1 $549 

Comrex CRI 825 

"Other Printers Available" 

Shipping and handling add 3%. CA residents add 6%. 

THE COMPUTER STORE 

3941 -B S. Bristol St. Dept. 345 

Santa Ana, CA 92704 

714-662-1425 



Circle 34 on inquiry card. 



Circle 156 on inquiry card. 



Circle 99 on inquiry card. 



©BASIS 



ACE 1000 
$39900 

With Color s 949 00 



APPLE CAT II 


295.00 


APPLE CAT 212 


295.00 


J-CAT 


149.00 


AUTO CAT 212 


599.00 


D-CAT MODEM 


179.00 


CAT 


169.00 


SMART CAT 103/212 


479.00 





TWO DRIVES 
128K; 3.0 CP/M 

DIAGNOSTIC CONTROLLER 
CALL FOR LOWEST PRICES 



SOFTWARE 



MONITORS 



PRINTERS 



HARDWARE 




ASCII EXPRESS II 
AZTEC 

| BANK STREET WRITER 
(AP, AT) 

I BEAGLE BROS 
BPI GL. AR. INV 
CP/M 3 (Basis) 
CYDEX 
D BASE II 

FACEMAKER (AP, IBM) 
FLIGHT SIMULATOR (IBM) 39 00 
HOME ACCOUNTANT 

APPLE 49 00 

IBM 109 00 

INFOSTAR 289 00 

LEARNING COMPANY $Call 

MAILMERGE (APPLE) 99 00 

PEACHTREE SCall 

PASCAL/MT * 86 (IBM) 329 00 
PFS (AP. IBM) SCall 

SUPERCALC 199 00 

ULTAMA II 47 00 

VOLKSWRITER (IBM) 149 00 

WORDHANDLER II 129.00 

WORDSTAR 279 00 



BMC 12" Green AU 


88 00 


BMC 12" Green EU 


129 00 


BMC 9191 Color 


299 00 


Quadchrom 




Hi-Res RGB 


499 00 


Taxan 12" 




Amber or Green 


149 00 


Taxan RGB III 


549 00 



USI Pi-3 12" Amber 
USI P1-1 9" Green 



1 69 00 
89 00 



m MOUNTAIN 

L— 1 COMPUTER 



A-D - D A 


269 00 


CPS CARD 


159 00 


CABLES 


SCall 


CLOCK 


195 00 


EXPANSION CHASSIS 


559 00 


MUSIC SYSTEM 


299 00 


RAMPLUS 32K 


145 00 


ROMWRITER 


145 00 


SUPERTALKER 


1 49 00 



BMC 
C-1TOH 

Prowriter 8510AP 

DTC 380Z 
EPSON 
GEMINI 10 
GEMINI 15 
OKIDATA 
SEIKOSHA GP100 



459 00 | 
1195.00 

SCall 
329 00 | 
499 00 

SCall 
239 00 



) COLUMN 
ENHANCER II 
FUNCTION STRIP 
INVERSE VIDEO 
ULTRATERM 
PSIO 
SOFTWARE 



1 99 00 | 
119 00 
59 00 i 
19 00 | 
SCall 
SCall 
SCall 



APPLESURANCE 
DISPATCHER 

(SERIAL INTERFACE) 119 00' 
HAYES 

SMARTMODEM 1200 529 00 

MICROMODEM II 269 00 

LEGEND 64K 299 00 

I EGEND 128K w'Software 359 00 

MICROBUFFER II 16K 329 00 
MICROSOFT 

16K RAM CARD 59 00 

SOFTCARD 239 00 

| MX PLUS (Finger Print) 45 00 

PAYMAR L CASE Rev 7 20.00 

RIBBONS 

EPSON MX 80 7 00 

EPSON MX 100 11 00 

OKI 82 83 GEMINI 3 95 

SMARTERM II 149.00 

SNAPSHOT 99 00 

WIZARD HPO 16K 149 00 | 

WILDCARD 119 00 

SCARP II 149 00 



KENSINGTON 



MICROWARE 




SYSTEM SAVER 



• Surge Suppressic 

• Dual Outlet 

• UL. Listed 

• Fits Apple 
Stand 



$65 



TJ Verbatim 16K RAM CARD game I/O 



EH 5 


1 4" SS t)D SS (100) 


239 00 


B 5 


' 4" SS DD SS 110) 


25 95 


1 


SS DD SS (101 


39 00 


i 


DS DD SS 110] 


45 00 | 



II 



DRIVES 



1 4th DIMENSION 
1 MICRO SCI A2 
1 MICRO SCI A3 


A40. A 


70 


249 00 

249 00 

SCall 



Compatible with 
DOS 3 3. CP'M 
Visicalc PASCAL 
2 YR WARRANTY 



$ 39 



00 






[ 64K 


S319 J 


128K 


459 1 


V-C Expand 80 


99 "I 







TG 

JOYSTICK (IBM] 

JOYSTICK II ■ 

JOYSTICK III 

PADDLES 

SELECTA-PORT 

TRACKBALL 
KRAFT 

JOYSTICK 
(AP IBM TRSl 

JOYSTICK (AT COM) 

PADDLES 
1 PARADISE PORT 
PADDLE-APPLE 



45 00 
40 00 
45 00 
29 00 
47 00 
59 00 



47 00 
15 00 | 
35 00 
24 95 
24 95 



SMITH CORONA 




LETTER QUALITY 
DAISY WHEEL 



'569 



00 



QUADRAMt 



OUADBOARD 64K 
MICROFAZER 
QUAD 512 • (64K] 
OUADBOARD II 64K 



299 00 

SCall 

229 00 

299 00 



POWER STRIP 



W/SURGE 
PROTECTION 

$2500 



No Charge (or Credit Cards 

|» Mm S4.00 Shipping Charge 

I* Purchase Orders Welcome 
Call lor Terms First 



HOURS. MON-FRI 8AM . 

PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE-ALL ORDERS FOB SAN JOSE 




COMPUTER 

DISCOUNT 

PRODUCTS 



-5PM - SAT & SUN 10AM-4PM 



MAIL ORDERS & RETAIL STORE 

860 S Winchester Blvd 
San Jose. CA 95128 

(408) 985-0400 



Circle 93 on inquiry card. 



5100 GRAPHIC5 

GRAPH-10 IEEE/S-100 BOARD $4^9 

* 6^0 X 480 monochrome pixels, read, write, 
complement operations, absolute & relative 
addressing modes, meet unit screen. 

* 12k byte on board firmware provides more 
than 200 powreful commands including arc, 
cycle, vector, rectangle and dot lines. 

* Full ASCII character set with different 
sizes and rotations. 

* Build in light pen and screen hard copy 
interface (EPSON MX-80 printer). 

* Only two i/O ports link to host computer. 

* Composite and TTL video plus H.V.sync. 

* Assembled and tested with full document. 



GRAPH-101 DISK SOFTWARE 



. - $39 



* Complete package including line, bar, pie 
chart, 3D surface. 

* Graph edit and save, load commands. 

* Source files (X.C0M and X.BAS) provided. 

* CP/M-80 8" SSSD disk. 

GLO P.O.Box 8625 

laboratories ROCKVILLE, KD 20856 

Check or money order plus $5 shipping. 
CP/M is trademark of Digital Research. 



Circle 261 on inquiry card. 




Z8 PROGRAMMABLE 
LOGIC CONTROLLER 

16K Static Memory(6116)/(2716) 
9 Parallel Ports (3-8255A) 

Bare Board $50.00 

Kit $224.00 

A. & T $274.00 

To Order (313) 525-1840 

MICRO ADE 

29554 Rosslyn 
Garden City. Ml 48135 



STOt* LOSING MONEY OS IU1K-MURK SEHVICES! 



» » » LOGICSIM « ♦ « 







CP/M based 
professional 
logic 
simulator 



* I nr i nymtti my work stations 

* I or uaic-itrriii. custom and all other If designers 

* lor digital system engineers 

Nine logic stales, abilily lo simulate TTL/NMOS/CMOS/PMOS logic. ROM's 
and RAM's. Ihree-slaic and transfer gates, »ifed-or'ed nodes, propagation 
delays, spike and race analysis, expandable pin-number based TTL macro library 
plus numerous other features make LOGICSIM comparable to industry 
standard simulators. 



Tr> it now. Send us a $30 check for LOGICSIM demo copy and 
I'ser's Manual. 



Please specify 8" IBM 3740/ 5" APPLE II ( 13/16 lector I. CP/M based 
56K tnWK systems (APPLE'S with CP/M card). Introductory price S276. 



For more information, call |408) 578-80%, Or write: 

E/Z ASSOCIATES. 5589 Siarcrest Dr., San Jose. CA 95123 



Circle 149 on inquiry card. 



BASF 

DISKETTES 



mi 



BASF Diskettes at compe- 
titive price. Call TOLL FREE 
(800) 235-4137 for prices and 
information. Visa and Master 
Card accepted. 



PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 




100 Foothill Blvd 
San Luis Obispo. CA 
93401 (InCal call 
(80S) 543-1037 ) 




Powerful — Economical — Professional 

Peripherals for your Apple II-"- 
A/D 1 2-Bit. 1 6 Channel £450.00 

• Simple CPU Selection of Channels AD 1 2 16 °2 

• Range t 1 0. t 5, ± 2 5, * 5. + 1 

• High-Speed 25 /j sec Conversion 

• Full Software Support — Disk or PROM 

• Adjustable Bipolar Reference 



Ultra ROM Board/Editor 

• 32K of Bank-Switchable 
ROM Space 

• Powerful G.P L E (Global Program 
Line Editor! in Firmware 

• Totally Transparent — Remove or 
reload with a few keystrokes — 
without Disk! 

• Applesoft-)!* Extensions including 
"IF. THEN, ELSE." 

6842 Vahean Ave 
VanNuys. CA 91406 

01319B9-12M 



$190 00 

APB 102 



r\ 



P 



Circle 27 on Inquiry card. 






B 



Qc 



% 



Low, direct prices • Fast, direct service 



2532-450 $4" 

2716-450 3 69 

2732-450 399 

2764-250 979 

2764-350 8" 

4164-200 4 75 

6116-P3 4 30 

6116-LP-3 5 48 

Add $2 95 shipping to oil orders 

OEM • Quantity discounts available • PQs on 

approval • CO. D. OK • Credit cards • FL residents 

add 5% tax • All new, no surplus, no seconds 

(Prices subject to change. ) 

4920 Cypress St., Suite 100, Tampa, FL 33607 

In FL, and for info., call 813-875-0299 

FOR ORDERS ONLY, 800-237-891 

■w 8AM 5PM EDT 



Circle 259 on inquiry card. 



Circle 310 on inquiry card. 



Circle 167 on inquiry card. 



Cables 

EIA RS 232-C 

Quality cables with immediate 
delivery and low prices. 



Conductor 


Price 


1-4 


$12.00 + .18/ft. 


5-7 


1 2.50 + ,27/ft. 


8-12 


1 3.50 + 33/ft. 


13-16 


14.75+ 44/ft 


17-25 


1 7.00 + .55/ft. 



Specify: Male or female connectors, length of 
cable and pins to be connected. OEM & quantity 
discounts available to qualified customers. On 
prepaid orders add $5.00 for shipping/handling. 
We also supply connector parts, bulk 
cable, IBM, DECCompatable&Centronlc 
cables. 

Communication 
Cable Company 

319 Lcruella Ave. Wayne, PA 1 9087 
215-964-9404 



wabash 

Flexible Diskettes 



6 Year Warranty- 100% Certified 

DELIVERED PRICES 



5V4" $175 



SINGLE SIDE 
SINGLE DENSITY 
48 TPI W/HUB RING 

Picked lOparSotiPtct 



r 



5V4" $010 



5 1 /4" $010 

DOUBLE SIDE ■■ 

DOUBLE DENSITY ^•▼eaCri 
48 TPi W/HUB flINQ 

p*c*»0 TO per Son Pick 



BULK 
SSSD 



1 



40 



BULK 
SSDD 

W/HUB RING 



1 



70 



BULK $«7Q 
DSDD *X 

■ each 



OO.'Case 

White Envelope 

WHUB PING 



Free shipping in continental USA Call for 

quantity discounts. We accept money orders, 

certified checks, VISA and MasterCard. Personal 

checks accepted, but take two weeks to clear bank 

N. D- add 4%. VISA and MC add 3%. 

Software Services'* 

1 326 -25th St. S., Suite D 
Fargo, ND 58103 
(701)280-0121 




CHIPS. 



&DALE T2 



THE INFLATION FIGHTERSl 

41 16 250ns 8/(9.50 100 + 1.05 ea. 

4116 200ns 8/* 10.00 100+ $1.05 ea. 

4116 150ns 8/111.50 I 00 + S1.25 ea. 

41 16 120ns 8/$ 14.50 100+ $1.50 ea. 

4116 120ns 8/915.50 100 + s 1 .50 ea. 

21 ML 300ns 6/110.50 

2114L 200ns 8/U2.00 
•4164 200ns 14.65 ea. 
•4164 150ns $5.10 ea. 
•6116 150ns $4.00 ea. 
•6116 200ns $3.85 ea. 
•6116LP 150ns $4.75 ea. 
•1791 Disk Controller $20.00 

1777 Disk Controller » 17.50 

Z80A, ZBOACTC. Z0OA PIO $ 3.00 ea. 

8253 S4.25 

2716-1 5V 350ns 8/14.25 ea. $5.00 ea. 

2716 5V 450ns $3.00 ea. 
•2732 5V 450ns $3.85 ea. 
•2532 5V 450ns $4.25 ea. 
•2764 5V 300ns 28 pin $9.00 ea. 
•2764 5V 24 pin CALL 
•2564 5V CALL 

••8087 CALL 

68000 CALL 

Allow up to 3 wks. for personal checks to clear. Please include 
phone number. Prices subject to change without notice. Shipping & 
Handling for Chips $3.50, FOB Bellevue. WA. for all else. Wash, 
residents add 6.5% Sales Tax. 

CHIPS 6 DALE 1-206-451-9770 

10655 N.E. 4th St., Suite 400 
Bellevue, WA 98004 



True MAIL ORDER Prices 

With so many so-called Mail Order establishments using toll free" lines, and grandiose advertising, how can you, the customer, expect to 
receive true mail order savings? We have done away with large ads, and free phone lines to offer comparable service passing on the savings to 
you. Our reputation for low prices and satisfaction is outstanding. 



DISKETTES 

'Kangaroo: (w/library case) 

SS/DD $19.35 

DS/DD $28.00 

— 10 yr. Warranty — 

Elephant: 

SS/DD $21.95 

DS/DD $28.95 

Verbatim: 

5%" SS/DD $22.95 

5V4" DS/DD $38.95 

Dysan: 

5W SS/DD $29.95 

5'/4"DS/DD $38.95 

Library Case 5%" $1.75 



MODEMS 

Hayes: 

MicroModem II 

with Terminal Program $285.00 

without Terminal Program $255.00 

Hayes Smartmodem: 

300 Baud $199.00 

1200 Baud $505.00 

Hayes Chronograph $179 00 

Novation: 

J-Cat $104.00 

Applecal II $285.00 

Smartcat 1200 Baud $440.00 

U.S. Robotics: 

300 Baud $165.00 

1200 Baud $459.00 



COMPUTER PRODUCTS 
FOR IBM 

The Ultimate Peripheral 
MONTE CARLO " CARD 

64K $295 00 

$45 per 64K upgrade 

T & G Products: 

Joysticks $42.00 

Trakball $49.00 

BUSINESS 
Visicorp: 

Visidex $180.00 

Visifiles $180.00 

256K Visicalc $180 00 

Visitrend/Plot $225.00 

ENTERTAINMENT: 
Infocom: 

Zork I $27.00 

Zork II $27.00 

Zork III $27.00 



PRINTERS 

Okidata: 

Microline 92 $565.00 

Microline 93 $985.00 

Pacemark 2350 

Parallel $2100 00 

Serial $2200.00 

Pacemark 2410 

Parallel $2400.00 

Serial $2500.00 

Call for prices on the entire line 

of Okidata Printers. 

Call for the New Epson FX Printers. 

TEC/C.ITOH 

Prowriter I Parallel $ 369.00 

Prowriter II Parallel $ 639.00 

F-10 Starwriter $1185.00 

F-10 Printmaster $ CALL 

Brother HRI: $ 795.00 

Smith Corona TPI: $ 539.00 

Star: 
"Gemini 10 and 15 . Call for low prices! 

NEW PRODUCTS 

Commodore 64 $ 374 00 

Panasonic JR200 $ 299.00 

Percom Hard Disk Drives: 

(Apple/IBM/TRS-80) 

5 Megabyte $ 995.00 

10 Megabyte $1295.00 

15 Megabyte $1695.00 

20 Megabyte $2095.00 



TANDON DISK DRIVE 
SPECIAL 

TM-100-2 DS/DD 320K Bytes $245.00 

TM-55 320K Bytes Half Height $239.00 

QuadRam Quadboard 

64K $285.00 

128K $330.00 

192K $375.00 

256K $415.00 

Kraft Products: 

Joysticks $55.00 

Game Paddle $29.00 

Davong Hard Disks 

5 Megabyte $1359.00 

10 Megabyte $1759.00 

15 Megabyte $2159.00 

Maynard Electronics 

Floppy Controllers w/Parallel .$209.00 
Floppy Controllers w/Serial . . . $239.00 



Send orders and inquiries to: 



Tlvl 



Computer Apparatus 

P.O. Box 32063 • Aurora, Colorado 80012 
Telephone Inquiries: (303) 759-9251 

Monday thru Friday — 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Mountain Standard Time) 

We built our reputation on low prices 
for the informed computer user. 



MONITORS 

Amdek: 

Color I $295.00 

Color II $489.00 

300G Green $145.00 

300A Amber $1 55.00 

310G Green $165.00 

31 0A Amber $175.00 

Zenith: 12" Green. $ 99 00 

USI: 12" Amber $159.00 

12" Green $155.00 

"Taxan: Amber $139.00 

PGS: RGB Monitor $ CALL 

BMC: 12" Green $ 80.00 

NEC 1203 Hi Res RGB $589.00 



DISK DRIVES 

Apple: 
Fourth Dimension: 

w/o controller $250.00 

w/ controller $319.00 

Rana Elite I: 

w/o controller $270.00 

w/ controller $339 00 



COMPUTER PRODUCTS 
FOR APPLE 

MBI: 

VIP Graphics Card $119 00 

Appletime ClockCard $ 85 00 

Silicon Valley Systems: 

Final Analysis $149.00 

Word Handler $115.00 

Continental: 

Home Acct $ 49.00 

On-Line: 
Screenwriter II Pro $139.00 

Visicorp: 

Visidex $180.00 

Visifiles $180.00 

Visicalc $180.00 

Visitrend/Plot $225.00 

Stoneware: 

DB Master $149.00 

DB Utility Pak $ 65.00 

T & G Products: 

Joysticks $42.00 

Select-a-Port $42.00 

Game Paddles $28.00 

Davong Hard Disks 

5 Megabytes $1359.00 

10 Megabytes $1759.00 

15 Megabytes $2159.00 

Ram Cards 

Microsoft 16K $75.00 

Generic 16K $60 .00 

CP/M Microsoft Z80 Card $249.00 

80 Column Cards Videx w/soft . .$269.00 



DELIVERIES; 2 - 4 weeks average 
PERSONAL CHECKS: Cashier's check and 

money order will receive shipping preference 
VISA & MASTERCARD: Add 4% to total. 
CATALOG: Send for full pricing details. 

Prices subject to change without notice. 
SHIPPING: UPS add $2 00 plus 

2% of order total 



Circle 91 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 539 



JKl 



Get 

on the 

STICK! 




Forget that mickey mouse input 
device. The KA Stick is a profes- 
sional microprocessor programmable 
joystick operating in ASCII at high 
speed 19.2K baud and up on either 
full RS232 or IEE 488. $479 com- 
plete. Send orders to: 

KA Design Croup 

6300 Telegraph Ave. 

Oakland, CA 94609 (415) 654-6300 



DOUBLE THE STORAGE 
CAPACITY OF YOUR SINGLE 
SIDED FLOPPY DISC DRIVE 

FOR 83.95 

Our innovative new disc will DOUBLE 
your current storage capabilities. Save 
money! Save space! Save time! 

On 5Vt " discs, you can now get 
•COMMODORE-64--> 340K on one disc! 

'APPLE II + > 286K oh one disc! 

•ATARI 800 > 192K on one disc! 

•IBM-PC > 320K on one disc! 

•TRS-80 > 356K on one disc! 

•NEC > 324K on one disc! 

And all of this for less than the cost of two 
of your old discs. Mall or call In your order 
today while supplies last! $3.95 ea., 
$35/10, or $29.95 kit to modify your own. 
MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE! 

SOFTECHNICS 

3212 Beacon Av. S. 

Seattle, Wa. 98144 

(206) 723-4980 

Minimum order $10, + SI 50 shipping. Washington 
residents please add 6% sales tax, Master card /Visa 
welcome. 



5V 4 " DISK DRIVES 



TANDON 

• TIM 100-1 

Single Sided. 40 IRK, 

Single Or Double Density 

• TM 100-2 

Double Sided, 40 TRK/Side 
Single Or Double Density 

CDC 

• 9409 

Double Sided. 40 TRK/Side 
Single Or Double Density 



*179 00 

Free Shipping 

$24900 

Free Shipping 



$24900 

Free Shipping 



Order Toll Free 

1-800-531-5475 (Outside 01 Texas) 

(512) 250-1523 (In Texas) 

"II We Can 'I Ship The Next Working Day. 

We Won't Take The Order." 

MasterCard * VISA * Check 

Texas Residents Add 5% Sales Tax. 



jCompuPdd 



Corp. 



13010 Research Blvd., Suite 101 
Austin, Texas 78750 



Circle 496 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 376 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 87 on inquiry card. 



NEW! NAPLPS 

A NAPLPS Graphics 

Implementation 

Assembler/Interpreter 

* Implements NAPLPS, a powerful 
new sraphics standard 

* Can create graphic figures and 
characters of any size, color and 
shape 

* Easy to use 

* Provides easy introduction to 
graphics, yet versatile in its 
applications 

* Written in C 

* Documentation and source code 
listing provided 

* $119 

CSC/ 1010 Turner Way, Seattle, 
WA 98112 (206) 328-0100 



Circle 393 on Inquiry card. 



I WILL BEAT ANY COMPETITOR'S PRICE 

PROVIDED IT IS NOT BELOW MY COST. 

TRY TO BEAT THESE IC PRICES: 





DYNAMIC RAM 




64K 


200 ns 


$5.25 


64K 


150 ns 


5.35 


64K 


120 ns 


5.90 


16K 


200 ns 
EPROM 


1.35 


2784 


300 ns 


$6.25 


2732 


450 ns 


4.05 


2716 


450 ns 


3.20 


2532 


450 ns 
STATIC RAM 


4.60 


6264LP-15 150 ns 


$60.00 


6116P-3 


150 ns 


4.10 


2114 


200 ns 
Z80A FAMILY 


1.45 


CPU, CTC, or PIO 


$3.39 


DART 




7.99 


DMA or 


SIO/0 


12.50 J 



MasterCard'VISA or UPS CASH COO 

Factory New, Prime Parts 
MICROPROCESSORS UNLIMITED 

24.000 Soutti Peoria Ave 
SEGGS, OK 74421 

(918) 267-4961 




DiscMaster 1000 
Videodisc Interface 

• Enables computer control of laser 
videodisc players 

• Works with any mainframe, mini, or 
microcomputer 

• Standard RS-232C serial interface 

• No modification required to player or 
computer 

• Interactive playback for training, mar- 
keting, exhibition, and data retrieval 

• All cables and connectors included 

• Price: $395 

New Media Graphics Corporation 
139 Main Street 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
617-547-4344 



Circle 277 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 497 on Inquiry card. 



HARD DISK 
ADD ON FOR 



ALTOS SERIES 5 
5-10-20 MB 

Mm 

■ Plug Compatible 

■ Runs with existing Altos 
Software 

■ *CPM, *MPM, *OASIS 
Operating Systems 

■ No Software Modifications 
Required 

•TM Altos, Digital Research 

and Phase One Systems, 

respectively. 5M — $1895.00 



Tri Technology 
Systems Inc. 

P.O. Box 388208 

Chicago, I L 60638 

(312) 442-0698 



Circle 420 on Inquiry card. 



wabash 

When it comes to 

Flexible Disks, nobody 

does it better than 

Wabash. 

MasterCard, Visa Accepted. 
Call Free: (800)235-4137 




PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 

100 Foothill Blvd 
San Luis Obispo. CA 
93401 (InCal call 
(805)543-1037) 



Circle 310 on Inquiry card. 




8051-Based 

Single-Board Computer with 

Monitor/Debugger 

• Versatile - 4 28-pin byte-wide 
sockets; monitor will program 
EEPROMs. 

• Affordable - just $365. 

• Perfect for System Development 
and Educational Applications 

Binary Technology 



P O BOX A-59 • HANOVER NH 03755 • 603 643-2881 



Circle 52 on Inquiry card. 



SPEECH SYNTHESIZERS 



6502 MICROCOMPUTER 



MINI VIDEO 40 X 24 



81-260 "SLIM" 




JBEs Speech Synthesizers use the 
Votrax SO01 Phoneme Synthesizer 
chip. The SC-01 phonetically syn- 
thesizes continuous speech of 
unlimited vocabulary. The SC-01 con- 
tains 64 different phonemes and 4 
levels of inflection accessed by an 8 bit 
code. It requires 10 Bytes per second 
for continuous speech. Both boards 
have an audio amp for direct connec- 
tion to an 8 ohm speaker. 

Documentation includes basic user 
programs, a phoneme chart and listing 
of coded words to help you get started. 
Documentation for the Apple 
II s Speech Synthesizer includes a disk 
with text to speech program. 

81-088 Apple II Speech djj 

Synthesizer $129.96 

81-120 Parallel Input Speech 
Synthesizer $14938 

Prices include the SC-01 Chip 

SC-01 sold separately for $ K 



AD & DA CONVERTB 



JBE AD & DA Converter i 
with any system having pa 

• Interfaces with JBE Parallel ' 3 Card 

• D-A Conversion time — 5pS : » A-pcqn- 
version time — 20ms • Use- 
power supply • Parallel ttiputs & out- 
puts include 8 data tjtJS»*!'o(A> lines A 
latches • Analog tnpu 

medium impedance " 



79-287 
Bare Bo, 



ASSM. $79.96 

$38,85 



SOLID STATE SWITCH 





6502MPU, 6522 VIA, 2716EPROM, 2114 
RAM single board computer. Single 5 
volt power supply at 400 Ma. Two in- 
dependent 8 bit I/O ports with hand- 
shake lines. RC controlled 1 MHz clock. 

Complete documentation. I/O lines use 
50 pin edge connector. Data and ad- 
dress lines are not accessible. Mod. for 
2532 is included. EPROM 
ed. 1KRAM.2KEPROM, 

80-153 




Z-80 MICROCOMPUTErr 






■ «tt«-4gia-*i< 



Your computer can control power to 
your printer, lights, stereo & any 
120V AC appliances up to 720 watts (6 
amps at 120VAC). Input 3 to 15VDC • 
2-14MA TTL compatible • Isolation — 
1500V • Non zero crossing • Comes in 1 
or 4 channel version 



79-282-1 
Bare Board 
79-282-4 
Bare Board 



ASSM. $13.95 

$6.95 

ASSM. $49.95 

$24.95 



Z-80 MPU, Z-80 PK>, 2716 EPROM, 2114 

SAM single Marc comouter. Single 5 

supply !■ : ■HP^T 

8 bit I/O. ports with hand- 
i lines. RC cemrolled 2MHz clock. 

Complete documentation. I/O lines use 
50 pin edge connector. Data and ad- 
dress lines are not accessible. Mod. for 
2532 Is included. EPROM is not includ- 
ed. 1K RAM, 2K EPROM, 2 I/O ports. 

Assm. $129.95 



This board can be used to add a video 
display to your AIM or other computer. 
It can also, with the addition of a 
parallel keyboard, 5V power supply and 
video monitor, be used as a home com- 
puter. It will run Tom Pittman's Tiny 
Basic. The 2716 character gen. will pro- 
:8 characters, ASCII upper 
and graphic characters, 
mansion connector can be 
to 6K of memory or extra 
er requirements: 5 volts 
ratts 

iX.K:!jsng!H JBLJncludes schematic, 

ieo display and 
Monitor. Control character response: 

H Backspace 

I up one line 
,' .eteed 
L clears 
M carriage n 

space non c 

The curser is flashing JH 



82-140A assm. W/O EPROMS $149.95 
Character Gen. A7 $ 19.95 

Tiny Basic + Monitor $39.9 

GPIO Parallel Input ' t#$ 

Bare BoardwUh doc. $ 79J6 



11 El 



Single board large scale integration 
Microcomputer. This 4.5 x 6.5 board 
usesthe 6502 Microcomputer, two 6522 
VIA's four 2114 RAM's, 2516, 2716 or 
2532 EPROM. The fully buffered 22/44 
pin bus Is similar to the KIM" , SYM ■■ , 
and AIM* expansion connector. The 
four 8 bit I/O ports connect through 16 
pin dip sockets. This board was design- 
ed for control and is ideal for Personal 
and OEM use. 

• 6502 MPU 

• Two 6522 VIA's 

• Four 2114 RAM's (2K bytes) 

• One EPROM 2516 or 2532 

• Crystal clock 1 MHz 

• Requires 5V 1AMP power 
k » 4.5 x 6.5 card 

^ P ower on reset 

■sully buffered-expandable 

MBp lder mask-both sides 

': flpour Apple II CornouJajeTOE 6522 

|el IntBEiMMMiH^PROM Pro- 

5ment system for 

slimT~ 

Assm. $199.95 



This la a complete stand alone Video 
Terminal board. All that is needed besides 
this board Is a parallel ASCII keyboard, 
standard NTSC monitor, and a power 
supply. 

• 6502 Microprocessor 

• 6545-1 CRT controller 
» 2716 EPROM chars 

• 4K RAM (6116) 

• RS232 I/O for direct 
computer or modem W ■; 

• 80 columns X 25 line dnHH 

• Size 6.2" X 7.2" 

• Output for speaker (bell) 

• Power + 5 700 Ma. 

+ 12 50 Ma. 

- 12 50 Ma. 
This board is available assembled and 
tested. 82-018A $199.95 

Bare board with EPROMS 
and crystal. 82-018B $ 89.95 

Both versions come with complete 
documentation. 




JBE's 7.75x 1 1.75 6502 base Microcom- 
puter has k a « ; j; 18K of 
EPROM. 4K of RAM. 8 Parallel Ports 
and 1 Serial Port. Monitor and Tiny 
Basic are also available 

Both versions Include sockets lor 
2716s or 2532s, 8 16 pin sockets tor I/O 

i «ino and a OB. 

:RS: 



RAM 8WII Mnfi'ory (OK) 
8 1-330A Assm. W/O Memory 
81-33IJB Bare Board 

« Stat Mother Beard 
8 1-320A Assembled 



$99.95 
$49.95 





■fid data lines are brought 
HHo the 50 pin edge connec- 
HPto the Apple II bus.) 



ird also features power on reset 
cassette interface. 



81-030C Fully 

Populated 
81-030M Partially 

Populated 
2716 EPROM 

(with Tiny Basic) 



$399.95 
$299.95 

$ 19.95 



24 Hour Real Time Clock 

81-350A Assembled 
81-350B Bare Board 

Analog I/O Interlace 

81 -036A Assembled 
81 -036B Bare Board 



$149.95 
$ 49.95 



$199.95 
$ 49.95 



12 Port Parallel I/O (6-6522'S) 
82-036A Assembled $169.96 

82-036B Bare Board $ 49.95 



Tiny Basic + 
Monitor EPROM 



$39.95 



John Bell Engineering, Inc. 




#245 



ALL PRODUCTS ARE AVAILABLE FROM JOHN BELL ENGINEERING, INC. • 1014 CENTER ST., SAN CARLOS, CA 94070 
ADD SALES TAX IN CALIFORNIA • ADD 5% SHIPPING & HANDLING 3% FOR ORDERS OVER $100 

(415)592-8411 l^SS^ft) 

WILL CALL HOURS: 9am ■ 4pm ADD $1 - 50 F0R C0D - 



Circle 466 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 541 



DISKETTES 

3M Scotch* BRAND 



AT SUPER LOW PRICES 

WE WILL SHIP YOUR 

ORDER WITHIN 24 HOURS 

AND WE PAY THE 

SHIPPING CHARGES 



I COD ACCEPTED 



DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 

CALL TOLL FREE 
800 922-8193 

IN CALIFORNIA 
800 468-1068 



Tayco Busineas Forma 
Computer Suppllaa 
Post Office Box 605 
Newbury Park, CA 91320 




APPLE II COMPATIBLE DISK DRIVES 

ONLY $209.00 

CONTROLLER CARD $ ft&OO 

JUST PLUG IN AND RUN 

VERBATIM 

SW DISKETTES SS DD SOFT 

PERBOXOFW $23.99 

EPSON PRINTERS 

MX80FT $463 00 

OTHERMODELS CALL 

TELEVIDEO 

910 $339.00 

925 $719.00 

950 $929.00 

MONITORS 

12" 20 MHZ 

GREEN $129.00 

AMBER $129.00 

IBM PERSONAL COMPUTER 

64K Combo Card $32.1.00 

OZteeh, Inc. 

14()<) Coleman Ave. Suite F.2S 
Santa Clara, CA 95050 
(800) 222-M>77 
in Calif. (40fi) 9SO-9W 
VISA MG Accepted 



PC/FORTH™ 

Complete FORTH program development systems 
(or the IBM® Personal Computer. Packages 
include interpreter/compiler with virtual memory 
management, line editor, custom screen editor, 
assembler, decompiler, utilities, file and record 
access modules, and many demonstration pro- 
grams. 150 page user manual $100.00 

Software floating point, Intel 8087 support, color 
graphics extensions, and target compiler avail- 
able at additional cost. 

Specify PC-DOS or CP/M-86® One disk drive 
and 48 kbytes RAM required. Software supplied 
on 5Va inch single sided soft sectored double 
density diskettes. 

Laboratory Microsystems 

4147 Beethoven Stmt 
Los Angelet, CA 90066 

(213)306-7412 



Circle 399 on inquiry card. 



Circle 23 on inquiry card. 



Circle 231 on inquiry card. 



scotch 3M 

diskettes 



SAVE SOX 

on 

Scotch 

k Diskettes 



Dealer Inquiries Invited 



prices/10 



51/i " s P ecif v soft 
/•> 10 or 16 Sector 
7440 1 side/dbl dens $22. so 

745 2 sldes/dbl dens Ssroo 

746 1 side/quad 96 tpi $33.80 

747 2 sides /quad 96 tpi S«5.so 



8 



a 



Specify Soft or 32 Sector 



740 1 side sgl/dens S23.60 

741 1 side/dbl dens $29.00 

743 2 sides/dpi dens $37.80 

Checks-VlSA-MC-C.O.D./Add S2 Shipping 

Call or write for our complete list. 

LYBEN COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

27204 Harper Ave., St. Clair Shores, Ml 48081 

Phone: (313) 777-7780 



Authorized Distributor 
Information Processing Products ~ 



IBM PC, APPLE, etc. 



SHARING AND SWITCHING PROBLEMS? 
GILTRONIX HAS THE SOLUTION! 



Any CPU 




S y ^3 



Printer 1 Printer 2 Modem or 

Dot Matrix Letter Quality Other Peripheral 

MANUAL UNITS AUTOMATIC UNITS 

2-6 Ports OR 2-7 Pons 

Selecto-Switch Auto-Switch 

Serial (RS 232)/Parallel (Centronics) 

LOW COST ADD-ONS FROM THE MAIN 
r\S) MANUFACTURER 

<<££Giltron.\ 

LAJ 3780 Fabian Way. Palo Alto. CA 94303 
(415) 493-1300 



Computer Sale 



Franklin ACE 1000 

w/Color SCALL 

1000 System w/Monitor CALL 

ACE 1200 w/Color CALL 

Drives for Apple and Franklin 

Ouentin 5% 249 

Thin Line 279 

Contr. Card 65 

Contr. w/Diagnostics 95 

Franklin Color Kit 39.95 

(No Soldering) 

Shipping and handling add 3%. CA residents add 6% 



THE COMPUTER STORE 

3941-BS. Bristol St. Dept. 345 

Santa Ana, CA 92704 

714-662-1425 



Circle 242 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 177 on inquiry card. 



Circle 464 on Inquiry card. 



MicroScripf" $99 

State of the Art Text Formatter 

» generic markup 

• fully definable page with multiple columns 
» multiline headers, footers, and footnotes 

» automatic widow and orphan suppression 

• automatic section numbering 

» automatic table of contents and index 

• automatic bullet, number, and definition lists 

• floating figures 

• text alignment to lett, center, right, or justify 

» left and right indention with delay and duration 

• bold, underscore, and proportional spacing 
» macros and symbols 

• multiple input files of unlimited size 

• direct printer control 

► IDS. Qume, Diablo. NEC. C.ITOH. and all TTY 



MicroEd™ $49 

Customizable Full Screen Editor 
» full cursor control by character, word, or line 
» position to top or bottom of window or file 

• scroll by line, half window, or full window 

• global or selective find and replace 

► delete by character, word, line, or block 

• read external files into current file 

» copy, move, and write blocks of text 
» insert, overlay, or wordwrap text 

• all cursor addressable VDTs 



MicroType™ 

6531 Crown Blvd., Suite 3A, San Jose, CA 95120 
(408) 997-5026 

' CP'M-flO. CP/M-86 are trademarks ol Digital Research, PC-DOS 
k of IBM Corporation 



\ferbatim 

flexible disks 

Call Free (800) 235-4137 for 

prices and information. Dealer 
inquiries invited. C.O.D. and 
charge cards accepted. 




VISA' 



PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 

100 Foothill Blvd. 
San Luis Obispo. CA 
93401. InCal. call 
(800) 592-5935 or 
(805) 543-1037. 



Serial 4 ■ ■ ' ■ ' ' ' ' ■ t Parallel 




PRINTERSI 
PLOTTERS! 
PUNCHES! 
ROBOTS! 



Convert What You Have 
To What You Want I 

' RS232 Serial * Centronics Parallel 

' 8 Baud Rates * Handshake Signals 

* Latched Outputs * Compact 3% x 4>, x ly, 

No longer will your peripheral choices be limited by the type 
of port you have available! Our new High Performance 700 
Series Converters provide the missing link. Based on the 
latest In CMOS technology, these units feature full baud 
rate selection to 1 9.2K, with handshake signals to maximize 
transfer efficiency. Detailed documentation allows 
simplified Installation. Order the Model 770 (Set/Par) or 
Model 775 (Par/Ser) Todayl 

o«.,»89. 9S 

Connaotor Option $10.00 
,. CA flMKMni* B% tax 

1501-B Pm. Straw UPS Shipping S3.00 

Po» Oft** Box 2233 
Oxnard. California 33030 

^fr CALL (805) 487-1665 or 487-1666 
For FAST Delivery 



Circle 381 on inquiry card. 



Circle 310 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 160 on inquiry card. 



ORDER WITH CONFIDENCE FROM 

ONE OF THE NATIONS LARGEST 

CONSUMER ELECTRONIC PARTS DISTRIBUTORS 



APPLE COMPATIBLE 
KEYBOARD 









Heavy duty error free switches, 
switchable N key rollover, last 
key repeat, upper/ lower case 
capability, alpha lock. Complete 
with cable. 



ORDER NO. 

83-APL-KB-7 



$79.95 



ARCADE TYPE 
JOYSTICK 






Atari , 

Commodore, 

Sears compatible. 

Heavy duty leaf switches. Long life. 

order no. *mm r\t\ 

83-ATR-JY-1 $15.00 



Unbelievable Discount! 

APPLE II® COMPATIBLE 
SLIM DISK DRIVE 

RUNS QUIETER THAN THE ORIGINAL! 

New - not surplus - guaranteed! Only 

6"w x 1-7/8"h x 10"d. Complete 

with a 3' cable. Runs . ~ 

with Apple controller ..~X 

or our optional -^Sp 

controller. 



ORDER NO. 

83-APL-DD 




.1 *299. 95 




CONTROLLER 
CARD 

ORDER NO. « VI ft OR 

83-APL-CTL-1 *4y. ° 



PHMI I Q Buy two disk drives and get a free 
DWI 'Uw controller card! 



REPLACEMENT 
POWER SUPPLY FOR 
APPLE II 




Fully Apple compatible. '^ 
5A heavy duty switcher,1 10V or 
220V input, +5V/5A, +12V/3A, 
-5V -12V full load outputs. Fits in an 
Apple II case. AC cord included. 



ORDER NO. 

83-APL-PS-51 



$79.95 



REPLACEMENT 
POWER SUPPLY FOR 
ATARI® 800 AND 400 
MODELS. mm, 

1° «5£ *4-f nr 



83-ATR-PS-800 * $17.00 




12" AMBER 
MONITORS. 

Call for details. 

orderno 83-APL-MON-1 $140.00 




REPLACEMENT 
PADDLE SET 

FOR ATARI .& 

and OTHERS 

order no. 
83-ATR-PD-2 



$12.00 



REPLACEMENT 
RAM IC FOR ATARI 
2600 VCS 



10^ 



ORDER NO. 

83-ATR-IC-3 $11.95 



REPLACEMENT 
CPU IC FOR ATARI 
2600 VCS ^ ^ 

$9.95 



ORDER NO. 

83-ATR-IC-2 



APPLE COMPATIBLE 
JOYSTICK 



Heavy duty. 



ORDERNO. A-J » -- 

83-APL-XY-10 $16.50 



£ 




REPLACEMENT 
JOYSTICK 

Fits Atari, 
Commodore. 
Sears others. 
ORDER NO. 

83-ATR-XY-4 




REPLACEMENT 

AC ADAPTOR 

FOR ATARI 
2600 VCS 

9V 500mA. UL listed. 
ORDER NO. 

83-ATR-PS-5 $5.00 



ft* 



REPLACEMENT R.F 
MODULATOR FOR ATARI 
2600 VCS 

Also compatible with 
other video games. 

ORDER NO. 
83-ATR-RF-1 



$5.00 



JOYSTICK EXTENSION CORDS 

Works with Atari . Coleco, Commodore and other 9 pin 
plugs. Two popular lengths: 6' and 12'. 

ORDER NO. 

83-ATR-EX-6 $5.00 
83-ATR-EX-12 6.50 



i and other 9 pin 



REPLACEMENT 
APPLE JOYSTICK 
CABLE 

ORDER NO. 

83-APL-X-1 




REPLACEMENT 
ATARI JOYSTICK 
CABLE 



ORDER NO. 

83-ATR-X-1 



v& 



RF EXTENSION 
CORD 

15' RCA Male to 
RCA Female. 



$3.00 



ORDER NO. 

83-ATR-RG-15 




$5.00 



■■■■ ■» MINIMUM ORDER $25.00. VISA, MASTER CARD accepted. No surcharges. Exact UPS charges will be added. PREPAID: Certified 
checks and money orders, send exact amount. No shipping, handling or insurance charges in the continental USA. PERSONAL CHECKS: add 5% 
shipping charges, allow 3 weeks to clear. INTERNATIONAL BUYERS: US currency and 20% extra for shipping. CA Residents, add sales tax. OEM, 
DEALERS: send for special prices on your company letterhead. No purchase orders or open accounts-no exceptions. 



ELECTRONICS 

A DIVISION OF ALLIANCE RESEARCH CORPORATION 

18215 PARTHENIA ST.* NORTHRIDGE, CA 91325 



Call toll free: (800) 423-5336 

In California: (800) 382-3663 

Local: (213) 701 -5848 

Telex 181011 ORAPARTS NTGE 



BYTE July 1983 543 



PERIPHERALS 
FOR APPLE 

Quality Inexpensive Peripherals 
with a Full One Year Warranty 



APPLE/SHLGART DRIVES (5 '. ! 
DISK CONTROLLER |DOS 3.2-3.31 

80 COLUMN CARD 
(VIDEX EQUIVALENT) 

Z80 SOFTCARD 
(MICROSOFT EQUIVALENT) 

PRINTER INTERFACE WITH 16K 
BUFFER AND GRAPHICS 
(APPLE DUMPLING EQUIVALENT) 

MULTI-FUNCTION CARD 
(PARALLEL, SERIAL, BSR, 
CLOCK) (VERSA CARD EQUIV) 



BARE 
EACH BOARD 
~si99 
69 
149 



S 21 

29 



APPLE lie BARE BOARD 


175 


80 COLUMN FOR lie WITH 64K RAM 


129 28 


5 '/."FLOPPY DRIVE ENCLOSURE 


17 


68000 CO-PROCESSOR WITH 


899 32 


128K RAM AND SOFTWARE 




(UCSD P- SYSTEM, CP/M) 




PROWRITER I 


369 


EPSON FX80 (90 DAY WARRANTY) 


549 


USIGRN SCREEN 9 INCH MONITOR 


99 


COLORADO COMPUTER PERIPHERALS 


R.R. 6, Box 7D 




Golden, Colorado 80401 (303) 278-71 72 



INVENTORY REDUCTION 

EAGLE III MICROCOMPUTER - 

64K, CP/M; includes spellbinder, ultra- 
calc, CPM C basic $2,495.00' 

MANNESMANN TALLY 1805 
dual mode printer, 200 CPS 
draft mode/50LPS 
correspondence mode $1,395.00* 

DATAVUE DISPLAY TERMINALS - 

132 & 80 column formats, soft keyboard 

originally $1,995.00* 

now $1,000.00 

TELEVIDEO 950 - 
demo units $ 850.00* 

ECONOMY 

PERIPHERALS, INC. 

Call (404) 952-0213 

• WHILE QUANTITIES LAST 



*■■ 8" DISKETTES ALSO AVAILABLE 

TOP QUALITY 

5V* DISKETTES 

SPECIFY SOFT. 10 or 16 SECTORS 

• wabash ^1_ 

SSDDIM13A411X) 23.00 

DSDD(M14A411X) 30.00 

• control data 



112.00 218.00 
146,00 286.00 



SSDD(CDC124200) 22.00 106.00 210.00 

DSDD (CDC 1244-00) 30.50 147.00 290.00 

• 3IM scotch 

SSDD (3M 744D-0) 22.00 109.00 

DSDD (3M 745-0) 3100 150.00 

• verbatim 



213.00 
295.00 



SSDD(MD525-01-18158) 25 20 124 00 245.00 
DSDDIMD55O-0M8188) 36.50 180.00 355.00 

• maxwell 



SSDDIMAX-MD-1M) 28.95 

DSDD (MAX-MDZ-DM) 39.00 
> dysan 



140.00 270.00 
19200 380.00 



SSDD(DYS 104-1D) 36.00 177.00 350.00 

DSDDIDYS 104-2D) 41.00 202.00 400.00 

CALL TOLL FREE 800-824-7888 

(VISA. M.C.. COO. ORDERS ONLY) """*">J*"»" 



°~VnlUnlted 



• CHECKS MO. VISA. 
M.C-ADD $2.00 SHIP P.O.BOX 3304 

• CA. RESIDENTS ADD SUMTOGA, CH 95070, 
6% SALES TAX (40B) 252 4210 

• SURCHARGE ON ORDERS 
SHIPPED OUTSIDE USA 




Circle 499 on inquiry card. 



Circle 500 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 116 on inquiry card. 



FILE MANAGEMENT 
UTILITY 

1. MULTI-USER 

2. SUPPORTS RECORD & FILE LOCK 

3. WRITTEN IN 8080 OBJECT CODE 
FOR FAST EXECUTION 

4. UP TO 20 FILES OPEN AT ONE 
TIME 

5. RANDOM FILE RECORD LENGTH 
to 500 bytes 

6. B-Tree indexed files 

7. KEY LENGTH FROM 1 to 80 bytes 

Requires CP/M 1 , MP/M 2 , TurboDOS 3 , 
or MmmOST 1 . 

COUGAR MOUNTAIN 
SOFTWARE, Inc. 

10 S. Latah Box 6886 

Boise, Idaho 83707 

208-344-2540 

TM: 1 & 2 Digital Research 
3 Software 2000, 4 TelcVidco 



C LANGUAGE 
PROGRAMMERS 

c -systems 
C COMPILER 
c-wfindow™ 

The complete c language source level 

program testing and debugging tool. 

• Single step by c source line. 

• Set breakpoints at line numbers. 

■ Display and alter variables by symbol 
name, using c expression syntax. 

• No more printf or assembler level 
debugging! 

c-window™ is a support package tor 
the c-eysteme C COMPILER for 
8086/8088 based systems. 



Contact. 
c-eyetems 

P.O. Box 3253 

TM c-systems 



Fuller-ton. CA 92634 
714-637-5362 



S-100 

COLOR GRAPHICS 
$199 

256H-192V • IMAGER-! • 16 COLORS 



A • USES TMS 991SA FROM TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 

P • 32 PRIORITIZED PLANES FOR 3D SIMULATION 

B P • 3 GRAPHIC MODES 

U L • TEXT MODE 

Si • 32 Simultaneous fast moving SPRITES 

I C ■ Sprite; coincidence detection 

N A -ON BOARD JOYSTICK & PUSHBUTTON LOGIC 

E T • COMPOSITE VIDEO OUTPUT |NTSC) 

Si ■ ON BOARD RF MOD CONVERSION INSTRUCTIONS 

SO • Meets IEEE 696 Specifications 

N • HIGH QUALITY PC CONSTRUCTION 

S • Sample programs included in manual 

USER MUNUA1 ONlT - SKI 
DEMfl INQUIft'tS INVITED - CHECK <n MONEY ORDER » COD 
MASTERCARD. VISA - ADD i'% - ADD S3 SHIPPING & HAN0UHG 
MASSACHUSETTS RESIDENTS PlfASE ADD 54 SALES TAX ,^_ 



CALL (800)343-1292 *■;■- 

MASS (800) 322-0453 !^™ 

TechniGraphic Designs 

P.O.BOXZ39-GRAFTON.MASSACHUSETTB01S19 



Circle 493 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 61 on inquiry card. 



Circle 402 on inquiry card. 



Scotch Diskettes 

Rely on Scotch* diskettes to keep your valu- 
able data safe. Dependable Scotch diskettes 
are tested and guaranteed error-free. The low 
abrasivity saves your read/write heads 
They're compatible with most diskette drives 




(800)235-4137 



Dealer Inquiries 
invited 




TIME SAVING - MONEY SAVING 

PRINTER BUFFER 




SPOOL-Z-Q 

Spool-Z-Q is perrV-a for use with all parallel (Centronics stan- 
Jard} printers including Radio Shack printers. Spool-Z-Q is 
stand-alone, it doesn't steal power from the computer or printer. 
The many advanced features include automatic internal space 
character compression, copy and self-test functions, and a special 
"Pause-on -Form feed" mode. 

SIZES AND EXPANSION 
Spool-Z-Q comes in )2K, 64K, and !28K character sizes. Anv 
Spool-Z-Q can he user expanded to 64 or 128K oy just plugging in 
chips — the sockets ore already installed. There are no jumpers to 
fool with either, Spool-Z-Q knows how much memory is installed 
without oeing told, 

15 DAY TRIAL PERIOD 
You may try Spool-Z-Q with your system and. if you aren't 
completely satisfied, return it within 15 days for a no-hassle full 
refund. 

FACTORY DIRECT PRICES 
(Shipping included) 
32K - #219 
64K - 1249 
128K - $309 
Cable to printer — $27 
We eccept Master Card, Vies, AMEX, and C.O.D 



JVB ELECTRONICS 

1601 Fulton Ave.. Suite 1 
Sacramento, CA 96826 
(916) 483-0709 



PRINTER-STILTS 



TM 




• SOLVE YOUR PAPER STORAGE PROBLEMS* 

Elevate your Epson MX-70/80 or MX-1C3 Printer, 
e Precision Machined — natural finish aluminum. 

• Tilted to Facilitate Viewing — soft rubber feet 

• Easy to Install — no tools required. 
MX-70/80 style fits IBM, Tl and HP PC DOT PTRS. 
Give style and send $9.95 plus $2.00 P and H. 



DATATEK INC. 

J P.O. Box 5956 Dept 400 f, 

" Shreveport, LA. 71135 ' 

(318) 868-2241 or 868-0068 til 10 pm CST 



Circle 310 on inquiry card. 



Circle 225 on inquiry card. 



Circle 133 on inquiry card. 




oft @cw [^©GanO 1-S®[p©@ 
ORDER TOLL FREE 

& EAST ft ft WEST ft 

1 (800) 854-81 74 

In Calif. 1 (714) 898-1492 



1 (800) 435-9357 

n III. (815) 485-4002 



yR W 85* MICRO 
IV . 11. SALES 



• MADE IN U.S.A. BY AMERICANS • 



TERMS: We accept VISA/MC, prepay, check a money order. Please allow personal check two weeks to clear before shipment. 
$5.00 handling charge on all orders under $50.00 1 5% Restocking Fee All orders shipped via UPS unless otherwise specified All 
UPS C.O.D. orders over $1 00.00 require a Cashiers Check. *■ Our products carry a lull 6 months parts and labor wananty excluding 
drives, printers and terminals which cany the full OEM factory warranty. PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE. 



• EAST • 11 Edison Drive, New Lenox, Illinois 60451 

• WEST • 15392 Assembly Lane, Huntington Beach, CA 92649 



CUSTOMER SERVICE HOTLINE 1 ■ (714) 898-5525 




XOR Z-80 CPU 

* Two RS-232 Serial Ports 

* Three 8-Bit Parallel Ports 

* Powerful 2K Prom Monitor 

* Extended Addressing 

* On Board CTC Capability 

Assembled and Tested $255.00 

Order Part# S-1QOO-35 

XOR DISK CONTROLLER 

* Full 4MHZ Operation 

* Multi-Sector Operation 

* Mixed Density Operation 

* Runs 8" and 5V Drives' 
■*• Utilizes W D.'s 1395 Chir Set* 

Assembled and Tested $275.00 

Order ParU S-1 000-36 

XOR 64K RAM 

* 4116 200NS Ram Chips 

* I6K Banks - Selectable 

* 4MHZZ-80 Operation 

* Reset Enable/Disable 

* No R'C Networks Tied to TTL 

Assembled and Tested $259.00 

Order Part# S-1 000-37 






UNIVERSAL POWER SUPPLY 

For Big Board, Apple or Aim 65 

+5VDC @ 3 Amps 

+ 12VDC @ .750 Amps 

-12VDC @ .750Amps 

-5VDC @ .500 Amps 

(fen Q*5 Dimensions: 4" x4"x 1 1" 

DISK DRIVE POWER SUPPLY 

For 2 - 8" or 5" Drives 

+ 5VDC £ 4 Amps 

+24VDC @ 3 Amps 

- 5VDC i 1 Amp 

AC Cables tor 2 Drives $7 .50 

Dimensions: 4" x 4" x 11" 



Jfattoi 







$59.95 



S-1 00 POWER SUPPLY 

+8VDC @ 30 Amps 
+ 16VDC <s> 6 Amps 
-16VDC @ 6 Amps 

PC Board Design 
Dimensions: 5" x 6" x 11" 




$89.50 



12 Slot S1-M0D 

by XOR 



For test or systems applications 
Complete S-1 00 12 Slot Main- 
frame with Disk Drive Power Supply 
for 4 Drives. 

SPECIFICATIONS 

Regulated 
+5V <s> 5A 
+24V @ 3A 
-5V @ 1A 
$225.00 Kit with 12 S-100 Bus Connectors 
$255.00 Assem. and Tested with 1 2 Bus Connectors 

$15.00 AC/DC Drive Cable Set for 2 Drives 
Dimensions 6" x 1 0" x 18" — Shipping Weight 25 lbs. 




Unregulated 
+8V © 30A 
±16V <s> 6A 




Low Velocity 
Whisper' Fans 
0n/y$18.00ea 
Finger Guards 
$2.50 each. 






XOR 

S-100 MOD 



FLOPPY DRIVES 

Buy a set at these reduced prices 



DUAL DRIVE SUBSYSTEMS 





771 * 




i" Shugart 801 R SS/DD $369.00 

8" Shugart 851R DS/DD 495.00 

8" Qume DT-8 DS/DD 519.00 

8" Mitsubishi 2894 DS/DD 465.00 

8" Mitsubishi Slimline DS/DD 465.00 

8" Tandon 848-1 Thinline SS/DD 370.00 

8" Tandon 848-2 Thinline DS/DD 470.00 

8" Siemans 120-8 SS/DD 235.00 

5'A" Mitsubishi 96 DS/DD Full 315.00 

5'/4" Mitsubishi 96 DS/DD <k Height 315.00 

All Shugart and Mitsubishi drives will have a 1 year parts 
and labor warranty. Qume drives — Full 6 months — All 
others 90 days. 



HORIZONTAL OR VERTICAL 

Fully Assembled and Tested Units 

ONE YEAR P + L WARRANTY 

On Shugart and Mitsubishi Subsystems 

w/two Mitsubishi DS/DD $1170.00 

w/two Shugart 801 R SS/DD 975.00 

w/two Shugart 851R DS/DD 1225.00 

w/two Siemans 120-8 SS/DD 675.00 

w/two Qume DT-8 DS/DD 1250.00 

Cabinet A & T w/Power Supply and Aces 235.00 

Cabinet Top and Bottom Only - 69.50 

All cabinets A & T and subsystems include all AC/DC wiring and 50 pin data cable 
except the horizontal model which includes the internal 50 pin cable and requires 
an external 50 pin cable part # C 6000-01 s 25.00 

5V4" Subsystems 

w/two 48TPI SS/DD 495.00 

w/two 48TPI DS/DD 595.00 

w/two 96TPI DS/DD 695.00 



California 
Computer 
Systems 



CCS SYSTEM 2410 $1995.00 

* Includes CP/M' r 2.2 * 2-Seriat/1 -Parallei Port 

* DMA Disk Controller * Hardware Vectored Interrupts 

* 2-Real Time Clocks * Supports CP/M»,MP/M« .OASIS 



CCS 2300 System, A & T .$1695.00 

* Includes CP/M' 2.2 

* 2300 Mainframe 

* 2810 2-80A CPU 



* New 2066 64K Memory 

* 2422 Disk Controller 

* Complete A+T 



* 2710 4 Port Serial $245.00 

* 2719 2 Serial - 2 Parallel 245.00 

* 2810 CPU On/y-255.00 

* 2422 Disk Controller On/y-330.00 

* 2066 64K On/y-360.00 

* 2300A Mainframe On/y-455.00 

* CCS Apple Boards Call Toll Free For Prices 



TERMINALS 

ADDS Viewpoint A2 Green Screen $585.00 

ADDS Viewpoint 3A Plus Green Screen 519.00 

Ampex Dialogue 80 Amber Screen 2-pg. Fund Keys 785.00 
Ampex Dial 80 Green Screen 2-pg. Function Keys 785.00 

Wyse Wy-100 Green Screen Detachable Keyboard ...„ 795.00 
Televideo 910+ Green Screen - Block Mode 569 00 

Televideo 925 Self Test - Time of Day 739.00 

Televideo 950 Programmable Function Keys 945.00 

Televideo 970 * NEW * Full Features * 1159.00 

Zenith Z-19 Green Screen 695.00 



PRINTERS 

Diablo 620 Letter Quality 20 cps 

Epson FX-80 Parallel 160 cps 2K Buffer 
I.D.S. Microprism Model 480 80 Column 
Mannesman Tally MT-180L 160 cps . . 



(1195.00 

599.00 
565.00 
$ CALL 



Okidata 82A 80 Column 120 cps Serial + Parallel 465.00 

Okidala 83A 132 Column 120 cps Serial + Parallel 745.00 

Okidata ML92 Includes Tractor 160 cps 629.00 

Okidata ML93 Includes Tractor 160 cps 965.00 

Seikosha GP-100A 30 cps 80 Column 195.00 

Seikosha GP-250X 50 cps 80 Column .: i 259.00 



MODEMS 

Hayes-Smartmodem 1200 Bell 212A Auto $559.00 

Hayes-Smartmodem 300 Bell 103 0-300 Baud 259.00 

Hayes-Smartmodem S-100 45-300 Baud Auto Dial 359.00 

Novation - 103/212 Smart Cat 300 or 1200 Baud 479.00 

Novation - D-Cat Direct Conn. 300 Baud Org/Ans 169.00 

Novation - J-Cat Auto Search Self-Test-Pocket Size 129.00 

PMMI - MM103 300/600 Baud S-100 359.00 

U.S. Robotics - 1200 Baud Auto Dial Auto Org/Ans 495.00 

U.S. Robotics - Micro link 1200 Baud Bell 212A 395.00 

U.S. Robotics - Micro Link 0-300 Baud Bell 103 159.00 



Circle 426 on inquiry card. 



See Page 349 for Additional System Information 



Programmable 
Communications 
Translator 

The PCT-100 is a configurable in-line 
rs-232 protocol and data translator, 
the pct-100 can provide: 

* Terminal or printer emulation 

* dec or ibm system compatibility 

* Macro-function keys 

* "Type-ahead" and data buffering 

* Baud rate conversion 

* Handshake protocol translation 
(e.g. CTS/RTS, XON/XOFF) 

The PCT-100 is configured using a 
built-in Communications Translation 
Language. Programs can be easily 
entered & edited from any asci i device. 

pct-100-pcb (pcb only) $ 289 

PCT-100-ASM (PCB w/ CASEJ..S 339 
PCT-512-MCO (POWER SUPPLY).* 59 



jw jy\so ~*± 

Method Systems Incorporated 

19751 South Lakeshore Boulevard 

Euclid. Ohio 441 19 

(216) 531-0404 



WANTED 



Experienced hacker to work in development 
lab with every facility you can think of, 
located in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. 

The person we are looking for must: 

Be familiar with CP/M at the BIOS 
Customization level. 

Have some experience in microcommunica- 
tions (programs like XMODEM and the like) . 

Be good at: - 8080 assembler 

- Microsoft BASIC 

- PASCAL 

Hardware experience is desirable. 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F Handicapped 
Please forward resumes to: 

Personnel Head, CLI, 

P.O. Box 821 

Pompano Beach, FL 33060 



Printer Cables 



& 



.oo* 



*J5 



,00* 



— Parallel — 

ALTOS 

ATTACHE «}.. 

ATARI "*• 

CENTRONICS 

COLUMBIA 

EAGLE 

IBM-PC 

KAY PRO 

OSBORNE 

SANYO 

TI-99 



00* 




— SERIAL — 



ATTACHE COM. 

RS232 (DB25P) 

(9 conductor 1-8, 20) 



CABLES UNLIMITED 

PO Box 93065 

Pasadena, Calif. 

91109 



Circle 258 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 72 on inquiry card. 



Circle 448 on inquiry card. 




9 -S> N 



5015 Kanan Road 

Agoura Hills, CA 

91301 






Circle 428 on Inquiry card. 



MOVE YOUR MICRO 

into the 
3270 ENVIRONMENT 



CLEO> 



CLUSTER 

ENVIRONMENT 

OPERATOR 



3270 Cluster Emulation Software, CLEO, 

allows asychronous ASCII Terminalsto 
communicate with a BSC port. These 
terminals may be CRTs and printers from 
various manufacturers. CLEO will han- 
dle up to eight ASCII terminals and may 
be multi-dropped with other cluster 
controllers from one port. The ASCII 
terminals may be on-site with CLEO or 
remote from it, over dedicated lines or 
dial-up. 

distributed by 
CYBEH/ SOUHCE 

YOUR SOURCE FOR THINKING MACHINES 

Call or Write for the Dealer Nearest You 

24000 Telegraph Rd. 802 Burr Oak Dr. 

Southfield. Ml 48034 Westmont, IL 60559 

(313) 353-8660 (312) 789-3366 

DEALER INQUIRIES WELCOME 





SAVE BIG $ $ $ 




APPLE HARDWARE 


sieck 






Ml ,oi 


aKim.w.mm.i -„«=,„, 


S47S 


AW 102 


Dish Onve w/out controller 


249 


AW 103 


Gamim 10 Primer 


3SS 


aw 104 


12" Green monrtor 


105 


AW 201 


aOCCum.ca.d 


;39 


AW 202 


Z-BOoero 


129 


AW 203 


Dis*-ll controller 


as 


AW 204 


Tel-moflam (HS-2321 


75 


W 05 


16K BAM card .Lavage) 


49 


m joe 


Parallel card 


S3 


.WW? 


APLS Keyboard ,.,.. 


79 


AW 208 


Joystick deiu. 


25 


AW 209 


SuD-R-Mod ., 


25 


w„™ 


/isa. Manor Charoe, check ana CO D CA residents add 6Wb ^i* 




Sh.pDing: S3. 00 lor first 3 lot 40C lor each a 00 it ion J 1 






GOODWILL ELECTRONICS CO. 






18901 CHENSHAW BLVD. 






TORRANCE, CABC503 






{2131 532-9624 





Circle 180 on inquiry card. 



CB80* 

Language Utilities 

■f Directory display function, 
accepts CP/M* ambiguous 
file references 
f Drive select error recovery 
+ Disk read/write error recovery 
•f Default drive finder function 
t All for only $99 

These professional utilities are 
powerful yet easy to use. Com- 
plete documentation with many 
examples on how to use them is 
included. Call or send for 
complete description. Visa, 
MasterCharge, C.O.D. accepted. 

Elite Software 



421 Hwy 30, Suite 121 
College Station, Texas 77840 409-696-3328 
*CP/M & CB80TM of Digital Research 




vrna- 









am. 



Circle 119 on inquiry card. 




wabash 

Scotch 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



MMtwCard. 



FOR 

ORDERS 

CALL COLLECT 
(614) 866-3462 



datamaster 



A DIVISION OF 

IKOP International Corp.l 

L514S ZIMMER DR., COLUMBUS, OHIO 43227J 



Circle 122 on inquiry card. 



Circle 157 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 129 on inquiry card. 



CHECK OUR NEW 
•LOW PRICES* 



\|)j)le Compatible Products | General Products- cont. 



kill !>ook 




330 



AFDC-1 Floppy Disk Drive Controller . . . OJ 
Runs DOS 3.3 with any standard Shugart com- 
patible 5Va" Disk Drive. (2 Drives Each Card) 

APPLE ADD-ON DISK 1 

Includes: AFDC-1 (reads/writes 13 & 
16 sector Apple Disks), (1) SA400 or 
TM100-1, VDC-55S Dual Cabinet $ 
w/Power Supply and Cables 

APPLE ADD-ON DISK 2 

Includes: AFDC-1 (reads/writes 13 & 
16 sector Apple Disks), (2) SA400 or 
TM100-1, VDC-55S Dual Cabinet $ 
w/Power Supply and Cables 



* *; «■ v'*:«;-#;V * 
I » * * v * »i t 



95 



00 



465 



00 



$J 



100 




ASCII KEYBOARD A&T OS 

Plug in compatible with Apple II, has shiftlock, 
underscore, [ ] and back slash characters. 

Apple Prototype Board. 

Double Sided glass with 
gold plated Apple and 
General Purpose termin- 
als. Contains matrix of 17 
x 63 solder plated donuts 

on .15" x.1 "spacing. Great for 14, 16, and 24 pin IC's. 

SUN 722 12.99 



General Product 



Diskettes 

5Vt" SS/DD Wabash 40 track w/hub rings . $24.00 

5W SS/DD Soft with Library Case 24.00 

8" DS/DD Soft Memorex, Box of 1 44.99 



Video Monitors 




SAMWOO GREEN 9" 18MHz $121.00 

SAMWOO AMBER 9" 18MHz 125.00 

SAMWOO GREEN 12" 12MHz 130.00 

SAMWOO AMBER 12" 12MHz 134.00 

Composite video I/O. 750 lines resolution. 75/10K 
ohm impedance. Note: Please add $7.50 ship- 
ping and handling for the video monitors. 

Super Sale 

P/N 

2716 (450nS) 
2732 (450nS) 
2532 (450nS) 
2764 128 pin) 



J\ 



8-24 25up P/N 8-24 2Sup 

3.80 3.55 6116P-3 (150nS) 6.10 5.75 

4.15 3.98 2114L-2 (200nS) 1.62 1.62 

5.95 5.95 4164 5.95 5.84 

9.95 9.95 Z80A CPU 4.99 4.99 



Disk Drive Subsystems 

VDC-55S Dual S'/i" Cabinet 
w/5V @ 3A and 12V @ 3A Power 
Supply, and Fan 



100 



00 



Assembled Connectors and Cables 

Centronics Type Cable Assemblies 36 pin flat cable 
with male to male or male to female connectors. 

4 ft— $24.95 6 ft.— $27.95 
RS232 Cable Assemblies 25 pin flat cable with male 
to male or male to female connectors. 

5 ft— $29.95 10 ft— $35.95 

Assemble Your Own Cables 



Ribbon 
Cable 

Cond. Price/ft. 
20 $0.50 

26 0.65 

34 0.83 

40 1.00 

50 1.30 



Card Edge IDS Header 

Connector Socket (w/w) 

Price Price Price 

$2.46 $3.06 $4.24 

4.80 3.87 4.68 

5.93 6.30 5.25 

6.90 7.20 5.95 

7.58 7.50 6.20 



IDS DB-25P Connector $5.95 

IDS DB-25S Connector $6.25 

General Purpose Experimental 
Prototype Boards 

(Solder Plated w/Double Sided Terminals on .156" Centers) 

15/30 pin, 3 Ms x 4M> board 
w/.1"x.2" hole spacing and 
power strip run every 1.2". 
Allows 6x7 8pin IC's or 2x3 
24pin IC's. 
SUNIC-S $1.65 

22/44 pin, 4% x 6 Ms board 
w/.1" hole spacing. Contains 
4 rows of 67 pins with power 
strips between rows. Pattern 
of 4 columns of 67 pins. Takes 
all sizes of IC's. 
SUN U -75 $3.25 

22/44pin,4 5 /8x7 board w/.1"x .2" hole spacing and 
power strips every 1.2". Allows 10x10 8pin IC's or 
3x7 24pin IC's. 
SUN IC-L $3.95 




Full Size Keyboard 
Conversion 



10% x 7V4 x 2Ms 




Easy To Install 

No Soldering — No Modifications 

41 Keys with Full Size Space Bar • Allows Touch Typing 

Same Key Layouts as Sinclair • Two Color Keytops 

Keyboard Case Holds Both Keyboard and Computer 

Commands and Graphics Spelled Out on Keytops 

Rear Cutout for Any RAM or Expansion Modules 

Note: Please add $4.00 shipping and handling for KD-81. 

16K Piggyback RAM Module p/n mx 16 $49.95 

64K Piggyback RAM Module p/n mx -64 $119.00 



= SUNTRONICS CO., inc. 



nimrai hooks 



CP/M User's Guide $15.95 

The CRT Contoller Handbook 9.95 

MP Measurement & Control 15.99 

4 & 8 Bit MP Handbook 19.95 

16 Bit MP Handbook 19.95 

6800 MP Handbook 9.95 

8089 I/O Processor Handbook 9.95 

Interfacing the S-100 Microcomputer 15.00 

6502 Assembly Language Programming 16.99 

6800 Assembly Language Programming .... 15.99 

Z80 Assembly Language Programming 16.99 

Z8000 Assembly Language Programming . . . 15.99 
68000 Assembly Language Programming . . . 16.99 
8085A Assembly Language Programming . . . 15.99 

The 8086 Book 16.99 

The Business System Buyer's Guide 9.95 

Some Common Basic Programs 14.99 



12621 Crenshaw Blvd., Hawthorne, CA 90250 



S-100 Product 



64K 6MHz Static RAM/EPROM 




STORE HOURS: MON.-FRI. 
SATURDAY 



9:00am to 6:00pm 
10:00am to 5:00pm 



CAUFORNSA 213644- 1149 

(for Tech Info and Calif, orders) 

Mall Order— Minimum Order: $10. Send Check 01 
MasterCard (please include expiration date). Add 
pound to your order. California residents add 6 r 



siccoo 

64KSM A&T without RAM 199 

64KSM A&T with 64k RAM (32-61 16's) 339.00 

S-100 Board Uses 6MHz 61 16's. ViA max. power. 
Bank Select plus Extended Addressing allow for 
multi-memory board set-up. 4 independant 16K 
Blocks make easy use with multi-user systems. 
Any 2K RAM may be replaced by 2716 EPROM. 

256K/1M Byte Dynamic RAM 

soon 00 

256KDM A&T without RAM £,9U 

256KDM A&T with 64K RAM (8-4164's) 340.00 

256KDM A&T W/256K RAM (32-41 64's) 489.00 

S-100 Board, 4 Banks uses either 64Kx1 or 
256Kx1 RAMs. Allows for 64K to IM byte RAM on 
just one S-100 card. 24 Bit Addressing, Phantom 
Mode, Error Trap Opt., Parity Check, 4MHz 
Transparent Refresh, Front Panel Operation. Op- 
tional M1 Wait for 6MHz Operation. 

S-100 Products 

SBC-880 Z80A CPU, A&T $195.00 

SBC-880 Z80A CPU, Kit 175.00 

4MHz Z80A CPU boards with Serial/Parallel Ports 

UFDC-1 Floppy Controller, A&T 245.00 

UFDC-1 Floppy Controller, Kit 225.00 

The UFDC-1 Floppy Controller uses the WD1795 
chip which runs either and/or 8"/5 1 /i" Disk Drives. 

CLOCK CALENDAR A&T 115.00 

CLOCK CALENDAR Kit 95.00 

This S-1 00 Clock Calendar Board has 4 interrupts, 
Time, Day of Week and Battery Backup. 

S-100 Prototype Board 

Double Sided glass with 
gold plated, numbered 
S-1 00 terminals. Matrix of 
25 x 78 solder plated do- 
nuts on .15" x.1 "spacing. 
Locations for headers and 

regulators. Great for 14, 16, and 24 pin IC's. 

SUN-721 17.85 

Mother Boards & Card Cages 

SLOTS Bare Bd KIT A&T w/CAGE 

6 $12.00 $34.00 $49.00 $74.00 

8 16.00 45.00 70.00 105.00 

12 22.00 65.00 100.00 140.00 

10MHz, No termination. Mother Board and Card 
Cage include power indicator, reset and pro- 
visions for wiring power supply and muffin fan. 

OUTSIDE CALIFORNIA TOLL FREE I 800-421-5775 

(Order Desk Only) 

Money Order to: P.O. BOX 1957 Dept B, HAWTHORNE, CA 90250 Visa or 
$2.00 postage and handling for first 3 pounds plus .50 for each additional 
'/o sales tax. 




Circle 388 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 547 



WH9m 



PirtNo. 



CA3013H 
CA3023H 




2.15 
3.25 


CA3035H 




5.95 


CA3039H 




1.35 


CA3046N 


14 


.89 


CA3059N 


14 


3.25 


CD4000 


14 


29 


CO 4001 


14 


.29 


C04002 


14 


.29 


CD4006 


14 


89 


CD40Q7 


14 


29 


CD40XW 


IS 


.39 


CD4010 


IB 


.39 


CD4011 


14 


.29 


CD4012 


14 


.IS 


C04013 


14 


.39 


CD4014 


11 


79 


CD4015 


16 


.39 


CD4016 


14 


39 


CD4017 


Id 


75 


CD4018 


16 


79 


CD4019 


16 


.39 


CD4020 


16 


75 


CD4021 


16 


79 


CD4022 


16 


79 


CD4023 


14 


29 


CD4024 


14 


.89 


CD4025 


14 


23 


CD4026 


16 


2.49 


CD4027 


16 


.45 


CD4028 


16 


69 


CD4Q29 


16 


.79 


CD4030 


14 


39 


CD4034 


?4 


1 95 


L CD4035 


16 


89 



"Number of Plus ol each I.C, | 
lor uiy Socket purchase 
PirtNo. "Pins Price 



MICROPROCESSOR COMPONENTS W\ Digitaiker 



SN7472N 14 

SN7473N 14 

SN7474N 14 

SN7475N 16 

SN7476N 16 

SN7479N 14 

SN74B0N 14 

SN7482N 14 

SN7483N 18 

SN7485N 18 

SN7486N 14 

SN74B9N 16 

SN7490N 14 

SN7491N 14 

SN7492N 14 

SN7493N 14 

SN7494N 14 

SN7495N 14 

SN7496N 16 

SN7497N 16 

SN7410ON 24 

SN74104N 14 

SN74105N 14 

SN74107N 14 

SN74109N 16 

SN74116N 24 

SN74121N 14 

SN74122N 14 

SN74123N 16 

SN74125N 14 

SN74126N 14 

SN74132N 14 

SN74136N 14 

SN74141N 16 

SN74142N 16 

SN74143N 24 

SN74144N 24 

SN74145N 16 

SN74147N 16 

SN74148N 18 

SN74150N 24 

SN.74151N 16 

SN74152N 14 

SN74153N 16 

SN74154N 24 

SN74155N 16 



74LS92 

74LS93 

74LS95 

74LS96 

74LS107 

74LS109 

74LS112 

74LS113 

74LS114 

74LS122 

74LS123 

74LS125 

74LS126 

74LS132 

74LS133 

74LS136 

74LS138 

74LS139 

74LS151 

74LS153 

74LS154 

74LS155 

74LS156 

74LS157 

74LS156 

74LS160 

74LS161 

74LS162 

74LS163 

74LS164 

74LS165 

74LS168 

74LS169 

74LS170 

74LS173 

74LS174 

74LS175 

74LS1B1 

74LS190 

74LS191 



74S124 
74S133 
74S134 
74S135 
74S136 
74S138 
74S139 
74S140 
74S151 
74S153 
74S157 
74S158 
74S160 
74S174 
74S175 
74S188* 
74S194 
74S195 
74S196 
74S240 
74S241 
74S242 



CA3060N 
CA3080E 
CA3Q81N 
CA3082N 

casqbsn 

CA3086N 



CD4040 

CD4041 

CD4042 

CD4043 

C04044 

CD4046 

CD4047 

CD4048 

CD4049 

CD4050 

CD4051 

CD4052 

CD4053 

C04056 

CD4059 

C04060 

CD4066 

CD4068 

CD4069 

CD4070 

CD4071 

CD4072 

CD4073 

CD4075 

CD4076 

CD4078 

CD4081 

CD4082 

C04093 



SN74156N 
SN74157N 
SM74160N 

SN74161N 
SN74162N 
SN74163N 
SN74164N 
SN74165M 
SN74166N 
SN74167N 
SN74170N 
SN74172N 
SN74173N 
SN74174N 
SN74175N 
SN74176N 
SN74177N 
SN74179N 
SN74180N 
SN74181N 
SN74182N 
SN74184N 
SN74185N 
SN74190N 
SN74191N 
SN74192N 
SN74193N 
SN74194N 
SN74195N 
SN74196N 
SN74197N 
SN74198N 
SN74199N 
SN74221N 
SN74251N 
SN74276N 
SN74279N 
SN74283N 
SN74284N 
SN74285N 
SN74365N 
SN74366N 
SN74367N 
SN74368N 
SN74390N 
SN74393N 



16 279 
16 129 
24 4 95 



74LS192 16 

74LS193 16 

74LS194 16 

74LS195 16 

74LS197 14 

74LS221 16 

74LS240 20 

74LS241 20 

74LS242 14 

74LS243 14 

74LS244 20 

74LS245 20 

74LS247 16 

74LS248 16 

74LS249 16 

74LS251 16 

74LS253 16 

74LS257 16 

74L5258 16 

74LS260 14 

74LS266 14 

74LS273 20 

74LS279 16 

74LS283 16 

74LE290 14 

74LS293 14 

74LS298 16 

74LS352 16 

74LS353 16 

74LS365 16 

74LS366 16 

74LS367 16 

74LS368 16 

74LS373 20 

74LS374 20 

74LS375 16 

74LS386 14 

74LS393 14 

74LS399 16 

74LS670 16 

81LS95 20 

81LS97 20 



74S243 
74S244 
74S251 
74S253 
74S257 
74S258 
74S260 
74S2B0 
74S2B7* 
74S288' 
74S373 
74S374 
74S387" 
74S471* 
74S472* 
74S473- 
74S474* 
74S475- 
74S570' 
74S57T 
74S572' 
74S573- 
74S940 
74S941 



CA3089N 
CA3096N 
CA3130E 
C A3 HOE 
CA3160H 
CA3401N 
CA36O0N 



CD4098 16 

C04506 16 

CD4507 14 

C0450B 24 

CD4510 16 

CD4511 16 

CD4512 16 

C04514 24 

C04515 24 

CD4516 18 

CD4518 16 

CD4519 16 

CD4520 16 

CD4526 16 

CD4528 16 

CD4529 16 

CD4543 16 

C04562 14 

CD4566 16 

CD4583 16 

CD4584 14 

CD4723 16 

CD4724 16 

MC144Q9 16 

MC14410 16 

MC14411 24 

112 16 



MC14 



19 16 



MC14433 24 
MC1453B 16 
MC14541 14 



-MICROPROCESSOR CHIPS- 



Part No. "Pins Function 



CDP1802 40 CPU ! 

2650 40 MPU 

IDM2901ADC 40 CPU-4-bit slice (Com Temp. Gr ) . .' 

MCS6502 40 MPU w/Clock (65K Dytesmem ) 

MC6802CP 40 MPU w/Clock and RAM 

INS8Q35N-6 40 MPU-8-Dil(6MKz) 

INS8039N-6 40 CPUSgl cnip8-bit( 128tJtS Rami 

INS8040N-6 40 CPU (256 Dytes RAM) 

INSB07QN 40 CPU (64 Oytes RAM) 

IMS8073N 40 CPU w/Basic Micro Interpreter . . . 

P8085A 40 CPU 

Z80, Z80A, Z80B, Z8000 SERIES — 

40 CPUiMK3880N|l780C}2MHz I 

26 Counter Timer Circuit 

40 Dual Asynchronous Rec /Trans 

40 Direct Memory Access Circuit 

40 Parallel I/O interlace Controller 

40 Serial I/O [TxCB and RxCB Bonderj} . 

40 Serial I/O (Lacks DTRB) 

40 Serial 1/OiLacks SYNCB) 

40 Serial I/O 

40 CPU {MK388ON-4H780C-1 ) 4MH* 

26 Courtier Timer Circuit 



280-CTC 

Z80-DART 

Z80DMA 

7.80-PIO 

Z80-S10/Q 

Z80-S10/1 

Z80-SIO/2 

Z80-S10/9 

Z80A 

280A-CTC 

Z80A-DART 

Z80A-DMA 

Z8DAP10 

Z80A-S1Q/0 

Z80A-S10/1 

Z80AS10/2 

Z80A-S10/9 

Z808 

Z80B-CTC 

Z80B-P10 

Z8O01 

Z8002 

ZB030 

Z8036 

MC68O0 

MC6802CP 

MC6B1QAP; 

MC6B21 

MC6828 

MC6830L8 

MC6850 

MC6852 

MC6860 

MC6862 

MC6880A 

MC6800OL8 



MC68652P2 
MC6866iPB 
SV6522 



40 Direct Memory Access Circuit 

40 Parallel I/O Interface Controller 

40 Serial I/O (TxCB and RiCB bonded) 

40 Serial I/O (Lacks DTRB) . 

40 Serial I/O (Lacks SYNCB) 

40 Serial i/O 

40 CPU (MK3880N-6) 6MHz 

28 Counter Timer Circuit , , 

40 Parallel I/O interlace Controller 

48 CPU Segmented 

40 CPU Non Segmented. 

40 Serial Comm Controller 

40 Counter/Timer& Parallel I/O Uml 

-6800/68000 SERIES 

40 MPU ... 

40 MPU with clock and RAM 

24 128*8 Static RAM 

40 Peripheral Inter Adapt (MC6820) 

24 Priority Inlerrupt Controller 

24 1024x8-0i1 ROM (MC68A30-8) 

24 Asynchronous Comm AOapier 

24 Synchronous Serial Data Adapter 

24 0-600Eps Digital MODEM . . . 

24 2400bps Modulator . . 

16 Quad 3-state Bus trans (MC8T26) 

64 MPU 16-Bit (8MHz) 

40 General Purpose Ini Adapter 

40 Mum Protocol Comm Controller 

26 Enhanced Prog Comm. Int 

40 Peripheral Inter Adapter 



,";iius:.'.. 

TMS5501 

INS8154 

INS82C06 

DP8212 

DP8214 

DPB216 

DP8224 

DP8226 

DPB228 

DP8238 

INSB243 

1NSS24S 

INS8246 

INSB247 

INS8248 

lfJS8250N 

DP8251 

DPB253 

DP8255 

DP8257 

DP8259 

DP827i 

DP8279 

DP8303 

DP8304 

DP8307 



-8080A SERIES - 



40 CPU 

40 Synchronous Data Interlace (SIRC) 

40 1288yleRAM 16-8HI/0 

20 Octal 6 Flip Flop Tri-Stale (74C3741 

24 8-bit Input/Output ( 74S41 2) 

24 Priority Interrupt Control 

16 Bi- Directional Bus Driver 

16 Clock Generator/Driver 

16 Bus Driver 

28 System Cont /Bus Onver (74S428) 

28 System Conlroller (74S438) 

24 I/O Expander lor 48 Series 

IB 16-Key KeyDoarfl Encoder (74C922} 

20 20-Key Keyooard Encoder (74C923) 

28 Display Controlter (74C91 1 ) . . . 

28 Display Conlroller (74C91 2) 

40 Asyn Comm Element 

28 Prog Comm l/0(USART) 

24 Prog Interval Timer 

40 Prog Peripheral l/D(PPI) 

40 Prog DMA Control 

28 Prog. Interrupt Control . . 

40 Prog CRT Conlroller 

40 Prog Keyboard /Display Interface 

20 8-Bit Tn-State Bi- Directional Trans 

20 8-bu Bi Directional Receiver 

20 8-hil Bi -Directional Receiver 

20 8-Dit Bi Directional Receiver 

20 Octal Latched Peripheral Driver 

20 Octal Latched Peripheral Driver 



"Pinj 



-DYNAMIC RAMS- 



Price 



4027 

4116N-2 

4116N-3 

41I6N-4 

4164N-150 

4164N-200 

MM 5261 

MM5262 

MM5270 

MM5280 

MM5290-2 

MM529D-3 

MM5290-4 

MM529S-3 



15 1024x1 (300ns) .99 
18 4096x1 (250ns) 2.49 

16 16.384x1 (150ns) . .1.3=1 8/14 y:> 
16 16.384x1 (200ns) 1.69-8/12.95 
16 1(5.384x1 (250ns) .1.49-8/10.95 
16 65 536>1 1150ns) .7.95 - 6/59 95 
16 65.536x1 (200ns) 749-8/5495 
18 1024x1 (300ns) 49 8/1.95 

22 2048x1 (365ns) 49 — 6/1.95 

18 4096x1 (250ns)MK4Q96 4.95 

22 4096x1 (200ns) 2107 

16 16,384x1 (150ns) 

16 16,384x1 (200ns) 

16 16.384x1 (250ns) 

16 8192x1 (200ns) 

STATIC RAMS- 

256x1 (650ns| 



1.89-8/14.95 
1 69-8/12.95 
1 49 8/10 95 



16 1024x1 
18 256x4 
16 256x4 



2114L-2 
2141-3 
2147 

2148 

TMS4044 

TMS4045 

5101 

MM 52 57 

HM6115P-3 

HM6116-4 

HM6116LP-' 

7489 

74C920 

74C921 

74C929 

74C930 

MS 189 

74S200 

74S206 

74S2B9 

82S10 

82S25 



2.49 
89 
1.49 
2 95 
2.95 

1 95-8/1395 

2 25-8/15.95 
2 25-8/15.95 
2 49-8/1795 

3.95 
4 95 
8.95 
.395 
395 



MICROPROCESSOR MANUALS & DATA BOOKS 



M-Z30 

M-CDP1802 

M-2650 

30003 

30008 

30011 

30013 



Manual 
User Manual 
User Manual 
1982 Nat Linear B 



1983 Zilog Data Book (64ipg.) 
-SPECIAL FUNCTION - 



DSOQ25CN B Dual MOS Clock Driver {'Ml) 2 49 

OS0026CN 8 Dual MOS Clock Driver (5MZ) .1.95 

INS1771N-1 40 Floppy Disk Controller 16 95 

INS265IN 28 CommunicalionChlp . . . ..8.95 

MM58167N 24 Microprocessor Real Time Clock 8 95 

MM58174N 16 Micro Compalible Time Clock 7 95 

COP402N 40 Microcontroller w/64-digit RAM . 5.95 

and Direct LED Drive 
COP402MN 40 Microprocessor w/64-digit RAM 5 95 

& Direct LED Drive w/N Buss Int 
COP470N 20 32seg VAC Fluor Drvr (20-pin pkg.) 3 25 

MM5369EST 8 Prog Oscillator/Divider (100Hz) ... 1 19 



22 256x4 (450ns) 8101 

16 1024x1 (350ns) 

(450ns) L P 
(450ns) 81 11 
(450ns ) MOS 

IB 1024x4 (450ns) 

2114L 18 1024x4 (450ns)LP 

2114-2 18 1024x4 (200ns) 

18 1024x4 (200ns) L. P. 

18 4096x1 (150ns) 

18 4096x1 (70ns) 

18 1024x4 (70ns) 

IB 4096x1 (450ns) 

18 1024x4 (450ns) 

22 256x4 (450ns) CMOS . 

IB 4096x1 (450ns) 4044 . . 

24 3048x8 (150ns) CMOS . 

24 ;WR>S (200ns)CM0S 

24 204Bx8 (200ns) L P CMOS 

16 16x4 (50ns) 

22 256x4 (250ns| CMOS (6551) 

18 256x4 (250ns)CM0S 

16 1024x1 (250nsj CMOS (6501) 

18 1024x1 (250ns) CMOS (6518) 

16 16x4 (35ns) 93405 

16 256x1 (80ns)93410 

16 256x1 (60ns) 93411 

16 16x4 (35ns)3101 

16 1024x1 (50ns)OC (93415) 

16 16x4 (50ns)OC (74S289) 

EPROMS 

24 256x8 (1US) 

24 1024x8 (450ns) 

24 1024x8 (550ns) SM00246 

24 2048x8 (450ns) 2716 

24 4096x8 (450ns ) NMC2532 

28 8192x8 (450ns) . 

24 2048xB (450ns) 3 voilage 

24 2048x8 (450ns) 

24 2048x8 (350ns) 

24 4096x8 (450ns) 

Z4 1024x8 (450ns) single +5V 

28 8192x8 ( 450ns ) 

28 8192x8 (300ns) 

24 8192x8 (450ns) 

IE 32x8 PROMO C. (6330-1) 
PROMT S (6301-1) 
PROMTS (6331-1) 
PROMOC (6300-1) 
PROMT S (6309-1) 
PROMT S (6349-1) 
PROMOC (6348) 
PROMT S IDM87S296NI 
PROM O.C. (6340) 
PROMT S (IBPl'&Shh- 
PROMOC. (6305) 
PROMT S (6306) 
PROM C (6352) 
PROMT S (82S137) 
PROMO C (27S18) 
PROM T S (27S15) 
PROM IS (27S19) 
PRUM u C (27S20) . 
PROM1 S (27S21) 
PROMO C.(27S12j 
2048x4 PROMT S (TBP24SB1) 
u 1024x8 PROMO C (82S180) 
24 1024x8 PROM T.S.(82Siaii 
16 2048x4 PROMOC (82S184I 
18 2048x4 PROMT S (B2S185) 
24 2048x4 PROMOC (82S190) 
24 2048x8 PROMTS (82S191) 

— OATA ACQUISITION 

Mosien DC/DC Convert +5VIO-9V 



3 95 
2,25 

.3.95 
2.25 



1702A 

2708 

2708-5 

TMS2516 

TMS2532 

TMS2564 

TMS2716 

2716 

2716-1 

2732 

27580 

MM 2764 

MM2764-3 

M CM 68 764 

74S1B8 

74S287 

74S28B 

74S387 

74S471 

74S472 

74S473 

74S474 

74S475 

74S478 

74S570 

74S571 

74S572 

74S573 

82S23 

82S115 

82S123 

82S126 

82S129 

82S130 

82S1B5 

DM87S180N 

|jMa.-G-l81N 

DM87S1B4N 

DM873185N 

DM87S190N 

DMB7S191N 



256x4 

16 32x8 

16 256x4 

20 256x8 

20 512x8 

20 512x8 

24 512x8 

24 512x8 

24 1024x8 

16 512x4 

16 512x4 

18 1024x4 

18 1024x4 

16 32x8 

24 512x8 

16 32x8 

16 256x4 

16 256x4 

16 512x4 



18 8-Dit D/A Converter (DAC0808LCN i 

20 8t>it A/D Converter [1 LSB) 

16 8-DU D/A Converter (0 78% Lin ) 

28 8-tHtA/DConverier(8-Cti. Muiti ) 

40 8-oiiA/DConvener|t6Xh Muiti ) 

24 10-5H D/AConv Micro Comp (0 05S 

20 10-BitD/AConv Micro Comp (0 20"/! 

16 10-DitD/AConv (0 05WLin ) 

16 10-bitD/AConv (0 20% Lin ) 

IB 12-DitD/AConu (0 20% Lin ) 

AF10O-1CN 16 Universal Active Filter 2 5% 

AF121-1CJ 24 Touch Tone Low Band Filter 

AF122-1CJ 24 Touch Tone High Band Filler 

LM334Z Conslant Current Source 

LM335Z Temperature Transducer 

LM399H Temp Comp Prec Ret ( 5ppm/C") 

AY-5-1013A 40 30K Baud Uart (TK1602) 



MC1408L8 

ADC0804 

DAC0806 

ADC0809 

ADC0817 

D AC 1000 

DAO008 

DAC1020 

DAC1022 

DAC1222 



QUALITY COMPONENTS AT 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! 



LOW PROFILE 
(TIN) SOCKETS 



14 pin LP 
16 pin LP 

18 pin LP 



SOLDERTAIL (GOLD) 
STANDARD 



16 pin SG 
18 pin SG 
24 pin SG 



WW 



SOLDERTAIL 
STANDARD (TIN) 



DT1050 — Applications: Teaching aids, 
appliances, clocks, automotive, telecommunica- 
tions, language translations, etc. 

The DT1050 Is a standard D1GITALKER kit encoded with 137 separate 
and useful words, 2 tones, and 5 different silence durations. The 
words and tones have been assigned discrete addresses, making it 
possible to output single words or words concatenated into phrases 
or even sentences. The "voice" output of the DT1050 is a highly In- 
telligible male voice. Female and children's voices can be synthesiz- 
ed. The vocabulary Is chosen so thai It is applicable to many pro- 
ducts and markets, 

Th« DT105O consists of a Speech Professor Chip, MM54104 (40 pin) 
and two (2) Speech ROMs MM52164SSR1 and MM52164SSR2 (24-pin) 
along with a Master Word list and a recommended schematic 
diagram on the application sheet. 

DT1050 Digitaiker™ $34.95 ea. 



DT1057 — Expands the DT1050 vocabulary 
from 1 37 to over 260 words. Incl. 2 ROMs and specs. 

DT1057 $24.95 ea. 

Si 



PirtNo. "Pins Function 



70451PI 

7045EV/KI!- 

7106CPL 

FE0203D 

7106EV/KH" 

7107CPL 

7107EV/KI1- 

7116CPL 

7117CPL 

7201IUS 

7205IP6 

7205£V/Kif 

7206CJPE 

7206CEV/KH* 

7207AIPD 

72Q7AEV/KH* 

7208IPI 

7209IPA 

7215IPG 

721SEV/KH' 

7216AIJI 

7216CIJI 

7216DIPI 

7217IJT 

7217AIPI 

7224 IPL 

7226AIJL 

7226AEV/KIP 



CMOS Precision Timer 

SlopwalchCnip.XTL 

Vh Digit A/D (LCD Drive) 

3V? Digit LCD Display tor 7106 & 71 1 

IC. Circuit Board. Display 

Z'h Digit A/D (LEO Drive) 

IC. Circuit Board. Display 

3Vi Oigit A/D LCDOis HLD 

3Vj Digit A/DLED Dis. 

Low Battery Volt Indicator 

CMOS LED Stopwatch /Timer 

SlopwalchCrtip.XTL 

Tone Generator 

Tone Generator Cnip, XTL 

Oscillator Controller 

Freq Counter Chip, XTL 
Seven Decade Counter 

Clock Generator 

4 Func. CMOS Stopwaich CKT 
4 Func StoDwatcti Chip. XTL 

6 Digit Untv Counter C. A 

8 Digit Freq Counter C A 

8 Digit Free;. Counter C.C. .. 

4 Digit LED Up/Down Counter C A 
d Digit LED Up/Down Counter C.C. 
li",0 4 , .' : Digit Up Counter DRI 

8 Digit Univ. Counter 

5 Function Counter Cnip. XTL 



9 95 
19.95 
34 95 



130009 1983 INTERSIL Data Book ti356p) . . . $9.95 I 



moucr, 74HC High Speed CMOS 

























.75 


74HC138 


16 


1.49 


74HC259 


1B 


1.49 






75 


74HC139 


ID 


1.49 


74HC265 


14 


m 




14 


69 


74HC147 


16 


1.19 


74HC280 


14 


4 95 






75 


74HC151 


16 


1 19 


74HC373 


20 


3Ub 






75 


74HC153 


16 


.99 


74HC374 


n 


395 






75 


74HC157 


16 


1 19 


74KC390 


is 


1 49 








74HC158 


16 


1.59 


74HC393 


14 


1.49 




14 


65 


74HC160 


16 


1 79 


74HC533 


20 


3.95 






.75 


74HC161 


is 


1 79 


74HC534 










75 


74HC164 


14 


1 79 


74HC595 




375 




14 


.75 


74HC165 


16 


2.39 


74HC588 












74HC173 


16 


1.59 


74HC4002 


14 


79 




14 


75 


74HC174 


16 


1.39 


74HC4020 


16 


2 19 




14 


99 


74HC175 


16 


1.39 


74HC4024 


14 




74HC75 


1ft 


.99 


74HCI92 


16 


1 39 


74HC4040 










.75 


74HC193 


16 


1.39 










If. 


2,19 


74HC194 


ih 


1.59 


74HC4075 


14 






14 


.99 


74HC195 


IS 


1.49 


74HC4078 








14 


.75 


74HC242 


14 


279 


74HC4511 


IS 


3.29 






1 39 


74HC243 


14 


2 79 


74HC4514 








16 


75 


74HC251 


16 


1 19 


74HC453B 


16 


7 98 


74HC113 


14 


75 


74HC253 


IS 


99 


74HC4543 






/4hCU04 


5 unO 


j tiered 


\\\ others are 


Buffer 


"d Se 


nd £.30 for C 


ata Sheet 



^Programmable Array Logic (PALS) 



Pari No. 



'Pins Function 



PAL10H8 20 Octal 10-lnput AND-OR Gate Array (High Outputl 

PAL12H6 20 He* 12-lrtput AND-OR Gale Array |Hign0u1puI) . 

PAL14H4 20 Quad 14-lnputAND(JR Gale Array (High Output) . . . 

PAL10L8 20 Octal 10-lnput AND-OR invert Gate An ay (Low Output) 

PAL12L6 20 He« 12-lnput AND-OH- Invert Gate Array [Low Output) 

PAL14L4 20 Quad 14-lnpul AND-OR Invert Gate Array (Low Outputl 

PAL16L8 20 OciaMb-lnpur ANDOR- invert Gate Array (Low Output) 

PAL16B8 20 Oclal lb-Input Register AND-OR Gale Array 

PAL16R6 20 Hex 16-lnpu! Register AND-OR Gate Array 

i'AI 11:11.1 £0 U.l -A -.1, ,■■■;■: I..! ■■.,.i.".l. I A il : 'jH !.,.■:> ,V ., 



[30012 1982NATIONALPALDataBook ( i76 P ) .$5.95! 



WIRE WRAP SOCKETS 
(GOLD) LEVEL #3 



8 pin WW 
10 pin WW 
14 pin WW 
16 pin WW 
18 pin WW 
20 pin WW 
22 pin WW 
24 pin WW 
26 pin WW 
36 pin WW 

40 pin WW 



$10.00 Minimum Order — U.S. Funds Only 
California Residents Add 6'/i% Sales Tax 
Shipping — Add 5% plus $1.50 Insurance 
Send S.A.S.E. tor Monthly Sales Flyer! 



Spec Sheets — 30c each 
Send $1.00 Postage for your 
FREE 1983 JAMECO CATALOG 
Prices Subject to Change 



MasterCard 




VISA" 



1355 SHOREWAY ROAD, BELMONT, CA 94002 
7/83 PHONE ORDERS WELCOME — (475) 592-8097 Telex: 176043 



74C00 
74C02 
74C04 
74C0B 
74C10 
74C14 
74C20 
74C30 
74C32 
74C42 
74C48 
74C73 
74C74 
74C85 
r4C86 
74C89 
74C90 
74C93 



14 



74C95 
74C107 
74C15t 
74C154 
74C157 
74C160 
74C161 
74C162 
74C163 
74C164 
74C173 
74C174 
74C175 
74C192 
74C193 
74C195 



74C221 
74C240 
74C244 
74C373 
74C374 
74C901 
74C903 
74C906 
74C911 
74C912 
74C915 
74C917 
74C922 
74C923 
74C925 
74C926 
80C95 
B0C97 



TL071CP 

TL072CP 

TL074CN 1 

1L081CP 

TL082CP 

TL084CN 1 

LM301CN 

LM302H 

LM304H 

LM305H 

LM307CN 

LM30BCN 

LM309K 

LM310CN 

LM311CN 

LM312M 

LM317T 

LM3I7K 

LM318CN 

LM319N 

LM320K-5 

LM320K-12 

LM320K-15 

LM320T-5 

LM320I-12 

LM320T-15 

LM323K 

LM324N 

LM337T 

LM338K 

LM339N 

LM340K-5 

LM340K-12 

LM340K-15 



LM340T-5 

LM3401 12 

LM340T-15 

LM348N 1 

LM350K 

LF355N 

LF356N 

LM370N 1 

LM373N 1 

LM377N 

LM380N 

LM3B1N 

LM382N 1 

LM384N : 

LM386N-3 

TL494CN 

TL496CP 

NE510A 

NE529A 

NES31V 

NE536H 

NE540H 

NE544N 

NE550A 

NE555V 

LM556N 

NES64N 

LM565N 

LM566CN 

LM56/V 

NE570N 

LM703CN 



LM723N 
LM733N 


14 
14 


55 

i BO 


LM739N 


14 


1 95 


LM741CN 


S 


.35 


LM747N 


14 


M 


LM748N 


s 


59 


LM1310N 


14 


1 49 


LM145BCN 


B 


59 


LM1488N 


14 


69 


LM1489N 


14 


m 


LM1496N 


14 


1 95 


LM1800N 


it> 


1.49 


LM1889N 


IB 


1 9t> 


LM1896N 


14 


2 95 


LM2002T 




1 49 


LM3189N 


16 


1 59 


LM3900N 


14 


59 


LM3905CN 


B 


1 19 


LM3909N 


S 


99 


LM3914N 


18 


3 49 


LM3915N 


11 


3 49 


LM3916N 


IB 


3 49 


RC4136N 


14 


1.25 


RC4151NB 


8 


1 95 


NE5532 


B 


2 49 


NE5534 


8 


1 fi9 


ICL8038B 


14 


3.95 


LM13080N 


B 


1 19 


LM1360ON 


18 


1 19 


MORE AVAILABLE 



1 30003 1982 Nat. Linear Data Book i»M pgs ) $11.9^ 



548 BYTE July 1983 



Circle 220 on inquiry card. 





Wall Transformers 
AC and DC Types 






AC 250 (above) 117V/60H* 



Output 



AC 500 
AC 1000 
AC9004 
DC 800 
DC6912 
DC5490 
DC900 
DC1200 
DV9200 



I17W60H* 
117V(6QHz 
117V(60Hz 
120W60H7 
120V/60HZ 
117V(80Hz 
120W60Hz 
120VI60HZ 
117V(60Hz 



12VAC 250mA 
12VAC 500mA 

12VAC t amp 

9.2VAC2.5amp 
BVDC 400mA 
6.9.12VDC 300mA . 

9.5VDC 275mA 

9VDC 500mA . . . . 
9.5VDC 300mA 
9VDC 200mA 



.S3.95 
S4.95 
S5.95 
$3.95 
$1.95 
S8.95 
$2.95 
$3.95 
S2.95 
$3.25 



A Breeze! 

Lets you work 
with both hands. 
Sturdy alum 



Clamp "3rd Hand" on edge of bench table or workboard. Insert cir- 
cuit board, position components. Notice convenient working angle. 
Flip circuit board to Hat position tor soldering and clipping Reverse 
procedure tor double-sided boards. 
PCB-3 $13.95 



Mostek DC/DC Converter 
+ 5 VOLTS TO -9 VOLTS 

Input. + 5V. Output: -9V (regulated) @ 30mA. 

DC10 $2.95ea.or2/$4.95 



ameco Digital Thermometer Kit 




controls for indoor'outdoor 
or dual monitoring — can be 
extended to 500 feet. Con- 
tinuous LED 8" tit. display 
Range -40°Fto 199°F, -40°C 
to 100 X. Accuracy ±1" 
nominal. Calibrate tor 
Fahrenheit/Ce 



lated > 



. AC 



JE300 $39.95 



I adapter included Size: 



RADIO CONTROL CIRCUITS 



Ideal to use for: 

• Toys, hobby cralts, robots, train 

• Burglar alarms • IH data link 

■ Remote slide projector control 

■ Consumer remote data links 



« Energy-saving, remotely switched lighting systems I—. — ' 
A complete c -channel digital encoder and RF transmitter; low power. 
at frequency of 27MHz or 49MHz, a Held strength of tO.OOOi/V meter 
at 3 meters. 9V operation on chip RF oscillatorMransmitter, on chip 
4 6 regulator Up to 80MHz carrier frequency operation. 

LM1871N RC Encoder/Transmitter Chip . $1.95 

A complete RF receiverfdecoder. used at either 27MMz, 49MHz or 
72MHz It provides 4 independent channels when used with LM1871 
(2 analog, 2 dig. I operates from (our 1.5V cells, Crystal controlled. 

LM1 872N RC Receiver/Decoder Chip $2.49 



SRX1504 
SRX1505 



49.435MHz Crystal (LM1872N) 
49.890MHz Crystal (LM1871N) . 



.$3.95 
$3.95 




ATARI PADDLES 

JSP (2) $4.95 pair 

ATARI DRIVER 

JSD(1) $2.95 ea. 



TV GAME SWITCH 

Used on Atari. Cosmet- 
ically blemished. 100% 
functional. 

TGS-1 . . . $2.95 ea. 



$6.95 
$9.95 



BOOKS 

NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR - INTERSIL - INTI 

National Linear Data Book (1982) 

(1376 pages) LM, LF, ADC. DAC, LH Series 

National Memory Data Book (1930) 

(464 pages) RAMs. ROMs. PROMs, EPROMs Series 



30010 National Audio/fladio Handbook (1980) $5.95 
(240 pages) Pre-Amps, AM, FM & FM Stereo. Power Amps 

30011 National Linear Application Handbook (1980) $15.95 

(736 pages) Application Notes, Linear Briets, etc, 

30012 National PAL Data Book (1982) . , . $5.95 

(176 pages] Application Notes, Linear Briefs, etc. 

30013 Zilog Data Book (1983) .. S7.B5 

(641 pages] Microprocessors and Support Chips 

210630 Intel Memory Components Handbook (1983) $14.95 



Zilog Data Book (1963) 

(641 pages] Microprocessors and Support Chips 

Intel Memory Components Handbook (1983) 

(793 pages) Contains all Application Notes, Article 

Reprints, Data Sheets, and other design information 

on Intel's RAMs, EPROMs. E'PROMs & Bubble Memories. 

Intel Microprocessors! Peripheral Handbook(1983) . . $14.95 
(1027 pages) Contains Data Sheets on all of 
Intel's Microprocessors and Peripherals. 



Universal 




Computer Keyboard Enclosures 



DTE"' Blank Desk-Top tndosun 

are designed for easy modifica- 
tion High strength epoxy molded 
end pieces in mocha Brown limsti 
Sliding rear/ bottom panel tor service/ 
■*" component access'. Top/oott psnetB 080" 
thick alum aiodine type 1200 fbnish (gold linl 
color) tor besl paint adhesion after modification 
Vented top & Bottom panels so' iuoung tllicienty 
Rigid construction provides unlimited appttcations 
AssemOly instructions included. 

DTE-8 Panel Width 7.5" $24.95 

DTE-11 Panel Width 10.13" $27.95 

DTE-14 Panel Width 13.5" $29.95 

DTE-20 Panel Width 19.25" $34.95 



U I c 

L DTE 



TIMEX 



Sinclair- iddd 



• Powerful - fully programmable 2K 
memory • Portable - 6'/ a " x 6%" x IV - 12 
oz. • Expandable - Optional 16K RAM 
module • Single-key entry commands 

• Educational • Unique syntax-check report 
codes for error identity • Accurate to 9% 
decimal places for full range math and 
scientific functions • Graph drawing and 
animated display • Advanced 4-chip design 
combining power, portability and 
affordable price. 

TS1000 $69.95 




ACCESSORIES FOR Hl,',l=*:i Sinclair-' 1000 and ZXB1 



■UT,M^:g ~sinc:li3ir" 1016^1 Expansion trom2KU>16K. site: 3". 



TS1016 $49.95 



Sir" 8 0« 10 32 column thermal primer (4 lbs) 



TS2040 $99.95 



Keyboard Mask for Your 
ZX81/1000* Computer 




Dice ousr sy (..—-_ 



JE6B1 KEYBOARD MASK 



ZX81/1000* Keyboard 
Conversion Kit 




JE682-AK Keyboard Conversion Kit 
JE682 Keyboard Conversion Kit ... . 



S99.95ea. 
$59.95 ea. 



80-Key Keyboard 




CA1 50C $69.95 



84-Key Keyboard 



CA153A. 



$69.95 



95-Key Keyboard 



CA154A $79.95 




CONTROL DATA KEYBOARDS 

* Parallel ASCII 

* SPST Switching 

* FTZ Shielded Base 

* N-Key Rollover 

* 128 Character ASCII 

* Non-Slip, Non-Glare Keycaps 

* CDC752 Terminal Keyboards 

* Attractive Case 

These Control Data Keyboards consist of a 
base, cover, the keyboard assembly, and an in- 
terface cable. Color (case): Harvest gold and 
black. Color (keycaps): Black, blue, and red. 
Electrical requirements: +5V @ 600mA, -12V 
@ 50mA. Weight: 6 lbs. All units brand new in 
original boxes, specifications included. 



Keytronics 90-Key Soft-Programmable Keyboard 



WITH SECURITY KEYLOCK SWITCH 



> RFI shielded 
' Cursor controls 
' Numeric keyboard 
i B-bil Parallel 
' Capacitance keys 

> 10 user-programmable keys 
■ Positive TTL Logi 



17"L » 



W 




Made for Visual Technology, (his keyboard features: a security Keylock (includes two keys) to guard again 
unauthorized use. an 11-key numeric keypad; cursor controls; and 10 user-programmable keys Electrical re- 
quirements: + 5VDC. Color (case): While Color (keycaps): Black. Complete with case, keyboard assembly, 
40-inch interface cable, anrj schematics. Weight: 7 lbs. 

Part No. KB270 $109.95 each 



J 



MICRO SWITCH B5-KEY KEYBOARD 

word Processing Keyboard. 26 Pin Edge Card Connection Supply Voltage + 5vOC. Main Keyboard 
is QWERTY. Additional Key Pads for Cursor and word processing functions. 

Part No. 85SD1B-1 ...$29.95 each 



Hl-TEK 14-KEY NUMERIC KEYPAD 

SPST switching. Charcoal grey keycaps Mounted o 

PartNo.K-14 



ALPS 29-KEY CALCULATOR KEYBOARD 

Features one B-posrtion decimal select switch, one 3-position switch, and tv 
mechanical SPST switching, 22-pin edge card c 
Part NO. KB297040 (fit* DTfi-1 1 Enclosure 



POWER SUPPLY + 5VDC @ 1 AMP REGULATED Transaction Tech 

Output +5VDC[&-' I A (also +3uVSc|reg Input 115VAC 60Hz 2-tone (black/beige) sell-enclosed 



!"W i 7"D > VU 



I Wt. 3 lbs Data sheet trie I 
S14.95Bach 



POWER SUPPLY + 5VDC & 3 AMP REGULATED 

Input' 11SVAC. 47-440H; Oulpul 5Y0C Adjustable Q 3 amp. BVDC 
rent limit. Ripple & Noise 1MV rms. 5MV p-p - 2 mi 
4'aV'L x Z-7/16"H - wt. 2 lbs Data sheet included 
Part No QPS-1 



Deltton 
. . ip. Adjustable cur- 

irlaces. UL recognized Size:4"W< 



POWER SUPPLY +5VDC @ 7.5 AMP, 12VDC @ 1.5 AMP SWITCHING 

Input: 115VAC. 50-60HZ n 3 amp/230VAC. 50H.T (a 1.6 amp Fan volt. /power supply select swit- 
115/230VAC] Output 5V0C (a 7.6 amp, 12V0C?/ 1.6 amp. 8 ft blk. pow. card 1Vfe"Wx 

539.95 each 



13V*"Dx3 J /i 

Part No. PS94V0S 



POWER SUPPLY 4-Channel Switching - Apple Compatible 

Microprocessor mini-computer, terminal, medical equipment and process confrol applications In- 
put 90-130VAC 47-440H; Output: +5VDC m 5A. -5VDC in 1A T 12VDC ![,: 1A. -12VDC ,a 1A. 
Linereq ±0 2% Ripple: 30mv p-p Load reg . ±1% Overcurrent protection. Adj: 5V main out- 
put ±10%. 6-3/B"L x 1-7/B"Wx 4-1S/WH, Wt. IVt lbs. 

Part No. FCS-604A SB9.95 each 



$10.00 Minimum Order — U.S. Funds Only 
California Residents Add $Vt% Sales Tax 
Shipping — Add 5% plus $1.50 Insurance 
Send S.A.S.E. for Monthly Sales Flyer! 



Spec Sheets — 30c each 
Send $1.00 Postage tor your 
FREE 1983 JAMECO CATALOG 
Prices Subject to Change 




SHE 



ameco 



ELECTRONICS 



1355 SHOREWAY ROAD, BELMONT, CA 94002 
7/83 PHONE ORDERS WELCOME — (415) 592-8097 Telex: 176043 





2708,2716,2732 & 2764 EPROM Programmer 

JE664 EPROM PROGRAMMER 

8K TO 64K EPROMS — 24 AND 28 PIN PACKAGES 

— PROGRAMS 2716'S IN 16 SECONDS — 

• Programs, validates, and checks lor properly erased EPROMs • Emulates PROMs 
or EPROMs ■ RS232C Computer Interface for editing/ program loading • Loads data 
info HAM by keyboard • Changes data in RAM by keyboard • Loads RAM from an 
EPflOM • Compares EPHOMs for content differences • Copies EPROMs • Power In- 
put: 115VAC. 60Hz •• I0W power consumption • Enclosure: Color-coordinated, 
light tan panels w/moldet) mocha brown end pieces • Size: 15-5/B"L x 8V0 < 
3Vj"H ■ Wt : bit lbs. 

JE664-A EPROM Programmer $995. OQ 



A-iserr-rj CO & TeslcrJ ( 



les JMI6A Module; 



JE665 - RS232C INTERFACE OPTION - n»*665fl^a?e'bttfirtaca 

Oolii.n I't'ii-f'Ti-'ih, f.i:.|i-.[),irer JCijeSi iO ihf.,Lb>i'i ■■, HAM S.jinBic iOll'.v.lit: wpil^n in 
BASK pravMMI for TRS-80" Model I. Level II Computer Baud rate: 9600 Word 
Lgtn 8 hUS oorJ parity Slop Cits. 2 Option may be adapled 10 Other computers 

JE664-ARS EPROM Prog . W/JE665 Option $1195.00 

Asaen'D'tii: i'"id I u j>.i! in' ■.!,:■:■. . V i'.A Module i 

EPROMJUMPER MODULES - The JLbS4-s JUMPER MODULE (Pt-rbiinali- 

!y Mc.'CL.ici ii ■! ;:lui!iii Mi;i:-ilr :h,il pn---eL, Jtiili4 I or :nopei [i'uqi,:i:i j uij!j>:5 '0 

■iii:i ii-'HOM & configures EPROM socket connections, for that particulsr EPROM 

Part 

No. EPROM EPROM MANUFACTURER PRICE 



JM08A 
JM16A 
JM16B 
JM32A 
JM32B 
JM32C 
JM64A 

JM64B 
JM64C 
JM640 



2700 

2716.TMS2S16 

TMS2716 

TMS2b32 

2732 

373ZA(21V) 

MCM68764, 

MCM68L76'! 

2764 

TMS2b64 

HN482764G-4 



Motorola. II ( +5.-1 
Molorola, Tl 
AMO.Fuiifsu.MEC.H 
Fujitsu, Intel 



S14.95 
$14.95 



EXPAND YOUR MEMORY 



TRS-80 to 16K, 32K, or 48K 

"-Mode! 1 = From 4K to 16K Requires (1) One Kit 
Model 3 = From 4K to 48K Requires (3) Three Kits 
Color = From 4K to 16K Requires (1) One Kit 

"Model t equipped with Expansion Board up to 48K Two Kits Required 
— One Kit Required for each 16K of Expansion — 

TRS-16K3 "200ns for Color & Model III $12.95 

TRS-16K4*250ns for Mode! I $10.95 



TRS-80 Color 32K or 64K Conversion Kit 



Kit comes complete with 8 each 4164-2 (200ns) 64K dynamic RAMs 
and conversion documentation Converts TRS-80 color computers 
with D and E circuit boards, and all new coior computers to 32K 
Minor modifications of 32K memory will allow the use of all 64K of 
the dynamic RAM providing you have a FLEX DOS operating system 

TRS-64K2 $54.95 



IBM MEMORY EXPANSION KIT 



SAVE HUNDREDS OF $$$ BY UPGRADING 
MEMORY BOARDS YOURSELF! 

Most ol the popular memory boards allow you to arJ 
64K, 12BK. 192K, or 2S6K. The IBM64K Kit will popula 
in 64K byte increments. The kit is simple to install - 



additional 
t insert the 



I8M64K (Nine 200ns 64K RAMs) $59.95 



SVa" Mini-Floppy Disk Drive 

FOR TRS-80 MODEL I (Industry Standard) 

Features Single or double density. Recording 
mode: FMsmglf; MFM duub'L- density. Power: 
+ 12VDC(±0.6V) 1.6Amax, +5VDC I ± 0.25V) 
O.HA max. Unit as pic at right (does not incl. 
case, power supply, cables). 30-pg. data book 
incl. Wt. 3 1 /? lbs. Size: 5 9 4"W « 8"D x 3V, "H. 
Part No. Limited Quantity! Price 

FD200 $179.95 

Single-sided, 40 tracks, 250K bytes capacity 

FD250 $199.95 

Double-sided. 35 tracks. 43BK bytes capacity 




8" FLOPPY DISK DRIVE 



Shugart 801R 
compatible 

• Single-Sided 

• 77 Tracks 
> 400/800K Bytes 

Capacity 

• Industry Standard 

The FDD100-B 8" Floppy Disk Drive [Industry Standard) features 
single or double density. Recording mode: FM single, MFM double 
density. Transfer rate: 250K bits/sec single density: 500K bits/sec. 
double density. The FDD100-8 is designed to work with the single- 
sided soft sectored IBM Diskette I. or eq. disk cartridge Power: 
115VAC @ 50-60HZ, + 24VDC @ 1.7 amps max., + 5VDC @ 1.2 amps 
max. Unit as pictured above (does not include case, power supply, or 
cables). Size: 8.55"W x 14"L x 4.5"H. Weighs 12 lbs. Incl. 96-pg. 
manual. 
Part No. Price 

FDD100-8 . $1 69.95 ea. 




UV-EPROM Eraser 



8 Chips — 51 Minutes! 



[ 1 Chip — 37 Minutes 



Erases 2708, 2716, 2732. 2764, 2516, 2532. 2564. Erases up to 8 chips 
within 51 minutes (1 chip in 37 minutes). Maintains constant exposure 
distance of one inch. Special conductive foam liner eliminates static 
build-up. Built-in safety lock to prevent UV exposure. Compact — only 
9.00" x 3.70" x 2.60". Complete with holding tray for 6 chips. 

DE-4 UV-EPROM Eraser . . . S 79.95 . 
UVS-11EL Replacement Bulb s 16.95^/ 



Circle 220 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 549 



> Z>-CQMPUTER 




MICROPROCESSORS 



16K Apple™ Ramcard 




LIST 195 
ACP 

95 



$ 59 



• Full 1 year warranty 
Top quality — gold fingers 
Expand Apple II 48K to 64K 
Compatible with Z-80 Softcard" 

NOW AVAILABLE 

Apple lie 64K Add-in Memory t __ „ 

*1 AQ95 



with 80 Columns 



$1 49 9 



32K STATIC RAM 

2 or 4 MHz 
Expandable 

Uses 
21141/s 

16K4MHzKit $159 95 

1BK4MH2AST ., „ „ 21795 

32K 4 MHz Kit * n ^ a - ao "28*06. 

1 32K 4 MHZ A&T • 339.00 

BARE BOARD 39.95 




Bare Bdw/all parts less mem. 



9.95 



REPEAT OF SELL-OUT 
58 Key Unencoded Keyboard 

S 19 9S e. 

This is a new 58 key terminal Keyboard 
manufactured by a major manufacturer. 
It is uncoded with SPST keys unat- 
tached to any PC board. Solid molded 
plastic 1 1" x4" base. 

Unencoded 
Key Pad 

1 5 key Keypad with 
1-10 keys and lab, 
return, (-), (;} and (.). 



64K CMOS 




nft 6116IC's 

00 5Volt 
Single Supply 
Assm and Tested 



INTEL "''-' n! --' sc 



RAMS 

Super Fast! 

Super 
Low Power* 



Part No. 2147 $1.95 ea. 



t^ 



% 



UV "EPROM" 

ERASER 

Model 

DE-4 

$89.95 

Holds 4 EPROM's 
at a time 
Model S-52T S325.00 




16K Memory 
Expansion Kits 

for Apple/TRS-80 
$12.95 



8 pcs4116 16K 
200/250nS 
Specify computer 
CALL FOR VOLUME PRICING 



CORCOM FILTER 

Popular 
CORCOM 
3* "tor 

'eam PS S 4 95 
Compatible Line Cord Add ... $3.50 



I 



9 pes 4164 

D-RAM 



$ 



50 



00 



AMD MODEM IC 

^^^f^P/N AM7910 
^g^SmSk !200Baud 
^PP P 5 Volts 



Special ACP Price 



sggoo 



STEPPER MOTOR 

Operates by applying 
12VDC in one direc- 
tion and then revers- 
ing polarity (or square 
wave). Uses 12VDC, 
V^/ Clock Wise Rotation, 
ai~q Rated 3 RPM at 4 

a £ PPS - With a 5 de 9 ree 
PRICE stepping angle. 

$495 

Oei 




Ba. 10 for $34.95 



RS232 SIGNAL TESTER 

COEX RS232 
Line Tester 

(7) LED indicators 

only £4 

Other Styles Also Available 



INTEL CODEC IC 

P/N2910A 
For Digital 

Voice 
SQ95 

3 ea. 

For Filter P/N 2912A $4.95 ea. 



lUUCb lb 




SURGE 
SUPPRESSOR 

"Surgeonics" 
Power Sentry 



15 Amps 250 Volts 
transient suppression 
ACP $, 

Low Price 



s 39 9! 



CONNECTORS 



DB25P {RS232) 

DB25S Female 

Hood 

Set with Hood, Sale 

22/44 S/T, KIM 

43/86 S/T, MOT 

50/100 $-100 Connector W/W 

50/100 S-100 Connector S/T 



$3 25 
3.75 
1.25 
7.50 
2.95 
6.50 
4.95 
3.95 



PARALLEL ALPHA NUMERIC 
PRINTER 



yJtw 

(■f -TF^Hp 1 9 Column Printer prints 1 6 numerical columns plus 3 
^^3BH(^^ columns which have math, alpha and other notations. 
^^^ Each wheel has 12 positions with position 12 blank. 

Position 1 1 on numerical columns have decimal point or # Utilizes 2.75" 
wide adding machine tape and a dual color ink ribbon. Input data parallel 
withfourbitBCDcomparatorcircuit Print rate, 3 lines per second. 
Operating voltage 22-28VDC with typical cycle time of 
340mS. Size 6V 2 "W x 3Vb"H x 5%"Dp. New. $8.95 ea. 3/J 



zsoa 

F-8 (3850) 
2650 



2901 

2901A 

9900JL 

6502 

6502A 

IMS tOO 29.95 

6800 11.75 

6800B 19.95 



9.95 



6802P 

8035 14.95 

8039 12.95 

8073N 34.95 

8755 49.95 
8748 



9.95 
30.00 



68000 129.95 



61 16/2016 $7.95 
-6-4K 5.95 
4116-2 1.99 

4116-2 8/12.95 
2101 3.99 




MOS PROMS 



2764 (8Kx8) TS 
2732 (4Kx8) TS 
2716/2516; 5V 
(2Kx8) TS 
TMS2716. 5V, !2V 
2758, 5V. (450nS) 



7.95 
17.95 
3.50 



270B(450nS) $5.75 
2708 <650nS) 5.25 
1702A 5.75 

MM5203AQ 14.50 
MM5204Q 9.95 



l! l!..^ !l 



2513-001 (5V) Upper 
2513-005 (5V) Lower 
2513-ADM3(5V) Lower 1495 
MCM66710ASCIIStll(terJ12.95 
MCM6674Q Math Symbol 13.95 
MCM66750 Alpha Control 1345 
1771-01 8" S Minifloppy 24 95 
1781 Dual Floppy 29.95 

1791-01 DualFloppy 3695 
1791-02 DualFloppy 44.95 
1793 DD, OS Floppy 44.95 
1797 DD, OS Floppy 54 95 
1691 Dala Separator 18.95 
2143 Clock Generator 18.95 

8700 8 bit Binary 13.50 

8701 10 bil Binary 22.00 
8703 8 bit TS 13.50 
9400 Volt 1o Freq Conv. 7.25 
8750 31* Digit BCD 13.95 
1408L6 6bil 3.95 



$9.50 DAC08 



DACO' ij !■■ 



DAC100 

8038 Function Generator 

MC4024 VC0 

LM566VC0 

XR22QB Function Generator 

TR1602B(5V,12V) 

AV510I3(5V, 12V) 

AY51014A/1612(S-14V) 

AV51015A/1863(5V) 

IM6402 

IM6403 

2350 USHT 

1671BAstro5 i 

MC14411 1 

4702 1 

WD1941 

CQM5Q16 1 

INS825D 1 

AV5-2376 1 

AY5-36G0 1 

MM5740AAC 



E33aa 



^n^ 



8 pin LP 
14 pin LP 
16 pin LP 
18 pin LP 
20 pin LP 
22 pin LP 
24 pin LP 
28 pin LP 
40 pin LP 



3L WIREWRAP 
SOCKETS (GOLD) 



LOW PROFILE 
SOCKETS (TIN) 



1-24 


25-49 


50-100 


.16 


.15 


.14 


.20 


.19 


,18 


.22 


,21 


.20 


.29 


.28 


.27 


.34 


.32 


30 



8 pin WW .55 

10 pin WW (Tin) .65 
14 pin WW .75 

1 6 pin WW .80 

18 pin WW ok 

20 pin WW 
22 pin WW 
24 pin WW 
28 pin WW 



1.15 
1.45 
1.35 
1.60 



40 pin WW 



2.20 



.54 
.63 



.90 
1.08 
1.35 
1.26 
1.53 



.49 
.56 



.81 
.99 
1.23 
1.14 



78H05K 

78M06 

78M.G. 

LM108AH 

LM300H 

LM301 CN 

LM304H 

LM305H 

LM306H 

LM3Q7CN 

LM308CN 

LM309K 

LM310CN 

LM311D/CN 

LM312H 

LM317T 

LM318CN 

LM319N/H 

LM320K-XX- 

LM320T-XX' 

LM320H-XX* 

LM323K 

LM324N 

LM337K 

LM338K 

LM339N 

LM340K-XX* 

LM340T-XX' 

LM340H-XX* 

LM344H 

LM348N 

LM350K 

LM358CN 

LM360N 

LM372N 

LM376N 

LM377N 

LM380CN/N 

LM381 N 

LM383T 

LM386N 

LM387N 

LM390N 

NE531V/T 

NE555V 

NE556N 

NE561T 

NE565N/H 

NE566H/V 

NE567V/H 

NE592N 

LM702H 

LM709N/H 

LM710N/H 

LM711N/H 

LM715N 

LM723N/H 

LM733N/H 

LM739N 

LM741CN/H 

LM741CN-14 

LM747N/H 

LM748N/H 

LM760CN 

LM1310N 

MC1330 

MC1350 

MC1358 



1.75 
1.25 
1.25 
1.95 
1.20 
5.60 



3.75 
2.75 
1,25 
1.79 
1.95 
1.25 
1.40 
1.95 
3.75 
.39 
.98 
19.95 
1.25 
1.75 
1.50 
2.75 
1.99 
.29 
.75 



2.95 
1.90 
1.95 
1.95 
1.75 



LM1414N 

LM1458CN/N 

MC1488N 

MC1489N 

LM1496N 

LM1556N 

LM1B20N 

LM1850N 

LM1889N 

LM2111N 

LM2900N 

LM2901 N 

LM2917N 

CA3013T 

CA3018T 

CA3021T 

CA3023T 

CA3035T 

CA3039T 

CA3046N 

LM3053N 

CA3059N 

CA3060N 

CA3062N 

LM3065N 

CA3080T 

CA3081N 

CA3082N 

CA3083N 

CA3086N 

CA3089N 

CA3096N 

CA3097N 

CA3130T 

CA3140T 

CA3146N 

CA3160T 

CA3190N 

CA3410N 

MC3423N 

MC3460N 

SG3524N 

CA3600N 

LM3900N 

LM3905N 

LM3909N 

LM3914N 

LM3915N 

LM3916N 

RC4131N 

RC4136N 

RC4t51N 

RC41 94TK 

RC4195TK 

ULN2O01 

ULN2003 

SN75450N 

SN75451N 

SN75452N 

SN75453N 

SN75454N 

SN75491 N 

SN75492N 

SN 75493 N 

SN75494N 

TL494CN 

TL496CP 



2.50 
2.95 
2.19 
1,99 
3.49 
2.99 
2.75 
1.29 
1.29 
1.49 
3.19 
3.19 
4.95 



1.19 
2.49 
1.19 



1.49 
3.95 
3.95 



3.75 
3.95 
3.75 
2.95 
1.10 
3.70 
4.95 
5.40 
1.25 
1.50 



74SO0S .39 

74502 .43 

74503 .45 

74504 .52 

74505 .52 

74508 .49 

74509 .49 

74510 .42 

7451 1 ,42 
74S15 .42 
74S20 .42 
74S22 .42 
74S30 .42 
74S32 .49 
74S38 1.19 
74S40 .49 
74S51 .42 

74564 46 

74565 .46 
74S74 .69 
74S86 .72 

745112 .72 

745113 .72 

745114 .72 



74S124 
74S133 
74S134 
74S135 
74S136 
74S138 
74S139 
74S140 
74S151 
74S153 
74S157 
74S158 
74S160 
74S174 
74S1 75 
74S188 
74S194 
74S195 
74S196 
74S240 
74S241 
74S242 
74S243 



74S244 $2.99 

74S251 1.35 

74S253 1 .35 

745257 1.29 

745258 1.29 
74S260 .75 
74S280 2.79 

745287 2.99 

745288 2.55 

745373 310 

745374 3.10 
74S387 2.75 

745471 7.95 

745472 7.95 

745473 7.95 

745474 9.95 

745475 9.95 

745570 5.75 

745571 5.75 

745572 8.95 

745573 8.95 

745940 2.90 

745941 2.90 



DIP 

SWITCHES 



2 Position $ .99 

4 Position 1.19 

5 Position 1.29 

6 Position 1.35 




MUFFIN® FAN 




The dependable, low 
cost, largest selling fan 
for commercial cooling 
applications. 

• 105cfmfreeairdelivery 

• 4.68" sq.x 1.50" deep. 
Weight- 17 oz. 

SPECIAL PURCHASE 
*& $9.50ea 



SUPER IC CLOSEOUT SPECIALS 



14411 

74LS668 

74LS377 

74LS241 

8259 

6561 RAM 

LM733CN 

LM323K 



2/1.99 
6.95 
295 



6571 A 
SIG 2652 
8253 

2758 EPROM 
1802 

Z80A CPU 
6522 
6502 CPU 



8080ACPU $2 95 5027 CRT $9.9 



4.95 
6.95 
5.95 



2102 RAM 

4060 RAM 

2732 6.95 

UPD410 2.9S 

UPD411 2.98 

2708 EPROM 8/29.95 

2114 8/14,50 



3.95 
3.95 
5.99 



2901 

8039 

MM5320 

9131 RAM 

EMM4402 1.99 

10415 4.95 

8700 A/D 2/16.95 



TOLL FREE 

800-854-8230 

mx 
010-595-1505 



11 



4012 
4013 
4014 
4015 
4016 
4017 
4018 
4019 
4020 
4021 
4022 
4023 
4024 
4025 
4027 
4028 

4029 1.29 

4030 .45 

4031 3.25 



1.19 



7402 
7403 
7404 
7405 
7406 
7407 
7408 
7409 
7410 
7411 
7412 
7413 
7414 
7416 
7417 
7420 
7421 
7422 
7423 
7425 
7426 
7427 
7429 
7430 
7432 
7437 
7438 
7439 
7440 
7441 
7442 
7443 
7444 
7445 
7446 
7447 
7448 
7450 
7451 
7453 
7454 
7459 
7460 
7470 
7472 
7473 
7474 



74LS0OS .26 

74LS01 ,28 

74LS02 .28 

74LS03 .28 

74LS04 .35 

74LS05 .28 

74LS08 .28 

74LS09 .35 

74LS10 .28 

74LS1 1 .39 

74LS12 .33 

74LS13 .47 

74LS14 .95 

74LS15 .33 

74LS20 .26 

74LS21 .33 

74LS22 .33 

74LS26 .33 

74LS27 .33 

74LS28 .33 

74LS30 .26 

74LS32 .33 

74LS33 .55 

74LS37 .45 

74LS38 .39 

74LS40 .26 

74LS42 .79 

74LS47 .79 

74LS48 .95 

74LS51 .26 

74LS54 .29 

74LS55 .29 

74LS73 .45 

74LS74 .42 

74LS75 .59 

74LS76 .45 

74LS78 .45 
74LS83A .79 

74LS85 1.19 

74LS86 .45 

74LS90 .57 

74LS92 .75 

74LS93 .75 

74LS95 .88 

74LS96 .98 

74LS107 .45 

74LS109 .45 

74LS112 .43 



4007 
4008 
4009 
4010 



7475 
7476 
7479 
7480 
7482 
7483 
7485 
7486 
7489 
7490 
7491 
7492 
7493 
7494 
7495 
7496 
7497 



74109 
74116 

74121 .29 

74122 ,39 

74123 .59 

74125 .39 

741 26 .44 
74128 ,59 
74132 .69 
74136 .75 
74139 .95 

74141 .79 

74142 2.95 

74143 2.95 

74144 2.95 

74145 .62 
74147 1.95 



.37 



74161 $ .86 

74162 .89 

74163 .87 

741 64 .87 

74165 .87 

74166 1,20 

74167 1.95 
74170 1.69 

74172 4.75 

74173 .79 

741 74 .89 

74175 .85 

741 76 .75 

74177 .75 

74179 1.34 

74180 .75 

74181 1.75 

74182 .75 
74184 2.25 



7418 



3.90 



7414 



1.20 



74150 

74151 .67 

74152 .67 

74153 .67 

74154 1.19 

74155 .78 

74156 .78 

74157 .69 

74158 1.65 

74159 2.49 

74160 .88 



74190 

74191 1.15 

74192 ,85 

74193 .85 

74194 ,85 

74195 .68 

74196 .85 

74197 .85 

74198 1,39 

741 99 1 .39 
74221 1.19 
74251 .95 
74273 1 .05 
74276 1 .89 
74279 .75 

74283 1 .40 

74284 3.90 

74285 3.90 
74290 1 .25 
74298 .95 

74365 .68 

74366 ,68 

74367 .68 

74368 .68 
74390 1 .45 
74393 1 .90 
74490 1 .90 



74LS113S 
74LS114 
74LS122 
74LS123 1 
74LS124 1 
74LS125 
74LS126 
74LS132 
74LS136 
74LS138 
74LS139 
74LS145 1 
74LS148 1 
74LS151 
74LS153 
74LS154 1. 
74LS155 1. 
74LS156 . 
74LS1 57 
74LS158 . 
74LS160 1. 
74LS161 1. 
74LS162 1. 
74LS163 1. 
74LS164 1. 
74LS165 . 
74LS166 2. 
74LS168 1. 
74LS169 1. 
74LS170 1. 
74LS173 . 
74LS174 
74LS175 . 
74LS181 2. 
74LS190 1. 
74LS191 1. 
74LS192 
74LS193 
74LS194 1. 
74LS195 . 
74LS196 
74LS197 
74LS221 1. 
74LS240 1.i 
74LS242 1.f 
74LS243 1.i 
74LS244 1, 



43 74LS245$2.20 

43 74LS247 1.10 

55 74LS248 1.10 

19 74LS249 1.19 

35 74LS251 1.40 

89 74LS253 1.40 

52 74LS257 .85 

79 74LS258 .98 

49 74LS259 2.95 

85 74LS260 .65 

85 74LS261 2.49 

25 74LS266 .59 

49 74LS273 1.75 

79 74LS275 4,40 

79 74LS279 .59 

70 74LS283 .99 

19 74LS290 .99 

99 74LS293 .99 

B5 74LS295 1.10 

75 74LS298 1.19 

35 74LS324 1.75 

15 74LS347 1.95 

05 74LS348 1.95 

35 74LS352 1.19 

19 74LS353 1.19 

39 74LS363 1.49 

48 74LS365 .69 

15 74LS366 .69 

15 74LS367 .69 

39 74LS368 .69 

39 74LS373 1.89 

39 74LS374 1.89 

39 74LS375 .69 

>0 74LS377 1.95 

15 74LS385 1.95 

15 74LS386 .65 

98 74LS390 1.95 

S8 74LS393 1.95 

1 5 74LS395 1.70 

B 74LS399 2,35 

39 74LS424 2.95 

39 74LS668 1.75 

15 74LS670 2.29 

39 81 LS95 1 .69 

39 81LS96 1.69 

39 81LS97 1.69 

19 81 LS98 1 .69 

VOLUME PRICING 
CALL 
TOLL FREE 



4037 $1.95 

4040 1.29 

4041 1 .25 

4042 ,95 

4043 .85 

4044 .85 
4046 1.75 



4094 
4098 
4099 



2.95 
2.29 
2.25 



4050 
4051 
4052 
4053 



1.10 
1.10 
1.10 



14408 12.95 

14409 12.95 

14410 12.95 
14412 12.95 
14415 8.95 
14419 4.95 
4501 .39 



4059 9.25 

4060 1.39 
4066 .75 

4069 .35 

4070 ,49 

4071 ,35 

4072 .35 

4073 .35 

4075 .35 

4076 1.29 

4077 .35 

4078 .35 

4081 .35 

4082 .35 
4085 1 95 



4502 
4503 
4505 
4506 
4507 
4508 
4510 
4511 
4512 
4515 
4516 
4518 
4520 
4555 
4556 
4566 



1.65 



Mailorder P.O. Box 17329 Irvine, CA 92713 

Retail: 1 31 OB E. Edlnger, Santa Ana CA 92705 
(714) 559-9813 
542 W Trimble, San Jose. CA 95131 
(409) 946-7910 



TERMS. MO Cashier's Check. Bank Wire Personal 

License ana i _-J't card nsVisa 4MEX CF3 add 3% 
service 1 (large Add 1% ■stunning & handling or $2 50. 
whichever ■& greater Add 10% tor foreign orders or 
US Parcel Post incUtd*- Telephone number NOCODs 
s subject to change withoul notice Some items 



subjec 



urer Retail 



f. W ,:..,-. 



'nghl 



550 BYTE July 1983 



Circle 9 on inquiry card. 



V-/\AIA8\NCED 

T Z=—CQ/V\PUTEH 

"Piemen's sale 




HARDWARE 



You can now purchase Shugart compatible 
8" Disk Drives below your existing 
factory direct pricing! 




These Prices are 

the lowest ewer published. 

•Siemen'sSSDD FDD100-8 ... $199.00 

Also, with purchase ot Disk Drives you can buy the 
Vista V-1000 Dual Case with Power Supply and Cable 

for only $375.00 Regular Pnce $495.00 

OFFER LIMITED! SHIPPED IMMEDIATELY 

FACTORY FROM STOCK' 

WARRANTY 90 DAYS! -OEM QUAMTmtS 




S-100 64K c M os RAMCARD 



Unbelieveable 
Price! 

$25900 

Assembled and Tested 



□ ACP has sold over 1 000 of these IEEE 
compatible, low-priced, high-reliability 
64K Static RAM Cards. 

□ Single 5-Volt operation. 




ABM List 

BSR-X10 Interface $95 

Color lo Mono I/O Module 95 

Telephone Receptionist adapt 995 

PS3276/Bisyn Emulator 1295 

AMDEKDual3 Amdisk 
(2) Hitachi DS(250Kf 899 

AST Megaplus" Card 
P/N MG-064, 64K. Ser, Clk 595 

P/N MG-064SP. add'l Ser. Par 695 

P/N MG-256, 256K, Ser. Clk 995 

P/N MG-256SP adcfl Ser, Par 1 095 

AST I/O Plus' Card 
P/N l/O-SP. Clk, (2) Ser, Par 265 

AST Combo Plus" Card 
P/N MC256SPC 256K. clk, P/S 995 

AST PC Disk++" Card 
P/N MD-064. 64K. Host. Par 655 

CACTUS TECHNOLOGY 
300 Baud Direct Modum 349 

COEX 
Extender Card 40 

Prototype Card 69 

37 Pin "D" Connector 19 

Snap-in Card Guides (5) 8 

CORONA Hard Disk System 

CORVUS Hard Disk System 

DAVONG 

5Mb Hard Disk 1995 

12Mb Hard Disk 2495 

MAYNARD Disk Drive Card 
Floppy Card w/Parallel 295 

Floppy Card w/Senal 325 

MOUSE SYSTEMS 
Mouse w/Mousepad 332 

Mouse RS232 I/O 40 

ORCHID 
Ht-Res Graphics Adapter 495 

PERSYST Spectrum (B4-256K) 
P/N SP64-CCP, 64K, S. S. P 
P/N SP64, 64K 
64K Upgrade Kit (9 chips) 130 

OUADRAM Quadboard (64-256K) 
P/N 064, 64K w/4 functions 595 

TANDON TM 100-1 (160K) 295 

TM 100-2 (320K) 395 

TEAC FD55B(320K)Dlsk 395 

TG PRODUCTS Joystick 65 

Track Ball 65 

VISTA 
MULTICARD w/64K SPC 529 

MULTICARD w/256K SPC 829 

64K Upgrade Kit {9 chips) 
"MAXICARD"' W/64K 376 

"MAXICARD"' W/256K 676 

"MAXICARD"" W/576K 1 1 76 

■PC MASTER"" 7 Funcltons 590 

DISKMASTER (5V.", 8") 379 

ECONOCARD-SPC only 299 



Apple ll/lle 

Compatible 
Disk Drive 



Totally compatible 
to Apple Drives. 



only 



$ 



249 



00 



Controller $99.00 

Just plug in and run. 

Vista Quartet 




PRINTERS 




^c P e $ 299°° 



IBM LOW COST 
MEMORY 

MEMORY PLUS AT LOW PRICES! 
Now! "Multieard" expandable 

from 64 - 2S6K with 

(1) PARALLEL (1) SERIAL 

(1) CLOCK/CALENDAR 

COEX 256 SOOQ00 

with 64K 1.69 

COEX 64 SPC SOQC00 
with 256K WVW 



COEX 80-FT 




COEX 80F/T BOcps 

STAR MICRONICS- NEW! 

Gemini 10 100cps 
Gemini 15 15" 
EPSON MX80 w/Graftra* 
MX100 w/Grattrax 
FX80 w/Graftrax 
INTEGRAL DATA 
Microprism 480 
Prism 80 Color (all) 
Pnsm 132 Color (all) 
BROTHER Hfl-1 

Daisywhter 
IBM PC to EPSON Cable 
OKIDATA Mic<oline82A 
Microline 83A 
Microline 84AP 
Okidala 92 



S499 S299 

399 349 

649 479 

494 419 

749 669 

699 629 

799 689 

1795 1495 

1995 1685 

1195 895 

1495 1295 



60 



45 



599 489 

899 729 

1399 1099 

699 549 



MONITORS 



799 



-,. Add 8" 

I I/I Disk 

S\J^^T Drives 
«■ To Your 
Apple ll/lle 
Up To 2.4 Megabyte! 

Now "TRIMLINE V1 1 00" with 
Tandon Thinline DS DD Drives. 

Tandon Dual DS DD $1 895.00 

Qume Dual DS DD 1 690.00 

Shugart Dual 801 R 1 295.00 



Best of all, the price . 



$1 

only 

Optional COEX Interface Card 
to Apple $4 



AMDEKCORP 

300 Green 12" 
3l0AmbeM2" 
Color I Composite 
Color II RGB Hi-Res 
Color III RGBComm'l 
Color IV RGB Analog 

NEC 12 Green -NEW 

12' RGB (690 x230) 

PRINCETON GRAPHICS 
RGB IBM Lookahke 



S199 $155 
210 175 
399 299 
899 790 
Call 

1299 1059 
1 99 155 
895 799 



SPECIAL 
OFFER 

(2) Siemen's 8" Disk Drives 
(1) Vista V-1000 Enclosure 
(1 ) Power Supply w/Fan, w/Cable 




Surge Suppressor Fan. 

Double Outlet Receptacle % 1&* 



FLOPPY DISK DRIVES 

SINGLE SIDED 8 

1 2 10 MFG P/N 

$385 S379 $369 TandQfl 848-1 
199 '99 Call 

DOUBLE-SIDED 8 



SINGLE SIDED 5V. 
210 208 198 Tandon TM 100-1 20! 

210 208 196 Pertec FD200 14! 

DOUBLE-SIDED 6W 
345 325 313 Tandon TM100-2 2 

159 159 149 

DOUBLE SIDED 5'A " Thinline 
■inline 375 365 359 Qume 5'.' Thinline 37! 
DOUBLE-SIDED 3 
Cat! Call Call 

WINCHESTERS 5V4 

16Mb; 699 679 599 Seagate ST512(12Mbl 9 
1Mb) 865 850 819 IMI 5012|12Mbl 10 

8Mn> 1313 1299 1225 . 

SPECIAL LIQUIDATION - SMALL QTY 

_ SHUGART 4004 

14 WINCHESTER 



' SSSD 
DYSAN 5% DSSD 
IBM 5V," SSSD 
SSDD 
VERBATIM 525-01 SS 
VERBATIM 550-01 DS 
MAXELL MD1 SS 
MAXELL MD2 DS 
AMDEK Hllachi 3" DS Micro 
BULK SPECIAL SS 
With Sleeve and Box 



1 0, $55 
10/65 
10/60 
10/65 
10(45 
10/55 
10/50 
10/60 
5/99 
10/25 

00/195 



MORE IBM GOODIES 



CURTIS PC Pedeslal 

Extension Cable 
INTEL 8087 IC 
RAM EXPANSION 

1 6K Motherboard f 1 6 IC's) 
64K Memory Exp (9 IC's) 
KRAFT IBM Joystick 
IBM Paddles 



MODEMS 



SIGNALMAN Mark I (RS232I 
HAVES 

Smartmodem(RS232) 

Smarlmotte m 1 200 
IBM PC to Modem Cable 
SSM 

AMC300 300 Baud 

AMC 1 200 1 200 Baud 

TRANSPAK I 

TRANSPAK II 

TRANSPAK III 
NOVATION 



BUSINESS 

Screen Writer 
Word Handler 
BD Master 
Visicalc" 3 3 
Master Type 
Desk Top Plan II 
Desk Top Plan III 
V i si plot 
PFS. File II 
PFS. File III 
Vi si trend Visi plot 
PFS. Graph II 
PFS. Graph III 
Multiplan 
Versaform 
Wordstar 
Format II 
dBASE II 
Su percale 
PFS. Report II 
PFS. Repon III 
Acct Plus G/L 
G/L. A/P. A/R 
Above + Inventory 
Magic Window 
HOME 

Home Accountant 
T ran send I 
Transend II 
Data Capture 4 
Visiterm 

Per. Finance Mgr 
ASCII Exprs, Prof 
Electronic Duet 
Tax Prep 1983 



HOBBY 

$129 Bag ol Tricks $32 

149 Graphics Magic'n 45 

155 DOS Boss 19 

185 Zoom Graphics 32 

29 Utility City 22 

179 Locksmith 4.0 90 

225 Compl Graph Sys 55 

159 Apple Mechanic 24 

115 Nibbles Away II 49 

155 GAMES 

25 The Missing Ring 29 

115 Chophtter 26 

155 Frogger 24 

199 Wizardy 39 

279 Snack Attack 24 

365 Castle Woltenstien 24 

179 Arcade Machine 44 

439 Canyon Climber 24 

169 Aztec 29 

95 Mask of the Sun 29 

115 Cannonball Blitz 26 

299 Knight Diamonds 26 

599 Zork I 29 

799 Zork III 29 

1 1 5 Slarcross 29 

Serpentine 25 

59 Star Blazer 25 

76 Deadline 39 

119 Tubeway 25 

49 Flight Simulalor 25 

89 Space Vikings 43 

85 Sargon II 29 

99 Spitfire Simulator 29 

25 Apple Panic 22 

149 Olympic Decath 23 



14.5 MEGABYTES 



Special Sale Price ... $995.00 



TOLL FREE 

800-854-8230 

nun 
910-595-1565 





LIST 


ACP 


Apple lie w/64K S139 


$1 195.00 


Apple Me System 


1995 00 


1695.00 


Apple He Sys w/Ext Text 


2195.00 


1895.00 


Disk II w/Controller 


545.00 


449.00 


Disk II w/o Controller 


395.00 


359.00 


Monitor III Green 


249.00 


189.00 


Super Serial Card 


195.00 


169.00 


Parallel Interlace Card 


165.00 


139.00 


80 Column Text Card 


125.00 


109.00 


Extended 80 Column Text 


295.00 


249.00 


Dot Matrix Printer 


695.00 


529. OO 


"Apple Products Available In store Only" 


MORE HARDWARE 


MICROSOFT 


LIST 


ACP 


Z80 Softcard 


$395.00 


$249. OO 


16K Ramcard 


195.00 


89.00 


The Premium Package 


685.00 


654.00 


SSM 






AIO-II 4 Funclion Serial/ 






Parallel 


225.00 


179.00 


AIO Sena 1/ Parallel 


195.00 


165.00 


EASTS IDE 






Wildcard Apple II 


149.00 


115.00 


KENSINGTON 






Syslem Saver 


89.95 


74.95 


KEYBOARD COMPANY 






Numeric Keypad 


149.95 


124.95 


Apple II Joystick 


49.95 


44.50 


Apple II Handcontrollers 


29.95 


25.95 


KRAFT (IBM also) 






Joystick 




49.00 


Hand Cont roller 




40.00 


MPC 






1 28K Bubble Memory 


875.00 


699.00 


PROMETHEUS 






VERSAbox Spool/ Buf r 


249.00 


199.00 


VERSAcard Four-in-1 


199.00 


1 66.00 


AUTO- DOC diagnostics 


99.00 


82.00 


VISTA COMPUTER CO. 






Vision 80 80x24 Card 


395.00 


219.00 


Vision 80 Visicalc 80 






Col Patch 


69.00 


49.00 


A800 8" DiskContr 


379.95 


349.00 


Quartet Disk Drive 5'/»" 


849.00 


799.00 


Solo Disk Drive w/Contr 


299.00 


249.00 


Solo Drive w/o Contr 


379.00 


319.00 


Vista 5'A" DiskContr 


92.00 


79.00 


Typeahead Buffer 


49.95 


35.00 


VIDEX 






Videoterm 80x24 Card 


345.00 


279.00 


Keyboard Enhancer II 


149.00 


129.00 


Soft Switch 


35.00 


30. OO 


Function Strip Keys 


79.00 


69.00 


PRACTICAL PERIPHERALS 




16KMicrobuffer 


259.00 


220.00 


32 K Microbutfer 


299.00 


253.00 


Snapshot Option 


149.00 


1O9.00 


VOTRAX 






Type n' Talk Speech 


249.00 


219.00 


Personal System 


395.00 


339.00 


VYNET 






Apple II Voice Syn. 


395.00 


349.00 


Apple II Telephone I/O 


295.00 


249.00 


SCOTT INSTRUMENTS 






Voice Recognif n VETBO 


799.00 


675.00 


COEX 






16K RAM Card 


99.00 


59.95 


Parallel Card w/cable 


99.00 


49.95 


Apple Protocard 


29.00 


19.95 


Apple Extendercard 


29.00 


19.95 


Apple lie Ext RAM Card 


199.00 


149.00 


CORVUS 






5 Mb Hard Disk 


3750 00 


Call 


10 Mb Hard Disk 


5350.00 


Call 


20 Mb Hard Disk 


6450.00 


Call 


ORANGE MICRO 






The Grappler I/O (Plus) 


175.00 


139.00 


The Bufferboard 


175 00 


139.00 


SATURN SYSTEMS 






32K RAM Card 


21900 


179.00 


128K RAM Card 


499.00 


439.00 


SCOTT 






ECHOH 


149.00 


129.00 


STREET 






ECHO II 


149.00 


129.00 


LEGEND 






64KC ll/lle 


327.00 


269.00 


128KC ll/lle 


599.00 


499.00 


18SRC 18K Static 


149.00 


1 35.00 


MOUNTAIN COMPUTEF 






CPS Multifunction 


239.00 


169.00 


Music System 


395 00 


335.00 


A/D plus D/A 


350.00 


299.00 


ROM Plus 


155.00 


129.00 


MAR ENTERPRISES 






Sup'rterm 80x24 Card 


395.00 


269.00 


Sup'rMod II 


69.00 


49.00 


Sup'rMod V (IBM) 


69.00 


49.00 


Sup'rAccess (New!) 




Call 


ALS 






The CP/M Plus Z80 card 


399.00 


329.00 


Smarterm 80x24 Card 


349.00 


279.00 


The Synergizei Package 


699.00 


549.00 



16K RAM CARD 



Apple II 16K 

Compatible with 
Z80 Softcard ... PASCAL CP/M" 

Full 1 year Warranty. Top Quality by COEX 

new * 
low •> 

PRICE 

Also from COEX NEW EPSON 

Parallel Interface for Apple. 

With cable $49.95 



59 



95 



Mailorder P.O. Box 17329 Irvine, CA 92713 



Retail- 1 31 08 E. Edlnger, Santa Ana CA 92705 
(714) 558-8813 

542 W. Trimble, Sin Jest, CA 95131 
(400) 940-7010 



TERMS: MO. Cashier's Check Bank Wire Personal 
checks allow 2 weeks for processing. Include Drivers 
License and credit card #s Visa, AMEX, CB add 3% 
service charge Add 3% shipping 8 handling or $2 50, 
whichever is greater Add 10% for foreign orders or 
US Parcel Post Include Telephone number NOCODs 
Prices subject lo change without nolice Some items 
subject (o prior sale We reserve the rtghl to substitute 
manufacturer Retail prices may vary 



Circle 9 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 551 



IBM Specials 

Advanced Operating Systems 

The Programmer $129 

Applied Software 

Versalorm $249 

AshtonTate 

sBase II (CP/M 86) $419 

sBase II (MS Dos) $419 

Continental Software 

The Home Accountant Plus $ 95 

1st Class Mall $ 79 

Computer Sotware 
Technology 

Word/PC $ 49 

Davidson & Associates 

Speed Reader $ 49 

Datamost 

Real Estate Investment Program $ 79 

Write-On $85 

Comprehensive Software 

PCTutor $ 55 

Denver Software 

Executive Accounting System 

(128K) $469 

Eagle Software 

Money Decisions $129 

Howard Software 

Real Estate Analyzer II $159 

Tax Preparer 1983 $159 

Information Solutions 

25:01 $65 

Innovative Software 

T.I. M. Ill $299 

IUS 

Easy Filer $239 

Easy Writer II $209 

Easy Planner $159 

Accounts Receivable $369 

Accounts Payable $369 

General Ledger $369 

Financial Management Series $899 

Micro Lab 

The Tax Manager $159 

Micro Pro 

Wordstar $299 

Mailmerge $159 

Spellstar $109 

Infostar $299 

Reportstar $209 

North American 
Business Systems 

Answer $159 

PBL Corporation 

Personal Investor $ 89 

Peachtree 

General Ledger $329 

Accounts Receivable $329 

Accounts Payable $329 

Peach Pak (GL/AR/AP) $329 

Software Publishing 

PFS Report $84 

PFSFile $ 84 

Digital Research 

Concurrent CP/M 86 $209 

C Basic 86 $125 

Pasca/MT + 86 $239 

Speed Programming Package 86 . . . .$125 
CISCobol86 $489 

Peter Norton Computing 

Norton Utilities $ 55 

Select 

Select Word Processing System $299 

Softword Systems 

Wordmaker $289 

Sorcim/ISA 

Supercalc $179 

Superwriter $239 

Spellguard $125 

Southeastern 

Data Capture $ 75 

Visicorp 

Visicalc (256K) $165 

Desktop Plan 1 $199 

Visitrend/Plot $199 

Visifile $199 

Visidex $165 

Visischedule $199 

Business Forecasting Model $ 69 



Prices That Won't 

of Your 



New Products 

• * Corona Desktop Computer • • 

IBM COMPATIBLE Includes 2 320K drives, 128K 
memory. Graphics, serial/parallel ports, high resolu- 
tion monitor, MD DOS, CPM-86, BASIC, Multimate 
wordprocessing. 

Pkg $2595 

• • Corona Desktop Computer • * 

Same as above with one 320K floppy and one 10 
megabyte hard drive. 

$3995 

• • Corona Portable Computer • • 

IBM compatible/2 320 drives. Same components 



as above. 



$2395 



With 1 320 drive & MG hard drive. 



$4295 



** Specials of the Month ** 

Corona Hard Disk Subsystem 5 MG $1399 

Corona 5 MG External $1729 

Corona 10 MG Internal $1819 

Corona 10 MG External $2149 

Verbatim Disks (S/D w/Library Case) $ 27 

Box of Maxell Disks (D/D) $ 39 

Flip n' Sort Diskette Box (Holds 50 Disks) $ 21 

Elephant Disks $ 20 

USI Amber Monitor $ 149 




fcAH 



%PUTER OUTljl 




Call Toll Free 

1-800-634-6766 

Order Line Only 
Information & Order Inquiries (702) 369-5523 

CP/M 8" 



Monitors 



Amdek 

Color II $ 679 

Color III $ 399 

Color IV (RGB Analog Input) $1029 

Amdisk3 $ 729 

Amplot $ 769 

Amdek V310 Green $ 179 

NEC 

NECJB1201M $ 169 

Transtar 

Transtar20 $ 139 



Quadrant 

Quadchrome 

• Hi-Res RGB Monitor 

• Non-Glare Screen 

• 690 x 240 Resolution 

CALL FOR 
PRICE! 



Peripherals 

Kraft Joystick 45 

TG Joystick $ 39 

TG Trackball $ 39 

Microsoft 64K Ramcard $ 239 

Microsoft 256K Ramcard $ 589 

Hayes Smartmodem 300 $ 209 

Hayes Smartmodem 1200 $ 499 

Hayes Smartcom II Terminal Pk $ 72 

Anchor Automation Mark VI Modem .$ 179 
Quadram Microfazer w/Power 

Supply . , $ 149 

Trackball $ 59 

Analog Joystick $ 49 

IBM Interface Card $ 45 

Versawriter Graphics Tablet $ 239 

NEWLY 
ARRIVED 

IBM 

Personal 
Computer 



Digital Research 

CBasic $ 99 

CB-80 $309 

Pascal/MT+ $219 

Speed Programming Package $129 

CISCobol $499 

Access Manager $189 

Display Manager $253 

Micropro International 

WordStar $259 

DataStar $179 

MailMerge $139 



SuperSort $145 

SpellStar $145 

WordMaster $ 95 

CalcStar $ 89 

3 Pak(Word/Mail/SpellStar) $489 

2 Pak (WordStar and MailMerge) $369 

2 Pak (WordStar and SpellStar) $369 

InfoStar $289 

Reportstar $209 

Sorcim Corporation 

SuperCalc $185 

Spellguard $123 




ftYYCTPrt 



Wfo 



Includes 64K IBM-PC 

with two 320 KB floppy 

disk drives, controller 

color graphics card, 

monochrome monitor 



$2839 



552 BYTE July 1983 



Circle 98 on inquiry card. 



Take A Byte Out 
Budget. 






Printers 

NEC 

NEC8023A $ 439 

NEC 3530 $1599 

NEC 7710 $2059 

NEC 7730 $2059 

NEC 3550 $1899 

Diablo 

Diablo 620R(25CPS) $ 949 

Diablo 630R (40CPS) $1729 

Diablo 630KSR (40CPS) $2429 

Epson 

FX80 $ 599 

FX100FT $ 799 

Smith Corona 

TP-1 Parallel $ 499 

Okidata 

MLB2A $ 439 

ML83A $ 679 

ML84P $1029 

ML84S $1149 

ML92 $ 539 

ML93 $ 949 

IDS 

Microprism 80 $ 549 

Prism 132 $1399 

(with Sheetfeed & Graphics) 
Prism 132 $1589 

(with Sheetfeed, Graphics & Color) 
Prism to IBM Cable $ 48 

Citoh 

8510Prowriter $ 369 

F10Starwriter $1349 

FlOPrintmaster $1599 

Mannesmann Tally 

MT160L $ 749 

MT 1802 (Parallel) $1559 

MT 1805 (Serial) $1559 

Gemini 

Gemini 10 $ 369 

Gemini 15 _$ 499 

Qume 

Qume Sprint 11 + $1349 

Tractor Feed $ 1 75 

Printer Interface $ 75 



We Carry the 

Full Line of 

AST Research 

and 

Quadrant 

Multi-Function 

Boards 



CALL FOR 

BEST 
PR1CMG 




Jf^ Atari 



1200 XL $519 

with factory rebate 

800 48K $389 

with factory rebate 

400 16K $159 

with factory rebate 

1010 Recorder $ 72 

410 Recorder $ 72 

810 Disk Drive $419 

1025 Printer $409 

830 Modem $145 

850 Interface $159 

481 Entertainer $ 64 

482 Educator $110 

483 Programmer $ 52 

484 Communicator $289 

85316KRam $ 74 

The Bookkeeper Kit $165 

CX4104 Mailing List $ 19 

CX404 Word Processor $102 

CXL4007 Music Composer $ 42 

Programming 2 & 3 $ 22 

Conversational Languages $ 42 

CX4018 Pilot $ 55 

CX405 Pilot $ 92 

CXL4003 Assembler Editor $ 42 

CX8126 Microsoft Basic $ 62 



Business & Utilities 

Visicalc $169 

Mail Merge $ 20 

Data Perfect $ 75 

Letter Perfect $105 

Text Wizard $ 65 

Datasm 65 2.0 $ 59 

File Manager 800+ $65 

Syn Assembler $ 34 

Page 6 $ 20 

Atari World $ 39 

K-Dos $ 59 

Micropainter $ 23 

Color Print $ 27 

Lisp Interpreter $ 79 

Bishops Square $ 20 

Graphic Master $ 27 

Graphic Generator $ 17 

Basic Compiler $ 65 

Computari's Financial Wizard $ 45 

Color Accountant $ 65 

Datalink $ 27 

File It 2 System $ 34 

Diskette Inventory System $ 17 

P.M. P. Property Management $179 

Programming Techniques 

Display Lists $ 17 

Horiz/Vert Scroll $ 17 

Page Flipping $ 17 

Basics of Animation $ 17 

Player Missile Graphics $ 24 

Sound $ 24 

Data Files $ 24 




1095 E. Twain (702) 796-0296 
Las Vegas, Nevada 89109 

Call Toll Free 

1-800-634 6766 

Order Line Only 
Information & Order Inquiries (702) 369-5523 

We accept VISA and MasterCard 

Mon. — Fri. 8 A.M. to 6 P.M. — Sat. 9 A.M. to 6 P.M. 

Dealers' Inquiries Invited 



Apple Utilities 
& Business 

Screenwriter II $82 

Visicalc 3.3 $185 

Vlsischedule $199 

Vlsitrend/Vlsiplot $199 

The Word Handler $129 

Magic Window II $ 95 

Magic Mailer $ 45 

Magic Words $ 45 

Real Estate Analyzer II $119 

Supercalc $165 

PFS: Report (New) $85 

PFS: $ 85 

PFS: Graph $ 85 

The General Manager $ 97 

D.B. Master $145 

Pie Writer $ 95 

Wordstar $299 

Datafax $129 

Datalink $ 65 

The Home Accountant 48 

Payroll Manager $199 

Pie Writer/Multi 80 column $ 95 

Pro-Easywriter/Mail Combo $209 

Executive Briefing System $139 

The Sensible Speller $ 79 

Mail Merge $159 

Spellstar $119 

Calstar $119 

First Class Mail $ 49 

E-Z Ledger $ 45 

The Dictionary $ 65 

Versawriter Pak 1 $ 27 

Versawriter Pak 2 $27 

Personal Investor $ 95 

General Ledger $239 

Accounts Receivable $239 

Accounts Payable $239 

Executive Secretary $159 

Executive Speller $ 55 

TASC Compiler $119 

Basic Compiler $ 65 

Link Video Apple II $105 

Link Video Apple Ml $139 

Bag of Tricks $ 27 

A.L.D.S $ 89 

S.A.M $ 85 

Super Disk Copy III $ 20 

The Artist $ 65 

3-D Supergraphics $ 27 

Program Line Editor $ 27 

Hit List 

Cyborg $22 

Crisis Mountain $23 

Cytron Masters $27 

S.EUI.S $27 

Knight of Diamonds $23 

Way Out $27 

Zaxxon $27 

SAGA Adventure Ea. $27 

Serpentine $23 

Choplifter $23 

Frogger $23 

Sea Fox $20 

Temple of Apshai $27 

Ultima $27 

Zorkl $27 

Zorkll $27 

Zorklll $27 

Castle Wolfenstein $20 

Wiz & Princess $22 

Ulysses & The Golden Fleece $23 

Wizardy $34 

Tigers In The Snow $27 

Deadline $34 

Bandits $23 

Starcross $27 

Aztec $27 

Mask of the Sun $27 

Pie Man $20 

Miner 2049er $29 

Wavy Navy $23 

Ultima II $39 

Dark Crystal $27 

Millionaire $55 

Hi Res Secret $79 

Police Artist $23 

Suspended $35 



ORDERING INFORMATION AND TERMS: 

For fast delivery send cashier checks, money orders or direct bank wire transfers. Personal and company checks allow 3 weeks to clear. C.O.D. orders ($3.00 minimum) 
and 1 % of all orders over $300. School purchase orders welcome. Prices reflect a cash discount only and are subject to change. Please enclose your phone number with 
any orders. 

SHIPPING: Software ($2.50 minimum). Shipping — Hardware (please call). Foreign orders APO & FPO orders — $10 minimum and 15% of all orders over $100. Nevada 
residents add 5 3/4% sales tax. All goods are new and include factory warranty. Due to our low prices, all sales are final. All returns must have a return authorization number. 
Call 702-369-5523 to obtain one before returning goods for replacement. All returned merchandise is subject to a restocking fee and must come with their original packaging 
in order to be accepted. NO returns permitted after 21 days from shipping date. 



Circle 98 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 553 



DO IvOtU Computer 




Products, 



VISIT OUR RETAIL STORE 



3250 KELLER STREET, »9 • SANTA CLARA, CA 95050 



16K APPLE*!! 
RAM CARD 



BARE BOARD 



14.00 



42.50 



INTERFACE 

8T26 1.65 



8T28 

8T95 

8T96 

8T97 

8T98 

DM8131 

DP8304 

DS8835 

DS8836 



1.95 

.95 

.95 

.95 

.95 

2.90 

2.25 

1.89 

99 



1702 

2708 

2758 

2716 

2716-1 

TMS2516 

TMS2716 

2532 

2732 

2764 

MC68764 

TMS 4027 
UPD411 
MM 5280 
MK4108 
MM 5298 

4027 
4116 
4116 
4164 
4164 



EPROMS 

1ns 
450ns 
450ns 
450ns 
350ns 
450ns 
450ns 
450ns 
450ns 
450ns 
450ns 
DYNAMIC RAMS 
250ns 
300ns 
300ns 
200ns 
250ns 

250ns 
200ns 
150ns 
200ns 
150ns 



2.95 
2.98 
5.89 
3.25 
4.69 
5.49 
7.89 
4.69 
4.15 
CALL 
34.95 

.79 
2.89 
2.89 

1.74 
1.74 

2.00 
CALL 
CALL 
CALL 
CALL 



2101 

5101 

2102-1 

2102L-2 

2111 

2112 

2114 

2114L^1 

2114L-3 

2114L-2 

2147 

TMS4044-4 

TMS4044-3 

TMS4044-2 

MK4118 

TMM2016 

TMM2016 

HM6116-4 

HM6116-3 

HM6116-2 

Z6132 



STATIC RAMS 

450ns 

450ns 

450ns 

250nsLP 

450ns 

450ns 

450ns 

450nsLP 

300nsLP 

200nsLP 

55ns 
450ns 
300ns 
200ns 
250ns 
200ns 
150ns 
200ns 
150ns 
120ns 
300ns 
LP = LOW POWER 



1.80 

3.89 

.78 

1.44 

248 

2.58 

1.74 

1.84 

1.84 

1.94 

4.89 

3.15 

3.45 

3.89 

9.69 

4.15 

4.89 

CALL 

CALL 

CALL 

32.95 



RESISTORS 

% WATT 5% CARBON FILM 

ALL STANDARD VALUES 

FROM 1 OHM TO 10 MGE OHM 

50 PCS. SAME VALUE .0200 

100 PCS. SAME VALUE .0150 

1000 PCS. SAME VALUE .0125 



i4 .J 1 raden 



We Will Beat 

Any Competitors 

Prices! 



6500 
1 MHz 



6502 
6504 
6505 
6507 
6520 
6522 
6532 
6545 
6551 



5.25 
6.85 
7.60 
9.85 
3.95 
4.95 
5.95 
16.95 
10.95 



2 MHz 



6502A 
6522A 
6532A 
6545A 
6551 A 



8.95 
9.95 
11.90 
27.90 
1190 



3 MHz 

6502B 11.90 



74LS00 
74LS01 
74LS02 
74LS03 
74LS04 
74LS05 
74LS08 
74LS10 
74LS11 
74LS12 
74LS13 
74LS14 
74LS15 
74LS20 
74LS21 
74LS22 
74LS26 
74LS27 
74LS28 
74LS30 
74LS32 
74LS33 
74LS37 
74LS38 
74LS40 
74LS42 



.23 
.23 
.23 
.23 
.23 
.23 
.23 
.23 
.25 
.25 
.39 
.39 
29 
.23 
.23 
.23 
29 
.23 
.29 
.23 
.25 
.49 
.29 
.29 
.23 
.43 



74LS123 
74LS124 
74LS125 
74LS126 
74LS132 
74LS136 
74LS137 
74LS138 
74LS139 
74LS145 
74LS147 
74LS148 
74LS151 
74LS153 
74LS154 
74LS155 
74LS156 
74LS157 
74LS158 
74LS160 
74LS161 
74LS162 
74LS163 
74LS164 
74LS165 
74LS166 



.49 
1.24 
.44 
.44 
.54 
.54 
.89 
.49 
.49 
1.19 
2.39 
1.29 
.39 
.39 
1.89 
.59 
.69 
.44 
.49 
.68 
.64 
.68 
.64 
.68 
.79 
1.69 



74LS253 
74LS257 
74LS258 
74LS259 
74LS260 
74LS266 
74LS273 
74LS275 
74LS279 
74LS280 
74LS283 
74LS290 
74LS293 
74LS295 
74LS298 
74LS324 
74LS352 
74LS353 
74LS363 
74LS364 
74LS365 
74LS366 
74LS367 
74LS368 
74LS373 
74LS374 



3250 Keller Street, «9 

Santa Clara, CA 95050 

(800) 538-8800 

Calif. Residents Local Phone 

(800)848 8008 408)988 0697 



554 BYTE July 1983 



.58 
.58 
.58 

1.19 
.58 
.58 

1.48 

3.20 
.48 

1.79 
.68 
.74 
.78 



1.74 

1.28 

1.28 

1.34 

1.89 

.48 

.48 

.44 

44 

.98 



74LS47 


.49 


74LS168 


1.69 


74LS377 


1.24 


74LS48 


.74 


74LS169 


1.74 


74LS378 


1.15 


74LS49 


74 


74LS170 


1.45 


74LS379 


1.34 


74LS51 


.23 


74LS173 


68 


74LS385 


1.89 


74LS54 


23 


74LS174 


44 


74LS386 


44 


74LS55 


.28 


74LS175 


.39 


74LS390 


1.15 


74LS63 


1 19 


74LS181 


1.89 


74LS393 


1.15 


74LS73 


.34 


74LS189 


8.79 


74LS395 


1.15 


74LS74 


34 


74LS190 


.79 


74LS399 


1.48 


74LS75 


.34 


74LS191 


.79 


74LS424 


.37 


74LS76 


.34 


74LS192 


.64 


74LS447 


.37 


74LS78 


45 


74LS193 


.64 


74LS490 


1.94 


74LS83 


.59 


74LS194 


.68 


74LS668 


1.69 


74LS85 


.65 


74LS195 


.68 


74LS669 


1.89 


74LS86 


.35 


74LS196 


.78 


74LS670 


1.48 


74LS90 


35 


74LS197 


78 


74LS674 


9.45 


74LS91 


.79 


74LS221 


.74 


74LS682 


2.99 


74LS92 


54 


74LS240 


.89 


74LS683 


2.99 


74LS93 


54 


74LS251 


.89 


74LS684 


2.99 


74LS95 


74 


74LS242 


.98 


74LS685 


2.99 


74LS96 


69 


74LS243 


.98 


74LS688 


2.39 


74LS107 


35 


74LS244 


79 


74LS689 


2.99 


74LS109 


.35 


74LS245 


1.48 






74LS112 


.35 


74LS247 


.74 


81LS95 


1.48 


74LS113 


.35 


74LS248 


.89 


81LS96 


1.48 


74LS114 


.35 


74LS249 


.89 


81LS97 


1.48 


■ 74LS122 


39 


74LS251 


.58 


81LS98 


1.48 


UO IxO^U Computer Products, Inc 



UARTS 

AY3-1014 

AY5-1013 

AY5-1015 

TR1602 

IM6402 

IM6403 

INS8250 



5.85 
3.90 
6.90 
3.90 
7.85 
8.85 
10.49 



LEDS 

Jumbo Red 10/1.00 
JumboGreen 6/1.00 
Jumbo Yellow 6/1.00 



DIP SWITCHES 

4 Position .85 

5 Position .90 

6 Position .90 

7 Position .90 

8 Position .95 



XR2206 
XR2207 
XR2208 
XR2211 
XR2240 



EXAR 



3.75 
3.75 
3.90 
5.25 
3.25 



CA3010 
CA3013 
CA3023 
CA3035 
CA3039 
CA3046 
CA3053 
CA3059 
CA3060 
CA3065 
CA3080 
C A 3081 
C A 3082 
CA3083 
CA3086 
CA3089 
CA3130 
CA3140 
CA3146 
CA3160 
CA3401 
CA3600 



RCA 



.95 
1.99 
2.75 
2.49 
1.25 
1.25 
1.45 
2.90 
2.90 
1.75 
1.10 
1.65 
1.65 
1.65 

.80 
2.10 
1.25 
1.15 
1.75 
1.15 

.59 
3.45 



STORE HOURS: 

MON-FRI 8:30 A.M.-5:30 P.M. 

SAT 10:00 A.M.-3:00 P.M. 



APPLE* II 

COMPATIBLE 
DISK DRIVE 

225.95 

CONTROLLER CARD 
79.95 



APPLE 

SUPER COOLING 
FANS 
49.95 

WITH SURG PROTECH 

69.95 



5 1 /4" FLOPPY DISK 

FLIP FILE 

CAPACITY 75 EA 



19.95 



APPLE 

PADDLES 

9.95 






,v* 



\ 



*0 



mMPMAMxm 


IM^M^. 


VISA 


[master charge 




L ■* 











UPGRADE 

4116 -200 ns 
CALL 



TERMS: For shipping include S2 00 for UPS 
Ground S3. 00 for UPS Blue Label Air 510.00 
minimum order Bay Area residents add 6Vj% Sales 
Tax. California residents add 6% Sales Tax We 
reserve the right to limit quantities and substitute 
manufacturer. Prices sub|ect to change without 
notice. Send SASE for complete list 



APPLE'II USERS 
DISK DRIVE! 

225.95 

CONTROLLER CARD 79.95 



DoKQU Computer 



Includes metal cabinet 
Color matches Apple 
35 tracks/single side 
Includes cable 
Use with Apple II controller 




Products, 



'i 



EPROM ERASERS 

HOLDS 15 EPROMS 
ERASES IN 20 MINUTES 

59.95 



h 



VISIT OUR RETAIL STORE 



3250 KELLER STREET, #9 • SANTA CLARA, CA 95050 



2.5 MHz 

280-CPU 

Z80-PIO 

Z80-CTC 

Z80-DMA 

Z80-DART 

Z80-SIO/O 

Z80-SIO/1 

Z80-SIO/2 

Z80-SIO/9 



3.35 
3.35 
3.35 
12.49 
14.98 
16.95 
16.95 
16.95 
16.95 



Z80 



SERIES 



Z80A-DMA 
Z80A-DART 
Z80A-SIO/0 
Z80A-SIO/1 
Z80A-SIO/2 
Z80A-S10/9 



21.95 
15.95 
20.95 
20.95 
20.95 
18.95 



4.0 MHz 

Z80A-CPU 4.90 

Z80A-PIO 4.90 

ZBOA-CTC 4.90 



6.0 MHz 

Z80B-CPU 14.95 

Z80BPIO 12.95 

Z80B-CTC 12.95 

ZILOG 

Z6132 32.95 

Z8671 38.95 



5 1 / 4 " DISKETTES 

ATHANA OR NASHUA 

SSSD 18.95 

SSDD 22.95 

DSDD 27.95 

BULK 

SSDD SOFT 

$1.65 EA 



CLOCK 
CIRCUITS 



MM 5314 
MM 5369 
MM 5375 
MM 58167 
MM 58174 

MSM 5832 



4.90 
3.90 
4.90 
8.90 
10.95 

6.90 



ORDER TOLL FREE 

(BOO) 538-8800 
(800) 848-8008 

(CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS) 
ALL MERCHANDISE IS 100% GUARANTEED 



LM301 

LM308 

LM309K 

LM311 

M317T 

LM317K 

LM318 

LM323K 

LM324 

LM337K 

LM339 

LM377 

LM380 

LM386 

LM555 

LM556 

LM565 

LM566 

LM567 

LM723 

LM733 



LINEAR 

32 LM741 



75 

1.25 

.64 

1.65 

1.70 

1.49 

3.75 

.59 

3.90 

.79 

2.25 

1.25 

1.00 

.38 

.65 

95 

1.45 

.99 

.49 

.95 



LM747 

LM748 

LM1310 

MC1330 

MC1350 

MC1358 

LM1414 

LM1458 

LM1488 

LM1489 

LM1800 

LM1889 

LM3900 

LM3909 

LM3914 

LM3915 

LM3916 

75451 

75452 

75453 



.29 

.75 

.49 

2.45 

1.69 

1.25 

1.69 

1.49 

.55 

.65 

.65 

2.45 

2.45 

.59 

.95 

3.70 

3.70 

3.70 

.35 

35 

.35 



Disc 
Controllers 



1771 

1791 

1793 

1795 

1797 

6843 

8272 

UPD765 

1691 



15.95 
27.95 
29.95 
49.95 
49,95 
32.95 
39.00 
34.95 
17.95 



9000 SERIES 

9316 .95 

9334 2.39 

9368 3.69 

9401 8.95 

9601 .69 

9602 1.39 
96502 1.79 



MISC. 

11 C 90 
3242 
MC 3470 
MC 3480 
ULN 2003 
CA 3146 
2513-001 up 
2513-002 low 



12.95 
6.95 
7.95 
8.95 
5.95 
1.75 
9.69 
9.69 



7805T 
7808T 
7812T 
7815T 
7824T 

7805K 
781 2K 
781 5K 
7824K 
7905T 



VOLTAGE 
REGULATORS 

.75 7908T 



.75 
.75 
.75 
.85 

1.29 
1.29 
1.29 
1.29 
.85 



7912T 
7915T 
7924T 

7905 K 
7912K 
791 5K 
7924K 



T=TO-220 
K = TO-3 



.85 
.85 
.85 

.95 

1.39 
1.39 
1.39 
1.39 



CONNECTORS 

RS232 Male 

RS232 Female 

RS232 Female Right Angle 

RS232 Hood 

30 pin Edge 

44 pin Edge 

50 pin Edge 

86 pin Edge 
100 pin ST 
100pinW/W 



3.00 
3.50 
4.95 
1.20 
2.49 
2.49 
2.69 
3.90 
3.90 
4.90 



DoKau 



32.768 KHz 

1.00 Hz 

1.8432 

20 

2.097152 

2.4576 

3.2768 

3.579545 

4.0 

5.0 

5.0688 

5.185 

5.7143 

6.0 



CRYSTALS 

1.90 6.144 



4.50 
4.50 
3.90 
3.90 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 



6.5536 

8.0 

10.0 

12.0 

14.31818 

15.0 

16.0 

17.430 

18.0 

18.432 

20.0 

22.1184 



2.69 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 
2.69 



8035 

8039 

8080A 

8085A 

8086 

8088 

8155 

8156 

8185 

8202 

8205 

8212 

8214 

8216 

8224 

8226 

8228 

8237 

8238 

8243 

8250 



8000 

4.95 8251 



5.95 

3.89 

5.89 

24.95 

34.95 

7.75 

8.75 

29.00 

27.95 

3.45 

1.79 

3.75 

1.69 

2.19 

1.79 

3.34 

19.00 

4.39 

4.39 

10.49 



8253 

8253-5 

8255 

8255-5 

8257 

8259 

8272 

8275 

8279 

8279-5 

8282 

8283 

8284 

8286 

8287 

8288 

8289 

8741 

8748 

8755 



4.39 

6.89 

7.89 

4.39 

5.19 

7.89 

6.85 

39.00 

29.00 

8.89 

9.89 

6.49 

6.49 

5.49 

6.49 

6.49 

24.95 

39.00 

34.95 

14.95 

29.95 



IC Sockets 



8 PIN 
14 PIN 
16 PIN 
18 PIN 
20 PIN 
22 PIN 
24 PIN 
28 PIN 
40 PIN 



IC SOCKETS 
ST 

.10 
12 
.15 
.20 
.25 
.25 
.25 
.35 
.40 

ST = Soldertail 
W/W - Wirewrap 



w/w 

49 

50 

.57 

.85 

.99 

1.30 

1.40 

1.50 

1.80 



6800 

6802 

6808 

6809 

6809 E 

6810 

6820 

6821 

6828 

6840 

6843 

6844 

6845 

6847 

6850 

6852 

6860 

6862 

6875 

6880 

6883 

68 BOO 

68B02 

68B09 

68B09E 

6810 

6810 

68B45 

68B50 

68000 



6800 
1 MHz 



2 MHz 



3 MHz 



4.75 

7.89 

845 

11.95 

17.95 

2.89 

350 

295 

13.95 

795 

32.95 

24.95 

13.95 

11.95 

3.20 

3.50 

9.89 

11.90 

6.89 

1 80 

22.95 

9.95 
21.95 
28.95 
28 95 

7.89 
11.95 
33.95 
11.95 

57.95 



Power Supplies 



MOUNTED ON PC BOARD 

MANUFACTURED BY CONVER 

+ 5 VOLT 4 AMP 

±12 VOLT 1 AMP 




34.95 




\J\J IxtAlJ Computer Products, Inc. 

3250 Keller Street, #9 

Santa Clara, CA 95050 

(800) 538 8800 

Calif. Residents Lodil Phone 

(300) 848 8008 (408) 988 0697 



STORE HOURS: 

MON-FRI 8:30 A.M.-5:30 P.M. 

SAT 10:00 A.M.-3:00 P.M. 



master charge 







BankAmericard 













TERMS: For shipping include S2.00 for UPS 
Ground. $3.00 for UPS Blue Label Air. $10.00 
minimum order. Bay Area residents add 6%% Sales 
Tax. California residents add 6% Sales Tax. We 
reserve the right to limit quantities and substitute 
manufacturer. Prices subject to change without 
notice. Send SASE for complete list. 



Circle 146 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 555 



Components -"%a^ -*""-« 

Unlimited NOW HAS A COMPLETE 



APPLE SOFTWARE 



Ashton tate 

d Base ll $409 

ArtSci 

Magiccalc S 99 

MagicWindowll 109 

Magicwords 89 

Continental Software 

Home Accountant S 59 

info Com 

Zork I 526" 

Zorkll 26 9S 

Zork III 26 9B 

Micro Pro 

caclstar 5 99 

Datastar 199 

Mailmerge 169 

Reportstar 239 

Spellstar 169 

Supersort 169 

Wordstar 269 

Micro Soft 

BasicCompiler 5269 

Cobol-80 499 

Fortran-80 139 

Multiplan 189 

Peach Tree 

Call for lowest prices 

Stoneware 

DB Master . .5169 

Ashton Tate 

DBasell S409 

DBasell8" 419 

Continental 

Home Accountant Plus 5 99 

property Management 299 

info Com 

Zorkl 5 27 

Zork II 27 

Zork III 27 

Micro Lab 

Tax Manager S179 

Micro Pro 

Wordstar 5299 

Mailmerge 159 

Spellstar 159 

Peach Tree 

General Ledger 5345 

Accounts Receivable 345 

Accounts Payable 345 

Sorcirm 

SuperCalc 5199 

Micro Soft 

Multiplan S189 



SPECIALS OF THE MONTH 



IBM PC SOFTWARE 



Micro-Sci A-2 

Fully Apple CompatiPle 

• Faster Than Apple 

• Fully Documented 

$229.00 

Rana Elite I 

Fully Apple CompatiPle 

• Faster Than Apple 
• More Storage 

• write Protect Switch 

$269.00 

BMC 9191 
Color Monitor 

• Composite video 
Audek Color CompatiPle 

• Good Resolution 

$249.00 



Sanyo Monitor 

• 9" Green 

• 24 x 60 

ONLY $89.00 



Hayes 300 
Baud Modem 

• Top of the Line 

• Serial interface 

$199.00 
Hayes 1200 Baud $499.00 

C. ITOH starwriter 

F-10 40 PU 

• Letter Quality 

• 1 Yr. Warranty 

$1149.00 



CALL 800-847-1718 

For weekly Specials 

we Offer More Than 



Axiom by Seiko 
Printer 

• 30 CPS 

• Parallel interface 

■ Dot Py Dot Graphic 

• 2 Yr. warranty 

$199.00 

Ashton Tate 

• D Base ll 
$409.00 

Lowest Advertised Price Ever 



5Va" Diskettes 

100 for ONLY s 1 50 

• Reinforced HuP 
Sgl. side DPI. Density 

• 5 Yr. warranty 

Viewmax 80 

• 80 Col. For Apple 

• Videx CompatiPle 

• W/Soft Switch 
w/lnverse Charter Switch 

• 2 Yr. Warranty 

$149.00 

Siemans 8 Disk Drive 

• FDD100-8D 
■ 801R Shugart CompatiPle 

• Factory Sealed 
• 90 Day warranty 

$179.00 

rf Modulator 

• Apple Hand 
Apple iie CompatiPle 

$ 19.00 



Dealer inquiries invited 
• Quantity Discounts 
Available 



Low Prices!?! 



Al , products Have 90 oav 
to 5 vr. warranty 



ir tua«* 



HO B*»« 






LINE OF SOFTWARE 



* CCo "ntto 
Qualifier 

F irms 



PERSONAL & PORTABLE 
SYSTEMS 



FranklinAcelOOOw/color Call 

FranklinAcel200w/Drive Call 

Apple HE Starter System $1725 

Kayproll 1649 

Syscomll 625 

Commodore64w/Drive 795 

Sanyo MBC 1000 1589 

compac, Columbia, Corona Call 



APPLE, FRANKLIN 

Accessories 



Advanced Logic Systems 

cpm3.0Card S 339 

zcardcpmCard 139 

Astar 

RF Modulator 19 

Gibson 

Light pen for Apple ll SHE 249 

Kensington 

System Saver/ Fan & Surge 69 

Micro Max 

ViewmaxSOCol.Card 149 

Micro Soft Products 

Softcardw/cpm 239 

16KCard 65 

Premium Pack 469 

Micro Tek 

128K Memory Board 299 

OPuk Memory 329 

Orange Micro 

Crappler + Graphics interface 121 

BufferBoardw/l6KBufferExp 139 

Crappler + l6KBufferExp 179 

TC Products 

joystick 39 

Paddles 29 

Selecta Port 39 



MODEMS 



Hayes Micro Computer 

300 Baud Smart Modem S 199 

l200BaudSmartModem 499 

MicroModemll 259 

MicroModemllw/TerminalPackage 279 

Novation 

J-Cat300Baud 119 

Applecatll 269 

US Robotic 

212AAut0Dial 469 



IBM PC 

Accessories 



Tandon 

TM100-1 160K S 179 

TM100-2 320K 239 

Profit Systems inc. 

Parallel Port, Serial Port, Clock Calendar 64K 

& All Needed Software 329 

Same as above except 51 2K 699 

UPCrade 

64Kw/parity 59 



5Va"&8" 
DISK DRIVES 



siemans 

FDD100-8D8"Sgl/DblDen S 179 

Mitsubishi 

2894-63 Dbl/Dbl Den 399 

Shugart 

SA801RSgl/DblDen 359 

SA851R Dbl/Dbl Den 479 

Tandon 

TM 100-1 160K 179 

TM 100-2 320K 239 

TM 101-4 quad Density 339 

TM848-1Sgl/DblDen 359 

TM 848-2 Dbl/Dbl Den 449 

Teac 

FD55AV2HT160K 199 

FD55BV2HT320K 279 



PRINTERS 
PRICING WILL NOT BE BEAT 



C ItOh 

Gorilla (NEWI Call 

Prowriter I (Parallel) S 365 

Prowriter I (Serial) 529 

Prowriter ll (Parallel) 675 

StarwriterF-10 1149 

F-lOTractor 209 

8600(180cpsl 1099 

Star Micronics 

Gemini 10 (New Version) 299 

Gemini 15 (15 "carriage) 439 

Okidata 

Microllne92(160cps) 499 

Microline 93 (15 "carriage) 899 

Microline82A(Par. & Serial) 399 

Microline83A(15"carriage) 629 

Microline 84P(200cps) 969 

Microline84S(200cps) 1059 

Axiom 

SeikoshaGP100A 199 

seikosha GP250X 239 

dec 

Nec8023A Price Reduction 429 

Epson 

RX, MX, FX Call 

Toshiba 

P1350 TopoftheUne 1599 



DISK DRIVES 
FOR APPLE & FRANKLIN 



Rana Systems 

Elitel S 269 

Elitell 429 

Elitelll 539 

•Add $70 for Controller 

Micro Sci 

A-2 229 

A-40 279 

A-70 359 

•Add $70 for controller 

Ouentin Research 

AppleMate 249 

5 Megabyte Hardisk 1695 



Computer 
Components 
Unlimited 



800-847-1718 

All Orders 

NEW RETAIL STORE: 

11976 Aviation Blvd. 
inglewood, CA 90304 

MAIL ORDER: 

P.O. Box 1936 
Hawthorne, CA 90250 



VIDEO DISPLAY MONITORS 



USI 

pi 1 (9"AmberHiRes) $ 139 

pi 2 (9'xreenHiRes) 129 

pi 3 (12" AmberHiRes) 149 

PI 4 d2"GreenHiRes) 139 

Sanyo 

DM5109 (9"Green) 89 

DM2112 d2"Green) 84 

BMC 

12AU (12"Green) 79 

9191 colorcomposite 249 

Zenith 

ZVM121 (12"Green) 94 

Amdek 

Colon + w/sound 299 

COlorllRGB 569 

Princton Graphics 

PGSHx12w/IBMCable 499 



LOW PRICED 
Hi Quality 
DISKETTES 



5 W Disks 

Sgl Side /Dbl Density $17 a box 

DblSide/Dbl Density 27abox 

8" Disks 

Sgl Side/Dbl Density 28abox 

Dbl Side /Dbl Density 34abox 

All Disks come w/Reinforced Hub, 
5 yr warranty and not bulk packed. 

Advanced Access 

Smoked Plexiglass Diskette Tub Holds 80 .... 19 
8"version 26 

IBM to Printer $ 32 

Osborne to Printer 32 

kaypro to Printer 32 

Apple Cards Cable 49 



DISK DRIVE CABINETS 



5% " Cabinets 

Sgl Cabinet w/pwr. supply S 59 

DualCabinetsw/pwrsupply 89 

8" Cabinets 

SglCabinetsw/fan&pwr.supply 209 

DualCabinetsw/fan&pwr.supply 259 



if you don't see 

what you are 

looking for, 

give us a call, we 

have much more 

available 



Technical & Customer Service 
(213)219-0808 

Circle 83 on inquiry card 

All merchandise new. We accept MC, Visa, Wire " 
Transfer, COD Call, Certified Check, P.o s from 
qualified firms, apo accepted Shipping: 
Minimum S3. 50 first 5 pounds. Tax California Res. 
Only add 6V„ sales tax. 

Prices Subject to Change 

Mon.-Fri. 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Sat. & Sun. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. 

800)421-5041 

TECHNICAL & CALIFORNIA 



CaUFornia Dici 




64K STATIC RAM - Jade 

Uses new 2K x 8 static RAMs. fully supports IEEE 696 24 bit 

extended addressing, 200ns RAMs. lower 32K or entire 

board phantomable, 2716 EPROMs may be subbed for 

RAMs, any 2K segment of upper 8K may be disabled, low 

power typically less than 500ma 

MEM-99152B 

MEM-99152K 

MEM-32152K 

MEM-56152K 

MEM-64152K 



EXPANDORAM III 

SD Systems new ExpandoRAM III is a high density S-100 
memory board utilizing the new 64K x 1 dynamic RAM 
chips. It allows memory sizes of 64K, 128K or 256K all on a 
single S-100 board 

MEM-65064A 64K $495.00 

MEM-65128A 128K $595.00 

MEM-65192A 192K $675.00 

MEM-65256A 256K $755.00 





$49 05 


Kit less RAM 


$99.95 


32 kit 


$199.95 


5KK kit 


$?B9 95 


K4K k,t 


S299 95 


rested add $50 00 




Letter Quality Printer - BMC 

Wordstar compatible, Diablo protocals, proportional 
and incremental spacing, 16 CPS bi-directional printing, 
10. 12 or 15 CPI, up to 17-inch wide paper Available 
in parallel or serial versions. 

PRD-52001 Parallel $799.00 

PRD-52002 Serial $829.00 

PRA-52000 Tractor option $159.95 



380Z by D.T.C. 



Based on the same quality mechanism as the Comrex 
printer, the 380Z contains electronic enhancements that 
allow it to print at speeds up to 32 CPS Other features 
include a 48K buffer, proportional spacing, and Diablo 
1640/1660/630 compatible protocol Comes with 
printwheel, ribbon and users manual Serial, parallel, and 
IEEE 488 interfaces standard. 



PRD-11300 380Z printer 

PRA-11000 Tractor option _ 
PRA-1200 Cut sheet feeder 
Cable Please specify 



51295.00 

$169.95 

$699.95 

$49.95 



Printers From Jade 

SEIKOSHA 10" Graphics, 30 CPS 



$229.95 



120 CPS 

160 CPS with Graphics 
160 CPS with Graphics 
120 CPS with Tractor _ 



OKIDATA 82 

OKIOATA 92 

OKIDATA 93 

OKIDATA 83 

OKIDATA 84 

OKIDATA 2350 15 

OKIDATA 2410 15" 350 CPS. Two color _ 

DAISYWRITER 2000 48K Daisywheel 

GEMINI 10 100 CPS 10" with Graphics 

GEMINI 15 100 CPS 15" with Graphics 

COMREX CR1 



19" 200 CPS with Graphics 
350 CPS 



_ CALL 

CALL 

CALL 

CALL 

_ CALL 

_ CALL 

CALL 

$1395.00 

$349.95 

$499.95 

$849.95 



PRINTER PALS — FMJ 

Desk top printer stand and paper rack Fits all printers 

PRA-99080 10" Printer pal $29.95 

PRA-99100 15" Printer pal $39.95 

PRA-99700 lor Letter Quality $49.95 




S-100_ 

I/O BO ARDS 



The BUS PROBE — Jade 

Inexpensive S-100 Diagnostic Analyzer 

TSX-200B Bare board 

TSX-200K Kit 

TSX-200A A S. T 



_ $59.95 
$129.95 
$159.95 



1/0-4 — SSM Microcomputer 

2 serial I/O ports plus 2 parallel I/O ports 
IOI-1010A A & T 



l/OS — SSM Microcomputer 

Two serial & 3 parallel ports, 110-19 2K Baud 
IOI-1015A A & T $289.95 

INTER FACER 4 — CompuPro 

3 serial, 1 parallel, 1 Centronics parallel 

IOI-1840A A & T $389.95 

IOI-1830C CSC $495.00 



• !• 



PB-1 — SSM Microcomputer 

2708, 2716 EPROM board with on-board programmer 

MEM-99510K Kit with manual $154.95 

MEM-99510A A & T with manual $219.95 

PROM-100 — SD Systems 

2708,2716, 2732 EPROM programmer with software 

MEM-99520K Kit with software $189.95 

MEM-99520A A & T with software $249.95 



VIDEO MONITOR — Jade 

1000 lines ultra-high resolution, 20 MHz ultra-high band 
width, 9" or 12". Amber or Green phosphor, the finest 
monitors we sell 

VDM-740920 9" Green $99.95 

VDM-740910 9" Amber $129.95 

VDM-751220 12" Green $129.95 

VOM-751210 12" Amber $139.95 



12" GREEN SCREEN — Zenith 

15MHz, 40 or 80 column 

VDM-201201 12" Green 



DUAL DISK 
SUB-SYSTEMS 



DISK Sub-Systems — Jade 

Handsome metal cabinet with proportionally balanced air 
flow system, rugged dual drive power supply power cable 
kit, power switch, line cord, fuse holder, cooling fan, 
nevermar rubber feet, all necessary hardware to mount 2- 
8" disk drives, power supply, and fan, does not include 
signal cable. 
Dual 8" Sub-Assembly Cabinet 

END-000420 Bare cabinet $49.95 

END-000421 Cabinet kit $199.95 

END-000431 A & T $249.95 

8" Sub-Systems — Single Sided, Double Density 
END-000423 Kit w 2 Siemens FDIOOSDs _ $650.00 
END-000424 A & T w/2 Siemens FD100-8DS _ $695.00 

END-000433 Kit w/2 Shugart SA-801RS $999.95 

END-000434 A & T w 2 Shugart SA-801 Rs _ $1195.00 
8" Sub-Systems — Double Sided, Double Density 

END-000426 Kit w/2 Qume DT-8s $1224.95 

END-000427 A & T w 2 Qume D-8s $1424.95 

END-000436 Kit w 2 Shugart SA-851 Rs 51274.95 

END-000434 A & T wi2 Shugart SA-801RS $1195.00 




ISO-BUS - Jade 

Silent, simple and on sale — a better motherboard 
6 Slot (5%" x 8%"; 



MBS-061B 
MBS-061K 


Rare hnarrl 
Kit 


$22.95 
$39.95 


MBS-061A 


A S, T 


$69.95 


MBS-121B 
MBS-121K 


12 Slot tt%" x &/,") 
Rare hnarrl 
Kit 


$34.95 
$69.95 


MBS-121A 


A A T 


$109.95 


MBS-1B1B 


18 Slot (14V 2 " x »/,") 


$54.95 


MBS-181K 


Kit 


$99.95 


MBS-181A 


A A T 


$149.95 



S-100 

CPU BO ARDS 



The BIG Z — Jade 

2 or 4 MHz switachable Z-80 CPU board with serial I/O 
accommodates 2708. 2716. or 2732 EPROM. baud rates 
from 75 to 9600 

CPU-30201B Bare board wlmanual 

CPU-30201K Kit with Manual 



CPU-30201A A 8, T with Manual . 



535.00 
$149.95 
$199.95 



SBC 200 - SD Systems 

4 MHz Z-80A CPU with serial & parallel I/O. 
ROM space, monitor PROM included. 
CPU-30200A A & T 



CPU-Z CompuPro 



2 or 4 MHz Z80A CPU. 24 bit addressing 

CPU-30500A 2/4 MHz A & T 

CPU-30500C 3 6 MHz CSC 



5279.95 
$374.95 



8085/8088 — CompuPro 



Both 8 & 16 bit CPUs, standard 8 bit S-100 bus, up to 8 
MHz, accesses 16 Megabytes of memory 

CPU-20510A 6 MHz A T $429.95 

CPU-20510C 6 8 MHz CSC $529.95 



PLACE ORDERS TOLL FREE 



Continental U.S. 
800-421-5500 



Inside California 
800-262-1710 



For Technical Inquires 
or Customer Service call: 

213-973-7707 



We accept cash, checks, credit cards, or Purchase Orders from qualified firms and institutions. 
Minimum prepaid order $15.00 California residents add 6y 2 % tax. Export customers outside the US or Canada please 
add 10% to all prices. Prices end avalllblllty subject to change without notice. Shipping and handling charges 
via UPS Ground 50«/lb. UPS Air $1.00/lb. minimum charge $3.00 



jrny rc^TwniTEi^ eeehse 



ran* 



Tandon TM100-1 single-sided double-density 48 TPI 

MSM-551001 $219.95 ea 2 (or $199.95 ea 

Shugart SA400L single-sided double-density 40 track 

MSM-104000 $234.95 ea 2 for $224.95 ea 

Tandon TM100-2 double-sided double-density 48 TPI 
MSM-551002 $294.95 ea 2 (or $269.95 

MPI B52 double sided, double density, 48 TPI can be 

substituted for CDC. 

MSM-1 55200 $299.95 ea 2 for $279.00 ea 

MPI B51 single sided, double density 48 TPI 

MSM-1 55100 $239.95 ea 2 for $199.95 ea 

5 1 /," Cabinets With Power Supply 

END-000216 Single cab w/power supply $69.95 

END000226 Dual cab w power supply $94.95 



Smart Buy in MODEMS — Signalman ULTRA-VIOLET EPROM ERASERS 




Dual Slimline Sub-Systems — Jade 

Handsome vertical cabinet with scratch resistant baked 
enamel finish, proportionally balanced air fiow system 
quiet cooling fan, rugged dual drive power supply, power 
cables, power switch, line cord, fuse holder, cooling fan 
all necessary hardware to mount 2-8" slimline disk drives 
Does not include signal cable. 
Dual 8" Slimline Cabinet 

END-000820 Bare cabinet $59.95 

END-000822 A & T w o drives $179.95 

Dual 8" Slimline Sub-Systems 

END-000823 Kit w/2 SS DD Drives 

END-000824 A & T w/2 SS DD Drives . 
END-000833 Kit w/2 DS DD Drives 



END-000834 A & T w 2 DS DD Drives 



. $919.95 

_ $949.95 

$1149.95 

$1179.95 



Siemens FDD 100-8 single-sided double-density 

MSF-201120 $274.95 ea 2 for $249.95 ea 

Shugart SA801R single-sided double-density 

MSF-10801R $394.95 ea 2 for $389.95 ea 

Shugart SA851R double-sided double density 

MSF-10851R $554.95 ea 2 for $529.95 ea 

Oume DT-8 double-sided double-density 

MSF-750080 $524.95 ea 2 for $498.95 ea 

Tandon TM8481 single-sided double-den thin-line 

MSF-558481 $379.96 ea 2 for $369.95 ea 

Tandon TMB48-2 double-sided double-den thin-line 

MSF-558482 $494.95 ea 2 for 5484.95 

NEC FD1165 double-sided double-den thin-line 
MSF-851165 $484.95 ea 2 for $449.95 




1200 and/or 300 baud, direct connect, automatic answer or 
originate selection, auto-answer/auto-dial on deluxe 
models 9v battery allows total portability, full one year 
warranty 

IOM-5600A 300 baud direct connect $89.95 

IOM-5610A 300 baud Deluxe $149.95 

IOM-5620A t200 300 baud Deluxe $369.95 

IOM-5650A 300 baud tor Osborne $119.95 

IOM-5630A 300 baud card lor IBM $269.95 

IOM-5690A 1200 baud option for IBM S129.95 

SMARTMODEM — Hayes 

Sophisticated direct-connect auto-answer/auto-dial 
modem, touch-tone or pulse dialing RS-232C interface 
programmable 

IOM-5500A Smartmodem 1200 $574.95 

IOM-5400A Smartmodem 300 $224.95 

IOK-1500A Hayes Chronograph $218.95 

IOM-1100A Micromodem 100 $368.95 

IOM-2010A Micromodem II w/Term prgm $329.95 

IOM-2012A Terminal program lor MMII $89.95 

1200 BAUD SMART CAT— Novation 

103/212 Smart Cat & 103 Smart Cat, 1 200 & 300 baud, built- 
in dialer, auto re-dial if busy, auto answer/disconnect, 
direct connect. LCD readout displays mode analog/digital 
loopback self tests, usable with multi-line phones 

IOM-5241A 300 baud 103 Smart Cat $229.95 

IOM-5251A 1200 baud 212 103 Smart Cat $549.95 

J-CAV MODEM — Novation 

1/5 the size of ordinary modems. Bell 103. manual orauto- 
answer, automatic answer/orginate. direct connect, built- 
in self-test, two LEDs and audio beeps provide status 
information. 
IOM-5261A Novation 




VERSAFLOPPY II - SD Systems 

Double density disk controller for any combination of 5%" 
and 8" single or double sided, analog phase-locked loop 
data seperator, vectored interrupts, CP/M 2.2 & Oasis 
compatible control/diagnostic software PROM included 

IOD-1160A A & T With Prom $359.95 

SFC-55009047F CPM 3.0 With VF-II $139.95 

2422 DISK CONTROLLER — CCS. 

5%" or 8" double density disk controller with on-board 
boot loader ROM, free CP/M 2 2 & manual set 
IOO-1300A A a T with CP M 2 2 $399.95 

DOUBLE D — Jade 

High reliability double density disk controller with on- 
board Z-80A. auxiliary printer port, IEEE S-100 can 
function in multi-user interrupt driven bus 

IOD-1200B Bare board & hdwr man $59.95 

IOD-1200K Kit wlhdwr <S sftwr man $299.95 

IOD-1200A A & T w'hdwr & sftwr man $325.00 

SFC-59002001F CPiM 2.2 with Double D $99.95 



DISK TUBS 



DISKETTE STORAGE BOXES 

Clear Plexiglass storage boxes (or up to 75 Diskettes 

MMA-505 Holds 75 5%" $19.95 

MMA-508 Holds 50 8" $24.95 



Inexpensive erasers for industry or home 

XME-3100A Spectronics w/o timer 

XME-3101A Spectronics with timer 

XME-3200A Logical Devices 



$69.50 
$94.95 
$49.95 



APPLEJL 
ACCESSORIES 



SUPER DISKETTE SPECIAL! 

We bought out a major manufacturer's overstock, and 
we are passing the savings on to you! Single sided, double 
density, package of 10 in plastic library case. 



MMD-5121003 Apple Diskettes 



$18.95 
$16.95 



DISK DRIVE - Fourth Dimension 

Totally Apple compatible. 143,360 bytes per drive on DOS 
3 3 full one year factory warranty, half-track capability 
reads all Apple software, plugs right into Apple controller 
as second drive. DOS 3 3, 32 1 Pascal. & CP/M 
compatible. 

MSM-431010 Forth Dimension drive $249.95 

MSM-431030 Controller only $60.00 

MSM-431040 Controller with software $99.95 



HALF— HEIGHT DRIVE - Laser Micro. 

Totally Apple Compatible Works with all Apple software 
and controllers Faster and quieter than most other drives 
yet only half the size! 
MSM-571010 Laser half-height $299.95 



$149.95 CP/M 3.0 CARD for Apple — A.L.S. 

The most powerful card available for your Apple! 

6MHz Z-80B, additional 64K of RAM, CP/M 3,0 plus 100% 
CP/M 22 compatibility. C basic. CP/M Graphics. 300% 
faster than any other CP/M for Apple One year warranty 
CPX-62810A A.L.S. CP/M Card $349.95 



Z-CARD for Apple II — A.L.S. 

Two computers in one.Z-80 &6502, more than doubles the 
power and potential of your Apple, includes Z-80 CPU 
card CP/M 2.2 and complete manual set. Pascal. 
compatible utilities are menu-driven, one year warranty. 
CPX-62800A A & T with CP/M 2 2 $159.95 



80 COLUMN APPLE CARD 

80 column x 24 line video card for Apple II, 
addressable 25th status line, normal/inverse or high/low 
video, 128 ASCII characters, upper and lower case, 7x9 
dot matrix with true descenders, CP/M, Pascal & Fortran 
compatible, 50/60 Hz. 40/80 column selection from 
keyboard Best 80 column card! 



IOV-2450A Viewmax 80 ____ 

IOV-2455A Preboot disk for above 



$149.95 
_ $29.95 



16K RAM Card — for Apple II 

Expand your Apple II 64 K. use as language card, full 1 year 

warranty Why spend SUSOO? 

MEX-16700A Save over $115.00 $49.95 

GRAPPLER PLUS - Orange Micro 

The ultimate parallel printer Graphics interface card with 
many new features, now at a new low price 1 

IOP-2300A Grappler Plus ________ $139.95 




Computer Products 

4901 West Rosecrans, Hawthorne, California 90250 



Circle 218 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 561 



SIXTH ANNIVERSARY SA 

NOT JUST AN ORDINARY SALE! WE HAVE SLASHED PRICES TO THE BONE AS OUR WAY OF THANKING 

YOU, OUR VALUED CUSTOMERS FOR 6 YEARS OF LOYALTY. WE'VE CONTINUOUSLY GROWN AND EXPANDED DY 

OFFERING YOU THE REST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WITH THE REST AFTER-SALE SUPPORT 



* 



K 
^ 




CPU DOARDS 

66 K - 66000 16 DIT CPU 



BS6BT184A 
BS6BT184C 



Description 

A&T 8MHz 
CSC 10MHz 



lilt Price Our Price 
$695 00 $518.95 
3850 00 $765.00 



CP/M 68K NOW AVAILABLE!! 

N.-iw r.nmnnPm ^nfl nmila! Research bono vou CP/M for the 68000" 



BSGBTCPM68K 68000 CP/M' S3SO.OO 

FORTH OPERATING SYSTEM FOR 68K CPU 

Requires d DISK 1 64K ol CompuPro memory and an INTERFACER3 or 4 



CO-PROCESSOR 8066/8067 

16 bit 8 or 10 MHz 8086 CPU with sockets for 8087 and 80136 

S 750.00 $494.95 



BSGBT186A A&T 8MHz 8086 only 

BSGBT186C CSC 10MHz 8086 only $85000 $764.89 

BSGBT186A87 A&T with 8087 option $1050.00 $939.00 

BSGBTI86C87 CSC with 8087 option' $1150.00 SI 065.00 

"8087 Limits clock speed to 5MHz 

DUAL PROCESSOR 6065-6088 

6 or 8 MHz provides true 1 6 Bit Power with a standard 8 bit S-100 bus 

$495.00 $318.97 



BSGBT1612A 
BSGBTI8I2C 



A&T 6MHz 
CSC 6/8 MHz 



$595.00 $497.87 



CPUZ - Z60D CPU NOW 6MHz! 

3/6 MHz Z80B CPU with 24 Bit Addressing. 
FASTEST ZBO CPU AVAILABLE! 



BSGBTI60A 3/6 MHz A&T 

BSGBTI60C 3/6 MHz CSC 



$325.00 $228.95 
$425.00 $374.87 



DISK CONTROLLERS 
DISK 1 DMA FLOPPY CONTROLLER 

Fast DMA. Soft Sector, Controls Up to Four 8" or 5'A" Single or 
Double Density Drives! 



BSPDB171ACPM A&T w/CPM 2 2" & BIOS $670.00 

When purchased w/two 8" disk drives only 

BS6BII71CCPM CSC W/CP/M 2.2* & BIOS $770.00 



$489.00 
$450.00 

$595.00 
$368.95 
$550.00 
$148.95 



BSGBT171A Disk 1 Controller A&T $495 00 

BSGBT171C Disk 1 Controller CSC $59500 

BSGBTCPM80 CP/M 2 2' for Z80/8085 w/manual & 

BIOS 8" S/D disk 
BSGBTCPM86 CP/M 2 2* for 8086 w/manuals & BIOS $258.95 

8" S/D disk 

DISK 2/SELECTOR CHANNEL 
HARD DISK CONTROLLER 

Fast DMA 2 board set controls 4 Shugart 4000 series or Fujitsu 2300 
type drives. Includes CP/M 2.2*. 



BSGBT177A Assembled & Tested 
BSGBT177C CSC 



$79500 $568.95 

$89500 $850.00 

M-DRIVE/H HARDWARE LOGICAL DISK SYSTEM 

Interfaces through two I/O ports, and runs at 1 0MHz IEEE 696 compatible. 

Requires any CompuPro CPU and a DISK 1 . Each board contains 51 2K of 

fast, low power (900mA) RAM, with parity checking. 

BSGBT197A M-DRIVE/H w/soltware, A&T $1895.00 $1295.00 
BSGBT197C M-DRIVE/Hw/software,CSC $2095.00 $1495.00 

STATIC RAM 

RAM 17 - 64K CMOS STATIC RAM 

12 MHz, RAM 17, 2 Watt, DMA Compatible 24 Bit Addressing 



BSGBT175A64 
BSGBT175C64 



64K A&T 12MHz 
64K CSC 12MHz 



$499.00 $460.00 
$599.00 $550.00 



RAM 16 - 02K x 16 DIT CMOS STATIC RAM 

8 and/or 16 Bit 12MHz, RAM 16, 32K x 16 or64K x 8 IEEE/696 
1 6 Bit 2 Watt, 24 Bit Addressing 

$550 00 $510.00 



BSGBT180A 

BSGBT180C 



64 K A&T 
64K CSC 



2MHz 
12MHz 



$650 00 $610.00 



RAM 21 - 128K STATIC RAM 

816 RAM 21 12MHz, 128K x 8 or 64K x 16 IEEE/696 
(|l?) 8 or 16 Bit, 1,2 Amps, 24 Bit Addressing 



BSGBT19BA 
BSGBT190C 



128K A&T 
128K CSC 



$1095.00 $995.00 
$1245.00 $1125.00 




I/O DOARDS 

SYSTEM SUPPORT 1 MULTIFUNCTION DOARD 

Serila port (software prog, baud), 4 K RAM included, 1 5 levels of 
interrupt, real time clock, optional math processor 



Part No. 



Oeuription 



Lilt Price Our Price 



BSGBT162A 

BSG8T162C 

BSGBTB23I 

BSGB1B232 

BSGBT162AM1 

BSGBT162CM1 

BSGBT162AM2 

BSGBT162CM2 



Assembled & Tested 

CSC 

Math Chip 

Math Chip 

A&T w/8231 Math Chip 

CSC w/8231 Math Chip 

A&T w/8232 Math Chip 

CSC w/8232 Math Chip 



$450.00 $308.95 

$55000 $495.00 
$195.00 
$195.00 

$64500 $538.95 

$74500 $670.00 

$645.00 $538.95 

$74500 $670.89 



MPX CHANNEL DOARDS 

1/0 Multiplexer, using 8085A-2 CPU on board w/16K RAM 



BSGBT166A16 Assembled & Tested 
BSGBT166C16 CSC 

INTERFACER 1 

Two Serial I/O 



$649.00 $584.89 
$74900 $674.89 



BSGBT133A 
BSGBTI33C 



Assembled & Tested 
CSC 



$295 00 $198.95 

$370.00 $329.00 



INTERFACER 2 

Three parallel, one serial I/O board 



BSBBT150A 
BSGBT150C 



Assembled & Tested 
CSC 



$32500 $249.00 

$399.00 $359.00 



INTERFACER 3 

Eight-channel multi-user serial I/O board 



BSGBT1748A Assembled & Tested 

BSG8T1748C CSC 200 hr 8 port 

BSGBT1745A Assembled & TEsted 

BSGBT1745C CSC 200 hr. 5 port 



$699.00 $448.95 
$849.00 $748.19 

$599.00 $518.95 

$699.00 $828.89 



INTERFACER 4 

Three Serial. 1 Parallel. 1 Centronics Parallel 



BSGBT187A 
BSGBT187C 



Assembled & Tested 
CSC 



$45000 $314.87 

$540.00 $414.87 



S-100 MOTHERBOARDS 

Active Termination. 6-12-20 Slot 



BSGBT153A 
BSGBT153C 
8SGBTI54A 
BSGBT154C 
BSGBT155A 
BSGBT155C 



A&T 6 slot (2 Its.) 
CSC 6 slot (2 lbs.) 
A&T 12 slot (3 lbs.) 
CSC '2 slot (3 lbs.) 
A&T 20 slot (4 lbs) 
CSC 20 slot (4 lbs.) 



$140.00 $125.00 
$190.00 $155.00 

$175 oo $155.00 

$240.00 $220.00 
$26500 $235.00 

$34000 $310.00 



California Computer Systems 

Z60 CPU 2 or 4MHz 

On board RS232 Serial port, On board 2K Monitor, ROM, Power on 
lump to any location in 64 K, LED status indicators for ROM select, 

halfstate and interrupts. 
BSCCS2810A Z80A4MHZ CPU A&T $325.00 $258.95 

CCS271901 

BSCCS271901 2 Serial. 2 Parallel. A&T $360.00 $288.95 

CCS27201 

BSCCS27200I 4 Port Parallel, A&T $275.00 $218.95 

CCS271001 

BSCCS27100I 4 Port Serial. A&T $32500 $278.95 

CCS2800 

BSCCS283001 Assembled & Tested $550 00 $428.95 

CCS206601 

64K Dynamic S-100 RAM, Cromemco CR0MIX™ Compatible. 
BSCCS20B601 Assembled & Tested $450.00 $425.00 

CCS2422A 

Floppy disk controller w/CP/M 2.2" 

$47500 $338.95 



BSCCS2422A Assembled & Tester. 



«337 



105 

2 Serial. 3 Parallel S-100 Interlace 



Description 



List Price Our Price 



Assembled & Tested 



$329.00 $289,95 



I06 

. Port Serial 1/0 S-100 Board 



BSSSMI08A 



Assembled & Tested 



$55000 $450.00 



I04 

2 Serial, 2 Parallel I/O S-100 Board 



Assembled & Tested 



$29000 $245.00 



2706/2716 EPROM PROGRAMMER 6 EPROM DOARD 

Programs 2708 and 271 6 EPROMs Holds4 2708s (4K) or 4 271 6s (8K) 



BSSSMB8A 



Assembled & Tested 



$265.00 $219.87 



DUAL. 



NON VOLATILE CMOS RAMS 

. 16, or 32K. 8 or 16 Bit Data. Battery Backup On Board 6MHz, 
Bank Selectable 



BS0ULCMEM8 8K A&T 
BSDULCMEMie 16KA&T 
BSD0LCMEM32 32K A&T 



$495.00 $450.00 
$59500 $550.00 
$69500 $850.00 



256K DYNAMIC MEMORY 

256K. 230 ns access time, 2 x 128K organization. 24 bit addressing, 
parity error detection. 

BSD0LDMEM25SK Assembled & Tested $129500 $1195.00 
32/64K EPROM DOARD 

8 or 16 bit data, holds 2716s (32K) or 2732s (64K) 



BSDULEP80M32 For 2716s A&T 
BSDULEP80M64 For 2732s A&T 



$29500 $275.00 
$295.00 $275.00 



A/D CONVERTER 

12 Bit Resolution 16 or 32 Channel input 



BSDULAIM12 Assembled & Tested 
BSD0LAIM12B Without inslru Amp 



369500 $625.00 
$645.00 $598.00 



D/A CONVERTER 

4 Channel, 1 2 Bit. 3 Output Modes 



BS0ULA0MI2 Assembled & Tested 



$695.00 $618.95 



/ 



SIERRA DATA SCIENCES 

S-100 SDC DOARD 

Z80A 4MHz. 2 Serial RS232 interfaces. 1 parallel interface, 64K RAM, 
Floppy Disk Controller, provisions for one 2732 EPROM — 

ALL ON THIS ONE BOARD!' 

BSSDSSBC Z80A SBC A&T $895 00 $655.00 

BSS0SCPM CP/M ■ Operating System on 8" disk $150.00 

BSSBSTUBBOS Single User TurboDos™ on 8" disk $450.00 

BSSOSTURBDM Multi-User TurboDos" on 8" disk $750.00 

S-100 Z80A SLAVE SDC 

Z80A 4MHz, 2 RS232 Serial ports, 4 parallel ports. 64K RAM. EPROM 

Programmer Used in multi-user computer system with SDSSBC. 
BSSOSSBCSE Slave Z80 SBC A&T $825 00 $565.00 



^P^H^I 64K-4MHZ 

California Computer Systems DYNAMIC RAM 

• Operates with either an 8080 or 2-80, providing processor transparent 
refreshes • Bank-select system • Any 16K block can be made bank- 
independent • Phantom input • Assembled & Tested 
REGULAR LIST PRICE IS $375.00 

$1 75.00 each 
4/$640.00 

BSCCS20653 (Shipping Weight 2 lbs.) 
RAM BOARD DISK DRIVE BONUS! 

As an added bonus, PRIORITY ONE ELECTRONICS is giving away 
software developed by Micro Resources that will allow 4 CCS20653 
boards to be used as an in-memory disk drive! This allows for an incredible 
speed increase in your computer! This software is available only with the 
purchase of 4 CCS20653 memory boards. Use Part Number BSMRSHDSK. 
(Shipping Weight: 1 lb.) 



RETAIL STORE PHONE NUMBERS: (Chotsworth:) (210) 709-5464 - (IRVINE:) (714) 660-141 1 

Circle"527 on Inquiry Card 



PRIORITY ONE IS NUMBER 1! 

OTHERS COME AND GO, WHILE WE HAVE BECOME THE LARGEST MAIL-ORDER DISTRIBUTOR IN THE MICRO- 
COMPUTER INDUSTRY. ORDER WITH CONFIDENCE. WHEN YOU HAVE A QUESTION, WE'LL BE HERE NEXT WEEK, NEXT 
MONTH AND NEXT YEAR! WE'RE NUMDER 1 AND STILL TRYING HARDER! 



S-IOO MAINFRAMES 

PARADYNAMICS 

BSPDN2018D 1 8 slot desk top |4S lbs) S6GO.OO 

BSPDN2018H t8 slot rack mount |45 lbs) $695.00 

BSPDN2818S 18 slot w/power-seq floor standing $1 1 90.00 1 

(Shipped freight collect) 

BSPDNZ6I8 Same hs above w/no power up seq $1 1 50.00 1 

(Shipped freight collect* 

SIERRA DATA SCIENCES 



BSSDSMf 12 slot mainframe (30 lbs) $595. OO 

BSS0SWNMCP6 Same as above w/no poewr up seq, $595.00 
(Shipped freight collect) 



Q.T. COMPUTER 



BSQTCMF M.lintrane no motherboart) (45 lbs I $305.00 

BSQTCMFI2 12 slot rrantrame {45 lbs) $469.00 

BSPTCMFI8 18 slot mainframe (45 lbs I $499.00 \ 

BSQTCMF22 22 slot mainframe (45 lbs) $530.00 I 

BSGTCMFMB Nn motherboard cutouts tor two $345. OO | 

'V drives |45 lbs I 

BSQTCMFMD6 h slot two 5V cutouts (45 lbs) S530.00 

BSQTCWFM01212 slot two 5' ." cutouts (45 lbs I $560.00 

BSQTCMFD06 6 slot two 8" cutouts (48 lbs I $530.00 

BSQTCMFDD8 8 Slot two 8" cutouts (48 lbs I $595.00 

BSQTCMFDD12 12 slot, two 8" cutouts (48 lbs) $625.00 

COMPUPRO 



BSGBTENC20DK 20 slot desk top iSh Freight Collect} $658.95 
BSGBTENC20HM 20 slot desk top (Sh Freight Collect! $695. OO 



CompuPro 



COMPLETE 8 BIT ENTRY 
LEVEL CP/M® BASED 
COMPUTER SYSTEM 




LOOK AT WHAT YOU GET! 

List Price 



Bum Mi 


6 MHzZ80 CPU 




$325.00 


BSGBTI7U 


DMA DiskController 




$495.00 


BSGBT206SP 


Dual OUME Drives and Cabinet 


I/O 


$2395.08 


BSG8T187A 


3 Serial, 1 Parallel, 1 Centronics 


$399.00 


BSGBTRAM17 


64 K Static RAM 




$499.09 


BS6BTENC200K 


20 Slot S-100 Mainframe 




$825.00 


BSGBTCPM80 


CP/M 2 2' with BIOS 




$175.00 


BSGBTCB14 


3 Port Serial Cable to Cabinet 




$ 44.90 


BSSBTCB19 


Centronics Cable to Cabinet 




S 29.50 


BSPGC50S80S 


5' Drive Cable 




$ 19.77 


TOTAL PURCHASE VALUE: $5206.27 



BUY IT NOW 
FOR ONLY: 




BSPDBGBT8BT 

SAVE $171 1.27!! 



DUAL QUME 8" FLOPPY DRIVE. 
CADINET, DMA S-100^ ^^^ ^^ 
CONTROLLER $ 1 595. 00 

AMD f P/IMI® JSPDBBBTSYS206 (Shipped freight collect) 

From 



ompuPro 



YOU SAVE 
$1419.77!! 



ABSOLUTELY THE MOST COST EFFECTIVE • 2 Double sided 8 
DISK SUBSYSTEM EVER OFFERED • dma Floppy Con 
BY PRIORITY ONE ELECTRONICS * CP '* 



I 6BT206SP 
□ uuivm l 1 6BT171A 

DMA Floppy Controllet (controls up to 4 drivesl 1 GBTCPM80 
CP/M 2 2 ' w/BIOS written lor the Disk 1 Controller I PGC50S50S 



.DINET AND 2 QUME DT8 DOUDLE SIDED DRIVES>1 295.00 



ROVIDE 2.4 MDYTES OF MASS STORAGE!! 



BSGBT286SP ISh Wt 



SAVE $1030.00!! 




CompuPro 



UN-SYSTEM 816 




DIG DEEP!! Now is the time to buy 
the CompuPro UN-SYSTEM 816!! 

SAVE MONEY, and have an UN-SYSTEM 816 for your very own' All 
UN-SYSTEMS contain the very same components as the SYSTEM 
816s listed in our Winter 1983 Engineering Selection Guide, but are not 
installed or configured. All il takes is your professional computer 
experience and knowledge to have the highest performing S-100 
computer system on the market today. BEWARE! This is not for the 
novice and inexperienced user, as it requires a well-matured knowledge 
in system integration procedures. 

UN-SYSTEM 816/A 

ENTRY LEVEL- SINGLE USER 

Disk storage: 24 Megabytes. Expandable to 4 8 Megabytes 

Main memory: 128K - expandable to 1 Megabyte 

Serial Ports 4 / Parallel Ports: 1 

Centronics/Epson ports 1 

Software: CP/M 2.2'", CP/M-86", M-Drive. SuperCalc-86. dBase 

Component List Price: $6705.00 BSGBTUNSVSAI 6 

OUR SALE PRICE: 



UN-SYSTEM 816/B 

ENHANCED HIGH PERFORMANCE 
SINGLE USER SYSTEM 

Disk Storage: 24 Megabytes Expandable to 4.8 Megabytes. 

Main memory: 256K - expandable to t Megabyte 

Serial ports: 6 

Software: CP/M 2.2" CP/M-86". M-Drive, SuperCalc-86". dBase 

II" 

Component List Price: $8497 00 BSGBTUNSVSB16 

SAVE 

$2903.00!! 

UN-SYSTEM 816/C 

HIGH PERFORMANCE MULTI-USER SYSTEM 

Disk storage: 24 Megabytes Expandable to 4.8 Megabytes. 
Mam memory: 384K - expandable to 1 Megabyte 
Serial ports: 9 

Software: CP/M 2.2". CP/M-86", MP/M 8-16", M-Driye. SuperCalc- 
86". dBase II" 
Component List Price: $9295.00 

OUR SALE PRICE: 



OUR SALE PRICE: 

$5594.00 



$4394.00 



SAVE 

$2311.00!! 



irWMltKII 

SAVE 
$3442.001! 

ALL SYSTEMS SHIPPED FREIGHT COLLECT 



$7194.00 



64K 10MHz LOW POWER S-100 IEEE STATIC RAMs 
RAM 17 RAM 16 

64K8BIT 64K8 or 32K 16 BIT 

24 BIT ADDRESS r^~l 24 BIT ADDRESS 



BSGBTRAH 17 List Price: $499.00 

$299.00 



PRIORITYt 




BSGBTRAM16 List Price: $550.00 

$325.00 



ELECTRONICS 



9161 Peering Ave„, Chatsworth.CA 91311 



ORDER TOLL FREE (600) 420-5922 - CA, AK, HI CALL (210) 709-51 1 1 

Terms U.S VISA. MC, BAC, Check, Money Oraer, U.S FTjndsOnly CA residents add 6Va% Sales Tax. MINIMUM PREPAID ORDERS15T10 Include MINIMUM SHIP- 
ING& HANDLING of $3.00 for the first 3 lbs. plus 40.it for each additional pound. Orders over 50 lbs. sent freight collect. Just in case, include your phone number Prices 
subject to change without notice We will do our best to maintain prices through July, 1 983. Many quantities are limited. Sorry, no rainchecks, no refunds or exchanges 
on sale merchandise Credit Card orders will be charged appropriate freight. Sale prices tor prepaid orders only. We are not responsible for typographical errors. 



RETAIL STORE PHONE NUMDERS: 



(Chatsworfh:) (210) 709-5464 - (IRVINE:) (714) 660-1411 

Circle'a27 on Inquiry Card 



SIXTH ANNIVERSARY SALE! 

NOT JUST AN ORDINARY SALE! WE HAVE SLASHED PRICES TO THE BONE AS OUR WAY OF THANKING 

YOU, OUR VALUED CUSTOMERS FOR 6 YEARS OF LOYALTY. WE'VE CONTINUOUSLY GROWN AND EXPANDED DY 

OFFERING YOU THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WITH THE BEST AFTER-SALE SUPPORT 



SIEMENS FDD100-6 

8" FLOPPY DISK DRIVE 

SINGLE SIDED, DOUBLE DENSITY 
SHUGART 801 R COMPATIBLE 

90 DAY WARRANTY! 

ONCE AGAIN, YOU 

RECEIVE THE 

BENEFIT 

OF OUR 

UNEQUALLED 

PURCHASING 

POWER! 

$199.00 each 



BUY DRIVE & CABINET 

TOGETHER AND (SAVE!! 

DUAL 8" SIEMENS FDD1 008 

DUAL 8" CABINET POWER SUPPLY 

ANO INTERNAL POWER CABLES 

] /«,■».,»., ..,„, (include $30.00 lor shipping^ 




$185.00 



SSure Filter Cooling 
Power Supply 4A:a+5V 3Aa+24V 

1 A tf -5V 
Each output is individually tused • l 



2 to 9 



CALL for 10+ 

OEM INQUIRIES INVITED 

(Include $7 00 per drive for shipping) 
BSSIEFDD1008 

ORDER NOW AND $AVE! 



IF BOUGHT SEPARATELY: $890.00 
OUR ANNIVERSARY PRICE: 

$675.00 

BSPDBIIISIE 

BSIIIFDC002 CABINET ONLY tSh Wt 38 lbs) $295.00 



S-100 DUAL 8" SUBSYSTEM 



BSCCS2422A S-100 Disk Controller with CP/M 2.2® 

BSSIEF0DI008 Siemens Double Density 8" drive 

BSIIIFDE002 Dual Horizontal Cabinet 

with Power Supply 

and Data Cable 

SAVE $132.00!! 



1 $39900 

2 $398.00 
t $295.00 

1 $ 35.00 
$1127.00 



$995 




II 



DON'T 
MISS OUT! 

Order No. 
BSP0BSIESUB1 



{Include $30 00 for shipping) 




OUR FINEST DUAL 8" 
DISK DRIVE CABINET! 




6A 



FEATURES: 

• Positive pressure forced air cooling for reliable disk drive operation 

• AC input via 3 wire 7 foot international cord/socket set 

• AC input EMI filtered to six amps to help prevent disk crashes due to 
power spikes and line noise 

• 14 gauge main chassis 

• Integral power supply with 5 V @ 6A/-5V 9 1 A/24V I 

• Double-sided custom PC power board and supply 

• Each DC supply and AC separately fused 
Part No. Ult Price 

BS UIU0E004 (Sh. Wt 40 lbs) $495.00 

With augmented power supply to handle Tandon Slimline, or Winchester 
disk drives. Includes the disk environment monitor 

BS IIHJDE004AU6 (Sh. Wt 40 lbs) $733.00 $625.00 

With Disk Environment Monitor for cool, reliable operation. "~ 

BSIIIUDE004EM ISh Wt 40 lbs.) $584 95 $495.00 



pur Price 
$425.00 



S-100 HARD DISK SUBSYSTEMS 




by 
MORROW n 

COMPLETE WITH S-100 

CONTROLLER, CP/M 2.2® 

AND MICROSOFT BASIC V5.2 

Part No. Description Ult Price Our Price 



BSMDSM20S 20 Mbyte 8" $4495 00 $3250.00 

BSMDSM2BS 26 Mbyte 14" $4495.00 $3250.00 

(Shipping Weights: M20: 37 lbs.; M26 (3 boxes): 8, 26. S 45 lbs. each) 

ADD-ON DRIVES 

(Dobs not include software and controller) 



BSMDSAtMTO 10 MbyteS" $2795.00 $2050.00 

BSMDSAMM2626 Mbyte 14" $3495.00 $2675.00 

(Shipping Weights: M10: 37 lbs: M26, (2 taxes) 26, S 45 lbs. each) 



FLOPPY DISK DRIVES 

TANDON 5Va" 

BSTNDTM100I 1 Sided 48 TPI (Sh Wt. 5 lbs.) $225.00 

2 FOR S195.00 each 

BSTNDTMI002 2 Sided 48 TPI (Sh. Wt. 5 lbs.) $270.00 

2 FOR S245.00 each 

BSTNDTMI003 1 Sided 96 TPI (Sh. Wt. 5 lbs.) $275.00 

2 FOR S2SO.OO each 

BSTNDTM1004 2 Sided 96 TPI (Sh. Wt. 5 lbs.) $390.00 

2 FOR S365.00 each 



MPI 5Va" FULL HEIGHT 



BSMPI51* 1 Sided 48 TPI 

BSMPI52* 2 Sided 48 TPI 

BSMPI9I* 1 Sided 96 TPI 

BSMPI92* 2 Sided 96 TPI 



S200.00 
$270.00 
S27S.OO 

S400.00 



'Replace with an " 
bezel. 



" for the MPI style bezel, or with an "S" for Shugart style 
(Shipping Weight: 5 lbs.) 



MPI 5V*" HALF HEIGHT 

BSMPI501 1 Sided 48 TPI (Sh. Wt. 4 lbs.) 9200.00 

BSMPI502 2 Sided 48 TPI (Sh. Wt. 4 lbs.) $300.00 

BSMPI9D1 1 Sided 96 TPI (Sh. Wt. 4 lbs.) $300.00 

BSMPI902 2 Sided 96 TPI (Sh. Wt 4 lbs.) $355.00 

SHUGART 8" FULL HEIGHT 

BSSHIM01R 1 sided (18 lbs.) $369.00 

QUME 8" FULL HEIGHT 



BSQMEDT8 2 sided (18 lbs.) 



$490.00 

2 FOB $465.00 ea. 



MITSUBISHI 8" FULL HEIGHT 



BSMITM289483B 2 sided (18 lbs.) 



$425.00 



MPI 8" FULL HEIGHT 



BSMPI41S 1 sided (11 lbs.) 
BSMPI42$ 2 sided (11 lbs.) 



$3BO.OO 

$460.00 



MPI 8" DUAL HALF HEIGHT 

(SAME SIZE AS ONE FULL HEIGHT) 



BSMPMID 1 sided (22 lbs.) 
B$MPI42D 2 sided (22 lbs.) 



$760.00 
$870.00 



TANDON 8" HALF HEIGHT 



BSTN0TMB48I 1 sided (9 lbs.) 
BSTNDTMB4B2 2 sided (9 lbs.) 



$395.00 

2 FOB $375.00 ea. 

S49S.OO 

2 FOB 475.00 ea. 



MPI 8" HALF HEIGHT 



BSMPI41 M 1 sided (1 1 lbs.) 
B$MPI42M 2 sided (1 1 lbs.) 



$380.00 
$460.00 



5V4" DRIVE CADINETS 



BSJMR1C5 Single 5V«" Cabinet (5 lbs) S69.00 

B$JMB2C5 Dual 5 V Cabinef (9 lbs.) $89.00 

BSJMR2C5C JMR2C5 w/mternal data cable (9 lbs) $99.00 



DUAL 8" HALF HEIGHT 
FLOPPY CABINET 



24V @ 4A. 5V 9 3A nxi 

■5V @ BOOma 

Fan cooled 

Socketed power connections 

All supplies regulated 



I 






Uit Price Oor Price 



BSIIIDTL002 



DualThin Line Cabinet (12 lbs.) $225.00 $165.00 

DUY THE CABINET & DRIVES AND SAVE! 
With 2 Tandon Thinllnes 

BSPDBIIITHDI Cabinet w/2TNDTM8481-1sided(30 lbs.) $ 885.00 
BSPDBIHTND2 Cabinet w/2 TMQ1M84B? ? sidedl30 lbs) $1115.00 

With 2 MPI Slimlines 

BSP0BII1MPII Cabinet w/2 MPI41M - 1 sided (30 lbs.) $920.00 
BSPDBIIIMPI2 Cabinet w/2 MPI42M - 2 sided (30 lbs.) $1080.00 



Options 



BSIIIDTLMPIKIT MPI drive adaptur mounting kit (2 lbs.) 
BSIIIDCCSHU Shugart / AC/DC power connector kit (2 lbs.) 
(For full size single SA801 or compatible drives) 



$24.95 

$14.95 



RETAIL STORE PHONE NUMBERS: (Chotsworth:) (213) 709-5464 



(IRVINE:) (714) 660-141 1 

Circle"327 on Inquiry Card 



PRIORITY ONE IS NUMBER 11 

OTHERS COME AND GO, WHILE WE HAVE BECOME THE LARGEST MAIL-ORDER DISTRIBUTOR IN THE MICRO- 
COMPUTER INDUSTRY. ORDER WITH CONFIDENCE. WHEN YOU HAVE A QUESTION, WE'LL BE HERE NEXT WEEK, NEXT 
MONTH AND NEXT YEAR! WE'RE NUMBER 1 AND STILL TRYING HARDER! 



APPLE ll/lle DISK DRIVES 

Drive, Cartridges, DMA Controller, Cabinet and Power Supply 
FULLY APPLE II & lie COMPATIBLE!! 

ADD-ON DRIVE 

BSVIS3101 $229.00 

DISK DRIVE WITH CONTROLLER 

Bsvis53iii $289.00 



6 MEGABYTE 
DISK SUBSYSTEM 




BSVIS1840 List Price: $1549.00 SALE: $1299.00 



LOWEST COST 
PRINTERS AVAILABLE 

ff 




Part No 



BSC0X80FT Parallel interface (21 lbs) $39900 $289.00 
BSC0X80FTSER Serial Interlace (21 lbs.) $39900 $289.00 
BSCOXAPLINTP Apple parallel interface w/cable $49.95 




30 CPS 
Parallel Interface 

SAVE 
$160.00.'.' 



'100A Dot Matrix Printer (11 lbs.) $389 00 $229.00 



NOW! 20% FASTER AT SAME PRICE! 

gemini 

120 CPS 
»§ DOT 
I MATRIX 
PRINTER 

List Price: $399.00 




ISGEM10X 80 Column' Printer 

SALE 
PRICE: 

(Shipping Weight 20 lbs.) 
BSGEM1S 132 Column' Printer. 100 CDS List Price Sfi49nn 

SALE 
PRICE: 

(Shipping Weight 26 lbs.) 

•Based on 1 characters per inch. 

SEPJAl INTERFACE CARD FOP. GEMINI 10 15 

BSGEMSERINT Serial Interface Module (Sh. wi 1 lb.) $85.09 



$319.00 

(Shipping Weight 20 lbs.) 
Column' Printer. 100 cos List Price' $049 nn 

$459.00 



WMULTICARD 

?w '" 1 MEMORY & I/O CARD 







64 K RAH 
to 256 K 

One RS232 Serial Port 
One Parallel Printer Port 
BSVIS0M665 



• Real Time Clock 
Calendar with 
Battery Backup 
(Shipping Weight 1 lb.) 
List Price: $595 00 



ANNIVERSARY SALE PRICE: 

$329.00 



> MAX I CARD 

PERSONAL COMPUTER RAM CARD 

POPULATED IN 64K, 256K, or 576K 




Runs at full speed with 
no wait states 
Parity can be disabled 
at User's option 
On board parity bit on 
each Byte 

Fully expanded, a full 
576 KB on one card 
One board fills entire 
primary RAM address 
space available 
Full Vista 120 Day 
Warranty 



64K $219.00 

BSVIS0S7664 List Price: $379.00 

SAVE $160.00!! 
256K $489.00 

BSVIS0576256 List Price: $789.00 

SAVE $320.00!! 
576K $849.00 

BSVIS0576576 List Price: $1 299.00 

SAVE $450.00!! 



* Available with 256K S 576K boards only (Sh. Wt 6 lbs.) 

(IBM is a trademark of International Business Machines) 



5 1 /*" FLOPPY DISKETTES 



UITRY 

MAGNETICS 



' Includes reinforcement ring 
■ 100% Surface tested 



1 Write protect with tabs 
Lifetime warranty! 



SINGLE SIDED 



40 TRACKS — 
DOOBLE DENSITY 

ORDERING INFORMATION 

BSULT51401 Soft Sector 
BSULT5M10 10 Sector 
BSULT5I418 16 Sector 



1 BOX 
OF 10: 

2 
BOXES: 

10 
BOXES: 



$ 25.00 
$ 40.00 
$180.00 



BSUIT52401 Soft sector, 40 track, 2 sided 
BSUIT524I0 10 sector, 40 track, 2 sided 
BSULTS2416 16 sector, 40 track, 2 sided 

1 BOX OF 10 2 BOXES 10 BOXES 

$35.00 $60.00 $280.00 



MONITORS 

MONOCHROME 




TAXAN 

Description List Price 



8STAXK6I2N 12" green (19 lbs,) $179.00 

BSTMKG12NDr 12" amber (19 lbs.) $179.00 

SANYO 



$129.00 
$129.00 



BSSY0DM81 I2CX 1 2" green (24 lbs ) 



$260.00 $159.00 



COLOR MONITORS 

TAXAN 



BSTMRGDI 12" med. res. RGB (29 lbs.) 
BSTAXRGR3 12" high res. RGB (29 lbs.) 



$399.00 
$699.00 



$328.95 
$499.87 



SANYO 



BSSY0VMC7013 13" NTSC w/sound (35 lbs) $65000 $349.00 

BSSY0DM6II3 13" RGB (35 lbs.) $795.00 $499.00 

BSSV0AVM255 25" RGB/NTSC $795.00 $699.00 

(25" Monitor shipped freight collect) 



HEWLETT-PACKARD 

QUALITY & PERFORMANCE 

AT OUR LOW PRICES!! 



SERIES 10 PROGRAMMABLE CALCULATORS 



Part No. 



Description 



List Price Our Price 



BS HP-10C Scientific 
BS HP-11C Adv scientific 
BS HP-12C Adv. financial 
BS HP-ISC Adv. sci. w/matrix 



$ 7000 $59.00 

$ 90.00 $79.00 

$120.00 $99.00 

$120.00 $99.00 



BS HP-1BC Digital 8, Computer science $120.00 $99.00 
(Shipping Weights on above calculators: 3 lbs each) 

HP-41C/ CV HANDHELD COMPUTER SYSTEM 

BSHP-41C 
BSHM1CV 



BS HP82I04A 
BS HP82153A 
BS HPS216IA 
BS NPS2162A 
BS HP82I63A 



Handheld computer 
Handheld computer 
w/5x the memory 
Card reader 
Optical Wand 
Cassette drive 
Thermal Printer 
Video Interface 



$195 00 $159.00 
$275 00 9819.00 

$195.00 $1 59.00 
$125.00$ 99.00 
$450 00 $349.00 
$450.00 $349.00 
$225.00 $1 79.00 



(Shipping Weights on above items: 5 lbs each) 



ENHANCEMENT MODULES: 



BS NP821B0A HP-IL module $125.00 $95.00 

BS HP82170A Quad RAM module $ 75.00 $59.00 

BS HP82I80A Extended functions/ $75.00 $59.00 

memory module 

BSNP821BIA Ext memory module $75 'J $59.00 

BS HP82I82A Time module $ 75.00 $59.00 
(Shipping Weights on above items: 1 lb. each) 

HP-75C PORTABLE COMPUTER 



DS HP-75C (Sh. Wt. 9 lbs.) 



$995.00 $795.00 



PRIORITYl 




(VJ 


PERSONAL 
COMPUTATION 


DEALER 



ELECTRONICS 



9161 Deering Ave,, Chatsworth.CA 91311 
ORDER TOLL FREE (800) 423-5922 - CA, AK, HI CALL (213) 709-51 1 1 

Terms. U S. VISA, MC, BAG, Check, Money Order, U.S Funds Only. CA residents adrJ6Y?% Sales Tax. MINIMUM PREPAID ORDER $15*1)0 Include MINIMUM SHAP- 
INGS HANDLING of $3.00 for the first 3 lbs. plus 40C for each additional pound Orders over 50 lbs. sent freight collect. Just in case, includeyour phone number. Prices 
subject to change without notice. We will do our best to maintain prices through July, 1 983. Many quantities are limited. Sorry, no rainchecks, no refunds or exchanges 
on sale merchandise. Credit Card orders will be charged appropriate freight. Sale prices for prepaid orders only. We are not responsible for typographical errors. 



RETAIL STORE PHONE NUMBERS: (Chotsworth:) C213) 709-5464 - (IRVINE:) (714) 660-141 

Circle 327 on Inquiry Card 



SIXTH ANNIVERSARY SALE! 

NOT JUST AN ORDINARY SALE! WE HAVE SLASHED PRICES TO THE BONE US OUR WAY OF THANKING 

YOU, OUR VALUED CUSTOMERS FOR 6 YEARS OF LOYALTY. WE'VE CONTINUOUSLY GROWN AND EXPANDED BY 

OFFERING YOU THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WITH THE BEST AFTER-SALE SUPPORT 



LEMON™ SOURS SURGES! 



NEW! 



The LEMON, LIME, ORANGE, and PEACH are solid 
state and EMI-RFI noise filters designed to protect all 
mini and micro computers, word processors, printers, 
disc drives, and other computer-controlled equipment 
that is plugged into an AC power line There may be 
nothing more terrifying than to lose all of your software 
or data files due to a high voltage spike or noise from an 
adjacent elevator, air conditioner, or any other high 
powered equipment being operated in the nearby area 
With a LEMON, LIME, ORANGE, or PEACH, you can be 
sure that the FRUITS of your computer labor will be 
protected from most voltage spikes and EMI-RFI 
interferences. 



SUPER DMM SALE! 

HITACHI 
Hitachi Denshi.Lld 

AUTO RANGING 
3 1 / 2 DIGIT LCD 

• Eight measurement functions 
with auto ranging • Data hold 
feature • Continuity beeper • 
Temperature measurements {ex- 
cept HITVR3550) • 5 to.1% 
accuracy • 10M input imped- 
ance • 250V overload protec- 
tion on all resistance functions 

• 11 00 VDC or 850 VAC over- 
load protection on volt scales 

List Price Our Price 



% JS. JJ4 » 



Part No. Description Sri Wt. 2 lbs 



BSHITVR3550 5% Autoranging DMM 
BSHITVR3525 25% with temp 
BSWTVR35I0 1% with temp 
BSHIT6703 Soft carrying case 



$12700 $105.00 

$157 00 $130.00 

$18700 $160.00 

S15.00 



IFLUKEI 



BSFLU8022B Handheld DMM 25% Accuracy 
BSFLU8021B Handheld DMM 5% Accuracy w/cond 
BSFLU8020B Handheld DMM 1% Accuracy 
BSFLU8024B Handheld DM M 1 % Accuracy, Pk & Hold 
(Shipping Weights on above items: 2 lbs. each) 



BSFLU8010A 

BSFLU8010AOI 

BSFUI8012A 

BSFUI80I2A01 

BSFLUB060A 

BSFLU8062A 

BSFLUB050A 

BSFLU80S0A01 

BSFLUC90* 



tOATru RMS Bench DMM (6 lbs.) 

FLU8010A w/battery (6 lbs.) 

Low Ohms Tru-RMS Bench (6 lbs) 

FLU8012A w/battery (6 lbs.) 

4'/zDigit DMM w/Frequency Counter (2 lbs 

4 5 digit Handheld DMM (2 lbs) 

45 digit Tru-RMS Bench DMM (6 lbs.) 

FLU8050A w/battery (6 lbs) 

Soft carrying case ISI0, 



KEITH LEY 



$144.00 
$159.00 
$194.00 
$249.00 

$259.00 
$299.00 
$339.00 
$379.00 
$349.00 
$279.00 
$389.00 
$439.00 
00| 10 



BSKTH130 3 5 digit 5% Accuracy handheld DMM $129.00 

BSKTH131 3 5 digit 25% Accuracy handheld DMM $139.00 

0SKTH128 3.5 digit handheld DMM w/beeper $139.00 

BSKTH132C 3 5diqithandheldDMMw/thermomeler(Centl $199.00 

BSKTH132F 3 5 digit handheld DMM w/thermometer (Far) $209.00 

BSKTH135 4'/; digit handheld DMM $239.00 

(Shipping Weights for above items: 2 lbs each) 

BSKTH169 35 digit bench LCD DMM $189.00 

B8KTH17B 4.5 digit bench LCD DMM $299.00 

BSKTH179A 4 5 digit bench LED DMM $359.00 

BSKTH19I1910 5 5 digit bench DMM $870.00 

BSKTHI9I1920 55 digit bench true RMS $940.00 

(Shipping Weights tor above items: 6 lbs each) 

BSKTH1304* Soft carrying case ($10.00) 10 

BUY A SOFT CARRYING CASE FOR 1$ 

•With the purchase ol any Fluke or Keithly Handheld DMM! 







AC SURGE PROTECTORS 



Part No. Description 

BSEPDLEMON 6 outlet wall mount 
BSEPDLIME 6 outlet 4%" cord 
w/power switch 

"eicht 4 Ids 



List Price Our Price 

$59.95 , 
89.50 $69.95 



EMI-RFI FILTERED AC SURGE PROTECTOR 

BSEPDORANEE 6 outlet 414" cord $139.95 $104.95 ' 



BSEPDORANEE 6 outlet 4'/' cord 
w/power switch 
BSEPDPEACH 6 outlet wall mount 



$97 50 $ 74.95 



30 MHz DUAL TRACE 
DELAYED SWEEP 



ffKPKCISION 




BSBKP1530 (Shipping Weight 20 lbs.) 



List Price $875 00 



ANNIVERSARY 
SALE PRICE: 



$599.00 



3V 2 DIGIT LCD DMM 
5 FUNCTION 



BfTpRECISION 



• 3'/2 Digit 

• 5 functions 
(ACV, DCV, ACA, 
DCA, Resistance) 

• Auto Polarity 

• Auto Zero 

• Overload Protected 

• Complete with test 
leads and 
carrying case 

BSBKPZ805 (Shipping Weig 

ANNIVERSARY 
SALE PRICE: 




TERMINALS 



Extra Memory Pages 



8SPDBTLW252P- $729.00 

•TeleVideo 925 w/free 2nd page 

memory kit, a $95 00 value' 
BSPDBTLW504r" $929.00 
TeleVideo 950 w/free 2nd, 3rd 8. 
4th page memory kiLS285 00 value 
BSTLN10* $558.95 

(Shining Weight 37 lbs.) 



©TeleVideo 

DEST DUYS! 



LIBERTY ELECTRONICS 



Description 



Ust Price Our Price 



Freedom 50 (Sh. Wt. 30 lbs.) $599.00 $474.00 



ADDS 



BSAODt/WPR Viewpoint 3A+ (30 lbs.) 



$695.00$575.00 



VISUAL TECHNOLOGY 



BSHSL50GN Visual 50 P31 Green Screen (35 lbs ) 
BSVSL50BW Visual 50 Non-Glare B&W (35 lbs 
BSVSL3306N Green 12" CRT 
BSVSL300I4BN Green 14" CRT 



$770.00 $658.00 

i $695.00 $625.00 

$1200.00 $895.00 

$1250 00 $949.00 



mUMSE 



U.S. ROBOTICS 



Part No. 



Description 



Ust Price SALE PRICE 



BSUSRADIAL212A 1200 baud Auto Orig/Answer $599 00 $495.00 

RSUSRPASSWORO 1200 baud Auto Orig/Answer $449.00 $425.00 

BSUSRTELPAC8 Password Comm. Software 8" CP/M $ 79.00 

BSUSRTELPAC5A Password Comm. Software 6V Apple $ 79.00 

BSUSRMLNK300 Micro Link 300 Baud $179.00 1159.00 

BSUSRMLNK1 200 Micro Link 1200 Baud $449.00 1:369.00 

BSUSBALNK300 Auto Link 300 Baud $219.00 1175.00 

BSUSRALNK1200 Auto Link 1 200 Baud $499 00 $399.00 

(Shipping Weights on above items 4 lbs each) 

SEE PAGE 194 OF THIS MONTH'S BYTE 

FOR MORE INFORMATION 



D.C HAYES 



BSDCH0400P 
BSDCH0200P 
BSDCH0300P 
BSDCH0I00P 
BSDCHOO00P 



1200 Baud Smartmodem 
300 Baud Smartmodem 
Chronograph 
MicroModem 100 
MicroModem II 



$695.00 $514.95 

$27900 $229.00 

$249 00 $199.00 

$399.00 $349.00 

$37900 $299.00 



RIXON 




1200 BAUD 
AUTO DIAL 
DIRECT CONNECT MODEMS WITH 10 NUMBER MEMORY 

BSRIXR212A 1200 Baud Stand Alone unit $495.00 $475.00 
BSRIXPC212A 1200IBMPC™modem(2lbs.)$495.00 $475.00 
BSRIXPCC0M1 IBM PC " Modem Software (1 lb.) $ 89.00 

BSPDBRIXIBM IBM Modems, Software Toqether (3 lbs I $539.00 
SEE PAGE 445 OF THIS MONTH'S BYTE 
FOR MORE INFORMATION 

MURA DIRECT CONNECT MODEM 
$79.00 

- 300 BAUD 
MUBA MM- 1 00 

• - 300 Baud 

• RS232C interface 

• Full duplex 

• Carrier detect indicator 

• Bell 103 compatible 

• Low voltage 

• Originate/ Answer switch selectable 




Ust Price Our Price 



BSMURMMIOO - 300 baud modem (2 lbs.) $99.95 $79.00 
BSCNDR2328F RS232 cable $19.95 



RETAIL STORE PHONE NUMBERS: (Chatsworth:) (213) 709-5464 - (IRVINE:) (714) 660-1411 

Circle ;327 on Inquiry Card 



PRIORITY ONE IS NUMBER 1! 



PRIORITY ONE IS YOUR PROTOTYPING SUPER-MARKET 



page PLUGBOARDS 




S-100 PLUGBOARDS 



PART NO. 



DESCRIPTION 



1-4 



5-9 



10-24 



BSPGBPI001 S -100 Bare Board $15.95 $13.95 $11.95 

BSP6BPI002 s-100 Horizontal Busses $22.95 $19.95 $17.95 

BSPGBPI003 S-100 Vertical Busses $22.95 $19.95 $17.95 

0SPGBP1004 S-100 Pads Per Hole $23.95 $20.95 $18.95 

APPLE PLUGBOARDS 



BSP6BP500I Apple bare board 
8SPGBP5002 Apple horizontal busses 
BSPGBP5004 Apple pads per hole 



$15.95 $13.95 $11.95 
$22.95 $19.95 $18.95 
$23.95 $20.95 $18.95 

UNIVERSAL PLUGBOARDS 

4 5" x 6 5" or 9.6" edge connector as indicated lor 3". 4". 6". 9" dips. 
Accommodates 1" IDC connectors at top of board 



BSPG8P44II 4 5"x6" 22/44 156" bare board 
BSPGBP44T3 4 5"x6" 22/44 156" 2 holes per 

pad vertical busses 
BSPGBP44I4 4 5"»6" 22/44 156" pad per hole 
BSPGBP442I 4 5"x9 6" 22/44 156" bareboard 
BSPGBP4423 1 5"«9 6" 22/44 156" 2 holes 

per pad vertical busses 
BSPGBP4424 4 5"9 6" 22/44 156" pad per hole $15,115 $14.50 $13.50 
BSPGBP58II 4 5"x6" 28/56 1 25 STD barebrd $11.85 $10.95 $9.95 
BSPGBP5613 4 5"x6" 28/56 125 ST0 2 holes $15.95 $14.50 $13.50 

per pad vertical busses 
BSPGBP5614 4 5"x6"28'56 1 25 STD pd/hole 
BSP6BP72II 4 5"x6" 36/72 1" bareboard 
BSPGBP7213 4 5"x6" 36/72 1" 2 holes per 

pad vertical busses 
BSPBBP7214 4 5"x6" 36/72 1" pad per hole 
BSPGBP722I 4 5"x9 6" 36/72 1" bareboard 
BSPGBP7223 A 5"x96" 36/72 1" 2 holes per 

pad vertical busses 
BSPBBP7224 4 5"x9 6" 36/72 1" pad per hole 

VECTOR IDM PC PLUGBOARDS 

4.2" x 13325" FR4 drilled J plated holes 31/62 contacts on .1 centers 
complete with card guide and mounting bracket that accepts "D" 
connectors 



$ 9 85 S 8.95 S 7.95 

$13.95 $12.50 $11.50 

$14.95 $13.50 $12.50 

$10.95 $ 9.95 $ 8.95 

$14.95 $13.50 $12.50 



$18.95 $15.50 $14.50 

S 9.85 $ 8.05 $ 7.95 

$13.95 812.50 $11.50 

$14.95 $13.50 $12.50 

SI 0.95 $ 9.95 $ 8.95 

$14.95 $13.50 $12.50 

$15.95 $14.50 $1350 



PART NO 



DESCRIPTION 



1-5 



6-24 25+ 



BSVCT46I3 

BSVCT4613-I 
BSVCT4GI3-2 



IBM 3 holes per pad with 
boriz busses f/soldering 
44 16 pin dip capacity 
IBM bare board 84 16 
pin dips 

IBM horizontal busses for 
wire wrap 55 16 pin dip 



$39.00 $35.10 $31.20 

$26.95 $24.26 $21.56 
$36.95 $33.26 $29.56 



capacity 

IDC HEADER CONNECTORS 




RIGHT ANGLE S0LOERTAIL G0L0 HEADER 

I" Spacing Mounts on PC Board & Mates with IDC Socket aTiove 

NO. BE PRICE 

Pitt No PINS 1-9 10-24 25-91 100-249 250-999 



BSIDCRAH10ST 5/10 

BSIDCRAH20ST 10/20 

BSIDCRAH26ST 13/26 

BSI0CRAH34ST 17/34 

BSIDCRAH40ST 20/40 



1.20 
1.90 
2.25 
2.95 

3.60 



1.10 
1.60 
2.00 
2.60 
3.00 



1.00 

1.20 
1.55 
2.05 
2.40 



.80 
1.00 
1.25 
1.70 
2.00 



.65 

85 

1.05 

1.45 

1.70 



BSI0CRAH50ST 25/50 4.30 



3.00 2.50 2.10 



RIGHT ANGLE WIRE WRAP GOLD HEADER 



BSIDCRAH10WW 5/10 

BSI0CRAH20WW 10/20 

BSI0CRAN26WW 13/26 

BSI0CRAH34WW 17/34 

BSIDCRAH40WW 20/40 

BSIDCRAH50WW 25/50 



2.60 
4.00 
5.00 
5.95 
7.00 
7.95 



2.35 2.10 

3.50 2.75 

4.30 3.50 

500 4.15 

(.00 4.M 

6.50 5.90 



1.80 
2.20 
2.90 
3.20 

4,00 
5.00 



1.50 
1.80 
2.40 
2.70 
3.40 
4.00 



Ji 



call for straight headers not listed 
Texas Instruments 

Qty TIN 



16 PIN 
TIN DIP 
SOLDERTAIL 
SOCKETS 




BSTIS1BLP 



90 $ 8.00 

: ISh Wt. 4 oz| 

iooo $ 60.00 

ISh Wt 4 lbs ) 

4500 $225.00 

(Sh Wt 15 lbs.) 



RS202 and "D" SUD- MINIATURE 
CONNECTORS 




P=Plug, Male Type — S=Socket, Female Type 



No. 01 



Part No. 



PRICE 
10-24 25-99 



100- 
249 



250- 
999 



1000+ 



BSCND0E9P 9 

BSCNBDE9S 9 

BSCNDDA15P 15 

BSCN0DA15S 15 

BSCNDDB25P 25 

BSCNDDB25S 25 

BSCNDDC37P 37 

BSCN0DC37S 37 

BSCNB0050P 50 

BSCNDDD50S 50 



$2.00 
$2.75 
$2.60 
$3.40 
$2.75 
$4.00 
$4.50 
$8.00 
$5.95 
$7.95 



$1.80 
$2.40 
$2.30 
$3.00 
$2.50 
$3.50 
$4.00 
$5.40 
$5.35 
$7.20 



$1.45 $1.35 

$2.05 $1.85 

$2.00 $1.80 

$2.70 $2.50 

$2.25 $1.95 

$3.25 $3.00 

$3.60 $3.30 

$4.80 $4.30 

$4.75 $4.25 

$6.50 $6.00 



$1.25 
$1.75 
$1.70 
$2.30 
$1.60 
$2.60 
$3.05 
$4.00 



$1.05 
$1.60 
$1.55 
$2.15 
$1.35 
$2.25 
$2.80 
$3.70 



$3.95 $3.00 
$5.75 $5.50 



"D" CONNECTOR HOODS 




2 pc. Grey - Style A 2 pc Black - Style B 1 pc. Grey - Style C 

Pins/ TwT 25? 

Pert No. Style 1-9 10-24 25-99 249 999 10004- 

$1.50 $1.25 $1.10 $1.00 $ .90 $ .80 

$1.50 $1.25 $1.10 $1.00 $ .90 $ .80 



BSCNBDE9C 
BSCNDDA15C 
BSCNDP25H 
BSCN00B51226 



9A 
15A 
25A 

25B 



$1.50 $1.25 $1.10 $1.00 $ .90 $ .80 

$1.75 $1.50 $1.35 $1.20 $1.10 $ .95 

BSCNDDB5I212 25C $1.65 $1.40 $1.25 $1.15 $1.05 $ .90 

BSCND0C37C 37A $1.75 $1.50 $1.35 $1.20 $1.10 $ .95 

BSCNBD050C 50A $2.00 $1.75 $1.50 $1.30 $1.15 $1.00 

BSCNDD20416 Hrdware $1.00 $ .80 $ .70 $ .00 $ .50 $ .40 
set 2/Pr 

CEKTRONICS/EPSON PRINTER CONNECTORS 

BSCND5730360 Solder $9.00 $7.50 $6.00 $5.25 $4.50 
BSIDC5730360 IDC $9.95 $9.00 $8.00 $7.00 $8.00 

IDC INSULATION DISPLACEMENT 
D-SUDMINIATURE CONNECTORS 

P=Ptug, Male Type — S=Socket Female Type — C=Cover Hood 
BSIDCDB25P 25 6.00 5.40 4.80 4.00 3.00 

BSI0C0B25S 25 6.60 6.00 5.20 4.50 3.50 

BSI0CDB25C 25 1.60 1.50 1.35 1.20 1.10 

PLEASE CALL FOB IOC "0" CONNECTORS NOT LISTED 



IDC SOCKET CONNECTORS 




PART NO 



PRICE 
10-24 25-99 100-249 250-999 



BSI0CI0SKT 5/10 

BSIDC20SKT 10/20 

BSI0C26SKT 13/26 

BSI0C34SKT 17/34 



1.90 

2.75 
3.50 
4.50 



BSIDC40SKT 20/40 5.40 
BSIDC50SKT 25/50 6.50 



1.70 
2.50 
3.20 
4.20 
5.00 
6.00 



1.50 
1.85 
2.40 
3.10 
3.85 
4.00 



1.25 

1.60 
2.00 
2.60 
3.00 



1.00 
1.30 
1.60 
2.20 
2.60 
3.20 



IDC PLUG CONNECTORS 




1 " Spacing presses onto cable and mates with Socket Conectors above 



BSI0C682OI0 10/20 

BSI0C882616 13/26 

BSIDC683418 17/34 

BSIDC6B4810 20/40 

BSIOC685010 25/50 



5.50 
6.25 
7.00 
7.50 
8.50 



5.20 
5.65 
6.25 
6.75 
7.50 



4.80 
5.00 
5.70 
6.00 
6.50 



CALL FOR PROTOTYPING 
SUPPLIES NOT LISTED 



GOLD/TIN 3 LEVEL WIRE WRAP SOCKETS 




GOLD PLATED CONTACTS 

SELECTIVE PLATED 
PINS THAT WILL SAVE 
YOU MONEY BY 
HAVING GOLD ONLY 
WHERE IT COUNTS! 
TIN 

PLATED 
TAILS 



PRICE 
STANDARD 10-24 100-249 

PINS PCME. EACH 25-99 250-999 



PART NO. 



BSHRS08TWW 
BSRNSI4TWW 
BSRNSI6TWW 
BSRNS18TWW 
BSRNS20TWW 
BSRNS22TWW 
BSRNS24TWW 
BSRNS28TWW 
BSRNS40TWW 



14 
16 
18 
20 
22 
24 
28 
40 



52 
30 
26 
23 
21 
19 
17 
15 
10 



.85 
.75 
.90 
1.10 
1.25 
1.25 
1.50 
2.1 



N/A 
.55 
.65 
.79 
.95 



.45 
.50 

.52 
.75 
.91 



1.15 1.05 

1.15 1.0S 

1.45 1.35 

1.80 1.60 



.41 

.47 

.51 

.70 

.87 

.94 

.96 
1.25 1.15 
1.40 



.37 
.44 

.46 
.65 
.82 
.89 



-MINIMUM ORDER $1.00 per line item. To receive quantity prices beyond 
1st Column you must order EXACT multiples of STANDARD PACKAGES 




ICU SERIES 

SOLDERTAIL 

LOW PROFILE 

D.I.P. SOCKETS 



STANDARD 10-49 108-499 1.01 

PINS PKGEEACH 50-99 500-999 



BSRNS08LP 



52 .25 N/A 



BSRNS14LP 14 30 .25 



BSRNS16LP 
BSRNSItLP 
BSRNS20LP 
BSRNS22LP 
0SRNS24LP 
BSRNS28LP 



16 26 .26 

18 23 .30 

20 21 .30 

22 19 .35 

24 1 7 .40 

28 15 .45 



20 
25 
.25 
.30 
.35 
40 



.18 
.22 
.23 
.25 
.30 
.35 
.42 



16 
18 
.20 
.22 
24 
28 
.40 



.13 
.15 
.17 
.19 
20 
.24 
.35 



.12 

.13 

.145 

.17 

.18 

.21 

.31 



BSRNS40LP 40 10 .50 

"MINIMUM ORDER $1 00 per line item To receive quantity prices beyond 
1st column you must order EXACT multiples of STANDARD PACKAGES 

IDC EDGECARD CONNECTORS 




NO. OF 
PART NO. PINS 



1-0 



PRICE 
10-24 25-09 100-249 250-999 



BSI0C10CE 5/10 

BSI0C20CE 10/20 

BSIDC20CE 13/26 

BSIDC34CE 1 7/34 

BSI0C40CE 20/40 

BSIDC50CE 25/50 



3.95 
4.35 
5.00 
6.00 

6 80 
7.25 



3.55 
4.00 
4.25 
5.40 
6.20 
6.00 



3.00 
3.30 
3.50 

4.50 
5.30 
5.90 



2.50 
2.50 
2.70 
3.50 
4.20 
4.90 



2.00 
2.10 
2.30 
2.90 
3.40 
3.90 



RJDDON CABLE 

COLOR C00E0 LAMINATED CABLE FOR INSULATION 
DISPLACEMENT 20 GAUGE. 7 STRAND 



PART NO. 



ND. OF 
CONDUCTORS 



PRICE PER SPOOL 
10 Ft. 200 Ft* 



BSI0C10CC* 
BSIDC14CC* 
BSiDCIOCC* 
BSIDC20CC* 
BSIDC25CC* 
BSIDC26CC* 
BSIDC34CC* 
BSIDC40CC* 
BSI0C50CC* 



10 
14 
16 
20 
25 
26 
34 
40 
50 



$ 3.00 

4.75 
S.50 
7.00 
8.50 
8.50 
11.00 
13.00 
16.00 



$ 60.00 
00.00 
80.00 
120.00 
150.00 
150.00 
195.00 
230.00 
280.00 



GRAY LAMINATED CABLE FOR INSULATION 
28 Gauge 7 Strand 



DISPLACEMENT 



PRIORITYL 




1ELECTRONICS 



9161 Deerrng Aua,Chatsworth,CA91311 
ORDER TOLL FREE (800) 423-5922 - CA, AK, HI CALL (21 0) 709-51 1 1 

Terms. U S VISA, MC. BAC, Check, Money 0r3er. U.S. Funds Only. CA residents add 6'/?% Sales Tax. MINIMUM PREPAI0 OflDL-fl$1?O0 Include MINIMUM SHIP 
ING S HANDLING of $3 00 for the first 3 lbs plus 40« for each additional pound. Orders over 50 lbs. sent freight collect. Just incase, include your phone number. Prices 
subject to change without notice We will do our best to maintain prices through July, 1 983 Many quantities are limited Sorry, no ramchecks. no refunds or exchanges 
on sale merchandise Credit Card orders will be charged appropriate freight. Sale prices tor prepaid orders only We are not responsible tor typographical errors. 



RETAIL STORE PHONE NUMBERS: (Chcrtsworth:) (210) 709-5464 - (IRVINE:) (714) 660-1411 

' Circled on Inquiry Card 



64K DYNAMIC 
200 NS 



2KX8 STATIC 
200 NS 



STATIC RAMS 



Z-80 

2.5 Mhz 



8000 



6800 



74LS00 



2101 

5101 

2102-1 

2102L-4 

2102L-2 

2111 

2112 

2114 

2114-25 

2114L-4 

2114L-3 

2114L-2 

2147 

TMS4044-4 

TMS4044-3 

TMS4044-2 

MK4118 

TMM2016-200 

TMM2016-150 

TMM2016-100 

HM6116-4 

HM6116-3 

HM6116-2 

HM6116LP-4 

HM6116LP-3 

HM6116LP-2 

Z-6132 



256x4 
256x4 
1024 x 1 
1024 x 1 
1024 x 1 
256x4 
256x4 
1024x4 
1024 x 4 
1024 x4 
1024 x 4 
1024x4 
4096 X 1 
4096 x 1 
4096 x 1 
4096 x 1 
1024 x 8 
2048 x 8 
2048 x 8 
2048 x 8 
2048 x 8 
2048 x 8 
2048 x 8 
2048 x 8 
2048 x 8 
2048 x 8 
4096 x 8 



(450ns) 
(450ns) 
(450ns) 
(450ns) 
(250ns) 
(450ns) 
(450ns) 
(450ns) 
(250ns) 
(450ns) 
(300ns) 
(200ns) 
(55ns) 
(450ns) 
(300ns) 
(200ns) 
(250ns) 
(200ns) 
(150ns) 
(100ns) 
(200ns) 
(150ns) 
(120ns) 
(200ns) 
(150ns) 
(120ns) 
(300ns) 



(cmos) 



(LP) 
(LP) 



(LP) 
(LP) 
(LP) 



(cmos) 

(cmos) 

(cmos) 

(cmos)(LP) 

(cmos)(LP) 

(cmos)(LP) 

(Qslat) 



1.95 ■ 

3.95 ■ 

.89 1 


Z80-CPU 
Z80-CTC 

Z80-DART 1 


.99 1 


Z80-DMA 


1.49 1 

2.49 ■ 

2.99 ■ 

8/9.95 ■ 

8/10.95 ■ 

8/12.95 ■ 


Z80-PIO 

Z80-SIO/0 1 
Z80-SIO/1 1 
Z80 SIO/2 1 
Z80-SIO/9 1 

4.0 Mhz 


8/13.45 B 
8/13.95 ■ 


Z80A-CPU 
Z80A-CTC 




Z80A-DART 




Z80A DMA 




Z80A-PIO 


9.95 ■ 
4.15 ■ 


Z80A-SIO/0 1 
Z80A-SIO/1 1 
Z80A-SIO/2 1 


6.15 ■ 
4.75 ■■ 


Z80A-SIO/9 1 

6.0 Mhz 


4.95 ■ 


Z80B-CPU 1 


8.95 ■ 


Z80B-CTC 1 


5.95 ■ 


Z80B-PIO 1 


6.95 ■ 


Z80B-DART 1 


10.95 ■ 
34.95 ■ 


ZILOG 



LP = Low Power 



Qstat Quasi-Static 



DYNAMIC RAMS 



TMS4027 

UPD411 

MM5280 

MK4108 

MM5298 

4116-300 

4116-250 

4116-200 

4116-150 

4116-120 

2118 

4164-200 

4164-150 



r 



4096 X 
4096 X 
4096 x 
8192 x 
8192 x 
16384 x 
16384 x 
16384 X 
16384 x 
16384 X 
16384 x 
65536 X 
65536 x 

5V = si 



1 (250ns) 

1 (300ns) 

1 (300ns) 

1 (200ns) 

1 (250ns) 

1 (300ns) 

1 (250ns) 

1 (200ns) 

1 (150ns) 

1 (120ns) 

1 (150ns) (5v) 

1 (200ns) (5v) 

1 (150ns) (5v) 

ngle 5 volt supply 



1.99 ; 

3.00 

3.00 

1.95 

1.85 I 

8/11.75 

8/11.95 

8/12.95 

8/14.95 

8/29.95 

4.95 

5-.95 

6.95 



EPROMS 



1702 

2708 

2758 

2716 

2716-1 

TMS2516 

TMS2716 

TMS2532 

2732 

2732-250 

2732-200 

2764 

2764-250 

2764-200 

TMS2564 

MC68764 

27128 



256x6 
1024x8 
1024x8 
2048 x 8 
2048 x 8 
2048 x 8 
2048 x 8 
4096 x 8 
4096 x 8 
4096 x 8 
4096 x 8 
8192 x 8 
8192 x 8 
8192 x 8 
8192 X 8 
8192x8 
16384x8 



(1us) 
(450ns) 
(450ns) (5v) 
(450ns) (5v) 
(350ns) (5v) 
(450ns) (5v) 
(450ns) 
(450ns) (5v) 
(450ns) (5v) 
(250ns) (5v) 
(200ns) (5v) 
(450ns) (5v) 
(250ns) (5v) 
(200ns) (5v) 
(450ns) (5v) 
(450ns) (5v)(24 pin) 
Call 



4.50 

3.95 

5.95 

3.95 

5.95 

5.50 

7.95 

5.95 

4.95 

8.95 

11.95 

9.95 

14.95 

24.95 

17.95 

39.95 | 

Call 



► 



5v - Single 5 Volt Supply 



EPROM ERASERS 



PE-14 
PE-14T 
PE-24T 
PL-265T 
PR-125T 
i PR-320 



Capacity 

Chip 

6 

6 

9 
20 
16 
32 



Intensity 

(uW/Cm') 

5,200 
5,200 
6,700 
6,700 
15,000 
15,000 



83.00 
119.00 
175.00 
255.00 
349.00 
595.00, 



3.95 I 
4.49 
10.95 I 
14.95 I 
4.49 
16.95 
16 95 
16.95 
16.95 

4.95 
4.95 
11.95 I 
16.95 
4.95 
16.95 
16.95 
16.95 
16.95 

11.95 
13.95 
13.95 
19.95 



Z6132 34.95 [ 

LZ8671 39.95J 

CRYSTALS 



32.768 khz 

1.0 mhz 

1.8432 

2.0 

2.097152 

2.4576 

3.2768 

3.579535 

4.0 

5.0 

5.0688 

5.185 

5.7143 

6.0 

6.144 

6.5536 

8.0 
10.0 

10.738635 
14.31818 
15.0 
16.0 
17.430 
18.0 
18.432 
20.0 
22.1184 
.32.0 



1.95 
4.95 
4.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 I 



CRT 
CONTROLLERS I 

14.95 
19.95 
15.95 I 
11.95 
6.95 
24.95 | 
29.95 [ 
99.95 
39.95 
49.95 
39.95 
49.95 , 



6845 
68B45 
HD46505SP 
6847 
MC1372 
68047 
8275 
7220 

CRT5027 
CRT5037 
TMS9918A 
. DP8350 



KEYBOARD 
CHIPS 

AY5-2376 11.95 

AY5-3600 11.95 

.AY5-3600PRO 11.95J 



8035 

8039 

INS-8060 

INS-8073 

8080 

8085 

8085A-2 

8086 

8087 

8088 

8089 

8155 

8155-2 

8156 

8185 

8185-2 

8741 

8748 

8755 



5.95 

6.95 

17.95 

24.95 

3.95 

5.95 

11.95 

29.95 

CALL 

39.95 

89.95 

6.95 

7.95 

6.95 

29.95 

39.95 

39.95 

24.95 

24.95 . 



8200 



8202 


24.95 


8203 


39.95 


8205 


3.50 


8212 


1.80 


8214 


3.85 


8216 


1.75 


8224 


2.25 


8226 


1.80 


8228 


3.49 


8237 


19.95 


8237-5 


21.95 


8238 


4.49 


8243 


4.45 


8250 


10.95 


8251 


4.49 


8253 


6.95 


8253-5 


7.95 


8255 


4.49 


8255-5 


5.25 


8257 


7.95 


8257-5 


8.95 


8259 


6.90 


8259-5 


7.50 


8271 


39.95 


8272 


39.95 


8275 


29.95 


8279 


8.95 


8279-5 


10.00 


8282 


6.50 


8283 


6.50 


8284 


5.50 


8286 


6.50 


8287 


6.50 


8288 


25.00 


8289 


49.95 



DISC 
CONTROLLERS 



1771 

1791 

1793 

1795 

1797 
, 2791 

2793 

2795 

2797 

6843 

8272 
| UPD765 

MB8876 

MB8877 

1691 
k2143 



16.95 
24.95 
26.95 
49.95 
49.95 
54.95 
54.95 
59.95 
59.95 
34.95 
39.95 
39.95 
29.95 
34.95 
17.95 
18.95 . 



68000 

6800 

6802 

6808 

6809E 

6809 

6810 

6820 

6821 

6828 

6840 

6843 

6844 

6845 

6847 

6850 

6852 

6860 

6862 

6875 

6880 

6883 

68047 

68488 

6800 
68B00 
68B02 
68B09E 
68B09 
68B10 
68B21 
68B45 
68B50 



59.95 

3.95 

7.95 

13.90 

19.95 

11.95 

2.95 

4.35 

3.25 

14.95 

12.95 

34.95 

25.95 

14.95 

11.95 

3.25 

5.75 

9.95 

11.95 

6.95 

2.25 

22.95 

24.95 

19.95 

1MHZ 

10.95 

22.25 

29.95 

29.95 

6.95 

6.95 

19.95 

5.95 



68B00 2 MHZ 



6500 



6502 
6504 
6505 
6507 
6520 
6522 
6532 
6545 
6551 

6502A 
6522A 
6532A 
6545A 
6551A 



4.95 
6.95 
8.95 
9.95 
4.35 
7.95 
9.95 
22.50 
11.85 

6.95 

9.95 

11.95 

27.95 

11.95 



UARTS 



AY3-1014 

AY5-1013 

AY3-1015 

PT1472 

TR1602 

2350 

2651 

TMS6011 

IM6402 

IM6403 

INS8250 

GENERATORS 
BIT-RATE 



6.95 
3.95 
6.95 
9.95 
3.95 
9.95 
8.95 
5.95 
7.95 
8.95 
10.95 



MC14411 

BR1941 

4702 

COM5016 

COM8116 

MM5307 



11.95 
11.95 
12.95 
16.95 
10.95 
10.95 



[CONNECTORS 1 

RS232 MALE 2.50 

RS232 FEMALE 3.25 

I RS232 HOOD 1.25 

IS-100ST 3.95 i 



FUNCTION 

MC4024 3.95 

LM566 1.49 

XR2206 3.75 

,8038 3.95 i 



74LS00 
74LS01 
74LS02 
74LS03 
74LS04 
74LS05 
74LS08 
74LS09 
74LS10 
74LS11 
74LS12 
74LS13 
74LS14 
74LS15 
74LS20 
74LS21 
74LS22 
74LS26 
74LS27 
74LS26 
74LS30 
74LS32 
74LS33 
74LS37 
74LS38 
74LS40 
74LS42 
74LS47 
74LS48 
74LS49 
74LS51 
74LS54 
74LS55 
74LS63 
74LS73 
74LS74 
74LS75 
74LS76 
74LS78 
74LS83 
74LSB5 
74LS86 
74LS90 
74LS91 
74LS92 
74LS93 
74LS95 
74LS96 
74LS107 
74LS109 
74LS112 
74LS113 
74LS114 
74LS122 
74LS123 
74LS124 
74LS125 
74LS126 
74LS132 
74LS133 
74LS136 
74LS137 
74LS138 
74LS139 
74LS145 
74LS147 
74LS148 
74LS151 
74LS153 
74LS154 
74LS155 
74LS156 
74LS157 
74LS158 
74LS160 
74LS161 
74LS162 
74LS163 
74LS164 
74LS165 
74LS166 
74LS168 
74LS169 
k 74LS170 



.24 
.25 
.25 
.25 
.24 
.25 
.28 
.29 
.25 
.35 
.35 
.45 
.59 
.35 
.25 
.29 
.25 
.29 
.29 
.35 
.25 
.29 
.55 
.35 
.35 
.25 
.49 
.75 
.75 
.75 
.25 
.29 
.29 
1.25 
.39 
.35 
.39 
.39 
.49 
.60 
.69 
.39 
.55 
.89 
.55 
.55 
.75 
.89 
.39 
.39 
.39 
39 
.39 
.45 
.79 
2.90 
.49 
.49 
.59 
.59 
.39 
.99 
.55 
.55 
1.20 
2.49 
1.35 
.55 
.55 
1.90 
.69 
.69 
.65 
.59 
.69 
.65 
.69 
.65 
.69 
.95 
1.95 
1.75 
1.75 
1.49 



74LS173 

74LS174 

74LS175 

74LS181 

74LS189 

74LS190 

74LS191 

74LS192 

74LS193 

74LS194 

74LS195 

74LS196 

74LS197 

74LS221 

74LS240 

74LS241 

74LS242 

74LS243 

74LS244 

74LS245 

74LS247 

74LS248 

74LS249 

74LS251 

74LS253 

74LS257 

74LS258 

74LS259 

74LS260 

74LS266 

74LS273 

74LS275 

74LS279 

74LS280 

74LS283 

74LS290 

74LS293 

74LS295 

74LS298 

74LS299 

74LS323 

74LS324 

74LS352 

74LS353 

74LS363 

74LS364 

74LS365 

74LS366 

74LS367 

74LS368 

74LS373 

74LS374 

74LS377 

74LS378 

74LS379 

74LS385 

74LS386 

74LS390 

74LS393 

74LS395 

74LS399 

74LS424 

74LS447 

74LS490 

74LS624 

74LS640 

74LS645 

74LS668 

74LS669 

74LS670 

74LS674 

74LS682 

74LS683 

74LS684 

74LS685 

74LS688 

74LS689 

74LS783 

81LS95 

81LS96 

81LS97 

81LS96 

25LS2521 

25LS2569 



.69 

.55 

.55 

2.15 

8.95 

.89 

.89 

.79 

.79 

.69 

.69 

.79 

.79 

.89 

.95 

.99 

.99 

.99 

1.29 

1.49 

.75 

.99 

.99 

.59 

.59 

.59 

.59 

2.75 

.59 

.55 

1.49 

3.35 

.49 

1.98 

.69 

.89 

.89 

.99 

.89 

1.75 

3,50 

1.75 

1.29 

1.29 

1.35 

1.95 

.49 

.49 

.45 

.45 

1.39 

1.39 

1.39 

1.18 

1.35 

1.90 

.45 

1.19 

1.19 

1.19 

1.49 

2.95 

.37 

1.95 

3.99 

2.20 

2.20 

1.69 

1.89 

1.49 

9.65 

3.20 

3.20 

3.20 

3.20 

2.40 

3.20 

24.95 

1.49 

1.49 

1.49 

1.49 

2.80 

4.25 . 



E 



JDR Microdevices 

1224 S. Bascom Ave. • San Jose, CA 95128 
(408) 995-5430 • Telex 171-110 



19B3 JDR MICRODEVICES, INC. 



VISIT OUR RETAIL STORE 

HOURS: M-W-F, 9-5 T-Th., 9-9 Sat. 11-3 

PLEASE USE YOUR CUSTOMER NUMBER WHEN ORDERING 
TERMS: For shipping Include $2 lor UPS Ground or $3 lor UPS Blue 
Label Air. items over 5 pounds require additional shipping charges. 
Foreign orders, include sulllclent amount lor shipping. There Is a $10 
mlnfmum order. Bay Area and Los Angeles Counties add 6Vi% Sales 
Tax. Other California residents add 6% Sales Tax. We reserve the 
right to substitute manulacturer. Not responsible lor typographical 
errors. Prices are subject to change without notice. We will match or 
beat any competitor's price provided ft is not below our cost. 



568 BYTE July 1983 



Circle 221 on inquiry card. 



21ia« 5 o N s8/$995 2114 25 o NS 8/$1 095 



7400 
7401 
I 7402 
7403 
7404 
7405 
7406 
7407 
7408 
7409 
7410 
7411 
7412 
7413 
7414 
7416 
7417 
7420 
7421 
7422 
7423 
7425 
7426 
7427 
7428 
7430 
7432 
7433 
7437 
7438 
7440 
7442 
7443 
7444 
7445 
7446 
7447 
7448 
7450 
7451 
7453 
7454 
7460 
7470 
7472 
7473 
7474 
7475 
7476 
7480 
7481 
7482 
7483 
7485 
7486 
7489 
7490 
7491 
7492 
7493 
7494 
7495 
7496 
7497 
74100 
74107 
74109 
74110 
74111 
74116 
74120 
74121 
74122 
74123 
74125 
74126 
74128 



7400 



.19 

.19 
.19 
.19 
.19 
.25 
.29 
.29 
.24 
.19 
.19 
.25 
.30 
.35 
.49 
.25 
.25 
.19 
.35 
.35 
.29 
.29 
.29 
.29 
.45 
.19 
.29 
.45 
.29 
.29 
.19 
.49 
.65 
.69 
.69 
.69 
.69 
.69 
.19 
.23 
.23 
.23 
.23 
.35 
.29 
.34 
.33 
.45 
.35 
.59 
1.10 
.95 
.50 
.59 
.35 
2.15 
35 
.40 
.50 
.35 
.65 
.55 
.70 
2.75 
1.75 
.30 
.45 
.45 
.55 
1.55 
1.20 
.29 
.45 
.49 
.45 
.45 
.55 



74132 
74136 
74141 
74142 
74143 
74145 
74147 
74148 
74150 
74151 
74152 
74153 
74154 
74155 
74156 
74157 
74159 
74160 
74161 
74162 
74163 
74164 
74165 
74166 
74167 
74170 
74172 
74173 
74174 
74175 
74176 
74177 
74178 
74179 
74180 
74181 
74182 
74184 
74185 
74190 
74191 
74192 
74193 
74194 
74195 
74196 
74197 
74198 
74199 
74221 
74246 
74247 
74248 
74249 
74251 
74259 
74265 
74273 
74276 
74279 
74283 
74284 
74285 
74290 
74293 
74298 
74351 
74365 
74366 
74367 
74368 
74376 
74390 
74393 
74425 
74426 
74490 



CLOCK 
CIRCUITS 



MM5314 
MM5369 
MM5375 

MM58167 
MM 58 174 
MSM5832 



4.95 
3.95 
4.95 
8.95 
11.95 



.45 

.50 

.65 

2.95 

2.95 

.60 

1.75 

1.20 

1.35 

.55 

65 

.55 

1.25 

.75 

.65 

.55 

1.65 

.85 

.69 

.85 

.69 

.85 

.85 

1.00 

2.95 

1.65 

5.95 

.75 

.89 

.89 

.89 

.75 

1.15 

1.75 

.75 

2.25 

.75 

2.00 

2.00 

1.15 

1.15 

!79 

.79 

.85 

.85 

.79 

.75 

1.35 

1.35 

1.35 

1.35 

1.25 

1.85 

1.95 

.75 

2.25 

1.35 

1.95 

1.25 

.75 

2.00 

3.75 

3.75 

.95 

.75 

.85 

2.25 

.65 

.65 

.65 

.65 

2.20 

1.75 

1.35 

3.15 

85 

2.55 



LINEAR 



RCA 



LM301 

LM301H 

LM307 

LM308 

LM308H 

LM309H 

LM309K 

LM310 

LM311 

LM311H 

LM312H 

LM317K 

LM317T 

LM318 

LM318H 

LM319H 

LM319 

LM320(see 

LM322 

LM323K 

LM324 

LM329 

LM331 

LM334 

LM335 

LM336 

LM337K 

LM337T 

LM338K 

LM339 



.34 

.79 

.45 

.69 

1.15 

1.95 

1.25 

1.75 

.64 

.89 

1.75 

3.95 

1.19 

1.49 

1.59 

1.90 

1.25 

7900) 

1.65 

4.95 

.59 

.65 

3.95 

1.19 

1.40 

1.75 

3.95 

1.95 

6.95 

.99 



LM340 (see 7800) 
.99 
4.95 
4.60 
.69 
1.79 
3.75 
1.95 
2.50 
4.50 



LM348 

LM350K 

LM350T 

LM358 

LM359 

LM376 

LM377 

LM378 

LM379 

LM380 

LM380N-8 

LM381 

LM382 

LM383 

LM384 

LM386 

LM387 

LM389 

LM390 

LM392 

LM394H 

LM399H 

NE531 

NE555 

NE556 

NE558 

NE561 

NE564 

LM565 



1.10 
1.60 
1.60 
1.95 
1.95 

.89 
1.40 
1.35 
1.95 

.69 
460 
5.00 
2.95 

.34 

.65 

1.50 

24.95 

2.95 

.99 



H TO-5 CAN 



74S00 



74S00 

74S02 

74S03 

74S04 

74S05 

74S08 

74S09 

74S10 

74S11 

74S15 

74S20 

74S22 

74S30 

74S32 

74S37 

74S38 

74S40 

74S51 

74S64 

74S65 

74S74 

74S85 

74S86 

74S112 

74S113 

74S114 

74S124 

74S132 

74S133 

74S134 

74S135 

74S13B 

74S139 

74S140 

74S151 

74S153 

74S157 

74S158 

74S161 

74S162 



.32 
.35 
.35 
.35 
.35 
.35 
.40 
.35 
.35 
.35 
.35 
.35 
.35 
.40 
.86 
.85 
.35 
35 
.40 
.40 
.50 
1.99 
.50 
.50 
.50 
.55 
2.75 
1.24 
.45 
.50 
.89 
.85 
.85 
.55 
.95 
95 
.95 
.95 
1.95 
1.95 



74S163 
74S168 
74S169 
74S174 
74S175 
74S181 
74S182 
74S188 
74S189 
74S194 
74S195 
74S196 
74S197 
74S201 
74S225 
74S240 
74S241 
74S244 
74S251 
74S253 
74S257 
74S258 
74S260 
74S274 
74S275 
74S280 
74S287 
74S288 
74S289 
74S301 
74S373 
74S374 
74S381 
74S387 
74S412 
74S471 
74S472 
74S474 
74S482 
74S570 
74S571 



1.95 

3.95 

3.95 

.95 

.95 

3.95 

2.95 

1.95 

6.95 

1.49 

1.49 

1.49 

1.49 

6.95 

7.95 

2.20 

2.20 

2.20 

.95 

.95 

.95 

.95 

79 

19.95 

19.95 

1.95 

1.90 

1.90 

6.89 

6.95 

2.45 

2.45 

7.95 

1.95 

2.98 

4.95 

4.95 

4.95 

15.25 

2.95 

2.95 



INTERSIL 


ICL7106 


9.95 


ICL7107 


12.95 


ICL7660 


2.95 


ICL8038 


3.95 


ICM7207A 


5.59 


ICM7208 


15.95 



9000 



9316 
9334 
9368 
9401 
9601 



LM566 

LM567 

NE570 

NE571 

NE592 

LM709 

LM710 

LM711 

LM723 

LM723H 

LM733 

LM741 

LM741N-14 .35 

LM741H .40 

LM747 



1.49 

.89 

3.95 

2.95 

2.75 

.59 

.75 

.79 

.49 

.55 

.98 

.35 



LM748 

LM1014 

LM1303 

LM1310 

MC1330 

MC1349 

MC1350 

UC1358 

MC1372 

LM1414 

LM1458 

LM1488 

LM1489 

LM1496 

LM1558H 



.69 

.59 

1.19 

1.95 

1.49 

1.69 

1.89 

1.19 

1.69 

6.95 

1.59 

.59 

.69 

.69 

.85 

3.10 



LM1800 

LM1812 

LM1830 

LM1871 

LM1872 

LM1877 

LM1889 

LM1896 

ULN2003 

LM2877 

LM2878 

LM2900 

LM2901 

LM3900 

LM3905 

LM3909 

LM3911 

LM3914 

LM3915 

LM3916 

MC4024 

MC4044 

RC4136 

RC4151 

LM4250 

LM4500 

RC4558 

LM13080 

LM13600 

LM13700 



2.37 
8.25 
3.50 
5.49 
5.49 
3.25 
1.95 
1.75 
2.49 
2.05 
2.25 

.85 
1.00 

.59 
1.25 

.98 
2.25 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
3.95 
4.50 
1.25 
3.95 
1.75 
3.25 

.69 
1.29 
1.49 
1.49 



CA3023 
CA 3039 
CA 3046 
CA 3059 
CA 3060 
CA 3065 
CA 3080 
CA 3081 



2.75 
1.29 
1.25 
2.90 
2.90 
1.75 
1.10 
1.65 



CA 3082 
CA 3083 
CA 3086 
CA 3089 
CA 3096 
CA3130 
CA3140 
CA 3146 
1.19 



Tl 



TL494 
TL496 
TL497 
75107 
75110 
75150 
75154 
75188 
75189 



TL071 
TL072 
TL074 
TL081 
TL082 
TL083 



4.20 
1.65 
3.25 
1.49 
1.95 
1.95 
1.95 
1.25 
1.25 
75494 



75365 
75450 
75451 
75452 
75453 
75454 
75491 
75492 
75493 
.89 



Bl FET 



.79 
1.19 
2.19 

.79 
1.19 
1.19 



T TO-220 



TL084 
LF347 
LF351 
LF353 
LF355 
LF356 
1.40 



1.65 
1.55 
.80 
2.99 
3.49 
1.30 
1.15 
1.85 



1.95 
.59 
.39 
.39 
.39 
.39 
.79 
.79 
.89 



2.19 
2.]9 
.60 
1.00 
1.10 
1.10 



INTERFACE 



8T26 

8T28 

8T95 

8T96 

8T97 

8T98 

DM8131 

DP8304 

DS8835 

DS8836 

MISC. 

TMS99532 

ULN2003 

3242 

3341 

MC3470 

MC3480 

11C90 

95H90 

2513-001 UP 



1.59 

1.89 

.89 

.89 

.89 

.89 

2.95 

2.29 

1.99 

.99 



29.95 
2.49 
7.95 
4.95 
4.95 
9.00 

13.95 
7.95 
9.95 



2513-002 LOW 9.95 





VOLTAGE 




REGULATORS 




7805T 


.75 


7905T 


.85 


78M05C 


.35 


7908T 


.85 


7808T 


.75 


7912T 


.85 


7812T 


.75 


7915T 


.85 


7815T 


.75 


7924T 


.85 


7824T 


.75 


7905K 


1.49 


7805K 


1.39 


7912K 


1.49 


7812K 


1.39 


791 5K 


1.49 


7815K 


1.39 


7924K 


1.49 


7824K 


1.39 


79L05 


.79 


78L05 


.69 


79L12 


.79 


78L12 


.69 


79L15 


.79 


78L15 


.69 


LM323K 


4.95 


78H05K 


9.95 


UA78S40 


1.95 I 


78H12K 


9.95 








C. T TO-220 


K TO-3 






L TO 


-92 





IF VOU CAN FIND A PRICE LOWER ELSEWHERE. 
LET US KNOW AND WE WILL IKIEET OR DEAT THEIR 

PRICE! (SEE TERftlS BELOW) 

* Computer managed Inuentorv - virtually 
no Bach orders! 

* Very competltlue prices! 

* Friendly stall! 

* Fast seruice - most orders shipped within 
24 hours! 



1.00 




2.50 




3.95 




9.95 




.75 




1.50 




1.95 





EXAR 

XR 2206 
XR 2207 
XR 2208 
XR 2211 
XR 2240 



3.75 
3.75 
3.75 

5.25 
3.25 



I 

I 

Aj 



DATA ACQUISITION 



ADC0800 
AOC0804 
ADC0809 
ADC0817 
DAC0800 



15.55 
3.49 
4.49 
9.95 
4.95 



DAC0808 

DAC1020 

DAC1022 

MC1408L6 

MC1408L8 



2.95 
8.25 
5.95 
1.95 
2.95 , 



CMOS 



4000 

4001 

4002 

4006 

4007 

4008 

4009 

4010 

4011 

4012 

4013 

4014 

4015 

4016 

4017 

4018 

4019 

4020 

4021 

4022 

4023 

4024 

4025 

4026 

4027 

4028 

4029 

4030 

4034 

4035 

4040 

4041 

4042 

4043 

4044 

4046 

4047 

4049 

4050 

4051 

4053 

4060 

4066 

4068 

4069 

4070 

4071 

4072 

4073 

4075 

4076 

4078 

4081 

4082 

4085 

4086 

4093 

4098 

4099 

14409 

14410 

14411 

14412 

14419 

14433 

4502 

4503 

4508 

4510 

4511 

4512 

4514 

4515 

4516 

4518 

4519 

4520 

4522 

4526 



.29 

.25 

.25 

.89 

.29 

.95 

.39 

.45 

.25 

.25 

.38 

.79 

.39 

.39 

.69 

.79 

.39 

.75 

.79 

.79 

.29 

.65 

.29 

1.65 

.45 

.69 

.79 

.39 

1.95 

.85 

.75 

.75 

.69 

.85 

.79 

.85 

.95 

.35 

.35 

.79 

.79 

.89 

.39 

.39 

.29 

.35 

.29 

.29 

.29 

.29 

.79 

.29 

.29 

.29 

.95 

.95 

.49 

2.49 

1.95 

12.95 

12.95 

11.95 

12.95 

7.95 

4.18 

.95 

.65 

1.95 

.85 

.85 

.85 

1.25 

1.79 

1.55 

.89 

.39 

.79 

1.25 

1.25 



4527 

4528 

4531 

4532 

4538 

4539 

4541 

4543 

4553 

4555 

4556 

4581 

4582 

4584 

4585 

4702 

74C00 

74C02 

74C04 

74C08 

74C10 

74C14 

74C20 

74C30 

74C32 

74C42 

74C48 

74C73 

74C74 

74C76 

74C83 

74C85 

74C86 

74C89 

74C90 

74C93 

74C95 

74C107 

74C150 

74C151 

74C154 

74C157 

74C160 

74C161 

74C162 

74C163 

74C164 

74C165 

74C173 

74C174 

74C175 

74C192 

74C193 

74C195 

74C200 

74C221 

74C373 

74C374 

74C901 

74C902 

74C903 

74C905 

74C906 

74C907 

74C908 

74C909 

74C910 

74C911 

74C912 

74C914 

74C915 

74C918 

74C920 

74C921 

74C922 

74C923 

74C925 

74C926 

74C928 

74C929 



1.95 

1.19 

.95 

1.95 

1.95 

1.95 

2.64 

1.19 

5.79 

.95 

.95 

1.95 

1.95 

.75 

.75 

12.95 

.35 

.35 

.35 

.35 

.35 

.59 

.35 

.35 

.39 

1.29 

1.99 

.65 

.65 

.80 

1.95 

1.95 

.39 

4.50 

1.19 

1.75 

.99 

.89 

■5.75 

2.25 

3.25 

1.75 

1.19 

1.19 

1.19 

1.19 

1.39 

2.00 

.79 

1.19 

1.19 

1.49 

1.49 

1.39 

5.75 

1.75 

2.45 

2.45 

39 

.85 

.85 

10.95 

.95 

1.00 

2.00 

2.75 

9.95 

8.95 

8.95 

1.95 

1.19 

2.75 

17.95 

15.95 

4.49 

4.95 

5.95 

7.95 

7.95 

19.95 



SOUND CHIPS 

76477 3.95 

76489 8.95 

AY3-8910 12.95 

AY3-8912 12.95 
MC3340 1.49, 



ORDER TOLL FREE 800-538-5000 800-662-6279 

ALL MERCHANDISE p— -1 r— — . (CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS) 

100% GUARANTEED □ EE3 CALL US FOR VOLUME QUOTES 



1983 J3fl MICRODEVICES. INC. 



Circle 221 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 569 



2732 



32K EPROM 



276a 



64K EPROM 



PROMS 



Order by 

National 

Pari 

74S188 

74S287 

74S288 

74S387 

74S471 

74S472 

74S473 

74S474 

74S475 

74S478 

74S570 

74S571 

74S572 

74S573 

87S180 

87S181 

87S184 

87S18S 

87S190 

87S191 



Function 

32x8 OC 

256x4 TS 

32x8 TC 

256x4 OC 

256x8 TS 

512x8 TS 

512x8 OC 

512x8 TS 

512x8 TS 

1Kx8TS 

512x4 OC 

512x4 TS 

1KX4 0C 

1kx4TS 

1kx8 OC 

1kx8TS 

2kx4 OC 

2kx4 TS 

2kx4 OC 

2kx8 TS 



18SA030 82S23 
24S10 82S129 



EQUIVALENT PART NUMBERS 
Tl SIG MIMI Harris 

6330-1 

6301-1 

6331-1 

6300-1 

6309-1 

6349-1 

6348 

6341 

6340 

6305 

6306-1 

6352-1 

6353-1 

6380-1 

6381-1 



CAPACITORS 

TANTALUM 



DISC 



18S030 

24SA10 

28L22 

28S42 

28SA42 

28S46 

28SA46 

28S86 

27S12 

27S13 

24SA41 

24S41 

28SA86 

28L86 

24SA81 

24S81 



82S123 
82S126 

82S147 
82S146 
82S141 
82S140 

82S130 
82S131 
82S136 
82S137 
82S180 
82S181 
82S184 
82S185 



28SA166 82S190 
28S166 82S191 



7602 
7611 
7603 
7610 

7649 
7648 
7641 
7640 

7620 

7621 

7642 

7643 

7680 

7681 

7684 

7685 

76160 

76161 



1.95 
1.90 
1.90 
1.95 
4.95 
4.95 
10.95 
4.95 
12.95 
19.95 
2.95 
2.95 
9.95 
9.95 
19.25 
16.25 
17.20 
16.95 
39.95 
39.95 



WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO 
SUBSTITUTE MANUFACTURER 



ORDER 800-538-5000 
TOLL FREE 800-662-6279 

(CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS) 





6V 


10V 


15V 


20V 


25V 


35V 


50V 


,22uf 












.40 




.27 












.40 




.33 












.40 


.45 


.47 








.35 






.50 


.68 












.45 


.50 


1.0 






.40 


.40 


.45 


.45 




1.5 








.45 




.50 


.60 


1.8 














.75 


2.2 




.35 


.40 


.45 




.65 


.85 


2.7 




.40 


.45 








.90 


3.3 




.45 


.50 


.55 


60 


.65 


.90 


3.9 




.45 












4.7 


.45 


.55 




.60 


.65 


.85 


.90 


6.8 






.70 




.75 






8.2 














1.00 


10 


.55 


.65 


.80 


.85 


.90 


1.00 




12 


.65 




.85 


.90 








15 


.75 


.85 


.90 










18 






1.25 










22 




1.00 


1.35 










27 






2.25 










39 




1.50 












47 


1.35 














56 


1.75 














100 




3.25 












270 


3.75 















10pf 

22 

25 

27 

33 

47 

56 

68 

82 

100 

220 

330 



50V 
50V 
50V 
50V 
50V 
50V 
50V 
50V 
50V 
50V 
50V 
50V 



.05 

.05 
.05 
.05 
.05 

05 
.05 

05 
.05 
.05 
.05 
.05 



470 
560 
680 
820 

.001 uf 

.0015 

.0022 

.005 

.01 

.02 

.05 

.1 

.1 



50V 
50 V 
50V 
50V 



,47ul 

1 

2.2 

4.7 

10 

47 

100 

220 

470 

2200 



RADIAL 
50V 
25V 
35V 
50V 
50V 
35V 
16V 
35V 
25V 
16V 



.14 
.14 
.15 
.15 
.15 
.18 
.18 
.20 
.30 
.60 



COMPUTER 
GRADE 

26,000uf 30V 3.95 



1ul 

4.7 

10 

10 

22 

47 

100 

100 

150 

220 

330 

500 

1000 

1500 

6000 



AXIAL 
50V 
16V 
16V 
50V 
16V 
50V 
15V 
35V 
25V 
25V 
16V 
16V 
16V 
16V 
16V 



.05 
.05 
.05 
.05 



50V .05 

50V .05 

50V .05 

50V .05 



50V 
50V 
50V 
12V 
50V 



07 
.07 
.07 

10 
12 



MONOLITHIC 

1uf-mono 50V .18 47ul-mono 50V .25 

ELECTROLYTIC 



.14 
.14 
.14 
.16 
.14 
.20 
.20 
.25 
.25 
.30 
.40 
.42 
.60 
.70 
.85 



OPTO-ISOLATORS 



4N26 

4N27 

4N28 

4N33 

4N35 

4N37 

MCT-2 

MCT-6 



1N751 

1N7S9 

1N4148 

1N4004 

KBP02 

KBP04 

VM48 



1.00 
1.10 
.69 
1.75 
1.25 
1.25 
1.00 
1.50 



MCA-7 

MCA-255 

IL-1 

I LA -30 

ILO-74 

H11C5 

TIL-111 

TIL-113 



DIODES 

5.1 volt zener 
12.0 volt zener 
(1N914) switching 
400PIV rectifier 
200PIV 1.5amp bridge 
400PIV 1.5amp bridge 
Dip-Bridge 



4.25 
1.75 
1.25 
1.25 
2.75 
1.25 
1.00 
1.75 



.25 
.25 
25/1.00 
10/1.00 
.45 
.55 
.35 



MUFFIN FANS 
NEW UN-USED 

4.68" Square 
3.125" Square 

HEAT SINKS 

TO-3 style 
TO-220 style 

SWITCHES 

SPDT mini-toggle 
DPDT mini-toggle 
SPST mini-pushbutton 



14.95 
14.95 



.95 
.35 



1.25 

1.50 

.39 



FEDERAL EMPRESS 
SERVICES AVAILABLE 



TRANSISTORS 



2N918 

MPS918 

2N2102 

2N2218 

2N2216A 

2N2219 

2N2219A 

2N2222 

PN2222 

MPS2369 

2N2484 

2N2905 

2N2907 

PN2907 

2N3055 

3055T 

2N3393 

2N3414 

2N3563 

2N3565 

PN3565 

MPS3638 

MPS3640 

PN3643 

PN3644 

MPS3704 



.50 
.25 
.75 
.50 
.50 
.50 
.50 
.25 
.10 
.25 
.25 
.50 
.25 
.125 
.79 
.69 
.30 
.25 
.40 
.40 
.25 
.25 
.25 
.25 
.25 
.15 



MPS3706 

2N3772 

2N3903 

2N3904 

2 N 3906 

2N4122 

2N4123 

2N4249 

2N4304 

2N4401 

2N4402 

2N4403 

2N4857 

PN4916 

2N5086 

PN5129 

PN5139 

2N5209 

2N6028 

2N6043 

2N6045 

MPS-A05 

MPS-A06 

MPS-A55 

TIP29 

TIP31 

TIP32 



.15 
1.85 

.25 

.10 

.10 

.25 

.25 

.25 

.75 

.25 

.25 

.25 
1.00 

.25 

.25 

.25 

.25 

.25 

.35 
1.75 
1.75 

.25 

.25 

.25 

.65 

.75 

.79 j 



1CSOCKE 


TS 1 




1-99 


100 


8 pin ST 


.13 


.11 


14 pin ST 


.15 


.12 


16 pin ST 


.17 


.13 


18 pin ST 


.20 


1B 


20 pin ST 


.29 


.27 


22 pin ST 


.30 


.27 


24 pin ST 


.30 


.27 
.32 






40 pin ST 


.49 


.39 


64 pin ST 


4.25 


call 


ST SOLDER! 


AIL 


8 pin WW 


.59 


.49 


14 pin WW 


.69 


.52 


16 pin WW 


.69 


.58 


18 pin WW 


.99 


.90 


20 pin WW 


1.09 


.98 


22 pin WW 


1.39 


1.28 


24 pin WW 


1.49 


1.35 


28 pin WW 


1.69 


1.49 


40 pin WW 


1.99 


1.80 



MasterCard 



WW = WIREWRAP 
16 pin ZIF 6.75 call 
24 pin ZIF 9.95 call 
28 pin ZIF 10.95 call | 

ZIF = TEXTOOL 
. {Zero Insertion Forced 



DIP 
SWITCHES 



.85 
.90 
.90 
.95 
95J 




4 POSITION 

5 POSITION 

6 POSITION 

7 POSITION 
.8 POSITION 



r LED LAMPS 1 

1-99 100 up 
j Jumbo 

Red .10 .09 

( Jumbo 

Green .18 .15 

| Jumbo 

Yellow .18 .15 



BYPASS CAPS 

.01 UFDISC 100/6.00 

.1 UFDISC 100/8.00 

.1 UF MONOLITHIC 100/15.00 



LED DISPLAYS 

HP 5082-7760 .6" CC 

MAN 72 .3" CA 

MAN 74 .3" CC 

FND-357 (359) .375" CC 

FND-500 (503) .5" CC 

FND-507(510) .5" CA 



RESISTORS 

% WATT 5% CARBON FILM ALL 

STANDARD VALUES 

FROM 1 OHM TO 10 MEG OHM 

50 PCS. SAME VALUE .025 

100 PCS. SAME VALUE .02 

1000 PCS. SAME VALUE .015 



JDR Microdevices 

1224 S Bascom Avenue 

San Jose, CA 95128 

800-538-5000 • 800-662-6279 (CA) 

(408) 995-5430 • Telex 171-110 



VISIT OUR ~ NEW HOURS - 

IT/O// VUH M-VV-F, 9-5 

RETAIL STORE T-Th.,9-9 Sat. 11 -3 

PLEASE USE YOUR CUSTOMER NUMBER WHEN ORDERING 

TERMS For shipping include $2 lor UPS Ground or $3 lor UPS Blue 
Label Air Items over 5 pounds require additional shipping charges 
Foreign orders, include sullicient amount lor shipping There is a S 10 
minimum order Bay Area and Los Angelas Counties add 6' . Sales 
Tax Other California residents add 6 Sales Tai We reserve the 
right to substitute manufacturer Not responsible lor typographical 
errors Price s are subject to change without notice We will match or 
beal any competitor s price provided it is not below our cost 



1983 JDR MICRODEVICES. INC 



570 BYTE July 1983 



Circle 222 on inquiry card. 



2716 



16KEPR0MS 



2732 



32K EPROIVIS 



MICROCOMPUTER 
HARDWARE HANDBOOK 

FROM ELCOMP — $14.95 
Over 800 pages of ma nufacturers data 
sheets on most commonly used IC's. 
Includes: 

* TTL — 74/74LSand74F 

* CMOS 

* Voltage Regulators 

* Memory — RAM, ROM, EPROM 

* CPU's — 6800, 6500, 280, 8080, 
8085, 8086/8 

* MPU support & interface — 
6800, 6500, 280, 8200, etc. 



BEST SELLING 
BOOKS 

OSBORNE/MC GRAW-HILL 

Apple II Users Guide 16.95 

CRT Controllers Handbook 9.95 

68000 Assembly Language 

Programming 16.99 

CBASIC User Guide 15.00 

SYBEX 

Your First Computer 8.95 

The CP/M Handbook 14.95 

The PASCAL Handbook 18.95 

Microprocessor Interfacing 
Techniques 17.95j 



TRANSFORMERS 



12.6VAC 
12.6VAC CT 
12.6VAC CT 
12.6VAC CT 
25.2VAC CT 



12VAC 
12VAC 
12VAC 
12VAC 



FRAME STYLE 

2amp 
2amp 
4amp 
Samp 
2amp 

PLUG CASE STYLE 

250ma 
500ma 
lamp 
2amp 



4.95 
5.95 
7.95 
10.95 
7.95 



3.95 
4.95 
5.95 
6.95 



DC ADAPATER 
6. 9. 12 VDC selectable with universal 
adapter 8.95 

NOTE: Please include sufficient amount tor 
.shipping on above items. 



DISK DRIVES 

TANDON 

I TM100-1 5 •/." (FOR IBM) SS/DD 229.00 
! TM100-2 5 V (FOR IBM) DS/DD 295.00 

SHUGART 

SA 400L 5 V (40 TRACK) SS/DD 199.95 



SA400 



' (35 TRACK) SS/DD 

PERTEC 



189.95 



FD-200 sv ss/dd 179.95 

FD-250 s , ds/dd 199.95 

MPI 

MP-52 nt" (for ibm) ds/dd 295.00 

NOTE: Please include sufficient amount 
for shipping on above items. 



CABINETS FOR 
CABINET #1 *29.95 

DIMENSIONS 8 5 /a x 5 15 /ie x Z^k" 
COLOR MATCHES APPLE 
FITS STANDARD 5V*" DRIVES, 
INCL. SHUGART 
INCLUDES MOUNTING 
HARDWARE AND FEET 



NOTE: Please include sufficient amount for 
shipping on above items. 



8" DRIUE SALE 
FD100-8 $189 

SHUGART 801 EQUIVALENT 
SS/DD 10 FOR $175 EA. 

FD260-8 $239 

SHUGART 851 EQUIVALENT 
DS/DD 10 FOR $220 EA. 



5 1 /4" DISK DRIVES 

CABINET #2 s 79.00 

• COMPLETE WITH POWER 
SUPPLY, SWITCH, LINE 
CORD, FUSE & STANDARD 
POWER CONNECTOR 
DIMENSIONS: 11 % x 5% x 3 ,5 /i6" 
5V@1 AMP, +12V@1.5AMP 
FITS STANDARD 5V*" DRIVES 
PLEASE SPECIFY 
GRAY OR TAN 



• 



EDGE-CARD 


CONNECTORS 


S-100 ST 


3.95 


S-100 WW 


4.95 


72 pin ST 


6.95 


72 pin WW 


7.95 


50 pin ST 


4.95 


44 pin ST 


2.95 


44 pin WW 


4.95 


44 pin SE 


3.95 






DIP CONNECTORS 






HIGH RELIABILITY 


COMPONENT 


RIBBON 




DESCRIPTION 


TOOLED ST IC 


CARRIERS 


CABLE 






SOCKETS 


(DIP HEADERS) 


DIP PLUGS (IDC) 


ORDER BY 


AUGATxx-ST 


ICCxx 


IDPxx 


CONTACTS 8 


99 


.65 






14 


.99 


75 


1.45 




16 


.99 


.85 


1.65 




18 


1.69 


1 00 






20 


1.89 


1.25 






22 


1 89 


1.25 






24 


1 99 


1.35 


250 




28 


2 49 


1.50 






40 2 99 


2.10 


4.15 




For order 


instructions see 


"IDC Connecto 


s" below. 



POWER SUPPLY 
MODEL 2 $ 39 95 

MOUNTED ON PC BOARD 

MANUFACTURED BY CONVER 

+5 VOLT 4 AMP 

+ 12 VOLT 1 AMP 

NOTE: Please include sufficient amount for 
shipping on above items. 



CENTRONICS 

IDCEN36 Ribbon Cable 36 Pin Male 8.95 I 

CEN36 Solder Cup 36 Pin Male 7.9sJ 



RIBBON CABLE 



D-SUBMINIATURE 



CONTACTS 


SINGLE COLOR 


COLOR CODED 


1" 


10' 


r 


10' 


10 


.50 


4.40 


.83 


7.30 


16 


55 


4.80 


1.00 


8.80 


20 


.65 


5.70 


1.25 


11.00 


25 


.75 


660 


1.32 


11.60 


26 


.75 


6.60 


1.32 


11.60 


34 


98 


8.60 


1.65 


14.50 


40 


1.32 


1 1.60 


1.92 


16.80 


50 


1.38 


12.10 


2.50 


22.00 



DESCRIPTION 


SOLDER CUP 


RIGHT ANGLE 
PC SOLDER 


IDC 
RIBBON CABLE 


HOODS 


MALE 


FEMALE 


MALE 


FEMALE 


MALE 


FEMALE 


BLACK 


GREY 


ORDER BY 


DBxxP 


DBxxS 


DBxxPR 


DBxxSR 


IDBxxP 


IDBxxS 


HOOD-B 


HOOD 


CONTACTS 9 
15 
25 
37 
50 


2.08 
2.69 

2.50 
4.80 
6.06 


2.66 
3.63 
3.25 

7.11 
9.24 


1.65 
2.20 
3.00 
4.83 


2.18 
3.03 
4.42 
6.19 


3.37 
4.70 
6.23 
9.22 


3.69 

5.13 

6.84 

10.08 


1.25 


1.60 
1.60 
1.25 
2.95 
3.50 



For order instructions see "IDC Connectors" below. 

CALL FOR MOUNTING HARDWARE 



IDC CONNECTORS 



DESCRIPTION 


SOLDER HEADER 


RIGHT ANGLE 
SOLDER HEADER 


WW HEADER 


RIGHT ANGLE 
WW HEADER 


RIBBON 
HEADER SOCKET 


RIBBON 
HEADER 


RIBBON 
EDGE CARD 


ORDER BY 


IDHxxS 


IDHxxSR 


IDHxxW 


IDHxxWR 


IDSxx 


IDMxx 


IDExx 


CONTACTS 10 
20 
26 
34 
40 
50 


.82 
1.29 
1.68 
2.20 
2.58 
3.24 


.85 
1.35 
1.76 
2.31 
2.72 
3.39 


1.86 
2.98 
3.84 
4.50 
5.28 
6.63 


2.05 
3.28 
4.22 
4.45 
4.80 
7.30 


1.15 
1.86 
2.43 
3.15 
3.73 
4.65 


5.50 
6.25 
7.00 
7.50 
8.50 


2.25 
2.36 
2.65 

3.25 
3.80 

4.74 



ORDERING INSTRUCTIONS: Insert the number ot contacts in the position marked "xx" of the "order by" part number listed. Example: A 10 pin right angle solder style 
header would be IDH10SR. 



1983 JDR MICRODEVICES. INC. 



Circle 222 on inquiry card. 



BYTE July 1983 571 



FD-35 DISK DRIVE 

* Direct Replacement for 
Apple Disk II 

* Compatible with Apple 
Controller or other Apple 
compatible controllers 

* Specially designed electronics 
with low power consumption 

* DOS 3.3 and 3.2 compatible 

* Owner's Manual and Warranty 



Card included 



95 



NOW 

WITH ONE YEAR 

WARRANTY 

CONTROLLER CARD $ 89.95 



$229 



VIEWMAX-80 

A Full Function 

80 Column Card for Apple II* 
* Soft Video Switch * Shift Key Support 

2 YEAR WARRANTY 
NOW ONLY M89 9 5 

5 1 /4" DISKETTES 

VERBATIM DATALIFE 

SS/DD SOFT SECTOR 29.95 

SS/DD 10 SECTOR HEAD .... 29.95 

NASHUA 

SS/DD SOFT SECTOR 



► 



WITH HUB RING 

Ask about our full 

line of Nashua diskettes 



$-|Q95 

BEST BUY 



THOUSANDS SOLD 

JDR16KRAMCARD 

• Expand your 48K Apple to 64K 

* Fully compatible with Apple 
Language System — Use in 
place of Apple Language card 

+ Provides extra memory for 
Visicalc'" 

• Run PASCAL, FORTRAN, 
Integer Basic with appropriate 
software 

* Highest quality card features: 
gold edge connector, sockets 
for all IC's 

WITH 2 YEAR WARRANTY 



ASSEMBLED & TESTED 
WITH WARRANTY 



95 



KIT — INCLUDES ALL 
PARTS & INSTRUCTIONS 

BARE PC CARD 

WITH INSTRUCTIONS . . . 



$44 

$4Q95 
$-f 495 



apple coiyipatible 
sWy $99.95 

* Compact Switching Design 

* All Outputs regulated 

* Short Circuit and Overload 
Protection 

* Complete with Apple-type 
plug-in power cord 

* Apple Compatible — Yethigher 
output allows more disk drives 
and cards without overheating 

* +5V@5A, +12V@3A, 
-5V@ .5A, -12V @ .5A 

* Shielded enclosure: 10 3 /4 M x3V?" 
x 2'/i6" 



ACCESSORIES FOR APPLE II & HE 

ALL WITH 1 YEAR WARRANTY BY "3 



NEW IMPROVED 

JDR COOLING FAN 

• Easy modification — no 
modification of Apple required 

• Eliminates overheating 
problems 

• Switch on front controls fan, 
Apple, and extra outlet 

• Rotron whisper fan is the 
quietest, most reliable on the 
market 

NOW WITH SURGE 

SUPPRESSION 

$69.95 

WITHOUT SURGE 
SUPPRESSION s 59.95 

MONITORS 

MONOCHROME 

NEC J61201M -20 MHZ GREEN S 169 
ZENITH ZUM-121 - 15 MHZ GREEN $ 99 

TAXAN is mhz amber $ 139| 
COLOR 

AMDEK color i - composite $ 335 1 

NO CO.D. ORDERS PLEASE 



ORDER TOLL FREE 

800-538-5000 
800-662-6279 

(CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS) 



tPERISOFT 

■■■ 



PRINTERLINK 

CENTRONICS 
PARALLEL INTERFACE 

• Simple to use — No 
configuring required 

• Use with any Centronics 
printer — EPSON, 
OKIDATA, etc. 

• Includes Cable & Manual 



MESSENGER 

SERIAL 
INTERFACE 

• Connects to any RS-232 
serial device 

• 8 switch selectable 
drivers for printers, 
terminals and modems 

• Includes Cable & Manual 



TIMELINK 

REALTIME 
CLOCK 

■ Applications in file man- 
agement, word processing, 
communications, etc. 
Exclusive Alarm Clock 
feature 

- Battery recharges 
automatically 



NEWBUFFERLINK 

ADD-ON 
PRINTER BUFFER 

• Saves Time — No more 
waiting for printed output 

• Connects easily to any 
parallel interface 

• Expandable from 16K 



$59 



00 



$99 



00 



$84 



00 



to64K 

$-|3900 



(16K) 



JDR Microdevices 

1224 S. Bascom Ave. • San Jose, CA 95128 
(408) 995-5430 • Telex 171-110 



i 1983 JDR MICRODEVICES, INC. 



VISIT OUR RETAIL STORE 

HOURS: M-W-F, 9-5 T-Th., 9-9 Sat. 11-3 

PLEASE USE YOUR CUSTOMER NUMBER WHEN ORDERING 
TERMS: For shipping include $2 lor UPS Ground or $3 for UPS Blue 
Label Air. Items over 5 pounds require additional shipping charges. 
Foreign orders, Include sufficient amount for shipping. There Is a $10 
minimum order. Bay Area and Los Angeles Counties add 6Vi°/o Sales 
Tax. Other California residents add 6% Sales Tax. We reserve the 
right to substitute manufacturer. Not responsible for typographical 
errors. Prices are subject to change without notice. We will match or 
beat any competitor's price provided ft is not below our cost. 



572 BYTE July 1983 



Circle 223 on inquiry card. 



Unclassified Ads 



NEED: OSI Superboard information on how to add memory 
I/O ports, real-time clock, etc. In return. I have information and 
miscellaneous programs for the Apple. Gary De Pietro, 752 
Commerce St.. Thornwood, NY 10594, 
FOR SALE: Explorer-85 Microprocessor Kit by Netronics R & 
D. Kit includes power supply, keypad, motherboard, assembly 
manuals, Osborne's 8085 Assembly Language Handbook, and 
an S- 100 bus handbook. Kit is expandable to a 64K-byte per- 
sonal computer. Approximate value S275; asking S200. Roger 
Spauldmg, 25 1 4 West Bott, Colorado Springs, CO 80904, |303J 
630-8164 or 593-3318. 

FOR SALE: Heath H-8 32K serial and parallel I/O, cassette 
and disk interface, external configuration [for CP/M). wirewrap 
card, extender card. H-9 terminal, ASR33 hardcopy terminal: 
S 1000 Two each 12-15 volt, 20 A power supplies; repairable 
@ S25, Ballemine 320 true RMS AC voltmeter: S25, Conrac 
9-inch video monitor: S35, and a Tektronix RM35 oscilloscope: 
S250. Dave Marshall, 1803 Scenic Dr.. Alamogordo, NM 
88310, (505) 437-6374. 

FOR SALE: Four disk drives Shugart SA-450. double sided 
double density, raw drive, no power supply or case: $195 
each. Two Intel single-board computers, SBC 80/10: $ 125 and 
SBC 80/1 0A: SI 50. DEC LA36 logic board: S75. Please include 
shipping cost. Dean Carpenter, 163 Skyline Dr., Piano, TX 
75074, (214) 424-3943. 

FOR SALE: Teletype in excellent condition with paper-tape 
unit. Used as a standby terminal for four years. Annual 
maintenance check by terminal service company. Has stainless 
steel trays for paper supply and paper catcher. Unit has normal 
two wheels plus steel dolly with four furniture casters. LineA- 
Time paper feed included: S650 FOB, Bay area. J. L Morrissey, 
1683 Galvez Ave., San Francisco. CA 94124, (415) 647-2188 
days and 854-3497 evenings. 

FOR SALE: Escon IBM Selectnc Conversion Kit for Com- 
modore computers. Complete with worn-out Selectnc 
typewriter. S350. Ben A. Stewart. 501 Willow, West Baraboo, 
Wl 53913. (608) 356-9246 

FOR SALE: AIM-65 with 4K RAM. assembler ROM, 
enclosure, power supply, MTU lowercase/80-column software, 
and aH manuals: S300. Carl Schultz, 508 Cress St., Laguna 
Beach, CA 92651, (714) 497-5390. 

FOR SALE: SI 00 boards. Three 16K, 4 MHz static RAM 
boards (WAMECO MEM-2) with dipswitch bank select: S90 
each. One 8K, 4 MHz static RAM board: S30. All in excellent 
condition. F. L. Stiles, 1128 Timbergrove Dr., Knoxville, TN 
37919. (615) 691-01 12 evenings. 

WANTED: Mew or used print head for a Base 2 Model 800 
dot-matrix printer or information about same. Dick Nowak, 340 
Kmgsland St.. Nutley. NJ 071 10. (201) 235-4989. 
FOR SALE: TRS-80 Model I processor board, late model G 
board with schematic; tested and working: S 125 less Z80 pro- 
cessor. ROM, and RAM ICs. Also, complete Model I I6K Level II 
with numeric pad: S325. Ed Bashur, 10457 Seawood, El Paso. 
TX 79925. (915) 592-1441. 

FOR SALE: Heath H-14 line printer with RS-232C cable. 
Assembled and working but unused. Complete documenta- 
tion: S395 or best offer. K. Hue, 1 752 Las Vegas Trail #292, Fort 
Worth, TX 76108, (817) 246-5884. 

FOR SALE: Dumont oscilloscope 100 MHz. Dual trace, 
delayed sweep, all active devices in sockets, all solid state, no 
proprietary parts whatsoever, all off-the-shelf. Used only two 
out of five years. Will trade for Commodore 64 and Smith- 
Corona TP-1, outright. M. Preston, 1 132 A Pico Blvd., Santa 
Monica, CA 90405, (213) 452-2860. 

FOR SALE: HP-85 computer with 32K RAM. 82905B 
printer, HP-IB interface, plotter/printer ROM, I/O ROM. 
Assembly ROM, carrying case, cables, cartridges, and software 
(Games II, Visicalc, and more). Will sell all or part. G.H. Smith, 
53P/J Gardner Way, Clifton, CO 81520, (303) 434-4443. 
FOR SALE: TRS-80 Color Computer disk drive and con- 
troller, 20 Memorex double-density soft-sector floppy disks. Ep- 
son 8145 serial interface with cable, 6809 Assembly Language 
Programming by Leventhal, joysticks, Computerware Pac Man, 
Spectral Associates Space Invaders. Breakout. Items available 
separately. Any reasonable offer accepted. Bob Cent. 6826 
47th Ave NE. Seattle. WA 981 15, (206) 527-1883. 
FOR SALE: Four I6K static RAM boards (fully socketed) for 
Heath H-8. Excellent condition. Includes manuals and 
schematics. Asking $ 100 each or all for S 350. Willing to discuss 
trade. Will pay postage. Brian Aldiss. 37812 South Hardy Rd.. 
Molalla, OR 97038, (503) 829-7825 after 7 p.m. PT. 
FOR SALE: OSI computer, space boards, accessories. Send 
SASE for complete list and reasonable pnces. Tom Badgett. 508 
Woodland Dr., Bluefield. WV 24701 . 
WANTED: Crystalware programs for the Atari. Must have 
original documentation. Dave Palmer, 421 Chatsworth Lane, 
Canfield. OH 44406, (216) 533-6004,5-9 p.m. ET. 
FOR SALE: Complete Exidy System; Exidy Sorcerer II with 
Z80A, 48K RAM, 4K ROM plus 8K ROM Microsoft BASIC (re- 
movable), and is CP/M-compatible. S-l 00 expansion interface. 
Micropolis Model II subsystem with 3I5K on one drive, one 
serial port, one parallel port, graphics, and lots of software. 
Make an offer, Daniel Rappaport, 6109 Robinwood Rd.. 
Bethesda. MD 20817. (301) 229-0308. 



FOR SALE: Two S-l 00 memory boards. Logos I 8K static 
memory board with memory-protect and battery back-up cir- 
cuitry on board. Godbout 8K EconoRAM static memory board 
with Vector interrupt option. Both in excellent condition; S65 
each. Reeche Bass, 101 Caravan Villa, Montgomery, AL 
361 16, (205) 281-2210 after 5 p.m. 

FOR SALE: Apple II Plus Computer, no disk drive or 
monitor, less than a year old. $1000. Tim Sullivan, S\2Vz 
Salzburg Apt. 02, Bay City. Ml 48706, (517)892-6319. 
FOR SALE: Computer Devices Model 1 206 portable brief- 
case-style computer. Includes 80-column thermal printer, built- 
in acoustic modem and tape drive, spare RS-232C port, full 
ASCII keyboard, editor. BASIC, and 6800 tape assembler. 
6800-based with full documentation plus more. Hardly ever 
used: $ 1985 or best offer, retails at $3885. George Rourke, 69 
Bay State Ave. , Somerville, MA 02 1 44, (6 1 7) 666- 1117. 
WANTED: Spanish-speaking microcomputer fans (especial- 
ly technicians, engineers, and programmers) to exchange ideas 
and programs. Program Interchange, 41 T ravers Ave., Yonkers. 
NY 10705. 

FOR SALE: TRS80 Model I, 48K RAM, two disk drives, 
cassette recorder, Centronics 737 printer, RS-232C, modem, 
lowercase modification, and powerline filter. Software includes 
NEWDOS/80, Scriptsit, Flextext, Omniterm, editor-assembler, 
system disk, and all cables and manuals. Excellent condition: 
$2000. Mike Plihcik, 810 Brown Rd., Bndgewater, NJ 08807, 
(201) 526-7125. 

FOR SALE: Apple II Plus 80K with Mountain 32K card, Ep- 
son MX- 1 00 Graftrax plus printer with parallel interface card, 
two Apple disk drives with controller, BMC green monitor. Sys- 
tem Saver fan. Paddle Adapple. Novation Apple-cat modem 
with firmware, and 40 disks of software, including Pascal, Visi- 
calc, word processors, and games. First $3550 takes it (I'll ship 
UPS COD), Adam Ginsberg. POB 2379, Albany, NY 12222, 
(518) 457-5261. 

FOR SALE: Apple II with 48K, language card, Apple Disk II 
with controller, Applesoft ROM card. Zenith 1 2-inch green- 
phosphor monitor, and 40 disks of programs, including Apple 
Pascal 1.1 and Lisa 2.5. All hardware in mint condition, will 
ship in original boxes: S2300. Bill Rasmussen, 100 South Devine 
Rd., Vancouver, WA 98661, (206) 694-5958. 
FOR SALE: Zenith Z- 1 9 with cable, cover, and manual. Up- 
gradable to H-89 computer: $650. Anderson-Jacobson 1235 
acoustic coupler and modem with manual. Handles a 300 or 
1200 data rate, asynchronous. Both hardly used, in excellent 
condition. Originally $995. will sacrifice for S650. Will sell 
separately or as package. Stanley Tsu, 2725 Haste St. #1 10, 
Berkeley, CA 94704. (415) 849-0182 or 661-0568. 
FOR SALE: OSI CIP 16K with new CIS monitor, sound 
port, delay on reset key, screen invert, assembler/editor, and ex- 
tended monitor programs. All manuals, schematics, and plenty 
of software included. The computer operates at twice the nor- 
mal speed (2 MHz) and the cassette port operates at four times 
the normal speed: $270. I will add extra memory for $4 per K. 
Eric Praetzel. RR/1 Colgan. Ontario LOG 1G0, Canada, (416) 
936-3032. 

WANTED: I would like to exchange any hardware/ 
software information, ideas, and programs with owners of the 
Cyzern System 7000/AN-7000 Dennis Lo, 1991 Suffolk Ave., 
Port Coquitlam, BC V3B IH3, Canada. 
WANTED: Experienced Atari assembly-language program- 
mer to help me with DLIs, VBIs, display lists, scrolling, and 
animation for game-prograrnming purposes. I already know as- 
sembly language. Will work out finances. Robert Schiller, 657 
Calhoun Court, Hemdon, VA 22070, (703) 437-5042. 
FOR SALE: Apple II computer consisting of 256K memory, 
floppy-disk drive, 5 MB profile hard disk. Zenith monitor, 
COBOL, Business BASIC, Pascal, and single operating system. 
About I year old, still under manufacturer warranty. Also, 
QUME Sprint 5 printer and DEC VT-100 terminal with AVO. 
Rick Roth. 202 Parliament Dr.. Coraopolis, PA 15108, (412) 
262-5507 days and 262-4936 nights. 

FOR SALE: Heath H-l I processor (hardly used). H-27 dual 
floppy-disk drive, H-9 video terminal, QUME Spring 5 letter- 
quality printer, and 30 8-mch floppy disks with attractive 
storage case. Asking $6000. Dr. Frank Pimentel, 582 North 
Mam St.. Wallingford, CT 06492, (203) 265-6089. 
WANTED: Programs for the APF Imagination Machine. Enc 
Witt, POB 137, Germantown, OH 45327. 



FOR TRADE: I am interested in exchanging software with 
other OSI users. Send a full list of your software and I will 
reciprocate with what I have. Malcolm Chew, c/o Jill Cap- 
padona. POB 32276 UWF, Pensacola, FL 32514. 
WANTED: A copy of the first issue of Radio Shack's TRS-80 
Applications Sourcebook (26-2 1 1 4). I will pay ten dollars to the 
first person who sends Volume I only. J.B. Flippin. POB 2331, 
Springfield, VA 22152. 

FOR SALE: Exidy Sorcerer with 32K RAM, 8K standard basic 
ROM pack, S-l 00 expansion unit, S-l 00 Morrow Designs 
board, two RS-232C ports, two status ports, and four parallel 
ports. Includes joystick, joystick/sound adapter board, and all 
manuals. Also, more than six software programs. Hardware 
new: $2250, software new: S77; asking $1000 or best offer. 
Jean Pickett 5 Buttonwood St.. Hamilton. NJ 08619, (609) 
586-2810. 

FOR SALE: Apple-type joystick, in purchased condition. 
Also. Medfly Mania, Mission: Asteroid, and Space Warrior. All 
have original documentation, packages, and disks. All in mint 
condition: best reasonable offer Gregg Johnson, 1 04 1 
Autumn Meadows, Westerville, OH 43081, (614) 891-3520. 
WANTED: Apple games and utilities for trade. Please send 
list of programs when corresponding. Joe Staus, 107 Chapman 
Rd,. Mankato, MN 56001. 

FOR SALE: OSI C3A with 48K staoc RAM, dual 8-inch disk 
drives, and processors. Comes with 5 74 1 2-bit analog I/O-, 5 75 
sokJerless prototyping-, CA-2 1 48-line parallel I/O-, and a 570 
8-port interface, all for above boards. Also includes 550 1 6-port 
serial I/O. Hazeltine 1420, two operating systems, and 6502 
BASIC and assembler CP/M compatible. Includes all manuals 
and cables: new $9500, asking $6400. Chuck Swan, 60 Each 
HintzRd., Wheeling, I L 60090. (312) 537-3130, 
FOR SALE: Motorola Dev. System (like new) includes 
M68DSK2 Exordisk II. floppy disk, MEX 6850 ACIA micro- 
module, MEX68P12 printer interface module, MEX6832-22 
dynamic RAM module, MEX 1 46805-MC 1 46805 Micromodule, 
and 6809 Exorcicer. W. Kautter. Box 566, Leola, PA 17540. 
WANTED: One or two Hewlett-Packard 9830s or 9831s, 
working or not working. W.R. Flocks. 700 West Jackson / 1 20, 
McAllen, TX 78501, (512) 682-6008, 

WANTED: New or used Interact-R with hardware or soft- 
ware. Dr. H.S. Frank, 904 South Main St., Weatherford, TX 
76086. (817) 599-7131. 

FOR SALE: OSI C8P with 24K RAM and 8K ROM, 470 disk 
controller board, and RS-232C port. Hardly used, cost $1535: 
$500 or best offer. Adrian Segar, Solar Alternative Inc., 71 Main 
St., Brattleboro, VT 05301, (802) 257AS28 days, 257-1608 
evenings. 

WANTED: SAT tutorial program to run on an Osborne. P. 
Dawson, 284 Forest St., Oberlin. OH 44074. 
WANTED: Apple II 48K to 64K, disk drive with controller, 
monitor, modem, and printer. Entire system or parts. Peter Van 
Horn. POB 1 13, Devon, PA 19333. (215) 647-4214. 
FOR SALE: S-l 00 boards; SDS ExpandoRAM II 64K RAM 
with manual (48K installed), SDS ExpandoRAM 1 64K RAM with 
manual, Tarbell Cassette interface without documentation, and 
new CompuPro active bus terminator with data sheet: $300 for 
all. Keith Musson, 904 Rolling Holly Dr., Great Falls, VA 22066. 
FOR SALE: Alpha Micro AM- 1 00 system with 16-bit pro- 
cessor, 6-port serial interface, 64K Piiceon RAM, I2-slot power 
supply, CDC 10MB Hawk drive with controller, operating-sys- 
tem software, and documentation. Perfect condition; all for 
$6500 or best offer; will sell separately. Cliff Russo, 359 Broad- 
way, New York, NY 10013, (212) 966-0775. 
WANTED: Schematics and/or technical data on Atari Video 
Computer System 2600. L. Cleburne Jacks, 581 Crescent Rd.. 
Odessa, FL 33556, (813) 920-3592. 

FOR SALE: OSI C I P 28K, 6 1 board, disk drive, two operat- 
ing systems, cassette interface, sound, manuals, and lots of soft- 
ware. $545 takes all. J. Gurevich, 3420 Southwest 105 Ave., 
Miami, FL 33143. (305) 553-8762 evenings. 
FOR SALE: Processor Technology Sol-20 wth 48K RAM, 
8080 processor, 5-slot S-l 00, 16 by 16 display. Solos module, 
Helios II dual 8-inch disk system with version 1.4.0 PTDOS. 
Also, DECwriter LA-36 interfaced to the Sol system, two 16K 
RAM S- 1 00 boards, PT music system, 9-inch monitor, PT Access 
newsletters 1-1 to 2-1, and subscription to Proteus News. Helios 
and DECwnter not working: S2800. Todd Kaime, POB 675, 
Bloomfield, NM 87413. 



UNCLASSIFIED POLICY: Readers who have computer equipment to buy, sell, or 
trade or who are requesting or giving advice may send a notice to BYTE for inclusion in the 
Unclassified Ads section. To be considered for publication, an advertisement must be non- 
commercial (individuals or bona fide computer clubs-only), typed double-spaced on plain 
white paper, contain 75 words or fewer, and include complete name and address. This ser- 
vice is free of charge; notices are printed once only as space permits. Your confirmation of 
placement is appearance in an issue of BYTE as we engage in no correspondence. Please 
allow at least three months for your ad to appear. Send your notices to Unclassified Ads, 
BYTE/McGraw-Hill, POB 372, Hancock, NH 03449. 



July 1983 © BYTE Publication. Inc 573 



Unclassified Ads 



FOR SALE: Exidy Sorcerer 32K. BASIC. Sorcerer and BASIC 
manuals, technical and internals manuals, Leedex monitor. 
Backgammon, graphics games. US Map, and Plot cassettes: 
S600. Development ROMpak and manual: S80. Word Pro- 
cessor ROMpak and manual: $80. IDS 440G graphics printer 
and manual: S500. D.J. MacCrone. 1014 McClung Ave.. 
Huntsville. AL 35801. (205) 536-1080. 
WANTED: High school student interested in the computer 
field would appreciate a donated computer to experiment on. 
Jeff Savoy. 64 1 2 Crestwood Circle. Madison, Wl 53558. 
FOR SALE: Printer. IDS 440 Papertiger (in superb conditionl 
with graphics option and Apple-compatible parallel interface: 
$300. Sanyo 9-inch black-and-white monitor: $90. N. Halasz. 
225 Dickinson St.. San Diego, CA 92103. (619) 294-5870. 
FOR SALE: Heath H-8 16K RAM. processor, and memory 
board. No I/O interfaces. Runs front-panel tests OK. Asking 
S250. John J. Kofroth, 25 Concord Rd.. Darby. PA 19023. 
(2 1 5| 496-4000 ext. 5087 days and 237-63 14 evenings. 
FOR SALE: Altos 8000-2: $2750. ADDS Viewpoint: S350. 
Okidata 83A: $575. All items in perfect condition, with original 
packing and documentation. Perfect Writer and Supersoft FOR- 
TRAN available on 8-inch SSSD. Also, three ALF 3-voice music 
synthesizers for the Apple II: S 1 65 each. Complete with cables, 
software, and documentation. Michael Morris. 26321 Delos 
Dr., Torrance, CA 90505, |213| 534-4132. 
FOR SALE: Apple high-speed serial interface cards. Good 
working condition: S99. Chris Reiss. 5223 Edina Industrial 
Blvd.. Minneapolis, MN 55435, (612) 835-5787. 
FOR TRADE: Software for T/S 1000 and ZX81 in I6K. I will 
trade game and utility programs for programs of equal value; 
cassette only. Rod Hargis. Box 355. New Market. IA 51646. 
FOR SALE: Heath H-89 processor board, cassette interface 
board, and tape software. These parts plus some power supply 
modifications can turn an H- 1 9 terminal into a computer. S 180. 
Tim Stanley. 12801 Roma Ave. NE. Albuquerque. NM 87123. 



WANTED: Heath/Zenith H-19 video terminal, fully assem- 
bled, nearly new. J. Creamer, 139 Norstad Circle, Warner 
Robins, CA 31098, |9I9) 781-2398. 

WANTED: Tape-transport covers (lids) for PhhDeck tape 
drive (Mecca-Alpha) and information on running up to fourExa- 
tron stringy-floppies on one controller. C.T. Huth, 146 
Schonhardt, Tiffin, OH 44883. 

FOR SALE: Disks: 200 8-inch, single-sided, soft sectored; 
20% are IBM single density. 70% are Dysan double density. 
10% are others. Also. 20 Verbatim 5 W -inch, SSDD, 16-sector, 
certified 40 tracks. All are archival system backups with very 
low mileage. Fully guaranteed: $1.10 each postpaid. J.E. 
Matenkosky. 753 Jeffrey Dr., Greensburg, PA 15601. 
FOR SALE: Apple II Plus-compatible system, 64K, single disk 
drive with controller and warranty. Will sell complete: $999 or 
separately. Pete H. Pan. 2504 Derbyshire Blvd. Apt. IS, Cleve- 
land Heights, OH 44106, |2I6| 932-1578. 
FOR SALE: Intertec Superbrain Jr. 64K. CP/M with MBASIC. 
Two floppy-disk drives with 328K. Two Z80A processors 
operating at 4MHz. SI 500 postage paid. Robert Paradise. 528 
North State St.. Jackson, MS 39201, (601) 352-8149. 
FOR SALE: Televideo 920C terminal with extra page of 
memory, vinyl cover, and Novation CAT acoustic modem; ati 
in excellent condition: S550. Steve Rodia. 1734 Plateau Dr., 
Jackson, Ml 49203, (5I7| 784-3255. 

WANTED: Artec 32K-IOO static RAM card, populated or 
not. Documentation not required. S. Cawn, 3647 Vinton Ave. 
#9. Los Angeles. CA 90034, (2 13) 836-0955. 
FOR SALE: OSI C4P MF. 24K RAM. 5-inch disk drive, real- 
time clock. 16 colors in two resolutions, programmable tone 
generator, DAC, modem interface, printer interface, AC remote 
interface, uppercase and lowercase, dual joysticks, RF 
modulator, OS-65D with Microsoft BASIC and assembler, and 
all manuals. Over $2200 value; asking $1500. Keith Thomas. 
(605) 348-8960 after 3 p.m. 



FOR SALE: S- 1 00 boards including four 1 6K Problem Solver 
Systems memory boards @ S 1 50 each. Altair disk drive with 
controller @ S300. and other cards. Also, a Hazeltine 1510 ter- 
minal: S400. Richard Whiteman. 635 Holman Ave.. Athens, 
GA 30606, (404) 546-8814. 

WANTED: Apple II Plus users who would like to exchange 
programs, please send a list of your collection and you will 
receive a list of my large and diverse software programs. Lars 
Wiklund, POB 175. Edsbruk 59098. Sweden. Tel: 0493 70617. 
WANTED: IBM PC software exchange. Have games, 
utilities, and Visicalc overlays. Send single-side formatted disk 
for one of mine or write. Also, looking for instructions on how 
to recreate FAT. James Greene. 34 Crab Apple Place. Stamford, 
CT 06903. 

FOR SALE: Atari software collection: 30 programs on Max- 
ell disks include the newest games: S95. Send check or SASE for 
a list of programs. P. Wu. 1 794 1 Bascom St.. Irvine, CA 927 15. 
WANTED: DI/AN Controls 9030 dot-matrix printhead. Can 
possibly use solenoid wire units from dead head to rebuild 
mine. Will pay any reasonable cost. Richard Shelden, 5225 
Twilight Rd.. Roanoke. VA 24019. (703| 362-5506. 
WANTED: IBM Epson printer with cable for IBM PC. Also. 
Tandon disk drives and external cabinet with cable. Please send 
serial number and price. Also, will sell Visicalc IBM 256K com- 
plete with manual; make an offer. Jack Fischer, POB 14097, 
Tulsa, OK 74104. 

WANTED: College student would appreciate any un- 
wanted or broken computer equipment: boards, drives, etc. I 
will pay shipping. Brian T. Parr. 32 Millers Grove. Frankfort, NY 
13340, |31 5| 895-7279. 

FOR SALE: OSI C4P with Cegmon chip and Leedex Video 
100 monitor plus lots of software, documentation, manuals, 
books, magazines, and users journals: S400 or best offer. Marc 
Kamionkowski. 22476 Rye Rd., Shaker Heights, OH 44122, 
(216) 991-2668 evenings and weekends. 



BYTE's On g oin g Monitor Box 



Article Author(s) 

Build the RTC-4 Real-Time Controller Ciarcia 

Videotex: Science Fiction or Reality? Miller 

Prestel: The Basis of an Evolving Videotex System Hudson 
NAPLPS Standard Graphics and the 

Microcomputer Lax, Olson 

Privacy and Videotex Systems Neustadt 

Graphics Artistry On line Nisenholtz 

Commentary: Personal Computers and Videotex Malloy 

The Microsoft Mouse Peters 

Visi On's Interface Design Woodmansee 
Voice Lab. Part I : A System for Digital Speech 

Synthesis and Analysis Hoot 

Parallel I/O Ports for H-89 Computers LaClaustra 

BUBDISK Callamaras 

Commodore 64 Wszola 

The Strobe Plotting System Bishop 

The Touch of Color Dacus 

BYTE West Coast: Improving the User Interface at Lemmons, 

Digital Research Robertson 
The 8086— An Architecture for the Future, Part 2: 

Instruction Set Heywood 
User's Column: Interstellar Drives. Osborne 

Accessories, DEDICATE/32, and Death Valley Pournelle 

CP/M Plus Dahmke 

Quadram Corporation's MX700 Feigel 

The 8088 Connection Rollins 

Control Your Environment with the Atari 400/800 Hayes 

The Practical EEPROM Wheeler 

Alcor Pascal and Advanced Development Package Archer 
Add High-Level Logical Structure to Your FORTH 

Assembler Grazi 



Article # 


Page 


1 


26 


2 


42 


3 


60 


4 


82 


5 


96 


6 


104 


7 


1 14 


8 


130 


9 


166 


10 


186 


11 


210 


12 


226 


13 


232 


14 


248 


15 


266 


16 


286 



17 



19 
20 

21 
22 

23 
24 
25 



299 

323 

360 
388 
398 
428 
460 
470 
484 



Ciarcia s 
Up Top Again 

First place in the April BOMB con- 
test goes (once again) to Steve Ciar- 
cia for his "Build an RS-232C 
Breakout Box." Steve will get the 
$ 100 prize, Thomas Starnes came in 
second with "Design Philosophy 
Behind Motorola's MC68000, Part 
1 ." He'll be awarded the S50 kitty. 
Third place goes to Tony Zingale for 
his article on "Intel's 801 86: A 1 6-Bit 
Computer on a Chip." 



Correspondence 

Address all editorial correspondence to the 
editor at BYTE. POB 372, Hancock NH 03449. 
Unacceptable manuscripts will be returned if ac- 
companied by sufficient first-class postage. Not 
responsible for lost manuscripts or photos. Opin- 
ions expressed by the authors are not necessarily 
those of BYTE. Entire contents copyright © 1 983 
by BYTE Publications inc. All rights reserved. 
Where necessary, permission is granted by the 
copyright owner for libraries and others registered 
with the Copyright Clearance Center (CCC) to 
photocopy any article herein for the flat fee of 
S 1 .50 per copy of the article or any part thereof. 
Correspondence and payment should be sent 
directly to the CCC, 21 Congress St, Salem MA 
01970. Specify ISSN 0360-5280/83. S1.50. Copy- 
ing done for other than personal or internal 
reference use without the permission of McGraw- 
Hill is prohibited. Requests for special permission or 
bulk orders should be addressed to the publisher. 
BYTE® is available in microform from University 
Microfilms International, 300 North Zeeb Rd. Dept. 
PR, Ann Arbor Ml 48106 USA or 18 Bedford Row, 
Dept. PR, London WCIR 4EJ England. 



574 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Reader Service 


Inquiry No. Page No. 


Inquiry No. Page No. 


Inquiry No. Page No. 


Inquiry No. Page No. 


1 1st NATIONAL COMPUTER 205 


81 


COMMUNICATION CABLE 538 


161 


ENTER COMPUTER 89 


252 


MC NEILL258 


460 1 SUPER WAREHOUSE 300 


82 


COMMUNICATIONS ELECTR. 535 


162 


EPSON AMERICA 324, 325 


253 


MC NEILL507 


2 800 SOFTWARE 211 


83 


COMP.COMPNTS.UNLTD. 556, 557 


165 


EXPOTEK 246 


254 


MC-P APPLICATIONS 235 


468 A.C.E SYSTEMS 454 


84 


COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP. 85 


166 


EXXON OFFICE SYS.CO. 352 


255 


MEDIA DISTRIBUTING 315 


3 A.S.T.RESEARCH 125 


85 


COMPONENTS EXPRESS 162 


167 


EXXON OFFICE SYSTEMS 538 


256 


MEGABYTE INDUSTRIES 530 


4 A.S.T.RESEARCH 304, 305 


86 


COMPUADD 514 


168 


FIGURE LOGIC BUS.EQUIP. 532 




MEMOREX MEDIA PROD. 231 


5 AB COMPUTERS 533 


87 


COMPUADD 540 


169 


FORMULA INTL. 425 


257 


MEMORY MERCHANT 391 


480 ABC DATA PRODUCTS 372 


88 


COMPUCART 405 


170 


FORMULA INTL. 425 


258 


METHOD SYSTEMS 546 


6 ACTIVE ELEC. 364 


89 


COMPUPRO/GODBOUT 330 


171 


FRANKLIN COMP.CORP. 75 


259 


MICRO ADE 538 


7 ADDMASTER CORP. 408 


* 


COMPUPRO/GODBOUT 331, 332 


421 


FROBCO 342 


260 


MICRO AGE COMP.STORE 423 


8 ADISA CORP. 530 


90 


COMPUSERVE 79 


176 


G&G COMPUTER SYS. 338 


262 


MICRO BUSINESS WORLD 373 


9 ADV.COMP.PROD. 550, 551 


329 


COMPUSHACK 420, 421 


173 


GARDEN OF EDEN COMP. 534 


264 


MICRO MANAGEMENT SYS. 471 


10 ADV.COMP.TECH. 478 


91 


COMPUTER APPARATUS 539 


174 


GENIE COMPUTER CORP. 19 


265 


MICRO MINT 403 


12 ADV. DIGITAL CORP. 208 


92 


COMPUTER CHANNEL 441 




GENSOFT 139 


463 


MIRCO MINT 489 


488 ADV.DIGITAL CORP. 209 


93 


COMPUTER DISCOUNT PROD. 537 


175 


GENSTAR REI SALES CO. 122 


266 


MICRO PRO. INTL. 458, 459 


13 ADV.LOGIC SYSTEMS 385 


94 


COMPUTER ENTREPRENEUR 363 


176 


GIFFORD COMP. SYS. 338 


267 


MICRO SOLUTIONS 456 


14 ADV.SYS.CONCEPTS 374 


481 


COMPUTER EXCHANGE 200, 201 


177 


GILTRONIX INC. 542 


268 


MICRO WORKS, THE 224 


• ALF PRODUCTS, INC. 282 


482 


COMPUTER EXCHANGE 200, 201 


178 


GLADSTONE ELECTRONICS 496 


270 


MICROCOMP BUSN.IND. 51 


16 ALPHA BYTE COMP.PROD. 38, 39 


483 


COMPUTER EXCHANCE 200, 201 


261 


GLO LAB 538 


271 


MICROCOMP.BUSN.IND. 215 


17 ALPHA BYTE COMP.PROD. 267 


96 


COMPUTER INNOVATIONS 100 


179 


GOLDEN WEST SYSTEMS 400 


272 


MICROCOMP.BUSN.IND. 179 


18 ALPHA BYTE COMP.PROD. 260 


97 


COMPUTER MAIL ORDER 448, 449 


180 


GOODWILL ELECTR.CO. 546 


273 


MICRODYNAMICS 534 


19 ALPHA OMEGA COMPUTER 132 


98 


COMPUTER OUTLET 552, 553 


181 


GREAT SALT LAKE COMP. 531 


274 


MICROHOUSE 395 


20 ALTOS COMP.SYS. 193 


102 


COMPUTER PLUS 476 


182 


GREENWOOD MFG. 340 


275 


MICROLOG INC. 155 


21 AMDEK CORP. 173 


99 


COMPUTER STORE, THE 536 


183 


GTEK INC. 364 


331 


MICROMAIL 493 


22 AMERASSOC-ARTF.INTELLG. 503 


464 


COMPUTER STORE, THE 542 


184 


H&E COMPUTRONICS 13 


276 


MICROPERIPH.CORP.THE 350 


24 AMER. SQUARE COMP. 243 


* 


COMPUTER WAREHOUSE 135 


126 


HAMILTON/AVNET 247 


277 


MICROPROCESSORS UNLTD. 540 


25 AMER BUYING & EXPORT 374 


104 


COMPUTERUNE INTL-A 284, 286 


185 


HAYES MICROCOMP.PROO. 207 




MICROSOFT (CPD) 99 


26 ANN ARBOR TERMINALS 437 


105 


COMPUTERLINE INT'L-B 451 


186 


HAYES MICROCOMP.PROO. 


• 


MICROSOFT (CPD) 416 


28 APPARAT INC. 311 


108 


COMPUTERS AND MORE 532 




414, 415 


278 


MICROSTUF, INC. 389 


29 APPLE COMPUTER INC. CM, 1 


107 


COMPUVIEW PROD.INC. 65 


187 


HEWLETT-PACKARD 499 


279 


MICRO-TAX 306 


31 APPLE COUNTRY LTD. 529 


108 


COMREX 351 


27 


HOLLYWOOD HARDWARE 538 


458 


MICROTECH EXPORTS 230 


32 APPLEWARE, INC. 432 

33 APPLIED SOFTWARE TECH. 453 


109 


CONCURRENT CORP. 141 


188 


HUMAN SOFT 227 


381 


MICROTYPE 542 


110 


CONSOLINK 12 


189 


I.B.C. 23 


280 


MICROWARE 254 


34 ARBUTUS TOTALSOFT INC. 536 


111 


CONSTRUCTION SOFTWARE 354 


190 


I.T.M. 291 


281 


MILLER MICROCOMP.SERV. 137 


35 ARTIFICIAL INTL.RESRCH. 350 


472 


CONTROL ELEC. 136 


193 


I/O TECHNOLOGY 328 


284 


MORROW DESIGNS 236, 237 


36 ASHTON-TATE 142 


113 


CORONA DATA SYS. 93, 94, 95 


194 


IBM SYSTEMS SUPPLY DIV. 261 


286 


MOUNTAIN VIEW PRESS 341 


37 ASHTONTATE 176, 177 


114 


CORONA DATA SYS. 396, 397 


195 


IBM/SMALL SYS. DIV. 358, 359 


287 


MTI SYSTEMS CORP. 320 


38 ASHTON-TATE 376, 377 


115 


COST PLUS COMP. 488 


197 


IDE CORP. 184, 185 


288 


MULTI-TECH SYSTEMS 90 


39 ASPEN SFTW.CO. 172 


492 


COUGAR MOUNTAIN SOFT. 534 


198 


IMS INTERNATIONAL 375 


289 


MULTITECH ELECTR.INC. 298 


465 ATARI SERVICE GROUP 495 


493 


COUGAR MOUNTAIN SOFT. 544 


200 


INCOMM488 




MUSYS 67 


• AT & T LONG LINES 487 


116 


CREATIVITY UNLTD. 544 


201 


INFORUNNER CORP. 321 


292 


NEBS 508 


• AUTOMATED EQUPMNT. 469 


117 


CROMEMCO 5 


202 


INMAC392 


456 


NEC HOME ELECTR.USA 115 


40 AVOCET 429 


393 


CSC 540 


203 


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES 532 


457 


NEC HOME ELECTR.USA 117 


41 B&B ELECTR. 536 


118 


CUADRA ASSOC. 491 


204 


INT'L MICRO SYS. 322 




NETRONICS 294 


42 BALCONE COMP.CORP. 435 


119 


CUESTA SYSTEMS 546 


205 


INTEGRAND 310 


497 


NEW MEDIA GRAPHICS 540 


43 BALLATINBDEL REY BOOKS 490 


120 


CUSTOM COMP.TECH. 269 


206 


INTEL CORP. 473 


293 


NORTH HILLS CORP. 410 


' BARGAIN BOARDS 404 


• 


CYBERNETICS INC. 249 


208 


INTERACTIVE MICROWRE. 378 


294 


NORTH HILLS CORP. 530 


44 BASF SYSTEMS 255 


121 


CYBERNETICS MICRO SYS. 532 


209 


INTERACTIVE STRUCT. 241 


295 


NORTHWEST DIGITAL SYS. 268 


45 BASIS, INC. 121 


122 


CYBERSOURCE 546 


210 


INTERCONTN.MICROSYS. 118 


296 


NORTHWEST INSTR.SYS. 101 


46 BAUSCH & LOMB INSTR.SYS. 175 


67 


CYBERTEK 468 


212 


INTERTEC DATA SYS. 11 


297 


NORTHWEST INSTR.SYS. 443 


47 BAUSCH & LOMB INSTR.SYS. 175 


124 


DATA CABLE CO. 532 


214 


IRONSIDES COMP. CORP. 379 


298 


NOVELL INC. 411 


484 BAYTECH 302 


207 


DATA MAIL 334 


216 


J.C.SYSTEMS 138 


299 


OASIS SYSTEMS 112, 113 


466 BELL, JOHN ENGR. 541 


127 


DATA TRANSLATION INC. 461 


217 


J.F.ELECTRIC 534 


300 


OCTAGON COMP.SYS. 164, 165 


48 BETSY BYTES 408 


128 


DATA-LINE 408 


216 


JADE COMP.PROD. 560, 561 


301 


OFFICE NETWORKS CORP. 350 


49 BG COMPUTER APPL. 532 


129 


DATAMASTERS 546 


220 


JAMECO ELECTR. 548, 549 


479 


O'HANLON COMPUTER SYS. 357 


50 BHRT 253 


130 


DATASOURCE SYS.MRKTG. 128 


221 


JDR MICRODEVICES 568, 569 


302 


OLYMPIC SALES 475 


51 BIBLE RESEARCH SYS. 318 


131 


DATASOUTH COMP.CORP. 204 


222 


JDR MICRODEVICES 570, 571 


303 


OMEGA INFO.SYS. 350 


52 BINARY TECHNOLOGY 540 


132 


DATASOUTH COMP.CORP. 319 


223 


JDR MICRODEVICES 572 


304 


OMNI RESOURCES 433 


53 BLAT RESRCH & DEVELP. 318 


133 


DATATEK 544 


469 


JOINT INSTR. & EQUIP. 380 




ORA ELECTRONICS 543 


54 BOTTOM LINE, THE 301 


134 


DECISION RESOURCES 257 


224 


JUKI INDUSTRY OF AM 87 


306 


ORANGE MICRO 102, 103 


• BRYLAR 532 


494 


DHD534 


225 


JVB ELECTRONICS 544 


307 


ORYX SOFTWARE 110 


* BURLINGTON NORTHERN RR 483 


135 


DIABLO DISTRIBUTION 292 


226 


K&R COMPUTER CO.LTD. 468 


308 


OSBORNBMCGRAW-HILL 407 


55 BUSINESS MANAGER 477 


136 


DIAMOND SFTW.SUPPLY 293 


496 


KA DESIGN 540 


309 


OSM COMPUTER 413 


56 BUSINESS SOLUTIONS 312 


137 


DIGISOFT COMPUTER 457 


227 


KADAK PRODUCTS 206 


23 


OZTECH INC. 542 


57 BUSINESS SYS.RESRCKDEVLP. 530 


138 


DIGITAL DIMENSIONS 280 


228 


KENSINGTON MICROWARE 229 




PACIFIC COMPUTERS 178 


58 BYTE INDUSTRIES 244 


139 


DIGITAL ELECT.SYS. 20 


473 


KERN PUBLISHING 216 


310 


PACIFIC EXCHANGES 350, 530, 


• BYTE PUBL.INC. 271 


140 


DIGITAL EQUPMNT.CORP. 272, 273 


474 


KERN PUBLISHING 217 




536, 538, 540, 542, 544 


* BYTE BACK ISSUES 188 


141 


DIGITAL MARKETING 10 


229 


KEYTRONICS CORP. 109 


311 


PAN AMERICAN ELEC.INC. 504 


477 BYTEC HYPERION 361 


142 


DIGITAL RESEARCH 97 


230 


KIMTRON 431 


312 


PC TECHNOLOGY 488 


59 BYTEK COMP.SYS.CORP. 496 


143 


DIGITAL RESEARCH 314 


215 


KNOWLEDGEMAN 181 


313 


PEACHTREE SOFTWARE 152, 153 


60 BYTEWRITER 46 


• 


DIGITAL RESEARCH COMP. 479 


231 


LABORATORY MICROSYS. 542 


315 


PER SCI INC. 536 


61 C-SYSTEMS 544 


• 


DISCOUNT SOFTWARE 220, 221 


232 


LANGLEY-ST.CLAIR 78 


316 


PERCOM DATA 9 


11 C.D.S. 410 


145 


DBCWASHER COMP.PERFECT 73 


233 


LASER MICRO 517 


317 


PHASER 225 


62 C.S.D.INC. 530 


146 


DOKAY COMP.PROO.INC. 


234 


LEADING EDGE PROD. Clll 


73 


PHONE 1 199 


448 CABLES UNLTD. 546 




554,555 


235 


LIBERTY COMP. SALES 309 


318 


PICKLES & TROUT 274 


64 CALIF. DATA CORP. 432 


461 


DUAL SYSCONTROL CORP. 302 


236 


LIGO RESEARCH INC. 123 


319 


PION INC. 156 


' CALIF. DIGITAL 558, 559 


147 


DWIGHT CO. INC. 536 


237 


LOGICAL DEVICES 392 


490 


PIXELTRONIX 534 


* CALIF.MICRO.COMP. 476 


148 


DYSAN CORP. 327 


238 


LOGICAL MICROCOMPUTER 157 


321 


POTOMAC MICRO-MAGIC 279 


65 CANON U.S.A. 167 


149 


E/Z ASSOC. 538 


239 


LOMAS DATA PRODUCTS 481 


322 


PRACTICAL PERIPH. 14, 15 


66 CDR SYSTEMS 530 


150 


EAST SIDE SOFTWARE 467 


240 


LYBEN COMP.SYS. 456 


323 


PRECISION DATA PROD. 468 


68 CHECK-MATE 288 


151 


EASTERN ENTERPRISES 412 


241 


LYBEN COMP.SYS. 536 


324 


PRINCETON GRAPHIC SYS. 335 


69 CHIPS & DALE 538 


500 


ECONOMY PERIPH. 544 


242 


LYBEN COMP.SYS. 542 


325 


PRINTEK 289 


70 CHRISLIN INDUSTRIES 455 


152 


ECOSOFT 490 


243 


LYCO COMPUTER 213 


326 


PRINTER STORE, THE 180 


71 CIPHER DATA PROOUCTS 57 


153 


EDUCATIONAL MICROCOMP. 355 




MACMILLAN BOOK CLUBS 497 


327 


PRIORITY ONE 562, 563, 564, 


72 CITICORP LATINO 546 


154 


EDUCATIONAL MICROCOMP. 507 


245 


MACROTECH INT'L. 393 




565 566, 567 


478 CLEO 270 


155 


ELECTRONIC SPCLISTS 478 


247 


MANNESMANN TALLY 146 


• 


PROFESSIONAL BUSN.SPCLTS. 


74 CLEVELAND CODONICS 390 


156 


ELECTROSONICS 536 


248 


MANX SOFTWARE 22 




279 


75 CMC.INTL. 383 


157 


ELITE SOFTWARE 546 


486 


MARK WILLIAMS CO. 426 


332 


PROGRAMMERS SFTW. EX. 258 


76 CMC.INT'L. 329 


• 


ELLIS COMPUTING 251 


487 


MARK WILLIAMS CO. 427 


333 


PROGRAMMING INTL. 275 


77 COGITATE 532 


158 


EMERY AIR FREIGHT 116 


250 


MARYMAC INDUSTRIES 513 


334 


PROGRAMMING INT'L. 276 


78 COLONIAL DATA SERV. 371 


• 


EMPIRICAL RESRCH.GRP. 48 


251 


MAXELL DATA PRODUCTS 295 


335 


PROGRAMMING INT'L. 277 


499 COLORADO COMP.PERIPH. 544 


159 


ENERCOMP 124 


470 


MCGRAW-HILL BOOKSTORE 436 


336 


PROGRAMMING INT'L. 278 


79 COLUMBIA DATA PROD. 80, 81 


160 


ENGINEERING SPECIALTIES 542 


485 


MCGRAW-HILL BOOKSTORE 515 


337 
338 
339 


PROMPTDOC, INC. 92 
PROXIMITY DEVICES CORP. 228 
PURCHASING AGENT, THE 170 










■ 












340 


QANTEX DIV. 163 


To get further information on 


the products advertised in BYTE, fill 


out tf 


ie reader service card with 1 


341 
342 
343 


QUADRAM CORP. 58, 59 
QUADRAMCORP 17 
QUADRAM CORP. 222 


your name and address Then c 


rcle the appropriate numbers for th 


? adve 


rtisers you select from the 1 


list. Add a 20-cent stamp to the 


card, then drop it in the mail. Not or 


lly do 


you gain information, but 1 


344 
449 
345 


QUARK ENGINEERING 368, 369 
QUBIE DISTRIBUTING 70 
QUELO 536 


our advertisers are encouraged t 


o use the marketplace provided by B> 


'TE Tr 


lis helps us bring you a big- 1 


ger BYTE. The index is provided 


is an additional service by the publis 


her, w 


'ho assumes no liability for 1 


346 


RADIO SHACK CIV 

RAGE 390 

RANA SYSTEMS 24, 25 

RCA 71 

RED BARON COMP.PROD. 140 

W3 © BYTE Publications Inc 575 


errors or omissions "Correspon 


1 directly with company. 




1 


347 
348 
349 

July 1 










1 





Reader Service 



Inquiry No. 



Page No. 



467 REMOTE MEASUREMNT SYS. 347 

350 RIXON 445 

351 RM DISTRIBUTORS 350 

352 ROCKY MT.MICRO INC. 197 

353 RTL PROGRAMMING AIDS 410 

354 S C DIGITAL 242 

471 S-100 DIV. 696 CORP. 182 

356 S-100 DIV. 696 CORP. 240 
80 SAFEWARE 120 

357 SAFT PORTABLE BATTERY 53 

358 SAGE COMP.TECH. 399 

359 SATURN SYSTEMS INC. 111 

360 SATURN SYSTEMS INC. 370 
314 SCIENTIFIC ENG. LAB. 404 

501 SCION CORP. 6 

502 SCION CORP. 6 

* SCOTTSDALE SYSTEMS 259 

362 SDSYSTEMS281 

363 SEATTLE COMP.PRODS. 150 

364 SEEQUA COMP.CORP. 91 
489 SELENE ASSOC. 530 

365 SEMI DISK SYSTEMS 183 

366 SENTINEL COMP.PROD. 160 
491 SEXTANT SYS. 534 

367 SHEEPSHEAD SOFTWARE 534 

368 SIERRA DATA SCIENCES 36, 37 

• SILICON SPECIALTIES 143 
370 SILVER-REED AMERICA 262 



Inquiry No. 



Page No. 



371 SLICER COMPUTER INC. 447 

372 SLR SYSTEMS 534 

373 SLUDER508 

374 SOFTCRAFT 149 

375 SOFTECH MICROSYS 127 

376 SOFTECHNICS 540 
455 SOFTRENT168 

377 SOFTWARE ARTS 1 19 

378 SOFTWARE BANC 189 

379 SOFTWARE BANC 303 
495 SOFTWARE SERVICES 538 

* SORCIM 344, 345 

382 SOUTHERN COMP.SYS. 446 
462 STAR LOGIC 339 

383 STAR MICRONICS 191 

384 STAR SOFTWARE SYS. 313 

386 STRATEGIC SYSTEM CORP. 98 

387 SUNNY INT'L. 529 

388 SUNTRONICS 547 

389 SUPERSOFT 133 

390 SUPERSOFT 238 

391 SWI INTL. 195 

392 SYBEX161 
123 SYNTEX512 

394 SYSTEM VISION CORP. 214 

395 TAB BOOKS 465 

396 TALLGRASS TECH. 47 
475 TATUM LABS 400 



Inquiry No. 



Page No. 



397 TAURUS COMP.PROD.INC. 68 

398 TAURUS COMP.PROD.INC. 174 

399 TAYCO BUSINESS FORMS 542 

411 TDI 168 

400 TDK ELECTRONICS 401 

401 TECH-DATA CORP. 530 

402 TECHNIGRAPHIC DESIGNS 544 

403 TEKTRONIX INC. 159 

404 TELECON SYSTEMS 52 

405 TELETEi\49 

406 TELEVIDEO INC. 264, 265 

407 TERMINALS TERRIFIC 366 

408 TEXAS COMP.SYS. 463 

409 THORN EMI 438, 439 

410 THREE M COMPANY 367 

412 TINNEY, ROBERT GRAPHICS 326 

413 TNWCORP. 86 

414 TOPAZ INC. 171 

415 TOSHIBA AMERICA INC. 316, 317 
199 TOUMAYAN & ASSOC. 446 

417 TRANSTAR55 

418 TRANSTAR333 

419 TRANSTAR485 

420 TRI-TECHNOLOGY SYS. 540 

422 TRISTAR DATA SYS. 294 

423 TSK ELECTR.CORP. 343 

424 TYMSHARE INC. 287 
428 U.S. EXCHANGE 546 



Inquiry No. 



Page No. 



425 U.S. MICRO SALES 349 

426 U.S. MICRO SALES 545 

427 U.S. ROBOTICS 194 

430 UNITED COMPUTER 69 

431 VICTOR TECHNOLOGIES 144, 145 

432 VIDEX21 

433 VIDIOM INC. 456 

434 VISUAL TECH.INC. 77 

435 VLM COMPUTER ELEC. 404 

436 VOTRAX 283 

437 VR DATA 346 

438 WADSWORTH ELECTRONIC 
PUBL. 365 

• WAREHOUSE SOFTWARE 134 

439 WASHINGTON COMP.SERV. 454 

440 WASHINGTON COMP.SERV. 290 

442 WHITESMITHS LTD. 409 

443 WILD HARE COMP.SYS. 245 

444 WINCHENDON GRP..THE 239 

445 WINTEK CORP. 432 

446 WINTERHALTER & ASSOC. INC. 
354 

447 WORLDWIDE COMP.SUPPUES 400 

450 WYSE TECHNOLOGY 386, 387 

451 X COMP 169 

452 XEROX 336, 337 

453 YANG ELECTR. SYS. 532 
'Correspond directly with company. 



BYTE ADVERTISING SALES STAFF: 

J. Peter Huestls, Advertising Sales Manager, 70 Main Street, Peterborough, N.H. 03458 Tel (603) 924-9281 



NEW ENGLAND 

ME, NH, VT, MA, Rl 

Paul McPherson, Jr. (617) 262-1160 

McGraw-Hill Publications 

607 Boylston Street 

Boston, MA 021 16 

ATLANTIC 

NJ (NORTH), NY, NYC, CT 

Eugene Duncan (212) 997-2096 

McGraw-Hill Publications 

1 221 Ave of the Americas - 39th Floor 

New York, NY 10020 

Dick McGurk (212) 997-3588 
McGraw-Hill Publications 
t221 Ave of the Americas - 39th Floor 
New York, NY 10020 

EAST 

PA (EAST), NJ (SOUTH), MD, VA, W. VA, 

DE, D.C. 

Daniel Ferro (215) 496-3833 

McGraw-Hill Publications 

Three Parkway 

Philadelphia, PA 19102 

SOUTHEAST 

NC, SC, GA, FL, AL, TN, 

Maggie McClelland (404) 252-0626 

McGraw-Hill Publications 

41 70 Ashford Dunwoody Road - Suite 420 

Atlanta, GA 30319 



MIDWEST 

IL, MO, KS, IA, ND, SD, MN, Wl, NB 

Jack Anderson (312) 751-3740 

McGraw-Hill Publications 

Blair Building 

645 N. Michigan Ave 

Chicago, IL 6061 1 

GREAT LAKES, OHIO REGION 

Ml, OH, PA (ALLEGHENY), KY, IN, 
EASTERN CANADA 
Dennis Riley (31 3) 352-9760 
McGraw-Hill Publications 
4000 Town Center - Suite 770 
Southfleld, Ml 48075 

SOUTHWEST, ROCKY MOUNTAIN 

UT, CO, WY, OK, TX, AR, MS, LA 
Alan Morris (214) 458-2400 
McGraw-Hill Publications 
Prestonwood Tower - Suite 907 
5151 Beltllne 
Dallas, TX 75240 

SOUTH PACIFIC 

Southern CA, AZ, NM, LAS VEGAS 
Page Goodrich (714) 557-6292 
McGraw-Hill Publications 
3301 Red Hill Ave 
Building #1, Suite 222 
Costa Mesa, CA 92626 



Karen Nlles (213) 480-5243, 487-1160 

McGraw-Hill Publications 
3333 Wllshlre Boulevard #407 
Los Angeles, CA 90010 

NORTH PACIFIC 

HI, WA, OR, ID, MT, NORTHERN CALIF, 

NV (EXCEPT LAS VEGAS) W. CANADA 

David Jern (415) 362-4600 

McGraw-Hill Publications 

425 Battery St. 

San Francisco, CA 941 11 

Bill McAfee (415) 964-0624 

McGraw-Hill Publications 
1 000 Elwell Court - Suite 225 
Palo Alto, CA 94303 

WEST COAST SURPLUS AND RETAIL 

ACCOUNTS 

Tom Harvey (805) 964-8577 

3463 State St. - Suite 256 

Santa Barbara, CA 93105 

Post Card Mailings 

National 

Bradley Browne (603| 924-9281 

BYTE Publications 
70 Main Street 
Peterborough, N.H. 03458 



International Advertising Sales Representatives: 




Mrs. Maria Sarmlento 


Mrs. Gurlt Gepner 




Mr. Michael Sales 


Seavex Ltd. 


Pedro Telxelra 8, Off. 320 


McGraw-Hill Publishing 


Co. 


McGraw-Hill Publishing Co. 


05-49/50 Tanglln Shopping Center 


Iberia Mart 1 


115 Yosephtal St. 




1 7 rue Georges Bizet 


1 9 Tanglln Rd. Singapore 1 024 


Madrid 4, Spain 


Bat Yam, Israel 




F 75116 Paris 


Republic of Singapore 


45 52 891 


866 561 321 39 




France 
720 33 42 




Mr. Andrew Karnlg 


Mr. Fritz Krusebecker 






Seavex, Ltd. 


Andrew Karnlg & Associates 


McGraw-Hill Publishing 


Co. 


Mr. Arthur Scheffer 


Room 102, Yu Yuet Lai Bldg. 


Kungsholmsgatan 10 


Lleblgstrasse 27C 




McGraw-Hill Publishing Co. 


43-55 Wyndham St. Central 


1 12 27 Stockholm, Sweden 


D-6000 Frankfurt/Main 


1 


34 Dover St. 


Hong Kong 


08 51 68 70 


West Germany 
72 01 81 




London W1X 3RA 
England 




Mr. Hans Csokor 






01 493 1451 


Nikkei/McGraw-Hill Publishing Co 


Publlmedla 








Nikkei Annex Bldg 


Relsnerstrasse 61 






Mr. Ello Gonzaga 


2-1-2 Uchlkanda 


A-1 037 Vienna, Austria 






McGraw-Hill Publishing Co. 
Via Baracchinl 1 
20123 Milan, Italy 
86 90 617 


Chlyoda-Ku 
Tokyo, Japan 



576 July 1983 © BYTE Publications Inc 



CVTE 



READER SERVICE 



m 



JULY 1983 
4173 



Name 



For fastest service transfer mailer label from wrapper to 
coupon provided at the right. Requests cannot be honored 
unless zip code is given. This card valid for 90 days only. 
NOTE— If label is missing or defaced fill out coupon 
carefully— PLEASE PRINT— this is the only way to get 
requested material to you. 



(Title) 

Address . 
City 



. (Company) 



. State . 



-Zip 



1 21 41 


01 


81 


101 


121 


141 


161 181 


2 22 42 


62 


82 


102 


122 


142 


162 182 


3 23 43 


63 


83 


103 


123 


143 


163 183 


4 24 44 


64 


84 


104 


124 


144 


164 184 


5 25 45 


65 


85 


105 


125 


145 


165 185 


6 26 46 


66 


86 


106 


126 


146 


166 186 


7 27 47 


67 


87 


107 


127 


147 


167 187 


8 28 48 


68 


88 


108 


128 


148 


168 188 


9 29 49 


69 


89 


109 


129 


149 


169 189 


10 30 50 


70 


90 


110 


130 


150 


170 190 


11 31 51 


71 


91 


111 


131 


151 


171 191 


12 32 52 


72 


92 


112 


132 


152 


172 192 


13 33 53 


73 


93 


113 


133 


153 


173 193 


14 34 54 


74 


94 


114 


134 


154 


174 194 


15 35 55 


75 


95 


115 


135 


155 


175 195 


16 36 56 


76 


96 


116 


136 


156 


176 196 


17 37 57 


77 


97 


117 


137 


157 


177 197 


18 38 58 


78 


98 


118 


138 


158 


178 196 


19 39 59 


79 


99 


119 


139 


159 


179 199 


20 40 60 


80 


100 


120 


140 


160 


180 200 



201 221 241 261 281 

202 222 242 262 282 

203 223 243 263 283 

204 224 244 264 284 

205 225 245 265 285 

206 226 246 266 286 

207 227 247 267 287 

208 228 248 268 288 

209 229 249 269 289 

210 230 250 270 290 

211 231 251 271 291 

212 232 252 272 292 

213 233 253 273 293 

214 234 254 274 294 

215 235 255 275 295 

216 236 256 276 296 

217 237 257 277 297 

218 238 258 278 298 

219 239 259 279 299 

220 240 260 280 300 



301 321 

302 322 

303 323 

304 324 

305 325 

306 326 

307 327 

308 328 

309 329 

310 330 

311 331 

312 332 

313 333 

314 334 

315 335 

316 336 

317 337 

318 338 

319 339 

320 340 



341 


361 


381 


342 


362 


382 


343 


363 


383 


344 


364 


384 


345 


365 


385 


346 


366 


386 


347 


367 


387 


348 


368 


388 


349 


369 


389 


350 


370 


390 


351 


371 


391 


352 


372 


392 


353 


373 


393 


354 


374 


394 


355 


375 


395 


356 


376 


396 


357 


377 


397 


358 


378 


398 


359 


379 


399 


360 


380 


400 



401 421 

402 422 

403 423 

404 424 

405 425 

406 426 

407 427 

408 428 

409 429 

410 430 

411 431 

412 432 

413 433 

414 434 

415 435 

416 436 

417 437 

418 438 

419 439 

420 440 



441 


461 


481 


442 


462 


482 


443 


463 


483 


444 


464 


484 


445 


465 


485 


446 


466 486 


447 


467 


487 


448 


468 


488 


449 


469 


489 


450 


470 


490 


451 


471 


491 


452 


472 


492 


453 


473 


493 


454 


474 


494 


455 


475 


495 


456 


476 


496 


457 


477 


497 


458 


478 


498 


459 


479 


499 


460 


480 


500 



501 521 

502 522 

503 523 

504 524 

505 525 

506 526 

507 527 

508 528 

509 529 

510 530 

511 531 

512 532 

513 533 

514 534 

515 535 

516 536 

517 537 

518 538 

519 539 

520 540 



541 


561 


581 


54? 


562 


582 


543 


563 


583 


544 


564 


584 


545 


565 


585 


5 '.6 


566 


586 


547 


567 


587 


548 


568 


588 


549 


569 


589 


550 


570 


590 


551 


571 


591 


552 


572 


592 


553 


573 


593 


554 


574 


594 


555 


575 


595 


556 


576 


596 


557 


577 


597 


558 


578 


598 


559 


579 


599 


560 


580 


600 



601 621 

602 622 

603 623 

604 624 

605 625 

606 626 

607 627 

608 628 

609 629 

610 630 

611 631 

612 632 

613 633 

614 634 

615 635 

616 636 

617 637 

618 638 

619 639 

620 640 



641 661 681 

642 662 682 

643 663 683 

644 664 684 

645 665 685 

646 666 686 

647 667 687 

648 668 688 

649 669 689 

650 670 690 

651 671 691 

652 672 692 

653 673 693 

654 674 694 

655 675 695 

656 676 696 

657 677 697 

658 678 698 

659 679 699 

660 680 700 



BYTE S BOIVIB is your direct line to the editor's desk. Each month, the authors of the two top-rated articles receive bonuses based on your 
evaluation. First look at the list of this month's articles and corresponding article numbers |located in the unclassified ads section on the page preceding the 
Reader Service list), then rate each article you've read as Excellent, Good, Fair, or Poor, based on your overall impression of the article, by circling the ap- 
propriate number in each column below. Your feedback helps to produce the best possible magazine each month. 



L 



Article No. 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


14 


15 


16 


17 


18 


19 


20 


21 


22 


23 


24 


25 


Excellent 


801 


805 


809 


813 


817 


821 


825 


829 


833 


837 


841 


845 


849 


853 


857 


861 


865 


869 


873 


877 


881 


885 


889 


893 


897 


Good 


802 


806 


810 


814 


818 


822 


826 


830 


834 


838 


842 


846 


850 


854 


858 


862 


866 


870 


874 


878 


882 


886 


890 


894 


898 


Fair 


803 


807 


811 


815 


819 


823 


827 


831 


835 


839 


843 


847 


851 


855 


859 


863 


867 


871 


875 


879 


883 


887 


891 


895 


899 


Poor 


804 


808 


812 


816 


820 


824 


828 


832 


836 


840 


844 


848 


852 


856 


860 


864 


868 


872 


876 


880 


884 


888 


892 


896 


900 


rommpnrs 





EIW 



READER SERVICE 



m 



JULY 1983 
4173 



For fastest service transfer mailer label from wrapper to 
coupon provided at the right. Requests cannot be honored 
unless zip code is given. This card valid for 90 days only. 
NOTE— If label is missing or defaced fill out coupon 
carefully— PLEASE PRINT— this is the only way to get 
requested material to you. 



Name 

(Title) 

Address 
City 



. (Company) 



State 



Zip 



1 21 41 


61 


81 


101 


121 


141 


161 


181 


201 221 


2 22 42 


62 


82 


102 


122 


142 


162 


182 


202 222 


3 23 43 


63 


83 


103 


123 


143 


163 


183 


203 223 


4 24 44 


64 


84 


104 


124 


144 


164 


184 


204 224 


5 25 45 


65 


85 


105 


125 


145 


165 


185 


205 225 


6 26 46 


66 


86 


106 


126 


146 


166 


186 


206 226 


7 27 47 


67 


87 


107 


127 


147 


167 


187 


207 227 


8 28 48 


68 


88 


108 


128 


148 


168 


188 


208 228 


9 29 49 


69 


89 


109 


129 


149 


169 


189 


209 229 


10 30 50 


70 


90 


110 


130 


150 


170 


190 


210 230 


11 31 51 


71 


91 


111 


131 


151 


171 


191 


211 231 


12 32 52 


72 


92 


112 


132 


152 


172 


192 


212 232 


13 33 53 


73 


93 


113 


133 


153 


173 


193 


213 233 


14 34 54 


74 


94 


114 


134 


154 


174 


194 


214 234 


15 35 55 


75 


95 


115 


135 


155 


175 


195 


215 235 


16 36 56 


76 


96 


116 


136 


156 


176 


196 


216 236 


17 37 57 


77 


97 


117 


137 


157 


177 


197 


217 237 


18 36 58 


78 


98 


118 


138 


158 


178 


198 


218 238 


19 39 59 


79 


99 


119 


139 


159 


179 


199 


219 239 


20 40 60 


80 


100 


120 


140 


160 


180 


200 


220 240 



241 


261 


281 


242 


262 


282 


243 


263 


283 


244 


264 


284 


245 


265 


285 


246 


266 


286 


247 


267 


287 


248 


268 


288 


249 


269 


289 


250 


270 


290 


251 


271 


291 


252 


272 


292 


253 


273 


293 


254 


274 


294 


256 


275 


295 


256 


276 


296 


257 


277 


297 


258 


278 


298 


259 


279 


299 


260 


280 


300 



301 321 

302 322 

303 323 

304 324 

305 325 

306 326 

307 327 

308 328 

309 329 

310 330 

311 331 

312 332 

313 333 

314 334 

315 335 

316 336 

317 337 

318 338 

319 339 

320 340 



341 


361 


381 


342 


362 


382 


343 


363 


383 


344 


364 


384 


345 


365 


385 


346 


366 


386 


34 7 


367 


387 


348 


368 


388 


349 


369 


389 


350 


370 


390 


351 


371 


391 


352 


372 


392 


353 


373 


393 


354 


374 


394 


355 


375 


395 


356 


376 


396 


357 


377 


397 


358 


378 


398 


359 


379 


399 


360 


380 


400 



401 421 

402 422 

403 423 

404 424 

405 425 

406 426 

407 427 

408 428 

409 429 

410 430 

411 431 

412 432 

413 433 

414 434 

415 435 

416 436 

417 437 

418 438 

419 439 

420 440 



441 


461 


481 


442 


462 


482 


443 


463 


483 


444 


464 


484 


445 


465 


485 


446 


466 


486 


447 


467 


487 


448 


468 


488 


449 


469 


489 


450 


470 


490 


451 


471 


491 


452 


472 


492 


453 


473 


493 


454 


474 


494 


455 


475 


495 


456 


476 


496 


457 


477 


497 


458 


478 


498 


459 


479 


499 


460 


480 


500 



501 521 


541 


561 


581 


601 


621 


641 


661 681 


502 522 


542 


562 


582 


602 


622 


642 


662 682 


503 523 


543 


563 


583 


603 


623 


643 


663 683 


504 524 


544 


564 


584 


604 


624 


644 


664 684 


505 525 


545 


565 


585 


605 


625 


645 


665 685 


506 526 


546 


566 


586 


606 


626 


646 


666 686 


507 527 


547 


567 


587 


607 


627 


647 


667 687 


508 528 


548 


568 


588 


608 


628 


648 


668 688 


509 529 


549 


569 


589 


609 


629 


649 


669 689 


510 530 


550 


570 


590 


610 


630 


650 


670 690 


511 531 


551 


571 


591 


611 


631 


651 


671 691 


512 532 


552 


572 


592 


612 


632 


652 


672 692 


513 533 


553 


573 


593 


613 


633 


663 


673 693 


514 534 


554 


574 


594 


614 


634 


654 


674 694 


515 535 


555 


575 


595 


615 


635 


655 


675 695 


516 536 


556 


576 


596 


616 


636 


656 


676 696 


517 537 


557 


577 


597 


617 


637 


657 


677 697 


518 538 


558 


578 


598 


618 


638 


658 


678 698 


519 539 


559 


579 


599 


619 


639 


659 


679 699 


520 540 


560 


580 


600 


620 


640 


660 


680 700 



To get further information on the products advertised in BYTE, fill out the reader service card with your name and address. Then circle the ap- 
propriate numbers for the advertisers you select from the list. Add a 20-cent stamp to the card, then drop it in the mail. Not only do you gain infor- 
mation, but our advertisers are encouraged to use the marketplace provided by BYTE. This helps us bring you a bigger BYTE. The index is pro- 
vided as an additional service by the publisher, who assumes no liability for errors or omissions. 



PLACE 

STAMP 

HERE 



BITE 

READER SERVICE 
PO BOX 298 
DALTON, MA 01226 
USA 



PLACE 

STAMP 

HERE 



BOTE 



READER SERVICE 
PO BOX 298 
DALTON, MA 01226 
USA 



EITI 

SUBSCRIPTIONS 



m 



4173 



USA 


Canada 




Mexico 


D S21 


D S23 


D S38 


□ $42 


Q S55 


D S6I 



For a subscription to BYTE, please complete this card. 



Name . 



Address . 



City 



State . 



-Zip. 



. Country 



Card No. 



Expiration date . 



□ I year 

□ 2 years 

□ 3 years 



□ S 53 Europe (air delivery) payment enclosed 

□ 537 Elsewhere (surface mail) payment 
enclosed 

(Air mail rates available upon request) 

Plaasa ramlt In US funds drawn on a 
US bank. Thank you. 

□ Check enclosed (Bonus: [North America 
only] one EXTRA issue— receive 13 issues for 

the price of 1 2) 



Four digits above name — Master Charge only 

Signature Date 

Please allow eight weeks for processing. Thank you. 



□ 



D 



□ Bill me (North America only) 



EfTI 

SUBSCRIPTIONS 



m 



4173 



USA 


Canada 




Mexico 


D S2l 


□ S23 


□ S38 


D S42 


□ S55 


D S6I 



For a subscription to BYTE, please complete this card. 



Name . 



Address . 



City 



State . 



.Zip. 



. Country 



Card No. 



Expiration date . 



□ I year 
D 2 years 

□ 3 years 



□ S53 Europe (air delivery) payment enclosed 
D S37 Elsewhere (surface mail) payment 
enclosed 

(Air mail rates available upon request) 

Plaasa ramlt In US funds drawn on a 
US bank. Thank you. 

□ Check enclosed (Bonus: [North America 
only] one EXTRA issue— receive 13 issues for 

the price of 1 2) 



Four digits above name— Master Charge only 

Signature Date 

Please allow eight weeks for processing. Thank you. 



□ Bill me (North America only) 




Don't Miss An Issue! 

Have BYTE 
delivered to 
your door. 



Each month BYTE will bring you the 
latest in microcomputer technology. 

DISCOVER and IMPLEMENT new 
ideas. Don't miss the original informa- 
tion presented in the pages of BYTE. 



With BYTE you'll always be among 
the first to know about the important 
breakthroughs, worthwhile new 
equipment, and innovative projects in 
the world of computing. 

CHALLENGE US to deliver the very 
best ideas in microcomputers and ad- 
vanced technology to you. Return the 
attached card todayl 

Subscribe to BYTE— the world's 
leading computer magazine. 



PLACE 

STAMP 

HERE 



EITI 



SUBSCRIPTIONS 
PO Box 590 
Martinsville NJ 08836 
USA 



PLACE 

STAMP 

HERE 



EITE 



SUBSCRIPTIONS 
PO Box 590 
Martinsville NJ 08836 
USA 




///A 



A/AA 




BUY A BANANA. SAVE A BUNCH. 



Meet the Bananarthe very 
tough, versatile, portable, and 
reliable dot-matrix printer from 
Gorilla!" 

At $249.95 retail it's an ideal 
and inexpensive companion for 
personal computers like Apple* 
(or Apple"look alikes'such as 
Franklin® or Albert' 5 ), TIf 
CommodorefTRS-80f'Kayprcv 
Timex," Osborne,® etc. 

After that, it's merely com- 
parable to other printers that can 
cost up to three times as much: 
10" carriages (to handle standard 
9V2" paper), 80 columns, graphics 
capability, 10 characters per inch 
(expandable to 5 cpi) draft-quality 
print (for perfectly acceptable 
form letters, data processing, 

Circle 234 on inquiry card. 



business reports, etc.) tractor 
feed (for precise alignment and 
quick loading), parallel or serial 
interface (take your pick), self- 
inking ribbon cassette (for long 
life and easy installation), 10 
portable pounds in weight, and 
compatibility with so many of the 
most popular personal computers 
on the market. 

Plus its printhead features a 
unique single-hammer design that 
eliminates a lot of moving parts, to 
eliminate a lot of annoying repairs. 

That's the Banana: silly name, 
serious service. It's everything 
the expensive dot-matrix printers 
are . . . 

Except expensive. 




Leading Edge Products, Inc., 225 Turnpike Street, Canton, Massachusetts 02021 
Toll-free: 1-800-343-6833; In Massachusetts (617) 828-8150. Telex 951-624. 



j • ; - ■ 

- Radio Shack Presents 
The Micro Executive Workstation 



Powerful Built-in 
Software 
Retains Memory 
Data When "Off" 

Self-Contained 
Telephone Modem 
8K RAM- 
Expandable to 32K 



Only 



*j* 



Cat. No. 26-3801 




—as 



T 



■■•' r"-' 



■ 



Introducing the TRS-80 Model 100 Portable Computer 
— User-Friendly Software Makes it Truly Revolutionary 



Imagine a computer on your desk so small, it can fit in 
your in-basket. The second you turn it on, imagine seeing 
a menu of built-in executive management programs and 
your own files, ready for immediate use. All revealed on 
an eight-line by 40-character LCD display positioned just 
above a full-size keyboard. And when you leave the 
office, imagine a three-pound computer you can take 
along, because it works on AC or batteries. 

Stop imagining. The new TRS-80 Model 100 is the com- 
puter you've been waiting for. As a desk organizer, it's a 
phone directory, address book, appointment calendar 
and telephone auto-dialer. It's a personal word proces- 
sor, as well. There's even a built-in modem to access 
other computers by phone. 

Come see the most revolutionary computer since the 
TRS-80 Model I at over 6500 Radio Shack stores and 
participating dealers, including over 400 Radio Shack 
Computer Centers nationwide. 

Radio /haek 

The biggest name in little computers® 

A DIVISION OF TANDY CORPORATION 
Circle 346 on Inquiry card. 



Built-in 


Interactive Software 


WORD 
PROCESSING 




APPOINTMENT 
SCHEDULER 






1 


1 


" 


S 1 


1 








TERMINAL 
COMMUNICATIONS 


] 


'J'"' I "™T* 


ADDRESS 
BOOK 








1 




1 




1 


TELEPHONt 
DIALER 




APPLICATIONS 
SOFTWARE 




EXTENDED 
BASIC 













r* 



Send me a free Model 100 brochure today! 

Mail To: Radio Shack, Dept. 84-A-IO 
300 One Tandy Center, Fort Worth, Texas 76102 



L. 



Retail prices may vary at individual stores and dealers 

. - ,. ■ • v • . .-■.■ ■• . . : ■ ■ ... i 



